Thomas H. Kean appointed her to the New Jersey Board of Higher Education, where she served until 1988.
Returning to New Haven, Mrs. Cahn served as associate general counsel for the New Haven Redevelopment Agency and in the country's first neighborhood legal services program, the Dixwell offices of Community Progress Inc., financed by the Ford Foundation.
Before her dog-breeding career, Miss Ayers taught at the Ferry Hall School in Lake Forest, Ill., worked as a guidance counselor at Danbury (Conn.) High School and served as dean of girls at Montclair (N.J.) High School.
Ms. Moore had served as secretary for racial and social justice with the Board for Homeland Ministries of the United Church of Christ since 1988.
After internship and residency at New York Hospital she spent a year with the United States Public Health Service before joining the New York City Health Department, where she started as an instructor and served as director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene on her way to the department's top position.
She attended Vassar College and served on the board of the Women's City Club.
She divorced the Archduke, who had served in the German Air Force during World War II, in 1954 and supported herself and her children by giving lectures on such topics as her life, Romania and world peace.
Valued Parsons Training
        So greatly did she value the school's training that she served on its board and for 40 years hired only Parsons graduates.
Mrs. Auchincloss, a past president of the New York Parks Council and of the Park Association, was appointed deputy administrator of parks in 1974 by Mayor Abraham D. Beame and served for one year, until the post fell victim to the city's fiscal crisis.
In 1933 she served on a committee organized by the American Statistical Association to advise Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins on setting up the Bureau of Labor Statistics program.
After retirement Mrs. Wickens served on the advisory board of the United States Export-Import Bank.
In World War II she served in the Office of Foreign Relief and Rehabilitation and helped form its United Nations counterpart, the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, for which she went to Europe in 1945 to arrange press relations at camps for displaced people.
In 1966, at the age of 75, she was elected to the Borough Council of New Hope and served until 1969.
With her friend Dorothy Fay Little, she founded the Greenwood Music Camp, a summer camp for children in Cummington, Mass., and served as a director there for 50 years.
Mrs. Brown, a lawyer, served as an I.C.C.
After receiving her law degree in 1947, she served as law clerk to Ira J. Partlow, then the West Virginia Attorney General.
A registered nurse, she served until 1944 as a visiting nurse at Emmanuel Lutheran Church in Manhattan, working with immigrants.
During her 38 years with the financial services firm, Mrs. Poggi had been assistant director and manager of the public relations and advertising departments and served as editor of the corporation's magazine, Dun's Bulletin.
During her 38 years with the financial services firm, Mrs. Poggi had been assistant director and manager of the public relations and advertising departments and served as editor of the corporation's magazine, Dun's Bulletin.
She served as vice president of the Woman Lawyers Association, the Business Women's League and the Commercial Law League of America.
She was a delegate to the 1932 Republican National Convention, and in the 1930's served on the executive board of the American Jewish Congress.
She served with the organization from 1973 and was its treasurer at her death.
She also served as counsel to the Child Welfare League of America; executive director of the Committee on Legal Abortion; a research assistant with the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York City, and a member of the board of the Scholarship, Education and Defense Fund for Racial Equality.
She was a 1954 graduate of Yale Law School and had served with the Commission on Law and Social Action of the American Jewish Congress.
After his death in 1965 she served as president of the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, which supports scientific education and research.
She also served as a patron of the Philharmonic Society of New York and as vice chairman of the Lewisohn Stadium Concerts.
She also served on the visiting committee of the Harvard Divinity School and was a trustee of the Clinton Library.
She was a founding member and first secretary of the National Book Critics Circle and she had served on the Pulitzer Prize committees for non-fiction and poetry.
In World War II, she served with the Office of Strategic Services.
She later served as director of services for Cerebral Palsy of Queens.
Mrs. Shatz also served as vice president and director of the Mahopac Hospital, now known as the Putnam Hospital Center in Carmel, and was active in the Red Cross.
After moving to Florida, she served as treasurer of the Palm Society, an international organization of horticulturists.
Served on Rights Panel
        In the 1960's, she was a member of the Kennedy and Johnson Commissions on the Status of Women, serving on the committee on political and civil rights.
From 1943 to 1946, she served in the Navy as a lieutenant.
She served as president of the Victorian Studies Association and of the Victorian executive committee of the Modern Language Association.

        Marion Vannett Ridgway, who served as an agent for artists and writers for more than 40 years, died on Saturday at her home in Southbury, Conn. She was 88 years old.
She was named superintendent in 1950 and served until she retired in 1987 at the age of 91.
She served on the party Politburo, was in charge of literature and the arts and promoted "revolutionary operas" and other works intended to foster a suitable ideological outlook.
She attended Bryn Mawr and during World War I served as a nurse's aide at a military hospital on Ellis Island.
Earlier she had served with the New York City Bureau of Child Guidance and had maintained a private practice here.
She was also the founder of the Huntington Youth Bureau and served as chairwoman of the Suffolk County Youth Board.
Before her death, Sister Cavanagh was director of pastoral care at San Jose Hospital in San Jose, Calif.
        She served as an administrator at Manhattanville from 1953 to 1968.
Was Her Mother's Assistant
        After an automobile accident in 1936 that reduced her performing abilities, she served as her mother's rehearsal assistant, and from 1941 to 1950 taught in the school her mother had founded in Hollywood.
She served for a quarter century as chairman for the Boston area of the greeting-card fund-raising campaign for Unicef.
She served for a quarter-century as chairman for the Boston area of the greeting-card fund-raising campaign for Unicef.
At Pace, she also served on the university Senate, moderated the English Honor Society and for many years was supervisor of student teaching.
While there, she served as a consultant to the Women's Job Corps, the National Advisory Research Council of the Institute of Dental Research and the Children's Hearing and Speech Center, an affiliate of Children's Hospital.
Mrs. Tree was appointed a representative to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in 1961 and served also as a special adviser to the United States delegation.
After John F. Kennedy was elected President, he appointed Mrs. Tree to the United Nations job, where she served when Mr. Stevenson was the top United States representative there.
Led Actors' Equity
        Ms. Dewhurst also served two terms as president of Actors' Equity Association, the 39,000-member union of professional actors and stage managers, holding office from June 1985 until last May.
"  Led Actors' Equity
        Ms. Dewhurst also served two terms as president of the Actors' Equity Association, the 39,000-member union of professional actors and stage managers, holding office from June 1985 until May of this year.
Ms. Lefcourt served as the general counsel for the Governor's Office, the New York State Division for Women from 1984 to 1989.
She also served as assistant dean of women at the university before beginning a new career in 1940 as the principal aide to Senator Pat McCarran, Republican of Nevada, in Washington.
She continued as administrative assistant to Mr. McCarran until he died in 1954, then served under his interim successor and under Senator Alan Bible, a Democrat elected as Mr. McCarran's permanent replacement.
President Carter appointed Mrs. Schapiro to the Tax Court Nominating Commission in 1978, and she served as a member of the panel until 1981.
She was a past chairwoman of the state bar's tax section, as well as of its finance committee, and served on the executive committee of the state bar's House of Delegates.
Mr. Reed, who served three terms in the United States Senate, from 1911 to 1929, died in 1944.
Mr. Reed, who served three terms in the Senate, from 1911 to 1929, died in 1944.
Long a prominent figure in the Berkshire Conference of Women Historians, Mrs. Prelinger served as its president from 1975 to 1977 and last year was a member of its nominating committee.
Mrs. Dryfoos served as a member, officer and board member on many artistic and charitable organizations.
In 1974, when President Gerald R. Ford named Rockefeller as Vice President, she served as his chief of staff.
She served in the Marshall Plan and at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris,
        A native of Minneapolis, Miss Painter graduated from Swarthmore College in 1942 with high honors and went directly to the Board of Economic Warfare and then to the Office of Strategic Services.
After the war, she served at the Federal Reserve Board in Washington and at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
She served only one term.
She was 79 years old and lived in Haddonfield, N.J.
        Mr. Cahill, a Republican who had served in the House of Representatives, was Governor for four years, starting in January 1970.
In 1973 she established Women's Health Services in Pittsburgh and served as its executive director for 11 years.
"
        While at Madeira, Miss Maynard served six years on the executive committee of the National Council of Independent Schools and was its chairwoman for three years.
She served 10 years as treasurer of the Fairfax, Va., chapter of the American Red Cross.
Through much of her career, she served as liaison between editorial and advertising deparments and helped shape the direction of the magazines for which she worked.

        Lydia Ulana Savoyka, a Ukrainian-born social worker, who served 35 years as director of immigration counseling services for the United States Catholic Conference, died on Dec. 20 at St. Vincent's Hospital.
During World War II she served in a number of executive positions with the Brooklyn chapter of the Motor Transport Service of the American Women's Voluntary Services, the organization that aided the armed forces and local military bases.
She served as vice president and later president.
Most notably they served as a model for the work of Walker Evans, who first saw them in New York shortly after Miss Abbott's return from Paris.
In World War II she served as an Army psychologist and then worked at several institutions in New York, Buffalo and Niagara Falls, N.Y. She retired as an educational psychologist at City College in 1980.
