Mrs. Meyer served on several corporate boards, including Anchor Hocking and Horizons International Foods.
She also served on citywide, state and national committees promoting libraries, including the American Library Trust Association and the 1979 White House Conference on Libraries.
But even with young children, Mrs. Bunting-Smith was a 4-H leader, served on the library and school boards and was one of the organizers and directors of the Public Health Nursing Association.
She worked with the Neighborhood Children's Center for more than two decades, was a member of the New York City Human Rights Commission, served on the Hospitality Committee of the United Nations in the 1960's, and became a board member of the Vivian Beaumont Theater, a board member of Lincoln Center in the 1980's and a trustee of Carnegie Hall.
W. Averell Harriman named her to the  State Board of Mediation in 1955, and she served on it for 11 years, helping settle thorny disputes like a wholesale butchers' strike in 1961.
Mrs. Haje, who also served as a bridge between Arab-American organizations, eventually worked so closely with so many of them, including the Arab-American Discrimination Committee and the Arab-American University Graduates Association, that Dr. Clovis Maksud, the Lebanese-born former head of the Arab League, called her the ''mother'' of most of the Arab-American organizations in the United States.
She served in the Marine Corps Women's Reserve in World War II.
''She was packaged like the quintessential elderly lady that a Boy Scout would help across the street, except that she drank martinis, smoked cigarettes and could, on occasion, have a mouth like a sailor,'' said George White, chairman and founder of the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center, where Miss Oliver served as a dramaturge for 20 seasons at its National Playwrights Conference in Waterford, Conn. ''She could be tough and would brook no banality, but she truly loved playwrights and loved the theater.
Dr. Howell was appointed associate dean for student affairs in 1972, becoming the highest-ranking woman at the medical school at the time, and served until 1975.
Mrs. Burnham, a large, imposing woman who had run her own real estate business and served as her husband's clerk during his nine years as town justice, was not intimidated.
Her father was the first minister from Hungary to the United States and later served at the Court of St. James.
An international tax specialist, she served for 13 years as the managing partner of the firm's international tax services practice in New York before her retirement in 1993.

        Bernice F. Davidson, a historian of Italian Renaissance art who served as research curator at the Frick Collection for more than four decades, died at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx on Feb. 24.
She served on the city's Magistrates Court and Civil Court and she retired from the State Supreme Court in 1983 at 76.
She joined 9 other women in 1934 to found what is now the 2,000-member Women's Bar Association of the State of New York, and served as its president.
She served until 1958, when Mayor Robert F. Wagner appointed her city treasurer.
She died of complications following heart surgery, said Harold Holzer, who was her spokesman when she served in Congress.
''She was one of the most exciting, enlightened legislators that ever served in the Congress,'' said Representative Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan, with whom Ms. Abzug sometimes collaborated and sometimes sparred.
She was briefly chairman of the Labor Party in 1977-78 and served as a junior minister in several Labor Governments in the early 1970's, but was perhaps too uncompromising in her beliefs to rise to a higher office.
She then served as provincial superior and, after her term expired, became Professor Egan at Empire State College-State University of New York in 1972.
She worked with its artistic director, Sally Bliss, as an associate director and eventually served as full director for two years until the troupe was reorganized in 1985.
She served on the board of the National Association for Regional Ballet, a group now known as Regional Dance America.
In 1955 she joined the Westminster Choir College in Princeton as head of its piano department and served as adjunct professor of piano pedagogy from 1981 to 1994.
      
Until her death Ms. Skelly served as vice chairwoman of the new firm, DYG Inc., based in Danbury, Conn. (Saatchi & Saatchi sold the former Yankelovich, Skelly & White, now Yankelovich Partners, in 1992.
Over the years Ms. Skelly served on numerous boards, including the National Council of Christians and Jews, Gov.
She was also known for her ''little'' dinners, generally served on small plates on children's furniture, but once, for a visiting niece who really wasn't very hungry, she served up breakfast on doll house china.
She was also known for her ''little'' dinners, generally served on small plates on children's furniture, but once, for a visiting niece who really wasn't very hungry, she served up breakfast on doll house china.
In 1994, the textile offshoot became a separate, independent nonprofit organization, and Ms. Wolsky served as its president and director.
During World War I, she served with the American Red Cross in France, Belgium, Italy and in the Balkans.
She served on the editorial board of the University of Miami Press and for a time wrote book reviews.
She was later recognized nationwide as an authority on lobbying and served as an adviser to Senator John F. Kennedy and other legislators who were revising the Federal Lobbying Registration Act.
She even occasionally served as a radio sports commentator in Cincinnati, discussing baseball games in a refined British accent.
After attending the University of Georgia she married Ben Scott Whaley, who became a prominent Charleston lawyer, served a term in the state legislature, was United States Attorney for Charleston in the Truman Administration and played a crucial role in creating his wife's garden.
Like ''The Joy of Cooking'' in the United States, ''I Know How to Cook'' and other Mathiot books served as primers for novice cooks, leading readers from the basics of food preparation through simple recipes to more elaborate concoctions.
Ms. Ross served on the Mount Holyoke College board of trustees from 1986 to 1991, and on the advisory board of the college's art museum from 1975 on.
The Lipmans donated many works of art to the Museum of American Folk Art, where she was a trustee from 1965 to 1978 and then a trustee emeritus, and to the Whitney Museum of American Art, where Mr. Lipman was long a trustee, until his death in 1992, and had served as chairman.
As director of instruction, Ms. Peterka supervised students enrolled in the school's two-year professional training program and served as artistic director of the Academy Company.
She had served on the board of directors for a number of years and as association president from 1967 to 1970.
She was named to the New Jersey State Advisory Council on Alcohol Problems in 1975, and in the 1980's she served on the advisory board of the United States Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration.
Miss Caccialanza became his protegee and he served as her godfather at her confirmation.
She was active in the teacher center movement nationally, and her center in New Haven served as a model for others.
During a career in which she served on more than 70 national boards and committees, Sister Irene became accustomed to being the only woman in the room.
Dr. Harrison also served on the National Science Board in the 1970's.
Earlier in her career she served as a special epidemiologist on the World Health Organization's smallpox program in Uttar Pradesh, India.
After Humphrey served as Vice President under Lyndon Baines Johnson, he lost to Richard M. Nixon in 1968 when Johnson decided against seeking re-election.
And she also served as co-chair of the President's Council on Physical Fitness.
After Humphrey served as Vice President under Lyndon B. Johnson, he lost to Richard M. Nixon in 1968 when Johnson decided against seeking re-election while the war in Vietnam raged.
Among other things, she established the journal Children's Literature, helped to create the children's literature division of the Modern Language Association and served as a founding director of the Children's Literature Association in 1972.
She was active in the American Federation of Art, where she served as traveling exhibitions chairwoman, started a newsletter and sponsored a book on films about art.
When she was not designing or plotting acquisitions, Ms. Ferragamo served on the board of the Italian Environmental Fund, which protects historic Italian houses.
''
        For the last several years, she served on the board of the American Judicature Society, a public interest group that strives to increase public understanding of legal issues.
She only occasionally swept around the piles of turtle shells, snowshoes, wildlife gear, books and files, all of which served as evidence of what it was that pleased her.
      
Dr. Calderone served for some years as a school physician in Great Neck, L.I.
Dr. Calderone also contributed to many professional publications and served as editor of texts on abortion and family planning.
From 1977 to 1982, she served as a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, and was appointed chairwoman of the regional bank in 1982.
At the same time, she served as personal manager to performing artists like Leopold Stokowski, Mary Martin, Jose Iturbi, Andre Kostalanetz, Nathan Milstein and Lily Pons.
In her 40's when she married Harold G. Henderson, a Columbia professor of Japanese art who had served on General MacArthur's staff and composed Emperor Hirohito's renunciation of divinity, Miss Benjamin soon drew her husband into her scholarly detective work.
She served as its director for 11 years, and the center was later renamed in her honor.
In the early days of television, she was also seen frequently on Jack Paar's ''Tonight'' show, and occasionally served as a substitute host on 'Strike It Rich'' and ''The Big Payoff.
Earlier, in the Depression, she pursued her interest in public health at the Works Progress Administration and after the war started, she served with the Federal Works Agency, playing an important role in setting up nursery schools and child care centers in 15 Northeastern states to accommodate young mothers working in defense plants.
In 1939, she served as director of the City Health Center in Astoria, Queens, and promoted the idea that New York City should keep close tabs on the health of its children through records that would follow them when they moved to new schools.
In the 1960's, she was vice chairman of the Commission to Study the Arts in New Jersey, which led to the creation of the New Jersey State Council on the Arts, on which she served until 1975.
She also served on a British-American crisis team that worked to enhance relations between British civilians and American military personnel stationed in Britain.
She became a Mount Holyoke trustee for 21 years and also served on the boards of National Public Radio and the Henry Street Settlement in  Greenwich Village.
