She was a lieder and opera singer in Germany for a few years before she married Dr. Schaeffer, who was also born in Germany, not long after World War I ended.
Before long, she volunteered to help organize fan clubs for the singer, personally visiting his barber to retrieve locks of the star's hair to send to bobbysoxers around the country.

        Mirra Ginsberg, a noted translator of works by Dostoyevsky, Mikhail Bulgakov and Isaac Bashevis Singer, died on Dec. 26 on Long Island.
She translated some of the early works of Singer.
Correction:  February 13, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary last Tuesday about a translator of works by Dostoyevsky, Mikhail Bulgakov and Isaac Ba shevis Singer misspelled her surname.
She is survived by a daughter, the actress and singer Melissa Converse, and a son, Don Porter Jr., both of Los Angeles; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      

        Maude Russell Rutherford, a singer and dancer in the glory days of black theater in the 1920's who always said she was the one who really introduced the Charleston on Broadway, died on March 8 at her home in Atlantic City.
Early in her career a producer tried to mold her as a blues singer, but, as Ms. Rutherford told Mr. Baker in a taped interview, it did not fit.

        Portia Nelson, a cabaret singer, songwriter, actress and author who was one of the most beloved New York nightclub performers of the 1950's, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
As a singer she injected even the most wistful song with an indefatigable verve and optimism.

        Ann Sothern, a deft comedian and talented singer who was known as the Queen of the B's at Columbia and RKO, where she made 18 movies between 1934 and 1936, died on Thursday at her home in Ketchum, Idaho.
Ann Sothern was born Harriette Lake on Jan. 22, 1909, in Valley City, N.D., where her mother, a concert singer, was on tour.
She began her theatrical career in the 1945 production of ''Blue Holiday'' at the Belasco Theater alongside Ethel Waters and Josh White, the folk singer.
She was a dynamic singer with a wide range, scatting and using a rich, low register.

        Susannah McCorkle, the sultry voiced pop-jazz singer who brought a rare literary refinement to popular standards, was found dead outside her apartment at 41 West 86th Street early yesterday morning.
In her apartment, the singer had left a will, along with detailed instructions about disposition of her estate.
With a repertory of more than 3,000 songs and with 17 albums to her credit, Ms. McCorkle was more than a nightclub singer.
''
        ''That one record completely revised my thinking and made me want to become a professional singer,'' she recalled years later.
''As a singer, I began meeting other people who were solitary and introverted but who were also great jazz musicians.

        Susannah McCorkle, the sultry voiced pop-jazz singer who brought a rare literary refinement to popular standards, was found dead outside her apartment at 41 West 86th Street early Saturday.
In her apartment, the singer had left a will, along with detailed instructions about disposition of her estate.
With a repertory of more than 3,000 songs and with 17 albums to her credit, Ms. McCorkle was more than a nightclub singer.
''
        ''That one record completely revised my thinking and made me want to become a professional singer,'' she recalled years later.
''As a singer, I began meeting other people who were solitary and introverted but who were also great jazz musicians.
Correction:  May 22, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday and in some copies on Sunday about Susannah McCorkle, the pop-jazz singer, misstated the release date of her last album, ''Hearts and Minds.
Soon after, she rebelled against her family by moving to Detroit, where she intended to work as a jazz singer and later met  Ellington by forging an introductory note to him from a jazz critic.
She could turn a Wagner aria into a nightmare of brow-knitted concentration, quavering glissandos and narrow escapes from tonal disaster -- just the reverse of a young singer approaching a difficult passage, the mezzo-soprano Risë Stevens once said.
''You're always deathly afraid the young singer will never make the last note,'' she said.
'' Mark Singer wrote in ''The Wire'' in 1997.
In plays like William Inge's ''Picnic,'' Horton Foote's ''Traveling Lady'' and, especially, Inge's ''Bus Stop,'' Ms. Stanley captivated Broadway audiences and dazzled the critics in roles that ranged from a gauche young tomboy to a gallant abandoned wife to a well-traveled wisecracking nightclub singer.
In the 1955 ''Bus Stop,'' she played Cherie, a worn-at-the-edges nightclub singer -- she calls herself a chanteuse -- who finds herself sitting out a snowstorm in a Kansas diner with her fellow bus passengers, one of whom is a swaggering cowboy.

        Aaliyah, a multimillion-selling, precociously sultry rhythm-and-blues singer and actress, died on Saturday in the crash of a small airplane, The Associated Press reported.
She started her show business career as a big band singer.
''
        She was billed as a singer on the program, but seldom sang.

        Etta Jones, a great and permanently underrated jazz singer who for three decades toured constantly with her musical partner, the saxophonist Houston Person, died on Tuesday at her home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. She was 72.
She used silence, the sound of the breath, a quick yodel here and there, lyric readings that drew out or shut down syllables idiosyncratically, and a sliding pitch that made her an extraordinary blues singer.
Ms. Jones always cited as an influence Thelma Carpenter, a onetime Count Basie vocalist who became a heavy-vibrato torch singer.
'' They were always billed equally, an unusual arrangement for any jazz singer.
She wrote in its magazine about a little-known designer named Marjan Pejoski, whose feathered-swan dress for the singer Bjork had caused a stir at the Academy Awards.
''This is a singer with temperament, an abundance of animal spirits and brains to boot,'' Harold C. Schonberg wrote in The New York Times in February 1957, during her debut season with the Metropolitan Opera.
Miss Mödl, who was born in Nuremberg on March 12, 1912, had a relatively late start as a professional singer.
