
        Fraydele Oysher, a star of the Yiddish theater and a member of a musical dynasty, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan, said her daughter, the singer and comedian Marilyn Michaels.
Ms. Oysher's brother, Moishe, was a major star in Yiddish theater and films and a cantor known as ''the master singer of his people.
When Uta was 7, the family moved to Madison, Wis., where her father was head of the department of art history at the University of Wisconsin (her mother was an opera singer).
She had married Art Jarrett, a bandleader, singer and fellow graduate of Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn, in September 1933.

        Doris Troy, the big-voiced soul singer of the 1963 hit ''Just One Look,'' whose life story was the inspiration for the long-running musical ''Mama, I Want to Sing,'' died on Monday in a hospital in Las Vegas.
After singing in the choir of her father's church in Harlem, she began working as a backup singer for Solomon Burke, the Drifters, Chuck Jackson and others.
She became a much sought after backup singer for rock bands: her voice is on the Rolling Stones' 1969 song ''You Can't Always Get What You Want'' and Pink Floyd's 1973 album ''Dark Side of the Moon,'' among many other recordings.

        Ella Johnson, a jazz singer who performed with her brother Buddy Johnson in his dance bands in the 1940's and 50's, died in New York on Feb. 16, her nephew James Johnson Jr. said.
A smooth singer with a seductive delivery, Ms. Johnson was often compared to Billie Holiday and Ella Fitzgerald.

        Odessa Edwards, a Southern gospel singer known for her passionate and topical sermonizing with the Original Gospel Harmonettes, died on Feb. 22 in Birmingham, Ala., where she lived.
Ms. Edwards was the clear-voiced contralto of the Original Gospel Harmonettes, which featured the dynamic lead singer Dorothy Love Coates.
They changed their name to the Original Gospel Harmonettes in the late 40's, and Ms. Coates joined in 1950 as the lead singer.
Correction:  March 18, 2004, Thursday  An obituary of the singer Geneviève yesterday misspelled a surviving stepdaughter's surname.
In April 1927 she appeared in a movie with sound six months before ''The Jazz Singer,'' starring Al Jolson, was released.

        Timi Yuro, the pop singer whose throaty and soulful delivery made ''Hurt'' and other songs hits in the early 1960's, died on March 30 at her home in Las Vegas.

        Virginia Capers, an actress and singer who won a Tony Award in 1974 for her role in ''Raisin,'' the musical version of ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' died on Thursday in Los Angeles.
''
        Ms. Fassie, who was named for the American singer Brenda Lee, grew up in a two-bedroom house in Langa, a black township outside Cape Town.
Trained as a classical singer, Ms. Manning had a fleeting but stellar career as a leading lady.
As a singer and an accordionist, Ms. Cunningham had played with Mr. Seeger and Mr. Guthrie in the Almanac Singers during the 1940's.

        Elizabeth Shub, a distinguished editor and translator of children's books from German and Yiddish, especially those of Isaac Bashevis Singer, whom she knew from her childhood and encouraged to write for children, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
In the 1960's, when she was an established editor, she suggested to Singer that he consider writing for children.
It became a center of the Upper West Side's intellectual life, home over the years to figures like the Nobel Prize-winning author Isaac Bashevis Singer, the Actors Studio founder Lee Strasberg and the actor Zero Mostel.
She declined to supply names, giving the punning reply, ''I am a dancer, not a singer.

        Laura Branigan, a singer whose high-volume vocals in the disco-style song ''Gloria'' propelled her into pop stardom, died in her sleep Thursday night at her home in East Quogue, N.Y. She was 47.
After touring as a backup singer with Leonard Cohen, Ms. Branigan released her first album, ''Branigan,'' in 1982.
They were soon recruited to sing backup for Sylvester, a cross-dressing disco singer with a local following.
At her best, in roles like Puccini's Mimi and Tosca and Verdi's Desdemona and Alice Ford, Miss Tebaldi was a singer of overwhelming expressivity and matchless vocal allure; arguably, hers was the most sumptuously beautiful lirico-spinto soprano voice (one combining lighter lyrical and weightier dramatic qualities) to emerge from Italy in the 20th century.
Still, she began early and had as active and successful a first 15 years as any singer of the 20th century.
Her father, Teobaldo Tebaldi, was a wounded soldier from the First World War when he met and married Giuseppina Barbieri, a gifted singer who had wanted a musical career but became a nurse.
By the time of her much-anticipated Met debut in January 1955, as Desdemona, Miss Tebaldi was already a celebrated singer.
'' But she added, ''How could I have been a wife, a mother and a singer?
''A confluence of everything coming together and a lot of luck,'' she told Barry Singer for a profile in The New York Times.
