In the golden age of big bands she was a singer of renown with Benny Goodman's orchestra and she went on to become a top nightclub singer, a prolific recording artist, a successful songwriter and an actress skillful enough to be nominated for an Oscar.
In the golden age of big bands she was a singer of renown with Benny Goodman's orchestra and she went on to become a top nightclub singer, a prolific recording artist, a successful songwriter and an actress skillful enough to be nominated for an Oscar.
There was never any doubt in her mind that she would become a singer.
She found work singing for a radio station in Fargo, then as a singer in Minneapolis with Will Osborne's band.
Music,'' and went on, in 1953, to play a featured role opposite Danny Thomas in a remake of ''The Jazz Singer.
'' Her performance as an alcoholic blues singer in ''Pete Kelly's Blues'' (1955) won her an Academy Award nomination as best supporting actress.
'' She had had a bit of voice-  coaching as a teenager, but never considered herself a singer.
When she was 9, Count Basie's orchestra came through town, and held a contest to find a young female singer to perform with them.
Her work in popular music, radio and television also tainted her in the eyes of many impresarios, though today a singer with such media appeal would be prized by any opera company.
In his book ''The American Opera Singer,'' the critic Peter G. Davis recounts a story of Ms. Farrell's first performances with the powerhouse tenor Franco Corelli in ''La Forza del Destino'' in Philadelphia.
Once she said, ''Nobody could stop a dancer dancing, a singer singing or an actor acting.
Ms. Félix made films in Mexico, Spain, Italy, France and Argentina, portraying figures like a belly dancer, a brothel keeper, a teacher, a soldier, a cabaret singer and a man-eating Roman empress.

        Dorothy Love Coates, a gospel singer whose gruff delivery and blazing theatrics made her one of the giants of the genre, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Birmingham, Ala., where she lived most of her life.

        Dolores Gray, a singer and actress whose success on Broadway and London's West End led to starring roles in several 1950's Hollywood musical extravaganzas, died on Wednesday in her Manhattan apartment.
They also had homes in New York City and Singer Island, Fla.
        After attending the initial Belleayre concert 11 years ago, she and her husband volunteered to be the artistic directors and expand the presentation into an annual summer series.
A graduate of the High School of Music and Art, she performed as a singer in the Catskills, in theater and at clubs and concerts.

        Eleanor Searle Whitney McCollum, a singer and a philanthropist in the fields of medicine, music and religion, died Aug. 12 at her home in Houston.
An Ohio doctor's daughter, Mrs. McCollum was a concert and opera singer for a short time after graduating from Florida Southern College.
Over the years, she performed as a singer for the Billy Graham Ministries and with the United States Air Force Band, and she spoke and sang at religious gatherings.

        Jenny Bell Bechtel Whyte, a fashion designer whose creations included dresses made from African printed textiles and clothing made from antique fabrics from three other continents, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Singer Division, a hospital in Manhattan.

        Lolita Torres, a leading actress and singer from Argentina who became an international symbol of that nation's golden age of moviemaking in the 1950's, died on Saturday in Buenos Aires.
''The Age of Love,'' about the frustrated loves of a famous singer and a millionaire, directed by Julio Saraceni in 1954, was perhaps her biggest movie hit abroad.

        Hadda Brooks, the smoky-voiced torch singer and pianist who was known in the 1940's as the Queen of the Boogie and came out of retirement in the late 1980's to gain new popularity with younger audiences, died on Thursday at 86.
In the late 1940's and 50's she scored a number or hits as a torch singer, including ''That's My Desire,'' ''Trust in Me'' and ''Dream.
''
        Correction:  November 26, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary of the singer and pianist Hadda Brooks in some copies on Sunday misidentified the film in which she sang to Humphrey Bogart.
