Among the performers Miss Singleton, herself an opera singer, introduced to the network were Eileen Farrell, the soprano, and Perry Como.

        Jane Pickens Hoving, a popular singer on Broadway, radio and television for 20 years and later an organizer in numerous philanthropies and society events, died on Friday at her home in Newport, R.I.
        She was 83 years old and also had a home in Manhattan.

        Jane Pickens Hoving, a popular singer on Broadway, radio and television for 20 years and later an organizer in numerous philanthropies and society events, died on Friday at her home in Newport, R.I.
        She was 83 years old and also had a home in Manhattan.
Surviving are her husband, David J. Hopwood; a daughter, Kari E. Kaplan of Manhattan; a son, Kenneth N. Kaplan of Queens; her mother, Claire Nossiter of Manhattan; a brother, Robert Singer of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and three stepchildren.
      
"  Genesis of a Comedian
        She was introduced as Miss Walker -- Mr. Abbott and Richard Rodgers had been expecting a singer named Helen Walker -- and began belting out a song called "Bounce Me Brother With a Solid Four.
"  Genesis of a Comedian
        She was introduced as Miss Walker -- Mr. Abbott and Richard Rodgers had been expecting a singer named Helen Walker -- and began belting out a song called "Bounce Me Brother With a Solid Four.

        La Lupe, a singer who was known during the late 1960's as the Queen of Latin Soul, died on Feb. 28 at Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx.
She married a singer in the trio Los Tropicuba; after her first performance, he said he thought she was having an epileptic fit.
In the 1930's she was commissioned to do busts of Anna Roosevelt, the daughter of Eleanor and Franklin D. Roosevelt; Lily Pons, the opera singer, and Rubin Goldmark, a composer who taught in the 1930's at the Juilliard School.

        Molly Picon, the comedic actress and singer who lightened and brightened the often dolorous themes of Yiddish theater with shows that were sprightly operettas, died yesterday in Lancaster, Pa. She was 94 years old.
Correction:  April 8, 1992, Wednesday
        An obituary yesterday about the actress and singer Molly Picon misstated the publication date of her autobiography, "Molly!

        Marlene Dietrich, the magnetic movie star and singer who was an international symbol of glamour and sex for more than half a century, died yesterday at her home in Paris.
The Dietrich image, personified by Lola-Lola, the seductive cabaret singer in top hat and silk stockings whom she portrayed in "The Blue Angel," was that of a liberated woman of the world who chose her men, earned her own living and viewed sex as a challenge.
The Dietrich-von Sternberg collaboration produced "Morocco" (1930), in which Miss Dietrich, again a cabaret singer, spurns and then pursues a French legionnaire (Gary Cooper) in the Sahara; "Dishonored" (1931), about a spy who betrays her country for love of a worthless man (Victor McLaglen), and "Shanghai Express" (1932), a melodrama in which she is a China Coast prostitute who offers herself to a warlord (Warner Oland) to save the life of a former lover (Clive Brook).
Her most noteworthy movie roles after the war were as an exotic gypsy in Mitchell Leisen's "Golden Earrings" (1947), with Ray Milland; a manipulative Berlin cabaret singer in Billy Wilder's "Foreign Affair" (1948); a saloon manager hiding outlaws in Fritz Lang's "Rancho Notorious" (1952); a duplicitous wife in Mr. Wilder's "Witness for the Prosecution" (1958); a cynical brothel-keeper in Orson Welles's "Touch of Evil" (1958) and an aristocratic widow in Stanley Kramer's "Judgment at Nuremberg" (1961).
Moments after she had finished singing a program of songs associated with her longtime friend Frank Sinatra, the 74-year-old singer and actress collapsed and was taken to St. Clare's Hospital, where she was pronounced dead on arrival.
"
        With her deep, grainy contralto, I've-been-through-it-all air of sophistication, and sinuous phrasing that echoed her idol, Billie Holiday, Miss Syms was a quintessential saloon singer, a term she said she preferred to cabaret singer.
"
        With her deep, grainy contralto, I've-been-through-it-all air of sophistication, and sinuous phrasing that echoed her idol, Billie Holiday, Miss Syms was a quintessential saloon singer, a term she said she preferred to cabaret singer.
Not long after they met in the 1940's, Mr. Sinatra gave the plump, moon-faced singer the nickname "Buddha.
Miss Syms took credit for giving Billie Holiday her trademark gardenia as camouflage after the legendary jazz singer had burned her hair with a curling iron.

        Joan Merrill, a nightclub singer and actress, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Miss Merrill was a featured actress and singer in several movies, among them "Time Out for Rhythm" (1941) and "Iceland" (1942), in which she introduced the song "There Will Never Be Another You," which became a pop standard.

        Geraldine Delaney Harris, a dancer and singer who appeared in several Broadway musicals in the 1950's, died on Friday at her home in Pomona, N.Y. She was 67 years old.

        Georgia Brown, a gravelly voiced singer and an earthy actress who originated the role of Nancy in the musical "Oliver!," died yesterday in London.

        Jean T. Chorley, a former professional singer and a civic leader, died on Saturday at her home in Skillman, N.J. She was 88 years old.
She also worked as a translator for Isaac Bashevis Singer and wrote for The New Yorker, Mademoiselle and Redbook.
She also worked as a translator for Isaac Bashevis Singer and wrote for The New Yorker, Mademoiselle and Redbook.
At the height of her career, in the 1950's and 60's, Miss Kirsten appealed not only to opera fans, who knew her as an attractive, intelligent, thoroughly musical singer and a fine actress, but also to a broader public that knew her from her frequent radio and television appearances or from her performances in the films "The Great Caruso," with Mario Lanza, and "Mr. Music," with Bing Crosby.
She was drawn to music and acting early in life, but did not set her sights on an operatic career until she had achieved some modest success as a popular singer.
After leaving high school when she was 16 years old, Miss Kirsten worked as a demonstrator of Singer sewing machines and as what she called a trouble-shooter at New Jersey Telephone, while studying voice in New York City at night.
