
        Teresa Teng, a singer from Taiwan whose love songs won her spectacular fame across East Asia, died suddenly on a holiday in Thailand on Monday.

        Phyllis Hyman, a New York jazz singer whose most recent hits included "When You Get Right Down To It" and "Living in Confusion," died yesterday afternoon in Manhattan, a possible suicide, the police said.
An assistant to Ms. Hyman found the singer unconscious in her bedroom at 211 West 56th Street around 2 P.M., said Det.

        Phyllis Hyman, a New York jazz singer whose most recent hits included "When You Get Right Down to It" and "Living in Confusion," died yesterday afternoon in Manhattan, a possible suicide, the police said.
An assistant to Ms. Hyman found the singer unconscious in her bedroom at 211 West 56th Street around 2 P.M., said Detective Dwight Cunningham, a police spokesman.

        Helen Singer Kaplan, a pioneer in the field of sex therapy and founder of the country's first clinic for sexual disorders established at a medical school, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Born Helen Singer in Vienna on Feb. 6, 1929, she came to the United States in 1940 and became a citizen in 1947.
Dr. Kaplan is survived by her husband of 15 years, Charles P. Lazarus; two sons, Dr. Phillip Kaplan and Dr. Peter Kaplan, a daughter, Jennifer Kaplan-D'Addio, all of the Upper East Side; a brother, Frank Singer of California, and two grandsons.
Correction:  August 23, 1995, Wednesday
        An obituary on Saturday of Dr. Helen Singer Kaplan, founder of the Human Sexuality Program at the Payne Whitney Clinic of New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, omitted a survivor.
" A featured singer got sick, and her understudy, rushing in to replace her, fell down the dressing room steps and actually broke a leg.
A singer, actress, radio personality, painter and sculptor, Ms. Venuta was best known as an active participant in New York theater for more than 50 years.
Mr. Hazen, a former vice president and director of Warner Brothers, wrote the contract between the studio and Edison Vitaphone that resulted in "The Jazz Singer," the first movie with sound.
For years, most people at home saw Ms. Graves as "some sort of space alien,"  she said, what with her exotic notions of becoming an opera singer.
Correction:  October 25, 1995, Wednesday
        Subheadings for obituaries on Monday about the singer Maxene Andrews and the writer Kingsley Amis were reversed in some copies.

        Leila Mourad, an Egyptian singer and actress who rose to fame in the 1940's and 50's, died on Tuesday, Egyptian newspapers reported today.
This was never more evident than the day in 1962 when Mr. Bacharach played a  demonstration record of one of his songs for Mrs. Greenberg, and she told him that while she did not like the song she loved the singer.
The next day, Mr. Bacharach returned, saying he had a signed contract with the singer, a young woman named Dionne Warwick.
She did better as Joan Bennett's rival for George Raft in "Nob Hill" (1945) and as the dance-band singer Emily in the Rodgers and  Hammerstein musical "State Fair" (1945).

        Nancy LaMott, a cabaret singer and recording artist whose unadorned, heartfelt interpretations of songs epitomized the best of what could be called an all-American style of traditional pop singing, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
Arriving  in New York in the early 1980's, she worked as a cocktail waitress and a singer  at the Duplex and Don't Tell Mama.
Her family, including her son, Lenny Kravitz, the rock guitarist and singer,  declined to release further details, said the publicity agent, Cynthia Snyder.
"
        Twenty years later, after another recital, Peter G. Davis wrote in The Times: "Very rarely does an unheralded singer stand comparison with international superstars.
Shortly after 9:30 P.M. a 32-year-old woman identified by the young singer's father as the former president of her fan club abruptly surrendered after keeping the police at bay for nearly 10 hours as she sat in a red pickup truck in the motel parking lot with a gun pointed at her temple.
The singer's father, Abraham Quintanilla, said Ms. Saldivar was a former head of the Selena fan club who three weeks ago was fired from her job at the family's clothing boutique here, Selena, Etc.
Selena's father had toured nightclubs across Texas in the 1960's with the original version of Los Dinos but did not achieve wide success until he made young Selena, with her belting vocal power, the lead singer.

        Tessie O'Shea, a Tony-winning music-hall singer and actress with a bouncy stage personality that cheerfully capitalized on her girth, died yesterday at a nursing home in Leesburg, Fla. She was 82 and lived in East Lake Weir, Fla.
