Her father, Dr. John E. T. Camper, a physician in Baltimore, was a founder of the first chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in that city, where she was born and reared.Regular visitors to the home included Thurgood Marshall, who was to become the first black Justice of the United States Supreme Court, and the singer Paul Robeson, who was her godfather.

        Ada Moore, a singer and actress who performed on Broadway and in jazz clubs across the nation, died on Sunday at the Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn.
Correction:  January 11, 1991, Friday
        An obituary in some copies yesterday about Ada Moore, a singer and actress, misstated her relationship to Paul J. Ash.

        Ada Moore, a singer and actress who performed on Broadway and in jazz clubs across the nation, died at Long Island College Hospital on Sunday.

        Rose M. Singer, an original member of the New York City Board of Correction and founder and president emeritus of the Friendly Vistors, a service group that helps women in prison, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Singer, for whom the new women's prison at Rikers Island, the Rose M. Singer Center, is named, was active in civic affairs for most of her adult life.
Mrs. Singer, for whom the new women's prison at Rikers Island, the Rose M. Singer Center, is named, was active in civic affairs for most of her adult life.
National and City Awards
        Mrs. Singer was chairwoman of the voluntary advisory council to the Department of Correction, and of the executive committee of the Women's Prison Association.
In 1977 Mrs Singer was named as one of 50 Women of Achievement by the National Conference of Christians and Jews at its 50th anniversary celebration, and in 1956 she received the city's award for distinguished and exceptional service from Mayor Wagner for 20 years of volunteer activity, an award that she received again from other mayors, most recently Edward I. Koch.

        Bertice Reading, an American jazz singer and actress who became a theater and cabaret star in Britain, died on Saturday at King's College Hospital.

        Heidi Bruehl, an actress and singer, died on Saturday in a hospital at this resort near Munich.
Mrs. Yarrow, the mother of the singer Peter Yarrow of the group Peter, Paul and Mary, died of leukemia, a spokeswoman for the family said.
In 1990, she won praise for her portrayal of a blues singer in "Ground People," an Off Broadway play about a black minstrel troupe in the 1920's.
To support herself, she worked as a cocktail pianist, and built a reputation as a pop singer.
She entered the theater first as a singer, then as an actress, and spent some time working in theater production and management before opening her agency early in the 1950's.
