During the course of her career, she appeared in Hollywood films ("The Great Caruso," "The Search"), on Broadway (as an unscrupulous concert singer in the 1953 drama "Sherlock Holmes") and on television (as Kim Stanley's mother in a postwar drama set in France).
Mrs. Simon is survived by three daughters, Carly Simon, the singer and composer, Lucy Levine and Joanna Walker, all of Manhattan, and a son, Peter Simon of Chilmark, Mass.
      

        Willie Mae Ford Smith, a pioneering gospel singer, died on Wednesday at the Tower Village Nursing Home in St. Louis.

        Natalie Hall Rowe, a musical-comedy star and opera singer in New York and London in the 1920's and 30's, died last Friday at her home in Edgecomb, Me.
She published a number of children's books by the singer Carly Simon, a friend and Martha's Vineyard neighbor.
Miss Nelli, a solid, able singer who was often called "the Toscanini soprano" because of her seven-year association with the conductor, was reared in Pittsburgh and made her debut in 1937 with the Salmaggi Opera in New York City.
Ms. Gray also had a career as a singer, appearing in clubs and on television and radio shows in the United States and abroad.

        Marion Williams, a pioneering gospel singer, died on Saturday at the Albert Einstein Medical Institute in Philadelphia.
Miss Williams was a flamboyant singer who put her songs across with pure sustained tones, swooping phrases and deep growls.
In 1947 she joined the Clara Ward Singers, the preeminent gospel group of the 1950's, and soon became the lead singer.
As a featured singer on "Your Hit Parade" from 1950 to 1957, Miss Collins was America's singing sweetheart, noted for her trademark high-necked blouses and such standard songs as "Too Young," "Shrimp Boats" and "Harbor Lights.
Impressed by this cheerful woman who told people to get happy by smoking a particular cigarette, the sponsor signed her to do the commercials and to be a featured singer when the show began its official run in October 1950. Letters From the Clergy
        In a 1979 interview, Miss Collins was asked if she liked her girl-next-door image.
Her two marriages, to Mr. Scott and to the singer Ron Holgate, ended in divorce.
She earned bachelor's degrees in English and music at Western Reserve University (now Case Western Reserve) and moved to New York to become an opera singer.
Sought after by leading artists and photographers -- John Singer Sargent, Cecil Beaton, Baron De Meyer and Horst P. Horst all paid homage -- Mrs. Lancaster was a popular hostess for guests from American diplomats to the King and Queen of England.

        Lillian Hayman, a Tony Award-winning actress and singer, died on Oct. 25 at her home in Hollis, N.Y. She was 72.
The star of the revue was to have been a singer and dancer named Maude de Forest.
Ms. Donaldson, born in Harlem, became a nightclub singer, touring with Harry Belafonte early in her career.

        Sally A. Knapp, a singer and actress who appeared in numerous productions of Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, died on Tuesday at Gwinett County Hospital in Georgia.

        Carmen McRae, the jazz singer known for her probing interpretations of lyrics and her bruised but unbowed point of view, died on Thursday evening at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 74.
Her career took off when she returned to New York and developed an act as a stand-up singer at Minton's Playhouse in Harlem, receiving enough notice to be named best new female singer by Down Beatmagazine.
Her career took off when she returned to New York and developed an act as a stand-up singer at Minton's Playhouse in Harlem, receiving enough notice to be named best new female singer by Down Beatmagazine.
"
        The singer's two marriages, to the be-bop drummer Kenny Clarke and the pianist Ike Isaacs, both ended in divorce.
