
        Frances Godowsky, a prolific painter and sometime singer better known as George and Ira's little sister, Frankie Gershwin, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Godowsky, who had been her brother George's tryout singer, played a similar role for her husband, posing in bright red beret and bottle-green dress as a photographic test subject.
Although painting remained her main artistic outlet, in her later years Mrs. Godowsky re-emerged as a singer.
Born on May 14, 1939, in New York, Ms. Grillo first won attention as a singer with the Brooklyn Opera Company in the early 1960's.
Though she sang occasional leading roles at the Met (Carmen and Azucena among them), her value to the company was as a dependable, dramatically involving singer of supporting roles, like Maddalena in Verdi's ''Rigoletto'' and Grimgerde in Wagner's ''Walkure.
'' Her mother, the former Irene Alice Richardson, who had trained as an opera singer, was a ''beautiful, lively, witty woman with a happy temperament.

        Betty Roche, a singer who performed with Duke Ellington in the 1940's and 50's and was noted for her strong, dramatic delivery of blues material, died on Feb. 16 at the Mainland Manor Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Pleasantville, N.J. She  was 81.
With its famous pyramidal lyric scheme -- it begins, ''The blues/the blues ain't/the blues ain't nothing/the blues ain't nothing but a cold gray day'' -- it became one of Ellington's greatest pieces for a singer.
''
        Ms. Roche also performed and recorded with the pianist Earl Hines, the trumpeter Clark Terry and the singer and pianist Charles Brown.
'' The singer never again left the Western Hemisphere.

        Dusty Springfield, the smoky-voiced English torch singer whose interpretations of pop ballads were suffused with a heartbroken wistfulness, died on Tuesday at her home in Henley-on-Thames, near Oxford, west of London.
After supporting her mother and son by working as a hairdresser in Prague, Miss Tolstoy moved to Paris after her mother's death in the 1930's and worked as a nightclub singer.

        Francine Everett, a singer, dancer and actress who was one of the stars of the all-black cast ''race'' movies of the 30's and 40's, died at a nursing home in the Bronx on May 27.
''
        Her arresting looks may not have benefited her career as a Hollywood player at a time when black actresses were rarely portrayed as glamorous, but they served her well as a model and singer.

        Dolores Jimenez Alcantara, a blind singer who was one of Spain's leading flamenco artists, died on June 14 in a hospital in Malaga.
A fellow flamenco singer, Manuel Torre, earlier had converted the same spirited ballad into a melancholy flamenco song.
In 1934 she married a fellow singer, Lucas Soto Martin, known professionally as Luquitas de Marchena.
Mrs. Werblin, the former Leah Ray Hubbard of Norfolk, Va., was a singer with Tommy Dorsey, Phil Harris and other bands as Leah Ray.

        Helen Forrest, the big-band singer whose dreamy hits with the Harry James orchestra distilled the nostalgic spirit of World War II pop, died on Sunday at the Motion Picture Country Home and Hospital in Los Angeles.
Known as ''the voice of the name bands,'' Ms. Forrest became a leading vocalist in 1938 when she replaced Billie Holiday as the singer with Artie Shaw's orchestra.
Correction:  July 19, 1999, Monday  An obituary of the big-band singer Helen Forrest on Tuesday included a credit erroneously in her recording history with Artie Shaw.
An accomplished stand-up bassist with a beautiful soprano voice, Anita Carter also appeared on television shows like ''The Kate Smith Evening Hour,'' where she could be seen singing with (and being wooed by) Hank Williams in one of the legendary country singer's few television appearances.
She was signed to a seven-year contract by 20th Century-Fox, during which she made her film debut as a nightclub singer in Joseph L. Mankiewicz's ''Somewhere in the Night'' (1946), starring John Hodiak.
''
        Ali won the bout on a unanimous decision, Mrs. Shain giving him 9 of the 15 rounds and feeling elated that she had reached the pinnacle of her calling, ''like when an opera singer sings at the Met.

        Viola Sheely, an actress, a singer and a founding member of the Urban Bush Women dance company, died on July 27 in Tompkins Square Park on the Lower East Side.
Correction:  August 17, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary on Aug. 8 about Viola Sheely, a dancer and singer, misstated the relationship of a survivor and omitted a reference to four others.

        Katie Webster, the blues and boogie-woogie pianist and singer known as the Swamp Boogie Queen, a mainstay of Gulf Coast rhythm-and-blues recordings in the 1950's and 60's and a popular touring artist in the 80's and early 90's, died on Sunday at her home in League City, Tex.
At 15 she married the pianist Earl Webster, and around that time the guitarist and singer Ashton Savoy tookMs.
She came to Manhattan at 17 to become a folk singer.

        Amalia Rodrigues, the Portuguese singer who was considered the queen of fado, died yesterday at her home in Lisbon.
''I have so much sadness in me, I am a pessimist, a nihilist, everything fado demands in a singer, I have in me,'' Ms. Rodrigues once said.

        Ella Mae Morse, the sultry, swinging pop-jazz singer whose 1942 hit, ''Cow-Cow Boogie,'' became the first million seller for the fledgling Capitol Records and helped establish the label, died on Saturday at the Western Arizona Regional Medical Center in Bullhead City.

        Mabel King, an actress and singer best known for her portrayal of Evillene, the Wicked Witch of the West, in the Broadway and movie productions of ''The Wiz'' and her role as the mother in the mid-70's television comedy ''What's Happening!
Ms. Kahn was nominated for Academy Awards for best supporting actress two years in a row, for her portrayal of a floozy named Trixie Delight in ''Paper Moon'' in 1973 and her role as a saloon singer in ''Blazing Saddles'' in 1974.
''
        In ''Blazing Saddles,'' Ms. Kahn used her classically trained voice in an amusing portrayal of a saloon singer who helps Gene Wilder foil Mel Brooks's evil plan to do in the new sheriff in town.
Only one, Enrico Caruso Jr., sought a career as a singer.
