Her breakthrough, though, came in 1950, when she became the first American singer to win the first prize at the International Music Competition in Geneva.
But at her best she was an exquisite, unmannered and deeply communicative singer.
In 1960 she married the singer Bobby Darin, her costar in the 1961 romantic comedy ''Come September,'' after a whirlwind courtship.
''
        The same year she appeared in her first film, ''Le Chanteur Inconnu'' (''The Unknown Singer'').
Her only survivor is her daughter, a musician, singer and composer who plays keyboard in the group the Psychedelic Furs.
She had her first solo exhibition in 1975 at Nancy Singer Gallery in St. Louis and the first of many New York solo shows at Nancy Hoffman Gallery in SoHo in 1977.

        Lillian Lux, the matriarch of a celebrated Yiddish theatrical family who performed for decades as an actress and singer in New York and around the world, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
Although she regarded herself as more of a singer than an actress, she appeared in roughly 30 films and was half of the successful radio comedy duo ''The Bickersons,'' in which she and Don Ameche played a mismatched, querulous couple.
Ms. Sosenko wrote ''Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup,'' which became Hildegarde's signature song, and was the singer's partner until 1955, when the relationship dissolved.
Sosenko wrote ''Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup,'' which became Hildegarde's signature song, and was the singer's partner until 1955, when the relationship dissolved.
In 1947 Ms. Phillips became the first black singer known to have appeared with the Metropolitan Opera Chorus, in what she recalled as an apparently accidental breaking of an unofficial color barrier.
For several years beginning in 1963, the festival was run by the nonprofit Newport Folk Foundation, which Mr. and Mrs. Wein established with the folk singer Pete Seeger and his wife, Toshi.

        Jane Lawrence Smith, an actress and singer and the widow of the architect and sculptor Tony Smith, died on Aug. 5 at her home in Greenwich Village.
At various times a singer, dancer, stripper, carnival performer, film actress, clothing designer and memoirist, Ms. Friedman was married to Bruce from 1951 until their divorce in 1957.

        Shirley Horn, a jazz singer and pianist who drew audiences close with a powerfully confidential, vibratoless delivery, died yesterday at a nursing home in Cheverly, Md.
Ms. Horn was a unique singer, with one of the slowest deliveries in jazz and a very unusual way of phrasing, putting stress on certain words and letting others slip away.
Mercury signed Ms. Horn as a singer, not a singer-pianist.
During the run of ''Rio Rita,'' which The New York Times review said had ''inordinately beautiful dancing girls,'' she eloped with Samson Raphaelson, who wrote both the play and film versions of ''The Jazz Singer,'' as well as the short story on which they were based, among many other things.
''
        Correction:  November 18, 2005, Friday  An obituary on Saturday about Dorothy Wegman Raphaelson, a Ziegfeld girl, misidentified the author of the screenplay for the 1927 movie ''The Jazz Singer.
