
        Mae Barnes, the sassy pop-jazz singer and dancer who introduced the Charleston on Broadway and later became a New York nightclub legend, died at Jamaica Hospital in Boston on Dec. 13.
Ms. Ziminska-Sygietynska became famous as a cabaret singer for whom leading Polish poets wrote songs.
She embarked on an international career as a lieder and oratorio singer, appearing with such conductors as Arturo Toscanini, Sir Thomas Beecham and Leonard Bernstein.
Ms. Baker, whose original name was Delores Williams, was born in Chicago; an aunt was the blues singer Memphis Minnie.
Ms. Baker sang gospel in church, and in the mid-1940's she worked as a blues singer, calling herself Little Miss Sharecropper and Bea Baker.
But in that segregated era, a version recorded with the same musicians by a white singer, Georgia Gibbs, reached No.
Correction:  March 14, 1997, Friday
        A picture credit on Wednesday with an obituary of the rhythm-and-blues singer LaVern Baker misspelled the surname of the photographer and misstated the date.

        Lenore LoPresti, a singer, actress and interior decorator, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
As a young woman, she had careers as both a singer and an actress and worked for a time in production at NBC Television.

        Laura Nyro, the New York-born singer and songwriter whose impassioned, iconoclastic music exploded pop song conventions in a feverish search for emotional truth, died on Tuesday at her home in Danbury, Conn. She was 49.
And her live concerts were fervent affairs in which the dark-haired, dark-eyed singer, exotically gowned and surrounded by roses, performed with a transported intensity.
Her mother, an American opera singer, worked in Europe before World War I and married in Germany.

        Thelma Carpenter, whose long roller-coaster career as a singer took her to the heights with the big bands of the 1930's and 40's, out of show business into years as a file clerk and back to the big-time on Broadway in the 60's, was found dead on Thursday in her apartment in Manhattan.
''I'm a singer first, last and always,'' Ms. Carpenter once said.
Later that year, Coleman Hawkins, the legendary jazz saxophonist, returned to the United States after five years in Europe, formed a band and looked for a singer.
''
        Correction:  May 30, 1997, Friday
        An obituary of the singer Thelma Carpenter on May 17 misidentified the Broadway show in which she appeared with Beatrice Lillie.

        Rita Dimitri, a multilingual singer who was the ebullient spirit of the Manhattan supper club La Chansonette for more than 20 years, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Besides performing at the candle-lighted Chansonette, Miss Dimitri appeared on Broadway and on national tour in the mid-1950's in the Cole Porter musical ''Can-Can,'' playing the singer who owns a boite in Montmarte.

        Margaret Harshaw, an American soprano and mezzo-soprano who was best known as a Wagnerian singer but whose performances in Mozart and Verdi operas were also highly regarded, died on Friday at Condell Memorial Hospital in Libertyville, Ill. She was 88 and lived in Lake Forest, Ill.
        Ms. Harshaw sang at the Metropolitan Opera for 22 seasons, from November 1942, when she made her debut as the Second Norn in Wagner's ''Die Gotterdammerung,'' until March 1964, when she gave her final performance as Ortud in ''Lohengrin.
'' Because she spent the first nine years of her Met career as a mezzo-soprano and then switched to soprano roles, she sang more Wagner roles than any other singer in the Met's history.

        The French singer and songwriter known simply as Barbara, who earned a huge following in the French-speaking world for her melancholic lyrics and melodies, died on Monday in the American Hospital in Paris.
She studied the piano and voice as a teen-ager, but she dropped out of the Paris Music Conservatory to make her own career as a singer when she was only 19.
