Her mother, evidently a talented singer, began Ms. Nilsson's musical education at 3, buying her a toy piano.
''
        In today's opera culture, the best managed voices tend to mature in the singer's 40's and begin to deteriorate during the 50's.
'' Ms. Winters played gangsters' girlfriends (''Larceny,'' ''Johnny Stool Pigeon''); a bad-girl cabaret singer whose piano player is Liberace (''South Sea Sinner''); the Marlene Dietrich role in a warmed-over-lightly version of ''Destry Rides Again'' (''Frenchie''); a better-quality nightclub singer who is the object of Frank Sinatra's affections (''Meet Danny Wilson''); a waitress in the Old West married to bad guy (''Untamed Frontier''), and a number of other good/bad girls.
'' Ms. Winters played gangsters' girlfriends (''Larceny,'' ''Johnny Stool Pigeon''); a bad-girl cabaret singer whose piano player is Liberace (''South Sea Sinner''); the Marlene Dietrich role in a warmed-over-lightly version of ''Destry Rides Again'' (''Frenchie''); a better-quality nightclub singer who is the object of Frank Sinatra's affections (''Meet Danny Wilson''); a waitress in the Old West married to bad guy (''Untamed Frontier''), and a number of other good/bad girls.
She studied education and music, and went on to the New England Conservatory of Music, hoping to become a classical singer.
Ms. Reeve, a singer and an actress, won international admiration for her devotion to Mr. Reeve's care and for her involvement in the Christopher Reeve Foundation, which seeks a cure for spinal cord paralysis.
In his book ''The American Opera Singer,'' the critic Peter G. Davis writes of a now infamous 1969 Saturday afternoon broadcast performance of ''Lucia'' at the Met.
For a brief time, though, Ms. Moffo was a lovely singer and appealing artist who broke out of the traditional career mode to reach the larger public.
She was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actress for ''Airport'' (1970); she won a best-actress Tony that same year for her portrayal of an alcoholic down-and-out singer in Mr. Simon's laughing-through-tears drama ''The Gingerbread Lady''; she and her co-star, Charles Durning, received Emmy nominations for ''Queen of the Stardust Ballroom'' (1975), playing a couple who warm to romance when they meet at a dance hall.
She had a long relationship with David Collyer, a Broadway singer and teacher, who died in 1996, and to the end kept a publicity photograph of him in her sitting room.
She arrived in the town of Relizane and joined a troupe of traveling musicians when she was 20, performing at festivals as a singer, a dancer and an equestrienne, riding with a rifle in each hand.
Over five decades, billed as Luba Kadison, she played 7-year-old walk-ons, teenage ingénues and then starring roles in works by the greatest playwrights of Yiddish theater, including I. S. Singer and Sholem Asch.
Singer, and Malkeleh, a disturbed girl, in Singer's ''Yoshe Kalb.
Singer, and Malkeleh, a disturbed girl, in Singer's ''Yoshe Kalb.
In the last weeks of a 1992 Broadway production, she succeeded Sheena Easton, the pop singer, who had left the show.
Her death was reported by Alec C. Treuhaft, senior vice president of IMG Artists, speaking on behalf of the singer's husband, the composer Peter Lieberson.
Her breakthrough as a singer came with the Pepsico Summerfare festival in Purchase, N.Y., in 1985 when she was cast by Mr. Sellars in his production of Handel's ''Giulio Cesare.
In 17 years with the Trumans -- including two years chaperoning their daughter, Margaret, when she was making national tours as an aspiring classical singer -- Miss Odum became close to the family.
''
        For a singer of such unquestionable stature, Miss Schwarzkopf's work was controversial.
A hard-working, self-challenging singer, she performed 74 roles in 53 operas, including Anne Trulove in the world premiere of Stravinsky's ''Rake's Progress'' in Venice in 1951.
During this time she gained a reputation as a singer fiercely determined to leap from the small roles typically assigned a newcomer into substantive parts.
Mr. Jefferson's biography, ''Elisabeth Schwarzkopf,'' which came out at the time, raised debate about her wartime role, depicting her as an ambitious singer who was focused on furthering her career.
Miss Ivogün was so impressed, she took on Miss Schwarzkopf as a private student, coaching her in the high soprano repertory, and training her as a lieder singer.
Ms. Burrows said Ms. Holmes's favorite photo, taken in 1949, is of the jazz singer Billy Eckstine surrounded by grinning female fans, one with her head on his chest.
It was, though, not as a pedagogue, musicologist, singer, analyst and critic that she made her mark, but as an entertainer.
Ms. Russell gave a number of explanations for why her ambitions changed from being a serious singer to being a serious satirist.

        Ruth Brown, the gutsy rhythm and blues singer whose career extended to acting and crusading for musicians' rights, died yesterday in Las Vegas.
''She was one of the original divas,'' said the singer Bonnie Raitt, who worked with Ms. Brown and Mr. Begle to improve royalties for rhythm and blues performers.
''
        Ms. Brown sustained a career for six decades: first as a bright, bluesy singer who was called ''the girl with a tear in her voice'' and then, after some lean years, as the embodiment of an earthy, indomitable black woman.
The pop singer Frankie Laine gave her a lasting nickname: Miss Rhythm.
Working the rhythm and blues circuit in the 1950s, when dozens of her singles reached the R&B Top 10, Ms. Brown drove a Cadillac and had romances with stars like the saxophonist Willis (Gator Tail) Jackson and the singer Clyde McPhatter of the Drifters.
The comedian Redd Foxx, whom she had once helped out of a financial jam, invited her to Los Angeles in 1975 to play the gospel singer Mahalia Jackson in ''Selma,'' a musical about civil rights he was producing.

        Anita O'Day, whose coolly ebullient and rhythmically assured vocal style made her a premier singer of both the big-band and postwar jazz eras, and whose taste for fast living secured her name as one of jazz's toughest survivors, died yesterday in Los Angeles.
''When you think of the great jazz singers, I would think that Anita is the only white woman that belongs in the same breath as Ella Fitzgerald and Billie Holiday and Sarah Vaughan,'' said the jazz critic Will Friedwald in ''Anita O'Day: Life of a Jazz Singer,'' a forthcoming documentary directed by Mr. Cavolina and Ian McCrudden.
Bucking the glamorous expectations of a big-band canary, or ''girl singer,'' she performed in a standard-issue band jacket and skirt.
Ms. O'Day was fond of asserting that she was not a singer, but a song stylist; she took pride in her self-made technique and her ability to deliver a tune with confidence, no matter how frenetic the setting.
Mr. Barrymore handpicked Ms. Marsh, then a teenage bit player, for the role of Trilby, the virginal young singer who falls under Svengali's control.

        Georgia Gibbs, a brassy-voiced pop singer who topped the charts in the 1950s with ''Kiss of Fire'' and other hits, died on Saturday in Manhattan, where she had lived for many years.
Her Web site announced the death, suggesting that another singer was needed for ''the big U.S.O.
She appeared in movies, including playing a singer based on herself in ''The Benny Goodman Story'' (1955).
A former stage actress and nightclub singer, Ms. Webb was said in later years to resemble a cross between Zsa Zsa Gabor and Auntie Mame, and she lived both parts to the hilt.
(A former singer and actress who was a client of Ms. Webb's, Ms. Spillane was once married to the crime novelist Mickey Spillane.
