She won the Israeli equivalent of the Grammy Award for best female singer in 1980, 1981 and 1986, and won second prize in the 1983 Eurovision Song Contest.
Leonard Reed, a singer and dancer at the Apollo in 1935 and theater manager from 1950 to 1960, remembers her as ''one of the sweetest girls I ever met in my life.
After graduating from Julia Richmond High School, Vivian joined ''Shuffle Along,'' the Broadway production put together in 1921 by the ragtime pianist Eubie Blake and the singer and lyricist Noble Sissle.
The book was lauded in a review by the cabaret singer Bobby Short in The New York Times Book Review.
She may be best remembered for ''Key Largo,'' for which she won the Oscar for best supporting actress playing the part of Gaye Dawn, a has-been cabaret singer who, in one emotionally charged scene, is forced by her sadistic lover to sing ''Moanin' Low'' in return for a drink.

        Vicki Sue Robinson, the vivacious pop-gospel singer whose 1976 hit ''Turn the Beat Around'' became a signature anthem of the disco era, died on Thursday at her home in Wilton, Conn. She was 46.
A prolific jingle singer whose 1999 Off Broadway show, ''Vicki Sue Robinson: Behind the Beat,'' had a successful limited engagement at the Kaufman Theater, Ms. Robinson was a powerful, exuberant belter whose dance-oriented records were among the best sung and least gimmicky disco records of late 70's.
As both a singer and songwriter, Ms. Robinson, who described herself as a latchkey child with a bohemian upbringing, exemplified the New York musical melting pot in the late 1960's and 70's with its colliding echoes of pop, rock, gospel and Broadway.
Ms. Robinson was born in Harlem to a black actor and a white radical  folk singer.

        Teri Thornton, a jazz singer who had started to resurrect her career after winning the Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition in 1998 and being signed to a major record label for the first time in three decades, died on Tuesday at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center in New Jersey.
She was born in Detroit, where her parents, Robert Avery, a Pullman porter, and Burniece Crews Avery, a choir director and singer who was the host of a local radio show, encouraged her to study classical music.
She took part in a television program celebrating Duke Ellington's 40th anniversary in music, and Ella Fitzgerald told Down Beat magazine that Ms. Thornton was her favorite singer.
''She didn't try and put on any great airs,'' recalled the folk singer Pete Seeger, a longtime friend who occasionally performed with her.
In addition to her daughter Katie, an actress who lives in Stratford, Ms. Marchand is survived by a son, David of Madison, Wis.; another daughter, Rachel Sparer Bersier, an opera singer of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
Born Rose Marie Cassaniti in Detroit, she was a singer who had a radio show.
'' In the half-hour anthology series, which ran on NBC from 1953 to 1961, Miss Young played characters from Queen Nefertiti to a nightclub singer.

        Sally Amato, a singer and actress who founded the Amato Opera with her husband, the conductor Anthony Amato, died on Wednesday at her home in City Island in the Bronx.
She began her performing career as a child, when she and her sisters performed vaudeville skits in movie theaters, and she continued to work as an actress and singer into the first decades of the Amato Opera, which she and her husband started in 1948.

        Renee Orin, an actress and singer known for her roles in Broadway musicals, died on Sunday in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Los Angeles.
''
        She was called ''a singer with a lovely voice and a charming, ingratiating personality,'' by the jazz critic John S. Wilson in a 1976 review in The New York Times of a program of songs sung by her and her husband at the Ballroom nightclub.
When she became enamored of Mr. Geldof, who was then the lead singer of the Boomtown Rats, she followed the band on tour until Mr. Geldof became just as smitten with her, and they embarked on a relationship.
One guest was Michael Hutchence, the lead singer of the band INXS, and the two fell madly in love.
The show's star was the temperamental French actress and singer Lilo, who was not amused by the way audiences were applauding this redheaded newcomer during out-of-town tryouts and who saw to it that Ms. Verdon's part was cut back.
After they divorced five years later, she became a serious singer under the tutelage of Bobby Troupe, a jazz musician and songwriter.
The singer herself told Life magazine in 1957: ''It's only a thimbleful of a voice, and I have to use it close to the microphone.
She starred as an alcoholic singer in the 1956 film ''The Great Man.
Correction:  October 23, 2000, Monday  An obituary of the singer and actress Julie London on Thursday misspelled the surname of her second husband, who died last year.
But not long after signing with CBS, she played quite different parts on three successive evenings: a vicious singer, a spiteful flapper and a libidinous shrew.

        Kirsty MacColl, a singer and songwriter with a string of hits in Britain, died on Monday in Mexico while vacationing in Cozumel.

        Libertad Lamarque Bouza, a singer and actress whose career ranged from the gritty days of early tango recordings in Argentina to the contemporary daily soap operas produced for mass audiences in the Spanish-speaking world, died on Dec. 12 in Mexico City.
