(Miss Anderson, the first black singer to appear at the Metropolitan Opera, did not make her debut there until 1955.
Miss Bishop once hoped to become an opera singer.

        Isabel Kambert, an opera singer who escaped Nazi Germany with liverwurst sandwiches stuffed with folded 10,000-mark notes, and who later in New York became known as Mme.

        Lola Beltran, the soulful Mexican singer whose achingly emotional renditions  of mariachi ballads made her known as Lola the Great to generations of Latin Americans, died on Sunday night in Mexico City.
"She's a world-class singer, up there rubbing shoulders with Billie Holiday and Edith Piaf.
The purity of her voice and her masterly technique immediately won them over, and within a year she was the star of her own program and the most popular female mariachi singer in Mexico.
After leaving KQED, she produced and directed "Voices of the Tango," a documentary about the Argentine tango singer Carlos Gardel, and produced "Czeslaw Milosz: The Poet Remembers," which was directed by Jan Nemec.
She was a singer during, and for some years after, the war.
Ms. Montana had her biggest hit, "I Want to Be a Cowboy's Sweetheart," in 1935, the first million-selling hit for a female country singer.
She joined the revue of a well-known country singer, Stuart Hamblen, in 1931, working with  a group called the Montana Cowgirls; Hamblen renamed her Patsy.
The vibrato aside, she was an attractive and vibrant singer who created a sense of feminine vulnerability in roles like the Countess  in "Le Nozze di Figaro," Dona Elvira in "Don Giovanni" or Mimi in "La Boheme," but could also be a commanding Tosca and a lively Fiordiligi in "Cosi fan Tutte.

        Ella Fitzgerald, whose sweet, silvery voice and endlessly inventive vocal improvisations made her the most celebrated jazz singer of her generation, died  yesterday at home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 79.
A pre-eminent American singer who brought a classic sense of musical proportion and balance to everything she touched, Miss Fitzgerald won the sobriquet "first lady of song" and earned the unqualified admiration of most of  her peers.
Musicians from Bing Crosby to Benny Goodman, when asked to name their favorite singer, cited Ella Fitzgerald.
Mel Torme hailed her as having "the best ear of any singer ever.
But she also sang and  was attracted to the recordings of Louis Armstrong, Bing Crosby and the Boswell  Sisters, in particular the group's lead singer, Connee Boswell.
After Webb died in 1939, the young singer was the band's nominal leader until mid-1942, when it broke up.
The singer was 30 when she fell in love with the bassist Ray Brown while  they were on tour with Dizzy Gillespie's band.
"
        A Huge Change Of Direction
        Dictated largely by the fads of the moment, Miss Fitzgerald's pre-1955 pop recording career was an artistically mixed bag and stood distinct from her work  as a swing and jazz singer in nightclubs.
A two-disk, 39-song collection, it includes the cream of the singer's pop output recorded for Decca between 1938 and 1955.
This classic live album was recorded in 1960 when the singer was at the height of her powers.
Taken together, these 16 disks, recorded between 1956 and 1964, constitute the singer's crowning achievement.

        Lillian Clark, a singer who performed with many stars of the big-band era and helped preserve the work of her husband, the composer and arranger Sy Oliver, died on Tuesday at her home in New York City.
She had no training as a singer but was persuaded by a friend to try out for a female vocalist's spot with Herbie Kay, a band leader who  had a national radio show called ''The Yeast Foamers,'' apparently because it was sponsored by Fleischmann's Yeast.
She left Mr. Kay's group and moved to Manhattan, where Rudy Vallee, then a popular singer, helped her get a singing job at a popular night club, El Morocco.
She had no training as a singer but was persuaded by a friend to try out, successfully, for a vocalist's spot with Herbie Kay, a band leader who had a national radio show called ''The Yeast Foamers,'' apparently because it was sponsored by Fleischmann's Yeast.
She left Mr. Kay's group and moved to Manhattan, where Rudy Vallee, then a popular singer, helped her get a singing job at a popular night club, El Morocco.

        Peg LaCentra, a singer with Artie Shaw's first orchestra, died on June 1 at her home in Los Angeles.
In 1931, after working for a local radio station as an announcer, actress and occasionally a singer, she moved to New York, where she sang on network radio programs, although she considered herself primarily an actress.
Mr. Shaw told her he was preparing to form his own orchestra and needed a singer.
Not until two years after Mrs. Farkas arrived did she make her first splash in the social life of Luxembourg, with a charity gala that featured the singer Sacha Distel and a United States Army orchestra.
As actress, singer, adapter of plays, radio personality and teacher, Ms. Kressyn was one of the most popular artists in the Yiddish-speaking theater, brightening musicals as well as plays over a period of 60 years.
Singer's ''Brothers Askenazi'' and ''Yoshe Kalb'' and in Isaac Bashevis Singer's ''Family Muskat,'' and played the title role in an adaptation of Philip Yordan's ''Anna Lucasta.
Singer's ''Brothers Askenazi'' and ''Yoshe Kalb'' and in Isaac Bashevis Singer's ''Family Muskat,'' and played the title role in an adaptation of Philip Yordan's ''Anna Lucasta.

        Alma Kitchell, a pioneering radio singer who became a pioneering talk show host, sang in the first televised opera and capped her career by presiding over the first television cooking show, died on Wednesday at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 103.
For all the fans she acquired as a singer, Miss Kitchell became even more famous as a talk show host, and she put her celebrity to civic use, especially during World War II.
Mrs. Davenport's first novel, "Of Lena Geyer" (1936), was recalled by one reviewer in the 1980's as a "a vivid portrayal of a great opera singer.
She held several jobs, becoming a professional singer in Australia, working as a Conservative Party organizer and serving as a magistrate in England.
