
        Nell Carter, the robustly sassy singer and actress who exploded onto the New York musical stage in the Fats Waller revue ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' and went on to become a popular television star in the series ''Gimme a Break!,'' died yesterday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 54.
As a singer and stage personality, Ms. Carter was also a natural comedian.

        Mary Ellis, the young opera singer for whom Rudolf Friml wrote ''Rose-Marie'' in 1924 and who later became the queen of musicals in London, died there on Thursday at her home on Eaton Square.

        Nina Simone, a singer whose distinctively emotional style blended elements of jazz, gospel, blues, European art song and other influences, died yesterday at her home in Carry-le-Rouet, France, near Marseille.
Although she was most often characterized as a jazz singer, Ms. Simone, who usually performed with a rhythm section and always accompanied herself on piano, was almost impossible to classify.
''If I had to be called something,'' she wrote in 1991 in her autobiography, ''I Put a Spell on You,'' ''it should have been a folk singer because there was more folk and blues than jazz in my playing.
Her survivors include three brothers, a sister and a daughter, Lisa, a singer and actress known professionally as Simone who is currently appearing on Broadway in ''Aida.

        June Carter Cash, a singer, songwriter and actress and the wife and collaborator of Johnny Cash, died yesterday in Nashville.
June was the most outgoing of the group, a comedian as well as singer, and the shows mixed traditional songs of the Carter Family (like ''Will the Circle Be Unbroken'') with pop, gospel and vaudeville comedy.
It was there that Ms. Cash met Elvis Presley, as well as two of her future husbands, the singer Carl Smith, and then Mr. Cash.
Correction:  May 17, 2003, Saturday  An obituary of the country music singer and songwriter June Carter Cash yesterday misidentified the father of one of her children, Rozanna Cash.

        Celia Cruz, the Cuban singer who became the queen of Latin music, died yesterday at her home in Fort Lee, N.J. She was 77.

        Elisabeth Welch, an expatriate cabaret singer who mixed elegant phrasing and emotive power to craft extraordinary interpretations of the songs of America's Jazz Age and Britain's musical stage, died on Tuesday at a nursing home outside London.
A saloon singer who would make any saloon into a salon.
She received her first favorable mentions in the press and appeared as a singer in chic nightclubs.
''It is rare to come across an opera star who is as good an actress as she is a singer,'' Mr. Pappano said in The Times of London on Thursday.
Ms. MacKenzie wavered between a career as a singer or one as a concert violinist until her $3,000 violin was stolen from a parked car.
As a singer her style was likened to Patsy Montana, and one of her most successful recordings was a version for RCA Victor of Montana's hit ''I Want to Be a Cowboy's Sweetheart.
''
        In 1937, she married Jack Brown, a singer.
'' ''There Shall Be No Night,'' another of her collaborations with Silver, was recorded by the singer Herb Jeffries with the Duke Ellington Orchestra in 1940.

        Dr. Margaret Singer, a leading expert on brainwashing who testified in several high-profile cases contending that various groups inappropriately manipulated their members to control their behavior, died on Nov. 23 in Berkeley, Calif. She was 82.
In her long career, Dr. Singer investigated and testified about techniques used by North Koreans against American soldiers in wartime and the Symbionese Liberation Army's influence over the kidnapped heiress Patricia Hearst.
In the 1950's, Dr. Singer interviewed a number of American soldiers who had renounced the United States after returning from captivity in North Korea.
Years later, she testified in defense of Ms. Hearst in a case that brought Dr. Singer national recognition and helped generate public curiosity about mind control.
Dr. Singer and her colleagues delved into a little known area of psychology at the trial, arguing that Ms. Hearst had helped rob a bank because she had been brainwashed to embrace the values of the Symbionese Liberation Army, which abducted her.
Though Ms. Hearst was convicted, the trial bolstered Dr. Singer's reputation as an expert on mind control.
''
        Dr. Singer said that she had interviewed hundreds of members of the church and testified that its techniques for mind control were more powerful than those used by the North Koreans on their war prisoners.
''
        Dr. Singer went on to testify as an expert witness in dozens of cases against groups she described as destructive cults.
Several members of the People's Temple, with Dr. Singer's help, left that group before 900 people committed mass suicide in Guyana in 1978.
Dr. Singer would often help win lawsuits against groups that former members claimed had lured them into dark, insular worlds that left them psychologically traumatized.
''Her testimony would help people understand the clinical impact of a cult's manipulation and exploitation,'' said Dr. Richard Ofshe, a sociology professor at the University of California at Berkeley who worked with Dr. Singer for 20 years.
''
        Dr. Singer's battles made her a target for harassment and death threats.
Margaret Thaler Singer was born in Denver and earned her bachelor's degree, master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of Denver.
Dr. Singer conducted several widely known studies on schizophrenia and was a renowned family therapist.
In addition to her son, Dr. Singer is survived by her husband, Dr. Jerome R. Singer; a daughter, Martha Singer, also of Berkeley; and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Dr. Singer is survived by her husband, Dr. Jerome R. Singer; a daughter, Martha Singer, also of Berkeley; and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Dr. Singer is survived by her husband, Dr. Jerome R. Singer; a daughter, Martha Singer, also of Berkeley; and five grandchildren.
      
