She died of cancer, her twin sister, Pearl Ausubel of Manhattan, said.
Besides her sister, she is survived by a niece and nephew.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Katharine P. Darrow, who is vice president of The New York Times Company for broadcasting, information services and corporate development; a sister, Marion Schild of Brooklyn, a retired librarian at the Library of Congress, and three grandchildren.
      
Loud is survived by a son, Roger, of Lake Placid, N.Y.; a sister, Elisabeth Harrison of Rumson, N.J.; three brothers, Herbert McAneny of Princeton, N.J., Ernest McAneny of New York City and David McAneny of Newtown Square, Pa.; seven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Alexis, of McLean, Va.; a sister, Nina Moore Galston of Huntington, L.I.
She is survived by her husband, David Kelly, chairman of the history department at D'Youville College in Buffalo; two daughters, Jennifer, of Manhattan, and Elizabeth, of Buffalo; her father, Joseph Paradise of Rye, N.Y.; a sister, Judith Moskowitz of Manhattan, and a brother, Steven Paradise of Washington.
      
She is survived by two sons, Adam and Damon, of New York; a brother, Melvyn Harris of Chicago; a sister, Betty Zamore of Ventura, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      
Webster of Hackensack, N.J., and a sister, Helen W. Cook of Rego Park, Queens.
      
"
        One person who remembers her style particularly well is the decorator Sister Parish.
She was 45 years old and lived in Pelham, N.Y.
        She died of meningitis, her sister Kelly said.
Besides her husband, she is survived by three sons, John and Andrew, both lawyers, of Manhattan, and Blake, an architect, of Mansfield, Mass; a sister, Susan Winchester of Prides Crossing, Mass., and one granddaughter.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her father, Edward Burton, of Manhattan; a brother, James Burton, of Manhattan, and a sister, Lorraine Burton Koiner, of the Bronx.
      
Ms. Sullivan, who lived in Gainesville, Fla., is survived by her mother, C. Burnice Sullivan of Seattle; her father, Charles E. Sullivan of San Jose, Calif.; a sister, Charla Sullivan of Seattle, and four brothers, Steven Sullivan of Canoga Park, Calif., Patrick and K. C. Sullivan, both of Seattle, and Mike Sullivan of San Jose.
      

        Sister Frances Shanahan, a member of the Ursuline Order and a retired teacher, died on Friday at New Rochelle Hospital.
Sister Frances graduated from the College of New Rochelle in 1925 and entered the Ursuline Order in 1927.
She is survived by three sisters, Sister Elizabeth Shanahan, a member of the Congregation of Notre Dame; Sister Marguerite Shanahan and Sister Loretta Shanahan, both members of the Ursuline Order.
      
She is survived by three sisters, Sister Elizabeth Shanahan, a member of the Congregation of Notre Dame; Sister Marguerite Shanahan and Sister Loretta Shanahan, both members of the Ursuline Order.
      
She is survived by three sisters, Sister Elizabeth Shanahan, a member of the Congregation of Notre Dame; Sister Marguerite Shanahan and Sister Loretta Shanahan, both members of the Ursuline Order.
      
She is survived by her son, Leonardo, of Milan; a sister, Cristina, also of Milan, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Robert, she is survived by another son, Ward F., of Scottsdale, Ariz.; a daughter, Caroline Mark of Wausau, Wis.; a sister, Harriet Dickenson of Binghamton, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren, and 7 great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter Pamela, a law student at the University of Tulsa, Mrs. Brown is survived by another daughter, Victoria Anne Hunt of Charleston; a sister, Annabelle Brown of St. Albans, W. Va., and six grandchildren.
      

        Sister Martha Christine Eber, a Lutheran deaconess, died on Tuesday at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan.
Sister Eber, who was born in Pittsburgh, was consecrated in 1924.
Since 1957, Sister Eber was a deaconess at St. Luke's, helping the pastor, teaching Sunday school, visiting parish shut-ins and supervising the church office.
Besides her son, she is survived by a sister, Blanche Blum of Miami Beach, Fla.
      
; a sister, Jean Friendly of Washington; and six grandchildren.
      
"
        Miss King is survived by a brother, John, of Sahuar Rita, Ariz., and a sister, Lucile C. King of Cherry Hill, N.J.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Florence Britton of Mill Valley, Calif., Penelope Bardel of Manhattan and Marcia Sharp of Washington; a sister, Josephine Brayton of Boston, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Odette H. Rauch of Washington.
      
Casita Maria was founded in 1934 by Mrs. O'Keeffe and her sister Elizabeth as the first settlement in New York City for Hispanic people.
She is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Ridder of West Palm Beach, Fla.
      
She apparently had a heart attack after a fall, her sister, Anna Nalbantian, said.
Besides her sister, Ms. Balakian is survived by six nieces and nephews.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Farmington, Conn., Dr. Zaidens is survived by a sister, Isabel Levin of Manhattan.
      
; a sister, Alice D. Hoke of Mattepoisett, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband, Ralph, a retired drug abuse counselor; a sister, Stephanie Urdang of Stamford, Conn.; two stepdaughters, Sherri, of Southbury, Conn., and Dana, of New Milford, Conn.; a stepson, Anthony, of Seattle, and a grandson.
      
Besides her husband, who is the president of Metaform Inc., a design concern, Mrs. Masey is survived by a sister, Virginia Olinger of Worthington, Ohio.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Liberman is survived by a daughter, the writer Francine du Plessix Gray, of Warren, Conn., a sister, Lila Duchess of Caylus, France, and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her son, Robert, an astonomer, author and professor of earth sciences at Dartmouth College; a daughter, Dorothy Heller of Creston, N.C., and a sister, Yolanda Pesce, of Tucson.
      
She is survived by a son, Finn, of Andover, N.J., a brother, Abraham Resika of Manhattan; a sister, Lilian Kandel of the Bronx, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Gertrude B. Wilde of Milwaukee.
      
In addition to her brother, Miss Booth is survived by a sister, Betty Benson, and two stepdaughters, Judy Larson and Dixie Nelson.
      
She is survived by a sister, Irma Ullmann of Palm Beach, Fla.
      
She is survived by a sister, Janet Adams of Santa Fe, N. M.
      
; a daughter, Leah Ann , an intern at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston; her mother, Sadie Fuchs of the Bronx; a sister, Norma Resnick of Woodmere, L.I., and two brothers, Daniel Fuchs of Tenafly, N.J., and Leonard Fuchs of Armonk, N.Y.
      
"
        With equal ease, she also starred on the West End over the decades in such American hits as "The Man Who Came to Dinner" and "My Sister Eileen" through "The Pleasure of His Company" and "Toys in the Attic.
She also appeared in "The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone" (1961), "Dr. Crippen" (1964), "The Night of the Generals" (1967), "The Killing of Sister George" (1968) and "The Ruling Class" (1972).
She is survived by three sons, David, of San Francisco; Jairus, of Chicago, and Daniel, of Cambridge; a brother, Sidney Alpert, of San Diego; a sister, Sylvia Bernstein, of Lake Worth, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her brother Wolfgang, of Bayreuth, and a sister, Verena Lafferentz, of Uberlingen, Germany.
      
She died of congestive heart failure, said her sister, Wanda Horowitz of Manhattan.
Besides her sister, the widow of the pianist Vladimir Horowitz, she is survived by her daughter, Emanuela Castelbarco, and a grandson.
      
Miss Payne apparently died of natural causes on Tuesday and was discovered two days later, said her sister, Avis Johnson of San Diego.
She is survived by her sister.
      
; a sister, Gert Mass Unger of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, H. Clifford Page; a son, Ronald, of Burke, Va.; a daughter, Lois Drew of Manhattan; a sister, Alice LeGrand of Fair Lawn, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, of Kew Gardens, Queens, Mrs. Naaman is survived by her husband, Walter; her parents, Doris and William Davis of Plattekill, N.Y.; three brothers, Wilbert Davis of Manhattan and Robert and Frank Davis, both of Plattekill; a sister, Yvonne Ellis of San Diego; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Leo, a retired high school teacher, and a sister, Esther Giordiano of Floral Park, Queens.
      
She is survived by three stepdaughters, Helen Vishniac, a professor at Oklahoma State University; Joan Burns, a writer, of Williamstown, Mass., and Elizabeth Wurr, a psychologist, of Woodside, Calif.; a brother, Robert of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Pat Oldt of Little Switzerland, N.C.; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by a sister, Jacqueline Allison of Amagansett, L.I.
      
; a sister, Bonnie Gottlieb of Equinonk, Pa.; seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Jernigan is survived by her husband, the composer Philip Glass, a stepdaughter, Juliet, and a stepson, Zachary, all of Manhattan; her mother, Pauline Bauer of Jupiter, Fla., and a sister, Audrey Hart of Key West, Fla.
        A memorial service will be held at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue and 112th Street, on Friday at 1 P.M.
      
She is survived by her husband, Stanley R. Katz, the mayor of Deal; four sons, Richard, of West Long Branch, N.J., Steven, of Livingston, N.J., Robert, of Minneapolis, and Jonathan, of Tucson, Ariz.; a sister, Helen Rosengarten of Monmouth Beach, N.J., and 10 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Anna Filmer, of Albuquerque, N.M.
      
She is survived by three children from her first marriage: a daughter, Aileen Godsick of Manhattan, and two sons, Richard Lewisohn 3d of Manhattan and Clifford Lewisohn of Teaneck, N.J.; a sister, Anne F. Kohn of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
She died of a stroke, said her sister, Evelynne Abrams of Middletown, N.Y.
        Dr. Arkin, a native of Boston and a graduate of Tufts Medical School, was a founder in 1944 of the first psychoanalytic training program at the New York Medical College, where she was a faculty member for 24 years.
She is survived by two sons, Matthew, of Closter, and James, of Washington; her mother, Florence Aranov of Ridgewood, N.J., and a sister, Janet Bauer, of Ridgewood.
      
She died of pancreatic cancer, according to her sister, Louise Holmes of Riverside, Conn., her only surviving relative.
She is survived by a daughter, Alla Goldberg of Manhattan; a sister, Freyda of Dnepropetrovsk, U.S.S.R.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      

        Sister Elizabeth Cavanagh, a former vice president and dean of students at Manhattanvlle College in Purchase, N.Y., died on Sunday at Kenwood Convent of the Sacred Heart in Albany.
She died of bone cancer, Sister Mary Lyman said.
Before her death, Sister Cavanagh was director of pastoral care at San Jose Hospital in San Jose, Calif.
        She served as an administrator at Manhattanville from 1953 to 1968.
She is survived by a son, Charles M. Wyzanski of Cambridge, a daughter, Anita Robboy of Cambridge; a sister, Anita Warburg of Manhattan, and four granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a son, Charles M. Wyzanski, and a daughter, Anita Robboy, both of Cambridge; a sister, Anita Warburg of Manhattan, and four granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a sister, Grace F. Raymond of East Marion, L.I.
Mrs. Lutzker is survived by three sons, Michael, of New York City; Arthur, of Oakhurst, N.J., and Paul, of Washington; two brothers, David Levine of Margate, Fla., and Robert Levine of New York City; a sister, Miriam Gindin of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Lefcourt is survived by her husband of 26 years, Robert, of New York City; a daughter, Jenny; a son, Daniel; her mother, Marjorie Hoffman of New York City, and a sister, Elaine Hoffman Rattet of New Rochelle, N.Y.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Schapiro's survivors include a daughter, Jane G., also of Manhattan; a son, Robert A., of Columbia, Md., and a sister, Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum of United States District Court in Manhattan.
      
Her sister, Margaret Pollitzer Hoben, helped found the Walden School.
Mrs. Silberberg was a sister of the late Norman Cousins and is also survived by another brother, Robert Cousins, and her sister, Jean Middleton.
      
Mrs. Silberberg was a sister of the late Norman Cousins and is also survived by another brother, Robert Cousins, and her sister, Jean Middleton.
      
She is survived by a sister, Nancy Hudson of Jefferson City, and three stepdaughters, Nora Clark Bell of Allentown, Pa.; Phoebe Clark Kline of New Carrollton, Md., and Sara Clark Reeves of Alpine, N.J.
      
Mrs. Silberberg was a sister of the late Norman Cousins and is also survived by another brother, Robert Cousins, and her sister, Jean Middleton.
      
Mrs. Silberberg was a sister of the late Norman Cousins and is also survived by another brother, Robert Cousins, and her sister, Jean Middleton.
      
She is survived by a younger sister, Mabel, of St. Petersburg, who assisted in Dr. Seibert's research and lived with her.
      
In addition to her son Lawrence, she is survived by her husband, Bernard L. Gladieux Sr.; two other sons, Bernard Jr. of Gilbertsville, Pa., and Jay A. of New Canaan, Conn.; a brother, Lowell Skilliter of Toledo, Ohio; a sister, Lois Jones of Harrisburg, Va., seven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
Besides her husband she is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth of Meredith, N.H.; three sons, Mark of Fort Meyers, Fla., Peter of Hightstown, N.J., and David of Washington; her father, Walkley Ewing of Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, David Ewing of Winchester, Mass,; a sister, Elizabeth Purves of the Westchester town of Larchmont, and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Greenland is survived by her husband, Leo; two sons, Seth and Andrew; a sister, Yvette Rosenzweig, and a granddaughter, all of New York City.
      
Her companion was Frank Hopler of Cliffside Park, N.J.
        She is survived by a son, Brett Smith of Miami; two brothers, Bernard, of Leonia, N.J., and Drew, of Miami; a sister, Marjorie Smith of Miami, and a niece and two nephews.
      
Surviving in addition to her husband are their five children, Mark, of San Francisco; Mindi and Wendy, of Los Angeles; Carrie, of Seattle, and Deena Semler of Portland, Ore., and a sister, Joan Siewert of Lake Forest, Ill.
      
She is survived by her sister, Irene Hutton of Ossining, N.Y., and a stepdaughter, Linda Penny Luter Asherman of Manhattan.
      
Ms. Leentvaar is survived by her sister, Mildred, of Arnheim, the Netherlands.
      
She is survived by a son, Philip Gage Dibble, and a sister, Kathleen Gage Hutchison, both of Montreal.
      
Besides her brother, she is survived by a sister, Evelyn Simon Prell; two sons, Richard and Daniel; a daughter, Nancy, and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her sister, Charlotte Morse of Minneapolis, five nieces and three nephews.
      
Besides her father, survivors include her mother, Elizabeth, of Princeton; a daughter, Nina Gold of New York City; twin sons, Ethan Gold, a student at Harvard University, and Ari Gold, a student at Columbia University; a sister, Alexandria (Lucy) Nolan of Silver City, N.M., and two brothers, Charles D. Dilworth of San Francisco and Joseph R. Dilworth Jr. of Bronxville, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Kaye is survived by her daughter, a magazine and television journalist, and a sister, Rhoda Gamson of New York City.
; four daughters, Mary Ann Troedson of Jackson, Janet Bertino of Bozeman, Mont., Catherine, of Stevensville, Mont., and Ellen Draper of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a sister, Margaret Flinsch of White Plains; 23 grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
"I was the little sister," Miss Ginzburg replied.
She is survived by her sister, Carol Fox Sulzberger.
      
She is survived by a stepson, Roger Bohmrich of White Plains, and a sister, Adele Letcher Goddard of Sun City, Ariz.
      
She is survived by her husband, Donald; two sons, David, of Manhattan and Adam, of Kenova, W. Va., and a sister, Frances Edlitz of Rockville, Md.
      
She is survived by their daughters, Daria, who is institutionalized, and Christina Belmont of Paris; four grandchildren, and a sister, Patricia Byrne of Boynton Beach, Fla.
      
She is survived by her daughter; a sister, Katherine, of Manhattan; her step-son, Charles Wilson Kingsbury Jr., of Orlando, Fla., and three granddaughters.
      
She died of a heart attack after collapsing in her office, her sister, Vera Savoyka, said.
She is survived by her sister.
      
She is survived by a sister, Hazel Elizabeth Ring of Exeter; three brothers, Arthur, of Exeter, Charles, of Rye Beach, N.H., and Kenneth, of Southborough, Mass., and 17 nieces and nephews.
      
; a sister, Theda Wells of Woodmere, L.I., and two granddaughters.
      
She died of a heart attack, said her sister, Margit Cartwright of Northampton.
