She was 77 years old and lived in Southbury, Conn.
        She is survived by two daughters, Eleanor Roberts Lewis of Washington and Diane Raymond Kolinsky of South Glastonbury, Conn.; a sister, Olive M. Reid of Southbury, and two grandsons.
      
In addition to her sons, Mrs. Eiseman is survived by a sister, Eva Tankel, of Minneapolis, seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two sons, William, of Greenwich, a member of the Connecticut House of Representatives, and Martinus, of Juneau, Alaska; a brother, Sam Soames of London; a sister, J. S. Judd of Salisbury, Wiltshire, England; two stepsons, Judge Eugene H. Nickerson of Federal District Court in Brooklyn and Adam H. Nickerson of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I.
Mrs. Betzak is survived by a sister, Bella Shore of Forest Hills, N.Y., and a brother, Elias Margoles of Atlanta.
      
She is survived by a sister, Eleanor Smaridge of Huntington; a stepdaughter, Doris Waldeyer, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Bernard; a son, John, of Van Nuys, Calif.; a sister, Evelyn Blackstone of Tamarac, Fla.; and a brother, Robert Kraushaar of El Toro, Calif.
      
; her parents, John and Mae Hoffman of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and a sister, Jane Knaus.
Surviving are her husband and a sister, Hannah Gourary.
      
Surviving are a son, William Granger Blair of Manhattan, a reporter for The Times; a sister, Barbara Shepard of Menasha, Wis., and Carefree, Ariz., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Grinnell is survived by a brother, John R. Hoopes, of Sarasota, Fla.; a sister, Helen Lapp, of Hatboro, Pa.; a daughter, Nancy G. Barnum, of Washington; three sons, Robert S. Jr., of Guilderland, N.Y., Alexander, of New York City, and Lawrence I., of Waitsfield, Vt., and five grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Jules Feiffer, the cartoonist, of Manhattan; a sister, Alice Korman of East Meadow, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bryant is survived by her sister, Bessie Myers, of San Francisco, and her son, Otis V. Bryant Jr., of Sylmar, Calif.
      
She is survived by a sister, Betty Ann Healey of Belmar, N.J.
      
She is survived by her mother, Adelaide, of New Hyde Park, and a sister, Nancy Gordis of Ephrata, Pa.
      
''
        In addition to her son, she is survived by a sister, Mignonne; a daughter, Cappy Carey; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by her parents, Louis and Antonina, and by her sister, Jane, all of Lynbrook.
      
Surviving are her mother, Rita Manning of Gunnison, Colo.; a son, Tiger, of Stockholm; two daughters, Ann Gerschman and Marika Bergman, both of Manhattan; a brother, Paul Manning, also of Gunnison; a sister, Gwen Barry of Palo Alto, Calif., and a grandson.
      
Dr. Morris is survived by a sister, Lillian O'Connell of Holyoke.
      
Miss Behrend is survived by her sister, Ruth Hagedorn, of Gadsden, Ala.
      
'' Known as a character actress, she had roles in more than 50 films, including the ''Gidget'' movies, ''The Blue Gardenia,'' ''My Sister Eileen,'' ''My Man Godfrey,'' ''The Thief of Damascus,'' ''The Sweet Smell of Success'' and ''Tora, Tora, Tora.
''
        Miss Novak is survived by her sister, Jane, 2 daughters, 10 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Knowles is survived by a sister, Patricia K. Novak of Boston.
      
Surviving are a son, Russell H. Long of Manhattan; a daughter, Susan R. Lehman of San Francisco; a sister, Susan Bloom of Ganges, British Columbia, and a brother, Smith Bagley of Washington.
      
In addition to Senator Moynihan, she is survived by two sons, Michael of Washington, and Thomas J. Staplefield of Stamford, Conn.; a sister, Julia P. Noe of Louisville, Ky., and 10 grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her husband, William; a daughter, Diane, and a sister, Eunice Simon, of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by her sister, Dr. Mary S. Calderone of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Grant is survived by her husband; three sons, John of New Delhi, James D. of Fairfield, Iowa, and William of Washington, D.C.; a brother, Putnam Henck, and a sister, Anne Stewart, both of Sky Forest, Calif.; a sister, Katherine Lovell of Jakarta, Indonesia, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Grant is survived by her husband; three sons, John of New Delhi, James D. of Fairfield, Iowa, and William of Washington, D.C.; a brother, Putnam Henck, and a sister, Anne Stewart, both of Sky Forest, Calif.; a sister, Katherine Lovell of Jakarta, Indonesia, and two grandchildren.
      
Survivors are a brother, Richard, of Carmel, Calif., and a sister, Conna Bell Shaw, of Silver Spring, Md.
      
Among Miss Franklin's compositions were ''Gotta Find Me an Angel'' and ''Ain't No Way,'' both made into million-record sellers by her sister, Aretha.
She also arranged ''Take Another Little Piece of My Heart'' by Erma Franklin, another sister and singer, a song later made popular by Janis Joplin.
Miss Lake is survived by her sister, Queenie A. McFarland of Caldwell, N.J.
      
She is survived by two sons, Marco and Andy, her sister, Francesca, and her mother, all of Manhattan.
She is survived by six daughters, three sons, her mother, a brother, a sister and 13 grandchildren.
      
; two brothers, Edward McCarthy of Garden City, L.I., and Timothy McCarthy of Levittown, L.I., and a sister, Patricia Aldrich of Sparta.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jane Hughes Bergler of Danville, Calif.; a son, Dr. John, of Tucson; a sister, Lempi Pagnucco of Cincinnati, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Gifford is survived by two daughters: Tierney Gifford, and Mary-Elizabeth Berliner of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a son, Edwin Jr., and a sister, Stephanie Stone of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
      
Also surviving are two daughters, Robin Woods of Darien, Conn., and Elizabeth Phillips of Houston; a brother, Edward Steele of North Palm Beach, Fla.; a sister, Libby Rathbun of Palm Beach, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; two daughters, Daphne E. M. Nash of Oxford, England, and Marina Yedigaroff of London; a son, Audley George Burnett of London; her mother, Lady Malcolm Douglas-Hamilton of Manhattan; a sister, Mary-Chilton Winslow Mead of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      

       Sister Mary Celeste Beck, the president of Molloy College in Rockville Centre, L.I., until 1972, died Saturday at the Queen of the Holy Rosary residence in Amityville, L.I., after a long illness.
Sister Mary Celeste Beck, the president of Molloy College in Rockville Centre, L.I., until 1972, died Saturday at the Queen of the Holy Rosary residence in Amityville, L.I., after a long illness.
Sister Mary Celeste, who held a Ph.D. from St. John's University, was community supervisor of schools in the Brooklyn Diocese in 1962 when the trustees elected her president of what then was Molloy Catholic College for Women.
Sister Mary Celeste was the author of a textbook, ''Biology for High Schools,'' which became widely used around the country.
She is survived by a sister, Leticia Salomone of Mount Vernon.
      
Miss Soule's death leaves Sister Ethel Hudson, 92, and Eldress Bertha Lindsay, 90, as the last Shakers in a community that once numbered 400 men, women and children.
At age 11, she and her sister were placed with the Shaker community at Sabbathday Lake, Me., after the death of their mother.
Miss DeLeeuw, who often collaborated with her sister, Cateau De Leeuw, started her career as a librarian in Plainfield, where she conducted a story hour for children.
Ellen,'' ''The Barred Road,'' ''Hawthorne House'' and, with her sister, ''The Expandable Browns'' and ''Mickey the Monkey.
Miss Soule's death leaves Sister Ethel Hudson, 92, and Eldress Bertha Lindsay, 90, as the last Shakers in a community that once numbered 400 men, women and children.
At the age of 11, she and her sister were placed with the Shaker community at Sabbathday Lake, Me., after the death of their mother.
Surviving are her mother, Rose Agrin of Manhattan; a sister, Ruth Koban of West Palm Beach, Fla., and two sons, Edward and Louis, both of Manhattan.
      
Miss Adams is survived by a sister, Louise Adams Holland, of Philadelphia.
      
Ms. Buchanan is survived by a sister, Cherry Buchanan Thompson of Syracuse.
; a daughter, Dr. Katherine K. Treadway of Weston; a sister, Elizabeth Hudson of Dover, Del.
She is survived by her husband, Kenneth Thompson of Sacramento; a daughter, Barbara Jungerman of San Francisco; a son, Michael Hurley of Shingle Springs, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Tamara Wright of Seattle; stepsons, Nicolas Thompson of West Sacramento and Marcus Thompson of San Jose; a brother, Dr. Milton Shapson of Milwaukee; a sister, Phyllis Shapson of Los Angeles; and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her husband, Kenneth Thompson of Sacramento; a daughter, Barbara Jungerman of San Francisco; a son, Michael Hurley of Shingle Springs, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Tamara Wright of Seattle; stepsons, Nicolas Thompson of West Sacramento and Marcus Thompson of San Jose; a brother, Dr. Milton Shapson of Milwaukee; a sister, Phyllis Shapson of Los Angeles, and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her sister, Ruth Pelmas of Glastonbury, Conn., two nieces, a nephew, and an uncle, John Pope, professor emeritus of English at Yale University.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Ramsey is survived a brother and a sister.
      
Her sister, Lea Lake, died in April at 89 after having been a co-owner of Sweets since 1933, when their father died.
She is survived by her son, Sean, and her sister, Diana England of Lancaster, Pa.
      
She is survived by her husband, Herbert; four sons, Joseph, of Santa Monica, Calif., Daniel, of Boston, John, of Albuquerque, N.M., and Michael, of Briarcliff; a sister, Mimmy Harris of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a brother, Dick Porter of Upper Jay, N.Y., and one grandchild.
      
''
        Ms. Norden is survived by her husband, George Heselden, of London; a son, Michael Cole of Guernsey, in the Channel Islands,, and a sister, June Shipp of London.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alfred Prettyman; a daughter, Nina; two sons, Asa Hale, of Madison, Wis., and Emilio; a stepdaughter, Meryl Prettyman, and a stepson, Evan Prettyman, both of New York; her mother, Loretta Conwell, and a sister, Francine Conwell Brown, of Rochester.
Survivors include two daughters, Mary Harrell and Ruth Turpin, both of Long Beach; a sister, Edith Hardell of Morton Grove, Ill.; two brothers, Russel Pagenkopf of Carmichael, Calif., and Ray Pagenkopf of Alaska, and one granddaughter.
      

       Georgia Graham Sargeant, a former leading dancer in the Denishawn company in the 1920's and a sister of Martha Graham, the modern-dance pioneer, died Tuesday in Tucson.
Georgia Graham Sargeant, a former leading dancer in the Denishawn company in the 1920's and a sister of Martha Graham, the modern-dance pioneer, died Tuesday in Tucson.
Georgia Graham, however, danced with the Denishawn Dancers until 1928, sometimes performing in the roles created by Miss St. Denis or her sister.
''
        She is survived by her sister.
      
At the same time as Farida was divorced, King Farouk's sister, Queen Fawzia, described in the press as one of the world's most beautiful women, was divorced by the Shah of Iran, Mohammed Riza Pahlevi.
Born in Washington, Mrs. Lowry acted in B movies starting in 1923 and was the co-star with her sister, Priscilla Bonner, in ''Paying the Price'' (1927).
Mrs. Lowry is survived by her sister.
      
She is survived by her husband, Neale, who is director of the Seamen's Church Institute in Philadelphia; two sons, Jonathan and Thomas, both of Manhattan; a brother, Hedley G. Dimock, who lives in Ontario, and a sister, Dorothy Palfi of Michiana, Ind.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Joan, of Manhattan; a son, Ralph Jr., of London; a sister, Aileen Davis of Washington; a brother, Booker Harris of Hartford, and six grandchildren.
She is survived by her mother, Sadie Fink of the Bronx; a sister, Anita Berger of Providence, R.I.; a son, Matthew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Cindy, of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      
Also surviving are two daughters, Elise, of Manhattan, and Lori, of Brooklyn; a sister, Georgianna Sheldon of Bethesda, Md., and two brothers, Dr. Robert Steinman of Lancaster, Pa., and Richard Steinman of Portland, Me.
      
Surviving is a sister, Frances Crosby of Carmel, Calif.
      
She is survived by a sister, Koula Fotis of Fort Dodge, Iowa.
      
Surviving are her mother, Eva Komers Quint of Worcester, Mass., and a sister, Dr. Inge Broverman of Carpinteria, Calif.
      
She is survived by a brother, Stanley Gould of Deerfield Beach, Fla., and a sister, Betty Teitz of Newport, R.I.
      
She is survived by a son, Kelly, of Boston; two daughters, Jeanette Atkinson of Boston and Cynthia, of Washington; a sister, Helen Edey of Martha's Vineyard, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by a son, Alexander; her mother, Nettie Levy of West Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Marilyn Cohen of New City, N.Y.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Barbara Sprogell Jacobson, of New Hope, Pa., and Manhattan; a sister, Mildred Scott Olmsted, of Rose Valley; six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      

       Sister Catharine Marie O'Brien, a former chief executive of the College of Mount St. Vincent, died Tuesday at the Convent of Mary the Queen in Yonkers, where she lived.
Sister Catharine Marie O'Brien, a former chief executive of the College of Mount St. Vincent, died Tuesday at the Convent of Mary the Queen in Yonkers, where she lived.
Sister Catharine ran Mount St. Vincent, a small Catholic women's school in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, from 1937 to 1963.
Correction:  December 16, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary yesterday about Sister Catharine Marie O'Brien, former president of the College of Mount St. Vincent, characterized the colleg incorrectly.
Ms. Sherover-Marcuse is survived by a sister, Yeshi Neumann of Oakland.
      
She is survived by a brother, William, of Bradford, R.I., and a sister, Carol Virginia Witkowski of Detroit.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Jill, and a son, Stephen, both of Manhattan; her mother, Ida Berger, and a sister, Jean Chimsky, both of Cincinnati, and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Ordover, an editor and publisher of paperback books, is also survived by a sister, Nancy Levin of Los Angeles.
      
