She is survived by a son, James J., also of Columbia; a daughter, Jean Rosenberg of Middlebury, Vt.; a sister, Emily Jack of Washington; and three grandchildren.
In addition to Ms. Zeig, who lives in Tucson and Manhattan, Ms. Wittig is survived by her mother, Maria Wittig, and her sister, Gilberte, both of Paris.
Her husband, Lawrence K. Miller, who was editor and publisher of The Berkshire Eagle in Pittsfield, died in 1991, after 58 years of marriage,
        Her survivors include a daughter, Margo Miller of Boston; three sons, Kelton II, of Shaftsbury, Vt., and Michael and Mark, both of Pittsfield; a sister, Margery Adams of Charlotte, N.C.; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her twin sister, Bertha Freeman of Miami; a brother, David Feinberg of West Palm Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Frances Linderman of Trinidad, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Henry, of London and Carl, of Frankfurt; a daughter, Deborah Ramsden of Woodstock, N.Y.; two grandchildren; and a sister, Elizabeth Trace of Peekskill, N.Y.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Tarlow is survived by her son, Cody, a student at the University of California at Santa Cruz; her younger sister, Jamie Anderson, of Westwood, Mass.
Dr. Davis is survived by her husband of 47 years, Dr. Walter Adam Wichern Jr., chairman emeritus of surgery at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center; a son, Walter A. III, and a daughter, A. Logan Wichern, both of Manhattan; and a sister, Carol Goodman of Morristown, N.J.
      
She also is survived by two grandsons, two stepsons, three grandchildren and a sister.
      
She is survived by a sister, Joanna Maure Davis, of San Francisco, and a brother, Adam, of Lancaster, Pa.
      
; and her sister, Lee Naffz, of Leavenworth, Wash.
      
Her survivors include three brothers, a sister and a daughter, Lisa, a singer and actress known professionally as Simone who is currently appearing on Broadway in ''Aida.
Ms. Torrey is survived by her mother, Ella Russell Torrey of Philadelphia; a sister, Elizabeth L. Torrey of Washington; and a brother, L. Russell Torrey of Villanova, Pa.
She is survived by a sister, Clementina Kro of Israel; three brothers, Walter Oppenheimer of Germany, Asher Oppenheimer of Israel and John Ormond of Piedmont, Calif.; two grandsons; and two great-grandsons.
      
Ms. Collins is survived by a brother, Earnest, of Fort Worth, and a sister, Betty Wilkerson of Pasadena, Calif.
Ms. Ford said she was simply staggered when the famed model Dorian Leigh, Miss Parker's oldest sister, introduced her to Suzy, then 15.
In addition to Mr. Nelkin, she is survived by a daughter, Lisa Nelkin of Baltimore; a sister, Nancy Wolfers of London; and a granddaughter.
She is survived by her husband, Ira Weissman; a stepson, Michael; four brothers; and a sister.
      
''
        Miss Hepburn is survived by a brother, Dr. Robert H. Hepburn, and a sister, Margaret H. Perry, both of Canton, Conn.; four nieces; and nine nephews.
Besides her son David, of Venice, Calif., and Manhattan, she is survived by another son, Nicholas, of Princeton, N.J.; a sister, Eleanor Sheldon of Studio City, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Koch went to work in the family store and learned to fit bras from her husband's sister.
She had a long illness, said her sister, Sheila Cole.
In addition to her sister, Sheila Cole of Sonoma, Calif., Mrs. Fischbach's survivors include her husband, Herbert X. Fischbach of Sonoma; sons Peter, of St. Petersburg, Fla., John, of New Orleans, and James, of Phoenix; a daughter, Sally Fischbach-Willard of Geneva, Switzerland; and grandchildren.
Intent on earning teaching credentials, she traveled to Paris with her younger sister, Khieu Thirith.
Khieu Thirith, the outgoing if less studious sister, married Ieng Sary, who was part of the brain trust under Pol Pot, then known by his given name, Saloth Sar.
They became the most public members of the short-lived Communist government, while Khieu Ponnary was largely invisible, housed separately from Pol Pot and put under the care of her sister.
She lived with her sister and brother-in-law in Pailin, where they were granted amnesty by the Cambodian government, after a major defection from Pol Pot and the remaining Khmer Rouge in 1996.
      
Her husband, children and 11 grandchildren survive her, as well as her brother, Robert Warner, and her sister, Barbara Hipple.
At first she followed conventional naturalistic forms, in ''The Box Garden'' (1977), about the unmarried sister of the protagonist in ''Small Ceremonies''; in ''Happenstance'' (1980), a pair of complementary novellas, one narrated by a wife, the other by her husband; and in ''A Fairly Conventional Woman'' (1982), about a woman who chooses her marriage over an extramarital affair.
An intuitive musician with perfect pitch, she learned the instrument at first by imitating what she heard at an older sister's piano lessons.
''
        Ms. Tureck is survived by a sister, Sonya Goldsmith, of Pittsburgh, and two nephews, Dr. Alan Bramowitz, of Pittsburgh, and Dr. Stewart Bramson, of Grasonville, Md.
; and a sister, Mary Ann Lazarus of St. Louis.
      
Mrs. Matthau is survived by her two sons, Charles, known professionally also as Charlie Matthau, of Manhattan, and Aram Saroyan of Los Angeles; a sister, Elinor Pruder of Brooklyn; and three grandchildren.
Correction:  July 26, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on Thursday about Carol Matthau, who wrote of her life among Hollywood and literary celebrities, misstated the residence of her surviving sister, Elinor Dee Pruder.
Besides her husband, whom she married in 1979, she is survived by a sister, Dr. Ruth Rappaport, of Radnor, Pa.
      
The cause was pneumonia, said her sister, Ruth Daziel of Milford, Conn.
        Ms. Chase had just graduated from the College of Wooster in Ohio when she was hired as a research assistant by Dr. Alfred D. Hershey, a biologist who was investigating how viruses replicate.
Married briefly in the late 1950's, she is survived by her sister.
      
Her mother died when she was 10 and her only sibling, a sister, when she was 17.

        Yousra Abdel Raouf al-Kidwa, the sister of Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, died at the Palestine Hospital in Cairo today after a month of treatment for various disorders associated with old age, said the Palestinian ambassador to the Arab League, Muhammad Sobeih.
A spokeswoman for her sister, the Duchess of Devonshire, told the BBC, ''We can confirm that she died peacefully, but we cannot say any more than that.
Unity, another sister, became a fanatical fascist, befriended Hitler and was so distraught when Britain entered World War II that she shot herself in the head, botching the suicide attempt but suffering extensive brain damage.
Deborah, another sister, married the Duke of Devonshire, one of the best catches in all of British bachelorhood.
She reconciled with her sister Nancy, nursing her through the cancer that led to Nancy's death in 1973, and made peace with some, but by no means all, of her other relatives.
She is survived by a far-flung extended family, including the Duchess of Devonshire, her last surviving sister; four sons, two by each of her husbands; and a large number of grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
After her discharge, she visited her sister in Los Angeles.
In addition to him, Mrs. Borsten is survived by a son, Joseph Borsten of Los Angeles; a daughter, Joan Borsten Vidov of Los Angeles; a sister, Lillian Minkowski of Santa Cruz; and a grandson.
      
She is survived by a brother, Fouad Younes, of Cairo, and a sister, Nahed Fouad, of London.
      
She is survived by her husband, John B. Henderson of Piedmont and Miami; her children from her first marriage, Richard Arango of Miami and Virginia Arango of Raleigh, N.C.; a sister, Carol Jane Gottfried of Miami; a brother, Jordan Dancer of Scottsdale, Ariz.; and two grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include a brother, William Marlow, of Arlington, Va., and a sister, Joan Marlow Foley, of Schoolcraft, Mo.
      
In addition to Ms. Downs, of Newport Beach, Calif., she is survived by a son, Mac Shuttleworth; a brother, George La Fleche; a sister, Janine Helzer; and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Murie is survived by her sister Louise Murie-MacLeod of Jackson, Wyo., who was the wife of Olaus's brother Adolph, who was a National Park Service biologist and an author; two sons, Martin, of North Bangor, N.Y., and Donald, of Palm Springs, Calif.; a daughter, Joanne Miller of Brookline, Mass.
Her eldest sister, Soong Ai-ling, directed the family's affairs and innumerable money-making ventures with the help of her husband, H. H. Kung, a scion of one of China's wealthiest banking families.
Madame Chiang's second sister, Soong Qing-ling, was the wife of Sun Yat-sen, China's first president after the last emperor was toppled in 1911.
She moved in with a sister in Brooklyn and soon she was making $300 a week.
Among other educational activities, the foundation published a book by Mr. Marx, a 1986 Pulitzer Prize-winner, called ''It Gets Dark Sometimes: My Sister's Fight to Live and Save Lives'' (Jam Publishing, 2000).
She is survived by a daughter, Linda Smith; a sister, Gloria Chadima of Minneapolis; four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Charles Thomas, of San Diego; a sister, Frances Martin, of St. Louis; and eight grandchildren.
      
Ms. Ruderman is survived by her mother, who lives in Manhattan; her father, Robert, of Manhattan; her stepmother, Vicki Fian of Manhattan; her sister, Leigh Roumila of Ridgewood, N.J.; and her brothers, Jamie, of Maplewood, N.J., and Adam, of Manhattan.
She is survived by her sister, Kathryn Michel, of Washington; two daughters, Gregg Deane Swain and Kathryn Deane-Krantz, both of New York; two sons, Disque D. Deane Jr., of Buenos Aires, and Walter Longstreet Deane, of New York; and six grandchildren.
      
Besides Mr. Sheer, her husband of 33 years, Ms. Evans is survived by a son, Jonathan, of Tokyo; her mother, Kay Pierce of Columbus, Ohio; a sister, Judy Thompson, also of Columbus; and a brother, James Evans of Richmond, Va.
      
With the help of her sister Margaret, she designed a two-piece bathing suit that would not drag in the water, yet would be ''decent in case I failed and they had to drag me out,'' she said.
In addition to her children, she is survived by her sister, Rose Scarafoni Millerick of Sonoma; 12 grandchildren; and 7 great-grandchildren.
The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or A.L.S., as Lou Gehrig's disease is formally known, her sister Valerie Estess said.
Some new approaches may help those with related conditions, like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's, as well as brain and spinal cord injury, her sister said.
In addition to her sister Valerie, who lives in Manhattan, Ms. Estess is survived by her mother, Marilyn R. Estess, of Rye, N.Y.; her other sisters, Alison Estess of Manhattan and Meredith Hulbert of Harrison; and her brother, Noah, of San Diego.
      
'' By then, there were two daughters, as well as her sister's child, whom the Stevensons treated as their own.
Mrs. Pinkett is survived by her husband, William, whom she married in the late 1950's, and a sister, Loretta Glover.
      
