Besides her son, she is survived by a sister, Amanda Clapperton-Blake  of London.
      
Miss Delany and her younger sister, Dr. A. Elizabeth (Bessie) Delany, were always celebrated in Harlem, where they lived and flourished from 1916 to 1957, after leaving their native Raleigh, N.C.
        Dr. Delany, who received her doctorate in dental surgery from Columbia in 1923, was the second black woman licensed to practice dentistry in New York State.
''She is my right arm,'' Miss Delany had told an interviewer shortly before her sister's death.
''
        ''Sadie is molasses without even trying,'' her sister once said.
Toward the end of her life, Sadie Delany did not want anybody to think that she and her sister were just a couple of old women letting life slip by as they sat in their rocking chairs.

        Frances Godowsky, a prolific painter and sometime singer better known as George and Ira's little sister, Frankie Gershwin, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Frequently summoned to George's lair on the fifth floor, she was often the first to sing Gershwin songs that would later be Broadway hits, and when George was in rehearsal for ''Lady Be Good,'' brother and sister would try out steps he had learned from the show's star, Fred Astaire.
In time, Mrs. Godowsky was glad enough to accept the benefits of being his beloved little sister.
Correction:  January 27, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary last Wednesday about Frances Gershwin Godowsky, an artist and the sister of George Gershwin, misstated the nationality of her father-in-law, the pianist Leopold Godowsky.
Her survivors include a sister, Dolly Cheser of Rockville Centre, L.I., and five nieces and one nephew.
      
In addition to her brother Ira, of Fairfield, Conn., she is survived by another brother, David, of Wanaque, N.J., and a sister, Miriam, of Delray Beach, Fla.
      
She is survived by a sister, Rosemary Minsky of Los Angeles.
      
She went to school with half the merchants in the village, and her 53-year-old sister, Donna, with the other half.
Later, with her sister, she owned a graphic design business.
She is survived by her husband, Gene; a daughter, Jill; two sons, Brian and Tim, and a sister, Renee Cohen.
      
Mrs. Huckaby is survived by a sister, Clara Doyle, of Danville, Calif., and a brother, Clifton Paisley, of Tallahassee, Fla.
        Mrs. Huckaby, who did not consider herself a social crusader, would recall having told Daisy Bates of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Arkansas that ''since my field was education, my immediate goal was having the black children in school as just ordinary children.
Dr. Peplau is survived by a sister, Bertha Reppert, of Mechanicsburg, Pa., and a foster brother, John D. Forster, of Reading.
      
For that, Miss Bloch, who is survived by two sons, George Ernst Dimitroff of Tumwater, Wash., and Pancho Dimitroff of Aurora, Colo; a daughter, Sita Milchev, of Gualala; a sister, Suzanne Bloch Smith of New York; 8 grandchildren and 6 great-grandchildren, had only herself to blame.
The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, Doris Pfeffer of Manhattan.
Besides her sister, she is survived by two former husbands, Jerry Fishman and Carroll Calkins.
      
; a son, Norman Rogers of West Brattleboro; a stepdaughter, Jean Rogers of Provincetown, Mass; a sister, Alice Dunn of Big Arm, Mont.
Mr. Handelsman said that on her recent book-promotion visit to New York, his sister seemed confused and forgetful, possibly presaging her fatal stroke.
She is survived by her sister, Ruth Zia, of Columbus; two sons, Samuel, of Columbus and Daniel, of New York City; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
She was the author of a French book on modern dance, ''La Danse Artistique aux U.S.A.''
        Baroness de Rothschild is survived by a brother, Guy, of Paris, and a sister, Jacqueline Piatigorsky of Los Angeles.
In addition to her husband and sons, she is survived by her relatives in England: her mother, of Bath; her sister, Lois Stuart-Black of London, and her brother, Dr. Grant Kelly of West Sussex.
''
        Dr. Payne, who is survived by a sister, Violet Russell of Seattle, and a nephew, said that, in the end, the appointment did not change her life.
She is survived by a sister, Dorothy Sloan of Vancouver, British Columbia.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, the publisher Bernard Geis; two sons, Peter, of La Honda, Calif., and Stephen, of Geneva; a sister, Jean S. Gottlieb of Fort Myers Beach, Fla.; eight grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Surviving are a sister, Tomi Fujita, and a nephew, Walter Fujita, both of Los Angeles.
      
Her sister Eunice became Lorayne, and Kathleen decided to call herself Patricia.
Her sister Patricia died in 1988 and Lorayne in 1993.
She is survived by two daughters, Claudia Petursson of Kirkland, Wash., and Alison Tunney of Santa Monica; a son, Andrew Weiss of Los Angeles; a sister, Patricia Troop of London, and six grandchildren.
      
Besides her brother, of Kent, Conn., she is survived by her daughter, Nina Lourie, of Tiverton; her mother, Flora Lewis, of Paris, foreign affairs columnist for The International Herald Tribune, and a sister, Kerry Gruson of Miami.
      
Ms. Boutelle is survived by three sons, Christopher, of Los Angeles, William, of West Chesterfield, Mass., and Jonathan of Santa Cruz; a sister, Mary Holmes of Santa Cruz, and six grandchildren.
      
Senator Lipman's survivors include her daughter, Karyne Anne Lipman of Atlanta, and a sister, Eloise Ransome of Virginia.
      
She is survived by their son, Michael, of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Susan Emma Clurman of Manhattan and Carol Mae Duning of Alexandria, Va., and a sister, Ellen Schwartz of Waco, Tex.
      
; a brother, Theodore H. Sheafe of Tigard, Ore.; a sister, Mary S. Jewett of Lyme, Conn.; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
'' But producers were reluctant to free her from type-casting, prompting her to deplore her repetitious roles as ''the girl of the gangster, then the sister who was bringing up the gangster, then later the mother of the gangster, and they always had me ironing somebody's shirt.
The cause was cancer, according to her sister, Constance Zonka of Chicago.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Wendy White-Tomson, and a brother, James, both of Kent, England.
      
In addition to her husband and her son Henry, who lives in Washington, she is survived by two other children, Nancy Carlson of St. George, Vt., and Michael Richardson of Upper Montclair, N.J.; a sister, Mary Conrad of Albuquerque, N.M.; two brothers, T. P. Hazard Jr. of Rockville, Md., and Oliver C. Hazard of Bedford, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      
Two days after Mr. Pizarro vanished, Mrs. Sierra and her children moved in with a sister, Adrina Sierra, whose support allowed her the time to search for her husband and work with the Association for the Relatives of the Detained-Disappeared.
In addition to her sister, Mrs. Sierra is survived by her son, Waldo Pizarro Jr. of Santiago; two daughters, Lenia Pizarro and Lorena Pizarro, both of Santiago, and eight other brothers and sisters.
In addition to her son John, of Greenwich, Conn., Mrs. Lindsey is survived by her son Alexander of Seattle; a sister, Cynthia Saint-Amand of New York, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, John Malcolm Stewart of Lancaster, Calif.; a sister, Ruby Birdson, and three grandchildren.
      

        Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, whose marriage to John F. Kennedy Jr. catapulted her and her understated glamour to fame, was reported lost and presumed dead on a flight Friday to Martha's Vineyard, Mass., along with her husband and her sister Lauren Bessette.
''She still had plenty to do to adjust to being Mrs. John F. Kennedy Jr.''
        Correction:  July 20, 1999, Tuesday  The obituary of Carolyn Bessette Kennedy yesterday misidentified the college from which her sister Lauren graduated.
Her sister June married Mr. Cash in 1968 after the family helped bring him back to stability after a period of drug abuse.
Anita's sister Helen died last summer, and June recently released an intimate, homemade solo album, ''Press On.
Perrot is survived by her mother, Consuella Perrot, two brothers, Craig Perrot and Kevin Perrot, and a sister, Loretta Williams.
      
She is survived by three sons, Neil, Leslie and Daniel Fishman, all of Manhattan; a sister, Mimi Inorio of Clinton, Conn., and her companion, Jack Talan of Manhattan.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Harvey Shultz, of Hackensack, N.J., and a daughter, Barbara Brocklehurst, of Franklin Lakes, N.J., both from a previous marriage; a brother, Jack Inwood, of Paramus, N.J.; a sister, Florence Schiffman, of Tamarac, Fla., and three grandchildren.
Besides her husband, Ms. O'Leary is survived by two daughters, Glynis O'Leary and Abigail O'Leary, both of McLean; her father, Boniface Brazaitis, and a sister, C. B. Lovell, both of Columbia, Md.
      
; a sister, Ann Rountree Forsberg of Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, Calvin Rountree of Hayesville, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      
Ms. Hansen's husband died in 1980; she is survived by a sister, Else Thomasen of Denmark.
      
She is survived by a sister, Bernice Woll of Larchmont, N.Y., two nephews, two nieces and four grand-nieces.
      
In addition to her son, of Berkeley, she is survived by a sister, Paula H. Gould of New York, and two granddaughters.
      
Mrs. Exner is survived by a son, David Bohrer; two brothers, Allen and Fred Immoor; and a sister, Joan Collingwood.
Miles is survived by a daughter, the actress Joanna Miles; a grandson, Miles Brandman, and a sister, Kitty Daffron of Florida.
      

        Marilyn Silverstone, who left a career as a top photographer for the simple life of a Buddhist nun with the name Ngawang Chodron, died of cancer in a monastery near Katmandu last Tuesday, her sister Susan Darer said.
Besides Ms. Darer, she is survived by another sister, Barbara S. Garrison.
Mrs. Durufle is survived by her sister, Elaine Chevalier, a solfege teacher and choral conductor in Paris.
Ms. Manzoni is survived by her husband, Michael G. Hron; two stepsons, Benjamin and Jonathan, and a sister, Susan Klimpl, also of Chicago.
      
Dr. Weitzman is survived by two sons, Donald, of Brookline, Mass., and David, of Orinda, Calif.; a sister, Frances Pasmanick of Washington; two brothers, Harold Cohen of Arlington, Va., and Norman Cohen of Venice, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Charles Blunden, her mother, Winifred Kilborn, and a sister, Carol Ann Shockley, all of Dayton; a son, Derek, of Charleston, W. Va., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Elizabeth St. Almond of Jacksonville, Fla.; two stepdaughters, Judy Hofmann Richter of Bedford, N.Y., and Carol Hofmann Thompson of Colts Neck, N.J.; a stepson, Robert F. Fehlhaber of Fort Lauderdale, Fla; and two stepdaughters, Chris Fehlhaber McGuire of Vero Beach, Fla., and Julie Fehlhaber Flavell of Fort Lauderdale.
She is survived by her mother, Rosalee Washington, and a sister, Rose Washington, both of Manhattan.
; a sister, Princess Genevieve di San Faustino of San Francisco; and 12 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Burton P. Resnick of Rye, N.Y., and Ira Resnick of Manhattan; a daughter, Marilyn Katz of Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Anna Sherman of Yonkers; 10 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren.
      
The couple adopted a daughter in 1950, the sister of a worker killed by police during a strike in Modena.
