She is survived by a sister, Margaret C. Schweinhaut, also of Kensington.
      

        Tatiana C. Bouteneff, who taught French and Russian at the Nightingale-Bamford School in Manhattan for 37 years and who was long prominent in efforts to raise money for White Russian causes in New York, died on Jan. 15 at her sister's home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 69 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Cornwall, N.Y.
Mrs. Bouteneff is survived by their son, Archpriest Sergei C. Bouteneff of Trumbull, Conn., rector of St. George Albanian Orthodox Church; a daughter, Dr. Marina Koulomzin of North Tarrytown, N.Y.; a sister, Vera C. Bouteneff; a brother, Dr. Eugene S. Troubetzkoy of Hastings-on Hudson, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, Mrs. Niebuhr is survived by a son, Richard, of Stockbridge; a sister, Barbara Moravec of Sutton, England, and three grandsons.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her sister, Karin Brown.
In addition to her sister, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Julia, who now heads the English Theater; her mother, Anna K. Brinkmann of Delray Beach, Fla.; a brother, Klaus Brinkmann of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Her sister, Elinor Downs, said the cause was cardiac arrest.
Dr. Fosdick, who never married, mainly, her sister suggested, because she never found a man her equal, later confided to friends that she did not think Stevenson had the gumption to be President.
As Mrs. Downs put it, recalling that her sister had turned down repeated offers to become an ambassador or college president: ''She had no personal ambition.
She is survived by her husband, Charles, of Manhattan; a son, Peter, of Telluride, Colo.; a daughter, Susan of Goleta, Calif.; three grandchildren; a brother, E. Morris Hayes, and a sister, Marian Hayes Miller of San Francisco.
Mr. Cohan is survived by her daughter, Leslie Cohan of New York; a sister, Felice Hurwitz; a brother-in-law, Brian Hurwitz, and a nephew, Jesse Hurwitz, all of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and her former husband, Ronald Cohan of New York.
      
She is survived by her sister, Gloria Diemer, and her brother, Charles Courtright.
She is survived by her sister, Gloria Diemer, and her brother, Charles Courtright.
She is survived by her husband, Alvin M. Katz, her sons, Joseph and Jamie, and her sister Sara Blackburn.
She is survived by her husband, Robert Pryor; two children, Shannon and Ben; a sister, Shannon Snapp Natale of Boston, and her mother, Auntrenette Snapp of Roanoke, Va.
      
Besides Mr. Koplowitz, she is survived by a son, William, and a daughter, Alexandra, both of New York City, and a sister, Lillian Katell of Carlsbad, Calif.
      
Besides Mr. Claster of Los Angeles and Mrs. Bell, of Baltimore, Mrs. Claster is survived by another daughter, Candace Claster; a brother, Robert Goldman, and a sister, Sue Baker, all of Baltimore, and four grandchilden.
In addition to her son, Ms. Kravis is survived by a daughter, Kimberly R. Kravis, and a sister, Sharon Beckerman, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a sister, Helga Hadsall, of Eugene.
      
Besides her husband and her son Don, of Studio City, she is survived by two other sons, John, of Santa Monica, and Tom, of Burbank, and a sister, Mary Jane O'Brien of West Covina.
      
; a sister, Miriam Heins of Ann Arbor, Mich., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Anne Murphy of Manhattan.
      
Dr. Hedges is survived by her husband, Dr. William L. Hedges; a daughter, Marietta, and a son, James L., both of San Francisco; a sister, Dorothy Faye of Greenwich, Conn., and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband of 14 years, Morton Goldsen; a son, Terrell Foster, of San Francisco; three stepchildren; six stepgrandchildren, and a sister, Beverly Tate of Far Rockaway.
      
Once she recalled that she was 14 when an older sister took her to a theater-nightclub in Athens, where she was urged to sing in a talent show.
She was forced to return to Berlin when the Nazis imposed currency restrictions on Jews, but she reached Britain in 1938 and followed her sister to the United States in 1940, settling in New York City.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her husband of 54 years, Maj. H. J. Wolanin; another brother, Martin Borror of Tucson, Ariz., and a sister, Florence Lewis of Quenemo, Kan.
      
Jacobs is survived by her companion, Virginia Gurnee; a sister, Jean Jacobs Gross of Oakland, Calif.; a niece, Wendy Moore, and three great nieces.
      
She is survived by her companion, Jane Barton, and a sister, Mary Miserendino of Convent Station, N.J.
      
She worked for the Treasury Department in Washington and met her future husband when she substituted for her older sister on a blind date.
; Frederic Jennings Truslow of Washington, and John Taylor Howell 3d of Washington Crossing; two daughters, Elizabeth Truslow Russell of Cold Spring Harbor, and Sophia Day LaVerdiere Truslow of Brooklyn; a stepdaughter, Shirley Howell Caracciolo of Rome; a sister, Laura Jennings Ingraham of Hanover, N.H.; 13 grandchildren, and 4 great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Stillwell is survived by two sons, Roy and Guy, and a daughter, Dadie, all of the Big Bend region; a sister, Glen Harris of Presidio; 9 grandchildren; 15 great-grandchildren and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
      
Judge Taylor is survived by her husband, William L., a civil rights lawyer; two daughters, Lauren Taylor of Silver Spring, Md., and Debbie Taylor of San Francisco; a son, David Van Taylor of Brooklyn; her mother, Alice Rosen, also of Brooklyn; a sister, Carole Lachman of Staten Island, and a granddaughter.
      
Her survivors include a sister, Ann Little of Chagrin Falls, Ohio.
Survivors include her husband of 55 years; a son, Michael, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a daughter, Marjorie Helmling, and a sister, Margaret Moran, both of Detroit; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
She was a trustee of Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., Smith College, the Greenwich Country Day School and the Gunnery, in Washington, Conn.
        She is survived by a sister, Katherine Scranton Rozendaal of Schenectady, N.Y.; a brother, William W. Scranton, the Governor of Pennsylvania from 1963 to 1967; five children, Ellen S. Linen and Marion M. Dawson Carr, both of Greenwich, Jonathan S. Linen of Summit, N.J., Christopher T. Linen of Redding, Conn., and Worthington W. Linen of Manhattan, and 14 grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, George Tannenbaum of Montgomery, Ala., and a sister, Ruth Deroux of San Diego.
With her sister, Nona Balakian, a literary critic and an editor at The New York Times Book Review, she was part of a literary circle that included the playwright William Saroyan and the diarist Anais Nin.
She is survived by two sons, Roy, of Newark, Del., and Edward, of Marlboro, Vt.; a daughter, Peggy Lopata of Francestown, N.H.; five grandchildren; a brother, Philip Good of Somers, N.Y., and a sister, Esther Goffman of Houston.
      
''
        Ms. Merrill was born in Cologne, Germany, and came to the United States in 1939 with her parents and sister.
She is survived by her sister, Anjelica Wender of Manhattan, and her brother, Hervey, of Rochester.
She is survived by her sister, Frances Fenig of Miami Beach, Fla.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Sallie Tennant, of Bradenton; a son, Ricardo Dellera, of Hawaii; a sister, Josephine Staral, of Barrington, Ill., two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Munk is survived by two brothers, Dr. Peter Munk and Dr. Klaus Munk, and a sister, Dr. Rosemarie Hoffman, all of Berlin.
      
Mrs. Mindell, whose husband, Joseph, died last year, is survived by a sister, Sarah Weisman of Phoenix.
      
Her sister Elaine Dundy, the novelist and biographer, said Miss Clarke entered the center, a hospice, after a stroke two weeks ago.
In addition to Ms. Dundy, who lives in Los Angeles, she is survived by another sister, Betty Lorwin of Brooklyn, and a daughter, Wendy, a video artist who also lives in Los Angeles.
The next day, Ms. Dundy described the gathering to their sister Betty, who replied, ''It's so like a film Shirley would make.
She appeared with Sister Sledge and the Pointer Sisters, as well as tap groups that included Jane Goldberg's Changing Times Tap company.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Edward; a son, Renell Gonsalves of Detroit; a daughter, April Browne of Queens, and a sister, Marquita Gove of Los Angeles.
As her health deteriorated over the past year, Mother Teresa stepped aside and her order, the Missionaries of Charity, chose a new leader, Sister Nirmala, in March.
One day in 1952, as her longtime associate Sister Agnes recalled years later, ''she found an old woman dying in the streets.
''
        ''We tried to get someone to take her to a hospital,'' Sister Agnes said, ''but before we could, she died.
Although Miss Blane's career never equaled that of her sister Loretta Young, over four decades she acted in a wide variety of films, appearing with stars including W. C. Fields, Wallace Beery, Barbara Stanwyck, Randolph Scott and Joel McCrea.
Her older sister, Polly Ann Young, was also an actress.
Her other sister, Gretchen, became Loretta.
All three sisters and their half sister, Georgiana Young, were in ''The Story of Alexander Graham Bell'' with Don Ameche in 1939.
She is survived by a son, Michael Andersen of San Francisco; a brother, Harold, of Orlando, Fla., and a sister, Dolores Clausen Brockmeyer of Sarasota, Fla.
      
In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a son, Jeffrey Jablow of the Bronx; a sister, Gloria Eisner of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      
Survivors in addition to her husband include three daughters, Elizabeth Earls and Jane Dickerson, both of Washington, and Ann Pullion of Villanova, Pa.; and two sons, Michael Dickerson of Atlanta, Ga., and John Dickerson of Washington, and a sister, Mary Ellen Phillip of Milwaukee.
She is survived by two sons, David S. Gottesman of Manhattan and Milton M. Gottesman of Washington; two brothers, Harold Garfunkel of Manhattan and Julian Garfunkel of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a sister, Florence Roswell of Manhattan; three grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Marie Buley of Seaford, N.Y.; her brother, of Naples, Fla.; 8 nieces and nephews, and 13 great-nieces and great-nephews.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Titia Dick Ellis of Santa Fe, N.M.; a son, Edison W., of Washington; a sister, Marion Hodgkins of Lake Forest, Ill.; 9 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters from her first marriage, Coco Ramirez Morris of Sarasota, Fla., and Ketty Pelaez and Tina Ramirez, both of Manhattan; a sister, Luisa Lolon of Manhattan; a half brother, Edward Pion of Washington; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her son, of Normandy Beach, N.J., she is survived by another son, David, of Berkeley, Calif.; a sister, Marjorie Whitmore, of Pontiac, Ill.; a brother, Sheldon Nichols, of Spring Hill, Fla.; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include four daughters, Irma Bluehouse, Laurencita Cohoe, Georgia Ann Plummer and Sally S. Wauneka; five sons, Franklin, George L. Jr., Henry Chee, Norman and Timothy; a sister, Ann Shirley, and three brothers, Bernard, Sam and Walter Shirley.
      
Her sister, Jean Bankier, said the cause was Parkinson's disease.
In addition to her husband and sister, both of Manhattan, she is survived by two brothers, Walton Harris of Santa Monica, Calif., and Whitley Harris of Ojai, Calif.; two stepchildren, Michael Balfe Howard of Castle Rock, Colo., and Pamela Howard of Oyster Bay, N.Y., and seven step-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Meyner is survived by a sister, Priscilla Hunt, of Cambridge, Mass.
It showed her sister Lita Annenberg Hazen, a patron of medical research and cultural institutions who died in 1995.
Besides her daughter, Mrs. Kelly is survived by a son, William E. 2d, of Spring Lake, N.J.; a sister, Katherine Duryea of Amityville, N.Y.; eight grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren.
      
She came to Los Angeles in 1923 to join her older sister, Hazel.
A friend of her sister was working at the new Walt Disney studios, and told her about a job opening there.
In the same year, she published ''The Sorrow Dance,'' a book of poems whose sorrow included the war and also the death of the poet's sister.
Educated by her parents, she was introduced to poetry by her older sister, Olga, and was writing from an early age.
The cause was complications from acute leukemia, said a sister, Sandy Socolar.
In addition to her parents, of Hamilton, Mass., and her husband, she is survived by a sister, Sophie Clifton of Bozeman, Mont., and a brother, John Pirie of Hamilton.
      
; two daughters, Julie, of Provincetown and Amy Weisman of Washington, and a sister, Nora Schwartz of New York City.
      
