
        Barbara E. Brooks, an editor at three major women's magazines, died yesterday at her sister's home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 39 and lived in Manhattan.
She died of lymphoma, said the sister, Suzanne Steinau.
Her sister is the only immediate survivor.
      
Besides her son Charles , she is survived by another son, David, of Boulder; a sister, Eva Taylor Holt of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
In addition to her companion, she is survived by a son, Lance R. Mankowski of Brooklyn; her parents, Manlio and Maria Vittoria of Pietrasanta, Italy, and a sister, Alessandra Cappuccio of Florence.
      
Survivors include her companion, Cyrus Rudman, and a sister, Laura Mulville, who lives in Florida.
      
Besides her husband and mother, Ms. Brooks is survived by two sons, Jonathan and Andrew, both of Manhattan and Mount Kisco; a stepbrother, Alan Brooks, and a sister, Joan Brooks Palermo, both of Manhattan.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Marsie Scharlatt of Los Angeles, and two stepdaughters, Katie Goddard of Minneapolis and Nellie Goddard of Chicago.
      
Besides her daughter, Amanda, a writer in New York City, she is survived by a sister, Virginia Jane Scott of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, who lives in Washington, she is survived by her husband, William Henry Dance; two sons, Theodore Marsh Dance of Lake Worth, Fla., and William Henry Dance Jr. of Santa Monica, Calif., and a sister, Lorraine Dibble of Naugatuck, Conn.
      
4th, of Palm Beach, Fla.; her mother, Frances Jones Redmond of Essex, Conn.; a sister, Jean Cushing of Riverside, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters and four sons of her other husbands: Mary Eaton Kerns; Erin Healy Sheffield; Sister Benedict, a Roman Catholic nun; William Jones; Paul West Jr., Timothy Healy and Ramon Sender.
      
She is survived by her husband, Bert M.; two daughters, Robin Lee Reisman of Manhattan and Jodie Sue Reisman of Wilton, Conn.; a son, Michael J. of Manhattan; and a sister, Irene Topolcic of Virginia Beach, Va.
      
Mrs. Kobrin is survived by three sons, Lawrence and Richard, both of Manhattan, and Jay, of Stamford and Sante Fe, N.M.; a sister, Thelma F. Diamond of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her companion and co-worker, Audrey Naylor of Branford, and a sister, Ada Belle Banta of Wills Point.
      
"
        Throughout her life Miss Gish remained singularly devoted to her mother and to her sister, Dorothy, who was younger, but who became an actress at about the same time Lillian did.
She also learned to edit film, set up lights and pick costumes, and she directed two films for Biograph, one of which starred her sister, Dorothy.
In 1913, when Griffith joined Mutual Productions, Miss Gish, her sister and many other artists at Biograph moved with him.
"
        With heavy investments of her own money, she then made two successful movies in Italy, "The White Sister" and "Romola.
Her survivors include her husband of a year, Richard Girard; two sons, Matthew Gologor of Oberlin, Ohio, and Benjamin Gologor of Manhattan; her mother, Suzanne Tumarkin of Manhattan, and a sister, Nina Tumarkin of Cambridge, Mass.
      
Miss Grad is survived by her sister, Charlotte Schiff-Jones of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert F. Branscombe, a retired textile manufacturing executive; two sons: Peter, of Fairfield, Conn., and John, of Manhattan, and a sister, Betty Omohundro of Ponte Vedra, Fla.
      
; a sister, Helen Sanger of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a sister, Erma Stim of Plainview, L.I.
She is survived by a brother, Robert, of Manhattan, and a sister, Barbara Michaels of Ossining, N.Y.
      
Miss Wood is survived by a sister, Miriam Moyer of Washington.
      
Surviving are her husband, Max Greenwood; a daughter, Gwenn Miller; her mother, Sarah Stoler of Stowe, Vt.; a brother, Will Stoler, of Montpelier, Vt., and her sister, Ann Stoler of Ann Arbor, Mich.
      
Miss Peardon "is acting the central part of the younger sister like an inspired bear cub," said Brooks Atkinson in his review in The New York Times.
She is survived by her husband, Paul King; her mother, Kathleen Quinn of Larchmont; a sister, Patricia Quinn of Los Angeles, and a brother, Michael, also of Los Angeles.
      
Ms. Magafan was born in Chicago and grew up in Colorado Springs, Colo. She and her twin sister, Jenne, an artist who died in 1952, studied with Boardman Robinson and the muralist Frank Mechau at the Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center.
Ms. Magafan was born in Chicago and grew up in Colorado Springs, Colo. She and her twin sister, Jenne, an artist who died in 1952, studied with Boardman Robinson and the muralist Frank Mechau at the Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center.
The cause was cancer, said her sister Walden S. Morton.
Besides her sister, Walden, of Center Harbor, N.H., she is survived by a son, Raphael James Taylor; her parents, Vice Adm. Benedict J. Semmes, retired, and Katherine Ainsworth Semmes of Washington; another sister, Amy Semmes Waite of Cambridge, Mass., and a brother, Dr. B. J. Semmes of Chevy Chase, Md.
      
Besides her sister, Walden, of Center Harbor, N.H., she is survived by a son, Raphael James Taylor; her parents, Vice Adm. Benedict J. Semmes, retired, and Katherine Ainsworth Semmes of Washington; another sister, Amy Semmes Waite of Cambridge, Mass., and a brother, Dr. B. J. Semmes of Chevy Chase, Md.
      
She is survived by her husband, A. Felix duPont Jr., a member of the duPont family of Wilmington; two daughters by her previous marriage, Louise Truesdale Loening of Landenberg, Pa., and Priscilla Loening Hanford of Paradise, Calif.; a son, Christopher T. duPont of Ketchum, Idaho; a stepson, Michael Hoyt duPont of Union, Wash.; a stepdaughter, Katharine duPont Gahagan of Wilmington, and a sister, Anne Truesdale Broadhurst of Wilton, Conn.
      
Dr. Healea is survived by a sister, Edith Everett, and a niece, Mildred Barnett, both of Fresno, Calif.
      
She died of heart failure after fighting cancer for two years, said her sister, Miranda de Kay.
Besides her sister Mrs. de Kay, she is survived by another sister, Suzanne Colt, and two daughters, Noelle La Muniere McElroy Carter and Suzanne La Muniere, all of Manhattan.
      
Besides her sister Mrs. de Kay, she is survived by another sister, Suzanne Colt, and two daughters, Noelle La Muniere McElroy Carter and Suzanne La Muniere, all of Manhattan.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Lisa of Baltimore and Catherine of Manhattan, and a sister, Helen Neuburg of Princeton, N.J.
      
In addition to her daughter Malu, she is survived by another daughter, Fayette Block, also of Provincetown; a sister, Dorothy Nay Carter of Vine Grove, Ky.; a brother, Benjamin Franklin Nay of Bremerton, Wash., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Suzy, of Anacortes, Wash., she is survived by a brother, Frank Flanagan, of Phoenix; a sister, Calla Haye, of Santa Fe; another daughter, Holly Hughes of Rowe, N.M.; a son, Antony A. Hughes, of El Paso, Tex.
She is survived by a sister, Angela Conner of London, and a daughter, Nolan Osborne Parker of East Sussex.
      
Dr. Harrison is survived by her husband, David; a son, Andy of Evanston, Ill.; a daughter, Rachel Harrison of Brooklyn; her parents, Rose and Harry Horowitz of Deerfield Beach, Fla., and a sister, Eleanor Dain of Kingston, R.I.
      
Survivors include a sister, Rosemarie C. Taylor of River Edge, N.J.; two nieces, Valerie E. Herbstman of East Quogue, L.I., and Jeanne Alva Besley of Bayville, and a nephew, John H. Taylor Jr. of Lattington, L.I.
      
In addition to her husband of 46 years, she is survived by four sons, Henry B. of Manhattan; Theodore S. of Manhattan; Samuel G. of Hingham, Mass., and Miles W. of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; two brothers, Henry Z. Steinway of Manhattan and Frederick Steinway of Amherst, Mass., and a sister, Lydia G. Cochrane of Chicago.
      
Her survivors include a sister, Marie B. Jeter of Ware Shoals, S.C.
      
Troy, and a sister, Shirley Stern, both of Miami, and two grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Thierry Noyelle; her parents, Chester and Irene Nic, and a sister, Mary Ann Nic, all of Philadelphia.
      
Brown; a son, Adam B. Leff of Los Angeles; a sister, Margaret Bodfish of Orinda, and three stepsons, Samuel Brown of Iron River, Mich., Robert Brown of Cordova, Alaska, and David Brown of Alta, Utah.
      
Mrs. Antonucci is survived by her husband, Anthony J.; a son, Peter A. of Manhattan; a sister, Marie Oberacker of Amherst, N.Y.; a brother, Anthony Sciolino of Buffalo, and one grandson.
      
Dr. Hobby is survived by a sister, Winifred Evans, also of Kennett Square.
      
Her sister, Barbara Klaw, said the cause was lung cancer.
Besides her husband and sister of West Cornwall, surviving are two daughters, Anne Bevans of West Cornwall and Jane Duber of Lillooet, British Columbia; a son, John, of West Cornwall, and a granddaughter.
Dr. Whitney is survived by her mother, Azalea Boeke of Sun City, Ariz.; a sister, Janice Hayes of Bloomington, Ind., and two daughters, Jennifer Whitney of Port Townsend, Wash., and Katie Whitney of Philadelphia.
      
In addition to her son, who is the executive director of the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition in Fort Worth, she is survived by a sister, Aniela Mieczyslawska of London, and a grandchild.
      
She is survived by her father, of Portland; a brother, Peter, of Manhattan, and a sister, Victoria Pierson of Portland.
      
In addition to her grandson, she is survived by a son, John G. Simon of New Haven; a daughter, Peggy Traktman, and a sister, Helen Marshall Borchard, both of New York City, and another grandchild.
      
When the couple were divorced in 1929, Mrs. Draper began her career in decorating with her sister Tiffany Taylor, establishing a firm called Taylor & Low.
The New York association now has chapters in nearly every county and sister organizations across the country.
Mrs. Dubnick is survived by her husband of 43 years, Dr. Lester Dubnick; her daughter, Monica L. Mowery of Scarsdale, N.Y., and a sister, Stella Monchick of West Palm Beach, Fla.
      
Mrs. Nevil is survived by her husband of 48 years, Harry J. Nevil Jr.; a daughter, Deborah L. of Scotia, N.Y.; two sons, Laurence F. of Saugerties, N.Y., and Robert M. of Chattanooga, Tenn.; a sister, Louise Starzenski of Galway, N.Y., and London; two brothers, Foster Nichols 3d of Brookville, N.Y., and Allen Nichols of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and four granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a sister, Audrey McMahon of Lawrenceville, N.J., and a brother, Edward A. Raymond of North Branford, Conn.
      
; a sister, Maya Wallace of Woodland Hills, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include her husband; a sister, Anne Klein of Laguna Beach, Calif.; six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her husband; a sister, Anne Klein of Laguna Beach, Calif.; six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Marion G. H. Gilliam; her mother, Natalie Davenport of Great Barrington and John's Island, Fla.; a sister, Baroness Bernard D'Anglejan-Chatillon of Paris and Vero Beach, Fla.; a half brother, William C. Ladd of Brewster, Mass.
; a half sister, Cornelia Goode of Melbourne, Australia; two stepbrothers, Geoffrey and Eric DeBellaigue, both of London, and a stepsister, Cornelia Schwartz of Harrisville, N.H.
      
She is survived by a sister, Mary Morgan, of Marietta, Ga.
      
She is survived by her husband, Fred Lazarus 3d, and their three children: Fred 4th, of Baltimore; Eleanor, of Watertown, Mass., and Margaret Crawford of Rhinebeck, N.Y.; a sister, Eleanor Strauss of Cincinnati; and two children by her previous marriage, to George Rau: Elizabeth Bloch of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and George Rau Jr. of Crested Butte, Colo.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Margery B. Franklin of Manhattan; two grandsons, Kenneth and David Frankin, and a sister, Lilian Uviller Pilat.
      
Surviving are a brother, Henry de la Torre Bueno of Oxnard, Calif., and a sister, Helen B. Barton of Tucson, Ariz.
      
Surviving are a brother, Henry de la Torre Bueno of Oxnard, Calif., and a sister, Helen B. Barton of Tucson, Ariz.
      
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1984, she is survived by their daughter, Megan Elizabeth Gelstein; her mother, Kathryn Johnson of Brooklyn; and a sister, Janet Grimminger of Townsend, Del.
      
; her mother, Caroline Colgate Taylor of Manhattan; a sister, Alice Day of Canberra, Australia; a brother, Howard C. Taylor 3d of Jericho, Vt., and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Stark is survived by her sons, both of Manhattan; a sister, Bea Zolt of Manhattan; two brothers, Mitchell and Bernard Snitkim, both of Miami, and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister.
      
Mrs. Meeker died of breast cancer, said her sister, Virginia Moore of Sarasota.
She is survived by her sister.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, Judith Nolte Heimer of Manhattan.
In addition to her sister, she is survived by her husband, Phillip J. Smith; her father, Clifford Nolte of St. Louis, and a brother, Douglas, of St. Louis.
      
Professor Campbell is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Flint of Daytona Beach, Fla.
      
After attending Edinburgh University and working as a journalist in London, she moved to New York with her family and then settled in San Francisco with her mother and sister, Pat, who often collaborated with her.
She also wrote a musical play with her sister.
She became a recluse after her sister died later that year.
      
She is survived by her mother, of Chino, Calif.; two brothers, Milne, of Chino and James, of New Orleans; and a sister, Elizabeth Zonn.
      
Ms. Bosworth is survived by her husband, Nicholas Pearson, a sculptor; two children, Lukas and Julia; her parents, Stanley Bosworth, headmaster of Saint Ann's School in Brooklyn Heights, and Anne Bosworth, head librarian of the school, which they jointly founded in 1965; a sister, Virginia Frisch of San Francisco, and a brother, Adam Bosworth of Seattle.
      
She is survived by two brothers, William Kartel of Lake Ronkonkoma, L.I., and Ted Kartofsky of Manhattan, and a sister, Sandra Kartfel of San Francisco.
      
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Kim Allen of Minneapolis; a son, Kerry Allen of New York City; a sister, Mary Behr, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Cathy Kenna of Sparta, N.J.
      
She is survived by her husband, J. Mitchell Jablons; a daughter, Pamela Jablons of Manhattan; a son, Dr. David Jablons of San Francisco, and a sister, Grace Burke of Colonie, N.Y.
      
She is survived by two sons, John F., of Orange Park, Fla., and James V., of Bellmont, Calif; a sister, Muriel Zeigler, of Malverne, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She thereupon decided she wanted to become a dancer, and with her sister, Margaret, studied at local ballet schools.
Her mother, who was more supportive of her artistic aspirations, took Miss de Mille and her sister to New York.
While her sister attended college, Miss de Mille tried to find theatrical work.
Dr. Feitel is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Fieman of Denver; two sons, Thomas of Summit, N.J., and Charles of Manhattan; a sister, Patricia Leeds of Albuquerque, N.M., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; her father, Gerald; her mother, Sharon, and her sister, Missy Farr-Kay, all of Phoenix.
      
"
        She is survived by a sister, Margaret Bradley of Belleville, Ontario.
She is survived by her son, who lives in Manhattan, and a sister, Esther Harris of Philadelphia.
      
Penfield Roberts, Crane Brinton and Walter Bogner, is survived by a daughter, Jane Roberts Gill of Brookline; a sister, Catherine Allphin of Middletown, R.I.; six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Helen Roelker Kessler of Cambridge, Mass., a nephew and three nieces.
      
She is survived by a sister, Eloise Hertford, of San Diego.
      
Ms. Lindbergh is also survived by a daughter, Constance Feydy, and a son, Marek Sapieyevski, both of Thetford Center; two step-daughters, Elisabeth Perrin, of Seattle and Amy Perrin, of White River Junction, Vt.; a sister, Reeve Tripp, of Barnet, and three brothers, Jon, of North Bend, Wash., Land, of Missoula, Mont., and Scott, of Brasilia.
"
        She is survived by her sister, Florence Storm of Big Rapids, Mich.
      
Mrs. Heineman is survived by three daughters, Helen Heineman Haje and Laurie Heineman Millican, both of Manhattan, and Carol Heineman Staley of Fort Collins, Colo.; a sister, Della Mickoll Podell of Milwaukee, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Sandford; four children from an earlier marriage, Joshua, Daniel, Jordanna and Benjamin Abrams; her mother, Pearl Resnick, widow of Jack Resnick, the New York real-estate developer; a sister, Marilyn Katz; and two brothers, Burton and Ira, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband of 58 years, Winston T. Kellogg of Easton; a sister, Joan M. DeWind of Sherman, Conn.; three daughters, Joanna K. Uhry of Manhattan, Constance Casey of Wilmette, Ill., and Emily K. Hackett of Stamford, Conn., and nine grandchildren.
      
Miss Tully's only sibling, a younger sister, Marion Tully Dimick of Washington, died in 1981.
      
