Ms. Freeman is survived by her brother, Edward Greenbaum of Clearwater, Fla; her sister, Sue Polera of Las Vegas; her sister and brother-in-law, Sally and Warren Rosenberg of Scarborough, N.Y.; and numerous nieces and nephews.
      
Ms. Freeman is survived by her brother, Edward Greenbaum of Clearwater, Fla; her sister, Sue Polera of Las Vegas; her sister and brother-in-law, Sally and Warren Rosenberg of Scarborough, N.Y.; and numerous nieces and nephews.
      
A cousin was married to a son of the industrialist Norton Simon, and through that association she became part of a well-connected extended family that included the actress Jennifer Jones, who was married to Simon, and Simon's sister, Marcia Weisman, a prominent art collector.
She made her debut at Town Hall, in a joint recital with her sister, Ruth Rankin, a soprano, in March 1947.
Her operatic debut in New York was in a production of ''Aida'' at the Salmaggi Opera Company, in Brooklyn, in which she sang Amneris and her sister sang the title role.
The cause was lung cancer, her sister, Sophie Hocknell, said.
Ms. Macris is survived by her sister, Ms. Hocknell, of Salem, Mass.
      
In addition to her daughter, Dr. Thelen is survived by her husband, David, a history professor at Indiana; a son, Jeremy, of Providence, R.I.; a sister, Harriet Saeck of Sacramento; and one grandson.
      
She is survived by a sister, Annemarie Kohler of Zurich.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Lederer is survived by a sister, Ida Shimanouchi, of Medford, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Patricia Lederer Michaels, of Manhattan; and one stepgrandson.
      
Ms. Dolbeare is survived by her husband, Louis P. Dolbeare; a sister, Alice Lynd of Niles, Ohio; two children, L. Niles Dolbeare of San Francisco and Mary Dolbeare O'Kane of Seattle; and four grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Billie Carol Austin of Denver; a brother, John C. Austin of Duncan, Okla.; 10 grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Elizabeth Seegar of Silver Spring, Md.
The cause was complications of a stroke, her sister, Elisabeth Keiffer, said.
She met him about 1942, her sister said in a telephone interview, when she was one of the first three copy girls hired by The Daily News, where he was a rewrite man.
In addition to her sister, Ms. McNulty is survived by a son, John Joseph McNulty of Brooklyn, and four grandchildren.
      
In 2002, Ms. Schell made her last public appearance at a presentation of ''Meine Schwester Maria'' (''My Sister Maria''), Maximilian's documentary about her life.
She is survived by a sister, Phyllis Kempner; four children from her first marriage: Pamela Davis Kivelson, Nancy Stewart, Alan Davis and Cynthia Kanner; three stepchildren: Bill Beyers, Robbie Beyers and Amy Theorin; and 13 grandchildren and step-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Peter A. Bradford of Peru, Vt., and David A. Bradford of Guilford, Vt.; three daughters, Carola Lea of Lyme, N.H., Madhavi Bradford of Darlington, Idaho, and Deborah Bradford of Aspen, Colo.; a sister, Phyllis Farley of Manhattan; two stepsons, Charles P. Noyes III of Spencertown, N.Y., and James McC.
She was 93 and also had homes in Palm Beach, Fla., and Newport, R.I.
        Mrs. Hall, a sister of the late publisher Walter H. Annenberg, shared her fortune with many beneficiaries.
She is survived by three sons, John Friede of Rye, N.Y., Robert Friede of Newton, Mass., and Thomas Jaffe of Manhattan; a sister, Enid Haupt of Greenwich, Conn.; three grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
; her brother, Jeremy, of Lexington, Ky.; her sister, Susan, of Vienna, Va.; three nephews, Gabriel Popkin, Alexander Popkin and Zachary Popkin-Hall; and a niece, Rachel Kang Popkin-Hall.
      
''Why play with dolls,'' she recalled years later, ''when you can sing 'I Wish I Could Shimmy Like My Sister Kate' on the street corner?
Besides her husband and daughter, both of Scarsdale, Ms. Hochberg is survived by a sister, Merle Bogin, of Manhattan; another daughter, Brenda Hochberg, of Brookline, Mass.
The cause was breast cancer, her sister Eileen Lynch Sussan said.
In addition to her husband and her sister Eileen, of Stamford, Conn., Mrs. O'Brien is survived by her daughter, Kate, of Nantucket; her son, Miles, of Cockeysville, Md.
Besides her son, of Los Angeles (an actor on Broadway and in films, Mr. Burstyn changed the spelling of his name as an adult), Ms. Lux is survived by a daughter, Susan Roth of Westfield, N.J.; and a sister, Beatrice Friedman of Washington.
      
With her sister, Doris Zames Fleischer, Ms. Zames wrote ''The Disability Rights Movement: From Charity to Confrontation'' (Temple University, 2001), a historical survey.
In addition to her sister, of Brooklyn, Ms. Zames is survived by her partner of more than 30 years, Michael Imperiale.
      
In 1995, she published a memoir, ''Happy Days: My Mother, My Father, My Sister and Me'' (Doubleday), an account of her privileged but loveless childhood.
Shana and her younger sister spent their early childhood in the family's opulent home on West 57th Street.
Ms. Alexander's sister, Laurel Bentley of Manhattan Beach, Calif., is her only immediate survivor.
(Her mother was able to join her in 1946; a sister also managed to escape.
Ms. Beine is survived by a sister, Deanie Alexander of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband Stanley Leff; her children, Daniel and Jean Rossner; her sister, Nancy Pike; and three grandchildren.
; three daughters, Alice W. Ballard of Philadelphia, Sophie B. Bilezikian of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Ernesta Ballard of Ketchikan, Alaska; a sister, Cecilia D. Saltonstall of Exeter, N.H.; a brother, Henry Drinker of Bedford, Mass.
In addition to Mr. Thompson, a retired manager of Internet services at The Times, Ms. Kerr is survived by their son, Andrew Kerr-Thompson; her mother, Hermine, of Wayne, N.J.; and a sister, Jacqueline Kerr Harrold, of Benton, Pa.
      
; a son, Peter; two daughters, Gillian and Lauren, all of Dover; and by a sister, Denni Day of Rochester.
      
He survives her, along with a sister, Florence Horn, of Salisbury, Md.
Besides Mr. Barnes, she is survived by a brother, Larry Abramowitz of New York City; a sister, Helen Berliner of Wylie, Tex.
Ms. Nikel is survived by her husband, Sam Leiman; her daughter, Ziva Hanan; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren, all of Moshav Kidron; and a sister, Sara Bock, of Rockaway Beach, Queens.
      
She attended Johns Hopkins University, ran a nursery school with her sister and worked as a fashion model.
The death was confirmed by Sister Angèle Arbib, a spokeswoman for the abbey.
That year, she entered Notre Dame de Jouarre, a Benedictine abbey outside Paris, taking the name Sister Benedict.
The abbey made no public comment on the charges at the time and, through Sister Angèle, declined to comment last week.
''That was a discernment of Rome, and this community has the greatest respect for that discernment,'' Sister Angèle said in a telephone interview last week.
The next year, Mother Benedict stepped down from the day-to-day administration of the abbey, becoming abbess emerita, Sister Angèle said.
The cause was a stroke, her sister Sharon Malone told The Associated Press.
''
        In addition to Ms. Pucci, Ms. Hunt is survived by a sister, Aileen, and a brother, Saul.
      
Bond is survived by their three children, Jane Clement Bond and J. Max Bond Jr., both of Manhattan, and George Clement Bond of Teaneck, N.J.; a sister, Emma Clement Walker, of Seattle; six grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
''
        A member of the research and development staff at General Foods, Ms. Siems was instrumental, her sister Suzanne Porter said, in arriving at the precise crumb dimensions -- about the size of a pencil eraser.
Besides Ms. Porter, of Copley, Ohio, Ms. Siems is survived by another sister, Rosemary Snyder, of Chicago; and a brother, David, of Milford, Mich.
        As a mark of just how deeply inscribed on the American palate Ms. Siems's stuffing has become, there are several recipes, available on the Internet, that promise to reproduce the taste of Stove Top from scratch, using fresh ingredients.
      
Besides her daughter, of Newton, Mass., she is survived by a son, Michael Silberman, of Montclair, N.J.; a sister, Alberta N. Grossman of Manhattan and Westport; and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Michael, of St. Petersburg, Fla., and Patrick, of Redmond, Wash.; a daughter, Megan Styles of Danville, Calif.; a brother, Joseph Madden of Indian Rocks, Fla.; a sister, Jane Rupp of St. Petersburg; and two grandchildren.
      
