In addition to her daughter, Ms. Adler is survived by her husband, Dr. Eugene B. Silbermann, a New York obstetrician and gynecologist; a stepdaughter, Allison Adler of Manhattan; a sister, Beverly Zaccheo of Long Island City, Queens; two granddaughters and a grandson.
      

        Mary Frances Rice, known as Sister Berenice of the Order of St. Ursula, a retired faculty member and trustee of the College of New Rochelle, died on Sunday at the Marian Residence in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 89 years old.
Sister Berenice was a member of the Ursuline Convent of St. Teresa, having entered the Ursuline Order in 1925.
Rice of Bronxville, N.Y., and Leo Rice of Cherry Hill, N.J., and a sister, Eleanor Rice Saunders of Philadelphia.
      
Surviving are her husband, Raymond L. Poston of Washington; four children, Jeffrey L., Carol D., Ramsey R. and Katharene J., all of Washington, and a sister, Diane J. Welch of Kansas City, Mo.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Stella Wilkinson of London; a son, Michael, of Cambridge; six grandchildren, and a sister, Stella Ednam of Argentina.
      

        Catherine Viviano, an art dealer and consultant in Manhattan for many years, died on Tuesday at Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. She was 92 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Little York, N.J.
        She died of a stroke, said her sister Margaret, of Manhattan.
In addition to her sister Margaret, she is survived by another sister, Virginia, of Manhattan, and a brother, Joseph, of Baltimore.
      
In addition to her sister Margaret, she is survived by another sister, Virginia, of Manhattan, and a brother, Joseph, of Baltimore.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Peggy, of Westchester County; a sister, Rose S. Allen, of Newton, Mass.
She was the sister of former Gov.
She is survived by her parents, Mr. Lutz and Mona Furuki, who now live in Los Angeles; a son, Maximillian, and a daughter, China, both of Pacific Palisades, and a sister, Adelle Lutz of Manhattan, who is the wife of the rock musician David Byrne.
      
She is survived by her parents, Mr. Lutz and Mona Furuki, who now live in Los Angeles; a son, Maximillian, and a daughter, China, both of Pacific Palisades, and a sister, Adelle Lutz of Manhattan, the wife of the rock musician David Byrne.
      
Her survivors include a sister, Lydia Harvey, also of Danville.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her father, George, and a sister, Natalie Fewsmith, all of New York City.
      
' "
        She is survived by a brother, Dr. Roger F. Murray II of New Hampshire, and a sister, Mary Murray Westcote of New Jersey.
      
"
        In addition to her son, she is survived by a sister, Mimi Shapiro of Manhattan.
      
Surviving are her husband, Ray Manley; two daughters, Rebecca Chenitz of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Kim Manley of Greenbrae; a sister, Lucille Allison of Greenbrae, and her mother, Yvette Allison of Summerfield, Fla.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Marcella Clark McCormack of Newport and Manhattan, and a sister, Patti Shreve of Bethlehem, Pa.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Marcella Clark McCormack of Newport and Manhattan, and a sister, Patti Shreve of Bethlehem, Pa.
      
She is survived by a son, Justin Greene of New York; two brothers, Martin and William Paul Siegel of Fort Worth, and a sister, Caryl Stern of New York.
      
She is survived by her husband of 32 years, George C., an investment banker; a daughter, Diana, of Manhattan; two sons, George, of Riverside, Conn., and Jonathan, of Manhattan; a sister, Sheila English of New Haven; a brother, Alexander White of Manhattan and Chatham, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Evelina Johnson McAvoy, of Erie, Pa., and a brother, Harry Johnson, of Warren.
      
Miss Walker is survived by her husband, David Craig; a daughter, Miranda Craig, and a sister, Betty Lou Barto, both of Los Angeles.
      
Miss Colby died of lung disease, her sister, Francine Okie of East Greenwich, R.I., said.
" Miss Colby's sister, Francine, said yesterday, "She sold more advertising than all of them.
Miss Colby is survived by her sister.
      
Surviving are her husband of 30 years, Robert E. Lewis, a literary agent; two daughters, Ellen J. and Sarah E., both of Manhattan; a brother, James Simonson of Minneapolis, , and a sister, Sonja Schrag of La Crosse, Wis.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mandell J. Ourisman; two sons by a previous marriage, Daniel L. Korengold, of Washington, and Thomas E. Korengold, of Chevy Chase; three stepsons, David J. Ourisman of Eatontown, N.J., John M. Ourisman of Bethesda, Md., and Robert B. Ourisman of Washington; her mother, Hannah Haydnet of Minneapolis; a sister, Patricia Chanin of New York City, and 12 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Eila Phillips, who lives in England, and Ms. Schneider, of New York City.
      
In addition to her son, who lives in Bakersfield, she is survived by her husband, another son, Peter, of Clovis, N.M.; a daughter, Susan Chidgey of Bakersfield; a brother, Elvy Orsborn, and a sister, Louise Orsborn.
      
She is survived by a son, Ferdy C. of Greenwich, and a sister, Leontine Tintner of Vienna, Austria.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mandell J. Ourisman; two sons by a previous marriage, Daniel L. Korengold, of Washington, and Thomas E. Korengold, of Chevy Chase; three stepsons, David J. Ourisman of Eatontown, N.J., John M. Ourisman of Bethesda, Md., and Robert B. Ourisman of Washington; her mother, Hannah Haydnet of Minneapolis; a sister, Patricia Chanin of New York City, and 12 grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two sons, Dee Michel of Los Angeles and Guy Michel of Brooklyn; a brother, Lou Martin of Wyncote, Pa., and a sister, Helen Abramson of North Miami Beach.
      
She is survived by her brother, James Speers of Pensacola, Fla., and a sister, Elizabeth Bagley of Rock Hill, S.C.
      
She is survived by her husband, Milton; three daughters, Elizabeth Hersh, of Washington; Emily Abel, of Santa Monica, Calif., and Margaret Nelson of Middlebury, Vt.; two sons, James, of Takoma Park, Md., and Thomas, of New York; a sister, Joan Aron, of Washington, and 12 grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Jan Doughery of Sedona, Ariz; a brother, Martin Whitman of New York City; a sister, Judge Phyllis Beck of Philadelphia, and a granddaughter.
      
; a daughter, Elaine Audi Macken of Brooklyn; a sister, Aline Nemir Speer of Austin, Tex., and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Josephine McKim Chalmers, also of Woodstock, and two grandsons, David Kadish of White Plains and Jonathan Kadish of Hoboken, N.J.
      
Topping Jr., a private investor; her mother, Helen Eades Stutsman of St. Louis; a sister, Nancy Lamb of Cambridge, Mass.
She is survived by a sister, Ethel Montague of Mill Valley, Calif.
      
She died in her sleep at the home of her sister, Helen Silverblatt, said Seymour Rexite, president of the Hebrew Actors Union.
Miss Picon is survived by her sister.
Surviving are her husband of 43 years, Jeremiah, a lawyer in Manhattan; three daughters, Mara Ferris of Brookline, Mass., and Thea Gutman and Rebecca Menon, both of Manhattan; a sister, Naomi Fatouros of Bloomington, Ind., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her father, Ellis Dryer of Toronto; a brother, Matthew, of Buffalo; a sister, Dr. Dagny Dryer Murray, of Prince Edward Island, Canada, and a grandfather, John L. Synge of Dublin.
      
Mrs. Reynal is survived by a brother, Robert W. Whelan of Washington Depot, Conn.; her sister, Eleanor W. Ewart of Manhattan, and eight nieces and nephews.
      
Dr. Symonds is survived by her husband, Dr. Martin Symonds, a psychiatrist and deputy chief surgeon of the New York City Police Department; a sister, Edith Zuaro, of Long Island, two brothers, Milton Schacter and Dr. Sherman Schacter, both of Manhattan, two nephews and three nieces.
      
The young Marie Magdalene and her elder sister, Elisabeth, were brought up strictly in an upper-middle-class Prussian home.
She is survived by a brother, Burton Blagman, of Wyckoff, N.J., and a sister, Muriel Bailey of Chesterfield, Mo.
Ms. Sklover is survived by a sister, Marcia Kleinman, and a brother, Stanley Klein, both of New York City.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Carola Chase of the Bronx; two sons, Jonathan of Manhattan and Michael of Chicago; a sister, Jean Farr of British Columbia, Canada, and five grandchildren.
      
; a brother, William Glenn Ellis of Houston, a sister, Rebecca Ellis Christy of Dallas; and a stepson, Matthew Hirschhorn of Arvada, Colo.
      
She is survived by her mother, Gertrude Feldenkreis of Atlantic City; a daughter, Eleanor Smith, and a son, David A., both of Santa Monica; a sister, Nancy Wurman of Philadelphia, and a brother, Howard Feldenkreis of Leominster, Mass.
      
"
        Surviving are her husband of 43 years, Hiram D. Black, a retired lawyer and financial consultant; a daughter, Suzanne O'Toole of Darien, Conn.; a sister, Suzanne Morris of Delray Beach, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
She and her three brothers and a sister jointly donated the funds for the construction, in the mid-1950's, of the first dormitory at Albert Einstein College.
; a sister, Anna Lopin, and a brother, William Mazer, both of Manhattan; five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, William Glenn Ellis of Houston, a sister, Rebecca Ellis Christy of Dallas, and a stepson, Matthew Hirschhorn of Arvada, Colo.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Eleanor Payne of Atlanta; a sister, Harriet Jenkins of Shaker Heights, Ohio; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
An Appetite for Writing
        In 1952, Mrs. Fisher and her sister, Norah, rented houses on neighboring vineyards in St. Helena, Calif., an area that, with the exceptions of stays in the South of France, would remain home.
"Sister Age," was published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1983.
"
        Mrs. Fisher is survived by her sister, Norah Barr; two daughters, Anna Parrish, of Portland, Ore., and Ms. Wright of Alameda, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      

        Sister Margaret Carthy, former president of the College of New Rochelle and dean of its graduate school, died on Sunday at the Marian Residence in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 80 years old.
She had Alzheimer's disease and died of pneumonia, said Sister Eileen Fane, prioress of the Convent of St. Teresa, an Ursuline community in New Rochelle.
Sister Margaret was born and raised in Manhattan and graduated from the College of New Rochelle in 1933.
A Former Dean
        Sister Margaret began her years in the administration at the College of New Rochelle as assistant registrar in 1941 and served as dean of the college from 1950 to 1957 and then as president until 1961.
Both before and after her retirement, Sister Margaret wrote articles and books about American church history, including "Catholicism in English-Speaking Lands" (Hawthorn Books, 1964).
She is survived by a sister, Mary Connolly of Jericho, L.I., and many nieces and nephews.
      
Ms. Linfield is survived by her 9-year-old daughter, Sarah Linfield Mattingly; by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jordan L. Linfield of Brooklyn, and by her sister, Susan Linfield of Manhattan.
      
In 1952, Mrs. Fisher and her sister, Norah, rented houses on neighboring vineyards in St. Helena, Calif., an area that, with the exceptions of stays in the South of France, would remain home.
"Sister Age," was published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1983.
"
        Mrs. Fisher is survived by her sister, Norah Barr; two daughters, Anna Parrish, of Portland, Ore., and Ms. Wright of Alameda, Calif., and four grandchildren.
She is survived by a sister, Keiko Kakutani, who lives outside New Haven.
      
3d of Maplewood and William S. Jr. of Lebanon Township, N.J.; a sister, Thalia B. Husted of Mantoloking, N.J., and one grandchild.
      
She died of natural causes, said her sister, Dorothy Dry of Berwick, Pa.
        Miss Olheim, whose name was Oelheim off the stage, was a member of the Metropolitan Opera from 1935 to 1944.
In addition to her sister, she is survived by a brother, Bennett C. Oelheim of Pacific Grove, Calif.
      
Her survivors include a sister, Margaret Holmes Scarborough of Norfolk, Va., and Manchester, N.H.
      
Within weeks, she went back to work once again, designing Mollie Parnis At-Home fashions in a company that had been started by her sister Peggy and was then owned by her nephew, Neal Hochman.
Surviving are a son, Richard P. Mathias of Wiesbaden, Germany; two daughters, Natalie Wolfe of Manhattan and Sasha Wolfe of Brooklyn; a brother, Rudy Zerabica, and a sister, Josephine Simmons, both of Trafford, Pa., and one granddaughter.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Douglas, of Covelo, Calif.; her parents, Lil and Albert Tarshis of Las Vegas, Nev.; a sister, Lolo Berkoff, and a brother, Stanley Gordon, both of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
Ms. Baer is survived, in addition to Dr. Fensterheim, by a sister, Carol Norr of Scarsdale, N.Y., and a brother, Robert Baer of Woodstock, N.Y.
      

        Sister Josephine Morgan, whose work as director of the Pius X School of Liturgical Music at Manhattanville College helped raise the standards of sacred music, died on Friday at Kenwood Convent of the Sacred Heart in Albany.
She died of heart failure, said Sister Mary Lyman, the convent's pastoral care minister.
Sister Morgan, who was born in New York City, entered the Society of the Sacred Heart in 1923.
Her sister, Ellen, married John J. McCloy, an adviser to several American Presidents, and a cousin married Konrad Adenauer, a Chancellor of West Germany.
She is survived by her husband, Howard; two sons, Robert, of Westfield, N.J., and Barry, of Novato; a brother, Arnold Fassler of Williamsville, Vt.; a sister, Sue Kellerman of San Rafael, Calif., and three grandchildren
      

        Lillian Libman, a manager, press agent and personal representative for many leading instrumentalists, opera singers and dancers, died on Monday at her sister's home in Larchmont, N.Y. She was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
She died of lung cancer, said her sister Bernice Lewis.
In addition to Mrs. Lewis, she is survived by another sister, Anna Shore, of Lakeville, Mass.
      
Mrs. Somerville is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Kelley; a son, Chad; a twin sister, Tamara Westover, all of Rye, and her father, Paul Buiar of Pound Ridge, N.Y.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Irving C. Gayner; two sons, Stephen, also of Forest Hills, and Jay D., of Manhattan; a sister, Dorothy Kasman of Manhattan, and one granddaughter.
      
For almost 50 years, Mrs. Fordyce and her sister, Mary Woodard Lasker, were the driving forces behind the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, which awarded the Albert Lasker Medical Research Awards.
She is survived by her sister, Mary Lasker of Manhattan and Greenwich, Conn.; her son, James of Greenwhich, and three grandsons.
      

        Sister Joseph Maria Scaglione, the director of the Grace Institute in Manhattan, died on Sept. 3 at the institute, where she lived.
Sister Scaglione had worked as an educator since joining the Sisters of Mercy, a Roman Catholic order, in 1947.
As the director, Sister Scaglione helped adapt the institute's program to the changing needs of the city's minority and immigrant women.
Before working at Grace, Sister Joseph taught at St. Raymond's Academy and Spellman High School in the Bronx and was the director of St. Joseph's Academy in Greenwich Village.
Surviving are a brother and sister, Jack and Rosalie Scaglione, both of Queens.
Correction:  September 26, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary on Sept. 12 on Sister Joseph Maria Scaglione, director of the Grace Institute in Manhattan, misidentified her Roman Catholic order.
Mrs. Huttner is survived by a son, Dr. James F. Brodey of West Hartford, Conn.; a stepson, Richard Huttner of Middletown, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Hilary Fylstra of Lake Tahoe, Nev.; a sister, Celia Hartley of New Port Richey, Fla.; and four grandchildren.
      
Dr. McClintock is survived by a sister, Mignon Crowell, who lives in Florida, and a brother, Thomas N. McClintock of Newtown, Conn.
      
The organization sponsored many productions, some of which moved to Off Broadway, including Christopher Durang's "Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All for You," Jonathan Reynolds's "Geniuses" and Wendy Wasserstein's "Isn't It Romantic.
She is survived by her husband, Robert C. Wilder; a daughter, Rachel W. Smeragliuolo of Baltimore; two sons, Clinton D., of San Francisco, and Robert D., of Washington; a sister, Doris Gould of Atlanta, and a granddaughter.
      
On the stage she was a gangster's moll in "Three Men on a Horse" (1935), an inquisitive photographer in "The Philadelphia Story" (1939), a caustic writer in "My Sister Eileen" (1940), an anti-fascist teacher in "Tomorrow the World" (1943) and an exuberant gossip columnist in "Hollywood Pinafore" (1945).
She is survived by a sister, Jean Coe of Los Angeles.
      
"
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Viertel is survived by a daughter, Alice Krieger of Manhattan; two sons, Tom of Manhattan, and Jack of Tarrytown, N.Y.; a sister, Joy Golden of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by her mother, Estelle Snellenberg, of Philadelphia, and a sister, Leslie Friedman, of Philadelphia.
      
She is also survived by her mother, Estelle Snellenberg, of Philadelphia, and a sister, Leslie Friedman, of Philadelphia.
      
"
        Miss Green is survived by a brother, John H. Green, and a sister, Beatrice Clews.
      
Surviving is a sister, Clarice Ribbens of Front Royal, Va.
      
A sister, Chauncina Yellow Robe White Horse, died in 1981.
Rosebud Yellow Robe Frantz is survived by her husband, Alfred Frantz; a daughter, Tachawin Moy, of Brooklyn; a granddaughter, Karen Winona Moy, of Manhattan; and a sister, Evelyn Robe Finkbeiner, of Bad Pyrmont and Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.
      
In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a son, Carl T., of Toronto; another daughter, Marianna M. Clark, of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a sister, Oleta McCarty, of Pensacola, Fla.; 13 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, of Plainville, she is survived by her husband, Milton M. Koskoff; a daughter, Harriet K. Ziering of San Francisco; two brothers, Alan and Daniel Farber, both of Worcester, Mass; a sister, Lillian Feinberg of New York City, and a grandson.
      
Besides her husband, Dr. Fromm is survived by her sister, Selma Margolis, and her brother, Nathan Glikin, both of Union, N.J.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Harriet Silverstein of San Diego, and three brothers, Simon, also of San Diego, Israel, of Delray Beach, Fla., and Abraham, of Yardley, Pa.
      
Miss Hirsh died of pneumonia, said her sister, Hadassah Hirsh of Manhattan, who reported her death yesterday.
In addition to her sister she is survived by a brother, David, of Hallendale, Fla.
      
She was 84 years old and lived in New York City
        She died of a pulmonary embolism, said her sister, Leine Seligmann.
"
        Her sister is her only survivor.
      
She is survived by her husband, Aubey Neill, of Baldwin; a sister, Myrna Shrouder; a brother, Ken Chong, and her parents, Zena and Linton Shrouder, all of the Bronx.
      
She is survived by a sister, Mildred Bright of Northridge, Calif., and a stepdaughter, Carol Reach of Van Nuys, Calif.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Sherry Quist of Boston; two brothers, James Foster of Westport, Mass., and Russell Foster of Rehobeth, Mass., and a sister, Barbara Marchand of Franklin, Mass.
      
She is survived by her daughters, Leah Cohen Chatinover of South Windsor, Conn.; Sara Cohen of Kibbutz Ketura, Israel, and Rebecca Cohen Stewart of Bridgewater, N.J.; her mother and stepfather, Florence and Ed Nash of Bridgewater; a brother, Louis Kauder of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Susan Schwirck of Rahway, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Anton O. Kris; two sons, David S. and Michael M. Kris, and a sister, Mary Ellen B. Wohl.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Ellen, of Manhattan; a sister, Julia, of Englewood, N.J., and two grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Kevin; a son, Matthew; three daughters, Anna, Katherine and Margaret, all of Bedford Hills; her mother, Anna Bondhus; her brother, Nelson, of Farmington, Conn., and a sister, Diana Bortolin, of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      
In addition to her son, an actor whose stage name is Ian Swift, she is survived by a sister, Joan Detweiler of Sarasota, Fla.; four daughters, Sharon Cowling of Vezenobres, France; Kathe Vail, who lives outside Paris; Clover Vail of New York City, and Faith Gude of Boston; 17 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her companion, Susan Hajjar; her mother, Sarah Donovan of Winter Park, Fla., and a sister, Janette Harriott of Edmond, Okla.
      
She is survived by a sister, Louise Paget Kowalski of Los Angeles.
      
She founded two organizations, ACE, for AIDS Counseling and Education Program, and, after her release in 1990, its sister program, ACE-OUT, to help women with AIDS in and out of prison do more for themselves.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Agnes Nessen, of Lincoln, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
Accompanied by her sister, Margie, who was sent by their father to keep an eye on her, she broke in with the expansion Minneapolis Millerettes in 1944 and was an immediate star.
In addition to her husband, her sister, who is now Margaret Maxwell of Vancouver, and her sons Kelly and Casey, Mrs. St. Aubin is survived by a brother, Lou; two other sisters, Pearl McInnis and Kay Morrison; three other sons, Ricky, the former head football coach at the University of California at Santa Barbara; Rocky, a telephone company employee, and Kelly's twin brother, Kerry, a Richard Hofstadter fellow in history at Columbia University, plus three grandchildren.
      
