Postal of Silver Spring, Md., and Dr. Eric S. Postal of Albany; a sister, Deborah Gitelman of Orangeburg, N.Y.; and her companion, Elie Mystal of Amityville.
She is survived by her brother, Charles Mitchell, and sister, Margaret Tesone, both of Detroit.
Ms. Frame is survived by her sister, June Gordon.
They married in 1945 and had two children, John S. Brown and Elizabeth D. Charlaff, who survive her, along with Ms. Aiken's sister, Jane A. Hodge, and two grandchildren.
But she had always longed to be a writer, her sister Barbara Turner said.
''
        In addition to her mother and sister, Ms. Goldsmith's survivors include another sister, Kate Goldfield.
''
        In addition to her mother and sister, Ms. Goldsmith's survivors include another sister, Kate Goldfield.
; a sister, Carolyn Griffin of San Antonio; and six grandchildren.
      
She hopes to find these women by teaming with sister groups across the country.
Troy's younger sister Vy Higginsen and Mr. Wydro, who is Ms. Higginsen's husband, the show told the story of a young woman named Doris Winter who sings in a gospel choir and becomes an international pop star.
In addition to her sister Vy, of Manhattan, Ms.
Troy is survived by another sister, Joyce Davis, of Fort Lee, N.J.
      

        Sister Doris Smith, who was president of the College of Mount St. Vincent in the Bronx from 1973 to 1992, died on Thursday.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Sister Eileen McGrory, a member of her religious order, the Congregation of the Sisters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul.
While Sister Doris was president of the college, it grew significantly in student population and, in 1988, a master's degree program was added.
Sister Doris was credited with opening the college to the surrounding community in Riverdale.
A native of Cleveland, Sister Doris graduated from the College of Mount St. Vincent.
Correction:  February 25, 2004, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about Sister Doris Smith, former president of the College of Mount St. Vincent in the Bronx, misstated the date of her death.
His eldest sister, Estelle Stewart, who had married Everett Axton in 1941, became Mr. Stewart's partner in 1958 when she took out a second mortgage on her home to buy recording equipment.
''
        Ms. Axton is survived by her sister, Mary Lucille McAlpin; her brother, Mr. Stewart; her daughter, Doris Axton Fredrick; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Besides her husband, Ms. Spindler is survived by her mother, Sally Spindler of Tampa, Fla., and a sister, Bonnie, of San Francisco.
      
Ms. Gamarekian, who was divorced, is survived by her brother, Glenn Soellner of Burnt Hill, N.Y., and her sister, Robin Hughes of Schenectady.
She is survived by her husband; a son, Daniel; a daughter, Emily; her mother, Linda Hall of Jefferson, N.Y.; and a sister, Debra Hall of New York City.
      
(Angelica Garnett, the daughter of Duncan Grant and Vanessa Bell, Virginia Woolf's sister, published a well-reviewed book about her Bloomsbury childhood, ''Deceived by Kindness,'' in 1985.
Dr. McCord is survived by her sons, Geoffrey Sayre-McCord of Durham, N.C., and Robert McCord of Bryn Mawr, Pa.; her ward, whom she regarded as a family member, Tom Underwood of Boston; her brother, Robert Fish of Santa Cruz, Calif.; her sister, Connie Arnosti of Milwaukee; and four grandsons.
Ms. Schwarz and her sister, Hermene Schwarz, who died in 1986, were natives of Dayton who, through decades of persistence, made that city a dance center.
Ms. Schwarz and her sister, who were white, taught black students at a time when some white residents of Dayton frowned upon such classes.
''
        Among her survivors are her husband, Odell Day; four brothers, Edward Parrott and Earl Johnson of Darlington, and Allan and Wesley Parrott of New York; a sister, Hattie Miller of Landover, Md.
Mrs. Beck is survived by her sister, Catharine Cooper, of Islington, England; her sons Cameron, of Canton, and Gordon, of Larchmont, N.Y.; her daughter, Emily M. Beck, of Larchmont; and three grandchildren.
In her last year of college, she and John met when they were members of the wedding party of Nancy Walker Bush, sister of the former president George H. W. Bush, and Alexander Ellis.
''Later, when we knew each other a lot better, he said he had been assigned to be very nice to the groom's younger sister,'' she said.
Footwear News is a sister of WWD at Fairchild Publications.
The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Marilyn Reagan, her sister, said.
''I'm doing this for Lavinia,'' he said of his sister.
Miss Froos is survived by her sister Betty Froos of Manhattan and Florida.
Her other sister, Mildred Froos, died in 2000.
She is survived by her sister, Judith R. Saidel of Albany; two nephews, Andrew, of Gaithersburg, Md., and Jonathan, of Albany; a niece, Lisa Saidel, also of Albany; and three grandnieces.
      
Ms. Riese is survived by a son, Roland Villars of Richmond, Va; a sister, Renée Hubert of Long Beach, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      
In 1937, Mrs. Hudson and her sister Dovie began a habit of going to the courthouse and trying to register ''for the heck of it,'' she wrote in the book.
Mrs. Fraad is survived by Ms. Henderson and another daughter, Dr. Martha F. Haffey, both of Manhattan; a sister, Janet Bradley of Tulsa; six grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      

        June Taylor, the Emmy-winning choreographer whose routines on ''The Jackie Gleason Show'' brought the chorus line into the television age, died on Sunday at a hospital in Miami, said her sister, Marilyn Gleason.
Besides her sister, of Fort Lauderdale, who married Gleason in 1975, Ms. Taylor is survived by a nephew, Craig Horwich of Chicago.
''
        Mrs. Gleason, who was a dancer in her sister's group, remarked that speed was a necessity.
Britton Stitt of San Francisco was her brother, not her sister.
      
In addition to her husband, father and stepmother, Ronnie M. Eldridge, a former City Councilwoman, she is survived by her sister, Kelly, and her brothers, James, Kevin, Patrick and Christopher.
      
As was the custom among German families in the area, Emma and her sister Anna, who died in 1992, worked side by side with their father, Fred, who died in 1966.
The cause was complications of cancer, said her sister, Barbara Haddad Ryan.
According to the daily newspaper Haaretz, she is survived by her second husband, Mordechai Horowitz; their son, Daniel; a daughter, Lali, from her first marriage; four grandchildren; a brother; and a sister.
      
Ms. Waldo is survived by her sister, Naomi Waldo Holtzman of Oakland, Calif.
'' She also starred in ''Golden Boy'' as Anna, the thoughtful sister of the hero, a sensitive boxer.
Until 1992, the company's two flagship newspapers, The San Diego Union and its afternoon sister paper, The San Diego Tribune, were the major competing papers in the city.
In addition to her son, David, of La Jolla, Mrs. Copley's survivors include a sister, Mary Frances Davison of Santa Maria, Calif.; a brother, Frank E. Kinney of Cedar Rapids; and two stepchildren from her husband's first marriage, Michael Copley of San Diego and Janice Obre of New York.
      
She is survived by her mother, Kathleen, who lived with her in East Quogue; two brothers, Mark and Billy, both of Manhattan; and a sister, Susan, of Connecticut.
      
She is survived by her sister, Lorraine Grey Heindorf, two nieces and two nephews.

        Geraldine Peroni, an Academy Award-nominated film editor known for her work with Robert Altman, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan, said her sister, Pamela O'Grady.
Besides her sister, of Belle Harbor, N.Y., she is survived by a brother, Peter, of Ormond Beach, Fla.
      
By the time Fay was 12 or 13, her parents had separated, a sister had died of the flu, and the family was struggling financially.
Julia Child is survived by a sister, Dorothy Cousins, of Mill Valley, Calif., and several nieces and nephews.
She had a short-lived gallery, Black and Herron, in SoHo in 1995, and with Mr. Walczak started Eyewash in Williamsburg in 1997..
        Ms. Herron is survived by a son, Erik, of New York City; by her parents, Robert and Sophie Herron, of Augusta, Ga.; by a sister, Theresa, of New York City; and by four brothers: Anthony and Vincent, both of Augusta; Robert, of Fairfield, Iowa; and Jimmy, of Oakland, Calif.
      
Ms. Radi died on Aug. 30, of pneumonia, her immune system severely weakened as a result of treatment for leukemia, said her sister, Selma al-Radi, speaking by telephone from the Lebanese capital.
They include her mother, Suad Munir Abbas; a brother, Abbad, of Abu Dhabi and Toronto, and her sister, Selma, a renowned archaeologist who has done extensive work on preserving historic buildings in Yemen.
He survives her, along with a sister, Magda, of Budapest; three children, Kati, of Manhattan, a journalist; Andrew, of Fort Worth; and Julia Marton-Lefevre of London; and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, who lives in Maryland and Manhattan, and Mrs. Greene of Coral Gables, Fla., she is survived by two sons, Neil and John of Baltimore; a sister, Joan B. Katz, also of Baltimore; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      

        Sister Nancy Salisbury, longtime headmistress of New York's oldest independent school for girls, the Convent of the Sacred Heart, died on Sept. 27 in Atherton, Calif. She was 74.
The cause was respiratory failure after a kidney infection, according to an announcement by the United States Province of the Society of the Sacred Heart, the Roman Catholic religious order she entered in 1952; according the practice of the order, she was known as Sister Salisbury.
In her 20 years as headmistress of Sacred Heart, which runs from prekindergarten to 12th grade, Sister Salisbury overhauled the school's curriculum, upgraded its facilities and nearly doubled its enrollment.
Sister Salisbury was also vice chairwoman of the board of the New York State Association of Independent Schools and head of its accreditation commission.
Sister Salisbury was born May 15, 1930, in New York and attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart in Overbrook, Pa., one of several schools across the country founded by the Society of the Sacred Heart.
Over the years, Sister Salisbury also sat on the boards of Sacred Heart schools in Albany, Miami and Greenwich.
Besides her daughter, Li-lan Gee, an artist who lives in Easthampton, L.I., she is survived by a sister, Ellen Berland, of Warren, Conn., and a brother, Henry Wimmer, of Bath, N.Y.
      
Besides her daughter, Li-lan Gee, an artist who lives in Easthampton, L.I., she is survived by a sister, Ellen Berland, of Warren, Conn., and a brother, Henry Wimmer, of Bath, N.Y.
      
''She was dedicated to understanding Islam for herself as opposed to Islam coming to us with all the cultural wrappings,'' said her sister Nafeesa Ahmad.
In addition to her daughter Nasreen Alkhateeb, of Brooklyn, and her sister Nafeesa Ahmad, of Oakland, Calif., Ms. Alkhateeb is survived by her husband, Mejdi; a brother, Muhammad Ahmad, of Horsham, Pa; her sisters Shahara Ahmad-Llewellyn of Manhattan and Sayyida Ahmad Jordan of Los Angeles; her daughters Layla Alkhateeb of Arlington, Va., and Maha Buthayna Alkhateeb of Potomac Falls, Va.; and a grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband; her parents, Beatrice and Michael Mezzacappa; and her sister, Diane Alvaro.
      
Her father was a fur trader in China, and her mother joined him there for long periods, leaving Susan and her younger sister in the care of relatives.
) Also surviving is her younger sister, Judith Cohen of Maui.
Ms. Hunter is survived by a sister, Naomi Gill of Newport News, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Florence Gittleman of Manhattan, and a brother, Irving A. Kaye of Boca Raton, Fla.
