She is survived by a brother, Louis Donadio of Tehachapi, Calif., and a sister, Frances Siliani of Florence, Italy.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Ball is survived by her mother, Lillian Harwell Carter of Pulaski, Tenn.; a sister, Paige Carter Garner of Nashville; and a daughter, Jayne Denison Ball of the Marshall Islands.
      
The cause was pneumonia, said her sister Katharine Graham, the former publisher of The Washington Post who is chairman of the Post Company's executive committee.
Ms. Tyson is survived by her companion, Saul Lishinsky of Manhattan; a sister, Lillian Cohen of Princeton, N.J.; and a brother, William Tyson of Philadelphia and Cascais, Portugal.
With her mother and sister accompanying her, as they did throughout her performing career, the 9-year-old girl joined a man who lifted weights with his eyelids and a 4-year-old girl with four legs and three arms in what Mr. Ripley had named his Odditorium.
In the early 1960's, she, her mother, her sister and her brother-in-law decided to move to Orange County, Calif., where Mr. Pushnik had settled.
''
        In addition to Karen Burstein, Justice Burstein is survived by her daughters Ellen, Patricia and Jessica, all of New York; two sons, John, of Camden, Me., and Judd, of Westport, Conn.; a sister, Helen Deutsch of Deerfield Beach, Fla.; and two grandsons.
In 1937, they borrowed $500 from Kitty's sister, Muriel, for a down payment on the first Cake Masters, at Broadway and 84th Street.
In addition to her daughter Barbara, of Oceanside, and her sister, Muriel Merritt, of San Antonio, Mrs. Buck is survived by another daughter, Joan Buck of Manhattan; five grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her mother, Ruth Jaffe, who married Rona Jaffe's father, and a sister, Susan Chapin of Washington.
      
She never saw her father again but was eventually reunited with her mother and sister.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Ariane Sutowski of San Diego, and a sister, Jeanette Errio of Vence, France.
      
; and a sister, Ona Gaither of Alexandria, Va.
      
She is survived by a sister, Yoshi Tanaka of Fallbrook, Calif.
      
When Ms. Lawry's brother, Bernard, was stricken with multiple sclerosis in 1945, she and her sister Alice placed a classified advertisement in The New York Times: ''Multiple sclerosis.
Her sister Alice helped.
Her other sister, Lillian, and her husband, Stanley Wilson, founded one of the first local chapters, in the Bronx.
The cause was cancer, said her sister, Andra Bernhardt Ladd.
Dr. Bernhardt is survived by her sister, of Lafayette, La.
She is survived by her sister, Patricia Gill of Gloucester, Va., and two granddaughters.
; a sister, Audrey Riker of Whitehall, Md.
She also appeared in five feature films, her  most famous role being Sister Berthe in ''The Sound of Music.
''
        Ms. Sothern is survived by her  daughter, Tisha Sterling, an actress and designer; a sister, Sally Adams of Boise, Idaho; and a granddaughter.
'' She also played Louise Jefferson's sister on ''The Jeffersons'' and appeared on ''The Cosby Show.
Timothy Fales of Paris; a son,  Enrico Fales; a daughter, Susan Fales-Hill; and a sister, Adele Premice, all of New York.
      
Ms. Gritsavage is survived by a sister, Jennie Clard.
      
Dr. Payton is survived by her sister, Jean Robertson Scott of Washington.
      
Dr. Rives is survived by Dr. Difede and their son, Hal Difede Rives; her parents, Barbara and Hal Rives of Tucker, Ga.; a brother, Jack Rives of Roswell, Ga.; and a sister, Dr. Cathy Rives.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Eugenia Dunham, and a sister, Zoya Slive, both of Cambridge, Mass.
; Kim, of Boulder, Colo.; Patricia and Maureen, of Rutherford; Fran White of Dallas; and Jeanne, of Manhattan; their sons, Benedict 3rd, of Ramsey, N.J.; Timothy and Jerry, of Rutherford; and Dan, of East Rutherford; two brothers, Dr. Gerald Rubacky of Monclair, N.J., and Joseph Rubacky of Wyckoff; a sister, Ellen Tobin of Bay Head, N.J.; and 11 grandchildren.
She died of congestive heart failure, said her sister, Franchon Moore.
Her sister, her only survivor, lives in Houston.
      
She is survived by two brothers, William Dubois of Brookville, N.Y., and Harold Winters of Manhattan; a sister, Barbara Hagani of Kings Point, N.Y.; and three stepsons.
      
They are a sister, Rosi Kuerti of Cleveland, and a brother, Fritz Jahoda of Concord, Mass.
      

        Yaltah Menuhin, a pianist and the younger sister of the violinist Yehudi Menuhin, died on Saturday, The Times of London reported.
But like her older sister, Hephzibah, she was attracted to the piano rather than the violin.
Occasionally she performed with her brother as an accompanist and chamber music partner, and she sometimes played piano duets with her sister as well.
Her brothers had performed as a trio, and Ms. Mendoza began performing duets with her sister, Perla.
Yvonne Dionne, considered the most artistic of the sisters, made several attempts to join a convent before settling in St. Bruno in the home of her sister, Annette.
In addition to her sons, Mrs. Wirth is survived by her twin sister, Mercedes Bowman of Rome; a brother, Robert Bucher of Geneva; and five grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Donald, she is survived by her daughter, Elizabeth Weymouth, known as Lally; her sons William and Stephen; a sister, Ruth Epstein of Bronxville, N.Y.; 10 grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Borgenicht is survived by her sister, Shirley Black Cash of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Westport, Conn.; three daughters from her first marriage, Jan Schwartz of Los Gatos, Calif., Berta B. Kerr of Wilmington, Del., and Lois Borgenicht of Baltimore; a stepdaughter, Isabella Brandt Johansen of New York City; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Brennan is survived by two sons, Richard Lee Brennan of Manhattan and Christopher Herrick Brennan of Feasterville, Pa., and a sister, Lee M. Wrenn of Orcas Island, Wash.
      
She followed her sister Yvonne, to the piano class of Lazare Levy at the Paris Conservatory, where she soon became fascinated by the new instrument.
Her high grades enabled her to join a quartet begun by Martenot's sister, Ginette.
''
        One early composer who took an immediate liking to the ondes martenot was Olivier Messiaen, who married Jeanne's sister Yvonne Loriod; she became a renowned pianist.
Virtually everywhere ''Turangalila'' was performed, Jeanne Loriod was to be found, her sister often playing the virtuoso piano part.
In addition to Yvonne, Miss Loriod is survived by another sister, Jacqueline.
And in a more recent turn she was the avenging nun, Sister Mary Stigmata, opposite John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd in ''The Blues Brothers'' (1980).
She is survived by her husband, of Bristol, R.I., her mother, a brother and a sister.
''
        Mrs. Newhouse also put the bite on her niece  Caroline Diamond Harrison, noting pointedly that Mrs. Harrison's sister Alison Diamond Levasseur is on the junior committee of the New York City Opera, and that she too should have something to do.
''
        Besides Jonathan, of Manhattan, Mrs. Scull is survived by two other sons, Adam, of Miami Beach, and Stephen Paul, of Los Angeles; a sister, Lillian Kaplan of New York and Florida; and two grandchildren.
With her older sister, Hattie Gold, and her younger sister, Anne Federman, Mrs. Schwartz grew up working in the business begun as a pushcart in 1914 by their father.
With her older sister, Hattie Gold, and her younger sister, Anne Federman, Mrs. Schwartz grew up working in the business begun as a pushcart in 1914 by their father.
She is survived by a daughter, Margaret Dvonch Swingle, of Bainbridge Island; a sister, Faye Popper, of Indianapolis; three grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      
''
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Pauline Ritchie-Fallon, of Lymington, England.
      
The cause was breast cancer, said her sister, Cheryl Payer, her only immediate relative.
Ms. Brée is survived by a sister, Murielle Laure Radcliffe, of Wokingham, England.
      
Ms. Brée is survived by a sister, Murielle Laure Radcliffe, of Wokingham, England.
      
Mrs. Olson is survived by her brother, David Bracher, and her sister, Antoinette Lawrence, both of Houston, as well as her husband.
      
With her sister, Marisa, a widely known model of that era who became an actress, Ms. Perkins captured the attention of fashion editors and society columnists.
In addition to her sister, of New York, Ms. Perkins is survived by her sons, both of Los Angeles, and her mother, the Marchesa Cacciapuoti di Giugliano, of Paris.
While visiting New York in early July, she told friends she planned to see her sister and mother in Europe and then return to her Cape Cod cottage.
      
Though familiar Off Broadway, Ms. Foster became famous on Broadway in 1995 as Sadie Delany, the gracious 103-year-old whose story, and that of her more vinegary 101-year-old sister, Bessie, was told in Emily Mann's ''Having Our Say.
She is survived by a sister, Leni Goodman, of Manhattan.
      
; 15 grandchildren; and a sister, Judith Pestronk of Lido Beach, N.Y.
      
Her job was as a temporary replacement for Ella Johnson, Buddy Johnson's sister, who was on a maternity leave.
In addition to Ms. Waits, of Silver Spring, Md., Ms. Shanahan is survived by another daughter, Kathleen Waits of Tulsa, Okla.; a sister, Dr. Kathleen Shanahan Cohen of Teaneck, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
Surviving are her husband, Bart Rhoades; two stepsons, Andrew and Matthew Rhoades; a stepdaughter, Elizabeth Rhoades; and a sister,  Nhumey Tropp.
      
Later television credits included ''You're Only Young Twice'' and an appearance as a formidable Sister of Mercy in the ''Inspector Morse'' series.
The cause was complications from pneumonia she contracted after a fire last year at her permanent home in Fullerton, Calif., said Patsy Myers, her sister.
She is survived by her sister, of San Francisco.
      
''
        She is survived by her father, Francis Coleman; her mother, Ann Beach; and her sister, Lisa.
      
At the age of 7, an older brother and sister having already left home, she began cooking and caring for her father, an invalid who had been in a sanatorium with tuberculosis for three years
        She was married at 17.
She is survived by her husband  and a sister, Miriam Siegel of Lutz, Fla.
      
At the age of 7, an older brother and sister having already left home, she began cooking and caring for her father, an invalid who had been in a sanatorium with tuberculosis for three years.
In addition to her husband, Miss Newman is survived by a daughter, Sandy Newman, and a son, Dr. Neal Newman, both of Columbus, Ohio; a stepson, Bob Berkowitz, of Manhattan; a brother, Martin Rubenstein, of East Hampton, N.Y.; a sister, Ruth Hinkes, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
She and her sister, Joan Donovan, saw nothing of their father, who left the family early, and the girls did not live regularly with their mother until 1942, when the independent-minded Margaret was working for a war production factory in Brooklyn.
All her career, Ms. Donovan, who  is survived by her sister, of Cambridge, Mass., left the impression that she and Margaret were opposites.
The cause was a brain hemorrhage, said her sister, Mira Schor.
Her sister said she devoured books and seldom went outdoors, leading neighbors to think that the family had only one daughter.
In addition to her husband and sister, she is survived by her mother, who lives in Manhattan.
Ms. Voorsanger is survived by her husband, Bartholomew Voorsanger, an architect who designed the renovation of the Asia Society and the expansion of the Morgan Library; her mother, Beatrice Slater, of San Rafael, Calif.; and her sister, Holly de Montmarin, of Paris.
Besides her husband, she is survived by three daughters, Bunny Mayersohn, Lynn Schneider Joseph and Mindy Schneider Lesser; five grandchildren; and a sister, Anne Jacobs.
      
