Her life and work were part of the inspiration for the Broadway play ''The Sisters Rosensweig,'' which was written by her sister, Wendy Wasserstein.
In addition to her sister, Wendy Wasserstein, of New York, Mrs. Meyer is survived by two daughters; Jenifer Schweitzer, of New York and Samantha Schweitzer, of San Francisco; another sister, Georgette Levis, of Manchester, Vt.; a brother, Bruce Wasserstein, of New York, and her parents, Lola and Morris Wasserstein, of New York.
      
In addition to her sister, Wendy Wasserstein, of New York, Mrs. Meyer is survived by two daughters; Jenifer Schweitzer, of New York and Samantha Schweitzer, of San Francisco; another sister, Georgette Levis, of Manchester, Vt.; a brother, Bruce Wasserstein, of New York, and her parents, Lola and Morris Wasserstein, of New York.
      
; a sister, Winifred I. Warner of Laurel Hollow, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sister, Alice Hawkins of Santa Monica, Calif.
      

        Sister Bernadette Szymczak, who fought hunger and despair with such loving zeal that she turned a tiny Brooklyn food program into a mighty engine of sustenance and hope, died Monday at Long Island College Hospital.
On paper, the soup kitchen Sister Bernadette founded in 1982 at the old red-brick campus of St. John's University on Lewis Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant would seem impressive enough.
But to those who knew Sister Bernadette and fell under her spell, the numbers hardly measure her impact on the lives of those most food agencies regard as clients and Sister Bernadette knew only as guests.
But to those who knew Sister Bernadette and fell under her spell, the numbers hardly measure her impact on the lives of those most food agencies regard as clients and Sister Bernadette knew only as guests.
''She turned my life around,'' said Bill Baker, a one-time drug addict and petty criminal, recalling yesterday that his road to personal salvation began one freezing January day a few years ago when he stopped by St. John's for a warming cup of coffee and was approached by Sister Bernadette.
''
        Like countless other street toughs before and after him, Mr. Baker, who had just got out of jail, found himself on his feet taking the first steps with a load of trays that would lead him  into Sister Bernadette's world of service before self.
''The next day I came in a little earlier,'' he said, recalling the beginning of a slow, often-painful process that would, under Sister Bernadette's gentle goading, lead him to become a full-time volunteer, to abandon drugs and, finally, to join the kitchen's small staff.
Then came the Reagan Administration cutbacks of 1981, and as the need for food began to soar, Sister Bernadette, who had already established a thrift shop and an adult education program, started the soup kitchen, initially serving 15 or so meals a day.
For all her charity, Sister Bernadette, whose idea of a hobby was to do a bit of sewing, then give her handiwork away, was not completely above a taste for luxury.
Besides Mr. Osmundsen, she is survived by twin children, Jonathan Eric, of Washington, and Mirjana Erika Dougherty of Baltimore; her father, Irvin Binns of the Bronx; a sister, Heather Habeger of New City, N.Y.; a brother, Roger Binns of Wayne, Pa., and one granddaughter.
      
; and a sister, Frances Stover of Wilmington, N.C.
      
Besides her husband of 59 years, she is survived by two sons, both theoretical physicists, Dr. Alfred Goldhaber of Setauket, N.Y., and Dr. Michael Goldhaber of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Liselotte Leoni of Nice, France, and two grandchildren.
When she was not listening to her mother and grandmother tell stories about the old days, Mary Lou would play with her sister and her friends.
What happened was that Mary Lou and her sister felt sorry for two little girls they knew.
And when their friends' stepfather bought new shoes for his own daughters but none for them, Mary Lou and her sister took their own Sunday shoes and gave them to their friends.
Mrs. Milbank is survived by her husband; her children, Sandra Rodgers of Winchester, Mass., Gail Moloney of Greenwich, Conn., Lynn Manger of Manhattan and John W. Sheppard Jr. of Darien, Conn.; a brother, Lionel Jackson of Montecito, Calif.; a sister, Katharine Reese of Havre de Grace, Md., and 11 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Barbara C. Marziali of Charlottesville, Va.; a son, F. Bosley Crowther 4th of Los Angeles; a brother, Edward George Benson Jr. of Storrs, Conn. and a sister, M. Ophelia Benson of Seattle.
      
Sister Parish, the white-gloved martinet of American decorating, dismissed them with chilling politesse: ''Chessy is a nice girl.
Throughout his life he referred to her as his ''baby sister,'' and when Mrs. Hutson came to Harlem as a young woman, Hughes made sure she met the leading writers and artists.
In addition to her daughter, Christine Gutherie of San Francisco, Mrs. Kampen is survived by her companion, Louis Ferioli, and a sister, Joyce Miller of Washington.
      
The Countess is survived by a son, Paul, and a daughter, Gladys Szapary, both of Manhattan, and a sister, Countess Ferdinandine Eltz of Salzburg, Austria.
Dr. Wakin is survived by a son, Daniel, an Associated Press correspondent in Rome; a sister, Mary Lou Wakin of Manhattan; a brother, Joseph Wakin of Stamford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Professor Stamler is survived by a son, Paul J., of St. Louis, and a sister, Gertrude Asher of the Bronx.
      
Nena Manach was born in Tembleque, Spain, and grew up in Cuba, the only sister of Jorge Manach, an author and a biographer of Jose Marti.
She is survived by four daughters, Mary Jo Nocero of Orlando, Fla., Eileen Hult of Milwaukee, Betty J. Santangelo of Manhasset and Patricia A. Santangelo of Manhattan; a son, Charles A. Santangelo, of Washington; a sister, Rose Santangelo of Harrison, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
She died of cancer, her sister, Anne Ferry, said.
Ms. Davidson, who was known as Bunny, was born in New York City in 1927 and grew up on the Upper East Side, where she and her sister regularly visited the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
She is survived by her sister, of Cambridge, Mass.
Her older sister, Mary (Minnie) Cushing, was married to Vincent Astor, the wealthy real estate owner, and after a divorce, to James Whitney Fosburgh, an artist.
Babe Paley, a perennial name on the world's best-dressed list and a glittering figure in society, also died in 1978, at 62, four months before her older sister.
''
        In addition, the Whitneys shared a renowned Kentucky horse farm, which also bore the name Greentree, with Mr. Whitney's sister, Joan Whitney Payson.
She is survived by a son, John M., and a sister, Edith Smolen, both of Manhattan.
      
Ms. Rysanek is survived by her husband of nearly 30 years, Ernst-Ludwig Gausmann, a former journalist; a stepson, Marcus Gausmann; a brother, Kurt, and sister, Lotte Rysanek, who was a lyric soprano with the Vienna State Opera.
Dr. Watkin, who created some confusion by marrying and later divorcing a man with the same surname as her own, is survived by a son, Daniel, an Associated Press correspondent in Rome; a sister, Mary Lou Wakin of Manhattan; a brother, Joseph Wakin of Stamford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughters, Eve and Liz, Ms. Abzug is survived by her sister, Helene Alexander of Great Neck, N.Y.
        ''I've been described as a tough and noisy woman, a prizefighter, a man hater, you name it,'' Ms. Abzug said of herself in ''Bella.
But even after her cancer was diagnosed in 1992 and she began the long, painful ordeal of therapy, Miss Cisyk, who is also survived by her older sister, Maria, a concert pianist and teacher who lives in Ridgefield, Conn., continued to work, singing her last professional jingle just a few months ago.

        Sister Jogues Egan, a former provincial superior and college administrator in the Order of the Sacred Heart of Mary and an associate dean at Empire State College who briefly went to jail for her antiwar convictions in 1971, died on Monday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. She was 79 and had lived at Marymount Convent in Tarrytown, N.Y., since her retirement in 1992.
The Irish-born Sister Jogues (pronounced zhogs) was the Superior of Eastern American Province when the Government sought to link her to the so-called Kissinger plot involving the Rev.
Sister Jogues was ordered to testify before a Federal grand jury about any knowledge she might have had of the matter, but she refused.
Sister Jogues asserted in court that the questions put to her stemmed from illegal wiretaps placed by Federal agents on the religious order's telephones as far away as its headquarters in Rome.
Sister Jogues is survived by a sister, Kate Egan Neville of Wexford, Ireland.
      
Sister Jogues is survived by a sister, Kate Egan Neville of Wexford, Ireland.
      
In addition to her son Drew, of Brooklyn, she is survived by her husband, Donald; two other sons, Douglas, of Brooklyn and Steven, of Glen Ridge, N.J.; her mother, Eunice Burton of Austin, Minn.; a sister, Victoria Swedish of Madison, Wis.; a brother, Robert, of Indianapolis and four grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Vincent Connelly, who is a partner at the Chicago law firm of Mayer, Brown & Platt; two daughters, Courtney and Carleigh; a son, Robert; a sister, Mary Fitzgerald, and a brother, Thomas Fitzgerald, both of Arlington Heights, Ill.
      
She is survived by a son, Anthony, of Pittsford, N.Y.; a granddaugther, and a sister.
      
Ms. Epstein, who is survived by two brothers, Mel and Sheldon Green, and a sister, Barbara Levin, all of Chicago, where Tender Buttons also has a store, made sure the business would survive her.
Besides Mr. Pringle, she is survived by her father, William Wolsky of Brooklyn; her mother and stepfather, Joyce and Lloyd Greenidge of Brant Lake, N.Y.; a brother, William Jr., of Spring Hill, Fla., and a sister, Leanne Wolsky of Queens.
      
Ms. Hoepli-Phalon is survived by her husband, Richard A. Phalon Sr., a contributing editor of Forbes magazine; a sister, Eleonore A. Hoepli Didriksen of Wellesley, Mass.
She is survived by a sister, Judy Connolly of Dublin.
Ms. Rockmore is survived by a sister, Anna Sherman of Manhattan.
      
''
        Miss Nolan, who could produce an Irish dialect or Spanish, Italian, German or Russian accent on demand, also appeared on CBS's ''Big Sister'' series and ''The Court of Missing Heirs.
Besides her daughter, Miss Nolan is survived by her sister, Miriam Walker of Ashland, Ore., and a grandson.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, William Damon of Manhattan; a sister, Nancy Keiser of Springfield, Mo., and a brother, John, of Fargo, N.D.
      

        Helen Carter, a singer and musician who was part of the Carter family dynasty of country-music entertainers, died on Tuesday at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn. She was 70 and lived in Dickson, Tenn.
        She had been hospitalized for gastrointestinal problems that began over a year ago, said Kelly Hancock of House of Cash, the business office of Johnny Cash, Mrs. Carter's brother-in-law, and of her sister June Carter Cash.
For example, she appeared on television with her sister June and  Mr. Cash.
In addition to her sister June, of Hendersonville, Va., she is survived by her husband, Glenn Jones of Dickson, Tenn.; another sister, Anita Carter of Goodlettsville, Tenn.; three sons, Glenn Daniel, David Lawrence, and Kevin Carter Jones, all of Dickson, and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sister June, of Hendersonville, Va., she is survived by her husband, Glenn Jones of Dickson, Tenn.; another sister, Anita Carter of Goodlettsville, Tenn.; three sons, Glenn Daniel, David Lawrence, and Kevin Carter Jones, all of Dickson, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Laurie Zucker of Athens, Ohio, and Alix Nelson Frick of Manhattan, the president of Franklin Spier Advertising; a sister, Lillian Ovberg of Glen Cove, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Robert Aiken of Washington; a sister, Carmen Zincke of Madrid; a brother, Henry Arizmendi of Tenafly, N.J., and three granddaughters.
      
; a sister, Abby Sawilowsky, of Oak Park, Mich., and two brothers, Miron Surasky of Oakland, Calif., and Charles Surasky of Yardley, Pa.
      
She illustrated his ''Baby Sister for Frances'' (1964) and drew the pictures for five more books in that series about Frances and her family.
After the couple divorced in 1975, she began writing and illustrating an ''I Can Read Books'' series about Arthur and his little sister, Violet.
; a sister, Esther Man of Los Angeles, and six grandchildren.
Mrs. Smith is survived by her husband, Robert Kimmel Smith, an author; a daughter, Heidi M. Smith of San Francisco; a son, Roger K. Smith of New York City, and a sister, Harriet M. Levine of Orangeburg, N.Y.
      

        Sister Irene Kraus, a onetime schoolteacher with such a high-spirited talent for leadership and such hard-nosed business ability that she went on to run a series of hospitals and spend six years as the founding chief executive of the $3 billion Daughters of Charity National Health System, died Aug. 20 at a hospital in Baltimore.
But then for Sister Irene, who grew up in Philadelphia, the religious life seems to have been a foregone family conclusion.
''
        A standout student at the Daughters of Charity's Elizabeth Seton High School in Baltimore, Sister Irene graduated at 17 in 1941 and immediately joined the religious order.
When the five autonomous American provinces of the Daughters of Charity decided to consolidate their hospital systems in 1986, Sister Irene was the obvious choice to put the merger into effect and run the operation, which included three dozen hospitals and 19 other operations in 17 states with a combined annual budget of more than $3 billion.
In addition to its embrace of women's potential, the religious order gave Sister Irene other advantages.
In a business world where women have had to pick their way through contradictory advice on how to dress for success, Sister Irene never had a wardrobe worry.
If the men she encountered were unaccustomed to dealing with a hard-driving business woman in a habit, Sister Irene, a raconteur with an impish sense of humor, knew how to put them at ease and rarely stopped there.
At stodgy gatherings, Sister Irene, a tall, imposing woman with a commanding laugh, would sometimes break into an impromptu dance.
And when she got up from her seat at a formal dinner to ''work the room,'' Sister Irene would be easy to track: She inevitably left a trail of laughter in her wake.
During a career in which she served on more than 70 national boards and committees, Sister Irene became accustomed to being the only woman in the room.
''
        For all her accomplishments as president of the national system, Sister Irene, who later ran a hospital in Pensacola, Fla., and was still vice chairman of the merged Baptist St. Vincent's Hospital system in Jacksonville, Fla., at the time of her death, said her proudest achievement was developing a five-point value system for the national chain.
The fifth, ''Be Creative to Infinity,'' sounded exactly like Sister Irene.
Sister Irene is survived by three sisters, Gertrude Hunter and Maguerite Williams of Bel Air, Md., and Dolores Freeman of Willards, Md.
      
She is survived by a brother, Nelson E. Deveneau of Salisbury, Mass., and a sister, Marion D. Stevens of Lee, N.H.
      
Ms. Mosby is survived by a sister, Mary Jane Bader of Escondido.
      
At the time, in 1981, Mr. Brown's sister, Dona, said, ''They never dated, but the families kept up with one another.
In addition to her husband, her mother and her brother, she is survived by a son, Diego, two daughters, Giulia and Maria, two other brothers, Leonardo and Massimo, a sister, Fulvia Visconti Ferragamo, all of Florence; and another sister, Giovanna Gentile Ferragamo, of Milan.
In addition to her husband, her mother and her brother, she is survived by a son, Diego, two daughters, Giulia and Maria, two other brothers, Leonardo and Massimo, a sister, Fulvia Visconti Ferragamo, all of Florence; and another sister, Giovanna Gentile Ferragamo, of Milan.
A sister, Helen Rhinelander Schreuer of Dinard, France, survives.
      

        Inge Aicher-Scholl, who inspired a generation of pacifists in post-World War II Germany by writing about an anti-Nazi youth movement and the killing of her brother and sister, died on Friday.
Mrs. Aicher-Scholl moved millions of Germans toward nonviolence by chronicling the activities of the White Rose, a student movement whose leaders included her younger brother and sister, Hans and Sophie Scholl.
Ms. Julien took her own life at her home after leaving a note saying she did not want to be revived, said her sister, Fabienne Julien.
She was a sister of the late Bosley Crowther, a film critic for The New York Times.
Miss Parla is survived by a daughter, Ileana Comas, and a sister, Zilia Navarete, both of Miami, and two grandsons.
      
To be sure, Mrs. Lukens, who told David's story in a 1989 novella, ''Song of David,'' had some help, including loving assistance from her husband, Dr. John H. Lukens, a clinical psychologist, from David's four siblings, including his little sister, and from other parents, some of whom moved to Rockland County so they could join Mrs. Lukens's enterprise and their children could benefit from Camp Venture.
Besides Ms. Kleinhans and Dr. Korein, both of Manhattan, Mrs. Korein is survived by her sister, Esther Kessler of Naples, Fla.; four grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her son; a sister, Tamara Nijinsky of Phoenix, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son; a sister, Tamara Nijinsky of Phoenix, and four grandchildren.
      
Dr. Storch is survived by Jean Hewitt, her partner of 20 years, and a  sister, Suzanne Storch of Inverness, Calif.
        (American Medical Association)  Marcia L. Storch wanted patients to help make the decisions.
      
She had a theatrical bent and after high school followed her sister, Rosanna Carter, also an actress, to New York.
In 1958 she and her sister appeared with the company in a revival of Asadata Dafora's ''Zunguru.
Mrs. Shaw is survived by her husband, Donald H. Shaw; her mother, Martha Henning of Westwood; two other stepdaughters, Victoria Louise Shaw-Williamson and Donaly Shaw, both of Manhattan, and a sister, Jean Cockcroft of Westwood.
      
Her lifelong association with Nijinska, sister of Vaslav Nijinsky and a leading experimental choreographer, began when Ms. Youshkevitch, then 10 years old, joined the corps de ballet of the Opera Russe de Paris.
''
        Ms. Godden's precocity was evident during her early days in Bengal, where she wrote a fictional autobiography at age 7, vying with her sister Jon -- who also became a writer -- for the family literary laurels.
She is survived by her husband, Sam Gulkin; a brother, Dr. Martin Kurman of Manhattan, and a sister, Bernice Winarsky of Springfield.
      
'' She was a frequent guest on the television series ''That Girl'' and ''Bewitched,'' in which she played Agnes Moorehead's sister.
In addition to Mr. Jaeckel, Miss Benjamin is survived by a sister, Yolanda Jaeckel of Cranbury, N.J.; another nephew, Theodore Jaeckel of Princeton Junction, N.J., and a niece, Pamela Oppen of Hunter.
      
Her sister, Gladys Semino, had predeceased her.
''
        She is survived by her sister, Janet Sovin of Berkeley, Calif., and her brother, David, of Huntington Station, N.Y.
        Ms. Roberts's major passions were theater and horses.
Ms. Arron is survived, in addition to her husband, by two sons, Joseph and Edward of Manhattan; her parents, Richard and Berenice Hagerty La Quinta, Calif.; a sister, Colleen Fretz of Belize, and two brothers, Richard Hagerty Jr. of Modesto, Calif., and Dale Hagerty also of La Quinta.
