; a daughter, Wendi Rose of New York; a son, Andrew Rose of Santa Monica, Calif., and a sister, Barbara Lembo of New York.
      
She was the widow of Samuel Dushkin, the concert violinist, who died in 1976 after 40 years of marriage, and a sister of James Rorimer, former director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
"
        In addition to her son Gregory, of Pownal, Miss Howes is survived by another  son, David Smith of Manhattan and a sister, Priscilla Howes Grant of Middlebury, Vt.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, the actress Jayne Meadows.
It was her sister, Jayne, two years older, who steered her into acting.
Mrs. Bernstein is survived by three daughters, Elinor B. Balka of Forest Hills, Queens, Kate L. Bernstein of Manhattan, and Anne L. Bernstein of Seattle; a sister, Alice Lotwin of Peoria, Ill., and three grandchildren.
Mrs. Lewis is survived by her husband of 65 years, Edward Lewis; two sons, Dr. Jeffrey Lewis of Armonk, N.Y., and Dr. Michael Lewis of Nashville, Tenn.; a  sister, Beatrice Smith of Franklin Square, L.I., and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Gul Hameed Bhatti; two children, Kamil and Sara; a sister, Fareeda Boudrey, and three brothers, Karim, Rahim and Rafeeg Boudry, all of Karachi.
      
"
        Miss Henderson is survived by a sister, Frances Houff of Lynchburg, Va., a nephew, four nieces and several great-nieces and nephews.
      
; a son, John H., of Ithaca, N.Y; a sister, Barbara Vineyard of Sanibel, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Emma Richardson of Houston.
      
But although her own sister once described her as an unloved child, her childhood served her well, providing the swirling fox-hunting background and social intrigue she drew on for more than a dozen novels and five plays.
Miss Allen is survived by her mother, Shirley Adsit, and her sister, Louisa Brownell.
      
She is survived by a sister, Jean Berdan of Washington.
      
She is survived by a sister, Georgina Meredith-Jones.
      
Mrs. Woodward is survived by her husband, Roland H. Woodward; three daughters, E. Rebecca, 17, Hannah C., 13, and Sarah M., 9; her parents, Albert G. Spivey Jr. and Jane K. Spivey of Kennett Square, Pa., and her sister, J. Carlisle Spivey of Greenwich, Conn.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Bettina Gray of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.; a daughter, Elisabeth Goth of Del Mar, Calif.; three brothers, Christopher Bancroft of Denton, Tex., Hugh Bancroft 3d of Aspen, Colo., and William P. Liscomb 3d of Carlsbad, Calif., and a sister, Kathryn Kavadas of Waban, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. George A. Carden; three sons, Dr. George  Alexander Carden of Palm Beach, Fla., William of Manhattan and Timothy of Montclair, N.J.; a daughter, Constance of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and a sister, Jeanet Curtis of New Haven.
Tragedy struck again in 1964 when her sister, Rietta Grotefent, died in a fall from the wire.
She served in the same unit as the Princess Royal, now Queen Elizabeth II, and her sister, Princess Margaret.
Besides her husband of 56 years and her sons Peter, of Manhattan, and Rodney, of Morristown, she is survived by another son, Frederick, of Tucson, Ariz.; two  daughters, Beatrice van Roijen of Washington and Adaline Ogilvie-Laing of Manhattan, 13 grandchildren and a sister, Mrs. Anson Phelps Stokes Jr.
      
She is survived by a sister, Judith Gideon of Manhattan; a daughter-in-law, Petra Ewen of Roanoke, Va., and three grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by a sister, Ann Condon of Seattle.
      
She is survived by her husband, Rick Schwolsky of Grafton; her mother, Patricia Beattie of Ketchum, Idaho, and a sister, Jane Beattie, also of Ketchum.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by a brother, Henry P. van Ameringen of Manhattan; a sister, Patricia Kind of Huntingdon Valley, Pa., and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Weiner is survived by her husband, Charles J., a daughter, Toby White, two sons, Barry and Steve, a sister, Miriam Komesar, and a brother, Saul Weinberg, all of Atlanta, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, T. Kelly of Bellingham, Wash.
      
She also performed with her sister, Elizabeth, in the late 1920's at the Neighborhood Playhouse.
She is survived by her sister, of Manhattan.
      
"
        Justice Amsterdam is survived by a sister and brother-in-law, Cynthia and Judge Milton Sanders, with whom she shared a home on Second Avenue for 59 years, as well as another sister, Sybil Chizner of Hollywood, Fla.
"
        Justice Amsterdam is survived by a sister and brother-in-law, Cynthia and Judge Milton Sanders, with whom she shared a home on Second Avenue for 59 years, as well as another sister, Sybil Chizner of Hollywood, Fla.
Correction:  July 11, 1996, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday of Justice Birdie Amsterdam, the first woman elected to New York State Supreme Court, misstated the given name of a surviving sister.
She is survived by a son, Michael, of Tampa, Fla.; a daughter, Allegra, of Manhattan; a sister, Degna Paresce of Rome, and two grandchildren.
Miss Mitford's eldest sister, Nancy, became a novelist, and is best remembered for "The Pursuit of Love" and "Love in a Cold Climate.
Early in life, Miss Mitford shared a sitting room with her sister Unity, who  adorned it with swastikas.
One sister is Deborah, Duchess of Devonshire.
The other sister is Lady Diana Mosley.
Her sister Deborah was the youngest.
      
Her father died before the war, and she lost her mother, a sister, a brother  and two nephews in the Holocaust.
Her only immediate survivor is a sister, Rachela Malezin of Teaneck, N.J.
      
She made her screen debut in the "Lipstick" in 1976,  opposite her younger sister, Mariel.
She made her screen debut in "Lipstick" in 1976, opposite her younger sister, Mariel.
Ms. Hemingway's acting career faltered, while her sister fared better, appearing in films like Woody Allen's "Manhattan.
In addition to her sister, she is survived by her father and stepmother.
      

        Erna Lane, a dancer who as a child was one of the first students of Elizabeth Duncan, Isadora Duncan's sister, died on June 28 at Hillcrest Hospital in Pittsfield, Mass.
She is survived by two sisters, Sister Mary Frederick of Greensburg, Pa., and Bernadette B. McCloskey of Los Angeles, and a brother, Joseph A. Blatt of Pittsburgh.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Jean Hershell of Tinton Falls, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, David, of Wayne, N.J.; a daughter, Pamela, of Chicago; a sister, Marlene Bagdikian of Berkeley, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
The cause was a pulmonary embolism, said Dorothy Dow, a sister.
In addition to her son Joshua, she is survived by another son, Jonas Cohn Livingston, both of Los Angeles; a daughter, Jennie Livingston of New York City, a film maker; a grandson, Richard Gibbons Livingston, and a sister, Hannah Pakula, a biographer.
      
She is survived by a sister, Janice, of Orange County, Calif.
      
; a stepdaughter, Elisabeth Ryden of Scottsdale, Ariz.; a sister, Virginia Weaver of Davenport, Fla.; 11 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Mongan is survived by her sister, Elizabeth, a former curator of prints at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, of Pigeon Cove, Mass.
      
Mrs. Johnson is survived by a sister, Adele P. Comjean of Concord, Mass.
      
; Priscilla, of Kenya and Margaret, of Montana; two brothers, Frank Bottomley of Ohio and Bruce, of New Hampshire; a sister, Frances Broomhead of Rhode Island, and 13 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; three daughters, Nina, of Washington, Jill, of Manhattan, and Amy, of Atlanta; four grandchildren, and a sister, Louisa Schwartz of Washington.
      
She is survived by her sister, Joan Rodriquez of Yonkers.
      
''
        Ms. Carlin is survived by her husband, John; two daughters, Suzanne Rianhard of San Francisco and Elizabeth Carlin of New York; her mother, Arlene Hough of Atlanta, and a sister, Janet Allen of Dallas.
      
She is survived by a sister, Anna Mae Dufty, of Pueblo, Colo.; two brothers, George K. Jones, of West Roxbury, Mass., and Elmer E. Jones, of Weston, Mass.

        Beryl Reid, the versatile British character actress who won a Tony Award in 1967 for her performance in ''The Killing of Sister George'' and was one of the most popular stars on the London stage and on British television, died on Sunday.
She had her greatest success as June Buckridge in Frank Marcus's ''Killing of Sister George.
'' June was a lusty, cigar-smoking soap opera actress whose role as a rural nurse named Sister George was being excised from a long-running radio serial.
Sister George became her signature role, but it was one of several peaks in her career.
She is survived by her husband of four years, William D. Thompson; three daughters, Linda Coleman of Southampton, L.I., and Penny Coleman and Susan C. Bynum, both of Manhattan; a son, Payson Coleman of Old Brookville; a sister, Patricia Bonicatti of Rome; a brother, Peter S. Wainwright of Scottsdale, Ariz., and nine grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Mary Lonsdale Hickler of Warwick, Mass.
      
; a sister, Sylvia Goldman of Riverdale, the Bronx; a brother, Alfred Leffel of Syosset, L.I., 10 grandchildren and 24 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Charles H., of Pottersville, N.J., and Perry S. 3d, of Bernardsville, N.J.; a daughter, Esther B. Wilkens of Darien, Conn.; a sister, Anne H. Boynton of Stonington, Conn., and eight grandchildren.
      
Their families lived in the same apartment house, at 107th Street and Fifth Avenue, where George, whose father had died, kept a close eye on his little sister, who was Ruth Lewis's best friend.
Mrs. Kahlenberg is survived by a brother, Gunthur Wallheimer, and a sister, Helga Ekker, both of Amsterdam.
      
Mrs. Woodruff is survived by a sister, Gwendolyn Williams of Petersburg, Va., and a brother, Leon Rochester of East Orange.
Professor Salken is survived by her husband, Matthew Rosen; a son, Billy; a sister, Judy Salken of Mahopac, N.Y., and her parents, Doris and Irvin Salken of Williamsburg, Va.
      
She is survived by her husband, two daughters, Susanna B. Konner and Sarah B. Konner, and a son, Adam J. Konner, all of Atlanta; her parents, Jerome and Edna Shostak of Midwood, Brooklyn, and Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Lucy Shostak of Baldwin, L.I.
      
She is survived by her husband, Martin Gershon; a daughter, Leah, and two sons, Joel and Robert, all of Brooklyn Heights; a sister, Anne Lyons of Manhattan, and her mother, Gussie Moskowitz, also of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by a sister, Chalma Mathewson of Cincinnati.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her twin sister, the artist Carol Anthony of Sante Fe, N.M.; her brother, Jack M. Anthony of Seattle, and three children from her first marriage, Pedro Sanchez de Move llan of Middletown, R.I., Tessa Wohl of Stockbridge, Mass., and Mark Sanchez de Movellan of Hilversum, the Netherlands.
      
In addition to her father, Ms. Lankton is survived by her mother, Lynn, also of Park Forest; a brother, Mark Alan, of Saugatuck, Mich., and a sister, Cathy, of Bellingham, Wash.
      
''
        She is survived by her sister, Kathryn Parsont, and her stepdaughter, Joan.
      
She is survived by her sister, Patricia Curtin of Sound Beach, L.I., and two brothers, Brian, of Holbrook, L.I., and Brendan, of Brooklyn.
      
After playing with semipro teams in St. Paul, Stone went to stay with a sister in San Francisco, married a man 40 years her senior and continued to play baseball, adopting the name Toni.
Ms. Morales is survived by a daughter, Alexandra Morales of Brooklyn, and her mother, Nancy Salamo, and sister, Linda Salamo, both of El Cerrito, Calif.
She is survived by her husband, Lyle Bettger, an actor; two sons, Frank L., of Los Angeles and Lyle R., of Atascadero, Calif.; a daughter, Paula Newell, of Paia; a sister, Betty Darr, of Seminole, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
; six grandchildren; nine great-grandchildren; a sister, Janet Cooper Dakin of Irvington, Va., and a brother, Dr. William Grant Cooper Jr., of Little Rock, Ark.
      
; and a sister, Louisa Lubar of Newton Centre, Mass.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Pamela Pulleyn Machold of Princeton; a brother, Gurdon W. Wattles of Oldwick; a sister, Elizabeth Wattles of Hightstown, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
3d, of Petoskey, Mich., and Jonathan G., of Winnetka, Ill.; a sister, Elspeth B. Furlaud of New York City, six grandchildren and a step-grandson.
      
The cause was breast cancer, said her sister, Betty Yuncker Lee.
She is survived by her sister, of Boynton Beach, Fla., two nephews and a niece.
      
In the 1980's she starred in Claude Pinoteau's film "La Boum" ("The Party") and on the stage in a French version of the play "Arsenic and Old Lace," with the roles of her sister and her daughter played by her daughter and her granddaughter.
Her aunt, Eleanor Medill Patterson, published The Washington Times-Herald, and her older sister, Alicia Patterson, founded, published and edited Newsday.
She told her sister to stay out of the next hunt.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sister, Ruth Juretschke of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Sarah, of Rockville Center, and Johanna, of Melbourne, Fla.; her parents, Robert and Doris Stampf of Lancaster, Pa.; two brothers, David, of Shoreham, L.I., and Jonathan, of North Valley Stream, L.I.,  and a sister, Melissa, of Ronkonkoma, L.I.
      
; a sister, Kathleen Mortimer of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
The cause was a series of brain tumors, Ms. LaBrecque's sister, Sandra T. Parsons, said.
"
        In addition to her daughter Ivana, of Manhattan, she is survived by her mother, of London; a sister, Lady Perdita Blackwood, of Ulster; another daughter, Evgenia Citkowitz of Los Angeles, and a son, Sheridan Lowell of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her father, Jack; her stepmother, Christine; two brothers, Michael and Jack; a sister, Darlene, and a stepsister, Ashley, all of Memphis.
      
