In addition to her husband, an astrophysicist at Harvard and at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Dr. Thaddeus is survived by a daughter, Eva Thaddeus of Albuquerque; a son, Michael Thaddeus of Manhattan; a sister, Alison Wilson of Palo Alto, Calif.; and a brother, Curtis Farrar of Washington.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Stanley Earley Jr., a physician whom she wed after the war; a son,  Stanley III; a daughter, Judith Earley; two brothers, Senior Bishop John Adams of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, and E. Avery Adams; and a sister, Dr. Lucy Rose Adams.
Lee Radziwill, sister of Mrs. Onassis, introduced the Maysleses to her relatives as part of a project she had proposed to film the early years of her and her sister's lives.
Lee Radziwill, sister of Mrs. Onassis, introduced the Maysleses to her relatives as part of a project she had proposed to film the early years of her and her sister's lives.
Mrs. Lindgren, who was widowed in 1952, is survived by a sister, Stina Hergin; her daughter, Karin Nyman; seven grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
In addition to Mr. Auer, Ms. Patchett is survived by their daughter, Amy Auer of Westhampton Beach, N.Y.; a sister, Mrs. J. Fred King; and a brother, Frank Patchet.
      
She was a sister of the publisher Henry R. Luce, who died in 1967.
She is survived by her daughter, of Massachusetts; a son, Kim, of Wyoming; a sister, Carol Whitmore of California; and two grandchildren.

        Princess Margaret, the younger sister of Queen Elizabeth II, whose troubled private life aroused both worldwide sympathy and widespread reprobation, died yesterday morning in London.
As queen, Margaret's sister, Elizabeth, was the supreme governor of the Church of England, which forbade divorce.
The Family Braved the Blitz
        She was educated at home with her sister, the future Queen Elizabeth II.
''When my sister and I were growing up, she was made out to be the goody-goody one,'' Princess Margaret told Andrew Duncan, author of ''The Reality of Monarchy'' (1970).
''
        Sympathetic observers later said that if the couple had been permitted to marry, the princess would have settled down to a more conventional life, like her sister.
the queen, according to Mr. Aronson, was said to have disapproved of Mr. Llewellyn and what she called ''my sister's guttersnipe life.
(W. H. Auden became her brother-in-law when the poet married her sister Erika to provide her with a British passport.
She is survived by her son, William, of Manahawkin, N.J.; her sister, Mary A. Francis of Palm Coast, Fla.; her brothers, Wilmote Burton of the Bronx, and Warren Burton of Palm Coast; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
But she also began performing as a recitalist and in a chamber ensemble, the Stuyvesant Trio, which included her sister Nellis, a cellist, and Helen Brainard, a pianist; and she toured Latin America as a member of Leopold Stokowski's All-American Youth Orchestra.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sister, Georgina Nkulenu; her daughter, Vincentia Canacco; her sons Vincent Malm, Christian Biassey and Stephen Jr., and six grandchildren.
She was 85, according to ''Who's Who in the Theater,'' but her sister, Carol Johnson of Santa Monica, Calif., said she was 86.
Her sister said her name was changed at the suggestion of a Hollywood producer.
When Ms. Worth did not show up, her guests for the evening telephoned her apartment, and Ms. Worth's sister told them of her death.
In addition to her sister, she is survived by her brother Luke Evans of Los Angeles.
Miss Ferrer is survived by a sister, Dr. M. Irene Ferrer of Manhattan; and a brother, Mel Ferrer, the actor, film director and producer, of Carpinteria, Calif.
      
She is survived by their children, a daughter, Lindsay, and a son, Dominic; a sister, Barbara Boreman; and three grandchildren.
Besides her daughter, a resident of San Francisco, and her son, who lives in Menlo Park, N.J., Mrs. Sobell is survived by a sister, Dr. Edith Garduk of Bethesda, Md.
Her last movie, ''La Generala,'' in which she played the sister of a rebel general who takes up arms when she sees the revolution betrayed, was released in 1970.
''
        The Harmonettes broke up in 1970, though Ms. Coates continued to perform with the Dorothy Love Coates Singers, featuring her sister Lillian and other singers from Birmingham.
; a brother, Fred McGriff of Newark; a sister, Naomi Chambers of Plainfield, N.J.; and two granddaughters.
She is survived by two daughters, Laura Fairbank Haynes of Arlington, Mass., and Holly Fairbank Tuck of New York City; a sister, Marian Cannon Schlesinger of Cambridge, Mass.
She had two daughters, Martha Levinson and Kate Ewing, both of Manhattan, and a son, Paul T. Levinson of Milton, Mass., with her husband, Henry W. Levinson, who also survives, as does a sister, Rachel Achenbach of Boxford, Mass.

        Kimberly Miles, recipient of a lung transplant in November 2000 in an unusual operation in which her sister and a friend donated parts of their lungs, died on Monday in Minneapolis.
Miles's sister Tammy Hoff and a friend, DorMae Gebhardt, both in their early 30's with families of their own, offered to be donors.
Ms. Hoff said her sister fought hard to overcome the problems, but finally asked not to be put on a respirator again or subjected to more invasive procedures.
Miles is survived by her parents, Wayne and Liz Miles, and another sister, Debra Bloczynski.
      
She is survived by her mother, Ramelle Monsky of Palm Desert, Calif.; a son, Max, and two daughters, Samantha and Montana, all of Santa Barbara; a sister, Robin Monsky of Chicago; and a brother, Henry Monsky of Omaha.
      
When the Nazis invaded Poland in 1939, she saw her sister shot.
She is survived by her partner, Dr. Perry; her brother, Esteban Lopez; and her sister, Haydee Lopez.
She is survived by two daughters, Ms. Paine of Durham, N.H., and Gillette Piper of Coral Gables, Fla.; a stepdaughter, Mimi Thompson of Manhattan; a sister, Carmel Eitt of King George, Va.; a brother, John Michael White of Delray Beach, Fla.; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
The cause was a stroke, her sister, Tracy Brown, said.
In addition to her sister Tracy, of San Francisco, she is survived by her mother, Frances Brown, of Grand Junction, Colo.; a brother, William, of Leawood, Kan.; and another sister, Jesslyn Brown Stevens, of Sioux Falls, S.D.
      
In addition to her sister Tracy, of San Francisco, she is survived by her mother, Frances Brown, of Grand Junction, Colo.; a brother, William, of Leawood, Kan.; and another sister, Jesslyn Brown Stevens, of Sioux Falls, S.D.
      
Mrs. Garin is survived by her husband, Michael N.; their three sons, Kristoffer A. of Manhattan, and Aleksander A. and Nickolas A. of Bronxville; and her sister, Lillian Daviknes of Hvalstad, Norway.
      
The cause was breast cancer, said her sister, the actress Caroline Aaron.
The screenplay was written by Ms. Abady's husband, Michael Krawitz, and starred her sister as her mother.
In addition to her husband, who lives in Great Barrington, Mass., and her sister, of Los Angeles, she is survived by her brother, Samuel Abady of Bronxville, N.Y..
Ms. Tish is survived by her daughter, Frances Tish, and a sister, Diana Durkin, both of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her son, a professor at Rutgers University who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her sister, Radka Donnell, a poet and artist, of Cambridge, Mass., and her brother, Mitko Zagaroff, also of Cambridge, who is a chief engineer for the artists Christo and Jean-Claude.
      
''
        She advised millions of readers on problems ranging from acne to alcoholism to AIDS, often in spirited competition with her identical twin sister, who wrote the advice column Dear Abby.
''
        But decades spent advising Nervous in Nevada and Desperate in Denver did not make Mrs. Lederer immune to personal foibles, and she occasionally appeared to need a dose of her own counsel on such matters as public discretion, divorce and her highly visible rivalry with her sister.
Her twin sister, Pauline Esther, known as Popo, followed 17 minutes afterward, just as she would later follow her into the advice business.
''
        Early in her newfound career, Mrs. Lederer often phoned her twin sister, Pauline Phillips, for help with her replies.
In addition to her sister, Mrs. Phillips, Mrs. Lederer is survived by her daughter, Margo Howard, of Cambridge, Mass.
''
        She advised millions of readers on problems as varied as acne, alcoholism and AIDS, often in spirited competition with her identical twin sister, who wrote the advice column Dear Abby.
''
        But decades spent advising Nervous in Nevada and Desperate in Denver did not make Mrs. Lederer immune to personal foibles, and she occasionally appeared to need a dose of her own counsel on such matters as public discretion, divorce and her highly visible rivalry with her sister.
Her twin sister, Pauline Esther, known as Popo, followed 17 minutes afterward, just as she would later follow her into the advice business.
''
        Early in her newfound career, Mrs. Lederer often phoned her twin sister, Pauline Phillips, for help with her replies.
In addition to her sister, Mrs. Phillips, Mrs. Lederer is survived by her daughter, Margo Howard, of Cambridge, Mass.
Rosemary and her sister Betty began to sing publicly, at first for political rallies for her grandfather, who was mayor of Maysville, later at amateur contests throughout northern Kentucky and southern Ohio.
''
        She suffered a setback in 1976 when her sister Betty died of an aneurysm but regained control of herself and worked on her memoirs.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Rebecca, of West Boylston, Mass.
; two grandchildren; a sister, Florence Roher of White Plains; and her mother, Shirley Rodkinson, also of White Plains.
      
; and Pamela Manasse, of Manhattan; a sister, Marjorie Weissman, of Queens; and six grandchildren.
      
Rosemary and her sister Betty began to sing publicly, at first for political rallies for her grandfather, who was mayor of Maysville, later at amateur contests throughout northern Kentucky and southern Ohio.
''
        She suffered a setback in 1976 when her sister Betty died of an aneurysm but regained control of herself and worked on her memoirs.
She is survived by her husband, Mr. DiPaolo; three sons, the actor Miguel Ferrer; Gabriel Ferrer, a painter and Episcopal priest married to Debby Boone; and the voice-over actor Rafael Ferrer; two daughters, Maria Murdoch, a designer; and Monsita Teresa Botwick; 10 grandchildren, her brother, Nick Clooney, and her sister, Gail Clooney Darley.
Her survivors include a sister, Tamara Schildkraut, who lived with her in Glen Head; a stepdaughter, Charlotte Van Stolk of Cleveland; and several stepgrandchildren.
; her sister, Noel Train of Washington; 11 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Genauer is survived by a sister, Blanche Wahl of Baltimore; a daughter, Constance Gash Roche, of New York City; and two grandchildren.
Ms. Genauer is survived by a sister, Blanche Wahl of Baltimore; a daughter, Constance Gash Roche, of New York; and two grandchildren.
Ms. Wyler is survived by her daughters, Ruth W. Messinger, the former Manhattan borough president, and Dr. Barbara W. Gold of Philadelphia; a brother, Edwin L. Goldwasser; a sister, Joan Schine; five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She rarely spent more than $70,000 on a picture, usually beginning by begging her sister Pearl Kushner, who also lives in Coral Gables and is her only immediate survivor, for startup money.
She is survived by her parents, Bobbi and Derek, of London; a brother, Tony, of California; a sister, Michele, of Cornwall; and her partner, Peter Gevisser.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Raven is survived by a son, Raven Anderson, and a daughter, Anabel Anderson, both of Setauket, and a sister, Deborah Libaire of Bellport, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Wilmot had no children, and her sole immediate survivor is her sister, Francice Bushkin, of Santa Barbara, Calif.
        Mrs. Wilmot rose to prominence the day after Thanksgiving in 1984, when a maid awakened her.
As the ungainly, wisecracking, Bible-toting sister of Sanford's late wife, Elizabeth, she quickly became one of the show's most popular characters.
The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, Peggy McGrath.
In addition to her sister Peggy, she is survived by two other sisters; two brothers; her husband, Lt. Cmdr.
She was arrested in 1979 on charges of ''anti-Soviet propaganda,'' and a report in the Chronicle around that time detailed official questioning of her sister about her ties to the West, as well as the interrogator's relaying his prisoner's request for a Bible and photographs of her grandchildren.
Mrs. Connelly lost her mother, brother and sister.
She is survived by her husband of 60 years, Professor Southern; a daughter, April S. Reilly of Florence, Calif.; a son, Edward J., of Port Charlotte; a sister, Stella Hall of Chicago; and three grandchildren.
By the time she was 2, her father, unable to care for her, sent Eileen and her younger sister, Marie, to live in a convent in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
Ms. Simpson is survived by her sister, Marie Hall.
      
Besides her husband of 41 years, a Newsweek contributing editor, Ms. Dudar's survivors include her sister, Nancy Gallanty, of the Bronx.
      
Nichols of Charlottesville, Va.; her parents, Thomas and Elizabeth Stephenson of Boston; a brother, Thomas F. Stephenson of Atherton, Calif.; and a sister, Susan S. Gates of Winston-Salem, N.C.
      
Dr. Labalme is survived by her husband, George Labalme Jr.; three daughters, Jennifer R. Labalme of Indianapolis, Lisa G. Osterland of Montreal and Victoria A. Labalme of Manhattan; a son, Henry G., of Manhattan and West Cornwall; a sister, Ann H. Poole of Princeton; and six grandchildren.
      
Dr. Kilbourn is survived by her parents, Hans and Barry Kilbourn of Norwalk, Conn., and by her sister, Kirsten Kilbourn of South Windsor, Conn.
      
The cause was pancreatic cancer, her sister, Susan Kismaric, said.
She is survived by her sister, Susan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Gregory Jaynes; a sister, Lisa Greenleaf Miller of New Haven; a brother, Newcomb Greenleaf of St. Johnsbury, Vt.; a stepson, Todd Jaynes of Dahlonega, Ga.; a stepdaughter, Whitney Jaynes Laidlaw; and two grandchildren.
      
''
        Ms. Brooks is survived by a sister, Kathryn Carter, and two nephews, Kent and Darryl Carter.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Lillian Epstein of Boca Raton, Fla.; two sons, Eric, of Brewster, N.Y., and Bradley, of Washington; a sister, Roberta Goldstein of Greenbrook, N.J.; and two brothers, Neil Epstein of Trumbull, Conn., and Richard Epstein of Norwalk, Conn.
      
She is survived by a sister, Dorothy Carroll Hudgins, of Manhattan.
Her mother, Pauline Heifetz, a pianist, was a sister of the violinist Jascha Heifetz.
Her husband, Harold L. Renfield, who predeceased her, had assumed her surname when they wed. She is survived by a son, Robert L.; a daughter, Anna Jo Dubow; nine grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; a brother, Joseph; and a sister, Jean Miller.
      
Besides her husband, Ms. Bader is survived by her mother, Evelyn Bader of Brooklyn; and her sister, Stephanie Bader of Manhattan.
      
There they brought up four children, Albert, Vivien, Miriam and Michael, who survive her, along with her husband, four grandsons and a sister, Anneke Prins Simons of Jersey City.
She is survived by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Edward Bistany of Langhorne; two brothers, Ed Bistany Jr. of Corham, N.Y., and Larry Bistany of Maple Glen, Pa.; and a sister, Robin Brown of Langhorne, Pa.
      
'' Her siblings went through life in white society, and it was not until 76 years later, in 1992, that she was reunited with a sister.
When she reunited with her older sister, Grace Morris Cramer of Anaheim, Calif., after 76 years, they had ''six good years together,'' commuting coast to coast, Mrs. Haizlip said yesterday.
She is survived by her sister, Ida Sando, of Spring Lake, N.J.
      
She and her twin sister, Sarah Louise, were the youngest of five children, who included her older brothers, Sean and Nicholas, and another sister, Suellen.
She and her twin sister, Sarah Louise, were the youngest of five children, who included her older brothers, Sean and Nicholas, and another sister, Suellen.
In addition to her twin, Sarah Louise Barasch, she is survived by her mother and two siblings who live in London, her brother Nicholas and her sister Suellen Grealy Vlaveanos.
