When the family moved to Los Angeles, Ms. Marcus and her sister Rosamund formed a piano duo.
From the time Mrs. Murray and her sister, the late Viola James, opened their restaurant with their husbands, Oswald Craine and Ben James, in 1958, the fresh corn bread, fried chicken, braised short ribs, black-eyed peas and string beans drew crowds to the restaurant, on Fifth Avenue near 125th Street.
Mrs. Murray, whose sister and first husband died many years ago, is survived by Mr. Murray.
      
She is survived by her husband, William; three sons, Thomas, of Summit, N.J., Jonathan Warner of Pelham, N.Y., and William Warner of Buffalo; a daughter, Ann Resmond of San Francisco; a sister, Katherine Homer Fryer of Manhattan, eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Haines is survived by her husband, Robert; two sons, Matthew and Daniel, both of Manhattan; a sister, Bella Finger Kleinman of the Bronx; a daughter-in-law, Francine Kane of Manhattan, and a grandson.
      
"
        She is survived by a sister, Myrtella Langrock of Toeterville.
      
; a sister, Marjorie Fernald of Brunswick, Me., and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Lees, whose original name was Beatrice Mills, was born in 1910 in Chicago into a theatrical family that included her sister, Viola Spolin, who helped found the improvisational theater movement, and a cousin, Robert Fizdale, the pianist and writer.
; a sister, Virginia M. Miller of Chula Vista, Calif.; five grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by a sister, Evelyn Williams of Skowhegan, and several nieces and nephews.
      
She is survived by a sister, Regina Korn of Kronberg, Germany.
      
She is survived by two brothers, Paul E. Manheim of New York City and Frank J. Manheim of London; a sister, Louise Espy of Manhattan; three daughters, the former State Parks Commissioner Joan K. Davidson, Elizabeth K. Fonseca and Mary E. Kaplan, all of Manhattan; a son, Richard D. Kaplan of Manhattan; seven grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
"
        Mrs. Pittman is survived by her four children: Tom, of Toronto; Mrs. Kelly Blackwood of Kincardine, Ontario; Mark Pittman of Newmarket, Ontario; and Mrs. Kathy Fenton of Toronto; her mother, Mrs. Evelyn Borden, of Toronto; a sister, Mrs. Gail Stanzel of Toronto; and a brother, Dave Winaut, of Liverpool, Nova Scotia, and six grandchildren.
      
" in a part originated by her sister Stella in the initial  production four years earlier.
She is survived by her husband; a son, Luke, of Cortona; a daughter, Abigail Vazquez of San Francisco; two grandchildren, and a sister, Ethel Braun of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her son, of Concord, Mass., she is survived by a sister, Natalie Barr of Lamoine, Me., and three grandchildren.
Mrs. Hort Mann is survived by her husband, Billy Mann; her parents, Susan and Michael Hort of Scarsdale, N.Y.; her grandparents, Dr. Selig and Blanche Strax of Queens; two brothers, Andrew and Peter, of Manhattan, and a sister, Shoshana, of Scarsdale.
      
She is survived by her husband, Nathan; two sons, Judah and Micah, both of Somerville; two brothers, Aaron Seidman of Brookline and Abe Seidman of Beverly Hills, Calif., and a sister, Sara Levine of Dallas.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Ann Smith, and two grandsons, Bertram and Nicholas Nikola; all of Patterson, N.Y., and a sister, Alice Harrington of San Diego.
      
She is survived by three sons, Andrew McFarland, Gavin McFarland and Luke Sawyer, all of Manhattan; a brother, Clifford Michel of Gladstone, N.J., and a sister, Julienne Michel of Santa Fe, N.M.
      
She is survived by a brother, Dr. Karl Vogel of Neustadt, Germany, and a sister, Lotte Vogel of Munich.
      
; a sister, Ruth Cooke of Kennett Square, Pa.; a brother, John H. Emerson of Arlington, Mass., and four grandchildren.
"
        Mrs. Logan, who was married three times, is survived by her husband, Roosevelt Logan; a son, Johnnine Watkins of Moss Point, Miss; a sister, Louise Blackman of Pensacola, Fla.; six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her parents, Murray and Shirley Beckenstein of Bellevue, Wash.; two daughters, Lindsay Madeline and Melanie; and a sister, Randi Fisher of London, Ont.
      
She is survived by her husband, Charles M. Kinsolving Jr.; a son, Ronald Hammer of Darien, Conn.; a brother, Dr. Richard Brockman of Manhattan; a sister, Susan Brockman of Manhattan; her stepmother, Elizabeth Brockman of Manhattan, and one grandson.
Ms. Steins is survived by her sister, Loretta Friedman of West Hampton, L.I.
      
Besides her son, who was the Lieutenant Governor of Texas from 1973 to 1991 and was recently named chancellor of the University of Houston, and her daughter, Jessica Catto, of San Antonio, she is survived by a sister, Mrs. Loy Loving, of Weslaco, Tex., 8 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
At 21, after completing design studies at Pratt Institute, she replaced her older sister Anna as head designer for Ben Girshel, then an important Seventh Avenue manufacturer.
Although bronc riding was her specialty, she and her little sister, Marge Henderson, excelled at virtually every rodeo event from trick riding to bull riding.
She and her sister answered the advertisement and were hired on the spot.
In addition to her sister, also of Tucson, she is survived by a son, Jay Cahill of Grandview, Mo.
She is survived by a sister, Mildred Rich of Oskaloosa, Iowa.
      
Born in New York City, she began her career in vaudeville, starring with her sister, Vivian.
She is survived by her sister, of Los Angeles.
      
As a child, she improvised and acted scenes with her younger sister, Rita, in a small theater their father had built for them in their London garden.
The New York film critics honored her as the best actress of 1943 for her portrayal in "The Hard Way" of a ruthless woman who propels her younger sister to stardom and destroys everyone in her way.
Miss Lupino is survived by a daughter, Bridget Duff, and a sister, Rita Lupino.
      
Ms. Chernin is survived by her daughter, Kim, of Berkeley, Calif., and a sister, Lillian Doran of Camarillo, Calif.
      
Nearing is survived by a sister, Alice Vaughan of Dorset, Vt.; a niece, Barbara Tuttle, and a nephew, C. B. Vaughan, both of Dorset, and a stepson, Robert Nearing of Troy, Pa.
        A memorial service will be held at 2 P.M. on Sunday, Oct. 1, at the Brookville Community Center in South Brookville, Me.
      
She is survived by a sister, Suzanne Toor Karpas of Pound Ridge, N.Y., and Manhattan.
      
"And it's an important thing she died at home, in her bed, with her sister there.
"
        Her 106-year-old sister, Sarah, known as Sadie, with whom she had lived for more than 100 years, seemed to handle her sister's death with the same strength that had carried her through a century.
"
        Her 106-year-old sister, Sarah, known as Sadie, with whom she had lived for more than 100 years, seemed to handle her sister's death with the same strength that had carried her through a century.
"
        She added that for her sister, whose life was filled with many achievements, the last few years had been particularly special.
And Sarah Delany said many times that it was for her baby sister that she had lived so long.
But she and her sister often spoke of the first time they were told to go to the back of the trolley car.
Like her sister Sarah, the first black home economics teacher in a New York City high school, she never married or had children.
With the death of their youngest sister, Laura, in 1993, they were the last survivors among their parents' children.
When asked in a 1993 interview if she could account for her and her sister's longevity, Dr. Delany replied, "Honey, we never married; we never had husbands to worry us to death.
In addition to her sister, Dr. Delany is survived by 14 nieces and nephews.
      
Ms. Steele also worked for WPIX radio and often did voice-overs for radio and television commercials, according to her sister, Joyce Loman.
Her syrupy voice was not affected by a flirtation with miniature cigars that she indulged in her early days on radio but gave up years ago, her sister said.
Ms. Steele and her sister operated Just Cats, a feline boutique on East 60th Street in Manhattan, but Ms. Steele was fond of dogs as well.
In addition to her sister Joyce, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Heather Steele, of South Dakota; another sister, Emalie Daniel, of Houston, and a granddaughter.
      
In addition to her sister Joyce, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Heather Steele, of South Dakota; another sister, Emalie Daniel, of Houston, and a granddaughter.
      
Her brother, Walter H. Annenberg, the former United States Ambassador to Great Britain, is a major benefactor of art institutions, and a sister, Enid Haupt of New York, has devoted much of her fortune to public gardens and horticultural institutions, as well as museums and libraries.
In 1936, she married Joseph H. Hazen, a lawyer, film producer, art collector and philanthropist at a double ceremony in which Mrs. Hazen's sister, Enid, was married to the investment banker Ira Haupt.
The children did not see him for again for 18 years, when he turned up, unannounced, at the high school graduation of Ms. Graves's younger sister.
In addition to Calvin Griffith and her son, Mrs. Haynes is survived by two brothers and one sister.
      
She is survived by her husband, Seymour; two sons, Ralph, of Manhattan, and Victor, of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Lois Schmittlinger of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Fisher is survived by a son, Bruce; a sister, Helen Huggins; four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Andrews was a teen-ager when she, her older sister, LaVerne, who died in 1967, and her younger sister, Patty, formed the trio whose close-voiced, enthusiastic style became the vocal parallel of the big bands of the swing era.
Miss Andrews was a teen-ager when she, her older sister, LaVerne, who died in 1967, and her younger sister, Patty, formed the trio whose close-voiced, enthusiastic style became the vocal parallel of the big bands of the swing era.
Miss Andrews's marriage to Lou Levy, who managed the sister act, ended in divorce in 1951.
In addition to her sister, of Encino, Calif., Miss Andrews is survived by a daughter, Aleda Hunt, and a son, Peter Levy, both of Salt Lake City; by Ms. Wells, whom she adopted and who lived with her in Auburn, Calif.; Steve Sharpe of Los Angeles, whom she considered a foster son, and one grandchild.
Ms. Morheuser is survived by a sister, Marie Casey of St. Louis.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Mary Bates of Pittsfield; a sister, Judith G. Clarke of Worthington, Mass., and two stepsons, Barrett L. and Carter L. Smith.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Mary Bates of Pittsfield; a sister, Judith G. Clarke of Worthington, Mass., and two stepsons, Barrett L. and Carter L. Smith.
      

        Mary Wickes, a tart-tongued character actress whose long career on the stage  and in films extended from "The Man Who Came to Dinner" to the two "Sister Act"  movies, died on Sunday at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center.
In "Sister Act" and "Sister Act II," she was Sister Mary Lazarus.
In "Sister Act" and "Sister Act II," she was Sister Mary Lazarus.
In "Sister Act" and "Sister Act II," she was Sister Mary Lazarus.
In addition to her son, she is survived by her husband Dr. Leo S. Palitz and a sister, Pauline Sorkin, all of New York; two grandchildren, and five great-grandsons.
      
In 1961, Ms. Miceli and her sister, Maria Brizzi, founded Grace Costumes Inc. and began providing costumes for opera, theater, ballet, film and television.
She is survived by her sister, who will continue to operate the company.
      
She is survived by a brother, Frank, and a sister, Stella, both of Manhattan.
      
In addition to their son, James S. Baumann of Manhattan, Mrs. Baumann is survived by a sister,  Susan Behrend of Philadelphia, and a brother, Fred Hirschhorn Jr. of Old Greenwich, Conn.
      
"
        On television she appeared in Melvin van Peebles's "Sophisticated Gents," Maya Angelou's "Sister, Sister," "A Killing Affair" and the American Playhouse adaptation of James Baldwin's "Go Tell It on the Mountain.
"
        On television she appeared in Melvin van Peebles's "Sophisticated Gents," Maya Angelou's "Sister, Sister," "A Killing Affair" and the American Playhouse adaptation of James Baldwin's "Go Tell It on the Mountain.
She is survived by a sister, Helen Cash Jackson, and two brothers, Jack and Robert.
      

        Sister Evelyn M. Schneider, a former chief executive of St. Vincent's Hospital and superior general of the Sisters of Charity, the order that founded  it 146 years ago, died on Sunday at her home in Greenwich Village.
Sister Evelyn's association with St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center spanned five decades.
During Sister Evelyn's nine-year tenure as chief executive, St. Vincent's acquired the National Maritime Union headquarters at Seventh Avenue and 12th Street and made it over as the O'Toole Medical Services Building.
In 1966, Sister Evelyn was elected to a five-year term as superior of the Sisters of Charity of New York, putting her in charge of 1,200 nuns in 87 schools, colleges, hospitals and child-care centers throughout the archdiocese.
Sister Evelyn was also the first woman to be elected president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, a position she filled for a year.
Sister Evelyn is survived by two sisters, Sister Cecilia Schneider of Manhattan and Marie Schneider of Staten Island.
      
Sister Evelyn is survived by two sisters, Sister Cecilia Schneider of Manhattan and Marie Schneider of Staten Island.
      
Mrs. McGreevy is survived by her husband, Charles, of Manhattan, and her sister, Carol Donahoe of Denver.
      
But when her sister Sadie opened a rival studio, she left for New York, recruiting students initially by offering tap and ballet lessons to dancers at the Savoy and other Harlem ballrooms.
She is survived by a sister, Evelyn, of Chicago.
      
Dame Nita was the older sister of the late Prime Minister Errol Barrow, who led Barbados to independence from Britain in 1966.
The cause was breast cancer, said her sister Joan.
In addition to her sister Joan, of Crestone, Colo., she is survived by her parents, Robert and Joan Townsend, whose principal residence is Reno, Nev.; another sister, Jill, of Ojai; and two brothers, Robert, of Reno, and Jeffrey, of Hollywood Hills, Calif.
      
In addition to her sister Joan, of Crestone, Colo., she is survived by her parents, Robert and Joan Townsend, whose principal residence is Reno, Nev.; another sister, Jill, of Ojai; and two brothers, Robert, of Reno, and Jeffrey, of Hollywood Hills, Calif.
      
Ms. Leustig is survived by her husband, a brother and a sister.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dean Compton, her sons, her mother and a sister.
      
In addition to her husband and business partner, Ms. Boucher is survived by a sister, June Dutton of Sausalito, Calif; two sons, Douglas, of Belvedere, Calif., and Theodore, of Davis, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Loring is survived by her husband of more than 50 years, Murrel Loring;  a daughter, Sherry Loring-Warren of Los Angeles; a son, David, of Reno; a sister, Lois Mudrick of Los Angeles, and three grandsons.
      
In addition to her son, who lives in Montclair, N.J., Mrs. Bradley is survived by a sister, Hardeman Bond of Crystal  City, and a granddaughter.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, Margaret Schwartz.
In addition to her husband and her sister, Margaret Schwartz of Endicott, N.Y., she is survived by a brother, Paul R. Camp of Orono, Maine.
      
In addition to Ms. Phillips of Paterson, N.J., she is survived by her husband, George, and a sister, Marion Phillips of Manahawkin, N.J.
      
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her sister, Emily Fong, also of Manhattan.
She is survived by her husband and sister.
      
Eunice Kennedy Shriver, the next oldest, said, "Mother's intelligence was always informed and directed by the strength and compassion of the heart," exemplified when "she never forgot or let us ignore the company of our sister, Rosemary.
The Kahns had Margaret baptized at an Episcopal church in Morristown in 1911, along with her older sister, Maud, and her younger brother, Gilbert.
She is survived by her husband of 52 years, Richard K. Manoff; another son, Dr. Gregory P. Manoff of Santa Fe, N.M.; a sister, Martha Deutscher of New York, and six grandchildren.
      
Besides Donald, she is survived by two other sons, Aaron and Marshall, both of Manhattan; a sister, Helen Rachmil of Los Angeles; a brother, Morton Goldman of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Nilufer Gulek, of Ankara, Turkey.
      
She is survived by two sons, Augy, of Manhattan, and Julian, of Paris; a sister, Marian Britton of Sonoma, Calif., and two grandsons.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Taylor is survived by her daughter, Martha LaCroix; a brother, Eugene Scott; a sister, Elizabeth Taylor; a sister by adoption, Ruby Harris, and a grandson.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Taylor is survived by her daughter, Martha LaCroix; a brother, Eugene Scott; a sister, Elizabeth Taylor; a sister by adoption, Ruby Harris, and a grandson.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Greenwich, Conn., she is survived by a sister, Inge Stegmuller of Princeton, N.J..
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Robert, of Bern, Switzerland; a daughter, Carolyn Hoehn of Heidelberg, Germany; a sister, Helen Sutton Gulick of Sacramento, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      

        Sister Ann Gillen, executive director of the Interreligious Task Force on Soviet Jewry from 1972 to 1987, died on Jan. 14 at the Sisters of the Holy Child Jesus convent in Rosemont, Pa. She was 76.
The cause was cancer, said Sister Gloria Coleman, a member of the order.
As the leader of the Interreligious Task Force, which was established in 1972 to press the Soviet Union to let Jews emigrate without restrictions, Sister Ann picketed Soviet embassies throughout the world and petitioned leaders in Washington and at the United Nations in New York.
Sister Ann, who was born in Texas City, entered the Society of the Holy Child Jesus in 1940 and took her final vows in 1948.
Sister Ann was also executive director of the National Coalition of American Nuns in the 1970's and served several terms on the governing board of Common Cause, the public-affairs lobbying organization.
      
Dr. Bard is survived by her second husband, Irving Staroben of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Doron D. Bard of Gaithersburg; a sister, Nurie Relis of Manhattan, and a grandson.
She is survived by her husband, Leonard, and a sister, Janis Ogelvie.
      
She is survived by her mother, Eleanor Futas of Manhattan, and a sister, Susan Wagner of Bethesda, Md.
      
She is survived by a sister, Amy Nell Hayes, also of Hightstown.
      
Mrs. Berlin is survived by two sons, Bruce B., of Southport, and Carswell R., of Manhattan; a daughter, Margaret M. Berlin of Manhattan; a sister, Margaret M. Blackwell of Setauket, L.I.
Her father was Dwight Whitney Morrow, Ambassador to Mexico from 1927 to 1930; her sister is the writer Anne Morrow Lindbergh, the wife of the aviator Charles A. Lindbergh.
In addition to her sister and son, Mrs. Morgan is survived by three daughters, Saran Hutchins of Chicago, Elisabeth Pendleton of Washington and Margaret Eiluned Morgan of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
Dr. Jones is survived by her parents, Donald and Shirley Jones of Urbana, and a sister, Irene Jones of Livermore, Calif.
      

        Isabel Wilder, a novelist and a sister of the author and playwright Thornton Wilder, died last Monday at her home in Hamden, Conn. She was 95.
In addition to Mrs. Brunswick, Mrs. Solomon is survived by a sister, Lisa Dickson of Beverly Hills, Calif.; another daughter, Joan Ash of Elkins Park; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Besides Mr. Rangel, she is survived by a daughter, Frances McDermott of the Bronx; a brother, Percy Wharton of Camden, N.J.; a sister, Sylvia Curtis of Manhattan, seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
"I think he saw dollar signs," Selena said laughingly in an interview last year, describing the evolution of a family band that included her sister Suzette on drums and her brother Abraham III on guitar.
In addition to Ms. Soffer, she is survived by a sister, Fannie Stein of Cleveland.
      
She is survived by a sister, Ruth Kennedy of Boise.
      
; a sister, Elinor Stevens Cloutier of Ashburnham; three grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Magda Fischer of Budapest, and a stepson.
      
