She is survived by a son from an early marriage, James E. Mitchell of Philadelphia; a sister, Jeanne C. Fleischmann of Manhattan, who is the widow of Peter F. Fleischmann, a chairman of The New Yorker; and two grandchildren.
      
''
        Besides Margaret Lescher, she is survived by another daughter, Katherine Lescher of Sydney, Australia;  her mother, Mary G. Cantwell of Bristol; a sister, Diana Nickerson of Pittsburgh; and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by a sister, Deborah Johnston.
One sister contracted polio and another died of influenza in 1918, leaving a long shadow over the family, said a niece, Cheryl Chalmers.
Her father suggested speaking to his secretary, who just happened to be Mayor La Guardia's sister.
She is survived by a sister, Margaret Vander Veer of Charlotte, N. C.
      
Her husband, Robert Pelletier, who died in 1997, was a Times art director; her daughter, Alexandra, is a news assistant on the Times national desk; her sister, Clare Salvaggio, is a staff assistant on the Times Magazine staff, and another sister, Cecilia Moran, was a  Times secretary, now retired.
Her husband, Robert Pelletier, who died in 1997, was a Times art director; her daughter, Alexandra, is a news assistant on the Times national desk; her sister, Clare Salvaggio, is a staff assistant on the Times Magazine staff, and another sister, Cecilia Moran, was a  Times secretary, now retired.
Besides her two sisters and her daughter, Alexandra, of Sparkill, Mrs. Pelletier is survived by her mother, Madeline Moran of Chestnut Ridge, N.Y.; another daughter, Etain, also of Sparkill; a son, Kieran, of Turbotville, Pa.; another sister, Marie Long of Jersey City; three brothers, John Moran of Manalapan, N.J., Joseph Moran of Ireland, and Robert Moran of Wappinger Falls, N.Y.; and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her husband, Sherwood; her parents, Calman Winegarden of Toledo, Ohio, and Margaret Winegarden of Rochester; a sister, Mary Hoyle of San Francisco; and three sons, Andrew, Michael and Will, of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by a sister, Adelaide Fine of Shaftsbury, Vt., and two daughters, Peggy Karp of Berkeley, Calif., and Nina Karp of North Bennington, Vt.
Her sister Lottie was something of a groupie; she would invite the performers to the house for dinner and often to stay for the night.
Her sister Edna Mae, who left home to star in films, including ''The Green Pastures'' in 1936 and ''The Notorious Elinor Lee'' in 1940, always lamented that her sister did not aim higher.
Her sister Edna Mae, who left home to star in films, including ''The Green Pastures'' in 1936 and ''The Notorious Elinor Lee'' in 1940, always lamented that her sister did not aim higher.
Mrs. de Regniers's other books included ''A Little House of Your Own'' (1954), illustrated by Irene Haas, and ''Little Sister and the Month Brothers'' (1975), illustrated by Margot Tomes.
She later moved to Washington to be near her sister, Lillian Goldman of Washington, who survives her.
She, her brother, Stephen Sanford, an internationally recognized polo player known as Laddie, and her sister, Sara Jane Sanford, were said to have been the inspiration for Philip Barry's 1929 play ''Holiday,'' made into a classic movie starring Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant.
Ms. Trahey is survived by her sister, Anita Richter, and a niece, Kristina Richter Becker, both of Englewood, N.J.
      

        Sister Mary Geraldine Tobia, a longtime co-director of the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park, a social service agency serving people in that section of Brooklyn, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
Sister Mary Geraldine, who was a Sister of the Good Shepherd, and Sister Mary Paul Janchill were the co-founders of the center in 1978.
Sister Mary Geraldine, who was a Sister of the Good Shepherd, and Sister Mary Paul Janchill were the co-founders of the center in 1978.
Sister Mary Geraldine, who was a Sister of the Good Shepherd, and Sister Mary Paul Janchill were the co-founders of the center in 1978.
In an interview in 1993, Sister Mary Geraldine said, ''We are more like the old settlement house than we are anything else.
''She treated everybody she worked with as a family member, and that became the model for the Center for Family Life, and in fact became a model for similar institutions across the country,'' said David Saltzman, executive director of the Robin Hood Foundation, which fights poverty in New York City and worked with Sister Mary Geraldine for the last 12 years.
Bishop Joseph M. Sullivan, auxiliary Roman Catholic bishop of Brooklyn for human services, said Sister Mary Geraldine ''was a woman of extraordinary energy and very upbeat mentality and believed in hands-on dealing with community problems and issues.
''
        From the time of the center's founding until Sister Mary Geraldine's death, she and Sister Mary Paul were its co-directors, with equal authority in administering it.
''
        From the time of the center's founding until Sister Mary Geraldine's death, she and Sister Mary Paul were its co-directors, with equal authority in administering it.
Sister Mary Geraldine was the center's project director, in charge of its afterschool and evening programs for children, in two elementary schools and a middle school in Sunset Park.
Sister Mary Geraldine also supervised many of the center's other operations and its administrative and maintenance staffs.
For her part, Sister Mary Paul has been the center's clinical director, overseeing clinical social workers in their work within the neighborhood.
Despite Sister Mary Geraldine's death, the center's various operations are to be continued as they have been for 22 years.
Sister Mary Geraldine was born and raised in Newark, and received a bachelor's degree, magna cum laude, in 1967 from Fordham, a master's degree in 1976 from the family and community relations department of Teachers College at Columbia, and a master's degree in 1985 from Columbia's School of Social Work.
''
        Ms. Isaksson is survived by two sons from a previous marriage, Hans Isaksson and Gunnar Isaksson; a sister, Kerstin M. Lundberg; and five grandchildren, all of Stockholm.
      
She went on to be a writer on the staff of the Metropolitan Museum, an associate editor of Art News and managing editor of a sister publication, the quarterly Portfolio.
A founding member of the American Negro Theater in Harlem, Ms. Martin was among the first African-American actresses to take the Broadway stage, making her debut as the sister of Canada Lee in Orson Welles's 1941 production of ''Native Son.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Nicholas; her father, Allan Pearlstein of Boca Raton, Fla.; her mother, Gloria Asnes of New York; a sister, Laurie Goldberg of Atlanta; a brother, Robert Pearlstein of Baltimore; and a grandmother, Flora Pearlstein of Baltimore.
Dr. Benesch is survived by a son, Andrew, of Highland Park, N.J.; a daughter, Susan, of Milford, Conn.; a sister, Madeleine, of London; and two granddaughters.
; a sister, Jerri Reilly of Fairfield; and a grandson.
      
''There is only six months between my sister Joan and I, and there are several of us like that,'' Mrs. Wyble said.
''
        Ms. Sosenko, who is survived by a brother, Jay Jerome, and a sister, Ruth Goodman, both of Cherry Hill, N.J., had no false modesty.
She is survived by a younger sister, Eva Crane, who also became a noted scientist and for more than 30 years was director of the International Bee Research Association.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Stoliar is survived by a daughter, Lee Stoliar Dufresne of Charlotteville, N.J.; a son, Evan, of Manhattan; a sister, Dr. Virginia Stein of Somerville, N.J.; and a granddaughter.
      
In addition to her husband of 21 years, Professor Blair is survived by a son and a daughter by an earlier marriage, William R. Kincaid of Washington and Kathryn K. Jong of Fayetteville; two stepdaughters and a stepson, Heather E. Blair of Chicago, Arden S. Blair of Columbia, Md., and James R. Blair of Fort Worth; a sister, Lois Alard of Fayetteville, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, John M. Angelo of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Lorie Cowen Levy of Irvington, N.Y., and Jill Cowen of Manhattan; a stepson, Tony Cowen of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; and a sister, Carol Gruntal of Westchester, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a son, Michael J., of Boston; two daughters, Dr. Margot Onek of Washington and Jane Gilman of South Orange, N.J.; a sister, Jeanne Barnett of Alexandria, Va.; and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Rubin is survived by a sister, Esther Spivack Marks, of Toronto.
The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her sister, Saddiya Battle.
Ms. Battle began making furs about 10 years ago, though in a sense, she started as a child when she and her sister would take skins given to them by their father, an avid hunter, and turn them into blankets and doll clothes.
''When people like Puff Daddy were photographed for magazines, they'd say to the stylists, 'I'm wearing my own coat,' '' recalled her sister.
In addition to her sister, she is survived by her mother, Gladys, and her brother, Saleem Muhammad, both of Brooklyn.
      
Her survivors include her mother,  who is 102, of New Haven; her husband, Jay; two sons, Daniel, of Ridgefield, Conn., and Michael, of Stony Creek, Conn.; a daughter, Sandra Vlock, also of Stony Creek; a sister, Marian Wexler of New Haven; and nine grandchildren.
      
Miss Young died at the home of her sister, Georgiana Montalban, the wife of the actor Ricardo Montalban, said Norman Brokaw, the chairman of the William Morris agency and her agent for 50 years.
In addition to her sister, Mrs. Montalban, Miss Young is survived by her three children.
She is survived by a sister, Eleanor Haefele of Sacramento, and five grandchildren.
Mrs. Amato is survived by her husband and a sister, Ann Frydel, of Manhattan.
      
; a sister, Katherine Hocking of Madison, N.H.; and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Jean Magrow of Oceanside, N.J.
        After Ms. Quinn had for some time been running the standing-room line,  a procedure to which the Met gave tacit approval, some regular standees urged her to begin collecting tips for her efforts.

        Sister M. Isolina Ferre, a Catholic nun from a wealthy family in Puerto Rico who was awarded the Medal of Freedom by President Clinton last August for over half a century of charity and peacemaking, died on Thursday in her native city of Ponce.
''
        Sister Isolina won the Medal of Freedom, the highest honor the government can give a civilian, for establishing charitable centers in New York City and Appalachia, in addition to Puerto Rico.
A friend and fellow nun in Sister Isolina's order, the Missionary Servants of the Most Blessed Trinity, said that Sister Isolina successfully mediated a conflict between warring Puerto Rican youth gangs in Brooklyn in the 1950's and 60's while she was the director of a Catholic charitable center there.
A friend and fellow nun in Sister Isolina's order, the Missionary Servants of the Most Blessed Trinity, said that Sister Isolina successfully mediated a conflict between warring Puerto Rican youth gangs in Brooklyn in the 1950's and 60's while she was the director of a Catholic charitable center there.
The friend said Sister Isolina's success as a peacemaker was the result of her interpersonal skills, her training in sociology at Fordham and the insights provided by her Puerto Rican heritage.
Sister Isolina was born into a Puerto Rican family that owns two leading newspapers.
She is survived by a sister, Barbara Nicholson of Hampshire, England.
She wrote about this in her 1969 book, ''Soul Sister,'' in which she described the anonymity and degradation of being a black domestic in a world of white employers, one of whom tried to rape her.
''Soul Sister'' was followed in 1973 by ''Bessie Yellowhair,'' based on her life on a Navajo reservation and as a American Indian nanny for a Los Angeles family, and in 1978 by ''The Illegals,'' in which she wrote of crossing the border with a group of Mexican immigrants.
She is survived by a brother and a sister, both of Texas.
''
        She is survived by a sister, Christina Burke; a brother, Patrick Burke; a niece, Tawny Wagner; and three nephews, Toby Wagner, Matthew Burke and Laurence Burke.
; a sister, Dr. Iris Norstrand of Brooklyn, and two grandsons.
Ms. Richards's characters were exemplars of stalwart, soulful women: Sister Margaret, the pastor of a storefront church in James Baldwin's play ''The Amen Corner''; Mr. Poitier's mother in ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner'' (a role for which she was nominated for an Academy Award); Baby Suggs, a former slave who becomes a spiritual leader, in the film version of Toni Morrison's ''Beloved.
Lady Sarah was a sister of John George Vanderbilt Henry Spencer-Churchill, the 11th Duke of Marlborough.
Besides her brother the duke, she is survived by four daughters, Serena Balfour of London, Consuelo Russell and Jacqueline Williams, both of Manhattan, and Alexandra Birch of Pennsylvania; a sister, Lady Rosemary Muir of Berkshire, England; a brother, Lord Charles Spencer-Churchill of London; and 10 grandchildren.
      
Mr. Hough died in 1996, and Ms. Peters  moved to be closer to her sister in Carlsbad, a suburb of San Diego.
Besides her husband, a Cornell professor emeritus, she is survived by two daughters, Judy Salpeter of Berkeley, Calif., and Dr. Shelley Salpeter of Woodside, Calif.; a sister, Naomi Lasher of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.; and four grandchildren.
      
Her son, Anura, 51, who lives  next to his mother's home in the family compound, went over to the family's despised rival, the United National Party, after his sister, now 55, won the right to succeed their mother.
Neither Ms. Ford, or her sister Helen Tworkov, a founding editor of Tricycle magazine, remember the name their aunt was given at birth.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Brook Ashley of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a son, Brockman Seawell of New York; two brothers, Hubert F. Rawls Jr. of Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Richard Russell Rawls of Fernandina Beach, Fla.; a sister, Dorothy Louise Rawls Tuttle of California; a granddaughter; and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Rosemary Edelman of Los Angeles and Kate Edelman Johnson of Beverly Hills, and a sister, Ruth J. Golding of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her companion, Florence Klotz, and a sister, Juliette Fleischer, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
      
Reuel Wilson of London, Ontario, was her half brother and Helen Miranda Wilson of Wellfleet, Mass., her half sister -- not stepbrother and stepsister.
''
        Ms. Windsor is survived by her husband, Jack Rodney Hupp; her son, Richard Hupp; a brother, Jerry Bertelsen; and a sister, Louise Atherley.
Mrs. Ireys is survived by a sister, Catherine Ropes of Hartsdale, N.Y.; two daughters, Catherine Gandel of Los Angeles and Dr. Anne Lennon of Green Harbor, Mass.
Ms. Ledis is survived by her husband; her parents, Nathan Ledis and Joan Feldman; a brother, Stuart Ledis; and a sister, Holly Blumenstyk.
      
After the death of her mother, Zella, from cancer, Ms. Kennedy and her sister Grayce moved to New York.
She is survived by a sister, Helen Wilkins Claytor of Grand Rapids, Mich., a former national president of the Y.W.C.A.
      
