; a sister, Jane S. Ramee, of Washington; three brothers, Charles B. Stewart, of Seattle, Gilbert H. Stewart Jr., of Haddonville, N.J., and Hamilton Stewart, of Pompton Plains, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      
Miss Hutton is survived by her husband, Victor Schoen; three sons, and her sister, Betty Hutton, the actress and singer.
      
She is survived by a sister, Pricilla Simon of the Bronx, and a brother, Morris of Massapequa, L.I.
She and a colleague, Sister Edith Margaret, founded St. Hilda's School in Morningside Heights in 1950.
; 9 grandchildren; 13 great-grandchildren, and a sister, Sadie Elswit of Manhattan.
      
; a sister, Sadie Elswit of Manhattan; 9 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert, of Falls Church, Va.; three sons, William D. Vandivier of Pittsburgh and John Elliot Vandivier and Robert B. Vandivier, both of Philadelphia; a sister, Bettye Fraley, and her mother, Daisy Finnell, both of Berea, Ky.
      
; three daughters, Cynthia Phipps of Westbury, Lillian Rousseau of Palm Beach, Fla., and Florence Chase of Manhattan; a brother, Dunbar Bostwick of Sherburne, Vt., and a sister, Dorothy Campbell of Cooperstown, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Stein is survived by her husband, Dr. Max H. Stein; three sons, Jeffrey, of Hartsdale, N.Y., Ethan, of Irvington, N.Y., and Matthew, of Bayside, Queens; a brother, Irving Sperber of Englewood, N.J.; a sister, Beatrice Leis of Southbury, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Rhoda, of Manhattan; a son, Basil, of Queens; a sister, Anna Stein of St. Petersburg, Fla.; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, George of Paoli, Pa., and John of Boulder, Colo; three daughters, Sophia von der Heide of Manhattan, Trita Shortt of Fairfax, Va., and Sylvia March Fitzgerald of Palisades, N.Y.; a sister, Maria Lennig of Frankfurt, and eleven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Nerie D. Clark Jr., of Hickory, N.C., a sister and two brothers.
      
Mrs. Lewis is survived by her son, Anthony Lewis, a columnist of The New York Times, a sister, Frieda Berg of the Riverdale section of the Bronx, and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Lionel; three daughters, Connie, Naomi and Ruth, all of Jerusalem; a sister, Helen Rudolph of Queens, and a brother, Stanley Evans of the Bronx.
      
Surviving are her husband, Andrew; a daughter, Melinda, of Brewster; a stepson, Roger, of Sudbury, Mass., and a sister, Marguerite Britter, also of Brewster.
      
The books ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' and ''Belles on their Toes'' were written by Mrs. Barney's sister, Ernestine G. Carey, who lives in Scottsdale, Ariz., and brother, Frank Jr., who lives in Charleston, S.C.
        Nine siblings survive Mrs. Barney.
She is survived by her husband; a son from a previous marriage, P. Richard Cassiday Jr., of Manhattan; her mother, Laura Sheldon of Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Mrs. Herbert Bruckner of Hinsdale, Ill.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Power is survived by a son, Nathan E., at home; her mother, Katharine R. Goddard, of Ann Arbor; a sister, Margery G. Whiteman, of Albany, and two brothers, Russel H. Goddard, of New Haven, and Wendell H. Goddard, of Berkeley, Calif.
She is survived by her husband, Sydney Connell, a retired social worker; a sister, Rita Hirsch of Manhattan, and two stepsons, Joseph, of Brooklyn and Eric, of Manhattan.
      
Surviving Mrs. Frankel besides her husband are her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Harold M. Brown; a sister, MarionJust of Westwood, Mass., and three children, David, Margot and Jonathan, all of New York.
She is survived by her mother, Margaret Ponce, and a sister.
      
; a son, George L. Johnston of Barrington, R.I.; a sister, Carolyn Russell of Needham, Mass.
She is survived by her sister, Sarah Edwards Gray, of Harlem; three grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
Besides her husband, Miss Curtis is survived by a sister, Mary Curtis Davey of Los Altos, Calif., three stepchildren and three nieces and nephews.
Among her survivors are a sister and two grandchildren, all of Britain.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jeremy Warburg Russo of Chicago; a son, Jonathan, of Boston; two stepchildren, Geraldine Zetzel of Cambridge, Mass., and Felix M. Warburg 2d of San Francisco; a sister, Lady Bonham-Carter of London; 11 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Survivors include her mother, M. Cathryn Springer, and a sister, June Ferol Damon.
Miss Gray is survived by a daughter, Portia Brown, and a sister, Helen.
      
She is also survived by a daughter, Sandra Schwartz, and a sister, Beatrice Abbe of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      

       Sister Mary Theresa Brentano, a Benedictine nun who was a pioneer in the use of electronics in the classroom, died of a stroke Sunday at the Mount St. Scholastica Convent, Atchison, Kan. She was 84 years old.
Sister Mary Theresa Brentano, a Benedictine nun who was a pioneer in the use of electronics in the classroom, died of a stroke Sunday at the Mount St. Scholastica Convent, Atchison, Kan. She was 84 years old.
Sister Mary Theresa told an interviewer at the time that she considered the system means of tailoring instruction to be closer to individuals' needs and farther from mass education.
''
        At the time of her death, she was at work on a volume of letters by her older sister, the journalist Janet Flanner, who wrote The New Yorker magazine's ''Letter From Paris'' under the pen name Genet.
She is survived by a sister, Eleanor Clark Warren of Fairfield, Conn.; two sons, Nathaniel, of Manhattan, and Amos H. of San Diego; two daughters, Rebecca P. Goldstein of Denver and Maria Larsson of Gotesberg, Sweden; a stepson, John K. Jr., of Washington, and 10 grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, David Silverberg; her mother, Helen G. Brody; a sister, Dr. Sheila B. Kamerman, and a daughter, Dr. Sue A. Shapiro, all of Manhattan.
      
''
        She is survived by her sister, Anne Feldman, of Mongaup Valley, N.Y. A memorial service is planned on Aug. 9 in Woodstock.
      
; a daughter, Judith Singer of Jacksonville, Fla.; two brothers, Dudley Feit of Brooklyn and Herbert Feit of Jamaica Estates, Queens; a sister, Rose Blau of Brooklyn, and six grandchildren.
      
Ms. Martin is survived by a sister, Vera Williams, of Schenectady, N.Y., and three brothers, James Williams and Johnson Williams, both of Schenectady, and Rufus Williams, of Buffalo, N.Y. A memorial service is planned on tomorrow in Schenectady.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Charles A. Perera; two sons, Donald A., of San Jose, Calif., and John B., of Cleveland; three daughters, Ellen P. Scott of San Diego, Carol P. Weingeist of Hanover, N.H., and Sylvia B. Perera of Sherman, Conn.; a brother, Samuel Brinton, and a sister, Alice Clement, both of Kennett Square; 11 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sister, Frances Harris, of Manhattan.
      
; a brother, Holland Estill, of Manhattan; a sister, Katharine Bouterse, of Atlanta; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Priest appeared in a number of daytime television serials over the years, including ''The Edge of Night,'' ''As the World Turns'' and ''Ryan's Hope,'' in which she played Sister Mary Joel.
Priest is survived by a son, Jamie Priest, and a daughter, Esther Blue, both of Manhattan; a sister, Hinda Neufeld of Ithaca, N.Y., and two brothers, Elias Cohen of Philadelphia and Sam Crane of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Shlomo Hagai of Manhattan, and a sister, Renee Posin of Oxnard, Calif.
      
Mrs. Nash is survived by her sister, Ruth Schreiber, and a niece, Julia Mallach, both of Manhattan.
She is survived by a sister, Maia Gregory of Manhattan, and a stepdaughter, Anne de Beixedon of Santa Barbara, Calif.
      
A similar group of women who served in the Navy in World War I were referred to as ''yeomanettes,'' and Mrs. Watson's oldest sister was serving at the time with that group.
She is survived by two sons, James of Schwenksville, Pa., and Dirk of Tenafly, N.J.; a sister, Dorothy C. Parker of Fort Washington, Pa.; seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Julia Knickerbocker, Miranda de Kay and Suzanne Colt, all of Manhattan; a sister, Gerd Sherman, of Manhattan; a brother, Rolf Schjoldager of Los Angeles, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, Edward, of Wakefield, Mass., and a sister, Elizabeth Pullar of Quincy, Mass.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Harold Lazarus; her mother, Louise Comens of Bethlehem; a sister, Dr. Iris Rotberg of Potomac, Md., and two sons, Eric, of Garden City and Mark, of Jackson, Miss.
      
''There was a desolation of the spirit over her death,'' Canon John Reynolds told the congregation, which included Mrs. Ryan's sister, Nora, and her husband, Steve Fairbrass.
Mrs. Hammerstein is survived by a sister, Eleanor Biow of Santa Barbara, Calif.; two sons, Henry Jacobson of Santa Barbara and James Blanchard Hammerstein of Manhattan and London; a daughter, Susan Blanchard of Manhattan; two stepchildren, William Hammerstein of Kent, Conn., and Alice Mathias of Harrison, N.Y.; 10 grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
In 1939, she played Dinah Lord, the younger sister of Katharine Hepburn's Tracy Lord, in Phillip Barry's comedy ''The Philadelphia Story.
; a sister, Charlotte Van Winkle of Hamden, Conn.; a son, Van Burgess of Summit, N.J.; a daughter, Claire Phillips of Manhattan; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Miriam Rabinowicz of New York, and a brother, Rabbi Harry Rabinowicz, of London.
      
She is survived by her husband, Harry A. Sylvester; a sister, Barbara Hart Fogle of Marietta, Ohio, and three children by a previous marriage, Barbara D. Wick of Northfield, Ill., Beatrice O. Hart of London, and John B. Diebold of Nyack, N.Y.
      
Miss Attaway is survived by a sister, Florence Miller, of Chicago.
      
Surviving is a sister, Shirley Rittler Lang of Baltimore.
      
She is survived by two sons, John of Belmont, Mass., and Thomas of South Salem; a sister, Mrs. Elaine Ducas Rueff of Pleasantville, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
Her early sound films included ''Holiday'' (1930), playing the materialistic sister of Ann Harding, and ''Red Dust'' (1932), in which she portrayed a frustrated wife attracted to Clark Gable.
Mrs. Marek is survived by her husband, Richard, who is president and publisher of E. P. Dutton, the book publishing company; a son, Alan; a daughter, Elizabeth; her parents, Maurice and Anita Ravage; a brother, Alan Ravage, and a sister, Susan Herron, all of Manhattan.
Miss Johnson, whose cancer was diagnosed about a month ago, is survived by a sister, Maria Johnson, with whom she lived at the Herman M. Wilson Health Care Center of the Asbury Methodist Retirement Center in Gaithersburg.
Miss Gordon and her twin sister recently gave a library wing to the Roxbury Latin School in Boston's West Roxbury district in honor of their sister-in-law, Mary Rousmaniere Gordon.
Besides her twin, Mary E. Gordon of Boston, Miss Gordon is survived by another sister, Sarah Gayley of New York, and a brother, Albert H. Gordon of New York.
      
Dr. Weithorn is survived by her husband, Stanley S. Weithorn; a daughter, Lois A. Weithorn of Palo Alto, Calif.; a son, Michael J., of Los Angeles; her mother, Frieda A. Breslow of Fresh Meadows, Queens, and a sister, Elaine M. Brody of Philadelphia.
      
; a brother, Joseph Wallace, of New Rochelle; a sister, Zena Wallace of Manhattan; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Relief Work in World War II
        During World War II, her sister was killed in a German air raid on London, and Miss Carroll went back to England, where she did war-relief work.
Mrs. Saladino is survived by her husband; a son, J. Graham, of Norfolk and Manhattan; her parents, Gladys and Wyatt Burl Hendrick, a brother, Robert, and a sister, Myra Grace, all of Lawton, and a sister, Elizabeth Maloney of Fairfax, Va.
        A funeral service is to be held tomorrow at 11 A.M. at St. Bartholomew's Church at 109 East 50th Street.
      
Mrs. Saladino is survived by her husband; a son, J. Graham, of Norfolk and Manhattan; her parents, Gladys and Wyatt Burl Hendrick, a brother, Robert, and a sister, Myra Grace, all of Lawton, and a sister, Elizabeth Maloney of Fairfax, Va.
        A funeral service is to be held tomorrow at 11 A.M. at St. Bartholomew's Church at 109 East 50th Street.
      
She is survived by her husband, Emanuel, and a sister, Constance Connors of Bethel Island, Calif.
Miss Maroselli is survived by a sister, Grace of New York City, and a nephew, Greg of Atlanta.
      

       Sister Eleanor O'Byrne, a leading Roman Catholic educator, died after a short illness Sunday at Kenwood Convent of the Sacred Heart in Albany.
Sister Eleanor O'Byrne, a leading Roman Catholic educator, died after a short illness Sunday at Kenwood Convent of the Sacred Heart in Albany.
The president of Manhattanville College from 1945 to 1966, Sister O'Byrne played a major role in the decision to move the college from New York City to Purchase in Westchester County in 1952.
Sister O'Byrne was born in 1896 in Savannah, Ga. She became a nun in 1916, entering the Society of the Sacred Heart in Albany.
Sister O'Byrne served on the American Council on Education, the American Association of University Women, and the White House Conference on Education.
She is survived by a half sister, Sally Holcomb, of Fairfield, Conn.
      
