Correction:  January 22, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary on Thursday about Rosemary Glyde, a violist and composer, misstated the given name of a surviving sister.
Mrs. Cullman is survived by her daughter, Dorothy Cullman Treisman of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a sister, Betty Asiel of White Plains, and two grandsons.
She is survived by two brothers, Edward and Gerald, and a sister, Helen Courain, all of Bayonne, N.J.
      
Mrs. Moorman was also the editor of "The Journals of Dorothy Wordsworth" -- the poet's eloquent sister -- which first appeared in 1971 and is still in print in the United States from Oxford University Press.
In 1931 Hollywood made a film of her third book, "Sob Sister," which she defined as "a reporter who almost literally sobbed with the victim, the culprit, the families of both.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a sister, Caroline Averill Rogers, of Patten, Me.
      

        Hilda Simms, an actress best known for her starring role on Broadway in "Anna Lucasta," died on Sunday in Buffalo at the home of her sister Evelyn Sharp.
The cause was cancer of the pancreas, her sister said.
In addition to her sister Evelyn, she is survived by her husband, of Los Angeles; two brothers, Richard Ricco of Minneapolis and Emil Moses Jr. of Tucson, Ariz., and two other sisters, Laura Thompson of New Orleans and Rose Napue of Minneapolis.
      
; a sister, Harriet Gilcreast of Bedford, Mass., and a stepson, Francis R. Hart 3d of Hingham, Mass.
      
Her sister, Alice Fordyce, was the executive vice president of the foundation and director of the Lasker Awards program.
Mrs. Wasson is survived by two daughters, Elizabeth W. Bergstrom of South Harpswell, Me., and Anne Harney Gallagher of Boston; a son, Edward B., of Denver; a sister, Helen Hauser Jordan of Short Hills., N.J.; 13 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Hunter is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Cheryl,, of Los Angeles; a son, Robin, of Santa Monica; a sister, Dorothy Horner, of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Eve Pomerance of London; a son, Moby Pomerance of Manhattan; a brother, Nicholas, of London, and a sister, Anne Zribi of Paris.
      
Mrs. Harvey is survived by her husband; four sons, Alan, of Larchmont, Russel, of Manhattan, Adam, of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and Eric, of Larchmont; a stepdaughter, Shulamis Bush of Brooklyn; a sister, Ruth Korten of Winter Park, Fla.; a brother, Eric Lorne Sr. of Inverness, Fla., and three stepgrandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Kenneth, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Alice Robinson of Manhattan; her parents, Norris and Natalie Konheim of Longboat Key, Fla., and a sister, Patty Goldenberg of Waban, Mass.
      
; a daughter, Margaret L. Starbird of Tacoma, Wash.; a sister, Alice B. Miller of Fort Belvoir, 13 grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      

        Dr. Edith Porada, a Columbia University art historian and archeologist, died on Thursday in Honolulu, where she was staying with her sister.
Dr. Porada is survived by her sister, Hildegard Randolph.
      
She is survived by a sister, Dorothy Schlagel of Santa Barbara.
      
At home, Helen, her sister and her parents spoke German, Turkish and Serbian.
In addition to her son, a professor of music and classics at Dartmouth College, she is survived by a stepson, Nikolaus Wolff of Norwich, Vt.; a stepdaughter, Maria Stadelmayer of Hamburg, Germany; a brother, George Mosel of Santiago, Chile; a sister, Elizabeth Steinbeis of Brannenburg, Germany, and 10 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Schwartz is survived by her husband of 30 years, Stanley; two daughters, Blair and Kim; her mother, Blanche Rosenzweig Levine of Bal Harbour, Fla.; a sister, Carol Nussbaum of Charleston, S.C., and a brother, Lawrence Rosenzweig of Manhattan and Bal Harbour.
      
"
        She appeared with her sister, Bettina, in "Three Little Girls" in 1931.
Miss Hall was born in Warwick, R.I.
        She is survived by her daughter and a sister, Bettina Rubicam of Scottsdale, Ariz.
      
She is survived by her mother, Janet Strain; a brother, Bob, and a sister, Terri Sullivan, all of Cliffside Park, N.J.
      
Ms. Furness also worked in the theater in summer stock and road productions, among them "Doughgirls" and "My Sister Eileen," then moved to television.
She is survived by a sister, Irma Kauderer of Fort Worth.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, Marcia Israel.
The chain was run by her sister, Marcia Israel.
She is survived by a daughter, Jennifer C. Schmid of Lawrenceville, Ga., and a sister, Rachel E. Brodeaux of Harlingen, Tex.
      
With few exceptions -- the stock and road productions of "Golden Boy," "My Sister Eileen" and "Doughgirls" -- the career that had started with promise seemed to be going nowhere.
She is survived by her husband, Eugene Zuriff; her daughter, Jennifer Reisman of Atlanta; two stepsons, Laurence Zuriff of Washington and Bryan Zuriff of Los Angeles, and a sister, Judith, who lives in Florida.
      
In addition to her husband, who maintains homes in New York, Philadelphia and Miami, she is survived by two sons, Robert, of Philadelphia and Alan, of Miami; a sister, Florence Jans of Miami; a brother, Marvin Chaiken of Tucson, Ariz., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, of Manhattan; her mother, Queen Esther Johnson of Oakland, Calif.; three brothers, Thomas W. Jr. of Manhattan, William of Oakland, and Ronald of Sacramento, Calif., and a sister, Rose Johnson of San Jose, Calif.
      
Miss Clarke met Mr. Ailey in the mid-1950's when he danced on Broadway in "House of Flowers," a show in which her sister, Lou Camacho, also performed.
In the 1920's and 30's, she often toured with her sister, Beatrice Burford, a harpist.
Besides her father, Ms. Dunbar is survived by her sister, Dr. Adrienne Dunbar of Coral Springs, Fla., and a brother, Dean, of Montclair, N.J.
      
It was the home of Fielding Lewis, whose wife, Betty, was George Washington's only sister.
She is survived by three daughters, Julia B. Leisenring of Berwyn, Pa., Antonia B. Laird of Chadds Ford and Susan B. Parker of Smith's Parish, Bermuda; a sister, Anne A.
A sister, Caroline, known as Lee, was born four years later.
"
        Mrs. Onassis is survived by her daughter, Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg; a son, John F. Kennedy Jr.; her sister, Lee Radziwill Ross, and three grandchildren, Rose Kennedy, Tatiana Celia Kennedy and John Bouvier Kennedy Schlossberg.

        Sister Ellen Lawlor, president of the Mercycare Corporation, which is operated by the Religious Sisters of Mercy, died on Monday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany.
Sister Lawlor, who lived in Albany, was 70.
Sister Lawlor was a member of the Albany Regional Community of the Religious Sisters of Mercy of the Americas for 48 years.
Sister Lawlor was also instrumental in the creation of the Eastern Mercy Health System of 13 hospitals and nursing homes from Maine to Florida.
Before her involvement in health care, Sister Lawlor was a teacher and administrator at Catholic schools in Albany and Troy.
She is survived by one sibling, Sister Anne Lawlor, who is also a member of the Religious Sisters of Mercy in Albany, and a sister-in-law, Mary Lawlor of Des Plaines, Ill.
      
She is survived by her sister, Helena Pittman of Huntington, L.I.
      
Judge Forer is survived by her husband, Morris L. Forer; two sons, Stuart, of Warwick, R.I., and John, of Philadelphia; a daughter, Hope Forer Ross of Manhattan; a sister, Marion Schott of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and two grandsons.
In addition to her niece, she is survived by a sister, Mary Chute Smith of Morris Plains, N.J.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Barbara Potter of Woodbury, Conn., and Elizabeth Crabtree of Midland Park, N.J.; a sister, Elizabeth B. Ultes of Columbus, Ohio; seven grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
Her sister, Delfa, said the cause was leukemia.
She is survived by her sister, of Wingdale, N.Y.
      
She is survived by seven daughters and sons: Judy, David, Gladys, Peter, Abena and Ayana, all of Harlem, and Mark, a resident of Spring Valley, N.Y. Also surviving is a sister, Pearl Edwards, of St. John's, Antigua.
      
In addition to her husband, a novelist and a former editor and executive of WNET, she is survived by two sons, Daniel, a theatrical-lighting designer, of Manhattan, and Alex, an author, of Oak Park Ill., and a sister, Peggy L. Snyder of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Ralph; a son, Joseph R., of Boston; two daughters, Eva M. Grizell of Boston and Nichole Devanna of Ardsley; two grandchildren, and a sister, Barbara Schwab of Mount Laurel, N.J.
      
In addition to her son, of Fort Wayne, Ind., she is survived by her husband, Dr. Lester D. Rothman; a brother, Matthew, and a sister, Josephine Bono, both of Kansas City, and a grandson, Wilson J. Rothman.
      
The cause was colon cancer, said Nancy Newcomer Vick, her sister.
In addition to her sister Nancy Vick, of Bedford, N.Y., she is survived by her companion, Paul Wigsten; her parents, Judge Clarence C. and Jane Newcomer, of Lancaster, Pa., and Philadelphia, and another sister, Judy Birkett of Lancaster.
In addition to her sister Nancy Vick, of Bedford, N.Y., she is survived by her companion, Paul Wigsten; her parents, Judge Clarence C. and Jane Newcomer, of Lancaster, Pa., and Philadelphia, and another sister, Judy Birkett of Lancaster.
The cause was pneumonia, which developed after a stroke, said her sister, Isabel Powell.
She also was a drama editor and columnist for The People's Voice, a New York weekly newspaper published by Adam Clayton Powell Jr., her sister's husband at the time.
Mrs. Hong is survived by three sons; Alfred of Jamaica Estates, Robert of Syosset, L.I., and Morris of Fresh Meadows, Queens; a daughter, Virginia Wei of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Herbert Moy of Chicago; a sister, Mae Wu of Berkeley, Calif.; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Modell's first stories appeared in The New Yorker in the early 1940's, and several novels followed, among them "The Sound of Years" (1946) and "My Sister, My Bride" (1948).
The cause was cancer, her sister, Eva Mevorah, said.
Mrs. Klein is survived by her sister, of Manhattan.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Colette, also of Woodbridge, and a sister, Nola Royce of Delmar, N.Y.
      
Mrs. McDonald is survived by a son, Dr. Brian F. of Rockville Centre; a sister, Anna Gordon of Bayside, Queens, and two grandchildren.
; two daughters, Anne Adler Tarbell and Mary Ballard Malhotra, both of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Katherine Turpin Gnugnoli of Washington and Mary Turpin Barradale of Richmond; a sister, Mary Tyler McClenahan of Richmond; a brother, James Douglas Freeman of Richmond, and three grandchildren.
      
Her followers include Sister Parish, Mark Hampton and Mario Buatta.
In addition to her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Lancaster is survived by a son, Michael Tree; a sister, Alice Winn; and two granddaughters, all of London.
      
In addition to Ms. Miller and Mr. Edwards, Ms. Vance is survived by her mother, Laura Vance of Chicago, and a sister, Latrice Lee, of Markham.
      
Mrs. Price is survived by her husband, Kenneth W., of Waccabuc; a daughter, Darcy Lee Price of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Timothy of Port Jervis, N.Y.; and a sister, Barbara Lee Crowder of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      
The cause of death was a stroke, according to her sister, Mary Whelan Prue Warburg.
She is survived by a son, Rodolphe, of London; a daughter, Tess d'Erlanger, of Oxford, England; three grandsons, and her sister, of Wilton, Conn..
        She was buried in Geneva.
      
"
        She is survived by her husband, Robert Kaylor; a son, Ross; two stepdaughters, Robin and Sarah, and three brothers and a sister.
      
She is survived by her husband, Fred Kasoff; two daughters, Pamela Ehrenkranz of New York City and Jean LeGrand of Chicago; a sister, Babette Cohen of Rosyln Heights, L.I., and 16 grandchildren.
Also surviving are her mother, Helen, and a sister, Carol Martini of Philadelphia.
      
Her parents and only sister died by the time she was 18, losses that depressed her for years, and she then decided on a career in the theater in New York City.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by their son, Max; a stepson, Lem Dobbs of Los Angeles; a stepdaughter, Dominie Kitaj of London; her father, Gene, of Tucson, Ariz.; her mother, Ethel, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a sister, Margaret, of Emeryville, Calif., and a stepgrandson, Joe Kitaj of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by her husband, Raymond A. Wolff Jr., the leader of the Dutch Wolff Orchestra, a society band; two daughters, Margaret, of Seattle, and Melora, of Oneonta, N.Y., and a sister, Beverly Earle Knapp of New York City.
      
Besides her son Paul, she is survived by another son, Carlson Brown Klapthor of Washington; a daughter, Frances Andrews of Baltimore; a sister, Mary Berry Moore of Port Tobacco, Md., and four grandchildren.
      

        Sister Parish, the acclaimed and enduring American interior decorator who began her career when she was a young Depression-era mother and later came to redesign rooms of the White House during the Kennedy Administration, died on Thursday at her home in Dark Harbor, Maine.
As Town & Country magazine recounted it in 1988, the First Lady "fired Sister for telling little Caroline to keep her feet off the upholstery.
Sister would later describe the experience in explicit, harsh terms.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Barry Magid; her parents, Peter and Ruth Norden, of Hartsdale; a sister, Linda Norden, of Manhattan, and a grandmother, Margaret Norden, of Forest Hills, Queens.
      
She is survived by her husband, Harold L. Korn; two brothers, Lawrence, of Brunswick, Me., and Philip, of Auburn Hills, Mich., and a sister, Beth, of Carlisle, Iowa.
      
"
        The play, co-starring Marlon Brando in the role of Stanley Kowalski and Kim Hunter as Blanche's sister, Stella, won rapturous reviews, a Pulitzer Prize and the Drama Critics Circle Award and ran for more than two years on Broadway before going on a national tour.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her daughter, Ava, of Troy, and a sister, Flora Holzheimer, of Schmalwasser, Germany.
      

        Sister Mary Margaret Johanning, a lecturer and consultant on theological affairs and the former international community leader of the School Sisters of Notre Dame, died on Saturday at St. Marys Health Center in Jefferson City, Mo.
Sister Mary Margaret was elected to the Provincial Council of the School Sisters of Notre Dame in St. Louis in 1971 and served as the international leader in Rome from 1977 to 1987.
In 1989, Sister Mary Margaret became Chancellor of the Jefferson City diocese, a position reached by only a few women in the Catholic Church in the United States.
Sister Mary Margaret, a native of Glasgow, Mo., was an economics graduate of Notre Dame College in St. Louis.
Sister Mary Margaret is survived by her parents, Bernard and Gertrude Johanning of Glasgow; four brothers, Jerome, of Mound, Minn., Myrl, of Shawnee, Kan., Bob, of Glasgow, and Don, of Sturgeon, Mo., and two sisters, Joetta Jones of Jasper, Ind., and Cindy Monnig of Jefferson City.
      
"
        Her mother taught her to read and write while the family, which also included her sister and brother, crisscrossed the country.
She died of complications of Parkinson's disease, said her sister Clare, also of Edmonds.
Moving back to the Seattle area, she became an assistant to her sister Dorothy, a teacher and choreographer, who died in 1988.
Miss Fisher is survived by her sister Clare.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Betty Hobin of Palm Beach, Fla., and Hopewell Township, N.J.; five grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and a sister, Margaret G. Finley of Haddonfield, N.J. A son, Paul Roebling, died in July.
      
She is survived by a son, Jason M. Anderson of Boca Raton, Fla.; a daughter, Amy J. Anderson of East Falmouth; a stepdaughter, Sherri O'Grady of Boston; a sister, Pat Hodges of Ashland, Neb., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to Ms. Chernela Mount, she is survived by another daughter, Susan Chernilo, and a son, Abbey Chernela, both of New York; a sister, Diane Graf of Southbury, Conn., and a brother, Paul Moss of Hewlett, L.I.
      
She is survived by a sister, Olivia, of Manhattan, and three nephews, Ely J. Kahn 3d of Cohasset, Mass.
Among the nearly 150 films she made were "Rumba," her first full-length movie in 1935; "The Road to Zanzibar" (1941), the second of Bob Hope and Bing Crosby's "Road" movies; "His Butler's Sister" (1943), with Deanna Durbin, and "The Woman in the Window," a 1944 thriller with Edward G. Robinson.
The cause was a heart attack, said her sister, Coreania Carter.
She is survived by her sister, of St. Albans, Queens.
      
Her sister, Charlene Rudolph, said Rudolph learned in July that she had a malignant brain tumor.
She is survived by her three sons, Dr. David Lewis of Linkoping, Sweden, Frank Lewis of Phoenix, and Peter Lewis of Baltimore; a sister, Ernestine D. Hanwell of Atlanta; a brother, Paul Dietrich of Ridge, L.I.
Her sister, Beatrice Lees, said Mrs. Spolin had three strokes in recent years.
In addition to her sister, of New York City, and her son Paul, of Baileys Harbor, Wis., she is survived by her third husband, Robert Kolmus Greene; another son, William Sills of Oakland, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Rathgeb is survived by her husband of 34 years, Donald Sr.; three daughters, Elizabeth Pratt of Amesbury, Mass., and Laura Rathgeb and Mary Jo Balaskas, both of Manhattan; a son, Donald Jr. of Burlington, Vt.; a sister, Laura Mae Hellrung of Alton, Ill.; a brother, Howard Ellspermann of Cape Coral, Fla., and one granddaughter.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Holly Crumpton; a brother, Rue Knapp; a sister, Mary Lou DiNardo, and a granddaughter, Crystal, all of Atlanta.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by her son, Charles, of Cliffside, N.J., and her sister, Norma Kramer of New York City.
      
; a sister, Leslie Randall of Newton, Conn., and eight grandchildren.
      
" The second reason she gave was respect for the older sister of Mme.

        Anita Zahn, a longtime teacher of the technique and dances of Isadora Duncan and her sister Elizabeth Duncan, died on Nov. 3 at her home in Grants Pass, Ore. She was 91.
Unlike them, Ms. Zahn was a direct disciple of Elizabeth Duncan, who directed her sister's school in Grunewald, Germany, before World War I.
She is survived by a sister, Florence Pollack of Athens, Ga.
      
In his review in The New York Times, Lewis Nichols wrote that she brought "a shy helplessness, a desire to be liked" to a role that was based on Williams's sister.
She is survived by her sister, Miriam Donaldson Ziegler of Los Angeles.
      
In addition to her mother, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, John Salmon, a retired Bryn Mawr history professor; a daughter by a previous marriage, Ashley Minihan of Villanova, and a sister, Barbara Berresford of Manhattan.
      
