Besides her husband, Ms. Dent is survived by a brother, Stephen Dent of Riverside, Conn., and a sister, Melissa Dent of Manhattan.
''
        Ms. Barr is survived by a daughter and a sister.
      
Professor McKay, who was divorced as a young woman, is survived by a sister, Constance Prout of Hollywood, Fla.; two children, Patricia Watson of St. Louis and Harry McKay of New York; one grandchild; and one great-grandchild.
      
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Wasserstein is survived by her mother, Lola Wasserstein; her brothers, Abner and Bruce, the chairman of the investment banking giant Lazard and the owner of New York magazine; and her sister Georgette Levis of Vermont.
Ms. Wasserstein's other writing included a spoof of self-help literature, ''Sloth'' (Oxford University Press, 2005), and two books of essays, ''Bachelor Girls'' (Knopf, 1990) and ''Shiksa Goddess'' (Knopf, 2001), eclectic collections that embraced such disparate topics as Chekhov, her sister's battle with breast cancer, and the life and career of Mrs. Entenmann, creator of a bakery empire and fosterer of much guilt.
As a teenager, wearing high heels borrowed from her older sister, Blanche, and with six powder puffs stuffed into her bra, she auditioned during a nationwide search for an actress to play Scarlett O'Hara in ''Gone With the Wind.
Ms. Winters played a harem girl in ''A Thousand and One Nights'' (1945), was lent to Samuel Goldwyn to play the heroine's younger sister in the film version of ''Knickerbocker Holiday'' (1944) and was jettisoned by Columbia after a year for not being ''movie material.
She is survived by a sister, Jane Brower, of Winnetka, Ill.
      
Dr. Reiner is survived by a sister, Eva Cherna of Montreal.
      
Besides her husband, a retired co-chairman of the Seagram Company, Mrs. Bronfman is survived by a sister, Marcia Flanders, of Montreal; three children from her first marriage, Jeremy Cohen of Manhattan, Pippa Cohen of Manhattan and Tony Cohen of Toronto; two stepchildren, Stephen Bronfman of Montreal and Ellen Hauptman of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren.
      
She was admitted to the hospital last Thursday, said her sister, Edythe Scott Bagley.
She graduated first in her high school class of 17 in 1945 and attended Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, where, two years earlier, her older sister, Edythe, had been the first black to enroll.
''
        Besides her four children and her sister, Edythe, of Cheyney, Pa., survivors include her brother, Obie Leonard Scott of Greensboro, Ala.
        Mrs. King remained a beloved figure, often compared to Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis as a woman who overcame tragedy, held her family together and became an inspirational presence around the world.
''
        Correction:  February 17, 2006, Friday  An obituary of Coretta Scott King on Feb. 1 misstated the precedent set by her older sister, Edythe, at Antioch College, from which Mrs. King graduated.
Her sister was the first to receive a scholarship under a program set up in 1945 to recruit minority students, not the first black to enroll.
      
She is survived by a sister, Jean Beasley; a brother, Charlie Nellums; a son, Cedric; and a granddaughter, according to the University of Southern California.
      
''
        One sister, Ruth Lewis Smith, and a brother, George Lewis, both of Unionville, survive Miss Lewis, as does a stepsister, Bessie Jones of Philadelphia.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
''
        Correction:  February 8, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday and in some copies on Sunday about Betty Friedan, the pioneering feminist who wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' misstated the residence of her sister, Amy Adams.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
Correction:  February 8, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday and in some copies on Sunday about Betty Friedan, the pioneering feminist who wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' misstated the residence of her sister, Amy Adams.
She is survived by a sister, Dr. Johanna Pel-Mellink of the Netherlands; and by nieces and nephews.
      
She, her mother, sister and a nanny escaped to Finland.
In 1934, she moved to New York to join her sister, who was six years older and had a job in the home furnishings department of Abraham & Straus, the Brooklyn department store.
''
        She is survived by a sister, Patricia Hazard Powers Frech, of Manhattan.
      
The Dixons were the first brother and sister to coach in the N.C.A.A.
In addition to her brother, Dixon is survived by her parents, Jim and Marge Dixon of North Hollywood, and a sister, Julie.
Ms. Rau, who was divorced, is survived by three sons, Taylor Pattison, George Pattison and Jean-Paul Menard, all of Northport; two daughters, Anne Pattison of London and Stephanie Pattison of Wellington, Fla.; a sister, Roli, and a brother, Forest, both of Louisiana; and four grandchildren.
In addition to Ms. Wolny, Ms. Maguire is survived by her parents, Nina and Arthur, of Harrison; a sister, Regina Moynihan, of New Rochelle, N.Y.; and two brothers, Arthur, of New Canaan, Conn., and James, of Yonkers.

        Sister Rose Thering, a Roman Catholic nun and a former professor at Seton Hall University who battled anti-Semitism within her church and contributed to a historic Vatican declaration that Jews were not collectively responsible for the death of Jesus, died on Saturday at a convent in Racine, Wis. She was 85.
She said Sister Rose died at the Siena Center of the Sisters of St. Dominic, where she entered religious life in 1936 and had lived since retiring last year as professor emerita of education at Seton Hall, in South Orange, N.J.
Sister Rose -- who wore a Star of David fused to the cross on her neck, used words like ''chutzpah,'' and closed her letters with ''shalom'' -- devoted most of her adult life to writing, lecturing and traveling the world in a quest to promote greater understanding in the often-strained relationships between Christians and Jews.
''The death of Sister Rose Thering is an immense loss for the entire Seton Hall family, indeed for all men and women who seek to forge a world of greater understanding,'' said Msgr.
In 1962, when Pope John XXIII convened the ecumenical council known as Vatican II, Cardinal Augustin Bea used Sister Rose's study to draft portions of the 1965 Vatican document ''Nostra Aetate,'' (''In Our Age''), which reversed church policy and declared of Christ's death that ''what happened in his passion cannot be charged against all the Jews, without distinction, then alive, nor against the Jews of today,'' and, as for teaching, added: ''The Jews should not be presented as rejected or accursed by God.
''
        ''They were 15 lines in Latin,'' Sister Rose recalled later, ''but they changed everything.
Sister Rose became an activist-teacher.
In 1974, Sister Rose presented a menorah to Pope Paul VI at the Vatican.
Ms. Irwin and her sister were often models for Mrs.
She is survived by her husband of 41 years, Dr. Robert E. Roberts, a chemist and director of the Science and Technology Policy Institute in Washington; two sons, Dr. Karl Roberts, an orthopedic surgeon in Grand Rapids, Mich., and Greg Roberts, of Alpharetta, Ga.; a sister, Dorrie Derge, of Frederick, Md.
Ms. McLaughlin is survived by a sister, Rosanne McLaughlin Morey of Montclair, N.J., and by several nieces and nephews.
She said it was no surprise that she became active in labor and politics because her father, a carpenter, was a union man and Socialist émigré from Belarus while an older sister was once arrested in a suffragists' protest in front of the White House.
Another sister, Alexis, died of cancer six years ago.
In 1949, while on a two-month vacation in Paris, where her sister Lois Towles was touring with the concert choir of Fisk University, Ms. Church decided to try modeling there.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Kew Gardens, Queens, Ms. Uhnak is survived by her husband, Anthony, and a sister, Mary Ellis of Hartsdale, N.Y.
''
        Correction:  July 26, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on July 12 about Dorothy Uhnak, the policewoman turned detective novelist, gave an incorrect given name for her surviving sister.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Foster is survived by a daughter, Rachel Kodsi, and a son, Joshua, both of Brooklyn; a sister, Jeanette Katz, of Queens; and three grandchildren.
In addition to her son Lawrence Jr., of the Bronx, she is survived by another son, Bruce E. Bailey, a physician, of Norwich, Conn.; a sister, Danetta Black, formerly of White Plains; and three grandchildren.
Adding further exotic gloss to the Yarde-Buller clan was the duchess's sister Joan, who married the playboy Prince Aly Khan, converted to Islam and adopted the name Princess Tajuldowlah.
Besides her parents, she is survived by her husband, David Mahler, of Brooklyn; a brother, Christopher; and a sister, Rachel, both of Washington.
      
She is survived by Ms. Grossman; her parents, Joe and Annette Rubin of Marco Island, Fla.; a sister, Phyllis Gelman, of Albuquerque, N.M.; and a stepdaughter, Laura Corkery, of Larkspur, Ga.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by her son, Max, and her sister, Beba Shamash of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a sister, Paola, who was with her when she died, Italian news reports said.

        Patricia Kennedy Lawford, who as a sister of President John F. Kennedy had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, died yesterday at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 82 and also had a home in Manhattan.
''
        Much like her older sister, Kathleen, who made her mother furious by marrying outside her church, Patricia disappointed her parents by marrying Mr. Lawford, a nominal Episcopalian who agreed to raise their childen as Catholics.
The house became a recreation center for other family members, and the President would spend time lounging at his sister's pool when he was on the West Coast.
She had a close personal appreciation for both causes: her older sister Rosemary was born mildly retarded and was lobotomized at 23, and she, Mr. Lawford and her son Christopher had waged their own battles with drugs and alcohol.
Correction:  September 19, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary in some copies yesterday about Patricia Kennedy Lawford, a sister of President John F. Kennedy, misstated the location of her death.
The article also erroneously included a survivor; her sister Rosemary Kennedy died last year.

        Patricia Kennedy Lawford, who as a sister of President John F. Kennedy had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Much like her older sister Kathleen, who made her mother furious by marrying outside her church, Patricia disappointed her parents by marrying Mr. Lawford, a nominal Episcopalian who agreed to rear their children as Catholics.
The house became a recreation center for other family members; the president spent time lounging at his sister's pool when he was on the West Coast.
She had a close personal appreciation for both causes: her older sister Rosemary, who died last year, was born mildly retarded and was lobotomized at 23; and she, Mr. Lawford and her son had waged their own battles with drugs and alcohol.
Correction:  September 19, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary in some copies yesterday about Patricia Kennedy Lawford, a sister of President John F. Kennedy, misstated the location of her death.
The article also erroneously included a survivor; her sister Rosemary Kennedy died last year.
A close friend she regarded as a sister, whom she had recruited to spy with her, was killed by a sniper while she was in the back seat of a car driven by Ms. Deschamps, who then quickly had to dig the grave.
The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, her sister, Sheila Daly White, said.
Besides her sister, Ms. White, of Manhattan, she is survived by a son, Patrick McGivern, of Palm Desert, and two grandchildren.
Her elder sister, Lalitha, and younger sister, Ragini, were also talented actresses and dancers; the three were known as the Travancore Sisters.
Her elder sister, Lalitha, and younger sister, Ragini, were also talented actresses and dancers; the three were known as the Travancore Sisters.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband of 24 years, David Cuming; a son, Andrew; and a sister, Rita Blake, all of Manhattan.
Her death was announced by her sister Elizabeth L. Eisenstein of Washington, who survives her, along with two other sisters, Joan Crowell of Quogue, N.Y., and Virginia L. Kahn of Cambridge, Mass.
Mrs. Carr is survived by her brother, William G. Halsey, of Basking Ridge, N.J., and her sister, Dorothy K. Halsey, of Chatham, Mass.
They were still wedded to Broadway, however, and their stage work during the next few years included the Jule Styne musical ''Two on the Aisle'' (1951), a revue with Bert Lahr and Dolores Gray; ''Wonderful Town'' (1953), an adaptation of the 1939 comedy hit ''My Sister Eileen,'' with music by Mr. Bernstein and starring Rosalind Russell and Edie Adams as two sisters from Ohio trying to make it in the Big Town; and, most notably, ''Bells Are Ringing.
Dr. Levit is survived by two sons, Dr. David Levit of Amherst, a psychoanalyst, and Dr. Harry Levit of New Haven, associate director of undergraduate admissions at Yale; a sister, Sylvia Kaufman of Jerusalem; and two grandchildren.
      
Toward the book's end, Ern, as Mrs. Carey was called, briefly enjoyed some of the spotlight when she and her older sister, Anne (who died in 1987), began dating in high school.
After her older sister, Jean, became a bit player in Hollywood -- she worked first as Jean Morgan and later as Jean Fenwick -- the family relocated to California.
Following her sister into acting, Ms. Marsh began her career in the late 1920s as Marilyn Morgan.
She is also survived by two sons, H. Ben, of San Francisco, and Kramer, of Los Angeles; a sister, Alice Barzilay of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
