Surviving are a brother, Robert Harrell of Carbondale, and a sister, Jane Ferguson of Norcross, Ga.
      

       Virginia Thompson Adloff, an author and teacher who wrote extensively on the countries of Southeast Asia and French-speaking Africa, died on Tuesday at the home of her sister in La Jolla, Calif. She was 86 years old and a longtime resident of Manhattan.
Virginia Thompson Adloff, an author and teacher who wrote extensively on the countries of Southeast Asia and French-speaking Africa, died on Tuesday at the home of her sister in La Jolla, Calif. She was 86 years old and a longtime resident of Manhattan.
She is survived by her husband and her sister, Juliet Pitt.
      
Survivors are her mother, Clarice Lee of La Jolla, Calif., and a sister, Lucille Driskell of Philadelphia.
      
She is survived by her sister, Diana S. Granof of Bethesda, Md.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Susan, of Manhattan; her mother, Rae Leventhal, of Pottstown; a brother, Harris, of Cherry Hill, N.J., and a sister, Elizabeth Feifer, of Long Island.
      
She is survived by a sister Arlyne Fisher of Bayside, Queens, and a brother, Joseph Orman Fisher of Montclair, N.J.
      
Mrs. Ruebhausen is survived by her husband, Oscar; a twin brother, Robert M. Peet of Hanover, N.H., and a sister, Sarah Lewis of Philadelphia.
      
She took commercial courses in high school, and an older brother paid her tuition so she could continue secretarial studies for a year at Atlantic Christian College in Wilson, N.C.
        At 18, she visited her eldest sister, Beatrice, in New York City, on a journey that transformed her life.
She is survived by a sister, Mildred Hearsey of Hackettstown, N.J.
      

       Sister R. Mildred Barker, the spiritual leader of Maine's Shaker community, died on Thursday after a long illness.
Sister R. Mildred Barker, the spiritual leader of Maine's Shaker community, died on Thursday after a long illness.
In 1931 Sister Mildred was put in charge of the Shakers' jelly and jam industry and candy-making business.
For many years Miss Klein raised money for Kingsbrook as president of the Miriam Klein Research Foundation, which was founded by her mother in memory of a sister.
; a brother, Melvin Braverman; a sister, Isabelle Kistenberg, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Molly Henderson, of Norwood, Mass., and a brother, Judson Moak, of Ocala, Fla.
      
Survivors include two daughters, Sarah P. Gwynn of Atlanta and Emmy P. Casey of Chattanooga, two sons, D. Carter Patten 3d and W. A Bryan Patten of Chattanooga, a sister and 11 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her mother, Gloria Marsteller of Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Elizabeth A. Gordon of San Francisco.
      
She is survived by a brother, Rognar Anderson of Colton, and a sister, Eleanor Kearnes of Oregon City, Ore.
      
; Thomas Tone of Ottawa, and Cornel Wallace Wilde of Beverly Hills, a brother, John Wallace of Los Angeles, a sister, Karol Crawford of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Jonathan A., of Mountain View, Calif.; a daughter, Joanna Caproni of Manhattan; a sister, M. Helen Burnard of Nashua, N.H.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband, Gregg C. Bissell; a stepson; a sister, Lila G. McMillan of Davidson, N.C., and a brother, Robert S. Galloway Jr., of Greenville, S.C.
      
She is survived by her husband and her daughter, Joan, both of Manhattan; a sister, Monica Lewis Lang, and a brother, Marlo Lewis.
      
It was in December that Mrs. Spann was found to be suffering from the disease, which killed her father, James Earl Carter; her sister, Ruth Stapleton, and her other brother,
        Gloria Carter Spann, the last surviving sibling of former President Jimmy Carter, died of pancreatic cancer Monday at Sumter Regional Hospital here.
It was in December that Mrs. Spann was found to be suffering from the disease, which killed her father, James Earl Carter; her sister, Ruth Stapleton, and her other brother, Billy.
; a son, Timothy, of Manhattan; two brothers, Dean Ruth of Washington, and Robert Ruth of Lodi, N.Y.; a sister, Elizabeth Edwards of Cocoa Beach, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Goldson is survived by two sons from an earlier marriage, Clarence and Bradley Funnye of Manhattan; her mother, Gladys Ensley of Birmingham; two brothers, John and Charles Ensley of Manhattan, and a sister, Jean Ensley, also of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her sister, Beatrice Goldman of North Miami Beach.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Elizabeth Pimberman and Susan Telcher of Manhattan; a sister, Elaine Cramer, and a brother, Robert Cramer, also of Manhattan, and another brother, Walter Cramer, of Niles, Ill.
Mrs. Yardley is survived by a sister, Lillian R. Meyer of Whiting, N.J.
      
She is survived by her sister, Alice Rutherfurd of Manhattan; two daughters, Elizabeth Guest Stevens of Washington, and Virginia Guest of New York City; a son, Raymond Jr., of Front Royal, Va., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Alexandra, of Santa Barbara, Calif.
      
Surviving is her sister, Miriam Mechanic of Spring Valley, N.Y.
      
Surviving is her sister, Miriam Mechanic of Spring Valley, N.Y.
      

       Sister Carol Brody, director of the Weekend College at Marymount College in Tarrytown, N.Y., died on Tuesday at the Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx after a brief illness.
Sister Carol Brody, director of the Weekend College at Marymount College in Tarrytown, N.Y., died on Tuesday at the Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx after a brief illness.
Sister Brody, a native New Yorker, entered the religious order of Sacred Heart of Mary in 1947.
Miss Roberts is survived by a twin sister, Anna Craine of Denver, and a nephew, Jim Craine of Sacramento, Calif.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Dorothy Shaffer of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Clement, of Toronto and Lewiston, N.Y.; a sister, Kitty C. Margulies of Manhattan, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      

       Sister Thea Bowman, a nationally active black educator who with song, prayer and persistent exhortation urged the Roman Catholic Church to embrace the culture of African Americans, died of cancer on Friday at her home in Canton, Miss.
Sister Thea Bowman, a nationally active black educator who with song, prayer and persistent exhortation urged the Roman Catholic Church to embrace the culture of African Americans, died of cancer on Friday at her home in Canton, Miss.
Eight months ago, at a semiannual meeting of the nation's Catholic bishops in South Orange, N.J., Sister Thea, suffering from breast and bone cancer, brought the assembly to its feet with an address depicting the black experience in America.
But the work of Sister Thea, a Canton native who was the granddaughter of a slave, was far more than symbolic.
Thomas F. X. Hoar of Winooski, Vt., established the Sister Thea Bowman Black Catholic Educational Foundation to provide financial support for black students at all educational levels.
''
        Sister Thea was to receive the Laetare Medal, the oldest and most prestigious award given to American Catholics, at the University of Notre Dame's commencement exercises on May 20.
Working and Praying Together
        Much of the work of Sister Thea, the only black member of the Franciscan Sisters of Perpetual Adoration, was done through music.
''There's a black church that transcends denominations,'' Sister Thea said in the 1987 interview.
She is survived by a son, Edward, of Glencoe, Ill.; a daughter, Susan, of New York City; a sister, Radie Harris of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sons, Richard and William; a sister, Elinor; five grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      
Ms. Lake is survived by her husband, Leonard Lake; a daughter, Ellen, of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Dorothy Sterling of Wellfleet, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
She entered the Novitiate of the Sisters of Mercy in Tarrytown in 1952 and served as a sister for 19 years, teaching at parochial schools in Tarrytown and in the Bronx.
''
        In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Theodora Andersen, of Burlingame, Calif., and four stepchildren, Alastaire Keith and Camilla Mackesson, the children of Lord Keith, and William Hayward and Brooke Hayward Duchin.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Jennifer, of Washington, and Andrea, of San Francisco; her mother, Ruth Solomon of New York; a brother, Howard Solomon of Bethesda, Md., and a sister, Marquise Sue de Brantes, of St. Armand Lepypre, France.
She moved to New York in 1935 and opened a studio with her sister, Ruth.
She is survived by her sister, Ruth, who lives in a nursing home in Mission Viejo, Calif.
      
She is survived by a sister, Virginia Farmer of the Bronx.
      
She is survived by a sister, Bertha Hirt, of Manhattan.
      
Surviving are her husband, Peter Jr.; four sons, Peter 3d, of Orlando, Fla., James, of Boise, Idaho, William, of Manhattan, and David, of San Francisco; a daughter, Jane, of Manhattan; a brother, William C. Breed 3d of Greenwich; a sister, Ellen Staniford of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by two sons, two daughters and a sister.
      
Ms. Keeble is survived by her daughter, Cayli Cavaco of Manhattan; her mother, Barbara Mott of Bronxville, N.Y., and her sister, Lucy Keeble Wilkinson of Atlanta.
Ms. Keeble is survived by her daughter, Cayli Cavaco of Manhattan; her mother, Barbara Mott of Bronxville, N.Y., and her sister, Lucy Keeble Wilkinson of Atlanta.
; a sister, Barbara Kimball of West Hartford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
Weeks is survived by a sister, Ruth Davis of Washington.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dudley H. Grape; two sons, Peter, of Wellesley, Mass., and Thomas, of Boston; two daughters, Judy Barnett of Darien, Conn., and Dee Karlen of Fairfield; a brother, George A. Oldham Jr. of Peoria, Ariz.; a sister, Lorraine Garger of Golden, Colo., and eight granchildren.
      
In recent months, she had resided at the family homestead in Dayton, N.J.
        She is survived by a sister, Miriam H. Stover of Dayton; a niece and a nephew.
      
Mrs. Corwin is survived, in addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, by her husband, Eugene; a sister, Charlotte Kassel of Washington, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Geraldine, of Washington, Meredith Reuben of Stamford, Conn., and Faith Adamson of Philadelphia, a sister, Bernice Johnson of Boston, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Alison, of Los Angeles; a son, Edgar Valentine Loew of Manhattan; a sister, Eleanor F. Lenzner of Manhattan, and a brother, Myron S. Falk Jr. of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Kramer is survived by her husband and son, and a sister, Renee Rylander of Newark, Del.
      
Mrs. Blair-Hastings is survived by her husband, Jerome Hastings, and a sister, Helen Votichenko, of Scotsdale, Ariz.
      
A widow, she is survived by her sister, Margaret Brinckerhoff of Old Greenwich, Conn.
      
Her sister, Alyce Martha Cox, said she died of congestive heart failure.
She is survived by her son, Brian Garfield of Studio City, Calif.; her sister, who lives in Birmingham, Ala.; and two brothers, Chester O'Brien of Garden City, L.I., and Mortimer O'Brien of Lido Beach, L.I.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Judith Young of Jamestown, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a sister, Katherine Berke of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Bell is also survived by three sons, Derrick 3rd, Douglass, and Carter, all of Cambridge, and a sister, Jessica Shufford, of Fort Washington, Md.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Hyman Lichtenstein; two daughters, Carolyn and Diane; her mother; a sister, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Betty Fife of Salt Lake City; a brother, Joseph Drees of Saratoga, Calif., and a stepdaughter, Eva Brock of Tacoma, Wash.
      
In addition to her daughter of Bedford, N.Y., she is survived by her husband, William E.; three sons from a previous marriage, Henry Sage Jr. of Atlanta, Reginald Sage of Georgetown, S.C., and David Sage of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Duncan Devereux of Virginia Beach; a sister, Audrey Carey of Ponta Vedra, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      
Dr. Shorb is survived by her husband, Doyf; a son, Alan, who lives in Japan; two daughters, Carole Shorb and Barbara Breeden, both of Beltsville; a sister, Margaret Brownfield of Boise, Idaho; seven grandchldren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
She died of lung cancer, her sister, Martha Deutscher, said.
She died of lung cancer, her sister, Martha Deutscher, said.
She is survived by a sister, Ruth S. Stoltz of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., and a stepson, Glynn D. Mapes of London.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Robert; three sons, Robert of Seattle, James of Wellesley, Mass., and Jonathan of Williamstown; a daughter, Cary, of Williamstown; her mother, Ruth M. Chapman of Forsyth, Ga., and a sister, Ruth W. Hassler of Steinhatchee, Fla.
      
; two daughters, Nancy Westendorf of Vienna, W.Va., and Carrie Streim of West Hartford, Conn; a sister, Mina Goldberg of Boston, and six grandchildren.
      

       Dr. Vivian Allison Tenney, an internist and a gynecologist in Manhattan for 45 years, died on Monday at Rockingham Memorial Hospital in Harrisonburg, Va. She was 77 years old and lived in Bridgewater, Va.
        Dr. Vivian Allison Tenney, an internist and a gynecologist in Manhattan for 45 years, died on Monday at Rockingham Memorial Hospital in Harrisonburg, Va. She was 77 years old and lived in Bridgewater, Va.
        She died of a ruptured aneurysm, said her sister and only survivor, Gena Tenney Phenix of Manhattan.
On the London stage, Miss Seyler played Rosalind in ''As You Like It'' in 1920, Hermia in ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' in 1924 and 1933, the heroine's mother in ''Watch on the Rhine'' in 1942, the hero's sister in ''Harvey'' in 1949 and the nurse in ''Romeo and Juliet'' in 1952.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Richard, of Paris, and Bruce, of Jersey City; a daughter, Mary, of Rye; her parents, Marion and Sylvester May of Manhattan; a sister, Patricia Schwartz of New Orleans, and a granddaughter.
      
Survivors include a sister, Earldean V. S. Robbins of San Francisco.
      
She is survived by a two children from a former marriage, her son, Walter of Rye, N.Y., and a daughter, Susan Butler of Pine Plains, N.Y.; a brother, Edwin H. Koehler of Manhattan; and a sister, Carol K. Pforzheimer of Stuart, Fla., five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Parks, who had become blind as a result of diabetes, died of a heart attack that occurred while she was in the hospital, said her sister, Claudette Paul of Richmond, Va.
        Ms.
'' In addition to her sister, she is survived by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. William Parks, and a brother, William Jr., all of Boston.
; a sister, Nancy Etting of Madison, Conn., and 10 grandchildren.
      
Sister Ethel Hudson, who is 94, is now the last of a community of Shakers in Canterbury that once numbered 400 men, women and children.
; a daughter, Norma Lovins, of Hamden, Conn.; a stepson, Stephen Bonime, of Teaneck, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Karen Bonime, of Ukiah, Calif.; a sister, Ruth Fischer, of Manhattan, and nine grandchildren.
      
''
        Her brother, Thomas Hale Boggs, is a prominent lawyer in Washington, and her sister, Cokie Roberts of Bethesda, Md., is a correspondent for National Public Radio and for ABC News on television and radio.
Besides her husband, her mother, her brother and her sister, Mrs. Sigmund is survived by three sons, Paul Jr., of Ann Arbor, Mich., David, of Detroit, and Stephen, of New Orleans.
She died of breast cancer, said her sister Judy Bennett of San Francisco.
Also surviving are her parents, Warren and Mary Bennett of Sarasota, Fla., and another sister, Anne Tremaine of Oakland, Calif.
      
She wrote the screenplays for several films directed by her sister Jacqueline, including "Sophie's Unhappiness" in 1946 and "Bitter Fruit," which won the Grand Prix of French Cinema, in 1966.
Dr. Brush died of pneumonia, her sister, Ruth Seaman Brush of Boston, said.
Her sister is her only survivor.
      
In addition to her son David, she is survived by her son Jeremy, of Philadelphia; a brother, Clair Maxwell of Orlando, Fla.; a sister, Hope Tate, of Oxford, Mich., and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by a sister, Lucille Leslie of Newtown, Pa.; a brother, William C. Steber of State College, Pa., two stepdaughters and one stepson.
      
She also worked with Ms. Ford and her sister Anne on "How to Love the Car in Your Life" (Ford Motor Company, 1972).
She is survived by her husband, Shelly; a daughter, Monica Meyer and a son, Kenneth Meyer, both of Greenvale; her parents, Bolling and Marguerite Ellis of Troy, N.Y.; a sister, Victoria Pelinski of Ballston Lake, N.Y., and two stepdaughters, Alexis and Jessica Gruber of Canton, Ohio.
      
Surviving are her father, Victor, of Manhattan; a sister, Maura, of Los Angeles and Manhattan, and a brother, Chad, of Connecticut.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Bernice Brown of New York.
      
In addition to her niece, she is survived by a sister, Joan Hellinger of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Sobieski is survived by her husband, James; two daughters, Emmy, of Seattle, and Mona, of Santa Monica; a son, Jamie, of Stockton, Calif., and a sister, Wendy Marsh of Amarillo.
      
She is survived by a sister, Louise Pollak of Manhattan.
      
She was 45 years old and also lived in Sea Bright, N.J.
        Ms. Cox died of cancer, a sister, Cynthia Schmidl, said.
She is survived by her husband, George; a daughter, Deborah, and a son, Barry, both of Brooklyn Heights, and a sister, Babette Hollister of Queens.
      
Mrs. Pandit, the sister of India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was the virtual chief of one of Asia's most important political dynasties, which included Mr. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, who was Prime Minister for 13 years, and Mrs. Gandhi's son Rajiv, who succeeded his mother in 1984 and served until 1989.
Mrs. Dawidowicz, who had no children, is survived by her sister, Eleanor Sapak.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Sybil Phillips.
She portrayed a personable waitress trading wisecracks with Spencer Tracy in "Me and My Gal" (1932), a pert sister competing with Katharine Hepburn in "Little Women" (1933) and a psychiatrist's young wife slipping into insanity in "Private Worlds" (1935).
She is survived by her husband, Moses; two daughters, Deborah Statt Winegar of Manhattan and Jo-Ann Harrison of Kiryat Ono, Israel; a son, Victor of London; a sister, Miriam Waldman of Charlotte, N.C., and two grandsons.
      
"
        She is survived by her mother, Barbara Detro, a brother and a sister.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a sister, Jean Kullander of Savannah, Ga; two daughters, Catherine Hollenberg of Clarks Summit, Pa., and Laura Morse of Wellesley, Mass, and three grandchildren.
      
The company was founded by Ms. Wohlberg's sister, Helen, who represented the artist at the start of her career.
Ms. Wohlberg is survived by her husband, Jerome Eisenberg, and her sister, Helen Wohlberg Lambert, both of Lexington.
      
She is survived by another daughter, Christina Sumner Knapp of Manhattan; her stepmother, Janet McNeir Prentice of Belleair, Fla., and a sister, Barbara Kulesh of Pendleton, S.C.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Nancy Sayles of Abilene, Tex., and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a sister, Margery McCready of Pittsburgh, and a brother, John P. Lawson of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by a sister, Winn Revere Smith, of Cross River, L.I.
      
"
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Selby-Wright is survived by her mother, Mary Chamberlain, and a sister, Claire Wright, both of England.
Besides her brother, she is survived by her mother, Gussie Tuzzolo of Woodhaven; a sister, Carmela Reichert of Jamaica, Queens, and another brother, Anthony, of Mineola, L.I.
      
Surviving are her husband, Peter; her stepson, Peter A., of San Francisco, and her sister, Sheila Saunders, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Ralph; a sister, Joan Allard of Albany, and a son, Stephen, of Hastings.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Louise Bettman of Cincinnati and Helen Cohen of Houston; a son, Gilbert Bettman Jr. of Los Angeles; a sister, Roberta Robb Bratenahl of Pasadena, Calif.; and a granddaughter.
      
