Beatrice had an older sister, Muriel.
She was the sister of Chang Chia-ao, who became chairman of the Bank of China, and Carsun Chang, a philosopher who became a high official in the Nationalist Government of Chiang
        Chang Yu-Yi, vice president of the first women's bank in China from 1927 to 1937, died Saturday of cardiac arrest in her sleep at her home in Manhattan.
She was the sister of Chang Chia-ao, who became chairman of the Bank of China, and Carsun Chang, a philosopher who became a high official in the Nationalist Government of Chiang Kai-shek.
Mrs. Ryder is survived by 2 sons and a daughter from a first marriage, William and Richard Donnelly and Sister Ann Donnelly, all of Washington; 3 daughters by Mr. Ryder, Susan Skaggs of West Chester, Pa., and Mary Jane Belber and Molly Ryder, both of Washington; 16 grandchildren and 9 great-grandchildren.
      

       Sister Ann Christine Heintz, a Roman Catholic nun who founded a national student-written news service, died of cancer here Friday.
Sister Ann Christine Heintz, a Roman Catholic nun who founded a national student-written news service, died of cancer here Friday.
Sister Ann Christine, a member of the Sisters of Charity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, was a teacher of journalism at high schools in Iowa and Chicago.

       Sister Helen Madeline Ingraham, who in 1919 founded Emmanuel College, the first Roman Catholic college for women in New England, died Tuesday.
Sister Helen Madeline Ingraham, who in 1919 founded Emmanuel College, the first Roman Catholic college for women in New England, died Tuesday.
Sister Ingraham was dean at Emmanuel for 31 years.
; a sister, Florence Snoke of Ann Arbor, Mich.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Survivors include a sister, Amy Blocher, of Springfield, Va.; a brother, Louis, of Westfield, N.J.; two sons, Arnold, of Marlboro, N.J., and Paul, of Wayland, N.J., and three grandchildren.
Surviving are a brother, Robert MacKaye of Spring Valley, N.Y., and a sister, Christy Barnes of Hillsdale.
      
Surviving are her son, Gabriel, of Los Angeles; a sister, Shifrah Mendelsund, of Scarborough, N.Y., and a brother, Solomon Krystal of the Bronx.
      
She is survived by a sister, Jean Winchester, of New Canaan, Conn.
        A memorial will be held at 5 P.M. on Jan. 20 at the Elizabeth Morrow School.
      
She is survived by her sister, Cecilia Wilkenfeld, and her brother, Peter Goode, both of Manhattan.
      
; a sister, Rose Ficarra of Little Neck, Queens, and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Low is survived by a sister, Hortense Mayer Hirsch of Manhattan, who is 101; by two sons, Stuart, of Darien, Conn., and Robert, of Manhattan, a former New York City Councilman and Environmental Protection Administrator; a daughter, Doris Hirsch of Stamford, Conn.; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Anne Marie Roth of Weston; a sister, Illa Jones of Naples, Fla.; a grandson, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Ruth Reinhold of Tenafly, N.J.; a son, Albert, of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; a sister, Sylvia Robinson of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Marjorie Luyckx, and two brothers, Conrad and Peter Fried, all of Freeport, L.I., and a stepdaughter, Lisa, of Springs, L.I.
She is survived by a sister, Lisbeth Haar, of Stockholm, Sweden, and a brother, Robert Muser, of Geneva, Switzerland.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert K. Greenleaf; a son, Newcomb, of New York City; two daughters, Elizabeth, of New Haven, and Madeline Jaynes of New York City; a brother, William Hargrave of Lansdowne, Pa.; a sister, Nora Bailey of Short Hills, N.J., and seven grandchildren.
      
Fish, whose husband died in 1979, is survived by their daughter, Marilyn Munro of Westport; a sister, Margaret Tongue of East Orange, N.J.; three grandchldren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Johanna Garfield, and a son, Frank Rosengarten, both of Manhattan; a sister, Lillian Schuman, of Los Angeles, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, David Bodansky of Seattle; a sister, Zivia Wurtele of Santa Monica; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. North is survived by a son, David, of Washington and a daughter, Arielle North Olson of Harding Township, a sister, Edith Buchanan Baker of Zionsville, Ind., a brother, Howard A. Buchanan of Downers Grove, Ill., and six grandchildren.
      
Barbara Wertheim was born on Jan. 30, 1912, in New York, the daughter of Maurice Wertheim, an investment banker, art collector and philanthropist, and Alma Morgenthau Wertheim, a sister of Henry Morgenthau Jr., who was Secretary of the Treasury under President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
''
        Mrs. Tuchman is survived by her husband, who is an emeritus professor of clinical medicine at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine; a sister, Anne W. Werner of Manhattan; three daughters, Lucy T. Eisenberg of Los Angeles, Jessica Tuchman Mathews of Washington, and Alma Tuchman of Cos Cob and Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
Surviving are a daughter, Christine, of Oakland, and a sister, June McVeigh, of Sarasota, Fla.
      
; a sister, Odilie Esposito of Westbury, L.I., and a brother, Timothy of East Northport, L.I.
      
Mrs. Beebe, a native of Hellertown, Mass., is survived by a brother, Charles E. Hulik, of Hancock, N.H., and a sister, Mary Eliassen, of Palo Alto, Calif.
Surviving are a daughter, Mary Lefkowitz of Wellesley, Mass; two sons, Peter, of South Londonderry, Vt., and John, of Manhattan; a sister, Janice W. Byfield of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard; three sons, Stephen, of San Francisco, Robert, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and Philip, of Montgomery, Ala.; a sister, Catherine Everett of Stony Brook, L.I., and a granddaughter.
      
Surviving are her son, Frederic Armand-Delille, of Faverolles, France; a daughter, Angelique, of West Germany; a sister, Paola, of Parfondeval, and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Algernon; three sons, David, of Manhattan, Peter, of Syracuse, and Jonathan, of Chicago; a sister, Maxine Aaron of Pittsburgh; eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      

       Sister Mary Assisium Byrne, a former president of the Staten Island Mental Health Council who was long associated with the St. Vincent's Medical Center of Richmond, died of colon cancer Wednesday at the Sisters of Charity Home in Yonkers.
Sister Mary Assisium Byrne, a former president of the Staten Island Mental Health Council who was long associated with the St. Vincent's Medical Center of Richmond, died of colon cancer Wednesday at the Sisters of Charity Home in Yonkers.
Sister Mary Assisium was director of family and child-care services at New York Foundling Hospital from 1944 to 1955 and later directed social and psychiatric services at the St. Agatha Home in Nanuet, N.Y.
        She was born in Lancaster, Pa.
Sister Mary Assisium was an alumna of the College of Mount St. Vincent and received a master's from Catholic University.
; three brothers, Lew Trenner of Denver, Cecil Trenner of St. Davids, Pa. and Baron Trenner Jr. of East Stroudsburg; a sister, Mignon Cole, of East Stroudsburg and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a half sister, Belle Sidoroff, of Wilmington, Del., and a half brother, Al Steloff, of Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a sister, Blanche, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Willliam; her mother, Sheila Brodie of Manchester, Vt.; a son, Andrew Hultkrans of Manhattan, a brother, Franklin Driggs of Brooklyn, and a sister, Jean Pfister of San Jose, Calif.
      
She is survived by her brother, Irving, of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and a sister, Belle Henig of Chicago.
      
Surviving are a sister, Suzanne, of Talkeetna, Alaska, and a brother, Paul, of Canoga Park, Calif.
      
Surviving are three sons, Norman Marsh of Ipswich, Mass., Rufus King Marsh of Clinton, Conn., and John Langdon Marsh of Altamont, N.Y.; a sister, Eleanor Ames of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I.
''I loved her like a sister; my thoughts are with Gene and her family,'' said Dan Aykroyd, a fellow ''Saturday Night'' star.
She is survived by her stepfather, Benjamin; a sister, Amielle; four daughters, Heidi, Rachel, Rebecca and Kaethe Zemach-Bersin, and two granddaughters.
      
Mrs. Erickson's father was a minister and her sister was the first president of the United Church Women.
She is survived by her sister, Amy Ogden Welcher of Hartford.
      
She is survived by her husband, Allen Solomon; a daughter, Laurie Rudach of Kyoto, Japan; her mother, Dina Heiblum of Brooklyn, and a sister, Claire Kotchmar of Thiells, N.Y.
      

       Kazuko Takatsukasa, the elder sister of Emperor Akihito, died of heart failure at a Tokyo hospital early today, Imperial Palace officials said.
Kazuko Takatsukasa, the elder sister of Emperor Akihito, died of heart failure at a Tokyo hospital early today, Imperial Palace officials said.
Dr. Robinson is survived by her parents, Franklin and Gloria Robinson, and a sister, Dorothy, all of New Haven; a brother, Geoffrey of Leverett, Mass.
She is survived by a sister, Dorothy, and two nieces.
      
Mrs. Weston is survived by a sister, Geraldine Goutiere Acomb, of Avon, Conn., and two brothers, Vernon, of Patterson, Calif., and Peter, of Coral Springs, Fla.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Lois Lawrence of Manhattan; a brother, Dr. Benjamin Glasser of Highland Park, N.J.; a sister, Betty Bernstein of Miami Beach; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Edward; five daughters, Angela Weisl and Cassandra, both of Brooklyn, Elizabeth, of Manhattan, Lindsay, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Brooke, of Vienna; a sister, Elinor Hurwitz, and her mother, Gertrude Lander, both of Washington, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. John Randolph Backman of Encinitas; a daughter, Susan Patricia Niehaus of San Antonio; a sister, Henrietta Lieberman of North Bergen, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving is a sister, Katherine B. Crocker of Hinsdale, Mass.
      
She is survived by a son, Thomas, of Concord; a sister, Theodora Baron, of Miami, and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Lerrigo, who lived in Claremont, is survived by a sister, Florence Lerrigo, also of Claremont.
      
She is survived by her mother, Rhoda, of Bal Harbor, Fla.; two daughters, Aimee Garn of Manhattan and Liz Garn of West Bloomfield, Mich.; a sister, Muriel Lloyd of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      

       Sister Evelyn McLaughlin, principal of St. Barnabas High School in the Bronx for the last 18 years, died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday at a Sisters of Charity residence in Ardsley, N.Y., where she lived.
Sister Evelyn McLaughlin, principal of St. Barnabas High School in the Bronx for the last 18 years, died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday at a Sisters of Charity residence in Ardsley, N.Y., where she lived.
She is survived by a sister, Helen, of Manhattan.
      
Surviving are her husband, Bingham Morris; a sister, Winifred d'Olier Jr., of Villanova, Pa.; three children, Mrs. Onassis and Mrs. Ross, both of Manhattan, and James Lee Auchincloss of Washington; three stepchildren, Hugh D. Auchincloss Jr. of Manhattan and Newport, Nina Straight of Bethesda, Md., and Thomas Gore Auchincloss of Eagle Bridge, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren and stepgrandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by two sons, Peter Reznikoff of Manhattan, and Michael Reznikoff of Tokyo; a sister, Cynthia Gillispie of Chicago, and two grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, J. Marion Nentwig of Chattanooga, Tenn.; a sister, Grace Koster-Chase of Park Forest, Ill; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Dorothy Futrell, of St. Albans, Queens; a brother, Johnny L. Jones, of the Bronx, and five grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Dorothy Futrell, of St. Albans, Queens; a brother, Johnny L. Jones, of the Bronx, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children, James B. Brickell Jr. of Sykesville, Md., and Allegra Mertz Torrey of Rowayton, Conn.; a brother, Arthur Knapp Jr. of Larchmont, N.Y.; a sister, Marina Beach of Rye, and three grandchildren.
      

       Sister Agnes Reinkemeyer, the former dean of the College of Nursing at Seton Hall University in South Orange, N.J., was killed July 12 at a health-care mission she had founded in the village of Wema, in Kenya, East Africa.
Sister Agnes Reinkemeyer, the former dean of the College of Nursing at Seton Hall University in South Orange, N.J., was killed July 12 at a health-care mission she had founded in the village of Wema, in Kenya, East Africa.
Sister Agnes was fatally wounded by bandits as she was praying in the mission chapel, said a spokesman for the Franciscan Sisters of Mary in St. Louis.
Another sister was wounded by the gunmen, who had demanded money.
A 1966 graduate of the University of California at Berkeley with a Ph.D. in nursing education, Sister Agnes joined the Franciscan Sisters of Mary in 1942.

       Sister Thomas Francis Cushing, executive director of St. John's Hospital in Queens for 22 years before retiring in 1982, died yesterday at Maria Regina Convent in Brentwood, L.I., where she lived.
Sister Thomas Francis Cushing, executive director of St. John's Hospital in Queens for 22 years before retiring in 1982, died yesterday at Maria Regina Convent in Brentwood, L.I., where she lived.
She had a younger sister, Alexandra.
She is survived by her mother, Catharine Schenck Macandrew; a sister, Bonnie Rosenblatt of Baltimore, and a brother, Peter F. Macandrew of Garden City.
      
She is survived by a brother, Albert, of Philadelphia, and a sister, Dorothy Bordock of Brooklyn.
      
Mrs. Hanfield is survived by her husband, DeWitt C.; a stepdaughter, Drew, of Jackman, N.H.; two brothers, Vincent Russo of Brooklyn and Ralph Russo of Staten Island, and a sister, Anna DeMaio of Toms River, N.J.
      
She is survived by her husband Rabbi Arthur J. Zuckerman; a daughter, Carla Friedman of Toms River, N.J.; a son, Stephen Crohn of Manhattan; a sister, Betty Goren of Washington; a brother, David Goren of Philadelphia; three stepchildren, and seven grandchildren.
      
Miss Luce is survived by a sister, Jeanne Selvin of Brockton, Mass.
      
Dr. Pfeiffer is survived by a sister, Marcella Wood.
      
She is survived by her husband, Tom Ewell; two daughters, Carly and Courtney; her mother, Mary Shickert of Wilmington, N.C.; a sister, Denise Simpson of Durham, N.C., and a brother, Ken Simpson, of Washington.
      
Surviving are her husband; the two children of her first marriage, Mark West of Rochester and Francesca Watson of the Philippines ; her mother, Eleanor Ruetz of Portland, Ore., and a sister, Vera McKenna of Portland.
Miss Luce is survived by a sister, Jeanne Selvin of Brockton, Mass.
      
''
        She is survived by a son, Richard; a daughter, Barbara; a sister, Letty Osserman, and her brothers, Eugene and Andrew, all of Manhattan.
      
Her father divorced her mother when Miss Davis was 7 and her sister, Barbara, was 5, leaving her mother to rear the children alone.
Her first movie role was in ''Bad Sister,'' notable only for the fact that it also introduced Humphrey Bogart to films.
The other, wheelchair-bound, sister was played by Joan Crawford.
She is survived by her husband, Denis Nahum; a daughter, Angela, of Bogota; her parents, Maurice and Beatrice Lernoux of Hemet, Calif.; and a sister, Lisa, of San Diego.
      
Besides her son, she is survived by two daughters, Ella Ferguson of Melville, L.I., and Kathie F. Bushey of Radnor, Pa.; a sister, Katherine Mast of Naples; seven stepchildren, and six grandchildren.
      
Miss Strong is survived by a sister, Katherine Van R. Ulman of Lloyd Neck, L.I.
She is survived by two sons, Solomon and Seth, both of Manhattan, and a sister, Goldy Rosen, of Garden City, L.I.
She is survived by her husband, Erich G. Linker; two sons, Erich G. Linker Jr., of Garden City, L.I., and Stephen K. Linker of Flourtown; a sister, Phyllis Bortz, and two grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Elizabeth Fessenden of Sherborn, Mass.
Surviving is a sister, Dorothy Fogel, of Philadelphia.
      
She is survived by a sister, Dr. Dorothy Harrison of Washington.
      
Surviving are her husband, Alan; a daughter, Laurie, and a son, Gordon, both of New York, and a sister, Alice Glass of Plano, Tex.
      
Surviving are a sister, Catherine Nolan of Ridge, N.Y., and a brother, Joseph G. Connolly of Manhasset, L.I.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Joan Bull of New York City; a son, Peter, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a sister, Harriet Bein of Hanover, N.H., and five grandchildren.
      
Ms. Rothschild is survived by two sons, Thomas, of Newton, Mass., and V. Henry 3d, of Santa Fe, N.M.; a sister, Margaret Mackusick of Southport, Me.
She is survived by a sister, Gladys Singer, of the Bronx.
      
In a typical ''our crowd'' twist, one of her husband's partners wed her sister, and the firm later merged with Lehman Brothers, the family firm.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a sister, Frances L. Loeb of Manhattan; three sons, Lawrence, of Manhattan, Peter, of Philadelphia, and Paul, of Boston; nine grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
      
Surviving are her sister, Mary Harwood of Washington, Conn., and her daughter, Sister Catherine, of Evansville, Ind.
      
Surviving are her sister, Mary Harwood of Washington, Conn., and her daughter, Sister Catherine, of Evansville, Ind.
      
Captain Lenihan is survived by a sister, Priscilla Lawler of Woodbridge, Conn., and a brother, Edward Lenihan of Verona, N.J.
      
''
        Mrs. Sanchez, a widow, is survived by four brothers: Jose J. Collon of Hartford; Benigno Collon, Arcardio Collon, and Pedro Collon, all of Comerio, and a sister, Luz Consuelo Fuentes, of Comerio.
      
She is survived by a sister, Janice Redfield Roach of Omaha.
      
; a sister, Frances Pond of Old Lyme, Conn.; 14 grandchildren, and 8 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Anne-Marie Levine of Manhattan; a sister, Dr. Francine Schwarzkopf, also of Manhattan, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband, James L., a judge on the United States Court of International Trade; two daughters, Karen Allen and Kris, both of Manhattan; a son from a former marriage, Norman A. Jenkins, also of Manhattan; a sister, Novella Turner of Portland, Me.

       Sister Magdeleine de Jesus, author and founder of an order of Roman Catholic nuns, died Monday at the order's headquarters in Rome.
Sister Magdeleine de Jesus, author and founder of an order of Roman Catholic nuns, died Monday at the order's headquarters in Rome.
; a sister, Tzili Mandeli of Haifa, Israel, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Ronnie and Wendy, both of Middletown and Manhattan, and Diane Reade Chitaphana of Los Angeles; three brothers, Victor, Irving and Steven Sager, all of Manhattan; a sister, Edna Miller, of Manhattan, and a grandchild.
      
Surviving are a son, Jeffrey, of Costa Mesa, Calif.; a sister, Shirley Rapp, of Chicago, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Ruth Hahn of Denver, Colo., and a nephew, John McCoy of Shanghai.
      
She is survived by her husband, Thomas; a son, John, of Brookfield, Wis.; a brother, Thomas Cronyn of Plandome; a sister, Nancy C. Knox of Darien, Conn., and one grandson.
      
She is survived by her mother, Clara Kaplan of Hudson, Fla.; three daughters, Wendy Curts of Hillsdale, N.J., Corrine Gould of New Rochelle, and Victoria Kaiser of Huntington, N.Y.; a brother, Louis Kaplan of Holmes Beach, Fla.; a sister, Lillian Albrecht of Rye, N.Y., and eight grandchildren.
