She graduated from Ohio State University in 1964, and received a master's degree in  social work at Hunter College in 1993.
She was a social worker with the Spence-Chapin Services to Families and Children on a volunteer basis until shortly before her death.
In addition to being active in the Boston social registry from the 1930's to the 50's, she and her four sisters all claimed national tennis titles at varying points of their lives.
Besides performing charitable duties on a revolving list of social committees, Danzig worked for NBC television as a sports editor from 1956 to '57, and in 1965 became an advertising consultant for World Tennis magazine.
Throughout her life she was a social figure on both coasts and in England.
She was particularly visible at social events that related to England, such as a celebratory party for Queen Elizabeth's birthday, where she joined other social figures like Steven and Kimberly Rockefeller and Jean MacArthur.
She was particularly visible at social events that related to England, such as a celebratory party for Queen Elizabeth's birthday, where she joined other social figures like Steven and Kimberly Rockefeller and Jean MacArthur.
She also supervised the operations of the Health Services and Mental Health  Administration, the Social Security Administration, the Office of Education, the Social and Rehabilitation Service, the Office of Child Development and the Food  and Drug Administration.
She also supervised the operations of the Health Services and Mental Health  Administration, the Social Security Administration, the Office of Education, the Social and Rehabilitation Service, the Office of Child Development and the Food  and Drug Administration.

        Marie-Helene de Rothschild, one of Europe's most imaginative hostesses, whose activities were a major part of the Paris social season for many years, died on  Friday at her home in Ferrieres, 20 miles northeast of Paris.
The Baroness, who enjoyed creating fantasies for her social occasions, once  greeted 150 guests at a dinner (Diner de Tetes Surrealistes, whose invitations had to be read in a mirror) dressed as a stag at the kill, with a mask of towering antlers and pear-shaped diamond "tears" on her face.

        Professor Jean Margaret Maxwell, who helped establish the New York School of  Social Work at New York University in the 1950's and the San Diego State University School of Social Work in the 1960's, died on Feb. 22 at the Casa de Manana retirement community in San Diego.

        Professor Jean Margaret Maxwell, who helped establish the New York School of  Social Work at New York University in the 1950's and the San Diego State University School of Social Work in the 1960's, died on Feb. 22 at the Casa de Manana retirement community in San Diego.
to organize the social work school.
Partly because of her experience at N.Y.U., San Diego State recruited her in 1963 to help establish its School of Social Work.
At the time, the California State University system was also creating social work schools at its Sacramento, San Francisco, Fresno and San Jose campuses.
An expert on aging, settlement houses and social work education, she worked from 1959 to 1961 with the Committee on Aging of the National Social Welfare Assembly, a planning and coordinating body for social welfare agencies.
An expert on aging, settlement houses and social work education, she worked from 1959 to 1961 with the Committee on Aging of the National Social Welfare Assembly, a planning and coordinating body for social welfare agencies.
An expert on aging, settlement houses and social work education, she worked from 1959 to 1961 with the Committee on Aging of the National Social Welfare Assembly, a planning and coordinating body for social welfare agencies.
She was  also a founder of the Council of Social Work Education, a successor to the American Association of Schools of Social Work.
She was  also a founder of the Council of Social Work Education, a successor to the American Association of Schools of Social Work.
The council served as the first  liaison between the schools and social service agencies in the field.
Ms. Maxwell was born in Minneapolis and graduated from the University of Minnesota, where she also did graduate work at the School of Social Work.
She received a master's degree in administration from the Case Western Reserve School of Social Work in 1941.
      
In 1958, recognizing that college-educated women restricted by child rearing  needed jobs with flexible work schedules, she founded Part Time Research Associates, a social science research corporation.
This awareness led to her founding the Women's Talent Corps, which prepared numerous women for careers in such fields as social work, mental health services, occupational therapy and paralegal work.

        Razia Bhatti, a Pakistani editor who championed social causes and campaigned  against Government corruption, died on Tuesday at her home in Karachi.
In the political turmoil of Pakistan and the violent chaos of Karachi, Mrs.  Bhatti and her magazine represented a consistent voice for democracy, social improvement and the freedom to publish unpopular views.

        Phyllis Smith Vineyard, a corporate communications and customer service consultant who was also involved in health, family planning and social welfare,  died of cancer on March 16 at her home in Blue Point, L.I.

        Anne McDonnell Ford Johnson, who served on the White House Fine Arts Committee during the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations, helped restore Blair House in Washington and played an active role in social and charitable events in New York, died Friday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
She met Mr. Ford while returning from a European trip in 1936, and they were married in 1940 in what was a major event of the Southampton social season.
She was, she said, "too old for a paper route, too young for Social Security and too tired for an affair.
But although her own sister once described her as an unloved child, her childhood served her well, providing the swirling fox-hunting background and social intrigue she drew on for more than a dozen novels and five plays.
It was a measure of the degree of social rejection of people with AIDS that her own three sisters stopped talking to her after she made her announcement.

        Martha Keehn, a social worker in India and Africa, died on April 5 at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
From 1952 to 1961, Mrs. Keehn directed social welfare projects for the Indian Cooperative Union, helping organize handicraft and other small industries in the villages of India.
She studied social work at Baruch College and graduated from the New School for Social Research.
She studied social work at Baruch College and graduated from the New School for Social Research.

        Bernice Hanft Shepard, a professional social worker who founded a private-care agency for the home-bound and elderly in Manhattan, died on Monday  at her home on the Upper East Side.
At age 58, she received a master's degree in social work from Hunter College and worked in the field of alcohol abuse.
In 1934,  she took a social work job with the Nassau County Emergency Relief Bureau, and four years later she joined what was then the new Nassau County Department of Social Services, from which she retired in 1962.
In 1934,  she took a social work job with the Nassau County Emergency Relief Bureau, and four years later she joined what was then the new Nassau County Department of Social Services, from which she retired in 1962.
Mrs. Badillo worked for the Carey and Cuomo administrations as the deputy director of the Division for Women from 1978 until 1986, when she took over the  New York City office of the State Department of Social Services.
"
        Even before her career in state government, Mrs. Badillo was active on social issues.
Ms. Meredith-Jones received a master's degree from Columbia University and taught at Teachers College of Columbia University and the New School for Social  Research.
Mrs. Butler and her husband, Albert Butler, wrote "The Encyclopedia of Social Dance.
" She was also the founder and president of the Institute for Social Dance Studies in New York, dedicated to the preservation and documentation of the history of American social dancing.
" She was also the founder and president of the Institute for Social Dance Studies in New York, dedicated to the preservation and documentation of the history of American social dancing.
In 1970, Mrs. Butler created the film, print and memorabilia archive of American social ballroom dancing at the dance division of the Lincoln Center Library for the Performing Arts.
"
        Finding teaching more compatible, she received a master of arts degree at Columbia University and a Ph.D. in psychology, education and social work at the  University of Pennsylvania in 1943.
Mrs. Auchincloss was well known in New York cultural and social circles as an active and generous supporter of the arts with a keen interest in architecture and design.
In an area where the first families of Virginia can be downright condescending to those who trace their ancestry to only the second wave of settlers, Mrs. Randolph achieved social prominence and fox-hunting distinction despite the fact that she was an actual Yankee.
It was a tribute to her standing, and her reputation for social observation,  that in her later years newcomers tended to come to her.
Her social life involved a small circle of old friends,  including members of the Count Basie and Duke Ellington orchestras, and other singers, including over the years Carmen McRae, Sarah Vaughan and Peggy Lee.
Growing up in a neighborhood of immigrants and the poor awakened a commitment to social issues that guided her life as a lawyer.

        Sarah Powell Huntington, who spent her life in social service, dealing with mental health issues and, particularly, the fate of women released from prison,  died on June 23 at her home in St. James, L.I.
She was also a member of several civic and social organizations in Richmond and Washington.
She earned a master's degree at  the School of Social Work of Columbia University.
For her charitable, cultural and social work for the Roman Catholic Church, she received three papal honors, including the Lady Grand Cross in the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulcher of Jerusalem.
She walked through central India with the disciples of Vinoba Bhave, a spiritual successor of Mohandas K. Gandhi who traveled on foot from village to village preaching asceticism and social reform.

        Kathleen Carlin, a social service executive who devoted her professional life to the proposition that men can learn to get along quite well without beating up their wives and girlfriends, died on Sept. 20 at a hospice near her home in Atlanta.
Ms. Carlin, a native of Maywood, Neb., who graduated from the University of Nebraska and received a master's in social work there, married right after college and began raising a family, first in Atlanta and later in Houston.
In addition to running programs of intensive behavior modification for men with a history of abusing women and training instructors to operate similar programs across the country, the organization works to change the social norms of male supremacy and control that Ms. Carlin came to see as the underlying causes of abuse.
Some of her riches she channeled into social work, and she once responded to a reporter's question about what she had done for Mexico: ''Ask the priests in the downtown churches who is the one that helps them.
Mrs. Mantell received a bachelor's degree from Barnard College and a master's degree in social work from Columbia University.

        Laura Epstein, an educator in social work who was retired from the University of Chicago faculty, died on Sept. 18 at her home in Chicago.
Professor Epstein retired in 1985 after 18 years as an instructor and professor in the university's School of Social Service Administration.
Her earlier work included serving as director of social work education and as casework supervisor in agencies in Chicago.
Much of her research involved the development of a short-term form of social work practice called the Task Centered Model.
Later she studied aspects of the history of clinical social work in the 20th century.
Born in Chicago, she received a bachelor's degree in psychology in 1934 from the University of Chicago and a master's degree in 1936 from its School of Social Service Administration.
While studying on a scholarship at the old School of Social Work in New York in 1925, she met Mr. Trocme, a  Protestant from northern France who was studying at the Union Theological Seminary.
Not until two years after Mrs. Farkas arrived did she make her first splash in the social life of Luxembourg, with a charity gala that featured the singer Sacha Distel and a United States Army orchestra.

        Diana Trilling, an uncompromising cultural and social critic and a member of the circle of writers, thinkers and polemicists of the 1930's, 40's and 50's known as the New York intellectuals, died on Wednesday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital.
Despite the contrast between their social backgrounds, author and subject managed to share emotions and to bridge the gulf of geography and social background, said Ms. Shostak's husband, Dr. Melvin Konner, who is the Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Anthropology and an associate professor of psychiatry and neurology at Emory University.
Despite the contrast between their social backgrounds, author and subject managed to share emotions and to bridge the gulf of geography and social background, said Ms. Shostak's husband, Dr. Melvin Konner, who is the Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Anthropology and an associate professor of psychiatry and neurology at Emory University.

        Diane Dickerson Montgomery, a former psychiatric social worker and bank officer who was involved in civil rights causes since childhood, died on Sunday at her home in Chicago.
A graduate of the Francis Parker School in Chicago and Mills College in Oakland, Calif., she earned a master's degree in social work at the University of Chicago and went to work for several public and private agencies.
Along the way, Miss Kitchell interviewed prominent women like Eleanor Roosevelt, discussed family and social issues and chatted about her own active life.
Her exposure to the rise of Nazism while in Berlin on a fellowship in the late 1930's intensified her desire to make ''her life count in helping to correct social injustice,'' said a 1992 article in American Psychologist.
She graduated from Bryn Mawr College with a major in social sciences, worked in refugee rehabilitation and reconstruction projects in France after World War I and returned to Bryn Mawr to earn a master's degree in labor and industrial economics.
Mrs. Dulles, who used her maiden surname, entered Government service in 1936 as director of financial research for the Social Security Board.
Ms. Morales advised Ms. Messinger on social affairs like domestic violence, homelessness and women's issues.
She graduated from City College and received a master's degree from the Hunter College School of Social Work and a master's in urban affairs from Yale University and Occidental College.
Over the years, she worked for the Community Service Society, the State Department of Social Services, the city's Human Resources Administration and the Ryan Community Health Center in Manhattan.
Working out of the Borough President's office, she devised and coordinated various social projects like Iris House, a center for women with AIDS.
As a faculty member at Teachers College for 26 years, Dr. Goldberg ''was very rigorous and galvanized our sense of social consciousness,'' said Dr. Susan Sacks, a former student of Dr. Goldberg's who is on the faculty at Barnard College.
And her home, which had been a literary and political social center in the 1930's, was hopping once again.
For all their social and establishment credentials, both had left-wing views.
In his years as a founding editor of Partisan Review in the 1930's, as the founder of Politics in the 1940's and later as a social critic for The New Yorker, Mr. Macdonald acknowledged that his wife had prodded him ever leftward.
While there are many larger philanthropic foundations, few have become so entwined in the fabric of the city's life, because of Mrs. Astor's role as a social arbiter and her determination to focus her efforts on New York.
But she did not do it to climb social ladders.

        Patricia Johnson Deely, a retired New York social worker and psychotherapist who helped build one of the city's agencies for drug addicts and others needing social services, died on Dec. 15 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.

        Patricia Johnson Deely, a retired New York social worker and psychotherapist who helped build one of the city's agencies for drug addicts and others needing social services, died on Dec. 15 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
Mrs. Deely, a native of Manhattan, graduated from Adelphi University and received a master's degree from the Hunter College School of Social Work.
At her death she was chairwoman of the Irwin-Sweeney-Miller Foundation of Columbus, a major regional donor to the arts, Christian education, social services, child welfare and community development.
She graduated from the New School for  Social Research in 1984.
She also established the Mrs. Robert M. Benjamin Educational Fund to  provide summer fellowships in gerontological social work.
She joined teams of pediatricians and social workers who collected uprooted children and sent them to the United States.
"
        The daughter of Albert and Rose Nierenberg of New York, she first became involved in social causes while an undergraduate at Smith College.

        Elizabeth McCall Cain, a figure in Manhattan's social world who was active in arranging benefits for educational and cultural institutions, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital.
"
        But the most telling tributes came from the generations of American and other tourists who followed her steps -- page by dogeared page -- through the city, marveling at each architectural feature that triggered her soaring ruminations on everything from ancient history and early Roman poetry to modern social conditions.
She was viewed as independent-minded with a youthful social conscience and regarded herself for a time as "a Trotskyite sympathizer.
