She had lived in Bryn Mawr since the late 1940's and was active in many civic and social organizations.

        Rebecca Pollard Van Lennep Guggenheim Logan, a philanthropist and patron of the arts who was for a generation one of the best-known social hostesses in Washington, died on Friday at her home in Washington.
From the 1940's to the 1970's Firenze House was the setting for social functions attended by Presidents, Government officials, diplomats and business executives.
When you are born Greek, you are always in a state of alert about social things.
Before that she was director of grants at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan.
Dr. Grunwald worked as a file clerk but was able to obtain a master's degree at the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work with the help of her employer.
2d Career at Amnesty Group
        She spent many years helping troubled youths through the Brooklyn Bureau of Social Service and other social-work agencies in the city.
Mrs. Onassis, who had enjoyed robust good health nearly all her life, began being treated for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in early January and had been undergoing chemotherapy and other treatments in recent months while continuing her work as a book editor and her social, family and other personal routines.
But a year later, after Mr. Kennedy had won a seat in the United States Senate and was already being discussed as a Presidential possibility, they were married at Newport, R.I., in the social event of 1953, a union of powerful and wealthy Roman Catholic families whose scions were handsome, charming, trendy and smart.
John H. Davis, a cousin who wrote "The Bouviers," a family history, in 1993, described her as a young woman who outwardly seemed to conform to social norms.
The social skills she acquired at East Hampton and Farmington were much in evidence.
"
        Letitia Baldridge, who was Mrs. Kennedy's chief of staff and social secretary in the White House, remembered her sense of humor.
She was photographed wearing a miniskirt; she was escorted to lunch and dinner and various social gatherings by prominent bachelors, including Frank Sinatra, Marlon Brando and Mike Nichols; she toured the Seville Fair on horseback in 1966 and, in a crimson jacket and a rakish broad-brimmed black hat, tossed down a glass of sherry.
It helped, she said, that Nancy Tuckerman, who had been her social secretary at the White House, already had a job there; the two worked closely for the next 15 years.
She avoided the industry's active social scene, probably because she had so little need to expand her network of contacts.
A lifelong resident of West 143d Street, Mrs. Smith was a social worker and counselor for many years at Harlem Hospital, the Children's Aid Society and, most recently, the Visiting Nurse Service.
Making a Difference
        Mrs. Smith founded her own agency, the Family Systems for Living Center, to provide individual counseling, classes, referrals and other social services.
Mrs. Smith graduated from Fordham University College at Lincoln Center and Fordham's Graduate School of Social Service.
Mayor Frank Jordan of San Francisco, in a tribute, said that Mrs. Shorenstein and her husband had contributed much to the city's cultural, social and civic life and had "consistently helped make this city a better place for all of us.
Another, "Social Security Policies in Industrial Countries: An International Perspective" (Cambridge University Press, 1989) remains in print.
She is survived by her sons, Robert J., of Evanston, Ill., an economics professor at Northwestern University, and David M., of Manhattan, a professor of economics at the New School for Social Research.

        Dr. Florence Shishko Schwartz, a retired professor of social work at the Hunter College School of Social Work, died on Wednesday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut.

        Dr. Florence Shishko Schwartz, a retired professor of social work at the Hunter College School of Social Work, died on Wednesday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut.
She received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College and master's and doctoral degrees from the Columbia School of Social Work.
During World War II, she was a Red Cross social worker at Army hospitals in Virginia and Massachusetts.
Mrs. Christy also served on the boards of the Visiting Nurse Association of Brooklyn and the Brooklyn Bureau of Social Service, and was secretary of the National United Service Organization from 1957 to 1968.
She studied voice at the American Conservatory of Music in Chicago and pipe organ at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. She briefly worked as a social worker in Evanston and spent seven years as a probation officer in Chicago.
Nelson A. Rockefeller and Malcolm Wilson as a member of the New York State Board of Social Welfare.
Orthopsychiatry offers treatment through a collaborative approach involving such fields as psychiatry, psychology, psychiatric social work and other sciences.
As a result, she said, feelings of anger are repressed and affect the widow's social relationships.
Over the years, she taught at City College, New York University, the Hunter College School of Social Work and elsewhere.
She started studying philosophy at the New School for Social Research but switched to sociology at Columbia University, where she earned her Ph.D. under the supervision of Robert K. Merton.

        Shirley M. Ehrenkranz, for nearly two decades the dean of New York University's School of Social Work, died yesterday at her home in South Orange, N.J. She was 73.
In her more than 17 years as dean, the school became one of the largest schools of social work in the nation, enrolling more than 1,000 students in undergraduate and graduate programs.
Under her leadership, the school also pioneered the holistic approach to clinical social work and became the first institution in the New York metropolitan area to offer a doctorate in clinical social work.
Under her leadership, the school also pioneered the holistic approach to clinical social work and became the first institution in the New York metropolitan area to offer a doctorate in clinical social work.
In recognition of her contributions, New York University had announced that the school would be renamed the Shirley M. Ehrenkranz School of Social Work.
Was a Former Caseworker
        Dr. Ehrenkranz received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College, master's degrees in English from Temple University, in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr College and in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, and a doctorate in social welfare from Columbia University.
Was a Former Caseworker
        Dr. Ehrenkranz received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College, master's degrees in English from Temple University, in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr College and in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, and a doctorate in social welfare from Columbia University.
Was a Former Caseworker
        Dr. Ehrenkranz received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College, master's degrees in English from Temple University, in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr College and in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, and a doctorate in social welfare from Columbia University.
Was a Former Caseworker
        Dr. Ehrenkranz received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College, master's degrees in English from Temple University, in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr College and in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, and a doctorate in social welfare from Columbia University.
Before joining New York University, she served as a field instructor at the Rutgers University Graduate School of Social Work and a research assistant at the Columbia University School of Social Work.
Before joining New York University, she served as a field instructor at the Rutgers University Graduate School of Social Work and a research assistant at the Columbia University School of Social Work.
Correction:  August 27, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Shirley M. Ehrenkranz, dean of New York University's School of Social Work, omitted a survivor.
Its donors include such corporate giants as Johnson & Johnson and the AT&T Corporation, and the Newark Boys Chorus, the New Jersey Symphony, AIDS education, neighborhood initiatives, civic improvements and various social services have been among the beneficiaries.
Even before she became Mayor, Mrs. Rincon de Gautier, widely known as Dona Fela, worked on behalf of social causes, including the campaign to win Puerto Rican women the right to vote, which succeeded in 1932.
After earning a bachelor's degree with honors in English at Grinnell College in Grinnell, Iowa, in 1941 she studied at Columbia University and the New School for Social Research.

        Helene Thurman Martin Heinemann, a retired geriatric social worker, died on Thursday at the Crosslands retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa., near Philadelphia.
Mrs. Heinemann, a native of Harrisburg, Pa., graduated from Wellesley College and the New York School of Social Work.

        Ruth Fizdale, who helped to make modern social work a profession, died on Sunday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in the Bronx.
It also paid reasonable salaries, thus bolstering the professional image of its social workers.
Miss Fizdale chronicled the agency's first decade and a half in "Social Agency Structures and Accountability" (Burdick, 1974).
The work became a casebook for graduate schools, social agencies and private practitioners as it set standards for social-work services on a fee basis for middle- and upper-income clients.
A month ago, the Columbia University School of Social Work established a Helen Rehr and Ruth Fizdale Professorship of Health and Mental Health.
New York State recognized her as Social Worker of the Year in 1970, and a few years ago, the National Association of Social Work set up its Ruth Fizdale Fund in Social Welfare Studies in her honor.
New York State recognized her as Social Worker of the Year in 1970, and a few years ago, the National Association of Social Work set up its Ruth Fizdale Fund in Social Welfare Studies in her honor.
New York State recognized her as Social Worker of the Year in 1970, and a few years ago, the National Association of Social Work set up its Ruth Fizdale Fund in Social Welfare Studies in her honor.
She was also an adjunct professor at the Hunter School of Social Work.
She received a master's at the Smith College School of Social Work and an advanced-study certificate from the University of Pennsylvania.
She was a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers and its Competence Certification Board.
Dr. Gardner was an associate research professor at the Heller Graduate School of Advanced Studies and Social Welfare at Brandeis; she was acting director of the school two years ago.
She began her lifelong study of the emerging field of social group work when she worked at a Minneapolis settlement house in the mid-1920's.
Her ground-breaking book, "Essentials of Social Group Work Skill" (University of Pennsylvania, 1973), was used to train students in social work for many years.
Her ground-breaking book, "Essentials of Social Group Work Skill" (University of Pennsylvania, 1973), was used to train students in social work for many years.
Her early career was in social services, with a focus on people with disabilities.
