Mrs. Phillips worked with a number of social and philanthropic organizations around the world as the wife of a career American diplomat, Christopher H. Phillips.
She was elected president of the cultural, philanthropic and social organization in 1971 while her husband was the Deputy Permanent United States Representative, from 1969 to 1973.
In the New Deal era, Mr. Clague helped organize the Social Security Administration and later served as Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Her husband, Louis Horwitz, a social worker, was working with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Agency in the resettlement of refugees.
Later, she was a teacher at the New School for Social Research.

        Jeanne-Marie Ruth-Rolland, an official of the Central African Republic who served as its Minister of Social Affairs in 1992 and 1993 after being imprisoned for five years for political reasons, died on June 4 in a hospital in Paris.
She was trained as a teacher and became the director of social services in the republic's army, an adviser to the Prime Minister on women's issues and a campaigner on behalf of homeless children in Bangui, the republic's capital.
She cared nothing for the social status or the public attention that it could bring.
After the company disbanded in the early 1930's, she founded the Apprentice Theater of the New School for Social Research.
Human intercourse often demands that we soften the edge of perception, or withdraw at the very instant of personal truth for fear of hurting, or of being inappropriately present, which is to say naked, in a social situation.
She moved to the United States in 1954 and received a master's degree in psychology at the New School for Social Research.
It was a story whose uplifting message reverberated through the political atmosphere last year when Newt Gingrich, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, cited the movie as evidence that private philanthropic efforts could make up for cuts in Government spending on social benefits.
At one time, she also served on the boards of the National Urban League, the New York Urban League, WAIF/International Social Service, the Girl Scouts of Greater New York and the Cooperative Education Association.
"
        A native of Bridgeport, Conn., she studied at the Hartford Art School, the New School for Social Research and the University of California at Los Angeles.

        Joyce Steins, a supporter of the arts and social causes who owned and operated several trendy Manhattan restaurants before retiring three years ago, died on Sunday in Riverhead Hospital on Long Island.
While she declined to move to Washington, she was a frequent hostess on the social scene, especially after Kennedy became President.
The Social Science Institute, formed in 1953 to print political and economic pamphlets written by Mr.

        Dorothy Dickson, an American-born musical comedy performer who captivated British audiences in the 1920's and 30's and became a member of the country's theatrical and social elite, died on Monday at her home in London.
She was a friend of most of the scientists whose institutions she helped, and although she was rarely seen at the glittering social events favored by her peers, she had an active social life centered on the arts and science community.
She was a friend of most of the scientists whose institutions she helped, and although she was rarely seen at the glittering social events favored by her peers, she had an active social life centered on the arts and science community.
Being of a rather radical bent on social issues, she decided that she could achieve more on the outside.

        Kate Witte Ericson, an artist who collaborated with her husband, Mel Ziegler, on indoor and outdoor installation works noted for their beauty, complexity and  social awareness, died on Sunday at her home in Milanville, Pa. She was 39 and also had a home in Manhattan.
The two met as teen-agers at the University Settlement House, which provided social services for poor Lower East Side residents.
A small blond woman whose delicate features were once likened to porcelain,  Mrs. Haggard, whose decidedly fragile appearance belied a will of steel, was also a central figure in the literary social whirl.
A small blond woman whose delicate features were once likened to porcelain,  Mrs. Haggard was also a central figure in the literary social whirl.
"I used mud colors -- olive, nutmeg, clove, persimmon, faded red -- the colors of real life, to get the kind of oppressive quality in Dublin social life.
But despite her undisputed place at the center of Washington's social whirl for nearly 50 years, she shunned what she called the "H" word.
She fled Italy and arrived in the United States in 1940, initially teaching  at the New School for Social Research and Hunter College.
She  was a past trustee of the Dwight-Englewood School in Englewood, the Social Service Federation of Englewood and other community organizations.

        Suzanne Storrs Pincus, a community volunteer active in social services and the arts, died on Wednesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Mrs. Hayter had her first solo show in 1942 at the New School for Social Research and the first of several joint exhibitions with her husband at the Sidney Janis Gallery in 1949.
At her death, she was the chapter's director of social policy.
At her death, she was the chapter's director of social policy.
In 1935-36, she directed the social music program at the Henry Street Settlement in New York City.
She also worked for a number of cultural and social welfare groups, including Operation Hope, the New York Philharmonic Society and the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies of New York.
Together with Mr. Bingham, who died in 1988, Mrs. Bingham was a generous supporter of the arts and of educational and social programs.
She spent the last 25 years leading people young and old in the fight against age discrimination and other forms of what she saw as social injustice and stereotypical thinking and just two weeks ago she had joined striking transit workers on their picket line.
Its credo described it simply as an advocate for "fundamental social change that would eliminate injustice, discrimination and oppression in our present society.
Miss Kuhn was a champion of social causes long before the Gray Panthers.
And in a succession of jobs as a manager of social programs for the Young Women's Christian Association in Cleveland, Philadelphia and Boston and in similar work with the Presbyterian Church in New York, Miss Kuhn took what were then unconventional positions on issues like peace and social justice.
And in a succession of jobs as a manager of social programs for the Young Women's Christian Association in Cleveland, Philadelphia and Boston and in similar work with the Presbyterian Church in New York, Miss Kuhn took what were then unconventional positions on issues like peace and social justice.

        Marion Lounsbury Foster, who was for many years a social services administrator with the Disaster Staff of the American Red Cross, specializing in public and private emergencies, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Bridgeport, Conn.
        She was 97 and a longtime resident of New York City.
She was born in New York City and graduated from the Brearley School, Columbia University and the New York School of Social Work.
It chronicled the demographic, social, cultural, economic and agricultural changes transforming the Northeast.
Ms. Lopez also worked with the New Jersey Department of Human Services, as an assistant administrator of Marlboro Psychiatric Hospital in Marlboro, N.J., and chief executive of Ancora Psychiatric Hospital in Hammonton, N.J.
        She held undergraduate and master's degrees in social work from Rutgers University.
Ms. Lopez also worked with the New Jersey Department of Human Services, as an assistant administrator of Marlboro Psychiatric Hospital in Marlboro, N.J., and chief executive of Ancora Psychiatric Hospital in Hammonton, N.J.
        She held undergraduate and master's degrees in social work from Rutgers University.
