Mrs. Cahn spent most of her career pursuing legal and social causes in Washington, where the Cahns lived for two decades until they moved to Florida in 1984.
A Family of Activists
        Mrs. Cahn was born into a family of social activists.
)
        In 1971 the Cahns co-founded the Antioch School of Law, which placed emphasis on serving the poor and trained prospective lawyers in social activism.
Ms. Moore had served as secretary for racial and social justice with the Board for Homeland Ministries of the United Church of Christ since 1988.
She worked on programs to help the clergy and laity respond to social issues and initiated programs to help immigrant women and the homeless.
In 1966 Dr. Baumgartner was named visiting professor of social medicine at the Harvard Medical School, a post she held until she retired in 1972.
's Founder's Society and supported museums and social welfare organizations in New York.
"
        Recalling her support for the arts and her interest in social justice, Mr. Papp said that despite her wealth, "there was nothing in her that suggested anyone was different from anyone else.

        Katie Louchheim, a former State Department official and a former vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee who was a prominent figure in the social life of Washington for four decades, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
She received a master's degree from the New York School of Social Work and a doctorate from Columbia, under whose auspices she did research among North Dakota's Ojibwa Indians.
in 1979, Mrs. Brown returned to West Virginia, where she was an administrative law judge for the Federal Department of Labor in Charleston and later for the Social Security Administration there.

        Susan Karelitz Ginsberg, a lawyer who devoted her career to working with social agencies dealing with the problems of women and children, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
She was a 1954 graduate of Yale Law School and had served with the Commission on Law and Social Action of the American Jewish Congress.

        Mabel Pickford Jenkins, a retired psychiatric social worker in New York City, died on Thursday at the University Village Retirement Center in Tulsa, Okla. She was 98 years old and had lived in Tulsa since 1984.
In 1924 Mrs. Jenkins became the first director of the social service department of St. Phillip's Episcopal Church in Harlem.
She received a master's degree from the New York School of Social Work.
Study of Islanders
        The result of her 18-month inquiry was "The People of Alor," a social and psychological study published in 1944 that won acclaim for its thoroughness and lucidity.
She also wrote "Social Forces in Southeast Asia," which appeared in 1949, and her writings were widely published in scholarly journals.
In "The Cross of Lassitude: Portraits of Five Delinquents" (1967), she used her experiences as a social worker and officer in women's prisons to track five teen-age girls through the penal system.

        Sarah Jane Kinoy, a teacher and social worker who was an early leader in the education of children with cerebral palsy, died on Wednesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan.
Mrs. Kinoy, a graduate of Teachers College, was a social worker with the American Red Cross during World War I and later taught at the Brooklyn Ethical Culture School and at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
Mrs. Heller joined the Yonkers school system in 1974 as a social studies teacher, worked with disadvantaged youngsters and in 1981 was named coordinator of information services.
The museumdevoted a number of shows to the work of women, and under Mrs. Horch's direction, presented in 1939 the first exhibition by the Abstract American Artists, whose work ran against the social realist trend of the time.
Dr. Lundberg, a 1925 graduate of Vassar College, was an editor at several magazines, including Cosmopolitan, and an assistant to the president of an educational consulting firm before earning a Ph.D. in 1957 from the New School for Social Research.
Mrs. Cavert received a bachelor's degree in 1915 at Ohio Weselyan University and a master's at Columbia University, She taught social studies at Ohio Wesleyan, at Women's Union College in Tokyo, Lawrence University in Appleton, Wis., and Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville.
Mrs. Harris had been associated with the heirs of Presidents John Adams and John Quincy Adams since the early 1920's, when she became social secretary to Brooks Adams, a historian and a fourth-generation family member who died in 1927.
Ms. Jernigan was known for witty, vivid collagist work that was as much social commentary as art.
Miss Waldron was born in New Canaan, Conn. She graduated from the University of Connecticut and received a master's degree in social work from Catholic University.
She received a master's degree from the Columbia School of Social Work in 1963.
She graduated from Smith College in 1944 and earned a Ph.D. from the New School for Social Research in 1970.
Under the Local 237 retiree program, which Mrs. Feinstein founded in 1980, more than 5,000 members participate in classes, community projects and political activities as well as the customary social activities, trips and health-care seminars offered by labor unions.
Mrs. Falk joined the association in 1968 and was assistant director in charge of social services at its Cottage School in Pleasantville, N.Y., until 1989, when she took over the training post at the headquarters in Manhattan.
She was born in Tulsa, Okla., graduated from the University of Texas and held a master's degree from the New York School of Social Work of Columbia University.
Before Ms. Bess moved to Los Angeles last year, she had worked in politics, philanthropy, social service and the arts in New York City.
Active in Theatrical Causes
        Long active in theatrical causes, Ms. Dewhurst was a member of the board of the Actors' Fund of America, the theatrical charity and social services agency.
Active in Theatrical Causes
        Long active in theatrical causes, Ms. Dewhurst was a member of the board of the Actors' Fund of America, the theatrical charity and social services agency.
She came from a family with a tradition of social involvement.
Before Ms. Bess moved to Los Angeles last year, she had worked in politics, philanthropy, social service and the arts in New York City.
"
        Both because of her devotion to language and defiance of all social instituitions, the critic Martin Green once wrote, Ms.
After her retirement, Mrs. Reed continued her involvement in business and civic affairs in Kansas City, serving on the school board and boards of numerous social and cultural institutions, including the Kansas City Art Institute and the Midwest Research Institute.
After her retirement, Mrs. Reed continued her involvement in business and civic affairs in Kansas City, serving on the school board and boards of numerous social and cultural institutions, including the Kansas City Art Institute and the Midwest Research Institute.
She was 96 years old and lived at the Tolstoy Foundation Nursing Home in Valley Cottage, N.Y.
        She died of pneumonia, said Elizabeth Lopukhin, a social worker at the nursing home.
Miss Ramsay was widely admired for her devotion to good writing and social commitment, and one of her favorite admonitions to a new writer was, "Don't extract the teeth from anything, dear.
When she learned she was infected with AIDS, she became an advocate for better medical and social treatment of people with the AIDS virus.
Mrs. Stone was the great-great-granddaughter of Robert Owen, the British social reformer and socialist who founded the cooperative colony of New Harmony in Indiana.

        Alice R. Bachrach, a volunteer leader of numerous national social service agencies who was involved in a landmark discrimination suit, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Professor MacVicar believed in educating students about their social responsibilities.
The Swedish Academy, in a brief critique of her works issued with its citation, said today: "Gordimer writes with intense immediacy about the extremely complicated personal and social relationships in her environment.
As a young writer, she has said, she was strongly influenced by "The Jungle," Upton Sinclair's 1906 novel of social protest in America, which started her thinking about the plight of the miners in her own country.

        Roberta Strauss Feuerlicht, an author of 18 books of history and biography who frequently espoused liberal social and political causes, died yesterday of congestive heart failure, her husband said.
Ms. Lilly was a witty participant in the social whirl of charity balls and nightclubs she featured in her books and as a gossip columnist for The New York Post, the McNaught Syndicate and WPIX television in New York.
In 1941, she was recruited by the O.S.S., forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency, as a social science analyst.
Soon after earning a master's degree in social work from the University of Pittsburgh in 1968, she became the counseling director for Planned Parenthood in Western Pennsylvania, based in Pittsburgh.
The decorators devised a "salon of social consciousness," an airy living room that was considered the most influential room in the showhouse.

        Minna Citron, a painter and printmaker best known for her Social Realist images of New York City, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.
She had her first solo exhibition in 1930 at the New School for Social Research.

        Lydia Ulana Savoyka, a Ukrainian-born social worker, who served 35 years as director of immigration counseling services for the United States Catholic Conference, died on Dec. 20 at St. Vincent's Hospital.
She established the photography program at the New School for Social Research, and published several other books.
