
        Gretchen Householder Poston, the White House social secretary in the Carter Administration, died Monday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington.
In January 1977, she was appointed the White House social secretary, a post in which she organized the visit of Pope John Paul II to the White House and state dinners celebrating the Panama Canal treaty, the Camp David accords and normalized relations with China.
Over 60 years, she amassed some 7,000 books by and about British authors, about British literature and British social history.
Mrs. Walters, who used the pen name, Elizabeth Ogg, wrote nearly 50 pamphlets dealing mainly with mental health and social problems for the Public Affairs Committee, Inc. of New York City.

        Shirley Jenkins, a noted social work researcher, author and educator, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
Dr. Jenkins wrote 10 books and was the founding director of the Center for the Study of Social Work Practice.
The center is co-sponsored by Columbia University's School of Social Work and the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services.
Served on Several Panels
        She was director of research training in social work and mental health for the National Institutes of Health from 1977 to 1988.
Among the issues she studied for government and private agencies were cultural factors in providing social services to new immigrants, family welfare programs, foster care, Social Security and the shortchanging of minorities and the poor in the allocation of park and recreation services.
Among the issues she studied for government and private agencies were cultural factors in providing social services to new immigrants, family welfare programs, foster care, Social Security and the shortchanging of minorities and the poor in the allocation of park and recreation services.

        Paula Ruth Oboler Schwartz, a psychotherapist, social worker and civil rights advocate, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
In the 1960's she was a caseworker for the Suffolk County Social Services Department, worked for the National Council on Aging and was the community relations director for the Long Island chapter of the Congress of Racial Equality.
In the 1970's she was the social-services coordinator for the Community Affairs Department in Islip, L.I., for two years and taught at Adelphi's School of Social Work for six years.
After graduating from the University of New Mexico, she earned a master's degree in social work at Adelphi University.
Mrs. Berman, a social worker, began a legal battle after her daughter Sharon, now 17, was born with Down Syndrome.
A native of Montreal, she received her Bachelor of Arts degree from McGill University in Canada, a master's in art therapy in 1981 from the College of New Rochelle and a master's in social work from Fordham University in 1988.
She had a reputation as a successful fund-raiser and a pragmatic academic who urged that urban universities play a dominant role in spurring economic growth and solving social problems in the same way that land-grant colleges of a century ago did in developing America's agricultural economy.
Mrs. Black's greatest contribution to American folk art scholarship was her identification of the unsigned paintings of known American 18th- and 19th-century artists, attributions she based largely on social history.
'Engagingly Natural'
        After making her movie debut in 1961 in a supporting role in "Splendor in the Grass," she won a Tony award in 1963 for her performance, as a social worker, opposite Jason Robards in "A Thousand Clowns," and a year later, she won another Tony as the slightly off-beat mistress of a tycoon, played by Gene Hackman, in "Any Wednesday.
Successive Tonys
        After making her movie debut in 1961 in a supporting role in "Splendor in the Grass," she won a Tony Award in 1963 for her performance on Broadway, opposite Jason Robards, as a social worker in "A Thousand Clowns.
In 1924, she married Gerald H. Carson, an advertising executive, who later wrote several books as a social historian, including "Cornflake Crusade.
Surviving are her husband, Lewis Feuer, a noted sociologist, philosopher, and social critic; a daughter, Robin F. Miller of Newton, Mass., a professor of Russian literature at Brandeis University, and three granddaughters.
      
Her word play and social commentary often displayed incisive wit.
As a psychologist, Dr. Levine focused on helping deaf people cope with feelings of social isolation from hearing people.

        Stowe Whitman Hausner, a prominent authority on social work, died on Saturday at her home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 69 years old.
Mrs. Hausner, a 1944 graduate of Hunter College, was a founding director of the social services division at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, and chief social worker for the Westchester County Community Health Board.
Mrs. Hausner, a 1944 graduate of Hunter College, was a founding director of the social services division at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, and chief social worker for the Westchester County Community Health Board.
Later, she taught social work at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and maintained an active practice in cognitive therapy.
At Bennington in 1937, Miss Joel danced in the premiere of "Trend," Miss Holm's monumentally scaled depiction of social conflicts.
When she considered becoming a social worker, she said Dr. Alex Rosen, dean of New York University's School of Social Work, had told her, "You will do a lot more good going on boards, raising money and getting involved in direct service to meet community needs.
When she considered becoming a social worker, she said Dr. Alex Rosen, dean of New York University's School of Social Work, had told her, "You will do a lot more good going on boards, raising money and getting involved in direct service to meet community needs.
Together they made contributions to many charitable causes and were the hosts of many social and business events.
Although she tended to socialize mainly with Democrats, she made an exception for Henry Kissinger and his wife Nancy, Republicans who were among the New York social lions who liked to go to "Mollie's.
During her tenure, Big Sisters built a staff of social workers, psychologists and other professionals and opened offices in courts across the city to help neglected, delinquent or otherwise troubled youngsters.
She resumed her studies at Columbia University, where she earned a master's degree in social work in 1952.
Sponsors of the Marathon
        The foundation primarily supported education, social and religious welfare agencies, hospitals and health associations as well as museums and the performing arts.
She studied at the New School for Social Research; the Biblical Seminary of New York, the predecessor to the New York Theological Seminary, and the Columbia University School of Library Service.

        Katharine Bradley Lenhart, a volunteer active for decades in civic and social causes, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
She also led private social service agencies as president of the statewide Health and Welfare Network, New York Communities Aid Association and State Association for Community Services.
Her story was all the more dramatic because of the privilege she was born into, with artistic talent, affluence, private schools and social prominence.
Reared in the Brooklyn Heights section of Brooklyn, Miss Wilson graduated from Barnard College and earned a master's degree from the Fordham University School of Social Work.
She then worked for adoption and foster-care agencies in New York City before joining the International Social Service, which works to reunite families separated by war.
Although she never received a high school diploma or college degree, she studied philosophy under Bertrand Russell at the New School for Social Research and studied at Columbia University.
In her fiction, Mrs. Cooper stayed close to home, concocting a delicate social satire from characters and settings familiar to her.
's School of Humanities and Social Sciences from 1984 to 1990.

        Elinor Kridel Bernheim, a social-welfare volunteer whose widely cast interests ranged from the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and Columbia University's School of Social Work to a community center she founded in the Bronx, died yesterday at her Upper East Side home.
Also remaining dear to her heart was the New York School of Social Work at Columbia, a place where she did postgraduate work after her 40th birthday, in the 1947-48 academic year.
Over the decades, Mrs. Bernheim also was an officer or otherwise involved in, among others, the Jewish Association of Neighborhood Centers, the National Jewish Welfare Board, the National Conference for Social Welfare, an advisory committee on volunteer services for the Veterans Administration, the United Neighborhood Houses of New York City, the National Council on Social Work Education and the Associated Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Associations.
Over the decades, Mrs. Bernheim also was an officer or otherwise involved in, among others, the Jewish Association of Neighborhood Centers, the National Jewish Welfare Board, the National Conference for Social Welfare, an advisory committee on volunteer services for the Veterans Administration, the United Neighborhood Houses of New York City, the National Council on Social Work Education and the Associated Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Associations.
For the last eight years Dr. Shepherd was the director of social pediatric training at the Montefiore Medical Center.

        Abigail Adams Eliot, a social worker who became a nationally known authority on early childhood education, died Thursday at the New England Deaconess Home, a nursing home in Concord, Mass.
She was born in Boston, graduated from Radcliffe College in 1914 and was a social worker for several years.
Ms. Eubanks significantly expanded the college library's African and Caribbean collection and was a founding member of the Social Responsibilities Roundtable of the American Library Association.

        Joann Thompson, a New York City health-care advocate and an advocate for social and religious causes, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.
There she worked with the Faith and Life Community, an ecumenical, interracial program of religious action in civil rights and other social issues.
Ms. Eubanks significantly expanded the college library's African and Caribbean collection and was a founding member of the Social Responsibilities Roundtable of the American Library Association.

        Joann Thompson, a New York City health-care advocate and an advocate for social and religious causes, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.
There she worked with the Faith and Life Community, an ecumenical, interracial program of religious action in civil rights and other social issues.
Her 1937 "Trend," a dance of social protest, is considered a masterwork of American modern dance.
" Early TV, Then Broadway
        Miss Holm became a United States citizen in 1939, the same year she received the Dance Magazine Award for "Tragic Exodus," a powerful dance of social commentary.
After earning a master's degree in education from the New School for Social Research in 1970, she taught at Escuela Hispana in Manhattan until her retirement in 1980.
She returned and embarked on a lifelong mission of balancing society and its entitlements and the social obligations of Roosevelt's New Deal.
"
        Dr. Dinnerstein was born in New York City, graduated from Brooklyn College and earned her Ph.D. in psychology at the New School for Social Research.
She was teaching as a professor at Fordham University's School of Social Work at the time of her death.
Ms. McMurray was a graduate of Temple University and held a master's degree in social services from Bryn Mawr College.
"
        Friends say her service as an information and welfare officer in the Women's Auxiliary Air Force in World War II and a subsequent decision to become a social worker in Cape Town and Johannesburg exposed her to some of the realities of South Africa.
It was colored by years of living in different parts of Europe -- she moved to Brittany in 1923, then lived in Paris and elsewhere -- and by social and political concerns.
' At Home in Europe
        "Unlike some of her better-known peers," Ms. Hornaday wrote, Miss Boyle "survived the halcyon days of Paris in the 1920's," and although she "is not as notorious as some of the other Moderns -- those intrepid expatriate writers who set out to change language, mesh literature and social context and expose the dissonance of contemporary life -- she evokes these tensions with a gossamer fineness.
Professor Donovan was the head of research at the Hunter College School of Social Work.
She specialized in the study of the social consequences of economic change, such as the impact of job loss on individuals.
She was born in Peoria, Ill., and earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri in 1968 and a doctorate from the Columbia School of Social Work in 1983.
Before joining the Hunter faculty, she taught at New York University and Columbia, where she was research director of the school's Industrial Social Welfare Center.

        Rosalind A. Lorwin, a professor emeritus of social psychology at San Diego State University and a former mayor of Del Mar, Calif., died Thursday at her home in Del Mar.
Mrs. Saunders died of cancer, said her son, Anthony D. Saunders, of Stamford, N.Y.
        Mrs. Saunders received a bachelor's degree from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1949, a master's degree from Columbia University School of Social Work in 1976, and a certificate in psycholanalytic training from the Institute for Contemporary Psychotherapy in 1979.
