''You must be prepared to sacrifice many of your social contacts until your family is full grown,'' she said, ''and must always remember that your home comes before all else.

        Beatrice S. Burstein, who was one of the first women to serve as a justice of the State Supreme Court and who used her position to promote social activism, died on Saturday at her home in Lawrence, on Long Island.
The situation led to an early experience of being a social outcast that might have influenced the daughter's subsequent attention to class preferences and enforced ignorance of extramarital affairs.
Intending to be a portrait painter, she studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, where she met Robert Gwathmey, who would become known for his social realist paintings.
''
        Some friends said that the above-the-battle stance that she evidenced in ''The Last Wave'' and in other writing -- her diaries during the mid-'30's made scant mention of the large political and social questions of the day -- was a reflection, in part, of her privileged, sheltered upbringing.
''
        After earning a degree in English from the University of Wisconsin in 1928, and marrying Kinsey Clymer, a journalist who became a social worker, she tried to return to country life.
For more than 40 years, beginning in 1930, she was on the headquarters staff of the league, a movement dedicated to helping African-Americans gain social and economic equality by finding better jobs and owning their own homes and businesses.

        Marie Jahoda, one of the world's foremost social psychologists and an emeritus professor at the University of Sussex, died on April 28 at her home in Keymer, in southeast England.
In a long career as a researcher, teacher and writer, Dr. Jahoda, known as Mitzi, examined social issues in the field well beyond the realm of dry statistics, and in her classes emphasized a humanistic approach and adherence to scientific rigor in social research.
In a long career as a researcher, teacher and writer, Dr. Jahoda, known as Mitzi, examined social issues in the field well beyond the realm of dry statistics, and in her classes emphasized a humanistic approach and adherence to scientific rigor in social research.
In New York from 1949 to 1958, she was a professor of social psychology at N.Y.U.
She was the source of a steady stream of surveys and reports on the social fabric of the city and the country.
For Dr. Jahoda the project demonstrated that work met a basic need for most people, giving them personal worth, social coherence and structured time.
As a Social Democrat opposed to the Austrian government even before Hitler annexed the country, she was imprisoned in 1936 but managed to reach England.
Correction:  May 18, 2001, Friday  An obituary on May 10 about Dr. Marie Jahoda, a social psychologist, omitted two survivors.
She served as the president of Big Sisters and for 25 years was on the board of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, where she focused on programs for the elderly and public social policy.

        Louise Sulzberger, who was active in New York City social service work for many years and was a member of the New York State Commission on Aging and the community planning board for the Upper East Side, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.

        Louise B. Sulzberger, who was active in New York City social service work for many years and was a member of the New York State Commission on Aging and the community planning board for the Upper East Side, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Graham was one of the most powerful figures in American journalism and, for the last decades of her life, at the pinnacle of Washington's political and social establishments, a position this insecure wife and mother never imagined she would, or could, occupy.
Her father was often away working, her mother traveling and writing  letters home about her social conquests.
Truman Capote gave what could only be called a coming-out party for her, the Black and White Ball at the Plaza in New York, which was not only  the social event of the 1966 season, but also a masked ball of such glamour that it is considered one of the legendary parties of the 20th century.
She saw herself as both a friend and protector of artists, and with her third husband, the painter Will Brandt, whom she married in 1960, she oversaw a busy social scene in both her Manhattan and Long Island homes.
Undeterred by scrapes with the law, she flourished when social and legal barriers fell.
A new generation of older people, whom she called the young-old, could be distinguished from the middle-aged primarily by retirement and from the old-old by vigor and social involvement, she wrote.
Dr. Bertram Cohler, director of Chicago's psychology department, said: ''While much of her work focused on the second half of life, she viewed older lives in terms of both earlier life experiences and social context, which led to her interest in emphasizing that social policy must be based in terms of need, not age.
Dr. Bertram Cohler, director of Chicago's psychology department, said: ''While much of her work focused on the second half of life, she viewed older lives in terms of both earlier life experiences and social context, which led to her interest in emphasizing that social policy must be based in terms of need, not age.
Older people should not be seen as the expendables of society but instead as the social contributors as well as the self-fulfilled, she wrote in The Times.
''
        In her later work, she wrote of an increasing antagonism toward older people for occupying ''a growing number of power positions,'' and she urged fellow social scientists to explore ways to avoid such resentment.
From 1989 to 1995 she was a visiting fellow at the Institution for Social and Policy Studies at Yale.

        Ethel Redner Scull, who with her husband, Robert, achieved fame and social status in the 1960's by building one of the first major collections of Pop and Minimal art and becoming the subject of an Andy Warhol portrait, died on Monday at a retirement home in Manhattan.
Meanwhile her active social life ground to a halt.
Later, asked by an interviewer about accusations that he and his wife bought art for investment and for social climbing, Mr. Scull replied: ''It's all true.
Graham often commented on political and social issues, including the Depression and the Spanish Civil War.
And its stature in the New York social scene was only partly restored.
Dr. Almy was widely known for her studies of the mental, emotional and social development of the very young.
Ms. Perkins was educated in Switzerland, France and Italy, traveled widely and was introduced to the famous people in her mother's and grandmother's social world.
'' Her reply summed up her philosophy: ''In 1963, the social forces that now support the financial and legal equality of women had not gained public favor.
'' Her reply summed up her philosophy: ''In 1963, the social forces that now support the financial and legal equality of women had not gained public favor.
Dr. Schor, the Benjamin F. Barge professor of French at Yale University, brought French psychoanalytic and deconstructive theory to French studies in the United States, said Joan W. Scott, a professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.
        As one example of how this worked, she cited Dr. Schor's essay on fetishism in the novels of George Sand, the cigar-smoking, cross-dressing novelist who was the most widely celebrated female writer in France in the 1800's.
