She later lectured on women and Africa at schools and colleges, including New York University and the New School for Social Research.

       Elizabeth Gilmore Holt, an art historian who wrote widely on the social context of art, died Monday at her home in Washington.
Elizabeth Gilmore Holt, an art historian who wrote widely on the social context of art, died Monday at her home in Washington.
A graduate of Hunter College and Columbia University, Mrs. Stein became a social worker in 1935, caring for families and taking part in efforts to help Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany.
Known for her irreverence and for fascination with society, Mrs. Dorsey frequently combined fashion and social reporting, and was in fact a member of the international social set herself.
Known for her irreverence and for fascination with society, Mrs. Dorsey frequently combined fashion and social reporting, and was in fact a member of the international social set herself.
''She liked the social aspects of fashion and she drew the connection between the two worlds,'' he added.
She was a graduate of Connecticut College and was on the faculty of the New School for Social Research for 20 years.

       Dr. Sarah Kestenbaum, a professor of social work at Hebrew University in Jerusalem and a legislative assistant to Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat, died of cancer Saturday at the Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem.
Dr. Sarah Kestenbaum, a professor of social work at Hebrew University in Jerusalem and a legislative assistant to Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat, died of cancer Saturday at the Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem.
Mrs. Manley is survived by two sons: Michael, leader of the party his father founded and Jamaica's Prime Minister from 1972 to 1980, and Douglas, a social scientist who served in his brother's Cabinet.
      
Miss Dehn, who directed a company of black dancers until 1973, was considered a pioneer in documenting the various styles of black social dance.
Its images of the celebrated Lindy Hoppers, who danced at the Savoy Ballroom in Harlem in the 1940's, are considered among the most valuable archival footage in a field that covers both social and theatrical history.

       Sarah Goddard Power, New York City's deputy assistant secretary of state for human rights and social affairs in 1980 and 1981, died in a fall Tuesday from Burton Tower on the campus of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
Sarah Goddard Power, New York City's deputy assistant secretary of state for human rights and social affairs in 1980 and 1981, died in a fall Tuesday from Burton Tower on the campus of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
The university's president, Harold T. Shapiro, said yesterday that Mrs. Power's death was ''a great loss for the university, for the state and for those committed to more progressive social policy.

       Sarah Connell, a social worker and former New York City regional director for the State Office of Mental Health, died of cancer Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Sarah Connell, a social worker and former New York City regional director for the State Office of Mental Health, died of cancer Monday at her home in Manhattan.
She is survived by her husband, Sydney Connell, a retired social worker; a sister, Rita Hirsch of Manhattan, and two stepsons, Joseph, of Brooklyn and Eric, of Manhattan.
      
In a 25-year career with The Times, Miss Curtis, as a reporter and as an editor, helped transform the coverage of fashion and society news, supervised the daily page of opinion opposite the editorial page and for the last four years wrote a weekly column of social commentary.
As an associate editor of The Times in charge of the Op-Ed page from 1974 to 1982, she brought an eclectic approach to a broad range of commentary and analysis on major social, economic and political issues of the day.
After her retirement in 1968, she taught for several years at the New School for Social Research.
In 1944, Mrs. Ziesing was the first alumna appointed to the faculty, teaching about the social aspects of economics.
Mrs. Ross joined the Dalton faculty in 1944 as a social studies teacher.

       Isabel Sayer Cox, who was active for many years in civic and social affairs in Montclair, N.J., died Sunday of pneumonia at a retirement village in Bedford, Mass.
Isabel Sayer Cox, who was active for many years in civic and social affairs in Montclair, N.J., died Sunday of pneumonia at a retirement village in Bedford, Mass.

       Dr. Florence Hollis, a professor emeritus at the Columbia University School of Social Work, died Thursday at Crosslands, a retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 80 years old.
Dr. Florence Hollis, a professor emeritus at the Columbia University School of Social Work, died Thursday at Crosslands, a retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 80 years old.
Dr. Hollis, a native of Philadelphia, received her doctorate in social work from Bryn Mawr College.
She was on the faculty of Columbia's School of Social Work from 1947 to 1972, when she retired.
She was the chairwoman of the Little Red School House and the Elisabeth Irwin High School in Manhattan, and the founder and chairwoman of the associates of the New School for Social Research.
She was a graduate of the London School of Economics and the New School of Social Research, where she received a master's degree in 1944.
Mrs. Nash was a social worker and Rabbi Nash was equally involved in that field.
Under her stewardship, the society provided a social setting for deaf people and helped them in such practical matters as finding jobs.
Fired for 'Agitating' Workers
        Judge Polier was born in Portland, Ore., and her desire to correct social ills showed up early in life.

       Aileen Barlow Ryan, a former New York City Councilwoman who in 17 years on the Council played a key role in clashes over some of the most heated social issues of the 1970's, died Saturday of heart disease at Long Beach (L.I.
Aileen Barlow Ryan, a former New York City Councilwoman who in 17 years on the Council played a key role in clashes over some of the most heated social issues of the 1970's, died Saturday of heart disease at Long Beach (L.I.
As chairwoman of the Council's General Welfare Committee, she was at the center of some of the most heated social issues of the 1970's.
''
        The first step was a job as a fiscal clerk in the Department of Social Services, which in 1949 paid $1,860 a year.
Many of her often oversized sculptures of heads or figures in stone, bronze and clay reflected her social and political concerns.
She was also trained as a social worker and, between acting jobs, worked with the American Red Cross, the New York State Department of Social Welfare and New York's Metropolitan Hospital.
She was also trained as a social worker and, between acting jobs, worked with the American Red Cross, the New York State Department of Social Welfare and New York's Metropolitan Hospital.
She spent much of her Social Security checks on food for her pet cats, dogs and rats, which she called ''my kids.
In 1919, her mother married Dr. Albert Elmer Austin, a prominent physician in Greenwich, Conn. On a trip to Europe in 1920, the 18-year-old Clare met Elsa Maxwell among other social figures.
They married in 1923 in a wedding called ''the most important social event of the season.
''
        Her penthouse apartment on East 57th Street, Manhattan, drew the social, artistic and political types who peopled Vanity Fair's pages.
Moved to Honolulu
        In later years she devoted herself to social life in Phoenix, where the Luces had a house - skindiving, doing mosaics and needlepoint, painting and writing.
Marrow Professor of Psychology at the New School for Social Research.
      
Reviewing a 1980 concert, John Rockwell wrote in The New York Times: ''The consistently high quality of these particular benefits can be traced to the close professional and social circle in which Miss du Pre and her husband move.
She was 83 years old and lived in Little Compton, R.I.
        Dr. Wislocki, who received her bachelor's degree at Vassar and her medical degree at the Johns Hopkins University, was a staff psychiatrist at a children's social services agency in Boston before she joined the Vassar College administration in 1957.
In 1920 she became the social secretary of Charles R. Crane, an envoy to China, and returned to that country for several years.
It conducts social research, policy analysis and public education in family planning, reproductive health and population matters.
