She was on the executive committee of the New York chapter of Physicians for Social Responsibility and had an office at the Natural Resources Defense Council in New York, where she was a consultant.
She traveled widely, writing and speaking about women as the victims of armed conflicts and social injustices.
The couple taught at the New School for Social Research in New York, where she earned a master of social science degree in 1943.
The couple taught at the New School for Social Research in New York, where she earned a master of social science degree in 1943.
Her social circle included the expected royalty and celebrities, like her friend Greta Garbo, whom she called ''the loveliest woman you or I ever saw or will see,'' but she preferred that they be interesting people.
She was given the opportunity to organize the emphysema clinic to deal comprehensively with the patients' medical, social and economic conditions, and to undertake a systematic study and record of their progress.
Concerts, bake sales and renting the museum for social occasions did not raise enough.
Ms. Simone was as famous for her social consciousness as she was for her music.

        Celine G. Marcus, former executive director of the Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association, an East Side social services organization, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She spent those 23 years helping to create a network of social services in the association's neighborhood, from 59th to 96th Streets and Fifth Avenue to the East River.
Although her academic background was in the humanities and the social sciences, she was generally comfortable in the world of science, especially biology.
''By making social factors irrelevant,'' she wrote, ''genetic explanations of crime provide convenient excuses for those seeking to dismantle the welfare state.
''
        Longing to Be a Boy
        Katharine Houghton Hepburn was born into a close family whose comfortable social status and unconventional opinions fostered self-confidence and independence.

        Doris Bass Andrews, who with her husband, Sperry Andrews, pursued the preservation of Weir Farm, where the Impressionist painter J. Alden Weir and friends met for painting and social activity, died on May 25 in Danbury, Conn. She was 82.
Khieu Thirith, then known by her married name, Ieng Thirith, became the minister of social affairs in a regime that became notorious for overworking the population, starving many to death and tearing apart families.
After high school she did social work for a settlement house while also appearing in popular all-black revues.

        Jean R. Warnke, a volunteer in social service organizations in Washington and the widow of Paul C. Warnke, a top official in the Johnson and Carter administrations, died on Monday in a Brooklyn hospice.
From 1932 to 1948, the countess bore five sons and six daughters, most of whom married into their own social class.
She became director of international relations and social relations for the National Council of Jewish Women, and, among other things, helped bring Jews out of Hitler's Germany.
She believed that these exercises, which she described as a kind of meditation in action, helped students shed social conditioning and recover an innate awareness.
Ms. Selver offered some of her first sensory-awareness classes in 1950 at the New School for Social Research in New York City.
A lifelong member of the governing Social Democrats, she had been mentioned as a future party leader.
Ms. Lindh supported the same causes embraced by Swedish Social Democrats, including environmental protection and human rights, but she was unusually outspoken.
When the Social Democrats regained power in 1994, she was named environment minister.
Although there were back-to-back shows both day and evening, the week was not unalloyed work for the writers; social events, sponsored by fashion personalities, were interspersed.
As a political partner to her husband, Madame Chiang developed what she called the New Life Movement, a series of principles for modernizing China through social discipline, courtesy and service.
Most were well received by readers, but some critics said the plots were thin and the social commentary thick, and that the real subjects were women's changing social positions, relationships with one another and struggle for independence.
Most were well received by readers, but some critics said the plots were thin and the social commentary thick, and that the real subjects were women's changing social positions, relationships with one another and struggle for independence.
The books offered scathing depictions of academic backbiting, observations on Ivy League social pretensions and thinly veiled, unflattering portraits of Columbia colleagues, including one professor who seemed to have been modeled after the writer Lionel Trilling.
Dr. Whiting developed a particular interest in the development of gender roles, a subject she covered in her 1988 book, ''Children of Different Worlds: The Formation of Social Behavior,'' written with Dr. Carolyn P. Edwards.
Her book on the lives of Kenyan women, ''Ngecha: A Kenyan Community in a Time of Rapid Social Change,'' also written with Dr. Edwards, is to be published later this year.
Their social circle comprised people who initially rejected Hitler's Nazis as boors and were too late to grasp the true dimensions of the horror that befell Europe.
Guest's death in 1982, the couple was prominent in international social circles, hunting in India with the Maharaja of Jaipur and frequently entertaining the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, who subsequently became godparents of their children, Cornelia and Alexander.
''My ambition was to be a successful enough actress to get myself thrown out of the Social Register,'' she once said.
Guest's death in 1982, the couple was prominent in international social circles, hunting in India with the Maharaja of Jaipur and frequently entertaining the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, who subsequently became godparents of their children, Cornelia and Alexander.
''My ambition was to be a successful enough actress to get myself thrown out of the Social Register,'' she once said.
A retired professor of social work, Dr. Konopka was the author of several works, including ''The Adolescent Girl in Conflict.
Dr. Konopka received a master's degree in social service administration from the University of Pittsburgh and joined the social work faculty at the University of Minnesota in 1947.
Dr. Konopka received a master's degree in social service administration from the University of Pittsburgh and joined the social work faculty at the University of Minnesota in 1947.
She later received a doctorate in social welfare from Columbia.

        Blanche Davis Blank, a social scientist and author who led Hunter College as interim president in the early 1990's, died on Friday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y., her family said.
Dr. Blank, a former social science dean at Hunter and academic dean at Yeshiva University, was acting president of Hunter College from 1993 until her retirement as professor emeritus two years later.
Named a full professor in 1968, she was dean of the division of social sciences from 1972 until she joined the staff at Yeshiva University in 1977.
During her tenure, she applied her skill as a speaker and debater to fight for social equality for the working class, women, and African-Americans.
