A vivacious woman with meticulous manners, Mrs. MacArthur took seriously the social duties connected with her husband's position, both in the military and later in private life.
After his death, she refused to bask in reflected fame, leading a quiet social life within a select circle of well-known New Yorkers.
''
        Her intimate friends also recalled that although she would order a martini ''to be social'' when dining out, she had earlier briefed the waiters and bartenders in her favorite restaurants on what that really meant.
She joined the Los Angeles social circuit, holding large parties in her Bel-Air house.
Peter Scheifinger, president of an organization of Austrian architects and related professionals, summed up her importance in an Austrian daily newspaper, Der Standard: ''With her concern for social welfare and her unyielding anti-fascism, she erected socially significant road signs for the Republic of Austria that extended beyond her artistic field of endeavor.

        Hazel Wolf, an ardent environmentalist whose life spanned the 20th century and whose causes encompassed the era's social turmoil, died in Port Angeles, Wash., on Wednesday.
Especially in the Seattle region, but also beyond, she was elder stateswoman in a community of intersecting social causes, recognized by the Association of Biologists and Ecologists of Nicaragua for conservation work there, by the Washington Physicians for Social Responsibility with their Paul Beeson Peace Award, by the National Audubon Society with its medal of excellence and last year by Seattle with its Spirit of America Award.
Especially in the Seattle region, but also beyond, she was elder stateswoman in a community of intersecting social causes, recognized by the Association of Biologists and Ecologists of Nicaragua for conservation work there, by the Washington Physicians for Social Responsibility with their Paul Beeson Peace Award, by the National Audubon Society with its medal of excellence and last year by Seattle with its Spirit of America Award.
She joined the Communist Party during the Depression, attracted by its support for social welfare programs like food subsidies, unemployment aid and social security.
She joined the Communist Party during the Depression, attracted by its support for social welfare programs like food subsidies, unemployment aid and social security.
Later that year, she joined the Times editorial board, commenting on social policy issues like smoking, abortion and assisted suicide, and on whimsical topics such as the world as seen from the M10 bus.
In 1958 the couple created a foundation, Mottahedeh Development Services Inc., to help with social and economic development projects in the third world.
''I do not think that anyone who stops to consider it can deny that we are in the midst of a social revolution,'' Ms. Clark said in a paper on economic strategies written for Mayor La Guardia in 1940.
Her first job was with a magazine published for social workers.
She never married, perhaps because her social life was circumscribed by the mountains of work she habitually brought home.
''
        The result was that her husband gave up flying, while she dropped out of the social and political life to devote herself to it.

        Anna Sokolow, a modern-dance choreographer known for her social commitment and searing depictions of urban loneliness, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Even while dancing with Graham, she had a little troupe of her own, the Dance Unit, and gained a reputation as a choreographer with a social conscience.
Mrs. Edmiston began showing art in her Brooklyn apartment in the 1970's while running a full-time psychiatric social work practice.
She received a master's degree in social work from New York University and was preparing a dissertation in social policy at Columbia University at the time of her death.
She received a master's degree in social work from New York University and was preparing a dissertation in social policy at Columbia University at the time of her death.
She continued to practice as a psychiatric social worker until the mid-1980's.
She was a social worker and a dancer and during World War II a welfare officer with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration.
''
        In the mid-1980's Miss Von Scherler earned a master's degree in social work and became a therapist and counselor; she worked for more than 10 years at an AIDS treatment center in Greenwich Village.

        Sister Mary Geraldine Tobia, a longtime co-director of the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park, a social service agency serving people in that section of Brooklyn, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
For her part, Sister Mary Paul has been the center's clinical director, overseeing clinical social workers in their work within the neighborhood.
Sister Mary Geraldine was born and raised in Newark, and received a bachelor's degree, magna cum laude, in 1967 from Fordham, a master's degree in 1976 from the family and community relations department of Teachers College at Columbia, and a master's degree in 1985 from Columbia's School of Social Work.

        Betsy Dworkin, a former senior lecturer in social policy and administration at the University of London's Chelsea and University colleges, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich Village.
In 1969, she moved to Britain, where in 1972 she received a second master's degree, this one in social policy, from the London School of Economics.
The losses of her son and husband in the span of a year left her devastated, and she moved to New York, settling into a Fifth Avenue apartment and embarking on a busy social schedule.

        Louise Tanner, a writer whose work often mirrored her Social Register upbringing, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
In addition to two social histories  ''Here Today'' (1959) and ''All the Things We Were'' (1968), Ms. Tanner wrote two novels for young adults, ''Reggie and Nilma'' and ''Dr.
Ms. Holtz, a peppery, no-nonsense social worker, agreed and eventually set up programs to benefit dancers, musicians and actors working in the theater district.
She focused on the social and exploratory skills of infants and young children.
Mrs. Spingarn's paper demanded that patients have a say in their medical treatment, that former cancer patients be freed of any social stigma and that employers and insurance companies not discriminate against them.
She graduated with a bachelor of arts degree from Vassar College in 1943, and became a journalist, then wrote on health and social policy for the federal government.
Offstage, Ms. Marchand was the reverse of so many of her strong-willed characters, a woman with a natural sense of insecurity, someone who felt uneasy in social situations.
One governor recognized Ms. Goncalves da Silva's social role by giving her a telephone, the first in the favela.
Though their political influence is marginal, such groups play a significant role in bringing social issues to the attention of member states.
liaison unit in the United Nations Department of Economic and Social affairs, a post she held until her retirement.

        Dr. Josephine D. Martin, a psychiatrist who helped rootless children, troubled adolescents and terrified civil rights activists in a lifelong crusade to weld the healing of personal and social wounds, died on July 6 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
At 19, she married a  fellow patient, a social worker named Earl Martin.
A member of the committees on agriculture, children and families, health, insurance, and social services, she was an advocate of allocating more state money to provide mammographies for detection of  breast cancer in women.
Gordon was the illegitimate child of Jack Copper, Sackville-West's chauffeur (a grandfather was Rudyard Kipling's gardener) and Marjorie Hall Ticehurst, who came, Mrs. Simmons always said, from a high social class.
She was a member of the faculty of the New School for Social Research from 1960 until the late 1990's.
Mrs. Koulomzin also did social work among poor Russian emigres, working with Elizabeth Skobtsova, who became an Orthodox nun known as Mother Maria and died in the Ravensbruck concentration camp after trying to help save Jews during the German occupation.
Mrs. Bandaranaike was born Sirimavo Ratwatte on April 17, 1916, into one of the island nation's wealthy feudal families, one that was at the pinnacle of Sri Lanka's social hierarchy.

        Anna Berenson Mayer, a social work policy planner and retired professor of social policy at Rutgers University, died on Wednesday at a New Brunswick, N.J., hospital.

        Anna Berenson Mayer, a social work policy planner and retired professor of social policy at Rutgers University, died on Wednesday at a New Brunswick, N.J., hospital.
She was 91 and lived in East Brunswick, N.J.
        Dr. Mayer, who received a doctorate in social work from Columbia University, was chosen in 1983 to head a newly formed Governor's Committee on Children's Services Planning for New Jersey.
She was also known as one of two co-authors of a monograph, ''Day Care as a Social Instrument,'' written for the Ford Foundation in the early 1960's.
She was born in New Orleans and taught at Columbia and New York Universities and then for a decade at the Rutgers Graduate School of Social Work.
For two decades, Ms. Logan was the dean of the City Hall press corps, a diminutive figure in black with an encyclopedic knowledge of the city's social and political history.
She was active in the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, a refugee organization, and became a founding member of the National Refugee Service (now the New York Association for New Americans), the Council for Jewish Women and the Jewish Social Service Association.
She graduated from Smith College in 1932 and attended Columbia University's School of Social Work.
She worked as a psychiatric social worker with delinquent girls in upstate New York, where, among other things, she taught her clients to play pool.
She was active in the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, a refugee organization, and became a founding member of the National Refugee Service (now the New York Association for New Americans), the Council for Jewish Women and the Jewish Social Service Association.
She graduated from Smith College in 1932 and attended Columbia University's School of Social Work.
Ms. Brooks used clipped lines, abstract word patterns and random rhymes to capture her new radical tone and her more direct expression of social concern.
But in the McMartin case and others like it, critics contended, zealous prosecutors and poorly trained social workers, faced with anxious parents, may unknowingly coach children to tell stories of abuse or embroider on them.
Ms. Brooks used clipped lines, abstract word patterns and random rhymes to capture her new radical tone and her more direct expression of social concern.
