A lifelong supporter of the ruling Social Democratic Party, Mrs. Lindgren published a caustic newspaper satire before the 1976 election in which she calculated that, because of competing local and federal taxes, her income was taxed at an annual rate of 102 percent.
The Social Democrats, in power for more than 40 years, were defeated, and tax cuts followed, events Mrs. Lindgren was sometimes credited with bringing about.
There, while studying writing at the New School for Social Research, she met the poet Arnold Adoff, whom she married in 1960.
It was attended by 600 of the most influential names in design, manufacturing and retailing, as well as by scores of social and theater personalities who were both clients and friends.
A woman meeting her at a social event once gushed, ''Oh, Miss Trigère, I have a dress of yours that I've worn for 25 years.
It was attended by 600 of the most influential names in design, manufacturing and retailing, as well as by scores of social and theater personalities who were both clients and friends.
A woman meeting her at a social event once gushed, ''Oh, Miss Trigère, I have a dress of yours that I've worn for 25 years.

        Robin Anderson, an Australian filmmaker whose award-winning documentaries ranged from examinations of tribal life in Papua New Guinea to social and political controversies in Australia, died here on March 8.
When the war was over, Elizabeth's social life, essentially an extended search for a husband in the guise of a series of amusing diversions, began in earnest.
''
        Another duty was bucking up the flagging spirits of her husband, who hated the spotlight but who was required to make many public appearances, particularly as his father's health waned and his older brother proved more interested in a racy social life than in boring regal duties.
Dr. Dönhoff was a liberal in the European tradition, a conservative who believed that capitalism needed to be ''civilized'' by a social conscience.

        Laura Johnson, a flamboyant New York social figure who reveled in personal publicity but refused to have her many philanthropies made public, died May 12 at her home in Manhattan.
She earned a master's degree from Columbia University's New York School of Social Work in 1954.
She joined the faculty of San Diego State University's School of Social Work in 1978, and later founded the Graduate School for Community Development.
She rejected a request to bring her Nancy Drew style to bear on drug abuse and other social problems.
Her mother, whose designs were prized by the social lights of New York, Hollywood and Europe, was consumed by her passion for her work and her distaste for her children.
The book caused a sensation in 1970, when Americans were still struggling to comprehend the social upheavals set in motion by the women's movement.
Three years later, despite a lifetime's opposition to British membership of the European Common Market, as it was then called, Ms. Castle left the House of Commons and embarked on a second political career as a member of the European Parliament, where she spent the next 10 years fighting European federalism but supporting efforts to establish Europe-wide social standards.
And after a spell in opposition, she overhauled Britain's social security system as secretary for social services, linking state pensions to average earnings and introducing new child allowances paid directly to the mother rather than through a husband's pay check.
And after a spell in opposition, she overhauled Britain's social security system as secretary for social services, linking state pensions to average earnings and introducing new child allowances paid directly to the mother rather than through a husband's pay check.
An ardent liberal on most social issues, she was deeply traditional in matters of personal morality.
She answered the rest of the mail in similar fashion, drawing on experts in her powerful social circle.
''
        Her office, which by the 1990's was receiving 2,000 letters a day, functioned as a de facto clearing house for people in need, maintaining computerized lists of support groups and social service agencies in hundreds of cities.
An ardent liberal on most social issues, she was deeply traditional in matters of personal morality.
She answered the rest of the mail in similar fashion, drawing on experts in her powerful social circle.
''
        Her office, which by the 1990's was receiving 2,000 letters a day, functioned as a de facto clearing house for people in need, maintaining computerized lists of support groups and social service agencies in hundreds of cities.
She also was chairwoman of the council of advisers to the Hunter College School of Social Work and an adviser to the N.Y.U.
She attended Vassar College but switched to Sarah Lawrence, where her interests in acting, art and social life were more readily fulfilled.
''
        Dr. Stewart, then a member of the social medicine department at Oxford, was surprised to discover when she conducted a survey that children of mothers who had had this X-ray were almost twice as likely to have cancer as other children.
After the war this evolved into Theater Workshop, which toured with plays of social or political significance both in Britain and on the Continent.

        Elizabeth Longford, the best-selling biographer and political activist who was the widow of the social reformer Lord Longford and the matriarch of a family that bred other well-known writers, died on Wednesday at her home in Sussex.
She was already an academic and social success at Oxford University when John Betjeman, one of the many literary figures she befriended, called her ''the aesthetes' moll.
Lord Longford, who died at 95 in August 2001, was a Labor peer famous for championing social outcasts and unpopular causes.

        Vera G. List, a forward-looking philanthropist whose causes included contemporary art, opera, education and social justice, died Thursday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 94.
The Lists' beneficiaries included the Metropolitan Opera, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Jewish Theological Seminary, the Jewish Museum and the New School for Social Research, now New School University.
She was 84 and lived in Washington, where she was a leader of social life.
But her purpose was more than a matter of presentation: she sought to demonstrate how books of artistically bold pictures could also yield social and political meanings beyond the purview of art and thus appeal to broad audiences.

        Helen Levi Travis, a peace and social activist and the subject of a 1967 Supreme Court ruling that upheld her right to travel abroad, died on Nov. 14 in San Pedro, Calif. She was 86.
The Travises had moved to Southern California in the late 1950's, where Mrs. Travis was a caseworker for the Los Angeles Department of Social Services.
She also headed the Fellowship for Social Justice of the First Unitarian Church of Los Angeles and was active for many years in El Rescate, a private legal and social-services group for Central American refugees.

        Tamara Kern Hareven, a social historian of the family and its place in contemporary society, died on Oct. 18 at a hospital in Newark, Del.
Her interest lay in events like the closing of factories in New England or the social impact of World War II.
She wrote ''Families, History and Social Change: Life Course and Cross-Cultural Perspectives'' (Westview Press, 2000), edited ''Aging and Generational Relations'' (de Gruyter, 1996) and co-edited ''Family History Revisited: Comparative Perspectives'' (University of Delaware Press, 2001).
Among the books she edited were ''The Commonweal Reader'' (1949), ''Mothers: A Catholic Treasury of Great Stories'' (1951), ''The Papal Encyclicals in Their Historical Context'' (1956) and ''The Social Teachings of the Church'' (1963).
Ms. Robinson wrote that Mrs. Mahoney remembered feeling a sense of social responsibility for the first time at age 10 when she was riding in a friend's pony cart.
That was my first feeling of social conscience.
She received almost no royalties for her reissued recordings, obtained only minimal Social Security and suffered in recent years from diabetes and kidney failure, Peter Sando, her nephew, said.
Tommy Dorsey asked her to sing with his band, but she turned him down, said Ronald Knoth, a social worker who helped her during her later years.
