She proposed that social workers help troubled families who might drag down a project.
in the Johnson and Nixon Administrations to coordinate housing policy with other social and poverty programs.
After moving to Chicago for doctoral studies, she instead became a social worker for United Charities.
Mrs. Cosnow, a co-founder of the First Women's Bank in Manhattan, also served in the 1960's as president of Friendly Visitors Inc., a women's volunteer group that provided social and recreational services to inmates of the city's Women's House of Detention in Manhattan.
"Reduction of dependency is the greatest unmet need in social policy today," she once said.
Dr. Bernstein also served as the State Social Services Department's deputy commissioner for income maintenance from 1975-77, under Gov.
"
        An economist, Dr. Bernstein earlier held policy posts in the State Department, worked for charities, was an educator and researched a wide array of social problems.
"
        On leaving government in 1979, she became the director of the Social Policy Research Institute at the New School for Social Research.
"
        On leaving government in 1979, she became the director of the Social Policy Research Institute at the New School for Social Research.
Interested in social work, she first worked with Indian communities in Alaska, then held an executive post at the Y.W.C.A.

        Barbara Redmond Ryan, a volunteer for social causes, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
The interwoven themes of her career were social change, group action, women's rights, health and writing.
She also wrote a history of the American International Association for Economic and Social Development, entitled "The A.I.A.
As a representative, she attended meetings of the Economic and Social Council and was an accredited spokeswoman for the World Union of Progressive Judaism.
Mrs. Toney was born in Manhattan and studied at the New Theater School, Columbia University and the New School for Social Research.
"
        A native of Mount Vernon, N.Y., Dr. Boone graduated from Brooklyn College and earned a master's degree in social sciences at Columbia.
At the time of her death, Mrs. Hartstein was vice president of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue's Women's Club, co-president of AMIT, the national Zionist organization of religious women, and a board member of Re'uth, an international Jewish social service agency based in Israel.
She also taught at Columbia, Hunter College, the University of Vermont, the University of Colorado, the University of Utah, the University of Arkansas and the New School for Social Research.
She was known for her conviction that Shakespeare's writing was "the product of the economic, social and theatrical pressures of his time," as The Independent described it in reporting her death on Saturday.
While living in New York, Mrs. Martenet wrote short fiction pieces, which were published in a variety of magazines, and a well-received novel, "Taw Jameson" (1953), which told of a ruthless game of social climbing in a Southern industrial town.

        Gloria E. Wise, who led a sit-in at a lunch counter in the South in 1960 and became a New York City social work administrator and head of a popular youth program, died on June 7 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
Wise was a city social worker for 31 years and became the director of case management resources at the Spofford Juvenile Center in the Bronx.
After graduating from Bennett she earned a master's degree in social work at Columbia University.
The family changed its name from Romagna to Romania and settled on Fishers Island, N.Y.
        At 19, she became a registered nurse and started out as a social worker in Hartford.
Mrs. Draper was prominent in the Long Island social world for decades.
She served for 10 years as director of the International Center for Social Gerontology in Washington, a post she left 10 years ago.

        Joan Walden Fleischman, a social worker who specialized in working with families with abused or neglected children, died on Monday at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle.
Mrs. Fleischman was a social worker at the Family Life Center of Hackensack Hospital from 1980 to 1985, working with troubled families.
She was later a social worker for the National Institutes of Health.

        Joan Walden Fleischman, a social worker who specialized in working with families with abused or neglected children, died on Monday at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle.
Mrs. Fleischman was a social worker at the Family Life Center of Hackensack Hospital from 1980 to 1985, working with troubled families.
She was later a social worker for the National Institutes of Health.
In those positions, she played a central role in creating several new graduate and research programs dealing with early education theory, child psychology and social policy.
Mrs. Eckart received a master's degree in social work from the University of Texas and co-founded the Community Psychotherapy Center, a nonprofit institution in Dallas.
"
        In 1989 she played her first stage role in English, appearing in the comedy "Social Security" at the Forum Theater in Metuchen, N.J. A year later she recreated her "Crossing Delancey" role on stage.

        Tamara Dembo, a psychologist who developed a method to study anger in social situations, died on Sunday at Memorial Hospital in Worcester, Mass.
In 1948, she became an associate professor at the New School for Social Research in New York and then a research fellow at Harvard University in 1951.
In addition, she was the president of the Doris Duke Foundation, based in Somerville, whose areas of interest have ranged from social and health services to cultural programs.
An eclectic, she drew from ordinary gesture and everyday movement as well as from the technical vocabularies of classical ballet, modern dance and folk and social dance.
Her parents were William C. de Mille, a Broadway playwright and screen writer, and Anna George de Mille, a daughter of Henry George, the social reformer, economist and single-tax advocate.

        Jane G. Judge, who spent five decades as a social worker, educator and child advocate, died on Wednesday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 91.
Appalled that the office was staffed entirely by white social workers trying to serve a mostly black community, she convinced the board of the need to bring in trained black workers.
Born Jane Griswold in Madison, Wis., she was a 1924 graduate of Smith College and held a master's degree from the New York School of Social Work, now part of Columbia University.
Mrs. Harris was a graduate of Mount Holyoke College and the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work.
Mrs. Heineman was a board member of the National Coalition Against Censorship and was a member of the President's Council at the New School for Social Research.
