For Ms. Wasserstein, as for many of her characters and fans, humor was a necessary bulwark against the disappointments of life, and a useful release valve for anger at cultural and social inequities.
''
        Ranging across more than two decades, ''The Heidi Chronicles'' was an episodic, seriocomic biography of an art historian seeking to establish a fixed and fulfilling sense of identity amid the social convolutions of the 1960's and 70's, a period when the rulebook on relationships between men and women was being rewritten.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., then as his widow, then as an avid proselytizer for his vision of racial peace and nonviolent social change, died Monday at a hospital in Mexico.
She was an advocate for women's rights, the struggle against apartheid in South Africa, and other social and political issues.
She went on to lead the effort for a national holiday in his honor and to found the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Non-Violent Social Change in Atlanta, dedicated both to scholarship and to activism.
When Mrs. King announced plans for a memorial in 1969, she envisioned a Lincolnesque tomb, an exhibition hall, the restoration of her husband's childhood home, institutes on nonviolent social change and Afro-American studies, a library building, an archives building and a museum of African-American life and culture.
She envisioned a center that would be a haven for scholars and a training ground for advocates of nonviolent social change.
''I always say, yeah, the cooking is there,'' he said yesterday, ''but the way I remember her is as a woman who was very deeply involved in social issues.

        Betty Friedan, the feminist crusader and author whose searing first book, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ignited the contemporary women's movement in 1963 and as a result permanently transformed the social fabric of the United States and countries around the world, died yesterday, her 85th birthday, at her home in Washington.
It also made her one of the chief architects of the women's liberation movement of the late 1960's and afterward, a sweeping social upheaval that harked back to the suffrage campaigns of the turn of the century and would be called feminism's second wave.
'' Rarely has a single book been responsible for such sweeping, tumultuous and continuing social transformation.
The new society Ms. Friedan proposed, founded on the notion that men and women were created equal, represented such a drastic upending of the prevailing social norms that over the years to come, she would be forced to explain her position again and again.

        Betty Friedan, the feminist crusader and author whose searing first book, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ignited the contemporary women's movement in 1963 and as a result permanently transformed the social fabric of the United States and countries around the world, died Saturday, her 85th birthday, at her home in Washington.
It also made her one of the chief architects of the women's liberation movement of the late 1960's and afterward, a sweeping social upheaval that harked back to the suffrage campaigns of the turn of the century and would be called feminism's second wave.
'' Rarely has a single book been responsible for such sweeping, tumultuous and continuing social transformation.
The new society Ms. Friedan proposed, founded on the notion that men and women were created equal, represented such a drastic upending of the prevailing social norms that over the years to come, she would be forced to explain her position again and again.
In an interview with The New York Times in 2000, Ms. Butler explained the deep appropriateness of her chosen genre as a vehicle for social commentary.
Lewis Mumford, the critic and social historian whom Ms. Jacobs eviscerated in the book, suggested in a review in The New Yorker that she had displayed ''aesthetic philistinism with a vengeance.
In recent years, she became an inspiration to architects and planners who espouse what they call the New Urbanism, an effort to promote social interaction by incorporating such Jacobean features as ground-floor stores in suburban developments.
After London, she lived briefly in New York in the 1960's, then abandoned the crush of the literary world for Rome, where she had a rich social life and entertained lavishly.
''
        She became a social worker, eventually becoming a revered figure in Soweto, known as Ma K, giving advice to women's groups, churches and schools and earning a salary from the social work department of the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg.
''
        She became a social worker, eventually becoming a revered figure in Soweto, known as Ma K, giving advice to women's groups, churches and schools and earning a salary from the social work department of the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg.
In her early days as a social worker, she said, ''Sometimes after sunset I would be going through Orlando Station to go to my home, and it would be dark, and if I saw a group of young men standing there, I just ordered them to take me home.
She also wrote songs about social conditions, including, in the 1940's, the harshness of French colonial rule and the epidemics that ravaged Algeria.
By then, she was teaching social studies at Junior High School 43 in Harlem.
To her, an antique dollhouse was social history in microcosm, offering a meticulous record of the architecture and decorative arts of its era.

        Gloria Jones, whose marriage to the author James Jones placed her at the center of a postwar literary and social world in Paris and the Hamptons and whose own life became the basis of a novel and a movie, died on Friday at her home in Sagaponack, N.Y. She was 78.
Tireless and an eloquent speaker, she was a powerful voice for labor and for social legislation, including Medicare, school spending and civil rights.
When Mr. Clinton awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1999 -- he towered over her as they hugged -- he said, ''A tenacious and effective union activist, she has been a force for social justice and improved labor conditions by working for increases in the minimum wage, health care reform, family and medical leave, and pay equity for women.
A social commentator who liberally used Jamaican patois and made famous the Jamaican catchphrase ''Walk good,'' she brought an overwhelming talent to the stage, radio, television and movies.
Her published verse originated mostly as print or radio journalism, and her monologues often referred to the news, with shrewd social and political commentary.
In 1956 she was appointed drama officer with the Jamaica Social Welfare Commission, then was its director from 1959 to 1963.

        Zelda Foster, a social worker and early leader of the hospice movement who wrote a seminal article in 1965 attacking what she called the ''conspiracy of silence'' facing dying patients in hospitals, died on July 4 at her home in Park Slope, Brooklyn.
In her 1965 article, in the Journal of the National Association of Social Workers, she wrote of her experiences as supervisor of social work at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Brooklyn and of the hospital's efforts to reform its treatment of the terminally ill. For the first time, she wrote, ''the majority of patients were considered capable of understanding the nature of their diseases.
In her 1965 article, in the Journal of the National Association of Social Workers, she wrote of her experiences as supervisor of social work at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Brooklyn and of the hospital's efforts to reform its treatment of the terminally ill. For the first time, she wrote, ''the majority of patients were considered capable of understanding the nature of their diseases.
''
        Dr. Susan Gerbino, a professor at the New York University School of Social Work, said: ''She was way ahead of her time.
Mrs. Foster graduated from Brooklyn College in 1955 and earned a master's degree from the Columbia University School of Social Work three years later.
In May 1966, eight months after Mrs. Foster's article sent ripples through the social work field, an international conference on hospice care was held at the Yale University School of Nursing.
''
        Mrs. Foster taught at the Columbia School of Social Work and was director of mental health for the Children's Aid Society.
hospital from 1959 to 1971, she returned in 1979, serving as chief of social work until her retirement in 1998.
Dr. Gerbino, of N.Y.U., said Mrs. Foster also ''trained hundreds of social workers in leadership for end-of-life care.
And she composed prolifically, often drawn to social, historical and religious themes.

        Dr. Jean Baker Miller, a psychiatrist who disputed traditional notions of social roles and developed a theory that serves as a foundation for treating women's depression and other disorders through the building of fruitful relationships, died on July 29 at her home in Brookline, Mass.
Dr. Miller proposed that social competition helped provoke psychological illness and that the therapist's role was to foster an atmosphere of empathy and acceptance for the patient, even at the cost of the therapist's neutrality.
Dr. Miller, who based her theory on clinical observations, argued that social reinforcement of traditional roles in childhood widened an often artificial division between the sexes, and propelled women into a cycle of anger, guilt and self-punishment.
Judith V. Jordan, a psychologist and the institute's director, said the theory had since been applied in psychiatric hospitals, a women's prison and nonprofit organizations ''to build an increasing sense of trust and connection, and social justice, and to diminish violence and depression.
After graduating, she and Mr. Richards moved to Austin, where she earned a teaching certificate at the University of Texas in 1955 and taught social studies for several years at Fulmore Middle School.
Afterward, Mrs. Lawford and her four children moved to New York, where she took on a busy social schedule, befriended artists and writers and became known as a generous benefactor of the arts.
Afterward, Mrs. Lawford and her four children moved to New York, where she took on a busy social schedule, befriended artists and writers and became known as a generous benefactor of the arts.
When Ms. Levien herself began offering lessons in Duncan's work to younger students, she not only had them learn Duncan's way of moving and her choreography but also wove together classroom exercises with a running commentary on the arts and social issues of Duncan's time and the major influences that helped to shape Duncan's philosophy of movement.
Ms. Levien also began to create her own choreography in the 1930's in dances that, like most modern dance of the time, reflected social concerns.
After college, the couple moved to Austin where she earned a teaching certificate at the University of Texas in 1955 and taught social studies for several years at Fulmore Middle School.
)
        John Walsh, then director of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif., described Ms. Tucker in especially apt terms in a 1993 article in The New York Times: ''There's always been a social conscience in Marcia that's impatient and results in a kind of alertness you can just read across her forehead like a Jenny Holzer sign.
Princess Galitzine's couture collections, shown in a Roman villa, were once praised as the social highlight of the fashion season, and her salon on the Via Veneto was where du Ponts competed with Fords to have first crack at her designs, which often featured a spiral cut.
Back in New York she found work as an understudy in a Broadway show, and her name was removed from the New York Social Register.
After she was released from prison in 1979, however, she was appointed a member of the National People's Congress standing committee, and she devoted herself to social causes.
A newspaper and magazine columnist, movie actress, publisher, writer of radio soap operas, advertising executive and civic fund-raiser, she lived at the center of Manhattan social life, entertaining successive generations of the city's artistic and political elite, first as the wife of the Random House co-founder Bennett Cerf, then as the wife of former Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
A newspaper and magazine columnist, movie actress, publisher, writer of radio soap operas, advertising executive and civic fund-raiser, she lived at the center of Manhattan social life, entertaining successive generations of the city's artistic and political elite, first as the wife of the Random House co-founder Bennett Cerf, then as the wife of former Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
'' To Ms. Willis, each of these was a strand in the contemporary social fabric, and her responsibility as critic was to map out the complex ways in which they interlaced.
Granted, the affair has also produced an outpouring of schlock with no redeeming social value.
