Ms. Freeman's first book, ''Fight Against Fears,'' recounted her own experience as a psychoanalysis patient who struggled to overcome her shy, whispery voice and social fears.
''She enjoyed a popular audience for her work, and she wanted it in her social life, too,'' Ms. Yost said.

        Chesbrough Lewis Patcevitch, a former New York social figure and fund-raiser for charitable causes, died on Dec. 28 in Miami.
She was a member of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee in the 1960's and in later years organized benefits for social causes and political candidates.
In the 1970's, she began to write nonfiction books about feminist issues: ''Man's World, Woman's Place: A Study of Social Mythology'' (Morrow, 1971), ''Between Myth and Morning: Women Awakening'' (Morrow, 1974), ''Powers of the Weak'' (Knopf, 1980) and ''Improper Behavior'' (Morrow, 1987), among others.

        Midori Shimanouchi Lederer, who as founder and president emeritus of Japanese American Social Services Inc. helped provide social services to Asians and Asian-Americans in New York, died on March 9 at her home in Manhattan.

        Midori Shimanouchi Lederer, who as founder and president emeritus of Japanese American Social Services Inc. helped provide social services to Asians and Asian-Americans in New York, died on March 9 at her home in Manhattan.
She attended Cornell College for a year and earned her bachelor's degree in Russian studies at the New School for Social Research.
Theater, she wrote in a 1990 article, ''is finding recognition as an art that contributes to the emotional, intellectual and social development of the child.
Directed by Mike Nichols, with a melancholic soundtrack of songs by Simon and Garfunkel, ''The Graduate'' was hailed as a winning social satire.
''
        In the years after ''60 Minutes,'' Ms. Alexander turned to writing accounts of true crime, which often opened windows onto larger issues like sex roles and social class and, in some cases, onto Ms. Alexander's own life.
Many reviewers praised Ms. Alexander's strong characterizations, eye for detail and ability to capture entire social milieus.

        Nan Kempner, one of New York's most serene hostesses and clotheshorses, a glittering fixture at social events and fashion shows on both sides of the Atlantic for decades, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Returning to St. Anne's College at Oxford, she studied to become a medical social worker, or what the British then called a lady almoner.
Elizabeth Charlene Beine was born in Manhattan on July 4, 1909; her mother was a social worker with the New York Mission Society.
Ms. Beine earned an undergraduate degree from Hunter College and, in 1949, a master's degree from the New York School of Social Work.
When she was 18, she made a speech at local African-American social center that was heard by Clarence W. Blakeslee, a white businessman and philanthropist who sponsored the center.
Growing up in China, Ms. Yard later said, helped set her on her course as a social activist.
After college, Ms. Yard began a career as a social worker but soon realized that politics was a better outlet for her unrelenting energy.

        Ruth Clement Bond, an educator and civic leader who in the mid-1930's, in her first and only foray into quilt design, helped transform the American quilt from a utilitarian bedcovering into a work of avant-garde social commentary, died on Oct. 24 at her daughter's home in Manhattan.
Trained as a hospital social worker, Miss Kellogg blended some of the women and men she met into the story line of her first novel, a sardonic, funny, occasionally biting but mostly tender tale of patients who meet at a hospital, decide to live together, then often quarrel and nag one another.
She next was a publicist in San Francisco, then entered Smith College, where she got a bachelor's in 1952 and a master's a year later, both in social work.

        Débora Arango, a prolific artist who at first repelled socially conservative Colombia with stark paintings of nudes and social conflict but who was later celebrated as one of the country's most inventive, daring artists, died on Dec. 4 at her rambling colonial home outside Medellín.
Despite living amid anti-reform movements, Ms. Arango began to capture social issues in her work, as well as the female body, which she often depicted as corpulent and wrinkled.
Ms. Cohen, a tiny soft-spoken woman, could be a rigorous teacher, but she delighted in presiding graciously over social events.
