
        Edna Morris, prominent in thoroughbred racing and social circles for more than 50 years and a major fund-raiser for the Girl Scouts of Greater New York, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.

        Helen Foster Snow, who helped bring social change to China in the 1930's, witnessed revolution and war and throughout wrote to promote American-Chinese understanding, died on Saturday at the Fowler Nursing Center in Guilford, Conn. She was 89 and lived in Madison, Conn.
Until 1982, she was the housing specialist at the International Center for Social Gerontology in Washington, now the Center for Social Gerontology in Ann Arbor, Mich.
        Mrs. Thompson was born in the Georgetown area of Washington.
Until 1982, she was the housing specialist at the International Center for Social Gerontology in Washington, now the Center for Social Gerontology in Ann Arbor, Mich.
        Mrs. Thompson was born in the Georgetown area of Washington.
In a career in which, in 1921, she became the first woman to teach at the University of Puerto Rico and later established the departments of history and social studies there, Dr. Barbosa became such an authority on Puerto Rican political history, from the movement for autonomy from Spain in the late 19th century to the drive for statehood in the 20th, that she was named the commonwealth's official historian in 1993.
''
        Her father, Jose Celso Barbosa, was the founder of the Puerto Rican statehood movement and the precursor of the New Progressive Party, which has continued to embrace his ideals -- as modified over the years, to be sure, by his daughter, who insisted that the party of statehood also commit itself to social justice.
At The Times, she wrote about beauty and also about the social scene in the 1960's.
'' As she approached the social season of 1938, when she was presented at court, she was still considered an unfashionable country girl.
A Fling With Aly Khan, And Other Romances
        After the war she became a reporter for Lord Beaverbrook's Daily Express and Evening Standard, cabling news about politics, the arts and the social scene from London, New York, Palm Beach, Montego Bay, Paris and the south of France.
In her time, Ms. Halsey, a witty writer with an acute social concern, was compared to Dorothy Parker and H. L. Mencken.
Sharing both his passion for liberal social causes and his commitment to a strong military, Dr. Fosdick became the Senator's alter ego.
She was among the first to document that the likelihood of receiving the death penalty for a murder conviction depended in large part on the race and social status of the victim and the county where the crime took place.
Mrs. Morris honed her social conscience in the turbulent South of the 1950's and 60's, during the early days of school desegregation and of passive civil rights protests that were often met by violence.
During a life in which she was variously a French teacher in Wales, a secretary, a traveling saleswoman, an Olympic sailer, a competitive skier, a pioneer field hockey player, an actress, a sculptor's model and a movie stuntwoman, Ms. Maillart seemed most comfortable on the frontiers of social convention and  Western civilization.
She taught courses on free expression at Queens College of the City University of New York and the New School of Social Research, and wrote and lectured widely on freedom of expression.
Mrs. Clark was also widely known for directing many of the surveys that defined American public opinion during a time of great social and political turmoil in the 1970's, and she was part of the team that introduced exit polls into American politics and journalism.
Born in New York, she attended the Ethical Culture School, Fieldston and the University of Iowa and studied at the drama workshop of the New School for Social Research and the Actors Studio.
In her last years she was ''broke,'' by her own account, living on royalties and Social Security and accepting a $5,000 grant from the Authors League Fund to help pay her hospital bills.

        Dorothy Norman, a photographer, writer, editor, arts patron and advocate for social change, died yesterday at her home in East Hampton, L.I.
She spoke French and German, heard her first opera when she was 10, discovered art at the Barnes Collection and despite the comforts of her life, developed an early sense of social injustice.

        Dorothy Norman, a photographer, writer, editor, arts patron and advocate for social change, died Saturday at her home in East Hampton, L.I.
She spoke French and German, heard her first opera when she was 10, discovered art at the Barnes Collection, and despite those comforts, developed an early sense of social justice.

        Carol Botwin, the author and social critic whose lively and exhaustive writings on sex and infidelity made her one of the leading sexologists of her generation, died yesterday at her apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.

        Joan Mosenthal DeWind, a psychiatric social worker, who raised butterflies and was a founding member of the Xerces Society, an international organization devoted to the conservation of butterflies, moths and other invertebrates, died on Sunday at her home in Sherman, Conn. She was 82.
She graduated from Hunter College and its nursing school and started a career as a nurse and social worker.
She turned to social causes once again with the rise of Fascism in the 1930's and was active in a group that called for an early American declaration of war against the Axis powers.
Within months, she was in the field with the man she and a generation of other young female protegees called Papa Franz and the world knew as Franz Boas, the German-born social scientist widely recognized as the father of American anthropology and the mentor of such giants as Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict.
Although he had laid the foundations for cultural anthropology through his work with Eskimos in the 1880's and later with the Kwakiutl and other Indians of the Pacific Northwest, Boas was persuaded to turn his attention to the Southwest in the early 1920's by his patron, the redoubtable Elsie Clews Parsons, the wealthy, Barnard-trained social worker who had become a force in anthropology after becoming enchanted with the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico.
Among the results were a stream of papers, including a 1927 monograph, ''The Social and Ceremonial Organization of Conchiti.
After the death of her husband in 1935, Miss Goldfrank moved back to Manhattan and made one more important field trip, this this time to Alberta, Canada, which led to other papers, including a 1945 monograph, ''Changing Configurations in the Social Organization of a Blackfoot Tribe During the Reserve Period.
''
        By then her 1940 marriage to Karl A. Wittfogel, a social scientist and former Communist, had altered the focus of her scholarship.
She became a social worker after immigrating to the United States in 1939.
''
        In 1962, when the court was reconfigured as the new Family Court of the State of New York, within the City of New York, with jurisdiction over a range of social problems, she became administrative judge.
Her dedication to legal and social services for the poor was a family heritage: her grandmother, for whom she was named, was one of the first women lawyers in the country and the founder of the National Consumers League, an advocates' group for which Judge Kelley worked.
Her book ''Right From the Start'' (1978), analyzed gender issues as they relate to social justice and child development.
In nearly five years practicing at the Flathead Indian reservation, she realized the medical toll of social and economic ills.
Dr. Keyserling's mother had been a college-trained social worker, and her father was a statistician and vice president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
As a girl growing up in Manhattan and on a farm in Westchester County, Dr. Keyserling weighed the rival parental influences, then blithely chose to follow both at once by becoming an economist specializing in social issues, like the sometimes high prices paid by consumers and the often low wages earned by women.
''
        For all her official accomplishments, Dr. Keyserling may have made her most powerful impact on social policy after she left the Government.
Mrs. Sumii's greatest literary and social accomplishment was ''The River With No Bridge,'' a multivolume novel exploring the humiliations endured by outcasts known as burakumin.
Mrs. Sumii fought all her life for women's rights, for social equality, and in particular for equal opportunities for the burakumin, often called the ''untouchables'' of Japan.
But over all Japan has made enormous strides in the last two decades in improving the social status of the burakumin.
After marrying a writer named Shigeru Inuta, Mrs. Sumii wrote novels and children's stories, campaigned for equal rights and social issues, raised four children, and worked on the family's farm.
Despite the grace of her writing -- which comes through in the one-volume English translation of ''The River With No Bridge,'' published in 1990 by Charles E. Tuttle Co. -- Mrs. Sumii always saw her books as more of a social effort than a literary project.
She had a social flair as well.
She was very concerned that it reflect the diversity of the city and that it be given to women for their achievements and not just for social activities.
''The child is the one who needs to be protected,'' Dr. Munk would often remind her staff of clinical social workers in the Parent-Infant Therapeutic Program at Gouverneur Hospital, an affiliate of the New York University School of Medicine and member of the Health and Hospitals Corporation.
But her team of clinical social workers arranged for Owen and his mother to stay with Owen's grandmother, preserving Owen's caretaking environment and family connection, she said.
She worked with Settlement House helping immigrants in Buffalo, N.Y., and for Jewish Social Services in Cleveland before becoming the first female field agent of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee in 1937.
On certain social questions, Mother Teresa adhered outspokenly to the doctrine of her church.
After she left the Government, she traveled the world as a consultant on population control and family planning and wrote articles for social science journals and a well-received book, with Elizabeth C. Mooney, ''Not My Daughter: Facing Up to Adolescent Pregnancy'' (Prentice-Hall, 1979).
A native of Nyack, N.Y., she graduated from Smith College in 1925 with a degree in sociology and earned a master's degree in social work there.
Starting her career as a social worker in St. Paul, she moved to the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood in Manhattan, and then on to train nurses in the care of the handicapped in Scranton, Pa.
She became the dean of the School of Social Work at Boston University in 1954.
''You'll never get rich as a social worker,'' she told her students.
''My social life always seems to revolve around business,'' she said.
It was an indication of her place in the capital's social firmament that when she married Mr. Dickerson in 1962, a party was given in her honor, hosted by President Lyndon B. Johnson, Justice Arthur Goldberg of the Supreme Court and Senator Abraham Ribicoff of Connecticut.

        Jane Warner Dick, an early social welfare advocate who later served on a United Nations panel, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Lake Forest, Ill. She was 91.
Mrs. Dick's social work began in 1926 with Hull House, founded by Jane Addams in 1889.
She later served on the Illinois Social Welfare Foundation as well as the Illinois Board of Public Welfare, where she established volunteer services for the state's mentally ill.
        Mrs. Dick was active in Democratic politics in Illinois, where she was an early supporter of Adlai Stevenson.
In 1961, Mrs. Dick was appointed as the United States representative to the Social Commission of the United Nations Economic and Social Council by President John F. Kennedy, on the recommendation of Mr. Stevenson, then Ambassador to the United Nations.
In 1961, Mrs. Dick was appointed as the United States representative to the Social Commission of the United Nations Economic and Social Council by President John F. Kennedy, on the recommendation of Mr. Stevenson, then Ambassador to the United Nations.
Her interests were social welfare, education, the judicial process for new immigrants, the language barrier and social adjustment, particularly that of children.
Her interests were social welfare, education, the judicial process for new immigrants, the language barrier and social adjustment, particularly that of children.
She also worked for social service agencies that assisted needy families and their children.
She later said the experience  made her a chain smoker and cost her a social life, three years of sleep and $16,000 in savings.
After her marriage to Mr. Howard in 1964, she was a familiar figure at social events and charity benefits on both coasts.
For all the time she devoted to cats in general and her cats in particular, Miss Katzenbogen managed to live a rich, full and varied life, indulging her passions for expensive clothes, movies and the arts and enjoying an active social life with a wide circle of friends.
For that reason, she said, the character's evolution in the 19th and 20th centuries mirrored shifts in social attitudes toward Jews in Britain and the United States.
Mrs. Hooker was also an active presence on the social scene in both New York and Florida.

        Edna Flannery Kelly, the first woman to represent Brooklyn in Congress and an expert in foreign affairs and social policy, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter in Alexandria, Va. She was 91.
She advocated women's and social issues, drawing attention to inequities in pay, credit and tax policy, including what she considered inadequate deductions for child care.
Dr. Weiner complemented his pioneering studies of their indigenous people by showing the importance of women in structures of authority and social relationships.
She also headed the Louise L. Ottinger Trust, which promoted social change, voter education and women's issues.
There, with Ms. Hubert Allison in the dining room and Mr. Allison in the kitchen, Huberts became one of the signature New York restaurants of the 1980's, a time when New Yorkers were enthusiastically discovering the joys and social possibilities of fine wining and dining.
She always had a vivid emotional response and also a completely dedicated sense of political and social need.
More and more, her work conveyed her political awareness and social consciousness.

        Corinne Roosevelt Alsop Chubb, who helped guide the Victoria Foundation, a family trust that fosters social services, education and the arts in Newark, since its inception in 1934, died on Dec. 9 at her farm in Chester, N.J. She was 85.
After that she was dean of social sciences for her four final years at Hunter.
But Simone Ovide's light skin, good looks, unusual height and haughty demeanor were apparently enough to overcome any social handicaps, and the couple married just after Christmas in 1939.
