In 1975, she received a doctorate in clinical and social psychology from U.C.L.A.

        Linda Stone Davidoff, a civic activist and champion of progressive social causes who ran Elizabeth Holtzman's unsuccessful campaign for the United States Senate in New York in 1980, died on Wednesday in Tucson, Ariz. She was 62.
'' What separated her from the pack, the magazine suggested, was ''an affection for women and a concern for their faces that -- in a field set close with jostling prima donnas, despots, social arbiters and frauds -- are clearly genuine.
Although critics frequently dismissed her books as trite, she kept a solid following among readers and Hollywood producers who found her tales highly satisfying social commentary, if not high literary art.
Her involvement with social issues began in the late 1940's, when she was active in the N.A.A.C.P.
She received a bachelor's degree from Washington University in St. Louis and a master's degree in social work from the University of Illinois at Chicago.
She had been a clinical professor of social work at the University of Iowa since 1993.
She studied administration, planning and social policy at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, receiving a master's degree in international education in 1988.
She came to New York for a year as an exchange teacher of philosophy and German literature at Hunter College while doing graduate work in the social sciences at Columbia.

        Joan McCord, a criminologist who marshaled mountains of evidence to question the effectiveness of social programs championed by both liberals and conservatives, died Tuesday at her home in Narberth, Pa. She was 73.
Her goal was to examine the long-term effects of programs, ranging from individual mentoring programs often favored by conservatives to social work efforts frequently advocated by liberals.
She also said she sensed a fear that solid criticism of one social program might brand all as ineffective.
''That fear, perhaps justified in some quarters, would be like blocking publication of damaging effects of Celebrex, thalidomide, or estrogen because the publication could slow work in disease prevention,'' she wrote in the May 2003 issue of The Annals, the publication of the American Academy of Political and Social Science.
''In her own words, she had wanted to be a social worker if she had not been queen,'' he said.
In one way, she was a social worker.
By many accounts, she helped steer successive governments toward policies promoting social welfare.
In a nationwide television address on Saturday, Prime Minister Balkenende recalled Juliana's fight for social causes and her talent for remaining positive.
She studied at the Art Institute of Chicago and graduated from the Simmons School of Social Work in Boston before moving to New York in 1947.
Others, according to her biographer, Lee Israel, complained that she denied or played down her Jewishness (Ms. Israel said that Mrs. Lauder told one interviewer that she was half Italian and convent-bred), that she was a name-dropper, a social climber, and not entirely loyal.
In 1934, she received a master's degree in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr.
In 1934, she received a master's degree in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr.
Favoring more interactive relations between art and viewers, the Neo-Concretists sought to expand the formal, expressive and social dimensions of art.
Phoebe Brand, as she was known professionally, joined Lee Strasberg and others in 1931 to form the Group Theater, a radical company that dealt with social issues confronting the United States during the Depression.
And she helped to turn thanatology, the study of physical, psychological and social problems associated with dying, into an accepted medical discipline.
Her lectures began to draw standing-room-only audiences of medical and theology students, members of the clergy and social workers -- but few doctors.
''
        The glitter of Mrs. Alsop's social whirl sometimes masked the serious business it facilitated.
Professor Goffen's method paid careful attention to the social and economic context surrounding artists.
''
        Mrs. Hill was born Eunice Elizabeth Barrett on June 28, 1919, in Newton, N.H. A graduate of the University of New Hampshire, she was a social worker for many years.
In the era of Pop and Minimal Art, Ms. Dintenfass was drawn to politically aware figurative painting rooted in the Social Realism of the 1930's.
Limelight was the showcase for a wide variety of photographic styles, from classic straight photography (Ansel Adams, Imogen Cunningham) to social documentary (Brassai, Lisette Model, W. Eugene Smith) and subjective and experimental work (Rudolph Burckhardt, Harry Callahan, Aaron Siskind).
Limelight was the showcase for a wide variety of photographic styles, from classic straight photography (Ansel Adams, Imogen Cunningham) to social documentary (Brassai, Lisette Model, W. Eugene Smith) and subjective and experimental work (Rudolph Burckhardt, Harry Callahan, Aaron Siskind).
Publishers of social studies textbooks would seek her comments, and she was an adviser to North American Muslim student groups.
She was managing editor of The American Journal of Islamic Social Sciences in the early 1990's.
He also gave Miss Markova a governess, who made sure that her charge went to bed early when she was not performing and saw to it that she did not overindulge in chocolates and that she attended no social occasions but chaperoned teas.
In ''AIDS and Its Metaphors'' Ms. Sontag discussed the social implications of the disease, which she viewed as a ''cultural plague'' that had replaced cancer as the modern bearer of stigma.
From her family, she inherited both an interest in writing (her father owned The Athens Morning Journal) and the progressive social conscience that informed much of her work (her maternal grandfather's home had been a stop on the underground railroad).
She insisted that art was not an instrument for social change and, in a post-1960's America highly conscious of racial and sexual identity, her social views tended to be conservative and provincial.
She insisted that art was not an instrument for social change and, in a post-1960's America highly conscious of racial and sexual identity, her social views tended to be conservative and provincial.
