A rebel against social restrictions on women from her youth, she had a tendency to lash out physically at men to prove her point, once throwing a half-plucked partridge at the Labor Party leader Hugh Gaitskill and on another occasion bopping a dinner guest over the head because he asked the woman seated next to him to fetch his dinner from the kitchen.
In addition, before joining the Barnard faculty as an instructor in 1938, she taught at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and was a research assistant at the Yale University Institute of Human Relations, at Columbia, and at the International Institute of Social Research in New York.
They also specialized in the writings of modern composers, publishing works by Cage, Ives and Stravinsky, and social commentators including Ivan Illich and Robert Heilbroner.
I had no social life at all because on weekends I was too tired.
Mrs. Huckaby is survived by a sister, Clara Doyle, of Danville, Calif., and a brother, Clifton Paisley, of Tallahassee, Fla.
        Mrs. Huckaby, who did not consider herself a social crusader, would recall having told Daisy Bates of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Arkansas that ''since my field was education, my immediate goal was having the black children in school as just ordinary children.
At a time of economic distress, when capitalism itself seemed vulnerable to competing currents of social change, if anybody was going to pin Lenin on a capitalist wall it was Diego Rivera, the fiery Mexican muralist whose artistic acclaim was matched only by his reputation as a fiercely committed, if renegade, Communist.
Mrs. Tyng, the mother of Mr. Luce's children, was a leading figure in New York's social and philanthropic circles for several decades.
The young wife hoped that Time's growing success would eventually allow her workaholic husband to join her in the kind of social whirl she loved.
But Ms. Anderson's literary agent, Malaga Baldi of Manhattan, said any infirmities disappeared at a reading the author gave at the New School for Social Research on March 25.
Ms. Tilberis was active on the New York charity social scene, serving as chairwoman of benefits for causes like pediatric AIDS, the New York City Ballet and the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
''
        Ms. Carroll wrote a total of 23 other works, including ''Dunnybrook,'' a social history of 10 generations of farmers in her community.
With Dennis Peron, a longtime comrade and prominent marijuana advocate, she published ''Brownie Mary's Marijuana Cookbook and Dennis Peron's Recipe for Social Change,'' which did not include the brownie recipe.
John Ruskin (1819-1900) was a British social theorist and critic whose wife, Effie, fell in love with Millais.
Born in St. Louis, she graduated with a degree in psychology from  Washington University, then received a master's in social work.
She supported its training branch, the Selig Educational Institute, and the Center for the Study of Social Work Practice, a joint undertaking with Columbia.
''
        Though capable of a passion for social justice, she sometimes irritated the city's progressive circles with her skepticism about any government's abilities to keep fallible citizens up to some moral mark.
Mrs. Kryzak also helped organize groups of the elderly throughout New York State to lobby for a state-financed pharmaceutical plan to assist in paying for prescription drugs, worked to eliminate mandatory retirement laws and was vocal on increasing state supplements for Social Security.
''
        In Lang's stark cinema of social injustice, the film historian David Thomson wrote, the actress ''caught exactly the fragile happiness allowed in Lang's world and played with a restraint that perfectly matched the fatal simplicity of the plots.
Dr. Allen came to social and political activism as a young woman, organizing farm workers on the West Coast and writing pamphlets for the American Federation of Labor in Washington.
She also started a program that trained social workers in skin care and makeup so that they could help the visually impaired apply cosmetics.
She worked for several years as a community worker for the Ministry of Social Development and Planning.
Ms. Fleming lived a colorful life, partly because she was born into a family with both pronounced creative abilities and strong social connections, but also because of her own musical abilities, which drew her into the orbits of the pianist Artur Schnabel, the violinist Joseph Szigeti, the cellists Pierre Fournier and Pablo Casals, the conductor Sir John Barbirolli and the guitarists Julian Bream and John Williams.
The 1920's and 30's saw an artistic and literary flowering in Harlem and an outpouring of social criticism examining the position of blacks in American society.
She supported a student strike there, then went to New York to study at the New School for Social Research under a scholarship from the Urban League.
In 1945 she married Albert William Levi Jr., her second husband and a social scientist who was invited that year to join the faculty of the experimental Black Mountain College, near Asheville, N.C. Black Mountain was a short-lived laboratory for innovative teaching and art whose faculty and students included Josef and Anni Albers, John Cage, Merce Cunningham, David Tudor, Robert Rauschenberg and Charles Olson.
Ms. Richards's books, which often mixed prose and poetry, included ''The Crossing Point'' (1973), ''Opening Our Moral Eye'' (1996), ''Imagine Inventing Yellow'' (1991) and ''Toward Wholeness: Rudolf Steiner Education in America,'' a work of social philosophy.
Miss Garland was also trained as an elementary school teacher at the Maxwell Training School in Brooklyn and like her parents, she was active in social and political causes.
Ms. de Lima burst upon the New York literary scene in 1950 with ''Captain's Beach,'' the first published novel to come out of the editor Hiram Haydn's prestigious workshop at the New School for Social Research.
The two immigrated to the United States and founded the Dramatic Workshop at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan.
Her main interests were in social and public health and psychiatry, and she continued to write about them to the end.
