The poet Maxine Kumin, a member of that first group of scholars, remembers her two years at the institute as an ''amazing'' experience, with a diverse group of artists, scientists, social scientists and poets, ''with Polly Bunting as our ringmaster.

        Dorothy Hart Hirshon, a glamorous figure in New York society from the 1920's through the 40's who later became active in social, human rights and political causes, died Thursday in an automobile accident while driving near her home in Glen Cove, on Long Island.
She supported Franklin D. Roosevelt and embraced his proposals for social welfare.
Although she participated in a number of social projects throughout her life, raising money to build a nursery school in Harlem, for instance, and serving as a guidance counselor at the Downtown Community School in the 1940's, she became more involved in philanthropic and community activities in the last 40 years.
She was also on the board of Phoenix House and was a trustee of the New School for Social Research until her death.
Social'' in 1948, ''A Majority of One'' in 1959 and ''Enter Laughing'' in 1963.
''
        As she became increasingly active, she shared speakers' platforms with Jane Addams, the founder of Hull House in Chicago; worked in St. Louis with a social welfare agency, and taught at a cooperative farming community in Arkansas.
Professor Cook's career spanned five spheres: social work, labor organization, labor education, foreign service and the academy.
She set forth that approach in more than 10 books and other writings, beginning with the 1946 classic, ''Changing the Curriculum: A Social Process'' (Appleton).
Her concern was that too many American children were growing up without a clue to their country's social and racial diversity.
In the book ''More Than Social Studies'' (Prentice-Hall, 1957) she coined the term ''social educator,'' whose classroom becomes ''a particular setting in which children can experience democratic living.
Ms. Gellhorn's father was a doctor in St. Louis with progressive notions and her mother, whom she adored, was a suffragist and social reformer who sometimes took her daughter  with her to rallies and protests.
Rail-thin, exotically featured and crowned with a lion's mane of hair that gave her the look of a space-age Nefertiti, Chesbrough (Chessy) Lewis Hall was born in 1931 in Perrysburg, Ohio, into a privileged world where little was expected of a young woman except a fairy tale debut, a comfortable marriage and an entry in the Social Register.
The only child of Richard Hall and Chesbrough Lewis, a cafe society beauty famously photographed by Horst and Avedon, she dutifully followed her social destiny: finishing school, Briarcliff Junior College and candle-lighted wedding at St. Thomas Protestant Episcopal Church in Manhattan, in 1952, to William P. Rayner, a stockbroker who later became an executive at Conde Nast Publications.
For the rest of her life, she was one of the best-dressed and most-photographed fixtures of the Manhattan social scene.
But rather than idling indefinitely in the social spotlight, Mrs. Rayner  went to work for Ladies Home Journal, moved to Glamour, and then became a fashion editor at Vogue from 1956 to 1964.
But for all the economic hardship and social stigma, she not only made the best of it; she also took notes.
By the early 1930's she was working in a Social Realist style that with adjustments would be the mainstay of her work.
Ms. Harmon's art could lean toward social satire similar to Philip Evergood's, or scenes of poetic introspection, like some of Philip Guston's early works.
She enjoyed both giving and going to parties and, as an avid amateur photographer, almost always had a small camera slung around her neck at the many social occasions in which she took part.
The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Dr. Wakin, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., moved to California as a teen-ager, beginning her college studies at the University of California at Los Angeles before completing her undergraduate studies at the New School for Social Research in New York.

        Kay Coltoff, a social worker and educator who used her own illness to make things easier for breast cancer survivors, died on March 5 at her home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. She was 61 and had been a professional-development counselor at Hunter College.
In a career in which she worked as a social worker at hospitals, community centers and drug treatment programs before turning to teaching, Mrs. Coltoff, a native of Mount Vernon, N.Y., who graduated from Emerson College and received her master's in social work from Adelphi University, may have done her most inspired work simply because she developed breast cancer in 1981.
In a career in which she worked as a social worker at hospitals, community centers and drug treatment programs before turning to teaching, Mrs. Coltoff, a native of Mount Vernon, N.Y., who graduated from Emerson College and received her master's in social work from Adelphi University, may have done her most inspired work simply because she developed breast cancer in 1981.
Mrs. Whitney was one of the most prestigious figures in New York society, although she disliked publicity and rarely attended large social gatherings.
'' The social skills that she learned at Miss May's, a private day school in Boston, and at the Westover School in Middlebury, Conn., were burnished by her mother, who made certain that her daughters excelled in the arts of entertaining and running a household as prerequisites for the advantageous marriages she was determined they would have.
Five hundred leaders of the social and political worlds of Boston and New York watched the bride, in a floor-length gown of silver lame, exchange vows with the son of the Governor of New York and his wife.
''The two women were simply too strong and too different in personal style and social preferences,'' Mr. Grafton wrote.
The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Dr. Wakin, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., moved to California as a teen-ager, beginning her college studies at the University of California at Los Angeles before completing her undergraduate studies at the New School for Social Research in New York.
''I feel detached in social situations.
She immediately threw herself into the issues that consumed her, introducing a bill to tighten regulations on nursery schools and providers of child care; fighting the Government's attempt to stop paying social security benefits to unwed mothers, and working to insure that abandoned wives could obtain financial support from their husbands.

        Felicie Young Cormier and Marie-Louise Febronie Meilleur, who lived through more tumultuous history, saw more social and technological change and endured more late-life congratulations than any two people known to be alive, died within two days of each other this week, ending their rival reigns as the world's oldest living person.
The couple opened a building for 19 families with a day care center and access to social services in 1991.
in 1975 from the State University Health Science Center in Stony Brook, N.Y..
        She held a master's degree in public health from Columbia, and she studied sociology at the University of Edinburgh and social medicine at the Hadassah Medical School in Jerusalem.
The social implications of Ms. Skelly's work were apparent in a study of younger Americans she and Mr. Yankelovich conducted in the late 1960's, among the first to call them baby boomers.
She was a graduate of Hunter College, where her senior honors paper in social psychology, based on a public opinion survey of a Y.W.H.A.
Throughout her professional life, she worked to widen the applications of psychoanalytic theory to study and tackle social problems.
A past vice president of the American Psychiatric Association, she won international recognition for her work in community and social psychiatry, child psychiatry and adoption.
In an association with Columbia University that spanned five decades, she founded its Division of Community and Social Psychiatry and directed it from 1956 to 1969.
The author of about 100 papers and several books, she recently finished her latest article on the relevance of psychiatry and psychoanalysis in social contexts,  said Kathleen L. Kelly, an executor.
Dr. Bernard's writings also addressed topics like children and adolescents and their position in family, community and the law; mental health and the schools; community and social psychiatry and training, and the dynamics of psychiatry among the poor, particularly among minorities.
The teams she envisioned were led by doctors and experienced nurses who coordinated the work of physical and occupational therapists, social workers and others.
She attended Hunter College High School and Hunter College, where she specialized in history and the social sciences, earning a B.A.
Then, too, Mrs. Mudd was the only wife and mother among the academics and social work specialists who met at the Mudds' home to plan the marriage council.
It certainly would have been hard to find anyone more dedicated to social change and human improvement.
Working part time until she obtained a master's in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Mudd, who eventually received her doctorate there, became the council's full-time executive director in 1936 and held the post until her retirement in 1967.
For many years, most of her designs were sold in this country to Rockefellers, DuPonts and scores of other clients with  social names, many at private showings.
She graduated from Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, was an actress in Canada and studied drama at the New School for Social Research, in Manhattan.
British readers have not seemed to be able to get enough of Dame Catherine's gritty tales of family conflict, social despair and the debilitating effects of deprivation.
She received a bachelor's degree in education from the University of Cincinnati in 1932 and a master's in social work from the University of Pennsylvania in 1935.
For Mrs. Whaley, an accomplished pianist and ballroom dancer who helped start the Cotillion, a dancing school that has become a Charleston social fixture, and once taught chess, gardening came more than naturally.
Her experiences, which became a case study for the Harvard Business School, exemplified how someone involved in social entrepreneurship could overcome  great odds.

        Chana Timoner, a onetime housewife with such a passionate devotion to tradition and social justice that she became first a rabbi and then the first Jewish woman to serve as a full-time Army chaplain, died on Monday at her home in New Haven.
She derived enormous delight a few years ago when she received a proposal from an admirer at her Hartford retirement community on the very day the Social Security Administration notified her that she had died -- as, it turned out, another Mildred Smith had done.
In a review in The New York Times, Peter Bricklebank said the works possessed ''understated eloquence,'' with characters who are ''prisoners of their own solitude, shackled by social expectations.
Brearley had made social history by welcoming Jewish students as early as the 1880's, but Miss Mitchell promptly advanced its commitment to social diversity by recruiting its first black students, an effort aided by a Rockefeller Foundation grant to provide scholarships for needy minority students.
Brearley had made social history by welcoming Jewish students as early as the 1880's, but Miss Mitchell promptly advanced its commitment to social diversity by recruiting its first black students, an effort aided by a Rockefeller Foundation grant to provide scholarships for needy minority students.
Following his style, she collected anecdotes and how-to case histories for a book she wrote, ''How to Help Your Husband Get Ahead in his Social and Business Life,'' published in 1953.
In her roles as the wife of a public figure and in her own brief time in the Senate, Muriel Humphrey supported the social programs that her husband championed.
In her roles as the wife of a public figure and in her own brief time in the Senate, Muriel Humphrey supported the social programs that her husband championed.
Had they been aware of her record of ad hoc social activism, her superiors might have had second thoughts about relegating Dr. Butler, a small woman with a will of steel, to children's literature, a course so scorned by the Connecticut English faculty that it was known derisively as ''kiddie lit.
While it continues for Dr. Rosenbloom, a retired professor at the Hunter School of Social Work who lives in Manhattan, the story has now ended for Mrs. Rosenberg, and with satisfying flair.
Her death on Sept. 11 at her apartment in Manhattan -- at the age of 85, in her own bed, after a long, peaceful retirement and a distinguished career as an assistant professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work -- was a triumphant flick of her hand, almost six decades coming, to the German soldiers who had arrived in the small city of Kolomyja in eastern Poland (now Ukraine) on July 3, 1941, and tacked up posters that declared in three languages, ''Death to All Jews.
She taught at Cooper Union, the New School for Social Research, New York University and the City College of New York and gave private lessons.
Not surprisingly, perhaps, four of Mrs. Lukens's children grew up to go into some form of social work: her oldest son, Mark, is a minister in East Rockaway, N.Y.; Jonathan of Carmel, N.Y., and her daughter, Margaret Byrne, of Orangeburg, N.Y., are clinical social workers and Daniel, of Congers, N.Y., is his mother's successor as executive director of Camp Venture.
Not surprisingly, perhaps, four of Mrs. Lukens's children grew up to go into some form of social work: her oldest son, Mark, is a minister in East Rockaway, N.Y.; Jonathan of Carmel, N.Y., and her daughter, Margaret Byrne, of Orangeburg, N.Y., are clinical social workers and Daniel, of Congers, N.Y., is his mother's successor as executive director of Camp Venture.
Overcoming social opprobrium, she operated the school for eight years.
A native of Newark, she received a bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University and later studied social work at Columbia.
Mrs. Stradtner never had much money, and so to supplement the dog and cat food she bought with her Social Security money she would take jobs working in catering halls, even when she was getting on in years, so she could scoop up the scraps and bring them to her strays in the graveyards.
And after she fed them, she would spend the next day making the rounds of veterinarians, imploring their help to neuter the dogs and cats  (they usually charged her reduced fees, which she paid with the money from her modest Social Security check).
The California-born daughter of a Japanese farmer and an aspiring Japanese social worker, Miss Fujikawa was among the first illustrators to command royalties rather than a flat fee.
