Although Miss Steloff sold the Gotham in 1967 to Andreas Brown, another book lover, she continued to live in an apartment on the third floor, above the store, and remained as a working consultant.
'' Sold Flowers in Hotels
        Ida Frances Steloff was born Dec. 31, 1887, in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., a town full of gaiety in the summer and a bleak, wintry place for the rest of the year, especially for the poor.
When Miss Stefloff was little, she sold flowers on the verandas of the big hotels.
'' 'I Lose Myself in the Plot'
        Long after the novel's international success, Miss du Maurier said she could never understand why it had become an instant favorite that eventually sold over a million hardcover copies.
She bought Mr. Arnaz's share of Desilu Productions in 1962 with a $3 million bank loan, and she sold the company to Gulf and Western Industries in 1967 for $17 million.
Of a school production of ''Charley's Aunt,'' she said, ''I played the lead, directed it, cast it, sold tickets, printed the posters and hauled in furniture for props.
He later sold the rights to CBS, allowing the couple's production company, Desilu, to buy a studio, the former RKO lot where Miss Ball's film career had languished and where they had met in 1940 while appearing together in ''Too Many Girls.
Miss Misora released 1,200 songs and sold 68 million records, including 45 million singles.
'' The book has sold more than 34 million copies in 31 languages.
When she returned to New York to conduct the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra in 1975, her single scheduled concert sold out so quickly that a second was added.
Forty years later Mrs. Payson's son, John Whitney Payson, sold the painting at Sotheby's in New York for $53.9 million - the highest price ever paid for an artwork at auction.
Mrs. Messmore designed and sold beaded cashmere sweaters for 20 years through her company, Messmore Originals.
She sold it in 1976 to Rupert Murdoch, who sold it in 1988 to Peter S. Kalikow.
She sold it in 1976 to Rupert Murdoch, who sold it in 1988 to Peter S. Kalikow.
The publisher married the editor the next year, and while she was involved in buying radio and television stations, which were eventually sold, The Post under Mr. Thackrey was building circulation and cutting its losses.
''It was not sold for 'estate purposes.
With Olga designing and her husband directing the business, the Olga Company reached a volume of $67 million when it was sold to Warnaco in 1984.
When her mother Gussie, who had been running the factory, died in 1974, Mrs. Kahn operated it until 1982, when she sold it and retired.
The company was sold in 1986 to Transwestern Publishing, a division of U.S. West, a California-based utility.
