She made her formal debut at Town Hall in Manhattan later that year, on Nov.  19, in a widely anticipated event that was sold out more than a week in advance.
The book sold more than two million copies and was made into a well-received film in 1992 by Jean-Jacques Annaud.
In 1988, after her previous five books had sold more than 15 million copies,  she signed a three-book contract with Harper & Row valued by publishing experts  at $12 million.
The book, which has sold millions of copies and has been translated into more than 20 languages, has inspired critical studies, a string  of sequels and the 1964 Walt Disney movie musical, starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke.
"
        Shortly after The Voice's founders sold it in the mid-1970's, a new editor dismissed Ms. Nichols.
She sold her first treatment, which was made into the 1979 movie "And Baby Makes Six," with Colleen Dewhurst.
She worked there until Mr. Solomon sold the business in 1992.
Five years earlier, Mr. Granz had sold Verve records to MGM, and when her contract came up for renewal in 1966, she was not re-signed to the label, but Mr. Granz moved her to Capitol, where her producer,  Dave Dexter, promised to give her "a totally different sound.
The maps were an instant success, and have sold countless millions of copies since, the favorite of visitors and Londoners alike, including the cab drivers and others whose job it is to make their way around the city.
After that building was sold to the General Motors Corporation, she balked at a shop she was offered downstairs in the plaza of the new building to be built on the site, saying, ''Martha's customers never shop in cellars.
In 1978, Entenmann's was sold to Warner-Lambert, the pharmaceutical company, for $233 million, and in 1982 to General Foods for $315 million.
Late in life, even after nearly all her family's stock in the Waldbaum's supermarkets was sold to the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company in 1986, Mrs. Waldbaum  liked to keep an eye on the stores.
In the 1960's, her picture appeared on almost all of the 400 food products sold under the Waldbaum's label, along with recipes she had tested in her own kitchen.
More than 20 million Curious George books have been sold in 12 languages.
Rights to the book, which was selected as a Literary Guild featured alternate, were also recently sold for German, British and Dutch publication.
The woman, V. C. Andrews, soon sent along a manuscript, which Ms. Diamant liked and sold to the Pocket Books division of Simon & Schuster.
The book, "Flowers in the Attic," has sold millions of copies worldwide and led to Ms. Andrews's fame.
