The company was sold in 1967 to Air Products and Chemicals Inc. and, in 1978, to the Puritan-Bennett Corporation.
The Slesingers gave up management of the camp in the early 1930's, and the camp was later sold.
The store was later sold.
They sold it and bought a house near Stamford, Conn., which they also named Hillandale.

       Josephine Blair Hughes, a super-saleswoman who sold high-fashion clothes to socially prominent women for four decades, died on Monday in her apartment in Manhattan.
Josephine Blair Hughes, a super-saleswoman who sold high-fashion clothes to socially prominent women for four decades, died on Monday in her apartment in Manhattan.
The business was sold to Arnold Bakeries in 1985.
She was wealthy, both from her Hollywood salaries and her husbands, but in later years she sold many costly artworks at auction, including her collection of Impressionist art, which was sold in 1979 for $2.9 million.
She was wealthy, both from her Hollywood salaries and her husbands, but in later years she sold many costly artworks at auction, including her collection of Impressionist art, which was sold in 1979 for $2.9 million.
Coincidentally, more than 20 items in her extensive jewelry collection are being sold today as part of an auction at Sotheby's in New York.
They sold it to Joseph Holland in 1988 but maintained close ties with it.
She sold the articles to The Washington Star.
The couple divorced in 1966; the station was sold to WGN Continental Broadcasting Company two years later.
Miss Christy's first recording with the Kenton band, ''Tampico,'' was released in May 1945 and sold a million copies.
Her store, established a few months after her arrival in New York, originally sold china and silver but evolved later into a retail jewelry business.
In 1982 her collection of rare gold and enameled boxes, scented flasks and snuff boxes, including items that once belonged to Louis XV, was sold at auction by Christie's.
Her company, which was sold two years ago to two New York businessmen, has created more than 5,000 different dolls at its factory in on West 131st Street in Harlem, where it has about 600 employees and is one of the area's largest employers.
By 1985, she said her collection was up to 14,000 volumes, even though she had just sold her substantial library of wine books.
