She also made lemon and cinnamon lollipops, which she sold for a penny a piece.
Called ''Delany's Delights,'' it was soon sold all over New York, including Abraham & Straus, at $2 a pound.
''We've only sold two Monicas.
If we sold three I'd be surprised.

        Vera Tolstoy, a Russian refugee who became a teen-age bride in Czechoslovakia, worked as a hairdresser in Prague, sang Gypsy songs in Paris, sold perfume in New York and spent 25 years with the Voice of America in Washington, died on Monday at her retirement home in New Smyrna Beach, Fla. She was 96 and the last living link to her grandfather Leo Tolstoy.
''The Little Train That Won a Medal'' was published in 1947 and has sold more than three million copies.
The profits from the sale of Mrs. Meserve's holly patents helped to  maintain her estate, which came to be called Holly-by-Golly, and her plants are sold by commercial growers throughout the world.
Her designs are sold as kits, and she wrote two popular instruction books on the art: ''Sylvia Sidney's Needlepoint Book'' (1968) and ''The Sylvia Sidney Question and Answer Book on Needlepoint'' (1975).
Ms. Rubinstein, a niece of the company's founder, Helena Rubinstein, lived in Manhattan and Westhampton, N.Y.
        She moved from Poland to Paris at age 18 to learn the business from her aunt and worked at the company from the 1920's until the 1970's, when it was sold.
Her new glasses were initially rejected by the major manufacturers, but Mrs. Miranda allied herself with a stylish optical shop, Lugene, on Madison Avenue, where one of the first pairs was sold to the writer Clare Boothe Luce.
In the mid-1940's Mrs. Miranda sold her eyeglass interests and moved to Los Angeles.
It was sold in 1978 and went out of business about 10 years ago.
She began working for the independent Vanguard full time in the early 1930's and was its president from 1952 until it was sold to Random House in 1988, when it was 62 years old.
After it was sold, she retired.
The couple built their empire to 500 studios by the time they sold the business.
Thousands more had been sold previously to dealers around the country.
The book sold few copies, but it sufficed to identify her as a ''new novelist.

        Jessie Lee Brown Foveaux, who sold her first book for $1 million when she was 98, died on Saturday in a hospital in Duluth, Minn., where she was vacationing with her daughter.
''We estimated that for every complete Pictionary we gave away, we sold between 5 and 12 more,'' he said.
Among her ideas was to sell it in sporting goods stores rather than toy stores, where board games are traditionally sold.
She sold fruit in the streets and worked as a seamstress before she began to perform as a tango dancer.
Andrew Farkas, co-author with Enrico Caruso Jr. of ''Enrico Caruso: My Father and My Family'' (Amadeus Press, 1990), said that Ms. Murray's paintings were ''of good quality, although she sold very few.
In 1928, a court in Trenton had ruled that Gloria Caruso was entitled to two-thirds of the royalties on her father's phonograph records, sold by the Victor Talking Machine Company.
Miss Lloyd-Jones attended art schools in Lausanne, Switzerland, and Munich, where she sold sweaters of her own design to a local shop for pocket money.
