Published by W. W. Norton & Company, the book had sold more than three million copies by the year 2000 and has been translated into many languages.
Published by W. W. Norton & Company, the book had sold more than three million copies by the year 2000 and has been translated into many languages.
Translated into 10 languages, her books have sold more than a million copies altogether, Ms. Heifetz said.
But by 1990, with back taxes looming, she sold the theater to a Texas developer, and her company essentially ceased to exist.
It has been translated into 14 languages and has sold more than 35 million copies worldwide, according to the company's Web site.
On a family trip to Hollywood in 1940, she barged into Bing Crosby's studio and sold him a song, ''Lone Star Trail,'' which he recorded.
She sold a series of articles about different areas of the city, like the fur district, to Vogue, earning $40 for each at a time when she was making $12 a week as a secretary.
The Klan organized a boycott against the stockyard where she sold cattle, forcing it to close, and she was compelled to resign from posts at the First United Methodist Church.
In May 2004, the contents of the museum were sold at auction for about $1.4 million.
Her father sold textiles and her mother was a homemaker.
The Jamaican government had refused to grant duty concessions for costly drugs he needed, and they sold their home and possessions to make the move.
She took a night job as a teletype operator with Western Union and also sold Christmas cards.
The building has since been sold, her son said, and the plaque is now gone.
      
It was the first time the hall had ever been sold out for a program of German lieder.
''
        Published originally by Dodd, Mead & Company and most recently in 2002 by Simon & Schuster, ''Seventeenth Summer'' has sold more than a million copies worldwide, according to the reference book Authors and Artists for Young Adults.
After graduating from the University of California at Los Angeles, where she studied English, she opened a dress shop where she sold her own designs.
She sold the shop and moved to New York, but hated it and moved to Chicago, where a friend suggested she might find design work at Playboy.
After hearing Ms. Bergner's tale, Ms. Orr wrote it up and sold it to Cosmopolitan for $800.
''
        Ms. Tompkins, who for deeply held reasons of her own refused to sign documents, rarely sold her work.
Ms. Gibbs recorded three singles that sold more than a million copies each: ''Kiss of Fire,'' which reached No.
