After Parsons, she traveled widely and returned awed by history and historical designs, bringing back a trove of collector's pieces that she sold at her first shop, The Leogryph, which she opened near the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1965.
Although Ms. Norton's subsequent books for Ace sold in the hundreds of thousands, she found herself the victim of a Catch-22: critics of science fiction did not take her seriously because she was considered a juvenile writer and critics of children's literature dismissed her because she wrote science fiction.
''Geraldine had a vision of the kind of store she wanted to create,'' said Jean Rosenberg, who was the vice president and merchandising director at Bendel's from six months before Ms. Stutz's arrival in 1957 to their joint departure in 1986, after the store was sold to The Limited.
Ms. Stutz put her knowledge to practical use when she went to work for several footwear manufacturers, including I. Miller, the company for which Andy Warhol designed advertisements, after it was sold to the conglomerate Genesco.
Five years later she sold her interest, and worked as a publisher with Random House, overseeing books on Andy Warhol and Elsie de Wolfe.
She graduated from Vassar in 1939, and in the late 1940's she and a friend, Dottie Noyes, owned a New York furniture store, New Design, that sold contemporary creations by the Eameses, Saarinen and Aalto.
Goodbar,'' the fourth of Ms. Rossner's 10 novels, sold four million copies and in 1977 became a popular movie starring Diane Keaton.
Goodbar'' was sold for $300,000 as a paperback and for $250,000 as a movie, making her financially independent.
Mr. Malkin, who sold AB in 1972, died in 1986.
In 1983, when she wanted $25 million to provide an ambulatory care center at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, she sold 15 of her French Impressionist paintings, including works by Gauguin, Cézanne, Renoir and van Gogh, to her brother, Walter H. Annenberg, the publisher, philanthropist and former ambassador to Britain.
