Every season since the series began, Ms. Krainik proudly reported, was entirely sold out.
''
        Mrs. Harriman sold some property as well as a Picasso, a Matisse and a Renoir during that time.
'' The book sold 600,000 copies.
She sold her Lucy Kroll Agency in late 1994 to Barbara Hogenson, an associate, but had kept a residence and office on the Upper West Side of Manhattan until last spring.
14 on the pop chart in 1954 and eventually sold a million copies.
''Jim Dandy,'' released in 1957, sold a million copies; other rhythm-and-blues hits included ''Bop Ting-a-Ling,'' ''Play It Fair,'' ''Jim Dandy Got Married'' and ''Voodoo Voodoo.
She gave some of the hottest names of the swinging 1960's boutiques in the store, and among the labels sold there were Norman Norell, James Galanos, Donald Brooks, Geoffrey Beene, Pauline Trigere and Rudi Gernreich.
Early on, she sold 14 hotels left by her husband, keeping only the Stanhope, because, she said, ''We built it together, and we raised it like a pet.
But ''The Street,'' which sold 1.5 million copies, gave Mrs. Petry the wherewithal to retreat back to Old Saybrook, where she and her husband settled in a 200-year-old sea captain's house and got an unlisted telephone number.
In 1950 the family sold the newspaper to Scripps-Howard, which merged it to create The World-Telegram and Sun.
''
        Even after the league folded in the mid-1970's and Mr. Seltzer's son, Jerry, sold the name Roller Derby to other promoters, Miss Weston continued her devotion to her sport, training skaters and staging exhibition games at a Hayward track.
One closely watched sale she arranged was the house at 19 Gramercy Park, which sold for $1.5 million in 1979.

        Sue Sumii, a fiery human rights campaigner whose landmark novel sold 8.3 million copies and helped change attitudes toward Japan's ''untouchables,'' died last Monday.
Brilliant, her only survivor, said that in 1984, deciding that it was time for a change and responding to a good offer, they sold La Chansonette, which became a restaurant under another name.
There she sold the designs of Emanuel Ungaro, Valentino, Krizia, Oscar de la Renta, Scaasi and Franco Moschino, among others.
The company made costume jewelry that was sold at the Hattie Carnegie salon in New York and at department and specialty stores around the country.
By then the book that inspired it had sold well over a million copies.
Since then, largely because of Dr. Miller's efforts, Peale and the artistic dynasty he established have enjoyed something of a renaissance, one that was underscored in 1986 when a painting by Rembrandt Peale sold for $4 million.
Guide, The Daily Racing Form and Seventeen Magazine -- were sold to Rupert Murdoch for $3 billion in 1988.
By 1978, Ms. Steel had ended a 10-month marriage, sold her business to her ex-husband and asked Mr. Davidoff to place a call to his friend Mr. Katzenberg about a marketing job for her at Paramount.
''She got Giant to use open dating -- putting a date by which products like yogurt or milk must be sold.
''
        In the 1940's, after a disastrous season in which all her vegetables died, Mrs. Simmons concentrated on raising herbs, which she sold as live plants and in dried form.
