She had designed it in 1971 for John Alford, a New Jersey businessman, who sold it to Nixon in 1981.
When she retired in 1989 most of the assets of her company were sold and became a division of Kefco Industries.
Heinz sold the business to a European investment company in 1999.
Jean Nidetch wrote ''Weight Watchers Program Cookbook,'' which sold millions of copies.
In her later years, she sold real estate and insurance and participated in events honoring the pioneers of aviation.
Last year she sold at auction a silver pillbox once owned by her friend Marilyn Monroe.
She retired from The Writer in 2000 and sold the company to Kalmbach Publishing, which continues to publish the magazines and related books.
'' It was sold in 1993 as a unit to Paramount Inc., then the parent of Simon & Schuster, and most of the imprints were eliminated.
Then a Hereford couple donated their 6,000-square-foot house to hold the collection, which had expanded from bandannas and a few pistols to treasures like the red, white and blue rhinestone hat owned by an early Western music star, Patsy Montana, a yodeler whose recording of ''I Want to Be a Cowboy's Sweetheart'' sold a million copies.
Eventually as many as 3 million copies were sold, published reports said.
In 1994 she sold it to the French company Pochet.
She went to Louis B. Mayer, the head of the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studio, and sold him the property on the condition that she play the lead.
''She can barely move and she'll say to me, 'You know, you sold me my trousseau.
She sold the magazine to CBS Publications in 1972.
The last was at Kitty Kelly Inc., which sold shoes and other merchandise.
In France the last two parts of her three-part autobiography, ''The Land Unknown'' (1975), and ''The Lion's Mouth'' (1977), sold briskly as ''Le Royaume Inconnu'' (1978), and ''La Gueule du Lion'' (1987), and she became a commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres in 2000.
It was a plum for any model, since, for starters, it put her name and face in every store in New York that sold beer.
Recently Mrs. Bronander sold two $1 million houses, and most years she has had more than $3 million in sales; for three years she has won the silver award from the New Jersey Association of Realtors: 20 properties sold for a total of $7.5 million.
Recently Mrs. Bronander sold two $1 million houses, and most years she has had more than $3 million in sales; for three years she has won the silver award from the New Jersey Association of Realtors: 20 properties sold for a total of $7.5 million.
After he died in 1984, she was active in managing the club until it was sold in 1990.
Until her death, Mrs. Deane was chairwoman of the Tobe Report, a weekly newsletter sold to retailers, where she had worked since the early 1960's.
She became fashion coordinator for all the shoes sold by Genesco's shoe-making subsidiary, I. Miller, to Sears, Miller's No.
Three and a half years later, Ms. Evans became president of Butterick Fashion Marketing, makers of zippers and sewing patterns sold under the Butterick and Vogue names; its corporate parent was American Can.
Meanwhile, her books sold well and received good reviews.
Three years ago, the Sebastiani family sold its Central Valley winemaking operations and six wine brands for $295 million.
Last year, her store was sold to the May Department Store Company.
