Her mother, who once worked as a maid in the home of the New Zealand writer Katherine Mansfield, wrote poems that she sold door to door.
Charles Schlesinger, an agent at Brandt & Hochman, said the book sold many thousands of copies every year in English and various translations; it is still in print in the 1987 Delacorte edition.
Her company's revenues exceeded $20 million in 1988, when it was sold to the Pyle Group, a financial services and investment firm.
In 1982, the museum took over the former Young Israel of the Concourse Synagogue, on the corner of 165th Street and the Grand Concourse, which had been sold to the city by its dwindling congregation.
She called it ZooDoo, and sold some of it in two-pound bags for $2.50 in smart Manhattan stores.
      
Set at the zenith of Britain's Indian Empire and covering a period from roughly 1885 to 1920, it led to a television mini-series in 1984, sold millions of copies around the world and remains in print, as do a dozen of her other books.
Among them were the British painter Howard Hodgkin, whose first solo exhibition in this country sold out at the gallery in 1973.
She played there until 1995, when the bank was sold and its new owner decided to do away with the music.
Its products are sold in more than 130 countries across five continents.
In 1944, the Lauders opened concessions in beauty salons in New York and sold products to out-of-town salons through jobbers.
''
        The concessions were closed in 1946 and gradually the company sold to stores like Saks Fifth Avenue.
They were sold to many prominent publications.
Her opponents were surprised when she finally sold the Belnord.
Her ''Little Raccoon'' series, which is still in print in the United States, was translated into Russian and has sold more than 375,000 copies in Russia.
'' She divorced him, she said, after he injected her with drugs while she slept, sold their house and their furniture and kept the money, and disappeared for a time with their baby daughter, Susan.
By early 1958, the book had sold 810,000 copies in France and more than a million in the United States and had been translated into 20 languages.
The collection sold more than 28,000 copies, which her editor, Daniel Menaker, yesterday called an ''alpine'' figure for a volume of poetry.
She also sold the work of Milton Avery.
''
        In 1995, mother and daughter opened Martha Phillips, which sold less-expensive clothing, in Palm Beach.
''
        ''The Rape of Nanking'' spent 10 weeks on the New York Times best-seller list, and close to half a million copies have been sold, Ms. Rabiner said.
Though her sculptures sold well, she preferred acting and would linger outside stage doors hoping to be hired.
