She sold the watch her father had given her at her high school graduation for $30, bought a train ticket and arrived in Hollywood with $18.
In 1943, Miss Lee left Goodman to marry Dave Barbour, the band's guitarist, with whom she collaborated on a number of hits, including ''I Don't Know Enough About You,'' ''It's a Good Day,'' and ''Mañana,'' a 1948 blockbuster that sold more than two million records and began her long association with Latin-flavored music.
''Pippi'' and its sequels have together sold millions of copies and been translated into more than 50 languages.
During the next decade she studied music in Paris and Berlin, and in England in 1933 she met a lute expert, Arnold Dolmetsch, who sold her an instrument from 1600 that he had restored.
Her contributions to the convertible business, which was sold to Krause's Furniture in 1993, were usually anonymous.
Her works sold more than five million copies in 24 languages.
Her contributions to the convertible business, which was sold to Krause's Furniture in 1993, were usually anonymous.

        Esther Afua Ocloo, who as a young woman turned a gift of less than a dollar into 12 jars of marmalade -- which she sold for a profit -- and went on to become one of Ghana's leading entrepreneurs and a prominent exponent of the role of women in economic development, died on Feb. 8 in Accra, Ghana.
She bought sugar, firewood, oranges and 12 jars, and made marmalade jam, which she sold for a shilling a jar.
More than one billion Barbies have been sold in 150 countries.
And Barbie's fly-off-the-shelf popularity transformed the sleepy company that sold the doll, Mattel Inc., into a postwar success story.
''Until now,'' she said in 1977, ''every breast that was sold was used interchangeably for the right or the left side.
She was fond of relating how, for the Warhol portrait (a nine-panel work sold at auction by Christie's last year for $2 million), she took $25 in quarters into a photo booth and spent hours snapping herself doing facial exercises learned as a budding actress.
The initial deal was that she would be paid $50 a recording, no matter how many copies it sold.
''
        The original ''Caps for Sale'' has sold more than two million copies since it was first published, according to Ms. Slobodkina's publisher, HarperCollins.
In the four years that they operated Angel, before EMI sold it, they created a significant catalog of about 500 releases from some of the greatest musicians of the day, including the singers Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, Tito Gobbi, Boris Christoff and the young Maria Callas; the pianists Walter Gieseking and Arturo Benedetti Michelangeli; and the conductors Carlo Maria Giulini and Herbert von Karajan.
He also sold her scores of his paintings and many works by Kahlo, who had died in 1954.
Her father, who sold hay and grain, and his six children then moved to Westchester County.
List sold much of her collection to have more money to give away.
Those products, unhomogenized milk with a thick layer of cream on the top, bottled in glass; cream that almost whips itself; and Monterey Jack and white cheddar, are sold throughout California.
Paper dolls of her are sold on eBay.
The book, which sold well, was published internationally and widely adopted in high school and college curriculums.
