
        Candida Donadio, the celebrated literary agent who sold Joseph Heller's first novel, ''Catch-22,'' and Philip Roth's ''Goodbye, Columbus,'' died on Saturday at her home in Stonington, Conn. She was 71.
''
        Ms. Donadio was in her first job as a literary agent in 1957 when she sold the Joseph Heller novel that was then titled ''Catch 18.
When Mr. Jaffe sold the agency in 1961, Ms. Donadio found a new home at Russell & Volkening.
The chain developed the concept of cake as extravaganza, and sold many creations to theatrical and film productions.
Her hair-straightening method and line of beauty products were sold by thousands of sales agents.
It was sold in the 1980's.
Her father sold his stamp collection to pay for her Parisian classes.
Their thesis was sharply disputed at the time, but the book sold nine million copies and was translated into 28 languages.
In the book's first 20 years in print, more than five million copies were sold in hard-cover and paperback editions.
''Angel Unaware'' sold 400,000 copies in two years; Miss Evans gave the profits to the National Association for Retarded Children.
She wrote or composed more than 25 songs, including ''Aha, San Antone,'' which sold more than 200,000 copies, and ''The Bible Tells Me So.
When Ms. Sothern quarreled with the show's other producer over her right to take on movie roles, she left the series and sold her 104 episodes for well over $1 million.
'' In 1989, 28 years after ''The Ann Sothern Show'' went off the air, the actress sold the rights to the cable channel Nickelodeon, where the show became an unexpected hit.
And while working for Irving Mills, Ellington's manager, she sold him on the idea of forming small bands within Ellington's larger orchestra.
She has never sold many albums.
Because the rights to their image had been sold, they said later, their parents were not allowed to photograph them and visits from Oliva and their mother, Elzier, were discouraged.
Her mother sold fabrics in a store.
Ms. Wheelwright eventually deeded the ranch to Ms. Chabot, who sold it in the 1960's to move to Albuquerque to care for her elderly mother.
''
        Mrs. Graham met with the directors of The Post a month after her husband's death and told them that the paper would not be sold and that it would remain in the family.

        Beate Uhse, who as a destitute war widow sold birth control pamphlets from a bicycle before going on to develop Europe's biggest emporium of erotic goods, died on Monday in a hospital in Switzerland.
The formula was in the hands of a German chemist, who sold it to the American company for $25,000.
''A Curtain of Green '' sold only 7,000 copies in 30 years, but the 17 stories in the collection became widely known and valued through their inclusion in many anthologies and college textbooks.
First published in 1950, ''Amos Fortune, Free Man'' traced the story of an adolescent African prince sold into slavery and brought to this country.
It sold a million copies and included two Top 10 singles, ''Back and Forth'' and ''At Your Best (You Are Love).
'' The album sold two million copies.
''She'll call them up and say, 'Why haven't you sold any tables for the gala?
When he told her he sold newspapers, she thought he owned a kiosk or hawked newspapers as a street vendor.
In 1985 a State Supreme Court justice finally awarded her a 35 percent share in Scull's art holdings, including $2.5 million worth of paintings and more than $1 million in cash from paintings sold since 1973.
'' Later that year she sold it at auction for $3.63 million, then the highest amount paid for a work by a living artist.
''
        Mrs. Dannheisser considered her holdings ''a living collection'' and continually sold off and bought new works, often after pursuing them a great while.
Mr. Dannheisser sold his business in 1981, just as the East Village art scene was taking off and contemporary-art collecting became a very competitive sport.
She sold many of them and, with the profits, became one of the first collectors to buy the work of emerging artists like Robert Gober, Jeff Koons and Felix Gonzalez-Torres, and, later, Matthew Barney.
She sold it in 1996 because of poor health.
The house was sold in 1994, and Mrs. Ash, who was twice widowed and once divorced, returned to the old and less elaborate house where she lived alone.
The house was sold in 1994, and Mrs. Ash, who was twice widowed and once divorced, returned to her old  and less elaborate house where she lived alone.
A slender volume of practical advice simply expressed, it sold in the millions and remains in print at Ballantine.
Hundreds of thousands of her prints were sold through mail-order catalogs, furniture stores and galleries specializing in prints and posters.
Her book ''Ancient Ways: Reclaiming Pagan Traditions'' (Llewellyn, 1991) told how pagan cultures celebrated holidays, and it sold more than 40,000 copies.
The restaurant was sold a year and a half ago.
