When her husband died in 1978, Mrs. Mottahedeh succeeded him as president and remained active in the company, even after it was sold, until her retirement in 1998.
She toured the United States in 1988 as Sire Records released her album ''Shaday,'' which sold a million copies worldwide.
' ''
        The novel was a Book-of-the-Month Club selection, and the movie rights were sold to 20th Century Fox, which turned the story into a popular film starring Jennifer Jones.
'' She later sold that house.
And although her name may not have been taken seriously by the more serious students of comparative literature or by the subscribers to literary supplements, about one billion copies of her 723 books were printed and sold in 36 languages.
'' The collection was sold in the mid-1950's at what was then The Parke-Bernet Galleries.
Beginning in 1967, from a series of shops located in unlikely quarters of London and Paris, and later at I. Magnin in San Francisco and Giorgio of Beverly Hills, she made and sold clothes whose inspiration was drawn from her far-ranging travels and a childhood spent as the half-French, half-English daughter of a missionary posted to the Middle East.
Workman says more than a million copies of it have been sold.
Drenka Willen, a senior editor at Harcourt Brace, said Frau Ritzerfeld was influential in her field because ''for one thing, Suhrkamp publishes high-quality books, so she sold the rights to books of great consequence.
The book sold more than one million paperback copies and was translated into six languages.
She was also a director of the Colonial Penn Group, which they founded in 1963, until they sold it in 1984.
The series, which she created with Richard Hefter, a writer and illustrator, and Ruth Lerner Perle, based on a menagerie of alphabetical animals with gentle foibles, sold more than 50 million copies.
The publisher sold 10 million copies, and the Weekly Reader Book Club, owned by Xerox, sold 40 million more.
The publisher sold 10 million copies, and the Weekly Reader Book Club, owned by Xerox, sold 40 million more.
'' More than three million copies of the album and single were sold.
