She maintained an artist's studio at her residences in San Francisco and later in Carmel, once sold 40 paintings for $100 each and illustrated her own articles for The Saturday Evening Post.
Her recording of ''On the Good Ship Lollipop,'' in Betty Boop's voice, sold more than two million copies in the 1930's.
The company was sold to the Pulitzer Publishing Company in 1996.
From time to time she also showed and sold her own pictures.
They proved popular, and she sold hundreds at hundreds of dollars apiece.
It was later sold.
'' It brought $78.1 million, then a record auction price for Impressionist art and the second-highest price for any artwork sold at auction.
When the album sold poorly, she decided to stick to the worlds of theater and cabaret and returned to Broadway as the narrator in ''Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.
Her first works -- small glazed figures whose whimsy echoed her drawings -- sold easily, helping her make it through the Depression.
Until her death Ms. Skelly served as vice chairwoman of the new firm, DYG Inc., based in Danbury, Conn. (Saatchi & Saatchi sold the former Yankelovich, Skelly & White, now Yankelovich Partners, in 1992.
In her 25-year career, Ms. Wynette recorded more than 50 albums and sold more than 30 million recordings.
''Stand By Your Man,'' written by Ms. Wynette and Mr. Sherrill, sold more than two million copies.
She recorded more than 50 albums and sold more than 30 million recordings.
''Stand By Your Man'' sold more than two million copies.
In 1923 she left The Herald to try free-lancing and sold her first story to The Saturday Evening Post.
For many years, most of her designs were sold in this country to Rockefellers, DuPonts and scores of other clients with  social names, many at private showings.

        Ginette Mathiot, who taught French cooking to the French with such succinct authority that her basic book of recipes sold more than five  million copies, died on June 14 at a retirement home in Paris.
Over four decades, the Lipmans amassed a large folk art collection, part of which they sold in 1981 to the Museum of American Folk Art and to the New York State Historical Association in Cooperstown.
Her books, ''The Prophecies of Nostradamus,'' ''The Further Prophecies of Nostradamus'' and ''The Final Prophecies of Nostradamus,'' in which she claimed to have found predictions of the execution of  Charles I, the Great Fire of London, the Apollo 13 catastrophe and the spread of AIDS, sold in the millions.
In the first two years after ''Eloise'' came out, 150,000 copies were sold.
''
        Kim Bouchard, a senior publicist at Simon & Schuster, Ms. Thompson's publisher, said that according to records beginning in 1983, 592,000 copies of ''Eloise'' have been sold in the United States since 1983.
At one point soon after founding her store, she sold every appliance and piece of furniture in her home to pay off a debt.
The novels won respect in the publishing industry, led to a couple of television movies and sold steadily in the United States, Europe and Japan, though not enough to make the authors wealthy.
The most serious allegation was made in 1989 by Darrell Robinson, a former national 400-meter champion, who said that he had sold human growth hormone to Griffith Joyner in 1988.
Most of it has since been sold, and a few paintings were given to museums, most notably Hopper's ''Carolina Morning,'' which went to the Whitney.
An ear for music was augmented with a nose for marmalade, as  Ms. Ferragamo developed her own recipe for the orange jam, which is sold by the jar in Japan.
When she was returned to Phoenix for trial, thousands lined the streets for a glimpse, and the owner of the home where the murders occurred sold 10-cent tickets for tours.
Mrs. Korein bought and sold the Beresford Apartments, 211 Central Park West, between 81st and 82d Streets; the former Croyden Hotel, 12 East 86th Street, at Madison Avenue; the former Fifth Avenue Hotel, 24 Fifth Avenue, at Ninth Street, and the Schwab House apartments, a full-block complex between West End Avenue and Riverside Drive, 73d and 74th Streets.
She signed the contract anyway and more than doubled her money when she sold the property a few years later, Mr. Friedland said.
When she was 9, she finished a short story, ''The Spinning Top,'' and sold it to a Newark newspaper for $1.
In 1939 she was its first publicity volunteer, and during World War II, she trained speakers who sold war bonds during the time of the Stage Door Canteen.
'' She was pleased that this production of ''Porgy'' sold out and that ''Miss Crist never held my impulsive letter against me.
At college, she majored in English literature, a parallel interest that had no doubt been sharpened when her father and uncle produced a little book, ''How to Operate a Lathe,'' in 1930 that sold 1.5 million copies in 78 countries.
By the time her patents came through in 1951, she had sold their rights for $1 million and moved on to her next brainstorm: replacing cloth diapers with disposable absorbent paper.
Among her other inventions, Mr. Malsed said, were large, irregular-shaped interlocking beads sold as ''jewelry'' for children.
She sold that idea to a major toy manufacturer in 1958 for $5,000.
But he lost $12 million in the Depression, and his daughter Helen was forced to drop out of Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash.
        After studying advertising in San Francisco, she was offered a job at the Frederick & Nelson department store in Seattle, where she met and married Marion Parker Malsed, who sold men's clothing in the store.
Learning that the Customs Service had sold 140 tons of old documents to a junk dealer, he persuaded the man to let him go through the refuse and ended up paying 25 cents each for thousands of documents signed by Presidents.
Aside from a photographic memory that allowed her to recognize a handwriting she had not seen in years and to rattle off obscure biographic details of more than 10,000 notable figures of the previous 500 years, Miss Benjamin, who bought and sold between 5,000 and 10,000 documents a year and maintained an inventory of some 50,000 documents in her office vaults, had an uncanny sense of their value in the market of the moment.
The first two books she both wrote and illustrated, ''Babies'' and ''Baby Animals,'' have sold a combined 1.3 million copies and are still in print.
When it was introduced that summer at $1 a tube, Lord & Taylor sold out its stock on the first day.
