She is survived by a son, Robert of Lincoln; three grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Philip, of Clinton Township, N.J.; two daughters, Marjorie Wismer of Bricktown, N.J., and Joan, of Raritan Township; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Edward's daughter, India Moffett Williams, died in 1979, and her son, John Holbrook Moffett, died in World War II.
Mrs. Dunn is survived by a son, Tristram, of Darien, Conn., as well as by Mrs. Spangenberg, who lives in South Salem, N.Y., and by four grandchildren, including Mrs. Hanson's three children.
      
With Mr. Fay, she adopted a son, Dion Anthony Fay.
With Mr. Fay, she adopted a son, Dion Anthony Fay, from whom she had been estranged for decades.
At one point, retainers at her house summoned the police to eject Mr. Wilson, the son of a Welsh coal miner.
A graduate of Adelphi University, she is survived by a daughter, Sarah Petlin of Manhattan; a son, William, of Newton, Conn.; a brother, Dr. Bernard Simon of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      

       Elizabeth Meyers, director of college activities at Barnard before she retired in 1972, died of cancer on Wednesday at Sentara Leigh Memorial Hospital in Norfolk, Va., while visiting a son in Virginia Beach.
She was 83 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J.
        Elizabeth Meyers, director of college activities at Barnard before she retired in 1972, died of cancer on Wednesday at Sentara Leigh Memorial Hospital in Norfolk, Va., while visiting a son in Virginia Beach.
She is survived by her husband, John A. Gruver; a daughter, Cynthia Gruver-Williams of Carroll County, Md., and a son, John Gordon Gruver of College Park, Md.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert J. Stuart; a son, two daughters and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Louis; a daughter, Judy Sandegren, of New Canaan, Conn.; a son, Steve R. Witkin, of Waterville, Me.
Surviving are a son, Russell, of Stowe, Vt.; three sisters, Aletha Watkins, Lovie Barbour and Katie Stamey, all of Raleigh; five grandchldren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Jonathan A., of Mountain View, Calif.; a daughter, Joanna Caproni of Manhattan; a sister, M. Helen Burnard of Nashua, N.H.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Susan Gullotta of Pleasantville; a son, Dr. Beach Conger of Hartland, Vt.; a brother, Dr. George A. Cunningham of Palm Beach, Fla., and seven grandchildren.
      
She played an important role in selecting the succeeding publishers -her husband, Arthur Hays Sulzberger; her son-in-law Orvil E. Dryfoos, and her son, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger.
Publisher Gets a Son-in-Law
        At college she ''very casually'' met Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the son of a cotton merchant; later she was reintroduced to him by her cousin Julius Ochs Adler, with whom Mr. Sulzberger was in military training at Plattsburgh, N.Y.
Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the youngest Sulzberger child and the only son, was named president and publisher.
Along with her son, Mrs. Sulzberger's three other children are now directors of the Times Company - Marian Sulzberger Heiskell, Ruth Sulzberger Holmberg, and Dr. Judith P. Sulzberger.
''Through her, the continuity of family control from father to husband to son-in-law to son has been maintained for over 60 years and, through her, it will be passed on to the next generation - her grandchildren,'' Mrs. Tuchman wrote.
Surviving are a daughter, Jennifer Stewart, and a son, Mark Stewart, both of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a son, Eugene, of Reston; two daughters, Sheila, of Westport, Conn., and Mona Sharkey of Elverson, Pa.; nine grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her husband, Walter, and a son, William.
      
Dr. Kendall is survived by a son, Robert Lazersfeld of Los Angeles, and a stepdaughter, Lotte Bailyn of Boston.
      
; a son, Timothy, of Manhattan; two brothers, Dean Ruth of Washington, and Robert Ruth of Lodi, N.Y.; a sister, Elizabeth Edwards of Cocoa Beach, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Henry, of Manhattan; a daughter, Pamela Lee Syrmis, also of Manhattan; a brother, Jack Strauss of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
Later in 1928, she married Wogan Philipps, the eldest son of the first Lord Milford, the shipping magnate.
She is survived by her son, Hugo.
      
A widow, she is survived by a daughter, Mary Yrizarry of Brooklyn; a son, David G. of Washington, and two granddaughters.
      
Miss Johnson's other books were ''Year's End'' (1937), ''Wildwood'' (1946), ''Jordanstown'' (1937), ''Winter Orchard and Other Stories'' (1935), ''The Sorcerer's Son and Other Stories'' (1965), ''The Dark Traveler'' (1963), ''Seven Houses: A Memoir of Time and Places'' (1973) and ''Circle of Seasons'' (1974).
Miss Johnson is survived by two daughters, Annie Cannon of Camptonville, Calif., and Carol Cannon of Philadelphia; a son, Terrence Cannon of Hoboken, N.J., and two sisters, Majorie McConnell of Fanwood, N.J., and Florence Johnson of St. Louis.
      
She is survived by her sister, Alice Rutherfurd of Manhattan; two daughters, Elizabeth Guest Stevens of Washington, and Virginia Guest of New York City; a son, Raymond Jr., of Front Royal, Va., and five grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Lauren, of Manhattan, and a son, Jamie, of Westhampton Beach.
      
Her son, John Hoke, said she was ''awfully good at finding new authors.
Ms. Hoke and her son, a photographer and writer, wrote ''Music Boxes: Their Lore and Lure'' in 1957.
Surviving are her son, who lives in Bethesda, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Dorothy Shaffer of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Clement, of Toronto and Lewiston, N.Y.; a sister, Kitty C. Margulies of Manhattan, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Theodore Klein Jr., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Edward, of Glencoe, Ill.; a daughter, Susan, of New York City; a sister, Radie Harris of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Baltimore, Mrs. Hill is survived by a son, James, of Manhasset, L.I.
She is survived by her husband, Robert J., and by a son, four daughters, two sisters and 11 grandchildren.
      
Ms. James is survived by a daughter, Bambi Sue Camerman of Flemington, N.J.; a son, Donald Burke of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. James is survived by a daughter, Bambi Sue Camerman of Flemington, N.J.; a son, Donald Burke of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and daughter, Mrs. Salvatori is survived by a son, Henry Ford Salvatori, and a grandson.
      
'' In it, she discussed her father's debilitating aphasia and the drug abuse of her adopted son, Jason, who subsequently died of a lethal drug combination.
The widow of Lazaar Henkin, also a lawyer, she is survived by a son, Jay M. Stanley of Kintnersville; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Dr. David Arron of Philadelphia; three brothers, Abraham Katchka of Pontiac, Hyman Katchka of Seminole, Fla., and Dr. David Katchka of Toledo, Ohio, and two grandsons.
      
Surviving are her husband, Kenneth; a son, John, of Manhattan; a daughter, Claire, of Saunderstown, R.I., and her parents, Darwin and Lucille Hagan of Ridgewood.
Surviving are her husband, Kenneth; a son, John, of Manhattan; a daughter, Claire, of Saunderstown, R.I., and her parents, Darwin and Lucille Hagan of Ridgewood.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. T. A. Jackson of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, and two grandsons.
      
Surviving are her husband, Walter; a daughter, Anne Riley Patterson of Princeton, N.J.; a son, Harry, of Munich, West Germany, and four grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Boston, an energetic woman who wrote during the cold months and gardened in the summers on her four-acre estate, suffered two strokes in March, according to her son, Peter, an architect in nearby Cambridge, who illustrated most of her books.
Surviving, besides her son, are two granddaughters and two stepgrandsons.
      
She died of a stroke, her son said.
She died of a stroke, her son said.
; a son, Benjamin, of Wareham, Mass.
The couple had one son.
      
She is survived by her husband, Darrel Austin; a son, Darrel Jr., of Newtown, Conn., and a brother, Barney Helser, of Portland.
      
Mrs. Grape died of lymphoma, a son said.
Mrs. Corwin, who was 67 years old and lived in Hawley, Pa., died of complications from lung cancer, her son, William Lewis, said yesterday.
Mrs. Corwin, who was 67 years old and lived in Hawley, Pa., died of complications from lung cancer, her son, William Lewis, said yesterday.
Mrs. Corwin is survived, in addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, by her husband, Eugene; a sister, Charlotte Kassel of Washington, and a grandson.
      
She had been suffering from cancer, said her son, Timothy.
Miss Moran's only immediate survivor is her son, who lives in Sedona.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Alison, of Los Angeles; a son, Edgar Valentine Loew of Manhattan; a sister, Eleanor F. Lenzner of Manhattan, and a brother, Myron S. Falk Jr. of Manhattan.
      
She was 81 years old and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y.
        Mrs. Morris's son Jeffrey Brandon Morris said she died after a brief illness.
In addition to Mr. Morris, of Philadelphia, she is survived by a son, Donald Robinson Morris of Cheyenne, Wyo.
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Perls is survived by a son, Dr. Stephen R. Perls, a psychologist in Albuquerque, N.M.; a brother, Robert Posner, of Providence, R.I.; four grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      
Her son, Doren Voeth, said she died of Alzheimer's Disease.
Mrs. Kramer is survived by her husband and son, and a sister, Renee Rylander of Newark, Del.
      
A widow, Ms. Stein is survived by a son, Richard, of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and a daughter, Nancy Tunis of Rye Brook, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, John A. Sparks of Colorado Springs, Colo.; a daughter, Becky Sparks of Atlanta, and two sisters, Margaret Turn of Bushkill, Pa., and Jean LeGrand of Conyers, Ga.
      
Mrs. Olmsted is survived by a son, Anthony, of West Goshen, Pa.; a daughter, Enid Burke, of Springfield, Mass.
'' They had a son, Tarquin, before they were divorced in 1940.
She is survived by her son, Brian Garfield of Studio City, Calif.; her sister, who lives in Birmingham, Ala.; and two brothers, Chester O'Brien of Garden City, L.I., and Mortimer O'Brien of Lido Beach, L.I.
      
She is survived by a son, Christopher, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Susan, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a son, A. Carter Hinckley of Manhattan; a daughter, Debbie Berghorst of Winnetka, Ill.,; two brothers, Beverley Burnham of Morris Plains, N.J., and Yerbury Burnham of Keowee, S.C., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mr. Stone, she is survived by their son Joseph, of Newtown; a daughter, Francine, of Wallingford, England; two sisters, Dorothy Hatch of Washington and Miriam Whelan of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. James Mark of Palo Alto Calif., a daughter, Margaret Heller of Madison, N.J.; eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two children from an earlier marriage, a son, Rafael Palacios and a daughter, Carmen Palacios de Ramirez, both of San Juan; two daughters from her second marriage, Senator Victoria Munoz Mendoza of San Juan and Viviana Munoz Mendoza of Boston; 14 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Besides Mr. Bellson, Miss Bailey is survived by a son, Tony, and a daughter, Dee Dee, both of Los Angeles, and by two sisters, Eura Robinson and Virgie Murray, both of Philadelphia.
''
        Besides Mr. Bellson, Miss Bailey is survived by a son, Tony, and a daughter, Dee Dee, both of Los Angeles, and by two sisters, Eura Robinson and Virgie Murray, both of Philadelphia.
Dr. Shorb is survived by her husband, Doyf; a son, Alan, who lives in Japan; two daughters, Carole Shorb and Barbara Breeden, both of Beltsville; a sister, Margaret Brownfield of Boise, Idaho; seven grandchldren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
She died of brain tumors, her son, Richard F. Whitcomb, said.
Surviving, besides her son, Richard, of Potomac, Md., are four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
After several decades on Fifth Avenue the store recently moved to East 57th Street and is now run by her son Albert, of Chester, N.J.
She is also survived by another son, Jack, of Manhattan; four grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
      
She died of cancer, her son Konstantine said.
Mrs. Stern is survived by a son, Robert, who lives in Prague.
      
A widow, she is survived by two children, a son, John, and her daughter, both of Albuquerque; two brothers, Sidney King of Poughkeepsie, and Daniel King of Harrison, N.Y., and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Peabody died of cancer, her son, Reese, said.
Mrs. Peabody died of cancer, her son, Reese, said.
''
        In addition to Ms. Kleeman, she is survived by another daughter, Elizabeth Frank of Baltimore; a son, Richard P. Kleeman of Washington; eight grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Christina Stenhuis-Shattuck of Rowayton, Conn.; a son, John, of Cambridge, Mass.
She is survived by a son, Martin, of London.
      
She was 60 years old and lived in Sunapee, N.H. She died of cancer, said her son Stephen.
She is survived by her husband, Robert; another son, Mark, of Westwood, Mass.
Her son, David R. J.
She is survived by her son, who lives in San Francisco.
      
She had suffered a heart attack earlier in the day at her home, said her son, Peter Osnos.
Besides her son Peter, of Greenwich, Conn., she is survived by her husband, Joseph, of Manhattan; a son, Robert, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Peter, of Greenwich, Conn., she is survived by her husband, Joseph, of Manhattan; a son, Robert, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Breslauer died of cancer, said her son, Walter H. Liebman.
She is survived by a two children from a former marriage, her son, Walter of Rye, N.Y., and a daughter, Susan Butler of Pine Plains, N.Y.; a brother, Edwin H. Koehler of Manhattan; and a sister, Carol K. Pforzheimer of Stuart, Fla., five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. Owen died of congestive heart failure, her son, Wadsworth, said.
In addition to her son, of Lewes, Del., she is survived by four grandchildren and three great grand-children.
      
She died of congestive heart failure, her son Thomas said.
Besides her son Thomas W., she is survived by two other sons, Frank S., of Manhattan, and Henry S., of Wenham, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Walter Bonime; a son, Frank Cummings, of Chevy Chase, Md.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Margolin is survived by a son, Victor, of Evanston, Ill., and a granddaughter.
      
The couple had one son, Benjamin Cave, who died in September.
She is survived by a son.
      
She contributed money as well as her time, benefiting institutions like Smith College, from which she graduated in 1907 at the age of 19; Northwestern University Law School, from which her father, Levy Mayer, graduated, and Princeton, where she endowed scholarships in memory of her husband, Walter A. Hirsch, a lawyer, who died in 1938, and their son, Lawrence, who died in 1960.
''
        In 1940, two years after her husband's death and in the year in which both her daughter and her son left home to marry, Mrs. Hirsch took a suite at the Pierre for six months, to give herself time to decide where to live permanently.
She died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said her son David, of Parsippany, N.J.
        A graduate of Smith College, Mrs. Alvarez worked for The New York World Telegram and Sun for three years during World War II before interrupting her career to care for her family.
In addition to her son David, she is survived by her son Jeremy, of Philadelphia; a brother, Clair Maxwell of Orlando, Fla.; a sister, Hope Tate, of Oxford, Mich., and two grandsons.
      
In addition to her son David, she is survived by her son Jeremy, of Philadelphia; a brother, Clair Maxwell of Orlando, Fla.; a sister, Hope Tate, of Oxford, Mich., and two grandsons.
      
Ms. Brown is survived by her husband, Michael Hebel, and a son, Noel Neri.
      
She is survived by her husband, Michel; a son, Leonid, of Rome, Pa.; a daughter, Denise Hidalgo of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Susanna Berger of New Rochelle, N.Y.; a son, Jonathan, of Tuckahoe, N.Y., five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She died of cancer, her son Peter said.
In addition to her son Peter, of Alford, Mass., she is survived by another son, Ralph G.. of Cape Coral, Fla.
      
In addition to her son Peter, of Alford, Mass., she is survived by another son, Ralph G.. of Cape Coral, Fla.
      
She remained in Iran through the reign of the son of Shah Riza Pahlevi, Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi, and left in 1980 after Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini came to power.
She is survived by her husband, Shelly; a daughter, Monica Meyer and a son, Kenneth Meyer, both of Greenvale; her parents, Bolling and Marguerite Ellis of Troy, N.Y.; a sister, Victoria Pelinski of Ballston Lake, N.Y., and two stepdaughters, Alexis and Jessica Gruber of Canton, Ohio.
      
She is survived by her son from a former marriage, Shane Edwin Riorden of Williamstown; a brother, Stanton Mighell of Aurora, Ill.; three grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      

        Ruth Bishop, past president and a board member of the New York chapter of the United Nations Association, which promotes the United Nations, died on Wednesday at the home of her son Arthur Lipper 3d in White Plains.
Besides her son Arthur, Mrs. Bishop, a widow, is survived by another son, A. Michael Lipper of Summit, N.J.; two stepdaughters, Susan Lipper and Randa Bishop, both of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Arthur, Mrs. Bishop, a widow, is survived by another son, A. Michael Lipper of Summit, N.J.; two stepdaughters, Susan Lipper and Randa Bishop, both of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Keith C. Robertson; two daughters, Hope E. Robertson of Stockton, N.J., and Christina H. Robertson of Philadelphia; a son, Jeffrey K. Robertson of Hopewell, and her brother, Peter Hexter of Newtown, Pa.
      
She died of cancer, said Richard Grant, who handles publicity for the actress's son, Larry Hagman.
"  Dancing Her Way To Hollywood
        The actress's first marriage lasted only a few years, and the teen-age bride brought up her son as if he were her younger brother.
Miss Martin is survived by her son, her daughter, Heller Halliday DeMeritt, six grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, Scott Grabo of Arlington, Va., and a daughter, Carrie Grabo of Woodbury, Vt.; her mother, Pearle Carroll of Las Vegas, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Sam Silbergeld; three daughters, Sandra, of Rockville, Md., Dr. Janet Silbergeld and Dr. Nancy Jecker, both of Seattle; a son, Dr. Danie Silbergeld, of Seattle; her mother, Jennie Driscoll, of Beavercreek, Ohio; two sisters, Ruth Hallman, of Beavercreek and Julie Stockman, of Dayton, Ohio; two brothers, Dr. Glenn Driscoll, of Fresno, Calif., and Carl Driscoll, of Lathrup Village, Mich., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Comer, who suffered from Alzheimer's disease, died of respiratory failure, her son, Charles, of Port Washington, L.I., said.
A widow, she is survived by a second son, Harry, of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; four daughters, Miriam Mayer of South Orange, N.J., Carolyn Comer of Port Washington, Marguerite Jansen of Appleton, Wis., and Janet Bryars of Papillion, Neb.
Mrs. Sobieski is survived by her husband, James; two daughters, Emmy, of Seattle, and Mona, of Santa Monica; a son, Jamie, of Stockton, Calif., and a sister, Wendy Marsh of Amarillo.
      
Her son, Seton Cottier, died in 1979.
She had suffered from Parkinson's disease for more than three years, said her son, Jonathan, of Manhattan.
In addition to her son, she is survived by her husband, D. John Phillips; a daughter, Lynn Raglione of Manhattan, and two brothers, Al and Irving, both of Sarasota.
She is survived by her husband, George; a daughter, Deborah, and a son, Barry, both of Brooklyn Heights, and a sister, Babette Hollister of Queens.
      
Mrs. Pandit, the sister of India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was the virtual chief of one of Asia's most important political dynasties, which included Mr. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, who was Prime Minister for 13 years, and Mrs. Gandhi's son Rajiv, who succeeded his mother in 1984 and served until 1989.
Ms. Rinzler is survived by her father, Irving Eisen, of Mount Pleasant, S.C.; a son, Michael, and a daughter, Jane, both of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Moses; two daughters, Deborah Statt Winegar of Manhattan and Jo-Ann Harrison of Kiryat Ono, Israel; a son, Victor of London; a sister, Miriam Waldman of Charlotte, N.C., and two grandsons.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children from previous marriages, a daughter, Lucia Scott of Stamford, Conn., and a son, Guy Thomas of Manchester, Vt.; two sisters, Dorothy Lewis of St. Louis and Ruth Hamilton of Nashville, and four grandchildren.
      
She died of pneumonia after a long illness, her son, Calman, said.
Besides her son, she is survived by a brother, George Columbus of Lake Worth, Fla., and a granddaughter, Jamey Phillips of New York City.
      
She is survived by a son, Matthew Kallem of Rockport, Me.
      
"
        Besides her husband, Ms. Chusmir is survived by a son, Steven, of Fort Lauderdale; a daughter, Marsha Chusmir-Shapiro of Daytona Beach, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. Victor Gurewich of Cambridge, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Ralph; a sister, Joan Allard of Albany, and a son, Stephen, of Hastings.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Louise Bettman of Cincinnati and Helen Cohen of Houston; a son, Gilbert Bettman Jr. of Los Angeles; a sister, Roberta Robb Bratenahl of Pasadena, Calif.; and a granddaughter.
      
Survivors include her husband and a son, Jean-Michel.
      
