Surviving are a son, Theodore Baker Warner of Bethesda, Md.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Gray H. Twombly; a son, Robert, of Austin, Tex.
''It was fortunate that I could trek back and forth across the Atlantic, earning a living for my son and husband,'' Miss Lillie said.
Son Killed in World War II
        Miss Lillie's private world was shattered in 1942, when her son, who had enlisted in the Royal Navy, was killed in a Japanese air raid on the port of Colombo, Ceylon.
Son Killed in World War II
        Miss Lillie's private world was shattered in 1942, when her son, who had enlisted in the Royal Navy, was killed in a Japanese air raid on the port of Colombo, Ceylon.
Miss Chang is survived by a son, Chih-kia Hsu, of Rego Park, Queens, and by four grandchldren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her son, Gabriel, of Los Angeles; a sister, Shifrah Mendelsund, of Scarborough, N.Y., and a brother, Solomon Krystal of the Bronx.
      
She is survived by a son, William Wetmore, of Amenia, N.Y.; two stepsons, Palmer Dixon, of New Canaan, Conn., and Peter Dixon, of New York, and several grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Ruth Reinhold of Tenafly, N.J.; a son, Albert, of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; a sister, Sylvia Robinson of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert K. Greenleaf; a son, Newcomb, of New York City; two daughters, Elizabeth, of New Haven, and Madeline Jaynes of New York City; a brother, William Hargrave of Lansdowne, Pa.; a sister, Nora Bailey of Short Hills, N.J., and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Johanna Garfield, and a son, Frank Rosengarten, both of Manhattan; a sister, Lillian Schuman, of Los Angeles, and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Gragg, who lived in Detroit, is survived by a son, J. Robert Gragg, a retired probate judge; and two sisters, Ann Henderson and Marie Moore, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, David Bodansky of Seattle; a sister, Zivia Wurtele of Santa Monica; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Hayes is survived by her son, the actor Peter Lind Hayes; two grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. North is survived by a son, David, of Washington and a daughter, Arielle North Olson of Harding Township, a sister, Edith Buchanan Baker of Zionsville, Ind., a brother, Howard A. Buchanan of Downers Grove, Ill., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Edwin Collett Vare of New Haven; a daughter, Glenna Kalen of Caracas, Venezuela, and a brother, Edwin A. Collett of Brewster, Mass.
      
She is survived by her son, Eric, of Skillman, N.J.; two brothers, E. Vernon Packard of Edison and Preston K. Packard of Blue Bell, Pa., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, McAlister Coleman of Manchester, Mass.
She is survived by three daughters, Sharon Doremus of Morristown, Cynthia Robinson of Mendham and Susan Connell of Harding Township; a son, W. Thomas 3d, also of Harding Township, and 12 grandchildren.
      
On Broadway Miss Coonan acted in ''Seidman and Son,'' ''A Taste of Honey,'' ''The Great White Hope,'' ''Red Roses for Me'' and ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.
Surviving are her son, Frederic Armand-Delille, of Faverolles, France; a daughter, Angelique, of West Germany; a sister, Paola, of Parfondeval, and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, Nicholas Alexander Gilman.
Surviving are two daughters, Ann Connolly, of Norwalk, Conn., and Harrigan Logan, of Los Angeles; a son, Thomas Heggen Logan of Manhattan; three granddaughters, and a great grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband, William; a son, Louis, of Manhattan, and two sisters, Dr. Gily Bard Starobin of Stamford, Conn., and Nuri Relis of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Norman; a daughter, Elizabeth, of Manhattan; a son, Daniel, of Claremont, Calif.; her father, Louis Ginsberg of Brooklyn, and a granddaughter.
      
She born in Manhattan and graduated from Montclair State, summa cum laude, in 1934, A widow, she is survived by a son, Thomas Knecht of Houston.
      
Surviving are her husband, Leon; a son, Stephen, of Northampton, Mass.
Surviving are her husband, Kevin; a son, Donald, of San Diego; a brother, Eugene Zagat of Manhattan; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Although she had lived in Cornwall quietly, with occasional visits from her son and two daughters, to her neighbors she was known for her interest in protecting the integrity of the land and seascape around her against exploitation.
''
        She is survived by a son, Christian Frederick du Maurier-Browning, and two daughters, Lady Tessa Montgomery and Lady Flavia Leng.
      
King Kojong ruled Korea from 1864 to 1907, before he was forced to abdicate his throne in favor of a son as part of Japan's growing influence over the Korean peninsula.
King Kojong ruled Korea from 1864 to 1907 before he was forced to abdicate in favor of a son as part of Japan's growing influence over the Korean peninsula.
''
        For many years she and Mr. Morton had homes in Beverly Hills and Palm Springs and in Snowmass, Colo.
        Miss Ball is survived by her husband, her daughter, her son and three grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Willliam; her mother, Sheila Brodie of Manchester, Vt.; a son, Andrew Hultkrans of Manhattan, a brother, Franklin Driggs of Brooklyn, and a sister, Jean Pfister of San Jose, Calif.
      
She is survived by a son, Felix Mitchell of London; a daughter, Gisela Weil of Elmhurst, Queens; two sisters, Emmy Braun of Binyamina, Israel, and Ruth Fleck of South Orleans, Mass., and a grandchild.
      
Miss Mack is survived by her son, a stepsister and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Norval, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Mary Fearey of Chestnut Hill, Pa.; 10 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Pirone, who raised Arabian horses in Durham for more than a dozen years, is survived by four daughters, a son and 12 grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her mother and a son from a marriage while she was Kenneth Ulane.
      
Miss Roos is survived by her son, Peter Rickett, of Greenville, S.C., and by four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, C. Hooker,; a son, Douglas, of Darien; two stepsons, Niall and Oisin, both of Manhattan, and her mother, Dorothy Black of Darien.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Izetta Jewel Smith of Portland, Ore.; a son, Rex W. D. Smith 3d.
Surviving are a son, Harold, of Newburyport, Mass.
'' and went on, ''Dear Mum and Dad, Son Wrote, I Have Now Become Your Daughter.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Albert Haas, retired professor of experimental rehabilitation medicine at New York University; a son, Dr. Francois of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. John Randolph Backman of Encinitas; a daughter, Susan Patricia Niehaus of San Antonio; a sister, Henrietta Lieberman of North Bergen, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jean Putnam of Devon, Pa.; a son, David, of Indian River, Ontario; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Patricia O'Reilly of Falls Church; a son, James, of Bridgehampton, L.I., and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Stimson, and two daughters, Priscilla Collins and Harriet Bullitt, all of Seattle; 10 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, Richard Adler of Manhattan, and one grandson.
      
She is survived by a son, Thomas, of Concord; a sister, Theodora Baron, of Miami, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Heffernan is survived by her son, William, of Manhattan.
      
Elias Miner; a son, Robert Haywood, of Clinton, Me.
Elias Miner; a son, Robert Haywood, of Clinton, Me.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. F. Mitchell Cummins; a daughter, Rosamond Mitchell Cummins of Boston, and a son, Christopher K. Cummins, of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Anne Klass of Washington; a son, John, of Hanover, N.H.; two sisters, Elizabeth Rosenfeld of Larchmont, N.Y. and Bernice Newmark of West Palm Beach, and one grandson.
      
Forty years later Mrs. Payson's son, John Whitney Payson, sold the painting at Sotheby's in New York for $53.9 million - the highest price ever paid for an artwork at auction.
She is survived by her son, Robert L. S. Tobin, of New York City.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Lester; a daughter, Judith Aviva Lyons of New Rochelle; a son, George David Lyons of West Harrison, Ind., and one granddaughter.
      
''
        Mrs. Varese is survived by a son from an earlier marriage, Michael T. Norton, and a granddaughter, Sylvia Calderwood, both of Eugene, Ore., and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Mary Wilson of Fort Lee, N.J.; a son, John S., of Alexandria; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Van Voorhis is survived by two daughters, Emily Harris of Rochester, Minn., and Allis D'Amanda of Irondequoit; a son, Eugene, of suburban Webster, N.Y.; 13 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Henry; a daughter, Pamela, of Manhattan; a son, Michael, of Paris, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Van Voorhis is survived by two daughters, Emily Harris of Rochester, Minn., and Allis D'Amanda of Irondequoit; a son, Eugene, of suburban Webster, N.Y.; 13 grandchildren, and 7 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Atkinson is survived by a son from a previous marriage, James Torrey MacIlveen of Huntsville; two grandsons, James Torrey MacIlveen of Decatur, Ala., and Dr. Robert Bruce MacIlveen of Portland, Ore., and six great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her son, Scott, of New Haven.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alastair B.; a son, Robin, of Washington; a daughter, Dorothy B. Moore of Greenwich, Conn., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband Rabbi Arthur J. Zuckerman; a daughter, Carla Friedman of Toms River, N.J.; a son, Stephen Crohn of Manhattan; a sister, Betty Goren of Washington; a brother, David Goren of Philadelphia; three stepchildren, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Judith Rosen of Alexandria; a son, Steven Jacobs of Tucson, Ariz., and nine grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by a son, Richard; a daughter, Barbara; a sister, Letty Osserman, and her brothers, Eugene and Andrew, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, A. Gary; a son by a previous marriage, Leonard O. Baron of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her son, Richard, of Patchogue, L.I.
      
In addition to her daughter, who is the wife of Henry A. Kissinger and also has a home in Manhattan, she is survived by a son, David, of Chevy Chase, Md., and five grandchildren.
      

       Mary Byrne Bocklett, a teacher in Long Beach, L.I., before her retirement, died of a heart attack Saturday at the home of her son, John J. Ferguson, in Greenwich, Conn. She was 76 years old and lived in Naples, Fla.
        Mary Byrne Bocklett, a teacher in Long Beach, L.I., before her retirement, died of a heart attack Saturday at the home of her son, John J. Ferguson, in Greenwich, Conn. She was 76 years old and lived in Naples, Fla.
        Mrs. Bocklett taught school for more than 25 years.

       Mary Byrne Bocklett, a teacher in Long Beach, L.I., before her retirement, died of a heart attack Saturday at the home of her son, John J. Ferguson, in Greenwich, Conn. She was 76 years old and lived in Naples, Fla.
        Mary Byrne Bocklett, a teacher in Long Beach, L.I., before her retirement, died of a heart attack Saturday at the home of her son, John J. Ferguson, in Greenwich, Conn. She was 76 years old and lived in Naples, Fla.
        Mrs. Bocklett taught school for more than 25 years.
Besides her son, she is survived by two daughters, Ella Ferguson of Melville, L.I., and Kathie F. Bushey of Radnor, Pa.; a sister, Katherine Mast of Naples; seven stepchildren, and six grandchildren.
      
Dr. Grambs is survived by her husband, Harold; two daughters, Marya, of San Francisco and Sarah, of Philadelphia; a son, Peter, of New York City, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Harry, of Manhattan; a daughter, Caroline, of Atlanta, and one grandchild.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Sally Robinson of Bennington, Vt., and Ernestine Ruben of Princeton, N.J.; a son, Harry Lewis Winston Jr., of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; 10 grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
In 1984, Franz Josef II turned over the running of the country to his son, Hans Adam, oldest of their five children, but he remained head of state.
      
She is survived by her husband, Marvin; a daughter, a son, her mother, three sisters, seven brothers and six grandchildren.
      
Dr. Greenacre is survived by a daughter, Ann R. Roy of New Orleans; a son, Dr. Peter Richter of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Their tempestuous marriage produced one son, Reuel, and ended in divorce in 1946.
In addition to her husband and son, Miss McCarthy is survived by two stepsons, Daniel West of Los Angeles and Jonathan West of Lodz, Poland; a stepdaughter, Alison West of Manhattan; two brothers, Kevin, of Sherman Oaks, Calif., and Preston, of Millsboro, Del., and two grandchildren.
Surviving are a son, Carl, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Marjorie Kittredge, of Boxford, Mass.
She is survived by a daughter, Jill, of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Michael, of Berkeley, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard Noyes Viets, an American diplomat; three daughters, Alexandra, of Manhattan and Katrina and Marynka of Middleburg, and by a son from a previous marriage, Mark Grabowski of Baltimore.
      
Surviving are her husband, Alan; a daughter, Laurie, and a son, Gordon, both of New York, and a sister, Alice Glass of Plano, Tex.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Joan Bull of New York City; a son, Peter, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a sister, Harriet Bein of Hanover, N.H., and five grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include a son, Stefan Wolff of Gambier, Ohio; two stepsons, Jean-Pierre Aumont, an actor, and Francois Villiers, a film maker, both of Paris; 13 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Her only son, Ruben, born in 1922, was reportedly killed in World War II fighting for the Soviet Union.
She is survived by a son, Max.
      
She is survived by her husband and by their son, Nicolas H. Ekstrom.
      
She is survived by her husband, Francis; a son, John, of Salt Lake City; a daughter, Patricia Phillips of Fairfield, Conn.; six grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Surviving are her son, John, of Bay Shore, L.I.
She is survived by a son, Leonard Winchester, of Terrace Park, Ohio, and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Jay Talbott, of Shaker Heights; her son, Jeffrey Farrar, of Kitty Hawk, N.C., and her mother, Alice Farrar, of Nashua, N.H.
      
Surviving are her son, Leonard Winchester of Cincinnati, and a grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband, Roy; three daughters, Abigail and Letitia, both of Manhattan, and Cordelia Laverack of Darien, Conn.; a son, Roy Jr., of Manhattan, and a grandchild.
      
She is survived by a son, Samuel, of Leverett, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, James L., a judge on the United States Court of International Trade; two daughters, Karen Allen and Kris, both of Manhattan; a son from a former marriage, Norman A. Jenkins, also of Manhattan; a sister, Novella Turner of Portland, Me.
She portrayed his devoted aunt, who was known for her Southern cooking and who helped to rear the widower sheriff's son.
Along with her husband, she is survived by two daughters and a son.
      
Federico, the actress's only son, died in a plane crash in 1981 while making a film in Alaska, prompting her to go into seclusion for several years.
The Spanish national news agency EFE quoted a family representative as saying Miss Mangano's body would be cremated today and the remains sent to New York to be placed next to those of her son.
      
Pringle, the son of a former governor of Jamaica, and to the novelist James M. Cain.
Survivng is a son, John Luft, who shared her home, and a brother, John Fisher, of Newport Beach, Calif.
      
She is survived by her husband, Jules L. Green of Manhattan; a son, Morley Anthony Stern of Los Angeles; a daughter, Susan Cookson of Southfield, Mass.
She is survived by a son, Robert, of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      
Surviving are a son, Jeffrey, of Costa Mesa, Calif.; a sister, Shirley Rapp, of Chicago, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mayor Young, survivors include another son, Dr. Walter Young, eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Thomas; a son, John, of Brookfield, Wis.; a brother, Thomas Cronyn of Plandome; a sister, Nancy C. Knox of Darien, Conn., and one grandson.
      
