She is survived by a son, Bromley Smith Jr. of Kenya, and a daughter, Suzanne Arias of Madrid.
      
She died of emphysema, said a son, Charles Moran 3d of Pelham, Mass.
Besides her son Charles , she is survived by another son, David, of Boulder; a sister, Eva Taylor Holt of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
Besides her son Charles , she is survived by another son, David, of Boulder; a sister, Eva Taylor Holt of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
In addition to her companion, she is survived by a son, Lance R. Mankowski of Brooklyn; her parents, Manlio and Maria Vittoria of Pietrasanta, Italy, and a sister, Alessandra Cappuccio of Florence.
      
She is survived by a son, Jean-Francois.
Also surviving are a daughter, Madeleine Krug of Burke, Va.; a son, Robert, of Northport, L.I.
Surviving are a son, Mark, of Manhattan, and a daughter, Elizabeth Neuffer, of Washington.
      
She is survived by her husband; a son, Philip J., and a daughter, Cynthia J., all of New York.
      
Their son, Crown Prince Alexander, who was born in Britain, traveled to Belgrade, the capital of Yugoslavia, last summer as part of an effort to restore the family dynasty and to bring peace to the Balkans.
In addition to her son and daughter-in-law, Alexandra is survived by three grandchildren, Peter, Philip and Alexander.
      
Besides her daughter Elise, Dr. Clark is survived by a daughter, Ashley S. Pettus, and a son, Brewster W. Pettus, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Whitney Armstrong and Janet York of Manhattan, and a brother, Benjamin Brewster, also of Manhattan.
      
The cause was bone cancer, said her son, Jeffrey, of Brookline, Mass.
In addition to her son Jeffrey, she is survived by another son, John, of Chicago.
      
In addition to her son Jeffrey, she is survived by another son, John, of Chicago.
      
The cause was pneumonia, said her son John, of Evanston, Ill.
        Mrs. Van Doren was born in San Francisco, but grew up in New York City.
In addition to her son John, she is survived by another son, Charles, of Cornwall, Conn., and Cortona, Italy, four grandchildren and one great-grandson.
      
In addition to her son John, she is survived by another son, Charles, of Cornwall, Conn., and Cortona, Italy, four grandchildren and one great-grandson.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Melissa and Sally, both of Manhattan; a son, Allan A.
She is survived by her husband, Bert M.; two daughters, Robin Lee Reisman of Manhattan and Jodie Sue Reisman of Wilton, Conn.; a son, Michael J. of Manhattan; and a sister, Irene Topolcic of Virginia Beach, Va.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Anne Snee, and a son, Godfrey C., both of Manhattan.
      
In 1940, her marriage to Jolson ended, and she retained custody of their 5-year-old adopted son, Al Jr.
They had three daughters and a son.
In addition to her daughter Ms. Lowe and her son Al Jolson Jr., she is survived by another son, John Lowe Jr., and two other daughters, Theresa Hall and Christine Pratt.
      
In addition to her daughter Ms. Lowe and her son Al Jolson Jr., she is survived by another son, John Lowe Jr., and two other daughters, Theresa Hall and Christine Pratt.
      
She played Madelon, a woman who made degrading sacrifices so that her illegitimate son could become a doctor.
"
        Earlier, in 1938, Miss Hayes and her husband adopted a son, James MacArthur, when he was 7 months old.
Plays
        Bab 1920  We Moderns 1923  Caesar and Cleopatra 1925  What Every Woman Knows 1926, 1938, 1954  Coquette 1927  Mary of Scotland 1933  Victoria Regina 1935  Ladies and Gentlemen 1939  Twelfth Night 1940  Harriet 1943  Happy Birthday 1946  The Wisteria Trees 1950  Mrs. McThing 1952  The Skin of Our Teeth 1955, 1961  The Glass Menagerie 1948, 1956, 1961  Time Remembered 1957  A Touch of the Poet 1958  The School for Scandal 1966  Right You Are (If You Think You Are) 1966  We Comrades Three 1966  The Show-Off 1967  The Front Page 1969  Harvey 1970 Films
        The Sin of Madelon Claudet 1931  Arrowsmith 1931  A Farewell to Arms 1932  Night Flight 1933  What Every Woman Knows 1934  Vanessa, Her Love Story 1935  My Son John 1952  Anastasia 1956  Airport 1970 Television
        The Snoop Sisters 1972  Victory at Entebbe 1976  A Family Upside Down 1978  Murder Is Easy 1982  A Caribbean Mystery 1983  Murder With Mirrors 1985
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Fromer is survived by a son, Dr. Carl H., of Staten Island; a daughter, Dr. Sandra A. Stingle of Manhattan; her mother, Bella Siegel of Staten Island; a brother, Jack Siegel of New Rochelle, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. McPherson is survived by her husband of over 60 years, Edward R. McPherson Jr.; two daughters, Anne McPherson Tracy of Ridgefield, Conn., and Jane McPherson Nickerson of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Stephen Mather McPherson of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
Together with her son Terence she founded the annual Frank Fox Memorial Polo Tournament to raise money for public television, museums, youth groups and educational institutions.
She is survived by a son, Peter, of Wellesley, Mass., and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a son, Reid Willis of Edmonton, Alberta, and a daughter, Robin Willis of Manhattan.
      
The cause of death was cancer of the uterus, said her son, Robert P. Riger of Manhattan.
In addition to her son, she is survived by three other children, Christopher Riger of Myrtle Beach, S.C., Victoria Riger Phillips of New Orleans, and Charlotte Riger Hull of West Tisbury, Mass.
She is survived by a daughter, Dr. Glenda Garvey of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Thomas Q. Garvey 3d of Potomac, Md., and a grandson.
      
"
        She is survived by a son, John Leisner of California.
      
Besides her three brothers, Mrs. Boas is survived by two daughters, Frances Jacobs Frawley and Barbara Jacobs Tamerin, both of Manhattan; a son, Robert Allen Jacobs Jr., of Westport, Conn.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She leaves six sons by Mr. Ohrstrom, Ricard Jr. of Greenwich, Conn.; Kenneth of McLean, Va.;, George of Berrville, Va.; Christopher of Strasbourg, France; Barnaby of Tampa, Fla., and Mark of London, all of whom retained the Ohrstrom name, and one son by the Viscount, Esmond Harmsworth of Cambridge, Mass.
Besides her sister, Walden, of Center Harbor, N.H., she is survived by a son, Raphael James Taylor; her parents, Vice Adm. Benedict J. Semmes, retired, and Katherine Ainsworth Semmes of Washington; another sister, Amy Semmes Waite of Cambridge, Mass., and a brother, Dr. B. J. Semmes of Chevy Chase, Md.
      
Mrs. Gerrity is survived by her husband, Edward J. Gerrity; a daughter, Katharine C. 2d of Greenwich; a son, Edward 3d of Rye Brook, N.Y.; two sisters, Angela Marshall of Dalton, Pa., and Grace Kavanagh of Peoria, Ill., and a brother, Robert, of Scranton.
      
She is survived by her husband, A. Felix duPont Jr., a member of the duPont family of Wilmington; two daughters by her previous marriage, Louise Truesdale Loening of Landenberg, Pa., and Priscilla Loening Hanford of Paradise, Calif.; a son, Christopher T. duPont of Ketchum, Idaho; a stepson, Michael Hoyt duPont of Union, Wash.; a stepdaughter, Katharine duPont Gahagan of Wilmington, and a sister, Anne Truesdale Broadhurst of Wilton, Conn.
      
She is survived by a son, John Wilmot of Fremantle, Australia, and four stepdaughters: Patricia Christgau of Woodbury, Conn., Dorothy Zinbardi of Brentwood, L.I., Roberta Wilmot of Idaho and Joan Clarke of Spokane, Wash.
      
Besides her husband, survivors include a daughter, Julianna Sara, and a son, David Stephen; her parents, Dr. Milton Pack and Phyllis Pack of Brooklyn, and two brothers, Dr. Philip Pack of Scarsdale and Dr. Michael Pack of Boston.
      
"
        She married an army pilot captain, Viktor Sokoloff, and they had a son, Valerik.
      
In addition to her daughter Suzy, of Anacortes, Wash., she is survived by a brother, Frank Flanagan, of Phoenix; a sister, Calla Haye, of Santa Fe; another daughter, Holly Hughes of Rowe, N.M.; a son, Antony A. Hughes, of El Paso, Tex.
She was 67 and lived in McLean, Va.
        She was stricken during a vacation and died after heart surgery, said her son John, who lives in Bethesda, Md.
In addition to her husband and son John, Mrs. Feinstein is survived by another son, Robert, and a daughter, Margaret, both of McLean, and a brother, Peter Richman of Lexington, Mass.
      
In addition to her husband and son John, Mrs. Feinstein is survived by another son, Robert, and a daughter, Margaret, both of McLean, and a brother, Peter Richman of Lexington, Mass.
      
Dr. Harrison is survived by her husband, David; a son, Andy of Evanston, Ill.; a daughter, Rachel Harrison of Brooklyn; her parents, Rose and Harry Horowitz of Deerfield Beach, Fla., and a sister, Eleanor Dain of Kingston, R.I.
      
In addition to Ms. Meyerson, of Washington, Dr. Berle is survived by another daughter, Alice Berle Crawford of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a son, Peter A.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her son, Norman.
Besides her son Norman of Los Angeles, she is survived by another son, Kalman, of Woodmere, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Norman of Los Angeles, she is survived by another son, Kalman, of Woodmere, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, James Carroll of Greenfield, Mass; her daughter, Nedda Carroll of High Falls, N.Y.; her niece, Cynthia Leigh Young of New York City; three sisters, Inez Alexakos of Stafford, Va., Jeanette Lucas of Crofton, Md., and Josephine Lee of Lake Katrine, N.Y., and her brother, Eriel Saunders of Willow Springs, N.C.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Evelyn Fyler of Ossining; her son, John Neumann of Carmel, N.Y, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by John Fitzallen Moore of Libertyville, Ill., a son by her first husband, the poet Louis Untermeyer; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Before she was a year old, her mother, Kate, a German-born woman with a son and daughter from a previous marriage, prevailed on her husband to leave the mines.
All were parents of children with the disease, including the Hausmans' son Peter, who died last year.
She is survived by a son from her first marriage, William J.
The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said her son, David.
In addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Natasha Tubelskaya, of Rome.
      
Brown; a son, Adam B. Leff of Los Angeles; a sister, Margaret Bodfish of Orinda, and three stepsons, Samuel Brown of Iron River, Mich., Robert Brown of Cordova, Alaska, and David Brown of Alta, Utah.
      
He was the eldest son of Felix M. Warburg, a young German banker who became a major financier in the United States, whose family mansion on Fifth Avenue is now the Jewish Museum.
Mrs. Antonucci is survived by her husband, Anthony J.; a son, Peter A. of Manhattan; a sister, Marie Oberacker of Amherst, N.Y.; a brother, Anthony Sciolino of Buffalo, and one grandson.
      
She is survived by her huband, Richard; her son, David; her stepdaughter, Jordyn, and her mother, Bea, all of Manhattan, and two sisters, Caroline Anderson of Brooklyn Heights and Martha Hayes of San Francisco.
      
Her survivors include her husband of 20 years, Stanley; a son, Walter Frisch of Manhattan; a daughter, Devin Feldman of Queens; a brother, E. Jerrold Miller of Capri, Italy, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 47 years; three daughters, Christiana MacDonald of Paris, and Bibi Besch and Drea B. Gillogly, both of Los Angeles; a son, Andrew F. Besch of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
The cause was heart failure, said her son, Joseph, a professor in the Harvard School of Business Administration.
Besides her son, Joseph L., survivors include a daughter, Ellen Feingold of Newton; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband and sister of West Cornwall, surviving are two daughters, Anne Bevans of West Cornwall and Jane Duber of Lillooet, British Columbia; a son, John, of West Cornwall, and a granddaughter.
The cause was chronic leukemia, said her son, Richard.
In addition to her son, who is the executive director of the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition in Fort Worth, she is survived by a sister, Aniela Mieczyslawska of London, and a grandchild.
      
Her survivors include her son, Lee K., of Wilmington, N.C.; a daughter, Cathy Prince of White Plains; a brother, Nathan F. Klein of Titusville, Fla.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
In addition to her grandson, she is survived by a son, John G. Simon of New Haven; a daughter, Peggy Traktman, and a sister, Helen Marshall Borchard, both of New York City, and another grandchild.
      
"
        Besides her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a son, Denholm Muir Jacobs of Northeast Harbor; 6 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Constance Cooper Batuscheck of Alexandria, Va.; a son, Kenneth, of Manhattan; a brother, David Buxbaum of Milwaukee, and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Draper is survived by her son, Seth Low Jr., of Syosset, L.I., and her stepdaughter, Penelope Buchanan of Cleveland.
Her survivors include a son, Douglas 3d, and a daughter, Courtney Cramer.
      
Son Died of Leukemia
        Mrs. Kaplan's first child, David, was retarded, and died of leukemia at the age of 9 in 1952, two years after she opened the fledgling association's first day camp for 24 children.
Mrs. Kaplan is survived by another son, Michael, of Manhattan, and a grandson.
      
Carrying on a family tradition, she raced horses throughout the country with her husband, and their son Aaron became a handicapper, starting at the age of 8.
Mrs. Martineau is survived by 2 daughters from her first marriage, Fern de Narvaez of Palm Beach and Wendy Holt of Cool, Calif.; a son from her second marriage, Michael, of Granville, Mass.
Miss Ballard is survived by a son, Robert F. R. Ballard of Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Liza Dietz Gard of London; six grandchildren, and two stepgrandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1949, Miss Smithson is survived by a son and two daughters.
      
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Dr. Nils Olson, a son.
In addition to Dr. Nils Olson of Frederick, she is survived by another son, Eric W. Olson of Stockholm, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter and son, Mrs. Morrell is survived by four grandchildren.
      
The cause was cancer, said her son, Timothy Ratner of Manhattan.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Dr. Stephanie LaFarge of Hastings-on-Hudson; her companion, Len Tillett of Norwich, England; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Her other survivors include a son, Charles of Chevy Chase, Md.
Survivors include a son, Sargent P., of Hamilton; two daughters, Louise Alden Cohen of Cambridge and Charlotte P. Armstrong of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
Her other survivors include a son, Charles of Chevy Chase, Md.
She had been ill with pneumonia, but no cause of death was listed on the death certificate, said her son, Dr. Michael Horowitz of Evanston, Ill.
        Ms. Karin was born in Vilna, Poland, in 1919.
"
        In addition to her son, Ms. Karin is survived by a daughter, Rochelle Axelrud of Woodmere, L.I.
She is survived by her husband, Eugene J. Morris, and their son, Richard.
      
In 1948, Miss Allen played a distraught wife and mother in "Edward, My Son.
She is survived by her daughter, Anna, who performed with Miss Allen on the stage, and by a son, Daniel, who is also an actor.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Penelope Coker Hall of Millbrook, N.Y.; a son, James L. Coker 4th of Stonington, Conn., and Charleston, and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her husband, Peter; a son, Daniel; a daughter, Jessica, and her parents.
      
She is survived by a son, Luke Breit of Mendocino, Calif.; a daughter, Miranda Breit of Piney River, Va.,and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 50 years, Charles; two daughters, Susan Curcio of Chatham, Mass., and Shelley Brown of Glen Ellen, Vt.; a son, Philip Atwood Carpenter of Chester, Vt.; a brother, Robert Winnett of Pittsburgh, and eight grandchildren.
      
; a half-sister, Linda Levy of Boulder, Colo.; a son, Peter, of San Francisco; a daughter, Julie Johnson of Norwalk, Conn., and a grandson, Travis Johnson, also of Norwalk.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, Edward Rosenthal of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a daughter, Hannah Wit of Oakland, Calif.; a son, David Wit of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Julie Sovern of New York City and Elizabeth Sovern of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; two stepsons, Jeffrey Sovern of Queens and Douglas Sovern of Oakland, and four grandchildren.
      
She died unexpectedly after a sudden brain hemorrhage, said her son, Wardell.
The cause was complications from several strokes, said her son, Eugene Dennis Vrana.
She is survived by her son, Ranald H. Jr. of Denver; her daughter, Anne M. Thomas of Locust Valley, L.I.
She is survived by her husband and a son, Gus Powell, who attends Oberlin College in Ohio.
      
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Kim Allen of Minneapolis; a son, Kerry Allen of New York City; a sister, Mary Behr, and two grandchildren.
      
It was James Cromwell, the son and grandson of prominent yachtsmen and the stepson of a partner in the banking house of J. P. Morgan & Company.
She is survived by her husband, J. Mitchell Jablons; a daughter, Pamela Jablons of Manhattan; a son, Dr. David Jablons of San Francisco, and a sister, Grace Burke of Colonie, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a son, Jonathan, and two grandsons, David Robert and Michael James, all of Atlanta, and a niece, Judith de Mille Donelan of Easton, Md.
      
The cause was complications after a stroke, said a son, Peter Butler of St. Paul.
She is survived by a son, Kirill, who lives in Moscow.
      
; a son, Jeremy of Manhattan; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was emphysema, her son, Warren Arthur Logan, said.
She is survived by her son, who lives in Manhattan, and a sister, Esther Harris of Philadelphia.
      
On the screen, Miss McNeil was stolid, voluminous and serene as a mother trying to control her son and wanting to buy her family a respectable home.
Mrs. Harris is survived by her husand of 40 years, James T.; a daughter, Karen H. Weidemann of Korsor, Denmark; a son, Christopher T. of Medford, Mass., and a grandson.
      
She is survived by a son, Mark Tondel of Lee, Mass.
      
Ms. Lindbergh is also survived by a daughter, Constance Feydy, and a son, Marek Sapieyevski, both of Thetford Center; two step-daughters, Elisabeth Perrin, of Seattle and Amy Perrin, of White River Junction, Vt.; a sister, Reeve Tripp, of Barnet, and three brothers, Jon, of North Bend, Wash., Land, of Missoula, Mont., and Scott, of Brasilia.
Her father died in the influenza epidemic of 1918, and Mrs. Williams moved her daughter and son, David, to Los Angeles, where Myrna attended Venice High School and occasionally taught dancing.
Her father died in the influenza epidemic of 1918, and Mrs. Williams moved her daughter and son, David, to Los Angeles, where Myrna attended Venice High School and occasionally taught dancing.
The cause of death was respiratory failure, her son, Gordon Brackett, said.
She is survived by her husband of 53 years, Ward Brackett of Westport, a portrait painter who also designs stamps for the Postal Service, and her son, Gordon Brackett of Ridgefield, Conn.
      
She is survived by her son, Eugene, of Anacortes, Wash., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. Robin Briehl of Lewisboro, N.Y.; a brother, Peter Hawley of Yonkers; two sisters, Elizabeth Delza Munson and Sophia Delza Glassgold, both of Manhattan, and one granddaughter.
      
She is survived by a son, Vladimir Mlynar, and a daughter, Michaela Barlova, both of Prague.
      
