Surviving are her daughter, Stella Wilkinson of London; a son, Michael, of Cambridge; six grandchildren, and a sister, Stella Ednam of Argentina.
      
She died of natural causes, said her son, Joseph Seton, of New York City.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Peggy, of Westchester County; a sister, Rose S. Allen, of Newton, Mass.
Surviving are her husband, Milton; a son, Michael, and a daughter, Eve, both of White Plains; her father, Abraham Letich of Queens; two sisters, Davida Luttenberg of New Hyde Park, L.I., and Judith Kaplan of Ocala, Fla., and a brother, Larry Letich of Verona, N.J.
      
Besides her brother, the former Congressman and Governor, she is survived by her second husband, Albert G. Isaacs Jr.; a son, Edward E. Mayer of Esher, Surrey, England; a stepdaughter, Betsy Cooper of Waverly, Pa.; two sisters, Katherine Rozendaal of Schenectady, N.Y., and Sara Scranton Linen of Greenwich, Conn.; three stepgrandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Alexander, of New Rochelle, N.Y.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Nancy Gross Blase of Seattle, and Elizabeth Gross Holland of Downers Grove, Ill.; a son, Edward A.
Surviving are her husband, Joseph H., a retired judge; a daughter, Patricia Vradenburg, a screenwriter, of Encino, Calif.; a son, Michael, editor of Tikkun magazine, of Berkeley, Calif.; a brother, Irving Hirschman of Basking Ridge, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, Stephen A., the music director of the Washington Chamber Symphony, of Washington; a brother, Walter H., the former chief executive of Triangle Publications and the founder of TV Guide, of Philadelphia and near Palm Springs, Calif.; four sisters, Enid Haupt, Janet Hooker, Lita Hazen and Evelyn Hall, all of Manhattan, and six grandsons.
      
She is survived by her parents, Mr. Lutz and Mona Furuki, who now live in Los Angeles; a son, Maximillian, and a daughter, China, both of Pacific Palisades, and a sister, Adelle Lutz of Manhattan, who is the wife of the rock musician David Byrne.
      
She is survived by her parents, Mr. Lutz and Mona Furuki, who now live in Los Angeles; a son, Maximillian, and a daughter, China, both of Pacific Palisades, and a sister, Adelle Lutz of Manhattan, the wife of the rock musician David Byrne.
      
She is survived by her husband, W. Howard Chase; two daughters, Anne, of Glen Rock, N.J., and Alison, of Kinnelon, N.J.; one son, Thomas, of North Plainfield, N.J.; eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, W. Howard Chase; two daughters, Anne, of Glen Rock, N.J., and Alison, of Kinnelon, N.J.; one son, Thomas, of North Plainfield, N.J.; eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Nicolas, an actor, and a daughter, Marina, both of Manhattan, and by a brother, Fred Nebelthau of Bremen.
She died of heart failure, said her son, Joseph Uris of Manhattan.
"
        In addition to her son, she is survived by a sister, Mimi Shapiro of Manhattan.
      

        Ronnie Paris, a playwright, novelist and teacher, died on Feb. 4 at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 67 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Bearsville, N.Y.
        She died of an aneurysm, said her son Peter Stein of New Haven.
In addition to her son Peter, she is survived by another son, Alexander Stein of Manhattan; a brother, William Paris of Nashville, and two granddaughters.
      
In addition to her son Peter, she is survived by another son, Alexander Stein of Manhattan; a brother, William Paris of Nashville, and two granddaughters.
      
She died of respiratory failure, said her son, Flaviu Romanul of Boston.
In addition to her son, she is survived by four grandchildren.
      
In 1954, she and her husband and son, both of them also lawyers, became the first family to be simultaneously sworn in to practice before the United States Supreme Court.
Surviving are her son, Robinson O. Everett of Durham, retired chief judge of the United States Court of Military Appeals, and three grandsons.
      
; a son, Jonathan, of Tempe, Ariz.; her mother, Minnie Segal of Montreal, and two brothers, Bernard and Henry Segal, both of Montreal.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mark Pearce, and a son, Alexander.
      
Surviving are her husband, David J. Hopwood; a daughter, Kari E. Kaplan of Manhattan; a son, Kenneth N. Kaplan of Queens; her mother, Claire Nossiter of Manhattan; a brother, Robert Singer of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and three stepchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Justin Greene of New York; two brothers, Martin and William Paul Siegel of Fort Worth, and a sister, Caryl Stern of New York.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by her mother, Juliana Koo of Manhattan, who is the widow of V. K. Wellington Koo, a Nationalist Chinese diplomat who was an ambassador to Washington and a member of the International Court of Justice at the Hague; three daughters, Tracy Tang Limpe, Dana and Kristin, all of Manhattan; a son, Kevin, of Manhattan, and two sisters, Genevieve Young of Manhattan and Shirley Young of Grosse Pointe, Mich., and Manhattan.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Gary, of San Francisco, and two daughters, Lisa, of Philadelphia, and Eve Lynes, of San Mateo, Calif.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Mia Fonssagrives-Solow, a sculptor and jewelry designer, and a son, Tom Penn, a metal designer, both of New York City; by two sisters, Lilian Bernstone and Kajsa Lundquist, both of Sweden, and by two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Judge Aileen Hirschman Belford of Fall River, Mass., and E. Judith Hirschman Berger of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Richard James Hirschman of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      
She lived in Point Lookout, L.I., and Boca Raton, Fla.
        Miss Sherman, who used her maiden name professionally, had kept her age a secret and left "explicit instructions" that it remain so, her son said.
Miss Sherman is survived by her husband of 56 years, Henry S. Maurer; their son, Henry S. Jr., of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a daughter, Arnelle Liblit of Commack, L.I., and one grandson.
      
She is survived by a son, Peter Reed Hanchak of Philadelphia, and two grandchildren.
      
Miss MacGrath (her name was pronunced lew-EEN mac-GRAW) made her Broadway debut in 1948 in a starring role in "Edward, My Son," by Robert Morley and Noel Langley, after first performing in the play in London.
She died of liver failure as a result of cancer, said her son Ralph Scaffidi Jr.
In addition to her son, who lives in Bakersfield, she is survived by her husband, another son, Peter, of Clovis, N.M.; a daughter, Susan Chidgey of Bakersfield; a brother, Elvy Orsborn, and a sister, Louise Orsborn.
      
In addition to her son, who lives in Bakersfield, she is survived by her husband, another son, Peter, of Clovis, N.M.; a daughter, Susan Chidgey of Bakersfield; a brother, Elvy Orsborn, and a sister, Louise Orsborn.
      
She is survived by her son, Rene Camano, and her daughter, Rainbow Garcia, both of the Bronx.
      
She is survived by a son, Ferdy C. of Greenwich, and a sister, Leontine Tintner of Vienna, Austria.
      
She is survived by a son, Eric McDonald, of Langhorn, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      
She died of natural causes after a lingering illness, said her son, Dr. S. A. Standen, who lives in London.
She is survived by her husband, Gabriel; a son, Jeffrey, of Arlington, Mass.
Mrs. Macfadden is survived by a son, Jack of Brooklyn; a daughter, Carol Tumbridge of Denver; five grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Tenzer is survived by a son, Barry, of Manhattan and Quogue, L.I.
Dr. Estrin died of a heart attack, said her son, James.
She is survived by her son, Peter, of Manhattan; a daughter, Betty Hess, of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Miss Joel is survived by a son, Eric Miller of Manhattan, and three brothers, Irving Tarnower of Teaneck, N.J., Dr. William Tarnower of Topeka, Kans., and Gerald Tarnower of Dallas.
      
Besides her daughter, who lives on Staten Island, Ms. Brown is survived by a son, Christopher, of Portland, Me., and a brother, Peter Stettenheim, of East Plainfield, Vt.
      
Her survivors include a son, Martin Russ of Oakville, Calif.; two daughters, S. K. Dunne of Rutherford, Calif., and Maggie Geiger Turner of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
Dr. Pulaski is survived by her husband of 52 years, Charles A. Pulaski; a son, Charles A. Jr., of Tempe, Ariz.; a daughter, Elizabeth Mertens of Glen Head, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
She died of lung cancer, said her son Henry Sears Lodge.
Mrs. Bryce is survived by a brother, Huntington Hartford 2d of Manhattan; a daughter, Nuala O'Donnell Pell of Newport, R.I. and Washington; a son, Columbus O'Donnell of London; eight grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her mother, Gertrude Feldenkreis of Atlantic City; a daughter, Eleanor Smith, and a son, David A., both of Santa Monica; a sister, Nancy Wurman of Philadelphia, and a brother, Howard Feldenkreis of Leominster, Mass.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Dr. Noel Nathanson of Great Neck, L.I.

        Rebecca C. Simonson, a New York City schoolteacher active in school affairs in the 1940's and 1950's, died on Sunday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in North Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 95 years old and lived in Peekskill, N.Y.
        She died of congestive heart failure, said her son, David C. Simonson.
She is survived by her son, David, of Arlington, Va.; a brother, Sidney, of Norwalk, Conn.; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
A son, Peter, died in 1970.
      
Mrs. Sherman died of complications from breast cancer, said her son, Robert Cohen.
In addition to her son, who lives in Philadelphia, Mrs. Sherman is survived by her second husband, Melvin Sherman, a daughter, Barbara Cohen Stanley, of San Francisco, a brother Stanley Silverstein, of Charleston, W.Va., and five grandchildren.
      
She died of lung cancer, said her son Henry Sears Lodge.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Sven Ley, of Munich, and two children from a previous marriage, Karin Srb, of Munich, and Kristian Srb, of Water Mill, N.Y.
      
Dr. Sher died of cancer, said her son, Jonathan.
In addition to her son, Jonathan, of Philadelphia, she is survived by her husband, Dr. Norman Sher; a daughter, Katherine, of San Francisco, and a brother, Dr. Robert Hollenberg, of Hamilton, Ontario.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Beatrice Holden Guthrie of Jackson Hole, Wyo., Audrey Holden Charlson Denegre of New Canaan, Conn., and Sonia H. Evers of San Francisco; a son, Michael H., of Greenwich, Conn., and 11 grandchildren.
      
A son, George A. Miller, said the exact cause of death was not known.
In addition to her son George, of Mountain Home, N.C., she is survived by two other sons, William D. Miller Jr. of Bethesda, Md., and Clyde H. Ray 3d of Cullowhee, N.C.; a daughter, Caroline Ray Morgan of Annapolis, Md.
After the death in 1979 of her only son, Robert Livingston, who for a time had been the publisher of More magazine, she established the Livingston Awards for newspaper, magazine and television journalists under 35 years old.
Surviving are a son, Richard P. Mathias of Wiesbaden, Germany; two daughters, Natalie Wolfe of Manhattan and Sasha Wolfe of Brooklyn; a brother, Rudy Zerabica, and a sister, Josephine Simmons, both of Trafford, Pa., and one granddaughter.
      
She died of breast cancer, said her son, Lance.
In addition to her son, she is survived by her father, Henry.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Douglas, of Covelo, Calif.; her parents, Lil and Albert Tarshis of Las Vegas, Nev.; a sister, Lolo Berkoff, and a brother, Stanley Gordon, both of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
"
        Miss Brown is survived by a son, Jonathan.
      
Mrs. Mohorovicic is survived by her son, Jesse Roper Mohorovic of Scituate, Mass., who was baptized at St. Patrick's Cathedral after being rescued by the destroyer Jesse Roper; two daughters, Vesna Jurick of River Edge and Grace Murray of New York City, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 71 years, Fausto Santolalla Bernal, 101 years old; two daughters, Irene Santolalla Silva and Maria Teresa Santolalla Silva, and a son, Javier Santolalla Silva, all of Lima; nine grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Peterson is survived by her husband, Charles; a son, Wesley; a daughter, Ronnie, and three grandchildren, all of Middletown.
      
Mrs. Kallir is survived by a daughter, Evamarie, of Vienna; a son, John, of Scarsdale, N.Y., and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Virginia Wren Moore of Lake Forest, Ill., and a son, Christopher S. Wren of Manhattan, who is editor of new projects for The New York Times.
      
Mrs. Somerville is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Kelley; a son, Chad; a twin sister, Tamara Westover, all of Rye, and her father, Paul Buiar of Pound Ridge, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Granowitz is survived by two daughters, Ida Granowitz of Manhattan, and Tina Marks of Hartsdale, N.Y.; a son, Philip of Stanford, Conn.; a brother, Milton Smith of Port Chester, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Fordyce died of heart failure, her son, James Woodard Fordyce, said.
She is survived by her sister, Mary Lasker of Manhattan and Greenwich, Conn.; her son, James of Greenwhich, and three grandsons.
      
"Miss Nelson misses no nuance of reality that the part offers, and in one moment -- when she mourns her murdered son Abel -- she touches true elegy," he wrote.
"Miss Nelson misses no nuance of reality that the part offers, and in one moment -- when she mourns her murdered son Abel -- she touches true elegy," he wrote.
Mrs. Ashworth died of a ruptured aorta, said her son, Osbourne Orlando Ashworth Jr. of Alexandria, Va.
        Mrs. Ashworth grew up in Florida and moved to Virginia with her family as a teen-ager.
In addition to her son Osbourne, Mrs. Ashworth is survived by another son, Dr. John Sheriden Ashworth of Richmond.
      
In addition to her son Osbourne, Mrs. Ashworth is survived by another son, Dr. John Sheriden Ashworth of Richmond.
      
Besides her daughter, a Manhattan resident, Ms. Lobsenz is survived by her husband, Dr. Harry Abrahams; a son, Michael Lobsenz of Boyds, Md., and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her son, Hugh Jr. of Bernardsville, 11 grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Huttner is survived by a son, Dr. James F. Brodey of West Hartford, Conn.; a stepson, Richard Huttner of Middletown, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Hilary Fylstra of Lake Tahoe, Nev.; a sister, Celia Hartley of New Port Richey, Fla.; and four grandchildren.
      
She died of a heart attack, said her son, William R. MacKaye of Washington.
By the time she began her career as a columnist, she was the author of nine mystery novels, and she believed she was successful as a columnist, her son said in an interview, because of her training as a storyteller.
"She would always tell the couples that unless they told their friends they'd never be recognized," her son said.
Her son said her explanation for this was that she refused to take any science courses.
In her addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter-in-law, Mary Anne MacKaye, and five grandchildren.
      
Ms. Buckley is survived by her son, Thomas L. Thron of San Francisco, and her fiance, Herbert Boyer of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children from a previous marriage, a son, Jayson Kuhn of Silver Spring, Md., and a daughter, Jennifer Irwin of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and by two grandchildren.
      
She died of pancreatic cancer, said her son Peter Brintnall Cooper.
In addition to her son Peter, of Woodbridge, she is survived by another son, James Nicoll Cooper of Cambridge, Mass.
In addition to her son Peter, of Woodbridge, she is survived by another son, James Nicoll Cooper of Cambridge, Mass.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Nicolas, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Jenifer, of Boston; two stepdaughters, Emily Paine of Los Angeles and Rachel Wilson of London, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Robinson died of septicemia, a blood infection, said a son, Dr. James P. Comer of North Haven, Conn.
Besides her son James, Mrs. Robinson is survived by two other sons, Dr. Norman D. Comer and Dr. Charles Comer, both of East Chicago; two daughters, Louise Comer of Eufala, Ala., and Thelma C. Morris of Gary, Ind.
In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a son, Carl T., of Toronto; another daughter, Marianna M. Clark, of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a sister, Oleta McCarty, of Pensacola, Fla.; 13 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She died of complications from pancreatic cancer, said her son, David.
Besides her son, of Plainville, she is survived by her husband, Milton M. Koskoff; a daughter, Harriet K. Ziering of San Francisco; two brothers, Alan and Daniel Farber, both of Worcester, Mass; a sister, Lillian Feinberg of New York City, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by a son, Jeffrey Miles of Los Angeles, and by a daughter, Leslie Coren of Hallandale, Fla.
      
She is survived by her companion, Gloria I. Joseph of St. Croix; a son, Jonathan Rollins, and a daughter, Elizabeth Lorde-Rollins, both of New York City, and four sisters, Helen Lorde, Phyllis Blackwell and Marjorie and Mavis Jones.
      
Surviving are her husband, Martin; a son, Steven; a daughter, Susan Weprin, who is married to a nephew of the Speaker, and a granddaughter, all of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Haussamen is survived by a son, Dale Hemmerdinger of Manhattan; a daughter, Lyn Hemmerdinger of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
      
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Richard David Jones of Three Rivers, Mass.
She is survived by her son, Klaus, of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and three granddaughters, Karen Trautlein of Wilkes-Barre, Angela Holm of San Diego and Jessica Werbin of New Haven, Conn.
      
Ms. Yard is survived by a son, Michael Saito, and three daughters, Michelle, Mikiko and Mary Catherine Saito, and her mother, Dorothy, all of Sea Girt; two sisters, Elizabeth Rasmussen, of Chico, Calif., and Victoria Steiner, of Seattle; four brothers, William, of Modesto, Calif., Carl Jr., of Wall Township, N.J., Richard, of Jackson Township, N.J., and Stephen, of Oroville, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Senator John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia, and three daughters, Sandra Ferry of Massachusetts, Hope Aldrich of New Mexico, and Alida R. Messinger of Minnesota.
Her only son, Jan Stacey, died in 1990.
She died of colon cancer, said her son David.
Besides her son David, of Zionsville, Ind., she is survived by her husband, Howard, and another son, Phillip Theodore, also of Brooklyn.
      
Besides her son David, of Zionsville, Ind., she is survived by her husband, Howard, and another son, Phillip Theodore, also of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by her husband, Kevin; a son, Matthew; three daughters, Anna, Katherine and Margaret, all of Bedford Hills; her mother, Anna Bondhus; her brother, Nelson, of Farmington, Conn., and a sister, Diana Bortolin, of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      
The Marquesa, who was widely known as Mimi Herrera, died of heart failure due to complications from cancer, said her son, Reinaldo Herrera, whose wife is the fashion designer Caroline Herrera.
She had been in declining health for a year, said her son, Ian von Franckenstein of Kentland, Calif.
        Miss Boyle wrote four dozen books, including many works of fiction, seven books of poetry and four books for children.
Her son said her last new book to be published was was "Words That Must Somehow Be Said: Selected Essays of Kay Boyle" (North Point Press, 1985).
In addition to her son, an actor whose stage name is Ian Swift, she is survived by a sister, Joan Detweiler of Sarasota, Fla.; four daughters, Sharon Cowling of Vezenobres, France; Kathe Vail, who lives outside Paris; Clover Vail of New York City, and Faith Gude of Boston; 17 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bernstein collaborated with her son on "Arias and Barcarolles," a song cycle that received a Grammy Award in 1991 for best contemporary composition.
Mrs. Bernstein is survived by a daughter, Shirley Anne Bernstein of New York, a son, Burton Bernstein of Bridgewater, Conn., and five grandchildren.
      
She died after a stroke, a son, Peter Howard Crowley, said.
In addition to her son Peter, of Cleveland, she is survived by two other sons, Kenneth Michael Crowley of Durham, N.C., and Leonard Kay Crowley of Arlington, Va.
      
Mrs. Saunders died of cancer, said her son, Anthony D. Saunders, of Stamford, N.Y.
        Mrs. Saunders received a bachelor's degree from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1949, a master's degree from Columbia University School of Social Work in 1976, and a certificate in psycholanalytic training from the Institute for Contemporary Psychotherapy in 1979.
In addition to her son, Anthony, Mrs. Saunders is survived by two stepsons, Michael T. of Toronto, and Mark F. of the Bronx; two stepdaughters, Joan S. Markham of Yonkers, and Frances S. Hoffman of Mercersville, N.J., and six grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her son, Albert G., of South Orange; two daughters, Edith Segall of Harrison, N.Y., and Ann Scott of Windsor, Maine; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Andrew, of Longmont, Colo.; two daughters, Laurie Braun of New Rochelle, N.Y., and Carol Shutzer of Swampscott, Mass.
She died of breast cancer, according to her son Kelly Candaele, whose 1988 documentary about his mother's career, "A League of Their Own," inspired last summer's movie of the same name.
"
        According to Mrs. Collins, the treasurer of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League Players Association, Mrs. St. Aubin's stance and swing are almost perfectly preserved in her son Casey Candaele, a switch-hitting infielder for the Houston Astros.
