She is survived by her husband, Antonio Gonzalez, a gypsy flamenco guitarist; two daughters, and a son.
      
Besides her husband and her daughter, of San Francisco, she is survived by another daughter, Victoria P. Corbett of Manhattan; a son, David W., of Mountain View, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Joel H. Hupper; a daughter, Anne Gans of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a son, David of Sudbury, Mass.
"
        Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Paul of Orwell, Vt.; two daughters, Suzanne Stone of Narbeth, Pa., and Joanna Stone of North Leverett, Mass.
She is survived by two daughters, Joan, of Gambier, Ohio, and Wendy, of Falls Creek, N.M.; a son, Frank, of Manhattan; a brother, Bernard Liebman, of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., and one grandson.
      
In addition to her husband, Dr. Andre-Schwartz is survived by a son, Louis-George Schwartz of New York City; two sisters, Francoise Poutiers of Bordeaux, France, and Claude Andre of Paris, and a brother, Jean-Pierre Andre, also of Paris.
      
She is survived by her son, George Kinnell of Canyon, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Beryl Jackson of Avon, England, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by two brothers, Paul E. Manheim of New York City and Frank J. Manheim of London; a sister, Louise Espy of Manhattan; three daughters, the former State Parks Commissioner Joan K. Davidson, Elizabeth K. Fonseca and Mary E. Kaplan, all of Manhattan; a son, Richard D. Kaplan of Manhattan; seven grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was complications from AIDS, said her son Tom Pittman.
"
        Her son Tom said that over the last four to six weeks her health went into a  significant decline.
She is survived by her husband; a son, Luke, of Cortona; a daughter, Abigail Vazquez of San Francisco; two grandchildren, and a sister, Ethel Braun of Manhattan.
      
The cause was cancer, said her son, Paul Horwitz.
In addition to her son, of Concord, Mass., she is survived by a sister, Natalie Barr of Lamoine, Me., and three grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, of Cambridge, Mass., she is survived by her mother, Freda Tabachnick of Manhattan; a son, David Newbro, also of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
She is survived by two daughters, Clarinda, of Vierset-Barse, Belgium, and Ellen S. Kean of Weston, Conn.; a son, Lloyd, of Manhattan; 11 grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; a son, John; a daughter, Lily Clare; two stepsons, Cosmo and Justin Jencks, all of London, and her mother, Clare Lady Keswick of Portrack, Scotland.
      
With her aunt, Annette E. Church, she wrote a biography of her grandfather and father, "The Robert R. Churches of Memphis: A Father and Son Who Achieved in Spite of Race" (Burke's, 1974).
Dr. Swap is survived by her husband, Walter; a son, Clifford; a daughter, Alison, all of Winchester; her parents, John and Pauline McAllister of Fairfield, Conn.; two sisters, Joan Howard of Winterville, Ga., and June McAllister of Stratford, Conn., and a brother, Jef McAllister of Great Falls, Va.
      
She is survived by her son, Scott, of Los Angeles.
      
"
        Mrs. Logan, who was married three times, is survived by her husband, Roosevelt Logan; a son, Johnnine Watkins of Moss Point, Miss; a sister, Louise Blackman of Pensacola, Fla.; six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      
"
        According to her son Richard, Mrs. Weinberg's had become the leading brand of chopped liver at kosher counters from New York to Chicago by the time she retired in 1989.
In addition to Richard, of Mamaroneck, N.Y., Mrs. Weinberger is survived by another son, Sidney, of Boca Raton, and six grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Charles M. Kinsolving Jr.; a son, Ronald Hammer of Darien, Conn.; a brother, Dr. Richard Brockman of Manhattan; a sister, Susan Brockman of Manhattan; her stepmother, Elizabeth Brockman of Manhattan, and one grandson.
She is survived by her husband of 54 years, Burton; a daughter, Prof. Sari Biklen of Syracuse; a son, State Representative Alex Knopp of Norwalk, Conn.; two sisters, Isabelle Yolen and Sylvia Wittenberg, both of Laguna Beach, Calif.; a brother, Leonard Irving of Fairfield, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, who was the Lieutenant Governor of Texas from 1973 to 1991 and was recently named chancellor of the University of Houston, and her daughter, Jessica Catto, of San Antonio, she is survived by a sister, Mrs. Loy Loving, of Weslaco, Tex., 8 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Joan, of Manhattan, Mrs. Simpson is survived by a son, Jeffrey, also of Manhattan, and three grandsons.
      
In addition to her sister, also of Tucson, she is survived by a son, Jay Cahill of Grandview, Mo.
Miss Brooks was active in promoting her husband's political career and that of Kennedy, who was their elder son's godfather.
She is survived by her husband, the writer and producer Norman Corwin; a daughter, Diane Corwin Okarski of Spokane, Wash., and a son, Anthony, of Thousand Oaks.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Kidder is survived by her son, Michael R. Kidder of New Hampshire, and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Mr. Ramsay, a scientist and writer whom she married in 1988; a daughter, Ann Luskey Weir, and a son, Randolph Kidder Luskey, both of Washington; her father and a brother, Michael Randolph Kidder of Spofford, N.H.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Deborah Bradley Donnelly of Roxbury, Conn., and Bonnie Bradley Anderson of Westport; a son, James Peters Bradley of Fairfield, and six grandchildren.
      
The cause of death was stomach cancer, according to her son, Hugh H. Mo, a lawyer in New York.
In 1954, at the invitation of Chiang Ching-kuo, a son of Chiang Kai-shek who later became President of Taiwan, Ms. Hsu visited Taiwan and joined the Government newspaper, China Daily News, where she covered international politics.
In 1985, the Chinese community in New York was in an uproar when Ms. Hsu and her son, Mr. Mo, who was serving as a Deputy Police Commissioner in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch, accepted an invitation from the Chinese Government and visited the mainland.
Her survivors include a son, Farley, of Portland, Ore.; three daughters, Laurie Welch of Washington, Margaret Welch of Seattle, and Molly Welch of Greenfield, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      
They had a son, Khari, now 22 and a student at Morehouse College in Atlanta, and a daughter, Maya, 18, who plans to attend Spelman next year.
Surviving are a son, Michael, of Beacon Falls, Conn.; two stepdaughters, Janice Albert of Rome and Marilyn Albert of Brooklyn, and two grandchildren.
      
In most cases, the trust provided the funds for purchases, among them two important South Indian bronzes, a 14th-century "Yashoda and Krishna" and an 11th-century "Shiva, Parvati and their son Skanda," for the museum's Irving Galleries of South and Southeast Asian Art.
Besides her husband of 51 years, Sol Dollinger, Mrs. Dollinger is survived by their son, Ronald, also of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
She had been in poor health since suffering a stroke about 18 months ago, her son, Bruce, said.
In addition to Calvin Griffith and her son, Mrs. Haynes is survived by two brothers and one sister.
      
Mrs. Delafield is survived by two daughters, Clelia D. Carey and Cynthia Delafield, both of Baltimore; a son, Walter B., of New York City; two sisters, Mary B. Henderson of Hunter, N.Y., and Yolanda Jaeckel of Sarasota, seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Fisher is survived by a son, Bruce; a sister, Helen Huggins; four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sister, of Encino, Calif., Miss Andrews is survived by a daughter, Aleda Hunt, and a son, Peter Levy, both of Salt Lake City; by Ms. Wells, whom she adopted and who lived with her in Auburn, Calif.; Steve Sharpe of Los Angeles, whom she considered a foster son, and one grandchild.
In addition to her sister, of Encino, Calif., Miss Andrews is survived by a daughter, Aleda Hunt, and a son, Peter Levy, both of Salt Lake City; by Ms. Wells, whom she adopted and who lived with her in Auburn, Calif.; Steve Sharpe of Los Angeles, whom she considered a foster son, and one grandchild.
"I once asked my grandfather, and he wouldn't tell me either," her son Michael Goodman said yesterday.
"
        The date made her a triple Aries, and Mrs. Goodman, a five-foot-or-so dynamo fit the astrological profile to a T. "She was pushy," her son said.
After reading "Letters from Linda" on a radio program, her son said, she adopted the name Linda.
In addition to her son Michael, who is a resident of Keaau, Hawaii, she is survived by another son, William Snyder of Colorado Springs; a daughter, Jill Goodman, of Manchester, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Michael, who is a resident of Keaau, Hawaii, she is survived by another son, William Snyder of Colorado Springs; a daughter, Jill Goodman, of Manchester, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Christopher, of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Christopher, of Manhattan.
      
Retirement was difficult for her at first, said her son, Paul, who took over the shop.
In addition to her son, she is survived by her husband Dr. Leo S. Palitz and a sister, Pauline Sorkin, all of New York; two grandchildren, and five great-grandsons.
      
She, her husband and son set up shop in Long Beach in a rented Quonset hut and began selling pies in 1948.
She is survived by her son and three grandchildren.
      
The actress, who converted to Islam in the 1940's, is survived by a son, Zaky Fateen Abdel Wahab.
      
The cause was cancer, her son, James, said.
In addition to their son, James S. Baumann of Manhattan, Mrs. Baumann is survived by a sister,  Susan Behrend of Philadelphia, and a brother, Fred Hirschhorn Jr. of Old Greenwich, Conn.
      
To all practical purposes she retired about five years ago, after serving as  adviser to the costume department at Santa Barbara City College, her son Peter Dane said.
In addition to her son Peter Dane, of Las Vegas, she is survived by another son, Stephen Dane of Los Angeles, and a half-brother, Allan Willet of Carlsbad,  Calif.
      
In addition to her son Peter Dane, of Las Vegas, she is survived by another son, Stephen Dane of Los Angeles, and a half-brother, Allan Willet of Carlsbad,  Calif.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Mary Jane Goff of Upper Saddle River, N.J.;  a son, Stanley, of Los Angeles; six grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Anthony H. and a daughter, Dorothy Smith, both of Jacksonville; 10 grandchildren and 24 great-grandchildren.
      
In December 1929 she married the son of Henri Matisse, Pierre, who was to become a distinguished art dealer on Madison Avenue.
Ms. Sutter is survived by her son, Joshua C. Empson of Greenwich; her parents, Clifford S. and Suzanne T. Sutter of Osterville, Mass.
Surviving are another son, Eli, a Manhattan restaurateur; eight grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are another son, Eli, a Manhattan restaurateur; eight grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her brother John, of Plainfield, N.J., she is survived by her  son, Philip A. Amara of Weeki Wachee, Fla., her brother Harold J. Limpert 3d of  Vineland, N.J., and a granddaughter.
      
In addition to her son, Sydney, she is survived by two grandchildren and one  great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. Loring is survived by her husband of more than 50 years, Murrel Loring;  a daughter, Sherry Loring-Warren of Los Angeles; a son, David, of Reno; a sister, Lois Mudrick of Los Angeles, and three grandsons.
      
Her family, including her son, Lenny Kravitz, the rock guitarist and singer,  declined to release further details, said the publicity agent, Cynthia Snyder.
They were neighbors of George and Louise Jefferson (Sherman Hemsley and Isabel Sanford), and the Willises' daughter eventually married the Jeffersons' son, Lionel.
A marriage to Sy Kravitz, a former NBC executive, ended in divorce, said a spokesman for Virgin Records, their son's recording company.
In addition to her son, she is survived by her father, Albert Roker, and a granddaughter, Zoe.
      
In addition to her son, who lives in Montclair, N.J., Mrs. Bradley is survived by a sister, Hardeman Bond of Crystal  City, and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Herbert, a son, John S., of Las Vegas, and a  daughter, Anne Rothenberg of Taunton, Mass.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jane, of New York City; a son, John, an author and a drama critic for The New Yorker, of London, and two grandchildren.
      
She was seen in the films "Edward My Son," "Fail Safe" and "The Verdict.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her son, Judge Leonard Sachar of Scotch Plains, N.J.
In addition to her son, who is on the Superior Court bench in Union County, she is survived by a daughter, Naomi Margolies of Plainfield; a brother, Dr. Morton Bertin of Orlando, Fla., six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was a heart attack, said a son, Peter L. Hughes 3d of Annandale, N.J.
        First elected to the New Jersey Assembly in 1957, she represented Union Township for four terms before running for the Senate in 1965.
Besides her son Peter 3d, she is survived by two other sons, W. Barry of Greenwood, S.C., and David J. of Short Hills, N.J.
      
"
        She sold her Manhattan apartment three years ago and retired to Gilgo Beach, L.I., with her son, Dr. R. John Maxwell, and daughter-in-law and spent winters in Rincon with them and her grandson.
Surrounded by family members at her rambling, white-shingled seaside home on Cape Cod, she died of complications from pneumonia at 5:30 P.M., her son, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, said.
They were the twilight years of a life she once described as a series of agonies and ecstasies, a life born into fortune and politics, wed to ambition, graced by the exhilaration of a son in the White House and others on Capitol Hill, but touched by violent death, illness, scandal and other adversities.
She was married at 24 to Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., the son of a saloon keeper, and a dynamo who amassed holdings in banking, real estate, liquor, films and Wall Street that grew to an estimated $500 million.
Her eldest son, Joseph Jr., a Navy pilot, was killed when his plane exploded over the English Channel on a mission in World War II.
A grandson, David, the son of Robert, was found dead in a Florida hotel room in 1985, the victim, officials said, of an apparent overdose of cocaine and Demerol.
Four years ago, at celebrations marking her 100th birthday, Senator Kennedy, her last surviving son, told 400 family members and friends, "In the chaos of our household, she was the quiet at the center of the storm, the anchor of our family, the safe harbor to which we always came.
"What greater aspiration and challenge are there for a mother than the hope of raising a great son or daughter?
Three years later, Mrs. Kennedy's oldest son, Joseph Jr., was killed in the war.
" An Inauguration Of a Son
        The high point of her life, perhaps, was the inauguration of her son John as the 35th President of the United States on Jan. 20, 1961.
" An Inauguration Of a Son
        The high point of her life, perhaps, was the inauguration of her son John as the 35th President of the United States on Jan. 20, 1961.
Her son Robert was appointed Attorney General, and Edward was elected to fill John's unexpired Senate term.
Her grandchildren include the son and daughter of President Kennedy, John F. Kennedy Jr., a lawyer, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, who has been active in family interests, including the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.
Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, Robert's oldest son, became a United States representative from Massachusetts in 1986, replacing the House Speaker, Thomas P. O'Neill, who retired.
And Mark Shriver, the son of Eunice, was elected in 1994 to the Maryland House of Delegates.
Surrounded by family members at her rambling, white-shingled seaside home on Cape Cod, she died of complications from pneumonia at 5:30 P.M., her son, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, said.
They were the twilight years of a life she once described as a series of agonies and ecstasies, a life born into fortune and politics, wed to ambition, graced by the exhilaration of a son in the White House and others on Capitol Hill, but touched by violent death, illness, scandal and other adversities.
She was married at 24 to Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., the son of a saloon keeper, and a dynamo who amassed holdings in banking, real estate, liquor, films and Wall Street that grew to an estimated $500 million.
Her eldest son, Joseph Jr., a Navy pilot, was killed when his plane exploded over the English Channel on a mission in World War II.
A grandson, David, the son of Robert, was found dead in a Florida hotel room in 1985, the victim, officials said, of an apparent overdose of cocaine and Demerol.
Four years ago, at celebrations marking her 100th birthday, Senator Kennedy, her last surviving son, told 400 family members and friends, "In the chaos of our household, she was the quiet at the center of the storm, the anchor of our family, the safe harbor to which we always came.
"What greater aspiration and challenge are there for a mother than the hope of raising a great son or daughter?
Three years later, Mrs. Kennedy's oldest son, Joseph Jr., was killed in the war.
"
        An Inauguration Of a Son
        The high point of her life, perhaps, was the inauguration of her son John as the 35th President of the United States on Jan. 20, 1961.
"
        An Inauguration Of a Son
        The high point of her life, perhaps, was the inauguration of her son John as the 35th President of the United States on Jan. 20, 1961.
Her son Robert was appointed Attorney General, and Edward was elected to fill John's unexpired Senate term.
Her grandchildren include the son and daughter of President Kennedy, John F.  Kennedy Jr., a lawyer, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, who has been active in family interests, including the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.
Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, Robert's oldest son, became a United States representative from Massachusetts in 1986, replacing the House Speaker, Thomas P. O'Neill, who retired.
And Mark Shriver, the son of Eunice, was elected in 1994 to the Maryland House of Delegates.
Her last living son, Edward M. Kennedy, eulogized the mother of a President, two Senators and an Ambassador and the grandmother of two United States Representatives and the Lieutenant Governor and a state representative in Maryland, saying, "She was ambitious not only for our success, but for our souls.
"
        Mrs. Kennedy, whose sons John and Robert were assassinated, whose son Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. died in a wartime plane explosion, and whose daughter Kathleen was killed in a plane crash, was quoted by her grandson Edward M. Kennedy Jr. as saying in her autobiography, "Times to Remember" (Doubleday, 1974):
        "The most important element in human life is faith.
She died of natural causes, her son, John Barry Ryan 3d, said.
Besides her son, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Virginia, the Countess of Airlie, who lives in London; eight grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She died of complications of pulmonary and heart disease, said her son Robert K. Manoff of Pound Ridge, N.Y.
She is survived by her husband of 52 years, Richard K. Manoff; another son, Dr. Gregory P. Manoff of Santa Fe, N.M.; a sister, Martha Deutscher of New York, and six grandchildren.
      
The cause was leukemia, said a son, Donald, of Los Angeles.
A fourth son, Jonathan, died in 1991.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Roxana, of Los Angeles, and a son, Matthew, of London, from her marriage to Mr. Tynan; her mother, Jean Halton of Ottawa, and a brother, David, of Washington.
      
"
        She is survived by a son, Richard, of Montclair, N.J.; four grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Seattle, she is survived by her twin brother, Lee, of Greenville, Tex., and a son, David, also of Seattle
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Robert, of Bern, Switzerland; a daughter, Carolyn Hoehn of Heidelberg, Germany; a sister, Helen Sutton Gulick of Sacramento, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      
The cause was renal failure stemming from kidney cancer, said her son, Lawrence A. Goldberg.
Besides her son, a resident of Manhattan, Mrs. Goldberg is survived by her husband, Stanley; a daughter, Helene of New Haven; two brothers, Howard Lublin of Manhattan and Seldon Lublin of Newburgh, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
      
The cause was renal failure stemming from kidney cancer, said her son, Lawrence A. Goldberg.
Besides her son, a resident of Manhattan, Mrs. Goldberg is survived by her husband, Stanley; a daughter, Helene of New Haven; two brothers, Howard Lublin of Manhattan and Seldon Lublin of Newburgh, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
      
Dr. Bard is survived by her second husband, Irving Staroben of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Doron D. Bard of Gaithersburg; a sister, Nurie Relis of Manhattan, and a grandson.
Her first husband, Seldon Bard, and a son, Etan R., died in a 1974 terrorist bombing of a Rome-bound T.W.A.
The cause was respiratory failure, said her son, Roy R. Krebs Jr. of Alexandria.
In addition to her son, Roy Jr., she is survived by two sisters, Elizabeth Quinlan of San Clemente, Calif., and Dr. Ruth Briles of Sycamore, Ill.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
The cause was heart failure, said her son, Robert, of Manhattan.
Mrs. Fishko retired in 1988 and was succeeded by her son.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Sara Gill, and four grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Thomas I. Unterberg of Manhattan, five grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Ronald Jr., of Atlanta; a brother, Thomas, and a daughter, Susan Akkad, both of New York City.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alan; a daughter, Bobbe Dodge of Ossining, N.Y.; a son, Steven of Los Angeles, and two sisters, Belle Lipsett of Kensington, Calif., and Pearl Jacobson of Davis, Calif.
      

        Constance Morrow Morgan, a longtime Smith College trustee, died on Saturday in Portland, Ore., at the home of her son, Rhidian.
In addition to her sister and son, Mrs. Morgan is survived by three daughters, Saran Hutchins of Chicago, Elisabeth Pendleton of Washington and Margaret Eiluned Morgan of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by a son, Theodore B. Merrill of Piermont, N.Y.; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, Marvin, she is survived by 14 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
" She later wrote "Son of Any Wednesday," a reflection on the production of the play.
The cause of death was cancer, said her son George.
Besides her sons George, of Selvole, Italy, and Antonio, of St. Remy de Provence, France, Mrs. Mercati is survived by her son Louis d'Almeida of Manhattan, five grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. M. Lawrence Furst; a son, Merrick, of Pittsburgh; a daughter, Laura F. Jacobs of Merion, Pa.; her mother, Anne Platzer of Philadelphia, and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband of 48 years, she is survived by her son, Thomas, of Huntington, L.I.
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
But at the age of 79, as her son put it yesterday, "she suddenly came out from underneath," and started writing books, concentrating, appropriately enough for a novice writer, on what she knew best: her family.
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
But at age 79, as her son put it on Saturday, "she suddenly came out from underneath" and started writing books, concentrating, appropriately enough for a novice writer, on what she knew best: her family.
Barry Bingham Sr. had been publisher of the newspaper after his father, Robert Bingham, and, in turn, he had been succeeded by his son Barry Bingham Jr.
        After Barry Bingham Jr. and his sisters, Eleanor and Sallie Bingham, were locked in a feud over control of the company, Barry Bingham Sr. decided to sell.
"
        When her son became publisher of the paper, he exchanged houses with his parents, as was the family tradition.
In addition to her son and daughters, Mrs. Bingham is survived by six grandsons, four granddaughters and a great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Carolyn Brown of Millbrook, N.Y., a former lead dancer with the Merce Cunningham Dance Company; a son, J. Parker Rice Jr. of Ashburnham, Mass.
She is survived by a son, Galen, of Berkeley, two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Tom, of Los Angeles; two sisters, Sarah Bozzola of Orange, Conn., and Elizabeth Horn of Buffalo, and a brother, Thomas Speller of Buffalo.
      
Dr. Fitchen is survived by her husband, Douglas B. Fitchen, a Cornell professor; a son, John H., of La Jolla, Calif.; and two daughters, Katherine F. Nisbet of Bozeman, Mont., and Sylvia Fitchen of Tucson, Ariz.
      
Besides Mr. Moore of Orange, N.J., she is survived by a son, Michael Sean Delaney of the Bronx, and three brothers, Frank, of Stuart, Fla., and Anthony and Eugene, both of Sayreville, N.J.
      
Besides Mr. Moore of Orange, N.J., she is survived by a son, Michael Sean Delaney of the Bronx, and three brothers, Frank, of Stuart, Fla., and Anthony and Eugene, both of Sayreville, N.J.
      
