They were installed last February in a chapel designed by her son, Francois.
In addition to her son Francois, she is survived by another son, Georges; three daughters, Marie-Christophe de Menil, Adelaide de Menil Carpenter and Philippa de Menil Friedrich; 11 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
In addition to her son Francois, she is survived by another son, Georges; three daughters, Marie-Christophe de Menil, Adelaide de Menil Carpenter and Philippa de Menil Friedrich; 11 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Dr. Leslie Lopato of San Francisco; a son, David, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, L. Daniel Dannenbaum; a son, Daniel George Dannenbaum, and two stepdaughters, Marianne Kierstead of Merrimack, N.H., and Alison Lang of Lillooet, British Columbia.
      
Because she was a woman, there were no faculty openings at Yale, her son Charles recalled yesterday, and she jumped at the offer to become dean of Douglass College, the women's college of Rutgers University.
Ms. Ruvinska is survived by a son, Daniel Dichter of Rome.
      
Ms. Ruvinska is survived by a son, Daniel Dichter of Rome.
      
She is survived by a son, Jeffrey Paley of Manhattan; a daughter, Hilary Paley Califano of Roxbury, Conn., and Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Joy H. Briggs of Manhattan, seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by a son, Richard Balkin of upstate New York, and three granddaughters.
After World War II, Ms. Gellhorn adopted a son in Italy and raised him, largely on her own, in Mexico and other countries, where she supported herself with a string of articles for women's magazines.
She is survived by her son, George Alexander Gellhorn of London, and a brother, Alfred Gellhorn of New York.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Barbara C. Marziali of Charlottesville, Va.; a son, F. Bosley Crowther 4th of Los Angeles; a brother, Edward George Benson Jr. of Storrs, Conn. and a sister, M. Ophelia Benson of Seattle.
      
She married Robert Jordan of Weston, Conn., and had a son, Nicholas, but the marriage failed.
''She started to think she wanted to care for kids and went into pre-med,'' said Samuel Howell, her son by a second marriage.
The Countess is survived by a son, Paul, and a daughter, Gladys Szapary, both of Manhattan, and a sister, Countess Ferdinandine Eltz of Salzburg, Austria.
Dr. Wakin is survived by a son, Daniel, an Associated Press correspondent in Rome; a sister, Mary Lou Wakin of Manhattan; a brother, Joseph Wakin of Stamford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
Her son, Andrew Barnes, is the editor and chief executive of The St. Petersburg Times.
In addition to her son, she is survived by two daughters, Lila Jacobs of Minneapolis and Nancy Barnes of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Professor Stamler is survived by a son, Paul J., of St. Louis, and a sister, Gertrude Asher of the Bronx.
      
Mr. Goodman, the son of Edwin Goodman, the founder of the store, died in 1993 at the age of 86.
She is survived by 3 daughters, Vivien Malloy of Waccabuc, N.Y.; Mary Ann Quinson of Manhattan, and Pamela Lichty of Honolulu; a son, Edwin, of Manhattan; 13 grandchildren, and 9 great-grandchildren.
      
He was in turn succeeded by a son from a previous marriage to the late Sonia Syers, Andrew John Galbraith Cole, now the 7th Earl of Enniskillen.
She is survived by four daughters, Mary Jo Nocero of Orlando, Fla., Eileen Hult of Milwaukee, Betty J. Santangelo of Manhasset and Patricia A. Santangelo of Manhattan; a son, Charles A. Santangelo, of Washington; a sister, Rose Santangelo of Harrison, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, James Henry Baker 3d of Columbia, and two granddaughters.
      
Her survivors include her husband, Philip, executive director of the Children's Aid Society; a son, Peter, of Chicago; a daughter, Julie Adler of Boston, and a grandson.
      
Betsey Cushing met James Roosevelt, the eldest son of Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Eleanor Roosevelt, when she was 22.
Five hundred leaders of the social and political worlds of Boston and New York watched the bride, in a floor-length gown of silver lame, exchange vows with the son of the Governor of New York and his wife.
She is survived by a son, John M., and a sister, Edith Smolen, both of Manhattan.
      
In the next year, the couple married and adopted Charles Graves, the son of a former boyfriend.
In 1992, at 66, she gave a searing performance in Janacek's ''Jenufa'' as Kostelnicka, a Moravian villager so ashamed of her stepdaughter's out-of-wedlock son that she drowns the infant in a stream.
Until a few years ago when she visited her son, then living in Florida, Mrs. Shuman had not seen the Atlantic since 1912.
Mrs. Shuman, whose brother died in 1968, is survived by a son, Earl, of St. Charles, Ill., two sisters, Irene Van Thournout of St. Charles and Esther Rudder of Connecticut, and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Watkin, who created some confusion by marrying and later divorcing a man with the same surname as her own, is survived by a son, Daniel, an Associated Press correspondent in Rome; a sister, Mary Lou Wakin of Manhattan; a brother, Joseph Wakin of Stamford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
When she won her case, she cried with happiness, and went on to adopt her son, David, in 1967, and her daughter, Susan, in 1969.
After an early marriage and divorce, she married Edward J. Rakowicz, a recording engineer, had a son, Edward W., now 7, and became as devoted a mother as she had been a dedicated singer.
Mrs. Cormier, who claimed 37 grandchildren and 100 great-grandchildren a dozen years, had since lost count, said her son, Herbert, of Crowley.
During that time Ms. Maddox married and had a son.
Folk art is rarely fashionable, but after a son took several of her paintings to New York, the art dealers were so impressed that a bidding war broke out among them until Mrs. Spelce agreed to a show at the Kennedy Galleries in 1972.
Her son Drew said the cause was complications from leukemia.
In addition to her son Drew, of Brooklyn, she is survived by her husband, Donald; two other sons, Douglas, of Brooklyn and Steven, of Glen Ridge, N.J.; her mother, Eunice Burton of Austin, Minn.; a sister, Victoria Swedish of Madison, Wis.; a brother, Robert, of Indianapolis and four grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Vincent Connelly, who is a partner at the Chicago law firm of Mayer, Brown & Platt; two daughters, Courtney and Carleigh; a son, Robert; a sister, Mary Fitzgerald, and a brother, Thomas Fitzgerald, both of Arlington Heights, Ill.
      
She is survived by a son, Anthony, of Pittsford, N.Y.; a granddaugther, and a sister.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, Ms. Skelly is survived by her husband, Eugene Altman of Scottsdale, and a son, Jonathan Altman of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by a son, Cade Roster, of Honolulu.
      
She is survived by her husband, George Richey; five daughters, Jackie Daly, Gwen Ignaczak and Tina Jones, all of Nashville, Georgette Smith of Alabama and Deirdre Richardson of Los Angeles; a son, Kelly Richardson of San Francisco,  and seven grandchildren.
''
        In addition to her husband, George Richey, she is survived by five daughters, Jackie Daly, Gwen Ignaczak and Tina Jones, all of Nashville, Georgette Smith of Alabama and Deirdre Richardson of Los Angeles; a son, Kelly Richardson of San Francisco and seven grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in New York City, she is survived by a son, Michael Spence of New York, and a grandson.
      
Their son, Tim, also an actor, died in 1986 when he was 42.
Beginning in 1974, she starred in ''That's My Mama,'' an ABC situation comedy set in a Washington barbershop where a widowed mother knows best what her hapless son (played by Clifton Davis) should do.
The cause was lung cancer, her son Clifford A. Ross said.
Besides her son Clifford, she is survived by another son, Alfred F. Ross, of New York City; a daughter, Beverly Ross; two sisters, Marjorie Iseman and Helen Frankenthaler, the artist, both of New York; a stepdaughter, Ann Bookman of Brookline, Mass.
Besides her son Clifford, she is survived by another son, Alfred F. Ross, of New York City; a daughter, Beverly Ross; two sisters, Marjorie Iseman and Helen Frankenthaler, the artist, both of New York; a stepdaughter, Ann Bookman of Brookline, Mass.
She is survived by a son, Peter, of Portola Valley, Calif., and two grandsons.
Michael, her oldest son, was killed in a plane crash in 1958.
Ms. Pfeffer is survived by her husband, Khalid Chahi of Manhattan, a son, Sami, and her mother, Shirley Pfeffer of Brooklyn.
      
In addition to Mr. Price, she is survived by her husband, Stefan Brecht (the son of Bertolt Brecht); a daughter, Sarah, and a son, Sebastian, all of New York City.
      
In addition to Mr. Price, she is survived by her husband, Stefan Brecht (the son of Bertolt Brecht); a daughter, Sarah, and a son, Sebastian, all of New York City.
      
Mrs. Kraus was instrumental in the creation of one of those group homes, the Melvin M. Kraus Residence in the East Village, named after her stricken son.
Mrs. Kraus is survived by their other son, Lawrence, of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and two grandsons.
      
She was divorced in 1980, and is survived by a son, Alexander M. Cheetham.
      
Survivors include a son, Roxburgh Rennie of Providence, R.I.; a daughter, Missie Rennie Taylor of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
That fiction sufficed until her future mother-in-law secretly asked her son the Yiddish foreshadowing of ''Does she  .
Their son, Lucas, and The Paris Review both came out in the spring of 1953, with both parents represented by French translations.
She is survived by a son, Robert Aiken of Washington; a sister, Carmen Zincke of Madrid; a brother, Henry Arizmendi of Tenafly, N.J., and three granddaughters.
      
After seeing her in ''Henry VIII,'' Carl Laemmle Jr., son of the founder of Universal Studios, brought Miss Barnes to Hollywood in 1934 to star opposite Frank Morgan in ''There's Always Tomorrow.
In addition to her husband, Rabbi Timoner is survived by her mother, Mary Surasky of Tampa, Fla.; a daughter, Aviva, of Paris; a son, Samson, of Germantown, Md.
She is survived by her husband of 73 years, Carl S. Shoup; their daughter, Dale S. Mayer, of Center Sandwich, N.H.; a son, Paul S., of Charlottesville, Va., eight grandchildren  and nine great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Caccialanza danced with his company until the birth of their son in 1953.
Miss Caccialanza is survived by her son, Chris Christensen, a conductor, also of San Bruno.
      
Ms. Hoban is survived by three daughters, Phoebe, and Julia, both  of Manhattan, and Esme, of Wilton; a son, Brom, of Austin, Tex.
Mrs. Smith is survived by her husband, Robert Kimmel Smith, an author; a daughter, Heidi M. Smith of San Francisco; a son, Roger K. Smith of New York City, and a sister, Harriet M. Levine of Orangeburg, N.Y.
      
Her son, Siddharth, died last year.
      
Dr. Karlin is survived by her daughter, Jessica Feierman of Philadelphia; a son, Joshua Feierman of New York City; and her mother, Rosa Karlin of Madison.

        Rose Blumkin, who founded the Nebraska Furniture Mart in 1937, helped her son and grandchildren build it into the nation's largest home furnishings store and continued selling carpet there well past her 100th birthday, died on Friday in Omaha.
Mrs. Blumkin's own nominee for the nation's greatest businessman was her son, Louis, who became her major ally in running the Furniture Mart after returning from military service in World War II.
She is survived by her son, Louis; three daughters, Frances Batt, Cynthia Schneider and Sylvia Cohn; two sisters, Anne Rosenblatt and Ruth Lasher, all of Omaha; a brother, Mayer Gorelick of Los Angeles; 12 grandchildren, and 21 great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Irwin, whose husband, Keith, died in 1994, is survived by two other daughters, Jane Croll of Des Moines, and Ann Bauer of Dubuque; a son, Rees, of Ames, and four grandchildren.
      
In recent years, Mrs. Brown appeared rarely in public but on Tuesday stood at the side of her son, Hubert Humphrey 3d, Minnesota's Attorney General, when he won the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party nomination for governor.
''Hubert would have been proud,'' she said after her son's victory.
In addition to her husband and her son Hubert 3d, Mrs. Brown is survived by a daughter, Nancy Solomonson, and two other sons, Bob and Douglas, all of suburban Minneapolis; 12 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      
In recent years, Mrs. Brown appeared rarely in public but on Tuesday stood at the side of her son, Hubert H. Humphrey 3d, Minnesota's Attorney General, when he won the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party nomination for governor.
''Hubert would have been proud,'' she said after her son's victory.
''
        In addition to her husband and her son Hubert 3d, Mrs. Brown is survived by a daughter, Nancy Solomonson, and two other sons, Bob and Douglas, all of suburban Minneapolis; 12 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      
At the time of the German invasion, Mrs. Rosenberg, a native of Gorlice who had studied law at the University of Cracow, was the 27-year-old wife of a doctor who had escaped the Nazis by accepting a medical assignment with the retreating Soviet Army, leaving her behind with an infant son, Zygmund, and her adored younger brother, Romek.
Mrs. Rosenberg's son, siblings, parents and other relatives died in the Holocaust, but her husband survived.
In addition to her husband, her mother and her brother, she is survived by a son, Diego, two daughters, Giulia and Maria, two other brothers, Leonardo and Massimo, a sister, Fulvia Visconti Ferragamo, all of Florence; and another sister, Giovanna Gentile Ferragamo, of Milan.
A son from that marriage, Robert M. Gray, died of cancer, said Sarah Jennings, a Canadian arts journalist and a family friend.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Rice is survived by her son, Andrew; her father, John H. Rice of St. Louis, and two brothers, John Rice 2d of Charlotte, N.C. and James Rice of Oakhurst, Calif.
      
Ms. Topf is survived by her husband, Jon Gibson, a composer with whom she often collaborated, and a son, Jeremy, both of Manhattan; her mother, Celia Topf Straus of Lauderhill, Fla., and three sisters, Bobbi Straus of Port Washington, N.Y., Peggy Schwartz of Amherst, Mass., and Margie J. Topf of Boston.
      
She is survived by her son, Dimitri DeHarak of Montpelier, Vt., and her companion, James Keeler, who produced her recordings.
      
Mrs. Barger is survived by a son, Ernest Jr., of La Jolla.

        Joan Hickson, a stage, screen and television actress who became an international celebrity when she played Miss Marple, Agatha Christie's sharp-witted elderly detective, in a BBC television series from 1984 to 1992, died over the weekend at a hospital in Colchester, Essex, said her son, Nicholas Butler.
She is survived by a son and a daughter.
      
She is survived by a son, Carl H. Kappes 3d of Greenwich; two daughters, Ellen B. Kappes of Northeast Harbor, Me., and Karen C. Kappes of Holden, Mass., and four grandsons.
      
Throughout her life Ms. Katzen was a visiting professor at schools around the country, including Wichita State University, Lehman College in New York and Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Denize, and a son, Hal, all of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
As purists never tire of pointing out, the dance by that name that swept America and Europe in the 1930's and became an Arthur Murray staple was such a tame, watered-down version of the Afro-Cuban original that it was closer to a dance the Cubans call the son.
After her first husband, the playboy son of a wealthy rancher, discovered he couldn't keep her down on the finca after she'd seen Paree, Miss Parla obtained a divorce and later married Guillermo Amuchastegui, a celebrated jai alai player who took her all over the world, and she hobnobbed with the likes of Orson Welles and Esther Williams (when she wasn't in Cuba hobnobbing with Ernest Hemingway).
Mrs. Gilkeson, whose husband and son predeceased her, is survived by five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
When her fourth son, David, turned out to be autistic, for example, and she discovered there were no camps in Rockland County for children with such developmental disabilities, Mrs. Lukens, who had previously helped start a nursery school for her three older sons, did the obvious thing: She started a camp for David.
Not surprisingly, perhaps, four of Mrs. Lukens's children grew up to go into some form of social work: her oldest son, Mark, is a minister in East Rockaway, N.Y.; Jonathan of Carmel, N.Y., and her daughter, Margaret Byrne, of Orangeburg, N.Y., are clinical social workers and Daniel, of Congers, N.Y., is his mother's successor as executive director of Camp Venture.
So she reached out to a reporter for The New York Times to say that she planned to demolish the Osborne and replace it with a new tower, her son, Dr. Julius Korein, recalled.
''
        Miss Nijinsky's stage career began fading after she married the conductor Igor Markevitch in 1936; the marriage ended in divorce and Markevitch, who died in 1983, raised their son, Vaslav Nijinsky Markevitch.
She is survived by her son; a sister, Tamara Nijinsky of Phoenix, and four grandchildren.
      
''
        Miss Nijinsky's stage career began fading after she married the conductor Igor Markevitch in 1936; the marriage ended in divorce and Markevitch, who died in 1983, raised their son, Vaslav Nijinsky Markevitch.
She is survived by her son; a sister, Tamara Nijinsky of Phoenix, and four grandchildren.
      
In 1973, she moved to Connecticut to live with her son, Jeremy.
In addition to her son, she is survived by three grandchildren, two stepgrandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      

        Paula Kissinger, a refugee from Nazi Germany who held the Bible at the White House in 1973 when her first-born son, Henry, was sworn in as Secretary of State, the highest Cabinet post in her adopted land, died at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center yesterday in Manhattan.
They moved to Furth, where he was a teacher, and within the year their first son, Heinz Alfred, was born.
The next year a second son, Walter Bernhard, arrived.
She refused to leave the neighborhood, even after her husband died 10 years ago and her elder son asked her to move in with him and his wife downtown.
She was put on a life-support system, but when doctors wanted to remove it, her son Henry refused.
Back home, when her son came to visit, the neighborhood was all excited and she admitted to being proud: ''They say, 'My son the doctor.
Back home, when her son came to visit, the neighborhood was all excited and she admitted to being proud: ''They say, 'My son the doctor.
' What should I say, my son the Aussenminister?
She is survived by a son, Edgar S. Cahn of Washington, and a daughter, Mary Cahn Schwartz of Chevy Chase, Md., three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Christine Donovan of Manhattan and Sharon Dodd of New Orleans; a son, Dr. James F. Donovan Jr. of Oklahoma City, and three grandchildren.
      
''
        But she spoke firmly and often about about her desire to fight black stereotypes on television and even left the cast of ''Good Times'' for a while, saying at the time that she resented the image presented by the buffoonish character of her son in the show.
Peter G. Lehman, son of Herbert H. Lehman, a wealthy financier who became Governor of New York and United States Senator.
She recorded with the son group Sierra Maestra and made the original version of ''Bemba Colorao,'' a tune that became a standard for Celia Cruz.
She created more than 26 toys or games, including the first board game based on Roman numerals, said Fredrick Malsed, her son.
By then, her son said, Mrs. Malsed was collecting royalties of $60,000 to $70,000 annually.
In addition to her son, also of Seattle, she is survived by her sisters, Catherine Chastek of Spokane and Fredrica Adams of Seattle, and two grandchildren.
      
She had been undergoing treatment for cancer, said her son, Robert J. Johnson.
Ms. Youshkevitch is survived by her son, the dance critic for The Newark Star-Ledger.
      
The infection also caused the death of Ms. Walsh's unborn son on Oct. 31.
Ms. Walsh is survived by her husband, Mark; a son, Carter; her parents, Mollie Bucy of Baltimore and David Long of Crownsville, Md.
She is survived by a daughter, Gail Christensen of Los Angeles, and a son, Jack Jones of Indian Wells, Calif.
      
In 1929 the real world intruded savagely on the Murphys' idyll when their youngest son, Patrick, was found to have tuberculosis.
''How different a dawn than the one we saw in a hospital 18 years ago,'' Gerald Murphy wrote to Sara after the Donnellys' second son was born.
Her sentiments were expressed in a 1922 poetry collection, ''The Indians in the Woods,'' in a series of stories later included in a 1946 collection, ''Good-Bye, Son and Other Stories,'' and in a 1932 narrative, as she called it, ''The Invasion,'' the multi-generational account of a Scotch-Irish-Indian family.
For Miss Lewis, who is survived by a daughter, Joanna Thomson of Madison, Wis.; a son, Daniel Winters  of Davis, Calif., and three grandchildren, her family was always more important than her work, and her life is well reflected in her final collection, ''The Dear Past,'' (1994) with poems covering most of the century.
Survivors include two daughters, Caroline Lalire of Hamilton, Va., and Zita Emerson of Albuquerque; a son, Peter Abel of St. Davids, Pa., 10 grandchildren and 7 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Murrow is survived by a son, Casey, of Putney, Vt.; and two grandsons.
      
