The cause was respiratory complications, said her son, William.
In addition to her son, of Sea Girt, she is survived by a daughter, Margaretta J. Friday of Weston, Conn., four grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. Greeff is survived by her daughter, Anne M. Garrigue of Manhattan; her son, Paul Garrigue of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Evangeline Greeff Michell of Westport, Conn., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mrs. Lazarus, of New York and Washington, she is survived by another daughter, Carole Avnet Rocherolle of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Jonathan Avnet, a film director and producer of Topanga Canyon, outside Los Angeles, and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Shea is survived by a son, William A. Jr. of Manhattan; two daughters, Kathy Shea Anfuso of Portland, Ore., and Patricia Shea Ryan of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Ted Lloyd of Phoenix; a brother, Carleton Ralston of Los Angeles; two daughters, Judy Richmond of Mill Valley, Calif., and Mary Baxter of Phoenix; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Mrs. Rastelli of Rome, Marjorie Bowden of London and Virginia Gordan of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a son, John D. Gordan 3d of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Field is survived by a son, Robert L. Phipps of Ridgeland, S.C.; a daughter, Fiona F. Kay, a resident of Alicante province in eastern Spain, five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was heart failure, said her son, J. Nicholas Newman of Wayland, Mass.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Ellen N. Rothchild of Cleveland, and three grandchildren.
      
She was the widow of Roger S. Firestone, an industrialist who was the fifth son of Harvey S. Firestone, founder of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company.
Mrs. Firestone is survived by a son, John D., of Washington; three daughters, Gay F. Wray and Susan F. Semegen of Paradise Valley, Ariz., and Cinda F. Fox of New York; a brother, Peter Joers of Hot Springs, Ark., and 10 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Robert, of Burke, Va., and a daughter, Madeleine W. de Heller of Bougy-Villars, Switzerland.
      
She married Hugh Grant Straus, son of Nathan Straus, merchant and philanthropist, in 1913.
The cause was cardiopulmonary complications, said her son Thomas B. Weisbuch.
She is survived by her daughter and a son, Paul, both of Manhattan.
      
The recording, recently rereleased on CD by Supraphon, presents folk songs of her native land; the piano accompaniments are by Jan Masaryk, the son of the former president of Czechoslovakia.
That same year, Miss Novotna appeared in Fred Zinnemann's film "The Search," as a mother seeking her lost son at the end of World War II.
In addition to her daughter, of New York City, she is survived by a son, George Daubek of Pound Ridge, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two brothers, Albert Thayer of Baldwin, L.I., and John Thayer of Norfolk, Va.; a son, Arthur Kudner of Grasonville, Md.
Mrs. Simon is survived by three daughters, Carly Simon, the singer and composer, Lucy Levine and Joanna Walker, all of Manhattan, and a son, Peter Simon of Chilmark, Mass.
      
In 1956 she married Peter Grenfell, the son of a British partner of J. P. Morgan.
The cause was heart disease, said Dr. Jon Yardney, her son.
She is survived by a daughter, Maya Ryan of Manhattan; her son, of Wayne, Pa., and five granddaughters.
      
Her 1934 marriage to Bryan Wallace, son of the writer Edgar Wallace, was dissolved in 1939.
"
        She is survived by a daughter, Melissa Ann Hime; a son, John David Montgomery, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Wasson is survived by two daughters, Elizabeth W. Bergstrom of South Harpswell, Me., and Anne Harney Gallagher of Boston; a son, Edward B., of Denver; a sister, Helen Hauser Jordan of Short Hills., N.J.; 13 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
      
; a son, William Jr., of Baltimore; a brother, Theodore Roosevelt 3d of Mount Desert, Me., and three granddaughters.
      
Her son, Paul, attributed her death to natural causes.
Besides her son Paul, a resident of Baton Rouge, she is survived by a daughter, Donna Jones, also of Baton Rouge; two other sons, Thomas, of Springfield, Va., and Perry, of Baton Rouge, and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Hunter is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Cheryl,, of Los Angeles; a son, Robin, of Santa Monica; a sister, Dorothy Horner, of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sisters Emma, Geneva and Georgie; a daughter, Jacqueline; a son, William; four grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren, all of St. Louis.
      
The cause was a stroke, said her son Benjamin R. Barber.
In addition to her son Benjamin, of Piscataway, N.J., she is survived by another son, Willson Barber of Becket, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Benjamin, of Piscataway, N.J., she is survived by another son, Willson Barber of Becket, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      
B. and Eloise Morris, and two brothers, Byron and Douglas, all of Durham, and a son, James.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Charles Fleischmann 3d of Cincinnati; another daughter, Dorette Fleischmann of The Plains, Va.; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Eve Pomerance of London; a son, Moby Pomerance of Manhattan; a brother, Nicholas, of London, and a sister, Anne Zribi of Paris.
      
She is survived by a son, Richard Van Lennep of Washington; a nephew, Randolph M. Pollard of Las Vegas, Nev., and a niece, Beverly Page of Bow, N.H.
      
The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said her son, Warren J. Plath of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.
        Ms. Plath was born in Boston and grew up in Winthrop, Mass.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a brother, Frank Schober of West Chester, Pa., three granddaughters and a grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband, Julian Greenspan; two daughters, Gail W. Strickler and Debbye Strickler, both of Manhattan, and a son, Dr. Howard Strickler of Washington.
      
Besides her husband she is survived by a son, Peter, and a daughter, Karen, both of San Jose, and her father, William R. Yeack of Gainesville, Fla.
      
She is survived by a son and a daughter from her first marriage.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Eleanor Lebenthal Bissinger of Manhattan; a son, Jim Lebenthal, the firm's chairman and spokesman, also of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Kenneth, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Alice Robinson of Manhattan; her parents, Norris and Natalie Konheim of Longboat Key, Fla., and a sister, Patty Goldenberg of Waban, Mass.
      
Miss Damita -- the name means little lady in Spanish -- had a son with Mr. Flynn, Sean, who was a photojournalist and who disappeared in Cambodia in 1970.
The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said her son Roger.
In addition to her son Roger, of Cos Cob, Conn., she is survived by another son, the Rev.
In addition to her son Roger, of Cos Cob, Conn., she is survived by another son, the Rev.
She is survived by her daughter and a son, David, both of Manhattan.
      
The cause was apparently a heart attack, said her son, Christian.
Their son was born the next year.
In addition to her son, a professor of music and classics at Dartmouth College, she is survived by a stepson, Nikolaus Wolff of Norwich, Vt.; a stepdaughter, Maria Stadelmayer of Hamburg, Germany; a brother, George Mosel of Santiago, Chile; a sister, Elizabeth Steinbeis of Brannenburg, Germany, and 10 grandchildren.
      
Mr. Dassin, the son of a New York barber, fled to Europe after being blacklisted in Hollywood in the 1950's.
Dr. Clarenbach is survived by two daughters, Sara Clarenbach of Madison, and Janet Mallon of Oswego, N.Y.; a son, David, of Madison, and one grandson.
      
Mrs. Lord is survived by her husband, Edwin Jr., of Cambridge; a son, Edwin 3d, of Frankfurt, Germany; a daughter, Mary, of Washington, and a brother, Ted Allen of Scottsdale, Ariz.
      
Her son David was the first child to be born in New York after conception by laboratory methods.
' "
        Her son Alan recalled yesterday that the ad campaign was hatched by his father, who convinced his wife, who was at first reluctant, to do it.
She is survived by a son, Peter St. Mu Raiziss of Sacramento, Calif.
      
She is survived by her husband, who is the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, a daughter, Kimberly Donaldson-Plym, and a son, Matthew, all of New York.
      
She died of natural causes, said her son, Jonathan, of Princeton, N.J.
In addition to her son, an art historian at the Institute of Fine Arts in Manhattan, Mrs. Brown is survived by another son, Robert, of Manhattan, a partner in the Reinhold Brown Gallery.
      
In addition to her son, an art historian at the Institute of Fine Arts in Manhattan, Mrs. Brown is survived by another son, Robert, of Manhattan, a partner in the Reinhold Brown Gallery.
      
French authorities deported the couple, who then were interned in Casablanca, spent a harsh 22 months in the Dominican Republic and finally arrived in New York with their young son in 1944.
Dr. Grunwald is survived by her son, George, of Benecia, Calif., and four grandchildren.
In recent years Mrs. Onassis had lived quietly but not in seclusion, working at Doubleday; joining efforts to preserve historic New York buildings; spending time with her son, daughter and grandchildren; jogging in Central Park; getting away to her estates in New Jersey, at Hyannis, Mass., and on Martha's Vineyard, and going about town with Maurice Tempelsman, a financier who had become her closest companion.
"
        Mrs. Onassis is survived by her daughter, Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg; a son, John F. Kennedy Jr.; her sister, Lee Radziwill Ross, and three grandchildren, Rose Kennedy, Tatiana Celia Kennedy and John Bouvier Kennedy Schlossberg.
; a son, Mark Stein of Hamilton, Mass.
The cause was complications from a stroke, said her son, Herbert Bernstein.
She is survived by her son of Bellport; a daughter, Helen Young of Lawrenceville, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      

        Natalia Danesi Murray, a publishing executive and book editor in New York from the 1950's through the 1970's, died on Thursday at her son's home in Del Mar, Calif. She was 92.
She is survived by her son, William Murray, an author and foreign correspondent, and three grandchildren, all of Del Mar.
      

        Natalia Danesi Murray, a publishing executive and book editor in New York from the 1950's through the 1970's, died on Thursday at her son's home in Del Mar, Calif. She was 92.
She is survived by her son, William Murray, an author and foreign correspondent, and three grandchildren, all of Del Mar.
      
; a son, Howard, of Old Westbury, L.I., and two sisters, Janice Sommer of Roslyn, L.I., and Pearl Schenkler of Boca Raton, Fla.
      
She is survived by her husband, Ralph; a son, Joseph R., of Boston; two daughters, Eva M. Grizell of Boston and Nichole Devanna of Ardsley; two grandchildren, and a sister, Barbara Schwab of Mount Laurel, N.J.
      
The cause was cancer, said her son, Dr. Peter M. Rothman.
In addition to her son, of Fort Wayne, Ind., she is survived by her husband, Dr. Lester D. Rothman; a brother, Matthew, and a sister, Josephine Bono, both of Kansas City, and a grandson, Wilson J. Rothman.
      
She is survived by her daughter of Lafayette, Calif.; her son, Dan Natchez of Mamaroneck, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband and a son, William Leroy, both of Manhattan.
Miss Williams is survived by her son, Robin, of Philadelphia; a brother, Isaac, of Miami, and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was pulmonary embolism, the result of a recent accident, said her son, John.
She is survived by two grandchildren, in addition to her son.
      
Ms. Hames's survivors include a son, Adam, and a daughter, Donia.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Connie Marks of Culpeper, Va., and Jennifer Buchwald of Boston; a son, Joel, of Denver; three grandchildren, five sisters and two brothers.
      
The cause was injuries suffered in an automobile accident, said her son, Phil D. Carroll.
In addition to her son, of Austin, Tex., she is survived by three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. McDonald is survived by a son, Dr. Brian F. of Rockville Centre; a sister, Anna Gordon of Bayside, Queens, and two grandchildren.
The cause was cancer, said her son, Douglas Ochs Adler.
She is survived by her husband, A. Royall Turpin Jr. of Richmond; her son, of Takoma Park, Md.
In addition to her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Lancaster is survived by a son, Michael Tree; a sister, Alice Winn; and two granddaughters, all of London.
      
Dr. Langer is survived by a son, Seth Rosenberg of Chatham, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
; a son, Steven M. of Melrose, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Carlos Perez Chacel.
Mrs. Price is survived by her husband, Kenneth W., of Waccabuc; a daughter, Darcy Lee Price of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Timothy of Port Jervis, N.Y.; and a sister, Barbara Lee Crowder of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a son, Rodolphe, of London; a daughter, Tess d'Erlanger, of Oxford, England; three grandsons, and her sister, of Wilton, Conn..
        She was buried in Geneva.
      
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Goldstein is survived by a son, Herbert Samuelson of Metuchen, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by her husband, Robert Kaylor; a son, Ross; two stepdaughters, Robin and Sarah, and three brothers and a sister.
      
He is her son, Dr. Joel Ehrenkranz of New Vernon, N.J.
      
She is survived by her husband, George W. Bahlke; a son, Conrad D., of Hoboken, N.J.; two daughters, Catherine B. Hornstein of Brooklyn and Margaret B. Diskin of West Chester, Pa.; two brothers, Michael Worth of Swarthmore and Douglas Worth of Newton, Mass., and a granddaughter.
      
She gave piano lessons, and discovered her son's ability when at the age of 3 he went to the piano after one of her students left and played by ear the piece that had just been taught.
Mrs. Cliburn served as her son's adviser, manager and inspiration throughout his career.
She is survived by her son, of Fort Worth.
      
Mrs. Carliner is survived by her husband of 50 years, David; a son, Geoffrey, of West Newton, Mass.
In addition to Mrs. Dawe, of Milwaukee, she is survived by a son, Simpson Markson of New Jersey; a brother, the producer and director Edwin Sherin of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, David; two daughters, Eva and Emily, and a son, Joel, all of Monona; her parents, James and Ethel Herring, of Marion, Iowa; three sisters, Kathryn Fassbinder, of Elgin, Iowa, Mary Walston of Kewaunee, Wis., and Susan Valleire of Rock Island, Ill.; four brothers, J. Stephen Herring of Idaho Falls, Idaho, Edward Herring, of Rockford, Ill., Mark Herring, of Manitowoc, Wis., and John Herring of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and a grandmother, Martha McElroy of Creston, Iowa.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by their son, Max; a stepson, Lem Dobbs of Los Angeles; a stepdaughter, Dominie Kitaj of London; her father, Gene, of Tucson, Ariz.; her mother, Ethel, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a sister, Margaret, of Emeryville, Calif., and a stepgrandson, Joe Kitaj of Los Angeles.
      
Mrs. Hoffstot, whose family has spent winters in Palm Beach for three generations, was born Barbara S. Drew in Pittsburgh, graduated from the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., and attended Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla.
        She is survived by her husband of 46 years, Henry Phipps Hoffstot Jr.; a daughter, Thayer of Westlake Village, Calif.; a son, Henry Phipps 3d of Ligonier, Pa., and New York, and four grandchildren.
      
The cause was stomach cancer, said a son, Paul Edward Klapthor of Sumter, S.C.
        Mrs. Klapthor retired from the Smithsonian in 1983.
Besides her son Paul, she is survived by another son, Carlson Brown Klapthor of Washington; a daughter, Frances Andrews of Baltimore; a sister, Mary Berry Moore of Port Tobacco, Md., and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Paul, she is survived by another son, Carlson Brown Klapthor of Washington; a daughter, Frances Andrews of Baltimore; a sister, Mary Berry Moore of Port Tobacco, Md., and four grandchildren.
      
The cause was cancer, said her son Andrew Ungerleider.
In addition to her sons Andrew, of Los Angeles, and Peter, of Manhattan, she is survived by another son, Dr. Steven Ungerleider of Eugene, Ore.; three daughters, Jeane Ungerleider-Springer of Boston, Miriam Mayerson-Michael of Manhattan and Clare Benac-Mayerson of Paris; two sisters, Celeste G. Bartos of Manhattan and Miriam G. Wallach of Scarsdale, N.Y., and seven grandchildren
      
A son, Chris, was born in 1943 and a daughter, Tandy, in 1945.
Her husband, J. P. Davis, whom she married in 1920, died in 1980, and her son, James, died in 1986.
Ms. Lawrence, who used her maiden name, is survived by a daughter, Alison Collins of Kew Gardens, Queens, and a son, Charles Collins of Forest Hills, Queens.
      
The Soviet Government permitted her to leave in February 1975 with her son, Ivan.
In addition to her son, Ms. Fedicheva is survived by her mother in St. Petersburg, Russia.
      
Mrs. Nemerov's son, the poet Howard Nemerov, won a Pulitzer Prize in 1978 and served as Poet Laureate of the United States from 1988 to 1990.
She is survived by a son, H. Erich Heinemann of Great Neck, L.I., chief economist at Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company, investment bankers; a daughter, Marianne Russo of Oxford, Pa., and Wilmington, Del.
Ms. Basquette is survived by her daughter, Lita Warner Heller; a son, Edward Alvin Hayes; a half-sister, the actress and dancer Marge Champion, and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Betty Hobin of Palm Beach, Fla., and Hopewell Township, N.J.; five grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and a sister, Margaret G. Finley of Haddonfield, N.J. A son, Paul Roebling, died in July.
      
She is survived by a son, Jason M. Anderson of Boca Raton, Fla.; a daughter, Amy J. Anderson of East Falmouth; a stepdaughter, Sherri O'Grady of Boston; a sister, Pat Hodges of Ashland, Neb., and three grandchildren.
      
When there was a problem with the music during her first performance there, a burly man rose from the audience and encouraged her to keep on, teasing her about having broken up his home by teaching his son the Lindy Hop.
She is survived by a son, Onwin Borde of Miami.
      
In addition to Ms. Chernela Mount, she is survived by another daughter, Susan Chernilo, and a son, Abbey Chernela, both of New York; a sister, Diane Graf of Southbury, Conn., and a brother, Paul Moss of Hewlett, L.I.
      
The cause was complications from ovarian cancer, said her son, Anthony Blumka.
In addition to her son, a New York art dealer, she is survived by three grandchildren, Kimberly and Justin Nasatir and Amanda Goldberg, and a brother, John Zickel of Carmichael, Calif.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Joseph, and a son, Kenneth A., all of New York City, and three brothers, Jeff Miller and Jack Miller of Delphos, Ohio, and Tom Miller of Arlington, Va.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a second daughter, Rose, and a son, Tony, both of London, and six grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by a son, Harry, of Belchertown, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
Through her theater games and her book "Improvisations for the Theater" as well as the subsequent work of her son Paul Sills at the Compass and Second City in Chicago and with Story Theater, Mrs. Spolin influenced several generations of actors and directors, including Mike Nichols, Elaine May, Alan Arkin, Severn Darden, Barbara Harris, Anthony Holland, Paul Sand and Avery Schreiber.
In addition to her sister, of New York City, and her son Paul, of Baileys Harbor, Wis., she is survived by her third husband, Robert Kolmus Greene; another son, William Sills of Oakland, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sister, of New York City, and her son Paul, of Baileys Harbor, Wis., she is survived by her third husband, Robert Kolmus Greene; another son, William Sills of Oakland, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Rathgeb is survived by her husband of 34 years, Donald Sr.; three daughters, Elizabeth Pratt of Amesbury, Mass., and Laura Rathgeb and Mary Jo Balaskas, both of Manhattan; a son, Donald Jr. of Burlington, Vt.; a sister, Laura Mae Hellrung of Alton, Ill.; a brother, Howard Ellspermann of Cape Coral, Fla., and one granddaughter.
      
In 1965, she left her position as a radio and television services manager to rear her son.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her son, Charles, of Cliffside, N.J., and her sister, Norma Kramer of New York City.
      
The cause was pneumonia, said her son, Joseph.
In addition to her son, of Brooklyn, she is survived by two daughters, Leslie of Cincinnati and Christie Dennis of Cambridge, Mass.
She eventually landed an 18-month engagement with a band led by Mercer Ellington, Duke's son, and in 1946 she made her recording debut with the band, singing under the name Carmen Clarke.
B. Newman of Chicago, a son, Jon of Glen Rock, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hilson's daughter, Mary Wolf, died in 1987, and her son, John S., in 1991.
She is also survived by a daughter, Martha Orrick of Colorado Springs, Colo.; a son, Nicholas, of Andover, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Eddie Bauman; two granddaughters, and a great-granddaughter, all of Grants Pass.
      
Mrs. Jalet is survived by a son, Tuckerman S. Jalet of Westport, Conn.; four daughters, Jacqueline J. Gordon of Greenwich, Conn., Vanessa Jalet-Stanescu of Manhattan, Roberta J. Kurland of State College, Pa., and Frances Jalet-Miller of Queens, and eight grandchildren.
      
She died after a brief illness, said her son, Anthony.
In addition to her son, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Andrea, of Newton Highlands, Mass., and a grandson, Joshua Weiss.
      
Besides her grandson, she is survived by a son, Richard, of Manhattan, and three brothers, Jack Wells of Beverly Hills, Calif., Louis of San Mateo, Calif., and Irving of Long Island.
      

        Elizabeth Glaser, who waged a tireless campaign to draw attention to pediatric AIDS after she unknowingly passed the disease on to her daughter and son, died yesterday at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 47.
She had also given the virus to her son, Jake, during pregnancy.
She is survived by her husband and son; by her parents, Edith and Max Meyer of Sarasota, Fla., and by a brother, Peter, of Worcester, Mass.
      

        Elizabeth Glaser, who waged a tireless campaign to draw attention to pediatric AIDS after she unknowingly passed the disease on to her daughter and son, died yesterday at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 47.
She had also given the virus to her son, Jake, during pregnancy.
She is survived by her husband and son; her parents, Edith and Max Meyer of Sarasota, Fla., and a brother, Peter, of Worcester, Mass.
      
