The cause was cancer, said her son, Thomas Cushman of Manhattan.
Besides her son, she is survived by a sister, Amanda Clapperton-Blake  of London.
      
Within a few years, Dr. Sam and Captain Billy, as his son was soon known, had acquired first the Princess and then, in 1918, Bryant's New Showboat.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Louis Duddleston, and a son, James Breyley Jr., both of Raleigh; a daughter, Diana Caldwell of Anchorage, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Peter V. Tishman of Manhattan; two daughters, Margot T. Linton and Valerie T. Diker, both of Manhattan, 10 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Mott is survived by a son, Stewart Rawlings Mott of North Salem, N.Y.; a daughter, Maryanne Turnbull Mott of Santa Barbara, Calif.; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Irving; a son, Anthony Marc Benjamin, and a daughter, Lisa Stern Lasday, all of New York.
      
Mrs. Abelson is survived by her husband, Alan, a columnist for Barron's magazine; a daughter, Reed Abelson of Manhattan, a business reporter at The Times; a son, Justin, of Greenfield, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
By then she had fallen in love with one of George's poker cronies, Leopold Godowsky Jr., the son of the celebrated Austrian pianist.
Mrs. Godowsky, whose husband and brother Ira both died in 1983, is survived by a son, Leopold 3d, of Manhattan; three daughters, Alexis Gershwin of Beverly Hills, Calif.; Georgia Keidan of Chappaqua, N.Y., and Nadia Natali of Ojai, Calif., and eight grandchildren.
Dr. Kestenberg is survived by a son, Howard, of Foxborough, Mass.
Mr. Engel, a businessman, survives her, as do her daughter, of Manhattan; her son, Paul, of Oceanside, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
Her son, Jack Kosslyn, an acting teacher and casting director, said she died at the Jewish Home for the Aging in Los Angeles, where she had lived for the last 14 years.
In 1915, Bessie married and moved with her husband, Lewis Cohen, to New London, Conn., where her son and daughter were born.
For many years after the fire, her son said, she would react fearfully to thunder and lightning, burying her head in her arms and sobbing.
In 1940, after her marriage ended, she moved to Los Angeles, where her son was living.
She is survived by her son, Jack, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Sylvia Scott of Calistoga, Calif. A grandson, Jan Tangen, died last year.
      
Ms. Grillo is survived by her husband and a son, Jonathan, a tenor.
      
By the time she beat the charge in court, the publicity had made her a headliner and led to series of low-budget movies, among them ''The Son of Sinbad'' (1955).
In addition to her daughter, of Orr's Island, Me., she is survived by her son, Ram Rahman, of New Delhi, and two grandsons, Wardreath Wicks of Orr's Island, and Habib Wicks of New York City.
      

        Dorothea Zack Hanle, a longtime editor at Bon Appetit, a cookbook writer and one of the founders of Les Dames d'Escoffier, an international women's organization that promotes fine dining and wine, died Tuesday at the home of her son, Alan, in North Brunswick, N.J. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan and Ship Bottom, N.J.
        Ms. Hanle was born in Philadelphia and grew up in Ship Bottom, where her father, Richard A. Zachariae, was a real estate agent.
She is survived by her son; a daughter, Jennifer Malahowski of Austin, Tex., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Bess Michael of Washington, and Leslie, of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Edward H. Lowe of Edison, N.J.; a granddaughter; two sisters, Eddie Johnson Carkhum of Teaneck, N.J., and Ann J. Bolton of Los Angeles, and four brothers, Harry Johnson and Dr. James J. Johnson, both of Teaneck, and Dr. John William Johnson and Robert Johnson, both of the Bronx.
      
If anybody was going to stop him it was John D. Rockefeller Jr.'s son, Nelson A. Rockefeller, who had commissioned Rivera to paint a 1,000-square-foot fresco, ''Man at the Crossroads,'' in the great hall of the new RCA Building, the soaring Rockefeller Center capstone now known as the G.E.
; a son, Norman Rogers of West Brattleboro; a stepdaughter, Jean Rogers of Provincetown, Mass; a sister, Alice Dunn of Big Arm, Mont.
''
        To his granddaughter, who grew up on a nearby estate with her mother, Sophia, and father, Ilya, the author's second son, he was simply her beloved bushy-faced dedushka, the jolly man in a peasant shirt who bounced her on his knee and tickled her cheek with his whiskers.
As she made clear to relatives, the Swedish branch, descended from  Tolstoy's son Leo didn't count since they didn't speak Russian.
After the Russian Revolution she and her mother made a harrowing escape, eventually landing in Czechoslovakia, where Miss Tolstoy got a job as translator for a wealthy lumber merchant, Odo Bakovsky, and then married him in an Islamic ceremony, giving birth to a son, Serge, in 1922.
Miss Tolstoy, whose son had been kidnapped by his father then rekidnapped by her, had to settle for a divorce, but her son, her only immediate survivor, who now lives in Washington, is known as Serge Tolstoy.
Miss Tolstoy, whose son had been kidnapped by his father then rekidnapped by her, had to settle for a divorce, but her son, her only immediate survivor, who now lives in Washington, is known as Serge Tolstoy.
After supporting her mother and son by working as a hairdresser in Prague, Miss Tolstoy moved to Paris after her mother's death in the 1930's and worked as a nightclub singer.
She is survived by a son, Warren,  of Manassas, Va.; a daughter, Sarah Carroll Watson of South Berwick; two grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, William Brock Perlberg of Rancho Mirage, Calif.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Claudia Petursson of Kirkland, Wash., and Alison Tunney of Santa Monica; a son, Andrew Weiss of Los Angeles; a sister, Patricia Troop of London, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alex Herenchak; a daughter, Valerie, and a son, Gregory, all of Allentown, and a stepdaughter, Linda, of Stroudsburg, Pa.
      
Her son, Richard Schwartz Jr. of Denver, told The Chicago Tribune she had suffered from cancer and Alzheimer's disease in recent years.
Besides her son, she is survived by her daughter, Jane Hamilton of Denver, and three grandchildren.
The cause was cancer, her son, David, said.
She is survived by her son, David, and a daughter, Cathy, both of Los Angeles.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Alex, and a daughter, Elizabeth, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Clayton Lewis of Luxembourg.
      
Struggling to raise their only son, Peter, who survives her, she began writing seriously soon after while holding a variety of bookkeeping and clerical jobs.
Ms. Lewin is survived by her husband, and a son, Ralph, also of Palm Springs.
      
She is survived by a son, Frederick L. Meserve Jr. of Kennett Square, Pa; two daughters, Anne Davis of Winnetka, Ill., and Marcia Poutiatine of Vero Beach;  seven grandchildren and a great grandchild.
      
Mrs. Marx is survived by her husband; their son, Leonard Jr. of Greenwich, Conn.; two daughters, Mary Lynn Bianco of Los Angeles, and Jennifer Gruenberg of Scarsdale; two sisters, Muriel Ducibella of Orange, Conn., and Jane Smith of St. Louis; a brother, Rudolph Wise Jr. of Baldwin, Mo.
The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, her son John said.
In addition to her son John, of Manhattan, she is survived by two other sons, Robert Jr., of Haverford, Pa., and Steven, of West Nyack, N.Y.; two daughters, Alison, of Berkeley, Calif., and Jordan, of Nashville, and nine grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, survivors include a daughter, Dr. Karen A. Brush, and a son, Charles F. 4th, both of Manhattan.
      
She was also close to Mrs. Graham's son, Donald, who is the company's current chairman and chief executive as well as The Post's publisher.
She is survived by their son, Michael, of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Susan Emma Clurman of Manhattan and Carol Mae Duning of Alexandria, Va., and a sister, Ellen Schwartz of Waco, Tex.
      
''She held to her belief throughout her life,'' her son, Thomas, said.
In addition to her son, Thomas, of Fresh Meadows, Queens, she is survived by a daughter, Ann Herman of Lakeland, Fla., five grandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
      
Her son, Philip, who survives her, was until last year an executive at Money magazine; his wife, Christina Ferrari, is the managing editor of Teen People magazine.
She is survived by her husband, a son and a daughter.
She is survived by a son, Donald Klune of Ketchum, Idaho; a stepdaughter, Carol Klune of Arcata, Calif.; a brother, Arthur Peterson of Seattle; 17 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
Survivors include her brother, Jack Barrow; her son, Marc St. Louis, a music producer, and a grandson, Cameron.
      
With Mr. Adler, she had a son, Jacob (Jody) Adler, who died in 1987 of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also called Lou Gehrig's disease.
''
        Her other novels include ''The Son'' (1966), about an incestuous relationship between a mother and her son; ''The Lights of Earth'' (1984), about a woman and her married lover.
''
        Her other novels include ''The Son'' (1966), about an incestuous relationship between a mother and her son; ''The Lights of Earth'' (1984), about a woman and her married lover.
Dr. Allen is survived by three daughters, Dana Densmore of Santa Fe, N.M., Indra Allen of San Francisco and Dr. Martha Allen of Washington; a son, Mark, of Memphis; a brother, Donald Rehkopf of Chicago; and three grandchildren.
; a son, Brian Henry Cullman of Manhattan; two stepsons, Hugh Cullman of Beaufort, N.C., and Paul T. Cullman of Ferndale, Wash.; 12 grandchildren and 25 great-grandchildren.
      
The cause of death was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said her son Henry.
In addition to her husband and her son Henry, who lives in Washington, she is survived by two other children, Nancy Carlson of St. George, Vt., and Michael Richardson of Upper Montclair, N.J.; a sister, Mary Conrad of Albuquerque, N.M.; two brothers, T. P. Hazard Jr. of Rockville, Md., and Oliver C. Hazard of Bedford, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Jane Clough of Paris and Pound Ridge, N.Y., she is survived by a son, Peter A. Cooper of Brattleboro, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sister, Mrs. Sierra is survived by her son, Waldo Pizarro Jr. of Santiago; two daughters, Lenia Pizarro and Lorena Pizarro, both of Santiago, and eight other brothers and sisters.

        Jean Gardiner Chisholm Lindsey, a business and civic leader who in the 1980's served as an officer, trustee or member of 18 organizations and foundations at the same time, died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan on June 29, according to her son John.
In addition to her son John, of Greenwich, Conn., Mrs. Lindsey is survived by her son Alexander of Seattle; a sister, Cynthia Saint-Amand of New York, and three grandchildren.
In addition to her son John, of Greenwich, Conn., Mrs. Lindsey is survived by her son Alexander of Seattle; a sister, Cynthia Saint-Amand of New York, and three grandchildren.
''
        Married and divorced three times, Ms. Forrest is survived by a son, Forrest Feinman.
She is survived by a son, John Malcolm Stewart of Lancaster, Calif.; a sister, Ruby Birdson, and three grandchildren.
      
''
        Ms. Wight is survived by a son, James, and a daughter, Rosemary Page, both of Yorkshire in northern England.
      
''
        In addition to June Carter Cash, of Hendersonville, Tenn., Ms. Carter is survived by a daughter, Lorrie Bennett, and a son, Jay, both of Goodlettsville.
      
She is survived by her husband, Celestino Miranda; a son, Terry Sanders of Los Angeles, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, David Zolotnitsky; a brother, Yuri; a son, Yuri, and a stepdaughter, Tatiana Zolotnitsky, all of St. Petersburg.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Harvey Shultz, of Hackensack, N.J., and a daughter, Barbara Brocklehurst, of Franklin Lakes, N.J., both from a previous marriage; a brother, Jack Inwood, of Paramus, N.J.; a sister, Florence Schiffman, of Tamarac, Fla., and three grandchildren.
The survivor, Jessye, is her son, not her daughter.
She is survived by two daughters, Susan Sibley Little Bazemore of Des Moines and Mary Everitt Little-Vance of Roswell, Ga.; a son, James W. Little 5th of Alford, Fla.; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She died of cancer, said Albert Oehrle, the lawyer for her son, Baird Parker.
Besides Baird Parker of Lansdale, Pa., she is survived by her daughter, Kim Parker, of Delaware Water Gap, Pa.; another son, Gar Woods of Long Pond, Pa., and two grandchildren.
      
According to her son, Victor Garlin, the reason was ''her political organizing for improved schools in Harlem.
In addition to her son, of Berkeley, she is survived by a sister, Paula H. Gould of New York, and two granddaughters.
      
Mrs. Exner is survived by a son, David Bohrer; two brothers, Allen and Fred Immoor; and a sister, Joan Collingwood.
Besides her husband of 51 years, who is also a professor of mathematics at N.Y.U., she is survived by a son, Dr. James D. Lax of Manhattan,  and three grandsons.
      
She died in her sleep, said her son, Richard Hall.
Ms. Roman was returning from Italy with her 3-year-old son, Dickie.
''
        She said she saw smoke coming from the general area of her cabin and rushed there to protect her son.
Ms. Roman told a reporter she was never in fear for her son's life, but felt sure he would be safe in the lifeboat, which turned out to be true.
Ms. Roman and her son were among the 760 survivors of the Andrea Doria.
Her son, her only survivor, lives in California.
The cause was pneumonia, said her son Edward.
In addition to her son Edward, of Chicago, and daughter, Nancy, of Ithaca, N.Y., she is survived by another son, Roger, of Washington.
      
In addition to her son Edward, of Chicago, and daughter, Nancy, of Ithaca, N.Y., she is survived by another son, Roger, of Washington.
      
In ''Adam and Eve,'' Daniela Malusardi and Niklas Ek, Miss Cullberg's elder son, moved seamlessly from innocent playfulness to adult passion, a couple expelled from Eden but rejecting God as well.
Most of the other choreography was by Mats Ek, Miss Cullberg's other son, who cast her as a Mother Africa figure in his ''Soweto.
; a son, Walter Morris Heskes of Edison, N.J., a granddaughter and two grandsons.
Ms. Mortimer also wrote two highly praised volumes of memoirs and several television screenplays, including her adaptation of ''Portrait of a Marriage,'' the 1973 biography of Vita Sackville-West and her husband, Harold Nicolson, by Nigel Nicolson, their son.
She is survived by a son, Jeremy Mortimer of London; five daughters, Madelon Dimont Burk of France, Caroline Bennett of London, Julia Mankowitz of London, Deborah Rogers of Cornwall, England, and Sally Silverman of Bristol, England, and 11 grandchildren.
She is survived by two daughters, Faye Marie Rutledge of Winder, Ga., and Aleda Torgerson of Silver Bay, Minn., and a son, Marion, of Manhattan, Kan., as well as 16 grandchildren, 24 great-grandchildren and five great-great-grandchildren.
In the hope of sparing their son from the worst excesses of the period, the Yangs sent him to London.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Charles Blunden, her mother, Winifred Kilborn, and a sister, Carol Ann Shockley, all of Dayton; a son, Derek, of Charleston, W. Va., and four grandchildren.
      
Her son, Larry, died in 1996.
      
In the 1960's their son Jean Michel Casadesus sometimes joined them for performances of the Bach Triple Concerto and Robert Casadesus's Concerto for Three Pianos.
Mrs. Casadesus is survived by a daughter, Therese Casadesus Rawson of Berwyn, Pa., and another son, Guy Casadesus of Toulon, France, as well as five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
Born Faith Apfelbaum in New York in 1936, she grew up in Manhattan and in New Rochelle, N.Y., and attended Cornell University, where she came under the thrall of an authoritative English professor named William M. Sale Jr. She worked on the school newspaper with his son, Kirk, whom she would marry.
In addition to her son Eric, of Maryland, she is survived by her other son, Colin D. Murray of Jacksonville.
In addition to her son Eric, of Maryland, she is survived by her other son, Colin D. Murray of Jacksonville.
She is survived by her husband, Benjamin Kaplan, a retired justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts; a son, James Kaplan of Northampton, Mass., a daughter, Nancy Mansbach of Newton, Mass.,  and four grandchildren.
''
        In addition to Ms. Swansen, who lives in Pittsville, Wis., Mrs. Zimmermann is survived by her husband, Arnold; another daughter, Lloie, of Pittsville; a son, Thomas, of New Hope, Pa.; two grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
