Her death was due to natural causes, said her son, Stefano Costa.
Her son, Jerome, died before her, and she leaves no immediate survivors.
She is survived by a sister, Jean Beasley; a brother, Charlie Nellums; a son, Cedric; and a granddaughter, according to the University of Southern California.
      
The cause was a heart attack at Akomfo Anokye Hospital, according to her son, the philosopher Kwame Anthony Appiah.
She is survived by her son, the Laurance Rockefeller professor of philosophy at Princeton, who lives in Manhattan and Princeton, N.J., and three daughters, Isabel Endresen, an economist, of Windhoek, Namibia, Adwo Edun, a landscape gardener, of Lagos, Nigeria, and Abena Appiah of Kumasi; and eight grandchildren.
''
        Known to many in Ghana as Auntie Peggy, Mrs. Appiah was a prolific writer of children's books, many of them based on the Ghanaian folk tales her husband told their children, as well as of novels, poetry and most recently a collection of 7,000 Ashanti proverbs, on which she collaborated with her son.
' '' her son said.
One of her most successful collaborations was with Edward Hall, Sir Peter Hall's son, who established the Propeller Theater, an all-male Shakespearean troupe at the Watermill Theater.
She is survived by her husband; her mother; her son, Sam, 23, and her daughter, Charley, 21.
Mrs. Muse is survived by two daughters, Juanita Fenninger and Diane Tax, both of Mahopac, N.Y.; a son, Robert Muse; eight grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
Her son, Richard, died in 2002.
The obituary also omitted the residence of her son, Robert.
They include a son, Alastair, and three daughters, Ailsa, Rachel and Fiona.
Guest is survived by a son, Jonathan Higgins of Eugene, Ore.
The apparent cause was respiratory failure, said her son Michael.
Besides her son Michael, of Brooklyn, Ms. O'Neill is survived by another son, Brian, of Cascais, Portugal; two brothers, David Dross of Augusta, Ga., and Gerald Dross of Hampstead, N.C.; and four grandchildren.
Besides her son Michael, of Brooklyn, Ms. O'Neill is survived by another son, Brian, of Cascais, Portugal; two brothers, David Dross of Augusta, Ga., and Gerald Dross of Hampstead, N.C.; and four grandchildren.
In addition to her husband and daughter, of Bethesda, Md., she is survived by a son, Jeff, of Palo Alto, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      
They had a son, Will, now 13.
In addition to her son and her father, Ms. Reeve is survived by her sisters, Deborah Morosini and Adrienne Morosini Heilman, and two stepchildren, Matthew and Alexandra.
The cause was chronic pulmonary disease, said her son, Daniel Allentuck.
They had a son, Daniel, and a daughter, Katherine.
When her grandchildren were born, Ms. Stapleton moved to Lenox to be near family, namely her daughter, Katharine Allentuck Bambery, her grandson Max and her granddaughter Alexandra, all of whom survive her, along with her son, Daniel, of Manhattan, and a brother, John, of Troy.
Ms. Braden is survived by a son, James, of San Francisco, and a daughter, Elizabeth, of Austin, Tex.
Survivors include a daughter, Marin, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a son, Bard, of La Jolla, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
Ms. Gaines died of natural causes, said her son Richard.
Besides her son Richard, of Greentown, Pa., she is survived by another son, Mallory, of Newark; five grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Richard, of Greentown, Pa., she is survived by another son, Mallory, of Newark; five grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Her death was announced by her son, John Zeck.
Ms. Zeck is survived by her daughter, Deborah Zeck Thorne of Nyack, N.Y.; her son, John, of Littleton, Colo.; and four grandchildren.
''
        They lived in Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), and their union produced her only child, a son, Robin.
She kept the name Spark, partly for her son's sake and partly because she thought it had ''some ingredient of life and of fun.
She finally succeeded in returning aboard a troopship in 1944, leaving her son, then 6, in the care of convent nuns in Central Africa until the war was over.
''
        In her later years it became clear that she and her son, Robin, a painter who lives in Edinburgh, were irreconcilably estranged over various issues, including what he referred to as her abandonment of him, as well as her opinions about his ability as an artist and his public statements about their heritage.
Spark's literary history when she donated letters from her son to the National Library of Scotland.
The cause was complications of diabetes, her son Bobo told The South African Press Association.
Besides her son Bobo, she is survived by another son, Justice; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
Besides her son Bobo, she is survived by another son, Justice; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Connelly is survived by a son, Robert Jr. of Las Vegas; three daughters, Alice Lanzi of Staten Island, Margaret Nicholson of Katonah, N.Y., and Therese Shannon of Goshen, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
In addition to Ms. Marre and three grandsons, all of Brooklyn, Ms. Diener is survived by her husband and a son, Adam Marre, both of Manhattan.
      
Besides her husband, a well-known Republican from the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Randy, of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Claire Cloud of New York City and Leslie Goodman of Los Angeles; a brother, John Furrer of Vero Beach, Fla.; and six grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include her husband; a daughter, Marial; and a son, Valerio, all of Milan.
Besides her husband, a well-known Republican from the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Randy, of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Claire Cloud, of New York City and Leslie Goodman, of Los Angeles; a brother, John Furrer, of Vero Beach, Fla.; and six grandchildren.
      
From 1959 to 1974, Mr. and Mrs. Jones lived in Paris, where they adopted their son, Jamie, who now lives in Washington.
Besides her daughter and son, she is survived by a brother, Mark Mosolino of Bethel Hill, Pa., and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was lung cancer, her son, Jacob, said.
Besides her daughter, of Bethesda, Md., Mrs. Rosenbaum is survived by her son, Daniel, of Washington, and two grandchildren.
'' Her role was Sesto, the avenging son of Pompey, though in this production, zapped to the present day Middle East, Sesto was a terrorist armed with an Uzi.
Her son William died in July 1951, and her son Brian died in January 1992.
Her son William died in July 1951, and her son Brian died in January 1992.
Ms. Church is survived by their son, Thomas.
Two years later, she gave birth to a son, Richard.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Foster is survived by a daughter, Rachel Kodsi, and a son, Joshua, both of Brooklyn; a sister, Jeanette Katz, of Queens; and three grandchildren.
The cause was complications of a recent heart attack, her son Al Seckel said.
In addition to her son Al Seckel, of Malibu, Calif., Ms. Schonthal is survived by her husband, Paul Seckel, an artist, of New Rochelle, and two other sons, Bernhard and Ben, both of Scarsdale.
The cause was cancer, said her son Lawrence R. Bailey Jr., a lawyer, who practiced with his mother for many years.
From 1976 until her retirement in 1999, she was the senior partner in Walker & Bailey, one of the city's few black law firms, which she established with her son.
In addition to her son Lawrence Jr., of the Bronx, she is survived by another son, Bruce E. Bailey, a physician, of Norwich, Conn.; a sister, Danetta Black, formerly of White Plains; and three grandchildren.
In addition to her son Lawrence Jr., of the Bronx, she is survived by another son, Bruce E. Bailey, a physician, of Norwich, Conn.; a sister, Danetta Black, formerly of White Plains; and three grandchildren.
The building has since been sold, her son said, and the plaque is now gone.
      
Her death was announced by her son, the Rev.
Other survivors include her husband of 40 years, Reuben Earnest Adams Jr.; their son, Reuben III; a brother, Glodies Jackson; and eight grandchildren.
; and her daughter, Isabel Jay, and her son, Florian Jay, both of New York.
      
In 1968, she joined forces with her son, David, to form Annely Juda Fine Art, inaugurating the gallery with her first summer exhibition of non-objective art.
In addition to her son, she is survived by two daughters, Carol Spund of Glasgow and Susan Habrovitsky of Fontenay-sous-Bois, France; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her son, Stuart H. Coleman.
Besides her son, of Scarsdale, N.Y., she is also survived by a daughter, Jennifer C. Damsky, of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
Besides her husband, a former president of Pratt Institute in Brooklyn who is now the director of the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans, Ms. Ilchman is survived by a son, Frederick, of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Hollinger of New York; two sisters, Nancy Dickinson of Indianapolis and Elizabeth Stone of Los Angeles; and a brother, Donald C. Stone Jr. of Oakland, Calif.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by her son, Max, and her sister, Beba Shamash of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Ovshinsky is survived by a daughter, Robin Dibner, and a son, Steven Dibner, from a previous marriage; three stepsons, Ben, Harvey and Dale Ovshinsky; and four grandchildren.
She had a close personal appreciation for both causes: her older sister Rosemary was born mildly retarded and was lobotomized at 23, and she, Mr. Lawford and her son Christopher had waged their own battles with drugs and alcohol.
''
        In addition to her brother Edward and her three sisters, Jean Kennedy Smith, Eunice Kennedy Shriver and Rosemary Kennedy, Mrs. Lawford is survived by her son, Christopher, of New York, and three daughters, Sydney, of Washington, Robin, of New York, and Victoria Frances, of Washington, and 10 grandchildren.
The obituary also misstated the place of residence of Mrs. Lawford's son, Christopher.
Mrs. Boegner is survived by a daughter, Dita Douglas Naylor-Leyland of Manhattan; a son, J. Gordon Douglas III of Pawling, N.Y.; three grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      
''
        But Mrs. Lawford's son, Christopher Lawford, wrote in his best-selling memoir, ''Symptoms of Withdrawal,'' published last year, that his mother had been resentful of her father for ''not being allowed fully to live up to her potential.
She had a close personal appreciation for both causes: her older sister Rosemary, who died last year, was born mildly retarded and was lobotomized at 23; and she, Mr. Lawford and her son had waged their own battles with drugs and alcohol.
''
        In addition to her brother Edward, Mrs. Lawford is survived by her son, Christopher, of California; three daughters, Sydney and Victoria Frances, both of Washington, and Robin, of New York; her sisters Jean Kennedy Smith and Eunice Kennedy Shriver; and 10 grandchildren.
The obituary also misstated the place of residence of Mrs. Lawford's son, Christopher.
Besides her sister, Ms. White, of Manhattan, she is survived by a son, Patrick McGivern, of Palm Desert, and two grandchildren.
The cause was a heart attack, said her son, William D. Harmsen Jr.
        Over a career in confections that spanned 50 years, Mrs. Harmsen and her late husband, William, created scores of original candies on their farm in Colorado, including chocolates, fruit chews, jelly beans and lollipops.
Dr. Shapiro is survived by her husband of 39 years, Dr. Peter A. Shapiro, an orthodontist; a son, Evan, and a daughter, Jessica Mirsky; and a grandchild.
      
She is survived by her son, Eliot Golden of Roslyn, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
Besides her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, James T. Ramey, whom she married in 1941; a son, James N., of Bethesda; a brother, Jack Rubin, formerly of Little Neck, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Prem Ramachandran, of New Jersey.
      
The cause was pulmonary disease, her son Lawrence Barnett Jr. said.
Besides her son Lawrence, of Los Angeles, Miss Bigley is survived by her husband of 53 years, Lawrence R. Barnett, whom she met when he was president of the Music Corporation of America, a major talent agency; three other sons, Robert, of Denver, William, of Los Angeles and James, of Atherton, Calif.; two daughters, Claudia Scott of Concord, N.H., and Laurey Treiger of Los Angeles; 16 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Alan R. Trustman, a screenwriter, and a son, Caleb Urry.
Family crises arose -- a son's first dance, a daughter's first crush -- and were firmly but lovingly resolved.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband of 24 years, David Cuming; a son, Andrew; and a sister, Rita Blake, all of Manhattan.
She was traveling with her daughter-in-law, Yelena Hage, and Ms. Hage's 5-month-old son, Bryan Hage, who survived with minor injuries.
Her eldest son, Lt. Gen. Liu Yuan, was appointed a political commissar of the Academy of Military Sciences, a rank equivalent to a cabinet minister, according to Reuters.
(Her first son, Ronald, was given the last name Jackson; decades later, she told him he was actually Mr. McPhatter's son, and he now sings with a latter-day lineup of the Drifters.
(Her first son, Ronald, was given the last name Jackson; decades later, she told him he was actually Mr. McPhatter's son, and he now sings with a latter-day lineup of the Drifters.
)
        In 1955 Ms. Brown married Earl Swanson, a saxophonist, and had a second son, Earl; the marriage ended in divorce.
They had two children, a daughter, Susanna, and a son, Alan.
Their son, a drug addict, contracted AIDS and died of complications of his addiction in 1990.
Ms. Comden reminisced about her Brooklyn childhood, her student years and her long marriage in a 1995 memoir, ''Off Stage,'' in which she also told of the difficult circumstances of her son's struggle with drugs.
Mrs. Wagner died at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital of complications from a fall in the bedroom of the home on East 62nd Street where she had lived since 1941, said her older son, Christopher Cerf.
''In my dad's day, it was theater people mixing with book people,'' said Jonathan Cerf, her younger son.
Mrs. Wagner died at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital of complications from a fall in the bedroom of the home on East 62nd Street where she had lived since 1941, said her older son, Christopher Cerf.
''In my dad's day, it was theater people mixing with book people,'' said Jonathan Cerf, her younger son.
The cause was a stroke, said her son John Tepper Marlin of Manhattan.
In addition to her son John, she is survived by her daughters Olga Marlin, who lives in Kenya, and Sheila O'Neill and Elisabeth Paice , who live in Britain; her son Randal Marlin of Ottawa; 18 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
In addition to her son John, she is survived by her daughters Olga Marlin, who lives in Kenya, and Sheila O'Neill and Elisabeth Paice , who live in Britain; her son Randal Marlin of Ottawa; 18 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
Her death was confirmed by her son, Charles E. Carey.
She is survived by her husband, James Brooks; her son, Jon Vannerson; her daughter, Cathy Smith; and five grandchildren.
