Besides Mrs. Whitman, Mrs. Todd is survived by another daughter, Kate Beach of Washington; a son, Webster B. Todd Jr. of Pray, Mont.
Their elder son, Jonathan, was born on the day of her first examinations at law school, and their younger son, Reuben, was born a year later, while they were living and studying at Cambridge in England on a Fulbright fellowship.
Their elder son, Jonathan, was born on the day of her first examinations at law school, and their younger son, Reuben, was born a year later, while they were living and studying at Cambridge in England on a Fulbright fellowship.
Mrs. Frum is survived by two daughters, a son, eight grandchildren, 14 great-grandchildren and seven great-great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Sarah W. Adams, a historic preservation specialist of Ithaca, N.Y., and Mary Chatham, an artist of Manhattan, and a son, William S., a lawyer, also of Manhattan.
      
Loud is survived by a son, Roger, of Lake Placid, N.Y.; a sister, Elisabeth Harrison of Rumson, N.J.; three brothers, Herbert McAneny of Princeton, N.J., Ernest McAneny of New York City and David McAneny of Newtown Square, Pa.; seven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Alexis, of McLean, Va.; a sister, Nina Moore Galston of Huntington, L.I.
Mrs. Bicks died in her sleep, said her son David, of Manhattan.
Besides David, a senior partner in the New York law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Leiby & MacRae, Mrs. Bicks is survived by another son, Robert, a senior partner in the New York law firm of Breed, Abbott & Morgan, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Eugene, a certified public accountant in New Rochelle, N.Y.; a daughter, Dr. Irene Thompson, professor emeritus at the University of Florida at Gainesville, and four grandchildren.
      
Miss Martin's son, the actor Larry Hagman, and daughter, Heller Halliday DeMeritt, introduced the program.
Miss Bry is survived by her son, Dr. Bry Benjamin of Manhattan, two grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
Miss Stuart had been in poor health for years, said her son, Peter Warwick.
She is survived by her son, who lives in Middletown, N.J.
      
Mrs. Dietz is survived by a daughter, Elaine Fenton of Manhattan; a son, Lee E. Surut of Bethesda, Md.
Twice widowed, Mrs. Burtin is survived by a son, Thomas Pineles Golden of Stony Point, N.Y.; a daughter, Carol Burtin Fripp of Toronto, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Lucretia Harrison of Port Washington and Margaret Gruger of Anderson, S.C.; a son, Theodore, of Jacksonville; five grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Brown is survived by a son, Louis A. McMillen of Concord, Mass., three grandsons and two great-grandchildren.
Her son, Peter, died in an accident in 1954.
She is survived by a son, Donaldson, of Jackson, and three grandsons.
      
Mrs. Hill died of esophageal cancer, a son said.
She is survived by her son, Leonardo, of Milan; a sister, Cristina, also of Milan, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Rumsey; a daughter, Louise Griggs of Hanover, N.H.; a son, David, of Forest Hills, Queens; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She died of heart failure, said her son, Robert, of Binghamton, N.Y.
        Mrs. Schumann was the principal donor to the Florence and John Schumann Foundation, which she established with her husband, John J. Schumann Jr., a former president and chairman of the General Motors.
In addition to her son Robert, she is survived by another son, Ward F., of Scottsdale, Ariz.; a daughter, Caroline Mark of Wausau, Wis.; a sister, Harriet Dickenson of Binghamton, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren, and 7 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Robert, she is survived by another son, Ward F., of Scottsdale, Ariz.; a daughter, Caroline Mark of Wausau, Wis.; a sister, Harriet Dickenson of Binghamton, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren, and 7 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived, in addition to Mr. Palmer, by a son, Tom Kingdon, and a grandson, Nathaniel.
      
She is survived, in addition to Mr. Palmer, by a son, Tom Kingdon, and a grandson, Nathaniel.
      
She died of heart failure, said her son, Nathan Royce Silverstein, a lawyer who lives in Manhattan.
Besides her son, she is survived by a sister, Blanche Blum of Miami Beach, Fla.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Mark, foreign editor of The San Francisco Chronicle; a daughter, Suzanne Abel-Vidor, director of the Grace Hudson Museum in Ykiah, Calif.; a brother, Arthur C. Prevost of Sunnyvale, Calif., and one grandchild.
      
Mrs. Lehfeldt is survived by her husband, Hans; a son, Richard, of Washington, D.C., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, James H. 3d of Washington; two daughters, Elizabeth Costle of Woodstock, Vt., and Clarissa Batzell of Arlington, Mass.
Their son, Hob Broun, a writer, died in 1987.
      
She is survived by her father, Adrian C. Israel of Pound Ridge, N.Y.; two daughters, Julie Ann Pollitz and Karen Jeannette Rosen, and a son, Thomas Andrew, all of Manhattan, and a brother, Thomas C. Israel of Manhattan.
      
She died of heart failure, said her son Martin.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Thomas Youngblood Simon of Los Angeles, and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her husband, Owen Baird of Brooklyn; a son, Buddy Scott also of Brooklyn; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Donna, of Los Angeles; a son, Jonathan, of Manhattan, and two sisters.
      
She is survived, in addition to her daughter, by a son, Rufus, of Dresden, Me.
She is survived by a daughter, Helen Hartley Mead Platt of Madison, N.J..; a son, Robert Hartley Mead of Norfolk, Conn., and 12 grandchildren.
      
She died after a heart attack, her son Jay Colebrook said.
In addition to her son Jay, of Geneva, Mrs. Colebrook is survived by another son, John Van Kirk of Boston, and a daughter, Binda, of Seattle.
      
In addition to her son Jay, of Geneva, Mrs. Colebrook is survived by another son, John Van Kirk of Boston, and a daughter, Binda, of Seattle.
      
She was 96 years old and had lived in Manhattan and Tompkins Corners, N.Y.
        She died of heart failure, said her son Ernest.
She died of breast cancer, said her son, Lawrence.
She is survived by a son, Joseph, of Scarsdale; a daughter, Babette Sonneborn, also of Scarsdale; 10 grandchildren, and 28 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Dorothy Lonergan of Miami, and Eileen Oseroff of Rochester, ; a son, Phillip, of Freedom Plains, N.Y.; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Irvin B. Schwartz, executive administrator for psychiatry at New York Medical College; two children from a former marriage to Robert C. Pilpel, an executive at the Hudson Guild Settlement House, who died in 1987; a daughter, Judith E. Appelbaum, and a son, Robert H. Pilpel, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Juliette Brudney of Cambridge, Mass., and Ruth Frank of Sanibel, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, John, of Washington, and two grandsons.
      
"
        Survivors include a daughter, Mary Ann Anderson, and a son, Robert Lansing Jr.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Bertrand L. Taylor 3d, who is an investor; their daughter, Lauren, and their son, Lindsay, all of Naples, Fla.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Bertrand L. Taylor 3d, who is an investor; their daughter, Lauren, and their son, Lindsay, all of Naples, Fla.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Dr. Adrienne Dunbar of Coral Gables, Fla., and Gail, of New York; a son, Dean, of New York, and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Barry Levine, a partner in the Washington law firm of Dickstein, Shapiro & Morin; a son, Adam Golden Levine, a student at the University of California at Santa Barbara; two daughters, Kiera S. Levine and Surell Golden Levine; her father, Dr. Benjamin E. Golden, a general surgeon, and her mother, Dita Seiden Golden, of Washington, and two sisters, Soma Golden Behr, the national editor of The New York Times, of Manhattan, and Carol Golden Sadeh, a historian and tour guide, of Ein Karem, Israel.
      
She is survived by a son Bret, of Manhattan, news director at WNBC-TV.
      
She is survived by a son, Malcolm Turnbull of Sydney, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, Robert, an astonomer, author and professor of earth sciences at Dartmouth College; a daughter, Dorothy Heller of Creston, N.C., and a sister, Yolanda Pesce, of Tucson.
      
She is survived by a son, Finn, of Andover, N.J., a brother, Abraham Resika of Manhattan; a sister, Lilian Kandel of the Bronx, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son from a previous marriage, Frank D. Stout of St. Helena, Calif.
      
She is survived by a son, John Cooper Bland of Conshohocken, Pa.; five grandchidren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, John Cooper Bland of Conshohocken, Pa.; five grandchidren and five great-grandchildren.
      
Twice widowed, Mrs. Forrest is survived by a son and two daughters from her first marriage, Frederick B. Williamson 3d, Virginia Hutton and Beverly Magill, all of New Hope; eight grandchildren, 10 great-grandchildren and one great-great grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband, Col. William R. Cameron; two daughters, Catherine, of Washington and Laurie Desimone, of Carmel; a son, Bruce, of Santa Maria, Calif.; two sisters, Nancy Easterbrook of Carmel and Winifred Cox of Tiberon, Calif.; a brother, Dr. Benjamin Stilwell of Guam, and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. David Schachter, professor of physiology and cellular biophysics at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons; a son, Jonathan, a post-doctoral researcher at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge, Mass.
She died of pneumonia, said her son, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt of the Bronx.
In addition to her son Christopher, book critic for The New York Times, she is survived by two other sons, Carl, a graphic artist and painter, and Alexander, a sound engineer, both of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Gilden died of a lung ailment, her son, Jairus, said.
She is survived by her fourth husband, Phillip Tutton, and a son.
      
She is survived by a son and a daughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, H. Clifford Page; a son, Ronald, of Burke, Va.; a daughter, Lois Drew of Manhattan; a sister, Alice LeGrand of Fair Lawn, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
"
        Later roles included an alcoholic mother in "Edward, My Son," in both London and New York; an unloved spinster in "The Heiress," leading parts in Brecht's "Good Woman of Setzuan," Ibsen's "Hedda Gabler" and "Rosmersholm" and the 10-hour tour de force as Margaret of Anjou in the Royal Shakespeare Company's "Wars of the Roses.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Elena Mezzetti of Perugia, Italy; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Goldman is survived by a son, Jacob, of Glen Rock, N.J.; two daughters, Ethel Weiner of Elmwood Park, N.J., and Margaret Stager of Paterson, N.J.; 16 grandchildren, and 19 great-grandchildren.
      

        Katherine Byrne Mast, one of the first female sugar brokers in New York City, died on Wednesday in a nursing home in Devon, Pa. She was 84 years old and lived in Naples, Fla.
        Mrs. Mast died of Parkinson's disease, said her nephew, John Ferguson of Greenwich, Conn.
        During the early 1930's, she worked in the Manhattan office of W. H. Edgar and Son, sugar brokers of Detroit.
Reviewing Ms. Remick's performance in "Nutcracker," a 1987 NBC mini-series in which she played a woman who manipulates her son into committing murder, Mr. O'Connor wrote in The New York Times: "If she had been born with Bette Davis eyes or Katharine Hepburn cheekbones, she might long ago have been recognized as one of this country's most outstanding dramatic actresses.
Her survivors include her husband of 21 years, Kip Gowans, a producer; a daughter, Kate Colleran Sullivan; a son, Matthew Remick Colleran; two stepdaughters, Justine Gowans Solly and Nicola Gowans, and her mother, Pat Packard.
She died of heart failure, said her son, Philip Langner.
In addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, Miss Marshall is survived by two granddaughters.
Surviving are a son, Roger Zeeman of Bridgewater, N.J.; a brother, Warren Hirsch of Weston, Conn., and a grandson.
      
She is survived by a son, Oliver, of Vancouver, B.C.
She died of cancer, said her son, David.
In addition to her son David, a professor of literature at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, she is survived by another son, John, Centennial Professor of English at Vanderbilt University.
      
In addition to her son David, a professor of literature at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, she is survived by another son, John, Centennial Professor of English at Vanderbilt University.
      
She is survived by four daughters, Lucille Buergers of Hampton Bays, L.I., Mary Ehmann of Winnetka, Ill., Jean Schott of Alexandria, Va., and Ruth Ann Howley of Piscataway, N.J.; a son, Charles A., of Des Moines; 10 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. Richard H. Timpson Jr. of Hamden; six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      

        Alline Elizabeth Davis, a past director of the Gramercy Park Neighborhood Association who was active in community affairs, died on June 18 at her son's home in Vista, Calif. She was 83 years old and until recently lived in the Gramercy Park section of Manhattan.
In addition to her son, Del, Mrs. Davis is survived by a daughter, Mona Shorey of Sutter Creek, Calif.; a brother, Edward Ponder of Chicago; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Natalie Raetz of Long Beach, Calif., and a son, George Raetz of Denver.
      
She is survived by a son, Charles M. Wyzanski of Cambridge, a daughter, Anita Robboy of Cambridge; a sister, Anita Warburg of Manhattan, and four granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a son, Charles M. Wyzanski, and a daughter, Anita Robboy, both of Cambridge; a sister, Anita Warburg of Manhattan, and four granddaughters.
      
Mrs. Feinstein's older son by a previous marriage, John Dakin, who lived in Poughkeepsie, died of a heart attack on July 23.
In addition to Mr. Feinstein, she is survived by her younger son, Patrick Dakin of Poughkeepsie; a daughter, Colleen Trogisch of Pleasant Valley, N.Y.; and two granddaughters.
      
"
        She performed in the recent movie "Dying Young" with Julia Roberts and her son Campbell Scott, who also acted with her in the Broadway revivals of "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and "Ah, Wilderness!
"
        In addition to Campbell Scott, she is survived by another son, Alexander R. Scott, a theatrical stage manager and writer, and two grandchildren.
      
She died of complications from lung congestion, her son Michael said.
She died of cancer, said her son Alexander R. Scott, a theatrical stage manager and writer.
"
        Among her many screen credits was the recent movie "Dying Young," with Julia Roberts and her son Campbell Scott, who also acted with her in the Broadway revivals of "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and "Ah, Wilderness!
Ms. Lefcourt is survived by her husband of 26 years, Robert, of New York City; a daughter, Jenny; a son, Daniel; her mother, Marjorie Hoffman of New York City, and a sister, Elaine Hoffman Rattet of New Rochelle, N.Y.
      
She was 62 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J.
        Dr. Abrams died of breast cancer, her son, Linus, said.
Besides her son, Dr. Linus Abrams of Brookline, Mass., Dr. Abrams is survived by her husband, Nathan, and a daughter, Lydia, of New York City.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Schapiro's survivors include a daughter, Jane G., also of Manhattan; a son, Robert A., of Columbia, Md., and a sister, Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum of United States District Court in Manhattan.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Elizbeth W. Goldwasser of Urbana, Ill., and Katherine W. Pollak of Philadelphia; a son, Dr. William P. Weiss of Chester, Vt., 18 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
      
She died of complications from a series of strokes, said a son, Lawrence Gladieux, also of Alexandria.
In addition to her son Lawrence, she is survived by her husband, Bernard L. Gladieux Sr.; two other sons, Bernard Jr. of Gilbertsville, Pa., and Jay A. of New Canaan, Conn.; a brother, Lowell Skilliter of Toledo, Ohio; a sister, Lois Jones of Harrisburg, Va., seven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
Correction:  August 19, 1991, Monday
        An obituary on Aug. 7 about Persis Emma Gladieux, a horticulture expert, omitted a surviving son.
She is survived by her husband, Harry A. Jacobs Jr., former chairman of Bache Group Inc., now known as Prudential Securities; a daughter, Nancy Jacobs Haneman of Rye, N.Y.; a son, Harry A.
She is survived by a son, David, and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Cline is survived by her husband, Hugh F.; a daughter, Lynn Hunter Cline of Princeton, and a son, Hugh D., of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by a son, Prince Raad bin Zeid, and two children from a previous marriage: another son, Nejad Devrim of Warsaw, a painter, and a daughter, Sirin Devrim Trainer of New York City, an actress.
      
She is survived by a son, Prince Raad bin Zeid, and two children from a previous marriage: another son, Nejad Devrim of Warsaw, a painter, and a daughter, Sirin Devrim Trainer of New York City, an actress.
      
She is survived by a son, David, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, L. Emery Katzenbach, the former chairman of White, Weld & Company, an investment banking firm; two daughters, Mrs. Pamela M. Thye of Wellesley Hills, Mass., and Caroline N. Sidnam of New York City; a son, Robert D. C. Meeker Jr. of Elizabethtown, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Thomas Preston, of Silver Spring, Md.
Her companion was Frank Hopler of Cliffside Park, N.J.
        She is survived by a son, Brett Smith of Miami; two brothers, Bernard, of Leonia, N.J., and Drew, of Miami; a sister, Marjorie Smith of Miami, and a niece and two nephews.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by a son, John Burnett, of Bali, Indonesia, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Philip Gage Dibble, and a sister, Kathleen Gage Hutchison, both of Montreal.
      
She is survived by a son, Eugene, of Berkeley, Calif.; a daughter, Frances Commins Bennett of New Haven, five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
Her son, Richard, said she died of cancer.
In addition to her son, Richard, of Boston, she is survived by two sisters, Judy Halpern of Fresh Meadows, Queens, and Toby Halpern of Malverne, L.I.
She is survived by her husband, Jonah Perry Sr.; her mother, Eva Rutledge; a son, Jonah Jr.; a daughter, Nicol, and several brothers and sisters.
      
' " Effects of Apartheid
        In her stories and in such novels as "A Guest of Honour," "Burger's Daughter" and "My Son's Story," Miss Gordimer has written of the effects of apartheid on the relationships of men and women, parents and children.
"My Son's Story," published in 1990, describes "love in an insupportable society, the complications and obstacles inherent in the path to change," the academy said.
"
        She is survived by her husband, Herbert Alan Feuerlicht of Manhattan, and a son, Ira, of Brooklyn.
      
Mrs. Blum is survived by her husband, Robert E.; a son, John R. H., and a daughter, Alice B. Yoakum, both of Lakeville; a brother, Donald Halsey of New Orleans; 10 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Donald J. of Stamford, Conn.; four grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by a son, James H. 3d, of Jupiter Island; a daughter, Barbara Sweet of Lake Placid; five grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, John, of Riverside, Conn.; a daughter, Anne Dow of Cambridge, Mass.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Michael, of St. Louis, four grandchildren and a brother, Edward, of Bridgehampton, N.Y.
      
She is survived by son, Don, of Harwich, Mass., and a brother, Edward J. Eyring of Langhorne, Pa.
      
