She is survived by a daughter, Susan Gossen, of Manhattan; a son, Stewart V., of Roslyn, L.I.
Beside her husband, Mrs. Gruss is survived by a son, Martin D., a daughter, Dr. Evelyn Lipper, a pediatrician and the wife of former Deputy Mayor Kenneth Lipper, all of New York City, and six grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Dr. Peter Schilder of Annapolis; a daughter, Jane S. Knowles of Santa Fe, N.M.; three grandchildren, and a brother, Karl Bender of Milwaukee, Ore.
      
She is survived by her husband, Naphtali Lewis; a daughter, Dr. Judith L. Herman, of Cambridge; a son, John B., of Cambridge, and two grandchildren.
      
; a son, Alexander Bacon Brook, of Sag Harbor, L.I.
Survivors, in addition to her husband, are a son by a previous marriage, the Rev.
She is survived by a son, Laurence Jr., of St. Simon's Island, Ga.; two daughters, Helen Clarke of Atlanta and Katherine Gutelius of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; 21 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
      
''
        The Wickers had a son, Walter Charles Jr., who died in action as a fighter pilot in World War II, and a daughter, Nancy.
She is survived by her husband, Jesse, a retired New York lawyer; a son, Dr. Gregory Siskind of Manhattan, and a brother, Nathaniel Drabkin, also of Manhattan.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Ogden Mills Phipps of Westbury, L.I.
She is survived by a daughter, Rhoda, of Manhattan; a son, Basil, of Queens; a sister, Anna Stein of St. Petersburg, Fla.; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Bellin is survived by her husband and her son, Kristian.
      
She is survived by a son, Thomas E. Huser Jr. of North Palm Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Eleanor H. Kirk of Bronxville, N.Y.; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She married John Varian, a lawyer, in 1936, and retired to raise their son.
She is survived by her husband and by a son, Alfred, of Stowe, Vt.
      
She is survived by a son, Howard, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Paul, of Lexington, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Nerie D. Clark Jr., of Hickory, N.C., a sister and two brothers.
      
The book reflected her life as the surviving parent of a son and daughter, ages 9 and 5.
Mrs. Caine is survived by her son, Jonathan Saul, and her daughter, Elizabeth.
      
Mrs. Lewis is survived by her son, Anthony Lewis, a columnist of The New York Times, a sister, Frieda Berg of the Riverdale section of the Bronx, and nine grandchildren.
      
Yelena Bonner said she hoped her son, Alexei, and her daughter, Tatyana, would be granted visas to attend the funeral, which she said would probably be held Tuesday.
      

       Elizabeth Martin Sanford, mother of Senator Terry Sanford of North Carolina, died Saturday after a heart attack she suffered in a holiday visit to her son's home.
Elizabeth Martin Sanford, mother of Senator Terry Sanford of North Carolina, died Saturday after a heart attack she suffered in a holiday visit to her son's home.
Her son, Joseph, is a photographer in Paris, and her daughter, Monika, lives in New York City.
Mrs. Johns is survived by a son, Robert, of Manhattan.
      
Surviving are 3 daughters, Mary Jo Ward of Short Hills, N.J., Anne Cloney of Dennis, Mass., and Judith Moser of Glen Ridge, N.J.; a son, Carl, of New Caanan, Conn.; 13 grandchildren, and 5 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Meiman is survived by a son from a previous marriage, Leo Kitrossky, a scientist in Moscow with three children.
She is survived by a daughter, Bernice L. Rudnick of Manhattan, who is vice chairman of the Einstein College board of overseers; a son, Maurice, of Manhattan, four grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, survivors include four sons and a foster son.
      
''
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Youngman is survived by a daughter, Marilyn; a son, Gary, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; a son from a previous marriage, P. Richard Cassiday Jr., of Manhattan; her mother, Laura Sheldon of Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Mrs. Herbert Bruckner of Hinsdale, Ill.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Power is survived by a son, Nathan E., at home; her mother, Katharine R. Goddard, of Ann Arbor; a sister, Margery G. Whiteman, of Albany, and two brothers, Russel H. Goddard, of New Haven, and Wendell H. Goddard, of Berkeley, Calif.
She is survived by a son, Johannes, of Stowe; two daughters, Eleonore Campbell of Waitsfield, Vt., and Rosmarie Trapp of Pittsburgh; two stepsons, Rupert, of Stowe, and Werner, of Waitsfield; three stepdaughters, Agathe von Trapp of Glyndon, Md., Maria F. Trapp of Papua, New Guinea, and Johanna von Trapp of San Diego, and by 29 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Johannes, of Stowe; two daughters, Eleonore Campbell of Waitsfield, Vt., and Rosmarie Trapp of Pittsburgh; two stepsons, Rupert, of Stowe, and Werner, of Waitsfield; three stepdaughters, Agathe von Trapp of Glyndon, Md., Maria F. Trapp of Papua, New Guinea, and Johanna von Trapp of San Diego, and 29 grandchildren.
Mrs. Stark is survived by her son, Morgan Babcock Stark of Manhattan and North Haven and three grandchildren.
Miss Greenwood's son, Jason Morrell, said his mother was found dead Saturday by friends she had invited to dinner.
Her son said yesterday: ''She enjoyed doing all the recent TV work.
She is survived by her son.
She was born in Westerville, Ohio, and was a graduate of the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
        She is survived by two daughters, Jule Bogle of Dayton, Ohio, and Sylvia Stehley of Norwalk, Conn.; a son, Jay Birmingham, of Jacksonville, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Green, a native of South Dakota, went to Willamette University in Salem, Ore., in the late 1920's and, after graduating, started teaching elementary school in Salem, according to a son, James S. Green of Gresham, Ore. She became involved in politics after working with the Oregon Education Association.
Besides her son James, Mrs. Green's survivors include another son, Richard, of Annandale, Va.; two sisters, Ruth Costello of Berkeley Springs, W.Va., and Mildred Cleaveland of San Andreas, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
Besides her son James, Mrs. Green's survivors include another son, Richard, of Annandale, Va.; two sisters, Ruth Costello of Berkeley Springs, W.Va., and Mildred Cleaveland of San Andreas, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
''
        Miss Lindley is survived by a brother, Robert Strunsky of Kingston, N.J.; a son, Dr. Charles Lindley of Boston; a stepson, Denver Lindley of Erwinna, Pa., and a grandson.
; a son, George L. Johnston of Barrington, R.I.; a sister, Carolyn Russell of Needham, Mass.
Their son, John A. Rohlehr, a lawyer and commissioner of the State Liquor Authority, died in 1962.
''
        She is survived by her daughter, Paula Morris, and her son, Orville Williams.
She is survived by her husband, Wilbur; a daughter, Allyson, of Manhattan; a son, Louis, of Freeport, L.I.
Describing his eldest son, Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, she wrote about the heir to a political dynasty:
        ''Down the swaying train he went, putting out his hand in 19 of the other 20 cars saying, 'I'm Joe Kennedy,' while outside in the early afternoon sun, the old men of Linden, N.J., stood silently in their undershirts and the women held handkerchiefs to their faces.
Her son, Andrew, of Plainfield, Vt., and two grandchildren survive.
      
Her work is in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the National Museum of American Art and the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, N.Y.
        She is survived by her husband, Herman; a son, Mark; a daughter, Julie; a brother, Hans, and two grandchildren.
      
So did Miss Hayworth's open affair, in the late 1940's, when such behavior was far less commonplace than it is today, with Prince Aly Khan, the playboy son of the spiritual leader of millions of Ismaili Moslems.
They had a son, Andrew.
She is survived by her husband, David Hawks, and their son, Wayne Palmer, both of Manhattan; her parents, Thelma and Joseph Simpson of Grenada, and four sisters, Margaret Prime of Brooklyn, Jennifer Simpson of Manhattan, Thorla Renwick of Dallas and Vernessa Hamer of London.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jeremy Warburg Russo of Chicago; a son, Jonathan, of Boston; two stepchildren, Geraldine Zetzel of Cambridge, Mass., and Felix M. Warburg 2d of San Francisco; a sister, Lady Bonham-Carter of London; 11 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
The problem-plagued television family also consisted of a son who became involved in organized crime and another son who was bisexual.
The problem-plagued television family also consisted of a son who became involved in organized crime and another son who was bisexual.
and City College; a daughter, Elaine W. Conway of Bronxville, N.Y.; a son, John, of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard; a son, Daniel, of Washington; a daughter, Susan Lindheim, of El Cerrito, Calif.; a stepbrother, Ralph Colp Jr. of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Ross, who was divorced, is survived by a son, Mark, of Ann Arbor, Mich; a daughter, Johanna Ross, Newton Centre, Mass.
She is survived by a son, John Monhoff of Calistoga.
      
Mrs. Cox is survived by her son, Dr. Denton Sayer Cox, of Manhattan; a daughter, Patricia Cox Mansfield, of Weston, Mass., and four grandchildren.
Mrs. Moe is survived by a son, Christian Hollis Moe of Carbondale, Ill., and two grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by a son, Craig Norville.
Surviving are a son, Robert, of Syosset, L.I.
She is survived by a son, Samuel M. Melkon Jr., of Paramus, N.J.; four stepchildren, Helen Barnes and Kathleen Mendes of West Palm Beach, Fla., Dr. Haik Kavookjian Jr. of Darien, Conn., and Sarkis Kavookjian of Rumson, N.J., and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, G. Arthur Andrews, of Ossining; a son, William E., of Northport, L.I.
Priest is survived by a son, Jamie Priest, and a daughter, Esther Blue, both of Manhattan; a sister, Hinda Neufeld of Ithaca, N.Y., and two brothers, Elias Cohen of Philadelphia and Sam Crane of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a son, Seth L. Schapiro of Manhattan, and a daughter, Cherry S. Krassner of New Rochelle; nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Bauersmith is survived by a daughter, Jennifer Warren, an actress living in Los Angeles; a son, Paul Warren, dean of the School of Education at Boston University, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, John Schloss Jr., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Cornelius.
      
She is survived by a son, John, of Newtown, Pa.; two daughters, Ann Rhoads of Lower Makefield and Jane Morse of Lawrence, Kan., and eight grandchildren.
      

       Dorothy Ryan, who was one of the victims of her son in the nation's worst mass murder, was buried today after a simple funeral attended by about 50 people.
Dorothy Ryan, who was one of the victims of her son in the nation's worst mass murder, was buried today after a simple funeral attended by about 50 people.
Mrs. Ryan, 60 years old, was buried in Calne, in southern England, about 20 miles from the town of Hungerford, where she lived with her 27-year-old son, Michael.
Surviving are a son, Donald Jr., of Naperville, Ill.; a daughter, Delia A. Mulvaney of Southboro, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Warburg is survived by a brother, Edward M. M. Warburg of Weston, Conn.; a son, Walter N. Jr., of Syosset, L.I.
Miss Lonergan is survived by her husband, Richard Bertram, and her son, John Holtzman, also of Stuart.
      
She is survived by her husband, D. Rex Edwards; two sisters, Marjorie Smith of Rosedale and Bernice Patterson of Jamaica, Queens; an adopted son, Ralph Barkley of Virginia Beach, Va.; an adopted daughter, Freda Muldoon of Newburyport, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Charlotte Van Winkle of Hamden, Conn.; a son, Van Burgess of Summit, N.J.; a daughter, Claire Phillips of Manhattan; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Edwin, of Ghent, a retired Supreme Court justice; a daughter, Elaine Johnson of Somers, N.Y., three grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Rothschild is survived by a brother, Edward M. M. Warburg of Wilton, Conn.; a son, Walter N. Jr., of Syosset, L.I.
After the diary scandal, Miss Astor was married to Manuel del Campo, a Mexican sportsman, by whom she had a son, Anthony, and later to Thomas G. Wheelock, a businessman.
Besides her daughter and son, the actress is survived by an undisclosed number of grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Jean-Christophe; her mother, Edmee Haviland, and two sisters.
      
She is survived by a son, Lawrence O., of Tuckerton, N.J.; two grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      
Surviving are her husband, Dr. Bogdon Raditsa, a former Yugoslav diplomat and journalist; a son, Dr. Leo, of Annapolis, Md.
Mrs. Marek is survived by her husband, Richard, who is president and publisher of E. P. Dutton, the book publishing company; a son, Alan; a daughter, Elizabeth; her parents, Maurice and Anita Ravage; a brother, Alan Ravage, and a sister, Susan Herron, all of Manhattan.
Clare Boothe met her future husband in church: George Tuttle Brokaw, millionaire-playboy son of a clothing manufacturer.
Miss Remsen's father, Dr. Charles Remsen, founded the town near Speonk in Suffolk County in the 1890's, when he decided to build a red brick Presbyterian church to commemorate a young son who had died.
Miss Remsen's father, Dr. Charles Remsen, founded the town near Speonk in Suffolk County in the 1890's, when he decided to build a red brick Presbyterian church to commemorate a young son who had died.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Gino; a daughter, Adriana Scalamandre Bitter; seven grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Weithorn is survived by her husband, Stanley S. Weithorn; a daughter, Lois A. Weithorn of Palo Alto, Calif.; a son, Michael J., of Los Angeles; her mother, Frieda A. Breslow of Fresh Meadows, Queens, and a sister, Elaine M. Brody of Philadelphia.
      
She is survived by her husband, John; a son, David, of San Francisco; a daughter, Virginia, of Cambridge, Mass.
She is survived by one daugther, Mrs. Reagan; one son, Richard Davis of Philadelphia, and seven grandchildren.
      
In the United States she appeared in ''The Case Against Mrs. Ames'' (1936), ''The General Died at Dawn'' (1936), ''Lloyd's of London'' (1936), ''On the Avenue'' (1937), ''The Prisoner of Zenda'' (1937), ''It's All Yours'' (1937), ''Blockade'' (1938), Cafe Society'' (1939), ''Honeymoon in Bali'' (1939), ''My Son, My Son,'' (1940), ''North West Mounted Police'' (1940) ''Virginia'' (1941), ''One Night in Lisbon,'' (1941), ''Bahama Passage'' (1942), and ''My Favorite Blonde'' (1942).
In the United States she appeared in ''The Case Against Mrs. Ames'' (1936), ''The General Died at Dawn'' (1936), ''Lloyd's of London'' (1936), ''On the Avenue'' (1937), ''The Prisoner of Zenda'' (1937), ''It's All Yours'' (1937), ''Blockade'' (1938), Cafe Society'' (1939), ''Honeymoon in Bali'' (1939), ''My Son, My Son,'' (1940), ''North West Mounted Police'' (1940) ''Virginia'' (1941), ''One Night in Lisbon,'' (1941), ''Bahama Passage'' (1942), and ''My Favorite Blonde'' (1942).
Mrs. Saladino is survived by her husband; a son, J. Graham, of Norfolk and Manhattan; her parents, Gladys and Wyatt Burl Hendrick, a brother, Robert, and a sister, Myra Grace, all of Lawton, and a sister, Elizabeth Maloney of Fairfax, Va.
        A funeral service is to be held tomorrow at 11 A.M. at St. Bartholomew's Church at 109 East 50th Street.
      
She is survived by a son, James A. Thomas Jr. of Becket, Mass.
She is survived by two daughters, Abigail Ives of White Plains and Coletta Bernadino of Westport, Conn.; a son, Thomas Cox of Stamford, Conn.; a brother, James J. Ruch Jr. of Princeton Junction, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Nathaniel, and a daughter, Caitlin, both of Manhattan; a brother, John Campbell of Chittenden, Vt., and her parents, Ford and Miriam Campbell of Martha's Vineyard, Mass.
      
