Besides her son Lance of Holmdel, N.J., she is survived by her daughter, Sondra Plotkin of Valley Stream, and her son, Dr. Ronald Primis of East Meadow, L.I.
Besides her son Lance of Holmdel, N.J., she is survived by her daughter, Sondra Plotkin of Valley Stream, and her son, Dr. Ronald Primis of East Meadow, L.I.
; a son, Robert C., of Woodbridge, Conn., and three grandchildren.
A son, Alfred (Chappy) Morris, said she had been in failing health for several years.
In addition to her son Alfred, of Manhattan, she is survived by another son, Dr. John Morris Jr. of Nashville.
      
In addition to her son Alfred, of Manhattan, she is survived by another son, Dr. John Morris Jr. of Nashville.
      
Besides her husband of 67 years, Mrs. Schieffelin was predeceased by a son, William Jay Schieffelin 3d, and a daughter, Anne Louise Bradley.
Her husband died in 1971; she is survived by their son, Charles, and  three grandsons.
Her last book, a biography of Scott's son, the naturalist Peter Scott, was written when she was 83.
She is survived by a son, the Marquis de Dampierre of Paris, and a grandson, Aymar de Dampierre.
      
When her daughter, Mary Jane, married Horace Taft, the son of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio, the wedding pictures were published in Life, -- ''a present from Luce,'' Mrs. Taft said.
She is survived by a daughter, Roma Torre of Manhattan, a news anchorwoman; a son, Adam Jeffrey Friedman of Los Angeles; a brother, John Torregrossa of Panama City, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
From the late 1930's through the early 50's, she worked mainly as her husband's assistant and brought up their four children, of which one son and two daughters survive.
Mrs. Bouteneff is survived by their son, Archpriest Sergei C. Bouteneff of Trumbull, Conn., rector of St. George Albanian Orthodox Church; a daughter, Dr. Marina Koulomzin of North Tarrytown, N.Y.; a sister, Vera C. Bouteneff; a brother, Dr. Eugene S. Troubetzkoy of Hastings-on Hudson, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by a son, John Thacher Hurd of Berkeley, Calif., himself a writer and illustrator of children's books; and a brother, Nicholas Thacher, of San Francisco.
      
A lively personality with a colorful turn of speech, Mrs. Scorsese found what amounted to a second career in her son's films, in which she improvised her dialogue.
''
        She went on to appear in ''Mean Streets,'' ''New York, New York,'' ''Goodfellas,'' ''Cape Fear,'' ''Casino'' and other films by her son, as well as ''Godfather III'' and ''Desperately Seeking Susan.
In addition to her son Martin, she is survived by another son, Frank, of Staten Island, five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
In addition to her son Martin, she is survived by another son, Frank, of Staten Island, five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
Mrs. Ganz is survived by a son, Tony, of Los Angeles; three daughters, Victoria DeFelice of Newport Beach, Calif., Kate Ganz Dorment of London and Nancy Wright of La Canada, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, Mrs. Niebuhr is survived by a son, Richard, of Stockbridge; a sister, Barbara Moravec of Sutton, England, and three grandsons.
Correction:  January 13, 1997, Monday
        An obituary in some editions yesterday about Ursula Niebuhr, the founder of Barnard College's religion department, misstated the given name of her surviving son.
Mrs. Davis had suffered from lung cancer for a year, said her son, David Payne.
In addition to her son, who lives in New Town, Conn., she is survived by a stepdaughter, Liberty Davis Rashad of Cambridge, Mass., and two granddaughters.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Vincent Yuan, of Albuquerque, N.M., who is a research scientist at Los Alamos National Laboratory.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Agie, of Bleiburg; a son, Mono, of Manhattan, and two brothers, Dieter, of Salzburg, Austria, and Herwig, of Rumson, N.J.
      
After the war, divorced and the mother of a son, Winston Spencer Churchill, she moved to Paris where, with her customary energy and resourcefulness, and with the cachet and connections of the Churchill name, she established a glittering place for herself in international high society.
Then Winston Churchill's only son, Randolph, well educated but spoiled and trailing a reputation for brilliance, arrogance, extravagance and drunkenness, took her to dinner and proposed on their first date, having already been turned down, according to the London gossips, by a number of other women.
He was his own worst enemy and very difficult to be his father's son and all that, but he had many, many admirable qualities.
''
        She had a fling with Prince Aly Khan, the playboy son of the Aga Kahn, and after the breakup of her marriage to Randolph Churchill she began her new life in Paris.
In addition to her son, Mrs. Harriman is survived by her sisters, Sheila Moore of Atlanta and Ireland, and Jaquetta James of the Isle of Mull, Scotland; her brother, Edward, Lord Digby, of Minterne Magna; four grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Jane Jackson of Oakland, Calif.; a son, Daniel Smith of Kentfield; four granddaughters, and two great-grandsons.
      
She is survived by her husband, Charles, of Manhattan; a son, Peter, of Telluride, Colo.; a daughter, Susan of Goleta, Calif.; three grandchildren; a brother, E. Morris Hayes, and a sister, Marian Hayes Miller of San Francisco.
But a chorus of chortles echoed through the park when a newspaper account of the dispute quoted Mrs. Gibson (who could not believe that the perfectly nice reporter she had chatted with would repeat her exact words) as describing one of the disputants as ''a son of a bitch.
She is survived by a son, Stephen R., of Adamant, Vt.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Norman Farris of East Falmouth, Mass., and a daughter, Abigail Gilman of Tillson, N.Y.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Dr. Christian Wertenbaker.
In addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, Mrs. Wertenbaker is survived by a daughter, Timberlake Wertenbaker, a playwright who lives in London, and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was kidney failure, said her son, Gregory L. Lambert.
There is a Lambert legend  widely repeated in legal circles, which her son could not confirm but said could well be true.
The cause was kidney failure, said her son, Gregory L. Lambert.
There is a Lambert legend widely repeated in legal circles, which her son could not confirm but said could well be true.
The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Andrew.
Mrs. Clark entered the field of market research as an interviewer, going door to door and asking opinions about commercial products, often accompanied by her infant son.
Besides her son, of Portland, Ore., and her daughter, Mrs. Clark is survived by four grandchildren.
The cause was breast cancer, said her son, Jonathan.
Besides her son, she is survived by a brother, Julian Sayer of Stamford, Conn.
      
She is survived by a son, Gil Bianchini, and her companion, Maria Desiderio.
      
She attended Smith College and then the University of Pennsylvania from 1922 to 1925, the year she married Edward A. Norman, the son of a founder of Sears Roebuck.
She is survived by a daughter, Nancy Lassalle of Manhattan, who is vice president of the School of American Ballet; a son, Andrew E. Norman of Palisades, N.Y.; seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
She attended Smith College and then the University of Pennsylvania from 1922 to 1925, the year she married Edward A. Norman, a son of a founder of Sears Roebuck.
Besides Mr. Koplowitz, she is survived by a son, William, and a daughter, Alexandra, both of New York City, and a sister, Lillian Katell of Carlsbad, Calif.
      
Later she and her son, Peter Jay Sharp, a developer and owner of the Carlyle, donated the Sharp Gallery in the Metropolitan's 20th-century wing.
Today, their son, John, and Mrs. Bell, as president and executive vice president, respectively, continue to manage the company, now Claster Television Inc.
Half a century after ''The Street,'' was first published by Houghton-Mifflin, Mrs. Petry's creations, Ludie Johnson and her 8-year-old son Bub, are still regarded as among the more indelible characters of black literature.
She is survived by her husband of 67 years, John Pierce Anderson, an artist; a son, Dr. Hans P. Anderson of LaCrosse, Wis.; a daughter, Johanna A. Ghei of Madison, Wis.; six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Indeed, Ms. Flannery, who also had a son, spent so much time ferrying her brood to and from one athletic field or another that a daughter described her yesterday as ''the original soccer mom.
Ms. Flannery is survived by her husband, Dennis; a son, Dennis, of Washington; four daughters, Erin of Santa Monica, Calif., Kelly of Collegeville, Pa., and Shannon and Megan, both of Washington, and a brother, David Sysko, of Wilmington.
      
The cause was cancer, her son, Robert S. Kravis, said.
In addition to her son, Ms. Kravis is survived by a daughter, Kimberly R. Kravis, and a sister, Sharon Beckerman, all of Manhattan.
      
She was there when the State of Israel was proclaimed, and her elder son, the late Paul Shulman, helped establish the Israeli Navy.
She is survived by a son, Mark, of San Miguel Allende, Mexico, and seven grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Gleason is survived by her husband of 57 years, Frederick B. Gleason Jr.; a brother, Thomas W. Dewart of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Frederick B. Gleason 3d of Savannah, Ga.; a daughter, Laura Gleason Edgar of Riverside, Conn.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
The cause was pneumonia, said her son Don Keefer Jr.
        Before the 1963 Anacin commercial in which she erupted irritably in the kitchen, Ms. McLeod had been best known for her starring role in ''I've Always Loved You'' (1946), a romantic drama directed by Frank Borzage.
Besides her husband and her son Don, of Studio City, she is survived by two other sons, John, of Santa Monica, and Tom, of Burbank, and a sister, Mary Jane O'Brien of West Covina.
      
She is survived by a son, Peter S. Heins of Thousand Oaks, Calif.; a daughter, Margery E. Heins of Shelburne Falls, Mass.
''
        Even after the league folded in the mid-1970's and Mr. Seltzer's son, Jerry, sold the name Roller Derby to other promoters, Miss Weston continued her devotion to her sport, training skaters and staging exhibition games at a Hayward track.
In addition to her husband she is survived by a son, Spencer Mason of Pforzheim, Germany; a daughter, Leslie Scarlett Mason of Manhattan, and one grandchild.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Peggy Piers, of Portland, Ore.; a son, Matthew, of Chicago, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Thomas O. Warner of Philadelphia, five grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      
Mrs. Carey is survived by her parents, residents of Bluebell, Pa.; her husband, Francis J. Carey, president of the Manhattan-based investment banking firm of W. P. Carey & Company; a son, H. Augustus of Ambler; two daughters, Emily N. Carey of Ambler and Frances C. MacMaster of Madison, N.J.; a stepson, Francis J. Carey 3d of Ambler; a stepdaughter, Dr. Elizabeth C. Boden of Little Silver, N.J.; a brother, Henry Large of Southboro, Mass., and 10 grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Gurwin is survived by their daughter, Laura Flug of Manhattan; a son, Eric, of Livingston, N.J.; her twin brother, Murray Brizell of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Dr. Greenberg is survived by her husband of 45 years, William; their daughters, Lisa Greenberg of Madison, N.J., and Ellen Greenberg of San Francisco; a son, Andrew, of Manhattan; two brothers, Walter Weintraub of Baltimore, and Robert Weintraub of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Many trace her undoing to a dispute four years ago with Suffolk's District Attorney, James Catterson Jr.
        She accused Mr. Catterson of threatening to investigate her agency unless she overturned the failing results of a psychological exam given to a son of a longtime associate of his.
The son, an investigator in Mr. Catterson's office, needed to pass for authorization to carry a gun.
Dr. Hedges is survived by her husband, Dr. William L. Hedges; a daughter, Marietta, and a son, James L., both of San Francisco; a sister, Dorothy Faye of Greenwich, Conn., and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband of 14 years, Morton Goldsen; a son, Terrell Foster, of San Francisco; three stepchildren; six stepgrandchildren, and a sister, Beverly Tate of Far Rockaway.
      
Mrs. Sumii is survived by her children, including a son who is a university professor and a daughter who is a journalist and author.
Survivors include a daughter, Nora Poling of Mountville, Pa.; a son, Alan Bramley of North Attleboro, Mass.
She is survived by her husband of seven years, Naguib S. Mankarious; a son, John W. Rogers Jr. of Chicago, and a granddaughter.
The cause was cancer, said her son Morgan Hare.
In addition to her son Morgan of Manhattan, she is survived by a son, Nick Delaney of Seattle; a daughter, Topher Delaney of San Francisco; two sisters, Eliane Koevas of Chester, Conn., and Jenny de Kergolay of Paris, and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Morgan of Manhattan, she is survived by a son, Nick Delaney of Seattle; a daughter, Topher Delaney of San Francisco; two sisters, Eliane Koevas of Chester, Conn., and Jenny de Kergolay of Paris, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Max Trell Jr. of Lehigh Acres, Fla.
      
Besides her husband, Dr. Fruchter is survived by a son, Lev, also of Brooklyn; a daughter, Chenda Fruchter of San Francisco; her mother, Gertrude Gillett of London, and three brothers, Simon, who lives  in Pakistan, and Matthew and Peter, both of London.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Talley is survived by a son, MacDonald W. Talley of Pacific Grove, Calif.; two daughters, Melanie Talley Whately and Marina Talley, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Raymond F. DeVoe Jr. of Sea Girt, N.J.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, Daniel H. Frank of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a daughter, Katherine L. Frank of Manhattan; two sisters, Delia H. Cantor and Harriet H. Simpson, and five grandchildren.
      
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her son Adriano Valentino.
In addition to her son Adriano, of East Hampton, she is survived by two other sons, Alexander Ratensky of Tampa, Fla., and Luca Valentino of New York City; a daughter, Dr. Antonia Meltzoff of La Jolla, Calif., and a grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband,  John C. McCabe, the movie biographer; two daughters, Rosina Mo of Bracciano, Italy, and Margaret Romairone of Manhattan; a son, Juvenal L., of Rockleigh, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
She met Norman Chandler, the son of Harry Chandler, publisher of The Los Angeles Times, at a dance at Stanford University, and they married in 1922.
During the years that Norman Chandler trained to be publisher and worked his way through the newspaper's executive echelons, Mrs. Chandler raised their daughter, Camilla, and son, Otis, and did volunteer work for the Children's Hospital of Los Angeles and other institutions.
''She was a critical figure in the modernization of Los Angeles,'' said David Halberstam, whose book, ''The Powers That Be,'' chronicled the newspaper's rise under Mrs. Chandler's husband and son.
Mrs. Chandler strongly supported her son's efforts to improve the quality of the newspaper and to raise it to the ranks of the nation's finest.
She is survived by her son; her daughter, Camilla Chandler Frost, eight grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
''
        Mrs. Oku is survived by a daughter, Kii Nakamura, who also served as a chairman of the Housewives' Association, and a son, Kyoichi Oku, both of Tokyo.
Judge Taylor is survived by her husband, William L., a civil rights lawyer; two daughters, Lauren Taylor of Silver Spring, Md., and Debbie Taylor of San Francisco; a son, David Van Taylor of Brooklyn; her mother, Alice Rosen, also of Brooklyn; a sister, Carole Lachman of Staten Island, and a granddaughter.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her son James E. Smith.
In addition to her son James, of Des Moines, she is survived by another son, Dr. Robert C., of East Lansing, Mich.; a daughter, Maggie of Jamestown, Calif.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son James, of Des Moines, she is survived by another son, Dr. Robert C., of East Lansing, Mich.; a daughter, Maggie of Jamestown, Calif.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her husband of 55 years; a son, Michael, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a daughter, Marjorie Helmling, and a sister, Margaret Moran, both of Detroit; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
''
        Mrs. Henson is survived by a son and a daughter as well as by several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      
Her son William was born in June, 1982, providing promised continuity to the crown and making her the mother of a king-to-be.
It became widely reported that her wish was that Charles renounce his right to the crown, passing it on to their son William, known to the British public as Wills.

        Margaret Sherman Peet, a former advertising executive, died Aug. 6 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y., after a fall, her son, Charles D. Peet Jr., said.
Survivors include her son, of Manhattan; a daughter, Margaret Peet Anderson of Hoboken, N.J., and five grandchildren.
Besides her daughter, of Old Westbury and Sagaponack, N.Y., Dr. Balakian is survived by a son, Haig Nalbantian of New York City, and a granddaughter.
      
The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, said her son Roy.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Westwood is survived by a son, Richard E. Westwood Jr., of Highland, Utah; a daughter, Beth Davies of American Fork; two brothers, John K. Miles of Provo, Utah, and David H. Miles of Orem, Utah; 15 grandchildren and 22 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Weinberger became involved in the rights of the disabled after doctors told her that her adopted son, Richard, 2, had muscular dystrophy.
She set up a foundation named after her son and was among the founders of Independent Living for the Handicapped, a Brooklyn-based advocacy group that helps the severely disabled to live in their own homes.
She is survived by a daughter, Sallie Tennant, of Bradenton; a son, Ricardo Dellera, of Hawaii; a sister, Josephine Staral, of Barrington, Ill., two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Their son, Haskel, succeeded his father in the rabbinate in Kehilath Jeshrun.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Nathalie Friedman; three sisters, Nathalie Herman and Hilda Fischman of Manhattan and Sylvia Lipton of Los Angeles; a brother, Charles Schlang of Scottsdale, Ariz.; eight grandchildren, and 28 great-grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Edward; a son, Renell Gonsalves of Detroit; a daughter, April Browne of Queens, and a sister, Marquita Gove of Los Angeles.
She is survived by her son, Robert Foster of Los Angeles, and by her daughter, Gretchen Foster Cotta.
      
She is survived by a son, John Stearns of Manhattan, and a brother, Richard Dunnigan of Sacramento, Calif.
      
She is survived by a son, Michael Andersen of San Francisco; a brother, Harold, of Orlando, Fla., and a sister, Dolores Clausen Brockmeyer of Sarasota, Fla.
      
In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a son, Jeffrey Jablow of the Bronx; a sister, Gloria Eisner of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      
The cause of death was complications from a stroke she suffered in January 1996, said a son, John Dickerson.
''
        In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Moonan is survived by her son, Denis Lyon Moonan of Camden, Me., and a grandson.
      
Ms. Miro is survived by a son, Gonzalo, and a brother, Carlos.
      
''
        She is survived by two daughters, Dr. Elizabeth Blalock of Laguna Beach, Calif., and Alice Ulm of New York, and a son, William Ulm of Santa Barbara, Calif.
      

        Hanna M. Bercovitch, the founding editor of the Library of America, died on Monday at her son's home in Madison, Wis. She was 63.
Ms. Bercovitch oversaw the publication of the first 90 volumes in the Library of America, including editions of Richard Wright's ''Native Son,'' Zora Neale Hurston's ''Dust Tracks on a Road'' and John Steinbeck's ''Grapes of Wrath.
For example, when Harper & Brothers published Richard Wright's 1940 novel ''Native Son,'' they made some changes to suit the Book-of-the-Month Club.
She is survived by her son, Eytan Bercovitch of Baltimore and Madison, and her brother, Leonard Malmquist of Laguna Beach, Calif.
      
Her son, Menachem, said Monday that the cause was liver failure  resulting from malaria and hepatitis she had contracted at Auschwitz.
After she completed her second term in 1994, President Clinton appointed her son to the council.
Hadassah Bimko Rosensaft studied medicine at the University of Nancy in France, received her doctorate as a dental surgeon there in 1935 and practiced dentistry in her native city of Sosnowiec in southern Poland from then until August 1943, when she was sent to the Auschwitz concentration camp along with her parents; her first husband, Josef Preserowicz, and their 5 1/2-year-old son, Benjamin.
All but she soon died in the gas chambers there, but, as her son recalled, ''because of her medical training, she was assigned to work in what was called the Jewish infirmary at Auschwitz, and in that capacity she saved hundreds of Jewish women'' from the gas chambers.
She cared for 150 Jewish orphans there, her son recalled, before the camp was liberated in April 1945 by the British.
Besides her son, Menachem, of Manhattan, Dr. Rosensaft is survived by a granddaughter, Jodi.
She is survived by a daughter, Titia Dick Ellis of Santa Fe, N.M.; a son, Edison W., of Washington; a sister, Marion Hodgkins of Lake Forest, Ill.; 9 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Oskar L. Eichna Jr., of East Northport, N.Y.
      
As recounted in ''Backstairs,'' Mrs. Roosevelt, who had long chafed at living under the thumb of her imperious mother-in-law at Hyde Park, was not cowed when the senior Mrs. Roosevelt arrived at the White House in 1933 to help get her son settled and to take charge of the household.
As her 67-year-old son, Charles Jr. recalled yesterday with a decades old wail, ''I had to eat peanut butter instead of candy.
''
        In addition to her son, of Normandy Beach, N.J., she is survived by another son, David, of Berkeley, Calif.; a sister, Marjorie Whitmore, of Pontiac, Ill.; a brother, Sheldon Nichols, of Spring Hill, Fla.; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her son, of Normandy Beach, N.J., she is survived by another son, David, of Berkeley, Calif.; a sister, Marjorie Whitmore, of Pontiac, Ill.; a brother, Sheldon Nichols, of Spring Hill, Fla.; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She never regained consciousness after falling on Nov. 8, said her son Jason Binn of South Beach, Fla.
        Dr. Binstock, who was also known as Penny Binn, was born in Riverdale, the Bronx.
In addition to her husband and her son Jason, Dr. Binstock is survived by two sons, Jeffrey Binn of Manhattan and Jonathan Binn of Washington, and her mother, Hattie Schwartz of Miami.
      
Mrs. Griswold is survived by three daughters, Sarah Leahy of Chestnut Hill, Mass., Mary Flender of Cambridge, Mass., and Susanna G. Kaleck of Hamden, Conn.; a son, A. Whitney Jr., of West Tisbury, Mass.,  nine grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Daniel, of Manhattan; a daughter, Judith Goode of Boulder, Colo., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Martha M. Pappas of Rowayton, Conn., and Kate M. Upson of New Canaan, Conn.; a son, Thomas J. McMahon of Bridgeport, Conn., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Dr. Miller is survived by a son, Joel, of Los Angeles; two daughters, Hannah Lieberman of Phoenix and Rebecca Miller-Randall of Chester, Conn.; four sisters, Elsie Hurst and Edith Sahl of Newton, Mass., Ginger Lanahan of Raynham, Mass., and Dorothy Bearman of London, and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hooker's son, Gilbert S. Kahn, said that his mother's total contribution to the Smithsonian, in cash and jewels, was about $9 million.
''You finish it and enjoy it,'' she told her son Gilbert.
She and her son, however, gave a suite of Louis XV-style furniture to The Elms, one of Newport's famed ''cottages,'' built in 1901 and modeled after the Chateau d' Asineres near Paris.
Her son Gilbert said that the two met at business meetings and that the friendship evolved into a love match.
Besides her daughter, Mrs. Kelly is survived by a son, William E. 2d, of Spring Lake, N.J.; a sister, Katherine Duryea of Amityville, N.Y.; eight grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. William E. Mitchell, a retired professor of anthropology at the University of Vermont; a daughter and son by her first marriage, Linda Hoffman Matisse of Groton, Mass., and Jon Winer of Owings Mills, Md.
She is survived by her son, Richard L., of Mamaroneck, N.Y., dean of Pace Law School and a former United States Representative; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      

        Sally Marr, the mother of the comedian Lenny Bruce and a primary influence on her son's career, died Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles.
Although Ms. Marr was mainly known for encouraging her son as a performer, she was herself a professional comic and talent spotter.
After her husband left her, she brought up their son, Leonard, on her own, supporting the two of them by working as a waitress and maid.
Her son started his career by imitating his mother's act, then, urged on by her, he began creating his own routines, drawing freely from his life with his mother.
In 1987, the couple's daughter, Halley Cyd Marie Allison, was born, and in 1989 they had a son, Luke Edward Allison.
''She won the strike,'' her son Iver said over the weekend, ''after she told the women to picket the boss but to dress nicely, because the police in Boston used to back their horses into pickets, 'but if you are properly dressed, the police won't do it.
' ''
        Mrs. Peterson was born in 1906 in Provo, Utah, to two immigrants from Denmark, Lars Eggertsen, the local superintendent of schools, and his wife, Annie, who, according to her son, ''kept boarders because they didn't pay superintendents much in those days.
A Bryn Mawr College official described the school as a place ''not only to teach but to learn from the women workers the problems that together they and we must solve,'' but her son said that Mrs. Peterson's description was more succinct: a place that combined Shakespeare, drama and socialism.
Besides her son Iver, of Lawrenceville, N.J., who is a reporter for The New York Times, Mrs. Peterson is survived by two other sons, Eric N.,  of Alexandria, Va., and Lars E., of Washington; a daughter, Karen K. Wilken of Fort Collins, Colo., and 12 grandchildren.
      
They had one son, Nikolai, who lives in Seattle.
She is survived by a son, Tom Charlesworth of Portland, Ore., and two sisters, Evelyn Lewis of Hawaii and Veronica McKinley of New Castle, Pa.
      
She is survived by a son, Jon, of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      
During the nearly 30 years that her husband, Francois (Papa Doc) Duvalier, and son, Jean-Claude (Baby Doc) Duvalier, dominated the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere through a combination of brutality, intimidation and guile, Simone Duvalier was often regarded as a power behind the throne.
''
        Mrs. Duvalier's influence probably reached its peak after the death of her husband in 1971, when her son, still a teen-ager, succeeded his father as Haiti's ''President for Life.
''
        During her son's years in power, Simone Duvalier's taste for luxury, exceeded only by that of Michele Bennett, grew even more pronounced, and corruption markedly increased.
But when her son was ousted from power in February 1986, Mrs. Duvalier joined him and his wife in exile, first in the French Alps and then in Paris.
In recent years, after Jean-Claude's bitter divorce from Michele, Mrs. Duvalier was again said to be with her son in France, amid widespread reports they were living in a state of virtual poverty.
She is survived by her husband; her son, Daniel, of Silver Spring, Md.
Winthrop Paul Rockefeller, her survivors include a son and daughter from another marriage, Bruce Bartley of Little Rock, and Anne Bartley McNeil of San Francisco.
      
