Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Rick; a daughter, Vicki; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Nakamura is survived by her companion, Robert E. Lee of Jackson Heights; a son, Masakatsu Ota of Niigata, Japan; and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son James and three grandchildren.
      
He dreamed of having a son he could call John Jr.; instead, he named his daughter Johnnie.
In 1940, Koen married her coach, Jan Blankers, 12 years her senior, and by the time the 1948 London Olympics arrived, they were raising a son, Jan, and a daughter, Fanny.
When she was 64, her son said in The Times: ''I remember when I was growing up, there were always so many people greeting my mother on the street that I was embarrassed.
The cause was pneumonia related to acute myelogenous leukemia, said her son, Daniel Kirk-Davidoff.
)
        In addition to Ms. Michaels, who lives in Manhattan, Ms. Oysher is survived by her son, Michael Sternberg, also of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Fisher is survived by a son, William Crovello of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Schechter is survived by her son, Zachary.
''
        The label's third hit, ''Last Night,'' was an instrumental by the Mar-Keys, a group including Ms. Axton's son, Charles (nicknamed Packy) Axton, on saxophone.
Her son Charles became the head of Fretone Records, and in 1974 Ms. Axton took over.
She is survived by her husband; a son, Daniel; a daughter, Emily; her mother, Linda Hall of Jefferson, N.Y.; and a sister, Debra Hall of New York City.
      
In addition to her daughter Elisabeth, who lives in Boston, Ms. Kornblee is survived by her husband, Dr. Leonard V. Kornblee of Weston; another daughter, Mary K. Gabriel, also of Boston; a son, John C. Kornblee of Rocky Hill, Conn.; and three grandchildren.
      
She was devastated by the deaths of her husband, in 1960, and of their son, Burgo, named for a Trollope character, three years later.
The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Robert.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband Joseph F. Cullman III of Manhattan, the chairman emeritus of the Philip Morris Companies in New York; a son, Barney Straus Jr., of Evanston, Ill.; a brother, Leon Paley of Far Rockaway; and a grandson.
      

        Mary B. Goodhue, a longtime New York State senator who lost her seat in 1992 in a rare Republican primary to a little-known assemblyman by the name of George E. Pataki, died on Wednesday at Northern Westchester Hospital, her son, Francis A. Goodhue III, said.
She is survived by her son, of Bedford, and three grandchildren.
The cause was complications of uterine cancer, said her son, Dr. Jerid M. Fisher.
In addition to her daughter and son, who lives in Pittsford, N.Y., she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
She was 82 and had recently been told that she had cancer, her son Donald said.
''Her goal was to come to New York and be surrounded by people, and play the piano,'' her son said.
''
        In addition to her son Donald, of Scarsdale, N.Y., she is survived by her daughter, Nina Coe of Montevallo, Ala.; two other sons, Charles Jr., of Manhattan, and David, of Los Angeles; and eight grandchildren.
      
The cause was kidney failure, her son Gordon M. Beck said.
In addition to her, Mrs. Lindsay is survived by two other daughters, Margaret Picotte of Florida and Anne Lindsay of Massachusetts; her son, John Jr. of Connecticut; and five grandchildren.
His two daughters, Ms. Loomis, of New York, and Alley Mills Dean, of Los Angeles, and son, Tony Mills, of Oakland, survive her.

        Frances B. Schreuder, a Manhattan socialite convicted in 1983 of persuading her teenage son to kill her wealthy father in Utah because of what she considered his stinginess, died on Tuesday at a hospice in San Diego.
He was the son of William and Lillian Lauter, who had come to the United States from the part of Austria known as Galicia.
Leonard Lauder, who became president of the company in the 1970's, recalled that ''we had a Boston wholesaler, the Samuel Bernstein Hair Company, and Mr. Bernstein used to talk to me about his son Lenny.
She is survived by a daughter, Sharon Lehrer of San Rafael, Calif.; a son, Balfour, of Missoula, Mont.
''
        She is survived by Aleksandr Daniel, a son from her first marriage, who is a historian at the Memorial human rights organization.
      
After a divorce, she moved to New York City, and supported herself and her young son by working as a textile designer.
Ms. Riese is survived by a son, Roland Villars of Richmond, Va; a sister, Renée Hubert of Long Beach, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      
Mr. Gailey remembers one McGrory party in 1982, a christening for his son, that featured Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. singing, ''If you're Irish, come into the parlor,'' while a Reagan White House aide, Michael K. Deaver, accompanied him on the piano.
Miss Miller is survived by a son, Frank Askin of Manhattan.
She is survived by two daughters, Nancy Berman of Los Angeles and Nina B. Schafer of Unionville, Pa.; a son, Steven M. of Mill Valley, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      
She died after a bout of pneumonia, said her son, Glenn Capers.
''
        Besides her son, of Los Angeles, she is survived by a brother, James H. Capers, of New York.
      
Even when she was famous, her son, Bongani, now 20, was asked to leave his grammar school when she could not pay tuition.
Her marriage to him was dissolved, but their son, Jonathan Shaw, survives, according to The Associated Press.
According to the daily newspaper Haaretz, she is survived by her second husband, Mordechai Horowitz; their son, Daniel; a daughter, Lali, from her first marriage; four grandchildren; a brother; and a sister.
      
Ms. Payson is survived by a son, William Blair Meyer Jr. of Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla.; two daughters, Joan Curci Meyer of London and Porto Ercole, Italy, and Averil Payson Meyer of New York City and Katonah, N.Y.; two sisters, Payne Whitney Middleton of Manhattan, and Lorinda Payson deRoulet of Manhasset; a brother, John Whitney Payson of Jupiter Island, Fla.; and eight grandchildren.
      

        Jane Hoffman, a versatile actress on and off Broadway, died on Monday at a hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif., her son, Sam McMurray, said.
Besides her son, of Los Angeles, her survivors include two granddaughters.
      

        Phoebe Brand Carnovsky, an actress and distinguished acting teacher who was a founding member of the influential Group Theater, died on July 3 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, her son, Stephen Carnovsky, said.
In addition to her son, Stephen, of Los Angeles, she is survived by a niece, Katy Brand Dilkes of Cortland, N.Y., whom she raised.
'' In 1975, Mr. Lear moved the Jeffersons, by now the owners of a successful dry-cleaning franchise, and their son, Lionel, to a ''deluxe apartment in the sky'' on the East Side of Manhattan.

        Lilian Moore, a writer of books for children, a poet and an editor who helped make children's books more affordable and worked to combat racial stereotypes in children's literature, died July 20 at her home in Seattle, said her son, Jonathan.
She is survived by a son from her second marriage, Jonathan Moore of Seattle, and a brother, Milton Levenson of Manhattan.
She died after losing consciousness last week, according to her son, Kenneth.
After the second fire, she moved to Scottsdale to be near her son, Kenneth, a freelance photographer.
Keeping Copley Press in family hands was a priority for Mrs. Copley, and she turned it over to her son, David C. Copley, when she retired.
In addition to her son, David, of La Jolla, Mrs. Copley's survivors include a sister, Mary Frances Davison of Santa Maria, Calif.; a brother, Frank E. Kinney of Cedar Rapids; and two stepchildren from her husband's first marriage, Michael Copley of San Diego and Janice Obre of New York.
      
Miss Wray is survived by her daughters Susan Riskin of Manhattan and Victoria Riskin of Los Angeles; her son, Robert Riskin Jr., of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
Mrs. Alsop is survived by her daughter, who lives in Salt Lake City; her son, Bill Patten, of Worcester, Mass.
Ms. Lane is survived by a son, Alan Michael Lane.
      
Her survivors include a son, Denis, from her marriage to Mr. Westhoff.
She had a short-lived gallery, Black and Herron, in SoHo in 1995, and with Mr. Walczak started Eyewash in Williamsburg in 1997..
        Ms. Herron is survived by a son, Erik, of New York City; by her parents, Robert and Sophie Herron, of Augusta, Ga.; by a sister, Theresa, of New York City; and by four brothers: Anthony and Vincent, both of Augusta; Robert, of Fairfield, Iowa; and Jimmy, of Oakland, Calif.
      
Mrs. Stone's death, exactly two years after her husband's, was announced by their son, Norman.
In addition to her son, a psychologist who serves as the foundation's president, Mrs. Stone is survived by 12 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
An older son, Clement, died in 1986.
      

        Margaret Kelly, a proper Irishwoman better known as Miss Bluebell who founded the Bluebell Girls, the long-stemmed, high-kicking, slightly clad troupe considered the most glamorous chorus line in Paris and perhaps the world, died in her sleep on Sept. 11 at her home in Paris, her son Patrick Leibovici said.
She was released, her son said, only when the Irish ambassador intervened, ''much to the delight of the German jailers, because she had by then organized the whole barracks to an English way of life, with teatime and everything.
Another son, Jean-Paul, died in 1996.
The cause was complications of breast cancer, said her son Charles S. Whitman III.
Besides her son Charles, her survivors include another son, John R., husband of the former governor; a daughter, Janet; and three grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Charles, her survivors include another son, John R., husband of the former governor; a daughter, Janet; and three grandchildren.
      
Ms. Rubens won Britain's prestigious Booker Prize for fiction in 1970 for ''The Elected Member,'' the story of a Jewish family whose secrets drive one son insane.
Her death was reported by her son Andrew Dintenfass.
Her business is now run by her son Andrew.
The cause was complications of a recent stroke, said her son Christopher Cohen.
Parks is survived by her son Gerald Cohen and a stepdaughter, Barbara Cohen Hoffman.
      
Besides her husband, her survivors include a son, David Lerner of New York, from an earlier marriage to Mortimer Lerner, and three stepchildren, Kate Paradise of Boston, Elizabeth Hilton of Chicago and John F. Goldsmith Jr. of Plainfield, Ill..
      
She is survived by two children from her first marriage, her daughter, of Washington, and a son, Andrew Burnstine, of Plantation, Fla.
        Martha Inc. thrived in the 1980's, with sales of more than $40 million in 1987, The Times reported.
Besides her husband, Ms. Chang is survived by her parents, Shau-Jin and Ying-Ying, and a brother, Michael, all of San Jose; and by a son, Christopher.
Ms. Schlein is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth S. Weiss of Union City, N.J.; a son, John M. Weiss of Brooklyn; a brother, Dr. Paul Schlein of Bethesda, Md.
The cause was complications of acute myelogenous leukemia, her son, David Rieff, said.
In 1952 she and Dr. Rieff became the parents of a son, David Rieff, who survives her.

        Sylvia Herscher, whose 50-year career in theater included stints as an agent, a general manager and a producer, died on Wednesday at her home in New York, her son David said.
Ms. Lloyd is survived by a son, Nicholas, and grandchildren.
      
Ms. Chaney, who had Alzheimer's disease, died in her sleep, said her son James.
In addition to her son James, of Manhattan, Ms. Chaney is survived by a daughter, Katharine, of Manhattan; another son, Joseph, of Los Angeles; two stepchildren, Peter, of St. Augustine, Fla., and Ann Waswo, of Oxford, England; seven grandchildren; and eight great-granddaughters.
      
In addition to her son James, of Manhattan, Ms. Chaney is survived by a daughter, Katharine, of Manhattan; another son, Joseph, of Los Angeles; two stepchildren, Peter, of St. Augustine, Fla., and Ann Waswo, of Oxford, England; seven grandchildren; and eight great-granddaughters.
      

        Bernarda Bryson Shahn, the widow of the painter Ben Shahn, who won her own recognition as an artist late in life, died on Sunday at her home in Roosevelt, N.J., her son, Jonathan Shahn, said.
In addition to her son, a sculptor, who lives in Roosevelt, Ms. Shahn is survived by a daughter, Abby Shahn, a painter, of Solon, Me.
