''
        She is survived by three daughters, Terri O'Brien, Liz Watkins and Gale Evans; a son, John Feggo; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
After the war, Maria José became queen on May 9, 1946, when Vittorio Emanuele abdicated in favor of his son, hoping that the gesture would keep the monarchy alive.
It is still in force, despite lobbying and legal challenges by Maria José's oldest son, Vittorio Emanuele, and her grandson, Emanuele Filiberto, the current heir to the throne.
She raised their son Jim, paying for his secondary school education at Winchester by pawning jewelry and working in a munitions factory, as a house matron at Eton and on the inquiries desk at British Vogue.
At a time when breast-feeding was out of favor, she did it with her daughters and a son, Evan.
In addition to her husband and her son (also a writer), both of Manhattan; Mrs. Hathaway, of Newton, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Frank Steindler; a daughter, Catherine Steindler; a son, Frederick Steindler; and two sisters, Elizabeth Baker and Anne Baker, all of New York.
      
Disguised in male attire as the teacher's son, Ms. Arova was smuggled into England on a fishing boat in 1940.

        Rosalie Gwathmey, a photographer who was noted for the warmth and artful simplicity of her pictures of black Southern communities, and who threw away all her negatives in 1955 after donating most of her prints to the New York Public Library, died on Monday at her home in Amagansett, N.Y., said her son, the architect Charles Gwathmey.
After their son, Charles, was born in 1938 and they were living in Pittsburgh, Mrs. Gwathmey took up photography.
Mrs. Gwathmey, whose husband died in 1988, is survived by her son and two grandchildren.
In 1995, she moved to Los Angeles, where her son Robert and her daughter, Arlene March, live.
''
        Other survivors are another son, Herbert, of Rye Brook, N.Y., eight grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
Ms. Letheren is survived by her husband, Michael, and a son, Dan.
The cause was heart disease, said her son, Adrian.
In addition to her son, of Chicago, Dr. Vermeule is survived by her husband, the archaeologist Cornelius Clarkson Vermeule III of Cambridge, and a daughter, Blakey Vermeule of Chicago.
      
''
        But that second experience came four years later, on the evening of March 1, 1932, in Hopewell, N.J., where the Lindberghs were at home with their 20-month-old son, Charles Jr., and a nurse, Betty Gow.
At first Miss Gow  thought Lindbergh had taken his son from the crib for a joke, Mrs. Lindbergh continued, adding poignantly, ''I did, until I saw his face.
After the trial, the Lindberghs tried to go on living in the United States, but there were threats on the life of their second child, a son named Jon, who was born on Aug. 16, 1932, and other harassments, largely from cranks and aggressive reporters.
Reeve Lindbergh had a baby son who died in 1985 at almost exactly the same age as Anne Morrow Lindbergh's firstborn.
Reeve's baby was known as Jonny, and she wrote in her book: ''Jonny too died in the night, and I, like my mother before me, was apart from my son during his last moments.
I never sat with my son this way.
They divorced in 1945, and the following year, Rogers's wife died after giving birth to a son, Roy Rogers Jr.
        Miss Evans and Rogers made eight films together in 1946, including ''My Pal Trigger.
Rogers had been a widower with three children, an adopted daughter named Cheryl, a son, Roy  Jr., and another daughter, Linda Lou, and Miss Evans had a son, Thomas Frederick Fox Jr., from an earlier marriage that she had entered into when she was 14.
Rogers had been a widower with three children, an adopted daughter named Cheryl, a son, Roy  Jr., and another daughter, Linda Lou, and Miss Evans had a son, Thomas Frederick Fox Jr., from an earlier marriage that she had entered into when she was 14.
More recently she was active as a supporter of the Mount Sinai Hospital and Mount Sinai School of Medicine, where she and her husband established a scholarship fund in memory of their son Robert H. Kaufman.
Mrs. Kaufman is survived by another son, James M., of Manhattan; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Robert died in 1977, and a third son, Richard K., died in 1991.
      
She is survived by a daughter, the actress and singer Melissa Converse, and a son, Don Porter Jr., both of Los Angeles; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      

        Helen Smith Bevington, a poet, essayist, English professor and tireless tourist who roamed the world in search of her own Shangri-La, died on Friday at the home of her son, David, in Chicago.
In addition to her son, she is survived by five grandchildren.
She sang in the New York City Labor Chorus; her business cards bore the logo of the union shop that printed them, as did her son's bar mitzvah invitations.
A toddlers' playground in Central Park was endowed in memory of her son, James Michael Levin.
Her survivors include a daughter, Catherine Levin, and a son, Adam Levin, both of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
In 1940, the baby she had with Mr. Merrill died in his crib, and the couple moved to Florida to raise their second son in privacy.
Mr. Merrill and their second son, Richard, both died in 1982.
      
She is survived by a son, James A. Heller of Manhattan; a daughter, Susan K. Heller of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      
One book, ''Hamburgers -- and Ice Cream for Dessert'' (1975), about a boy searching for food on a desert island, was inspired by her son, Adam, who for a time as a child would eat for dinner only hamburgers, mashed potatoes and peas, and ice cream.
''I wanted to tell stories to little children, like my own son and his friends who were beginning to find their way in the everyday world of family, play, work, pets, familiar things that they experienced and understood,'' she recalled.
Finally, after their son was grown, the Clymers realized their dream of a country house.
Timothy Fales of Paris; a son,  Enrico Fales; a daughter, Susan Fales-Hill; and a sister, Adele Premice, all of New York.
      
After working for several years in the art world, she took a job at the gallery owned by Pierre Matisse, a son of the artist Henri Matisse and a leading international dealer in modern art.
He survives her, along with a son, Alexander of Oceanside, Calif.; a daughter, Katherine Irving Stark of South Salem, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was a brain tumor, said her son, Rory MacFarquhar.
''
        Surviving are her husband and son, both of Cambridge, and her daughter, Larissa, of Brooklyn.
      
Dr. Rives is survived by Dr. Difede and their son, Hal Difede Rives; her parents, Barbara and Hal Rives of Tucker, Ga.; a brother, Jack Rives of Roswell, Ga.; and a sister, Dr. Cathy Rives.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Krakauer is survived by a son, the clarinetist David Krakauer; a daughter, Lisa Schultz, of San Jose, Calif.; a brother, Dr. Theodore Lieberman of New York; and her mother, Jean H. Lieberman of Florida.
      
She worked with Ellington until his death in 1974, then into the mid-1980's with the band led by Mercer Ellington, his son.
''
        She is survived by a son, Raleigh Mohammed Hylton of the Bronx.
      
She is survived by a son, William, of New Jersey; and a daughter, Elizabeth Dudley, of Florida.
      
She left New York six years ago and went to live in a retirement home in San Francisco to be closer to her son.
She is survived by their son, Peter Gabel.
      
At Yehudi Menuhin's 50th-birthday concert at the Royal Festival Hall in London in 1966, he conducted a performance of the Mozart Concerto for Three Pianos in which the soloists were Hephzibah, Yaltah and Jeremy Menuhin, his son.
She also performed with Michael Mann, a violist and the son of Thomas Mann.
Ferry is survived by a son, John Bernstein of Guilford, Vt.; four stepchildren, Dennie LaTourelle of Carpenteria, Calif., Fay Bisno of Norwich, Vt., Robin Ferry of Salt Spring Island, British Columbia, and Lucien Ferry of Blue Sea Lake, Quebec; and a brother, Arthur Underwood of Denver.
      
) She shares it with her 28-year-old companion, Oliver Ray, a guitarist in her band, and her daughter, Jesse Paris, 14, and son, Jackson, 19, from her 1980 marriage to the former MC5 guitarist Fred (Sonic) Smith, who died in 1994.
Ms. Moyer is survived by her husband; a daughter, Ana Bess; a son, Niall; her parents, Dr. Reed Moyer and Sue Moyer of Palo Alto, Calif.; and two sisters, Dr. Patricia Moyer of Watertown, Mass., and Ellen Moyer of Oakland, Calif.
      
Ms. Mendoza is survived by a nephew she reared as a son, Guillermo Valero Mendoza, and his children.
She is survived by a daughter, Annie Gardiner of Oakland, Calif., and a son, Peter, of Middletown, Conn.
      
She left New York six years ago and went to live in a retirement home in San Francisco to be closer to her son.
She is survived by their son, Peter.
      
Over the last two years, her son Charles has overseen the gardens, which are still open to the public.
Their son died in 1985.
According her son Peter, she did not allow Mike Tyson into the rooftop restaurant because he refused to put on a tie.
In 1985, Mrs. Wirth turned over the administration of the Hassler, which remains one of the leading city hotels still owned and run by a single family, to her son Roberto.
She was flown to a hospital in Boise, where she underwent brain surgery but never recovered consciousness, her son Donald E. Graham said.
Besides her son Donald, she is survived by her daughter, Elizabeth Weymouth, known as Lally; her sons William and Stephen; a sister, Ruth Epstein of Bronxville, N.Y.; 10 grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
Mrs. Graham stepped down as chairwoman of the board in 1993, again to be succeeded by her son, but remained on the board as chairwoman of the executive committee.
At war's end in 1945, with the Soviet Army approaching Berlin, she flew north with her 2-year-old son and wound up with thousands of other refugees in a small town near the Danish border.
''In the early days,'' said her son, Richard L. Gelb, ''the way you got people to look with favor on hair color was through the beauty salons.
Instead, she split her time between a horse farm in Almenêches, in the Normandy region of France, and a home in Wellington, Fla., near Palm Beach, her son said.
In addition to Richard Gelb, chairman emeritus of Bristol-Myers Squibb, which acquired Clairol in 1959, and a former director of The New York Times Company, Mrs. Bove is survived by a second son, Bruce, a former Bristol-Myers executive, director of the United States Information Agency and American ambassador to Belgium; eight grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a brother, Jack Levin of Omaha; a daughter, Dail Neugarten of Denver; a son, Jerrold, of Hannacroix, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
      
Ms. Klein is survived by a son, William S. of Washington; a daughter, Emily McGrath of Manhattan; a brother, Les Honig of California; and three grandchildren.
''
        Ms. Jones is survived by a son, Anthony R. Jones of Manhattan, and seven siblings: Betty Bowman, Brenda Taylor and Renee Williams of Benton Harbor; David Robinson of Indianapolis; Dinah Robinson of Los Angeles; Kimberly Robinson of New York; and Patricia Robinson of Chicago.
      
She is survived by a son, Timothy Kebbe of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Nicola Harvey of London; a stepson, Jonathan Kebbe of Dublin; and six grandchildren.
      
Ms. Stanley married for the second time in 1949, to another actor, Curt Conway, with whom she had a son, Jamison, and a daughter, Lisa, and soon found herself torn between the conflicting demands of family and career.
Correction:  August 27, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the actress Kim Stanley on Tuesday misstated the surname of her son and misidentified his father.
The son changed his name to Jamison Clift from Conway in the 1980's.
The cause was complications of cancer, her son Alex Lasker said.
In addition to her son Alex, she is survived by two other sons, Lawrence and Steve; a twin brother, Don, and two grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, John Parkinson III, who was appointed a trustee of the museum in 1976 and is its treasurer; a daughter, the pianist Zaidee Parkinson; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, their daughter, Amanda, and son,  Nicholas, both of whom are actors.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Virginia, of Chicago, and Kimberly, of Yonkers; a son, William, of Mahopac; and her mother, Elizabeth Roos of Yonkers.
      
No information was available on the sixth son.
      
The cause was a heart attack followed by a stroke, her son Jonathan said.
''
        But prolonged physical therapy for a back injury and a penchant for spending, her son said, gradually ate up the money and her alimony.
Mrs. Schwartz is also survived by a daughter, Lorraine Commanday of Charlottesville, Va., and a son, Martin Russ Pulvers of Mountainview, Calif.
The family tradition continues at Russ & Daughters, with Mrs. Federman's son Mark, his wife, Maria, and their daughter, Niki, owning and operating the store.
      
She is survived by her son, Tom Hurwitz, of New York, and three grandchildren.
      
; a son, Daniel, of Melrose, Mass.
Dr. Calloway is survived by her husband of 20 years, Robert Nesheim of Seattle; a son, David, of Woodland Hills, Calif.; a daughter, Candace Calloway Whiting of Seattle; two stepdaughters, Sandra Rankin of Danbury, Conn., and Barbara Mowry of Denver; and nine grandchildren.
Miss McGuire is survived by her daughter and a son, Mark Swope.
Her son Kim said the reason earlier reports of her death listed her as 83 was that she had lopped five years off her age when she was 75 to increase her employment opportunities.
A teetotaler, Mrs. Crawford met him while she was volunteering to greet returning veterans at a bar; he was the one wearing a marine uniform while drinking a glass of milk, their son Kim said.
Mrs. Crawford is survived by Kim, who lives in Dana Point, Calif.; another son, Jay, of Rolling Hills Estates, Calif.; a daughter, Jan Crawford of Torrance, Calif.; nine grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
The elder Mr. Rankin was so taken with Miss Dalrymple that he promised to leave his son all his money, The Telegraph said.
Lady Jean is survived by her son Ian.
Another son, Alick, died of cancer in 1999.
''
        In addition to her husband, Ms. van der Vlis is survived by a son, Matthew, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Adrienne of New York.
      
The business opened with nine saleswomen and her 20-year-old son, Richard Rogers, a sales representative for Prudential Life Insurance, as financial administrator.
The business opened with nine saleswomen and her 20-year-old son, Richard Rogers, a sales representative for Prudential Life Insurance, as financial administrator.
In addition to her husband, Miss Newman is survived by a daughter, Sandy Newman, and a son, Dr. Neal Newman, both of Columbus, Ohio; a stepson, Bob Berkowitz, of Manhattan; a brother, Martin Rubenstein, of East Hampton, N.Y.; a sister, Ruth Hinkes, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
''
        Besides her daughter, who lives in Wakpala, she is survived by a son, Kevin Locke, also of Wakpala, a performing artist who works to preserve Lakota music; five grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, James, a resident of Luxembourg; a daughter, Nina Agel of Manhattan; four grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Wexner, with a professional background in the clothing business, joined her son, Leslie H. Wexner of Columbus, when he incorporated the Limited in 1963, as did her husband, Harry, and her daughter, Susan.
With her son, Mrs. Wexner in 1973 established the Wexner Foundation, which supports youth development programs, fellowships and Jewish agencies and temples.
In addition to her son and her daughter, of Manhattan, Mrs. Wexner is survived by four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Eric Fischman of Boston; two daughters, Sharon Fischman of Bethesda, Md., and Amanda Fischman Henshon of Boston; a stepson, Marc Kleber of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Elizabeth Kleber of Philadelphia and Pamela Shad of Greenwich, N.Y.; her mother, Sarah Weinbaum of Philadelphia; a brother, George Weinbaum of Philadelphia; four grandchildren; and four step-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Kenneth S., of Swarthmore, Pa.; six grandchildren; and 13 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a son and a daughter.
She is survived by her son, Alexander, and a grandson, Jordan Matter, both of New York.
      
