''
        In addition to her husband and her daughter, Ms. Williams is survived by her son, Will, and her sisters, Wistar Rawls of Monkton, Vt., Anne Williams of Ringoes, N.J., and Rosina Williams of Jersey City.
      
A cousin was married to a son of the industrialist Norton Simon, and through that association she became part of a well-connected extended family that included the actress Jennifer Jones, who was married to Simon, and Simon's sister, Marcia Weisman, a prominent art collector.
The cause was Lewy body disease, a form of dementia similar to Alzheimer's, her son Howard said.
In addition to her son Howard Ellis Jr. of Boston, she is survived by a daughter, Mazie Livingston Delafield Cox of Northampton, Mass.
; another son, Edward, who is married to Tricia Nixon, of Manhattan; a brother, Edward Ridley Finch Jr. of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Patcevitch is survived by a son, Charles Minot Amory III of Palm Beach, and three grandsons.
      
In addition to her daughter, Dr. Thelen is survived by her husband, David, a history professor at Indiana; a son, Jeremy, of Providence, R.I.; a sister, Harriet Saeck of Sacramento; and one grandson.
      
The cause was heart failure, her son, Mark Rabinowitz, said.
In addition to her son, Mark, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, Victor, a lawyer and activist; a daughter, Abby, of Hamburg, N.J.; a stepson, Peter, of Clinton, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Joni, of Pittsburgh; a half-sister, Mary Jane Hubbard of Norwich, N.Y.; a half-brother, James Hubbard of Orlando, Fla.; and two step-grandchildren.
      
Her death was reported by her son Michael Janeway, a writer and editor who is a professor at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism.
Despite her conventional-seeming role as a wife and mother, she was always staunch in her support of feminism, remaining friends with women like Betty Friedan, Gloria Steinem and Kate Millett, her son said.
Her son said that because the Depression wiped out her family's savings, she broke off her education to spend a year writing advertising copy for a department store, Abraham & Straus, and handling orders for the Book of the Month Club.
Their second son, William Hall Janeway, a financial executive, also survives her.
Ms. Dee is survived by her son, Dodd Darin, and two granddaughters.
Ms. Derickson was still working as a flight attendant for Delta Air Lines when she received a diagnosis of cancer in 2003, her son, Matthew Derickson, said in announcing her death.
Although various news organizations initially reported that she had followed their orders, she in fact hid the passports, her son said.
She is survived by her son, of San Diego, and her mother, Marianne Patzelt of Nuremberg, Germany.
      

        Mary Kim Joh, a composer and medical researcher, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan, said her son, Insoo Joh.
In addition to her son, Insoo, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Gwin Joh Chin, a magazine production editor at The New York Times, and a granddaughter, Andria Meredith, both of Manhattan, and a grandson, Eric, of Greensboro, N.C.
      
In a typical story, ''Star Man's Son, 2250 A.D.'' (Harcourt, 1952) -- her first science-fiction novel -- Fors, a mutant rejected by a postwar society because of his differences, goes in search of a lost city rumored to be free of radiation.
''Star Man's Son'' was the relatively late start of Ms. Norton's science fiction career; until then, she had mainly been a novelist writing juvenile historical fiction and adventure stories, under the pen name Andre Norton, chosen because her readers were thought to be exclusively boys
        At the time, the market for science-fiction was largely confined to magazines, but with the growth of the genre in book form after 1950, Ms. Norton took the field by storm.
Donald A. Wollheim, editor of the paperback house Ace Books, saw her potential in an adult market, acquired the rights to ''Starman's Son,'' published it under the title ''Daybreak -- 2250 A.D.,'' eliminating all references to the story and its author as being for young readers, and found himself with a steady seller.
She is survived by a son, Dr. David Lathrop, a physiologist at the National Institutes of Health, of Gaithersburg, Md.
The next year, she was nominated for best actress for her next role, opposite Gary Cooper as Lou Gehrig's wife in ''The Pride of the Yankees,'' and won the Oscar for best supporting actress as the love interest of Greer Garson's war-bound son in ''Mrs.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Clinton, Conn., Miss Wright is survived by her son, Niven Perence Busch of Indianapolis, and two grandchildren.
Another daughter, Rosalind Mary, died in infancy, and a son, Joshua, died in an accident as a teenager.
The cause was complications of esophageal cancer, her son, Samuel Crow, said.
The cause was heart failure, her son, Dr. Ulrich Lentz-Bartens, said.
Besides her son, whom she had with her first husband and who lives in Kiel, Germany, she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sister, Ms. McNulty is survived by a son, John Joseph McNulty of Brooklyn, and four grandchildren.
      
Ms. Burton is survived by her husband, Skip LaPlante; her son, Roan LaPlante; and her mother, Beatrice Soloway, all of New York City; and a half-brother, Richard Burton, of California.
      
Survivors include Maximilian; her son, Oliver, from her first marriage; and her daughter, Marie-Theres, from her second marriage.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jeffrey M. Duban; a daughter, Jean Petrek-Duban of Brooklyn; a son, Paul Petrek-Duban of Bronxville; her mother, Emily Petrek of Manhattan; three brothers, John Petrek of Bainbridge Island, Wash., Jim Petrek of Danville, Calif., and Jerry Petrek of Denver.
      
She was cited for her newscast illustrations of the sensational Son of Sam trial of David Berkowitz (1977-78), and again for the Murder at the Met trial (1980-81) of Craig S. Crimmins, the stagehand convicted of slaying a young violinist, Helen Hagnes Mintiks.
Ms. Popkin is survived by her mother, Juliet, of Los Angeles; her son, Joel, of Silver Spring, Md.
Ms. Brady is survived by her husband, the sculptor Bill Epton, and her son, Alexander Brady Epton, both of New York City.
      
Her death was announced by her son, Roger Wilkins, the Robinson professor of history and American culture at George Mason University.
Besides her son, who lives in Washington, she is survived by two daughters from her second marriage, Judith A. Claytor of Grand Rapids, and Sharon Claytor Peters of Lansing, Mich.; five grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      
Mrs. Talmadge died after a long illness, her son, Gene, said.
Besides her son, of Lovejoy, Mrs. Talmadge is survived by eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
Another son, Robert, died in 1975.
He survives her, as do a son, MacFarlane Hoffman of Swarthmore; a daughter, Kate H. Siddiqi of Philadelphia; and two sisters, Nancy Ranew of Milton, Fla.; and Janice Volz of New York City.
By the time ''The Graduate'' came along, she was more than ready to play the alpha female and she got her wish with the character of Mrs. Robinson, the bored predator whose sexual binges with young Benjamin Braddock, the son of her husband's law partner are mechanical but necessary props for her self-indulgent ego.
In 1964 she married Mr. Brooks, who survives her, as does their son, Maximilian.
In addition to her husband and her sister Eileen, of Stamford, Conn., Mrs. O'Brien is survived by her daughter, Kate, of Nantucket; her son, Miles, of Cockeysville, Md.
She is survived by a son and a daughter.
      
The cause was congestive heart failure, her son, Mike Burstyn, said.
'' The show, a musical version of the Book of Esther starring Ms. Lux, her husband and son, came to Broadway in a Yiddish-English production in 1968.
Besides her son, of Los Angeles (an actor on Broadway and in films, Mr. Burstyn changed the spelling of his name as an adult), Ms. Lux is survived by a daughter, Susan Roth of Westfield, N.J.; and a sister, Beatrice Friedman of Washington.
      
The cause was pneumonia, said her son, Jim Hawley.
Besides her son, of Oakland, Ms. Benedict is survived by a daughter, Ellen Hawley, of Minneapolis; two grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      
I'll never forget one day when my son Jamie and I were walking down the street and he asked, 'Mummy, do you mind if I walk on the other side of the street?
When World War II separated Ms. Fitzgerald from her husband, then back in England, she stayed in Los Angeles with their son, Michael Lindsay-Hogg, later to become an acclaimed film, television and Broadway director.
'' Among the directors she aced out of a nomination that year was her son, who staged ''Agnes of God'' a couple of blocks away.
Other fanciful plots include a woman who falls in love with a young man who turns out to be her illegitimate son in ''Emmeline'' (1980), and conjoined twins who marry two women in ''Attachments'' (1977), with the curiosity-inspiring sexual gymnastics hardly ignored.
She is survived by their son, Frederic L. Jr., of Bethesda, Md.
He survives her, as does their son, Joel III, who lives in Scarborough, N.Y.; three grandchildren; her brother Edmund Baker of Florida; and her sisters Edna Carnegie, Eunice Royster and Marian Green, all of New Haven.
The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Christopher Weathersbee.
Her son said it was not yet clear whether the book was in shape for publication.
In addition to her son, now living in Charlottesville, she is survived by a granddaughter, Beatrice Weathersbee, of Portsmouth, N.H.; a grandson, Nicolas Weathersbee, of St. Petersburg, Fla.; and four great-grandchildren.
In addition to Mr. Thompson, a retired manager of Internet services at The Times, Ms. Kerr is survived by their son, Andrew Kerr-Thompson; her mother, Hermine, of Wayne, N.J.; and a sister, Jacqueline Kerr Harrold, of Benton, Pa.
      
; a son, Peter; two daughters, Gillian and Lauren, all of Dover; and by a sister, Denni Day of Rochester.
      
Ms. Wilson is survived by her husband, a Republican political consultant; a daughter, Casey Rose Wilson, of New York City and Los Angeles; a son, Fletcher Todd Wilson, a student at the University of Pennsylvania; her father, Marion Higdon, of Pensacola, Fla.; and a brother, Bruce D. Higdon, also of Pensacola.
; a son, David, of Kinnelon, N.J.; and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Yard's son James Garrett confirmed her death.
Besides her son, of McDonald, Pa., Ms. Yard is survived by another son, John Garrett, of Fairport, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
Besides her son, of McDonald, Pa., Ms. Yard is survived by another son, John Garrett, of Fairport, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
The inn is now run by Rick Anderson, Ms. Leslie-Melville's son from her first marriage, to Lloyd Anderson, which ended in divorce.
In addition to her husband and son, Ms. Leslie-Melville is survived by her daughter, Dancy Bruce Mills of Glen Arm, Md., and five grandchildren.
Another son, McDonnell Marshall Bruce, died in 2004.
''
        Ms. Levi-Tanai is survived by a daughter, Michal, and a son, Yaacov, and several grandchildren and great grandchildren.
Ms. Jones is survived by her son, Michael A. Jones; her daughter, Monica Jones Shareef; three brothers; four sisters; and two grandchildren.
The cause was complications of a long-term heart ailment, her son, Joel Raphaelson, said.
''
        Mrs. Raphaelson is survived by her son, Joel, who lives in Chicago; her daughter, Naomi Yocum of Lancaster, Pa.; six grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
Her death was confirmed by her son, Dr. Jonathan Levy.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Jemima Levy.
Besides her daughter, of Newton, Mass., she is survived by a son, Michael Silberman, of Montclair, N.J.; a sister, Alberta N. Grossman of Manhattan and Westport; and four grandchildren.
      
Her son, Andrew, announced the death.
In addition to their son, of Princeton, N.J., Mrs. Littauer is survived by two grandsons.
Her death was announced by her son Arthur C. Hodges, who said two more of her books were to be published in the future.
''
        Besides her husband of 73 years, and her son Arthur, of Essex, Mass., Mrs. Hodges is survived by two more sons, Fletcher III, of Manhattan, and John A., of Washington; 9 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
