In addition to her husband, an astrophysicist at Harvard and at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Dr. Thaddeus is survived by a daughter, Eva Thaddeus of Albuquerque; a son, Michael Thaddeus of Manhattan; a sister, Alison Wilson of Palo Alto, Calif.; and a brother, Curtis Farrar of Washington.
      
The cause was cancer, her son Mark said.
She played her share of drinkers --  like the spinster teacher in ''Picnic'' in 1953 and the alcoholic mother whose son drowns in ''The Bad Seed'' in 1955, both on Broadway.
She is survived by her husband, Justin Arndt; a son, Christopher Arndt, of San Clemente, Calif.; and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a son, Frederic, of Manahattan; a brother, Daniel Horowitz, of Washington; and two nieces.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Stanley Earley Jr., a physician whom she wed after the war; a son,  Stanley III; a daughter, Judith Earley; two brothers, Senior Bishop John Adams of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, and E. Avery Adams; and a sister, Dr. Lucy Rose Adams.
Edith, the mother, also incurred the wrath of her father, Major Bouvier, by showing up at the wedding of her son dressed like an opera star, just as the ceremony ended.
She fled to Copenhagen, where she gave birth to a son, Lars, and later settled in Stockholm.
Rebecca has one son.
Her father was Carl M. Loeb, former president of the American Metal Company and co-founder with his son John Langeloth Loeb of Carl M. Loeb & Company, later to become known as the Wall Street firm of Loeb, Rhoades & Company.
She had Parkinson's disease, emphysema and liver cancer, her son, Jon Carson of Boston, said.
Mr. Adoff survives her, as do two sisters, Nina Anthony, of Columbus, Ohio, and Barbara Davis, of Los Angeles; two brothers, William Hamilton, of Englewood, N.J., and Kenneth James Hamilton Jr., of Chula Vista, Calif.; a daughter, Leigh Hamilton Adoff, of Berlin, and a son, Jaime Levi Adoff, of Manhattan.
She is survived by a son, Michael Moore of Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
      
She is survived by her daughter, of Massachusetts; a son, Kim, of Wyoming; a sister, Carol Whitmore of California; and two grandchildren.
She was largely self-taught in ancient instruments, and she pursued the field with a determination that was partly due to a rivalry with her father, said her son Anthony Smith.
)
        In addition to Anthony, of Oakland, Calif., Ms. Bloch is survived by another son, Matthew, of Manhattan,  and a grandson, Strider, of San Francisco.
      
The son of minor nobility, Mr. Llewellyn had worked briefly at a mine in southern Africa and as an apprentice brewer in England.
''
        Princess Margaret is survived by her son, Lord Linley, her daughter, Lady Sarah, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by two daughters, Angelica Borgese of Manhattan and Turkey, and Dr. Domenica Borgese of Milan; a son, Marcel Deschamps of Halifax; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
The producers even filmed Ms. Stuart at the hospital after she gave birth to her son in 1956.
Her son's career on the show was short-lived, however.
''She really played the death of her son,'' said her daughter, Cynthia, ''and it was too painful for viewers to watch.
In addition to her husband, daughter and son, Jeffrey Krolik of California, she is survived by two grandchildren.
Their son, Bernard Jr., died after he was shot in his home in Fort Lauderdale in 1974.
Her many charitable interests included the Golden Hills Academy, which she started in part so that her son, who had dyslexia, could get a proper education.
The cause was heart disease brought on by the diet drug known as fen-phen, said Everett Yancey, her son.
''
        In addition to Mr. Yancey, of Philadelphia, she is survived by her son Thomas, also of Philadelphia; three daughters, Lisa Turrentine, of West Chester, Pa., and Pamela and Nicole Turrentine, of Philadelphia; nine grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, William, of Manahawkin, N.J.; her sister, Mary A. Francis of Palm Coast, Fla.; her brothers, Wilmote Burton of the Bronx, and Warren Burton of Palm Coast; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
In addition to acting, she cared for Mr. Jones's infant son, James Earl Jones.
Mr. Newhouse survives Miss DeLay, as do their son, Jeffrey Newhouse, of Bronxville, and their daughter, Alison Dinsmore, of Boston, as well as four grandchildren.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Douglas Knight Jr., who survives her along with their son, Aniruddha, a dancer who is the last direct inheritor of the music and dance traditions preserved in his family for 10 generations.
In 1936, when her painfully diffident husband was crowned King George VI after the abdication of his older brother, she became the strength behind the throne, helping transform him from a stammering, insecure second son into a loved and respected monarch.
Elizabeth and Bertie
        Although history is hazy on facts, several biographers say there was one suitor whom Elizabeth was genuinely in love with: Maj. James Stuart, the equerry to Prince Albert Frederick Arthur George, the Duke of York and King George V's second son.
Their son, Bernard Jr., died after he was shot in his home in Fort Lauderdale in 1974.
Her many charitable interests included the Golden Hills Academy, which she started in part so that her son, who had dyslexia, could get a proper education.
Mrs. Mydans is survived by her husband; their son, Seth, a foreign correspondent for The New York Times; their daughter, Shelley, known as Misty, of Sacramento, Calif.; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      
After the Germans were driven from Poland by Soviet troops, Ms. Belchatowska and Mr. Spiegel moved to Sweden, where they married and where their son Chil, or Julius, was born.
She is survived by her husband; their son, Julius, who is the Brooklyn parks commissioner, and their daughter, Mindy Spiegel of Montreal.
      
She is survived by their children, a daughter, Lindsay, and a son, Dominic; a sister, Barbara Boreman; and three grandchildren.
Ms. Harrison is survived by her daughter, who lives in Bethlehem, Conn., and her son, Josh Harrison of Manhattan.
Morton and Helen Sobell had fled to Mexico in 1950 with their infant son, Mark, and her daughter, trying to find passage to Europe but lacking passports.
Besides her daughter, a resident of San Francisco, and her son, who lives in Menlo Park, N.J., Mrs. Sobell is survived by a sister, Dr. Edith Garduk of Bethesda, Md.
Barbie's male counterpart, Ken, named after Mrs. Handler's son, soon followed.
Mrs. Handler's son, Ken, died of a brain tumor in 1994.
Her only son, Enrique Álvarez Félix, was born in 1934 when she was not quite 20.
Ms. Bower is survived by her husband, John, and a son, Mark, both of Washington Township.
      
She had two daughters, Martha Levinson and Kate Ewing, both of Manhattan, and a son, Paul T. Levinson of Milton, Mass., with her husband, Henry W. Levinson, who also survives, as does a sister, Rachel Achenbach of Boxford, Mass.
She is survived by a daughter, Diane Freudenheim Lange of Danbury, Conn.; a son, Milton, who is a reporter for The New York Times; seven grandchildren; and 16 great-grandchildren.
      
Miles still managed a full life in her hometown, Black River Falls, Wis., where she lived with her son, Cole, 9, and his father, Larry Schultz.
''
        In addition to her son, his father and Ms. Hoff, Ms.
Survivors include a son, Dr. Michael Matzkin; a daughter, Hannah Lavine; four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her mother, Ramelle Monsky of Palm Desert, Calif.; a son, Max, and two daughters, Samantha and Montana, all of Santa Barbara; a sister, Robin Monsky of Chicago; and a brother, Henry Monsky of Omaha.
      
Ms. de Saint Phalle is survived by a brother, John de Saint Phalle, of Florida; a daughter, Laura Duke, of Paris; a son, Philip Mathews, of New York; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Each Sunday, she would organize a Yiddish theatrical presentation in a different barracks, said her son, Ben-Ami, who survives her, along with his two children.
In Paris and Montreal, where she waited with her husband and son for permission to enter the United States, she also worked in the theater.
Mrs. Spaisman, who lived in Manhattan, supported herself by working as a recreation director at the Jewish Institute for Geriatric Care, first in Manhattan and then in New Hyde Park, N.Y. On a typical day, she left for work at 7 and returned at 5 to cook dinner for her husband and son.
She had fought cancer for some time, said her son, Anthony C. Gould.
) Dr. Gould died n 1998; Ms. Gould's son Roger V. Gould, a sociologist at Yale University, died of leukemia at 39 on April 29.
Ms. Gould is survived by her son Anthony, of Manhattan, and her brother, Anthony Regensburg, of Camden, Me., and Boca Raton, Fla.
The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said her son, Ray Robinson II.
Mrs. Robinson is survived by her son and five grandchildren.
      
Professor Roswell is survived by a son, Dr. Arthur, of Bridgewater, N.J.; a daughter, Elaine Roswell of New Haven; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
The cause was cancer, said her son, Lindsey Gruson.
Miss Lewis is survived by her son, Lindsey Gruson, a former reporter for The Times who operates a marketing company, Stet Inc., in South Kent, Conn., and a daughter, Kerry Gruson, a member of The Times's bureau in Miami.
She died of cancer, said her son, Anselm.
In addition to her son, a professor at Rutgers University who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her sister, Radka Donnell, a poet and artist, of Cambridge, Mass., and her brother, Mitko Zagaroff, also of Cambridge, who is a chief engineer for the artists Christo and Jean-Claude.
      
The couple married and had a son, Christopher, who lives in Montana.
She raised her son largely on her own, struggling to eke out a living as a freelance journalist.
She is survived by her son, Thelonious Monk Jr. (known as T. S. Monk) of South Orange, N.J., a drummer, composer and chairman of the Thelonious Monk Institute; a grandson, Thelonious Monk IV; and a granddaughter, Sierra.
      
The cause was cancer, said her son, Lindsey Gruson.
Miss Lewis is survived by her son, Lindsey Gruson, a former reporter for The Times who operates a marketing company, Stet Inc., in South Kent, Conn., and a daughter, Kerry Gruson, a member of The Times's bureau in Miami.
Mr. Clooney was a house painter who drank so much and so often that his own father, a jeweler who served several terms as mayor of Maysville, had his son jailed for public drunkenness.
The cause was breast cancer, said her son Eric Gelman.
Besides her son Eric, of Larchmont, N.Y., she is survived by her husband of 50 years, David Gelman; another son, Andrew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Amy Haugesag of Kansas City, Mo.
Besides her son Eric, of Larchmont, N.Y., she is survived by her husband of 50 years, David Gelman; another son, Andrew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Amy Haugesag of Kansas City, Mo.
She is survived by a son, Paul Wattis, of Paicines, Calif.;, a daughter, Carol Casey, of San Francisco; five grandsons; three granddaughters; and eight great-grandchildren.
The cause was complications from pneumonia, her son Thomas said.
Ms. Solomon's survivors include, besides her son Thomas, of Los Angeles, another son, John, also of Los Angeles, and a brother, Dr. Donald Dworken of Greenwich, Conn.
        ''She was an original, as strong a personality as any of her artists,'' said Mr. Wegman, who was particularly close to the Solomon family.
Ms. Solomon's survivors include, besides her son Thomas, of Los Angeles, another son, John, also of Los Angeles, and a brother, Dr. Donald Dworken of Greenwich, Conn.
        ''She was an original, as strong a personality as any of her artists,'' said Mr. Wegman, who was particularly close to the Solomon family.
Mr. Clooney was a house painter who drank so much and so often that his own father, a jeweler who served several terms as mayor of Maysville, had his son jailed for public drunkenness.
The Marshalls' son, John, began his career as a leading maker of ethnographic documentary films.
She is survived by her daughter, her son, who lives in Belmont, Mass., three grandchildren and three great-granddaughters.
The next year, Ms. Wolff married Mr. Stegman, who survives her, as does their son, Hugh, of Los Angeles.
She is survived by her son, Frederick T. Merrill Jr. of Washington; her daughters, Linda Merrill Ciccone of Florence, Italy, and Dr. Marianna Merrill Russell of Sparks, Md.
After her son, Allan, developed Parkinson's disease, she became a supporter of the Parkinson's Disease Foundation.
In addition to her son, Allan, of New York City, Mrs. Goldman is survived by her daughters, Amy Goldman of Rhinebeck, N.Y., and Jane Goldman and Diane Kemper of New York City.
      
Though Mrs. Robinson herded cattle at 65, climbed trees at 75 and drove until she was 85, her health had gradually deteriorated in recent years, her son Keith said.
But after her marriage to her first husband, Harry Bull, the editor of Town & Country magazine, and the birth of their son, Sandy, she began to take the harp more seriously.
(Her son, Sandy Bull, a noted guitarist, died last year; she is survived by a daughter, Daisy Paradis, and a son, Digger St.
(Her son, Sandy Bull, a noted guitarist, died last year; she is survived by a daughter, Daisy Paradis, and a son, Digger St.
Her survivors include a son, Cornelius Searle Whitney of Berkeley, Calif., and a grandson.
      
Ms. Pamela is also survived by a son, Ken Irwin of Palm Springs, Calif.; 12 grandchildren; and 27 great-grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Raven is survived by a son, Raven Anderson, and a daughter, Anabel Anderson, both of Setauket, and a sister, Deborah Libaire of Bellport, N.Y.
      
The couple had a son, Sean Robert, also of Stamford, and Ms. Hunter is survived by six grandchildren.

        LaWanda Page, the acid-tongued comedienne who, as the cantankerous Aunt Esther, traded barbs with Redd Foxx on the 1970's sitcom ''Sanford and Son,'' died on Saturday in Los Angeles.
''
        Her big break came when she was tapped for a supporting role in the second season of Norman Lear's ''Sanford and Son,'' which starred Foxx, a friend from comedy club days, as Fred Sanford, an eccentric and irascible junk dealer in the Watts section of Los Angeles.
''Sanford and Son,'' ran from 1972 to 1977 on NBC and remained one of television's top rated shows, inspiring several spinoffs in which she also appeared.
The cause was kidney failure, said her son, Eric Canepa.
In addition to her son, of Manhattan, Ms. Lessing is survived by her husband, Tito Enrique Canepa, also of Manhattan, and a daughter, Dr. Cathy Canepa of White Plains.
      
She is survived by her husband of 60 years, Professor Southern; a daughter, April S. Reilly of Florence, Calif.; a son, Edward J., of Port Charlotte; a sister, Stella Hall of Chicago; and three grandchildren.
A year later her husband, still a fugitive, attended the baptism of their son while disguised as an old woman.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her daughter, Kinga; and her son, Sebastian.
      
On Nov. 22, 1971, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that an Idaho law that automatically gave Mrs. Reed's former husband preference over her as administrator of their dead son's estate violated the 14th Amendment's guarantee of equal protection under the law.
The case came about in 1967 after the Reeds' 16-year-old son, Richard Lynn Reed, shot himself.
Mrs. Reed and her former husband, Cecil, from whom she was divorced in 1958, applied to a court to administer their son's small estate, which consisted chiefly of a clarinet, phonograph records, clothes and $495 in a savings account.
She is survived by a son, Piers, and a daughter, Auriol.
      
Dr. Labalme is survived by her husband, George Labalme Jr.; three daughters, Jennifer R. Labalme of Indianapolis, Lisa G. Osterland of Montreal and Victoria A. Labalme of Manhattan; a son, Henry G., of Manhattan and West Cornwall; a sister, Ann H. Poole of Princeton; and six grandchildren.
      
They had two children; the first, a son, Michael, died of cancer in 1995.
Her son teased Ms. Doerr into returning to college in 1975.
But words of searing pain reflected a more immediate concern: her son was then dying of cancer, and Ms. Doerr used italicized passages to tell his story.
In 1966, she garnered more praise for directing and starring in the Langston Hughes play ''Prodigal Son,'' a production that toured Europe.
Her husband, Harold L. Renfield, who predeceased her, had assumed her surname when they wed. She is survived by a son, Robert L.; a daughter, Anna Jo Dubow; nine grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; a brother, Joseph; and a sister, Jean Miller.
      
; a son, Roger Bernard Lowe of Arlington, Va.; two grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; and a brother, Irving R. Segal of Philadelphia.
      
But she is probably best known outside the Bay Area for the rich, thick milk produced on the family farm, which her son Albert turned into high-quality cheese, yogurt and butter at the Straus Family Creamery.
And their son, Daniel, 10, is not shy about critiquing new exhibits.
Julian A. Taylor, son of a prominent Washington clergyman.
She is survived by her husband, the New Yorker writer Philip Hamburger, whom she married in 1968; a son, Peter Matson; 10 grandchildren; and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
She had last lived in Alexandria, Va., her son, Linton Wells II, said, but her life had many takeoffs and landings -- and a famous bailout.
In addition to her son, who lives in Springfield, Va., Mrs. Wells is survived by her brother, Kenneth Gillis of Franklin, Mich., and two grandsons.
Mrs. Mahoney is survived by a son, J. Michael Mahoney of Larkspur, Calif., and grandchildren.
      
