Dr. Thompson is survived by her husband, James E.; a daughter, Heather R. Cavalli of Miami; a son, James E., also of Manhattan; her mother, Virginia W. Morosani of Litchfield; two sisters, Virginia Smith of Mill Neck, L.I., and Roopa Morosani of Menlo Park, Calif., and three brothers, George Morosani of Ashville, N.C., Reto Morosani of Litchfield and John Morosani of Manhattan.
      
; a daughter, Wendi Rose of New York; a son, Andrew Rose of Santa Monica, Calif., and a sister, Barbara Lembo of New York.
      

        Barbara Howes, a poet who was one of five finalists for the National Book Award in poetry last year for her book "Collected Poems 1945-1990," died in her  sleep early yesterday at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington,  Vt. She was 81 and lived on a farm in Pownal, Vt.
        She died after a long illness, said her son Gregory Jay Smith.
"
        In addition to her son Gregory, of Pownal, Miss Howes is survived by another  son, David Smith of Manhattan and a sister, Priscilla Howes Grant of Middlebury, Vt.
      
"
        In addition to her son Gregory, of Pownal, Miss Howes is survived by another  son, David Smith of Manhattan and a sister, Priscilla Howes Grant of Middlebury, Vt.
      
She was 24 when she was sent into exile and separated from their infant son,  Yuri, whom she did not see again until he was 20.
In addition to her daughter and her son Yuri Larin, Miss Larina is survived by her second son, Mikhail Fadeyev.
      
In addition to her daughter and her son Yuri Larin, Miss Larina is survived by her second son, Mikhail Fadeyev.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Manz is survived by a son, Gilbert Jr.; four daughters, Bonnie Prieben, Maureen Weigert, Barbara Canapa and Marjory von Hof;  a brother, Carl Schuland, of Green Bay, Wis., 11 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
In addition to Justice Shea, Mrs. Klau is survived by two other daughters, Lucille K. Carothers of Cincinnati and Paula K. Oppenheim of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, James D. Klau of San Juan; a brother, Dr. Percy Klingenstein of New York City; 13 grandchildren, and 23 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to Justice Shea, Mrs. Klau is survived by two other daughters, Lucille K. Carothers of Cincinnati and Paula K. Oppenheim of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, James D. Klau of San Juan, P.R.
The cause of death was complications from a bone marrow transplant while she  was being treated for cancer, said a son, Christian Carone.
Besides her son Christian, she is survived by her husband, Robert T. Paul of  Greenville, and another son, Claude Carone of Claverack, N.Y.
      
Besides her son Christian, she is survived by her husband, Robert T. Paul of  Greenville, and another son, Claude Carone of Claverack, N.Y.
      
Miss Douglas's father, who before his appointment as Ambassador was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona and budget director for President Franklin D. Roosevelt, was the son of James Stuart Douglas, the owner of copper  mines in Arizona.
She was 70 and had cancer, said her son, Jay Perlstein of Pleasantville, N.Y.
        Mrs. Perlstein was already ill last year when she placed 16th in the American Contract Bridge League's National Player of the Year standings.
She is survived by her son and two grandchildren.
      
In 1933, she married Christopher Hawkes, a professor of archeology, and they had a son, Nicolas.
Ms. Hawkes is survived by her son from her first  marriage.
      
; a son, John H., of Ithaca, N.Y; a sister, Barbara Vineyard of Sanibel, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      
Survivors include Mr. Johnson, two daughters, Charlotte Ford of Manhattan and Anne Ford of Southampton and Manhattan; a son, Edsel B. Ford 2d of Grosse Pointe; five sisters, Katherine Sullivan of Arizona, Mary Murnane and Margie Murphy of Florida, Barbara Hennessey of Connecticut and Sheila Collins of California; two brothers, Morgan McDonnell of Chicago and Jim McDonnell of Detroit, seven grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
By the time he returned from Dachau concentration camp in 1945 (he was the subject of her 1985 book "La Douleur," later published in the United States as "The War"), she was already involved with Dionys Mascolo, who was to become her second husband and with whom she had  a son, Jean.
"
        She is survived by her son and Mr. Steiner.
      
"
        While filming "The Adventurep of Casanova" in Mexico City, she met Abelardo Rodriguez, the son of a former President of Mexico.
"
        While filming "The Adventures of Casanova" in Mexico City, she met Abelardo Rodriguez, the son of a former President of Mexico.
"
        Miss Travers, who never married, is survived by an adopted son, Camillus Travers of London, and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was breast cancer, her son Timothy Wood said.
In addition to Mr. Wood of San Francisco, she is survived by another son, Christopher Rudolf of Portland, Ore.
      
A. Snelson, a British civil servant, and to Richard Ney, an actor 10 years her junior who had played her son in "Mrs. Miniver," ended in divorce.
In addition to  Ms. Brown, a resident of the Bronx, she is survived by an adopted son, Anthony Wragg, and by three brothers, James Wragg of Manhattan, Wesley Wragg of Georgetown, S.C., and Sam Wragg of Philadelphia.
      
She is survived by a son, Arturo Bodenstedt.
      
Ms. Shepard is survived by a son, Steven Hanft of Arlington, Va.; a daughter, Laura Korobkin of Chestnut Hill, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
Dr. Klein is survived by a daughter, Dr. Susan Harris Molnar of Scarborough,  N.Y.; a son, William Harris of Pacific Palisades, Calif., and three grandchildren.
She is survived by two daughters, Eliza Nichols of Williamsburg, Va., and Kerstin Nichols of Hartford, Vt.; a son, Duncan, of Thetford, Vt.; a brother, Charles Perot, and two grandchildren.
      
A son, Michael B. Goth, died in 1990.
      
Besides her husband of 70 years, who lives in Bronxville, N.Y., Mrs. Kirk is  survived by their son, John G., also of Bronxville, four granddaughters and two  great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Hyson is survived by two daughters and a son.
      
She and Mr. Wallenda, who were the parents of a son, Steven 2d, now 9, divorced.
Dr. Cox is survived by a son, David, of Fort Wayne, Ind.
She is survived by two daughters, Lily Auchincloss of Manhattan and Patricia  Kind of Huntingdon Valley, Pa.; a son, Henry P., of Manhattan; 6 grandchildren,  and 15 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Wallenda retired in 1956, six years before the seven-person pyramid fell in Detroit, killing two members of the troupe and leaving her adopted son,  Mario, paralyzed.
The cause was complications from pneumonia, said her son Peter.
Besides her husband of 56 years and her sons Peter, of Manhattan, and Rodney, of Morristown, she is survived by another son, Frederick, of Tucson, Ariz.; two  daughters, Beatrice van Roijen of Washington and Adaline Ogilvie-Laing of Manhattan, 13 grandchildren and a sister, Mrs. Anson Phelps Stokes Jr.
      
Ms. Kerouac argued that the will of Mr. Kerouac's mother, Gabrielle Kerouac,  which left her son's effects to Stella Sampas, was a forgery.
She is survived by her husband, David, who is also a medical professor at the university, a son, Kevin, and a daughter, Susan, all of San Francisco, and her mother, Ruth Blitman, of Novato, Calif.
      
She is survived by a son, Michael, of Toronto, and a granddaughter.
      
Helm's survivors include a son, Mathius Kunheim of London, two other sons and a daughter.
      
They were married in December 1947, set up housekeeping in East Elmhurst, Queens, and adopted the son of Miss  Fitzgerald's half-sister, Frances.
While Miss Fitzgerald concentrated on her career, her son was cared for by her aunt Virginia.
Mrs. Schizer is survived by a son, Zevie B., and four grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Michael, of Tampa, Fla.; a daughter, Allegra, of Manhattan; a sister, Degna Paresce of Rome, and two grandchildren.
Mrs. T, as she preferred to be known, remained active in the management of the Tyler Place, although in recent years she shared the task with her daughter and son.
Besides her daughter, Pixley T. Hill, and son, Edward J. Tyler 3d, both of St. Albans, she is survived by 10 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
She became a reporter for the precursor of The International Herald Tribune her first day in the city, but within a year she had married and divorced a fellow reporter, John Ashenhurst, and was back in the United States with an infant son.
Mrs. Hummert, whose son died several years ago, is survived by two granddaughters, Pamela Pigoni of Hinckley, Ill., and Anne Jeskey of Park Ridge,  Ill., and two great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Probien Lee Elmore, and her daughter, Ann Stephenson, died in 1985; her son, James Elmore, died in 1993.

        Gertrude Crain, who was chairwoman of the Crain Communications publishing company for more than 20 years, died July 20 at her son's summer home on Cape Cod.
Besides Senator Kassebaum, Mrs. Landon is survived by a son, John C.; six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband; a  son, Benjamin Treuhaft of Berkeley, Calif.; two sisters, Deborah Devonshire of Chatsworth, England, and Diana Mosley of Paris, and three grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1936 and who retired from the Supreme Court in 1986, Mrs. Powell is survived by three daughters, Pendleton Bowen of Whidbey Island, Wash., Josephine Smith of Houston and Molly Sumner of Salt Lake City; a son, Lewis F. 3d, of Richmond, and eight grandchildren.
      
She dropped out of college for two years -- during which her son, Harvey, was born -- and then returned and received her bachelor's degree in 1932.
In addition to her son, of Columbia, Md., and her daughter, Anne Allen of East Windsor, N.J., she is survived by three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Yannis Papamichail; her mother and two brothers.
      
She is survived by a son and three daughters from her first marriage: Thomas  Langman of Washington, Betsy L. Schulberg of Westhampton Beach, L.I., Lynn L. Lilienthal of Reston, Va., and Deborah L. Lesser of Berkeley, Calif., and 11 grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by her two children with Mr. Mason: a daughter, Portland, and a son, Morgan.
      
She is survived by a son, James, and a daughter, Harriet.
      
She is survived by a son, David, of Wayne, N.J.; a daughter, Pamela, of Chicago; a sister, Marlene Bagdikian of Berkeley, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Jeffry James Oliver of New York City, and a brother, Sal Ventimiglia.
      
Dr. Broverman is survived by a son, Clifford, of Worcester; a daughter, Sherryl A. Broverman-Wray of Stony Brook, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      
The cause was cancer, said her son Joshua.
In addition to her son Joshua, she is survived by another son, Jonas Cohn Livingston, both of Los Angeles; a daughter, Jennie Livingston of New York City, a film maker; a grandson, Richard Gibbons Livingston, and a sister, Hannah Pakula, a biographer.
      
In addition to her son Joshua, she is survived by another son, Jonas Cohn Livingston, both of Los Angeles; a daughter, Jennie Livingston of New York City, a film maker; a grandson, Richard Gibbons Livingston, and a sister, Hannah Pakula, a biographer.
      
Her son, Peter, was killed in an auto accident in 1981.
      
He and a son, Frederick Jr., were killed in a plane crash in 1954.
Besides  her daughter, who lives in Palm Beach, Mrs. Phillips is survived by a son, Herbert R. Phillips, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Milton Rollins of Brooklyn, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
There was a brief early marriage she never talked about, and in 1980, just after giving birth to their son, she married John McCook, an actor.
''
        Miss Prowse is survived by her son, Seth McCook, of Los Angeles; her mother, Phylis Polte; a brother, Dr. Clive Prowse, both of Vanderbijl Park, South Africa, and her companion, B. J. Allen.
      
There was a brief early marriage she never talked about, and in 1980, just after giving birth to their son, she married John McCook, an actor.
''
        Miss Prowse is survived by her son, Seth McCook, of Los Angeles; her mother, Phylis Polte, and a brother, Dr. Clive Prowse, both of Vanderbijl Park, South Africa, and her companion, B. J. Allen.
      
Mrs. Noyce is survived by a son, William, of Hollis, N.H.; three daughters, Pendred of Weston, Mass.
Now Masako-san, as the Crown Princess is often called, has not only virtually vanished from sight, but is also measured by a standard that is thousands of years old: her ability to bear a son.
But without a son in sight, people are openly discussing the succession.
After Akihito, the throne goes to the Crown Prince, Naruhito, but if he dies without leaving a son, it will go to his younger brother, Prince Akishino.
''Even as commoners, there is a lot of pressure on you to have a boy if you marry the oldest son.
Unlike an empress, Masako-san is a yome, the wife of a son, and according to Confucian patriarchy, a yome doesn't hold any role, not even a place in the family.
The cause was a heart attack, said her son, Gordon Squire of Williamstown, Mass.
Mrs. Entenmann had suffered from a heart ailment in recent years and died of complications from a recent operation, her son, William 3d, said.
For more than 50 years, Mrs. Entenmann, who married the son of the bakery's founder and was the mother of three sons who operated Entenmann's for decades, took an active role in the company, keeping the books, managing the office and, after her husband died in 1951, sharing managerial decisions with her sons until her retirement 15 years ago.
; a daughter, Catherine L. Munson, of Fort Mill, S.C.; a son, Ethan V. Munson, of Milwaukee, and one grandchild.
      
She is survived by a son from her second marriage, Richardson Bass of Amagansett.
      
She is survived by a son, David, of Santa Monica, Calif.
      
She is survived by a son, Robert, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of four years, William D. Thompson; three daughters, Linda Coleman of Southampton, L.I., and Penny Coleman and Susan C. Bynum, both of Manhattan; a son, Payson Coleman of Old Brookville; a sister, Patricia Bonicatti of Rome; a brother, Peter S. Wainwright of Scottsdale, Ariz., and nine grandchildren.
      
The original version of La Plante, her son explained yesterday, had no ''e'' at the end, but she added one, without prompting by studio executives, after friends pointed out it needed a proper feminine French ending to go with the ''La.
Although there were some sniggling suggestions that the papers, at least, had been deliberately torched to hide evidence of the former Mayor's suspected corruption, Miss La Plante's son insisted that the fire had been entirely accidental.
Miss La Plante, whose husband died in 1985, is survived by a daughter, Jill Murray of Mill Valley, Calif.; a son, Tony Asher of Los Angeles, and a grandson.
''
        In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Trocme is survived by a son, Jacques, of Paris, 10 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.

        Julia Waldbaum, an effervescent personification of motherly concern, homey wisdom and business savvy who helped build a supermarket chain from a butter and egg store in Brooklyn, died in her sleep on Monday as her son held her hand in her apartment in Floral Park, Queens.
; a son, Ira Waldbaum of Old Westbury, L.I.

        Ruth Lewis Farkas, who was appointed Ambassador to Luxembourg in 1973 after she and her husband, the founder of the Alexander's department stores, contributed $300,000 to President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign, died on Friday at the Park Avenue home of her son Robin.
She is survived by her son, James K. Reiter of Hollywood, Fla.; her mother, Edith Rosenwasser of Boca Raton, Fla., and her brother, Stan Rosenwasser of Rehobeth Beach, Del.
      
She had been suffering from cardiopulmonary disorders, according to her son, Stephen Cuyjet Jr.
        Mrs. Cuyjet's most famous pupil was Judith Jamison, artistic director of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater.
In addition to her son, Stephen Jr., of San Diego, she is survived by a daughter, Judith Coldvin, of Marlton, N.J.; a son, Mark, of Philadelphia; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Stephen Jr., of San Diego, she is survived by a daughter, Judith Coldvin, of Marlton, N.J.; a son, Mark, of Philadelphia; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Professor Salken is survived by her husband, Matthew Rosen; a son, Billy; a sister, Judy Salken of Mahopac, N.Y., and her parents, Doris and Irvin Salken of Williamsburg, Va.
      
She is survived by her husband, two daughters, Susanna B. Konner and Sarah B. Konner, and a son, Adam J. Konner, all of Atlanta; her parents, Jerome and Edna Shostak of Midwood, Brooklyn, and Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Lucy Shostak of Baldwin, L.I.
      
Her son, Terry, said the cause was kidney failure.
''
        Never mind that Mr. Knutson, who had once worked on her father's farm in North Dakota, had not shared a bedroom with his wife for years or that he had regularly beaten her so badly during her visits to Minnesota, as their son later recalled it, that she had to wear dark glasses to hide her black eyes from her fellow members of Congress.
According to her son, who was adopted when he was 8 over the objections of his father, Mrs. Knutson, a deeply religious woman who frequently cited the biblical passage, ''Vengeance is Mine, sayeth the Lord,'' never expressed bitterness toward her husband.
Besides her son, of Bloomington, Minn., Mrs. Knutson is survived by two sisters, Helen Riets of Devil's Lake, N.D., and Crystal Greguson of Edina, two grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by a son, Michael Rubin of Boston.
      
Mrs. Ullmann is survived by a son, Dr. Leonard P. Ullmann of Incline Village, Nev., five grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.

        Dorothy Bird, an early Martha Graham dancer who also appeared on Broadway and became a noted Graham teacher, died on Tuesday at the home of her son, Casey Villard, in Etna, N.H. She was 84.
In addition to her son, she is survived by three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Chester, former director of the Yale University Press; two daughters, Hilary Mills Loomis of Manhattan and Alley Mills Bean of Los Angeles; a son, Tony Mills of Oakland, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
In 1934, not long before the birth of their son, Dr. Blondheim committed suicide.
Her survivors include her son, David, of Washington, and her daughter, Ann Dulles Joor, of Manlius, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, Dr. Daniel Goldberg of Athens, Pa.; two sisters, Hannah Levin of the Bronx and Shulamis Friedman of Brooklyn; and two granddaughters.
      
Her son Nicholas said the cause was emphysema.
In addition to her son Nicholas, of Brooklyn, and her brother of Oakland, N.J., Mrs. Macdonald is survived by another son, Michael of Manhattan, two grandchildren and one great grandchild.
In addition to her son Nicholas, of Brooklyn, and her brother of Oakland, N.J., Mrs. Macdonald is survived by another son, Michael of Manhattan, two grandchildren and one great grandchild.
''My son is not an Astor,'' she said, referring to her son, Tony Russell, from an earlier marriage.
''My son is not an Astor,'' she said, referring to her son, Tony Russell, from an earlier marriage.
Correction:  December 21, 1996, Saturday
        An article on Wednesday about Brooke Astor's plans to close the Vincent Astor Foundation misidentified her son, who expressed support for his mother's decision against leaving it in his hands or someone else's.
Mrs. Gaiser is survived by a son, George Frederick Jewett Jr. of San Francisco; a daughter, Margaret Jewett Greer of Chevy Chase, Md.
After their son's death, she and her husband, Nathan, helped raise money for groups like the Congress on Racial Equality and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, and lobbied for Federal voting-rights legislation.
Mrs. Schwerner is survived by another son, Stephen of Yellow Springs, Ohio; her brother, Morris Seigel, a resident of Florida, and two granddaughters.
Young Madga was 5 in 1939 when her father, Gyula Denes, a wealthy publisher, fled Budapest, abandoning his daughter, son and wife, who sought refuge in houses protected by Swiss diplomats.
''
        She is survived by a son, Adam, of Thones, France.
      
The two were married in 1936 and set out for Africa, where he had grown up as the son of British missionaries.
But in her autobiography, Mrs. Leakey wrote that after an earlier major find they ''cast aside care'' and that was how their son Philip ''came to join our family.
Mrs. Machover is survived by a son, Robert Machover of Milford, N.J., and a grandson.
      
She was born in a Prague to a working-class family and met her husband, the  oldest son of a Prague industrialist impoverished by Communist nationalization in 1948, when he was a theater stage hand in the 1950's.
She married Dr. Fitzhugh Boggs, a fellow scientist, in 1941 and gave birth to their son, David, in 1945.
She is survived by her husband, Cameron; a son, Cameron F. MacRae 3d, of New  York City, and two grandchildren.
      
She died of heart failure after a long illness, said her son Tony.
Her great-grandfather, Lord Dufferin, was an eminent Victorian rumored to have been Disraeli's illegitimate son.
"
        In addition to her daughter Ivana, of Manhattan, she is survived by her mother, of London; a sister, Lady Perdita Blackwood, of Ulster; another daughter, Evgenia Citkowitz of Los Angeles, and a son, Sheridan Lowell of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by children from two previous marriages: a son, Arthur Debernarde of Minneapolis, and a daughter, Donna Maria  Lynn of Westport, Conn.; a stepdaughter, Chris Maxwell of Los Angeles, and five  grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Needham, Mass., she is survived by a son, Gabriel, a sculptor, of Wood River Junction, R.I., and four grandchildren.
      
