)
        Her husband's death had left her nearly penniless, with a teenage son to raise.
She is survived by her daughter, Frederica Fisher Thea, of Manhattan; her son, Ned Gershenson, of Henderson, Nev.; and two grandsons.
      
It won a 1998 Pulitzer Prize for editorials about schools and other local issues, written by its editor and co-publisher, Mrs. Stein's son Bernard L. Stein.
In addition to her son, Mrs. Stein's survivors include another son, Richard L., co-publisher of The Press; three grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      
In addition to her son, Mrs. Stein's survivors include another son, Richard L., co-publisher of The Press; three grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by a son, James J., also of Columbia; a daughter, Jean Rosenberg of Middlebury, Vt.; a sister, Emily Jack of Washington; and three grandchildren.
The apparent cause was pneumonia, her son Christopher said.

        Nearly 50 years after the death of her son, Emmett Till, who was murdered and thrown into a river in Mississippi, Mamie Till Mobley died here today, still clinging to the hope for justice.
Family members said she was rushed to Jackson Park Hospital, where she died about 2:30 p.m.
        After the killing of her 14-year-old son in 1955 in Money, Miss., Mrs. Mobley allowed his mutilated body to be displayed in an open coffin during his funeral service, where mourners recoiled at the sight of Emmett's wounds.
No one was ever convicted in her only son's death, a fact that drove Mrs. Mobley to speak out about racial injustice for more than four decades.
''Her ultimate goal was to bring justice for what happened to her son.
''
        In addition to writing the current book, with Chris Benson, a Chicago lawyer and author, on her son's case, Mrs. Mobley is also featured in a new documentary, ''The Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till,'' by Keith Beauchamp.
Mr. Jackson praised Mrs. Mobley as a woman of strength who did not harbor hate and who used her son's death to transform the lives of others.
''
        But she said she soon began to talk about her son's death and to sound the call for justice.
''
        She believed that her son's dying ultimately was not in vain.
Mrs. Hirsch is survived by her son, Rudolph, of Washington; three grandchildren, Stephanie Weinstein of Fairfax Station, Va., Andrew, of Coshocton, Ohio, and Claudia, of New York; as well as by four great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Richard; a daughter, Jennifer Gerard Maric; three grandchildren; and a brother, Irwin.
      
The baroness is survived by her husband; two daughters, Nellie Munthe of London and Elisabeth of Paris; a son, Nathaniel of New York City; five grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
After acting in stock and radio roles, she made her Broadway debut in 1941 in the drama ''Native Son,'' staged by Orson Welles.
Peggy Conklin was born on Nov. 2, 1902, in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. She spoke little of her childhood, her son, Michael Thompson, said yesterday, except to say that it had been marked by poverty and her father's absence.
Besides her son, of Redwood City, Calif., she is survived by a daughter, Antonia West, of Stroud, Gloucestershire, England, and three grandchildren.
''In later years,'' her son said, ''she would look back and say, 'Gosh, I wonder if I could have had a career like Helen Hayes or Mary Martin.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Tarlow is survived by her son, Cody, a student at the University of California at Santa Cruz; her younger sister, Jamie Anderson, of Westwood, Mass.
Dr. Davis is survived by her husband of 47 years, Dr. Walter Adam Wichern Jr., chairman emeritus of surgery at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center; a son, Walter A. III, and a daughter, A. Logan Wichern, both of Manhattan; and a sister, Carol Goodman of Morristown, N.J.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Sue Lynn Hawkins of Irvine, Calif.; a son, Loren Heacock of Fountain Valley, Calif.; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert Wilson; her son, Rob; and her daughter, Hilary.
      
''
        Ms. Duncan is survived by her husband of 62 years, who lives in New York; a son, Craig Duncan, of Greenwich, Conn; two daughters, Lynn Tarbox of Tampa, Fla., and Gail Simmons of New York; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was liver disease, said her son, Daniel Druckman.
In addition to her son, of Orangeburg, N.Y., she is survived by a daughter, Karen S. Jeanneret-Druckman, of Rolle, Switzerland, and three grand-daughters.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Ann Marcus of Manhattan and Dorothy Marcus of the Bronx; a son, Daniel, of Washington; five grandchildren; six great-grandchildren; and two sisters, Marion Epstein of Princeton, N.J., and Helen Joffe of Rochester.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by their son, David, and a grandson.
      
Marcel LaBeija and Mr. Lantelme said that Pepper was also survived by a son and daughter, but did not know these survivors' names.
She is survived by her son, Scott Alsop; her daughters Mary Powell Harpel and Kathleen Powell; and her brother, Charles Scott.
In addition to Sunny, of Norman, Okla., and Coral Gables, Fla., and Stormie, of Pacific Grove, Calif., she is survived by another daughter, Dawn, of Pacific Grove; a son, Trails, of Simi Valley, Calif.; a brother, Harold Jones, of Palm Desert, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
His work and business was carried on by his son, Marc, her father.
She is survived by a son and three daughters.
      
In addition to her daughter Sarah, Dr. Densen-Gerber is survived by another daughter, Trissa Baden of Hopewell, N.J.; a son, Lindsey, of Brookline, Mass.
She is also survived by her son with Johnny Cash, John Carter Cash; her stepchildren Rosanne, Tara, Kathy and Cindy; and several grandchildren.
Mr. Gow died in 1993, and Dame Wendy's survivors include their daughter, Ann, and their son, Anthony.
She is survived by her son, Phillip Jr., of Baltimore, and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was emphysema, her son David said.
Besides her son David, of Venice, Calif., and Manhattan, she is survived by another son, Nicholas, of Princeton, N.J.; a sister, Eleanor Sheldon of Studio City, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      
Besides her son David, of Venice, Calif., and Manhattan, she is survived by another son, Nicholas, of Princeton, N.J.; a sister, Eleanor Sheldon of Studio City, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      
The owner's son Henry Koch flirted with her, but she thought he was married.
''
        Their first date was the opening night of ''Showboat'' in 1927, and they were married the next year, her son Peter said.
He and David, another son, survive her, as do six grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, Antonia, of Los Angeles, Ms. Belle is survived by her husband, John Belle, partner in the architectural firm of Beyer, Blinder, Belle; her brother Michael Stagg of Oakland, Calif.; her son, David, of New York City; her stepchildren, Sebastian, of Augusta, Me., Fenella of Charlottesville, Va., and Amelia, of Sonoma, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      
''
        Geppi-Aikens persevered in the hopes of seeing her son, Michael, graduate from high school and having her team make it to the N.C.A.A.
She was a vocal powerhouse, with a tough, raspy voice that could ride the percussive attack of a rumba or bring hard-won emotion to a lovelorn Cuban son.
Her son Manavedra Chitnis said that women who did act were regarded as prostitutes, and so Ms. Chitnis was shunned by Brahmans, the priestly caste of which she was a member.
She did not care, her son said, nor was she abashed by these prejudices when she moved on, in the 1930's, to India's large and lively movie industry in Bombay, now known as Bollywood.
In addition to her son Manavendra, Ms. Chitnis is survived by her sons Benoy and Raj, and by three grandchildren.
      
In an interview in Success magazine in 1998, she said her father lost a son in the war.
''I became a surrogate son,'' she said.
In addition to her husband, whose work is currently on special exhibition at the New-York Historical Society, she is survived by two daughters, Ellen R. Hart of Melrose Park, Pa., and Paula Rogovin of Teaneck, N.J.; a son, Mark, of Forest Park, Ill.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her son Charles Matthau, a film director.
They had a son, Aram, and a daughter, Lucy, who died earlier this year.
Miss Samuels is survived by her son, Paul Oppenheimer of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, John, a composer who grew up in Scarsdale, N.Y.; a daughter, Susan Stubin of Passaic, N.J.; a son, David, of Athens, Ga., and seven grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Hershell H. Nixon; three daughters, Maureen Quinlan of Duluth, Minn., Kathleen Brush of Fort Collins, Colo., and Eileen McGowan of Houston; a son, Joseph, of Houston; two sisters, Patricia Collins of Gloucester, Mass., and Marilyn Lowery of Los Angeles; and 13 grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Anna Hopwell Madge; a son, James Madge; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Jacobsen is survived by a son, Erlend, of Plainfield, Vt.; five grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
He died in 1999, and the couple's eldest son, also called Henri, claimed the title of Count of Paris and Duke of France, becoming the new pretender.
She died at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, a Long Island hospital of which she and her husband were among the founders, said her son Kevin McCrary.
Mrs. Kidwa is survived by three daughters; a son, Nassir al-Kidwa, the Palestinian representative at the United Nations; and her husband, Jarir al-Kidwa, an adviser to Mr. Arafat.
In addition to him, Mrs. Borsten is survived by a son, Joseph Borsten of Los Angeles; a daughter, Joan Borsten Vidov of Los Angeles; a sister, Lillian Minkowski of Santa Cruz; and a grandson.
      
Ms. Chilcott is survived by her husband, David Sigall, who was also her manager, and her 4-year-old son from an earlier relationship, Hugh.
Her clients included entire families, like the Hurds: Clement, the illustrator of ''Goodnight Moon'' and ''The Runaway Bunny''; Edith, the author of ''Johnny Lion's Rubber Boots,''; and their son, Thacher, the author and illustrator of ''Art Dog.
In addition to Ms. Downs, of Newport Beach, Calif., she is survived by a son, Mac Shuttleworth; a brother, George La Fleche; a sister, Janine Helzer; and two grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Foster is survived by her son, James Foster of Indianapolis; her daughter, Rose Davis of Salt Lake City; her brothers, Dr. Sullivan Jackson and Thomas Martin, both of Selma; and three grandchildren.
Shortly after graduation from high school in Long Beach, Calif., Norma Greve married Jack May, a competitive surfer, with whom she had a son, Lary.
She is survived by a son, William Berkson, of San Francisco; a grandson and a granddaughter; and two great-granddaughters.
''
        In addition to her husband, Lady Donaldson is survived by a son, two daughters and six grandchildren.
''Two in the Far North'' also recounts the couple's honeymoon, a 500-mile caribou research expedition by dogsled, as well as a later river journey taken with their infant son, Martin, strapped to their canoe.
Madame Chiang had a notoriously tempestuous relationship with her husband, and then with his son by a previous marriage, Chiang Ching-kuo, who became Taiwan's leader after Chiang Kai-shek's death.
Madame Chiang had a notoriously tempestuous relationship with her husband, and then with his son by a previous marriage, Chiang Ching-kuo, who became Taiwan's leader after Chiang Kai-shek's death.
Chiang had already fathered a son in a marriage that was arranged when he was only 14, and had adopted a second son and married a second wife, Chen Chieh-ru.
Chiang had already fathered a son in a marriage that was arranged when he was only 14, and had adopted a second son and married a second wife, Chen Chieh-ru.
Professor Heilbrun, who had written of taking her own life in a 1997 book, ''The Last Gift of Time: Life Beyond Sixty,'' committed suicide, said her son, Robert.
In addition to her son, of Brooklyn, and her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Margaret Heilbrun, of Brooklyn, and Emily Heilbrun, of Eugene, Ore., and two grandchildren.
The cause was cancer, said Ira Glass, her son and the producer of ''This American Life'' on public radio stations.
In addition to her husband and her son, Ira, of Chicago, Dr. Glass is survived by two daughters, Randi Murray of Hillsborough, Calif., and Karen Glass Berry of Los Angeles, and two grandsons.
She is survived by a son, William.
Another son, John, vanished in 1978.
      
The cause was cancer, her son said.
Ms. Broderick also worked on the script of ''Glory,'' the 1989 Civil War drama, which starred her son as a young commander in charge of an all-black regiment.
In addition to Mr. Wesley and her son, Ms. Broderick is survived by two daughters, the Rev.
She stopped going to the office about five years ago, her son said.
Ms. Stark is survived by her son, Carl.
Besides Mr. Sheer, her husband of 33 years, Ms. Evans is survived by a son, Jonathan, of Tokyo; her mother, Kay Pierce of Columbus, Ohio; a sister, Judy Thompson, also of Columbus; and a brother, James Evans of Richmond, Va.
      
In addition to her son Alexander, of Hunterdon County, N.J., and her daughter, Cornelia, of Old Westbury, she is survived by two stepsons, Winston Guest of Palm Beach, and Frederick, of New York, and three grandchildren.
In addition to her son Alexander, of Hunterdon County, N.J., and her daughter, Cornelia, of Old Westbury, she is survived by two stepsons, Winston Guest, of Palm Beach, and Frederick, of New York, and three grandchildren.
In 1986, she replaced her elder son, Sam Sebastiani, who had embarked on an ambitious and costly plan to focus on higher-quality wines, as head of the winery with her younger son, Don Sebastiani.
In 1986, she replaced her elder son, Sam Sebastiani, who had embarked on an ambitious and costly plan to focus on higher-quality wines, as head of the winery with her younger son, Don Sebastiani.
One day Eleanor Roosevelt, who had an apartment in the Village, walked by with Fala, her husband's beloved Scottish terrier, said Christopher Murray, Ms. Lange's son.
Her first husband, the actor Don Murray, encouraged her to try acting, her son said, and Ms. Lange eventually began acting in films and later won two Emmy Awards for her portrayal of a widow in the television series ''The Ghost and Mrs.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Lange is survived by her son, Christopher, of Malibu, Calif., and a daughter, Patricia Murray of Arroyo Grande, Calif.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Paul, of Berkeley; a daughter, Jill, of Boston; and a brother, John, of Liverpool, N.Y.
        A month before she died, friends gave Ms. Gustafson a final tea party at Chez Panisse.
; and Katherine K. Fleischman of Baltimore; a son, Robert J., of Manhattan; 11 grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Rick; a daughter, Vicki; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Kidder's response, her son Robert recalled yesterday, was to have a union label stitched into the wedding dress at another factory, owned by a Harvard classmate of her husband, which did have some union workers.
The cause was respiratory failure, said her son, Sam.
In addition to her son, Dr. Singer is survived by her husband, Dr. Jerome R. Singer; a daughter, Martha Singer, also of Berkeley; and five grandchildren.
      
