She is survived by her husband, Bernard; a son, John, of Van Nuys, Calif.; a sister, Evelyn Blackstone of Tamarac, Fla.; and a brother, Robert Kraushaar of El Toro, Calif.
      
Her husband survives, as does her son, Homer Hargrave Jr. of Paso Robles; her daugher, Mrs. Roger Jackson Coleman, several grandchildren and several great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband survives, as does her son, Homer Hargrave Jr. of Paso Robles; her daughter, Mrs. Roger Jackson Coleman; several grandchildren, and several great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, John, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a daughter, Marianne Hatfield of Porterville, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      
She is survived by a son, Ross, of Hartsdale, and a daughter, Janet, of White Plains.
      
She is survived by her husband, John Howard, who founded the Cresset Press, and by a son and a daughter.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Goldberg is survived by a daughter, Barbara Cramer of Chicago; a son, Robert Goldberg, of Anchorage, Alaska, and six grandchildren.

       Gabrielle Kaufman Koppell, former owner and director of the Riverdale School for Young Children and the mother of Assemblyman G. Oliver Koppell, died of heart failure Sunday at her son's home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
Gabrielle Kaufman Koppell, former owner and director of the Riverdale School for Young Children and the mother of Assemblyman G. Oliver Koppell, died of heart failure Sunday at her son's home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Olivia, of Manhattan; two sisters, Anny Hochschild of Chile, and Elsa Drucker of Riverdale, and three grandchildren.
      
While at the United Nations, she lived in a six-bedroom house in Scarsdale with her mother and her five children, including an adopted son who was the child of a friend killed in the revolution.
Surviving are a son, William Granger Blair of Manhattan, a reporter for The Times; a sister, Barbara Shepard of Menasha, Wis., and Carefree, Ariz., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Remsen Wolff, and two granddaughters, Sara and Naomi Wolff.
Mrs. Williams is survived by a son, Alexander, of Chicago; a daughter, Elizabeth Fox of Philadelphia; a brother, Charles Evans of Jacksonville, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Sue Saniel Elkind, of Pittsburgh, and a son, James Brook, of New York.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Stuart Rosenthal; a son, Kennan, of Waltham, Mass; a daughter, Ayla, of Short Hills; her mother, Makbule Aral of Ankara, and three sisters, Nurhan Freie-Aral of Maastricht, the Netherlands, and Gunsel Renkgorur and Aysel Celikadam, both of Ankara.
      
Surviving are a son, Jefferson, of Silver Spring, Md.
She is survived by her husband, Richard; a daughter, Dr. Caroline O. McCagg of Edison; a son, Edward K. McCagg of Seattle; two sisters, Dorothy Love Saunders of Bryn Mawr, Pa., and Mary Love Glenn of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Loening is survived by a brother, Lawrence Larkin of Tallahassee, Fla.; a son, Albert Palmer Loening Jr. of Rochester Hills, Mich., and a grandson.
Mrs. Bryant is survived by her sister, Bessie Myers, of San Francisco, and her son, Otis V. Bryant Jr., of Sylmar, Calif.
      
Survivors include her husband, Milton; a son, Thomas Brady of Guttenberg, N.J.; a brother, Peter Dunn of Whitestone, Queens; two sisters, Agnes Stone of Mount Pocono, Pa., and Maureen Crowley of Oyster Bay, L.I., and one grandchild.
      
'' She later worked with the director D. W. Griffith and made several films with John Ford, John Wayne, her husband and their son, Harry Carey Jr.
''
        In addition to her son, she is survived by a sister, Mignonne; a daughter, Cappy Carey; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Bruce, of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by a son, Robert, of Manhattan; 3 daughters, Aileen Patterson Seldes and Susan Hand Patterson, both of Manhattan, and Virginia Montgomery of Bethesda, Md.
Surviving are her mother, Rita Manning of Gunnison, Colo.; a son, Tiger, of Stockholm; two daughters, Ann Gerschman and Marika Bergman, both of Manhattan; a brother, Paul Manning, also of Gunnison; a sister, Gwen Barry of Palo Alto, Calif., and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Hopf is survived by her husband, Ernest; a son, Christopher, and a daughter, C. C. Hopf.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Jessica and Rebecca, and a son, Peter, all of Cambridge; her parents, Heinrich and Anna-Elisabeth Tolle, and three sisters, Mechtilda Rieke, Heidewig Ellerman and Annegret Falter, all of whom live in West Germany.
      
She is survived by a son, Samuel Jr. of Mt.
Miss Donnell is survived by her son, Phineas Anderson, of Tucson, Ariz., and a daughter, Sally Durham, of Brisbane, Calif.
      
Mrs. Pincus is survived by a son, John, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Laura P. Bernard of Newton, Mass.
Her son and only child, Myron Nevelson, was born in 1922.
She is survived by her son, Myron, three granddaughters, and two great granddaughters.
Her son and only child, Myron Nevelson, was born in 1922.
She is survived by her son, Myron, three granddaughters, and two great granddaughters.
Her son and only child, Myron Nevelson, was born in 1922.
She is survived by her son, Myron, three granddaughters and two great-granddaughters.
''
        Mrs. Conrad is survived by her husband, Harold, and a son, Casey, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Robert Mosier, of Sebring, Fla.
      
; a son, Varick Bacon of Manhattan, three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Russell H. Long of Manhattan; a daughter, Susan R. Lehman of San Francisco; a sister, Susan Bloom of Ganges, British Columbia, and a brother, Smith Bagley of Washington.
      
Mrs. Rauch is survived by her husband; a son, Paul, and two granddaughters.
      
Twenty-nine years later he bought Sweet's from the proprietor's son, Edward.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Rachel, of Atlanta; a son, Robert, and a grandson.
      
Survivors are her son, Ray-Eric of Manhattan; three sisters, Dina Fleming Moreno, Lise Nunes and Nellie Engle, all of Miami, and a brother, Oger, of St.-Martin.
      
She is survived by a son, Richard, of Santa Fe, N.M.; a stepson, Joseph Ryan of Huntington, L.I.
She is survived by a daughter, Jane Hughes Bergler of Danville, Calif.; a son, Dr. John, of Tucson; a sister, Lempi Pagnucco of Cincinnati, and four grandchildren.
      
Mr. Yoneda was interned at the camp at Manzanar, Calif.
        Mr. Yoneda said his wife and son remained with him until he volunteered to perform intelligence work for the United States military against the Japanese Army in Burma.
Mrs. Yoneda was allowed to move with her son to San Francisco, but for the next two years she had to report monthly to military authorities on the child's whereabouts, her husband said.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Yoneda's survivors are her daughter from a previous marriage, Joyce Ebangelista, her son, Thomas Yoneda, and two grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by her mother, Toni Doherty, and a son, Trevor Black.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Gifford is survived by two daughters: Tierney Gifford, and Mary-Elizabeth Berliner of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a son, Edwin Jr., and a sister, Stephanie Stone of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
      
She is survived by her husband; two daughters, Daphne E. M. Nash of Oxford, England, and Marina Yedigaroff of London; a son, Audley George Burnett of London; her mother, Lady Malcolm Douglas-Hamilton of Manhattan; a sister, Mary-Chilton Winslow Mead of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
; a son, Thomas, of Norwood, N.J., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Avraham Katz-Oz, who is Israel's Deputy Agriculture Minister.
      
She is survived by a son, Albert Glinsky of Manhattan.
She is survived a son, Robert Kanof Tendler of Boston, a daughter, Rebecca Jane Tendler of Rosemont, Pa., and a grandson.
She is survived a son, Robert Kanof Tendler of Boston, a daughter, Rebecca Jane Tendler of Rosemont, Pa., and a grandson.
Mrs. Grimm is survived by a son, Peter G. of Larchmont, N.Y. and a grandson.

       Eve Orton, a former editor for Harper's Bazaar and a well-known figure in the fashion industry, was found dead of an overdose of sleeping pills in her Manhattan apartment on May 31, her son said.
Eve Orton, a former editor for Harper's Bazaar and a well-known figure in the fashion industry, was found dead of an overdose of sleeping pills in her Manhattan apartment on May 31, her son said.
She is survived by a son, Gordon Beckhart, of Haddon Heights, N.J.; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Gurko is survived by her husband, Leo, of Manhattan; a son, Stephen, of Frisco, Colo., and a daughter, Jane, of Willits, Calif.
      
She is survived by her son, Ari.
      
Their only son, Irving Berlin Jr., died in infancy, and they had three daughters.
She is survived by her husband, Kenneth Thompson of Sacramento; a daughter, Barbara Jungerman of San Francisco; a son, Michael Hurley of Shingle Springs, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Tamara Wright of Seattle; stepsons, Nicolas Thompson of West Sacramento and Marcus Thompson of San Jose; a brother, Dr. Milton Shapson of Milwaukee; a sister, Phyllis Shapson of Los Angeles; and two grandsons.
      
''We shall miss her very much but she had been very ill for some time,'' Mrs. Woodhouse's son, Patrick, said today.
She is survived by her husband, Kenneth Thompson of Sacramento; a daughter, Barbara Jungerman of San Francisco; a son, Michael Hurley of Shingle Springs, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Tamara Wright of Seattle; stepsons, Nicolas Thompson of West Sacramento and Marcus Thompson of San Jose; a brother, Dr. Milton Shapson of Milwaukee; a sister, Phyllis Shapson of Los Angeles, and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her mother, Jean Dehnel of Daytona, Fla.; a son, Christopher Jones of Boston, and a brother, Robert Henderson of Penn Yan, N.Y.
      
The diminutive, hunch-shouldered actress played her most tormented and tormenting role in the movie, in which Mr. DeVito, as her browbeaten son, Owen Lift, tries to arrange a swap of murder victims.
She is survived by her son, Edwin, of Southampton, a former chairman of the Suffolk Republican Committee; two daughters, Audrey Aldridge and Beverly Flanagan, both of Delray Beach, Fla.; 8 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Miss Dawn is survived by her daughter, Dawn Gruwell Kaufman, and her son, Charles E. Gruwell, both of New York, five grandsons and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Daniel C.; a son, John W., of Manhattan; two daughters, Louise Gaumond of Manhattan and Elizabeth, of Jersey City.
      
She is survived by her son, Sean, and her sister, Diana England of Lancaster, Pa.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Robin, of New York City; a son, Bruce, of Darien, Conn., and a brother, Charles Jacobs of Palm Desert, Calif.
        Funeral services are to be held tomorrow at 10 A.M. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1976 Madison Avenue, at 80th Street.
      
Besides her husband, survivors are a son, Douglas, of Seattle; three daughters, Betsy Parker and JoAnn Ficke of Denver and Mary Ellen Grades of Tucson, Ariz., and four grandchildren.
      
''
        Ms. Norden is survived by her husband, George Heselden, of London; a son, Michael Cole of Guernsey, in the Channel Islands,, and a sister, June Shipp of London.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Joy, of Sedona; a son, Hugh, of Gaithersburg, Md., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. Henry, of Newport Beach, Calif.; two daughters, Margot, of Washington, and Dr. Ellin Lieberman of Los Angeles; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Stuckey's son, the historian Sterling Stuckey, said his mother was hospitalized during a visit to Washington.
Mrs. Stuckey is survived by her son, of Evanston, Ill.; and two sisters, Vera Little of Grand Rapids, Mich., and Ruth Malone of Altadena, Calif.
      
She is survived by her son, Theodore, of Wellesley, Mass.
Surviving are two daugthers, Molly Dolle and Linda Finocchiaro; a son, Christopher, and nine grandchildren, all of the Los Angeles area.
      
''
        In addition to her husband, Miss Jacobson is survived by a son, Bruce, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her mother, Julia Whitley of Dallas; a son, Bruce, of Tokyo; a granddaughter, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Also in attendance were Mrs. Nevelson's son, Mike Nevelson; her sister-in-law, Lillian Berliawsky, and her longtime assistant, Diana McKown.
She is survived by a son, Max, of Alexandria; a daughter, Joan Campbell of Toronto; two stepsons, Wolfgang, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Ernst, of Vincentown, N.J.; nine grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Hendrik, of Boston; a daughter, Katrina McClintock of New City, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Feinberg is survived by her father, Albert C. Freeman of Atherton, Calif.; two sisters, Ruth Sevier of San Francisco and Helen Dwane of Redwood City, Calif.; a son, Sheldon, of Danville, Calif.; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Robert, of San Francisco; a daughter, Kathleen, of New Rochelle, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Joan, of Manhattan; a son, Ralph Jr., of London; a sister, Aileen Davis of Washington; a brother, Booker Harris of Hartford, and six grandchildren.
She is survived by her mother, Sadie Fink of the Bronx; a sister, Anita Berger of Providence, R.I.; a son, Matthew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Cindy, of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      
Miss Graham is survived by her daughter, Wendy Fairey, who is dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at Brooklyn College; her son, Robert Westbrook, now living in Khania, Crete; and by three grandchildren.
After ''Shoemaker'' was published in 1983, she was sued by the family of one of Kallinger's victims under a so-called Son of Sam law in New Jersey that required that money owed to a criminal or his representatives as a result of his crimes go to the victims.
She is survived by a son, George, of Honolulu; a brother, Vincent Demm of Gilboa, N.Y., and two sisters, Therese Sbano and Margaret Meade, both of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by a son, State Supreme Court Justice Harold Baer Jr. of Manhattan, and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a son, Kelly, of Boston; two daughters, Jeanette Atkinson of Boston and Cynthia, of Washington; a sister, Helen Edey of Martha's Vineyard, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Harry Levine; their son, Stephen, of Austin, Tex.
''
        She is survived by a son, Alexander; her mother, Nettie Levy of West Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Marilyn Cohen of New City, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a son, Stephen, of Syracuse; a daughter, Kathleen, of Nantucket, Mass; a brother, William F. Collins, of Stamford, Conn., and a grandson.
      

       Teresa Rosen Gordon, a retired English teacher in New York City, died of stomach cancer Sunday at her son's home in San Francisco.
Teresa Rosen Gordon, a retired English teacher in New York City, died of stomach cancer Sunday at her son's home in San Francisco.
Surviving are a daughter, Jill, and a son, Stephen, both of Manhattan; her mother, Ida Berger, and a sister, Jean Chimsky, both of Cincinnati, and two grandchildren.
      
Miss Jordan is survived by a son, Col. Richard M. Cooper, of the United States Air Force; two daughters, Dr. Eherasa Henderson, of Northridge, Calif., and Mary Carolyn Cooper, of San Diego, and one grandson, Bobby R. C. Henderson, of Northridge.
      
