Later, when the military situation on Corregidor rapidly deteriorated, the general informed her that President Manuel Quezon of the Philippines had offered her and their young son, Arthur, passage to Australia.
The MacArthurs and their 4-year-old son lived in an underground bunker during months of bombardment before agreeing to evacuation on President Franklin D. Roosevelt's orders.
She is survived by her son, Arthur, of New York City, and her half-sister, Angie McCarthy, of Murfreesboro, said Col. William J. Davis, executive director of the MacArthur Foundation in Norfolk.
She is survived by a son from an early marriage, James E. Mitchell of Philadelphia; a sister, Jeanne C. Fleischmann of Manhattan, who is the widow of Peter F. Fleischmann, a chairman of The New Yorker; and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Batcheller is survived by a brother, Donald Macdonald, of Webster, N.Y., and a son, Michael, of Greenwich.
      
Mrs. Ferraro is also survived by a son, Thomas Jacobs of Salem, Mass.
A son, Mark, died in an automobile accident at age 16.
She is survived by a son, David, of Ridgewood, N.J.; three daughters, Lucy Rae Ricciardi of Greenwich, Conn., Catherine Rae Reed of Littleton, Colo., and Mary Louise Rae Arnold of Fort Worth, and eight grandchildren.
      
She adopted a son, James, and had two children with Loder, a son, Anthony, and a daughter, Denise; they all survive her.
She adopted a son, James, and had two children with Loder, a son, Anthony, and a daughter, Denise; they all survive her.
''
        Besides her husband, Mrs. Simon is survived by a daughter, Sheila Simon of Carbondale; a son, Martin, of Crofton, Md., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Peri Yusef of London; a son, Roy P., of Brookline, Mass.
Besides her two sisters and her daughter, Alexandra, of Sparkill, Mrs. Pelletier is survived by her mother, Madeline Moran of Chestnut Ridge, N.Y.; another daughter, Etain, also of Sparkill; a son, Kieran, of Turbotville, Pa.; another sister, Marie Long of Jersey City; three brothers, John Moran of Manalapan, N.J., Joseph Moran of Ireland, and Robert Moran of Wappinger Falls, N.Y.; and two grandsons.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Eddie Starr II, of Phoenix, and a daughter, Evelyn Starr, of Pittsburgh; two brothers, Melvin Faggs, of New York City, and Steve Murray, of Huntsville, Ala.; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Cleon J. Wingard; a son, Cleon Jr., of College Hill, Ohio; a daughter, Diane Lynn Peterson, of Denver; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Auriol was born to the world of fine boarding schools and country manors and married the son of the man who would become president of France.
After the war, her father-in-law became president and she, her husband and Jean-Paul, her older son, moved into Elysee Palace.
The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said a son, John R. Steinberg.
As Jane Nickerson, she was food editor of The Times from 1942 to 1957, when she moved to Lakeland, Fla. She was food editor of The Ledger in Lakeland from 1973 to 1988, her son said.
Besides their son John, of Lakeland, she is survived by their two other sons, Josiah Bartlett Steinberg of Lakeland and Marc Steinberg of White Sulphur Springs; their daughter, Alexandra Kaghan Macaluso of Reston, Va.; and four grandchildren.
      
She later wrote ''Alcestis'' (1960) for Graham and ''My Son, My Enemy'' (1965) for Limon.
Mrs. Venturelli is survived by her son, Alfred of Westchester; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
''
        She is survived by a foster son, Yong-ho Ch'oe of Honolulu.
She is survived by a son, Reed Erskine of New York, and a daughter, Jane Erskine of Seattle.
She is survived by a son, Christopher, of Newton.
      
She captured a windblown Andre Malraux on a Paris rooftop, Boris Pasternak, Aldous Huxley and Andre Gide at a congress for the defense of culture; Walter  Benjamin sitting on a bench in the Bibliotheque Nationale; Vladimir Nabokov, Michel Leiris, Henri Michaux and Jean Paulhan in the editorial offices of the magazine Mesures and James Joyce playing the piano for his son, Giorgio.
She is survived by a son, Robert, of San Francisco; two daughters, Mary Bogdonoff of Manhattan and Susannah Patton of Bethesda, Md.
''
        Her son, also named Lorenz, said Friday that ''Thou Swell, Thou Witty'' had played a critical role in the growth of the popularity of Rodgers and Hart songs that he said had taken place since then.
Besides her son, of Arlington, Va., she is survived by a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Frederica Miceli of Manhattan and Ruth Underwood of Studio City, Calif.; a son, Charles Komanoff of Manhattan; a brother, Stanley Winters of Port Charlotte, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
Some of the mail, which had been sitting in storage for months, contained spoiled cakes and cookies, and there was even a package of steaks a mother had sent to her son overseas, Mrs. Earley recalled.
In addition to her husband, Professor Ronald Dworkin, who teaches at New York University and at the University of London's University College, she is survived by a son, Anthony of London; and a daughter, Jennifer Dworkin of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a son, Bryant, of New York; a daughter, Elisabeth Hayes of Chicago; a grandchild; two step-grandchildren and two step-great-grandchildren.
      
A founding member of the American Negro Theater in Harlem, Ms. Martin was among the first African-American actresses to take the Broadway stage, making her debut as the sister of Canada Lee in Orson Welles's 1941 production of ''Native Son.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Nicholas; her father, Allan Pearlstein of Boca Raton, Fla.; her mother, Gloria Asnes of New York; a sister, Laurie Goldberg of Atlanta; a brother, Robert Pearlstein of Baltimore; and a grandmother, Flora Pearlstein of Baltimore.
Dr. Benesch is survived by a son, Andrew, of Highland Park, N.J.; a daughter, Susan, of Milford, Conn.; a sister, Madeleine, of London; and two granddaughters.
The marriage produced a son, Charles, but ended in divorce in 1947.
'' In 1978 Miss Trevor lost her son, Charles, in an airliner disaster.
The losses of her son and husband in the span of a year left her devastated, and she moved to New York, settling into a Fifth Avenue apartment and embarking on a busy social schedule.
She is survived by a son, Dr. Austin Aardema of Fort Myers; a daughter, Paula Dufford of Valrico, Fla.; six grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      
''  She is survived by a son, Michael; a daughter, Betsy; and a grandchild, all of New York.
      
She is survived by a son, David, of Chevy Chase, Md.
The process by which a man and a woman found each other usually occurred in Regency, Victorian or Georgian times, and before they got to live happily ever after, her characters said things like, ''Oh, Miss, there is evil in this house,'' or, ''My son will never marry; I am his life.
She is survived by Maria, of London; another daughter, Christina Dooley, of Cornwall; a son, Valpy Fitzgerald of Oxford, and nine grandchildren.
The cause was a stroke, said her son Herbert B. Wilcox III.
Besides her son Herbert, of North Hero, Vt., she is survived by two other sons, Gordon W. of Seattle and Thomas E. of Concord, Mass.
The cause was lymphoma, said her son Drew Nieporent, the restaurateur.
Ms. Trent continued to do vocal work on commercials and in her spare time took reservations at her son's Manhattan restaurants.
''
        In addition to her son Drew, she is survived by another son, Tracy, and four grandchildren, all of New Jersey.
      
''
        In addition to her son Drew, she is survived by another son, Tracy, and four grandchildren, all of New Jersey.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Stoliar is survived by a daughter, Lee Stoliar Dufresne of Charlotteville, N.J.; a son, Evan, of Manhattan; a sister, Dr. Virginia Stein of Somerville, N.J.; and a granddaughter.
      
In addition to her husband of 21 years, Professor Blair is survived by a son and a daughter by an earlier marriage, William R. Kincaid of Washington and Kathryn K. Jong of Fayetteville; two stepdaughters and a stepson, Heather E. Blair of Chicago, Arden S. Blair of Columbia, Md., and James R. Blair of Fort Worth; a sister, Lois Alard of Fayetteville, and two grandchildren.
      
Lo in Normandy, Ms. Cowen began experimenting with photography, using as subjects her young son and his cousins.
She is survived by a son, John M. Angelo of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Lorie Cowen Levy of Irvington, N.Y., and Jill Cowen of Manhattan; a stepson, Tony Cowen of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; and a sister, Carol Gruntal of Westchester, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a son, Michael J., of Boston; two daughters, Dr. Margot Onek of Washington and Jane Gilman of South Orange, N.J.; a sister, Jeanne Barnett of Alexandria, Va.; and six grandchildren.
      
The cause was pancreatic cancer, her son Jonathan said.
That description could be applied to the overburdened wife she played in the 1980 Broadway revival of Osborn's ''Morning's at Seven,'' the patrician publisher on the long-running ''Lou Grant'' television series and her portrayal of Livia Soprano, the monster mother of them all, a woman bred into the Mafia who without a blink of hesitation sets up her son Tony to be assassinated because he has moved her to a nursing home.
In addition to her daughter Katie, an actress who lives in Stratford, Ms. Marchand is survived by a son, David of Madison, Wis.; another daughter, Rachel Sparer Bersier, an opera singer of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
When Ms. Marchand played Livia Soprano on ''The Sopranos,'' television viewers wondered how her son Tony, played by James Gandolfini, and his wife (Edie Falco) could put up with her malice and her prejudices.
Frantically, she telephoned her son.
Mr. Chase would not discuss forthcoming events in the series, but if the actress had lived, undoubtedly the mother and son battle would have continued and Livia Soprano would have had the last word.
''
        As Molotov cocktails exploded on Ms. Blackwell's lawn in the Freedom Summer of 1964, Dr. Martin sent Ms. Blackwell's traumatized 7-year-old son to Vermont to attend summer camp.
Though her marriage was deteriorating, she and her husband had had a son, Michael, while in Shanghai.
''
        In the early 1950's she and her family -- another son, Peter, had been born in 1943 -- left England for East Berlin.
She is survived by Sam Wulwick, whom she married in 1988; three daughters, Elinor Wohl of Manhattan, Nancy Drake of Aspen, Colo., and Vicki Greenberg of Lawrence, N.Y.; a son, Larry W. Wohl of Manhattan; a brother, Jack Jaffess of Miami; and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, the actress Marlo Thomas, and Terre Thomas; a son, Tony; five grandchildren and three sisters.
      
In 1995, Nostalgia Television, a national cable network, began reruns of the original show, the rights to which Miss Young had turned over to her son, Christopher Lewis, and his wife, Linda, who are film producers.
When she was 2 her parents separated, and her mother moved with her daughters and son, Jack, to Hollywood.
Making her way to the speaker's stand before an audience estimated at 30,000, Mrs. Hardin was accompanied by her son Jerald Kirsten, a retired Navy captain.
According to her son Jerald, when she phoned her mother to tell her what she had done, ''Her mother said, 'Frieda, you get home this instant!
They married in 1942; their son, the actor Robert De Niro, was born in 1943 and lives in New York City.
The cause was an infection of the colon, said her son, Cameron Richardson.
In addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a  daughter, Katherine O'Keeffe of Kent, Ohio, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Steven; a son, Jay; and a daughter, Jennifer.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Janet Hague of Portland, Ore., and a son, Andrew Hague of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Fitzgerald is survived by a son, Dr. Kim Fitzgerald of Cleveland; her mother, Effie Hargett Brown of Fonda; and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Tigran.
She is survived by two daughters, Monette Watts of Harvest, Ala., and Barbara Russell of Canton; a son, Andrew, of Omaha; a brother, Garfield Heath of Detroit; 8 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was breast cancer, her son Alan said.
In addition to her husband and her son Alan, of San Francisco, Mrs. Davis is survived by another son, Michael, of Belvedere, Calif., and four grandchildren.
In addition to her husband and her son Alan, of San Francisco, Mrs. Davis is survived by another son, Michael, of Belvedere, Calif., and four grandchildren.
As a boy, young Gordon played with Sackville-West's son, Nigel Nicolson.
In this production, directed by Dennis Scott, Mr. Lindo played the son, Walter Lee Younger, a role created by Mr. Poitier, and Mary Alice was her daughter-in-law.
Under her tenure, and with large infusions of money from Ted Field, Ms. Fanning's son from her first marriage, the newspaper continued to thrive.
The cause was lung cancer, said her son Barron.
In addition to her son Barron, of Manhattan, she is survived by her fourth husband, Dion Neutra, an architect and the son and partner of the modernist architect Richard Neutra, whom she married this year; another son, Alan, of Fillmore, Calif.; a brother, Donald Krasne of Beverly Hills; and her mother, Dorothy Krasne of Los Angeles.
In addition to her son Barron, of Manhattan, she is survived by her fourth husband, Dion Neutra, an architect and the son and partner of the modernist architect Richard Neutra, whom she married this year; another son, Alan, of Fillmore, Calif.; a brother, Donald Krasne of Beverly Hills; and her mother, Dorothy Krasne of Los Angeles.
In addition to her son Barron, of Manhattan, she is survived by her fourth husband, Dion Neutra, an architect and the son and partner of the modernist architect Richard Neutra, whom she married this year; another son, Alan, of Fillmore, Calif.; a brother, Donald Krasne of Beverly Hills; and her mother, Dorothy Krasne of Los Angeles.
''She had 25 years of things to do,'' said her son Barron.
Under her tenure, and with large infusions of money from Ted Field, the Hollywood financier who is Ms. Fanning's son from her first marriage, the newspaper continued to thrive.
In addition to Ms. Hazelton of Los Angeles, she is survived by another daughter, Cavana Lee-Hampel of Berlin; a son, Ruomi Lee-Hampel of New York; and a grandson.
      
She is also survived by their daughters, Elizabeth Lopukhin, Olga Poloukhine and Xenia Kalinin; their son, George; 11 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
''
        She is survived by a son, Michael Ross, of Occidental, Calif.
      
In a recent interview, Anura, the Bandaranaike's youngest child and only son, said their father had been the affectionate, demonstrative parent while their mother was aloof.
Her son, Anura, 51, who lives  next to his mother's home in the family compound, went over to the family's despised rival, the United National Party, after his sister, now 55, won the right to succeed their mother.
But both the son, as a leader of the opposition, and the daughter, as president, have carried on the family's political tradition.
      
The couple had a son, Jimmy, and after the divorce Ms. Verdon left him in the care of her parents and resumed her career.
She is also survived by her son, Jimmy Henaghan of Los Angeles; four grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
Surviving are her husband, Nathan; a son, Steven, of Albany, Calif.; two grandchildren; and two sisters, Ruth Forsyth of New Orleans and Florence Marx of Bogalusa, La.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Brook Ashley of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a son, Brockman Seawell of New York; two brothers, Hubert F. Rawls Jr. of Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Richard Russell Rawls of Fernandina Beach, Fla.; a sister, Dorothy Louise Rawls Tuttle of California; a granddaughter; and two great-grandchildren.
      
; a son, Michael, of Oakland, Calif.; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to Ms. Carter, Mrs. Dyk is survived by her son, Timothy, of Washington, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
; a son, Michael, of Oakland, Calif.; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by two daughters, Viviana Basantes and Norma Lopez Hernandez (Ms. Lopez helped Ms. Hernandez direct the company in recent years); a son, Jose Luis Martinez; and a grandson, Salvador Lopez, also with the company.
      
Mrs. Sanger is survived by a son, Kenneth E. Sanger, of White Plains,  three grandchildren, and four great-grandsons.
      
But Ms. Brooks's novel was overshadowed by her achievements as a poet and invidiously compared with Richard Wright's ''Native Son'' and Ralph Ellison's ''Invisible Man,'' epic novels with clear-cut socio-political themes.
Her survivors include a daughter, Nora Brooks Blakely, and a son, Henry Blakely.
''
        Ms. Windsor is survived by her husband, Jack Rodney Hupp; her son, Richard Hupp; a brother, Jerry Bertelsen; and a sister, Louise Atherley.
She is survived by three daughters: Mary-Anne Martin, Susanna Martin and Colette Wilde, and a son, Charles.
      
; a son, Dr. Henry T. Ireys of Baltimore; and five grandsons.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Simon.
The case turned into a legal and emotional crucible for her, her son and daughter, her mother and three teachers, as well as the accusing parents.
It started in August 1983 when a mother called the police to say that her 2 1/2-year-old son had been molested at the school.
On the basis of testimony from children and doctors but little corroborating evidence, a grand jury in March 1984 indicted Mrs. Buckey; her son, Raymond; her daughter, Peggy Ann Buckey; her mother, Virginia McMartin, who founded the school; and three teachers.
Days later, even the prosecution termed the evidence against all but Mrs. Buckey and her son ''incredibly weak.
'' By then she had spent two years behind bars before raising bail and her son had spent five.
Mrs. Buckey's survivors include her husband, Charles, and her son and daughter.
She is survived by her son and daughter, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Her son, William Dowell, said she hated both the plains and the plainness of the Midwest, greedily devouring The New Yorker magazine as if it were ''an escape manual.
Mr. Dowell, who envisioned her as a movie star, said she must do it, their son, William, said.
But her son described a woman who furnished her elegant apartment with things she bought at flea markets.
In addition to her husband, her son and her daughter Christina, she is survived by another daughter, Holly Schulte Ellison, and four grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
Mrs. Aresty is survived by a son, Robert, and a daughter, Jane Silverman, both of Princeton; and three grandchildren.
But Ms. Brooks's novel was overshadowed by her achievements as a poet and invidiously compared with Richard Wright's ''Native Son'' and Ralph Ellison's ''Invisible Man,'' epic novels with clear-cut socio-political themes.
She is survived by a daughter, Nora Brooks Blakely, of Chicago; a son, Henry Blakely III; and one grandchild.
She is survived by a daughter, Jane Wilkens Michael, a son, Hugh Levey, and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son from an earlier marriage, John P. Treadwell of Chevy Chase, Md.
