
        Amy M. Spindler, the former fashion critic of The New York Times and style editor of its magazine, whose knowledge and fierce opinions held the world's leading designers to task and helped to raise the standard of fashion writing, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
''
        Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue, whom Ms. Spindler regarded as a competitor when she became style editor of The Times Magazine, in 1998, said: ''She took criticism in a new direction.
In the fall of 1998, after recovering from that cancer, she took the job of style editor of The Times Magazine, bringing a cultural vibrancy to the pages that had not existed before.
She continued to supervise the coverage in the style sections and supplements of the magazine until last summer.
In November, she relinquished that post and was named critic at large for culture and style.
Impressed by the aplomb with which she switched her various roles, as well as with her singing style, Mr. Polan invited her to America.
The abstract painting and drawing style she eventually developed, with its gridded geometric forms filled with finely worked calligraphic lines, suggested the patterns of woven fabric and stitchwork, as well as densely written musical notation and micrography.
''One of the first things I learned in television was the necessity of varying the style of the dancing each week,'' she said in an interview in 1953.
Though its circulation never reached higher than four figures, it lasted for 187 issues and played a significant role in the development of the 60's folk style.
They chose songs with strong leftist politics and a direct style, and stated their aims in the first issue with a quotation from Woody Guthrie that ''a good song can only do good.
Standing about nine feet high and constructed of separate pieces so that horizontal seams were visible, these massive men and women were rendered in a simplified, cartoonish style, the men in generic suits and ties, the women in simple, 50's-style dresses and old-fashioned hairdos.
''
        But as the creator of works like ''On the Brink of Time'' (1969), ''Kinaesonata'' (1970) and ''Greening'' (1976), she favored a cooler choreographic style.
From 1929 to 1933 the two women collaboratively produced advertising, still lifes and studio portraits that reflected the energetic, experimental style of their mentor, Walter Peterhans, a professional photographer who taught at the legendary Bauhaus design school.
Her literary model was Graham Greene, whose dark portrayal of the early days of the American war in Vietnam influenced her articles and her style.
Published by Random House in 1996, ''Ants on the Melon'' received wide attention, partly because of Ms. Adair's personal story (a retired English professor, by then blind from glaucoma, she had written poetry all her life but had published little since the 1940's) and partly for the unaffected style and universal themes of her work.

        Lynn Manulis, a retailer of luxury fashion who dressed a generation of the world's most socially prominent women in classic style while attiring their daughters in the work of bold young designers whose reputations she helped make, died on Sunday in Lantana, Fla.
        She was 85.
Writing in The New York Times in 1994, Jennifer Dunning praised the ''playful, robust'' style of Dance Consort in Weidman's ''Brahms Waltzes.
Ms. Truitt completed her studies in 1949, but though she continued to make art throughout the 50's, it was not until 1961, a year after the birth of her third and last child, that she began to produce sculpture in her own style.
She advocated an aesthetic approach to the study of culture, championing style over content.
Interlaced with epigrams from Oscar Wilde, that essay illuminated a particular modern sensibility -- one that had been largely the province of gay culture -- which centered deliciously on artifice, exaggeration and the veneration of style.
Championing Style Over Content
        In 1966 Ms. Sontag published her first essay collection, ''Against Interpretation.
'' That book's title essay, in which she argued that art should be experienced viscerally rather than cerebrally, helped cement her reputation as a champion of style over content.
In the essay ''On Style,'' published in the same volume, Ms. Sontag offended many readers by upholding the films of Leni Riefenstahl as masterworks of aesthetic form, with little regard for their content.
Ms. Shahn, who began her career as a writer, printmaker and illustrator, was best known in recent decades for her paintings, which critics described as simultaneously realistic and mysterious in style.
While there she became aware of Abstract Expressionism, the modern style that she felt most in tune with, partly because its artists were of her generation; she and Jackson Pollock were born in the same year.
During the decade she spent there, she developed a fully abstract style based on tight grids and repetitive linear marks.
