A critically praised New York solo show at Terry Dintenfass in 1992 included paintings of family, friends and pets, living and dead, surrounded by glowing flowers, all done in a distinctive, luminous style.

        Peggy Lee, whose sultry singing style set standards for pop jazz sophistication for more than half a century, died on Monday night at her home in Los Angeles.
From 1976 to 1996, she was the co-director of the Deborah Carr Theater Dance Ensemble, whose repertory included works by Humphrey and Weidman, where she coached the performers on the Humphrey-Weidman style and dances.
In Mr. Naharin's works, the eloquence of Ms. Kajiwara's humanity was seen within a more experimental style.
For years, beginning in the 1960's, she largely set the magazine's look, style and content.
''
        Her extravagant style also prompted outrage.
The group captain's heroism -- he shot down 11 German planes -- was coupled with a low-key style that appealed to the king.
'' She herself was an exemplar of style, and was described by her peers as ''a truly intellectual designer'' and ''a creator of timeless fashion'' in ready-to-wear clothes.
'' For years, a silver streak intersected her simple hair style, but gradually she allowed the streak to evolve into a blend of salt sprinkled with pepper.
She interspersed information about fabric and style with somewhat Rabelaisian humor.
She was one of the first hostesses to set a formal table but to have guests follow her into the kitchen to pick up their second courses buffet style.
'' She herself was an exemplar of style, and was described by her peers as ''a truly intellectual designer'' and ''a creator of timeless fashion'' in ready-to-wear clothes.
She interspersed information about fabric and style with somewhat Rabelaisian humor.
She originally gained recognition as one of the first women to paint in the Realist style, favoring the informal composition and contemporary subject matter typical of the movement.
But Mrs. Castro retained a homey style.
In her groups with the saxophonists Eddie  Davis, known as Lockjaw, and Stanley Turrentine, to whom she was married for a number of years, Ms. Scott produced some of the most influential recordings in the smoother, more pop-oriented soul-jazz style.

        Lakshmi Knight, a dancer and teacher of Indian classical dance who performed widely in the United States in the style specifically associated with her mother, the great dancer Balasaraswati, died in Chennai, India, on Dec. 23.
Although Bharata Natyam, the Indian classical dance form that is best known today, has many exponents, the style of Bharata Natyam that Lakshmi inherited was part of the repertory and forms codified by her ancestors as court performers in the early 1800's.
The use of improvisation to interpret poetic texts sung during a Bharata Natyam performance was the hallmark of Balasaraswati's style.
But Mrs. Castro retained a homey style.
Her beauty was untarnished (and unvarnished), even late in her life, and she also retained her sense of style and on occasion was featured in fashion articles.
Ayengar and K. Pattabhi Jois, both men, she took his essential teachings and built a style of yoga accessible to Westerners.
''She was never interested in a realistic style of acting,'' said Manuel Puig, the Argentine author, in 1990.
She was one of gospel's great performers, regularly stirring crowds into a frenzy with her intense vocalizations and animated physical style.
''They were way overdue for a good, entertaining story that broke away from the old style of writing.
She rejected a request to bring her Nancy Drew style to bear on drug abuse and other social problems.
The up-and-coming boxer Walker Smith Jr. -- soon to be nicknamed Sugar Ray Robinson after his borrowed identification card and smooth fighting style -- could not help noticing the preening young woman as she sauntered poolside.
She encouraged his natty style and shared his penchant for flash as they spent and gave away Mr. Robinson's $4 million in winnings.
In 1946, Rosemary Clooney made her first solo recording, ''I'm Sorry I Didn't Say I'm Sorry When I Made You Cry Last Night,'' which attracted attention because she sang it in a whisper that disk jockeys all around the country speculated was was going to be the new style.
''
        Ms. Knapp developed her style in her years as a columnist at The Boston Phoenix, an alternative weekly newspaper where she worked from 1988 to 1995 and to which she continued to contribute until 1999.
In 1946 Rosemary Clooney made her first solo recording, ''I'm Sorry I Didn't Say I'm Sorry When I Made You Cry Last Night,'' which attracted attention because she sang it in a whisper that disk jockeys speculated was going to be the new style.
In the grainy black-and-white pictures, which included titles like ''A Taste of Flesh,'' she defined a quirky personal style: bizarre cutaways to ashtrays, lamps and squirrels; suggestive lesbian subplots and gratuitous nudity and violence.
Though she was best known for staging new work, she directed many classic plays, usually in a rough style that emphasized their immediacy and topicality.
''All act not only with color and style, but with insight,'' he wrote.
''
        After a while, admirers stopped trying to figure out how she developed her style.

        Quita Brodhead, a painter of colorful figurative and abstract paintings for more than 80 years, died on Sept. 4 in Bryn Mawr, Pa. She was 101 and lived in Wayne, Pa.
        She had a vibrant style that continued to evolve through her life.
The variety of dance forms she had studied helped make her an instrument for the development of Cole's eclectic style.
The chronicle was written in a dry, telegraphic style, and defended all repressed groups, from Pentecostal believers to Jewish refuseniks, Russian Orthodox priests, Georgian nationalists, deported Crimean Tatars, and intellectuals and religious believers in the Baltic republics.
Her style roamed the geography of Mexico, memory and mood in a manner that the critic Anatole Broyard in The New York Times said carried ''echoes of Gabriel García Márquez, Katherine Anne Porter and even Graham Greene.
''
        Ms. Enseki's style ''may seem very low-key, but she is passionate about working to get visibility for her museum,'' said Martin Gomez, who came to know her in the seven years he was director of the Brooklyn Public Library.
