This resulted in ''Brownstone Facade,'' a mystery romance in the style and tone of her beloved Wharton set on the Upper East Side of Manhattan in 1920.
Grommets were arranged in the back of one style so that the glove could almost have served as a set of brass knuckles.
Her classic designs for Coach in the early 1960's were the shoulder bag and what was called the Basic, a smaller clutch style with a removable shoulder strap.
''
        ''The Shortest Way to Hades''  (1985) and ''The Sirens Sang of Murder'' (1989) continued in the same elegantly mannered style, with stories bound up in arcane areas of British law and steeped in obscure allusions to classical literature.
The incisiveness of her legal points won her admirers among members of the profession, including Robert Bork (who was once quoted as saying, ''In my opinion, there can't be too many Sarah Caudwell novels''), while the gleeful savagery of her satiric style made her a darling of the critics.
Those few words summed up a style that was similarly cryptic and to the point, and that reduced the world to a series of simple, blocky shapes and angled planes of clear, ringing color, all dispatched with a crisp, unfettered directness that allowed no reworking.
It was a style that was at once cool and celebratory, and Ms. Matthiasdottir deployed it evenhandedly.
Yet Ms. Matthiasdottir's style took root in Iceland before the war.
Ms. Matthiasdottir developed a style that merged the post-Impressionism of Edvard Munch with the palette of Fauvism, as well as the influences of less well-known Scandinavian modernists.
Her second Caldecott, in 1980, was for paintings for Donald Hall's ''Ox-Cart Man'' that were in a distinctive primitive folk art style.
She was 86 and lived in Hoosick Falls, N.Y.
        Ms. Fine composed in a style that evolved gracefully over the years.
Pain was rarely absent from her work, but her style was abstract, not literal, focused on the essence of deep feeling.
Her movement style was known for its passages of hopeless running in place, silent screams, accusatory stares and sudden falls.
''
        In 1949 he choreographed ''Bourree Fantasque,'' whose final exuberant section exploited the vitality and virtuosity that made up Ms. Reed's trademark style.
In an essay Mrs. de Regniers explained the deceptively simple style of her children's books, saying that ''a book for young people that honestly has its roots in the author's feelings as a child is not likely to seem old-fashioned or out of date.
Her use of color clashed with the prevailing style of retouched black-and-white studio portraits, but she persevered, saying that color was ''closer to life.
''
        Her narrative style provided ample cement for such dialogue.
And although much of the attention at the Costume Institute's ''Rock Style'' gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art last December was focused on fashion nabobs like Tom Ford of Gucci and Donatella Versace, it was Ms. Battle of Brooklyn who designed the wraps worn by Naomi Campbell, Iman, Lynn Whitfield and Mary J. Blige, who had on a turquoise fur chubby.
Her custom-made designs, often dyed in colors like champagne, burgundy and green, projected a high urban style -- what Mr. Talley called ''a ghetto fabulousness'' -- that not only appealed to Ms. Battle's celebrated clientele but also evoked the 1970's in fashion.
By good fortune, the prevailing style of the moment was High Ethnic.
Clients at her Moroccan-inspired shop on Greek Street in London included not only rock stars but also members of a nascent jet set whose style reflected their newfound nomadism.
According to the reference work ''Contemporary Authors,'' a critic named W. H. Archer praised Mr. Hall's ''Rose for Mrs. Lincoln: A Biography of Mary Todd Lincoln'' (Beacon Press, 1970), calling it ''scrupulously researched'' and written in ''a charmingly premeditated style.
Each word must have meaning and be written in a fine literary style.
But it was her diatribe against the International style that proved a turning point in her career.
It virtually equated the style with communism, or at least a foreign architectural invasion, and warned people not to be sure that ''it can't happen here.

        Paula Yates,  a British television personality known for her outrageously flirtatious interviewing style and for her relationships with the rock stars Bob Geldof and Michael Hutchence, was found dead at home here on Sunday.
Many remarked at the time on Ms. Peters's informal off-camera style,  avoiding Hollywood night life and the networking scene in the studio commissary for private picnics with her hairdresser and makeup artist on the floor of a dark set.
(In 1989 she and Mr. Blake  recorded a duet album in the same style, ''You Stepped Out of a Cloud.
'')
        In her other vocal style, Ms. Lee approached words as sounds; this voice was harsh and booming, and she used her teeth, lips and tongue to wring drama out of each syllable, presaging singers like Diamanda Galas.
They also noticed -- and most applauded -- a sharper colloquial style that was emerging in poems like ''We Real Cool'' from ''The Bean Eaters'':
        We real cool.
They also noticed -- and most applauded -- a sharper colloquial style that was emerging in poems like ''We Real Cool'' from ''The Bean Eaters'':
        We real cool.
