A painter in the modern style for 25 years, she was a founding board member of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Skowhegan, Me.
Wrote for Radio and Films
        British critics often described Ms. Carter's writing style as "magic realism," but she believed the label was not quite accurate.
The New Yorker film critic Pauline Kael once complained that Dennis "has made an acting style of postnasal drip," an assessment Ms. Dennis herself said was correct and had worked to change.
The New Yorker film critic Pauline Kael once complained that Ms. Dennis "has made an acting style of postnasal drip," an assessment Ms. Dennis herself said was correct and worked to change.
Her book "Figleaf" (Lippincott, 1960) punctured the fashion industry with a glossary of garment gab that defined exclusive as "a product offered to the broadest possible mass market" and timeless as "a style that remains fashionable for more than one season.
In her own work, she specialized in ceramic pots, vases, bowls and plates in an Art Deco style.
Hers was the expansive, emotional style that would have been restricted by the colder performances tailored to the realism of Broadway.
Mr. Olney, whose book, "Simple French Food," (reprinted by Macmillan in 1992) also had a remarkable impact on American cooking, said Mrs. David's writing style, the lack of specificity in her recipes, did not appeal to American publishers, and delayed her fame in this country.
The Group infused its work with new psychological insights, naturalistic style and political content.
The Group infused its work with new psychological insights, naturalistic style and political content.
J. R. S. Fincham of Edinburgh, Scotland, writing in the Aug. 20 issue of Nature, a British science journal, said that Dr. McClintock's "solitary style of work, total independence of thought and extraordinary record of getting things right have elevated her to the status of a prophet in the eyes of some.
Ms. Colwin's writing won praise for its intelligence, wit and style.
Ms. Colwin's writing won praise for its intelligence, wit and style.
The new style she was developing, she told her pupils, was based on the proposition that "emotionally the German dance is basically subjective and the American dance is objective.
" In the past, she had often deplored the highly commercialized Broadway theater, the growing cult of the director and what she termed the "thoughtless, naturalistic" style of most American actors.
For many years Miss Adler lived in a spacious apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan that she had decorated in elegant Italian Renaissance style.
As a member of a group of artists known as the Grosvenor School, she used the technique to create boldly patterned images, usually of urban life, in a style influenced by Cubism, Futurism and Vorticism.
Arriving in South Africa in 1931, she settled in Durban, married a dentist, and "threw herself into the life style of a socialite," as The Weekly Mail of Johannesburg said in 1986.

        Kay Boyle, a short-story writer and novelist renowned for her deft and powerful style and her keen insights into human nature, died on Sunday night at the Redwoods, a retirement community in Mill Valley, Calif. She was 90 years old and lived at the Redwoods, where she had moved from San Francisco several years ago.
The Lady as Radical
        The writer Stephen Vincent Benet once described Miss Boyle's style as being "as bright as an icicle and light as the bones of a bird.
A Change in Style
        In 1938, the lyricist Lorenz Hart came to the rescue, offering her the role of a cynical countess in "I Married an Angel" on Broadway.
