Her first novel, ''Elements of Style,'' is to be published by Knopf in April.
Part anthropological survey, part marriage manual, ''Open Marriage: A New Life Style for Couples'' caused a sensation in the United States and abroad when it was published in 1972.

        Ann Calvello, whose bad-girl attitude, madcap makeup, polka-dot hair and savage style of play made her a legend in the flamboyantly indecorous sport-cum-circus that is roller derby, died on Tuesday at a hospital near her home in San Bruno, Calif. She was 76.
She could sing madrigals, play the lute and eat with her fingers off a trencher in the proper medieval style.
''She has plenty of voice when she chooses to open up in operatic style.
''
        With her mordant humor and tart style, Ms. Moore was sometimes compared to another California writer, Joan Didion.

        Anna Castelli Ferrieri, a pioneering architect associated with the postwar period of Italian modern design, known for its embrace of technological innovation and audacious style, died on Thursday at her home in Milan.
Their iconoclastic brio and intuitive elegance became the signature of the Italian modern style.
Her death was confirmed by Michael Henry Adams, a curator at the Museum of the City of New York, where she is among those to be featured in an exhibition called ''Black Style Now,'' opening on Sept. 7.
' ''
        Correction:  July 26, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Dorothea T. Church, the first successful black model in Paris, gave an outdated date for the opening of an exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York, ''Black Style Now,'' in which she will be featured.
In one entry, she tells how Schoenberg, an Austrian émigré she called Uncle Arnold, criticized her string-quartet style as ''too pianistic.
She continued to write in dialect, following in the footsteps of the well-known Jamaican poet Claude McKay, although he only flirted with the style.
''
        Ms. Uhnak (pronounced YOU-nak) combined vibrant elements of her native New York, long experience as a police officer and a hard-boiled literary style that some compared to Hammett's or Chandler's in nine books of fiction and one of nonfiction.
Carol Cleveland, in The St. James Guide to Crime and Mystery Writers, noted her ''copious, pounding style that forces the reader to be involved.
Beloit's current president, John E. Burris, said that Miss Peterson's ''down-to-earth style, mixed with congenial good humor, worked well for Beloit at a time when severe personnel and fiscal decisions were necessary.
But she will be remembered as much for a quiet, effective style that made her a trusted adviser in the executive suite.
In her prime, she possessed a radiant lyric soprano voice, impressive technical agility and exceptional understanding of style.

        Melissa Hayden, one of American ballet's greatest ballerinas, whose exultant, dramatic style defied the supposed impersonal mold of the ''Balanchine dancer,'' making her one of New York City Ballet's first international stars, died yesterday at her home in Winston-Salem, N.C. She was 83.
Anyone who saw her in Balanchine's step-packed Tchaikovsky ballet ''Allegro Brillante'' could be stunned by her outpouring of energetic classical style.
When Ms. Sinatra released her anthem of women's empowerment in 1966, she was shown in film made for early video jukeboxes wearing the style from Herbert Levine.
Written in a straightforward, unpretentious style, the book is full of innocent pastimes -- boating on the lake, Cokes at the corner drugstore -- mingled with more grown-up pleasures like beer and cigarettes.
She helped popularize and set the standard for the pseudoclassical style of dance widely used in the Indian cinema.
She had a life of hard work, hard luck, determination, audacity and style.

        Anita O'Day, whose coolly ebullient and rhythmically assured vocal style made her a premier singer of both the big-band and postwar jazz eras, and whose taste for fast living secured her name as one of jazz's toughest survivors, died yesterday in Los Angeles.
''
        Pointing out that her acting style was often described as ''quirky,'' Ms. Shelly once said that ''when you read 'quirky' over and over again, 'quirky' starts to feel like an insult.
Her stylistic hallmarks changed radically through the years: in the 1940s and 1950s she sometimes drew themes from Russian folk music, and, like Shostakovich, had both a public style, for concert works and film scores filled with the grand gestures that pleased the Soviet regime, and a more introspective private style in which she expressed herself more directly.
Her stylistic hallmarks changed radically through the years: in the 1940s and 1950s she sometimes drew themes from Russian folk music, and, like Shostakovich, had both a public style, for concert works and film scores filled with the grand gestures that pleased the Soviet regime, and a more introspective private style in which she expressed herself more directly.
In the 1960s, though, she abandoned the public style entirely, and in the 1970s she became drawn to religious symbolism and biblical texts, though she is said not to have been particularly religious.
