''
        Other signature songs included ''On the Sunny Side of the Street,'' ''I'm Gonna Sit Right Down and Write Myself a Letter,'' ''Sweet Georgia Brown'' and ''They Raided the Joint and Took Everybody Down but Me,'' all sung in a rhythmically charged style that combined the insinuation of the bawdy blues with taut jazz phrasing.
For more than a decade she worked primarily in a gestural style influenced by Hofmann and other Abstract Expressionists, including Arshile Gorky and Mark Rothko, whom she met in New York.
That style, which she explored for the rest of her life and eventually translated into sculpture, gave expression to her draftsmanship and encouraged her sense of color.

        Angela Taylor, a former feature writer in the Style department of The New York Times who specialized in beauty and fashion, died on Wednesday at the Riverhead Nursing Home in Riverhead, L.I.
Sometimes her style mimicked fashion illustration to comment on society's depiction of women.
Her influence on newspapers can be seen today in the creation of life style sections, consumer news and entertainment guides published by many newspapers as well as lists of resources for readers that often accompany feature articles.
When Ms. Marchowsky presented her own choreography in the 1940's, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, said her work was rooted in the Graham style of the 1930's but, as he wrote in 1948, there were ''many moments of individual creativeness.

        Helen Bernstein, a former president of the Los Angeles teachers union known for her forceful style and dogged support of higher standards for students and a decentralized administration, died here Thursday night.
With her uninhibited, note-bending vocal wail, she also helped introduce the rhythm-and-blues-influenced style known as ''blue-eyed soul,'' so named because it was popularized by white singers imitating black role models.
With its abrupt changes of tempo and style and its fiercely emotional singing, the record was unlike anything that had been heard in pop music, and it laid the groundwork for a female-dominated genre of quirky, reflective songwriting that continues to this day.
On her next two albums, ''New York Tendaberry'' (1969) and ''Christmas and the Beads of Sweat'' (1970), Ms. Nyro retreated somewhat from the boundary-breaking experimentalism of ''Eli'' and settled into her characteristic style, which remained eclectic but had its strongest roots in the Philadelphia pop-soul sound of songwriters like Thom Bell, Kenneth Gamble and Leon Huff, and Todd Rundgren.
Her International Style town house on East 70th Street, designed by the Swiss architect William Lescaze in the early 1940's, was, in the decades after World War II, a place were one might meet Aaron Copland, Ralph Ellison, John Marin, Harold Clurman, Allen Ginsberg or the Rev.
Shortly thereafter she took up painting, moving quickly from watercolors to oils and developing her own style.

        Sanjukta Panigrahi, a classical dancer from India who toured the United States as a foremost exponent of the Orissi style, died on June 24 at her home in Bhubaneshwar in the Indian state of Orissa.
The Orissi dance style, distinguished by a curved silhouette based on carved temple figures, was much less known throughout India and the world than the Bharata Natyam style from Madras when Sanjukta began performing it in the 1950's.
The Orissi dance style, distinguished by a curved silhouette based on carved temple figures, was much less known throughout India and the world than the Bharata Natyam style from Madras when Sanjukta began performing it in the 1950's.
Consumer groups, however, never became very powerful in Japan, a nation that sacrificed its consumers' life style to build its industry.
As the prosperous owner of a store in Arles, he was able to support her in style, and she never had to work.
Once a girl in frilly modest-maiden dresses and a modified bowl haircut, she had become a fashionplate with annual expenses of more than $1.2 million, a woman whose every style change influenced the way women around the well dressed world appeared.
''The Connection,'' filmed in cinema verite style in 1960 and taken from Jack Gelber's Off Broadway play, was a frank study of drug addiction that was banned on grounds of obscenity by the motion picture division of the New York State Board of Regents.
But unlike Gert, who created scathing portraits of the dregs of society, Miss Goslar developed a gentle and more compassionate style.
Ms. Gunning was known for her strong speaking style, clear arguments and intense community involvement as she became a founder of the state Conservative Party and the first woman to run for citywide office, in 1965, for City Council President on a ticket headed by William F. Buckley Jr. in the mayoral slot.
She wrote of dogs and all manner of living things in a characteristic style, weaving the romance and history of mankind's association with the animal world into her illustrated texts.
''She was highly opinionated, extremely self-confident, had a fantastic sense of humor and was someone of enormous style and taste,'' said Jeffrey Katzenberg, one of the partners of Dreamworks SKG, and an early mentor of Ms. Steel's at Paramount, along with Michael Eisner and Barry Diller.
Ms. Steel's skill as an executive was sometimes overshadowed by a reputation for an abrasive, take-no-prisoners style.
Michiko Kakutani described Ms. Acker's style in a 1987 review in The New York Times: ''Characters exchange identities with the ease of snakes shedding their skins; and bits of myths, folk tales and older novels also turn up transformed -- juxtaposed, in a sort of post-modernist collage, with political screeds, dream-like hallucinations and strange, comic exchanges.
She was tall, about 5 feet 10 inches, and she wore her long braided gray hair in a distinctive upsweep on the top of her head, a style described by her children as a ''Gretchen braid.
''
        The judge, in an interview, acknowledged that her style can be quite direct.
''
        It is part of your style?
