She was noted for her spare, modern style and worked on interiors at the Museum of Modern Art and the International Arrivals Building at Kennedy International Airport.
Miss Muir developed a personal style that changed very little.
In her own business she was able to develop the style of clothing that appealed to women as diverse as Princess Alexandra, Lady Antonia Fraser, Glenda Jackson, Lauren Bacall and Joanna Lumley, the co-star of the British comedy "Absolutely Fabulous," who once worked as a Jean Muir model.
"
        Mrs. Kaplan was known for her great style as a hostess, entertaining at her homes in New York City and East Hampton, L.I.
"
        Among the buildings shielded as a result of the survey by Mrs. Tholl was the 282-year-old Steuben House, a mansion of Bergen County sandstone in Dutch Colonial style in River Edge.

        Anne Tabachnick, a figurative artist whose painterly style was inspired by Matisse, died on Tuesday at her home in Greenwich Village.
Miss Andrews was a teen-ager when she, her older sister, LaVerne, who died in 1967, and her younger sister, Patty, formed the trio whose close-voiced, enthusiastic style became the vocal parallel of the big bands of the swing era.
The sisters' singing style came naturally to them.
What set Mrs. Goodman's books apart was a combination of her sharp insights and her elegant, accessible style.
She and Mr. Ziegler met as undergraduates and began working together in 1978, developing a style that featured provocative accumulations of materials and ideas, many of them involved with architecture, American history and the economy.

        Nancy LaMott, a cabaret singer and recording artist whose unadorned, heartfelt interpretations of songs epitomized the best of what could be called an all-American style of traditional pop singing, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
But her style was transformed when she studied with pupils of the pioneering modern-dance choreographer Rudolf von Laban, whose theories helped her make her dancing emotionally eloquent as well as technically brilliant.
Mrs. Houlton favored a rhapsodic choreographic style that combined ballet with various modern-dance techniques.
The couple, in their smooth, seemingly effortless style, spun gossamer fantasies from the infectious scores of Irving Berlin, George Gershwin, Jerome Kern, Cole Porter and Vincent Youmans.
When rock stars like Janis Joplin and Grace Slick began exchanging jeans for Mrs. Harp's fringed vests and tie-dyed velvet dresses, the Holly's Harp shop that she opened on Sunset Boulevard in 1968 became the center of a new style.
Miss Fischer was a pianist who played with an intensity of concentration and focus that seemed almost at odds with the poetry and impetuousness of her interpretive style.
