''
        Over the years, Mrs. Smith wrote, Mr. Paley's wife had an impact on him -- ''her political leanings, appetite for news, taste in art and sense of style.
That she was  known to many largely because of  her marriage to Ernest Hemingway, from 1940 to 1945, caused her unending irritation, especially when critics tried to find parallels between her lean writing style and that of her more celebrated husband.
By the early 1930's she was working in a Social Realist style that with adjustments would be the mainstay of her work.
The studies have established the basis for others that have found that a change in life style, like quitting smoking and controlling high blood pressure through proper diet and exercise, can improve longevity.
''The two women were simply too strong and too different in personal style and social preferences,'' Mr. Grafton wrote.

        Beatrice Wood, a ceramic artist known as much for her irreverent quips, beauty, bohemian life style and famous lovers as for her luminous luster-glaze chalices, and who  inspired at least two movie characters, died on Thursday at her home in Ojai, Calif. She had celebrated her 105th birthday on March 3.
Mr. Farber drew many Democrats who resented Mr. Farbstein's humiliation or were simply put off by Ms. Abzug's style.
She won the primary in a burst of the old, ebullient campaigning style, but lost in November to Joseph J. DioGuardi, the Republican incumbent.
By  1946 the band was back together, electrifying their instruments as well as their wardrobe, hiring the Hollywood tailor Nathan Turk to dress them in an outrageous version of the singing-cowboy style: spangles, embroidered satin shirts, bell-bottom pants, short Eisenhower jackets and personalized cowboy boots.
1 hits in 1968 -- ''Stand By Your Man,'' ''Take Me To Your World'' and ''D-I-V-O-R-C-E'' -- established both her public image and her style, concentrating on weepers about holding a marriage together and unending love.
1 hits she had in 1968 -- ''Stand By Your Man,'' ''Take Me to Your World'' and ''D-I-V-O-R-C-E'' -- established both her public image and her style, concentrating on weepers about holding a marriage together or declaring her unending love.
''Her trademark style has filled our hearts and made her a legend,'' President Clinton said yesterday.
It was during this period that she developed her performance style.
Apart from taking Saturday classes at the Art Students League in Manhattan in 1919, when she was 10, Ms. MacIver was self-taught, a fact perhaps reflected in her eclectic, highly personal style.

        Sybil Connolly, who designed the linen dress that Jacqueline Kennedy wore in her White House portrait and who elevated Irish style to high fashion, died on Wednesday at her home in Dublin.
She studied in Paris for a year and produced one of her most widely exhibited paintings, ''Les Fetiches'' (1938), an image of five African masks rendered in a  modernist style.
Despite her brushes with scandal, Ms. Brezhnev retained her privileges and comfortable life style.
A charming, single-minded visionary, Ms. Bedi enjoyed telling the story of how she began performing Odissi, a style of Indian classical dance.
Following his style, she collected anecdotes and how-to case histories for a book she wrote, ''How to Help Your Husband Get Ahead in his Social and Business Life,'' published in 1953.
Mrs. Carnegie had a casual working style.
''We were dazzled by her speed, humbled by her talent and captivated by her style,'' President Clinton said yesterday, praising Griffith Joyner's work with disadvantaged children.
About a decade after beginning her recording career, Ms. Carter refined her originality into a style that became the template for modern jazz singing.
In 1957, she recorded with Wynton Kelly and other peers; her work was irregular partly because her style was more jazz than cabaret, and partly because she tried to avoid  the abusive working situations that have plagued jazz.
Through the 1960's Ms. Carter struggled with her career, recording with Roulette Records in the late 1960's, during which the avant-garde and pop music rendered some artists identified with an older style commercially irrelevant.
In a singing career that spanned more than 35 years and two continents, Ms. Julien became a beloved figure to French-speaking audiences who were touched by her stirring performances and forceful style.
A food expert by avocation, she was a news assistant and recipe tester in the style department of The New York Times for the last 10 years.
Yet for all her popularity, she showed little interest in a glamorous life style.
Ms. Blau studied the Bharatya Natyam style in Madras with Guru Chockalingam Pillai in 1954 and became an authority on the highly theatrical Kathakali style after studying with Guru Ravunni Nair in Malabar.
Ms. Blau studied the Bharatya Natyam style in Madras with Guru Chockalingam Pillai in 1954 and became an authority on the highly theatrical Kathakali style after studying with Guru Ravunni Nair in Malabar.
She was, Ms. Howe said, ''a woman of enormous style, heart, experience, courage, intelligence -- a real original.
