Her luminously elegant style, the freshness of her long-legged wit and her mysterious dramatic perfume had attracted an adoring public.
By herself, she more than kept up the bakery's style.
Mrs. Buck was also admired for her personal style, with some likening her upswept hair, smoky voice and quick wit to those of Lauren Bacall, who bought her children's birthday cakes at Cake Masters.
Anna Kisselgoff of The Times praised it for allowing its young women to ''show off a brilliant clarity and detail in their footwork'' and ''dance with a pure classical style.
She was prominent in the London season, where she was praised for her range and the mix of sweep and bravura in her classical style.
''
        Her style offstage was down to earth and no-nonsense, and she used language too vivid to be called plain-spoken; she described one colleague as ''so ugly she could take a stick and break day.
Yet her signature style was not dramatic and narrative.
She blended the cultivation of a Broadway soprano with a more intimate cabaret style defined by Mabel Mercer.
In his Times review, Mr. Atkinson said that Ms. Straight acted ''with force, sensitivity and old-fashioned charm, in a style that Henry James would have been compelled to applaud.
She was known for her pleasant interviewing style.
Her interview style was breezy.
She was known for her pleasant interviewing style.
Her style was breezy.
Mrs. Wirth was known for building the Hassler Hotel's image as a home for visiting travelers, introducing a personal management style in which every member of the staff was required to know the hotel guests by name.
A saucy, impertinent Style section appeared that would soon be imitated by competitors but never matched.
Mr. Bradlee's brassy style galvanized his staff and invigorated his publisher.
And they often did, thanks to her kindly, conversational style.
'' Olin Downes, reviewing the performance in The New York Times, wrote that ''she interpreted the Aida part with a complete grasp of its dramatic and lyrical elements, prevailingly with beauty and color of tone, with ample sonority and with the style of a musician.
Her seductive writing style bred a legion of acolytes, known as Paulettes.
Assessing her impact in a 1998 interview, Ms. Kael said: ''I think my influence was largely in style, not substance.
The Olsons, who were married four years ago, complemented each other in style.
Billie Holiday was the most obvious and famous precedent for her style, and she was capable of astonishingly close Holiday impersonations, though she rarely let her audiences hear them.
Johnson's group played in a common vernacular jazz style of the 40's -- a mixture of rhythm-and-blues and jump blues -- and, as a second-tier group not as popular as the likes of Basie, Ellington and Eckstine, the band toured black-only clubs and auditoriums throughout the country.
In performance they developed a conversational style of answering each other's lines.
Unable to perform similar magic at Bloomingdale's, where she worked briefly as a public relations executive, Ms. Donovan returned to The Times in 1977 as style editor of the magazine.
She cut her own hair in a style the British call an Eaton crop.
