Her distinctive style drew on her earlier career in the theater and dance.
She was known for her work in the Art Deco style in jewelry and the use of beach glass and rock crystal.
Busby Berkeley's Style
        The film introduced the elaborately choreographed routines of Busby Berkeley in which dozens of toe-tapping, high-kicking dancers were arranged in fantastic kaleidoscopic designs.
Her style ranged from Cubist imagery to symbolic use of astrology charts, timetables, stamps and railroad tickets.
She was known for her elegance, wit and style.
A Taste for Purity
        Vera's style could be realistic or abstract.
She developed an Expressionist style, and her work was exhibited in galleries in New York.
"
        "You can acquire chic and elegance, but style itself is a rare thing," Ms. Sharaff said in a 1967 interview.
"
        The Smithsons' first widely noted building, a large glass-and-steel school built in the early 1950's in Norfolk county in eastern England, was considered a paramount example of the formal, symmetrical style inspired by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe (1886-1969), the German-American who was a founder of modern architecture.
Starting in 1950, Mrs. Shwayder became a painter, doing large worksin acrylics and water colors that featured bright flowers and landscapes in an abstract style.
Starting in 1950, Mrs. Shwayder became a painter, doing large works in acrylics and water colors that featured bright flowers and landscapes in an abstract style.
She said she restaged it to create a more realistic style in the performance and to inject a bit more humor.
Miss Boris specialized in a seemingly naive style that placed great emphasis on color and psychologically charged distortions of form.
Back in the United States, the Cromwells set up housekeeping in ducal style at Duke Farms, with its 30-room stone manor house, its private movie theater (she loved movies) and 42 miles of private roads.
Viewing dance as a theatrical and expressive art, Miss de Mille stressed motivated gestures rather than niceties of classical style in her choreography and in her coaching of dancers.
The Songs She Felt
        Miss Blake once said of her style: "When you sing a song, you have to sort of act it, too, to put it over to the people.
