Friendly Competitiveness
        Miss Craske was thought by many to have influenced Tudor's choreographic style, though she herself dismissed the notion.
'' When she was nearing 80, she began spending several days annually with grandchildren at schools in the Boston area, an effort to understand the outlook and life style of young people.
Robert Pinskey, in The New York Times Book Review, lauded her ''clean and unpretentious prose style, her aristocratic disdain for cant and her frank worldiness.
Miss Goddard, a Hollywood star of the 1930's, 40's and 50's, was also publicized for her friendships with many notable figures; her marriages to Charles Chaplin, Burgess Meredith and Erich Maria Remarque, and her glamorous life style.
Her early solo recordings - on which she performed songs like ''Lover Man'' in full-blown be-bop style, accompanied by Mr. Parker and Mr. Gillespie -helped establish her reputation as a jazz singer.

       Nina Hyde, the fashion editor of The Washington Post and a pacesetter in the fields of style and fashion, died Friday night after a long bout with breast cancer at the Georgetown University Hospital in Washington.
Nina Hyde, the fashion editor of The Washington Post and a pacesetter in the fields of style and fashion, died Friday night after a long bout with breast cancer at the Georgetown University Hospital in Washington.
As a reporter, Mrs. Hyde was known for covering fashion as intently as if she were covering a war, searching for the sociological significance of such trends as the development of the punk style in London.
Style of Protest Movement
        Her article on that phenomenon helped draw attention at the end of the 1970's to the protest movement among the young.
''The book encapsulates the best qualities of her work,'' said The Times of London, which went on to list ''a crystal-clear style of storytelling, a respect for the innocence and intelligence of the young reader, a serious treatment of supernatural phenomena, a regard for all natural life and a belief that a man-centered conception of the world is false and crippling.
After her divorce from Mr. Cavaco, in 1985, she married John Duka, a style reporter for The New York Times, and formed the present company, Keeble Cavaco & Duka.
After her divorce from Mr. Cavaco in 1985, she married John Duka, a style reporter for The New York Times, and formed the present company, Keeble Cavaco & Duka.
Her own compositional style revealed a growing interest in non-Western music.

       Pearl Bailey, the entertainer whose distinctive singing style was enhanced by her mischievous witticisms and warm personality, died yesterday at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia after collapsing at a hotel where she had been staying.
She was 72 years old and lived in Lake Havasu,
        Pearl Bailey, the entertainer whose distinctive singing style was enhanced by her mischievous witticisms and warm personality, died yesterday at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia after collapsing at a hotel where she had been staying.
Distinctive Vocal Timbre
        ''If I just sang a song,'' Pearl Bailey once said when she had been drawn into an analysis of her performing style, ''it would mean nothing.
Like Jelly Roll Morton, the great jazz pianist, who was fond of saying that he changed everything he played ''to Jelly Roll'' (as, in truth, he did), everything Miss Bailey sang came out ''Pearlie Mae style.

       Pearl Bailey, the entertainer whose distinctive singing style was enhanced by her mischievous witticisms and warm personality, died on Friday at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia after collapsing at a hotel where she had been staying.
She was 72 years old and lived in Lake Havasu,
        Pearl Bailey, the entertainer whose distinctive singing style was enhanced by her mischievous witticisms and warm personality, died on Friday at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia after collapsing at a hotel where she had been staying.
On stage her ample figure, often swathed in fur and sparkling with rhinestones and jewels, was a magnet for audience attention as she tossed off a ballad in throwaway style.
Distinctive Vocal Timbre
        ''If I just sang a song,'' Pearl Bailey once said when she had been drawn into an analysis of her performing style, ''it would mean nothing.
Like Jelly Roll Morton, the great jazz pianist, who was fond of saying that he changed everything he played ''to Jelly Roll'' (as, in truth, he did), everything Miss Bailey sang came out ''Pearlie Mae style.
Starting out in the mid-1960's as a figurative painter in the thickly pigmented style of the so-called second-generation Bay Area artists, Ms. Brown gradually lightened her mode of painting and concentrated on imagery drawn from her personal life.
She won critical praise for her attention to the language and life style of the periods she wrote about, but she was frequently faulted for reworking familiar ground.
Role for Vincent Price
        The film, released in 1946, was adapted by Joseph L. Mankiewicz and was his first directorial effort; it established him as a major force in movies and set a villainous style for Mr. Price that he was to repeat many times.
Jack Kramer, a member of the Tennis Hall of Fame, said yesterday of Miss Marble: "She was the lady who most changed the style of play for women.
She introduced the aggressive and athletic style that has led down to the female stars of today like Billie Jean King, Martina Navratilova and Steffi Graf.
"She is remembered as one of the greatest women to play the game because of her pioneering style in power tennis.
Ms. Phillips's colorful, vivacious paintings in a semi-abstract style are found in a number of museum collections.
