Miss Stuart's musicality and lyricism were the hallmarks of her style as a dancer with Pavlova, whose company she joined at age 13, and as a teacher at the School of American Ballet, which is affiliated with the New York City Ballet.
Since she had recently studied modern dance with Harald Kreutzberg, Martha Graham and Agnes de Mille, she was asked to teach classes in an ill-defined style that was less stringent than ballet but not quite modern dance.
Considered a pioneer in her field, she built her reputation on her ability to combine great style with a keen sense of business.
"
        One person who remembers her style particularly well is the decorator Sister Parish.

        Dame Margot Fonteyn, whose blend of refinement and passion redefined 20th-century ballet style and made her an international idol as the prima ballerina of the Royal Ballet in Britain, died yesterday in Paitilla Hospital in Panama City.
" The English-born ballerina was associated with the growth of British ballet since 1934, and her effortless artistry was equated with a British style.
And yet as Dame Margot often demonstrated in her dancing, the ballerina with the openly well-bred style was also capable of a rush of passion -- an emotional outpouring that she made unforgettable in "Swan Lake," "Romeo and Juliet" and "Marguerite and Armand," which Sir Frederick choreographed as a vehicle for her and Mr. Nureyev in 1963.
In 1989, she moved to the copy desk of the Style section.
Ms. Donay was responsible for discovering Vidal Sassoon, the hairdresser, in London and brought him and his geometric style to the United States in the mid-1960's.
" The book combined her inside knowledge with a popular style, making her information useful to professionals and at the same time accessible to the public.
Mrs. Reed said her frilly designs under the Nelly Don label helped challenge conventional thinking of pre-World War I America that it was impossible to give style to clothing in the cheap price range.
Mrs. Reed said her frilly designs under the Nelly Don label helped challenge conventional thinking of pre-World War I America that it was impossible to give style to clothing in the cheap price range.
"Gordimer's specifically feminine experiences, her compassion and her outstanding literary style characterize her short stories as well.
" Likened to Chekhov
        The subtlety and economy of Miss Ginzburg's style has prompted critics to liken her to Chekhov.
By 1928, she was studying at the Art Students League with John Sloan and Kenneth Hayes Miller, whose satirical depictions of city life influenced her own style.
In the early 1940's, she changed to abstraction, which remained her primary style for the rest of her life.
In these pictures, she used the tools of modernist photographic style -- including dynamically framed compositions, flattened pictorial space, high angles, and great detail -- to capture the enormous energy and variety of the city.
In the years since, Atget has provided an important example of purpose and style to a host of other photographers.
