Her vocal style was descended from the humorous gutbucket blues of Bessie Smith by way of Dinah Washington, whose singing also conveyed a seam of earthy amusement.
For the next few decades Mrs. Avery worked as a freelance illustrator, enabling her husband to paint full time, attend the Art Students League and find his mature style.
Her hair rinsed a reddish shade called Frisky Fawn, she used a wheelchair but still shouted questions in a style that Eric Sevareid once said could ''give rudeness a bad name.
Ms. Wittig's startlingly rich imagery found its counterpart in her experimental literary approach: she sometimes abandoned paragraphing and normal punctuation and developed a lyrical style that could be called neither prose nor poetry.
Slonimsky called her ''a representative of the new style of Soviet ballet,'' for which she created roles in new works.
Ms. Schimmel taught generations of students in a breathtaking style that included lecturing with her eyes closed and reciting long passages of mystical poetry from memory.
But as much as the baron exemplifies the family's grand style, he once said his wife was the family member most steeped in family history, tradition and élan.
After spending time with her idols -- Erroll Garner, Lennie Tristano and Bud Powell -- she developed a style that was lean, percussive, swinging and interrupted with plenty of rests, not far from Horace Silver's style but more low-key.
After spending time with her idols -- Erroll Garner, Lennie Tristano and Bud Powell -- she developed a style that was lean, percussive, swinging and interrupted with plenty of rests, not far from Horace Silver's style but more low-key.

        Nina Simone, a singer whose distinctively emotional style blended elements of jazz, gospel, blues, European art song and other influences, died yesterday at her home in Carry-le-Rouet, France, near Marseille.
''
        Ms. Collins made her New York debut in 1949, dancing in her own choreography on a shared program at the 92nd Street Y. John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, described her as ''the most exciting young dancer who has flashed across the current scene in a long time,'' calling her style an eclectic mix of modern dance and ballet.
''
        Over time her screen presence softened and became more likable; meanwhile, society was catching up to her willful, independent style.
She wrote about it in her first book, published in 1987, whose title captures the direct, colloquial style of her writing: ''The Making of the African Queen: Or, How I Went to Africa With Bogart, Bacall and Huston and Almost Lost My Mind'' (Knopf).
'' In typical Katharine Hepburn style, she faced the camera and, at the age of 85, tacitly acknowledged how close she had to be to the end.
Born in New York, Ms. Fonaroff began her dance training at 11 with Michel Fokine and Vera Fokina, his wife, and studied the Isadora Duncan style, two experiences that she later told friends suggested to her what dance should not be.
Her mother encouraged her artistic flair, and although her father, a businessman, was opposed to her working on the stage, she began dancing in an Isadora Duncan-like free style at age 16 and soon found work -- and considerable recognition -- in Berlin theaters.
Yet in China it was her American background and style that distinguished Soong Mei-ling; that was her maiden name, sometimes spelled May-ling.
As a singer her style was likened to Patsy Montana, and one of her most successful recordings was a version for RCA Victor of Montana's hit ''I Want to Be a Cowboy's Sweetheart.
''At first, her style seems a simple mélange of chunky chords and brief connective runs, but on closer examination it is a repository of the jazz piano playing of the thirties and forties,'' he wrote.
In 1962, she became known to millions of television viewers when she was signed as a replacement for Carol Burnett -- whom she somewhat resembled in looks and comic style -- on the ''Garry Moore Show.
In 1962 she became known to millions of television viewers when she was signed as a replacement for Carol Burnett -- whom she somewhat resembled in looks and comic style -- on ''The Garry Moore Show.

        Hope Lange, a film, television and stage actress noted for a natural comedic style and intelligent portrayals of women in difficult circumstances, work that brought her two Emmy Awards and an Academy Award nomination, died at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif., on Friday.
The cause was an intestinal infection brought on by a bout of diverticulitis, according to Ms. Lange's husband, Charles Hollerith Jr.
        With her naturally blond hair, lithe dancer's figure and simple, straightforward style, Ms. Lange won praise for her first film role as a young woman who befriended a temptress played by Marilyn Monroe at a bus stop in the 1956 romantic comedy ''Bus Stop.

        Priscilla Comins Kidder, who rose to prominence as Priscilla of Boston, outfitting young brides as their numbers soared after World War II in embellished dresses that became synonymous with American matrimonial style, died on Sunday at her home in Winchester, Mass.
