The style served Ms. Unger well in numerous public commissions, mostly recently in 1991 with ''Ode to Tatlin,'' a pair of tall, crisp colonnadelike curving forms that face each other, forming a kind of elliptical gateway, at the Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College.
Along with Claire McCardell and Tina Leser, Ms. Potter was one of the designers credited with inventing American sportswear, a style that has influenced designers all over the world.
Several of Ms. Potter's designs are  in an exhibition called, ''Designing Women: American Style 1940-1960,'' at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford.
She wasn't the boldest, like Claire McCardell, but she was known for color and simple textures, for a discreet style of dressing, for sophisticated sportswear.
''She wasn't influenced by Paris, but by the modern American leisure life style.
But mime within this style and in others allowed her to exhibit her brilliant dramatic gifts.
''She had a soul inflection in a bop state of intrigue,'' Ellington wrote about Ms. Roche in his oblique style of praise, ''and every word was understandable despite the sophisticated hip and jive connotations.
In a similar bit of unfortunate luck, Ms. Roche sang ''Take the A Train'' with Ellington in the 1943 film ''Reveille With Beverly'' but wasn't recorded singing Ellington's signature tune until nine years later, in a be-bop style, on the album ''Ellington Uptown.
While attending British convent schools, she discovered the music of Peggy Lee, whose intimate come-hither style was a major formative influence.
Under his art direction, it developed a strong graphics style,  which was widely copied.
The Washington Post Book World compared the book to the work of F. Scott Fitzgerald ''in both style and subject matter.
Tall and striking looking, with short blond hair, turning gray, Ms. Adams was known for her sense of style as well as for her liberal politics and her wry view of life.

        Kirsten Ralov, one of Denmark's greatest ballerinas and an authority on the unusually sparkling Danish style of classical dancing, died on Sunday at her home in Copenhagen.

        Kirsten Ralov, one of Denmark's greatest ballerinas and an authority on the unusually sparkling Danish style of classical dancing, died on Sunday at her home in Copenhagen.
She spent decades fashioning countless other songs in a style that flamenco experts often described as dulce, or sweet.
Ms. Guild, whose full name was Nancy Guild Martin, was ''discovered'' in old Hollywood style when she appeared in a 1945 Life magazine picture layout about campus fashions while a student at the University of Arizona.
She emerged as a First Lady who had her own mind, her own style and according to reports of a secret videotape that circulated after one of her foreign trips, her own American Express card.
''
        On her foreign travels, she also became known for a haughty conversational style that bordered on the pedantic.
Her style of dancing was sometimes called coltish or kittenish, in contrast to the strength and dignity of Miss Carioca's approach.
Although Miss Cullberg was a disciple of the German Expressionist choreographer Kurt Jooss, her own style fused modern dance and ballet.
''
        ''Childhood'' was written in her ''predialogue'' style, which she defined as the ''little bits of something still alive'' on the border of consciousness, ''something prior to language -- a sensation, a perception.
Fado, which means fate in Portuguese, is a passionate, volatile, haunted style that originated in the cafes and taverns of Lisbon.
She specialized in cases involving labor and employment, litigations and higher education law, and was known for her energetic leadership style.
When the family moved to Paris, Tex., she befriended an elderly black guitar player who taught her the blues and became a major influence on her style.
Her early paintings, executed in an Expressionistic cartoon style, confronted issues of sexual and painterly decorum.
