Later, she asked to move to a writing position in The Post's Style section and frequently wrote for Vanity Fair.
She did it all with a zestfully personal sense of style, wearing the loose-fitting clothes she designed for herself 50 years ago as she walked the grounds with her half-dozen pet Shetland sheepdogs.
She first performed the title role of ''Giselle,'' perhaps the greatest of Romantic ballets, in Montreal in 1949, prompting S. Morgan-Powell, dance critic of The Montreal Daily Star, to write, ''Her dancing was characterized by a purity of style not often seen nowadays in ballet.
Many at The New Yorker believed the precisely penciled Gould proofs sustained its suavity of style.
She cited the pinnacle she reached in 1972: a separate credit in ''The Elements of Style,'' the hugely popular text written by William Strunk Jr. and revived by E.B.
'' Ms. Ellis's pen name, chosen perhaps for its sibilant hiss, suited her style of elegant malice.
In 1969, she and her husband moved to the Bay Area, where California Funk, a quasi-Surrealistic style that embraced ceramics along with goofy, exaggerated representations of daily life, was heating up.
She developed a meticulous trompe l'oeil style, capturing in fired clay and glaze the forms, surfaces and creases of much-used luggage, gloves, hand-bags, a golf bag, a knapsack and even leather jackets hanging from coat hooks.
Two years later, in 1946, she took a job at The News as a copy girl and then became a writer covering crime and life style features.
It allowed her to take her sketch pad where cameras were forbidden and capture the proceedings in her own distinctive style.
Yet Ms. Struchkova's main teacher at the Bolshoi school was Yelizaveta Gerdt, the epitome of refined classical style.
Ms. Brady arrived at her signature style in the mid-1970's, when realism was enjoying a revival.
Motley's style could be deceptive, often challenging a witness to get away with one lie after another without challenging them,'' she wrote in her book ''In My Place,'' published in 1992.
