Yet perhaps what  most characterized her 53-year literary career was her simple, terse writing style, as if language itself were merely a vehicle for conveying passion and desire, pain and despair.
Dr. Klein was known for her direct style, her no-nonsense professionalism and the breadth of her interests.
"
        She was often said to have inspired the 1935 Rodgers and Hart hit song "The Most Beautiful Girl in the World," with what The Guardian on Saturday called "her blue eyes, blond hair, and fragile singing and dancing style.
She sometimes combined exotic elements -- as in the "Fantasy on a Javanese Motive" (1948) -- with her own contemporary American style.
On Nov. 21, 1934, she made her stage debut in an amateur contest at the Apollo Theater, singing two songs, "The Object of My Affection" and "Judy," in the style of Connee Boswell.
Signed briefly to Reprise Records, Miss Fitzgerald tried singing contemporary hits by the Beatles, Burt Bacharach and Marvin Gaye, but rock and soul proved almost as uncongenial to her style as had country.
Yet lyricism and a sense of a tonal center remained crucial elements of her work, as did an approach to instrumental coloration that alluded to the styles of Ravel and Messiaen and often seemed to have more in common with the French style than with contemporary American works.
She suggested in her memoir that Lionel Trilling often used her as an editor and tutor on style.
From the mid-1950's, she cultivated an increasingly painterly and colorful style, usually working directly from nature, or still life, with particular emphasis on the forms and hues of flowers.
Her work matured to semi-abstract landscapes and collages, often executed in a loose painterly style.
With her distinctly personal style of journalism, she rendered detailed observation with a sense of political urgency.
The company earned a national reputation for corporate good works, including paying  for renowned architects to design public buildings for Columbus, leading the town to style itself "the Athens of the prairie.
