It was not until 1946 that she began the fine-line pencil drawings that developed into her own style.
On the strength of a classical and rigorous style, Marguerite Yourcenar used a very personal tone to find, thanks to history, the occasion for a strong reflection on morality and power.
''
        Christian Lacroix said he would miss ''her sharpness, her acute sense of analysis and her style.
Miss O'Day's recordings, 36 songs made for Columbia Records between 1946 and 1951, document a purer, more roughly rural country style than the urbanized, smoothed-over Nashville sound that has since come to dominate country music.
'She Astounded Everybody'
        Phillip Burton spent nearly two decades in Congress and championed his liberal causes with a brash style.
'She Astounded Everybody'
        Phillip Burton spent nearly two decades in Congress and championed his liberal causes with a brash style.
She was not well suited to the City Ballet style, however.
There she sang with a small band led by Mr. Kirby that played in a light and airy style, once described as ''orchestrated finesse'' that was an ideal complement to Miss Sullivan's singing and to her manner when she sang, standing motionless, her chin tilted confidently upward and a slightly mischievous smile lighting her face.
'' Expanded Coverage
        As editor of women's and family/ style news from 1965 to 1974, Miss Curtis worked to expand coverage of fashion, society, decor and family matters to reflect her conviction that these topics should be treated with the same emphasis on news and lively writing that politics and sports received.
Other publications heralded her iconoclastic style, the precision of her technique and the research behind it.
''
        In addition to her society and family/ style reporting, Miss Curtis over the years pursued a variety of stories with datelines from around the world.
''Here is a mistress of ballet technique and style who never dances ballet, of Spanish dance who never does Spanish dances,'' John Martin, a dance critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1946.
Mrs. Rose, whose style reflected her youth in Virginia and Brooklyn, moved through a variety of managerial jobs related to labor.

       Mary Astor, who had a delicate beauty, extraordinary grace and a compelling acting style in more than 100 movies over 45 years, died early yesterday of complications from emphysema at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 81 years old.
Mary Astor, who had a delicate beauty, extraordinary grace and a compelling acting style in more than 100 movies over 45 years, died early yesterday of complications from emphysema at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 81 years old.
'' It was praised by reviewers for its style and uncompromising insights.
Studies in which she took part reported that the person who undergoes psychotherapy develops a healthier style of living and is less apt to require unneeded hospitalization.
''She was immediately acclaimed for her instinctive feeling for style and breadth of understanding as well as technical proficiency,'' Noel Goodwin wrote in the New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians.
Fifty years ago, while she was a secretary at the University of Chicago and did not have a college degree, she wrote a slender pamphlet describing the correct style for writing college dissertations.
They show a fresh, silvery voice and a merry style that could be tinged with pathos in melancholy arias.
