Mother Smith, as she was widely known, was one of the first singers to perform in the blues-influenced gospel style created by Thomas A. Dorsey in the 1920's and 30's.
But while her style and showmanship were widely imitated, she did not make her first recording until 1950.
"She had an incredible sense of literary style and structure," he said.
In the interview, in typically self-deprecating style, she said she had joined the profession because of a simple love of books.
Mrs. Albers's textiles reflected the Abstract style in painting in their geometric patterns and complex weaves.
"
        As Mayor, she had a highly personal style that included enchanting local children by flying in planeloads of snow for Christmas parties.
Last year, on the occasion of a retrospective of Ms. Dehner's work that toured the United States, Holland Cotter wrote in The New York Times that her "initial pieces owe something to Smith's rangy, attenuated style, but have a Surrealist lyricism very much their own.
" He added, "It was a style Ms. Dehner would continue to refine and simplify as she began working in wood.
Mrs. Parish is widely considered to have originated, in the 1960's, the decorating idiom that became known as American country style: she was an early and influential champion of the humble striped cloth called mattress ticking, which had traditionally covered mattresses, using it for slipcovers and on throw pillows.
"
        The white furniture and other furnishings in the house -- including soft-hued chintz, needlework, hand-crafted cotton rugs and paintings of dogs -- became staples of the style.
The next day, the ankle held up, and with her fluid running style she won her semifinal in 11.3 seconds, equaling the world record.
As a costume designer in the early 40's, she put dancers' leotards in her sketches for Harper's Bazaar as a style that was suitable for wearing off the rehearsal floor.
Their company, Julianelli Shoes, became known in the 1960's for developing "the naked look," a light, airy style in footwear.
