With a naturalness and an authority that belied her limited theatrical experience, she was an astonishing success in her first major role.
Ms. Verrill, who had already recorded the film's soundtrack, suddenly found herself ousted by the actress of the moment, Andrea Leeds, who had become an overnight success that year in ''Stage Door.
She wrote her first book in 1923, and her early writing met with critical success while causing scandal with its emphasis on subjects like rape, infanticide, lesbianism and abortion.
The success of her painting helped soften the blow when the movie ''Rhapsody in Blue,'' came out in 1945 and excised her and Arthur from the Gershwin family.
The theater, which has had a policy of presenting bold new playwrights since its 1956 success with John Osborne's groundbreaking  ''Look Back in Anger,'' stuck by Ms. Kane and staged two of the three other plays she was to write in her short, high-profile career.
The young wife hoped that Time's growing success would eventually allow her workaholic husband to join her in the kind of social whirl she loved.
''
        Miss Lortel was frustrated by the success of ''Threepenny Opera'' because she wanted to bring more plays into her theater, so she  persuaded the American National Theater and Academy to support a matinee series as a ''laboratory for innovation.
'' She had her greatest success with ''Superior Women'' in 1984, which became a best seller and traced the lives of five Radcliffe women from 1943 to 1983.

        Sara Holmes Boutelle, an architectural historian who rediscovered Julia Morgan, one of the first female architects to achieve major success, died on Wednesday at the Dominican Hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif. She was 90.
''I didn't foresee my success,'' she later recalled.
But Danieli's business success reflected her drive for technical superiority and her untiring sales efforts.
That's not what we were about, and that's not the secret of our success.
''You, who as an irreproachable and decent athlete, did everything you could to achieve athletic success, were already stamped by the Nuremberg Laws as a second-class person, and for renouncing athletic success in order to show solidarity with the persecuted, you were punished.
''You, who as an irreproachable and decent athlete, did everything you could to achieve athletic success, were already stamped by the Nuremberg Laws as a second-class person, and for renouncing athletic success in order to show solidarity with the persecuted, you were punished.

        Anne Woolliams, a British ballet teacher who played a major role in the international success of the Stuttgart Ballet and who became artistic director of the Australian Ballet and the Vienna State Opera Ballet, died in Canterbury, England, on July 8.
''
        During the 1940's and 1950's, their children said, the couple's success rate was so high that their participation in a forthcoming show was enough to guarantee its full funding.
The performance was such a success that soon she and her sisters were regularly singing with the Carter Family on the Texas station XERA, a powerful radio broadcast set up mainly so that a quack doctor could advertise his unusual remedies for impotence.
But the success of college women's basketball, coupled with the Olympic championship team at the 1996 Atlanta Games, put women's basketball on the American sports map.
The television show took them to new heights of success.
Ms. Dickson Wright agreed, although she credited the success of the show to a backlash against what she called the health police.
The success of the Little Rock campaign, she later said, ''had a lot to do with removing fear that people have for getting involved.
''
        The Cadet Nurse Corps proved a success, meeting its recruitment quotas in 1943 and 1944 and outstripping them in the final year of the war, when there were 112,000 cadets in the program.
Explaining the success of the Cadet Nurse Corps, Ms. Leone told an interviewer in 1945: ''We had a saleable package from the beginning.
