One notable success was the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
"
        The success of "Blues in the Night" led to roles in several movies, including "Up In Arms" (1944) and "Till the Clouds Roll By" (1946).
Then, with the more elaborate "Dinah Shore Chevy Show" in 1956, she became one of the few female entertainers to have long-term success as the host of a television variety program.
The production was an immediate success.
Her success led her husband to try his hand, as well.
The Wolffs' first success in the United States was a new edition of the Grimm fairy tales, in 1944.
Miss Mercouri, whose greatest screen success was her role as a flamboyant prostitute in the 1960 film "Never on Sunday," was 68, her family said, although references disagree on the year of her birth.
But he wrote that she possessed a "fiercely independent inner life which she shared with few people and would one day be partly responsible for her enormous success.
She told a friend that she admired his "strength and his success.
" Her success in that role brought her offers from British film makers.
She is survived by two daughters: Judith of Kew Garden Hills and Marcia Williams of Lake Success, L.I.
After performing with the Second City comedy troupe in Chicago, she moved to New York in 1981, where she became an Off Broadway success with her 1985 revue "Danitra Vance and the Mell-o White Boys.
Although Ms. Fisher's work tended to be small, she was beginning to enjoy success for her public commissions.
The success that followed was fueled by her taste, talent and strength of will.
It was not until the 60's that she began writing poetry in earnest, initially without success.
" In the years between, she and Mr. Cronyn, played opposite each other in success after success to become the most illustrious theater couple of their day.
" In the years between, she and Mr. Cronyn, played opposite each other in success after success to become the most illustrious theater couple of their day.
Ahead of her was more success in nightclubs, cabaret and theater.
Her belief that there was material for dance in the everyday lives of black people -- and her strong personality and early success -- had a profound influence on several generations of black choreographers and dancers, among them Donald McKayle and Alvin Ailey.
" The show became an instant success and made Miss Baker an international star.
