She was 91 and lived in Lake Success, N.Y.
        Mrs. Raffa was born in Sicily and came to New York City in 1928.
In addition to Matilda, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by another daughter, Nancy Mazzola, of Montville, N.J.; three sons, Frank, of Lake Success; Sam, of Syosset, L.I., and Joseph, of San Diego, 15 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
      
Since then, other researchers have also reported success in training chimpanzees to communicate without depending on speech, as by pushing specific buttons on a keyboard.
She wrote articles about home-school partnerships and promoting the academic success of children from diverse ethnic backgrounds.
Her books in print are "Managing an Effective Interview Program" (Teachers College, 1984), "Parent Involvement and Success for All Children: What We Know Now" (Institute for Responsive Education, 1990), "Schools Reaching Out and Success for All Children: Two Case Studies" (Institute for Responsive Education, 1990), and "Developing Home-School Partnerships: From Concept to Practice" (Teachers College, 1993).
Her books in print are "Managing an Effective Interview Program" (Teachers College, 1984), "Parent Involvement and Success for All Children: What We Know Now" (Institute for Responsive Education, 1990), "Schools Reaching Out and Success for All Children: Two Case Studies" (Institute for Responsive Education, 1990), and "Developing Home-School Partnerships: From Concept to Practice" (Teachers College, 1993).

        Sylvia Weinberger, who used a sprinkling of matzoh meal, a pinch of salt and a dollop of schmaltzmanship to turn chopped liver into a commercial success, died on July 23 at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She was 89 and had lived in Boca Raton, Fla.
        Mrs. Weinberger started making chopped liver for a luncheonette she and her husband, Irving, had opened in 1944 on the Grand Concourse at 169th Street in the Bronx.
In a field where creative-writing teachers are judged by the published authors they train, Ms. Hadley assured herself a measure of instant success.
Miss Chang, who was forced by the Japanese invasion to abandon her college education in Hong Kong, enjoyed a measure of popular success after returning to Shanghai, but her works were dismissed as mere romances until her 1943 novella, "The Golden Cangue" (named for a form of restraint resembling the stocks used in colonial America), established her literary reputation.
)
        Since then, her success has come steadily.
"
        That success started the sisters on a long series of novelty hits that included "Ti-Pi-Tin," "Hold Tight," "The Jumping Jive," "Beer Barrel Polka," "Boogie-Woogie Bugle Boy" and "Apple Blossom Time.
After her initial success, she moved back and forth between theater and films.
Mrs. Greenberg traced her success to a day in 1957 when her 16-year-old daughter, Mary Jane, came home raving about the performance of four classmates at a Passaic High School assembly.
The Tiara release of "I Met Him on a Sunday" was such an immediate success.
Within a decade, as major labels came to dominate the distribution network, Scepter's success had faded, and by the time the company folded in 1977 Mrs. Greenberg had lost everything.
As a member of Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes from 1932 to 1937, she was  a favorite of the choreographer Leonide Massine, who created major roles for her in two of his monumentally scaled symphonic ballets of the 30's, "Les Presages"  and "Choreartium," both of which have recently been revived with success.
"
        Despite the success of "Gone With The Wind," Ms. McQueen found it increasingly difficult to find work in film and theater.

        Lillian Teit Zabar, who fled the pogroms of her homeland, came to the United  States and became part of an American success story, died yesterday in Manhattan.
His mother's life was "the classic American success story," Saul Zabar said last night.

        Lillian Teit Zabar, who fled the pogroms of her homeland, came to the United  States and became part of an American success story, died Friday in Manhattan.
Her last living son, Edward M. Kennedy, eulogized the mother of a President, two Senators and an Ambassador and the grandmother of two United States Representatives and the Lieutenant Governor and a state representative in Maryland, saying, "She was ambitious not only for our success, but for our souls.
"It means a great deal to know Negroes are making a success in every phase of life," Mrs. Taylor said in 1967.
Her most important success was a victory in the National Board-a-Match Teams, now called the Reisinger Teams, in 1944.
The instant success of the play, Ms. Resnik's first, took even the author by surprise.
Selena's father had toured nightclubs across Texas in the 1960's with the original version of Los Dinos but did not achieve wide success until he made young Selena, with her belting vocal power, the lead singer.
Reviewers attributed her enduring success to a dualistic personality -- tough versus vulnerable, ingenuous versus calculating -- and to a talent for mimicry and pretense.
Her boutique became such a success that he abandoned his academic career.
