She was also the manager of the pianist Alfred Brendel, starting early in his career, and was instrumental in his success in the United States.
Her biggest success after ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' was the sitcom ''Gimme a Break!,'' in which she played Miss Nellie Ruth ''Nell'' Harper, the housekeeper and surrogate mother for a widowed California police chief and his three children.
It was not a success, nor was her solo writing effort two years later, a comedy called ''Jenny Kissed Me,'' about a priest who finds his household disrupted by the arrival of his housekeeper's niece.
Mrs. Kerr scored her first big success outside the theater with the publication in 1957 of ''Please Don't Eat the Daisies,'' a witty and wide-ranging collection of pieces about everything from the pet dogs in her life to the oddities of the Kerrs' house in Larchmont, which boasted a two-story fireplace and a carillon that played the duet from ''Carmen.
For all her experience and success in the theater, Mrs. Kerr never stopped worrying about how her work would be received.
'' She once said, ''I think if you can write a play or produce a play,'' the first step toward success has been made, if ''people don't want to kill themselves in the lobby.
She also had a major London success with Jerome Kern's ''Music in the Air.
In 1956 she changed the company's name to Eve Stillman, and later it became Eve Stillman Inc.
        Its products included hand-embroidered nightgowns, and it had particular success with horsehair petticoats for the full-skirted fashions of the 1950's.

        Peggy Conklin, a stage actress who found early success in ''The Petrified Forest'' in 1936 and followed it with a wide variety of dramatic and comic roles on Broadway, died last Tuesday at her home in Naples, Fla. She was 96.
It was an unexpected success and did much to give that art a wider public and institutional presence.
Although Balanchine was considered the genius behind much of Ms. Zorina's success onstage and screen in the 1930's and 1940's (they were divorced in 1946), she was better known to the general public than he was in 1938, when they went to Hollywood to work for Sam Goldwyn.
''
        After moving to London to study ballet, she had her first success in the West End in 1933: Anton Dolin, the British ballet star, cast her opposite himself in ''Ballerina,'' a play with ballet interludes.
''
        She ascribed part of her success to her husband and sometime law partner, Hicks G. Griffiths, who was once state Democratic chairman of Michigan.
MacMillan, the publisher, promoted the book with unusual vigor, hoping to emulate its 1936 success with ''Gone With the Wind.
''
        She wrote seven more novels, but none came close to the success of her first.
''
        Dr. Densen-Gerber's success at getting government help became her downfall when the state investigated her use of public funds in the early 1980's and found irregularities.
She often limited her film and theater work to be with her family, but remarked to an interviewer that it was ''impossible to make a success'' of both home and career all the time.
The book, ''Postmortem,'' had been rejected by several publishing houses, but it was a success with the public when it came out in 1990.
I think I'm a success, but I had every advantage; I should have been.
Trousers as a Trademark
        Despite her early success, reviewers in those days sometimes found her strident and mannered.
A Loving Partnership
        The success of ''Woman of the Year'' (1942) and the stars' off-screen relationship led to other Tracy and Hepburn films that followed a similar pattern.
Ms. Welch's decision to remain in Europe and make London her home may have resulted from a combination of her success there, her mother's Scottish and Irish ancestry and a visceral sense of belonging.
In an interview in Success magazine in 1998, she said her father lost a son in the war.
The club was an immediate success, but its name, the Body Shop, caused confusion: People thought it was an auto-repair business.
She understudied Jayne Mansfield in ''Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?
Gibson owed much of her success to that very network of black tennis enthusiasts and to a geographic coincidence.
''Her road to success was a challenging one, but I never saw her back down.
The success of the Americans helped further the reputation of American design.
Her book, ''The Past Is Myself,'' published in 1968, was a runaway success and a Book of the Month Club selection as ''Ride Out the Dark'' (Norton, 1971).
Her success in ''Annie'' came after a life devoted to performing, a career that included television, film and roles in Broadway shows both acclaimed and better off forgotten.
''
        Despite her success, however, she did not think her talents were particularly suited to television.
Ms. Loudon's success in ''Annie'' led to several more Broadway roles, including ''West Side Waltz'' (1981), opposite Katharine Hepburn, and ''Noises Off'' (1983), as a diva in a sinking production.
Her success in ''Annie'' came after a life devoted to performing, a career that included television, film and roles in Broadway shows both acclaimed and better off forgotten.
''
        Despite her success, however, she did not think her talents were particularly suited to television.
She had not worked as an actress in two years, but her audition was a great success.
She occasionally wrote for the theater and the movies, though without much success.
The Bride's Shop, as she called it, was an immediate success, with sales of more than $10,000 in its first week.
Mrs. Kidder's success put her increasingly in contact with the wealthy.
