Israel's prime minister, Ehud Barak, said she represented the Israeli success story.
The breakthroughs achieved by Ms. Cashin and designers like Claire McCardell, Vera Maxwell, Anne Klein and Anne Fogarty still influence the way women dress, and paved the way for the success of American designers like Ralph Lauren, Donna Karan and Calvin Klein.
Sarah had this incredibly sharp brain, which was evidenced by her success at both navigating and portraying what someone in Oliver Cromwell's Parliament once called 'the tortuous, ungodly jungle of English law.
Although Ms. Matthiasdottir enjoyed both critical and financial success in New York, especially after 1970, official recognition proved elusive.
She was one of several postwar artists who, despite Abstract Expressionism's unanimous success, persisted in the notion that abstraction and representation were not mutually exclusive states, that one could paint from reality in a way that gave form, color and paint a power all their own.
They also mingled at Ms. Howard's Spanish-style home on Coldwater Canyon Drive in Beverly Hills; she and her first husband, Charles K. Feldman, who used his success as the first super-agent to become a producer, bought it for $18,000 in 1942.
Mrs. Reed, who wrote some 250 compositions, ranging from songs to marches to operas, achieved her widest success with the 1953 pop song ''Oh, Happy Day,'' which she co-wrote with Don Howard Koplow.
'' Yet Anna Kisselgoff said in The New York Times in 1976 that ''the secret of her success is the way she distills emotion into a few movements.
Although a misinformed press agent billed her as a Russian ballerina, her success led her to stay on and found a modern-dance company, La Paloma Azul, in 1940.
''When you have success and you're having fun, it just snowballs and gets bigger and bigger,'' Schmirler said of the team's success.
''When you have success and you're having fun, it just snowballs and gets bigger and bigger,'' Schmirler said of the team's success.
In the early 1950's she began to achieve critical and popular success onstage in France, where she starred in productions like ''The Rose Tattoo,'' ''A View From the Bridge,'' ''A Taste of Honey'' and ''The Brothers Karamazov.

        Thea Porter, one of the earliest  among British fashion designers who rode hippie chic to high visibility, if not always to enduring commercial success, died on Monday in London.
The friend said Sister Isolina's success as a peacemaker was the result of her interpersonal skills, her training in sociology at Fordham and the insights provided by her Puerto Rican heritage.
Ms. Verdon's first Broadway success was explosive.
She wasn't eager to return to Broadway despite her success in ''Can-Can,'' but finally signed on.
It would be her first experience with an up-and-coming choreographer named Bob Fosse, fresh from his first Broadway success with ''The Pajama Game.
When Mr. Kidd made his offer of a part in ''Can-Can,'' she was weary of anonymity, weary of Cole -- a perfectionist given to tantrums -- and ready to leave Hollywood for a second chance at success on Broadway.
''
        In many cases, the shows went on to wide success, like ''Juan Darien,'' which began Off Off Broadway and eventually reopened at Lincoln Center and led to Ms. Taymor's being asked to direct ''The Lion King'' on Broadway.
