''
        ''Scarlett,'' which was universally panned by critics, was a considerable commercial success.
Troy's other songs for Atlantic during this period -- including ''What'cha Gonna Do About It?,'' also recorded by the Hollies -- had more success in Britain than in America, and in the late 60's she moved to London.
Often, she found that programs had no built-in procedure to evaluate their success.
She was also a producer of several Tony-nominated plays and musicals, including David Hare's ''Skylight'' in 1996, ''Sweet Smell of Success'' in 2002 and ''The Play What I Wrote'' last year.
In her 1985 autobiography, ''Estée, A Success Story,'' Mrs. Lauder recalled her mother as ''a Hungarian beauty whose mother was a French Catholic and whose father was a Hungarian Jew.
Mr. Lauter had tried his hand without much success in both the silk and button businesses.
Peter Kennedy attributed much of the team's success to his father having taught them perseverance.
Building on the success of ''Gymsuit,'' Ms. Danziger also became a popular speaker.
Part of her success, too, came from the way she balanced Western and Japanese acting styles.
Despite their success, the photographers closed their studio the same year, shortly after Hitler came to power.
Despite her success in Germany, she chose to return to Turkey that year and assist in establishing the first opera house in Ankara.
''
        The key to her success, Ms. Rutherford said, was that she was so flexible: ''She could play the girl next door or somebody's other woman.
The huge success of ''King Kong,'' a beauty-and-the-beast film that opened in New York at both Radio City Music Hall and the Roxy in 1933, led to roles for Miss Wray in other 1930's films in which her life or her virtue, or both, were imperiled.
She stayed with WGBH even after her series became a national success because it gave her the freedom to cook tripe, kidneys and other offal that she said would not fly on commercial television.
When she wrote recipes, they were long and detailed because, she said, she felt obligated to ensure their success.
Ms. Sagan had an enormous international success with ''Bonjour Tristesse,'' about an amoral teenager who sets out to keep her philandering widowed father from marrying again.

        Jessie V. Stone, a philanthropist who was the widow of W. Clement Stone, the insurance magnate known for his optimistic books and speeches on success, died on Sept. 3 at her home in Winnetka, Ill. She was 100.
Two earlier galleries -- Alfred Stieglitz's 291 early in the 20th century and Julien Levy's in the 1930's -- had tried to sell photographs but without success.
Two earlier galleries -- Alfred Stieglitz's 291 early in the 20th century and Julien Levy's in the 1930's -- had tried to sell photographs but without success.
Instant success propelled her into appearances in Parma as Puccini's Mimi in ''La Bohème,'' her first Desdemona and other roles.
She was also associate producer of the 1955 comedy ''Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?
