Mrs. Hoving pursued her music career alone and had wide-ranging success, from musical comedy to opera and nightclub engagements as well as her own shows on NBC radio and ABC television.
Mrs. Hoving pursued her music career alone and had wide-ranging success, from musical comedy to opera and nightclub engagements as well as her own shows on NBC radio and ABC television.
Fewer Roles
        Ms. Dennis's success was extraordinary for any actor or actress, but even then, she seemed to recognize that such oversized fame might be ephemeral.
"Valley of the Dolls" (1967) was a steamy box office success but critically scorned.
"Valley of the Dolls" (1967) was a steamy box office success but critically scorned.
Ms. Dennis's success was extraordinary for any actor or actress, but she seemed to recognize that such oversize fame might be ephemeral.
" Mr. Abbott built up the "blind date" role in "Best Foot Forward" from five lines to a leading role, making her an instant success.
After her success in "Best Foot Forward," M-G-M flew her to Hollywood and signed her to a seven-year contract.
" Mr. Abbott built up the "blind date" role in "Best Foot Forward" from five lines to a leading role, making her an instant success.
After her success in "Best Foot Forward," M-G-M flew her to Hollywood and signed her to a seven-year contract.
They won the first World Women's Pairs Championship in Cannes, France, in 1962, and repeated that success in Las Palmas in the Canary Islands in 1974, a double achievement that has never been matched.
She also appeared on Broadway, achieving her most notable success in a two-season run of "Milk and Honey," a hit musical that opened in 1961, when she was in her mid-60's.
Miss Dietrich began her cabaret performances in 1954, and for more than two decades, for fees up to $30,000 a week, she hypnotized audiences in such disparate cities as London, Las Vegas, Paris, New York, Montreal, Johannesburg and Tokyo and Tel Aviv (where she sang in German with some apprehension, but with stunning success).
A native of Chicago and a 1944 graduate of Cornell University, Ms. Baer scored her first success as an author in 1965 when Macmillan began "Follow Me!," a travel guide for single women looking for a husband abroad.
Together with her husband, John F. Raynolds 3d, former president of Outward Bound USA, she wrote "Beyond Success -- How Volunteer Service Can Help You Begin Making a Life Insead of Just a Living.
The success of their effort was evident at her funeral there yesterday, where Muslims from Pakistan and Morocco prayed shoulder to shoulder with American black converts.
"Why not enjoy Hazel's success?
She was drawn to music and acting early in life, but did not set her sights on an operatic career until she had achieved some modest success as a popular singer.
Miss Kirsten's Metropolitan Opera debut, as Mimi in "La Boheme" on Dec. 1, 1945, was a critical success, and was the start of a 30-year association with the house.
Part of the success of her teaching lay in her pithy instructions to students.
Her first success was with the 1948 "Ballet Ballads," a suite of dances she created with Katherine Litz and Paul Godkin to music composed by Jerome Moross, with lyrics by John Latouche.
As a result of the success of her dance, "The Eccentricities of Davy Crockett," Miss Holm was invited to choreograph "Kiss Me, Kate" in 1948 and won a New York Drama Critics Award.
She found he had revised his theories to stress that the actor should create by imagination rather than by memory and that the key to success was "truth, truth in the circumstances of the play.
In the Group Theater, Miss Adler won high praise for performances in such realistic dramas as "Success Story" by John Howard Lawson and two seminal Clifford Odets plays, "Awake and Sing!
