Letter Added for Luck
        Early in her radio career, she changed the spelling of her first name to Ireene with three ''e's'' when she was told by a numerologist that one more letter would bring her great success.
''
        In 1935 she married Vincent Sheean, the noted American foreign correspondent, whose book ''Personal History'' was published to great success that year.
''
        Other credits included work as executive producer or co-producer on the films ''The Last of Sheila,'' ''The Seven Percent Solution,'' ''Nijinsky,'' ''Pennies From Heaven'' and ''The Secret of My Success.
It was a tremendous success, running for more than three years.
It was a tremendous success, running for more than three years.
'' Developed a Following
        Her film career rocketed with the success of ''Kind Hearts and Coronets,'' and Miss Greenwood gained a following on both sides of the Atlantic.
'' Married in 1938
        The success of ''Loch Lomond'' led to an engagement for her at the Onyx Club on 52d Street.
She had a brilliant success in the world premiere of ''Casanova'' in 1928 and thereafter devoted her energies mainly to operetta.
In fact, she attributed part of her success to not hesitating to drop writers who displeased her.
Dalida, whose real name was Yolande Gigliotti, was born in 1933 and was an entertainment success in Europe and the Middle East for more than 30 years.
Miss Hartman enjoyed sudden success as a film actress following her ''Patch'' role and Academy Award nomination, but her career declined in succeeding years.
''That initial success beat me down,'' Miss Hartman, a tense, fragile-looking redhead, said in a 1969 interview.
In 1962, with the release of the film versions of ''Summer and Smoke'' and ''Sweet Bird of Youth,'' she found herself, after 10 years on the stage, being hailed as an ''overnight success.
Meeting with little success, she decided to return to Australia by way of New York.
''
        Mary Astor was born Lucile Langhanke on May 3, 1906, in Quincy, Ill., the only child of the former Helen Vasconcells, an American, and Otto Ludwig Wilhelm Langhanke, a German immigrant who made an uncertain income from such diverse activities as teaching German and poultry farming until he began to cash in on his daughter's film success.
'' It was a box-office success, as was her next play, ''Margin for Error,'' which purveyed a modish anti-Nazism.
The work, ''Concerto in Three Rhythms,'' was such a success that the next year, another Whiteman commission, ''Symphonic Waltzes,'' followed.
