Miss Laye made her stage debut at the age of 15 and enjoyed her first big success in "The Merry Widow" in 1923.
She spent the next six years as  a radar engineer with Sperry Gyroscope's Advanced Studies Department in Lake Success, N.Y. She held patents on radar receivers.
She also appeared in more than 50 movies, most of them Mexican musicals of indifferent quality that owed their commercial  success to her remarkable popularity and her dark, keening voice.
Several prominent politicians, including Senators Sam Ervin and  Jesse Helms, tried without success to get Presidents to nominate her to the nation's highest court.
However, despite the enormous success of her screenplay for Alain Resnais's 1960 classic, "Hiroshima, Mon Amour," few of the  19 movies she wrote and directed herself did well, not least because words often entirely replaced action.
"
        Even at the pinnacle of success, earning $500,000 to $1 million a year, Mrs.  Bombeck made cleaning house, grocery shopping and cooking dinner a part of her weekly routine.
Encouraged by friends, Miss Travers published "Mary Poppins," which was an immediate critical success.
Ms. O'Donnell produced and directed several films, but her greatest critical  success came with "Crumb," a dark portrait of the underground cartoonist Robert  Crumb and his family.
Miss Garson became an instant success as a captivating young wife in the sentimental 1939 film "Goodbye, Mr.
Her success  was recorded later that year on the ABC television show "Incredible Saturday," and she appeared at benefits for the American Cancer Society and the City of Hope Medical Center.
In fact, she said, the act "has been one of the biggest success stories of the conservation movement in America," contending that many myths had been spread about the act's supposedly onerous effects.

        Faithful followers of soap operas have learned over the years that after a brief and bitter first marriage a young single mother can find love, marriage and singular professional success with a much older man, but now the question is:
        Can a career woman who sacrificed her leisure to keep a nation of enthralled  housewives glued to their radios for the better part of two decades survive a heart-wrenching regimen of producing as many as 90 cliff-hanging episodes a week to live a full, rich and long life?
It was a reflection of the grip the Hummerts had on their audience that their programs generated more than five million letters a year, and it was a measure of their commercial success that by 1939 Hummert programs accounted for more than half the advertising revenues generated by daytime radio.
"
        From 'The Lady Lies' To the Milk of Asses
        Miss Colbert had her first film success in 1929, as the heroine of the talkie "The Lady Lies.
"
        Miss Colbert's most noteworthy stage vehicles included "The Barker" (1927), a box-office hit in which she played an alluring snake charmer; Eugene O'Neill's "Dynamo," which was produced by the Theater Guild in 1929 and won her considerable prestige, although it was not a popular success, and the fluffy comedy "The Marriage-Go-Round," a smash hit that opened in 1958 co-starring Charles Boyer, with whom she had also appeared in such films as "Private Worlds" (1935) and "Tovarich" (1937).
An important ingredient in her early success in the theater was her skill asa speaker.
Mrs. Mason said that part of her later success was that she left school at age 9; education, she said, only confuses the mind.
The maps were an instant success, and have sold countless millions of copies since, the favorite of visitors and Londoners alike, including the cab drivers and others whose job it is to make their way around the city.
But Annabella achieved only minor success in her adopted country.
Lear's began publication in 1988 and was a success.
She had her greatest success as June Buckridge in Frank Marcus's ''Killing of Sister George.
'' She credited her husband, Lionel Trilling -- one of the century's foremost literary critics and teachers and the author of works like ''The Liberal Imagination'' that became central documents of American intellectual life -- with her success and development as a critical writer, even as she struggled to establish herself in her own right in later years.
