For all her success in the United States, Miss Karff, who was forever sailing off to Europe or South America for tournaments, fared less well in top international competition.
For those moments of success, it's worth the price.
After she won her Olympic gold medal, her husband, Aurel Naicu, who had limited success as a discus thrower and coach, bought an expensive American car in Mexico City and sent it to Bucharest.
''
        With the rise of the black power movement and the success of independence movements in Africa and the Caribbean, interest in the Schomburg grew.
The success of the book and of the television series, which ran from 1962 to 1968, helped persuade Mrs. Kampen to continue mining her life for comedy.
She reported on the fledgling United Nations and its agencies in Lake Success, N.Y., the interim headquarters of the organization.
''I already had a major success in Europe.
In the capricious world of show business, she never enjoyed splashy success, but in the backwaters of her profession, where most singers, after all, spend their entire careers, Miss Cisyk, a tiny, slender woman with a smile as big as her heart, made her share of waves.
She found greater success in her solo career; Cashbox magazine named her Top Female Country Vocalist of 1963.
The extraordinary success that followed propelled Mr. Dilenschneider to the top of Hill & Knowlton, the world's largest public relations firm, and Ms. Connelly rose to become its first female executive vice president and head of worldwide business development.

        Helen Ward, who sang with the Benny Goodman band in the 1930's, died on April 21 at the Vencor Hospital in Arlington, Va. She was 82 and lived in Falls Church, Va.
        Ms. Ward's supple voice, her easygoing sense of swing and her alluring stage presence were essential to the Goodman band's early success.
Its success and her succinct prose led Mr. Chujoy to invite her to Dance News.
''
        Success in summer stock eventually led to Broadway, and opening night was filled with minor disasters.
''
        Mr. Lindsay attributed the phenomenal success to the fact that the play was not just a comedy but also had a tender, familial side: ''People who see 'Life with Father' are emotionally moved as well as amused.
''
        To some latter-day feminists, Miss Polykoff was somewhat perplexing, on the one hand an obvious pioneering role model for professional women, on the other a woman whose success, which included such campaigns as ''Is It True Blondes Have More Fun?
For all her ambition and outsized success as a woman, Miss Polykoff was cut from a pre-feminist mold, never forgetting, as she often put it, that she was ''a girl first and an advertising woman second.
Her first success came with ''The Incredible Journey,'' a novel by Sheila Burnford about the travels of two dogs and a cat across the Canadian wilderness.
In a business world where women have had to pick their way through contradictory advice on how to dress for success, Sister Irene never had a wardrobe worry.
With her strawberry blond hair, gleaming smile and rich Oklahoma twang -- Mrs. Carnegie was a student of Mr. Carnegie as well as his wife -- she proved as big a success in business as he was in motivational speaking.
Mrs. Blumkin stood just 4 feet 10 inches in her prime, but her merchandising skills and daring as she made the long journey from an impoverished childhood in Russia to success led figures like Warren E. Buffett to rank her as a business giant.
Some of her colleagues predictably complained that the course's success was based more on showmanship than scholarship, but Dr. Butler, many of whose students went on to to teach children's literature at other colleges, was no slacker as a scholar.
As a reporter and editor for The Washington Star for 15 years, Ms. House had won visibility and success covering the District of Columbia Police Department and local courts, one of the few women at the time to work that beat.
Though Miss Hickson acted in more than 80 movies and had a considerable stage career, it was as Miss Marple, a role she took on in her late 70's, that she achieved her most success and her greatest renown.
Though Dr. Calderone saw serendipity as a major architect of her success, she did not always lead a charmed life.
It was not a success and she did not build again.
The success of the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical ''Evita'' in the 1970's and the appearance of the movie version in 1996 revived interest in Ms. Main's book, and it was republished several times in the United States and Britain.
That role, The Daily Telegraph said on Saturday, was her greatest success, and ''as an actress, she knew, like Garbo, when to quit.
Her success with their dream was such that when the center turned 50 in 1993 and called itself ''a glorious home for dance, music, opera and dozens of extraordinary musicals and plays,'' there were many who thought the phrase an understatement of what Miss Dalrymple had accomplished.
Encouraged by this success, she wrote more stories for a Philadelphia paper, receiving $5 for each one.
The season was a critical and box-office success.
As a producer, Miss Dalrymple tended to play down her adroit handling of the press, which is critical in the success of even the most expertly produced play.
At the time, the play's director, Jacques Hebertot, predicted, ''You will carry this role throughout your life, a slave to the success it will bring you.
In a career that began in 1935, Ms. Godden published some 70 novels, children's books, memoirs, biographies and collections of poetry and  stories, many set in India, where she spent her childhood and had her first success as a writer.
Ms. Godden's third novel, ''Black Narcissus'' (1939), first brought her critical attention and commercial success.
The key to her success in therapy with Indian patients was her understanding of the importance placed on a balance of life's forces, and she often asked family members to join in the therapy, Dr.
Then she guided the show to its Broadway success.
