Whether on the verge of success or not, she was called home to Grey Gardens by her mother, who said she was ill and needed her.
''
        Her success also made her more acceptable to an initially chilly Hollywood film community, which had held her suspect for wartime adventures, later described in her searing memoir, ''The Gift Horse'' (McGraw-Hill, 1971).
Success was measured by the innumerable Castro convertibles in apartments and houses.
Her biggest success was surely her idea of using Bernadette, starting at the age of 4, wearing a white nightgown and sausage curls, in television commercials for the sofas.
The film's success led the team to make ''Joe Leahy's Neighbors'' (1989), about the political and cultural struggles of a mixed-race coffee planter, and ''Black Harvest'' (1992), about land and money disputes and their escalation into tribal warfare.
Her ''Gefängnistagebuch'' proved to be a particularly enduring success.
It was a success, but her refusal to join the Nazi Party or any of its affiliates led to her ouster from the writers' guild in 1942.
Her biographers tend to agree that she was a great success as a debutante, flirting wildly and constantly fending off a large coterie of broken-hearted suitors, one of whom reportedly -- and unromantically -- serenaded her by cracking his hunting whip under her bedroom window at night.
Success was measured by the innumerable Castro convertibles in apartments and houses.
Her biggest success was surely her idea of using Bernadette, starting at the age of 4, wearing a white nightgown and sausage curls, in television commercials for the sofas.
And Barbie's fly-off-the-shelf popularity transformed the sleepy company that sold the doll, Mattel Inc., into a postwar success story.
She was cast so often as a notorious or strong-minded woman that those characteristics became indistinguishable from her own tempestuous personality in the minds of many fans, especially after the success of early films with titles like ''Woman Without a Soul.
It had a solemn induction ceremony, based on a Taino Indian ritual, in which ''aspirantes'' held candles and pledged to pursue educational excellence and to dedicate their success to their community.
The girls' father was an immigrant from Vladivostok, Russia, who made his start in America selling chickens from a wagon and, in the classic New World success story, wound up owning movie theaters in three states.
'' The column was an immediate success, and quickly went into syndication.
The girls' father was an immigrant from Vladivostok, Russia, who made his start in America selling chickens from a wagon and, in the classic New World success story, wound up owning movie theaters in three states.
'' The column was an immediate success, and quickly went into syndication.

        Dolores Gray, a singer and actress whose success on Broadway and London's West End led to starring roles in several 1950's Hollywood musical extravaganzas, died on Wednesday in her Manhattan apartment.
Her first major success was playing the lead in ''Annie Get Your Gun'' in London in 1947.
''
        Her London success led to major Broadway roles.
In 1948, Betty Clooney quit the Pastor band, but Rosemary stayed with him another year before she left as well, hopeful of success because she had signed a contract with Columbia Records.
The success emboldened Mr. Miller to assign her to other novelty songs, most notably ''Botcha Me'' and ''Mambo Italiano'' that also became hits.
At the same time, you can't quarrel with success.
Rosemary stayed another year before she left, hopeful of success because she had signed a contract with Columbia Records.
The success emboldened Mr. Miller to assign her to other novelty songs, most notably ''Botcha Me'' and ''Mambo Italiano,'' which also became hits.
At the same time, you can't quarrel with success.
''She was vitally interested in the company and its success and its maintaining its journalistic independence and standard of accuracy in its news reporting,'' he said.
Even as Ms. Slobodkina found success in writing and illustrating books, she continued her paintings, textiles and sculptures.
Her stubbornness was vindicated when her Museo Dolores Olmedo Patiño, on the southern outskirts of Mexico City, was judged an artistic success.
The improvised ''Oh What A Lovely War,'' which brought Theater Workshop its greatest success, was a satire of World War I done in 1963 as a music hall revue with the actors in black-and-white commedia dell'arte costumes.
''
        She also gave William Saroyan's ''Sam, the Highest Jumper of Them All'' its world premiere, enjoyed success with Wolf Mankowitz's ''Make Me an Offer'' and the ex-convict Frank Norman's ''Fings Ain't What They Used to Be,'' and discovered talent that ranged from John Bury, later the National Theater's head of design, to Richard Harris, who played Macbeth for her.
She was already an academic and social success at Oxford University when John Betjeman, one of the many literary figures she befriended, called her ''the aesthetes' moll.
She received good reviews for her history ''Jameson's Raid'' in 1960 and then achieved widespread success with the biography ''Victoria R.
Her first big stage success came in 1942 in Terence Rattigan's ''Flare Path,'' a wartime drama about a bomber base that Winston Churchill called his favorite play.
But unlike other British actresses of the time, like Vivien Leigh and Deborah Kerr, she did not repeat her British success with American audiences.
Her athletic success was remarkable considering her health.
She liked what it brought, especially a Mercedes-Benz and a Malibu home after her 1984 Olympic success.
Ms. Carroll more than made up for the brevity of that run with two enormous success during the 1970's.
That show, ''Your Arms Too Short to Box With God,'' with music and lyrics by Alex Bradford and Micki Grant, turned out to be a big success, spawning several national tours and two return trips to Broadway, including a 1982 version starred Patti LaBelle and Al Green.
