Her heroines -- intelligent and successful but also riddled with self-doubt -- sought enduring love a little ambivalently, but they didn't always find it, and their hard-earned sense of self-worth was often shadowed by the frustrating knowledge that American women's lives continued to be measured by their success at capturing the right man.
Her first major success came quickly, with ''Uncommon Women'' in 1977, produced by the Phoenix Theater.
Café Nicholson became an instant success among fashionistas, bohemians and artists.
Their praise immediately elevated Ms. Bedford's literary reputation and made the book a commercial success.
But she was dating a young physicist who felt threatened by her success.
But she was dating a young physicist who felt threatened by her success.
Ms. Caldwell's longest period of success came in the 1970's, when the company was thriving and her visibility as a conductor was growing.
She might not have fulfilled her promise, but for a good dozen years Ms. Moffo enjoyed enormous success and won a devoted following at a time when her competition for roles like Verdi's Violetta, Puccini's Mimi and Donizetti's Lucia included Maria Callas, Renata Tebaldi and Joan Sutherland.
Other actresses were auditioned, without success.
She told a newspaper: ''He can't sell his lousy paintings, and I have had a lot of success.
But she achieved her greatest critical success when she read Ms.
With the success of Kartell, Ms. Castelli Ferrieri and her husband helped fuel the explosion of Italian modern design in the 60's, 70's and 80's, much as her father had galvanized the cultural scene in his day.
She attributed her lobbying success to what she called her BAT theory: ''I don't beg,'' she said.
Ms. Church's success was a historic achievement in an industry that had been especially resistant to using any but white models to represent beauty on magazine covers, advertisements and runways.
The London performances were an enormous success, and she was invited to join the newly founded Covent Garden company.
Her success brought unprecedented attention to the race.
''
        Her defeat in 1994, coming in a year of sweeping Republican success at the polls nationwide, did not dim her celebrity on the national stage.
Ms. Russell's was a career that could only have been a success at a time when classical music culture was near the center of popular awareness and public education.
'' One did, but the marriage was not a success.
Her first show was in 1959, which was an immediate success.
After middling success in Hollywood, Eve Harrington is back in New York, determined to revive her career.
Their next film, ''The Chronicle of Anna-Magdalena Bach,'' was their first international success.
''Follies'' was only the start of her success with Prince-directed shows: she went on to win Tony Awards for her designs in ''A Little Night Music'' (1973), ''Pacific Overtures'' (1976), ''Grind'' (1985), ''Kiss of the Spider Woman'' (1993) and the 1994 revival of ''Show Boat.
Ms. O'Day always maintained that her notoriety helped fuel her success, and the music doesn't contradict her.
The act's success earned them a movie offer, and the Revuers traveled west in hopes of finding instant fame in ''Greenwich Village,'' a 1944 movie starring Carmen Miranda and Don Ameche, in which the newcomers turned out to be virtually invisible.
Ms. Comden and Mr. Green were definitely on their way up, not to the Bronx but to big-time success.
After the success of ''On the Town,'' Ms. Comden and Mr. Green tried their hands at writing the book for another Broadway musical.
They contributed heavily to the success of ''The Band Wagon'' (1953), the Vincente Minnelli musical for which they wrote the witty screenplay.
