'' But her tasteful furnishings reflected her success in saving and investing her sideshow income.
''It was quietly marvelous, sort of like Mozart,'' said Peter Workman,  the publishing house president, of the book's success.
The success of the first book led the three to answer readers' pleas for help after birth.
''
        Anne Morrow Lindbergh scored an immense literary success in midlife with her 1955 book ''Gift From the Sea'' ( Pantheon), which was a philosophical meditation on women's lives in this century.
When half a dozen bit parts in movies got her nowhere, she tried Broadway with somewhat more success.
In 1982 she scored another film success in ''Poltergeist'' as a psychologist moonlighting as a parapsychologist.
And her private life was shadowed  by her success and her travels as an actress.
''
        In June 1998, after earlier success in dismantling a drug operation at the Castle Hotel at 106th Street and Central Park West, she was assigned to take on the Black Top gang, named for the color of the caps on their crack vials.
''
        At the height of her success, Ms. Coca, who won an Emmy as the best actress of 1951, was making $10,000 a week.
Mrs. Graham's courage in supporting her reporters and editors through the long investigation was critical to its success.
When she returned to La Scala in 1929, under the name Gina Cigna, she had a great success as Donna Elvira in Mozart's ''Don Giovanni'' and a few weeks later as Elisabeth in Wagner's ''Tannhäuser.
For many years, she was a moderator and host of radio and television programs under the titles ''Focus on the Black Woman'' and ''In the Black: Keys to Success.
But the success of the exotic electronic instrument seems to have been diminished by small number of players.
She appeared in ''A Clearing in the Woods,'' ''A Touch of the Poet,'' ''Cheri,'' ''A Far Country'' and ''The Three Sisters,'' among other plays, but nothing came close to her success in ''Bus Stop'' except her performance in the 1958 film ''The Goddess,'' one of her rare forays into Hollywood.
Performance pressures also began to take their toll, and even after her shining success in ''Bus Stop,'' stories began to circulate about her profound malaise each night at curtain time.
Against other disabled skiers, her success was overwhelming.
'' Two years later she scored a London success as Queen Victoria in ''Portrait of a Queen.
She then went to Houston, where surgeons had reported success in rarely performed surgery for cancerous heart tumors.
These include ''Children's Experiences Prior to First Grade and Success in Beginning Reading,'' ''Young Children's Thinking: Studies of Some Aspects of Piaget's Theory'' and, with Celia Genishi, ''Ways of Studying Children: An Observation Manual for Early Childhood Teachers.

        Dorothy McGuire, who came to Hollywood from Broadway to repeat her 1941 stage success in the title role in ''Claudia,'' and went on to have a long and distinguished film career playing sensitive, intelligent and steadfast women, died yesterday in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 83.
She was right; the production was a great success.
''The Heiress,'' an adaptation of the Henry James novel ''Washington Square,'' brought the Goetzes great success when it opened on Broadway in 1947.
Soon it was an international success both on the stage and on the screen, and, Mrs. Goetz said, ''it gave James, long in his grave, the best seller he never had.
She began her acting career in 1944 in repertory theater in the north of England and traveled all over the country until the success of ''Sailor Beware'' established her reputation.
''Recognition is the key,'' Mrs. Ash said, explaining her success and how she devised her corporate symbols to reward her sales force.
One, labeled Ladder of Success, was a gold pin with each rung marked with a jewel.
Although the product line was added to over the years -- there are now more than 200 items for women and men in skin, hair, nail and body care and sun protection -- the Mary Kay formula for success changed little.
''Recognition is the key,'' Mrs. Ash said, explaining her success and how she devised her corporate symbols to reward her sales force.
One, labeled the Ladder of Success, was a gold pin with each rung marked with a jewel.
Although the product line was expanded over the years -- there are now more than 200 items for women and men in skin, hair, nail and body care and sun protection -- the Mary Kay formula for success changed little.
The couple followed up its success with ''How to Be Awake and Alive'' (Random House, 1975) and ''How to Take Charge of Your Life'' (Harcourt, Brace, 1977).
