' "  She served as executive director of the school until 1979 and also taught there.
She taught them tolerance and parental support rather than criticism.
She taught at rural Wisconsin schools, married Gilbert Manz, a steelworker, in 1929 and later moved to Milwaukee, where she became a housewife.
Professor Maxwell later became associate dean at San Diego and taught as a full professor.
She retired in 1980 as the Kenan Professor Emeritus of Biology and History of Science at Bryn Mawr College, where she had taught and done research for more than four decades.
Although she suffered from osteoporosis so painful that she found it difficult to sit in a wheelchair in her last months, Mrs. Bunce, who had taught  herself to knit lying down after entering the nursing home, insisted on being taken to the church in December to make her usual surreptitious donation of her  year's production.
After graduation, she taught dance for a short time before being hired as a drama coach for the Wayne P. Sewall Producing Company, a small Atlanta theatrical organization that sent directors into small Southern towns to stage amateur productions in local schools.
After graduation, she taught dance for a short time before being hired as a drama coach for the Wayne P. Sewall Producing Company, a small Atlanta theatrical organization that sent directors into small Southern towns to stage amateur productions in local schools.
" She taught voice and piano at Wesleyan University from 1972 to her death.
For several years, she taught courses related to aging at Yeshiva University.
She researched, taught and practiced psychiatry for six decades and was associated with Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons as a special lecturer until 1993.
She taught physical education and dance before coming to the United States in 1952.
Ms. Meredith-Jones received a master's degree from Columbia University and taught at Teachers College of Columbia University and the New School for Social  Research.
She helped prepare Thai materials for the armed  forces and taught the language in a special training program at Berkeley, an experience that led to her appointment as an assistant professor of Siamese and  linguistics in 1947.
She taught composition at Brooklyn College, City College of the City University of New York, the Manhattan School of Music and the Jewish Theological Seminary, and it  was at the seminary that she earned her doctorate in composition -- after nearly a quarter century as a teacher -- in 1970.
She taught lighting design at Smith College in 1967 and 1969, and at Yale Drama School in 1969 and 1970.
Between books, she taught writing at several universities, including the University of Georgia and Yale.
Most recently, she taught a graduate class in nonfiction at  Columbia.
She founded the Delza School of Tai Chi Chuan at Carnegie Hall in 1954 and later taught at schools including the State University of New York at Purchase,  the Actor's Studio and the University of Hawaii.
She also taught and lectured on tai chi in live appearances and on television, writing the first book in English on the subject.
At 12, she taught English to foreign-born neighbors.
She taught courses on modern art at colleges and universities across the country, including Cornell University and Columbia University.
From 1966 to 1976 she taught drama at Stephens College in Columbia, Mo.
After retiring, she taught briefly at several other colleges and universities, including the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
She made her United States debut as a solo dancer in 1928 in New York City and taught dance to the children of wealthy New York families.
She also taught and choreographed at the Ballet West summer school in Aspen, Colo.
        During the past three years, she taught at the Aspen Music Festival and was the resident choreographer of the Aspen Opera House.
She also taught and choreographed at the Ballet West summer school in Aspen, Colo.
        During the past three years, she taught at the Aspen Music Festival and was the resident choreographer of the Aspen Opera House.
Dr. Corwin, as she was know to her students and colleagues, was a professor emeritus of religion and biblical literature at Smith College, where she taught from 1930 until  retiring in 1966.
Originally a specialist in early Christianity, Dr. Corwin's intellectual curiosity about Buddhism, Confucianism, Hinduism, Islam and Shinto was stimulated by a course in world religions she taught as a young assistant professor.
So Phyllis moved to Paris, where she taught English, studied philosophy and Byzantine art, and made money by painting.
Ms. Talma taught at the Manhattan School of Music in the late 1920's, and at Hunter College for more than 50 years.
Her father, a stone mason, taught her how to fly-fish on the shores of the River Tweed by day, and how to tie flies at the kitchen table by night.
During her years as a performer, Mrs. Lawrence taught at the Juilliard School and the Curtis Institute of Music.
She taught at the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, at Barnard College and at the State University of New York at Brockport before joining the dance faculty at Wesleyan University in 1983.
Mrs. Selsam published her first book in 1946, ''From Egg to Chick,'' after having taught high school science in the New York City public school system.
She taught at Stanford for a while before coming to New York and beginning a part-time career as a teacher of creative writing, first at Columbia and later at New York University.
Like her husband, Mrs. Trocme, who taught Italian at the Cevenol school, was a thoroughgoing pacifist.
Accompanying her mother into tenements taught her about poverty, and Mrs. Farkas never forgot her mother's advice: ''No matter what your station in life, no matter what you grow up to be, always try to  contribute to those less fortunate than you.
Mrs. Kahlenberg, who was taught by her husband to operate a camera, was also involved in resistance communications, transporting munitions and the use of forged documents.
''
        His expertise was acquired; he held a doctorate from Columbia University, taught there in the company of brilliant colleagues and challenged students who went on to produce some of the country's finest literature and criticism.
She taught at the Philadelphia Musical Academy, the Settlement Music School in Philadelphia and the Third Street Music School in New York City.
In addition to teaching classical ballet and other dance techniques,  Mrs. Cuyjet taught her students that ''dancers were not hybrid creatures dropped down from the clouds with no relation to earth,'' as Ms. Jamison noted in her autobiography, ''Dancing Spirit.
From 1958 into the 1970's, Mrs. Cuyjet was on the dance faculty at Maryland State College (now the University of Maryland-Eastern Shore) and also taught at Delaware State College in Dover, and Cheney State University in Cheney, Pa. She closed her studio in 1971 and trained as a movement therapist, working at the Philadelphia State Hospital for 11 years.
She was 49 and lived in Chappaqua, N.Y.
        She suffered a long illness, according to the law school, where she had taught criminal law and procedure for 13 years.
She taught literature there and at Adelphi University, at the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University and, most recently, at the State University at Stony Brook, L.I., and at Queens College.
'' She taught Yiddish theater at Queens College, and for 40 years she and her husband broadcast in Yiddish on WEVD radio.
She taught modern dance for 25  years at such places as the Neighborhood Playhouse, the School of American Ballet and the 92d Street Y  and was a master teacher at New York University and other colleges in and around New York.
By 1960, after intensive physical therapy, she had taught herself to paint with oils with her left hand, which was stronger, and was able to draw and make watercolors with her right.
In the 1930's she studied and taught economics and finance in Paris, Geneva, Basel, Boston, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and Bryn Mawr.

        Miriam Levin Goldberg, who studied underachievement by gifted youths and taught at Teachers College of Columbia University, died on  Nov. 21 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center.
A doctor's daughter, Mrs. Gaiser was born in Ogdensburg, N.Y., received a bachelor's degree from Wellesley in 1923, and taught school in Bronxville, N.Y. until she married Mr. Jewett in 1925.
She taught Nordoff-Robbins music therapy at institutes and schools in London, Germany and Japan and traveled worldwide to lecture and teach.
She then taught at New Rochelle High School for 20 years until her retirement in 1976.
Afflicted with multiple sclerosis, Ms. Jordan died from viral pneumonia as a  complication of leukemia, according to officials of the University of Texas in Austin, where she taught.
In addition, she taught at Brooklyn College, SUNY Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn and New York University, from which she had received her master's degree in psychology.
She wrote about the history of jazz dancing and  taught around the world, at schools and festivals that included the International Ballet Competition in Jackson, Miss., in 1986 and 1990.
From 1929 to 1954, Dr. Eisenstein taught music education and the history of Jewish music at Jewish Theological Seminary's Teacher's Institute, now known as  the Albert A.
After receiving her degree, she taught there from 1966 to  1979, teaching as well at the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Philadelphia.
During World War II, she taught at the Jan Kazimierz University in Lvov, and participated in underground  teaching during the Nazi occupation.
