She taught at public junior high and high schools in Brooklyn for six years before opening the Busy Bee Nursery School and Kindergarten there in 1968.

        Kiharu Nakamura, a geisha in Tokyo in the 1930's who wrote a popular memoir and taught sopranos how to portray the most famous geisha in fiction, Madama Butterfly, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Jackson Heights, Queens.
She received a master's degree in education from Boston University, and staged operas and taught speech therapy, dance and drama in Boston and Cambridge, Mass.
Ms. Hagen read the play between classes and it so gripped her that she taught her final class, she said, ''in a daze.
She then taught at the Michigan State University School of Journalism until she retired in 1991.
N.Y. She also taught economics.
She also acted around the country and taught acting classes.
'' She taught only once a week, he said, adding: ''I'd think in between, 'Where does she go?
Ms. Schwarz and her sister, who were white, taught black students at a time when some white residents of Dayton frowned upon such classes.
She taught for 26 years at the Dance Division of the Juilliard School, which hired her on the recommendation of the ballet choreographer Antony Tudor, with whom she had worked in Europe.
At her death, Ms. Melikova was a guest instructor at Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, Va., where she had taught since 1996.
She also taught in New York City at the Igor Youskevitch School of Ballet and the Alvin Ailey American Dance Center.
From 1951 to 1961, she practiced clinical psychology in Houston, where her husband taught at the Baylor College of Medicine.
In 1960 she was named director of the school, where she taught the advanced classes for women.
She taught high school mathematics and was a guidance counselor at Wenonah High School in Birmingham.
''
        Before her marriage she taught at the Mary C. Wheeler School in Providence, R.I., and at the Buckley School in New York.
Before she became director of the variable-stars association, she briefly served as an assistant to her predecessor and taught physics and astronomy at the American College Institute in Turkey and Aegean University.
Born in Andover, Mass., Dr. Park was the oldest of four children of J. Edgar Park, a minister raised in Ireland who became president of Wheaton College, in Massachusetts, and Grace Burtt Park, who taught Greek and mathematics.
He taught his daughter photography and helped her set up her own darkroom, Dr. Henderson said.
From 1972 to 1985, Ms. Pape taught semiotics at the school of architecture at the Universidade Santa Ursula in Rio.
She taught voice and acting into the mid-1990's but performed only occasionally.
Returning to the kibbutz, she taught rhythm in school and began to write children's songs.
Peter Kennedy attributed much of the team's success to his father having taught them perseverance.
Although she wanted to be a writer, Ms. Danziger began working as a substitute teacher in 1967 and taught at the junior high school level for several years.
She also taught at the California College of the Arts from 1965 to 1998.
Helene Hovanec, the author of a book on crossword puzzle constructors called ''Creative Cruciverbalists'' (Morrow, 1988), said that Mrs. Hansen taught Sunday school for 12 years and noticed, when she quit, that her friends were addicted to the Sunday puzzle.
Dance especially fascinated her, and her love of the art grew during the 1930's, when she attended classes taught by Lester Horton, the Los Angeles area's most prominent modern dancer at that time.
From 1929 to 1933 the two women collaboratively produced advertising, still lifes and studio portraits that reflected the energetic, experimental style of their mentor, Walter Peterhans, a professional photographer who taught at the legendary Bauhaus design school.
In 1965 she began working as an educational therapist at the Educational Institute for Learning and Research in New York, where for 19 years she taught children with learning disabilities.
In the 1950's she taught languages at U.C.L.A., Goucher College in Maryland and New York University.
Over the next several years Professor Hanson taught at Swarthmore College, Bryn Mawr and New York University and was a consultant at the International Study Center of the Museum of Modern Art.
The cause was congestive heart failure, according to Smith College, where Dr. Lehmann taught for more than 30 years.
With a child to support, she taught herself transparency retouching, which paid well.
With a child to support, she taught herself transparency retouching, which paid well.
''
        Iris Shun-Ru Chang was born on March 28, 1968, in Princeton, N.J. She grew up in Champaign-Urbana, Ill., where her father, a physicist, and her mother, a microbiologist, taught at the University of Illinois.
'' He added, ''She taught today's teachers.
She was an adjunct professor at Lehigh University from 1964 to 1979 and later taught at N.Y.U.
She founded the college's anthropology department and taught there from 1938 until her retirement in 1975.
''
        Frederica Annis Lopez de Leo de Laguna, almost always called Freddy, was born on Oct. 3, 1906, in Ann Arbor, Mich. She grew up in Bryn Mawr, where her parents taught philosophy.

        Miriam Schlein, whose nearly one hundred books, written over half a century, taught very young children about animals and concepts like time and space, died on Nov. 23 in New York.
At Chicago she wandered into a class taught by the sociologist Philip Rieff, then a 28-year-old instructor, who would write the celebrated study ''Freud: The Mind of the Moralist'' (Viking, 1959).
She received a master's degree from the University of Iowa the next near and taught English there until 1946.
Born in Corvallis, Ore., Dr. Yocom taught dance at schools and universities in Oregon, Idaho and Utah after receiving her doctorate at New York University in 1951.
