All along, until her work at the foundation and center became a primary occupation, she privately taught piano, singing and painting.
For her part, she was sometimes taught at home and sometimes in school.
She taught briefly after her graduation in 1951, but when the Lyric was founded, originally as the Lyric Theater, she joined it as a secretary, chorister and occasional soloist.

        Tatiana C. Bouteneff, who taught French and Russian at the Nightingale-Bamford School in Manhattan for 37 years and who was long prominent in efforts to raise money for White Russian causes in New York, died on Jan. 15 at her sister's home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 69 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Cornwall, N.Y.
Miss Garbousova taught at the Hartt School of Music in West Hartford, Conn., and at Northern Illinois University in De Kalb and gave master classes at many other schools.
Although she was clearly upstaged by her renowned husband, who taught at the Union Theological Seminary, Mrs. Niebuhr's own scholarship was so well regarded that in the 1940's she was asked by the president of Barnard to create a department of religion there.
Dr. Wu, the Michael I. Pupin Professor Emeritus of Physics at Columbia University, where she carried out research and taught for 37 years, was known throughout her career as a meticulously accurate experimental physicist who was in demand to put new theories to the test.
She taught at Smith College and Princeton University before being asked to join the Manhattan Project, the Army's secret project to develop the atomic bomb in World War II.
Taught, as were most girls of her class, that her goal was to marry well, she developed an exceptional ability to beguile men.
After obtaining a doctorate in public law from Columbia University, she taught sociology and political theory.
She taught courses on free expression at Queens College of the City University of New York and the New School of Social Research, and wrote and lectured widely on freedom of expression.
''
        A noted teacher of the Graham dance technique, Miss Marchowsky taught for many years in her own studio in New York and was also director of dance at Caltech in Pasadena, Calif.
        Ms. Marchowsky formed a small company in 1946 when she presented works with music by contemporary American composers.
She served as chief yeoman in the Navy in World War I and as a judge advocate in the Army in World War II, taught school in Puerto Rico, ran a flying school, turned out columns for The New York World, wrote half a dozen books, founded The Murray Hills News, represented celebrated murder defendants, ran repeatedly for Congress, corresponded with George Bernard Shaw, feuded with Eleanor Roosevelt, hobnobbed with the King of Greece, turned down marriage proposals from Harry K. Thaw and Fiorello H. La Guardia, and so clouded the issue of her age that even her own family is not sure if she was 99 or 103.
Preschoolers were taught by people in gold and black fake-fur bee costumes to Do-Bee a milk drinker and Don't-Bee a spoilsport.
Miss Schonberg had an abiding interest in all forms of dance and taught choreographic fundamentals with equal sensitivity to modern dancers and ballet dancers and to traditionalists and experimentalists.
In recent years she had also taught at Dance Theater of Harlem and Dance Theater Workshop.
After the war, Miss Schonberg's parents separated and her mother returned with her children to the United States and taught music at the University of Oregon in Eugene.
Over the years she also taught at the American Dance Festival and many colleges and dance centers in the United States and Britain.
''My grandaddy taught me something I've never forgotten,'' she said in a 1970 interview.
Mrs. Heins was a founder of the Center for the Study of Children's Literature at Simmons College in Boston, where she also taught as an adjunct professor for 10 years.
Until his death in 1994, they often taught together.
In later years, she taught at the Ballet Theater School, the Ballet Russe School, the New York Conservatory of Dance and other New York schools.
After the festival was discontinued, she helped found the Mercury Ballet Company of Rochester, taught at her own ballet school and choreographed for the Rochester Music Theater.
She taught at Chicago Medical School, the Chicago Institute of Psychoanalysis and the University of Chicago.
But it was not until well after she had obtained a teaching certificate in New Jersey and had taught there just long enough to realize she couldn't stand it, that she began to find outlets.
She taught me how to fly.
Born in Los Angeles, she earned one doctorate in English literature and another in linguistics at the University of California at Los Angeles, where she also taught.
''She could improve any piece of copy, but she ultimately taught you how to improve your own copy,'' he recalled yesterday.
Ms. Cruso's work led to frequent appearances on the ''Tonight'' show, where she taught Johnny Carson how to compost eggshells in a closet.
Before  joining Towson in 1967, she taught at Wellesley College in Massachusetts, San Francisco State College and Goucher College in Towson.
In one particularly poignant scene that was redolent of the contempt that burakumin used to be taught to feel for themselves, a young burakumin woman fears she is pregnant and then is relieved that she is not -- because her baby would be a filthy burakumin.
She did research at Johns Hopkins University and the University of Michigan and taught at Brooklyn College and New York University.
One thing this taught her students was how to concentrate, for the would-be clowns had to practice their juggling while wobbly unicyclists zipped between them.
Her brother Victor worked and taught at the school.

        Mary Jane Brown, a tap dancer who taught at the Juilliard School, died on July 12 at the Gilchrist Center for Hospice Care in Baltimore.
''
        After study in ballet with Anderson-Ivantzova and Spanish dance with Angel Cansino, Ms. Brown taught tap to children at her own school in the Bronx for 25 years.
From 1989 to 1991, she taught in the drama and dance divisions at Juilliard.
After moving to Baltimore in 1991, she taught at the Peabody Preparatory Program until this year.
While in graduate school, she taught French literature and language full time at Hunter College High School.
''
        After Miss Jepson retired from the stage in 1947, she became a speech therapist in New Jersey schools, and taught speech therapy at Fairleigh Dickinson University.
Ms. Browne was also the artistic director of the Aristaccato Tap Company, a group of inner-city Bronx youths to whom she had taught tap and jazz technique, performing skills and history at the school she founded in the borough.
Miss Pepper also was a professor in the architecture department of the New York Institute of Technology, taught and lectured elsewhere and remained active as a teacher into her 80's.
In the late 1940's, she taught in Los Angeles, where one of her pupils was Marilyn Monroe.
She taught school for a time in Milwaukee but in 1951, came to New York in search, she said, of an interesting job.
''
        In 1962, Miss Harshaw became a professor of voice at Indiana University, where she taught until 1993.
She taught at Teachers College, the University of Omaha, Western Reserve University, the Columbia University School of the Arts and the Juilliard School.
After that, the couple taught at the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y., and then moved to Hawaii after Ms. Hubert Allison became ill in 1995.
''
        She taught at colleges and universities, and served as poetry editor of The Nation and Mother Jones.
In recent years she taught voice in Culver City.
Born in Denver, she graduated from Smith in 1922 and earned a doctorate seven years later at Bryn Mawr College, where she taught for several years.
Returning to Smith, she taught philosophy until she was named archivist in 1940.
