Dr. Bender taught at the University of Maryland and was a consultant to the Children's Guild Inc., a group that works with emotionally disturbed youngsters, and similar organizations.
Mrs. Levine, a native of Valley Falls, R.I., taught at New York University from 1947 until she retired in 1967.
Mrs. Varian also taught courses in museology and art history at Finch.
She taught at Queensborough Community College of the City University.

       Josephine Scacciaferro, who taught Italian in New York City high schools for 22 years, died Tuesday at her home in Nutley, N.J. She was 88 years old.
Josephine Scacciaferro, who taught Italian in New York City high schools for 22 years, died Tuesday at her home in Nutley, N.J. She was 88 years old.
'' For the next decade she taught comparative literature at Sarah Lawrence College.
Before becoming director of the school, Mrs. Lewis had taught there for more than 10 years.
She taught in the public schools of Laurinburg, Va., for more than 40 years.
She also taught creative writing at Columbia University.
She taught at the Ethical Culture School in Manhattan and the Wiltwyck School for Boys.
She taught art history for 37 years at the Spence School, where she inspired many future scholars, including Joan R. Mertens, curator of Greek and Roman art at the Metropolitan Museum.
She came to the United States in 1925 and taught Italian at Vassar, from which she also received a master's degree in art history.
In the introduction to her art history course at Spence, where she taught from 1943 to 1980, Mrs. Barr wrote:
        ''I spend no time defining what is art, you'll soon know.
Dr. Kestenbaum, a native of New York City, had taught at Hebrew University for 15 years.
Earlier, she had taught at the women's division of Roberts College in Constantinople, now Istanbul, and in Florence and Albuquerque, N.M.
She taught in the city's elementary schools for more than 50 years, starting in 1909.
A former resident of Manhattan, she retired to Amherst in 1976, where she taught courses in the Bible and modern Jewish thought, sponsored by the Judaic Studies department of the University of Massachusetts.
'' In Washington, she taught history and Russian language and was an editor for The National Jewish Monthly.
Mrs. Gill, the wife of Howard Read Gill, the co-founder and chairman of Golf Digest Magazine, taught remedial reading at New Canaan High School in the 1970's.
Earlier she had taught at Bennett Junior College, Millbrook, N.Y. and at Yenching College for Women, Beijing.
After the war, she moved to New Orleans, where she taught singing as Anni Frind-Sperling.
      
After her retirement in 1968, she taught for several years at the New School for Social Research.
While in Hollywood, Miss Gray also helped form the New Studio for Dancers and Actors and taught dance at private and university studios.
Educated as a pianist and music theorist, Ms. Auerbach began her stage career at the Manhattan School of Music, where she at first taught music theory and then founded the school's children's opera program in 1969.
She taught school for four years, working closely with the children of new immigrants.
'' Though afflicted with arthritis, Miss Maracci taught in studios throughout Hollywood until 1985.
''
        Passionately opinionated, Miss Maracci taught classes with a Socratic tinge, including talk of politics and the other arts of the time.
Mrs. Dowling, who was born in New York City, performed and taught violin in this country and in London, Tokyo and New York.
She taught at some of the leading ballet studios in New York, among them the schools of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, American Ballet Theater, the June Taylor School and the Igor Youskevitch studio.
Miss Swoboda lived in Lakewood, N.J. She taught at her own ballet schools in Asbury Park and Spring Lake and had conducted classes as a guest teacher at ballet companies around the country.
At various times she taught in the Wisconsin and New Jersey public schools, at Columbia University, the University of Buffalo and Brooklyn College.
She also taught sculpture for many years in her penthouse studio at the Ansonia Hotel, and did many commissioned busts.

       Beatrice Joy Chute, a novelist and short-story writer who was also a past president of the PEN American Center and taught for many years at Barnard College, died of a heart attack Sept. 6 at Bellevue Hospital Center.
Beatrice Joy Chute, a novelist and short-story writer who was also a past president of the PEN American Center and taught for many years at Barnard College, died of a heart attack Sept. 6 at Bellevue Hospital Center.
Taught at Barnard
        Her most recent novel, ''The Good Woman'' (1986), was a parable about a lonely woman who abandons her home for a journey of spiritual awakening while living on the streets.
She became an adjunct professor of English at Barnard College in 1964, and taught creative writing there until her death.
Miss Rittler taught at the Edward S. Harkness Eye Institute at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons from 1936 until her retirement in 1971.
Mrs. Raditsa taught French and English at Fairleigh Dickinson for many years, retiring in 1977.
She also taught children with learning disabilities at her home in Manhattan.
Miss vonHesse taught Mr. Rockefeller and Mr. Herter during their respective campaigns for governor of New York and governor of Massachusetts.
She was born in Denver and graduated from Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla. She contended she never needed speech lessons because she came from ''a long line of preachers and teachers, who taught us early to appreciate the power of words.
Modeled Hats and Taught French
        Miss Carroll was graduated from Birmingham University with a B.A.
She did not attend college but instead traveled to Russia, where she taught English in Leningrad for five years.
