She graduated from Hunter College and taught English in New York City.
In the last 20 years, she also wrote freelance newspaper and magazine articles, many of them for The Times, taught journalism at the University of California at Berkeley and was a consultant to newspapers, among them The Oakland Tribune.
In the last 20 years, she also wrote freelance newspaper and magazine articles, many of them for The Times, taught journalism at the University of California at Berkeley and was a consultant to newspapers, among them The Oakland Tribune.
Dr. Cancogni taught at Harvard and at Queens College in New York and in the Paris program of the University of California at Berkeley.
The daughter of a missionary teacher, Miss Wood was born in Nara, Japan, and grew up in Bloomington, Ill. After receiving bachelor's and master's degrees in rhetoric at the University of Michigan, she taught English for four years at Vassar College.
She earned a bachelor of fine arts degree and a teaching certificate from the Tyler School of Art in Philadelphia in 1962 and taught sculpture at the School of Visual Arts in Manhattan for many years.

        Mitzi Berger Hamovitch, an English professor who taught at Queens College for more than 30 years, died on Thursday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I.
She joined the Smith faculty that year and taught there until her retirement in 1968.
In 1969, after her retirement from Smith, she taught at the University of Iowa.
Taught at Marymount
        As a learning disabilities specialist, Dr. Clark taught the teaching of reading to children and young adults at the Nightingale-Bamford School and at the Communications and Learning Center of Marymount Manhattan College.
Taught at Marymount
        As a learning disabilities specialist, Dr. Clark taught the teaching of reading to children and young adults at the Nightingale-Bamford School and at the Communications and Learning Center of Marymount Manhattan College.
She taught at the University of Maryland, George Washington University, New York University and Upsala College.
After graduating from Hunter College, she taught school for several years.
She taught about them at New York University and at La Guardia, Manhattan Community and Hunter Colleges.
She taught English at City College before joining the association in 1980.
She taught in the public schools and at one time worked for Merck & Company, writing abstracts on new drugs.
She taught at the Accademia di S. Cecilia in Rome.
      
She taught there and at New York University.

        Dr. Alice Ettinger, who helped to bring new X-ray techniques to diagnose gastrointestinal illness to the United States and taught radiology for five decades at the Tufts University School of Medicine, died on April 14 at the Norwood Retirement and Nursing Home in Norwood, Mass.
She taught family life and sex education at Pace University for nine years before becoming professor emeritus.
She taught there and at New York University.
She also taught for many years as a clinical assistant professor of medicine at New York Medical College and worked on the staff of Metropolitan Hospital Center and Beth Israel Hospital North.
She also taught acting in California and New York.
      
In Yale's early years of coeducation in the 1970's, she taught a course on black women and served on the executive committee for the women's studies program.
Active in Politics
        She taught Russian at Cornell, Columbia and Indiana Universities, at the University of Michigan and at Hunter College.
After graduating from college and earning a master's degree in education at Hunter College, she taught foreign languages at public schools in Manhattan and Queens.
From 1976 until two years ago, she taught courses on the history of Western music and opera history.
Mrs. Carroll was born in North Carolina and taught English for several years before becoming a paymaster in the Navy during World War II.
She taught for more than 40 years at Brooklyn College and served as chairwoman of its English department.
She also taught at Columbia, Hunter College, the University of Vermont, the University of Colorado, the University of Utah, the University of Arkansas and the New School for Social Research.

        Muriel Clara Bradbrook, a leading British authority on Shakespeare who taught at Girton College at Cambridge University, died on June 11 in Cambridge.
Taught Elementary Schoolers
        Arleen Auger was born in South Gate, Calif., on Sept. 13, 1939.
For the next four years, she taught elementary school in Chicago, Denver and Los Angeles.
She also expanded her recital repertory and took a teaching position at the Academy of Music and Drama in Frankfurt, where she taught until 1987.
Before her work at the Academy, she was a member of the faculty of the Henry Street Settlement House and at the Dalcroze School of Music and taught many private pupils.
She taught contemporary black and Hispanic art, painting and other courses.
Before joining Rutgers, she taught in high schools and colleges in New York and New Jersey.

        Madeleine Marshall Simon, a singing coach and concert pianist who taught English diction at the Juilliard School of Music for over half a century, died on Sunday at St. Lukes-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.
Dr. Ramsey taught and lectured at Johns Hopkins and Georgetown and George Washington Universities and served on the Dean's Council of Yale Medical School.
During World War II, she worked as a welder at Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico and taught dance in Albuquerque, Santa Fe and Las Vegas, Nev.
        Ms.
Waters taught at the University of New Mexico from 1946 to 1973; among her students was Tim Wengerd, a principal in the Martha Graham Dance Company in the 1970's and 1980's.
She taught high school English in Ohio and was an assistant professor at Bryn Mawr College before she went to Rochester.
Miss Reiman taught children's and beginning point classes from 1945 to 1953 and from 1964 through this summer.
She graduated from Bryn Mawr College and taught history at Concord Academy in Massachusetts and the Lincoln School in Providence, R.I. She began her teaching career at the Baldwin School in 1937.
She graduated from New Rochelle College and earned master's degrees from Columbia and Harvard-Radcliffe, then taught high school English.
She graduated from New Rochelle College, earned master's degrees from Columbia and Harvard-Radcliffe, and then taught high school English.
She also taught at the Actors' Laboratory in Los Angeles.
In the last 15 years she taught nutrition to graduate students from North America, Europe, Asia and Africa.
In 1958 she joined the Slavic department at Yale University, and in 1963 she moved on to Princeton, where she taught until 1971.
From 1963 to 1984 she taught in Center School in New Canaan, where she was assistant principal and head of the mathematics program.
She also taught speech and writing at Brookdale Community College in Lincroft, N.J.
Professor Dembo, who had taught at Clark University in Worcester, did important early work in Gestalt psychology in the United States, particularly in rehabilitation psychology.
Before that, she had taught at Bayside High School in Queens.
Her principal teacher was the renowned Aleksandr Goldenweiser, at the Moscow Conservatory, where she subsequently taught.
Over the years, she also taught at Columbia and New York Universities.
She later taught at the Winsor School in Boston for 22 years, and in 1963 joined the faculty of Tufts University.
She also taught school in Washington.
Ms. Lindbergh also taught for several years at the Riverside School in Lyndonville, Vt.
        Ms. Lindbergh's mother, who is a poet and essayist, lives in Darien and Barnet, Vt.
Her father died in the influenza epidemic of 1918, and Mrs. Williams moved her daughter and son, David, to Los Angeles, where Myrna attended Venice High School and occasionally taught dancing.
Her father died in the influenza epidemic of 1918, and Mrs. Williams moved her daughter and son, David, to Los Angeles, where Myrna attended Venice High School and occasionally taught dancing.
She graduated from Hunter College and taught at Hunter College High School.
For almost 30 years Dr. Ingalls was associated with a variety of medical and scientific groups, including the Columbia School of Public Health, where she was an adjunct associate professor from 1958 to 1964, and the Albany Medical School, where she taught bacteriology from 1936 to 1943.
She worked as a translator and taught political economics at Charles University in Prague.
She later taught at the Parsons School in New York City, where she headed the life drawing department.
