Ms. Poor taught at the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture from 1947 to 1961 and was on the board of trustees from 1963 to '83.
degree from the University of Texas at Austin, she taught in its theater and American Studies programs.
She also played the recorder and the virginal, a tiny cousin of the harpsichord, and lectured on Renaissance music at her concerts and in her classes at the Juilliard School, where she taught from 1942 to 1985.
''
        Correction:  March 26, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary of the dramatic soprano Eileen Farrell yesterday misidentified the university where she taught voice in the 1970's.
She maintained her association with the Juilliard School for the rest of her life and taught at Sarah Lawrence College from 1947 to 1987.
She liked to keep things simple, as when she taught business management skills to women involved in cooking and selling food on the streets.
''I have taught them to cost the things they sell and determine their profits,'' she said.
''
        At Ms. Bergner's suggestion she then went to London where she studied with Elsie Fogerty, who taught her to speak ''stage English,'' as if to-the-manner -- and manor -- born.
Through him, she met the Maharaja and Maharini of Mysore, who maintained a yoga school in their palace where Sri Krishnamacharya taught.
Rather than the cursory lessons he had at first intended, Sri Krishnamacharya taught her for a year.
In Shanghai, she taught what was thought to be the first yoga class in modern China, Mr. Ruiz said.
She taught yoga for at Elizabeth Arden's spas in Maine and Arizona, but refused to join the staff.
She traveled and taught around the world.
Mrs. Hillman, who was a pianist and piano teacher early in her career, taught adults cooking in the school system of Great Neck, N.Y., for 29 years as well as in Vermont and elsewhere.
At 19, she earned a degree in chemistry from Louisiana State University, and she taught briefly at John McNeese Junior College in Lake Charles, La., before her marriage, which ended after 14 years.
In 1957, she did graduate work in psychology and sociology at Columbia, then taught at several private schools in Manhattan.
The holder of diplomas from four schools of Japanese flower arranging, she taught and lectured widely and explained her philosophy in ''A Japanese Flower Arranging Notebook,'' published in 1963.
She attended New Haven State Teachers College, taught for a time and went on to hold a number of posts in Hadassah and in other Zionist organizations.
She spent the years after 1948, as pieced together from family and friends, at the Sorbonne in Paris, where, she said, she received doctorates in law and philosophy, but apparently never practiced or taught in either discipline.
She taught in a rural school for two years, then, as a member of the first wave of impoverished emigrants from the island, she moved to New York City.
Dr. Pantoja directed most of her energies, however, to improving the performance in New York schools of Puerto Rican children, children of Spanish speakers who were taught only in English.
The group taught the ''Aspira process'' of awareness, analysis and action.
Ms. Brown taught dance at institutions like Colorado University at Boulder and the University of California at Santa Cruz.
For several years she taught theater at Bennington College and was head of the theater program at Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., before beginning her professional career at the Berkshire Theater Festival, where she specialized in revivals of American plays.
Barbara Anne Betts was born on Oct. 10, 1910, in Chesterfield, Derbyshire, the daughter of a socialist tax inspector who taught himself ancient Greek and a strongly socialist mother, both of Quaker background.
After retiring from Pratt in 1977, Ms. Tish occasionally taught dance history part time there and at Brooklyn and Hunter Colleges, and she was active in dance organizations including the American Dance Guild, which she had served as president, and the Dance Films Association.
She taught second grade for several years while taking graduate education courses at Teachers College.
It helped, she said, that she had been taught in Old German in elementary school in Bulgaria.
She retired from the National Gallery in 1963 and taught art history at Smith College from 1969 to 1975.
      
She taught at the Library School from 1972 to 1986 and served on all the important library and children's book committees, including those for the Newbery and Caldecott Awards.
Representatives of the Helena Rubinstein Company ran a charm school that taught how to put on makeup and how to charm a date.
She directed her own ballet school in Los Angeles from 1990 to 2000 and also taught at the schools of Natalia Clare and Anna Cheselka.
She went on to study modern dance with Hanya Holm in New York, then returned west when Holm taught workshops in Colorado.
She taught dance at several schools, including the New York Academy of Ballet, which she founded in 1960 and which closed in 1991.
Ms. Hilton taught at schools abroad and in the United States, among them Stanford University.
Moving to New York in 1954, she taught public school before joining the CUNY faculty of Brooklyn College in 1960.
In Vienna her teachers included Léopold Dubois who, she later recalled, taught her the meaning of classicism, and Gertrud Kraus, a pioneer of Central European modern dance.
She opened a New York studio in 1960 and, after moving to Los Angeles in 1969, taught ballet at the University of California at Los Angeles and the California Institute of the Arts.
She also taught and lectured at colleges including Wellesley, Barnard, Hunter and New York University.
She returned to the United States, where she taught English, worked in an automobile assembly plant and wrote for the Communist Party organ, Daily Worker.
She taught math in several private schools in New York City during the 1970's and eventually became the chairwoman of the math departments at the Town School and the Columbia Grammar and Preparatory School.
She taught at Harvard University and at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., before joining the Center for Populations Studies at the University of Delaware as a research associate in 1976.
When she was honored by the American Farmland Trust, Ms. Straus said World War II had taught her a lifelong lesson about standing for one's beliefs: ''That we, as individuals, are responsible for what is happening in our communities, and that we must become activists.
Before entering government she taught at the University of Cincinnati and was a staff member of the developmental diagnostic center at the Children's Hospital Medical Center in that city.
During lulls in the action, she taught other foreign correspondents to knit.
She taught physical education in Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan, and studied dance in New York with an Italian ballet master whose students included Fred Astaire.
Trained in the Netherlands, Ms. van Hoek taught choreography and dance improvisation at the Rotterdamse Dansacademie and presented her own dances in Europe before emigrating to the United States in 1977.
Ms. Grealy taught at Bennington College and New School University and published poetry in various magazines.
