She taught the Alexander Technique in the new drama division, a required course for all Juilliard students.
Before her dog-breeding career, Miss Ayers taught at the Ferry Hall School in Lake Forest, Ill., worked as a guidance counselor at Danbury (Conn.) High School and served as dean of girls at Montclair (N.J.) High School.
In 1951, she became executive secretary of the Middlebury College Russian School, and from 1956 until her retirement she taught Russian there.
Dr. Baumgartner was born in Chicago and raised in Lawrence, Kan., where her father taught zoology at the University of Kansas.
"  Taught in New Jersey
        In the United States, Mrs. Provaznik, who became an American citizen in 1954, taught physical education at Panzer College in New Jersey, and was active in Sokols established in New York and elsewhere.
"  Taught in New Jersey
        In the United States, Mrs. Provaznik, who became an American citizen in 1954, taught physical education at Panzer College in New Jersey, and was active in Sokols established in New York and elsewhere.

        Dr. Harriet M. Griffin, who taught mathematics at the City College of New York for 36 years before retiring in 1966, died on Jan. 13 at Kimball Medical Center in Lakewood, N.J. She was 87 years old and had lived in Lakewood since her retirement.
She taught at Hunter College for four years before joining the City College faculty, where she rose to a full professorship.
She taught at Manhattanville from 1940 to 1970.
She also taught at the Alliance Francaise in Manhattan, Georgetown University, City College of New York and at the Convent of the Sacred Heart in Greenwich, Conn. Ms. Gehin also wrote for a newspaper syndicate in Paris.
She came to Pavlova's attention when, at age 8, she answered an advertisement for a class for eight girls to be taught by the Russian ballerina in London.
She previously taught or ran nursing programs at California State University in Sacramento, the Medical College of Georgia in Augusta and at Nova University in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
      
Mrs. Bacmeister taught at the Manhasset Bay School in Port Washington, L.I., in the 1930's.
Between marriages, while she was at the Parsons School, she became close to two people who taught there: the antiques expert William Odom, who first taught her to appreciate fine French furniture and was known as her silent partner, and the designer Grace Fakes whose flair for architectural detail was to account for much of Mrs. Brown's reputation.
Between marriages, while she was at the Parsons School, she became close to two people who taught there: the antiques expert William Odom, who first taught her to appreciate fine French furniture and was known as her silent partner, and the designer Grace Fakes whose flair for architectural detail was to account for much of Mrs. Brown's reputation.
Mrs. Wickens retired from the Department of Labor in 1970 after a 42-year career in Fderal service that began when she joined the Federal Reserve Board as a research assistant in 1928 after having taught at Mount Holyoke College for four years.
She also taught at Northwestern University (1964-1974), where she held the title of Melville J. Herskovits Professor of African Affairs; Indiana University (1974-1984) and the University of Florida (1984-1987).
Before joining the School for Strings, she was the director of instrumental music at the Chapin School and also taught at the Brearley School.
Since 1965 Dr. Landes had taught at McMaster University in Hamilton.
When she taught a writing class at the Westport Division of Continuing Education in the 1970's, she adopted the Wilder method of reading his students' stories out loud, anonymously, and having the other students critique them.
She taught at the University of Arkansas from 1951 to 1971, and then retired, making her home in Santa Fe, N.M.
She also taught fashion illustration at the Art Students League for 20 years, from the late 1940's.
Dr. Kattan, a 1963 Ph.D. graduate of the University of Madrid, taught at the University of Pennsylvania and at Wells College before joining Brooklyn College in 1966.
Before that, she was executive director of the Cold Spring Harbor Symposium on Quantitative Biology on Long Island and taught biology at Adelphi University, Hofstra University, Cornell University Medical College and Wellesley College.
In 1938 Dr. DuBois, who had taught anthropology at Hunter College, went to live in Alor, a small island in the Dutch East Indies.
It was there, after studying with Moshe Feldenkreis, that she became interested in Eastern movement disciplines, such as Hatha Yoga, which she also taught.
Mrs. Kinoy, a graduate of Teachers College, was a social worker with the American Red Cross during World War I and later taught at the Brooklyn Ethical Culture School and at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
Mrs. Hofheimer, a 1909 graduate of Barnard College, taught for five years in the New York public schools before devoting herslf to volunteer work.
Gregory Peck and Bette Davis were among the many drama students she taught over the years at the Neighborhood Playhouse.
At the invitation of Rouben Mamoulian, she joined the dance division of the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, where she taught dance.
"
        Miss Graham taught in the early years in her studio at 66 Fifth Avenue, near 13th Street, and at the Neighborhood Playhouse.
She then taught sociology at Hunter College, New York University and the Fashion Institute of Technology.
The other institutions where she taught in New York over the years included the Horace Mann and Fieldston Schools.
The other institutions where she taught in New York over the years included the Horace Mann and Fieldston Schools.
Mrs. Cavert received a bachelor's degree in 1915 at Ohio Weselyan University and a master's at Columbia University, She taught social studies at Ohio Wesleyan, at Women's Union College in Tokyo, Lawrence University in Appleton, Wis., and Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville.
She also taught for several years at the Institute for Regional Studies of New York University and at Rutgers University before joining the Harvard faculty.
Mrs. Grierson, who was born in Aberdeen, Scotland, came to the United States in the early 1930's and taught English at colleges and private schools in the metropolitan area.
She traveled extensively in Western Europe and India, lived and studied in Mexico and Nicaragua, and taught English and German at Kangreung National University in Korea in 1985.
She taught at Yale and at Drew University before joining SUNY in 1973.
She taught psychology, pediatrics and psychoanalytic psychology at Johns Hopkins University.
Page, a 1932 graduate of Montclair State College, taught English at Park Ridge High School and Fairleigh Dickinson University before joining the staff of the School Boards Association in 1957.
She joined the faculty in 1967, after having taught at Harvard University since 1959.
" Years later, she taught acting at Vassar College.
She taught English, speech and drama at various public schools, among them the Julia Richman High School in Manhattan, Walton High School in the Bronx, and Girls' Commercial High School in Brooklyn.
Ms. Vogan, who was a member of the Bay Area Writers Workshop, taught creative writing at the University of Oregon.
"
        She taught in the late 1960's at the Yale Drama School.
Over the years she also taught at Barnard College and at the Brearley School in Manhattan.
"
        She taught in the late 1960's at the Yale Drama School.
Over the years she also taught at Barnard College and at the Brearley School in Manhattan.
She taught for a decade in elementary schools in Clinton, Conn., Cambridge and White Plains.
The family moved to the West Coast, and she attended the University of California at Los Angeles and taught school in Brawley, Calif., while playing small parts at local theaters.
She taught and was a principal at Public School 100 in Upper Manhattan before her retirement in 1973.
Was Her Mother's Assistant
        After an automobile accident in 1936 that reduced her performing abilities, she served as her mother's rehearsal assistant, and from 1941 to 1950 taught in the school her mother had founded in Hollywood.
Dr. Dell taught at Pace's Westchester-Pleasantville campus for 27 years before retiring in 1990.
She taught in speech departments at Roosevelt College in Chicago and Howard University in Washington, as well as Brooklyn College.
Taught at Brooklyn Law
        In 1973, she was the founding partner of one of the first all-women law firms, Lefcourt, Kraft and Arber.
She taught high school English in Las Vegas before returning to the University of Nevada as an instructor in 1936.
A Public Health Consultant
        During her career Dr. Seibert taught and did research at the University of Chicago and the Sprague Institute in Chicago, and at the Henry Phipps Institute of the University of Pennsylvania.
Mrs. Gladieux taught at the American School in Tokyo from 1930 to 1934.
Still Playing Near the End
        Mrs. Greenburg was the director and driving force at the school for nearly 30 years before retiring in 1973, turning over its direction to Mary Helton, who had taught there since 1951.
After retiring from the school, she taught adult arts and crafts at the Y into the 1970's.
As a teen-ager, she taught typing and shorthand at her father's business school and worked for Armstrong Cork as a secretary to the advertising manager.
In the late 1930's she taught art and painted murals for the Works Progress Administration.
Mrs. Feldman taught schools in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn and in Massapequa Park, L.I.
