She taught at schools in Oakland, Calif., from 1938 to 1942 and was an associate professor of zoology at the University of Washington from 1945 to 1976.
She attended Vassar College and decided to focus on art history after taking a course taught by Alfred H. Barr Jr., soon to become the founding director of the Museum of Modern Art.
She taught dance at Catholic University in Washington, and created dances for the Martha's Vineyard Shaw Festival and the Empire State Music Festival.
In the 1940's and early 50's, Mrs. Svendsen taught art history at Duke University, Goucher College and American University.
After rejoining her family in Warrenton, Mrs. Wallach taught French and Latin at the Highland School for 18 years.
Ms. Mortimer also lectured in the art department and taught a course on the history of books until a few weeks ago.
At that time she also taught at the Yale Drama School.
In 1975 she moved to the United States and joined the faculty of the Curtis Institute, where she taught until 1989.
For a time Mrs. Hemingway and her co-author taught cooking together in Stamford, Conn.
        One of their books, "Food Processor Magic: Six Hundred Recipes, Basic Techniques, Twists and Turns," was highly rated by critics when it appeared in 1976.
For the last several years she also taught English as a second language at City College and Touro College.
She taught in Indiana, New York and Michigan before returning to Madison to teach at the University of Wisconsin and Edgewood College.
Together, they performed and taught extensively and, since 1967, directed the New York-based Foundation for Ethnic Dance.
Doctorate From HarvardMet as Legal Adversaries
        She taught in many seminars and courses sponsored by the American Bar Association, the American Law Institute, the Brookings Institution, the American Association of Museums and the American Council on Education.
She taught during the summer at the Rutgers Center for Alcoholic Studies.
Mrs. Bergtraum, a graduate of Hunter College, taught at the elementary school from 1960 to 1985.
She taught at Indian schools in South Dakota and Montana until 1970, when she was recruited as an administrator of educational programs for what was then the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare.
She also taught at New York University and the High School for the Performing Arts.
After receiving a bachelor's degree from Mount Holyoke in South Hadley, Mass., she taught school in India, then returned to the United States and received a master's degree at Columbia University Teachers College.
She taught high school there until the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937 drove the family from China.
Demanding Teacher
        Miss Stroganova, an effervescent, birdlike woman, taught at several New York schools; in recent years, she had her own studio in the City Center building.
Ms. Helman, who was born and reared in New York City, had taught at Pratt's School of Art and Design since 1972.
Professor Hodgkin was the chancellor of Bristol University from 1970 until her retirement in 1988, and also taught at Oxford.
A member of the City Municipal Art Society and several theater restoration groups, she also taught at City College and lectured around Manhattan.
Over the years, she taught at City College, New York University, the Hunter College School of Social Work and elsewhere.
She taught at Stony Brook from 1968 until her retirement in 1987, after which she moved to Cambridge.
Taught Sociology at Harvard
        Dr. Coser began her teaching career as an instructor at Wellesley College.
She also taught at Northeastern University in Boston.
She gave piano lessons, and discovered her son's ability when at the age of 3 he went to the piano after one of her students left and played by ear the piece that had just been taught.
Over the years she taught at the University of Rochester, Syracuse University, and Bar-Ilan University in Israel.
In "Brando: Songs My Mother Taught Me," the actor wrote: "I think Jessica and I were both miscast, and between us we threw the play out of balance.
"
        Her mother taught her to read and write while the family, which also included her sister and brother, crisscrossed the country.

        Kaleria Fedicheva, a former ballerina with the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad who taught and staged the classics in the United States, died on Sept. 13 in Maribor, Slovenia, where she had been seeking medical treatment.
From 1930 to 1943 she taught at Spelman College in Atlanta as a professor of English and speech.
Ms. Freidus, who taught children with learning disabilities for more than 40 years, became interested in ways to overcome learning problems while teaching in private nursery schools and kindergartens in New York City in the 1940's and through her work with physically disabled children.
Ms. Freidus was a member of the adjunct faculty at Teachers College at Columbia University from the mid-1950's to 1970, teaching a popular special-education class, and she also taught at New York University.
"
        During the 60's and 70's she directed the Memphis Ballet and "The Littlest Circus," a touring pantomime show for children, and taught in the Netherlands and at the North Carolina School of the Arts.
She taught me a great deal about writing and was a wonderful woman.
In the 1960's she was the curator of the Lyman Allyn Museum in New London, Conn., and taught art history there and at Connecticut College.
She taught second grade and coached high school basketball and track in Tennessee, all for $400 a month.
She did post-graduate work at Catholic University of America, taught in the Chicago public schools and helped to organize theaters in Terre Haute.
She taught in junior and senior high schools, was an editor and a freelance writer and was director of the women's center and adult education at the Brooklyn Y.W.C.A.
She also taught a course on the history of child rearing at Harvard University and lectured at Boston University.
She was professor emeritus of history and international relations at Sarah Lawrence, where she taught from 1947 to 1977.
She taught at the University of Minnesota before joining the University of Pennsylvania, where she received a doctorate in sociology in 1956.
"She taught me to love when all I wanted to do was hate," Mrs. Glaser said.
"She taught me to help others when all I wanted to do was help myself.
"She taught me to love when all I wanted to do was hate," Mrs. Glaser said.
"She taught me to help others when all I wanted to do was help myself.
At her death, Dr. Oppenheim was a professor of history at American University in Washington, where she had taught since 1975.
"
        Courses that Professor Oppenheim taught at American University included "Men and Women in Victorian Culture: Gender Roles and Stereotypes" and "Selected Topics on the Condition of Women in Victorian England.
