'' When Barnard officials referred to her in news releases as ''Dr.,'' she chided them, saying, ''There is only one doctor in our family,'' referring to her husband, Dr. Rustin McIntosh, a pediatrician who taught at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons.
She had five brothers and sisters, and all were taught to mend and darn and market and cook.
She introduced aptitude tests and remedial instruction and instituted a sex education course for sixth graders, which she taught.
As Mr. Jamieson went on to play a prominent role in Mr. Rockefeller's campaign for governor in 1958, she taught reading and acting to poor children as a volunteer.
She taught at Vassar College, the University of Notre Dame and the University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
      
She taught at Somerville College, Oxford, from 1946 to 1970.
''
        Ms. Arova and Mr. Sutowski returned to San Diego in 1997, where they taught for both the San Diego Ballet and the California Ballet.
''He taught his students to save only their perfect prints, to mat them beautifully and to frame them beautifully.
She later taught and researched at centers in Hawaii, Austria and Norway.
Stylistically versatile, she contributed to early television dance, taught dance around the world and choreographed stage shows at the Roxy Theater in New York and several ice revues.
''
        Miss Koner toured Egypt and Palestine in 1932 and taught and performed in the Soviet Union from 1934 to 1936.
She became famous for Elements of Performing, a course she taught at the North Carolina School of the Arts, the American Dance Festival and other schools in the United States, Europe and Asia.
For them, she staged dances in plays, taught classes and presented dance programs.
She also supervised the breast cancer clinic at Downstate's University Hospital of Brooklyn and taught at the New York Medical College in Valhalla from 1982 to 1987.

        Irina Bugrimova, a Russian animal tamer who taught lions to walk a tightrope in circuses, died on Feb. 20 in Moscow.
She taught at Columbia College in Chicago for more than 20 years.
Then she taught for several years at Queens College.
She also taught at Columbia and other universities.
Hunter, was a professor and her mother, Minna, taught in the local school system.
Ms. Sciutti taught at the Royal College of Music in London and gave master classes at the Lyric Center of Chicago, at the Juilliard School and as part of the Merola Opera Program at the San Francisco Opera.

        Barbara Krakauer, a violinist who played chamber music and taught in New York and for nearly 25 years in summer programs in Provence, France, died on Monday.
She also taught in the preparatory and extension divisions of Mannes.
She then taught English at the University of California at Berkeley and became the second woman to receive tenure in Berkeley's English department.
A philologist who spoke eight languages, Dr. Metlitzki taught at Yale until she turned 70 in 1984.
Dr. Jahoda, who taught at New York University in the 1950's, was 94.
She visited many prisons, including Sing Sing, where for years she taught reading to inmates.
Mrs. Moses, a Fulbright scholar, was an adjunct professor of journalism at the New York University Graduate School of Journalism last year and had taught in 13 African countries since 1991 as part of the United States Information Agency's Visiting Scholars Program, her husband said.
The Berkshire Conference of Women Historians began seven decades ago when women who taught history at Northeastern women's colleges were excluded from an all-male conference and started their own.
A native New Yorker, she graduated from Barnard, received a master's degree in mathematics from Teachers College at Columbia and taught mathematics at three other schools in addition to Spence before becoming its headmistress.

        Aveline Kushi, who taught and promoted macrobiotic cooking and helped found one of the nation's first natural food stores, died of cancer on July 3 in Brookline, Mass.
Ms. Kushi and her husband, Michio, also taught that entire societies could become disharmonious and aggressive from eating meat and processed foods, undermining world peace.
She taught in elementary school during World War II, but resigned to work for peace as a member of the World Government Association, run by George Ohsawa, who is considered the father of the macrobiotic movement.
Ms. Kushi taught cooking and wrote cookbooks, helping to popularize Japanese ingredients like miso, soy sauce and tofu among Americans.
Unlike many of the children's show hosts of the period, Ms. Horwich ''actually taught kids things,'' Mr. Kisseloff said.
She taught first grade, supervised nursery schools in Chicago, was a principal, and held professorships in education at the University of North Carolina and Roosevelt College in Chicago.
Over the years she taught English, creative writing and women's studies at Goddard, the State University of New York and New York University.
Educated in Europe and the United States, she enrolled in art school in Paris in 1938, met Tristan Tzara, had her portrait drawn by Giacometti and taught Picasso how to play Chinese checkers at the Cafe Flore.
Serving as its director until 1983, Ms. Roy taught midwifery and instructed medical students from Yale University.
Many remain in print, including one that has taught young readers about black history in New England for half a century.
She taught at several French conservatories and wrote a three-volume book that became the standard text for the instrument: ''Technique de l'Onde Electronique Type Martenot'' (Leduc, 1987).
She taught art education at New York University and worked in various media throughout her life.
She says they taught her much about their short careers, facing retirement on average around 30, or when they are injured.
She taught as an assistant to Graham at the Neighborhood Playhouse and at the Graham school from 1938 to 1958.
She earned a graduate degree from the University of Paris and taught in Algeria.
She earned a graduate degree from the University of Paris and taught in Algeria.
The critic Louis Menand wrote in The New York Review of Books in March 1995: ''Kael was the most brilliantly ad hoc critic of her time, and she made it possible to care about movies without feeling pompous or giddy by showing that what comes first in everyone's experience of a movie isn't the form or the idea but the sensation, and that this is just as true for moviegoers who have been taught to intellectualize their responses to art as it is for everyone else.
She principally taught at Teachers College of Columbia University and at the Graduate School of Education at the University of California, from which she retired in 1980.
She taught English at Hofstra University and the City University of New York.
She then taught physical education and coached drill teams at Santa Monica College, whose president, Richard Moore, said, ''With her batons, hats and costumes, she established college pride, no matter what the prowess of the athletic crew.
She wrote and taught about cooking as well as serving as chef at the restaurant for a decade.
There ''classic Chinese with refined taste taught me how to eat and how to live,'' she told Craig Claiborne of The New York Times in a 1981 interview.
At U.C.L.A., Dr. Myers taught courses on writing as well as on the history of children's literature.
Ms. Locke taught for more than 40 years, from elementary to university level, and lectured on Indian issues throughout the United States.
Born in Manhattan, Ms. Limmer received a bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College and a master's degree in English and writing from Mills College in Oakland, Calif.
        She became a professor of English and writing at Western College for Women in Oxford, Ohio, where she taught for 20 years.
Moving to Frederick in 1947, she taught sociology at Hood College.
She taught at Brown, Duke and Harvard.
Beginning in 1953, Mrs. Matter taught at the Philadelphia College of Art (now University of the Arts), Pratt Institute and New York University.
She taught at the school until last year.
Another keeper, Bob Trussler, taught her the craft by having her disassemble a finished fly and then reconstruct it on a smaller hook.
''There is just one man I taught that could tie a decent fly,'' she said.
