First, though, she taught in a nursery school and earned a master's degree in elementary education at Columbia University.
She taught in Operation Bootstrap, a Los Angeles program that provided teachers to poor neighborhoods, and at Julia Richman High School in Manhattan as part of President Jimmy Carter's Cities in Schools program.
First, though, she taught in a nursery school and earned a master's degree in elementary education at Columbia University.
She followed him when he taught at Black Mountain College in Ashville, N.C.; Brandeis University in Boston; and Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine.
She taught music theory and composition in the United States before switching her profession to microbiology and biochemistry, receiving a master's degree in science from Wayne State University.
Dr. Meadow taught, wrote, edited, practiced therapy, and founded and led organizations, including the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies in Manhattan, along with its branch, the Cyril Z. Meadow Institute of Psychoanalysis, in Dummerston.
Kilmer taught her editing and helped her come to New York, and after several miserably paid editing jobs she applied to The New Yorker.
A versatile scientist with degrees in biology, chemistry and physics, Ms. Lathrop was named a professor of radiology at Chicago, where she taught for four decades, without having received a doctorate.
Dr. Georgeanna Jones, one of the country's first reproductive endocrinologists, was a quiet leader in her field for four decades at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, where she taught and conducted research.
'' ''They trained many of today's leading experts, and those they didn't train were taught by their students.
In addition, she taught world dance in the theater program at the Eugene Lang College of the New School University and in the theater arts department at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
She taught art in the city's public school system until World War II, which she spent touring the United States for the U.S.O., sketching servicemen.
Later in her career, she taught again and lectured at various colleges and organizations.
She taught ballet from 1962 at GITIS, the State Theatrical Institute of the Arts, and from 1978 was a ballet mistress and coach at the Bolshoi.
Until her retirement, she taught for many years at the New Jersey Institute of Technology in Newark.
''She probably taught a class.
She also taught at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, where she lived on and off throughout her life.
Her first full-time appointment was to Public School 34 on the Lower East Side, where she taught fourth grade for three years.
Mr. Garrett, a noted labor arbitrator who taught at Stanford and elsewhere, died in 1996.
Bond, whose husband joined the Foreign Service in 1944, taught at universities in Haiti, Liberia and Malawi and worked with women's and youth groups in Afghanistan, Tunisia and Sierra Leone.
She received a master's degree from the Harvard University Graduate School of Education in 1987 and taught high school science and health classes in the Bronx for five years.
'' She taught drama at HB Studios in New York for more than 30 years.
Her death was announced by Debra Kinzler, the spokeswoman for the Manhattan School of Music, where Ms. Keene has taught since 1969.
Mr. Littauer founded a riding academy called the Boots and Saddles Club, and also taught private clients at the family's Long Island home before his death in 1989, at 96.
Already fluent in French, Mrs. Littauer taught herself ancient Greek, German and Russian.
Ms. Cohen was a member of the first National Endowment for the Arts Dance Panel in 1966; organized a critics' conference at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn., in 1970; and taught over the years at many colleges, including the University of Chicago, where she returned to head summer seminars from 1974 to 1976.
