After World War II she escaped to Taiwan, where she taught and wrote.
The cause was cancer, said officials at the University of California at Los Angeles, where Dr. Fromkin, an emeritus professor of linguistics, had taught since 1965.
But Mrs. Devenney's upbringing among people of different races and creeds had taught her that the struggle against community destruction knew no color.
We were taught a sense of responsibility.
Ms. Clark attended the Barnard School for Girls, but she later regretted that the school taught her little science.
It featured a sleuth, Hilary Tamar, who taught law at Oxford, as did Ms. Caudwell.
''
        After graduating from Tennessee State, Faggs received a master's degree from the University of Cincinnati and then taught physical education at high schools in the Cincinnati area.
She taught herself to swim when she was 14, growing up in the Pittsburgh area.
After retiring from competitive swimming, she managed pools, taught swimming and, until about five years ago, swam about three miles a week at a local Y.M.C.A.
When she came to New York she intended to study at the Art Students League, but ended up attending classes taught by Hans Hofmann, whose emphasis on structure and strong color she found compatible.
''
        Ms. Fine taught composition at the Juilliard School, New York University, the State University of New York at Potsdam and Bennington College in Vermont.
In 1948 she joined the faculty at Rockford College in Illinois, where she taught Chinese history, English literature and creative writing before retiring  in 1960.
'' For many years, she taught courses in movement to actors at the HB Studio, directed by Herbert Berghof and the actress Uta Hagen.
In New York she taught at both dance and theater schools, among them the Juilliard School, the HB Studio, the American Theater Wing and the Actors Studio.
She taught in several colleges before moving to Seattle, where she also staged dances for the Seattle Opera.
The cause was a heart attack, said Tristram Perry, a spokesman for the Boston Conservatory, where Dr. Brainard taught.
She had taught dance history at the Boston Conservatory since 1983.
Over the years, she taught creative writing at both universities.
From 1972 to 1989 she taught at Chelsea and University colleges.
Mrs. Hayes joined the piano faculty at American University in 1951 and taught there until retiring in 1976.
Verna Aardema, the name on her books (of Dutch origin and pronounced AR-duh-ma), taught elementary school in Michigan from 1934 to 1973.
She also contributed articles to The Muskegon Chronicle in Michigan and taught Sunday school as she developed into a full-time author and folklorist, retelling the lore of Mexico and, particularly, Africa for children ages 4 to 8.
She worked in libraries in Detroit, Hawaii and Louisiana and taught library science at the University of Florida before becoming Alabama's library director in 1959.
She then taught at Vassar and worked as a biologist at the Clapp Laboratory in Duxbury, Mass.

        Diane Divers Blair, who taught and practiced politics in Arkansas for 30 years, becoming fast friends with Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton, died on Monday at her home in Fayetteville, Ark.
During her graduate studies, she also taught at the City College of the City University of New York.
A year later, she was instrumental in the establishment of the department of African-American studies, where she taught until her death.
She also taught at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, the University of Hawaii and New York University.
A native New Yorker, Mrs. Fitzgerald was a 1954 music graduate of Hunter College and taught orchestral and choral music in the public schools until 1967.
''Armed only with her faith, she taught gangs in New York City to solve their differences without violence,'' President Clinton said in a statement last week.
She graduated from Tougaloo Southern Christian College, now Tougaloo College, and taught in the public schools.
''
        Ms. Gordon was born in Logansport, Ind., attended the University of Chicago and briefly taught high school in Wisconsin.
She then taught classes as an adjunct professor at Boston University until 1993.
She then taught classes as an adjunct professor at Boston University until 1993.
She taught German history at Stanford University and elsewhere before becoming director of archives at the Leo Baeck Institute in New York from 1974 to 1984.
She lived in New York from 1994 to 1996 and for the last five years  taught music and movement at conservatories in Antwerp, Belgium,  and in The Hague.
Returning to Paris, she became a leader of the Russian Christian Student Movement, taught emigre children and edited two volumes of church school lessons.
Beginning in 1954, she taught for nearly 20 years at St. Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary in Crestwood, N.Y.,
        After her official retirement in 1974, she continued working.
When she wasn't wearing those knee-high corrective boots, she was being taught basic ballet, ballroom dancing and learning how to tap and do the old soft-shoe.
She was born in New Orleans and taught at Columbia and New York Universities and then for a decade at the Rutgers Graduate School of Social Work.
She worked as a psychiatric social worker with delinquent girls in upstate New York, where, among other things, she taught her clients to play pool.
She taught at the Ethical Culture Society School.
Mrs. Gresser, who was born in 1906 in Detroit, taught herself to play chess using a book a fellow passenger gave her on a cruise in 1939.
During two years of postwar convalescence in a Swedish hospital, she learned to walk again and taught herself English by correspondence with Oxford University.
While pursuing her writing, Ms. Karmel taught in day care schools in a career that spanned a 10-year stay in Germany, where she worked in an orphanage.
''We were taught very early in the game that we didn't have to respect the teachers, and if they threatened to hit us, we could act as if they weren't anybody we had to pay any attention to,'' she wrote.
''Handling the Holiday and Parker estates taught me more than I was really ready for about government and business delinquency and the hostility and helplessness of the courts,'' she wrote.
