She joined the Wisconsin faculty the next year; at her death, she held a joint appointment in the English and Afro-American studies departments, and also taught in the women's studies department.
Ms. Martinez taught in several New York City public schools, including George Washington High School in Upper Manhattan and the Bronx Leadership Academy, where she was most recently a guidance counselor.
A recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship, she later served on the Guggenheim Foundation board, and she also taught playwriting at several universities.
in 2003, previously taught in the American studies department at the State University of New York, Buffalo.
Professor Holland taught at Buffalo from 1985 to 1993.
Alligator Jim soon taught Miss Neumann how to fly a plane, to parachute and land on a tiny target, and to wrestle alligators (as proved by a picture in The Albany Times Union on June 13, 1932).

        Herta Glaz, a mezzo-soprano who performed regularly at the Metropolitan Opera during the 1940's and 50's and later taught at the Manhattan School of Music, died on Jan. 28 in Hamden, Conn. She was 95.
Dr. Mellink's death was announced by Bryn Mawr College, where she taught in the department of classical and Near Eastern archaeology for five decades.
In recent years, Ms. Braden had taught civil rights history at the University of Louisville and at Northern Kentucky University.
She had taught at the school, which was also called the Joan of Arc School, since the late 1940's.
Edythe Pauline Jones was born on Sept. 6, 1922, in Asheville, N.C., one of seven children of Jacob Jones, an Episcopal minister, and the former Jennie Dillard, who taught high school English and Latin.
She taught law at Florida State University, clerked for a federal judge in California and was an associate at the firm of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton.
''
        Her doubts increased after William Kirk, the director of the Union Settlement in East Harlem, taught her new ways of seeing neighborhoods.
For more than 50 years, Mrs. Jordan taught sight singing, score reading and other fundamentals.
''She taught the top,'' said Ms. Kaplan, a producer at Showtime.
Her father, Charles Hobbs, was later elected Kansas insurance commissioner, and her mother, Emma Swisher, taught piano.
She taught at colleges including the Curtis Institute of Music, Swarthmore College and Temple University.
(In fact, the characteristic script -- squarish and slanting slightly backward -- was taught in library schools.
''She taught me Yiddish.
Ms. Schwartz had taught at the School of Visual Arts since 1978.
Some of her concepts continue to be taught at modern-dance schools across America.
She taught at the Home School in New York City, and was a former president of the Junior League.
In the 1940's and 50's, Ms. McLaughlin taught at Wellesley, Vassar and Nebraska; she rejoined the Vassar faculty in 1959.
She taught at the Home School in New York City and was a former president of the Junior League.
She taught at the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., before going to law school at the University of Virginia.
In 1988, with Michael Scherker, she founded Preserve Inc., an organization that taught performing arts organizations and interested people how to create and maintain archives, and conducted workshops nationwide.
Her parents, Dorothy and Reginald Johnson, were keen players and had taught her the game when she was 7.
After graduating from Michigan State at 16, she settled with her mother in Los Angeles so that she could attend the University of California at Los Angeles and study with Schoenberg, who taught there.
She also taught drama and folklore at the University of the West Indies, and was on the staff of the Jamaica Broadcasting Corporation briefly in 1959, but resigned to pursue a freelance career.
After four years in a back brace, she taught herself to dance by watching Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers movies.
''
        Mrs. Foster taught at the Columbia School of Social Work and was director of mental health for the Children's Aid Society.
After training as a psychoanalyst, she taught at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Harvard and Boston University.
Since 1983, she had taught at the North Carolina School of the Arts in Winston-Salem.
John Mauceri, the school's chancellor, said yesterday that Ms. Hayden had taught until a month ago.
After earning her doctorate, Ms. Ilchman directed the Peace Corps training program for India and taught at the University of California, Berkeley.
She later taught economics at Wellesley, where she was Dean of the College
        During Ms. Ilchman's tenure at Sarah Lawrence, the college's endowment grew from $3 million to $30 million.
After graduating, she and Mr. Richards moved to Austin, where she earned a teaching certificate at the University of Texas in 1955 and taught social studies for several years at Fulmore Middle School.
After her husband's death, Mrs. Deschamps Adams worked on a Lockheed assembly line and then taught French in many places, including Iran, Hawaii, Germany and Bermuda.
Ms. Levien (pronounced Le-VINE) was taught by Anna Duncan, one of Isadora Duncan's six adopted daughters, making Ms. Levien a third-generation Duncan dancer.
She taught and lectured internationally and wrote many articles about Duncan, continuing to work until last year.
''
        Ms. Levien married and settled in Queens, where she raised a family and taught Duncan dance to children.
Professor Ramey was most recently emeritus professor of physiology and biophysics at the Georgetown University School of Medicine, where she had taught for many years.
Before joining the Georgetown faculty in 1956, Professor Ramey taught at Queens College, the University of Tennessee and the University of Chicago.
After college, the couple moved to Austin where she earned a teaching certificate at the University of Texas in 1955 and taught social studies for several years at Fulmore Middle School.
She also taught at the City and Country School in Manhattan.
After earning a bachelor's degree in elementary education from the University of Pittsburgh in 1971, Ms. Campbell taught school in Atlanta for several years before embarking on a career as a freelance journalist.
''My education was dominated by modernist thinkers and artists who taught me that the supreme imperative was courage to face the awful truth, to scorn the soft-minded optimism of religious and secular romantics as well as the corrupt optimism of governments, advertisers, and mechanistic or manipulative revolutionaries,'' Ms. Willis wrote in an essay collected in ''Beginning to See the Light: Pieces of a Decade'' (Knopf, 1981).
An advocate of ''bottom-up'' aid to farmers and villagers in the third world, Mrs. Morgenthau was the Adlai Stevenson Professor Emeritus of International Politics at Brandeis, where she taught from 1963 to 2003.
She was a director of the hospital's sickle cell center and also taught at Columbia.
