Mrs. Poston, who was born in Minneapolis, graduated from St. Mary's College in Leavenworth, Kan., and taught school for six years before moving to Washington, where she became involved in charitable fund raising and Democratic Party activities.
She was the founder and director of Intimate Concerts Association of Westchester and taught violin at the New York College of Music, the Manhattan School of Music and Goddard College in Plainfield, Vt., and in public schools in New Rochelle and Pelham, N.Y.
        She is survived by a daughter, Gale Bruzzese of New Rochelle, 10 grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren.
      
Later she taught math at the Brearley School and for many years was a director and officer of the Calhoun School.
"
        British-born and educated, she came to the United States when she was 24, taught English at a private school and later became editor of Headline Books for the Foreign Policy Association.
Taught Librarians
        She was also an educator of librarians at several universities.
Her longest tenure was at Rutgers University, where she taught from 1954 to 1971.
She also taught at the University of Virginia and Emory University.
After receiving a Ph.D. in mathematics from Yale, she taught math at Vassar College, her alma mater, where she later became an associate professor.
She taught at Columbia for 25 years until her retirement two years ago.
Taught Notable Figures
        She danced with the Denishawn company from 1925 to 1927, leaving to join the earliest Humphrey-Weidman company, with which she danced from 1927 to 1929.
Miss Shurr taught at the High School of Performing Arts in New York for more than two decades, serving as chairman of the dance department for three years.
Educated at Cornell and Teachers College of Columbia University, she taught voice and English diction at the Mannes College of Music and the Manhattan School of Music.
"
        Ms. Paris, who was born in Manhattan, earned degrees in drama from the University of California at Los Angeles and Goddard College in Plainfield, Vt. She was playwright in residence at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and taught at the School of Visual Arts and the New School in Manhattan.
In the 1970's she was the social-services coordinator for the Community Affairs Department in Islip, L.I., for two years and taught at Adelphi's School of Social Work for six years.
Taught School for a Time
        Mrs. Everett was born in Fayetteville, N.C., where her father was a lawyer.
After graduating from the University of North Carolina, she taught school and worked at the Federal Research Information Bureau in Washington during World War I.
From 1976 to 1978, Ms. Carter was a fellow in creative writing at Sheffield University in England, and in 1980 and 1981 she was a visiting professor in the writing program at Brown University in Providence, R.I. She also taught at the Iowa Writers' Workshop.
Their parents taught them to harmonize.
Their parents taught them to harmonize.
She taught at the University of Chicago and at Princeton, Howard and Columbia universities before turning to university administration.
Taught French and English
        After traveling and teaching English and French, she entered New York Law School, where she got a law degree in 1956.
She worked with several hospitals in Paris in 1954 and 1955 and taught at the Pahlevi University in Shiraz, Iran, from 1967 to 1969.
Dr. Wedeen taught education courses at Brooklyn College since 1948 and was also assistant dean of students from 1966 to 1968.
She graduated from Smith College and for several years taught at the Brearley School in Manhattan.

        Ellen H. Johnson, an influential art historian and curator who taught at Oberlin College in Ohio for 38 years, died yesterday at her home in Oberlin.
She taught French in Cooperstown, N.Y., until World War II, when Cornell University started training Army officers in Russian.
They taught 46 dances from 16 nations when they toured Japan for six weeks under the auspices of the State Department in 1956.
In recent years, Mrs. Herman remained active as a teacher, using her home as headquarters, and she taught every summer at Folk Dance Camp, in Bridgton, Me.
Taught Short-Story Writing
        She taught short-story and critical writing at City College for four years in the 1960's and dramatic writing at New York University for several years in the 1980's.
Taught Short-Story Writing
        She taught short-story and critical writing at City College for four years in the 1960's and dramatic writing at New York University for several years in the 1980's.
Dr. Croix was born in Nanking, China, where her Presbyterian-missionary parents taught at the university.
She earned bachelor's and master's degrees and a doctorate in psychology at New York University, where she later taught educational psychology for 15 years.
She died after a short illness, said Janet De Cecilia, the coordinator of the interior design program at the New York Institute of Technology in Old Westbury, L.I., where Ms. Schroeder had taught.
In 1981 she moved to Richmond, where she taught at Virginia Commonwealth University until retiring as professor emerita in 1988.
Later, she taught social work at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and maintained an active practice in cognitive therapy.
In the 1930's she was commissioned to do busts of Anna Roosevelt, the daughter of Eleanor and Franklin D. Roosevelt; Lily Pons, the opera singer, and Rubin Goldmark, a composer who taught in the 1930's at the Juilliard School.
Mrs. Ingersoll, who was born in Manhattan, taught crafts at the Henry Street Settlement House and the City and Country School in Manhattan.
"
        She taught in 1938 at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth and from 1938 to 1944 at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, where she headed her own company.
Dr. Wiesner taught dance before World War II at the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Chicago.
While her children were in school, she earned master's degrees in education and school psychology and taught at the Buckley Country Day School in Roslyn, L.I.
She lectured widely and taught at Hofstra University, Adelphi University and Queens College of the City University of New York.
Ms. Bennett was born in Tampa, Fla. After graduating from the University of Florida, she earned a master's degree in psychology at West Georgia College in Carrolton, Ga. and taught psychology at Santa Fe Community College in Gainesville, Fla.
She taught and did research at the University of Chicago from 1964 to 1972, when she joined the Minnesota faculty.
Ms. Bennett was born in Tampa, Fla. After graduating from the University of Florida, she earned a master's degree in psychology at West Georgia College in Carrolton, Ga. and taught psychology at Santa Fe Community College in Gainesville, Fla.
She taught there and also worked on a Federal survey of black workers and on a college integration program.
She then taught at the University of Maryland, becoming assistant director of the general ecducation program and then assistant dean of graduate studies.
After retiring from the Met, she taught for 10 years at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts before moving to Sarasota.
Mrs. Simonson, a native of Brooklyn and a graduate of the Columbia University teacher training program, taught sixth grade at Public School 61 in the Bronx for most of her 35-year teaching career.
After attending Northwestern University, she began modeling in Chicago and then taught modeling there.
"  Simple Beginnings
        With nothing more than a high school education and an upbringing that taught her that she would have to work for everything she would ever get, Miss Parnis started her career in New York in a blouse showroom.
The Magic of Paper
        Mrs. Oppenheimer taught origami to kindergartners, scout troops, Yale students, corporate executives and nursing home residents.
She taught and produced documentaries at the School of Epidemiology and Public Health, a part of the Yale School of Medicine.
At Yale, she taught a course entitled Health Communications.
Dr. Solomon, a historian, taught Harvard's first course on the history of American women, the forerunner of what evolved into a broader women's studies program.
Before working at Grace, Sister Joseph taught at St. Raymond's Academy and Spellman High School in the Bronx and was the director of St. Joseph's Academy in Greenwich Village.
She taught at Harvard since 1956.
Since the early 1980's she taught there and at City College and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
It taught children and also provided teacher-training in early childhood education.
In 1955 she married Tobias Stone of Las Vegas, Nev., a champion bridge player who taught her to play the game.
Hadassah was also a popular teacher, known for her great warmth, who taught Israeli and Indian dance across the United States and abroad.
Her death was reported yesterday by Columbia University, where she had taught for 35 years.
She taught piano for many years at the Henry Street Settlement and taught voice for 20 years at Juilliard and at the Manhattan School of Music.
She taught piano for many years at the Henry Street Settlement and taught voice for 20 years at Juilliard and at the Manhattan School of Music.
Miss Holm was dancing with Wigman's troupe by 1921 and taught in her school in Dresden.
After earning a master's degree in education from the New School for Social Research in 1970, she taught at Escuela Hispana in Manhattan until her retirement in 1980.
She died of pneumonia, said a spokesman for the DellaVeccia Funeral Home in Southington, Conn.
        A member of the Hartford public school system for many years, Miss Regan taught English at Weaver and Bulkeley high schools.
She served as dean of women at the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music and taught French literature at Nebraska Wesleyan and Aix-en-Provence before her marriage in 1953 to Dr. Hoxie.
Dr. Hoxie became the first dean of the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University in 1955 and tended to its academic growth while his wife taught French and acted as the college's official hostess.
Before that, she taught history and economics at Hunter College High School from 1929 to 1937.
She also shaped the careers of thousands of grateful performers, including Marlon Brando, Warren Beatty and Robert De Niro, at the Stella Adler Conservatory of Acting, which she founded in Manhattan in 1949 and where she taught for decades.
"
        "Your talent is in your imagination," she taught.
" But most of her students shared the view of another who concluded, "Stella Adler taught me more in five minutes today than any of my other teachers have taught me in five years.
" But most of her students shared the view of another who concluded, "Stella Adler taught me more in five minutes today than any of my other teachers have taught me in five years.
Before joining the Hunter faculty, she taught at New York University and Columbia, where she was research director of the school's Industrial Social Welfare Center.
"He was the only one who really got me out of a rut of playing sweet-faced ingenues and taught me how to play comedy," she told an interviewer in the early 1950's.
