She taught for a year in the Friends Central School in Philadelphia, then attended the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, where she studied portrait painting and won a scholarship for European travel.
From 1961 to 1972, Mrs. Adloff taught political science at the University of California.
Miss Simon, who came to the United States from Poland in 1913, taught economics at James Monroe High School in the Bronx for 30 years before retiring in 1962.
Earlier she had been a professor of English and acting dean of women at Hollins College and taught English at Bryn Mawr and Wellesley Colleges.
She was 83 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J.
        Mrs. Meyers, a native of Ravenna, Ohio, was a graduate of Oberlin and received a master's degree from New York University, where she taught physical education from 1930 to 1939.
She retired in 1979 but still taught occasionally.
For 20 years while her husband was president of Colgate University, Mrs. Case taught a literature course at Colgate and published ''Written in Sand'' (1945), a historical novel, and ''Freedom's Farm'' (1946), a poetry collection.
After the death of her husband, John, she joined the Peace Corps in 1970 and taught journalism and writing for several years in Ghana and Costa Rica.
''We taught them about the ballet.
She studied piano and composition with Nadia Boulanger and Roger Sessions and taught music at Western College for Women in Oxford, Ohio, in the 1930's.
Mrs. Slesinger, a graduate of Wellesley College, also taught at the Cherry Lawn School in Darien, Conn., in the 1920's.
She also taught at Juilliard School and the Manhattan School of Dance, and for many summers at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival.
Serge Diaghilev chose her for his company in 1920 after seeing her in a class taught by Cecchetti.
She and Tudor ''nipped'' at each other's teaching, as one student put it, as colleagues at the Metropolitan, with Tudor sometimes teaching students wild variations on the strict steps and gestures she had taught them the day before.
Mrs. Meyer graduated from Hunter College in 1919 and taught music in the New York public schools.
In World War II, while her husband taught celestial navigation to pilots in Mississippi, she managed his Fifth Avenue leather goods store, Lederer de Paris.
Mrs. Thomas taught classes throughout the East.
''
        Mrs. de Kooning - who taught at 15 colleges and universities, including Yale University, Carnegie-Mellon University, Cooper Union and Bard College - was also remembered for her enthusiasm as a teacher and her self-defined role as a ''fairy godmother'' to young artists.
Previously she taught at the University of Miami in Florida and at Connecticut College.
She taught voice privately until 1981, and in recent years she gave master classes at C. W. Post College and Long Island University.
She also wrote nonfiction articles and newspaper and magazine columns, and she taught writers' workshops.
Mrs. Gratwick, a great-granddaughter of Henry J. Raymond, founder of The New York Times, taught English in Massachusetts, Connecticut and New York City.
A native of Salem, Mass., she studied at the Sorbonne in Paris and taught at the Buckingham School in the 1930's.
She was born in Nova Scotia, attended Acadia College and taught in a one-room schoolhouse before her marriage to Owen Rumsey, a fellow teacher.
The couple moved to New Britain, where Mr. Rumsey taught high school.
Mrs. Wiener taught in New York high schools for more than 30 years.
Mrs. Wiener taught in New York high schools for more than 30 years.
Miss Carhart, a graduate of Barnard College and Columbia University, joined Hunter in 1921 and taught courses in mineralogy and petrology.
In the 1940's Ms. Lansdown taught at the Dalton School and the City and Country School in Manhattan, where she developed a ''hands-on'' method of teaching science to elementary and high school students, known as the investigative colloquium method.
She later became a professor of education at Brooklyn College and also taught at Hunter College and the Harvard Graduate School of Education.
Before she joined the Queens College faculty in 1972 she taught at C. W. Post College.
'' She had also taught at the universities of New Hampshire and Wisconsin at Madison.
She taught at Long Island University and was a Fulbright Lecturer in music at the Free University of Berlin in 1969.

       Dr. Isabelle Liberman, an authority on reading disabilities who taught for 21 years at the University of Connecticut, died on Thursday at her home in Mansfield Center, Conn. She was 71 years old.
Dr. Liberman wrote widely on dyslexia, and at her death she was a research associate at the Haskins Laboratories in New Haven, which is associated with Yale and the University of
        Dr. Isabelle Liberman, an authority on reading disabilities who taught for 21 years at the University of Connecticut, died on Thursday at her home in Mansfield Center, Conn. She was 71 years old.
Dr. Baker taught at City College, at Long Island University and at the graduate division of Hunter College.
Earlier, she taught physical education in the Montreal public schools and in the 1920's, taught in the New Jersey State teacher-training summer school at Newton, N.J., and at Rutgers University.
Earlier, she taught physical education in the Montreal public schools and in the 1920's, taught in the New Jersey State teacher-training summer school at Newton, N.J., and at Rutgers University.
In 1976 she joined the staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research in Manhattan, where she did research and taught at the doctoral level.
A graduate of the University of Iowa, Dr. Goodykoontz taught at rural schools in Iowa and Wisconsin and at the University of Pittsburgh before being appointed to the No.

       Mary Whitcomb DeGrange, the director of the Federal Music Project in New York City, which taught thousands of people during the Depression, died on Wednesday at the National Orthopedic Hospital in Alexandria, Va. She was 90 years old and had lived in Greenwich Village for more than 60 years.
Mary Whitcomb DeGrange, the director of the Federal Music Project in New York City, which taught thousands of people during the Depression, died on Wednesday at the National Orthopedic Hospital in Alexandria, Va. She was 90 years old and had lived in Greenwich Village for more than 60 years.
Mrs. DeGrange, a graduate of Northwestern University, taught at the Greenwich House Music School in the Village and was later an editor of music texts for Prentice-Hall, Silver Burdette and Columbia University.
Professor Gross, whose specialty was medieval art, taught at the college for 20 years, retiring in 1981.
Professor Gross, whose specialty was medieval art, taught at the college for 20 years, retiring in 1981.
Mrs. Lampkin, a graduate of the Columbia School of Social Work, was a former associate dean of the Hunter College School of Social Work, where she also taught for many years.
''
        Ms. Lester, a graduate of Hunter College and New York University, taught at City College, Jersey City State College and New York University.
Dr. Chaplin, who was educated in England, taught at General Seminary from 1953 until retiring in 1971.
She had also taught English and journalism at Ridgewood High School.
Professor Blodgett, a graduate of Wellesley College and New York University, taught English at Hofstra for 29 years, starting as an instructor when Hofstra was a branch of New York University and had one building with 150 students.
Parks also performed and taught in welfare hotels.

       Florence Bonime, a novelist who taught fiction writing at the New School for Social Research for 10 years in the 1960's and 70's, died in her sleep on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Florence Bonime, a novelist who taught fiction writing at the New School for Social Research for 10 years in the 1960's and 70's, died in her sleep on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Over the years she taught at many places, including the Juilliard School and the School of Performing Arts in New York City and the University of California at Santa Cruz, California State University at Long Beach and the University of Hawaii.
She taught Hebrew and music in Israel before coming to the United States in 1957.
She was a sharp critic of political polls (''fortune telling''), she opposed Sunday parades on Fifth Avenue (she lived a few steps off the avenue), and she was ever alert to catch misuse of the English language in print (she had taught English in her youth).
She had also taught at Brooklyn and Mount Holyoke Colleges and Fordham and New York Universities.
She taught letters at the Lycee Moliere in Paris and was an accomplished literary critic, especially on the works of the philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre.
She was head of the voice department at the Cleveland Institute from 1963 to 1972, and taught at the Juilliard School in the 1970's and at Brooklyn College in the 1980's.
Professor Landers taught at Hunter for almost 50 years, retiring in 1975.
After coming to New York with her husband, Mrs. Kirk taught music for many years.
She taught courses at New York University, Fordham, C. W. Post College and Brooklyn College.
She taught at the center's Payne Whitney Psychiatric Clinic from 1932 to 1940.
She taught physics at Illinois and at North Carolina State University and did research at Stanford University and with the United States Public Health Service.
Previously, she had taught English at Harvard, at Boston University and at Vassar College.
Dr. Lawson, who received her doctorate at Bryn Mawr College, taught at Mount Holyoke from 1942 until 1976, when she became professor emerita.
After retirement she taught at Hampshire College, Wheaton College and Amherst College.
Professor Ronsheim taught English at the C. W. Post Center of L.I.U.

        Elisabeth Robb Bettman, who taught English at the University of Cincinnati for 25 years, died Nov. 26 at Jewish Hospital in Cincinnati.
