She was 78 years old and lived in Piscataway, N.J.
        Miss Chapman, a native of Wayne, Neb., was dean from 1964 to 1973 and taught nursing until her retirement in 1975.
Mrs. Vaughan taught Shakespearean acting at the festival and at Circle in the Square Theater School.
She founded the School of Natya with Ruth St. Denis in 1940 in New York, where she taught and performed with her company, the Five Natyas, and presented such guest lecturers as Pearl S. Buck, Coomaraswamy, Lin Yutang, Ted Shawn and Argentinita.
She taught and performed with her own company at the New York School of Natya, which was absorbed into the Ethnologic Dance Center she founded in 1942.
La Meri taught at universities across the nation.
She also taught and performed at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival and taught at the Juilliard School in New York.
She also taught and performed at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival and taught at the Juilliard School in New York.
Born in the Bronx, she graduated from Hunter College and taught in the New York City school system for 40 years until she retired in 1973.
From 1939 to 1960, she taught music at the Henry Street Settlement on the Lower East Side.
Mrs. Calkins taught at the American School in Ceylon, now Sri Lanka, and at Tunghai University in Taiwan.
She taught at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School in Piscataway, N.J., and the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey in Newark.
She taught in the New York City school system before becoming a member of the Presentation Sisters of Staten Island, where she worked as a teacher for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York.
Our orchestra has some old experienced hands who cannot be taught very much.
Miss Ferguson joined the speech department at Hunter in 1932 and taught until her retirement in 1964.

       Petra Tolle Shattuck, a lawyer who specialized in the legal status of American Indians and who taught civil liberties and American constitutional law at the City University of New York, died Wednesday after suffering a cerebral hemorrhage a week ago.
Petra Tolle Shattuck, a lawyer who specialized in the legal status of American Indians and who taught civil liberties and American constitutional law at the City University of New York, died Wednesday after suffering a cerebral hemorrhage a week ago.
She was appointed an assistant professor of elementary education in 1923, after having taught philosophy at Alfred University and psychology at the New Jersey State Teachers College in Trenton.
She taught at Vassar College before joining the Public Health Research Institute, a nonprofit agency in New York.
Miss Behrend taught courses in American music and piano at a variety of institutions in Philadelphia as well as at the Juilliard School in New York.
Before going to Bradford, Miss Bell taught classics at Oberlin College, where she had earned a bachelor's degree.
In the 1940's she also taught at the Washington College of Law, now part of American University.
In fact, it was meant as an alternative to the Lycee Francais, where Mrs. Correa had taught mathematics and science for almost 30 years.
Miss Hartwig, a petite woman who wore her hair in a trademark ponytail, was a sculpture instructor at the Montclair Art Museum in Montclair, N.J., from 1945 to 1971 and had previously taught sculpture at Cooper Union.
Dr. Kanof, who was born in Brooklyn and was a former head of the department of dermatology at the Children's Hospital National Medical Center, also taught dermatology at Georgetown and Howard universities' medical schools.
''
        The poet, who was born in Brooklyn, taught writing and poetry at New York University, Sarah Lawrence, Columbia University, the New Jersey College for Women, the University of Washington and Purdue University.
Dr. Kanof, who was born in Brooklyn and was a former head of the department of dermatology at the Children's Hospital National Medical Center, also taught dermatology at Georgetown and Howard universities' medical schools.
She served 12 years at Alderson, W.Va. After her release, she moved to Columbus and taught music at a kindergarten.
After serving 12 years, she was released on parole from the Federal Reformatory for Women in Alderson, W.Va. She then taught music in the convent school of the Sisters of the Poor Child Jesus in Columbus.
She taught magazine writing at Hunter College and the New School for Social Research in Manhattan.
She was 78 years old and lived in Cranbury, N.J.
        Dr. Young, who held a doctorate in social work from Columbia University, taught social work at Columbia and Ohio State University.
She insisted that any dog could be trained and showed that they could be taught within minutes with ''tone of voice, telepathy and a little bit of loving.
A graduate of Butler University, she taught in the Indianapolis public school system for 35 years, retiring in 1965.
Taught at Universities
        She taught at the Graduate School of Journalism of the University of California at Los Angeles from 1950 to 1952, and at other universities over the years.
Taught at Universities
        She taught at the Graduate School of Journalism of the University of California at Los Angeles from 1950 to 1952, and at other universities over the years.
From 1936 until 1965, she taught at Dalton, where she established a community-service program that became a widely copied model.
In 1966, after her husband's death, she taught English in Tunisia as a Peace Corps volunteer, then toured the United States to promote enlistment of the elderly in the corps.
She was appointed professor of psychology at Briarcliff College in 1953 and taught there until 1972, when she retired.
''
        She earned her doctorate at the New York University School of Education, where she taught in the 30's and 40's.
Mrs. Baltimore taught at the New School for Social Research from 1958 to 1966.
From 1965 to 1977, she taught experimental psychology at Sarah Lawrence.

       Hazel W. Hertzberg, who taught history and education at Teachers College of Columbia University and was an authority on American Indian history, died Wednesday while attending a conference in Rome.
She was 70 years old and lived in Palisades, N.Y.
        Hazel W. Hertzberg, who taught history and education at Teachers College of Columbia University and was an authority on American Indian history, died Wednesday while attending a conference in Rome.
She taught at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts and at Cooper Union and was the author and illustrator of many children's books, among them ''One Little Goat'' (1979, Holiday House), ''Captain Jiri and Rabbi Jacob'' (1976, Holiday House) and ''Deborah the Dybbuk'' (1978, Holiday House).
and taught school in Short Hills, N.J., before her marriage to Mr. Wilson in 1918.
She also ran a Head Start program in Manhattan and taught at the Riverside Church nursery.
''
        At Gamage's she met her first Pygmalion, Maj. John Graham Gillam, who employed her in the iron and steel company in which he was an executive, taught her table manners and coached her to free herself of her Cockney accent.
She taught school in Oklahoma, Kentucky and, for more than 15 years, at the Dalton School in Manhattan.
Before teaching at John Jay College, Miss Schreiber taught for many years at the New School for Social Research and at Adelphi College.
''She taught a younger generation of dealers, collectors and museum professionals a great deal about an esthetic that she understood very well.
Mrs. Gordon, a native of the Bronx, taught in the New York City public schools for 35 years.
From 1951 to 1968, she taught English at Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn.
