Ms. Costello joined the faculty of the Curtis Institute in 1962, and taught harpists who eventually took positions in many of the world's great orchestras, including the Berlin Philharmonic, the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra, the St. Louis Symphony and the National Symphony.
During his medical residency, she taught at Bennington College in Vermont.
She taught a freshman seminar.
She taught at Emporia State University in Kansas and George Williams College in Chicago before joining the dance program at U.C.L.A.
On her retirement from U.C.L.A., Dr. Hawkins taught for more than 10 years in the dance department at Santa Monica College.
She taught at Sarah Lawrence College for 13 years until 1946, when Cornell formed the new branch on its Ithaca, N.Y., campus and appointed her as its first faculty member.
She wrote the curriculum for the school and taught courses in arbitration, labor law and labor practices.
She did research and taught at the University of Illinois from 1939 to 1950, when she became the first woman with a Ph.D. in physics on the Brookhaven faculty.
''
        As she became increasingly active, she shared speakers' platforms with Jane Addams, the founder of Hull House in Chicago; worked in St. Louis with a social welfare agency, and taught at a cooperative farming community in Arkansas.
As a professor of education and an author who specialized in curriculum development, Dr. Miel (pronounced mile) taught and left her imprint on the subject throughout the country and around the world.
She taught and wrote that a good teacher was a student with the world as the classroom.
Her career started in Ann Arbor, Mich. She taught elementary and secondary school and became a principal.
Ms. Gellhorn had little use for most war reporting after the Vietnam War, saying that the press' role in ending that conflict had taught military leaders a lesson.
During her years in New York she taught choral conducting at the Juilliard School and Union Theological Seminary, and she formed the American Choral Foundation, an organization that sought to raise the standards of choral performance.
Mrs. Epelbaum, who once taught literature, was a fearless, outspoken critic of the military Government.
She also taught psychology at Sarah Lawrence College.
She taught at Benjamin Franklin High School in Manhattan, and she retired as an administrator at the College of New Rochelle in 1985.
She was taught there by her mother -- who also danced professionally -- before entering the famous ballet school there.
Along the way she taught English at a private school in England and at Walden School in New York, where she also worked as a researcher for the Zionist Youth Commission and as a Hebrew translator for the Office of War Information.
After her marriage in 1952, she taught English literature at Black Mountain College in North Carolina.
The cause was Parkinson's disease, according to Teachers College of Columbia University, where Dr. Lambertsen headed the department of nursing education from 1961 to 1970 and taught doctoral courses on nursing leadership into the late 1980's.
She taught art at Dobbs Ferry High School until 20 years ago and continued her painting in the San Francisco Bay area until last December.
In addition to her writing, Mrs. Douglas taught at the University of Miami from 1925 to 1929 and also lectured at Pennsylvania State University in the late 1920's.

        P. W. Manchester, a Britain-born critic with wide-ranging interests who edited important dance magazines in London and New York, co-edited a dance encyclopedia and taught dance history, died on Monday at Deaconess Hospital in Cincinnati.
She also taught at the University of Utah and the North Carolina School of the Arts and was an adjudicator, arranging programs for regional ballet festivals.
Born in Danville, Va., and educated at Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia and at New York University, Ms. Carden taught at Radford College in Virginia before coming to Brooklyn College in 1955.
Only the third woman to be named to the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania's medical school, Dr. Mudd, who later became the first woman to become a full professor there, taught the first course at an American medical school dealing with sexuality, a speciality that led her to help edit Alfred Kinsey's book on female sexuality and to work closely with the Masters and Johnson clinic in St. Louis, to which she contributed thousands of case histories from her own practice.
Her Welsh grandfather, a country squire and scholar, taught her Greek philosophy and private tutors coached her in other subjects.
A native of Geneva, Fla., Dr. Lansing, who was born Marjorie Tillis, graduated from the old Florida State College for Women in Gainesville, taught high school in Sanford, Fla., and made a life-changing trip to Europe.
Professor Grenander, known as M. E. Grenander, taught at the State University of New York at Albany  from 1948 until she retired in 1989 as a Distinguished Service Professor of English.
Throughout these years, Ms. Jones taught at Howard University and elsewhere.
For Mrs. Whaley, an accomplished pianist and ballroom dancer who helped start the Cotillion, a dancing school that has become a Charleston social fixture, and once taught chess, gardening came more than naturally.

        Ginette Mathiot, who taught French cooking to the French with such succinct authority that her basic book of recipes sold more than five  million copies, died on June 14 at a retirement home in Paris.
She received a bachelor of arts in economics and a master's in economic history from the University of East Anglia in England, where she later taught.
From 1977 to 1984 she taught acting at the Lee Strasberg Theater Institute, and she founded Actors Conservatory with Ms. Lodge in 1987.
Betty Harragan's book ''Games Mother Never Taught You: Corporate Gamesmanship for Women'' was published in 1977 by Rawson Associates; since then, more than one million copies have been published in paperback by Warner Books.
She then taught at the company's school.
She was invited to take the legendary museum course taught by Paul J. Sachs, the Fogg's associate director.
She taught for a time at the Dalton School, Hunter College High School and Hunter College.
Born in Philadelphia, Lillian Aberman Hoban attended the Philadelphia Museum School of Art, studied dance with Martha Graham and taught modern dance in New York and Connecticut.
She taught herself to draw still lifes, using crayons and pastels, and started writing stories after she had her own children, basing her tales on their everyday adventures.
She taught in public schools in Maine, Pennsylvania and Connecticut before opening the Teacher Center.
In retirement Miss Smith wrote historical pamphlets on New England agriculture and taught herself bookbinding, selling leather-bound notebooks and other items at craft fairs to finance her yen for travel, which included 18 trips to England and the Continent, where as a young woman, it should come as no surprise, she had climbed the Matterhorn.
      
Her career started in 1948 when she appeared in a local NBC show in New York and pulled a rabbit out of a hat (her father had taught her the trick only the day before).
''By combining humor with teaching and entertainment,'' he said, ''Shari taught us we can laugh and learn at the same time.
She later joined the Smith faculty and taught at Sarah Lawrence for a year before going to Barnard in 1944.
In a collaboration in which she  took the lead in plotting and Ms. Hadley specialized in characters, Mrs. Irwin drew on the experiences of students she had taught in high school in developing the books' anguished themes.
Although children's literature had been taught in American universities since the turn of the century, generally as part of the library science or education curriculums, it was a reflection of the subject's lowly standing that it had no academic association and no academic journal.
From 1973 to 1979 she taught English at Princeton.
There on the prairie, she informally taught hundreds of visitors.
Since 1988 Mrs. Soreff had taught in the liberal studies program at the Parsons School of Design.
She taught at Cooper Union, the New School for Social Research, New York University and the City College of New York and gave private lessons.
She returned to school to earn a master's degree at Columbia University Teachers College in 1953 and taught at preparatory schools until retiring from the Masters School in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., in the late 1960's.
The United States was still at peace early in 1941 when she was introduced to a man who operated a flying service at Little Ferry, N.J., and in the course of the friendship he taught her how to fly the company's seaplane.
''We all had parachutes, and they taught us what to do if we had to bail out.
She was 84 and was recalled as the teen-age sensation who became the toast of New York and Paris, captivated crowned heads of Europe and taught the rumba to the Prince of Wales, Josephine Baker and a generation of Depression-weary revelers.
Within weeks, ''Mariana scarfs,'' copied from her costume, were on sale in chic French shops, Miss Parla had taught Josephine Baker to rumba and had made a side trip to Brussels, where King Leopold was so enchanted he gave her a box of chocolates so big she danced on it for him.
A 1952 Barnard College graduate who taught a year at a private girls' school and worked another year as a police reporter and feature writer for The Bergen Evening Record before marrying and settling into a suburban routine, Mrs. Lukens, who was born in Philadelphia and grew up in northern New Jersey, was typical of a generation of women who put their families before careers.
Ms. Blau taught Indian classical dance for many years in New York and also at colleges throughout the country.
She also taught at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival and the Eugene O'Neill National Theater for the Deaf.
Ms. Miller eventually received degrees from the University of Houston and taught creative writing at the University of St. Thomas, near her home.
Dr. Radley, an expert in 19th-century poetry, taught throughout her years as an administrator.
She taught at Oswego until 1992, when she returned to Russell Sage College in Troy to teach as a resident scholar.
Hemingway taught her to catch and gut fish.
She also taught at the London Contemporary Dance School from 1984 to 1987 and, from early in her career, at universities and dance festivals throughout the United States.
Dr. Abel taught at the University of Illinois and at Sarah Lawrence College and later became the director of research at the Manhattan Trade School for Girls.
