From 1951 to 1970 she taught the most advanced class at the Kirov and was a coach there from 1963 to 1978.
From 1964 on, she taught at the Vaganova Academy.
She taught second grade in the New York public schools.
Ms. Schimmel taught generations of students in a breathtaking style that included lecturing with her eyes closed and reciting long passages of mystical poetry from memory.
For several years she taught theology at the University of Ankara in Turkey, the first woman and the first non-Muslim to do so.
The couple taught at the New School for Social Research in New York, where she earned a master of social science degree in 1943.
They settled in Cypress, where she taught singing.
When she died, she was an assistant professor at Mills College, in Oakland, where she taught fiction-writing to undergraduates and graduate students.
She rode fighting bulls in Spain, taught Dale Evans how to ride and performed movie stunts into her 80's.
Ms. Collins taught dance, choreographed, performed on Broadway and in film and appeared frequently on television.
Ms. Collins was most active during the 1950's, when she toured with her own dance group throughout the United States and Canada and taught at academies including the School of American Ballet, affiliated with the New York City Ballet; Harkness House; and the San Francisco Ballet School.
''Having Diane in our lives, she taught us that winning and losing a lacrosse game isn't anything,'' Suzanne Eyler, a senior and the team's top scorer, told The Baltimore Sun afterward.
No heavy weights or elaborate machines were emphasized; classes were easy to follow and taught by people with less-than-perfect bodies.
Instead, she taught mentally retarded children in the Buffalo region for the state's Board of Cooperative Educational Services for about 30 years, even as her writing career flourished.
In 1956 she received an appointment as a fellow at Girton, where she taught and pursued her scholarly work.
While she taught some classes, she concentrated on research at Yale, Dr. Rakic said.
Ms. Fonaroff joined the Graham company in 1936 and the next year she taught Graham technique at Sarah Lawrence College.
She also taught movement for actors at the Neighborhood Playhouse.
In the late 1980's and into the 1990's Ms. Fonaroff also taught at schools in Oslo and Copenhagen.
Meg Clark, owner of Camp Waldemar in the Texas Hill Country, where Mrs. Reeves taught riding for 67 years, said she had been riding more this year than in previous years and was delighted that Dr Pepper remained so spirited.
She taught at two San Antonio high schools.
She eventually taught Western and English riding styles to the granddaughters of her original students.
In classes and individual sessions held as recently as this March, Ms. Selver taught students exercises focusing on breathing, movement and touch.
In 1963, she taught one of the first seminars at the Esalen Institute, the retreat in Big Sur, Calif.
She taught physical education at Leipzig University until being fired in the Nazis' purge of Jewish faculty members.
Gibson was coached there by Fred Johnson, the one-armed club pro, and taken up by the club's members, who taught her some more important lessons.
She taught high school English in Iowa and Michigan before coming to New York in 1957.
Chiang spoke almost no English, though his wife taught him to call her ''darling,'' and she served as his interpreter, often interspersing her own views.
Dr. Glass taught high school math while earning a master's degree in psychology from Towson State University.
Le Corbeiller published regularly in magazines like Apollo and taught in the Parsons/Cooper-Hewitt master's program and the Bard Graduate Center.
She quit after the war, when told she could keep the job if she moved to Tulsa, Okla.
        For many years, she taught swimming to children at the Lexington School for the Deaf in New York.

        Helen Gustafson, a tea buyer and author who championed fine tea, pushed it onto the menu at Chez Panisse and other restaurants and taught the art of the afternoon tea, died on Dec. 14 at her home here.
She spent much of her career at Berkeley, but also taught at the University of Rochester and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, among others.
