She was 80 years old and lived in Sun City, Ariz.
        Dr. Dietz taught at Brooklyn from 1949 until she retired in 1973.
A graduate of Radcliffe College, Mrs. Twombly had taught science at the Brearley School in Manhattan.
From 1965 to 1969 Mrs. Krebs managed 13 literacy centers in the Boston area, where adults were taught reading.
She taught at Wellesley College and at the Longy School and the New School of Music in Cambridge, Mass.
Mrs. Mattone taught for nine years in the Island Park, L.I., schools.
She was 84 years old and lived in Kennett Square, Pa.
        Mrs. Greenleaf taught art history at Cooper Union and the University of Minnesota, her alma mater.
She came with her family to the United States in 1908 and earned bachelor's and master's degrees from Cornell University, then taught high school in New York City.
In 1950 Miss Syrkin was named associate professor of English at Brandeis University, where she taught until her retirement in 1966 as professor of the humanities.
First Dance Work in 1923
        She enrolled in dance classes taught by Michio Ito in 1922, and performed as his partner in a series of recitals in 1923.
She taught children until last year, using the ''auditory-verbal'' method, in which the residual hearing of the deaf aids in speech development.
She wrote, lectured and taught extensively on the subject.
She had also taught science in the gifted children program at C. W. Post College, now the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University in Brookville, L.I.
She also had a private practice for 45 years and taught child care to nurses and medical students at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y.
        Dr. Koenig graduated from Barnard College in 1918 and was among the first women to graduate from the Johns Hopkins University Medical School in 1929.
Before joining Cornell, Dr. Schullian taught at Western Reserve University and Albion College.
'' She also published about 60 short stories, taught fiction at Yale and Wesleyan Universities, and was a board member of PEN.
During World War I, she taught at Hartt College in Hartford.

       Muriel Tannehill Dansereau, a lyric soprano who sang in opera houses in Europe and the United States, died of pneumonia on May 13 at a nursing home in Ossining, N.Y. She was 96 years old and had lived in Yorktown Heights, N.Y.
        Muriel Tannehill Dansereau, a lyric soprano who sang in opera houses in Europe and the United States, died of pneumonia on May 13 at a nursing home in Ossining, N.Y. She was 96 years old and had lived in Yorktown Heights, N.Y.
        Mrs. Dansereau was a native of Jersey City who performed in many tours of such operettas as ''Countess Maritza'' and ''Blossom Time'' and later taught voice at the Juilliard School and at her home.
After her broadcasting career in Rome and New York, she taught propaganda analysis at Columbia University, lectured widely at American colleges and wrote several books, including ''I Am My Beloved: the Life of Anita Garibaldi'' (1965).
'' Classical music was taught at the colony, and leading artists performed there.
After taking her vows, she taught mathematics for several years before becoming principal.

       Lucetta Harkness, who taught English at high schools in Queens for more than a quarter-century and then became a Methodist missionary teacher in Japan, died of an intestinal hemorrhage on July 18 at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
Lucetta Harkness, who taught English at high schools in Queens for more than a quarter-century and then became a Methodist missionary teacher in Japan, died of an intestinal hemorrhage on July 18 at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
She taught at Flushing and Bayside High Schools before her retirement in 1960, after which she went to Japan to teach English in church-sponsored junior colleges for seven years.
Miss Siloti taught at the New School in Cambridge, Mass., until last October, when she had a stroke.
She also taught privately at her home in New York, where her students included Eugene Istomin.

       Frances Woodworth Wright, a Harvard University astronomer who taught celestial navigation to Navy officers, died of cancer Sunday.
Frances Woodworth Wright, a Harvard University astronomer who taught celestial navigation to Navy officers, died of cancer Sunday.
She also taught Harvard undergraduates and weekend sailors and wrote three books on sailing by the stars.
Miss Wright taught astronomy and mathematics at Elmira College in New York before going to Harvard in 1928, where she became a lecturer.
When her career in New York began to falter, around 1940, she moved to Denver, where she taught and was a guest conductor.
She founded the Haitian Institute of Folklore and Classic Dance in 1954, and taught in Antigua, the Bahamas, Guyana, Jamaica and Trinidad.
She also taught at the Alvin Ailey American Dance Center School in Manhattan.
Taught at Eastman and Aspen
        For many years Miss DeGaetani taught at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester and at the summer festival in Aspen, Colo.
Taught at Eastman and Aspen
        For many years Miss DeGaetani taught at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester and at the summer festival in Aspen, Colo.
In addition to her psychiatric practice in Manhattan, she was an attending physician at several hospitals, including New York Hospital, and taught psychiatry at Cornell University Medical College from 1959 to 1984.
While in New York, she also taught at the Juilliard School.
After retiring in 1974, Miss Jackendorff taught English to the foreign-born in the School Volunteer Program.

       Mary Byrne Bocklett, a teacher in Long Beach, L.I., before her retirement, died of a heart attack Saturday at the home of her son, John J. Ferguson, in Greenwich, Conn. She was 76 years old and lived in Naples, Fla.
        Mary Byrne Bocklett, a teacher in Long Beach, L.I., before her retirement, died of a heart attack Saturday at the home of her son, John J. Ferguson, in Greenwich, Conn. She was 76 years old and lived in Naples, Fla.
        Mrs. Bocklett taught school for more than 25 years.
She had taught at Harvard University, had been a lecturer at Central Connecticut State College and Vassar, and had taught English at Connecticut College in New London from 1966 to 1970.
She had taught at Harvard University, had been a lecturer at Central Connecticut State College and Vassar, and had taught English at Connecticut College in New London from 1966 to 1970.
Mrs. Alsina, a native New Yorker, taught Spanish and French at Allendale Columbia, a coeducational college preparatory school, from the late 1950's until 1979.
From 1945 to 1961, she taught a course in juvenile literature at Columbia University.
Mrs. Beinecke, a graduate of the High School of Performing Arts in New York City and of Bennington College, taught dance at Smith College and Williams College.
Mrs. Beinecke, a graduate of the High School of Performing Arts in New York City and of Bennington College, taught dance at Smith College and Williams College.
Mrs. Wischnitzer, who taught at Stern College of Yeshiva University from 1956 until she retired in 1968, wrote four books and many articles on art history and architecture.
She established the Fine Arts Department in Yeshiva's Stern College, where she taught from 1956 to 1968, when she retired.
She taught at the Indiana University campuses in Bloomington and Jeffersonville, as well as at Harvard University and two now-defunct schools, the Louisville School of Art and Kentucky Southern College.
During that time she also taught at Bellevue.
She also spent a year as head coach at Warner Brothers Studio in 1948, and taught at Columbia University in 1955.
Dr. White taught at Harvard Medical School and was an assistant professor of medicine at Tufts.
