Ms. Marcus taught with a combination of wit and passion, and mainly at the Juilliard School.
The cause was a heart attack, said officials at the University of Pittsburgh, where Professor Rubin had taught for 21 years before retiring in 1981.
She taught at Yale and the University of Chicago before joining the University of Pittsburgh in 1960.
After earning a degree in art education from the University of Minnesota, she taught in the Detroit public schools and exhibited her watercolors of flowers, birds and city streets in group shows, mostly in and around Detroit.
Trained in flamenco, modern dance and ballet, she taught movement to nondance performers, including opera singers, musicians and actors.
She moved to New York City in 1953 and taught at her own studio until her death.
For the last seven years, Mrs. Lees also taught movement classes and worked on productions at the New Actors Workshop, which was founded in 1988 by Paul Sills, her nephew; Mike Nichols, and George Morrison.
Born in London and of Scottish descent, she attended boarding school in Bedfordshire, where she was taught sewing and knitting.
After her husband died in 1960, she taught at the League Center for Seriously Disturbed Children in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
She trained with Rudolf von Laban, the dance theoretician, and performed and taught with Ballet Jooss for five years.

        Dr. Beatrix T. Gardner, a psychologist who with her husband, Dr. R. Allen Gardner, taught a chimpanzee sign language in the 1960's and the 1970's, died while traveling with her husband in Padua, Italy, on June 5.
In the 1970's the couple announced that by raising a chimpanzee, Washoe, in the manner of a human child they had taught the ape to communicate using signs similar to those widely used by deaf human beings.
She returned to the United States and taught at Wellesley College, where she met Dr. Gardner, who was studying rats.
To support her art, she wrote book reviews and taught creative writing.
Born in a small town near Berlin, she studied at an innovative school where practicing artists taught free and applied art.
There, she taught art and art appreciation and discovered her interest in the artwork of young children.
Dr. Swap joined the faculty of Wheelock College in Boston in 1977 and taught courses in child development, special education, consultation and parent studies.
She taught at Tufts University before moving to Wheelock.
She also developed and taught a required course in psychopharmacology.
But it was clear that many people could be taught to read faster and more effectively.
And then they were taught not to!
After performing in summer stock, she established a school for teen-age performers that was absorbed by the State University of New York at Purchase, where she taught a generation of young actors and playwrights, including Matt Dillon.
A well-known portrait artist in Oyster Bay, Mrs. Roosevelt taught art at C. W. Post College in Brookville, L.I.
The few months in 1912 that she and Sadie taught in different parts of the South was the only time they did not live together.
She taught art in Pittsburgh for 17 years and operated her Selma Burke Art Center there from 1972 to 1981.
      
She had her own studio in Manhattan from 1938 to 1961 and later taught in Westwood, N.J. She retired from teaching in 1981.
An honors graduate of Langston, a state-run black college, she had been  recruited by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to test the state's harsh segregation laws, which, among other things, imposed a fine on any teacher who taught a mixed-race class.
" (Little Brown, 1980), a photo-documentary of a class in baby care taught at a boys' school in New York won an American Book Award in 1981 for children's hardcover non-fiction.
She taught from 1962 to 1991 at the Manhattan School of Music, from 1964 to 1990 at the Aspen Music Festival and School, and from 1971 to 1993 at the Juilliard School, where she was an emeritus member of the faculty until her death.
She took up the piano at an early age, and she and her brother Joseph were taught violin by their father.
She also taught Pinchas Zukerman, and encouraged him to play viola as well as violin.
"
        Miss Young, who taught at an Indianapolis high school and at the University of Iowa after Chicago, moved to New York in 1943 and burst on the literary scene two years later with the simultaneous publication of "Moderate Fable," which won the best poetry award from the National Academy of Arts and Letters, and "Angel in the Forest," a highly acclaimed account of successive utopian communities at New Harmony, Ind.
She came of age in the field when the art was taught, if at all, as an adjunct to college physical education courses.
"
        Ms. Hill also taught and choreographed at the University of Chicago and Kansas State Teachers College in the 1920's and 30's, at the University of Oregon and in colleges throughout the nation.
She then entered the  Vienna Conservatory as one of the first women to study violin there; her teacher was Otakar Sevcik, who also taught the conductor Jan Kubelik.
She moved to New York, where she continued to make regular  appearances and taught privately at the Mannes College of Music.
A small, sweet-faced woman with a gimlet eye for lapses in technique and general deportment, Miss Bruce taught for a half-century in a small loft studio  on West 125th Street in Manhattan.
Mrs. Geber studied briefly at the University of Southern California and later taught there while pursuing studio work and performing.
From 1986 until this year, Ms. Bambara taught script writing at Scribe Video  Center in Philadelphia.
She taught at the University of North Carolina and the University of Richmond before joining the Emory faculty in 1981.
" Mrs. Shriver told of geography quizzes and bedtime stories, and said, "She taught us to listen to Dad's dinner table conversations about politics, which seemed too boring to a small child but later became the basis for our life's work.
After World War II, she taught dance at orphanages for children whose parents had been killed by the Nazis and directed her own ballet school in Paris.

        Nora Dunfee, an actress who taught for many years in the graduate acting program of the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, died on Dec. 23 at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan.
She also taught privately in New York and California and coached many actors over the years, including Julie Haydon, James Earl Jones, Raul Julia, Diane Keaton, Mel Gibson and Keanu Reeves.
She taught high school English in New York City before turning to writing.
She taught voice at Vassar College in 1949 and later taught at the new England Conservatory of Music in Boston, Manhattan School of Music, Queens College and elsewhere.
She taught voice at Vassar College in 1949 and later taught at the new England Conservatory of Music in Boston, Manhattan School of Music, Queens College and elsewhere.
She taught at several of the order's high schools around the country in the 1940's and 50's.
She was dean of studies at Rosemont College from 1962 to 1964, and taught theology and scripture at Rosemont from 1964 to 1969.
Division was taught with visits to the kitchen to slice carrots.
She was raised mostly in Greenwich Village by a grandmother who taught her to read when she was only 2.
She was raised mostly in Greenwich Village by a grandmother who taught her to read when she was only 2.
She taught courses in American folk music at the University of Southern California, and was an author, with her husband, of "Charles Ives and His Music" (1955).
She taught at junior and senior high schools in Massachusetts and Thailand before joining the faculty of American University in 1973.
For more than 40 years, she taught voice at her studio in Katonah and several colleges.
During the 17 years Mrs. Turkevich taught Russian and Spanish literature and a popular course on the modern European novel, she was relegated to the position of lecturer, subject to annual contract renewals.
Mrs. Rowell taught for 14 years at the San Francisco Conservatory of Music, and was on the faculties of the University of California at Berkeley, Stanford University, Mills College and San Francisco State University.
She also taught there from 1951 to 1963, establishing a program for children and children's dance teachers that became the Merry-Go-Rounders, a highly successful company that presented dance for children.
