The Delanys were house slaves of a St. Marys, Ga., family named Mock, who taught them to read and write.
Among them were Girls' High School in Brooklyn, Evander Childs High School in the Bronx and Washington Irving High School in Manhattan, where she taught adults at night.
Ms. Engel also appeared in Broadway shows and taught at the American Academy of Dramatic Art.
Taught alternately at a private school in Oxford and at home by a governess, she had a precocious interest from earliest youth in being a more active participant in life than the conventions of an upper-class girl's upbringing in Britain allowed.
Dr. Kestenberg, a professor emeritus at New York University Medical School, taught generations of psychiatrists, psychologists, psychoanalysts and other experts on development, mental health and dance-movement therapy.
She taught in the New York City public school system for a decade and a half until the early 1940's, and was prominent in fund-raising for the founding of Brandeis University, which opened in 1948.
She attended a high school for a year in Wichita, Kan., where some members of her family lived, and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in 1926 from Barnard, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was taught by the anthropologists Ruth Benedict and Franz Boas.
In addition, before joining the Barnard faculty as an instructor in 1938, she taught at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and was a research assistant at the Yale University Institute of Human Relations, at Columbia, and at the International Institute of Social Research in New York.
Next, she taught chemistry and physics in the New York City school system before earning a master's degree in chemistry at New York University in 1941.
Over the years, she was in private practice in New York, worked as a psychologist for Federal agencies and taught at universities in various parts of the country before moving to the University of Florida in 1968.
She taught courses on state and local government at Barnard College, and retired from CUNY in 1969.
Ms. Garth also taught dance.
They just taught us thermodynamics and classical mechanics, and that bored me.

        Lois Wann, an oboist who played in several American orchestras and taught at the Juilliard School and the Mannes College of Music, died on Feb. 23 at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 87.
Ms. Wann taught at Juilliard from 1936 to 1992 and at Mannes College from 1946 to 1976.
She also taught at Vassar and Manhattanville Colleges, the Henry Street Settlement and the United Nations International School.
After World War II, she taught notation for the American Dance Festival when it was at Connecticut College in New London.
She taught dance and notation at various colleges and directed the dance program at Mount Holyoke College from 1953 to 1975.
After returning to China, she taught at McTyeire and taught physical education at Ginling College in Nanjing, and from 1935 to 1947, she was a vice president of the world Young Women's Christian Association.
After returning to China, she taught at McTyeire and taught physical education at Ginling College in Nanjing, and from 1935 to 1947, she was a vice president of the world Young Women's Christian Association.
For the next 30 years, she taught at the institute, the Mandarin House restaurant on West 13th Street and at her apartment on West 111th Street.
'' In the 1960's she worked with Mr. Weston, and during the 1970's she taught in Jamaica at the University of the West Indies and the Jamaica Institute of Music.
Chambers taught voice at Princeton University and the State University of New York at Purchase.
She taught Hebrew until 1928, when she was admitted to the law school with the first class to accept women.
''
        Ms. Boutelle, who taught art and architecture at the Brearley School in New York, became fascinated with Morgan when she visited San Simeon in 1972 and learned that its architect was a woman she had never heard of.
She studied at the Sorbonne as a Fulbright scholar and taught high school.
Brandel taught taste.
Ms. Ross, who taught arts policy at Empire State College, was also director of the Thayer Fellowship, which supported outstanding SUNY arts graduates in their first year of professional activity.
As company teacher and ballet mistress, Ms. Woolliams taught many of the company alumni who now direct major companies, including Jiri Kylian, William Forsythe and John Neumeier.
She was a Delta Airlines flight attendant in 1956 and 1957 and later taught English at Catholic and Georgetown Universities and other institutions in the Washington area.
Dr. Allen taught grievance procedures and labor economics and history at the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University in the early 1950's.
She taught English at the University of Padua in Italy from 1947 to 1949, and at the British Institute in Rome from 1949 to 1951.
She returned to England in 1953 and taught at the University of London.
Ms. Schatz studied at Bezalel and later taught there, and she was a member of Yad Vashem's board of directors.
There she taught staff members and worked with victims of strokes and dementia.
For nearly half a century, Ms. Katznelson taught Hebrew to Arabs and Arabic to Jews at Ulpan Akiva, an independent residential language school she founded in Netanya in 1951.
From the start, the program at Ulpan Akiva taught not only Jewish immigrants, but also Israel's Arab citizens and visitors from around the world.
Mr. Murray started by selling mail-order instructions -- all dotted lines, arrows and outlines of shoes -- and taught a ''magic step'' that he said could be used 30 ways.
She taught at the  University of Kansas, Ohio State University and the State University of New York at Fredonia.
After graduating from Berkeley in 1923 with a degree in economics, she taught at Hampton Institute in Virginia, which had a black student body but a predominantly white and paternalistic administration.

        M. C. Richards, a poet, potter, essayist, translator and painter, who taught at Black Mountain College in the late 1940's and thereafter became an impassioned advocate of community in both art and life, died on Friday at Camphill Village, an agricultural community in Kimberton, Pa., where she had lived since 1984.
She then began a brief marriage, and taught English at the Central Washington College of Education in Ellensburg, Wash., and at the University of Chicago.
At Black Mountain Ms. Richards taught writing, produced and, when necessary, translated plays by Cocteau, Satie and Yeats.
'' She lectured and taught workshops at schools in the United States, Canada and Britain.
She, in turn, taught many of the fourth- and fifth-generation Duncan dancers performing today, including her granddaughter, Amy Baird Garlin, and Lori Belilove, well known for her concerts in New York.
''
        After moving to California, Miss Garland taught Duncan's dancing under the auspices of the San Francisco Art Commission Neighborhood Arts Program and in private schools.
She taught at Oberlin College, Moravian College and Yale University.
She taught art at Junior High School 149 in the Bronx and retired after 41 years.
For 35 years, Mrs. Hirschland taught art history in the adult education program in the Great Neck public schools.
Her book, never intended for publication, ''just poured out,'' said Charley Kempthorne, a part-time farmer who taught a writing class at the Manhattan Adult Learning Center.
When the family moved to Paris, Tex., she befriended an elderly black guitar player who taught her the blues and became a major influence on her style.
She married a fellow Oxford student, Yang Xianyi, and the couple returned to China, where she taught for a while in Chongqing, China's wartime capital.
She also taught the technique of doing voice-overs for animation at the Kalmenson and Kalmenson Studios in Burbank.
She graduated from Swarthmore College as a German major, and then taught science at the Baldwin School, a private girls school in Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Ms. Cage also taught unofficial tai chi classes at the City Ballet-affiliated School of American Ballet.
She taught at the Yale School of Nursing and the University of Minnesota School of Nursing before being summoned to Washington.
A frequent performer on the summer stock circuit, Miss Francine was a regular presence at the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, Conn., where she taught at the annual cabaret symposium.
The cause was heart failure, said Ariadne Valsamis, a spokeswoman for the Harvard Graduate School of Education, where Dr. Chall taught for 26 years, until retiring in 1991.
The Bettelheim-Zelan book, which had been almost universally praised by other professional educators, argued that the ability to decode words need not be taught but instead was intuitive, resulting without effort from the reading of imaginative, interesting stories.
Many experts have de-emphasized phonics over the last two decades and instead adopted the whole-language approach, in which reading is taught through context rather than recognition of the alphabet.
She earned both a master's degree (1947) and a Ph.D. (1952) from Ohio State University, and taught at Ohio State, Teachers College of Columbia University and City College before joining the Harvard faculty.
