With her husband Herbert Berghof (who died in 1990), she ran the HB Studios in Manhattan and was celebrated not only as an actress but also as a teacher of acting and author of books on the subject.
In a recent interview, Mr. Albee recalled her ''extraordinary performances as Desdemona in 'Othello' and Martha in 'Virginia Woolf,' '' and praised Ms. Hagen first as ''a profoundly truthful actress'' and then as ''a dedicated and demanding teacher.
'' The play was forgettable, but she greatly admired Clurman as a director and teacher, and it was in that play that she met Berghof, who replaced another actor in the company.
Correction:  January 29, 2004, Thursday  An obituary of the Broadway actress and drama teacher Uta Hagen on Jan. 15 misidentified the German city where the cathedral is the site of a statue for which she was named.
When he took over the family business, he turned to his former teacher to help train his staff in reporting, writing and ethics.
Born in Chillicothe, Ohio, Mary Gardner never intended to be a journalist or a teacher; rather, she aspired to be a physician.
She came to New York for a year as an exchange teacher of philosophy and German literature at Hunter College while doing graduate work in the social sciences at Columbia.

        May O'Donnell, an early Martha Graham principal dancer and a modern-dance choreographer and teacher, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. O'Donnell was also an influential teacher.

        A memorial service for the actress and teacher Uta Hagen will be held on Thursday at 1 p.m. at the Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, Manhattan.

        Genia Melikova, a leading ballerina with the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas and a noted ballet teacher in the United States, died on March 5.
She became known as a gifted teacher and was praised by dance reviewers as a choreographer with a special aptitude for showing young students at their best in ballets that revealed her own sense of design and musicality.
Dr. Park, as she was known professionally, came from a family of academics: her mother was a teacher, her father and brother were also college presidents.
She said that schools facing teacher shortages should think about using television and older students to help with the teaching; both, she said, had proved effective.
She went to work as a teacher at Harmony School and took on the additional chore of managing the lunchroom.
Although she wanted to be a writer, Ms. Danziger began working as a substitute teacher in 1967 and taught at the junior high school level for several years.

        Phoebe Brand Carnovsky, an actress and distinguished acting teacher who was a founding member of the influential Group Theater, died on July 3 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, her son, Stephen Carnovsky, said.
Correction:  July 17, 2004, Saturday  An obituary of the actress and acting teacher Phoebe Brand Carnovsky on Monday misstated the forum in which the director Elia Kazan named her and her husband, the actor Morris Carnovsky, as Communists.

        Betty Oliphant, a British-born teacher who as director of the National Ballet School in Toronto became a leading figure in ballet, died on Monday in St. Catharines, Ontario, near Toronto.
A fearless and tireless dancer, choreographer, teacher and cultural crusader, Ms. Lewitzky struggled to make modern dance a major art form in California and to make Los Angeles an important dance center.
She developed a considerable reputation as a dynamic teacher, holding posts at the University of Southern California, the Idyllwild arts school (accepting an appointment there without signing its loyalty oath) and the California Institute of the Arts.
She also served as a guest teacher around the world.
Unable to find a permanent teaching job during the Depression, she joined the Unemployed Teachers Council and edited its newspaper, The Unemployed Teacher.
As a part-time teacher working with truants, she discovered her ability to help children learn to read.
What made Mrs. Child such an influential teacher was her good-humored insistence that competent home cooks, if they followed instructions, would find even complicated French dishes within their grasp.
Professor Hanson's presence as a teacher, role model and mentor inspired many students, especially women, to become art historians and curators.
There Dr. Marton worked as a French teacher in Maryland high schools.
''Madame Sousatzka,'' her 1962 novel about the tenuous bond between an eccentric piano teacher and a child prodigy, was adapted in 1988 into a film with Shirley MacLaine in the title role.
In the lessons, the teacher wrote a strip of characters, as Ms. Yang watched.
At 16, Helen left home to live in Greenwich Village with Yun Gee, a Chinese modernist painter she had met through an art teacher.
At 16, Helen left home to live in Greenwich Village with Yun Gee, a Chinese modernist painter she had met through an art teacher.
Sequels included ''Your Child and His Reading: How Parents Can Help'' (1960), ''A Teacher's Guide to Children's Books'' (1963) and nine other books for adults.
She graduated from Goucher College when she was 19 and became an English teacher like her mother, also named Nancy Larrick.
She astounded her teacher with her ability to do anything asked of her, and she was soon cast in dancing roles in Christmas pantomimes.
When she was 17, her piano teacher persuaded her to study voice at the conservatory with Ettore Campogalliani, who would later recall her as a scrupulous, perceptive student with a passion for music who kept a certain distance between herself and others.
Later the renowned vocal pedagogue Carmen Melis became her most important teacher.
In New York City, she was chairwoman of the dance department from 1954 to 1972 at the High School of Performing Arts, the subject of the movie ''Fame,'' and was teacher in charge of the school from 1973 to 1975.
