''The best teacher is the stage,'' she told an interviewer in 1981.
''My first voice teacher almost killed me,'' she said.
Born Moira Shearer King on Jan. 17, 1926, in Dumferline, Scotland, she trained with the Russian teacher Nicholas Legat and at the Sadler's Wells School.
Her shrewd intelligence and uncompromising yet sympathetic expectations for young dancers made her a popular teacher and director of academic programs, including the Washington School of Ballet.
In the late 1970's, Ms. Moffo went to a respected voice teacher, Beverley Johnson, to get her singing back in shape.
Ms. Gaines began her career in 1945 as a teacher in New York City public schools.
She preferred reading books surreptitiously to listening to the teacher.

        Helen Hobbs Jordan, an exacting and tart-tongued music teacher who instructed generations of performers in ear training and theory, including Melissa Manchester, Bette Midler and Tony Bennett, died on Wednesday at her suite in the Salisbury Hotel, near Carnegie Hall.
She had a long relationship with David Collyer, a Broadway singer and teacher, who died in 1996, and to the end kept a publicity photograph of him in her sitting room.

        Nadia Chilkovsky Nahumck, a performer and transcriber of dances by Isadora Duncan and an influential teacher, died on Sunday in Blue Bell, Pa. She was 98.
In 1933, she founded her own school in Boston; it was later directed by a student of hers, Elma Lewis, who became another influential teacher of black dancers.
When she was 5 she began attending James Gillespie's High School for Girls, where she became one of the crème de la crème of students selected for a specialized and somewhat unorthodox curriculum by Christina Kay, the teacher who would become the model for the protagonist in ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie'' (1961), which was later adapted for the stage and film.
It reappears in ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie,'' which provides a memorable example of a small and controlled community -- a girls school in Edinburgh in the 1930's -- in which the imperious teacher molds lives in a way few educators can.
She became a teacher in 1938, but quit the profession in 1952 when the Native Education laws were supplanted by the Bantu Education Act, and missionary schools were closed.
''Misfortune is my teacher,'' she often said.
Later, as a teacher, she examined the Catholic textbooks of her students more critically and was shocked by what she found.
In her later years, Ms. Kadison was an interpreter for Jewish immigrants from the Soviet Union and an acting teacher.

        Katherine Dunham, the dancer, choreographer, teacher and anthropologist whose pioneering work introduced much of the black heritage in dance to the stage, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.

        Barbara Furrer Goodman, a teacher and former chairwoman of the board of trustees at Teachers College at Columbia University, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
Ms. Becker, a New York City public school teacher for 33 years, was a founder of the Fifth Avenue Peace Parade Committee, which on Oct. 16, 1965, sponsored one of the nation's first major demonstrations against the Vietnam War.
She also danced in Martha Graham's company from 1931 to 1943 and was a teacher of modern-dance technique.
Ms. Maslow participated as a teacher and choreographer.

        Barbara Furrer Goodman, a teacher and former chairwoman of the board of trustees at Teachers College at Columbia University, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
Lorraine Hunt was born on March 1, 1954, in San Francisco to musical parents: Randolph Hunt, a music teacher and a conductor of community ensembles and operas, and Marcia Hunt, a contralto and a voice teacher.
Lorraine Hunt was born on March 1, 1954, in San Francisco to musical parents: Randolph Hunt, a music teacher and a conductor of community ensembles and operas, and Marcia Hunt, a contralto and a voice teacher.
She graduated from Smith College and briefly became a math teacher in Kalamazoo, Mich.
        Bridge was already an important part of her life.
Also an excellent bridge teacher, Mrs. Truscott wrote two best-selling bridge books, ''Winning Declarer Play'' (1969) and ''Bid Better, Play Better'' (1970).
Yet when she and her own teacher, Lisa Gardiner, founded the Washington School of Ballet in 1944 and then a small performing group, she set in motion a pioneering career that had national and international impact.
''To be a really good teacher, one has to truly want each person to learn and to want to touch each student,'' Ms. Day said.
Attracting pupils from throughout the country (Mr. McKenzie's mother brought him from Vermont), Ms. Day became a nationally recognized teacher.
A teacher at heart, Ms. Day was resigned to seeing her most talented pupils leave her company for wider horizons.
The clarity and musicality that Ms. Day favored as a teacher were reflected in the uncluttered look of the repertory and performances of the Washington Ballet.
''
        As for Ms. MacLaine, who grew up in the Washington area, she once thanked her beloved teacher at a benefit performance for recognizing her lack of talent and not encouraging her to go into ballet.
      
Friedrich Schwarzkopf's work as a teacher necessitated that the family move several times.
''
        Her teacher at the Hochschule für Musik, Lula Mysz-Gmeiner, though distinguished in her field, inexplicably believed that Miss Schwarzkopf should be a contralto.
Forty-two years ago, Mrs. Gray Adams, a teacher, door-to-door saleswoman of Beauty Queen cosmetics and leader of voter education classes from the hamlet of Palmers Crossing, on the edge of Hattiesburg, Miss., decided to take on Senator John C. Stennis, the Mississippi Democrat who at the time had been in the Senate for 16 years.
''
        In the last 25 years, Ms. Hayden also established herself as an influential teacher.
Ms. Hayden was born on April 25, 1923, in Toronto, where she began ballet lessons at 12 with the Moscow-trained teacher Boris Volkoff.

        Gay Delanghe, a modern-dance choreographer and performer whose work was staged in New York in the 1960's and 70's and who became an influential teacher, died on Aug. 1 in Ann Arbor, Mich. She was 65.

        Julia Levien, a leading authority on the dances of Isadora Duncan and a teacher of her technique, died on Sunday at her home on Roosevelt Island.
A small, no-nonsense woman, Ms. Levien spoke her mind as a teacher in upbeat ways and had boundless curiosity -- and opinions.
She later married Charles Goldhammer, an artist and teacher; the marriage was reported to have ended in 1954.
She lived on Long Island, raised her sons, worked as a teacher's aide and a maid and was married for three years to a police officer, Bill Blunt.
Her father, Leo, was a lawyer, her mother, Rebecca, a teacher.
