
        Katharine Homer Fryer, an artist, teacher and writer who devoted much of her later life to the mentally disturbed, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital.
She also served stints as a piano teacher at the Manhattan School of Music in the 1930's, and more recently at the Brearley School.

        Pilar Barbosa de Rosario, a revered Puerto Rican historian and political authority who served as teacher, mentor and mother confessor to generations of Puerto Rican politicians, scholars and intellectuals, died on Wednesday at a hospital near her home in San Juan.
When she began teaching at the University of Puerto Rico in 1921 she was still an undergraduate herself, and the university was little more than a teacher's college.
During a life in which she was variously a French teacher in Wales, a secretary, a traveling saleswoman, an Olympic sailer, a competitive skier, a pioneer field hockey player, an actress, a sculptor's model and a movie stuntwoman, Ms. Maillart seemed most comfortable on the frontiers of social convention and  Western civilization.
From then on, if I had word from a teacher, a librarian, or a newspaper anywhere in the country that something was being banned, all I had to do was put this person in touch with Leanne, and I knew she would instantly respond and get them through this, let them know they were not alone.
''
        Recently, Ms. Blume said, Ms. Katz had been distressed about what seemed to be an increasing tendency not just to remove controversial books from use, but to dismiss the teacher or librarian who chose them.

        Marie Marchowsky, a modern-dance choreographer and teacher who was a leading member of Martha Graham's company in the 1930's, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
''
        A noted teacher of the Graham dance technique, Miss Marchowsky taught for many years in her own studio in New York and was also director of dance at Caltech in Pasadena, Calif.
        Ms. Marchowsky formed a small company in 1946 when she presented works with music by contemporary American composers.

        Nancy Claster, who entertained and educated a generation of children as Miss Nancy, the prototypical teacher on television's ''Romper Room,'' died on Friday at her home in Baltimore.
And its presiding spirit was Mrs. Claster, who was pressed into service by her husband as a substitute for an ailing teacher, two months after the live show went on the air in  Baltimore in February 1953.
Each broadcast ended with the Magic Mirror, a piece of glittery plastic through which the teacher ''saw'' children at home.
Hundreds of children submitted their names and hoped to hear them when the teacher said: ''Romper stomper bomper boo/Tell me, tell me, tell me do/Magic Mirror, tell me today/ Did all my friends have fun at play?/I see Donnie and Leslie and Peter and Rhonda.
But ever since a high school teacher who did not like her had praised her work and said she could become a writer, she had been writing stories and, as she later put it, gathering rejection slips.
Miss Schonberg attended that university and met Martha Hill, a dance teacher there who later founded such major institutions as the Bennington School of the Dance and the American Dance Festival.

        Anna Scarpova Youskevitch, a prominent ballet teacher and a former member of the Ballets Russes troupes of the 1930's and 40's, died on Thursday at the Broadview Health Facility in West Hartford, Conn. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan.
Dr. Piers, whose father was the composer Karl Weigl, trained as a kindergarten teacher in Vienna and received a doctorate at the University of Vienna.
If the very sight of her, a small woman standing in front of her class with her endless gray hair piled in ropes on top of her head like an ancient diadem, had not been enough to get their full attention, few of her students were likely to be daydreaming once Dr. Trell opened her mouth, got her arms moving and began expounding on the intricacies of Greek culture, literature and language with a passion few encountered in a teacher before or since.
She danced the Marilyn Miller part in ''The Great Ziegfeld'' and was cast as the new teacher, Miss Lawrence, in a series of ''Our Gang'' shorts, the best of which, ''Bored of Education,'' won an Oscar.
Beloved by audiences in a performing career that extended from the Imperial Russian Ballet of St. Petersburg to Sergei Diaghilev's Ballets Russes of the 1920's and the various Ballets Russes companies that succeeded it, Miss Danilova was also a noted teacher and for many years a faculty member of the School of American Ballet, the New York City Ballet's school.
''
        Miss Danilova was often in demand as a guest teacher around the country.

        Hallie Crawford Stillwell, who drove a covered wagon into Alpine, Tex., in 1910, worked as a teacher and then settled down and became a Big Bend legend as a sharp-shooting ranch wife on horseback, died on Monday at an Alpine hospital, two months and two days shy of her 100th birthday.

        Harriet Browne, a tap dancer, choreographer and teacher who performed with the Copasetics, died on Sept. 1 at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx.
She then became a teacher, mainly of geography and also of history and catechism, at St. Mary's High School, on the grounds of the Entally Convent outside Calcutta.
Miss Pepper also was a professor in the architecture department of the New York Institute of Technology, taught and lectured elsewhere and remained active as a teacher into her 80's.
As warm-hearted in person as she could be onstage, Miss Goslar was a popular teacher of mime and body movement for actors.

        Toby Lelyveld, a teacher of literature who specialized in the stage history of Shakespeare's plays, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Both Mr. Allison, an English teacher, and Ms. Hubert, a writer, did the cooking.
As a child, she studied ballet with a private teacher.
