
        Marilyn Costello, the principal harpist of the Philadelphia Orchestra for 46 years and a respected teacher at the Curtis Institute of Music, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Philadelphia.
She declined to settle for the future of a high school teacher, as other  girls with similar interests might have, or a lawyer, as her father wanted, she said.
She taught and wrote that a good teacher was a student with the world as the classroom.
Mary Catherine Raugust was born on Sept. 2, 1932, in Grand Forks, N. D., the daughter of a businessman and a former public-school teacher.
Her mother, Sarah Myers  Blackwell, was an elementary school teacher.
Although she set high standards for her students, Dr. Wakin, who was just as demanding of herself, was a popular teacher.

        Betty L. Santangelo, a retired teacher and school administrator who was long active in Italian-American and other civic affairs, died on March 15 at the home of a daughter in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 80 and formerly lived in the Bronx.
''
        Despite her star status -- and the tension that can cause -- Miss Ulanova was highly popular, eventually becoming a teacher to the greatest dancers -- including Yekaterina Maksimova, Nina Timofeyeva and the current Bolshoi director, Vladimir Vasilyev -- who followed her.
Although she set high standards for her students, Dr. Wakin, who was just as demanding of herself, was a popular teacher.
Ms. Lestor graduated from London University with a diploma in sociology and went to work as a nursery school teacher, opening a nursery school in her own home six years later.
But even after her cancer was diagnosed in 1992 and she began the long, painful ordeal of therapy, Miss Cisyk, who is also survived by her older sister, Maria, a concert pianist and teacher who lives in Ridgefield, Conn., continued to work, singing her last professional jingle just a few months ago.
The first day, according to family legend, when the teacher arranged a classic still life and told his students to go to work, Mrs. Spelce spent the first part of the class working in a tiny area at the center of the canvas until the teacher told her she was supposed to use the entire surface.
The first day, according to family legend, when the teacher arranged a classic still life and told his students to go to work, Mrs. Spelce spent the first part of the class working in a tiny area at the center of the canvas until the teacher told her she was supposed to use the entire surface.
Too ashamed to make a new start in public, Mrs. Spelce spent the rest of the class cleaning off her work, then took the canvas home, painted the still life from memory, took her work in the next day and sheepishly asked the teacher if that was what he had in mind.
The teacher was so thunderstruck by the painting and by his student's raw, unschooled talent that he blurted out that she was a primitive.
Sandra Jishu Holmes, a Zen Buddhist priest, teacher and co-founder of the Greyston Mandala, an organization in Yonkers dedicated to helping the poor, died on Feb. 20 at a hospital in Albuquerque, N.M. She was 57 and had moved last month to Santa Fe, N.M., from Yonkers.
Ms. Holmes and her husband, Roshi Bernard Tetsugen Glassman, a Zen teacher, founded a group of nonprofit and for-profit companies and gave it the name of the Buddhist and Hindu circle of life, the mandala.
She became a Zen priest in 1983 and, four years ago, a teacher.
Sandra Jishu Holmes, a Zen Buddhist priest and teacher and a co-founder of the Greyston Mandala in Yonkers, misstated the date of her death.

        Linda Schele, a onetime studio art teacher who made a fateful vacation visit to Mexico that turned her life upside down and helped revolutionize Mayan scholarship, died on Saturday at a hospital near her home in Austin, Tex.

        Maria Grandy, a ballet teacher and coach long associated with the Joffrey Ballet and the chairwoman of the Dance Notation Bureau, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
She was instrumental in starting the Contemporary Arts Center in Honolulu and was active as an exhibition juror, lecturer, curator and teacher there.
The idea of team nursing sprang from her doctoral dissertation, and in the decades afterward, the concept made her a mentor and teacher to generations of health professionals around the world.

        Frances B. Sonz, a retired painter and art teacher in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., died on April 12 at her home in Tiburon, Calif., where she had lived for 10 years.
She was one of many notable jazz musicians inestimably helped by the tutelage of Walter Dyett, a music teacher at DuSable High School, whose other students included Dinah Washington, Johnny Griffin, Gene Ammons and Von Freeman.

        Betsy Carden, a former dance teacher at Brooklyn College and a leader in American college dance, died on May 5 at her home in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 68.
Her principal teacher there was Leopold Auer, whose other students had included Mischa Elman and Jascha Heifetz.
One of her lodgers was a shy, intellectual school teacher named Tom Cookson, and as Dame Catherine later told it, it was close to love at first sight.

        Lois Mailou Jones, an American painter and an art teacher for almost a half century at Howard University in Washington, died at her home in Washington on Tuesday.
She was influential as a teacher, not only for her exacting standards and the encouragement she gave students, but as an example of persistence in a climate unfavorable to black and women artists.
If it was a father's stern will that forced her to become a home economics teacher, it was another man's inspired whim -- and a bit of luck -- that led her from the backwaters of education to the front burner of French cuisine.
While Miss Mathiot was still studying to be a teacher at the Paris Training School of Homemaking at the beginning of the Depression, Albin Michel, a portly French publisher, decided that a cook book emphasizing nutrition might help his ailing business, not to mention his waistline, by appealing to what he perceived as a broad public fascination with the developments of modern science, including advances in nutritional understanding.

        Elaine Aiken, a Method acting teacher, former member of the Actors Studio and a founder and director of Actors Conservatory in Manhattan, died on July 12 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
A teacher who worked with such actors as Harvey Keitel, Alec Baldwin, Shelley Winters and Brooke Shields, Ms. Aiken was known for her ability to allay a student's fears with her relaxation techniques.
She was a Strasberg protegee, said Ms. Lodge, who added that Strasberg counted her among the few people he considered able to carry on his work as a teacher.
Born of Italian-American parents in San Diego, she studied ballet in Los Angeles with Giovanni Rosi, an Italian teacher.
Yet he lamented that Enrico Cecchetti, Italy's most celebrated teacher, had just died.

        Corinne Greenberg Levin, an advocate for children and the director of the independent Teacher Center in New Haven since its founding 27 years ago, died on July 27 at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. A New Haven resident, she was 68.
A former teacher, Ms. Levin organized the center in 1971 to be governed entirely by teachers, beyond the sway of unions or district administrators.
She was active in the teacher center movement nationally, and her center in New Haven served as a model for others.
In the last few years, she also helped establish 13 similar teacher centers in Eastern Europe under the aegis of the Soros Foundation and the United States Information Agency.
She taught in public schools in Maine, Pennsylvania and Connecticut before opening the Teacher Center.
She remained an assistant professor, but her work as a teacher and consumer marketing specialist -- among other things turning out pamphlets and conducting radio and television programs stressing thrift -- was so impressive that when she retired in 1961, she was named professor emeritus.

        Juanita Kidd Stout, an Oklahoma music teacher turned Philadelphia lawyer who became the first black woman to serve as a judge in Pennsylvania, then spent the better part of 40 years as a judicial scourge of murder, mayhem and bad grammar, died on Friday at a hospital near her home in Philadelphia.
She was 79 and throughout a long pioneering legal career had been first and foremost an English teacher.
She might have grown up poor, but her parents were both teachers, and Judge Stout, who credited her mother with instilling her lifelong habit of hard work, learned to read at 3, entered the third grade at 6 and started college at 16, first at a black school in nearby Missouri and later at the University of Iowa before returning to Oklahoma as a music teacher.
Whether conducting a board meeting or entertaining at a reception, she wore a version of the same understated habit, a simple blue dress, she had worn as an elementary school teacher.
''It's really very funny because I never play teacher.
Miss Mitchell, who received a master's in English from the University of Edinburgh, trained to be a teacher, spent five years teaching at an Edinburgh girls school, then came to the United States in 1936 as a postgraduate fellow at Smith College.
Dr. Harrison received 20 honorary degrees and won awards from the American Chemical Society in 1977 and 1982 for her contributions as a teacher.

        Annabelle Irwin, a retired Iowa State English professor who drew on her experience as a high school teacher in collaborating on an acclaimed series of books for young teen-agers, died Sept. 13 at a daughter's home in Des Moines.
Her father was an electrical technician and her mother was a teacher.

        Nancy Topf, a choreographer, dancer and teacher, died last Wednesday in the crash of Swissair Flight 111 off Nova Scotia.
Ms. Topf had a private practice in New York and was also an internationally known teacher.

        Georgianna Morris Crowther Kappes, a longtime teacher of history in private schools, died on Oct. 17 at Greenwich Hospital.
They moved to Furth, where he was a teacher, and within the year their first son, Heinz Alfred, was born.

        Nina Youshkevitch, a Russian-born American ballerina who was a leading dancer in Bronislava Nijinska's ballets and a longtime ballet teacher in New York, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital.
She took acting classes and eventually, in 1978, won a Drama Desk Award for her performance as the teacher in the original Broadway production of ''Working,'' which was adapted from Studs Terkel's book.
On her retirement from dancing, she became a popular teacher and dancers' coach, working in public onstage in Maina Gielgud's ''Steps, Notes and Squeaks'' in 1978 and 1980.
She exploited the skills of a research chemist, a merchant and a teacher to achieve eminence in three careers over the course of 50 years.
