''
        Ms. Leff was born on Aug. 4, 1939, in the Parkchester section of the Bronx, to Frank Leff, who worked for the American Jewish Committee, and Johanna Leff, a teacher in the New York City school system.
Intending to become a history teacher, she attended Western Reserve University (now Case Western Reserve) but was forced to drop out in her freshman year because of the Depression.
She played leading parts in high school plays, but a teacher told her to stick with typing.
Another teacher helped her get a scholarship to the Wharf Theater in Provincetown, Mass., the summer of her junior year.
Her mother, who had been a governess in St. Petersburg, Russia, before marrying an army officer, was her first piano teacher, and sent her to school in a convent in Liège, Belgium, when she was 6, setting the tone for a nomadic and international life.
Intending to become a writer, she attended Barnard College in 1937-38, but dropped out after a creative-writing teacher told her she had no talent.
Dalia Messick, born in South Bend, Ind., spent two years in the third grade and two years in the eighth grade and did not get her high school diploma until she was 20, and then only at the urging of her parents, Cephas Messick, a sign painter and vocational arts teacher, and Bertha Messick, a milliner; her work inspired some of Brenda's fetching hats.
Yet Ms. Struchkova's main teacher at the Bolshoi school was Yelizaveta Gerdt, the epitome of refined classical style.
While rehearsing for her role as the young Helen Keller's teacher in ''The Miracle Worker,'' she put tape over her eyes better to understand what it was like to be blind, learned sign language and spent time at a home for the visually impaired.
''
        Ms. May carved out a highly acclaimed reputation as a teacher at the Royal Ballet school from 1954 to 1977.

        Grete Sultan, a pianist and teacher who was both a performer of Bach and Schubert and a mentor to John Cage and his contemporaries, died in her sleep at St. Vincent's Hospital last Sunday morning.
But a more important mentor was the pianist and conductor Edwin Fischer, teacher of Alfred Brendel, Paul Badura-Skoda and Daniel Barenboim, with whom she began private lessons after graduation.
At 19 she dropped out of the City College of New York to marry Robert Rossner, a teacher and writer whose name she kept after their divorce in 1972.
She later attended a boarding school in the Shfeya Youth Village, studied music and trained to be a kindergarten teacher.
Although the McCauleys were farmers, Mr. McCauley also worked as a carpenter and Mrs. McCauley as a teacher.

        Constance Keene, a pianist and teacher whose recordings of the Romantic keyboard repertory were highly regarded, died on Dec. 24 at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Ms. Keene maintained a fairly low-key performing career in recent years, but her influence as a teacher and occasional writer on keyboard topics for Clavier magazine was considerable.
'' When Rubinstein decided that his children were old enough to take piano lessons, he hired Ms. Keene as their teacher.

        Selma Jeanne Cohen, a historian, editor and teacher who devoted her career to proclaiming dance an art worthy of the same scholarly respect traditionally awarded to painting, music and literature, died on Friday at her home in Greenwich Village.
When a childhood friend started taking ballet lessons from Edna McRae, a respected Chicago teacher, Ms. Cohen went along.
She began teaching English at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1946 and, at the same time, worked with the Los Angeles teacher and choreographer Eugene Loring.
Ms. Cohen, a tiny soft-spoken woman, could be a rigorous teacher, but she delighted in presiding graciously over social events.
