After her release she studied Chinese literature and worked as a roving writer, editor and teacher.
Her early works, with their expressive dissonance, inventive counterpoint and sharp rhythmic edges, reflect both the influence of her teacher, Roger Sessions, and the practical demands of writing for modern dance groups.
Miss Sokolow often returned to Israel as teacher and choreographer.

        Ingrid G. Brainard, a dance historian and teacher of historical dance, died on Feb. 18 at her home in West Newton, Mass.
Developed from her story ''The Terrible Miss Dove,'' first published in Ladies' Home Journal, the work chronicled the life of a strict but beloved geography teacher in a small American town whose sudden illness shocks the community.
from Barnard and a master's from Teacher's College at Columbia.
She attended Boston College at night, and then, for 39 years, was a gym and health teacher in the Boston public school system.

        Ann Roe Robbins, a teacher of cooking who, along with James A.
I still think it the best teacher.

        Brenda Reilly, a teacher, sports administrator and three-sport coach in a career of almost three decades at Central Connecticut State University in New Britain, died of cancer at a hospice in Branford, Conn., on Aug. 5.
The next year, she came to Central Connecticut as a physical education teacher and a basketball, softball and volleyball coach.

        Ethel Brown Fitzgerald, a former New York City teacher and school administrator, lawyer and musician, died July 19 at a hospital in upstate Amsterdam.
In his late teens, Mr. Hall emigrated to Ontario, where he worked as a missionary, teacher and midwife among the Ojibwa Indians, according to his book about his experiences, ''Me Papoose Sitter'' (Crowell, 1955).
Her husband, Leon Russianoff, a noted clarinetist and teacher, died in 1990.

        Jeanne Lee, one of the great jazz singers in the avant-garde tradition and a teacher of singing, composition and movement, died on Wednesday in Tijuana, Mexico.
''
        To her colleagues in Room 9, Ms. Logan was a teacher and inspiration.
She was regarded as a grande dame of America's black writers and an honored member of the literary elite, a sought-after teacher, a poet who was valued for her sensitive portraits of black women, her precise use of language and the universality of her work.
Ignoring those who urged her to become a teacher, she enrolled in pre-law courses at Columbia University.
She was regarded as a grande dame of America's black writers and an honored member of the literary elite, a sought-after teacher and a poet who was valued for her sensitive portraits of black women, her precise use of language and the universality of her work.
