
        Natalya Dudinskaya, who wielded major influence over the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad as its leading ballerina in the 1940's and 50's and as a revered teacher and the wife of its onetime artistic director, Konstantin Sergeyev, died on Wednesday in St. Petersburg.
Ms. Dudinskaya, a favorite pupil of the celebrated teacher Agrippina Vaganova, retired from dancing in 1962 and became internationally known as a teacher and authority on the 19th-century classics.
Ms. Dudinskaya, a favorite pupil of the celebrated teacher Agrippina Vaganova, retired from dancing in 1962 and became internationally known as a teacher and authority on the 19th-century classics.

        Rose Augustine, a former chemistry teacher who with her husband revolutionized the world of the classical guitar by developing the nylon guitar string and who commissioned new works and underwrote concert series and competitions, died on April 21 in Manhattan.
She became a high school science teacher but went into the string business after World War II when her husband, a guitar maker, found that the gut strings traditionally used for the guitar's three treble strings were in short supply.
They had two sons, Jonathan, a philosophy teacher, who died in 1989, and the composer Peter Liberson, also of Santa Fe.
She was also an English and speech teacher.
She received a scholarship to the Juilliard School of Music in 1950, although she had to work as an accompanist for singers and as a piano teacher to help support herself.
At her death, Ms. Belle was working on a documentary on Stanley Williams, a teacher at the New York City Ballet-affiliated School of American Ballet, and had an option to film the book ''Passionate Nomad'' by Jane Fletcher Geniesse, a biography of the explorer Freya Stark.
When they returned to Cambodia, Khieu Ponnary became a widely respected high school teacher, helping to support her husband as he began organizing for the revolution.
''I wanted to be a mother, a teacher and a housewife,'' she told The New York Times.
Her first teacher was Sophia Brilliant-Liven, a Russian pianist who had been a teaching assistant to Anton Rubinstein.

        Anne Rogovin, a teacher of mentally handicapped children who wrote manuals on child rearing with admonitions like ''Turn off the TV!
Mrs. Rogovin's years as a teacher made her a believer in letting a child learn by doing, whether it led to things made or knowledge acquired.
Correction:  July 24, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Sunday about Anne Rogovin, a teacher of mentally handicapped children and an author of manuals on child rearing, misstated the current name of her alma mater, which was once the State College for Teachers at Buffalo.

        Nina Fonaroff, an early Martha Graham dancer and a choreographer and teacher, died on Aug. 14 at a hospital in London, where she lived.
''
        Ms. Fonaroff was also a respected teacher at her own studio and at colleges, including Bennington College and at Teachers College at Columbia University.
A glamorous and vibrant teacher, her students included the choreographer Kim Brandstrup and the filmmaker Sally Potter.

        Charlotte Selver, a teacher of sensory awareness who helped inspire the school of psychology that came to be known as the human potential movement, died on Aug. 22 at her home in Muir Beach, Calif., near San Francisco.
Ms. Mara founded the nonprofit Thalia Mara Arts International Foundation, which sponsored teacher training scholarships, a piano competition and performances in Jackson by dance companies and musicians.
''
        She asked him whether he knew a good piano teacher.
She graduated from Wheelock Teacher's College in Boston in 1938 and received an education degree from Boston University in 1952 and a law degree from there in 1955.

        Dorothy J. Farnan, a high school English teacher whose friendship with the poet W. H. Auden and his companion, Chester Kallman, enabled her to write ''Auden in Love,'' a book about their life together, died on Oct. 23 in her Manhattan apartment.
Ms. Farnan bridged the worlds of the flamboyantly bohemian Greenwich Village of the 1940's and the conventional milieu of her job as an English teacher at Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn.
''
        In her book, Ms. Farnan mentioned that she was only heeding Auden's advice: ''They don't need a paid teacher to learn to read Hemingway,'' he had told her.
Correction:  November 17, 2003, Monday  An obituary on Nov. 2 about Dorothy Farnan, a New York City teacher who wrote ''Auden in Love,'' a book about W. H. Auden and his companion, Chester Kallman, misstated the year in which she became chairman of the English department at Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn.
In addition to her husband, a teacher of mathematics and the history of science whom she married in 1958, Mrs.
