
        Mary Louise Gale Hafford, a violinist, conductor and music teacher, died on Friday at Waterview Hills Nursing Center in Purdy's, N.Y. She was 89 years old.
While attending Hunter College, she became one of the first recipients of a Hebrew teacher's certificate from the Teachers Institute of the Jewish Theological Seminary.
Growing up in the cotton mill town of Schoolfield, Va., she accompanied her mother, a teacher, as she went door-to-door collecting $100 to start a school library.
High School English Teacher
        In the 1920's and 1930's she worked as a high school English teacher and librarian in Danville and served as technical director of a Federal Works Project Administration library program for Virginia.
High School English Teacher
        In the 1920's and 1930's she worked as a high school English teacher and librarian in Danville and served as technical director of a Federal Works Project Administration library program for Virginia.
A tiny woman with a robust sense of humor, she established a reputation as a tough but loyal and influential teacher.

        Dorothy Uris, a Broadway and Hollywood actress and voice teacher known professionally as Dorothy Tree, died yesterday at the Actor's Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 85 years old.

        Ronnie Paris, a playwright, novelist and teacher, died on Feb. 4 at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 67 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Bearsville, N.Y.
        She died of an aneurysm, said her son Peter Stein of New Haven.

        Catherine Wolkonsky, a French and Russian teacher for 50 years and founding chairman of the Slavic Department at the State University of New York at Albany, died on Thursday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 96 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y.
        She died after a brief illness, her family said.
She was also a teacher and traveled around the country giving workshops in ceramics.

        Mary Ann Herman, a leading folk-dance teacher and an authority on folk-dance traditions, died on Monday at her home in North Babylon, L.I.
In recent years, Mrs. Herman remained active as a teacher, using her home as headquarters, and she taught every summer at Folk Dance Camp, in Bridgton, Me.
Dr. Levine devoted her career to the problems of people with impaired hearing as an advocate, author, teacher, researcher, clinician and trainer of other professionals.
Dr. Levine, who was not deaf, was born in New York City and got started in the field after she trained as a teacher at the Lexington School for the Deaf in Manhattan.

        Dr. Rosa Lee Nemir Audi, a pulmonary and pediatrics specialist who worked 60 years as a doctor, teacher and researcher, died on Monday at Tisch Hospital at New York University in Manhattan.
As teacher and journalist, Miss Joel helped to increase appreciation of dance as an art and to raise standards of dance writing and training.

        Maria Alba, a noted flamenco dancer and popular teacher in New York City, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
Mrs. Simonson, a native of Brooklyn and a graduate of the Columbia University teacher training program, taught sixth grade at Public School 61 in the Bronx for most of her 35-year teaching career.

        Pola Nirenska, a noted teacher and choreographer who danced with Mary Wigman, died on Saturday after a fall from the balcony of her apartment in Bethesda, Md.
Miss Nirenska was a major force in dance in Washington, as a teacher, as director of a company whose dancers included Liz Lerman and Sharon Wyrrick (later choreographers in their own right), and as a creator of impressively fashioned dances filled with often raw emotion.
She then embarked on a career as a solo dancer, teacher and choreographer, working in Warsaw, Vienna and Italy.
She moved to Washington in 1951 and established a career there as a teacher at local ballet and modern-dance schools and at her own studio, and as a highly regarded choreographer with a company of her own.
)
        "The nightclub floor is such an incredible teacher," she said in 1963.
Belquis Abdur Raheem, a teacher at an Islamic elementary school, brought seven of her pupils to the funeral.
On the stage she was a gangster's moll in "Three Men on a Horse" (1935), an inquisitive photographer in "The Philadelphia Story" (1939), a caustic writer in "My Sister Eileen" (1940), an anti-fascist teacher in "Tomorrow the World" (1943) and an exuberant gossip columnist in "Hollywood Pinafore" (1945).

        Louise Zemlinsky, a portraitist and voice teacher, died on Oct. 19 at the Isabella House nursing home in Manhattan.
Her mother was an organist and music teacher.
When she had made some progress and wanted more frequent lessons than she could afford, she agreed to work for her teacher, Louis Darnay, as both secretary and maid in exchange for lessons.
Hadassah was also a popular teacher, known for her great warmth, who taught Israeli and Indian dance across the United States and abroad.
Dr. Bryan started teaching part time at Sarah Lawrence College and Pratt Institute in the 1930's, and joined Columbia's Library School in 1939 as a psychologist and teacher.

        Ilse Sass, a pianist and voice teacher, died on Wednesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
She also appeared as a piano teacher in the movie "Fame.
The theories of Emile Jaques-Dalcroze, a Swiss composer and teacher who helped his music and dance students develop a sense of rhythm by translating sounds into movement, had at that point influenced a generation of German modern dancers, of whom the best known was Wigman.
She remained a leading Wigman teacher and dancer for 10 years, creating roles in "Feier" and "Totenmal," which she helped Wigman choreograph.

        Allene Z. Roach, a journalist and teacher whose struggle with Alzheimer's disease was described in a 1985 book by one of her daughters, died on Friday at the Fairfield Division of the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale, the Bronx.

        Norma K. Regan, a high school teacher and sculptor, died on Tuesday in a convalescent home in West Hartford, Conn. She was 95 years old and had been a longtime resident of Hartford.

        Rebecca Grand, a former teacher and assistant principal in New York City public schools, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
During a 35-year career from 1937 to 1972, Miss Grand was a history teacher, guidance department chairman and an assistant principal of Samuel J. Tilden High School in Brooklyn.

        Stella Adler, an exponent of Method acting whom many considered the leading American teacher of her craft, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles.
"
        Miss Adler counseled: "The teacher has to inspire, to agitate.
Miss Andrews, who was born in Bury St. Edmunds, England, on April 19, 1898, specialized in linocuts, a printing method popularized between the wars in England by the artist Claude Flight, who was her teacher at the Grosvenor School.
