
        Adele Marcus, teacher to two generations of outstanding pianists, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
In scores of case studies she observed and documented as a nurse, midwife and teacher, she examined how mothers use a variety of senses -- sight, smell and touch -- to become familiar with their newborns.
Mrs. Moore, an expert on Konstantin Stanislavsky, directed plays Off Broadway and was a writer and teacher.

        Beatrice Lees, an innovative teacher of improvisational dance movement, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
After graduating from Skowhegan High School in 1916, she held jobs for which a college education was not always required: telephone operator, circulation manager for a weekly newspaper, grade-school teacher and eventually a woolen mill executive.
Later, she was a teacher at the New School for Social Research.

        Angiola E. Sartorio, a dancer, teacher and choreographer who worked with Kurt Jooss in the 1930's, died on May 26 at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 91.
She was trained as a teacher and became the director of social services in the republic's army, an adviser to the Prime Minister on women's issues and a campaigner on behalf of homeless children in Bangui, the republic's capital.

        Johana Harris, a pianist, composer and teacher and the widow of the composer Roy Harris, died on June 5 at her home in Los Angeles.
At Shady Hill School in Cambridge, the young woman explored her passion for poetry, and then fell into difficulty at high school because she objected to a teacher's statement that Ibsen was immoral.

        Alice V. Keliher, whose experiences as a lightly trained teacher of ill-prepared first graders led her to become a renowned expert on early childhood education and a champion of giving children unreserved respect and affection, died on Tuesday at the Tucson Medical Center in Arizona.
"
        A native of Washington who received her teacher's certificate after two years of training, Miss Keliher was only 20 when she became a teacher in 1923.
"
        A native of Washington who received her teacher's certificate after two years of training, Miss Keliher was only 20 when she became a teacher in 1923.
She spent seven years teaching at a junior college in New Jersey before she joined the Iowa State faculty to teach creative writing in 1969, a year before Mrs. Irwin, a former elementary school teacher, arrived.
It was a theory that Mrs. Wood began to develop during the late 1940's and early 1950's, when she was a teacher and girls' counselor at Jordan High School in Salt Lake City.
"
        She graduated from St. Augustine's in 1911 and worked as a teacher in North Carolina and Georgia to earn the money she needed to continue her education.
Like her sister Sarah, the first black home economics teacher in a New York City high school, she never married or had children.
Her eighth-grade teacher, Modria Caraway.
Her high school drama teacher, Vernell Lillie.
Her kindergarten teacher, Ida Mae Henderson, would like to be there, but at age 85, she is not strong enough to make the trip alone from Grapeland, Tex.
"
        At school, Ms. Graves's singing was encouraged by a strong-willed music teacher, Judith Grove.
After high school, Ms. Graves made great progress under Helen Hodam, a renowned voice teacher, first at Oberlin Conservatory, and then at the New England Conservatory.

        Frances Cole, a dance teacher whose students included Ruby Keeler and Bob Fosse, died on Oct. 10 at the Actors' Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 94.
Miss Cole, who was born in Greenville, Ohio, was sent to Cincinnati by her father, a ballroom-dance teacher, to study dance so she could help him with his  studio.
An honors graduate of Langston, a state-run black college, she had been  recruited by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to test the state's harsh segregation laws, which, among other things, imposed a fine on any teacher who taught a mixed-race class.

        Lillian Fuchs, a renowned violist, composer, teacher and keeper of musical tradition, died yesterday morning at the Actors Fund Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 91.
"
        Ms. Fuchs was an important teacher of chamber performance as well as of the viola.
Correction:  October 10, 1995, Tuesday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about the violist and teacher Lillian Fuchs misstated the day of her death.
Miss Young, a longtime New School writing teacher who began her literary career as an award-winning poet and ended it as a critic, essayist and biographer, was a respected literary figure and cherished Greenwich Village eccentric well before Scribners published her one and only novel, "Miss MacIntosh, My Darling," in 1965.
She then entered the  Vienna Conservatory as one of the first women to study violin there; her teacher was Otakar Sevcik, who also taught the conductor Jan Kubelik.

        Mary Bruce, a teacher to generations of young tap dancers in New York and Chicago, died on Tuesday at Goldwater Memorial Hospital on Roosevelt Island in New York City.
She organized several companies and continued to be a guest teacher at studios around the world until shortly before her death.

        Heida Hermanns, a pianist, teacher and philanthropist, died on Wednesday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 89.
Mrs. Fogelson, who was born in the Bronx, worked as a health-education teacher and stockbroker.
Both Senator Kennedy and Mrs. Shriver called their mother "our greatest teacher.

        Nina Tikanova, a ballet teacher who had danced in the companies of Bronislava Nijinska, Ida Rubinstein and Boris Romanov, died on Wednesday at her home in Paris.

        Uta Graf, a German-born soprano and teacher, died on Friday at the Nathaniel Witherill nursing home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 80 and had lived mainly in New York City after coming to the United States in 1948.
After graduating, she studied piano in Paris with the pianist and teacher Alfred Cortot.
Mrs. Cowell was also a teacher and writer.
Dr. Sadker was the author or co-author of six books and scores of articles on sexism, teacher education and children's books.
As a teacher, she also promoted the innovative use of computers in physics education and helped to develop computerized quizzes for elementary physics courses.
And she had experience as a teacher at the University of Kansas and at Douglass College, in New Brunswick, N.J.
Yet if there had not been a war on in 1944, and if Princeton had not found itself without a single Russian teacher at a time when there was a sudden, almost panicky upsurge in interest in the Soviet Union, it is doubtful that the university would have allowed the former Ludmilla Buketoff of New Britain, Conn., to be more than a faculty wife, the bride of John Turkevich, a professor of chemistry.

        Litia Namoura, a dancer and teacher, died on April 11 at her home in Brooklyn.

        Marion Burbank Stevens Rice, a noted teacher and producer of dance by the pioneering modern dancers Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, died on April 12 at the Highlands Long Term Care Center in Fitchburg, Mass.. She was 90 and lived in Ashby, Mass.

        Bonnie Bird, a Martha Graham dancer in the 1930's and an internationally known teacher, died on Sunday at her home in Tiburon, Calif. She was 80.
"
        Miss Bird was best known, however, as an imaginative, practical teacher of dance who believed strongly that dancers must not only be trained in their craft but must also be aware of and a part of the world around them.
