She played her share of drinkers --  like the spinster teacher in ''Picnic'' in 1953 and the alcoholic mother whose son drowns in ''The Bad Seed'' in 1955, both on Broadway.
Having grown up in Columbia, S.C. -- her father a minister in the A.M.E. Church, her mother  a teacher -- she had graduated from Wilberforce University in Ohio and was studying for a master's degree at Ohio State when she joined the  Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, the forerunner of the Wacs, in 1942.
She founded it with Dr. Franklyn Mansfield Branley, a science writer and teacher, as an introduction to a wide range of scientific subjects, attractively put together with pictures and plainly written texts.

        Beatrice Seckler, a lead dancer with Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman in the 1930's and early 40's and a longtime teacher of the Humphrey-Weidman modern-dance technique, died on Dec. 28 at the Actors' Fund Residence in Englewood, N.J. She was 91.
She was a leading teacher of the Humphrey-Weidman technique at the New Dance Group for many years, starting in 1948.
''She made everything seem simple and clear, which made her a great teacher and an unrivaled lecturer.

        Suzanne Bloch, a musician and teacher who spurred interest in early music through her performances on the lute and other instruments, and who promoted the music of her father, Ernest Bloch, died on Jan. 29 in Manhattan, where she lived.
Her godfather was Bill Robinson, the tap dancer known as Bojangles, and her music teacher was the jazz pianist and composer Eubie Blake.
She studied psychology and pedagogy at the University of Munich and received a teacher's certificate in 1934.
For more than 20 years she worked largely in Galamian's shadow, but in the 1970's she became a sought-after teacher in her own right, and became the first woman -- and the first American-born violnist -- to be regarded as a master violin teacher in the tradition of Galamian and Leopold Auer.
For more than 20 years she worked largely in Galamian's shadow, but in the 1970's she became a sought-after teacher in her own right, and became the first woman -- and the first American-born violnist -- to be regarded as a master violin teacher in the tradition of Galamian and Leopold Auer.
Her teacher was Galamian; two years later she became his assistant, both at Juilliard and at the summer camp he had established in 1944, Meadowmount.

        Lakshmi Knight, a dancer and teacher of Indian classical dance who performed widely in the United States in the style specifically associated with her mother, the great dancer Balasaraswati, died in Chennai, India, on Dec. 23.
Set in Maine, the book focuses on the friendship of a fatherless teenager and a reclusive, disfigured teacher who tutors him for the entrance exam to a private school where he hopes to escape from a troubled home life; it is implied that he has a homosexual encounter with his mentor.
Her daughter said her mother returned to the religion of her early childhood, Roman Catholicism, in her 40's, partly as a result of interviewing Dorothy Day of the Catholic Worker movement and partly because she hoped to meet in heaven the high school English teacher who had first appreciated her writing.
      
Helen Levitov Sobell was born in Washington and trained as a teacher at Wilson Teachers College in Washington.
When he learned that her husband was to be transferred to China, he trained her to be a yoga teacher.
Ms. Félix made films in Mexico, Spain, Italy, France and Argentina, portraying figures like a belly dancer, a brothel keeper, a teacher, a soldier, a cabaret singer and a man-eating Roman empress.
After she retired, she joined the board of the New Jersey Pro Arte Chorale and was a voice teacher.
Mrs. Hillman, who was a pianist and piano teacher early in her career, taught adults cooking in the school system of Great Neck, N.Y., for 29 years as well as in Vermont and elsewhere.
Ruth Udstad was born in 1927 to an insurance salesman and a kindergarten teacher.

        Pauline Tish, a modern-dance teacher who studied and performed with some of the pioneers of American modern dance, died on April 1 in Manhattan.
At the time, conventional wisdom regarding reading disabilities was that a child's difficulties were rooted in emotional problems, and that not much could be done by the teacher until the problems were addressed.
Her survivors include a daughter, Katherine Linehan, a professor of English at Oberlin College; two sons, Stephen Bailey, associate dean and professor of history at Knox College, and Thomas Bailey, a teacher in Hellenbaek, Denmark; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
''
        She was also a teacher.
Barbara Scott was born July 6, 1924, in Washington, the daughter of a real estate broker and a chemistry teacher.
The teacher who escorted Faye to the principal's office declared, ''From now on, you're going to have to play kickball with the boys.

        Meredith Baylis, a prominent teacher at the Joffrey Ballet School in New York for 15 years and a former member of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, died on July 26 in Burbank, Calif. She was 72 and lived in Los Angeles.
The two of them, along with the teacher, Anna Austin, formed a professional trio that performed at the Rainbow Room in 1938.
Kenneth Leib, president of the General Slocum Memorial Association, said that only one General Slocum survivor remains alive: Adella Wotherspoon, 98, a retired teacher in Watchung, N.J.
        ''I'm sorry, of course,'' Mrs. Wotherspoon said in a phone interview.
As a researcher, author and teacher, Dr. Southern documented the history and scope of African-American contributions to American music.
''
        In 1960 she married Robert Simpson, a banker and teacher, and accompanied him to Paris.

        Antonia Stone, a prep-school mathematics teacher who left the classroom after 20 years of teaching and devoted herself to instructing the poor and the imprisoned about the importance of personal computers, died on Thursday at her home in Watertown, Mass.
Her husband, Bill Fulbrecht, is an artist and kindergarten teacher at Public School 321 in Park Slope.
Mrs. Fremantle was known in this country and in Britain as a writer and teacher as well as a scholar and Catholic convert.
Mrs. Hancock, born Margaret Morris in Washington and trained as a teacher, married a black minister and became a dedicated ''voluntary Negro.

        Mieke van Hoek, a Dutch-born modern-dance choreographer and teacher, died on Nov. 13 in Manhattan.
