Le Clercq became a teacher at Dance Theater of Harlem, wrote two books and frequently attended dance performances.

        Beverley Peck Johnson, a noted voice teacher and a member of the faculty at the Juilliard School of Music since 1964, died on Saturday in Manhattan.
Ms. Johnson was a highly trusted and notably successful voice teacher, as the long list of eminent singers who studied with her bears out.

        A tribute to Beverley Peck Johnson, a voice teacher and faculty member at the Juilliard School of Music, will take place on Monday at 5 p.m. at the Juilliard Theater, 155 West 65th Street, Manhattan.
In addition to performing, Ms. Lawrence was an influential teacher at the Manhattan School of Music, and in master classes.
Mrs. Buck was born Gussie Rubin on June 15, 1907, in Hurleyville, N.Y., in the Catskills and attended a one-room school, where the teacher demanded, ''What kind of name is Gussie?
'' According to her grandson Michael Halio, the teacher then said, ''I'm going to call you Katherine.
Her mother, Nettie Cox Ransom, was a teacher.
With the outbreak of World War II, Ms. Arova's British piano teacher in Paris urged her to escape France.
Disguised in male attire as the teacher's son, Ms. Arova was smuggled into England on a fishing boat in 1940.
'' She had continued to work as a teacher and coach until her death.
''
        When her death was announced by the Royal Ballet, Sir Anthony Dowell, the company's director, offered a tribute to Madam, as Dame Ninette was known to generations of dancers: ''Through her achievements she will remain a source of inspiration and encouragement as she has been throughout her life to so many of us as dancer, choreographer, director, teacher and mentor.
She spent a year at the University of Washington before joining her mother, who was a singing teacher in Hollywood.
''
        Throughout her life, Ms. Straight was also a producer and teacher.
Although she worked primarily as a teacher, Mrs. Krakauer performed as a member of the Alaria Chamber Ensemble and other groups, and in 1988, when she was 57, she presented a New York debut recital at Town Hall.
After that she went to her husband's teacher, Redvers Llewellyn, and began to get important roles at Sadler's Wells, including Senta in ''The Flying Dutchman'' in 1964, her first Wagner.
In a long career as a researcher, teacher and writer, Dr. Jahoda, known as Mitzi, examined social issues in the field well beyond the realm of dry statistics, and in her classes emphasized a humanistic approach and adherence to scientific rigor in social research.
She worked as a researcher and teacher at the University of Sussex from 1965.

        Judith Moses, a television news producer and teacher who also worked to expose the abuses confronted by journalists working on dangerous assignments abroad, died at home in Manhattan on Saturday.
During the Nazi siege of Leningrad in World War II, when she was working in a factory and also training to become a teacher, her first husband, Georgi Arapovsky, and her mother-in-law starved to death.
''She is a teacher, yes, but she is also a very genuine friend of the tots who sit entranced before the receivers.

        Laura Foreman, the director of dance at the New School University and a visual artist, writer and teacher, died on June 15 in Manhattan.
Among the latter was ''Prudence Crandall'' (Aladdin, 1955), about a teacher who defied Connecticut law in 1833 when she opened a private girls' school that accepted black and white pupils as equals.

        Jane Dudley, a prominent dancer in Martha Graham's company in the 1930's and 40's who was also one of early modern dance's social-protest choreographers and a leading teacher in the United States and Britain, died on Wednesday in London.
Later her students in London and at the New Dance Group knew her to be a exacting and uncompromising teacher.
Barbara Kay Bracher Olson was born on Dec. 27, 1955, in Houston, and trained to be a teacher at the University of St. Thomas in her hometown.
In 1929, Mrs. Rawson helped establish the School in Rose Valley, a private school near Philadelphia, and was a librarian, psychologist and teacher until 1947.
She trained as an art teacher, and in 1940 married Ernest Whitehouse, an engineer, who died last year.

        Mercedes Matter, a painter, teacher and the chief founder of the New York Studio School in Greenwich Village, died on Tuesday.
