Ms. Keller was a teacher and lecturer at the University of Rhode Island, the San Francisco Art Institute and other institutions.
Mrs. Saunders started her career as a teacher and an assistant principal and then worked as principal at Junior High School 220 in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn.
She served as its principal from 1963 until 1982, when she became a full-time professor in administration and teacher education at the graduate school.

        Lynn Solotaroff, a translator from Russian and a teacher, died on Monday at the Jewish Home & Hospital in New York.
She started working as a high school Latin and English teacher in Massachusetts, and came to New York as an instructor at New York University.
She was also a teacher and superintendent in the Sunday school of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church for 25 years.
She was preparing for a musical career when a classics teacher fired her interest in archeology.

        Aida Anthony Whedon, an artist and a teacher to generations of children, died yesterday at her home in Port Washington, L.I.
She was a supervising and training analyst there, as well as a teacher.
An elegant woman of stately demeanor, Ms. Goya was much in demand as a teacher and at her death was preparing to teach in Spain with her husband, who survives.
Before her involvement in health care, Sister Lawlor was a teacher and administrator at Catholic schools in Albany and Troy.
"And in America, she continued in her role as a prophet, teacher and innovative weaver.
"  A Reluctant Weaver
        Mrs. Albers was the last surviving teacher at the Bauhaus, the German design school founded at Weimar in 1919, and closed by the Nazis in 1933.

        Edith K. Bergtraum, a teacher at Public School 143 in Corona, Queens, for 25 years, died on Sunday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.

        Jeannette Walters, a soprano, teacher and vocal coach, died on June 1 at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Queens.

        Nina Stroganova, a Danish-born ballerina who was a founding member of American Ballet Theater and who became a noted dance teacher in New York City, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
Demanding Teacher
        Miss Stroganova, an effervescent, birdlike woman, taught at several New York schools; in recent years, she had her own studio in the City Center building.
She was known as a demanding and keenly observant teacher.
Miss Stroganova's marriage to Vladimir Dokoudovsky, also a ballet teacher, ended in divorce.
She took a job as a substitute teacher during the Depression, then in the mid-1930's became the Department of Parks director of recreation for Queens.

        Sylvia S. Goldstein, a teacher and administrator in New York City public schools for almost half a century, died on Saturday in the Sarah Neuman Nursing Home in Mamaroneck.
The poet and teacher Myra Cohn Livingston wrote of Ms. Worth's work in The New York Times Book Review in 1988, "The treasures Ms. Worth offers do not lie in some distant, golden land but in the everyday world.

        Rildia Bee O'Bryan Cliburn, the mother of Van Cliburn and his only piano teacher until he was 17, died yesterday at All Saints Episcopal Hospital in Fort Worth.
Beginning in 1962 as an elementary school teacher in a St. Louis parochial school, she was soon lecturing widely at workshops and retreats in the United States and abroad.

        Elizabeth S. Freidus, an innovative teacher of children with learning disabilities who included parents and educators in her instruction, died on Oct. 13 in a nursing home in Burlington, Vt. She was 88 and had lived in New York City.
Moving back to the Seattle area, she became an assistant to her sister Dorothy, a teacher and choreographer, who died in 1988.
She was born Mary Gindhart in 1907 in West Collingswood, N.J., the daughter of Isaac D. Gindhart Jr., a telephone company executive, and Mary Simon Gindhart, a music teacher.

        Pearl Primus, a pioneering dancer, choreographer and teacher whose anthropological work exposed Americans to the realities of black life in America and to the richness of African and Caribbean dance, died on Saturday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 74.

        Viola Spolin, who as a teacher and author was an inspiration for the improvisational theater movement, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles.
Although she did not have a career as a professional director, her guidance as a vital and highly demonstrative teacher was to indispensable as actors increasingly responded to the idea of improv.

        Dr. Judith Krieger Gardner, a child psychologist, teacher and researcher at Brandeis University, died of an aneurysm on Saturday at the Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem.

        Anita Zahn, a longtime teacher of the technique and dances of Isadora Duncan and her sister Elizabeth Duncan, died on Nov. 3 at her home in Grants Pass, Ore. She was 91.
Mrs. Glaser, a former teacher, was infected with the human immunodeficiency virus when she was nine months pregnant with Ariel, her first child.
She was educated at the University of Wisconsin and at Boston University and worked as a teacher and as a director at the Los Angeles Children's Museum.
Mrs. Glaser, a former teacher, was infected with the human immunodeficiency virus when she was nine months pregnant with Ariel, her first child.
She was educated at the University of Wisconsin and at Boston University and worked as a teacher and as a director at the Los Angeles Children's Museum.
