''
        If Dr. Bessie was the vinegar, then Miss Sadie was the molasses, with an uncommon talent for getting along  and for being as sweet as the candy she used to make for extra money as a young teacher.
''
        Sadie Delany liked to say that  when she got her master's degree in education from Columbia in 1925, a white teacher there observed, ''That Sarah Delany.
By the time she performed in the United States for the first time, in February 1962, she was a revered teacher at the Paris Conservatory, had been awarded the Legion of Honor and had been made a Chevalier des Arts et Lettres.
Her son, Jack Kosslyn, an acting teacher and casting director, said she died at the Jewish Home for the Aging in Los Angeles, where she had lived for the last 14 years.

        Indrani, a distinguished dancer who familiarized Americans with several styles of India's classical dance as a performer and teacher, died on Friday in Beekman Downtown Hospital in Manhattan.
''Indrani was an exquisite dancer, a great teacher and a true rasika, in the largest spirit of that word, meaning a lover of the arts,'' Rachel Cooper of the Asia Society said yesterday.
From there, she initiated pioneering studies of teacher education, admissions procedures and other issues of vital importance to the growing university.
After several years of study and  appearances at the court of Romania, her teacher's native country, Miss Sayao studied recital repertory in France with the tenor Jean de Reszke.
Mrs. Huckaby, the vice principal for girls and an English teacher, took the white student to her office.
A teacher at Harvard University and an accomplished experimenter, she has gained a formidable reputation in a branch of science traditionally dominated by men: physics.
''
        Ms. Corio was one of 12 children of Italian immigrants from Naples who settled in Hartford, where, she said, she was once a Sunday school teacher.

        Rosemary Valaire, a ballet teacher and a director of the Westside Ballet of Santa Monica, Calif., and a former dancer with the Royal Ballet of England, died on May 7 at her home in Los Angeles.
Her career started when a high school teacher and assistant track coach in Harvey, Ill., saw her running for a commuter train (the legend is that she caught it).
Above all, Ms. Brandel was a teacher.

        Anne Woolliams, a British ballet teacher who played a major role in the international success of the Stuttgart Ballet and who became artistic director of the Australian Ballet and the Vienna State Opera Ballet, died in Canterbury, England, on July 8.
Ms. Woolliams, who was trained in England and Germany as a dancer, gained her reputation as a distinguished ballet mistress and teacher during her years in Stuttgart from 1963 to 1975.
As company teacher and ballet mistress, Ms. Woolliams taught many of the company alumni who now direct major companies, including Jiri Kylian, William Forsythe and John Neumeier.
But in the eighth grade, a science teacher saw promise and urged her to enroll in college preparatory courses.
Her mother, Ann, a teacher and administrator, remarried, to Richard Freeman, an orthopedic surgeon; the couple now live in Old Greenwich, Conn.
Ms. Katznelson attended high school and a teacher's college in Jerusalem, then attended a master's program at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.
But Ms. Sorel, who had no immediate survivors, was established as a teacher by then.

        Mignon Garland, a dancer and teacher who played a major role in keeping Isadora Duncan's legacy alive in the United States, died on Sept. 15 at her home in San Pablo, Calif. She was 91.
Miss Garland was also trained as an elementary school teacher at the Maxwell Training School in Brooklyn and like her parents, she was active in social and political causes.
A public school art teacher, she  founded Aunt Len's Doll and Toy Museum, one of the most extensive private collections of dolls and related toys in the United States, and long one of New York City's choice specialty museums.

        Ellen B. Hirschland, an art collector, teacher and a great-niece of the Baltimore collectors Claribel and Etta Cone, died on Sept. 3 while traveling near St. Moritz, Switzerland.
In 1949 she appeared as a glamorous gym teacher in Launder and Gilliat's ''Happiest Days of Your Life,'' with Alastair Sim and Margaret Rutherford.

        Maria Ley Piscator, a theater arts teacher and director and the widow of the theatrical director Erwin Piscator, died on Oct. 14 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan.

        Marie-Madeleine Durufle, an internationally renowned organist and teacher and the widow of the French composer and organist Maurice Durufle, died on Oct. 5 in Paris, where she lived.
She met her future husband at the conservatory when he substituted as a teacher one year for Dupre.
Mrs. Durufle is survived by her sister, Elaine Chevalier, a solfege teacher and choral conductor in Paris.

        Dr. Naomi Bluestone, a medical writer, a practitioner, a teacher and a ''Dear Abby'' to a generation of aspiring doctors, died Nov. 13 at her home in Center Barnstead, N.H. She was 63 and had moved there from Great Neck, N.Y., in 1991.

        Eve F. Kraft, a tennis teacher, coach, author and the founder and former executive director of the Education and Research Committee of the United States Tennis Association, died Thursday at Princeton Hospital.
''
        Kraft, an enthusiast who kept the notes from her first tennis lesson at age 12, wrote ''The Tennis Workbook,'' a learning and practice guide for beginners, and ''The Tennis Teacher's Guide to Group Instruction and Community Tennis Programming.

        Gaby Casadesus, a pianist and teacher whose specialty was the 19th- and 20th-century French piano repertory, and who often performed in a piano duo with her husband, Robert Casadesus, died on Nov. 12 at her home in Paris.
She was cautioned by a teacher that her baby-talk way of speaking -- which has been described as if ''filtered through a ceramic nose'' -- would be a handicap.
Lucile Petry, a teacher at the University of Minnesota School of Nursing, was chosen to initiate the program.
