
        Judith Leibowitz, a teacher at the Juilliard School of Music, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.

        Elinor Cocheran Ayers, a former high school teacher who became a leading dog breeder, died on Wednesday at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington.

        Bertha A. Normano, a teacher of Russian at Middlebury College before her retirement in 1968, died Sunday at the Porter Medical Center in Middlebury, Vt. She was 104 years old and lived in Middlebury.

        Muriel Stuart, an English-born ballerina who danced with Anna Pavlova and was a leading teacher at the School of American Ballet, died yesterday morning at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Miss Stuart's musicality and lyricism were the hallmarks of her style as a dancer with Pavlova, whose company she joined at age 13, and as a teacher at the School of American Ballet, which is affiliated with the New York City Ballet.

        Marion Savage Rosette, a pianist, teacher and composer of children's songs, died at her home in Manhattan on Tuesday.
"
        Ms. Morley is survived by her daughters, Melissa Hacker, a film maker and editor, and Emily Hacker, an actress, director and teacher of English.
      

        Ruth Mary Hill, a teacher and a vice president of Friends World College in Westbury, L.I., died on Feb. 6 in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 73 years old and lived in Fort Myers and Fort Myers Beach.

        Sister Frances Shanahan, a member of the Ursuline Order and a retired teacher, died on Friday at New Rochelle Hospital.
From 1939 to 1962, she was a teacher and the headmistress at the Ursuline School in New Rochelle.

        Gwendolen M. Carter, a teacher and writer who was an authority on Africa and one of the founders of African studies in the United States, died yesterday at her home in Orange City, Fla. She was 84 years old.

        Ruth Hill McGregor, a cello and ensemble teacher at the School for Strings on West 54th Street, died on Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Her husband, Alfred, a teacher at the Horace Mann School in the Bronx, died in 1981.
Mrs. Kramer began teaching in 1966 and retired in 1989 as an elementary and middle-school teacher in the Plainview-Old Bethpage Central School District.
She was a voice teacher at McGill University in Montreal.

        Selma Gross, a teacher and administrator in the New York City public school system for 32 years, died on Sunday at the Whitehall Convalescent and Nursing Home in Chicago.

        Cora DuBois, an anthropologist, teacher and author who was an authority on Southeast Asia, died Sunday at a nursing home in Brookline, Mass.

        Sarah Jane Kinoy, a teacher and social worker who was an early leader in the education of children with cerebral palsy, died on Wednesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan.
Mrs. Heller joined the Yonkers school system in 1974 as a social studies teacher, worked with disadvantaged youngsters and in 1981 was named coordinator of information services.
Ms. Boyce joined the New York City public school system in the mid-1950's as a kindergarten teacher at Public School 125.

        Jane Cooper Bland, a teacher of art and art appreciation to young children, died on Friday at Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia.

        Jane Cooper Bland, a teacher of art and art appreciation to young children, died on Friday at Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia.

        Ana Cristina Bozzo, an art teacher at Hunter College High School who spent the last decade organizing the International Art Show for the End of World Hunger, died Monday at Doctors Hospital in Manhattan.

        Ilse Lichtenstadter, a teacher of Middle Eastern languages and philosophy, died Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston.
She was named principal of Cardozo High School in 1961, where she initiated an academic and work-study program that became a model for the National Teacher Corps.

        Concetta Cornacchia Roy, a former high school teacher and administrator in New York City who founded the Council of Supervisors and Administrators, died on Friday at the Long Island Jewish Hospital in Queens.
Mrs. Roy began her career as a business teacher at Girls High in Brooklyn.
In 1955, when she was a teacher at Flushing High School in Queens, she was elected president of the High School Teachers Association, where she sought to improve working condition for city high school teachers.
She is survived by her husband, Leo, a retired high school teacher, and a sister, Esther Giordiano of Floral Park, Queens.
      

        Vera Yarrow, a teacher in the New York City public school system and a diction coach to singrs and actors, died yesterday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford.

        Eva Le Gallienne, who as an actress, producer, director, translator, writer and teacher was for many decades one of the grand figures of the American stage, died late Monday night at her home in Weston, Conn. She was 92 years old.

        Sara Vogan, a novelist and teacher of creative writing, was found dead on May 17 at her home in San Francisco.
Correction:  June 12, 1991, Wednesday
        An obituary on Thursday about Sara Vogan, a novelist and teacher of creative writing, omitted her survivors.
She graduated from Reed College in Portland and became a children's librarian and a high school teacher of English and history.
'I Chucked School'
        Later in her career, when asked about her decision to give up school in favor of acting, she said: "I'd cut classes to go to rehearsals, then stay up all night studying, but it wasn't working, and one day a very kind teacher advised me to choose one or the other.
Her husband, Johann, a music teacher, died in 1967.
She entered the Society of the Sacred Heart in 1935 and began her career in education in 1938 as a teacher at Maplehurst Academy in the Bronx.
      

        Irina Nijinska, a dancer and teacher who spent much of her life in a one-woman crusade to preserve the choreography of her mother, Bronislava Nijinska, died on Tuesday at the Daniel Freeman Memorial Hospital in Inglewood, Calif. She was 77 years old and lived in Pacific Palisades, Calif.
        She died of cardiac arrest, her husband, Gibbs S. Raetz, said.
With the aid of Nina Youshkevitch, a New York teacher who had danced in ballets by Bronislava Nijinska in the 30's, she staged an excerpt from "Le Baiser de la Fee" last fall for a symposium sponsored by the Dance Critics Association and the Dance Collection of the New York Public Library at Lincoln Center.
In the Red Bank school system, where she was superintendent from 1974 to 1987, she began a systematic way for a teacher to determine how much a student had learned.
In New York City, where she began her career, she was principal of Public School 165, assistant principal of Public School 41 and a teacher at Public School 192.

        Persis Emma Gladieux, a teacher and expert in Japanese horticulture, died July 30 at the Woodbine Nursing Center in Alexandria, Va. She was 82 years old and lived in Alexandria.

        Virginia Hoff Greenburg, a pianist, music teacher and co-founder of the prestigious Hoff-Barthelson Music School in Scarsdale, N.Y., died on Friday at the Hospice of the Central Coast in Carmel, Calif. She was 91 years old.
An accomplished pianist as well as teacher, she and Ms. Barthelson gave many two-piano recitals at the school and elsewhere.

        Hallie Burnett Zeisel, a novelist, college teacher and co-editor of Story magazine from 1942 to 1971, died on Wednesday at the Steward Health Center in Raleigh, N.C. She was 82 years old.
She was married in the 1930's to Robert Abbott, a college teacher, but the marriage ended in divorce.

        Jeanette Leentvaar, a Dutch dancer, teacher and choreographer, died on Monday at a friend's home in Caracas, Venezuela, after a long illness.
"
        Miss Rosenthal was born in the city of Krefeld in Germany, attended school in Bonn and graduated from a teacher training college in Frankfurt.

        Veronica Perry, a Harlem teacher and the mother of Edmund Perry, the honor student fatally shot by a police officer on Morningside Drive on June 12, 1985, died on Oct. 4 at St. Luke's Hospital.
Mrs. Perry, a fifth-generation Harlem resident and a graduate of Bronx Community College and Fordham University, was a teacher for the Lenox Hill Association.
Musical Comedy on Television
        In the 1970's, she embarked on a separate career as a television producer and teacher.

        Dorothy Weed, a piano teacher and former director of the Diller-Quaile Music School on the Upper East Side, died on Tuesday at Doctor's Hospital.
There, she met and married Leone Ginzburg, a teacher of Russian and a leader of the anti-fascist intellectuals who in the late 1930's formed the core group of the Einaudi publishing house.

        Simone Beck, a passionate cook, author and teacher who collaborated with Julia Child on the influential cookbook "Mastering the Art of French Cooking," died yesterday at her home in Placassier, a small village in southern France.
We called her La Super Francaise, because she was so French: a wonderful teacher, wonderful enthusiasm.
In Stamford she volunteered as a teacher's assistant.
