She entered Hampton Institute (now Hampton University) in Hampton, Va., intending to become a teacher of home economics, but she also joined the renowned Hampton Choir, with which she toured Europe in 1929.
In the early grades, she said, an entire class guided by a teacher may focus  on a single purpose, like finding ways to work together.

        Virginia Henderson, who took a temporary job caring for World War I wounded and ended up helping to elevate nursing into a respected independent profession  as a renowned researcher, teacher and scholar, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Branford, Conn.
The couple settled in Paris, where their daughter became a pupil of  Olga Preobrajenska, a Russian-born teacher.
A specialist in Jewish liturgical music, and a composition teacher at the Jewish Theological Seminary, Ms. Gideon composed many settings of Hebrew prayers, both for chorus and solo voice, including a complete Sabbath service.
She taught composition at Brooklyn College, City College of the City University of New York, the Manhattan School of Music and the Jewish Theological Seminary, and it  was at the seminary that she earned her doctorate in composition -- after nearly a quarter century as a teacher -- in 1970.

        Sophia Delza Glassgold, a modern dancer and teacher and an expert in the ancient Chinese exercise form called tai chi, died on June 27 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
"
        Miss Pupko grew up in Vilna, Lithuania, which was then part of Poland, and became a teacher at a school for Jewish children.
She worked for many years as a bridge teacher, primarily in Miami.

        Myra Cohn Livingston, a poet, anthologist and teacher who wrote  more than 80 books of poetry for children, died on Friday at her home in Los Angeles.
Too young to obtain a teacher's license, she joined her father and uncle on a long trip to Germany, where she had an experience that would change her life.
A single adult, a 25-year-old teacher, managed to survive.

        Cynthia Novack, an improvisational dancer and a writer and teacher, died on Sept. 27 at home in Manhattan.
She taught at Stanford for a while before coming to New York and beginning a part-time career as a teacher of creative writing, first at Columbia and later at New York University.

        Genia Robinor, a pianist and teacher, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
Ms. Robinor was a well-known piano teacher whose pupils included Andre Watts.

        Marion Durham Cuyjet, a pioneering teacher of black dancers, died on Oct. 22 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.
As actress, singer, adapter of plays, radio personality and teacher, Ms. Kressyn was one of the most popular artists in the Yiddish-speaking theater, brightening musicals as well as plays over a period of 60 years.

        Aida Alvarez, a dancer, choreographer and teacher of Spanish dance, died on Oct. 26 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.

        Dorothy Bird, an early Martha Graham dancer who also appeared on Broadway and became a noted Graham teacher, died on Tuesday at the home of her son, Casey Villard, in Etna, N.H. She was 84.
She taught modern dance for 25  years at such places as the Neighborhood Playhouse, the School of American Ballet and the 92d Street Y  and was a master teacher at New York University and other colleges in and around New York.
According to family legend, she was chaperoned by her mother during her first year in New York, spent the second year on her own and in the third married her voice teacher, Charles W. Kitchell.
Dr. Fahmy, born in Mansura, Egypt, in 1910 to a family prominent in medicine, was trained as a teacher before turning to psychology.
degrees in music education at the Crane School of Music at State University College in Potsdam, N.Y., and was certified as a teacher for youngsters with perceptual handicaps.
Miss Donovan was a history teacher in the Boston public school system from 1938 to 1943, and then served in the Women's Army Corps during World War II, where she quickly rose from private to captain.

        Anne Schwerner, a retired New York teacher and the mother of Michael H. Schwerner, a 24-year-old civil-rights worker killed by Ku Klux Klansmen near Philadelphia, Miss., in 1964, died on Friday at a nursing home in Kettering, Ohio.
The novelist was born Suzanne Doreau, the daughter of an army officer and a teacher, in a village near St.-Tropez on the French Riviera.

        Irene Arnold, a lawyer and teacher who spent her life in the service of the retarded and other victims of circumstance, like war and persecution, died on Jan. 4 at the DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan.
From 1929 to 1954, Dr. Eisenstein taught music education and the history of Jewish music at Jewish Theological Seminary's Teacher's Institute, now known as  the Albert A.
