In recent years, she was a volunteer teacher at Public School 3 in Greenwich Village.
The murder victim was a troubled teacher, Roseann Quinn.
The murder victim was a troubled teacher, Roseann Quinn.

        Annapaola Cancogni, a teacher, writer and translator of French and Italian works into English, died on Wednesday at Mt.
The daughter of a missionary teacher, Miss Wood was born in Nara, Japan, and grew up in Bloomington, Ill. After receiving bachelor's and master's degrees in rhetoric at the University of Michigan, she taught English for four years at Vassar College.
A pioneer in child development, both as a teacher and researcher, she documented young children's suffering and recovery from deprivation and trauma.
She supervised development of texts and curriculum and teacher retraining.
The concept, developed by her predecessor, Ira Goetz, features a fast-paced, question-and-answer format in which the teacher moves about the classroom from one student to another.

        Irene Claire Fromer, a retired teacher and artist, died on Tuesday at Doctors Hospital on Staten Island.
Dr. Ettinger was a highly regarded teacher who developed the first radiology residency program at Tufts and practiced at the New England Medical Center in Boston for nearly 40 years.
She continued as a clinician and teacher at Tufts until 1970, when at age 71 she became a consultant and director of student teaching, overseeing the radiology teaching program at the medical school until 1985 and teaching an elective course.

        Eugenie Leontovich, an actress, playwright, director and teacher who created memorable roles on Broadway in "Grand Hotel," "Twentieth Century" and "Anastasia," died yesterday at the Kateri Nursing Home in Manhattan.

        Beatrice Bishop Berle, a physician, teacher and author, died on Friday at her home in Great Barrington, Mass.
"
        But Miss Auger was a late bloomer, musically: she did not begin studying voice until she was out of college and working as an elementary-school teacher in Chicago.
Mrs. Dadourian joined the staff of the Holy Martyrs Armenian Day School in Bayside, Queens in 1974, serving as teacher, principal, then superintendent.

        Florence Turitz Bower, a music teacher for more than 60 years, who headed the voice department at the American Musical and Dramatic Academy in Manhattan, died on Wednesday at home in Newton, Mass.
Mrs. Bower joined the faculty of the academy as a voice teacher in 1964, the year it was founded.
Mrs. Cooper's husband, Rudolf, a high school teacher, died in 1968.
She joined the Huntington school system as a teacher and designed, developed and administered its gifted-education curriculum and program.
In the late 1970's she also created and broadcast "Ask the Teacher" radio programs at the Long Island station WGSM and at WVOX in Westchester.
While working at Random House as a secretary she enrolled at the Juilliard School, but left when the dean refused to let her study with the teacher of her choice, Hans Heinz.

        Elise Reiman, a longtime teacher at the School of American Ballet, died on Thursday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.
A keen-eyed teacher with a wry, deceptively lazy humor, she received the school's Mae L. Wien Award for distinguished service, in 1992.
Miss Carbery, a native of Brooklyn, graduated from Hunter College, where she trained to become a teacher of Greek and Latin.

        Stella Kramrisch, an authority on Indian art, a teacher and a curator, died on Tuesday at her home in Philadelphia.
Strong Self-Images
        As a teacher, Dr. Biber believed that the best early education programs develop the emotional life of children as well as their intellects, foster strong self-images, encourage responsibility to others, and support imagination and curiosity.
Toward that end, Dr. Biber, along with her colleagues at the college, helped to establish teacher workshops in New York City public schools in the 1940's and 50's.

        Eda Helen Brooks, an actress and voice teacher, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Her principal teacher was the renowned Aleksandr Goldenweiser, at the Moscow Conservatory, where she subsequently taught.
Miss Hall was born in Brooklyn and studied at Pratt Institute, where her father was a music teacher.

        Helen Marshall, an American painter and art teacher, died on Nov. 24 at her home in Lavenham, Sussex, England.
While living in Siam, Mrs. Landon discovered the autobiographical books by Anna Leonowens, a Welsh widow who was a governess, teacher and secretary in the court of King Mongkut in the 1860's.
