Dr. Wu joined forces with a research team at the National Bureau of Standards in Washington, which had one of the few laboratories in the country that could chill materials to extremely low temperatures.
Ms. Cohan, who was the broadcast creative director at the agency, had ultimate responsibility for the production of its television and radio commercials, working with the creative director and creative team.
An accomplished athlete who founded Switzerland's first women's field hockey club and was a member of the Swiss sailing team in the 1924 Olympics, Ms. Maillart was initially drawn to the sea.
Instead, after a brief film career in Berlin in 1930, she went to Moscow, then walked across the Caucasus Mountains, tried to put together a women's field hockey team in Russia and rowed for a team called the Alimentation Workers' Eight.
Instead, after a brief film career in Berlin in 1930, she went to Moscow, then walked across the Caucasus Mountains, tried to put together a women's field hockey team in Russia and rowed for a team called the Alimentation Workers' Eight.
Mrs. Clark was also widely known for directing many of the surveys that defined American public opinion during a time of great social and political turmoil in the 1970's, and she was part of the team that introduced exit polls into American politics and journalism.
In 1964, she was part of the Harris team that conducted an exit poll for CBS News in the tightly contested California Republican primary between Nelson A. Rockefeller and Barry Goldwater.
'' But the official results proved the Harris team right.
But, she liked to recall, the nuns, in a gesture of sublime sportsmanship and Christian compassion for the team's hapless junior college opponents, told her that if she hit a ninth one out of the park, they would excommunicate her on the spot.
After all, while Roller Derby's women did not skate with or against men, they were an integral part of the team, taking to the track for two of the four 12-minute quarters and skating under the same no-holds-barred rules that applied to their male teammates.
She was a mainstay for the United States Wightman Cup team from 1927-39.
In the days before pretaped shows, she was part of a six-member production team that brought a script from rehearsal through live production in about a month, said Mildred Schaefer, whose husband, George, headed Compass Productions.
A native of Waco whose restless father kept the family on the move, including three years homesteading in the New Mexico Territory, she was 13 when she hitched up a four-horse team, gathered the reins and led a Conestoga convoy that took her family to the dusty little town of Alpine in the Big Bend region of southwestern Texas.
Mrs. Henson was also the lead plaintiff in a class action suit against the Japanese Government seeking damages for forced prostitution, and shortly before she died she was interviewed by a team of lawyers visiting from Tokyo.
She was affiliated for many years with the Chest Service at Bellevue Hospital, where she headed a research team that tested new drugs for tuberculosis.
But her team of clinical social workers arranged for Owen and his mother to stay with Owen's grandmother, preserving Owen's caretaking environment and family connection, she said.
During World War II, she worked on a research team that produced a vaccine for cholera, and in 1945 and 1946 she was a research assistant on the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb.
6 player on the Surrey county team, but had had only one lesson from a professional.
In Brooklyn, where a fictional cat named Rhubarb once inherited a baseball team named the Loons, Miss Katzenbogen's expensive eccentricities on behalf of cats might have been shrugged off, but not on Laurel Canyon Boulevard.
''
        Ms. Steel produced several movies in recent years, among them ''Cool Runnings,'' a highly successful comedy about a Jamaican bobsled team.
Dr. Holley gave some of the prize money to Dr. Keller and others on his research team at Cornell.
She represented the United States in 1996 at the Blenheim Castle three-day event in England; also that year she won the fall national championship three-day event of the United States equestrian team at Fair Hill.
