For a while, however, it appeared that the team would fall into other, less generous, hands.
In 1978, the Yawkey estate was on the verge of selling the team to a syndicate formed by Haywood C. Sullivan, a Red Sox executive, and the team's former trainer, Edward G. (Buddy) LeRoux Jr., with Mrs. Yawkey as a limited partner.
In 1978, the Yawkey estate was on the verge of selling the team to a syndicate formed by Haywood C. Sullivan, a Red Sox executive, and the team's former trainer, Edward G. (Buddy) LeRoux Jr., with Mrs. Yawkey as a limited partner.
The arrangement proved stormy almost from the start, with Mr. LeRoux pressing for measures that would earn profits for the partnership and Mrs. Yawkey just as determined to continue operating the team in the grand Yawkey tradition.
Like her husband, who saw his team win three pennants but never a World Series championship, Mrs. Yawkey, too, was denied the ultimate goal.
She was the youngest member of the Austrian women's team that won the European title in 1935 and 1936 and the world title in 1937.
In 1951 she returned to international competition as a member of the British women's team and won another European Women's Championship, a triumph she was to repeat six more times.
She won another title at the World Team Olympiad in New York in 1964.
Mrs. Markus became the target of controversy when she supported two British players, Terence Reese and Boris Schapiro, who had been found guilty of cheating by the World Bridge Federation in the 1965 World Team Championships in Buenos Aires.
Five Doubles Titles
        She married Leslie Godfree, the captain of England's Wightman Cup Team, in 1926.
In recent years, Mrs. Ley directed a team of designers who turned out 1,200 styles each season under the Escada label alone.
She was born in Worthington, Minn., was an alternate on the 1928 Olympic diving team and became a champion golfer.
Although Miss Green had the same first name, and played the same position on the same team as the character portrayed by Geena Davis in "A League of Their Own," the 1992 movie based on the famous women's league, that was merely a coincidence, according to those familiar with the league and the movie, including Kelly Candaele, whose story was the basis of the movie.
After graduation, she played semipro softball for the Olympettes, a women's team that played in Boston Garden.
Her service in Africa included work on the Committee for Health in Southern Africa, a physicians' evaluation team in Liberia, the medical college planning committee for Africa University in Zimbabwe and the United Methodist Church medical aid program for Mozambique.
They won the Goldman Pairs in 1957, making them the only married couple to win in the 64-year history of the event; they also won the Master Mixed Team Championship in 1965.
In her prior teaching post at the University of Washington School of Public Health from 1972 to 1986, she was on the team that developed the Sickness Impact Profile.
Linked Cancers to Virus
        She also studied the relationship between viruses and human cancer cells, leading a team of researchers that succeeded in linking viruses to eight types of human cancer in 1960.
In 1945, when the team moved to Indiana and became the Fort Wayne Daisies, Mrs. St. Aubin, a left-handed batter, led the league with a .299 average and in extra-base hits (24), doubles (17) and home runs (3).
