The reason they failed became apparent when Dr. Horstmann's team detected the polio virus in the blood of infected monkeys and chimpanzees before signs of paralysis appeared.
''
        ''What to Expect When You're Expecting,'' the team's first book in a best-selling series on what to expect from pregnancy, babies and toddlers, was released by the Workman Publishing Company in 1984.
On her 100th birthday she was presented with a team jersey bearing the number 100.
It was produced by an interdisciplinary team at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and financed by the Club of Rome, an international research organization that studies ''the complex of problems troubling men of all nations,'' like poverty, alienated youth and monetary disruptions.
As a teenager working as a ticket taker, Ms. Rutherford met Sam Russell, a star of the black theater with the comedy team Bilo and Ashes.
They made a formidable team, propelling The Post into one of its most dynamic periods.
The daughter of a husband-and-wife vaudeville team, Ms. Freeman was literally born into show business, growing up on the song-and-dance circuit.
In her junior year, the high school ski coach asked her to join the team.
She rejoined the national disabled team and persuaded potential corporate sponsors to support the team as they would any other.
She rejoined the national disabled team and persuaded potential corporate sponsors to support the team as they would any other.
She provided drill teams for 10 Super Bowls, 4 Rose Bowls and 7 Pro Bowls, and at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, she put 1,268 drill team members through their lively paces.
Two years later, at the rededication of the Statue of Liberty, she fielded a team almost that large, including all-stars from every state.
David Wolper, who produced the Olympic and Statue of Liberty shows, said: ''Kay recruited, trained and prepared thousands of young drill team girls for the events, and when Kay trained them, they were perfect.
''
        She took her drill team idea to El Centro High School in El Centro, Calif., and from there to San Diego High School and Santa Monica High School.
She opened a drill team summer camp, started an international competition for drill teams, founded and edited a magazine on the subject of drill teams, and wrote what some consider the definitive textbook on the subject.
She had been heartily campaigning to make drill team competitions an Olympic sport.
      
The Eniac programming team broke up, but Mrs. Holberton was the one of the six who stayed longest in the field.
