At Citicorp, as senior officer for corporate affairs and a member of the company's senior management team, Mrs. Meyer was widely credited with restoring the reputation of the banking company after it had gone through a financial crisis.
As a team in meditation and activism, the couple helped renovate dilapidated buildings to house the homeless.

        Eleanor C. Lambertsen, a leader in American nursing education who introduced the concept of team nursing for better patient care, died on March 30 at Waverly Heights, a nursing home in Gladwyne, Pa. She was 82 and a former resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
The idea of team nursing sprang from her doctoral dissertation, and in the decades afterward, the concept made her a mentor and teacher to generations of health professionals around the world.
''The purpose of team nursing,'' Dr. Lambertsen wrote in her dissertation, ''is to blend different kinds of nurses into the working unit whose core is the patient and his individual nursing needs.
Her dissertation spelled out her idea of team nursing, and it was published as a book by Teachers College Press under the title ''Nursing Team Organization and Functioning.
Her dissertation spelled out her idea of team nursing, and it was published as a book by Teachers College Press under the title ''Nursing Team Organization and Functioning.
The demonstration attracted administrators from across the country who sought to reorganize their nursing staffs according to Dr. Lambertsen's team concept.
The American Nurses Association honored Dr. Lambertsen in 1984 for originating the concept of team nursing.
She was 82, and with Lee Hadley had formed the writing team known as Hadley Irwin.
''I think she established herself in sport like Babe Ruth,'' said Terry Crawford, who coached the American women's track and field team at the 1988 Summer Games.
A team of designers that reported to her will continue to design the line.
Ms. Long and Mr. Daniell became a prominent husband-wife journalistic team, covering the Nuremberg trials and postwar Germany.
She also helped lead a team of the paper's reporters who  covered the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center.
She and her husband were a team.
Beginning in 1937, and through World War II, they lived in London, and Mr. Murrow  went on to direct CBS's World War II reporting team and to win fame for his reporting about the war.
She also served on a British-American crisis team that worked to enhance relations between British civilians and American military personnel stationed in Britain.
