They won the National Women's Pair Championship in Phoenix in March, and, with others, the National Women's Knockout Team Championship in Atlanta in August.
She said she was apparently kept on the job because of her citywide reputation as a terror on the women's softball team.
The Butlers were a popular ballroom dance team for many years, performing in  Manhattan at the Ritz-Carlton, the Plaza and other hotels, as well as in Europe.
Her father, Frederick C. Miller, who had been captain of Notre Dame's 1928 football team, was the company chairman.
Mrs. Baron was a member of the United States Women's Team that took third place in the 1968 world championships in Deauville, France, and she competed in the World Women's Pairs Championship in 1978 and 1982.
The Hymans first oversaw the attendance of disabled veterans at Giants games at the Polo Grounds, then followed the team's migration to Yankee Stadium in 1956, then Giants Stadium in 1976.

        Toni Stone, a scrappy second baseman who became a footnote to baseball history in 1953 as a member of the Negro League's Indianapolis Clowns when she became the first woman to play as a regular on a big-league professional team, died on Nov. 2 at a nursing home in Alameda, Calif. She was 75 and had lived in Oakland, Calif., for many years.
She began playing on the sandlots of St. Paul, becoming so proficient that Gabby Street, a former major league catcher and St. Louis Cardinals manager who was managing a minor league team in St. Paul, bought her a pair of spikes and let her attend his baseball camp.
After she and Dr. Robbins were married in 1975, the couple worked as a team.
As leader of the debating team, Ms. Jordan, known as B. J. to her friends, later proudly recalled maneuvering the Harvard team to a draw.
As leader of the debating team, Ms. Jordan, known as B. J. to her friends, later proudly recalled maneuvering the Harvard team to a draw.
"When an all-black team ties Harvard, it wins," she said.
The next year, she was selected for the United States Curtis Cup team.
