There she became a member of a team assembled by Ernst May, who was Frankfurt's architect and overseer of city planning in the late 1920's.
''I knew Wilma was nervous because she was only 16, and I knew how nervous I was at 16 trying to make the Olympic team,'' Faggs remembered.

        Sandra Schmirler, the star of the first women's curling team to win an Olympic gold medal and one of Canada's most popular athletes, died Thursday in Regina, Saskatchewan.
After graduating from the University of Regina, Schmirler was asked to join a local team.
Schmirler was six months pregnant when she won the world title in 1996 and was on maternity leave from her job with a recreation center when the team went to the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano, Japan.
''When you have success and you're having fun, it just snowballs and gets bigger and bigger,'' Schmirler said of the team's success.
''
        Schmirler's team was voted the Canadian Press team of the year for 1998, and she was inducted into the Canadian Curling Hall of Fame last March.
''
        Schmirler's team was voted the Canadian Press team of the year for 1998, and she was inducted into the Canadian Curling Hall of Fame last March.
By the age of 6, Ms. Trent was the host of her own radio show on WHN, ''Baby Sybil Elaine and Her Kiddie Revue,'' on which she would conjure  imitations of Joe Penner and the Block and Sully comedy team before closing with a sweetly sung ''Thank You for a Lovely Evening.
But that was only a small part of the legacy of the team known as ''Mac and Elsie.
Her movie appearances included ''The Hospital''; two films with the team of Merchant Ivory, ''The Bostonians'' and ''Jefferson in Paris'';  and the remake of ''Sabrina,'' in which she played Harrison Ford's mother.
In 1901, her father, John Stephen Dooley, helped the new Red Sox team get a home at the Huntington Avenue Grounds.
At 18, she was a platform diver on the first United States women's swimming team in the Olympics.
She was an official of United States Olympians, held the starter's gun for women's swimming in the Olympic trials during the 1920's and 1930's, helped choose team uniforms and raised money for the United States squads.
Reilly first gained a degree of prominence as a member of the Raybestos Brakettes fast-pitch softball team in the 1950's and 60's.
The team won scores of national and world championships, and its members encouraged Reilly to attend college, pointing her on a career that made her a well-known coach and athletic administrator.
''Brenda joined the Brakettes at 18 right out of high school and worked at the Raybestos factory in Stratford for a number of years while playing for the team from 1956 until 1965,'' said Mickey Macchietto Stratton, one of her teammates.
''By the time Brenda was a senior member of the women's basketball team, she was 30 and three years older than the coach,'' Pullek said.

        Mary K. Wells, who acted in films, theater, television and radio and was part of a writing team that won two daytime Emmy Awards, died on Monday.
Her parents, Jack and Josephine Peck formed a song and dance team in vaudeville and radio.
Among the other artists whose work Ms. Austin produced were Stanley Silverman, Anne Bogart, David Del Tredici, Eve Ensler, John Kelly, Elizabeth Swados, Richard Peaslee, Bill Irwin and the team of Cornelius Eady and Deidre Murray, the authors of the musical ''Running Man,'' one of her recent projects.
Mrs. Leighton-Porter settled into family life in Bermuda and in England, turning to more staid endeavors like sponsoring teas for a cricket team in Horsham.
Mr. Kanzler, who died in 1967 and was an uncle by marriage of Henry Ford, was associated with the Ford company and was a director of the Detroit Lions football team.
