The Kerrs made their debut as a team on Broadway in 1946 with ''Song of Bernadette,'' a dramatization of Franz Werfel's novel about a young Frenchwoman who was canonized after saying she had seen visions of the Virgin Mary in a grotto near Lourdes.
She met Mr. Griffiths, a fellow student, at the University of Missouri, where both were on the debating team.
Caryll G. Rice II, the secretary of the Marine team she coached in the mid-1990's, recalled her enthusiasm.
Late in 1972, when her team played in Florida against a squad from the East Coast, the emotions were overwhelming.
Mrs. Rosenfield took credit for casting a virtually unknown Robert De Niro as the doomed catcher, and Mr. Rosenfield, a Chicago corporate lawyer, appeared as a team owner.

        Diane Geppi-Aikens, who coached the Loyola of Maryland women's lacrosse team to a No.
''
        Geppi-Aikens persevered in the hopes of seeing her son, Michael, graduate from high school and having her team make it to the N.C.A.A.
On May 31, two weeks after her team went to the tournament semifinals, she attended Michael's graduation in Towson, Md.
''Having Diane in our lives, she taught us that winning and losing a lacrosse game isn't anything,'' Suzanne Eyler, a senior and the team's top scorer, told The Baltimore Sun afterward.

        Martha Chase, who was half of a scientific team that in 1952 used a kitchen blender to help prove that DNA is the molecule that carries genetic information, died on Aug. 8 in Lorain, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland.
At one, Thomas Jefferson High, she founded a drill team called the Lassos, which is still in existence.
Gibson did team with Angela Buxton to win the Wimbledon doubles in 1956.
Still, she made extraordinary use of the 170-member team of cameramen and technicians that she assembled.
The truth was that Ms. Cross was the child of an affair Mrs. Storch had had with Jimmy Cross, a black song-and-dance man who was Stump in the well-known performing team Stump and Stumpy.
In 1924, she was a member of the United States team that competed in the Olympics in Paris.
The group, the team argued, subjected Ms. Hearst to intensely stressful conditions, like isolating her from family and friends and locking her in a closet for six weeks, allowing its members to indoctrinate her and force a bizarre behavioral transformation.
