But when the ship docked at Hamburg, Germany, she was no longer a member of the Olympic team.
Did you make the Olympic team or did I?
So she went to Brundage and complained that I was setting a bad example for the team, and they got together and told me the next morning that I was fired.
''
        According to ''The Complete Book of the Summer Olympics,'' by David Wallechinsky, the Olympic team doctor had reported that she was suffering from acute alcoholism, but Holm denied it.
Holm maintained that many of her fellow athletes had also been drinking on the voyage because there was no ban on alcohol, and some 200 team members petitioned Brundage to reverse the ban.
When she took control of the Reds, Mrs. Schott, a socially prominent widow and heir to an industrial fortune, was the only female owner in the major leagues who had bought a team in her own right.
She maintained that in purchasing the team, she might have prevented its move out of Cincinnati.
In October 1999, Mrs. Schott turned over control of the team to a group headed by Carl Lindner, one of the limited partners, in a $67 million deal.
Mrs. Schott promoted the team at functions, and she loved to take part in the Wave from her box seat at Riverfront Stadium.
''
        She compounded that gaffe with her sympathy offering to the umpiring crew; according to published reports, it was a recycled bouquet given to her by the team's television affiliate.
She turned over day-to-day affairs to John Allen, the team's controller.
In 1978 she was invited by the Miami Dolphins football team to direct the team's cheerleaders.
In 1978 she was invited by the Miami Dolphins football team to direct the team's cheerleaders.
Peter Kennedy attributed much of the team's success to his father having taught them perseverance.
The daughter of Charles Shipman Payson, an industrialist, and Joan Whitney Payson, founder of the New York Mets baseball team, she grew up in Manhasset, N.Y., where she founded the Manhasset Stable for thoroughbred racing, which she later moved to Delaplane.

        Rose Gacioch, an outstanding outfielder and pitcher in the heyday of women's professional baseball who became a mainstay of the Rockford Peaches team later featured in the movie ''A League of Their Own,'' died last Thursday at a nursing home in Clinton Township, Mich. She was 89.
At 16, she was the only girl on a town baseball team called the Little Cardinals.
While still in her teens, she played one season for the All Star Ranger Girls, a barnstorming women's team.
In 1950, a team led by Karl Lehmann unearthed the missing right hand of the Louvre's Winged Victory.
The team also found the tip of the ring finger nearby.
Examining the fragments left there by the Austrian team more than 70 years before, she found the rest of Winged Victory's ring finger and a thumb.
But although their names are inextricably linked as a duet team for many listeners, Mr. Frank said they had actually devoted most their time to performing on their own, mainly because they disliked much of duet repertory.
Parks worked hard behind the scenes at the Tony Awards:
        ''As the one who warms up the live audience with good-natured barbs at the theater industry before airtime, Mr. Cohen is the more visible member of the team; but it is Miss Parks who puts the whole thing together.
After the Sept. 11 attacks, she became a team leader of the Community Resilience Project, a counseling center in Northern Virginia supported by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Because Ms. Lloyd's conversation was as expressive as her dancing, and because she and her husband were inseparable, Richard Buckle, editor of Ballet magazine in London, suggested in 1951 that the couple write dance criticism as a team.
After they wrote for various publications, the team as Alexander Bland began writing dance reviews in 1955 in The Observer, a weekly for which Gosling was also the art critic.
