They were married in the mid-1940's and became a team in their Holocaust pursuits when he started representing the victims, especially children, before the courts and found that many of them had only vague memories of their ordeals.
The couple, who eventually married, became an artistic team, he handling the plaster and she the painting for frescoes all over the country, including her most acclaimed work, ''The Evolution of Music,'' at George Washington High School in upper Manhattan.
It was by shining precisely tuned lasers on such a condensate, or cloud, of ultra-cold sodium atoms that Dr. Hau and her team reduced the speed of a light beam to a pace slower than her bicycle.
A table covered with a labyrinth of little mirrors guides a network of beams requiring perfect adjustment, and Dr. Hau and her team work long and tedious hours, sometimes around the clock.
Other major 60's hits included ''Wishin' and Hopin' '' (1964), and ''The Look of Love'' (1967), both written by Burt Bacharach and Hal David, the team that supplied Ms. Warwick with most of her early hits.
To make the album, the Atlantic producing team of Jerry Wexler, Tom Dowd and Arif Mardin, who had brought Ms. Franklin to her peak of popularity, took Ms. Springfield to Memphis to record with a hot rhythm section.
'' For many years, she went back and forth between dance forms, touring with the Fokine Ballet, forming a ballroom dance team with Tony de Marco, appearing in pioneering television productions in 1931 and 1939 and serving as ballerina of the Roxy Theater.
In her third meet, the United States final trials in Newark, she finished second and made the Olympic team.
''
        Rosenfeld and her Canadian teammates later defeated Robinson and the American team in the 4x100-meter relay, with the United States team taking the silver.
''
        Rosenfeld and her Canadian teammates later defeated Robinson and the American team in the 4x100-meter relay, with the United States team taking the silver.
Still, she made the Olympic relay team, along with Harriet Bland, Annette Rogers and Helen Stephens.
This time in Berlin, the American team -- with Robinson running the third leg -- captured the gold when a member of the record-setting German team fumbled the baton pass before the last handoff.
This time in Berlin, the American team -- with Robinson running the third leg -- captured the gold when a member of the record-setting German team fumbled the baton pass before the last handoff.
She sat on the Governor's Council on AIDS, the Task Force on Child Abuse and Neglect and the New Jersey Court Team on Domestic Violence.
Sonny Werblin later became an officer of Monmouth Park race track and president of the New York Jets football team, built the Meadowlands Sports Complex and was chairman of Madison Square Garden.
Although Austrian officials were uncomfortable about choosing Jews for their Olympic team, she, Judith Deutsch and Lucie Goldner, all Jews, were about to be selected.

        Kim Perrot, the tiny floor leader of the Houston Comets team that has won the first two Women's National Basketball Association championships, died here today.
But the success of college women's basketball, coupled with the Olympic championship team at the 1996 Atlanta Games, put women's basketball on the American sports map.
's first season, Perrot was in charge of the league's best team.
When they did their ''Meat'' show, for example, they cooked for a girls' lacrosse team in the kitchen of a boarding school.
Her death was reported at Dhaulagiri base camp by her husband, Gary Scott Pfisterer, the American leader of the team.
''
        In 1971, when Princeton University first admitted women, Kraft became the women's varsity tennis coach, leading the team to an undefeated record for the three years of her tenure.
After working as a public defender and teaching a seminar in criminal defense at Stanford University's law school, Ms. Bird became a volunteer in Mr. Brown's 1974 campaign for governor, serving as his frequent chauffeur on his trips to her area and later as a trusted adviser on his transition team.
