Two years later, she was part of a team of physicians at Hopkins that performed the first ''blue baby'' operation, a surgical procedure that corrected a congenital heart abnormality that robs the blood of oxygen.
The film's success led the team to make ''Joe Leahy's Neighbors'' (1989), about the political and cultural struggles of a mixed-race coffee planter, and ''Black Harvest'' (1992), about land and money disputes and their escalation into tribal warfare.
The films established the team's international reputation, with each one winning a major prize at the Cinéma du Réel festival, which honors documentaries.
She and her husband were Life magazine's first photographer-reporter team to cover the war.
She played an important role in the small team that  shaped Mrs. Reagan's trademark ''just say no'' to drugs campaign.
''
        In high school, she played softball for a girls' team called the Dr Peppers, sponsored by the soft-drink company.
Her team was beaten in the real game, the final of the 1946 championship series of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, despite getting 13 hits.
She excelled in track and field at Lincoln High School, and after graduation played amateur softball with a team called the Americanettes.
She coached the Linden, N.J., Arians, a team in the Eastern Major Girls Softball League.
''
        Ms. Lutyens had a costume shop in New York, where she helped create costumes for several Ballet Theater productions, among them Antony Tudor's ''Dim Luster'' and Jerome Robbins's ''Fancy Free,'' working with Motley, the British design team, and designers who included Kermit Love and Miles White.
''
        The daughter of a tennis instructor and a native of Ventura, Calif., she played on the men's tennis team at the University of Southern California because there was no women's squad.
In 1951, she teamed with Todd in doubles at the nationals, losing in the final to Fry and Hart, and she played doubles on the 1951 Wightman Cup team that defeated Britain, 6-1.
The Perkins Center used psychoanalytic ideas to help children deal with emotional problems and incorporated the idea of team treatment, which helped parents understand children's actions.
The 11 a.m. entry: ''Went in to get dinner, as I've got menfolk working hard, hauling loads and loads of manure with the manure spreader that is driven by a team of horses.
In 1974, in one of the many articles she wrote on her career, she said:
        ''My most unforgettable experience would have to be as the youngest member of the first American women's Olympic swimming and diving team in 1920.
On her doctor's recommendation that she swim for her health, she joined the celebrated Women's Swimming Association team in New York.
But because Riggin and Wainwright had also made the Olympic team as swimmers, they went.
''When I won my first trophy and it was as big as me, I knew I wanted to someday make the Olympic team.
Gallagher attended the University of Arizona for a semester and a half, training with the men's cross-country team.
