Reached yesterday at the University of Nevada in Reno, where he and his wife had worked as a team, her husband said the cause of death was a central nervous infection.
She married Dr. Scharrer in 1934, and they remained a team at Einstein until his accidental drowning in 1965.
" As part of the writing team for the soap opera "All My Children," she won Emmy Awards in 1985 and 1988.
She also had her differences with the Masters-Johnson team, questioning their advocacy and use of two therapists working together because, she felt, one therapist of either sex would suffice.
In her youth, Miss Chadwick was a downhill ski racer on the United States A team.

        Lee Hadley, an Iowa State English professor who helped turn a collaborative pedagogical sendup into an acclaimed literary career as half of a writing team known to young readers as Hadley Irwin, died on Tuesday at her home in Madrid, Iowa.
But that would have made her a mere 14 in 1914, when as a Chicago debutante she scandalized North Shore society by dropping out of Madame Young's finishing school to form a dance team with Carl Hyson, a wealthy young man who later became her husband.
Calvin Griffith became president of the franchise after Clark Griffith died and moved the team to Minnesota in 1961.
Mrs. Haynes served as an executive vice president and assistant treasurer and each owned 26 percent of the team before it was sold to Carl Pohlad in 1985.
A native of Cleveland, Miss Wade was a star on the Delta State team there in the late 1920's before barnstorming with a semipro team known as the Tupelo Red Wings.
A native of Cleveland, Miss Wade was a star on the Delta State team there in the late 1920's before barnstorming with a semipro team known as the Tupelo Red Wings.
In 21 years at Cleveland High School, she led the team to a 453-89-6 record.
The experience started them in their career as a husband-and-wife team examining sexual bias in schools through research based on transcripts of classroom interactions, textbooks, surveys and polls.
In 1972, she was a member of the American team that finished third in the World Team Olympiad.
In 1972, she was a member of the American team that finished third in the World Team Olympiad.
Her 14 second-place results included all three major national team championships, the Spingold Knockout in 1944, the Board-a-Match in 1953 and the Vanderbilt Knockout in 1954.
