Mrs. Bunting-Smith thought the system inequitable and worked to integrate the campuses more fully, even though it ultimately reduced the role of the Radcliffe president.
Even so, when the Salina town board named her to succeed her husband, Richard, as town justice after he was killed in a motorcycle accident in 1971, there were those who thought she did not belong on the bench.
''
        Known as a compassionate and effective analyst who interpreted more than 65,000 dreams, she lectured widely in the United States and elsewhere, all the while insisting that the goal of the Jungian thought was not to become a Jungian but one's own unique self.
A flamboyant, warmhearted woman who listed her hobbies in Who's Who as ''playing with children and animals,'' Lady Lestor relished adversarial politics and was not shy about telling people what she thought, in the plainest possible language.
''I never thought of painting as a career,'' she once said.
I thought, wouldn't it be wonderful to be independent.
I thought, wouldn't it be wonderful to be independent.
When the dirty-minded executives could not find a single woman who thought the line had any smutty connotation, Miss Polykoff was not surprised.
''I thought you needed this,'' she told Mr. Matthiessen as she handed him an orange and departed, leaving him to marvel, as he still does, that it was exactly what he needed.
''We thought we were going to be the greatest writers in the world,'' she told The Los Angeles Times in 1995.
She was thought to be doing well but then developed pneumonia, she said.
She took to the podium and conducted symphony orchestras in the United States, Canada and Japan, offering music she thought children would like, especially the sounds of Beethoven, Bizet, Mozart and Stravinsky.
When she was a girl, her father thought he heard a voice coming out of a closet in the Hurwitz's apartment.
She had been a regular contributor to the Met but had not thought of financing a production until it was suggested to her by friends on the Met's board.
''If someone had told me what would be happening to me today,'' she said after the Democrats nominated Humphrey for President in 1968, ''well, it would have been an awful thing to have thought of.
''If someone had told me what would be happening to me today,'' she said after the Democrats nominated Humphrey for President in 1968, ''well, it would have been an awful thing to have thought of.
I would have been horrified to have thought of this.
''They thought it was only a question of a few months and she made it 10 years.
Miss Hickson took to her late television career with relish, saying she thought that Miss Marple was a ''splendid'' person because there was ''nothing you could say or do that would shock her.
''My Aunt Aggie -- she was about four feet tall -- drew herself up to her full height and said, 'What is Joan's destination to be?,' which she thought was the gutter, you see,'' she once recalled in an interview.
''Even into her old age, everyone thought she was a charming, lovely little woman,'' her daughter said.
''
        Franchot Tone, an actor whose work Miss Dalrymple always admired, thought of her as ''the tenderest little lady.
Her success with their dream was such that when the center turned 50 in 1993 and called itself ''a glorious home for dance, music, opera and dozens of extraordinary musicals and plays,'' there were many who thought the phrase an understatement of what Miss Dalrymple had accomplished.
But even in those days, she thought of writing as secondary to her goal of becoming a stage director.
''
        In 1948, Miss Dalrymple thought she had scored a coup when she succeeded in getting Jean-Paul Sartre's permission to produce his play ''Les Mains Sales'' in an English adaptation by Daniel Taradash called ''Red Gloves.
Eventually a Slinky wound up under the Malsed Christmas tree, where according to family legend, 6-year-old Fredrick thought to ask, ''I wonder what this could do with wheels?
She considered a career as a choreographer, but in 1934 she married Laurence Sinclair Foster, a charming stockbroker and gambler  whom she later described as a philistine ''who thought Omar Khayyam was a curry.
For two decades, she presided over television talk shows including ''Food for Thought'' from 1956 to 1961; ''Girl Talk'' (1963-69); and ''The Virginia Graham Show''(1970-72).
She looked for the thousands of dogs and cats abandoned every year by people who, having tired of their pets, thought not of bringing them to an animal shelter but of leaving them in a cemetery.
When she was in her 70's, everybody thought she was in her 50's.
Her friends thought, however, that there were cousins.
She was outspoken with her ideas and comments and thought nothing of castigating a client if she felt that a play was worthy of improvement.
'' When the playwright asked what she thought of it, she offered  frank criticism.
