"
        Khrushchev was understandably restrained when Mrs. Smith, a consistent advocate of a strong military, criticized President John F. Kennedy because she thought he lacked the will to use nuclear weapons and concluded that such restraint weakened America's struggle against the Soviet Union.
When Mr. Khrushchev heard of Mrs. Smith's stance, he said he thought it had beaten "all records of savagery.
And in all this his thought was already vigorous and well forged.
And the hand or finger, sweeping down the page, was used to "pace" the eyes at increasingly faster speeds, while the reader was urged to concentrate not on single words but on groups of words -- sentences, clauses and the like -- that make up units of thought.
"They thought I belonged in college," she said.
"I think my mother must have thought that eventually perhaps I would get enough education to be self-sustaining and to do something comfortable, perhaps housework.
"I thought she hung the  moon.
"Vivian would suggest  things she had thought out for Miss Adelaide to do.
She at first thought of becoming an artist and for a time studied sculpture with Brancusi in Paris.
In 1986, on the 50th anniversary of the sale of Margaret Mitchell's novel to the movies, Mrs. Barrett recalled that when she told Mr. Selznick she thought the book was "absolutely wonderful," he replied, "A Civil War story won't go.
She graduated with honors from Dorchester High School at 15, and wanted to enter Wellesley College, but her parents thought she was too young and enrolled her at the Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart in Purchase, N.Y. She was also sent to Blumenthal Academy, a finishing school run by German nuns, in the Netherlands, where girls majored in French and German.
She graduated with honors from Dorchester High School at 15, and wanted to enter Wellesley College, but her parents thought she was too young and enrolled her at the Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart in Purchase, N.Y. She was also sent to Blumenthal Academy, a finishing school run by German nuns, in the Netherlands, where girls majored in French and German.
They chose a male pseudonym because they thought that female authors were not taken seriously.
