In 1995 she took part in the opening of a memorial garden at the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, London, with a granite monument commemorating the victims, and in 1993 she appeared in public in Southampton to receive a gold watch thought to be her father's from the head of the American company that had salvaged it from the wreckage.
''I was young and I thought it was romantic to smoke opium,'' she told The Washington Post.
I never thought, 'Now I'm here, I want to go there or do that.
Nobody's ever thought that I didn't want to marry.
Mourners thought they were witnessing his burial in the family plot next to his previous wife, Marie.
Dr. Lawrence Bogorad, the Maria Moors Cabot Professor of Biology emeritus at Harvard University, said the alterations that Dr. Sager achieved ''in the way people thought about extranuclear genetic material, that is, genes in the cell outside the nucleus,'' had proved to be highly significant.
''We imagined the landscaping and the not-yet-built tennis court,'' Ms. Kravis said, ''and thought what it might be like to walk through the house and out to play tennis.
Listen, I've given my money away, where I thought it would help, but I don't want 'yes' people around me.
And I had watched and admired Julia Child on TV, and suddenly I thought, 'I could do that with plants.
''I never danced for an audience that I thought was unworthy of my performance,'' she once declared.
''
        Mrs. Smith evidently decided to step down when she did because she thought that the question of whether a moderate or a conservative was to succeed her should be resolved as soon as possible so that the party could begin getting ready for the 1978 Congressional and 1980 Presidential elections.
Although she agreed at first, she later declined after conferring with her husband, Ray, a retired Detroit police commander who thought the deed might be illegal.
''I thought she led many other lives and was opaque about telling us about them,'' Mr. Durang said.
''I guess I always had an enormous need to show him I wasn't the dope he thought I was.
She first covered Senator Humphrey's campaign, but when he lost the West Virginia primary to Mr. Kennedy and dropped out of the primary, she covered Senator Lyndon Johnson all the way to the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles in July of 1960, where he became Mr. Kennedy's running mate,
        Later that year, CBS gave her own weekday radio show, ''One Woman's Washington,'' in which she discussed Washington topics that she thought might be of interest to women around the country.
''We do not believe it is necessary to restrict freedom of thought in order to overcome discrimination.
''You're not as bad as I thought you'd be,'' Mr. Clinton told her.
She acknowledged that she has ''been doing more on the opinion side'' than she thought she would when President Clinton named her to the Federal bench in 1994.
