Neither revealed her age, but most people thought they were in their 80's.
Then the Nazis seized his factory (he didn't pay his taxes, they claimed), and  Miss Kiesler left him (she thought he was dull) and made her way to London.
''I remember saying to my family that I thought if I were a man I might try for a job in city government,'' she said in her oral history.
It presented the worried views of observers from many vantage points of the present state of American life, art and thought.
Then I thought I must try to understand her heart, enter completely into her mentality and find what is most real and sincere in myself.
She always thought there was a solution to every problem, there was a way of dealing with reality that could really turn the thing around.
In addition to overseeing a construction and props budget, she ensured that period details were correct, right down to the drab, cheap curtains she had specially printed for ''The Prince and the Showgirl,'' starring Olivier and Marilyn Monroe, and the tankards she thought appropriate for a wine shop during the Terror in ''A Tale of Two Cities.
Many thought the agency would close, but Mrs. Holt took over, traveling endlessly.
Biala's first exhibition was at the Passedoit Gallery in Manhattan in 1936, by which point, it is thought, she had already taken the name of her birthplace.
And I would see writers get absolutely crazed with anxiety because they'd have to write a scene overnight, and the next morning we'd have to rehearse it, and I thought: 'This is an inhuman system.
''If you had worked years to do it, if you believed in it, if you thought great things were going to come out of it -- great in terms of the position of women in our culture, position of women in jobs, position of women everywhere -- and this was going to improve that .
Sue Ryder, who once thought that she would become a nun, married a young naval officer at 18.
''I was doing some improvisation about Texas, and she asked me if I had ever thought about writing, which I hadn't,'' he recalled.
She once said in an interview: ''I didn't know I was doing film noir, I thought they were detective stories with low lighting!
She thought it was wrong to even acknowledge someone's blindness, much less call attention to it.
She recognized that her eyesight was deteriorating when she thought light bulbs needed to be changed when they didn't.
