''As always, the camera sees the past -- all it can see -- and here it speaks of a symmetry of action and thought and a revolution based on empirical common sense, when in truth these people watch the television news for the event on Wall Street, in Washington or Korea that will affect the price of fertilizer and crops,'' he wrote.
''I thought people had a sense of humor.
As a young woman, she preferred taking part in amateur theatrical productions and even thought of becoming a surgeon, an ambition nipped by her father before it was even a bud.
As a young woman, she preferred taking part in amateur theatrical productions and even thought of becoming a surgeon, an ambition nipped by her father before it was even a bud.
''Oh, I thought you were an older man,'' Mr. Meyerowitz said to Ms. Bernstein, who was then probably 29.
John Hocevar, executive director of Students for a Free Tibet, said she became ill with what were thought to be stomach problems, and her heart failed.
She thought that the discussion of love was central to sex education, and that spanking could only make the child feel as bad as the angry parent.
She would ask questions about what you thought of particular phrases -- where the top of the phrase was, and so on.
In recent years, there were niggling criticisms of the queen mother: that she was a bon vivant who spent far beyond her means; that she kept too many houses and employed too many servants and generally thought too much of her own comfort.
But the queen mother thought it delightful.
They returned to Brooklyn with their two children, and she wrote that she thought of herself as ''one of those furtive, silly housewives with a novel under her apron.
''She thought they were wrong.
In Shanghai, she taught what was thought to be the first yoga class in modern China, Mr. Ruiz said.
''It seems so obvious now, but back in the 70's most New Yorkers who controlled book promotion thought the West Coast was like Antarctica,'' said Stuart Applebaum, a spokesman for Random House Inc.
As given in the book ''Harper's Bazaar: 100 Years of the American Female'' (Random House, 1967), they were: ''authority, awareness, wit, spirit, surprise, curiosity, intelligence, timing, food for thought, vitality, balance and youth.
''I thought it was unreasonable to expect the city to cut a major artery and detour traffic through narrow streets,'' Mr. Koch said, ''but she proved her goal was not unrealistic.
Much of her work, done when foreign policy was made by men who thought women had no place in the world of diplomacy, revealed deep knowledge of history inflected by the experience of living through some of the most turbulent events of an epochal century.
But that he loved me and thought me capable of anything and everything there was never any doubt.
''I thought it was a good column, but not great,'' Mrs. Lederer recalled in a 1990 interview.
''I thought it was a good column, but not great,'' Mrs. Lederer recalled in a 1990 interview.
Much of her work, done when foreign policy was made by men who thought women had no place in the world of diplomacy, revealed deep knowledge of history inflected by the experience of living through some of the most turbulent events of an epochal century.
'' From the instant that Ms. Clooney heard it she thought it was dreadful and told Mr. Miller she would not sing it but He insisted.
From the instant that Ms. Clooney heard it she thought it was dreadful and told Mr. Miller she would not sing it, but he insisted, hinting broadly that if she refused, her career at Columbia might come to an end.
Mrs. Marshall's anthropological career began when her husband, Laurence K. Marshall, a founder and president of the Raytheon Corporation, retired in 1950 with the thought that it was time to get reacquainted with his family.
In 1949, she left The New York World-Telegram after an argument with its owner, Roy W. Howard, who thought she was paying too much attention to artists he considered ''Communists and left-wingers,'' like Pablo Picasso.
In 1949, she left The New York World-Telegram after an argument with its owner, Roy W. Howard, who thought she was paying too much attention to artists he considered ''Communists and left-wingers,'' like Pablo Picasso.
She did not seem to care what people thought when, after years of playing well-to-do places for well-to-do crowds, she also took the stage at clubs like CBGB, on the Bowery, accompanied by the kitchen-drawer percussion of a man called Mr. Spoons, otherwise known as Joseph Jones Jr., whom Ms. Hellman put up in her town house after his third wife left him.
Ms. Lipton thought this indicated that school officials regarded disabled students as freaks, Arlene Mayerson, a lawyer for the Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund, said.
''She personally thought someone's hand caressing your face was more erotic than sex itself.
''I thought it was the man who was coming to photograph my home for Town and Country,'' she said in an interview in The New York Times.
''
        If it all sounded like a movie, that is exactly what the Walt Disney Company thought.
''She never thought for a moment of not working with people who didn't agree with her ideologically.
''I thought, uh-oh, here we go again,'' she said.
''Tennessee sat way in the back and when he had a thought about something, he'd write a note and come down to where we were working, reach over and tuck the note into Kazan's coat pocket,'' Ms. Hunter said.
''I thought it was a damned interesting script and a challenge for all of us,'' she said.
She answered questions many readers had never thought to ask, including how to cook a meal for 76 children.
Many people thought women should not dive at all because it would injure their health.
Ms. Doerr was asked to read several of her poems at high school graduation, but would not allow the school to reproduce them because she thought they were awful.
''We didn't know what it was, so one time we thought we'd stop and find out.
Miss Dawn never stopped hating the name, which she thought made her sound like a stripper.
