When the band struck up ''God Save the King,'' she thought it meant that an English rival had won.
''As the body of her work has enlarged, one comes to understand it not just as a series of extraordinary insights into suffering and thought, but as a mighty exploration of human consciousness and its context in the natural world,'' the American Academy of Arts and Letters citation read when she was made an honorary foreign member in 1986.
''I thought I'd never be dry,'' she recalled in ''Tales of Gold.
In an industry more accustomed to flattery and sympathetic reviews, she possessed a rare nerve, upbraiding fashion executives when she thought they were dissembling and beseeching designers to be better than they were.
''I would have thought people would find it rather dull, but they still seem fascinated,'' Ms. Partridge said in 1994, speaking of the events surrounding the ménage.
Craig Brown, a British critic who reviewed her fifth and penultimate volume of daily journals, ''Diaries: 1939-1972'' (2001), thought that the story went on a bit.
Vogue reported that ''at 16 or so, black-eyed, confident and competent beyond her years,'' she married Fritz Mannheimer, a Dutch banker and, like Mr. Engelhard, thought to be one of the world's richest men.
Dr. Rhoda Fisher's dismay over books about parenting that she thought lacked scientific merit led her and her husband, who died in 1996, to collaborate on ''What We Really Know About Child Rearing: Science in Support of Effective Parenting'' (Basic Books, 1976).
They thought he'd analyze their food.
''I guess I always thought of her as a tragic figure,'' the former baseball commissioner Fay Vincent told The Associated Press.
But Mrs. Lindsay thought designer gowns were a waste of money and bought her clothes off the shelf in department stores.
Mrs. Lindsay told The Post in 1965 that she first thought Mr. Lindsay was ''horrid'' because he did not pay any attention to her.
She at first thought she would devote herself to being a homemaker.
''I thought it would be glorious,'' she said to The Post.
She thought of her Aunt Sarah, ''a very nice, lonely person in our family,'' she said later, and a genre was born.
Before Ms. Courtenay-Latimer's discovery, the coelacanth was thought to have been extinct for at least 70 million years.
Fourteen years ago, she began suffering increasingly serious bouts of what she thought was influenza but was later labeled an autoimmune blood disorder.
Part of the challenge is to keep the black squares symmetrical, a tradition started by Mrs. Farrar because she thought they looked pretty that way.
While studying there her uncle gave her a camera, and it led her to abandon sculpture for photography, primarily because she thought she might earn a living.
In books including ''I Thought I Heard the City'' and ''Sam's Place: Poems From the Country,'' she explored her own childhood memories and wrote about the joy of finding beauty in familiar and unexpected places.
Doctors and medical students called the episode a hallucination, but Dr. Kübler-Ross thought it merited further investigation, and she began to an effort to verify existence after death.
She could be possessive and domineering, especially toward the photographers whose work she thought would outlast her articles published with them; the words she compared to ice cubes that melted in the sun.
''
        She thought that might be too confusing, said Mr. McKay, who was host at the dinner.
Russell Morash, who became her producer, recalled the sight: ''I thought to myself: Who is this madwoman cooking an omelet on a book-review program?
Many were English (she thought French girls too short), and classically trained dancers grown too tall for ballet.
When I heard you'd broken it, I thought about showing it like that in the picture.
'' She said she thought of writing as therapy.
''We thought someday when we fall off our perches, we wanted our art in a place like the National Gallery, which is open to the public and free of charge,'' Mrs. Meyerhoff said in an interview last year.
It was as Giselle that she made her American debut with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1938, giving a performance that was thought to set a standard for any other dancer attempting the part.
But what she considered cautiousness, some critics thought complacency.
''
        Though she thought of herself as a novelist, it was through her essays that Ms. Sontag became known.
Suzuki at Columbia, she became interested in Asian thought, not as a religious discipline, but as a code of ethics, a practical how-to for getting through life.
