''If she thought her nose was too long, I would make a hat with a brim and pull it down so you couldn't see the nose so much.
Grace Houghton, whose Vestal Press of Vestal, N.Y., is to publish Ms. Bellamy's autobiography, ''Darling of the Twenties,'' next month, said that the actress thought her best film was the 1928 adaptation of an Edna Ferber story, ''Mother Knows Best.
Friendly Competitiveness
        Miss Craske was thought by many to have influenced Tudor's choreographic style, though she herself dismissed the notion.
''She never thought like other people,'' Mrs. Elias said.
Asked why she never resumed acting, she thought for a moment, smiled nonchalantly and replied, ''I guess that's because I have always had a privileged life.
Like Mona Lisa
        ''I never thought of myself as a beautiful woman,'' she told an interviewer four years ago.
''She told me she thought: 'I've got to do something,' '' he said.
Between 1962 and 1976 she achieved international recognition for her research in the genetics of early mammalian development and the first definition of mammalian sperm surface structures, which were thought to control sperm development and fertilization.
She was disturbed to see this quality going out of show business, and she sometimes talked of forming a troupe - she still thought of it as a vaudeville act long after there were no more vaudeville theaters where it could play - through which she could instill the old discipline of trouping in-promising young performers.
'' with Cab Calloway, Miss Bailey said she thought of herself as a singer and not an actress.
She was disturbed to see this quality going out of show business, and she sometimes talked of forming a troupe - she still thought of it as a vaudeville act long after there were no more vaudeville theaters where it could play - through which she could instill the old discipline of trouping in promising young performers.
They are thought to have derived their name from a belief that shaking from religious fervor was a manifestation of inner spiritual experience.
She admitted that she had not, and when Mrs. Spewack asked her why she thought she could do it, she answered boldly, "Try me.
