Mrs. Manz said she originally thought of it as TOP.
"Nothing I had written before 'Mary Poppins' had anything to do with children, and I have always assumed, when I thought about it at all, that she had come out of the same wall of nothingness as the poetry, myth and legend that had absorbed me all my writing life," she wrote in 1978.
"
        Some critics thought Miss Toumanova acquired annoying mannerisms.
She knew she would die, but she didn't want to know  how long doctors thought she might live.
"I thought my singing was pretty much hollering," she recalled many years later, "but Webb didn't.
"I thought be-bop was 'it,' and that all I had to do was go someplace  and sing bop.
Over the more than three decades that she wrote nonfiction, Miss Mitford railed against those who tried to suppress dissent over the Vietnam War, against a prison system she found to be corrupt and brutalizing, and against a medical profession she thought was greedy and given to unnecessary procedures.
''I thought of myself as a writer, not an organizer, but Catherine kept emphasizing that what was needed was outside pressure on the Government.
Dr. Beutler said he first encountered Mrs. Morton about two decades ago, when she sent him a plant that she thought might have some applications to cancer treatment.
She also wrote ''The Beginning of the Journey'' (Harcourt Brace, 1993), sometimes a memoir, sometimes an apologia, often a long letter of rebuke to those who thought of her as little more than a sidekick to the scholar with whom she lived for 46 years.
'' She said that the best academic minds had drifted into esoteric specialization and she assailed multiculturalism as ''our present-day version of Stalinism -- a culture of moral virtue without thought.
''She looked Caucasian and rented studio space that landlords would not rent to a person they thought was black,'' Ms. Jamison wrote.
From 1972 until two years ago, she was an editor of Judaism: A Quarterly Journal of Jewish Life and Thought, published by the American Jewish Congress.
In reality, the researchers thought just the opposite; they used their testing and research techniques ''as a measure of individuality, not conformity,'' he said.
''
        Beginning in the 1930's, Mary Leakey and her late husband, Louis, awakened the world to Africa's primary place in human origins with their spectacular discoveries and increasingly pushed back the time of those origins much earlier than had been thought.
At the time, the discovery established that human ancestors had begun walking upright much earlier than previously thought, long before the evolution of larger brains.
