"I've always thought people who are on, offstage, save very little for onstage," she said in 1976.
"I've always thought people who are
        on
        , offstage, save very little for onstage," she said in 1976.
She married a singer in the trio Los Tropicuba; after her first performance, he said he thought she was having an epileptic fit.
Because she thought of a future in English-language theater, Miss Picon drifted into the cross-country vaudeville circuits, where she perfected her timing and her uncanny instinct for audience response.
Perhaps the best description of her face was provided by Erich Maria Remarque, her longtime friend, in his novel "Arch of Triumph":
        "The cool, bright face that didn't ask for anything, that simply existed, waiting -- it was an empty face, he thought; a face that could change with any wind of expression.
And thus, in their own one-minded way, they have spent time and thought and money on the problems of how to protect oysters from the suckers and the borers and the starvers, until now it is comparatively easy to eat this two-valved mollusk anywhere, without thought of the dangers it has run in its few years.
And thus, in their own one-minded way, they have spent time and thought and money on the problems of how to protect oysters from the suckers and the borers and the starvers, until now it is comparatively easy to eat this two-valved mollusk anywhere, without thought of the dangers it has run in its few years.
I've always thought of women as kissable, cuddly and smelling good.
Modern genetics has known no figure quite like Dr. McClintock, who worked alone and chose not to publish some of her revolutionary observations for years, explaining later that she thought no one would accept the findings.
J. R. S. Fincham of Edinburgh, Scotland, writing in the Aug. 20 issue of Nature, a British science journal, said that Dr. McClintock's "solitary style of work, total independence of thought and extraordinary record of getting things right have elevated her to the status of a prophet in the eyes of some.
"She thought the men were too slow," Miss Bond said.
"Woe to those who thought this woman old and frail," said Mayor Dinkins, who was greeted by a standing ovation when he went to the pulpit.
"I had a cancer operation and then I had a major heart attack," she told an interviewer, "and they must really have thought, 'This old girl can't go on much longer.
