''Susan was so terrified at the thought of being rejected that she declined to read at all,'' Mr. Bloomgarden had said in an interview.
Sadie Delany always thought of herself as a ''colored woman'' or, if one insisted on labels, a Negro.
''They thought we were running a fast house!
Reviewing ''Cleansed,'' Benedict Nightingale of The Times of London wrote: ''She is not the gloating opportunist that some reviewers of 'Blasted' thought.
In Books, Happiness And Moral Lessons
        Far from viewing fiction as another and lesser way of dealing with philosophical questions, Miss Murdoch argued that literature was meant ''to be grasped by enjoyment,'' and that the art of the tale was ''a fundamental form of thought'' in its own right.
While she expressed no lasting allegiance to his school of thought, she said her studies with him  spurred her development as a writer.
It was a particularly heady time for anyone concerned with the study and application of philosophical thought; new schools of philosophy were contending for primacy and often combative works were being produced to define these emerging disciplines.
Her first published work, ''Sartre: Romantic Rationalist'' (1953), was a serious, clear explanation of existentialism and its place in contemporary thought.
'' Ms. Gordon then quotes Mr. Bayley's memoir: ''In early days, I always thought it would be vulgar -- as well as not my place -- to give any indications of jealousy, but she knew when it was there, and she soothed it just by being the self she always was with me, which I soon knew to be wholly and entirely different from any way that she was with other people.
''One night we thought we were being raided, but it was only the cops arriving to escort Mike to the bank.
Others thought it boring and lifeless.
In 1908, when Felicia was a golden-haired, blue-eyed toddler, The New York Times reported that she had been ''kidnapped in London by the Count,'' who ''is thought to be either in Vienna or St. Petersburg and has concealed the child.
I thought I'd go nuts so I started readings at Westport, moving the tractors and Ping-Pong table from the barn.
''It had been thought that picking up a baby spoiled it and led to more crying.
She turned aside all offers to buy the business or to take it public, disliking the thought of being accountable to shareholders as much as that of dealing with trade unions.
'' as a favor to the director for casting her in ''Beetlejuice'' as a chain-smoking ghoul, a role she thought was ''great,'' said John Springer, her friend and publicist.
''Who would have thought Kim Perrot would be a two-time W.N.B.A.
An artist who wrote poems about pottery and made pots inspired by her reading, Ms. Richards was perhaps best known for ''Centering in Pottery, Poetry and the Person,'' a book of essays published in the middle of the tumultuous 1960's that was impressive for its synthesis of thought, plain speech and incantatory momentum.
The work reflected both the artist's long-standing interest in Asian art and thought, and her commitment to the spiritual implications of Western modernist art.
When she auditioned for a part in ''Champion,'' she thought she would be right for the role of the fighter's gold-digging floozy and accordingly wore a tight-fitting black dress and heavy makeup when she swivel-hipped into Stanley Kramer's office.
''Actually, I thought of you for the other girl,'' said Mr. Kramer, then serving as the film's producer.
She drew fire from liberals who accused her of practicing thought control and perpetuating many of the strict travel regulations imposed in the most bitter days of the cold war.
Sometimes she designated everyday activities like thought, conversation or marijuana smoking as art, attracted by the idea that they were unsaleable and democratic.
I thought I was in the wrong place because he played everything but the keys on the piano.
