Sometimes people thought her questions were off the wall, but other times, she hit them right in the eye.
''Many a president thought he could change the subject by calling on Sarah and lived to regret it,'' said Michael D. McCurry, press secretary for President Bill Clinton.
Remembering the glories of her youth in an interview with The Los Angeles Daily News in 1999, Miss Trout said, ''People thought we were nuts.
The female impersonator who first led it thought the name LaBeija seemed glamorous.
I thought you were going to be tiny.
''I thought being a girl was really the bunk,'' she said in an interview.
But I thought, 'That girl is rather interesting.
For most of her life, the public thought she had never married.
I thought of myself first, and that's a pig, isn't it?
As Ms. Fowler intermittently spun out the story of her life, friends in the Y's steam room at first thought it implausible.
''We all thought she was exaggerating,'' Elizabeth Crann she said.
''
        Ms. Fowler, as a result, always thought she was the inspiration for Alfred Hitchcock's 1944 movie, although her book was a published a month after the release of ''Lifeboat.
The owner's son Henry Koch flirted with her, but she thought he was married.
''But when I began to sing with La Sonora Matancera, I thought, 'This is my chance, and I'm going to do it.
''I thought of it as a street cry,'' she told The Times in 1980.
Although American by birth, The Independent of London reported, she was British in thought and interest.
The club was an immediate success, but its name, the Body Shop, caused confusion: People thought it was an auto-repair business.
''The bizarre thought disorders in schizophrenia, especially the inability to keep a train of thought from being derailed, could be due to a defect in working memory,'' she noted.
''The bizarre thought disorders in schizophrenia, especially the inability to keep a train of thought from being derailed, could be due to a defect in working memory,'' she noted.
In her hotel, she stepped on what she thought was a secure balcony, fell through the floor and landed in the dining room below.
''Everyone thought the war was over,'' she later explained, and in that spirit I sent the cable to Hitler.
''I looked like Chicken Little in it, and I thought I was the cat's meow.
But after she swam 23 miles in 8 hours 43 minutes, the people in a boat who were supposed to look after her thought she might be unconscious in the water.
Ms. Gustafson was tea's ambassador at a time when diners sipped French roast and other strong coffees but thought tea was limited to Lipton.
Dr. Bates thought all development, including the acquisition of language, rested on a foundation of general mental abilities.
