''I also dared the fleeting thought that among all these masculine forms perhaps I would find a husband.
From that moment, I thought I should spread the gospel.
''Star Man's Son'' was the relatively late start of Ms. Norton's science fiction career; until then, she had mainly been a novelist writing juvenile historical fiction and adventure stories, under the pen name Andre Norton, chosen because her readers were thought to be exclusively boys
        At the time, the market for science-fiction was largely confined to magazines, but with the growth of the genre in book form after 1950, Ms. Norton took the field by storm.
''
        She originally thought of her character as a girl bandit, but was talked into making her a reporter by an aide to Joseph Medill Patterson, founder and publisher of The Daily News of New York and head of The Chicago Tribune-New York News Syndicate.
''She thought to put in perfumed candles and potpourri at the entrances so that when people walked in, they got this wonderful aroma.
''I just thought, 'You little male chauvinist, you,' and I went to it.
When Ms. Laredo went to Serkin to ask if he thought she could handle the Rachmaninoff, he gave his blessing.
''
        At the time, it was only the fourth expedition to reach the top, and Annapurna is now thought to be one of the most dangerous of the world's 8,000-meter mountains, a class that includes Everest.
''
        Mr. Hope thought of her as one of his three gypsies -- entertainers who were willing, like him, to travel all over the globe to entertain the troops.
I remember she told me when she became head coach at Stephen F. Austin she was making $6,500 a year and she thought she'd hit the lottery.
Although the prime minister joked about it, she later said she thought that he resented being upstaged and felt threatened by her popularity.
But she was not timid about assailing President Bush when she thought he was not funneling enough resources to sustain those standards.
''I thought if I were 10 years younger, I would love to do it,'' she told People magazine in 1987.
A decade later, she studied with Yehezkel Streichman and Avigdor Stematsky, who started their own school because they thought Israeli art schools were too conservative.
In later years, when Lore thought of boarding the train, she had ''no clear recollection'' of her father's being there.
As Laura Shapiro, the author of ''Something From the Oven: Reinventing Dinner in 1950's America'' (Viking, 2004), said in a telephone interview yesterday:
        ''Stove Top made it possible to have the stuffing without the turkey, probably something no cook would ever have dreamed of but people eating Thanksgiving dinner might well have thought of: 'Take away everything else; just leave me here with the stuffing!
When one asked her about her relationships with men, whom Ms. Arango's art often portrayed in a less-than-positive light, she said, ''Men never thought much of me, and I never thought much of them, either.
When one asked her about her relationships with men, whom Ms. Arango's art often portrayed in a less-than-positive light, she said, ''Men never thought much of me, and I never thought much of them, either.
