She also respected the individuality of her children, keeping each in a separate school until one year, after attending five separate Christmas pageants, she said, ''I thought if I heard one more 'Silent Night' I would break down.
She graduated from the University of the Pacific in Stockton, Calif.
        She thought briefly about moving to San Francisco.
''But then, I thought, I couldn't go to the opera or a play every night and I'd get tired of shopping,'' she said in an interview with The Modesto Bee in 1996.
''I thought my friends are more important, and I've always been glad that I stayed.
Her performance wowed the members of the audience, who thought it was a comedy routine.
When asked in a CBS television interview in 1998 whether she thought it was all right to be stared at, she snapped back, ''If you're paid for it, yeah.
About two years later, Mrs. Nauts went to the medical director of Dr. Coley's hospital and said she thought that her father's work deserved reappraisal.
Mr. Geach, her husband and sometime collaborator, a professor of philosophy at the University of Birmingham and University of Leeds, put it this way: ''She thought that a theory of ethics without a theory of mind was bound to be bogus.
She somehow thought they would be safer, and went up to the 10th floor, where their offices were, to find out.
But they thought they were better than the working people.
''My friends and family thought I was crazy,'' she said.
At first Miss Gow  thought Lindbergh had taken his son from the crib for a joke, Mrs. Lindbergh continued, adding poignantly, ''I did, until I saw his face.
'' Some friends said they thought Mrs. Lindbergh had written the book at least partly to please her husband, who at that time was an ardent advocate of the United States' staying out of the war.
A. Scott Berg's 1998 biography of her husband, ''Lindbergh'' (Putnam), which drew on previously inaccessible family papers provided by Mrs. Lindbergh, showed that she was more aware of the flaws in Charles Lindbergh's character than had been thought.
I too thought that the baby was safely asleep in his crib.
The producer of a television remake of ''A Letter to Three Wives'' thought it would be a great marketing ploy to get one of the original stars, Jeanne Crain or Ms. Sothern, to play a cameo role.
At the time male nurses were drafted as enlisted men but were forbidden to be commissioned with their female counterparts because the Army thought that nursing was for women only.
I was working in every phase of it and I thought, 'Maybe I ought to do this for a little while,' and I was caught up in it.
She was also the touring lighting designer and technical director for City Ballet as well as American Ballet Theater and Jerome Robbins's  Ballets: U.S.A. She is thought to have been the first American stage manager to work on programs at the Paris Opera, Rome Opera and La Scala.
I was working in every phase of it, and I thought, 'Maybe I ought to do this for a little while,' and I was caught up in it.
When Katharine was 16, no one thought to tell her that her father had bid $825,000 at public auction to buy the bankrupt Washington Post, a paper with a circulation of 50,000 that was losing a million dollars a year, the fifth newspaper in a five-newspaper town.
''I was so upset about this, and I thought: I live down here where this happened and I believe I must know what a person like that felt like -- the murderer.
When he told her he sold newspapers, she thought he owned a kiosk or hawked newspapers as a street vendor.
The differences can show up in the types and quantities of drugs doctors prescribe, the kinds and numbers of operations performed, even what blood pressure levels are thought to require treatment.
Among Dr. Calloway's conclusions was that Americans did not need as much protein as had been thought.
During her run as one of television's early stars, she told an interviewer she thought she was becoming Dagmar.
She thought Mr. Pejoski had flair.
''I've always had the ability, ever since I can remember, to see and hear people who are thought of as dead,'' she said in an interview with Newsweek.
She always declined to ask her musical visitors the questions that outsiders thought would prove their existence.
The light streamed through a rippled north window, the sort of light she thought Rembrandt liked.
The Campanellis had long thought that a ghost inhabited Flying Witch Farm: that of Mary Insley Hunt, a member of the family that long owned the place.
