He thought she should breed them.
And I thought the whole point was that we wouldn't feel stranded.
I thought the point was that we were all in this together.
''My work is often thought of as lightweight commercial comedy,'' she told The Paris Review in 1997, ''and I have always thought, No, you don't understand: this is in fact a political act.
''My work is often thought of as lightweight commercial comedy,'' she told The Paris Review in 1997, ''and I have always thought, No, you don't understand: this is in fact a political act.
''They thought I'd marry a lawyer.
''
        The conductor Erich Leinsdorf thought that her longevity, like Flagstad's, had something to do with her Scandinavian heritage, remarking that Wagner required ''thoughtful, patient and methodical people.
'' After a disagreement with the Australian soprano Joan Sutherland, Ms. Nilsson was asked if she thought Ms. Sutherland's famous bouffant hairdo was real.
Mrs. King thought she was signing on for the ministry, not ground zero in the seismic cultural struggle that would soon shake the South.
''
        In a 1989 interview with The Times, Miss Lewis said: ''As a child in Virginia, I thought all food tasted delicious.
Richard Weight, a British historian who is making a documentary about interracial marriage, said: ''For a lot of people, it drew the line between those who thought Britain had an integrated postcolonial future and those who didn't.
When the Sadler's Wells Ballet made its sensational United States debut at the Metropolitan Opera House in September 1949, ticket buyers knew Ms. Shearer from ''The Red Shoes'' and thought she would be seen in ''The Sleeping Beauty'' on opening night.
They had no thought for the unfeminine problems of the world outside the home; they wanted the men to make the major decisions.
Ms. Caldwell was generally thought to be more gifted as a director.
She was an accomplished cook who thought that good ingredients could speak for themselves.
(She was not related to the actress Jean Stapleton, as many people have thought.
As a scholar of medieval medicine, she found that early medical treatises often included descriptions of food thought to be curative.
And in at least five fields of inquiry, she thought deeply and innovatively: urban design, urban history, regional economics, the morality of the economy and the nature of economic growth.
Ms. Jacobs herself thought the book's continuing appeal was that it plumbed the depths of human nature like a good novel.
She kept the name Spark, partly for her son's sake and partly because she thought it had ''some ingredient of life and of fun.
''One thought I was looking for doghouses.
'' ''I was the only black model in Europe and I just thought I was an international person.
She thought she could succeed in modeling, and enrolled in the Dorothy Farrier Charm and Modeling School as its first black student.
''We thought nothing of it,'' she said.
''She never thought there should be any barriers for women,'' Monson said in a telephone interview yesterday.
''I don't think she ever thought of herself as a pioneer.
Servility to the invaders has poisoned democracy, with obvious consequences for the freedom of thought, and for the concept itself of liberty.
Mrs. Levine once said: ''My mother always thought a fine pair of shoes was a necessity.
Hélène Deschamps came from a military family, was a tomboy and hated the thought of the Nazis' taking over her country.
She said she thought that the federal government asserted too much claim to Western land and resources and intruded on personal liberties.
''I thought it was so glamorous,'' she recalled in a 1981 interview with The Washington Post.
She married him, or thought she did; he was already married.
At the time, candidates for medical licenses were observed by an examiner as they treated actual patients, a method that Dr. Levit thought was too subjective.

        Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, the Reagan administration's first United Nations ambassador and a beacon of neoconservative thought who helped guide American military, diplomatic and covert action from 1981 to 1985, died Thursday at her home in Bethesda, Md.
She changed her political affiliation after leaving the Reagan administration and thought hard about seeking the Republican nomination for president.
Though he won, she thought him too moderate to inherit the Reagan legacy.
''Here before me was indisputable evidence of what I had thought possible -- an intensely vital artist whose medium was photography.
