Her friend Ethel Barrymore thought the song was a lovely, serious one, but Miss Lillie made it a side-splitter, especially when she sang it garbed in a long formal gown, then raised her skirt and roller-skated off stage.
''Her thought process was very original,'' said Bill Blass, who became a friend of Mrs. Vreeland and her husband, who died in 1966.
Backer in 1932, because, Mrs. Schiff said, ''In those days, I thought it was important to be married, and since the substantial older ones had enough sense not to marry me, there wasn't much choice.
Critics noted that they thought alike and breathed alike.
''Miss Le Gallienne thought I was not serious enough in my approach to warrant my attendance at her school,'' Miss Davis recalled years later.
That last novel, which brought Miss McCarthy both a popular audience and a movie sale, enhanced her almost legendary reputation for enraging old friends and acquaintances who thought they saw themselves as the thinly disguised and gleefully skewered characters in her fiction.
''
        Miss McCarthy's bitter recollection continued: ''Two blocks away, my McCarthy grandparents, dwelling in sumptuous middle-class style, instilled in us the contrast between wealth and penury by occasional treats and vacations; it was thought beneficial that we should know we were orphans and fitted for a different destiny than our well-tended cousins.
Born in the village of Somorrostro on ''a day in December 1895,'' as she wrote in her autobiography, she went to school until she was 15, two years longer than required by law, because she was of delicate health and her parents thought she might become a teacher rather than a manual worker.
Always reluctant to give her age, Miss Anchutina was thought to be 73.
Reflecting poetically on the relationship between observation and intellect, vision and thought, Miss Swenson in 1963 closed a poem entitled ''Cabal'' this way:  Eye light and mind light,  lightning-taming leather  I will turn, and be  a swiftness on the dark.
