After a year of graduate school at the University of California at Berkeley, she spent several years traveling, including a trip alone through North Africa.
She then received a master of fine arts degree in 1975 from Columbia University, where she studied with Ronald Bladen and George Sugarman.
Based on Miss Bryant's 1994 book ''Here Comes the Showboat'' (University Press of Kentucky), hers was an idyllic life and one she was certainly born to.
A native of Berkeley, Calif., she graduated from Mills College in 1934 and completed graduate studies in art the next year at the Fogg Museum at Harvard University.
Mrs. Abelson, a native of Red Oak, Iowa, graduated in 1948 from the University of Iowa, where she majored in English.
During the 1950's, she worked as an advertising director for Cambridge University Press of New York.
Dr. Bain was born in St. Louis, received a bachelor's degree in 1920 from the University of Missouri and her medical degree in 1925 from Washington University in St. Louis.
Dr. Bain was born in St. Louis, received a bachelor's degree in 1920 from the University of Missouri and her medical degree in 1925 from Washington University in St. Louis.
Dr. Kestenberg, a professor emeritus at New York University Medical School, taught generations of psychiatrists, psychologists, psychoanalysts and other experts on development, mental health and dance-movement therapy.
Dr. Freund-Rosenthal, whose doctorate was in history from New York University, was known as Miriam K. Freund when she was Hadassah's president.
She taught in the New York City public school system for a decade and a half until the early 1940's, and was prominent in fund-raising for the founding of Brandeis University, which opened in 1948.
In addition, before joining the Barnard faculty as an instructor in 1938, she taught at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and was a research assistant at the Yale University Institute of Human Relations, at Columbia, and at the International Institute of Social Research in New York.
Before joining the education faculty at Harvard University in September, Dr. Hawkins established her reputation through her work as director of the Center for Children and Technology, an agency founded in 1981 by the Bank Street College of Education in New York.
Jan Hawkins was born in New Canaan, Conn., and received her bachelor's degree in psychology and English from Tufts University in 1973.
She received a master's degree in psychology and a doctorate in developmental psychology from the Graduate Center of the City University of New York in 1987.
She was an editor of professional journals and at Cambridge University Press, dealing with its ''Learning by Doing'' series.
Next, she taught chemistry and physics in the New York City school system before earning a master's degree in chemistry at New York University in 1941.
Ms. Elion also served on the faculty of Duke University and the University of North Carolina.
Ms. Elion also served on the faculty of Duke University and the University of North Carolina.
The Asch Building, its interior long since gutted and rebuilt, became a part of New York University and still stands.
'' She went on to Bristol University, where she graduated with honors in drama, and to Birmingham University, where she got a master's degree in playwriting.
'' She went on to Bristol University, where she graduated with honors in drama, and to Birmingham University, where she got a master's degree in playwriting.
Du Bois Institute of Afro-American Research at Harvard University.
''
        Mrs. Durr won applause for her autobiography, ''Outside the Magic Circle'' (University of Alabama, 1985)'' edited by Hollinger F. Barnard.
''
        Dr. Harrower, a native of South Africa, was educated in England and graduated with a degree in psychology from the University of London in 1928.
Over the years, she was in private practice in New York, worked as a psychologist for Federal agencies and taught at universities in various parts of the country before moving to the University of Florida in 1968.
After graduating from Keele University in Staffordshire with a degree in politics, philosophy and economics, she married George Lobbenburg, an American who ran a successful clothing company in Britain.
''
        Ragini Devi, who died in 1982, made her last stage appearance at a memorable concert in 1979 at New York University.
Miss Murdoch had a background in philosophy -- she knew and wrote about Jean-Paul Sartre, studied with Ludwig Wittgenstein and was a lecturer in philosophy at Oxford University -- and her fiction grappled with such questions as the nature of good and evil.
After leaving the United Nations, Miss Murdoch took up further study in philosophy at Cambridge University, where she worked with Wittgenstein.

        Pearl Bernstein Max, who played a central role in melding the New York City municipal colleges into today's City University of New York, died Thursday in her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
From there, she initiated pioneering studies of teacher education, admissions procedures and other issues of vital importance to the growing university.
Thus, Mrs. Max was one of the principal shapers of CUNY, the nation's largest municipal university system.
A native of Manhattan, she graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Barnard in 1925 and pursued postgraduate studies at Columbia University and Fordham Law School.
She attended the University of California at Berkeley.
A native of Hamburg, Ark., the daughter of a Presbyterian minister and a graduate of the University of Arkansas, she was accustomed to the ways of the South.
''Crisis at Central High'' (Louisiana State University Press, 1980), based on journals she had kept during the confrontation, was made into a CBS movie that brought Joanne Woodward an Emmy nomination for her portrayal of Mrs. Huckaby.
Colleagues regarded Dr. Peplau as the ''mother of psychiatric nursing,'' said Dr. Grayce M. Sills, professor emeritus at the Ohio State University College of Nursing and a fellow of the American Academy of Nursing.
She served in the Army Nurse Corps as a first lieutenant in World War II and received a master's degree from Columbia University in 1947 and a doctorate in education in 1953.
Dr. Peplau directed the graduate program of psychiatric nursing at Columbia Teachers College from 1948 to 1953 and its counterpart at Rutgers University after that.
A teacher at Harvard University and an accomplished experimenter, she has gained a formidable reputation in a branch of science traditionally dominated by men: physics.
In their paper, Dr. Hau, with Dr. Steve E. Harris of Stanford University and two of Dr. Hau's Harvard students, reported the results of their experiment in which a beam of laser light was slowed to the astonishingly low speed of 38 miles an hour.
''
        Dr. Hau was born in Vejle, a small town not far from the University of Aarhus, on the east coast of Jutland.
''When I first entered Arhus University,'' Dr. Hau recalled, ''I was bored by physics.
Dr. Hau was awarded her Ph.D. from the University of Arhus in 1991 after completing a dissertation on the ''channeling'' of electrons along strings of atoms in a silicon crystal, as if the atomic strings were miniature wave guides, like the optical fibers used to guide light.
By then she had received a one-year stipend from Carlsberg so she could accept a post-doctoral university appointment without pay.
A graduate of Kansas State University, she worked during the Depression as an aide to Mary McLeod Bethune, the director of the National Youth Administration's Division of Negro Affairs and later a civilian adviser to the WAC.
Ms. Rogers, who was married to the Canadian artist Hubert Reginald Rogers, was born in Ogdensburg, N.Y., and attended St. Lawrence University and Columbia University.
Ms. Rogers, who was married to the Canadian artist Hubert Reginald Rogers, was born in Ogdensburg, N.Y., and attended St. Lawrence University and Columbia University.
Though overshadowed in history by the editor's famous second wife, the author Clare Boothe Luce, Mrs. Tyng played an important role in the life of Mr. Luce, who sought her advice even after they were divorced, said Robert E. Herzstein, a professor of history at the University of South Carolina and the author of ''Henry R. Luce'' (Scribner, 1994).
''
        Edith Handelsman grew up on Hoe Avenue in the Bronx and graduated in 1937 from New College, a division of Teachers College at Columbia University.
She came to the United States at the start of World War II, studied chemistry and biology at Columbia University and worked in an industrial laboratory.

        Dr. Rose Payne, whose research into tissue compatibility at Stanford University over more than three decades helped advance the field of organ transplants, died on April 18 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 89 and had been living in Cupertino, Calif.
        Dr. Payne, an expert in tissue-typing, was credited with helping identify proteins that play an important role in how well patients accept a graft of tissue, or a blood transfusion, from another person.
Rose Payne was born on Aug. 5, 1909, in Lake Bay, Wash. She attended the University of Washington, where in 1937 she earned a doctorate in bacteriology.
'' In the 1960's she worked with Mr. Weston, and during the 1970's she taught in Jamaica at the University of the West Indies and the Jamaica Institute of Music.
She had a permanent stage built, brought in new and innovative troupes like the Dublin Players Company, the Oxford University Players and Mr. Holder and his Trinidad Dance Troupe, established an apprentice school, introduced seminars in Shakespeare, Ibsen and Chekhov, and offered playwrights, actors, designers, composers and directors a chance to spread their wings.
She received the first Margo Jones Award (1962) and the Lee Strasberg Lifetime Achievement Award (1985), as well as induction into the Theater Hall of Fame (1990) and recognition from the School of the Arts at Columbia University (1996).
The first theater chair to be named for a woman bears her name, the Lucille Lortel Distinguished Professorial Chair in Theater at the City University of New York.
She established the Lucille Lortel Fund for New Drama at Yale University to support the production of new plays at the Yale Repertory Theater (the fund's premiere production was August Wilson's ''Fences'').
The Lucille Lortel Fellowship in Playwriting was started at Brown University in Providence, R.I., in 1996.
''No one had ever looked at that'' before Dr. Ainsworth's work, said Jude A. Cassidy, an associate professor of psychology at the University of Maryland at College Park.
''These findings had a big impact on how pediatricians advised mothers in the second half of the 20th century,'' said Robert S. Marvin, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Virginia.
She received her bachelor's degree in 1935, her master's degree in 1936 and her Ph.D. in 1939, all from the University of Toronto.
She then was a lecturer in the university's psychology department until 1942, when she was commissioned in the Canadian Women's Army Corps, attaining the rank of major.
She returned to the university as an assistant professor in 1946.
In 1955 she moved to Baltimore, where she joined the faculty of Johns Hopkins University.
''
        In 1974 Dr. Ainsworth, who was divorced from her husband in 1960, moved to Charlottesville, home of the University of Virginia, where she was a professor from 1975 to 1984.
Ms. Weglyn's book, ''Years of Infamy: The Untold Story of America's Concentration Camps'' (University of Washington Press, 1976), was praised by an American Ambassador to Japan, Mike Mansfield.
Frank Freidel, a professor of American history at Harvard University, wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Japanese-Americans in the western United States, numbering over 100,000, ''became the scapegoats for the attack on Pearl Harbor.
She also was an assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at Columbia University and associate attending psychiatrist at the New York State Psychiatric Institute from the 1950's until 1980.
Ruth Moulton was born in Columbia, Mo., and graduated from the University of Chicago in 1936 and from its medical school three years later.

        Madelaine Chambers, a lyric soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera and the New York City Opera in the 1950's and 60's, died on April 30 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.
Chambers attended New York University, Teachers College at Columbia University and the Juilliard School.
Chambers attended New York University, Teachers College at Columbia University and the Juilliard School.
Chambers taught voice at Princeton University and the State University of New York at Purchase.
Chambers taught voice at Princeton University and the State University of New York at Purchase.
Ms. Gruson was born on March 21, 1951, in Tel Aviv, and graduated from Harvard University in 1972.
List College, she was denied admission to Columbia University Law School because she was a woman.
Her father was a Spanish professor at the University of North Carolina, her mother a frustrated writer full of unfulfilled literary aspirations.
Ms. Boutelle was educated at Mount Holyoke College, the Sorbonne and Hamburg University.
''A professor from a leading university with a strong graduate horticulture program visited me once,'' she told an interviewer in 1978 with obvious delight.
She created another center at Teachers College, Columbia University, for training educators in child care.
Born in St. Louis, she graduated with a degree in psychology from  Washington University, then received a master's in social work.
Her interest in American antique furniture fueled her support of the American Wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Friends of American Art at Yale University, and the Art Museum of Sarah Lawrence College.
Eleven also graduated from college -- seven from the once-segregated University of Mississippi.
She was born in Manhattan, graduated from Smith College and earned a Ph.D. in anthropology at Columbia University in 1965.
A native of Georgia, she was educated at Talladega College, Tulane University and Columbia University, where she received a doctorate in philosophy on a Rockefeller Grant.
A native of Georgia, she was educated at Talladega College, Tulane University and Columbia University, where she received a doctorate in philosophy on a Rockefeller Grant.
''
        She grew up artistic and after a brief marriage studied art and anthropology at Barnard College and graduated from the University of California at Berkeley.
''
        Though missing in action from the televised punditry that began to dominate the nation's political discussion in the 1980's and 1990's, Miss Greenfield wielded her influence in many other venues, from the dinner parties of the powerful to the Columbia University offices where, from 1986 to 1995, she sat in judgment on her colleagues' work as a member of the Pulitzer Prize Board.
She graduated summa cum laude from Smith College in 1952, with a major in English literature, then spent a year as a Fulbright Scholar at Cambridge University in England, specializing in William Blake's works.
She was also a perennial on the college commencement circuit, receiving honorary degrees from Smith, Georgetown University, Wesleyan University, Williams College and Princeton University.
She was also a perennial on the college commencement circuit, receiving honorary degrees from Smith, Georgetown University, Wesleyan University, Williams College and Princeton University.
She was also a perennial on the college commencement circuit, receiving honorary degrees from Smith, Georgetown University, Wesleyan University, Williams College and Princeton University.
Mrs. Kingman was born in Macao  and graduated from Shanghai University.
Billie Rowland, as she was known, was born in Augusta, Ga., on March 17, 1908, and received bachelor's degree from Wilson College in Chambersburg, Pa. She also earned master's degrees from Yale University and Union Theological Seminary in New York.
Ms. Danieli entered the company in 1969 after earning a degree in economics at nearby Trieste University.

        Patricia Kerr Ross, former director of the State University of New York's Programs in the Arts, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Albany.
Over the years her office provided creative assistance and support to artists and arts administrators throughout the State University system.
She retired from the university in 1997.
She was awarded a scholarship to Northwestern University, where she met Daniel Whitney, a journalism student; they married shortly after her 21st birthday.
When S. I. Newhouse Jr., the chairman of Advance Publications, the parent company of Conde Nast, asked her what she would like for her 25th anniversary, she asked that he establish two scholarships in her name at the Newhouse School of Journalism at Syracuse University.
Born Beatrice Peterson in Queens, she attended Columbia University and worked as a model before becoming an actress.
Largely forgotten, it came to the fore only when researchers picked up on it again at Oxford University at the outbreak of World War II.
A native New Yorker, Mrs. Miller graduated in 1931 from Columbia Presbyterian School of Nursing, now part of Columbia University.
The next year, she married Ogden D. Miller, a Yale University administrator.
It mentioned that she was an artist in residence at Brandeis University's theater department.
The colonel called Brandeis and asked for her phone number, which the university would not give out.
So he told the university to call her and pass along a message: ''Bob O'Brien called, and I want to marry her.
'' The university did as instructed.
Barbara Bellman, as she was then, was born and reared in Minneapolis and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota and a master's degree from the University of Chicago; she did doctoral work at Catholic University.
Barbara Bellman, as she was then, was born and reared in Minneapolis and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota and a master's degree from the University of Chicago; she did doctoral work at Catholic University.
Barbara Bellman, as she was then, was born and reared in Minneapolis and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota and a master's degree from the University of Chicago; she did doctoral work at Catholic University.
Donna Allen was born in Petoskey, Mich., and graduated in history, with a minor in economics, from Duke University in 1943.
She received a master's degree in economics at the University of Chicago in 1953 and a Ph.D. in history at Howard University in 1971, with a dissertation on national health insurance.
She received a master's degree in economics at the University of Chicago in 1953 and a Ph.D. in history at Howard University in 1971, with a dissertation on national health insurance.
Dr. Allen taught grievance procedures and labor economics and history at the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University in the early 1950's.
Marguerite Sanders, as she then was, was born and reared in Manhattan, attended Columbia University, worked as a writer and editor for the McNaught Newspaper Syndicate and contributed articles to The New York Times Magazine, The New Yorker and other publications.
She graduated magna cum laude from Radcliffe and later served on the Harvard University board of overseers.
A native of Richmond, Mrs. Moore graduated from Salem College in North Carolina and studied at the University of Aix-Marseille and the University of Perugia.
A native of Richmond, Mrs. Moore graduated from Salem College in North Carolina and studied at the University of Aix-Marseille and the University of Perugia.
She later received a degree from Yeshiva University as an arts appraiser.

        Sherley Anne Williams, a daughter of migrant workers who became an award-winning novelist, poet and playwright as well as a professor at the University of California, died on July 6 at a hospital in San Diego.
The cause was cancer, Kate Callen, a university spokeswoman, said.
''
        As a freshman at Fresno State University, she discovered the work of Langston Hughes and Sterling Brown, who she claimed were her earliest influences.
''
        After completing a master's degree in American literature at Brown University, she joined the literature department at the University of California at San Diego in 1973 and remained there until shortly before her death.
''
        After completing a master's degree in American literature at Brown University, she joined the literature department at the University of California at San Diego in 1973 and remained there until shortly before her death.
Carolyn Bessette graduated from St. Mary's High School in Greenwich in 1983 and went on to Boston University, where she majored in elementary education.
She died at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center after a public battle against lung cancer.
She held 26 school records at the University of Southwestern Louisiana, where she remains the career scoring leader with 2,157 points.
Mrs. Marron also assisted in research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of Miami about the central nervous system of the giant squid.
Mrs. Marron was born on Nov. 22, 1899, in Jersey City and received a bachelor's degree and a master's degree from Columbia University.
Ms. Guild, whose full name was Nancy Guild Martin, was ''discovered'' in old Hollywood style when she appeared in a 1945 Life magazine picture layout about campus fashions while a student at the University of Arizona.
In 1989 she made her first and only trip to the United States, delivering scholarly papers at a Balanchine Conference in Miami and at New York University.
''
        Mrs. Shain, a native of Jersey City who worked as an interior decorator and bookkeeper after attending New York University, agreed reluctantly to accompany her husband to a Golden Gloves bout at Madison Square Garden one night in the late 1960's.
She went to Exeter University and received a degree in literature from Oxford University.
She went to Exeter University and received a degree in literature from Oxford University.
She taught English at the University of Padua in Italy from 1947 to 1949, and at the British Institute in Rome from 1949 to 1951.
She returned to England in 1953 and taught at the University of London.
More recently, she was a professor at the Foreign Service Institute and the National Defense University.
She received a master's degree in international affairs from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies and a doctorate in political science from Johns Hopkins University.
After spending her youth in Columbia, S.C., she enrolled at the University of South Carolina.
After moving to the retirement center, she initiated research by the University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing into the use of physical restraints on patients in nursing homes and hospitals; her work led to changes in restraint procedures.
A Doris Schwartz Chair of Gerontological Nursing was established at the University of Pennsylvania, and a Doris Schwartz Research Award, honoring a nurse for outstanding research in aging, is given by the Hartford Foundation Institute of Geriatric Nursing at New York University.
A Doris Schwartz Chair of Gerontological Nursing was established at the University of Pennsylvania, and a Doris Schwartz Research Award, honoring a nurse for outstanding research in aging, is given by the Hartford Foundation Institute of Geriatric Nursing at New York University.
Ms. Katznelson attended high school and a teacher's college in Jerusalem, then attended a master's program at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor.
''
        Robert J. Thompson, the founding director of the Center for the Study of Popular Television, at Syracuse University, said the Murrays ''literally danced an era out'' by drawing families together for quaint variety acts, before rock-and-roll began to fragment audiences.
Born in Belle Glade, Fla., Ms. Sheely trained at Florida State University.
She received an artist's diploma from Curtis in 1953 and a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Columbia University the same year.
She taught at the  University of Kansas, Ohio State University and the State University of New York at Fredonia.
She taught at the  University of Kansas, Ohio State University and the State University of New York at Fredonia.
She taught at the  University of Kansas, Ohio State University and the State University of New York at Fredonia.
''It was a country-girl-come-to-the-city kind of column,'' said Bill Kovach, a former editor of The Journal-Constitution, who is curator of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University.
She received a bachelor's degree in economics from Northwestern University, and  worked in the Pentagon during World War II.
Born in Chicago on Sept. 9, 1901, she had experienced racism while living in a succession of predominantly white towns in the Pacific Northwest, before entering the University of California at Berkeley, where she was inspired by a lecture on racism given by W. E. B. DuBois.
Chan Parker, a native New Yorker, was originally named Beverly Dolores Berg, but as she wrote in her 1993 memoirs, ''My Life in E-flat'' (University of South Carolina), ''I changed that name as soon as I could.
'' She went on to the University of California at Berkeley, where she studied Chinese and wrote her Ph.D. dissertation on irony in Thomas Hardy in 1942.
She then began a brief marriage, and taught English at the Central Washington College of Education in Ellensburg, Wash., and at the University of Chicago.
Her longest teaching affiliation, from 1986 until her death, was with the University of Creation Spirituality, established in Oakland, Calif., by Matthew Fox, a Dominican priest.
She had been under treatment in University Hospital in Munster since late July.
She graduated from school with a gold medal -- top honors in the Soviet system -- and went on to the prestigious University of Moscow.
When her husband, then first party secretary in Stavropol, was promoted to Moscow as a Central Committee secretary in charge of agriculture, she returned to academics, taking a job as lecturer in philosophy at Moscow University, a position which she gave up when he became General Secretary of the Communist Party.
''Many men would reject the trade and would never marry a female performer,'' Karin van Nieuwkerk wrote in a 1995 book about Egyptian dancers called ''A Trade Like Any Other'' and published by the University of Texas Press.
Born on May 24, 1956, in the Boston area, Ms. Erickson studied photography at the State University of New York at Buffalo and later worked with well-known fashion photographers.
Oseola McCarty, who gave away a life savings of $150,000 to help complete strangers get a college education at the University of Southern Mississippi here in her hometown, died late Sunday afternoon in the frame house where she took in laundry and ironing and made her small fortune a dollar or two at a time.
''People treated her like a monument,'' said Jewel Tucker, the secretary to the president of the university and Miss McCarty's traveling companion in those almost giddy years after the gift.
Along with all the plaques and trophies or other honors -- she received the Presidential Citizen's Medal, the nation's second-highest civilian award, and an honorary doctorate from Harvard University -- she was awarded other things that were pure fun.
Miss McCarty will lie in state in the rotunda of the university's main building on Saturday.
Friends like Aubrey K. Lucas, president emeritus of the University of Southern Mississippi, said it warmed him and others that came into contact with her to know that a lifetime of loneliness had been pushed aside by all the positive attention that her gift brought.
Horace Fleming, the university's president, said he sometimes wondered if all the attention that came her way was really welcome.
''
        The university's president said that a New York reporter once asked him out of earshot of Miss McCarty to tell him the true story of her gift.
She retired in 1992 from New York University, where she had been a professor for 31 years after holding other posts there for 18 years.
She was the first woman to enroll in the art school at George Washington University.
She taught at Oberlin College, Moravian College and Yale University.
In 1964 she graduated from  Hardin-Simmons University in Abilene, Tex., and then did graduate work at the University of California at Berkeley from 1965 to 1967.
In 1964 she graduated from  Hardin-Simmons University in Abilene, Tex., and then did graduate work at the University of California at Berkeley from 1965 to 1967.
She attended public school in New York City and studied art at the College of the City of New York, Columbia University and with private teachers.
''
        Born in Nykoping, Sweden, on Aug. 3, 1908, Miss Cullberg was the daughter of Ella W. Cullberg and Carl Cullberg, a bank director, and attended the University of Stockholm.
She graduated from Adelphi University and received a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University in 1929.
She graduated from Adelphi University and received a master's degree in journalism from Columbia University in 1929.
She attended Hunter College and New York University.
Ms. Heskes was born in Brooklyn and studied music and history at New York University, voice and piano at the Juilliard School, music education at the Eastman School of Music and arts administration at Harvard.
Soon fluent in German and English as well as French and Russian, she  studied law and literature at the Sorbonne and Oxford University before joining a Paris law firm in 1925, the same year that she married a fellow lawyer, Raymond Sarraute.
Her teaching also included work in the 1970's at the University of Southern Illinois at Carbondale and at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
Her teaching also included work in the 1970's at the University of Southern Illinois at Carbondale and at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
She also approached Dr. Marc Feldman, a psychiatrist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham and an expert on Munchausen syndrome, who said she had helped a number of patients.
She received a bachelor's degree from Simmons College in Boston and a master's degree in political science from the University of California at Berkeley.
Dr. Harrison earned her medical degree at Bristol University and trained in high-altitude and wilderness medicine at the University of Colorado.
Dr. Harrison earned her medical degree at Bristol University and trained in high-altitude and wilderness medicine at the University of Colorado.
Ms. Manzoni, a native New Yorker, received a bachelor's degree from Bucknell University in 1969 and a doctorate in law from Catholic University of America in 1977.
Ms. Manzoni, a native New Yorker, received a bachelor's degree from Bucknell University in 1969 and a doctorate in law from Catholic University of America in 1977.
from the University of Chicago in 1951 and studied painting at the Art Institute of Chicago.
In 1949, the Weitzmans, neither of whom had graduated from high school, enrolled at George Washington University.
In 1957, the couple moved to New York City when Mrs. Weitzman was accepted by Einstein's doctoral program, which at the time was jointly administered by Columbia University.
Born in Wilmington, Del., she graduated from the University of Delaware with an English major.
1,'' said Perry Link, a professor of modern Chinese language and literature at Princeton University.
She graduated in 1940 from St. Anne's College at Oxford University, the college's first student to receive a bachelor's degree in Chinese literature, the official newspaper China Daily reported.
She was 92 and had homes in Manhattan, Essex, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla.
        Born in what was Austria-Hungary and reared in Quebec, Mrs. Slatkin graduated from McGill University.
She also studied at the University of Chicago.
After her husband's death in 1977 Mrs. Slatkin became interested in the decorative arts, building a collection of early-American glass that she donated to the State University of New York at Plattsburgh.
''For nearly three quarters of a century, Perriand has been one of the major innovators in French design, and her career embraces much of the history of 20th-century design in France,'' said Mary McLeod, an architectural historian at Columbia University.
''For nearly three quarters of a century, Perriand has been one of the major innovators in French design, and her career embraces much of the history of 20th-century design in France,'' said Mary McLeod, an architectural historian at Columbia University.
''
        In 1971, when Princeton University first admitted women, Kraft became the women's varsity tennis coach, leading the team to an undefeated record for the three years of her tenure.
She graduated from Jadavpur University in Calcutta and trained in classical and folk dance in India.
Her list of more than 2,000 such genera far surpassed anyone else's, said Mr. Whitney, who also works as a research associate at Louisiana State University.
She continued to perform while a student at Hofstra University on Long Island.
Born Faith Apfelbaum in New York in 1936, she grew up in Manhattan and in New Rochelle, N.Y., and attended Cornell University, where she came under the thrall of an authoritative English professor named William M. Sale Jr. She worked on the school newspaper with his son, Kirk, whom she would marry.
Mrs. Resnick was a member of the board of overseers of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University, in the Bronx.
''
        Mrs. Resnick was a board member of Bar-Ilan University near Tel Aviv.
Bode was born on July 14, 1943, in Penn Yan, N.Y., the daughter of the late Carl Bode, a professor of English and American Studies at the University of Maryland, and the former Charlotte Watkins Smith.
She graduated from the University of Maryland in 1965.
Lucile Petry, a teacher at the University of Minnesota School of Nursing, was chosen to initiate the program.
''In that capacity,'' said Zina Mirsky, assistant dean for administration at the School of Nursing of the University of California at San Francisco, ''she established the role of nursing in the federal government -- a presence that still exists.
''
        Ms. Leone retired from government service in 1966 and went on to teach nursing and serve as associate dean at Texas Women's University.
She was reared in Selbyville, Del., and  after graduating from the University of Delaware in 1924, she received  advanced degrees at the Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing in 1927 and Columbia Teachers College in 1929.
She was reared in Selbyville, Del., and  after graduating from the University of Delaware in 1924, she received  advanced degrees at the Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing in 1927 and Columbia Teachers College in 1929.
She taught at the Yale School of Nursing and the University of Minnesota School of Nursing before being summoned to Washington.
''
        The daughter of a railway worker, Ms. Iotti was born in Reggio Emilia, the heart of Italy's ''red belt'' and studied literature at the Catholic University of Milan.
Young Rose was a standout scholar in high school, earning a scholarship to Long Island University, where she majored in English in preparation for a career in journalism.
She later enrolled as a graduate student in political science at the University of California at Berkeley, but an internship in the State Legislature in Sacramento persuaded her to switch to law school, because lawyers seemed to have the most influence on public policy.
After working as a public defender and teaching a seminar in criminal defense at Stanford University's law school, Ms. Bird became a volunteer in Mr. Brown's 1974 campaign for governor, serving as his frequent chauffeur on his trips to her area and later as a trusted adviser on his transition team.
She received a bachelor's degree from the University of Idaho and worked as a stewardess for United Airlines and then for Pan American World Airways.
She was hostess of a knitting program shown on many public television stations and in 1974 began a knitting camp under the auspices of the University of Wisconsin.
She earned both a master's degree (1947) and a Ph.D. (1952) from Ohio State University, and taught at Ohio State, Teachers College of Columbia University and City College before joining the Harvard faculty.
She earned both a master's degree (1947) and a Ph.D. (1952) from Ohio State University, and taught at Ohio State, Teachers College of Columbia University and City College before joining the Harvard faculty.
