Miss Hsieh ''pioneered the literary construction of a soldier image for women -- as imaginative as it may have been -- and thereby influenced this kind of literature in China for decades,'' said Charles A. Laughlin,  professor of modern Chinese literature at Yale University.
She was a 1957 honors graduate in English and American studies at the University of Buffalo.
She met John Ferraro, a former All-American football player at the University of Southern California and a City Council member, in the 1970's.
The cause was cancer, said officials at the University of California at Los Angeles, where Dr. Fromkin, an emeritus professor of linguistics, had taught since 1965.
She received a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of California at Berkeley in 1944.
From 1980 to 1989, she was vice chancellor of graduate programs at U.C.L.A., one of the first women in the University of California system to hold such a position.
She received a bachelor's degree from Barnard in 1935, a master's degree in teaching from Manhattanville College in 1970 and a Ph.D. in English literature from Denver University in 1979.
In a speech last year on saving the endangered salmon of the Pacific Northwest, she reminded her Seattle University audience of the first reason to do so: the fish are ''good to eat.

        Mary Cantwell, who wrote essays, books and editorials for The New York Times, many about the changing public and private lives of women in America, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.

        Jane B. Davies, an independent architectural historian whose devotion took her from reference librarian at Columbia University to pre-eminent authority on the 19th-century American architect Alexander J. Davis, died on Feb. 9.
Some of the pieces are now at the Metropolitan Museum of Art; the rest of her collection will go to the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library at Columbia University.
at Wellesley College in 1935 and teaching for several years at girls' preparatory schools in Illinois and Colorado, she earned degrees in German history and library science at Columbia University in 1942 and 1944.
When her husband, an Illinois Democrat, left the Senate in 1997, Mrs. Simon joined him on the faculty of Southern Illinois University at Carbondale as an adjunct professor of library affairs.
She helped him found and shape the agenda of the Public Policy Institute at the university.
Born in Chicago, Jeanne Hurley graduated from Barat College in Lake Forest, Ill., and from Northwestern University Law School.

        Filomen D'Agostino Greenberg, a self-taught stock trader who used her good fortune to help her alma mater, New York University Law School, grow into an academic leader, died Friday.
While she was practicing negligence and criminal law, she married Max Greenberg, a 1919 New York University law graduate who became a highly successful expert in contract law; he died in 1980.

        Eva Julia Neer, a biochemist and heart researcher at Harvard University and Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, died on Sunday at her home in Cambridge, Mass.
She attended Radcliffe College, graduated from Barnard College in 1957 and received her medical degree at Columbia University in 1963.
''
        Born in Brooklyn, Ms. Gallo received a bachelor's degree in theater and textiles from the State University of New York.

        Bonnie Cashin, one of the first designers to create and popularize that uniquely American approach to dress called sportswear, died Thursday after open heart surgery at New York University Medical Center.
Her designs are in more than a dozen museums and some 30 university collections.
' ''
        She graduated from Aberdeen University and received her law degree at St. Ann's College, Oxford.

        Mae Faggs Starr, an Olympic champion sprinter and the first renowned athlete of the Tigerbelle women's track teams at Tennessee State University, died Jan. 27 at her home in Woodlawn, Ohio.
''
        After graduating from Tennessee State, Faggs received a master's degree from the University of Cincinnati and then taught physical education at high schools in the Cincinnati area.
Ms. Washburn was a graduate of Pembroke-Brown University and earned an M.A.
at Columbia University, where she also received a Ph.D. in classic Greek.
''
        Ms. Fine taught composition at the Juilliard School, New York University, the State University of New York at Potsdam and Bennington College in Vermont.
''
        Ms. Fine taught composition at the Juilliard School, New York University, the State University of New York at Potsdam and Bennington College in Vermont.
She earned her bachelor's and master's degrees from Tufts College and studied Chinese at the University of Chicago Oriental Institute.
In recent years several of Ms. Ingalls's poems were published in an anthology from the Yale University Press and she was honored by the University of Chicago as ''a poet of the ages.
In recent years several of Ms. Ingalls's poems were published in an anthology from the Yale University Press and she was honored by the University of Chicago as ''a poet of the ages.
She received a master's degree in social work from New York University and was preparing a dissertation in social policy at Columbia University at the time of her death.
She received a master's degree in social work from New York University and was preparing a dissertation in social policy at Columbia University at the time of her death.
After graduating from the University of Regina, Schmirler was asked to join a local team.
She was an active fund-raiser for the Institute of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery at New York University Medical Center.
'' She earned degrees from the University of Chicago and the Winnetka Graduate Teachers College.
Dr. Brainard received a doctorate in musicology from the University of Gottingen in Germany, writing her dissertation on ''The Choreographer of the Court Dances of Burgundy, France and Italy in the 15th Century.
One of the first fellows of the Radcliffe Institute for Independent Studies in Cambridge, Mass., Dr. Brainard was an artist in residence at Northeastern University and served as a director and chairwoman of the Congress on Research in Dance.
As a university student studying sociology in Frankfurt, she became a political activist protesting the rise of Hitler's National Socialism.

        Frances Gray Patton, a writer whose short stories appeared in The New Yorker through four decades and whose works included the popular 1954 novel ''Good Morning, Miss Dove,'' died Tuesday at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. She was 94 and lived in Durham.
Her mother had been the first woman to enroll at the University of North Carolina.
After high school, she attended Trinity College, now Duke University, before enrolling at the University of North Carolina, where she held a fellowship as a playwright and was active in the Carolina Playmakers.
After high school, she attended Trinity College, now Duke University, before enrolling at the University of North Carolina, where she held a fellowship as a playwright and was active in the Carolina Playmakers.
''
        Born in Detroit, Ms. Dlugoszewski studied physics at Wayne State University before moving in the late 1940's to New York City, where she studied piano with Grete Sultan, music analysis with Felix Salzer and composition with Varese.
Mrs. Komanoff, who lived in Lido Beach, N.Y., for the last 11 years, was born in the Bronx on July 28, 1910, and graduated from New York University in 1931.
In June 1927, while still a teenager, she graduated with honors from the University of Utah with a bachelor's degree in Spanish.
Two days later, she married Mr. Marriott, another University of Utah graduate, and the couple set off in a Ford Model T to Washington, where Mr. Marriott had just opened a root beer stand.
Her husband, Joseph J. Sisco, a former under secretary of state for political affairs and a former president of American University, joined the firm in 1981.
She was born in Muleshoe, Tex., and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Louisville and a master's degree in business administration from the University of Chicago.
She was born in Muleshoe, Tex., and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Louisville and a master's degree in business administration from the University of Chicago.
After three years at Howard University, where she later received a bachelor's degree, Margaret Barnes joined the military in 1943, a time when it was racially segregated and there were few places for women.
Mrs. Jones complained to a superior officer, and persuaded him to reassign them to other duties, according to a book about the 6888th Battalion, ''To Serve My Country, To Serve My Race,'' (New York University Press, 1996) by Brenda L. Moore.
She then did graduate work in American history at the University of Minnesota.

        Betsy Dworkin, a former senior lecturer in social policy and administration at the University of London's Chelsea and University colleges, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich Village.

        Betsy Dworkin, a former senior lecturer in social policy and administration at the University of London's Chelsea and University colleges, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich Village.
From 1972 to 1989 she taught at Chelsea and University colleges.
In addition to her husband, Professor Ronald Dworkin, who teaches at New York University and at the University of London's University College, she is survived by a son, Anthony of London; and a daughter, Jennifer Dworkin of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her husband, Professor Ronald Dworkin, who teaches at New York University and at the University of London's University College, she is survived by a son, Anthony of London; and a daughter, Jennifer Dworkin of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her husband, Professor Ronald Dworkin, who teaches at New York University and at the University of London's University College, she is survived by a son, Anthony of London; and a daughter, Jennifer Dworkin of Manhattan.
      

        Evelyn Swarthout Hayes, a former concert pianist, educator and arts patron, died on March 24 at George Washington University Hospital.
Mrs. Hayes joined the piano faculty at American University in 1951 and taught there until retiring in 1976.
She attended Fisk University for two years before moving to Chicago and later New York, where she apprenticed with the W.P.A.
''
        A graduate of Northwestern University, Ms. Kaufman began her career as a columnist for City Paper, an alternative weekly in her native Baltimore, and continued writing after she moved to Los Angeles, first at the LA Weekly and then for national publications.

        Dr. Ruth Erica Benesch, a biochemist and educator who teamed with her husband at Columbia University to advance the knowledge of how the body's red blood cells function, died on March 25 at her home in the Bronx.
She graduated in 1946 from the University of London, came to the United States the following year and received a Ph.D. in biochemistry at Northwestern University in 1951.
She graduated in 1946 from the University of London, came to the United States the following year and received a Ph.D. in biochemistry at Northwestern University in 1951.
She was affiliated with Johns Hopkins University, the State University of Iowa and the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Mass., before she joined the staff at Columbia as a research associate in 1960.
She was affiliated with Johns Hopkins University, the State University of Iowa and the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Mass., before she joined the staff at Columbia as a research associate in 1960.
Correction:  April 15, 2000, Saturday  An obituary on April 4 about Dr. Ruth Erica Benesch, a Columbia University biochemist, misstated her maiden name and the year of the death of her husband and collaborator, Dr. Reinhold Benesch.
''This is the sort of book that Dina knew off the top of her head,'' said Zachary Baker, who succeeded Ms. Abramowicz as YIVO's head librarian and now is curator of Judaica at Stanford University's library.
After studying Polish literature in university, she went to work for her first library, the Kinderbibliotek.
After her graduation from high school, Miss Trevor took art courses for six months at Columbia University before studying for six more months at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.
She attended Syracuse University, Howard University and Virginia Union University and graduated from City College of New York with a bachelor's degree in English and a master's degree in black literature.
She attended Syracuse University, Howard University and Virginia Union University and graduated from City College of New York with a bachelor's degree in English and a master's degree in black literature.
She attended Syracuse University, Howard University and Virginia Union University and graduated from City College of New York with a bachelor's degree in English and a master's degree in black literature.
She was born Verna Norberg in New Era, Mich., and graduated from what is now Michigan State University in 1935.
A measure was then introduced in the Alabama Legislature to require the state library chief to be a native of Alabama and a graduate of the University of Alabama or Auburn University.
A measure was then introduced in the Alabama Legislature to require the state library chief to be a native of Alabama and a graduate of the University of Alabama or Auburn University.
Emily Wheelock Reed grew up in Indiana and graduated from Indiana University.
She worked in libraries in Detroit, Hawaii and Louisiana and taught library science at the University of Florida before becoming Alabama's library director in 1959.
She studied nursing at Seattle University.
Her passion was mentoring researchers in the manner in which William J. Clench, her predecessor as mollusk curator at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University, had inspired her.
In 1944, she earned a master's degree in ornithology from Cornell University.

        Dr. Harriet Lange Rheingold, a child psychologist and research professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina, died on April 29 at a retirement center in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 92.
A native New Yorker, she graduated from Cornell University in 1928 with a degree in philosophy and earned a master's in psychology at Columbia University in 1930.
A native New Yorker, she graduated from Cornell University in 1928 with a degree in philosophy and earned a master's in psychology at Columbia University in 1930.
In 1955 she received a Ph.D. in psychology at the University of Chicago.
''
        In 1991 she and her husband, a  retired associate professor of medicine at Columbia University's medical school, gave the center her collection of more than 100,000 photographic images, almost all taken at the center.
''The collection chronicles the history of this medical center and looks in depth at every aspect of medical and nursing education and the delivery of health care,'' said Dr. Pat Moholt, associate dean for scholarly resources in Columbia University's health sciences division, which includes the medical center.
Ms. Sosenko donated a good part of her letter and manuscript collection  to the Library of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, the theater archives of Georgia State University and Rutgers University.
Ms. Sosenko donated a good part of her letter and manuscript collection  to the Library of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, the theater archives of Georgia State University and Rutgers University.

        Joan Stoliar, a freelance book designer otherwise known as the den mother of New York fly-fishers, who took her love of pristine trout streams into city classrooms, died on June 18 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
Born Joan Kramer in Brooklyn, Mrs. Stoliar graduated from Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh in 1950 and worked as an art director at various publications before turning freelance.
Colonel Propp, as she was known to her former Army colleagues, was made a distinguished member of the corps at a banquet in her honor in April 1999 at the Judge Advocate General's School in Charlottesville, Va.
        A native of Laurel, Iowa, and a 1930 graduate of the University of Iowa, she earned her law degree there and was the only woman in the law school's class of 1933.
At her death she was professor emeritus of political science at the University of Arkansas, where she lectured and wrote from 1968 until her retirement three years ago.
She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Cornell University in 1959 and received an M.A.
in political science at the University of Arkansas in 1967.
'' (University of Nebraska Press, 1988).
She graduated Phi Beta Kappa in economics in 1933 from the University of Wisconsin, where she received an M.A.
From 1972 to 1982, she was a professor of public health economics at Columbia University, and from 1971 to 1982, was associate director of its Center for Community Health Systems.
Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Gilman studied at Adelphi University and St. John's University before she received her law degree from New York University in 1950.
Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Gilman studied at Adelphi University and St. John's University before she received her law degree from New York University in 1950.
Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Gilman studied at Adelphi University and St. John's University before she received her law degree from New York University in 1950.

        Barbara T. Christian, a professor of African-American studies at the University of California at Berkeley and a pioneer of contemporary American literary feminism, died on June 25 at her home in Berkeley.
The cause was complications from lung cancer, said Patricia McBroom, a university spokeswoman.
Born in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, Ms. Christian entered Marquette University in Wisconsin at the age of 15.
After she graduated cum laude in 1963, her family urged her to study medicine, but she instead chose graduate study at Columbia University, from which she received a doctorate in contemporary British and American literature in 1970.
During her graduate studies, she also taught at the City College of the City University of New York.
In 1991, she won the university's Distinguished Teaching Award, the first African-American to do so.
This year, she received the Berkeley Citation ''for distinguished achievement and for notable service to the university.
''
        In a letter supporting her nomination, Henry Louis Gates Jr. of Harvard University wrote that Ms. Christian ''has emerged as the senior figure among African-American feminists.
'' Arnold Rampersad of Stanford University called her ''a major shaper and guide in the general area where the subjects of literature, race and feminism meet.
At the State University of New York in Buffalo, she was offered a scholarship to medical school, but the couple moved because of Mr. Martin's job.
A graduate of Vassar College, Mrs. Nickerson earned a master's degree from Columbia University in 1949.
''
        Ms. Vlock was a co-founder of what came to be called the Fortunoff Archive of Holocaust Testimonies, at Yale University.
Ms. Vlock received a bachelor's degree from Cornell University and a master's degree from Queens College.
Born in Paris, Ms. Molinaro was educated at the Sorbonne and the University of London, and studied medicine in Florence, Italy.
She also taught at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, the University of Hawaii and New York University.
She also taught at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, the University of Hawaii and New York University.
At 12, she briefly ran off with a passing circus before going on to study musicology at the University of Munich.
Yale University staged a 120-picture retrospective in 1995, presenting the remarkable panoply of her work.

        Brenda Reilly, a teacher, sports administrator and three-sport coach in a career of almost three decades at Central Connecticut State University in New Britain, died of cancer at a hospice in Branford, Conn., on Aug. 5.
''
        Reilly, an infielder and pitcher on the Brakettes, finally heeded her teammates' advice at the age of 26 and enrolled at California State University, Los Angeles, said Kathy Pullek, assistant director of sports information at Central Connecticut State.
Eva Ingersoll Gatling was born in Mobile, Ala., and graduated from the University of Alabama and Yale University.
Eva Ingersoll Gatling was born in Mobile, Ala., and graduated from the University of Alabama and Yale University.
Before joining the Heckscher, she was director of exhibitions at Duke University, curator at the Museum of the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and assistant director of the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa.
''
        Lindsay Waters, the Harvard University Press's executive editor for the humanities, said of Frau Ritzerfeld's passing, ''This is the end of an era, as anyone who ever attended the Frankfurt Book Fair will be more than happy to testify.
''The great Walter Benjamin project we have going at the Harvard University Press -- some 3,000 pages -- was made possible by her,'' he said.
Since the late 1980's, the Harvard University Press has been publishing English translations of Benjamin's works.
By 1951, she was studying child development at the University of Illinois's Chicago campus, where she met and married Leonard Sagan, a medical student.
By 1968 she had completed her graduate work at Brooklyn College, Columbia University and New York University.
By 1968 she had completed her graduate work at Brooklyn College, Columbia University and New York University.
She studied at St. Joseph College for Women and at Fordham University.
She eventually studied anthropology at Columbia University and in 1945 became the first woman to cover the police beat at The Fort Worth Star-Telegram.
Students in the seven-year accelerated medical degree program take three years of undergraduate work at City College, two years of medical training at Sophie Davis and their final two years at one of six cooperating medical schools, including New York University and SUNY/Downstate.
She graduated from the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor in 1939 with honors in psychology and philosophy, and received a master's degree in clinical psychology in 1941.
She received a doctorate in that discipline at Northwestern University in 1951.
Ms. Wicks was born in Manhattan and grew up in Franklin Lakes, N.J. She graduated from Wittenberg University in Springfield, Ohio.
''
        She studied at Dillard University in New Orleans and in 1948 began her acting career at the Old Globe Theater in San Diego.
''
        Ms. Gordon was born in Logansport, Ind., attended the University of Chicago and briefly taught high school in Wisconsin.
She then taught classes as an adjunct professor at Boston University until 1993.
Jacquelyn Krasne Reinach was born in Omaha, grew up in Beverly Hills and graduated with a degree in psychology from the University of California at Los Angeles before moving to New York.
She then taught classes as an adjunct professor at Boston University until 1993.
Dr. Milton, who lived in Chevy Chase, Md., died of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said her husband, Henry Friedlander, a professor of history at the City University of New York and president of the German Studies Association.
She taught German history at Stanford University and elsewhere before becoming director of archives at the Leo Baeck Institute in New York from 1974 to 1984.
After graduating from the High School of Music and Art, she received a bachelor's degree from Barnard College in 1962, a master's the next year and a doctorate from Stanford University in modern German history in 1971.
Dr. Salpeter was chairwoman of the department of neurobiology and behavior at Cornell University from 1982 to 1988.
She received a Ph.D. in psychobiology and neuroanatomy at Cornell in 1953 and did postgraduate work in neuroanatomy and cell biology at Cornell and Case Western Reserve University.
While at Bard, Ms. Lee had studied child psychology and in 1970 was awarded a Martin Luther King Fellowship for Urban Studies by New York University to develop a curriculum for elementary school students that combined music and dance with academic subjects.
In Germany, she studied philosophy at the University of Berlin and took part in philosophical discussions led by Nikolai Berdyaev, the Rev.
In 1926, a scholarship from the John D. Rockefeller Fund took her to the United States, where she graduated from Columbia University with a master's degree in religious education.
And she changed the university admissions policy to benefit the Sinhalese, disadvantaging the Tamils.
''
        Ms. Austin was born Evelyn Austin in Glen Ridge, N.J. She graduated from Vassar College and received a master's degree from Columbia University.

        Anna Berenson Mayer, a social work policy planner and retired professor of social policy at Rutgers University, died on Wednesday at a New Brunswick, N.J., hospital.
She was 91 and lived in East Brunswick, N.J.
        Dr. Mayer, who received a doctorate in social work from Columbia University, was chosen in 1983 to head a newly formed Governor's Committee on Children's Services Planning for New Jersey.
A new theater is to be named for her at the Auraria Higher Education Center, home to the University of Colorado at Denver, Metropolitan State College and Denver Community College.
She became the first girl in her family to go to college, and she arrived in New York in 1922 to study for a master's degree in home economics at Columbia University.
She graduated from Smith College in 1932 and attended Columbia University's School of Social Work.
She earned a master's degree in economics from Simmons College in Boston, and did further graduate work at the University of Wisconsin and the University of California at Berkeley.
She earned a master's degree in economics from Simmons College in Boston, and did further graduate work at the University of Wisconsin and the University of California at Berkeley.
She worked as a researcher at what was then called the Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New York in Brooklyn, and was co-author of three books: ''Anxiety in Pregnancy and Childbirth'' (Hoeber, 1950); ''Psychological Differentiation'' (Wiley, 1962); and ''Left Handed'' (Columbia University Press, 1980).
She worked as a researcher at what was then called the Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New York in Brooklyn, and was co-author of three books: ''Anxiety in Pregnancy and Childbirth'' (Hoeber, 1950); ''Psychological Differentiation'' (Wiley, 1962); and ''Left Handed'' (Columbia University Press, 1980).
She graduated from Smith College in 1932 and attended Columbia University's School of Social Work.
She studied comparative religion at Columbia University and Union Theological Seminary, but as a woman found the road to a career in theology blocked.
A native New Yorker, Ms. Wilson attended Bennington College and Columbia University and started her career in the 1940's.
In 1928, she moved to Chicago, where she enrolled at the University of Chicago and started working with the Cube Theater, the first interracial company in Chicago.
'' Two years later, she moved with the show to New York, where it was broadcast on CBS until 1945, and resumed her college studies, earning a degree in anthropology from Columbia University.
At her death, she was also a professor in the department of Spanish and Portuguese and director of the university's graduate program in Spanish.
Born in Venezuela, she was formerly a journalist and film critic in Caracas and an assistant professor at the University of Buenos Aires.
She edited ''The Memoirs of Fray Servando Teresa de Mier,'' the life of a venturesome Mexican friar, issued in English in 1998 by Oxford University Press.
A revised and updated version of her book ''The American Chronicles of Jose Marti: Journalism and Modernity in Spanish America'' was published this year by University Press of New England.
She was a 1975 graduate of Catholic University Andres Bello in Caracas.
in 1986 and a Ph.D. in Spanish-American literature in 1989 while working as a teaching assistant at the University of Maryland.
Ms. Brooks's poetry shifted noticeably in form and concern after she attended a conference of black writers at Fisk University in the spring of 1967.
The Gwendolyn Brooks Chair in Black Literature and Creative Writing was established at Chicago State University in 1990, and there is a Gwendolyn Brooks Center for African-American Literature at Western Illinois University and a Gwendolyn Brooks Junior High School just south of Chicago in Harvey, Ill. She was selected by the National Endowment of the Humanities as its Jefferson Lecturer in 1994 -- ''the absolute award crown of my career,'' she said.
The Gwendolyn Brooks Chair in Black Literature and Creative Writing was established at Chicago State University in 1990, and there is a Gwendolyn Brooks Center for African-American Literature at Western Illinois University and a Gwendolyn Brooks Junior High School just south of Chicago in Harvey, Ill. She was selected by the National Endowment of the Humanities as its Jefferson Lecturer in 1994 -- ''the absolute award crown of my career,'' she said.
After she won two local beauty pageants and studied drama for two years at Brigham Young University, her parents drove her to Hollywood to study with Maria Ouspenskaya, the famed acting instructor.
She completed her undergraduate work at Smith in 1936 and continued her studies there, at the University of Munich and at the Salzburg Mozarteum.
During two years of postwar convalescence in a Swedish hospital, she learned to walk again and taught herself English by correspondence with Oxford University.
Ignoring those who urged her to become a teacher, she enrolled in pre-law courses at Columbia University.
''Strangely, even with a strong Argentine accent that never quite went away, she became the darling of Mexican cinema,'' said Carl Mora, an expert on Latin American film at the University of New Mexico.
Spanning five centuries, they now fill the Esther B. Aresty Collection on the Culinary Arts at the University of Pennsylvania.
She dropped out of Purdue University while still in her teens and wrote advertising and radio copy in Chicago and radio scripts for ''The Elsa Maxwell Show'' in New York.
She received a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Hunter College, a master's degree in speech from the University of Michigan and a master's degree in police science from the City University of New York.
She received a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Hunter College, a master's degree in speech from the University of Michigan and a master's degree in police science from the City University of New York.
Ms. Brooks's poetry shifted noticeably in form and concern after she attended a conference of black writers at Fisk University in the spring of 1967.
The Gwendolyn Brooks Chair in Black Literature and Creative Writing was established at Chicago State University in 1990, and there is a Gwendolyn Brooks Center for African-American Literature at Western Illinois University and a Gwendolyn Brooks Junior High School just south of Chicago in Harvey, Ill. She was selected by the National Endowment of the Humanities as its Jefferson Lecturer in 1994, ''the absolute award crown of my career,'' she said.
The Gwendolyn Brooks Chair in Black Literature and Creative Writing was established at Chicago State University in 1990, and there is a Gwendolyn Brooks Center for African-American Literature at Western Illinois University and a Gwendolyn Brooks Junior High School just south of Chicago in Harvey, Ill. She was selected by the National Endowment of the Humanities as its Jefferson Lecturer in 1994, ''the absolute award crown of my career,'' she said.
Born in Mankato, Minn., and a graduate of the University of Minnesota, Marvel Jackson moved to New York in 1926 and worked as secretary for W. E. B. DuBois, editor of The Crisis, the magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
