
        Sandra W. Meyer, a pioneering marketing executive who was part of the inspiration for the long-running Broadway drama ''The Sisters Rosensweig,'' died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital.
Mrs. Meyer graduated cum laude from Syracuse University with a bachelor's degree in history.
She continued in private practice after retiring in 1988 as a certified psychologist and school psychologist from the educational psychology department at New York University.
Her mother was also  a member of the New York City Board of Higher Education who helped plan the creation of the City University.
At the University of Wisconsin, she studied agricultural bacteriology, earning a master's degree and a doctorate and meeting her husband, Henry Bunting, a medical student who shared her interest in hiking and bird watching.
They married in 1937 and moved to Connecticut, where he was on the faculty of Yale University and she conducted research, working on the effects of radiation on bacteria.
Because she was a woman, there were no faculty openings at Yale, her son Charles recalled yesterday, and she jumped at the offer to become dean of Douglass College, the women's college of Rutgers University.
Five years later, at age 48, she was offered a job as the fifth president of Radcliffe College, the undergraduate college for women at Harvard University, with about 1,775 women.
''
        Ms. Kumin said that at a time when she was teaching English composition to physical education majors at Tufts University because only men were allowed to teach liberal arts majors, ''being chosen as a Radcliffe scholar put an imprimatur on what you were doing and gave it legitimacy.
After Mrs. Bunting-Smith stepped down as president of Radcliffe in 1972, she spent three years as special assistant to the president of Princeton University, William Bowen, working on coeducation there.

        Dr. Alma Hawkins, a pioneering modern-dance educator who founded the dance department at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on Jan. 8 at her home in Santa Monica.
Born in Rolla, Mo., Dr. Hawkins graduated from the University of Missouri and went on to study at Teachers College, Columbia University, where she became interested in modern dance.
Born in Rolla, Mo., Dr. Hawkins graduated from the University of Missouri and went on to study at Teachers College, Columbia University, where she became interested in modern dance.
She taught at Emporia State University in Kansas and George Williams College in Chicago before joining the dance program at U.C.L.A.
In 1962, Dr. Hawkins established an autonomous dance department, equal in status to the departments of art, music and theater arts, at the College of Fine Arts at the university.
According to the University of California at Los Angeles, it was the nation's first university dance department, eventually offering degrees in dance therapy, dance history, esthetics and education as well as choreography and performance.
According to the University of California at Los Angeles, it was the nation's first university dance department, eventually offering degrees in dance therapy, dance history, esthetics and education as well as choreography and performance.
She worked closely with dance presenters to bring leading American and foreign troupes to perform at Royce Hall at the university.
Dr. Hawkins was a dance therapist and researcher at the university's Neuropsychiatric Institute from 1960 to 1977, training dance therapists and creating a series of educational research films about the field.
On paper, the soup kitchen Sister Bernadette founded in 1982 at the old red-brick campus of St. John's University on Lewis Avenue in Bedford-Stuyvesant would seem impressive enough.
A native of Salem, Ore., she was a graduate of the University of Washington.
She received a degree in fine arts along with a Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of California, and painted throughout her life.
Mr. Hearst had not yet entered his first year at Oglethorpe University in Atlanta, but the couple were married in New York in December 1927.

        Dr. Jean Trepp McKelvey, who hurdled gender barriers in the field of labor-management mediation and opened the School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University, died on Jan. 5 at the Kirkhaven Nursing Home in her hometown of Rochester.
Mrs. Haje, who also served as a bridge between Arab-American organizations, eventually worked so closely with so many of them, including the Arab-American Discrimination Committee and the Arab-American University Graduates Association, that Dr. Clovis Maksud, the Lebanese-born former head of the Arab League, called her the ''mother'' of most of the Arab-American organizations in the United States.
''
        Harriet Van Horne was born in Syracuse on May 17, 1920, and graduated from the College for Women of the University of Rochester in 1940.
Intermittently, she attended the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, the University of Chicago and Northwestern University.
Intermittently, she attended the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, the University of Chicago and Northwestern University.
Intermittently, she attended the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, the University of Chicago and Northwestern University.
She made that observation in 1942 when she was a research physicist at the University of Illinois, but it was classified top secret and not announced until after World War II.
Born in Mannheim, Germany, she earned a doctoral degree at the University of Munich in 1935 and moved to England to do research at Imperial College in London.
She did research and taught at the University of Illinois from 1939 to 1950, when she became the first woman with a Ph.D. in physics on the Brookhaven faculty.
Over the years, she was an adjunct professor at Cornell University and the Johns Hopkins University.
Over the years, she was an adjunct professor at Cornell University and the Johns Hopkins University.

        Alice Hanson Cook, a Cornell University scholar, early feminist and longtime advocate of equal pay for women and support programs for working mothers, died on Feb. 7 at her home in Ithaca, N.Y., of complications from a stroke.
Professor Cook began work at Cornell in 1954 and was associated with the university for almost two decades, specializing in labor history in the School of Industrial and Labor Relations.
''
        Her retirement in 1972 was marked with the establishment of Cook's Grove in a Cornell quadrangle, identified by a plaque that read ''Teacher, Feminist, First University Ombudsman.
'' At the same event, she recalled the opening of the Cornell Faculty Club to women -- an event in which she played a pivotal role -- and her appointment as the university's first ombudsman.
She attended  Northwestern University, her mother's alma mater, where she was a co-founder of the student Liberal League to promote socialism, civil liberties and labor unions, and was involved in the Student League for Industrial Democracy.
Dr. Miel, a former resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan, moved to Gainesville after retiring from Teachers College at Columbia University in 1971.
Born on Feb. 21, 1906, in Six Lakes, Mich., she graduated in 1928 from the University of Michigan, where she earned a master's three years later.
A Rhodes Scholar, she earned a master's degree in Victorian literature in 1991 from Oxford University.
After graduating from the Shipley School in Bryn Mawr, Pa., she attended Vassar College and the University of Lausanne in Switzerland before marrying John Wade Sheppard.
She studied music at Indiana University in Bloomington, but suspended her studies during World War II to become a civilian flight instructor in Muncie, Ind.
at the University of Minnesota in 1962; she earned a doctor of laws degree at Harvard University in 1991.
at the University of Minnesota in 1962; she earned a doctor of laws degree at Harvard University in 1991.
Hughes was then a student at Lincoln University in Oxford, Pa., and went to Baltimore on weekends.
She attended the University of Michigan, then switched to Barnard College.
In 1936 she received a master's degree from the Columbia University School of Library Service.
Mrs. Hutson's work in developing the Schomburg caught the attention of President Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana, who asked her help in building an Africana collection at the University of Ghana.
By the time she got to the University of Wisconsin, Mrs. Kampen, who was born in Brooklyn and later lived in Great Neck, N.Y., was funny enough to become editor of the campus humor magazine.
Similarly, her daughter's wedding became ''Here Comes the Bride, There Goes the Mother'' (1967), and while Mrs. Kampen did not accompany the couple on their honeymoon, she was right there when they went to graduate school at the University of Wisconsin, turning out ''Due to Lack of Interest, Tomorrow Has Been Canceled,'' the story of a 45-year-old divorced woman who returns to college in the hippie era.
She was 69 and was a senior lecturer at Columbia University, where she had long been a mainstay in the department of Middle Eastern and Asian language and culture.
The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Dr. Wakin, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., moved to California as a teen-ager, beginning her college studies at the University of California at Los Angeles before completing her undergraduate studies at the New School for Social Research in New York.
She received a bachelor's degree and master's degree, both in modern languages, from Cambridge University in England.
It might yet have remained a mystery if within months of the book's publication, the world's crystallographers had not held their triennial meeting on Long Island, at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, practically next door to the Sayres' longtime home in the North Shore village of Head of the Harbor.
She received her law degree from New York University, worked for a while as a volunteer Legal Aid lawyer in Riverhead, N.Y., then in the late 1980's became town justice in Head of the Harbor, a post she held until illness forced her to step down in 1996.

        Rose Steinberg Stamler, a pioneer in the prevention and treatment of high blood pressure and a professor emeritus of preventive medicine at the Northwestern University Medical School, died on Feb. 28 at Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Arizona.
She graduated from Cornell University in 1938 and joined the staff of The New York Times in Washington in 1942 to write about women's news.
She took part in the International Studies Program at Columbia University, interviewed Madame Chiang Kai-shek and in 1947 joined the foreign desk staff in New York.
A native of Manhattan, she graduated from Teachers College, Columbia University, in 1943.
She also conducted a weekly broadcast, ''The World of Children's Literature,'' on WNYC radio in the 1970's and continued as a visiting lecturer on library sciences at Columbia University until 1979.
After moving to the South, she became the storyteller in residence at the University of South Carolina.
''
        She was born in Baltimore and graduated in 1933 from what is now the State University of New York at Albany, where she received a degree in library science the next year.
Her book ''Raphael's Bible: A Study of the Vatican Logge'' was published by Pennsylvania State University in 1983 and her articles appeared regularly in periodicals like the Art Bulletin, the Burlington Magazine and Master Drawings.
After working at the Frick for two years in the mid-1950's, conducting research for a new and complete catalogue of the museum's paintings, Ms. Davidson was chief curator of the Rhode Island School of Design Museum of Art from 1956 to 1960 and held part-time teaching positions at Brown University, Harvard University and, later, at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts.
After working at the Frick for two years in the mid-1950's, conducting research for a new and complete catalogue of the museum's paintings, Ms. Davidson was chief curator of the Rhode Island School of Design Museum of Art from 1956 to 1960 and held part-time teaching positions at Brown University, Harvard University and, later, at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts.
After working at the Frick for two years in the mid-1950's, conducting research for a new and complete catalogue of the museum's paintings, Ms. Davidson was chief curator of the Rhode Island School of Design Museum of Art from 1956 to 1960 and held part-time teaching positions at Brown University, Harvard University and, later, at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts.
In a career in which she worked as a social worker at hospitals, community centers and drug treatment programs before turning to teaching, Mrs. Coltoff, a native of Mount Vernon, N.Y., who graduated from Emerson College and received her master's in social work from Adelphi University, may have done her most inspired work simply because she developed breast cancer in 1981.
In one much-recounted episode, when she was having trouble deciding what field of study to pursue for her doctorate at the University of Zurich, Jung -- to  whom dreams were the windows to the psyche -- told her that one of her dreams pointed to the study of classical languages.

        Betsey Cushing Roosevelt Whitney, the widow of John Hay (Jock) Whitney, the first wife of James Roosevelt and the last of the three glamorous Cushing sisters of Boston, died yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 89.
''
        Not Exactly a Favorite Of Eleanor Roosevelt
        The young Roosevelts spent their early married life living with the Cushings, while the bridegroom studied law at the Boston University Law School.
She was a benefactor of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, built in the early 1950's on 15 acres donated by Mr. Whitney and Mrs. Payson.
Mrs. Whitney was also involved with the Museum of Modern Art, Yale University and New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
She was educated in New York, Haifa (in what was then known as Palestine), London and at Wellesley College, Ohio State University and New York University.
She was educated in New York, Haifa (in what was then known as Palestine), London and at Wellesley College, Ohio State University and New York University.
Starting in the 1940's, she intermittently lectured at Rutgers University.
She was a resident poet at Northeast Missouri University in 1992.
A native New Yorker, she graduated from New York University and, in 1929, from its law school.
Ms. Beechman was born in Philadelphia, attended New York University and made her Broadway debut in 1977 in the ensemble of ''Annie.
She was 69 and a senior lecturer at Columbia University, where she had long been a mainstay in the department of Middle East and Asia Language and Culture.
The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Dr. Wakin, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., moved to California as a teen-ager, beginning her college studies at the University of California at Los Angeles before completing her undergraduate studies at the New School for Social Research in New York.
She went from Hunter College, where she was student body president, to Columbia University Law School, where she was an editor of The Law Review, to a practice representing union workers.
Ms. Lestor graduated from London University with a diploma in sociology and went to work as a nursery school teacher, opening a nursery school in her own home six years later.
in French from McGill University in Montreal and a Ph.D. in French from Laval University in Quebec.
in French from McGill University in Montreal and a Ph.D. in French from Laval University in Quebec.
She then served as provincial superior and, after her term expired, became Professor Egan at Empire State College-State University of New York in 1972.
Leaving Dallas at the end of the 1950's to be near her sons, who had settled in Austin after graduation from the University of Texas, she took a job as a nurse at a private school, a position that gave her a year-round home in the school infirmary and left her with free time in the summer.
Ms. Holmes was born in Oakland, Calif. She received a Ph.D. in biochemistry from Columbia University in 1976.
Ms. McCartney attended Sarah Lawrence College and the University of Arizona.
She attended only the University of Arizona, not Sarah Lawrence College as well.
Over the years, Dr. Lukomnik held teaching, medical and administrative positions at Columbia University's School of Public Health, the United States Public Health Service, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Jersey City Family Health Center, among others.
She was raised in the Bronx, studied sociology and anthropology at Reed College, and graduated with a degree in fine arts from New York University in 1969.
in 1975 from the State University Health Science Center in Stony Brook, N.Y..
        She held a master's degree in public health from Columbia, and she studied sociology at the University of Edinburgh and social medicine at the Hadassah Medical School in Jerusalem.
in 1975 from the State University Health Science Center in Stony Brook, N.Y..
        She held a master's degree in public health from Columbia, and she studied sociology at the University of Edinburgh and social medicine at the Hadassah Medical School in Jerusalem.
A native of Nashville who obtained a bachelor's degree in education and a master's in fine arts from the University of Cincinnati in 1968, Dr. Schele (SHE-lee) was more or less contentedly teaching studio art at the University of South Alabama in Mobile when her husband, a Cincinnati-trained architect who had long been fascinated with pre-Columbian architecture, suggested that the couple spend their 1970 Christmas vacation visiting Mayan ruins in Mexico.
A native of Nashville who obtained a bachelor's degree in education and a master's in fine arts from the University of Cincinnati in 1968, Dr. Schele (SHE-lee) was more or less contentedly teaching studio art at the University of South Alabama in Mobile when her husband, a Cincinnati-trained architect who had long been fascinated with pre-Columbian architecture, suggested that the couple spend their 1970 Christmas vacation visiting Mayan ruins in Mexico.
A woman of infectious enthusiasm, Dr. Schele, who had no special interest in the Mayan civilization, threw herself into the project, securing a grant to take photographs for the university collection and recruiting three art students for the trip.
She remained at South Alabama until she had obtained a doctorate in Latin American studies from the University of Texas and become a professor of art there in 1981, but Dr. Schele spent virtually every spare moment at Palenque and other Mayan sites.
When it was suggested that she and a young Calgary University student at the meeting, Peter Matthews, try to translate the inscriptions on the monuments at Palenque, it took the pair only three hours to discover that the inscriptions provided an incredibly detailed history of the Palenque dynasty.
She earned a bachelor's degree from Newton College of the Sacred Heart in Newton, Mass., and a master's degree in political science from Rutgers University.
She graduated from the University of Alabama and was the theater critic and arts editor for The States Times in Jackson before starting her theater.
When she left the Met in 1950, she toured as a recitalist for two years, then devoted herself to teaching, first at Indiana University, then Florida State University and, starting in 1959, the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, where she remained until 1974, when she retired.
When she left the Met in 1950, she toured as a recitalist for two years, then devoted herself to teaching, first at Indiana University, then Florida State University and, starting in 1959, the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, where she remained until 1974, when she retired.
She did graduate work at the University of Michigan, the Juilliard School of Music, the Paris Conservatory and the American Academy at Fontainebleu.
In an association with Columbia University that spanned five decades, she founded its Division of Community and Social Psychiatry and directed it from 1956 to 1969.
A Manhattan native, she graduated from New York University in 1933 and earned her medical degree from Cornell University Medical College in 1936.
A Manhattan native, she graduated from New York University in 1933 and earned her medical degree from Cornell University Medical College in 1936.
The cause was Parkinson's disease, according to Teachers College of Columbia University, where Dr. Lambertsen headed the department of nursing education from 1961 to 1970 and taught doctoral courses on nursing leadership into the late 1980's.
A native of New York City who was adopted by an aunt, Ms. Epstein had grown up in Chicago, graduated from the University of Chicago and studied at the Art Institute of Chicago before coming to New York, where she held a series of editing jobs and tried her hand at writing, once taking off six months to work on a novel in Greece.
She also earned a master's degree in teaching at New York University.

        Maria Torok, a psychoanalyst in France whose rejection of Freud's ideas was welcomed in feminist circles and whose new methods for confronting pain and trauma drew many Holocaust survivors to her offices in Paris, died on March 25 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
The cause was complications of leukemia, said Dr. Nicholas Rand, her husband and a professor of French literature at the University of Wisconsin.
Ms. Torok's work, much of it published with Nicolas Abraham, her main collaborator, rejected most of Freud's core ideas, said Dr. Nelly Furman, a professor of French at Cornell University.
Collaborating with Mr. Abraham, she wrote ''The Shell and the Kernel: Renewals of Psychoanalysis'' (University of Chicago Press, 1994) and ''The Wolf Man's Magic Word'' (University of Minnesota Press, 1976), which explores a classic case in Freud's writings, a study of the delusions of a patient of Freud's known as the Wolf Man.
Collaborating with Mr. Abraham, she wrote ''The Shell and the Kernel: Renewals of Psychoanalysis'' (University of Chicago Press, 1994) and ''The Wolf Man's Magic Word'' (University of Minnesota Press, 1976), which explores a classic case in Freud's writings, a study of the delusions of a patient of Freud's known as the Wolf Man.
With Dr. Rand, Ms. Torok wrote and edited ''Questions for Freud: The Secret History of Psychoanalysis'' (Harvard University Press, 1998), and edited ''Rhythms: On the Work, Translation and Psychoanalysis'' (Stanford University Press, 1995).
With Dr. Rand, Ms. Torok wrote and edited ''Questions for Freud: The Secret History of Psychoanalysis'' (Harvard University Press, 1998), and edited ''Rhythms: On the Work, Translation and Psychoanalysis'' (Stanford University Press, 1995).
Born in Budapest, Ms. Torok went to Paris in 1947 and received a bachelor's degree in psychology from the University of Paris in 1955.
In addition to her writing, Mrs. Douglas taught at the University of Miami from 1925 to 1929 and also lectured at Pennsylvania State University in the late 1920's.
In addition to her writing, Mrs. Douglas taught at the University of Miami from 1925 to 1929 and also lectured at Pennsylvania State University in the late 1920's.
She served on the editorial board of the University of Miami Press and for a time wrote book reviews.

        Belle Zeller, an emeritus professor of political science at Brooklyn College and a scholar of the legislative process who was an indomitable leader of unions representing City University of New York professors for more than 30 years, died on Friday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
From 1944 until 1972, Dr. Zeller was the chairwoman of the Legislative Conference of the City Colleges, a lobbying group that later became the first union to represent the permanent faculty in the City University system.
In 1937, she received a Ph.D. in political science from Columbia University.
Throughout her long career, Dr. Zeller was the recipient of numerous academic awards, including an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the Graduate School of City University in 1985 and the President's Medal from Brooklyn College on the institution's 50th anniversary in 1980.
But when her husband was transferred to Washington a couple of years later, her unofficial formal education came to an end because Georgetown University would not admit women.
But she decided to sell it and accept an offer to teach at the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music, remaining there until she retired in 1993.
She also taught at the University of Utah and the North Carolina School of the Arts and was an adjudicator, arranging programs for regional ballet festivals.
Born in Danville, Va., and educated at Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia and at New York University, Ms. Carden taught at Radford College in Virginia before coming to Brooklyn College in 1955.
Born in Danville, Va., and educated at Mary Washington College of the University of Virginia and at New York University, Ms. Carden taught at Radford College in Virginia before coming to Brooklyn College in 1955.
Mrs. Briley was born in Nashville and graduated from Vanderbilt University.
For one thing, she and her husband, Stuart, a microbiologist at the University of Pennsylvania, had helped start Pennsylvania's first birth control clinic six years earlier, and her experiences there dealing with often overburdened and sometimes abused wives had led her to see the need for broader family counseling.
Working part time until she obtained a master's in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Mudd, who eventually received her doctorate there, became the council's full-time executive director in 1936 and held the post until her retirement in 1967.
Only the third woman to be named to the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania's medical school, Dr. Mudd, who later became the first woman to become a full professor there, taught the first course at an American medical school dealing with sexuality, a speciality that led her to help edit Alfred Kinsey's book on female sexuality and to work closely with the Masters and Johnson clinic in St. Louis, to which she contributed thousands of case histories from her own practice.
After her retirement from the Philadelphia Marriage Council, now affiliated with the University of Pennsylvania, Dr. Mudd, who remarried after her first husband's death in 1975, continued to see patients well into her 80's.

        Marjorie Lansing, a political scientist and sometime politician whose scholarly delineation of a gender gap in American voting patterns helped change the shape of political campaigns and spurred women into politics in the 1980's, died on May 1 at a hospital near her home in Ann Arbor, Mich. She was 82 and had been a professor of political science at Eastern Michigan University.
In 1949 the Lansings moved to Ann Arbor, where he became a professor of economics at the University of Michigan and she became active in the Democratic Party while rearing three children, studying for a Ph.D. in political science at Michigan and teaching at Eastern Michigan.
It is a measure of Dr. Lansing's prescience, if not of her influence, that three years after her landmark study, ''Women in Politics: The Invisible Majority,'' was published by the University of Michigan Press, a revised edition carried the subtitle, ''The Visible Majority.
The college, now known as Florida State University, is in Tallahassee, not Gainesville.
She graduated from Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, was an actress in Canada and studied drama at the New School for Social Research, in Manhattan.
Professor Grenander, known as M. E. Grenander, taught at the State University of New York at Albany  from 1948 until she retired in 1989 as a Distinguished Service Professor of English.
She gave more than $1 million to SUNY Albany, including $500,000 to establish a professorship in memory of her husband, James W. Corbett, a  professor of physics at the same university, who died in 1994.
Lisa James of the university's Office of University Relations said that Professor Grenander and her husband prospered ''through long-term investments in the stock market.
Lisa James of the university's Office of University Relations said that Professor Grenander and her husband prospered ''through long-term investments in the stock market.
''
        She was born in Rewey, Wis., and received bachelor's and master's degrees and a doctorate, all in English from the University of Chicago, in the 1940's.

        Lois Mailou Jones, an American painter and an art teacher for almost a half century at Howard University in Washington, died at her home in Washington on Tuesday.
After graduate study in art and design in Boston, and then a stint teaching art at Palmer Memorial Institute in Sedalia, N.C., Ms. Jones joined the faculty of Howard University in 1930.
In 1934, while attending a summer session at Columbia University, she was exposed to the cultural life of Harlem, and began studying the African masks that would become central to her best-known paintings.
There she interviewed contemporary artists as part of a  project sponsored by Howard University titled ''The Black Visual Artists,'' for which she also documented the work of artists in the Caribbean and the United States.
Throughout these years, Ms. Jones taught at Howard University and elsewhere.
She received a bachelor's degree in education from the University of Cincinnati in 1932 and a master's in social work from the University of Pennsylvania in 1935.
She received a bachelor's degree in education from the University of Cincinnati in 1932 and a master's in social work from the University of Pennsylvania in 1935.
She received her Ph.D. in 1980 from Northern Indiana University.
After attending the University of Georgia she married Ben Scott Whaley, who became a prominent Charleston lawyer, served a term in the state legislature, was United States Attorney for Charleston in the Truman Administration and played a crucial role in creating his wife's garden.
Yearning for a career as an opera singer, she studied at the Settlement School of Music in Philadelphia, and at Temple University and New York University.
Yearning for a career as an opera singer, she studied at the Settlement School of Music in Philadelphia, and at Temple University and New York University.
By 1942, Mrs. Lipman had published her first book, ''American Primitive Painting'' (Oxford University Press), which remains a standard reference work.
She earned a bachelor's degree from Wellesley College and a master's degree in fine arts from New York University.
In recent years her work has been exhibited in solo shows at several galleries and at the Arizona State University's Art Museum in Tempe.
In May the university's College of Arts presented her with its Distinguished Achievement Award.
      
Mrs. Davies, whose husband, Ralph K. Davies, an oil millionaire, died in 1971, bestowed millions of dollars on many cultural, educational and medical charities in the Bay Area, including the Exploratorium, the World Affairs Council, the Conservatory of Music, the University of San Francisco, Stanford University and the San Francisco Opera.
Mrs. Davies, whose husband, Ralph K. Davies, an oil millionaire, died in 1971, bestowed millions of dollars on many cultural, educational and medical charities in the Bay Area, including the Exploratorium, the World Affairs Council, the Conservatory of Music, the University of San Francisco, Stanford University and the San Francisco Opera.
She received a bachelor of arts in economics and a master's in economic history from the University of East Anglia in England, where she later taught.
It was through her affiliation with  Yale that she was able to apply for her patients' participation in the university's experimental research in  AIDS medication and treatment.
Born in Charleston, Ill., Ms. Peterka attended the academy herself after graduating from Eastern Illinois University.

        Helen Carter, a singer and musician who was part of the Carter family dynasty of country-music entertainers, died on Tuesday at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn. She was 70 and lived in Dickson, Tenn.
        She had been hospitalized for gastrointestinal problems that began over a year ago, said Kelly Hancock of House of Cash, the business office of Johnny Cash, Mrs. Carter's brother-in-law, and of her sister June Carter Cash.

        Patsy Southgate, a writer and translator who helped inspire the literary flowering of Paris in the 1950's and later helped establish the writers' colony on eastern Long Island, becoming a beloved intimate of many of the leading artists of her day, died on July 18 at the Stony Brook University Hospital and Medical Center.
Mr. Styron made it a major setting for his 1960 novel, ''Set This House on Fire,'' and it was there that Mr. Matthiessen and Harold L. Humes founded The Paris Review, summoning Mr. Matthiessen's boyhood friend, George Plimpton, from his studies at Cambridge University to run it.
''
        In 1940, she married Mike Frankovich, a Columbia studio executive and former football star at the University of California at Los Angeles.

        Betty Lehan Harragan, a writer, consultant and advocate for women's equality in the workplace, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center.
A native of Milwaukee, she graduated from Marquette University in there in 1944.
She received a master's degree in English literature in 1947 from Columbia University.
By the time Ms. Timoner enrolled in Southern Connecticut State College in New Haven, she had developed expansive dreams that included later study at the University of Jerusalem.
By the 1950's, their collective enrollment had passed 100,000 and the board had steered their evolution into today's City University of New York.
A native of Oakland, Calif., she was a graduate of Stanford University.
A native of Stonington, Ill., she was educated at Knox College and the University of Illinois.
She received an honors degree in English from Somerville College, Oxford University, in 1926, and immigrated to the United States two years later.
Ms. Standen also did volunteer work for the photo collection of Harvard University's Fogg Art Museum.
She is survived by two sons, Carl, of Washington, where he is the bureau chief of The Dallas Morning News, and John, of Manhattan, a law professor at Rutgers University, and three grandsons.
      
After graduating from the Girls' Latin School at 16, she attended Boston University and the Columbia University School of Journalism.
After graduating from the Girls' Latin School at 16, she attended Boston University and the Columbia University School of Journalism.
She was a 1951 sociology graduate of Syracuse University, earned a master's degree in social-studies education at Harvard University and completed a program in school administration at New York University in 1968.
She was a 1951 sociology graduate of Syracuse University, earned a master's degree in social-studies education at Harvard University and completed a program in school administration at New York University in 1968.
She was a 1951 sociology graduate of Syracuse University, earned a master's degree in social-studies education at Harvard University and completed a program in school administration at New York University in 1968.
She was 99, and it seems almost beside the point to note that she had been an agricultural economist for the University of Connecticut.
Never one to be hampered by convention, Miss Smith went to work for the agriculture department of the Connecticut Agricultural College before she received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago; became an assistant professor at the University of Connecticut (as the agricultural college became in 1938)  before she received a master's degree from Radcliffe College, and never did bother to get a doctorate, although she did complete postgraduate studies at the London School of Economics.
Never one to be hampered by convention, Miss Smith went to work for the agriculture department of the Connecticut Agricultural College before she received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago; became an assistant professor at the University of Connecticut (as the agricultural college became in 1938)  before she received a master's degree from Radcliffe College, and never did bother to get a doctorate, although she did complete postgraduate studies at the London School of Economics.
With three of her four older brothers serving in the military in World War I, she was so eager to do her part that, ignoring her mother's objections, she dropped out of the University of Chicago to enlist in the Women's Land Army, a paramilitary organization that sought to fill the vacuum left by mobilized farm workers.
By 1931, Miss Smith had found her life's work in academia, but after a decade as a statistician and consumer price specialist at the University of Connecticut, she decided that it was time to complete her own college education.
It may not say much about Pennsylvania that the first black woman to gain a seat on a state bench was born in Wewoka, Okla., received a bachelor's degree from the University of Iowa and studied law at Indiana University, but it is to the state's credit that once Judge Stout established a practice in Philadelphia in 1954 it did not take the local legal community long to recognize that it had gained a treasure.
It may not say much about Pennsylvania that the first black woman to gain a seat on a state bench was born in Wewoka, Okla., received a bachelor's degree from the University of Iowa and studied law at Indiana University, but it is to the state's credit that once Judge Stout established a practice in Philadelphia in 1954 it did not take the local legal community long to recognize that it had gained a treasure.
She might have grown up poor, but her parents were both teachers, and Judge Stout, who credited her mother with instilling her lifelong habit of hard work, learned to read at 3, entered the third grade at 6 and started college at 16, first at a black school in nearby Missouri and later at the University of Iowa before returning to Oklahoma as a music teacher.
Seeking work in Washington in World War II, she landed a job at a law firm and was so good at taking legal dictation that she began to study law, first in Washington and later at Indiana University, where she obtained two law degrees while her husband, Charles Otis Stout, was studying for his doctorate.
After earning a nursing degree at the Catholic University of America in Washington in 1952, she quickly became an operating room supervisor, performing her duties at a series of hospitals with such efficiency and flair that three years later she was made administrator of Our Lady of Lourdes Memorial Hospital in Binghamton, N.Y., the first of several hospitals nationwide she ran for the order.
She attended Columbia University  and in the 1950's was married briefly to Stan Lewis.
Miss Mitchell, who received a master's in English from the University of Edinburgh, trained to be a teacher, spent five years teaching at an Edinburgh girls school, then came to the United States in 1936 as a postgraduate fellow at Smith College.
Earlier, she was an administrator of fund-raising and development at Columbia University.
She received her medical degree at the University of Wisconsin and became an internist specializing in endocrinology.
Her early education was in a one-room country school, and she returned to teach there for two years after graduating from the University of Missouri in 1933.
and a Ph.D. in physical chemistry, also at Missouri, and started her college teaching career at Sophie Newcomb College of Tulane University in 1940.
Ms. Mosby, a native of Missoula, Mont., and a graduate of the University of Montana, joined United Press,  which later became U.P.I., in Seattle in 1943.

        Dr. Mary Lou Clements-Mann, an epidemiologist and vaccine expert who headed the center for immunization research at the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health in Baltimore, died with her husband in Wednesday night's plane crash off Nova Scotia.
Dr. Clements-Mann was a 1968 graduate of Texas Tech University and earned her medical degree at the University of Texas in 1972.
Dr. Clements-Mann was a 1968 graduate of Texas Tech University and earned her medical degree at the University of Texas in 1972.
She also received a doctorate in tropical medicine from the University of London in 1975 and a master's degree in public health, specifically epidemiology, from Johns Hopkins in 1979, the year she first joined the staff at the university's school of medicine.
She also received a doctorate in tropical medicine from the University of London in 1975 and a master's degree in public health, specifically epidemiology, from Johns Hopkins in 1979, the year she first joined the staff at the university's school of medicine.
In the early 1980's she was associated with the University of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore and  was chief of the clinical studies section in its Center for Vaccine Development in 1985 when Johns Hopkins named her an associate professor in the Department of International Health, School of Hygiene and Public Health.
The couple's philanthropy began with some scholarships to Texas Tech University in Lubbock, and later with a ranch they bought and turned into the Don Harrington Boy Scout Camp.
By the time she returned to school at age 50 to pick up a master's degree at the University of Iowa and qualify for a college position, Mrs. Irwin, who joined the Iowa State faculty in 1969, had seen enough teen-agers to fuel her literary career.
''
        After graduating from the University of Pennsylvania and earning an M.B.A. at Harvard, she began working on Wall Street.

        Francelia Butler, a late-blooming academic of such passionate, unorthodox ways that she has been credited with almost single-handedly transforming the study of children's literature from a stepchild of library science into a recognized academic discipline, died last Friday at a nursing home in Windham, Conn. A resident of Mansfield Hollow, Conn., she was 85 and had been a professor at the University of Connecticut.
When they hired her in 1965, it's a safe bet that the men who ran the English department at the University of Connecticut knew that Dr. Butler, a native of Cleveland who grew up in Elyria, Ohio, was a 52-year-old widow who had returned to school after her husband's death, received a doctorate in Renaissance literature from the University of Virginia just two years earlier and spent the intervening years teaching at the University of Tennessee.
When they hired her in 1965, it's a safe bet that the men who ran the English department at the University of Connecticut knew that Dr. Butler, a native of Cleveland who grew up in Elyria, Ohio, was a 52-year-old widow who had returned to school after her husband's death, received a doctorate in Renaissance literature from the University of Virginia just two years earlier and spent the intervening years teaching at the University of Tennessee.
When they hired her in 1965, it's a safe bet that the men who ran the English department at the University of Connecticut knew that Dr. Butler, a native of Cleveland who grew up in Elyria, Ohio, was a 52-year-old widow who had returned to school after her husband's death, received a doctorate in Renaissance literature from the University of Virginia just two years earlier and spent the intervening years teaching at the University of Tennessee.
Along the way Dr. Butler's own course became one of the largest and most popular at the University of Connecticut, in part because she turned it into something resembling a three-ring circus with a string of guest lecturers that included falconers, puppeteers, troubadours, Maurice Sendak, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Bruno Bettelheim, Dr. Benjamin Spock, Big Bird and the Wicked Witch of the West (the actress Margaret Hamilton).
When, by her account, her upstart Journal was actually banned from the University of Connecticut bookstore, Dr. Butler found another academic sponsor: Yale University.
When, by her account, her upstart Journal was actually banned from the University of Connecticut bookstore, Dr. Butler found another academic sponsor: Yale University.
)
        Although her male colleagues suggested that the university had been more supportive than she claimed, after her retirement in 1992 at the age of 79, Dr. Butler, who typically had led the campaign that overturned Connecticut's mandatory retirement at 70, transferred her journal and her papers to Hollins College in Virginia.
She attended Northwestern University on a scholarship from the Junior Miss Foundation, majoring in drama.
Her death on Sept. 11 at her apartment in Manhattan -- at the age of 85, in her own bed, after a long, peaceful retirement and a distinguished career as an assistant professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work -- was a triumphant flick of her hand, almost six decades coming, to the German soldiers who had arrived in the small city of Kolomyja in eastern Poland (now Ukraine) on July 3, 1941, and tacked up posters that declared in three languages, ''Death to All Jews.
''
        As Mrs. Rosenberg made clear in her book, ''To Tell at Last'' (University of Illinois Press), it did not take too many aktions in the increasingly depopulated Kolomyja ghetto for it to become apparent that the Nazi regime intended to kill each and every Jew in Poland -- including those, like Mrs. Rosenberg and Dr. Rosenbloom, who had documents identifying them as essential workers at a clothing factory.
At the time of the German invasion, Mrs. Rosenberg, a native of Gorlice who had studied law at the University of Cracow, was the 27-year-old wife of a doctor who had escaped the Nazis by accepting a medical assignment with the retreating Soviet Army, leaving her behind with an infant son, Zygmund, and her adored younger brother, Romek.

        Carol Kay, a professor of 18th-century literature and culture at the University of Pittsburgh, died on Sept. 12 at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh.
Ms. Kay wrote ''Political Constructions'' (Cornell University Press, 1988), which examined the political history, moral philosophy and fiction between the English civil war and the French Revolution.
Claudia L. Johnson, a professor of English at Princeton University, called the book ''one of this generation's most important studies of 18th-century fiction.
''
        Ms. Kay graduated from Radcliffe College in 1967 and received her Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1975.
She held faculty appointments at Amherst College, at Washington University in St. Louis and at New York University.
She held faculty appointments at Amherst College, at Washington University in St. Louis and at New York University.
In 1989 she became an associate professor of English at the University of Pittsburgh.
Dr. Allan Rosenfield, dean of the Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University, said, ''Dr.
She received her medical degree in 1951 from New York University, graduated in 1962 from the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute in Manhattan and practiced psychiatry and psychoanalysis from 1957 to 1970 in Manhattan.
She graduated from American University here and lived in Arlington, Va., with her husband, William J. Weller, whom she married in 1990.
Mrs. Hamerstrom and her husband, Frederick, met and married on the East Coast and then both attended the University of Iowa, where Mrs. Hamerstrom, always proud that she had flunked out of Smith College, received a bachelor's degree in 1935.
They also both went to the University of Wisconsin at Madison, where they studied with the conservationist Aldo Leopold, the author of ''Sand County Almanac.
In the 1930's, Frances Hamerstrom was one of the first women to ''crash the barrier into the all-male wildlife research profession,'' said Dr. Ray Anderson, a retired professor at the University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point.
A graduate of the University of Wisconsin, Ms. Topf received her primary training from Merce Cunningham and Barbara Clark but also studied with Robert Joffrey, Anna Halprin, Steve Paxton and the H. B.
She earned a bachelor's degree in fine arts from the University of Georgia and studied at the Art Students League in New York before earning a Master of Arts from Long Island University.
She earned a bachelor's degree in fine arts from the University of Georgia and studied at the Art Students League in New York before earning a Master of Arts from Long Island University.
She taught at Cooper Union, the New School for Social Research, New York University and the City College of New York and gave private lessons.
''Mother Cleusa represented the continuity of an important line in Candomble,'' said Jeferson Bacelar, an anthropology professor at the Center for the Afro-Oriental Studies at the Federal University of Bahia.
degree in 1939 from the University of Rochester and a master's degree in public health in 1942 from the Columbia University School of Public Health.
degree in 1939 from the University of Rochester and a master's degree in public health in 1942 from the Columbia University School of Public Health.
After stepping down from the presidency, she joined New York University as an adjunct professor in its program on human sexuality.
She returned to school to earn a master's degree at Columbia University Teachers College in 1953 and taught at preparatory schools until retiring from the Masters School in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., in the late 1960's.
She earned a bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Pennsylvania and in 1942 married Warren Goff, a law student who became a lighting consultant.
In her spare time, she raised funds for several East End causes and institutions, from the Animal Rescue Fund to the John Steinbeck Writers' Room at the Southampton campus of Long Island University.

        Lila Katzen, a sculptor whose abstract works have adorned spaces from Fordham University's campus at Lincoln Center to the United States Consulate in Hamburg, Germany, died Sept. 20 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
Throughout her life Ms. Katzen was a visiting professor at schools around the country, including Wichita State University, Lehman College in New York and Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Denize, and a son, Hal, all of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
In ''Samurai and Silk: A Japanese and American Heritage'' (Harvard University Press, 1986) she told the story of her two grandfathers: one, born to a peasant family, became a wealthy silk merchant in New York; the other, from a samurai family, rose to be Prime Minister twice and a powerful Finance Minister responsible for overhauling Japan's financial system in the 19th century.
Robert Immerman, a senior research associate at Columbia University's East Asian Institute, who also worked at the American Embassy when she was there, said that before her marriage in 1956, ''she was never at home in either culture.

        Jean Andrus Crockett, the first chairwoman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and first chairwoman of the finance department at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, died on Saturday at her home in Media, Pa. She was 79.
''
        Ms. Crockett was born April 20, 1919, in Tucson, Ariz. Before joining the Wharton faculty in 1954, she was a mathematics instructor at the University of Arizona, an assistant professor of economics at the University of Illinois, a staff researcher for the Cowles Commission at the University of Chicago and an economist with the Commerce Department.
''
        Ms. Crockett was born April 20, 1919, in Tucson, Ariz. Before joining the Wharton faculty in 1954, she was a mathematics instructor at the University of Arizona, an assistant professor of economics at the University of Illinois, a staff researcher for the Cowles Commission at the University of Chicago and an economist with the Commerce Department.
''
        Ms. Crockett was born April 20, 1919, in Tucson, Ariz. Before joining the Wharton faculty in 1954, she was a mathematics instructor at the University of Arizona, an assistant professor of economics at the University of Illinois, a staff researcher for the Cowles Commission at the University of Chicago and an economist with the Commerce Department.
In 1989, she received the university's Distinguished Faculty Award for ''pioneering all-University leadership and for dedication to furthering the careers of junior colleagues and graduate students.
At the time of her death, Ms. Baer was working with the dance historian Lynn Garafola on ''The Ballets Russes and Its World,'' a book to be published by Yale University Press.
''
        As Maria Flores, Ms. Main wrote two other books based on events in Latin American dictatorships: the novel ''The Call From Calle Moreno,'' about a doctor called in to treat a victim of Juan Peron's police, and ''The Benefactor,'' a story inspired by the disappearance of the Columbia University professor Jesus de Galindez, who was widely assumed to have been kidnapped by agents of Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator.
After attending Barnard College for one year, she married Mr. Cahn, a lawyer and later a constitutional law professor at New York University, who died in 1964.
Ms. Miller eventually received degrees from the University of Houston and taught creative writing at the University of St. Thomas, near her home.
Ms. Miller eventually received degrees from the University of Houston and taught creative writing at the University of St. Thomas, near her home.
Ms. Walsh graduated from Johns Hopkins University in 1984 and from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1988.
Ms. Walsh graduated from Johns Hopkins University in 1984 and from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in 1988.
A native of Newark, she received a bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University and later studied social work at Columbia.
Born Margaret Abigail Walker in 1915 in Birmingham, Ala., to a minister who was educated at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., she followed in her father's footsteps.
A precocious child, Margaret learned to read while still a toddler and began writing poetry at 15 when she entered the university.
She received a Ph.D. from the University of Iowa.
Dr. Alexander later became a professor at Jackson State University, where she founded the Institute for the Study of the History, Life and Culture of Black People in 1968.

        Virginia L. Radley, who as the first female president of a state university college in New York created a general education division and an honors program on the Oswego campus, died on Sunday at her home in Poestenkill, near Albany.
She was named acting president of the State University College at Oswego two years later.
at the University of Rochester and M.S.
and Ph.D. degrees at Syracuse University.
She attended the University of Chicago, where she majored in anthropology and received a Phi Beta Kappa key.
She then studied journalism at Northwestern University, and received a master's degree.
Dr. Nyswander (pronounced nice-wonder) was a founder of the School of Public Health at the University of California at Berkeley after World War II.
She earned bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of Nevada and in 1926 received a doctorate in educational psychology at Berkeley.
She was a leader of the University of Chicago school of imagist poets, and if hers is not a household name, by the time she died on Monday at the age of 99 in the house in Los Altos, Calif., she had occupied for two-thirds of a century, Janet Lewis had the satisfaction of knowing she had written poetry throughout the 20th century and seen it published and praised in every decade since the first.
After two years at a junior college, Miss Lewis completed her education at the University of Chicago, majoring in French while joining the famous Poetry Club and meeting Mr. Winters, who had spent time at a tuberculosis sanitarium in Santa Fe, N.M.
        After a brief stay in Paris after graduation in 1920, Miss Lewis returned to Chicago but soon contracted tuberculosis herself and spent five years at the same sanitarium, engaging in a passionate correspondence with Mr. Winters and eventually marrying him and following him to California, where she threw herself into a satisfying domestic life that included tending to her husband's registered Airedales, harvesting the fruit from the adjacent orchard and serving as a sort of serene den mother to an extended, animated family of her husband's awed acolytes.
So Enmeshed In Daily Life
        These poems by Janet Lewis are both from ''Poems Old and New; 1918-1978,'' Swallow Press/Ohio University Press, 1981.
After graduating from Barnard College, Miss Bishop intended to go to medical school, but the stock market crash forced her to take a job as a chemist at Columbia University Medical Center, where she worked for a leading dermatologist, investigating allergies and cosmetics.
Dr. Abel was a leader in cross-cultural psychological research, which became her main focus after retiring from a career largely in family therapy in New York, said Dr. Samuel Roll, a professor of psychology at the University of New Mexico.
from Columbia University in 1924 and her Ph.D. from Columbia in 1925.
Decades later, Dr. Mead, by then known worldwide for her work in anthropology, wrote the introduction for Dr. Abel's book ''Culture and Psychotherapy'' (College and University Press, 1975), written with Rhoda Metraux.
Dr. Abel taught at the University of Illinois and at Sarah Lawrence College and later became the director of research at the Manhattan Trade School for Girls.
When she was 88, she collaborated on a new version of her 1975 book, this time called ''Psychotherapy and Culture'' (University of New Mexico Press, 1987), with Dr.
Also in 1971, she became a clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of New Mexico, and at the university's Child Guidance Center she became chief of family therapy service.
Also in 1971, she became a clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of New Mexico, and at the university's Child Guidance Center she became chief of family therapy service.

        Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall since 1986, died on Friday at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center in Denver.
Ms. Arron was born in Seattle and graduated from the University of Puget Sound with a performance degree in cello and piano.
