After earning a Ph.D. in psychology from Catholic University of America in 1938, she started the psychology department at New Rochelle and headed it from 1942 to 1967.
She was an associate professor of psychology at Fordham University from 1967 to 1973, also serving as dean of St. Mary's Residence Hall for nuns doing graduate work at Fordham.

        Martha Barber Montgomery, assistant vice president for program evaluation at Drexel University in Philadelphia, died Saturday at Presbyterian Hospital in Philadelphia.
She was 62 years old..
        She died of cancer, university officials said.
Dr. Montgomery, who held a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Pennsylvania, joined the Drexel faculty in 1972.

        Gretchen Householder Poston, the White House social secretary in the Carter Administration, died Monday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington.
She also attended Oxford University and was a trustee emeritus of Marywood College in Scranton.
She devoted herself to the affairs of the Community Medical Center in Scranton, Worthington Scranton Campus of Pennsylvania State University, United Way, Community Services of Pennsylvania, Lackawanna County Welfare Council and Pennsylvania Citizens Association, among others.

        Evelyn Tennyson Openhym, a book collector and benefactor of Alfred University in western New York, died on Jan. 13 at her home in Wellsville, N.Y. She was 89 years old.
She died of cancer, said Edward G. Coll Jr., president of the university, where she was a trustee.
She compiled and wrote a 566-page bibliography for her collection, which she donated to the university in 1981.
Mrs. Openhym had a family connection to Alfred University dating to the mid-1840's.
Dr. Pike, a native of London, was a graduate of Hunter College and Tulane University with a Ph.D. from Columbia University.
Dr. Pike, a native of London, was a graduate of Hunter College and Tulane University with a Ph.D. from Columbia University.
A native of Newark, Mrs. Lerner studied drama at New York University and wrote several plays.
Mrs. Simon, whose nickname was Aye, was born in Milwaukee and attended the University of Wisconsin.
During World War II she worked as a mathematician at Columbia University's Statistical Research Group, a secret project to aid the military.
Mrs. Chow was educated at Sophia University in Tokyo.
Mrs. Chow was educated at Sophia University in Tokyo.
Her longest tenure was at Rutgers University, where she taught from 1954 to 1971.
"
        She earned a bachelor of arts degree from Randolph-Macon Women's College and bachelor of science and master's degrees from Columbia University, where she studied under a Carnegie fellowship.
She was a librarian and professor of library service at New Jersey State Teachers College in Trenton from 1942-54, with a two-year leave as a visiting professor at the University of Teheran and library adviser to Iran.
She also taught at the University of Virginia and Emory University.
She also taught at the University of Virginia and Emory University.
After settling in the United States in 1938, Ms. Jablonski earned a bachelor's degree from Cornell University in 1942 and a master's in journalism from Columbia University in 1943.
After settling in the United States in 1938, Ms. Jablonski earned a bachelor's degree from Cornell University in 1942 and a master's in journalism from Columbia University in 1943.
The company was formed by Dr. John W. Mauchly and J. Presper Eckert, who in 1946 had developed one of the world's first electronic computers, ENIAC, at the University of Pennsylvania.
As a lieutenant assigned to the Bureau of Ordnance Computation Project at Harvard University, she worked as a programmer on a calculating device called the Mark I, a precursor electronic computers.
"
        Dame Judith's 1937 marriage to Benjamin Harrison Lehman, a professor of English at the University of California at Berkeley, ended in divorce in 1939.
The center is co-sponsored by Columbia University's School of Social Work and the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services.
She was chairwoman of Columbia's Advisory Committee for Ethnic Studies and served on its Commission on the Future of the University, the University Senate and the Faculty Executive Committee.
She was chairwoman of Columbia's Advisory Committee for Ethnic Studies and served on its Commission on the Future of the University, the University Senate and the Faculty Executive Committee.
Born Shirley Presberg in New York City, she earned a bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College, a master's degree from Columbia and a doctorate from New York University.
She also wrote "American Economic Policy Toward the Philippines" (Stanford University, 1954).
In the early 1940's she received bachelor's and master's degrees in physical education, specializing in dance, from San Francisco State College and the University of Oregon, respectively.
She was a dance adviser for the Arizona Commission on the Arts and directed the University of Utah's Opportunity Theater and Dance Workshop, a summer program.
Mrs. Gregory was born in Bremen, Germany, and graduated from the University of Geneva and Ecole des Interpretes in Geneva.
A native of Manhattan, Ms. Samuel came to the city schools in 1983 with several years of experience in children's educational programs at New York University and the Community Service Society.
Ms. Samuel, who graduated from Rider College and attended Montclair State College, left her post last year to seek a Ph.D. at Harvard University in the urban superintendents program.
She attended the university until overcome by illness earlier this winter.
Educated at Cornell and Teachers College of Columbia University, she taught voice and English diction at the Mannes College of Music and the Manhattan School of Music.
"
        Ms. Paris, who was born in Manhattan, earned degrees in drama from the University of California at Los Angeles and Goddard College in Plainfield, Vt. She was playwright in residence at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and taught at the School of Visual Arts and the New School in Manhattan.
Surviving are her husband, Michael, a mathematics professor at Pace University; three stepchildren, David of Manhattan, Daniel of Highland Park, Ill., and Donald of Brooklyn, and three brothers, Charles Frank of Ardsley, N.Y., and Howard and Edward Frank, both of Boston.
      
She also organized conferences on bereavement for Yeshiva University.
After graduating from the University of New Mexico, she earned a master's degree in social work at Adelphi University.
After graduating from the University of New Mexico, she earned a master's degree in social work at Adelphi University.
She graduated from Kings County Hospital Center School of Nursing and Boston College and earned a master's degree and a doctorate at Columbia University.
At her retirement she was the associate chief for research in the nursing service at the hospital and an assistant professor at the University of California at San Francisco.
After graduating from the University of North Carolina, she taught school and worked at the Federal Research Information Bureau in Washington during World War I.
Then she returned to the university's law school, becoming its third female graduate.
She graduated from Cottey College in Nevada, Mo., in 1952 and earned a nursing degree from the University of Southern California in 1955 and a master's degree from the University of Maryland in 1974.
She graduated from Cottey College in Nevada, Mo., in 1952 and earned a nursing degree from the University of Southern California in 1955 and a master's degree from the University of Maryland in 1974.
She was a doctoral candidate at Columbia University.
A native of Montreal, she received her Bachelor of Arts degree from McGill University in Canada, a master's in art therapy in 1981 from the College of New Rochelle and a master's in social work from Fordham University in 1988.
A native of Montreal, she received her Bachelor of Arts degree from McGill University in Canada, a master's in art therapy in 1981 from the College of New Rochelle and a master's in social work from Fordham University in 1988.
Later, she studied English literature at the University of Bristol, then began to write cultural criticism for New Society, The New Statesman and other publications.
From 1976 to 1978, Ms. Carter was a fellow in creative writing at Sheffield University in England, and in 1980 and 1981 she was a visiting professor in the writing program at Brown University in Providence, R.I. She also taught at the Iowa Writers' Workshop.
From 1976 to 1978, Ms. Carter was a fellow in creative writing at Sheffield University in England, and in 1980 and 1981 she was a visiting professor in the writing program at Brown University in Providence, R.I. She also taught at the Iowa Writers' Workshop.

        Marguerite Ross Barnett, who as president of the University of Houston was the first black woman to lead a major American university, died yesterday at Maui Memorial Hospital in Wailuku, Hawaii.

        Marguerite Ross Barnett, who as president of the University of Houston was the first black woman to lead a major American university, died yesterday at Maui Memorial Hospital in Wailuku, Hawaii.
Dr. Barnett was on medical leave from the University of Houston, where she had been president since 1990.
Before becoming president at Houston, Dr. Barnett had been an administrator at other major universities, including the City University of New York.
Seeking Stronger Links
        "What will characterize the superb 21st century university," she said at her inaugural in 1990, "will be its ability to manifest and focus areas of unquestioned institutional excellence on the challenging issues of the day.
As vice-chancellor for academic affairs at the City University of New York from 1983 to 1986, she was instrumental in establishing a program to help poor high school students make the transition to college and good jobs.
She instituted a similar program at the University of Missouri-St. Louis, where she was chancellor from 1986 to 1990, and did the same in Houston.
Houston is a public university with 33,000 students that performs $45 million a year in scientific research.
When she was named the first black and the first woman to be president of the University of Houston, there were few other women in charge of colleges that were neither historically black nor all female, a situation that still exists.
The only woman to lead a campus larger than the University of Houston is Donna Shalala, who is chancellor of the University of Wisconsin at Madison, which has 38,000 students.
The only woman to lead a campus larger than the University of Houston is Donna Shalala, who is chancellor of the University of Wisconsin at Madison, which has 38,000 students.
When interviewers persisted in asking her how it felt to be the first black woman to head the University of Houston, she would turn to her assistant, Wendy H. Adair, and ask "Well, how does it feel to be the first red-haired associate vice president of the university?
When interviewers persisted in asking her how it felt to be the first black woman to head the University of Houston, she would turn to her assistant, Wendy H. Adair, and ask "Well, how does it feel to be the first red-haired associate vice president of the university?
She also played a key role in raising more than $150 million for her institution, including a donation of more than $50 million from an alumnus, John Moores, one of the largest gifts ever made to a publicly financed university.
She graduated from Antioch College in 1964 and received her master of science and doctoral degrees in political science from the University of Chicago.
She taught at the University of Chicago and at Princeton, Howard and Columbia universities before turning to university administration.
She taught at the University of Chicago and at Princeton, Howard and Columbia universities before turning to university administration.
Last July she was the only university representative named to the President's Commission on Environmental Quality, a group that will recommend ways to slow the destruction of the environment without restricting business excessively.

        Shirley R. Levittan, an Acting State Supreme Court judge from 1974 until she retired last year, died yesterday at New York University Hospital.
Judge Levittan, who was born in Brooklyn on Sept. 8, 1918, graduated from Barnard College in 1939 and received a master's degree in French literature a year later at Syracuse University.
Mrs. Hopwood was an alumna of Finch College and earned a master's degree in business from New York University.
She was born in New York and received a bachelor's degree at Sarah Lawrence College; she also studied at Columbia University, the Art Students League, the Delehanty Institute and the Escola de Artes Visuals in Rio de Janeiro.
The beneficiaries of Mrs. Tang's philanthropy included the Department of East Asian Studies at Duke University, the Chinese language program at Skidmore College and Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass.
She worked with several hospitals in Paris in 1954 and 1955 and taught at the Pahlevi University in Shiraz, Iran, from 1967 to 1969.
By 1964 there were a dozen female assistant managers and she was chosen from them to study at the Stonier Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers University.
Mrs. Black graduated from the Women's College of the University of North Carolina at Greensboro in 1943, did graduate work at Catholic University in Washington and earned a master's degree in art history at George Washington University in 1952.
Mrs. Black graduated from the Women's College of the University of North Carolina at Greensboro in 1943, did graduate work at Catholic University in Washington and earned a master's degree in art history at George Washington University in 1952.
Mrs. Black graduated from the Women's College of the University of North Carolina at Greensboro in 1943, did graduate work at Catholic University in Washington and earned a master's degree in art history at George Washington University in 1952.
She was also a training and supervising analyst at the Institute for Psychotherapy, an attending psychologist at Roosevelt Hospital and a lecturer in psychiatry at Columbia University.
"
        Born and raised a New Yorker, Dr. Friedman graduated from New York University, from which she also received a Ph.D. She earned a master's degree in psychology from City College.
She earned her undergraduate and law degrees at New York University.

        Emilia Sherman Maurer, who put the Rockettes through their paces from the gala opening of Radio City Music Hall on Dec. 27, 1932, until she retired as director of the dancers more than 40 years later, died on Friday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhassett, L.I.
She died of cancer, according to the State University of New York at Buffalo, where she was on the faculty.
She received a bachelor's degree from the University of Washington in 1944, a master's degree from Bryn Mawr College in 1946 and a doctorate in classical archeology and Greek from Bryn Mawr in 1956.
From 1951 to 1962 she was a researcher at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., and then worked at the University at Buffalo.

        Shirley Ullman Wedeen, a Brooklyn College educator and past chairwoman of the City University's Faculty Senate, died on Thursday at home in Brooklyn.
She created the first remedial reading program in the City University system and ran it from 1961 to 1964.
She was elected chairwoman of the Faculty Senate for the entire City University from 1986 to 1990, and in that post sat as an ex-officio member on the university's Board of Trustees.
She was elected chairwoman of the Faculty Senate for the entire City University from 1986 to 1990, and in that post sat as an ex-officio member on the university's Board of Trustees.
At New York University she earned a master's degree in guidance counseling in 1947 and a doctorate in psychology in 1951.
She collected rare books and manuscripts and donated a significant collection to Boston University.
She collected rare books and manuscripts and donated a significant collection to Boston University.
Miss Woodruff, a native of Ogden, Utah, graduated from Oberlin College and Teachers College at Columbia University.
Her first book, on the Kiowas, was "The Ten Grandmothers" (University of Oklahoma, 1945).
" Another major work was "Maria: The Potter of San Ildefonso" (University of Oklahoma, 1948).
"
        Born in Wilmette, Ill., she graduated from the University of Oklahoma in 1930 and in 1935 became the first woman to earn a doctorate in anthropology there.
Mrs. Carson, who was born in Pike County, Ill., and graduated from the University of Illinois, came to New York in the early 1920's.
She earned both her undergraduate and master's degrees there, and went on to postgraduate study at Uppsala university in Stockholm and the Sorbonne in Paris.
Her interest in Scandinavian art also led her to serve as visiting professor in the field at the University of Wisconsin in 1950-51, and to teach American art at Uppsala University in 1960.
Her interest in Scandinavian art also led her to serve as visiting professor in the field at the University of Wisconsin in 1950-51, and to teach American art at Uppsala University in 1960.
Mrs. Grossman was born in Brooklyn and attended New York University.

        Catherine Wolkonsky, a French and Russian teacher for 50 years and founding chairman of the Slavic Department at the State University of New York at Albany, died on Thursday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 96 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y.
        She died after a brief illness, her family said.
She taught French in Cooperstown, N.Y., until World War II, when Cornell University started training Army officers in Russian.
Mrs. Wolkonsky continued to teach at the Russian Summer School at Norwich University in Northfield, Vt., until 1985, when she was 90 years old.

        Betty Lou Haydnet Ourisman, a former board member of the Arena Stage and Ford's Theater in Washington, who was long active in philanthrophic and cultural organizations in the capital area, died yesterday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington.

        Kathryn Beliveau Feuer, a scholar of Russian literature who ruffled the Soviet authorities by befriending dissident intellectuals during the cold war, died Sunday at The Cedars rehabilitation center in Charlottesville, Va. She was 65 years old and lived in Charlottesville, where she was a professor at the University of Virginia.
Dr. Feuer published a novel at the age of 21 and, during a long career as an educator, headed the Slavic languages departments at the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Toronto.
Dr. Feuer published a novel at the age of 21 and, during a long career as an educator, headed the Slavic languages departments at the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Toronto.
She earned a master's degree at Columbia University in 1954 and a doctorate there in 1965 with a thesis based on research of Tolstoy's "War and Peace" manuscripts at his estate in Russia, where she stayed in 1963.
Surviving are her husband, Lewis Feuer, a noted sociologist, philosopher, and social critic; a daughter, Robin F. Miller of Newton, Mass., a professor of Russian literature at Brandeis University, and three granddaughters.
      
Her husband was John Scott Mabon, a publishing executive who was the acting director of University of Michigan Press.
There she did murals for the University of Agriculture and had several solo exhibitions.

        Betty Lou Haydnet Ourisman, a former board member of the Arena Stage and Ford's Theater in Washington, who was long active in philanthrophic and cultural organizations in the capital area, died yesterday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington.
"
        Miss Hammond was born in Los Angeles, and was a graduate of the University of California in Berkeley.
She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1937.
Her first published book of poems, "Family Circle" (Yale University, 1946) won Yale's Younger Poets Prize, and in 1949 she won a Collier's prize for fiction.
Taught Short-Story Writing
        She taught short-story and critical writing at City College for four years in the 1960's and dramatic writing at New York University for several years in the 1980's.
Dr. Croix was born in Nanking, China, where her Presbyterian-missionary parents taught at the university.
She graduated from Vassar College in 1940 with a chemistry major and earned her Ph.D. in chemistry at Columbia University in 1949.
She initiated the New York State Psychiatric Institute's mental health program for the deaf and founded New York University's research and training center for deafness rehabilitation, a forerunner of centers elsewhere.
Among her books were "Youth in a Soundless World" (New York University, 1956), "Psychology of Deafness" (Columbia University, 1960) and "Lisa and Her Soundless World" (Human Sciences, 1974), which was chosen as the children's book of the year by the Child Study Association of America.
Among her books were "Youth in a Soundless World" (New York University, 1956), "Psychology of Deafness" (Columbia University, 1960) and "Lisa and Her Soundless World" (Human Sciences, 1974), which was chosen as the children's book of the year by the Child Study Association of America.
Her other honors included an honorary doctorate from Gallaudet University, which educates deaf students.
She earned bachelor's and master's degrees and a doctorate in psychology at New York University, where she later taught educational psychology for 15 years.
In 1964 she settled on Long Island to teach interior design at Adelphi University and the Parsons School of Design, and three years later she was appointed professor at the New York Institute of Technology.
In 1981 she moved to Richmond, where she taught at Virginia Commonwealth University until retiring as professor emerita in 1988.
She was one of the first women to have their work represented in the archives of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in Blacksburg, Va.
        She is survived by a brother, Binnert, of the Hague.
      
Later, she taught social work at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and maintained an active practice in cognitive therapy.
A native of Wilmette, Ill., she graduated from the University of Minnesota, which cited her for its Outstanding Achievement Award 50 years after she received a master's degree there.
In testimony before the Senate on the country's neutral status in 1939, she also spoke for the American Association of University Women, the General Federation of Women's Clubs, the National Board of the Young Women's Christian Association, the National Council of Jewish Women and the National Women's Trade Union League.

        Dr. Rosa Lee Nemir Audi, a pulmonary and pediatrics specialist who worked 60 years as a doctor, teacher and researcher, died on Monday at Tisch Hospital at New York University in Manhattan.
Her entire career was at New York University's medical school and Bellevue Hospital Center, where she remained active until her recent illness.
Born in Waco, Tex., she graduated from the University of Texas in 1926 and Johns Hopkins University Medical School in 1930.
Born in Waco, Tex., she graduated from the University of Texas in 1926 and Johns Hopkins University Medical School in 1930.
A native of Washington, she earned a bachelor's degree from Swarthmore College in 1963 and master's and doctoral degrees in English from Harvard University in 1965 and 1975.
The cause of death was cancer, according to a statement from Yeshiva University.
She and her husband of 62 years, former United States Representative Herbert Tenzer, took leading roles at the university for many years.
Their $1 million dollar gift in 1989 endowed a Herbert and Florence Tenzer University Fellows Program to benefit outstanding students at Yeshiva's graduate schools.

        Melissa Stutsman Topping, an executive of the Henry Luce Foundation, died on Friday at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
After graduating from Brown University, she earned a master's degree in business administration at Columbia.
A native of New York City, Dr. Estrin attended Smith College and began medical studies at the University of Austria, in Vienna.
She privately studied piano, art and dance and graduated from New York University.
Ms. Dryer was born in Toronto, a daughter of Pegeen Synge, an architect, and Douglas Dryer, a professor of philosophy at the University of Toronto.
She attended Sir George Williams University in Montreal and then transferred to the School of Visual Arts in New York City.
Dr. Symonds earned a bachelor's degree at New York University in 1940 and a master's degree in pscyhology from the University of Wisconsin in 1944.
Dr. Symonds earned a bachelor's degree at New York University in 1940 and a master's degree in pscyhology from the University of Wisconsin in 1944.
She was also an associate clinical professor of psychiatry at the New York University School of Medicine, an associate psychoanalyst at the Karen Horney Clinic and a lecturer in family counseling at Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was also the author of many articles on loneliness in adolescents, the problems of obesity and women's issues.
She received a bachelor's degree in English from New York University and did additional graduate work at Cornell University.
She received a bachelor's degree in English from New York University and did additional graduate work at Cornell University.
"
        She taught in 1938 at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth and from 1938 to 1944 at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, where she headed her own company.
"
        She taught in 1938 at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth and from 1938 to 1944 at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, where she headed her own company.
" She forgot what she had learned at the university and tried, instead, to recreate the food to which she had been exposed.
She graduated from the University of California at Berkeley.
She was born in Sunnyside, Wash., graduated from the University of Washington and studied at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy of Tufts University.
She was born in Sunnyside, Wash., graduated from the University of Washington and studied at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy of Tufts University.
She died of cancer, said her brother, Alwin, of Lake Nebagamon, Wis.
        Dr. Wiesner, who was born in Rice Lake, Wis., was a physical-education major at the University of Wisconsin in Madison when she discovered the university's dance program.
She died of cancer, said her brother, Alwin, of Lake Nebagamon, Wis.
        Dr. Wiesner, who was born in Rice Lake, Wis., was a physical-education major at the University of Wisconsin in Madison when she discovered the university's dance program.
After receiving a bachelor's degree in 1930, she did graduate work in dance and physical education at New York University.
Dr. Wiesner taught dance before World War II at the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Chicago.
Dr. Wiesner taught dance before World War II at the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Chicago.
Turning to psychology, she earned a master's degree at New York University and a doctorate from the University of California.
Turning to psychology, she earned a master's degree at New York University and a doctorate from the University of California.
She was born in Sunnyside, Wash., graduated from the University of Washington and studied at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy of Tufts University.
She was born in Sunnyside, Wash., graduated from the University of Washington and studied at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy of Tufts University.
Dr. Pulaski graduated from Wellesley College in 1938 and earned a Ph.D. in child psychology at City University of New York three decades later.
She lectured widely and taught at Hofstra University, Adelphi University and Queens College of the City University of New York.
She lectured widely and taught at Hofstra University, Adelphi University and Queens College of the City University of New York.
She lectured widely and taught at Hofstra University, Adelphi University and Queens College of the City University of New York.
Ms. Bennett was born in Tampa, Fla. After graduating from the University of Florida, she earned a master's degree in psychology at West Georgia College in Carrolton, Ga. and taught psychology at Santa Fe Community College in Gainesville, Fla.
She was also the first woman to become the local and national president of Big Brothers-Big Sisters of America and the first to serve as a trustee of New York University Medical Center.
When she considered becoming a social worker, she said Dr. Alex Rosen, dean of New York University's School of Social Work, had told her, "You will do a lot more good going on boards, raising money and getting involved in direct service to meet community needs.

        Dr. June Louin-Tapp, a professor at the University of Minnesota's Institute of Child Development, died last Thursday in Osnabruck, Germany, while there for a two-month stay as a visiting professor at the University of Osnabruck.

        Dr. June Louin-Tapp, a professor at the University of Minnesota's Institute of Child Development, died last Thursday in Osnabruck, Germany, while there for a two-month stay as a visiting professor at the University of Osnabruck.
She taught and did research at the University of Chicago from 1964 to 1972, when she joined the Minnesota faculty.
Ms. Bennett was born in Tampa, Fla. After graduating from the University of Florida, she earned a master's degree in psychology at West Georgia College in Carrolton, Ga. and taught psychology at Santa Fe Community College in Gainesville, Fla.
A native of Argentina, Dr. Roque Cohen came to the United States after her graduation from the National University of Cordoba Medical School.
She was a trustee of Clark Atlanta University and Meharry Medical College and served on the boards of the Fulton-DeKalb Hospital Authority and the National Young Women's Christian Association.
Her father, George Towns, was a professor at Clark Atlanta University.
She graduated there in 1927 and received a master's degree in psychology from Ohio State University in 1929.
Born in Weehawken, N.J., Professor Jablow earned a bachelor's degree from New York University in 1940 and a doctorate from Columbia University in 1963.
Born in Weehawken, N.J., Professor Jablow earned a bachelor's degree from New York University in 1940 and a doctorate from Columbia University in 1963.
" After brief sojourns at Illinois College, Whittier College, Occidental College and the University of California at Los Angeles, she married a doctoral student, Alfred Fisher, in 1929 and moved to Dijon, France, where he would complete his doctorate in literature.
She worked for several years in the business office at Teachers College at Columbia University but, after taking her vows in the Order of St. Ursuline in 1939, she returned to New Rochelle to teach at the Ursuline School.
She earned a master's and, in 1957, a Ph.D. in American church history at Catholic University in Washington.
She added a master's degree in theology from the University of Notre Dame in 1962 and worked for four years as staff editor of The New Catholic Encyclopedia while also lecturing at Catholic University.
She added a master's degree in theology from the University of Notre Dame in 1962 and worked for four years as staff editor of The New Catholic Encyclopedia while also lecturing at Catholic University.
She then taught at the University of Maryland, becoming assistant director of the general ecducation program and then assistant dean of graduate studies.
Ms. Linfield, a 1978 graduate of the New York University School of Law, where she was awarded the American College of Trial Lawyers Medal for Excellence in Advocacy, had been a litigation associate at Willkie Farr & Gallagher for two years and then at Baer Marks & Upham for seven years before joining the Times Company in 1987.
She received a Bachelor of Science with honor in psychology from Tufts University.
" After brief sojourns at Illinois College, Whittier College, Occidental College and the University of California at Los Angeles, she married a doctoral student, Alfred Fisher, in 1929 and moved to Dijon, France, where he would complete his doctorate in literature.
They included 27 books for children, a volume of memoirs "Desert Exile: the Uprooting of a Japanese-American Family," which the University of Washington Press published in 1982, and "The Invisible Thread," an autobiography written for teen-agers and published by Julian Messner in 1991.
degree from the University of California at Berkeley and a master's degree in education from Smith College.
Mrs. Simonson, a native of Brooklyn and a graduate of the Columbia University teacher training program, taught sixth grade at Public School 61 in the Bronx for most of her 35-year teaching career.
She interrupted her graduate studies at Columbia University in the mid-1940's to marry Mr. Cohen, who died in 1974.
She was 49 years old and lived in Rye Brook, N.Y.
        She was in Little Rock for treatment for cancer at the University of Arkansas Medical Sciences Center, her husband said.
After attending Northwestern University, she began modeling in Chicago and then taught modeling there.
Mrs. Abel was born in Chicago and graduated from the University of Chicago.

        Dr. Joanna Hollenberg Sher, a professor of clinical pathology at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn, died on July 4 at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn.
Dr. Sher, who earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago in 1952 and a medical degree from its school of medicine in 1956, was an authority on neuropathology.

        Debora Dammann Kramer, an administrator of mental health and social-welfare programs, died on Saturday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.

        Mollie Parnis, the fashion designer, whose Park Avenue living room was as well known to actors, journalists and Democrats as her Seventh Avenue showroom was to the women who bought her dresses, died yesterday at New York University Hospital.
Charles Eisendrath, a professor at the University of Michigan, who oversaw the journalism prize, said the award grew out of her admiration for members of the press.
Miss Thomas was born in Montgomery, Ala. She graduated from the University of Alabama in 1939.
She resumed her studies at Columbia University, where she earned a master's degree in social work in 1952.
A Buyer for Store Chains
        She studied at Syracuse University and then built a successful career buying merchandise for department-store chains.
Foundation beneficiaries included St. Vincent's Hospital School of Nursing, AIDS-related programs, Phoenix House and St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center to public-school children, Lincoln Center and New York University, where the foundation endowed a chair in the humanities.
She studied at the New School for Social Research; the Biblical Seminary of New York, the predecessor to the New York Theological Seminary, and the Columbia University School of Library Service.
A native of Chicago and a 1944 graduate of Cornell University, Ms. Baer scored her first success as an author in 1965 when Macmillan began "Follow Me!," a travel guide for single women looking for a husband abroad.

        Willa L. Z. Armstrong, the president of Armstrong Information Services, a Manhattan video-production company, died on Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center.
Mrs. Jacoby, a specialist in mental-health education, had been a member of the faculty of Yale University for the last 25 years and remained a lecturer on public health at the time of her death.
She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Minnesota and received a master's degree in public health from Yale in 1967, the year she joined the faculty.
She graduated from Hunter College and earned a doctorate in English at New York University.
She and Dr. Freidman-Kien arranged the first full-scale medical conference on AIDS, at New York University in 1983.
Born in Boston, she grew up in Barrington, R.I. She graduated from Barnard College and New York University Medical School.
Her specialties were hematology and oncology, and she was a clinical professor at the New York University Medical Center.
He was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's first budget director, Ambassador to England under President Harry S. Truman and president of McGill University and the Mutual Life Insurance Company.
in that discipline at Columbia University two years later.
Professor Jones, a native of Flushing, Queens, graduated from Hood College and held a master's degree from Columbia University and a Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.
Professor Jones, a native of Flushing, Queens, graduated from Hood College and held a master's degree from Columbia University and a Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.
She was the author of "King of Critics," a biography of George Saintsbury (1845-1933), an English literary critic and historian, published by the University of Michigan Press this month.
She spent 33 years on the faculty, including five as head of the English Department and one as a visiting professor of English at the University of Leicester, England.
She graduated from Hunter College and earned a doctorate in English at New York University.
Her book "In the Company of Educated Women: A History of Women and Higher Education in America" (Yale University Press, 1985) won the Frederick W. Ness book award.
She first gained attention by turning her doctoral thesis on immigration into a book, "Ancestors & Immigrants: A Changing New England Tradition" (Harvard University Press, 1956).
Miss Sale attended the University of Illinois for two years and graduated from the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York.
Mrs. Somerville, a native of Manhattan, was a graduate of Syracuse University.
LaDonne Heaton Schulman was born in Jacksonville, Fla., and graduated summa cum laude from Wheaton College before spending a year as a Fulbright scholar at Johannes Gutenberg University in Mainz, Germany.
and Ph.D. degrees in chemistry at Columbia University and did postdoctoral studies at New York University Medical Center in 1966.
and Ph.D. degrees in chemistry at Columbia University and did postdoctoral studies at New York University Medical Center in 1966.
Mrs. Fordyce, who was born in Watertown, Wis., the daughter of a bank president, graduated from Smith College in 1928 and studied at the Sorbonne and the University of Grenoble in France.
Mrs. Fordyce served on many governmental committees and with health-related organizations, including the United States branch of the World Association for Psychosocial Rehabilitation, the International Council for Coordinating Cancer Research, the United States Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, the Rockefeller University Council, the Geriatric Advisory Council of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the Psychiatry Department at Columbia University.
Mrs. Fordyce served on many governmental committees and with health-related organizations, including the United States branch of the World Association for Psychosocial Rehabilitation, the International Council for Coordinating Cancer Research, the United States Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, the Rockefeller University Council, the Geriatric Advisory Council of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the Psychiatry Department at Columbia University.
She worked variously as a technician, researcher and professor at Yale from 1928 to 1961, then worked nine years at Brown University.

        Harriet W. Sheridan, former undergraduate dean at Brown University, died on Tuesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston.
She later founded the Center for the Advancement of College Teaching at the university and was noted for her course on literature and medicine, which proved popular with many medical students.
A native of Manhattan, she received her bachelor's degree from Hunter College in 1944, a master's from Smith College in 1945 and a doctorate in medieval English literature from Yale University in 1950.
Reared in the Brooklyn Heights section of Brooklyn, Miss Wilson graduated from Barnard College and earned a master's degree from the Fordham University School of Social Work.
The entire work won the Pulitzer Prize for biography in 1958 and Columbia University's Loubat Prize the same year.
Although she never received a high school diploma or college degree, she studied philosophy under Bertrand Russell at the New School for Social Research and studied at Columbia University.

        Judith N. Shklar, a professor of government at Harvard University, died Wednesday at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
She died of a heart attack, said Ariadne Valsamis, a Harvard University spokeswoman.
In 1985 she was awarded the teaching prize of the Harvard University chapter of Phi Beta Kappa.
She earned bachelor's and master's degrees from McGill University and a doctorate in 1955 from Radcliffe College.
"She was a giant figure in the history of genetics," said Dr. James Shapiro of the University of Chicago.
In an introduction to a volume of papers about Dr. McClintock, produced in celebration of her 90th birthday, Dr. Nina Fedoroff of the Carnegie Institution of Washington and Dr. David Botstein of Stanford University described Dr. McClintock's plight.
When she was 17, she enrolled at Cornell University's College of Agriculture, a university that had been extremely hospitable to women.
When she was 17, she enrolled at Cornell University's College of Agriculture, a university that had been extremely hospitable to women.
When she was a junior she was invited to take the university's graduate course in genetics and became, unofficially, a graduate student.
From the time she received her Ph.D. in 1927 until 1941, she worked at Cornell University and at the University of Missouri, collaborating with some of the country's most eminent geneticists.
From the time she received her Ph.D. in 1927 until 1941, she worked at Cornell University and at the University of Missouri, collaborating with some of the country's most eminent geneticists.
She attended several colleges, including George Washington University and Barnard College, but never graduated.
Ms. Buckley, a native of Rockville Center, L.I., graduated in nursing and psychology from Adelphi University.
degree in counseling and psychology from Miami University and did postgraduate work in vocational rehabilitation and psychology at Columbia University.
degree in counseling and psychology from Miami University and did postgraduate work in vocational rehabilitation and psychology at Columbia University.
Mrs. Merrifield, a native of Colton, Calif., received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of California at Berkeley, where she was awarded the Chamberlain Cook Prize in poetry, and did graduate studies at Columbia University.
Mrs. Merrifield, a native of Colton, Calif., received a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of California at Berkeley, where she was awarded the Chamberlain Cook Prize in poetry, and did graduate studies at Columbia University.

        Natalie deWolf Paine, a television production administrator at CBS News and at the Columbia University Seminars on Media and Society, died on Wednesday.
Friendly, who was directing Columbia University's seminars on the media and society and helped to produce more than 600 of them.
A native of Newark, she attended public schools and the School of Dramatic Art, New York University.
During the campus uprisings at Columbia University in 1968, she cooked forstudent protesters occupying buildings.
She attended Bard College and Columbia University.
During the campus uprisings at Columbia University in 1968, she cooked for student protesters occupying buildings.
She attended Bard College and Columbia University.
Mrs. Sable, whose maiden name was Berger, was born in Manhattan and graduated from New York University.
In 1989 Rosebud received an honorary doctor of humane letters degree from the University of South Dakota.
She had attended the university from 1925 to 1927.
She moved with her parents to the United States in 1939 and attended Queens College and the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, where she met her husband, Robert Lee Manning, an art collector who became director of the art gallery at Finch College in Manhattan.

        Elinor Kridel Bernheim, a social-welfare volunteer whose widely cast interests ranged from the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and Columbia University's School of Social Work to a community center she founded in the Bronx, died yesterday at her Upper East Side home.
Her service in Africa included work on the Committee for Health in Southern Africa, a physicians' evaluation team in Liberia, the medical college planning committee for Africa University in Zimbabwe and the United Methodist Church medical aid program for Mozambique.
She died of a heart attack, said Jay Chrepta, a spokesman for Tufts University.
That year, the institution was incorporated into Tufts, was moved to Medford, Mass., and was renamed the Eliot-Pearson Department of Child Study at Tufts University.
She received her doctorate in education from Harvard University in 1930.

        Dr. Gloria Glikin Fromm, a professor of English at the University of Illinois in Chicago, died Nov. 12 at Governors Park, a nursing home and rehabilitation center in Barrington, Ill. She was 61 years old and lived in North Barrington.
She was the author of many essays and "Dorothy Richardson: A Biography" (University of Illinois Press, 1977), the life of the pioneering English writer of stream-of-consciousness fiction.
Born in Newark, she received her undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees from New York University.
She began her academic career at Brooklyn College in 1961 and, in 1970, moved to the Chicago campus of the University of Illinois, where she became a full professor in 1978.
In 1955, she married Dr. John Douglas French, a neurosurgeon who was director of the Brain Research Institute at the University of California at Los Angeles.
Dr. Spencer was the first woman to receive the Sachs Fellowship for Research in the Fine Arts from Harvard University, which enabled her to earn a doctorate at Radcliffe College.
Active Politically and Academically
        Ms. Lorde, who also used her adopted African name, Gamba Adisa, was born in Manhattan and graduated from Hunter College and the Columbia University School of Library Science.
She was born in Great Neck, L.I., and was a graduate of Drew University.
Her death was reported yesterday by Columbia University, where she had taught for 35 years.

        Vanessa S. Lynn, a New York gallery director who wrote about contemporary American crafts, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center.
degree from the State University of New York at Binghamton and an M.A.
She earned her bachelor's degree and master's degree in library science at the University of Chicago and a master's degree at Columbia University Teachers College.
She earned her bachelor's degree and master's degree in library science at the University of Chicago and a master's degree at Columbia University Teachers College.
In 1956 she graduated from the University of Texas at Austin.
She earned her bachelor's degree and master's degree in library science at the University of Chicago and a master's degree at Columbia University Teachers College.
She earned her bachelor's degree and master's degree in library science at the University of Chicago and a master's degree at Columbia University Teachers College.
In 1956 she graduated from the University of Texas at Austin.
She was a graduate of Clarke College in Dubuque, Iowa, and attended Loyola University Medical School and Loyola University Law School in Chicago.
She was a graduate of Clarke College in Dubuque, Iowa, and attended Loyola University Medical School and Loyola University Law School in Chicago.
Mrs. Roach attended Northwestern University and graduated from the University of Colorado in 1950.
Mrs. Roach attended Northwestern University and graduated from the University of Colorado in 1950.
Ms. Yard, who attended Yuba College in Marysville, Calif., and Chico State University in Chico, Calif., had worked for the company since 1968.
Miss Regan graduated from Cornell University in 1919.
She also belonged to the Advisory Council in the College of Arts and Sciences at Cornell and the University Council.
She was honored by the university in 1981 as a "foremost benefactor.
"
        Miss Regan sponsored a film, "Cornell Plantations" in 1974-75 and was special consultant for a film, "Mr. President," in 1977-78, on the university's president, Frank H. T. Rhodes.
from Rutgers University.
Dr. Kris died of cancer, said Harvard University, where she worked.
from Harvard Medical School in 1959, was assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at the medical school and psychiatrist to the University Health Services.
Mrs. Hoxie, a native of Cincinnati, graduated from the University of Cincinnati.
She did graduate work in French at Penn State University, the Universite de Paris and Columbia University.
She did graduate work in French at Penn State University, the Universite de Paris and Columbia University.
Dr. Hoxie became the first dean of the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University in 1955 and tended to its academic growth while his wife taught French and acted as the college's official hostess.
Her husband became chancellor of Long Island University in 1964.
A frequent visitor to South Korea, she was a member of the board of the American Friends of Chung-Ang University.
She was teaching as a professor at Fordham University's School of Social Work at the time of her death.
Ms. McMurray was a graduate of Temple University and held a master's degree in social services from Bryn Mawr College.
In her prior teaching post at the University of Washington School of Public Health from 1972 to 1986, she was on the team that developed the Sickness Impact Profile.
After earning a doctorate in socio-medical science at Columbia University in 1970, she served two years as an assistant to the first vice president at New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation.
Miss Grand, a native of Brooklyn, received a bachelor's degree at Hunter College in 1929 and a master's degree at Teachers College, Columbia University, in 1931.
"
        Besides teaching principles of characterization and script analysis at her school, Miss Adler had been an adjunct professor of acting at the Yale School of Drama and for many years headed the undergraduate drama department at New York University.
Her work schedule allowed little time for schooling, but when possible she studied at public schools and New York University.
She graduated from Hunter College and received a master's degree in Library Science from Columbia University.

        Carol Bondhus Fitzgerald, head of readers' services at the Mina Rees Library of the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York, died on Tuesday in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 51 and lived in Bedford Hills, N.Y.

        Carol Bondhus Fitzgerald, head of readers' services at the Mina Rees Library of the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York, died on Tuesday in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 51 and lived in Bedford Hills, N.Y.
Professor Fitzgerald died of cancer at Northern Westchester Hospital Center, said Christy DeBoe Hicks, a City University spokeswoman.
She graduated from Rosary College in River Forest, Ill., and earned master's degrees at New York University and Columbia University.
She graduated from Rosary College in River Forest, Ill., and earned master's degrees at New York University and Columbia University.
She graduated with an honors degree from the University of London in 1927 and went on to teach for three years in India.
Dr. Toolan, a native of Chicago, graduated with honors from the University of Chicago at the age of 17 and received a Ph.D. in pathology from Cornell Medical Center.
With her first husband, Richard Brault, a French engineer whom she had met in Cincinnati and married in 1923, Miss Boyle briefly lived in New York City, where she attended Columbia University.
She went on to become a professor of English and creative writing at San Francisco State University from 1963 to 1979.
She was born in Peoria, Ill., and earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Missouri in 1968 and a doctorate from the Columbia School of Social Work in 1983.
Before joining the Hunter faculty, she taught at New York University and Columbia, where she was research director of the school's Industrial Social Welfare Center.
She studied at Bryn Mawr College and received a bachelor's degree from the University of California at Berkeley.
She is survived by her husband, to whom she was wed in 1959; her mother, May Davies Hopkins Martenet, of Virginia Beach, and her two sons, William Van Orden Gnichtel Jr., of Montebello, N.Y., and Edwin Gnichtel, a student at Drew University in Madison.
      

        Rosalind A. Lorwin, a professor emeritus of social psychology at San Diego State University and a former mayor of Del Mar, Calif., died Thursday at her home in Del Mar.
She earned a master's degree in psychology from the University of California at Berkeley and a doctorate in the field from Yale University in 1955.
She earned a master's degree in psychology from the University of California at Berkeley and a doctorate in the field from Yale University in 1955.
Mrs. Saunders died of cancer, said her son, Anthony D. Saunders, of Stamford, N.Y.
        Mrs. Saunders received a bachelor's degree from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1949, a master's degree from Columbia University School of Social Work in 1976, and a certificate in psycholanalytic training from the Institute for Contemporary Psychotherapy in 1979.
Mrs. Saunders died of cancer, said her son, Anthony D. Saunders, of Stamford, N.Y.
        Mrs. Saunders received a bachelor's degree from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1949, a master's degree from Columbia University School of Social Work in 1976, and a certificate in psycholanalytic training from the Institute for Contemporary Psychotherapy in 1979.
Mrs. Besser, who grew up in Newark, went directly from high school to the New Jersey Law School, now a part of Rutgers University.
In addition to her husband, her sister, who is now Margaret Maxwell of Vancouver, and her sons Kelly and Casey, Mrs. St. Aubin is survived by a brother, Lou; two other sisters, Pearl McInnis and Kay Morrison; three other sons, Ricky, the former head football coach at the University of California at Santa Barbara; Rocky, a telephone company employee, and Kelly's twin brother, Kerry, a Richard Hofstadter fellow in history at Columbia University, plus three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, her sister, who is now Margaret Maxwell of Vancouver, and her sons Kelly and Casey, Mrs. St. Aubin is survived by a brother, Lou; two other sisters, Pearl McInnis and Kay Morrison; three other sons, Ricky, the former head football coach at the University of California at Santa Barbara; Rocky, a telephone company employee, and Kelly's twin brother, Kerry, a Richard Hofstadter fellow in history at Columbia University, plus three grandchildren.
      
Later she earned bachelor's and master's degrees at Columbia University's Teachers College.
