She received a master's degree in creative writing at New York University and began a career writing essays and criticism for art journals, as well as catalog commentaries for art exhibitions.
The cause was cancer, said Craig Werner, chairman of the Afro-American studies department at the University of Wisconsin, where Ms. McKay was Evjue professor of American and African-American literature.
As she and her contemporaries discovered during their student years, it was nearly impossible to study literature by black writers, male or female, in a university classroom in the late 1960's.
Among Professor McKay's other books are ''Jean Toomer, Artist: A Study of His Literary Life and Work, 1894-1936'' (University of North Carolina, 1984); ''Critical Essays on Toni Morrison'' (G. K. Hall, 1988), a collection she edited; and the Norton Critical Edition, published in 2001, of Harriet Jacobs's ''Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl,'' which she edited with Frances Smith Foster.
Mr. Carroll, who now heads the Quinnipiac University Poll, said that Ms. Fallon liked Mr. Steinbrenner, and was invited more than once to watch the Yankees from his box seat, but that her columns ''needled him about his grandiosity.
A native of Puerto Rico, Ms. Martinez moved in 1973 to attend the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque.
After graduation, she received a scholarship to New York University, where she earned a master's in literature.
Her first play, ''Any Woman Can't,'' found its way to Playwrights Horizons, then a small Off Broadway company, and was produced in 1973, shortly before she began to study playwriting in earnest at the Yale University School of Drama.
Ms. Wasserstein's other writing included a spoof of self-help literature, ''Sloth'' (Oxford University Press, 2005), and two books of essays, ''Bachelor Girls'' (Knopf, 1990) and ''Shiksa Goddess'' (Knopf, 2001), eclectic collections that embraced such disparate topics as Chekhov, her sister's battle with breast cancer, and the life and career of Mrs. Entenmann, creator of a bakery empire and fosterer of much guilt.
from the University of Michigan, and began her opera career singing arias in a restaurant.
The cause was lung cancer, according to the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago, where she was the John A. Wilson Distinguished Service Professor emeritus.
She studied Elamite, Sumerian and Akkadian in Paris for a diploma from the École Pratique des Hautes Etudes and earned a Ph.D. at the University of Chicago in 1955, the year before she joined the faculty.
She graduated from Empire State College of the State University of New York and worked as a commercial artist for McGraw-Hill and other companies.
The cause was complications of ataxia, a degenerative neurological condition, according to the University of Southern California, where she was an emeritus professor of theater.
in 2003, previously taught in the American studies department at the State University of New York, Buffalo.
Encouraged by colleagues in the movement, Ida Mae obtained a high school equivalency diploma and enrolled at the University of Minnesota.
She is survived by a sister, Jean Beasley; a brother, Charlie Nellums; a son, Cedric; and a granddaughter, according to the University of Southern California.
      
She is also survived by Dr. Afeworki Paulos, a lecturer at the University of Michigan, whom she adopted as a young adult in 1986 shortly after he had arrived from Eritrea to study in the United States.
Ms. Chaifetz was also an adjunct professor at Fordham University School of Law.
She received her undergraduate degree with honors in political science from Swarthmore in 1986 and a law degree from New York University School of Law in 1989.
'' She also choreographed for the Dayton Ballet and university dance programs.
She was also chairwoman of the Joffrey/New School University degree program in dance.
Betty received her bachelor's degree in 1942 -- by that timeshe had dropped the final ''e,'' which she considered an affectation of her mother's -- and accepted a fellowship to the University of California, Berkeley, for graduate work in psychology.
The recipient of many awards and honorary degrees, she was a visiting professor at universities around the country, among them Columbia, Temple and the University of Southern California.
In recent years, Ms. Friedan was associated with the Institute for Women and Work at Cornell University.
Betty received her bachelor's degree in 1942 -- by that time she had dropped the final ''e,'' which she considered an affectation of her mother's -- and accepted a fellowship to the University of California, Berkeley, for graduate work in psychology.
The recipient of many awards and honorary degrees, she was a visiting professor at universities around the country, among them Columbia, Temple and the University of Southern California.
In recent years, Ms. Friedan was associated with the Institute for Women and Work at Cornell University.
She graduated with a degree in advertising from the University of Missouri School of Journalism and worked for a while as an advertising manager for a department store.
She was an adjunct professor at the University of Southern California and an instructor at the Aspen Music School until 1994.
''
        Ms. Butler earned an associate's degree from Pasadena City College in 1968, and later studied at California State University, Los Angeles.
Her best-known poetry collections include ''The Blue Stairs'' (Corinth Books, 1968); ''The Countess From Minneapolis'' (Burning Deck Poetry Series, 1976); ''Fair Realism'' (Sun & Moon, 1989); and, most recently, ''The Red Gaze'' (Wesleyan University Press, 2005).
After attending the University of California, Los Angeles, she earned a bachelor's degree in English from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1943.
After attending the University of California, Los Angeles, she earned a bachelor's degree in English from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1943.
The year her company began, 1958, the long-neglected 50-year-old Boston Opera House was torn down, and the new company was forced into a nomadic existence, performing at the Donnelly Theater (razed in 1968), then the downtown Shubert Theater and then a series of unlikely places, like a university gym and a South End cyclorama.
When her mother married Henry Alexander, a political scientist at the University of Arkansas, the family moved to Fayetteville.
Discouraged by her stepfather from pursuing a career in music, Ms. Caldwell entered the University of Arkansas as a psychology major.
By 1952, Ms. Caldwell was running one herself, at Boston University, which she kept going for eight years.
In 1999, Ms. Caldwell accepted a post as distinguished professor of music at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, but left within several years because of poor health.
Her food and wine books, which won many awards, include ''A Cook's Tour of Rome,'' ''A Cook's Tour of San Francisco'' and ''The University of California/Sotheby Book of California Wine.
She recently completed a culinary oral history and film for the Bancroft Library at the University of California.
She moved to the Bay Area in 1948, when her husband joined the faculty of the University of California, Berkeley.
She wrote monographs on the Neolithic pottery uncovered at Tarsus and the University of Pennsylvania's excavation of a Hittite cemetery at Gordion.
She received her doctorate from the University of Utrecht in 1943.
In 1999, the University of Tennessee Press published the book in a new edition, with a foreword by Julian Bond.
''The parents were so much like your average white Southerner of that generation,'' Ms. Fosl, a historian at the University of Louisville, said last week in a telephone interview.
In recent years, Ms. Braden had taught civil rights history at the University of Louisville and at Northern Kentucky University.
In recent years, Ms. Braden had taught civil rights history at the University of Louisville and at Northern Kentucky University.
In 1995, she earned a law degree from the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University.
Ms. Gaines earned a bachelor's degree in history and political science from Hunter College in 1944, a master's from New York University in 1947 and a doctorate in education from Harvard in 1969.
She published eight books of photography, including ''Shiva's Pigeons: An Experience of India'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1972) and ''Animals in Four Worlds: Sculptures from India'' (University of Chicago Press, 1989).
She taught law at Florida State University, clerked for a federal judge in California and was an associate at the firm of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton.
While working full time, she attended Columbia University's School of General Studies for two years and took courses in geology, zoology, law, political science and economics.
Mrs. Fiske endowed a research center at the University of Massachusetts at Boston to unearth relics of this history.
The collection will be donated to New York University.
She received her undergraduate degree in music from Washburn University in Topeka.
The author of ''Witness in Philadelphia,'' published in 1977 by the Louisiana State University Press, she repeatedly spoke out against the Ku Klux Klan and other forces oppressing the black population of east central Mississippi.
''Less than 24 hours after I testified before a grand jury investigating those murders (and the church burning that preceded them), the Klan initiated a campaign to 'ruin' me, a WASP lady with eight great-grandparents buried in Neshoba County,'' she wrote in her book, completed with the assistance of Lynn Eden, now the associate director for research at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University.
She graduated from the University of Mississippi in 1944, and then worked as a reservations agent for Delta Air Lines in Atlanta.
Later known as the Philadelphia Dance Academy, it became part of the University of the Arts.
She taught at colleges including the Curtis Institute of Music, Swarthmore College and Temple University.
She graduated from Syracuse University and Fordham Law School.
At the University of San Diego, the 5-foot-11 Dixon won four varsity letters in basketball and was the captain her senior year.
Elizabeth Ann Maguire was born in the Bronx on Dec. 12, 1958, and grew up in Harrison, N.Y. She earned a bachelor's degree in English from Harvard in 1980 and began her career with Cambridge University Press before moving to Oxford University Press.
Elizabeth Ann Maguire was born in the Bronx on Dec. 12, 1958, and grew up in Harrison, N.Y. She earned a bachelor's degree in English from Harvard in 1980 and began her career with Cambridge University Press before moving to Oxford University Press.
''
        She became a social worker, eventually becoming a revered figure in Soweto, known as Ma K, giving advice to women's groups, churches and schools and earning a salary from the social work department of the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg.
In the early 1950's, after her husband took a job with the National Security Agency, Mrs. Avram moved to the Washington area, where she studied mathematics at George Washington University.
''A big challenge would be just understanding what goes on in this world of cataloging because it's a really complicated world,'' Allyson Carlyle, an associate professor at the Information School at the University of Washington, said in an interview.

        Sister Rose Thering, a Roman Catholic nun and a former professor at Seton Hall University who battled anti-Semitism within her church and contributed to a historic Vatican declaration that Jews were not collectively responsible for the death of Jesus, died on Saturday at a convent in Racine, Wis. She was 85.
The cause was kidney failure, said Catherine Memory, a university spokeswoman.
The result was a study of anti-Semitism in Catholic texts and a dissertation for her 1961 doctorate at St. Louis University that propounded the evidence: textbooks and preachings that abounded in calumnies against Jews and Judaism.
She joined the Sisters of St. Dominic at 16, and earned a bachelor's degree from the Dominican College in Racine in 1953, a master's degree from the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul in 1957 and a doctorate at St. Louis University four years later.
from Carnegie Mellon University.
Gay's books include ''Safe Among the Germans: Liberated Jews After World War II'' (Yale University, 2002), which dealt with a little-studied subject: the more than 250,000 Jews who returned to Allied-occupied Germany in the immediate aftermath of World War II.
She also wrote ''The Jews of Germany: A Historical Portrait'' (Yale University, 1992), which chronicled Jewish life in Germany from the fall of Jerusalem in A.D. 70 to the rise of Hitler in 1933.
Jocelyn Ballantyne Brand was born in Norfolk, Neb., and attended the University of Nebraska before finishing her art education at the American Academy of Art in Chicago and the Art Student League in New York City.
Miss Dunham attended Joliet Junior College and the University of Chicago, where she received her bachelor's degree, going on to a doctorate in anthropology there.
''
        Miss Dunham began an association with Southern Illinois University in 1964 when she choreographed Gounod's ''Faust'' at the Carbondale campus.
The book, ''Kaiso!,'' edited by VèVè A. Clark and Sara E. Johnson, was recently released by University of Wisconsin Press.
She attended Oberlin College and earned her doctorate in biochemistry from the University of Wisconsin in 1968.

        Barbara Furrer Goodman, a teacher and former chairwoman of the board of trustees at Teachers College at Columbia University, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
She earned a bachelor's degree in history from the University of Nebraska in 1940, a master's from Nebraska the next year and a Ph.D. from Columbia in 1953.

        Barbara Furrer Goodman, a teacher and former chairwoman of the board of trustees at Teachers College at Columbia University, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
She taught at the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., before going to law school at the University of Virginia.
Born in Newport News, Va., Ms. Kopp received a master's degree in musicology from Temple University.
While Flora was still a student at George Washington University, she wrote film reviews for the old Washington Times-Herald.
She graduated from Syracuse University in 1949.
She graduated from New York University in the 1930's, having studied journalism there; she sometimes fudged dates to hide her age.
She studied voice and viola at San Jose State University and, upon graduation, became a freelance player in the Bay Area noted for her expertise in contemporary music.
She completed a master's degree in education there at the University of Southern California.
In 1949, while on a two-month vacation in Paris, where her sister Lois Towles was touring with the concert choir of Fisk University, Ms. Church decided to try modeling there.
The cause was complications of a broken arm she suffered on June 30, said Sabine Feisst, a professor of musicology at Arizona State University who is writing a book on Dr. Newlin.
One continuing thread: she was a professor at various universities, until her retirement from Virginia Commonwealth University two years ago.
Her parents, both academics, soon moved to East Lansing, Mich., to teach at what is now Michigan State University.
After graduating from Michigan State at 16, she settled with her mother in Los Angeles so that she could attend the University of California at Los Angeles and study with Schoenberg, who taught there.
She also taught drama and folklore at the University of the West Indies, and was on the staff of the Jamaica Broadcasting Corporation briefly in 1959, but resigned to pursue a freelance career.
''
        Dr. Susan Gerbino, a professor at the New York University School of Social Work, said: ''She was way ahead of her time.
Mrs. Foster graduated from Brooklyn College in 1955 and earned a master's degree from the Columbia University School of Social Work three years later.
In May 1966, eight months after Mrs. Foster's article sent ripples through the social work field, an international conference on hospice care was held at the Yale University School of Nursing.
Ms. Schonthal was also on the composition faculty at New York University and the Westchester Conservatory of Music.
At the same time, Ms. Walker was enrolled at St. John's University, then in Brooklyn, in a special six-year program in which students earned both a bachelor's degree and a law degree.
Miss Peterson, as she preferred to be called, was known for fostering calm at Barnard's campus in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan during the late 1960's and early 70's, when student demonstrations roiled at the neighboring campus of Columbia University.
She graduated from the University of Kansas in 1937.
After teaching high school mathematics for several years, she returned to the University of Kansas and earned a master's degree in educational psychology in 1943.
Three years later, after teaching mathematics at the university, Miss Peterson was named assistant dean of women.
In 1952, she was promoted to dean of women, and five years later was appointed to a similar post at the University of Wisconsin.
After earning a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Binghamton University in 1973, Mrs. Guggenheimer graduated from Columbia Law School in 1979.
She is survived by her husband, Peter, and their two children: Laura, a paralegal for the Manhattan district attorney's office; and Eric, a sophomore at Cornell University.
In 1982, however, a music historian at the University of Vienna, Oliver Rathkolb, published a doctoral dissertation that revealed details of her party membership.
''
        Born on Nov. 5, 1926, in Palmers Crossing, the daughter of Mack and Annie Mae Ott Jackson, Mrs. Gray Adams was educated at Wilberforce University in Ohio, the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama and Jackson State College in Mississippi.
She went on to serve as a campus minister at Virginia State University and to teach and lecture at schools, colleges and universities across the nation.
The cause was cancer, according to the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory of Columbia University, which announced the death.
She received a bachelor's degree in English and music from Ohio University in 1943, followed the next year by a master's degree in geology from the University of Michigan.
She received a bachelor's degree in English and music from Ohio University in 1943, followed the next year by a master's degree in geology from the University of Michigan.
While working as a geologist for an oil company in Oklahoma, Ms. Tharp earned a degree in mathematics from the University of Tulsa in 1948.
Ms. Raven held a doctorate in art history from John Hopkins University.
The cause was leukemia, said Dr. Jan Abkowitz, the lead physician who treated Butcher at the University of Washington Medical Center.
''
        Born and reared in Cambridge, Mass., before studying at Colorado State University and moving to Alaska, Butcher finished in the top five in 12 of her 17 attempts at the Iditarod from 1978 to 1994.
''There's no question she was a fighter, and she always chose to take risks for the hope she could be cured,'' Dr. Abkowitz, of the University of Washington Medical Center and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, said in a telephone interview.
After training as a psychoanalyst, she taught at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Harvard and Boston University.
Dr. Miller is survived by her husband, S. M. Miller, an emeritus professor of sociology at Boston University.
''
        Born in Detroit, Ms. Delanghe trained in dance at the University of Michigan before moving on to New York City and a dance career that included teaching at Barnard College and the American Dance Festival.
She returned to the University of Michigan in 1974 as a faculty member in the newly formed dance department and became a central figure in the development of modern dance in Michigan over four decades.
She earned a bachelor's degree from Mount Holyoke in 1957; a master's from the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University in 1958; and a Ph.D. from the London School of Economics in 1965.
After earning her doctorate, Ms. Ilchman directed the Peace Corps training program for India and taught at the University of California, Berkeley.
After studying at the University of California, Los Angeles, she embarked for Europe, where she trained with the noted painters Francis Picabia and Stanley William Hayter.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, former president of Notre Dame University, writes: ''Anyone who knows ECD knows that it is as much Iris's creation as it is Stan's.
She also served on numerous boards of directors, including those of J. C. Penney, Brandeis University and the Aspen Institute.
Ms. Richards went on to enroll at Baylor University in Waco on a debate scholarship and married.
After graduating, she and Mr. Richards moved to Austin, where she earned a teaching certificate at the University of Texas in 1955 and taught social studies for several years at Fulmore Middle School.
She appointed the first black regent to the University of Texas and installed the first blacks and women on the state's legendary police force, the Texas Rangers.
She studied interior design at Pratt Institute in the 1950's and historic preservation at Columbia University in the 1970's and until recently worked as an interior designer.
The cause was a pericardial infection after a long illness, said the writer Donald Arthur, who collaborated with Ms. Varnay on her autobiography, ''Fifty-Five Years in Five Acts: My Life in Opera'' (2000, Northeastern University Press).
She graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1940 with a degree in zoology, hoping to become a physician.
The Bayer family also forged women's rowing into a varsity sport at the University of New Hampshire.
Yet a quarter-century earlier, ''Seventeenth Summer'' anticipated many of these authors' concerns, as Teri Lesesne, a professor of library science at Sam Houston State University and a specialist in young-adult literature, explained in a telephone interview yesterday.
She attended the University of Louisville for a year, but then was hired as a photo lab assistant at The Louisville Courier-Journal.
After training at the University of Washington, she went into private practice at the Northwest Asthma and Allergy Center in Seattle, where she became a senior partner and remained for her career.
In 1940, while a student at the University of Minnesota, she turned pro, promoting Wilson Sporting Goods, her longtime sponsor, at clinics and exhibitions.
Professor Ramey was most recently emeritus professor of physiology and biophysics at the Georgetown University School of Medicine, where she had taught for many years.
After graduating from high school at 15, she earned a bachelor's degree in mathematics and biology from Brooklyn College in 1937; a master's in physical chemistry from Columbia in 1940 and a doctorate in physiology from the University of Chicago in 1950.
Before joining the Georgetown faculty in 1956, Professor Ramey taught at Queens College, the University of Tennessee and the University of Chicago.
Before joining the Georgetown faculty in 1956, Professor Ramey taught at Queens College, the University of Tennessee and the University of Chicago.
The death was confirmed by colleagues at the University of Illinois at Chicago, where Dr. Jonasson was a professor of surgery from 1975 to 1987.
Decades later, when she joined Ohio State University in the late 1980's, Dr. Jonasson was believed to be the only woman serving as head of a university department of surgery.
Decades later, when she joined Ohio State University in the late 1980's, Dr. Jonasson was believed to be the only woman serving as head of a university department of surgery.
The daughter of a nurse, Olga Jonasson was born in Peoria, Ill. She attended Northwestern University and in 1958, she received her medical degree from the University of Illinois.
The daughter of a nurse, Olga Jonasson was born in Peoria, Ill. She attended Northwestern University and in 1958, she received her medical degree from the University of Illinois.
She was also a former chief of the division of transplantation surgery at the University of Illinois Hospital.
She attended Baylor University in Waco -- on a debate scholarship -- where she met her future husband, David Richards.
After college, the couple moved to Austin where she earned a teaching certificate at the University of Texas in 1955 and taught social studies for several years at Fulmore Middle School.
Her celebrity, however, carried her onto the boards of several national corporations, including J.C. Penney, Brandeis University and the Aspen Institute.
After graduating from the University of California at Los Angeles, where she studied English, she opened a dress shop where she sold her own designs.
She went on to earn a master's degree in art history from the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University and worked as an editorial associate at Art News magazine.

        Marjorie G. Lewisohn, a Manhattan internist who was the first woman to be a trustee of Johns Hopkins University, died Sept. 16 in Manhattan.
Dr. Lewisohn, who retired from her practice in 1999, was a 1940 graduate of the University of Michigan and a 1943 graduate of the School of Medicine at Johns Hopkins.
She was an associate clinical professor of medicine at the New York Hospital-Cornell University Medical Center.
She attended Syracuse University before enrolling at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York.
Ms. Wang studied French, Russian and English, and earned a degree in physics from Furen Catholic University in Beijing.
She also studied at an American missionary university.
But in 1966, Ms. Wang was part of a group that purged the party leadership of Tsinghua University, and the effort backfired when she came under attack by a militant opponent who accused her of being a counterrevolutionary.
Her daughter, Ting Liu, graduated from Boston University and Harvard Business School and is chairman and president of the Asia Link Group, consultants in corporate finance.
      
Bettye Ackerman was born on Feb. 28, 1924, in Walterboro, S.C. She earned a bachelor's degree in English from Columbia College in Columbia, S.C., in 1945 and afterward studied theater at Columbia University in New York.
Ms. Maxian graduated from Douglass College and the Rutgers University Law School.
She attended Erasmus Hall High School and studied drama at New York University, graduating in 1938.
After earning a bachelor's degree in elementary education from the University of Pittsburgh in 1971, Ms. Campbell taught school in Atlanta for several years before embarking on a career as a freelance journalist.
She dropped out of Boston University after her junior year and moved to Manhattan.
Edithe Judith Miller was born in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. She graduated from Bucknell University and received her medical degree from the Medical College of Pennsylvania in 1951.
from the University of Minnesota in 1939.
Frank Bunker Gilbreth believed that the factory management principles he espoused to his clients could also be applied to his family of six girls and six boys, produced in 17 years; Lillian Moller Gilbreth, who had a Ph.D. from Brown University (earned around 1915, while she had several children at home), was an industrial psychologist and an engineering expert.
At her death, Ms. Willis was a professor of journalism at New York University.
Reared in the Bronx and Queens, she earned a bachelor's degree in English from Barnard in 1962 and afterward did graduate work in comparative literature at the University of California, Berkeley.
She is survived by Mr. Aronowitz, a distinguished professor of sociology at the City University of New York and the Green Party candidate for governor of New York in 2002; their daughter, Nona Willis-Aronowitz, of Manhattan; two siblings, Michael Willis of Johannesburg, South Africa, and Penny Willis of Queens; four stepchildren, Michael O'Connell of Basking Ridge, N.J.; Kim O'Connell of Montclair, N.J.; Alice Finer and Hampton Finer, both of Brooklyn; and two step-grandchildren.
Ms. Willis's other books include ''No More Nice Girls: Countercultural Essays'' (University Press of New England, 1992); and ''Don't Think, Smile!

        Ruth S. Morgenthau, a former professor of international politics at Brandeis University and an adviser to President Jimmy Carter on rural development in poor countries, died on Saturday in Boston.
She also founded the university's graduate program in international sustainable development.
In 1964, she wrote ''Political Parties in French-Speaking West Africa'' (Oxford University Press).
She graduated from Sarah Lawrence College and earned her medical degree from New York University in 1957.
In 1940 she earned a bachelor's degree in speech from Northwestern University; she married Mr. Stokely the same year.

        Eleanor Thomas Elliott, an advocate for women's rights who successfully fought Columbia University's attempt to take over Barnard College in the early 1970s, died Sunday in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 80 and lived in Cross River, N.Y.
The next year, he and his wife moved to Stanford University, where she took an untenured research position.
From 1978 to 1990, Joshua Lederberg was president of the Rockefeller University, the biomedical research institution in New York.
In 1950, she earned her doctorate in bacterial genetics from the University of Wisconsin.
She knew she was ''a kind of special target for the Soviets -- disinformation target,'' she said at a 2003 foreign policy roundtable convened by the Miller Center of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia.
She attended Stephens College in Missouri for two years, then moved to New York, where she earned a bachelor's degree from Barnard College in 1948 and a master's degree from Columbia University in 1950.
In 1967, before completing her doctoral dissertation, she was appointed associate professor at Georgetown University.
The next year, she earned a doctorate in political science at Columbia University.
