''Having both a job and a family broadens one's perspective, which in turn makes a great contribution to a happy home life,'' she told the American Association of University Women in 1950.
After studying economics at Cambridge and English at Johns Hopkins University (where she did her doctoral thesis on 14th-century English mystery dramas), Mrs. McIntosh became an instructor at Bryn Mawr College.
She earned her undergraduate degree from the University of California at Berkeley and her medical degree in 1940 from the University of California at San Francisco.
She earned her undergraduate degree from the University of California at Berkeley and her medical degree in 1940 from the University of California at San Francisco.
Dr. Horstmann spent an additional year training at Vanderbilt University in Nashville and, in 1942, she went to Yale to perform research under Dr. John R. Paul for a year before becoming a specialist in internal medicine.
She graduated from the University of the Pacific in Stockton, Calif.
        She thought briefly about moving to San Francisco.
Her own verse was published in ''Poems, 1947-1961'' by the University of North Carolina Press in 1963, and in two other volumes.
Born in India, Ms. Sewell studied at Cambridge University and came to the United States in 1949.
She taught at Vassar College, the University of Notre Dame and the University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
      
She taught at Vassar College, the University of Notre Dame and the University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
      
She graduated from North Texas State University in 1970.
In 1991 she was named president of the designer clothing line Anne Klein Collection; while working there, she earned a master's degree in literary criticism from New York University.
in art and archaeology from Washington University in St. Louis.
''
        Robert Bogdan, a sociologist at Syracuse University who wrote the 1998 book ''Freak Show: Presenting Human Oddities for Amusement and Profit,'' said that Miss Pushnik came along during the transition between the old it's-all-right-to-stare attitude and a newer view that people with deformities should be looked at, if at all, as medical case studies.
She attended New Utrecht High School in Brooklyn and New York University.
She earned her law degree from St. John's University and passed the New York State Bar exam in 1940.

        Dr. Alexandra Adler, a New York neurologist and psychiatrist who carried on the tradition of her father, Alfred Adler, one of the pioneers of psychoanalytic theory, died Jan. 4 at New York University Hospital.
Dr. Adler received her medical degree in Vienna, where she trained and practiced at the neuropsychiatric clinic of the University of Vienna.
'' In 1980, Miss Anscombe even inherited Wittgenstein's former position, the chair of philosophy at Cambridge University.
Mr. Geach, her husband and sometime collaborator, a professor of philosophy at the University of Birmingham and University of Leeds, put it this way: ''She thought that a theory of ethics without a theory of mind was bound to be bogus.
Mr. Geach, her husband and sometime collaborator, a professor of philosophy at the University of Birmingham and University of Leeds, put it this way: ''She thought that a theory of ethics without a theory of mind was bound to be bogus.
In that essay, as Cora Diamond, a professor at the University of Virginia, explained, Miss Anscombe argued that the concepts of moral obligation and moral beauty were legalistic and should be abandoned.
''
        Born in Yamaguchi Prefecture on Feb. 17, 1899, Ms. Kushida entered the Women's University in Tokyo but dropped out to marry Tamizo Kushida, a Marxist economist who died before the outbreak of World War II.
Ms. Lawrence, who was also known by her married name, Eleanor Steindler, was born in Boston and grew up in Athens, Ohio, where her father, John C. Baker, was president of Ohio University.
After graduation, she got a master's degree in library science from Columbia University, where she was the only black person in her year of the program, said one daughter, the writer Jill Nelson.
In 1942, she became acquisitions supervisor for the Library of Congress in Washington, where she met Stanley Earl Nelson, then a student at Howard University's dentistry school.
Ms. Letheren was stricken while speaking at an alumni banquet Wednesday night at the Schulich School of Business at York University.
She received a doctorate in biophysics from Harvard University in 1968.

        Emily Vermeule, an emeritus professor of classical philology and archaeology at Harvard University who started her career with the discovery of an ancient Mycenaean tomb and went on to conduct excavations in Greece, Turkey, Libya and Cyprus, died on Feb. 6 at her home in Cambridge, Mass.
''Professor Vermeule's role in supervising the excavation of a particularly rich Mycenaean chamber tomb in Athens -- and publishing it -- was a wonderful way to get started as a specialist in the Bronze Age of Greece,'' said Sarah Morris, a professor of classics and archaeology at the University of California at Los Angeles and a former student.
Her teaching career led her from Bryn Mawr to Wellesley to Boston University to Harvard.
She studied literature and art at Morgan State University in Baltimore, then moved to New York, where she worked as a fashion photographer.
She received a master's degree in art from the University of California at Berkeley.
''Nothing had been prepared or planned for this rushed and forced evacuation,'' she wrote in 1983 in a new edition of her book, ''Citizen 13660'' (University of Washington Press), which originally appeared in 1946.
Her other translations included ''The Master and Margarita'' by Bulgakov (Grove Press, 1967); ''Notes From the Underground'' by Dostoyevsky (Bantam, 1974); and ''Soviet Heretic: Essays by Yevgeny Zamyatin'' (University of Chicago Press, 1970) and ''The Fatal Eggs and Other Soviet Satire, 1918-1963'' (Grove Press, 1964-65), both of which she also edited.
Discussing her training in her autobiography, ''Solitary Song'' (Duke University Press, 1989), Miss Koner said she derived her speed and precision from ballet, her smoothness in covering space from Asian dance and her rhythm and dynamics from Spanish dance.
A 1927 graduate of Stanford University, she was a sought-after ingénue in the 1920's and 30's, appearing in Broadway productions like ''Infernal Machine,'' with Lloyd Bridges, and ''Comedy of Good and Evil,'' with Mildred Dunnock.
Mrs. Bevington was a professor emeritus at Duke University, where she joined the faculty in 1943 and retired in 1976.
''
        Born in Afton, N.Y., she earned her philosophy degree from the University of Chicago and a master's degree in English from Columbia University.
''
        Born in Afton, N.Y., she earned her philosophy degree from the University of Chicago and a master's degree in English from Columbia University.
Eventually the couple settled in Durham, N.C., where her husband also joined the Duke University faculty.
The head of the Tamiment Library and the Robert F. Wagner Labor Archives at New York University, Dr. Bernhardt devoted her career to documenting the lives of the largely unsung men and women who built New York City and, day in and day out, nudged it along: sandhogs and seamstresses, pipe fitters and child welfare workers, secretaries and short-order cooks.
She was the author, with Rachel Bernstein, of ''Ordinary People, Extraordinary Lives'' (New York University Press, 2000), a book of photographs and oral histories of working New Yorkers that grew out of an exhibition of the same name at the Museum of the City of New York.
She received a bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan, a master's from Wayne State University and, in 1988, one of the first doctorates from N.Y.U.
She received a bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan, a master's from Wayne State University and, in 1988, one of the first doctorates from N.Y.U.
As a scholar, ''she was one of the few Americans that got into Vietnam before the American buildup there'' in the mid-60's, said Douglas Pike, a historian and director of research at the Vietnam Center at Texas Tech University.
She attended Hunter College and New York University.
Several of her sculptures were commissioned by synagogues, including a 26-foot-long ''Exodus'' for Temple Emanu-El in Yonkers, N.Y.
        She is survived by two daughters, Victoria Tierney of Bandon and Kathe Mayer, of University Heights, Ohio; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
She spent a year at the University of Washington before joining her mother, who was a singing teacher in Hollywood.
In 1968 she became a professor of medicine at State University of New York's Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn.
She also supervised the breast cancer clinic at Downstate's University Hospital of Brooklyn and taught at the New York Medical College in Valhalla from 1982 to 1987.
She received degrees from Wellesley College and Cornell University Medical College.
''
        After earning a degree in English from the University of Wisconsin in 1928, and marrying Kinsey Clymer, a journalist who became a social worker, she tried to return to country life.
Reared in Glen Lyon, Pa., Ms. Gritsavage received her nurse's training at King's County Hospital in Brooklyn, N.Y., earned a pharmacist degree from Temple University in Philadelphia and a master's degree in nursing administration from Incarnate Word College in San Antonio.
''
        Carolyn Robertson Payton was born on May 13, 1925, in Norfolk, Va. She graduated from Bennett College in Greensboro, N.C., and received a master's degree in psychology from the University of Wisconsin.
She earned a doctorate in counseling and school administration from Columbia University Teachers College.
She was a professor of psychology at Livingstone College in Salisbury, N.C.; Virginia State University; what is now Elizabeth City State University in North Carolina; and Howard University.
She was a professor of psychology at Livingstone College in Salisbury, N.C.; Virginia State University; what is now Elizabeth City State University in North Carolina; and Howard University.
She was a professor of psychology at Livingstone College in Salisbury, N.C.; Virginia State University; what is now Elizabeth City State University in North Carolina; and Howard University.
She wrote at length about Chinese dissidents, often befriending them when they visited the West, said Merle Goldman, a professor of Chinese history at Boston University.
By examining South Asia, Mrs. MacFarquhar helped focus the West on an often ignored region, said Amartya Sen, master of Trinity College at Cambridge University and a Nobel Prize-winning economist.

        Wendy A. Rives, director of the often tumultuous psychiatric emergency room at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan, died on March 24 at New York University Medical Center.
Wendy Ann Rives was born on Nov. 1, 1961, in Decatur, Ga. She graduated from the University of Georgia and the Medical College of Georgia, and was trained in psychiatry at Temple University.
Wendy Ann Rives was born on Nov. 1, 1961, in Decatur, Ga. She graduated from the University of Georgia and the Medical College of Georgia, and was trained in psychiatry at Temple University.
Dr. Dunham, a retired professor in the Slavic department at Wayne State University in Detroit, also translated Russian poetry by writers like Yevgeny Yevtushenko, Andrei Voznesensky and Anna Akhmatova, and was a scholar of Soviet and Russian works.
Her books included ''In Stalin's Time: Middleclass Values in Soviet Fiction'' (Duke University Press, 1976).
She earned her doctorate in Slavic philology in 1935 from the University of Erlangen in Germany and a further degree in 1938 from the University of Brussels.
She earned her doctorate in Slavic philology in 1935 from the University of Erlangen in Germany and a further degree in 1938 from the University of Brussels.
Later, she earned a master's degree from Radcliffe College and, in 1961, a doctorate from Teachers College, Columbia University.
In 1926, she married Leo Davidoff, a neurosurgeon who became one of the founders of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University.
Eventually she enrolled at the University of California at Berkeley, where she majored in Italian literature.
Eventually she enrolled at the University of California at Berkeley, where she majored in Italian literature.
She was acting director of the Royal Ontario Museum of Archaeology in 1946 and went on to hold visiting professorship or lectureship at Bryn Mawr, Princeton and Oberlin and at the University of Sydney.
''
        She was born in Chicago, grew up there and graduated from the University of Wisconsin.
When she was 17, she went to the University of London, where she became a protégée of Moshe Sharett, who later became the second prime minister of Israel.
She was a co-founder of the English Department at Hebrew University, helped found a self-help organization for Arab women and traveled around the world marshaling support for the Jewish state.
She then taught English at the University of California at Berkeley and became the second woman to receive tenure in Berkeley's English department.
Among her published works are ''The Matter of Araby in Medieval England'' (Yale University Press, 1977) and ''Melville's Orienda'' (Yale University Press, 1960).
Among her published works are ''The Matter of Araby in Medieval England'' (Yale University Press, 1977) and ''Melville's Orienda'' (Yale University Press, 1960).

        Marie Jahoda, one of the world's foremost social psychologists and an emeritus professor at the University of Sussex, died on April 28 at her home in Keymer, in southeast England.
Dr. Jahoda, who taught at New York University in the 1950's, was 94.
Born in Vienna, Marie Jahoda absorbed the teachings of Freud and Jung and received her doctorate at the University of Vienna.
She came to the United States after World War II and worked as a researcher for the American Jewish Committee and at Columbia University before moving to N.Y.U.
She worked as a researcher and teacher at the University of Sussex from 1965.
He became a professor of sociology at Columbia University and died in 1976.
She grew up in Nebraska and graduated from the University of Nebraska.
Dr. Anastasi, a former professor at Fordham University who remained professionally active until shortly before her death, was known as the ''test guru.
Dr. Robert Perloff, the distinguished service professor emeritus of psychology and business administration at the University of Pittsburgh, said that Dr. Anastasi, who wrote more than 150 scholarly books, monographs and articles, brought to the issue a balanced, deeply rational perspective and an insistence on solid science.
In 1930, Dr. Anastasi was hired as an instructor of psychology at Barnard, and she remained there until 1939, when she became chairwoman of the psychology department at Queens College of the City University of New York.
Her early employment included curatorial and educational positions at the Yale University Art Gallery, the Lyman Allen Museum in New London, Conn., and the Rhode Island School of Design Museum of Art in Providence.
In 1975, she was also responsible for an innovative curatorial exchange whereby she and Hugh MacAndrew of the Ashmolean Museum at Oxford University exchanged positions and houses for a year.
She also conducted interviews with jazz musicians for the Smithsonian Institution and Rutgers University.
In 1988 the Helen Oakley Dance and Stanley Dance Archive was established at Yale University, encompassing correspondence, writings, interviews, records, photographs and films; it will become available to researchers later this year.
Mrs. Moses, a Fulbright scholar, was an adjunct professor of journalism at the New York University Graduate School of Journalism last year and had taught in 13 African countries since 1991 as part of the United States Information Agency's Visiting Scholars Program, her husband said.
Ms. Moyer was also a poet and the chairwoman of the Potter Hill School, a private school near Kingston, R.I..
        Born in Indianapolis, she graduated from the University of Wisconsin and received a master's degree in creative writing from the University of Illinois at Chicago.
Ms. Moyer was also a poet and the chairwoman of the Potter Hill School, a private school near Kingston, R.I..
        Born in Indianapolis, she graduated from the University of Wisconsin and received a master's degree in creative writing from the University of Illinois at Chicago.
She graduated from Smith College in 1948 and from the University of Rochester Medical School in 1952.
She directed pediatric and adolescent programs at New York University, Bellevue Hospital, St. Luke's Hospital and Beth Israel Hospital in New York.
After moving to California, she was affiliated with the Children's Hospital of Orange County and the University of California at Irvine.
''
        She studied mathematics and economics at University College in London, but left before earning her degree to marry Mr. Verey in 1939, and proceeded to raise four children, like a proper English gentlewoman of her day.
Born in Indiana, Pa., she graduated with a degree in biology from Indiana University of Pennsylvania in 1985 and from the Medical College of Pennsylvania four years later.
After a residency in family medicine, she trained in space medicine at the University of Texas and at the Johnson Space Center.
She received a degree in international law from the University of Geneva.
She spent two years at Vassar before transferring to the University of Chicago.
Mrs. Graham served on the board of The Associated Press, and was chairwoman and president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, director of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau Inc. and a trustee of George Washington University, the University of Chicago and the Urban Institute.
Mrs. Graham served on the board of The Associated Press, and was chairwoman and president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, director of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau Inc. and a trustee of George Washington University, the University of Chicago and the Urban Institute.
She became interested in art at an early age and enrolled in the New College at Columbia University, where the experimental program enabled her to study in Paris, in the studio of the painter André L'Hote, in 1934.
She stayed to study at the University of Illinois and Columbia University.
She stayed to study at the University of Illinois and Columbia University.
''
        Miss Welty attended the Mississippi State College for Women, where she helped to start a literary magazine, and then the University of Wisconsin, where she earned a bachelor's degree in 1929.
After college Miss Welty told her parents that she wanted to be a writer, but she said that her father insisted that she ''learn something to fall back on'' to support herself, so she took advertising courses at the Columbia University School of Business.
Frances Rappaport was born in Ottawa, Ohio, on July 16, 1908, and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago in 1929.
She earned her doctorate in education from Northwestern University in 1942.
She taught first grade, supervised nursery schools in Chicago, was a principal, and held professorships in education at the University of North Carolina and Roosevelt College in Chicago.
When Dr. Neugarten began her research on aging at the University of Chicago in the 1940's, she discovered little scientific literature in the field, but many stereotypes, which she proceeded to shatter.
Dr. Neugarten completed her bachelor's degree at the University of Chicago in 1936 and received her doctorate there in 1943.
Then the university asked her to teach a course on aging -- one of the first at the university level -- and to work on a study of middle-aged and older people in the Midwest.
Then the university asked her to teach a course on aging -- one of the first at the university level -- and to work on a study of middle-aged and older people in the Midwest.
She was an emeritus professor of behavioral science at the University of Chicago's Center on Aging, Health and Society.
Over the years she taught English, creative writing and women's studies at Goddard, the State University of New York and New York University.
Over the years she taught English, creative writing and women's studies at Goddard, the State University of New York and New York University.
She also was on the writing faculty of New School University in New York City and lectured widely on writing, women writers, women's issues and cultural history.
Ms. Kilgallen's work is currently in ''East Meets West,'' an exhibition at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Philadelphia through July 29, and at Stanford University, where she received a master's degree on June 17.
She graduated from the University of Sydney in 1938 and joined the staff of the Red Cross Blood Transfusion Service there.
She received a Ph.D. from the University of London in 1948, two years after she went to work as a researcher in the blood group unit of the Medical Research Council.

        Laura Foreman, the director of dance at the New School University and a visual artist, writer and teacher, died on June 15 in Manhattan.
Ms. Foreman came to New York in the mid-1960's after receiving a degree in dance from the University of Wisconsin at Madison.
After she earned bachelor's and master's degrees from New York University, she worked with Dr. George Blinick to found the midwifery program at Beth Israel.
Serving as its director until 1983, Ms. Roy taught midwifery and instructed medical students from Yale University.
She graduated from the University of Michigan with a bachelor's degree in English and science.
She studied retailing at New York University, and earned a master's degree in library science and education from C. W. Post College on Long Island.
She acted in school plays, attended the University of New Mexico and eventually graduated with a degree in psychology from the University of Texas.
She acted in school plays, attended the University of New Mexico and eventually graduated with a degree in psychology from the University of Texas.
Ms. Freeman, however, had already caught the acting bug, a condition that only grew worse when she got a bit part in a play while attending the University of California at Los Angeles to study music.
She earned a bachelor of arts degree in English at the University of California, Riverside, in 1969 and was a Stegner Fellow in Poetry at Stanford University during a year of study there.
She earned a bachelor of arts degree in English at the University of California, Riverside, in 1969 and was a Stegner Fellow in Poetry at Stanford University during a year of study there.
She worked as a lecturer in creative writing at the University of California, Riverside, from 1980 to 1984 and as an assistant professor of English at Yale from 1984 to 1986.
In addition to ''Adam's Task,'' she was the author of ''Animal Happiness'' (HarperCollins, 1994) and a novel, ''The White German Shepherd'' (Atlantic Monthly Press, 1988); three volumes of poetry: ''Nervous Horses'' (University of Texas Press, 1980), ''In the Absence of Horses'' (Princeton University Press, 1984) and ''The Parts of Light'' (Johns Hopkins, 1994); and many essays and articles.
In addition to ''Adam's Task,'' she was the author of ''Animal Happiness'' (HarperCollins, 1994) and a novel, ''The White German Shepherd'' (Atlantic Monthly Press, 1988); three volumes of poetry: ''Nervous Horses'' (University of Texas Press, 1980), ''In the Absence of Horses'' (Princeton University Press, 1984) and ''The Parts of Light'' (Johns Hopkins, 1994); and many essays and articles.
She taught art education at New York University and worked in various media throughout her life.
In her next book, ''Previous Convictions: A Journey Through the 1950's'' (1995, Rutgers University Press), she dug deeper into the period.
Her first book, a collection of pieces titled ''Sixties Going on Seventies'' (Rutgers University Press) -- which covered everything from student strikes and yippies to the 1972 Democratic and Republican Conventions  -- led to her employment at The New York Times in 1973 when her book was recommended to Arthur Gelb, then managing editor of the paper, as deserving of a review.
' ''
        In 1981 she became a visiting lecturer in Columbia University's writing program.

        Isadora Wexler Quinlan, the executive director of the Books for Kids Foundation, a nonprofit literacy organization, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.

        Barbara Matera, a costumer who for five decades dressed the casts of the New York City Ballet, the Metropolitan Opera, movies and more than 100 Broadway shows, died on Thursday at the New York University Medical Center in New York.
She attended the University of North Carolina.
''It is clearly a hot area right now,'' said Dr. Sidney C. Smith, a professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the chief science officer for the American Heart Association.
The notion received a cooler response in the late 1970's, when Mrs. Fabricant, a researcher at Cornell University, began making a case for it along with a few other scientists.
She studied comparative biochemistry and physiology at the University of Kansas, graduating in 1967, and got her master's degree from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in 1969.
She studied comparative biochemistry and physiology at the University of Kansas, graduating in 1967, and got her master's degree from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in 1969.

        Germaine Brée, a prolific scholar of French literature who helped introduce a generation of Americans to the work of Camus, Sartre and other modern French writers, died on Sept. 22 at her home in Winston-Salem, N.C., a spokeswoman for Wake Forest University said.
She earned a graduate degree from the University of Paris and taught in Algeria.
After the war, in 1953, Ms. Brée was appointed chairwoman of the French department at New York University's Washington Square College of Arts and Science, only the second woman in the college's history to chair a department.

        Germaine Brée, a prolific scholar of French literature who helped introduce a generation of Americans to the work of Camus, Sartre and other modern French writers, died on Sept. 22 at her home in Winston-Salem, N.C., a spokeswoman for Wake Forest University said.
She earned a graduate degree from the University of Paris and taught in Algeria.
After the war, in 1953, Ms. Brée was appointed chairwoman of the French department at New York University's Washington Square College of Arts and Science, only the second woman in the college's history to chair a department.
''
        In 1936 she enrolled in the University of California at Berkeley, where she majored in philosophy.
Dr. Calloway had Parkinson's disease, said the University of California at Berkeley, where she was a professor and a provost emeritus.
She also was the first woman to enter the ranks of the university's top administrators, becoming provost of its 13 professional schools and colleges in 1981.
The university created a laboratory for them on the fourth floor of Morgan Hall.
Born Doris Howes in Canton, Ohio, she graduated from Ohio State University in 1943.
She received her Ph.D. in nutrition at the University of Chicago in 1947.
She principally taught at Teachers College of Columbia University and at the Graduate School of Education at the University of California, from which she retired in 1980.
She principally taught at Teachers College of Columbia University and at the Graduate School of Education at the University of California, from which she retired in 1980.
Afterward, she was a Fulbright fellow at Macquarie University in New South Wales, Australia, and a visiting professor at Mills College in Oakland, Calif.
        She wrote extensively in journals and books, some of which remain in print as classic textbooks.
She started teaching at the University of Cincinnati.
in 1960, and Yale University, where she earned an M.A.
She taught English at Hofstra University and the City University of New York.
She taught English at Hofstra University and the City University of New York.
In the mid-1960's, she helped design a pioneering writing curriculum for the Open Admissions Program at City College, and she later became writing program specialist at the City University's instructional resource center.
Barbara Kay Bracher Olson was born on Dec. 27, 1955, in Houston, and trained to be a teacher at the University of St. Thomas in her hometown.
Stacy Keach finally offered her a job, Mr. Olson recalled this week, and when she saved enough money to go to law school, she moved to New York to attend the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University.
''
        Mrs. Crawford then worked her way through what is now Pan American University, where she earned an associate's degree, while cleaning toilets for money and wearing damaged clothing to make ends meet.
She earned a bachelor's degree from Baylor University and a master's degree from the University of Texas, writing a thesis titled, ''The Educational Value of Drill Teams in the High School Curriculum.
She earned a bachelor's degree from Baylor University and a master's degree from the University of Texas, writing a thesis titled, ''The Educational Value of Drill Teams in the High School Curriculum.
''
        Mrs. Crawford coached cheerleaders for the University of Southern California, the University of California at Los Angeles, the Los Angeles Rams of the National Football League and the Los Angeles Express of the defunct United States Football League.
''
        Mrs. Crawford coached cheerleaders for the University of Southern California, the University of California at Los Angeles, the Los Angeles Rams of the National Football League and the Los Angeles Express of the defunct United States Football League.
Born in Chicago and reared by her grandmother, Ms. Foster studied at the Goodman Theater School of Drama and made her professional debut in the County Theater at the University of Chicago.

        Joan L. Ellenbogen, the main founder and first president of the Women's Bar Association of the State of New York, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
A native of New York City, she held a bachelor's degree from Queens College and a law degree from New York University.
Born in Brooklyn, she earned a law degree at Columbia University and practiced law in Westchester before becoming a judge.
''
        Ms. Shanahan grew up in Washington and received a bachelor's degree  from George Washington University in 1944.
Then she learned about Chinese cooking as a student of poetic structure at the National University in Taiwan.

        Mitzi Myers, an internationally recognized authority on children's literature and a longtime lecturer at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on Nov. 5 at her temporary residence in Anaheim Hills, Calif. She was 62.
Dr. Myers had been on medical leave from the university after the fire on Aug. 13, 2000, which left her with second- and third-degree burns and respiratory problems.
She received bachelor's and master's degrees from East Texas State University and a Ph.D. from Rice University in Houston.
She received bachelor's and master's degrees from East Texas State University and a Ph.D. from Rice University in Houston.
She earned a bachelor's degree from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1951.
Ms. Locke taught for more than 40 years, from elementary to university level, and lectured on Indian issues throughout the United States.
Dr. Kleber, a psychiatrist who is the director of the Division on Substance Abuse at Columbia University and the New York State Psychiatric Institute, said his wife was the first research scientist since Freud to use controlled scientific experiments with humans to directly examine cocaine's effects.
She graduated from Barnard College, earned a master's degree in psychology from Columbia and went to the University of Chicago to pursue her doctorate.
In 1984, she moved to Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, where she continued her cocaine work, setting up a residential laboratory where users could live for up to four weeks at a time.
''A lot of what we know about how cocaine affects humans is the result of her work,'' said  David M. McDowell, a Columbia University scientist who is one of many young researchers she mentored.
Her projects included ''Six Heritage Tours of the Lower East Side,'' published by the New York University Press in 1997.
She later received a teaching degree from Columbia University.
In 1940, she received a master's degree from the University of Pennsylvania, where she studied elementary education and psychology, with emphasis on educational testing and measurements.
Dr. Schor, the Benjamin F. Barge professor of French at Yale University, brought French psychoanalytic and deconstructive theory to French studies in the United States, said Joan W. Scott, a professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.
        As one example of how this worked, she cited Dr. Schor's essay on fetishism in the novels of George Sand, the cigar-smoking, cross-dressing novelist who was the most widely celebrated female writer in France in the 1800's.
''
        She relentlessly challenged conventional understanding in her teaching and writing as well as in a feminist journal she helped found in 1989 at the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women at Brown University.
''
        Her literary and philosophical interests always seemed to be slightly ahead of the newest academic currents, said Sharon Marcus, an English professor at the University of California at Berkeley and a former student of Dr. Schor's.
''Betty Holberton was a real software pioneer,'' said Donald E. Knuth, a professor emeritus at Stanford University and author of the three-volume ''The Art of Computer Programming,'' the profession's defining treatise.
Mrs. Holberton, a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, was one of the six young women recruited by the Army to program the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer, which became known by its evocative acronym, Eniac.
In a 1983 interview conducted for the Charles Babbage Institute, a computing history center at the University of Minnesota, Mrs. Holberton conceded some of the criticisms of the language she helped develop.
in art history from Smith College in 1972, and, later, a master's and a doctorate from the City University of New York.
Beginning in 1953, Mrs. Matter taught at the Philadelphia College of Art (now University of the Arts), Pratt Institute and New York University.
Beginning in 1953, Mrs. Matter taught at the Philadelphia College of Art (now University of the Arts), Pratt Institute and New York University.
For more than 45 years Ms. Hubley made a film a year, an achievement that Dan McLaughlin, head of the animation workshop at the University of California at Los Angeles, called unbelievable.
At the time of her death, Ms. Hubley was a senior critic in the department of art at Yale University.
Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism awarded her the Meyer Berger Award for distinguished reporting in 1980, citing her ''consistently warm and perceptive glimpses of the little and large dramas of New York.
''
        Ms. Johnston was born in Fort Collins, Colo., and grew up in Albany, Ore. She studied English and journalism at the University of Oregon, and after graduating worked at several West Coast newspapers.
