The cause was pneumonia, said John Cummings, associate chancellor at the University of California, Berkeley, where I. Michael Heyman, Mrs. Heyman's husband, is a former chancellor and a professor at the law school.
Dr. Kay Redfield Jamison, a professor of psychiatry at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine who met Dr. Braiker in graduate school, said she ''brought an extremely strong theoretical background to popular writing.
She graduated summa cum laude from the University of California, Los Angeles, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and won a National Science Foundation research scholarship.
She was a voice student at the Chicago Music Conservatory, from which she graduated, and continued her voice studies briefly at the Yale University School of Music and at Juilliard.
As a researcher first at St. Petersburg University and later at the Steklov Institute of Mathematics, also in St. Petersburg, she worked through the solutions for the equations, which show how a number of variables relate in time and space.
''Ladyzhenskaya did not describe the basic equations, but she contributed significantly to their solutions,'' said Dr. Peter D. Lax of the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences at New York University.
''
        Olga Aleksandrovna Ladyzhenskaya graduated from Moscow State University and received a doctorate from Leningrad State University before earning another doctorate from Moscow State in 1953.
''
        Olga Aleksandrovna Ladyzhenskaya graduated from Moscow State University and received a doctorate from Leningrad State University before earning another doctorate from Moscow State in 1953.
After teaching in the physics department at St. Petersburg University, she joined the Steklov Institute, which is affiliated with the Russian Academy of Sciences.
Dr. Marshall Slemrod, a mathematician with the University of Wisconsin, said Dr. Ladyzhenskaya had an American counterpart in John Nash, the Princeton mathematician and Nobel laureate whose life is depicted in the film ''A Beautiful Mind,'' and who also studied partial differential equations.
She received a master's degree in education from Boston University, and staged operas and taught speech therapy, dance and drama in Boston and Cambridge, Mass.
She attended Wayne State University, where she established a film society before moving to New York and finding work as a librarian at CBS for its documentary series ''The 20th Century.
Dr. Marx worked at Beth Israel Hospital for more than a decade before joining the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University in 1955.
She received her medical degree from the University of Bern, in Switzerland, in 1937, before immigrating to the United States.
'' It was derived from the Oxford Companion to New Zealand Literature (Oxford University Press), as reprinted on the New Zealand Book Council's web site, www.bookcouncil.org.nz.
      
Four years after Mrs. Fisher's Alzheimer's disease was diagnosed, the Fisher Medical Foundation joined David Rockefeller in providing $5 million for the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Center for Research on Alzheimer's Disease at Rockefeller University.
When Uta was 7, the family moved to Madison, Wis., where her father was head of the department of art history at the University of Wisconsin (her mother was an opera singer).
She studied briefly at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London, and at the University of Wisconsin, and left college -- and left home -- to pursue an acting career.
Born Randy Goldfield in New York to Mark and Estelle Goldfield, she grew up in Dumont, N.J., and attended New York University.
Mary Jean Crenshaw, an Army brat, was born in Fort Sill, Okla., and educated at Stanford University, the University of Texas at Austin and the University of Chicago before she received a master's degree in sociology at Wayne State University.
Mary Jean Crenshaw, an Army brat, was born in Fort Sill, Okla., and educated at Stanford University, the University of Texas at Austin and the University of Chicago before she received a master's degree in sociology at Wayne State University.
Mary Jean Crenshaw, an Army brat, was born in Fort Sill, Okla., and educated at Stanford University, the University of Texas at Austin and the University of Chicago before she received a master's degree in sociology at Wayne State University.
Mary Jean Crenshaw, an Army brat, was born in Fort Sill, Okla., and educated at Stanford University, the University of Texas at Austin and the University of Chicago before she received a master's degree in sociology at Wayne State University.
She raised five children and lectured in sociology at Long Island University, Brooklyn, for several years in the late 1960's.
Mr. Junco, heir to what was then a small family-owned newspaper company that published El Norte in Monterrey, studied journalism with Dr. Gardner at the University of Texas.
''She had an enormous influence on the quality of journalism in Mexico, and in Latin America as well,'' said Richard Cole, dean of the University of North Carolina journalism school and another former student of Dr. Gardner's.
A pre-med student at Ohio State University, she was informed that medical school was not an option because she was a woman.
In 1960, she received a doctorate in journalism and political science from the University of Minnesota, where she began her teaching career.
In 1961 she moved to the University of Texas, where she was an assistant professor until 1966.
She then taught at the Michigan State University School of Journalism until she retired in 1991.
In 1999, with Jeffrey L. Edleson, a professor at the University of Minnesota, she wrote a set of guidelines for professionals in civil courts, child welfare services and domestic violence programs.
She received a bachelor's degree from Washington University in St. Louis and a master's degree in social work from the University of Illinois at Chicago.
She received a bachelor's degree from Washington University in St. Louis and a master's degree in social work from the University of Illinois at Chicago.
She had been a clinical professor of social work at the University of Iowa since 1993.
She became immersed in civil rights after studying philosophy at Vanderbilt University.
She married a man who became a minister of music, and followed him to churches in Delaware, Pennsylvania and Iowa, where she developed women's programs at Drake University.
She received a master's degree in business education from New York University.
Miss Lowenthal graduated from Walton High School, earned degrees from Queens College and New York University and worked for her father as an X-ray technician.
The new organization took the name of Mr. Klot's organization and found a home at the Bronx Community College, part of the City University of New York.
After graduating from Indiana University in 1985 with a degree in journalism, she moved to New York and worked in entry-level jobs at several Condé Nast magazines.
Patricia Falkenhain was born in Atlanta and graduated from New York University.
A rebellious girl and brilliant student, she was thrown out of convent school, went on to study journalism in Berlin and, while teaching kindergarten and first grade, attended the University of Heidelberg.
At the University of Freiburg, she received a doctorate in philosophy in 1930.
A 1975 graduate of New York University, Mrs. Zarr received a masters degree in English literature there in 1985.
Born in New York City in 1920, Ms. Kornblee studied at Bryn Mawr College and later took art history courses at New York University's Institute of Fine Art.
In 12 books and many other writings, Dr. McCord, a professor at Temple University, disputed the effectiveness in fighting crime of boys' clubs, summer camps, programs in which young offenders visit prisons, D.A.R.E.
Ms. Schwarz was a former member of the dance advisory panel of the National Endowment for the Arts, and she held honorary doctorates from Wright State University, in Dayton, and the University of Dayton.
Ms. Schwarz was a former member of the dance advisory panel of the National Endowment for the Arts, and she held honorary doctorates from Wright State University, in Dayton, and the University of Dayton.
She received a bachelor's degree in liberal arts from Lake Erie College in 1958 and a master's degree in speech therapy from New York University in 1970.
She graduated from Vassar College and earned her law degree from the University of Michigan.
She received a bachelor's degree in music education from DePaul University and a doctorate in psychology from the University of Chicago.
She received a bachelor's degree in music education from DePaul University and a doctorate in psychology from the University of Chicago.
Ms. Edwards, born Odessa Glasgoe in Birmingham, earned a bachelor's degree from Miles College there and a master's degree from the University of Alabama at Birmingham.
in education and psychology from Fairfield University.
She came to this country as a Wein Scholar at Brandeis University, from which she graduated in 1965.
She received two master's degrees in astronomy: from Aegean University in Izmir, Turkey, in 1970, and the University of Virginia in 1972, as well as a Ph.D. in astronomy in Izmir in 1982.
She received two master's degrees in astronomy: from Aegean University in Izmir, Turkey, in 1970, and the University of Virginia in 1972, as well as a Ph.D. in astronomy in Izmir in 1982.
Before she became director of the variable-stars association, she briefly served as an assistant to her predecessor and taught physics and astronomy at the American College Institute in Turkey and Aegean University.
The Joseph H. Lauder Institute of Management and International Studies was founded at the University of Pennsylvania in 1983.
When she left the Barnard presidency in 1967 after five years, she became the first woman to be a vice chancellor at the University of California.
At her Barnard inauguration in 1963, she said that ''to avoid becoming a nursery school to the university with custodial and elementary responsibilities only,'' the college must make its liberal arts more sophisticated.
But she left after five years, pulled by her marriage in 1965 to Milton Vasil Anastos, a professor of Byzantine Greek at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Of her departure for California, David Truman, dean of Columbia College, wrote in Barnard's alumnae magazine that although she was the only woman at many Columbia meetings, her wisdom and humor gave weight to her advice and made her ''one of the best men in the university.
She later studied at the University of Bonn in 1930 and in 1934 earned a Ph.D. at the University of Cologne.
She later studied at the University of Bonn in 1930 and in 1934 earned a Ph.D. at the University of Cologne.
She retired in 1989 to teach at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
As a student at the University of Minnesota in the early 1930's, she and an African-American classmate helped integrate restaurants in Minneapolis.
In 1932, Ms. Jeffrey received a bachelor's degree in psychology from the University of Minnesota, where she immersed herself in the socialist and progressive movements.
''
        Ms. Jeffrey ran for only one office, when she was elected in Michigan to the board of governors of Wayne State University in Detroit.
Three years ago, Ms. Jeffrey told a University of Minnesota magazine: ''My underlying goal was always to empower women.
She also took art classes with Clyfford Still at Virginia Commonwealth University.
She donated work to the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts and the Snite Museum of Art at Notre Dame University, as well as to the Brooklyn Museum, which organized an exhibition of 30 of her West and Central African marks and figural sculptures in 2000.
Mrs. Lester studied biology at Marylhurst University near Portland, but left college at 20 to pursue photography in Manhattan.

        Mary McGrory, an unapologetic liberal who chronicled 50 years of scandal, war, Congressional turmoil and political heartbreak as a columnist for The Washington Star and The Washington Post, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Hospital.
Their other beneficiaries included cultural, educational and medical institutions in eastern Pennsylvania, the American Jewish Committee, the Jewish Publication Society, and the Hadassah Medical Organization and Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
They established the Philip and Muriel Berman Center for Jewish Studies at Lehigh University, and the Center for Biblical Archaeology at Hebrew University.
They established the Philip and Muriel Berman Center for Jewish Studies at Lehigh University, and the Center for Biblical Archaeology at Hebrew University.
She was born Muriel Mallin in Pittsburgh, studied at the University of Pittsburgh and what is now Carnegie Mellon University, and graduated from the Pennsylvania College of Optometry.
She was born Muriel Mallin in Pittsburgh, studied at the University of Pittsburgh and what is now Carnegie Mellon University, and graduated from the Pennsylvania College of Optometry.
Born in New York, Ms. Lelyveld attended Brandeis University and graduated from the School of General Studies at Columbia.
''Most Americans' perception of India came through Kamala Markandaya,'' said Charles Larson, chairman of the department of literature at American University in Washington.
She studied history at the University of Madras and worked as a journalist.
She graduated from Cornell in 1968 and later earned a master's degree in sociology at the University of Wisconsin and a law degree from Stanford University.
She graduated from Cornell in 1968 and later earned a master's degree in sociology at the University of Wisconsin and a law degree from Stanford University.
In 2000, she went to El Salvador as a Fulbright scholar to help develop a clinical legal program for the Technical University of El Salvador.
Eliza Virginia Capers was born in Sumter, S.C., and attended Howard University and the Juilliard School.
Smith of Rhodes University.
''With that action, Courtenay-Latimer became the point person and den mother for all who were to study the fish,'' said Dr. Keith S. Thomson, professor emeritus of natural history at Oxford University and author of the book ''Living Fossil: The Story of the Coelacanth'' (1991).
Dr. William E. Bemis, an evolutionary biologist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, said studies of the fish's eye muscles, used to close its jaws, had provided important links to how similar muscles in frogs and vertebrates worked.
In 1971, she received an honorary doctorate from Rhodes University.
After retiring, Mrs. McMenamin was interim head of San Francisco University High School in the late 1990's.
Mrs. McMenamin's husband of 51 years, Edward B. McMenamin, a former secretary of Columbia University, died in 1994.
After graduating from the Eastman School of Music at the University of Rochester in 1958, Ms. Haddad, who was born in Canton, Ohio, started working as an administrator at Columbia Records, in the classical music division run by Goddard Lieberson.
Myra Waldo was born in Manhattan and attended Columbia University.
Interested in art since childhood, she received a bachelor's degree in fine arts from the California College of the Arts, where the painter Richard Diebenkorn was one of her teachers, and a master's degree in fine arts from Tulane University, where she studied with Mark Rothko.
Born in Seattle, she graduated from the University of California, Berkeley.
'' Her writing was published in ''Feelings'' as well as in ''Daring to Be Bad: Radical Feminism in America, 1967-1975,'' by Alice Echols (University of Minnesota Press, 1989), The Brooklyn Phoenix and The Village Voice.
She received a bachelor's and a master's degree from New York University.
Correction:  July 19, 2004, Monday  An obituary of the radical feminist and writer Corinne Grad Coleman on July 11 misstated her connection to the book ''Daring to Be Bad: Radical Feminism in America, 1967-1975,'' by Alice Echols (University of Minnesota Press, 1989).
She developed a considerable reputation as a dynamic teacher, holding posts at the University of Southern California, the Idyllwild arts school (accepting an appointment there without signing its loyalty oath) and the California Institute of the Arts.
She earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Colorado in two years and finished law school there at 20, then became the youngest woman admitted to the Colorado bar.
''
        From there, Miss Watanabe continued her studies at the University of Japan in Tokyo.
She received her medical degree from the University of Zurich in 1957.
Within a year, she moved to the United States; married Dr. Emanuel K. Ross, an American neuropathologist she had met at the university; began her internship at Community Hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y.; and become a research fellow at Manhattan State Hospital.
In 1962, she became a teaching fellow at the University of Colorado School of Medicine in Denver.
In 1965, Dr. Kübler-Ross became an assistant professor in psychiatry at the University of Chicago Medical School, where a group of theology students approached her for help in studying death.
Carl Nighswonger, she interviewed dying patients at Billings Memorial, the university's teaching hospital, while the theology students observed from a one-way glass.
She also underwrote the construction of a library at the University of San Diego.
With full panache intact at 51 -- her black skirt is short, her patent heels are high, her blue Hermès scarf is, like that 600-pound granite gargoyle on a corner pedestal, a gift from colleagues at the City University of New York, where she was executive vice chancellor -- Ms. Mirrer is an avowed fan of blockbusters on a national scale.
This is no time, she says, for the society to do the museum equivalent of contemplating its navel, or the city's, though the focus on the latter was an inarguable strength of her predecessor, Kenneth T. Jackson, a Columbia University historian.
Ms. Mirrer was a pre-med major at the University of Pennsylvania until a curriculum requirement -- a history course -- changed her trajectory.
She received a linguistics degree from Cambridge and a doctorate at Stanford and came to CUNY, where she supervised a revamping of the admissions policy, from the University of Minnesota.
Her second marriage, to the University of California, Los Angeles, sociologist, David Halle, is on commuter terms: neither wished to become ''a faculty spouse.
She attended the University of California, Berkeley, and graduated in 1966 from Macalester College in St. Paul, Minn., with a bachelor's degree in fine arts.
She was born Helen Ruth Overholt in Minneapolis and graduated summa cum laude in 1943 from the University of California, Los Angeles, where she also received a master's degree in 1953.
In the 1950's she taught languages at U.C.L.A., Goucher College in Maryland and New York University.
Her death was announced by the Yale University Gallery of Art.
During more than two decades at Yale she also organized and wrote catalogs for numerous exhibitions at the Yale University Art Gallery, including ''The Futurist Imagination: Word + Image in Italian Futurist Painting, Drawing, Collage and Free-Word Poetry'' in 1983 and ''Severini Futurista, 1912-1917'' in 1995.
After attending Skidmore College, she earned a bachelor of fine arts degree in painting from the University of Southern California in 1943.
She earned a master's degree in painting from the University of North Carolina in 1951.
By the late 1950's she was recently divorced, teaching art at the University of Buffalo and supporting three small children.
Over the next several years Professor Hanson taught at Swarthmore College, Bryn Mawr and New York University and was a consultant at the International Study Center of the Museum of Modern Art.
Professor Hanson served as president of the College Art Association (1972-74), was acting head of the Yale University Art Gallery (1986-87) and a Samuel H. Kress professor at the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts at the National Gallery of Art, Washington (1992-93).
She received her Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1974.
After teaching at Indiana University and Princeton University, she spent a decade at Duke University, serving as head of the art history department for three years, before moving to Rutgers.
After teaching at Indiana University and Princeton University, she spent a decade at Duke University, serving as head of the art history department for three years, before moving to Rutgers.
After teaching at Indiana University and Princeton University, she spent a decade at Duke University, serving as head of the art history department for three years, before moving to Rutgers.
Her books included ''Piety and Patronage in Renaissance Venice: Bellini, Titian and the Franciscans'' (Yale, 1986); ''Spirituality in Conflict: Saint Francis and Giotto's Bardi Chapel'' (University of Pennsylvania Press, 1988); ''Titian's Women'' (Yale, 1994); and ''Renaissance Rivals: Michelangelo, Leonardo, Raphael, Titian'' (Yale, 2002).
''
        Roger Shattuck, a cultural historian and professor of French at Boston University, said in 1995 that Ms. Sagan's reputation ''had declined considerably after her first half-dozen novels'' because she wrote too much and repeated herself and because of changing literary fashions.
She led one of the first clinics to specifically treat the symptoms, at University College Hospital in London.
''None of the rest of us have found progesterone as helpful as the data Dr. Dalton presented, but she really was quite influential in the modern understanding of what happens to women premenstrually,'' said Dr. Diana Dell, an OB-GYN and psychiatrist at the Duke University Medical Center.
In the late 1950's and early 1960's, Ms. Radi studied pottery at the Byam Shaw School of Art in London before moving to Beirut and teaching for a short period at the American University there.
Dr. Marton earned a master's degree in history and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Debrecen.
Ms. Adair held a bachelor's degree from Mount Holyoke College and a master's from Radcliffe and was a professor at California Polytechnic University in Pomona for many years.
In 1936, she began her graduate work at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts, which ran the excavation on Samothrace.
Bernice Ruth Rubens was born in Cardiff, Wales, on July 26, 1928, and studied English literature at Cardiff University, graduating in 1948 and then teaching in Birmingham, England.
In 1988 they established the Meyerhoff Scholar Program at the University of Maryland Baltimore campus, which has become a leading science-education initiative for African-Americans.
''It's not unlike the Leda and the swan myth,'' said Terry Matheson, a professor of English at the University of Saskatchewan and the author of ''Alien Abductions: Creating a Modern Phenomenon'' (Prometheus, 1998).
''
        Mrs. Hill was born Eunice Elizabeth Barrett on June 28, 1919, in Newton, N.H. A graduate of the University of New Hampshire, she was a social worker for many years.
By the mid-1970's, its finances were precarious, said Samuel Walker, a professor of criminal justice at the University of Nebraska, Omaha, and the author of ''In Defense of American Liberties: A History of the ACLU.
She received a bachelor's degree in history from Manhattanville College in 1962 and a master's degree in mathematics from the University of Detroit in 1968.
However, Orie Endo, a language professor at Bunkyo University in Tokyo and a leading scholar of the writing system, said in an e-mail message that at least two other women knew and still used some Nushu.
Laura Miller, a professor of linguistic anthropology at Loyola University in Chicago, said in an e-mail message that she had heard reports that other anthropologists working in China had found other women who continued to use Nushu.
''What started as a simple way to express themselves became a chronicle of their private anguish,'' Zhao Liming, a Nushu specialist at Qinghua University in Beijing, said in an interview with The South China Post.
Born in Milwaukee, Ms. Schwei received her degree in theater from New York University.
She graduated from the University of Virginia and soon after went to New York to make her stage debut as Curley's wife in ''Of Mice and Men'' at the New School.
She graduated from Cornell University in 1946.
In her 1997 memoir, ''Limelight: A Greenwich Village Photography Gallery and Coffeehouse in the 50's'' (University of New Mexico Press), Ms. Gee recalled with wry humor and unsentimental directness her struggles with freeloading drug addicts, the lack of adequate help, the threat of bankruptcy as well as brutish union officials.
In her 1997 memoir, ''Limelight: A Greenwich Village Photography Gallery and Coffeehouse in the 50's'' (University of New Mexico Press), Ms. Gee recalled with wry humor and unsentimental directness her struggles with freeloading drug addicts, the lack of adequate help, the threat of bankruptcy as well as brutish union officials.
She finished high school in three years and attended the University of Pennsylvania, from which she received a bachelor's degree in English literature.
She later received a master's degree in comparative religion from Norwich University, in Northfield, Vt. From 1978 to 1987 she and her husband lived in Saudi Arabia.
''The whole issue had scar tissue growing over it, but it had never really healed,'' Mr. Schell, the dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at the University of California, Berkeley, and a longtime observer of China, said in a telephone interview.
''
        Iris Shun-Ru Chang was born on March 28, 1968, in Princeton, N.J. She grew up in Champaign-Urbana, Ill., where her father, a physicist, and her mother, a microbiologist, taught at the University of Illinois.
After working briefly as a reporter for The Associated Press and The Chicago Tribune, she earned a master's degree from the writing program of Johns Hopkins University in 1991.
Dr. Ferrer, who spent four decades at Columbia University, grew up as a New York society debutante, blossoming into an internationally recognized researcher and clinician.
Dr. Myron L. Weisfeldt, chairman of the department of medicine at Johns Hopkins University, said that Dr. Ferrer was ''a leader in electrocardiography at a time when it was the only test we had to judge the heart.
She practiced briefly at New York University, then returned to Columbia in 1946 and was named an assistant professor there five years later.
She received a master's degree in education from Columbia in 1936 and a doctorate in education from New York University in 1955.
She was an adjunct professor at Lehigh University from 1964 to 1979 and later taught at N.Y.U.
and Indiana University.
''She was really trying to find any possible kind of evidence that could converge to give us the overall history of these peoples,'' said Regna Darnell, an anthropologist at the University of Western Ontario and a former student of Dr. de Laguna's.
In 1970 Dame Alicia became a distinguished lecturer on ballet at the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music, the home school of the Cincinnati Ballet.
Ms. Bender was born in Seaford, Del., earned a bachelor of fine arts from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1973 and moved to New York in 1978.
After graduating from high school, Ms. Sontag spent a semester at the University of California, Berkeley, before transferring to the University of Chicago, from which she received a bachelor's degree in 1951.
After graduating from high school, Ms. Sontag spent a semester at the University of California, Berkeley, before transferring to the University of Chicago, from which she received a bachelor's degree in 1951.
''
        Mr. Henry, editor of the magazine Verse and director of the creative writing program at the University of Georgia, mentioned the rare incendiary moments in her work but added that, ''Her poetry is primarily, and literally, civil, seeking to uphold the accepted foundations of civilization -- marriage and friendship, love and sympathy -- while occasionally plumbing those foundations for cracks.
Mona Jane Van Duyn was born on May 9, 1921, in Waterloo, Iowa, and graduated from the University of Northern Iowa in 1942, when it was the Iowa State Teachers College.
She received a master's degree from the University of Iowa the next near and taught English there until 1946.
She also had an academic career, teaching at the University of Louisville, in Kentucky, and at Washington University in St. Louis, as well as at writing seminars and conferences.
She also had an academic career, teaching at the University of Louisville, in Kentucky, and at Washington University in St. Louis, as well as at writing seminars and conferences.
Born in Corvallis, Ore., Dr. Yocom taught dance at schools and universities in Oregon, Idaho and Utah after receiving her doctorate at New York University in 1951.
Her one-woman exhibitions included shows at Midtown Galleries in New York in 1983; at the Ben Shahn Galleries of William Paterson University in Wayne, N.J., in 2002; and at the Susan Teller Gallery in Lower Manhattan last year in honor of her 100th birthday.
She studied printmaking at several schools, including Ohio University, Ohio State and the Cleveland School of Art.
She had a strong early interest in art, but opted for the financial security of teaching, and in the 1940's moved to New York to study art education at Teachers College, Columbia University.
She had two career retrospectives, one at the Institute of Contemporary Art at the University of Pennsylvania in 1973, the other at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1992.
