She taught at schools in Oakland, Calif., from 1938 to 1942 and was an associate professor of zoology at the University of Washington from 1945 to 1976.
After graduate work at the University of Chicago and New York University, she opened Chicago's first commercial gallery of avant-garde art in 1936.
After graduate work at the University of Chicago and New York University, she opened Chicago's first commercial gallery of avant-garde art in 1936.
She taught dance at Catholic University in Washington, and created dances for the Martha's Vineyard Shaw Festival and the Empire State Music Festival.
She earned her master's degree and Ph.D. at Harvard University.
Other Gifts
        The Avnets also made gifts to the Institute of Molecular Biology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, the Joan and Lester Avnet Division of Laboratories at the North Shore University Hospital and the Joan and Lester Avnet Chair in Ethics at the Jewish Theological Seminary.
She was a member of the board of the Georgetown University Law Center.
Mrs. Cullman graduated from Horace Mann School in 1932, then attended Vassar College for two years and graduated from New York University in 1962.
Ms. Mathis was a graduate of Memphis State University.
She attended Radcliffe College, Barnard College and Oxford University.
Mrs. Moorman was also the editor of "The Journals of Dorothy Wordsworth" -- the poet's eloquent sister -- which first appeared in 1971 and is still in print in the United States from Oxford University Press.
She was educated at Berkhamsted School and at Somerville College at Oxford University.
Her first novel, "Fig Leaves," was published shortly after she graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1919.
She earned a Ph.D. from Yale University, writing her dissertation on John Vanderlind, a 19th-century American painter.
In the 1940's and early 50's, Mrs. Svendsen taught art history at Duke University, Goucher College and American University.
In the 1940's and early 50's, Mrs. Svendsen taught art history at Duke University, Goucher College and American University.
After graduating from the University of Chicago, she studied acting.

        Edith Weisbuch, a proponent of progressive education and benefactor of Brandeis University, died on Jan. 29 at her home in Kings Point, L.I.
A graduate of Smith College, Mrs. Weisbuch worked for the creation of a department of child study at Tufts University.
In later years she organized a Long Island chapter of the Brandeis Women's Committee, which provided support for the university.
After graduating from St. John's University Law School in 1932, Mrs. Justin was the chief counsel for the Bronx Legal Aid Society, an agent for the city's Investigation Division, a Civil Service examiner, a lawyer for the City Rent Commission and a referee in Small Claims Court.
She was one of nine children and studied teaching at the University of Minnesota until lack of money forced her to leave.
Mrs. Gilpatric, a graduate of Syracuse University, was the widow of Arthur Kudner, whose advertising agency bore his name.
Ms. Keller was a teacher and lecturer at the University of Rhode Island, the San Francisco Art Institute and other institutions.
The daughter of a journalist, Miss Lane studied at St. Hugh's College of Oxford University, worked as a reporter for some years and went on to become a critic as well as an author.
For instance, the foundation's prize jury, whose longtime chairman is the heart surgeon Dr. Michael E. DeBakey, chose two winners of 1985 Albert Lasker Medical Research and Public Service awards -- Dr. Michael S. Brown and Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein of the University of Texas, for their studies of cholesterol chemistry in relation to the clogging of coronary arteries.
"
        Over the years, Mrs. Lasker also served on the boards of trustees or directors of a number of organizations and institutions, including the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the Museum of Modern Art, the Norton Simon Museum, New York University and Braniff Airways.
The cause was cardiac arrest, reported the City University of New York.
A native of Brooklyn, she graduated form the University of Virginia and earned a master's degree at Bank Street College of Education in 1959.
She joined the City College faculty in 1967 after doing research at the University of London.
"
        Miss Shore, whose original name was Frances Rose Shore, was born on March 1, 1917, in Winchester, Tenn. She graduated from Vanderbilt University, where she majored in sociology.
She then studied geology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and at the University of Chicago, and in 1920 earned a master's degree in the subject, specializing in petroleum geology, at Columbia University.
She then studied geology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and at the University of Chicago, and in 1920 earned a master's degree in the subject, specializing in petroleum geology, at Columbia University.
Her detailed catalogues of such 16th-century French and Italian books at Harvard University's Houghton Library are standard reference works in the field.
She graduated summa cum laude and received a certificate at the Shakespeare Institute of the University of Birmingham, England, as well as a master's degree at the Columbia University School of Library Service.
She graduated summa cum laude and received a certificate at the Shakespeare Institute of the University of Birmingham, England, as well as a master's degree at the Columbia University School of Library Service.
In her dissertation, written while she was a student at New York University's School of Education, Mrs. Saunders found that the city's elementary school principals performed an average of 446 different duties as part of their jobs.
A native of Brooklyn, she graduated from St. Catherine's Hospital School of Nursing in Brooklyn and earned degrees at St. John's University, New York University and Columbia University Teachers College, where she received a doctorate in education.
A native of Brooklyn, she graduated from St. Catherine's Hospital School of Nursing in Brooklyn and earned degrees at St. John's University, New York University and Columbia University Teachers College, where she received a doctorate in education.
A native of Brooklyn, she graduated from St. Catherine's Hospital School of Nursing in Brooklyn and earned degrees at St. John's University, New York University and Columbia University Teachers College, where she received a doctorate in education.
A graduate of Texas Women's University, she became active in Louisiana Republican politics and was a delegate to the Republican National Conventions in 1968 and 1976.
Dr. Hunter had a series of strokes, said the Graduate School of Education at the University of California at Los Angeles, where she was an adjunct professor.
Seeds University Elementary School, the laboratory school of U.C.L.A.
She led schools in different sections of Los Angeles, including Watts and Bel Air, before becoming principal at university elementary.
Writing about "The Language of the Goddess," Gerda Lerner, a historian at the University of Wisconsin, said that although Dr. Gimbutas's theory could never be proved, it could "challenge, inspire and fascinate" simply by providing an imaginative alternative to male-centered explanations.
A native of Vilnius, Lithuania, she received degrees from Vilnius University and a doctorate in archeology in 1946 from Tubingen University in Germany.
A native of Vilnius, Lithuania, she received degrees from Vilnius University and a doctorate in archeology in 1946 from Tubingen University in Germany.
She immigrated to the United States in 1949, conducted post-graduate research at Harvard University and in 1955 was elected research fellow of the Peabody Musuem at Harvard.
In 1942 she became an instructor at Boston University's College of Practical Arts and Letters, where she developed a program for training medical secretaries.
She held a doctorate in applied physics from Stanford University.

        Dr. Martha E. Rogers, a nursing administrator at New York University for 20 years who helped establish nursing as a profession with responsibilities apart from traditional medical care, died on Sunday at her home in Phoenix.
Dr. Rogers was a strong advocate of rebuilding nursing education programs by replacing the hospital training of nurses, where she received her early training, with university studies, which she was later to head at New York University from 1954 to 1975.
Dr. Rogers was a strong advocate of rebuilding nursing education programs by replacing the hospital training of nurses, where she received her early training, with university studies, which she was later to head at New York University from 1954 to 1975.
After taking science courses from 1931 to 1933 at the University of Tennessee, Dr. Rogers, who was born in Dallas, received a nursing diploma from the Knoxville General Hospital School of Nursing in Tennessee in 1936.
In 1945 she received a master's degree in nursing supervision from Teachers College of Columbia University and in 1952 she received a master's of public health and two years later a doctor of science, both from Johns Hopkins University.
In 1945 she received a master's degree in nursing supervision from Teachers College of Columbia University and in 1952 she received a master's of public health and two years later a doctor of science, both from Johns Hopkins University.
A native of Keyport, N.J., she graduated from Syracuse University Law School and was admitted to the New York Bar in 1923.
She graduated from Bryn Mawr College and in 1942 received a doctorate in sociology from Yale University.
She graduated from the University of Michigan and studied Russian as a graduate student at the University of Chicago and Columbia University.
She graduated from the University of Michigan and studied Russian as a graduate student at the University of Chicago and Columbia University.
She graduated from the University of Michigan and studied Russian as a graduate student at the University of Chicago and Columbia University.
Mrs. Fulcher, a native of Richmond, Me., was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Boston University.
She started working as a high school Latin and English teacher in Massachusetts, and came to New York as an instructor at New York University.

        Dr. Edith Porada, a Columbia University art historian and archeologist, died on Thursday in Honolulu, where she was staying with her sister.
Columbia University established an Edith Porada professorship of ancient Near Eastern art history and archeology in 1983 with a $1 million gift from an anonymous donor.
A native of Vienna, Dr. Porada received a doctorate at the University of Vienna in 1935 and arrived in this country three years later.
She won a scholarship to University College at the University of Toronto, where she contributed stories to the school's literary magazine.
She won a scholarship to University College at the University of Toronto, where she contributed stories to the school's literary magazine.

        Dorothy Flagg Leet, who directed the forerunner of the Reid Hall campus of Columbia University in Paris for over 30 years, died on Thursday at Meadow Lakes nursing home in Heightstown, N.J. She was 99.
In 1924 Miss Leet became the second director of what was then the American University Women's Club in Paris, an 18th-century house at 4 Rue de Chevreuse in Montparnasse.
Miss Leet also served from 1953 to 1956 as president of the International Federation of University Women.
Dr. Clarenbach, known as Kay, was professor emeritus of political science at the University of Wisconsin, where she earned her bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in that subject.
She taught in Indiana, New York and Michigan before returning to Madison to teach at the University of Wisconsin and Edgewood College.
A native of Sparta, Wis., she worked for many years on the university's program of continuing education for women.
In the 1940's she lived in Hamilton, N.Y., where her husband, Edward C. Rowe, was a lawyer at Colgate University.
"
        She was born Annemarie Phiebig in Berlin and earned her Doctor of Medicine degree from the University of Basel, Switzerland, in 1934.
Dr. Weil went on to be a junior psychiatrist on the staff of Bellevue Hospital, a senior psychiatrist at the Child Development Center and a member of the faculty of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research.

        Deane W. Lord, a public relations official at Harvard University for 35 years, died on Tuesday at Youville Hospital in Cambridge, Mass.
The cause was cancer, said a university spokesman.

        Peggy D. Pinn, an educator at Howard University and the founder of a television and film training program for minority students, died on April 6 at Shady Grove Hospital in Rockville, Md.
From 1972 until her retirement in 1984, she lectured in the department of film and television at Howard, and served as the director of the university's department of continuing education and of its community-service programs.
She was a graduate of the University of Rochester and received a law degree from Yeshiva University.
She was a graduate of the University of Rochester and received a law degree from Yeshiva University.
"
        Ms. Herrington, a Wisconsin native, graduated from the University of Wisconsin.
A native of Chicago, Ms. Ichiyasu was a graduate of Columbia University and studied design at Pratt Institute.

        Sylvia L. Milberg, associate director of development for Pace University in New York, died on Tuesday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. Mrs. Milberg, who lived in Westport, Conn., was 66.

        Dr. Barbara Ann Liskin, a specialist in psychiatry for adolescents and young adults who was long associated with Columbia University, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Until last fall, Dr. Liskin was director of Mental Health Services at Barnard College, an assistant professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, and an assistant attending physician at Presbyterian Hospital.
She was a graduate of Pace University Law School, where she was editor in chief of the Environmental Law Review.
She earned undergraduate and doctoral degrees at the University of Philadelphia, where her father, the biochemist Dr. George W. Raiziss, was a professor.
She also studied at Columbia University and published her first collection of poems, "Through a Glass Darkly," as a student at the Sorbonne.
Her first book of criticism, "Metaphysical Passion: Seven Modern American Poets and the 17th-Century Tradition," was published in 1952 by the University of Philadelphia and reissued by Greenwood Press in 1970.
She was a graduate of the State University of New York at Geneseo and received a master's degree in psychology from Hofstra University.
She was a graduate of the State University of New York at Geneseo and received a master's degree in psychology from Hofstra University.
She briefly attended Columbia University.
She was a past president and longtime member of the board of the Delaware Art Museum and a trustee of the Friends of American Art at Yale University.
She received a master's degree from the University of Virginia in 1968 and, in 1971, a doctorate in law from Harvard University.
She received a master's degree from the University of Virginia in 1968 and, in 1971, a doctorate in law from Harvard University.
A native of Berlin, she received a doctorate at the University of Frankfurt and joined a resistance group shortly after the Nazis came to power in Germany in 1933.
Dr. Grunwald worked as a file clerk but was able to obtain a master's degree at the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work with the help of her employer.
She loved Paris, and when the year was up she decided not to return to Vassar to finish her bachelor's degree but to transfer to George Washington University in Washington.
She received a bachelor's degree from George Washington University in 1951.
She was a graduate of the College of St. Rose and received a master's degree in business administration from Xavier University in Cincinnati.
At her death, she was an adjunct professor at the Pace University School of Law.
She was a graduate of Smith College and received a doctorate in psychology from Columbia University Teachers College.
Ms. Cooper was a graduate of Ohio State University and the Massachusetts College of Art.
She studied speech, acting and journalism at Northwestern University, which proclaimed her "Alumna of the Year" in 1992.
A native of Manhattan, Ms. Gans was a graduate of the University of California, Berkeley, and held a master's in psychology from Columbia University.
A native of Manhattan, Ms. Gans was a graduate of the University of California, Berkeley, and held a master's in psychology from Columbia University.
At her death she was a professor of photography at Pace University.
She graduated from Radcliffe in 1959 and received a doctorate in medieval history from Harvard University in 1970.
Lois Goldstein Forer was born in Chicago and graduated from Northwestern University in 1935.
She was privately educated at home and then attended Central High School in Minneapolis and the University of Minnesota.
Mrs. Smith graduated from Fordham University College at Lincoln Center and Fordham's Graduate School of Social Service.
The university made her an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters in 1984 for showing that "even one citizen can make a difference.
Her doctorate in education was granted by Rutgers University in 1976.
The space age entered her career when she was engaged as a consultant by a center at the University of Southern California that evaluated products developed for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

        Mary Anne Devanna, an associate dean at the Columbia University Business School, died on Saturday at her home in Ardsley, N.Y. She was 55.
Dr. Devanna was born in Jersey City and received a bachelor's degree from St. John's University in 1960 and a master's degree in business administration from the Columbia Business School in 1974.
She was born in Lancaster, Pa., and received a bachelor's degree from Cornell University and a master's degree in French literature from New York University.
She was born in Lancaster, Pa., and received a bachelor's degree from Cornell University and a master's degree in French literature from New York University.
A scholarship fund has been established in Ms. Pollack's name at Cornell University.
      

        Phyllis J. Shorenstein, a founder of the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco, died on Wednesday at the University of California at San Francisco Medical Center.
With her family, Mrs. Shorenstein established the Joan Shorenstein Barone Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard University.
She also taught at New York University and the High School for the Performing Arts.
After receiving a bachelor's degree from Mount Holyoke in South Hadley, Mass., she taught school in India, then returned to the United States and received a master's degree at Columbia University Teachers College.
Dr. Gordon was a professor of economics at the University of California at Berkeley, where she had served as associate director of the Institute of Industrial Relations from 1954 until 1969.
Another, "Social Security Policies in Industrial Countries: An International Perspective" (Cambridge University Press, 1989) remains in print.
A native of Wabasha, Minn., she graduated from Bryn Mawr College and received her Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1935.
She is survived by her sons, Robert J., of Evanston, Ill., an economics professor at Northwestern University, and David M., of Manhattan, a professor of economics at the New School for Social Research.
She returned to the United States in 1917 and studied economics and psychology at the University of Chicago and New York University.
She returned to the United States in 1917 and studied economics and psychology at the University of Chicago and New York University.
Dr. Natchez received a doctorate in education from New York University and also studied psychology as a post-doctoral fellow at Adelphi University.
Dr. Natchez received a doctorate in education from New York University and also studied psychology as a post-doctoral fellow at Adelphi University.
She graduated from Barat College in Lake Forest, Ill., and was a Fulbright Scholar at the University of Lille in 1957.
She also was a professor of music and head of the voice department at the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University, where she also directed the Summer Opera Workshop.

        Merriam Modell, a writer of short stories and suspense novels, died on July 1 at Presbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh.

        Kate Hitschman Klein, who for 25 years helped guide New Yorkers with problems through the labyrinth of municipal government at City Hall, died on Friday at the New York University Medical Center.
"
        Born in Milton, Tenn., she was a legal secretary when she started studying law at Middle Tennessee State University.
She transferred to Vanderbilt University, where she earned bachelor's and law degrees.
She also attended the Ruskin School of Drawing and studied fine arts at Oxford University.

        Zelma Watson George, a sociologist, musicologist and performer who broke a color barrier on Broadway in 1950, died on Sunday at University Hospitals in Cleveland.
Dr. George was born in Hearne, Tex., and graduated from the University of Chicago.
She studied voice at the American Conservatory of Music in Chicago and pipe organ at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. She briefly worked as a social worker in Evanston and spent seven years as a probation officer in Chicago.
From 1932 to 1937, she was the dean of women at Tennessee State University in Nashville.
She returned to school to earn master's and doctoral degrees in sociology at New York University.
" It was a compendium of 12,163 titles; she donated the manuscript to Howard University.
She studied at the Art Students League and earned a bachelor's degree in painting from Washington University in St. Louis in 1951.

        Mary Anna Meyer, who took part in civic affairs and charitable causes for many years, died on Sunday in North Shore University Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I.
Professor Hodgkin was the chancellor of Bristol University from 1970 until her retirement in 1988, and also taught at Oxford.
She held other titles at Oxford in earlier decades, and was a fellow of that university's Somerville College from 1936 to 1977.
She earned bachelor's degrees in English and music at Western Reserve University (now Case Western Reserve) and moved to New York to become an opera singer.

        Dr. Enid R. Peschel, a medical educator and researcher at Yale University, died on Monday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
She graduated from Brown University and received a doctorate in French history from Harvard University.
She graduated from Brown University and received a doctorate in French history from Harvard University.

        Helen F. Cserr, a professor of physiology at Brown University in Providence, R.I., whose research focused on the anatomy and mechanism of the human brain, died on Aug. 11 at her home in North Dighton, Mass.
She died of a brain tumor, said her daughter, Ruth, of Princeton, N.J.
        Dr. Cserr joined the Brown faculty in 1970 after serving as a researcher at Harvard University, where she received a Ph.D. in physiology.
Born in Brooklyn, Mrs. McDonald graduated from Hunter College and Columbia University Teachers College.
In 1970, she received a master's degree from Teachers College at Columbia University.
Dr. Langer, who had a Ph.D. in sociology from New York University, was on the boards of the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, in Washington, and the National Coalition Against Censorship.
Over the years, she taught at City College, New York University, the Hunter College School of Social Work and elsewhere.

        Rose Laub Coser, a sociologist and professor emeritus at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, died on Sunday at her summer home in Wellfleet, Mass.
She started studying philosophy at the New School for Social Research but switched to sociology at Columbia University, where she earned her Ph.D. under the supervision of Robert K. Merton.
In 1959 she began teaching at the Harvard University Medical School as an assistant professor of sociology in the department of psychiatry, and later became an associate professor.
She also taught at Northeastern University in Boston.
An English translation of one of her most widely read novels, "Memoirs of Leticia Valle," won praise when it was published earlier this year by the University of Nebraska Press in a translation by Carol Maier, a professor of Spanish at Kent State University.
An English translation of one of her most widely read novels, "Memoirs of Leticia Valle," won praise when it was published earlier this year by the University of Nebraska Press in a translation by Carol Maier, a professor of Spanish at Kent State University.
Susan Kirkpatrick, a professor of Spanish at the University of California at San Diego, wrote, in the preface to her translation of Miss Chacel's novel "The Maravillas District," which was published in 1992 by the University of Nebraska Press: "Chacel's writing is dense and labyrinthine, but at the same time it is open-ended and dynamic, shaping a narrative design that ends with a query instead of a conclusion.
Susan Kirkpatrick, a professor of Spanish at the University of California at San Diego, wrote, in the preface to her translation of Miss Chacel's novel "The Maravillas District," which was published in 1992 by the University of Nebraska Press: "Chacel's writing is dense and labyrinthine, but at the same time it is open-ended and dynamic, shaping a narrative design that ends with a query instead of a conclusion.
Correction:  August 4, 1994, Thursday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Rosa Chacel, a Spanish novelist, misidentified the author of the English translation of her book "The Maravillas District," published in 1992 by the University of Nebraska Press.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Claire Meadow, of Larchmont, N.Y.
        A graduate of Hunter College, Mrs. Goldstein received a master's degree in education from New York University.

        Shirley M. Ehrenkranz, for nearly two decades the dean of New York University's School of Social Work, died yesterday at her home in South Orange, N.J. She was 73.
The cause was cancer, said a university spokeswoman.
In recognition of her contributions, New York University had announced that the school would be renamed the Shirley M. Ehrenkranz School of Social Work.
Jay Oliva, president of the university, said yesterday that there would be a renaming ceremony on Sept. 19.
Was a Former Caseworker
        Dr. Ehrenkranz received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College, master's degrees in English from Temple University, in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr College and in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, and a doctorate in social welfare from Columbia University.
Was a Former Caseworker
        Dr. Ehrenkranz received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College, master's degrees in English from Temple University, in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr College and in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, and a doctorate in social welfare from Columbia University.
Was a Former Caseworker
        Dr. Ehrenkranz received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College, master's degrees in English from Temple University, in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr College and in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, and a doctorate in social welfare from Columbia University.
Before joining New York University, she served as a field instructor at the Rutgers University Graduate School of Social Work and a research assistant at the Columbia University School of Social Work.
Before joining New York University, she served as a field instructor at the Rutgers University Graduate School of Social Work and a research assistant at the Columbia University School of Social Work.
Before joining New York University, she served as a field instructor at the Rutgers University Graduate School of Social Work and a research assistant at the Columbia University School of Social Work.
Correction:  August 27, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Shirley M. Ehrenkranz, dean of New York University's School of Social Work, omitted a survivor.
Miss Potts, who was from Zanesville, Ohio, received a bachelor's degree in political science from Smith College and, in 1982, a master's degree in Russian studies from the University of Michigan.
A native of Grand Rapids, Miss Zierleyn graduated from Calvin College and Michigan State University and began her career teaching English at various schools in Michigan and Ohio.
She received her bachelor's, master's and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Iowa.
A native of Bad Kreuznach, Germany, Mrs. Carliner migrated to the United States as a teen-ager and graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics in 1942 from George Washington University.
She studied law at the University of Chicago and at Oxford and Columbia Universities.
She graduated from Wells College in Aurora, N.Y., and received a master's degree in city and regional planning from Rutgers University.
Dr. Strahl was born in New York City, received her medical degree from Long Island College of Medicine in 1943 and completed her training in psychoanalysis at Columbia University in 1948.
"
        Born in Scottdale, Pa., Mrs. Phillips graduated from Geneseo State College and began to work with the mentally retarded in Hornall, N.Y. She also earned a bachelor's degree in special education and a master's degree in educational and vocational guidance at New York University.
Over the years she taught at the University of Rochester, Syracuse University, and Bar-Ilan University in Israel.
Over the years she taught at the University of Rochester, Syracuse University, and Bar-Ilan University in Israel.
Over the years she taught at the University of Rochester, Syracuse University, and Bar-Ilan University in Israel.
An alumna of Brooklyn College, Mrs. Schreiber attended graduate school at Columbia University and was a midcareer fellow at the Woodrow Wilson School of Princeton University.
An alumna of Brooklyn College, Mrs. Schreiber attended graduate school at Columbia University and was a midcareer fellow at the Woodrow Wilson School of Princeton University.

        Barbara Fassbinder, one of the first health care professionals to be infected with the AIDS virus while on the job, died on Tuesday at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics in Iowa City.
"
        Mrs. Klapthor was born in Henderson, Ky., reared in Charles County and graduated from the University of Maryland.
from New York University in 1942 and a master's degree in Hebrew Studies from New York University in 1971.
from New York University in 1942 and a master's degree in Hebrew Studies from New York University in 1971.
She was born in Manhattan and grew up in Hartsdale, N.Y. She graduated from Brown University in 1976 and earned a master's degree in architecture from Princeton University.
She was born in Manhattan and grew up in Hartsdale, N.Y. She graduated from Brown University in 1976 and earned a master's degree in architecture from Princeton University.
During the 1991-92 school year, she was a Loeb Fellow at Harvard University.
After earning a bachelor's degree with honors in English at Grinnell College in Grinnell, Iowa, in 1941 she studied at Columbia University and the New School for Social Research.
She worked as a secretary and a writer at Oxford University Press from 1943 to 1951 and as reference librarian at the National Audubon Society from 1952 to 1959.
She also published an essay collection, "Predecessors, et Cetera" (1991, University of Michigan Press) and edited "The Essential Donne" (1988, Ecco Press).
She earned a master's degree in theology and a doctorate in religious studies at Marquette University in Milwaukee.
She is survived by her husband, Robert A., and two daughters, Amanda, of Manhattan and Susan, a student at the University of Colorado at Boulder.
      
She was awarded a master's degree from Columbia University in 1929 and a Ph.
D. from New York University in 1946.
She was a past treasurer of the Professional Staff Congress of the City University of New York.
Ms. Freidus was a member of the adjunct faculty at Teachers College at Columbia University from the mid-1950's to 1970, teaching a popular special-education class, and she also taught at New York University.
Ms. Freidus was a member of the adjunct faculty at Teachers College at Columbia University from the mid-1950's to 1970, teaching a popular special-education class, and she also taught at New York University.
Ms. Freidus received bachelor's and master's degrees in early childhood education from New York University.
      
She soon joined the celebrated University Players on Cape Cod, trading lines with such other young performers as Henry Fonda, James Stewart, Margaret Sullavan and Joshua Logan.
She went to work in Philadelphia and took evening courses in merchandising and business administration at the University of Pennsylvania.
Born in Omaha, she received her undergraduate and master's degrees from the University of Nebraska.
It was not until 1978 that she completed her work for a doctorate in anthropology at New York University.
"
        Miss Primus continued to perform until 1980, after which she was the director of the Cora P. Maloney College, a black studies school at the State University of New York at Buffalo, and was Five-College Professor of Ethnic Studies at schools in Massachusetts in the 1980's.
In the spring of 1993 she led the organization's defense of Lani Guinier, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania who was nominated by President Clinton to head the Justice Department's civil rights division.

        Ruth Blumka, a prominent New York dealer in medieval and Renaissance art and a donor of artworks to museums around the country, died on Monday at New York University Hospital.
"
        Lillian Irene Hayman was born in Maryland and received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Wilberforce University in Ohio.
Her talent intrigued Ed Temple, the renowned coach at Tennessee State University in Nashville, and at his invitation she attended his summer track camps.
At DePauw University in Indiana, she coached briefly and recruited minority-group students.
She had suffered a long illness, said the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where she had been professor emeritus of health education since 1966.
She founded the university's health education department and was its first chairman.
While at Chapel Hill, she was also director of health education for 15 years at North Carolina College at Durham, now North Carolina Central University.
She was born in Baton Rouge, La., and graduated from the University of Tennessee.
She earned a master's degree at Columbia University, a master's at Tennessee and a doctorate in public health at Yale University in 1936.
She earned a master's degree at Columbia University, a master's at Tennessee and a doctorate in public health at Yale University in 1936.
Early in her career, she worked as a health-education specialist and consultant at the University of Tennessee and the Tennessee State Health Department.
She attended Smith College and earned bachelor's and master's degrees from Boston University.
She received a medical degree from the University of London's School of Medicine for Women and after World War II she joined the National Health Service.
Mrs. Lewis was co-counsel; Prof. Norman Dorsen of New York University Law School presented oral arguments on behalf of the American Civil Liberties Union.
      
"Improvisations for the Theater," her best-known book (published by Northwestern University Press) remains a standard theatrical text.
A month ago, the Columbia University School of Social Work established a Helen Rehr and Ruth Fizdale Professorship of Health and Mental Health.
Miss Fizdale graduated from the University of Chicago.
She received a master's at the Smith College School of Social Work and an advanced-study certificate from the University of Pennsylvania.
Mrs. Rathgeb was born in Terre Haute, Ind., and earned a bachelor's degree in theater and a master's degree in English at Indiana State University.
She did post-graduate work at Catholic University of America, taught in the Chicago public schools and helped to organize theaters in Terre Haute.
from Columbia University Teachers College and from New York University.
from Columbia University Teachers College and from New York University.
Begun as a two-year liberal arts college, it became part of the University of Hartford system in 1991.

        Jeanne Sumner Newman, a public health specialist who worked to improve medical services in developing countries, died on Oct. 24 at West Virginia University Hospitals in Morgantown, W.Va. She was 65 and lived in Baltimore.
She received a doctorate in medieval English literature from Yale University in 1929.
      

        Dr. Judith Krieger Gardner, a child psychologist, teacher and researcher at Brandeis University, died of an aneurysm on Saturday at the Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem.
She also taught a course on the history of child rearing at Harvard University and lectured at Boston University.
She also taught a course on the history of child rearing at Harvard University and lectured at Boston University.
Mrs. Kramer was also involved in various educational projects, serving as a member of the board of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and as vice president of the American Friends of the Hebrew University, which bestowed on her the Scopus Award and an honorary doctorate of philosophy in 1984.
Mrs. Kramer was also involved in various educational projects, serving as a member of the board of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and as vice president of the American Friends of the Hebrew University, which bestowed on her the Scopus Award and an honorary doctorate of philosophy in 1984.
A member of Long Island University's board, Mrs. Kramer was a founder of the Benjamin and Elizabeth Abrams Communication Center at the university.
A member of Long Island University's board, Mrs. Kramer was a founder of the Benjamin and Elizabeth Abrams Communication Center at the university.
She received a doctorate in law at Southern Methodist University and did postgraduate studies at the Hoover Institute of Stanford University before being appointed an associate professor of history at Augustana College in Rockville, Ill. She started as a full professor at Sarah Lawrence in 1947.
She received a doctorate in law at Southern Methodist University and did postgraduate studies at the Hoover Institute of Stanford University before being appointed an associate professor of history at Augustana College in Rockville, Ill. She started as a full professor at Sarah Lawrence in 1947.
Miss Hickey was born in Kansas City, Mo., and earned a law degree from the University of Missouri in 1928.
Poses was among the first women to graduate from New York University's law school, her daughter said, and joined the New York bar in 1938, soon after it began admitting women, in 1937.
She graduated from Wheaton College in Norton, Mass., in 1918, and earned a master's degree in education at Harvard University in 1923.
"
        She was born in Vienna around the turn of the century and graduated from the University of Dresden with a degree in architecture.
"
        She arrived in the state in 1967 fresh from a course in poverty law at the University of Pennsylvania -- 57 years old and a white-haired mother of five grown children.
"
        She was born in Boston and graduated from Radcliffe College before earning advanced degrees at Columbia University Law School, Teachers College and Georgetown Law Center.
She worked for the American Association of University Women and in various legal positions in Washington before moving to Texas.
She was educated at Boston University.
The cause was heart failure, said the University of Pennsylvania, where Dr. Phillips became a professor emeritus in 1967.
Her ground-breaking book, "Essentials of Social Group Work Skill" (University of Pennsylvania, 1973), was used to train students in social work for many years.
Born in Jamestown, N.D., she earned a bachelor's degree at Oberlin College and a master's from Western Reserve University.
She taught at the University of Minnesota before joining the University of Pennsylvania, where she received a doctorate in sociology in 1956.
She taught at the University of Minnesota before joining the University of Pennsylvania, where she received a doctorate in sociology in 1956.
"
        Over the years, Mrs. Walsh worked inside many institutions and organizations, including the Institute of Rehabilitative Medicine of New York University Medical Center.
She graduated from Hofstra University and its law school, and was a partner in the firm of Mahon & Berger in Garden City, L.I.
She was educated at the University of Wisconsin and at Boston University and worked as a teacher and as a director at the Los Angeles Children's Museum.
She was educated at the University of Wisconsin and at Boston University and worked as a teacher and as a director at the Los Angeles Children's Museum.
She was educated at the University of Wisconsin and at Boston University and worked as a teacher and as a director at the Los Angeles Children's Museum.
She was educated at the University of Wisconsin and at Boston University and worked as a teacher and as a director at the Los Angeles Children's Museum.

        Aminda Badeau Wilkins, a retired welfare official and the widow of Roy Wilkins, longtime executive secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center.
Born in St. Louis, Mrs. Wilkins trained at the University of Chicago and started her career with a Chicago settlement house and doing case work in St. Louis.
At her death, Dr. Oppenheim was a professor of history at American University in Washington, where she had taught since 1975.
" And the Stanford University historian Peter Stansky called it "a fascinating study" that "tells us much about the age itself, its preoccupations and obsessions.
"
        Courses that Professor Oppenheim taught at American University included "Men and Women in Victorian Culture: Gender Roles and Stereotypes" and "Selected Topics on the Condition of Women in Victorian England.
" She was a visiting professor at Princeton University in 1979 and Bryn Mawr College in 1986, and a Guggenheim Fellow in 1988.
She received a Ph.D. in history from Columbia University in 1975.
