The cause was a heart attack, said officials at the University of Pittsburgh, where Professor Rubin had taught for 21 years before retiring in 1981.
Together, they also established master's and doctoral programs in nursing at the University of Pittsburgh.
She taught at Yale and the University of Chicago before joining the University of Pittsburgh in 1960.
She taught at Yale and the University of Chicago before joining the University of Pittsburgh in 1960.
After earning a degree in art education from the University of Minnesota, she taught in the Detroit public schools and exhibited her watercolors of flowers, birds and city streets in group shows, mostly in and around Detroit.
Born in Lisbon, Iowa, she received undergraduate and master's degrees from the University of Iowa in 1927 and 1932.
She was born in the Bronx, graduated from Vassar College in 1938 and studied economics at Columbia University.
Dr. Andre-Schwartz was also an associate professor of medicine at Tufts University School of Medicine.
"
        Happy to be called "Mrs. Clague" by some friends and neighbors, Dr. Whipple, who grew up in New York City, did not change her name when she married Mr. Clague in 1923, after her graduation from the University of Wisconsin, where she had been a speed skater.
She attended Teachers College of Columbia University but left school to marry in 1925.
Years later, she resumed her studies and received a master's degree in art history from Columbia University when she was 63.
She headed the advisory council for the department of art and archeology at Columbia University.
She was also a member of the visiting committee of the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University and served on visiting committees at the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Her most recent book, "Thieves' World: The Threat of the New Global Network of Organized Crime" (1994, Simon & Schuster), was praised by Stephen Handelman, of the Harriman Institute of Advanced Soviet Studies at Columbia University, as making "a significant contribution to post-cold-war debate" by affirming "that the growing interdependence among nation-states and financial institutions has made it easier for crime syndicates to cooperate across national boundaries.
She graduated from Case Western University in 1932 and moved to Manhattan, where she was a copywriter.
Mrs. Horwitz graduated in 1932 from Flora Stone Mather College for Women, not from Case Western Reserve University.
The women's college later became part of a university that helped form Case Western Reserve University in 1967.
      
The women's college later became part of a university that helped form Case Western Reserve University in 1967.
      
in anthropology and art at Hunter College and also studied art at the University of California, Berkeley, and New York University.
in anthropology and art at Hunter College and also studied art at the University of California, Berkeley, and New York University.
Ms. Tabachnick is represented in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art and the University Art Museum, Berkeley.

        Mary Raffa, the mother of Matilda Cuomo, former First Lady of New York, died yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
She graduated from Tufts University in 1986 with a degree in computer science.
In 1991, she received an M.B.A. in corporate strategic planning from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
Ms. Rome was born in Norwich, Conn. She graduated from Brandeis University in 1966 and received a master's degree from the Harvard Graduate School of Education in 1968.

        Elizabeth Flower, professor emeritus of philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania and co-author of a standard history of philosophy, died on Monday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.

        Elizabeth Flower, professor emeritus of philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania and co-author of a standard history of philosophy, died on Monday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.
Flower, whose affiliation with the university dated from her student days, was the author with Murray G. Murphey of the two-volume "History of Philosophy in America" (Putnam, 1977).
She herself was honored in 1988 with a volume "Values and Value Theory in Twentieth Century America: Essays in Honor of Elizabeth Flower" (Temple University Press), edited by Professor Murphey and Ivar Berg.
"
        Born in Frankfurt, Mrs. Ries received a law degree from the University of Frankfurt and arrived in Forest Hills with her husband in the late 1930's.
She was a member of the faculty at the University of California at Los Angeles until 1993, and continued to perform until April 1994.
Reached yesterday at the University of Nevada in Reno, where he and his wife had worked as a team, her husband said the cause of death was a central nervous infection.
At the time of the Gardner announcement, Dr. Peter R. Marler of Rockefeller University termed their work "brilliant and exciting.
Among the skeptics is Dr. Herbert S. Terrace, a Columbia University psychologist, who has argued that his chimpanzee experiments have shown that an ape cannot, in any meaningful way, connect "words" into sentences.
Dr. Gardner, whose first name was sometimes written Beatrice,earned a bachelor's degree at Radcliffe College and a master's degree at Brown University.
She received a doctorate in zoology at Oxford University in England in 1959.
They married in 1961, moved to the University of Nevada in 1963, and in 1966 began trying to teach Washoe, a 10-month-old female ape, to use signals from Ameslan, the American Sign Language.
The daughter of Sidney Reinhardt and Alice Blum Reinhardt, she attended Washington University and the College of the Incarnate Word in San Antonio.
In 1964, at the age of 60, she obtained her bachelor's degree from New York University.
She also contributed to the "Oxford Garden Companion" and to books by her husband, Charles Alexander Jencks, a post-modernist architect and professor at the University of California at Los Angeles School of Architecture.
She was educated at Oxford University, where she studied Middle English, and at the Architectural Association in London.
Miss Church, whose full name was Sara Roberta Church, was born in Memphis and received a bachelor's degree and a master's degree from Northwestern University.
After studying at Northwestern University, she went with a friend to Denver, where she got a job and met her first husband, Hugh Tighe, who was later transferred to Pueblo.

        Dr. Berta Vogel Scharrer, a pioneering biomedical scientist and founding faculty member of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at Yeshiva University, died on Sunday at her home in the Bronx.
Harvard University, conferring an honorary doctorate on Dr. Scharrer in 1982, said her "research journeys into the world of insects have profoundly affected the study of human physiology.
Berta Vogel was born in Munich, Germany, and received a doctorate in biology from the University of Munich in 1930.
Born in Bridgeport, Conn., she graduated magna cum laude from Radcliffe College and earned her Ph.D. in education and psychology at the University of Michigan.
She taught at Tufts University before moving to Wheelock.
Born in Plum Coulee, Manitoba, she studied at Havergal Ladies' College in Winnipeg and the University of Manitoba before marrying Mr. Bronfman in 1922.
She graduated from Radcliffe College and, in 1927, from the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University.
That proved unnecessary when a family she worked for introduced her to Katherine Clark, a young Harvard graduate who came to Mobile in 1984 to teach English at the University of South Alabama and is now a professor of English at the University of New Orleans.
That proved unnecessary when a family she worked for introduced her to Katherine Clark, a young Harvard graduate who came to Mobile in 1984 to teach English at the University of South Alabama and is now a professor of English at the University of New Orleans.
A longtime professor of education at New York University, Miss Keliher cherished her unofficial title as the "grandmother of day care.
"
        In the 1930's, she conducted seminal research on childhood development with Arnold Gesell at Yale University.
Obtaining bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in three years at Teachers College at Columbia University, she joined Dr. Gesell in 1930.

        Joan L. Hafey, a retired vice president for the New York advertising agency Young & Rubicam who was active in public-service advertising campaigns, died July 24 at Tisch Hospital of New York University Medical Center.
She was the daughter-in-law of Michael I. Sovern, president emeritus of Columbia University.
Ms. Sovern graduated from Brandeis University.
She received a master's degree from Columbia's School of Library Service and an M.B.A. from New York University.
The victim of an eye condition that left her nearly blind in midlife, she recovered her sight in one of the first cornea transplants and became a founder of Recordings for the Blind and a sponsor of blind university graduates.
"
        A native of Bridgeport, Conn., she studied at the Hartford Art School, the New School for Social Research and the University of California at Los Angeles.
She was born in Manhattan, and graduated with degrees in English and anthropology from the University of Hawaii.
Besides her son, who was the Lieutenant Governor of Texas from 1973 to 1991 and was recently named chancellor of the University of Houston, and her daughter, Jessica Catto, of San Antonio, she is survived by a sister, Mrs. Loy Loving, of Weslaco, Tex., 8 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She graduated magna cum laude with a bachelor's degree in fine arts from Syracuse University in 1951 and earned a master's degree in psychology at Columbia University in 1952.
She graduated magna cum laude with a bachelor's degree in fine arts from Syracuse University in 1951 and earned a master's degree in psychology at Columbia University in 1952.
As a teen-ager from a modest home, Miss Chadwick honed her Alpine skills by skiing regularly at nearby Cannon Mountain, N.H.
        She received a bachelor's and master's degree in business from the now-defunct Staley College in Brookline, Mass., and later studied management at Santa Clara University in Santa Clara, Calif.
In 1985, Miss Chadwick opened the United States Olympic Education Center at Northern Michigan University in Marquette, Mich. Later that year, she also began supervising the $12 million modernization of the Lake Placid training center.
With her husband, Roy V. Titus, the former chairman of the Helena Rubinstein cosmetics empire, who died in 1989, Mrs. Titus supported endeavors like the film program at the Museum of Modern Art, biochemistry at Duke University and ophthalmological research at the Wilmer Institute at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
Her father was David May Sr., the founder of May Department Stores, who started his chain in Leadville, Colo. As a young woman, she hoped to study journalism at Columbia University but her father would not permit her to attend.
Ms. Hadley, an Iowa native, graduated from Drake University and received a master's degree from the University of Wisconsin.
Ms. Hadley, an Iowa native, graduated from Drake University and received a master's degree from the University of Wisconsin.
The next breakthrough came when Mrs. Wood, who was born in 1909 in Logan, Utah, returned to the University of Utah.
After performing in summer stock, she established a school for teen-age performers that was absorbed by the State University of New York at Purchase, where she taught a generation of young actors and playwrights, including Matt Dillon.
"She was a rarity," said Dominic Cheung, a poet and professor of East Asian languages at the University of Southern California.
C. T. Hsia, a retired professor of Chinese at Columbia University who once called Miss Chang "the most gifted Chinese writer to emerge in the 40's," compared her favorably yesterday with such widely acclaimed writers as Katherine Mansfield, Katherine Anne Porter, Eudora Welty and especially Flannery O'Connor and Franz Kafka.
William F. Weld of Massachusetts, died on Monday at North Shore University Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I.
Ms. Morris, who was born in San Francisco, graduated from the University of California at Berkeley.
She also received a master's degree from Columbia University's School of International Relations.

        Charlotte Appleton Kidder Ramsay, a philanthropist and wildlife conservationist, died on Saturday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington.
She graduated from Columbia University in 1923 and became the second black woman to work as a dentist in New York.
She served on advisory boards for Cornell University's Institute for Women and Work and for the National Organization for Women.
After graduating from the University of Illinois, she was in the first group of Waves commissioned by the Navy during World War II.
"
        Ask Ruth Simmons how she did it, how she made her way from Grapeland to the provost's job at Spelman College to vice provost at Princeton University to the presidency of Smith, and she seems startled by the question.
"
        After graduation from high school, she went to Dillard University, a historically black institution in New Orleans, where she majored in Romance languages.
Ms. Lillie, a professor of African studies at the University of Pittsburgh, said in a telephone interview: "She was brilliant.
She became an assistant professor of French, and later an assistant dean at the University of New Orleans.
Professor Kriegel had retired from academic work after teaching at the University of Paris-Nanterre from 1969 into the 1990's.
Her 1972 book, "The French Communists," was hailed in The New York Times Book review by an American historian of France, Robert O. Paxton of Columbia University, as "the most probing single work on the French Communist Party, and perhaps on any Western Communist party.
For all the family precedent, Miss Dorman, who received a bachelor's degree from Cornell University in 1931, intended an academic career.
But after she obtained a master's degree in history from Columbia University in 1933, she switched to the law when a post she had been promised as an instructor at Brooklyn College evaporated in Depression economics.
After graduating from Brooklyn College, she received her law degree from St. John's University and was admitted to the bar in 1937.
She was a native New Yorker, born in Brooklyn, and received a Ph.D. in marine biology from City University.
Two grants of $1 million each helped establish and finance the Neurosciences Institute and Neurosciences Research Foundation at Rockefeller University in New York.
An atrium garden at the university was named in her honor.
The workshops were also held at other venues, in Stockholm, Venice and at the University of California at Los Angeles and at San Francisco.
Dr. Martin Meyerson, a former president of the University of Pennsylvania who was chairman of the workshops for a decade, noted that she insured that participants ranged from Nobel laureates to junior scientists and that "she relished providing a bit of luxury to them, a good dinner, putting them up in pleasant places.
"
        Dr. Elaine Pagels, a professor of religion at Princeton University who was a longtime friend, said: "She had a remarkable mind, and had she been born in another generation, she might well have done something herself.
Mrs. Hazen and her husband also established the Gwynne Hazen Cherry Memorial Laboratory in Oncology and Hematology, in memory of their other daughter, at the Marion Davies Hospital, a unit of the University of California, Los Angeles, Medical Center.
Ms. Dearing was also a professor of design at Howard University.
Left alone with three children to raise, Ms. Graves's mother found work as a  clerk-typist at the University of the District of Columbia.
Her family also donated its wooded estate in Riverdale, the Bronx, to Columbia University.

        Ada Lois Sipuel Fisher, the black honors graduate who needed a backhanded assist from the Supreme Court in 1948 to win admission to the University of Oklahoma law school, died on Wednesday at her home in Oklahoma City.
She was 71  and had served for three years on the university's board of regents, the very body that had denied her admission on the basis of her race.
By the time Mrs. Fisher applied to the University of Oklahoma law school on  Jan. 14, 1946, the Supreme Court had long held that under the separate-but-equal doctrine, states that sponsored law schools for white students were required to  supply similar training for qualified black students.
The court did not specifically order her admission to the university law school, and when Oklahoma tried to satisfy the court by instantly creating a black law school exclusively for Mrs. Fisher, the court turned down her follow-up appeal in February 1948.
She  returned to the university to earn a master's degree in history in 1968, and she joined the faculty at Langston University.
She  returned to the university to earn a master's degree in history in 1968, and she joined the faculty at Langston University.

        Mary Wickes, a tart-tongued character actress whose long career on the stage  and in films extended from "The Man Who Came to Dinner" to the two "Sister Act"  movies, died on Sunday at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center.
After graduating from Washington University there, she began her theatrical career in 1935 at the Berkshire Playhouse in Stockbridge, Mass.
She received a bachelor's degree in economics from what is now Washburn University of Topeka in 1921.
She attended public schools and went to Columbia University for a few years, hoping to become a newspaper reporter.
Ms. Glass was born in Richmond Hill, Queens, graduated from Queens College and received a master's degree in English from New York University.
She was chairwoman of the string department at DePaul University in Chicago from 1968 to 1970.

        Ruth Wilmanns Lidz, a clinical professor of psychiatry at the Yale University School of Medicine, died on Monday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
She was born in Heidelberg, Germany, the daughter of Karl Wilmanns, a professor and director of Heidelberg University's psychiatry department.
During World War II, she was on the faculty of Johns Hopkins University before entering psychoanalytical practice in Baltimore and New Haven.
She graduated from the University of Utah, and also attended Radcliffe College in Boston.
She wrote her first poems when she was 6, joined the Authors League at 11, published her first poem at Indiana University when she was 19, won first prize in a literary  contest at Butler University when she was 20 and published her first book of poems, "Prismatic Ground," at 28, in 1937, a year after receiving a master's in  Elizabethan and Jacobean literature from the University of Chicago.
She wrote her first poems when she was 6, joined the Authors League at 11, published her first poem at Indiana University when she was 19, won first prize in a literary  contest at Butler University when she was 20 and published her first book of poems, "Prismatic Ground," at 28, in 1937, a year after receiving a master's in  Elizabethan and Jacobean literature from the University of Chicago.
She wrote her first poems when she was 6, joined the Authors League at 11, published her first poem at Indiana University when she was 19, won first prize in a literary  contest at Butler University when she was 20 and published her first book of poems, "Prismatic Ground," at 28, in 1937, a year after receiving a master's in  Elizabethan and Jacobean literature from the University of Chicago.
"
        Miss Young, who taught at an Indianapolis high school and at the University of Iowa after Chicago, moved to New York in 1943 and burst on the literary scene two years later with the simultaneous publication of "Moderate Fable," which won the best poetry award from the National Academy of Arts and Letters, and "Angel in the Forest," a highly acclaimed account of successive utopian communities at New Harmony, Ind.
She was born in Bronxville, N.Y., and graduated from Newton College of the Sacred Heart, which has since merged with Boston College, and Fordham University Law School.
The American Dance Festival (which moved to Duke University in Durham, N.C., in 1978) was founded by her at Connecticut College as an outgrowth of the Bennington program.
She received a bachelor's degree from Teachers College of Columbia University and a master's degree from New York University.
She received a bachelor's degree from Teachers College of Columbia University and a master's degree from New York University.
She performed with Graham from 1929 to 1931, but committed herself to dance education early on, joining the fledgling dance faculty at New York University in 1930.
"
        Ms. Hill also taught and choreographed at the University of Chicago and Kansas State Teachers College in the 1920's and 30's, at the University of Oregon and in colleges throughout the nation.
"
        Ms. Hill also taught and choreographed at the University of Chicago and Kansas State Teachers College in the 1920's and 30's, at the University of Oregon and in colleges throughout the nation.
In Australia, she was a co-director of the choreographic conferences of the University of New South Wales in Sydney and the Victorian College of the Arts in Melbourne.
She received honorary degrees from Adelphi University, Bennington College, Mount Holyoke College and Towson State University.
She received honorary degrees from Adelphi University, Bennington College, Mount Holyoke College and Towson State University.
The two met as teen-agers at the University Settlement House, which provided social services for poor Lower East Side residents.

        Florence Greenberg, a one-time New Jersey housewife who parlayed an unlikely  hit record by a teen-age group known as the Shirelles into an improbable career  as the proprietor of a leading independent label of the 1960's, died on Thursday at the Hackensack University Medical Center.
Born on Staten Island, Evelyn Schneider entered the Sisters of Charity upon graduating from high school in New Brighton and earned degrees in English from the College of Mount St. Vincent in Riverdale and in nutrition from Seton Hill College in Greensburg, Pa. She received a master's in institutional management from Columbia University.
Beginning in 1953, she also lectured at Harvard University in the department of classics.
She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Ohio State University.
After doing graduate work at the University of Chicago, she earned a Ph.D. in the classics at Radcliffe.
Whether working as an archivist in Colonial Williamsburg in the 1920's and 30's, cataloguing Thomas Jefferson's papers at the University of Virginia and the Library of Congress in the 1940's or serving as a historical architectural specialist and information officer at the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the 1950's, 60's and 70's, she kept her sights on early American history.
"
        A historian with a distinctly open mind, Mrs. Bullock, a native of Oakland, Calif., and a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, was forever  making sharp detours into new and fertile realms.
By the time of Mr. Kahn's death in 1984, the couple had given away $5 million, including $1 million each to their respective colleges, Smith and the University of Pennsylvania, and $1 million for the Dallas Public Library to buy  books.
Since her husband's death, Mrs. Kahn had donated more than $15 million to the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, the Dallas Museum of Art, Southern Methodist University and other beneficiaries.
After graduating from Emory University in 1955, Mrs. McGreevy worked at the Georgia Motor Club, an automobile owners' group.
She received an M.B.A. from New York University in 1984.
A native of New York, she graduated from Wheaton College in Norton, Mass., with a bachelor's degree in English in 1963 and from Columbia University with a  master's in early childhood education in 1964.

        Dorothy Porter Wesley, a librarian who played the primary role in building Howard University's collection of books and other materials for the study of black history and culture, died on Sunday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., at the home  of her daughter, where she had moved recently from Washington.
Mrs. Wesley, whose maiden name was Burnett, was born in Warrenton, Va., and reared in Montclair, N.J. She went received a bachelor's degree in 1928 from Howard and a master's degree in library science in 1932 from Columbia University.
Dr. Calabresi, who was born in Ferrara, received her Ph.D. from the University of Florence in 1923 and went to teach at the University of Rome.
Dr. Calabresi, who was born in Ferrara, received her Ph.D. from the University of Florence in 1923 and went to teach at the University of Rome.
Her brother, a former professor of medicine at Yale University, died in 1988.
      
Most recently, Ms. Sutter studied divinity at Harvard University, hoping to be ordained in the Episcopal Church.
She graduated from Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Conn., and earned a bachelor's degree in English literature, magna cum laude, from Princeton University in 1974.
After earning a law degree from the Southwestern University of Law in 1990, she produced a video documentary, "The Spirit of Peace," about Peace Pilgrim, a woman who renounced all worldly goods and wandered across America preaching the cause of peace.
By the time of Mr. Kahn's death in 1984, the couple had given away $5 million, including $1 million each to their respective colleges, Smith and the University of Pennsylvania, and $1 million for the Dallas Public Library to buy  books.
Since her husband's death, Mrs. Kahn had donated more than $15 million to the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, the Dallas Museum of Art, Southern Methodist University and other beneficiaries.

        Elizabeth Ball Holmes, a University of Hawaii speech professor who was one of the state's foremost experts on Hawaiian pidgin English, died on Dec. 17.
Mrs. Geber studied briefly at the University of Southern California and later taught there while pursuing studio work and performing.

        Helen Hill Miller, a prolific biographer and journalist, died on Tuesday at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington.
Mrs. Miller was born in Highland Park, Ill. She received a bachelor's degree from Bryn Mawr College in 1921, a diploma in economics from Oxford University in 1922 and a doctorate in political science from the University of Chicago in 1928.
Mrs. Miller was born in Highland Park, Ill. She received a bachelor's degree from Bryn Mawr College in 1921, a diploma in economics from Oxford University in 1922 and a doctorate in political science from the University of Chicago in 1928.

        Rosalind K. Loring, a specialist in continuing education, adviser to Federal  agencies and university administrator, died on Dec. 18 at her home in Los Angeles.
Over the years, Mrs. Loring was a consultant to the National Endowment for the Humanities, president of the Adult Education Association/ U.S.A. and a board member of the National University Extension Association.
She retired in 1984 as associate provost for extended education at the University of Southern California.
She was born in Philadelphia and graduated in art and education from the University of California at Los Angeles, where she also earned a master's degree in adult education.
Mrs. Kuhn was born in Greenwich Village and studied at Marymount College in  Tarrytown, N.Y., and at Columbia University.
She grew up in Brooklyn, earned a drama degree  from Howard University in Washington and studied at the Shakespeare Institute in Stratford-on-Avon, England.
Mrs. Gambee, who was born in Manhattan, graduated from Vassar College and did postgraduate work at the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.

        Lois Moss Rothenberg, a benefactor of Jewish and other causes, died on Friday at New York University Hospital.
She was an assistant professor of English at Rutgers University from 1969 to 1974, and she also held various teaching positions at Duke University, Atlanta University and Spelman College, among others.
She was an assistant professor of English at Rutgers University from 1969 to 1974, and she also held various teaching positions at Duke University, Atlanta University and Spelman College, among others.
She was an assistant professor of English at Rutgers University from 1969 to 1974, and she also held various teaching positions at Duke University, Atlanta University and Spelman College, among others.
She worked for the State Department in Washington from 1947 to 1953, then resigned to marry William Anthony Camps, a classicist at Cambridge University.
Ms. Sulka trained in sociology and received a master's degree from Brown University before turning to theater.
She was a 1924 graduate of the New York University School of Law and was an advocate of women's rights.
The book "Cosa: The Lamps," which she wrote with Dr. Norma Goldman of Wayne State University, was issued last fall as part of the American Academy series through the University of Michigan Press.
The book "Cosa: The Lamps," which she wrote with Dr. Norma Goldman of Wayne State University, was issued last fall as part of the American Academy series through the University of Michigan Press.
She was a fellow of Brandeis University and a member of its creative arts committee.
The cause was cancer, said a spokesman for Indiana University.
She was on the faculty of Indiana University from 1961 until she retired as distinguished professor emeritus of history in 1993.
Born Barbara Brightfield in Belleville, Ill., she grew up in Berkeley, Calif. She received three degrees in history from the University of California at Berkeley, including, in 1948, a Ph.D. She started her academic career at Berkeley as a junior research historian at the Institute of Slavic Studies and a lecturer in history.
Among her works currently in print are "History of the Balkans: 18th and 19th Centuries" (Cambridge University Press, 1983); "History of the Balkans: 20th Century" (Cambridge, 1983); "Russia and the Formation of the Romanian Empire" (Cambridge, 1984); "Modern Austria: Empire and Republic" (Cambridge, 1987); "Russia and the Rumanian National Cause" (Archon reprint, 1974), and "Russia's Balkan Entanglements, 1806-1914" (Cambridge, 1991).

        Dr. Georgia B. Christopher, a professor of English at Emory University, died on Dec. 16 in DeKalb Medical Center in Decatur, Ga. She was 62 and lived in Decatur.
She was the author of "Milton and the Science of the Saints" (Princeton University Press, 1983), for which she received the James Holly Hanford Award of the Milton Society of America.
Born in Barnesville, Ga., she graduated from Agnes Scott College and earned her Ph.D. in English from Yale University.
She taught at the University of North Carolina and the University of Richmond before joining the Emory faculty in 1981.
She taught at the University of North Carolina and the University of Richmond before joining the Emory faculty in 1981.
She was born in Kew Gardens, Queens, and studied at the New York University School of Architecture and the American School of Design.
She was born Suzanne Storrs Poulton in Provo, Utah, and studied speech and communication at the University of Utah.
Among the institutions in which she held leadership posts were the Institute of Contemporary Jewry of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, the Vidal Sassoon Center for the Study of Anti-Semitism of the Hebrew University and the Committee on Manpower Opportunities in Israel.
Among the institutions in which she held leadership posts were the Institute of Contemporary Jewry of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, the Vidal Sassoon Center for the Study of Anti-Semitism of the Hebrew University and the Committee on Manpower Opportunities in Israel.
For more than 30 years, Mrs. Manoff was the American executive director for the Institute of Contemporary Jewry of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
From 1932 to 1936, she worked at the Pasteur Institute in Paris and at Istanbul University before emigrating to the United States.
After World War II she was reunited with her father and worked with him at New York University, the Polytechnic Institute in Brooklyn and the New York Medical College until his death in 1956.
While there she also held research positions at either Stanford University or the University of San Francisco until her retirement in 1978.
While there she also held research positions at either Stanford University or the University of San Francisco until her retirement in 1978.

        Blanche G. Etra, a lawyer and philanthropist who played an important role in the development of Yeshiva University, died on Wednesday in her home in Manhattan.
When the university founded the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in the mid-1970's, she was named to its Board of Directors and served as secretary from 1986 until her death.
In 1938, she received a law degree from Columbia University and began a private practice.

        Nora Dunfee, an actress who taught for many years in the graduate acting program of the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, died on Dec. 23 at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan.
The cause was complications after a brief illness, the university's press office reported in a statement.
"
        The daughter of Matthew Halton, a Canadian journalist, Mrs. Tynan was reared in Canada and England and attended Oxford University.
Sylvia Bernstein was born in Manhattan and graduated from Cornell University.
After graduating from the University of Lausanne in Switzerland, she became an assistant clinical professor at Cornell University Medical College.
After graduating from the University of Lausanne in Switzerland, she became an assistant clinical professor at Cornell University Medical College.
She was born in Istanbul, Turkey, and served for many years as a trustee of Roberts College, an English-language university there.

        Dr. Mary Dwight B. McNair Scott, a biochemistry professor at the University of Pennsylvania who was a pioneer in the identification of the B complex of vitamins and their functions, died on Feb. 9 at the Hahnemann Hospital in Philadelphia, where she lived.
In 1935, while she was completing work at Harvard University for a doctorate in biochemistry, she became one of the first women appointed to the faculty of the Harvard Medical School as a research associate.
She married the following year and moved to England with her husband where she did research on the biochemistry of diabetes at the University College Medical School in London.
After her husband completed his wartime service in England, the couple settled in Philadelphia, where she went to work for the University of Pennsylvania's Children's Hospital.
She studied at Fordham University and at the Regina Mundi Pontifical Institute in Rome, and received a master's degree in history from Villanova University.
She studied at Fordham University and at the Regina Mundi Pontifical Institute in Rome, and received a master's degree in history from Villanova University.

        Dr. Gily Epstein Bard-Staroben, a plant scientist at the City University of New York for some 30 years, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Gaithersburg, Md.
She graduated from Hunter College and received a master's degree in soil science from Cornell University and a doctorate in plant physiology from Rutgers University.
She graduated from Hunter College and received a master's degree in soil science from Cornell University and a doctorate in plant physiology from Rutgers University.
After earning bachelor's and master's degrees in education from Boston University, she tutored extensively in Cambridge, Mass., and then in Arlington, Mass., before establishing her own school.
She was a graduate of Dana Hall in Wellesley, Mass., and of the University of Illinois.
Ms. Cook was born in Portland, Ore., and attended the University of California at Los Angeles.

        Alison Frantz, one of the foremost archeological photographers of Greek sites and antiquities, died on Feb. 1 at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. She was 91.
When she took over as the official photographer for the excavations in the Athenian agora, the civic center of the ancient city, she carried with her a Ph.D. in classics from Columbia University and an undergraduate degree in the same area from Smith College.
She was born in San Francisco in 1903 and received a bachelor of arts in philology and Romance languages from Stanford University in 1924.
She taught courses in American folk music at the University of Southern California, and was an author, with her husband, of "Charles Ives and His Music" (1955).

        Elizabeth Dorothy Futas, the director of the University of Rhode Island's Graduate School of Library and Information Studies, died on Feb. 6 in Philadelphia.
Dr. Futas took up her duties at the university in Kingston, R.I., in 1986 and during the next decade helped to train a generation of reference and children's book librarians.
Before accepting the job at Rhode Island, she held faculty positions at Rutgers University, Emory University and the University of Washington in Seattle, among other institutions.
Before accepting the job at Rhode Island, she held faculty positions at Rutgers University, Emory University and the University of Washington in Seattle, among other institutions.
Before accepting the job at Rhode Island, she held faculty positions at Rutgers University, Emory University and the University of Washington in Seattle, among other institutions.
She received a master's in librarian science at the University of Minnesota and a doctorate in information studies at Rutgers.
Mrs. Houlton, a native of Duluth, Minn., studied dance at Carleton College and New York University and at several New York ballet and modern-dance schools.
But she also designed the Women's Faculty Lounge at Columbia University and helped in redesigning the Swiss Embassy in Washington.
The cause was complications from a bone marrow transplant for breast cancer, said a spokesman for American University, where she was a professor and former dean of the school of education.
Myra Pollack Sadker was born in Portland, Me., and graduated from Boston University.
She received a master's degree at Harvard University and a doctorate in education at the University of Massachusetts.
She received a master's degree at Harvard University and a doctorate in education at the University of Massachusetts.
She taught at junior and senior high schools in Massachusetts and Thailand before joining the faculty of American University in 1973.
Her work was recognized this year with the Eleanor Roosevelt Award of the American Association of University Women.

        Vivian Verdell Gordon, who wrote about feminism, black families and affirmative action and who was a professor of black studies at the State University at Albany, died on Wednesday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany.
She was the author of 10 books and several articles, a former chairwoman of the department of Africana studies at the university and a poet.
Born in Washington, she received an undergraduate degree from Virginia State University in 1955, a master's degree in sociology from the University of Pennsylvania in 1957 and a Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Virginia in 1974.
Born in Washington, she received an undergraduate degree from Virginia State University in 1955, a master's degree in sociology from the University of Pennsylvania in 1957 and a Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Virginia in 1974.
Born in Washington, she received an undergraduate degree from Virginia State University in 1955, a master's degree in sociology from the University of Pennsylvania in 1957 and a Ph.D. in sociology from the University of Virginia in 1974.
She also worked with the Women's Christian Alliance Child Welfare Agency and the Upward Bound Project in California before she began teaching at the University of Virginia in 1971.
She was head of the university's black studies program from 1974 to 1979.
She studied at the Juilliard School of Music and Columbia University before making her solo debut at Carnegie Recital Hall in 1953.
The cause was cancer, said colleagues at the physics department at the University of Illinois, where Dr. Jones was active as a professor of physics until a month ago.
Dr. Jones served as director of the university's computer-based Education Research Laboratory from 1992 until last year.
Aside from research sabbaticals in Britain, Germany, Japan and Tasmania, she spent her academic career at the University of Illinois.
In later years, she contributed introductions to several of her brother's posthumously published works, including "The Alcestiad" (1977), "American Characteristics and Other Essays" (1979) and "The Journals of Thornton Wilder 1939-1961" (1985), selected and edited by Donald Gallup of Yale University.
In 1978, Miss Wilder provided funds to establish an annual prize through the Columbia University Translation Center for distinguished foreign translations of American literature.
In 1993, the university renamed the center the Wilder Translation Center for Arts and Education.

        Norma Fields Furst, the president of Baltimore Hebrew University for the last three years, died on March 7 at her home in Wynnewood, Pa. She was 64.
She was associated with Temple University from 1963 to 1983 in various positions, including full professor and finally dean of student affairs.
She was active in many national and local organizations, including International B'nai B'rith/Hillel Commission, the Jewish Publication Society, and the American Association of University Women.

        Ludmilla B. Turkevich, an expert in Russian language and literature who was the first woman to teach at Princeton and then spent 18 years as chairwoman of the Russian department at Douglass College of Rutgers University, died on Friday at the Princeton Medical Center.
She had the academic credentials, including degrees from New York University and Bryn Mawr and a doctorate from Columbia.
And she had experience as a teacher at the University of Kansas and at Douglass College, in New Brunswick, N.J.
Yet if there had not been a war on in 1944, and if Princeton had not found itself without a single Russian teacher at a time when there was a sudden, almost panicky upsurge in interest in the Soviet Union, it is doubtful that the university would have allowed the former Ludmilla Buketoff of New Britain, Conn., to be more than a faculty wife, the bride of John Turkevich, a professor of chemistry.
Even after Princeton did allow her on the faculty in 1944, the university, which would wait a quarter-century more before admitting women as students, insisted on maintaining a certain distinction.
Among the eight books she turned out over the next dozen years was one about her father: "Oakes Ames, Jottings of a Harvard Botanist," (Botanical Museum of Harvard, 1979); one about her husband: "The Plimpton Papers, Law and Diplomacy" (University Press of America, 1985) and even one about her father-in-law, a wide-ranging literary collector: "A Collector's Recollections, George Arthur Plimpton" (Columbia University Library, 1992).
Among the eight books she turned out over the next dozen years was one about her father: "Oakes Ames, Jottings of a Harvard Botanist," (Botanical Museum of Harvard, 1979); one about her husband: "The Plimpton Papers, Law and Diplomacy" (University Press of America, 1985) and even one about her father-in-law, a wide-ranging literary collector: "A Collector's Recollections, George Arthur Plimpton" (Columbia University Library, 1992).
Among the eight books she turned out over the next dozen years was one about her father: "Oakes Ames, Jottings of a Harvard Botanist," (Botanical Museum of Harvard, 1979); one about her husband: "The Plimpton Papers, Law and Diplomacy" (University Press of America, 1985), and even one about her father-in-law, a wide-ranging literary collector: "A Collector's Recollections, George Arthur Plimpton" (Columbia University Library, 1992).
Among the eight books she turned out over the next dozen years was one about her father: "Oakes Ames, Jottings of a Harvard Botanist," (Botanical Museum of Harvard, 1979); one about her husband: "The Plimpton Papers, Law and Diplomacy" (University Press of America, 1985), and even one about her father-in-law, a wide-ranging literary collector: "A Collector's Recollections, George Arthur Plimpton" (Columbia University Library, 1992).
The cause was cancer, according to a spokeswoman for Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Yeshiva University, which her family had long supported.
It was while she was a classics major at Radcliffe College that she met her husband, then a student at Harvard University.
As a student at Flora Stone Mather College of Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Miss Kuhn helped organize a college chapter of the League of Women Voters.
She was born in New York City and graduated from the Brearley School, Columbia University and the New York School of Social Work.
The next year, the troupe participated in "The Early Years: American Modern Dance from 1900 through the 1930's," a festival organized by the State University of New York at Purchase.
Mrs. Rowell taught for 14 years at the San Francisco Conservatory of Music, and was on the faculties of the University of California at Berkeley, Stanford University, Mills College and San Francisco State University.
Mrs. Rowell taught for 14 years at the San Francisco Conservatory of Music, and was on the faculties of the University of California at Berkeley, Stanford University, Mills College and San Francisco State University.
Mrs. Rowell taught for 14 years at the San Francisco Conservatory of Music, and was on the faculties of the University of California at Berkeley, Stanford University, Mills College and San Francisco State University.
Her husband, Edward Z. Rowell, a speech and philosophy professor at the University of California, died in 1975.
"
        Mrs. Harp was born in Buffalo and studied design at North Texas State University, where she met and married Mr. Harp, an English instructor.
A native of Utica, N.Y., where her father operated a bakery, Mrs. Ostrander, whose maiden name was Romano, received a nursing degree from the University of Buffalo and spent 10 years as a Red Cross executive before settling in Atlanta and becoming a full-time volunteer on issues involving the elderly.
Mrs. Goldman was also active in the women's division of the American Technion Society and the Yeshiva University women's organization.
More recently, she researched poverty in other regions as an associate of the Western Rural Development Center in Corvallis, Ore. She had accepted a faculty appointment in the department of rural sociology at Cornell University and had planned to leave Ithaca College, where she had been a faculty member since 1977, at the end of the semester.
She graduated from Vassar College and received a master's degree in anthropology from the University of Illinois.
Ms. Lopez also worked with the New Jersey Department of Human Services, as an assistant administrator of Marlboro Psychiatric Hospital in Marlboro, N.J., and chief executive of Ancora Psychiatric Hospital in Hammonton, N.J.
        She held undergraduate and master's degrees in social work from Rutgers University.
Ms. Lopez also worked with the New Jersey Department of Human Services, as an assistant administrator of Marlboro Psychiatric Hospital in Marlboro, N.J., and chief executive of Ancora Psychiatric Hospital in Hammonton, N.J.
        She held undergraduate and master's degrees in social work from Rutgers University.
She graduated from Connecticut College with honors in 1974 and received a master's degree in journalism from New York University in 1978.
