Ms. Heckart graduated in 1942 from Ohio State University in Columbus, where she she caught whooping cough, which resulted in the deepening of her voice.
Having grown up in Columbia, S.C. -- her father a minister in the A.M.E. Church, her mother  a teacher -- she had graduated from Wilberforce University in Ohio and was studying for a master's degree at Ohio State when she joined the  Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, the forerunner of the Wacs, in 1942.
Elizabeth Riley, born on the West Side of Manhattan, graduated from New York University in 1928 and received a master's degree from Columbia University two years later.
Elizabeth Riley, born on the West Side of Manhattan, graduated from New York University in 1928 and received a master's degree from Columbia University two years later.
''
        After the war, she used the language expertise she had honed at the University of Berlin to translate for occupying Americans, and then to work as Austrian editor of an American government-controlled magazine.
degree from the University of Texas at Austin, she taught in its theater and American Studies programs.
In 1986 she left Texas to lead the dance department at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis-St. Paul.
In 1999 the university named its new dance building for her.
Mrs. Kempner and her husband, Alan H., gave money and time to the Kempner Rare Book Library at Columbia University.
Dr. Jay H. Lefkowitch of the department of pathology at Columbia University added, ''Most of the liver world spent some time in her liver unit at the Royal Free Hospital in London, or wished they had.
''She worked on all aspects of liver disease and led the most prominent university and hospital department on hepatology in Europe,'' said Dr. Peter Scheuer, former chairman of histopathology at the University of London.
''She worked on all aspects of liver disease and led the most prominent university and hospital department on hepatology in Europe,'' said Dr. Peter Scheuer, former chairman of histopathology at the University of London.
Unable to gain acceptance to medical schools in England because of her sex, she went to Scotland to attend the University of Edinburgh.
After attending Antioch College and Ohio State University -- she lacked the money to complete her studies -- Ms. Hamilton moved to New York.
Topping, later the foreign editor and the managing editor of The Times and now the administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes and a professor of international journalism at Columbia University, noted in his 1972 book ''Journey Between Two Chinas'' that Ms. Durdin spoke colloquial Chinese and that she was especially unhappy when she later returned to China that the ordinary Chinese had grown afraid to talk to her.
      
She was the first woman to serve as board chairman of the State University of New York.
Ms. Whitmore attended Piedmont High School and was admitted to Stanford University in 1933 after scoring highest in the state on a college entrance exam.
She served as a senior fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara, Calif., before joining the faculty at Dalhousie University in Halifax in 1979, first as a political science professor and later as an adjunct law professor.
She grew up surrounded by lamas and a loving family, said William Edelglass, a professor of philosophy who specializes on Tibet at Emory University.
Her daughter, Bernadette Castro, the New York State parks commissioner, said she died at North Shore University Hospital.
In the 90's she also began teaching jazz history and piano at Cheyney University in Cheyney, Pa., and worked as the musical director for Bill Cosby's short-lived television quiz show, ''You Bet Your Life.
She graduated from the Fieldston School in Riverdale, and received a degree in early childhood education from Teachers College at Columbia University.
She earned a master's degree in child psychology from Clark University in Worcester, Mass.
The latest, ''Facing the Music'' (2001), about student and employee campaigns at Sydney University to defend the music faculty against being dismantled by financial cutbacks, received its premiere at the Sydney Film Festival in June on the day after Ms. Anderson's illness had been diagnosed as fatal.
Ms. Anderson, born in Perth, Western Australia, earned a degree in economics in Australia before receiving a master's in sociology from Columbia University.
She studied psychology and pedagogy at the University of Munich and received a teacher's certificate in 1934.
Among her most successful books were ''Daniela'' (1953), ''The Scapegoat'' (1954), ''The Middle of Life'' (1950), published as ''Nina'' by Regnery in 1956, ''Mirjam'' (1983) and ''Abelard's Love'' (1991), which was reissued by the University of Nebraska Press in 1996 and remains in print.
In the mid-1970's Ms. Farrell cut back on performing and began teaching classical and popular voice at Indiana State University.
''
        Correction:  March 26, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary of the dramatic soprano Eileen Farrell yesterday misidentified the university where she taught voice in the 1970's.
It was Indiana University at Bloomington, not Indiana State.
After a year Miss DeLay transferred to Michigan State University, after her parents decided that they did not want her to study solely music.
Her other teaching associations included Meadowmount, Aspen, the University of Cincinnati, the Philadelphia College of the Performing Arts, the New England Conservatory, and the Royal College of Music in London.
In addition to many honorary degrees, Miss DeLay received the National Medal of Arts in 1994, the National Music Council's American Eagle Award in 1995, the Sanford Medal from Yale University in 1997 and the Order of the Sacred Treasure from the Japanese Government in 1998.
      
Lakshmi was trained in music by her uncle, T. Viswanathan, who teaches at Wesleyan University in Connecticut.
Her daughter, Bernadette Castro, the New York State parks commissioner, said she died at North Shore University Hospital.
She earned a bachelor's degree from Tulane University in 1942 and settled in New York, where she held various publishing jobs.
Shelley Smith Mydans was born on May 20, 1915, in Palo Alto, Calif., the daughter of a professor of journalism at Stanford University.
After graduating from the University of California at Los Angeles, she was briefly a schoolteacher and then came to New York.
Probably no more than 10 other combatants from the uprising are still alive, said her son-in-law, Eugene Orenstein, who teaches modern Jewish history at McGill University in Montreal.
After Mr. Sobell was released from prison, Mrs. Sobell studied system theory and received a doctorate in computer education from Teachers College at Columbia University in 1972.
But she made it to the university, where she was elected Queen of the Carnival.
Several institutions began formal programs in art conservation, including New York University, in 1960.
The University of Delaware's program at Winterthur followed in the mid-1960's, and State University of New York at Buffalo started its program in 1970.
The University of Delaware's program at Winterthur followed in the mid-1960's, and State University of New York at Buffalo started its program in 1970.
After studying chemistry at Innsbruck University in Austria, she returned to Dresden to study the chemistry of paper, inks and colors at the Technische Hochschule while also working in the print room at the State Gallery.
Then a Rhodes scholar and a lecturer at Qinghua University, John Fairbank later became the leading scholar of modern China in the United States.
At 19, she earned a degree in chemistry from Louisiana State University, and she taught briefly at John McNeese Junior College in Lake Charles, La., before her marriage, which ended after 14 years.
She died at Fairview University Hospital surrounded by family members and Dr. Park.
The University of Minnesota, which has performed five lung transplants using living donors, will continue its plan of performing a total of 10 such operations and then evaluating the results, Dr. Park said, ''to see whether this is a responsible thing to do or not.
''Theirs is probably the most remarkable collection of Dutch old master drawings put together ever in America,'' Martin Royalton-Kisch, curator of Dutch and Flemish drawings at the British Museum, said when the couple donated a portion of their collection to the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University in 1999.
''She was a leader in raising awareness and funding in search of a cure for scleroderma,'' said Dr. M. Kari Connolly, a professor of dermatology and medicine at the University of California at San Francisco, who has been doing research about scleroderma for 10 years.
The foundation's activities include operating two sites for research on the disease, at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and the University of California at San Francisco.
The foundation's activities include operating two sites for research on the disease, at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and the University of California at San Francisco.
Wealthy neighbors helped her attend the University of Puerto Rico, where she earned a teaching certificate in 1942.
She earned a master's degree from Columbia University's New York School of Social Work in 1954.
She joined the faculty of San Diego State University's School of Social Work in 1978, and later founded the Graduate School for Community Development.
Ms. Brown taught dance at institutions like Colorado University at Boulder and the University of California at Santa Cruz.
Ms. Brown taught dance at institutions like Colorado University at Boulder and the University of California at Santa Cruz.
A native of Bergen, Norway, she studied at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology and received a degree in chemical engineering from Columbia in 1971.
She received a master's in environmental engineering at what is now Polytechnic University in Brooklyn in 1977.
Ms. Abady was born in Richmond, Va. She graduated from Syracuse University and received a master of fine arts from Florida State University.
Ms. Abady was born in Richmond, Va. She graduated from Syracuse University and received a master of fine arts from Florida State University.
''
        In 1993, the University of Iowa, where Mrs. Benson in 1927 was the first person to earn a master's in journalism, held a symposium to discuss the importance of Nancy Drew.
After graduating from the University of Iowa in 1925, she worked for a year for a newspaper in Clinton, Iowa.
'' She left a writing sample and returned to the University of Iowa for graduate work.
) Dr. Gould died n 1998; Ms. Gould's son Roger V. Gould, a sociologist at Yale University, died of leukemia at 39 on April 29.

        Sharon Anne Hogan, a Chicago university librarian who helped usher the country's libraries into the electronic age, died on April 27 while convalescing with friends in Paradise Valley, Ariz. She was 57 and lived in suburban Oak Brook.
The cause was cancer, said the University of Illinois, where she had been a librarian since 1990.
Ms. Hogan left Chicago on Feb. 14 to attend a conference and was stopping over in Arizona on her way back when she fell ill, the university reported.
''Sharon Hogan was a pivotal figure in the rebirth of the modern library in the digital age,'' said the university chancellor, Sylvia Manning.
She then received an advanced degree in library science at the University of Michigan.
She held positions there, at Temple University and at Louisiana State University, where she became director of libraries.
She held positions there, at Temple University and at Louisiana State University, where she became director of libraries.
The University of Illinois recruited her in 1990 with the additional title of vice provost for information management, dealing with computing, telecommunications and information systems.
A native New Yorker, Ms. Tish attended Hunter College and New York University.
She attended the University of Wisconsin and studied painting at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and acting at the Goodman Theater in Chicago.
She entered New York University at 16, majoring in English literature; she graduated in 1924.
''
        Her journalism won her many awards, including one for distinguished diplomatic reporting from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Affairs.
She was also given honorary doctorates by the University of California at Los Angeles, Columbia, Princeton, Mount Holyoke, Bucknell, Muhlenberg and Manhattan Marymount.
A precocious child, Flora graduated from high school at 15 and entered the University of California at Los Angeles.
After receiving a graduate degree at the Columbia University School of Journalism the following year, she became a reporter for The Associated Press.
She received most of her education at the University of Bern.
In addition to her son, a professor at Rutgers University who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her sister, Radka Donnell, a poet and artist, of Cambridge, Mass., and her brother, Mitko Zagaroff, also of Cambridge, who is a chief engineer for the artists Christo and Jean-Claude.
      
Trained in archaeology at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, she was chosen as a young scholar to organize a monumental project, ''The Census of Classical Works Known to the Renaissance,'' which remained her focus for more than 40 years.
At Oxford University in 1992, she lectured on the culinary uses of marijuana during the Italian Renaissance.
Her 1999 book, ''Art, Culture and Cuisine: Ancient and Medieval Gastronomy'' (University of Chicago), explored connections between food and art from prehistory through the late Gothic period.
Ms. Bober founded the department of fine arts at the old Heights campus of New York University in the Bronx and served as its chairwoman from 1967 to 1973.
She is survived by her companion, Ted Barnett, of Philadelphia, and by two sons, Jonathan Bober, a curator at the Blanton Museum of Art at the University of Texas in Austin, and David Bober of New York.
      
She graduated from the University of Chicago in 1937, married Roland Bailey the same year and had three children.
In 1983 a collection of articles in her honor, ''Celebrating Children's Books,'' generated royalties that were used to establish the Zena Sutherland lecture series, now run by the Chicago Public Library and the University of Chicago Lab School.
In 1964 she married Alec Sutherland, a Scot who was then director of broadcasting at the University of Chicago.
At the University of California, Berkeley, where she was a professor of African-American Studies, she founded Poetry for the People, which trains undergraduates to take poetry to community groups as a form of political empowerment.
''
        Her journalism won her many awards, including one for distinguished diplomatic reporting from the Georgetown University School of Foreign Affairs.
A precocious child, Flora graduated from high school at 15 and entered the University of California at Los Angeles, where she earned a bachelor of arts summa cum laude and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
After receiving a graduate degree at the Columbia University School of Journalism the following year, she became a reporter for The Associated Press.
Ms. Knapp graduated with honors from Brown University and worked as a reporter for The Boston Business Journal before joining at The Phoenix, where she was a features writer and later the lifestyle editor.
Mrs. Cook gave large sums to institutions throughout New England, from Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard University to animal shelters, her daughter said.
Born in Pittsburgh, Anne Delp Snyder attended the University of Pittsburgh's law school.
Miss McLean graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a bachelor's degree in English.
Mrs. Marshall published her first book, ''!Kung of Nyae Nyae,'' in 1975 (Harvard University Press), and her second, ''Nyae Nyae !Kung Belief and Rites,'' three years ago (Peabody Museum Press).
Dr. Stewart left Oxford in 1974, and became a research fellow at the University of Birmingham in England, where she worked until about two years ago.
She studied at Northwestern University and graduated from Southern Methodist University in 1942.
She studied at Northwestern University and graduated from Southern Methodist University in 1942.
She earned a master's degree in speech and drama from Catholic University.
Gilbert V. Hartke, one of her professors at Catholic University, called her in Japan to ask how the production was doing.
Born in 1900, Mrs. Soria graduated from Columbia University and had a career in journalism until Arthur Judson, the powerful concert manager, hired her.
It was not the destination that seemed likely when Ms. Wolff, at 22, wrote an 830-page story for a composition class at the University of Michigan and began her journey to the summits of the literary world.
In 1940, the story won her the Avery Hopwood Prize, awarded along with $1,000 for excellent writing by University of Michigan students.
At the University of Michigan, she met Hubert Skidmore, whom she married.
Mrs. Stern had been honorary chairman of the board of directors of Yeshiva University's Stern College for Women.
' ''
        MS. PASTERNAK realized her calling when she aced art history at the University of Massachusetts in Amherst, where she also had the distinction of being the first woman to teach bodybuilding.

        Josephine Laimbeer Schiff, who was active in a number of charitable organizations, died on Wednesday at North Shore University Hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y. She was 89.
In 1992, Mrs. Goldman gave Yale University Law School what Guido Calabresi, then its dean, called ''probably the biggest gift in the history of American legal education'' -- more than $20 million, principally for the reconstruction and expansion of its library, which was renamed the Lillian Goldman Law Library.
The first woman to graduate in law from Yale, Alice Jordan of Michigan, received her diploma in 1886 after the law faculty had defied the university's scandalized trustees by accepting her.
In 1953, she married Allen Walker Read, a linguist who is now professor emeritus of English at Columbia University, and moved the institute to New York.
She was also a director and president of the Sensory Awareness Foundation of Mill Valley, Calif.
        Ms. Read was born on Dec. 7, 1909, in Belleville, Ill. She studied biology at the University of Wisconsin and received a master's degree in modern dance from the University of Illinois.
      
She was also a director and president of the Sensory Awareness Foundation of Mill Valley, Calif.
        Ms. Read was born on Dec. 7, 1909, in Belleville, Ill. She studied biology at the University of Wisconsin and received a master's degree in modern dance from the University of Illinois.
      
She attended Hunter College and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, and began writing for The New York World in 1929.
She attended Hunter College and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, and began writing for The New York World in 1929.
She also served for seven years as a children's book specialist at the University of California Press.
She grew up in Berkeley, Calif., and graduated from the University of California.
She graduated from the University of California with an English major and experience in many campus demonstrations.
In 1974, Ms. Lipton began a master's-degree course in rehabilitation counseling at San Francisco State University, graduating in 1976.
At night, she earned a law degree at Golden Gate University.
''
        The daughter of a tennis instructor and a native of Ventura, Calif., she played on the men's tennis team at the University of Southern California because there was no women's squad.
Her work, which had faded from view in the 1980's, made a resurgence after being featured at the Harvard University Film Archive in 1994.
''
        Ms. Raven, who had a master's degree in linguistics from the State University of New York at Brockport, was a primary force in the tap dance revivals of the 1970's and 80's in New York.
Together they braved a windy outdoor performance on a cold mountain top in Japan to see Dai Rakuda Kan, the Butoh group they presented at the American Dance Festival's home at Duke University in 1982.
Born in Washington, she graduated with honors from the University of Wisconsin in 1966.
She received a fellowship for graduate work in American literary and cultural history at George Washington University and attended the Harvard University Summer Institute in Arts Administration in 1974.
She received a fellowship for graduate work in American literary and cultural history at George Washington University and attended the Harvard University Summer Institute in Arts Administration in 1974.
Her philanthropy included the New York City Ballet, the National Museum of Racing, the National Museum of Dance and equine research at the Veterinary College of Cornell University.
As a senior at Maui High School she was elected student body president, and by the time she graduated from the University of Hawaii in 1948, her interests had shifted from medicine to the humanities.
In 1951, she graduated from the University of Chicago Law School.
She was born Bernice Goldberg in Fall River, Mass., and held a bachelor's degree from Northeastern University.
For additional income, she worked at a university and helped raise the children of a large local family.
A 1975 graduate of California State University at Sacramento, she worked for the United States Forestry Service until 1980, when she decided to follow in her father's footsteps and join the Air Force.
Ms. Hilton taught at schools abroad and in the United States, among them Stanford University.

        Eileen Jackson Southern, a scholar of Renaissance and African-American music and the first black woman to be appointed a tenured full professor at Harvard University, died on Sunday at her home in Port Charlotte, Fla. She was 82.
She graduated in 1940 from the University of Chicago, where she received a master's degree the next year.
In the 1950's she studied at New York University under the Renaissance music scholar Gustave Reese.
She obtained a master's degree in psychology at New York University, became a psychotherapist and, eventually, a writer.
She was already an academic and social success at Oxford University when John Betjeman, one of the many literary figures she befriended, called her ''the aesthetes' moll.
Millicent Hearst Boudjakdji, the daughter of David Whitmire Hearst and Hope Chandler Hearst, was born on March 24, 1939, in Los Angeles and graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1961.
Dr. Nichols helped bring together Vartan Gregorian, a former president of Brown University and the New York Public Library, and the Carnegie Foundation, of which he became president in 1997.
and Ph.D. degrees in Islamic fine arts at Harvard University and spent a year as a Fulbright fellow in Turkey in 1979-80.
In the early 1990's, she was the vice president for planning and development in New York for the American University in Beirut, Lebanon.
She opened a New York studio in 1960 and, after moving to Los Angeles in 1969, taught ballet at the University of California at Los Angeles and the California Institute of the Arts.
The Lists' beneficiaries included the Metropolitan Opera, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Jewish Theological Seminary, the Jewish Museum and the New School for Social Research, now New School University.
They built art centers at M.I.T., Brown University and Swarthmore College, and endowed professorships at various universities and medical schools.

        Christine Stevens, who devoted her life to protecting all creatures -- elephants, whales and laboratory animals -- died last Thursday at Georgetown University Hospital.
She attended the University of Michigan, and after her marriage she continued her fine-arts studies but soon made animal welfare a personal concern.
Her volunteer work was encouraged by her parents in Ann Arbor, where her father, Dr. Robert Gesell, headed the physiology department of the University of Michigan.
She also taught and lectured at colleges including Wellesley, Barnard, Hunter and New York University.

        Dr. Jeanne L. Noble, a professor of education who in 1962 became one of the first African-American women to receive tenure at New York University, died on Oct. 17 at New York University Medical Center.

        Dr. Jeanne L. Noble, a professor of education who in 1962 became one of the first African-American women to receive tenure at New York University, died on Oct. 17 at New York University Medical Center.
Dr. Noble, who received her undergraduate degree from Howard University and a doctorate in education from Columbia University, joined the N.Y.U.
Dr. Noble, who received her undergraduate degree from Howard University and a doctorate in education from Columbia University, joined the N.Y.U.
At the time of her death, she was professor emeritus at the City University of New York's Graduate Center and at Brooklyn College.
A British citizen, she received bachelor's degrees in ecology and in environmental biology at the University of Connecticut in 1990 and graduated in veterinary medicine from Tufts University in 1996.
A British citizen, she received bachelor's degrees in ecology and in environmental biology at the University of Connecticut in 1990 and graduated in veterinary medicine from Tufts University in 1996.
Carole Kismaric was born on April 28, 1942, in Orange, N.J. As a student at Penn State University she majored in psychology, but after graduation in 1964 she pursued a career as a newspaper reporter.
Gallagher attended the University of Arizona for a semester and a half, training with the men's cross-country team.
Earlier, she had lectured in English at Toyama University in Toyama City, Japan.
She received a bachelor's degree in history from Earlham College in 1965 and a master's degree in library science two years later from the University of Michigan.
She received many honors, including the lifetime achievement award from the Harvard chapter of Women in Technology and an honorary degree from De Paul University's College of Computer Science.
When she was 16, she met Albert Doerr, an engineering student at Stanford University who took her to a prize fight on their first date.
She was accepted into the university's prestigious creative-writing program.
After receiving a bachelor's degree in nursing from Pace University and a master's degree in nursing from Seton Hall University, she joined Montefiore in the late 1960's.
After receiving a bachelor's degree in nursing from Pace University and a master's degree in nursing from Seton Hall University, she joined Montefiore in the late 1960's.
She was 65 and lived in Newark, where she was on the faculty of the University of Delaware.
She wrote ''Families, History and Social Change: Life Course and Cross-Cultural Perspectives'' (Westview Press, 2000), edited ''Aging and Generational Relations'' (de Gruyter, 1996) and co-edited ''Family History Revisited: Comparative Perspectives'' (University of Delaware Press, 2001).
She graduated from Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1960 and received an M.A.
from the University of Cincinnati in 1962 and a Ph.D. from Ohio State University in 1965.
from the University of Cincinnati in 1962 and a Ph.D. from Ohio State University in 1965.
That year she started her academic career as an assistant professor of history at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia.
She taught at Harvard University and at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., before joining the Center for Populations Studies at the University of Delaware as a research associate in 1976.
She taught at Harvard University and at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., before joining the Center for Populations Studies at the University of Delaware as a research associate in 1976.
She taught at Harvard University and at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., before joining the Center for Populations Studies at the University of Delaware as a research associate in 1976.
After graduating from Long Island University, Ms. Carroll received a master's degree in psychology from New York University and worked briefly as a clinical psychologist in the New York City schools.
After graduating from Long Island University, Ms. Carroll received a master's degree in psychology from New York University and worked briefly as a clinical psychologist in the New York City schools.
She was a native of Newark and attended New York University.
She attended the State University of New York at Stony Brook as a mathematics major but spent the early 1970's in Paris studying movement and mime.
Born in New York City, she grew up in Pennsylvania and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
She graduated from Bard College in New York in 1948, but instead of fulfilling her dream of studying medicine, she married William Straus, a German Jewish immigrant 12 years her senior, who had come to study agriculture at the University of California.
A native of Brooklyn, Ms. Bistany received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Kentucky.
Before entering government she taught at the University of Cincinnati and was a staff member of the developmental diagnostic center at the Children's Hospital Medical Center in that city.
Born Anne-Marie Huth Jackson to titled English parents in Savoie, France, she graduated from Oxford University in 1930 and received a master's degree from the London School of Economics and Political Science in 1932.
She worked in the communications department of Fordham University, was an editor at the United Nations, a writer-editor at Commonweal and a book reviewer for a number of publications, including The New York Times, Vogue, Town & Country and Harper's Bazaar.
She attended the University of Chicago and graduated from the University of Missouri School of Journalism in 1927.
She attended the University of Chicago and graduated from the University of Missouri School of Journalism in 1927.
Ms. Abraham was born in Manhattan, received degrees from the University of Wisconsin and Columbia and worked as a public relations consultant from 1994 until her death.
in 1985 at Sarah Lawrence College, where her interest in reading and writing poetry deepened, and in 1987 went to the Writers Workshop at the University of Iowa.
Ms. Grealy taught at Bennington College and New School University and published poetry in various magazines.
