Mrs. Todd was born in Monmouth Beach, N.J., and was educated at the Chapin School, the Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va., Barnard and Sarah Lawrence Colleges and at Columbia University, from which she graduated in 1967.
and later founded the Urban Law Institute at George Washington University.
Miss Moore, who was born in Chicago, attended the University of California at Los Angeles, and began her singing career in that city.
Mrs. Prager, a native of Fiume, Austria-Hungary, now Yugoslavia, received a doctorate from the University of Munich before coming to the United States in 1935.
She received a law degree at the University of Chicago, practiced law in Chicago and studied at the library school of the university.
She received a law degree at the University of Chicago, practiced law in Chicago and studied at the library school of the university.
She became law librarian at Northwestern University and a bureau head at the New Jersey State Library before orking at the Court of Appeals, from 1974 to 1980.
Miss Moore, who was born in Chicago, attended the University of California at Los Angeles and began her singing career in that city.
She was the author of "Decorative Folding Screens: 400 Years in the Western World" (1982; Viking) and curator of "The Folding Image," an exhibition sponsored by Yale University Art Gallery that opened in 1984 at the National Gallery of Art.

        Mary Francis Shura Craig, a writer of mystery novels and children's books, died on Saturday at the Loyola University Medical Burn Center in Maywood, Ill. She was 67 years old and lived in Hinsdale, Ill.
        She died of injuries suffered in a fire in her apartment on Dec. 13, a family spokeswoman said.
She was born Dorothy Ruben in Manhattan and graduated from the Montessori Training School in 1918, supplementing her education with studies at Columbia University.
Dr. Baumgartner was born in Chicago and raised in Lawrence, Kan., where her father taught zoology at the University of Kansas.
She earned bachelor's and master's degrees from the university and was a Rockefeller Research Fellow at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in Munich before winning a Sterling Fellowship to study at Yale, where she took a Ph.D. in immunology and went on to receive an M.D.
Dr. Kolb was born in Worcester, Mass., and graduated in 1958 from Washington University in St. Louis.
Dr. Griffin was born in Brooklyn, was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Hunter College, and held a master's degree from Columbia and a doctorate from New York University.
She was a native New Yorker and graduated from New York University Law School in 1924.
She also taught at the Alliance Francaise in Manhattan, Georgetown University, City College of New York and at the Convent of the Sacred Heart in Greenwich, Conn. Ms. Gehin also wrote for a newspaper syndicate in Paris.
Mrs. Reed, a native of Duluth, Minn., was a graduate of Wells College and held a master's degree from the University of Geneva.
Mrs. Siegel, a 1917 graduate of New York University Law School, passed the bar examination at a time when there were only a handful of women in the profession.
She is survived by a son, Eugene, a certified public accountant in New Rochelle, N.Y.; a daughter, Dr. Irene Thompson, professor emeritus at the University of Florida at Gainesville, and four grandchildren.
      

        Gail Paradise Kelly, a professor of comparative education at the State University of New York at Buffalo, died on Friday at Buffalo General Hospital.
She died of cancer, university officials said.
Dr. Kelly, who received a Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin at Madison, was chairwoman of the Department of Educational Organization, Administration and Policy at the university's Graduate School of Education.
Dr. Kelly, who received a Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin at Madison, was chairwoman of the Department of Educational Organization, Administration and Policy at the university's Graduate School of Education.
A professor of education at SUNY for 16 years, she was the author or editor of 13 books, including such standard texts as "New Approaches to Comparative Education," (University of Chicago Press, 1986) and "Comparative Education" (Macmillan Press, 1982).
In 1983, a retrospective exhibition of her work was presented at the Loeb Student Center at New York University.
She was a member of the visiting committee for the Harvard University Graduate School of Design and a former board member of the American Institute of Graphic Arts.

        Dorothy Wite, a professor at the Hunter-Bellevue Nursing School of the City University of New York, died last Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
and Ph.D. degrees in education from Columbia University.
She previously taught or ran nursing programs at California State University in Sacramento, the Medical College of Georgia in Augusta and at Nova University in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
      
She previously taught or ran nursing programs at California State University in Sacramento, the Medical College of Georgia in Augusta and at Nova University in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
      
She was a native of Northampton, Mass., and a graduate of Vassar College and the University of Chicago, where she earned a master's degree.
Ms. Donovan joined the firm in 1980 after graduating from Boston University Law School.
Mrs. Leiferman was a major contributor to Yeshiva University, and last year, she and her husband, Irwin, gave $1 million to endow the main gallery at the Yeshiva University Museum.
Mrs. Leiferman was a major contributor to Yeshiva University, and last year, she and her husband, Irwin, gave $1 million to endow the main gallery at the Yeshiva University Museum.
She was also a substantial contributor to Hebrew University in Jerusalem and Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa.

        LuEsther T. Mertz, a general partner in Publishers Clearing House who was known for her extensive philanthropy on behalf of the arts and other causes, died yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
Mrs. Mertz, whose maiden name was Turner, was born in Cincinnati and grew up in Williamsport, Pa. She graduated from Syracuse University in 1927 with a degree in library science.
Mrs. Wickens was born in Bellingham, Wash. She was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Washington and held a master's degree from the University of Chicago.
Mrs. Wickens was born in Bellingham, Wash. She was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Washington and held a master's degree from the University of Chicago.
She wrote "The Making of the New Deal -- The Insiders Speak," published by Harvard University Press in 1983.
Ms. Sullivan, an associate professor of journalism at the University of Florida, was also an author and a lawyer.
She went to the University of Florida as the Gannett Distinguished Visiting Professor of Journalism in 1986, and was named associate professor in 1987.
She was born in Seattle, graduated from New York University in 1971 and earned a law degree from Fordham University in 1976.
She was born in Seattle, graduated from New York University in 1971 and earned a law degree from Fordham University in 1976.
She later earned a master's degree in American history at Fordham University.
She also taught at Northwestern University (1964-1974), where she held the title of Melville J. Herskovits Professor of African Affairs; Indiana University (1974-1984) and the University of Florida (1984-1987).
She also taught at Northwestern University (1964-1974), where she held the title of Melville J. Herskovits Professor of African Affairs; Indiana University (1974-1984) and the University of Florida (1984-1987).
She also taught at Northwestern University (1964-1974), where she held the title of Melville J. Herskovits Professor of African Affairs; Indiana University (1974-1984) and the University of Florida (1984-1987).
"
        Dr. Carter graduated from the University of Toronto in 1929.
Ms. Wilson was a graduate of Yale University and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.
Ms. Wilson was a graduate of Yale University and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.
While attending New York University, where she earned a bachelor's degree, she began a four-year anthropological study of black Jews and of followers of Marcus Garvey's Back-to-Africa movement.
Since 1965 Dr. Landes had taught at McMaster University in Hamilton.
Mrs. Brown, whose maiden name was the same as her married name, was born in Pliny, W. Va., and graduated from the University of West Virginia in 1945.
She then enrolled at the university's law school, one of two female students there at the time, and graduated in 1947.
Besides her daughter Pamela, a law student at the University of Tulsa, Mrs. Brown is survived by another daughter, Victoria Anne Hunt of Charleston; a sister, Annabelle Brown of St. Albans, W. Va., and six grandchildren.
      
"
        Ms. Hobhouse was a native of Manhattan who attended the Spence School and earned a bachelor's degree in English with honors at Oxford University.

        Elizabeth Blume Silverstein, one of the first women to practice law in New Jersey, died on Sunday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan.
Miss Kulp held a journalism degree from Florida State University and wrote feature articles for the Miami Beach Tropics in the early 1940's.
She died of lymphoma, said her husband, William R. Ginsberg, a professor of environmental law at Hofstra University Law School.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Mark, an architect in Manhattan, and Joshua, a biologist and a research fellow at Wolfson College, Oxford University.
      
Her husband, Elie Abel, former dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, said she had been in a deep depression and had taken her own life.
A graduate of the University of Maryland, Mrs. Abel was a docent at the California Academy of Sciences in San Francisco and a volunteer at Stanford Medical Center.
"
        At the University of Chicago, from which she graduated in 1936, Miss Loeser studied under the playwright Thornton Wilder, one of her favorite teachers.

        Elizabeth Ulman Rowe, former chairwoman of the National Capital Planning Commission and a leader in urban beautification, died yesterday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington.
Educated at the Kentucky Home School for Girls in Louisville, she later specialized in art history at the University of Pennsylvania, Columbia University and the City University of New York, where she earned a Ph.D. She also studied at the Ecole du Louvre in Paris, and was for a time an instructor in art history at Queens College.
Educated at the Kentucky Home School for Girls in Louisville, she later specialized in art history at the University of Pennsylvania, Columbia University and the City University of New York, where she earned a Ph.D. She also studied at the Ecole du Louvre in Paris, and was for a time an instructor in art history at Queens College.
Educated at the Kentucky Home School for Girls in Louisville, she later specialized in art history at the University of Pennsylvania, Columbia University and the City University of New York, where she earned a Ph.D. She also studied at the Ecole du Louvre in Paris, and was for a time an instructor in art history at Queens College.

        Dr. Margaret K. Chandler, the first female professor at the Graduate School of Business at Columbia University, died on Monday at the Somerset Medical Center in Somerville, N.J. She was 68 years old and lived in Piscataway.
She was a 1944 graduate of the University of Chicago, where she also received a master's degree and a Ph.D. From 1947 to 1965 she was a professor at the University of Illinois.
She was a 1944 graduate of the University of Chicago, where she also received a master's degree and a Ph.D. From 1947 to 1965 she was a professor at the University of Illinois.
She is survived by her husband, Louis Chandler, retired professor of nuclear physics at Rutgers University.
      

        Dorothy Kramer, a Long Island church official, died on Monday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
Miss Lee was born in Knoxville and attended the University of Tennessee before coming to New York, where she studied at the Art Sudents League and at the Traphagen School of Art.
She taught at the University of Arkansas from 1951 to 1971, and then retired, making her home in Santa Fe, N.M.
degree in child psychology from Columbia University.

        Mabel Pickford Jenkins, a retired psychiatric social worker in New York City, died on Thursday at the University Village Retirement Center in Tulsa, Okla. She was 98 years old and had lived in Tulsa since 1984.
She was a voice teacher at McGill University in Montreal.
She graduated from Columbia University, received a master's degree from the Juilliard School in 1960 and continued her studies at the University of Milan in Italy.
She graduated from Columbia University, received a master's degree from the Juilliard School in 1960 and continued her studies at the University of Milan in Italy.

        Norma Magid, a prize-winning writer and a lecturer at the University of Pennsylvania, died on Thursday at her home in West Philadelphia.
Miss Magid joined the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania in 1970.
Correction:  March 20, 1991, Wednesday
        An obituary yesterday about a writer and lecturer at the University of Pennsylvania misstated her given name.
Dr. Sherwin graduated from the medical college at the University of Zurich in 1942 and since 1950 had been a clinical professor of psychiatry at the Cornell University Medical College.
Dr. Sherwin graduated from the medical college at the University of Zurich in 1942 and since 1950 had been a clinical professor of psychiatry at the Cornell University Medical College.

        Margaret Atwood Judson, a historian, educator and author, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Piscataway, N.J. She was 91years old and lived in Highland Park, N.J.
        Dr. Judson was professor emeritus of history at Douglass College of Rutgers University.
She was the author of "The Crisis of the English Constitution" (Rutgers University Press, 1949); "The Political Thought of Sir Henry Vane the Younger" (University of Pennsylvania, 1969); "From Tradition to Political Reality" (Archon Books, 1980); and "Breaking the Barrier: A Professional Autobiography by a Woman Educator and Historian Before the Women's Movement" (Rutgers Univesity Press, 1984).
She was the author of "The Crisis of the English Constitution" (Rutgers University Press, 1949); "The Political Thought of Sir Henry Vane the Younger" (University of Pennsylvania, 1969); "From Tradition to Political Reality" (Archon Books, 1980); and "Breaking the Barrier: A Professional Autobiography by a Woman Educator and Historian Before the Women's Movement" (Rutgers Univesity Press, 1984).
She was a graduate of Vassar College and received an advanced degree from Columbia University.
Her husband, Leon R. Whipple, a professor of journalism at New York University, died in 1964.
Her particular concerns were with Youth Aliyah, which rescues and rehabilitates displaced children, and the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Centr in Jerusalem.
Dr. Kattan, a 1963 Ph.D. graduate of the University of Madrid, taught at the University of Pennsylvania and at Wells College before joining Brooklyn College in 1966.
Dr. Kattan, a 1963 Ph.D. graduate of the University of Madrid, taught at the University of Pennsylvania and at Wells College before joining Brooklyn College in 1966.
For many years, she directed the City University of New York's program abroad at the University of Seville and often took groups of students from the New York metropolitan area to Spain.
For many years, she directed the City University of New York's program abroad at the University of Seville and often took groups of students from the New York metropolitan area to Spain.
Ms. Zausner, who was born in London and grew up in New York, graduated from New York University and worked as an X-ray technician at St. Luke's Hospital.
She graduated from Barnard College and received a master's degree from the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism in 1943.
A graduate of Columbia University with a doctorate in zoology and genetics, Dr. Warren retired in 1971 after working at the National Institutes of Health for 10 years.
Before that, she was executive director of the Cold Spring Harbor Symposium on Quantitative Biology on Long Island and taught biology at Adelphi University, Hofstra University, Cornell University Medical College and Wellesley College.
Before that, she was executive director of the Cold Spring Harbor Symposium on Quantitative Biology on Long Island and taught biology at Adelphi University, Hofstra University, Cornell University Medical College and Wellesley College.
Before that, she was executive director of the Cold Spring Harbor Symposium on Quantitative Biology on Long Island and taught biology at Adelphi University, Hofstra University, Cornell University Medical College and Wellesley College.
She received the Dance Magazine Award in 1980 and the Illinois Gubernatorial Award in 1985, and held honorary degrees from Indiana University, De Paul University and Columbia College of Chicago.
She received the Dance Magazine Award in 1980 and the Illinois Gubernatorial Award in 1985, and held honorary degrees from Indiana University, De Paul University and Columbia College of Chicago.
She was a native of Manhattan and a graduate of George Washington University and the university's medical school.
She was a native of Manhattan and a graduate of George Washington University and the university's medical school.
Dr. DuBois was the Zimurray Professor of Anthropology at Harvard University and Radcliffe College when she retired in 1969.
She received her doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley after extensive ethnographic studies of Indian tribes in the American Northwest.

        Grace Hartley Jenkins Mead, a philanthropist and trustee emeritus of Columbia University's Teachers College, died on Wednesday at her home in Morristown, N.J. She was 95 years old and also had residences in Norfolk, Conn., and St. Croix in the Virgin Islands.
She was born in Morristown, the daughter of George W. Jenkins, president of the family-owned Remington Arms Company, and Helen Hartley Jenkins, a benfactor of Columbia University.
She is survived by two sons, Ernest, a television writer, of Williamsville, Vt., and Arthur of Montclair, N.J., a Rutgers University law professor; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She was a graduate of Bronx High School of Science, Hunter College and Fordham University.
At her death, she was the institute's executive vice president emeritus and executive director of the Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries, a fund-raising and advisory group for the college, which has been a part of the State University of New York since 1951.
She joined the fashion institute in 1949 to help draft the legislation making the five-year-old college part of the State University system.
She graduated from Vassar College in 1932 and received a master's degree from Columbia University Graduate School in 1933.

        Barbara Miller Baxter, a lawyer who specialized in estates and trusts, died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital.
Mrs. Baxter, who was born in New York, was an advertising executive in the 1950's and 1960's after graduating from Cornell University.
She received a law degree from St. John's University in 1973.
A native New Yorker, she was a graduate of the University of Wisconsin.
She was a native of Philadelphia and a journalism graduate of Temple University.
A native of Washington, she earned a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in art at the University of California at Berkeley.
She is survived by her husband, Barry Levine, a partner in the Washington law firm of Dickstein, Shapiro & Morin; a son, Adam Golden Levine, a student at the University of California at Santa Barbara; two daughters, Kiera S. Levine and Surell Golden Levine; her father, Dr. Benjamin E. Golden, a general surgeon, and her mother, Dita Seiden Golden, of Washington, and two sisters, Soma Golden Behr, the national editor of The New York Times, of Manhattan, and Carol Golden Sadeh, a historian and tour guide, of Ein Karem, Israel.
      

        Gladys Marcus, dean of liberal arts at the Fashion Institute of Technology, died on Sunday at New York University Medical Center.
A native New Yorker, she was a graduate of New York University.
from Clark University in Worcester, Mass.

        Coral Lansbury, an author, Victorian scholar and dean of the Graduate School of English at Rutgers University's Camden campus, died on Tuesday at her home in Philadelphia.
" The family was stranded by the Great Depression and Ms. Lansbury graduated from North Sydney Girls High School, a selective institution, and entered the University of Sydney at age 15.
In 1971, after Mrs. Horch and her husband moved to Florida, the museum was closed, and its holdings became the Louis and Nettie Horch Collection at Brandeis University.
She then taught sociology at Hunter College, New York University and the Fashion Institute of Technology.

        Jane Cooper Bland, a teacher of art and art appreciation to young children, died on Friday at Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia.
Bland was born in Boston, grew up in New York, studied at Pratt Institute and earned bachelor's and master's degrees at Columbia University Teachers College.

        Jane Cooper Bland, a teacher of art and art appreciation to young children, died on Friday at Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia.
Bland was born in Boston, grew up in New York, studied at Pratt Institute and earned bachelor's and master's degrees at Columbia University Teachers College.
A native of Milwaukee, Miss Leiser was a graduate of the University of Wisconsin.
She graduated from Pierce Business School in Philadelphia and attended Rutgers University in Camden.
Mrs. Cavert received a bachelor's degree in 1915 at Ohio Weselyan University and a master's at Columbia University, She taught social studies at Ohio Wesleyan, at Women's Union College in Tokyo, Lawrence University in Appleton, Wis., and Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville.
Mrs. Cavert received a bachelor's degree in 1915 at Ohio Weselyan University and a master's at Columbia University, She taught social studies at Ohio Wesleyan, at Women's Union College in Tokyo, Lawrence University in Appleton, Wis., and Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville.
Mrs. Cavert received a bachelor's degree in 1915 at Ohio Weselyan University and a master's at Columbia University, She taught social studies at Ohio Wesleyan, at Women's Union College in Tokyo, Lawrence University in Appleton, Wis., and Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville.
In the 1930's she was a trustee of the Women's College of Yenching University at Beijing, and of Mount Holyoke College.
Dr. Samuel was educated at Cornell University, earning a B.A.
She was an English instructor at Cornell University and at Queens College before joining the faculty of Hunter College in 1944.
She was the author of several books, including "Plato and Milton," and "Dante and Milton: 'The Commedia' and 'Paradise Lost,' " both published by Cornell University Press.
In 1931 she received a doctorate from the University of Frankfurt, where she remained until the Nazis came to power.
She also taught for several years at the Institute for Regional Studies of New York University and at Rutgers University before joining the Harvard faculty.
She also taught for several years at the Institute for Regional Studies of New York University and at Rutgers University before joining the Harvard faculty.
Dr. Curtis received a bachelor's degree at Brooklyn College and a Ph.D. from Columbia University.

        Bennetta Bullock Washington, an educator and a former director of the Women's Job Corps, died Tuesday at Howard University Hospital in Washington.
She graduated from Dunbar High School in Washington and from Howard University, where she receieved her bachelor's and master's degrees.
In 1939 she earned a doctorate from Catholic University.
Dr. Schachter was born in the Bronx, graduated from Barnard College and received a Ph.D. in clinical psychology from the University of Rochester.
She began her career in 1955 as an instructor at Stanford University.
The second novel, "Between the Hills and the Sea" (1971), dealt with labor unions in the 1950's and was republished in 1989 by Cornell University International Labor Relations Press.

        Alice Fetzer Carse, a professor of comparative humanities at the State University of New York at Old Westbury, L.I., died on Wednesday at her home in Greenwich Village.
She traveled extensively in Western Europe and India, lived and studied in Mexico and Nicaragua, and taught English and German at Kangreung National University in Korea in 1985.
She graduated from Bucknell University, received a Master of Divinity degree from Yale University and a doctorate in German literature from New York University.
She graduated from Bucknell University, received a Master of Divinity degree from Yale University and a doctorate in German literature from New York University.
She graduated from Bucknell University, received a Master of Divinity degree from Yale University and a doctorate in German literature from New York University.
She taught at Yale and at Drew University before joining SUNY in 1973.
She is survived by her husband, James Carse, a professor of religion at New York University; her daughter, Alisa, a professor of philosophy at Georgetown University, and two sons, Keene and James, both professional musicians, of Manhattan.
She is survived by her husband, James Carse, a professor of religion at New York University; her daughter, Alisa, a professor of philosophy at Georgetown University, and two sons, Keene and James, both professional musicians, of Manhattan.
Dr. Harley, who was born in New York City, received a bachelor's degree at Barnard College and master's and doctoral degrees at Columbia University.
She taught psychology, pediatrics and psychoanalytic psychology at Johns Hopkins University.
Dr. Loveless, a 1925 graduate of the Stanford University Medical School, was a physician in San Francisco before becoming a research fellow at the Roosevelt Hospital Allergy Clinic in Manhattan in 1934.
Four years later she joined the New York Hospital-Cornell University Medical Center as associate professor of clinical medicine.
Page, a 1932 graduate of Montclair State College, taught English at Park Ridge High School and Fairleigh Dickinson University before joining the staff of the School Boards Association in 1957.
A graduate of Fordham University, she was a member of the Coalition of 100 Black Women, Minority Interchange, Corporate Women's Network and Black Achievers in Industry.
Dr. Roe, who used her maiden name, retired in 1984 as an adjunct professor of psychology at the University of Arizona.
She joined the faculty in 1967, after having taught at Harvard University since 1959.
She received her Ph.D. in 1933 from Columbia University.
She is survived by three stepdaughters, Helen Vishniac, a professor at Oklahoma State University; Joan Burns, a writer, of Williamstown, Mass., and Elizabeth Wurr, a psychologist, of Woodside, Calif.; a brother, Robert of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Pat Oldt of Little Switzerland, N.C.; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Strong graduated from New York University Law School in 1927.
Miss Caulfield, who was a native of West Orange, N.J., attended Columbia University and was a fashion model and a cover girl before she landed ingenue roles on Broadway in the early 1940's.
She is survived by a daughter, Claudette, a concert pianist and a professor of music at the State University of New York at Fredonia, of Manhattan.
      
She was a graduate of Hunter College and did postgraduate work at Columbia University.
While it would be difficult to imagine university students taking to the streets to mourn her, the authorities apparently thought it best not to take any risks.
Mrs. Katz was born in Asbury Park, N.J., and was a graduate of the University of Miami.
Ms. Vogan, who was a member of the Bay Area Writers Workshop, taught creative writing at the University of Oregon.
She also took graduate courses at the New York University School of Business Administration.
Miss Waldron was born in New Canaan, Conn. She graduated from the University of Connecticut and received a master's degree in social work from Catholic University.
Miss Waldron was born in New Canaan, Conn. She graduated from the University of Connecticut and received a master's degree in social work from Catholic University.
Eleven books that followed were written in collaboration with her first husband, Dr. John L. Beatty, a professor of history at the University of California at Riverside, who died in 1975.
She is survived by her second husband, Dr. Carl Uhr, a professor of economics at the University of California at Riverside; a daughter, Alexandra Beatty, and two grandchildren.
      
The family moved to the West Coast, and she attended the University of California at Los Angeles and taught school in Brawley, Calif., while playing small parts at local theaters.

        Sylvia Scribner, a psychologist on the faculty of the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital.

        Sylvia Scribner, a psychologist on the faculty of the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
From 1970 to 1978 she was senior research associate at Rockefeller University.
In addition to her son David, a professor of literature at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, she is survived by another son, John, Centennial Professor of English at Vanderbilt University.
      
Miss Laise, a native of Winchester, Va., was a graduate of American University and received an M.A.
in political science from George Washington University.
She was past president of the Hunter Faculty Club, the Hunter Chapter of the American Association of University Professors and of the Hunter Unit of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
She graduated from Hunter College in 1915 and received a master's degree from Columbia University in 1948.
She was also a familiar figure in companies as diverse as the Paris Opera Ballet, the Stuttgart Ballet, the National Ballet of Holland, Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, Tulsa Ballet Theater and the Dance Corps of the State University of New York at Purchase.
She was born in Tulsa, Okla., graduated from the University of Texas and held a master's degree from the New York School of Social Work of Columbia University.
She was born in Tulsa, Okla., graduated from the University of Texas and held a master's degree from the New York School of Social Work of Columbia University.
Ms. Piper is survived by her husband, E. Digby Baltzell, a professor emeritus professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania and the man who coined the term WASP; two daughters, Eve Baltzell of Boston and Jan C. Baltzell of Philadelphia, and two sisters, Helen Piper Cresswell and Eleanor Piper De La Cour, both of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
      
Ms. Piper is survived by her husband, E. Digby Baltzell, a professor emeritus professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania and the man who coined the term WASP; two daughters, Eve Baltzell of Boston and Jan C. Baltzell of Philadelphia, and two sisters, Helen Piper Cresswell and Eleanor Piper De La Cour, both of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
      

        Dr. Frances G. Dell, a retired English professor at Pace University, died on Sunday in Beverly Hospital in Beverly, Mass.
She died of congestive heart failure, a university spokesman said.
A native of Queens, she graduated from Queens College and held master's degrees from Teachers College, Columbia University and Fordham University, where she also earned a Ph.D. in English.
A native of Queens, she graduated from Queens College and held master's degrees from Teachers College, Columbia University and Fordham University, where she also earned a Ph.D. in English.
At Pace, she also served on the university Senate, moderated the English Honor Society and for many years was supervisor of student teaching.
She taught in speech departments at Roosevelt College in Chicago and Howard University in Washington, as well as Brooklyn College.
She attended Columbia University and New York University.
She attended Columbia University and New York University.
From 1936 to 1939, she attended the University of Pennsylvania, where she concentrated in political science.
She also held a master's in philosophy and a Ph.D. in anthropology from Columbia University.
She was a lecturer in anthropology at Rutgers University and the University of New Hampshire before joining the anthropology department at Sarah Lawrence in Bronxville, N.Y., in 1981.
She was a lecturer in anthropology at Rutgers University and the University of New Hampshire before joining the anthropology department at Sarah Lawrence in Bronxville, N.Y., in 1981.
She received her master's degree from Columbia University in 1959.
In 1990 she was instrumental in establishing the Ralph Mayer Learning Center, successor to the Artists Technical Research Institute, at the Yale University School of Art.
She received a bachelor's degree from the University of Nevada and a master's degree in English from Columbia University.
She received a bachelor's degree from the University of Nevada and a master's degree in English from Columbia University.
She taught high school English in Las Vegas before returning to the University of Nevada as an instructor in 1936.
She also served as assistant dean of women at the university before beginning a new career in 1940 as the principal aide to Senator Pat McCarran, Republican of Nevada, in Washington.
While working for Senator McCarran, who was chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, she received an bachelor of laws degree from George Washington University in 1948 and a doctor of laws degree from the university two years later.
While working for Senator McCarran, who was chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, she received an bachelor of laws degree from George Washington University in 1948 and a doctor of laws degree from the university two years later.
Dr. Abrams received her Ph.D. in education administration from New York University in 1971.
She then won a scholarshipto Yale University, where she earned a Ph.D.
A Guggenheim Fellowship led her to Uppsala University in Sweden and her best-known discovery.
A Public Health Consultant
        During her career Dr. Seibert taught and did research at the University of Chicago and the Sprague Institute in Chicago, and at the Henry Phipps Institute of the University of Pennsylvania.
A Public Health Consultant
        During her career Dr. Seibert taught and did research at the University of Chicago and the Sprague Institute in Chicago, and at the Henry Phipps Institute of the University of Pennsylvania.

        Carol Wilson Trueblood, assistant to the editor of The Washington Monthly, which she helped to found, died Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital.
She was a graduate of Vassar College and of Columbia Law School, and she had received a master's degree in political science from New York University.
Born in New York City and originally named Laura Reichenthal, Miss Riding established herself as an important avant-garde poet in the early 1920's, when she attracted the attention of the Fugitives, a group of American Southern writers centered at Vanderbilt University.

        Patricia Dickenson Cline, an associate director of development for Princeton University, died on Sunday at her home in Princeton Township, N.J. She was 56 years old.
Born in New York, Mrs. Cline received an master's degree in arts education at Rutgers University and studied modern dance at the Martha Graham studio.
At Princeton, she worked on several of the university's recent development projects.

        Rita Greenland, an advertising executive active in Jewish organizations, died on Saturday at New York University Hospital.
A native of New York City, Mrs. Prelinger was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Vassar College who earned her Ph.D. in history at Yale University in 1954.
She also contributed to scholarly journals both in this country and in Germany and had just completed the editing of a book, "Episcopal Woman," to be published next year by the Oxford University Press in New York.
Mrs. Prelinger is survived by her husband, Dr. Ernst Prelinger, a Yale University psychologist; two daughters, Dr. Katherine Holden of Sharon, Conn., and Edith Holden Roth of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; a stepson, Richard Prelinger of New York City; three stepdaughters, Elizabeth A. Prelinger of Washington, Polly Prelinger of San Francisco, and Jane Rothkopf of New York City; and six grandchildren.
      
Ms. Cabrera held honorary doctorates from Denison University in Ohio, Redlands University in California and Manhattan College in New York City.
Ms. Cabrera held honorary doctorates from Denison University in Ohio, Redlands University in California and Manhattan College in New York City.
Later, she returned to campuses to teach literature and creative writing at schools like Sarah Lawrence, Wagner College, Hunter College and the University of Missouri.

        Belinda Mason, a member of the National Commission on AIDS who pleaded with President Bush in a letter in August not to support proposed Federal policies that she said would further stigmatize AIDS sufferers, died this morning at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville.
Her work is in the permanent collections of Columbia University, Brandeis University, New York University, the Boca Raton Museum in Florida, Kean College in New Jersey, and other institutions.
Her work is in the permanent collections of Columbia University, Brandeis University, New York University, the Boca Raton Museum in Florida, Kean College in New Jersey, and other institutions.
Her work is in the permanent collections of Columbia University, Brandeis University, New York University, the Boca Raton Museum in Florida, Kean College in New Jersey, and other institutions.
Mrs. Dryfoos studied at the Columbia University School of Architecture with Oronzio Maldarelli, and privately with Jose de Creeft, as well as at the Art Students League in Manhattan.
She was also on the Creative Arts Award Commission of Brandeis University.
Mrs. Perry, a fifth-generation Harlem resident and a graduate of Bronx Community College and Fordham University, was a teacher for the Lenox Hill Association.
She returned to the United States for two years, working on problems of arms control and disarmament with Prof. Emile Benoit at Columbia University.
For two years, she was a postdoctoral fellow at Cambridge University in England.
In 1977, she received the Irwin Sizer Award for the most significant contribution to education at M.I.T., and in 1979, she held the Chancellor's Distinguished Chair at the University of California, Berkeley, in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering.
In 1985, she was awarded an honorary Doctor of Science degree from Clarkson University.
Besides her father, survivors include her mother, Elizabeth, of Princeton; a daughter, Nina Gold of New York City; twin sons, Ethan Gold, a student at Harvard University, and Ari Gold, a student at Columbia University; a sister, Alexandria (Lucy) Nolan of Silver City, N.M., and two brothers, Charles D. Dilworth of San Francisco and Joseph R. Dilworth Jr. of Bronxville, N.Y.
      
Besides her father, survivors include her mother, Elizabeth, of Princeton; a daughter, Nina Gold of New York City; twin sons, Ethan Gold, a student at Harvard University, and Ari Gold, a student at Columbia University; a sister, Alexandria (Lucy) Nolan of Silver City, N.M., and two brothers, Charles D. Dilworth of San Francisco and Joseph R. Dilworth Jr. of Bronxville, N.Y.
      
Miss Herrmann was born in Manhattan and earned a bachelor's degree from Bryn Mawr College and a master's degree from Columbia University.
She began teaching musical comedy at the University of Southern California in 1971 and at Yale in 1975.
"
        In 1950, she married Gabriele Baldini, a professor of English literature at the University of Rome.

        Elizabeth M. Cahill, wife of William T. Cahill, a former Governor of New Jersey, died on Wednesday at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia after a brief illness.
She had requested that her remains be made available for research at the Alzheimer's Research Center at Duke University in Durham, N.C.
        Mrs. Bohmrich, a daughter of a Foreign Service officer, traveled and studied in Western Europe, focusing on German culture and tradition.
A native of Turin, Ga., she attended a number of schools in Europe, Mexico and the United States, including Columbia University.
Soon after earning a master's degree in social work from the University of Pittsburgh in 1968, she became the counseling director for Planned Parenthood in Western Pennsylvania, based in Pittsburgh.
from Syracuse University.
She received a bachelor's degree in music at Centenary College in Shreveport, La., and studied cello with Horace Britt at the University of Texas in Austin from 1956 to 1957.

        Esther McDonald Lloyd-Jones, a retired professor of education at Teachers College of Columbia University, died on Nov. 25 at her home in Millbrook, N.Y. She was 90 years old.
Professor Lloyd-Jones was an authority in the field of guidance to secondary school pupils and to college and university students.
She earned a bachelor's degree at Northwestern University and master's and doctoral degrees at Teachers College, whose faculty she joined in 1929.
Born in East Weymouth, Mass., she grew up in California and attended the University of California at Berkeley.
Mrs. Kriendler was born in New York City and was a graduate of New York University.
She also contributed to Cornell University Veterinary School in Ithaca, N.Y.

        Eleanor Tufts, a professor of art history at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, died on Dec. 2 at Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas.
She died of cancer, said Eugene Bonelli, the dean of the Meadows School of the Arts at the university.
She was born in Exeter, N.H., and received a master's degree from Harvard and a Ph.D. from the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University.
She had her own radio program on WQXR, made recordings for the RCA Victor label and was on the faculty of Columbia University.
Born in Springfield, Ohio, on July 17, 1898, Berenice Abbott studied briefly at Ohio State University before going first to New York and then, in 1921, to Europe to study sculpture and drawing.
Mrs. Moreland, a native of New York City, graduated from City College and Fordham University, where she earned a master's degree in clinical psychology.
