Mrs. Goldman, a San Francisco native and graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, was a vice president and past president of the San Francisco Symphony and chairwoman of her city's Memorial to the Six Million Victims of the Holocaust.
Besides serving as an attending physician at Roosevelt, she was the chief of the Adult Orthopaedic  Foot Clinic of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center; a co-director of the Combined Foot and Ankle Fellowship at the Hospital for Special Surgery, and a clinical assistant professor of orthopedics at Columbia University's College of  Physicians and Surgeons.
She took up her medical training after the birth of her two children and graduated from Cornell University Medical College in 1977.
She graduated from Ohio State University in 1964, and received a master's degree in  social work at Hunter College in 1993.
She entered Hampton Institute (now Hampton University) in Hampton, Va., intending to become a teacher of home economics, but she also joined the renowned Hampton Choir, with which she toured Europe in 1929.
"
        Her work with the school is recounted in "Dorothy Maynor and the Harlem School of the Arts: The Diva and the Dream" (Edwin Mellen Press, 1993), by William F. Rogers Jr.
        She received honorary doctorates from many schools, including Howard University, Westminster Choir College, Oberlin College, Carnegie-Mellon University and Bennett College in Greensboro, N.C..
"
        Her work with the school is recounted in "Dorothy Maynor and the Harlem School of the Arts: The Diva and the Dream" (Edwin Mellen Press, 1993), by William F. Rogers Jr.
        She received honorary doctorates from many schools, including Howard University, Westminster Choir College, Oberlin College, Carnegie-Mellon University and Bennett College in Greensboro, N.C..
Her "Collected Poems 1945-1990" (University of Arkansas Press, 1995) was praised in December by Robert Richman, the poetry editor of The New Criterion, in a review in The New York Times Book Review.
Her other poetry books are "The Undersea Farmer" (1948), "In the Cold Country" (1954), "Light and Dark" (University Press of New England, 1959), "Looking up at Leaves" (1966), "The Blue Garden" (University Press of New England, 1972), "A Private Signal: Poems New and Selected" (1977) and "Moving" (Elysian, 1983).
Her other poetry books are "The Undersea Farmer" (1948), "In the Cold Country" (1954), "Light and Dark" (University Press of New England, 1959), "Looking up at Leaves" (1966), "The Blue Garden" (University Press of New England, 1972), "A Private Signal: Poems New and Selected" (1977) and "Moving" (Elysian, 1983).
In 1941, she came to the United States, where Teachers College of Columbia University awarded her a bachelor's degree.
Stephen F. Cohen, a Princeton University historian who published a biography  of Bukharin in 1973, met clandestinely with the widow during the Brezhnev era and became a close friend, discovering in the archives and returning to her the  last love letter Bukharin wrote to her, on Jan. 15, 1938, from prison.
The novel is scheduled to be published in English by Columbia University Press later this year.
Born in Menomonie, Wis., she was a philosophy graduate of the University of Wisconsin, from which she received a doctorate in 1932 from the Law School.

        Professor Jean Margaret Maxwell, who helped establish the New York School of  Social Work at New York University in the 1950's and the San Diego State University School of Social Work in the 1960's, died on Feb. 22 at the Casa de Manana retirement community in San Diego.

        Professor Jean Margaret Maxwell, who helped establish the New York School of  Social Work at New York University in the 1950's and the San Diego State University School of Social Work in the 1960's, died on Feb. 22 at the Casa de Manana retirement community in San Diego.
At the time, the California State University system was also creating social work schools at its Sacramento, San Francisco, Fresno and San Jose campuses.
Ms. Maxwell was born in Minneapolis and graduated from the University of Minnesota, where she also did graduate work at the School of Social Work.
She was a life board member of Hebrew University of Jerusalem and a trustee of the American Friends of Hebrew University.
She was a life board member of Hebrew University of Jerusalem and a trustee of the American Friends of Hebrew University.
She was born in Manhattan and was a graduate of Adelphi University.
Born and raised in Pittsburgh, Ms. Cohen graduated magna cum laude from the University of Pittsburgh, and later did postgraduate work at George Washington University.
Born and raised in Pittsburgh, Ms. Cohen graduated magna cum laude from the University of Pittsburgh, and later did postgraduate work at George Washington University.

        Lila Perlstein of Roslyn Heights, L.I., a top bridge player, died yesterday in North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
Mrs. Perlstein was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Cornell University in  1945.
She graduated from the university with a degree in archeology and anthropology.
Recipients of multimillion-dollar gifts from the foundation include the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Junior Museum and educational programs, the Columbia University Graduate School of Business, Cornell University, and Lenox Hill Hospital.
Recipients of multimillion-dollar gifts from the foundation include the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Junior Museum and educational programs, the Columbia University Graduate School of Business, Cornell University, and Lenox Hill Hospital.
But it was as an educator and researcher, first at Teachers College of Columbia University in the 1930's and 40's and after 1953, at the Yale School of Nursing, that Miss Henderson made her greatest contributions to a long-scorned profession.

        Dr. Helene Wickham Koon, an author, scholar of 18th-century dramatic literature and former professor of English at California State University in San Bernardino, died on Feb. 13 at her home in Hollywood.
Dr. Koon was born in Minneapolis, and graduated from the University of Iowa.
She opted for academia, however, and in 1969 earned a doctorate in English at the University of California in Los Angeles.
Born in Philadelphia, she was a 1936 graduate of Bryn Mawr and earned a Ph.D. in zoology at Yale University.
Born in Ridgefield, Conn., she attended Simmons College and the University of Missouri at Columbia.
" In an appreciation in The Irish Times, Maurice Harmon, professor emeritus of Anglo-Irish Literature at University College in Dublin, wrote: "She  drew upon her own experience.

        Marsha Wenk, legal director of the New Jersey chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, which prevailed in cases involving school prayer and a law requiring community notification about the presence of paroled sex offenders, died at New York University Medical Center on March 23.
Ms. Wenk graduated from Rutgers University in 1981 and obtained a law degree  in 1987.
She was a prominent supporter of Bar-Ilan University in Israel.
Her other principal beneficiaries included the United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, the Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center and Yeshiva University's Albert Einstein College of Medicine, where she belonged to the Society of Founders.

        M. Shanara Gilbert, an associate professor of law at the City University of New York Law School at Queens College, was killed on Tuesday in a highway accident in South Africa.
The accident, in which the school's former dean, W. Haywood Burns, also died, occurred when a truck ran a red light near Cape Town and struck the car in which they were riding, university officials said.
Ms. Gilbert, a graduate of Syracuse University in political journalism, was  a founder and co-director of the City University Law School's Defender Clinic, a member of the board of directors of the National Conference of Black Lawyers and past chairwoman of the conference's Section on Criminal Justice.
Ms. Gilbert, a graduate of Syracuse University in political journalism, was  a founder and co-director of the City University Law School's Defender Clinic, a member of the board of directors of the National Conference of Black Lawyers and past chairwoman of the conference's Section on Criminal Justice.
degree from the University of Pennsylvania School of Law in 1980, she worked as a staff lawyer with the District of Columbia Public Defender Service and the Massachusetts Committee for Public Counsel Services.
In 1993, as a consultant to the Ford Foundation, she wrote a report on the status of university legal aid clinics in South Africa.

        Erma Bombeck, who mined the everyday lives of housewives and parents for the  mother lode of humor that transformed her into one of the country's most popular newspaper columnists and a best-selling author, died yesterday at the University of California at San Francisco Medical Center.
She became a reporter there after graduating from the  University of Dayton with a bachelor of arts degree in 1949, the same year she married William Bombeck, a sportswriter who became a high school principal.
Ms. O'Donnell was born in Berkeley, Calif. After earning a degree in film making from San Francisco State University, she worked as an editor in Vienna on the television mini-series "Holocaust" and on German feature films.
She received full scholarships from a county  school and from the University of London, where she won honors studying French and 18th-century literature in an accelerated course, with secretarial classes for a backup.
She continued to support the performing arts, giving $10 million to Southern Methodist University in Dallas for the Greer Garson Theater, which opened in September 1992.
A graduate of Western College for Women in Oxford, Ohio, Mrs. Keehn received  a master's degree from Columbia University in 1946.
" She taught voice and piano at Wesleyan University from 1972 to her death.
"
        An award jury that included Henri Peyre of Yale University chose Miss Frenaye to receive the 1951 Denyse Clairouin Memorial Award for distinguished translation of French into English for her renderings of the books "The Plunderers," by Georges Blond, and "Renee," by J. H. R. Lenormand.
For several years, she taught courses related to aging at Yeshiva University.
Mrs. Smith was born in Milbank, S.D., and received a degree in geology from the University of Washington in 1917.

        Dr. Henriette R. Klein, clinical professor emeritus of psychiatry at Columbia University and a pioneer in the study of childhood schizophrenia, died on May 11 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She was born in Evanston, Ill., and graduated  from the University of Chicago in 1924.
She received her medical degree from the University of Maryland in 1932 and trained at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute from 1935 to 1940.
Dr. Klein organized psychiatric training centers at Emory University, New York University and the Long Island College of Medicine, which became the Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New York.
Dr. Klein organized psychiatric training centers at Emory University, New York University and the Long Island College of Medicine, which became the Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New York.
Dr. Klein organized psychiatric training centers at Emory University, New York University and the Long Island College of Medicine, which became the Downstate Medical Center of the State University of New York.
Working summers, she graduated from Eastern Michigan University in Ypsilanti in 1938 with a degree in physical education.
Ms. Meredith-Jones received a master's degree from Columbia University and taught at Teachers College of Columbia University and the New School for Social  Research.
Ms. Meredith-Jones received a master's degree from Columbia University and taught at Teachers College of Columbia University and the New School for Social  Research.
"
        With her husband, John L. Loeb, an investment banker, and other family members, Mrs. Loeb was a benefactor of Barnard College (where Adele Lehman Hall  was named for her mother), of Central Park (the Loeb Boathouse and the Children's Zoo), Lewisohn Stadium (which bore her maternal grandfather's name),  the Loeb Student Center at New York University and the Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center at Vassar.
Mrs. Loeb was also a trustee of Vassar and Cornell University and an overseer of the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
Born in Decatur, Ga., Mrs. Woodward graduated from Mount Holyoke College in  1971 and earned a master's degree in history at the University of Delaware in 1973.
When she resigned after two years to become director of communications at the University of Pennsylvania, she tossed off a tart farewell: doing creative work  for the city-owned stations was, she said, "a little like trying to cook a gourmet meal with glue on the kitchen floor.
She then became a  visiting professor of journalism at New York University, a post she held until her death.
She earned a bachelor's degree in literature from Reed College in 1951 and a master's degree in literature from Teachers College of Columbia University in 1952.
She suffered a long illness, according to the University of California at Berkeley, where she retired as professor emerita in 1977.
She, along with a handful of graduate students, was trained at Yale University by Edward Sapir, the legendary linguist and anthropologist, and became a force behind the Survey of California Indian Languages.
She received a degree in comparative linguistics at the University of Chicago in 1931 and a Ph.D. at Yale in 1935.
Her books in print include "Language, Culture and History: Essays" (Stanford  University Press, 1978), "Prehistory of Languages" (Mouton, 1978), "Thai Vocabulary" and "Thai System of Writing" (Spoken Language Service).
Mrs. McHugh graduated in 1950 with one of the first groups to finish the writer's program at the University of Iowa.
She earned a master's degree in library science at Columbia University the next year.
From 1953 to 1968, Mrs. Kirk, the wife of a former Columbia University president, Dr. Grayson L. Kirk, organized a number of exhibitions on the campus  and at New York galleries to benefit art scholarships.
She was born in Hillsboro, Ohio, studied art in Philadelphia and attended the University of Wisconsin.
Ms. Price, a dentist's daughter from Charleston, W.Va., was a precocious student who entered Ohio University at 16 and later studied dentistry at Northwestern University before dropping out of school to pursue a writing career.
Ms. Price, a dentist's daughter from Charleston, W.Va., was a precocious student who entered Ohio University at 16 and later studied dentistry at Northwestern University before dropping out of school to pursue a writing career.
Ms. Wallenda, who was 17 and an utter novice on the high wire in 1985 when she married into the Wallenda family, famous for its aerialists and acrobats, gave her final performance on March 4, 1990, at Mansfield University.
She had already lost her leg and was facing cancer surgery for the third time in four years when a roaring crowd responded to her courage and skill at the event, sponsored by the university to help defray her medical expenses.
She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Texas in 1925, moved to New York and became a reporter at The Herald Tribune only to find herself relegated to "women's news.
"
        Finding teaching more compatible, she received a master of arts degree at Columbia University and a Ph.D. in psychology, education and social work at the  University of Pennsylvania in 1943.
"
        Finding teaching more compatible, she received a master of arts degree at Columbia University and a Ph.D. in psychology, education and social work at the  University of Pennsylvania in 1943.
There, as an official in the Ministry of Education, she helped build the English-language University College into what became Addis Ababa University.
There, as an official in the Ministry of Education, she helped build the English-language University College into what became Addis Ababa University.
Mrs. Maurer, a native of New York City, graduated in economics from the University of North Carolina and earned a master's degree in general studies at  Yale.
She also attended the Wharton School of Executive Education at the University of Pennsylvania.
After doing her undergraduate work at Boston University, she earned  a master's degree in musicology at Columbia University in 1946, and studied composition privately with Lazare Saminsky and Roger Sessions.
After doing her undergraduate work at Boston University, she earned  a master's degree in musicology at Columbia University in 1946, and studied composition privately with Lazare Saminsky and Roger Sessions.
She taught composition at Brooklyn College, City College of the City University of New York, the Manhattan School of Music and the Jewish Theological Seminary, and it  was at the seminary that she earned her doctorate in composition -- after nearly a quarter century as a teacher -- in 1970.
Her father, Dr. Eliot  R. Clark, was later a professor of anatomy at the University of Pennsylvania.
She is survived by a brother, Douglas N. Clark, a professor of mathematics at the University of Georgia in Athens.
      
Although she once described herself as "just a garden-variety English major" at the University of Michigan, Ms. Howard had been bitten by the journalism bug  as a girl in Winnetka, Ill.
After graduating from the University of Michigan, where she was a reporter and editor on the campus newspaper, she came to Manhattan at the age of 21 as an editorial trainee at Time-Life.
Between books, she taught writing at several universities, including the University of Georgia and Yale.
She participated in the Writers Workshop at the  University of Iowa.
She earned a bachelor's degree in philosophy at Marymount College in Tarrytown, N.Y., in 1968 and a master's degree in forestry at the University of Vermont in 1979.
She also received a master's degree in public administration from Harvard University in 1991.
The cause was breast cancer, according to the University of California at San Francisco, where she was a faculty member.
She earned a bachelor's degree in bacteriology at the University of California at Berkeley in 1964 and a medical degree at the University of Southern California at Los Angeles in 1971.
She earned a bachelor's degree in bacteriology at the University of California at Berkeley in 1964 and a medical degree at the University of Southern California at Los Angeles in 1971.
She joined the faculty of the University of California at San Francisco in 1975 and became a full professor in 1989.
She is survived by her husband, David, who is also a medical professor at the university, a son, Kevin, and a daughter, Susan, all of San Francisco, and her mother, Ruth Blitman, of Novato, Calif.
      
Mrs. Weiner, a native of Brooklyn, attended the University of Georgia.
After their marriage in 1941, she became active in every aspect of equestrian affairs, breeding show and steeplechase champions, leading a drive to ban the use of performance-enhancing drugs and receiving numerous honors for her work, including an honorary degree from the University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine.
She created the dance department at Southern Utah University in 1982, and was later named its distinguished artist in residence.
Although Ms. Mann retired in  1992, she choreographed the university's historical pageant "The West: America's Odyssey" this year.
She graduated from Fordham University.
She founded the Delza School of Tai Chi Chuan at Carnegie Hall in 1954 and later taught at schools including the State University of New York at Purchase,  the Actor's Studio and the University of Hawaii.
She founded the Delza School of Tai Chi Chuan at Carnegie Hall in 1954 and later taught at schools including the State University of New York at Purchase,  the Actor's Studio and the University of Hawaii.
Ms. Delza also published a record album on teaching tai chi and wrote four books on tai chi and modern dance, including "The Tai Chi Chuan Experience," published this year by the State University of New York Press.
Ms. Holmes, who was born in Rochester, graduated from the State University College at Purchase, N.Y., in 1982, where she studied urban affairs and public policy.
She was a Root-Tilden Scholar at the New York University School of Law and received a Doctor of Laws degree in 1986.
Ms. Holmes was on a leave of absence from Legal Aid so she could accept an appointment for the fall semester at Columbia University, where she was to be a  visiting faculty member at the School of Law.
Waiting to meet the age requirement for admission to New York University Law School, she spent a year studying economics, banking and accounting at City College.

        Bertha Schizer, who started working as a pharmacist in Brooklyn when that profession was dominated by men, died on July 3 at University Hospital in Brooklyn.
She graduated from Long Island University College of Pharmacy in 1918 and was active in her profession for more than 50 years.
She was on the boards of Polytechnic University of Brooklyn and the Center for Italian Studies  at Columbia University.
She was on the boards of Polytechnic University of Brooklyn and the Center for Italian Studies  at Columbia University.
Mrs. Tyler was born in Cape Girardeau, Mo., graduated from the University of Missouri and earned a master's degree in English and education at Cornell University.
Mrs. Tyler was born in Cape Girardeau, Mo., graduated from the University of Missouri and earned a master's degree in English and education at Cornell University.
She also wrote three books on the artist: "Kandinsky and Old Russia: The Artist as Ethnographer and Shaman," (Yale University Press, 1995); "Kandinsky in Munich, 1896-1914," the catalogue for the Guggenheim exhibition, and "Kandinsky in Munich: The Formative Jugendstil Years," (Princeton University Press, 1979).
She also wrote three books on the artist: "Kandinsky and Old Russia: The Artist as Ethnographer and Shaman," (Yale University Press, 1995); "Kandinsky in Munich, 1896-1914," the catalogue for the Guggenheim exhibition, and "Kandinsky in Munich: The Formative Jugendstil Years," (Princeton University Press, 1979).
Besides being a research professor at Syracuse University, Mrs.  Weiss was also a Getty scholar from 1989 to 1990.
and Ph.D. degrees at Syracuse University.
She taught courses on modern art at colleges and universities across the country, including Cornell University and Columbia University.
She taught courses on modern art at colleges and universities across the country, including Cornell University and Columbia University.
After retiring, she taught briefly at several other colleges and universities, including the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
She studied at the Washington Square College of New York University while being paid for grading papers and exams at the education school at New York University.
She studied at the Washington Square College of New York University while being paid for grading papers and exams at the education school at New York University.
In 1929, she married Harvey W. Zorbaugh, a university faculty member who became chairman of the department of educational sociology.
She earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Illinois, where she studied journalism.
She earned a master's degree at  the School of Social Work of Columbia University.
Majoring in economics, she received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Pittsburgh before graduating from its law school.
Miss Cousins was born in Munday, Tex., and earned a bachelor's degree in English at the University of Texas at Austin in 1926.
She earned her law degree from Fordham University in 1977.

        Barbara Srenco Brier, a former world bridge champion, died yesterday in Allegheny University Hospitals Center City in Philadelphia.
She was born in Philadelphia and graduated from Cornell University.
A native of Vienna, she graduated from Mount Holyoke in 1943, received a Master of Business Administration degree from New York University in 1946 and a doctorate in education in 1971.
She was later appointed an assistant dean and associate professor of educational administration at New York University.
The daughter of Ulysses Grant Shipe, a bank president in Huntington, W.Va., and Bertha Woody Shipe, a homemaker, Ms. East was educated at Marshall University in Huntington, where she received a bachelor's degree in history in 1943.
She was on the dance faculty at Princeton University from 1975 to 1985.
Virginia Corwin, who was born and raised in East Orange, N.J., graduated from Wellesley College, Union Theological Seminary and Yale University, where she received a doctorate in history in 1937 after studying under Robert Calhoun, Roland Bainton and Richard Niebuhr.
''Her generation was involved in the forming and shaping of a whole new field of study, especially for liberal arts colleges, that changed the focus of study from normative Christianity to a whole range of religions,'' said Diana L. Eck, a professor of comparative religion and Indian studies at Harvard University, who took Dr. Corwin's class at Smith and became a lifelong friend.
Dr. Broverman received a doctorate in psychology from Clark University in Worcester in 1961.
Dr. Broverman went on to be an associate professor at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center, becoming director of the psychology service in 1980.
A senior instructor in the Writers Extension Program at the University of California at Los Angeles from 1973, Mrs. Livingston was the poet-in-residence for the Beverly Hills Unified School District from 1966 to 1984 and the author of the critical texts ''The Child as Poet: Myth or Reality'' and ''Poem-Making: Ways to Begin Writing Poetry.
Mrs. Ruppe attended Marymount College in Tarrytown, N.Y., and Marquette University in Milwaukee.
She studied dance at New York University and at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn.
        Ms. Gudde danced with Anna Sokolow and in 1968 formed a company in New York City called Gudde Dancers that was drawn from her dance students at the Julia Richmond High School in Manhattan.
Judge Nies, a native of Birmingham, Ala., graduated from the University of Michigan in 1945 and, three years later, from Michigan Law School.
Born in Budapest, Dr. Telkes received a doctorate in physical chemistry at the University of Budapest, where she started her career as an instructor.
Later, she carried out research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, New York University and the University of Pennsylvania, among others.
Later, she carried out research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, New York University and the University of Pennsylvania, among others.
She retired in 1977 as a senior scientist at the University of Delaware but remained active as a consultant until about three years ago.
She grew up in New York City, and studied chemistry at Columbia University while at the same time studying the piano and composition at the Institute of Musical Art, the predecessor of the Juilliard School.
She also earned a music degree at New York University and a master of arts degree at Columbia.
She was 84 and lived in Homestead, Fla.
        Mrs. Morton had been critically injured in an automobile accident on Aug. 28, said officials at the University of Miami, where she was a professor for about four decades until retiring in 1993.
''She was the poison plant center'' in South Florida, said Lawrence Kaplan, an emeritus professor of botany at the University of Massachusetts at Boston and editor of the journal of the Society of Economic Botany, which Mrs. Morton helped found.
''She used to get mail by the pound from people all over the world,'' said Dr. Robert Kelley, associate chairman of the department of mathematics and computer science at the University of Miami, who knew Mrs. Morton for more than 20 years.
The work attracted the attention of the president of the University of Miami, Bowman Foster Ashe, who offered them jobs as professors.

        Agnes Mongan, the first woman to be a curator and then the first to be a director at the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University in Cambridge, Mass., died on Sunday at a hospital in Cambridge.
The daughter of a blue-collar worker from Auburn, Mass., who had to hold two jobs to support his family in the Depression, Mrs. Noyce was majoring in English at Tufts University in the early 1950's and dreaming of becoming a writer when she signed on as costume director of a summer theatrical production and caught the eye of one of the cast members, a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology named Robert N. Noyce.
Among other things, she built a golf course for the town of Bremen, gave lavishly to the Portland Museum of Art, the Maine Maritime Museum and the University of Maine.
1  source of stress,'' said Rihachi Iizuka, a prominent fertility specialist at Keio University.
Dr. Squire retired in 1993 as Distinguished Service Professor of Radiology at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn.
Born in Washington, she received a bachelor's degree from George Washington University and a degree in 1940 from the Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania, now the Medical College of Pennsylvania.
After completing her residency in 1945 and having a practice in Syracuse, she joined the faculty of the University of Rochester and received a grant to write a radiology textbook for medical students.
In 1966, she began teaching part time at Massachusetts General Hospital and at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, now the State University of New York Science Center.
She received awards from the Radiological Society of North America, the Association of University Radiologists and the Regional Conference on Women in Medicine.
Chiriaeff are the Governor General's Medal of the Order of Canada, the Governor General's Award for the Performing Arts, the Denise Pelletier Award for the Performing Arts and honorary doctorates from McGill University, the University of Montreal and the University of Quebec.
Chiriaeff are the Governor General's Medal of the Order of Canada, the Governor General's Award for the Performing Arts, the Denise Pelletier Award for the Performing Arts and honorary doctorates from McGill University, the University of Montreal and the University of Quebec.
Chiriaeff are the Governor General's Medal of the Order of Canada, the Governor General's Award for the Performing Arts, the Denise Pelletier Award for the Performing Arts and honorary doctorates from McGill University, the University of Montreal and the University of Quebec.
Ms. Carlin, a native of Maywood, Neb., who graduated from the University of Nebraska and received a master's in social work there, married right after college and began raising a family, first in Atlanta and later in Houston.
Dr. Jones, who was the first woman to head a department in the School of Medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, died of cancer, her family said.
''It was a positive line of investigation with the hope that some kind of cancer therapy would result,'' said Dr. Thomas Traut, a colleague at the university.
Dr. Jones was born in LaGrange Park, Ill., and earned a bachelor's degree in biochemistry from the University of Chicago in 1944.
She did graduate work at Yale University, receiving a doctorate in 1951.
After leaving Massachusetts General in 1957, she was a professor at Brandeis University until 1966.
She became an associate professor at North Carolina that year, left in 1971 for a seven-year stint at the University of Southern California and then returned to North Carolina as chairwoman of the department of biochemistry and nutrition at the medical school.
Mrs. Mantell received a bachelor's degree from Barnard College and a master's degree in social work from Columbia University.

        Laura Epstein, an educator in social work who was retired from the University of Chicago faculty, died on Sept. 18 at her home in Chicago.
Professor Epstein retired in 1985 after 18 years as an instructor and professor in the university's School of Social Service Administration.
Born in Chicago, she received a bachelor's degree in psychology in 1934 from the University of Chicago and a master's degree in 1936 from its School of Social Service Administration.
She taught at the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, at Barnard College and at the State University of New York at Brockport before joining the dance faculty at Wesleyan University in 1983.
She taught at the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, at Barnard College and at the State University of New York at Brockport before joining the dance faculty at Wesleyan University in 1983.
She taught at the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, at Barnard College and at the State University of New York at Brockport before joining the dance faculty at Wesleyan University in 1983.
At the time of her death, she was an associate professor of dance and women's studies at the university.
She earned a master's degree in psychology at New York University and worked as a researcher in the Department of Psychiatry at New York University Medical Center until her illness forced her to retire in 1992.
She earned a master's degree in psychology at New York University and worked as a researcher in the Department of Psychiatry at New York University Medical Center until her illness forced her to retire in 1992.
She was born in Brooklyn, graduated from Brooklyn College and earned a master's degree at Columbia University.

        Mimi Coleman Thompson, an officer and past board chairwoman of Planned Parenthood of New York City, who also had long associations with Hofstra University and New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died on Wednesday at her home in Old Brookville, L.I.
She taught at Stanford for a while before coming to New York and beginning a part-time career as a teacher of creative writing, first at Columbia and later at New York University.
Dr. Penrose, whose doctorate was from Johns Hopkins University, retired in 1978 as a professor at the University of London's School of Oriental and African Studies, where she concurrently headed the school's economics department.
Dr. Penrose, whose doctorate was from Johns Hopkins University, retired in 1978 as a professor at the University of London's School of Oriental and African Studies, where she concurrently headed the school's economics department.
Jay B. Barney, a professor of management at Ohio State University, writing in a management journal last year, called it a seminal work about ''the competitive implications of a firm's internal strengths and weaknesses.
''
        Dr. Penrose's interest in oil originated in the late 1950's, when she was a visiting professor at the University of Baghdad.
''
        Edith Tilton was born in Los Angeles and received a bachelor's degree in 1936 from the University of California at Berkeley.
Sir Alec wrote that after a campaign she and her husband, Ernest F. Penrose, a British-born economist and writer, ''conducted in support of Owen Lattimore, a professor accused of un-American activities,'' the couple ''fell afoul of McCarthy and were more or less exiled, first to the Australian National University in Canberra and then to Baghdad University.
Sir Alec wrote that after a campaign she and her husband, Ernest F. Penrose, a British-born economist and writer, ''conducted in support of Owen Lattimore, a professor accused of un-American activities,'' the couple ''fell afoul of McCarthy and were more or less exiled, first to the Australian National University in Canberra and then to Baghdad University.
She was born in Ann Arbor, Mich.,  and graduated from Wellesley College in 1932 and Cornell University Medical College in 1936.
Mrs. Farkas, who lived in Palm Beach, Fla., had been staying with Mr. Farkas and his wife, Carol, a nurse, in Manhattan since her release two weeks ago from the New York University Medical Center, where she had been treated for a heart ailment.
''
        In contrast to Ambassador Perle Mesta, the Washington socialite who arrived in Luxembourg in 1949 with flamboyant ways and gala parties that inspired the Broadway musical ''Call Me Madam,'' Mrs. Farkas, who held a doctorate in sociology from Columbia University and a doctorate in education from New York University, maintained a low profile.
''
        In contrast to Ambassador Perle Mesta, the Washington socialite who arrived in Luxembourg in 1949 with flamboyant ways and gala parties that inspired the Broadway musical ''Call Me Madam,'' Mrs. Farkas, who held a doctorate in sociology from Columbia University and a doctorate in education from New York University, maintained a low profile.
They were married in 1928, but not until she graduated from New York University.

        Fritz and Ingeborg Kahlenberg, exiled Germans who met during World War II as members of Hidden Camera, a Dutch Resistance group that documented the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands, died this month at New York University Hospital within two weeks of each other.
Ms. Wanderman, a native of Brooklyn, graduated from Cornell University and had a degree in metabolic dietetics from New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
Along the way, she graduated from Empire State College and got a master's in labor studies from Rutgers University.
''
        Ms. Bessay was born in Akron, Ohio, received a degree from Akron University and also studied at Radcliffe College.
      
Later, back in her ground-floor apartment on Claremont Avenue near Columbia University, she resumed her routine of writing from 9 in the morning to 1 in the afternoon, five days a week.
''
        His expertise was acquired; he held a doctorate from Columbia University, taught there in the company of brilliant colleagues and challenged students who went on to produce some of the country's finest literature and criticism.

        Marion Durham Cuyjet, a pioneering teacher of black dancers, died on Oct. 22 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.
From 1958 into the 1970's, Mrs. Cuyjet was on the dance faculty at Maryland State College (now the University of Maryland-Eastern Shore) and also taught at Delaware State College in Dover, and Cheney State University in Cheney, Pa. She closed her studio in 1971 and trained as a movement therapist, working at the Philadelphia State Hospital for 11 years.
From 1958 into the 1970's, Mrs. Cuyjet was on the dance faculty at Maryland State College (now the University of Maryland-Eastern Shore) and also taught at Delaware State College in Dover, and Cheney State University in Cheney, Pa. She closed her studio in 1971 and trained as a movement therapist, working at the Philadelphia State Hospital for 11 years.

        Barbara C. Salken, a professor at the Pace University School of Law in White Plains, died on Oct. 17 at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla.

        Ruth Waxman, who played a prominent role in Conservative Judaism, died on Oct. 18 at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
She graduated from the University of Chicago, from which she also received a doctorate in comparative literature.
She taught literature there and at Adelphi University, at the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University and, most recently, at the State University at Stony Brook, L.I., and at Queens College.
She taught literature there and at Adelphi University, at the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University and, most recently, at the State University at Stony Brook, L.I., and at Queens College.
She taught literature there and at Adelphi University, at the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University and, most recently, at the State University at Stony Brook, L.I., and at Queens College.
She studied at the New England Conservatory of Music and Northeastern University.
Ms. Shostak relayed her findings in a 1981 book, ''Nisa: The Life and Words of a !Kung Woman'' (Harvard University Press), illustrated with her photographs.
Despite the contrast between their social backgrounds, author and subject managed to share emotions and to bridge the gulf of geography and social background, said Ms. Shostak's husband, Dr. Melvin Konner, who is the Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Anthropology and an associate professor of psychiatry and neurology at Emory University.
Ms. Shostak wrote the book while she and her husband lived in Cambridge, Mass., where she was an associate of the Peabody Museum of Archeology and Ethnology at Harvard University.
Beginning in 1983, both were associated with Emory University, where she was an adjunct assistant professor of anthropology.
Several of her books are still in print, and six of her early novels were recently republished by the University of Nebraska Press.
She studied for three years at Nebraska Wesleyan University.
A graduate of the Francis Parker School in Chicago and Mills College in Oakland, Calif., she earned a master's degree in social work at the University of Chicago and went to work for several public and private agencies.
The daughter of immigrant shopkeepers from Romania, Dr. Bernard, whose original name was Ravitch, was born in Minneapolis, attended the University of Minnesota, married her college sweetheart and followed her husband from job to job, serving variously as his assistant and collaborator while holding a series of lower-level jobs, and not beginning her own academic career in earnest until she was in her 40's, an age when a woman's children are generally old enough to fend for themselves.
Dr. Bernard did not obtain her own doctorate, from Washington University in St. Louis, until she was 32, and did not begin her teaching career, at the Lindewood College for Women, near St. Louis, until she was 37.

        Dr. Roma Gans, an emeritus professor of education at Teachers College of Columbia University who wrote several classic texts on teaching children to read, died on Oct. 4 at the Springside Nursing Home in Pittsfield, Mass.
Cloud, Minn., graduated from Columbia University and in 1929 joined the faculty at Teachers College, from which she received a Ph.D. in 1940.
She was a graduate of the University of Chicago and obtained a master's degree in library science from Columbia University.
She was a graduate of the University of Chicago and obtained a master's degree in library science from Columbia University.
Among the chief beneficiaries were Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine, where she was a board member of the national women's division.
She taught modern dance for 25  years at such places as the Neighborhood Playhouse, the School of American Ballet and the 92d Street Y  and was a master teacher at New York University and other colleges in and around New York.
The book, ''A Bird's Eye View,'' will be published next year by the University of Pittsburgh Press.
Ms. Blaine was born in Richmond, Va., in 1922, and first studied at the Richmond School of Art, now part of Virginia Commonwealth University.
She received a bachelor's degree in sociology from Brooklyn College and a master's from the University of Connecticut, then joined the civil rights movement in the summer of 1961.
A native of Cincinnati and a graduate of the University of Cincinnati, she came to New York City as an aspiring poet and settled into a career in publishing instead.
Dr. Hooker, who spent 30 years teaching at the University of California at Los Angeles, began studying homosexual men in the late 1940's, a period in which they were considered maladjusted -- at best -- and generally ignored or anathematized by the medical and mental health professions.
''Her work in the 1950's really provided the framework within which the American Psychiatric Association could rethink its viewpoint,'' said Dr. Richard A. Isay, clinical professor of psychiatry at the Cornell University Medical College.
She earned her bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of Colorado and her Ph.D., in 1932, from Johns Hopkins University.
She earned her bachelor's and master's degrees at the University of Colorado and her Ph.D., in 1932, from Johns Hopkins University.
She is survived by her husband, Chester, former director of the Yale University Press; two daughters, Hilary Mills Loomis of Manhattan and Alley Mills Bean of Los Angeles; a son, Tony Mills of Oakland, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Duschl began her professional career as a member of the dance faculty at Michigan State University, from 1974 to 1977.
She was a biology graduate of the University of California at Riverside, with a master's degree in microbiology from Pennsylvania State University and a doctorate in that specialty from the University of Pennsylvania.
She was a biology graduate of the University of California at Riverside, with a master's degree in microbiology from Pennsylvania State University and a doctorate in that specialty from the University of Pennsylvania.
She was a biology graduate of the University of California at Riverside, with a master's degree in microbiology from Pennsylvania State University and a doctorate in that specialty from the University of Pennsylvania.
It was reprinted by the University of Nebraska Press in 1984.
She was born and reared in Manhattan and received her law degree from Cornell University in 1921.
Holocaust Museum and the National Jewish Coalition and a trustee of Cleveland State University and the Western Reserve Historical Society.
She received the American Jewish Committee's Human Relations Award and the Distinguished Community Service Award from Brandeis University.
She graduated from Case Western Reserve University, where she earned a Ph.D. in guidance and counseling, and lectured in educational psychology at Case Western from 1969 to 1974.
In the 1930's she studied and taught economics and finance in Paris, Geneva, Basel, Boston, the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and Bryn Mawr.
Louise Bates was born in Portland, Me., and received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Maine.
Dr. Ames and Dr. Ilg moved up the hill from the campus and founded the Gesell Institute, unaffiliated with the university, to continue their research.
After obtaining a master's degree in economics in 1932 at the University of Wisconsin, she worked in staff positions at various New Deal agencies.
She graduated from City College and received a master's degree from the Hunter College School of Social Work and a master's in urban affairs from Yale University and Occidental College.

        Miriam Levin Goldberg, who studied underachievement by gifted youths and taught at Teachers College of Columbia University, died on  Nov. 21 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center.
Dr. Fahmy, a professor of clinical psychology at the University of Ain Shams in Cairo for many years, was a founder of the Egyptian Psychological Association and its president from 1972 to 1981.
She studied at the University of London and received a doctorate in psychology from Indiana University in 1953.
She studied at the University of London and received a doctorate in psychology from Indiana University in 1953.
Vartan Gregorian, president of Brown University, who was president of the New York Public Library from 1980 to 1988, said Mrs. Astor ''has given equal attention to janitors and guards as to librarians and curators and the rich and famous.
During the 1980's, she resigned from the boards of Rockefeller University and the Bronx Zoo to work more intensely for the library.
Her philanthropy extended to other educational institutions, including the American University of Beirut, Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash., and Church Divinity School of the Pacific in Berkeley, Calif., all of which she served as a trustee.
Her most recent book was ''Chinese Jade,'' published in 1986 by Oxford University Press in Hong Kong.
She studied Chinese art on her own for 10 years and started a career at the China Institute and the School for Continuing Education at New York University.

        Carol Robbins, a trained musician, educator and co-director of the Nordoff-Robbins Center for Music Therapy at New York University, died on Dec. 12 at her home in Greenwich Village.
degrees in music education at the Crane School of Music at State University College in Potsdam, N.Y., and was certified as a teacher for youngsters with perceptual handicaps.
Mrs. Deely, a native of Manhattan, graduated from Adelphi University and received a master's degree from the Hunter College School of Social Work.
''She was one of the world's great originals,'' said Dr. Alan Walker, an anatomist at Pennsylvania State University who has long excavated fossils with the Leakey family.
Bored by class work and her fellow students, Mary was expelled from two schools and so, with attending a university out of the question, decided to pursue independent studies in drawing and archeology.
At the age of 20, Mary Nicol, a sometime illustrator of stone tools and occasional participant in archeological digs, met Louis Leakey, 10 years her senior, married and an established figure in African archeology with a position at Cambridge University.
It was a discovery by the Leakeys in 1959 that, according to Dr. F. Clark Howell of the University of California at Berkeley, marked ''the beginnings of paleoanthropology in a modern sense.
She received a master's degree from Columbia University.
Dr. Rioch was a professor emeritus of psychology at American University here.
Ms. Yuncker, who was born in Greencastle, Ind., graduated from DePauw University in 1943.
Mrs. Wilson was born in Manhattan and educated at the Dalton School, the University of Wisconsin and Hunter College.
Afflicted with multiple sclerosis, Ms. Jordan died from viral pneumonia as a  complication of leukemia, according to officials of the University of Texas in Austin, where she taught.
Ms. Jordan, the first black elected to Congress from Texas after Reconstruction, retired from the House in 1979 after three terms to teach political ethics at the university's Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, never losing her potent talent for public speaking even from the confines of a wheelchair.
She attended Houston's segregated public schools and graduated magna cum laude with debating honors from the all-black Texas Southern University.
Ms. Jordan received a law degree in 1959 from Boston University and was soon  at practice from her family's dining-room table.
During that summer of the Watergate crisis, she took care to visit the graduates of Howard University  and urge them: "Reaffirm what ought to be.
She was born in Waterbury, Conn., and graduated from the University of Connecticut in 1960.
She served as a trustee of Butler University, the Christian Theological Seminary and Union Theological Seminary.
Her dedication to music led her to help establish the Institute of  Sacred Music at Yale University in 1973.
Her best-known book is her biography "Mozart," which came out in 1932, and has been continuously in print since then, most recently from the University of  Pittsburgh Press.
At age 32, she decided to return to college; her choice this time was the school she later led, New York City Community College in downtown Brooklyn, part of the City University of New York.
Working during the day and going to school at night, she received bachelor's and master's degrees, and a doctorate in human relations, from New York University.
She went on to become dean of instruction at the State University Agricultural and Technical College at Farmingdale, L.I.
Dr. Schwerin was the first woman to be named president of a City University community college and the second to be president  of any of the system's colleges, after Jacqueline G. Wexler of Hunter.

        Clare Lindgren Wofford, director of major gifts at American College in Bryn Mawr, Pa., died yesterday at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.
Mrs. Wofford, a magna cum laude graduate of the University of Minnesota in 1948, joined the staff of the college in 1985 as assistant to the president for  development.
Over the years, she was also associated with the Katherine Gibbs School in Philadelphia, the University of Pennsylvania, where she was director of international seminars, and the Washington council of the African-American Institute.
In addition, she taught at Brooklyn College, SUNY Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn and New York University, from which she had received her master's degree in psychology.
She went to England and received  a Ph.D. from Cambridge University.
She began her career in World War II as a researcher at what is now Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh.
She grew up partly  in Algeria and Indochina, pursued university studies in France -- in Marseilles  and Aix-en-Provence -- received a degree in literature in 1942 and was a schoolteacher for a time.
She was a former trustee of Bard College and the American University in Beirut and served on the New York City Board of Education as a member for District 2 and the Advisory Board for Vocational and Extension Education.
Irene Lowy was born on the Lower East Side and graduated from New York University.
"
        Ms. Williamson was born in Winston-Salem, N.C.She received a bachelor's degree in romance languages from Radcliffe College and a master's degree in dance from New York University.
Ms. LaBrecque was born in Torrington, Conn., on April 28, 1950, and studied at the New England Conservatory of Music and at the State University at Stony Brook.
John J. Stephan, a friend who is a professor of history at the University of  Hawaii, said the manuscript of "Sofiya Petrovna" was passed along and hidden at  a time when its possession would have been tantamount to a death sentence.

        Ruth Freeman Meyer, a philanthropist who attended Syracuse University's School of Management and remained a booster her whole life, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital.
She contributed to Syracuse University for decades, and in 1968 she established the Herbert and Ruth Meyer Endowment Scholarship Fund.
In 1959, at the age of 50, Dr. Eisenstein, who had earned a master's degree in music education at Columbia University's Teachers College, began work for her Ph.D. at the School of Sacred Music of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of  Religion in New York.
Dr. Rudzinska, who was an emeritus professor of parasitology  at Rockefeller University, was 92.
She was born in Dabrowa, Poland, and earned advanced degrees in biology and zoology from the Jagiellonian University in Cracow.
During World War II, she taught at the Jan Kazimierz University in Lvov, and participated in underground  teaching during the Nazi occupation.
Lynn's work as a volunteer nurse's aide at the Neuropsychiatric Institute at the University of California at Los Angeles in the 1950's led her to propose  a program of theatrical therapy.
Miss Barry, who was born in St. Louis and graduated from St. Louis University, started as an editorial assistant at the The New Yorker in 1967 before moving down the street to The Times in 1975.
