She was born in Peoria, Ill., and graduated from the University of Oregon.
She earned her master's degree at Washington University in St. Louis.
In the last 20 years, she also wrote freelance newspaper and magazine articles, many of them for The Times, taught journalism at the University of California at Berkeley and was a consultant to newspapers, among them The Oakland Tribune.
She was a graduate of Boston University and earned a master's degree in fine arts from Sarah Lawrence.
In the last 20 years, she also wrote freelance newspaper and magazine articles, many of them for The Times, taught journalism at the University of California at Berkeley and was a consultant to newspapers, among them The Oakland Tribune.
Dr. Cancogni taught at Harvard and at Queens College in New York and in the Paris program of the University of California at Berkeley.
She earned a bachelor's degree at the University of Wisconsin and a doctorate in comparative literature from Harvard in 1979.
The daughter of a missionary teacher, Miss Wood was born in Nara, Japan, and grew up in Bloomington, Ill. After receiving bachelor's and master's degrees in rhetoric at the University of Michigan, she taught English for four years at Vassar College.
Mrs. Cosnow, who was born in Dinuba, Calif., graduated from the University of California.
But she began teaching voice and directing productions at the State University of New York at Purchase and gave private lessons for several years.
After retiring from the New School, she remained in education as a trustee of the City University of New York.
She was educated at the University of Ottawa and University of Paris.
She was educated at the University of Ottawa and University of Paris.
A retrospective of her career was organized at the University of Missouri at St. Louis in 1989.
Born in Oakland, Calif., Mrs. Edison was a 1935 pharmacy graduate of Rutgers University and earned a master's degree in public health at Columbia University in the 1950's.
Born in Oakland, Calif., Mrs. Edison was a 1935 pharmacy graduate of Rutgers University and earned a master's degree in public health at Columbia University in the 1950's.
She died of heart failure, said her daughter, Julianna A. Mortensen, of Darien, Conn.
        Mrs. McClinton, a native of San Francisco, graduated from Stanford University in 1921 and received a master's degree from Columbia University.
She died of heart failure, said her daughter, Julianna A. Mortensen, of Darien, Conn.
        Mrs. McClinton, a native of San Francisco, graduated from Stanford University in 1921 and received a master's degree from Columbia University.
She was the editor of "The Hound & Horn Letters" (University of Georgia Press, 1982).
Born in Montreal, she moved to Buffalo in 1946 with her husband and earned her master's degree in English at the University of Buffalo.
In 1978, she earned her doctorate from the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
A native of Duluth, Minn., Professor Wilson graduated from Smith in 1924 and earned a doctorate from the University of London in 1927.
In 1969, after her retirement from Smith, she taught at the University of Iowa.
Her work was exhibited in New York, at Yale University and several galleries in Connecticut.
Mrs. Nadelman, formerly Joyce Cavanah, was born in Mount Vernon, Ind., and graduated from Boston University.
At the time of her death, Dr. Clark was an adjunct professor of education at Columbia University Teachers College and an active member of the Columbia Teachers College Alumni Council, of which she was moderator in 1988 and 1989.
She attended the University of Michigan, where Frost was one of her teachers.
She received a bachelor's degree from the University of Toledo.
She was born in Fort Worth and attended Texas Wesleyan University and the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.
She graduated from Bryn Mawr College and earned a doctorate in sociology at the University of Pennsylvania.
She taught at the University of Maryland, George Washington University, New York University and Upsala College.
She taught at the University of Maryland, George Washington University, New York University and Upsala College.
She taught at the University of Maryland, George Washington University, New York University and Upsala College.
She was a visiting scholar at Columbia University and also worked with several other organizations at the United Nations, including Unicef.
Most of her career was at the New York City Hospitals Department, where she was the director of cancer and radiological research, with academic affiliations at New York University.
She also worked at Harvard and Columbia Universities, Lenox Hill Hospital, Rockefeller Institute and the University of Vienna.
Born in Poland, Dr. Goldfeder earned a doctorate in science at the University of Prague in 1923.
In 1922, while completing her degree, she started working at Masaryk University in Brno, Czechoslovakia.

        Dr. Roberta G. Simmons, a sociologist who conducted groundbreaking research into the emotional effects of organ transplants, died Monday at Presbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh.
As a professor of sociology and psychiatry at the University of Minnesota and the University of Pittsburgh, Dr. Simmons was one of the first to study the psychological consequences of organ transplants for both donors and recipients.
As a professor of sociology and psychiatry at the University of Minnesota and the University of Pittsburgh, Dr. Simmons was one of the first to study the psychological consequences of organ transplants for both donors and recipients.
She attended Wellesley College and earned her doctorate in sociology at Columbia University.
"
        Her story began with the high hopes of a young medical student from the University of Warsaw.
Ms. Ozker (pronounced Oscar) was born in Ankara, Turkey, and grew up in Farmington Hills, Mich. After receiving a bachelor's degree in drama from the University of Michigan in 1970, she moved to New York and performed in Off Broadway productions at the Roundabout Theater, the Public Theater and the New Dramatists Guild.
Mrs. Reisman, known as Syd, was born in New York City, graduated from New York University and held a master's degree in library science from Southern Connecticut State College.

        Sally A. Provence, professor emeritus in the Child Study Center and the Pediatrics Department at Yale University, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 76 and lived at Branford.
Born in Wills Point, Tex., she graduated from the Baylor University College of Medicine.
Among her many publications, she is best known for her book "Working with Disadvantaged Parents and Their Children" (Yale University Press, 1983).
In a celebrated moment during the Columbia University protests in 1968, she and Richard Eagan were unofficially married in a seized building.
She taught about them at New York University and at La Guardia, Manhattan Community and Hunter Colleges.
After graduating from Columbia, she earned a master's at New York University in teaching English as a second language.

        Mildred Collins, president of Mildred Collins Inc., a Manhattan-based sales promotion and publicity company, died on Sunday at Tisch Hospital at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
Mrs. Fromer, a graduate of Hunter College, earned a master's degree at Columbia University with a thesis on Herman Melville and the industrial revolution.
A native of Brooklyn and graduate of Brooklyn College, she put herself through New York University Law School at night by working as a legal secretary.
Mrs. Silverstone, who was born Dorothy Littman in Brooklyn, returned to school after her husband's death in 1969, receiving a bachelor's degree from Fordham University in 1984.
She began acting while attending Havergal College, the University of Toronto and the Toronto Conservatory of Music, then formally studied acting under Uta Hagen at the Herbert Berghof Studio in New York City.
She was a 1925 graduate of the University of Wisconsin, and began her career as a journalist.
She was a member of several professional groups and also was an adjunct lecturer in the media arts department at the University of Arizona.
Ms. Sanger was born Sept. 15, 1929, in Hong Kong and attended Smith College before earning a master's degree in public law and government at Columbia University.

        Julia Jones-Pugliese, who took up fencing as a New York University student in 1927 and five years later began a 60-year career as one the nation's premier coaches, died on Saturday after coaching Hunter College's men's team at a meet at St. John's.
Mrs. Goodman, who was born and educated in Chicago, graduated in 1930 from the University of Chicago.
The State University of New York's College of Optometry in Manhattan named its Institute of Vision Research in the couple's honor.
A native of Clarksboro, N.J., she graduated from Bucknell University and received a doctorate at Columbia.
She taught there and at New York University.
Professor Miller was best known for translations of Sanskrit literature, including "The Bhagavad-Gita: Krishna's Counsel in Time of War" (Bantam Books and Columbia University Press, 1986).

        Dr. Alice Ettinger, who helped to bring new X-ray techniques to diagnose gastrointestinal illness to the United States and taught radiology for five decades at the Tufts University School of Medicine, died on April 14 at the Norwood Retirement and Nursing Home in Norwood, Mass.
She received her medical degree from the Albert Ludwig University in Freiburg, Germany, in 1924 and went on to a residency at the Charite Hospital of Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin.
She received her medical degree from the Albert Ludwig University in Freiburg, Germany, in 1924 and went on to a residency at the Charite Hospital of Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin.
Dr. Ettinger's efforts also led to one of the earliest formal training programs for X-ray technologists, at Northeastern University.
Her work was also shown at many galleries, at Tufts University, and at the Metropolitan Opera House and Avery Fisher Hall.
Mrs. Lambert served on the boards of the Pierpont Morgan Library, Princeton University Library and Art Museum, and the University of Pennsylvania, among others.
Mrs. Lambert served on the boards of the Pierpont Morgan Library, Princeton University Library and Art Museum, and the University of Pennsylvania, among others.

        Tess Cogen, a lawyer, psychotherapist and college professor, died on Thursday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington.
She taught family life and sex education at Pace University for nine years before becoming professor emeritus.
She earned a bachelor of laws degree from the Brooklyn Law School of St. Lawrence University in 1925.
Two years later, she received a master's degree in psychology from Columbia University's Teachers College.
A native of Clarksboro, N.J., she graduated from Bucknell University and received a doctorate at Columbia.
She taught there and at New York University.
A native of the city, she graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Barnard College in 1934 at the age of 18 and earned a master's degree in philosophy at Columbia University a year later.
She received her medical degree in 1939 from New York University College of Medicine and was an intern at Bellevue Hospital.
She also served as a vice president of the board of governors of the New York University College of Medicine Alumni Association.
"
        Born in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Ms. Roberts attended the University of New Brunswick and later was a reporter for The Fredericton Daily Mail.
Ms. Roberts became at familiar figure at the Pennsylvania State University, where she organized poetry discussions and readings.
She graduated from George Washington University and received a master's degree from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
She graduated from George Washington University and received a master's degree from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
Mrs. Toney was born in Manhattan and studied at the New Theater School, Columbia University and the New School for Social Research.

        Sylvia A. Boone, a scholar of African and women's art and the first black woman to be granted a tenured professorship at Yale University, died on Tuesday at her home on campus.
Next she studied at the University of Ghana, where she became friendly with visiting black Americans, including Malcolm X, Maya Angelou and W.E.B.
She attended Cornell University for a year but dropped out to become an actress.
degrees at Bryn Mawr College and held a Ph.D. from Harvard University.
She was born in Orford, in eastern Suffolk, studied at Edinburgh University and worked in publishing until "The Bridge" came out.
"
        Motley created its first costumes for "Romeo and Juliet," directed by John Gielgud at Oxford University, and the company soon made its mark with costumes for his production of "Richard of Bordeaux.

        Alice Green Fredman, professor emeritus of English and comparative literature at Columbia University and an authority on the 18th- and 19th-century novel, died on Monday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
Her best-known book, "Diderot and Sterne" (Columbia University Press, 1955) won the Clarke F. Ansley Award by Columbia and was reprinted in 1973 by Farrar, Strauss & Giroux.
Other books include "Anthony Trollope," published in 1971 by Columbia University Press in its Modern Writers Series.
Ms. Nay was born in Crestwood, Ky., and graduated from the University of Louisville with a master's degree.
She began teaching art at the university in 1942 and was a professor of art education when she retired in 1979.
Active in Politics
        She taught Russian at Cornell, Columbia and Indiana Universities, at the University of Michigan and at Hunter College.
She completed her studies for a doctorate in Slavic linguistics at Charles University in Prague, but the Nazis shut down the school before it granted the degree.
Ms. Hughes was born in Kansas City, Mo., and received a bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Missouri.
She also studied at the University of New Mexico and Columbia University.
She also studied at the University of New Mexico and Columbia University.
Her parents separated in her childhood, and her formal education was mainly at the University of London and the nearby School of Oriental and African Studies.

        Bernice Feinstein, a former lecturer on music history at George Washington University, died on Sunday at King Edward VII Hospital in Bermuda.
A native of Manhattan, the former Bernice Richman graduated from Smith College and earned a master's degree in music from Barnard College and a doctorate in music from Columbia University.
Her association with George Washington University began after her husband, a former vice president of Sol Hurok Concerts in New York, was named executive director of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
A native of Orange, N.J., she graduated magna cum laude from Tufts University.
degree in Arabic history from Harvard University, an M.S.
She received a master's degree in history from Columbia University in 1924 and a medical degree from New York University in 1938.
She received a master's degree in history from Columbia University in 1924 and a medical degree from New York University in 1938.
Her other books were "Eighty Puerto Rican Families in New York City," a study of the families in her East Harlem clinic, published by Columbia University Press in 1958, and "A Life in Two Worlds," an autobiography published in in 1983 by Walker & Company.
During her career, Dr. Berle was associated with St. Luke's Hospital Center, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at the Bronx State Hospital, Cornell University Medical College, New York University Medical College and Yeshiva University.
During her career, Dr. Berle was associated with St. Luke's Hospital Center, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at the Bronx State Hospital, Cornell University Medical College, New York University Medical College and Yeshiva University.
During her career, Dr. Berle was associated with St. Luke's Hospital Center, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Albert Einstein College of Medicine at the Bronx State Hospital, Cornell University Medical College, New York University Medical College and Yeshiva University.
She was the widow of Dr. Jacob I. Hartstein, dean of the graduate schools of Yeshiva University and Long Island University, who died in 1991.
She was the widow of Dr. Jacob I. Hartstein, dean of the graduate schools of Yeshiva University and Long Island University, who died in 1991.
She earned a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Hollins College in Roanoke, Va., and a master's degree and a doctorate in philosophy from Columbia University.
The cause was bone cancer, said her husband, Schuyler G. Chapin, who is dean emeritus of Columbia University's School of the Arts and a former general manager of the Metropolitan Opera.
She was a past president of the International Linguistic Association, American Society of Geolinguistics, the American Name Society and New York City chapter of the American Association of University Women.
She also taught at Columbia, Hunter College, the University of Vermont, the University of Colorado, the University of Utah, the University of Arkansas and the New School for Social Research.
She also taught at Columbia, Hunter College, the University of Vermont, the University of Colorado, the University of Utah, the University of Arkansas and the New School for Social Research.
She also taught at Columbia, Hunter College, the University of Vermont, the University of Colorado, the University of Utah, the University of Arkansas and the New School for Social Research.
She also taught at Columbia, Hunter College, the University of Vermont, the University of Colorado, the University of Utah, the University of Arkansas and the New School for Social Research.

        Muriel Clara Bradbrook, a leading British authority on Shakespeare who taught at Girton College at Cambridge University, died on June 11 in Cambridge.
The money she saved eventually got her back to California and into the University of Southern California, where her major was merchandising.

        Ethel Hausman, a founder and major supporter of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City and North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Manhasset, L. I., died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.

        Ethel Hausman, a founder and major supporter of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City and North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Manhasset, L. I., died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
With her husband, she was a principal donor to North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College, where the Ethel and Jack Hausman Department of Pediatrics attests to their support.
With her husband, she was a principal donor to North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College, where the Ethel and Jack Hausman Department of Pediatrics attests to their support.
North Shore University Hospital opened in Manhasset in 1953.
Ethel and Jack Hausman endowed chairs bearing their names for a professor of pediatrics at North Shore University Hospital and for cerebral-palsy research at Harvard University.
Ethel and Jack Hausman endowed chairs bearing their names for a professor of pediatrics at North Shore University Hospital and for cerebral-palsy research at Harvard University.
A native of Philadelphia, she graduated from Temple University and received a master's degree in sociology from Columbia University.
A native of Philadelphia, she graduated from Temple University and received a master's degree in sociology from Columbia University.

        R. Louise McManus, a leader in nursing education who spent 36 years on the faculty of Teachers College of Columbia University, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Natick, Mass.
A native of Buffalo, she graduated from D'Youville College there and took graduate courses in engineering and fabrics at the University of Buffalo.
Ms. McLean retired in 1977 as the director of Columbia University's Division of Dental Hygiene and an assistant dean at Columbia's School of Dental and Oral Surgery.
She earned her certificate in dental hygiene at Columbia, a bachelor's degree in health education at New York University and a master's in administration at Columbia.
Dr. Woodard was a biochemist at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, which she joined after receiving her Ph.D. in chemistry from Columbia University in 1925.
She endowed the Woodard Fellowships at Columbia University, a fellowship at the New York University School of Environmental Medicine and the John Laughlin Professorship at the Sloan-Kettering center.
She endowed the Woodard Fellowships at Columbia University, a fellowship at the New York University School of Environmental Medicine and the John Laughlin Professorship at the Sloan-Kettering center.
She attended California State University at Long Beach, where she earned a degree in education in 1963.
After graduating from Bennett she earned a master's degree in social work at Columbia University.
In her book, "Penicillin: Meeting the Challenge" (Yale University Press, 1985), Dr. Hobby chronicled penicillin's precarious journey from laboratory to factory, beginning with Sir Alexander Fleming's intriguing find of 1928.
She had first helped to refine penicillin specifically for the treatment of infections as a member of a research team at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University.
Until her retirement in 1977 she also served as an assistant clinical research professor in public health at Cornell University Medical College.
Dr. Whitney, a native of Iowa, graduated summa cum laude from the College of Nursing at the State University of Iowa and earned a master's degree at Boston University's School of Nursing.
Dr. Whitney, a native of Iowa, graduated summa cum laude from the College of Nursing at the State University of Iowa and earned a master's degree at Boston University's School of Nursing.
While pursing her career, she studied psychoeducation at Temple University and not-for-profit management at Columbia University's School of Business.
While pursing her career, she studied psychoeducation at Temple University and not-for-profit management at Columbia University's School of Business.
She received a Ph.D. in 1988 from the human-sexuality program in the Department of Health Education at New York University, which entailed studies in Sweden, Japan and Kenya.
After graduating from Mary Washington College she earned a master's degree in clinical psychology from George Washington University and briefly practiced as a school psychologist.
She was educated at Barnard College and graduated from Columbia University's School of Journalism in 1918.
For this she received a special citation in 1982 at Columbia University from the trustees of the annual Maria Moors Cabot prizes in inter-American journalism.
She was rejected for admission to Columbia University's law school in the 1920's because it did not have toilets and other accommodations for female students, her family said.
So she earned her law degree at New York University instead.
She earned her law degrees from New York University School of Law, receiving her doctorate in 1958.

        Vivian E. Browne, a professor of art at Rutgers University and a painter whose work linked abstraction to nature, died on July 23 at her home in Manhattan.
Born in Syracuse, she was a graduate of Syracuse University.
She was active in the American Civil Liberties Union, the American Committee on Africa, Howard University, Planned Parenthood-World Population and the Rachel Carson Trust for the Living Environment.
Dr.  Ramsey worked for 36 years for Carnegie's embryology department on the Johns Hopkins University campus in Baltimore.

        Elizabeth Hannah Waters, a modern dancer and choreographer who performed with Hanya Holm's company in the 1930's and who founded the dance program at the University of New Mexico, died on June 5 at her home in Echo Canyon, N.M. She was 83.
Waters taught at the University of New Mexico from 1946 to 1973; among her students was Tim Wengerd, a principal in the Martha Graham Dance Company in the 1970's and 1980's.
She played a key role in Womanspace, a program devoted to women's support services at Columbia University.
Born in Brooklyn, she graduated from Adelphi College and earned a master's degree in comparative literature at Columbia University.
at City College and studied for a doctorate at Teachers College of Columbia University.
Mrs. Yagoda, who was born in Brooklyn, graduated from Hofstra University.

        Dr. Wilma Thompson Donahue, an expert in the psychology of aging and director emeritus of the University of Michigan Institute of Gerontology, died on Tuesday at her home in Ann Arbor.
She had had a long illness, the university reported.
Born in Mitchellville, Iowa, she earned three degrees in psychology at the University of Michigan, including a doctorate in 1937.
In 1951, she became the founding director of the university's division of gerontology and took the same position at the transformed Institute of Gerontology in 1966.
At the time, the university's Regents cited her ultimate mission as apolitical and purely educational: "She sought to elicit the truth about old people, especially those distressed in mind, body, or estate.
From 1978 until two years ago, she also was a medical professor at the School for Biomedical Education of the City University Medical School at City College and, until 1985, a member of the college's graduate faculty of biochemistry and biology.
in zoology from Tulane University and a Ph.D. in anatomy from Yale University School of Medicine.
in zoology from Tulane University and a Ph.D. in anatomy from Yale University School of Medicine.
She had various teaching and research jobs at Yale before joining the State University of New York in Buffalo as an associate professor of anatomical sciences in the mid-1970's.
A statement from City University yesterday said her studies there had furthered in vitro fertilization, adding: "She was always deeply concerned about minority issues, and provided strong suport for minority students, and was a longtime advocate for women in science and medicine.

        Dr. Kathrine Koller, a Renaissance scholar who became the first woman to head a department at the University of Rochester, died on Aug. 17 at a Rochester nursing home.
She had a long illness, the university reported.
She was born in Hudson, N.Y., graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Wittenberg University and received a doctorate at Johns Hopkins University in 1932.
She was born in Hudson, N.Y., graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Wittenberg University and received a doctorate at Johns Hopkins University in 1932.
Mrs. Shwayder was born in Chicago and studied at the University of Chicago.
Mrs. Shwayder was born in Chicago and studied at the University of Chicago.
She was a graduate of Hunter College and one of the first women to graduate from St. John's University School of Law.
She also held a graduate degree in tax law from Columbia University and was a certified public accountant.
Ms. Eolis was a tax consultant in private practice and served on the faculty of the New York University Tax Institute and Pace University.
Ms. Eolis was a tax consultant in private practice and served on the faculty of the New York University Tax Institute and Pace University.
She graduated from New York Hospital School of Nursing in 1937 and later earned a master's degree in nursing education at Catholic University.
Ms. Martelli was born in Philadelphia and graduated from Pennsylvania State University.
When she became the first professor of Indian art at the University of Calcutta in 1923 and published "Principles of Indian Art" in 1924, Professor Kramrisch laid the foundations for the systematic study of Indian art.
In 1950 she moved to the United States, where she was both professor of South Asian art at the University of Pennsylvania, and curator of Indian art at the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
In 1964 she was appointed professor of Indian art at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University.
At the age of 80, she completed "Early Education and Psychological Development" (Yale University Press, 1984).
Dr. Biber, who was born in Brooklyn, first attended Barnard College and then graduated from the University of Chicago.
She received a Ph.D. in psychology in 1942 from Columbia University.
Born in Cambridge, Mass., Mrs. Alter graduated from Brandeis University and the University of Michigan law school.
Born in Cambridge, Mass., Mrs. Alter graduated from Brandeis University and the University of Michigan law school.
She was an adjunct professor of law at the University of Detroit and a member of the Anti-Defamation League and the Jewish Welfare Federation of Metropolitan Detroit.

        Diana Vincent-Daviss, a professor of law and law librarian at Yale University Law School, died on Tuesday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
A spokeswoman for the university said she died of a cerebral aneurysm.
She was appointed law librarian at Yale in 1991 after serving in a similar capacity at New York University for eight years, during which she supervised the expansion of the law library, doubling its physical size.
She was the author of many articles and handbooks, including a three-part research guide on human rights law that was published by New York University.
She received her bachelor's and master's degrees in law at Cambridge and a master's degree in library science at Columbia University in 1972.
Dr. Roe was a professor emeritus of nutritional sciences at Cornell University.
She was graduated from the University of London in 1945, where she received her M.D.
Although she spent most of her life in New York City and Massachusetts, she had her first one-woman exhibition in 1949 at Washburn University in Topeka, Kan., where her husband, George Klein, worked briefly as a psychologist at the Menninger Clinic.
History Project
        While still a doctoral student in economic history in what is now Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ms. Kessler was asked to direct a pilot history project for the Works Progress Administration, the New Deal program established in 1935 to provide employment through public works projects; eventually, the history project grew into the W.P.A.
She was born in Cleveland and attended Radcliffe College before enrolling at the Cleveland university, where she received an undergraduate degree in 1929.
She died of complications from a fall last March, said Dr. Murl G. Barker, a friend, who is chairman of the Russian department at Rutgers University.
She attended Rostov University and was involved in the literary and artistic ferment in that city until she left in 1922, accompanying the poet Vladislav Khodasevich.
In 1958 she joined the Slavic department at Yale University, and in 1963 she moved on to Princeton, where she taught until 1971.
She received an honorary doctorate from Middlebury College in 1983, and another from Yale University last year.
Born in Manhattan, she grew up in Morristown, N.J.
        After retiring from Harper's Bazaar at the age of 65, Mrs. Morris, who had no college degree, started a new career at Columbia University teaching short-story writing.

        Barbara Taylor Schoen, an author and the founder and director of the writing program at the State University of New York at Purchase, died on Thursday at her Purchase home.
Mrs. Schoen, a native of Manhattan, graduated from Bryn Mawr College, cum laude, and Boston University, where she earned a master's degree in physics.
She graduated from the University of Pittsburgh and received a master's degree from Bridgeport University.
She graduated from the University of Pittsburgh and received a master's degree from Bridgeport University.
In 1971, the Eckarts moved to Dallas to teach at Southern Methodist University, while continuing to take on occasional free-lance design projects.
Mrs. Eckart received a master's degree in social work from the University of Texas and co-founded the Community Psychotherapy Center, a nonprofit institution in Dallas.
She died of cancer, said her husband, Michael, who stepped down in June as president of Columbia University.
She received her law degree at the Albany Law School of Union University and was admitted to the bar in 1927.
Now part of the the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, it was then the state's largest hospital.
At the same time she was pursuing a bachelor's degree in nursing and then a master's degree in public health at New York University.
She spent the summer of 1965 at the University of Oslo in Norway studying the Scandinavian health system.
In 1952 she earned a bachelor's degree in the liberal arts at the University of Minnesota.
She was awarded a master's degree in speech and theater at the University of Utah in 1955.
"
        She trained at Ohio State University, American University, George Washington University and Duke University as well as on the job as a microbiologist.
"
        She trained at Ohio State University, American University, George Washington University and Duke University as well as on the job as a microbiologist.
"
        She trained at Ohio State University, American University, George Washington University and Duke University as well as on the job as a microbiologist.
"
        She trained at Ohio State University, American University, George Washington University and Duke University as well as on the job as a microbiologist.
She left in 1962 to become an associate professor of medical mycology at Harvard University's School of Public Health and advanced to full professor in 1970.
Three years later she accepted an appointment as professor of medical sciences at Southern Illinois University and also served as department chairwoman from 1974 until her academic retirement in 1977.
After attending Edinburgh University and working as a journalist in London, she moved to New York with her family and then settled in San Francisco with her mother and sister, Pat, who often collaborated with her.
In May 1988, she was awarded an honorary doctorate from Yale University for her volunteer work.

        Christine O'Reilly, one of the tennis-playing triplets from Ridgewood, N.J., died on Sunday at the University of California hospital at Irvine.

        Christine O'Reilly, one of the tennis-playing triplets from Ridgewood, N.J., died on Sunday at the University of California hospital at Irvine.
She graduated from Wellesley College in 1928, received her medical degree from Cornell University in 1932, and went on to train as an intern and resident at Philadelphia General Hospital.

        Joan Sibley, a fashion designer whose work is included in the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Tuesday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset.
Professor Dembo, who had taught at Clark University in Worcester, did important early work in Gestalt psychology in the United States, particularly in rehabilitation psychology.
She was head of Clark University's Rehabilitation Psychology Training Program from 1962 to 1972 and was one of two recipients of the first research awards from the Division of Rehabilitation Counseling of the American Personnel and Guidance Association.
She earned her doctorate from the University of Berlin in 1930 and emigrated to the United States before World War II to do research at Smith College, which she continued at Cornell University, the University of Iowa, Mount Holyoke College and Stanford University.
She earned her doctorate from the University of Berlin in 1930 and emigrated to the United States before World War II to do research at Smith College, which she continued at Cornell University, the University of Iowa, Mount Holyoke College and Stanford University.
She earned her doctorate from the University of Berlin in 1930 and emigrated to the United States before World War II to do research at Smith College, which she continued at Cornell University, the University of Iowa, Mount Holyoke College and Stanford University.
She earned her doctorate from the University of Berlin in 1930 and emigrated to the United States before World War II to do research at Smith College, which she continued at Cornell University, the University of Iowa, Mount Holyoke College and Stanford University.
In 1948, she became an associate professor at the New School for Social Research in New York and then a research fellow at Harvard University in 1951.
She joined the faculty at Clark University in 1953.
Professor Dembo, who lived on the Clark University campus, retired from active teaching in 1972 and was made a professor emeritus.
      
"
        Born in Washington, she moved to Sarasota to attend New College and later studied law at the University of Virginia.
A native of Manhattan, Ms. Bosworth graduated from Amherst College and, in 1983, from Columbia University Law School.
Ms. Menon began her career as a freelance writer and photographer in Asia in the late 1960's after graduating with a journalism degree from New York University.

        Dr. Dorothy Borg, a Columbia University historian of United States-East Asian relations, died last Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
She was the author or editor of a number of books, including "The United States and the Far Eastern Crisis, 1933-1938" (Harvard University Press, 1965), for which Columbia awarded her its Bancroft Prize in American History.
She was the co-editor, with Waldo Heinrichs, of "Uncertain Years: Chinese American Relations, 1947-1950" (Columbia University Press, 1980), which remains in print.
Defended Targets of McCarthy
        A native of Elberon, N.J., she graduated from Wellesley College and earned master's and doctoral degrees at Columbia University.
Before she joined the institute at Columbia, she was a researcher at Harvard University where she helped organize area programs that, starting in the 1960's, trained scholars in American and East Asian history.
This year she contributed $2 million for AIDS research at Duke University in Durham, N.C., which was named for her family, and $1 million to the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation.
The president of Duke University, Nannerl O. Keohane, said yesterday, in a statement released by the university, that Miss Duke's "recent gift in support of AIDS research at Duke is but one of many programs here that she supported, from our Primate Center to other programs across the campus.
The president of Duke University, Nannerl O. Keohane, said yesterday, in a statement released by the university, that Miss Duke's "recent gift in support of AIDS research at Duke is but one of many programs here that she supported, from our Primate Center to other programs across the campus.
"
        A spokesman for the university, John F. Burness, declined to say what, if anything, it might receive from Miss Duke's estate.
The building now houses the Fine Arts Institute of New York University.
Mr. Cromwell and Miss Duke had first met in 1929 in Bar Harbor, Me., when she was a long-legged teen-ager and he was already 10 years out of the University of Pennsylvania.
She served as a trustee of Duke University, which her family had built up with donations of many millions, and in her later years she became fascinated by the search for alternative sources of energy.
Over the years, Miss Duke and the foundation that bore her name made contributions to many other causes, ranging from the advancement of Russian studies at Princeton University to architectural restoration in Newport.
Denied Re-Election
        She was working an assistant professor of health at Lehman College of the City University of New York when she was appointed as the second woman ever to serve on the Board of Regents, which supervises all education in the state.
Ms. Klein graduated from New York University in 1936 and received a master's degree in education from Colorado State College of Education in 1937.
But her father was not sympathetic to her desire to make dancing her professional career,and she became an English major at the University of California at Los Angeles, graduating cum laude.
Dr. Feitel was born in Manhattan, graduated from Hunter College and earned master's and doctoral degrees in psychology at Columbia University's Teachers College.
She also served on groups advising Catholic Charities, Fordham University, St. John's University, Elizabeth Seton College and St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers.
She also served on groups advising Catholic Charities, Fordham University, St. John's University, Elizabeth Seton College and St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers.
'Like an Ambassador'
        Under the tutelage of Arch Watkins, her game continued to develop in college at Arizona State University, where she was named to two all-America teams.
Born Jane Griswold in Madison, Wis., she was a 1924 graduate of Smith College and held a master's degree from the New York School of Social Work, now part of Columbia University.
"
        Ms. Shearer was born in Boston and graduated from Brandeis University.
After attending Vassar College and the University of Cincinnati, she played Shakespearean roles in a theater company headed by Walter Hampden.
For many years she lectured in classics at the University of California at Los Angeles, where she earned a bachelor's and a master's degree in Latin in the 1950's.
Mrs. Harris was a graduate of Mount Holyoke College and the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work.
Mrs. Reno was an alumna of Washington University in St. Louis and of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.
Mrs. Reno was an alumna of Washington University in St. Louis and of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism.

        Alice Basto Tondel, coordinator of the Harvard University Band for 37 years, died on Thursday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass.

        Nancy Lyman Roelker, a retired professor of European history at Boston University, died Saturday at her home in East Greenwich, R.I. She was 78.
Her last book, "One King, One Faith: The Parliament of Paris and the Reformations of the 16th Century," is scheduled for publication next year by the University of California Press, which placed it on its "centennial roster" of the 100 most distinguished books it has published since 1895.
She was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Radcliffe College and received her master's and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University.
She later taught at the Winsor School in Boston for 22 years, and in 1963 joined the faculty of Tufts University.
Dr. Roelker came to Boston University as a full professor in 1971 and retired in 1980.
While there she met and married a fellow student at the Sorbonne, Julien Feydy, who became a political scientist and university professor.
Mrs. Coates was born in Salem, Mass., was an honors graduate of Wellesley College and received her law degree from Boston University.
Dr. Ingalls was a graduate of Barnard and Radcliffe Colleges and in 1937 received a doctorate in bacteriology and immunology from Columbia University.
She worked as a translator and taught political economics at Charles University in Prague.
She was dismissed from her university post after Soviet-led troops of the Warsaw Pact invaded Czechoslovakia in 1968 to crush the liberal reforms of Alexander Dubcek.

        Florence Bibo Alexander, a Manhattan agent for illustrators of children's books for many years, died on Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
She was 50 and practiced in Manhattan and Mount Kisco, N. Y.
        Mrs. Fisher was a founder of Yeshiva University's Albert Einstein College of Medicine, a benefactor of the Metropolitan Opera and a board member of the Make a Wish Foundation.
She received the Gallatin Medal from New York University in 1976 for "contributions of lasting significance to society," was a recipient of the first National Medal of Arts in 1985, and received the American Red Cross Humanitarian Award in 1988.
