She graduated from Adelphi University and in the early 1960's began to work for Colbert Artists as an assistant to the company's founders, Henry and Ann Colbert.
At her death, Dr. Mauss, a retired New York University physiologist, remained active in the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.
She graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1936 and received her doctorate in science from Johns Hopkins University three years later.
She graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1936 and received her doctorate in science from Johns Hopkins University three years later.
Among the foundation's top priorities was the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center for the City of New York, affiliated with Rockefeller University.
Dr. Carlson was a professor of psychology at Rutgers University, retiring in 1996.
She received her Ph.D. in psychology from the University of Michigan in 1958.
Celia Leikind was born in Cleveland and graduated from Case Western Reserve University.
Solo retrospectives of her paintings were held in 1987 at the University of Iowa Museum of Art and in 1990 at the Fresno Art Museum in California.
In 1965, after the rules changed, she was appointed to an endowed chair as a professor of psychology, and the Gibsons became one of the first married couples in a single department at the university.
The cause was liver cancer, said an associate, Norma Field, professor of Japanese studies at the University of Chicago.
She was serving as stage manager of a college production of ''Romeo and Juliet'' when she met Mr. Kerr, then a professor of drama at Catholic University in Washington.
Shortly after earning her bachelor's degree at Marywood, she married and received a master's degree from Catholic University in 1945.

        Felice Marks Lippert, in whose kitchen Weight Watchers was hatched 40 years ago, died on Saturday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y.
She wrote a book about the role of cats in Islamic literature and another, ''The Mystery of Numbers'' (Oxford University Press, 1993), that compared numerical symbolism in various cultures.
After earning her second doctorate, in comparative religion, Ms. Schimmel began teaching Persian and Arabic poetry at the University of Marburg in Germany.
For several years she taught theology at the University of Ankara in Turkey, the first woman and the first non-Muslim to do so.

        Edith Hirsch, a former commodities economist, died on Jan. 7 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, D.C. She was 103.
Mrs. Hirsch received a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Heidelberg in 1925.
As Ms. Flynn described that first meeting to Robert Cherny, a history professor at San Francisco State University who is working on a biography of Mr. Bridges, her future husband was quite drunk.
Ms. Rosen, who was born in Baltimore, trained with Bill Evans and at Arizona State University and the Laban/Bartenieff Institute of Movement Studies in New York.
Ms. Rothenberg, a junior majoring in English at Brown University liked to say that she had already had her midlife crisis.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Tarlow is survived by her son, Cody, a student at the University of California at Santa Cruz; her younger sister, Jamie Anderson, of Westwood, Mass.

        Anne Logan Davis Wichern, a lung specialist at Bellevue Hospital Center and professor emeritus at New York University who established one of the country's first emphysema clinics, died March 9.
That year, she accepted an associate professorship with permanent tenure at the New York University School of Medicine, from which she retired in December.
While studying music at the University of California in Los Angeles, she was briefly married to a classmate, whose name she kept for the stage.
She served as a trustee for the Massachusetts state college system and the University of Massachusetts and was president of the Friends of Boston University Libraries.
She served as a trustee for the Massachusetts state college system and the University of Massachusetts and was president of the Friends of Boston University Libraries.
She received a bachelor's degree in theater from Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., and a master's degree in fiction from Brooklyn College.
Her father, who was 63, was chairman of the neurology department at Stony Brook University Medical School in Stony Brook, N.Y.
She and her husband donated their collection, considered one of the best ensembles of post-1960's Latin American work in the United States, to the Archer M. Huntington Art Gallery (now the Jack S. Blanton Museum of Art) at the University of Texas, Austin, to which Ms. Duncan also gave a substantial collection of archival material.
In an interview in the catalog for the 1997 exhibition ''Realigning Vision: Alternative Currents in South American Drawing,'' organized by the University of Texas on the model of one of her earlier shows, she said that what she found distinctive about the art to which she had devoted her attention was its ''reluctance to give up the subject of the human condition.
Dr. Borg was strict about who was allowed to be on the list, limiting recipients to women with highly technical training, and the discussions were rigorously confined to technical issues, said Maria Klawe, dean of engineering at Princeton University and a longtime friend of Dr. Borg.
Dr. Borg's bent for computer science emerged while she was attending New York University, where she received her Ph.D. in 1981.
Mrs. Augustine was born in the Bronx in 1910 and earned a bachelor's degree at Hunter Colleger and a master's at Columbia University.
Luella Mae Smith was born in San Antonio on June 2, 1935, and attended Fordham University in New York City.
She met Mr. Griffiths, a fellow student, at the University of Missouri, where both were on the debating team.
They studied law, and in 1940 were the first couple to graduate together from the University of Michigan Law School.
She studied drama at the University of Texas, where she met her first husband, Zachary Scott, the actor, when both were involved in theater there.
She was also active in the Steinbeck Research Center at San Jose State University in California and in 1996 donated an archive of more than 200 letters sent to Steinbeck by John F. Kennedy, Harry Truman, Carl Sandburg, Alice B. Toklas, Ingrid Bergman and others.
She studied ballet and modern dance there and at New York University and Juilliard.
She graduated cum laude in 1980 from Yale University, where she majored in art history and wrote her senior essay on the effect of Barbie dolls on popular culture.
Her interest in contemporary folk art took her to the University of Mississippi, where she wrote her master's thesis on Theora Hamblett, a little-known visionary folk painter, and became deeply involved with black quilt-makers.
Widely credited with raising this art school's national and international profile, she more than tripled its endowment, oversaw the renovation and expansion of its landmark building, added several new trustees, re-established its visiting artists' program and also established an exchange program with Oxford University.
She grew up in Berkeley, Calif., and graduated from the University of California there.

        Erika Fromm, an emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Chicago and an expert on the use of hypnosis in therapy, died on Monday at her home in Chicago.
Born Erika Oppenheimer in Frankfurt, Germany, on Dec. 23, 1909, she received her doctorate in psychology from the University of Frankfurt in 1933.
She was a research assistant in psychiatry at the University of Chicago from 1939 to 1940, then spent years in practice and joined the university's faculty in 1961.
She was a research assistant in psychiatry at the University of Chicago from 1939 to 1940, then spent years in practice and joined the university's faculty in 1961.
She earned a bachelor's degree at Cornell University, where she later helped found the President's Council of Cornell Women, and an M.B.A. in marketing at the New York University Graduate School of Business.
She earned a bachelor's degree at Cornell University, where she later helped found the President's Council of Cornell Women, and an M.B.A. in marketing at the New York University Graduate School of Business.
Her parents disapproved of acting, but a sympathetic aunt reportedly lent her $2,500 so she could study acting at the University of Michigan.
She graduated from Columbia Law School and New York University Medical School.

        Dorothy Nelkin, a New York University sociologist who chronicled the uneasy relationship between science and society, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
The cause was cancer, the university said.
's highest ranks, university professor.
She attended public schools and the University of Wisconsin.
She received a bachelor's degree in English, magna cum laude, from the University of California at Los Angeles, where she also was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
She graduated from Columbia University and attended its Graduate School of Journalism.
She took advertising courses from Columbia University's extension service, now called the School of General Studies.
The university says it has no record of her having graduated from Columbia College or having attended the Columbia journalism school.
      
She graduated from the Fieldston School in the Bronx, and attended New York University.
She received a master of fine arts degree from the New York University Graduate Institute of Film and Television in 1968.
A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Stanford University, she married Julius Heldman, a former United States junior tennis champion, in 1942.
'' In 1989, Yale University awarded Ms. Cruz an honorary doctorate (alongside Stephen Hawking), and in 1990 the main street of Little Havana in Miami, Calle Ocho, added the name Celia Cruz Way.
She appeared in several movies, and went through a Bombay university in order to be hired by a major studio, Bombay Talkies; it hired only college graduates.
'' She earned a master's degree in literature at the University of Ottawa in 1975, writing a thesis on the Canadian writer Susanna Moodie.
''
        The year her first novel was published she began to teach literature, first at the University of Ottawa, then, in 1978 and '79 at the University of British Columbia, and, from 1980 to 2000, at the University of Manitoba.
''
        The year her first novel was published she began to teach literature, first at the University of Ottawa, then, in 1978 and '79 at the University of British Columbia, and, from 1980 to 2000, at the University of Manitoba.
''
        The year her first novel was published she began to teach literature, first at the University of Ottawa, then, in 1978 and '79 at the University of British Columbia, and, from 1980 to 2000, at the University of Manitoba.
In 1996 she became chancellor of the University of Winnipeg, and in 2000 she became its chancellor emerita.

        Lucille Roberts, a businesswoman whose ambition to create ''the McDonald's of health clubs'' inspired a chain of bargain-basement gyms for women, died yesterday at New York University Downtown Hospital in Manhattan.
She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1964 and worked in a succession of jobs in retailing.
Dr. Lazarus, who was associate provost for academic affairs at Carnegie Mellon University, was recognized for her creative methods of increasing the number of women in science and engineering at Carnegie Mellon and elsewhere.
She received a bachelor's degree from American University in 1973.
She attended Busch Conservatory of Music there and George Washington University but dropped out to join the staff of The New York Post in 1937.
Gertrude Samuels is among those featured at an exhibition in the Mugar Library of Boston University in Boston, ''On the Front Line: Women Journalists on War and Politics,'' which opened in January.
      
She studied drama at the University of Georgia.
''
        A native of Los Angeles, Joan Lowery grew up in Hollywood and received a bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Southern California.
The book, which showed her knack for poetry in a disciplined form, was followed by the intensely personal verses of ''The Human Climate: New Poems'' (Contemporary Poetry, 1953), and ''The Animal Inside'' (Ohio University Press, 1966), which widened her range and touched on subjects of love and death.
Her books currently in print include ''Distances'' (Press Alley, 1991); ''In the Crevice of Time: New and Collected Poems'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995); ''Instant of Knowing: Lectures, Criticism and Occasional Prose,'' Elizabeth Spires, editor (University of Michigan Press, 2000); ''On the Island: New and Selected Stories'' (Ontario Review Press, 1989); and ''What Goes Without Saying: Collected Stories of Josephine Jacobsen'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2000).
Her books currently in print include ''Distances'' (Press Alley, 1991); ''In the Crevice of Time: New and Collected Poems'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995); ''Instant of Knowing: Lectures, Criticism and Occasional Prose,'' Elizabeth Spires, editor (University of Michigan Press, 2000); ''On the Island: New and Selected Stories'' (Ontario Review Press, 1989); and ''What Goes Without Saying: Collected Stories of Josephine Jacobsen'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2000).
Her books currently in print include ''Distances'' (Press Alley, 1991); ''In the Crevice of Time: New and Collected Poems'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995); ''Instant of Knowing: Lectures, Criticism and Occasional Prose,'' Elizabeth Spires, editor (University of Michigan Press, 2000); ''On the Island: New and Selected Stories'' (Ontario Review Press, 1989); and ''What Goes Without Saying: Collected Stories of Josephine Jacobsen'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2000).

        Patricia S. Goldman-Rakic, a professor of neuroscience at Yale University whose pioneering research on brain and memory functions helped pave the way for understanding schizophrenia and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, died last Thursday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
She earned a bachelor's degree at Vassar College in 1959 and a doctorate at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1963.
After years of research at U.C.L.A., New York University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the National Institutes of Health, she joined the Yale faculty in 1979.
She was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1990, and held honorary degrees from the University of Utrecht in the Netherlands and the University of St. Andrews in Scotland.
She was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1990, and held honorary degrees from the University of Utrecht in the Netherlands and the University of St. Andrews in Scotland.
Ms. Chase left Cold Spring Harbor in 1953 to work at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee and later at the University of Rochester.
In 1959, she began work on her doctorate at the University of Southern California.
Mrs. Pelosi graduated from the University of California at Irvine in 1981.
''
        Ms. Fonaroff was also a respected teacher at her own studio and at colleges, including Bennington College and at Teachers College at Columbia University.
She died at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, a Long Island hospital of which she and her husband were among the founders, said her son Kevin McCrary.
In 1949, Columbia University published her doctoral thesis, ''Playwriting for Elizabethans, 1600-1605.
She was awarded honorary degrees by American and British universities, including Brown, the University of Birmingham (England), the University of Massachusetts and Union College.
She was awarded honorary degrees by American and British universities, including Brown, the University of Birmingham (England), the University of Massachusetts and Union College.
Correction:  September 25, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Aug. 30 about Mary Viscountess Eccles, a leading bibliophile and collector of material on Samuel Johnson, misstated the name of the New York University professor who collaborated with her and her first husband in editing a volume of Johnson's works.
Born in the Philippines, Dr. Magno moved to the Washington area in 1969 to join the staff of the Georgetown University Hospital.
She received a medical degree from the University of Santo Tomas.
She graduated from the University of Minnesota with honors in library science.
''
        Born in Fayetteville, N.C., in 1910, Roxie Collie Laybourne earned her bachelor's degree from Meredith College in Raleigh and a master's degree at George Washington University.
Nadia Younes was born in Cairo on June 13, 1946, and earned a bachelor's degree in English literature at Cairo University in 1966.
She joined the United Nations in 1970, at the same time beginning studies at New York University, where she earned a master's degree in political science and international relations in 1973.
She was one of the first women to study law at the University of Texas, and she started one of the state's first girls' drill teams, a movement that grew into a Texas passion.
Mrs. Reeves graduated from Texas Women's University in Denton as a speech major and then attended the University of Texas School of Law, but left to take a job because her family was short of money in the Depression.
Mrs. Reeves graduated from Texas Women's University in Denton as a speech major and then attended the University of Texas School of Law, but left to take a job because her family was short of money in the Depression.
She taught physical education at Leipzig University until being fired in the Nazis' purge of Jewish faculty members.
Ms. Marlow was born and raised in Waterloo, Iowa, graduated from the University of Northern Iowa at Cedar Falls and received a master's degree in English from the University of Michigan in 1953.
Ms. Marlow was born and raised in Waterloo, Iowa, graduated from the University of Northern Iowa at Cedar Falls and received a master's degree in English from the University of Michigan in 1953.
Anna Maria Lindh was born in Stockholm on June 19, 1957, and earned a law degree from the University of Uppsala.
He is now a professor at the University of Minnesota and helped persuade his mother to participate in the documentary.
''
        Published in 1962 and still in print, the book describes the winter night when she was 14 and Fairbanks caught fire, prompting her father and other men to burn the town's bacon supply as fuel to keep the steam-powered water pump running; her late-winter dogsled trips over thawing rivers; how in 1924 she became the first woman to graduate from the University of Alaska; and her marriage later that year, in a 3 a.m. sunrise ceremony, to Olaus Murie, a biologist for the Biological Survey, the forerunner of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
Born on July 14, 1943, in Chickasha, Okla., she received a bachelor's degree from Muskingum College in Ohio and attended Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies in Washington.
Chiang promised to convert, and eventually sent Chen away to the United States, where she enrolled at Columbia University and earned a doctorate.
She went on to receive her Ph.D. from the Institute of Animal Behavior at Rutgers University.
Whether serotonin influences the anterior pituitary is an issue that many scientists debate to this day, said Dr. Marc Freeman, a professor of biological science and neuroscience at Florida State University.
Wendy Elizabeth Marx was born in Manhattan on June 7, 1967, and grew up in Rye Brook, N.Y. She graduated cum laude from Duke University in 1989 and headed for San Francisco to start a career in marketing.

        Carolyn G. Heilbrun, a retired Columbia University literary scholar whose extensive writings included pioneering books and essays in the feminist canon and a dozen highly erudite detective novels under the pseudonym Amanda Cross, died at her home in Manhattan on Thursday.
But after the 1970 publication of ''Poetic Justice,'' with its recognizable depiction of Columbia University's atmosphere after the student revolt of the late 1960's, Ms. Heilbrun's friends began to guess that she might be Amanda Cross, the author of three novels, including ''The James Joyce Murder.
She was married in 1945 to James Heilbrun, a Harvard student who became a professor of economics at Fordham University.
In 1986 she became the first director of the university's Institute for Research on Women and Gender, which promotes feminist scholarship.
In 1998, Ms. Kroc gave $100 million to the Salvation Army to build and endow the Ray and Joan Kroc Community Center in San Diego and $25 million to the University of San Diego to establish its Institute for Peace and Justice.
In the 1980's she gave $19 million to the University of Notre Dame to endow an institute for international peace studies.
She graduated from high school at 16 and from an honors course at the University of Maryland in three years.
Dr. Glass taught high school math while earning a master's degree in psychology from Towson State University.
She became interested in the subject of infidelity after learning about a friend who was having an affair, and she pursued the subject in a doctoral program at Catholic University, where she earned her Ph.D. in 1980.
Twelve years later, they founded the Child Development Research Unit at the University of Nairobi to conduct more intensive studies in Kenya.
Dr. Whiting, who joined Harvard's faculty in 1952, became one of the first women at the university to receive tenure when she was named professor of education at the graduate school of education in 1974.
''I think she was exemplary in her willingness to come to her own conclusions and really very bravely act on her convictions,'' said William M. Bulger, a former president of the State Senate and the University of Massachusetts and a native of South Boston.
She graduated from Wheelock Teacher's College in Boston in 1938 and received an education degree from Boston University in 1952 and a law degree from there in 1955.
Edward Mendelson, a Columbia University professor and Auden's literary executor, said in an interview on Thursday that ''Auden in Love'' (Simon & Schuster, 1984) was important because it made it possible to understand the Auden-Kallman relationship, which endured for 34 years, ''in ways that would have been impossible without it.
She earned bachelor's and master's degrees in English from the University of Michigan, where in 1941 she met Mr. Kallman, a graduate student, ''young, blond and deliciously arrogant,'' in her words.
It remains in print as ''When I Was a German, 1934-1945: An Englishwoman in Nazi Germany'' (University of Nebraska Press, 2000).
She was a founding member of the Lowe Art Museum of the University of Miami.
Jane Pierce Evans was born in Hannibal, Mo., and graduated from Vanderbilt University in 1965.
She earned bachelor's degrees at schools in Omaha and New York, and a master's degree in biostatistics from Columbia University.
She earned her law degree at the Georgetown University Law Center.
She attended Syracuse University and the American Academy of Dramatic Arts before landing a role, at age 21, in a comedy revue that poked fun at musical legends like Ella Fitzgerald.
She attended Syracuse University and the American Academy of Dramatic Arts before landing a role, at age 21, in a comedy revue that poked fun at musical legends like Ella Fitzgerald.
Jenifer Greer Estess was born on Feb. 17, 1963, in Moline, Ill., and grew up in Harrison, N.Y. After graduating from New York University with a major in drama, she worked as an actor.
Regina Haimo was born in Philadelphia, grew up in Los Angeles, and graduated from Stanford University.
The cause was pulmonary edema, said Dr. Robert Blum, a friend and colleague, who is a professor of pediatrics at the University of Minnesota.
The Konopka Institute for Best Practices in Adolescent Health, named for Dr. Konopka, is at the university.
Dr. Konopka received a master's degree in social service administration from the University of Pittsburgh and joined the social work faculty at the University of Minnesota in 1947.
Dr. Konopka received a master's degree in social service administration from the University of Pittsburgh and joined the social work faculty at the University of Minnesota in 1947.
She remained a professor at the University of Minnesota until her retirement in 1978.
Dr. Blank, a former social science dean at Hunter and academic dean at Yeshiva University, was acting president of Hunter College from 1993 until her retirement as professor emeritus two years later.
One of her books still in print is ''The Not So Grand Jury: The Story of the Federal Grand Jury System'' (University Press of America, 1993).
Named a full professor in 1968, she was dean of the division of social sciences from 1972 until she joined the staff at Yeshiva University in 1977.
That year, the trustees of the City University recalled her as Hunter's acting president, to replace Paul LeClerc, who became president of the New York Public Library.
She graduated from Syracuse University and received a master's degree in Scandinavian drama from the University of Minnesota.
She graduated from Syracuse University and received a master's degree in Scandinavian drama from the University of Minnesota.
She swept onto the food scene in the early 1970's when she became a hostess at the Swallow, a restaurant at the University of California Art Museum in Berkeley.
She inaugurated the series of ''Working in the Theater'' seminars, held twice a year at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York and shown on cable television.
''Her testimony would help people understand the clinical impact of a cult's manipulation and exploitation,'' said Dr. Richard Ofshe, a sociology professor at the University of California at Berkeley who worked with Dr. Singer for 20 years.
Margaret Thaler Singer was born in Denver and earned her bachelor's degree, master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of Denver.
She spent much of her career at Berkeley, but also taught at the University of Rochester and Albert Einstein College of Medicine, among others.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Dr. Jeffrey Elman, a close friend and a colleague at the University of California, San Diego.
Elizabeth Ann Bates was born Wichita, Kan. After graduating from St. Louis University, she earned a doctorate in human development from the University of Chicago.
Elizabeth Ann Bates was born Wichita, Kan. After graduating from St. Louis University, she earned a doctorate in human development from the University of Chicago.
