A former head of the Department of Psychology at New York University, he died in 1960.
Born in Cedar City, Utah, Helen Foster attended the University of Utah as well as Yanjing and Qinghua Universities in Beijing.
In 1925, she went to England, earning an agriculture degree from Reading University.
Thanks to a wealthy uncle, she also studied agriculture at Cornell University in the United States.
She studied journalism at George Washington University and, years later, studied architecture and real estate management at the University of Houston.
She studied journalism at George Washington University and, years later, studied architecture and real estate management at the University of Houston.
She continued her musical and theatrical studies at Northwestern University, but her degree was in speech pedagogy.
In a career in which, in 1921, she became the first woman to teach at the University of Puerto Rico and later established the departments of history and social studies there, Dr. Barbosa became such an authority on Puerto Rican political history, from the movement for autonomy from Spain in the late 19th century to the drive for statehood in the 20th, that she was named the commonwealth's official historian in 1993.
''It was an intellectual watering hole,'' said Gonzalo Cordova, a friend who began teaching history at the university the year she retired.
He was a black man who was so outraged at being denied higher education by the Spanish that after graduating first in his class at the University of Michigan medical school in 1882 -- and even then allowed to practice in Puerto Rico only after the intervention of the American consul in San Juan -- that he became a leader of the autonomy movement.
When she began teaching at the University of Puerto Rico in 1921 she was still an undergraduate herself, and the university was little more than a teacher's college.
When she began teaching at the University of Puerto Rico in 1921 she was still an undergraduate herself, and the university was little more than a teacher's college.
After graduating in 1924, she moved on to Clark University in Worcester, Mass., receiving a master's in 1925 and a doctorate the next year.
A daughter of Polish immigrants, Ida Rutenberg earned a bachelor's degree in English literature at Sophie Newcomb College of Tulane University in New Orleans.

        Catherine Scorsese, the mother of the film director Martin Scorsese, who cast her in several of his films, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
She studied journalism at the University of Wisconsin, then moved to Manhattan, where she worked at Macy's.
Miss Garbousova taught at the Hartt School of Music in West Hartford, Conn., and at Northern Illinois University in De Kalb and gave master classes at many other schools.
Ms. Seidman got a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Miami in 1959.
The following year she earned a master's degree in economics at Cornell University.
She also did graduate work at Columbia University after coming to the United States in 1941.
In January 1942 she joined the staff of the Chinese History Project, sponsored by the University of Washington and Columbia.
Mrs. Hewitt held degrees in food and nutrition from the University of London and Columbia University.
Mrs. Hewitt held degrees in food and nutrition from the University of London and Columbia University.

        Eleanor Prescott, a producer for ABC News, died on Sunday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
Ms. Prescott was born in Detroit and attended Barnard College and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, where she was the first woman to serve as editor of The Columbia Daily Spectator, the student newspaper.
In later years she was an instructor at the journalism school and at Fairleigh Dickinson University.
Dr. Wu, the Michael I. Pupin Professor Emeritus of Physics at Columbia University, where she carried out research and taught for 37 years, was known throughout her career as a meticulously accurate experimental physicist who was in demand to put new theories to the test.
She received a bachelor's degree from National Central University in Nanjing in 1936 and a doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley in 1940.
She received a bachelor's degree from National Central University in Nanjing in 1936 and a doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley in 1940.
She taught at Smith College and Princeton University before being asked to join the Manhattan Project, the Army's secret project to develop the atomic bomb in World War II.
The university's president, Robert F. Goheen, said in presenting it in 1958 that Dr. Wu had ''richly earned the right to be called the world's foremost female experimental physicist.
But her adviser at the University of Wisconsin told her, she once said, that the female mind was ''incapable of grasping mechanics or higher mathematics.
She is believed to be the first woman to earn a degree in mining engineering at the university.
In 1935, she married Henry Simon, an assistant professor of education at Teachers College at Columbia University and the brother of the publisher Richard L. Simon.
She attended Smith College and graduated in 1937 from the University of Michigan.
After obtaining a doctorate in public law from Columbia University, she taught sociology and political theory.
She studied art history at Yale University, graduating cum laude in 1984.
That year, she left the museum to work as a critic and independent curator while earning her master's degree at the Institute of Fine Arts of New York University.
She entered the University of Louisville at 16, but never received a formal degree.
After graduating from Brooklyn College, she attended New York University Law School, where she graduated at the top of her class.
After graduating from Brooklyn College, she attended New York University Law School, where she graduated at the top of her class.
She gave her farewell recital in 1982 but continued teaching voice at the University of Toronto.
In the late 1960's, as a student at the University of Maryland, she became involved in protests against the Vietnam War and left school.
She taught courses on free expression at Queens College of the City University of New York and the New School of Social Research, and wrote and lectured widely on freedom of expression.
Born in New York, she attended the Ethical Culture School, Fieldston and the University of Iowa and studied at the drama workshop of the New School for Social Research and the Actors Studio.
Ms. Bernstein is survived by her daughter, Jessica, a graduate student at University of California at Berkeley; her mother, Sara Sherman of Los Angeles, and three brothers, Alan and Victor, both of Los Angeles, and Sheldon, of San Diego.
      
''The Newman arrived almost a week ago and I'm just beginning to recover,'' she wrote in 1950 after buying a first edition of John Henry Newman's ''Idea of a University'' (1852) for $6.
She attended Smith College and then the University of Pennsylvania from 1922 to 1925, the year she married Edward A. Norman, the son of a founder of Sears Roebuck.
She attended Smith College and then the University of Pennsylvania from 1922 to 1925, the year she married Edward A. Norman, a son of a founder of Sears Roebuck.
The former Carol Dariff was born in the Bronx and graduated with a bachelor of arts degree from New York University, followed by graduate studies at Columbia University.
The former Carol Dariff was born in the Bronx and graduated with a bachelor of arts degree from New York University, followed by graduate studies at Columbia University.
A native of Manhattan, she was attending the Columbia University School of Journalism in 1923 when she married Jesse Sharp, an up-and-coming developer and expert in real estate finance.
She also was a past chairman of La Maison Francaise at New York University.
Miss Frooks, who received a degree from the old Hamilton Law School in Chicago and then a master's from New York University, was a lawyer at 21, by her account.
Several members of her mother's family were pharmacists, too, and in time Mrs. Petry graduated from the College of Pharmacy at the University of Connecticut and went to work at her father's store.
Dr. Charles D. Stiles, a professor of microbiology and molecular genetics at Harvard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Institute, said Dr. Sager had made a ''revolutionary discovery'' while doing research at the Rockefeller Institute, now Rockefeller University, and later at Columbia University.
Dr. Charles D. Stiles, a professor of microbiology and molecular genetics at Harvard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Institute, said Dr. Sager had made a ''revolutionary discovery'' while doing research at the Rockefeller Institute, now Rockefeller University, and later at Columbia University.
Dr. Lawrence Bogorad, the Maria Moors Cabot Professor of Biology emeritus at Harvard University, said the alterations that Dr. Sager achieved ''in the way people thought about extranuclear genetic material, that is, genes in the cell outside the nucleus,'' had proved to be highly significant.
Dr. Sager was born in Chicago and received a bachelor's degree in 1938 from the University of Chicago and a doctorate in 1948 from Columbia.
She graduated from Finch College in 1969 and studied English at Columbia University's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences.
She was a member of the board of the Irvington Institute for Medical Research and the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University.
She was a past chairman of the building fund for the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center and chairman of the Hadassah Medical Organization, one of the Mideast's largest medical care and research institutions.
The Hadassah Medical Organization comprises, besides Hadassah-Hebrew University Center, the Hadassah Hospital on Mount Scopus in Jerusalem and 10 other medical school, institutes and health care centers.
She was born in Germantown, Wis., and graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1929, the year she joined the staff of the Metropolitan.
Although she retired from Sarah Lawrence in 1975, she never retired from teaching, and at the time of her death she was offering courses at the Juilliard School and New York University's Tisch School of the Arts.
After the war, Miss Schonberg's parents separated and her mother returned with her children to the United States and taught music at the University of Oregon in Eugene.
Miss Schonberg attended that university and met Martha Hill, a dance teacher there who later founded such major institutions as the Bennington School of the Dance and the American Dance Festival.
Mrs. Heins, who was born in Manhattan and whose name was originally Ethel Yaskin, graduated from Douglass College, Rutgers University in 1938.
Ms. Johnson, who was born in Dayton, Iowa, in 1905, was educated at the University of Chicago where she studied art history and literature, and at what is now called Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland.
Ms. Johnson, who was born in Dayton, Iowa, in 1905, was educated at the University of Chicago where she studied art history and literature, and at what is now called Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland.
The institute, begun in 1966 with Dr. Piers as its dean, is a private graduate school and research center for advanced study in child development, affiliated with Loyola University in Chicago.
Dr. Piers, whose father was the composer Karl Weigl, trained as a kindergarten teacher in Vienna and received a doctorate at the University of Vienna.
She did postgraduate work at the University of Basel, in Switzerland, and at Northwestern University, in Chicago.
She did postgraduate work at the University of Basel, in Switzerland, and at Northwestern University, in Chicago.
She taught at Chicago Medical School, the Chicago Institute of Psychoanalysis and the University of Chicago.

        Emily Norris Carey, a foundation executive and philanthropist, died on April 30 at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.
With her husband, she supported Yeshiva University and the Albert Einstein College of Medicne, Long Island Jewish Medical Center and Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel.
Other beneficiaries included the American Society for Technion, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and the Tel Aviv Foundation.

        Selma Weintraub Greenberg, an expert in early childhood education who retired two years ago from Hofstra University as an emeritus professor, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Born in Brooklyn, she graduated from the State University of New York at Oswego and received a master's degree from Queens College and an Ed.D.
Another prominent beneficiary was the Neuberger Museum of Art, which they helped establish on the campus of the State University of New York at Purchase.
Their art collection, deeded to that campus of the university, has been exhibited on loan at museums around this country and in Europe.
''
        She earned a master's degree in public health and took a residency in community and preventive health at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
Born in Los Angeles, she earned one doctorate in English literature and another in linguistics at the University of California at Los Angeles, where she also taught.
She was a contributor to the Oxford University Press International Encyclopedia of Dance, which she helped to edit.
It was at Columbia University that she caught the eye of Mr. Keyserling, a young economics instructor.
''
        In 1989, President George Bush awarded Dr. Esau, professor emerita at the University of California at Santa Barbara, the National Medal of Science.
Dr. Ray F. Evert, the Katherine Esau Professor of Botany and Plant Pathology at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, who accepted the medal on her behalf, said she was the first full-fledged botanist to win that award.
When she was invited to the University of California at Davis in 1927, she arrived with a truckload of beets and beet seed.
Mr. Hencken, who was for many years the curator of European archeology at the Peabody Museum of Harvard University, died in 1981.
The cause was an aneurysm, according to Towson State University in Maryland, where she was professor emeritus of English and until last year directed the women's studies program, which she founded in 1972.
Her writings were published in professional journals and books issued by the Feminist Press at the City University of New York, and elsewhere.
It also ranked among the 10 best-selling titles from university presses.
She received a master's degree in 1950 and a doctorate in 1970 from Harvard University.
Mrs. Sumii is survived by her children, including a son who is a university professor and a daughter who is a journalist and author.
Dr. Bramley, born Jenny Rosenthal in Moscow, earned a bachelor's degree at 16 at the University of Paris.
She promptly sailed to New York, where she began her graduate studies at New York University.
She earned a doctorate in 1929 at 19, and university officials said she became the first woman to receive that degree in physics from an American institution.
She did research at Johns Hopkins University and the University of Michigan and taught at Brooklyn College and New York University.
She did research at Johns Hopkins University and the University of Michigan and taught at Brooklyn College and New York University.
She did research at Johns Hopkins University and the University of Michigan and taught at Brooklyn College and New York University.
Correction:  July 9, 1997, Wednesday
        An obituary of Dr. Jenny R. Bramley on June 2 incorrectly described the doctorate in physics she received at New York University in 1929.
It was not the first awarded to a woman by an American university.
Later, she joined the faculty of the University of Arizona School of Nursing.
A native of Chrisney, Ind., Ms. Wolanin graduated from the University of Arizona and received a master's degree from the University of Arizona School of Nursing.
A native of Chrisney, Ind., Ms. Wolanin graduated from the University of Arizona and received a master's degree from the University of Arizona School of Nursing.
The corporate boards she was on over the years included those of the Mobil Corporation, Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, Trans World Airlines, Revlon, Inc., Harte-Hanks Communications, the Hanes Corporation and the Bendix Corporation
        During her career, she was also a director of nonprofit institutions including Oberlin College, Howard University and Tuskegee Institute.
She graduated in 1943 from Oberlin College and received a law degree in 1946 from the University of Chicago.

        Bluma L. Trell, whose unbridled enthusiasm brought ancient Greece alive to a generation of New York University students even as her meticulous research into ancient coins had given scholars their first definitive view of the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Englewood, N.J. She was 94 and had lived until last year on Bleecker Street in Manhattan.
The daughter of Max Popkin, a successful portrait painter who helped establish the Grand Central Galleries, Dr. Trell grew up in a genteel Bohemian atmosphere in New York, surrounded by music and art, none of which explains why at the age of 21 she received a law degree from New York University and embarked on a decade of private practice.
She was an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the State University of New York's Health Science Center at Brooklyn.
She graduated in biochemistry from Oxford University and earned a Ph.D. in biochemistry from Rockefeller University in 1966 and a master's degree in public health from Columbia University in 1973.
She graduated in biochemistry from Oxford University and earned a Ph.D. in biochemistry from Rockefeller University in 1966 and a master's degree in public health from Columbia University in 1973.
She graduated in biochemistry from Oxford University and earned a Ph.D. in biochemistry from Rockefeller University in 1966 and a master's degree in public health from Columbia University in 1973.
She was born in Ingersoll, Ontario, and graduated from Stanford University, where she also earned a master's degree and a doctorate.
She received a master's degree in Italian literature from Columbia University.
She met Norman Chandler, the son of Harry Chandler, publisher of The Los Angeles Times, at a dance at Stanford University, and they married in 1922.
In later years, Mrs. Chandler served on numerous boards and Presidential commissions, devoting special attention to the University of California.
She graduated from Japan Women's University and became active in 1920 in the women's suffrage movement.

        Jeannette E. Fleischner, a professor of education at Columbia University Teachers College who devoted her career to the advancement of children with disabilities, died last Saturday at Benedictine Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 57 and lived in Woodstock, N.Y., and on Manhattan's Upper West Side.
Harriett Rosen Taylor was born in the Bronx, was reared in Brooklyn and graduated from Brooklyn College and Columbia University Law School.
She assumed senior status last year to teach a course, ''Effective Lawyering: The View from the Bench,'' at Stanford University, and resumed her judicial role in Washington last month.
With a strong interest in legal education, she took part in the Trial Advocacy Workshop at Harvard University and played the judge in many high school and college moot court competitions.
Mrs. Smith, whose maiden name was Epperson, was born in the small Iowa town of Eddyville and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Iowa.

        Loretta Blum, a fashion retailer in Dallas for more than 20 years, died on Saturday at Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas.
Ms. Blum was born in Kehoka, Miss., attended Ohio State University and graduated from the Tobe-Coburn fashion school in New York City.
      
''
        She was born in Homestead, Pa., and graduated from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.
Born in Detroit, Mrs. Peet, who was known professionally as Margot Sherman, was the first female graduate of the journalism department at the University of Michigan, where she was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, the national honors society.

        Anna Balakian, former chairman of the department of comparative literature at New York University and an internationally recognized scholar in the fields of Symbolism and Surrealism, died on Tuesday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island.
Dr. Balakian earned a bachelor's degree at Hunter College in 1936 and  master's and Ph.D. degrees at Columbia University in 1938 and 1943.
Toward the end of World War II, she was appointed instructor and then assistant professor of French at Syracuse University.
In 1953, Dr. Balakian began her career at New York University as an instructor in French, eventually moving into the field of comparative literature.
After Mr. Lopata died of liver disease in 1991, Mrs. Lopata and her children gave $1.5 million to the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington, Conn.
In 1992, Mrs. Lopata established the Herman Lopata Chair in Liver Disease Research at Yeshiva University's Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
In 1975, she helped lead the Presidential campaign of Terry Sanford, then the president of Duke University, and in 1985 she played a similar role for Bruce Babbitt.
She was a national officer in the American Association of University Women, played a pivotal role in ending the organization's practice of racial segregation in the 1940's and headed a task force on the status of women and their employment opportunities after World War II.
Lucy Somerville graduated from Randolph-Macon Woman's College in 1916 as a member of Phi Beta Kappa and went on to study at Columbia University, where she attended political rallies and meetings and regularly visited settlement houses.
''
        Back home, she earned her law degree with highest honors at the University of Mississippi in 1922 and practiced law until her appointment as Judge Lucy five years later.
''
        After Miss Jepson retired from the stage in 1947, she became a speech therapist in New Jersey schools, and taught speech therapy at Fairleigh Dickinson University.
''The child is the one who needs to be protected,'' Dr. Munk would often remind her staff of clinical social workers in the Parent-Infant Therapeutic Program at Gouverneur Hospital, an affiliate of the New York University School of Medicine and member of the Health and Hospitals Corporation.
Dr. Munk, who was born in Berlin in 1925, studied at the Hamburg University School of Medicine and at the University of Neurology and Psychiatry in Hamburg.
Dr. Munk, who was born in Berlin in 1925, studied at the Hamburg University School of Medicine and at the University of Neurology and Psychiatry in Hamburg.
She was a psychiatric consultant to the Brooklyn Juvenile Court, the Max Planck Institute in Munich and the New York Foundling Hospital and was a clinical associate professor and supervisor in child psychiatry at New York University Hospital.
He was succeeded by her husband, who served also as president, then chancellor, of Bar-Ilan University in Ramat Gan, Israel, until his death in 1979.
She was also involved in fund-raising for the Yeshiva University Women's Organization, the U.J.A.
But by the time she joined the Socialist Workers Party while attending the University of Utah in 1935, her family had already distanced itself from the Mormon Church.
Her grandfather, Joseph Marion Tanner, an educator who was president of Utah State University, became so distraught when the church discontinued its doctrine of polygamy in 1890, bowing to a Supreme Court ruling that polygamy was not a permissible exercise of religious freedom, that he abandoned his six wives and fled to Canada.
Dropping out of college to follow her family to California, she took courses at the University of California at Los Angeles, but she soon left college, first to organize agriculture and cannery workers and later to help establish the Socialist Workers Party in Los Angeles, where she and another party organizer, Murry Weiss, began a romance that led to marriage.
In 1972, after receiving a degree in political science from New York University, she found she could not get a teaching job, and worked as a proofreader as a member of the International Typographical Union.
From 1975 to 1983, Miss Clarke was a professor of film at the University of California at Los Angeles.
Over the years, she received many awards and honors, including honorary degrees from universities ranging from the Catholic University of the Sacred Heart in Rome to Harvard.
As a graduate student, she worked at Harvard University with Henry Bigelow, the founder and first director of Woods Hole.
A Radcliffe College graduate, she received a master's degree in architecture from Columbia University.
A native of Philadelphia, she graduated from New York University in 1940 and the following year married David Jablow.
She became the dean of the School of Social Work at Boston University in 1954.
She attended Clark College, then a Catholic school for women in Dubuque, Iowa, then entered the University of Wisconsin, where she concentrated in English, Spanish and Portuguese, earning her bachelor's degree in 1948.
When she could not find something suitable, she went to Washington, where she became a registrar in the Institute of Languages at Georgetown University.
''
        Born on April 20, 1940, in Madrid, Ms. Miro studied law at the University of Madrid but switched her interest to cinema and began working at state television in 1960.
Ms. Devroy was born in Green Bay, Wis., and graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1971.
Her other beneficiaries included Girls Town in Jerusalem, Miami University and various other institutions..
        She helped establish the National Parkinson Foundation in 1957 with her husband, Nathan Slewett, a lawyer who became its chairman in 1981.

        Dr. Mina S. Rees, a mathematician who broke new ground for women as a university administrator and a leader in the sciences, died on Saturday at the Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan.
At home in abstract and applied mathematics, Dr. Rees was founding president of the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York.
At home in abstract and applied mathematics, Dr. Rees was founding president of the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York.
She completed graduate studies at Columbia University, where she also studied law.
She received a Ph.D. in mathematics from the University of Chicago in 1931.
She became the first dean of graduate studies at CUNY in 1961, when the university drew up its doctoral programs.
She was named president of the graduate division in 1969 and president of the newly consolidated Graduate School and University Center on 42d Street in 1971, before retiring the next year.
She graduated from New York University in 1921 and married Benjamin Gottesman, a banker and investment manager, the same year.
The couple's financial support of Yeshiva University resulted in the establishment of the Mendel Gottesman Library, named after Mr. Gottesman's father, the endowment of a chair in Library Sciences and creation of the Benjamin Gottesman Presidential Lecture Series.
The family's involvement with the university covered 75 years.

        Marian E. Koshland, an immunologist and professor of molecular and cell biology at the University of California at Berkeley who studied the ways antibodies fight off disease, died on Tuesday at Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley.
The cause was lung cancer, the university said.
Dr. Koshland, who was born in New Haven on Oct. 25, 1921, received a bachelor's degree from Vassar College in 1942, a master's degree from Vassar the next year and a doctorate from the University of Chicago in 1949.
After two years as a fellow in the department of bacteriology at Harvard University, she joined the staff of the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, first as an associate bacteriologist in the biology department and, from 1963 to 1965, as a bacteriologist.
She was the first chairwoman of the board of trustees at the University of Rochester in New York.
In 1943, Miss Dwyer graduated from the University of Rochester with a bachelor's degree in economics and worked in New York City as a statistical clerk for Western Electric, an AT&T manufacturing subsidiary.
In 1953 Miss Dwyer received a master's degree in economics at New York University and became  chief economist at Western Electric in 1972.

        Dr. Hadassah Rosensaft, who is credited with having saved hundreds of Jewish inmates while a prisoner at Auschwitz, died on Friday in Tisch Hospital of New York University Medical Center.
Hadassah Bimko Rosensaft studied medicine at the University of Nancy in France, received her doctorate as a dental surgeon there in 1935 and practiced dentistry in her native city of Sosnowiec in southern Poland from then until August 1943, when she was sent to the Auschwitz concentration camp along with her parents; her first husband, Josef Preserowicz, and their 5 1/2-year-old son, Benjamin.
''
        In 1962, Miss Harshaw became a professor of voice at Indiana University, where she taught until 1993.
A native of LeRoy, Ill., Mrs. Church, who grew up doing chores on a family farm (and never tired of telling her pampered sons how easy they had it), met her husband at the University of Illinois, where she received a degree in home economics.
There she worked at John Murray's and Chatto & Windus before joining Oxford University Press.
She received her doctorate from the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.
She was born in Huntington, W. Va., attended Bryn Mawr College and graduated from Ohio State University.

        Mary Brooks Griswold, who served four terms in the Connecticut legislature after the death of her husband, A. Whitney Griswold, a Yale University president, died on Nov. 15 at Fox Hill Village in Westwood, Mass.
Mrs. Tatkon graduated from Cornell University in 1959 with a degree in economics and had been a trustee of the university since 1981.
Mrs. Tatkon graduated from Cornell University in 1959 with a degree in economics and had been a trustee of the university since 1981.
She was born in Chicago and earned her bachelor's and doctorate at the University of Chicago.
Majoring in American literature, she graduated from Middlebury College in 1948 and earned a master's degree the next year at Columbia University.
Claire Falkenstein was born in 1908 in Coos Bay, Ore., and graduated in 1930 from the University of California at Berkeley, where she studied philosophy and anthropology.
Ms. Campbell was born in Chicago and attended Northwestern University and De Paul University.
Ms. Campbell was born in Chicago and attended Northwestern University and De Paul University.
As a Columbia University graduate student, she worked as secretary to the historian Jacques Barzun and the literature professor Lionel Trilling, impressing both scholars so much that when Mary McCarthy abruptly quit her teaching post at Bard College in 1946, they recommended her as a replacement, which is how a 23-year-old secretary came to spend three years teaching literature to returning G.I.
It wasn't easy for a woman to be a scholar in those days, as Dr. Miller discovered when the American Association of University Women rejected her application for a fellowship because she was pregnant.
In 1960, in the pattern of the era, she followed her husband to the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, where he began a long career as a history professor and she helped make feminist history.
With the prodding of a sympathetic state attorney general, the university quietly abandoned a nepotism rule, allowing her to teach in the same department with her husband.
Her book, ''Shylock on the Stage'' (Western Reserve University, 1960), traced the way the moneylender in ''The Merchant of Venice'' was played by great actors, including Charles Macklin in 1741, Edmund Kean in 1814, Edwin Booth in 1861 and Henry Irving in 1879.
Mrs. Lelyveld, the former Toby Bookholtz, received her bachelor's degree in 1933 and her master's degree in 1943, both from Teachers College of Columbia University.
She taught at Teachers College, the University of Omaha, Western Reserve University, the Columbia University School of the Arts and the Juilliard School.
She taught at Teachers College, the University of Omaha, Western Reserve University, the Columbia University School of the Arts and the Juilliard School.
She taught at Teachers College, the University of Omaha, Western Reserve University, the Columbia University School of the Arts and the Juilliard School.

        Rosemarie Rogers, a scholar of international migrations and former academic dean at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, died on Nov. 28 at her home in Cambridge, Mass.
The cause was multiple myeloma, a form of bone-marrow cancer, said her husband, Peter P. Rogers, a professor of environmental engineering at Harvard University.
Dr. Rogers was born Rosemarie Straussnigg in Klagenfurt, Austria, and studied at the Universities of Vienna and Innsbruck, the University of Texas and the Sorbonne.

        Annette Barbara Weiner, an anthropologist and former dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at New York University, died on Dec. 7 at her home in Greenwich Village.
She was born in Philadelphia, graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1968 and received a doctorate from Bryn Mawr College in 1974.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. William E. Mitchell, a retired professor of anthropology at the University of Vermont; a daughter and son by her first marriage, Linda Hoffman Matisse of Groton, Mass., and Jon Winer of Owings Mills, Md.
She received a bachelor's degree from City College of New York, where she met Mr. Allison, and a master's degree in fine arts from Columbia University.
Ms. Steel ran out of money after a year at Boston University, and attended New York University's School of Commerce for two years, studying marketing.
Ms. Steel ran out of money after a year at Boston University, and attended New York University's School of Commerce for two years, studying marketing.
''
        She received a bachelor's degree from Brigham Young University in 1927 and a master's from Teachers' College, Columbia University, in 1930.
''
        She received a bachelor's degree from Brigham Young University in 1927 and a master's from Teachers' College, Columbia University, in 1930.
Odonna Mathews, who worked with Mrs. Peterson as a University of Maryland undergraduate intern and now holds Mrs. Peterson's old position at Giant, said: ''Her friends in consumer activism asked, 'How can you work for a business and represent the consumer?
In 1948, she was in the world premiere of Kurt Weill and Arnold Sundgaard's folk opera, ''Down in the Valley,'' at Indiana University and repeated her role on television.
A typical Geng piece was a crazed amalgam of stock phrases, as in an imaginary wedding announcement reprinted in her 1984 collection, ''Partners'': ''The bride, married at the Presbyterian Church and Trust, is an alumna of the Royal Doulton School and Loot University.
''
        She attended the University of Pennsylvania.
Born in New York and a lifelong resident, she graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Hunter College in 1929, and in 1931, she became one of the first women to finish New York University Law School with a J.D.
She earned a Ph.D. in political science at Columbia University in 1939.
Dr. Weintraub was also chairwoman of the department of political science until 1960 and then associate dean of graduate studies at City University of New York until 1968.
Her model was sent to a colleague, Dr. Robert W. Holley, in a Christmas card, according to lore at Cornell University, where she worked in molecular biology from 1965 until close to her death.
degree at the University of Chicago in 1940, and her Ph.D. at Cornell University Medical College in Manhattan in 1948.
degree at the University of Chicago in 1940, and her Ph.D. at Cornell University Medical College in Manhattan in 1948.
She worked at the Huntington Memorial Laboratory of Massachusetts General Hospital and at Harvard University, the United States Public Health Service and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology before Dr. Holley recruited her to join Cornell.
''
        The judge behind these rulings is a 51-year-old with a master's degree in Chinese history from Columbia University and a law degree from Cornell.
She grew up in Detroit and graduated from the University of Michigan.
A native of Seattle, Mrs. Rockefeller studied at the University of Washington and Finch College in New York, majoring in psychology.
