First, though, she taught in a nursery school and earned a master's degree in elementary education at Columbia University.
''
        After taking some courses at the University of London, she worked in Naples and England studying a kind of mollusk.
First, though, she taught in a nursery school and earned a master's degree in elementary education at Columbia University.
Sarah Jewler was born on May 18, 1948, in Washington and graduated from George Washington University.
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Jennifer Thelen of Richmond, Calif.
        Dr. Thelen, a psychology professor at Indiana University, was known for studying childhood development through the conceptual framework called dynamic systems theory.
''She had a profound impact on the way people think about how kids develop,'' said Dr. John Spencer, a psychology professor at the University of Iowa, a friend and former colleague of Dr. Thelen's.
She attended Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, and in 1977 she received a doctorate in biology from the University of Missouri.
She was a member of the university's psychology department until she left for Indiana in 1985.
In ''Confrontation on Campus'' (New American Library, 1969), she described sit-ins at Columbia University and elsewhere.
She graduated from Syracuse University with a degree in history and journalism.
She was a trustee of Barnard, a fellow of Berkeley College at Yale University and a director of the Legal and Education Fund for the National Organization for Women.
That same year at a coffee house near the university she met Enrique Magriña, a law student.
She attended the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan, then received a Bachelor of Science degree from SUNY Cortland and a master's in sociology at the University of Wisconsin in Madison.

        Myriam J. Altman, an appeals judge of the New York State Supreme Court since 1994, died on Jan. 29 at New York University Hospital.
She graduated from Barnard College in 1959 and received her law degree from New York University Law School in 1963.
After graduating in 1930 from the Wadleigh High School for Girls, an integrated school in Harlem, she spent two years at the Howard University School of Fine Arts, where she was encouraged by her teachers but had to drop out because of the Depression.
She followed him when he taught at Black Mountain College in Ashville, N.C.; Brandeis University in Boston; and Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine.
In 1971, they moved to Seattle, where Mr. Lawrence took a teaching position at the University of Washington School of Art and Ms. Knight had her first one-woman exhibition in 1976.
Born in Seoul, Ms. Joh attended American missionary schools and graduated from Ewha Women's University, where she eventually became director of the music department after earning a master's degree in music at the University of Michigan.
Born in Seoul, Ms. Joh attended American missionary schools and graduated from Ewha Women's University, where she eventually became director of the music department after earning a master's degree in music at the University of Michigan.
She taught music theory and composition in the United States before switching her profession to microbiology and biochemistry, receiving a master's degree in science from Wayne State University.
Her memoir, ''The Lighthouse Keeper's Wife,'' first published when she was in her mid-80's, was reprinted by the University of Maine Press in 1999.
from the University of Maryland in 1946.
She got her doctorate from New York University in 1969.
She grew up in Chicago, where she acted in the theater as a child and briefly attended the University of Chicago.
But she decided to switch her profession to psychotherapy, and attended New York University for her bachelor's degree and Columbia University for a master's.
But she decided to switch her profession to psychotherapy, and attended New York University for her bachelor's degree and Columbia University for a master's.
''
        Dr. Buckley was born Sonja Grob in Zurich and received her medical degree in 1944 from the University of Zurich, where she was later an instructor in microbiology.
She earned a law degree from Emory University, where she also did her undergraduate work.
She earned a bachelor's degree from Bard College and a master's in library science from the University of Chicago.
Her cousin Martha Fleming said she died at the University Hospital of the Medical College of Georgia after a stroke that she had on Feb. 17.
Intending to become a history teacher, she attended Western Reserve University (now Case Western Reserve) but was forced to drop out in her freshman year because of the Depression.
Miriam Hansen, a professor of English and cinema and media studies at the University of Chicago, said Ms. Fittko became well known in postwar Germany because Germans liked to find and honor people who resisted Hitler.
It was translated into French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Japanese, and, in 1991, into English by Northwestern University Press.
Howard Eiland, who translated them as ''The Arcades Project,'' published in 1999 by Harvard University Press, said the contents of the lost briefcase remained a mystery.
She met Ms. Stern in 1930 while she was a senior at New York University and Ms. Stern was a freshman at Barnard.

        Katherine A. Lathrop, a pioneering researcher in nuclear medicine and a member of a University of Chicago team that developed an isotope widely used to locate and diagnose cancers, died on March 10 at a nursing home in Las Cruces, N.M. She was 89.
''
        Katherine Gray Austin was born in Lawton, Okla. She graduated from Oklahoma State University, where she also received a master's degree in chemistry in 1939.
She next joined the staff of the Argonne Cancer Research Hospital, now the Franklin McLean Memorial Research Institute, which is affiliated with the University of Chicago.
She attended Barnard College and Columbia University and studied at the Union Theological Seminary.
''
        Barbara Denning was born on Feb. 26, 1929, in Pueblo, Colo. After graduating from Stanford with a degree in international relations, she received a master's degree in political science from the American University of Beirut.
Until her retirement in 1985, Dr. McCaslin was a professor of educational theater at New York University; she continued to teach at N.Y.U.
She wrote two college textbooks considered classics in the field: ''Theater for Children in the United States: A History'' (University of Oklahoma, 1971) and ''Creative Drama in the Classroom and Beyond,'' to be published by Allyn & Bacon this spring in its eighth edition.
She earned bachelor's and master's degrees from what was then Western Reserve University and, in 1957, a Ph.D. from N.Y.U.
She joined the university's faculty in 1972 and from 1973 to 1985 was director of undergraduate studies at N.Y.U.
from Mills College in 1968, she worked at The New Yorker briefly, attended Brown University to work toward a master's, then left to become an editor at New York magazine, where she stayed for 10 years before going to Parents.
She left in 1963, when her husband, an assistant dean at Columbia University and a church deacon, accepted a post at Robert College in Istanbul.
Born in New York City, Ms. Burton began her studies of Asian theater at the University of Wisconsin in Madison.
She studied Indonesian dance and music at the Center for World Music in Berkeley, Calif., and at the University of Hawaii, supporting herself by working as a nightclub dancer and in a cruise-ship act, the Real Sisters.
Ms. Burton received a doctorate in performance studies from New York University in 2000.
In addition, she taught world dance in the theater program at the Eugene Lang College of the New School University and in the theater arts department at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
In addition, she taught world dance in the theater program at the Eugene Lang College of the New School University and in the theater arts department at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
John Green, a specialist in religion and politics at the University of Akron, credited Mrs. Knippers with changing people's ideas about what it meant to be a Protestant.
Before earning a master's degree in sociology of religion at the University of Tennessee, she married Edward Knippers, an artist who paints biblical scenes.
Interested in art as a child, she veered toward math and science, earning bachelor's and master's degrees in chemistry at the University of Alberta in Edmonton.
With teaching jobs for women scarce, Ms. Levine began studying art intermittently at the University of Regina.
She earned a master of arts (1970) and a master of fine arts (1971) from University of California, Berkeley, whose well-known ceramics faculty included Peter Voulkos.
She earned a bachelor's degree in English from Stanford University in 1953 and a master's in journalism from Stanford in 1968.
At the time of her death, she was also an attending surgeon in the Breast Service of Memorial Sloan-Kettering's Department of Surgery, and a professor of surgery at Cornell University School of Medicine.
From 1980 to 1984 she was an assistant professor of surgery at Emory University School of Medicine and was on the staffs of Grady Memorial and Emory University Hospitals.
From 1980 to 1984 she was an assistant professor of surgery at Emory University School of Medicine and was on the staffs of Grady Memorial and Emory University Hospitals.
She financed a scholarship in art history at Yale University and in 1960 endowed the Jaffe-Friede Art Gallery at Dartmouth College.
There she served as deputy director of the Human Rights Institute at the University of Central America, where six Jesuit priests and two others were assassinated in 1989.
She had an undergraduate degree from the University of California, San Diego, a master's degree in women's studies from Goddard College in Vermont and a law degree from the Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of California, Berkeley.
She had an undergraduate degree from the University of California, San Diego, a master's degree in women's studies from Goddard College in Vermont and a law degree from the Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of California, Berkeley.
Carolyn Brady was born on May 22, 1937, in Chickasha, Okla. She received a Bachelor of Fine Arts in painting from the University of Oklahoma in Norman in 1959 and went on to earn her Master of Fine Arts degree at the same school in 1961.
Her death was announced by her son, Roger Wilkins, the Robinson professor of history and American culture at George Mason University.
Helen Natalie Jackson was born in Minneapolis and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Minnesota in 1928.
Louise Arnold was born in Manhattan on Sept. 2, 1937, and earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago.
Ann Theresa Toglia was born on June 18, 1948, in Mount Vernon, N.Y. She earned a bachelor's degree in English in 1970 from the State University of New York, Purchase.
Clare Lynch was born in Manhattan on April 23, 1943, and graduated from the State University of New York at Cortland in 1965.
With her sister, Doris Zames Fleischer, Ms. Zames wrote ''The Disability Rights Movement: From Charity to Confrontation'' (Temple University, 2001), a historical survey.
She earned an undergraduate degree from Brooklyn College and a doctorate in mathematics from New York University.
Her father was a scientist at Charles University in Prague, where she would earn a master's degree in biology and chemistry in 1964.
Dr. Komarkova studied at the University of Colorado, Boulder, and earned a Ph.D. in biology in 1976.
It was published as a two-volume book, ''Alpine Vegetation of the Indian Peaks Area'' (Cramer, Vaduz; 1979), and remains the definitive work on the subject, according to her adviser, Patrick Webber, now of Michigan State University.
She stayed with the university's Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research for several years, climbing the tallest North American mountains and meeting many of the women she would later join on the Himalayan expeditions.
In 1986, Dr. Komarkova moved back to Europe to join the staff of the American College of Switzerland, a campus of Schiller International University, at Leysin.
''
        In addition to buying, wearing and collecting clothes, many of which she donated to museums' costume institutes and various charities, Mrs. Kempner served on a number of charitable boards and benefit committees, gave occasional courses in couture at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and at New York University, and flirted with a number of other careers.
Earlier, in the 1930's, Robert Maynard Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago and a philosopher of education, had admitted academically superior 16-year-olds as freshmen.
Inspired by Mr. Wilson, Ms. Washington earned her bachelor's degree in business from Northwestern University in 1941.
The mayor said his mother had graduated from New York University in the same year.
Born Hildegarde Loretta Sell in Adell, Wis., to German immigrant parents, she began her career in Milwaukee at the age of 16 when, as a music student at Marquette University, she played the piano in a silent movie house.
Born Hildegarde Loretta Sell in Adell, Wis., to German immigrant parents, she began her career in Milwaukee at the age of 16 when, as a music student at Marquette University, she played the piano in a silent movie house.

        Sue Gunter, a pioneering women's college basketball coach who turned Louisiana State University into a national power in a career spanning four decades, died yesterday at her home in Baton Rouge, La.
The cause was respiratory failure, the university announced.

        Judith Rossner, a novelist who used crisp, piercing prose to tell of women pushed to often grotesque extremes, most famously in her 1975 book ''Looking for Mr. Goodbar,'' died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
Ms. Phillips, a native of St. Louis and a graduate of Lincoln University in Jefferson City, Mo., became a schoolteacher and a vocal coach later in her career.
''
        Mary Ann O'Brian was born on March 13, 1913, in Altoona, Pa. She earned an undergraduate degree from Pennsylvania State University in 1937, married a professor and moved with him to New York.
The university is also the distributor of a book she wrote with several colleagues, ''Dancing by the Book: A Catalogue of Books, 1531-1804, in the Collection of Mary Ann O'Brian Malkin.
Mrs. Wein was a founder of the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women, a charitable organization, and established the Joyce and George Wein Professorship Fund in African-American Studies at Boston University and the Alexander Family Endowed Scholarship Fund at Simmons.
It is the George and Joyce Wein Chair in African-American Studies at Boston University, not the George and Joyce Wein Professorship Fund.
      
She was not encouraged to attend college but graduated as an adult from the Pennsylvania School of Horticulture for Women (now part of Temple University) in 1954, when she started her own greenhouse business.
She earned an undergraduate degree from Ouachita Baptist College and a master's degree from the University of Texas.
In particular, she directed the legal campaign that resulted in the admission of James H. Meredith to the University of Mississippi in 1962.
''
        Charlayne Hunter-Gault, whose admission to the University of Georgia was engineered by Mrs. Motley's legal finesse, described her courtroom cunning.
Her father worked as a chef for various Yale University student organizations, including Skull and Bones.
She decided to attend Fisk University, a black college in Nashville, partly because she had never been to the South.
''
        After a year and a half at Fisk, she transferred to New York University.
''
        Mr. Meredith's admission to the University of Mississippi in September 1962 was a major victory for the civil rights movement.
In 1987, she explained it to Nancy Carol Joyner of Western Carolina University: ''I said if Nixon was elected president I was going back to Europe.
She also taught at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, where she lived on and off throughout her life.
She attended William Paterson College and Rutgers University and from 1967 to 1976 was a reporter and editor at The Bergen Record.
Justice Sussman grew up in Schenectady, N.Y. She graduated from Smith College in 1980 and received her law degree from Georgetown University's School of Law in 1983, then became an assistant prosecutor in the Manhattan district attorney's office.
She earned an undergraduate degree from Jackson College of Tufts University, and her medical degree from the Medical College of Wisconsin in 1974.
Ms. Wilson earned a bachelor's degree in education, with a concentration in special education, from the University of Missouri in 1973; she married a fellow student, Paul O. Wilson, the next year.
Ms. Wilson is survived by her husband, a Republican political consultant; a daughter, Casey Rose Wilson, of New York City and Los Angeles; a son, Fletcher Todd Wilson, a student at the University of Pennsylvania; her father, Marion Higdon, of Pensacola, Fla.; and a brother, Bruce D. Higdon, also of Pensacola.
Toni Trent Parker was born in 1947 in Winston-Salem, N.C. She earned a bachelor's degree in history from Oberlin College in 1970, and did graduate work at the University of California, Berkeley.
The family moved to the United States, where Mr. Yard became the director of religious activities for Northwestern University -- until he angered superiors there with his work as a civil rights and labor organizer.
From 1964 to 1990, she was adjunct professor of conservation at the Institute of Fine Arts of New York University.
She attended Johns Hopkins University, ran a nursery school with her sister and worked as a fashion model.
In 1936, she earned a medical degree from the University of Paris.

        Vivian Malone Jones, who on a blisteringly hot June day in 1963 became one of two black students to enroll at the University of Alabama after first being barred at the door by the defiant governor, George C. Wallace, died yesterday in Atlanta.
Her entrance to the university came as the civil rights struggle raged across the South.
On June 12, the day after Ms. Jones and James Hood were escorted into the university by federalized National Guard troops, the civil rights leader Medgar Evers was shot to death in Jackson, Miss.
On May 30, 1965, Ms. Jones became the first black to graduate from the University of Alabama in its 134 years of existence, earning a degree in business management with a B-plus average.
The first African-American at the university, founded in 1831, was Autherine Lucy, who arrived in February 1956 to pursue a master's degree in library science.
Hood left the university after two months, saying he wanted to avoid ''a complete mental and physical breakdown.
'' He transferred to Wayne State University in Detroit and graduated with a bachelor's degree, having studied political science and police administration.
returned to the University of Alabama and earned a doctorate in higher education in 1997.
She earned a bachelor's degree at Alabama A&M, a predominantly black university, but it lost its accreditation.
To get an accredited degree, she applied to the University of Alabama's School of Commerce and Business Administration and was admitted as a junior.
No bomb materialized, but that November, there were three bomb blasts at the university, one of them four blocks from her dormitory.
The university hired a driver for her, a student at Stillman College in Tuscaloosa named Mack Jones.
In a speech to University of Alabama graduates in 2000, Ms. Jones suggested one lesson that might be taken from her historic experience: ''You must always be ready to seize the moment.
In her teens she won a scholarship to Juilliard, but it was decided that living in New York would cost the family too much money; she studied classical music at Howard University in Washington instead.
The gift that gave her the most satisfaction, she said, was one of her earliest and least heralded: the Enid A. Haupt Glass Garden, a playground for children who are patients at the Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine at New York University Medical Center.
Enid Annenberg was born in Chicago on May 13, 1906, and grew up in Milwaukee, where she attended the German-English Academy, now the University School.
She attended Temple University but did not earn a degree.
Ruth received bachelor's and master's degrees in English literature from Northwestern University and was afterward the head of the English department at Kentucky State College.
In 1931, she married J. Max Bond and followed him to the University of Southern California, where he earned a doctorate in sociology.
Bond joined her husband in Alabama, she planned to finish her doctoral studies, but there was no local university at which she could enroll.
She received a master's degree from the Harvard University Graduate School of Education in 1987 and taught high school science and health classes in the Bronx for five years.
She earned an undergraduate degree in home economics from Purdue University in 1953, and after graduation took a job at the General Foods plant in Evansville, where she worked on flours and cake mixes.
She attended the University of California, Berkeley, worked on the copy desk of The San Francisco Examiner for a while and tried her luck as a magazine writer in Spain.

        Rona Jaffe, the preternaturally youthful writer whose 1958 novel ''The Best of Everything'' told the melodramatic story of four nubile, cashmere-sweatered career girls torn between storybook romance and cutthroat corporate Manhattan, died yesterday at University College Hospital in London, where she was on vacation.
''
        In 2004, the Paula Cooper Gallery presented an exhibition of Ms. Tanaka's late paintings and drawings, which ran concurrently with an exhibition of her works from the 50's and 60's titled ''Electrifying Art'' at New York University's Grey Art Gallery.
      
Leona Joan Nevler was born in Lynn, Mass., and earned a bachelor's degree in English from Boston University in 1947.
In the 1980's she helped found the American Nurses Credentialing Center, which now administers testing for more than 20 medical specialties and, said Catherine L. Gilliss, dean of the Duke University School of Nursing, ''helped to standardize across the nation just what to expect from your nurse.
Margretta Madden was born in Mount Union, Pa., and earned an undergraduate degree from Juniata College, a master's from Yale and a doctorate in education from the University of Florida.
She was dean of nursing at the University of Texas at San Antonio; then at Wayne State University, in Detroit; and finally at the University of California, San Francisco.
She was dean of nursing at the University of Texas at San Antonio; then at Wayne State University, in Detroit; and finally at the University of California, San Francisco.
She was dean of nursing at the University of Texas at San Antonio; then at Wayne State University, in Detroit; and finally at the University of California, San Francisco.
The same year, Mrs. Littauer was introduced to Joost Crouwel, who had just earned a degree in classical archaeology from the University of Amsterdam and was beginning his doctoral thesis on Mycenaean chariots.
Dr. Crouwel became professor of Aegean archaeology at the University of Amsterdam.
She later was a story specialist for the Pittsburgh Public Schools and joined the faculty of the University of Pittsburgh School of Information Sciences, from which she retired as a professor emerita in 1978.
Her most ambitious achievement was her editing of The International Encyclopedia of Dance for Oxford University Press.
Ms. Cohen was born in Chicago, attended elementary and high school at the University of Chicago Laboratory School and went on to the university itself, receiving a Ph.D. in English in 1946.
Ms. Cohen was born in Chicago, attended elementary and high school at the University of Chicago Laboratory School and went on to the university itself, receiving a Ph.D. in English in 1946.
She began teaching English at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1946 and, at the same time, worked with the Los Angeles teacher and choreographer Eugene Loring.
Ms. Cohen was a member of the first National Endowment for the Arts Dance Panel in 1966; organized a critics' conference at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn., in 1970; and taught over the years at many colleges, including the University of Chicago, where she returned to head summer seminars from 1974 to 1976.
Ms. Cohen wrote and edited several important books, among them ''The Modern Dance: Seven Statements of Belief'' (Wesleyan University Press, 1966), an anthology of essays by contemporary choreographers; ''Doris Humphrey: An Artist First'' (Wesleyan, 1972), a biography of a pioneering modern dancer; and ''Next Week, Swan Lake'' (Wesleyan, 1982), a study of dance aesthetics.
