Before the semifinals, she told her husband she was nervous and wanted to quit the Olympics because of the pressure.
The selection of Ms. Ripley was mired in controversy from the beginning, in part because it was less than clear that Mitchell, who refused to write a sequel herself, would have wanted anyone else to try.
Ms. Ripley made no bones about why she wanted the assignment.
Her first, ''All You've Ever Wanted and Other Stories,'' was published 50 years ago.
Joan'' in Berlin, she wanted to be an actress.
God, it was about 9 o'clock, and who wanted to go down in that basement to sleep anyway?
'' The transcript, which Ms. Gamarekian had originally wanted sealed indefinitely, then became public.
I always wanted to get closer to her.
''In her own words, she had wanted to be a social worker if she had not been queen,'' he said.
She declined the title of queen mother and chose to be called princess instead because she wanted to stress that she was taking a step backward.
''When we got to somebody's house for dinner,'' she told The New York Times in 1996, ''no woman wanted to sit near him.
In stalking a Henry James phrase she wanted to include in the 15th edition, she considered skimming his entire works, but chanced upon a magazine article about Truman Capote that attributed the lines to ''The Middle Years,'' an autobiography of James.
''He used to ring a bell when he wanted my mother.
If he wanted to get out of something, he would have managed.
Unperturbed by the naysayers, Mrs. Lauder lived life vigorously, taking from it what she wanted and rejecting things that would take her away from the people and places she knew.
''
        Bob Moses, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee's Mississippi field secretary in the 1960's, talked in an interview about the reign of terror of white supremacists whom he said wanted to eliminate the leadership of the N.A.C.C.P.
Although she wanted to be a writer, Ms. Danziger began working as a substitute teacher in 1967 and taught at the junior high school level for several years.
''I knew immediately that I wanted to sing opera,'' she told The New York Times in 1988.
By the sixth grade, she wanted to be a doctor.
The Life article angered the hospital administrators, who said the hospital wanted to be famous not for its dying patients, but rather for those it saved.
Emerson requested that she be sent to Vietnam because she had been in that country in 1956 and wanted to go back to write about the Vietnamese people and the immense unhappy changes in their lives, not a subject widely covered by the huge press corps who were preoccupied with covering the military story.
''
        In a 1987 interview, Miss Wray said she had been sent a script for the 1976 remake of ''King Kong,'' in which Jessica Lange played Kong's co-star, because its producers wanted her to play a small role.
'' He wanted her to read the summary line, '''Twas beauty killed the beast.
She threw herself into studies at the Cordon Bleu and later joined the Cercle des Gourmettes, a club where she met Simone Beck and Louisette Bertholle, two cooking enthusiasts who wanted to write a cookbook for the American market but lacked the English to do it.
''She became a journalist, although that was an almost recklessly brave thing to do in the chilliest days of the cold war, because she wanted to be with my father,'' Kati Marton said in a telephone interview.
After she saw the movie, she said many times, she never wanted to take a shower again.
      
''We thought someday when we fall off our perches, we wanted our art in a place like the National Gallery, which is open to the public and free of charge,'' Mrs. Meyerhoff said in an interview last year.
She and her brother, Nathan S. Kline (author of ''From Sad to Glad,'' about depression), lived in a house full of art, books and music, with parents who wanted their children to be aware of people different from themselves.
Her father, Teobaldo Tebaldi, was a wounded soldier from the First World War when he met and married Giuseppina Barbieri, a gifted singer who had wanted a musical career but became a nurse.
The credits she designed for the television show ''America's Most Wanted'' may have originated the rapid-fire hyperediting now pervasive in film, television and video art.
Before her death, Ms. Martin specified that she wanted no memorial service or eulogies.
