But the idea that there would be women who wanted to come back was a new idea then, and she saw that and created an institution that made it possible.
As she saw it, two ''hidden dissuaders'' lowered the professional expectations of women: a system of higher education that, first, ignored real differences between male and female patterns of life and, second, did not provide for women who wanted to keep working part time in their fields while raising families.
She declined to settle for the future of a high school teacher, as other  girls with similar interests might have, or a lawyer, as her father wanted, she said.
''I wanted to understand what the world is made of.
If you wanted to go out and say to a soldier, 'How is it, kid?,' you had to bring a minder so the kid says nothing.
She graduated from Radcliffe College in 1954, studied linguistics and originally wanted to become a musician.
''She started to think she wanted to care for kids and went into pre-med,'' said Samuel Howell, her son by a second marriage.
''She ran a tight ship and had an astute way of getting what she wanted done.
Mrs. Hutson wanted to be a psychiatrist but took up library science with the goal of financing medical studies.
A child of her era, she wanted to be a conventional housewife and mother, and for a while she got her wish.
When she and her boyfriend wanted to go skiing, for example, her mother insisted on going along, not simply as a chaperone but because she wanted to take notes.
When she and her boyfriend wanted to go skiing, for example, her mother insisted on going along, not simply as a chaperone but because she wanted to take notes.
She said she knew from the age of 11 that she wanted to be a lawyer, and not long afterward gave her first public speech, in a subway station, while collecting for a Zionist youth organization.
She wanted a resolution calling for an immediate withdrawal from Vietnam and she vowed to take on the military-industrial complex.
She wanted to end the draft.
She wanted national health insurance, money for  day-care centers and housing, and more money for New York City, all to be paid for with billions siphoned from the Pentagon's budget.
She wanted children, nonetheless, and fought for the right to adopt them herself, despite being single.
Maybe not what she had in mind when she was studying opera at the Mannes College of Music in Manhattan, but not at all bad for a Queens-born daughter of a Ukrainian virtuoso who wanted her to play the violin.
When a friend signed up for an oil painting class at a gallery and asked Mrs. Spelce to join her, she agreed, saying she had always wanted to draw.
''
        Encouraged to paint what she wanted, Mrs. Spelce drew on her childhood, sometimes using old photographs as a guide but mainly relying on her memory to create scores of paintings marked by painstakingly detailed foregrounds and shimmering, impressionistic backgrounds.
''
        The New York seminar, modeled after one run by Dr. Berne, was open to any psychotherapists who wanted to learn the new therapy, Dr. Weisberg said.
''George had a preconceived idea, and he made you do his concept of what he wanted,'' she recalled.
For the Brooklyn-born middle daughter of Russian Jewish immigrants, especially one whose mother wanted her to be a boy, the triumph was hardly a fluke.
She was born and raised in Brooklyn, and she wanted to be a lawyer from the time she was 12 years old.
Rona J. Shays, a close friend, recalled that Ms. Perles used to say that her own mother had not wanted her to go to law school and had said to her, ''No one will want to marry you if they think you're smarter than they are.
''Surrounded by all these different personalities, each one wanting to be first among equals, I knew I wanted to be a writer.
In a 1995 interview with The Boston Globe, she said that she never particularly wanted to marry -- ''Seemed like the man just became the woman's child'' -- but had wanted a child.
In a 1995 interview with The Boston Globe, she said that she never particularly wanted to marry -- ''Seemed like the man just became the woman's child'' -- but had wanted a child.
And so, when she created ''Lamb Chop Loves Music,'' Ms. Lewis played the piano in the show, which led Lamb Chop to insist that she wanted to learn to play too.
Ms. Lewis vehemently defended the need to strengthen such protection and then informed Representative Edward Markey, a Democrat  from Massachusetts and chairman of the subcommittee, that Lamb Chop wanted to testify, too.
When, for example, students decided that Brearley's infamous blue tunic and skirt uniforms, which they had long complained made them look like pears, were symbols of regimentation and oppression, she allowed students to wear more or less whatever they wanted.
I just wanted to be a wife.
I just wanted to say that.
I just wanted to be a wife.
I just wanted to say that.
This is swiftly followed by a scene in which they make their way in disguise past wanted posters with their pictures (from their hospital identifications) at the Lwow train station, which is in turn followed by their arrival in Warsaw -- in the midst of the abortive ghetto uprising of April 1943 -- and their immediate arrest on suspicion of being Jews.
To allocate her time, Mrs. Hamerstrom applied the ''Hamerstrom Rule of Thirds'': a third for the worthless red tape that your boss requires; a third for doing what is wanted of you; a third for doing exactly what you please.
Ms. Cochran wanted officers' commissions for the female fliers, but there was pressure on Congress from thousands of civilian men who also wanted Army Air Forces commissions.
Ms. Cochran wanted officers' commissions for the female fliers, but there was pressure on Congress from thousands of civilian men who also wanted Army Air Forces commissions.
Early in life, when she realized she wanted to be a painter, she began studying at the Art Students League in Manhattan and later graduated from Cooper Union.
The Japanese Government was under pressure at the time from groups on the left that wanted to end the security arrangement with the United States.
The authentic street rumba of Havana, whose extravagant, explicit gestures seem more suggestive of mating than of a mating dance, is not something one would have actually wanted to do on a dance floor before the 1980's, or ever on stage.
Dr. Storch is survived by Jean Hewitt, her partner of 20 years, and a  sister, Suzanne Storch of Inverness, Calif.
        (American Medical Association)  Marcia L. Storch wanted patients to help make the decisions.
      
She was put on a life-support system, but when doctors wanted to remove it, her son Henry refused.
Creating a 'Temple' For Performing Arts
        City Center, for which Miss Dalrymple worked so long and hard, was established on West 55th Street in 1943 by Mayor Fiorello La Guardia and City Council President Newbold Morris, who wanted it to be a ''temple for the performing arts,'' offering productions for a top price of $2.
Mr. Puccino said that she wanted to make sure that Peekaboo had been spayed (she was) and that her own two dogs, Lance and Ivy, would be taken care of after she died (he promised her they would be).
