''I never wanted to be anything but a writer,'' she once said, ''but I saw no hope, had no expectations.
Now they wanted to know what happened to that girl.
She said that she had not wanted to distract readers by naming him.
''If anyone wanted to know about any facet of Davis's career, Jane was the authority to call.
''I wanted to study medicine,'' she said, ''but no school in New York would admit a woman, and my family was too poor to send me away to study.
''I wanted to do an album to make my parents happy,'' she said.
''
        She was not sure she wanted the job, which involved reorganizing extensive files, supervising three secretaries and much more.
They wanted to be near the new home of their church.
But she gave up photography in the mid-1980's, saying she wanted to spend her  time reading.
''When I was 12, I fell in love with the theater and knew then what I wanted to do.
''I remember her telling me that it was wonderful because she could choose to be any age she wanted to be, and that she wanted to be 16.
''I remember her telling me that it was wonderful because she could choose to be any age she wanted to be, and that she wanted to be 16.
She signed up for the same reasons many men did at that time, said her husband: ''She wanted to do something for her country.
But she said she never wanted to sacrifice personal happiness for her career.
Although she wanted to stay in the theater, she had no immediate stage prospects and accepted Fox's offer, arriving in Hollywood in 1933.
I decided that I wanted to become a lawyer and represent children.
Asked why she wrote so much, she replied, ''I wanted the money.
''
        Ms. Wyler once recalled that as a girl she ''always had a collection of stones, bugs or leaves and always wanted to know more about nature.
With an older generation of Jewish singers dying off, young musicians who wanted to learn Yiddish folksongs turned to her books and records.
''I wanted something where I could go by myself without anyone ruining it by saying, 'I can't do it this week.
''
        Born in Jerusalem on Dec. 24, 1927, Dorothea Noelle Naomi Porter was raised in Damascus, Syria, and briefly attended the Royal Holloway College in London, until she was expelled because, she once explained, ''I wanted to study art.
Each wanted to adopt eight Korean children, Mrs. Holt later recalled, but each was afraid it would be difficult to persuade the other to take so many.
Miss Wells said that from the age of 5 she wanted to become an actress, and when she grew up she managed to get an audition at Paramount, which led to her career.
''
        ''I wanted to strip myself to see who I was, to see if there was anything there,'' she said.
      
''You could get any effect you wanted with sounds.
Miss Fletcher, who was born in Brooklyn in 1912, wanted to be a writer from childhood.
'' When ''Mary Poppins'' was being readied for publication, Pamela Travers wanted him to do the pictures.
She wanted the nanny to stand in the fifth ballet position, with feet turned out and nearly parallel, but Travers insisted on the more comfortable fourth position, with the feet at right angles.
While both nieces contend that Biala knew she wanted to be a painter from a very early age (before her brother did, in fact), all they know of her artistic education is that at the age of 18 or 19, after a brief period of study at the National Academy of Design, she went to Provincetown, Mass., to study with the painter Edwin Dickinson, whose painterly representation was especially influential on her work.
''Chicago,'' which began life as a stage play in the 20's and then became a vehicle for Ginger Rogers in the 1942 film ''Roxie Hart,'' was a show Ms. Verdon had wanted to do for years.
''I wanted to go to New York and be a real actress.
''Once,'' she reminisced, ''I met a woman who wanted a garden but could not afford one, so we made a deal.
''I always knew what I wanted and figured out a way to get it,'' she told Kathryn Livingston, a New York writer who collaborated on her memoir, ''Yesterday Is Gone,'' recently published in Germany.
He once stood up with a shotgun to members of the Ku Klux Klan who wanted to drive him from a home he had bought in a mainly white neighborhood.
''Every great photographer wanted to work with her.
