''And from that minute, I guess,'' she later said, ''singing was what I wanted to do more than anything else.
After years of teaching at predominantly black grade schools, Miss Delany wanted to teach high-school level domestic science, as home economics was then called.
''I told Jene what I had been doing and also that I wanted a complete change in direction.
I wanted to work on cooling atoms,'' she said.
''
        While visiting New York with the trio, Ms. Springfield recalled many years later, she heard the Exciters' brash, aggressive song ''Tell Him'' coming out of a Broadway record store and decided that she wanted to go pop.
I really wanted to be Mavis Staples.
They wanted it Tuesday.
''I think we made the niche we wanted to make, and I think we are the elegant fashion magazine I wanted to create,'' she said.
''I think we made the niche we wanted to make, and I think we are the elegant fashion magazine I wanted to create,'' she said.
''I already had an international reputation and had done what I wanted to do.
''I always wanted to make my own way in life -- it gives one a nice feeling.
From the start she wanted White Barn, as she called it, to be a sanctuary from commercial pressures, a place where writers could take a chance with their plays and where actors could stretch their talents.
''
        Miss Lortel was frustrated by the success of ''Threepenny Opera'' because she wanted to bring more plays into her theater, so she  persuaded the American National Theater and Academy to support a matinee series as a ''laboratory for innovation.
This was followed by a request from the agent Audrey Wood, who wanted a showcase for a musical, ''No Casting Today.
''I just wanted to create something that was going to give pleasure and be beautiful.
I wanted to broaden the scope of a magazine to go with women's lives.
I never wanted to appeal to everyone.
But I really wanted to make women feel good about themselves, not just about what they wore.
When she wanted to feature the black model on the cover of Glamour in 1968, the issue was debated at every level of the company, all the way up to the president.
On Sunday she called her production manager and said that she wanted to reconfigure the issue to include Ms. Hill as one of the notable women, which she did, beating most monthly magazines to an interview with Ms. Hill.
Finding the book you wanted from the ramshackle stacks in the dimly lit and chaotic shop was known to be such a trial that a competitor created bus stop posters saying, ''Foyled Again?
She wanted to make the dresses.
Dr. Allen sat in the audience when the Committee on Un-American Activities delved into the Ku Klux Klan in 1965, representing the group that wanted the House committee abolished.
''So I wanted to work that in writing.
''It was something I wanted to do.
Then Mrs. Murray wanted a kitchen, and they bought an apartment on Park Avenue.
'' Not much later, at an impromptu party staged by Mr. Gorbachev's roommates for Raisa and her friends, ''I wanted to impress her,'' he wrote, but ''I think I made a terrible fool of myself.
''She wanted to represent the country in a new way.
She wanted her last days to be spent in the little house where she spent most of her life.
''
        In anticipation of her death, she decided in the summer of 1995 to give away most of her life savings, saying there was nothing in particular she wanted to buy and no place in particular she wanted to go.
''
        In anticipation of her death, she decided in the summer of 1995 to give away most of her life savings, saying there was nothing in particular she wanted to buy and no place in particular she wanted to go.
Some people just wanted to touch her, as though she was good luck.
The president told the reporter that it happened just as Miss McCarty said, that she had wanted to do something good with the money she had made.
In a 1996 interview, she insisted that she wanted to play down her quantitative quest.
Mrs. Zimmermann's best-known gift to knitting was a mathematical formula for figuring the proportions of sweaters and other garments, depending on how many stitches per inch the knitter wanted to use.
