Mr. Carey wanted to prevent a neighbor from building on the land.
This tack would continue until the impresario offered something she wanted.
Wanting to be there for their children, she also wanted to be active in the movement.
''They preached about it, and they wanted to let the country know what the South stood for.
''I had never been to China, but being Chinese, I always wanted to go,'' she said.
''For no reason at all, except that she wanted to be able to say that she had accomplished such a difficult feat,'' The New York Daily News said in the caption to a picture on Aug. 12, 1929.
Though in later years, some feminists dismissed Ms. Friedan's work as outmoded, a great many aspects of modern life that seem routine today -- from unisex Help Wanted ads to women in politics, medicine, the clergy and the military -- are the direct result of the hard-won advances she helped women attain.
For the first time, she could be as smart as she wanted, as impassioned as she wanted and as loud as she wanted, and for four happy years she was all those things.
For the first time, she could be as smart as she wanted, as impassioned as she wanted and as loud as she wanted, and for four happy years she was all those things.
For the first time, she could be as smart as she wanted, as impassioned as she wanted and as loud as she wanted, and for four happy years she was all those things.
Though in later years, some feminists dismissed Ms. Friedan's work as outmoded, a great many aspects of modern life that seem routine today -- from unisex Help Wanted ads to women in politics, medicine, the clergy and the military -- are the direct result of the hard-won advances she helped women attain.
For the first time, she could be as smart as she wanted, as impassioned as she wanted and as loud as she wanted, and for four happy years she was all those things.
For the first time, she could be as smart as she wanted, as impassioned as she wanted and as loud as she wanted, and for four happy years she was all those things.
For the first time, she could be as smart as she wanted, as impassioned as she wanted and as loud as she wanted, and for four happy years she was all those things.
They had no thought for the unfeminine problems of the world outside the home; they wanted the men to make the major decisions.
So I wanted to write a novel that would make others feel the history: the pain and fear that black people have had to live through in order to endure.
She wanted to know about the person who ran the restaurant, its history, not just recipes.
''She navigated the difficulties in their lives, so she decided she wanted to do something to help people living with paralysis and established the Quality of Life grants program,'' said Maggie Goldberg, spokeswoman for the foundation.
After graduation, Hollywood beckoned, but her parents, as Ms. Moffo told it, wanted her to be a nun.
Tennessee Williams had written a play called ''The Rose Tattoo,'' and he wanted the renowned Italian actress Anna Magnani to play the lead role, that of Serafina Delle Rose, an earthy Sicilian-American widow looking for love.
When word came that Williams was ready with a new play, ''Orpheus Descending,'' she was told once again that he wanted Magnani to play the heroine, a frustrated Italian-American storekeeper in a small Southern town whose world is torn apart by the arrival of a handsome newcomer.
''That's what she wanted for her students.
''She just wanted to star in her own life, and I think she did.
''I wouldn't have wanted to write like Proust, but I could see what you could do with memory.
''It was just to make sure that the students she came into contact with knew they could do anything they wanted to, and that she was behind them pushing and applauding all the way,'' Professor Munnell said.
But since I was married and wanted a family, I could afford to wait.
And yet in a Handel aria, a Britten cantata or a song by her husband, she could be so revealing you sometimes wanted to avert your eyes for fear of intruding.
She told The Richmond Times-Dispatch that she had always wanted to have a rock band, and hers surely carried her own brand.
Mrs. Levine wrote in a letter to the Bata Shoe Museum this year: ''We wanted to create a shoemaking niche.
We were making very pretty shoes that nobody needed, but everybody wanted.
''I wanted to get all that fleeting excitement down on paper before it passed, or I forgot the true feelings.
She also wanted the museum to welcome art that was excluded elsewhere because it was difficult, out of fashion, unsalable or made by artists who were not white or male or straight.
'' In her 20's, she acted and directed in children's theater in Los Angeles; she moved to New York in the 1960's because she wanted to work on original plays.
She wanted to keep singing ballads, but Atlantic pushed her to try upbeat songs, and she tore into them.
''Given a choice,'' she wrote in her autobiography, ''I wanted to be where the action was.
'' (She chose the name Betty because Basya is pronounced Bahssie and she wanted to avoid the nickname for a cow, Bossy.
''I wanted to give racism a face,'' Ms. Campbell said in an interview with The New York Times Book Review in 1992.
An outspoken advocate of women's sexual empowerment, she also publicly condemned feminists who wanted to ban pornography.
Arab ministers wanted to condemn it as an act of aggression.
Mr. Casey wanted to obtain money from foreign countries in defiance of the ban.
