
        Millicent Carey McIntosh, whose stewardship of the Brearley School and then Barnard College made her a national role model for generations of young women who wanted to combine career and family, died on Wednesday at her home in Tyringham, Mass.
''There was a continuing pain in her heart, because what she really wanted to see was M.S.
The Literary Career She Always Wanted
        Mrs. Lindbergh would never get over her child's death but she went on to bear five more children and to have the literary career she had dreamed of.
He very much wanted her to stand on her own two feet and, in helping her do so, created so much independence that it almost separated them.
Interested in the arts, Miss Koner wanted to study ballet with Michel Fokine, the most important balletic reformer of the early 20th century.
''The producers could not find anyone to scream the way they wanted, so they went back to the dark ages of film and heard mine,'' she said.
''We wanted to celebrate the fact that ordinary people were able to express their rights to free speech and assembly on this spot.
Mrs. Clymer originally wanted to be a science writer, and several of her books sought to teach children about subjects like archaeology.
''I wanted to tell stories to little children, like my own son and his friends who were beginning to find their way in the everyday world of family, play, work, pets, familiar things that they experienced and understood,'' she recalled.
All my feel was for the music and the people who played things you wanted to hear.
''
        But she said she wanted to make a difference, and joined the force.
Katharine Graham's life ended the way she said she wanted it to: ''The only thing I think any of us want,'' she once said, ''is to last as long as we're any good.
After college Miss Welty told her parents that she wanted to be a writer, but she said that her father insisted that she ''learn something to fall back on'' to support herself, so she took advertising courses at the Columbia University School of Business.
For one thing, she said, ''before I get too old, I'd like to do Hedda Gabler,'' and, she added, she wanted to make ''a serious film about Virginia Woolf.
''It gave me time to find my identity apart from my skiing so that when I came back to skiing it was something I wanted to do for me and not because I needed that image from other people,'' she said.
After a year at Marymount College of Virginia in Arlington she dropped out because, she said, ''I wanted to do something, be somewhere, I wanted to be an actress, and to be one, you had to know something of the world.
After a year at Marymount College of Virginia in Arlington she dropped out because, she said, ''I wanted to do something, be somewhere, I wanted to be an actress, and to be one, you had to know something of the world.
Mr. Minnich said, ''Joanne did what she wanted to do, and that was trying to help others.
In 1968, in response to an offer from  William Shawn, the editor of The New Yorker, who was willing to let her write whatever she wanted and at length, Ms. Kael began to review movies for the magazine.
But, she had told friends, she wanted to save enough money to go to law school and decided a quicker way to do so than teaching was to become a part of the film industry.
I have this fabulous husband, the man I always wanted to marry.
I have two fabulous children, which I always wanted, and we're all so happy.
I don't think God wanted a world in which a woman would have to work 14 hours a day to support her family, as my mother had done.
I don't think God wanted a world in which a woman would have to work 14 hours a day to support her family, as my mother had done.
She wanted to be a naturalist and illustrate the species she hoped to discover.
''She wanted to be.
