She was dismissed at the end of the year on the basis that the magazine wanted to change editorial focus.
''
        After Emmett's death, Mrs. Mobley recently told The Times, ''at first, I just wanted to go in a hole and hide my face from the world.
Miss Ellis's parents wanted her to be a painter, but after hearing Geraldine Farrar sing, she once said, ''there was nothing in my mind but opera.
''Somewhere in the middle of doing all this technical research she realized that what she really wanted to do was not study computers but use computers to link people,'' said Brian Reid, who hired Dr. Borg into his research group at the Digital Equipment Corporation's Western Research Laboratory in Palo Alto, Calif., in 1986.
'' She did not get along much better with the Russians, who wanted to put her design skills to work on propaganda posters.
That led to her assembling, in 1966, a group of addicts who wanted to cure themselves without using drugs.
Her tailor-made Hepburn lines included these: ''I've always lived my life exactly as I wanted.
''I wanted to be a mother, a teacher and a housewife,'' she told The New York Times.
''I wanted wallpaper in my novels, cereal bowls, cupboards, cousins, buses, local elections, head colds, cramps, newspapers,'' she wrote in 1998, ''and I abandoned Chekhov's dictum that if there is a rifle hanging over the fireplace, it must go off before the story ends.
Her clubs were for women only, partly because she wanted to protect women from being ogled in coed gyms.
Mrs. Roberts hated to deal with inventory and wanted to find a business in which things like colors and sizes did not matter, she said in an interview with CNNfn in 1999.
Dr. Lazarus started her work in Providence, R.I., in the early 1970's, developing materials to help telephone counselors advise women who wanted to enter or re-enter the work force.
Later, as director of the Center for Women's Careers at Wellesley College, she adopted similar techniques to offer phone counseling to alumni who wanted help with their careers.
Typically, Ms. Miller wanted them to speak for themselves rather than presuming to speak for them.
The countess was the widow of Henri, Count of Paris, whom many royalists wanted to become King Henri VI of France.
With her beauty and wit, and his money, the Guinnesses became the center of young London society, but Diana wanted more.
He asked her if she wanted a job in New York City.
''That was how she wanted to live her life, and that was how she wanted to end it,'' Ms. Clark said on Wednesday.
''That was how she wanted to live her life, and that was how she wanted to end it,'' Ms. Clark said on Wednesday.
''She wanted to be on horseback.
As she put it in her 1958 autobiography, ''I Always Wanted to Be Somebody,'' the club attracted ''the highest class'' of Harlem residents, people, she noted, who ''had rigid ideas about what was socially acceptable.
Her mother wanted her children to be educated, but her father resisted moving to town, Mrs. Foster said in a statement prepared for the Web site of the National Voting Rights Museum and Institute in Selma, which she helped found.
She seemed to many Americans to be the very symbol of the modern, educated, pro-American China they yearned to see emerge -- even as many Chinese dismissed her as a corrupt, power-hungry symbol of the past they wanted to escape.
''She wanted to control her destiny,'' he said, ''and she felt her life was a journey that had concluded.
She advocated a new means of dealing with the aftermath of an affair: absolute honesty about every detail, down to sexual details if the wronged partner wanted to know them.
Mrs. Hicks was the city's most prominent opponent of busing, saying it was not what parents, especially those in her almost-all-white South Boston neighborhood, wanted.
She said she felt that the Boston schools were being made a scapegoat by suburban legislators who wanted nothing more than to meddle in neighborhoods they knew nothing about.
Various groups wanted her to speak, and the marriage proposals kept coming.
''No one before had really listened to troubled adolescents and to what they said they wanted and needed in their lives,'' Ms. Kahn said.
''Louise had so much power and because she and Carmel Snow, the editor of Harper's Bazaar, were close, Louise was able to get whom she wanted, and she asked for Mary Jane a lot,'' said Mr. Solero, who estimates that Mrs. Russell modeled for about 30 percent of Dahl-Wolfe's photos.
