In a business notorious for typecasting, Miss Meadows quickly discovered that every producer wanted to keep  her in the kitchen.
People still wanted to tell her that  "Baby, you're the greatest.
Nan Kempner, a New York socialite and a longtime friend, said, "She had enormous intelligence and curiosity and she wanted to see and do everything.
Indeed, it was while on a tour in 1960 to promote one of her two dozen inspirational titles that she and Ms. Blackburn, who had been living in Chicago, happened to stop off in St. Simons and were so enchanted by the beauty and ambiance of the place that they decided they never wanted to leave.
Although she was often cited as a role model for women who wanted to make their careers as composers, Ms. Gideon was always ambivalent about her status as a pioneering woman, and she disapproved of concert and broadcast series that presented only women's works.
Ms. Clark wanted to be an actress, but, she told The New Haven Register, "I grew so tall I was cast only in men's parts.
Another, Diana, wanted to be a Fascist and succeeded in becoming the wife of Sir Oswald Mosley, the ranking leader of Britain's Fascists.
Late in life, she was asked what sort of funeral she wanted.
" She added that she wanted "streets to be blocked off, dignitaries to declaim sobbingly over the flower-smothered bier, proclamations to be issued -- that sort of thing.
She wanted to feature her acting, not her sex appeal.
" But she added: "I did the comedy because all my life I always wanted to laugh myself.
''She always wanted to make sure that urban renewal was not urban removal,'' her husband said.
More often than not, she did not ask what they wanted but told them what they should have.
She received a belated citation for her bond work from the Treasury in 1965, at which time William H. Neal, at that time the director of the United States Savings Bond Division, credited her with being the first star to offer her services to sell war bonds and the originator of the successful Government plan for payroll deductions for those who wanted part of their salaries set aside for war bond purchases.
At first, she was unable to decide whether she wanted to be a radiologist or a pathologist, so she chose to take her first year of residency at Massachusetts General Hospital, in Boston, since it offered six months of radiology and six months of pathology.
William H. Neal, at that time the director of the United States Savings Bond Division, credited her with being the first star to offer to help sell war bonds and as an originator of the successful Government plan for payroll deductions for those who wanted part of their salaries set aside for war bond purchases.
''She never wanted to let go,'' he said.
The first occurred during a childhood visit to the old Olympic Park in Maplewood, N.J., where she became so enchanted with the flamboyantly beautiful wooden horses whirling around the amusement park's carousel that she promptly announced she wanted one of her own.
and wanted to avoid further accusations of nepotism.
''
        Mrs. Astor, who was brought up in China, said that she wanted to make one more trip there.
The foundation's only mandate was ''the alleviation of human misery,'' but Mrs. Astor decided that since the Astor family money derived in part from New York City real estate, she wanted to return it to the city.
''They were the sort of children who wanted to do something but did not have the proper education, and they realized that,'' she said.
In 1976, Ms. Diamant got a letter from a Norfolk, Va., woman who wanted to be a writer.
"I never wanted to be run of the mill," she told Molly Ivins, the Texas writer who was a friend since 1969 and likened interviewing Ms. Jordan to "a bit like grilling God" because of the care, scholarship and booming authority of her speech.
"The woman wanted to make Picasso jealous.
