Miss Bancroft was entrusted with translating the manuscript into English (Gisevius wanted it published immediately after the coup), but her real job was to make sure he was not a double agent (she concluded he was not) and then to elicit and pass on the detailed information he supplied about the day-to-day shifts of power and strategy within the German Government.
Ms. Krainik was an imposing figure who knew what she wanted for her company and how to get it through inspiration rather than force, although she was not averse to making bold decisions.
She wanted, she said in a 1986 interview, to ''offer people the opportunity to take chances.
Inspired by Charles A. Lindbergh's solo flight across the Atlantic, Ms. Hahn decided she wanted to be ''free,'' she said, and in 1930 she embarked on a journey to Africa, where she worked in a hospital and lived with a tribe of Pygmies.
Sally Bedell Smith, the author of another biography, ''Reflected Glory,'' said in 1996: ''She wanted great wealth and power.
He was going off to war, told friends he was sure he would die, and wanted to produce an heir.
''I wanted to discover a lot of things that I had not done at the age of 19.
She only wanted to save the world.
''If she wanted that result, she would get that result -- legal niceties didn't bother her,'' George DeSipio, a former chairman of the city bar's trust and estates committee, recalled.
''If she wanted that result, she would get that result -- legal niceties didn't bother her,'' George DeSipio, a former chairman of the city bar's trust and estates committee, recalled.
''I wanted to leave Europe,'' she said, ''go as far as possible.
She grew up in a theater-mad household (during the Depression, her father, a shirt salesman, took the family to the theater every week by slipping shirts to the box-office men in exchange for tickets), and all she ever wanted to be was a playwright.
Her own requirement was to find something ''that was work I wanted to do and that made a difference.
''There is nothing more gracious than this,'' the old farmer said worshipfully, according to Mrs. Sumii's account, and she decided that this reverence was so ridiculous that her country had serious problems that she wanted to work to address.
In 1989, when Moscow was permitting record numbers of Soviet Jews and Pentecostals to leave its soil, she declared that the Bush Adminstration wanted to ''get control over the flow'' of emigres.

        Annie Fratellini, who wiggled, waddled and waltzed through big tops in Europe before she opened a college for aspiring circus performers who wanted to follow in her outsized, floppy footsteps, died on Tuesday in Paris.
''I had always wanted to paint,'' she said.
''She was just really a ball of fire with whatever she set her mind to, whatever she wanted to get done,'' said James Bellows, a former editor of The New York Herald-Tribune and The Washington Star who was associate editor of The Los Angeles Times in the late 1960's and early 70's.
She developed her own system of house-hunting, for example, bearing in mind that her husband wanted to spend his shore leave with her but also wanted to be within sight of his ship.
She developed her own system of house-hunting, for example, bearing in mind that her husband wanted to spend his shore leave with her but also wanted to be within sight of his ship.
I'm not a star and never wanted to be one.
Ms. Jepson's attractive lyric soprano, preserved on recordings of excerpts from Verdi's ''Otello,'' and her radiant good looks -- she had blond hair and dark eyes -- made her a favorite of opera fans who wanted to see an American soprano sing beside the more prominent European stars of the day.
Mother said there should be a place where people can die with dignity and know that they are wanted.
Another was a rare interview with Speaker Sam Rayburn (who did not like to be interviewed on camera) and an exclusive interview with Senator Barry Goldwater, who wanted to explain to her why he had voted against the Civil Rights Bill.
She wanted to be on the air herself but in those days, the national reporting staff of CBS was a male preserve.
''From the beginning, one of the things we wanted was to have no racial disputes, no lining of whites up against Negroes.
It was a tribute she had wanted to pay since her student years at Vassar College to America's first female astronomer who was a feminist leader and a distinguished member of the original Vassar faculty.
''From my childhood,'' she said later, ''I have been aware of the problems of my tribe and have wanted to help make our people aware of them.
She wanted to visit friends in North America.
''I wanted to be an engineer, build bridges, but my father nixed that,'' she said.
'' She added: ''It was very painful, it came from guys who wanted to kill me.
If there was only room for one woman in a room, I wanted to be her.
''
        Mr. Lerner and Mr. Loewe apparently wanted her to play a role in their musical, ''The Day Before Spring,'' but MGM held her to her contract.
''Her contributions were always behind the scene, looking until she found the shape that something wanted to take.
