So, when she decided to run for the New York State Assembly in 1964, she said the decision was straightforward: ''The people wanted me.
''She enjoyed a popular audience for her work, and she wanted it in her social life, too,'' Ms. Yost said.
When she decided to run for the New York State Assembly in 1964, she said the decision was straightforward: ''The people wanted me.
''I just knew that I wanted to do it, so I did it whenever I could.
She wanted a job with action, like the men reporters had.
''Geraldine had a vision of the kind of store she wanted to create,'' said Jean Rosenberg, who was the vice president and merchandising director at Bendel's from six months before Ms. Stutz's arrival in 1957 to their joint departure in 1986, after the store was sold to The Limited.
''She wanted to be a pianist, period.
Through its Books Wanted and Books for Sale departments, AB united far-flung collectors with dealers around the world, any one of whom just might happen to have a long-sought title in stock.
She decided that she wanted to be a lawyer, but her family lacked money to send their many children to college.
Hood left the university after two months, saying he wanted to avoid ''a complete mental and physical breakdown.
'' She wanted things just so: she stuck with her drummer, Steve Williams, for 23 years, and her bassist, Charles Ables -- who died in 2002 -- for 33.
When she wanted additional funds, she disposed of cherished possessions, seemingly without a qualm.
In 1983, when she wanted $25 million to provide an ambulatory care center at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, she sold 15 of her French Impressionist paintings, including works by Gauguin, Cézanne, Renoir and van Gogh, to her brother, Walter H. Annenberg, the publisher, philanthropist and former ambassador to Britain.
Much later, when a business associate of Mr. Haupt asked what she wanted as a wedding present, she said orchids, and orchids she got -- 13 tubs of cymbidiums from England.
      
She received a strict Roman Catholic education and first wanted to be a nurse.
