The only people she wanted around her were those who felt for art the way she did.
The War Department had been receiving 10,000 letters a day from women who wanted to serve their country.
She had wanted to compete at the Olympic level, but a skiing accident in which she broke her leg sidelined that ambition.
"
        In the early 1950's, she directed and helped write successful low-budget movies on such sensitive issues as illegitimacy ("Not Wanted"), rape ("Outrage") and pathological murder ("The Hitch-Hiker").
That's all she wanted.
"Bessie lived to be 104, and she lived her life the way she wanted to," she said.
She wanted her life seen not so much as a story of blacks or of women, but of America.
There was one problem with Ms. Morrison's appointment: the faculty search committee wanted a resume.
"We had a wish list of the qualities we wanted," said one member of the committee, Peter Rose, a sociology professor.
"Every day that I'm here," Dr. Simmons said, "I try to be worthy of the kind of person my mother wanted me to be.
"She wanted to keep running the business from home," he said.
They have never been published, her daughter-in-law said, partly because "people wanted gossip about Grace Kelly, but she wouldn't write that.
She graduated with honors from Dorchester High School at 15, and wanted to enter Wellesley College, but her parents thought she was too young and enrolled her at the Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart in Purchase, N.Y. She was also sent to Blumenthal Academy, a finishing school run by German nuns, in the Netherlands, where girls majored in French and German.
She graduated with honors from Dorchester High School at 15, and wanted to enter Wellesley College, but her parents thought she was too young and enrolled her at the Manhattanville College of the Sacred Heart in Purchase, N.Y. She was also sent to Blumenthal Academy, a finishing school run by German nuns, in the Netherlands, where girls majored in French and German.
I always wanted to stretch out and do some things as me, alone, by myself.
