Beside her husband, Mrs. Gruss is survived by a son, Martin D., a daughter, Dr. Evelyn Lipper, a pediatrician and the wife of former Deputy Mayor Kenneth Lipper, all of New York City, and six grandchildren.

       Esther Greenberg, the wife of former State Senator Samuel L. Greenberg, died Wednesday at Florida Medical Center in Lauderdale Lakes.
She was 87 years old and lived in Tamarac, Fla.
        Esther Greenberg, the wife of former State Senator Samuel L. Greenberg, died Wednesday at Florida Medical Center in Lauderdale Lakes.
Ms. Bellin's last stage appearance was at the American Place Theater in 1984 when her husband, Paul Roebling, directed her in ''Zelda,'' by William Luce, a one-woman play about the wife of F. Scott Fitzgerald.
When Mr. Sakharov and his wife were sent into internal exile to the Volga city of Gorky in 1980 because of their human rights activities, Ruth Bonner was allowed to go to the United States to live with her grandchildren, who had emigrated in the 1970's.
''She had a good time with her life,'' added his wife, Carol Sulzberger, a friend of Mrs. Dorsey.

       Margaret Scolari Barr, an art historian and teacher who was the wife and assistant of Alfred H. Barr, the founding director of the Museum of Modern Art, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at New York Hospital.
Margaret Scolari Barr, an art historian and teacher who was the wife and assistant of Alfred H. Barr, the founding director of the Museum of Modern Art, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at New York Hospital.
''It tended to put her in the role as a shy wife.

       Bernice Latrobe Maguire Smith, wife of Gerard C. Smith, who led the United States delegation from 1969 to 1972 in the negotiations on limiting strategic arms, died of cancer at her home yesterday.
Bernice Latrobe Maguire Smith, wife of Gerard C. Smith, who led the United States delegation from 1969 to 1972 in the negotiations on limiting strategic arms, died of cancer at her home yesterday.
''It tended to put her in the role as a shy wife.

       Inna Kitrosskaya Meiman, the wife of a Soviet dissident, died yesterday at the Lombardi Cancer Research Center of Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, three weeks after she was allowed to go abroad for treatment of an inoperable tumor on her neck.
Inna Kitrosskaya Meiman, the wife of a Soviet dissident, died yesterday at the Lombardi Cancer Research Center of Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, three weeks after she was allowed to go abroad for treatment of an inoperable tumor on her neck.
She was the wife of Prof. Naum Meiman, a mathematician who himself had long been denied an exit visa on the ground that he did secret work 30 years ago.
Professor Meiman said last month that he did not think officials might relent and let him follow his wife now that her health had become precarious.
He said that his wife had undergone chemotherapy and four operations and that her only chance lay in American experimental treatment.
Donna Hartman, the wife of Ambassador Arthur A. Hartman, accompanied Mrs. Meiman through routine customs and passport controls.
At the same time, she was, as the wife of one of Jamaica's leading political figures, Norman Washington Manley, a major patron of the arts.
''Take my wife .
'' was among several jokes the comedian cracked at his wife's expense.
Choice of Church or Family
        The abbess of the convent sent her to become a governess at the villa outside Salzberg of Baron Georg von Trapp, a highly decorated submarine commander during World War I, who had retired with his seven children after his first wife's death.
Choice of Church or Family
        The abbess of the convent sent her to become a governess at the villa outside Salzberg of Baron von Trapp, a highly decorated submarine commander during World War I, who had retired with his seven children after his first wife's death.

       Muriel Johnson Berlin, wife of the late Richard E. Berlin, the former president and chief executive of the Hearst Corporation, died Friday after a long illness at her home in Rye, N.Y. She was 72 years old.
Muriel Johnson Berlin, wife of the late Richard E. Berlin, the former president and chief executive of the Hearst Corporation, died Friday after a long illness at her home in Rye, N.Y. She was 72 years old.
She was the wife of Max Frankel, executive editor of The New York Times, and pursued a varied career suited to the frequent changes in his assignments.
Mrs. Gill, the wife of Howard Read Gill, the co-founder and chairman of Golf Digest Magazine, taught remedial reading at New Canaan High School in the 1970's.
As her manager, Mr. Judson also changed his wife's professional name, choosing her mother's maiden name of Haworth and adding a ''y'' to clarify the pronunciation.
But low-budget B movies continued to be Miss Hayworth's lot, except for the 1939 ''Only Angels Have Wings,'' with Cary Grant, in which the director, Howard Hawks, cast her as an unfaithful wife.
She also appeared in ''The Music Man'' (1962), as the mayor's wife; ''Bell, Book and Candle'' (1958); again with Mr. Chevalier in ''I'd Rather Be Rich'' (1964), and as Mme.
Miss Damon was best known to millions of fans as Mary Campbell, the loyal wife of Burt Campbell, on the zany satire of daytime soap operas that ran on ABC from 1977-81.
Mrs. Simon was the widow of Norman Simon, who operated the shops from 1956 until his death in 1980, when his wife took over.

       Anne David, an author and the wife of Hal David, the lyricist, died of lung cancer Friday at her home in Manhattan after a long illness.
Anne David, an author and the wife of Hal David, the lyricist, died of lung cancer Friday at her home in Manhattan after a long illness.

       Phyllis Pratt Nitze, the wife of Paul H. Nitze, a senior arms advisor to President Reagan, died here today at her home.
Phyllis Pratt Nitze, the wife of Paul H. Nitze, a senior arms advisor to President Reagan, died here today at her home.

       Phyllis Pratt Nitze, the wife of Paul H. Nitze, a senior arms adviser to President Reagan, died here today at her home.
Phyllis Pratt Nitze, the wife of Paul H. Nitze, a senior arms adviser to President Reagan, died here today at her home.

       Robina Gallup, the wife of a co-chairman of the Gallup Poll, died Saturday when a car she was driving crashed into a train at a crossing near Halkirk, Scotland.
She was 45 years old and lived in Skillman, N.J.
        Robina Gallup, the wife of a co-chairman of the Gallup Poll, died Saturday when a car she was driving crashed into a train at a crossing near Halkirk, Scotland.
He was sent to prison and, although he was ultimately released, he did not return to his wife and daughter.
She took time out from her career in 1919 to be the wife, briefly, of Count Eugene Dambski, a Polish army career officer, then returned to Berlin to make films.
Her interest in China stemmed from her friendship with Mei-ling Soong, a classmate at Wellesley College, who was later known as Madame Chiang, the wife of Chiang Kai-shek, the late president of Nationalist China.
Born in Australia
        Born in Tasmania, Australia, Mrs. Hammerstein was one of five daughters of Henry James Blanchard, a master mariner, and his wife, the former Marion Parmentier.
' '' Sophisticates and Villains
        Other skillful characterizations included a warmly urbane widow in ''Dodsworth'' (1936), a spurned mistress in the 1937 version of the swashbuckling ''Prizoner of Zenda,'' a disillusioned wife in ''The Hurricane'' (1937) and a sympathetic prostitute in ''Act of Violence'' (1949).
Her early sound films included ''Holiday'' (1930), playing the materialistic sister of Ann Harding, and ''Red Dust'' (1932), in which she portrayed a frustrated wife attracted to Clark Gable.
She was widely known as the sharp-tongued wife of one of the nation's most influential publishers, Henry R. Luce, whose magazines included Time, Life and Sports Illustrated.
Mr. Brokaw, 23 years older than his bride, was a heavy drinker, according to one of his biographers, and was prone to abuse his wife.
Sparks at First Sight of Luce
        Two days after the opening, the author became the wife of Henry R. Luce, publisher of Time and Fortune.
The next time they met, at a party at the Waldorf-Astoria, his future wife resolved to pay Mr. Luce back by asking rude questions.
The play was an apotheosis of feminine bitchiness, concerning a devoted wife, the only sympathetic character, trying to win back her husband, who had been poached by a saleswoman.
Mr. Barenboim was once asked what it was like to accompany his wife.
