
        Mary Lazar, the wife of the literary and talent agent Irving P. (Swifty) Lazar, died last Thursday in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 60.
"The Country Wife" (1950) was an informal discourse on matrimony, parenthood and life as an amateur farmer in Connecticut.
I always felt that being a successful wife was a 24-hour-a-day job.
Before the turn of the century, he abandoned his wife and two daughters.
"I was once the typical daughter, then the easily recognizable wife, and then the quintessential mother.
President Reagan and his wife, Nancy, presented her with the nation's highest civilian award, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, in 1986.
"
        Perhaps her most widely praised performance was as the wife of Dustin Hoffman's Willy Loman in the acclaimed revival of "Death of a Salesman" on Broadway in 1984 and for television in 1985.
In Mr. Nixon's years as Representative, Senator, Vice President, candidate for governor of California, Presidential candidate and President, his wife was a fixture at his side, always seeming to listen raptly to his speeches and maintaining a gracious, if thin, smile.
" Image as President's Wife
        Although her years before the public exceeded those of her two predecessors at the White House, Mrs. Nixon did not seem to stamp her personality on the nation's consciousness.
Instead, her image was of a private, dutiful wife seemingly self-contained and impenetrable.
While he generated controversy with his anti-Communist campaign speeches, his wife was portrayed in the press as projecting what would later be called a "20th-century born-in-a-log-cabin image.
As the President's wife, Mrs. Nixon traveled more than 100,000 miles, campaigning for her husband, accompanying him to foreign countries and, on several occasions, representing him at ceremonies abroad.
Foreign Affairs Duties
        She was the first wife of a President designated to head a United Nations delegation abroad, to the inauguration of President William R. Tolbert Jr. of Liberia in 1972.
Popular With Crews
        One of her most successful films was "Night and Day" (1946), in which she played the wife of the composer Cole Porter, opposite Cary Grant.
"I ended up being the wife of Cole Porter sitting in the audience applauding the composer," she added ruefully.
Her first book, "A Good Man and His Good Wife," with illustrations by the abstract painter Ad Reinhardt, was published in 1944.
Mrs. Kramer became active in civic affairs as the wife of Paterson's Mayor for 14 years, Lawrence (Pat) Kramer.
In 1948, Miss Allen played a distraught wife and mother in "Edward, My Son.
To Hollywood and Back
        In 1931 she played the wife of a steelworker who succumbs to drink in "The Struggle," the last film by D. W. Griffith.
Ms. Dennis was the wife of Eugene Dennis, general secretary of the American Communist Party from 1946 to 1959 and one of 12 American Communists jailed in the late 1940's for violating the Smith Act by conspiring to overthrow the Government.
She was the wife of Ranald H. MacDonald, a governor of the New York Stock Exchange, who died in 1988.
In an act of personal generosity in 1988 that involved an old friend, Miss Duke posted $5 million bail for Imelda Marcos, the wife of the former Philippine president, Ferdinand Marcos, who died in 1989.
She was born in Manhattan on Nov. 22, 1912, to his second wife, Nanaline Lee Holt Inman Duke.
His wife rejoined The Times that year in New York as a women's-news reporter.
Mrs. Luke wrote "Catherine, the Queen" (1967), a portrait of Henry VIII's hapless first wife, Catherine of Aragon.

        Myrna Loy, the urbane actress who personified a liberated wife of intelligence and wry good humor in some of the best American movie comedies of the 1930's and 40's, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
With a pert face, crinkly smile and velvet voice, the auburn-haired actress was universally called the "perfect wife.
Turned Into Ideal Mother
        Eventually, the ideal wife became the ideal mother in such successes as "The Best Years of Our Lives" (1946) and "Cheaper by the Dozen" (1950).
She gained notice for her acting as a predatory countess in the 1932 musical fantasy "Love Me Tonight," which starred Maurice Chevalier; as the materialistic wife of Leslie Howard in "The Animal Kingdom" in 1932, and as the love interest in a 1934 gangster thriller, "Manhattan Melodrama," starring Clark Gable and Mr. Powell.
In Well-Known Comedies
        Later, when she was billed as "Queen of the Movies" and Gable was called the "King," the two were teamed in such madcap adventures as "Wife Versus Secretary," "Test Pilot" and "Too Hot to Handle.
After the war, she portrayed the compassionate, loving wife of Fredric March in "The Best Years of Our Lives," the much-honored 1946 film about servicemen returning from combat.

        Myrna Loy, the urbane actress who personified a liberated wife of intelligence and wry good humor in some of the best American movie comedies of the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
With a pert face, crinkly smile and velvet voice, the auburn-haired actress was universally called the "perfect wife.
Eventually, the ideal wife became the ideal mother in such successes as "The Best Years of Our Lives" (1946) and "Cheaper by the Dozen" (1950).
She gained notice for her acting as a predatory countess in the 1932 musical fantasy "Love Me Tonight," which starred Maurice Chevalier; as the materialistic wife of Leslie Howard in "The Animal Kingdom" in 1932, and as the love interest in a 1934 gangster thriller, "Manhattan Melodrama," starring Clark Gable and Mr. Powell.
In Well-Known Comedies
        Later, when she was billed as "Queen of the Movies" and Gable was called the "King," the two were teamed in such madcap adventures as "Wife Versus Secretary," "Test Pilot" and "Too Hot to Handle.
After the war, she portrayed the compassionate, loving wife of Fredric March in "The Best Years of Our Lives," the much-honored 1946 film about servicemen returning from combat.
