Mr. O'Brien abandoned his wife while she was pregnant and later died.

        Natalya Dudinskaya, who wielded major influence over the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad as its leading ballerina in the 1940's and 50's and as a revered teacher and the wife of its onetime artistic director, Konstantin Sergeyev, died on Wednesday in St. Petersburg.

        Baroness Liliane de Rothschild, the wife of Baron Elie de Rothschild, an art collector, philanthropist and meticulous caretaker of the history of the family she married into, died on Feb. 17 in her home in Royaumont, outside Paris.
But as much as the baron exemplifies the family's grand style, he once said his wife was the family member most steeped in family history, tradition and élan.
In Derek Wilson's book ''Rothschild: the Wealth and Power of a Dynasty,'' the baron said his wife was more Rothschild than the Rothschilds.
In 1941 she originated a role on Broadway that was to remain popular for decades on radio and television: Pam North, the amiably ditzy wife of Jerry North in Owen Davis's 1941 adaptation of Richard Lockridge's detective story ''Mr.

        Elaine Barrie, the fourth wife of the Shakespearean actor John Barrymore, with whom she shared a tumultuous on-again, off-again engagement and marriage that enthralled the nation in the darkest days of the Depression, died on Saturday in Manhattan.
Miss Barrie was the only former wife to attend Barrymore's funeral in 1942.
After Mr. Burack's death in 1978, his wife took over as editor and publisher.
In 2000 the label found her through the saxophonist Lee Konitz and his wife, Gundula.
As she wrote in her 1986 autobiography, ''Zorina,'' she became involved at 18 in an open ménage à trois that included Massine, then the world's best-known choreographer, and his wife, Eugenia Delarova.

        Luella M. Bennack, a supporter of many Texas and national charities and the wife of Frank A. Bennack Jr., vice chairman of the board of the Hearst Corporation and previously its chief executive, died on April 17 at her home in San Antonio.

        Helen Jones Carter, a former sculptor and the wife of the composer Elliott Carter, died on Saturday at the couple's home in Manhattan.
She loved to point out that she had played Charlton Heston's mother twice in films, in ''The Ten Commandments'' (1957) and ''Ben-Hur'' (1959) and his wife twice onstage: in ''Design for a Stained Glass Window'' (1950) and ''The Tumbler'' (1960).
''
        She was born in London to Sir Alan P. Herbert, a member of Parliament, writer and humorist, and his wife, Gwendolen.

        June Carter Cash, a singer, songwriter and actress and the wife and collaborator of Johnny Cash, died yesterday in Nashville.
She played an obsessive mother in ''Sons and Lovers'' (1960), a steadfast wife in ''A Man for All Seasons'' (1966), a fussy Russian princess in ''Murder on the Orient Express'' (1974) and a compassionate nurse in ''The Elephant Man'' (1980).
But after the death of Tracy's wife, Louise, in 1983, Miss Hepburn felt free to discuss the love affair.

        Khieu Ponnary, the quiet Cambodian intellectual who was the first wife of the Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot and a prominent member of the movement in its early days, died on Tuesday in Cambodia.
Once the Vietnamese overthrew the Khmer Rouge in 1979, Pol Pot separated from Khieu Ponnary and took a much younger wife, with whom he had a daughter.
At first she followed conventional naturalistic forms, in ''The Box Garden'' (1977), about the unmarried sister of the protagonist in ''Small Ceremonies''; in ''Happenstance'' (1980), a pair of complementary novellas, one narrated by a wife, the other by her husband; and in ''A Fairly Conventional Woman'' (1982), about a woman who chooses her marriage over an extramarital affair.
Using her nickname, Mr. Welch told his wife, ''Girlie's on the boards, she's doomed.
Born in New York, Ms. Fonaroff began her dance training at 11 with Michel Fokine and Vera Fokina, his wife, and studied the Isadora Duncan style, two experiences that she later told friends suggested to her what dance should not be.
In 1932, she left her husband for Oswald Mosley, the strikingly attractive leader of the fledgling British Union of Fascists, a bold step, not least because he was still married (his wife conveniently died, of peritonitis, the following year).
Although their employers are competitive, husband and wife have never duked it out for a single house -- ''so far,'' said Mr. Bronander, with a gleam in his eye.
The wife of a Saudi delegate, thrilled by a ride on a double-decker New York sightseeing bus, asked her how to buy one and take it home.
They arranged for Gibson to live with Eaton and his wife during the school year, practicing on his court and attending high school, and to spend the summer traveling on the A.T.A.
Ms. Murie is survived by her sister Louise Murie-MacLeod of Jackson, Wyo., who was the wife of Olaus's brother Adolph, who was a National Park Service biologist and an author; two sons, Martin, of North Bangor, N.Y., and Donald, of Palm Springs, Calif.; a daughter, Joanne Miller of Brookline, Mass.
Chiang spoke almost no English, though his wife taught him to call her ''darling,'' and she served as his interpreter, often interspersing her own views.
Madame Chiang's second sister, Soong Qing-ling, was the wife of Sun Yat-sen, China's first president after the last emperor was toppled in 1911.
Chiang had already fathered a son in a marriage that was arranged when he was only 14, and had adopted a second son and married a second wife, Chen Chieh-ru.
Mr. Glass said recently that he and his wife respected each other too much to have had an affair.
After the death of Eddie's actual wife, they were legally married in 1975.
His wife pulled all the stops, using her well-connected British upbringing to plead for her husband at Gestapo headquarters in Berlin.
Ederele was born Oct. 23, 1905, in New York City, one of four daughters and two sons of Henry Ederle, a butcher and provisioner, and his wife, Anna.
