
        Lynne Murray Johnson, the wife of Belton Kleberg Johnson, an heir to the King Ranch in Kingsville, Tex., died on Sunday at her home in San Antonio.
But if you take an American husband, you make the wife rich.
The name was changed in 1928 to honor its patron, Mrs. Whitelaw Reid, wife of an American minister to France in the 1880's.
She was married to Victor for 52 years and for a large part of that time was content to be a wife and mother to her two sons.
' "
        Her son Alan recalled yesterday that the ad campaign was hatched by his father, who convinced his wife, who was at first reluctant, to do it.
It was the home of Fielding Lewis, whose wife, Betty, was George Washington's only sister.
"
        President Clinton said he and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, spoke with Mrs. Onassis over the last several days and had been getting regular updates on her condition.
"She's been quite wonderful to my wife, to my daughter and to all of us," Mr. Clinton said.
" and, "Do you think a wife should let her husband think he's smarter than she is?
In the late 1950's, Mrs. Kennedy confided to friends that she tired of listening to "all these boring politicians," Mr. Heymann wrote, but she did her duty as the wife of a Senator.
At a luncheon at the Elysee Palace, Theordore C. Sorensen wrote in "Kennedy" that President de Gaulle had turned to Mr. Kennedy and said, "Your wife knows more French history than any French woman.
"
        Before she left the White House, she placed a plaque in the Lincoln bedroom that said, "In this room lived John Fitzgerald Kennedy with his wife, Jacqueline, during the 2 years, 10 months and 2 days he was President of the United States -- Jan. 10, 1961 - Nov. 22, 1963.
Miss Troy was applauded for what critics called her sprightly, winning, handsome and vivid performance as Edward Woodward's impatient second wife in the 1964 musical "High Spirits," based on Noel Coward's comedy "Blithe Spirit.
Goethe Festival in 1949
        Modern Aspen was put on the cultural map in 1949 when Mr. Paepcke engaged the Budapest String Quartet for a concert to celebrate his wife's birthday.
The wife of Walter Shorenstein, a national real estate developer, Mrs. Shorenstein was also a substantial contributor to local charities and universities.

        Ann McGarry Buchwald, wife of the columnist Art Buchwald and an author and former literary agent, died on Sunday at her home in Washington.

        Sandra Fisher, a figurative painter and printmaker who was also the wife of the painter R. B. Kitaj, died on Monday at the National Hospital for Nervous Disorders in London.
In 1988, commenting on reports of summit talk tiffs between Nancy Reagan and Raisa M. Gorbachev, the wife of the Soviet leader, Mrs. Klapthor said in an interview in The Times, "It struck me as something that had been manufactured by the press.
After Mr. Kennedy was elected President, his wife made Mrs. Parish a consultant in her redecorating of the White House.
At last night'a Emmy Awards in Pasadena, Calif., Mr. Cronyn was named best actor in a mini-series or special for his performance as a recently widowed man mourning his wife.
During the Guthrie's first season in 1963, for example, Miss Tandy played Gertrude in Hamlet, Olga in "The Three Sisters" and the wife of Willy Loman in "Death of a Salesman.
She played Mr. Cronyn's wife in four of her most recent films, "Honky Tonk Freeway," (1981) "Cocoon," (1984), "Batteries Not Included" (1987) and "Cocoon: The Return" (1988).
"
        Her performance in "Verdoux," in which she portrayed Annabella Bonheur, a raucous, indestructible wife of the killer, was praised as brilliant by Bosley Crowther of The New York Times.
Among other roles, she played an idiosyncratic secretary in George Bernard Shaw's "Candida," an extroverted medium in Noel Coward's "Blithe Spirit" and a shrewish wife in Jean Anouilh's "Waltz of the Toreadors.
She appeared as a prostitute in "The Long Voyage Home," a doomed mother in "The Three Godfathers," a hard-bitten Army wife in "She Wore a Yellow Ribbon" and a sly widow in "The Quiet Man.
The Blumkas counted among their clients Robert Lehman, Belle and Jack Linsky, Marjorie Merriweather Post and Anne Johnson when she was the wife of Henry Ford 2d.
"
        On television, she played Lou Grant's wife on "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" and appeared on "Newhart," "Coach," "Blossom" and "Mr.
President George Bush and his wife, Barbara, who occupied a Towers suite when he was chief United States delegate to the United Nations, returned to visit their friend and neighbor after moving to the White House.
"Only a year ago, when Mayor Giuliani and his wife, Donna, were dining at my apartment," Mrs. Levey said, "she called and asked to speak to the Mayor and gave him half an hour of her advice on running the city.

        Frances Prince Schuman, the founding chairwoman of the National Friends of Public Broadcasting and the wife of the composer William Schuman, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Glaser, the wife of Paul Michael Glaser, a director and actor who starred in the "Starsky and Hutch" television series, was one of several public figures to bring AIDS to the forefront of the 1992 Presidential campaign.
"
        In a statement yesterday, President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, said they were deeply saddened by her death.
Mrs. Glaser, the wife of Paul Michael Glaser, a director and actor who starred in the "Starsky and Hutch" television series, was one of several public figures to bring AIDS to the forefront of the 1992 Presidential campaign.
"
        In a statement yesterday, President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, said they were deeply saddened by her death.
