
        Margaret Hart Ferraro, a New York stripteaser who went on to become a savvy real estate investor, political wife and society matron in Los Angeles, died on Wednesday after a long illness.
He explained that it was not so much because his wife could be seen nude, but because of the look on her face during the sex scenes.
In 1981, she wrote ''Dear Abby,'' a widely quoted editorial about Evangeline Gouletas-Carey, the new wife of Hugh L. Carey, the governor of New York.

        Jeanne Simon, the wife of former Senator Paul Simon who forged her own public career as a prosecutor, lawmaker and lobbyist for literacy and libraries, died on Sunday at their home in Makanda, Ill. She was 77.
She chronicled her experiences on the stump in a well-received memoir, ''Codename Scarlett -- Life on the Campaign Trail by the Wife of a Presidential Candidate.
''
        Sarah Caudwell was born May 27, 1939, to the author and journalist Claud Cockburn and his wife, Jean Ross, the actress and writer who was Christopher Isherwood's model for Sally Bowles in his Berlin stories and the musical ''Cabaret.
The artists who acted on this belief in the late 1940's and early 50's included Robert de Niro Sr. and his wife, Catherine Admiral, Nicholas Carone, Fairfield Porter, Alex Katz and later Nell Blaine, as well as San Franciscans like David Park.
Her father, a Pennsylvania Railroad mechanic, remained in Chicago, visiting his wife and daughter regularly until his death in 1967.
Still another shows Dietrich almost touching heads with Ann Warner, wife of Jack, the studio head, as they intensely discussed never-to-be-known secrets over a smoky table at the Trocadero nightclub in Los Angeles.
'' The studio chief Louis B. Mayer, passionately attracted to her, proposed marriage and promised to divorce his wife.
When Mr. Moore went out to California to play Kingfish on ''Amos 'n' Andy,'' he recommended Ms. Harris to play Kingfish's wife, Sapphire.
Ms. Potter's finely crafted stories offered glimpses into Durham society in the mid-20th century, a world she knew well as a Duke faculty wife.
In other key roles, she was a faithless lover in ''The Amazing Dr. Clitterhouse'' (1938), a conspiratorial killer in ''Murder, My Sweet'' (1945), a vitriolic Broadway actress in ''The Velvet Touch'' (1948), an overprotective mother in ''Marjorie Morningstar'' (1958) and a scornful shrew in two melodramas, ''Two Weeks in Another Town'' (1962) and ''How to Murder Your Wife'' (1965).
She artfully portrayed his vain wife, who consorts with shallow lovers in a futile battle against age.
''
        Her wry, wisecracking persona made her the perfect counterpart to her husband, who based one of the main characters in his 1962 best seller, ''Genius,'' on his wife.
Yet despite the difficulties of her life as a young married woman, she refused to blame the delay in her writing career on her obligations as a wife and mother.
The next year, she married another naval officer, Chief Warrant Officer Francis L. Beardsley, whose wife had recently died of diabetes, leaving him with their 10 children.

        Priscilla Rudin Stern, who took pride in being the daughter, wife and mother of rabbis, died yesterday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Jonathan Stern of Washington, D.C., and Rabbi David Stern of Dallas, whose wife, Nancy Kasten, is also a rabbi; a daughter, Elsie Stern, of Brooklyn; her stepmother, Lili Rudin of New York City;  a brother, Stephen Rudin of Manhasset, N.Y.; a stepbrother, Jeffrey Laikind of New York City; four grandchildren; and nieces and nephews.
That description could be applied to the overburdened wife she played in the 1980 Broadway revival of Osborn's ''Morning's at Seven,'' the patrician publisher on the long-running ''Lou Grant'' television series and her portrayal of Livia Soprano, the monster mother of them all, a woman bred into the Mafia who without a blink of hesitation sets up her son Tony to be assassinated because he has moved her to a nursing home.
When Ms. Marchand played Livia Soprano on ''The Sopranos,'' television viewers wondered how her son Tony, played by James Gandolfini, and his wife (Edie Falco) could put up with her malice and her prejudices.
Miss Benson's books included a novel, ''At the Still Point,'' and biographies of Nelson Mandela and Winnie Mandela, his wife at the time, written while Mr. Mandela was still serving his long prison term and decades before he would become president of South Africa.
''
        When Maria Tereza Goulart, the wife of Brazil's former president, Joao Goulart, visited Ms. Goncalves da Silva to see the Mangueira school for herself, she was reported to have danced until the wee hours.

        Emily Maxwell, the wife of the author and New Yorker editor William Maxwell, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Mr. Maxwell dedicated a number of his books to his wife.
As a diplomat's wife in the early 60's, Ms. Porter traveled to Iran and Jordan, spent holidays in Italy and France and, as she once said, ''went to nightclubs every night and had millions of clothes.
She attired both Jayne Wrightsman, the wife of the oil industrialist Charles Wrightsman, and the actress Jane Fonda as if for a visit to a caravanserai in Kabul.
Miss Young died at the home of her sister, Georgiana Montalban, the wife of the actor Ricardo Montalban, said Norman Brokaw, the chairman of the William Morris agency and her agent for 50 years.
Her movies included ''Taxi'' with James Cagney in 1932; ''Zoo in Budapest'' with Gene Raymond in 1933; ''Man's Castle'' with Tracy, also in 1933; ''Call of the Wild'' with Gable in 1935; ''The Stranger'' with Orson Welles and Edward G. Robinson in 1946; and ''The Bishop's Wife'' with Grant in 1947.
In 1995, Nostalgia Television, a national cable network, began reruns of the original show, the rights to which Miss Young had turned over to her son, Christopher Lewis, and his wife, Linda, who are film producers.
''
        Career Highlights  Films:
        Laugh Clown Laugh 1928
        The Squall 1929
        Loose Ankles 1930
        Kismet 1930
        The Devil to Pay 1930
        Taxi 1932
        Zoo in Budapest 1933
        A Man's Castle 1933
        Call of the Wild 1935
        Ramona 1936
        Suez 1938
        He Stayed for Breakfast 1940
        And Now Tomorrow 1944
        The Stranger 1946
        The Farmer's Daughter 1947
        The Bishop's Wife 1947
        Rachel and the Stranger 1948
        The Accused 1949
        Mother Is a Freshman 1949
        Come to the Stable 1949
        Because of You 1952
        Television:
        A Letter to Loretta (series), 1953-54
        The Loretta Young Show (same series, new name), 1954-61
        The New Loretta Young Show (series), 1962-63
        Christmas Eve (TV film), 1986
        Lady in a Corner (TV film), 1989
        Correction:  August 19, 2000, Saturday  An obituary of Loretta Young on Sunday misidentified ''Come to the Stable.
From 1961 to 1970 she played the role of Louise Capice, an upper-class suburban wife on the daytime soap opera ''The Edge of Night.
The meeting itself was not auspicious: Mr. Amato and Ms. Bellantone had been cast as American Indians, and in one scene Mr. Amato was to throw his future wife to the floor and kick her.

        Patricia Moyes, the British mystery writer who created Detective Chief Superintendent Henry Tibbet and his ''merry and plump and comforting'' wife, Emmy, died on Aug. 2 at her home in Virgin Gorda, in the British Virgin Islands.
His wife became the sole editor and publisher, and persisted in keeping up the newspaper's crusading efforts.
His wife became the sole editor and publisher, and kept up the newspaper's crusading efforts.
Mrs. Bandaranaike rose to power in 1960 as a bereaved wife and mother of three, just a year after her husband, Solomon, then prime minister, was assassinated by a Buddhist monk.
And his wife carried forward his passions with even greater decisiveness and vigor,  historians say.
Then, in 1947, she married the actor Jack Webb, later famous on ''Dragnet,'' and stopped working to be a full-time wife and mother.
She then took a job as an elevator operator in a department store where she was discovered by talent agent Sue Carol, the wife of the actor Alan Ladd.
They married in 1947, and she gave up her budding movie career to become a full-time wife and mother.
She was also, however, the wife of a well-connected partner in a Manhattan law firm and did not simply take the ''no'' of foundation executives.

        Lucia Evangelista, a former soprano, a notable figure in New Jersey cultural circles and the wife of the renowned American bass Jerome Hines, died on Oct. 26 in North Plainfield, N.J. She was 83 and had been suffering from Lou Gehrig's disease.
Captain Cheshire, it happened, had his own charitable foundation, and he first met his future wife when she visited one of his homes for the disabled.
In 1949, she published her second volume of verse, ''Annie Allen,'' a portrait of a Bronzeville girl as a daughter, a wife and a mother, experiencing loneliness, loss, death and poverty.
In ''Force of Evil,'' she played Roy Roberts's sultry, promiscuous wife in a tale about the numbers racket.
''
        Perhaps her best remembered role was in the low-budget ''The Narrow Margin,'' in which she played a sexy gangster's wife with a heart of gravel.
That role spurred Kubrick to cast her as an unfaithful wife in ''The Killing,'' for which she won the best supporting actress award from Look.
Mr. Pett had been drawing for The Daily Mirror since 1932, when he created ''Jane's Journal: The Diary of a Bright Young Thing,'' using his wife, Mary, as a model.
Henry Ford II met his second wife, the Italian-born Cristina Vettore Austin, at one of Mrs. Kanzler's homes.
Mrs. Kanzler was also credited with introducing Henry Fonda to his third wife, Countess Afdera Franchetti, and Oscar de la Renta to Francoise de Langlade, his first wife.
Mrs. Kanzler was also credited with introducing Henry Fonda to his third wife, Countess Afdera Franchetti, and Oscar de la Renta to Francoise de Langlade, his first wife.
Born in Zurich on Jan. 24, 1915, to Giovanni Ravelli, an Italian construction worker, and his German wife, Rosemarie Ravelli was in her early 20's when she left Switzerland with Peter Kreuder, a German theater and film composer.
The others were Joan Crawford and his wife, Phyllis Bounds, also a model.
With Mr. Dowell unemployed at the depths of the Depression, his wife looked in the mirror and saw what just might be a bankable asset.
In 1949  she published her second volume of verse, ''Annie Allen,'' a portrait of a Bronzeville girl as a daughter, a wife and a mother, experiencing loneliness, loss, death and poverty.
