He and his wife had tried to talk to her about the interpretation of the role, but then left her to work on her own and with her director, Garson Kanin.
' ''
        At 20 she married a fellow showboat actor, Jat Herod, a jazz violinist who joined the Army and was soon entertaining troops, as he and his wife continued to do after the war.
He met his future wife, Nanny James Logan, at St. Augustine's.
The paper contained notes for a sketch in which a wife (Ms. Coca) bemoaned the spark gone from her marriage to Mr. Caesar:
        Wife: Where is the sense of adventure?
The paper contained notes for a sketch in which a wife (Ms. Coca) bemoaned the spark gone from her marriage to Mr. Caesar:
        Wife: Where is the sense of adventure?
'' Mr. Bayley's descriptions of his struggle to understand his wife's suffering, to find ways to ameliorate it and to come to grips with the physical demands of his new responsibilities and to understand the conflicting emotions aroused in him by the experience are exact, penetrating and unsparing.
The woman was Rivera's wife, the tortured artist Frida Kahlo, whose husband's philandering gave her reason to fear the worst, but not, as it happened, from Miss Bloch.

        Lila Hotz Luce Tyng, the first wife of Henry R. Luce, founder of Time Inc., died on Wednesday at her home in Gladstone, N.J., five days after her 100th birthday.
Though overshadowed in history by the editor's famous second wife, the author Clare Boothe Luce, Mrs. Tyng played an important role in the life of Mr. Luce, who sought her advice even after they were divorced, said Robert E. Herzstein, a professor of history at the University of South Carolina and the author of ''Henry R. Luce'' (Scribner, 1994).
The young wife hoped that Time's growing success would eventually allow her workaholic husband to join her in the kind of social whirl she loved.
But what years they were, with the promising Pearson, who was not yet the mighty syndicated columnist he later became, taking his young wife  to China and beyond, while he polished his journalistic skills.
In 1957, when his wife told him it was sometimes difficult to find a cab after the theater, he bought a gray Mercedes-Benz.
Mr. Schweitzer initially enjoyed his wife's new enthusiasm and the idea of having actors around the estate in the summer.
John Ruskin (1819-1900) was a British social theorist and critic whose wife, Effie, fell in love with Millais.
Over the next 40 years, during travels in Mexico and through friendships with artists such as Rufino Tamayo and David Siqueiros, they put together a collection of 1,800 paintings and works on paper by, among others, Frida Kahlo, Jose Clemente Orozco, Carlos Merida and Rivera, including the only portrait Rivera ever painted of Kahlo, who was his wife.
Her son, Philip, who survives her, was until last year an executive at Money magazine; his wife, Christina Ferrari, is the managing editor of Teen People magazine.
She married Waldo Pizarro in 1962 and settled into a life as a working-class wife and, later, mother of three children.

        Brenda Hughes Moore, a human-rights advocate and arts consultant and the wife of the Right Rev.
Her husband, whose real name was James Alfred Wight, vividly depicted his wife as the endearing and supportive Helen Herriot in his memoirs, beginning with ''All Creatures Great and Small.
'' Mr. McCormack described Ms. Wight as the model for ''the humorous, loving and, from time to time, tolerating wife of James Herriot.
She soon settled into the role of Kennedy wife, with all the public appearances and public attention that entailed.
Ms. Fleming was born in 1925, the  daughter of the painter Augustus John and of Eve Fleming, the wife of a Maj. Valentine Fleming, Member of Parliament.
In July 1974, the New York State Athletic Commission named Carol Polis, the wife of a former boxer and referee, Bob Polis, as the first woman to be a professional boxing judge in the state.
''
        Later, he said, his wife quipped, ''We're married, and he forgot my name.
In the book, Mr. Braden, a columnist for the Los Angeles Times Syndicate from 1968 to 1986, described his wife's personality: ''She's blithe.
Louise Thompson entered Harlem Renaissance circles through a friendship with the painter Aaron Douglas and his wife, Alta, and she married the writer Wallace Thurman.

        Chan Richardson Parker, known to many in the jazz world as the last wife of Charlie (Bird) Parker, the be-bop innovator, died on Sept. 9 in a hospital in Etampes, France, southwest of Paris.
Robert Dobrish, the lawyer for Parker's estate, said Parker ''thought of her as his wife,'' but they were not legally spouses.
President Boris N. Yeltsin, Mr. Gorbachev's bitter rival in the early 1990's, sent a message of condolence today, and in a statement he said that a ''wonderful person, a beautiful woman, a loving wife and mother is no longer with us.
''
        In his autobiography, published in 1996, Mr. Gorbachev acknowledged that the resentment over his wife's high profile surfaced in letters written to the Communist Party's Central Committee.
''The simplest answer would have been: 'No, she is my wife.
Visiting the United States for the first time in 1987, she irked Nancy Reagan with lectures on subjects ranging from architecture to socialism, reportedly prompting the American President's wife to quip, ''Who does that dame think she is?
As the wife of the Soviet leader, she was enlisted as a board member of the Soviet Cultural Foundation, headed by Dmitri S. Likhachev, one of Russia's most distinguished academicians, which was created to promote the arts and to restore the country's cultural heritage.
''Going from wife of a provincial first secretary to First Lady was a big jump.
Mr. Gorbachev on several occasions acknowledged that he often turned to his wife for advice.
The story has it that after the dollmaker parted from his wife and children he became so sad that he made only crying dolls.
Marilyn Maxwell played the floozy, with Kirk Douglas as the fighter and Ms. Roman as his demure and steadfast wife.
He later started his own publication, with his wife dealing with the bookkeeping and circulation.
She went to Paris with her mother in 1902, moved to St. Petersburg in 1905 and then returned to Paris in 1908, where she was then brought up by her father and his new wife, Vera.
''
        At one point, Mr. Karnow recalled, he moved in with his wife's parents, although he was unsure whether Mrs. Sarraute's ''unpredictable Slavic temperament'' would prove too much.
''
        A 1965 press biography listed some of her character roles as ''a cheating wife, a husband-framing mistress'' and ''the wife of a confessed murderer.
''
        A 1965 press biography listed some of her character roles as ''a cheating wife, a husband-framing mistress'' and ''the wife of a confessed murderer.
''
        Ms. Leslie made her film debut in 1964 in ''Captain Newman, M.D.,'' as the wife of a traumatized Air Force pilot, played by Robert Duvall.
He left the thoroughbred racing to his wife, and when at the racetrack he often said: ''I'm just here to watch.
Mr. Snetsinger said his wife's competitive spirit was kept hidden, though he did not deny it existed.
Foot became chief of the Labor Party in 1980, beginning a three-year leadership that ended with a crushing defeat for the party in 1983, a few asserted that he was being pushed by an ambitious wife.
Lucile Petry, the only child of a high school principal and his wife, was born on Jan. 23, 1902, in Frog Heaven, in Preble County, Ohio.
