Ms. Clark was the wife of Todd Granville Lee, also an urban planner.
As the publisher's wife, Mrs. Sulzberger shared her husband's concerns and problems but remained steadfastly an offstage figure in the operation of the paper.
Enfeebled by a stroke in his last years, Mr. Sulzberger relied almost completely on his wife as his contact with the world.

       More than two dozen artists, writers, art critics, friends and former students paid tribute to Elaine de Kooning, the painter, art writer, teacher and wife of Willem de Kooning at a memorial service last night at Cooper Union in Manhattan.
More than two dozen artists, writers, art critics, friends and former students paid tribute to Elaine de Kooning, the painter, art writer, teacher and wife of Willem de Kooning at a memorial service last night at Cooper Union in Manhattan.
After Mr. Weil died in 1965, his wife became honorary chairman.
Hollywood quickly took notice, and Miss Goddard earned leading comedy roles as an adventuress in ''The Young in Heart,'' as a battling wife seeking a Reno divorce in ''The Women,'' and as Bob Hope's pert romantic foil in ''The Cat and the Canary'' and ''The Ghost Breakers.
Among the movies written by the Spewacks were ''The Nuisance,'' ''Three Loves Has Nancy,'' ''The Gay Bride,'' ''The Cat and the Fiddle,'' ''Weekend at the Waldorf'' and ''My Favorite Wife.
The daughter of Dr. Harry A. Solomon, an internist, and his wife, Ruth, she was born in Manhattan and graduated from Smith College.
Ms. Ireland, the wife of the actor Charles Bronson, told the story of her diagnosis, mastectomy, chemotherapy and self-discovery in her 1987 book, ''Life Wish.
In the mid-1960's she helped integrate the audience for the performing arts in Alabama when she and her husband escorted the city's most visible civil rights leader, Dr. John Nixon, and his wife, Ethel, down the aisle before a performance at the Municipal Auditorium.
''
        Mrs. Richards was born on Aug. 20, 1926, in New Brunswick, N.J. She was the oldest daughter of J. Seward Johnson, an heir to the Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical fortune, and his first wife, Ruth Dill Johnson.
Five years later, after the death of her father, Mrs. Richards and her brothers and sisters went to Surrogates Court in Manhattan to challenge his last will, which disinherited five of his six children and left the vast bulk of his $350 million estate to his third wife, Barbara Piasecka Johnson of Princeton.
''I think she went up to $60,'' recalled Jerry Ford, who runs the agency with his wife, Eileen.
During the 1930's, she appeared in Noel Coward's ''Cavalcade,'' playing a honeymooning wife on the Titanic just before it struck the iceberg.
Set in a small town in Georgia in 1906, her novel centers on a scandal that erupts when a crusty old man marries a young Yankee milliner just weeks after his first wife's death.

       Jill Esmond, a film and stage actress who was the first wife of Laurence Olivier, died on Saturday at her home in Wimbledon.
Jill Esmond, a film and stage actress who was the first wife of Laurence Olivier, died on Saturday at her home in Wimbledon.
'' On television she played Mrs. Wilson in ''Dennis the Menace,'' the cookie-baking wife of the curmudgeon next door.
''
        RKO studios offered Miss Dunne a contract, and after a minor picture called ''Leathernecking'' and six months of drama lessons, she won the leading role of Richard Dix's wife in the 1931 screen adaptation of Edna Ferber's novel ''Cimarron.
''
        Miss Dunne was cast for several years in such tragic and lachrymose roles as a hanidcapped woman in ''Symphony of Six Million''; a banker's self-sacrificing mistress in ''Back Street,'' a hugely popular tearjerker; a troubled wife in ''The Silver Cord,'' in which she challenged a possessive mother-in-law, and a blinded widow in ''The Magnificent Obsession.
In ''Theodora Goes Wild,'' she played a prim New Englander who writes a daring book and tries to live up to it.In several other farces, including ''The Awful Truth'' and ''My Favorite Wife,'' she and Cary Grant chased each other around with lively wit and dizzying backtalk.
RKO studios offered Miss Dunne a contract, and after six months of acting lessons, she won a leading role as Richard Dix's wife in the 1931 screen adaptation of Miss Ferber's novel ''Cimarron.
She was then cast in tragic roles like a handicapped woman in ''Symphony of Six Million''; a banker's self-sacrificing mistress in ''Back Street,'' a harried wife in ''The Silver Cord,'' in which she battled a possessive mother-in-law, and a blinded widow in ''The Magnificent Obsession.
In other farces, including ''The Awful Truth'' and ''My Favorite Wife,'' she and Cary Grant chased each other around with lively wit and dizzying back talk and what Bosley Crowther, then film critic of The New York Times, termed ''pure poetry of motion.
MAGNOLIA, MAMA AND MRS. ANNA
        These are among the more than 40 films made by Irene Dunne during her 22-year film career:
        Cimarron (1931)
        Ann Vickers (1933)
        Roberta (1935)
        Magnificent Obsession (1935)
        Show Boat (1936)
        Theodora Goes Wild (1936)
        The Awful Truth (1937)
        Love Affair (1939)
        My Favorite Wife (1940)
        A Guy Named Joe (1943)
        The White Cliffs of Dover (1944)
        Anna and the King of Siam (1946)
        Life With Father (1947)
        I Remember Mama (1948)
        The Mudlark (1950)
      
Mrs. Mowrer's first book, ''Journalist's Wife,'' appeared in 1937 and was promptly banned in Germany by the Nazis.
''Anthony was content to do the creating and let others do the collecting,'' his wife once said.
"Anthony was content to do the creating and let others do the collecting," his wife once said.
To combat his wife's hesitancy about playing the title goddess, a role originally conceived for Marlene Dietrich, Mr. Halliday took her to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and showed her the many interpretations of Venus in painting and sculpture.
A Gothic tale set along the Hudson River in the 1840's, it was serialized by the Ladies' Home Journal, selected by the Dollar Book Club, translated into nine languages and made into a film starring Vincent Price as a feudal overlord who tyrannizes his tenant farmers, kills his wife and takes up with a distant relative, played by Gene Tierney.
The hiring, the prosecution said, was an inducement to reduce Mr. Capasso's weekly support payments to his wife to $500 from $1,500.
She portrayed a personable waitress trading wisecracks with Spencer Tracy in "Me and My Gal" (1932), a pert sister competing with Katharine Hepburn in "Little Women" (1933) and a psychiatrist's young wife slipping into insanity in "Private Worlds" (1935).
She also won praise as a shrewish, cuckolding wife in Zoltan Korda's "Macomber Affair" (1947), as a deceitful wife in Jean Renoir's "Woman on the Beach" (1947) and as a tormented blackmail victim in Max Ophuls's "Reckless Moment" (1949).
She also won praise as a shrewish, cuckolding wife in Zoltan Korda's "Macomber Affair" (1947), as a deceitful wife in Jean Renoir's "Woman on the Beach" (1947) and as a tormented blackmail victim in Max Ophuls's "Reckless Moment" (1949).
The next year she performed in Paris with the Folies-Bergere, where she met Leonide Massine, the choreographer and dancer, at the stage door and soon after became his second wife.

        Gwen Harold Terasaki, whose book "Bridge to the Sun," about her life as the wife of a Japanese diplomat during World War II in Japan, became a best seller and a movie, died on Saturday after a brief illness.
