Its green-eyed star played Samantha, a witch and the wife of an advertising executive who tried to suppress her supernatural talents yet often resorted to sorcery to solve problems.
Mrs. Phillips worked with a number of social and philanthropic organizations around the world as the wife of a career American diplomat, Christopher H. Phillips.
In 1940, seriously ill after suffering a heart attack, Mr. Smith asked Maine voters to continue his policies by electing his wife to succeed him.
Her best performance was that of an unfulfilled wife who persuades a drifter to kill her husband, in "The Postman Always Rings Twice" (1946).
Reached yesterday at the University of Nevada in Reno, where he and his wife had worked as a team, her husband said the cause of death was a central nervous infection.
Her best performance was that of an unfulfilled wife who persuades a drifter, played by John Garfield, to kill her husband in the screen adaptation of James M. Cain's gritty novel "The Postman Always Rings Twice" (1946).
But when the first big order came in, for two cases, his wife was somewhat unprepared.
Ms. Blackburn won praise for her performance as Zeena, the sickly wife in a television production of "Ethan Frome" in 1960.

        Carol Fox Sulzberger, the wife of Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the chairman of The New York Times Company, and an active volunteer with foundations and social-service organizations, died yesterday at her home in Southampton, L.I.
Mr. Hobby's first wife died a year later.
As the publisher's wife, she became president of the Texas League of Women Voters, a member of the board of the Houston Museum of Fine Arts, a member of the Houston Symphony Orchestra Committee and regional chairman of the Mobilization for Human Needs, all before she was 35.
In 1976, at a time of pressing financial problems for the museum, Mr. Titus and his wife donated $1 million to renovate its 37-year-old auditorium and for its endowment.
"
        She played a femme fatale opposite Dick Shawn in "The Egg" (1962), a woman torn between two men in "Play With a Tiger" (1964) and the wife of Alan King in "The Impossible Years" (1965).
"
        In the course of more than 50 films, Miss Lupino was a spiteful Cockney in "The Light That Failed" (1939), a crazed wife in "They Drive by Night" (1940), a loyal girlfriend in "High Sierra" (1941), an escaped convict in "The Sea Wolf" (1941) and a steely murderer in "Ladies in Retirement" (1941).
Mrs. Roosevelt is survived by three daughters, Susan Roosevelt Weld of Boston, the wife of Governor Weld; Anna Curtenius Roosevelt of Chicago, and Alexandra Dworkin of Baltimore, and five grandchildren.
      
"She gave in and had a telephone installed about 10 years ago so she could keep in touch with all her friends around the world," said Mr. Coleman, who with his wife, Barbara Damrosch, is host of a cable television series called "Natural Gardening.
Professor Johnson -- whose French-born wife, Madeleine, roomed with Professor Kriegel in the 1940's -- said the explanation for her "remarkable career is to be found in her wartime experience" and gave this account:
        "Coming from a Jewish-Alsatian family and having passed idyllic school days in the Marais district of Paris, she encountered the anti-Semitic legislation of the occupation and then the infamous roundup of Jews on 16 July 1942.

        Frances Grant Bennett, wife of the late Senator Wallace F. Bennett and mother of Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, died on Friday in Salt Lake City.

        Mary Beame, the wife of former Mayor Abraham D. Beame, died on Tuesday at the New York Medical Center.
Alexina Sattler was born in Cincinnati on Jan. 6, 1906, the daughter of Dr. Robert Sattler, an ophthalmologist who ran his own hospital with a free clinic attached, and his second wife, the former Agnes Mitchell.

        Lita Grey Chaplin, an actress and Charlie Chaplin's second wife, died today at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital here.
She was less successful in comedy as the lead in "A Mighty Man Is He" (1960), in which she played a beleaguered wife.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, the mother of President John F. Kennedy and of two United States Senators, the wife of a fabulously wealthy businessman-ambassador and the matriarch of a family whose political triumphs and personal tragedies she carried with quiet dignity for 80 years, died yesterday at the Kennedy family compound in Hyannis Port, Mass.
" Early Introduction To Political Life
        Rose Fitzgerald was born in Boston on July 22, 1890, the oldest of six children of an exuberant politician and his wife, the former Josephine Mary Hannon.
Meantime, his wife stayed home on Beale Street in Brookline, near Boston, giving birth to and raising her children.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, the mother of President John F. Kennedy and of two United States Senators, the wife of a fabulously wealthy businessman-ambassador and the matriarch of a family whose political triumphs and personal tragedies she carried with quiet dignity for 80 years, died yesterday at the Kennedy family compound in Hyannis Port, Mass.
" Early Introduction To Political Life
        Rose Fitzgerald was born in Boston on July 22, 1890, the oldest of six children of an exuberant politician and his wife, the former Josephine Mary Hannon.
Meantime, his wife stayed home on Beale Street in Brookline, near Boston, giving birth to and raising her children.
"
        Along with personal friends of Mrs. Kennedy and her children, the congregation of more than 700 included Tipper Gore, the wife of the Vice President, Mayor Thomas M. Menino of Boston and Senators John Kerry of Massachusetts, Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina and John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia, all Democrats.

        Aylin Radomisli-Cates, a psychiatrist who was the wife of the producer Joseph Cates, died on Jan. 17 in a car accident outside her home in Bedford Hills, N.Y. She was 57.
Her father was Dwight Whitney Morrow, Ambassador to Mexico from 1927 to 1930; her sister is the writer Anne Morrow Lindbergh, the wife of the aviator Charles A. Lindbergh.
Yet if there had not been a war on in 1944, and if Princeton had not found itself without a single Russian teacher at a time when there was a sudden, almost panicky upsurge in interest in the Soviet Union, it is doubtful that the university would have allowed the former Ludmilla Buketoff of New Britain, Conn., to be more than a faculty wife, the bride of John Turkevich, a professor of chemistry.
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
