President Ronald Reagan and his wife, Nancy, sent remarks in a videotape.
Mrs. Peskin was the daughter of Louis Schnitzer, founder of the Yiddish Art Theater in New York, and his wife, Henriette, a noted actress on the Yiddish stage.
The London-born actress played the wife of Paul Muni in the Oscar-winning 1937 film "The Life of Emile Zola.
Her credits also included "The Corsican Brothers," "Miss Annie Rooney" and "Dream Wife.
In 1931, she wrote the novel "Kiss and Tell" and the next year she collaborated with her second husband, Lyon Mearson, on the novel "Our Wife.

        Natalie Schafer, an actress best known as the stranded millionaire's wife, Lovey, on the long-running television series "Gilligan's Island," died on Wednesday at her home.
On "Gilligan's Island" Miss Schafer played the wife of Thurston Howell 3d, portrayed by the late Jim Backus.
The daughter of a prominent Baptist minister, she was the wife of Walter Washington, the first elected Mayor of the District of Columbia.
Her most memorable early one was a vignette in Alfred Hitchcock's 1935 thriller, "The 39 Steps," as a farmer's wife who bravely aids the hero (Robert Donat).
"
        The actress also won plaudits for roles in such films as "Diamond Jim," "The Plainsman," "History Is Made at Night," "Only Angels Have Wings," "Arizona" and later, in 1953, in "Shane," about the disturbing effect of a gunfighter (Alan Ladd) on a frontier family, with Miss Arthur playing a gentle and loyal wife and mother.
" Most recently she had been illustrating fairy tales like "The Sorcerer's Apprentice," "The Six Swans" and "The Fisherman and His Wife.
Ms. Jiang caught Mao's eye in the caves at Yanan, the Red Army's hideaway in northern China during the civil war against the Nationalists, in 1938, and she scandalized top Communist officials when the couple apparently began living together before Mao got around to divorcing his previous wife, a respected revolutionary.
Ms. Jiang was Mao's third wife, not counting a childhood betrothal that was never consummated.
Apparently because of indignation at the divorce of the second wife and a sense of impropriety that Ms. Jiang was just 24 years old while Mao was 45, party officials reportedly insisted that Mao could marry Ms. Jiang only if she never exercised any political power.
Miss Dunnock was nominated for Academy Awards for her film performances as Linda Loman, the salesman's wife, in "Death of a Salesman" (1951) and for her performance in Tennessee Williams's "Baby Doll" (1956).
Appraising the film, Bosley Crowther wrote in The New York Times that "as the long-suffering wife, Mildred Dunnock is simply superb, as she was on the stage" in her "portrayal of a woman who bears the agony of seeing her sons and husband turn out failures.
Miss Dunnock was nominated for Academy Awards for her film performances as Linda Loman, the salesman's wife, in "Death of a Salesman" (1951) and for her performance in Tennessee Williams's "Baby Doll" (1956).
Appraising the film, Bosley Crowther wrote in The New York Times that "as the long-suffering wife, Mildred Dunnock is simply superb, as she was on the stage" in her "portrayal of a woman who bears the agony of seeing her sons and husband turn out failures.

        Carol Laise, an American Ambassador who was the wife of an American Ambassador and the first woman to be an Assistant Secretary of State, died yesterday at her home in Dummerston, Vt. She was 73 years old.
Miss Laise was a close friend of Mr. Bunker's first wife, Harriet Allen Bunker, who died in 1964, and it was Miss Laise's first marriage.

        Marguerite Feinstein, founder and director of the retiree division of Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents 23,000 municipal workers in New York City, died on Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. She was 57 years old and lived in Clinton Corners, N.Y.
        Mrs. Feinstein, who was known as Maggie, was the wife of Barry Feinstein, president of Local 237.

        Ella Haith Weaver, who directed the Speech Therapy Training Program at Brooklyn College for 18 years and was the wife of Robert C. Weaver, a Cabinet member during the Johnson Administration, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Her most recent New York appearances were on Broadway in 1988 as Mary Tyrone in O'Neill's "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and as Essie Miller in "Ah, Wilderness!," and as O'Neill's wife, Carlotta Monterey O'Neill, in "My Gene," a one-woman play by Barbara Gelb at the New York Shakespeare Festival in 1987.
"
        Her most recent New York appearances were in 1987, as O'Neill's wife Carlotta Monterey O'Neill in "My Gene," a one-woman play by Barbara Gelb at the New York Shakespeare Festival, and on Broadway in 1988 as Mary Tyrone in O'Neill's "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and as Essie Miller in his "Ah, Wilderness!
Her mother, Julia Thomas Neal Christian, died when Mrs. Preston was a child and she was reared by her grandmother, Anna Morrison Jackson, General Jackson's second wife and widow.

        Oona Chaplin, the daughter of one of the great tragic playwrights of the century, Eugene O'Neill, and wife of one of the screen's greatest comic geniuses, Charles Chaplin, died yesterday at the age of 66 in Corsier-sur-Vevey, Switzerland.
Mrs. Chaplin, who became known as Lady Oona after her British-born husband was knighted in 1975, was an 18-year-old Brearley graduate and fledgling actress in 1943 when she became the fourth wife of the internationally beloved actor and director, who was then 54 years old.
Mrs. Chaplin always told friends and interviewers that she was content to remain a wife and mother, and always said she never noticed the difference between her age and her husband's.
She joined the periodical in 1942 as assistant editor and new wife of its editor and founder, Whitney Ewing Burnett.

        Elizabeth M. Cahill, wife of William T. Cahill, a former Governor of New Jersey, died on Wednesday at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia after a brief illness.
She told reporters that she preferred her life in Houston as the wife of W. Howard Lee, an oil man whom she married in 1960.

        Jeannette E. Kriendler, a philanthropist and the wife of H. Peter Kreindler, the longtime chairman of "21" Club, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
In the 1940's she painted portraits of several members of the Truman Administration and their families, which led to commissions for portraits of the President, his wife and daughter.
