
        Ana Inez Astor, the former wife of Sir John Jacob Astor, died Friday at her home in London.
She is survived by her parents, Mr. Lutz and Mona Furuki, who now live in Los Angeles; a son, Maximillian, and a daughter, China, both of Pacific Palisades, and a sister, Adelle Lutz of Manhattan, who is the wife of the rock musician David Byrne.
      
She is survived by her parents, Mr. Lutz and Mona Furuki, who now live in Los Angeles; a son, Maximillian, and a daughter, China, both of Pacific Palisades, and a sister, Adelle Lutz of Manhattan, the wife of the rock musician David Byrne.
      

        Sally Mugabe, an anti-colonialist and the wife of President Robert Mugabe, died Monday.
Ms. Samuel's work also came to the attention of Matilda Cuomo, the Governor's wife, and became a pilot for the New York State Mentoring Program.
Her best-known film roles were the mother of Knute Rockne (played by Pat O'Brien) in "Knute Rockne: All American" (1940), and Louis Calhern's invalid wife in "The Asphalt Jungle" (1950).
It was there that she supposedly met Mr. Yawkey during a visit to the store with his first wife, Elise Sparrow Yawkey.

        Nancy Walker, who played Rhoda's mother, McMillan and wife's housekeeper and a paper-towel-promoting waitress in television commercials, along with a string of brassy, loudmouthed cutups on Broadway, died yesterday at her home in Studio City, Calif. She was 69 years old.
On Broadway, she also starred as the jaded cabdriver Brunnhilde Esterhazy in "On the Town" in 1944 and later appeared in "Pal Joey," "Wonderful Town," "Look, Ma, I'm Dancin"' and "Do, Re, Mi," a spoof of the jukebox industry in which she played Phil Silvers's long-suffering wife.

        Nancy Walker, who played Rhoda's mother, McMillan and wife's housekeeper and a paper-towel-promoting waitress in television commercials, along with a string of brassy, loudmouthed cutups on Broadway, died on Wednesday at her home in Studio City, Calif. She was 69 years old.
On Broadway, she also starred as the jaded cabdriver Brunnhilde Esterhazy in "On the Town" in 1944 and later appeared in "Pal Joey," "Wonderful Town," "Look, Ma, I'm Dancin"' and "Do, Re, Mi," a spoof of the jukebox industry in which she played Phil Silvers's long-suffering wife.
Miss Walker also appeared in the series "McMillan and Wife" from 1971 to 1976, playing a sassy housekeeper.

        Roberta Laidlaw Forbes, the former wife of the late Malcolm S. Forbes, the publisher, died on Wednesday at her home in Bedminster, N.J. She was 67 years old.
In 1948, she became the third wife of Bernarr Macfadden, the physical culturist and publisher who died in 1955 at the age of 87.
Her most noteworthy movie roles after the war were as an exotic gypsy in Mitchell Leisen's "Golden Earrings" (1947), with Ray Milland; a manipulative Berlin cabaret singer in Billy Wilder's "Foreign Affair" (1948); a saloon manager hiding outlaws in Fritz Lang's "Rancho Notorious" (1952); a duplicitous wife in Mr. Wilder's "Witness for the Prosecution" (1958); a cynical brothel-keeper in Orson Welles's "Touch of Evil" (1958) and an aristocratic widow in Stanley Kramer's "Judgment at Nuremberg" (1961).
After the early years of their marriage, Mr. Sieber was rarely seen with his wife.
"
        Mrs. Fisher was the first child of Rex Kennedy, a small-town newspaper owner, and his wife, Edith.
"
        Mrs. Fisher was the first child of Rex Kennedy, a small-town newspaper owner, and his wife, Edith.
Kirk Douglas and his wife, Anne, remained lifelong friends, but when the Hollywood crowd started to lose interest for her, she began a more lasting relationship with writers around the city.
Although she tended to socialize mainly with Democrats, she made an exception for Henry Kissinger and his wife Nancy, Republicans who were among the New York social lions who liked to go to "Mollie's.
Mrs. Mohorovicic, the wife of a Yugoslav consular official, was en route to New York from South Africa in March 1942 when a German U-boat torpedoed her ship.
She encouraged others who made their cases public, including Elizabeth Glaser, the wife of a television actor, who addressed the Democratic National Convention, and Mary Fisher, a former aide to President Gerald R. Ford who will speak to the Republican convention.
'They Couldn't Applaud Any More'
        In a great moment of theater history, Ms. Nelson was the taxicab driver's wife in the original cast of Clifford Odets' "Waiting for Lefty.
Among his directing credits were "Of Human Bondage," in which Miss Nelson played the wife, "Algiers," "Abe Lincoln in Illinois" and "The Goddess.
At the time, Ms. Nelson was offered a New York stage role as a wife in what turned out to be a monumental play, "Death of a Salesman.
'Couldn't Applaud Any More'
        In a great moment of theater history, Ms. Nelson was the taxicab driver's wife in the original cast of Clifford Odets' "Waiting for Lefty.
At the time, Ms. Nelson was offered a New York stage role as a wife in what turned out to be a monumental play, "Death of a Salesman.
Looking back on her three decades as a columnist, she concluded that of all marital problems, "the single greatest pitfall of all times" is the inability of husband and wife to communicate.

        Fairy D. McIntire, a religious leader and the wife of Dr. Carl McIntire, president of the International Council of Churches, died on Sept. 13 at Thomas Jefferson Hospital in Philadelphia.
"
        Roseamond Elaine Whitelaw was born on Nov. 21, 1914, the oldest child of Louis Whitelaw, a wealthy diamond merchant, and his wife, Dora.
Dr. Hoxie became the first dean of the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University in 1955 and tended to its academic growth while his wife taught French and acted as the college's official hostess.
The Marquesa, who was widely known as Mimi Herrera, died of heart failure due to complications from cancer, said her son, Reinaldo Herrera, whose wife is the fashion designer Caroline Herrera.
