'' The husband often asked civility of the wife, and she responded by ''listening very carefully to him, correcting details, switching topics intuitively, reading the commercials elegantly and accurately.

       Lina Prokofiev, a singer and the wife of the Russian composer Sergei Prokofiev, died Tuesday in London.
Lina Prokofiev, a singer and the wife of the Russian composer Sergei Prokofiev, died Tuesday in London.
Their marriage began to deteriorate within a few years after their move, and in 1941, Mr. Prokofiev left his wife for Myra Mendelson, a young Soviet writer.
Mrs. Gragg's work to improve racial relations in the United States began in the late 1930's with her association with Roosevelt's wife, Eleanor.
Born into a New York family that had long been eminent in finance and public service, Mrs. Tuchman could have had an easy, conventional life as the wife of a prominent physician.
Mrs. Logan was a daughter of Edward Harrigan, the composer, writer and vaudeville performer, and the wife of Joshua L. Logan, the director, producer and writer, from 1945 until he died in July.
Of her life as a Hollywood wife, she remarked in 1940: ''If you don't make an effort, it's awfully easy to fall into the soft, indolent - and pleasant - life of the many Hollywood women who are content to just keep the home fires burning for their hard-working, large earning and famous husbands.
It is a story about a young woman who marries a widower and becomes the new mistress of a mansion haunted by the image of his first wife.
Another critic, Basil Davenport, called it a ''melodrama, unashamed, glorying its own quality, such as we have hardly had since that other dependent, Jane Eyre, found that her house too had a first wife.
As the wife of Lieut.
'' A Regular on the Radio
        In radio, Miss Ball did regular stints on Phil Baker's and Jack Haley's comedy-variety shows in the late 30's and 40's and, from 1947 to 1951, she played the precursor to Lucy: the hare-brained wife of a Midwestern banker (Lee Bowman and later Richard Denning) in the CBS radio comedy ''My Favorite Husband.

       Cynthia M. Welles, the wife of Benjamin Welles, a former foreign correspondent for The New York Times, died on May 3 after a stroke at her home in Washington.
Cynthia M. Welles, the wife of Benjamin Welles, a former foreign correspondent for The New York Times, died on May 3 after a stroke at her home in Washington.
For most of her life, Mrs. Pirone was led to believe that her mother was the baseball star's first wife, Helen.
Over the years, Mr. Ruth and his first wife gave conflicting birth dates and details.
Energetic Social Life
        The wife of the late Clyde M. Newhouse, a member of the communications industry family and an art gallery owner, Mrs. Newhouse maintained an energetic social life as a moderator of charity fashion shows and chairwoman of balls.
She was the wife of John C. A. Watkins, the former chairman and publisher of The Providence Journal.
Mr. Newhouse, who died in 1979, described the acquisition of the magazine group that devoted so much coverage to the fashion world as ''an anniversary present for my wonderful wife, Mitzi.

       Suzanne Deschevaux-Dumesnil, the wife of the playwright and novelist Samuel Beckett, died on July 17 in Paris.
Suzanne Deschevaux-Dumesnil, the wife of the playwright and novelist Samuel Beckett, died on July 17 in Paris.
Backer became the nominal publisher and editor, and his wife was vice president and treasurer.
Mrs. Melville had been president of the Stony Brook Community Fund, chairwoman of the Museums at Stony Brook and a trustee of Bennett College in Greensboro, N.C.
        She was the wife of Ward Melville, originator of the Thom McAn brand of shoes.
'' She returned to New York in 1938 to play the role of Curley's wife in ''Of Mice and Men'' by John Steinbeck.
Mr. West has participated in many of his wife's recitals.
'' She returned to New York in 1938 to play the role of Curley's wife in ''Of Mice and Men'' by John Steinbeck.
In addition to her daughter, who is the wife of Henry A. Kissinger and also has a home in Manhattan, she is survived by a son, David, of Chevy Chase, Md., and five grandchildren.
      
''
        The memorable Davis roles continued in swift order: The murderous and unfaithful planter's wife in Maugham's ''The Letter'' in 1940, quickly followed the next year by ''The Great Lie'' and ''The Little Foxes,'' in which she played the scheming Regina Giddens.
''Being the dutiful wife, that's what I did.
''
        ''For three years I was solely a wife and mother and Gary fell out of love with me,'' Miss Davis was to say years later.

       Princess Gina of Liechtenstein, wife of the head of state, died today, the Government announced.
Princess Gina of Liechtenstein, wife of the head of state, died today, the Government announced.
He had a bad heart, and it was prophesied, from the first, that he would die young and leave his wife with a pack of children.
''  'Dickensian Cruelty'
        In fact, both he and his wife died in the great flu epidemic of 1918, and the 6-year-old Mary and her three brothers were sent to live with their great-aunt Margaret and her husband in Minneapolis.
Mr. Buttenwieser, a prominent philanthropist and civic leader, nurtured his wife's career and shared her causes.
Her roles included a sensitive prostitute in ''Gold of Naples'' (1954), a loveless movie goddess in ''The Witches'' (1967), a cool aristocrat in ''Death in Venice'' (1971) and the wealthy, rejected wife of Marcello Mastroianni in ''Dark Eyes'' (1987).

       Frances Hammer, a painter and the wife of Dr. Armand Hammer, the industrialist and philanthropist, died of pneumonia on Saturday after undergoing surgery for a broken hip at the UCLA Medical Center.
Frances Hammer, a painter and the wife of Dr. Armand Hammer, the industrialist and philanthropist, died of pneumonia on Saturday after undergoing surgery for a broken hip at the UCLA Medical Center.
The couple had been acquainted for many years and were married in early 1956, after the death of Mrs. Hammer's first husband, Dr. Elmer Tolman, of Lake Forest, Ill., and Dr. Hammer's divorce from his second wife.
She starred in two short-run comedy series, ''Detective's Wife,'' which was shot live, and ''Boss Lady,'' as well as many leading roles in plays.
'' She was probably best known as the wife of the title character in ''Lorenzo Jones'' and as Mrs. Wiggs in ''Mrs.
