''
        Other films she did with the Maysleses included ''Salesman'' (1969), an account of four real-life sales representatives of the American Bible Company, and ''Running Fence'' (1978), a chronicle of the successful efforts of the artist Christo and his wife, Jeanne-Claude, to erect a 24-mile fabric fence in the California hills.
Joan Aiken was born in Rye, England, a daughter of the American poet Conrad Aiken and his first wife, Jessie McDonald.

        Irma Fleck, a physician's wife who looked at the vacant lots and abandoned buildings of her South Bronx neighborhood and retaliated by starting organizations to celebrate art and turn rubble piles into emerald oases, died on Feb. 11 in Naples, Fla.
        She was 84 and lived in Naples.
She believed a physician's wife should be active in the community in which he worked and in 1956 was a founder of the Claremont Neighborhood Center on East 169th Street.
Stax got started as Satellite Records in 1957, when Mr. Stewart, a country fiddler who worked at a bank, began recording country songs in his wife's uncle's garage, but soon switched to rhythm-and-blues.
But in 1932 she returned to New York for good as the wife of Eliot D. Pratt, a member of a socially prominent family, and the couple helped other refugees from Europe find their way to the United States.
''
        She brought life to her account, writing of Keynes's wife, the Russian ballerina Lydia Lopokova, as ''a delightful little person,'' and likening Forster's laugh to a sneeze.
The prince contended that the healer had a dangerous influence on his wife and, after a political furor, ensured that all contacts between the two women were broken.
As the wife of Charles Engelhard, owner of a vast international business empire, she helped Jacqueline Kennedy restore the White House, regularly made best-dressed lists and was such a fixture of New York society, its own magazines recounted, that socialites affectionately called her ''Our Mother Superior.

        Mary Lindsay, who as John V. Lindsay's accomplished, blue-blood wife brought casual elegance and political acumen to his campaigns for New York City mayor and other offices while fiercely protecting the family's limited privacy, died yesterday in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 77.
She was the wife of Stanley Kunitz, a former poet laureate of the United States.
Other assignments included shooting Mayor Fiorello La Guardia at Yankee Stadium, Leonard Bernstein and President John F. Kennedy and his wife, Jacqueline.
(He, his former wife Winnie and President Thabo Mbeki all visited her in the hospital before her death.
Her father, Samuel Charney, also known as Shmuel Niger, was the literary critic for The Day, a Yiddish newspaper, and he and his wife ran a literary salon in their home in New York.
In ''The Blue Dahlia'' (1946), a Raymond Chandler thriller starring Alan Ladd, she was the faithless wife who is murdered.
The portrayal impressed show-business insiders, including the television producer Norman Lear, who in 1971 hired Ms. Sanford to play a Queens neighbor to the confrontational Archie Bunker, and an eventual friend to his wife, Edith, in ''All in the Family.
She soon established herself as a charismatic performer with the Horton Dance Group, starring in highly dramatic works by Mr. Horton like ''Salome'' (1937) and ''The Beloved'' (1948), in which she portrayed a wife accused of adultery by her puritanical husband.
Dr. Kübler-Ross talked about setting up a worldwide network of franchised centers with him and his wife to counsel on the problems of dying and living.
After Mr. Grey died, his wife became a film editor at Universal.
''
        Fay Wray was born on Sept. 15, 1907, on a farm in Alberta, a daughter of Jerry Wray, an inventor, and his wife, Vina.
She was the third and youngest child of Paul Quoirez, a well-to-do businessman, and his wife, Marie.
Ms. Benson, who was born in Cleveland and raised in Minneapolis, was the only daughter of Charles Benson, a specialty store executive, and his wife, Eleanor.
She graduated from the University of Virginia and soon after went to New York to make her stage debut as Curley's wife in ''Of Mice and Men'' at the New School.
Six years younger than his wife, Teobaldo was restless and unfaithful.
'' But she added, ''How could I have been a wife, a mother and a singer?
Short, dated entries written in graceful, lucid prose describe her processes and her spiritual ups and downs in the studio, her effort to balance being an artist and being a wife and mother and her struggles to make ends meet after her divorce from James Truitt, a Washington journalist.
It told the story of Sir William Hamilton, the 18th-century British envoy to the court of Naples; his wife, Emma (''that Hamilton woman''); and her lover, Lord Nelson, the naval hero.
Ms. Chaney was blacklisted because she was correctly assumed to be, as Mr. Lardner's wife, a Communist.
