At the time she was also married to Balanchine, his fourth wife.
After his first wife, Tamara Geva, left him, he lived with the ballerina Alexandra Danilova and subsequently married Vera Zorina and Ms. Tallchief.
Helen Lancaster Coley, his daughter with his wife, the former Alice Lancaster, was born Sept. 2, 1907, in Sharon, Conn., and was raised in New York City.
As the wife of a prominent lawyer and the mother of six, including former Judge Karen S. Burstein, a former candidate for state attorney general, Justice Burstein belonged to what one federal judge called ''the first legal family of Nassau County.
When Michael Todd staged a Madison Square Garden celebration in 1957 for the first anniversary of his movie ''Around the World in 80 Days,'' Cake Masters delivered the cake, even as an elephant delivered Mr. Todd's wife, Miss Taylor.
'' Lindbergh, looking down at his diminutive wife, said, ''Anne, they have stolen our baby.
Mr. Ross, the Lindbergh biographer, wrote that when, after the dinner, Lindbergh showed the medal-box to his wife, ''she opened it and glanced at the medal and looked away.
After the birth of each of their six children, Mr. Berg wrote, Lindbergh would take his wife away on long plane journeys, some lasting weeks, as a way of ''weaning'' her from her children.
'' He said in a 1998 interview that there was no doubt that Lindbergh ''deeply loved his wife and children, but that love manifested itself in unusual ways.
It's ironic that it was Lindbergh who fostered his own wife's feminism.
But she did not leave her husband for Saint-Exupéry, who already had both a wife and a paramour.
He and his wife were married for 45 years and it was the only enduring relationship of his life.
They divorced in 1945, and the following year, Rogers's wife died after giving birth to a son, Roy Rogers Jr.
        Miss Evans and Rogers made eight films together in 1946, including ''My Pal Trigger.
Her father, Geronimo, or White Flower, was mainly concerned with raising food for the family, but he was also the main marketer of his wife's pottery.
''
        Joseph Mankiewicz, the Academy Award-winning director who cast Ms. Sothern in her best role, as the soap opera-writing wife of Kirk Douglas in ''A Letter to Three Wives'' (1949), said of her: ''Poor Annie.
When she portrayed the sixth wife in ''Bluebeard,'' he wrote, ''She dances the role excellently and plays it with charm and a nice comedy sense.
In 1977 she won an Academy Award as best supporting actress for her performance in Sidney Lumet's ''Network'' as the wife William Holden's character spurns.
''Scotty Reston, then the bureau chief, had sent her off to the club to cover a speech by Madame Nhu, the beautiful and sinister female leader of South Vietnam, the wife of Ngo Dinh Nhu.
She was also his wife from 1952 to 1969.
His wife at first demurred.
Zanele Mbeki, wife of President Thabo Mbeki, is expected to attend her funeral on Sunday.
The sketches were never about very much, often just an idea: a wife trying to hide the fact that she has just smashed up her husband's car, a roof leaking on an elegant dinner party, a catered boardroom lunch that lurches into chaos over who gets the chopped liver as a slavering chairman lusts after a pickle wagged by his vice chairman.
In another, Ms. Coca was a wife posing for her amateur photographer husband, who could not quite satisfy himself about her face.
Mrs. Sulzberger was the wife of David Hays Sulzberger, a stockbroker who was the brother of Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the publisher of The New York Times from 1935 to 1961.
Mrs. Sulzberger was the wife of David Hays Sulzberger, a stockbroker who was the brother of Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the publisher of The New York Times from 1935 to 1961.

        Lyubov Sokolova, a Russian actress whose roles in more than 300 movies in the years after World War II shaped the image of the Soviet wife and mother, died on June 6 at her home in Moscow.
''We were much better as friends than as husband and wife,'' she told Mr. Hart, her neighbor.
Mrs. Graham was one of the most powerful figures in American journalism and, for the last decades of her life, at the pinnacle of Washington's political and social establishments, a position this insecure wife and mother never imagined she would, or could, occupy.
Nora Ephron, in her review of the best-selling memoir in The New York Times Book Review, wrote of Mrs. Graham, ''The story of her journey from daughter to wife to widow to woman parallels to a surprising degree the history of women in this century.
The children were brought up in the traditions of St. John's Episcopal Church in Washington, the church of presidents, where the Meyers -- Mr. Meyer was Jewish, his wife Lutheran -- had their own pew.
Mr. Meyer also arranged for him to hold more stock in the company than his daughter because, he explained to her, ''no man should be in the position of working for his wife.
What his wife later described as his ''hyperactivity, rage and irrationality'' grew.
) Mrs. Graham wrote that she was startled when her friend Luvie Pearson, the wife of the columnist Drew Pearson, told her to run the paper herself.
President Bush recalled in a statement yesterday how Mrs. Graham had welcomed him and his wife, Laura, to Washington with a dinner at her home, as she had with other presidents.
In plays like William Inge's ''Picnic,'' Horton Foote's ''Traveling Lady'' and, especially, Inge's ''Bus Stop,'' Ms. Stanley captivated Broadway audiences and dazzled the critics in roles that ranged from a gauche young tomboy to a gallant abandoned wife to a well-traveled wisecracking nightclub singer.
Another nephew, Jonathan Newhouse, and his wife, Ronnie Cooke Newhouse, have flown in from London, where they live, to be chairman and chairwoman of the benefits.
Her theatrical breakthrough came in 1953 when she played the painfully neurotic wife in Graham Greene's first play, ''The Living Room.
Frequently, she diversified her career by undertaking contemporary roles, in 1971 playing the wife in the original London production of Harold Pinter's ''Old Times.
She recalled a news release at the time that said Mr. Reagan and his wife Nancy, whom he married in 1952, had had two children, Patti and Ronnie, and did not mention her or her brother Michael.
In London, wafted by her parents' literary connections, she met the likes of Arthur Koestler, his lover the novelist Elizabeth Jane Howard (future wife of Kingsley Amis), James Thurber, A. J. Liebling, Walker Evans, Cyril Connolly, Henry Green, Graham Greene and Charlie and Oona Chaplin.
She also met members of the American community in exile -- targets of Hollywood blacklisting and the United States' anti-communist campaign -- which was centered around Frognal, the house of Donald Ogden Stewart and Ella Winter, his Australian-born wife.
Later, asked by an interviewer about accusations that he and his wife bought art for investment and for social climbing, Mr. Scull replied: ''It's all true.
The family tradition continues at Russ & Daughters, with Mrs. Federman's son Mark, his wife, Maria, and their daughter, Niki, owning and operating the store.
      
''
        Another signature role that showcased Miss McGuire's ability to project simplicity, warmth and forbearance was that of the wife of Jess Birdwell (Gary Cooper) and the mother of Josh Birdwell (Anthony Perkins) in ''Friendly Persuasion,'' William Wyler's 1956 film about a Quaker family living in southern Indiana during the Civil War.
Her father moved off the farm to become the sheriff of Hidalgo County, Tex., where he made his wife and only child deputies so they could travel with him over the vast territory on official business.
The cause of death was uncertain pending an autopsy, said her husband, Roger Donald, who said his wife had had respiratory problems.
She laid the foundations of the center's collections as the wife of Cornell Capa, an international photographer and its founding director emeritus.
Dr. Kleber, a psychiatrist who is the director of the Division on Substance Abuse at Columbia University and the New York State Psychiatric Institute, said his wife was the first research scientist since Freud to use controlled scientific experiments with humans to directly examine cocaine's effects.
His wife, who as co-director of the division directed five separate laboratories, studied how people changed physiologically and behaviorally when under the influence of drugs.
''Her interest was not in repeating the same thing,'' said Dr. Kleber, who met his wife at a scientific meeting in Washington in 1987.
Mr. Campanelli built a garage for the three Model A's he restored and a building to house his wife's ''natural history museum,'' which included at least 10,000 seashells.
She was a staunch Christian and member of the Moral Rearmament movement who at 20 fell in love with an older married man but left him when she saw the unhappiness she had caused his wife.
