When Bukharin, a trusted comrade of Lenin and a rival to Stalin, was condemned in 1938 in the last of the Moscow show trials, his young wife was banished and spent 20 years in exile and Soviet prison camps.
Before they were separated, Bukharin instructed his wife to memorize his final testament, in which he implored future generations of Communist leaders to exonerate him.
When Gleason decided he had had enough of an hourlong show every week, the pieces for a new half-hour show were in place: Gleason as Ralph Kramden; Miss Meadows as Alice; Art Carney as Ed Norton, and Joyce Randolph as his wife, Trixie.
"She loved people and she was fun," said Mary Lindsay, the wife of Mr. Lindsay and a longtime friend.
Reviewing "Time and the Priestleys, the Story of a Friendship," Diana Collins's 1994 double biography of Mr. Priestley and Ms. Hawkes, Peter Ackroyd said there was no reason Ms. Hawkes "should be remembered as the wife of anyone  .
She was 80 and the wife of David Rockefeller, former chairman of the Chase Manhattan Bank and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
The announcement of the Ford separation and divorce followed months of rumor  in which Mr. Ford was linked romantically to the Italian-born Maria Cristina Vettore Austin, the divorced wife of a British naval officer.

        Siti Hartinah Suharto, the wife of President Suharto of Indonesia, died today of a heart attack, a spokesman for the President said.

        Greer Garson, the actress who epitomized a noble, wise and courageous wife in some of the sleekest and most sentimental American movies of the 1940's, died yesterday morning at Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas.
Miss Garson became an instant success as a captivating young wife in the sentimental 1939 film "Goodbye, Mr.
In "Salt of the Earth" (1954), Ms. Revueltas played the starring role of Esperanza Quintero, the wife of a Mexican-American zinc worker, who becomes involved in the struggle for workers' and women's rights during a violent strike.
From 1953 to 1968, Mrs. Kirk, the wife of a former Columbia University president, Dr. Grayson L. Kirk, organized a number of exhibitions on the campus  and at New York galleries to benefit art scholarships.
She was the daughter of a czarist army colonel and his wife, who were fleeing the Bolsheviks.

        Beatrice Procter Frelinghuysen, the wife of one Congressman and mother of another, who was on the boards of nonprofit organizations in the fields of botany and ballet, died on Monday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in Morristown, N.J., where she lived.
She was the wife of Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen, a Republican who represented north central New Jersey in the House from 1953 through 1974.
In 1994, she sued relatives of Mr. Kerouac's last wife, Stella Sampas, who inherited the notebooks, teletype rolls and parchment scrolls on which he wrote  "On the Road" and laid down the first rumblings of postwar alienation that set the tone for the Beat Generation of the 1950's.
She was Mr. Kerouac's second wife.
Then her mother, who had no such notions, sent her daughter's photograph to Lang's wife, the screenwriter, Thea von Harbou, and Ms.
At a time when televised soap operas have become a postfeminist cultural sideshow, it is hard to imagine the era when "Stella Dallas," "Helen Trent," "Ma Perkins" and "Lorenzo Jones" were more than household names, and when virtually  every woman in America knew that Mary Noble was the "Backstage Wife" and were familiar with every detail of the anguished but inspiring lives of "John's Other Wife" and "Young Widow Brown.
At a time when televised soap operas have become a postfeminist cultural sideshow, it is hard to imagine the era when "Stella Dallas," "Helen Trent," "Ma Perkins" and "Lorenzo Jones" were more than household names, and when virtually  every woman in America knew that Mary Noble was the "Backstage Wife" and were familiar with every detail of the anguished but inspiring lives of "John's Other Wife" and "Young Widow Brown.
Another, Diana, wanted to be a Fascist and succeeded in becoming the wife of Sir Oswald Mosley, the ranking leader of Britain's Fascists.

        Josephine Rucker Powell, the wife of former Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell, died on Wednesday at her home in Richmond.
Her early films were followed by such successes as "Imitation of Life" (1934); "The Gilded Lily" (1935); "Private Worlds" (1935), a drama of a mental institution; "Bluebeard's Eighth Wife" (1938), another Lubitsch comedy; "Midnight" (1939); "The Palm Beach Story" (1942), a Preston Sturges caper, and "Since You Went Away" (1944), a drama of the American home front during World War II.
FILMS
        For the Love of Mike (1927)
        The Lady Lies (1929)
        Three-Cornered Moon (1933)
        It Happened One Night (1934)
        Cleopatra (1934)
        Imitation of Life (1934)
        The Gilded Lily (1935)
        I Met Him in Paris (1937)
        Tovarich (1937)
        Bluebeard's Eighth Wife (1938)
        Drums Along the Mohawk (1939)
        Midnight (1939)
        The Palm Beach Story (1942)
        Tomorrow Is Forever (1946)
        Three Came Home (1950)
        Texas Lady (1955)
        Parrish (1961)
        The Two Mrs. Grenvilles (TV, 1986)
        PLAYS
        The Wild Wescotts (1923)
        The Barker (1927)
        Dynamo (1929)
        The Marriage-Go-Round (1958)
        Julia, Jake and Uncle Joe (1961)
        The Irregular Verb to Love (1963)
        The Kingfisher (1978)
        A Talent for Murder (1981)
        Aren't We All (1985)
      

        Pamela Mason, an author, actress, talk-show host and former wife of the actor James Mason, died on Saturday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 80.
With characteristic panache, she played a clergyman's repressed wife.
She also acted in ''The Reluctant Debutante,'' ''The Loves of Cass McGuire'' (with Ruth Gordon) and ''The Constant Wife'' (with Ingrid Bergman).

        Elizabeth Bottomley Noyce, a microchip millionaire's scorned first wife who showed as much imagination and verve in deploying her half of his Silicon Valley fortune as he had in making it, died on Tuesday at her seaside home in Bremen, Me.
The last female emperor -- the title of empress is reserved for the emperor's wife -- reigned for seven years until 1770.
''Indeed, being the wife in the imperial family has got to be the No.
Unlike an empress, Masako-san is a yome, the wife of a son, and according to Confucian patriarchy, a yome doesn't hold any role, not even a place in the family.
As Ms. Carlin recalled, after that all he had to do when his wife balked at bowing to his wishes was to say ''remember Thanksgiving,'' and the terrified wife would submit.
As Ms. Carlin recalled, after that all he had to do when his wife balked at bowing to his wishes was to say ''remember Thanksgiving,'' and the terrified wife would submit.
Just as that wife had learned to conduct herself to avoid the serious consequences of displeasing her husband, Ms. Carlin felt that men would decide not to beat their wives at the exact moment that society came to regard domestic abuse as a serious criminal offense to be dealt with swiftly, surely and severely.
'' She noted, too, that an industry wife was looked through, never at.
In a later interview, recalling her years as a Hollywood wife, she said she had felt constantly ignored and undervalued, had had little self-esteem and had often been depressed.
When friends like William Holden or Hal Wallis came to dine, Mr. Asher inevitably did the cooking, while Miss La Plante, who had learned the art in London from Somerset Maugham's wife, Syrie, wowed the guests with her stunning flower arrangements.
''It blew the top of her head off,'' Mr. Wesley said, noting that for the last 25 years his wife had been writing -- and rewriting -- a book about the martyred 12-year-old girl who was betrayed by her father, refused to renounce her faith and put to death, inspiring a cult that continues in France.

        Magda Trocme, a French parson's wife who opened her door to a single shivering refugee in 1940 and helped inspire a movement that saved thousands of Jews and others from the Nazis in World War II, died on Oct. 10 a hospital in Paris.
After the war, Mr. Trocme became the European secretary for the Fellowship of Reconciliation, an American-based pacifist group, and during the 1950's he and his wife made fund-raising tours of the United States.
Mrs. Farkas, who lived in Palm Beach, Fla., had been staying with Mr. Farkas and his wife, Carol, a nurse, in Manhattan since her release two weeks ago from the New York University Medical Center, where she had been treated for a heart ailment.
Mrs. Waxman was the wife of Rabbi Mordecai Waxman of Temple Israel in Great Neck.
By the time she retired from Penn State and began writing about women's issues, Dr. Bernard knew what it meant to be both a wife and a single mother.
In an open letter to his wife, he urged her to leave Congress and return to what he described as the ''happy home we once enjoyed.
''
        Never mind that Mr. Knutson, who had once worked on her father's farm in North Dakota, had not shared a bedroom with his wife for years or that he had regularly beaten her so badly during her visits to Minnesota, as their son later recalled it, that she had to wear dark glasses to hide her black eyes from her fellow members of Congress.
Once the resulting ''Coya, Come Home,'' newspaper headline was carried across the country, it created a firestorm of publicity that accepted Mr. Knutson's story as the plaintive truth and portrayed his wife as an uncaring wife who had abandoned her family for political ambition.
Once the resulting ''Coya, Come Home,'' newspaper headline was carried across the country, it created a firestorm of publicity that accepted Mr. Knutson's story as the plaintive truth and portrayed his wife as an uncaring wife who had abandoned her family for political ambition.
Mr. Knutson later stirred the fire by accusing his wife of having an affair with a legislative aide half her age, but although the charge was a blatant fabrication, Mrs. Knutson refused to denounce her husband.
''
        Mrs. Dulles was born in Watertown, N.Y., one of five children of a Presbyterian minister and his wife.
From her office on Union Square, Mrs. Macdonald attracted money and support from intellectual friends like Hannah Arendt, James T. Farrell, Alfred Kazin and Barbara Tuchman, while Pablo Casals and Francine Faure, the wife of Albert Camus, distributed the aid in France.
In his years as a founding editor of Partisan Review in the 1930's, as the founder of Politics in the 1940's and later as a social critic for The New Yorker, Mr. Macdonald acknowledged that his wife had prodded him ever leftward.
No charges were filed against Mrs. Ewing, 76, who is the wife of New Jersey's senior State Senator, John H. Ewing of Bernardsville.
Discussing the Curious George phenomenon, Hillel Stavis, a longtime friend who, with his wife, Donna Friedman, runs a shop called Curious George Goes to Wordsworth, a bookstore on Harvard Square, said: ''The art work is endearing and it is pretty timeless.
Young Madga was 5 in 1939 when her father, Gyula Denes, a wealthy publisher, fled Budapest, abandoning his daughter, son and wife, who sought refuge in houses protected by Swiss diplomats.
And as a reporter  at The New York Tribune and an assistant to the critic Heywood Broun, she wrote  book and theater reviews from 1919 to 1922 under the byline Rebecca Drucker and  the initials "R. D."
        During the same years, she became a charter member of the Lucy Stone League,  a group founded by Mr. Broun's wife, Ruth Hale, that encouraged married women to keep their names.
She also toured with Ethel Barrymore in "The  Constant Wife.

        Olga Havel, a human rights campaigner and wife of President Vaclav Havel, died on Saturday.
Lucian very politely said maybe he could paint her portrait later, but not now because he happened to be in the midst of doing his wife's portrait.
