''What she used to say at the time was, 'I want to be one of the children as opposed to one of the grown-ups,'' said Mr. Noah, a writer for Slate who frequently showed his wife his own stories.
He was impressed enough to cast her as the wife of his own character.
But she won high critical praise for her performance as the unfaithful wife of a returning veteran in ''The Best Years of Our Lives'' (1946), widely regarded as one of the finest movies to come out of the World War II homecoming experience.
Bosley Crowther, reviewing the film for The New York Times, said that Ms. Mayo was ''brassy and brutal'' as the wife of an Air Force bombardier, played by Dana Andrews, who returns home with neither job nor prospects.
In 1949, Ms. Mayo gave another highly regarded performance in ''White Heat,'' in which she played the wife of a psychopathic gangster.
Despite her conventional-seeming role as a wife and mother, she was always staunch in her support of feminism, remaining friends with women like Betty Friedan, Gloria Steinem and Kate Millett, her son said.
In addition to ''Come September,'' Ms. Dee starred with her finger-snapping husband as a jealous young wife in ''If a Man Answers'' (1962) and as a maid posing as a successful publisher in ''That Funny Feeling'' (1965).
In ''Cat People'' Ms. Simon played a Serbian-born wife who fears that when her passions are aroused she will turn into a panther that kills.
Her casting in this film and its mostly unrelated sequel, ''The Curse of the Cat People'' (RKO, 1944), was probably inspired by her role as the devil's emissary in ''All That Money Can Buy'' (RKO, 1941), an adaptation of Stephen Vincent Benet's short story ''The Devil and Daniel Webster,'' in which Ms. Simon's character steals a good man from his wife.
Although Ms. Knight did not begin to exhibit formally until the 1970's and was long known as the wife of Mr. Lawrence, a leading visual chronicler of the African-American experience, she began painting when she was young and was still setting out in new directions in old age.

        Connie Scovill Small, known in maritime circles as the First Lady of Light for the decades she spent helping illuminate the night as the wife of a lighthouse keeper on the rugged New England coast, died on Jan. 25 at a nursing home in Portsmouth, N.H. She was 103.
Her memoir, ''The Lighthouse Keeper's Wife,'' first published when she was in her mid-80's, was reprinted by the University of Maine Press in 1999.

        Beverly Dennis, an actress who played on Broadway, in films and television, most notably on CBS as Red Buttons's wife on ''The Red Buttons Show'' until she was blacklisted in the 1950's, died on Jan. 20 at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 79.
'' She lost her role as Mr. Buttons's wife in 1952 after the publication ''Red Channels: The Report of Communist Influence in Radio and Television'' (1950) listed her as belonging to ''subversive organizations,'' probably because she ''signed a few petitions like the rest of us,'' her friend the actress Lee Grant said.
The cause was pneumonia, said Linda Kauffman, the wife of Ms.
His wife, as originally planned, had gone to the border to find a way to escape by land.
The next year, she was nominated for best actress for her next role, opposite Gary Cooper as Lou Gehrig's wife in ''The Pride of the Yankees,'' and won the Oscar for best supporting actress as the love interest of Greer Garson's war-bound son in ''Mrs.
In 1980, Ms. McNulty notably departed from her usual subjects with "The Burning Bed: The True Story of an Abused Wife" (Harcourt), an account of how in 1977 Francine Hughes, a battered Michigan housewife, killed her husband by setting him on fire after he passed out from drinking.
Mrs. Knippers was born Diane LeMasters in Rushville, Ind., in 1952, to a Methodist minister and his wife, a schoolteacher.
''I was a battered wife,'' she told The New York Times in 1985, ''and pornography entered into it.
Frances Langford was born April 6, 1913, in Lakeland, Fla., the daughter of Vasco Langford, a carpenter, and his wife, Anna, who was an accomplished pianist.
A performance as Woodrow Wilson's wife, Edith, in ''Wilson'' (1944) earned her a glamorous photo on the cover of Life magazine.
'' Broadcast in the spring of 1958, it starred Ms. Bel Geddes as a wife who murders her philandering husband by bludgeoning him with a frozen leg of lamb.
Ms. Bel Geddes's greatest critical acclaim came as Maggie, the restless young wife in a decaying family of Mississippi planters in ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
For several years beginning in 1963, the festival was run by the nonprofit Newport Folk Foundation, which Mr. and Mrs. Wein established with the folk singer Pete Seeger and his wife, Toshi.
In 1996, former Governor Wallace presented the Lurleen B. Wallace Award for Courage, named for his late wife, to Ms. Jones.
In London, she was in Joseph Kramm's ''Shrike'' (1953), with Sam Wanamaker; Clifford Odets's ''Winter Journey'' (1952), with Michael Redgrave; Aristophanes' ''Lysistrata'' (1957); Sartre's ''Huis Clos'' (''No Exit,'' 1962); Max Beerbohm's ''Social Success'' (1962); and as Martha, the alcoholic campus wife, in Albee's ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
At the time she was discovered, Mrs. Ryan was living as the wife of an electrical construction worker in Maspeth, where she was known for her scrupulous housecleaning and friendly manner.
Born in 1931 in Brooklyn, Ms. Jaffe grew up in posh circumstances on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, the only child of Samuel Jaffe, an elementary-school principal, and his first wife, Diana, a high-strung socialite who had an independent fortune and a suburban estate in Connecticut.
