Elspeth Josceline Huxley was born in July 1907, the only child of Maj. Josceline Grant, a Scot, and his formidable wife, the former Nellie Grosvenor.
Major Grant and his wife, now the owners of a pig and maize farm, had hoped that their daughter would eventually return to Kenya.
And a Dickens could even have contrived for her father's second wife to be the stepdaughter of Clarence Barron, the short, rotund powerhouse owner of The Wall Street Journal who encouraged his step-granddaughter to meet and study people of all walks of life, ''even gamblers and crooks,'' and who gave her what became her credo as a sometime journalist and spy: ''Facts are not the truth but only indicate where the truth may lie.
At the time, Miss Bancroft's second marriage was beginning to unravel, and Mr. Dulles, whose wife was in the United States, was looking for recruits to interview the hundreds of refugees, adventurers and spies who poured into officially neutral Switzerland from every corner of wartime Europe.
When her German maid's brother-in-law wrote from the Russian front asking for an aluminum spoon, noting that his wife had told him none was available in Germany, she picked up a critical clue about the war's effects on German production.
He was taking his wife, Elizabeth, and his daughter Edith to Seattle, where he intended to open a new hotel.
''
        Her first bit of luck was to be born, on March 20, 1920, to Edward Kenelm Digby, soon to become the 11th Baron Digby, and his wife, the former Constance Pamela Alice Bruce.
During bombing raids she shared the shelter under 10 Downing Street with the Prime Minister and his wife, Clementine.
'' A friend asked her to go to the theater with Hayward, whose wife, Slim, later known in New York society as Lady Keith, was in Europe.
The children loved their mother and their first stepmother, but not their father's new wife.
As the Wife of Harriman, She Buoys the Democrats
        Five months after Hayward's death, at a dinner party given by Katharine Graham, the publisher of The Washington Post, there was a serendipitous reunion with W. Averell Harriman, who had been widowed the year before.
With his new wife, however, he was generous, and began to live up to his means.
When Harriman's health deteriorated, his wife worked assiduously to keep him occupied, making sure he had visitors to keep him company when she was away.
Mourners thought they were witnessing his burial in the family plot next to his previous wife, Marie.
He told his wife to follow their advice, but Mr. Clifford soon became preoccupied with defending himself against charges growing out of allegations that he was involved in the huge B.C.C.I.
By the time they were married in 1931, Mrs. Gibson had obtained a master's degree from Columbia, but her husband was still a captain, a circumstance his wife set out to rectify in posts in the Philippines and the United States.
For four months in 1986, Surrogate Lambert presided over the trial pitting Barbara Piasecka Johnson, his one-time maid and third wife, to whom he had left his estate, and his six children by two former wives.
For four months in 1986, Surrogate Lambert presided over the trial pitting Barbara Piasecka Johnson, his one-time maid and third wife, to whom he had left his estate, and his six children by two former wives.
The daughter of a well-to-do Geneva furrier and his athletic Danish  wife, Ms. Maillart grew up rich and restless.
where is jan. 12, 1668, where his wife chased him out of bed and round the bedroom with a red-hot poker?
As she had put it in 1922, ''Women should be in the home, have adorable husbands, and be the only wife.

        Mary French Rockefeller, the wife of Laurance S. Rockefeller and for more than four decades active in promoting leadership opportunities for women, died at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center on Thursday from injuries she suffered in a fall in her Manhattan apartment.
She followed ''The Street,'' with two other novels, ''Country Place,'' (1947) about about a serviceman who returns from the war to discover his wife is having an affair, and ''The Narrows,'' (1953) about an interracial affair.
Ezekial A. Moore, a Methodist minister, and his wife, FloraBelle.

        Sophia Wittenberg Mumford, the wife and sometime editor of the critic and historian Lewis Mumford,  died on April 22 at her home in Amenia, N.Y. She was 97.
Ms. McLeod was also featured in ''Courage of Lassie'' (1946), ''That's My Man'' (1947), ''The Fabulous Texan'' (1947), ''Old Los Angeles'' (1948), ''My Wife's Best Friend'' (1952) and ''Ride the Wild Surf'' (1964).
Mrs. Youskevitch was the wife of Igor Youskevitch, one of this century's greatest male ballet dancers.
For someone who graduated from Girls' High School in Brooklyn, spent more than 30 years as a school principal's wife in Jersey City and had a later-life fling with poetry in Turkey, Mrs. Riggs had an uncommon attachment to Martha's Vineyard.
She was also something of a Washington insider: the wife of Leon H. Keyserling, a prominent economist who had been chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Harry S. Truman, and a woman of accomplishment with a wide circle of influential friends.
As a wife and mother in Boston, Ms. Cruso was hardly satisfied to confine her days to the garden-club circuit.
They were married in 1963 only months after the Duke divorced his third wife, Margaret, in one of Scotland's most celebrated divorce cases.
Mr. Bartlett and his previous wife, Helen Birch, had been among the first Americans to collect Post-Impressionist works, assembling a priceless collection of paintings by Cezanne, Picasso, van Gogh, Matisse and Seurat that went to the Art Institute upon Helen Birch Bartlett's death in 1925.

        Dorothy Buffum Chandler, whose vision and fund-raising fervor helped transform modern Los Angeles and who as the wife and mother of successive publishers helped turn The Los Angeles Times into one of the nation's great newspapers, died on Sunday at a rest home in Hollywood.
When Harry Chandler died in 1944, Norman Chandler took over as publisher, and four years later his wife was named his administrative assistant.
Even in the latter days of the Burkes' duty in the capital, as the wife of one of the military's senior officers, she threw open the doors of Admiral's House, a large Victorian structure in Washington that is now the official residence of the Vice President, and she befriended many junior officers' wives.
It was like, 'I'm a Navy wife, you're a Navy wife, let's sit down and talk.
It was like, 'I'm a Navy wife, you're a Navy wife, let's sit down and talk.
Along with the pipe, out came a note in his wife's neat handwriting.
Last fall, Mrs. Burke was honored with a ''Salute to a Sailor's Wife'' dinner at the Navy Memorial.
Although 35 years had passed since Mrs. Burke's days in Admiral's House, Margaret Dalton, wife of John H. Dalton, Secretary of the Navy, described her as ''still first lady of the Navy.
''
        Her role as a senior Navy wife and her 72-year partnership with the admiral were noted by President Clinton in his eulogy at the admiral's funeral.
Mrs. Burke asked that the epitaph on her tombstone, which will adjoin her husband's at the Naval Academy Cemetery in Annapolis, read simply: ''A sailor's wife.
Until 1931, she and Balanchine lived together as husband and wife, although they were never married.
His business survived the Depression, but a dessert of spoiled preserved cherries killed him, but not his wife, in 1942.

        Hallie Crawford Stillwell, who drove a covered wagon into Alpine, Tex., in 1910, worked as a teacher and then settled down and became a Big Bend legend as a sharp-shooting ranch wife on horseback, died on Monday at an Alpine hospital, two months and two days shy of her 100th birthday.
After a honeymoon in San Antonio, Mr. Stillwell, whose first wife had not been the ranching sort and had lived in town, took his bride home and proudly showed off the 12-by-16-foot one-room cabin where he had lived for years with three crusty and decidedly misogynist ranch hands.

        Audra Lindley, who starred on Broadway, in films and in more than 100 live television dramas but who gained her greatest fame playing a sex-starved wife in the television series ''Three's Company'' and its spinoff, ''The Ropers,'' died on Oct. 16 at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles.
Norman Fell played the landlord, and Ms. Lindley was his wife, whose repeated attempts to seduce her husband were a running joke.
Mrs. Howard, the wife of Jack R. Howard, the former chairman of Scripps Howard Broadcasting Corporation, was the author of two books and two screenplays.
Mrs. Hooker, her brother, Walter Annenberg, the former United States Ambassador to the Court of St. James, and Mr. Annenberg's wife, Lenore, jointly contributed $200,000 in 1987 to the renovation of Blair-Lee House.
''Not Mortimer,'' said his wife.
' ''
        Mrs. Peterson was born in 1906 in Provo, Utah, to two immigrants from Denmark, Lars Eggertsen, the local superintendent of schools, and his wife, Annie, who, according to her son, ''kept boarders because they didn't pay superintendents much in those days.
Mrs. Chubb married into the family in 1932, when she became the wife of Percy Chubb 2d, a former chairman of the Chubb insurance underwriters group.

        Simone Duvalier, who rose from a childhood of poverty and abandonment to become the wife of one Haitian dictator, mother of another and a power in her own right, died of undisclosed causes in a clinic outside Paris on Friday.
''The old dictator and his wife were often at odds over family matters.
But when her son was ousted from power in February 1986, Mrs. Duvalier joined him and his wife in exile, first in the French Alps and then in Paris.
''
        Judge Scheindlin, the daughter of a Russian immigrant and his American wife, was born in Washington.
She was the second wife of Mr. Rockefeller, the first Republican Governor of Arkansas since Reconstruction, who served two terms, from 1967 to 1970.

        Tamara Geva, a Russian-born dancer and actress who was the first wife of the choreographer George Balanchine, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
