Dominique de Menil, the daughter of Conrad Schlumberger and his wife, Louise Delpech, was born in Paris on March 23, 1908.
Wills and the first of her two husbands, the financier Frederick Moody, invited Rivera and his wife, the painter Frieda Kahlo, to a celebratory tea after the mural's unveiling at the former San Francisco Stock Exchange.
''
        Over the years, Mrs. Smith wrote, Mr. Paley's wife had an impact on him -- ''her political leanings, appetite for news, taste in art and sense of style.
She married the author in 1940, becoming his third wife.
Mr. Sheppard accompanied his wife on most of her trips.
Her star quotient increased exponentially in 1963, after her mother remarried, becoming the wife of Iva S. V. Patcevitch, the chairman of Conde Nast.
She is survived by her mother, Chesbrough Patcevitch; a half-brother, Charles Minot Amory 3d, and a nephew, Charles Minot Amory 4th, all of Palm Beach, Fla.
        She and Mica Ertegun, the wife of Ahmet Ertegun, the president of Atlantic Records, toyed with opening a restaurant.
In 1954, to be closer to Mrs. Kampen's parents, the couple built a house in Ridgefield, Conn., and might have settled into an idyllic New England life if Mr. Kampen hadn't had an affair with the architect's wife.
As it happened, Mrs. Sayre's husband, a crystallographer then working for I.B.M., was a host of the meeting, and he and his wife, who had met Dr. Franklin in Paris in the late 1940's, spent a lot of time listening to the visiting scientists complaining about Dr. Watson's portrayal of Dr. Franklin and speculating on whether her photograph had played a significant role in the discovery of the DNA structure.

        Betsey Cushing Roosevelt Whitney, the widow of John Hay (Jock) Whitney, the first wife of James Roosevelt and the last of the three glamorous Cushing sisters of Boston, died yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 89.
Five hundred leaders of the social and political worlds of Boston and New York watched the bride, in a floor-length gown of silver lame, exchange vows with the son of the Governor of New York and his wife.
She also introduced Minnie Cushing to Vincent Astor, and the two were married in 1940 after Mr. Astor divorced his first wife.
His wife followed him, but they separated, and early in 1940 it was disclosed that they were to be divorced.
Mr. Roosevelt filed for divorce on grounds of desertion, and his wife filed a cross-complaint on grounds of desertion and cruelty.
In 1949, Mr. Whitney adopted his wife's two daughters.
At the Vienna State Opera in 1977, and later at the Met, in one of her most renowned portrayals, Ms. Rysanek sang the Empress in Strauss's operatic fable ''Die Frau Ohne Schatten,'' with Ms. Nilsson as a dyer's wife.
Her first, in 1919, to a theater manager from Montreal, resulted from family pressure and soon ended in annulment when it was discovered that the man already had a wife in Belgium.
In an interview in 1970, he murmured, while his wife was out of the room, ''The political bug is a curious bug.

        Linda Eastman McCartney, the wife of the former Beatle Paul McCartney and a photographer whose portraits of 1960's rock stars have become classics, died on Friday in Santa Barbara, Calif., where the McCartneys were vacationing.
As the wife of a musician who had long been a teen-age heartthrob and was the last Beatle to be married,  Ms. McCartney first attracted the ire of her husband's fans, and eventually the respect of many of them.
They  never spent a night apart, except for the 10 days Mr. McCartney spent in a Tokyo jail after he was arrested for marijuana possession; indeed, their disinclination to be separated was part of Mr. McCartney's reason for having his wife in his touring band.
Her photographs of Mr. McCartney, however, adorned some of his post-Beatles album covers, and in one of his early television specials, ''James Paul McCartney,'' he is shown singing a medley of his songs while his wife did a photo shoot.
''Stand By Your Man'' made her  synonymous with the role of a long-suffering but determinedly loyal wife, holding the family together even when her husband strayed.
''Stand By Your Man'' established Ms. Wynette in the role of a long-suffering but determinedly loyal wife, holding the family together even when her husband strayed.
Born in Rochester to an Eastman Kodak chemist and his wife, Ms. Williams got her first taste of fame tap-dancing on the ''Howdy Doody Show'' at age 6 and had her first but not last run-in with the law at age 15 when she was arrested for sunbathing nude.
Then, too, Mrs. Mudd was the only wife and mother among the academics and social work specialists who met at the Mudds' home to plan the marriage council.
Mr. Vallee's wife sued for divorce, naming Ms. Faye as his love interest off screen as well.
''
        Ms. Faye had tried to change her screen image in that film noir melodrama, as the wife whose husband wants to dump her for the character played by Ms. Darnell.
Mr. Vallee's wife sued for divorce, naming Ms. Faye as his love interest off screen as well.
''
        Ms. Faye had tried to change her screen image in that film noir melodrama, as the wife whose husband wants to dump her for the character played by Ms. Darnell.
After attending the University of Georgia she married Ben Scott Whaley, who became a prominent Charleston lawyer, served a term in the state legislature, was United States Attorney for Charleston in the Truman Administration and played a crucial role in creating his wife's garden.
With his wife confined to bed during a difficult pregnancy in the summer of 1941, Mr. Whaley asked if there was some special present she would like.
Based on Clarence Day's reminiscences about his youth in New York in the 1880's, the play told the story of a large family, led by a frequently exasperated father tempered by his charming wife who put up with all his crotchets.
In 1962, she made her Broadway debut in Sumner Arthur Long's ''Never Too Late,'' playing opposite Paul Ford as a suddenly expectant middle-aged wife.
The original Carter Family band, which helped kick-start the country-music record industry in 1927, was begun by A. P. Carter, a railroad worker and farmer from Maces Springs, Va.; his wife, Sara, and Sara's cousin, Maybelle.
Ms. Perles's clients over the years included Woody Allen; Nancy Allen, the actress-wife of Brian De Palma, the movie director; the former Eve Ella Sherpick Green, the first wife of Harry B. Helmsley, the New York real estate titan; David Merrick, the producer; and Ethel Scull, who once was called the doyenne of the pop art world.
Her husband, Dr. Julian Timoner, a chiropractor who persuaded state authorities to release the body without an autopsy, said he believed that his wife had accidentally taken a fatal overdose combination of her prescribed medication and her usual sleeping pills.
''
        Chrissie, Mr. Albert said, was inspired by a television show he and his wife were watching one night about Rapunzel.
''
        Indeed, Miss Smith did so well as a jitney driver that she apparently impressed Ford and his wife, Clara.
As the wife of Kabir Bedi, a well-known film actor and producer in India, she had been leading the life of a heedless socialite, she said in an interview in The New York Times in 1996, when she caught sight of a guru teaching the dance form and found her life's goal.
With her strawberry blond hair, gleaming smile and rich Oklahoma twang -- Mrs. Carnegie was a student of Mr. Carnegie as well as his wife -- she proved as big a success in business as he was in motivational speaking.
She became Mr. Carnegie's secretary in January 1944 and, several months later, his second wife.
In 1974, Mrs. Harrington suffered two blows, the deaths of both her husband and, a few months later, their only child, Sally Harrington Goldwater, the wife of Robert Goldwater, the younger brother of Senator Barry Goldwater.
She spoke to President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, about the need for more money for cancer research, and, on a panel with Vice President Al Gore, she described her experiences as a cancer patient.
I just wanted to be a wife.
In her roles as the wife of a public figure and in her own brief time in the Senate, Muriel Humphrey supported the social programs that her husband championed.
I just wanted to be a wife.
In her roles as the wife of a public figure and in her own brief time in the Senate, Muriel Humphrey supported the social programs that her husband championed.

        Mary Frann, an actress best known for playing the wife of the comedian Bob Newhart in his second successful CBS series, ''Newhart,'' died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles.
For eight seasons in the 1980's, Ms. Frann played Joanna Loudon, the pleasant, stable wife of the often harried Dick Loudon, the character played by Mr. Newhart.
Ms. Frann was a more or less traditional sitcom wife dropped into the center of these offbeat and bizarre characters.
Mr. Newhart said: ''I played a sort of Everyman character and she was the wife of Everyman.
The bed was the one Mr. Newhart used in his previous series, ''The Bob Newhart Show,'' and next to him in the bed was Suzanne Pleshette, who played his wife in that show.
At the time of the German invasion, Mrs. Rosenberg, a native of Gorlice who had studied law at the University of Cracow, was the 27-year-old wife of a doctor who had escaped the Nazis by accepting a medical assignment with the retreating Soviet Army, leaving her behind with an infant son, Zygmund, and her adored younger brother, Romek.
Mrs. Barger, whose husband, Ernest, was a plumber who later operated a bowling alley managed by his wife, was the mother of two children when she joined a housewife's duckpin league in the late 1930's and discovered that she had a rare talent for a difficult game.
In 1956, she won the Clarence Derwent Award, then Britain's highest stage prize, for best supporting performance in Arthur Miller's ''View from the Bridge,'' in which she played a wife trying desperately to ignore her husband's incestuous feelings for his niece.
Mrs. Judd, then a 26-year-old secretary at a Phoenix medical clinic and the wife of a doctor, arrived at Union Station in Los Angeles on Oct. 18, 1931, on a train from Phoenix, accompanied by two trunks and several valises.

        Haru Matsukata Reischauer, a journalist and author who was influential in diplomatic affairs in the 1960's as the wife of the United States Ambassador to Japan, died on Sept. 23 in La Jolla, Calif. She was 83.
Before making decisions, Mr. Reischauer would consult with his wife, Mr. Immerman recalled.
After touring the United States with the Azpiazu orchestra (a musician's wife serving as her chaperone), then dancing with another orchestra at the Tavern on the Green in Central Park, Miss Parla (and her mother) joined Mr. Azpiazu for a European tour in 1932.
''My father was lucky he had an earthy wife who made all the decisions,'' he said.
She refused to leave the neighborhood, even after her husband died 10 years ago and her elder son asked her to move in with him and his wife downtown.
She began her performing career on the London stage, acted in some modest British films, then made some Hollywood movies for Universal -- largely forgettable, except for ''The Bride of Frankenstein,'' where she played the baron's wife -- and returned to Britain in the mid-1930's.
Invented in 1944 by Richard James, an engineer who worked at a Philadelphia shipyard, where he observed a torsion spring fall from a table, the toy was named by his wife, Betty, and the following year the sinuous Slinky was on its way to sales of an estimated 250 million.
In her greatest roles, among them Odette, the swan queen in ''Swan Lake,'' Aurora in ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' the title role in ''Giselle'' and the wife of Edward Elgar in Frederick Ashton's 1968 ''Enigma Variations,'' Ms. Beriosova was exquisitely lyrical yet possessed of an innate grandeur.
After World War II, she contributed scripts for such radio soaps as ''Stella Dallas,'' ''Our Gal Sunday'' and ''Backstage Wife.
Although Gerald enjoyed a brief career as a painter -- his small output remains well regarded -- he and his wife were content to occupy backstage roles as bartenders, muses and sometime financial angels to the foremost writers, composers and artists of their age.
Michael Puccino, an executive with a Manhattan computer consulting firm, and his wife, Anne Marie, a veterinary nurse, would help whenever they could.
One of the first and by far the fiercest and most controversial of the New Critics and a man of cocksure opinions, for all his fabled influence on 20th century American poetry, Mr. Winters may have made his greatest contribution to literature when his wife, whose life was virtually without drama, complained that she had trouble finding suitable plots and he gave her a chance copy of a 19th-century compilation of famous old legal cases.
By the time she had finished it, Miss Lewis had all but abandoned poetry and embarked on what turned out to be three short historical novels, ''The Wife of Martin Guerre'' (1941), ''The Trial of Soren Qvist'' (1947) and ''The Ghost of Monsieur Scarron'' (1959), all based on actual cases and so compellingly imagined and told that she inspired the 1956 ''Wife of Martin Guerre'' opera by William Bergsman, who asked her to write the libretto.
