She graduated summa cum laude from the University of California, Los Angeles, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and won a National Science Foundation research scholarship.
As a young actress, she consistently won praise for her roles in movies like ''Easter Parade'' (1948), in which she danced most gracefully with Fred Astaire as she tried to woo him away from Judy Garland; ''Kiss Me Kate'' (1953), in which she portrayed Lois Lane, the nightclub hoofer who became Bianca in Cole Porter's version of ''Taming of the Shrew''; and ''On the Town'' (1949), which paired her with Jules Munshin, the sidekick of Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly, sailors desperately looking for girls on their 24-hour leave in New York.
Ms. Winde received a Tony nomination for her Broadway debut in 1972, and won an Audelco Award for Excellence in Black Theater three years ago.

        Fanny Blankers-Koen, a Dutch housewife who emulated her hero, Jesse Owens, and won four gold medals in track and field in one Olympics -- the only woman to do so -- died yesterday in Amsterdam.
Her most memorable moment came, however, when she got the autograph of Owens, the American sprinter who won four gold medals.
In the 1948 London Olympics, the 5-foot-9, 140-pound Blankers-Koen won four of the nine track and field events for women.
When the band struck up ''God Save the King,'' she thought it meant that an English rival had won.
Instead, the music marked the arrival of King George VI, and moments later Blankers-Koen learned that she had won.
''
        She cried, then won the 200 final by 7 yards, the widest margin ever in an Olympics, in 24.4 seconds.
Then, in the 4x100-meter relay, she took the baton for the anchor leg in fourth place, 5 yards behind the leader, and won a photo finish in 47.5 seconds.
In seven days, she ran 11 races and won them all.
She won three gold medals in the 1950 European championships and, despite painful boils on a leg, she ran the 80-meter hurdles in the 1952 Helsinki Olympics.
After a bidding war, Warner Books won the rights to publish the novel for $4.94 million.
She was about to have a lobotomy when a hospital official read that she had won a literary prize.
Ms. Frame's 12 novels, four story collections, one poetry collection and three volumes of autobiography won dozens of awards.
As a young woman she won a beauty contest and was given some cosmetics that irritated her skin.
'' For that performance, she won her first Tony.
Having won a gold medal in the backstroke at the Los Angeles Games in 1932, she was favored to repeat at the Berlin Olympics.
Then, during a stopover in Cherbourg, France, she won a couple of hundred dollars playing dice with sportswriters aboard the ship during the afternoon.

        Patricia Falkenhain Geiringer, a classical repertory actress who won critical acclaim for her many roles Off Broadway, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Newcastle, Me.
She won three Obie Awards for her Off Broadway work as well as a Drama Critics Award.
Correction:  February 4, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Patricia Falkenhain Geiringer, a stage actress, misstated the name of the Shakespeare play in which her portrayal of Doll Tearsheet won an Obie.
Though Leo House ultimately won the fight, the evictions were stalled for several years.
Ms. Cullman was a producer of at least nine Broadway shows, including Yasmina Reza's ''Art,'' which won the Tony and New York Drama Critics Circle awards for best play in 1998.
'' He won narrowly, and the statewide attention that the race drew helped set him on his path to the governorship.
Ms. Golovkina was an assertive representative of Soviet-era ballet, and her students won many international competitions.
The demands of motherhood were soon joined by the rigors of campaigning as Mr. Lindsay won three terms as a congressman from the city's ''Silk Stocking District,'' serving from 1959 to 1965.
'' She predicted that women's colleges would become less necessary, and she won authority to establish Connecticut College for Men and then admitted men as graduate students.
''It's difficult for the many women thriving in broadcast journalism today to imagine the battles Joan Richman fought and won on their behalf,'' said Andrew Heyward, the president of CBS News, in the statement from the family.
Ms. McGrory won the Pulitzer Prize for commentary in 1975 for her columns on Watergate.
In 1963, Mrs. Hudson brought the first suit to desegregate schools in a rural Mississippi county and won the case the next year.

        Virginia Capers, an actress and singer who won a Tony Award in 1974 for her role in ''Raisin,'' the musical version of ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' died on Thursday in Los Angeles.
''
        Ms. Capers won the Tony for best actress in a musical.
The show, which also starred Deborah Allen, Ernestine Jackson and Joe Morton, was nominated for nine Tonys, and also won for best musical.
''
        Ms. Taylor won an Emmy Award for her choreography on ''The Jackie Gleason Show'' in 1955.
In 2002, Ms. Breslin and Mr. Dunne won awards for two documentaries related to the aftermath of Sept. 11, 2001, ''Women of Rockaway'' and ''A Smile Gone, But Where?
Tai Babilonia and Randy Gardner are the only other American pair skaters to have won a world championship, at Vienna in 1979.
No American pair has won a gold medal at the Olympics.
The Kennedys also won the 1949 and the 1951 North American Figure Skating Championships.
Miss Watanabe had won second prize in that Tokyo competition.
Under her tenure, The San Diego Tribune won two Pulitzer prizes.
As Ms. Emerson put it in her own obituary: ''Her dispatches from Vietnam won a George Polk Award for excellence in foreign reporting, and, later, a Matrix Award from New York Women in Communications.
Her nonfiction book on the war, 'Winners & Losers' (Random House, 1977), won a National Book Award in 1978 but she described it as 'too huge and somewhat messy.
When she heard that the studio was casting ''Uncle Tom's Cabin,'' she encouraged Virginia to audition -- and she won the role.
Her best-known book was ''Manet and the Modern Tradition'' (Yale, 1977), which won the Charles Rufus Morey Award for art history scholarship.
''
        Ms. Sagan won the Prix des Critiques in 1954 for ''Bonjour Tristesse'' and the Prix de Monaco 30 years later for her work as a whole.
She won 92 games and lost 60 and was a three-time All-Star, according to Ms. Johnson.
Ms. Rubens won Britain's prestigious Booker Prize for fiction in 1970 for ''The Elected Member,'' the story of a Jewish family whose secrets drive one son insane.
Parks won two Emmy Awards: one in 1980 for producing the 34th annual Tony Awards and one for producing ''The Night of 100 Stars'' in 1982.
She won the Caldecott Medal, the highest award for authors and artists in her field, for Margaret Hodges's ''St.
She won Caldecott honors three times, for ''Little Red Riding Hood''; ''A Child's Calendar,'' with text by John Updike; and ''Hershel and the Hanukkah Goblins'' by Eric A. Kimmel (Holiday House, 1989).
'' In the 1950's she also wrote some stories about children and animals that won her wide recognition and awards, including ''Four Little Foxes,'' ''Elephant Herd,'' and ''When Will the World Be Mine?
Among her few diversions were expensive clothes, classical music and gin rummy, at which she usually won.
      
''
        That book, which won the National Book Critics Circle Award for criticism in 1978, explored the role of the photographic image, and the act of picture-taking in contemporary culture.
''
        Mr. Henry wrote that he considered Ms. Van Duyn's first three books to be her best, especially ''To See, To Take,'' her second, which won the National Book Award for Poetry in 1971.
A year before becoming poet laureate, Ms. Van Duyn won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry.

        Bernarda Bryson Shahn, the widow of the painter Ben Shahn, who won her own recognition as an artist late in life, died on Sunday at her home in Roosevelt, N.J., her son, Jonathan Shahn, said.
