Ms. Carter won a Tony for best featured actress in that musical.
Three years later she won an Emmy for the NBC television production of the same show.
It won a 1998 Pulitzer Prize for editorials about schools and other local issues, written by its editor and co-publisher, Mrs. Stein's son Bernard L. Stein.
It won the Prix Médicis literary award.
Just one day earlier, President Bush had awarded her the National Humanities Medal, one of numerous honors she had won for turning a historical landmark into an important place to learn and enjoy American history and culture.
At 16 she won a walk-on part with a stock company that turned into a talking role.
A favorite with European audiences from the 1940's on, she later won acclaim in New York, particularly for her appearances as Azucena in ''Il Trovatore,'' Amneris in ''Aida,'' Adalgisa in Bellini's ''Norma,'' and in the Verdi Requiem.
She won a Theater World Award for her performance.
A Montana cowgirl, Ms. Orr won three national rodeo championships in the 1930's and 40's.
In recent years her songs resurfaced and won new fans on television commercials and in dance-club remixes.
''I don't know if I feel vindicated, but I think it clearly shows that I won it for him the first two times,'' Mrs. Griffiths said after Mr. Blanchard's defeat.
Steinbeck won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1962.
The best won trophies; no one won more than Miss LaBeija, who took away around 250, mostly for extravagant takes on high fashion.
The best won trophies; no one won more than Miss LaBeija, who took away around 250, mostly for extravagant takes on high fashion.
''
        She was also praised for her performance as Emily in the film version, but lost the Academy Award to Ginger Rogers, who won for ''Kitty Foyle.
Hale became a leading player, and in December 1990 she and her daughters Sunny and Stormie, along with France's leading polo-playing woman, Caroline Anier, won the first United States Women's Open.
In 1997, the series won the Novartis Prize for Excellence in International Journalism from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies.
''
        In 1998, Ms. Neuffer won a Courage in Journalism Award from the International Women's Media Foundation.
1 pop hit and won a Grammy.
(They won another Grammy for their duet ''If I Were a Carpenter'' in 1970.
In 1999 she released her second solo album, ''Press On,'' a rough, unostentatious, charming record, which won a Grammy.
Over the next five years, she won increasingly important roles and gained her first starring part, as the Lancashire heroine in ''Love on the Dole,'' an adaptation of Walter Greenwood's novel.
They won, and for the first time, a segregated white public school was ordered by an American court to admit black children.
She won an Academy Award for her role as Eva Lovelace, the naïve aspiring actress who learns a tough lesson about survival, in the 1933 film ''Morning Glory,'' only her third movie.
Miss Hepburn won three more, for ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner,'' ''The Lion in Winter'' and ''On Golden Pond,'' but never showed up to collect any of them.
''We bought this house in '31, and then the minute I won the Academy Award, I got rid of Luddy.
Sixty acres of the original farm won historic status in 1990.
Her squad won its first 14 games and finished 17-2, reaching the semifinals for the seventh time in her 15 years as head coach and the third time in the past four seasons.
By the time the Khmer Rouge won power in 1975 and undertook the revolution that led to the deaths of 1.7 million people, she was incapacitated by her illness.
She won a radio talent contest after a cousin took her to the radio station García Serra; first prize was a cake.
In 1989, Ms. Cruz won a Grammy award for best tropical Latin performance for an album in collaboration with Mr. Barretto, ''Ritmo en el Corazón.
She won the first Latin Grammy Award for best tropical album in 2000.
That same month, her 2002 album, ''La Negra Tiene Tumbao,'' won the Grammy Award for best salsa album.
As well as a Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1995, the novel won the National Book Critics Circle Award and the Governor General's Award for fiction, and was shortlisted for a Booker Prize.
''The Republic of Love'' (1992) played with the romance-novel form -- tracing a courtship with chapters that alternate between male and female viewpoints -- and won Ms. Shields a wider international audience.
'' In 1986 she was nominated for a Tony for her role in ''Jerome Kern Goes to Hollywood'' and won an Obie for her one-woman show, ''Time to Start Living.
She won four Edgar Allan Poe Awards, known as Edgars, from the Mystery Writers of America, of which she was a past president.
Her books that won Edgar Awards (all in the juvenile or young adult category) were ''The Kidnapping of Christina Lattimore'' (1979), ''The Seance'' (1980), ''The Other Side of Dark'' (1986) and ''The Name of the Game Was Murder (1993).
Her little band won legal standing in 1965 to take on the Federal Power Commission and the developer, Consolidated Edison.
She became his friend and principal portraitist and in 1955 made a film, ''The Days of Dylan Thomas,'' which won international prizes.
Recently Mrs. Bronander sold two $1 million houses, and most years she has had more than $3 million in sales; for three years she has won the silver award from the New Jersey Association of Realtors: 20 properties sold for a total of $7.5 million.
In 1998, Mrs. Reeves won the Chester A. Reynolds Award for major contributions to the Western way of life from the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum in Oklahoma City, one of two women to do so.
She won 56 tournaments, including five Grand Slam singles titles -- the United States nationals and Wimbledon twice, in 1957 and 1958, and the French championship in 1956.
A natural athlete who excelled in virtually every sport she tried, Gibson took up paddle tennis at 9 and won a citywide championship when she was 12.
In 1942 she won her first tournament, the New York State girls' championship, sponsored by the American Tennis Association, which had been organized in 1916 by black players as an alternative to the United States Lawn Tennis Association.
Even after she had won the 1950 Eastern Indoor Championship and a clamor had begun to let her play in the National Grass Court Championships at Forest Hills, the precursor of the United States Open, the powers of tennis seemed to close ranks to keep her out.
But the rains came, the match was suspended, and when it resumed the next day, Brough won three straight games to win the match.
In 1956 she won 16 of her first 18 tournaments, including the French championship at Roland Garros, her first title at a Grand Slam event.
She won in doubles again in 1957, with Darlene Hard, and in 1958, with Maria Bueno.
''
        Having won Wimbledon, Gibson rolled through the national championship at Forest Hills.
In the early 1960's she became the first black player to compete on the women's golf tour, but she never won a tournament.
The attention she gained with Mr. Benny won her a spot on ''Your Hit Parade,'' replacing June Valli.
Her first Sudan book, ''Last of the Nuba,'' published in the United States in 1974, won her recognition as a photographer and to some extent rehabilitated her as an artist.
The film won Ms. Riefenstahl assorted German prizes, and although she again pledged to make no more party films, she then made an 18-minute documentary, ''Day of Freedom: Our Army,'' about the Wehrmacht in 1935.
Mrs. Hicks won election to the City Council by a landslide in 1969.
In 1970 she won a race to fill a vacant seat in the House of Representatives, but was defeated in 1972.

        Dorothy Loudon, the actress and comedian who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her portrayal of Miss Hannigan, the mean-spirited orphanage headmistress in the hit musical ''Annie,'' died yesterday.
She won the Tony Award for leading actress in a musical over her 13-year-old co-star, Andrea McArdle, who played the title role.

        Dorothy Loudon, the actress and comedian who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her portrayal of Miss Hannigan, the mean-spirited orphanage headmistress in the hit musical ''Annie,'' died on Saturday.
She won the Tony Award for leading actress in a musical over her 13-year-old co-star, Andrea McArdle, who played the title role.
She won a gold medal as part of the 400-meter freestyle relay, and she won the bronze medal in the 100 and 400 individual freestyle events.
She won a gold medal as part of the 400-meter freestyle relay, and she won the bronze medal in the 100 and 400 individual freestyle events.
The cause was an intestinal infection brought on by a bout of diverticulitis, according to Ms. Lange's husband, Charles Hollerith Jr.
        With her naturally blond hair, lithe dancer's figure and simple, straightforward style, Ms. Lange won praise for her first film role as a young woman who befriended a temptress played by Marilyn Monroe at a bus stop in the 1956 romantic comedy ''Bus Stop.
Her first husband, the actor Don Murray, encouraged her to try acting, her son said, and Ms. Lange eventually began acting in films and later won two Emmy Awards for her portrayal of a widow in the television series ''The Ghost and Mrs.
A year after the convention, Mrs. Pinkett ran for City Council in New York and won.
