She was re-elected to a second term, then won two terms in the State Senate.
Mrs. Corday, who won an Emmy for her work on ''Days of Our Lives'' in 1978, created the daytime television series - the first color soap opera - in 1965 with her husband, Ted.
Then, as an independently wealthy young woman, she traveled widely, wrote essays, poems and fiction, and won praise as a novelist.
She also won numerous European literary prizes, was decorated by the French and Belgian Governments and was a member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters and the Academy of the French Language and Literature of Belgium.

       Maria Augusta von Trapp, the guiding force behind a family of singers who won world reknown when their story was portrayed in the play and film ''The Sound of Music,'' died of heart failure yesterday in Morrisville, Vt., three days after undergoing surgery.
She was 82 years old, and had lived in Stowe,
        Maria Augusta von Trapp, the guiding force behind a family of singers who won world reknown when their story was portrayed in the play and film ''The Sound of Music,'' died of heart failure yesterday in Morrisville, Vt., three days after undergoing surgery.
The young woman quickly won the affection of the children and, when the Baron proposed marriage, she was torn between her devotion to the church and the family.
In August 1936, the family's informal singing became a professional enterprise when they won a choral competition at the Salzberg Festival.

       Maria Augusta von Trapp, the guiding force behind a family of singers who won world renown when their story was portrayed in the play and film ''The Sound of Music,'' died of heart failure Saturday in Morrisville, Vt., three days after undergoing surgery.
She was 82 years old, and had lived in Stowe,
        Maria Augusta von Trapp, the guiding force behind a family of singers who won world renown when their story was portrayed in the play and film ''The Sound of Music,'' died of heart failure Saturday in Morrisville, Vt., three days after undergoing surgery.
The young woman quickly won the affection of the children and, when the Baron proposed marriage, she was torn between her devotion to the church and the family.
In August 1936, the family's informal singing became a professional enterprise when they won a choral competition at the Salzberg Festival.
Mrs. Stark won the United States Lawn Tennis Association national doubles championship with Marjorie (Midge) Van Ryan in 1936.
She also won the Wooden Gold Cup, emblematic of the doubles championship, in 1934 at the Maidstone Club in East Hampton, L.I.
'' Won Tony Award in 1979
        In 1950, after her marriage to Mr. Kirby had ended in divorce, she married Mr. Jackson and temporarily retired from singing to raise her daughter, Paula.

       Anna Maximilian Potok, a co-founder of Maximilian Furs, whose luxurious styles won her an international audience, died of heart failure yesterday in her Manhattan apartment.
Anna Maximilian Potok, a co-founder of Maximilian Furs, whose luxurious styles won her an international audience, died of heart failure yesterday in her Manhattan apartment.
Mr. Michener, one of Miss Strauss's early clients and one of six who won the Pulitzer Prize, dedicated the Modern Library edition of his selected writings to her as a ''friend of writers.
He hired press agents to get the name and picture of Rita Hayworth into newspapers and fan magazines, and ultimately won her a seven-year contract at Columbia Pictures.
Within a year, she won the role of the flapper in the touring company of ''The Gingham Girl,'' and soon after was signed to the title role of ''Little Jessie James.
''Almanac'' ran for 227 performances, and Miss Gingold won the Donaldson Award in 1954 for her performance.

       Dalida, an Egyptian-born singer and actress who first won fame in France for her song ''Bambino'' in 1954, was found dead Sunday from an apparent overdose of barbiturates, according to family members.
Dalida, an Egyptian-born singer and actress who first won fame in France for her song ''Bambino'' in 1954, was found dead Sunday from an apparent overdose of barbiturates, according to family members.

       Cathryn Damon, a stage and television actress who won an Emmy for her role on the popular television spoof ''Soap,'' died of cancer Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.
Cathryn Damon, a stage and television actress who won an Emmy for her role on the popular television spoof ''Soap,'' died of cancer Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.
Both Miss Damon and Richard Mulligan, who played Burt, won Emmys in 1980 for their performances in the show.
She was a world master of the World Bridge Federation and won North American championships in various events in 1978, 1981, 1983, 1985 and 1986.

       Elizabeth (Libba) Cotten, who won a Grammy Award in 1985 for a collection of her blues and folk songs, died today at a Syracuse hospital.
Elizabeth (Libba) Cotten, who won a Grammy Award in 1985 for a collection of her blues and folk songs, died today at a Syracuse hospital.
''
        Miss Page won two Emmy awards for her television performances, both in the late 1960's for roles in adaptations of Truman Capote stories, ''A Christmas Memory'' and ''The Thanksgiving Visitor.
In a playing career lasting more than 30 years, she won four world titles and 11 national titles.
She recalled that when she won a citywide spelling contest at the age of 13, she was unable to attend the award ceremony because her shoes were in tatters.
''Madame Du Barry,'' released in the United States under the title ''Passion,'' won her a Paramount Pictures contract and she was brought here in 1922.
She sued the French magazine that initiated the reports and won a 10,000-franc judgment.
She won the Coupe des Dames, the highest award for women, in the 1953 Alpine Rally.
Miss van Damm also won the Women's European Touring Championship in 1954 and the Coupe des Dames in the 1955 Monte Carlo Rally.
In the same year, 1941, she was a ruthless, egocentric concert pianist battling Bette Davis in ''The Great Lie,'' for which Miss Astor won an Oscar as the best actress in a supporting role.
Won Beauty Contest at 11
        During the 30-day trial, Hollywood producers, fearing the scandal would damage the film industry, pressed Miss Astor to drop the suit, but she refused, risking her reputation and career to keep her daughter.
The girl won her first movie contract with Famous Players-Lasky and, with it, the name Mary Astor.
But she won fame on her own as magazine writer and editor, author of ''The Women'' and other hit plays, controversial Republican member of the House of Representatives from Connecticut, and, finally, in the Eisenhower Administration, a hardworking and often praised Ambassador to Italy.
After six years of marriage she won a divorce on grounds of mental cruelty and was awarded $425,000 plus education expenses for her daughter, Ann Clare Brokaw.
She won re-election in 1944, campaigning with fire but concealing sorrow.
At the age of 11 she won her first competition, and she eventually took every possible prize for cellists at the Guildhall School of Music.
