The first running of the Belmont Stakes in 1867 was won by the filly Ruthless, who raced for Francis Morris, the great-grandfather of Mrs. Morris's husband, John A. Morris.
Housing projects begun under her leadership won unaccustomed design awards.
Ms. Roberts was a Capezio Award honoree in 1991 and won a Bessie Award in 1986.
Mrs. McKean won four national junior girls' tennis titles, playing out of Boston, and five national women's titles, in indoors singles and doubles.
The campaign, which is still on the air, has won several industry awards, including the 1994 Best Global Campaign from the International Advertising Association.
Despite the absence of party backing and the disdain of the city's editorial pages, she ran a raw and raucous campaign -- and won.
Despite the absence of party backing and the disdain of the city's editorial pages, she ran a raw and raucous campaign -- and won.

        Helene Hanff, whose wittily acerbic 20-year correspondence with a London bookseller she never met won her a passionate following after it was published as the epistolary memoir ''84, Charing Cross Road,'' died on Wednesday at the De Witt Nursing Home in Manhattan.
Her career began auspiciously in 1938, when she won a fellowship from the Bureau of New Plays as a result of a nationwide competition.
Miss Frooks, who eventually won a suspended sentence for her client,  became so incensed that the girl's widowed mother had been forced to neglect her children while struggling to eke out a living that she helped prod the legislature into establishing aid to dependent children.
A resident of Chevy Chase, she was was 57 and had won six American and four world age-group championships in the sport, which combines running, swimming and cycling.
She won the first of her six consecutive national championships in 1991, captured the first of her four world titles in 1992 and was so dominant in the United States that when she placed second last weekend in a race in Birmingham, Ala., the 55-year-old woman who beat her was described as stunned.
A powerful runner who held her own in swimming, Ms. Flannery proved especially adept at cycling, so much so that she won five national age-group titles in time trials.
' And when they'd stand up and cheer, I'd won.
''The Murder of Hound Dog Bates: A Novel'' won an Edgar Allan Poe Award in 1983.
The girl who won had a collection from her father's garden, neatly pressed.
She won an Obie Award in 1985 for sustained excellence of performance.
She won praise for her portrayal of a matriarchal Mississippi grandmother in Leslie Lee's 1990 play ''Ground People.
She won the contest and said that soon thereafter she was cast in her first musical, began playing leading roles in Athens theaters and eventually became known as the Judy Garland of Greece.
All but Dr. King, who won the Nobel Peace Prize and took Ms. Daves with him to Stockholm when he received the award, were laureates in literature.
Moody won the next four games and the match, 6-3, 3-6, 7-5, for her seventh Wimbledon title.
She danced the Marilyn Miller part in ''The Great Ziegfeld'' and was cast as the new teacher, Miss Lawrence, in a series of ''Our Gang'' shorts, the best of which, ''Bored of Education,'' won an Oscar.
Mrs. Oku won a seat the next year in the upper house of Parliament and served for three six-year terms.
In the 1970's, she led a successful drive to make sexual harassment illegal in the state, a triumph that won her election to the Michigan Women's Hall of Fame.
For her performance in ''The Trojan Women'' at Circle in the Square in 1963, she won an Obie and the Clarence Derwent Award.
Reflecting its editor's fascination with the news and with the newspaper's daily production, her journal offered Tom Wicker's account of covering the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in Dallas; A. M. Rosenthal on his expulsion from Poland for reports that won a Pulitzer Prize; Claude Sitton on civil rights clashes in the South, and Robert Lipsyte on how to report a boxing match with a screaming fan standing on your typewriter.
So the unenvious task of trying to put a brave face on the McGovern campaign fell to Mrs. Westwood, who became the chairman of the Democratic National Committee after Mr. McGovern won the Democratic nomination.

        Lucy Somerville Howorth, a lawyer who said her advocacy of women's rights was inspired by the campaign that won women the vote under the 19th Amendment, died on Aug. 23 at her home in Cleveland, Miss.
The same year she won first prize at the Munich International Competition.
Her 1962 documentary, ''Robert Frost: A Lover's Quarrel With the World,'' a portrait of the poet, won an Oscar.
The film, ''Robert Frost: A Lover's Quarrel With the World,'' won an Academy Award in 1963 not for her but for its producer, Robert Hughes.
      

        Mother Teresa, the Roman Catholic nun who won the 1979 Nobel Peace Prize for her work among the poorest of the world's poor, died yesterday in Calcutta, India, where she had lived since her work with the destitute began five decades ago.
By the time Mother Teresa won the Nobel Prize, her order had attracted 1,800 nuns and 120,000 lay workers, running more than 80 centers in India and more than 100 others in other parts of the world.
In the 1970's the Government took measures to discourage such work, and by the time she won the prize the number of missionaries in India had shrunk to only a few hundred.
''
        Before long -- in 1950 -- she won canonical recognition for her new order, the Missionaries of Charity.
One project was ''784 Days That Changed America -- From Watergate to Resignation,'' which won the Peabody Award.
Ms. Miro's film ''Beltenebros,'' a tale of intrigue about the resistance during Franco's dictatorship, won a Silver Bear award at the Berlin Film Festival in 1992.
She won respect even from many leading conservatives, who attended her funeral today.
Among the directors who acknowledged the benefit were Pedro Almodovar, nominated for an Oscar in 1989 for ''Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown,'' and Fernando Trueba, who won the foreign-film Oscar in 1994 for ''Belle Epoque.
In March 1942, Miss Harshaw won the Metropolitan Opera's Auditions of the Air, and she began her career at the house at the start of the next season.

        Catharine Carver, who won trans-Atlantic esteem as the editor of a galaxy of mid-20th century authors, including Hannah Arendt, John Berryman, Saul Bellow and Flannery O'Connor, died on Tuesday at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London.
Aileen Ward, whose biography of John Keats won a National Book Award, said she was impressed that Ms.
Yet she won the British Amateur championship four times (1922, 1924, 1925 and 1929) and the English Amateur five consecutive years (1920 through 1924).
In a classic British Amateur final, she was five shots down after 11 holes to the American champion Glenna Collett, but won the scheduled 36-hole match, 3 and 1.
In one exhibition, her partner was Charlie Yates, an American who won the British Amateur three years later.
Their garden won the Royal Horticultural Society's Victoria Medal of Honor.
Ms. Henry won many awards, including the John Newbery Honor Award for ''Misty of Chincoteague''  and the Newbery Medal for ''King of the Wind.
In 1988, when she won a $7 million jackpot the first time she played the New York State Lottery, Miss Katzenbogen was a cosmetics consultant living at home with her parents and younger brother in Canarsie, where the whole family collected and sheltered stray cats.
Their first restaurant, also called Huberts, opened in 1979 in a romantically ornate Victorian corner bar in Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, where they quickly won critical acclaim.
''She won the strike,'' her son Iver said over the weekend, ''after she told the women to picket the boss but to dress nicely, because the police in Boston used to back their horses into pickets, 'but if you are properly dressed, the police won't do it.
In 1996, she won the Governor's Award from the Washington State Commission for the Humanities.
''
        For her role in ''Brigadoon,'' she won many awards, including the Donaldson Award for best debut performance by an actress in a musical.
The model was later published by Dr. Holley as part of a larger set of work that won him a share of the Nobel Prize for unraveling the genetic code of RNA.
She represented the United States in 1996 at the Blenheim Castle three-day event in England; also that year she won the fall national championship three-day event of the United States equestrian team at Fair Hill.
Earlier this year she won the Essex three-day event in Gladstone, N.J.
        She was born on Aug. 22, 1968, in Boston, the daughter of Robert S. Pirie, vice chairman of investment banking at Societe Generale Securities Corporation, and Deirdre H. Pirie, also an equestrian.
Her initiative won the attention of Congress in 1949, when she coordinated testimony on eye research before the House.
