Mrs. Raskin, a native of New York City, won a scholarship to the Juilliard School when she was 16.
Mrs. Kratschmer, who founded her own company, Mary Brosnan Inc., in 1940, won the Neiman-Marcus Fashion Award in recognition of her contributions to fashion.
An active freelance writer, she won a Deems Taylor/Ascap award for criticism and Peabody and Armstrong Awards for programs she produced.
Her radio copy for clients in the arts and entertainment had won three Big Apple Radio Awards.
During her tenure as chairman, the company won the Queen's Award to Industry three times.
      
She married the abstract painter George L. K. Morris in 1935 Under the name of Suzy Morris, she won considerable acclaim for several seasons as a soprano with the City Center Opera, making her debut in ''Ariadne auf Naxos'' in 1947.
Mrs. Short won the Canadian and the German national championships and was a finalist at the United States Clay Court Championship and the French Open and a semifinalist at Wimbledon.
Her efforts failed, but she represented the party in the condemnation proceedings and won a generous settlement for it.
Won a Newbery Medal
        Mrs. Estes won several literary prizes, the most prestigous being a John Newbery Medal for the most distinguished children's book, in 1952 for ''Ginger Pye.
Won a Newbery Medal
        Mrs. Estes won several literary prizes, the most prestigous being a John Newbery Medal for the most distinguished children's book, in 1952 for ''Ginger Pye.
Her performance in 1976 as the widowed mother of four young daughters in ''Ladyhouse Blues,'' produced by the Phoenix Theater Company, won her an Obie award.

       Anne Ramsey, whose portrayal of the ogre-like mother in the comedy ''Throw Momma From the Train'' won her an Academy Award nomination, died of throat cancer Thursday night, her press agent, Stan Rosenfield, said today.
Anne Ramsey, whose portrayal of the ogre-like mother in the comedy ''Throw Momma From the Train'' won her an Academy Award nomination, died of throat cancer Thursday night, her press agent, Stan Rosenfield, said today.
She worked there until two years ago, when she was severely injured by an intruder at the restaurant during the victory parade in lower Manhattan for the New York Mets, who had won the World Series.
She won a Venice Festival award for most promising actress in 1947, and the British National Film Award for her performance in ''Saints and Sinners'' in 1949.

       Elma Stuckey, a former schoolteacher who won acclaim late in life with her poetry about black Americans from the time of slavery to the present and who published her second volume of poems last year at age 80, died of a heart attack at Washington Hospital Center on Friday.
She was 81 years old and lived in
        Elma Stuckey, a former schoolteacher who won acclaim late in life with her poetry about black Americans from the time of slavery to the present and who published her second volume of poems last year at age 80, died of a heart attack at Washington Hospital Center on Friday.
'' The performance won the actress a 1936 Oscar nomination.
Her books have won many awards, including three Newbury Medals for literature and two Caldecott Medals for illustration, the most important children's book awards.
Previously, she served on the state's Public Utility Commission, a period in which she won an antidiscrimination suit against Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, for refusing her a job.
She began her career acting in provincial theaters after World War II and won minor roles in films and television.
In 1967, she won the Harmon International Aviation Trophy, and she was made an officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1968.
Horses racing under her colors have won the Woodward, the English Grand National, the Santa Anita Handicap and many other major races.
Her paternal grandfather, Michael Lee, won renown in the movement, rising to be a member of the Scottish Miners' Executive.
Her productions won many local theater awards.
Reviewing her Metropolitan Opera debut, Olin Downes wrote in The New York Times, ''The shining light of this performance was Miss Seefried, whose beautiful voice and brilliancy and authority of style won her instant recognition.

       Elizabeth Ramos, who won a $750,000 jury verdict in an AIDS malpractice case and later became an advocate promoting understanding of the disease, died Friday.
Elizabeth Ramos, who won a $750,000 jury verdict in an AIDS malpractice case and later became an advocate promoting understanding of the disease, died Friday.
Previously, Ms. Cornfeld won an Emmy Award for her writing on ABC's ''F.Y.I.
