''We mourn her passing,'' said Steve Forbes, a Republican presidential contender who has won the endorsement of the newspapers.
Mrs. Ferraro won fame under the name Margie Hart, and was billed as ''the poor man's Garbo.
It won no awards there but attracted attentive audiences, most of them men.
But Miss Lamarr never achieved the stardom of some of her fellow emigrees -- Greta Garbo, Greer Garson or Marlene Dietrich -- all of whom won plaudits not just for their  sex appeal but also for their acting.
''
        Summing up her many causes, she told the American Immigration Lawyers Association last year, ''We lost most of the battles but we won the war in all of them.
''Thanks to the coinage,'' the columnist William Safire later wrote, ''the battle is being won by the anti-squeal forces.
'' Reflecting this serious, lifelong commitment to the writer's craft, she won Canada's most prestigious literary award, the Governor General's Award, at regular intervals: in 1960, in 1975 and in 1992.
''
        In 1970 Ms. Hebert won wide acclaim for her novel ''Kamouraska,'' a tale of adultery and murder set in a small northern Quebec village of her ancestors.
As a teenager, she entered a national singing contest and won; she also appeared in television variety shows and in Israeli movies.
She won the Israeli equivalent of the Grammy Award for best female singer in 1980, 1981 and 1986, and won second prize in the 1983 Eurovision Song Contest.
She won the Israeli equivalent of the Grammy Award for best female singer in 1980, 1981 and 1986, and won second prize in the 1983 Eurovision Song Contest.
Within three years, she had won the first of her Coty Awards and organized Bonnie Cashin Designs.
Women won the right to vote when Ms. Clark was 16.
The incisiveness of her legal points won her admirers among members of the profession, including Robert Bork (who was once quoted as saying, ''In my opinion, there can't be too many Sarah Caudwell novels''), while the gleeful savagery of her satiric style made her a darling of the critics.
Her disguise was discovered and she was ejected, but ultimately won the war.
At the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne, Australia, Faggs ran on an all-Tennessee State 4x100 relay squad -- with Rudolph, Margaret Matthews and Isabelle Daniels -- that won a bronze medal.
Faggs won 11 national Amateur Athletic Union titles and was inducted into the National Track and Field Hall of Fame in Indianapolis in 1976.

        Lenore Kight Wingard, an American swimmer who won medals in the 1932 and 1936 Olympics, died Wednesday at a hospital in Cincinnati, where she lived.
Wingard won a silver medal in the 1932 Olympics in Los Angeles and a bronze at the 1936 Games in Berlin, both in the 400-meter freestyle.
And both Wingard and Madison, who won with a time of 5 minutes 28.5 seconds, broke the previous world record.
In 1933, she won all the national freestyle swimming championship meets from 100 meters to 1,500 meters.
Wingard won 20 national freestyle championships, and she held 21 American records and 7 world records in the freestyle.
''
        She won the Caldecott Medal for illustration twice, first in 1958 for a version of Chaucer's ''Chanticleer and the Fox'' in full color in the scratchboard technique she had been using for roughly 20 years.
Miss Cooney received many honorary degrees and won numerous awards in addition to the Caldecotts, including the American Book Award for ''Miss Rumphius'' in 1983.
At 10 she performed with the Chicago Symphony and won a scholarship to the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia.
''
        Then there was the party she gave for Senator John F. Kennedy during the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, at which he won his party's nomination.
She won a scholarship to the Chicago Musical College when she was 5.
The group started a series of demonstrations at City Hall and elsewhere, and in 1962 won an increase in pensions equal to half the average monthly salary of a police officer, $347.
In 1968, after years of struggle, they won hospitalization insurance, the same as that given to city workers.
In 1941 Ms. Ingalls won the Yale Series of Younger Poets prize for ''The Metaphysical Sword,'' a collection that used classical, mythological, biblical and Oriental allusions.
By high school, she had won provincial prep titles in curling while also starring in badminton and volleyball.
The Caledonian Curling Club, with Schmirler as the skip, or captain, won the provincial title its first season together, 1990-91.
The women then won the Canadian and world titles in 1993, 1994 and 1997.
Schmirler was six months pregnant when she won the world title in 1996 and was on maternity leave from her job with a recreation center when the team went to the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano, Japan.
Schmirler's group won the 1998 gold medal by defeating Denmark in Nagano, the first Olympics to make curling an official medal sport.
'' (1972) and won the Caldecott Medal for the pictures that accompany the story of a boy who politely asks a king and queen for permission before bringing his animal friends along when he is asked to visit.
Her first published work, ''A Piece of Bread,'' the story of a Southern girl's encounter with a prison chain gang, won a Kenyon Review prize and was included among the 1945 ''O.

        Lila Kedrova, the Russian-born actress whose portrayals of an aging French prostitute in screen and stage versions of ''Zorba the Greek'' won her an Academy Award and a Tony, died on Feb. 16 in Sault Ste.
Although she appeared in scores of films and plays in England, Canada and on the Continent that won her accolades ranging from a French Cesar for the film ''Razzia sur la Chnouf'' (1955), the Evening Standard Award in London for her stage role in ''The Cherry Orchard'' in 1969, a Genie Award (Canada's equivalent of the Oscar) for ''Eliza's Horoscope'' (1970) and a Golden Mask at Taormina in Sicily for the film ''Tell Me a Riddle'' (1980), Ms. Kedrova was best known her for portrayal of Madame Hortense in ''Zorba.
''
        In the film and Broadway musical adaptations of the 1946 Nikos Kazantzakis novel ''Zorba, the Greek,'' which starred Anthony Quinn, Miss Kedrova won raves as the earthy Zorba's aging, dying mistress.
''
        The role that won Miss Kedrova her Oscar as best supporting actress and her Tony for best featured actress in a musical was first offered by the film's Greek director, Michael Cacoyannis, to Simone Signoret.
Basil E. Frankweiler'' won the Newbery Medal the next year, while ''Jennifer, Hecate, Macbeth, William McKinley, and Me, Elizabeth'' was named a Newbery Honor book.
Thirty years and 15 books later, ''The View From Saturday'' also won a Newbery Medal for Ms. Konigsburg.
She edited two Caldecott Medal books, ''May I Bring a Friend?,'' by Beatrice Schenk de Regniers, illustrated by Beni Montresor, and ''A Story, a Story,'' by Gail E. Haley, as well as Ursula K. LeGuin's ''Farthest Shore,'' which won a National Book Award.
Ms. Karl's books also won eight Edgar Awards.
At 16 she won a scholarship to the Architectural Association, but was too young to accept it and instead attended North London Collegiate School for a year.
''
        Among the art directors she trained were John Box, Terence Marsh and Roy Walker, all of whom won Academy Awards.
Max F. Perutz, the British biochemist who won the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1962, wrote that the discovery by the Benesches in 1966 ''opened a new era'' of knowledge about the respiratory system.
She may be best remembered for ''Key Largo,'' for which she won the Oscar for best supporting actress playing the part of Gaye Dawn, a has-been cabaret singer who, in one emotionally charged scene, is forced by her sadistic lover to sing ''Moanin' Low'' in return for a drink.
' ''
        On television, she won an Emmy award in an acclaimed 1956 revival of ''Dodsworth,'' with Fredric March in the title role.
Most were action-adventure pictures dominated by the leading men, but she won wide praise for playing several hard-bitten newspaper reporters.
The book won the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1998, defeating works by authors Philip Roth and Don DeLillo.
She won England's  Booker Prize for ''Offshore'' in 1979.
She won the $20,000 prize ''by singing well and digging into some of the best aspects of black entertainment culture, the parts that make audience members and performers join in the same experience.
''
        In 1957 she made her Broadway debut in ''Miss Isobel,'' and two years later won an Obie award for her role as Madame Irma in the Off Broadway premiere of ''The Balcony'' by Genet.
When she played Mrs. Pynchon, the publisher of The Los Angeles Tribune on ''Lou Grant,'' the role became a keystone of her career; for it she won four Emmy awards.
I remember so well when she presented us with our American League championship rings after we won in 1946.
In 1991, she won the university's Distinguished Teaching Award, the first African-American to do so.
Hal Prieste, 103, who won a diving bronze medal for the United States in 1920, is listed as the oldest living American Olympian.
Aileen Riggin Soule, now 94, won the gold medal in springboard diving, and Ethelda Bleibtrey captured three golds in swimming to lead an American women's sweep.
''
        In 1981 she won an Emmy Award for a television documentary about survivors, ''Forever Yesterday,'' filmed for WNEW-TV in New York.
When she went into business for herself in 1947, she won Tucker as a client, and later James King, Arlene Saunders, Maria Stader, Benita Valente, and other singers and instrumentalists.
The team won scores of national and world championships, and its members encouraged Reilly to attend college, pointing her on a career that made her a well-known coach and athletic administrator.
She was 87 and lived in Palm Springs, Calif.
        Miss Young, who won an Oscar as best actress for her performance in ''The Farmer's Daughter'' in 1947, later became a favorite of television viewers as the glowing star who twirled onto the stage in a designer gown each week to introduce an uplifting drama on ''The Loretta Young Show.
She won the first of three Emmy Awards in 1953, which made her the first actress to win both an Oscar and an Emmy.
Mr. Louis won an Oscar of his own in 1956 for his designs for ''The Solid Gold Cadillac.

        Mary K. Wells, who acted in films, theater, television and radio and was part of a writing team that won two daytime Emmy Awards, died on Monday.
'' She was part of the teams that won Emmys for outstanding drama series writing for the 1984-85 and 1987-88 season.
''
        Sister Isolina won the Medal of Freedom, the highest honor the government can give a civilian, for establishing charitable centers in New York City and Appalachia, in addition to Puerto Rico.
She won a Rockefeller Public Service Award in 1980 for her work in revitalizing communities and neighborhoods and organizing local groups to serve the unemployed, underskilled, delinquent, sick and handicapped.
She also wrote ''Many Deadly Returns,'' which was published in 1970 and won the Edgar Allan Poe Special Award from the Mystery Writers of America, as well as ''Angel Death'' (1980), ''Black Girl, White Girl'' (1991) and ''Twice in a Blue Moon'' (1993).

        Angele Albrecht, a widely known ballerina who won acclaim with Maurice Bejart's Brussels-based ballet company, died on Aug. 1 in a hospital in Munich.
Her work won Emmy awards for two HBO television films: ''Citizen Cohn,'' about Roy Cohn, in 1993, and ''Truman'' in 1996.
''Sorry, Wrong Number'' also won an Edgar from the Mystery Writers of America, inspired two operas and was remade for cable television in 1989 with Loni Anderson.
In 1996, Dr. Wicks won a seat on the local school board.

        Beah Richards, whose distinguished career as an actress on stage, screen and television over 50 years was capped this month when she won an Emmy as a guest actor on ''The Practice,'' died on Thursday in Vicksburg, Miss.
She won an Emmy in 1988 for a guest appearance on ''Frank's Place'' and was in ''Roots: the Next Generation'' and ''The Bill Cosby Show.
In 1972, a special issue on Scandinavian design that she had published with an accompanying exhibition that traveled the country won her the insignia of a knight, first class, in the Finnish Order of the Lion.
Mr. Geldof won.
Along the way, it won a Pulitzer Prize for public service for a 15-part series on the powerful Teamsters union in Alaska.
She won an Emmy in 1993 for a young people's anti-smoking program, ''Know the Facts: Keep Your Power,'' and wrote and produced a traveling school program for the American Heart Association.
Along the way, it won a Pulitzer Prize for public service for a 15-part series on the powerful Teamsters union in Alaska.
They won, and the album they later recorded, ''The Newest Sound Around'' (later reissued on CD as ''The Legendary Duets''), has remained a cult favorite.
Her son, Anura, 51, who lives  next to his mother's home in the family compound, went over to the family's despised rival, the United National Party, after his sister, now 55, won the right to succeed their mother.
In 1953 she auditioned for the Cole Porter musical ''Can-Can,'' and won a part as a featured dancer in the show, which was written and directed by Abe Burrows and had choreography by Michael Kidd.
And in the dances created for her by Fosse, she did everything from a tango to a ragtime strut, from Chaplinesque comedy to a brassy music-hall routine.She won another Tony Award, her fourth.
When it opened in 1975, ''Chicago'' won applause for its three leads, Ms. Verdon, Chita Rivera and Jerry Orbach.
She won an O. Henry Award in 1941 for her first published short story, ''The Visit.
''
        Later, working with her longtime mentor, the director and producer Hal Prince, Ms. Mitchell also helped  produce ''Cabaret,'' ''Company'' and ''A Little Night Music,'' each of which won the Tony Award for best musical.
In 1931, she won the part of Marge on the WGN radio comedy ''Easy Aces.
''Annie Allen'' won Poetry magazine's Eunice Tietjens Memorial Prize in 1949 and the following year, it was awarded the Pulitzer Prize; Ms. Brooks became the first black writer to receive the prize since it was established in 1917.
In 1944, she won her first United States Women's Chess Championship.
Mrs. Gresser studied classics as an undergraduate at Radcliffe College and won a fellowship for classical studies at the American School of Classical Studies in Athens.
After she won two local beauty pageants and studied drama for two years at Brigham Young University, her parents drove her to Hollywood to study with Maria Ouspenskaya, the famed acting instructor.
That role spurred Kubrick to cast her as an unfaithful wife in ''The Killing,'' for which she won the best supporting actress award from Look.
Another novel for young people, ''A Really Weird Summer,'' won an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America.
Even though she won the cases, the experience soured her on the law.
After being rejected as a candidate to take the sergeant's qualification test, Policewoman Shpritzer sued the city, won the court battle and then became 1 of 2 of the 127 policewomen who took the test to pass it.
''Annie Allen'' won Poetry magazine's Eunice Tietjens Memorial Prize in 1949 and the following year was awarded the Pulitzer Prize; Ms. Brooks became the first black writer to receive the prize since it was established in 1917.
