It won a Mystery Writers of America award.
That same year Ms. Brooks's magazine work won an award from the International Home Furnishing Center.
It won a Mystery Writers of America award.
She won Guggenheim and Ford Foundation grants to study in Iran and analyze housing in India.
Audiences were enchanted by her combination of grace, elegance and high spirits, and she won an Academy Award as best actress.
The same year she won her Oscar, she won a Tony for her performance in the play "Ondine.
The same year she won her Oscar, she won a Tony for her performance in the play "Ondine.
The film won several Oscar nominations, but Miss Hepburn was not nominated.
She won an Oscar nomination for the title role of a woman questioning her vocation in "A Nun's Story' (1959).
And she won her fifth Oscar nomination for her role as a blind woman terrorized in her own home in "Wait Until Dark" (1967).
The Sprite in Designer Clothing
        Audrey Hepburn made her American stage and screen debuts in 1951, and two years later her gamin haircut, sylphlike shape and tomboyish but elegant demeanor in "Roman Holiday" made her a star and won her an Oscar.
Her opera performances won praise for her beauty, acting ability and graceful movements, as well as for her voice.
As a youngster she took lessons in music, ballet and acting and at the age of 10 won a WQXR-radio piano competition.
Maturing rapidly in her new medium, she won an enviable array of praise.
Finally Won Respect
        When Mr. Trudeau named her to the largely ceremonial but highly respected position of Governor General, she was also the first woman in that post, where she served until 1990.

        Laura Dubman Fratti, a child prodigy whose expertise as a classical pianist won her critical acclaim in the 1930's and 40's in San Francisco, New York and Paris, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
She won a Guggenheim fellowship to study in Paris.
Lillian won the role of a dancer, a part that Gladys had hoped for, in Sarah Bernhardt's 1905 engagement on Broadway.
" The show, which ran for 871 performances, was among the season's surprise hits and won warm critical notices for its star, whose return to show business at the age of 60 was hailed one of the most remarkable show business comebacks in years.
From 1983 to 1987 she served as the founding president of the National Writers Union, which won contracts for freelance writers at several national magazines.
Many Translations
        Her resulting books, which won several prizes, have appeared in a dozen languages, and some continue to be reprinted.
Two were runners-up for the Maybery Award, the highest honor for children's books, and she won other awards and citations.
"
        Miss Hayes won an Academy Award for best actress for her first major film role, in "The Sin of Madelon Claudet" (1931).
In 1971 she won a second Oscar, as best supporting actress, for "Airport.
" She also won praise for her acting in Anita Loos's robustly commercial "Happy Birthday" (1946), and, after appearing in Josh Logan's disappointing "Wisteria Trees" (1950), she came back strong in Mary Chase's farce "Mrs. McThing" (1952) and also won praise for her part in the revival of Thornton Wilder's "Skin of Our Teeth" that opened at the ANTA Theater (now the Virginia) in 1955.
" She also won praise for her acting in Anita Loos's robustly commercial "Happy Birthday" (1946), and, after appearing in Josh Logan's disappointing "Wisteria Trees" (1950), she came back strong in Mary Chase's farce "Mrs. McThing" (1952) and also won praise for her part in the revival of Thornton Wilder's "Skin of Our Teeth" that opened at the ANTA Theater (now the Virginia) in 1955.
Mrs. Fox was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Marymount College in Tarrytown, N.Y. She was active in the Crescent Club in Huntington, L.I., where she once won the club championships in golf and tennis in the same year.
In the 1981 film "Atlantic City," she won high marks for her portrayal of the reclusive, aging former beauty queen and sometime paramour of the small-time mobster played by Burt Lancaster.

        Eleanor Sanger, a television producer who won several Emmy awards for her work on Olympics broadcasts for ABC Sports, died yesterday at her home in West Tisbury, Mass.
Correction:  March 9, 1993, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about Eleanor Sanger, a television producer who won Emmy awards for sports broadcasts, misidentified one of her residences.
She won favorable notices in 1930 on Broadway as Grusinskaya, the dancer, in "Grand Hotel.
Although she won first prize in a voice contest in New York in 1925 and made an appearance that year with the New York Philharmonic at Lewisohn Stadium, she was unable to find operatic engagements, and within a few years her career came to a standstill.
In 1925, Mr. Boghetti entered his pupil in a New York Philharmonic voice competition, in which she competed with 300 singers and won first prize.
Her work won awards, fellowships and grants.
During her tenure it won an award from Editor and Publisher magazine for exposing squalid conditions at a reform school for boys and at the state mental hospital in Waterbury.
" In 1979, she won critical praise for her performance as Lena Younger in a revival of "Raisin in the Sun" at the Henry Street Settlement.
Ms. Hemingway won the Royal Society of Literature's Winifred Holtby Prize for her first novel, "The Bridge," which was published in Britain in 1986 and won critical praise there and in the United States.
Ms. Hemingway won the Royal Society of Literature's Winifred Holtby Prize for her first novel, "The Bridge," which was published in Britain in 1986 and won critical praise there and in the United States.
"
        In 1958, her costumes for "The First Gentleman" won a Tony Award.
Her best-known book, "Diderot and Sterne" (Columbia University Press, 1955) won the Clarke F. Ansley Award by Columbia and was reprinted in 1973 by Farrar, Strauss & Giroux.
In 1979 she won an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America, of which she was a founding member, for her critical biography "Erle Stanley Gardner: The Case of the Real Perry Mason" (1978).
A Contest Winner
        A brief period working for the Institute of Pacific Relations in New York ended when she won a short-story contest sponsored by British Vogue.
Both won parts in the play that night, and the young Nixon proposed to her a few hours later.

        Alexis Smith, a Hollywood actress of the 1940's and 50's who later won a Tony Award as a star of the Broadway musical "Follies," died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles.
"
        She also won great acclaim for her performances of Bach, Handel and Haydn, and although she did not eschew the use of vibrato, as other early-music singers did, she was considered a supremely stylish interpreter of that repertory.
She apparently progressed quickly; two years later, when she was teaching first grade in Los Angeles, she won first prize in the I. Victor Fuchs Competition.
Many of her recordings won international awards, including the Grand Prix du Disque, the Edison Prize and the Deutscher Schallplattenpreis.
Wise won the John V. Lindsay prize from the Citizens' Committee for New York City earlier this year.
" Portrayed Anne Frank's Mother
        She is best known in this country for her portrayal of Edith Frank in the Broadway production of "The Diary of Anne Frank," which won the Pulitzer Prize and Critics Circle Award in 1956.
Ms. Huber also won praise for her performance in George Stevens's 1959 film version of the Anne Frank story.
She studied at the Juilliard School and won a scholarship for studies in Vienna.
"
        She won the distinguished service award of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and was named to its hall of fame.
It also won missile and space contracts.
Her last Broadway show was "Jerome Robbins's Broadway," a 1989 musical that won six Tonys.
She won two Donaldson Awards and a Tony.
"
        Her sumptuous array of vibrant Thai silk costumes for "The King and I" in 1951 created a sensation in the world of high fashion and interior decoration, and she won her Tony for her designs.
" In 1956, she won another for her work on Samuel Goldwyn's 1956 film of "The King and I.
Mrs. Nevil won the state women's amateur tournament four times in five years -- 1958, 1959, 1960 and 1962.
Miss Ballard won the first Tony Award for costume design, in 1947, for her work on several productions in that season: "Happy Birthday," "Another Part of the Forest," "Street Scene," "John Loves Mary" and "The Chocolate Soldier.
" She won another Tony in 1962 for "The Gay Life.
"
        In 1945, she won a Donaldson Award, a prestigious theatrical prize that is no longer given, for the nostalgic costumes she designed for "I Remember Mama.

        Reva Clamage Shwayder, an artist who was the subject of a documentary film that won an Academy Award, died at her home in Franklin, Mich., on Thursday.
Mr. Gothelf's daughter, Sue Marx, joined Pamela Conn in directing "Young at Heart," which was shown at the New York Film Festival and won the Academy Award in the short subject category in 1988.

        Reva Clamage Shwayder, an artist who was the subject of a documentary film that won an Academy Award, died Thursday at her home in Franklin, Mich. She was 91.
The film was shown at the New York Film Festival and won the Academy Award in the short subject category in 1988.
Miss Allen, who specialized in light comedy, won critical praise as a neat, highly skilled performer who radiated intelligence.
After applying to the Theater Guild for work as an understudy, she immediately won roles in touring productions of "Peer Gynt," "The Devil's Disciple" and "He Who Gets Slapped.
A small woman with large eyes, she won critical praise for making "the conscience of the younger generation articulate" when she performed in 1947 in the J.
In 1980 she published "The Watcher," which won the Edgar Allan Poe Award from the Mystery Writers of America for the best first novel by a mystery writer.
She also sued her insurance company and won the right to medical benefits up to $1 million.

        Bee Schenken, a leading contract bridge player who won seven national titles, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
She also won the national mixed pairs title in 1957.

        Heather Farr, the professional golfer whose four-and-a-half-year battle with cancer won her scores of admirers from inside and outside the golf world, died Saturday night in Scottsdale, Ariz. She was 28.
At 13, she won the Arizona State Amateur.
Her indefatigable nature and relentlessly upbeat attitude quickly won Farr many friends on the very competitive L.P.G.A.
She won $75,821 and finished tied for third at the Mazda Classic.
At the opening of "A Raisin in the Sun," by Lorraine Hansberry, in 1959 at the Ethel Barrymore Theater, Miss McNeil won praise for her heroic performance as the matriarch in a black family on the South Side of Chicago.
" Scat With Ellington
        She first won prominence in 1927, for her wordless, growling obbligato in "Creole Love Call" with the Duke Ellington Orchestra.
But she won critical praise with her sensitive portrayal of a wronged servant in her next film, "We Live Again" (1934).
" Their breezy films, peppered with outlandish clues and outrageous characters, were among the most enduring of Hollywood's larger-than-life big-studio comedies that won millions of new fans over the decades.
The performance won her the Brussels World Film Festival prize for the best performance by an actress.
"
        Miss Loy won her only Oscar, an honorary one, in 1991, more than six decades after she began her film career.
" Their breezy films, peppered with outlandish clues and outrageous characters, were among the most enduring of Hollywood's larger-than-life big-studio comedies that won millions of new fans over the decades.
The performance won her the Brussels World Film Festival prize for the best performance by an actress.
"
        Miss Loy won her only Oscar, an honorary one, in 1991, more than six decades after she began her film career.
At 18, Mr. Margolin won her first professional role as the lead in "Daughter of Silence" on Broadway.
At 18, Ms. Margolin won her first professional role as the lead in "Daughter of Silence" on Broadway.

        Patricia Simon, a freelance writer who collaborated on a 1972 cookbook, "Simca's Cuisine," that won high praise from food critics, died on Friday at her home in Philadelphia.
In the early 30's, while coaching singers on Broadway, Miss Ronell wrote the hits "Baby's Birthday Party," "Rain on the Roof" and "Willow, Weep for Me," which won her a job with Walt Disney Studios.
