Mrs. Cahn converted to Judaism and, at her husband's urging, applied for and won a scholarship to Yale Law School.
(The Congressman sat out the 90th Congress and subsequently won a special election and joined the 91st Congress in 1969.
After the war she undertook a thorough revision of the city's sanitary code and expanded a public health laboratory that had already won acclaim in the field.
She attended Bay Ridge High School in Brooklyn and won a Tiffany Foundation Scholarship to Pratt Institute.
In 1954 she received the Marian Anderson Award, and a year later won an Opportunity Fellowship from the John Hay Whitney Foundation to study in Europe.

        Dr. Ruth Landes, an anthropologist who won critical acclaim for her studies of black Brazilians, Indians in North Dakota and Hispanic-Americans in the American Southwest, died on Feb. 11 at her home in Hamilton, Ontario.
Ms. Hobhouse first won notice for a 1976 biography of Gertrude Stein, "Everybody Who Was Anybody.
In 1943 she won the Young Poet's Prize of Poetry magazine, and her poems later appeared in The New Yorker.
Despite the reputation of English children's clothes as the best in the world, her designs won accolades from critics at a London fashion show in 1962.
A senior lecturer since 1984, she won the Provost's Award for distinguished teaching in 1988.
In December she won the American Historical Association's Award for Scholarly Distinction.
Study of Islanders
        The result of her 18-month inquiry was "The People of Alor," a social and psychological study published in 1944 that won acclaim for its thoroughness and lucidity.
Mrs. Bishopric was an active tennis player into her 70's, and won several amateur tournaments.
Among the composers who wrote scores for Miss Graham were Samuel Barber, William Schuman, Gian Carlo Menotti and Aaron Copland, whose score for her 1944 classic, "Appalachian Spring," won the Pulitzer Prize.

        Hazel Brill Jackson, a prize-winning sculptor whose bronzes won critical praise, died on Friday at her home in the Town of Newburgh, N.Y. Miss Jackson, who remained active in her art well past her 90th birthday, was 96 years old.
Although her busts of people received praise, she won the most recognition for animal sculptures.
She received the Altman Prize in 1945 and in 1949 won the Ellen P. Speyer Memorial Prize for a piece titled "Indian Antelope.
In 1984, she won Britain's best-actress award for her performance in Alan Bennett's television film "An Englishman Abroad," which was based on her own encounter with the British spy Guy Burgess in Moscow in 1958 while she was touring with the Old Vic in "Hamlet.

        Friedelind Wagner, a granddaughter of the composer Richard Wagner who won fame for her courageous opposition to Nazism, died early yesterday evening at the Community Hospital in Herdecke, Germany, in the Ruhr.
She won awards from the Chicago Council on Foreign Affairs and the National Association of Black Journalists.
She later won a home-town talent contest for which the prize was a one-week appearance with Lionel Hampton's band.
When she was in her mid-70's Dame Peggy won her greatest international acclaim from roles involving two visits to India.
"
        She won a 1984 Academy Award as best supporting actress for the film; the New York Film Critics Circle voted her best actress.
She had previously won a string of awards as the finest actress on the British stage, and in April she won a special Laurence Olivier Award, London's major theatrical prize, for lifetime achievement in the theater.
She had previously won a string of awards as the finest actress on the British stage, and in April she won a special Laurence Olivier Award, London's major theatrical prize, for lifetime achievement in the theater.
She won a contract with Columbia Pictures, returned to Hollywood and her comic talents blossomed in "The Whole Town's Talking," a 1935 gangster yarn of mistaken identity.
"
        The actress also won plaudits for roles in such films as "Diamond Jim," "The Plainsman," "History Is Made at Night," "Only Angels Have Wings," "Arizona" and later, in 1953, in "Shane," about the disturbing effect of a gunfighter (Alan Ladd) on a frontier family, with Miss Arthur playing a gentle and loyal wife and mother.
Her more recent novels, including "Charley Skedaddle" (1987), which won the Scott O'Dell Award for Historical Fiction, dealt with the Civil War.
She was also the secretary and a board member of the Mystery Writers of America, and won the group's 1987 Ellery Queen Award for Excellence.
"
        Ms. Remick, who was born in Quincy, Mass., studied dance as a child and won her first acting job at age 16 with a summer-stock company on nearby Cape Cod.

        Helen Meany Gravis, who won the gold medal in women's 3-meter springboard diving at the 1928 Olympic Games in Amsterdam, died Sunday at her home in Old Greenwich, Conn. She was 86 years old.
Helen Meany won her first national Amateur Athletic Association diving championship as a 15-year-old in 1920 and qualified for the Olympics that year in Antwerp, Belgium.
She won no medals there, nor at the 1924 Games in Paris.
She won 17 national championship diving medals from 1920 through 1928 and was named to the International Swimming Hall of Fame in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in 1971.
She translated several other works of fiction and nonfiction from French into English, including Michael Bernanos's 1968 novel, "The Other Side of the Mountain," which won her the Scott Moncrieff Award for distinguished translation.

        Ruth F. Corcoran, who became the first woman to be elected to a Suffolk County town board when she won a seat as a councilwoman in Huntington, L.I., in 1961, died on Friday at the Hilaire Farms Nursing Home in Huntington.

        Marietta Tree, a daughter of privilege who won plaudits as a representative to the United Nations in the 1960's and as a tireless worker for New York City causes, died yesterday at New York Hospital.
The couple had a daughter, Frances FitzGerald, an author whose nonfiction best-seller "Fire in the Lake,"
        about the Vietnam War, won a Pulitzer Prize in 1973.
In 1990, she won praise for her portrayal of a blues singer in "Ground People," an Off Broadway play about a black minstrel troupe in the 1920's.
Ms. Dewhurst was closely identified with the works of Eugene O'Neill, and in 1974 won a Tony Award for her portrayal of Josie Hogan in the acclaimed revival of O'Neill's "Moon for the Misbegotten.
Her first Broadway role with lines came in a brief 1960 production of Albert Camus's "Caligula," but the next year she won her first Tony Award, as best featured actress, for her portrayal of a suddenly widowed young mother in Tad Mosel's "All the Way Home," an adaptation of James Agee's novel "A Death in the Family.
" Her other Off Broadway plays include Athol Fugard's "Hello and Goodbye," in which she co-starred with Martin Sheen in 1969 and won a Drama Desk Award.
She was nominated for a Tony in 1973 for her performance as Christine in O'Neill's "Mourning Becomes Electra," in which she was hailed as one of the United States' pre-eminent tragic actresses, and in 1974 won a Tony Award for her portrayal of Josie Hogan in the acclaimed revival of O'Neill's "Moon for the Misbegotten.
Ms. Dewhurst's first major Broadway role came in a brief 1960 production of Albert Camus's "Caligula," but the next year she won her first Tony Award, as best featured actress, for her portrayal of a suddenly widowed young mother in Tad Mosel's "All the Way Home," an adaptation of James Agee's novel "A Death in the Family.
"
        Her television appearances included three seasons playing Candice Bergen's mother on "Murphy Brown," for which she won an Emmy Award in 1989.
Academic and Medical Achievements
        She graduated at the top of her high school class and won a scholarship to Goucher College in Maryland.
She then won a scholarshipto Yale University, where she earned a Ph.D.
In the New York premiere of "The Maids" by Genet, she won an Obie Award as best Off Broadway actress in 1956.
Ms. Bovasso also won Drama Desk and Outer Critics Circle awards in 1972 as best actress for her performance in "The Screens" by Genet.
3 Obies in the Same Year
        In 1970, she won three Obies, as best playwright, director and actress, for "Gloria and Esperanza," which opened at Cafe La Mama.
A Harvard freshman named Norman Mailer won a Story college-writing prize for a piece entitled "The Greatest Thing in the World.
In 1979, she produced and narrated the course as a 90-minute PBS program, "Musical Comedy Tonight," which won a Peabody Award.
Not since 1966, when Nelly Sachs shared the award with Shmuel Yosef Agnon of Israel, has a woman won the literature prize.
She won several Italian literary prizes and gained international recognition with the publication of "Voices in the Evening," a novel (1961), and an autobiography, "Family Sayings" (1963).
"
        Dame Peggy won an Oscar for her role in Sir David Lean's "Passage to India" and acclaim for her role in the series "The Jewel in the Crown," seen on American public television in 1984 and 1985.

        Gene Tierney, the elegant actress whose beauty bewitched a tough detective in the 1944 film "Laura" and whose portrayal two years later of a diabolically selfish woman in "Leave Her to Heaven" won her an Academy Award nomination, died Wednesday night at her home in Houston.
"
        With her blue-green eyes, brown hair, prominent cheekbones and what many young men of the 1940's regarded as the most appealing overbite of the day (Miss Tierney said her movie contract stipulated that her slightly protruding front teeth were never to be fixed) she won plaudits for her patrician look but some criticism for her acting.

        Charlotte Moorman, the cellist, avant-gardist and performance artist who won notoriety for her arrest by the New York City police in 1967 for playing the cello nude from the waist up, died yesterday in Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
There she produced "The Art of Film," a series with the critic Stanley Kauffman as host, for which Ms. Zornow won an Emmy Award in 1964.
Her scientific photographs won her new acclaim both before and after the textbook "Health" was published in 1960.
