In 1928 Ms. Marcus won the Walter H. Naumburg Foundation Award and made her debut at Town Hall.
She won national fame in the 1940's, singing with the popular flamenco artist Manolo Caracol, and landed her first film contract at 17.
She was narrator of "The Panama Deception," a documentary about the American invasion of Panama, which won an Academy Award in 1993.
Her television movies often won critical praise.
In 1952, she won first prize at the Chicago International Watercolor Show.
"
        In four terms in the House, from 1941 to 1949, then four in the Senate through 1975, Mrs. Smith won friends and earned foes across a wide political spectrum.
She won many fashion awards, including election to the British Fashion Awards Hall of Fame last year, and was named a Commander of the British Empire in 1984.

        Teresa Teng, a singer from Taiwan whose love songs won her spectacular fame across East Asia, died suddenly on a holiday in Thailand on Monday.
" Although she never had the full recognition attained by many of her peers, and never won a Pulitzer Prize or a National Book Award, her work generally received favorable reviews and she had a loyal readership.
Ms. Blackburn won praise for her performance as Zeena, the sickly wife in a television production of "Ethan Frome" in 1960.
" As part of the writing team for the soap opera "All My Children," she won Emmy Awards in 1985 and 1988.
She was her father's favorite; at 10 she read the Congressional Record in his office, and when he won a seat in the Texas Legislature in 1919 she went with him to Austin.
That performance and her next one, as a demented murderer in "They Drive by Night," won her a long-term contract at Warner Brothers.
"
        In 1954, before she was even 30, she burst onto the literary scene when her novel "Hackenfeller's Ape," about an ape at the London Zoo and its increasingly close relationship to the professor observing its mating habits, won the Cheltenham Literary Festival First Prize for a first novel.

        Eileen Chang, a popular novelist and short story writer whose finely honed psychological studies and precise language won her acclaim as a giant of modern Chinese literature, was found dead on Friday in the Los Angeles apartment where she had lived as a virtual recluse.
Had it not been for the political division between the Nationalist and Communist Chinese, he said, she would have almost certainly won a Nobel Prize.
She won her Emmy in 1978 for an interview program on the eve of a local election.
She won the commission for it in a nationwide competition, and President Harry S. Truman spoke at the unveiling in September 1945 at the Recorder of Deeds Building in Washington.
In 1985 she won an Obie for her World War II uniforms for Charles Fuller's drama "A Soldier's Play.
" Ms. Graves won.
Mrs. Fisher may not have won her immediate point before the Supreme Court, but the arguments raised by her lawyer, Thurgood Marshall, who had denounced the state action as a sham, had a powerful impact on the court as it picked its way  toward the landmark 1954 decision overturning the separate-but-equal doctrine.
And Mrs. Fisher's campaign, which had won wide backing from the state's college teachers and students, had changed the political climate in Oklahoma.
Mrs. Fisher was admitted to the law school in June 1949, but under such harsh conditions that any of her fellow students who had not already rallied to her cause were soon won over.
When she won in 1921, she was only 16 years old, and by some accounts, only 15.
The book was translated into 23 languages, sold 1.3 million copies, won a French literary prize -- the Prix Goncourt -- and was made into the film "Madame Rosa.
Her early starring roles in American movies included parts in "Adventures of  Don Juan" (1948), with Errol Flynn; "No Sad Songs for Me" (1950), with Margaret  Sullavan, and "Four in a Jeep" (1951), with Ralph Meeker, for which she won the  "Best Actress of the Year" International Film Award.
She won a Best Actress Award at the Berlin Film Festival for her 1962 performance in "No Exit" and the Special Award at the Venice Film Festival for the 1960 movie "Weddings and Babies.
"
        Her 1955 Broadway debut in the title role of "Anastasia," a drama about a woman claiming to be the missing daughter of Czar Nicholas 2d, won her immediate acclaim from critics and an award from the Drama League.
" (Little Brown, 1980), a photo-documentary of a class in baby care taught at a boys' school in New York won an American Book Award in 1981 for children's hardcover non-fiction.
As a composer, she won several awards during her student years, and later wrote mainly for the viola.
She met her husband, Felix Slatkin, a conductor and violinist and the concertmaster of the 20th Century-Fox studio orchestra, at a young artists' competition in the Hollywood Bowl; Mr. Slatkin won.
This compilation of articles, written for Modern Music by some of its most celebrated contributors and held together by Mrs. Daniel's commentary, won the ASCAP Deems  Taylor Award for distinguished music criticism in 1984.
She wrote her first poems when she was 6, joined the Authors League at 11, published her first poem at Indiana University when she was 19, won first prize in a literary  contest at Butler University when she was 20 and published her first book of poems, "Prismatic Ground," at 28, in 1937, a year after receiving a master's in  Elizabethan and Jacobean literature from the University of Chicago.
"
        Miss Young, who taught at an Indianapolis high school and at the University of Iowa after Chicago, moved to New York in 1943 and burst on the literary scene two years later with the simultaneous publication of "Moderate Fable," which won the best poetry award from the National Academy of Arts and Letters, and "Angel in the Forest," a highly acclaimed account of successive utopian communities at New Harmony, Ind.
"
        In 1933, Miss Deane and her partner Timothy Palmer won the British and world  ballroom championships.
Mrs. Blackston turned her rage over the indignities of a belittling system into a grass-roots movement that won widespread changes and helped make the plight of welfare mothers a feminist issue.
Four years later she won a scholarship to the Berklee School of Music in Boston, where she remained until her graduation in 1992.

        Dorothy Jeakins, who won three Academy Awards for costume design while collaborating with directors like John Huston and Victor Fleming and stars like  Ingrid Bergman and Ava Gardner, died on Nov. 21 at a nursing home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 81 and lived in Montecito, Calif.
)
        Besides her Academy Award for the 1948 release "Joan of Arc," with Bergman and Jose Ferrer, Ms. Jeakins won Oscars for DeMille's "Samson and Delilah" (1948), with Victor Mature and Hedy Lamarr, and Huston's "Night of the Iguana,"  (1964), with Richard Burton, Gardner and Deborah Kerr.
"
        Ms. Jeakins grew up in Los Angeles and won a scholarship to the Otis Art Institute.
In addition to a series of hits by the Shirelles, among them "Dedicated to the One I Love," "Tonight's the Night," and Mrs. Greenberg's own composition, "Soldier Boy," her Scepter label produced such 1960's standards as "Louie, Louie," by the Kingsmen; "Twist and Shout," by the Isley Brothers, and "Walk on  By," by Dionne Warwick, not to mention "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head," the  Burt Bacharach-Hal David song, sung by B. J. Thomas on the soundtrack of "Butch  Cassidy and the Sundance Kid," which won an Academy Award in 1969.
After storming into Zanuck's office and threatening to quit, she won a lead role in the musical "Greenwich Village" (1944).
Ms. Blaine won the role of Adelaide by chance.
A hasty audition was arranged, and Ms. Blaine won the part.
"
        She received five nominations for Emmy Awards, and won for her work in the critically acclaimed "Gabriel's Fire," which ran on ABC from 1990-92.
Her biographies included "George Mason: Constitutionalist" (1938), "Captains From Devon: The Great Elizabethan Seafarers Who Won the World for England" and "Colonel Parke of Virginia: The Greatest Hector in Town" (1990).
" She won an Obie Award, and was a 1974 Tony nominee for her performance as Mattie Williams in "The River Niger.
Her performance won her a Tony Award.
She also won praise for her work in Clifford Odets's play "The Big Knife" (1949), and Wolcott Gibbs's "Season in the Sun" (1950).
Defeated in her first attempt in 1955, she won in 1957 and rose to become assistant majority leader in 1960 and 1961.
She won the Coty American Fashion Critics' Award in 1953 and was honored in 1970 with a retrospective exhibition at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
She won her first public tournament at age 11.
As a junior player, she captured three titles in the 1930's and at age 16 won the singles and doubles trophies at the United States Ladies Tennis Association National Indoors Tournament in 1933.
Over the next six seasons her teams compiled a 157-23 record, won three national championships and set a record of 51 consecutive victories, from 1974 to 1976.
After her 1949 appearance, a reviewer wrote, "Being a woman of taste, imagination and musical culture, she won the cordial applause of her audience.
She won nine other national titles in the Mixed Teams in 1949, 1950 and 1959; the Women's Teams in 1948, 1953, 1954, 1961 and 1967, and the Women's Pairs in 1960.
The killing of the star, who had won a Grammy music award last year and whose recording "Amor Prohibido" ("Forbidden Love") sold 400,000 copies in the United States and many more than that in Mexico, stunned her fans and prompted almost non-stop coverage on Spanish-language radio and television stations here, in Texas's major cities and all along the Mexican border.
Her "Selena Live" also won the Grammy last year for best Mexican-American album.
The former, about a first-generation American Jew who rejects his immigrant roots, won the Harper Prize Novel Award in 1946 and brought the author her first measure of fame as well as a $10,000 prize.
" Her 12 minutes onstage, singing a medley of four songs by Noel Coward, was a show-stopper that won her a Tony Award that year as best supporting actress.
While her graceful dancing was on display in her many musicals, Miss Rogers also won renown in dramatic roles including an aspiring actress in "Stage Door" (1937) and a prostitute's daughter in "Primrose Path" (1940).
"
        Her big break came when she was 22, when she and Mr. Astaire won supporting roles in "Flying Down to Rio.
In 1951, Miss Rogers won wide praise in a Broadway comedy, "Love and Let Love," although reviewers panned the play.
