
        Eileen Heckart, the actress with a smoky voice and toothsome smile who won an Oscar for ''Butterflies Are Free,'' three Emmys and a special lifetime achievement Tony, died on Monday at her home in Norwalk, Conn. She was 82.
''
        Her best-remembered film roles include the mother of Rocky Graziano in ''Somebody Up There Likes Me'' (1956) Marilyn Monroe's waitress friend in ''Bus Stop'' (also 1956) and the overbearing mother of the blind boy in ''Butterflies Are Free,'' for which she won the Academy Award as best supporting actress in 1972.
''
        The PBS productions ''Save Me a Place at Forest Lawn'' and ''The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds,'' both in 1966, won Ms. Heckart a host of television awards.
''
        During a decade of absence from the New York stage, she toured in national companies of Broadway hits, acted in movies and won roles in four separate television series that were picked up and then dropped.
'' Her performance as an alcoholic blues singer in ''Pete Kelly's Blues'' (1955) won her an Academy Award nomination as best supporting actress.
Many of the books she published won prizes, among them several Newbery medals as well as a Caldecott.
'' The 1973 film ''The Sting,'' which she produced with her husband at the time, Michael Phillips, and Tony Bill, won seven Academy Awards, including best picture.
She was the first woman to produce a film that won the best-picture Oscar.
Ms. Phillips grew up in Brooklyn; Great Neck, N.Y.; and Milwaukee and attended Mount Holyoke, where she won awards for creative writing.
They were divorced months after ''The Sting'' won its Oscars.
She won raves.
She won a National Book Award in 1975 for her novel ''M.
Once in Chungking, writing speeches for Madame Chiang Kai-shek, she won a reporting job with Liberty magazine.
''
        In 1951, she won the role of Jo in a new CBS soap opera, ''Search for Tomorrow,'' and played the long-suffering Joanne until 1986, when the show, which had moved to NBC, went off the air.
She also took some of her marmalade to her old high school and won a contract to supply the entire school.
Ms. Worth (whose first name was pronounced eye-REENY) won three Tony awards for her roles on Broadway, as best actress as Miss Alice in Mr. Albee's ''Tiny Alice'' in 1965 and as Alexandra del Lago in a revival of Tennessee Williams's ''Sweet Bird of Youth'' in 1976 and as best featured actress as Grandma Kurnitz in Neil Simon's ''Lost in Yonkers'' in 1991.
''
        Her other books included ''Italian Days'' (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1989), an impressionistic and literary travel book about Italy that won the American Book Award, and a novel, ''Foreign Bodies'' (Doubleday, 1984).
America won.
In 2000 she won a $140,000 Praemium Imperiale Award given by the Japan Art Association.
During her acting career, she won an Obie Award, a Drama Desk Award and a New York City People's Choice Award.

        Antonia Pantoja, an advocate for New Yorkers of Puerto Rican origin whose educational organization Aspira won a landmark lawsuit in the 70's that brought bilingual education to New York City public schools, died on Friday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan.
At first finding wartime factory work as a welder, she won a scholarship to Hunter College, graduating with a bachelor's in sociology in 1952.
From Bradford Girls Grammar School she won a scholarship to St. Hugh's College, Oxford, where, excluded from the student debating society, known as the Union, because it did not admit women, she threw herself into Labor Party politics to the neglect of everything else, graduating with a disappointing third-class degree.
''
        Her journalism won her many awards, including one for distinguished diplomatic reporting from Georgetown University's School of Foreign Affairs.
Her extensive reporting of the Polish Communists' attempt to liberalize their government that year won her an Overseas Press Club award for best interpretation of foreign affairs.
Later, she won a scholarship to the Northfield School for Girls in Massachusetts, now the coeducational Northfield-Mount Hermon School.
The book won the Newbery Medal in 1965.
She won the New York Women's Metropolitan Golf Championship eight times.
''
        Her journalism won her many awards, including one for distinguished diplomatic reporting from the Georgetown University School of Foreign Affairs.
Her extensive reporting of the Polish Communists' attempt to liberalize their government that year won her an Overseas Press Club award for best interpretation of foreign affairs.
She starred in the musical ''Carnival in Flanders,'' for which she won a Tony in 1954 for best musical actress.
''
        Ms. Gray's marriage to Andrew Crevolin, a California real estate developer and horse race owner whose horse ''Determine'' won the Kentucky Derby in 1954, ended in divorce.
The sisters won and for a time were heard seven nights a week, earning $20 each.
Her ''Out There'' column, in which she often wrote about the travails in life and love of a semifictional 30-something single woman named Alice K. -- ''not her real initial'' -- was one of the paper's most popular features and won her an Alternative Newsweekly Award in 1996.
When she was 17, she won first prize in a competition sponsored by Mu Phi Epsilon, a music honors organization, and was awarded a scholarship to the Juilliard School.
In 1972 she wrote, directed and produced ''98.5,'' about five artists at the 98 Greene Street Loft; it won an award at the Edinburgh Film Festival that year.
The sisters won and for a time were heard seven nights a week, earning $20 each.
In 1940, the story won her the Avery Hopwood Prize, awarded along with $1,000 for excellent writing by University of Michigan students.

        Emily Genauer, an art critic who championed 20th-century painting and sculpture over the course of a four-decade newspaper career and won a Pulitzer Prize for criticism, died on Friday after a long illness.
In 1974 she won the Pulitzer Prize for distinguished art criticism.

        Emily Genauer, an art critic who championed 20th-century painting and sculpture over the course of a four-decade newspaper career and won a Pulitzer Prize for criticism, died on Friday after a long illness.
In 1974 she won the Pulitzer Prize for distinguished art criticism.
By the time the battle ended in 1987, Ms. Lipton had won what she and other advocates considered a major civil rights battle.

        Nancy Chaffee Whitaker, a leading tennis player in the 1950's who won three consecutive national indoor championships, died Sunday in Coronado, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Indian Wells, Calif.
In 1926, Ms. Pamela won the title of Miss St. Louis.
For ''Career Girls,'' she won an Evening Standard award as best actress.
In Danis Tanovic's ''No Man's Land,'' which won an Academy Award this year as best foreign film, she played a cold, ambitious battlefield journalist.
'' Ms. Slaiman won the first Helen Hayes Award for her costume design for ''Man and Superman'' in 1985 and was nominated for seven more Hayes awards before her retirement in 1993.
Ms. Littlewood's Theater Workshop, based in a shabby old playhouse in a poor section of East London, won an international reputation with seasons of offbeat work that she staged by herself.
School trips to the Old Vic, and in particular to John Gielgud's performance as Hamlet, bred in her a love of the theater and she won a coveted scholarship to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art.
The Reinharts' joint activities included the highly praised Balanchine Festival two years ago at the Kennedy Center and ''Free to Dance,'' a documentary film for public television about black dance for which the Reinharts just won an Emmy Award as its executive producers.
The work won the American Medical Writers Association Book Award in 1975.
''
        The role of Stella also won her an Academy Award for best supporting actress when the director Elia Kazan adapted his Broadway production to the screen.
And then by that time, I won my Oscar for the movie of 'Streetcar,' but I could not work in films.
Mrs. Chesler's work won praise around the country.
But the recruiter was out to lunch, and she was won over by a Navy recruiter who promised her overseas travel.
At the 1920 Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium, Riggin won the first gold medal awarded in women's springboard diving and became, at 4 feet 7 inches and 65 pounds, the smallest American Olympic champion.
Ethelda Bleibtrey, the American who won gold medals in all three women's races, told King Albert I of Belgium, ''I swam in mud, not water.
After that, American women won every gold medal in Olympic springboard diving until 1960.

        Mary Maxine Reed, who in 1971 won a landmark Supreme Court case that struck down dozens of state laws discriminating against women, died on Sept. 26 near Boise, Idaho.
Saying she was angry that ''women could be stepped on like that,'' Mrs. Reed then appealed to the District Court and won.
In 1970, she won a regional Emmy Award for writing and moderating the CBS television program ''The Learning Experience.
''When I won my first trophy and it was as big as me, I knew I wanted to someday make the Olympic team.
''
        She played singers in several films, and won a role singing to Humphrey Bogart in the film ''Out of the Blue'' after beating Ella Fitzgerald and Sarah Vaughan in auditions.
Her first book, ''Stones for Ibarra'' (Viking, 1984), which won the American Book Award for first fiction, was called ''a perfect book'' by the writer Alice Adams, and her next novel and a book of short stories elicited similar praise.
Ms. Doerr won the $2,500 Transatlantic Review-Henfield Foundation Award in 1982, based on three stories she had published in small literary magazines.
As an actress, Ms. Carroll won an Emmy (''Beyond the Blues,'' in 1964), an Obie (''Moon on a Rainbow Shawl,'' in 1962) and was nominated for three Tony awards.
At the same time, though, she was moonlighting in acting classes; drama soon won her over.
In 1962, she won her Obie in ''Moon Over a Rainbow Shawl'' Off Broadway, stealing scenes from her castmate James Earl Jones.
In 1964, she won her Emmy.
While acclaimed for her designs for ''Phantom of the Opera,'' for which she won two Tony Awards in 1988, she was mainly active in noncommercial theater.
At 14, she won an amateur contest that Hall held in Newark.
In 1995 it won Ms. Grealy a Whiting Award, given to provide financial support to young writers of exceptional talent.
