An early appearance with Jackie Coogan in Charlie Chaplin's 1921 film "The Kid" won her the role of Mrs.
It has won praise from critics as solid, shapely, durable, extremely thorough and warmed by its author's affection for the poet's countryside.
"
        In her years at the Metropolitan Opera, Miss Novotna sang 193 performances -- 142 in the opera house, the rest on tour -- and won consistent praise for her expressiveness and musicianship.
She won a scholarship to study at the Old Vic, after which she joined John Gielgud's company.
Her 1953 book about the writer Charlotte Bronte and members of her family, "The Bronte Story," won praise as an outstanding literary biography.
Won Presidential Medal
        She was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1969, a Congressional Gold Medal in 1989, and other honors.
The contract they won brought parity to nursing salaries in the public and private sectors.

        Doris C. Frankel, a playwright whose work found its way to Broadway, radio and television and who won an Emmy Award for her work on the soap opera "All My Children," died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Morris was nominated that year for best featured actress in a musical, and also won a Drama Desk award for her performance.
The book won her praise as an intelligent and humorous journalist and critic who ardently searched for the truth.
Her first effort, "The War Game" (1963), a short documentary, won a first prize at the Venice Film Festival in 1963.
During that period she produced over 30 plays and musicals for Warner, among them "Crimes of the Heart" by Beth Henley, which won a Pulitzer Prize.
In 1965 Ms. Nichtern won the Tony Award as best producer of a drama for her Broadway production of Mr. Schisgal's comedy "Luv," directed by Mike Nichols and starring Mr. Wallach, Ms. Jackson and Alan Arkin.
She won a scholarship to University College at the University of Toronto, where she contributed stories to the school's literary magazine.
Miss Mercouri was appointed Culture Minister in 1981 after the Socialists won a landslide victory.
After three years of preparation, she went on the Athens stage, won increasingly big parts and was acclaimed in the leading roles in "Mourning Becomes Electra" and "A Streetcar Named Desire.
Miss Mercouri was widely praised for her Madonna-prostitute role in "He Who Must Die" and, three years later, for her hedonistic prostitute in "Never on Sunday," for which she won an award as best actress at Cannes and an Academy Award nomination.
"
        Miss Hall won critical acclaim for her performance as the lead in "The Merry Widow" in Central City, Colo., in 1933.
Ms. Harper, who grew up in New York, began her career in 1974 as a co-anchor for WPIX, where she won two local Emmy awards.
It was during her tenure that the station won five successive Emmys from 1984 to 1989 for Outstanding Single Newscast.
She won an Emmy herself during that period for a series she reported on the plight of New York City's homeless population.
She won two local Emmy awards at WPIX.
During her tenure at that station it won five successive Emmy awards from 1984 to 1989.
She won an Emmy herself in that period, for a series she reported on New York City's homeless.
"
        In addition to her support for historic preservation, Mrs. Bissell was a noted horticulturist and expert in camellias, for which she won prizes at gardening competitions.
But a year later, after Mr. Kennedy had won a seat in the United States Senate and was already being discussed as a Presidential possibility, they were married at Newport, R.I., in the social event of 1953, a union of powerful and wealthy Roman Catholic families whose scions were handsome, charming, trendy and smart.
And after Mr. Kennedy won the Presidency in 1960, there were a thousand days that seemed to raise up a nation mired in the cold war.
While she was finishing the work for her degree, she won Vogue magazine's Prix de Paris contest, with an essay on "People I Wish I Had Known," beating out 1,279 other contestants.
"
        "I lose three pounds a performance," she told an interviewer at the time, and her efforts won her a Tony Award nomination.
"
        She had already won recognition for her acting in a 1954 production of Jean Cocteau's play "The Infernal Machine.

        Dorothy H. Davis, one of the elite group of female pilots who won their wings and the respect of their male colleagues flying military aircraft during World War II, died on Wednesday at her home in San Francisco.
Issued by Health Communications Inc. in 1983, the book won a grass-roots following and made best-seller lists around the country in 1986 and stayed on them for about a year.
In 1956, Fortune magazine ranked her among the top businesswomen in the United States, and she won the National Retail Merchants Gold Medal for retailing twice.
In 1976, her album "Prayer Changes Things" won a Grand Prix du Disque in France.
Her first career thoughts were for secretarial work, but when her parents entered her in a talent show in 1938, she won a wristwatch and a chance to sing on a children's radio program in nearby Detroit.

        Dorothy Hodgkin, a British scientist who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for 1964, died on Friday in her home at Shipston-on-Stour, in Warwickshire in central England.
An English translation of one of her most widely read novels, "Memoirs of Leticia Valle," won praise when it was published earlier this year by the University of Nebraska Press in a translation by Carol Maier, a professor of Spanish at Kent State University.
" It was a performance that won her critical acclaim from Los Angeles to Berlin and, at last, an Academy Award.
" The Academy Award came one year after she won an Emmy for her performance in the television adaptation of "Foxfire," of which her husband was was a co-writer.
When they took "The Gin Game" to Moscow in 1979, they won the accolade that Mr. Cronyn treasures above all others.
"
        Miss Tandy was nominated five times for a Tony and won three: in 1948 for her role as Blanche Dubois, for "The Gin Game" in 1978, and for "Foxfire" in 1983.
"
        The play, co-starring Marlon Brando in the role of Stanley Kowalski and Kim Hunter as Blanche's sister, Stella, won rapturous reviews, a Pulitzer Prize and the Drama Critics Circle Award and ran for more than two years on Broadway before going on a national tour.
"
        Miss Raye sang, she danced, she acted on Broadway, in Hollywood and on television, but the knockabout comic won perhaps her greatest renown as an indefatigable trouper who traveled thousands of miles through three wars to lift the morale of America's fighting forces.

        Gertrude Russek Nemerov, whose family founded and ran the Russeks Fifth Avenue department store in Manhattan and whose children won fame in the world of arts and letters, died on Tuesday in Albuquerque, N.M. She was 93.
Mrs. Nemerov's son, the poet Howard Nemerov, won a Pulitzer Prize in 1978 and served as Poet Laureate of the United States from 1988 to 1990.
She went to court with the New York Civil Liberties Union and won an $8,500 award.
Miss Hayman won a Tony in 1968 as best supporting actress for her performance in the musical "Hallelujah Baby.

        Wilma Rudolph, who grew from a sickly child unable to walk into a statuesque athlete of 20 who won three gold medals as a sprinter in the 1960 Olympics in Rome, died yesterday at her home in Brentwood, Tenn., near Nashville.
The next day, the ankle held up, and with her fluid running style she won her semifinal in 11.3 seconds, equaling the world record.
She won the final easily in 11.0 seconds, but the following wind of 6.15 miles an hour (the allowable limit is 4.47) precluded recognition as a world record.
In the 200 meters, she set an Olympic record of 23.2 seconds in the heats and won the final easily in 24.0 seconds into a stiff wind.
She was the first American woman to win three or more medals in one Olympics, not the first woman; Fanny Blankers-Koen of the Netherlands won four gold medals at the 1948 Games in London.
      
Mrs. Speare's last book, "The Sign of the Beaver" (1983), also won the Newbery Medal, as well as the Scott O'Dell Award for Historical Fiction.
Like many other jazz giants of her generation, she had her first break when she won an amateur talent contest at the Apollo Theater in Harlem.
A native New Yorker who graduated from Sarah Lawrence College in 1943, Mrs. Everdell won the national women's sailing championships in 1939, 1940, 1947 and 1971.
Mrs. Julianelli, whose career spanned 40 years, won the Coty American Fashion Critics Award in 1950 with her husband and partner, Charles Julianelli, for artistry and craftsmanship in shoe styles.
