''HIV, Mon Amour'' drew a great deal of attention and won several awards, including the James Laughlin Award of the Academy of American Poets.
'' When Ms. Wasserstein won the best-play Tony for ''Heidi Chronicles,'' it was the first time a woman had won the prize solo.
'' When Ms. Wasserstein won the best-play Tony for ''Heidi Chronicles,'' it was the first time a woman had won the prize solo.
A reliable character mezzo, Ms. Costa-Greenspon consistently won critical praise for her musicianship, singing and acting.
In 1984, the two enjoyed a burst of fame when Ms. Costa-Greenspon won $1.7 million in the New York State Lotto game.
She won again for best supporting actress as the vicious mother of a blind girl in ''A Patch of Blue'' (1965).
Her stage name came from the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley and from her mother, Rose Winter, an amateur soprano who had once won a Municipal Opera contest in St. Louis.
''
        Ms. Meacham won an Obie Award for her performance as the fragile, emotionally distraught Catharine Holly in ''Suddenly, Last Summer,'' the more successful and more often revived half of the 1958 Off Broadway double bill ''Garden District.
Her New York stage debut came in the short-lived 1952 World War II comedy ''The Long Watch,'' for which she won a Clarence Derwent Award, a prize for newcomers to New York.
She won a second Obie award for a revival of ''Hedda Gabler'' in 1961.

        Sybille Bedford, whose first novel won high praise among England's literary elite and earned her a place in its most celebrated and exclusive literary circles, died Feb. 17 at a hospital near her home in London.
Beginning in 1970, Ms. Hoban wrote, designed, illustrated and published 110 or more titles, a score of them in print, which won dozens of awards.
She won a scholarship that took her to England and the Netherlands, and soon turned to magazine illustration and photography.
She won a second fellowship, even more prestigious than the first, that would allow her to continue for a doctorate.
She won a second fellowship, even more prestigious than the first, that would allow her to continue for a doctorate.
By 1965, renamed the Opera Company of Boston, it had won an important place in American opera.
Her food and wine books, which won many awards, include ''A Cook's Tour of Rome,'' ''A Cook's Tour of San Francisco'' and ''The University of California/Sotheby Book of California Wine.
Ms. Reeve, a singer and an actress, won international admiration for her devotion to Mr. Reeve's care and for her involvement in the Christopher Reeve Foundation, which seeks a cure for spinal cord paralysis.
She might not have fulfilled her promise, but for a good dozen years Ms. Moffo enjoyed enormous success and won a devoted following at a time when her competition for roles like Verdi's Violetta, Puccini's Mimi and Donizetti's Lucia included Maria Callas, Renata Tebaldi and Joan Sutherland.
Instead, in 1954 she entered and won the Philadelphia Orchestra Young Artists Auditions.
There, the teenage Anna took music lessons from Prokofiev, danced in the Ballets Russes and won a Miss Russia contest, after which she went to Algeria to compete for Miss World.

        Maureen Stapleton, who created a gallery of pugnacious, sometimes profane but always vulnerable heroines on Broadway, in films and on television and who won an Academy Award for her fiery performance as the anarchist Emma Goldman in ''Reds,'' died yesterday at her home in Lenox, Mass.
She also won two Tony Awards and an Emmy among many nominations.
The play opened on Broadway in March 1957 and drew mixed reviews, but Ms. Stapleton won raves in the lead role of Lady Torrance, Williams's gritty, sex-starved heroine.
Ms. Stapleton had an earlier disappointment when Magnani won an Academy Award for best actress as Serafina in the 1955 film version of ''The Rose Tattoo.
In 1967 she won an Emmy for her television work in ''Among the Paths to Eden,'' an adaptation of a Truman Capote story about a spinster and a widower.
She and Mr. Scott played three different warring couples to hilarious effect, and her performance won her another Tony nomination.
She was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actress for ''Airport'' (1970); she won a best-actress Tony that same year for her portrayal of an alcoholic down-and-out singer in Mr. Simon's laughing-through-tears drama ''The Gingerbread Lady''; she and her co-star, Charles Durning, received Emmy nominations for ''Queen of the Stardust Ballroom'' (1975), playing a couple who warm to romance when they meet at a dance hall.
'' The performance won her the Oscar for best supporting actress.
She starred in the Luchino Visconti film ''Senso'' (1953), a role that won her the best-actress award at the 1954 Venice Film Festival.
The expressway's opponents won.
''
        Her team won the Patriot League regular-season championship for the first time.
It then won the conference tournament, and its automatic N.C.A.A.
At the University of San Diego, the 5-foot-11 Dixon won four varsity letters in basketball and was the captain her senior year.
Jay Presson Allen's adaptation for the stage became a vehicle in London in 1964 for Vanessa Redgrave, on Broadway in 1968 for Zoe Caldwell, who won a Tony for her performance, and in Hollywood in 1969 for Maggie Smith, who won an Oscar for best actress in the role.
Jay Presson Allen's adaptation for the stage became a vehicle in London in 1964 for Vanessa Redgrave, on Broadway in 1968 for Zoe Caldwell, who won a Tony for her performance, and in Hollywood in 1969 for Maggie Smith, who won an Oscar for best actress in the role.
The book won the James Tait Black Memorial prize.
Spark was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 1967, became a Dame of the British Empire in 1993 and in 1997 won the David Cohen Literature Prize for lifetime achievement.
The film ''Tsotsi,'' which won an Oscar as best foreign film this year, vividly shows the lives of young thugs on the Soweto-Johannesburg trains, and in 1996, Ms. Kuzwayo described to the truth commission the changes she had seen in young men like them.
In its first few years, the role brought out critically acclaimed performances from almost every actress who played it; Vanessa Redgrave, who originated the role in London in 1966, won raves, and Zoe Caldwell won a Tony Award in the 1968 American production.
In its first few years, the role brought out critically acclaimed performances from almost every actress who played it; Vanessa Redgrave, who originated the role in London in 1966, won raves, and Zoe Caldwell won a Tony Award in the 1968 American production.
In 1969, Ms. Allen adapted the play for the screen, and Maggie Smith won the Academy Award for best actress.
For that, Julie Harris won a Tony Award.
Liza Minnelli won best actress for her role as the tragically oblivious party girl Sally Bowles.
Robert Morse won a Tony Award for his portrayal of late-career Truman Capote in Ms. Allen's 1989 one-man show, ''Tru.
In 2004, ''Sister Rose's Passion,'' a 39-minute documentary film on her life, won an award at the Tribeca Film Festival, and it was nominated for an Academy Award in 2005.
Five years later, in August 2005, she was part of a team of three lawyers that won a verdict of $253.5 million against Merck in a state court in Texas, one of the largest damage awards ever to a single plaintiff.
She won many battles, like raising the federal minimum wage to $1.15 an hour in 1961.

        The mezzo-soprano Lorraine Hunt Lieberson, who won near universal praise from critics and audiences for her courageous, insightful and deeply affecting artistry, died on Monday at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 52.
Mrs. Truscott won four world titles as a player: the Venice Cup in 1974, 1976 and 1978, and the Women's Team Olympiad in 1980.
She won the first of her national titles in 1959, and in 1965 became the second woman to play for the United States in the Bermuda Bowl world team championship.
She won one world silver medal, from the 1965 Bermuda Bowl, and six world bronze medals, from the Open Pairs in 1966 (she is the only woman to win a medal in this event); the Women's Team Olympiads in 1968, 1972 and 1976; and the Women's Pairs in 1962 and 1974.
Ms. Bennett won a British Council Scholarship to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London in 1945 and was the first black student there.
''
        Recovering from her injuries, she tried out for and won a chorus job in a 1938 Broadway revue, ''Sing Out the News,'' taking the name June (for the month) Allyson.
She won two awards for bravery, but sometimes had an unusual perspective on people she arrested.
She gave $125 she had won on a television quiz show to the pregnant wife of the large armed man who had attacked her.
Her first novel, ''The Bait,'' won the Edgar Award as the best first mystery novel of 1968 and introduced Detective Second Grade Christie Opara, who starred in Ms. Uhnak's next two novels, ''The Witness'' (1969) and ''The Ledger'' (1970).
That Ms. Day was doing something more than right was spectacularly confirmed by the influx of her students into first-rank companies and by the prizes they won beginning in the 1970's in top international competitions in Moscow; Helsinki, Finland; Lausanne, Switzerland; and Varna, Bulgaria.
Miss Schwarzkopf attended the Berlin Royal Augusta School and later won admission to the Hochschule für Musik.
In 1934, before beginning her formal training, she won a grant from the League of National Socialist Students for a cycling and camping trip to England, where she learned English.
The director of the company, Wilhelm Rode, had won the favor of Joseph Goebbels, the Nazi propaganda minister.
Her performance won the attention of Maria Ivogün, a noted exponent of the role.

        Susan Butcher, a pioneer for women in sled-dog racing who won the Iditarod race four times and influenced the training and treatment of dogs in the sport, died Saturday at a hospital in Seattle.
She won three years in a row, from 1986 to 1988, and again in 1990 before retiring from competition to raise a family with her husband and fellow musher, David Monson, in the mid-1990's.
''She won the audience.
William P. Clements Jr., the first Republican governor of Texas since Reconstruction, decided not to run for re-election, Ms. Richards challenged a former governor, Mark White, in the Democratic primary and won.
''
        Her warnings endeared her to many conservatives and won her, a lifelong atheist, an audience with Pope Benedict XVI in 2005.
Bayer soon won the first women's race on the Schuylkill, a doubles competition among club members.
Ernestine Bayer captured many medals in master's races, and at 92 she won two golds and a silver, competing in doubles and eight-oared events, in the 60-and-over category at the masters world championships in Montreal.
In 1984, the United States women's eight won a gold medal at the Los Angeles Olympics.
Berg won the first United States Women's Open, in 1946, and she won the Titleholders Championship and the Western Open seven times each when they were major tournaments.
Berg won the first United States Women's Open, in 1946, and she won the Titleholders Championship and the Western Open seven times each when they were major tournaments.
Berg won 60 professional and 28 amateur tournaments.
Leaving those sports behind, she began taking golf lessons and at age 16 won the Minneapolis city golf championship.
''
        In 1938, Berg won 10 of 13 amateur tournaments, including the United States Women's Amateur, and was named to the Curtis Cup team for the second time.
She was sidelined for 18 months, then won a couple of tournaments before becoming a Marine officer in World War II, working stateside in recruitment and public relations posts.
Berg won the inaugural United States Women's Open in 1946 in Spokane, Wash., defeating Betty Jameson in match play.
In 1990, when the incumbent governor, William P. Clements Jr., decided not to run for re-election, she ran against a former Democratic governor, Mark White, and won the primary, then later fought a particularly brutal campaign against Republican candidate Clayton Williams, a wealthy rancher, and won.
In 1990, when the incumbent governor, William P. Clements Jr., decided not to run for re-election, she ran against a former Democratic governor, Mark White, and won the primary, then later fought a particularly brutal campaign against Republican candidate Clayton Williams, a wealthy rancher, and won.

        Isabel Bigley, who won a Tony award in 1951 playing Sarah Brown, the Salvation Army missionary who falls in love with a handsome gambler in the raucous Broadway hit ''Guys and Dolls,'' died Saturday in Los Angeles.
''
        Correction:  October 6, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Tuesday about Isabel Bigley, who won a Tony award in 1951 playing Sarah Brown, the missionary who falls in love with a gambler in the Broadway hit ''Guys and Dolls,'' misstated the name of the organization she represented.
The movie won six Academy Awards, including best picture, best director and best screenplay.
The role of the caddish drama critic Addison DeWitt, for which George Sanders won an Oscar, was invented for the film.

        Florence Klotz, who won six Tony Awards for designing some of the most memorable costumes in recent Broadway history, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
'' She won a Tony Award later that year.
Correction:  November 4, 2006, Saturday  A picture caption yesterday with an obituary about a Broadway costume designer who won six Tony Awards misstated her surname at one point.
After Ms. Brown's string of hits ended, she kept singing but also went on to a career in television, radio and movies ( including a memorable role as the disc jockey Motormouth Maybelle in John Waters's ''Hairspray'') and on Broadway, where she won a Tony Award for her part in ''Black and Blue.
Her 1989 album ''Blues on Broadway'' won a Grammy Award for best jazz vocal performance, female.
'' In 1995 she released her autobiography, ''Miss Rhythm'' (Dutton), written with Andrew Yule; it won the Gleason Award for music journalism.
Although the society won a 1987 federal case, the decision was overturned on appeal in 1988, with the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit holding that 24 hours was ''unrealistic'' for the crowded New York City court system and instead allowing 72 hours between arrest and arraignment.
She won by convincing Justice Soloff that the city was wasting time at the expense of people who had been arrested but not charged with any crime.
She won a settlement in 2005 under which the city paid the arrested people and their lawyers $231,200.
Despite mixed reviews the show won six Tony Awards, including one for the music and lyrics, and enjoyed a run of two and a half years.
On Broadway, starting with ''On the Town'' in 1944, they had won a shelf full of Tony Awards.
Ms. van Stockum won honors from the Newbery Medal committee in 1935 for her first book, ''A Day on Skates: The Story of a Dutch Picnic.

        Anne Rogers Clark, a commanding figure in the world of show dogs who won renown at the Westminster Dog Show as a handler, a judge and a breeder, died Wednesday in Wilmington, Del., at the home of a friend.
She won her first best in show at Westminster in 1956, handling a toy poodle, Ch.
Surrey Spice Girl, which she bred with Barbara Furbush and her protégé Kaz Hosaka, won best in show.
Beautifully filmed, with an eroticism unusual for its time, ''Woman in the Dunes'' appeared in the second New York Film Festival and won a special jury prize at the Cannes Film Festival.
The public works won her early official acclaim, including an All Union Prize for ''The Hero's Exploit'' (1959).
''
        ''Neither Black Nor White'' won a Sidney Hillman Award as the best book of 1957 on world peace, race relations or civil liberties.
Though he won, she thought him too moderate to inherit the Reagan legacy.
'' He won her over.
Robert C. McFarlane, who had won the national security slot over Ms. Kirkpatrick, pleaded guilty to misinforming Congress.
When Mr. Reagan came to office in 1981, 51 of the committee's members won positions of significant power in his administration.
