'''
        Her professors listened to her at Brooklyn College, where she won prizes in debating.
In 1937, she won a contest to serve as Kansas City's paid ambassador and ended up making a many-feathered entrance in New York when she presented a live turkey to Mayor Fiorello La Guardia on the steps of City Hall.
But she won high critical praise for her performance as the unfaithful wife of a returning veteran in ''The Best Years of Our Lives'' (1946), widely regarded as one of the finest movies to come out of the World War II homecoming experience.
Her livestock and plants won awards.
'''
        Her professors listened to her at Brooklyn College, where she won prizes in debating.
She won the hijackers' pity for one passenger by explaining that his daughter had been delivered by a Lebanese doctor.
She won a scholarship to Oberlin and graduated summa cum laude with a major in English in 1938.
One, ''Escape Through the Pyrenees,'' which was first published in West Germany in 1985, won that country's award for the political book of the year.
The next year, she was nominated for best actress for her next role, opposite Gary Cooper as Lou Gehrig's wife in ''The Pride of the Yankees,'' and won the Oscar for best supporting actress as the love interest of Greer Garson's war-bound son in ''Mrs.
Her pictorial reportage won two Emmy awards.
Herman Talmadge was later officially appointed to fill out his father's term through 1948, when he won a special election; he went on to win a full four-year term as governor in 1950.
She lost the primary; Newt Gingrich, a Republican, won the general election.
Mr. Battle won a Tony Award, as did the costume designer, Willa Kim.
She had her Broadway debut in 1940 in Robert Sherwood's ''There Shall Be No Night,'' and she also won a Hollywood studio contract.
Elizabeth McFarland was born on May 3, 1922, in Harrisburg, Pa. As a teenager, she won a national poetry contest sponsored by Scholastic magazine; she later became Scholastic's poetry editor.
She repeatedly won praise for her work, as well as an Academy Award and two Tonys.
When the play opened in 1958, Ms. Bancroft stole the show and ultimately won a Tony Award as best supporting actress.
And when ''The Miracle Worker'' was made into a film in 1962, both Ms. Bancroft and Ms. Duke won Academy Awards.
'' Mr. Nichols won an Oscar, while nominations went to Ms. Bancroft, Mr. Hoffman and Katharine Ross, who played Mrs. Robinson's daughter.
Ms. Bancroft won an Emmy in 1999 for best supporting actress in a mini-series, for the CBS drama ''Deep in My Heart.
Only Pat Summitt of Tennessee (852-167) and Judy Conradt of Texas (869-278) have won more games in women's basketball.
In 1980 she won the Emmy Award for best actress in a dramatic series for her role on ''Dallas.
She decided to run for Parliament just five days before the deadline to register as a candidate for the 1987 election and won a seat in Redcar, on the North Sea coast.
She argued 10 cases before the United States Supreme Court and won nine of them.
Judge Motley won cases that ended segregation in Memphis restaurants and at whites-only lunch counters in Birmingham, Ala. She fought for King's right to march in Albany, Ga. She played an important role in representing blacks seeking admission to the Universities of Florida, Georgia Alabama and Mississippi and Clemson College in South Carolina.
''
        She was an associate producer of ''Torch Song Trilogy,'' Harvey Fierstein's groundbreaking play, which won the 1983 Tony Award for best drama and Mr. Fierstein a Tony for best actor.
In her teens she won a scholarship to Juilliard, but it was decided that living in New York would cost the family too much money; she studied classical music at Howard University in Washington instead.
The company built up her career all over again over the course of 11 albums, including ''You Won't Forget Me'' (1990), which featured guest appearances by Miles Davis and Wynton Marsalis; ''I Remember Miles'' (1998), which won a Grammy Award; and a few that featured string sections.
Essentially commissioned by the movie producer Jerry Wald, Ms. Jaffe was a 25-year-old former associate editor in publishing when she sat down to write a book that Mr. Wald could turn into a blockbuster feature like ''Kitty Foyle: The Natural History of a Woman,'' a 1940 film that won Ginger Rogers an Academy Award for playing a plucky working girl who finds love, heartache, an unwanted pregnancy and, finally, romantic redemption.
