In October 1941, she won a scholarship competition at the School of American Ballet, founded in 1934 by Balanchine, Lincoln Kirstein and others.
In 1940, she married Francis A. Jamieson, a journalist who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1933 for his coverage of the kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby.
''The widely held feeling that the virus grew solely in nerve cells had to be set aside,'' said Dr. John F. Enders, who won a Nobel Prize for developing a technique that allowed the polio virus to be grown in cells.
In 1995, the actress offered to sell the Oscar she won for her supporting role in the 1947 film ''Gentlemen's Agreement'' to keep the clinic open, to no avail.
In 1965, they won the Gold Medal of the National Conference of Christians and Jews for a Look magazine piece, ''The Christian War Against Anti-Semitism.

        Gail Fisher, who won an Emmy Award in 1970 for her portrayal of Peggy Fair, secretary to the gumshoe played by Mike Connors on the CBS television series ''Mannix,'' died on Dec. 2 at a hospital in Los Angeles.
I won.
Her books include ''Greece in the Bronze Age'' (1964), which focused on Mycenaean culture; ''Aspects of Death in Early Greek Art and Poetry'' (1979), which won the Philological Association's Charles J. Goodwin Award of Merit; and ''Mycenaean Pictorial Vase Painting'' (1982).
It won a prize, which led to assignments from Fortune magazine to illustrate articles.
''Citizen 13660,'' containing text and 206 drawings, won praise when it appeared.
Young Anne attended Miss Chapin's School in Manhattan, where her family maintained an apartment, and went on to Smith, where she won two literary prizes before she graduated in 1928.

        Dale Evans, who won the hearts of millions of Americans as she rode alongside her husband, Roy Rogers, in western films and on ''The Roy Rogers Show'' in the early years of television, died yesterday at her home in Apple Valley, Calif., east of Los Angeles.
''No one realizes that the eight-hour day was won by working people on these streets, in this park,'' Dr. Bernhardt told The New York Times in 1998, as she sat in Union Square, once ringed by union halls and threadbare left-wing publishers and now by upscale restaurants and chain retailers.
A versatile performer, Ms. Karnilova won a Tony Award in 1964 when she portrayed Golde, opposite Zero Mostel as Teyve, in ''Fiddler on the Roof.

        Beatrice Straight, a graceful and versatile actress who won both an Oscar and a Tony Award, died on Saturday in North Ridge, Calif. She was 86 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif., for most of the last 10 years.
In 1977 she won an Academy Award as best supporting actress for her performance in Sidney Lumet's ''Network'' as the wife William Holden's character spurns.

        Graziella Sciutti, an Italian soprano and opera director whose purity of sound and deft characterizations won her admiration in Mozart, Puccini and Verdi roles, died on Monday in Geneva.
Her 1995 staging of ''La Bohème'' at the New York City Opera won an Emmy Award after it was broadcast as part of the ''Live From Lincoln Center'' series in 1997.
For Ms. Porter, whose performance won her an award from the Society of Film and Television Arts as best actress and designation by Queen Elizabeth II in 1970 as an officer of the Order of the British Empire, ''The Forsyte Saga'' proved to be a mixed blessing.
She found herself back in London when the Carl Rosa and Sadler's Wells companies merged in 1959, but before resuming her career, she won a scholarship that allowed her to study for six months with the great soprano Eva Turner.
A PBS series that she produced with the Children's Express News Magazine won Peabody and Emmy Awards.
'' First published in 1986, it won an award from the American College of Internal Medicine the year after and went into its third edition in 1997 at McGraw Hill, where it remains in print.
'' In 1998, they sued the government for the separation from their parents and won $4 million.
''
        At the height of her success, Ms. Coca, who won an Emmy as the best actress of 1951, was making $10,000 a week.
And in 1967, ''The Sid Caesar, Imogene Coca, Carl Reiner, Howard Morris Special'' won an Emmy Award for the year's best variety show.
An avid golfer, Mrs. Sulzberger was women's champion of the Century Country Club in Purchase, N.Y., in 1929, 1933 and 1939, and won several Westchester County championships and New York State senior tournaments.
An avid golfer, Mrs. Sulzberger was women's champion of the Century Country Club in Purchase, N.Y., in 1929, 1933 and 1939, and won several Westchester County championships and New York State senior tournaments.
The second won Miss Welty her first of six O. Henry Awards.
The first was for ''Petrified Man'' (1939); ''A Worn Path'' won in 1941.
      
''
        In her era, a far simpler time when there was no Cartoon Network or hip, irony-tinged children's programs, Ms. Horwich won acclaim.
It won the 1951 Newbery Medal and was translated into several foreign languages, as were some of her other books.
Their sparring not only won laughs, but also touched the heart.
''
        Ms. Stanley had already won accolades two years earlier as the hoydenish teenager Millie Owens in ''Picnic.
In that film Ms. Stanley won praise as a glamorous actress whose life is emotionally barren, managing to project glamour even though she was quick to concede she was no celluloid siren.
'' Two years later, in Henry Denker's semi-documentary 1961 play ''A Far Country,'' directed by her husband, Alfred Ryder, Ms. Stanley won praise as a young woman afflicted by hysterical paralysis who is helped by the pioneering work of Sigmund Freud.
The same year, in the British film thriller ''Seance on a Wet Afternoon,'' her portrayal of a sinister London medium who, with her compliant husband (Richard Attenborough), schemes to kidnap a child, won her rave reviews and an Oscar nomination as best actress.
In little more than a decade she had established herself as one of Broadway's most brilliant actresses although, oddly, she never won a Tony Award.
''
        Bandit escaped death after Ms. Hearne challenged the authorities and won custody of the dog for three months of training.

        Diana Golden Brosnihan, who lost a leg to cancer at 12, won a gold medal in disabled skiing at the 1988 Calgary Olympics and played a key role in public appreciation of disabled athletes, died Saturday at a hospital in Providence, R.I. She was 38.
She did, and a year later she won the downhill in the world handicapped championships.
From 1986 to 1990, she won 10 world and 19 United States championships.
In the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, when disabled skiing was a demonstration sport, she won the gold medal in the giant slalom.
''His idea was to go to the amusement park,'' she said, adding, ''He won a large collection of Kewpie dolls for me.
For her performances, she won a mantel-full of awards.
By the flip of a coin, Mrs. Scull won one of the most important, Jasper Johns's 1959 ''Out the Window.
But it was her work on more than 100 Broadway plays and musicals for which Ms. Matera was perhaps most acclaimed, particularly the original 1972 production of ''Follies,'' whose lavish costumes won their designer, Florence Klotz, a Tony Award and increased the adulation of Merrick.
Among the most prominent and successful exhibitors in the horse world, the Wheelers won thousands of blue ribbons, an average of 200 to 300 each year.
It also starred James Dunn, who won an Oscar as best supporting actor for his performance as Miss McGuire's doomed husband; Peggy Ann Garner, who received a special Oscar for her role as their daughter Francie; Joan Blondell; and Lloyd Nolan.
Celeste Holm won an Oscar as best supporting actress for the film, and Miss McGuire was nominated for best actress but lost to Loretta Young in ''The Farmer's Daughter.
Mrs. Crawford won a coveted cheerleader position, but hated facing the envy and resentment of the 90 girls who did not make it.
Soft-spoken and polite and with a Mona Lisa smile, Ms. Foster won her role over dozens of seasoned New York actresses.
It was a performance that won her ample attention from New York critics and producers.
She won an Obie Award for that performance, one of three she would receive.
That performance won Ms. Foster another Obie in addition to a Theater World Award, and officially established her as a formidable classical actress.
'' Many of these productions were produced under the auspices of the New York Shakespeare Festival, whose longtime producer, Joseph Papp, also cast Ms. Foster as modern-day characters, including Miss Molly Hoffenburg in Bill Gunn's ''Forbidden City,'' for which she won a third Obie in 1989.

        The statuesque performer who won fame as Dagmar, a dumb-as-a-fox blonde on one of television's first late-night shows, died on Tuesday at her home in Ceredo, W.Va. She was 79.

        Jacqueline T. Babbin, a television producer who won an Emmy Award for ''Sybil,'' a 1976 TV drama, died on Oct. 6 at her home in Kent, Conn. She was 80.
The NBC show, which won a Peabody Award as well, received four Emmys, including one for Sally Field, who had the title role.
Under that banner, she produced CBS's ''Children's Hour'' in 1969 and won a Peabody Award for ''J.T.,'' one of its installments.
For her performance, Ms. de Havilland won an Academy Award as best actress.
At 15, Ms. Jones sang at the Apollo Theater's amateur night in the summer of 1944, and immediately after her performance she auditioned for and won a job singing with Buddy Johnson, who led a 19-man band.
Acting opposite Walter Pidgeon, Ms. van der Vlis won the type of reviews that would secure her position as one of Broadway's most sought-after ingénues.
The book won an award from the International Association of Culinary Professionals.
Ms. Locke, of Lakota and Chippewa heritage, won a MacArthur Foundation fellowship in 1991 for her work to save tribal languages that were growing extinct throughout the United States.
The family's apartment was above a dance hall, and she won dance contests as a girl.
The exhibition's catalog won the New-York Historical Society's Henry Allen Moe Award for art-historical writing, and was also the first exhibition catalog to make the New York Public Library's annual Books to Remember list of 25 outstanding publications.
Her silver Lexus with the vanity plates 1 JUJU rests in the driveway after a morning trip to the Woodbury Jewish Center to explain the proposed 15 percent tax increase to 150 elderly residents; she thinks she won them over by being honest.
She ran unsuccessfully for the Oyster Bay Town Board in 1977, but when the County Board of Supervisors was replaced by the County Legislature in 1995, she won a seat, a powerless seat.
They won their first Academy Award in 1959 for ''Moonbird,'' an impressionistic account of young children at play whose unique soundtrack was the recorded voices of their two sons, Mark and Ray.
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences would not change the name of the category in which they won from ''cartoons'' to ''animated films'' until 1971, but the Hubleys were already expanding cartoons beyond Disney.
