
        Mona May Karff, who won the United States women's chess championship seven times, died on Jan. 10 at her home on Riverside Drive in Manhattan.
From the time she won her first national title at the second women's championship in 1938 until she clinched her seventh national championship in 1974, Miss Karff was in the forefront of women's chess in the United States.
For all her victories and the wide recognition she won in American chess circles, Miss Karff, who also won four straight United States Open titles, was something of a mystery.
For all her victories and the wide recognition she won in American chess circles, Miss Karff, who also won four straight United States Open titles, was something of a mystery.
When she won handily, the diffidence was replaced by something akin to a full-blown obsession.
After Dr. Lasker died in 1981 at 95, Miss Karff continued to play regularly at the Marshall, where she was cherished both for her own achievements and as a bridge to American chess history through her association with Dr. Lasker, who won his first open in 1916 and later played a famous match with Frank J. Marshall, a longtime champion who founded the club.
She made her public debut in a concert at the Cleveland Museum of Art when she was 6, and won prizes in several competitions while a teen-ager.
And its array of medical, job placement, adult education and other satellite programs have won it a reputation as a model of its kind.
Ms. Sunn won international fame as a surfing champion and captured the heart of Hawaii during a stirring 14-year battle with breast cancer.
Wills, who never appeared for a match without her signature stark white visor, won 31 Grand Slam titles in her 15 years of competition.
''
        She won the first of her 19 Grand Slam singles titles as a pigtailed 17-year-old in 1923 at the national championships in Forest Hills, N.Y.
In addition to her eight Wimbledon singles titles, Wills captured seven United States singles titles, won the French championships four times and earned gold medals in singles and doubles at the 1924 Olympics.
Moody also won 12 United States, French and Wimbledon doubles and mixed doubles titles with eight different partners.
At 15, on her first attempt, she won the national junior championship in 1921.
Lenglen won the raucous encounter, 6-3, 8-6.
Ms. Questel was 17 and living in the South Bronx when she won a local contest to find the girl who most resembled Helen Kane, a popular singer known as the boop-oop-a-doop queen.

        Lia Manoliu, a worldly woman who threw the discus for Romania in six Olympic Games and won the gold medal in 1968, died on Friday in a hospital in Bucharest.
She won a bronze in 1964 in Tokyo (186-10) and a gold in Mexico City in 1968 (191-2).
I have a friend, Mihaela Penes'' -- a Romanian who won the women's javelin throw in the 1964 Olympics -- ''who's endowed by nature.
After she won her Olympic gold medal, her husband, Aurel Naicu, who had limited success as a discus thrower and coach, bought an expensive American car in Mexico City and sent it to Bucharest.
Mrs. Osmundsen won hers, an American Anthropological Association publication said, ''for her contribution to the internationalization of anthropology, for her furtherance of all branches of the field through support of research and for uniquely creative use of conferences and symposia to further scholarly integration and development.
So she blithely switched her enrollment to the Conservative Party, picked up the gleeful endorsement of local Democrats and won the election.
Running unopposed, she won five more four-year terms.
A decade after Miss Franklin's death in 1958 and six years after he, Dr. Crick and Dr. Franklin's associate, Maurice Wilkins, won the Nobel Prize in 1962 for their work on DNA, Dr. Watson provided a hint of Dr. Franklin's contribution.
In 1965, Mayor Wagner made her a Civil Court judge and she won election to a 10-year term the next year.
Mrs. Harrington won the right to raise her child in 1976 by demonstrating to a dumbstruck judge what she could manage: she changed the baby's diaper with her teeth.
They also won her a following among the Boardwalk's casual strollers.
'' Her performance in that show won her Tony and Drama Desk nominations for best featured actress in a musical.
Ms. Abzug won the Democratic primary with 54 percent of the vote.
Ms. Abzug won in November, but she had made dedicated enemies who believed she was an overly aggressive politician who would not hesitate to attack anyone who got in her way.
She won the primary in a burst of the old, ebullient campaigning style, but lost in November to Joseph J. DioGuardi, the Republican incumbent.

        Baroness Lestor of Eccles, a crusading British politician who spoke out against apartheid in defiance of her Government's policies and who struck a blow on behalf of single mothers when she won the right to adopt two children on her own, died in a hospice in London on Friday.
Disillusioned by what she considered the extremism of her father's party, she joined Labor at the age of 24, won several local elections and was elected to Parliament in 1966.
When she won her case, she cried with happiness, and went on to adopt her son, David, in 1967, and her daughter, Susan, in 1969.
By the time she graduated she had switched to classical voice training, won encouraging praise for roles in student opera productions, and sung  ''Rigoletto'' in Ghent on a New York State scholarship in Belgium.
In 1991 she won the Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney Award from the Skowhegan School in Maine.
A past vice president of the American Psychiatric Association, she won international recognition for her work in community and social psychiatry, child psychiatry and adoption.
She exhibited her work at Manhattan galleries and won first place in a juried show in 1966 at the Salmagundi Club, the nation's oldest sketch club, when she became the first woman to receive the club's President's Award.
In 1928 she won second place in the O. Henry Memorial Prize for short story writing.
While working for three years on the Depression-era Federal Art Project, Ms. MacIver had her first individual show, in 1938 at Marian Willard's East River Gallery, and won praise early on.
In recent years, Clarion titles have won the Newbery and Caldecott Medals, the Laura Ingalls Wilder Award and the Hans Christian Andersen Award.
Mr. Ameche lost her to Mr. Power in ''Alexander's Ragtime Band'' and ''In Old Chicago'' but won her affections in ''You Can't Have Everything,'' ''Hollywood Cavalcade,'' ''Lillian Russell'' and ''That Night in Rio.
''
        Correction:  May 11, 1998, Monday  An obituary of the actress and singer Alice Faye in some editions yesterday misidentified the source of the song ''You'll Never Know,'' which won an Academy Award in 1944.
Mr. Ameche lost her to Mr. Power in ''Alexander's Ragtime Band'' and ''In Old Chicago'' but won her affections in ''You Can't Have Everything,'' ''Hollywood Cavalcade,'' ''Lillian Russell'' and ''That Night in Rio.
''
        Although none won literary acclaim, a number of her books, including ''The Black Candle,'' and ''The Velvet Gown,'' were made into television movies, and Mrs. Cookson, an Officer of the British Empire since 1985, was made a Dame, the equivalent of a Knight, in 1993.
She appeared in several more Fox movies and then won longterm contracts with MGM.
Upon her graduation from the academy in 1958, she won  the Charles Jehlinger Award, the school's highest student honor, and toured professionally as a member of the Academy Repertory Company.
As a leading player she won critical acclaim, particularly as Alice in the Civic's 1932 production of ''Alice in Wonderland.
She  won a law suit for the return of a Mercedes and other valuables confiscated from Mr. Churbanov.
Miss West, who began writing stories at age 7 in her family's elegant four-story house in Boston, was not yet 20 in 1926 when her short  story ''The Typewriter'' won a prize from the Urban League's Opportunity magazine.
When she did, in 1959, on an interim appointment to the old Philadelphia Municipal Court, she came up for election two months later and won handily, becoming the first black woman in the country to win election to a court of record.
Mr. Paz, who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1990, died on April 19.
The show won five Emmys in five years as well as a New York International Film Festival Gold Award and many other prizes.
Dr. Harrison received 20 honorary degrees and won awards from the American Chemical Society in 1977 and 1982 for her contributions as a teacher.
In her long life of fighting for women's and children's rights, Ms. Bernardino won many honors.
The novels won respect in the publishing industry, led to a couple of television movies and sold steadily in the United States, Europe and Japan, though not enough to make the authors wealthy.
In recent years, Mrs. Brown appeared rarely in public but on Tuesday stood at the side of her son, Hubert Humphrey 3d, Minnesota's Attorney General, when he won the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party nomination for governor.
Known by the abbreviation ''FloJo'' -- even her name was fast -- she set the world record for 100 meters at 10.49 seconds at the 1988 Olympic trials in Indianapolis, then established the mark of 21.34 seconds in winning the 200 meters at the 1988 Summer Games in Seoul, South Korea, where Griffith Joyner also won gold in the 100 meters and the 4x100-meter relay.
''
        Griffith Joyner attributed her improved times to weight training, distance running and increased determination after her 1987 marriage to Al Joyner, who had won the triple jump at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.
She was not a one-year wonder, having won a silver medal at 200 meters at the 1984 Summer Games.
In recent years, Mrs. Brown appeared rarely in public but on Tuesday stood at the side of her son, Hubert H. Humphrey 3d, Minnesota's Attorney General, when he won the Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party nomination for governor.
For all the acclaim she won, Dr. Butler chafed at what she saw as Connecticut's indifference or active opposition to her efforts to wrest children's literature from its vocational moorings and place it within the humanities.
That same year she released ''Look What I Got!,'' which won a Grammy, and in 1994 she recorded an album, ''Feed the Fire,'' with the pianist Geri Allen, the bassist Dave Holland and the drummer Jack DeJohnette.
Mr. Edey, the co-author of the book ''Lucy: The Beginnings of Mankind'' (1981), which won a National Book Award, died in 1992.
As a reporter and editor for The Washington Star for 15 years, Ms. House had won visibility and success covering the District of Columbia Police Department and local courts, one of the few women at the time to work that beat.
Ms. Lipson-Gruzen won notice with her visit to China in 1981, recording the Chopin Second Piano Concerto with the Beijing Central Philharmonic.
During the years Mrs. Barger was virtually invincible, from the mid- 1940's to the mid-1960's, the sport was so popular in Baltimore that the prestigious annual tournament sponsored by The Baltimore Evening Sun was regularly broadcast on local television, and Mrs. Barger, who won the tournament 12 times in 22 years, became such an acclaimed figure that she was regarded as the city's premiere athlete until Johnny Unitas came to town.
After Mr. Godin was elected to the province's assembly in 1976, the year the separatist party won control of the provincial government, she appeared regularly at major separatist rallies, leading huge crowds in song and fiery speeches.
She also played Mrs. Bradman in the National Theater Company's production of Sir Noel Coward's ''Blithe Spirit'' (1976) and won a Tony Award as best supporting actress for her performance as Delia in Alan Ayckbourn's ''Bedroom Farce'' (1977).
In 1956, she won the Clarence Derwent Award, then Britain's highest stage prize, for best supporting performance in Arthur Miller's ''View from the Bridge,'' in which she played a wife trying desperately to ignore her husband's incestuous feelings for his niece.
The coverage won the Pulitzer Prize for spot news in 1992.
Ms. Rolle became famous for playing the role of a strong-willed maid on television, and in that role she also performed memorably in the play ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' in the television movie ''Summer of My German Soldier,'' for which she won an Emmy award in 1979, and in the movie ''Driving Miss Daisy.
In 1939, she was cast as Marguerite Gautier in Alexandre Dumas's play ''La Dame aux Camelias,'' and she at last won recognition as a serious stage actor.
She took acting classes and eventually, in 1978, won a Drama Desk Award for her performance as the teacher in the original Broadway production of ''Working,'' which was adapted from Studs Terkel's book.
Ms. Farber was especially popular in France, where she won a gold medal, with Mr. Slayton, in the Ninth International Dance Festival in Paris in 1971.
The author, D. L. Coburn, won a Pulitzer Prize in 1977, one of many honors awarded to Ms. Roberts's clients, including Pulitzers for ''The Diary of Anne Frank,'' Mr. Sondheim's ''Sunday in the Park With George'' and ''Driving Miss Daisy,'' a play that she suggested Mr. Uhry write when he was thinking of doing a television mini-series.
