The one who won her was the handsome Robert Peel, whose ancestor Sir Robert Peel served as one of Queen Victoria's Prime Ministers and organized London's Metropolitan police force.
Mrs. Vare won the United States women's national title six times between 1922 and 1935, including three years in a row from 1928 through 1930.
Born in New Haven, she won her first match at the age of 14.
She won the Canadian championship in 1923 and 1924.

       Barbara W. Tuchman, whose skill at writing histories of men at war and on the brink of war won her two Pulitzer Prizes, died of complications of a stroke yesterday afternoon at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital.
She was 77 years old and was admitted to the hospital Saturday after suffering the stroke at her home at Cos Cob, Conn.
        Barbara W. Tuchman, whose skill at writing histories of men at war and on the brink of war won her two Pulitzer Prizes, died of complications of a stroke yesterday afternoon at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital.
She delighted in telling of once having won the daily double.

       Alfred G. and Elma Milotte, nature-film photographers who won six Academy Awards while working for Walt Disney, died less than a week apart.
Alfred G. and Elma Milotte, nature-film photographers who won six Academy Awards while working for Walt Disney, died less than a week apart.
She won national attention as the Chesterfield Cigarette Girl in 1933.
On the stage, Miss Ball won favorable notices for a 22-week tour in the title role of Elmer Rice's fantasy ''Dream Girl.
The broadcast officials were won over.
The series won more than 200 awards, including five Emmys.
Miss Radner, who won the Emmy as the outstanding actress in a variety series, was reared in a quasi-theatrical family in Detroit.
'' Won the Caldecott Medal
        ''I consider her the consummate illustrator for children's literature,'' said William Steig, the childrens' book author and illustrator, and a magazine artist for The New Yorker.
''
        In 1974, for ''Duffy and the Devil,'' Ms. Zemach won the Caldecott Medal, the most prestigious American award for children's book illustration, sponsored by the American Library Association.
She won a Fulbright Scholarship to study drawing in Vienna in 1955.
Several of the plays she wrote for the group won awards.
After graduating from the Royal Music Academy in Zagreb, where she won first prize in singing, Miss Kunc became a member of the State Opera, making her debut as Leonora in ''Il Trovatore.
She won a Theater World Award for her 1949 Broadway debut in a hit revue, ''Touch and Go,'' and had later popular successes in ''Hazel Flagg,'' ''Plain and Fancy,'' ''Pipe Dream'' and ''Juno.
Mrs. Mertz won the event as skipper four times.

       Kathleen Maguire, an actress who won an Obie Award in 1958 for her performance in ''The Time of the Cuckoo,'' died of cancer of the esophagus on Aug. 9 in Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
Kathleen Maguire, an actress who won an Obie Award in 1958 for her performance in ''The Time of the Cuckoo,'' died of cancer of the esophagus on Aug. 9 in Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
Mrs. Schott's familiar red, white and blue racing colors were carried by a number of outstanding horses, including Willow Hour, who won the Jim Dandy and Travers Stakes at Saratoga Springs, N.Y., in 1981.
She was 72 years old and lived in Katonah, N.Y.
        Mrs. Martin's work won the Gold Thimble Award of the Lighthouse Needlework Show four times, and it was exhibited at the New York Association for the Blind.
Both disliked Harry S. Truman, who won.

       Bette Davis, who won two Academy Awards and cut a swath through Hollywood trailing cigarette smoke and delivering drop-dead barbs, died of breast cancer Friday night at the American Hospital in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France.
She was 81 years old and lived in West Hollywood, Calif.
        Bette Davis, who won two Academy Awards and cut a swath through Hollywood trailing cigarette smoke and delivering drop-dead barbs, died of breast cancer Friday night at the American Hospital in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France.
Starting as a stage actress, she won spectacular fame as a screen star and, as she grew old, shifted effortlessly to high-paying television roles.
Miss Davis's two Oscars for best performance by an actress were won in 1935, for ''Dangerous,'' and in 1938, for ''Jezebel.
The Kennedy Honors coincided with the release of ''The Whales of August,'' a film in which Miss Davis co-starred with Lillian Gish and for which she won wide critical praise.
She came to regard the Oscar that she won the next year, for ''Dangerous,'' as ''a consolation prize.
They also gave her excellent, high-budget pictures, like ''Jezebel,'' for which she won her second Oscar in 1938.
She won custody of her daughter.

       Marina Woroniecka Viets, who won the Polish Army's highest military decoration as a 17-year-old in the Warsaw uprising in World War II, died of lymphoma Sept. 25 at Loudoun Memorial Hospital in Leesburg, Va. She was 61 years old and lived in Middleburg, Va.
        Marina Woroniecka Viets, who won the Polish Army's highest military decoration as a 17-year-old in the Warsaw uprising in World War II, died of lymphoma Sept. 25 at Loudoun Memorial Hospital in Leesburg, Va. She was 61 years old and lived in Middleburg, Va.
        As Soviet troops fought their way into Warsaw in 1945, she carried messages through Warsaw's sewer system and cellars of the capital.

       Marina Woroniecka Viets, who won the Polish Army's highest military decoration as a 17-year-old in the Warsaw uprising in World War II, died of lymphoma Sept. 25 at Loudoun Memorial Hospital in Leesburg, Va. She was 61 years old and lived in Middleburg, Va.
        Marina Woroniecka Viets, who won the Polish Army's highest military decoration as a 17-year-old in the Warsaw uprising in World War II, died of lymphoma Sept. 25 at Loudoun Memorial Hospital in Leesburg, Va. She was 61 years old and lived in Middleburg, Va.
        As Soviet troops fought their way into Warsaw in 1945, she carried messages through Warsaw's sewer system and cellars of the capital.
She was elected to the Outstanding Women Artists of America and has won several awards, including the American Watercolor Society Medal, the Philadelphia Watercolor Prize and the American Artists Professional League Medal.
A Basque left-winger who was a founder of the Spanish Communist Party, she won international renown during the Spanish Civil War for her indomitable stand.
A Basque left-winger who was a founder of the Spanish Communist Party, she won international renown during the Spanish Civil War for her indomitable stand.
She won an Emmy for the role in 1967.
      
She also won acclaim for her photographs of Tennessee mountain women, which appeared in Vanity Fair in 1933.
She studied dancing, won the title Miss Rome 1946 in a beauty contest, modeled and got minor parts in several movies before gaining the leading role in ''Bitter Rice'' as a lustful rice harvester in the Po Valley.
''
        The actress was born Marjorie Schuyler Fisher on Dec. 18, 1913, in Roanoke, Va., grew up there and in Boston and Los Angeles, studied acting and won her first contract after appearing in the chorus of a 1933 musical, ''Dancing Lady.
'' In 1985, Miss Burr won $235,000 in compensation from the state of Connecticut in a suit she filed in 1979.

       Stella Gibbons, who won fame with her first novel, ''Cold Comfort Farm,'' died Tuesday at her home in north London.
Stella Gibbons, who won fame with her first novel, ''Cold Comfort Farm,'' died Tuesday at her home in north London.
Mrs. Bachner, a graduate of St. Lawrence University, and her husband, Lester, a Manhattan lawyer who died in 1976, were avid tournament bridge players and won the National Mixed Team Championship in 1932.
She won one of the first Donaldson Awards for her droll performance as a wartime man-seeker in ''The Voice of the Turtle.
