She taught for a year in the Friends Central School in Philadelphia, then attended the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, where she studied portrait painting and won a scholarship for European travel.
Candy Jones was born Jessica Arline Wilcox in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and educated in Atlantic City, where she won a beauty pageant at the age of 16.
Miss Stanwyck was nominated for best-actress Academy Awards for all four of those performances but won none.
The two series won her two Emmies and a cluster of other awards.
At 18, she won a leading role as a cabaret dancer in a melodrama, ''The Noose,'' which ran on Broadway for nine months.
' ''
        In 1927, at the age of 20, she won a leading role in the Broadway play ''Burlesque.
'' She received good notices, played the part for two years and won nonexclusive contracts with Columbia Pictures and Warner Brothers.
Miss Stanwyck was nominated for best-actress Academy Awards for all four of those performances but won none.
Her television performances won her three Emmys and a cluster of other awards.
At 18, she won a leading role as a cabaret dancer in a melodrama, ''The Noose,'' which ran on Broadway for nine months.
' ''
        In 1927, at the age of 20, she won a leading role in the Broadway play ''Burlesque.
'' She received good notices, played the part for two years and won nonexclusive contracts with Columbia Pictures and Warner Brothers.
Praise for Later Roles
        She portrayed torch singers in ''The Hucksters'' (1947) and ''Show Boat'' (1951); an irrepressible playgirl in ''Mogambo'' (a 1953 role for which she won an Academy Award nomination); a tormented Anglo-Indian in ''Bhowani Junction'' (1956); a thoughtful cosmopolitan in ''On the Beach'' (1959), and a blowsy innkeeper in the film of Tennessee Williams's ''Night of the Iguana'' (1964).
Although she was mainly decorative in most of her early roles and many reviewers said her acting range was narrow, she won wide praise for many later performances.
The 1941 test won her a seven-year M-G-M contract and intensive diction lessons as well as a starlet's standard classes in acting, calisthenics, makeup and fashion.
Despite the personal setbacks, Miss Gardner won stardom at the age of 24 as a gun moll who betrays her lover (Burt Lancaster in his film debut) in ''The Killers.
In national championships she won the women's teams competition seven times and the women's pairs five times.
She won the mixed pairs and master mixed teams events once each.
She once inspired a series of articles that demonstrated the public's low interest and competence in history, a series that won The Times a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 1944 and provoked curriculum changes in many states.
She won awards from the National Book Critics Circle, the English Speaking Union and Hunter College, where, her brother said, she was to begin teaching a writing course today.
Miss Lehmann's first novel, ''Dusty Answer,'' won immediate fame for the young author when it was published in 1927.

       Josephine Johnson, a novelist and nature writer whose first novel, ''Now in November,'' won the 1935 Pulitzer Prize for fiction, died of pneumonia on Tuesday in Clearmont Mercy Hospital, Batavia, Ohio.
Josephine Johnson, a novelist and nature writer whose first novel, ''Now in November,'' won the 1935 Pulitzer Prize for fiction, died of pneumonia on Tuesday in Clearmont Mercy Hospital, Batavia, Ohio.
''
        Headed a Preservation League
        In 1976 she helped to found the Miami Design Preservation League, which in 1979 won Federal historic designation for the South Beach district of Miami Beach.
''
        She won a two-year scholarship to Stockholm's Royal Dramatic Theater Academy, where she was discovered by Mauritz Stiller, a famous, worldly and flamboyant director.
By shrewd negotiating, threatening to return to Sweden and staging a strike, she also won unheard-of raises.
In only three years, her weekly salary soared from $350 to $5,000, and six years later she won a record $270,000 per movie.
The film, directed by Edmund Goulding, won an Academy Award as the best picture of 1932.
They won her the New York Film Critics Awards for best actress in 1935 and 1936.
''
        ''Kiss Me Kate,'' a takeoff of Shakespeare's ''Taming of the Shrew,'' with a score by Mr. Porter, ran for 1,077 performances in New York and won a Tony Award, as well as a Page One Award, for the Spewacks in 1949.
Career Began on a Dare
        She also enjoyed performing popular tunes at parties, and when friends urged her to enter an amateur contest at the Apollo Theater in New York, she took the dare and won first prize in October 1942, singing ''Body and Soul.
'' In 1982 she won a Grammy for best jazz vocal performance, for her ''Gershwin Live!
The performances invariably won standing ovations.

       Lotte Jacobi, a fourth-generation photographer who fled Nazi Germany in 1935 and won fame with her sensitive portraits of scientists, statesmen and luminaries in the arts, died of pneumonia on Sunday in the Havenwood Nursing Home in Concord, N.H. She was 93 years old and lived in Deering, N.H.
        Lotte Jacobi, a fourth-generation photographer who fled Nazi Germany in 1935 and won fame with her sensitive portraits of scientists, statesmen and luminaries in the arts, died of pneumonia on Sunday in the Havenwood Nursing Home in Concord, N.H. She was 93 years old and lived in Deering, N.H.

       Lotte Jacobi, a fourth-generation photographer who fled Nazi Germany in 1935 and won fame with her sensitive portraits of scientists, statesmen and luminaries in the arts, died of pneumonia on Sunday in the Havenwood Nursing Home in Concord, N.H. She was 93 years old and lived in Deering, N.H.
        Lotte Jacobi, a fourth-generation photographer who fled Nazi Germany in 1935 and won fame with her sensitive portraits of scientists, statesmen and luminaries in the arts, died of pneumonia on Sunday in the Havenwood Nursing Home in Concord, N.H. She was 93 years old and lived in Deering, N.H.
Mrs. Roberts and a friend, James Hatcher, founded the Alabama State Council on the Arts and Humanities in 1966, and she won appointment from Gov.
In 1950, Mrs. Church won the 13th Congressional seat formerly held by her husband, Ralph E. Church, a lawyer, who died in March of that year.
Miss Foley, who won the women's national amateur platform diving championship as an undergraduate in 1927, was a coach of many women's sports teams at N.Y.U.
Miss Williams, whose sole acting training was in amateur plays, gained notice in a Philip Barry comedy in 1927, ''Paris Bound,'' and won Broadway over as a rebellious socialite in ''Holiday,'' the classic comedy of manners in 1928 that Barry wrote for her.
Since it was formed in 1976, the Producer Circle - founded by Mrs. Richards with her husband, Martin Richards, Robert Fryer and James Cresson - won 22 Tony Awards.
It produced such Broadway shows as ''On the Twentieth Century,'' ''Sweeney Todd,'' ''La Cage aux Folles,'' ''Crimes of the Heart,'' which won a Pulitzer Prize, and ''Grand Hotel.
''
        Praised in Broadway Debut
        Ms. Balin won critical praise for her Broadway debut in 1957 in ''Compulsion''; Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times said her portrayal of a convict's friend was ''tenderly moving.
'' In 1960, she won Britain's prized Kathleen Ferrier memorial award for singing, and in 1965 was a winner of the Verdi Competition at Busseto in Italy.
In 1957 she was appointed vice chairwoman of the Democratic State Committee to fill a vacancy, and in 1958 she won election to the post.
She also won critical praise as Sally Field's mother in the 1979 film ''Norma Rae'' and again in 1981 as a business executive in Wendy Wasserstein's play ''Isn't It Romantic.
Miss Baxley, born in Stockton, Calif., graduated with honors in speech and history from the College of the Pacific in Stockton and won a scholarship to the Neighborhood Playhouse in New York, where she studied with Sanford Meisner.

       Alison Leggatt, an actress who won renown in plays by John Osborne and Harold Pinter, died on Sunday, her family said today.
Alison Leggatt, an actress who won renown in plays by John Osborne and Harold Pinter, died on Sunday, her family said today.
'' ''The Street of the Flower Boxes'' inspired an NBC television special in the 1970's that won a Peabody Award and that inspired a movement for neighborhood beautification.
She sang ''Poor Butterfly'' and ''Talk of the Town'' and did a tap dance, and won first prize.
One summer, on a visit to Washington, Miss Bailey devised a dance act that won a $12 prize and led to other engagements.
Her performance, particularly her amusing version of ''Tired,'' won glowing notices, and she stayed at the club for eight months.
''
        Won Award in 1946
        New York theatergoers first saw her in 1946, in the musical comedy ''St.
'' She won the Donaldson Award as the most promising new performer of 1946 for her performance.
In a stage career that began in 1933 when she won first prize at an amateur night in Philadelphia and reached a peak with her 1967 starring role on Broadway in an all-black version of the musical ''Hello, Dolly!
She sang ''Poor Butterfly'' and ''Talk of the Town'' and did a tap dance, and won first prize.
One summer, on a visit to Washington, Miss Bailey devised a dance act that won a $12 prize and led to other engagements.
Her performance, particularly her amusing version of ''Tired,'' won glowing notices, and she stayed at the club for eight months.
'' She won the Donaldson Award as the most promising new performer of 1946 for her performance.

       Kathleen McLaughlin, a newspaper reporter for 44 years who won recognition as a political correspondent in the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday at a nursing home in Park Ridge, Ill. She was 92 years old.
Kathleen McLaughlin, a newspaper reporter for 44 years who won recognition as a political correspondent in the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday at a nursing home in Park Ridge, Ill. She was 92 years old.
At the United Nations, she won the trust of many diplomats and became known for perceptive writing about emerging third-world countries.
In 1958 she won the George Polk Memorial Award, one of many honors given for her writing.
Critics agreed that her artistry gave even inferior films some distinction, and she won praise for virtually every performance.
''
        RKO studios offered Miss Dunne a contract, and after a minor picture called ''Leathernecking'' and six months of drama lessons, she won the leading role of Richard Dix's wife in the 1931 screen adaptation of Edna Ferber's novel ''Cimarron.
''
        Miss Dunne chose her vehicles with great care and won even greater popularity in effervescent and urbane madcap comedies.
Besides enlivening many popular comedies, she proved her versatility in epics like ''Cimarron,'' her second film, which won her stardom; dramas like ''Back Street''; musicals; romances like ''Love Affair,'' and period films, including ''I Remember Mama.
Oscar Eluded Her
        Reviewers agreed that Miss Dunne's artistry gave even inferior films some distinction, and she won praise for virtually every performance.
She attended a music conservatory in Indianapolis and won a contest and scholarship at the Chicago Musical College.
In 1929, she won the lead ingenue role of Magnolia for a 72-week national tour of ''Show Boat,'' the now-classic musical by Jerome Kern and Oscar Hammerstein 2d musical based on Edna Ferber's novel about Mississippi River show folk.
RKO studios offered Miss Dunne a contract, and after six months of acting lessons, she won a leading role as Richard Dix's wife in the 1931 screen adaptation of Miss Ferber's novel ''Cimarron.
Miss Dunne won her greatest popularity in comedies.
She and Mr. Mowrer, who won his Pulitzer in 1933, were forced by the Nazis to leave Germany the same year.
The family moved to Sao Paulo, Brazil, where she won the state tennis championship in 1927.
Her sons Tom and Bob each won the United States Junior Championship twice and Bob was the Wimbledon champion in 1948.
Miss Audry received wide acclaim in 1946 for her screenplay for the film "The Battle for the Railway," an account of French rail workers' resistance to the Nazi Occupation, and she won the Medicis Prize, a top French literary award, in 1962 for her autobiographical novel "Behind the Bathtub.
She wrote the screenplays for several films directed by her sister Jacqueline, including "Sophie's Unhappiness" in 1946 and "Bitter Fruit," which won the Grand Prix of French Cinema, in 1966.
In 1974 she joined the department of art at Berkeley, where, said Christopher Brown, the chairman of the department, she consistently won the highest rating as a teacher from faculty members and students.
She studied at the New England Conservatory of Music and privately in New York, and won the 1940 Metropolitan Opera radio auditions, which led to her company debut.
Jailed as a Suffragist
        As a suffragist before women won the right to vote, she was twice jailed.
She also designed children's clothing and won four Fashion Academy gold medals.
"
        Eve Arden won her first theatrical accolade in 1935 when she was featured with Jimmy Savo in "Parade.
Trying to get away from that stereotype, she returned to Broadway and won praise for her featured roles in the Kern-Hammerstein musical "Very Warm for May" in 1939, the revue "Two for the Show" in 1940 and Cole Porter's "Let's Face It" in 1941, in which she appeared with Danny Kaye.

        Lisa Kirk, a cabaret performer who won Broadway acclaim in the late 1940's singing "The Gentleman Is a Dope" in the musical "Allegro" and "Always True to You (In My Fashion)" in "Kiss Me, Kate," died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Three of her television scripts won awards from the Writers Guild of America: "The Neon Ceiling" (1971), about a woman and her daughter, who stop at a desert diner and meet its alcoholic manager; "Sunshine" (1973), about a dying young woman who leaves audio tapes for the 3-year-old daughter who might otherwise forget her, and a sequel, "Christmas Sunshine" (1977).
Emmy Nominations and a Prize
        "Plain Speaking," Mrs. Sobieski's 1976 adaptation of Merle Miller's book about Harry S. Truman, won Emmy nominations for best script and best program, and a best-actor award for Ed Flanders.
She won critical praise for her attention to the language and life style of the periods she wrote about, but she was frequently faulted for reworking familiar ground.
A native of Mineola, L.I., she was a graduate of Newton College of the Sacred Heart in Newton, Mass., where she won a two-year scholarship to Sophia University in Tokyo.
After the verdict, an exuberant Mrs. Gabel held hands with her daughter outside the courthouse and shouted, "Hooray, we won!
She won praise in two 1940 melodramas -- "The House Across the Bay" and "The Man I Married" -- and came into her own in three film noir thrillers directed by Fritz Lang: as a Cockney prostitute in "Man Hunt" (1941), a mysterious model in "The Woman in the Window" (1944) and a vulgar blackmailer in "Scarlet Street" (1946).
She also won praise as a shrewish, cuckolding wife in Zoltan Korda's "Macomber Affair" (1947), as a deceitful wife in Jean Renoir's "Woman on the Beach" (1947) and as a tormented blackmail victim in Max Ophuls's "Reckless Moment" (1949).
She won the United States singles title again in 1938, 1939 and 1940 and the women's singles at Wimbledon in 1939.
With Sarah Palfrey Fabyan she won the United States women's doubles championships from 1937 through 1940 and the mixed-doubles title with Gene Mako in 1936, with Donald Budge in 1938, with Harry Hopman in 1939 and with Bobby Riggs in 1940.
At Wimbledon, she also won the women's doubles in 1938 and 1939 with Mrs. Fabyan and the mixed doubles with Budge in 1937 and 1938 and with Riggs in 1939.
In 1939, she had won the singles, women's doubles and mixed doubles at both Forest Hills and Wimbledon and in 1940 she was undefeated.

        Anne Revere, an actress who won acclaim for her screen portrayals of wise, protective motherly characters until her career was cut short by the 1950's Communist blacklist, died yesterday at her home in Locust Valley, L.I.
The stately, spirited character actress won a 1945 Academy Award as the mother of Elizabeth Taylor in "National Velvet.
She won a 1960 Tony Award for portraying a rigid spinster opposite Maureen Stapleton and Jason Robards in Lillian Hellman's drama "Toys in the Attic.
"
        In Ms. Chusmir's three-year tenure as executive editor, The Herald won two Pulitzer Prizes.
