At 14, she won the Junior Grass Court Doubles in 1927 and she began dominating both singles and doubles junior events the following year.
They won the National Women's Pair Championship in Phoenix in March, and, with others, the National Women's Knockout Team Championship in Atlanta in August.
Mrs. Perlstein won many regional titles and was second in the National Women's Teams in 1976.
She also published "How Shakespeare Won the West," a study of Shakespearean stage productions during the Gold Rush, and "Dictionary of Gold Rush Performers, " among other books.
Dr. Oppenheimer also won the Wilbur Cross Medal from the Yale Graduate Alumni Association.
The purity of her voice and her masterly technique immediately won them over, and within a year she was the star of her own program and the most popular female mariachi singer in Mexico.
She won three Guggenheim Fellowships and a number of literary awards, including  the Katherine Mansfield Prize, in 1961.
Her first collection, "Tales From Bective Bridge," won the James Tate Black Memorial Prize in 1942 and helped establish her career.
Three times a week until about two years ago, and more recently on a twice-weekly schedule, Mrs. Bombeck did what she had done since 1964: sifted greasy ovens, voracious washing machines, sibling rivalry and the predilections  of couch-potato spouses for the nuggets of mirth that won her the devotion of readers who followed her 500- to 600-word columns in some 600 newspapers.
Directed by Terry Zwigoff, it won the top prize for documentaries at the 1995 Sundance Film Festival.
Miss McLean, whose scores of credits included "All About Eve," "12 O'Clock High," "The Robe" and "Tobacco Road," won an Academy Award in 1944 for her work  on the documentary "Wilson," a biography of Woodrow Wilson.
She won the best actress Oscar for "Mrs. Miniver," in which she superbly symbolized  the spirit and virtue of a British homemaker in wartime.
Nonetheless, in her Broadway debut in 1958, Miss Garson won acclaim in a comedy, succeeding Rosalind Russell as the devil-may-care "Auntie Mame.
She received full scholarships from a county  school and from the University of London, where she won honors studying French and 18th-century literature in an accelerated course, with secretarial classes for a backup.
Miss McLean, whose scores of credits included "All About Eve," "12 O'Clock High," "The Robe" and "Tobacco Road," won an Academy Award in 1944 for her work  on the documentary "Wilson," a biography of Woodrow Wilson.
Although she won wide popularity with her portrayal of the villainous Carmen Delia in the Spanish-language television soap opera "Angelica, Mi Vida" ("Angelica, My Life"), Ms. Payan, who came to New York in 1956 and had appeared  in Spanish-language theatrical productions in New York and elsewhere, had already moved onto a broader stage by the time she made her startling announcement in 1993.
Under Ms. Nichols's leadership, the radio station became an important contributor to the city's cultural life and a major producer of programs for National Public Radio, including "Kids America," a live call-in program for children that won several broadcasting awards.
Her hoop-skirted heroines tended to be too unremittingly beautiful, her handsome heroes a shade too dashing and their problems a bit too easily solved for Ms. Price to have won serious literary acclaim.
Abandoning soap operas, she began turning out inspirational books -- among them "Discoveries," "Beloved World" and "The Eugenia Price Treasury of Faith" -- that won her a wide following long before she turned to fiction.
In 1991, Mrs. Auchincloss served on the jury for the competition for the design of the cathedral's new wing, which was won by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava.

        Jo Van Fleet, who won an Academy Award, a Tony Award and other honors for her portrayal of proud, stoical women, died yesterday at Jamaica Hospital in Queens.
For her first screen appearance in 1955, she won an Academy Award as best supporting actress for playing James Dean's mother in Elia Kazan's film "East of Eden.
" Two years later, she won a Tony Award as best featured actress for her role as the irritable Jessie Mae Watts in Horton Foote's "Trip to Bountiful.
But it was as a highly accomplished horsewoman, one who could take the lead in an organization that prides itself on being the nation's fastest hunt ("Keep  up or go home" is one of its official rules), that she won greatest acclaim.
A pre-eminent American singer who brought a classic sense of musical proportion and balance to everything she touched, Miss Fitzgerald won the sobriquet "first lady of song" and earned the unqualified admiration of most of  her peers.
She won first prize.
Ms. Ahern won three tournaments during her career on the Ladies Professional Golf Association Tour, including the 1972 L.P.G.A.
She also won the 1970 Southgate Open and the 1972 George Washington Classic.
An accomplished amateur who won the 1964 Texas Public Links Championship at the age of 15, Ms. Ahern was just 17 years old when she joined the L.P.G.A.
As a senior in Dallas, she also won the Texas Amateur and the Texas Junior and was runner-up in the United States Golf Association Junior Amateur.
Championship, and then won the tournament the next year at Pleasant Valley Country Club.
In 1954, she was appointed Acting Justice of the City Court, another first for a woman, and won election to the office the next year.
In 1956 she won a scholarship to study art history in Munich, and it was there that she became interested in Kandinsky's life and work.

        Jessica Mitford, whose book "The American Way of Death" won her enormous popularity as an irreverent muckraker and witty polemicist, died yesterday at her home in Oakland, Calif. She was 78.
Her second effort, "Daughters and Rebels," an autobiography, was published in 1960 and won praise from the critics.
Her greatest triumph was playing a runaway heiress opposite Clark Gable's cynical reporter in Frank Capra's film comedy "It Happened One Night," a performance that won her an Academy Award as best actress in 1934.
"
        Miss Colbert's most noteworthy stage vehicles included "The Barker" (1927), a box-office hit in which she played an alluring snake charmer; Eugene O'Neill's "Dynamo," which was produced by the Theater Guild in 1929 and won her considerable prestige, although it was not a popular success, and the fluffy comedy "The Marriage-Go-Round," a smash hit that opened in 1958 co-starring Charles Boyer, with whom she had also appeared in such films as "Private Worlds" (1935) and "Tovarich" (1937).
"
        When Oscar time rolled around, the film won the five top awards: best picture, best writer, best director, best actor and best actress.
She won a tight race in a party primary to run for the United States Senate in 1964 but then lost the election by 50,000 votes to the Republican incumbent,  Senator Hugh Scott.
She won election on her own the next year, was re-elected in 1983, became a senior judge a year later and retired from the bench in 1993.
In 1970 Mrs. Brier won the World Mixed Pairs Championship in Stockholm.
She won two national titles, the Open Pairs in 1955 and Mixed Teams in 1965, and was runner-up three times.
She won many regional titles.
As a student, she won prizes both as a pianist and for her compositions, and her ambition at first was to be a pianist.
'' Her performances in ''Doing Time on Maple Drive'' and on ''Northern Exposure'' won her Emmy nominations in 1992 and 1993.
' ''
        Although she won enthusiastic praise for both her acting and her dancing in ''Can-Can,'' Miss Prowse was two decades late for the era of the big Hollywood musical and she appeared in only a few, largely forgettable movies, among them, ''The Second Time Around,'' with Debbie Reynolds; ''Who Killed Teddy Bear?
She made a virtual career touring in ''Mame' and won such acclaim for her Las Vegas performance in ''Sweet Charity,'' in 1966, that the show was taken to London, where Miss Prowse won the British equivalent of a Tony Award.
She made a virtual career touring in ''Mame' and won such acclaim for her Las Vegas performance in ''Sweet Charity,'' in 1966, that the show was taken to London, where Miss Prowse won the British equivalent of a Tony Award.
' ''
        Although she won enthusiastic praise for both her acting and her dancing in ''Can-Can,'' Miss Prowse was two decades late for the era of the big Hollywood musical and she appeared in only a few, largely forgettable movies, among them, ''The Second Time Around,'' with Debbie Reynolds; ''Who Killed Teddy Bear?
She made a virtual career touring in ''Mame' and won such acclaim for her Las Vegas performance in ''Sweet Charity,'' in 1966, that the show was taken to London, where Miss Prowse won the British equivalent of a Tony Award.
She made a virtual career touring in ''Mame' and won such acclaim for her Las Vegas performance in ''Sweet Charity,'' in 1966, that the show was taken to London, where Miss Prowse won the British equivalent of a Tony Award.
In 1992 she won the Louis Delluc Prize for directing ''Le Petit Prince a Dit'' (''The Little Prince Said'').
Although her efforts won wide praise, there were some rumblings that Mrs. Noyce was becoming too big a factor in the Portland economy and she had recently announced that she had no further designs on downtown property.
''
        Miss Lamour appeared in seven of the road pictures, in which she was always the exotic but demure girl invariably won by a crooning Mr. Crosby at the expense of a more comedic Mr. Hope.
After she won the 1931 Miss New Orleans beauty contest, she and her mother moved to Chicago, where  Miss Lamour earned $17 a week as an elevator operator for the Marshall Field department store on State Street.
In 1987, she won the first Marie Curie Award from the American Association of Women Radiologists.
''
        Miss Lamour appeared in seven of the road pictures, in which she was always the exotic but demure girl invariably won by a crooning Mr. Crosby at the expense of a more comedic Mr. Hope.
She won the 1931 Miss New Orleans beauty contest, and she and her mother moved to Chicago, where  Miss Lamour earned $17 a week as an elevator operator for the Marshall Field department store on State Street.

        Beryl Reid, the versatile British character actress who won a Tony Award in 1967 for her performance in ''The Killing of Sister George'' and was one of the most popular stars on the London stage and on British television, died on Sunday.
Subsequently, she won more admirers in the United States and London through television, especially from her role opposite Alec Guinness in the dramatizations of John le Carre's ''Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy'' and ''Smiley's People.
''The Court of the Stone Children'' (1973), a complex tale involving ghostly apparitions in modern-day San Francisco, won her a National Book Award.
Within two years, she had won a contract from Universal and was well on her way to becoming one of the most famous women in America, appearing first in Hoot Gibson westerns and the like and then in leading roles opposite Reginald Denny, especially after the director William Seitzer persuaded her to bob and bleach her long brown hair.

        Grace E. Bessay, who won a prolonged legal struggle to keep the Federal Government from ousting her from a two-room summer shanty on Cape Cod, died on Oct. 10 in Cambridge, Mass.
In 1964 and 1970, she won the McKenney Trophy, awarded for winning the most points in a calendar year.In 1964, she set a points record.
In national competition, she won the Life Master Pairs in 1966 and five other titles: the Women's Teams in 1964 and 1968; the Women's Pairs in 1968 and 1982, and the Life Master Women's Pairs in 1963.
Among her books are ''While the Patient Slept'' (her second novel, which won the $5,000 Scotland Yard Prize in 1930), ''Never Look Back,'' ''Call After Midnight,'' ''Run Scared,'' ''Speak No Evil'' and ''With This Ring.
Mr. Dickerson, who won major legal battles involving housing segregation in Chicago, took her along as a child when he visited whites-only restaurants, was refused service and sued their owners.
She did, and won.
A tireless campaigner who accompanied herself on the accordion while singing her own campaign song in a lilting soprano, she stunned the Minnesota political establishment when she won the 1954 Congressional election, and when she got to Washington she stunned Congress even more.
Despite her lack of seniority, Mrs. Knutson promptly won a place on the House Agriculture Committee.
Judge Moskowitz first won election to the State Supreme Court in 1982 and was assigned to Criminal Term, Kings County.
Its final scene, with close-ups of Miss Cherrill, has won special praise.
She won acclaim in 1927 for her story ''Persephone'' and again in 1934 for ''The Horse,'' a strange, powerful novella.
She also admitted that her strong personality won her her share of enemies.
This year, despite a determined Republican effort, Democrats won an additional seat in the Assembly and will hold 96 of its 150 seats when the new session begins in January.
Ms. Dugan, who won her most recent election with 70 percent of the vote as the candidate of the Democratic and Liberal parties, represented the 52d District, which includes not only Carroll Gardens, but also Bay Ridge, Cobble Hill, Red Hook, Sunset Park, Brooklyn Heights and Boerum Hill.
Peggy Wattles grew up in Buffalo and graduated from Bennett Junior College in Millbrook, N.Y. She was an outstanding amateur golfer who won New York State championships in the 1930's and twice reached the quarterfinals of the United States Women's National Golf Tournament.
In 1979, she won a Matrix leadership award from Women in Communications.
In her career at The Post, from 1945 to 1986, she  also won local Newspaper Guild Page One and New York Newswomen's Club awards.
A consummate politician from her earliest days in the Texas Legislature, Ms. Jordan won a seat on the House Judiciary Committee though only  a freshman by importuning her political mentor and friend, former President Lyndon B. Johnson, to pull some strings.
" (1983), she won critical praise for "Prairie Songs" (1985), about a pioneer woman who goes mad after moving from New York to the plains of Nebraska.
It won the Prix Renaudot, one of several French literary awards her works received.
"
        Her first novel, "Les Patapharis," which appeared in France in 1966 and was later published in English as "The Patapharis Affair," won the Prix Femina and was praised by Martin Levin in The New York Times Book Review as a "delicately shadowed work of art.
She won a point for the United States, which defeated Britain 5 1/2 to 3 1/2 in Manchester, Mass.
Miss Clark, the widow of Robert Penn Warren, was a master stylist whose works won critical acclaim and inspired a devoted private following.
Nor is "The Oysters of Locmariaquer," a somewhat similar book that used oystering in Brittany as a springboard to an excursion through history and culture, and won the 1964 National Book Award for  arts and letters.
