Her performance as an elderly artist in Mr. Fugard's "Road to Mecca" won her awards in South Africa, London and New York.
"
        Her fiery portrait of a barbarian woman who takes revenge on Jason, the unfaithful father of her two sons, by murdering them won the actress an honored niche in theater history.
Mrs. Everett was among the first female lawyers in North Carolina and earned several distinctions, scoring highest on her bar examination in 1920 and becoming the first woman to argue an appeal in her state's highest court, a case she won.
She studied at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia and the Fontainbleau in France and won fellowships at the Juilliard School.
"
        In 1949 she won raves for starring in the lead of "Regina," the musical version of "The Little Foxes.
She studied at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia and the Fontainbleau in France and won fellowships at the Juilliard School.
"
        In 1949 she won raves for starring in the lead of "Regina," the musical version of "The Little Foxes.
During her tenure, the Red Sox won the American League East three times, but in their only World Series appearance, lost to the Mets in 1986.

        Sandy Dennis, who as a young actress in the 1960's entranced Broadway and Hollywood with performances that won her two Tony awards and an Academy Award, died on Monday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 54 years old
        Although the exact cause of her death was not known, Ms. Dennis had been fighting a long battle with cancer, said Doris Elliott, a longtime friend.
'Engagingly Natural'
        After making her movie debut in 1961 in a supporting role in "Splendor in the Grass," she won a Tony award in 1963 for her performance, as a social worker, opposite Jason Robards in "A Thousand Clowns," and a year later, she won another Tony as the slightly off-beat mistress of a tycoon, played by Gene Hackman, in "Any Wednesday.
'Engagingly Natural'
        After making her movie debut in 1961 in a supporting role in "Splendor in the Grass," she won a Tony award in 1963 for her performance, as a social worker, opposite Jason Robards in "A Thousand Clowns," and a year later, she won another Tony as the slightly off-beat mistress of a tycoon, played by Gene Hackman, in "Any Wednesday.
"
        Then, in 1966, she won an Academy Award for best supporting actress for her portrayal of Honey, the mousy, scared-of-her-own-shadow half of a young faculty couple alternately seduced and brow-beaten by Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton in Edward Albee's scalding "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf.
"
        Her performance won the New York Film Critics' award and the Moscow Film Festival prize for best actress.
The award won by Ms. Dennis for her 1967 performance in "Up the Down Staircase" was also misidentified.
Her script for "Lili" was nominated for an Academy Award in 1953 and won Cannes Film Festival and Writers Guild of America prizes and the Hollywood Foreign Press Association's Golden Globe award.
Her script for "Lili" was nominated for an Academy Award in 1953 and won Cannes Film Festival and Writers Guild of America prizes and the Hollywood Foreign Press Association's Golden Globe award.

        Sandy Dennis, who as a young actress in the 1960's entranced Broadway and Hollywood with performances that won her two Tony Awards and an Academy Award, died on Monday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 54 years old.
Successive Tonys
        After making her movie debut in 1961 in a supporting role in "Splendor in the Grass," she won a Tony Award in 1963 for her performance on Broadway, opposite Jason Robards, as a social worker in "A Thousand Clowns.
" A year later she won another Tony as the slightly offbeat mistress of a tycoon, played by Gene Hackman, in "Any Wednesday.
"
        Then in 1966, she won an Academy Award as best supporting actress for her portrayal of Honey, the mousy, scared-of-her-own-shadow half of a young faculty couple alternately seduced and browbeaten by Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton in Edward Albee's scalding "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf.
"
        Her performance won the Moscow Film Festival prize for best actress.
Miss Lewis, who was a self-taught artist, won many awards, including the New Mexico Governor's Award in 1983.
At the age of 21 she won Mademoiselle magazine's 1947 fiction award for a short story, and soon afterward Doubleday published her only novel, "Strike for the Heart," about a young woman's soul-searching.
In 1961, she won the painting prize at the prestigious Sao Paulo Bienal in Brazil.
Her first published book of poems, "Family Circle" (Yale University, 1946) won Yale's Younger Poets Prize, and in 1949 she won a Collier's prize for fiction.
Her first published book of poems, "Family Circle" (Yale University, 1946) won Yale's Younger Poets Prize, and in 1949 she won a Collier's prize for fiction.
She was the youngest member of the Austrian women's team that won the European title in 1935 and 1936 and the world title in 1937.
In 1951 she returned to international competition as a member of the British women's team and won another European Women's Championship, a triumph she was to repeat six more times.
They won the first World Women's Pairs Championship in Cannes, France, in 1962, and repeated that success in Las Palmas in the Canary Islands in 1974, a double achievement that has never been matched.
She won another title at the World Team Olympiad in New York in 1964.
Her most renowned achievement was a 1961 victory in Britain's premier bridge event, the Gold Cup, an event that few women have won.
At the age of 5, Miss Picon won a teddy bear in a burlesque-house amateur program.
Although in the movie's offstage scenes her 5-foot-5-inch frame seemed a bit blowzy and her manner a bit too Teutonic, her portrayal of Lola-Lola, who degrades and destroys an infatuated elderly professor (Emil Jannings), won her a Hollywood contract.
Soon after, she won small roles on the stage and in German films.
In the late 1920's, Miss Dietrich won increasingly important leading roles on the German stage and was likened in the German press to Greta Garbo.
She was also the owner of the Vamarie, a two-masted trans-Atlantic sailing yacht that won races before she presented it to the United States Naval Academy.
She was also an adviser in trials that won $20 million in judgments against the Ku Klux Klan, the White Aryan Resistance Group and skinheads.
Won Mayoral Award 3 Times
        In 1988, Leonard W. Stern, executive director of the National Assembly, a coalition of charitable organizations, called her "the ultimate volunteer.
Three times she won the Mayoral Award for Outstanding Voluntary Service.
She was also an adviser in trials that won $20 million in judgments against the Ku Klux Klan, the White Aryan Resistance Group and skinheads.
Her homestyle Greek taverna recipes won praise from the food critic Craig Claiborne.
Her homestyle Greek taverna recipes won praise from the food critic Craig Claiborne.
As Kitty Godfree, she won her second Wimbledon title in 1926, beating Lili de Alvarez of Spain, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3.
Mrs. Godfree also won five Grnd Slam doubles championships, all with different partners.
She won the Wimbledon mixed-doubles titles in 1924 with J. Brian Gilbert, defeating her future husband and Dorothy Shepherd Barron in the final.
During her tennis career, she also won five Olympic medals: one gold, two silver and two bronze.

        Caroline Miller Ray, whose first novel won the 1934 Pulitzer Prize for literature, died on Sunday at her home in Waynesville, N.C. She was 88 years old.
Her efforts won awards from the City Bar Association in New York and Community Trust.
Mrs. Armstrong won many industry awards for her films, which included a range of educational and informational videos, public-service announcements and video-news releases.
A production company, it made more than 100 documentaries, some of which won awards, on subjects such as psychiatric illnesses, drug abuse, juvenile delinquency and hospice care.
Elected to the Senate in 1956, she served for six years and won praise as the author of a law on family education enacted in Peru in 1957.
Her book "In the Company of Educated Women: A History of Women and Higher Education in America" (Yale University Press, 1985) won the Frederick W. Ness book award.
Her work won national recognition when Lady Bird Johnson invited her to be guest of honor at the White House.
"
        Miss Sale also won acclaim for her one-woman show, "Americana Sketches," in which she drew upon her upbringing in Urbana, Ill., to explore the foibles and humor of small town-America.
Her efforts won the American Thyroid Association's Distinguished Service Award and the United Cerebral Palsy Award for Research.
Her stage performances won critical praise.
Her stage performances won critical praise.
The entire work won the Pulitzer Prize for biography in 1958 and Columbia University's Loubat Prize the same year.
Watchdog of Helsinki Accords
        On her substantive record, she won the respect of her political peers, sometimes grudgingly, for her advocacy on a wide variety of issues, including civil rights, peace in Vietnam, aid for asbestos victims, help for the poor, prison reform, strip-mining controls, reduction of military programs, urban renewal, campaign spending limits, gun control and restrictions on capital punishment.
Fighting for bathrooms for migrant workers won her the nickname of Outhouse Millie.
She first ran and won a seat in the State Legislature at the age of 59 and in Congress at 64.
Winning Literary Acclaim
        The first of the series was "The Borrowers," which won the Library Association Carnegie Medal in England as the outstanding children's book of 1952.
Dr. McClintock made this discovery nearly 40 years before she won the Nobel Prize, at a time when genetics was still so rudimentary that her ideas baffled other scientists and were often dismissed outright or ignored.
Ms. Colwin's writing won praise for its intelligence, wit and style.
In 1987 Ms. Colwin won a Guggenheim fellowship.
Ms. Colwin's writing won praise for its intelligence, wit and style.
In 1987 Ms. Colwin won a Guggenheim fellowship.
Her recent shows at the Robert Miller Gallery in New York City won wide praise, and the Museum of Modern Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Guggenheim Museum and the National Gallery were among the museums that had recently bought major works of hers.
Won a Traveling Fellowship
        Thanks to the $2,000 that came with an Edward L. Ryerson traveling fellowship from the institute, she spent a year in France in 1948-49, working first in Paris and later in Le Lavandou in Provence.
They won the Goldman Pairs in 1957, making them the only married couple to win in the 64-year history of the event; they also won the Master Mixed Team Championship in 1965.
They won the Goldman Pairs in 1957, making them the only married couple to win in the 64-year history of the event; they also won the Master Mixed Team Championship in 1965.
She won three other national titles: the Women's Teams in 1956 and 1969 and the Life Master Women's Pairs in 1965.
A collection of essays, "A Burst of Light," won an American Book Award in 1989.
A first marriage, to Dr. Richard Jones of Chicago, ended in divorce in 1947; subsequently Ms. Jones came to New York City to make a career as an actress and dancer, and won her first role on Broadway in 1952 in the musical "Buttrio Square," starring Billy Gilbert.
As a result of the success of her dance, "The Eccentricities of Davy Crockett," Miss Holm was invited to choreograph "Kiss Me, Kate" in 1948 and won a New York Drama Critics Award.
It won acclaim as a modern classic, enough to encourage her to leave her teaching position and devote more of her time to writing.
"Molly's Pilgrim" (1983) is the story of a Jewish immigrant girl who enhances the meaning of Thanksgiving for her entire third-grade class; a movie version won an Academy Award in 1986 in the short-subject category.
She eventually won international recognition for her efforts, and President Ronald Reagan saluted her as an "American heroine" in his 1985 State of the Union address.
Throughout the Beame and Koch administrations, Hale House won waivers from state regulations barring group nurseries for children under the age of 5.
In the Group Theater, Miss Adler won high praise for performances in such realistic dramas as "Success Story" by John Howard Lawson and two seminal Clifford Odets plays, "Awake and Sing!
She won two O. Henry Memorial Awards for short-story writing, one for the title story of that 1936 collection and one for "Defeat" in 1941.
She also won a Guggenhiem Fellowship in 1934.

        Helen Callaghan Candaele St. Aubin, the speedy outfielder whose swing won one batting title and inspired two movies about the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, died Tuesday night at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif., at age 69.
