Her agency also represented authors like Richard Rhodes, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1988 as well as a 1987 National Book Award for ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb,'' and David Garrow, whose ''Bearing the Cross'' won a Pulitzer in 1987.
Her agency also represented authors like Richard Rhodes, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1988 as well as a 1987 National Book Award for ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb,'' and David Garrow, whose ''Bearing the Cross'' won a Pulitzer in 1987.
Mrs. Owings was the founder and first president of Friends of the Sea Otter and won a battle to end the bounty-hunting of mountain lions in her state.
Her 1975 album, ''Frances Sings for George and Ira,'' won wide acclaim, and after a granddaughter suggested she get vocal training, she began a long-deferred professional career, singing Gershwin tunes at the Lambs Club and elsewhere until two years ago.
''
        Mrs. Durr won applause for her autobiography, ''Outside the Magic Circle'' (University of Alabama, 1985)'' edited by Hollinger F. Barnard.
Born on May 14, 1939, in New York, Ms. Grillo first won attention as a singer with the Brooklyn Opera Company in the early 1960's.
It lost the original case in the Old Bailey but won on appeal two years later after a successful argument by a young John Mortimer.
When Michael Ondaatje -- who by then was published by another company -- won the Booker Prize for ''The English Patient'' in 1992, he publicly thanked her for helping to start his career.
The note on which the book concludes, however, is one of reconciliation, and of a painfully won serenity.
4 on Billboard's singles chart and won her her first Grammy nomination.
The country-soul ballad ''Son of a Preacher Man,'' her Top 10 hit from 1969, won her new respect and her second Grammy nomination after being prominently featured in the 1994 movie ''Pulp Fiction.
Her fame won her roles in jungle films like ''Swamp Woman'' (1941) and touring stage productions like ''White Cargo,'' in which she sashayed onstage one night in Boston, playing a native girl under a light layer of brown powder and not much more.
After graduating from the McTyeire School for Girls in Shanghai in 1918, she won a scholarship to Wellesley College in Wellesley, Mass., where she earned a degree in physical education in 1924.
But it won awards, including two National Magazine Awards in 1993.
Her sparkling stage personality won her many fans.
''The Little Train That Won a Medal'' was published in 1947 and has sold more than three million copies.

        Estelle Sapir, a Holocaust survivor who won a rare recovery of the family funds she had sought for half a century from a Swiss bank, died on Tuesday at her home in Far Rockaway, Queens.
'' As a writer, she won praise for the accuracy and readability of her biographies, which included ''Millais and the Ruskins'' (1968).
She also won a Fulbright Award for vocal studies in Italy.
She also won several competitions, including the international contest for opera singers in Lausanne, Switzerland, and the Marian Anderson Scholarship Fund Auditions in New York.
Because the 100-meter race was the first of five women's track and field events at the 1928 Games, Robinson had won the first gold medal handed out in her sport.
After Robinson won the gold, Douglas MacArthur, then the president of the American Olympic Committee, presented her with a small gold charm shaped like the world.
When she won the Geneva International Competition in 1939, the prize was to have included performances in Europe.
''
        Publication of the Morgan biography, which won the California Book Award Silver Medal in 1989, led Ms. Boutelle to embark on a new career as a lecturer and preservationist of historic architecture.
They won the suit in 1969, removing the last legal hurdle to the desegregation of Mississippi's public schools.
In 1987, after the name of the agency had been changed to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the utilities won the right to request rate increases that would cover up to 50 percent of the costs of plants under construction.
During her tenure the magazine won four National Magazine Awards, including two for general excellence, in 1981 and 1991, and one in the public interest category in 1992, for a series conceived by Mrs. Whitney on the availability and safety of abortions in America.
At 14, she broke the Austrian records for the 100-meter and 400-meter freestyles and won the Austrian championships at those distances.
In 1939, she moved to England, and that year she won the last British long-distance championship swim in the Thames.
'' They won her a contract with Paramount Pictures and opened her path to fame.
Although she realized her early dream of designing costumes for ballet, she also designed for scores of Broadway shows, won Tony Awards for ''Fiddler on the Roof'' (1964), ''Cabaret'' (1966) and ''Sweet Charity'' (1985), along with many other prizes.
''
        Her 1996 collection of 35 short stories, ''Women in Their Beds,'' received critical acclaim and won the 1997 National Book Critics Circle Award, the PEN/Faulkner Fiction Prize and the Rae Award for the Short Story.
Ms. Raskin won praise for ''Hot Flashes,'' which is about three middle-aged women who come together to mourn and commemorate the death of a female friend.
She won an Emmy Award for a television performance of poems from her second book of verse, ''Some One Sweet Angel Chile,'' which was another National Book Award nominee.
''Working Cotton,'' a 1992 children's tale, won an American Library Association Caldecott Award and a Coretta Scott King Book Award, and was listed among the best books of 1992 by Parents magazine.
In the early 1950's, Ms. Fleming won the Queen's Prize, in England, as well as the Munich International Competition.

        Kim Perrot, the tiny floor leader of the Houston Comets team that has won the first two Women's National Basketball Association championships, died here today.
''
        Ali won the bout on a unanimous decision, Mrs. Shain giving him 9 of the 15 rounds and feeling elated that she had reached the pinnacle of her calling, ''like when an opera singer sings at the Met.
She won the prize when she headed the Department of Arts and Crafts in the Israel's Industry and Trade Ministry.
She also won the Dizengoff Prize and awards from Yad Vashem and the Museum of Modern Art.
''
        Those books included Mr. Bellow's first two novels, ''Dangling Man'' and ''The Victim''; Dr. Seuss's first two books, ''And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street'' and ''The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins,'' and a score of books by Ms. Oates, including the novel ''Them,'' which won the National Book Award.

        Sigrid de Lima, a writer whose early works won praise but who withdrew from public life in midcareer, died on Sunday at a hospital in Nyack, N.Y. She was 77 and lived in Valley Cottage, N.Y.
Her slim body of work won her a Prix de Rome in 1953, with a fellowship in literature at the American Academy of Arts and Letters in Rome.
The honors she won included an award for ''distinguished service to mathematics'' from the mathematical association.
Ms. Webster did not restart her career until 1982, when she toured Europe for the first time; her hollering voice and her charismatic innuendo-laden performances won her fans, and her second act had begun.
But Ms. Knight won praise from both conservatives and liberals for running a highly efficient agency at a time when Americans were traveling overseas in previously unimaginable numbers.
''She was a wise and wild woman, who definitely ran with the British equivalent of wolves,'' said Ms. Curott, who in 1985 won the case allowing witch clergy to perform weddings in New York City.
      
Finally, in 1946, at 25, she became a pupil of Dupre at the Paris Conservatory, where she won the first prize in organ.
She won the job, but had to quit when her charade was discovered.
Ms. Raileanu, who was known as Zina, was born in Romania in 1960 and came to the United States in 1978 as part of a group of teenagers who had won musical competitions and were allowed to study abroad.
In recent years she appeared Off Broadway in productions with the Signature Theater Company and most recently with the Women's Project, where she won praise this spring for her work in Joan Vail Thorne's play ''Exact Center of the Universe.
In 1990 she participated in the International Choreographers Workshop of the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C., and in 1992 she founded the South Asian Dance Youth Company, which won her the London Dance and Performance Award.
In 1962, she bought her first racehorse, a filly named Calabrea, who won her first race and paid $72 to win.
She came into prominence in 1992, when she won five starts.
She won a Tony Award for best actress in 1993 with her role as a ditsy matron in the Broadway production of ''The Sisters Rosensweig.
Her titles there included Mr. Heller's fictional treatment of the life of Rembrandt, ''Picture This'' (1988);  Ms. Tan's breakthrough novel, ''The Joy Luck Club'' (1989); and Mr. Barthelme's collection ''60 Stories'' (1981), which won the PEN/Faulkner fiction award.
