She died of influenza, said her nephew, George Lightfoot Singleton of Birmingham, Ala.
        Miss Singleton joined CBS Radio, then in its infancy, in 1929, after working for the Federal Railroad Administration during World War I.
During the early years of World War II, she hid in France and Luxembourg but was able to leave in 1942 when her husband, who had escaped to Brazil, obtained a performer's visa for her.
During World War II she worked as a mathematician at Columbia University's Statistical Research Group, a secret project to aid the military.
During World War II, she worked for the Office of War Information, writing instruction manuals on sonar gear for the United States Navy.
Her mother was a physicist; her father, Eugene, worked for the Socony Oil Company, and the family followed him around the world to England, Egypt, Mexico, New Zealand, Texas, Europe and Morocco.
She had been in the Navy, as an active-duty officer or a reservist, since World War II, and received a special Presidential appointment to the rank of rear admiral in 1983.
The company was formed by Dr. John W. Mauchly and J. Presper Eckert, who in 1946 had developed one of the world's first electronic computers, ENIAC, at the University of Pennsylvania.
She was also active in protests at the 1964 World's Fair in Flushing Meadows, asserting that American Indians and their history were being ignored by the international event being held on their ancestral lands.
She recently completed a film script, "My Mother's Lover," about her life in Europe during World War II.
After graduating from the University of North Carolina, she taught school and worked at the Federal Research Information Bureau in Washington during World War I.
Like her husband, who saw his team win three pennants but never a World Series championship, Mrs. Yawkey, too, was denied the ultimate goal.
During her tenure, the Red Sox won the American League East three times, but in their only World Series appearance, lost to the Mets in 1986.
During World War II, she was attached to the Office of Strategic Services in Paris, London and Germany.
Recently she worked on marketing for the Franklin Park Zoo in Boston, Art News magazine and World Paper, an international news supplement for other publications.
Mrs. Tang was born in Paris, the daughter of Kuangson Young, a Nationalist Chinese career diplomat who was executed during World War II by the Japanese in the Philippines.
Mrs. Black protested the dismissal and was widely supported in the museum world.

        Marjorie McKeown Clay, widow of Gen. Lucius D. Clay, commander of American forces in Europe after World War II, died of pneumonia on Saturday at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington.

        Myra de Haven Woodruff, a specialist in child development who helped shape the modern nursery-school system during and after World War II, died on Friday at Medford Leas, a retirement community in Medford, N.J., where she had lived for the last 20 years.
She taught French in Cooperstown, N.Y., until World War II, when Cornell University started training Army officers in Russian.
Miss Lewis's works have been exhibited in museums and embassies around the world, and are included in collections at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington and the Museum of the American Indian in New York.
They supervised folk dancing at the American Commons of the New York World's Fair in 1939.
Born Anita Counihan in Washington, on Aug. 5, 1914, Miss Colby was the eldest daughter of Bud Counihan, a cartoonist for the New York Evening World and the artist for the Betty Boop series.
Mrs. Lewis began working at Trains magazine in Milwaukee before World War II.
" During World War II she performed for the troops in an acting unit with Emlyn Williams.
Her paintings are in important museum collections throughout the world, including the Museum of Modern Art in Paris, the Tate Gallery in London, the Stedelijk in Amsterdam, and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York.
Influences on her work ranged from the winding streets of her native Lisbon and the traditional glazed tiles of Portugal to the horrors of World War II.
In 1939, at the outbreak of World War II, she and her husband, Arpad Szenes, a Hungarian-born painter she married in 1930, fled to Rio de Janeiro.
Feminism Was a Theme
        Feminism was an early and recurring theme in her works, including "After Nora Slammed the Door: the Women's Unfinished Revolution" (World, 1964) and a children's book, "Mommies At Work" (Knopf, 1960).
Among her books were "Youth in a Soundless World" (New York University, 1956), "Psychology of Deafness" (Columbia University, 1960) and "Lisa and Her Soundless World" (Human Sciences, 1974), which was chosen as the children's book of the year by the Child Study Association of America.
Among her books were "Youth in a Soundless World" (New York University, 1956), "Psychology of Deafness" (Columbia University, 1960) and "Lisa and Her Soundless World" (Human Sciences, 1974), which was chosen as the children's book of the year by the Child Study Association of America.
She was a past president of the Psychology Commission of the World Federation for the Deaf and a former board member of the American Psychological Association, the American Hearing Society, the Inter-Branch Library Association of New York and the New York League for the Hard of Hearing.
In 1934, she married a noted outdoorsman and author, Selwyn Kip Farrington Jr.
        Mrs. Farrington, under the pen name of Chisie Farrington and as an internationally known angler with seven world records to her credit, wrote "Women Can Fish" in 1951.
The book chronicled her experiences accompanying her husband on fishing trips around the world.
She was a member of the league's national board in the 1930's and headed its government and foreign affairs department when the United States entered World War II.
She was a winner of many national, international and world bridge titles and an organizer of matches, the editor of a bridge column and the author of eight books on the game.
She was the youngest member of the Austrian women's team that won the European title in 1935 and 1936 and the world title in 1937.
They won the first World Women's Pairs Championship in Cannes, France, in 1962, and repeated that success in Las Palmas in the Canary Islands in 1974, a double achievement that has never been matched.
In 1974 Mrs. Markus became the first woman ever to be named grandmaster by the World Bridge Federation, and she was the world's top-ranked player among women for the next six years.
In 1974 Mrs. Markus became the first woman ever to be named grandmaster by the World Bridge Federation, and she was the world's top-ranked player among women for the next six years.
She won another title at the World Team Olympiad in New York in 1964.
Mrs. Markus became the target of controversy when she supported two British players, Terence Reese and Boris Schapiro, who had been found guilty of cheating by the World Bridge Federation in the 1965 World Team Championships in Buenos Aires.
Mrs. Markus became the target of controversy when she supported two British players, Terence Reese and Boris Schapiro, who had been found guilty of cheating by the World Bridge Federation in the 1965 World Team Championships in Buenos Aires.
In an article in Bridge World, she wrote that the British captain, Ralph Swimer, had failed in his duties, and he sued her for libel.
"
        The world remembers Marlene Dietrich mainly as a composite of the alluring but stubbornly independent heroines she portrayed in screen classics like "The Blue Angel," a star who embodied romance, mystery and eroticism.
For many Germans, especially Berliners, Miss Dietrich calls up memories of the turbulent years between the two world wars.
She represents the golden era when this country was one of the world's great artistic and intellectual centers, when figures like Bertolt Brecht, Walter Gropius and Albert Einstein were shaking the conventional world.
She represents the golden era when this country was one of the world's great artistic and intellectual centers, when figures like Bertolt Brecht, Walter Gropius and Albert Einstein were shaking the conventional world.
Newspaper columnists described the decision as scandalous and a blow to Berlin's ambition to rejoin the ranks of the world's great cities.
After being imprisoned by the pro-Nazi regime in Hungary during World War II, Ms. Marton came to the United States, and by 1953 began to work as a theatrical agent for European writers in collaboration with her brother, George, who was living in Paris.
Among the Broadway shows she sent around the world were "Man of La Mancha," "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," "Same Time, Next Year," "Agnes of God" and the Pulitzer Prize-winning " 'Night, Mother.
Ms. Marton came to public attention in 1985 when she represented the estate of a young Hungarian woman who joined the British Army in World War II and parachuted into Yugoslavia to help rescue downed British fliers and Jews from the Nazis.
During World War II, Miss Palmer was a Wave captain, serving as women's reserve assistant to the Navy's director of enlisted personnel.
She studied ballet at the School of American Ballet and modern dance with Harald Kreutzberg and Hanya Holm, two leaders of the German modern dance that flourished before World War II.

        Sari Dienes, an artist whose career spanned many different media and several decades of the New York art world, died on Monday at her home in Stony Point, N.Y. She was 93 years old.
Stranded in New York at the outbreak of World War II, she made the city her home, supporting herself by teaching art.
She was the chairwoman of the National Foundation for Women Business Owners and vice president of the World Association of Women Entrepreneurs.
In World War II, she served in India and China as an intelligence agent for the United States Office of Strategic Services, then became a correspondent in China for Life magazine.
She worked briefly for the United States Board of Economic Warfare at the beginning of World War II.
Dr. Wiesner taught dance before World War II at the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Chicago.
The Dietrich image, personified by Lola-Lola, the seductive cabaret singer in top hat and silk stockings whom she portrayed in "The Blue Angel," was that of a liberated woman of the world who chose her men, earned her own living and viewed sex as a challenge.
During World War II, Miss Dietrich became somewhat of a symbol of free Germany.
Two decades later, the actress was referred to by the press as "the world's most glamorous grandmother.
"
        Miss Dietrich kept in touch with friends around the world by telephone and letter.
In World War II, she served in India and China as an intelligence agent for the United States Office of Strategic Services, then became a correspondent in China for Life magazine.
She worked briefly for the United States Board of Economic Warfare at the beginning of World War II.
Mrs. Fisher wrote of her entrance into the world: "I began in Albion, Mich., and was born there on July 3, 1908, in a heat wave.
"Episcopalians were the third world in Whittier," she said in a recent interview.
Mrs. Fisher wrote of her entrance into the world: "I began in Albion, Mich., and was born there on July 3, 1908, in a heat wave.
"Episcopalians were the third world in Whittier," she said in a recent interview.
She founded a troupe with Ramon de los Reyes in the mid-1960's and later had several companies of her own that toured throughout the world.
There are 140 Escada boutiques around the world, including a six-story shop that opened on 57th Street in New York last November.
The clothes are also sold in 1,200 specialty and department stores around the world.
Her pilot training helped her survive as a passenger aboard a Pan American World Airways plane that crashed and sank off San Juan, P.R., in 1952.
Reviewing it for The New York Times Book Review, Louis Kronenberger wrote that it had "a wonderful freshness about it; not simply the freshness of a new writer, but the freshness of a new world," and that Mrs. Ray's strength was her ability to use words to paint "a wonderful large and vital picture.
From 1937 until the end of World War II, she lectured on China and organized the first Chinese War Relief Committee in New York.
"
        Miss Parnis said when she was growing up she had no notion of the world "out there" -- the world of wealth and society.
"
        Miss Parnis said when she was growing up she had no notion of the world "out there" -- the world of wealth and society.
During World War II she worked on the staff of the U.S.O.
At the start of World War II, Miss Nirenska, who was Jewish, immigrated to England, where she gave solo recitals, choreographed musicals and entertained the troops.
The book grew from her experiences during more than a dozen trips to Europe, Latin America and other parts of the world.
Outside the genre, Ms. Baer wrote "The Self-Chosen" (Arbor House, 1982), a book about what she called "the world of the Jewish elite" in the United States since World War II.
Outside the genre, Ms. Baer wrote "The Self-Chosen" (Arbor House, 1982), a book about what she called "the world of the Jewish elite" in the United States since World War II.

        Alice Bennett Dunnington, a Government intelligence official during World War II, died on Monday at Beaumont at Bryn Mawr, a retirement home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. She was 87 years old.
Correction:  July 10, 1992, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about Alice Bennett Dunnington, a Government intelligence officer in World War II, identified a daughter incorrectly.
She began to show films on health during World War II as a program director for the Office of War Information, an information officer at the Public Health Service and, finally, chief of information for the National Institute of Mental Health.
In a review, W. H. Auden wrote, "we should be very grateful to Miss Dalven for introducing us to a world of poetry which has been closed to us" by the language barrier.
Studied Greek Jewish Group
        Dr. Dalven's special interest was the history of Jews in Greece, especially the community in Ioannina in northern Greece, most of whose members were driven out during World War II.
" Mr. Douglas rejoined the Roosevelt Administration to help direct shipping in World War II.
Her photographs revealed, Graham wrote in 1980, "the inner landscape that is a dancer's world.
" Reluctant Beginnings
        She said one of her earliest influences was her father's suggestion that his 5-year-old daughter "think of everything in the world as dancing atoms.
In a review, W. H. Auden wrote, "we should be very grateful to Miss Dalven for introducing us to a world of poetry which has been closed to us" by the language barrier.
Dr. Dalven's special interest was the history of Jews in Greece, especially the community in Ioannina in northern Greece, most of whose members were driven out during World War II.
Her 1972 book about the composer, "And Music at the Close: Stravinsky's Last Years," created a controversy in the music world by challenging previously published portraits of the artist.
A film she recorded for the World Health Organization was first shown at the United Nations on World AIDS Day in 1989 and has since been shown internationally.
A film she recorded for the World Health Organization was first shown at the United Nations on World AIDS Day in 1989 and has since been shown internationally.
" Encouraged Others
        She received thousands of letters from around the world.
She died of natural causes related to old age, said Carole Pesner, the director of Kraushaar Galleries Inc.
        Miss Kraushaar was born in Manhattan on Dec. 25, 1902, into a family of art dealers, and she spent her life in the New York art world.
Mrs. Fordyce served on many governmental committees and with health-related organizations, including the United States branch of the World Association for Psychosocial Rehabilitation, the International Council for Coordinating Cancer Research, the United States Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, the Rockefeller University Council, the Geriatric Advisory Council of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the Psychiatry Department at Columbia University.
"She was one of the top authorities in the world on thyroid," said Dr. Philip K. Bondy, the retired chairman of the department of medicine at Yale, where she did most of her work.
Dr. Man also studied the effect of nuclear radiation on thyroid functioning in survivors of the atomic bombings of Japan in World War II.
After World War II, the United Nations' Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Administration sent Miss Wilson to Algeria and Italy, where she lived in the refugee camps she administered.
Mrs. Ashworth also contributed to the World Book Encyclopedia and to the compendium "Notable American Women 1607-1950.
During World War II she worked first in England for the War Office and then in New York for the British Purchasing Commission.
For her long narrative poem "The Roundabout Cafe: Manhattan," which formed part of "Windows on Manhattan," Mrs. Merrifield received the Robert Browning Award from the Robert Browning Society and the Mason Sonnet Award from the World Order of Narrative Poets.
In New York Mrs. Levin was a founding member of the Young Israel Movement and a pioneer member of Hadassah who worked with its founder, Henrietta Szold, during World War I.
As a young woman she was a suffragette and was the first woman admitted to membership in the New York Credit Managers Association, in the World War I era.
On the stage she was a gangster's moll in "Three Men on a Horse" (1935), an inquisitive photographer in "The Philadelphia Story" (1939), a caustic writer in "My Sister Eileen" (1940), an anti-fascist teacher in "Tomorrow the World" (1943) and an exuberant gossip columnist in "Hollywood Pinafore" (1945).
When Philip K. Wrigley, the owner of the Chicago Cubs, decided to start a women's baseball league to keep up the nation's interest in the sport during World War II, Miss Green was one of several Olympettes recruited by the new league.
The Mannings were known for making their collection at their home available to students, curators and many others from around the world.
Dr. Eliot became active in the field after World War I, when the first few nursery schools with child study centers were set up in the United States.
She had planned to spend a second year in Italy and then a year in France, but returned to New York at the start of World War II.
Upon her return in 1939, Miss Kirsten made her professional concert debut in a stage show at the New York World's Fair.
In 1969 she wrote "The World of Turner, 1775-1851," an examination of the work of the artist Joseph Mallord William Turner, published by Time-Life Books.
To theatergoers, Miss Holm was known as the choreographer of musicals including Cole Porter's "Kiss Me, Kate" and "Out of This World" and Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe's "My Fair Lady" and "Camelot.
Among Miss Holm's other Broadway musicals were "Out of This World," "My Darlin' Aida" and "The Golden Apple.
The form is now widely used around the world.
One student accused Miss Adler of expecting too much of young people who "haven't gone out in the world and done all that experiencing she talks about.
For nearly a decade, she moderated the weekly show, "World of Children's Literature," on WNYC public radio, receiving the International Reading Association's media award for radio in 1982.
Mrs. Joseph became prominent here as a symbol of white opposition to the racial policies of her adopted land in the years after World War II when apartheid gained legal force.
"
        Friends say her service as an information and welfare officer in the Women's Auxiliary Air Force in World War II and a subsequent decision to become a social worker in Cape Town and Johannesburg exposed her to some of the realities of South Africa.
Her activities ranged from helping the families of conscientious objectors in World War I to supporting human-rights causes and demonstrating against United States involvement in Vietnam.
They later divorced, and in 1943 she married Baron Joseph von Franckenstein.After World War II she was a correspondent in Europe for The New Yorker for a time.

        Harriett Swenney Crowley, a retired editor who was also an administrator of American aid to third world countries, died Dec. 16 in Hendersonville, N.C. She was 79.
Early in World War II she worked for the Office of War Information.
