She soon had an opportunity to indulge her love of travel: Huxley, a grandson of the humanist Thomas Henry Huxley and a cousin of Aldous, the author, was appointed head of the Ceylon Tea Propaganda Board, a job that required him to travel around the world, encouraging people to drink tea.
During World War II, the Huxleys returned to England, settling on a pig and dairy farm in the Wiltshire countryside, where they remained the rest of their lives.
She continued to perform in clubs around the world into the 1960's and recorded for Atlantic and Vanguard Records.

        Mary Bancroft, a Boston Brahmin colleen who cut a coquettish swath through 20th-century history, bewitching men of power even as she did brilliant work as an American spy in Switzerland in World War II, died on Jan. 10 at her Fifth Avenue apartment.
But as her own 1983 book, ''Autobiography of a Spy,'' makes explicit, her wartime romance with Allen Dulles, the American spymaster who laid the groundwork for the Central Intelligence Agency with his brilliant successes in Switzerland in World War II, was as torrid as they come.
Many of the opera world's biggest stars turned up to sing at a gala concert in her honor in October.
''
        She predicted that World War III would begin in 1958 over the offshore Chinese islands of Quemoy and Matsu.
Mrs. Bouteneff was a prominent supporter of the Russian Children's Welfare Society, which was founded in Manhattan in 1926 and still assists needy, ill and orphaned children of Russian parentage all over the world.
''
        Other titles included ''Christmas Eve,'' ''The Day the Sun Danced'' and ''Wilson's World,'' a cautionary environmental tale about a boy who paints a world but must draw it over again to make it better.
''
        Other titles included ''Christmas Eve,'' ''The Day the Sun Danced'' and ''Wilson's World,'' a cautionary environmental tale about a boy who paints a world but must draw it over again to make it better.
She worked as a nurse for the underground in Nazi-occupied Warsaw during World War II and sang at clandestine concerts to raise money for war victims.
During World War II, she served for three years in the Navy, working in Washington in naval intelligence.
From the time her first ''Letter from London,'' appeared in The New Yorker in the first week of World War II in September 1939, Miss Panter-Downes gave Americans a ground zero view of world events, sometimes with a folksy blend of  American reference points and British nomenclature.
From the time her first ''Letter from London,'' appeared in The New Yorker in the first week of World War II in September 1939, Miss Panter-Downes gave Americans a ground zero view of world events, sometimes with a folksy blend of  American reference points and British nomenclature.
The daughter of an Army officer who was killed in World War I when she was 8, Miss Panter-Downes was born in London and grew up in Essex.
Born in Ipswich, England, in 1925, she moved to New York during World War II, after studying at the Westminster School for Chefs in London.
'' She had also been executive producer of the weekly program ''Business World'' for seven years and executive producer of ''Lifetime Magazine,'' a women's news magazine program produced by ABC for the Lifetime cable network.
She was one of the producers of ''45/85,'' a news special about the growth of the United States as a world power since World War II.
She was one of the producers of ''45/85,'' a news special about the growth of the United States as a world power since World War II.
She taught at Smith College and Princeton University before being asked to join the Manhattan Project, the Army's secret project to develop the atomic bomb in World War II.
The university's president, Robert F. Goheen, said in presenting it in 1958 that Dr. Wu had ''richly earned the right to be called the world's foremost female experimental physicist.
Ms. Hahn was known for her writings about her adventurous life in the Far East before World War II and for her books on such diverse subjects as Africa, D. H. Lawrence and apes.
She was a doubles partner of Alice Marble at Wimbledon in 1936 and toured South America in the years before World War II with Sarah Palfrey, Jack Kramer and Bobby Riggs.
''
        However great her accomplishments, she could never put to rest the legend of the captivating woman who snared some of the world's richest and most attractive men on two continents, marrying three of them.
When it was mentioned to one acquaintance that she was lacking a sense of humor, he shrugged and replied, ''Maybe, but she makes you feel you have the best sense of humor in the world.
''
        The Startling Remaking Of a Country Girl
        ''It's almost incredible to people I work with today,'' she said last year, ''to realize I was born in a world where a woman was totally controlled by men.
Above ground there were dinners and weekends with world leaders at Chequers or at Lord Beaverbrook's, tea dances at Claridges and the Dorchester, officers to entertain at the Churchill Club and Roosevelt's envoy, Harry Hopkins, to look after.
What annoys me, especially in this world where women are equal with men, why do they all take the same tack, that people didn't marry me?
That was how Mrs. Harriman came to preside over the palatial residence of American ambassadors on the Rue du Faubourg-St.-Honore, not far on a Paris street map but a world away from the Avenue de New York and the apartment she occupied in the 1950's as Pamela Churchill.
Ms. Brinkmann returned to New York City in 1982 to perform in a one-woman show, ''The World of Ruth Draper,'' at the South Street Theater.
From the early months of World War II, when the United States began  planning for the postwar world, until President Reagan opened the final phase of the struggle against the Soviet Union with his ''evil empire'' speech in 1983, Dr. Fosdick was in the thick of national foreign policy planning and debate.
From the early months of World War II, when the United States began  planning for the postwar world, until President Reagan opened the final phase of the struggle against the Soviet Union with his ''evil empire'' speech in 1983, Dr. Fosdick was in the thick of national foreign policy planning and debate.
Whatever her father's influence,  Dr. Fosdick, who was born in Montclair, N.J., and grew up in the faculty housing at the Union Theological Seminary, took as her mentor the family's friend and neighbor, Reinhold Niebuhr, the theologian whose belief that evil is a palpable world force that must be resisted and overcome became the geopolitical creed of a generation of cold war theorists.
'' and ''Common Sense and World Affairs,'' finally found her niche in 1954 as chief foreign policy adviser to Senator Jackson, the Washington State Democrat known for his expertise in military affairs.
She only wanted to save the world.
Never mind that he was decorated for valor in World War I and that he performed such distinguished service in the Pacific in World War II that he was promoted to Brigadier General.
Never mind that he was decorated for valor in World War I and that he performed such distinguished service in the Pacific in World War II that he was promoted to Brigadier General.
She was co-producer of a two-hour special for the Public Broadcasting System on his 100th anniversary in 1978 and organized a tour of ''The World of Carl Sandburg,'' a theatrical presentation of his writings adapted by Norman Corwin and starring Bette Davis and Gary Merrill.
She also edited books, wrote articles for Fortune, Life and U.S. News and World Report, and television scripts for the ''20th Century'' documentary series for Walter Cronkite and CBS.
As one of two elected judges of the Surrogate's Court in Manhattan, which Fiorello La Guardia described  as ''the most expensive undertaking establishment in the world,'' Surrogate Lambert heard disputes pertaining to wills and estates, and formalized adoptions.
'' Instead, she made her mark in the male-dominated world of personal injury law.
As one of two elected judges of the Surrogate's Court in Manhattan, which Fiorello La Guardia described as ''the most expensive undertaking establishment in the world,'' Surrogate Lambert heard disputes pertaining to wills and estates, and formalized adoptions.
'' Instead, she made her mark in the male-dominated world of personal injury law.
''
        In a 1993 interview with MarBy Blume in The International Herald Tribune, Ms. Maillart attributed her yearning for travel to her disgust with the horrors of World War I.
Among her pieces then was ''There Will be Tomorrow,'' about the German massacre of civilians in the Czechoslovak town of Lidice in World War II.
In the early 1990's her company expanded into the world of performance, with an emphasis on new music.
Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Thomas Lask wrote: ''Here is a charmer: a 19th-century book in a 20th-century world.
''The fans -- people all over the world who regard me as a friend!
In the art world, Mrs. Norman was best known for her close relationship with the photographer Alfred Stieglitz, whom she met in 1927 when she wandered into his art gallery, the Intimate Gallery on Park Avenue.
Her International Style town house on East 70th Street, designed by the Swiss architect William Lescaze in the early 1940's, was, in the decades after World War II, a place were one might meet Aaron Copland, Ralph Ellison, John Marin, Harold Clurman, Allen Ginsberg or the Rev.
A seemingly tireless worker, Mrs. Norman wrote a weekly column in The New York Post titled ''A World to Live In'' from 1942 to 1949.

        Hedwig G. Sulzle, who with her husband started a workshop atop a garage in central New York State in 1945 and built it into the world's largest independent manufacturer of surgical needles, died on Monday at her home in Syracuse.

        Dorothy Frooks, who stumped for women's suffrage as a child, recruited thousands of men to World War I service as a teen-ager, and then spent most of the century as a lawyer and political gadfly, died on Sunday at Veterans Hospital in Manhattan.
She served as chief yeoman in the Navy in World War I and as a judge advocate in the Army in World War II, taught school in Puerto Rico, ran a flying school, turned out columns for The New York World, wrote half a dozen books, founded The Murray Hills News, represented celebrated murder defendants, ran repeatedly for Congress, corresponded with George Bernard Shaw, feuded with Eleanor Roosevelt, hobnobbed with the King of Greece, turned down marriage proposals from Harry K. Thaw and Fiorello H. La Guardia, and so clouded the issue of her age that even her own family is not sure if she was 99 or 103.
She served as chief yeoman in the Navy in World War I and as a judge advocate in the Army in World War II, taught school in Puerto Rico, ran a flying school, turned out columns for The New York World, wrote half a dozen books, founded The Murray Hills News, represented celebrated murder defendants, ran repeatedly for Congress, corresponded with George Bernard Shaw, feuded with Eleanor Roosevelt, hobnobbed with the King of Greece, turned down marriage proposals from Harry K. Thaw and Fiorello H. La Guardia, and so clouded the issue of her age that even her own family is not sure if she was 99 or 103.
She served as chief yeoman in the Navy in World War I and as a judge advocate in the Army in World War II, taught school in Puerto Rico, ran a flying school, turned out columns for The New York World, wrote half a dozen books, founded The Murray Hills News, represented celebrated murder defendants, ran repeatedly for Congress, corresponded with George Bernard Shaw, feuded with Eleanor Roosevelt, hobnobbed with the King of Greece, turned down marriage proposals from Harry K. Thaw and Fiorello H. La Guardia, and so clouded the issue of her age that even her own family is not sure if she was 99 or 103.
The case also led to a ''My Day,'' column in The World, which lasted until 1932, when she was told that she was being replaced by Mrs. Roosevelt, a circumstance that may have contributed to her animosity toward the First Lady.
Mrs. Rockefeller was a dedicated supporter of the Young Women's Christian Association, where she took a prominent role as an advocate for women throughout the world.
's International division, and from 1958 to 1964, she was chairman of the organization's World Service Council.
activities around the world.
''
        Mrs. Petry, who had written the book while her husband was in the service in World War II, was not quite prepared for the stir it created when it was published to both critical and popular acclaim.
A resident of Chevy Chase, she was was 57 and had won six American and four world age-group championships in the sport, which combines running, swimming and cycling.
She won the first of her six consecutive national championships in 1991, captured the first of her four world titles in 1992 and was so dominant in the United States that when she placed second last weekend in a race in Birmingham, Ala., the 55-year-old woman who beat her was described as stunned.
She also held virtually every other major office in Hadassah, which was founded in 1912 and grew into the world's largest Zionist organization.
Her mother, an American opera singer, worked in Europe before World War I and married in Germany.
She remained with it until 1944, danced on Broadway in the musical comedies ''Sadie Thompson'' (1944) and ''Marinka'' (1945) and then left the dance world to care for her daughter.
Mrs. Mason represented the Lutheran World Relief and Church World Service.
Mrs. Mason represented the Lutheran World Relief and Church World Service.
In London she worked for the United Nations World magazine and later was on the staff of the International Labor Organization in Geneva.
Within months, she was in the field with the man she and a generation of other young female protegees called Papa Franz and the world knew as Franz Boas, the German-born social scientist widely recognized as the father of American anthropology and the mentor of such giants as Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict.
''
        In 1989, Miss Moore and more than 40 other prominent black women were honored at the Corcoran Gallery of Art, in Washington, where ''I Dream a World,'' an exhibition of photographs of them by Brian Lanker, was on display.

        Rose Will Monroe, an employee of an aircraft factory who, through a chance meeting with a Hollywood star, became the celebrated ''Rosie the Riveter'' in World War II, died on Saturday in Clarksville, Ind.
And the poster, with the title ''We Can Do It'' above a painting of a muscle-flexing woman in a bandanna and overalls, was becoming a worldwide symbol of women in the defense industry in World War II.
She had worked closely with Eleanor Roosevelt as chief of the research and statistics division of the Office of Civilian Defense in World War II, and with W.  Averell Harriman as chief of the Commerce Department's international economics division from 1946 to 1953.
In brisk, impeccable diction, she indoctrinated viewers into the mysterious world of cyclamen and spathiphyllum, enjoining them to tend their plants with loving kindness, and to throw them in the dustbin without a backward glance if the little ingrates failed to respond.
For decades, Ms. Daves was regarded as one of the world's foremost agents for serious and intellectual fiction and nonfiction.
''
        ''She loved these authors, which conjures up another world; it wasn't the fast buck,'' said Jennifer Lyons, who became her associate when Ms. Daves affiliated her one-woman agency in 1987 with a larger Manhattan agency, Writers House, to secure the interests of her authors as she grew older.
The corporate boards she was on over the years included those of the Mobil Corporation, Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, Trans World Airlines, Revlon, Inc., Harte-Hanks Communications, the Hanes Corporation and the Bendix Corporation
        During her career, she was also a director of nonprofit institutions including Oberlin College, Howard University and Tuskegee Institute.
That the competitive history between the two northern Californians was called a rivalry, dubbed the Battle of the Helens by a sometimes frothy news media between the two world wars, was a tribute more to  Jacobs's tenacity and cheerful pluck than to her shot-making power or on-court success against Moody.
She was ranked in the world Top 10 for 12 straight times from 1928, was No.
Jacobs was a commander in United States Navy intelligence in World War II, one of five women in the Navy to achieve the rank of commander.
When World War II came, WOR lacked a news department and appropriate facilities for radio transmissions.
During World War II, when her boss, David Driscoll, became a war correspondent, Ms. Meserand took over the department.
During World War II, she worked as an analyst for Army Intelligence in Washington.
During World War II, the Duchess studied philosophy at Radcliffe College.
Indeed, once she got wound up, it was easy to forget that it was, say, the Temple of Artemis, and not Dr. Trell herself, that was one of the Seven Wonders of the World.
But for all the depth and range of her knowledge and the intensity of her enthusiasm for the Greek world, Dr. Trell came to the classics late.
's Institute of Fine Arts to specialize in the study of ancient coins, whose depictions of temples and other monuments and buildings were often the best, if often contradictory, scholarly evidence of what the ancient world actually looked like.
Hardly a retiring scholar, Dr. Trell, who had done much of her research at the American Numismatic Society at Broadway and 155th Street, one of the world's great repositories of ancient coins, became so incensed in 1973 when the Metropolitan Museum of Art tried to sell some 6,000 coins it had loaned the society that she organized a highly-publicized protest that led the museum to sell the coins to the society at a discount.
''
        The call of the investment world was strong, however, and seven months after taking on her new position Mrs. Talley returned to it.
She worked as an economist during World War II in the Office of Price Administration in Washington and was married to John V. Frank, the president of a travel service.
She just loved the whole world of that, especially creating things.
During World War II, she worked with the Office of War Information.
The Orissi dance style, distinguished by a curved silhouette based on carved temple figures, was much less known throughout India and the world than the Bharata Natyam style from Madras when Sanjukta began performing it in the 1950's.
The Housewives' Association grew out of a protest over the shoddy quality of matches being rationed by the government in the impoverished days just after World War II.
Japanese women gained the right to vote and hold office in 1946, when the country was under United States occupation in the years after World War II.
Roberta Gorsuch was born in Lawrence, Kan., on Jan. 3, 1899, and moved with her family to Maryland during World War I.
The coming of World War II turned the Ballet Russe into an American company and, often partnered by Mr. Franklin, she toured across the country until the early 1950's, appearing in the classics, in ballets by Massine and in works by other choreographers, including Balanchine.
Her husband, 46 when World War I broke out, was too old for military service.
Philip Littlemore of the Guinness Book of World Records in London said the oldest known person whose date of birth was as well documented as Mrs. Calment's was Lucy Askew, a British woman who turned 104 last Sept. 8.
''
        Michel Vauzelle, the Mayor of Arles, said: ''She was Jeanne the Arlesienne, one whose picture went around the world.
She had a creditable enough career in journalism and with American intelligence in World War II.
(For all her reputation as a femme fatale, the ''Mata Halle'' nickname that William J. Donovan pinned on her during her years with his wartime Office of Strategic Services was more pun than analogy to the World War I seductress.
Miss Halle, who made Washington her base after World War II, became such a Churchill enthusiast that she published two volumes of his collected sayings and was credited with using her considerable drawing room influence to persuade Congress to confer the honorary American citizenship that he considered his most prized public tribute.
      

        Maria Rosa Henson, the first of a growing number of Philippine women to break a long silence and announce that she had been systematically raped by Japanese soldiers during World War II, has died at age 69.
She spent most of World War II in Britain, where she was first heard in radio dramas.
'' She was equally comfortable in the czarist Russia of Gorky and Chekhov and in the rustic American environment of ''Tobacco Road,'' although she seemed especially at home in the world of Lillian Hellman.
More than a compendium of staff marriages, births, deaths and achievements, it captured the life of the newspaper from the inside, with sometimes dramatic, often hilarious accounts from reporters around the world, from editors in a raucous city room, from printers riding Linotype machines, and hard men in square paper hats down in a thundering pressroom on 43d Street in Manhattan.
Based on memos from hundreds of Times employees, her account detailed the activities of reporters around the world and across the nation, looked over the shoulders of rewritemen pounding out inserts and of editors writing headlines and laying out pages, eavesdropped on advertising salesmen and then watched the presses roll and the delivery trucks roar away.

        The death at 36 of Diana, Princess of Wales, in a car crash in Paris brought to a tragic close the life of a woman who had gone from being a shy young society girl to one of the world's most glamorous women.
This year the Princess had taken highly publicized trips to former war zones like Angola to conduct her high-profile campaign against landmines, and had in recent weeks posed knowingly on Mediterranean holidays with her friend, Emad Mohammed al-Fayed, 42, in an apparent effort to show the world that the once troubled young woman had found personal happiness.
Once a girl in frilly modest-maiden dresses and a modified bowl haircut, she had become a fashionplate with annual expenses of more than $1.2 million, a woman whose every style change influenced the way women around the well dressed world appeared.
Toward the end of World War II, she was appointed instructor and then assistant professor of French at Syracuse University.
Immersing herself in the world of design, she became an indispensable ally to Mr. Lee and others.
She was a national officer in the American Association of University Women, played a pivotal role in ending the organization's practice of racial segregation in the 1940's and headed a task force on the status of women and their employment opportunities after World War II.
During and just after World War II, Ms. Merril was the only woman associated with a group of young science fiction enthusiasts known as the Futurians, whose members included Isaac Asimov, James Blish, C. M. Kornbluth and Frederick Pohl.
One puzzled reviewer noted that stories like Ballard's ''Assassination of John Fitzgerald Kennedy Considered as a Downhill Motor Race'' were ''closer to the world of Kafka and William Burroughs than to Asimov and Bradbury.

        Laura Margolis, who helped rescue thousands of Jews fleeing persecution during World War II, died on Sept. 9 at the home of a nephew, James A. Margolis, in Brookline, Mass.
Her 1962 documentary, ''Robert Frost: A Lover's Quarrel With the World,'' a portrait of the poet, won an Oscar.
Her gritty 1963 film, ''The Cool World,'' adapted from a novel by Warren Miller and filmed on the streets of Harlem, tracked the life of a young man who rises briefly to the leadership of a juvenile gang.
The film, ''Robert Frost: A Lover's Quarrel With the World,'' won an Academy Award in 1963 not for her but for its producer, Robert Hughes.
      

        Mother Teresa, the Roman Catholic nun who won the 1979 Nobel Peace Prize for her work among the poorest of the world's poor, died yesterday in Calcutta, India, where she had lived since her work with the destitute began five decades ago.
She also came to be honored around the world for the compassionate, effective way she set up and oversaw projects to provide care and comfort to the very poor and the very sick, orphans, lepers and the dying.
''
        The Nobel Committee said its award to her in 1979 was ''for work undertaken in the struggle to overcome poverty and distress in the world, which also constitute a threat to peace.
By the time Mother Teresa won the Nobel Prize, her order had attracted 1,800 nuns and 120,000 lay workers, running more than 80 centers in India and more than 100 others in other parts of the world.
In addition to all her good works, Mother Teresa found time to compose prayers, including this one:
        Make us worthy, Lord,
        To serve our fellow men
        Throughout the world who live and die
        In poverty or hunger.
While there, she organized and headed the Oceanographic Unit of the Navy Hydrographic Office, which until World War II had been mainly engaged in making and printing navigational charts.
During World War II, Miss Pepper worked on the design of floating drydocks for Admiral Harris Engineers and then was on the architectural staff of the U.S.O.
In 1948, while she was chairwoman of the chapter's subcommittee on exhibitions, she oversaw the installation of an exhibit titled ''Tomorrow's World,'' sponsored by the chapter, in the New York Museum of Science and Industry in Rockefeller Center.
After she left the Government, she traveled the world as a consultant on population control and family planning and wrote articles for social science journals and a well-received book, with Elizabeth C. Mooney, ''Not My Daughter: Facing Up to Adolescent Pregnancy'' (Prentice-Hall, 1979).
She also produced for PBS a documentary on the role of women in the Arab world titled, ''Islam: The Veil and the Future.
CBS officials liked it so much, they used it on ''The World Tonight,'' then a mainstay of CBS Radio.
During World War II, when metals for jewelry were scarce, Mrs. Moonan used unusual materials like straw, nuts and toy parts.
Ms. Lindley took a break from acting to raise five children with her first husband, Hardy Ulm, but by the 1960's she was appearing in recurring roles in such television soap operas as ''The Edge of Night,'' ''Search for Tomorrow'' and ''Another World.
She was the first woman elected president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the largest alliance of scientists in the world.
Dr. Rees was an associate professor during World War II, when she went to work for the Government, helping to direct research in  modern mathematics for the war effort.
A lifelong Zionist, she was a delegate to the first postwar congress of the World Zionist Organization in Basel, Switzerland, in 1946.
During World War II, she worked on a research team that produced a vaccine for cholera, and in 1945 and 1946 she was a research assistant on the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb.
At the end of ''Betsy's Wedding,'' as her husband, Joe, is about to go off to World War I, Betsy speaks of their plans to have a little girl named Bettina, not realizing, perhaps, that in time the little girl would make her mother write it all down.
      
Her husband, Lester Moffett, had various jobs, including working as a guard at the 1964-65 World's Fair.
He went on to be president of the World Federation of Bergen-Belsen Survivors Associations.
At her death, she had been the honorary president of the World Federation of Bergen-Belsen Survivors Associations for two decades.
Ms. Wright also chronicled the creation of Palomar in 1952, at the time the world's largest telescope.
Steel Hour'' and ''As the World Turns.
Parks, who contracted polio when she was 6 and used a crutch the rest of her life, had a generally privileged existence in the White House, so much so that when members of the domestic staff were barred from using the White House elevator in World War II, so the crippled President, Franklin D. Roosevelt, could be evacuated quickly in an emergency, the President, himself, ordered an exception for ''Little Lillian,'' the universal nickname for a woman who never grew above 4 foot 9.
It was Anna dePlanter Bowes, a Pennsylvania nutritionist, who first recognized that official nutrition tables listing the amounts of various vitamins and other nutrients in arbitrary laboratory portions of basic foods had little relevance to real world kitchen and dinner table conditions.
Her concern with public health could be traced to her grade-school days, when the influenza pandemic at the end of World War I killed many Navajos.
It said Wethered was ''the most stylish and successful woman golfer of her day, and is still widely regarded as the best the world has seen.

        The French singer and songwriter known simply as Barbara, who earned a huge following in the French-speaking world for her melancholic lyrics and melodies, died on Monday in the American Hospital in Paris.
''In a world of whining and complaining, she has wonderful, old-fashioned standards, which have not been deconstructed for modern times,'' the designer Mark Hampton was quoted as saying.
She wrote of dogs and all manner of living things in a characteristic style, weaving the romance and history of mankind's association with the animal world into her illustrated texts.
Her parents, William E. and Eleanor B. Stevenson, set up American Red Cross units in England and North Africa during World War II.
There, she met an executive of Trans World Airlines, who hired her to travel the world promoting T.W.A.
There, she met an executive of Trans World Airlines, who hired her to travel the world promoting T.W.A.
The luxurious cat complex included tile floors, climbing towers, scratching posts, skylights and cozy, low-lying window ledges where the cats could stretch out and watch the world outside their air-conditioned lair.
Another volume, written with Emily Copeland, ''Forced Migration: Policy Issues in the Post-Cold War World'' (1993), was widely distributed by the United Nations High Commission on Refugees and various national governments.
She served on the board of the World Peace Foundation.
She quickly became an expert on the Soviet bloc, led fact-finding missions throughout the world and, as head of the Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Europe, championed NATO and a strong Europe as a bulwark against international Communism.
Serving during the Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, she sponsored measures to settle displaced people after World War II and refugees from Russia and Eastern Europe.
The language is nervous and skewed; the authorial stance, adversarial and abrasive; the world view, cynical verging on the nihilistic.
''She was a constantly defining presence in the world we shared, a remarkable and transforming poet for all of us.
She was, as in the title of her first book of essays, ''The Poet in the World.
During World War II, she worked as a nurse in London and also began publishing her poetry.
She felt compelled to clarify and justify the uses of poetry in a world of political crisis.
In 1948, she was in the world premiere of Kurt Weill and Arnold Sundgaard's folk opera, ''Down in the Valley,'' at Indiana University and repeated her role on television.
From the modest beginning of the collection and until she retired in 1965, Dr. Grierson traveled the world to document the experience of women from the colonial era to the present.
during World War II, then settled in Milwaukee, where her husband, a former vaudevillian named Henri Margo (ne Henry Sanderson), operated a nursing home while Miss Carlson made occasional forays back to the stage before moving to California in the 1950's.
