She arrived in New York City after World War II and became involved in numerous neighborhood and block associations.
In recent years, she made few movies, but traveled the world raising money and awareness for the U.N. organization.
"
        There was some grumbling from the theater world when she was cast as Eliza Doolittle in "My Fair Lady," winning the role over Julie Andrews, who had originated it on Broadway.
During World War II, she and her mother were caught vacationing in Holland when the Nazis invaded and her family endured much hardship during the occupation.
With Frequent Appearances
        Even in her last years she remained a visible presence in the film world.
During World War II, she returned to England and toured Europe, the Mideast and the Asian subcontinent, entertaining troops.
For years the true identity of the writer behind the three pseudonyms was a tightly guarded secret in the publishing world.
In the late 1960's and early 70's, Ms.  Wilke startled the art world with beautiful sculptures made of latex or ceramic whose layered and folded flowerlike forms were both abstract and yet highly suggestive of female genitalia.
She was director of light music at the 1939 World's Fair, the same year she married Faye Hubbard, a rodeo cowboy.
She also wrote songs for Radio City Music Hall revues, pieces for three world's fair exhibitions and commemorations for several national organizations, including the Camp Fire Girls and the American Medical Association.
Married Amid Royalty
        When the Germans overran Greece in World War II, Alexandra and her mother, the former Aspasia Manos, the daughter of a royal equerry, again traveled to London.
Miss Gould was best known for "Winslow Homer: A Portrait" (1962), "Robert Frost: The Aim Was Song" (1964), "The Poet and Her Book: A Biography of Edna St. Vincent Millay" (1969) and "Amy: The World of Amy Lowell and the Imagist Movement" (1976).
Dr. Goldfeder bred a strain of albino mice whose lack of naturally occurring tumors made them ideal for cancer experiments by researchers around the world.
She published four novels, including "Those First Affections" (1938), a highly praised effort to create the subjective world of a young girl.
She was for many years an editor on The Nation, and during World War II ran the English desk at the Office of War Information, which later became Voice of America.
But she arranged an abortion, and also arranged abortions for three other women, because she was convinced that "children had no right to be born" into such a world.

        Constance Ford, an actress who appeared for 25 years in the role of Ada Hobson, an indestructably upbeat mother in the NBC daytime serial "Another World," died yesterday at New York Hospital.
For her performances in "Another World," Ms. Ford was awarded a Certificate of Merit for Outstanding Contribution to Daytime Drama by the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.
A graduate of the Middlesex General Hospital School of Nursing, Mrs. Freedman was a volunteer in World War II, teaching nurses' aides at the Jersey Shore Medical Center and the Monmouth Medical Center.
"They both came into the world in 1893.
Propaganda Films For World War I
        During World War I, the Gish sisters went with Griffith to Europe to make propaganda films, among them the immensely successful "Hearts of the World" (1918).
Propaganda Films For World War I
        During World War I, the Gish sisters went with Griffith to Europe to make propaganda films, among them the immensely successful "Hearts of the World" (1918).
Propaganda Films For World War I
        During World War I, the Gish sisters went with Griffith to Europe to make propaganda films, among them the immensely successful "Hearts of the World" (1918).
Hendrick Sartov, the still photographer for "Hearts of the World," eventually became a cinematographer for Griffith and invented for Miss Gish the "Lillian Gish lens," now called a soft-focus lens, which gives its subject a warmly blurred appearance.
The persecution of Jewish friends in France in World War II prompted the second theme of Mrs. Huchet Bishop's life.
"I became the tallest five-foot woman in the world.
The amateur film was distributed nationally by 20th Century Fox and the proceeds went to Children to Palestine, an interfaith group started to save Jewish children in Europe during World War II.
In 1952, Mrs. Goodman began her association as a nongovernmental representative at the United Nations through the World Union of Progressive Judaism.
As a representative, she attended meetings of the Economic and Social Council and was an accredited spokeswoman for the World Union of Progressive Judaism.
The World Union is the international body of Reform, Progressive, Liberal, and Reconstructionist Jews linking 1.5 million people in more than 20 countries.
In 1951 the State Department sent her to Germany to work with peoples resettled after World War II.
Miss Finsterwald was best known as the author of the 1946 Broadway production "On Whitman Avenue," which dealt with racial discrimination in housing encountered by a black veteran of World War II.
In 1951 the State Department sent her to Germany to work with peoples resettled after World War II.
The New York Metropolitan Committee for Unicef is sponsoring the service and a daylong film tribute (at the Angelika Theater) to Miss Hepburn, who traveled the world for the organization.
      

        Marian Anderson, whose velvety contralto and dignified, affecting stage manner melted the hearts of music lovers around the world, and whose determination helped shatter racial barriers in the arts, died yesterday in Portland, Ore. She was 96.
"
        Miss Anderson continued to tour as a recitalist, but made no headway in the opera world until Mr. Bing invited her to sing Ulrica in Verdi's "Ballo in Maschera.
During World War II, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, she helped develop the magnetron into a power source for an aerial navigation system.

        Valentina S. Grizodubova, a World War II air commander and pioneer aviator who was known as the Soviet Union's Amelia Earhart, died on Wednesday in Russia.
In World War II, she commanded an air regiment of long-range planes, flew bombing missions and survived attacks by German fighters.
Ms. Tolstoy fled her native Russia after the Bolshevik revolution, resettled in Czechoslovakia, then left there in 1939 to escape the Nazis and World War II.

        Ray Schaffer, who owned A La Vieille Russie, one of the world's leading sellers of Russian art, jewelry and antiques, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
In World War I she was a nurse in Italy, and in World War II she worked for the British Information Ministry, earning prominence and honors for enhancing British influence and countering Axis propaganda in Aden, Yemen, Egypt, Iraq and India.
In World War I she was a nurse in Italy, and in World War II she worked for the British Information Ministry, earning prominence and honors for enhancing British influence and countering Axis propaganda in Aden, Yemen, Egypt, Iraq and India.
Mrs. Carroll was born in North Carolina and taught English for several years before becoming a paymaster in the Navy during World War II.
She served on the editorial advisory boards of the World Book Encyclopedia and the Thorndike-Barnhart and Funk & Wagnalls dictionaries.
In 1921, she married John Campbell White, a career diplomat, and accompanied him to postings around the world, including ambassadorships in Haiti and Peru.
In the New York magazine article, Ms. Steinem quoted Mrs. Nixon as saying: "Now, I have friends in all the countries of the world.
Mrs. Hausman served as a volunteer ambulance driver in World War II.
On a hunch that the long-waisted ideal female form was more myth than reality, she studied measurements the military had made of women who volunteered in World War II.
As representative of the International Organization of Consumers Unions at the United Nations, she organized over 300 groups around the world in a network to work for the banning of the hazardous products listed in the directory, which was published in 1983.
She worked in volunteer efforts during World War II, and after the war worked in management at Macy's.
The world of opera and art song opened for her in 1965, when she was teaching in Chicago and began studying voice with Ralph Errolle.

        Dr. Gladys Lounsbury Hobby, a microbiologist who helped to move penicillin from a laboratory discovery to mass production during World War II, died on Sunday at her home at the Crosslands retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 82.

        Gusti Huber, a leading Viennese actress before World War II who continued her successful stage and film career in this country, died on Monday at her home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 78.
After retiring from acting in 1961, she lectured in New York area high schools on the legacy of Anne Frank, the Jewish girl who hid from the Nazis in a garret in Amsterdam and who died in a concentration camp shortly before the end of World War II..
After the liberation of Austria in World War II, she joined a company entertaining American troops.
Other works include " 'I Wonder Why,' Thought the Owl," (Putnam, 1965) and "Danny Kaye's Around the World Story Book," (Random House, 1960), of which she was co-editor.
Mrs. Rodzinski was active in several Polish charitable and cultural organizations, including Polish Mutual Assistance, founded in 1956 to help Poles in the United States who had been left destitute by World War II.
Among her customers were Mrs. Nelson Rockefeller, the late Richard Rodgers, Beverly Sills and many other personalities in the entertainment and music world.
During World War II, she married Albert Ford, an entrepreneur in New York City, and learned about antiques by visiting galleries.
During World War II she served as the Office of Civilian Defense's director of group activities in New York, New Jersey and Delaware.
Dr. James Ebert, vice president of the National Academy of Science, called Dr. Ramsey "the world's leading student of the anatomy of the placenta.
During World War II, she worked as a welder at Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico and taught dance in Albuquerque, Santa Fe and Las Vegas, Nev.
        Ms.
She attended Miss Spence's School but left before her graduation in 1918 to be trained as a radio operator 1st class, and served in that capacity until the end of World War I. Eisenhowers Were Clients
        Soon after the war, she married Seth Low, a banker.
Mrs. Draper was prominent in the Long Island social world for decades.
"
        Her sumptuous array of vibrant Thai silk costumes for "The King and I" in 1951 created a sensation in the world of high fashion and interior decoration, and she won her Tony for her designs.
During World War II, she worked with the American Red Cross in the Southwest Pacific.
In World War II, she served in the United States Navy Women's Reserve, retiring in 1946 as a commander.
These experiences prompted her first book, "Half the World's People" (Apoleton-Century-Crofts, 1965).
For many years she had been active in the American Red Cross, serving as an ambulance driver during World War II.
Samsonite developed and became the world's largest manufacturer of hard-sided luggage, then expanded into the production of folding chairs and tables.
Mrs. Shwayder was married for 62 years to Benjamin Shwayder, who with his four brothers founded the Samsonite Corporation, which became the world's largest maker of hard-sided luggage.
During World War II she served four years in the United States Army Nurse Corps in the Pacific.
During World War II, she studied at the Moscow State Jewish Theater.
" Off Broadway, she appeared in "The Pocket Watch," "Scuba Duba," "The House of Blue Leaves" and "The World of Sholom Aleichem.
Her friends included leaders of the performing arts, particularly in the music world.
She also wrote several books, including a novel, "No Hiding Place," (Alfred A. Knopf, 1942), which told of Army wives in World War II, and "Prose by Professionals: The Inside Story of the Magazine Article Writer's Craft" (Doubleday, 1961), of which she was co-editor.
She was the widow of Robert Meltzer, who died in World War II.
During World War II, she raised money for war-related charities and organized shows for American soldiers on their way overseas.
After 1949, she worked primarily as a journalist at The Daily Worker and The People's World.
Mrs. MacDonald began working as a volunteer for several organizations during World War II.
Her research, which focused on problems in returning to a normal life after the loss of limbs or disfigurement, was applied after World War II to help injured veterans.
She earned her doctorate from the University of Berlin in 1930 and emigrated to the United States before World War II to do research at Smith College, which she continued at Cornell University, the University of Iowa, Mount Holyoke College and Stanford University.
In 1986, she became editor of Staff News, which is distributed to Unicef's employees around the world.
" On television, she played the title character on "Portia Faces Life" and was Julia Burke for six years on "As the World Turns.
Miss Duke was not only rich; she was also thought for years to be the richest woman in the world.
Visiting Agra, the Indian city that is the site of the Taj Mahal, the bride told a a questioner happily, "I'm a married woman now," and remarked that she did not like it when people called her "the world's richest girl" and "the tobacco queen.
But by February 1991, Ms. Heffner, known as Chandi, had become persona non grata at Miss Duke's residences, according to an unauthorized biography of Miss Duke, "The Richest Girl in the World" (Putnam, 1992), by Stephanie Mansfield.
She was involved in the approval of wiretaps used to investigate the bombing last February of the World Trade Center in Manhattan.
He was regarded by many as the world's best individual player in the period from 1930 to 1960.
Because of World War II, that itinerant cosmopolitan troupe had made America its headquarters.
In 1950 she directed "Out of This World," but the choreography was by the modern dancer Hanya Holm.

        Heather Farr, the professional golfer whose four-and-a-half-year battle with cancer won her scores of admirers from inside and outside the golf world, died Saturday night in Scottsdale, Ariz. She was 28.
"
        Farr played on the 1984 Curtis Cup team and the 1984 World Amateur team.
Ms. Madero said that Miss McNeil was married when she was 18 to a man who died in World War II, and that her second marriage ended in divorce after two years.
      
She was born in Berlin but was taken to London by her parents before World War II.
The actress interrupted her career for Red Cross volunteer work throughout World War II.
"
        At the start of World War II, Miss Loy left Hollywood and did full-time volunteer work, serving for four years as an assistant head of Red Cross welfare activities in New York.
The performance won her the Brussels World Film Festival prize for the best performance by an actress.
Lauren Bacall, the master of ceremonies, said she admired Miss Loy "as a person, an actress and a face, but also as a woman aware of what went on in the country and the world.
The actress interrupted her career for Red Cross volunteer work throughout World War II.
"
        At the start of World War II, Miss Loy left Hollywood and did full-time volunteer work, serving for four years as an assistant head of Red Cross welfare activities in New York.
The performance won her the Brussels World Film Festival prize for the best performance by an actress.
Lauren Bacall, the master of ceremonies, said she admired Miss Loy "as a person, an actress and a face, but also as a woman aware of what went on in the country and the world.
Miss Raedler's company, which began as Masque and Lyre Light Opera in 1939 and became the American Savoyards in 1952, was a highly regarded fixture in the New York musical world through the late 1960's.
She also worked as a liaison officer between the World Health Organization and the United Nations, conducting surveys of health services in developing countries.
"  Avid Amateur Pilot
        With the outbreak of World War II, Miss Tully settled permanently in New York and continued her vocal studies.
Miss Tully, who never married, was a tall, slender, regal woman with a friendly smile, a wry sense of humor, and a comprehensive knowledge of musical literature and the world of performers.
