The dance world went into shock.
She said Mrs. McIntosh, a campus legend, was a pioneer in exploring ''the struggle of both women and men to find their true roles in a changing world.
At the end of World War II, Princess Vera fled again before the advancing Soviet Army.
Dr. Horstmann died as the World Health Organization was on the verge of eradicating polio and four days after the death of Dr. Joseph L. Melnick of Houston, another polio pioneer with whom she worked and wrote scholarly papers.
The World Health Organization then asked Dr. Horstmann to study the incidence of polio in the vaccinated areas.

        The last queen of Italy, Maria José of Savoy, who served after World War II for only 27 days before Italians voted to abolish the monarchy, died on Saturday in a Geneva hospital.
The daughter of Albert I, king of Belgium, Maria José in 1930 married Prince Umberto II, whose father, King Vittorio Emanuele III, cooperated with Mussolini before and during World War II.
''She would never have had to go to the World's Fair or anything like that,'' Mr. Pushnik said.
He then asked her to appear at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1933.
In six years of touring most of the nation's major expositions, including the New York World's Fair in 1939, she was seen by millions.
She was a lieder and opera singer in Germany for a few years before she married Dr. Schaeffer, who was also born in Germany, not long after World War I ended.
In 1953, she established the Cancer Research Institute, which now has an annual budget of $14 million and provides support for scientists around the world.
Dr. Adler studied the anxiety and depression that can follow such catastrophes and later applied her findings to the treatment World War II veterans.
She was Wittgenstein's student and friend during World War II.
In World War II, she began writing a column for Tatler, ''On and Off Duty in Town and Country.
''She was sort of foster mother to the world.
''
        Born in Yamaguchi Prefecture on Feb. 17, 1899, Ms. Kushida entered the Women's University in Tokyo but dropped out to marry Tamizo Kushida, a Marxist economist who died before the outbreak of World War II.
The hardships she experienced made her aware of the difficult lives many Japanese women led and encouraged her to devote her life to working for the advancement of women and the promotion of world peace.
After World War II, she joined the emerging Japanese feminist movement and worked with Yuriko Miyamoto, a leading feminist writer of the time.
When Michael Todd staged a Madison Square Garden celebration in 1957 for the first anniversary of his movie ''Around the World in 80 Days,'' Cake Masters delivered the cake, even as an elephant delivered Mr. Todd's wife, Miss Taylor.
With the outbreak of World War II, Ms. Arova's British piano teacher in Paris urged her to escape France.
A textile designer throughout the 1960's and 70's, Mrs. Gwathmey seldom looked back on her photographic past, which was in turn largely forgotten by the photographic world.
In World War I, she saved the life of a spy in Austria.
When she and her mother took a trip to their Austrian hometown to show Mrs. Freedman's grandparents that she was really alive, World War I had broken out, and the Russians had invaded Austria.
The book stated that continued population and industrial growth would exhaust the world's minerals and steep the planet in lethal levels of pollution.

        Miné Okubo, a Japanese-American artist who recorded in 2,000 drawings and a book what she saw and felt as an internee in American detention camps for Japanese and Japanese-Americans during World War II, died on Feb. 10 in Manhattan.
In 1938 she was awarded a fellowship to study and travel in Europe, but World War II cut short her stay.
''Don't forget,'' Ms. Sammak said, ''when she started the society, women were not doing these things -- to start a society in a man's world.
There are now 38 societies around the world.
She was a lifelong member of its World Service Council.
'He Is Taller Than Anyone Else'
        There she met Charles Lindbergh, whose courageous solo flight across the Atlantic had made him a hero of mythic proportions and the most famous man in the world.
I felt the whole world before this to be frivolous, superficial, ephemeral.
'' As the critic Alfred Kazin observed, ''To millions around the world -- reading of the Lindberghs flying everywhere in their own Lockheed Sirius seaplane, looking at photographs of the 'perfect'-looking couple ('the Lone Eagle and his mate') landing in Siberia, China, Japan -- the Lindberghs seemed to enjoy the greatest possible good fortune that a young couple could have.
The respect for Mrs. Lindbergh also survived bitter controversy over her 1940 book ''The Wave of the Future,'' a short, hazy manifesto, written while World War II raged in Europe.
''
        In later years, Walter S. Ross wrote in his 1967 biography ''The Last Hero: Charles A. Lindbergh'' that the book ''took so astral a view of the world that it made the crimes of the Nazis seem to bulk no larger than the inadequacies'' of the democracies.
'' ''The sheer fact of finding myself loved was unbelievable and changed my world, my feelings about life and myself.
The man I was to marry believed in me and what I could do, and consequently I found I could do more than I realized, even in that mysterious outer world that fascinated me but seemed unattainable.
Their marriage was the lead story on the front page of The New York Times and newspapers all over the world.
In 1939, shortly before the outbreak of World War II, the Lindberghs moved back to the United States, where Lindbergh's isolationist pronouncements made him widely unpopular.
The solution for me, surely, is neither in total renunciation of the world, nor in total acceptance of it.
At the peak of their popularity in the late 1940's and early 50's, Roy Rogers and Dale Evans had more than 2,000 fan clubs around the world and hundreds of licensed products from lunchboxes to comic books bore their names and faces.
Stylistically versatile, she contributed to early television dance, taught dance around the world and choreographed stage shows at the Roxy Theater in New York and several ice revues.
The Kirov was at a peak but unfamiliar to ballet audiences throughout the world until 1961.

        Helen Smith Bevington, a poet, essayist, English professor and tireless tourist who roamed the world in search of her own Shangri-La, died on Friday at the home of her son, David, in Chicago.
''
        A writer of light verse and memoirs that plumbed her own life, Mrs. Bevington wrote about her world travels, her romance and marriage to her husband, Merle M. Bevington, and even the small-town love affairs of her Methodist minister father.
In her 70's she traveled the world again, writing about her quixotic quest ''in search of something -- call it a bo tree, or Shangri-La, or earthly paradise -- which is only another name for peace itself and these days is decidedly a fool's errand.
''Miss Wing is a nice girl with a face like the morning sun,'' The New York World Telegram proclaimed in 1937.
's to World War II in a swimsuit.
Ahead of her time, she sometimes baffled the international dance world with experiments in stillness, a dissociation between music and movement and her uncanny ability to reshape the body into an assemblage of independent planes.
Her work, known for exceptionally large vessels, is exhibited in public and private collections around the world.
And she got good reviews as a hard-boiled ex-waitress pressed into service as a nurse and doomed when the island of Bataan was conquered by the Japanese in the World War II drama ''Cry Havoc'' (1943).
''I wanted to tell stories to little children, like my own son and his friends who were beginning to find their way in the everyday world of family, play, work, pets, familiar things that they experienced and understood,'' she recalled.
On television, she was a frequent  guest on ''The Merv Griffin Show'' and a guest star on the sitcom ''A Different World.
She joined the Army in November 1942 and during World War II served in Africa, France and Italy.
''I believe very strongly that the ability to provide technical assistance should be secondary to a volunteer's motivation,'' Dr. Payton said in an interview with U.S. News and World Report in 1977.
Her father, Karl von Spreti, was a founding member of the Christian Democratic party in Germany after World War II.
After working for several years in the art world, she took a job at the gallery owned by Pierre Matisse, a son of the artist Henri Matisse and a leading international dealer in modern art.
Mrs. MacFarquhar, who traveled widely in Asia and whose reports and observations had a keen audience among scholars and foreign policy experts, also worked for several years for British television and for U.S. News & World Report, covering subjects like Mao's Cultural Revolution, the Bangladesh war of independence and women's rights.

        Nyree Dawn Porter, who entranced millions of television viewers around the world when she starred as the beautiful Irene, trapped in a loveless marriage in the BBC adaptation of John Galsworthy's ''Forsyte Saga'' in the late 1960's, died on Monday at her home in London.

        Dr. Dorothy Burr Thompson, a classical archaeologist who was one of the world's leading experts on ancient terra-cotta art, died on May 10 at her home in Hightstown, N.J. She was 101.
Possessed of an immense voice, forthright and ringing, Ms. Hunter in her prime, which coincided roughly with the 1970's, seemed ready to take over from Birgit Nilsson as the world's leading Wagnerian soprano.
She was a co-founder of the English Department at Hebrew University, helped found a self-help organization for Arab women and traveled around the world marshaling support for the Jewish state.

        Marie Jahoda, one of the world's foremost social psychologists and an emeritus professor at the University of Sussex, died on April 28 at her home in Keymer, in southeast England.
She came to the United States after World War II and worked as a researcher for the American Jewish Committee and at Columbia University before moving to N.Y.U.
Mrs. Lee, an imposing woman who was rarely seen without her pearls, came to New York in 1936 and quickly rose to prominence in the fashion world.
For about 30 years, she shuttled between the advertising world, where she worked with Helena Rubenstein, Elizabeth Arden and Leona Helmsley, and magazine editing, where she became a colleague of major fashion figures, including Diana Vreeland and Carmel Snow.
She held posts in the nonprofit world before Gov.
She grew up traveling the world with her family as Yehudi Menuhin, who was five and a half years her senior, established his early career.
Her most recent work included the U.S. News & World Report/Freedom Forum series ''World@Large,'' which is broadcast on WNET, Channel 13, in New York.
''
        The first inkling of their profit potential came shortly after their birth when their father, Oliva, signed a contract to display them at the Chicago World's Fair.
Meanwhile, Dr. Dafoe became one of the world's most celebrated doctors, writing newspaper columns on the quints' daily schedule and even about the pebbles in Callander, which were said to enhance fertility.
''
        A spokesman said the family was upset that the world had been notified before succession could be discussed or funeral arrangements made.
''
        Her vegetable garden, a tapestry of ever-changing cabbages, lettuces, strawberries, hop vines and espaliered fruit trees, ''has become a cliché copied around the world,'' Mr. Wheeler said.
She served as a nurse's aide at Roosevelt Hospital during World Wars I and II.
She served as a nurse's aide at Roosevelt Hospital during World Wars I and II.

        Lyubov Sokolova, a Russian actress whose roles in more than 300 movies in the years after World War II shaped the image of the Soviet wife and mother, died on June 6 at her home in Moscow.
During the Nazi siege of Leningrad in World War II, when she was working in a factory and also training to become a teacher, her first husband, Georgi Arapovsky, and her mother-in-law starved to death.
With her support he forged a staff of reporters and editors that made The Washington Post a force in the capital and in the world of journalism.
Her father, Eugene Meyer, made his fortune on Wall Street, became a governor of the Federal Reserve Bank, went on to organize the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and was appointed the first president of the World Bank.
It would symbolize her emergence from her dead husband's shadow; she would become her own woman before the entire world.
''One of our unspoken goals was to get the world to refer to The Post and New York Times in the same breath, which they previously hadn't done.
Mrs. Graham liked to tell the story of her visit to a village in the Ivory Coast where the chief exclaimed what an honor it was to have with them the 17th most important person in the world, a description that she said he had apparently picked up from a poll that had appeared in U.S. News & World Report.
Mrs. Graham liked to tell the story of her visit to a village in the Ivory Coast where the chief exclaimed what an honor it was to have with them the 17th most important person in the world, a description that she said he had apparently picked up from a poll that had appeared in U.S. News & World Report.
''
        The ''A'' list of the world attended her parties.
She played a signal role in changing Washington mores when it became widely known that on one evening after dinner, she had refused to join the ladies upstairs while the men discussed world affairs over brandy and cigars.
The marriage ended in divorce, as did a subsequent one to Norman Sachs Jr.
        She entered the New York art world as a painter, with her first solo show at the Laurel Gallery on East 57th Street in 1947.
Among the first women allowed to fly fighter planes for the Luftwaffe, she ferried aircraft to the front lines during World War II.
Ms. Kushi and her husband, Michio, also taught that entire societies could become disharmonious and aggressive from eating meat and processed foods, undermining world peace.
She taught in elementary school during World War II, but resigned to work for peace as a member of the World Government Association, run by George Ohsawa, who is considered the father of the macrobiotic movement.
She taught in elementary school during World War II, but resigned to work for peace as a member of the World Government Association, run by George Ohsawa, who is considered the father of the macrobiotic movement.
She came to the United States in 1951 to attend a meeting of students who supported world government.
In the early 1960's, the Kushis moved from New York to Boston, where they formed discussion groups on health and world peace.
''
        The couple founded organizations to promote macrobiotics, including the Kushi Foundation, the Kushi Institute and One Peaceful World.
In the story ''The Whole World Knows,'' she charted a doomed meeting between a young couple who were estranged:
        ''There in the flower beds walked the same robins.
''
        During World War II, Miss Welty was briefly on the staff of The New York Times Book Review and sometimes contributed reviews under the pseudonym Michael Ravenna.
But her biggest class was filled with the millions of children in America's living rooms born just a few years after World War II.
That was preceded a year earlier by ''Doris Lessing: In This World but Not of It'' (Little, Brown).
)
        When Ms. Jansson's ''Moominsummer Madness,'' in which the Moomins are threatened by floodwaters, came out in the United States in 1961, Pamela Marsh wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Ms. Jansson had created ''an entirely new world full of cheery dauntless little creatures.
She met other promising newcomers, among them Gene Saks, Sidney Lumet and Michael V. Gazzo (later to write ''A Hatful of Rain'') and soon found herself in a new group called Off Broadway Inc.
        She joined the Actors Studio, where she met and worked with the Studio's guru, Lee Strasberg, and later described him as the person ''who made it possible for the whole world to open up for me.
In 1959 she played a middle-aged woman in love with a handsome 19-year-old (Horst Buchholz) in ''Cherie,'' adapted by Anita Loos from two novels by Colette and set in France in the years just before and after World War I. Atkinson found her performance ''magnetic and illuminating.
'' Aaliyah toured the world through 1994 and 1995.
The citation read, ''She persuaded the ski world to treat all athletes the same, regardless of ability or, in her case, disability.
She did, and a year later she won the downhill in the world handicapped championships.
From 1986 to 1990, she won 10 world and 19 United States championships.
I'm the best in the world and I train my heart and soul out for this and I ski 150 days and I work out in the weight room, and to me courageous doesn't imply any of that.
During World War II, when she was about 19, her mother, who worked for the War Department, saw to it that Jane was one of three young women selected to model uniforms for the new Women's Army Corps.
Thereafter, except for service with the Red Cross during World War II, she served on the board uninterruptedly.
They were also the years in which the museum came to be ranked as the father and grandfather of modern-art museums the world over.
As a couple, they were friends with many of the leading figures in the New York art world.
One was Vincent la Selva and the New York Grand Opera, which recently completed a complete cycle of Verdi's operas in Central Park, an achievement for which Ms. Williamson helped get them a citation in the  Guinness Book of World Records.
Just ask the many wealthy relatives whom she has ordered to fan out into the philanthropic world, assigning them to various boards and charities, even making her pitch at the family Thanksgiving dinner.
She has an Old World modesty, too.
She was one of three children raised by her mother after her father, a military officer, was killed in World War I.
After a year at Marymount College of Virginia in Arlington she dropped out because, she said, ''I wanted to do something, be somewhere, I wanted to be an actress, and to be one, you had to know something of the world.
Ms. Reagan's most active political years were in the 1980's, when she was a member of the California World Trade Commission, chairwoman of the United States delegation to the United Nations Decade for Women Conference in Kenya, in 1985; co-chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, and chairwoman of the Republican Women's Political Action League.
''
        Nora Clemens Sayre was born on Sept. 20, 1932, in Hamilton, Bermuda, the only child of Joel Sayre, a staff writer and war correspondent for The New Yorker and occasional Hollywood screenwriter -- he wrote ''Annie Oakley'' (1935) for Barbara Stanwyck and was a co-writer on ''Gunga Din'' (1939) -- and Gertrude (Lynahan) Sayre, a reporter for The New York World.
''When you're not giving parties and not having the big shots of the world over, you're not invited,'' she said.
At Mrs. Scull's prompting, they found it in Manhattan, where, with the rise of Abstract Expressionism, the art world was beginning to generate glamor and profits.
At first the Sculls collected Abstract Expressionists but in the early 1960's discovered a world of newer, younger artists like Warhol, Robert Morris, Mark di Suvero and Larry Poons.
Their patronage established the Sculls, at first considered upstarts in the art world, as big-time players.
They established a base in East Hampton, N.Y., then the art world's summer summit.
In the 1940 ''Letter to the World,'' Graham's lyrical but fierce  meditation on Emily Dickinson and her poetry, Ms. Dudley was the Ancestress, a symbol of death and of the Puritan heritage.
Among the most prominent and successful exhibitors in the horse world, the Wheelers won thousands of blue ribbons, an average of 200 to 300 each year.
During World War II, while serving in the French resistance, Ms. Brée became a friend of Albert Camus.
During World War II, she took a leave from Bryn Mawr, where she was teaching at the time, to fight for the Free French.
During World War II, while serving in the French resistance, Ms. Brée became a friend of Albert Camus.
During World War II, she took a leave from Bryn Mawr, where she was teaching at the time, to fight for the Free French.
Dr. Almy's early research convinced her that play was essential to healthy development and an ideal way for children to start learning the ways of the world around them.

        Berry Berenson Perkins, a photographer and eclectic fashion plate of the 1970's before she settled into marriage with the actor Anthony Perkins, was killed on Tuesday, a passenger on American Airlines Flight 11, which was the first jetliner to strike the World Trade Center, a spokeswoman for the family said.
Ms. Perkins was educated in Switzerland, France and Italy, traveled widely and was introduced to the famous people in her mother's and grandmother's social world.
Whatever the chronology, Mrs. Crawford's contribution to the world of drill teams looms large.
That performance won Ms. Foster another Obie in addition to a Theater World Award, and officially established her as a formidable classical actress.
Their next, ''One-Man Show,'' which had a brief run on Broadway in 1945, was set in the world of art dealers and was about the relationship between a father and daughter.
Person, her musical partner of more than 30 years, Ms. Jones toured the country, still playing often to primarily black audiences, but also by the late 90's appearing twice a year at the Village Vanguard in Manhattan and at international jazz festivals; she was an evergreen presence in the New York jazz world, and kept up her concert schedule until two weeks before her death.
During World War II, Lady Jean worked in the Child Recovery Bureau of the Women's Voluntary Service finding homes for orphans, while her husband performed secret missions as a soldier in China.

        Eileen Shanahan, a reporter for The New York Times who broke ground in the male-dominated world of economic news and later a news executive at other papers, died here today.

        Mary Kay Ash, who built a billion-dollar beauty empire from a $5,000 investment in 1963, and who motivated hundreds of thousands of consultants around the world with a combination of rewards, recognition and religion, died yesterday at her home in Dallas.
The couple had three children before he left to serve in World War II.
I don't think God wanted a world in which a woman would have to work 14 hours a day to support her family, as my mother had done.
She married Mr. Capa in 1940 and for 30 years accompanied him around the world on his assignments for Life magazine and the Magnum photo agency.

        Mary Kay Ash, who built a billion-dollar beauty empire from a $5,000 investment in 1963 and who motivated hundreds of thousands of consultants around the world with a combination of rewards, recognition and religion, died Thursday at her home in Dallas.
The couple had three children before he left to serve in World War II.
I don't think God wanted a world in which a woman would have to work 14 hours a day to support her family, as my mother had done.
If Ms. Donovan, the last of a trilogy of great fashion dames that included Mrs. Vreeland and Carmel Snow of Bazaar, reigned in a small world, she now had fans everywhere.
By the time Ms. Donovan graduated from Parsons School of Design in 1950, she had formed friendships with two of the world's leading dressmakers, Norman Norell and Jacques Fath.

        Erica Van Acker, whose experience was the basis of a pioneering public television documentary on rape in 1971 and who became an early public spokeswoman for those who had been raped, died on Sept. 11 in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
The Eniac was demonstrated in February 1946, too late for use in World War II, but it helped open the door to modern computing.
The committee's work was seen as a temporary solution to the growing problem created by the increasing need for a standard programming language for handling business data at a time when computing was moving into the mainstream of the corporate world.
She also oversaw research, helped select the objects and contributed to the catalogs for ''In Pursuit of Beauty: Americans and the Aesthetic Movement'' (1987) and ''American Paradise: The World of the Hudson River School'' (1988).
Exploring what she called mythic landscapes, Ms. Hubley used primitive myths, magic and music and, in three classic films, the recorded voices of her four young children to comment on the world as it was, is and should be.
Because World War II had emptied the studios of young men, she got a job as a messenger at Columbia.
''Step by Step'' (1979) projects mother love against the impossibility of protecting children in a world of foul water and limited food.
''The Big Bang and Other Creation Myths'' gives no more credence to the scientific explanation of the beginning of the world than it does to half a dozen primitive beliefs.

        Laurie Johnston, a World War II correspondent, an author and a reporter for The New York Times who was cited for the humanity and wit of her writing, died at her home in Honolulu on Friday.
''She spent her last few days walking around the World Trade Center site,'' Ms. Johnston said, ''and arrived in Honolulu quite frail but wearing an 'I Love New York' T-shirt.
During World War II, she covered the Pacific from Pearl Harbor and was one of the few women accredited to report on both the Army and the Navy.

        Megan Boyd, whose fabled expertise at tying enchantingly delicate fishing flies put her work in museums and the hands of collectors around the world and prompted Queen Elizabeth II to award her the British Empire Medal, died Nov. 15 in Golspie, Scotland.
During World War II, she held various jobs, including delivering milk and working for the coast guard auxiliary.
