She left the company at the outbreak of World War II.
During World War II, Dr. Mintz worked in New York as a political and economic analyst for the government-in-exile of the Dutch East Indies.

        Susan Lehman Cullman, a New York philanthropist who served as a Navy cryptographer in World War II, died on Sunday at her home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. She was 79 and also had a home in Manhattan.
She served with the Red Cross in World War II.
She also appeared in "The Cool World" (1960), "Tambourines to Glory" (1963) and a revival of "The Madwoman of Chaillot" (1970) in New York theaters.
That same year, Miss Novotna appeared in Fred Zinnemann's film "The Search," as a mother seeking her lost son at the end of World War II.
Her television credits include "The Brighter Day," "Another World" and "As the World Turns.
Her television credits include "The Brighter Day," "Another World" and "As the World Turns.

        Tiana Lemnitz, a German soprano who was a major interpreter of opera and lieder in Europe after World War I, died on Feb. 5 in Berlin.

        Princess Lucie Jadot Shirazi, a founder of the World Wildlife Fund, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.

        Marjorie Keller Sitney, an independent film maker whose works have been shown at museums, festivals and film institutes around the world, died on Thursday in Winter Haven, Fla. She was 43 and lived in Wakefield, R.I.
Miss Lane's 1975 book "Samuel Johnson and his World" has been called one of the very best modern works on Johnson.
"
        In 1940, after leaving the art-gallery world, she married Mr. Lasker, who had achieved wealth and eminence as an advertising executive, having joined the Lord & Thomas advertising agency in 1898 and become its owner in 1908.
She trained in her native England as a classical dancer and came to this country after World War I with Beatrice Lilly and Charlot's Theatrical Revue.
She worked with teachers in the New York City schools, helping them to organize the learning process in ways intended to make the classroom more responsive to young pupils as they struggle to make sense of the world.
She conducted extensive seminars in Europe, Africa and lectured at colleges around the world.
Miss Shore's career, which spanned more than 50 years, embraced radio, pop records and television, and reached its zenith in the 1950's and 60's when she appeared four times in a Gallup Poll of the most admired women in the world.
1 hit in 1944 with "I'll Walk Alone," a quintessential World War II song of longing.
During World War II she managed the large McMillan family farm in Maryland while her husband served in the Navy in the Pacific.
Perhaps her most controversial thesis was that the world was at peace during the Stone Age, when goddesses were worshiped and societies were centered on women.
Earlier in her career she worked as advertising director of Harvey World Famous Comics Inc., which had been founded by her future husband, Alfred Harvey.
Ms. Zetterling was directing the film "The Woman Who Cleaned the World," which she had written, when she died.
Active in Organizations
        Mrs. Sommers was best known in the dance world for the energetic way she championed a wide variety of causes and organizations in the United States and abroad.
She entered the business world in 1947 when she converted a retail store in Cincinnati into a dance-supply business.
She played opposite Victor McLaglen in "The Cock Eyed World" (1929); Gary Cooper in "Fighting Caravans" (1931); Adolphe Menjou, Laurence Olivier and Erich von Stroheim in "Friends and Lovers" (1931), and Jack Buchanan in "Brewster's Millions" (1935).
As a teen-ager, she danced and sang for the troops in World War I.
Mrs. Fulcher traveled all over the world, guiding Christian education tours in the 60's and 70's.
One of the world's leading authorities on ancient cylinder seals, she organized and directed Columbia's excavations on the Phlamoudhi plain near the Mediterranean in northeastern Cyprus in the early 1970's.
Mrs. Wolff, who was regarded by her colleagues in the international book world as the grande dame of letters, published greatly acclaimed and successful works under the imprint "A Helen and Kurt Wolff Book," which she established with her husband at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich in 1961.
Arriving Poor in New York
        After World War I, she attended boarding schools in Vienna and discovered that she had a gift for languages, including English.
The relatively inexpensive reproductions of European styles begun in the late 1940's, after World War II had disrupted the couture operations in Paris, and couturiers were eager to have their styles publicized.
Only Christian Dior would not let its name be used, but the fashion world soon discovered the identity behind Dior's pseudonym, Monsieur X.
        Yves Saint Laurent, Hubert de Givenchy, Chanel and Balenciaga were some of the designers whose work was shown repeatedly.
"Hunting is all part of the macho world," she once told an interviewer.
Left Rockefeller Job
        In 1962, she was the hostess of a five-minute radio show called "A Woman's World," in which she talked about food, clothes, child rearing, family relationships, teen-agers and the aged.
Although she was one of the world's most famous women -- an object of fascination to generations of Americans and the subject of countless articles and books that re-explored the myths and realities of the Kennedy years, the terrible images of the President's 1963 assassination in Dallas, and her made-for-tabloids marriage to the wealthy Mr. Onassis -- she was a quintessentially private person, poised and glamorous, but shy and aloof.
And in public, what the world saw was a figure of admirable self-control, a black-veiled widow who walked beside the coffin to the tolling drums with her head up, who reminded 3-year-old John Jr. to salute at the service and who looked with solemn dignity upon the proceedings.
But they were married in 1968, and for a time the world saw a new, more outgoing Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis.
"It was this watertight, interior suffisance, coupled with a need for attention, and corresponding love of being at center stage, which puzzled her relatives so and which in time would alternately charm and perplex the world," Mr. Davis wrote.
Her natural gifts could not save her from the effects of her parents' divorce, and after it occurred, Mr. Davis said, her relatives noticed her "tendency to withdraw frequently into a private world of her own.

        Dorothy H. Davis, one of the elite group of female pilots who won their wings and the respect of their male colleagues flying military aircraft during World War II, died on Wednesday at her home in San Francisco.
Miss Davis was one of the women who volunteered for pilot training and flew missions testing searchlight defenses, towing targets for gunnery training and ferrying planes around the world during the war.
The Wasps, as the female pilots were widely called, were disbanded at the end of World War II and their contributions to the war effort were largely ignored.
Improvement Act in 1977, which led to official recognition of the Wasps as having been in active military service during World War II.
Ms. Gair was the executive producer of an hourlong program of world news and public affairs on WBEZ-FM, the National Public Radio affiliate in Chicago.
"Sondra called the world, from the king of Greece to cabdrivers.
Her husband, a Pulitzer Prize-winning war correspondent of World War II, died in 1991.
      

        Yvonne Istel, a volunteer worker during World Wars I and II on both sides of the Atlantic, died on Saturday in Paris.
In World War I, she was active in an organization in France aiding prisoners of war.
In World War II she helped NBC broadcast a short-wave news program to Italy.
In World War II she helped NBC broadcast a short-wave news program to Italy.
The Milgrim shop emphasized quality dresses that were ready to wear at a time when high fashion was still a world of made-to-order styles and custom-made tailored suits.
In World War II she worked in Cyprus to preserve excavation records against war damage.
Mrs. Baan's job covered all aspects of administering the two disciplines for the United States Equestrian Team, with headquarters in Gladstone, N.J. She managed the teams for the North American Dressage Championships in 1985 and 1989; the 1986 World Dressage Championships, and the 1989 and 1991 Pairs World Driving Championships.
Mrs. Baan's job covered all aspects of administering the two disciplines for the United States Equestrian Team, with headquarters in Gladstone, N.J. She managed the teams for the North American Dressage Championships in 1985 and 1989; the 1986 World Dressage Championships, and the 1989 and 1991 Pairs World Driving Championships.
She was a volunteer ambulance driver at Travis Air Force Base when she met Walter Shorenstein, who was stationed there during World War II.
Other books by Dr. Gordon included "Barrier to World Trade" (1941), "The Economics of Welfare Policies" (1963), "Retraining and Labor Market Adjustment in Western Europe" (1965), and "Youth Education and Unemployment Problems: An International Perspective" (1979).
In World War II she worked in the Federal Government's Office of Price Administration.
During World War II, she was a Red Cross social worker at Army hospitals in Virginia and Massachusetts.
" Recreating Lost Worlds
        In an interview late in her life, Miss Haslip, who also wrote well-received biographies of men, said that in a good work of historical biography, "a whole vanished world is brought back to life.
Miss Williams began performing as a soloist in the mid-1960's, appearing at churches and colleges and touring the world.
Mrs. Klein was born in Vienna and immigrated to New York shortly before World War II.
After narrowly failing to make the 1988 United States Olympic gymnastics team, Ms. Henrich, a hard-driving competitor who was only 4 feet 10 inches tall, placed fourth in the unequal parallel bars event in the 1989 world championships.
The State Department once sent her on a six-month lecture tour around the world.
" 'Wedding Band'
        One of her plays was "Wedding Band," an interracial love story set in Charleston, S.C., at the time of World War I. Ms. Childress wrote the play in 1965 but was unable to find a New York producer until the New York Shakespeare Festival presented it in 1972.
"Thanks to two world wars, they were losing their way of life, too, just as the Virginians had.
The poet and teacher Myra Cohn Livingston wrote of Ms. Worth's work in The New York Times Book Review in 1988, "The treasures Ms. Worth offers do not lie in some distant, golden land but in the everyday world.
"
        After World War II began in Europe in 1939, she found herself in a minority in Congress in voting against expanding the Navy.
Under her stewardship of the WAVES (an acronym for Women Accepted for Voluntary Emergency Service), navy women in World War II worked as flight instructors, weather observers, truck drivers and air traffic controllers.
Still Working in Her 80's
        Mrs. Parish stayed on as a partner in the firm into her 80's, proving to be a notably durable member of a pioneer cohort of American women who came to prominence as interior decorators between the two world wars.
As the design editor Elaine Greene wrote later in The New York Times, "when shown in the January 1967 issue of House & Garden, the house dazzled decorators the way Christian Dior's 1947 New Look did the fashion world.
Comparing Ms. Clampitt to Hopkins, Marianne Moore and Elizabeth Bishop, critics noted her pinpoint descriptions of the natural world that led to unexpected metaphysical insights and conclusions.
THEATER  Hamlet (1934)  King Lear (1940)  Portrait of a Madonna (1946)  A Streetcar Named Desire (1947)  The Fourposter (1951)  Five Finger Exercise (1959)  The Gin Game (1977)  The Glass Menagerie (1983)  The Petition (1986)  FILM  The Seventh Cross (1944)  Forever Amber (1947)  September Affair (1950)  The Desert Fox (1951)  The Light in the Forest (1958)  The Birds (1963)  Butley (1974)  Still of the Night (1982)  The World According to Garp (1982)  The Bostonians (1984)  Cocoon (1985)  Driving Miss Daisy (1989)  Fried Green Tomatoes (1991)  TELEVISION  Foxfire (1987)  The Story Lady (1991)  To Dance With the White Dog (1993)
        Correction:  September 14, 1994, Wednesday
        A picture caption on Monday with the obituary of Jessica Tandy referred incorrectly in some editions to her appearance in the film "Driving Miss Daisy.

        Faith Cardwell Davis, who with her sisters Hope Cardwell Brock and Charity Cardwell Lawson had been listed in the Guinness Book of Records as the world's oldest complete set of triplets, died on Sunday at Rolling Plains Memorial Hospital in Sweetwater, Tex.
During World War II, she began entertaining troops, and the 1944 film "Four Jills in a Jeep" was based on a U.S.O.

        Gertrude Russek Nemerov, whose family founded and ran the Russeks Fifth Avenue department store in Manhattan and whose children won fame in the world of arts and letters, died on Tuesday in Albuquerque, N.M. She was 93.
In a speech in 1965, Mrs. Roebling said: "As a woman who for years has competed in the business world, I would be the first to agree that the American woman has almost unbelievable economic power, but American women, like women of all civilized nations, do not use the influence their economic power gives them.
But in 1978, when she became chairwoman of the Women's Bank, she argued that there still was a place in the business world for banks that were operated specifically for female customers.
Over the years, Mrs. Roebling was variously a director of the Tattersall Corporation, the Standard Fire Insurance Company and the Colonial Operating Company, in Trenton, among other concerns; an officer of the New York World's Fair Corporation in 1964 and 1965; a member of the National Business Council on Consumer Affairs and of the Boy Scouts of America's national advisory council, and an active participant in other nonprofit organizations.
"Dance has been my freedom and my world," she said in 1991.
The medieval-style 1840's window was restored under her direction and given on extended loan to the museum, where it hangs in the Charles Engelhard Court of the American Wing
        Miss Hayward served as a technical illustrator for the United States Navy during World War II.
" She appeared in many other Broadway productions, including "Kiss Me Kate," "Show Boat," "Kwamina," "70, Girls, 70," "No, No, Nanette" and "Porgy and Bess," with which she traveled for its entire three-and-a-half-year world tour.
The next day, the ankle held up, and with her fluid running style she won her semifinal in 11.3 seconds, equaling the world record.
She won the final easily in 11.0 seconds, but the following wind of 6.15 miles an hour (the allowable limit is 4.47) precluded recognition as a world record.
In the 400-meter relay, with college teammates running the first three legs, she helped set a world record of 44.4 seconds in a heat.

        Dr. Lucy Shields Morgan, a groundbreaking educator in public health and an adviser to the World Health Organization, died on Friday at the Deerfield Episcopal Retirement Center in Asheville, N.C. She was 93.
In addition to her teaching, Dr. Morgan worked with the World Health Organization and traveled abroad to help develop educational programs.
She received a medical degree from the University of London's School of Medicine for Women and after World War II she joined the National Health Service.
A journalist whose career began as the country's production was shifting into new technologies and goods after World War II, she wrote about consumers' needs as well as manufacturers' responsibilities.
When World War II broke out, she was working in the Netherlands, dancing in a cabaret in The Hague, according to Jean-Claude Baker's book about his adoptive mother, "Josephine: The Hungry Heart.
Explaining her approach, she once said, "My vision is a world of accessible intuition.
During World War II, she led a Veterans Administration program to restructure its staff and student training.
During World War II, when the president, Mildred McAfee Horton, went on leave to become the first director of the WAVES, Ms. Whiting shared the responsibilities of the office of the president, heading panels on curriculum and instruction and faculty publications.
She was a member of the editorial boards of ORBIS, a Journal of World Affairs; Asian Affairs, an American Review, and the Review for Comparative Study of Civilization.
A lawyer who became the owner and operator of a business school in St. Louis, Miss Hickey was prominent in World War II as chairwoman of the Women's Advisory Committee of the national War Manpower Commission, from 1942 to 1945.
"
        So the fashion world was startled to learn yesterday that Mme.
Bernadine Morris wrote in The New York Times: "A nonagenarian, she is one of the great female designers who dominated haute couture in Paris until after World War II, when the men took over.
During World War II, she started her own house, called Gres, one of only 20 that stayed open throughout the war.
The park opened in 1971 and since then has been home to performances by some of the world's great musicians, dancers, singers and actors.
Unlike them, Ms. Zahn was a direct disciple of Elizabeth Duncan, who directed her sister's school in Grunewald, Germany, before World War I.
During World War II, she worked for the Federal Security Agency, helping to organize arrangements for war workers and was a race and human relations consultant.
But she was known internationally for her work with the disabled, traveling the world to speak, raise funds and visit hospitals and refugee camps.
"
        Among Professor Oppenheim's other books was "The Other World: Spiritualism and Psychical Research in England, 1850-1914" (Cambridge, 1985), which the journal Victorian Studies called "a major contribution to the history of ideas.
