Ms. Wesley created ''an idiosyncratic fictional world, a middle-class English world,'' Michiko Kakutani wrote, reviewing the novel ''Second Fiddle'' in The New York Times in 1989.
Ms. Wesley created ''an idiosyncratic fictional world, a middle-class English world,'' Michiko Kakutani wrote, reviewing the novel ''Second Fiddle'' in The New York Times in 1989.
She worked in the War Office during World War II, and her later writings reflected her wartime experiences.
During World War II, she worked as a go-between for the French Resistance, but was arrested by the Gestapo in 1943 and imprisoned at Fresnes until liberation the following year.
''God, how the French love rules,'' she noted in one book, ''The Rumor of the World.
It came with several rejection slips, but its theme of the tough but idealistic American and his bar in Morocco seemed to her a perfect fit for the world news of the day.
''
        Ms. Brian said she gained a new perspective on life during World War II when she entertained troops, venturing closer to the front lines in Europe than most headliners.
A symbolic trial, it found Emperor Hirohito ultimately responsible for the policy by which the Japanese military forced Asian women into sexual slavery during World War II.
Ms. Matsui was in the forefront of efforts to make Japanese school textbooks deal more openly with the realities of World War II.
The Women's Museum, tentatively set to open in Tokyo in 2006, is to include a library and video archive documenting the fate of ''comfort women'' and violence against women in conflicts around the world.
''
        After Emmett's death, Mrs. Mobley recently told The Times, ''at first, I just wanted to go in a hole and hide my face from the world.
''
        Ms. McClendon served as a public relations lieutenant in the Women's Army Corps in World War II, and she diligently covered the Veterans Administration, later the Department of Veterans Affairs.
''
        During World War II, Miss Ellis spent three years working as an ambulance driver and a practical nurse.

        Annemarie Schimmel, who became fascinated with the Muslim world after hearing Arabian tales as a child and went on to become one of the 20th century's most influential scholars of Islam, died last Sunday in Bonn.
She wrote more than 50 books and hundreds of articles published around the world.
''That is not my world,'' she once said.
In awarding the prize, Roman Herzog, then president of Germany, called Ms. Schimmel ''one of the few Western scholars who is able and ready to think herself totally into the mental world of this different culture.
In World War II, she invented a machine to sort unused rivets that were being scrapped by aircraft companies and developed a device for smoothing the edges of machined metal.
She wrote frequently about commodities for newspapers, although sometimes under her husband's name, and published ''Food Supplies in the Aftermath of World War II'' in 1993.
After World War II she worked with her husband, Benjamin Ginsburg, at Ginsburg & Levy, his family's antiques firm, at 815 Madison Ave., in Manhattan.
The Rothschilds were childhood sweethearts and became engaged before World War II.
''
        Baroness de Rothschild was a frequent presence in the world of haute couture.
She was also important in the art world, particularly as a recognized expert on 18th-century art.
''
        She was also one of the original stars of ''As the World Turns.
She won a Theater World Award for her performance.

        Barbara Doyle Duncan, who collected, exhibited and wrote about modern Latin American art when the field was still little known to much of the United States art world, died on March 28 at her home in New York.

        Rose Augustine, a former chemistry teacher who with her husband revolutionized the world of the classical guitar by developing the nylon guitar string and who commissioned new works and underwrote concert series and competitions, died on April 21 in Manhattan.
She became a high school science teacher but went into the string business after World War II when her husband, a guitar maker, found that the gut strings traditionally used for the guitar's three treble strings were in short supply.
After her husband died in 1967, she took over the company, regularly updated its manufacturing processes and established a thriving market for her strings around the world.
As she wrote in her 1986 autobiography, ''Zorina,'' she became involved at 18 in an open ménage à trois that included Massine, then the world's best-known choreographer, and his wife, Eugenia Delarova.
Pepper LaBeija was a legend to the members and patrons of the Harlem ball scene, a world of extravagant make-believe that crosses sexual boundaries and that was chronicled in ''Paris Is Burning,'' directed by Jennie Livingston.
For most of her life, Miss LaBeija's world was the balls.
Known in the advertising world as Frankie, Ms. Cadwell used her prominent position to press for changes in how women and older people appeared in advertising.
Ms. Collins's next triumph came the following year on Broadway in the Cole Porter musical ''Out of This World.
She then appeared in Shakespearean parts at the 1933-34 Chicago World's Fair.
Hale's daughter Sunny Hale is one of the leading women's players in the world, having competed with men at polo's premier event, the United States Open.
She competed under the name A. Jones, her real identity known only to her teammates at first, although it eventually became clear in the polo world that A. Jones was really Hale.
But her friends in the polo world applied pressure as well -- a lawsuit was threatened, as she recalled -- and in 1972 the association admitted her as its first woman.
In the period just after World War II, models were becoming celebrities.
Fashion's influence was inexorably expanding from high society to society at large, and Suzy Parker, along with other models like Dovima and Lisa Fonssagrives, signified a postwar world of stylish promise for all.
She also designed for opera, notably for the Metropolitan Opera's 1977 production of ''Lulu,'' for which her sets and costumes evoked a world touched by the Bauhaus, Art Moderne and German bourgeois styles.
''
        In World War II, Dame Wendy went on extensive factory tours throughout Britain, appearing as Viola in ''Twelfth Night.
Although her academic background was in the humanities and the social sciences, she was generally comfortable in the world of science, especially biology.

        Elizabeth Fowler, who wrote a harrowing book about being the only woman among 35 passengers on a lifeboat in the Atlantic Ocean for 10 days during World War II, died on May 30 at a convalescent home in West Orange, N.J. She was 95.
She was an Army telegraph operator during World War II and attended the Art Students League in Manhattan.
Ms. Heldman, the founder, publisher and editor of World Tennis magazine, began playing tennis at age 25.
She started World Tennis magazine in 1953 as a forum for the sport's views and problems.
She arranged for the Houston Racquet Club to sponsor a tournament and had nearly all the players in the group sign $1 contracts with World Tennis to play in the tournament.
5 in the world in 1969 and 1974.
''I'm amazed by the amount of goodness in the world.
''
        During World War II she entertained British troops with John Gielgud.
''I never knew there was anything in the world I couldn't do.
And because she studied as a child with Jan Chiapusso, a Dutch-Italian concert pianist born in Java, she was introduced to the sounds of the gamelan and a variety of Asian and African instruments decades before the current interest in world music.
Their immediate cause was to forestall a projected dig for the world's largest hydroelectric power plant, which would have forever changed the dramatic face of Storm King Mountain, looming above the Hudson in Orange County.
Starting in 1943, she published a considerable oeuvre of her own even as she became a celebrated interpreter of the mystical poet William Blake to the English-speaking world.
She declined, saying she had landed the ''best job in the museum world'' at the Modern.
She worked in a medical laboratory, did science research for Time magazine, served with the Naval Reserve in Washington in World War II and studied art history at Vassar College.
She created roles in Graham dances, including ''American Document,'' ''Every Soul Is a Circus,'' ''Letter to the World,'' ''Punch and the Judy,'' ''Deaths and Entrances'' and ''Appalachian Spring.

        Jinx Falkenburg, one of America's highest paid cover-girl models during World War II, and later, with her husband, Tex McCrary, a pioneer talk-show star on both radio and television, died on Wednesday in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 84 and lived in the nearby village of Mill Neck.

        Mary Viscountess Eccles, a bibliophile who built up what is widely considered the world's finest collection of rare books and manuscripts relating to Samuel Johnson and his biographer and friend, James Boswell, died on Aug. 26 at her home, Four Oakes Farm, in Somerset County, N.J. She was 91.
Lady Eccles, the American widow of Viscount Eccles, a British politician, businessman and bibliophile who once headed the British Library in London, was first drawn to the world of the Elizabethan theater but later switched her interest and the focus of her collecting to Johnson and Boswell and their circle.
The library also houses the Johnson material from the collection of James Boswell's papers found at Malahide Castle in Ireland, which she bought from the American collector Col. Ralph H. Isham at the end of World War II; Boswell's guestbook from his home at Auchinleck, Scotland; Johnson's diaries for the years 1765 to about 1784; the private journal of Hester Thrale, Johnson's great friend and benefactor; and a collection known as the R. B. Adam Library Relating to Dr. Samuel Johnson and His Era, which she bought from the Adam family of Buffalo in 1948, and which was then regarded as the best in existence.
''
        Lady Mosley's stubborn fascism and her unrepentant admiration for Hitler -- he and Josef Goebbels were guests at her wedding to Sir Oswald, in Berlin in 1936 -- made her a figure of hate to the British during World War II, and to some extent for the rest of her life.
Lady Diana Mosley was born the Honorable Diana Mitford in 1910, the third of the six Mitford girls (a brother, Tom, was killed in World War II).
Unity, another sister, became a fanatical fascist, befriended Hitler and was so distraught when Britain entered World War II that she shot herself in the head, botching the suicide attempt but suffering extensive brain damage.
After recovering, Dr. Magno went to England, where the world's first research and teaching hospice was established in 1967.
Before the Waves, neither the women who served in World War I nor Navy nurses were permitted to become officers.
''She was regarded as probably the foremost feather identification expert in the world.
Earlier, Ms. Younes served as chief of protocol at the biggest gathering of world leaders the United Nations has every held, the meeting of 150 kings, presidents, prime ministers and dictators at its headquarters in New York in September 2000.
And a mysterious figure identified as Count Carlo Marullo di Condojanni of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta somehow got himself into the official photo of world leaders.
In 2002 she transferred to the World Health Organization in Geneva, where she took charge of external relations for Gro Harlem Brundtland, then the director general.
''The world today, it's disturbed.

        Althea Gibson emerged in the tennis world of the 1950's as a most unlikely queen of the lawns of Wimbledon and Forest Hills.
supervisor, bought her two rackets and introduced her to friends at the Cosmopolitan Tennis Club, a predominantly black club that played on courts on 149th Street just a few blocks away but a world removed from the neighborhood she had known.
In 1949, a year after Dr. Benjamin Weir had become the first black to play in a United States Lawn Tennis Association title event -- the 1948 National Indoor Championships -- Gibson took her first steps beyond the world of the black tennis circuit, making it to the semifinals of the Eastern Indoor Championships and then to the semifinals of the national championships.
Among the other roles she sang with the Brussels company were the Composer in Strauss's ''Ariadne auf Naxos,'' Hermione in the 1999 world premiere of Philippe Boesmans's ''Wintermärchen'' and Desdemona in Verdi's ''Otello,'' a part she also performed in a new production of that opera at the Glyndebourne Festival in July 2001.
She worked for the publisher Harcourt Brace World before joining Curtis Brown.
She also said that her idealized image of him fell apart ''far too late,'' near the end of World War II.
When the games began, she had to cover 136 events because, she recalled, ''we never knew when a world record would be broken.
For example, in the early 1940's she originated the International Best-Dressed List, an expanded version of a Paris best-dressed list that was suspended during World War II.
In London during World War II, she treated soldiers returning from Dunkirk and victims of the blitz.
She then became president and chief executive of World Learning Inc., a nonprofit organization with programs in 110 countries.
World Learning established a scholarship in her honor shortly before her death.

        Madame Chiang Kai-shek, a pivotal player in one of the 20th century's great epics -- the struggle for control of post-imperial China waged between the Nationalists and the Communists during the Japanese invasion and the violent aftermath of World War II -- died on Thursday in New York City, the Foreign Ministry of Taiwan reported early Friday.
During World War II, Madame Chiang emerged as China's most important ambassador, frequently charming American visitors like Wendell Wilkie, the Republican politician, who came to China in 1942 after losing a presidential campaign against Roosevelt in 1940.
Only in 1971 did the United Nations allow the government of the world's most populous country to be represented, a prelude to President Nixon's trip to Beijing in 1972.

        Madame Chiang Kai-shek, a pivotal figure in one of the 20th century's great epics -- the struggle for control of post-imperial China waged between the Nationalists and the Communists during the Japanese invasion and the violent aftermath of World War II -- died on Thursday in Manhattan, the Foreign Ministry of Taiwan reported yesterday.
During World War II, the relationship between General Stilwell, Chiang and Madame Chiang proved contentious.
Her last public appearance was believed to be in January 2000, when she attended an exhibition of her watercolor paintings of traditional Chinese landscapes at the Queens headquarters of the World Journal, a prominent local Chinese newspaper.
Among her other Broadway shows were ''The Flowering Peach,'' ''The Happiest Girl in the World'' and Michael V. Gazzo's ''Night Circus,'' a 1958 production with Ben Gazzara, whom she later married.
In World War II, Mrs. Love served as president of the American Women's Voluntary Service.
''
        Often adorned by Mainbocher, Givenchy and Adolfo, she was chosen by the New York Dress Institute as one of the best-dressed women in the world early in the 1950's and remained on the list for years until her elevation to the Fashion Hall of Fame.
The project, jointly sponsored by the United States Information Agency and the United States Forest Service, was a memorial to members of the Army Air Force who were killed in World War II.
''
        Often adorned by Mainbocher, Givenchy and Adolfo, she was chosen by the New York Dress Institute as one of the best-dressed women in the world early in the 1950's and remained on the list for years until her elevation to the Fashion Hall of Fame.
The project, jointly sponsored by the United States Information Agency and the United States Forest Service, was a memorial to members of the Army Air Forces who were killed in World War II.
''It is a bare, sepia world, a cruel world of jagged, parched hills, dry riverbeds and distant villages where clumps of low houses cling together at the edges of riverbanks.
''It is a bare, sepia world, a cruel world of jagged, parched hills, dry riverbeds and distant villages where clumps of low houses cling together at the edges of riverbanks.
In the early 1920's, as a competitive swimmer, she set women's world freestyle records and American freestyle records for various distances from 100 to 800 meters.
Between 1921 and 1925, she held 29 amateur national and world records.
Fourteen hours 31 minutes later, a world record, Ederle reached Kingsdown on the English coast.
Doctors told her she would neither walk nor swim again, but in 1939 she appeared in Billy Rose's Aquacade at the New York World's Fair.
When World War II began, Ederle took a job working for an airline at La Guardia Airport.

        Isabelle Stevenson, the president of the American Theater Wing for more than 30 years, its chairwoman for the last five years and one of the best-known figures in the theater world, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan, her daughter Laura said.
The Tony Awards were founded by the Theater Wing in 1947 and named for Antoinette Perry, a former chairwoman who ran the organization during World War II.

        Priscilla Comins Kidder, who rose to prominence as Priscilla of Boston, outfitting young brides as their numbers soared after World War II in embellished dresses that became synonymous with American matrimonial style, died on Sunday at her home in Winchester, Mass.
While she studied art, Mr. Russell, whom she had met at Teaneck High School, pursued her with a romantic diligence from the South Pacific, where he served in World War II as a radioman aboard seaplane tenders.
He once addressed a letter to her ''The Most Beautiful Girl in the World, Bronxville, New York.
When Ms. Winant (pronounced WYE-nant) moved to New York from California after World War II to find work on Broadway, she was hired as a production assistant for ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' and ''Death of a Salesman.
