''We are hoping to get helpers in every town and school district throughout the world,'' said Barbara Dorsey, Ms. Plummer's daughter, who said she plans to continue with her mother's work.

        Jean MacArthur, the widow of Gen. Douglas MacArthur, who remained at her husband's side through the darkest days of World War II and was often introduced by him as ''my finest soldier,'' died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
After World War II she escaped to Taiwan, where she taught and wrote.
''She was very intelligent, enjoyed her own unique views of Los Angeles and the world of politics, and didn't mind sharing those views.
He watched her read her lines one day and declared that she was either ''the most beautiful girl in the world'' or ''the most beautiful girl in Europe.
She worked in a law office before becoming an assistant editor at John Bernard Myers's literary journal View and an assistant to Frances Steloff at the Gotham Book Mart, jobs that introduced her to the world of poets, artists and intellectuals involved in dance in the 1940's.
''
        After World War II, the newspaper said, she was released from a prison in southern Germany.
''
        Ms. Wolf said she lost interest in the party during World War II, as the wartime boom made issues of economic security less compelling to her.
Her reputation grew, and she became a frequent public speaker (many of her speeches can be found on the World Wide Web at members.tripod.com/HazelWolf).
Only a broken hip prevented her from joining the protests by unions and environmentalists in Seattle during the recent meeting of the World Trade Organization, said Brock Evans, president of the Western Outdoor Clubs.
Later that year, she joined the Times editorial board, commenting on social policy issues like smoking, abortion and assisted suicide, and on whimsical topics such as the world as seen from the M10 bus.
In World War II, Mrs. Greenberg worked as a government censor.
Married in 1929, the Mottahedehs began acquiring Oriental porcelains, ivories, jades and bronzes, amassing one of the world's finest private collections with some 2,000 pieces.
In 1958 the couple created a foundation, Mottahedeh Development Services Inc., to help with social and economic development projects in the third world.
''Kirya'' was nominated for a Grammy Award in the World Beat category.
After the United States entered World War II, she was appointed to a committee to design uniforms for women in the armed forces.
But it was the Depression era, and as the country moved toward World War II she was at the center of events during a turbulent period at City Hall.
She saw the mayor's office as ''one of the nerve centers of the world,'' according to an oral history she prepared in the 1980's.
''I was already a national outdoor champion, I was national indoor champion, I had been to the Olympics,'' she recalled in an interview with Runner's World magazine in 1993.
And both Wingard and Madison, who won with a time of 5 minutes 28.5 seconds, broke the previous world record.
Wingard won 20 national freestyle championships, and she held 21 American records and 7 world records in the freestyle.

        Jacqueline Auriol, the glamorous French flier who set several speed records as one of the world's leading military test pilots in the 1950's and 60's, died Saturday at her Paris home.
Ms. Auriol was born to the world of fine boarding schools and country manors and married the son of the man who would become president of France.
When World War II broke out, she refused to leave France while her husband was in the resistance movement.
Those few words summed up a style that was similarly cryptic and to the point, and that reduced the world to a series of simple, blocky shapes and angled planes of clear, ringing color, all dispatched with a crisp, unfettered directness that allowed no reworking.
Miss Cooney honored the admonition she ascribed to her best-loved character, Miss Rumphius, who said, ''You must do something to make the world more beautiful.
The book evokes a lost world where stars lived lives that were breathtakingly glamorous, but still somehow life-sized.
Ms. Washburn was editor, with John S. Major, of ''World Poetry: An Anthology of Verse From Antiquity to Our Time'' (W. W. Norton, 1998), an updated and expanded version of Mark Van Doren's 1928 ''Anthology of World Poetry.
It was filled with the ringing words of preachers addressing the vagaries of the world, from the Sermon on the Mount to Savonarola's contempt for the vanities of Renaissance Florence to the anti-Nazi defiance of the theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer.
The women then won the Canadian and world titles in 1993, 1994 and 1997.
Schmirler was six months pregnant when she won the world title in 1996 and was on maternity leave from her job with a recreation center when the team went to the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano, Japan.
When Robbins created ''Fancy Free'' for Ballet Theater in 1944 he cast her as the young woman who dances a romantic duet with a sailor in a bar during World War II and then wipes her lipstick off his face.
She was a social worker and a dancer and during World War II a welfare officer with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration.

        Gertrude Sanford Legendre, an unlikely debutante of the 1920's who forsook society to become a big-game hunter and then to work during World War II for the Office of Strategic Services, predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency, died on Wednesday at Medway, her historic lantation near Charleston, S.C. She was 97 and also had a home on Fishers Island, off Long Island.
In the course of her long career, she went on about 80 photographic assignments around the world, mainly for Time and Life.
Her dissertation was published as a book by Adrienne Monnier, the Paris bookseller who stood at the center of French literary life in the period between the two world wars.
In a statement, President Jacques Chirac praised her today as ''one of the world's greatest photographers.
Prime Minister Lionel Jospin hailed Ms. Freund as an ''unparalleled sociologist and reporter who traveled the world with a generous and lucid approach to places and events faraway.
Ms. Potter's finely crafted stories offered glimpses into Durham society in the mid-20th century, a world she knew well as a Duke faculty wife.
Beginning in 1927 with a single root beer stand, Mrs. Marriott and her husband, J. Willard Marriott Sr., built one of the world's leading hospitality companies.
Today, many hotel operators consider Marriott the world's top hotel company, with a reputation for treating employees and customers fairly.

        Micheline Glover, who as an 18-year-old girl worked for the French Resistance during World War II, delivering secret messages under the eyes of unwitting German soldiers, died April 15 in White Plains Hospital in White Plains, N.Y. She was 76.

        Margaret E. B. Jones, a retired Army major who served with the only battalion of African-American women to serve overseas in World War II, died on April 11 at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington.
In the years after World War II, Ms. Dillon designed such films as Asquith's ''Way to the Stars'' (1945), ''The Browning Version'' (1951) and ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' (1952), Betty E. Box's ''Doctor in the House'' (1954), Joseph Losey's ''Accident'' (1967) and the 1976 horror film ''The Omen.
At the outbreak of World War II, The Standard made her a war correspondent.
Their work, he said, generated a ''flood of papers'' from scientists around the world and made Mrs. Benesch one of the most-cited women in science in the 1970's.

        Dina Abramowicz, the longtime librarian at the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research whose firsthand and encyclopedic knowledge of the lost Yiddish world of Eastern Europe made her a treasured resource for hundreds of scholars and writers for more than half a century, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
Though less than five feet tall and dainty in an Old World way, Ms. Abramowicz could be flintlike in her insistence upon historical and linguistic accuracy.
She grew up speaking Russian, but when the Germans occupied Vilna during World War I, they allowed Jews to start their own schools, as part of a divide-and-conquer strategy, and Dina's parents sent her to Yiddish-language elementary and high schools.
When the Germans invaded in World War II and crammed Vilna's 56,000 Jews into neighborhood ghettos, Herman Kruk, a librarian, tried to maintain an oasis of normality in the madness by setting up a library, and he asked Ms. Abramowicz to staff it.
In his tribute in ''The World of Our Fathers,'' the classic work about the immigrant Jews of New York,  Mr. Howe thanked YIVO for making the book possible, ''especially its indefatigable and splendid librarian, Dina Abramowicz.

        Barbara Cartland, whose outpouring of more than 700 romance novels during seven decades made her the undisputed queen of a genre for hundreds of millions of readers the world over, died yesterday at her home near Hatfield in Hertfordshire, England.
She has appeared in The Guinness Book of Records as the world's best-selling author, breaking records for 18 years.
''All she knew was that she was close against him and he was kissing her wildly, passionately, demandingly and the world stood still,'' she wrote in ''Fire in the Blood,'' published in 1983.
'' In ''Human Voices'' (1980) she used material from her job at the BBC during World War II.
Another uncle, Dillwyn, was a Greek scholar and cryptographer who helped break German codes in World War I and II.
With her husband, she was editor of ''The World Review,'' a small literary journal.

        Ruth D. Turner, a Harvard professor, author, curator and diver who became one of the world's leading experts in the species of mollusks that devour wooden piers and sunken ships, died on April 30 at a nursing home in Waltham, Mass.
Her study of the worms took her around the world.
The same year she also addressed the 18th World Congress on Early Childhood Education in Jerusalem.
Before and during World War II  she played leading roles in numerous German-language movies sponsored by Joseph Goebbels's Nazi propaganda machine, most notoriously a popular 1941 film called ''Heimkehr'' (''Homecoming'').
Although she also appeared in many postwar movies, she refused invitations to work in Hollywood and her reputation never reached far beyond the German-speaking world.
      
Hildegarde's admirers ranged from enlisted men and officers during World War II to King Gustaf of Sweden and the Prince of Wales, later the Duke of Windsor.
'' They profoundly affected how the world assessed nutritional values, how it investigated dietary deficiencies and how mammalian development was perceived.
'' To deal with the lack of calcium in people's diets because of a cheese shortage during World War II, she and Dr. McCance successfully pressed the government to add chalk to bread.
She was also the only woman in the corps to serve overseas during World War II.

        Vera Atkins, who recruited, trained and watched over the legendary British secret agents who parachuted into France to sabotage the Nazis in World War II, died on Saturday in Hastings, Sussex.
The initial training was at a 16th-century country house where they had no contact with the outside world.
Editors' Note:  July 14, 2000, Friday  An obituary on June 27 about Vera Atkins, who recruited and trained British secret agents sent to France in World War II, reported on her education and upbringing, the methods she used to help train the agents and her intense loyalty to them.
''While Irving Howe was writing 'World of Our Fathers,' she was, in a sense, at work on the world of our mothers,'' Mr. Zeitlin said.
In the mid-1930's Mrs. Rubin began to concentrate seriously on folklore, going on to study with the eminent Yiddish scholar Max Weinreich and, during World War II, translating diaries smuggled out of ghettos and Nazi camps.
''
        Mary Benson was born into the privileged world of country clubs and servants in white South Africa in 1919.
Later she was a co-founder and board member of Women's World Banking, a global loan-guarantee organization.
At the same time, she socialized in Mr. Schwartz's world of Wall Street financiers.

        Ruth Werner, a colorful and successful Soviet spy whose exploits included radioing invaluable atomic bomb data to Moscow in the middle of World War II, died on July 7 in Berlin.

        Nija Battle, who brought a swaggering sense of sophistication to the furs she designed for the music world's most tireless clotheshorses, died last Thursday while on a business trip in Montreal.
For a designer who did not have a store, who often met her future clients at clubs or outside restaurants, and who, until the editor Andre Leon Talley wrote about her in Vogue last year, was almost unknown in the fashion world, Ms. Battle had a large following.
A native of New Haven, Ms. Vlock first learned about the Holocaust in her youth, when her parents, John J. and Rose Greenberg Fox, were aiding its victims during World War II.
Jailed for harboring Jews in Paris during World War II, she escaped and joined the Resistance.
The Holts, who were Baptist, believed with missionary fervor that the world's orphans were the responsibility of American families.
But, Ms. Cox said, Mrs. Holt liked to say that she preferred the  photographs that children sent from all over the world.
In 1996, she set the world record for the 400 meter race in the over-90 age group at the Hayward Classic in Eugene.
      

        Constance Stuart Larrabee, a photographer who recorded the vanishing tribes of southern Africa, the World War II battlefields of Europe and her life on Maryland's tranquil Eastern Shore, died on July 27 at her home in Chestertown, Md.
Known as Constance Stuart earlier in her career, Mrs. Larrabee in 1997 donated her African images to the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of African Art, her World War II pictures to the Corcoran Gallery and her views of the Eastern Shore to the Chesapeake Bay Maritime Museum.
The team won scores of national and world championships, and its members encouraged Reilly to attend college, pointing her on a career that made her a well-known coach and athletic administrator.
In her memoir, she wrote: ''I believe that if we have lived our lives fully and well, and have accomplished, at least in part, the things which we were put here to do, we will be prepared -- mentally, spiritually and physically -- for our separation from this world.

        Frieda Mae Hardin, who joined the Navy during World War I, when women were still denied the right to vote, and at a widely noted ceremony  79 years later symbolized the achievements of all the women in the armed forces, died last Wednesday in Livermore, Calif. She was 103.
Wearing a World War I ''yeomanette'' uniform and a wide-brimmed hat inscribed with ''U.S.
In March 1917, however, with America's entry into World War I imminent, Navy Secretary Josephus Daniels called on women to enlist in the Naval Reserve to free sailors for combat duty.
She was among almost 12,000 women who served in the Navy during World War I as clerks, draftsmen, translators, camouflage designers and recruiters.
)
        By 1920, all the yeomanettes were released from duty, and women would not be permitted to serve in the Navy again until the Waves were established in World War II.
In speaking at the memorial dedication, Mrs. Hardin said that ''a world of opportunity'' awaited women in the military.
''
        Among those in the crowd was a woman named Ann Darr, who had served during World War II in the Women's Air Force Service Pilots, or Wasps.
They also shared an abiding love of opera, and it occurred to them soon after World War II that a company was needed to provide opportunities for aspiring singers returning from military service.
During World War II, she lived in Norway and Berlin.

        Ginetta Sagan, a leader of the American branch of Amnesty International who as a girl fought World War II's injustices in Europe and suffered for it, died last Friday at her home in Atherton, Calif., between San Francisco and San Jose.
Mrs. Sagan, a native of Milan, was active in Italy's anti-Fascist Resistance in World War II and survived torture and imprisonment.
She spent the last few years archiving the photo albums and diaries of her father, Bernhard Bardach, a doctor in the Austro-Hungarian Army during World War I.
Some were used in the 1999 exhibition ''Fighting for the Fatherland: The Patriotism of Jews in World War I.

        Grace Halsell, a journalist whose curiosity about ''a wider world'' led her to experience life on society's fringes by disguising herself as women of different races, died on Aug. 16  in Washington, where she lived.
She wrote about this in her 1969 book, ''Soul Sister,'' in which she described the anonymity and degradation of being a black domestic in a world of white employers, one of whom tried to rape her.
In 1964, Ms. Gordon left the magazine world, angry with the growing intimacy between editorial content and advertising demands.
Travers's editor, Peter Llewelyn Davis (in the tight British literary world he was one of the Lost Boys befriended by J. M. Barrie, and Mr. and Mrs. Banks, the parents in ''Mary Poppins,'' bore more than a passing resemblance to the Darlings of ''Peter Pan''), worried about Miss Shepard's inexperience, but their collaboration had begun.
Miss Shepard was Auntie Mary to Fitzgerald's three children and had only one other relative, Minette Hunt, the daughter of her brother, who was killed in World War II.
During World War II, she did war work as a mechanic in a London factory.
Among his holdings at the time were RKO Studios, Trans World Airlines, Hughes Aircraft and the Hughes Tool Company.
She was regarded as a pioneering figure in the world of journalism, especially because she was working at a time when few women held positions of power within the industry.
She once credited that marriage as her introduction and informal education in the world of journalism, but never considered working in the field until much later.

        Sirimavo Bandaranaike of Sri Lanka, the first woman in the world to serve as a prime minister, died yesterday shortly after voting in Sri Lanka's elections.
Born in Prague into a Jewish banking family, Ms. Bullaty received her first camera at 14, a consolation gift from her father for having to abandon school and normal teenage activities as their world darkened with the approach of war.
''I want to express with it what I see, experience and feel, a world real or surreal, sad or funny, but a world uniquely my own,'' Ms. Bullaty said of the guiding force behind her work.
''I want to express with it what I see, experience and feel, a world real or surreal, sad or funny, but a world uniquely my own,'' Ms. Bullaty said of the guiding force behind her work.
At age 6, she was already performing in theaters where she was billed as ''the fastest little tapper in the world.
Miss London went from playing bit parts in the early 1940's to starring roles and pin-up status among World War II servicemen.
In a theatrical world in which many producers simply presented plays, Ms. Austin sought out new directors, playwrights and composers and inspired them to challenge themselves and to do their most adventurous work.
In her later years, she turned to television, appearing on ''As the World Turns'' and ''The Guiding Light.
''The world I cover is so full of vaudeville,'' she told a reporter in 1992.
Mrs. Falk worked with Jewish refugees and other displaced people before and during World War II.
Mrs. Falk worked with Jewish refugees and other displaced people before and during World War II.
As she recalled it, she was sitting in her kitchen when, over peanut butter sandwiches, she told a like-minded friend, ''The world is in a mess.
'' Her prescription, for a starter, was to promote dialogue and understanding among the world's religions.
As its moving spirit and chairwoman, Mrs. Hollister met and became acquainted with world figures like the Dalai Lama.
But reading up on the world's great faiths, she became convinced that they all, in one way or another, shared basic humane principles.
''
        ''This is the way of the world,'' she continued.
The foundation was dedicated to the memory of those who had been killed in the two world wars.
There are now 20 homes in Britain and 80 centers in 20 countries around the world.
''
        ''It is intended,'' she added, ''to show the misery in the world and the needs which exist more vividly than the written word could do.
Stage management quickly became her primary profession, and she soon found herself in charge of  shows with stars like Tallulah Bankhead, who once said that Ms. Mitchell would have been ''the most perfect person in the world if she could only play bridge.
At the close of World War II, Ms. Hunter established the Professional Training Program of the American Theater Wing, under which 1,700 students studied under the G.I.
The reader meets Maud as a lonely, overweight girl of 7, follows her through a dreamy adolescence and finally sees her as a young newlywed living ''in a sad gray building in a cold white world,'' married to a man numbed by his struggle with white society.
Critics noticed that Ms. Brooks's vision was expanding from considerations of the everyday experiences of Bronzeville to a wider world that included the murder of Emmett Till in Mississippi in 1955 and the racial tensions in Little Rock in 1957.
She was also Women's World Chess Championship challenger in 1949 and 1950.
Wanting experience in the real world, she became a secretary, soon winding up in the offices of the powerful manager Sol Hurok, where she nurtured the careers of other young artists.
''From the point of view of the world in general, Salzburg must be considered a thing of the past.
Before setting up her own practice in 1947 in her home, she worked in Manhattan with other landscape architects, mostly women, on public housing projects, public playgrounds, college campuses and lakeside plantings at the 1939 New York World's Fair.
Her principles formed a critical transition in American garden history between the great estate era and the explosion of suburban and town gardens that followed World War II.

        Christabel Leighton-Porter, who became the sweetheart of British troops in World War II as the model for a comic strip heroine who was forever shedding her clothes, died Dec. 6 in Horsham, England.
''Suddenly I became a sweetheart all over the world,'' she recalled.
In 1993, the Imperial War Museum displayed her 1940's frilly knickers in its exhibition ''Forces Sweethearts,'' the story of wartime romance from World War I to the gulf war.
Over her lifetime, Mrs. Kanzler decorated and lived in 23 residences throughout the world.
In 1955 she married Ernest Kanzler, a Detroit business executive who was head of the War Production Board during World War II.

        Libertad Lamarque Bouza, a singer and actress whose career ranged from the gritty days of early tango recordings in Argentina to the contemporary daily soap operas produced for mass audiences in the Spanish-speaking world, died on Dec. 12 in Mexico City.
'' But it was in Mexico that she took her place as a leading figure in Latin American cinema, and later in the melodramatic world of daily telenovelas, or soap operas.
Mrs. Aresty began her collection after World War II when she frequently traveled overseas with her husband, Julian Aresty, a prosperous retail executive who shared her enthusiasm for history.
The reader meets Maud as a lonely, overweight girl of 7, follows her through a dreamy adolescence and finally sees her as a young newlywed living ''in a sad gray building in a cold white world,'' married to a man numbed by his struggle with white society.
Critics noticed that Ms. Brooks's vision was expanding from considerations of the everyday experiences of Bronzeville to a wider world that included the murder of Emmett Till in Mississippi in 1955 and the racial tensions in Little Rock, Ark., in 1957.
''
        Ms. Wilkens came to the world of children's wear rather by accident.
