Thirty years later, she had become one of the world's most admired interior decorators with a varied list of clients, including Robert Redford, Robert Mapplethorpe and a Florida bank chairman later convicted of fraud named David L. Paul.
In addition to ''All My Children,'' she worked for five years on ''As the World Turns'' and played Hannah Cord in the 1960's prime-time soap opera ''Peyton Place,'' as well as in the 1985 made-for-television movie ''Peyton Place: The Next Generation.
But she won high critical praise for her performance as the unfaithful wife of a returning veteran in ''The Best Years of Our Lives'' (1946), widely regarded as one of the finest movies to come out of the World War II homecoming experience.
''
        In addition to her performances at the Met, Ms. Rankin continued to sing at major houses around the world, including La Scala, where she sang Cassandra, in Berlioz's ''Troyens,'' in 1960, and the Teatro San Carlo, in Naples, where she sang Adalgisa in Bellini's ''Norma,'' in 1963.
She joined the Red Cross and served in the Pacific during World War II.
She was hired by McGraw-Hill World News in New York in 1947.

        Miriam Rothschild, the heiress who discovered how fleas jump, brought Chaucerian wildflowers back to modern England and was acknowledged as one of the world's most distinguished naturalists, died Thursday at her home, Ashton Wold, in Northamptonshire.
Was it odd that a scion of the venerable Rothschild clan should become the world's leading expert on fleas?
During World War II she tenaciously pressed the British authorities to admit more Jews from Nazi Germany and at one point personally housed 49 Jewish children.
Her world darkened when she was 15 and her father committed suicide.
She temporarily lost interest in his passion, the natural world.
Translated into dozens of languages and performed by hundreds of artists, the song has been an emblem of Latin identity, an anthem of lovers separated by World War II and perennial grist for lounge singers everywhere.
In the 1970's, she began to write nonfiction books about feminist issues: ''Man's World, Woman's Place: A Study of Social Mythology'' (Morrow, 1971), ''Between Myth and Morning: Women Awakening'' (Morrow, 1974), ''Powers of the Weak'' (Knopf, 1980) and ''Improper Behavior'' (Morrow, 1987), among others.
Strikers during an auto workers strike against General Motors soon after World War II.
      
By the 1950's she was a mainstay of opera houses around the world and widely admired for her portrayals of leading lyric soprano roles, including Puccini's Mimi (from ''La Bohème'') and Madama Butterfly, Verdi's Violetta (from ''La Traviata''), and Massenet's Manon, Bizet's Carmen and Debussy's Mélisande.
After winning the Geneva International Singing Competition in 1947, she attracted the attention of the world's leading opera companies, and debuts at Covent Garden in London, La Scala in Milan and elsewhere soon followed.
The bright, chirpy Ms. Dee defined a new kind of natural, sun-soaked innocence that America, and much of the rest of the world, quickly embraced as the radiantly healthy, outdoorsy essence of Southern California living.
Ms. Dee followed ''Gidget'' with Delmer Daves's film ''A Summer Place'' (1959), in which she was paired with Troy Donohue as teenage lovers whose innocent confusion about how far their relationship should go ran up against the hypocrisy of an adult world -- a hypocrisy vividly embodied by their adulterous parents, played by Richard Egan and Dorothy McGuire.

        Uli Derickson, the Trans World Airlines flight attendant honored for saving passengers' lives in 1985 by both confronting and mollifying terrorist hijackers, died on Friday at her home in Tucson.
Her work became part of private collections throughout the world.
The group made the United States its base when World War II broke out and spent most of every year on the road.
Phyllis Whitcomb was born in Boston on April 12, 1924, the oldest of three daughters of George Whitcomb, a printing and publishing salesman, and Marjorie Loring Whitcomb, who became Gen. Omar Bradley's administrative assistant during World War II.

        Shirley Fleming, a writer, editor and critic in the world of classical music for almost 50 years, died on Thursday in Augusta, Ga. She was 75.
Shirley Fleming had her most lasting effects on the music world behind the scenes.
Assigning articles and reviews around the country and indeed around the world, Ms. Fleming touched and influenced many lives.
For instance, the villains in her most popular series, ''Witch World,'' comprising about 30 volumes, are the females who think falsely that they have to remain virginal to retain their power.
Most of her childhood was spent in Budapest and Vienna; she was evacuated and sent to the Netherlands with other children for a year during World War I.
Ms. Rostenberg's relationship with Ms. Stern, whom she met in 1930 and with whom she lived for nearly 50 years, runs like a constant thread through her decades in the world of rare books.
In 1978, Dr. Jones and her husband left Johns Hopkins for Eastern Virginia Medical School shortly after the birth of the world's first in vitro baby was announced in England.
Colonel Hallaren commanded the first battalion of the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps to serve in Europe, the largest unit of women to serve overseas in World War II.
In ''Noah's Garden: Restoring the Ecology of Our Own Backyards'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1993), Ms. Stein lamented the effects of traditional suburban landscaping on her six-acre homestead in Pound Ridge, N.Y., three acres of which were scraped in the 1930's to provide topsoil for the 1939 New York World's Fair.
She also championed British composers, like Alan Rawsthorne (whose piano concerto she played in Paris immediately after the liberation in World War II), Cyril Scott, Benjamin Dale and others.
During World War II she became popular in Britain by performing in the National Gallery lunchtime concerts organized by Dame Myra Hess.
But Ms. McNulty's more usual line of work was books like "The Whooping Crane: The Bird That Defies Extinction" (Dutton, 1966) and "How to Dig a Hole to the Other Side of the World" (Harper, 1979), with illustrations by Marc Simont.
She studied Indonesian dance and music at the Center for World Music in Berkeley, Calif., and at the University of Hawaii, supporting herself by working as a nightclub dancer and in a cruise-ship act, the Real Sisters.
In addition, she taught world dance in the theater program at the Eugene Lang College of the New School University and in the theater arts department at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
She installed marble floors and boutiques, small shops within the larger store that changed each season, stocked with exclusive merchandise culled from markets around the world -- a flower shop, stationery, a tiny art gallery, tabletop items from Frank MacIntosh, Lee Bailey's home displays, and a boutique called ''Port of Call'' with objects from Vietnam and Thailand.
''It was like working for the best house in the world.
To take this little town house and make it look like someone lived there, as you were going from room to room -- it was just one woman's vision on the world of fashion, and yet it did incredibly well.
But as time passed, her career unfolded mostly in the ceramics world.
That film, along with her later ones about AIDS, was distributed to schools and youth groups by the World Health Organization.
She taught art in the city's public school system until World War II, which she spent touring the United States for the U.S.O., sketching servicemen.
Mrs. Shapiro, who with her husband endured World War II and the terrors of the Stalinist regime in the Soviet Union, insisted that neither ideology nor aesthetics motivated the collection.
Possibly influenced by her bravura in the showpiece duets (which included another ''Waltz,'' to music by Dunievsky), some critics in the international ballet world considered Ms. Struchkova too much of a powerhouse performer to be a model in the classics.
Just two days after the attack on the World Trade Center, Ms. Laredo celebrated the 25th anniversary of her Alice Tully Hall debut with a recital there.
Ms. May's first husband, Painton Cowan, died in World War II.

        Lillian Lux, the matriarch of a celebrated Yiddish theatrical family who performed for decades as an actress and singer in New York and around the world, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.

        Vera Komarkova, a botanist and mountain climber who was among the first women to scale some of the world's highest peaks, died on May 25 in her home in Leysin, Switzerland.
In the fall of 1978 the American Women's Himalayan Expedition left the United States for Annapurna in Nepal, the 10th highest mountain in the world.
''
        At the time, it was only the fourth expedition to reach the top, and Annapurna is now thought to be one of the most dangerous of the world's 8,000-meter mountains, a class that includes Everest.
''
        In 1984, Dr. Komarkova led another successful Himalayan expedition, to Cho Oyu in Tibet, the world's sixth highest peak.

        Frances Langford, a mellow contralto who ventured into combat zones with Bob Hope's troupe during World War II and the Korean and Vietnam Wars to serenade tens of thousands of servicemen with ballads that reminded them of the girls they left behind, died yesterday at her home in Jensen Beach, Fla. She was 92.
When World War II separated Ms. Fitzgerald from her husband, then back in England, she stayed in Los Angeles with their son, Michael Lindsay-Hogg, later to become an acclaimed film, television and Broadway director.
Hildegarde's admirers ranged from enlisted men and officers during World War II to King Gustaf of Sweden and the Duke of Windsor.
Hildegarde's admirers ranged from enlisted men and officers during World War II to the Duke of Windsor.
Now caring for more than 2,000 patients and their families a year, St. Christopher's has inspired about 240 other hospices in Britain alone and many others around the world.
''I didn't set out to change the world, I set out to do something about pain,'' Dame Cicely said in a 2002 interview with The Daily Telegraph of London.

        Elizabeth C. Beine, a retired director of New York City's Bureau of Child Welfare, who for more than a decade oversaw one of the largest child welfare programs in the world, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
'' She went on to win a Theater World Award in 1946 for her performance in ''Deep Are the Roots,'' which Kazan directed.
After World War II, Ms. Phillips made more than 500 concert appearances for the State Department in Austria and West Germany, then made her Town Hall debut in 1953.

        Mary Ann Malkin, a noted rare-book collector and editor who for nearly two decades helped run AB Bookman's Weekly, the well-thumbed bible of the rare- and secondhand-book business that inflamed and then often sated the acquisitive passions of book collectors around the world, died on Aug. 1 at her home in Manhattan.
) In later years, Mrs. Malkin became an internationally recognized rare-book collector, amassing a library of historical books on dance notation that is considered the finest in the world.
In the decades after World War II, the mail-order secondhand-book trade was a flourishing enterprise, and AB, founded in 1948, was its chief avenue of communication.
Through its Books Wanted and Books for Sale departments, AB united far-flung collectors with dealers around the world, any one of whom just might happen to have a long-sought title in stock.
Two of her daughters, Kiki Smith and Seton Smith, are artists, adding to her prominence in the art world, but she made a career of her own in entertainment.
Judge Motley was at the center of the firestorm that raged through the South in the two decades after World War II, as blacks and their white allies pressed to end the segregation that had gripped the region since Reconstruction.
Her hope as a judge was that she would change the world for the better, she said.
''
        During World War II she went to England and served in the women's branch of the Royal Air Force, an experience she recounted later in ''All the Brave Promises: Memories of Aircraft Woman Second Class 2146391.
After college, Ms. Wilson worked briefly as a flight attendant for Trans World Airlines, a job that she quickly came to loathe, her family said.
Ms. Scott, who almost single-handedly created the field in the United States in the decades after World War II, was one of the country's most sought-after freelance textile conservators -- and not merely because she was for years the country's only freelance textile conservator.
''You go there, and it's like you're in a Technicolor world,'' she said in a 1994 profile of her in The Baltimore Sun.
As a child, she was placed in an orphanage by her father after her mother and sisters died in an epidemic during World War I.
During World War II she organized holiday pageants at the Kibbutz Ramat Hakovesh.
An American who trained as a surgeon in France before World War II, Mother Benedict helped found the abbey in 1947.
But over the last two decades she enjoyed a quietly expanding revival of the concert and club career she had begun in the 1950's, and she became a star in the jazz world.
Mrs. Haupt's other important philanthropies included a multimillion-dollar gift to the Wildlife Conservation Society, some of which went to the restoration of Bronx Zoo Jungle World and some to an endowment fund for the project.
During World War II, she wrote and broadcast for the Office of War Information, coining such phrases as ''If you can shell a pea, you can pack a parachute.
What was more, she realized, most city children considered the natural world irrelevant.
Designed to protect the entrance to the sound, the fort remained active through the end of World War II.
Unaware that she had loosed a genie on the world, she soon forgot about it.
Many of her plays in the 1940's and 50's were written or directed by her husband, who became a Labor member of Parliament after World War II and a prominent campaigner for nuclear disarmament.
She then spent the remaining years of World War II touring Army installations for the U.S.O.
''
        As Colombia opened itself up to the world and produced celebrated artists like Mr. Botero and writers like Gabriel García Márquez, Ms. Arango's work eventually found acceptance and critical acclaim.
''
        On rare occasions, Mrs. Littauer ventured beyond the ancient world, with an interest as modern as the horses of medieval knights.
      
Eclectic scholarly interests had prompted Ms. Cohen, A. J.Pischl and Sheppard Black in 1959 to found Dance Perspectives, a journal dedicated to monographs on various aspects of world dance.
