Janice Farrar Thaddeus was born in New York City on July 20, 1933, into a family immersed in the literary world.
''
        Ms. Osterwald's television work dated back to the 1940's, and included ''Front Row Center,'' ''The Imogene Coca Show,'' ''Naked City'' and ''As the World Turns.

        Anne Poor, an American artist who painted combat scenes in World War II and later concentrated on dreamlike landscapes, died in Nyack, N.Y., on Jan. 12.
Correction:  January 27, 2002, Sunday  An obituary last Sunday about Anne Poor, a painter of dreamlike landscapes and World War II combat scenes, misidentified the town where she lived.

        Charity Adams Earley, the commander of the only all-black Women's Army Corps unit to serve overseas during World War II, died on Jan. 13 in Dayton, Ohio, long her hometown.
In a world of belters, she was a minimalist who eliminated any hint of the extraneous in both her voice and gestures, and she could stir audiences with an understated phrase more than most singers could by shouting and stomping.
A startling side effect of the movie has been the continuing interest of the fashion world in the costumes she is shown wearing, including a contrived skirt held over her ample thighs by a pin.

        Astrid Lindgren, the Swedish writer whose rollicking, anarchic books about Pippi Longstocking rattled some tradition-bound Swedes when they first appeared almost 60 years ago but came to captivate millions of children around the world, died yesterday at her home in Stockholm.
Mrs. Lindgren, who began publishing in the 1940's, became one of the world's most widely translated authors.
''Inge Morath possesses the priceless quality of making the world look as though it had been discovered only this morning and she was present with her lens to record its bright freshness,'' Harrison E. Salisbury wrote in The New York Times Book Review about the couple's book ''In Russia'' (Viking, 1969).
They moved frequently, and were living in Berlin at the outbreak of World War II.
The couple lived in Paris until the outbreak of World War II, after which they joined the artistic émigré community in Hollywood and became United States citizens in 1946.
Her repertoire -- Polish and continental, with a dash of New World -- inspired the likes of Craig Claiborne, the food writer and critic, who favored her bigos, or hunter's stew, and nalesniki, or pancakes.

        Dr. Sheila Sherlock, one of the world's leading authorities on liver disease and a pioneer in the science of hepatology, died on Dec. 30 at her home in London.
Her classic reference work, ''Diseases of the Liver and Biliary System'' (Blackwell Science, 1955), now in its 11th edition and used throughout the world, was the first standard textbook on clinical liver disease.
''
        In 1959, she became the first woman to be promoted to a professorship of medicine at the Royal Free Hospital in London, where she helped set up and direct a world famous clinical, research and training center on liver disease.
One of the first of its kind, it gained an international reputation, and doctors from all over the world traveled there to study the disorders of the liver, the body's largest organ, Dr. Schiff said.
Dr. Jay H. Lefkowitch of the department of pathology at Columbia University added, ''Most of the liver world spent some time in her liver unit at the Royal Free Hospital in London, or wished they had.
''
        In World War II, many doctors were puzzled by jaundice, a liver disorder afflicting many Allied troops.
''She would travel the world to lecture; there was a time in England where every hepatologist had been through her unit,'' said Dr. Dooley, who was Dr. Sherlock's co-author on the last three editions of her book.
He was a decorated World War I veteran who died six months after her birth.
during World War II, and a member of the Advisory Committee to the Marshall Plan.

        Annalee Whitmore Fadiman, a screenwriter, World War II correspondent and the author, with Theodore H. White, of the best seller ''Thunder Out of China,'' died yesterday in Captiva, Fla. She was 85.
During World War II, when the king and queen tried to present an image of both stoicism and good cheer to a battered nation, they rejected the suggestion that their two daughters be sent to Canada to be safe from the danger of the blitz.
After Elizabeth married Prince Philip of Greece in November 1947, Princess Margaret became one of the most eligible single women in the world, and her name was coupled with various fashionable young men.
Her studies of suffrage parades in 1912 led to a series of works from 1916 to 1919 that documented the patriotic displays of World War I.
''
        By the 1930's, she did not follow the art world toward greater abstraction, though her husband did.
Ani Pachen traveled the world to speak for the Tibetan cause.
''
        She worked in television during its experimental days, and later appeared in ''Search for Tomorrow,'' ''The Guiding Light,'' ''Amen'' and ''A World Apart.
But she was impatient with the pretentiousness of the opera world and never embraced it fully.

        Dorothy DeLay, one of the world's most famous teachers of the violin and a mentor to two generations of players ranging from Itzhak Perlman to Midori and Sarah Chang, died on Sunday.
Also among her pupils are members and often founders of some of the world's great chamber groups, among them the Juilliard, the Tokyo, the Cleveland, the Vermeer, the Takacs and the Ying Quartets.
Others like Joseph Swenson and Peter Oundjian became conductors and many became concertmasters and section players in orchestras around the world as well as members of conservatory faculties.

        Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, the enduringly popular grande dame of the British royal family and the country's most beloved symbol of courage and self-sacrifice during World War II, died in her sleep this afternoon at the Royal Lodge at Windsor Palace, a spokesman for her daughter, Queen Elizabeth II, announced.
As queen during World War II, her decision to remain in London through the worst days of the blitz proved a rallying point for Britons desperate for the sort of leadership that only a monarch could provide.
''
        Ben Pimlott, the historian and royal biographer, wrote in 1997 that the queen mother was ''the last survivor of the tiny club of center-stage actors of the Second World War.
The real world intruded during World War I, though, when her brothers went off to fight and Glamis was turned for four years into a convalescent home for soldiers.
The real world intruded during World War I, though, when her brothers went off to fight and Glamis was turned for four years into a convalescent home for soldiers.
The king tried valiantly, if ineffectually, to do his part for diplomacy, preparing a personal letter to Hitler in 1938 that appealed to him ''as one ex-serviceman to another'' and begged him to spare the world from another war.

        Shelley Mydans, a journalist who with her husband, the photographer Carl Mydans, covered the war in Asia in World War II and later wrote a novel based on their 21 months in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp, died on Thursday in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 86.
Her other books were ''Thomas,'' a novel based on the life of Thomas à Becket; ''The Vermilion Bridge,'' a novel about eighth-century Japan; and ''The Violent Peace,'' a report on wars, insurgency and terrorism  since World War II, which she wrote with Mr. Mydans.
As the first chairwoman of Women's World Banking, Ms. Ocloo was one of the pioneers of microlending, the financing of homespun businesses, predominantly run by women, through very small loans, sometimes as little as $50.
Large lending institutions give microlending institutions, like Women's World Banking, big loans of, say, $5 million.
Nancy Barry, president of Women's World Banking, said that 25 million people, three-quarters of them women, had received microloans in more than 40 less-developed countries.
Half the loans are from Women's World Banking.
They and several allies founded Women's World Banking in 1979 with Ms. Ocloo as chairwoman.
''Women must know that the strongest power in the world is economic power,'' she said.
''
        In 1979, again with Mr. Serban and Mr. Papp, she explored the world of Beckett, played Winnie in ''Happy Days.
''It's a lost world,'' she said of her journey home.
She joined the staff of Newsweek as an office girl in 1942 but soon became a researcher; during World War II, she began to receive writing assignments.
She hopes to renew interest in her husband's case in a preoccupied world.
''They don't want to know that the United States was on that side, because then you have to listen to complaints about the United States that come from the rest of the world.
Even so, she's certainly been out there, traveling the world to publicize her husband's case.
At 19, she went to live and work at its world headquarters, the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society in Brooklyn Heights.
When asked in an interview in ''Contemporary Authors'' how she could reconcile this ambition with the tenets of the Jehovah's Witnesses, she suggested that the religion's images of the watery creation of the world and its imminent bloody destruction stimulated her imagination.
In World War II she worked at the Bureau of Standards as a spectrometer technician.

        Ruth Handler, creator of the Barbie doll, one of the world's best-selling toys and one that became an icon of American popular culture, an artistic muse and a lightning rod of feminist politics, died on Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles, where she lived.
She traveled and taught around the world.

        María Félix, the Mexican film star whose extraordinary beauty and force of personality made her a living myth to Mexicans and a symbol of glamour and sophistication to fans throughout the world, died yesterday at her home in Mexico City.
There were no eyes in the world more beautiful than María Félix's.
During World War II, the Fairbanks moved to Washington, where she became the first employee of the China section of the State Department's cultural relations division, which dealt with scholarly and cultural exchange.

        Ruth Fertel, who found a New Orleans restaurant called Chris Steak House in the classified ads and from it built one of the largest steakhouse chains in the world, died Tuesday in New Orleans.
After starting in a three-martini world, Ms. Fertel's business thrived through both the carbo-loading and fat-fearing eras and now benefits from the new appetite for protein, particularly in the form of hulking steaks dripping butter.
Her mother drove an ambulance in France during World War I.
Her books, all published by Doubleday & Company under her maiden name, Patricia Kroh, also included ''Design With Flowers Unlimited'' (1959), ''Contemporary Table Settings'' (1966) and ''A New World of Flower Arrangement'' (1969).
In one typical gesture several years before the World Trade Center terrorist attack, she gave the Police Department $1 million.
The company, which opened in 1915, is now the oldest continually performing Yiddish theater in the world.
In 1962, Mrs. Vreeland joined Vogue, becoming a legend in the fashion world, and not incidentally Miss White's principal competitor.
During their 19-year marriage, while Mr. Robinson became a five-time world middleweight champion, Mrs. Robinson stopped performing to travel with her husband.
Much of her work, done when foreign policy was made by men who thought women had no place in the world of diplomacy, revealed deep knowledge of history inflected by the experience of living through some of the most turbulent events of an epochal century.
''
        Newspapers were mostly a man's world, as shown by the way The New York Post announced that it was acquiring her column in 1967.
) The Times's executive editor, A. M. Rosenthal, who had said, ''Flora is the world's greatest correspondent,'' named her to head the Paris bureau.
''
        Not long ago, recalling the years when she traveled the world as a correspondent and a columnist, she said: ''There are stories you work on where you know this is really big, important history, and they are almost always bad news, disasters or tragedies.
Wölfli,'' was a legend in the world of outsider art.
Mrs. Spoerri came to Wölfli's work through her husband, Theodor, a psychiatrist at Waldau who, at the invitation of the Swiss curator Harald Szeemann, helped reintroduce Wölfli's work to the art world at Documenta 5 in 1972.
She often lectured, however, on historical cooking, which she said offered lessons for the modern world regarding ''conservation of energy, nurture of our environment and elimination of food wastage.
Roland Petit, one of the world's major choreographers, was an unknown dancer chafing under the strictures of the Paris Opera Ballet when Ms. Lidova presented his first ballets with another young dancer-choreographer, Janine Charrat in 1943 and 1944.
When the Nazis invaded Poland at the outbreak of World War II, the family escaped to southern France and later joined her father, a colonel and chief of staff of the Polish Air Force, in England.
At the time of Mrs. Lederer's death, her column was carried in more than 1,200 newspapers around the world, with a readership of 90 million, according to Creators Syndicate, her distributor.
A 1978 World Almanac survey named her the most influential woman in the United States.
The girls' father was an immigrant from Vladivostok, Russia, who made his start in America selling chickens from a wagon and, in the classic New World success story, wound up owning movie theaters in three states.
She wrote a shorter column than usual, asking newspaper editors to preserve the white space at the bottom as a memorial to ''one of the world's best marriages that didn't make it to the finish line.
At the time of Mrs. Lederer's death, her column was carried in more than 1,200 newspapers around the world, with a readership of 90 million, according to Creators Syndicate, her distributor.
A 1978 World Almanac survey named her the most influential woman in the United States.
The girls' father was an immigrant from Vladivostok, Russia, who made his start in America selling chickens from a wagon and, in the classic New World success story, wound up owning movie theaters in three states.
She wrote a shorter column than usual, asking newspaper editors to preserve the white space at the bottom as a memorial to ''one of the world's best marriages that didn't make it to the finish line.
She provided financial as well as emotional support, working as a seamstress during World War II in a factory and sporadically making clothes thereafter for her husband and for friends.
'' The story has served ever since as a metaphor for Mr. Monk's relation to the world, and for his music, in which a pretty melody is set slightly askew by dissonance, or a swinging rhythmic phrase is gapped with an irregular rest.
Much of her work, done when foreign policy was made by men who thought women had no place in the world of diplomacy, revealed deep knowledge of history inflected by the experience of living through some of the most turbulent events of an epochal century.
''
        Newspapers were mostly a man's world, as shown by the way The New York Post announced that it was acquiring her column in 1967.
) The Times's executive editor, A. M. Rosenthal, who had said, ''Flora is the world's greatest correspondent,'' named her to head the Paris bureau.
''
        Not long ago, recalling the years when she traveled the world as a correspondent and a columnist, she said: ''There are stories you work on where you know this is really big, important history, and they are almost always bad news, disasters or tragedies.
Although the museum's new building was much praised when it opened in 1995, many in the art world said the collection was not up to so splendid a setting.
Dancer had a fiancé named Johnny, but he died in World War II.
With Mr. Solomon, her partner in the gallery until their separation in 1988, she gave lavish soirees at their East 57th Street apartment for hundreds of people involved -- or not -- in her world.
In World War II she was one of the first female officers in the Marine Corps, serving in the United States as a recruiter and a quartermaster.
She was the first of dozens of scholars who have made the Bushmen one of the world's most studied populations of traditional hunter-gatherers.
She then gave up the beginning of a career in ballet to travel around the world with her mother, who had been widowed again.
In 1962, she helped found the Army Music and Theater Program, and then for two decades she directed the program, which The Washington Post in 1976 called ''the largest producing organization of music and theater in the world.
''
        In 1945, she was one of the first civilian ''actress technicians'' employed by the United States government to work with troops overseas after World War II.
When she returned to Washington in 1955, she continued working for the Department of the Army, creating and directing a show called ''Rolling Along,'' which toured the world from 1955 to 1961.
In World War I, the Army set up Liberty Theaters, where soldiers could entertain themselves and develop their talent.
It was not the destination that seemed likely when Ms. Wolff, at 22, wrote an 830-page story for a composition class at the University of Michigan and began her journey to the summits of the literary world.
She volunteered as a nurse's aide at a Washington hospital during World War II.
She was also a major player in coordinating the ''Tribute in Light,'' the temporary memorial near the World Trade Center site that so moved her she sobbed when the twin beams were switched on.
Harvard Law School, by comparison, did not accept women until after World War II.
At 19, she married Sol Goldman, who had bought his first building at 17 and whom she urged to leave his family grocery business in Brooklyn and plunge full time into the world of New York real estate.
''
        She created costumes for stars like Katharine Cornell, in a 1947 production of ''Antony and Cleopatra,'' and for Orson Welles and his lavish 1946 stage production of ''Around the World in 80 Days.
During World War II she opened a dress shop in London, where she came to Motley's attention.
Starting out as the critic for The New York World in the 1930's, Ms. Genauer made it her mission to introduce modern artists like Marc Chagall and Diego Rivera to a newspaper audience.
She attended Hunter College and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, and began writing for The New York World in 1929.
The World paid her by the word, allowing her to make as much as $92 per week, she recalled in 1992.
''
        After The World went out of business and was merged with The New York Telegram, she continued to write for the paper until 1949.
In 1966, The Herald Tribune merged with two other newspapers to become The New York World Journal Tribune, and she became its art critic until its demise in 1967.
''I could do it for 60 years because I'd rather look at art than anything else,'' Ms. Genauer said of art criticism in 1992, ''because I love the art world and because every day was different than every other.
Starting out as the critic for The New York World in the 1930's, Ms. Genauer made it her mission to introduce modern artists like Marc Chagall and Diego Rivera to a newspaper audience.
She attended Hunter College and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, and began writing for The New York World in 1929.
The World paid her by the word, allowing her to make as much as $92 per week, she recalled in 1992.
''
        After The World went out of business and was merged with The New York Telegram, she continued to write for the paper until 1949.
In 1966, The Herald Tribune merged with two other newspapers to become The New York World Journal Tribune, and she became its art critic until its demise in 1967.
''I could do it for 60 years because I'd rather look at art than anything else,'' Ms. Genauer said of art criticism in 1992, ''because I love the art world and because every day was different than every other.

        Daphne Bayne Hellman, the jazz harpist who performed around the world and for three decades at the Village Gate but who had a special affection for playing on subway platforms, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Manhattan.
''She opened up a new world for me, and I opened up a world for her.
''She opened up a new world for me, and I opened up a world for her.
In Houston, Mrs. McCollum's charitable activities included fund-raising for Orbis International, an organization that promotes eye health around the world.
When a small independent label, Arf Arf, reissued it on CD that year, record collectors around the world took note.
She claimed, for example, to be the first person ever on television and radio; that Ignace Paderewski told her mother she would be the finest pianist in the world; that she was kicked out of a German music conservatory for being overqualified.
At 65, she sang of a world where anything was possible and everything was shot through with an innocent joy, excitement and imagination.
In that ensemble play, she acted opposite Mr. McBurney as a woman searching the world for a father she never knew.
These included ''Oh What a Lovely War,'' a vaudeville-style re-creation of key events in the First World War; ''The Quare Fellow'' and ''The Hostage,'' two plays by her protégé, the Irish dramatist Brendan Behan; and ''A Taste of Honey,'' a bleak portrait of life in Northern England by the 18-year-old Shelagh Delaney.
The improvised ''Oh What A Lovely War,'' which brought Theater Workshop its greatest success, was a satire of World War I done in 1963 as a music hall revue with the actors in black-and-white commedia dell'arte costumes.
''
        She also gave William Saroyan's ''Sam, the Highest Jumper of Them All'' its world premiere, enjoyed success with Wolf Mankowitz's ''Make Me an Offer'' and the ex-convict Frank Norman's ''Fings Ain't What They Used to Be,'' and discovered talent that ranged from John Bury, later the National Theater's head of design, to Richard Harris, who played Macbeth for her.
As experimental theater groups sprung up all over London and all around the world, she once said, as The Guardian reported in its obituary: ''I didn't need to have children.
All over the world I have children.
''We know there are many dance artists in the world who were as encouraged as we were by her quiet enthusiasm.
''
        Similarly, the Reinharts were the first to familiarize Americans with the nascent French contemporary dance boom after they traveled to France to select five troupes for the festival in 1983, and Ms. Reinhart was awarded the medal of Chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters this month for her contributions to furthering dance in France and throughout the world.
''
        Shortly afterward, Ms. Hunter took a supporting role in the Ginger Rogers film ''Tender Comrade,'' about young women living communally during World War II, a film that struck some as pro-Soviet.
She said she traced her problems with the blacklist to a world peace symposium that she helped sponsor in 1949.
Owning an auto was out of the question for Mrs. Coblentz, Mr. Williams said, because it would have brought the whole world within her reach.
In 1918, she came down with influenza during the epidemic that swept the United States during World War I.
''
        In Antwerp, a city still recovering from World War I, the swimmers and divers competed in a moat-like canal.
She toured the world, appeared in movies and wrote a sports column for The New York Evening Post and articles for national magazines.
She never stopped swimming or lecturing or writing about it, and at 85 she broke six world records for her age group in the world masters championships.
She never stopped swimming or lecturing or writing about it, and at 85 she broke six world records for her age group in the world masters championships.
''As Keats imagined himself sitting beside Shakespeare in a tavern in the next world,'' she wrote in her memoir, ''so they saw themselves separated from the rest of us, 'institutionalized,' surrounded by poets.
Rightly assuming that state security agencies would have cut phone lines from the yard in the hope of keeping the strike secret from the nation and the world, she called friends in Warsaw, who alerted Western reporters, making sure the news would spread through Poland over Radio Free Europe.
''The world is getting smaller,'' she said about the merger with the Center for Constitutional Rights.

        Phyllis Calvert, a ladylike actress who packed British movie theaters in the darkest days of World War II with her performances in wildly melodramatic, escapist costume dramas, died on Tuesday in London.
But she may be best known in the art world for helping Marcia Tucker, a former curator at the Whitney Museum of American Art, establish the New Museum of Contemporary Art, now in SoHo.
Dr. Kilbourn's discovery also made it increasingly important to protect the major concentration of gorillas, believed to be the largest left in the world, living in the nearby Odzala National Park, about 100 kilometers away over the border in Congo, by controlling access to them by humans and animals that might be carrying the virus.
In World War II, while her husband served in the Navy, she and he signed petitions protesting the relocation of Japanese-Americans to internment camps.
Her interest lay in events like the closing of factories in New England or the social impact of World War II.
Bright, asked in an interview this year why she had chosen something as homely as curtain making to make her artistic mark in the world, said, ''I decide that if I was going to do something out of the ordinary, that I'd better start with something ordinary.
When she was honored by the American Farmland Trust, Ms. Straus said World War II had taught her a lifelong lesson about standing for one's beliefs: ''That we, as individuals, are responsible for what is happening in our communities, and that we must become activists.
She joined him in the CBS overseas service and broadcast dozens of times from European cities on the CBS World News Roundup.
Marvin Breckinridge's exploits were documented in a touring exhibit the Library of Congress put together a few years ago, ''Women Come to the Front: Journalists, Photographers and Broadcasters During World War II.
Ms. Enseki's mother, Emi, and her mother's parents were in an internment camp during World War II.
In World War II she became a volunteer ambulance driver and broadcast in French and German on the BBC.
When Wiley Post made a solo flight around the world in 1933, she arranged logistics and interpreted in Siberia.
After World War II, Mrs. Mahoney and Mrs. Lasker lobbied to enlarge the agency, then a single institute.
You are seeing the world in a different way.
