She and her husband, Richard, also established the Goldman Environmental Prize in 1990 to reward grass-roots environmentalists around the world.
The world must hear her!
The United States National champion in singles in 1941 and again in 1945, Danzig ranked among the world's top 10 women on six occasions between 1933 and '39.
Besides performing charitable duties on a revolving list of social committees, Danzig worked for NBC television as a sports editor from 1956 to '57, and in 1965 became an advertising consultant for World Tennis magazine.
After a World War II stint for the U.S.O.
In her post Mrs. Weil supervised the security and maintenance of United Nations centers throughout the world, as well as procurement for all field operations, the management of United Nations commercial activities, and global purchasing and transportation.
Mrs. Weil worked in the General Counsel's office of the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare, and with what is now the Washington law firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson before joining the United Nations in 1952, rising to the post of director of the world body's General Legal Division in 1980.
Baroness de Rothschild, whose husband, Baron Guy de Rothschild, is dean of the French branch of the banking family, was well known in the world of fashion  and was particularly renowned for the dinners, balls and benefits she organized.
She was  a past chairwoman of the American section of the World Jewish Congress and head  of its global commission on anti-Semitism for North America.
Mrs. Lewis was active in a number of other organizations, including the American Foundation for Jewish Culture, the advisory board of the National Jewish Family Center of the American Jewish, the United States and New York Holocaust Commissions, the Synagogue Council of America and the World Synagogue  Council.
" Her fervent interest was in the world of prehistory.
During and immediately  after World War II, she held several government posts and was the founder of the United Kingdom Commission for Unesco.
"
        Ms. Hawkes's books included "A Woman as Great as the World," a collection of  fables and a science fiction novelette; "Journey Down a Rainbow," a personalized account of a visit to the United States written with Mr. Priestley; "Providence  Island: An Archeological Tale"; "King of the Two Lands: The Pharaoh, Akhenaten," and "Dawn of the Gods," a study of Greece in the Bronze Age.

        Virginia Henderson, who took a temporary job caring for World War I wounded and ended up helping to elevate nursing into a respected independent profession  as a renowned researcher, teacher and scholar, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Branford, Conn.
Song after song found her confronting suffering, loneliness, abandonment or loss with an equanimity that her millions of listeners in the Spanish-speaking world found inspiring and deeply moving.
Several of those numbers, "Cucurrucucu Paloma" and "Tres Dias" in particular, became hits everywhere -- the United States included -- and made Ms. Beltran a star throughout the Spanish-speaking world.
In 1956, she was selected as one of the 10 best-dressed women in the world and four years later was named to the Fashion Hall of Fame.
The sets, which included a handwritten tag saying "God Loves You, and So Do I," were distributed to various churches and charities in Watertown and through  Church World Service, the Protestant relief agency, to poor children across the  nation and abroad.
An accomplished horsewoman herself, Mrs. Keane never apologized for her own youthful enchantment with a world circumscribed by riding, dancing and clothes.
The critic Richard Lingeman wrote that Miss Travers "has succeeded in creating a timeless world inhabited by real people and complete unto itself -- an immortal world that is summoned into being, unchanged whenever one opens a book.
The critic Richard Lingeman wrote that Miss Travers "has succeeded in creating a timeless world inhabited by real people and complete unto itself -- an immortal world that is summoned into being, unchanged whenever one opens a book.
Her father was a sugar planter, and Miss Travers recalled growing up near  the Great Barrier Reef in a tropical world of sugar cane, shells and mangoes.
"
        After the outbreak of World War II, Miss Travers spent the years from 1940 to 1945 in the United States.
Of particular concern was the chapter entitled "Bad Tuesday," in which Mary Poppins and her charges travel to exotic corners of the world, meeting, among other characters, a black  woman on a South Sea island who holds a "pickaninny" on her lap, speaks in an American Southern dialect and offers everyone watermelon.
With much of the earth ravaged by World War II, the Scotch-Irish actress with titian hair, blue-green eyes and alabaster complexion filled a need for a dignified and intrepid wife-mother figure.
In 1992, she assumed major responsibilities for the company's television advertising around the world as vice president for creative services in global advertising.
During World War II she was a Washington-based official of the Justice Department.
Her later film credits included "Johnny Tremain," "Follow Me, Boys," "The Little Shepherd of Kingdom Come," "A Thunder of Drums," "Rock, Pretty Baby," "Joe Dakota," "The Restless Years," "Home From the Hills" and "Go Naked in the World.
As the entry of the United States into World War II loomed, she started working with the Thai language.
Her final novel, also historical, was "The Calling of the Mercenaries" (1977), which focused on occupied Germany after World War II.
In World War II she served in the Women's Army Corps in the United States and in occupied Germany.
She studied lieder singing in the 1930's and worked for the Office of Strategic Services, translating captured Nazi documents, in Washington during World War II.
"
        She was often said to have inspired the 1935 Rodgers and Hart hit song "The Most Beautiful Girl in the World," with what The Guardian on Saturday called "her blue eyes, blond hair, and fragile singing and dancing style.
Abandoning soap operas, she began turning out inspirational books -- among them "Discoveries," "Beloved World" and "The Eugenia Price Treasury of Faith" -- that won her a wide following long before she turned to fiction.
As she toured the world, Miss Toumanova was accompanied by her mother, Eugenia, one of the most famous of the "ballet mothers" of the 1930's.
She gave $5 million in 1991 to establish the Hedwig van Ameringen Guest Artist Endowment Fund, which helped engage scores of the world's leading soloists to play with the Philharmonic.
"
        During the 1940's, she recorded with the Sons of the Pioneers and the Light Crust Doughboys, and had a hit with "Goodnight, Soldier" during World War II.

        Honor R. Holland, who served as a British Army officer with the future Queen  in World War II and as a high Government official in Imperial Ethiopia, died last Monday in Saratoga Hospital in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. She was 79 and lived  in Saratoga Springs.
"
        Although she sang with orchestras and opera companies all over the world, and made recordings with many conductors and ensembles, she was unusual in that she  considered a single company, the Berlin Deutsche Oper, her artistic home.
Her generosity came from a belief that the world could be a better and more beautiful place.
She also created and directed a program that has attracted hundreds of health professionals to the hospital from around the world to learn about the latest techniques in AIDS care.
She was a delegate to three World Zionist Congresses and a leader in many national, regional and local Jewish groups.
The film depicts the world of 2006, a time, Lang envisioned, when a ruling class lives in decadent luxury in the lofty heights of skyscrapers linked by aerial railways, while beneath the streets slavelike workers toil in unbearable conditions to sustain their masters.
" Until the 1970's, when physical problems began to impinge on her perfect technique, this hefty, unglamorous woman seemed to loom as an immutable creative force in a musical world where everything else was crumbling.
During World War II she worked in Latin America for the United States Office of  Education, eventually joining that agency and remaining on its staff from 1946 to 1961.
During and after World War II, she worked for United China Relief and the Friends of France and played a pivotal role on the Committee for Economic Development, a national organization.
Miss Mitford was a union organizer, a bartender at a Miami restaurant, a clerk in a Washington dress shop and a typist and later an investigator at the Office of Price Administration in World War II.
She worked for the World Jewish Congress until a few years ago, searching for people willing to testify at trials in West Germany and the United States.
Among the cases for which Miss Pupko found witnesses was that of Andrija Artukovic, Minister of the Interior for the Nazi puppet state of Croatia in World War II.
He was sentenced to death for war crimes there, but died in prison in 1988 before the execution could be carried out..
        "In the days before computers, she was better than computers," said Elan Steinberg, executive director of the World Jewish Congress.

        Anne W. Simon, an environmentalist whose books explored the perils to the world's seas and shorelines, particularly on her beloved Martha's Vineyard, died on Monday at her Manhattan home.
Her early films were followed by such successes as "Imitation of Life" (1934); "The Gilded Lily" (1935); "Private Worlds" (1935), a drama of a mental institution; "Bluebeard's Eighth Wife" (1938), another Lubitsch comedy; "Midnight" (1939); "The Palm Beach Story" (1942), a Preston Sturges caper, and "Since You Went Away" (1944), a drama of the American home front during World War II.
" Later it was said that she told friends, "I've just finished the worst picture in the world.
Mrs. Gerard and Mr. M'Bow also found themselves at odds over the developing world's campaign to create what it termed a New World Information and Communications Order to be administered by Unesco.
Mrs. Gerard and Mr. M'Bow also found themselves at odds over the developing world's campaign to create what it termed a New World Information and Communications Order to be administered by Unesco.
This new order was intended to curb the industrialized world's perceived monopoly on the flow of information by drawing up a new code of conduct for journalists and the work they do.

        Barbara Srenco Brier, a former world bridge champion, died yesterday in Allegheny University Hospitals Center City in Philadelphia.
In 1970 Mrs. Brier won the World Mixed Pairs Championship in Stockholm.
She trained in dance at the Martha Graham school, at Clark Center and at the Luigi Dance Center and performed from 1971 to 1974 with the New World Dancers.

        Virginia Corwin Brautigam, a scholar who helped pioneer the field of comparative religion and who traveled the world in search of knowledge about Eastern faiths, died on Monday at a retirement community in Newtown, Pa. She was 95.
Originally a specialist in early Christianity, Dr. Corwin's intellectual curiosity about Buddhism, Confucianism, Hinduism, Islam and Shinto was stimulated by a course in world religions she taught as a young assistant professor.
Dr. Corwin's broadening interests, which went from the study of early Christianity to include more world religions, was emblematic of her generation of theologians.
Dr. Telkes also developed a solar salt-water still for the Navy in World War II, which saved the lives of torpedoed sailors and downed airmen.
By 1989, Mrs. de Lanux's whereabouts were unknown in the design world.
World War I had just ended, and they immediately moved to Paris.
She wrote about that world for Town & Country magazine in the 1920's.
Her customers at her elegant Park Avenue and Palm Beach salons were some of the world's richest and most socially prominent women, who often filled in checks that ended in three and four zeros.
''She used to get mail by the pound from people all over the world,'' said Dr. Robert Kelley, associate chairman of the department of mathematics and computer science at the University of Miami, who knew Mrs. Morton for more than 20 years.
The couple lived in the Bahamas during World War II, and their studies of the plant life there resulted in their first book, ''50 Tropical Fruits of Nassau'' (1949).
General Johnson, a brigadier general during World War II, was chairman of Johnson & Johnson, the international health care company, from 1932 to 1963.
Although she was always appropriately dressed, Mrs. Noyce had no interest in fashion and even less in travel, preferring to stay in Maine rather than visit the world's resorts.
Other minor film parts followed, until she was chosen by Clair, regarded by the film world as an original stylist, for her roles in ''Le Million'' and ''Quatorze Juillet.
Many in this nation brimmed with the hope that she could help  update the Chrysanthemum throne, ushering into the modern age a dynasty that is the world's oldest and is shrouded in pageantry and tradition.
Her most recent project was ''Strong on Music,'' a series that explored the musical world of 19th-century New York through the eyes of the lawyer and diarist George Templeton Strong.
's during World War II, was in her heyday at a time when the major studios believed that certain actresses needed something of a signature.
''
        During World War II, Miss Lamour was also known as ''the bond bombshell'' because of the volunteer work she did selling United States War Bonds.
's during World War II, was in her heyday when the major studios believed that certain actresses needed something of a signature.
''
        During World War II, Miss Lamour was also known as ''the bond bombshell'' because of her volunteer work selling United States War Bonds.

        Sabina Zlatin, who rescued dozens of Jewish children from the Nazis during World War II, died on Saturday in a Paris hospital.
She danced with the Berlin State Opera Ballet during World War II until Nazi doctors measuring her body decided that she must be Jewish (she was not) and sent her to a labor camp.
Today Mexico City's central market is among the largest outlets in the world for contraband.
''
        But Miss Welitsch's extensive repertory and her determination to make up for the years on the international stage that she had lost during World War II shortened her operatic career.

        Frances Lear, a mercurial figure in the media world who spent some $25 million she received in a divorce settlement to start a magazine named after herself, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Before and during World War II, she took part in variety shows and pantomimes.
Later she acted in Mr. Albee's ''Counting the Ways'' at the National, in Congreve's ''Way of the World'' for the Royal Shakespeare Company and in Mr. Nichols's ''Born in the Gardens.

        Magda Trocme, a French parson's wife who opened her door to a single shivering refugee in 1940 and helped inspire a movement that saved thousands of Jews and others from the Nazis in World War II, died on Oct. 10 a hospital in Paris.
Although she was a heroine to Yad Vashem, Israel's Holocaust Martyrs and Heroes Memorial Authority, to her dying day Mrs. Trocme could not comprehend a world that regarded it as in any way remarkable that she, her husband, and thousands of other residents of the village of Le Chambon-sur-Lignon in the plateau region of southern France had risked their lives to feed, clothe, hide and protect those who would have died without their help.
After his ordination, Mr. Trocme, who was something of a free-thinker himself (he had renounced violence and become a conscientious objector in World War I) was regarded as so much of a rebel in the French Protestant church that he was sent in 1934 to Chambon in southern France, a region with a long history of tolerance since the days it had become a refuge for Huguenots fleeing the purges of Catholic France.
Correction:  November 9, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary on Oct. 19 about Magda Trocme, a Frenchwoman who helped shield Jewish refugees from the Nazis in World War II, misspelled the name of her daughter and misstated the daughter's hometown.
''
        That book, ''The Large International Firm in Developing Countries: The International Petroleum Industry,'' was published in 1968, and by 1976 she was considered one of the top oil economists in the world.
In the 1976 interview, she said: ''Historically, the international oil companies often have wielded their vast power selfishly, although their accomplishments have often been beneficial to the world.
According to family legend, one day during World War I, Anna Leffel asked Izzy Waldbaum if he could get her some sugar, which was in short supply.
Dr. Boynton served as chief medical director of the American Red Cross blood donor program for metropolitan New York during both World War II and the Korean War.

        Fritz and Ingeborg Kahlenberg, exiled Germans who met during World War II as members of Hidden Camera, a Dutch Resistance group that documented the Nazi occupation of the Netherlands, died this month at New York University Hospital within two weeks of each other.
film studio, settled in Amsterdam after Hitler came to power and was a film distributor when World War II began.
And finally, concerned about the wear and tear of constant travel on her own increasingly valuable figures, she established a permanent home for more than 100 of her best pieces at Carousel World, a museum and working carousel she helped establish at Peddler's Village in Lahaska, Pa., outside New Hope.
''
        As an intellectual living through the Depression, the rise and fall of Fascism and Communism, World War II, the Holocaust, Prohibition and the sexual revolution, Diana Trilling clung to an old-fashioned ethos.
'An Anxious World' Filled With Fears
        A native New Yorker, she was born on July 21, 1905, one of three children of Helene Forbert Rubin and Joseph Rubin, a manufacturer of straw braid.
''I regard the whole of my life as having been lived in an anxious world,'' she said.
''With marriage I had entered Lionel's world,'' she said.
'' In the pages of The Partisan Review, Commentary, The Nation and Dissent, they debated whether America should enter World War II.
Mrs. Baron was a member of the United States Women's Team that took third place in the 1968 world championships in Deauville, France, and she competed in the World Women's Pairs Championship in 1978 and 1982.
Mrs. Baron was a member of the United States Women's Team that took third place in the 1968 world championships in Deauville, France, and she competed in the World Women's Pairs Championship in 1978 and 1982.
'' Summing up her career, she said, with pride, ''Yiddish is my world.
Combining advocacy with her love of travel, Ms. Perez attended the nongovernmental forum on women held in Beijing in conjunction with the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women last year.
The book revealed the world of a 50-ish !Kung San woman who says, for example, speaking of sex in old age, ''Then I'll wear the beads and powder and I'll be beautiful again, so beautiful that the men will say, 'Nisa, aren't you a lovely one.
So much so, in fact, that within a decade after her formal retirement in 1964 she had turned out a torrent of books -- among them ''The Sex Game,'' ''The Female World,'' ''The Future of Marriage'' and ''The Future of Motherhood'' -- that established her as a premier scholar of the women's movement.
For all the fans she acquired as a singer, Miss Kitchell became even more famous as a talk show host, and she put her celebrity to civic use, especially during World War II.
As the Countess of Jersey, she did charity work in Britain during World War II.
She is survived by her husband of 48 years, Florian Martini, a World War II flying ace.
      
As vice president, she oversaw the vaccine research staff at Emeryville and coordinated efforts with vaccine research centers around the world.
Miss Le Sueur, a native of Murray, Iowa, grew up among the radical farmer and labor groups that informed her youth, like the Populists, the Farmers Alliance and the Wobblies, the Industrial Workers of the World.
Just beyond their Middle Western kitchen the world was filled with  eloquent radicals: Big Bill Haywood, Eugene V. Debs, Lincoln Steffens and Emma Goldman.
Mrs. Dulles, who was sometimes called ''the Mother of Berlin'' for her enthusiastic efforts to revitalize the economy and culture of that battered capital as it recovered from World War II, managed to carve for herself a formidable reputation even though her two brothers, John Foster Dulles and Allen Welsh Dulles, held much higher rank in the American Government.
''This place is a real man's world if ever there was one,'' she said in 1958.
She graduated from Bryn Mawr College with a major in social sciences, worked in refugee rehabilitation and reconstruction projects in France after World War I and returned to Bryn Mawr to earn a master's degree in labor and industrial economics.
Ms. Agger was at the center of a rebellion that ruffled the world of big-ticket law offices in 1960 when she led an exodus of partners from the firm Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison.
It was then that Mrs. Macdonald decided to remind the world of their plight.
during World War II, and oversaw programs to help women and children with problems related to the war.
Founded just after World War II, it is a gift shop that initially assisted returning veterans.
Having been privately tutored in New York and abroad, she joined the Red Cross as a nurse's aide during World War I.
Miss Donovan was a history teacher in the Boston public school system from 1938 to 1943, and then served in the Women's Army Corps during World War II, where she quickly rose from private to captain.
The book recounts Dr. Denes's ordeal as one of the so-called hidden children, estimated to number from 10,000 to 100,000, who spent World War II in stables and caves and secret rooms like Anne Frank's annex in Amsterdam.
''She was one of the world's great originals,'' said Dr. Alan Walker, an anatomist at Pennsylvania State University who has long excavated fossils with the Leakey family.
''
        Beginning in the 1930's, Mary Leakey and her late husband, Louis, awakened the world to Africa's primary place in human origins with their spectacular discoveries and increasingly pushed back the time of those origins much earlier than had been thought.
After World War I, the family spent months each year in Switzerland, France or Italy, where the father painted and took Mary to archeological ruins and the caves painted by Cro-Magnon hunters.
''
        Then she moved to Washington,  where she started Overcoats for Britain, a program shipping coats to England during World War II.
''
        Then she moved to Washington, where she started Overcoats for Britain, shipping coats to Britain during World War II.
Mrs. Bernstien, who emigrated to the city from Russia when she was 3 and who  grew up on the Lower East Side and in Brooklyn, was closely associated with a group of artists and writers who rose to prominence before World War II, including those in the Algonquin Round Table.
She became a hit in Paris theaters after World War I.
During World War II she was a member of the Comedie Francaise and also appeared in films.
Without telling their mother, the two young women hopscotched their way across the world, dancing every night.

        Lois Shapiro, a publishing executive who helped handle best sellers like "The World According to Garp" by John Irving, "Faces at the Bottom of the Well" by Derrick Bell and "Passages" by Gail Sheehy, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital.
In 1919, the Miller family founded the Cummins Engine Company of Columbus, which grew into the world's largest independent maker of diesel engines, with annual revenue of more than $4 billion and a payroll of more than 23,000.
She had a lifelong interest in Scouting and was a past director of the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. and a trustee of the World Foundation for Girl Guides and Girl Scouts.
She began her career in World War II as a researcher at what is now Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh.
She found her calling during the London Blitz in World War II, when she did the legal work that took hundreds of  children away from the air raids to safety in the United States on behalf of Eleanor Roosevelt's Committee for the Care of European Children.
She wrote about the history of jazz dancing and  taught around the world, at schools and festivals that included the International Ballet Competition in Jackson, Miss., in 1986 and 1990.
In 1953, she  joined the Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training, which assists Jewish people around the world.
" He was killed in Burma during World  War II, when Caroline was 12.
When she died on Wednesday at a hospice  in London at the age of 91, she was regarded as last link of living memory with  the maritime disaster that rocked the world on April 15, 1912.
"It seemed as if once everybody had gone, drowned, finished, the whole world  was standing still.
During World War II, she taught at the Jan Kazimierz University in Lvov, and participated in underground  teaching during the Nazi occupation.

        Elizabeth McCall Cain, a figure in Manhattan's social world who was active in arranging benefits for educational and cultural institutions, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital.
During World War II she worked for the Office of Strategic Services in Washington, interviewing French and Italian diplomats.
