Made famous by ''Weekend,'' Mr. Godard's 1966 classic about a group of people taking to the roads to escape a riot-torn Paris, Miss Berto went on to play a major role in Alain Tanner's ''Middle of the World'' (1974), to play Celine in Jacques Rivette's ''Celine and Julie Go Boating'' (1974) and to co-star with Bulle Ogier in Mr. Rivette's ''Duelle'' in 1976.
In World War II she was with the Office of War Information, specializing on Southeast Asia.
A Leader in Fashion World
        She was part of a group of milliners who were better known at the time than dress designers.
In the 1940's clothing fabric was in restricted supply because of World War II, and hats continued in demand because they were showy.
Mrs. Edward's daughter, India Moffett Williams, died in 1979, and her son, John Holbrook Moffett, died in World War II.
'' In World War II she headed a U.S.O.
In 1957 Mrs. Ruebhausen was the only woman to be a member of the World Trade Advisory Committee, which advised the Department of Commerce on American trade policy.

       Ava Gardner, a North Carolina sharecropper's daughter who became one of the most bewitching movie actresses in the world, died of pneumonia yesterday at her home in the Kensington section of London.
Ava Gardner, a North Carolina sharecropper's daughter who became one of the most bewitching movie actresses in the world, died of pneumonia yesterday at her home in the Kensington section of London.
When she arrived in Australia to make ''On the Beach,'' she enraged many people by remarking, ''I'm here to make a film about the end of the world, and this sure is the place for it.

       Louella Luhrman, an Army nurse in World War I who became the nation's oldest veteran, died Friday.
Louella Luhrman, an Army nurse in World War I who became the nation's oldest veteran, died Friday.
Mrs. Gruver twice came close to winning a world title.
In 1966 in Amsterdam, playing with Sue Sachs of Baltimore, she finished second in the World Women's Pair Championship.
They were part of an American squad that finished second in the World Women's Team Championship in Port Chester, N.Y., in 1981.
Mrs. Hahn had been interior-design editor of Home Funishings Daily, American Home Magazine, Women's World and Parents Magazine.
After World War II she began to plan weddings and parties for friends in the area and in 1950 started a series of dances for adolescent boys and girls that has become a fixture in the social life of Long Island.
A native of Haverford, Pa., and a graduate of Bryn Mawr College, Mrs. Plass joined the Naval Reserve in World War I.
She met and married Mr. Plass, a naval officer and later a consulting engineer whose work took them to many parts of the world.
''There is no room in the world for dancers running around and around the stage and then kicking their right ear,'' she said in a 1983 interview.
In World War II, while her husband taught celestial navigation to pilots in Mississippi, she managed his Fifth Avenue leather goods store, Lederer de Paris.
Encouraged by her parents to be curious and undogmatic about the world around her, Mrs. Sulzberger cultivated a well-stocked mind.
She was also received by Prime Minister Zhou Enlai, who expressed his regard for Mrs. Sulzberger by inviting her to dinner and by talking with her at length about China and world issues.
World War I ended just as Mr. Sulzberger was to be sent abroad.
During World War II, she became director of special events for The Times, working with the promotion department.
Among other things, Mrs. Sulzberger suggested supplements and booklets for students on the war and on world affairs.
Enfeebled by a stroke in his last years, Mr. Sulzberger relied almost completely on his wife as his contact with the world.
Telling Her Own Story
        Autobiographies by the soft-spoken, cosmopolitan writer are ''Bronx Primitive: Portraits in a Childhood'' (1982) and ''A Wider World: Portraits in an Adolescence'' (1986).
Exploring Her Adolescence
        In ''A Wider World,'' Miss Simon recounted her rebellious adolescence, which helped get her into the challenging James Monroe High School, where she excelled; becoming a live-in baby sitter for an eccentric, radical family, and tentative, humorous and grim aspects of youthful sexuality.
In World War II, her factory in Pleasantville, N.Y., turned to military work.
She later became director of the World Federation of Mental Health.
She supervised compilation of the multivolume tables of atomic energy levels, as shown by optical spectra, that became a standard reference in laboratories around the world.
At Princeton University she worked under Henry Norris Russell, whose classification of stars by brightness and spectral type became standard throughout the world.
She served with the Red Cross in the Pacific in World War II, and was a copy editor for Dance magazine before joining Life.
''She showed the world that you didn't have to be a man to be a great cook, and she was so generous in advancing women in the restaurant business.
She later wrote advertising copy and was a reporter for The Atlantic City Daily World, which has ceased publication.
''
        Dr. Szladits considered the Berg not a musty repository of the past but a working collection that was used by biographers from all over the world.
She invariably played a disillusioned woman of the world who falls hopelessly and giddily in love.
Ironically, in seeking to avoid publicity, she became one of the most publicized women in the world.
Meanwhile, the European market, which provided the major income from her pictures, was largely cut off by World War II, and M-G-M refused to meet her salary demands.
There, she met and married Aaron G. Hill, a soldier who shortly after the end of World War I was stationed at Fort Wood, an Army post at the foot of the Statue of Liberty on what was then called Bedloes Island in New York Harbor.
Tourists From Around the World
        Mrs. Hill's daughter, Charlotte Libauer, recalled yesterday that her parents commuted seven days a week by subway and boat to operate their souvenir and food stands.
Mrs. Hill became conversant in several languages as she dealt with tourists from around the world.
She moved to the United States in 1945 after working in British hospitals throughout World War II.
Miss Ferriday, who began her career as an actress in the 1920's and later turned to philanthropy, was a staunch supporter of the French Resistance during World War II.
The women were known as ''lapins,'' or rabbits, and had been inmates at the Ravensbruck concentration camp near Berlin in World War II.
Her work apparently caught the attention of Samuel Spewack, then a young reporter for The World.

       Pauline Frederick, a longtime radio and television news analyst of world affairs, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at Lake Forest (Ill.) Hospital while visiting relatives.
She was 84 years old and lived in Sarasota, Fla.
        Pauline Frederick, a longtime radio and television news analyst of world affairs, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at Lake Forest (Ill.) Hospital while visiting relatives.
At all three networks, Miss Frederick had her own news programs, and she reported on political conventions, the United Nations and world affairs.
Writing and Radio Interviews
        Miss Frederick wrote for the United States Daily, a predecessor of U.S. News and World Report, covering the State, War and Navy Departments.
Mrs. Roberts, a transplanted Englishwoman married to a member of one of the city's leading families, became the cultural leader of Birmingham after World War II.
''The book encapsulates the best qualities of her work,'' said The Times of London, which went on to list ''a crystal-clear style of storytelling, a respect for the innocence and intelligence of the young reader, a serious treatment of supernatural phenomena, a regard for all natural life and a belief that a man-centered conception of the world is false and crippling.
She attended Somerville College at Oxford for a year and left to serve as a nurse in France in World War I.
The couple were divorced in 1935, and Mrs. Boston studied painting on the Continent until she returned home in early 1939, on the eve of World War II.
''
        Effect of World War II
        Miss Williams retired from acting after playing the careless governess Miss Prism in a 1939 Broadway revival of Oscar Wilde's ''Importance of Being Earnest.
''
        Miss Williams told a columnist for Playbill, Rebecca Morehouse, that when When World War II began ''everything changed.
''
        Miss Dunn joined Ballets U.S.A., Mr. Robbins's touring company, at its inception in 1958, when it appeared at the Spoleto Festival in Italy and the World's Fair in Brussels.
The nurses, and two others who were lost in the sinking, were on their way to serve in London under the auspices of the American Red Cross and the Harvard Medical School in the months before the United States entered World War II.

       Evangeline Johnson Merrill, a prominent figure in the arts who was the last surviving child of Robert Wood Johnson, co-founder of Johnson & Johnson, died yesterday at Bryan Health Care Center in Hendersonville, N.C. She was 93 years old and lived at World's Edge Apple Organic Farm in Hendersonville.
Evangeline Johnson Merrill, a prominent figure in the arts who was the last surviving child of Robert Wood Johnson, co-founder of Johnson & Johnson, died yesterday at Bryan Health Care Center in Hendersonville, N.C. She was 93 years old and lived at World's Edge Apple Organic Farm in Hendersonville.
She was decorated by President Woodrow Wilson for her services in the Red Cross in World War I.
She traveled around the world seven times on the organization's behalf and represented it at conferences on five continents.
From 1930 to 1956, except for two years in World War II, Dr.
Helped Nazi Victims
        Earlier this year the Unitarian Universalist Services Committee honored Mrs. French for her work in the aftermath of World War II, when she directed two rest homes in France operated by the church organization for survivors of Nazi concentration camps.
But at 14, as the president of her class, she complained to the headmistress that because the school was all white she was not being prepared for the world in which she was going to live.
In World War II she served in the Office of Inter-American Affairs in Washington.
She was a chemist with the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb, during World War II.
She lived in West Germany and France for several years before joining the institute, which deals with problems of the third world, in 1976.
But when Mr. Young retired as a vice president of Pan American World Airways more than 20 years ago, the couple moved permanently to Sedona.
She was music editor of both the ''Encyclopedia of American History'' and ''Harper's Encyclopedia of the Modern World.

       Marion Rice Hart, a sportswoman and author who sailed a ketch around the world and in her later years made seven solo flights across the Atlantic, the last at 83 years old, died on Monday.
Marion Rice Hart, a sportswoman and author who sailed a ketch around the world and in her later years made seven solo flights across the Atlantic, the last at 83 years old, died on Monday.
''
        Before her flying career, Mrs. Hart had captained a 72-foot ketch around the world, most of the way alone.
After the three-year voyage, which ended in 1939, she became a ham radio operator and served in the Army Signal Corps throughout World War II.
'' (Vanguard Press, 1938), an account of her navigations around the world.
Her other notable films include the 1940 ''Night Train,'' directed by Carol Reed, in which she co-starred with Rex Harrison in a tale of World War II espionage; ''The Stars Look Down'' (1941), another Reed film, about a catastrophe in an English mining town; ''The Man in Gray'' (1943), a Regency period melodrama, and the 1945 hit ''The Wicked Lady,'' another period piece in which she played an aristocrat who joins a highwayman (James Mason) in his life of crime.
They were divorced during World War II.
Fritz Perls, a psychiatrist, was the better-known and more flamboyant of the pair, acting as teacher in residence at the Esalen Institute in Big Sur, Calif., during the 1960's heyday of the human potential movement it expounded, and traveling the world to train therapists.
After World War II, she was Lavinia in T. S. Eliot's ''Cocktail Party'' with Rex Harrison and Margaret Leighton, and Mrs. Guzzard in Eliot's ''Confidential Clerk.
During World War II, she became merchandising manager for the Bourne and Hollingsworth department store here, and designed some fashion.
In World War I she was a social worker with the Y.W.C.A.

       Dorothy Gillam Baker, a scholar and educator who researched patterns of development in world history, died on Aug. 3 at Albert Einstein Hospital in the Bronx.
Dorothy Gillam Baker, a scholar and educator who researched patterns of development in world history, died on Aug. 3 at Albert Einstein Hospital in the Bronx.
She traveled extensively and was a speaker at the World Citizens Assembly in Innsbruck, Austria, in 1976 and in Paris in 1977.
Dr. Brown was a judge of gymnastics at the London Olympic Games and a delegate to the 1938 World Gymnastic Championships.
Every man has a place in this world, but no man has a right to designate that place.
Saw Use for 'Talkies'
        Dr. Goodykoontz was with the Office of Education, a precursor to a Cabinet department, in the crisis brought on by the Great Depression and later by World War II.
''
        In 1935 she called for an increase in education programs for people mired in the Depression, and early in World War II she advocated day care so mothers could work in arms plants.
She was a member and official of many education organizations and was vice president of the United States National Committee for Childhood Education and of the World Organization for Childhood Education.
''
        Carol Channing, who had created the role of Dolly Gallagher Levi in the musical three years before Miss Bailey undertook the part, said: ''The entertainment world has lost one of its most creative performers of our time.
Every man has a place in this world, but no man has a right to designate that place.
In 1941, after her father's death and nine months before the United States entered World War II, Mrs. Stern and her brother, William E. Dodd Jr., published the Ambassador's diaries.
Mrs. Deutscher, born in Poland, escaped to England at the outbreak of World War II.
''
        This year, she traveled to Nicaragua for research for the World Council of Churches' study of ''Justice, Peace and the Integrity of Creation.
''
        ''Whether she is writing of the Rheingold girls or the boys in Washington,'' he observed, ''of social-minded mothers and their child victims, of the world of Miltown or the think-room at the United Nations, of the 'half-people' of our automotive age or the heirs of Senator McCarthy, she hews to the line and lets the quips fall where they may.
Wartime Analyst
        During part of World War II, she was an intelligence analyst with the Office of Strategic Services.
She was a first lieutenant in the Civil Air Patrol during World War II and flew missions along the New Jersey coast.
Mrs. Beyer began her career as secretary of the Minimum Wage Board for the District of Columbia after World War I.
Mrs. Smith had been a transport pilot for the Women's Air Force Service in World War II.
''
        A private person, she separated herself from the movie world when she left the set.

       Ruth Cheney Streeter, who commanded the Marine Corps Women's Reserve in World War II, died on Sunday at her home in Morristown, N.J., two days before her 95th birthday.
Ruth Cheney Streeter, who commanded the Marine Corps Women's Reserve in World War II, died on Sunday at her home in Morristown, N.J., two days before her 95th birthday.

       Lilian Thomson Mowrer, author of books about Europe on the eve of World War II, died Sunday at her home in Chicago.
Lilian Thomson Mowrer, author of books about Europe on the eve of World War II, died Sunday at her home in Chicago.
Mrs. Margolin joined the council during World War II and was a leader in efforts after the war to bring displaced people from Europe to the United States.
She spoke French, Italian and German, and the couple traveled extensively around the world.
Mrs. De Francisci's stylized portrait as Miss Liberty appeared on the silver dollar issued to mark the return of peace at the end of World War I.
It was the work of her husband, Anthony, a sculptor and the creator of many medals, including the inaugural medal for the 1964-65 World's Fair in New York.
Mrs. De Francisci's stylized portrait as Miss Liberty appeared on the silver dollar issued to mark the return of peace at the end of World War I.
It was the work of her husband, Anthony, a sculptor and the creator of many medals, including the inaugural medal for the 1964-65 World's Fair in New York.
She died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said her son David, of Parsippany, N.J.
        A graduate of Smith College, Mrs. Alvarez worked for The New York World Telegram and Sun for three years during World War II before interrupting her career to care for her family.
She died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said her son David, of Parsippany, N.J.
        A graduate of Smith College, Mrs. Alvarez worked for The New York World Telegram and Sun for three years during World War II before interrupting her career to care for her family.
Student of World Cultures
        In the early 1970's she began traveling, informally studying world cultures.
Student of World Cultures
        In the early 1970's she began traveling, informally studying world cultures.
She sang the title roles in the world premiere of Samuel Barber's ''Vanessa'' in 1958 and in the American premiere of Strauss's ''Arabella'' in 1955.
Mrs. Behrman, who was known as Madame Alexander, began designing dolls for her father, a Russian emigre, during World War I, when she began making ''Red Cross Nurse'' rag dolls.
With the advent of plastic after World War II, she made dolls with vinyl heads and elaborate hair that could be styled.
She liked to tell how during World War II, a serviceman dropped into her Manhattan tearoom-sweetshop and asked what the difference was between her chocolates at $9 a pound and those at $5 a pound.

        Mildred Riorden Blake, a former New York advertising writer who was a founder of the World Federalists, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Williamstown, Mass.
Mrs. Blake was active in civic and political circles, in particular the World Federalists, founded in 1938.
She was also a board member of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, the World Youth Forum, the New York Council on Alcoholism and the Institute for Mediterranean Affairs.

        Katharine Fisher Schwab, one of the first women to become an officer in the Navy at the outset of World War II, died on Monday at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut.
They had one child, Larry Martin Hagman, who -- as the world knows -- became famous as J. R. on television's "Dallas.
Dr. Joy, who had a Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley, wrote books about ways to attack world hunger and was a consultant to CARE and other humanitarian organizations.
Early in her career, in the immediate aftermath of World War II, she went to Europe, where she helped Jewish survivors of the war to re-create schools and libraries, and she recovered vast collections of books seized by the Nazis.
"I went there with the romantic belief that it might become the world center for a self-sustaining Yiddish culture.
"
        When she saw what turned out to be the beginning of the end of Jewish life in Poland, she immersed herself in Yiddish literature and Jewish history, so that she could help to preserve Jewish culture in the postwar world.
In articles in Commentary magazine and The New York Times, she wrote, first, that the Jews here did undertake wipespread efforts to awaken the government and world opinion to the fate of the European Jews.
Since there were no professional tournaments for women, she played a series of exhibitions until the outbreak of World War II, when she enlisted in the Hale America movement to assist in improving the physical condition of women and youngsters.
In it, according to Miss Leatherman, Miss Marble writes of her marriage to Joe Crowley, an Army pilot who was shot down and killed over Germany during World War II.
It is one of only three major holdings of Chinese ceramics given or promised to the museum since World War II.
" She married Henri G. Doll, an industrialist, inventor and director of research and development at Schlumberger Ltd. Their house on East 78th Street became a second home for musicians and dancers from all over the world, particularly Russian emigres, who were befriended and helped by the Dolls.
If her brother had gone through with his original intention of using another model, the secretarial school graduate said she would have whiled away her days as "the world's worst stenographer.
Dr. Lawson was founder of the international internship program at Mount Holyoke and for 40 years helped place more than 1,000 women in posts around the world.
She was a member of the Connecticut Valley World Affairs Council, the International Studies Association, the International Institute for Strategic Studies and the American Society of International Law.

        Gwen Harold Terasaki, whose book "Bridge to the Sun," about her life as the wife of a Japanese diplomat during World War II in Japan, became a best seller and a movie, died on Saturday after a brief illness.
Mrs. Bettman was a director of the Cincinnati Scholarship Foundation, the Cincinnati Council on World Affairs, and Working in Neighborhoods, a group that helps needy families.
Married in 1937, the Cousteaus for many years spent most of their time aboard the Calypso, sailing the world to study marine biology, conduct underwater explorations, make films and promote conservation.
