During World War II, she was chairman of the New Jersey Red Cross Canteen.
She was the author of "Decorative Folding Screens: 400 Years in the Western World" (1982; Viking) and curator of "The Folding Image," an exhibition sponsored by Yale University Art Gallery that opened in 1984 at the National Gallery of Art.
She spent the early part of World War II in Washington, urging the War Department to release critical materials for emergency housing.
Her management of emergency maternity and infant-care clinics for dependents of military personnel in World War II was recognized as innovative.
As the leader of 500,000 women in the Czechoslovak Sokol organizations after World War II, Mrs. Provaznik was regarded in her homeland as a national heroine.
She divorced the Archduke, who had served in the German Air Force during World War II, in 1954 and supported herself and her children by giving lectures on such topics as her life, Romania and world peace.
She divorced the Archduke, who had served in the German Air Force during World War II, in 1954 and supported herself and her children by giving lectures on such topics as her life, Romania and world peace.
In World War II she was with the Office of Inter-American Affairs in Washington.
Gravitating to singing, she had a brief career as a mezzo-soprano, appearing in nightclubs during World War II and as Carmen and in other roles at the fledgling New York City Opera in the 1940's.
In World War II she set up day-care centers in Philadelphia for children of women working in war plants.
In recent years, she was chairman of the Joyce Mertz Gilmore Foundation, which supports nonprofit activities in human rights, world security and the environment and New York City cultural and civic programs.
In World War II she served in the Office of Foreign Relief and Rehabilitation and helped form its United Nations counterpart, the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, for which she went to Europe in 1945 to arrange press relations at camps for displaced people.

        Alice Vansteenberghe, a World War II Resistance hero and physician who testified against the Nazi Gestapo chief Klaus Barbie, has died, officials said Tuesday.

        Ruth Mary Hill, a teacher and a vice president of Friends World College in Westbury, L.I., died on Feb. 6 in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 73 years old and lived in Fort Myers and Fort Myers Beach.
She was associate director of Friends World Institute, which was founded in East Norwich, L.I., in 1965 by the Religious Society of Friends as a four-year experimental program of world education.
She was associate director of Friends World Institute, which was founded in East Norwich, L.I., in 1965 by the Religious Society of Friends as a four-year experimental program of world education.
It later became Friends World College and moved to Huntington, L.I.
's World Service Council.
"
        Most recently, Ms. Marmelstein was working on a series of specials, "The Next Decade: The 90's, Our World in Transition.
"When she comes bounding in with all the young joyousness in the world at her first entrance in the birthday party scene," Mr. Martin, the Times critic, wrote, "the lights somehow seem to become brighter and the air fresher, and you know you are in the presence of magic.
Together with her late husband, Max Silverstein, and the late Rabbi Stephen Wise, she helped found the World Jewish Congress, which first met in Geneva in 1936.
She was also involved in aiding disabled veterans after World War II.

        Corinne Prevost Abel, a volunteer active in civic causes around the world, died last Friday in Colwell, England.
She came to the United States in the early days of World War II.
Despite the reputation of English children's clothes as the best in the world, her designs won accolades from critics at a London fashion show in 1962.
After World War II, she founded the Artists Veterans Hospital Programs of the Musicians Emergency Fund, which presented concerts for patients in veterans hospitals.
A twin brother was killed in action with the German Army in World War I.
At the end of World War II, she met her husband, then a lieutenant in the United States Army, while attending a sculpture course he was teaching at an Army school in Biarritz in France.
In World War II, she was a member of the American Women's Voluntary Services, driving Navy personnel to ships and planes in the New York and New Jersey metropolitan region.
She appeared in opera houses around the world, danced at the coronation of Emperor Hirohito of Japan in 1928 and gave programs in the Soviet Union in 1930.
In a Stravinsky Premiere
        Bolm and Miss Page again made history in 1928, when she portrayed Terpsichore in the world premiere of Stravinsky's "Apollo," choreographed by Bolm in Washington months before George Balanchine created his more familiar version of the ballet for Diaghilev.
In World War II, she served with the Office of Strategic Services.
In 1951 Dr. DuBois was named to direct a study of educational needs and resources of third world areas.

        Louise Dickinson Rich, the author of "We Took to the Woods," a best seller during World War II, died on Tuesday at her daughter's home in Mattapoisett, Mass.
Mrs. Kinoy, a graduate of Teachers College, was a social worker with the American Red Cross during World War I and later taught at the Brooklyn Ethical Culture School and at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
The Graham technique, which is now used by dance companies throughout the world, became the first enduring alternative to the idiom of classical ballet.
Audiences throughout the world were often disturbed by Miss Graham's frank acknowledgment of human sexuality, especially in her famous cycle inspired by Greek myths.
Received Financial Help From Many Individuals
        Before World War II, Miss Graham took on outside assignments.
"We must look to America to bring forth an art as powerful as America itself," she said, and produced such works as "American Document," "American Provincials," "Appalachian Spring," "Letter to the World" and "Salem Shore.
She was also director of liaison for the fashion industries at the American National Exhibition in Moscow in 1959 and 1967, executive director of Fashion Capital of the World Inc. from 1973 to 1974, and a trustee of the Coty Awards.
In the 1960's, financial problems led Cooper Union to end its ties with the museum, which by then was what Paul Goldberger, The Times critic, called "one of the world's finest storehouses of objects of design and the decorative arts -- with everything from collections of wallpaper to bird cages.
In the 1960's, financial problems led Cooper Union to end its ties with the museum, which by then was what Paul Goldberger, The Times critic, called "one of the world's finest storehouses of objects of design and the decorative arts -- with everything from collections of wallpaper to bird cages.

        Kathryn Teaze, a Red Cross volunteer whose more than 70 years of service spanned two world wars, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Fairfield, Conn. She was 93 years old and lived in Weston, Conn.
        She died of pneumonia, a family spokesman said.
She joined the Red Cross at the age of 18, shortly after the start of World War I, and became captain of the motor corps for the chapter in Bloomfield.
When World War II began, she became co-captain of the Red Cross Motor Corps.
The building contained a 300-seat theater, a non-profit school of fine arts, studio apartments for musicians and dancers, and the Riverside Museum, a small, vanguard institution that became known for showing work that differed from the prevailing currents in the art world.

        Clara Leiser, founder of Youth of All Nations, a nonprofit peace organization that grew out of her experience with refugee children in World War II, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Koehn's first book, "Mischling, Second Degree," described her experiences as a child of part-Jewish parentage growing up in Berlin under the Nazis and in evacuation camps during World War II.
After World War II, Mrs. Cavert directed a two-year study of women in churches in 54 countries.
This preceded the meeting in Amsterdam of the First Assembly of the World Council of Churches, which recommended that churches give a full range of responsibilities to women.

        Ana Cristina Bozzo, an art teacher at Hunter College High School who spent the last decade organizing the International Art Show for the End of World Hunger, died Monday at Doctors Hospital in Manhattan.
Working in her living room at night, on weekends and on vacations, Ms. Bozzo, who was born in Buenos Aires, assembled the show by asking noted artists to donate or lend works that represented their vision of a world without hunger.
The exhibition toured 18 cities around the world, starting with a preview in Washington in 1986 and ending in March at El Museo del Barrio in New York City.
She was a member of the board of overseers of the Jewish Theological Seminary and the board of directors of the United Synagogue of America, vice president of the World Council of Synagogues and secretary of the national association of Solomon Schechter Day Schools.
She published short stories and a novella, and in 1966 she edited "Peace Is Possible: A Reader on World Order.
" Achieving world peace was a cause for which she worked closely with Mr. Hollins, who died in March.
Her father was killed in World War I when she was 10 and her mother died when she was 18, leaving her elder brother, Edward, as her only close relative.
Other comedy successes included "Easy Living," "You Can't Take It With You," "The Devil and Miss Jones," "The Talk of the Town," "The More the Merrier," in which she, with Joel McCrea and Charles Coburn, wrestled with the housing shortage in World War II Washington, and "A Foreign Affair.
In the 1950's, Ms. Jiang held only minor posts in the cultural world, and there are some indications that the marriage was not going well.
From 1960 to 1980, she owned and operated Young World.
It was syndicated by The Los Angeles Times and carried five days a week by 450 newspapers around the world.
Mr. Morgenthau, like many other figures in the economic world, was unaware that S. F. Porter was a woman.
In her second book, "If War Comes to the American Home," published in 1941 on the eve of America's entry into World War II, she drew on the experience of World War I to tell families how they might be affected in a war economy.
In her second book, "If War Comes to the American Home," published in 1941 on the eve of America's entry into World War II, she drew on the experience of World War I to tell families how they might be affected in a war economy.

        Margaret L. Suckley, an aide and confidante of Franklin D. Roosevelt during World War II and an archivist at the nation's first Presidential Library at Hyde Park, N.Y., died on Saturday at Wilderstein, her home in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 99 years old.
She attended Bryn Mawr and during World War I served as a nurse's aide at a military hospital on Ellis Island.
Mrs. Balter, who was born in Amsterdam and moved to the United States with her family just before World War II, was also on the board of the Garrison Art Center, where she established a Scholarship and Mentor Program in which artists worked with promising local pupils.
Mrs. Fisher founded the Thelonious Monk Institute in 1986 with the aim of creating the world's first music conservatory devoted solely to jazz.
In World War II she was a founder of the Stage Door Canteen in Washington.
Mrs. Halperin's first major work of translation was Francis Ambriere's "Long Holiday," a World War II prison camp memoir published in 1948.
And she traveled the world reviving the elder Nijinska's works with selfless devotion.
But more importantly, she cared deeply about the world, the nation, this city and its people.
The Peabodys moved around a bit before World War II.
During World War II Mrs. Tree worked as a researcher at Life magazine.
She also was on the boards of
        CBS and Pan American World Airways.
After graduating she worked as a chemist in a paper mill in World War I.
The test was adopted as the standard by the United States in 1941 and by the World Health Organization in 1952, and is still in use today.
"
        In praising her poetry, the critic Paul Auster wrote that "in poem after poem, we witness her trying somehow to peel back the skin of the world in order to find some absolute and unassailable place of permanence.
By the 1940's her clothing company was described as the largest of its kind in the world.
By the 1940's her clothing company was described as the largest of its kind in the world.
While touring the world in the mid-1930's with the Victor Dandre-Alexander Levitov Ballet, the successor to Pavlova's company, Miss Spessivtzeva began to suffer from increasingly serious breakdowns.
Her health improved, and members of the dance world occasionally visited her.
"He is my world," she said in 1960.
A Harvard freshman named Norman Mailer won a Story college-writing prize for a piece entitled "The Greatest Thing in the World.
"
        Her films included "Ah, Wilderness!," with Lionel Barrymore; "Gold Diggers of 1933"; "The Search," with Montgomery Clift; "The Eddie Cantor Story"; "The Lady Is Willing," with Marlene Dietrich; "The World Changes," with Paul Muni; "Five Star Final," with Edward G. Robinson; "One Way Passage," with William Powell; "Flame and Arrow," with Burt Lancaster; "I Live My Life," with Joan Crawford, and "Babbitt.
" (1978); "All About the Symphony Orchestra and What It Plays" (1961); "Lullabies of the World" (1967), and a compilation of letters exchanged by her husband and the playwright Eugene O'Neill.
Omus Hirshbein, vice chairman of the Tisch Center for the Arts at the 92d Street Y.M.H.A., said yesterday that Miss Rosenthal "was an extraordinary woman in the sense that she brought a cultured aspect of the Old World that is gone today, and passed that on to many generations of kids.

        Mary S. Painter Garin, an American economist who was an important innovator in the use of statistical techniques during and immediately after World War II, died Monday in Toulon, France, near her home in Sollies-Toucas.
Miss Painter, as she was known professionally, was one of a small group of economists who made national-income analysis a powerful tool for government and military policy-making from World War II on.
Her article "Estimates of Gross National Product, 1919 Through 1928," published in the Federal Reserve bulletin in September 1945, used new Commerce Department concepts to calculate the gross national product for the 10 years after World War I.
She was a board member of the United Service Organizations during World War II and the Korean war.
She married Alfred R. Bachrach, a prominent accounting executive and president of Temple Emanu-El, the world's largest Reform Jewish congregation.
"The Nobel Prize for literature is unequaled in prestige in the world.
"
        The South African Government banned "A World of Strangers," published in 1958 and describing the difficulties experienced by a Briton establishing friendships with black South Africans in segregated Johannesburg.
In "Family Sayings," she mingled her family story -- dominated by her impatient scientist father and ever-cheerful mother -- with the events of Italian history in the period between the two world wars.
" with Lionel Barrymore, "Gold Diggers of 1933," "The Search" with Montgomery Clift, "The Eddie Cantor Story," "The Lady Is Willing" with Marlene Dietrich, "The World Changes" with Paul Muni, "Five Star Final" with Edward G. Robinson, "One Way Passage" with William Powell, "Flame and Arrow" with Burt Lancaster, "I Live My Life" with Joan Crawford and "Babbitt.
After World War II, she was transferred to the Department of State and sent to the Mission to the United Nations, where she worked with Eleanor Roosevelt when she was chairwoman of the Commission on Human Rights from 1946 to 1951.
The events showcased artists, often attracted wide publicity and took place at locales like Shea Stadium, Grand Central Terminal, the Staten Island Ferry and the World Trade Center.
She was married and divorced from Byron Darnton, a reporter for The New York Times who was the first American correspondent killed while covering World War II.
Mrs. Martin became an artist after serving in the Waves in World War II and after attending the California School of Fine Arts, where she studied under Hassell Smith.
Nelson A. Rockefeller to the New York State Council of Women, she was the principal author of a report, "New York Women and Their Changing World.
During World War II she served in a number of executive positions with the Brooklyn chapter of the Motor Transport Service of the American Women's Voluntary Services, the organization that aided the armed forces and local military bases.
In World War II she served as an Army psychologist and then worked at several institutions in New York, Buffalo and Niagara Falls, N.Y. She retired as an educational psychologist at City College in 1980.
