''
        From 1973 onward, the Rothko Chapel doubled as a center for colloquiums aimed at fostering mutual understanding on issues affecting justice and freedom throughout the world.
A refined, elegant woman who loved opera, collected art, spoke eight languages fluently, traveled the world with confident ease and made millions in the stock market, she was an intensely private person of such shadowy origins that the United States Chess Federation lists her birthplace simply as Europe, and until recently her best friend had no idea she had once been married.
Representing Palestine in the 1937 women's world championships in Stockholm, she placed sixth.
Playing for the United States at the 1939 World Championships in Buenos Aires, she came in fifth.
The winner both times was Vera Menchik, who held the women's world title from 1927 until her death in 1944 and was one of only two women, along with Judit Polgar, a current international grandmaster, to hold their own against men in the highest levels of the game.
After women's world championship competition resumed in 1950, Miss Karff represented the United States in several tournaments, always finishing well back in the field.
May Karff,'' typically without explaining what the ''N'' stood for, had moved to New York and emerged as Mona May Karff, a name she used when she made a tour of Europe in 1948 for the One World movement.
Ms. Costello joined the faculty of the Curtis Institute in 1962, and taught harpists who eventually took positions in many of the world's great orchestras, including the Berlin Philharmonic, the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra, the St. Louis Symphony and the National Symphony.
At Douglass, she introduced a multilingual course in world poetry run by the students, as well as a program of part-time study for married women.
Dr. Hawkins encouraged the establishment of an interdepartmental program in ethnic arts that later became the world arts and cultures program.
''
        Like countless other street toughs before and after him, Mr. Baker, who had just got out of jail, found himself on his feet taking the first steps with a load of trays that would lead him  into Sister Bernadette's world of service before self.
To the international surfing world, Ms. Sunn was the longboard champion who challenged the men on their own surf and helped make the sport safe for women as a founder of the first women's professional tour.
By the time her cancer was diagnosed in 1983, Ms. Sunn had established the credentials that would qualify her to become one of the first five women inducted into the International Surfing Museum's Walk of Fame in Huntington Beach, Calif.
        A native of Makaha, a small town on Oahu's leeward coast, about 25 miles northwest of Honolulu, Ms. Sunn grew up just three blocks from one of the world's most storied surfing beaches, a reef-ringed stretch of water where big waves abound and the surf is almost always up.
Riding the waves around the world, she competed in California, Australia, South Africa, France and elsewhere.
1 world ranking for eight years and did not lose a set while amassing a 180-match winning streak from 1927 to 1933.
''
        She was sketched by Matisse, photographed by Cecil Beaton and Horst, listed as one of the world's best-dressed women and featured in Vogue and Harper's Bazaar.
''I never behaved as if the world revolved around him,'' Mrs. Hirshon once recalled about her marriage to Mr. Paley.
During World War II, she was a hearing officer and arbitrator for the National War Labor Board.
In her long career, she also wrote for The World Journal Tribune, Newsday, The New York Times Syndicate and The Los Angeles Times Entertainment Syndicate and was a frequent guest on television programs.
She served in the Marine Corps Women's Reserve in World War II.
She made that observation in 1942 when she was a research physicist at the University of Illinois, but it was classified top secret and not announced until after World War II.
''I wanted to understand what the world is made of.
As a professor of education and an author who specialized in curriculum development, Dr. Miel (pronounced mile) taught and left her imprint on the subject throughout the country and around the world.
She taught and wrote that a good teacher was a student with the world as the classroom.
She promoted the concept that education should be a vehicle toward a world community and intercultural understanding, beginning at home.
After World War II, Ms. Gellhorn adopted a son in Italy and raised him, largely on her own, in Mexico and other countries, where she supported herself with a string of articles for women's magazines.
Ms. Gellhorn had decided that she could no longer live in the United States, and moved from Cuba to Italy to Mexico to Kenya until finally settling in Britain, where she spent her  last 15 years shuttling between a small cottage in Wales, an apartment in London and the world's trouble spots.
For many years, Mrs. Milbank, who was known as Posy, divided her time between the United Nations in New York and Red Cross meetings around the world.
Rail-thin, exotically featured and crowned with a lion's mane of hair that gave her the look of a space-age Nefertiti, Chesbrough (Chessy) Lewis Hall was born in 1931 in Perrysburg, Ohio, into a privileged world where little was expected of a young woman except a fairy tale debut, a comfortable marriage and an entry in the Social Register.
She studied music at Indiana University in Bloomington, but suspended her studies during World War II to become a civilian flight instructor in Muncie, Ind.

        Jean Blackwell Hutson, who as curator and then chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture helped make it the world's main public repository of materials on people of African descent, died on  Wednesday at Harlem Hospital.
Today, the Schomburg Collection holds some 150,000 volumes, 3.5 million manuscripts, the largest assemblage of photographs in the world documenting black life, and precious artifacts including a 16th-century manuscript, ''Ad Catholicum,'' by Juan Latino, believed to be the first book written by a black man.
      
Mrs. Kampen, whose other books include ''Are You Carrying Any Gold or Living Relatives?,'' a 1970 account of a trip to the Soviet Union, also wrote widely for magazines, turned out self-deprecating columns about her life for local newspapers and talked her way repeatedly around the world as a cruise-ship lecturer.

        Hansel Mieth Hagel, a photographer who documented the Great Depression and World War II for Time, Fortune and Life magazines, died on Feb. 14 at a friend's home in Santa Rosa, Calif. She was 88 and lived on a ranch nearby.
She also rode her bicycle at breakneck speed around the great hall, and during World War II, when the house was shuttered, she maintained, tongue in cheek, that she kept America safe through her volunteer work as a plane spotter on the roof of a boys school in Newport.
Earlier, during World War II, he had been sent to a concentration camp for activities with the Hungarian Red Cross and his relief work for Polish and Jewish refugees.
She first joined the World Federalists, a group that worked to influence governments toward peace, but came to believe that an organization that directly involved private citizens would be more effective.
''When the bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, I realized that something enormous had happened, something that had never happened before and that people should take responsibility about what to do about it, for the world would be a really different place from now on,'' she said in a videotaped history of the academy, which is based in Manhattan.
The couple set up the Institute for the Study of Consciousness in Berkeley in 1972, believing that the world had become too focused on material objects and needed a new spiritual and moral order.

        Jeanette Wakin, an expert in the arcane world of medieval Islamic law, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Her friends attributed the slight to the internecine world of academic politics.
She took an active and compassionate interest in the modern Islamic world.
It might yet have remained a mystery if within months of the book's publication, the world's crystallographers had not held their triennial meeting on Long Island, at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, practically next door to the Sayres' longtime home in the North Shore village of Head of the Harbor.
She also conducted a weekly broadcast, ''The World of Children's Literature,'' on WNYC radio in the 1970's and continued as a visiting lecturer on library sciences at Columbia University until 1979.
Revered in Russia from the moment she made her debut in Leningrad's Maryinsky Ballet in 1928, she riveted the Western world in 1956 when she traveled with the Bolshoi Ballet to London's Royal Opera House.
Inspired by Prokofiev's score to ''Romeo and Juliet'' (one of three he wrote for the ballerina) and by the bold choreography of Leonid Lavrovsky, Miss Ulanova's dancing, and that of the Bolshoi, helped make the case after Stalin's death that Russian classical ballet remained the finest in the world.
''Her life and the art of dance to which she has give her soul has become part of Russian and world culture.
''
        That was before she came to appreciate that to Jung dreams, like myths, fantasies and fairy tales are as real as the world itself -- and that a problem exists when somebody has trouble telling the two levels of reality apart.
Babe Paley, a perennial name on the world's best-dressed list and a glittering figure in society, also died in 1978, at 62, four months before her older sister.
Mr. Roosevelt went on to become a decorated Marine officer in World War II, a six-term Congressman from California and a delegate to the United Nations during the Johnson Administration.
Artists like Klee and Picasso, she said, gave her the means to create word canvases depicting the world around her.
Born Hilda Auerbach in Manhattan, Ms. Morley considered herself an inhabitant of the world.

        Jeanette Wakin, an expert in the arcane world of medieval Islamic law, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Her friends attributed the slight to the internecine world of academic politics, one of the few fields as tortuously complex as Islamic law.
She took an active and compassionate interest in the modern Islamic world.
And she was a leader of a conference of nongovernmental organizations that paralleled the United Nations' fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995.

        Kasey Cisyk, an opera-trained singer who never made it to the Met but whose haunting coloratura soprano became one of the world's most listened-to voices, died on March 29 at her home in Manhattan.
In the capricious world of show business, she never enjoyed splashy success, but in the backwaters of her profession, where most singers, after all, spend their entire careers, Miss Cisyk, a tiny, slender woman with a smile as big as her heart, made her share of waves.
She worked as a backup singer for Carly Simon and Quincy Jones; she dubbed the Oscar-winning title song for the 1977 movie ''You Light Up My Life,'' and in the demanding world of commercial jingles, she was a star, one whose very anonymity was a critical asset.
For all her promise, Miss Cisyk, whose father died when she was 17, was drawn away from opera and into the world of jingles by the pressing need to make a living.
She found work singing in clubs in New York, but for a while in the mid-70's she despaired of breaking into the tight-knit world of commercials.
Suddenly she was in such demand that a typical day, she later recalled, would begin with a 9 A.M. session for Trans World Airlines, followed by Coca-Cola at 11, Hartz Mountain at 1 P.M., Eastern Airlines at 2, Datsun at 3, L'Eggs at 5, McDonald's at 6, and, after all that, a recording session from 8:30 P.M. to 3 A.M.
        By the time Ford came calling in 1981, she had learned to pace herself.
She may never have made it to the Met or even had a popular hit record in the United States, but she was not a complete unknown in the world of music.

        Felicie Young Cormier and Marie-Louise Febronie Meilleur, who lived through more tumultuous history, saw more social and technological change and endured more late-life congratulations than any two people known to be alive, died within two days of each other this week, ending their rival reigns as the world's oldest living person.
Mrs. Meilleur, who had a birth certificate and other proofs of age that qualified her for the oldest living person listing in the Guinness Book of World Records, was 117 when she died on Thursday afternoon at a nursing home in North Bay, Ontario.
For all the public interest in longevity, the deaths of the two women suggest a trend: the world's oldest people do not seem to be as old as they used to.
''
        World War II broke up the band for some years.
But the McCartneys' 29-year marriage was uncommonly steady by the standards of the celebrity world of which they were a part but from which they generally remained aloof, spending most of their time on a farm in West Sussex, England.
Her work has also been the subject of exhibitions at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, the Royal Photographic Society in Bath, England, and at more than 50 galleries around the world.
Over the next dozen years, Dr. Schele and others deciphered and interpreted inscriptions throughout the Mayan realm, but it was not until 1986, when Dr. Schele helped organize an exhibition at the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth that the world learned the full implications of the work: Far from being an ethereal peaceful people, the Mayans were a warring nation who tortured and sometimes sacrificed their captives, whose nobles engaged in blood-letting rituals to placate their gods and whose king was required to stick a rod through the shaft of his own penis on ceremonial occasions.
The extraordinary success that followed propelled Mr. Dilenschneider to the top of Hill & Knowlton, the world's largest public relations firm, and Ms. Connelly rose to become its first female executive vice president and head of worldwide business development.
She toured and recorded with the band from 1934 to 1936, and reunited occasionally with Goodman after World War II.
She was known in the art world as a charismatic figure, with a sharp and enthusiastic eye for new art.
1 hits in 1968 -- ''Stand By Your Man,'' ''Take Me To Your World'' and ''D-I-V-O-R-C-E'' -- established both her public image and her style, concentrating on weepers about holding a marriage together and unending love.
Classics by Queen Of Country Music
        By The Associated Press
        My Elusive Dreams with David Houston (1967)
        I Don't Wanna Play House 1967
        Take Me To Your World 1968
        D-I-V-O-R-C-E 1968
        Stand By Your Man 1968
        Singing My Song 1969
        The Ways To Love A Man 1969
        He Loves Me All The Way 1970
        Run, Woman, Run (1970)
        Good Lovin' (Makes It Right) 1971
        Bedtime Story 1972
        My Man 1972
        'Til I Get It Right 1973
        Kids Say The Darndest Things 1973
        We're Gonna Hold On 1973
        Another Lonely Song 1974
        'Til I Can Make It On My Own 1976
        Golden Ring 1976
        You and Me 1976
        Near You 1976
      
''I'm not the best singer in the world, just the loudest,'' she once declared.
1 hits she had in 1968 -- ''Stand By Your Man,'' ''Take Me to Your World'' and ''D-I-V-O-R-C-E'' -- established both her public image and her style, concentrating on weepers about holding a marriage together or declaring her unending love.
1 Songs By Tammy Wynette
        By The Associated Press
        My Elusive Dreams with David Houston 1967
        I Don't Wanna Play House 1967
        Take Me To Your World 1968
        D-I-V-O-R-C-E 1968
        Stand By Your Man 1968
        Singing My Song 1969
        The Ways To Love A Man 1969
        He Loves Me All The Way 1970
        Run, Woman, Run 1970
        Good Lovin' (Makes It Right) 1971
        Bedtime Story 1972
        My Man 1972
        'Til I Get It Right 1973
        Kids Say The Darndest Things 1973
        We're Gonna Hold On 1973
        Another Lonely Song 1974
        'Til I Can Make It On My Own 1976
        Golden Ring 1976
        You and Me 1976
        Near You 1976
      
The idea of team nursing sprang from her doctoral dissertation, and in the decades afterward, the concept made her a mentor and teacher to generations of health professionals around the world.
) buttons on a stylish new jacket led her down a rabbit hole of miniature wonder into an enchanted world awash in buttons, died on April 3 at Beth Israel Hospital North near her tiny town house on the Upper East Side.
Torok was a landmark figure, very important within the world of psychoanalysis,'' Dr. Furman said, ''remembered for the manner in which she brought back the importance of individual experience within the limits of the theoretical apparatus of psychoanalysis.
''
        Mrs. Douglas began her book simply: ''There are no other Everglades in the world.
During World War I, she served with the American Red Cross in France, Belgium, Italy and in the Balkans.
When the bleeding stopped within minutes and the wound healed rapidly without a scar, Mrs. Maxwell knew she had found her life's work: ferreting out remedies used by the Indians for centuries and introducing them to the modern world.
She could also speak authoritatively on subjects like world literature, the British royal family and baseball, a sport she became devoted to after moving to New York in 1951.
Miss Manchester was born in London and worked there as a dance critic for Theater World magazine from 1941 to 1943.
As a student at Vassar when the United States entered World War I, she was so determined to do her part for the cause that she helped form a Vassar unit of the women's Land Army, established to have women work the fields in place of mobilized farmers.
Famous for her beauty, she traveled the world in a sophisticated and fearless way, and finally landed in Mexico, where she lived for the rest of her life.
In her last years, Natasha Gelman lived somewhat apart from the world, but distant echoes of her past could occasionally be detected -- as when she would ask to be taken to the only restaurant in Cuernavaca that could produce a genuine Hungarian goulash.
Then again, by the time she was finished, Dame Catherine had said quite a lot about the grim life she knew as a girl and illuminated in scores of novels, almost all of them set in the same working-class world she grew up dreaming of escaping.
She also appeared on numerous television series, including ''Beekman Place,'' ''Another World,'' ''Police Story'' and ''The Love Boat.
Mrs. Lipman's devotion to art eventually inspired her to try her own hand at it, combining painting and collage to depict desert landscapes and historical events and explore art world topics.
As Miss Stickney remembered, she and her husband went home and cried: ''Little did we realize that the play would last through World War II.
Mrs. Davies, whose husband, Ralph K. Davies, an oil millionaire, died in 1971, bestowed millions of dollars on many cultural, educational and medical charities in the Bay Area, including the Exploratorium, the World Affairs Council, the Conservatory of Music, the University of San Francisco, Stanford University and the San Francisco Opera.
The drawings had come from a cache of artworks that was originally part of a collection looted from the Bremen Museum in Germany at the end of World War II.
She designed more than a dozen of the director's productions, including ''Endgame,'' ''Waiting for Godot'' ''Tourists and Refugees,'' ''The Bald Soprano'' and his collaborations with Sam Shepard: ''Tongues,'' ''Savage Love,'' ''The War in Heaven'' and ''When the World Was Green (A Chef's Fable).
'' She found it fascinating and saw in it what she interpreted to be a prediction of World War II.
Helen was 12 when she was introduced to the world over the airwaves of XET in Monterrey, Mexico, and in her teen-age years became the most dependable musician of her mother's band, playing accordion, guitar and autoharp.
Ms. Perles's clients over the years included Woody Allen; Nancy Allen, the actress-wife of Brian De Palma, the movie director; the former Eve Ella Sherpick Green, the first wife of Harry B. Helmsley, the New York real estate titan; David Merrick, the producer; and Ethel Scull, who once was called the doyenne of the pop art world.
At the end of World War II they moved to Italy, where she made several films, including ''Fugitive Lady'' with Janis Paige and Eduardo Cianelli.
Her Russian-born maternal grandfather had been a rabbi in New Haven, and her mother had been so eager to fight the Nazis in World War II that she joined the Canadian Army in 1940, a year before the United States entered the war and she was able to transfer to the newly organized Women's Army Corps.

        Edith Appleton Standen, one of the world's leading authorities on tapestries and a longtime curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died last weekend at her home in Manhattan.
With World War II  under way, Ms. Standen became an American citizen and joined the Women's Army Corps, ending up in Ohio working for the Air Force.
In 1986, she began to compile a biennial newsletter about tapestries, which she distributed in the academic world.
''We thought we were going to be the greatest writers in the world,'' she told The Los Angeles Times in 1995.
''There is an abundance of  psychological and historic richness to her characters,'' Elizabeth Benedict wrote in The Washington Post in 1995, ''and she can be wickedly eloquent about the costs of living in a world where the shadings in the color of one's skin are more important than the bonds between blood relatives.
She was easing our entry into a world that outranked us  and outnumbered us.
The memory of how she learned she could not was still painful decades later: the white doctor telling her briskly, ''There are already enough black people in the world.
''It shows a world that most people have rarely seen, a world where black  families are all highly educated, very successful, living in Martha's  Vineyard,'' Miss Winfrey said.
''It shows a world that most people have rarely seen, a world where black  families are all highly educated, very successful, living in Martha's  Vineyard,'' Miss Winfrey said.

        Mildred Elizabeth Buller Smith, who cut a singular swath through the 20th century by, among other things, picking apples and digging potatoes for the Women's Land Army in World War I, riding herd on New England milk prices for the Office of Price Administration in World War II and becoming a Connecticut television celebrity as a consumer price specialist, died on Aug. 12 at a nursing home in Hartford.

        Mildred Elizabeth Buller Smith, who cut a singular swath through the 20th century by, among other things, picking apples and digging potatoes for the Women's Land Army in World War I, riding herd on New England milk prices for the Office of Price Administration in World War II and becoming a Connecticut television celebrity as a consumer price specialist, died on Aug. 12 at a nursing home in Hartford.
With three of her four older brothers serving in the military in World War I, she was so eager to do her part that, ignoring her mother's objections, she dropped out of the University of Chicago to enlist in the Women's Land Army, a paramilitary organization that sought to fill the vacuum left by mobilized farm workers.
Seeking work in Washington in World War II, she landed a job at a law firm and was so good at taking legal dictation that she began to study law, first in Washington and later at Indiana University, where she obtained two law degrees while her husband, Charles Otis Stout, was studying for his doctorate.
The Mexican literary world ''is in mourning again,'' said Mr. Tovar y de Teresa.
They lived in Paris after World War II and became part of the literary group that included the Argentine poet Jorge Luis Borges and the Surrealist Andre Breton.
In a business world where women have had to pick their way through contradictory advice on how to dress for success, Sister Irene never had a wardrobe worry.
The young dancers of Nrityagram soon began touring the world.
Mrs. Blumkin's own nominee for the nation's greatest businessman was her son, Louis, who became her major ally in running the Furniture Mart after returning from military service in World War II.
The couple were on their way to meetings of the World Health Organization in Geneva.
Earlier in her career she served as a special epidemiologist on the World Health Organization's smallpox program in Uttar Pradesh, India.
''
        A contemporary of Eleanor Roosevelt, whose passions for human rights she shared, Ms. Bernardino joined Mrs. Roosevelt and three other women who were delegates to the first United Nations General Assembly in 1946 -- Jean McKenzie of New Zealand, Evdokia Uralova of the Soviet Union and Ellen Wilkinson of Britain -- in writing an ''Open Letter to the Women of the World'' calling on women to take a more active role in politics and government.
Bernardino spoke up for women in the aftermath of World War II, understanding that life for women would never be the same, '' said Kristen Timothy, deputy director of the United Nations Division for the Advancement of Women.
The books dealt with serious themes in such detail that it is little wonder that Mrs. Irwin's children, who appear in various guises throughout the series, would want the world to know that their mother did not draw on their experiences in exploring problems like teen-age suicide (''So Long at the Fair''), alcoholism (''Can't Hear You Listening'') or racism (''Kim/Kimi''), let alone incest, the breakthrough subject of the 1985 Hadley Irwin book, ''Abby, My Love.
Known by the abbreviation ''FloJo'' -- even her name was fast -- she set the world record for 100 meters at 10.49 seconds at the 1988 Olympic trials in Indianapolis, then established the mark of 21.34 seconds in winning the 200 meters at the 1988 Summer Games in Seoul, South Korea, where Griffith Joyner also won gold in the 100 meters and the 4x100-meter relay.
She set the world record in the 100 meters on July 16, 1988, on a day of swirling wind in Indianapolis.
The statistics manual used by track and field's world governing body now includes an asterisk by Griffith Joyner's time and the remarks, ''probably strongly wind assisted.
''
        Yet, it was one that continued to have Griffith Joyner's achievements judged with some ambivalence by her rivals, including Ashford, the former world record-holder at 100 meters who finished second to Griffith Joyner in the 1988 Summer Olympics.
She turned out reams of  papers, edited anthologies and in 1989 published ''Skipping Around the World,'' a study of international  jump-rope rhymes.
Mrs. Rosenberg said that she originally wrote her book in 1948 as a way to deal with the paralyzing guilt she felt as a Holocaust survivor, and that she published it to satisfy her brother Romek's last request that she stay alive to tell the story of the Kolomyja ghetto to the world.
Over many years, Mrs. Spaeth and her husband, Otto L. Spaeth, an industrialist and a vice president of the Whitney Museum of American Art, put together a collection that concentrated on European and American art between the two world wars, including works by Picasso, Matisse, Alexander Calder, Edward Hopper, Georgia O'Keeffe, Stuart Davis and Charles Sheeler.
In the early 1960's, as a way to raise money for the Archives of American Art Mrs. Spaeth started organizing art junkets to sites around the world, a device since adopted by many museums.
She was one of only a few women who were correspondents in World War II.

        Toots Barger, a perennial world champion in a decidedly regional sport, died on Monday at a retirement home in Frederick, Md.
If the former Mary Elizabeth Ryan's record of 13 world duckpin championships and 9 world scoring records doesn't sound impressive, it's a safe bet you haven't stood at the head of a regulation, 60-foot bowling lane and tried to knock down 10 undersized (9-inch tall) pins placed at the usual 12 inches spacing with a 3-pound ball just 5 inches in diameter.
If the former Mary Elizabeth Ryan's record of 13 world duckpin championships and 9 world scoring records doesn't sound impressive, it's a safe bet you haven't stood at the head of a regulation, 60-foot bowling lane and tried to knock down 10 undersized (9-inch tall) pins placed at the usual 12 inches spacing with a 3-pound ball just 5 inches in diameter.
During World War II, when London was prone to sudden bombing, she appeared in the Open Air Theater in Regent's Park.
During World War II, she appeared in a number of patriotic movies intended to boost morale and support the war effort, including ''Millions Like Us'' (1943), about wartime factory workers, and ''The Lamp Still Burns,'' in which she played, not for the first or last time, a nurse.
Her marriage to Dr. Calderone, who later became chief administrative officer of the World Health Organization, produced two more daughters, Dr. Francesca Calderone-Steichen, a gerontologist, and Dr. Maria Calderone, a veterinarian in Galena, Ohio, born almost 20 years after her oldest daughter, Linda Hodes, a psychotherapist in Albuquerque, N.M.
She also helped lead a team of the paper's reporters who  covered the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center.

        IN November 1939, shortly after Adolf Hitler touched off World War II, a British writer commented about the two World Wars: ''The last one was a soldier's war.

        IN November 1939, shortly after Adolf Hitler touched off World War II, a British writer commented about the two World Wars: ''The last one was a soldier's war.
She flew planes for the Army Air Forces in World War II and will mark another Veterans Day on Nov. 11.
A world traveler, Mrs. Benson also had shows of wall-hangings from Pakistan, pre-Columbian sculpture, African sculptures, Jain manuscripts and Indian thankas.
In 1970, she made a series of light tunnels for the Sao Paulo Biennale in Brazil, and in 1988 she was the American representative to World Expo 88 in Brisbane, Australia, where she exhibited a 20-foot-high sculpture of Cor-Ten steel.
Not until the end of World War II -- which she spent in Japan, feeling ''totally out of place,'' said a colleague from her embassy days -- did her bicultural background become useful.
Whatever its pedigree, in Miss Parla's hands, or rather hips, the dance the world came to know as the rumba was such an appealing sight that she and it became overnight sensations.
''
        The decision may well have been crucial in allowing the rumba's eventual acceptance by a puritanical world, since for all Miss Parla's sensuous gyrations, the sight of a woman dancing alone was simply not as sexually suggestive as a couple dancing together.
After her first husband, the playboy son of a wealthy rancher, discovered he couldn't keep her down on the finca after she'd seen Paree, Miss Parla obtained a divorce and later married Guillermo Amuchastegui, a celebrated jai alai player who took her all over the world, and she hobnobbed with the likes of Orson Welles and Esther Williams (when she wasn't in Cuba hobnobbing with Ernest Hemingway).
At the time of her death, Ms. Baer was working with the dance historian Lynn Garafola on ''The Ballets Russes and Its World,'' a book to be published by Yale University Press.
Sarah Rabinowitz was born in Germany and reared in Palestine, where she met Isidor Korein, a Hungarian engineer who arrived there after World War I.
With the advent of World War II, refrigerator production virtually ended as industry retooled for military needs.
While living in Italy during World War II, Miss Nijinsky was briefly imprisoned by the Nazis, who accused her of spying.
While living in Italy during World War II, Miss Nijinsky was briefly imprisoned by the Nazis, who accused her of spying.
Miss Dalrymple's stature in the New York theater world was enhanced by her uncanny ability to lure just the right actor for a particular role at a price that City Center, with its limited budget, could afford.
In 1939 she was its first publicity volunteer, and during World War II, she trained speakers who sold war bonds during the time of the Stage Door Canteen.
In 1958 the State Department called on her again, this time to arrange for the performances sent by the United States to the Brussels World's Fair, including those by Harry Belafonte, William Warfield, Jose Iturbi and the Juilliard String Quartet.
Her father was Italian and, because he was drafted by the Italian army in World War I, Edwige spent much of her childhood in Italy.
During Germany's occupation of France in World War II, Ms. Feuillere worked in the theater (she helped discover Gerard Philipe in Jean Giraudoux's ''Sodome et Gomorrhe'') and in films (notably in Jacques de Baroncelli's 1941 ''Duchesse de Langeais'').
The company toured Europe and was awarded the grand prize at the International Exhibition, the 1937 Paris World's Fair.
When ''Chopin Concerto'' was performed by the Polish Ballet at the 1939 World's Fair New York, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, wrote that Ms. Youshkevitch, her partner Zbigniew Kilinski and the other soloist, Olga Slawska, ''filled the principal roles with authority.

        Rumer Godden, the prolific British author of ''Black Narcissus'' and  ''The River,'' and a writer of children's books that are enjoyed throughout the world, died on Sunday at her home in Dumfriesshire, Scotland.
As she later recalled, ''Part of the bliss of our childhood was that, being most of the year without the normal preoccupations of most girls of our ages, there was all the time in the world to think, avenues of time.
Ms. Walsh, who was known as Meg, was vice president and treasurer of Lucent, one of the world's biggest makers of advanced communications equipment.
She toured nationally in Robert Patrick's ''Kennedy's Children,'' Neil Simon's ''God's Favorite'' and with Ben Bagley's revue, ''The Decline and Fall of the Entire World as Seen Through the Eyes of Cole Porter.
Her film credits include ''It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World''; ''Le Sauvage'' with Catherine Denueve and Yves Montand; ''The Paper,'' ''The Wild Party,'' ''Running on Empty,'' and most recently, ''One True Thing.
Let another world be born.
After World War II, she contributed scripts for such radio soaps as ''Stella Dallas,'' ''Our Gal Sunday'' and ''Backstage Wife.
In 1929 the real world intruded savagely on the Murphys' idyll when their youngest son, Patrick, was found to have tuberculosis.
Dr. Nyswander (pronounced nice-wonder) was a founder of the School of Public Health at the University of California at Berkeley after World War II.
''They are my response to the way everything is mixed up together in this world -- people and microbes and elephants and cassowary birds.
After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor during World War II, Mrs. Fujikawa's family was interned in Arkansas in a relocation camp.
It was soon after World War II that Miss Bishop, a trained chemist who had worked in a dermatologist's laboratory, developed a nondrying, nonirritating, long-wearing lipstick.
In World War II, as senior organic chemist with what is now Exxon, she discovered the cause of deposits affecting superchargers of aircraft engines.

        Janet Brewster Murrow, a radio broadcaster and relief worker during World War II in London, where her husband, Edward R. Murrow, was CBS's star war correspondent, died on Friday at the North Hill retirement community in Needham, Mass., where she lived.
Beginning in 1937, and through World War II, they lived in London, and Mr. Murrow  went on to direct CBS's World War II reporting team and to win fame for his reporting about the war.
Beginning in 1937, and through World War II, they lived in London, and Mr. Murrow  went on to direct CBS's World War II reporting team and to win fame for his reporting about the war.
