Adrian Oktenberg wrote in The Women's Review of Books that the illness had made Ms. Dent ''a prophet of extremity, crying in the wilderness of a new world.
''Let the world find someone else to talk about,'' she said in an interview with Texas Monthly in 2001.
Depicting an informal reunion of a group of Mount Holyoke graduates that dissolves into scenes of their college days, it was described as ''funny, ironic and affectionate'' by Edith Oliver in The New Yorker, who added, ''Under the laughter there is  a feeling of bewilderment and disappointment over the world outside college, which promised so much, and with their own dreams, which seem to have stalled.
No dramatic soprano truly approached her stature thereafter, and in the roles of Isolde, Brünnhilde and Sieglinde, she began her stately 30-year procession around the opera houses of the world.
When her father went to Sing Sing for arson (he was exonerated later), 9-year-old Shirley retreated into a fantasy world that, Ms. Winters wrote, ''has been a powerful tool in my acting'' but ''used to play hell with my real life.
An early marriage during World War II to an Army Air Force captain, Paul Mayer, lasted until the war ended.
If, during her last years, Ms. Winters fit more comfortably into a muumuu than a sheath, she never lost her sense of laughing delight in what the world had given a poor girl from Brooklyn.
Although her career spanned several decades and included a stint on the soap opera ''Another World,'' Ms. Meacham is probably best known for her work in the plays of Tennessee Williams, who once praised her in an article for The New York Times, saying, ''There's nothing she won't say or do onstage without any sign of embarrassment.
Her New York stage debut came in the short-lived 1952 World War II comedy ''The Long Watch,'' for which she won a Clarence Derwent Award, a prize for newcomers to New York.
Ms. Meacham made her film debut in ''Lilith'' in 1964 and made many television appearances in the 50's and 60's before joining the cast of ''Another World'' in 1972 as Louise Goddard, an oddball maid.

        Erica Reiner, an internationally renowned scholar of Assyrian, one of the world's oldest written languages, died on Dec. 31 at her home in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago.
It also became a Mecca for scholars from around the world.
She got her first sense of the world beyond rural Alabama when she attended the Lincoln School, a private missionary institution in nearby Marion, where she studied piano and voice and had her first encounters with college-educated teachers, and where she resolved to flee to a world far beyond rural, segregated Alabama.
She got her first sense of the world beyond rural Alabama when she attended the Lincoln School, a private missionary institution in nearby Marion, where she studied piano and voice and had her first encounters with college-educated teachers, and where she resolved to flee to a world far beyond rural, segregated Alabama.
''
        Besides her four children and her sister, Edythe, of Cheyney, Pa., survivors include her brother, Obie Leonard Scott of Greensboro, Ala.
        Mrs. King remained a beloved figure, often compared to Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis as a woman who overcame tragedy, held her family together and became an inspirational presence around the world.
Miss Lewis's dispute with her siblings became well known in the food world, most of whose members supported her and Mr. Peacock, seeing him as an eager student to a master of Southern cooking.
She was reared at a rambling country house, Goodfellows, and spent much of World War II in Moscow, where her father served as ambassador.
At the outbreak of World War II, the China Institute in London offered to repatriate Chinese students living there.
Ms. Bedford's first published work of fiction, ''A Legacy'' (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1956), about aristocratic society in Germany before World War I, was heavily influenced by her own upbringing and gained attention after Evelyn Waugh's laudatory review of it in The Standard.
Throughout her life she lived around the world, including Italy, France, Portugal and the United States, before settling for good in London.
As Ms. Shearer said in later years, ''The Red Shoes'' was very different from the world of ballet that she knew.

        Betty Friedan, the feminist crusader and author whose searing first book, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ignited the contemporary women's movement in 1963 and as a result permanently transformed the social fabric of the United States and countries around the world, died yesterday, her 85th birthday, at her home in Washington.
With its impassioned yet clear-eyed analysis of the issues that affected women's lives in the decades after World War II -- including enforced domesticity, limited career prospects and, as chronicled in later editions, the campaign for legalized abortion -- ''The Feminine Mystique'' is widely regarded as one of the most influential nonfiction books of the 20th century.
''The Feminine Mystique'' made Ms. Friedan world famous.
''Some people think I'm saying, 'Women of the world unite -- you have nothing to lose but your men,' '' she told Life magazine in 1963.

        Betty Friedan, the feminist crusader and author whose searing first book, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ignited the contemporary women's movement in 1963 and as a result permanently transformed the social fabric of the United States and countries around the world, died Saturday, her 85th birthday, at her home in Washington.
With its impassioned yet clear-eyed analysis of the issues that affected women's lives in the decades after World War II -- including enforced domesticity, limited career prospects and, as chronicled in later editions, the campaign for legalized abortion -- ''The Feminine Mystique'' is widely regarded as one of the most influential nonfiction books of the 20th century.
''The Feminine Mystique'' made Ms. Friedan world famous.
''Some people think I'm saying, 'Women of the world unite -- you have nothing to lose but your men,' '' she told Life magazine in 1963.
In the fifteen years after World War II, this mystique of feminine fulfillment became the cherished and self-perpetuating core of contemporary American culture.
They had no thought for the unfeminine problems of the world outside the home; they wanted the men to make the major decisions.
She received two Hugo Awards from the World Science Fiction Society and two Nebula Awards from the Science Fiction Writers of America.
Her productions included the American premieres of Prokofiev's ''War and Peace,'' Schoenberg's ''Moses und Aron,'' Roger Sessions's ''Montezuma,'' Peter Maxwell Davies's ''Taverner'' and Rodion Shchedrin's ''Dead Souls,'' as well as the world premieres of Gunther Schuller's ''Fisherman and His Wife'' and Robert Di Domenica's ''Balcony.
An early marriage ended with the death of her husband during World War II.
James C. Wright, chairman of Bryn Mawr's department of classical and Near Eastern archaeology, said Dr. Mellink became known for her ''integrated and holistic approach to the larger classical world and the ancient Near East, and was able to make connections between cultures that were widely separated, and show they were actually in contact with each other.

        Anna Marly, who wrote the melody to the song that became the anthem of the French Resistance in World War II and whose whistling and singing on the radio were an inspiration to the anti-Nazi underground, died on Feb. 15 in her home in Palmer, Alaska.
Miss Marly, who in her later years used her married name, Smiernow, wrote the melody to ''Chant des Partisans,'' or ''Song of the Partisans,'' which became an unofficial French anthem in the last years of World War II.
There, the teenage Anna took music lessons from Prokofiev, danced in the Ballets Russes and won a Miss Russia contest, after which she went to Algeria to compete for Miss World.
Correction:  March 16, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Anna Marly, who wrote the melody for the anthem of the French Resistance in World War II, misstated the Russian word for partisan, which she used as a rhythmic accent.
When word came that Williams was ready with a new play, ''Orpheus Descending,'' she was told once again that he wanted Magnani to play the heroine, a frustrated Italian-American storekeeper in a small Southern town whose world is torn apart by the arrival of a handsome newcomer.
As a Jewish child growing up during World War II, Madeleine was acutely conscious of the need for self-protection, something she later discussed in interviews.

        Alida Valli, an Italian movie star who was described by both David O. Selznick and Benito Mussolini as the most beautiful woman in the world after Greta Garbo and who appeared in more than 100 films, died on Saturday at her home in Rome.
From writing about how people functioned within cities, she analyzed how cities function within nations, how nations function with one another, how everyone functions in a world of conflicting moral principles and, finally, how economies grow like biological organisms.
At one point she gave concerts on long train trips, and she toured Europe before World War II.

        Kathleen Powers Pflueger, owner of one of the world's great collections of 18th-century porcelain and 16th- and 17-century faience, a form of earthenware, died on March 30 surrounded by her pieces in the Park Avenue apartment that she had designed to house them.
She was drawn into the rarefied world of porcelain by her husband, Edward M. Pflueger, who had begun collecting it in the 1930's.
A turning point in their collaboration came in 1949, when they acquired the Otto Blohm porcelain collection, one of the finest in the world.
Lavishly decorated, ''Memoirs of a Geisha'' evoked the world of Japan in the 1930's and 40's through rice-paper screens, oil lamps and other traditional artifacts.
''
        She longed to return to Britain, but she was trapped in Rhodesia for most of World War II because of wartime restrictions on travel.
) that is full of incestuous liaisons and fraternal intrigue; toss in a bombshell (like murder, suicide or betrayal) that will ricochet dangerously around this little world; and add some allusions to the supernatural to ground these melodramatics in an old-fashioned context of good and evil.
After London, she lived briefly in New York in the 1960's, then abandoned the crush of the literary world for Rome, where she had a rich social life and entertained lavishly.
''A big challenge would be just understanding what goes on in this world of cataloging because it's a really complicated world,'' Allyson Carlyle, an associate professor at the Information School at the University of Washington, said in an interview.
''A big challenge would be just understanding what goes on in this world of cataloging because it's a really complicated world,'' Allyson Carlyle, an associate professor at the Information School at the University of Washington, said in an interview.
Then, from 1946 to 1954, she worked in telephone sales for cargo at Pan American World Airways, with her future husband as her boss.
She then worked at the Office of Price Administration, which was established during World War II to prevent inflation and was led by John Kenneth Galbraith, who later helped Dr. Bell create the committee of female economists.
Sister Rose -- who wore a Star of David fused to the cross on her neck, used words like ''chutzpah,'' and closed her letters with ''shalom'' -- devoted most of her adult life to writing, lecturing and traveling the world in a quest to promote greater understanding in the often-strained relationships between Christians and Jews.
''The death of Sister Rose Thering is an immense loss for the entire Seton Hall family, indeed for all men and women who seek to forge a world of greater understanding,'' said Msgr.
In 1986, she went to Austria to protest the inauguration of President Kurt Waldheim, the former United Nations secretary general, who had served in a Nazi army unit implicated in the deportation of Jews from Greece in World War II.
During World War I, her family moved to the capital, Vilnius, where her father, Leib Kadison, became a founder and the director of the Vilna Troupe.

        Ruth Gay, a writer known for her nonfiction books documenting Jewish life in the Old World and the New, died on Tuesday in the Bronx.
Gay's books include ''Safe Among the Germans: Liberated Jews After World War II'' (Yale University, 2002), which dealt with a little-studied subject: the more than 250,000 Jews who returned to Allied-occupied Germany in the immediate aftermath of World War II.
Gay's books include ''Safe Among the Germans: Liberated Jews After World War II'' (Yale University, 2002), which dealt with a little-studied subject: the more than 250,000 Jews who returned to Allied-occupied Germany in the immediate aftermath of World War II.
''She was an icon for women in a man's world especially when it came to her pinups,'' Mr. Franklin said.
By creating popular and glamorous revues based on African and Caribbean folklore, Miss Dunham acquainted audiences, both on Broadway and around the world, with the historical roots of black dance.
After World War II, her dance company toured constantly, visiting more than 50 countries in 30 years.
Ms. McLaughlin's small but distinguished body of work was highly regarded by academic medievalists around the world.
They energetically transformed the world of design with their interest in using new technologies and materials, like plastic, Ms. Castelli Ferrieri's frequent medium.
For a retrospective at the Museum of Architecture and Design at the Chicago Atheneum in 1997, she wrote, ''I continue on my own way, conscious of the responsibility I take upon myself whenever I add a new presence to an already overcrowded physical world.
As she told The Washington Post in 1988, ''I hardly ever go out into the life-size world.
A newspaperwoman by training, Ms. Jacobs wrote many highly regarded books on dollhouses, among them ''A History of Dolls' Houses: Four Centuries of the Domestic World in Miniature'' (Scribner, 1953); ''Dolls' Houses in America: Historic Preservation in Miniature'' (Scribner, 1974); and, most recently, ''The Small World of Antique Dolls' Houses'' (Lake Isle Press, 2005).
A newspaperwoman by training, Ms. Jacobs wrote many highly regarded books on dollhouses, among them ''A History of Dolls' Houses: Four Centuries of the Domestic World in Miniature'' (Scribner, 1953); ''Dolls' Houses in America: Historic Preservation in Miniature'' (Scribner, 1974); and, most recently, ''The Small World of Antique Dolls' Houses'' (Lake Isle Press, 2005).
It affords control, or at least the illusion of it, in a disorderly world.
Growing up, she did not have a dollhouse, but the girl next door did -- a magnificent one that her father, a soldier in World War I, had brought back from Germany.
At the time, dollhouses were unfashionable things in the world of collectibles.
Ms. Jacobs, who lectured throughout the world on dollhouse history, also wrote several children's books inspired by her work, among them ''The Doll House Mystery'' (Coward-McCann, 1958) and ''The Toy Shop Mystery'' (Coward-McCann, 1960).

        Gloria Jones, whose marriage to the author James Jones placed her at the center of a postwar literary and social world in Paris and the Hamptons and whose own life became the basis of a novel and a movie, died on Friday at her home in Sagaponack, N.Y. She was 78.

        Dorothy Hayden Truscott, for many years the top-ranked woman in bridge and the winner of four world titles and more than two dozen national championships, died on Tuesday in New Russia, N.Y. She was 80.
Mrs. Truscott won four world titles as a player: the Venice Cup in 1974, 1976 and 1978, and the Women's Team Olympiad in 1980.
She won the first of her national titles in 1959, and in 1965 became the second woman to play for the United States in the Bermuda Bowl world team championship.
She won one world silver medal, from the 1965 Bermuda Bowl, and six world bronze medals, from the Open Pairs in 1966 (she is the only woman to win a medal in this event); the Women's Team Olympiads in 1968, 1972 and 1976; and the Women's Pairs in 1962 and 1974.
She won one world silver medal, from the 1965 Bermuda Bowl, and six world bronze medals, from the Open Pairs in 1966 (she is the only woman to win a medal in this event); the Women's Team Olympiads in 1968, 1972 and 1976; and the Women's Pairs in 1962 and 1974.
during World War II.
At the time of the article, she was in New York to hear one of her compositions performed at the World's Fair.

        Joan Guggenheimer, a soft-spoken lawyer who had the ear of the chief executives at two of the world's biggest banks, died Sunday at her home near Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 54.
But her image was tarnished in her later years by revelations that she had lied about the extent of her association with the Nazis during World War II.
A hard-working, self-challenging singer, she performed 74 roles in 53 operas, including Anne Trulove in the world premiere of Stravinsky's ''Rake's Progress'' in Venice in 1951.
But she performed frequently in New York in recital and with orchestras and continued to win devoted admirers around the world.
From Hattiesburg, the waves of the civil rights movement ''swept quietly through the church world into politics,'' the author Taylor Branch wrote in ''Pillar of Fire: America in the King Years, 1963-65'' (Simon & Schuster, 1998).

        Marie Tharp, an oceanographic cartographer whose work in the 1950's, 60's and 70's helped throw into relief -- literally -- the largely uncharted landscape of the world's ocean floor, died on Wednesday in Nyack, N.Y. She was 86 and a resident of South Nyack.
With her colleague Bruce C. Heezen (pronounced HAY-zen), Ms. Tharp compiled the first comprehensive map of the entire ocean bottom, illuminating a hidden world of rifts and valleys, volcanic ranges stretching for thousands of miles and mountain peaks taller than Everest.
She wondered whether the depression was evidence of a continuous rift -- a crack in the world -- down the middle of the ridge.
''It was only in the early 60's that the marine scientists around the world started putting the pieces of the puzzle together and understanding that these huge volcanic mountain chains were actually where seafloor spreading was taking place,'' Michael Purdy, the director of the Lamont-Doherty observatory, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
But she was especially known for her annual summer exhibitions, often titled ''The Non-Objective World,'' which helped reintroduce the work of the Russian avant-garde and of de Stijl and Bauhaus artists to the London art world and beyond; they often contained works rarely seen elsewhere.
But she was especially known for her annual summer exhibitions, often titled ''The Non-Objective World,'' which helped reintroduce the work of the Russian avant-garde and of de Stijl and Bauhaus artists to the London art world and beyond; they often contained works rarely seen elsewhere.
''She was the first woman ever to dominate and be the best in the world at a sport where men and women compete equally, and the men did not like that.
She was once described in The Los Angeles Times as ''the journalist to whom virtually no world figure would say no.
''
        But it was her interviews that made her famous and her books staples on college campuses around the world.
Ms. Stapleton, who died on March 13 at the age of 80, made her Broadway debut in 1946 in ''The Playboy of the Western World'' and went on to win Tony Awards for her performances in ''The Rose Tattoo'' and ''The Gingerbread Lady,'' and an Oscar as best supporting actress for her work in the film ''Reds.
The Lawfords strengthened John F. Kennedy's ties to the show business world of Hollywood and Las Vegas through Mr. Lawford's association with ''The Rat Pack'' of Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop and Shirley MacLaine.
After his assassination in 1968, Mrs. Lawford assembled a privately printed book of reminiscences about him, as John had done before about the oldest brother, Joe, who died in World War II.
His basic shyness to the outside world gave way to fun, humor and wit whenever he was with the family.
The Lawfords strengthened John Kennedy's ties to the show business world of Hollywood and Las Vegas through Mr. Lawford's association with the ''Rat Pack'' of Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop and Shirley MacLaine.
After his assassination in 1968, Mrs. Lawford assembled a privately printed book of reminiscences about him, as John had done for their oldest brother, Joe, who died in World War II.
His basic shyness to the outside world gave way to fun, humor and wit whenever he was with the family.
After working for the Red Cross in World War II, she applied for a job in 1944 designing shoes for another shoe manufacturer.
''Hélène was a very gutsy young woman,'' Henry Hyde, the chief of American intelligence in France during World War II, said in an interview in ''Women in the Resistance'' by Margaret L. Rossiter (Praeger, 1985).
Still, the opera world took notice.

        Iva Toguri D'Aquino, the Japanese-American convicted of treason in 1949 for broadcasting propaganda from Japan to United States servicemen in World War II as the seductive but sinister Tokyo Rose, died Tuesday in Chicago.
''
        Up to the end of World War II, there had been only about 30 treason cases in United States history.
But that appearance by the United States on the world rowing scene provided impetus for the inclusion of women's rowing in the Olympics.
Ernestine Bayer captured many medals in master's races, and at 92 she won two golds and a silver, competing in doubles and eight-oared events, in the 60-and-over category at the masters world championships in Montreal.
She was also an energetic mediator in the often disorganized world of Duncan teachers and students, bringing factions together in the Duncan Dance Guild, which she organized in the 1950's.
''
        After training with Anna Duncan, Ms. Levien performed throughout the world in the 1930's and 40's with her company and that of Irma Duncan, another of Isadora Duncan's daughters.
Tour and World Golf halls of fame and was voted The Associated Press female athlete of the year in 1938, 1943 and 1955.
She was sidelined for 18 months, then won a couple of tournaments before becoming a Marine officer in World War II, working stateside in recruitment and public relations posts.
''Ever since I was 12 years old I've been studying for a career in theater,'' Miss Bigley wrote in a first-person article for The World Telegram in 1952, shortly before the end of her run in ''Guys and Dolls.
In the 1980's it was often rumored that she belonged to the gorilla-masked Guerrilla Girls, feminist watchdogs of the art world.
The High Lama is looking for a successor, Sondra is looking for love, and the Colman character must choose whether to stay or return to the war-torn world beyond the mountains.
One of Ms. Cabot's first assignments for Wright was the food pavilion at the New York World's Fair of 1939, which received favorable mention from critics.
But her world was upended when Rwanda's Hutu massacred another of the country's ethnic groups, the Tutsi, and killings were committed on her property, eight of them in her flower garden.
A bittersweet sequel of sorts to ''On the Town,'' the plot of ''It's Always Fair Weather'' revolved around the reunion a decade after World War II of three former G.I.
There, she was enveloped in a heady world of beer, laughter and cigar smoke.
In the 1960s she again began setting her books in the Netherlands, writing ''The Winged Watchman,'' about boys who helped the Dutch resistance during World War II, and ''The Borrowed House'' (1975), about a Jewish child hiding from the Nazis in Amsterdam.
''
        The charming havoc of ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' found a wide audience just after World War II.
An advocate of ''bottom-up'' aid to farmers and villagers in the third world, Mrs. Morgenthau was the Adlai Stevenson Professor Emeritus of International Politics at Brandeis, where she taught from 1963 to 2003.
''She combined academic expertise with a practitioner's reality and, in the process, became one of the acknowledged experts in the world on development issues,'' said Stuart E. Eizenstat, a senior official in the Carter and Clinton administrations.
Correction:  November 14, 2006, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday about Ruth S. Morgenthau, a scholar of international politics and a presidential adviser on aid to third world countries, misstated the date of her death.

        Anne Rogers Clark, a commanding figure in the world of show dogs who won renown at the Westminster Dog Show as a handler, a judge and a breeder, died Wednesday in Wilmington, Del., at the home of a friend.
She did hope to leave a legacy in the world of registered purebreds.
''
        ''Neither Black Nor White'' won a Sidney Hillman Award as the best book of 1957 on world peace, race relations or civil liberties.
In a letter to 40 third world ambassadors in October 1981, for example, she accused them of spreading ''base lies'' and making ''malicious attacks upon the good name of the United States.
During and just after World War II, she appeared with Jack Benny and others on U.S.O.
