Her peripatetic master classes around the world ended in 1984, but she continued to teach at home until several years ago.
"
        Serious as her approach may have been, she had a wry outlook on the professional world of music.
Mrs. Phillips worked with a number of social and philanthropic organizations around the world as the wife of a career American diplomat, Christopher H. Phillips.
In 1962, she became the designer for Jane & Jane, a company of young Londoners who, along with designers like Mary Quant, helped to shake up the staid British fashion world.
Joseph Goble of the Royal Navy, was killed in World War II.
Her most recent book, "Thieves' World: The Threat of the New Global Network of Organized Crime" (1994, Simon & Schuster), was praised by Stephen Handelman, of the Harriman Institute of Advanced Soviet Studies at Columbia University, as making "a significant contribution to post-cold-war debate" by affirming "that the growing interdependence among nation-states and financial institutions has made it easier for crime syndicates to cooperate across national boundaries.

        Sylvia Laibman Horwitz, a world traveler, an author and a founder of two schools, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
She also wrote the books "Toulouse-Lautrec: His World" (Harper, 1973) and "Francisco Goya: Painter of Kings and Demons" (Harper, 1974).
Ms. Rome argued that issues of cosmetic surgery, eating disorders, body image and sexually transmitted diseases as they affected women belonged in the social- and economic-policy arena as much as in the medical world.
Mrs. Harris began recording for RCA Victor soon after her marriage, and immediately caught the attention of the record world with the first recording of the difficult Busoni arrangement of the Bach Chaconne.
With the outbreak of World War I, the Sartons emigrated to England and, in 1916, to the United States, where her name was Anglicized to Eleanor May Sarton.
Her second novel, "The Bridge of Years," published in 1946, was seemingly drawn from life, dealing with the effect of two world wars on a Belgian family.
" Quietly she waited for the moment to come "when the world falls away, and the self emerges again from the deep unconscious, bringing back all I have recently experienced to be explored and slowly understood, when I can converse again with my own hidden powers, and so grow, and so be renewed, till death do us part.
Harvard University, conferring an honorary doctorate on Dr. Scharrer in 1982, said her "research journeys into the world of insects have profoundly affected the study of human physiology.
from 1936 to 1960, World War II provided her with her major platform.
Her lawyer said the enterprise was organized by the love of her life, a shadowy American intelligence agent whose death in World War II led Miss Keliher to vow to remain unmarried.
She was a regular on the soap operas "As the World Turns" and "Dark Shadows.
She was a trustee and member of the executive committee of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations and was active in groups like the World Zionist Organization and the American Zionist Movement.
She was a delegate to the World Zionist Congress in 1987 and 1992 and was chairwoman of several Congress committees.

        Oveta Culp Hobby, the creator of the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps in World War II, the first Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare and a longtime executive at the recently closed Houston Post, died yesterday at her home in Houston.
By the end of World War II, about 100,000 women had joined the WAC.
After her husband's death, the Princess, who lived in a small house in Marbella (where a wealthy Hohenlohe cousin owns the Marbella Club) spent much of her time visiting rich friends around the world.
Her coming of age as a designer mirrored the development of American sportswear, which was defining itself and growing in importance as the mass-market technology that followed World War II left its mark on fashion.
In time, her skill would lead to four world saddle bronc championships and make her a star attraction on rodeo tours in the United States, Australia and Europe.
She kept the route for three winters and two summers and had her heart set on a career as a forest ranger until the return of servicemen from World War I closed off such employment opportunities for women.
Before World War II, she lived in Paris with her first husband, Benno Slesin, the general manager for Europe for Warner Brothers.
In the arcane world of children's literature in which 8-to-12-year-olds are termed middle-aged and a 17-year-old is deemed to have one teen-age foot in the grave, the Hadley Irwin books were aimed at audiences aged 12 to 16, known as young adults.
Miss Brooks, who was engaged at one time to Cary Grant, married Torbert H. Macdonald, a wealthy former college football star and hero of World War II, in 1945.
On television she appeared in the soap operas "Another World" and "Love of Life" and in the series "Kojak," "Barney Miller," "Cannon" and "Law and Order.
Miss Chang, a native of Shanghai, was at once a beloved figure who had a huge devoted following in Taiwan, Hong Kong and in other Chinese communities around the world and a lionized author whose works, particularly her early short stories, were hailed as classics by literary critics.
According to her friends, Miss Chang's insights into human emotions, especially those of women in the throes of thwarted romance, were grounded in her experiences with a cruel father who abandoned her mother and her first husband, Hu Lan Cheng, a Chinese writer who collaborated with the Japanese in World War II and later betrayed Miss Chang with another woman.
Although written shortly after the Depression, both books became primers for thousands of urbanites who dropped out of the corporate world in the early 1970's and headed for the quiet countryside.
"She gave in and had a telephone installed about 10 years ago so she could keep in touch with all her friends around the world," said Mr. Coleman, who with his wife, Barbara Damrosch, is host of a cable television series called "Natural Gardening.
Nearing, a professor of economics, left the academic world and moved far away from New York City and the Depression to the wilderness of Vermont, where they built their first farm.
She was 85 and lived in Westport, Conn.
        Mrs. Bradley, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., served on the board of directors of the Westport Country Playhouse and fought to save the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn.
        Mrs. Bradley was also active in radio and television as a weekly panelist on "What in the World," a quiz show, for WTIC-TV in Hartford and as a writer and producer of her own television interview show for WICC-TV in Bridgeport.
As a reporter for Chinese newspapers during World War II, Ms. Hsu covered the Chinese resistance against the Japanese and her articles were widely read in the Far East.
After graduating from the University of Illinois, she was in the first group of Waves commissioned by the Navy during World War II.
Although her career had faded considerably by the 1940's, Miss Dickson re-emerged as a founder of the London Stage Door Canteen, which entertained thousands of Allied troops during World War II.
The grants enabled multidisciplinary groups of scientists from around the world to meet and discuss their work.
In 1985 she won an Obie for her World War II uniforms for Charles Fuller's drama "A Soldier's Play.
"As Carmen," he continued, "she is so good that the world might want her exclusively for this role.
During World War II, she joined the Women's Royal Naval Service and in 1944 she received the British Empire Medal for distinguished service.
"
        Their big hits during World War II were "Don't Sit Under the Apple Tree" and "Rum and Coca-Cola.
She exhibited extensively in galleries in the United States and Europe and is represented in museums around the world.
She exhibited extensively in galleries in the United States and Europe and is represented in museums around the world.

        Simone Gallimard, a power in the French book-publishing world, died Monday in a clinic in Neuilly, a suburb of Paris.
Lillian Fuchs Stein was "one of the best string players in America," Harold C. Schonberg wrote in The New York Times in 1962, and she went on to become one of the most respected string teachers in the world.
For more than 35 years, her galleries were gathering places for collectors and museum curators from around the world.
During World War II, she was on the faculty of Johns Hopkins University before entering psychoanalytical practice in Baltimore and New Haven.

        Edna Deane, the world champion ballroom dancer famous for being the girl "who's danced with the Prince of Wales," died on Wednesday at her home in Rottingdean, on the English Channel, The Times of London reported today.
"
        In 1933, Miss Deane and her partner Timothy Palmer won the British and world  ballroom championships.
She worked with the American Red Cross during World War II.
In New York, she designed for stage productions including "South Pacific," "Affairs of State," "King Lear" (with Louis Calhern), "Too Late the Phalarope," "Major Barbara," "Winesburg, Ohio" and "The World of Suzie Wong.
"
        Summing up her work, Ms. Jeakins once said: "In the middle of the night, I can put my world down to two words: 'Make beauty.
She was 82, and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
        As a pioneering woman in the male-dominated world of rhythm-and-blues, Mrs. Greenberg was, by her own later account, a triple anomaly: "a white woman who was in a black business and who couldn't carry a tune.
Mrs. Chamberlain also organized and directed the Salvation Army's service program during World War II.
"I like living here better than anyplace else in the world, but the first  thing I notice when I leave to spend some time in Europe is the conversation, the variety, the nonphilistine approach.
"
        A diplomat's daughter who had lived in a dozen countries before going to Radcliffe in 1937 to study Chinese history and French literature, Mrs. Bruce moved to London during World War II to work in the London office of the O.S.S.,  the predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency.
She organized several companies and continued to be a guest teacher at studios around the world until shortly before her death.
The centeris one of the world's largest repositories of materials for studying black history and culture, its current director, Dr. Thomas C. Battle,  said yesterday.
When her husband was mobilized in Paris at the outbreak of World War II, she ran the gallery for some months.
Before her appointment, Dame Nita, who was a nurse and public health expert, served as the Barbados representative at the United Nations and was previously president of the World Y.W.C.A.
as well as the World Council of Churches.
She helped arrange product licensing to benefit the World Wildlife Fund and other organizations.
Her biographies included "George Mason: Constitutionalist" (1938), "Captains From Devon: The Great Elizabethan Seafarers Who Won the World for England" and "Colonel Parke of Virginia: The Greatest Hector in Town" (1990).
Mrs. Kuhn's many writings included a volume of memoirs, "Assigned to Adventure" (1938), which Augusta Tucker, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called "the story of an unafraid woman who has seen a lot of the world as a newspaper reporter" and added that it "has pace, it has interest, it has color, and the woman who wrote it has sense: a quality not consistently present  in the kiss-and-tell books of some of the male correspondents.".
After earning degrees at Mount Holyoke and Bryn Mawr colleges, she joined the State Department during World War II and went on to work at the United States Embassy in London.
Her eldest son, Joseph Jr., a Navy pilot, was killed when his plane exploded over the English Channel on a mission in World War II.
"I'm one of the most fortunate people in the world," she told an interviewer.
Her eldest son, Joseph Jr., a Navy pilot, was killed when his plane exploded over the English Channel on a mission in World War II.
"I'm one of the most fortunate people in the world," she told an interviewer.
She also wrote, with Lex Creamer Jr., the travel book "Another World: Central America" (1970).
After World War II she was reunited with her father and worked with him at New York University, the Polytechnic Institute in Brooklyn and the New York Medical College until his death in 1956.
After World War II, she taught dance at orphanages for children whose parents had been killed by the Nazis and directed her own ballet school in Paris.
During World War II the Hayters lived in New York, where Mr. Hayter published prints by Abstract Expressionists.
As the leader of the Interreligious Task Force, which was established in 1972 to press the Soviet Union to let Jews emigrate without restrictions, Sister Ann picketed Soviet embassies throughout the world and petitioned leaders in Washington and at the United Nations in New York.
Trained as a nurse, she counseled veterans returning from World War II who had suffered battle trauma.
She was also a trustee of the Congressionally chartered National Tropical Botanical Garden, the Fairchild Tropical Garden in Miami, the American Horticultural Society, the World Wildlife Fund and the Conservation Foundation.
Graham Greene, with whom Ms. Highsmith frequently corresponded, called her a "writer who has created a world of her own -- a world claustrophobic and irrational which we enter each time with a sense of personal danger.
Graham Greene, with whom Ms. Highsmith frequently corresponded, called her a "writer who has created a world of her own -- a world claustrophobic and irrational which we enter each time with a sense of personal danger.
"
        Julian Symons, the dean of British crime writing, who first promoted her work, wrote that "one closes most of her books -- and her equally powerful and chilling short stories -- with a feeling that the world is more dangerous than one had imagined.
Graham Greene, with whom Ms. Highsmith frequently corresponded, called her a "writer who has created a world of her own -- a world claustrophobic and irrational which we enter each time with a sense of personal danger.
Graham Greene, with whom Ms. Highsmith frequently corresponded, called her a "writer who has created a world of her own -- a world claustrophobic and irrational which we enter each time with a sense of personal danger.
"
        Julian Symons, the dean of British crime writing, who first promoted her work, wrote that "one closes most of her books -- and her equally powerful and chilling short stories -- with a feeling that the world is more dangerous than one had imagined.
After study at Princeton on the classical world of early Christendom and Byzantium, she returned to Greece with an appointment as a fellow of the American School.
They were married in 1941 and together they traveled as cultural ambassadors for the State Department, collecting music from around the world.
Her book "Black Women, Feminism and Black Liberation" (Third World Press, 1985) described the conflict that black women face over the issues of feminism and racism.
In 1972, she was a member of the American team that finished third in the World Team Olympiad.
Her second husband, Charles Solomon, a former president of the American Contract Bridge League and the World Bridge Federation, died in 1975.

        Selena, the 23-year-old reigning queen of the Tejano music world, was shot and killed today at a Corpus Christi motel.
With her pouting smile, suggestive clothing and theatrical command of a microphone, Selena was often described as the Madonna of the Mexican-American world and was an idol and heartthrob on both sides of the border.
The recent Tejano Music Awards in San Antonio, which has become a sort of Nashville of the Tejano world, was attended by 45,000 fans.
" Television viewers saw her in "As the World Turns," "Cagney and Lacey," "Guiding Light" and "Law and Order.
"
        Mrs. Plimpton, a graduate of Smith College, also served on the boards of Planned Parenthood, the Institute for World Affairs and the Public Education Association.
"
        Mrs. Plimpton, a graduate of Smith College, was also on the boards of Planned Parenthood, the Institute for World Affairs and the Public Education Association.
She was a vice president and director and wrote editorials while her husband was overseas during World War II.
during World War II and also performed in India and the Middle East.
In 1931, her office provided Easter dresses to wives of disabled World War I veterans.
In the 1930's and 40's she wrote for various magazines and for the North American Newspaper Alliance, and served as a naval correspondent in World War II.
She was the author or co-author of several books, including "My Boy Franklin," about Franklin D. Roosevelt, written with Gabrielle Forbush, and "Where Away," written with George Sessions Perry, the story of the World War II cruiser Marblehead.
She was the editor of "The Aspirin Age, 1919-41," a best-selling collection of articles -- by John Lardner, Howard Fast and others -- about life in the United States between the World Wars.
She also served on the boards of several civic and philanthropic organizations, including the World Federation for Mental Health and the Menninger Foundation.
In 1941 they left Hungary for Sweden, and Miss Fischer suspended her performing career during World War II.
"
        Miss Bird was best known, however, as an imaginative, practical teacher of dance who believed strongly that dancers must not only be trained in their craft but must also be aware of and a part of the world around them.
