
        Dr. Harriet B. Braiker, a clinical psychologist and self-help author whose books touched on identity, resolving stress and the grief occasioned by the World Trade Center attacks, died on Jan. 10 at Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. She was 55.
The 1940 and 1944 Olympics were canceled because of World War II.
Blankers-Koen held or shared six world records -- in the 100-meter dash, 80-meter hurdles, high jump, long jump, 4x100 relay and 4x400 relay -- but she was 30 years old.
''As the body of her work has enlarged, one comes to understand it not just as a series of extraordinary insights into suffering and thought, but as a mighty exploration of human consciousness and its context in the natural world,'' the American Academy of Arts and Letters citation read when she was made an honorary foreign member in 1986.
She developed her story writing while working for the BBC and the Information Ministry during and just after World War II.
Elizabeth Fisher, born in Allegheny County, Pa., was a Ziegfeld girl and served overseas with the United Service Organizations in World War II, helping entertain the troops, visiting the wounded in field hospitals and volunteering for the Veterans Bedside Network.
The turning point, she said, was in 1947 when Harold Clurman directed her in ''The Whole World Over.
When she boarded the S.S. Manhattan in New York Harbor on July 15, 1936, with some 330 fellow Olympians bound for the Berlin Olympics, Eleanor Holm Jarrett, as she was then known, stood at the pinnacle of the swimming world.
She had captured the 100-meter backstroke at the 1932 Los Angeles Games and had set world records in that event and the 200-meter backstroke.
Co-featured with Johnny Weismuller and then Buster Crabbe, Holm did 39 shows a week at Rose's Aquacade in the New York World's Fair of 1939-1940.
After serving in the Marine Corps Women's Reserve in World War II, she earned a master's degree in journalism from Ohio State.
She goes into this more in her book, ''Closing the Leadership Gap: Why Women Can and Must Help Run the World,'' due out next month from Viking Press.
Ms. Diaz's organization, a volunteer group that works to provide a voice for women and children in war zones, is a nongovernmental group that advocates for refugees before the United Nations and around the world.
Her calling gradually shifted from the newsroom to the outside world.
She recorded an album for the Beatles' Apple label in 1970 with a starry group of musicians from the rock world that included George Harrison, Eric Clapton and Billy Preston.

        Amy M. Spindler, the former fashion critic of The New York Times and style editor of its magazine, whose knowledge and fierce opinions held the world's leading designers to task and helped to raise the standard of fashion writing, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
In a front-page article in The Times, Ms. Spindler wrote: ''What Mr. Sorrenti's death has revealed is that fashion photography is indeed a mirror of the tight-knit world that produces the photographs.
Set at the zenith of Britain's Indian Empire and covering a period from roughly 1885 to 1920, it led to a television mini-series in 1984, sold millions of copies around the world and remains in print, as do a dozen of her other books.
''Far Pavilions,'' nearly 1,000 pages long, was written over about 16 years and relived a world of the viceroys and maharajahs that its author knew well.
Yet she had a robust sense of humor about the world of dance, and she was the rare dancer who stood up to the strong-willed Graham with quiet determination.
That work was best explained, she felt, by T. S. Eliot's observation in ''Four Quartets'' that dance was ''at the still point of the turning world.
She also danced principal roles in ''Letter to the World,'' ''Deaths and Entrances,'' ''Every Soul Is a Circus'' and ''Primitive Mysteries.

        Frances Partridge, the last of the spectacularly talented and irreverent group of British writers and artists who coalesced as the Bloomsbury group in the years before World War I, died in London on Feb. 5.
A World War I hero and former Oxford rower, he was an employee of Hogarth Press, owned by Leonard and Virginia Woolf.
In 1978, at 78, she published ''A Pacifist's War,'' a memoir of the World War II years, following it three years later with ''Love in Bloomsbury: Memories,'' which led Anatole Broyard, writing in The New York Times, to conclude that the denizens of Bloomsbury may have been ''too charming for their own good.
Ms. Wood was born into a family of means, a world she eventually rejected to help the downtrodden.
Famous for her beauty as much as her temperament, Ms. Tcherina dazzled audiences around the world, especially in films like ''The Red Shoes.
Vogue reported that ''at 16 or so, black-eyed, confident and competent beyond her years,'' she married Fritz Mannheimer, a Dutch banker and, like Mr. Engelhard, thought to be one of the world's richest men.
This led her to interview circus clowns and professional comedians, including Sid Caesar, Jackie Mason and Tommy Smothers, and write, with her husband, ''Pretend the World Is Funny and Forever: A Psychological Analysis of Clowns, Comedians and Actors'' (Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1981).
Drawn to the city from a dairy farm in tiny Jefferson, N.Y., Mrs. Scardino played with the Joe Venuti Band and at the Stork Club during World War II.
In her 15 years as owner, a franchise that had thrived in the 1970's as the Big Red Machine had seven managers but only one pennant-winner, the World Series champions of 1990.
In yet another incident, Lou Piniella, who had taken the Reds to the World Series championship in his first year as manager, rejected a two-year contract extension after the 1992 season.
The association, founded in 1911, collects and coordinates reports -- hundreds of thousands a year -- sent in by observers, many of them amateurs, from around the world.
The Mentzers were hard-working immigrants and Esther, destined to become known to the world by the diminutive of Estée, recalled well the Christmastime wrapping of gifts of hammers and nails, her father's gifts to his customers.
''Gorillas in the Mist: The Story of Dian Fossey'' (1988), ''Emma'' (1996) and ''Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World'' (2003), she was associate producer of ''A Dry White Season'' (1989) and producer of ''Wuthering Heights'' (1992).
In a statement released by Ms. Richman's family, Mr. Cronkite said that she ''was probably more important than any other individual in shaping the presentation of a new science that gripped the world's imagination.
During World War II, they moved to Washington and became consultants to the War Labor Board.
Paintings from their personal collection toured the world via the Art in the U.S Embassies Program.
''There's a lot written about the leaders but not much about the contributions of the Mrs. Hudsons of the world.
She appeared glamorously in westerns, on Broadway and the London stage and entertained wounded soldiers in World War II.
It was advertised as the largest apartment house in the world when it was completed in 1908 and was designated as a New York City landmark in 1966.
When Mrs. Seril and her husband, Nathan, became sole owners of the building in 1974, two-thirds of its 225 apartments were covered under the city's rent control law, which originated as a federal plan in World War II to prevent war profiteering.

        Karol Kennedy Kucher, who teamed up with her brother, Peter Kennedy, to win the gold medal in pairs at the 1950 world figure-skating championships and a silver medal at the 1952 Winter Olympics, died on Friday at a hospital in Seattle.
Karol and Peter Kennedy, known as the Kennedy Kids, were the dominant American pair skaters in the years after World War II, winning five consecutive United States championships, from 1948 to 1952.
The Kennedys became the first American pair to win a world championship when they captured the gold medal at Wembley Stadium in London in 1950.
Tai Babilonia and Randy Gardner are the only other American pair skaters to have won a world championship, at Vienna in 1979.
A week later, the Kennedys were second to the Falks again, this time at the world championships in Paris.
Works like "Man Kicking World" (2002), in which a seated man pushes an enormous globe with his foot, imply broad political themes.
She also served as a guest teacher around the world.
''She was determined to raise Turkish opera among the leading opera houses in the world,'' Zeliha Berksoy said in a telephone interview.
Her greatest influence came through her writings, especially her 1969 best-seller, ''On Death and Dying,'' which remains in print around the world.
When World War II ended, she hitchhiked through nine war-shattered countries, helping open first-aid posts.
By then, she was receiving requests from around the world to give seminars on death and dying, and she began to speak at workshops for the dying about what she called ''life after life,'' a happy condition in which physical pain and mental anguish are absent.
Mistakes were not the end of the world, just part of the game.
After World War II broke out, she signed up for intelligence work with the Office of Strategic Services, hoping to become a spy, but was sent off as a file clerk to Ceylon.
''I still feel that French cooking is the most important in the world, one of the few that has rules.

        Elly Annie Schneider, who was known for many years in the circus world and on the big screen as Tiny Earles, then Tiny Doll, and who played one of the Munchkins in ''The Wizard of Oz,'' died here on Sept. 6.
''
        Ms. Armstead and Ms. Wash met in San Francisco in the mid-70's when they both joined a gospel group called Now (News of the World).
After her first husband died during World War II, she decided to switch careers and earned a medical degree at the Royal Free Hospital.
Ms. Radi was especially trenchant in describing the growing divide between the West and the Arab world, one to which she was particularly attuned, given her ease at working in both cultures.
) Blue Sox in the All-American Girls Baseball League, created the previous season by the Chicago Cubs' owner, Philip K. Wrigley, to provide entertainment if major league baseball was curtailed by World War II.
Though she continued to write almost daily, the demands of motherhood, and later of an academic career, plus her distaste for the gamesmanship of the publishing world, caused her to send out little work for the next half-century.
The poet Galway Kinnell told The New Yorker, ''She has arrived in our world like a comet.

        Margaret Kelly, a proper Irishwoman better known as Miss Bluebell who founded the Bluebell Girls, the long-stemmed, high-kicking, slightly clad troupe considered the most glamorous chorus line in Paris and perhaps the world, died in her sleep on Sept. 11 at her home in Paris, her son Patrick Leibovici said.
She was abandoned as an infant; grew up poor; danced her way across the cabaret stages of Europe as a teenager; worked with Maurice Chevalier, Josephine Baker and Edith Piaf; was interned during World War II; saved her husband from the Nazis; raised four children; could still dance the cancan in her 60's; smoked a pack of cigarettes every day of her adult life; and was awarded the French Legion of Honor and the Order of the British Empire.
Mrs. Meyerhoff first entered the art world after her father, Harry A. Bernstein, died in 1958.
For nearly 40 years the Terry Dintenfass gallery swam mostly against the tide of the rest of the art world.
In 1938 she married a surgeon, Arthur Dintenfass, and had three children; after World War II they settled in Atlantic City, where she ran her husband's medical office for several years.
Ms. Rudge is the organizer behind the Splendor of Florence, a cultural festival that is being staged throughout Lower Manhattan through Sunday, with tastings of Tuscan food, concerts and Florentine artisan craft shops in the glass-domed Winter Garden of the World Financial Center, and the Medici exhibition on Wall Street.
Ms. Rudge is on her cellphone, trying to find black cabbage for Tuscan chefs who consider it an absolute must for a thick peasant soup to be served in the Grill Room at the World Financial Center.
In 2002, Time magazine included Nushu in the 50 percent of the world's 6,000 languages that might be extinct by 2050.
A script specific to one sex is rare among the world's languages, and popular writers have called Nushu ''the witch's script'' and the ''first language of women's liberation.

        Lynn Manulis, a retailer of luxury fashion who dressed a generation of the world's most socially prominent women in classic style while attiring their daughters in the work of bold young designers whose reputations she helped make, died on Sunday in Lantana, Fla.
        She was 85.
At the United Nations Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing in 1995, she was chairwoman of the Muslim caucus.
She was a co-author of ''The Arab World Notebook,'' a secondary school textbook; for eight years she waged a campaign, which was successful, to make Arabic part of the language offerings in several high schools in Northern Virginia.
''The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II'' was published by Basic Books in 1997, the 60th anniversary of the massacre.
The book documented the events in Nanking (now Nanjing) during the second Sino-Japanese War, in the years leading up to World War II.
At the time of her death, she was researching a book on American soldiers who served in tank units on the Bataan peninsula before World War II, many of whom were captured and imprisoned by the Japanese.
It was important to me that the world knew what happened in Nanking back in 1937.
The embargo was lifted at midnight on the day of publication, with buyers lined up for hours outside bookstores throughout the English-speaking world.
In a 1965 Saturday Review of Literature article, ''The All-White World of Children's Books,'' she criticized the near absence of black characters in children's books.
An authority on Alaskan prehistory, Dr. de Laguna was part of the first generation of women to succeed in the rough-and-ready, ultramasculine world of early 20th century field archaeology.
A Wave in World War II, Dr. de Laguna also studied the Pima Indians of Arizona.
'' In the 1950's she also wrote some stories about children and animals that won her wide recognition and awards, including ''Four Little Foxes,'' ''Elephant Herd,'' and ''When Will the World Be Mine?
''When Will the World Be Mine?
'' (1953), republished 20 years later as ''The Rabbit's World,'' was named a Caldecott Honor Book.
She later performed Giselle as a star of Ballet Theater (as American Ballet Theater was originally called) and as a guest artist with companies around the world.
''
        Dame Alicia, who had occasionally made guest appearances in the ballet sequences of works in the repertory of the Metropolitan Opera, astonished the dance world in 1963 when she accepted an invitation to direct the Metropolitan Opera Ballet.
Her father, Teobaldo Tebaldi, was a wounded soldier from the First World War when he met and married Giuseppina Barbieri, a gifted singer who had wanted a musical career but became a nurse.
'' This led to a career-making appearance in a concert to reopen the La Scala opera house, heavily damaged during the Second World War.
Who takes care of the piccolini when you go around the world?
Ms. Bender did not limit her activities to the art world.
She danced in the original productions of ballets including ''Celebration,'' ''Primitive Mysteries,'' ''Letter to the World'' and ''Every Soul Is a Circus.
Nathan Sontag, a World War II veteran sent there to recuperate.
''She found in camp an aesthetic that was very different from what the straight world had acknowledged up to that point, and she managed to make camp 'straight' in a way,'' Arthur C. Danto, the Johnsonian professor emeritus of philosophy at Columbia and the art critic for The Nation, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
The crush of photographs, Ms. Sontag argued, has shaped our perceptions of the world, numbing us to depictions of suffering.
''
        The Washington Post Book World called ''On Photography'' ''a brilliant analysis,'' adding that it '' merely describes a phenomenon we take as much for granted as water from the tap, and how that phenomenon has changed us -- a remarkable enough achievement, when you think about it.
Her first book in nine years, it includes nearly half of the poems published in her previous eight volumes, starting with ''Valentines to the Wide World'' in 1959.
''
        Or, as she once put it in another context:
        The world is perverse,
        but it could be worse.
The couplet reads, ''The world's perverse/but it could be worse' -- not ''The world is perverse.
The couplet reads, ''The world's perverse/but it could be worse' -- not ''The world is perverse.
The competitive New York art world unnerved her.
Art's value, in her thinking, was in its ability to counteract negative thoughts and emotions, promote psychic calm over chaos, and establish stability in a world of unpredictable and potentially shattering change.
