The family showboat was both her home and her stage, and for 20 years, until World War II helped bring the showboat era to an end, she spent her springs, summers and falls going from town to town along the Ohio River and its tributaries, sometimes stopping for several weeks in bigger river cities like Pittsburgh or Cincinnati.
''She can sweet-talk the world, or play dumb, or whatever it takes to get by without a fuss.
She was a founding chairman, with Dore Schary, of Friends of Democracy, which championed human rights after World War II.
Mrs. Owings, a former member of the California Parks Commission, led campaigns to protect the world's forests and oceans.
Along with Claire McCardell and Tina Leser, Ms. Potter was one of the designers credited with inventing American sportswear, a style that has influenced designers all over the world.
In a report issued in 1944, Dr. Bain said that World War II had intensified the need for regular advice to mothers on how to keep their babies well.
She and her associates traveled all over the world to collect taped interviews with more than 1,500 child survivors of the Holocaust and their children, as well as the children of Nazis.
He managed real estate in New York and, after World War II, sued in German courts to seek compensation for Holocaust victims and also organized aid for their children.
She was an advocate for women who has been credited with having initiated the contemporary analysis of gender roles with her book ''Women in the Modern World: Their Education and Their Dilemmas'' (1953, Irvington).
Ms. Elion broke down sex barriers in the male-dominated world of scientific research, becoming one of the rare women to win a Nobel Prize and, even rarer, a scientist who did not have a doctorate.
''
        In 1991, President George Bush awarded Ms. Elion a National Medal of Science, saying her work had ''transformed the world.
After working for Johnson & Johnson for two years, Ms. Elion, helped by labor shortages in World War II, joined what was then Wellcome Research Laboratories, in Tuckahoe, N.Y., as a biochemist.
One classed her tormented visions as ''the bleached language of truth and poetry'' depicting a world in which love and violence are intertwined.
Dr. Harrower developed her own set of inkblot cards to administer to groups of Canadian military recruits in World War II.
She published about 25 new books a year, becoming a fixture at the annual Frankfurt Book Fair and  mining world literature for anything worthy of publication in English.
In a field that began when a Syrian beauty who called herself Little Egypt danced her way into legend at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair, Miss St. Cyr was a master of elegant invention.
But she also became a highly respected figure in the dance world of New York after her debut there in 1960.
'' In another interview she went further, asserting that good art offers ''uncontaminated'' happiness that also teaches ''how to look at the world and to understand it; it makes everything far more interesting.
In 1944 she began working for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, which helped Europeans displaced by World War II.
Its protagonist, a retired theatrical director trying to win back his first love, is not so much evil as simply self-absorbed and dangerously certain of his limited view of the world.
'' In a memorable phrase, he contended that, while Miss Murdoch had a rare ability ''to dredge that world of the strange and mysterious'' that rested ''on the boundary of the ordinary,'' her work rarely offered a convincing portrait of the more common realms of life.
The United States Government decorated her for her many performances in Army camps and hospitals during World War II.
''But she believed she was able to do something to better the world with the money she made.
It was translated into several languages and left an impact in much of the world.
She served in the Army Nurse Corps as a first lieutenant in World War II and received a master's degree from Columbia University in 1947 and a doctorate in education in 1953.
''When you're looking at the computer monitor and you suddenly see what you had hoped you would find,'' she added, ''it's the greatest feeling in the world.

        Harriet M. Waddy, one of the two highest-ranking black officers in the Women's Army Corps in World War II and its wartime adviser on racial issues, died on Feb. 21 in Las Vegas, Nev. She was 94.
Major West and Maj. Charity Adams, who commanded the only unit of black Wacs sent overseas in World War II, were the only two black women to attain the rank of major in the wartime WAC.
Nevertheless, Ms. Corio's efforts to present her show at the 1964-65 World's Fair in Flushing Meadows, Queens, were rebuffed by Robert Moses, the pillar of municipal rectitude who presided over the corporation that ran the event.
Her documentary ''Art and Remembrance, the Legacy of Felix Nussbaum,'' about the German-Jewish painter who hid in Belgium during World War II but was caught by the Nazis and killed at Auschwitz, received a CINE award.
It remains one of the world's most important centers for notation research.
After World War II, she taught notation for the American Dance Festival when it was at Connecticut College in New London.
To the world of the early 1900's, Leo Tolstoy was a literary giant who had become the ''hermit of Yasnaya Polyana,'' the luxurious family estate 150 miles south of Moscow where he lived for 48 years and wrote  ''Anna Karenina'' and ''War and Peace.
For Miss Tolstoy, who was 7 when her grandfather died in 1910 and 10 when the outbreak of World War I gave her father an excuse to desert his family (he eventually settled in the United States and remarried), the aristocratic life was short-lived.
After returning to China, she taught at McTyeire and taught physical education at Ginling College in Nanjing, and from 1935 to 1947, she was a vice president of the world Young Women's Christian Association.
Mrs. Chu returned to China after World War II but left in 1950 and took up permanent residence in the United States, becoming a citizen in 1955.
She came to the United States at the start of World War II, studied chemistry and biology at Columbia University and worked in an industrial laboratory.
The fashion world was abuzz with gossip on two topics: speculation that Hearst was paying Ms. Tilberis an annual salary of $1.25 million (never confirmed or denied) and anticipation of a rivalry between Ms. Tilberis and Ms. Wintour, her predecessor at British Vogue, who had recommended Ms. Tilberis as her replacement there.
)
        Ms. Tilberis's aim when she took over Harper's Bazaar, she said, was to make it ''the most beautiful fashion magazine in the world.
In an interview published last year in The Times, Ms. Tilberis discussed the stark contrast between her glamorous job and her illness: ''You can live in the fashion world and go to fashion shows and have your picture taken, et cetera, et cetera.
Prior to having cancer, I didn't realize there was this whole different world.
She was hired by Stanford as a research assistant after World War II, one of the few women there at the time.
The unknown world beyond, in imagination, merged with the pulsing underworld life of 'The Threepenny Opera' and became sinister, exotic, menacing.
The 38th volume of John Willis's ''Theater World'' (1981-82) is dedicated ''To Lucille Lortel, whose vibrant spirit and untiring efforts have made immeasurable contributions to all components of the theater by discovering and encouraging new talent, and whose devotion to Off Broadway provided the impetus for its proliferation.
Instead, it teaches the baby that the world is a responsive place and leads to less crying long term.
She settled in San Francisco in World War II, briefly married and had a daughter who died in a car accident.

        Michi N. Weglyn, author of an acclaimed book about the internment of Japanese-Americans in the United States during World War II, died last Sunday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
in 1930, and during World War II, she was a leader in the organization's war work, maintaining a service booth in the Roosevelt Hotel in Manhattan for the armed forces.

        Sheila Gruson, an artist who worked as an assistant director  with many opera companies around the world, died yesterday in Tiverton, in Devon, England.
In her next meet, the Chicago-area Olympic trials, she equaled the world record of 12.0 seconds (the current world record is 10.49, set by Florence Griffith Joyner in 1988).
In her next meet, the Chicago-area Olympic trials, she equaled the world record of 12.0 seconds (the current world record is 10.49, set by Florence Griffith Joyner in 1988).
After Robinson won the gold, Douglas MacArthur, then the president of the American Olympic Committee, presented her with a small gold charm shaped like the world.
Her career included world records at 50, 60, 70 and 100 yards.
Ms. Stader was born in Budapest in 1911, but was reared in Switzerland by adoptive parents after she was orphaned during World War I.
The tour was canceled after the outbreak of World War II.
The Washington Post Book World compared the book to the work of F. Scott Fitzgerald ''in both style and subject matter.
Mrs. Meserve's interest in holly began shortly after World War II when she and her family moved to a 10-acre estate in St. James on Long Island and she chanced to attend a local garden-club lecture about the holly, the evergreen whose glossy, pointed leaves and clusters of red berries decorate gardens and deck the halls at Christmas.
The profits from the sale of Mrs. Meserve's holly patents helped to  maintain her estate, which came to be called Holly-by-Golly, and her plants are sold by commercial growers throughout the world.
''Meg has had a big influence,'' said Jodie Allen, who was lured into journalism by Miss Greenfield and is now a senior writer at U.S. News & World Report.
''
        She added: ''When the end of the world finally comes about and editorial writers are all called to judgment, it won't be the headline pranks run amok, that sort of thing, that will get us.
''
        Miss Ralov also did much to acquaint the world with Danish ballet.
''
        Miss Ralov also did much to acquaint the world with Danish ballet.
She worked for World Student Relief in Geneva after World War II, and in 1957 became the sixth woman to be ordained by the Presbyterian Church USA.
She worked for World Student Relief in Geneva after World War II, and in 1957 became the sixth woman to be ordained by the Presbyterian Church USA.

        Cecilia Danieli,  who helped revolutionize the world steel industry by developing the compact steel mills known in the industry as minimills, died last Thursday of cancer.
These mills revolutionized steelmaking and tilted the market away from the developed world by giving scores of countries in Africa, South America and the East Asia the means to produce steel cheaply and efficiently.
'' Heeding the recommendation of the World Federation of Jewish Sports Clubs, headed by Lord Melchett of Britain, the three swimmers refused to take part in the Olympics.
Five weeks later, World War II began and she was evacuated from London to Bath as an ''enemy alien.
Penicillin also saved the lives of an untold number of servicemen and civilians wounded in World War II; in earlier wars, people died by the thousands from bacterial infections resulting from their injuries.
Largely forgotten, it came to the fore only when researchers picked up on it again at Oxford University at the outbreak of World War II.
''
        In Lang's stark cinema of social injustice, the film historian David Thomson wrote, the actress ''caught exactly the fragile happiness allowed in Lang's world and played with a restraint that perfectly matched the fatal simplicity of the plots.
For ''Shogun'' Ms. Zipprodt traveled to Japan, studied the weaving industry in Kyoto that dated back to the world of ''Shogun'' and visited and photographed Kabuki theaters, samurai-movie studios, gardens, castles and textile mills.
''
        After Cranko's death in 1973, Ms. Woolliams staged his ballets around the world and remained in Stuttgart  until 1976 when she was invited to become artistic director of the Australian Ballet.
''
        Miss Schoop remained in Switzerland throughout World War II, often performing in anti-Fascist cabaret shows.
In addition, she wrote two books, ''Occupation Angel'' (1962), about Broadway, and ''Ninety Dozen Glasses'' (1960), about her life with Mr. Cullman in 1958, when he was the United States Commissioner for the World's Fair in Brussels.

        Helen Forrest, the big-band singer whose dreamy hits with the Harry James orchestra distilled the nostalgic spirit of World War II pop, died on Sunday at the Motion Picture Country Home and Hospital in Los Angeles.
''
        Mr. Campbell died in 1971 at age 31, and the next year she married Vernon Eagle, then the executive director of the New World Foundation, which supported civil rights and community projects.
Its accounts of rural life attracted an audience of millions around the world.
Since her marriage, Ms. Bessette Kennedy had largely shunned the fashion world.
In her heyday, Mrs. Marron, who lived in Brielle, N.J., and Palm Beach, Fla., held five world fishing records; one women's record, for a 722-pound swordfish caught in 1954 off Chile, remains unbroken, according to the International Game Fish Association in Dania Beach, Fla.
        Mrs. Marron traveled the world for big-game fish with her husband, Louis E. Marron, who holds the men's record with a 1,182-pound swordfish caught off Chile in 1953.
In her heyday, Mrs. Marron, who lived in Brielle, N.J., and Palm Beach, Fla., held five world fishing records; one women's record, for a 722-pound swordfish caught in 1954 off Chile, remains unbroken, according to the International Game Fish Association in Dania Beach, Fla.
        Mrs. Marron traveled the world for big-game fish with her husband, Louis E. Marron, who holds the men's record with a 1,182-pound swordfish caught off Chile in 1953.
Ms. Schwartz's familiarity with the debilities of old age stemmed from her years as an Army nurse in World War II, when she tended to wounded soldiers with similar afflictions.

        Tove (Musse) Hansen, who presided over Scandia, a popular Los Angeles restaurant in the 1950's and 60's, after helping Jews flee Denmark during World War II, died last Saturday at her home in Los Angeles.
From the start, the program at Ulpan Akiva taught not only Jewish immigrants, but also Israel's Arab citizens and visitors from around the world.
She received a bachelor's degree in economics from Northwestern University, and  worked in the Pentagon during World War II.

        Chan Richardson Parker, known to many in the jazz world as the last wife of Charlie (Bird) Parker, the be-bop innovator, died on Sept. 9 in a hospital in Etampes, France, southwest of Paris.

        Tahia Carioca, the Egyptian belly dancer often called the Marilyn Monroe of the Arab world, died of a heart attack in a Cairo hospital on Monday.
Miss Carioca's parents were mortified when as a teen-ager she took her beauty and talent to a Cairo nightclub to dance for strangers, but it was the beginning of a journey that would make her one of the world's most renowned belly dancers.
But beyond mere fame, she virtually defined the intricate, pulsating art called raqs sharqi in Arabic nations but known in the West as the belly dance since a promoter at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair dreamed up the name.
''
        Of course, Miss Carioca married many interesting men, among them an American army officer whom she met during World War II, an actor and a prominent playwright.
People all over the world knew who she was and what she did.
In a world in which people are suspicious of things too good to be true, he said, Miss McCarty really was good and true.
      
She left France after the start of World War II and came to New York, where she lived and worked in Greenwich Village for many years.

        Lenon Hoyte, better known as Aunt Len, who shared her dream of a doll museum with Harlem children and  collectors from around the world for two decades, died Aug. 1 at a hospital in New York.
But in their time they made box office cash registers ring like sleigh bells and in 1951 Ms. Roman was receiving 500 letters a week from around the world.
She was resident choreographer of the Royal Swedish Ballet from 1951 to 1957, and her most famous works were danced by ballet companies throughout the world.
Just before World War II she began a career in public relations and eventually started a firm with Helen Erskine.

        Doreen Valiente, a self-proclaimed witch who in the mid-1950's wrote part of the liturgy now used by witches around the world, died in Brighton, England, on Sept. 1.
''
        The book auction and the publicity visit to New York transported her to a new world.
Miss Foveaux was born in Holden, Mo., in 1899, at a time when the world of Mark Twain was fading into memory.
As World War I started, she got her first job and fell in love with a young soldier.
A British-born physician who specialized in high-altitude medicine, Dr. Harrison was part of an 11-member international expedition scaling Dhaulagiri in central Nepal, at 26,795 feet the world's seventh highest mountain.
''
        During more than 50 years as a performer, Ms. Rodrigues was acclaimed as the definitive voice of fado, revered in Portugal and acclaimed as its musical representative around the world.
Ms. Rodrigues began to tour beyond Portugal after World War II.
''
        By then, Ms. Rodrigues was known around the world.
Her desire to pursue advanced studies was delayed by the outbreak of World War II.

        Lee Lozano, an eccentric artist who pursued Conceptual Art and painting in the 1960's and then left the New York art world for self-imposed exile that included an embargo on contact with other women, died on Oct. 2 in the Dallas Health and Rehabilitation Center in Texas.
They also reflected an increasing disenchantment with the art world that bordered on hostility.
In 1969 and 1970 Ms. Lozano began a steady withdrawal from the art world in works that she titled ''General Strike Piece'' and ''Dropout Piece.
For years, she single-handedly published Bibliographica Neuroendocrinologica, an abstract of the world's research in her field.
Colleagues said that part of her motivation was to spread new findings to third world countries.
During World War II the Casadesus family settled in Princeton but returned to France in 1946.
She said she spent more time in the world's jungles, mountains and other wild areas than at home.
''She gave so much to the birding world and had so much more left to give,'' said G. Stuart Keith, the birding association's first president.
''Birding is the best and most exciting pursuit in the world, a glorified never-ending one,'' Mrs. Snetsinger wrote.

        Gloria Caruso Murray, a visual artist who was the last surviving child of Enrico Caruso, died on Dec. 5 at St. Luke's Hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 79 and had briefly tried to live up to the musical world's sentimental fantasy that she had inherited her father's vocal abilities.
Only hours after his daughter's birth on Dec. 18, 1919, at the Knickerbocker Hotel just a stone's throw from the old Metropolitan Opera House in New York, Caruso, then the most famous operatic tenor in the world, exuberantly tossed the girl into the air, peered into her mouth and announced, ''Ah, she has the vocal cords, just like her daddy!
In 1943, Gloria Caruso married Ensign Michael Hunt Murray, who had left Harvard to become a naval aviator in World War II.
Her father was killed in World War I and her mother lived mostly abroad.
'' He said hundreds of police departments from all over the world called the Nutley police to reach her.
She worked in a law office before becoming an assistant editor at John Bernard Myers's literary journal View and an assistant to Frances Steloff at the Gotham Book Mart, jobs that gained her entry into the world of New York poets, artists and intellectuals involved in dance in the 1940's.

        Lucile Petry Leone, the founding director of the United States Cadet Nurse Corps, which recruited more than 100,000 young women to study nursing and helped spare the country of the need to draft nurses in World War II, died on Nov. 25 at an assisted-living center in San Francisco.
Ms. Iotti, who served as a Partisan during World War II, was first elected to office in 1946, winning a seat in the constitutional assembly.
''She had a total passion and commitment, and that's not always the best way to function and get along in this world, in a political environment.
She received a bachelor's degree from the University of Idaho and worked as a stewardess for United Airlines and then for Pan American World Airways.
