''An afternoon with Miss La Meri is rather like being shown a small corner of some connoisseur's collection of choreographiana,'' John Martin wrote in The New York Times in 1940 in a review of one of La Meri's many New York appearances.
La Meri wrote six volumes of poetry and five books on dance esthetics, technique and composition.
''
        In 1926, three years after her flapper had burst upon the screen, Miss Moore wrote: ''Don't worry, girls.
''
        In 1926, three years after her flapper had burst upon the screen, Miss Moore wrote: ''Don't worry, girls.
A history of precious stones she wrote, ''Gems,'' was published by Viking in 1967.
She also wrote book reviews, and served on juries that judged children's books.
She contributed to several Nancy Drew mysteries, compiled a book of games from around the world, published many magazine articles and wrote a number of biographies geared to children, including a 1967 work on President Kennedy.
She also wrote several books, including ''The Creative Woman'' and ''A Private View of Public Life.
She moved to Washington in 1933 and wrote a column, ''These Charming People,'' for The Times-Herald until 1939.

       Angie Debo, who came to Oklahoma in a covered wagon and wrote 13 books and hundreds of articles about Indian and Oklahoma history, died Sunday at a hospital in Enid.
Angie Debo, who came to Oklahoma in a covered wagon and wrote 13 books and hundreds of articles about Indian and Oklahoma history, died Sunday at a hospital in Enid.
In a letter published in a local newspaper, Mrs. McCullough wrote that the entertainers, ''while fine artists, have been openly denounced in the press as being pro-Communist and, as such, I do not believe should appear in any community project in Greenwich.
Mrs. Noble wrote ''The Nature of the Beast,'' a book on animal behavior based on research by her husband, Dr. G. Kingsley Noble, a curator at the American Museum of Natural History who died in 1940.
In Parliament, Miss Ravera sought to extend women's rights, and she wrote a history of the women's movement in Italy.
Breakthrough in 1958
        When two of the earliest and grandest of these walls, ''Sky Cathedral,'' was shown in 1958, Hilton Kramer wrote of them in The New York Times that they were ''appalling and marvelous, utterly shocking in the way they violate our received ideas on the subject of sculpture and the confusion of genres, yet profoundly exhilarating in the way they open an entire realm of possibility.
Breakthrough in 1958
        When two of the earliest and grandest of these walls, ''Sky Cathedral,'' was shown in 1958, Hilton Kramer wrote of them in The New York Times that they were ''appalling and marvelous, utterly shocking in the way they violate our received ideas on the subject of sculpture and the confusion of genres, yet profoundly exhilarating in the way they open an entire realm of possibility.
Breakthrough in 1958
        When two of the earliest and grandest of these walls, ''Sky Cathedral,'' was shown in 1958, Hilton Kramer wrote of them in The New York Times that they were ''appalling and marvelous, utterly shocking in the way they violate our received ideas on the subject of sculpture and the confusion of genres, yet profoundly exhilarating in the way they open an entire realm of possibility.
In reviewing ''As the Girls Go,'' Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times wrote that ''Miss Rich is a lady who presides over the whole rumpus with warmth, charm and good manners, and the show has the good taste to respect her quality.
President Reagan in 1984 wrote to her that ''in furthering the administration of justice in our legal system,'' her ''diligence, distinguished efforts and pioneering spirit serve as an inspiration to all.
With her husband, Frederick, she wrote several books, including ''America's Forgotten Folk Art.
She wrote ''Playtime With Music,'' a children's songbook, and a series of short children's plays about health for the American Medical and Dental Associations.
Mrs. Sanders wrote books on fashion and magazine and newspaper articles.

       Adele De Leeuw, who wrote more than 75 children's books, died of cancer of the colon Sunday at her home in Plainfield, N.J. She was 88 years old.
Adele De Leeuw, who wrote more than 75 children's books, died of cancer of the colon Sunday at her home in Plainfield, N.J. She was 88 years old.
Pirandello wrote several plays specifically for Miss Abba, including ''As You Desire Me'' in 1930.
Miss Gillars ''has the hair of Mother machree and she wears it in the manner of Rita Hayworth,'' Richard H. Rovere wrote in The New Yorker of Feb. 26, 1949.
''
        Mrs. Estes wrote a single adult novel, ''The Echoing Green,'' which never achieved the popularity of her children's works.
Abandoning 'Polite Society'
        Miss Mackay wrote what her friends called her ''saucy but amusing'' opinions in articles for The New Yorker.
''It is not because fashionable young ladies are picturesquely depraved that they go to cabarets,'' she wrote.
Marriage of 62 Years
        The marriage, during which Mr. Berlin wrote several songs just for her, including ''Always'' and ''The Song Is Ended,'' was a true love match and was to last 62 years.
She wrote four books published by McGraw-Hill, including ''Wednesday's Children,'' a 1964 book that helped bring about enactment of legislation in New Jersey dealing with child abuse.
As a journalist for Hearst and other publications, she wrote about such stories as the Leopold-Loeb murder trial, the abdication of Edward VIII, the Lindbergh baby kidnapping and the trial of the kidnapper, Bruno Hauptmann.
She also wrote many articles for Photoplay magazine, becoming known as its ''Mother Confessor of Hollywood.
She wrote in a 1969 volume of memoirs, ''The Honeycomb,'' that what she did not learn at school she had ''learned from pimps, professional prostitutes, gamblers, bank robbers, poets, newspapermen, jury bribers, millionaire dipsomaniacs and murderers.
Mrs. Palmer wrote poetry and plays.

       Ann Seranne, a food consultant and a former editor at Gourmet magazine who wrote more than two dozen cookbooks, died Saturday at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. Ms. Seranne, who had suffered a stroke earlier, was 75 years old and lived in Newton.
Ann Seranne, a food consultant and a former editor at Gourmet magazine who wrote more than two dozen cookbooks, died Saturday at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. Ms. Seranne, who had suffered a stroke earlier, was 75 years old and lived in Newton.
Mrs. Mumford wrote three collections of poetry - ''The Door in the Forest,'' ''Willow Water'' and ''The Karma Bazaar.
She wrote her own life story in the book ''Woman and Top Manager,'' frequently worked 12-hour days, but refused to work weekends in order to spend the time with her husband, Lionello Cantoni, a mathematics professor.
She wrote ''Rugs of Spain and Morocco'' (1977), ''Silk Textiles of Spain (Eighth to Fifteenth Century) (1957), and ''Hispanic Lace and Lace Making'' (1939), among other books.
Within the past year, ''Losing Ground,'' a television film she wrote and directed, appeared on ''American Playhouse.
'' ''The Cruz Brothers and Miss Molloy,'' which she wrote, was shown on the Learning Channel.
Wrote 'The Big Gate'
        Mrs. Stuckey's first poetry collection, ''The Big Gate,'' was published in 1976, when she was 69 years old.
'' In this work Mrs. Stuckey wrote about the lives of black Americans from the past to the present, and their migrations from South to North and from rural to urban America.
Although she wrote poetry all of her life, she concentrated on it after retiring at the age of 60 as a supervisor in the Illinois Department of Labor.
A 1920 graduate of Barnard College, Mrs. Kubie wrote 12 fiction and nonfiction books for juveniles, and ''Road to Nineveh,'' a biography of the archeologist Austin Henry Layard.
''I was overwhelmed,'' she wrote in an article in The New York Times Book Review in 1974.
One of her authors, Louise Fitzhugh, wrote in ''The Long Secret,'' about a girl's first menstruation.
Mrs. Stolper, who came to New York from Germany in 1933, wrote several books in German on economics and worked with Self Help and the American Council for Emigres in the Professions, two resettlement agencies.
Professor Hertzberg wrote several books, including ''The Search for an American Indian Identity: Modern Pan-Indian Movements,'' (Syracuse University Press, 1971) and was a co-author of a book on the United Nations with her husband, Sidney, who died in 1984.
''
        She wrote three books about her experiences and was working on an autobiography when she died after a year fighting cancer.
She wrote two mystery novels published in the late 1930's, ''The Shapes That Creep'' and ''The Last Twist of the Knife.
After her marriage she worked for a time as an occupational therapist, wrote magazine articles and worked as a Macy's sales clerk.
Mrs. Wilson wrote an autobiography, ''Lois Remembers,'' first published in 1979.
''I did not believe that there was any good reason why either the children or myself should come to terms with life as we found it in that bleak mining village,'' she wrote in her volume of memoirs ''This Great Journey.
'The Very Best Portrait'
        ''Beloved Infidel,'' which Miss Graham wrote in collaboration with Gerold Frank, became an international best seller, received critical approval for its warmth and authenticity, and was hailed by Edmund Wilson in a long review in The New Yorker as ''the very best portrait of Fitzgerald that has yet been put into print.
For example, in ''The Rest of the Story,'' published in 1964, she wrote: ''Sitting at my typewriter, banging out the items, I sometimes laugh as I stir my witch's brew, putting in the onions and the herbs to give indigestion to people I don't like or to those I think have slighted me, the great me.
'' A Hard Childhood
        Miss Graham's real name was Lily Shiel, which ''to this day horrifies me to a degree impossible to explain,'' she wrote in ''Beloved Infidel.
At Home in Hollywood
        In 1933, Miss Graham said, she moved to New York and for two years wrote for The New York Mirror and The Evening Journal.
Miss Graham resumed her Hollywood column after the war and, to earn as much money as she could, also wrote for magazines and conducted a radio show and a television show, ''Hollywood Today,'' in the mid-1950's.
She specialized in children's speech and wrote a 1956 manual for parents called ''Your Child's Speech.
Reviewing her Metropolitan Opera debut, Olin Downes wrote in The New York Times, ''The shining light of this performance was Miss Seefried, whose beautiful voice and brilliancy and authority of style won her instant recognition.
She also wrote for ''The David Susskind Show.
They returned her affection: Mr. Monk wrote the tune ''Pannonica'' for her; the pianist Horace Silver wrote ''Nica's Dream'' and the saxophonist Gigi Gryce wrote ''Nica's Tempo.
They returned her affection: Mr. Monk wrote the tune ''Pannonica'' for her; the pianist Horace Silver wrote ''Nica's Dream'' and the saxophonist Gigi Gryce wrote ''Nica's Tempo.
They returned her affection: Mr. Monk wrote the tune ''Pannonica'' for her; the pianist Horace Silver wrote ''Nica's Dream'' and the saxophonist Gigi Gryce wrote ''Nica's Tempo.
She wrote ''The Golden Picture Dictionary'' and edited the best-selling Golden Book Encyclopedia.
She wrote a book for children, ''There's a Decorator in Your Doll House,'' published by Atheneum in 1968.
''As I stood there with the dim outline of the forest all around, I was spellbound, '' she wrote in her diaries.
In radio, Miss Seymour not only performed but wrote and directed programs between 1932 and 1961.
