''Our representative democracy is not working,'' she wrote in a 1970 book that borrowed her campaign slogan as its title, ''because the Congress that is supposed to represent the voters does not respond to their needs.
Ms. Freeman, one of the few women on the Times's reporting staff when she was hired in 1940, initially wrote light society features, but moved to breaking news with an award-winning story on the explosion of two ships hauling munitions in Galveston Bay, Tex., in 1947.
Ms. Freeman also wrote 77 other books, including mystery novels and memoirs.
All those men,'' she wrote in a memoir, ''The Beloved Prison,'' (St. Martin's Press, 1989).
Later, she asked to move to a writing position in The Post's Style section and frequently wrote for Vanity Fair.
''
        In a column published last November, Ms. Williams wrote of her helping her daughter dress in an elaborate Halloween costume.
'' she wrote.
She also appeared on television, in shows like ''Murder, She Wrote,'' ''Santa Barbara'' and ''Remington Steele.
''I had never before seen fresh, internal organs, blood vessels and nerves,'' she wrote in an essay in Scientific American.
Calling the experience ''my road to Damascus,'' she wrote, ''Their extreme beauty was a revelation.
''During the first day of dissecting the bivalve,'' she wrote in Scientific American, ''I found a specimen infested with larval trematodes,'' which are parasitic flatworms known as flukes.
In ''Fleas, Flukes & Cuckoos: A Study of Bird Parasites,'' which she wrote with Theresa Clay in 1952 (Philosophical Library), she argued that most people misunderstood fleas.
''You can really abandon any romantic idea of creating a home for these angelic creatures,'' she wrote in ''The Butterfly Gardener,'' published in 1983.
) Trained as a concert pianist, she wrote the original Spanish lyrics for ''Bésame Mucho'' when she was 25 and, as she liked to say, had never been kissed.
The song's haunting melody, which Ms. Velázquez also wrote, is based on the aria ''Quejas, o la Maja y el Ruiseñor'' (''Plaints, or the Maiden and the Nightingale''), from the 1916 opera ''Goyescas,'' by the Spanish composer Enrique Granados.
''Our representative democracy is not working,'' she wrote in a 1970 book that borrowed her campaign slogan as its title, ''because the Congress that is supposed to represent the voters does not respond to their needs.
Her most notable full-length biographies included ''Unforgettable: The Life and Mystique of Nat King Cole'' (1991), ''Sassy: The Life of Sarah Vaughan'' (1993) and ''Skain's Domain: A Biography'' (1999), which she wrote with the participation of its subject, Wynton Marsalis.
Ms. Grant wrote ''Black Protest'' (Fawcett, 1968), a documentary analysis of black resistance from 1619 on.
She later wrote ''Ella Baker: Freedom Bound'' (Wiley, 1998), a biography.
Reviewing ''Between Myth and Morning'' in The Christian Science Monitor, June Goodwin wrote: ''Of all the writers on the subject of feminism,'' Ms. Janeway ''has the most acceptability in the eyes of men.
Through her husband's involvement with the Roosevelt and Johnson administrations, she came to know many prominent Washington figures, including Eleanor Roosevelt, about whom she wrote profiles.
In his review of that recital, Virgil Thomson, the demanding critic of The New York Herald Tribune, wrote, ''The voice is one of rare natural beauty, the schooling impeccable, the artistry first class.
Distressed to find there were no books on Korean music in American libraries, Ms. Joh also wrote ''Folk Songs of Korea,'' published by Wm.
The work, Mrs. Small wrote, was ''a life of people risking their own lives to help men and ships; a life of order and duty.
''I loved being in the tower at sunset,'' Mrs. Small wrote.
Dr. Meadow taught, wrote, edited, practiced therapy, and founded and led organizations, including the Center for Modern Psychoanalytic Studies in Manhattan, along with its branch, the Cyril Z. Meadow Institute of Psychoanalysis, in Dummerston.
While asking about a Roger Angell statement, the interviewer at first wrote the name ''Angel,'' then added the second l. Miss Gould observed, ''I was going to say ''
        Always the arbiter, she added, with amusement, ''I'll have to stage a faked death and come back to correct my obit.
Although Ms. Norton's subsequent books for Ace sold in the hundreds of thousands, she found herself the victim of a Catch-22: critics of science fiction did not take her seriously because she was considered a juvenile writer and critics of children's literature dismissed her because she wrote science fiction.
As Francis J. Molson wrote in the Dictionary of Literary Biography, ''It is possible that the pace and suspense of Norton's storytelling may so ensnare readers that they may overlook the themes and concerns her narratives embody.
At Collingwood High School she wrote for the school newspaper and during her senior year produced her first novel, which, reworked, became her second published book, ''Ralestone Luck'' (Appleton, 1938).
In the next two decades she wrote almost 70 novels and two dozen short stories, and edited several anthologies.
''
        She wrote two books about her experiences.
She wrote and distributed leaflets protesting torture in Nazi prisons.
'' She wrote that he said it was ''more important than I am, more important than myself.
A past president of the Antiquarian Booksellers' Association of America, Ms. Rostenberg wrote numerous books herself: scholarly works on printing history, and memoirs written with Ms. Stern that twinned their love of literary sleuthing with reminiscences of their life together.
Referring to the article in The Times, they wrote: ''Several readers inferred from it that our relationship was a lesbian one.
She lectured, wrote some 350 scientific articles and worked closely with many of the patients at her clinic.
''She was called the 'Little Colonel' because of her diminutive stature,'' Mr. Brokaw wrote, ''but when it came to promoting a wider role for women in the military, she was a towering figure, a godmother to the women who continued to struggle to find their places in the male-dominated military establishment.
She wrote how she and her husband had undertaken the process of ''ungardening,'' or changing what had become an environment of sterile lawn and plantings into carefully researched ecosystems representing swamp, prairie, rock barren and other native environments.
Under her pen name, Ms. Ellis wrote a dozen slender novels, most published by Duckworth, among them ''The Sin Eater'' (1977); ''The Birds of the Air'' (1980); ''The Summer House,'' a trilogy (Penguin, 1994); and ''Fairy Tale'' (Moyer Bell, 1998).
Reviewing ''The Summer House'' in The New York Times Book Review in 1994, Francine Prose wrote, ''Its quick humor, prickly ironies and lack of portentous self-importance may mislead casual readers into overlooking its true heft, its provocative and disturbing shrewdness.
Ms. Ellis, who also wrote on domestic life and religion for several British publications, remained a passionately traditional Catholic who deplored efforts to modernize the church.
She wrote two college textbooks considered classics in the field: ''Theater for Children in the United States: A History'' (University of Oklahoma, 1971) and ''Creative Drama in the Classroom and Beyond,'' to be published by Allyn & Bacon this spring in its eighth edition.
Theater, she wrote in a 1990 article, ''is finding recognition as an art that contributes to the emotional, intellectual and social development of the child.
She wrote her autobiography in 1991.

        Faith McNulty, a New Yorker staff writer who wrote many books about animals and country life for adults and children, died last Sunday at her home in Wakefield, R.I. She was 86.
Reviewing ''Heartbreak'' in The New York Times Book Review, Laura Miller wrote: ''Dworkin is one of the few remaining specimens of pure countercultural Romanticism: fierce, melodramatic and utterly convinced that all truth can be found in her own roiling, untempered emotions.
''One of the differences between marriage and prostitution is that in marriage you only have to make a deal with one man,'' Ms. Dworkin wrote in ''Letters From a War Zone'' (Dutton, 1989).
With the feminist lawyer Catharine A. MacKinnon, she wrote a municipal ordinance, briefly adopted by several cities in the 1980's, that defined pornography as a form of sex discrimination.
Ms. Dworkin also wrote two novels, ''Mercy'' (Four Walls Eight Windows, 1991), about serial rape, and ''Ice and Fire'' (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1987), about prostitution.
''I am not afraid of confrontation or risk,'' she wrote in ''Letters From a War Zone,'' ''also not of arrogance or error.
She wrote two cookbooks, ''How to Cook a Pig & Other Back-to-the-Farm Recipes'' (Simon & Schuster, 1977), with Jean Robitscher and Carolyn Carter; and ''Betty Talmadge's Lovejoy Plantation Cookbook'' (Peachtree Publishers, 1983).
Bernard Holland, a Times music critic, wrote of her playing of Scriabin's music: ''Ms.
She wrote ''Staying Abreast: Rehabilitation Exercises for Breast Cancer Surgery,'' a guide that is available on her Web site, www.stayingabreast.com.
Together they wrote ''Mr.
De Valois changed the young dancer's first name to Pamela and wrote that although initially in need of discipline, ''Pamela settled down -- first to a long and distinguished career in the company and then to pass her knowledge on to the younger Wells generation.
With her sister, Doris Zames Fleischer, Ms. Zames wrote ''The Disability Rights Movement: From Charity to Confrontation'' (Temple University, 2001), a historical survey.
Ms. Alexander also wrote several nonfiction books, including ''Anyone's Daughter'' (Viking, 1979), about Patty Hearst; ''Very Much a Lady: The Untold Story of Jean Harris and Dr. Herman Tarnower'' (Little, Brown, 1983); and ''When She Was Bad'' (Random House, 1990), about the Bess Myerson conspiracy trial.
She wrote a regular column, The Feminine Eye, for the magazine from 1964 to 1969.
''She clearly strives for something higher from music than emotion or adventure,'' wrote Mark Swed, the Los Angeles Times music critic, after that 1996 concert.
She also wrote a column for Hearst newspapers, recounting some of her experiences as an entertainer in wartime.
Ms. Sosenko wrote ''Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup,'' which became Hildegarde's signature song, and was the singer's partner until 1955, when the relationship dissolved.
Sosenko wrote ''Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup,'' which became Hildegarde's signature song, and was the singer's partner until 1955, when the relationship dissolved.
She wrote and edited textbooks and guides for laymen bracing for a death in the family.
She wrote and illustrated two children's books, ''I Like to Be Me'' (Viking, 1963) and ''So Do I'' (Arbor House, 1972).
She wrote a one-sentence proposal for a novel on the episode to Simon & Schuster.
The university is also the distributor of a book she wrote with several colleagues, ''Dancing by the Book: A Catalogue of Books, 1531-1804, in the Collection of Mary Ann O'Brian Malkin.
She wrote an autobiography, ''You Never Fail Until You Stop Trying: The Story of a Pioneer Woman Chemist,'' in 2001.
When a reporter wrote that she had demanded some action by the court, she soon corrected him:
        ''What do you mean 'I demanded the court'?
Motley's style could be deceptive, often challenging a witness to get away with one lie after another without challenging them,'' she wrote in her book ''In My Place,'' published in 1992.
To inform her book, she wrote, it was necessary to ''let the past become a present, let it fall beyond intelligence into reliving, which is true sensuous recall, where dreams come from with all their fears and future hopes of things long past.
Reviewing the novel in The New York Times, Anatole Broyard wrote that the American and British characters were ''like so many Typhoid Marys, carrying the disease of change, change as a fever, wherever they go.
''I took for granted the kind of looks that other women envied and that I treated with a slight contempt,'' she wrote at the age of 69, contemplating the advisability of face-lifts.
To increase the visibility of black children in children's books, Ms. Parker and two friends, Donna Rand and Sheila Foster, established a company to help promote such books and later wrote a series of four guides, ''Black Books Galore!
Ms. Parker wrote six children's picture books, including holiday books and a keepsake book, all picturing black children.
She wrote, ''Every time I looked toward them it was my mother's tiny face .
In an interview with The Jewish Week in 2001, she said her mother wrote her: ''Be good.
''
        On the instructions her father gave her before leaving, Lore wrote the Jewish refugee committee asking it to get her parents out of Austria, as well as her grandparents, aunt and twin cousins.
In a particularly imaginative stroke, the Leslie-Melvilles named a warthog that lived on their property Cronkite, after Walter Cronkite, the CBS news anchor, and wrote a book about the animal.
At the time, The Tuscaloosa News wrote contemptuously that the governor ''squeezed every suspenseful moment of drama from the occasion.
Parks's arrest was the precipitating factor rather than the cause of the protest,'' Dr. King wrote in his 1958 book, ''Stride Toward Freedom.
'''
        In ''Stride Toward Freedom,'' Dr. King wrote, ''Actually no one can understand the action of Mrs.
During World War II, she wrote and broadcast for the Office of War Information, coining such phrases as ''If you can shell a pea, you can pack a parachute.
During part of her tenure at the magazine, she also wrote a syndicated column, ''Young Living.
''
        She also wrote four books on young living and etiquette, with advice on how to meet boys and, once met, what to do about kissing.
Mrs. Raphaelson not only played the part in the Ziegfeld Follies of the 20's but wrote about her experience in one of her two novels, ''Glorified,'' published in 1930.
During the run of ''Rio Rita,'' which The New York Times review said had ''inordinately beautiful dancing girls,'' she eloped with Samson Raphaelson, who wrote both the play and film versions of ''The Jazz Singer,'' as well as the short story on which they were based, among many other things.
The Coast Guardsmen who ferried them across spoke gleefully of shipwrecked sailors, and of ''mosquitoes so large that one holds you by the arms while another sucks blood,'' the women wrote in the April 1951 issue of Natural History magazine.
''To see flocks of 20, 50 or 200 terns feeding is an unforgettable sight,'' the women wrote.
With Ms. Hussey, Ms. Pessino wrote three books for young people, all published by Thomas Y. Crowell: ''Collecting Cocoons'' (1953); ''Collecting Small Fossils'' (1970); and ''Collecting for the City Naturalist'' (1975).
In 1954, Mrs. Nolte, who wrote a weekly column on family matters for The Torrance Herald, a local newspaper, found herself on deadline and strapped for material.
With her second husband, Mrs. Nolte wrote a book, ''Wake Up in Bed, Together!
As the dance historian Margaret Lloyd wrote in ''The Borzoi Book of Modern Dance,'' ''Sybil Shearer is a perfectionist who likes to believe that perfection is humanly attainable.
Simon Wiesenthal, the Nazi hunter, who died in September, wrote in ''Justice Not Vengeance'' (1989) that he was approached in January 1964 in the Cafe Royal in Tel Aviv by three survivors of Maidanek.
Mr. Lelyveld, as a young reporter, was assigned to check out the tip, but wrote that he was not given a specific address.
On July 14, 1964, Mr. Lelyveld wrote that Mrs. Ryan readily acknowledged that she was Hermine Braunsteiner of Maidanek.
Mr. Lelyveld wrote that in prison, Mrs. Ryan refused to speak to other inmates and liked to sew dolls and soft toys.
A German weekly, Süddeutsche Zeitung Magazin, wrote of the couple in 1996, saying he had been seen pushing her through the market in a wheelchair, and asking her if she would like a bouquet of flowers.
''It is a tight, engaging and exceptionally nice novel,'' wrote Eliot Fremont-Smith in The New York Times, ''and if tears come to the reader's eyes, they are a measure of the passion of compassion that it conveys.
''
        Miss Kellogg also wrote the screenplay for the 1970 film by the same name, directed by Otto Preminger, with Liza Minnelli as the title character.
She next wrote ''Like the Lion's Tooth'' (Farrar, 1972), again drawing from life, to tell about three emotionally disturbed children.
Miss Kellogg wrote more screenplays, but nothing equal to her own for ''Junie Moon.
'' She adapted Sylvia Plath's ''Bell Jar'' for a 1979 movie with Julie Harris, and wrote several stage plays, including ''After You've Gone,'' which was initially presented by the Actor's Repertory Theater in 1982.
As Martin Levin of The New York Times wrote in a review of the book: ''Before very many coffee breaks one is a stretcher case, one is pregnant and the third is off to Las Vegas with a notorious lounge lizard.
In the decades that followed ''The Best of Everything,'' Ms. Jaffe wrote 15 more popular books, several of which used the quartet-of-women narrative approach, including ''The Last Chance,'' a 1976 novel that one reviewer described as ''best devoured alone in bed, with a container of yogurt,'' and ''Class Reunion,'' a sudsy 1979 novel about three decades in the lives of four Radcliffe classmates, one of whom has a gay husband.
Ms. Hays also wrote ''The Real Thing: Truth and Power at the Coca-Cola Company'' (Random House, 2004).
She lectured and wrote on the subject in nursing journals, contributing articles on advanced nursing practices and ways to determine criteria for issuing sound credentials.
The two wrote about 65 articles for academic journals, usually with each other though sometimes with other scholars and sometimes individually.
''
        They wrote two books, ''Wheeled Vehicles and Ridden Animals in the Ancient Near East'' (1970) and ''Chariots and Related Equipment from the Tomb of Tutankhamen'' (1985).
''No one person has spent more time studying, reconstructing and analyzing this harness and chariot than Mary Littauer,'' she wrote.
She wrote more than 50 books over 47 years.
Mrs. Hodges also wrote biographies and novels for children and young adults.
Ms. Cohen wrote and edited several important books, among them ''The Modern Dance: Seven Statements of Belief'' (Wesleyan University Press, 1966), an anthology of essays by contemporary choreographers; ''Doris Humphrey: An Artist First'' (Wesleyan, 1972), a biography of a pioneering modern dancer; and ''Next Week, Swan Lake'' (Wesleyan, 1982), a study of dance aesthetics.
