''
        Dr. Thaddeus also wrote scholarly articles on Jonathan Swift, Richard Wright and Anthony Burgess.
She wrote a biography, ''Frances Burney: A Literary Life'' (St. Martin's, 2000), about a writer who had been considered a minor novelist of manners even though she was admired by Samuel Johnson, Edmund Burke, Jane Austen and Edward Gibbon.
''There are some absent friends you don't realize how much you've been missing until they suddenly pop up again,'' he wrote.
Ms. Bliven, who had been contributing to The New Yorker since the late 1950's and became a staff writer in 1961, wrote feature articles and ''Talk of the Town'' items, but she is best remembered as a perceptive and prolific book critic.
She wrote more than 200 long reviews and thousands of shorter items for the magazine's ''Briefly Noted'' column.
Alice Truax, her most recent editor, said that at her peak Ms. Bliven wrote four reviews a week and probably contributed more than 2,000 reviews to the magazine.
She also wrote a novel, ''On Her Own,'' which was published by Grove Press in 1989.
Among the hits she wrote were ''I Don't Know Enough About You,'' ''It's a Good Day,'' and ''Mañana (Is Soon Enough for Me).
''
        ''She makes her listeners feel cherished,'' Whitney Balliett wrote of her in The New Yorker.
In 1959 she wrote the lyrics for a Duke Ellington song, ''I'm Gonna Go Fishing,'' for the film ''Anatomy of a Murder.
''
        She also wrote theme music for the movies ''Johnny Guitar'' and ''About Mrs. Leslie,'' and supplied voices for several characters and sang three songs in the 1952 Walt Disney animated film ''Lady and the Tramp.
In 1992, Mr. Holden reviewed a Peggy Lee performance in New York for The Times and wrote that ''her will power, musicality and professionalism enable her to project a fair degree of the old magic.
''Rocks and trees were as close to us as living beings, and nature protected and nurtured our playing and our dreaming,'' she wrote in a 1973 memoir.
''Inge Morath possesses the priceless quality of making the world look as though it had been discovered only this morning and she was present with her lens to record its bright freshness,'' Harrison E. Salisbury wrote in The New York Times Book Review about the couple's book ''In Russia'' (Viking, 1969).
''As always, the camera sees the past -- all it can see -- and here it speaks of a symmetry of action and thought and a revolution based on empirical common sense, when in truth these people watch the television news for the event on Wall Street, in Washington or Korea that will affect the price of fertilizer and crops,'' he wrote.
She wrote that on Oscar night for ''The Sting'' in 1974, she took ''a diet pill, a small amount of coke, two joints, six halves of Valium, which make three, and a glass and a half of wine.
'' She added, ''Nothing I did in my book is as mean as any of the people I wrote about.
In 1995 she wrote ''Driving Under the Affluence,'' a sometimes surreal personal examination of her problems with the Internal Revenue Service, the 1992 Los Angeles riots and 1994 earthquake, the impact of AIDS and the death of her father.
''But she became a renowned doctor and wrote heavily on liver disease.
On April 18, 1945, she wrote in her memoir, she donned a Wehrmacht uniform and the couple, armed with a submachine gun, pistol and hand grenades, tried to pass through Red Army lines to reach Allied territory.
''A country that had Auschwitz and caused so much horror and then, a few years later, behaves in this manner because I was visible naked on the screen is utterly absurd,'' she wrote later.
Having been initiated into prostitution on 42nd Street as a boy (she was born Ray Rivera), she worried about ''kids who started to hustle on the streets, as she had, at age 10 or 11 and, within a few years, were dead from a stabbing or an overdose or were locked into dead-end lives,'' Martin Duberman wrote in ''Stonewall'' (Dutton, 1993).
When the Gay Activists Alliance eliminated transvestites from its civil rights agenda in the early 70's, she turned on the group, Dudley Clendinen and Adam Nagourney wrote in ''Out for Good'' (Simon & Schuster, 1999).
Ms. Hamilton, known privately by her married name, Virginia Hamilton Adoff, wrote more than 35 books in many genres that spanned picture books and folk stories, mysteries and science fiction, realistic novels and biography.
Once a year, she wrote, he gathered his children around him.
She also wrote a detailed survey of Singapore, described as a ''bizarre, booming anachronism.
She also wrote many book reviews, primarily on books about Asia, for The Times.
In 1958, she was co-editor of The Atlantic magazine's special edition on Communist China and wrote a booklet on China for the Foreign Policy Association.
Nancy Sorel, in her book ''The Women Who Wrote the War,'' called Mrs. Fadiman's career ''a real-life movie.
When she heard that MGM needed a film to occupy Judy Garland between ''The Wizard of Oz'' and ''Babes in Arms,'' she wrote a treatment in a single weekend and became the co-writer of ''Andy Hardy Meets Debutante''(1940), with Garland and Mickey Rooney.
After the war, Ms. Whitmore wrote articles, lectured widely and appeared on the radio quiz show ''Information Please,'' where she met her second husband, Clifton Fadiman, the program's M.C.
Easily bored and often petulant, the princess was known for indulging her moods, which could swing, as Charles Hussey, a British journalist wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 1965, from ''a gaiety that was sometimes febrile'' to ''Hanoverian gloom.
He later wrote that their love ''took no heed of wealth and rank and all the other worldly, conventional barriers which separated us.
But in his 1978 autobiography, ''Time and Chance,''  Group Captain Townsend wrote, ''I simply hadn't the weight, I knew it, to counterbalance all she would have lost.
Shortly afterward, Princess Margaret wrote to Mr. Douglas-Home breaking off the affair.
Some years later, he wrote to ask for a divorce.
Some years later, he wrote to ask for a divorce.
''It is with a man's vision that this artist looks at her subjects -- in the streets, the elevated trains, at the beaches, in the parks, the lobbies of theaters, in seaport places or in a church,'' Frederick James Gregg wrote in The New York Herald in a review of her first solo show in 1919.
''She saw as a woman, perceived the city and its hustle and bustle very much from a woman's point of view,'' she wrote.
''In some ways, Bernstein is a Thornton Wilder of the canvas, '' Ms. Burnham wrote, offering ''consoling and nostalgic images to viewers of the 21st century.
Richard Gere, the actor and a Buddhist, helped get the book printed and wrote a preface.
''I have not reached enlightenment -- the absence of negative feelings,'' she wrote.
A reviewer in Publishers Weekly in 1978 wrote, ''Adults and young people have benefited from LeShan's fluent, sympathetic writing in books addressed to those in trouble.
She wrote her first book when she was 43, began to appear regularly on a television show when she was 46 and got her own program on educational television when she was 48.
In addition to her books, which have been translated into nine languages, and her television and radio shows, she wrote a regular column for Newsday for years and was a contributing editor of Parents magazine.
For nine years, she wrote the ''Talking It Over'' column for Woman's Day.
As she aged, she wrote more about older people.
''
        She wrote a play in her 70's.
When the one-woman play opened in 1995 on Ms. LeShan's 73rd birthday, Lawrence Van Gelder wrote in The Times that it was ''a striking creation'' that brought to life four generations.
He wrote that it would be interesting to see what she could do if she put more than one character on stage.
In her prison journal, Ms. Rinser wrote that she used the experience to rid herself of bourgeois perceptions.
''I have never seen life as I'm getting to see it here: naked, ugly, tough, but unfaked and real,'' she wrote.
Reflecting on her work in her 1999 autobiography, ''Can't Help Singing,'' written with Brian Kellow, a critic and the features editor of Opera News, Ms. Farrell wrote: ''In some ways I'm not sure I was suited to the career I had -- nothing in my background had really prepared me for how to handle it.
In a review of a 1987 performance in The New York Times, Jennifer Dunning wrote, ''Lakshmi proceeded from poignant dismay to the delight of memory and back to loss through smooth-changing facial expressions and most movingly, through the tilt of her head and upper body.
''
        And in describing a 1992 Lakshmi performance, Jack Anderson wrote in The New York Times that ''even dancegoers unfamiliar with Indian mythology could be swept away by the emotions her solos depicted.
''
        Ben Pimlott, the historian and royal biographer, wrote in 1997 that the queen mother was ''the last survivor of the tiny club of center-stage actors of the Second World War.
Her favorite hobby, she once wrote in an autograph album, was ''making friends.
''She can forgive any act but treachery, and then she is implacable as any Scot,'' wrote Dorothy Laird, one of Elizabeth's biographers.
Riven with grief, she wrote to President Eisenhower that ''one cannot imagine life without him, but one must carry on as he would have wished.
Ms. Holland wrote more than 50  books but was not published until her late 40's.

        Shelley Mydans, a journalist who with her husband, the photographer Carl Mydans, covered the war in Asia in World War II and later wrote a novel based on their 21 months in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp, died on Thursday in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 86.
Her other books were ''Thomas,'' a novel based on the life of Thomas à Becket; ''The Vermilion Bridge,'' a novel about eighth-century Japan; and ''The Violent Peace,'' a report on wars, insurgency and terrorism  since World War II, which she wrote with Mr. Mydans.
As Gielgud wrote forthrightly in one of his books, ''She is a great artist as well as one of my most devoted friends.
Often she performed in his plays, and in 2001 when Mike Nichols directed ''The Seagull'' in Central Park, she wrote an essay about Chekhov in the theater's program.
As an editor at the weekly magazine and then at the daily paper she wrote and lectured widely on religion and education.
But Ms. Boreman testified about the dangers of pornography before Congress, courts and city councils in the 1980's, and became a poster child for feminists like Gloria Steinem, who wrote an introduction to her 1986 book with Mike McGrady, ''Out of Bondage.
She once wrote that for years she smoked six packs of cigarettes a day.
She wrote of an extremely disorganized family, and of a father who sexually abused her and once tried to kill her.
In her autobiography, ''An Accidental Autobiography'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1996), she wrote, ''I read Sartre in my late teens and made the mistake of taking him seriously.
They returned to Brooklyn with their two children, and she wrote that she thought of herself as ''one of those furtive, silly housewives with a novel under her apron.
In her 1994 autobiography, ''Dream Doll: The Ruth Handler Story,'' Mrs. Handler wrote: ''My whole philosophy of Barbie was that through the doll, the little girl could be anything she wanted to be.
After the war, she returned to India and wrote her first book, believed to be the first book on yoga written by a Westerner to be published in India.
''Many feminine images have ignited the fantasy of the Mexicans,'' wrote Octavio Paz, Mexico's Nobel Prize-winning poet, in a 1992 essay on cinema and myth-making.
''This was the appearance of a personality who had nothing to do with the rest of Mexican cinema,'' Mr. Taibo wrote in his biography.
In 1943 she married Mr. Lara, Mexico's national musician-poet, a sensational union that drove newspapers wild, especially after Mr. Lara wrote Ms. Félix a song, ''María Bonita,'' or ''Pretty Maria,'' which became fabulously popular.
They were married two years later, and shortly after Igor Cassini, who wrote the Cholly Knickerbocker gossip column, described her as the city's ''bird of paradise.

        Mildred Wirt Benson, who wrote 23 of the first 30 Nancy Drew novels -- those spine-chilling tales of the fearless teenage sleuth who motored about in a blue roadster solving crimes -- died on Tuesday in Toledo, Ohio.
Stratemeyer wrote to offer her a chance to write for his faltering ''Ruth Fielding'' series.
''The plots provided me were brief, yet certain hackneyed names and situations could not be bypassed,'' she wrote.
''
        She wrote that Mr. Stratemeyer was bitterly disappointed with the first one, saying the heroine was ''too flip.
'' But it and the next two books were huge financial successes; she wrote two more by the end of the year.
Except for one bumpy ride with a barnstormer, she had never flown when she wrote the ''Ruth Darrow Flying Stories.
Reviewing the memoir in The New York Times Book Review, Margo Jefferson wrote that ''dispassionate compassion is a very moving quality, and it marks 'Mommy Dressing' from beginning to end.
''It seemed to me an ark of some covenant, with hidden doors that swung open to reveal fragrant jars and beautiful bottles, each of which held other secrets,'' she wrote.
What inspired those reforms, she wrote in her autobiography, was Bevan's plea for politicians to be more flexible and his belief that their ''Holy Grail'' should be ''the living truth, knowing that the truth being alive must change.
''
        Ms. Jacobs wrote that traffic did not become unmanageable, and that more of the low-scale profile of Greenwich Village was preserved.
''They had been called the 'captive nations' by the West,'' she wrote in one of her four books, ''Europe: Road to Unity,'' published in 1992 by Simon & Schuster.
''It was the first time there had ever been a direct threat of confrontation between two Communist armies,'' Miss Lewis wrote of the events in Warsaw.
''
        Then, turning to another armed confrontation that devolved into tragedy in Hungary, she wrote: ''Urgent appeals were broadcast to the Western countries for help.
''The new era starts now,'' she wrote in the Foreign Affairs column of The New York Times in 1990, after German unification emerged from the wreckage of the Communist empire.
''The salient fact about Europe remains the nation-state,'' she wrote in her book ''Europe'' in 1992.
''The old idea was that history was about kings and popes and wars; people, yes, but only the few who held dazzling power,'' she wrote in her last regular column for The Times at the end of 1990.
She wrote significant catalogs on Klee, Fragonard, Morisot, Daumier and Gauguin.
'' In ''Poem About Police Violence,'' she wrote about the so-called accidental death of a black man in police custody: ''Tell me something/ what you think would happen if/ everytime they kill a black boy/ then we kill a cop/ everytime they kill a black man/ then we kill a cop/ you think the accident rate would lower/ subsequently?
In her book of essays, ''Civil Wars'' (Scribner's, 1996), Ms. Jordan wrote of the difficulties of an interracial marriage.
Ms. Wojciechowska wrote 19 books, the best-known of which is ''Shadow of a Bull'' (1964), about a young boy in Spain who finds his identity after his father, a bullfighter, dies in the ring.
''
        She advised millions of readers on problems ranging from acne to alcoholism to AIDS, often in spirited competition with her identical twin sister, who wrote the advice column Dear Abby.
'' Once a Miss Icarus wrote saying she wanted to marry her fiancé's father.
''From then on, boy,'' she added, ''that St. Joe paper printed every damn word I wrote.
In 1971, she wrote about a bill awaiting the president's signature that would allocate $100 million for cancer research.
She wrote a shorter column than usual, asking newspaper editors to preserve the white space at the bottom as a memorial to ''one of the world's best marriages that didn't make it to the finish line.
''
        She advised millions of readers on problems as varied as acne, alcoholism and AIDS, often in spirited competition with her identical twin sister, who wrote the advice column Dear Abby.
'' Once a Miss Icarus wrote saying she wanted to marry her fiancé's father.
''From then on, boy,'' she added, ''that St. Joe paper printed every damn word I wrote.
In 1971, she wrote about a bill awaiting the president's signature that would allocate $100 million for cancer research.
She wrote a shorter column than usual, asking newspaper editors to preserve the white space at the bottom as a memorial to ''one of the world's best marriages that didn't make it to the finish line.
In 1957 Monk wrote one of his most beautiful ballads for her, ''Crepuscule With Nellie,'' while Ms. Monk was undergoing surgery for a thyroid disorder.
''They had been called the 'captive nations' by the West,'' she wrote in one of her four books, ''Europe: Road to Unity,'' published in 1992 by Simon & Schuster.
''It was the first time there had ever been a direct threat of confrontation between two Communist armies,'' Miss Lewis wrote.
''
        Then, turning to another armed confrontation that devolved into tragedy, in Hungary, she wrote: ''Urgent appeals were broadcast to the Western countries for help.
''The new era starts now,'' she wrote in the Foreign Affairs column of The New York Times in 1990, after German unification emerged from the wreckage of the Communist empire.
''The salient fact about Europe remains the nation-state,'' she wrote in her book ''Europe'' in 1992.
''The old idea was that history was about kings and popes and wars; people, yes, but only the few who held dazzling power,'' she wrote in her last regular column for The Times at the end of 1990.
''She is exceedingly pretty,'' wrote the critic for The Daily Telegraph, ''has a devastating sense of comedy, and her points are made with the clean smack of one of Annie's bullets hitting the center of the target.
In ''Drinking'' Ms. Knapp wrote about the disturbing incongruities of her life as what she called a ''high-functioning alcoholic'': she was an award-winning journalist, an Ivy League graduate from a well-to-do New England family and by all appearances a happy, healthy and successful young woman.
She was, she wrote, ''smooth and ordered on the outside; roiling and chaotic and desperately secretive underneath, but not noticeably so, never noticeably so.
''I am in love with my dog,'' she wrote near the beginning of ''Pack of Two: The Intricate Bond Between People and Dogs'' (Dial Press, 1998).
Her ''Out There'' column, in which she often wrote about the travails in life and love of a semifictional 30-something single woman named Alice K. -- ''not her real initial'' -- was one of the paper's most popular features and won her an Alternative Newsweekly Award in 1996.
''I am not proposing,'' he wrote, ''but I have about $1,000 and an old jalopy in New Jersey, I am footloose and fancy free, and I can settle any place.
In 1972 she wrote, directed and produced ''98.5,'' about five artists at the 98 Greene Street Loft; it won an award at the Edinburgh Film Festival that year.
Reviewing a retrospective of her work at the Kraushaar Galleries in Manhattan earlier this year, Grace Glueck wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Slobodkina's varied works were ''all of a creative piece, and a pleasure to behold.
In a memoir published on her Web site, www.slobodkina.com, Ms. Slobodkina wrote, ''When Margaret died, I was left without a writer, and since she always insisted that she liked the way I told my stories, I took a deep breath and began to send them to my agent.
In her memoir she wrote: ''The verbal patterns and the patterns of behavior we present to children in these lighthearted confections are likely to influence them for the rest of their lives.
Ms. Thomas, who would go on to write best sellers like ''The Hidden Life of Dogs,'' wrote a well-received book on the Bushmen, ''The Harmless People'' (Knopf, 1958).
It was an increasingly common practice in the 1950's to X-ray the abdomens of pregnant women to determine the position of their babies, said Dr. Gayle Greene of Scripps College in Claremont, Calif., who wrote ''The Woman Who Knew Too Much: Alice Stewart and the Secrets of Radiation.
In the 1960's, Mrs. Soria wrote a weekly column for the Carnegie Hall program.
She went on to write regularly for the magazines High Fidelity, Musical America (where she wrote a monthly column called Artist Life) and Opera News.
She also wrote a book about the history of the Metropolitan Opera.
She wrote five more novels, then, without public explanation, stopped writing.
It was not the destination that seemed likely when Ms. Wolff, at 22, wrote an 830-page story for a composition class at the University of Michigan and began her journey to the summits of the literary world.
2 have examined the situation from all angles -- and I do mean all angles -- and we can reach no satisfactory solution,'' a soldier wrote in 1945.
Edith H. Walton wrote in her review of ''Whistle Stop'' in The New York Times Book Review: ''Because this is a very unusual book, and a strongly individual one, I am conscious that I have not really succeeded in conveying its flavor.
''One feels certain that this is a scientifically exact record of the speech of factory workers in an automobile bumper plant, of taxi drivers, waitresses in cheap restaurants, beautiful dumb women and beautiful smart ones who haunt small-time night clubs,'' Mr. Prescott wrote.
''My one hobby was developing, as far back as I can remember, an inordinate interest in people and anything and everything happening to them,'' she wrote.
''
        She wrote more books: ''About Lyddy Thomas'' (1947), ''Back of Town'' (1952), ''The Big Nickelodeon'' (1956) and ''Buttonwood'' (1962).
''I will always defend his work energetically, while I'm alive and even after I die,'' she wrote in her museum's catalog.
But she also wrote poetry and was deeply committed to education.
She then wrote a weekly column for the Newsday Syndicate until the mid-1970's.
She then wrote a weekly column for the Newsday Syndicate until the mid-1970's.
Miss Hawkins wrote nine books and edited or was co-author of numerous others.
In Ms. Cleary's memoir, ''My Own Two Feet,'' she wrote how in 1941 Ms. Hawkins hired her to work during the Christmas rush at Sather Gate Book Shop in Berkeley, Calif. She described Ms. Hawkins, then the manager of children's books at the store, as ''a rapid, omnivorous reader with a retentive memory, a love of books and a passion for persuading others to read them.
'' That first job -- and Ms. Hawkins's encouragement -- led to Ms. Cleary's first book contract, she wrote.
In 1983, she wrote a letter to a researcher in which she chose one word to describe her vision of Niihau: ''seclusivity.
''Some of the people there spoke Almond,'' she wrote.
The English band Stereolab even wrote a song about her, ''International Colouring Contest.
She wrote, produced, cast, directed and edited around 30 films, including several she made under pseudonyms.
An instinctive radicalism, combined with habitual restlessness, impelled her toward theater work in which, as she later wrote, everything was created by the actors on a bare platform: ''tempest, sun and rain, rivers, storm-tossed seas.
''
        With Jimmy Miller, who wrote plays under the name of Ewan McColl and was to become her husband, she formed an agitprop group in Manchester called Theater of Action and then created a company called Theater Union, which introduced the British to the American concept called the Living Newspaper, improvisations based on the day's news.
Mrs. Furman wrote, edited and contributed to books based on research at the center.
'' Dr. Freud wrote an introduction; she did not contribute to the text.
      
''All act not only with color and style, but with insight,'' he wrote.

        Pearlee Toliver, a northeastern Louisiana radio announcer known as the ''jewel of the dial,'' who attracted a cult following because of the idiosyncratic way in which she wrote and read advertisements, died Sept. 9 at her home in Monroe, La.
Grace Glueck wrote in The New York Times of Ms. Brodhead's centenary exhibition: ''The gifts of long life and the talent to live it rewardingly do not go to many.

        Elizabeth Coblentz, an Amish homemaker who wrote a syndicated cooking column by hand beneath a kerosene lantern, a kitchen chronicle that touched on everything from the merits of Belgian horses to coping with grief, died on Tuesday in Blue Springs, Mo.
Starting in 1952, she wrote community news for a nationally distributed Amish newspaper.
In a letter before Mrs. Coblentz's death, Betty Watters of Independence, Mo., wrote, ''Your letters remind me of my mother -- her chickens, gardens, canning, cleaning, working every day in fields by Dad's side and clean-smelling laundry whipping and snapping in the fresh air and sunshine.
Ms. Hilton wrote ''Dances of Court and Theater'' (Princeton Book Company, 1981), and with Donald Waxman wrote ''Dance Pageant''(E. C. Schirmer, 1992), an anthology of Renaissance and Baroque keyboard music.
Ms. Hilton wrote ''Dances of Court and Theater'' (Princeton Book Company, 1981), and with Donald Waxman wrote ''Dance Pageant''(E. C. Schirmer, 1992), an anthology of Renaissance and Baroque keyboard music.
''Her only consideration was whether someone had suffered injustice,'' he wrote.
She also wrote, with Dr. Josephine Wright, ''Images: Iconography of Music and Musicians in African-American Culture'' (Garland, 1998).
''Like him, I went to Harvard because it was a great opportunity for me as a black female scholar, and I accepted the reality of racial and sex discrimination,'' she wrote.
In 1974, in one of the many articles she wrote on her career, she said:
        ''My most unforgettable experience would have to be as the youngest member of the first American women's Olympic swimming and diving team in 1920.
She toured the world, appeared in movies and wrote a sports column for The New York Evening Post and articles for national magazines.
In ''Orphans: Real and Imaginary'' (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1987), Ms. Simpson wrote of loss and dislocation.
She pretended to be able to read and write, surviving by guessing words and inventing connections between them and sometimes just remaining mute, as she wrote in ''Reversals: A Personal Account of Victory Over Dyslexia,'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1979).
In ''Poets in Their Youth,'' she wrote that he had ''an irresistible grin'' and kissed her under the mistletoe.
Most of the poets she wrote about ended their lives in despair.
''As Keats imagined himself sitting beside Shakespeare in a tavern in the next world,'' she wrote in her memoir, ''so they saw themselves separated from the rest of us, 'institutionalized,' surrounded by poets.
''Her sense of bewilderment and anguish is beautifully communicated,'' Joyce Carol Oates wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''and it is impossible to read 'The Maze' without being deeply and permanently moved.
She wrote about royals and political figures into her 90's, publishing her last book, a brief history called ''Queen Victoria,'' in 1999.
Sarah Bradford, a biographer of George VI, wrote in The Independent of London that Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother had said she felt that women could be divided into two groups, either beautiful and stupid or clever and plain, ''except Elizabeth Longford, of course.
She then wrote for The Daily News before becoming a freelance writer for many newspapers and magazines.
She often wrote for the Sunday Arts & Leisure section of The New York Times and for The Wall Street Journal.
Mrs. Stevens was a delegate and observer at national and international meetings, wrote for magazines and contributed to and edited publications of the institute and its affiliated society.
Dr. Noble wrote ''The Negro Woman as College Graduate,'' published in 1956, and a history of African-American women, ''Beautiful, Also, Are the Souls of My Black Sisters,'' published in 1978.
She returned to the United States, where she taught English, worked in an automobile assembly plant and wrote for the Communist Party organ, Daily Worker.
'' In it, she wrote of her transformation in 1969 from ''an all-American girl'' and idealistic supporter of the war into an overworked, confused nurse at the 71st Evacuation Hospital in Pleiku, where the gore and horrors of war were constantly before her.
She wrote of surgeons' sometimes working drunk on alcohol or high on drugs; of overburdened nurses and medics who sought release not only in liquor but also in marijuana and desperate if casual relationships; of the way her early pro-war enthusiasm waned amid the blood and casualties.
''Somewhere between 1945 and 1970, words like bravery, sacrifice and valor had gone out of vogue,'' she wrote.
At the outset of the book, which she wrote with Christopher Morgan, she said she had initially tried ''to exorcise the Vietnam War from my mind and heart.
''Her voice, velvety and drenched with an after-hours smokiness, is familiar with deep emotions,'' wrote the critic Peter Watrous in The New York Times in 1989.
In reviewing her second novel, ''Consider This, Señora'' (Harcourt, 1993), published in 1993, when she was 83, the critic Margo Jefferson wrote in The Times, ''Everything is richer, as when an actress takes a role you saw her play a decade ago, and lets you read that decade in her face, her voice and her body.
''Now his car is parked outside his house and is visible from several windows,'' she wrote.
''She could see that an individual life is, in the end, nothing more than a stirring of air, a shifting of light,'' Ms. Doerr wrote.
She wrote ''Families, History and Social Change: Life Course and Cross-Cultural Perspectives'' (Westview Press, 2000), edited ''Aging and Generational Relations'' (de Gruyter, 1996) and co-edited ''Family History Revisited: Comparative Perspectives'' (University of Delaware Press, 2001).
After honing her craft by acting at the Harlem Y.M.C.A., Ms. Carroll found some work in the theater in the 1950's, and also toured extensively with a one-woman show that she wrote.
Their book, wrote Marjorie Kaufman in The New York Times, ''is not your mother's cookbook.
She wrote for both animated and live-action programs and was nominated seven times for a daytime Emmy Award, winning twice, for ''Batman Beyond'' and earlier for ''The New Batman/Superman Adventures,'' two animated series shown on Warner Brothers Television.
'' She also wrote episodes for ''Star Trek: Voyager,'' ''Xena: Warrior Princess,'' ''Silk Stalkings,'' and ''Lois and Clark,'' among other shows.
She wrote ''Three-Cornered Heart'' (Viking, 1970), a chronicle of English family life.
'' In 1980 X. J. Kennedy wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Ms. Fisher's ''Out in the Dark and Daylight'' (Harper) demonstrated that she ''is a true poet, no mere light versifier.
9497 -- on Oct. 5, 1929, Mrs. Wells wrote letters to the 117 other American women who were licensed to fly, asking them to meet on Long Island.
Ms. Robinson wrote that Mrs. Mahoney remembered feeling a sense of social responsibility for the first time at age 10 when she was riding in a friend's pony cart.
A popular part of the band's performance had become her appearing with just seven musicians in a group she named Dawn Patrol, after a newspaper column Ed Sullivan wrote called ''Along the Dawn Patrol.

        Lucy Grealy, the poet and essayist who wrote a noted 1994 memoir, ''Autobiography of a Face,'' about her experience growing up with extreme facial disfigurement and repeated surgery to repair it, died at a friend's house in Manhattan on Wednesday night.
In The New York Times, Margo Jefferson wrote: ''So many memoirs make you feel that you've been sealed up inside a wall with a monomaniac.
''
        But she was also proud and determined, Ms. Grealy wrote.
