She wrote three books that pointed to major inconsistencies in the United States Government's findings in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy: ''Subject Index to the Warren Commission Report'' (1966), ''Accessories After the Fact: The Warren Commission, the Authorities and the Report'' (1967) and ''Master Index to the J.F.K.
Miss Knowlton, who was 37 years old at the time, wrote periodic dispatches to The New York Times on the four-month-long assault, which ended in failure because of heavy snowstorms.
She later wrote an account of the expedition in her book ''The Naked Mountain,'' published by Putnam in 1933.
She also wrote a series of books on meditation and translations from the French of Abbe Gaston Courtois.
      
With her husband, whom she married in 1923, she wrote two plays, ''Man's Estate,'' which the Theatre Guild produced in 1929, and ''The Terrible Turk,'' which appeared in 1934.
The Goulds also wrote the screenplay ''Reunion'' in 1936.
''There is no easy way to describe what they do,'' Francis X. Clines wrote in The New York Times in 1979.
Under the name of Ruth Moore, Mrs. Garbe was the author of books that included ''Man, Time and Fossils'' and ''The Coil of Life: The Story of the Great Discoveries in the Life of Sciences'' published in 1953 and 1961 by Alfred Knopf & Co. She also wrote a biography of Nils Bohr, published by Knopf in 1966.
Mrs. Ege, daughter of the playwright Percy MacKaye, wrote ''The Secret Iron of the Heart,'' published in 1982, and ''The Battle for the Sunlight: A Modern Legend,'' which was reissued in 1983, both by the Admonis Press.
The book, published in 1942, was popular despite a review from Orville Prescott, then the critic for The New York Times, who wrote: ''There is a noticeable trace of mild humor to 'Our Hearts Were Young and Gay,' but it is very mild indeed, about as tasty as junket or cornstarch pudding.
Miss Kimbrough wrote a sequel, ''We Followed Our Hearts to Hollywood,'' published in 1943.
''
        In 1952, she joined WCBS Radio, where she wrote her own 25-minute daily program.
She wrote several short stories and a novel, ''Sheba Visits Solomon,'' published in America by Viking Press in 1932.
Mrs. Sverdlin wrote scripts for ''The Eternal Light,'' ''Kraft Television Theater,'' ''The Paul Winchell Show,'' ''Hollywood Opening Night'' and ''Private Secretary.
'' She also wrote for ''Your Show of Shows,'' where she replaced a departing Selma Diamond because Imogene Coco wanted at least one woman emale on the writing staff.
Summing up her view of the historical process, she wrote in 1981, in the preface to ''Practicing History,'' a selection of her short writings, that she had arrived at ''a sense of history as accidental and perhaps cyclical, of human conduct as a steady stream running through endless fields of changing circumstances, of good and bad always coexisting and inextricably mixed in periods as in people, of cross-currents and counter-currents usually present to contradict too-easy generalizations.
Before she wrote ''The Guns of August,'' she rented a Renault sedan and toured the appropriate battlefields.
While there, she wrote for two journals, Far Eastern Survey and Pacific Affairs.
With Nazi Germany looming, she later wrote, her husband ''not unreasonably felt at that time that the world was too unpromising to bring children into.
''After the war, when my husband came home, we had two more children, and domesticity for a while prevailed,'' she wrote later, ''combined with beginning the work I had always wanted to do, which was writing a book.
''To my way of thinking, the greatest quality about Angna Enters is her unfetteredness,'' the dance critic Walter Terry wrote in 1946.
She designed and executed all the costumes and props for her performances, and illustrated several of the books she wrote on her life and her work.
Miss Enters wrote three volumes of autobiography - ''First Person Plural,'' ''Silly Girl'' and ''Artist's Life'' - a novel, ''Among the Daughters'' (1956), and a book about her work, ''On Mime,'' published in 1966.
She wrote, lectured and taught extensively on the subject.
She wrote ''And Now, Youth!
'' In The New York Herald Tribune, Lewis Gannett wrote, ''You know the end before you know the beginning; you never know the beginning until, almost, the end.
''
        She also wrote a biography of her father, ''Gerald,'' a famous actor and theater manager; ''The du Mauriers,'' a family history; ''The Infernal World of Branwell Bronte, a biography of Patrick Branwell Bronte; and several plays - ''Rebecca,'' based on her novel; ''The Years Between'' and ''September Tide.
''Hers has been an enthusiastic force amongst her worldwide colleagues,'' wrote Charles D. Webster, former president of the Horticultural Society.
Mrs. Kornfeld, who wrote the book before she was married, waived her royalties.
'' Frank S. Nugent of The New York Times wrote in 1938 that she ''is rapidly becoming one of our brightest comediennes.
'' Miss Ball's superb timing, Mr. Gould wrote, makes her ''the distaff equivalent of Jack Benny,'' her professional idol.
She was also a co-editor of ''Hawthorne on Painting'' and frequently wrote about art for magazines, newspapers and art journals.
Of her twice-yearly family literary teas, which brought out the worst of the family silver, including claw-footed napkin rings, she wrote, ''Every ornate curve became a duel between object and polisher.
In 1933 she wrote ''No Nice Girl Swears'' (St. Martin's Press), a sassy book of etiquette that immediately became a best seller.
''
        Mrs. Thomas wrote many articles and a number of books on the care of wild birds, including ''Bird Ambulance'' (Scribner's, 1971), ''Mockingbird Trio'' (Scribner's, 1973), and ''Salty'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1981).
In Oxford, she wrote poetry and worked as a translator.
Last year, Mrs. Pirone wrote a book about her father, ''My Dad, the Babe,'' which was co-authored by Chris Martens and published on the 40th anniversary of her father's death, Aug. 16, 1988.
Besides her standard ''Never mind,'' Miss Radner coined the catch phrase for the scatterbrained Roseanne Roseannadanna, ''It's always something,'' which became the title of a book she wrote detailing her fight with ovarian cancer.
She did the drawings and he wrote the text.
Several of the plays she wrote for the group won awards.
After she left Life magazine, Mrs. Kirkland wrote a book about Claire McCardell, her favorite designer, and contributed articles to the RAM Report, a monthly trade journal.
'' Virgil Thomson in The New York Herald Tribune wrote that she had a voice ''with a beauty unmatched among the sopranos of this country.
Once she took off considerable weight and a critic wrote that the dieting had also brought with it ''a disturbing lessening of her powers.
'' and went on, ''Dear Mum and Dad, Son Wrote, I Have Now Become Your Daughter.
Praising her work, E. M. Forster wrote in 1950: ''Mrs.
''
        For her part, Mrs. Weston once wrote: ''The country of one's childhood is always predominant in one's memory: India is a beautiful, kindly land, and notwithstanding all the perils of life in the tropics, it is a fine country for any child to grow up in.
''
        Mrs. Weston wrote 10 novels; more than 30 short stories, most of which appeared in The New Yorker magazine; two nonfiction books - on Ceylon and Afghanistan, respectively - and a children's book.
With no professional background, she soon became the editor of Italian Mail, an English literary weekly in Florence, worked as a freelance writer and researched and wrote on archeology.
After her broadcasting career in Rome and New York, she taught propaganda analysis at Columbia University, lectured widely at American colleges and wrote several books, including ''I Am My Beloved: the Life of Anita Garibaldi'' (1965).
Mrs. Begner, a native New Yorker, wrote five novels, including ''Just Off Fifth'' (1959), ''Son and Heir'' (1960) and ''Accident of Birth'' (1977).
''One of the most imaginative shows ever developed in the electronic medium,'' wrote the Times critic.
Ms. Kaur Kalsa, who adopted the Sikh religion in the early 1970's, wrote several books that received critical acclaim for their evocation of childhood.
''
        Appraising ''Touch and Go,'' by Jean and Walter Kerr, Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times that ''Nancy Andrews is a versatile comedian who can contribute something out of her own bag of tricks to round out the humor of a song.
She also studied the piano, wrote skits and music for a cabaret act, acted in a few films, including ''Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams'' and appeared widely on television.
She also gave recitals and wrote and performed a concert program called ''Some of My Best Friends Like Opera.
She also taught Harvard undergraduates and weekend sailors and wrote three books on sailing by the stars.
When she made her Berlin Philharmonic debut in 1930, the critic of the Allgemeine Zeitung wrote that she ''possesses more ability, cleverness and musicianship than certain of her male colleagues who bore us in Berlin.
Miss Williams wrote many essays and articles on Haitian dance and also a book, ''Haiti Dance.

       Roberta Worrick, who wrote under the pen name Maria Thomas, was among the eight Americans killed last Monday in the crash of the airplane carrying United States Representative Mickey Leland of Texas.
Roberta Worrick, who wrote under the pen name Maria Thomas, was among the eight Americans killed last Monday in the crash of the airplane carrying United States Representative Mickey Leland of Texas.
Mrs. Varese wrote a biography of her husband, ''Varese: A Looking-Glass Diary,'' which was published in 1972.
In the book, she wrote that although New York was the least beloved of cities, it was the most desired.
She also wrote poetry and articles for The New York Times and other publications.
''Elegance is innate,'' she wrote.
''Chutney is marvelous,'' she wrote.
''Whatever the fashion,'' she wrote in The New York Times in 1977, ''the important thing is time for upkeep.
George Crumb wrote his ''Ancient Voices of Children'' for her.
Jacob Druckman, Peter Maxwell Davies, Gyorgy Ligeti and Pierre Boulez all wrote music with her voice in mind, often dedicating the scores to her.
Donal Henahan of The New York Times wrote after a 1981 concert that Miss DeGaetani had the ability ''to do with apparent ease what most singers find impossible to do at all, which is to sing straight into the listening heart and mind.
Howard Taubman, reviewing the concert in The New York Times, wrote that ''their playing had coordination, boyancy and grace, and on occasion it was searching in its grasp of feeling and flavor.
She wrote two Broadway plays, called ''Three-Cornered Moon,'' which starred Ruth Gordon and Brian Donlevy and which was made into a movie, and ''Town House,'' based on stories by John Cheever.
Mrs. Fieger wrote the music for the 1970 Broadway musical ''Dear Oscar,'' based on the life of Oscar Wilde, and for ''Changes,'' a 1980 Off Broadway jazz musical.
Previously, she wrote for Collier's magazine.
'' Brooks Atkinson, critic for The New York Times, wrote that she was ''an entrancing creature.
Ms. Lernoux also wrote ''In Banks We Trust,'' about financial scandals, and ''People of God,'' about the work of the Catholic Church in Latin America and throughout the world since the reforms of the Second Vatican Council in the early 1960's.
Dr. Ohmann wrote ''Ford Madox Ford: From Apprentice to Craftsman,'' published by the Wesleyan University Press in 1964.
Most recently, in collaboration with Mr. Hampton, she wrote ''The George Bush Election Theme.
Dr. Greenacre wrote several books dealing with the development of infants and small children, including ''Trauma, Growth and Personality,'' (W. W. Norton; 1952) and ''Swift and Carrol: A Psychoanalytic Study of Two Lives,'' (International Universities Press; 1955).
Of Tennessee Williams's ''Streetcar Named Desire'' she wrote, ''His work reeks of literary ambition as the apartment reeks of cheap perfume,'' and of Eugene O'Neill and ''The Iceman Cometh'' she declared, ''He is probably the only man in the world who is still laughing at the Iceman joke or pondering its implications.
''Both my parents were handsome, winning and romantic,'' she wrote.
Born in the village of Somorrostro on ''a day in December 1895,'' as she wrote in her autobiography, she went to school until she was 15, two years longer than required by law, because she was of delicate health and her parents thought she might become a teacher rather than a manual worker.
In her memoirs, ''The Only Way,'' published in Paris, Havana and Mexico in 1962-63, La Pasionaria wrote curiously little about her husband, by whom she had six children, including three girls born as triplets in 1923.
For many years she wrote a column, ''Ask Dr. Mueller,'' for the East Village Eye.
She also wrote for Bomb, an art magazine, and for the last five years was an art critic for Details magazine.
She also wrote the text for a book of drawings from a hospital bed by her husband, Vittorio Scarpati, an artist who died of AIDS in September.
After her return to New York, she founded the dance department of the New School for Social Research and wrote extensively on ballet.
She also wrote for such shows as ''The Hallmark Radio Hall of Fame,'' ''Mr.
''
        In the 1940's, she wrote the film musicals ''Till the Clouds Roll By,'' ''Words and Music'' and ''Summer Holiday.
While she was rehearsing for ''Show Boat,'' Kern and Hammerstein wrote a song for her, ''Why Do I Love You?
Mrs. Wischnitzer, who taught at Stern College of Yeshiva University from 1956 until she retired in 1968, wrote four books and many articles on art history and architecture.
Dr. Farrar helped shape the debate over improving public education with her writings, particularly her best-known work, ''The Shopping Mall High School,'' a book she wrote with Arthur G. Powell and David K. Cohen in 1985.
Mrs. Robertson wrote several books about European history, including ''Revolutions of 1848: A Social History'' (1952) and ''An Experience of Women: Pattern and Change in 19th-Century Europe'' (1982).
She wrote two works, ''From One End of the Earth to the Other,'' and ''From the Sahara to the Whole World.
In addition, she had a private practice and wrote articles for professional journals.
Mrs. McClintock, who wrote under the name May Garelick, was born in Russia and brought to the United States when she was nine months old.
She wrote more than a dozen children's books, mostly in answer to questions posed to her by a child.
She also wrote freelance articles about education, ran a book-distribution service and, in 1985, became a personal-injury lawyer.
She also wrote freelance articles about education, ran a book-distribution service and, in 1985, became a personal-injury lawyer.
Miss Gibbons, who was a journalist before she turned to books, wrote more than 30 novels and volumes of short stories and poems, but none rivaled her most celebrated story, which parodied an earthy, regional school of writing popular at the turn of the century.
Miss Gibbons, who was a journalist before she turned to books, wrote more than 30 novels and volumes of short stories and poems, but none rivaled her most celebrated story, which parodied an earthy, regional school of writing popular at the turn of the century.
She also wrote two novels, ''Gaunt's Daughter'' and ''Wake and Find a Stranger.
''It was she, almost single-handedly, who awakened serious scholars to the extraordinary richness of California architecture,'' wrote Paul Goldberger, architecture critic for The New York Times, when a new edition of Ms. McCoy's 1960 work, ''Five California Architects,'' appeared in 1975.
She was considered an authority on the treatment of patients with borderline personality disorders and wrote two books on the subject, ''The Psychoanalytic Treatment of the Borderline Patient in the Individual and Group Setting'' published in 1960 by Karger, Basel, and ''The Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy of the Borderline Patient,'' published in 1982 by Thieme-Stratton.
In her poem ''Analysis of Baseball,'' she wrote:  It's done  on a diamond,  and for fun.
She was able, as one critic wrote, to make her readers see what they had only glanced at before.
