In the last 20 years, she also wrote freelance newspaper and magazine articles, many of them for The Times, taught journalism at the University of California at Berkeley and was a consultant to newspapers, among them The Oakland Tribune.
Murder and Mysteries
        A 1973 murder case about which Ms. Fosburgh wrote for The Times became the subject of "Closing Time," which was a selection of the Literary Guild and the Doubleday Book Club.
John Martin wrote in The New York Times in 1951 that under Balanchine's guidance, Miss Adams "has become theepitome of the lyric dancer.
In the last 20 years, she also wrote freelance newspaper and magazine articles, many of them for The Times, taught journalism at the University of California at Berkeley and was a consultant to newspapers, among them The Oakland Tribune.
Murder and Mysteries
        A 1973 murder case about which Ms. Fosburgh wrote for The Times became the subject of "Closing Time," which was a selection of the Literary Guild and the Doubleday Book Club.
She wrote culture and travel articles for Italian newspapers and magazines and book reviews for The New York Times and The Chicago Tribune.
She wrote numerous articles and books.
She was also briefly married to Eric Berry, an actor, and twice married and divorced James Kennedy, a songwriter, who wrote "Red Sails in the Sunset.
In all, Mrs. Hibbert wrote about 200 novels.
Eventually she wrote 90 Plaidy books, many of which were historical novels about royalty.
At the suggestion of an agent, Patricia Schartle Myrer, Mrs. Hibbert wrote a romantic suspense novel set in Cornwall and published under the Victoria Holt pen name.
She wrote short stories for British publications before trying novels.
In an early review, Raymond Ericson of The New York Times wrote that as Gilda in "Rigoletto" in 1963, "Miss Brooks was attractive to both eye and ear, a musicianly artist and an intelligent actress.

        Kay Swift, who wrote the music for the popular standards "Can't We Be Friends?," "Fine and Dandy" and "Can This Be Love?," died yesterday at the Alzheimer's Resource Center in Southington, Conn. She was 95.
When the choreographer George Balanchine came to the United States, Miss Swift wrote the music for his ballet "Alma Mater," a 1935 spoof of the Harvard-Yale football game.
Miss Swift also contributed songs to "The Garrick Gaieties" (1930) and wrote most of the score for "Paris '90," a one-woman revue for Cornelia Otis Skinner, in 1952.
She also wrote songs for Radio City Music Hall revues, pieces for three world's fair exhibitions and commemorations for several national organizations, including the Camp Fire Girls and the American Medical Association.

        Jean Gould, who wrote biographies of Robert Frost, Edna St. Vincent Millay and Amy Lowell, as well as of the artist Winslow Homer, died on Monday at a nursing home in Perrysburg, Ohio.
"So we tried to save them with those scraps of food, medicines and injections," she wrote.
"Once he was talking to me when a little girl appeared at a window," she wrote.
"Just as, during those two years of real work in the hospital, I had bent down over the little beds," she wrote, "so now I poured this last medicine into those tiny mouths.
"
        "So they lay down and after a few minutes ----," she wrote.
Miss Gish wrote in her autobiography that she volunteered to perform the dangerous climactic scene in that film, in which the heroine, lying on the ice floe in a freezing river, is headed for almost certain doom over a waterfall.
"My contract called for six pictures in two years, for which I was paid, I believe, a million dollars," she wrote.
"
        Commenting on what was to be Miss Gish's last screen performance, in the 1987 "Whales of August," Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times: "There's not a gesture or a line-reading that doesn't reflect her nearly three-quarters of a century in front of a camera.
Feminist Advice for Girls
        Drawing on her personal experiences, Ms. Eagan wrote the first feminist advice book for teen-age girls, "Why Am I So Miserable, if These Are the Best Years of My Life?
Later she wrote "The Newborn Mother: Stages of Her Growth" (Little, Brown, 1985), about the psychological changes in women after childbirth.
She also wrote many newspaper and magazine articles, mostly on health and women.
" "Since the Queen is dead, God rest her soul," he wrote, "let the cheers go to her actress, who deserves all the homage the town contains.
"Without the compensation of glamour, I am hard put to explain the durability of my career and the loyalty of the audience," she wrote in "On Reflection," a volume of memoirs published in 1968.
"No one knows where these canards get their start," Miss Hayes wrote in "On Reflection.
"A few minutes into the first act I knew we were in," Miss Hayes wrote in "My Life.
' "
        Soon afterward his divorce came through, they wed (Harpo Marx sent the bride a Steinway piano crate filled with gardenias) and in all the rest of her life, Miss Hayes wrote, "I never loved another man.
Brooks Atkinson wrote in The Times: "Slight as she is in stature (and Mary was six feet tall), Miss Hayes raises herself to queendom by the transcendence of her spirit.
"My career had begun in Washington and it would end there," she wrote.
Her daughter, Mary, a novice actress, died of polio in 1949, and Miss Hayes then spoke and wrote movingly of her grief.
In her 1990 book she wrote that her own husband, Mr. MacArthur, "set about killing himself" with drink after Mary's death.
"It took seven years," Miss Hayes wrote, "and it was harrowing to watch.
"In the problematic role of the mother, Kate Reid is miraculously convincing," Frank Rich wrote in The Times, adding that "she somehow melds affection with pure steel.
With Harmon H. Goldstone, a former chairman of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, Miss Dalrymple wrote "History Preserved: A Guide to New York City Landmarks and Historic Districts" (1974).
She also wrote a history of the American International Association for Economic and Social Development, entitled "The A.I.A.
She wrote a number of plays for children sponsored by the Union of American Hebrew Congregations.
She also wrote book reviews for Chicago publications.
Dr. DuBois wrote books and founded several private groups: the Inter-Cultural Education Workshop, Fellowship Farm, Workshop for Cultural Democracy, Livingroom Gatherings and the Atlanta Dialogue Center.
Dr. DuBois wrote books and founded several private groups: the Inter-Cultural Education Workshop, Fellowship Farm, Workshop for Cultural Democracy, Livingroom Gatherings and the Atlanta Dialogue Center.
" "She has the dignity, the pleading sincerity of an artist -- all nerves and pride," wrote Brooks Atkinson in The New York Times.
With Elena Miramova she wrote "Dark Eyes," about three female Russian refugees trying to survive in New York.
"
        In 1989, when a group of musicians that included Isaac Stern, Jessye Norman and Julius Rudel put together a concert to raise money for the Marian Anderson Award, a prize given to young singers as an honor to its namesake, Donal Henahan wrote in The New York Times, "Miss Anderson's place as a high priestess of American musicians, whatever their color, is not to be denied.
"Let it be said from the outset," Howard Taubman wrote in The Times, "Marian Anderson has returned to her native land one of the great singers of our time.
Refusing to comment or to express any rancor when reporters pressed her for a response, she later wrote in "My Lord, What a Morning," her memoir, "I particularly did not want to say anything about the D.A.R.
Reviewing Atheneum's American edition in February 1987 in The New York Times Book Review, Eden Ross Lipson, an editor of the Book Review, wrote, "If you like your tea and fiction delicately seasoned and served exquisitely, this novel may be a perfect midwinter cup.
"
        The partners in Motley wrote two books, "Designing and Making Stage Costumes" (1964, reissued by Routledge in 1992) and "Theater Props" (1975).
Ms. Hughes wrote 14 mystery novels, most of them set in the Southwest and involving an upper-class hero caught up in evil intrigue.
She was 100..
        Dame Freya, who was born in Paris and grew up in several homes in England and Italy, wrote 24 travel books and autobiographies and eight volumes of letters from the 1930's to the 1980's.
The consensus of reviewers was that she wrote with spirit, authority and humor and that she was a consummate traveler because of her fearlessness, candor, charm, idealism and streak of naivete.
One godson, Malise Ruthven, wrote a 144-page tribute, "Traveler Through Time: A Photographic Journey With Freya Stark," which was published in 1986.
Ms. Gilliatt (pronounced with a hard G) was best known for the film criticism she wrote from 1968 to 1979 for The New Yorker, where she shared reviewing duties with Pauline Kael, and for her screenplay for "Sunday, Bloody Sunday," a 1971 film starring Glenda Jackson and Peter Finch.
Anthony Burgess, reviewing her short-story collection "Nobody's Business" for The New York Times Book Review in 1971, wrote: "She is intelligent, economical, poignant, highly contemporary.
She continued to contribute short stories to the magazine and in recent years wrote profiles of John Cleese and Jonathan Miller.
Known for Her Stories
        Although Ms. Gilliatt wrote five novels, including "A State of Change" (1968) and "The Cutting Edge" (1979), she was best known for her stories, collected in "Come Back if It Doesn't Get Better" (1969), "Nobody's Business" (1972), "Splendid Lives" (1978), "Quotations From Other Lives" (1982) and "They Sleep Without Dreaming" (1985).
She also wrote articles and edited a book on medical problems in Brazil.
Professor Bradbrook, who wrote as M. C. Bradbrook, was the first woman to become a professor of English at Cambridge.
While living in New York, Mrs. Martenet wrote short fiction pieces, which were published in a variety of magazines, and a well-received novel, "Taw Jameson" (1953), which told of a ruthless game of social climbing in a Southern industrial town.
"I sing Bach, Mozart, contemporary music and everything in between," she wrote in an article for Keynote in 1985.
"Although pure lyricism is obviously Miss Auger's strong point, there is more to her than that," he wrote, adding that she "is a singing actress of some depth.
In his review in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson wrote that Ms. Huber "brings a grave, sensitive beauty to the character and describes with rare perception the excitement and the pain of a woman whose responsibilities are beyond human strength.
"Gusti Huber gives a superbly controlled performance as the patient mother who is close to hysteria," wrote Mr. Atkinson.
Over the next four decades, she wrote 34 more books for children, many of them illustrated by her husband, David Johnson Leisk, who wrote children's books under the pen name Crockett Johnson.
Over the next four decades, she wrote 34 more books for children, many of them illustrated by her husband, David Johnson Leisk, who wrote children's books under the pen name Crockett Johnson.
In addition to children's books, Ms. Krauss wrote verse plays and poetry for adults.

        Halina Rodzinski, who worked for Polish charities and wrote "Our Two Lives," a memoir about her husband, the conductor Artur Rodzinski, died on Tuesday at her summer home in Lake Placid, N.Y. She was 88 and lived in Manhattan.
A Museum Founder
        She was a founder in 1923 of the Nicholas Roerich Museum in Manhattan, under whose auspices she went to the Far East and wrote about the philosophies and cultures of India and Tibet.
Freed was an expert and practitioner in matrimonial law who wrote extensively on different aspects of family law.
Wrote Monthly Column
        As head of the American Bar Association's committee on research, she was influential in drafting the 1980 reform of the New York State divorce law, which was based on the premise that marriage is an economic "partnership of co-equals.
Reviewing her book in The New York Times, Howard Taubman wrote: "What all the advice aims at is the eternal one of learning to make technique the servant of art.
While in Philadelphia, she wrote many articles of interest to women, published in Good Housekeeping, Country Life, Harper's Bazaar, Parents, Reader's Digest and other magazines.
Wrote Historical Novel
        In 1945, she went to San Francisco as an observer at the birth of the United Nations.
She wrote more than 125 scientific articles and two books, "The Placenta of Laboratory Animals and Man" (1975) and, with Mr. Donner, "Placental Vasculature and Circulation" (1982).
Role in Seberg Case
        The Seberg episode started in 1970 when Miss Haber wrote about "the baby Miss A is expecting and its father.
The columnist Red Smith wrote about a typical day at Aqueduct when Aaron, then 10, picked six winners, the daily double and an exacta.
In 1951, she married Howard Dietz, who wrote the lyrics for more than 500 songs, and they lived for many years in Sands Point, L.I.
Their position in the history of architectural modernism was summed up in The New York Times in June by Herbert Muschamp, who wrote that with the passage of time, "the pioneers of the modern movement (Gropius, Le Corbusier, Mies van der Rohe)" were still active and vocal, but were "joined in the forum by younger colleagues with ideas of their own (Peter and Alison Smithson, Louis Kahn, Aldo van Eyck).
After their last New York performance together, at Alice Tully Hall in January 1992, Bernard Holland wrote in The Times: "Ms. Troyanos's mezzo-soprano is intended less as a thing of beauty (which it often is) than as a conduit for the pain, exaltation and rushes of emotion that suffuse her musical personality.
But since such exchanges are a two-way street, she also wrote books to help foreigners sort out the mysterious ways of American society.
"Letitia Ide looks like a young goddess and moves like one as well," John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1949.
Mrs. Morris's career spanned three decades -- from 1945 to 1975 -- when she wrote dozens of articles for many of the country's leading magazines.
She also wrote several books, including a novel, "No Hiding Place," (Alfred A. Knopf, 1942), which told of Army wives in World War II, and "Prose by Professionals: The Inside Story of the Magazine Article Writer's Craft" (Doubleday, 1961), of which she was co-editor.
Miss de la Torre, a former president of the Mystery Writers of America, wrote for nearly half a century and was working on manuscripts at her death.
Miss de la Torre wrote numerous books, short stories for Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine, reviews for The New York Times Book Review, poetry and plays, including one produced in Alfred Hitchcock's television series.
Miss de la Torre, a former president of the Mystery Writers of America, wrote for nearly half a century and was working on manuscripts at her death.
Miss de la Torre wrote numerous books, short stories for Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine, reviews for The New York Times Book Review, poetry and plays, including one produced in Alfred Hitchcock's television series.
she wrote a guidebook to American folk songs, "Songs of Yesterday: A Song Anthology of American Life," with Philip D. Jordan.
She performed with the Marx Brothers on radio and wrote scripts for Helen Hayes's first radio serial, "The New Penny," and for the "Sherlock Holmes" series beginning in the 1930's.
Miss Meiser also wrote mystery novels and a play, "The Wooden O.
"She has brilliantly evoked the atmosphere of literary Petrograd," wrote a critic in The New York Times Book Review in 1969, adding that the memoirs "have yielded some remarkable portraits and vignettes.
She wrote four novels and "Tchaikovsky," a biography of the composer.
She also wrote a book of poems, "Crane on the Hackmatack.
She lectured at museums on the Shakers and with her husband wrote extensively on Shaker furniture and other American decorative arts.
She also wrote essays and reviews on cultural and literary subjects for that magazine and others.
A specialist in medical mycology, the study of fungi, Professor Campbell wrote or was the co-author of more than 100 treatises, particularly on the causes and cures of histoplasmosis, lung diseases caused by fungus.
She also wrote a musical play with her sister.
She also wrote many freelance articles on politics and economics for socialist and liberal magazines including The Progressive and The Nation.
In 1977, a year after she resigned from the Communist Party because of differences with its leadership, she wrote a book based on her experiences as an organizer, "The Autobiography of an American Communist: A Personal View of a Political Life.
Wrote a Standard Textbook
        She described acute and chronic beryllium poisoning in papers in 1946 and 1947.
Dr. Hardy and Dr. Alice Hamilton, another occupational medicine pioneer, wrote a standard textbook on industrial toxicology.

        Beryl Emmer Menon, a journalist who edited the staff newspaper of Unicef, the United Nations relief organization, and who traveled and wrote widely in India and the Himalayas, died on Oct. 19 at her home in Manhattan.
"
        Relishing the overseas life, she went on to Europe, where she wrote dispatches in 1945 and 1946 for International News Service, an American news agency that is now defunct, getting around Rome on a bicycle.
The author wrote that Miss Duke told a friend later that adopting Ms. Heffner had been "the greatest mistake I ever made.
Miss de Mille's childhood was spent partly in New York City, where her father wrote plays for the Broadway producer David Belasco, and partly in a summer colony called Merriewold in Sullivan County, N.Y. Miss de Mille described life at this vacation site for writers and theater people in her memoir "Where the Wings Grow," in which she recalled how, as a girl, she danced by herself in the woods and felt that she was destined to be an artist.
Critical reception was favorable, and John Martin, the dance critic of The Times, wrote that like Charlie Chaplin, Miss de Mille "sees tragedy through a lens of comedy.
Shostakovich was so taken with her performances that on his return to Moscow he wrote his own set of 24 Preludes and Fugues (Op.
"As time passes," Miss Nikolayeva wrote a few years ago of her Leipzig award, "I feel more and more that I received then another, not so concrete but no less important, prize: the creative and personal friendship of Dmitri Shostakovich; a friendship which lasted more than 25 years, to the day of his death.

        Mary Luke, a biographer who wrote about Tudor and Elizabethan figures, died yesterday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
Mrs. Luke wrote "Catherine, the Queen" (1967), a portrait of Henry VIII's hapless first wife, Catherine of Aragon.
In a review of "A Crown for Elizabeth" for The New York Times, Lady Antonia Fraser wrote, "To the sympathetic retelling of history, Mrs. Luke has made a notable contribution and one that will give much pleasure to its readers.
Mrs. Luke also wrote a novel, "The Nonsuch Lure" (1976), and "The Ivy Crown: A Biographical Novel of Queen Katherine Paar" (1984).

        Carlotta Monti, an actress who wrote the 1971 book "W. C. Fields and Me," an account of her role as companion to the comedian for the last 14 years of his life, died on Wednesday at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Hospital in Woodland, Calif., after a long illness.
In her career as a writer, Ms. Lindbergh wrote 14 books, most of them for children.
Mrs. Coleman's parents were Sidney Howard, who wrote the screenplay for "Gone With the Wind," and the actress Clare Eames.
Ms. Simon also wrote articles for Redbook, other magazines and The New York Times.
In the early 30's, while coaching singers on Broadway, Miss Ronell wrote the hits "Baby's Birthday Party," "Rain on the Roof" and "Willow, Weep for Me," which won her a job with Walt Disney Studios.
She was the music director on many films and wrote the scores for "Champagne Waltz" (1937), "Algiers" (1938), "The Story of G.I.
She wrote one other book, "Never Dies the Dream," published in 1948.
Reviewing a 1937 Town Hall recital in The New York Times, Olin Downes wrote that Miss Tully's program was of "rare interest and artistic distinction" and praised her "musicianly zeal and catholicity of taste.
She was especially fond of the Spoleto Festival in Italy; its founder, Gian Carlo Menotti, wrote "Cantilene e Scherzo" and "Nocturne" for her.
Others who dedicated works to her include Mr. Schuman, who wrote "A Round for Alice," and Riccardo Malipiero, who composed "Serenata per Alice Tully.
