Ms. Wesley created ''an idiosyncratic fictional world, a middle-class English world,'' Michiko Kakutani wrote, reviewing the novel ''Second Fiddle'' in The New York Times in 1989.
Her books' ''bright comic surface belies a dark subtext of sin, incest, murder and betrayal,'' Ms. Kakutani wrote, adding that ''cuckoldry and sexual gamesmanship thrive in her novels, and a chilly air of malice (or at the very least manipulation) that's reminiscent of Muriel Spark's work hovers over her characters.
Born in New York City in 1915, Ms. Fisher was the daughter of the songwriter and music publisher Fred Fisher, with whom she wrote many of her first songs.
In 1944 they wrote ''You Always Hurt the One You Love,'' a million-selling hit for the Mills Brothers that was No.
Ms. Fisher and Roberts also wrote for more than 20 films, including ''Gilda'' (the songs ''Put the Blame on Mame,'' ''Amado Mio''), ''Down to Earth'' and ''The Lady From Shanghai,'' all with Rita Hayworth; and ''Dead Reckoning,'' with Humphrey Bogart.
She also studied issues like altruism and political ideology, and wrote psychobiographical works on historical figures including Nathaniel Hawthorne and Karl Marx's daughter Eleanor.
In his review in The New York Times, Mordaunt Hall wrote that there was good humor in Medicine Bow when ''the lass from the East clashes with the lads from the West,'' adding that Ms. Brian helped the picture along, although ''she might have been more persuasive with less rouge on her lips.
She wrote entertainingly and often about show business, musing about what to say when lunching with a prospective producer (order a drink, so you look relaxed, but don't touch it lest he think you're an alcoholic), or gloomily anticipating negative reviews of her latest work (''If I have to commit suicide, I have nothing but Gelusil'').
Jean and Walter Kerr teamed up again in 1949 with ''Touch and Go,'' a revue for which they wrote the sketches and lyrics and which Mr. Kerr directed.
She also wrote ''The Snake Has All the Lines'' (1960), ''Penny Candy'' (1970) and ''How I Got to Be Perfect'' (1978), collections of humorous essays.
''Citizen journalist is a mission I took for myself,'' Ms. McClendon wrote in her 1996 memoir, ''Mr.
She later wrote radio dramas and became involved in feminist protests.
''The book itself turns out to be, sadly, oddly, at times almost maddeningly, quite dull,'' wrote Roger Sale in The New York Review of Books.

        Mary Ellis, the young opera singer for whom Rudolf Friml wrote ''Rose-Marie'' in 1924 and who later became the queen of musicals in London, died there on Thursday at her home on Eaton Square.
''We were all mad and in love with life and work, and each other,'' she wrote in her autobiography, ''Those Dancing Years'' (John Murray, 1982).
Some of the shows Novello wrote for her included ''Glamorous Night'' and ''The Dancing Years.
Jean Nidetch wrote ''Weight Watchers Program Cookbook,'' which sold millions of copies.
She wrote more than 50 books and hundreds of articles published around the world.
She wrote a book about the role of cats in Islamic literature and another, ''The Mystery of Numbers'' (Oxford University Press, 1993), that compared numerical symbolism in various cultures.
She wrote frequently about commodities for newspapers, although sometimes under her husband's name, and published ''Food Supplies in the Aftermath of World War II'' in 1993.

        Sylvia Regan Ellstein, who wrote a two-act comedy, ''The Fifth Season,'' a Broadway hit in 1953, died Jan. 18 in Manhattan.
''Morning Star,'' a drama she wrote about immigrant family life on Manhattan's Lower East Side, opened on Broadway in 1940.
She resumed the studies interrupted by her internment and wrote articles about her childhood for several national magazines.
Baron Elie wrote to Miss Fould-Springer and proposed that they marry by proxy.
''Here all lifted glasses to the bride, to groom, to both Rothschild vineyards, and to Liliane, the hostess,'' Frederic Morton wrote in ''The Rothschilds: A Family Portrait.
Ms. Rothenberg wrote a memoir, ''Breathing for a Living,'' that will be published by Hyperion in July.
''Peggy Conklin's charm keeps Mrs. North's informality from being the annoyance it probably is,'' the theater critic Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times.
As a Hunter College student of 19, she wrote an adoring letter to Barrymore, then 53 and hospitalized in Manhattan.
She wrote and directed plays at Hunter College.
She wrote a series of articles about her romance for The New York Mirror in 1935.
''It was easy to see why the aging actor, sick in a hospital and sated with strawberry blondes of Hollywood who were as bland as Wonder Bread, found this bright and wry little New York girl, with all her crust, a tasty morsel,'' he wrote in his own autobiography, ''Giving Up the Ghost: A Writer's Life Among the Stars'' (M. Evans, 1980).
''Her farewell performance,'' wrote John Briggs, ''was one of the best of her Metropolitan career.
Wendy Dager, a columnist for The Ventura County Star and self-published author of ''The Gorgeous and Brilliant Guide to Freelance Writing,'' wrote an article on creating greeting cards.

        Barbara Doyle Duncan, who collected, exhibited and wrote about modern Latin American art when the field was still little known to much of the United States art world, died on March 28 at her home in New York.
In New York in the 1960's, she earned a master's degree at the Institute of Fine Arts, for which she wrote two theses, one on colonial Peruvian religious art, the other on the painter Joaquín Torres-García (1874-1949).
As she wrote in her 1986 autobiography, ''Zorina,'' she became involved at 18 in an open ménage à trois that included Massine, then the world's best-known choreographer, and his wife, Eugenia Delarova.
''If I had to be called something,'' she wrote in 1991 in her autobiography, ''I Put a Spell on You,'' ''it should have been a folk singer because there was more folk and blues than jazz in my playing.
Though she was best known as an interpreter of other people's music, she eloquently expressed her feelings about racism and black pride in those years in a number of memorable songs she wrote herself.
In an interview with The New York Times in 1985, she said, ''Most of the revivals we see are possible only because someone at some time wrote something down.
She adjudicated dance festivals across America and frequently wrote for dance publications.
She graduated cum laude in 1980 from Yale University, where she majored in art history and wrote her senior essay on the effect of Barbie dolls on popular culture.
Her interest in contemporary folk art took her to the University of Mississippi, where she wrote her master's thesis on Theora Hamblett, a little-known visionary folk painter, and became deeply involved with black quilt-makers.
Mr. Redgrave at first ''was worried,'' she later wrote, and hesitant about marrying her.
Over the years, Lady Redgrave wrote, she and her husband endured their respective dalliances, and the marriage lasted until his death in 1985.
''Miss Winsor, if she felt so inclined, could justifiably claim to be the woman who invented the modern best seller,'' Rachel Cooke wrote in The Observer, a London newspaper, last year.
She read 356 books on the subject and wrote five drafts of her novel, meticulously counting the hours she worked: 4,967.
''
        She wrote seven more novels, but none came close to the success of her first.
''I wrote only two sexy passages, and my publishers took both of them out,'' she was quoted as saying in Contemporary Authors Online.
''There is a wonderful sense of aliveness in the dancer's presence and in her moving,'' Martin wrote.
''She had us posting without stirrups in the middle of August out in the desert,'' he wrote in Marines magazine.
He wrote, ''She became a perfect housewife, even to the extent of baking her own bread.
''She helped pick up the bodies and then wrote her story,'' the citation said.
Ms. Neuffer moved to London, where she wrote freelance articles for The New York Times and other publications.
Ms. Cash wrote the song with Merle Kilgore in 1963, long before her marriage to Mr. Cash in 1968 but after she had become close to him, working with him on cross-country tours.
''Those black eyes that shone like agates,'' she wrote.
She wrote a memoir, ''Among My Klediments,'' in 1979, and a book of autobiographical vignettes, ''From the Heart,'' in 1987.
She wrote or co-wrote 26 books, including ''Selling Science: How the Press Covers Science and Technology,'' ''The DNA Mystique: The Gene as a Cultural Icon'' and ''Body Bazaar: The Market for Human Tissue in the Biotechnology Age.
''By making social factors irrelevant,'' she wrote, ''genetic explanations of crime provide convenient excuses for those seeking to dismantle the welfare state.
When Mrs. Bulah wrote to state education authorities to complain about the lack of a bus for her child, she was eventually told that the state constitution required racially segregated educational facilities and that buses fell under that definition.
''
        Mr. Kluger wrote that many blacks in the area were upset with the legal action because they had no desire to associate with white people.
Hepburn and Tracy, Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times, ''so beautifully complemented each other'' that their relationship ''never seemed to be a matter of capitulation.
''I was born May 12, 1907,'' she wrote, ''despite everything I may have said to the contrary.
In an interview that echoed what she wrote in ''Me,'' she assumed a self-chastising, no-nonsense tone and said she had been ''an absolute pig with Luddy, absolute pig.
Philip Barry wrote the play ''The Philadelphia Story'' for her, modeling his heroine, Tracy Lord, on Miss Hepburn.
She wrote about it in her first book, published in 1987, whose title captures the direct, colloquial style of her writing: ''The Making of the African Queen: Or, How I Went to Africa With Bogart, Bacall and Huston and Almost Lost My Mind'' (Knopf).
Walter Kerr of The New York Times wrote about her performance in ''The West Side Waltz'' in terms that reflected the general critical opinion: ''One mysterious thing she has learned to do is breathe unchallengeable life into lifeless lines.

        Elizabeth Fowler, who wrote a harrowing book about being the only woman among 35 passengers on a lifeboat in the Atlantic Ocean for 10 days during World War II, died on May 30 at a convalescent home in West Orange, N.J. She was 95.
She was the only woman on board, and wrote that the men resented her because they believed she could not pull her weight.
Ms. Fowler wrote of trying to evade a man intent on kissing her, and how she finally managed to urinate in a bucket.
Repeatedly and inexplicably, she wrote, she mourned the Burberry coat she had lost.
''Human decency showed more brightly with some,'' she wrote.
The columnist Elsa Maxwell wrote that she ''has had more emotional experiences out of this war than any other human being I know.
'' John Steinbeck, who wrote the novella and the screen treatment that became ''Lifeboat,'' does not seem to have mentioned her experience.
''If she appeared on screen it was to cough consumptively, gobble spoonfuls of syrup from bottles perched so precariously on bedside tables that they overturned and crashed to the floor when there was no money to buy another,'' he wrote.
''I wanted wallpaper in my novels, cereal bowls, cupboards, cousins, buses, local elections, head colds, cramps, newspapers,'' she wrote in 1998, ''and I abandoned Chekhov's dictum that if there is a rifle hanging over the fireplace, it must go off before the story ends.
''With her sweetness, her gentility, arsenic-laced with a sense of roguish innuendo and pagan sensuality, she is like no one else,'' he wrote.
Porter wrote the song ''Solomon'' for Miss Welch, and the novelty tune became her signature.
She jokingly called herself ''one-song Welch'' and in 1935 again overwhelmed audiences with the song ''Shantytown,'' which Ivor Novello, the star of prewar London musicals, wrote for her in his ''Glamorous Night.

        Anne Rogovin, a teacher of mentally handicapped children who wrote manuals on child rearing with admonitions like ''Turn off the TV!
Correction:  July 26, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on Thursday about Carol Matthau, who wrote of her life among Hollywood and literary celebrities, misstated the residence of her surviving sister, Elinor Dee Pruder.
At The Times, in 1943, she wrote news summaries for the Week in Review before The Times Magazine assigned her to cover events nationally and abroad.
Mrs. Nixon wrote more than 140 books, some published in more than a score of languages.
'' Mrs. Nixon also wrote historical novels for young readers, including her ''Orphan Train'' and ''Ellis Island'' series.
Mr. Wilbur wrote the foreword for her autobiography, ''A Life in Photography'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1991).
Her ''refusal to coerce or to use the intimidations of the studio,'' Mr. Wilbur wrote, ''are part of the genius of Rollie McKenna's portrait work.
She wrote that trips to Europe meant a break from a souring marriage, and a visit to a friend in Kuwait in 1950 produced a harvest of pictures of local life, like Bedouin falconers.
The countess wrote two books of memoirs as well as some biographical and historical writings about her family.
She wrote or collaborated on hundreds of scientific papers, and was the recipient of many awards for her work.
Martin wrote of her instinct for design as well as movement, adding, ''Here is a distinguished talent, highly individual in character, with something to say, and certainly with the means to get it said with taste, imagination and authority.
The program was called ''Hi Jinx,'' and Miss Falkenburg, who had no experience as an interviewer, was coached by Mr. McCrary, who also wrote most of the show himself.
Under the name Mary Hyde, she also wrote a number of books about her interests.
The three Shakespeare quartos they bought on that occasion turned out to be defective, Lady Eccles wrote, while a document with the purported signature of Queen Elizabeth I proved to be a fake.
Although shunned by the British establishment -- British ambassadors to France were instructed not to invite her to the embassy, for instance -- Lady Mosley presided over a beautifully decorated house, Temple de la Gloire, where she gardened, wrote, read, gave interviews, kept up on London literary gossip and entertained an endless stream of glittery visitors who were, inevitably, thoroughly enchanted by her quick wit, sparkling appearance, and sly sense of humor.
''There were so many paradoxes about this most beautiful, most intelligent, and most beguiling of the celebrated Mitford sisters,'' the novelist and critic A. N. Wilson, a friend of Lady Mosley, wrote in The Daily Telegraph.
Jessica became a Communist, running away from home to join Esmond Romilly, a wastrel nephew of Churchill, who had gone to Spain to work as a journalist in the Spanish Civil War (she later settled in the United States and wrote ''The American Way of Death,'' a brilliantly acerbic analysis of the American funeral industry, among other things).
''She was the nearest thing to Botticelli's Venus that I have ever seen,'' wrote James Lees-Milne, a family friend; Evelyn Waugh, who dedicated ''Vile Bodies'' to her, said that her beauty ''ran through the room like a peal of bells.
''The harsh voices and rough bark of boys and men seem to frighten horses,'' she wrote several weeks before her death in a script for a video about riding.
''I'm ashamed to say,'' she wrote, ''that I was still living pretty wild.
''If tennis is a game for ladies and gentlemen,'' she wrote in a letter to American Lawn Tennis magazine, ''it's time we acted a little more like gentlepeople and less like sanctimonious hypocrites.
She later wrote in her autobiography: ''Shaking hands with the Queen of England was a long way from being forced to sit in the colored section of the bus going into downtown Wilmington, N.C.''
        Upon returning home, Gibson was given a ticker-tape parade up Broadway, a banquet at the Waldorf-Astoria and a celebration on West 143rd Street.
Ms. Arango was also a contributor to design publications like Abitare and Domus, and she wrote a ''Design of the Month'' column for The San Francisco Chronicle.

        Marilyn E. Marlow, a literary agent who represented and championed many outstanding children's book writers and illustrators, especially those who wrote for teenage readers, died on Aug. 25 at the home of her niece Meg McCabe in Katonah, N.Y. She was 75 and lived in Manhattan.
'' Over the next four decades, she starred in regional theater and made guest appearances on television game shows and series like ''MacGyver'' and ''Murder, She Wrote.
''The fascist dramaturgy centers on the orgiastic transactions between mighty forces and their puppets,'' Ms. Sontag wrote.
''
        She subsequently wrote to Hitler, noting that ''I must confess that I was so impressed by you and by the enthusiasm of the spectators that I would like to meet you personally.
She always stridently denied that they were lovers, although recalling one meeting, she later wrote, ''That evening I felt that Hitler desired me as a woman.
She later wrote that Hitler had aged considerably and his hands trembled, but ''he still cast the same magical spell as before.
Branch wrote.
After they took her in, Mrs. Storch cried every night, developed shingles and wrote daily letters to the girl, according to the documentary.
Ms. Murie, who was known as Mardy, grew up in a log cabin in Alaska, an experience that she wrote about in her autobiography, ''Two in the Far North.
In addition to her autobiography, she wrote two other books, ''Island Between,'' published in 1977, and ''Wapiti Wilderness,'' published in 1966 with her husband as co-author.
''
        ''Direct, forceful, energetic,'' he wrote.
Miss Allen had strong opinions about country music and wrote articles and columns for publications like National Jamboree, Country Sound Roundup and Hoedown.
She wrote numerous book reviews and essays for Hers, a former column in The Times.
Ms. Mara wrote 11 books on ballet, many of which were dance students' easy-to-read instructional works, including ''The Language of Ballet,'' ''So You Want to Be a Ballet Dancer'' and the ''Steps in Ballet'' series.
''At first, her style seems a simple mélange of chunky chords and brief connective runs, but on closer examination it is a repository of the jazz piano playing of the thirties and forties,'' he wrote.
Ms. Farnan fell in love with Mr. Kallman's father, Eddie, and married him -- ''somewhat illegally,'' she wrote in her book -- in 1948.
Correction:  November 17, 2003, Monday  An obituary on Nov. 2 about Dorothy Farnan, a New York City teacher who wrote ''Auden in Love,'' a book about W. H. Auden and his companion, Chester Kallman, misstated the year in which she became chairman of the English department at Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn.

        Christabel Burton Bielenberg, a well-born Englishwoman who wrote a best-selling memoir about saving her German husband, a Nazi resister, from the Gestapo, died on Sunday at the family's home in rural Ireland.
With James Parker, she wrote the guide to the museum's Wrightsman Galleries (1979), the complex of spaces that display Jane Wrightsman's immense gift of French decorative arts; she also wrote the catalog for the gold boxes included in the gift (1977).
With James Parker, she wrote the guide to the museum's Wrightsman Galleries (1979), the complex of spaces that display Jane Wrightsman's immense gift of French decorative arts; she also wrote the catalog for the gold boxes included in the gift (1977).
She selected the porcelains for the museum's Jack and Belle Linsky Collection and also wrote its catalog (1984).
With Alice Cooney Frelinghuysen she organized ''Chinese Export Porcelain'' at the Met in 2003 and wrote its catalog, published as the Winter 2003 issue of the museum's bulletin.
After her child-rearing hiatus, during which she wrote a book on American and European snuffboxes, Mrs.
'' She also wrote a syndicated weekly column that appeared in 350 newspapers across the nation.
'' She also wrote a syndicated weekly column that appeared in 350 newspapers across the nation.
She lived as a native, observed acutely and wrote books that are sensitive, incisive and often humorous.
''The South is not the gentle, terraced landscape of Renaissance painting,'' she wrote in ''Women of the Shadows: Wives and Mothers of Southern Italy'' (1976).
In reviewing ''Where It All Began,'' Barbara Grizzuti Harrison wrote in The Washington Post: ''I have the feeling that we are being cheated of some immense inner drama by a ladylike reserve, a feeling I'm quite sure Cornelisen would deem vulgar.
''
        ''We hear only that it failed -- not why, nor how she felt about it,'' Richard Eder wrote in The Los Angeles Times when reviewing ''Where It All Began.
'' When she left Paris for Italy, the scene she described could be about ''a nervous girl going to boarding school,'' Mr. Eder wrote.
'' He wrote, ''She avoids any resemblance to a sociological report, although she is handling a serious sociological problem.
She was also not prepared for the adulation she received in the weeks to come, when somebody wrote a song titled, ''Tell Me, Trudy, Who Is Going to Be the Lucky One?
Over the years, it sometimes seemed that journalists alone remembered her, and they wrote articles commemorating the 5th, 10th, 15th, 20th and 25th anniversaries of her Channel swim.
Ms. Shelley wrote the lyrics for more than 300 songs.
''How Did He Look?,'' which she wrote with Abner Silver, was her first hit and her most frequently recorded song.
''
        Early in her career she wrote a few songs with Fred Astaire and provided words for Morton Gould's ''Pavanne,'' from his ''American Symphonette No.
But it is likely that none of Ms. Shelley's songs reached as wide an audience as ''Come On Over,'' one of the few for which she wrote both music and words.
She occasionally wrote for the theater and the movies, though without much success.
''The Duchess Misbehaves,'' a musical comedy for which she wrote the book and lyrics, ran for three performances at the Adelphi Theater in Manhattan in 1946.
That same year she wrote the story for ''Idea Girl,'' a low-budget movie set in the music publishing industry that quickly came and went.
She wrote several books, most recently a report for the Fund for Peace in Washington, ''It Takes Two to Tango: International Perspectives on the United Nations'' (1998).
As a writer for The Musical Courier in the 1930's she interviewed the composers Bela Bartok, Darius Milhaud and Heitor Villa-Lobos and wrote a monograph on American music from 1900 to 1940.
A study of Russian music that she wrote for The Kenyon Review in 1941 focused on Stalin's repression of composers, including Shostakovich.
She wrote or was a co-author of 10 books, including the influential 1996 volume ''Rethinking Innateness,'' and more than 200 articles.
