Joined War on Poverty
        In 1964, during their final year in New Haven, the Cahns jointly wrote an article for The Yale Law Journal proposing a national system of legal services to the poor as part of what was to become the Johnson Administration's War on Poverty.
In the 1970's, Miss Moore wrote prose and poetry and published a newsletter, The American Negro Woman.
In an article about Bessie Smith, Dinah Washington and Billie Holiday, Miss Moore wrote: "They were not just blues singers, they were innovators who took experience directly from the harsh and dynamic areas of life, refined it and gave it the form and beauty that moved us so much.
In the 1970's, Miss Moore wrote prose and poetry and published a newsletter, The American Negro Woman.
In an article about Bessie Smith, Dinah Washington and Billie Holiday, Miss Moore wrote: "They were not just blues singers, they were innovators who took experience directly from the harsh and dynamic areas of life, refined it and gave it the form and beauty that moved us so much.
She wrote children's books under the name Mary Francis Shura and dozens of adult books and mystery novels under the names M. S. Craig, Mary Francis Craig and Meredith Hill.
      
In addition to many magazine articles, she was the author of "A Million Homes a Year," (Harcourt Brace, 1945) and, with her husband, Samuel I. Rosenman, an adviser to Presidents Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, she wrote "Some Giants and a Pygmy in the White House," (Harper & Row, 1976).
" She also wrote several books including "Portraits of Our Mothers; Using Oral History in the Classroom" (The Network Inc., 1983).
She wrote several mathematics texts and was a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
She also taught at the Alliance Francaise in Manhattan, Georgetown University, City College of New York and at the Convent of the Sacred Heart in Greenwich, Conn. Ms. Gehin also wrote for a newspaper syndicate in Paris.
"When my case was called and I walked over to the appropriate table, a bailiff rushed over to direct me to where he said I belonged -- the spectator's bench," she wrote.
She wrote, with Lincoln Kirstein, "The Classic Ballet: Basic Technique and Terminology," a 1952 book that has become a standard text.
" She also wrote nightclub and music hall material.

        Rhoda Bacmeister, an authority on early childhood education who directed nursery schools and wrote eight books about children, died on Wednesday at All Saints Catholic Nursing Home in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 97 years old and lived in Clemson, S.C.
        She died of respiratory failure, her family said.
Mrs. Bacmeister wrote four books on early childhood education and four on literature for children.
She wrote "The Making of the New Deal -- The Insiders Speak," published by Harvard University Press in 1983.
Mrs. Borland wrote two books and collaborated for many years on short stories and novellas with her husband, the nature writer Hal Borland, who died in 1978.
For several years, she also wrote a gardening column for The Berkshire Eagle in Pittsfield, Mass.
She also wrote books on financial scandals.
Widely respected as an authoritative scholar, Dr. Carter wrote several books including a carefully documented analysis of apartheid, "The Politics of Equality" (1955, Frederick A. Praeger); "Independence for Africa" (1960, Praeger), and "Government and Politics in the Twentieth Century," with John H. Herz (1961, Praeger).
Correction:  February 22, 1991, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about Gwendolen Carter, a scholar on Africa, misidentified a book she wrote about apartheid.
"
        The New York Times dance critic John Martin analyzed her artistry in 1953 when he wrote: "She has a muscular awareness of the phrase which automatically translates music into movement, and her scale is beautifully sensitive, so that there is endless color in her movement.
"When she comes bounding in with all the young joyousness in the world at her first entrance in the birthday party scene," Mr. Martin, the Times critic, wrote, "the lights somehow seem to become brighter and the air fresher, and you know you are in the presence of magic.
She was a contributing editor to Art News and wrote often for Vogue magazine.
Miss Kulp held a journalism degree from Florida State University and wrote feature articles for the Miami Beach Tropics in the early 1940's.
She wrote the book "Transformations," a memoir of the Humphrey-Weidman era, and was the subject of a 1989 collection of essays, "Eleanor King: 60 Years in American Dance.
With her husband, Hubbard, Betsy Cobb, as she was known professionally, wrote about ways to acquire, maintain and enhance living space.
She wrote "Cookbook of the Seven Seas" (1968), and also edited several of her husband's books.
She wrote book reviews for The Litchfield County Times in Connecticut until shortly before her death.
In the 1920's, she wrote magazine articles as Lillian Day, adopting the surname of her first husband.
In 1931, she wrote the novel "Kiss and Tell" and the next year she collaborated with her second husband, Lyon Mearson, on the novel "Our Wife.
She wrote and illustrated six children's books, four of which became Junior Literary Guild selections.
She also wrote many reviews, review-essays and interviews herself for the Sunday and daily book-review sections of The Times and for literary publications, as well as lecturing on literary topics at a number of universities.
Reviewing a production by the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1947, John Martin, who was then the dance critic of The New York Times, wrote, "It convinces you of its human truth even while you are chortling at its crude and uninhibited sentimentalities.
She wrote articles on the psychosomatic aspects of dermatology.
She also wrote "Social Forces in Southeast Asia," which appeared in 1949, and her writings were widely published in scholarly journals.
Mrs. Rich wrote a number of books for adults and children, among them "Only Parent" (1953), "Innocence Under the Elms" (1955) and "The Coast of Maine" (1956).
Mrs. Colebrook wrote two novels in the 1940's, one about pre-World War II life in England, the other, "The Northerner" (1948), about life in Australia, where she grew up.
She also wrote for Commentary, The New Yorker and other magazines.
"For me, dance is theater," she wrote.
In 1944, John Martin, dance critic for The New York Times, wrote of the emotional effect that the Graham dance theater could have upon the viewer.
Among the composers who wrote scores for Miss Graham were Samuel Barber, William Schuman, Gian Carlo Menotti and Aaron Copland, whose score for her 1944 classic, "Appalachian Spring," won the Pulitzer Prize.

        Alice Cutts Wainwright, an environmentalist who wrote the charter for Friends of the Everglades and represented the Audubon Society in South Florida for almost 20 years, died after suffering a heart attack Tuesday at Mercy Hospital here.
Grace Glueck, The New York Times critic, wrote in 1976, "The museum's far-reaching collection covers 3,000 years of artistic production, but it is also very much in touch with contemporary concerns, such as urban planning and the environment.
Grace Glueck, The New York Times critic, wrote in 1976, "The museum's far-reaching collection covers 3,000 years of artistic production, but it is also very much in touch with contemporary concerns, such as urban planning and the environment.
The 1951 collection, Miss Pope wrote, excells in "both wit and wisdom.
She wrote four books on Anthony Trollope and other Victorian literary figures between 1975 and 1984.

        Marie Jastrow, who wrote two critically praised books describing immigrant life in turn-of-the-century New York, died at her home in Tucson, Ariz., on March 30.
"
        Reviewing "A Time to Remember" in The New York Times Book Review, Caroline Seebohm wrote: "This kind of document grows more and more precious with the years.
She was a member of the American Sociological Association and wrote "Turgot's Unknown Translator: The Reflections and Adam Smith," published in 1964 by Martinus Nijhoff in The Hague.
Bland wrote in The New York Times that it was important "for us art teachers to provide the opportunity for children to express their ideas and feelings with confidence that they will be accepted and respected.
Bland wrote in The New York Times Book Review that it was important "for us art teachers to provide the opportunity for children to express their ideas and feelings with confidence that they will be accepted and respected.
She wrote or edited several books, among them "Skeleton of Justice," with Edith Roper (E.P.
She wrote and edited several books on Islam and classical literature.
In the fall of 1939, six years before Hitler's death, she wrote in The Ohio State Journal in Columbus: "Characteristic of Herr Hitler's handwritings are three outstanding traits: indecision, depression and morbid introspection.
Early in her career, she wrote 11 books for children.
Dr. Washington wrote three books about the effects of poverty on the learning process, was a trustee for several colleges and was a member of Presidential committees on youth, hunger and employment of the handicapped.
Mrs. Sarnoff wrote "The Ultimate Spa Book" (Warner Books, 1990), as well as articles for travel magazines.

        Katya Alpert Gilden, who with her husband, Bert, wrote novels under the name of K. B. Gilden, died on Sunday at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital in Boston.
She wrote a lively autobiography, "Heritage of Fire," but her only real ally in the Wagner family was her brother Wieland.

        Elizabeth Jay Hollins, an author who wrote under the name Elizabeth Etnier, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Hollins wrote "On Gilbert Head," a critically praised journal of her life in the 1930's with her first husband, the painter Stephen Etnier, on an island in Maine.
Dr. Loveless wrote more than 70 research papers and articles and was a member of many professional organizations, including the American Academy of Allergy and Immunology and the American Association of Immunologists.
She wrote more than 100 books and articles, including "The Making of a Scientist," published in 1952 by Dodd, Mead.
She wrote a sociey column, "Under My Hat," and later wrote a syndicated column, "From the Capital.
She wrote a sociey column, "Under My Hat," and later wrote a syndicated column, "From the Capital.
Mrs. Hearst, who left the newspaper business in 1956, wrote "The Horses of San Simeon," (San Simeon Press, 1985), a book about breeding and raising horses.
Long afterward, she wrote, "I would rather play Ibsen than eat -- and that's often just what it amounts to.
There, with barnyard and forest creatures, cats and a kennel of cairn terriers, she busily gardened, wove, wrote and studied for the rest of her life -- but never abandoned the theater.
After observing two barnyard hens, she wrote a children's book, "Flossie and Bossie: A Moral Tale.
" She also translated "Seven Tales by Hans Christian Andersen" and wrote a bio graphy, "The Mystic in the Theater: Eleonora Duse" (1966).
The newspaper, the Hainan Daily, wrote that she "twists her lips, snorts and even says some nonsense like 'This is not the Chairman's revolutionary line.
Miss Porter, who wrote more than a score of books on investment, taxes and other economic subjects, also reached 40 million readers through her column on personal finance.
In 1934 she wrote a weekly column in The American Banker on United States Government securities and soon started her own information service on Government bonds.
She wrote a daily column that was published under the title "S. F. Porter Says.
" Author of Many Books
        In 1939 she wrote the first of her many successful books, "How to Make Money in Government Bonds.
Appraising the film, Bosley Crowther wrote in The New York Times that "as the long-suffering wife, Mildred Dunnock is simply superb, as she was on the stage" in her "portrayal of a woman who bears the agony of seeing her sons and husband turn out failures.
Appraising the film, Bosley Crowther wrote in The New York Times that "as the long-suffering wife, Mildred Dunnock is simply superb, as she was on the stage" in her "portrayal of a woman who bears the agony of seeing her sons and husband turn out failures.
She edited many anthologies of mysteries and wrote articles for newspapers, magazines and books, at times under such pen names as Lika Van Ness, Julia DeHahn and Ruth Graviros.
She wrote a 1984 book, "Whodunit: a Biblio-Bio-Anecdotal Memoir of Federic Dannay," profiling the writer who, with a cousin, collaborated under the pseudonym Ellery Queen.
Reviewing Ms. Remick's performance in "Nutcracker," a 1987 NBC mini-series in which she played a woman who manipulates her son into committing murder, Mr. O'Connor wrote in The New York Times: "If she had been born with Bette Davis eyes or Katharine Hepburn cheekbones, she might long ago have been recognized as one of this country's most outstanding dramatic actresses.
She also wrote a column for The Suffolk Times, "The Wild Harvest," illustrated with her own photographs.
"The farm," Ms. Dewhurst wrote a few years ago, "is my eye in the storm, my sanity, my safety, my knowledge that there is a place that I do exist, that is my home.
Mrs. Lutzker wrote a book on the first group of women to get M.D.
She also wrote a biography of one of them, "Edith Pechey-Phipson, M.D.
"
        More recently, Mrs. Lutzker, with Carol Jochnowitz, wrote a biography of Waldemar M. Haffkine, a bacteriologist who discovered vaccines against cholera and bubonic plague.
Ms. Church, who wrote under the name Mary Meade, was food editor, cooking editor and a columnist for The Tribune for 38 years before retiring from the newspaper in 1974.
"The farm," Ms. Dewhurst wrote a few years ago, "is my eye in the storm, my sanity, my safety, my knowledge that there is a place that I do exist, that is my home.
Mrs. Mayer also helped her husband research and edit several reference books he wrote for artists, including "The Artist's Handbook of Materials and Techniques," first published in 1940 and now considered a classic in the field.
Dr. Seibert wrote many articles for scientific journals, and held five honorary degrees.
When the program ended in 1938, she wrote columns and features for newspapers, then resumed her program over WNEW in New York in 1941.
"
        In praising her poetry, the critic Paul Auster wrote that "in poem after poem, we witness her trying somehow to peel back the skin of the world in order to find some absolute and unassailable place of permanence.
"
        Both because of her devotion to language and defiance of all social instituitions, the critic Martin Green once wrote, Ms.
When the work moved to the ANTA Theater on Broadway, Clive Barnes wrote in The New York Times that "it represents La Mama both at its most adventurous and at its most self-indulgent.
She was under contract to Paramount Studios for two years and, at the time, wrote some magazine fiction.
She also wrote a number of textbooks, including "On Writing a Short Story," which was published in 1983.
Before she became infected, Ms. Mason worked as a reporter for two weekly newspapers, The Ohio County Times-News in Hartford, Ky., and later for The Appalachian News-Express in Pikeville, Ky. She also wrote short stories.
Nor, she wrote, did she want people with AIDS to be barred from entering the United States.
"Mr. President, doctors don't give people AIDS -- they care for people with it," she wrote.

        Gladys Gage Dibble, a Michigan horticulturist who wrote widely on gardening, died Friday at the Georgian Bloomfield Nursing Home in Bloomfield, Mich. She was 90 years old.
Mrs. Dibble, who specialized in small garden plots for city dwellers, wrote about gardening for several publications, including The New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, American Home and House & Garden.

        Grace Zaring Stone, a novelist who also wrote under the pen name Ethel Vance, died on Sunday at the Mary Elizabeth Nursing Center in Mystic, Conn. She was 100 years old and had lived in Stonington, Conn.
        Three of Mrs. Stone's novels were made into films: "The Bitter Tea of General Yen," in 1933, which starred Barbara Stanwyck and Nils Asther; "Escape" (1940,) with Norma Shearer, Robert Taylor and Conrad Veidt, and "Winter Meeting" (1948,) with Bette Davis.
"
        She wrote an account of a hurricane, and the Atlantic Monthly bought it, and later bought a short story as well.
Then "Bobbs-Merrill wrote to ask me if I had a novel in mind, by any chance," Mrs. Stone said, "and of course that was a most amazing question to me, because I'd had a novel in mind practically forever.
Walter Kerr wrote in The New York Times in 1967: "I have been seeing Aline MacMahon for more years than I'm going to be honest enough or ungentlemanly enough to count.
Mrs. Anders, who was born in the Bronx and grew up in Brooklyn, first worked for M. Barrows publishing, where she wrote and edited books on cooking and crafts.
Among the books she wrote were "Complete Cookbook for Infra-Red Broiler and Rotisserie," published by M. Barrows, and "Casserole Specialties" and "Chafing-Dish Specialties," both for Hearthside.
Mrs. Kaye, the widow of the actor Danny Kaye, wrote the music and lyrics for many of her husband's films, including "Up in Arms" (1944), "Wonder Man" (1945), "The Kid from Brooklyn" (1946), "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty" (1947), "The Inspector General" (1949) and "The Court Jester" (1956).
Mrs. Kaye wrote the music and lyrics for her husband and accompanied him on piano.
"I wrote many songs for Danny that had patter sections in them," she once told an interviewer, "but only two pure patter songs.
" For the film "Knock on Wood" (1954), she wrote "All About You," which Cole Porter called "a perfect love song.
"
        For most of her career, Mrs. Kaye wrote songs and music solely for her husband.
She once estimated that she wrote more than 100 songs for him during their 40-year collaboration.
In a preface to the book, Miss Ginzburg wrote: "Possibly some people may not be pleased to find themselves described in the book under their own names.
"
        Asked what kind of writer she would have become had her life not been disrupted by the war, she told Ms. Gordon: "Of course I wrote about the war.
"When I write something I usually think it is very important and that I am a very fine writer," she wrote in an essay for The New York Times Book Review in 1986.
She once conceded that her columns were sometimes "silly" and that the people she wrote about were sometimes "shallow.
'Never Fond of Poverty'
        "She was never fond of poverty," wrote Cindy Adams, the New York Post columnist.
Remarking on Ms. Lilly's skills in meeting rich people, Ms. Adams wrote that "when the rest of us were in camel's hair," Ms. Lilly received a prized sable coat from a male admirer "who was a little bit married.
Walter Kerr wrote in The New York Times in 1967: "I have been seeing Aline MacMahon for more years than I'm going to be honest enough or ungentlemanly enough to count.
She did not "measure up to the word portrait of her character," he wrote.
She was not yet 20 years old and not long out of finishing school, and she had only a supporting role, but Mr. Crowther wrote in The New York Times that he thought she had talent.
One appellate opinion she wrote concerned the boycott of the Red Apple grocery operated by Koreans in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn.
One appellate opinion she wrote concerned the boycott of the Red Apple grocery operated by Koreans in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn.
Miss Beck, a champion of regional French cooking, also wrote two cookbooks of her own, "Simca's Cuisine,"' and "New Menus from Simca's Cuisine," both now out of print.
"
        She was a vice chairwoman of the National Safety Council, wrote a newsletter column for the National Council of Women, was a director of the Advertising Women of New York and the Fashion Group and was an adviser to the Tobe-Coburn School for Fashion Careers.
She wrote five books, including "Our Hidden Heritage: Five Centuries of Women Artists" (1974) and "Luis Melendez, 18th-Century Master of the Spanish Still Life" (1985).
"Photography can never grow up if it imitates some other medium," she wrote in 1951.
