With Donald K. Price, the Stones wrote two books published by the Public Service Administration in 1940, "City Manager Government in the U.S." and "Case Studies in City Manager Government.
"Be natural and easy with your baby," Dr. Whipple wrote in her 1944 book "Our American Babies.
A grandmother, she wrote, could be a blessing, or "a terrible pain in the neck.
She was a frequent contributor to professional and popular journals and wrote two other books: "Euthenic Pediatrics" and "Q: Is the Grass Greener?

        Ann M. Lingg, who wrote articles and books about music and musicians, died on Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
In the 1940's and 50's she wrote about music for a number of national magazines.
In her decision, an Ontario judge, Susan Lang, wrote that had Mr. Pittman been told, he might have lived two more years and avoided infecting Mrs. Pittman.
"Julia Adler," wrote Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times, "improves a little upon Stella Adler's playing.
In her decades abroad, she also wrote articles for The New York Times, Atlantic Monthly, The Reporter magazine, Life, Reader's Digest, Harper's, The New Republic, The Washington Post, International Herald Tribune and The Financial Times.
For the Bicentennial year 1976 she wrote about the foods of the past in the introduction of an illustrated collection of regional and historic recipes.
She also wrote the books "Toulouse-Lautrec: His World" (Harper, 1973) and "Francisco Goya: Painter of Kings and Demons" (Harper, 1974).
For many years she wrote short stories for Ladies' Home Journal and other publications and in 1945 received the O. Henry Award.
"Miss Keswick's is no ordinary garden tour," a reviewer for The New York Times wrote, "but a first-rate job of intellect, intelligently illustrated.
She wrote more than 20 books of fiction and many works of nonfiction, including autobiographies and journals, a play and several screenplays.
"
        In The New York Times Book Review, the novelist Sheila Ballantyne, reviewing "Anger," Ms. Sarton's 1982 novel, wrote: "It is clear that May Sarton's best work, whatever its form, will endure well beyond the influence of particular reviews or current tastes.
To support her art, she wrote book reviews and taught creative writing.
In "After the Stroke," a journal published in 1988, she wrote that she had discovered "for the first time perhaps what it takes to grow old," and, approaching 75, was determined to "recover and go on creating.
With her aunt, Annette E. Church, she wrote a biography of her grandfather and father, "The Robert R. Churches of Memphis: A Father and Son Who Achieved in Spite of Race" (Burke's, 1974).
She also wrote, with Mr. Walter, "Nineteenth-Century Memphis Families of Color, 1850-1900" (Burke's; 2d ed., 1989).
She wrote articles about home-school partnerships and promoting the academic success of children from diverse ethnic backgrounds.
In a career that extended from the 1930's to the 60's, Miss Griffin wrote or helped write such movies as "St. Louis Blues," "Good Morning, Miss Dove" and "Imitation of Life," but by far her most significant work was "Boys Town," the 1938 movie in which Father Flanagan, a compassionate Roman Catholic priest (Spencer Tracy) runs a school for a group of endearing juvenile delinquents led by Mickey Rooney.
's faculty, she served on virtually every city, state and national conference devoted to children and wrote widely on the subject.
Later she wrote a handbook on parliamentary procedure, "Mr. Chairman," which was used as a textbook throughout the state.
Specializing in a subgenre known as problem novels, they wrote about teen-agers dealing with such distinctly adult themes as racism ("Kim/Kimi"), suicide ("So Long at the Fair") and alcoholism ("Can't Hear You Listening").
Vincent Canby of The New York Times called "Junior Bonner" "a superior family comedy" made to order for both Steve McQueen and Robert Preston, but wrote "the loveliest performance is that of Miss Lupino.
She was acting, she later wrote, "in the belief that I had more to learn by pursuing my personal life than from textual emendation, with the result that the authorities could put up with me for only just over a year.
In a tribute to Miss Brophy in The Independent on Tuesday, her literary agent, Giles Gordon, described her as a "deeply shy, courteous woman" who wrote delightful thank-you letters and kept to rigorous standards in her work.
"Woe betide the 'editor' who tried to rewrite her fastidious, logical, exact prose, change a colon to a semi-colon (or vice-versa), or try to spell 'show' other than 'shew,' slavish Shavian that Brophy was," Mr. Gordon wrote.
In her dedication to Pasternak, she wrote: "The greater part of my conscious life has been devoted to you -- and what is left of it will also be devoted to you.

        Helen K. Nearing, who with her husband, Scott Nearing, wrote about leaving the congested streets of Manhattan to find peace and happiness through hard work and self-sufficiency on a New England farm, died on Sunday in an automobile accident near her home in Harborside, Me.
Nearing and her husband wrote more than 50 books during their half-century of homesteading, including "Living the Good Life" and "Continuing the Good Life," written initially in pamphlet form and then published by Schocken in 1954 and 1970, respectively.
"In November, the rafters in our big country kitchen are hung with braids of onions and shallots, with ears of dried corn, with drying herbs (mint, tarragon, thyme, parsley, celery, sage and lovage)," she once wrote in a letter to The New York Times.
"Of bottled canned goods in the kitchen cellar, we have 160 quarts of vegatable soup and tomato juice, 132 quarts of rose hips, 80 quarts of applesauce, 146 quarts of raspberries, and jars and jars of jam," she wrote.
"
        Believing in the adage "waste not, want not," she wrote about all her experiences, providing New Age homesteaders with 10- and 20-year projects leading toward "the good life.
"
        "The Maple Sugar Book," which she wrote with her husband and which was published by Schocken in 1950, told not only of the art and history of sugaring but also of the practical details of sugar making.
Nearing wrote alone were "Wise Words on the Good Life" (Schocken, 1983) and "Simple Food for the Good Life" (Stillpoint, 1983), which she described as "an anti-cooking book that advocates fresh raw foods and minimal cooking.
For the last four decades, she wrote a column, "Fancy Free," for The Fairfield Citizen-News, a weekly newspaper.
Ms. Welch wrote "Networking: The Great New Way for Women to Get Ahead" (Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich, 1980) in an era when more women were competing for jobs traditionally dominated by men.
Ms. Welch wrote books on varied topics, including wilderness trips, cooking, travel for teen-age girls and etiquette.
She and the show were so successful that Kern and P. G. Wodehouse wrote another one especially for her.
"Vernell Lillie wrote to Dillard, which is where she had gone, and asked them to provide a scholarship for me," Dr. Simmons said.
So Ruth Simmons wrote Toni Morrison's resume for her.
" She wrote more than a dozen books, beginning in 1964.
A British historian of France, Douglas Johnson, wrote in The Independent on Friday that Professor Kriegel was respected as an individual force among French intellectuals.
After the war she studied at the Ecole Normale Superieure de Sevres, held posts in teaching and related fields and wrote for Le Figaro.
Mr. Hazen, a former vice president and director of Warner Brothers, wrote the contract between the studio and Edison Vitaphone that resulted in "The Jazz Singer," the first movie with sound.

        Edith Pargeter, a British author of mysteries and historical fiction who wrote a series of novels under the pen name Ellis Peters about a sleuthing 12th  century monk named Brother Cadfael, died Saturday.
Ms. Pargeter wrote approximately 90 books, the first in 1936 and the last in 1994.
In it she wrote: "The most thrilling aspect of this decision was that it was taken by the most conservative of men, by Costa, who with undue haste had drifted into middle age, silently condemning any kind of youthful flutter, choosing severe clothes, discouraging any tendency toward eccentricity, avoiding noisy parties, disliking on me anything conspicuous, insisting on my keeping my hair white.
The state has the responsibility to provide them rather then leave it up  to the impoverished districts, they wrote.
She also appeared in "I Love  Lucy" and other Lucille Ball series and in episodes of "Dennis the Menace," "The Father Dowling Mysteries," "Murder She Wrote" and many other television shows.
"
        Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times, "As Anastasia, longing desperately for the consolation of reunion with a blood relative, Miss Lindfors  is all grace, softness and humility.
Lillian Fuchs Stein was "one of the best string players in America," Harold C. Schonberg wrote in The New York Times in 1962, and she went on to become one of the most respected string teachers in the world.
"The measure of an artist is the silence he or she can inspire," Ross Parmenter wrote in The Times in 1948 of her performance of the Sixth Suite.
As a composer, she won several awards during her student years, and later wrote mainly for the viola.
The young Leonard Bernstein wrote for the magazine, as did Edwin Denby, the dance critic, whose career Mrs. Daniel helped nurture.
Mrs. Daniel in turn wielded considerable influence, Joan Peyser wrote in a 1983 article for The New York Times, and "probably shaped pre-World War II American music more than any single composer did.
"It afforded information and informed editorial comment upon contemporaneous tendencies in music not to be found elsewhere," Olin Downes wrote in The Times.
Afterward she became a legend: the woman with the pageboy haircut who looked like W. H. Auden, wrote like James Joyce, strode through the Village in her signature serapes, had breakfast at Bigelow's with Richard Wright, got drunk at  the White Horse Tavern with Dylan Thomas, palled around with Truman Capote and Carson McCullers, kept a vast collection of dolls in her Bleecker Street apartment and regaled intimates with tales of her romantic conquests.
She wrote her first poems when she was 6, joined the Authors League at 11, published her first poem at Indiana University when she was 19, won first prize in a literary  contest at Butler University when she was 20 and published her first book of poems, "Prismatic Ground," at 28, in 1937, a year after receiving a master's in  Elizabethan and Jacobean literature from the University of Chicago.
"A queer lot, these dancers," Ms. Hill, who doubled as a square dance caller  at parties at Bennington, wrote of the hectic summers in a 1950 article in The New York Times.
Her hope, she wrote, was that the young dancers  could come out of the experience "with an informed attitude toward dance where they no longer secretly use the 19th-century classification of dance that is 'graceful, ungraceful or disgraceful,' nor yet again fall victim to the old fundamentalist quarrel between the traditional ballet and the experimental modern dance, which is now only a tale with which the elders sometimes divert the young.
Ms. Hill was a consultant for the United States Office of Education and wrote the dance section in a teachers' manual in 1943.
After a 10-year absence from the New York concert stage, she returned in 1976 to give a recital at Hunter College; Donal Henahan wrote in The Times that the concert was "one of the most musically satisfying of this season.
"Your clothes made me feel like a coal miner," he wrote.
Widely regarded as the nation's leading authority on open-hearth cooking, she wrote widely in the field and served as a consultant to historical culinary projects like "The First Ladies Cookbook" and "The American  Heritage Cookbook.
Mrs. Rand wrote daily radio shows for James Beard, Arlene Francis, Dorothy and Mary Rodgers and Dione Lucas, among others.
" With her husband, John, she wrote and produced "Quick Changes," a satirical revue that had a successful run in Chicago.
She also wrote two award-winning industrial films.
"Sung in the squeaky, nasal New Yorkese that characterizes Adelaide, the Lament is an unforgettable show stopper," Collier's  magazine wrote in 1951.

        Alice Miller Bregman, who edited and wrote about children's books, died last  Wednesday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center.
She wrote the Brenda Starr story line for Tribune Media Services of Chicago  from 1982 to 1985, taking over from the strip's creator, Dale Messick.
In 1966, still unable to find work as an actress, Ms. McQueen wrote a letter  to a Georgia congressman asking him for help in getting a job.
That day, after she left, I wrote virtually all the ideas in 'Happiness Is a Warm Puppy' and it was the best-selling book the next year.
She was 96, and had homes in Washington and Kitty Hawk, N.C.
        Mrs. Miller wrote more than 20 books.
She also wrote six books on Greece and several works on  foreign policy.
In 1965 she wrote "My Life With Chaplin.

        Irene Corbally Kuhn, a journalist who traveled on five continents and wrote books as well as newspaper and magazine articles and columns, died yesterday at  the Briar Crest-Deaconess Nursing Home in Concord, Mass., where she had lived for the last year.
Mrs. Kuhn's many writings included a volume of memoirs, "Assigned to Adventure" (1938), which Augusta Tucker, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called "the story of an unafraid woman who has seen a lot of the world as a newspaper reporter" and added that it "has pace, it has interest, it has color, and the woman who wrote it has sense: a quality not consistently present  in the kiss-and-tell books of some of the male correspondents.".
After leaving NBC, she wrote a syndicated column and did other writing, including reminiscences that appeared in Gourmet magazine in the 1970's and 1980's.
She also edited  several anthologies and wrote several short-story collections, including "Gorilla, My Love," published in 1972, and "The Sea Birds Are Still Alive," published in 1977.
Bryan wrote that her stories were unusual because they addressed racial issues in a tone more thoughtful than angry.
"Toni Cade Bambara tells me more about being black through her quiet, proud,  silly, tender, hip, acute, loving stories than any amount of literary polemicizing could hope to do," Mr. Bryan wrote in the review.
She wrote and lectured frequently about film, stressing the importance of movies that dispel Hollywood stereotypes about blacks.

        Miriam Camps, who wrote about European unification and other topics and who had been a State Department official, died on Friday in a hospital near her home in Little Abingdon outside Cambridge, England.
" Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Kelly "never forgets that she is not playing a figure in a melodrama, but a human character tortured beyond human endurance.
The book "Cosa: The Lamps," which she wrote with Dr. Norma Goldman of Wayne State University, was issued last fall as part of the American Academy series through the University of Michigan Press.
She wrote the text for the photographer Ylla's "I'll Show You Cats" (1964), an award-winning children's book.
"We categorically reject the misjudgments, mischaracterizations, insinuations and outright falsehoods about our family relationships portrayed in the book," they wrote.
" she wrote, and called motherhood "a profession that was fully as interesting and challenging as any honorable profession.
"We categorically reject the misjudgments, mischaracterizations, insinuations and outright falsehoods about our family relationships portrayed in the book," they wrote.
" she wrote, and called motherhood "a profession that was fully as interesting and challenging as any honorable profession.

        Hilda Cole Espy, an author who wrote about her adventures in rearing five children after an early career as a publicity agent for Kate Smith and Fred Waring, died on Friday at the Pocono Medical Center in East Stroudsburg, Pa. She was 83 and lived in Delaware Water Gap, Pa.
The books she wrote about her family were "Quiet Yelled Mrs. Rabbit" (1959) and "Look Both Ways" (1962).
She also wrote, with Lex Creamer Jr., the travel book "Another World: Central America" (1970).
Mrs. Ryan was born on July 4, 1901, at Cedar Court, Kahn's mansion in Morristown, N.J. Kahn's biographer John Kobler wrote that he was closer to her than to his other children.
Father and daughter, Mr. Kobler wrote in "Otto the Magnificent" (Scribners, 1989) "golfed together, rode together, swam together, chaffed each other, went to the opera together, and when apart, corresponded frequently.
Mr. Kober wrote that when Kahn first became involved with the company, the Met had an unwritten rule that no Jew could own a box.
Miss Tikanova belonged to a literary and artistic family, which she wrote about in her memoir, "The Girl in Blue," published in 1991 in France and Russia.
      
With her Cornell roommate, Frances Schwartz, she wrote novels under the name Francis Sylvin.
It was a rarely discussed topic, which she also wrote about for magazines and newspapers.
She wrote, adapted or translated 22 books, each accompanied by her own illustrations, which frequently evoked Polish folk art and drew upon folk tales from her childhood.
After her 1949 appearance, a reviewer wrote, "Being a woman of taste, imagination and musical culture, she won the cordial applause of her audience.
She was an expert on secondary succession of woodlands, about which she wrote several papers.
Mrs. Joshi went underground and, Dipankar De Sarkar wrote on Wednesday in the British newspaper The Guardian, she "helped make bombs, acted as a courier of messages and arms and ammunition and participated in numerous hit-and-run attacks on British targets.
"
        Julian Symons, the dean of British crime writing, who first promoted her work, wrote that "one closes most of her books -- and her equally powerful and chilling short stories -- with a feeling that the world is more dangerous than one had imagined.
In 1949, she moved to Paris, where she wrote a column for the Paris edition of The Herald Tribune.
"
        Julian Symons, the dean of British crime writing, who first promoted her work, wrote that "one closes most of her books -- and her equally powerful and chilling short stories -- with a feeling that the world is more dangerous than one had imagined.

        Vivian Verdell Gordon, who wrote about feminism, black families and affirmative action and who was a professor of black studies at the State University at Albany, died on Wednesday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany.
In a review for The New York Times, Ross Parmenter wrote that Ms. Bramson had provided "an absorbing evening of music" and that she "sang with distinction.
"
        Twenty years later, after another recital, Peter G. Davis wrote in The Times: "Very rarely does an unheralded singer stand comparison with international superstars.

        Mildred Henry Gross, who wrote for several radio drama serials popular during the 1940's and 50's, died on Tuesday in Stuart, Fla. She was 93.
Gross, who wrote under the name Mildred Henry Merrill, spent the early part of her career in Detroit, where she was a staff writer at the radio station WXYZ, the originating station for many shows broadcast over the ABC Network.
She wrote episodes for shows including "The Long Ranger," "The Green Hornet" and "Preston of the Yukon.
"
        In the mid-1950's, she moved to New York City, where she wrote for the radio shows "Official Detective," "Under Arrest" and "Bobby Benson," as well as a series for the Mutual Broadcasting Network called "Mr.
She wrote several novels, including "Life Without Father," "House Happy" and "The Girl in the Turquoise Bikini.
" She later wrote "Son of Any Wednesday," a reflection on the production of the play.

        Jo Sinclair, who wrote about the struggles of immigrant families in America, died on April 4 at her home in Jenkintown, Pa. She was 81.
Ms. Cleaver also wrote two novels under pseudonyms.
That year, Ms. Cleaver wrote "The Literary Agent and the Writer: A Professional Guide," published by The Writer Inc.
        She is survived by her brother, Barry Cleaver of Birmingham, England.
      
Professor Turkevich, who also held research positions at the Institute for Advanced Study and the Center for Theological Inquiry at Princeton and served as the president of the American Association of Teachers of Slavic and Eastern European Languages, wrote widely on Russian literature.
She and her husband were also instrumental in the translation and publication of the "Guide to Russian Scientific Literature" in the 1940's and wrote the textbook "Russian for the Scientist" (1959).
She was a vice president and director and wrote editorials while her husband was overseas during World War II.
"
        Years later, she wrote about their partnership, emphasizing that Astaire was no Svengali.
"I yearned for a long, happy marriage with one person," she wrote.
The latter, which she wrote with Bertram Bloch, starred Grace George, C. Aubrey Smith and Joseph Buloff.
In the 1930's and 40's she wrote for various magazines and for the North American Newspaper Alliance, and served as a naval correspondent in World War II.
She wrote "Poverty in Rural America: A Case Study" (Westview, 1981), which surveyed pockets of poverty in the vast stretches of forests and fields of upstate New York.
