Borrowing a slogan from the United Negro College Fund, she painstakingly wrote in each book, ''A mind is a terrible thing to waste.
After World War II she escaped to Taiwan, where she taught and wrote.
In addition to publishing many articles on psycholinguistics, Dr. Fromkin and Robert Rodman wrote ''An Introduction to Language'' (Harcourt Brace), now in its sixth edition and regarded as the seminal undergraduate textbook in the field.
''We all produce slips of the tongue,'' Dr. Fromkin wrote in 1980.
Shortly after earning her Ph.D. at 65, Ms. Rae wrote her first book, ''Edith Wharton's New York Quartet,'' a work of literary criticism about the writer, who with Eudora Welty served as Ms. Rae's inspiration.
''Now that she has inadvisedly been given an opportunity to act,'' wrote Bosley Crowther, reviewing ''Lady of the Tropics'' for The New York Times in 1939, ''it is necessary to report that she is essentially one of those museum pieces, like the Mona Lisa, who were more beautiful in repose.
'' She was, Kirstein wrote, ''proficient in the science and pursuit of the possible and impossible.
''I believe that students, especially beginners in this adventure, should be participants rather than spectators,'' she wrote.
In addition to writing about botanical topics for publications like the Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society in England, she wrote a 95-page children's book called ''The Adventure Book of Growing Plants.
She wrote of a boy named Johnny who despaired because his plants were thriving and healthy but lacked tomatoes.
''
        ''Johnny learned the hard way that a blossom is necessary to fruit production and that fruits lead to seed which in turn lead to new plants and more flowers,'' she wrote.
Peter G. Rowe, a Harvard professor of architecture, wrote about her work in his book ''Modernity and Housing.
'' A particularly interesting and praiseworthy achievement of hers, Professor Rowe wrote, was her innovative design of a standardized kitchen.
''It was a kitchen in the form of a laboratory, with specific types of work surfaces, drawers, and cabinets for specific functions and utensils,'' he wrote.
''People gang up to protect all kinds of things -- civil liberties, freedom of speech,'' Ms. Wolf once wrote.

        Mary Cantwell, who wrote essays, books and editorials for The New York Times, many about the changing public and private lives of women in America, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
As a member of The Times editorial board for 16 years, Ms. Cantwell wrote often about issues affecting women.
Such a rule, she wrote, would discourage effective contraception and increase teenage pregnancies.
''Thanks to the coinage,'' the columnist William Safire later wrote, ''the battle is being won by the anti-squeal forces.
''
        Apart from unsigned editorials, Ms. Cantwell wrote personal observations for The Times and elsewhere about the pride and pain brought by three decades of transformation in the lives of women, particularly in the spheres of work, marriage and divorce, and parenthood.
''
        Still, she wrote three.
A Times reader ''wrote in and said there is a small town in the background of everything I ever wrote, so why didn't I write about that small town,'' she said.
After ''American Girl,'' her readers wrote in again.
In 1981, she wrote ''Dear Abby,'' a widely quoted editorial about Evangeline Gouletas-Carey, the new wife of Hugh L. Carey, the governor of New York.
''
        She was struck by one Rhys observation: ''If I stop writing my life will have been an abject failure,'' Rhys wrote in ''Smile, Please,'' an autobiographical memoir.
''To earn one's death,'' she wrote, ''I think of it as a kind of parlor game.
She wrote frequently about Davis for scholarly journals and exhibition catalogs and contributed the article on Davis to the Macmillan Encyclopedia of Architects.
''Women buy Cashin clothes because they are cozy and comfortable, not because they bowl people over,'' the fashion writer Bernadine Morris wrote in The New York Times in 1968.
''
        ''They have an uncompromising integrity, freedom and joy,'' Mrs. Morris wrote.
She was decorated with France's Legion d'Honneur and wrote an autobiography called ''Vivre pour Voler,'' meaning living for flying.
'' James Watters wrote the text, which is delivered through Ms. Howard's first-person voice.
''These photographs bring back memories of a time and a place that have long since faded,'' Ms. Howard wrote in the book's introduction.

        Vivian Fine, a composer who wrote ballet scores for Martha Graham and Jose Limon, as well as copious amounts of orchestral, chamber and vocal music, died on Monday at the Southern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington after an automobile accident.
She later wrote ''Alcestis'' (1960) for Graham and ''My Son, My Enemy'' (1965) for Limon.
She earned extra money from various part-time jobs, and was eager to get involved when Florence Churchill, who was trying to raise three children with polio on a $125 monthly pension after her husband died in the line of duty, wrote her in 1960 about forming an organization to fight for higher payments to police widows.
In ''Tahl,'' she wrote:
        The spice conjoint of human ironies
        Palled on him more insipid than my game
        Of cards, my maundering on fate.
Mrs. Reed, who wrote some 250 compositions, ranging from songs to marches to operas, achieved her widest success with the 1953 pop song ''Oh, Happy Day,'' which she co-wrote with Don Howard Koplow.
Mrs. Reed also wrote a musical, ''Tocqueville!

        Beatrice Schenk de Regniers, an author whose ability to recreate the sensibilities of a child informed many well-loved books she wrote for young readers, died on March 1 at her home in Washington.
Mrs. de Regniers was born in Lafayette, Ind., and raised in nearby Crawfordsville, a place where, she wrote, a child could ''gather violets, live in a tree, walk in the woods -- be.
''
        Under the pseudonym Tamara Kitt (Tammy and Mara were her cats' names), Mrs. de Regniers also wrote a series of mass-market paperbacks, including ''Jake'' and ''Sam and the Impossible Thing.
She wrote two autobiographies, ''The Sands Ceased to Run'' (1947) and ''The Time of My Life'' (1987).
In addition to reconstructing and staging the dances, Dr. Brainard lectured and wrote for publications including the New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, the Dance Research Journal, the Harvard Dictionary of Music and Die Musikforschung.
Reviewing an exhibition of her life's work in 1979, Hilton Kramer wrote in The New York Times that she excelled in ''brilliant documentation rather than originality.
In a 1971 review of ''Trelawney,'' Walter Kerr of The Times wrote that ''Miss Von Scherler was rather like a fine painting propped in one corner; the rest of the room might be filled with attractive objects and engaging people, but your eye kept wandering back to her.
She and Robert Kimball edited ''The Complete Lyrics of Lorenz Hart'' (Knopf, 1986), containing some 670 of the songs Lorenz Hart wrote before his death in 1943.
''
        Mr. Short wrote that Mrs. Hart and Mr. Kimball, an expert on the musical theater, ''left no stone unturned in their search for every lyric ascribed to Hart,'' and ''what has been achieved here is something monumental.
''
        Mrs. Hart edited ''Thou Swell, Thou Witty'' (Da Capo, 1976) and wrote a memoir included in the book.
From washing windows to burnishing silverware to arranging buffet tables and processing customers' checks, no aspect of the workplace went untouched,'' J. W. Marriott Jr., wrote in his 1997 memoir, ''The Spirit to Serve: Marriott's Way.
''The old woman of Lila Kedrova is brilliantly realized, a wrinkled and tacky relic of a once successful coquette, still hopeful, audacious and courageous,'' Bosley Crowther wrote in his review of the 1964 film in The New York Times.
''I was very glad we did not meet any German patrols on our way,'' she wrote.
''
        To keep her fertile mind active, Ms. Trahey also gave lectures to professional women's organizations and wrote scores of magazine articles, novels, humorous pamphlets, a play and a self-help book called ''Jane Trahey on Women & Power: Who's Got It.
She also wrote of her youthful experiences in ''Life With Mother Superior,'' a novel that was made into a film called ''The Trouble with Angels'' starring Rosalind Russell and Hayley Mills.
Ms. Karl, who continued to edit books until recently, also wrote extensively, including nonfiction, fiction and science-fiction novels, mostly for children, under her own name, and other science fiction as R. W. Munson (her grandmother's name).

        Ulla Isaksson, who wrote screenplays for two Ingmar Bergman films and novels about women's issues, died on April 20 in Stockholm after a long illness.
''It is to the credit of the director and the scenarist that the drama, like life itself, does not come up with neatly contrived answers to all the problems posed,'' wrote A. H. Weiler in The New York Times when the film was introduced to American audiences in 1959.
''
        With her husband, Erik Hjalmar Linder, a critic, author and literary historian, Ms. Isaksson wrote what is widely considered to be the definitive biography of Elin Wagner, one of Sweden's earliest and foremost feminist novelists, who died in 1949.
When Mr. Linder was stricken with Alzheimer's disease, Ms. Isaksson wrote ''The Book About E,'' a memoir about caring for him.
Victoria Glendenning wrote in her 1983 biography, ''Vita: The Life of Vita Sackville-West,'' that by January 1932, the three women were in a menage a trois that ended later that year when Ms.
Max F. Perutz, the British biochemist who won the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1962, wrote that the discovery by the Benesches in 1966 ''opened a new era'' of knowledge about the respiratory system.
In a review of the anthology ''The Gift Outright: America and Her Poets'' (1977), Deborah Churchman wrote in The Christian Science Monitor that Mrs. Plotz was ''an outstanding collector of poems'' who included admirers and detractors in her compilation.
The widow of Edward Everett Tanner 3rd, who, as Patrick Dennis, wrote ''Auntie Mame,'' Ms. Tanner was herself the author of five books, including the novel ''Miss Bannister's Girls,'' inspired by her experiences as a student at Miss Chapin's, a New York finishing school.
In addition to two social histories  ''Here Today'' (1959) and ''All the Things We Were'' (1968), Ms. Tanner wrote two novels for young adults, ''Reggie and Nilma'' and ''Dr.
Although twice married and the mother of three, she did not really like being kissed or touched, wrote a biographer with whom she cooperated, Gwen Robyns.
''It was part of the strange complex which meant she was a virgin not only physically but also mentally and spiritually,'' Ms. Robyns wrote in 1985.
''All she knew was that she was close against him and he was kissing her wildly, passionately, demandingly and the world stood still,'' she wrote in ''Fire in the Blood,'' published in 1983.
She wrote so quickly that even her fans were not always in agreement as to how many titles she had produced at any given time.
Since mere typewriters could never keep up with her, she neatly avoided them and dictated her fiction to awestruck assistants who wrote furiously, backed up by tape recorders.
In addition to her books she wrote some 30 plays.
Asked why she wrote so much, she replied, ''I wanted the money.
In 1950 she moved into Camfield Place, a palace built in 1867, in which Beatrix Potter wrote ''The Tale of Peter Rabbit'' at the turn of the century.
She wrote so convincingly that honey was an aphrodisiac in ''The Magic of Honey,'' published in 1970, that a temporary shortage was created in Britain.
But despite her late start, Ms. Fitzgerald wrote 13 books, including biographies.
She later wrote a biography of her father and his brothers, ''The Knox Brothers,'' published in 1977.
She wrote ''The Beginning of Spring'' (1988), set in pre-Revolutionary Russia.
The strength of her performance was undeniable, Peter Watrous wrote in The New York Times.
''
        Dr. Turner, who was affectionately called Lady Wormwood, wrote more than 100 publications, almost all on shipworms, covering everything from their means of reproduction to how they bore into wood and how they dispersed over wide distances.
After receiving pictures she had taken of him, he wrote her: ''They are on the flattering side.
''The woman on the phone has the most delicious voice: low, slightly husky, completely inviting,'' Ruth Reichl wrote in 1994 in The New York Times of Ms. Trent's mellifluous tones.

        Anna Sosenko, the songwriter who wrote ''Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup,'' the manager of Hildegarde -- the legendary cabaret personality who made the song famous -- and the impresario of stage specials that featured such performers as Mary Martin and Ethel Merman, died Friday at her home in Manhattan.
Over the course of her career, Ms. Sosenko wrote the music and lyrics for more than 15 songs, among them ''I'll Be Yours,'' ''Ask Your Heart'' and ''Why Don't They Leave Us Alone?
Dr. Widdowson wrote it with her research partner of 60 years, Dr. R. A. McCance.
She was ''stern and forbidding, ruling the home with a rod of iron,'' Dr. Widdowson wrote.

        Rose Wyler, who wrote more than 50 books for children on science and other topics, died on June 12 at her home in Manhattan.
One of her best-known works is ''Spooky Tricks'' (1968), which she wrote with her husband Gerald Ames.
At her death she was professor emeritus of political science at the University of Arkansas, where she lectured and wrote from 1968 until her retirement three years ago.
''Eastern European Yiddish folk song,'' Mrs. Rubin wrote in the preface to ''Voices of a People,''  ''reflects vividly the life of a community of many millions over a period of many generations.
She graduated with a bachelor of arts degree from Vassar College in 1943, and became a journalist, then wrote on health and social policy for the federal government.

        Mary Benson, an author, journalist and political campaigner who wrote passionately about the struggle for racial equality in her native South Africa,  died at home in London on Monday, her literary agent, Felicity Bryan, said.
Passionate about films and bored by life at home, she traveled to Hollywood on a cargo ship as a teenager, using a mix of charm and determination to win interviews with Jimmy Stewart and other movie stars, about whom she then wrote.
Among other projects, Miss Benson also edited Athol Fugard's ''Notebooks'' and wrote a number of radio plays for the BBC.
''It reminds me of all the great help you gave to me and my family while I was in prison,'' he wrote.
Mrs. Robbins also wrote about a dozen cookbooks, including ''25 Vegetables Anyone Can Grow'' (Crowell, 1942) and ''How to Cook Well'' (Crowell, 1946), and she collaborated on ''The Dione Lucas Meat and Poultry Cook Book'' (Little Brown, 1955).
''
        In a letter supporting her nomination, Henry Louis Gates Jr. of Harvard University wrote that Ms. Christian ''has emerged as the senior figure among African-American feminists.
'' she wrote in the National Guardian at the time.
''Some, more disturbed, under constant stress, decompensated or engaged in provocative behavior, putting themselves and others at risk,'' Dr. Martin wrote in an autobiographical essay.
In his 1972 book, ''The Making of a Black Revolutionary,'' James Forman wrote a personal inscription in the copy he gave Dr. Martin.
''Our transmitter was the link between the partisans and the Soviet Union,'' she wrote.
For him, he once wrote, it was ''love at first sight; she had a very good figure.
Mrs. Maxwell published short articles and reminiscences in The New Yorker, and from 1957 to 1965, she wrote year-end reviews of children's books for the magazine's Christmas list.
One of them, ''The Old Man at the Railroad Crossing and Other Tales'' (1957), is a collection of fables he wrote for her, some as bedtime stories when she couldn't sleep, and others as Christmas gifts for the family.
For a designer who did not have a store, who often met her future clients at clubs or outside restaurants, and who, until the editor Andre Leon Talley wrote about her in Vogue last year, was almost unknown in the fashion world, Ms. Battle had a large following.
In a career that spanned five decades, she wrote 14 novels, 4 collections of short fiction and 18 one-act plays.
''
        During the 1960's and 70's Ms. Molinaro wrote a series of one-act plays and translated works by such authors as Hermann Hesse, Nathalie Sarraute and Christa Wolf for publication in English.
''We had never heard of such poverty and despair,'' Mrs. Holt later wrote in ''The Seed from the East,'' one of her four books on adoption.
In her memoir, she wrote: ''I believe that if we have lived our lives fully and well, and have accomplished, at least in part, the things which we were put here to do, we will be prepared -- mentally, spiritually and physically -- for our separation from this world.
Later, in New York, she wrote for True Crimes magazine.
''The majority of the museums in America are small,'' Ms. Gatling once wrote.
The publishing house's head, Dr. Siegfried Unseld, wrote after her death, ''Her commitment to spreading German literature in other languages is legendary.
A noted German author from a later generation, Martin Walser, recalled, in a remembrance that he wrote for the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung: ''Outside Germany one heard that she was a harsh negotiating partner.
Under Ms. Quinn's system, as opera buffs arrived, many as early as 4 or 5 a.m., they wrote their names on a numbered list on her clipboard, then went home or to a coffee shop across the street, leaving Ms. Quinn to wait in their place.
''
        Ms. Moyes wrote 19 mysteries, including ''Dead Men Don't Ski'' (1959), ''Death on the Agenda'' (1962), ''Murder a la Mode'' (1963), ''Murder Fantastical'' (1967), ''Falling Star'' (1964), ''Johnny Underground'' (1965) and ''Death and the Dutch Uncle'' (1968).
She also wrote ''Many Deadly Returns,'' which was published in 1970 and won the Edgar Allan Poe Special Award from the Mystery Writers of America, as well as ''Angel Death'' (1980), ''Black Girl, White Girl'' (1991) and ''Twice in a Blue Moon'' (1993).
In the Women's Auxiliary Air Force, she wrote revue sketches for barrack concerts and a movie script for an R.A.F.
From 1958 to 1962, she was an assistant editor for British Vogue and wrote the ''Shophound'' column for the magazine.
In 1959 Ms. Moyes wrote her first novel, ''Dead Men Don't Ski,'' on a whim, introducing Chief Superintendent Henry Tibbet and Emmy, a British sleuthing couple.
Ms. Moyes, a cat fanatic who was deeply involved a project to control the breeding of feral cats in the Virgin Islands, also wrote ''After All, They're Only Cats'' in 1973 and ''How to Talk to Your Cat'' in 1991, which the crime columnist for The New York Times Book Review, Marilyn Stasio, called ''an affectionate little book about cat behavior.
''
        Ms. Moyes once confessed her writing secret, The Times of London noted: she wrote, she said, ''for my own pleasure.
''
        When she danced in that ''Bolero'' at the Uris Theater in New York in 1977, one critic, Hubert Saal, wrote in a review in Newsweek: ''To Ravel's subtly inflected score, for 15 nonstop, spellbinding minutes, a wood nymph named Angele Albrecht, on a platform surrounded by 40 staring men, embodies female sexuality in a dance made up in equal parts of spring rites, Hindu mysteries and the hootchy-kootchy.
In 1977, after she was, with Daniel Lommel, one of the two featured dancers in a performance of Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring'' at the Uris Theater, Don McDonagh wrote in a review in The New York Times that Stravinsky's ''wistful and brutal'' ballet ''has become a rite de passage for choreographers attracted to its rhythmic intricacies.
She wrote about this in her 1969 book, ''Soul Sister,'' in which she described the anonymity and degradation of being a black domestic in a world of white employers, one of whom tried to rape her.
''Soul Sister'' was followed in 1973 by ''Bessie Yellowhair,'' based on her life on a Navajo reservation and as a American Indian nanny for a Los Angeles family, and in 1978 by ''The Illegals,'' in which she wrote of crossing the border with a group of Mexican immigrants.
''I never felt anything I did was anything at all compared to his stories,'' she wrote in her 1996 autobiography, ''In Their Shoes.
Jack Hitt, a journalist who grew up in Charleston across the street from Mrs. Simmons and wrote about her for GQ magazine, remembered her as a figure with a piercing stare, a pillbox hat and ''a Dippity-Do hairstyle -- a dowdy doppelganger of Jackie Kennedy.
''Had she lived a little longer, Vita would have been intrigued to know that the child 'Dinky,' as she called me, would become a real-life Orlando,'' Mrs. Simmons wrote in her memoir, ''Dawn: A Charleston Legend,''(1995, Wyrick & Company).
''
        He also wrote books about Princess Margaret, Jacqueline Kennedy and American Evangelism.
''I have maligned her in the past, mocked her strange fate and refused to meet her,'' he wrote.
''She had asked me for help in arranging an English marriage,'' he wrote, ''and when she called on me, I hid.
''Because the impetus is exactly right, she strikes you as dancing her whole number on an impulse, spontaneously for the joy of it,'' the critic Edwin Denby wrote of her.
During the Depression, she wrote a popular how-to book, ''More House for Your Money'' (Morrow).
'' She also wrote several books for children, but it was not until she started her television career as a co-presenter of ''The Tube,'' a show about music, that she became a celebrity in her own right, affecting a bubbleheaded, giggly personality that belied her sharp intelligence, friends said.
He was too busy, but, as Miss Travers wrote almost a half-century later, on a friend's mantle she saw a Christmas card that had ''a happy imperfection, a sense of wonder.
''At that time, in 1968, very much married to Howard, she lived in splendid solitude on Bel Air Road, atop a peak of the Santa Monica Mountains, under 24-hour surveillance of guards who followed her everywhere,'' he wrote.
''  After that, she made only rare guest appearances on television series like ''Murder, She Wrote.
Although Ms. Reinach wrote more than 50 books and 600 songs, several musical shows and educational productions and contributed to Shari Lewis's television series ''Lamb Chop Play Along'' on PBS, she was best known for the ''Sweet Pickles'' books first published in 1976.
She wrote scripts for the Fran Allison ''Learn at Home'' television series and worked with Shari Lewis on a series of ''Headstart'' books for McGraw-Hill.
She won an Emmy in 1993 for a young people's anti-smoking program, ''Know the Facts: Keep Your Power,'' and wrote and produced a traveling school program for the American Heart Association.
(That year she also wrote a 300-recipe feminist cookbook: ''How to Enjoy the Leisure Life in a Beach House, Mountain Cabin, Lake Shack, Ski Chalet, Trailer, Country Home or City Apartment.
She wrote about 150 scientific papers and edited several books on the subject, including ''The Vertebrate Neuromuscular Junction.
A longtime seminary instructor in the United States, she wrote widely used textbooks and church histories for use by emigres and lived to see them published in Russia, where she visited and lectured in the last few years of her life.
''Now I had again come briefly in touch with life there and suddenly I realized that there was no absolute break, no complete separation,'' she wrote.
Ms. Bullaty wrote about her mentor in a 1978 book, ''Sudek.
The book ''stays within the boundaries of Provence, concentrating on the author's native city, Nice,'' Ms. Sheraton wrote.
''
        In working on that book, Mrs. Johnston recalled last year, ''I wrote a sort of cookbook about my experiences, and I realized food was the key to so much -- a way of observing pleasures and economic trends in society.
She wrote two volumes, based on the series and bearing its title, about French regional cuisines and cultures.
She attended Swarthmore College, where she wrote fiction and started a life of letters.
''  During a half century with the magazine, she wrote more than 260 articles, along with three short stories and four poems.
''She wrote about the city and City Hall as if it were a passing parade, with a great sense of irony and wit,'' said David Remnick, the editor of the New Yorker.
While her column, About City Hall, appeared from 1969 to 1994 and she was the acknowledged dean of the City Hall press corps for the last 20 years of that time, she wrote about municipal affairs both before and after the life of the column.
      
After his death in 1972, Mrs. Dyk took transcripts of taped conversations and other research and wrote ''Left Handed,'' a continuation of the first book.
During her third year at Wellesley, she visited her aunt, the writer Mary Austin, in Santa Fe, N.M., where she was introduced into the circle of D. H. Lawrence, Lynn Riggs, Sinclair Lewis and Willa Cather, whom she chauffeured around while Cather wrote ''Death Comes for the Archbishop.
Dr. Rotker-Martinez wrote several books, both in Spanish and in English, as well as book chapters, articles, professional papers and reviews.
''I wrote about what I saw and heard in the street,'' Ms. Brooks once said.
''Miss Brooks has a command over both the colloquial and the more austere rhythms,'' the critic Rolfe Humphries wrote in The New York Times Book Review about the poems in ''A Street in Bronzeville.
''Full of insight and wisdom and pity, technically dazzling,'' Phyllis McGinley wrote in The Times Book Review.
''
        Ms. Brooks wrote a novel, ''Maud Martha,'' which received scant consideration when it was published in 1953.
Mr. Hughes, who would become her friend and longtime supporter, wrote back: ''You have talent.
''
        She later wrote: ''If it hadn't been for these young people, these young writers who influenced me, I wouldn't know what I know about this society.
In a volume that was described by one critic as ''her declaration of independence'' from the integrationist pursuit that had previously shaped her work, Ms. Brooks wrote about the desperate and tragic lives of the inhabitants of the Mecca.
She wrote from experience.
''
        She also made guest appearances on more than 100 television shows, including ''Gunsmoke'' and ''Murder, She Wrote.
Among them was a chilling account of the Salzburg Festival in 1938: ''Swastikas and pictures of Hitler smothered the renowned Baroque buildings, and native restaurateurs, whose cheerful 'Gruss Gott' used to lessen the blow of a large bill, now shouted morosely, 'Heil Hitler,' as their patrons left without leaving a tip,'' she wrote.
''The translator,'' Mrs. Martin wrote in The Times in 1948, ''derives a great degree of satisfaction from helping to present an opera to American audiences in the way both the composer and his librettist intended, namely, as a drama set to music, which may be enjoyed without reference to the libretto in intermissions.
''
        Mrs. Martin also wrote articles on opera for Opera News, Aria and Theater Arts.
She also wrote ''Small Gardens for City and Country'' (1978) and two books published in 1991 for W. Atlee Burpee & Company, ''Designs for American Gardens'' and ''Garden Designs,'' which included her popular planting plans, originally published in Burpee catalogs.
She was married for 59 years to William Corbin McGraw, who wrote for children as William Corbin.
''Unpretentious, inimitable, writes like a playwright, sings like an angel,'' the songwriter Billy Bragg wrote for her 1995 compilation album, ''Galore'' (I.R.S.).
''We were taught very early in the game that we didn't have to respect the teachers, and if they threatened to hit us, we could act as if they weren't anybody we had to pay any attention to,'' she wrote.
''I find that the higher you aim, the better you shoot,'' she wrote.
''Handling the Holiday and Parker estates taught me more than I was really ready for about government and business delinquency and the hostility and helplessness of the courts,'' she wrote.
''Grass-roots organizing is like climbing into bed with a malaria patient in order to show how much you love him or her, then catching malaria yourself,'' she wrote.
''I went berserk,'' she wrote.
''Why would you lock yourself in the bathroom just because you have to go three times a day,'' she wrote.
In her autobiography, she wrote: ''I'm just a loud-mouthed, middle-aged colored lady with a fused spine and three feet of intestines missing, and a lot of people think I'm crazy.
'' Among its jewels is a Venetian manuscript from 1475, which, Mr. Claiborne wrote, ''is believed to be the first cookbook ever printed.
A former freelance writer, she wrote three books on food and etiquette.
She dropped out of Purdue University while still in her teens and wrote advertising and radio copy in Chicago and radio scripts for ''The Elsa Maxwell Show'' in New York.
She also contributed articles to children's magazines and cookbooks and wrote a novel for young adults, ''The Great Venture'' (1963).
''I wrote about what I saw and heard in the street,'' Ms. Brooks once said.
''Miss Brooks has a command over both the colloquial and the more austere rhythms,'' the critic Rolfe Humphries wrote in The New York Times Book Review about the poems in ''A Street in Bronzeville.
''Full of insight and wisdom and pity, technically dazzling,'' Phyllis McGinley wrote in The Times Book Review.
''
        Ms. Brooks wrote a novel, ''Maud Martha,'' which received scant consideration when it was published in 1953.
Mr. Hughes, who would become her friend and longtime supporter, wrote back: ''You have talent.
''
        She later wrote: ''If it hadn't been for these young people, these young writers who influenced me, I wouldn't know what I know about this society.
In a volume that was described by one critic as ''her declaration of independence'' from the integrationist philosophy that had previously shaped her work, Ms. Brooks wrote about the desperate and tragic lives of the inhabitants of the Mecca.
She wrote from experience.
But, as The New York Times wrote at the time, ''Black that no mother could object to, for it was made with snug bodice and as full a dirndl as the law permits.
''
        The fashion historian Richard Martin once wrote, ''Long before rock 'n' roll and James Dean movies, Emily Wilkens invented the American teenager, pegging her sensibility to young, playful, energetic women.
'' She wrote four more books on beauty and grooming and served as a trustee of the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York from 1966 to 1976.
''
        Ms. Cooke wrote a series about the exploitation of domestic workers.
