Le Clercq became a teacher at Dance Theater of Harlem, wrote two books and frequently attended dance performances.
Robbins wrote her every day during the first year of her illness.
But even in 1959, B. H. Haggin, a critic who was especially devoted to the ballerina, wrote that for some spectators, there was ''an aching feeling of loss over the absence of Le Clercq from the works in which they had watched the development of her extraordinary powers as a dancer and as a stage personality.
She also wrote articles and served as its United Nations observer.
Dr. Horstmann died as the World Health Organization was on the verge of eradicating polio and four days after the death of Dr. Joseph L. Melnick of Houston, another polio pioneer with whom she worked and wrote scholarly papers.
She wrote four novels, including ''The Dividing of Time'' and ''Now Bless Thyself,'' the latter about life in academe.
''
        Robert Bogdan, a sociologist at Syracuse University who wrote the 1998 book ''Freak Show: Presenting Human Oddities for Amusement and Profit,'' said that Miss Pushnik came along during the transition between the old it's-all-right-to-stare attitude and a newer view that people with deformities should be looked at, if at all, as medical case studies.
''
        In the years that followed, Mrs. Nauts wrote thousands of letters to doctors and patients who had used her husband's methods, seeking specifics about their cases.
She also wrote papers on psychological subjects ranging from alcoholism to juvenile delinquency.
In 1959, Miss Anscombe wrote ''An Introduction to Wittgenstein's ''Tractatus,'' which traced his work to Gottlob Frege and Bertrand Russell.
A. J. Ayer, in his book ''Wittgenstein,'' wrote, ''I can think of no one but Elizabeth Anscombe who has made an original contribution to philosophy on the basis of Wittgenstein's teaching.
She also wrote about Plato.
''
        In 1957 she wrote ''Intention,'' a blend of Aristotle's and Wittgenstein's philosophy, linking ethical ideas and behavior to a theory of intention and action.
The next year she wrote an influential essay on morality, ''Modern Moral Philosophy,'' which was later published in her three-volume ''Collected Philosophical Papers'' (1981).
Miss Anscombe and Mr. Geach also produced a book together, ''Three Philosophers''; he wrote on Aquinas and Frege, she on Aristotle.
In the Times Literary Supplement, the critic Mary Tiles wrote, ''Anscombe's willingness to question what many have taken for granted .
''
        Mrs. Kenward became a fixture in London society as much as for her decorous look as for what she wrote in ''Jennifer's Diary.

        Arlene Eisenberg, who with her two daughters wrote ''What to Expect When You're Expecting,'' which became known as the pregnancy bible, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
The day before it was due, Mrs. Eisenberg sat at the typewriter and wrote the entire piece, which with a few revisions, was accepted.
The two wrote articles together for many popular magazines, including The Ladies' Home Journal, McCall's and Sports Illustrated.
Ms. Jaffe later wrote the best seller ''The Best of Everything,'' about young women in publishing, and included a character inspired by Ms. Levy.
Both books remain in print, as does a selection from ''The Global Citizen,'' the weekly syndicated column she wrote.
''Nothing had been prepared or planned for this rushed and forced evacuation,'' she wrote in 1983 in a new edition of her book, ''Citizen 13660'' (University of Washington Press), which originally appeared in 1946.
''Because of the injustices and contradictions nothing made much sense'' in the camps, she wrote in 1983, but in them she had the opportunity ''to see what happens to people when reduced to one status and condition.
''
        She wrote in 1983 that the book had begun ''as a special group of drawings made to tell the story of camp life for my many friends who faithfully sent letters and packages to let us know we were not forgotten.
Ms. Wright wrote eight more books about Edith and the bears.
Their daughter Reeve Lindbergh wrote in her 1998 memoir ''Under a Wing'' (Simon & Schuster) that her mother had suffered adverse effects from her advancing age and from strokes and was ''often confused in her mind, and in fragile health.
''He is taller than anyone else,'' she wrote in her diary.
''At 10 Betty went in to the baby, shut the window, then lit the electric stove, then turned to the bed; it was empty, and the sides still up,'' Mrs. Lindbergh wrote later in a letter to her mother-in-law.
They had always been ''intensely private persons with an austere, restrained, glowingly creative sense of life,'' Mr. Kazin wrote.
The historian Geoffrey C. Ward wrote in 1998 that '''Gift From the Sea' became a source of inspiration for a whole generation of wives and mothers -- 'the great vacationless class,' she called them -- who, like herself, were beginning to search for more fulfilling lives once their children had grown and moved away.
''
        Lewis Gannett wrote that her 1938 best seller, ''Listen!
She wrote that she did not endorse communism or fascism, but that she saw them as inevitable effects of what she called the ''wave of the future.
And, in a letter, she wrote that she was beginning to feel that Hitler was ''a very great man, like an inspired religious leader -- and as such rather fanatical -- but not scheming, not selfish, not greedy for power.
''
        In later years, Walter S. Ross wrote in his 1967 biography ''The Last Hero: Charles A. Lindbergh'' that the book ''took so astral a view of the world that it made the crimes of the Nazis seem to bulk no larger than the inadequacies'' of the democracies.
Reeve Lindbergh wrote in her book that years later her mother told her: ''If only he had listened to me.
''
        Later Mrs. Lindbergh wrote in her diary: ''He is attacked on all sides, Administration, pressure groups, and Jews, as now openly a Nazi, following a Nazi doctrine.
''
        Mrs. Lindbergh wrote that before her marriage she had seen her husband-to-be more or less as ''a knight in shining armor, with myself as his devoted page.
''Everything is telescoped now into one moment, one of those eternal moments -- the moment when I realized that the baby had been taken,'' she wrote in her diary.
In that ''first flash of horror,'' she wrote, she had seen in her mind's eye ''the baby dead, killed violently.
Mr. Ross, the Lindbergh biographer, wrote that when, after the dinner, Lindbergh showed the medal-box to his wife, ''she opened it and glanced at the medal and looked away.
After the birth of each of their six children, Mr. Berg wrote, Lindbergh would take his wife away on long plane journeys, some lasting weeks, as a way of ''weaning'' her from her children.
Summing up, Mr. Berg wrote that the couple's relationship was ''a complex case history of control and repression, filled with joy and passion and grief and rage.
''
        Falling in Love With Other Men
        In the summer of 1939, Mr. Berg wrote, Mrs. Lindbergh, ''living less with Charles than through him, only knew that she was feeling incomplete and unfulfilled -- and mildly depressed.
Mrs. Lindbergh suffered from depression and in defiance of her husband had daily psychotherapy sessions for a time, wrote Susan Hertog, a freelance journalist and photographer, in her biography ''Anne Morrow Lindbergh'' (Doubleday, 1999).
In ''Lindbergh'' Mr. Berg wrote that she became close to Dr. Dana W. Atchley, an internist affiliated with Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan, who also had a difficult marriage.
''The friendship of these two longing souls blossomed into a love affair in 1956,'' Mr. Berg wrote, ''and continued for the next few years.
Reeve's baby was known as Jonny, and she wrote in her book: ''Jonny too died in the night, and I, like my mother before me, was apart from my son during his last moments.
''
        Jonny's death, while he and his mother were staying with Anne Morrow Lindbergh in Connecticut, was caused by ''a seizure related to infant encephalitis,'' his mother wrote.
''How that spurious cowhand can be content to kiss a horse when he has Miss Evans on the lot every day I cannot imagine,'' Robert C. Ruark wrote in The World-Telegram in 1946, ''but the inflexible law of westerns is that the hero shall never smooch the heroine.
After he died, Miss Evans wrote a book, ''Salute to Sandy.
She wrote or composed more than 25 songs, including ''Aha, San Antone,'' which sold more than 200,000 copies, and ''The Bible Tells Me So.
''Our work together was a continuous revelation,'' she wrote in her autobiography, and added that after Humphrey's death in 1958: ''She inhabits me.
Reviewing a Limón concert for Dance magazine in 1955, the critic Doris Hering wrote that ''Pauline Koner was like some fiery bacchante as she tore through leaps and sharp shifts in direction.
She received a Dance Magazine Award in 1964 and wrote for many dance publications.
As a television producer, she worked with Phil Donahue on several programs and developed, wrote and produced ''The Human Animal,'' a five-part series on human behavior first broadcast by NBC in 1986.
''
        A writer of light verse and memoirs that plumbed her own life, Mrs. Bevington wrote about her world travels, her romance and marriage to her husband, Merle M. Bevington, and even the small-town love affairs of her Methodist minister father.
Hammer, a historian who wrote an influential book about Indochina and Vietnam before the Vietnam War, died on Jan. 28 in New York City.
Mr. Pike, who went to South Vietnam in 1960 as a Foreign Service officer, said Dr. Hammer wrote one of the few books that people arriving in that era found valuable: ''The Struggle for Indochina'' (1954), which examined the struggle for freedom from France.
In a review of a book she wrote in 1987, ''A Death in November: America in Vietnam, 1963,'' Thomas Omestad wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''The title of this carefully researched book refers to the death of Ngo Dinh Diem, president of South Vietnam from 1955 to 1963, and that of his brother and adviser, Ngo Dinh Nhu.
In a review of a book she wrote in 1987, ''A Death in November: America in Vietnam, 1963,'' Thomas Omestad wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''The title of this carefully researched book refers to the death of Ngo Dinh Diem, president of South Vietnam from 1955 to 1963, and that of his brother and adviser, Ngo Dinh Nhu.
She wrote her particular footnote to history in 1922 in the Broadway show ''Liza, '' an all-black revue with lyrics and music by Maceo Pinkard.
Referring to the slow pace or static quality of some of her solos, the American critic George Beiswanger wrote that she would occasionally ''crawl and writhe like a slug or an upended caterpillar, hardly moving at all.
''All parts of her dancing body were granted equal importance,'' Horace Engdahl wrote in ''Swedish Ballet and Dance'' (Swedish Institute, 1992).
Her mother, Sara Fina Gutierrez Tafoya, or Autumn Leaf, was ''undoubtedly the outstanding Tewa potter of her time,'' Mary Ellen and Laurence Blair wrote in ''Margaret Tafoya: A Tewa Potter's Heritage and Legacy'' (Schiffer, 1986).
Dame Ninette also wrote poetry, although she seldom published it.
After she retired she wrote two books about the circus, and led the examination committee of the Moscow Circus School.
'' Reviewing the production in The New York Times, Clive Barnes wrote that Ms. Premice ''can almost make a feather boa come alive.
When she portrayed the sixth wife in ''Bluebeard,'' he wrote, ''She dances the role excellently and plays it with charm and a nice comedy sense.
''
        When she was cast in the mime role of Giselle's mother in 1944, Mr. Martin wrote, ''Who should turn up but Maria Karnilova, of all people, playing delightfully and obviously having the time of her life.
She wrote at length about Chinese dissidents, often befriending them when they visited the West, said Merle Goldman, a professor of Chinese history at Boston University.
When Mr. MacFarquhar accepted an offer to be chairman of the Harvard government department, Mrs. MacFarquhar wrote for The Economist from Cambridge until joining U.S. News in 1986 as foreign editor.
''The assessment of suicidal patients remains an art and cannot be reduced to a checklist,'' she wrote in 1999 in the journal The Psychiatric Clinics of North America.

        Vera Sandomirsky Dunham, who wrote extensively on Russian prose and poetry, died on March 22 in Cambridge, Mass.
In ''The Girls in the Balcony,'' (Random House, 1992) Nan Robertson, a former reporter for The Times, wrote of the obstacles that women in Washington journalism faced in the 1960's.
''Maggie Hunter recalled the day she started a little mutiny at The New York Times bureau because of the balcony,'' Ms. Robertson wrote.
In a review of an Ellington concert that year, John S. Wilson wrote in The New York Times: ''In the few weeks that she has been with the band, Miss Moore begun to become part of the Ellington sound.
And her cabaret shows, which she wrote herself, featured rich anecdotal histories of the songwriters whose work she performed.
And her cabaret shows, which she wrote herself, featured rich anecdotal histories of the songwriters whose work she performed.
Dr. Thompson researched and wrote extensively on Hellenistic terra-cotta figurines, small statuettes that were ubiquitous in Greece in the second and third centuries B.C.
Dr. Thompson wrote more than 50 scholarly papers and books on her excavation work, including the book ''An Ancient Shopping Center: The Athenian Agora,'' published in 1971.
In 1954 she assessed the role of women in America and wrote that women seeking to combine marriage with a career need strong mental health and an ability to solve problems.
Dr. Robert Perloff, the distinguished service professor emeritus of psychology and business administration at the University of Pittsburgh, said that Dr. Anastasi, who wrote more than 150 scholarly books, monographs and articles, brought to the issue a balanced, deeply rational perspective and an insistence on solid science.
She was influenced, she wrote in an autobiography, by the teaching of Harry Hollingworth, for many years chairman of the psychology department at Barnard, and by the writings of Charles Spearman, an English psychologist and statistician who developed the ''two-factor'' theory of intelligence.
During that decade, she wrote jazz reviews for Downbeat and other publications, worked for the management organizations of Duke Ellington and Louis Armstrong and promoted and booked Chick Webb's touring band.
In 1971 she wrote ''Stormy Monday'' (Lightning Press), a biography of the blues musician Aaron (T-Bone) Walker.
''My decision has been arrived at after many years of contemplation, not quickly or casually,'' she wrote in a letter.
In 1973, she married Wilbur H. Ferry, a foundation employee who wrote books on the problems of a capitalist society.
Dr. Hofmann and Dr. Donald Graydanus wrote the authoritative textbook ''Adolescent Medicine.
She also wrote ''The Hospitalized Adolescent'' (1976), which received an American Nurses Association award, and ''Consent and Confidentiality in Child and Adolescent Care'' (1984).
''Multiple births should not be confused with entertainment, nor should they be an opportunity to sell products,'' she and her two surviving quintuplets wrote in an open letter to the parents of the McCaughey septuplets that was published in Time magazine in 1997.
Ms. Verey wrote more than a dozen garden books including ''The Classic Garden'' and ''The Garden in Winter,'' which were seminal works for Americans interested in design and sophisticated use of plants, with color and texture year-round.
Nora Ephron, in her review of the best-selling memoir in The New York Times Book Review, wrote of Mrs. Graham, ''The story of her journey from daughter to wife to widow to woman parallels to a surprising degree the history of women in this century.
'' Mrs. Graham did not object because she knew how important it was to her father to keep The Post in the family, and, she wrote, ''in those days, of course, the only possible heir would have been a male.
''Our relationship resembled that of a chief executive officer Phil and a chief operating officer me,'' Mrs. Graham wrote in her memoir.
''I increasingly saw my role as the tail to his kite and the more I felt overshadowed, the more it became a reality,'' Mrs. Graham wrote.
) Mrs. Graham wrote that she was startled when her friend Luvie Pearson, the wife of the columnist Drew Pearson, told her to run the paper herself.
She wrote, ''For one magic night I was transformed.
Mrs. Graham later wrote: ''Frightened and tense, I took a big gulp and said, 'Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead.
At the beginning of the next year the Watergate burglars pleaded guilty, and one of them, hoping to get a more lenient sentence, wrote to John J. Sirica, a federal district judge, to inform him that perjury had been committed and that higher-ups were behind the break-in.
Mrs. Graham later wrote: ''Without the tapes, the true story would never have emerged.
''Worry, if not gone altogether, no longer haunts you in the middle of the night,'' she wrote.
In her autobiography, ''Aveline: the Life and Dream of the Woman Behind Macrobiotics Today'' (Japan Publications, 1988), Ms. Kushi wrote that she and her husband discovered ''there was almost no good food'' in the United States.
''We would have to make wonderful food available to everybody ourselves,'' she wrote.
Ms. Kushi taught cooking and wrote cookbooks, helping to popularize Japanese ingredients like miso, soy sauce and tofu among Americans.
She was plagued by health problems and had been confined for some time to her home, where she had lived since high school and where she wrote most of her stories, novels, essays, memoirs and book reviews.
''It had been startling and disappointing to me to find out that storybooks had been written by people, that books were not natural wonders, coming up of themselves like grass,'' she wrote.
''It took Latin to thrust me into a bona fide alliance with words in their true meaning,'' she wrote.
''Long before I wrote stories, I listened for stories,'' she wrote in 1984.
''Long before I wrote stories, I listened for stories,'' she wrote in 1984.
Back in Jackson in the early 1930's, Miss Welty wrote for a radio station and contributed society items to The Commercial Appeal in Memphis.
There had been so many stories about such a character in the stock manner, written by people who didn't know the South, so I wrote about the murderer intimately -- in the first person, which was a very daring thing for me to do.
''
        In 1943, Faulkner wrote an unsolicited letter to Miss Welty after he had by chance read ''The Robber Bridegroom.
''She imbues in the youngsters a sense of friendliness, confidence and faith that is truly magical television,'' The New York Times television critic, Jack Gould, wrote that year.
''
        ''The program is too important in too many homes to be allowed to go astray through regrettable short-sightedness,'' he wrote.
''A set of stereotypes has grown up that older persons are sick, poor, enfeebled, isolated and desolated,'' she wrote much later, in 1975, in an article for The New York Times.
A new generation of older people, whom she called the young-old, could be distinguished from the middle-aged primarily by retirement and from the old-old by vigor and social involvement, she wrote.
Older people should not be seen as the expendables of society but instead as the social contributors as well as the self-fulfilled, she wrote in The Times.
''
        In her later work, she wrote of an increasing antagonism toward older people for occupying ''a growing number of power positions,'' and she urged fellow social scientists to explore ways to avoid such resentment.
She wrote many papers and books about adult development and the relations between age groups, including the widely recognized ''Personality in Middle and Late Life,'' published in 1964.
Besides her books, she wrote numerous magazine articles and book reviews.
In the 1950's she wrote for Steve Allen's ''Tonight'' show on NBC.
'' Olin Downes, reviewing the performance in The New York Times, wrote that ''she interpreted the Aida part with a complete grasp of its dramatic and lyrical elements, prevailingly with beauty and color of tone, with ample sonority and with the style of a musician.
Ms. Jansson wrote eight novels and four picture books about the Moomins that came out between 1945 and 1970.
)
        When Ms. Jansson's ''Moominsummer Madness,'' in which the Moomins are threatened by floodwaters, came out in the United States in 1961, Pamela Marsh wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Ms. Jansson had created ''an entirely new world full of cheery dauntless little creatures.
A. Milne, who wrote ''Winnie-the-Pooh.
During that period she also wrote short stories and novels for adults as well as reminiscences.
Ms. Yates published her first book in 1938 and wrote more than 50 others into the mid-1990's.
She also wrote an autobiographical trilogy and biographies of some strong-willed people.
Miss Loriod also took ample advantage of two further masterworks that Messiaen wrote for the instrument.
Other composers who wrote for the instrument included Arthur Honegger, Darius Milhaud, Edgard Varèse, Charles Koechlin, Florent Schmitt and Jacques Ibert.
She taught at several French conservatories and wrote a three-volume book that became the standard text for the instrument: ''Technique de l'Onde Electronique Type Martenot'' (Leduc, 1987).
''Since 1928 we have 15 concertos and over 300 works of chamber music,'' she answered, also citing the 85 she wrote for her sextet.
'' Mark Singer wrote in ''The Wire'' in 1997.
Often lonely as a child, she wrote poetry and dreamed of becoming an artist or, at the very least, the local May Queen.
''Even in midflight,'' he wrote, ''she has the patience to sit on a line, to isolate it, and nail it to the floor.
Michiko Kakutani, in a review in The New York Times, wrote that ''Adam's Task'' ''emerges, at once, as an informed defense of animals' capacity for understanding and commitment and a philosophical meditation on the nature of learning, responsibility and language.
''
        Yi-Fu Tuan, in a review of ''Adam's Task'' in The New York Times Book Review, wrote that Ms. Hearne went ''out of her way to test her reader's credulity.
'' He cited the book's example of a pit bull named Belle, who, he wrote, was ''capable of sizing people up 'not as bite prospects, but as problems in moral philosophy and metaphysics.
''
        And Ms. Hearne, addressing the topic from a different slant, wrote in 1984: ''These days, there is a rule among scientists against attributing human traits to animals.
In her poem ''The Bull Terrier,'' she wrote:
        Their legs and backs
        Should seem to be
        Merely the motive
        Power for the low
        Broad, implacable
        Jaw.
''Even in the most bulldoggy'' of pit bulls, she wrote, recalling the dog, ''there is something -- a sprightliness in the stance, some suggestion of the possibilities of tap dancing and vaudeville, some impish gleam of the eye to suggest the terrier.
She did that so well that Sports Illustrated once wrote that she was ''most likely to be remembered as the woman who, perhaps more than any other athlete, brought crossover credibility to the disabled sports movement.
The movie's crosses and double- crosses were nowhere nearly as opaque as those of ''The Maltese Falcon,'' but when Bosley Crowther reviewed it for The New York Times, he wrote that its 97 minutes of back stabbing and double-dealing were such that they had to be ''reckoned by logarithmic tables.
''You would avoid her if possible and agree with her if you had to deal with her,'' Mr. Speakes wrote.
''The readiness to challenge and then contradict official wisdom was supposed to be an American tradition,'' she wrote, ''but that kind of autonomy was rare in the 1950's, and I was fortunate to come of age among people who took their independence for granted.
''
        Nora Clemens Sayre was born on Sept. 20, 1932, in Hamilton, Bermuda, the only child of Joel Sayre, a staff writer and war correspondent for The New Yorker and occasional Hollywood screenwriter -- he wrote ''Annie Oakley'' (1935) for Barbara Stanwyck and was a co-writer on ''Gunga Din'' (1939) -- and Gertrude (Lynahan) Sayre, a reporter for The New York World.
Living in a New York City apartment bought for her by friends, partly to help her out and partly as an investment, she wrote drafts on yellow legal pads -- ''like Richard Nixon,'' she told Mr. Close.
''She is mother, conscience, death, negation, tender care,'' he wrote, ''and she manages with great eloquence, to be both cruel and compassionate.
She also wrote ''Disease Mongers: How Doctors, Drug Companies, and Insurers are Making You Feel Sick'' (Reed, 1992).
      
''Germaine Brée's remarkable study is not likely to be surpassed for many years,'' Henri Peyre wrote in The New York Times Book Review at the time.
''Germaine Brée's remarkable study is not likely to be surpassed for many years,'' Henri Peyre wrote in The New York Times Book Review at the time.
The critic Louis Menand wrote in The New York Review of Books in March 1995: ''Kael was the most brilliantly ad hoc critic of her time, and she made it possible to care about movies without feeling pompous or giddy by showing that what comes first in everyone's experience of a movie isn't the form or the idea but the sensation, and that this is just as true for moviegoers who have been taught to intellectualize their responses to art as it is for everyone else.
''The manner of appreciation she invented has become the standard manner of popular culture criticism in America,'' he wrote.
''
        Ms. Adler, a former film critic for The Times, wrote that Ms. Kael's recent work ''falls somewhere between huckster copy and ideological pamphleteering,'' and that ''mistaking lack of civility for vitality, she substitutes for argument a protracted, obsessional invective.
In her essay ''Trash, Art and the Movies,'' reprinted in ''Going Steady,'' Ms. Kael wrote: ''Movies took their impetus not from the desiccated, imitation European high culture, but from the peep show, the Wild West show, the music hall, the comic strip -- from what was coarse and common.
Ms. Kael never wrote movie criticism until she was 35 and, she said, ''I never made a living at this until I was in my 40's.
''I made the displays, wrote the program and cleaned the chewing gum off the seats,'' she said.
The feisty, funny reviews that she wrote for the programs enhanced her reputation, and she began lecturing on film at universities in San Francisco and Los Angeles.
Back home at night, she wrote.
Afterward, she was a Fulbright fellow at Macquarie University in New South Wales, Australia, and a visiting professor at Mills College in Oakland, Calif.
        She wrote extensively in journals and books, some of which remain in print as classic textbooks.
She also became an activist who wrote authoritatively about the life of cancer patients.
Last January she wrote a much-discussed article for The New Yorker, ''Betting Your Life,'' dealing with the way patients make medical decisions.
Mrs. Olson wrote ''Hell to Pay'' (Regnery, 1999), a highly critical book about Mrs. Clinton, and recently finished a sequel, ''Final Days,'' about the Clintons' last weeks in the White House.
She opened a drill team summer camp, started an international competition for drill teams, founded and edited a magazine on the subject of drill teams, and wrote what some consider the definitive textbook on the subject.
He later wrote that she ''shook New York'' in that role.
''
        Standing 5 feet 11 inches in her heels, Dagmar combined ''the voluptuous curves of a Venus, the provocative grace of a young Mae West and the virtue of a Girl Scout,'' Murray Schumach wrote in The New York Times in 1950.
They also wrote the screenplay for the 1949 film version directed by William Wyler.
When ''The Heiress'' opened on Broadway, Brooks Atkinson wrote a harsh review in The New York Times, saying that the James ''story cannot be dramatized.
Together, the Goetzes wrote the screenplay for, among other movies, ''Carrie'' (1952, adapted from Theodore Dreiser's ''Sister Carrie'' and starring Laurence Olivier) and ''Stage Struck'' (1957).
On her own, Mrs. Goetz wrote ''Sweet Love Remember'd,'' a play about her husband.
They serve ''because they are personal friends of the queen, or for the honor and kudos the work undoubtedly brings,'' Alan Hamilton wrote in ''The Royal Handbook.
The Times wrote: ''She was unflappable, conscientious, but at the same time witty and charming, with a sense of fun to match that of her boss.
She wrote and taught about cooking as well as serving as chef at the restaurant for a decade.
Mr. Claiborne wrote that she ''speaks and writes fluent Mandarin, and this has given her a fine grasp of the meaning of Chinese cooking and menu terms.
One critic wrote of her performance in ''Sailor Beware'' that  ''with her hair scrapped up from her neck in a tight roll of curls, she is more intimidating than a fixed bayonet -- and with a voice to match.
She and her husband, Dr. Bernard Berkowitz, a psychologist and psychiatrist, wrote ''How to Be Your Best Friend'' (Random House, 1973).
''We feel that our books should be an emotional experience,'' Miss Newman wrote, when ''How to Take Charge of Your Life'' first appeared, ''that they can be picked up at different times in a reader's life, and that they will be both energizing and comforting in times of crisis.
''This is a fine time in America to be a drug addict,'' the New York Post columnist Andrea Peyser wrote about the program in 1999.
She began studying how the brain learns, and wrote her thesis on the effects of methamphetamine on rhesus monkeys.
She lacked a similar command of automobiles and typewriters, and as a reporter for The New York Times, then as an editor for Vogue, Harper's Bazaar and The New York Times Magazine, she wrote all her copy by hand.
She wrote about a young Mr. Schumacher when he and some friends opened a shop called Paraphernalia.
She wrote in its magazine about a little-known designer named Marjan Pejoski, whose feathered-swan dress for the singer Bjork had caused a stir at the Academy Awards.
''
        ''Identifying just what it is that sets them apart from other works of historical romance is difficult,'' Ms. Malcolm wrote, although she cited a ''painter's eye for gorgeous detail'' and a ''vocabulary that sometimes outstrips the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary.
They're popular at the moment,'' she wrote.
She wrote nine books and many articles on dyslexia and was an early and enduring force in the International Dyslexia Association, a 13,000-member professional group based in Maryland.
She wrote three books on her channeling, and made a number of recordings, some featuring her playing the easier pieces, the last in 1988.
She wrote books, some with her husband, about witchcraft and pagan rituals and tried to bring her appreciation of ancient, pre-Christian ways to her rustic life as well as to her art.
Dr. Schor, who once wrote that she hoped to become ''an intellectual bad girl,'' delighted in controversy.
She wrote in an essay for The Los Angeles Times in 1986 that this was not easy.
''For a girl it was an act of courage, not to say folly,'' she wrote.
''This is a singer with temperament, an abundance of animal spirits and brains to boot,'' Harold C. Schonberg wrote in The New York Times in February 1957, during her debut season with the Metropolitan Opera.
Based on her teaching experiences she wrote an article for Art News in 1963 titled ''What's Wrong with U.S. Art Schools?
In addition to her art and teaching, she wrote articles on artists, including Hofmann, Kline and Giacometti.
She wrote the text for a book of her husband's photographs of Giacometti, published in 1987, four years after his death.
In 1953 she wrote ''Elizabeth Enters: The Story of a Queen'' (Scribners), a biography for which Mr. Johnston served as the picture editor.
