For 25 years, she made diagnoses, conferred with parents and wrote referrals to physicians, schools and various agencies.
She chided society for its ''waste of highly talented, educated womenpower,'' as she put it in a 1961 article she wrote for The New York Times Magazine, calling it a ''prodigious national extravagance.
In May 1932, she married Mr. Paley in Kingman, Ariz.
        ''Although seven years his junior, Dorothy was more worldly than he,'' Sally Bedell Smith wrote in ''In All His Glory,'' her 1990 biography of Mr. Paley.
''
        Over the years, Mrs. Smith wrote, Mr. Paley's wife had an impact on him -- ''her political leanings, appetite for news, taste in art and sense of style.
''
        David Patrick Columbia wrote in Quest magazine in 1993: ''They were the golden couple on the town.
''
        ''To those with a sharp eye, other hairline cracks were showing in the marriage,'' Mrs. Smith wrote.
In a 1971 interview in The New York Times, Brian Glanville wrote, ''She has on her bookshelves the works of Sartre, Ibsen, Pirandello and Wilde.
She wrote the curriculum for the school and taught courses in arbitration, labor law and labor practices.
Ms. Van Horne, who later wrote a syndicated column for The New York Post, died of breast cancer, said a friend, Leslie Rubinstein.
In her long career, she also wrote for The World Journal Tribune, Newsday, The New York Times Syndicate and The Los Angeles Times Entertainment Syndicate and was a frequent guest on television programs.

        Margaret Baltzell Kreig, who wrote about health and medicine and raised early alarms over drug abuse by American young people, died on Jan. 12 at her home in Washington.
Besides her many magazine articles she wrote two books of nonfiction, ''Green Medicine: The Search for the Plants That Heal'' (Rand McNally, 1964), and ''Black Market Medicine'' (Prentice Hall, 1967).
For ''Black Market Medicine,'' she accompanied Federal undercover agents and wrote of organized crime groups that counterfeited prescription medicines and secretly took them to market.
Sometimes using the pen name Peggy Craig, she also wrote murder mysteries and television scripts about crime.
She wrote extensively on issues dealing with women, unions, labor relations, sex discrimination and equal employment opportunities in the United States and abroad.
She taught and wrote that a good teacher was a student with the world as the classroom.
''
        She had particular trouble with the way children were being reared in the white suburbs of the 1960's, which she wrote about in a four-year study published in 1967, ''The Shortchanged Children of Suburbia.
''In Barcelona, it was perfect bombing weather,'' she wrote in a typical dispatch in 1938.
''Behind the barbed wire and the electric fence,'' she wrote of her visit to Dachau, ''the skeletons sat in the sun and searched themselves for lice.
She also wrote a collection of novellas about it, ''The Trouble I've Seen'' (1936).
Bill Buford, the fiction editor at The New Yorker who was previously the editor of Granta, an English literary magazine, wrote about Ms. Gellhorn and her work: ''Reading Martha Gellhorn for the first time is a staggering experience.
''
        She also wrote a highly regarded travel book in 1979, ''Travels With Myself and Another,'' that was an often humorous recounting of some of her more uncomfortable jaunts to remote corners of the globe, some  with Hemingway, whom she referred to only as Unwilling Companion.
''Journalism is education for me,'' she wrote.
''
        She wrote on an old, battered typewriter and had to quit in 1992 when a cataract operation left her with diminished eyesight.
''
        From 1937 until 1941, she wrote the radio quiz show ''True or False?,'' and for a dozen years, beginning in 1940, she wrote and eventually also produced ''Take It or Leave It: The $64 Question.
''
        From 1937 until 1941, she wrote the radio quiz show ''True or False?,'' and for a dozen years, beginning in 1940, she wrote and eventually also produced ''Take It or Leave It: The $64 Question.

        Karen Avenoso, an education reporter for The Boston Globe who also wrote about her yearlong battle with Ewing's sarcoma, a rare form of cancer, died yesterday at her home in Westfield, N.J. She was 31.
She previously wrote freelance articles for several newspapers, including The New York Times, and for Glamour, Elle and New Woman magazines.
''It has been the hardest, and loneliest, experience I can imagine,'' she wrote.
Though accomplished cooks -- Mrs. Rayner wrote three cookbooks -- friends decided that their individual talents, Mrs. Rayner's sense of color and Mrs. Ertegun's architectural eye, would offer more long-term opportunities.
''
        While quotas were not acknowledged in the admissions offices of medical schools, she wrote, practice suggested otherwise.
Based on her experiences there, she wrote another book, ''Healing at Home: A Guide to Health Care for Children'' (Beacon Press, 1978) She returned to the Boston area to practice pediatrics and psychotherapy.
In 1939, she married Andy Razaf, a lyricist who wrote songs for Fats Waller.
Mrs. Kampen, whose other books include ''Are You Carrying Any Gold or Living Relatives?,'' a 1970 account of a trip to the Soviet Union, also wrote widely for magazines, turned out self-deprecating columns about her life for local newspapers and talked her way repeatedly around the world as a cruise-ship lecturer.
Editor's Note:  July 8, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary on March 18 about Anne Sayre, an author, described a book she wrote in 1975 about the role of Rosalind Franklin, a British biologist, in the discovery of the structure of DNA 45 years ago.
Lady Enniskillen wrote several books, including ''Florence Court My Irish Home'' about Enniskillen.
With Ellin Greene, she wrote ''Storytelling: Art and Technique.
She was a major contributor to the volumes on painting in the complete catalogue of the collection, published in 1965, and wrote the section on sculpture in ''Art in The Frick Collection,'' published by Abrams in 1996.
Inspired by Prokofiev's score to ''Romeo and Juliet'' (one of three he wrote for the ballerina) and by the bold choreography of Leonid Lavrovsky, Miss Ulanova's dancing, and that of the Bolshoi, helped make the case after Stalin's death that Russian classical ballet remained the finest in the world.
''The impact of the Bolshoi has been overwhelming,'' wrote John Martin, The New York Times's dance critic, when the company traveled for the first time to New York in 1959.
''To see a legend assume the dimensions of reality before us,'' Mr. Martin wrote about her dancing in ''Romeo and Juliet,'' ''and in the process lose nothing of the quality of legend, is a rare and wonderful experience.
''On many occasions people tried to push us into conflict,'' Maya Plesetskaya, who replaced her in 1960 as the Bolshoi's leading female dancer, wrote two years ago in her memoirs.
''She was an angel and she danced like one,'' she wrote.
David Grafton, the author of the 1992 book ''The Sisters: The Lives and Times of the Fabulous Cushing Sisters'' (Villard Books), wrote that Katherine Cushing once told a gossip columnist that she expected her girls ''to marry into the highest level of European nobility or into America's moneyed aristocracy.
But,  Ms. Smith wrote, ''Fortunately, Betsey redeemed herself with a rollicking sense of humor and an ability to kick up her heels.
''The two women were simply too strong and too different in personal style and social preferences,'' Mr. Grafton wrote.
Mr. Kahn wrote, ''After inspecting it, they pronounced it nice enough but hardly on a par with Greentree.
She wrote that her poetry was shaped by the visions of Abstract Expressionism, which can create metamorphoses.
Reporting on her 25th-anniversary Met gala in 1984, when she sang Kundry in Act II of ''Parsifal'' and Sieglinde in Act I of ''Walkure'' in a concert with Mr. Levine conducting, The New York Times critic John Rockwell wrote that Ms. Rysanek ''has never been a singer who stresses an even vocal line and abstract bel-canto virtues.
Of her time in the House, Ms. Abzug wrote in a journal that was published in 1972 as ''Bella,'' ''I spend all day figuring out how to beat the machine and knock the crap out of the political power structure.
Later, exasperated with her Congressional aides, she wrote: ''I just don't understand young people today, quite frankly.
Jimmy Breslin wrote of a campaign worker who repaired to the Lion's Head one night, holding his side and swearing never to work for Ms. Abzug again.
''Outside of Martin and the kids, I don't feel very related to most people at this point,'' she wrote in 1971.
She wrote a book, ''Gender Gap,'' with her old friend Mim Kelber.
Her father, Lee Eastman, was a prominent show business lawyer in New York and one of his clients, Jack Lawrence, wrote ''Linda'' for her in 1947 when she was 6.
Ms. McCartney also wrote a few songs, including the reggae-style ''Seaside Woman,'' which she and Mr. McCartney released as a single in 1977 under the name Suzy and the Red Stripes, and ''The White-Coated Man,'' which she wrote with Carla Lane and released (also as Suzy and the Red Stripes) on an animal-rights charity disk, ''Animal Magnetism,'' in 1994.
Ms. McCartney also wrote a few songs, including the reggae-style ''Seaside Woman,'' which she and Mr. McCartney released as a single in 1977 under the name Suzy and the Red Stripes, and ''The White-Coated Man,'' which she wrote with Carla Lane and released (also as Suzy and the Red Stripes) on an animal-rights charity disk, ''Animal Magnetism,'' in 1994.
Dr. Taub wrote and lectured widely about Adlerian psychology and in particular about her own art therapy practice, conducted in her home.
In the 1970's she wrote art reviews for The Honolulu Star-Bulletin.
Two years later, she married George Richey, with whom she wrote the song '' 'Til I Can Make It on My Own.
Working with the producer Billy Sherrill, with whom she wrote her biggest hit, she also became the standard-bearer of an elaborately orchestrated Nashville sound, with pedal steel guitars underlined by strings and backup choruses.
In her 1979 autobiography, ''Stand By Your Man,'' Ms. Wynette wrote that one night he menaced her with a rifle while in a drunken rage, firing in her direction as she ran from him and then shooting up their Lakeland mansion; his autobiography denies the account.
Two years later, she married George Richey, with whom she wrote the song '' 'Til I Can Make It on My Own.
''The purpose of team nursing,'' Dr. Lambertsen wrote in her dissertation, ''is to blend different kinds of nurses into the working unit whose core is the patient and his individual nursing needs.
Collaborating with Mr. Abraham, she wrote ''The Shell and the Kernel: Renewals of Psychoanalysis'' (University of Chicago Press, 1994) and ''The Wolf Man's Magic Word'' (University of Minnesota Press, 1976), which explores a classic case in Freud's writings, a study of the delusions of a patient of Freud's known as the Wolf Man.
With Dr. Rand, Ms. Torok wrote and edited ''Questions for Freud: The Secret History of Psychoanalysis'' (Harvard University Press, 1998), and edited ''Rhythms: On the Work, Translation and Psychoanalysis'' (Stanford University Press, 1995).
It is a river of grass,'' she wrote.
With John Rothchild she wrote ''Voice of the River,'' in 1987, an autobiography that told of her fierce advocacy of conservation measures to save the natural environment of South Florida.
She served on the editorial board of the University of Miami Press and for a time wrote book reviews.
After a Town Hall performance in 1971, John S. Wilson wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Donegan ''showed a technical virtuosity that could be compared only to that of Art Tatum and a swinging drive that might be equaled by Mary Lou Williams.
''My wish is to make something permanent out of the transitory,'' Ms. MacIver wrote in 1946, in a three-paragraph artist's statement, the only one she ever composed.
(Mr. Frankenberg, who died in 1975, wrote a series of poems inspired by Ms. MacIver's paintings.
(Alfred Stieglitz wrote a short catalogue introduction for the show, declaring, ''This girl should be given a chance to paint, if anybody should be given a chance to paint.
Hoping to salvage something from her work, she wrote ''Witch Doctor's Apprentice.
She also wrote dance criticism for The Christian Science Monitor during the 1960's.
She formed one of the first counselor training programs, developed the first program to measure counselor effectiveness, wrote several textbooks and lectured widely here and abroad.
She wrote several books on Irish houses, gardens and crafts, and houses she decorated were featured in a number of magazines.
The composer Anis Fuleihan wrote a concerto for her, and she performed as a soloist with several orchestras, including the New York Philharmonic, the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Toronto Symphony.
Mrs. Kormendi wrote, directed and produced plays for the theater troupe, which she founded with her husband, Laszlo Kormendi, in 1954.
One critic, Meyer Levin, wrote in the 1960's that Mrs. Kormendi ''lets her children act like children do when they make up their own plays -- only she brings this to the point of art.
Analyzing horror stories he wrote, she once said: ''The actual situation is harmful, with the protagonist conceiving it to be harmless and reacting accordingly.
''
        She edited and wrote the introduction for the book ''Poems of Ambrose Bierce'' (1995, Nebraska), which the literary journal American Notes and Queries, or ANQ, called ''a provocative volume'' that ''should spark further interest in Bierce.
She was ''Ma Rainey incarnate,'' wrote Frank Rich in his review in The New York Times.
When she came to New York in the 1920's, she was turned down for so many roles that she wrote a poem about the experience.
''
        As an admirer of Edna St. Vincent Millay, she wrote ''A Lovely Light,'' a one-woman play based on Millay's poetry and letters.
''
        In her 1979 memoir, ''Openings and Closings,'' Miss Stickney, who seemed to be the most quietly confident actress onstage, wrote about her lifelong battle with stage fright.
Hailing her performance, Vincent Canby of The New York Times wrote that Ms. O'Sullivan ''never had five minutes on the screen to equal her work here.
''
        Ms. O'Sullivan also wrote ''The Umbrella'' and other short stories.
She wrote an article on Nostradamus in 1961 and two years later began translating his work in earnest.
''In a respectable London bookshop last week,'' wrote Francis Wheen in The Guardian in 1996, ''I was astonished to find an entire section given over to works by or about Nostradamus, the mumbo-jumbo merchant.
Ms. Cheetham also wrote the screenplay of the 1982 film ''The Man Who Saw Tomorrow,'' in which Orson Welles played Nostradamus, and she was a contributor to periodicals and encyclopedias.
'' Ms. Thompson wrote the book during a three-month break from performing.
Later she wrote three other books about Eloise, which were also illustrated by Mr. Knight.
Ms. Thompson also wrote ''Kay Thompson's Miss Pooky Peckinpaugh and Her Secret Private Boyfriends Complete with Telephone Numbers'' (1970).
Ms. Harragan also wrote articles and columns about careers for such magazines as Working Woman, Woman's Day, Mademoiselle and Savvy.

        Lillian Hoban, who illustrated or wrote more than 100 children's books, including those featuring a badger named Frances and a chimpanzee named Arthur, died on July 17 at New York and Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan.
''There is an abundance of  psychological and historic richness to her characters,'' Elizabeth Benedict wrote in The Washington Post in 1995, ''and she can be wickedly eloquent about the costs of living in a world where the shadings in the color of one's skin are more important than the bonds between blood relatives.
Family members ''ranged in color from the blond child to me,'' Miss  West wrote in ''The Richer, the Poorer,'' a collection of short stories and essays published in 1995.
(''The Richer, The Poorer,''  gathering 13 essays and 17 stories Miss West wrote between 1926 and 1987, came out later the same year.
She went to Communist Russia with Hughes and the others, she wrote in ''The Richer, the Poorer,'' because ''I liked them.
In retirement Miss Smith wrote historical pamphlets on New England agriculture and taught herself bookbinding, selling leather-bound notebooks and other items at craft fairs to finance her yen for travel, which included 18 trips to England and the Continent, where as a young woman, it should come as no surprise, she had climbed the Matterhorn.
      
''
        Besides her novels and stories, she  wrote eight works for the theater, including ''A Solid Home'' (1957), ''The Tree'' (1963) and ''Felipe Angeles'' (1979).
Writing under the name Dorothy Manners, she took over when Parsons retired in 1965 and wrote a syndicated column for King Features, the Hearst subsidiary, until her own retirement in 1977.
She wrote 60 books for children, including ''Magic For Nonmagicians,'' ''Things That Kids Collect,'' ''One-Minute Bedtime Stories,'' ''One-Minute Favorite Fairy Tales'' and ''One-Minute Greek Myths.
In the 1940's and 50's she was married to the founder of the company, Dale Carnegie, who wrote the classic American self-help book ''How to Win Friends and Influence People.
Even the most retiring people can learn to wow a crowd, he wrote.
Following his style, she collected anecdotes and how-to case histories for a book she wrote, ''How to Help Your Husband Get Ahead in his Social and Business Life,'' published in 1953.
''For the first few years of my life I was an introvert, a shrinking violet,'' the sometimes brash auto executive wrote in his autobiography, ''Iacocca.
''I provide a full range of women's medical care and counseling to women who largely have no other access to health care,'' she wrote in a letter to the editor of The New York Times in 1995, ''yet I am forced to wear a bulletproof vest, to outwit my harassers and to hire security to protect my clinic and staff.
Mrs. Rosenberg said that she originally wrote her book in 1948 as a way to deal with the paralyzing guilt she felt as a Holocaust survivor, and that she published it to satisfy her brother Romek's last request that she stay alive to tell the story of the Kolomyja ghetto to the world.
Ms. Kay wrote ''Political Constructions'' (Cornell University Press, 1988), which examined the political history, moral philosophy and fiction between the English civil war and the French Revolution.
With a co-author, Chuck Conconi, she wrote ''The Washington Sting,'' a book about an undercover police fencing operation she had covered in the early 1970's.
Hans and Sophie Scholl ''came to represent not just the small band of youthful dissenters but all the pacifist sympathizers who were tracked by the Gestapo and the innumerable anonymous victims who were forced to pay the price for believing that human rights were more important than obedience to arbitrary laws,'' wrote Albert von Schirndung, a cultural critic for the Munich daily Suddeutsche Zeitung.
''It would have been wrong to create new heroes,'' Mr. Schirndung wrote.
In London, she wrote of the city's poor during the blitz and of the bombing of the Hotel Savoy.
''I was sitting in my third-floor room ready to get into bed when I heard the bombs coming,'' she wrote.
She also became a crack wing-shot with a Parker 20-gauge shotgun and wrote a book called ''Is She Coming, Too?
Reviewing Ms. Topf's ''Garden Gate'' in 1991 in The New York Times, Jack Anderson wrote of unhurried, rooted movement that embodied architectural characteristics of the performance space.
''Reaching and swinging motions'' of the arms, Mr. Anderson wrote, suggested the dancers had ''grown wings, an illusion that invested 'The Garden Gate' with the strange exhilaration of a dream of flying.
She also wrote about contact improvisation and reviewed dance for publications including Dance Magazine, The New York Times and The Village Voice.
In 1981 she and Eric Johnson wrote a widely praised book, ''The Family Book About Sexuality,'' which was published in five languages.
In a letter she wrote in 1952, Mrs. Judd, an Indiana native and the daughter of a minister, called the dismemberment ''a ghastly deed'' but again maintained that she shot the two women in self-defense.
She said that she transported the bodies because she was suffering from shock, but wrote, 'I've asked God many times to forgive me.
She contributed articles to Craft Horizon and other publications, and beginning in 1966 wrote a weekly column for Dan's Papers, never missing a week, even when she was out of town.
During the 1950's, she wrote regularly about Japan for The Saturday Evening Post and The Christian Science Monitor.

        Mary Main, a novelist who also wrote a highly regarded biography of Eva Peron, died on Nov. 8 at her home in Ridgefield, Conn. She was 95.
''
        As Maria Flores, Ms. Main wrote two other books based on events in Latin American dictatorships: the novel ''The Call From Calle Moreno,'' about a doctor called in to treat a victim of Juan Peron's police, and ''The Benefactor,'' a story inspired by the disappearance of the Columbia University professor Jesus de Galindez, who was widely assumed to have been kidnapped by agents of Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator.
''
        The British critic W. A. Darlington wrote in The New York Times that in the musical her singing voice ''was true and clear'' and ''besides the great good looks which had taken her on to movies, she proved to have a warm and charming personality.
The 1963 scandal became the basis for the 1989 film ''Scandal'' -- which,  the critic Vincent Canby of The New York Times wrote, ''so abridges and elides the real-life case that it isn't easy for a nonstudent to follow the chronology of events.
Encouraged by this success, she wrote more stories for a Philadelphia paper, receiving $5 for each one.
''I wrote her,'' Miss Dalrymple said, ''and told her she had a tin ear.
'' When the play opened, Brooks Atkinson echoed Sartre's denunciation and wrote in The New York Times that it was a production that ''looked and sounded bogus.
''They have made the theater seem like a fresh, exciting, varied form of public art,'' Atkinson wrote in The Times.
She knew only that some of her cousins had left Germany for York, Pa., and so she wrote to the Mayor of that town, who somehow found Lenore.
''Edwige Feuillere was our Marlene Dietrich, our Irene Dunne and our Greta Garbo, all in one,'' Le Monde wrote after her death.
When ''Chopin Concerto'' was performed by the Polish Ballet at the 1939 World's Fair New York, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, wrote that Ms. Youshkevitch, her partner Zbigniew Kilinski and the other soloist, Olga Slawska, ''filled the principal roles with authority.

        Vassar Miller, whose lifelong struggle with cerebral palsy made the simplest tasks arduous yet who wrote 10 volumes of searing and highly regarded poetry, died on Oct. 31 at Houston Methodist Hospital.
Ms. Miller's work often explored religious themes, although she also wrote about her own pain and sense of isolation, and there were occasional flashes of acid humor.
''That she is to this day little known, read or praised in Texas is the most damning comment possible on our literary culture,'' he wrote in a 1981 essay in The Texas Observer.
''Vassar Miller's poetry is direct, clear and tautly composed, with depths that are immediately accessible,'' a Houston Chronicle reviewer wrote in 1991.
''
        In writing about Ms. Godden's  book ''Cromartie v. the God Shiva: Acting Through the Government of India,'' published last year, Bill Vourvoulias wrote in Newsday, ''One of the delights of reading a Rumer Godden novel is the magnetic pull of the exotic settings, affecting readers and characters alike.
''
        Ms. Godden's precocity was evident during her early days in Bengal, where she wrote a fictional autobiography at age 7, vying with her sister Jon -- who also became a writer -- for the family literary laurels.
She evoked this in 1966 in the memoir ''Two Under the Indian Sun,'' which she wrote with Jon: ''The feel of the sunbaked Indian dust between sandals and bare toes; that and the smell.
The change was shocking and Ms. Godden's time in Britain unhappy and rebellious, she wrote in her memoir ''A Time to Dance, No Time to Weep'' (1988).
She wrote into her final years and  never forgot India, returning to it in novels like ''Coromandel Sea Change'' (1991).
''To me and my kind,'' she once wrote, ''life itself is a story and we have to tell it in stories -- that's the way it falls.
'' A. H. Franks wrote of Ms. Beriosova's fluency, of arabesques and attitudes that ''became movement in suspension rather than a cessation of movement.
''She seemed to lack the toughness that can allow an artist to express herself to the full in spite of unhelpful circumstances and depressing setbacks,'' Ms. Walker wrote in Dance Now.
In it, she wrote: ''Let a new earth rise.
The best-selling novel, The New York Times Book Review wrote, ''chronicled the triumph of a free spirit over many kinds of bondage.
She wrote about her experience in ''Life After Harry: My Adventures in Widowhood,'' which became a best seller.
In the 1930's she wrote scripts for commercials used on WMCA, a New York radio station.
''
        She wrote several books, the last of which, ''I Love Antiques but I Don't Want to Be One,'' is scheduled to be published next fall by Crown.
''Only the invented part of our life -- the unreal part -- has had any scheme, any beauty,'' Gerald Murphy wrote to Fitzgerald.
Fitzgerald wrote to the Murphys: ''For a long, long time you will be inconsolable.
''How different a dawn than the one we saw in a hospital 18 years ago,'' Gerald Murphy wrote to Sara after the Donnellys' second son was born.
''Her body often had the look of one part being in balance, and the rest extremely off,'' Mr. Cunningham wrote of her in David Vaughan's book ''Merce Cunningham: Fifty Years,'' in a description of Ms. Farber in his 1960 ''Crises,'' created in part for her odd talents.
)
        What makes her accomplishments even more impressive is that over the course of a a career in which she wrote hundreds of poems, a single collection of short stories, a couple of children's books, a handful of novels, the words to five operas and one acclaimed masterpiece, Miss Lewis pursued a literary life in which the focus was on the life and the life was one of such placid equilibrium and domestic bliss that she had to reach deep down in her psyche -- and far back in the annals of criminal law -- to find the wellspring of tension that produced some of the 20th century's most vividly imagined and finely wrought literature.
She illustrated five books, including ''Mother Goose'' and ''The Night Before Christmas,'' and wrote and illustrated 45 others.
The first two books she both wrote and illustrated, ''Babies'' and ''Baby Animals,'' have sold a combined 1.3 million copies and are still in print.
''If you notice,'' Miss Fujikawa wrote a few years ago, ''in all my books (except for the fairy-tale books) there are very few grown-ups.
Decades later, Dr. Mead, by then known worldwide for her work in anthropology, wrote the introduction for Dr. Abel's book ''Culture and Psychotherapy'' (College and University Press, 1975), written with Rhoda Metraux.
