Ms. Kushner gained national recognition in 1975, when she wrote about her battle with breast cancer in a book, ''Why Me?
''There are no great problems solved here, nor great adventures,'' a New York Times reviewer, Phyllis Fenner, wrote about ''Snowbound With Betsy'' (1962).

       Virginia Thompson Adloff, an author and teacher who wrote extensively on the countries of Southeast Asia and French-speaking Africa, died on Tuesday at the home of her sister in La Jolla, Calif. She was 86 years old and a longtime resident of Manhattan.
Virginia Thompson Adloff, an author and teacher who wrote extensively on the countries of Southeast Asia and French-speaking Africa, died on Tuesday at the home of her sister in La Jolla, Calif. She was 86 years old and a longtime resident of Manhattan.
Mrs. Adloff, who wrote under her maiden name, was married to Richard Adloff in 1943.
Together they traveled for four decades and wrote several books on political, economic, social and cultural developments in Asia and Africa and on the islands of the Pacific and the Indian Ocean.
After the war, she and Mr. Adloff contributed to scholarly journals, translated works from the French and wrote 11 books, including ''The Left Wing in Southeast Asia,'' published in 1950; ''The Emerging States of French Equatorial Africa,'' (1960), and ''The French Pacific Islands: French Polynesia and New Caledonia'' (1971).
After the gallery closed in 1973, Ms. Webster wrote a cookbook, ''Eating and Living the Transcendental Meditation Way,'' which was published by Simon & Schuster.
She took the photographs for ''The Little Animals,'' a series of best-selling children's books in the 1960's for which another daughter, Judith Spangenberg, wrote the texts.
'Beloved by All' Involved
        Mr. Capra, who also directed her in four later movies, wrote in his 1971 autobography, ''The Name Above the Title,'' that she was unique in not requiring rehearsals because she ''gave her all the first time she tried a scene.
'' Her dedication, he wrote, made her ''beloved by all directors, actors, crews and extras.
De Mille, who wrote, ''I have never worked with an actress who was more cooperative, less temperamental and a better workman, to use my term of highest compliment.
'Beloved by All' Involved
        Mr. Capra, who also directed her in four later movies, wrote in his 1971 autobiography, ''The Name Above the Title,'' that she was unique in not requiring rehearsals because she ''gave her all the first time she tried a scene.
'' Her dedication, he wrote, made her ''beloved by all directors, actors, crews and extras.
''
        Miss Stanwyck was also the favorite of Cecil B. DeMille, who wrote, ''I have never worked with an actress who was more cooperative, less temperamental and a better workman, to use my term of highest compliment.
Dr. Bernstein wrote on the psychology of women's anxieties and was working on a collection of her articles.
''A Glimpse of Eden,'' recounting a safari in East Africa, joined ''a poet's urge to describe her experience in beautiful and even fanciful terms, and a thinker's urge to generalize about it,'' wrote Orville Prescott in a 1967 review in The New York Times.
''She strikes just the right note when she remarks on the bond of sympathy she felt for lions,'' the critic wrote, concluding, ''It takes a poet like Evelyn Ames to see the 'tender affection' of lions.
She wrote ''The Ladder of Vision: A Study of Dante's Comedy,'' published by Doubleday Books in 1961.
She also wrote many articles on Dante and translated other Italian and French writers.
      
After her family moved to her father's native town of Van Hornesville, she wrote and published her first book, ''At Midnight on the 31st of March'' (1938), in blank verse.
Other books for which she wrote the text include ''The White Palace,'' about a Columbia River salmon; ''People I'd Like to Keep,'' a collection of brief sketches of saints, scholars, soldiers and kings; ''Words Words Words,'' and ''Take a Number.

       Bernice Carey Martin, who wrote mystery novels in the 1950's under the name Bernice Carey, died of heart failure on Feb. 8 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 79 years old and lived in Los Gatos, Calif.
        Bernice Carey Martin, who wrote mystery novels in the 1950's under the name Bernice Carey, died of heart failure on Feb. 8 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 79 years old and lived in Los Gatos, Calif.
        Mrs. Martin wrote more than a dozen mystery books published by Doubleday, including ''The Reluctant Murderer'' (1949), ''The Body on the Sidewalk'' (1950), ''The Man Who Got Away With It'' (1950), ''The Beautiful Stranger (1951), ''The Three Widows'' (1952) and ''The Fatal Picnic'' (1955).

       Bernice Carey Martin, who wrote mystery novels in the 1950's under the name Bernice Carey, died of heart failure on Feb. 8 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 79 years old and lived in Los Gatos, Calif.
        Bernice Carey Martin, who wrote mystery novels in the 1950's under the name Bernice Carey, died of heart failure on Feb. 8 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 79 years old and lived in Los Gatos, Calif.
        Mrs. Martin wrote more than a dozen mystery books published by Doubleday, including ''The Reluctant Murderer'' (1949), ''The Body on the Sidewalk'' (1950), ''The Man Who Got Away With It'' (1950), ''The Beautiful Stranger (1951), ''The Three Widows'' (1952) and ''The Fatal Picnic'' (1955).

       Bernice Carey Martin, who wrote mystery novels in the 1950's under the name Bernice Carey, died of heart failure on Feb. 8 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 79 years old and lived in Los Gatos, Calif.
        Bernice Carey Martin, who wrote mystery novels in the 1950's under the name Bernice Carey, died of heart failure on Feb. 8 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 79 years old and lived in Los Gatos, Calif.
        Mrs. Martin wrote more than a dozen mystery books published by Doubleday, including ''The Reluctant Murderer'' (1949), ''The Body on the Sidewalk'' (1950), ''The Man Who Got Away With It'' (1950), ''The Beautiful Stranger (1951), ''The Three Widows'' (1952) and ''The Fatal Picnic'' (1955).
She also wrote short plays, poems and articles.
She also wrote ''The Dance of Love,'' published in 1980, and the recent ''Still Dancing with Love,'' a journal of her work with Meher Baba.
      
She also wrote children's books, including ''Rosie the Rhino,'' published in 1948, and ''Georgie's Pets'' (1950).
She also wrote droll letters to the editor on issues great and small, asking that they be thrown out if judged foolish, or published with only a pseudonym, usually the name of a dead relative or friend.
''Through her, the continuity of family control from father to husband to son-in-law to son has been maintained for over 60 years and, through her, it will be passed on to the next generation - her grandchildren,'' Mrs. Tuchman wrote.
She wrote, among other books, ''Conflict and Mood'' (The Free Press, 1954) and many articles for professional journals on faculty influence on medical trainees, patient needs and the hospital.
Joan Washburn, a gallery owner, read excerpts from several of the many reviews and monographs Mrs. de Kooning wrote about contemporary art, citing her ''ability to move with complete abandon from the sublime to the ridiculous.
Dr. Avers was prominent in the field of molecular cell biology and wrote dozens of articles and 10 textbooks on evolution, genetics and cell biology, including ''Process and Pattern in Evolution'' (Oxford University Press, 1989).
Ms. Grigson wrote a food column for The Observer, a British Sunday newspaper.
She also wrote a number of books, the most recent of which was ''Jane Grigson's Book of British Cookery'' (Atheneum, 1985).
Miss Johnson wrote 10 books of fiction, poetry and essays.
In an essay in The New York Times in 1969, Miss Johnson wrote angrily of those she saw as despoilers of the environment: ''A vast throng of people are working night and day, destroying all they still call their native land.
''
        In recent years Miss Johnson wrote for Country Journal, McCall's and Ohio Magazine.
She later wrote advertising copy and was a reporter for The Atlantic City Daily World, which has ceased publication.

       Helen Hoke, who wrote nearly 100 children's books and set up and ran children's book divisions in five publishing companies, died of bronchial pneumonia on Monday in a nursing home in Bethesda, Md.
Helen Hoke, who wrote nearly 100 children's books and set up and ran children's book divisions in five publishing companies, died of bronchial pneumonia on Monday in a nursing home in Bethesda, Md.
She also specialized in anthologies of ghost stories, one of which she wrote with her grandson, Franklin Hoke.
Ms. Hoke and her son, a photographer and writer, wrote ''Music Boxes: Their Lore and Lure'' in 1957.
'' The reviewer wrote that Miss Roberts ''imposed order on the disorderly mass of saga material'' by telling the legend from the point of view of one key character, Hallgerda Hoskuldsdottir, and eliminating ''many irrelevant scenes, superflouous characters and tiresome genealogical pedigrees.

       Elisa Bialk Krautter, who wrote under the the name Elisa Bialk, died of cancer last Wednesday at Hilton Head Hospital on Hilton Head Island, S.C. She was 81 years old and lived on the island.
Elisa Bialk Krautter, who wrote under the the name Elisa Bialk, died of cancer last Wednesday at Hilton Head Hospital on Hilton Head Island, S.C. She was 81 years old and lived on the island.
She wrote poetry, then turned to short stories, which appeared in magazines like Story, McCall's, The Saturday Evening Post and Good Housekeeping.
She also wrote nonfiction articles and newspaper and magazine columns, and she taught writers' workshops.
''We protect the written word at the Berg,'' she told Whitney Balliett, who wrote a profile about her in The New Yorker on Dec. 31, 1984 - the first such article about a librarian in the magazine's history.
She wrote 21 novels, including ''Thou Shalt Not Love,'' ''The Flat Tire'' and ''Dimpled Racketeer.
'' She also wrote songs for the country singer Tex Ritter and performed on Broadway in Irving Berlin's ''Music Box Revue'' in 1922 and 1923.
Andre Sennwald wrote in The New York Times that she was ''the most miraculous blend of personality the screen has ever seen.
Except at the start of her career, he wrote in ''Garbo,'' she ''granted no interviews, signed no autographs, attended no premieres, answered no fan mail.
Mrs. Planer, a New York City native and graduate of Barnard College, wrote several popular weekly radio series in the mid-1940's, including ''Mayor of the Town,'' ''Mr.
'' She also wrote the script for a movie, ''A Wave, a Wac and a Marine.
''
        As a student at Barnard in 1924, Mrs. Planer wrote a play with with one of her professors, the Pulitzer-Prize winning playwright Hatcher Hughes.
In ''Boy Meets Girl,'' which opened in New York on Nov. 27, 1935, and ran for 669 performances, the Spewacks wrote about a fictional writing team, Benson and Law.
The critic, Brooks Atkinson, wrote that ''Kiss Me, Kate,'' had ''the best musical comedy book of the year.
Truman Capote, who called her ''Big Mama,'' was one of her closest friends until he wrote ''Answered Prayers,'' an article that caricatured New York society.
Mrs. Bernstein was a film and radio writer and also wrote newsletters for the children's group.
In 1961, after marrying Lloyd Hyde, a real estate developer, she moved to Washington where she wrote a column, ''Hyde & Chic,'' for The Washington Daily News.
''Few things have given me such satisfaction as your performance in this ballet,'' Ashton wrote her.
Writing and Radio Interviews
        Miss Frederick wrote for the United States Daily, a predecessor of U.S. News and World Report, covering the State, War and Navy Departments.
Then she wrote for the North American Newspaper Alliance, also doing occasional radio interviews for NBC before becoming a war correspondent for the newspaper alliance in 1945.
Her televison credits also included ''Star Trek,'' ''The Defenders,'' ''The Nurses,'' ''Murder, She Wrote'' and ''Magnum P.I.
She wrote many books and articles about Minnesota fur traders and explorers, including ''The Voyageur'' and ''Caesars of the Wilderness.
In that work, she wrote of her life with her husband, the Pulitzer Prize-winning poet George Oppen, who died in 1984.
''
        Coping With Adversity
        Ms. Ireland also wrote of coping with adversity in her 1989 book, ''Life Lines.
With Neil Sloane, she wrote a text, ''The Theory of Error-Correcting Codes.
''
        Mrs. Boston, an energetic woman who wrote during the cold months and gardened in the summers on her four-acre estate, suffered two strokes in March, according to her son, Peter, an architect in nearby Cambridge, who illustrated most of her books.
Miss Williams, whose sole acting training was in amateur plays, gained notice in a Philip Barry comedy in 1927, ''Paris Bound,'' and won Broadway over as a rebellious socialite in ''Holiday,'' the classic comedy of manners in 1928 that Barry wrote for her.
''
        Mr. Coward wrote in his 1940 autobiography, ''Future Indefinite,'' that Miss Williams ''had a charming speaking voice with a sort of beguiling tonelessness.
'' The collaboration became a friendship, and in 1973, she wrote ''Eleanor Roosevelt: Her Day.
''I always tried to bring out some part of their personality for the public to see,'' she wrote.
She was a 40-year contributor to the Reader's Digest and wrote hundreds of articles about human relations, social problems, religion and the church.
She also wrote and drew for Jack and Jill magazine, and she illustrated books for Platt & Murk publications.
As Television Guest
        Her many guest appearances on television included ''Murder, She Wrote,'' ''Hawaii Five-O,'' ''The Hitchcock Hour,'' ''Studio One'' and ''Playhouse 90.
She also wrote books on patient care and was internationally known as a lecturer and consultant.
F. Scott Fitzgerald was said to have based the character Rosemary on her when he wrote ''Tender Is the Night.
She wrote many magazine articles for sports publications, and was the author of three books: ''I Fly As I Please'' (Vanguard, 1953), a humorous account of her adventures in the air; ''How to Navigate Today'' (Cornell Maritime Press, 1940), a celestial guide to navigation now in its sixth edition, and ''Who Called That Lady a Skipper?
In the succeeding years, they wrote nine books and numerous articles and pamphlets on the sect.
At a Congressional reception in 1985, Mrs. Houlton, who wrote under her maiden name, Peggy Mann, was honored as one of the nation's foremost authors of books and articles about preventing drug abuse.
Her ''Marijuana Alert'' (1985), about drug-abuse prevention for adults, was based on an article she wrote for the Reader's Digest in 1979.
She and her husband, Alex Kramer, who had been her voice teacher, wrote such hit songs as ''High on a Windy Hill,'' ''Far Away Places'' and ''Candy.
Dr. Liberman wrote widely on dyslexia, and at her death she was a research associate at the Haskins Laboratories in New Haven, which is associated with Yale and the University of
        Dr. Isabelle Liberman, an authority on reading disabilities who taught for 21 years at the University of Connecticut, died on Thursday at her home in Mansfield Center, Conn. She was 71 years old.
Dr. Liberman wrote widely on dyslexia, and at her death she was a research associate at the Haskins Laboratories in New Haven, which is associated with Yale and the University of Connecticut.
Ms. Burns and her husband, Andrew Sparks, wrote for Atlanta Weekly, a Sunday magazine once operated by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
She was a freelance writer and also wrote an advice column for The Constitution under the pen name Amy Larkin.
Articles she wrote on the Guarneri Quartet, the conductor Andre Previn and a young pianist, Robin McCabe, were expanded into books.

       Martha Dodd Stern, an American author who in the 1930's and 1940's wrote popular books about Nazi Germany and later fled behind the Iron Curtain when she and her wealthy husband, Alfred K. Stern, were accused of being Soviet spies, died on Aug. 10 in Prague, friends reported.
She was 82 years old and had lived in the
        Martha Dodd Stern, an American author who in the 1930's and 1940's wrote popular books about Nazi Germany and later fled behind the Iron Curtain when she and her wealthy husband, Alfred K. Stern, were accused of being Soviet spies, died on Aug. 10 in Prague, friends reported.
Under her maiden name, she wrote a biography, ''The Reminiscences of a Spanish Diplomat'' (1933).
Mrs. Deutscher wrote a study of her own, ''The Other Lenin,'' published in 1973, and later assisted the historian E. H. Carr in preparing the last volumes of his history of the Soviet Union.
A graduate of Mount Holyoke College and Boston University, Mrs. Springer and her co-author, Beatrice Marden Glickman, wrote ''Who Cares for the Children?,'' published by Schocken Books.
Ms. Lester, a freelance writer, wrote extensively on the arts.
With Stephen Haggard, she wrote ''The Craft of Comedy,'' which was published in 1944, with new editions in 1958 and this year.
She even wrote satirical verse, under the pen name ''Sec.
The Times television critic Jack Gould wrote in 1961 that ''her sustained acerbity is one of the attractive adornments of contemporary criticism.
A leading proponent of good nutrition, Mrs. Roth wrote ''The Mood Control Diet,'' ''Reversing Health Risks,'' ''The Executive Success Diet'' and ''Aerobic Nutrition,'' among other books.
She also wrote a nationally syndicated newspaper column, ''Special Diets/Nutrition Hotline''; appeared on radio and television and contributed articles on food and health to national magazines.
Douglas Fairbanks Jr., once a co-star, wrote that she was ''one of the most professional women I've ever known.
Mrs. Mowrer, who was born in England and met her husband there in 1911, also wrote theater criticism and articles on politics for such publications as Vanity Fair and Town and Country and for British newspapers.
'I Do What I Can'
        Mrs. Hirsch also worked on behalf of many political candidates and frequently wrote to legislators on issues about which she or her organizations were concerned.
Crossing Words With Buckley
        A decade ago Mrs. Marsh told an interviewer that she wrote to editors because ''it's important to let people know what you're thinking.
After teaching for several years she wrote advertising copy and children's books and for many years contributed light verse to newspapers and magazines.
Eight years ago, when a 63-year-old man wrote The New York Times to urge his contemporaries to face the fact that ''old is old is old,'' Mrs. Marsh took pen to reply:
        ''Old at 63?
She collaborated with Sartre on the Revue des Temps Modernes, wrote several books and plays, and directed the Editions Denoel publishing house.
She wrote the screenplays for several films directed by her sister Jacqueline, including "Sophie's Unhappiness" in 1946 and "Bitter Fruit," which won the Grand Prix of French Cinema, in 1966.
"The New York Times drama critic Brooks Atkinson wrote: "Count on the credit side Eve Arden's lorgnette humor which turns a song entitled 'Send for the Militia' into highly amusing satire.
When she appeared in 1972 at the St. Regis Sheraton Hotel in New York City, John S. Wilson of The New York Times wrote that "she is dancing and singing as though nothing had ever happened.
" Inspired by Cole Porter
        Miss Kirk said at the time: "I kept thinking of Cole Porter, who had both legs crushed in a riding accident 10 years before he wrote 'Kiss Me, Kate.
Brooks Atkinson of The Times wrote, "Having startled the town last season by singing 'The Gentleman Is a Dope' as though she meant it, Miss Kirk is captivating it this year as a fully accredited hoyden with a sense of humor.
"
        "Given a sardonic song like 'Always True to You (In My Fashion),' " he wrote, "she can translate it into pert and gleaming buffoonery.
Echoes of Poetry
        In reviewing her performance in "South Pacific," Kenneth Tynan said that she reminded him of something Aldous Huxley wrote about the minor Caroline poets: "They spoke in their natural voices and it was poetry.
" As she wrote in her autobiography, "All my life I have felt guilty if I didn't use any talent I have as fully as I could.
" When she wrote about this moment in her autobiography, she commented, "That's what I would like to say, now and forever, to all audiences everywhere.
Dr. Joy, who had a Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley, wrote books about ways to attack world hunger and was a consultant to CARE and other humanitarian organizations.
She had been on the faculty of St. Mary's College in San Francisco and also wrote books on developmental education, including "Believing Is Seeing," published by the American Forum for Global Education.
" They wrote for "The Aldrich Family" and "Wagon Train" and wrote 34 scripts for the live television dramas performed on "Robert Montgomery Presents," "Somerset Maugham TV Theater" and the "Kraft Television Theater.
" They wrote for "The Aldrich Family" and "Wagon Train" and wrote 34 scripts for the live television dramas performed on "Robert Montgomery Presents," "Somerset Maugham TV Theater" and the "Kraft Television Theater.
She also wrote "The American Primer" (1941), a study of American democracy, and "Chicago, Crossroads of American Enterprise" (1944), a history.
Among the movies she wrote for television are "Amelia Earhart (1976)," "The Women's Room (1980)," "Where the Ladies Go (1980)" and "The Bourne Identity (1988).
She won critical praise for her attention to the language and life style of the periods she wrote about, but she was frequently faulted for reworking familiar ground.
Given the Jews' isolation, their lack of arms and the overwhelming material superiority of their enemies, there was virtually nothing they could have done to alter their fate, she wrote.
In articles in Commentary magazine and The New York Times, she wrote, first, that the Jews here did undertake wipespread efforts to awaken the government and world opinion to the fate of the European Jews.
" She said she wrote it "because of so many requests from friends and fans who asked me to tell them the secret of success.
In the 1950's, 60's and 70's, she illustrated more than 70 children's books, including three pop-up books that she wrote herself, and the "Andy Books," a series published by William Morrow & Company.
One woman wrote to say Mrs. Graham's face would "sour milk.
Her face would "sour milk," one woman wrote.
She wrote two novels about George Washington's portraitist, Gilbert Stuart: "Proud Heritage" (1949) and "Painter's Coach" (1943).
That same year, a children's book she wrote and illustrated, "The Wonderful Poodle," was published.
Under the name of Fay Stanley, she wrote several books, the first of which was a mystery, "Murder Leaves A Ring," published in 1950 by Holt Rinehart & Winston Inc.
She wrote several books, including "New York Portrait: A Literary Look at the Empire State" (Holt, 1964), which she wrote with Jack Ishmole.
She wrote several books, including "New York Portrait: A Literary Look at the Empire State" (Holt, 1964), which she wrote with Jack Ishmole.
She also wrote "Grammatical Terminology: A Combined Traditional and Modern Linguistic Glossary" (Long Island University, 1970).
Last year, in an occasional column she wrote, "View From the Newsroom," Ms. Chusmir offered readers a personal glance at herself.
