"
        That collection also contains the following lines, which Miss Howes wrote in  praise of the intellect, and which led Mr. Richman to write that "few celebrate mind better":
        Mind has mattered so much, and knowledge
        Is bottomless as the golden bowl
        In the myth, ceaseless as light, grave,
        Unemptiable as the sea.
"
        Miss Howes also wrote "The Road Commissioner and Other Stories" (1983).
"
        In addition to her private practice, Ms. de Hirsch carried out research and wrote extensively.
Stephen F. Cohen, a Princeton University historian who published a biography  of Bukharin in 1973, met clandestinely with the widow during the Brezhnev era and became a close friend, discovering in the archives and returning to her the  last love letter Bukharin wrote to her, on Jan. 15, 1938, from prison.
When Mrs. Manz wrote TOPS's articles of incorporation in 1952, she committed it to finding a cure for obesity, and TOPS says it has contributed more than $4.5 million to obesity research.
After several less-than-flattering biographies were published about "The Great One," Miss Meadows wrote, with Joe Daly, her own "Love, Alice: My Life as a Honeymooner.
Together they produced stencil kits designed for do-it-yourselfers and wrote "The Art of Decorative Stenciling" (Viking, 1976), a book that was a standard reference work for many years.
In the 1970's she wrote "The First Great Civilizations: Life in Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley and  Egypt," and atlases of ancient archeology and early human life.
The author of numerous articles, she wrote poems and translated French literature and plays.
" In an appreciation in The Irish Times, Maurice Harmon, professor emeritus of Anglo-Irish Literature at University College in Dublin, wrote: "She  drew upon her own experience.
"At the high point of her career," he continued, "she wrote about widows who  refuse to be passive in the face of death, who keep their memories of love and go forth to encounter experience with openness and with the wisdom of years.
She  wrote her first short story in 1938.
"Acting doesn't bring anything to a text," Miss Duras wrote of her work for cinema and theater.
However, despite the enormous success of her screenplay for Alain Resnais's 1960 classic, "Hiroshima, Mon Amour," few of the  19 movies she wrote and directed herself did well, not least because words often entirely replaced action.
In 1993, as a consultant to the Ford Foundation, she wrote a report on the status of university legal aid clinics in South Africa.
At various times, she wrote a monthly column for Good Housekeeping, contributed to magazines like Reader's Digest, Family Circle, Redbook and McCall's; lectured; created, wrote and produced the short-lived 1981 ABC television series "Maggie" and saw "The Grass Is Always Greener" turned into a 1978 prime-time CBS television movie starring Carol Burnett as a concerned mother who was Mrs. Bombeck's alter ego and Charles Grodin as her husband.
At various times, she wrote a monthly column for Good Housekeeping, contributed to magazines like Reader's Digest, Family Circle, Redbook and McCall's; lectured; created, wrote and produced the short-lived 1981 ABC television series "Maggie" and saw "The Grass Is Always Greener" turned into a 1978 prime-time CBS television movie starring Carol Burnett as a concerned mother who was Mrs. Bombeck's alter ego and Charles Grodin as her husband.
Growing up in a grand home in County Wexford, where her Protestant English father was a noted fox hunter and her Irish mother was a lapsed poet and Italian literary scholar who wrote occasional reviews, was not entirely pleasant for Mrs. Kean.
She did manage to turn out two more novels, but with the exception  of a play that was panned in 1961, she wrote nothing until "Good Behavior" marked her return to form in 1981.
The critic Richard Lingeman wrote that Miss Travers "has succeeded in creating a timeless world inhabited by real people and complete unto itself -- an immortal world that is summoned into being, unchanged whenever one opens a book.
"Nothing I had written before 'Mary Poppins' had anything to do with children, and I have always assumed, when I thought about it at all, that she had come out of the same wall of nothingness as the poetry, myth and legend that had absorbed me all my writing life," she wrote in 1978.
Fearing she would not be able to support herself as an actress indefinitely,  she had become a lawyer in 1981 and had begun a practice in immigration law that drew her increasingly into public affairs, partly because of a column on immigration matters she wrote for El Diario La Prensa.
Applauding a 1956 work, "Wingless Victory," about Gabriele d'Annunzio, the Italian poet, novelist and dramatist, and his mistress, the actress Eleonora Duse, Miss Frenaye wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book's author, Frances Winwar, "in her spirited and lush re-creation of the  posing poet, has done well to present him in his own terms.
In Manhattan, after the war, she wrote a column for an Italian newspaper, Il Mondo, for a time.
She studied the effects of psychoanalysis on the patient, a subject she repeatedly wrote about.
Mrs. Butler and her husband, Albert Butler, wrote "The Encyclopedia of Social Dance.
A competitive writer with a streak of indignation -- "Mary had the kind of anger that made abolitionists," said a former colleague, Jerry Tallmer, the writer -- she wrote extensively about organized crime and political corruption and was among the loudest critics of the Lower Manhattan Expressway and then Westway.
In the 1960's she reviewed theater for the Westport News in Westport, Conn., and wrote feature articles for the Fairpress in Fairfield, Conn.
        After writing the novels "Did You Love Daddy When I Was Born?
List wrote the script.
Beginning in the 1980's, she and her husband created, wrote and produced the  mini-series "Between Friends," which was based on Ms.
" They wrote the second  part of a two-episode drama in which Lacey recognizes and deals with her alcoholism.
"
        Those books were such a succcess that she wrote a Florida Trilogy and a Savannah Quartet before a turning out a final Georgia Trilogy, whose return to the familiar St. Simons settings helped propel the first book of the final series, "Bright Captivity" (1991), to The New York Times best-seller list.
Seeing her  at the Paris Opera in 1950, the American critic Edward Denby wrote in "Dancers,  Buildings and People in the Streets" (1965) that he was distressed by her "careless feet, limp and wormy arms, brutally deformed phrasings" but that his objections vanished when she offered "a few terrifying extensions, a few incisive strokes that counted phenomenally.
Along with "I Want to Be  a Cowboy's Sweetheart," which she wrote, her hits included "Shy Anne from Old Cheyenne," "The She Buckaroo," "Rodeo Sweetheart" and "I Wanna Be a Western Cowgirl.

        Marjorie Gross, a writer and producer of the television series "Seinfeld," who also wrote a humorous article about her ovarian cancer in The New Yorker in  April, died of the illness on June 7 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
Gross wrote, with Peter Mehlman, was the shower head episode, which was rebroadcast on Thursday.
"They found a tumor that they said was the size of an orange," she wrote.
In 1994, she sued relatives of Mr. Kerouac's last wife, Stella Sampas, who inherited the notebooks, teletype rolls and parchment scrolls on which he wrote  "On the Road" and laid down the first rumblings of postwar alienation that set the tone for the Beat Generation of the 1950's.
Ms. Delza also published a record album on teaching tai chi and wrote four books on tai chi and modern dance, including "The Tai Chi Chuan Experience," published this year by the State University of New York Press.
The State Supreme Court was more than 250 years old before a woman was elected to it, Judge Kaye wrote, and even today women do not enjoy the status of equals in the legal profession.
"Thoughts of Justice Amsterdam's arrival on the  New York State Supreme Court serve to remind of us both of how far we have advanced toward these objectives and how much they continue to elude us," she wrote.
She also wrote three books on the artist: "Kandinsky and Old Russia: The Artist as Ethnographer and Shaman," (Yale University Press, 1995); "Kandinsky in Munich, 1896-1914," the catalogue for the Guggenheim exhibition, and "Kandinsky in Munich: The Formative Jugendstil Years," (Princeton University Press, 1979).
Over the more than three decades that she wrote nonfiction, Miss Mitford railed against those who tried to suppress dissent over the Vietnam War, against a prison system she found to be corrupt and brutalizing, and against a medical profession she thought was greedy and given to unnecessary procedures.
She had largely failed at her other jobs, she wrote, and  "I figured that the only thing that requires no education and no skills is writing.
" She also wrote "The Trial of Dr. Spock, William Sloan Coffin Jr., Michael Ferber, Mitchell Goodman and Marcus Raskin" (1969), five who were accused of aiding and abetting those who sought to violate the Selective Service Act.
She also wrote articles for Life, Esquire, The Nation and The San Francisco Chronicle.
Ms. Cassidy wrote an energetic, often florid prose, and she took no prisoners.
The columns she wrote on her annual tour of European festivals were collected in "Europe on the Aisle" (1954).
She was a writer at radio station WNYC, became a television critic for The Nation and subsequently wrote for McCall's, Good Housekeeping and other periodicals.
The film historian David Thomson wrote six decades later that Miss Colbert had bathed not only in asses' milk but also in "the director's boyish lasciviousness.
In his 1971 book "The Name Above the Title," Mr. Capra wrote that Miss Colbert, "never easily pleased, said that  for her it was a disaster, and vowed that it would be her first and last film.
"
        "All this is a sad pity," he wrote, "because she is, within her limits, an excellent actress and those limits she imposes on herself.I have for years had a definite affection for her as a person, but these rehearsals are wilting it considerably.
She was an editor at Pictorial Review, for which she wrote short stories and a column called ''Baghdad on the Subway.
'' After the review folded, she wrote copy for the promotions department of Hearst magazines before serving as managing editor of Good Housekeeping and McCall's.
Miss Cousins wrote hundreds of short stories for popular magazines, one of which, ''The Life of Lucy Gallant,'' was made into the 1955 film ''Lucy Gallant,'' starring Jane Wyman.
She also wrote several novels and biographies for children, including ''Uncle Edgar and the Reluctant Saint'' (1948), ''Ben Franklin of Old Philadelphia'' (1952), ''We Were There at the Battle of the Alamo'' (1958) and ''Thomas Alva Edison'' (1965).
Under the pen name Avery Johns, she wrote the crime novel ''Traffic With Evil'' (1962).
Ms. Glaser was surprised to get a letter later in which Ms. East wrote, ''I gather from the tone of your question, you might be interested in a few statistics.

        Myra Cohn Livingston, a poet, anthologist and teacher who wrote  more than 80 books of poetry for children, died on Friday at her home in Los Angeles.
Mrs. Pearsall wrote several books, including an account of her trips through Spain, a collection of short stories, a company history and a volume describing her business philosophy, in which she advocated generosity (''bonuses to everyone''), courtesy (''no aggressive selling'') and frugality (''Micawber housekeeping'').
In a review of a concert by Ms. Gudde and her dancers in 1971, Anna Kisselgoff wrote in The New York Times that the choreographer had ''a strong theatrical sense'' and was an expressionist at heart.
A letter she wrote to The Daily Racing Form led to a wave of publicity about the 100-year-old horseplayer.
Mrs. Calder executed a series of hooked rugs, based on her husband's designs, and wrote a book on crochet.
A prolific composer who was especially adept at text setting, Ms. Talma wrote dozens of song cycles and choral works on both sacred and secular subjects.
She wrote ''Harmony for the College Student'' and was the co-author, with Robert Levin and James S. Harris, of ''Functional Harmony.
She wrote about that world for Town & Country magazine in the 1920's.
And, after she returned to the United States, she wrote in the 1960's for The New Yorker and Harper's Bazaar.
Quinn, Medicine Woman,'' ''Coach,'' ''It's Garry Shandling's Show'' and ''Murder, She Wrote.
' ''
        While ''Creepshow 2'' was her only film role in two decades, she was frequently seen on television, doing guest shots such shows as ''The Love Boat,'' ''Murder, She Wrote'' and, naturally, a few Bob Hope specials.
Its fourth edition (Harvard, 1988), which she wrote with Dr. Robert A. Novelline, is expected to be supplanted by a fifth in 1997.
' ''
        While ''Creepshow 2'' was her only film role in two decades, she was frequently seen on television, in guest shots on such shows as ''The Love Boat,'' ''Murder, She Wrote'' and, naturally, a few Bob Hope specials.
      
''Miss Welitsch is a musician and interpreter of flaming temperament, who has the part absolutely in her hand,'' Olin Downes wrote in his review in The New York Times the next day.
Among her writing projects on leaving the magazine was ''Careers at Home,'' a monthly column she wrote for Family Circle magazine from 1967 to 1974.
A woman in Hollywood is a nonperson, she wrote, ''unless she is under 21, powerful or a star.
She was given the name Evelyn, but she was renamed Frances when she was adopted after 14 months in an orphanage by Aline and Herbert Loeb of Larchmont, N.Y.
        ''Aline was outwardly affectionate with me for my father's sake, but she did not like me,'' Ms. Lear wrote in ''The Second Seduction,'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1992) an autobiography that pulled no punches.
Her stepfather, she wrote, ''met me at the door with a kitchen knife in his hand.
Her second marriage, to Morton Kaufman (''or Kauffman or Kaufmann -- I cannot remember how to spell my second husband's name,'' she wrote in the autobiography), was dissolved within a year.
Ms. Novack wrote for publications including The Drama Review, Ethnomusicology, and Women and Performance.
''
        Ms. Reid wrote an autobiography, ''So Much Love,'' and was the co-author of ''Cats' Whiskers'' and ''Beryl, Food and Friends.
While they were tailored for young readers from kindergarten through the early grades, she also wrote science books for teen-agers and a few for adults.

        Hannah Green, an acclaimed author who wrote one slender novel of such delicately distilled perfection that she could hardly bring herself to compose another, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan, six months after the reissue of her classic work, ''The Dead of the House,'' had been received with almost as much critical enthusiasm as its original publication a generation ago.
''I was, for as long as it took,'' he wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''able to surrender my own callowness and smugness to the ecstasy that is fiction, is art.
Sir Alec wrote that after a campaign she and her husband, Ernest F. Penrose, a British-born economist and writer, ''conducted in support of Owen Lattimore, a professor accused of un-American activities,'' the couple ''fell afoul of McCarthy and were more or less exiled, first to the Australian National University in Canberra and then to Baghdad University.
''The pictures are painful to look at,'' Sarah Boxer wrote in her review in The New York Times.
The cause was cancer, said Jan M. Johnson, executive editor of City News in Plainfield, N.J., for which Mrs. Woodruff wrote political commentary until her illness was diagnosed in the spring.
She also wrote ''The Beginning of the Journey'' (Harcourt Brace, 1993), sometimes a memoir, sometimes an apologia, often a long letter of rebuke to those who thought of her as little more than a sidekick to the scholar with whom she lived for 46 years.
''What I was trying to bring to his writing was a greater directness and greater fluidity,'' she wrote.
'' Her husband ''had more to say than I and a great deal more resonated from what he wrote.
''
        Her work appeared in some of the best magazines in the country, including The New Yorker, The Atlantic, Harper's and The Saturday Review, but mainly in two journals that were among those at the center of American intellectual life of the period, The Nation, where she wrote book reviews and literary criticism, and The Partisan Review, to which she contributed essays.
Trilling once wrote.
''Seventeen years have now passed since Lionel's death,'' she wrote at the conclusion of her memoir, ''and hour by hour, minute by minute I still listen for a clock which no longer ticks.
''She looked Caucasian and rented studio space that landlords would not rent to a person they thought was black,'' Ms. Jamison wrote.
Ms. Shostak wrote the book while she and her husband lived in Cambridge, Mass., where she was an associate of the Peabody Museum of Archeology and Ethnology at Harvard University.
Ms. Shostak lacked training in anthropology -- she earned a bachelor's degree in literature at Brooklyn College -- but her work was the subject of a number of doctoral studies in that field, and although she wrote few academic works, her field work was often analyzed at academic conferences, her husband said.
She wrote 59 books, including novels and several collections of stories.
Reviewing Mrs. Eberhart's ''Next of Kin'' in 1982, Newgate Callendar wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book ''contains all of the formulas she has so successfully conjured up through the years -- rich families, nice people, romance, something of a locked-room mystery, lots of suspects.

        Dr. Roma Gans, an emeritus professor of education at Teachers College of Columbia University who wrote several classic texts on teaching children to read, died on Oct. 4 at the Springside Nursing Home in Pittsfield, Mass.
David Robinson, film critic for The Times of London, wrote in a 1985 biography of Chaplin that the actor gave Miss Cherrill the part of the flower girl largely because she portrayed a blind person appealingly, in a test, after he advised her to look at him but ''to look inwardly and not to see me.
''The most striking finding of the three judges,'' Dr. Hooker wrote, ''was that many of the homosexuals were very well adjusted.
''
        Mrs. Kerr also compiled ''A Bully Father: Theodore Roosevelt's Letters to His Children'' (1995), for which she wrote the biographical essay and notes.
'' She wrote more than a dozen books in all.
Leonard Mosley wrote in his 1978 book ''Dulles'' that early in 1962, during the Kennedy Administration, Secretary of State Dean Rusk summoned her and said, ''The White House has asked me to get rid of you.
''
        Mrs. Dulles, in her memoirs, ''Eleanor Lansing Dulles: Chances of a Lifetime,'' published in 1980, wrote affectionately of her older brothers but did not hesitate to say that since childhood there were frictions among the siblings.
She also wrote ''Research on the Talented'' (1965) and ''The Effect of Ability Grouping'' (1966), both published by the college.
In an early experiment, she began a literacy campaign in the Nile delta and wrote about the improvements in the lives of village women.
Its founder and principal, Howard Friedman, wrote to the Astor foundation in 1989 seeking money for a library.
She contributed numerous articles and book reviews to art publications and also wrote about jade and Chinese art for the general reader.
Together, the Robbinses wrote ''Music for the Hearing Impaired and Other Special Groups: A Resource Manual and Curriculum Guide'' (MMB Music, 1980), a standard text in this specialized field.
Later, using Betty Freudenheim as her byline, she regularly contributed columns on crafts to The New York Times and wrote for magazines like American Crafts and Fiber Arts.
For five months in 1944, she and her family lived in a basement, and on occasion, she wrote, she hid in a filthy bathroom and an oven.
''This motion, so intensely human, transcends time,'' Mrs. Leakey wrote in the National Geographic magazine.
The work gave her ''a great sense of happiness and well-being,'' she wrote in her autobiography, ''Disclosing the Past,'' published in 1984, because the drawings afforded a glimpse of the lives of the hunter-gatherers who painted them.
''Basically, I have been compelled by curiosity,'' she wrote in her autobiography.
''I had never passed a single school exam, and clearly never would,'' she wrote.
As Mrs. Leakey wrote later, she was never the same again after ''Africa had cast its spell'' on her.
But in her autobiography, Mrs. Leakey wrote that after an earlier major find they ''cast aside care'' and that was how their son Philip ''came to join our family.
''I ended by losing my professional respect for Louis; and it had been very great indeed,'' she wrote.
Mrs. del Rio wrote more than 45 books of poetry, essays, plays, short stories and art history, and, in collaboration with her husband, Angel del Rio, ''Antologia de la Literatura Espanola,'' which was considered to be the Bible of Spanish literature.
In the 1970's, she returned to Puerto Rico, where she continued teaching and and where she wrote for local newspapers.
And as a reporter  at The New York Tribune and an assistant to the critic Heywood Broun, she wrote  book and theater reviews from 1919 to 1922 under the byline Rebecca Drucker and  the initials "R. D."
        During the same years, she became a charter member of the Lucy Stone League,  a group founded by Mr. Broun's wife, Ruth Hale, that encouraged married women to keep their names.

        Josephine Patterson Albright, who flew the mail, shot tigers in India, covered Chicago crime in journalism's colorful "Front Page" era, ran an Illinois dairy and pig farm, bred horses in Wyoming, wrote a column about her family and  helped establish a foundation for journalists, died on Monday at her home in Woodstock, Vt. She was 82.
"
        In "Ladies of the Press" (Harper & Brothers, 1936), Ishbel Ross wrote, "She sailed along successfully under her own steam, in spite of the professional handicap of being born into a noted newspaper family.
Mrs. Davenport wrote in her autobiography that her parents, whose marriage ended in divorce, "were part of the tidal wave of emigration from the Russian Pale and Eastern Europe which in a generation swept a million people, fleeing persecutions, pogroms and conscriptions, onto the shores of Manhattan Island.
She wrote one novel for adults, "Pumpkin Moon" (1994).
Mrs. Machover wrote a book on her research that is still in print, "Personality Projection in the Drawing of the Human Figure: A Method of Personality Investigation" (Charles C. Thomas, 1949).
"
        Mrs. Prou (pronounced proo) wrote two dozen novels.
Reviewing that book, William Cole wrote in the Saturday Review, "Madame Prou  weaves an incredibly fine net, the strands of which are passion, deceit, sadism, pride, seduction and burning hate.

        Jane Miller MacRae, an artist who wrote and illustrated children's books, died on Tuesday at her home in Hobe Sound, Fla. She was 89.
She wrote about the history of jazz dancing and  taught around the world, at schools and festivals that included the International Ballet Competition in Jackson, Miss., in 1986 and 1990.
She wrote two novels, "A Young Girl's Touch" (1956) and "A Love Match" (1969), though the latter was withdrawn because of threats of legal action by a  former friend.
In 1968, Mrs. Schwartz wrote "How to Go to Work When Your Husband Is Against  It, Your Children Aren't Old Enough and There's Nothing You Can Do Anyhow.
From 1942 to 1974, she wrote seven cantatas on Jewish themes, among them the frequently performed, "What Is Torah," which she wrote with her husband, Rabbi Ira Eisenstein.
From 1942 to 1974, she wrote seven cantatas on Jewish themes, among them the frequently performed, "What Is Torah," which she wrote with her husband, Rabbi Ira Eisenstein.
While Jews had borrowed much musically from  the nations and peoples they had lived among, she wrote in The New York Times, the music of Jews "bears the unmistakable stamp of their own peculiar wistfulness, puritanism, or wry humor.
"Kipling loved my great-grandfather and wrote lots of very bad poems to him," Lady Caroline said.
"As Cal wrote," she added, referring to Lowell, "if there's light at the end  of the tunnel, it's the light of the oncoming train.
Although she wrote on a variety of subjects, Miss Barry, who left The New Yorker in 1994, particularly enjoyed writing about the Dordogne region of southwestern France, where, not coincidentally, she owned a vacation home.
Working in different studies of the converted 17th-century barn that served as their home in Fairfield, Conn., they  wrote from 9 A.M. to 2 P.M. daily, she using the typewriter in the companionship of their cat, he writing in longhand accompanied by their dog.
