
        Kiharu Nakamura, a geisha in Tokyo in the 1930's who wrote a popular memoir and taught sopranos how to portray the most famous geisha in fiction, Madama Butterfly, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Jackson Heights, Queens.
She also wrote two other memoirs, as well as autobiographical novels.
''One newspaperman wrote that I was too old to run, that I should stay at home and take care of my children.
After the publication of ''Scarlett,'' Ms. Ripley wrote other novels that drew better reviews, including ''From Fields of Gold,'' published by Warner Books in 1994, and ''A Love Divine,'' a novel about Joseph of Arimathea, published by Warner Books in 1996.
'' she wrote in the third volume of her autobiography, which, with the first two, was dramatized in Jane Campion's 1990 film ''An Angel at My Table.
''All dreams,'' she wrote, ''lead back to the nightmare garden.
Her mother, who once worked as a maid in the home of the New Zealand writer Katherine Mansfield, wrote poems that she sold door to door.
She wrote her first novel, ''Owls Do Cry'' (Pegasus, 1957), while staying there.
She returned to New Zealand in 1964 and wrote more novels, and three volumes of autobiography (Braziller, 1982, 1984, 1985).
In between she wrote more than 100 books, with ''Bone and Dream,'' ''The Scream,'' ''Ghostly Beasts,'' ''In Thunder's Pocket'' and ''Lady Catherine's Necklace,'' all published in Britain since 2000.
''She was very young -- only just 17 -- a tall, rather gawky creature, by no means pretty, but with a face that one remembered,'' Le Gallienne wrote, adding she had ''the shy ungainly grace of a young colt.
Ms. Goldsmith wrote more than a half dozen humorous novels, including ''Switcheroo'' (HarperCollins, 1998) and ''Young Wives'' (HarperCollins, 2000).
In an interview with The Sunday Express of London, she said she wrote from anger, and she told ABC in 1998: ''Well, I just like things to work out fairly, you know?
''
        Said Mr. Ellison, ''She wrote these wonderful, celebratory satires, which seamlessly wove her moral convictions and instruction into these popular entertainments.
Mrs. Schechter wrote ''When Love Goes Wrong'' in 1992 with Ann Jones, a journalist.
In 1999, with Jeffrey L. Edleson, a professor at the University of Minnesota, she wrote a set of guidelines for professionals in civil courts, child welfare services and domestic violence programs.
She also wrote her own songs, and one of her first, ''Just One Look,'' released by Atlantic and written with Gregory Carroll, became a Top 10 hit in 1963.
''Even when she wrote something scathing of about one of my collections, it was constructive, not malicious or cutting,'' he said.
In a front-page article in The Times, Ms. Spindler wrote: ''What Mr. Sorrenti's death has revealed is that fashion photography is indeed a mirror of the tight-knit world that produces the photographs.
Perhaps, she wrote, ''the financially strained fashion industry is seeking salvation from above.
''Ours was not the posh West Wing of television fame,'' she wrote in an article in The Times in 2001 that reflected the kind of observation she brought to her many articles about architecture.
''
        In 2001, she wrote an article for The Times on her experience in the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, telling of her surreal night in a bomb shelter under the East Wing that she had never known existed.

        M. M. Kaye, the British writer and illustrator, who wrote ''The Far Pavilions,'' a luxuriant evocation of her upbringing in the India of the British Raj, died last Thursday.
Using her nickname Mollie Kaye, she wrote stories for younger readers, like her ''Potter Pinner'' series (1937-41), and ''Black Bramble Wood'' (1938).
Miss Kaye edited several volumes of poetry by Rudyard Kipling and wrote an autobiographical trilogy, ''The Sun in the Morning: My Early Years in India and England'' (St. Martin's, 1990), ''Golden Afternoon'' (St. Martin's, 1998), and ''Enchanted Evening'' (Viking, 1999).
Back in Germany, she wrote for a newspaper opposed to the Nazis.
Mr. Lash wrote the two-volume biography ''Eleanor and Franklin,'' published in 1972.
After leaving Zagat in 2001, she wrote a Barnes & Noble guide, ''Getting Into College'' (2003).
''O'Donnell created a poetical cloud of movement that refused to be hurried,'' Donald McDonagh wrote in his Complete Guide to Modern Dance.
But Strachey was in love with Ralph, who, Frances wrote, was ''hopelessly heterosexual'' and could not reciprocate.
An atheist by 12, Ms. Partridge attended Bedales, a progressive school where naked swimming was allowed, except off the high dive, ''since it was 12 feet high and its occupant was visible for miles,'' she wrote.
She wrote of ''the black velvet oblivion I dream about.
''There are an awful lot of days when nothing of general interest really happens: someone we have never heard of drops by for lunch (full menu included) with a second person we have never heard of, and they all gossip vaguely about what a third person we never heard of thinks of a fourth person we never heard of,'' he wrote.
''That fear, perhaps justified in some quarters, would be like blocking publication of damaging effects of Celebrex, thalidomide, or estrogen because the publication could slow work in disease prevention,'' she wrote in the May 2003 issue of The Annals, the publication of the American Academy of Political and Social Science.
She wrote some of her early papers with her first husband, William M. McCord.

        Lisa Gubernick, an author and reporter who wrote about the entertainment industry for The Wall Street Journal and as the Hollywood correspondent for Forbes magazine, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.
She wrote ''Squandered Fortune: The Life and Times of Huntington Hartford'' (Putnam, 1991) and ''Get Hot or Go Home: Trisha Yearwood, The Making of a Nashville Star'' (Morrow, 1993).
She was also a producer of several Tony-nominated plays and musicals, including David Hare's ''Skylight'' in 1996, ''Sweet Smell of Success'' in 2002 and ''The Play What I Wrote'' last year.
''When you dance, you can paint, sculpt, even write and compose,'' she once wrote.
Reviewing the production for a Paris daily, the French writer François Mauriac wrote: ''Ludmilla Tcherina in the role of St. Sebastian has a grace that is the Grace of God.

        Dr. Rhoda L. Fisher, a psychotherapist who with her husband, Seymour Fisher, wrote popular books on subjects as varied as humor and child-rearing, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter, Dr. Eve Whitmore, in Medina, Ohio.
''It is strange to find on the stately double-columned pages words to songs I listened to while sitting in the parking lot of an A & W root beer stand on Friday nights in high school,'' Mr. Atlas wrote.
During the preparation of that book, she wrote memo after memo, some of which made the case for keeping some of Shakespeare's most famous passages.
Correction:  April 1, 2004, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Emily Morison Beck, editor of three editions of Bartlett's Familiar Quotations, misspelled the surname of the poet who wrote ''Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard.
As Gilbert Millstein wrote in the The New York Times Magazine in 1959 -- shortly after George Abbott announced that he and an associate were writing a musical comedy for her -- she was ''encouraged to be piquantly voluble in an English that has resolutely withstood improvement in almost five years of residence in this country and to bat her eyes at Mr.
''True crime is the hottest game in town,'' J. Anthony Lukas wrote in The New York Times Book Review about the two books, both published in 1985.
Of her departure for California, David Truman, dean of Columbia College, wrote in Barnard's alumnae magazine that although she was the only woman at many Columbia meetings, her wisdom and humor gave weight to her advice and made her ''one of the best men in the university.
She spoke and wrote widely on education, the role of women and other topics, often breaking from conventional wisdom.
Ms. Bogoraz's second husband, Anatoloy Marchenko, was another prominent dissident, with whom she wrote a number of appeals and who was arrested in 1980.
She wrote a series of columns about the assassination and funeral of President John F. Kennedy that became one of the most evocative and enduring eulogies for the man and the times.
''He was just home from the Pacific when I first saw him in 1946,'' she wrote.
She then wrote a powerfully spare account of his funeral:
        ''His old friend, Cardinal Cushing of Boston, who married him, baptized his children and prayed over him in the icy air of his inaugural, said a Low Mass.
''
        She wrote a column steeped in reporting at a time when other columnists increasingly focused on attitude, analysis and television appearances, and she did her own legwork well into her 80's.
In his memoir ''A Good Life,'' Benjamin C. Bradlee, former executive editor of The Washington Post, wrote: ''In the 60's I had been allowed to carry her bags and typewriter during the presidential campaign.
She also wrote book reviews and the kind of features she called ''dog stories,'' but she was ''crazy'' about newspapering and felt stymied, Ms. McGrory said in an oral history for the Washington Press Club Foundation.
''For eight days,'' she wrote in an early column, ''the Army secretary has been having his honesty questioned, his motives impugned and his patriotism challenged.
''Nothing that Bill Clinton did in the matter of Monica Lewinsky shows any class or character,'' she wrote, but added: ''The Republicans are beyond reason.
' ''
        In a column about Richard M. Nixon's 1962 news conference after he lost the California governor's race, Ms. McGrory wrote: ''For Richard M. Nixon, it was exit snarling.
Ms. Markandaya wrote under a pseudonym.
Ms. Markandaya wrote in London, but made frequent trips back to India.
This was a woman who wrote her own funeral service.
In 1937, Mrs. Hudson and her sister Dovie began a habit of going to the courthouse and trying to register ''for the heck of it,'' she wrote in the book.
She wrote two books on landmark Supreme Court cases in a series for teenage readers.
''Every penny was well spent,'' he wrote, ''for here was popular commercial television displaying artistic vision and imagination.
Recalling her discovery, Ms. Courtenay-Latimer later wrote: ''I saw a blue fin and, pushing off the fish, the most beautiful fish I had ever seen was revealed.
Although best known for her discovery of the coelacanth, Ms. Courtenay-Latimer had a broader interest in natural history, and also wrote about wildflowers.
Mr. Friesen, a novelist and journalist, wrote the commentaries.
''
        With Mr. Friesen, who died in 1996, she wrote ''Red Dust and Broadsides: A Joint Autobiography,'' which was published in 1999.

        Rosemary Breslin, a journalist and screenwriter who wrote a piquant memoir about her own stubbornly undiagnosable illness, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan.
In addition to translating folk tales and Yiddish stories for children, she wrote several children's books herself, including ''The White Stallion'' (1982), a popular novel..
In addition to working for the Met, which she did through the 2003-04 season, she wrote surtitles or subtitles for the Washington National Opera, La Scala and the Public Broadcasting series ''Great Performances.
Her smart-talking fictional voice, making light of family problems large and small, carried through a 30-year career in which she wrote more than 30 books.
After being injured in two automobile accidents, she decided not to postpone her ambition any longer and wrote her first book.
With her friend, Ann M. Martin, the author of ''The Baby Sitters Club'' series, Ms. Danziger also wrote two epistolary novels for slightly older readers, ''P.S.
Starting in the mid-1950's, Ms. Waldo wrote more than two dozen travel guides and cookbooks, which she periodically updated.
A book she wrote in 1955 with the actress Gertrude Berg, ''The Molly Goldberg Cookbook,'' based on Ms. Berg's famous television character, was reissued most recently in 1999.
She wrote ''The International Encyclopedia of Cooking'' and ''The Dictionary of International Food and Cooking Terms'' (Macmillan, 1967).
Correction:  August 4, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Thursday about Myra Waldo, an author of travel guides and cookbooks, gave an incomplete title for a book she wrote with the actress Gertrude Berg.
In books including ''I Thought I Heard the City'' and ''Sam's Place: Poems From the Country,'' she explored her own childhood memories and wrote about the joy of finding beauty in familiar and unexpected places.
In addition to her career as a soprano, in which her heavy makeup made her a symbolic image in Turkish culture, she was known internationally for her paintings, which often depicted a little girl, a personification of herself
        She was born in 1910 in Istanbul, where her father was an accountant who wrote poetry and her mother was a painter.
''I always say that death can be one of the greatest experiences ever,'' she wrote in an autobiography in 1997.
''For years, I have been stalked by a bad reputation,'' she wrote in her 1997 autobiography, ''The Wheel of Life: A Memoir of Living and Dying.
Avoiding the subject entirely, particularly when treating the young, physicians and therapists would meet a dying child's questions with comments like, ''Take your medicine, and you'll get well,'' Dr. Kübler-Ross wrote in ''On Death and Dying,'' which incorporated her account of the Chicago seminars.
Robert Monroe, an engineer from Virginia who wrote ''Journeys Out of the Body,'' invited her -- at a time when, as it turned out, she was seriously ill with a bowel obstruction -- to participate in experiments with a group of physicians, psychiatrists from the Menninger Foundation and engineers.

        Gloria Emerson, a journalist and author who wrote with angry dignity about the effects of war on Americans, Vietnamese and Palestinians, was found dead by friends and the police yesterday morning in her apartment in Manhattan.
Both as a foreign correspondent for The New York Times in Vietnam in the early 1970's and later as a writer of nonfiction books and a novel, Ms. Emerson wrote passionately about ordinary people and soldiers ground up by the machinery of war in places like Vietnam, Gaza and Algeria.
War as she wrote about it was not ennobling but debasing, a misery that inflicted physical suffering and psychic damage on civilians, children, and soldiers on both sides.
She was working in the London bureau of The Times in 1969 when, as she wrote in an obituary she left with a covering note that was dated Tuesday, ''Ms.
''Teddy did not seem to always know what the others were saying,'' she wrote.
''Made to feel inferior, treated with contempt and cruelty, the Gazans struggled to transcend their own feelings of helplessness,'' she wrote then.
''When I'm in New York,'' Miss Wray wrote in The New York Times in 1969, ''I look at the Empire State Building and feel as though it belongs to me, or is it vice versa?
In later years she also wrote plays that were produced in regional theaters.
She also wrote for several food magazines and became a spokeswoman and consultant for a pantry full of products, including olive oil, strawberries, catfish and Alaskan seafood.
'' The book, she wrote, could well be titled ''French Cooking From the American Supermarket.
When she wrote recipes, they were long and detailed because, she said, she felt obligated to ensure their success.
''It is as if Alsop had attended the festivities herself, and then, returning at dawn, recounted each and every detail so as not to lose a crumb,'' Prince Michael of Greece wrote in a review in The Washington Post.
During more than two decades at Yale she also organized and wrote catalogs for numerous exhibitions at the Yale University Art Gallery, including ''The Futurist Imagination: Word + Image in Italian Futurist Painting, Drawing, Collage and Free-Word Poetry'' in 1983 and ''Severini Futurista, 1912-1917'' in 1995.
''
        Roger Shattuck, a cultural historian and professor of French at Boston University, said in 1995 that Ms. Sagan's reputation ''had declined considerably after her first half-dozen novels'' because she wrote too much and repeated herself and because of changing literary fashions.
''Whoever has not thrilled to speed has not thrilled to life,'' she wrote in ''With Fondest Regards'' (1985).
She felt she ''had to do something'' to placate them, she would recall, so she sat down and wrote ''Bonjour Tristesse'' in August.
''It was inconceivable,'' she wrote, ''that a young girl of 17 or 18 should make love without being in love with a boy of her own age, and not be punished for it.
She wrote a book about the artist, ''Peter Voulkos: A Dialogue With Clay'' .
''The birds have taken the worst beating of all,'' she wrote.
''
        After the book was reissued last year in the wake of the second gulf war, Michiko Kakutani wrote in a review in The New York Times that ''the opening sections of these diaries give the reader a tactile and highly personal sense of how the allied bombing of Baghdad in 1991 affected ordinary Iraqi civilians.
Reviewing ''Ants on the Melon'' in The New York Times Book Review, Brad Leithauser wrote, ''Given how much darkness the book contains -- meditations on the atom bomb, her husband's death, a drowned girl, the literal dark of blindness -- it casts a surprisingly bright afterglow.
''
        In the poem ''Break-In,'' Ms. Adair wrote:
        Hearing the footsteps of thieves
        in the dark downstairs:
        what are you looking for?
In 1939, she married Marcel Leibovici, a pianist who wrote songs for Piaf.
Ms. Rubens wrote the first of her 25 books when she was 35, to cope with what she later described to The New York Times as ''the kind of despair that any intelligent woman has today.
In 1966, while still married to her husband, she wrote a thinly veiled account of his infidelity in ''Mate in Three.
''
        Men once used the script but lost interest, not least because they were educated in Mandarin, Dr. Miller wrote in February on a Web site, keywords.oxus.net.
In the lessons, the teacher wrote a strip of characters, as Ms. Yang watched.
The woman sang as she wrote, and Ms. Yang sang the same songs when she studied by herself.
Once Ms. Yang mastered Nushu, she, too, wrote for others, but charged only for marriage booklets.

        Hildy Parks Cohen, the producer, writer and actress known as Hildy Parks who wrote the first 20 Tony Awards telecasts as well as 20 other television specials, including the Emmy Awards, died on Thursday at the Actors Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 78.
Parks wrote them.
She also wrote the 37th and 38th annual Emmy Awards; ''Plácido Domingo: Steppin' Out With the Ladies'' on ABC in 1985; and NBC's 60th anniversary show in 1986.
Ms. Gee mounted new shows at roughly five-week intervals and wrote the news releases.
Ms. Gee mounted new shows at roughly five-week intervals and wrote the news releases.
The flagship store, Martha, was on Park Avenue near 58th Street in Manhattan; there were also stores in Trump Tower and in Palm Beach and Bal Harbour, Fla.
        Ms. Manulis (MAN-you-liss), whom almost everyone called Miss Lynn, and her mother, known as Miss Martha, were for decades ''the doyennes of haute couture in America,'' The New York Times wrote in 1992.
Ms. Alkhateeb wrote and lectured extensively to challenge stereotypes of Muslims, and particularly of Muslim women.
In the 1970's, Ms. Alkhateeb wrote for The Saudi Gazette, an English-language newspaper in Jidda, and she edited an English translation of the Koran.
What she learned would force her to describe the indescribable:
        ''Many soldiers went beyond rape to disembowel women, slice off their breasts, nail them alive to walls,'' Ms. Chang wrote.
Ms. Chang also wrote ''The Chinese in America: A Narrative History,'' published last year by Viking.
In a 1998 interview with The Straits Times of Singapore, Ms. Chang described her reasons for writing ''The Rape of Nanking'':
        ''I wrote it out of a sense of rage,'' she said.
She wrote or edited almost 30 books for children, including at least 14 poetry anthologies.
She wrote dozens of articles for education journals.
''
        She also wrote her own books, which she illustrated, including ''How Six Found Christmas'' (Holiday House, 1991); ''A Little Alphabet'' (William Morrow, 1993); her retelling of the Grimms' ''Little Red Riding Hood'' (Holiday House, 1983); and ''Self-Portrait: Trina Schart Hyman'' (Addison-Wesley, 1981).
''I love the actual digging, the rhythmical swing of the arms and the bending and pushing with the whole body,'' Dr. de Laguna wrote in ''Voyage to Greenland'' (1977), a memoir of her first field trip, made when she was 22.
''How could I realize the hold which this experience -- the free life, the happy, fascinating natives, the absorbing work and the loyal comradeship -- has obtained over me,'' she wrote in a letter home at the end of the trip.
She wrote two mystery novels with anthropological settings, ''The Arrow Points to Murder'' (1937) and ''Fog on the Mountain'' (1938).
Ms. Schlein wrote to educate while also entertaining her readers.
'' In the 1950's she also wrote some stories about children and animals that won her wide recognition and awards, including ''Four Little Foxes,'' ''Elephant Herd,'' and ''When Will the World Be Mine?
'' ''The great surprise of 'Aleko' was the superb Zemphira of Alicia Markova,'' Robert wrote.
''It is a voice of range and colors of all sorts, and one that throbs with feeling,'' he wrote.
A highly visible public figure since the mid-1960's, Ms. Sontag wrote four novels, dozens of essays and a volume of short stories and was also an occasional filmmaker, playwright and theater director.
She wrote serious studies of popular art forms, like cinema and science fiction, that earlier critics disdained.
She wrote experimental novels on dreams and the nature of consciousness.
After the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, she wrote in The New Yorker, ''Whatever may be said of the perpetrators of Tuesday's slaughter, they were not cowards.
''My greatest dream,'' she later wrote, ''was to grow up and come to New York and write for Partisan Review and be read by 5,000 people.
(A journalist, he wrote ''Slaughterhouse: Bosnia and the Failure of the West,'' published by Simon & Schuster in 1995.
''The experiences of Camp are based on the great discovery that the sensibility of high culture has no monopoly on refinement,'' Ms. Sontag wrote.
In the essay ''Trip to Hanoi,'' which appears in ''Styles of Radical Will,'' she wrote glowingly of a visit to North Vietnam.
Reviewing the novel in The Times, Michiko Kakutani wrote: ''One thing that makes 'The Volcano Lover' such a delight to read is the way it throws off ideas and intellectual sparks, like a Roman candle or Catherine wheel blazing in the night.
After they wrote for various publications, the team as Alexander Bland began writing dance reviews in 1955 in The Observer, a weekly for which Gosling was also the art critic.
To readers unfamiliar with her work, ''Selected Poems'' presented a generous and judicious sampling of a long and successful career, Brian Henry wrote in The New York Times Book Review.
''
        Mr. Henry wrote that he considered Ms. Van Duyn's first three books to be her best, especially ''To See, To Take,'' her second, which won the National Book Award for Poetry in 1971.
She wrote several books on physical education, sports and dance, including ''Modern Dance Techniques and Teaching'' (1946), written with Gertrude Shurr, an early Martha Graham dancer and longtime colleague.
Dr. Yocom also wrote songs and was a dance photographer.
She wrote and illustrated several children's books, including ''The Zoo of Zeus'' (1964) and ''Gilgamesh'' (1967).
She also wrote a 1972 monograph on Ben Shahn's work.
''One thing I like about Zen,'' she wrote.
Together Henny and Jim Backus wrote several blithe books about their marriage, including ''What Are You Doing After the Orgy?
