In a new book, ''The Story of Barbara,'' Mrs. Fryer wrote of her daughter's condition, which might have had a different outcome with the alternative treatments for schizophrenia emerging then.
Mrs. Fryer wrote of the ''unexpected, miraculous'' deliverance when Kathy's condition was recognized and swiftly overcome.

        Helen Foster Snow, who helped bring social change to China in the 1930's, witnessed revolution and war and throughout wrote to promote American-Chinese understanding, died on Saturday at the Fowler Nursing Center in Guilford, Conn. She was 89 and lived in Madison, Conn.
Snow, the leftist journalist who later wrote ''Red Star Over China.
Later, under the pseudonym Bamboo, she wrote a polo column for The East African Monthly, answering readers' questions despite her ignorance about the game.
But attracted to journalism, she wrote dozens of articles for British magazines and newspapers and took a job for $:5 a week as a press officer at the Empire Marketing Board in England.
'' In a review in The New York Times, Michiko Kakutani wrote, ''It makes us appreciate the peculiar mixture of courage, rashness, perseverance, idealism and opportunism that brought such a varied group of people to this beautiful, dangerous land.
''
        As the African nationalist movement gathered steam, Mrs. Huxley wrote a number of articles defending white settlers and colonial rule.
She later wrote with lucid sympathy about the challenges facing the newly independent nations under majority rule.
She wrote four books, ''Housing for the Elderly'' (1957), ''Housing and the Disabled'' (1976), ''Housing for the Handicapped'' (1977) and ''Housing for Rural Elderly'' (1982).
When her German maid's brother-in-law wrote from the Russian front asking for an aluminum spoon, noting that his wife had told him none was available in Germany, she picked up a critical clue about the war's effects on German production.
After the war, her daughter said, Miss Bancroft settled in New York, wrote a few novels, lectured on Jung, became active in local Democratic politics, became friends with Woody Allen and became Luce's confidant.
Over the next decades Dr. Barbosa researched and wrote numerous books, pamphlets and papers on Puerto Rican political history, some based on her father's papers.
Betjeman wrote two poems about Ms. Piper, ''Myfanwy'' and ''Myfanwy at Oxford,'' both published in 1940.
Besides editing Axis, Ms. Piper edited a book of essays, ''The Painter's Object,'' and wrote a biography of Frances Hodgkins for the Penguin Modern Painters series.
Ms. Piper also wrote a play, ''The Diary of a Seducer,'' based on Kierkegaard, as well as the librettos for Malcolm Williamson's ''Easter'' and several operas by the Welsh composer Alun Hoddinot, including ''What the Old Man Does Is Always Right,'' ''The Rajah's Diamond'' and ''The Trumpet Major.
Mrs. Dixon, the writer of a syndicated astrology column (her zodiac sign was Capricorn), also wrote other books, including ''Yesterday, Today and Forever'' (1976, Andrews & McMeel).
Stefan Kanfer, a writer on cultural topics, wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1992: ''The real summa of tabloid sensitivity is not found on earth but in the supernovas.
Mrs. Hurd wrote some 75 books for elementary-school children covering the range of juvenile curiosity.
She wrote and he drew the pictures for almost 50 books until their last collaboration on ''The Earth is Not Flat'' (1986).
At Bank Street College she also met Margaret Wise Brown, with whom she wrote several children's books under the joint pseudonym of Juniper Sage.
Mrs. Hurd also wrote science books for young readers, some of which were also illustrated by her husband.
Ms. Ziminska-Sygietynska became famous as a cabaret singer for whom leading Polish poets wrote songs.
Barber wrote his Concerto for her in 1946; her 1966 recording of the work for the American Decca label has been reissued several times.
Mr. Schuller wrote his ''Fantasy'' for Miss Garbousova in 1951 and a work in her honor, ''Hommage a Rayechka,'' for cello ensemble, in 1990.
They also wrote many articles on sexism in English that appeared in national periodicals and in more than 30 anthologies and textbooks.
In it, they wrote: ''Except for words that refer to females by definition (mother, actress, Congresswoman), and words for occupations traditionally held by females (nurse, secretary, prostitute), the English language defines everyone as male.
At The Times, she wrote about beauty and also about the social scene in the 1960's.
Although she wrote verses, stories, plays and several well-received novels, Miss Panter-Downes considered herself more journalist than novelist.
Describing the first jittery days of the war, for example, when sirens often sounded in shrill false alarm, all London, she wrote, ''felt like a little boy who stuffs his fingers in his ears on the Fourth of July only to discover that the cannon cracker has not gone off after all.
She later wrote several other novels, including ''One Fine Day,'' typically, about an ordinary midlands family, which was published in 1947 and reissued by Virago in 1986.
She found the lemon-flavored cake inedible -- ''mush on the outside and soup on the inside'' -- and wrote that it left the oven in a mess.
In addition to developing and testing recipes, Mrs. Hewitt wrote a number of New York Times Cook Books, including ''Main Dish,'' ''Heritage'' and ''Weekend.
In addition to those duties, she researched and wrote about food and reviewed New Jersey restaurants.
In 1975, she was named food editor of Family Circle, a Times Company publication, where she wrote more books, including the ''Family Circle Quick and Easy Menu Cook Book.

        Emily Hahn, an early feminist and a prolific author who wrote 54 books and more than 200 articles for The New Yorker, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan.
Over the course of her career, Ms. Hahn wrote about Chinese cooking, about feminism (''Once Upon a Pedestal: An Informal History of Women's Lib,'' 1974) and about diamonds (''Diamond: The Spectacular Story of Earth's Rarest Treasure and Man's Greatest Greed,'' 1956).
In her later years, Ms. Hahn wrote several books about animals, including ''Eve and the Apes'' (1988), about women who owned apes.
After her death, a former editor of The Observer, Donald Trelford, wrote in The Guardian that she was ''the first female political correspondent of a major British newspaper'' and ''had one of the most distinguished careers any woman has had in British journalism.
''She looked fabulous, almost breathtaking,'' he wrote in his book ''Life of the Party.
''
        ''Her smile can appear too practiced but tonight it was wonderfully wise and guileless,'' he wrote.
'' On the subject of English shoes, Ms. Halsey wrote: ''Englishwomen's shoes look as if they had been made by someone who had often heard shoes described but had never seen any.
In the book, Ms. Halsey wrote that a need for a cheap labor supply and a fear of blacks' sexuality were at the heart of racism.
During the 1950's and 60's, her life took a darker course, and she wrote about her problems in ''No Laughing Matter: The Autobiography of a WASP'' (1977).
She took the rejection of the treaty as a personal affront and later wrote a prize-winning essay on the episode at the Horace Mann School, then went off to Smith College, where she was an acclaimed athlete.
She wrote his speeches, helped develop his strategic positions and political initiatives and orchestrated his legendary informational hearings.
''My views on capital punishment have been shaped by my life,'' she  once wrote.
Mrs. Wertenbaker wrote 16 other books, both fiction and nonfiction, among them ''The Eye of the Lion,'' a novel based on the life of Mata Hari, published by Little, Brown in 1964, and ''To Mend the Heart,'' a book about cardiac surgery, published by Viking in 1980.
She also edited books, wrote articles for Fortune, Life and U.S. News and World Report, and television scripts for the ''20th Century'' documentary series for Walter Cronkite and CBS.
She taught courses on free expression at Queens College of the City University of New York and the New School of Social Research, and wrote and lectured widely on freedom of expression.
Ms. Baker estimated that she had lost $15,000 in royalties and wrote her Congressman to protest, receiving only campaign material in return.
When Ms. Marchowsky presented her own choreography in the 1940's, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, said her work was rooted in the Graham style of the 1930's but, as he wrote in 1948, there were ''many moments of individual creativeness.
Describing Miss Marchowsky as a dancer, Mr. Martin wrote in 1946: ''She moves beautifully; her technique is excellent and perfectly controlled over a wide dynamic range.
Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Thomas Lask wrote: ''Here is a charmer: a 19th-century book in a 20th-century world.
''The Newman arrived almost a week ago and I'm just beginning to recover,'' she wrote in 1950 after buying a first edition of John Henry Newman's ''Idea of a University'' (1852) for $6.
But although Ms. Hanff wrote 20 plays through the 1940's, none were ever produced.
''
        ''I wrote great dialogue, but I couldn't invent a story to save my neck,'' she told The New York Times in 1982.
And in London there is a brass plaque on the wall with my name on it, to mark the spot where the bookshop once stood, because I wrote letters to it.
A seemingly tireless worker, Mrs. Norman wrote a weekly column in The New York Post titled ''A World to Live In'' from 1942 to 1949.
Among the other books she wrote or edited were ''The Selected Writings of John Marin'' (1949); ''Indira Gandhi: Letters to an American Friend'' (1985) and ''Encounters: a Memoir'' (1987).
She presented a broader view of the subject in subsequent books on sex and marriage and in columns she wrote for This Week and Girl Talk magazines in the 1960's and early 1970's.
During the 1980's, she wrote an advice column for New Woman and Woman magazines.
She served as chief yeoman in the Navy in World War I and as a judge advocate in the Army in World War II, taught school in Puerto Rico, ran a flying school, turned out columns for The New York World, wrote half a dozen books, founded The Murray Hills News, represented celebrated murder defendants, ran repeatedly for Congress, corresponded with George Bernard Shaw, feuded with Eleanor Roosevelt, hobnobbed with the King of Greece, turned down marriage proposals from Harry K. Thaw and Fiorello H. La Guardia, and so clouded the issue of her age that even her own family is not sure if she was 99 or 103.
Not only did she serve as Miss Nancy in the studio-classroom that was her on-air preserve, she also created and wrote many ''Romper Room'' segments and trained the Miss Nancys, Miss Marys, Miss Mollys and Miss Louises who were her counterparts on franchised versions of the show around the country.
Ms. Johnson wrote numerous books and catalogues including ''Georges Rouault and His Prints,'' ''20th-Century Master Drawings,'' ''American Prints and Printmakers,'' ''Isabel Bishop, Prints and Drawings: 1925-1964,'' ''Adja Yunkers: 1927-1967,'' ''The American Woodcut: 1670-1950'' and, most important, a monograph about the  French art dealer Ambroise Vollard that catalogued his activities as a publisher of prints and illustrated books.
In addition to contributing papers and articles to professional journals, she wrote books.
Her first effort drew such a bemused reaction from her older sisters, she later recalled, that she wrote no more poems for years.
An expert on ice dancing and champion figure skating, she wrote about those fields and about dance for Ballet News, where she was also an editor, and for Dance International, Stage Bill, Geo and Connoisseur.
Ms. Cruso, a witty, acerbic Englishwoman, wrote and starred in the weekly public-television program ''Making Things Grow'' from 1966 to 1969.
In addition to her broadcasting career, which also included a household-advice program, ''Making Things Work,'' in the early 70's, Ms. Cruso wrote a gardening column for The Boston Globe for 22 years.
Altogether, she wrote or edited a dozen books, including ''Ripening: Selected Works, 1927-1980'' (1982), an acclaimed compilation from the oeuvre of the radical feminist writer Meridel Le Sueur.
'' Reviewing it when it opened at the American Place Theater, Mel Gussow of The New York Times wrote, ''Just sitting in her kitchen, lining the thin soles of her shoes with paper while telling tales of her midwifery, Ms. Foster is a moving presence, as she has been in many other plays.
''
        Another critic, reviewing the play ''You Have Come Back,'' set in Algeria, at St. Clement's Church in Manhattan in 1988, wrote, ''Frances Foster gives such a superb performance as the 103-year-old nurse that it is a revelation just to watch her move about the stage, creating an old Algerian woman out of a few lines.
''
        And Frank Rich of The Times wrote admiringly in 1985 that Ms. Foster was ''a big woman'' with ''a big repertory of comic voices, ranging from a raspy belt to a maternal croon to a ditsy English matron's stiff-upper-register.
After marrying a writer named Shigeru Inuta, Mrs. Sumii wrote novels and children's stories, campaigned for equal rights and social issues, raised four children, and worked on the family's farm.
Ms. Daves (pronounced DAY-vis) also represented such renowned authors as Frank O'Connor, Isaac Babel, Vaclav Havel and Rachel Carson, the trailblazing environmentalist who wrote ''Silent Spring'' and ''The Sea Around Us.
She also wrote ''Orion,'' a mystical odyssey, which she published at her own expense.
She wrote two books and numerous articles for a variety of publications.
She also wrote poetry, which was as homely as her canvases:
        Now my one room house has only me,
        I never roam,
        No lessons have I.
She wrote a number of books for young readers, using the pen name Alex Rider, and reviewed books for The New York Times Book Review, The Nation and other publications.
''
        She also wrote, ''In a way I regard American audiences as my children, because I helped to educate them.
In her autobiography, she wrote: ''Every woman has an image -- mother, princess, ballerina -- that she must uphold.
But Miss Halle, who wrote for The Cleveland Plain Dealer and other publications, conducted radio interviews with public figures and provided intermission commentary for Cleveland Orchestra broadcasts, was at her best in private settings.
Even intimates who are certain, for example, that she had been Joseph Kennedy's favorite mistress cannot say for sure whether her friendship with Gershwin, who wrote her gushing letters, had been a full-fledged romance.
But her strongest indictment came in her book, a blunt and graphic account, which she wrote in longhand on sheets of lined paper and which has been published in the Philippines and Japan.
''My work began, and I lay down as one by one the soldiers raped me,'' Mrs. Henson wrote.
''
        Ms. Adler also wrote ''A Day in the Life of The New York Times'' (J.
She occasionally wrote articles for The Times's Sunday magazine or travel section.
''Some of the best people had worked for The Times for years before Times Talk revealed that they were actually first-rate reporters,'' he wrote.
Proficient in French, German, Spanish and Armenian, she was a prolific author of scholarly essays and wrote several books in her field, among them ''The Literary Origins of Surrealism'' (1947), a study of the founders of modern French poetry, and ''Surrealism: The Road to the Absolute'' (1959), an exposition of Surrealist literature and art.
She spoke and wrote in recent years against what she saw as tendencies toward separatism and divisiveness in a multicultural America.
''Traditional fragmented care for the individual parent and infant will not do,'' she wrote in a 1993 article for the National Center for Clinical Infant Programs.
His parents were paranoid schizophrenics who fought constantly, she wrote in one of her case studies.
After she left the Government, she traveled the world as a consultant on population control and family planning and wrote articles for social science journals and a well-received book, with Elizabeth C. Mooney, ''Not My Daughter: Facing Up to Adolescent Pregnancy'' (Prentice-Hall, 1979).
In a 1983 review of an Off Broadway appearance in a play called ''Elba,'' Frank Rich wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Lindley, ''a dotty comedienne too long absent from the New York stage, brings convincing spine to Flo, a pioneer woman adrift in the 20th century.
Miss Kingsley wrote screenplays for more than 25 movies, specializing in musicals and comedies.
Under contract to MGM, she wrote a series of films for Esther Williams, including ''Bathing Beauty,'' ''Neptune's Daughter'' (both co-starring Red Skelton) and ''Jupiter's Darling.
'' She later wrote, by herself or in collaboration, the film adaptations of the Broadway musicals ''Kiss Me, Kate,'' ''Pal Joey'' and ''Can-Can,'' and was the co-author of ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers.
I only wrote because I needed the money.
As a baseball fan, she wrote ''Angels in the Outfield'' in the 1950's and received screenplay credit when the movie was remade in 1994.
It was her mother who lived and wrote the Betsy-Tacy life, not so much creating as copying her characters whole from her own turn-of-the-century childhood in Mankato, Minn., or Deep Valley, as it is known in the 10 main Betsy-Tacy books and three satellite volumes.
But except for a column she wrote for the Betsy-Tacy Society newsletter, she showed little interest in her childhood and none in fiction.
''With them was a handsome American girl, Mary Jayne Gold, who gave them vast sums of money for their noble work in which she also took a hand,'' Peggy Guggenheim wrote in her memoirs, ''Out of This Century,'' recalling that she visited the chateau as part of her own plan to finance the escape of several artists, including Max Ernst, whom she later married.
''I was not there to witness the worst, only the beginning,'' Miss Gold wrote in her memoir, ''Crossroads Marseilles 1940,'' published by Doubleday in 1980.
She wrote and edited many books about the history and methodology of a broad spectrum of sciences, among them mathematics, physics, anthropology and archeology.
(The task of collecting the signatures was given to Mrs. Kennedy's secretary, Mary Gallagher, who neglected to sign one, herself, and eventually wrote her own tell-all with Miss Leighton, ''My Boss,'' in 1969.
She also wrote of wild mustangs, thoroughbreds, Arab stallions, Lippizaners and, notably, Gaudenza, the pride of the Palio, the annual horseback competition in Siena, Italy.
She wrote of dogs and all manner of living things in a characteristic style, weaving the romance and history of mankind's association with the animal world into her illustrated texts.
At Milwaukee State Teachers' College she wrote prodigiously and acted in plays.
She also wrote articles for a number of magazines.
With Ms. Meuli, Ms. Carabello also wrote ''The Feminization of Power'' (Fund for the Feminist Majority, 1988).

        Ruth Goode, who wrote about subjects as disparate as the scenic attractions of Maine, advancements in medicine and the life of the impresario Sol Hurok, died on Oct. 27 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan.
Beginning in 1933, Ms. Goode wrote fiction and nonfiction under her maiden name, Seinfel; her married name, Goode; a pseudonym, Julia Rainer, and anonymously.
With Dr. Benjamin R. Miller, Ms. Goode wrote ''Man and His Body'' (1960), which included the most recent discoveries  about DNA, hormones and other topics.
She also wrote ''A Book for Grandmothers'' (1977).
As she recalled, she hired an artist to exaggerate the effect and wrote her own copy for the ad: ''Grow your own .
''
        The poet Kenneth Rexroth once wrote that Ms. Levertov was ''the most subtly skillful poet of her generation, the most profound, the most modest, the most moving.
''
        In the tradition established by William Carlos Williams, she wrote with a concrete immediacy of language.
The author of more than 30 books of poetry, essays and translations, she wrote with great particularity and sensitivity about aspects of love, spiritual as well as erotic.
''
        In ''The Ache of Marriage,'' she wrote:
        The ache of marriage:
        thigh and tongue, beloved,
        are heavy with it,
        it throbs in the teeth
        We look for communion
        and are turned away, beloved,
        each and each
        It is leviathan and we
        in its belly
        looking for joy, some joy
        not to be known outside it
        two by two in the ark of
        the ache of it.
And in ''Of Being,'' she wrote:
        I know this happiness
        is provisional:
        the looming presences --
        great suffering, great fear --
        withdraw only
        into peripheral vision:
        but ineluctable this shimmering
        of wind in the blue leaves:
        this flood of stillness
        widening the lake of sky:
        this need to dance,
        this need to kneel:
        this mystery:
        A defining moment of her life was the Vietnam War.
When Ms. Levertov's 11th collection of verse, ''The Freeing of the Dust,'' was published in 1975, the poet David Ignatow wrote in The New York Times Book Review that ''by nearly unanimous agreement Levertov was well on her way to becoming one of our leading poets'' with ''her forceful and compassionate presentations of urban lives'' and ''the beauty and sensuousness of her nature poems.
Ms. Levertov wrote through six decades.
In ''New and Selected Essays'' she wrote, ''One is in despair over the current manifestation of malevolent imbecility and the seemingly invincible power of rapacity, yet finds oneself writing a poem about the trout lilies in the spring woods.
Asia,'' she wrote:
        I am the snow that burns.
Mrs. Simmons wrote 35 books and many pamphlets on herbs, including ''Saints in My Garden,'' ''The Witches Brew,'' ''The Gold Wreath Book'' and ''A Merry Christmas Herbal.
'' Judge Scheindlin wrote, going out of her way to cite Mr. Giuliani's daily presence in the local newspapers and his appearance in drag last month on ''Saturday Night Live.
Reviewing the show in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson wrote that Miss Geva ''is so magnificent as the mistress of the dance that she can burlesque it with the authority of an artist on a holiday.
