With Mr. Guzzo she wrote two books: "Trashing the Planet: How Science Can Help Us Deal With Acid Rain, Depletion of the Ozone, and Nuclear Waste (Among Other Things)," published in 1990, and "Environmental Overkill," published this year.
's Center for International Studies, the Asia Society in New York, the Special Operations Research office in Washington and the Center for Naval Analyses in Arlington, Va.
        She wrote extensively for professional journals and was the author of several books, including "Indonesia: A Profile" (1961), and "Mohammed, Marx and Marhaen, the Roots of Indonesian Socialism" (1965).
In later years she visited visit Spain now and then, but she continued to live in France, where she wrote about her past life, about women's rights and about union matters.
      
An active member of the Friends Meeting in Cambridge, Mass., she frequently wrote about Quaker life and history.
" She also wrote a history of American Quakers, "A Procession of Friends" (1972).

        Mildred Gilman Wohlforth, who wrote books and magazine articles and was a New York newspaperwoman during the Roaring Twenties, died on Monday at her home in Ridgefield, Conn. She was 97.
Mrs. Wohlforth later became secretary to the columnist and author Heywood Broun and wrote a second novel, "Headlines.
In addition to her catalogue texts she wrote "Klee at the Guggenheim" (1977).
She selected and scheduled authors and other literary figures, briefed NBC anchors and correspondents and wrote questions they asked the guests.
" On hearing her American debut in San Francisco in "Madama Butterfly" in 1939, Olin Downes wrote in The New York Times: "There is grace, warmth, communicative feeling in all that she does.
Her other books -- she wrote more than two dozen, all told -- included "A Calabash of Diamonds" (1961), a personal account of an African safari; "Purely for Pleasure" (1967), a collection of essays, and "The Day of the Feast" (1968), a novel.
She also wrote children's books.
She also wrote many papers and articles for scholarly journals.
She wrote 12 books and more than 300 articles on teaching.
She also wrote "Don't Throw Glass Houses," which was produced on Broadway in 1938.
"
        In later years she was a head writer for daytime television dramas and wrote scripts for "General Hospital" and "Search for Tomorrow" in addition to "All My Children," for which she received an Emmy in the 1970's.

        Sally Belfrage, who wrote nonfiction books about life in an Indian ashram and about the civil rights movement in Mississippi in 1964, died yesterday at Middlesex Hospital in London.
In "Un-American Activities" she wrote, "My mother was a mere English eccentric, but my father was a Red and so in trouble all the time.
Her 1965 marriage to Bernard Pomerance, who wrote the play "The Elephant Man," ended in divorce in 1976.
Treating the Whole Person
        While physicians respond to the immediate medical condition of a patient, "nursing is concerned with evaluating the simultaneous state of the individual (or group) and the environment and the preceding configuration leading up to the present," she wrote.
"
        Ms. Zetterling also wrote children's books, short stories and novels, one of which, "Night Games," she adapted and directed for the screen.
During her career Mrs. Robinson wrote more than 20 books for children between the ages of 7 and 12.
She also wrote stories for children published by Scholastic Inc. She was a 1964 graduate of Vassar College.
She wrote for religious and educational magazines and appeared on broadcasts.
While recovering from an illness, Mrs. Millar wrote her first mystery, "The Invisible Worm" (1941), about a multiple murder.
She wrote 21 mystery novels, most of them set in Santa Barbara, notably "A Stranger in My Grave" (1961), "How Like an Angel" (1961), "The Fiend" (1964), "Beyond This Point Are Monsters" (1970) and "Banshee" (1983).
Branching Out
        She also wrote four nonmystery novels and a work of nonfiction, "The Birds and Beasts Were There" (1968).
Mr. Dassin directed, and often wrote and produced, most of Miss Mercouri's nearly 20 other movies, including "He Who Must Die" (1957), about life overtaking a Passion play in a primitive village on Crete; Mr. Dassin co-adapted the story from the novel "The Greek Passion," by Nikos Kazantzakis.
She wrote many papers in her field and received several awards.
After that she worked briefly for McCall's magazine as a contributing editor and wrote a column for consumers.
Beginning in the early 1970's, Ms. Picard wrote on art for Interview and the East Village Other and was New York art correspondent for Kunstform International and Die Welt.
John H. Davis, a cousin who wrote "The Bouviers," a family history, in 1993, described her as a young woman who outwardly seemed to conform to social norms.
But he wrote that she possessed a "fiercely independent inner life which she shared with few people and would one day be partly responsible for her enormous success.
"
        Mr. Davis said Jacqueline "displayed an originality, a perspicacity," that set her apart, that she wrote credible verse, painted and became "an exceptionally gifted equestrienne.
"It was this watertight, interior suffisance, coupled with a need for attention, and corresponding love of being at center stage, which puzzled her relatives so and which in time would alternately charm and perplex the world," Mr. Davis wrote.
"
        John Vernou Bouvier Jr., her grandfather, wrote a history of the Bouvier family called "Our Forebears.
Stephen Birmingham, who wrote the biography "Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy Onassis" (Grosset & Dunlap), called the grandfather's book "a work of massive self-deception.
"
        Just as Jacqueline picked Miss Porter's, she also picked Vassar College, which she entered in 1947, not long after she was named "Debutante of the Year" by Igor Cassini, who wrote for the Hearst newspapers under the byline Cholly Knickerbocker.
The late Charlotte Curtis, who became society editor of The New York Times and who was a student at Vassar with Miss Bouvier, once wrote that Miss Bouvier was not particularly thrilled with being in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and referred to her college as "that damned Vassar," even though the invitations continued to flow in from young men at Harvard, Yale, Princeton and other leading universities.
She later wrote a long letter to her father, forgiving him, but he became withdrawn in the years that followed.
In the late 1950's, Mrs. Kennedy confided to friends that she tired of listening to "all these boring politicians," Mr. Heymann wrote, but she did her duty as the wife of a Senator.
At a luncheon at the Elysee Palace, Theordore C. Sorensen wrote in "Kennedy" that President de Gaulle had turned to Mr. Kennedy and said, "Your wife knows more French history than any French woman.
For the most part, she wrote, juveniles falling into the system are poor, nonwhite and defenseless.
"Miss Chute has had the happy idea of basing her life-sized portrait entirely on contemporary evidence," wrote Harry Levin in The New York Times.
After writing a series of books of verse for children, Miss Chute wrote her first biography, "Geoffrey Chaucer of England" (1946), an informal survey of Chaucer's life that was well-enough received to encourage her to write about Shakespeare in London.
Mrs. Baldwin, a native of Urbana, Ohio, wrote poetry and articles on culinary subjects for various magazines.
In 1947, after she sang in a concert version of "Otello" with Arturo Toscanini and the NBC Symphony, Olin Downes wrote in The New York Times that the timbre and quality of her voice "most touchingly communicated Desdemona's gentleness and purity of soul.
In 1985, Random House published "Darlinghissima: Letters to a Friend," by Janet Flanner, who, under the pseudonym Genet, wrote the "Letter From Paris" column in The New Yorker.
In 1985, Random House published "Darlinghissima: Letters to a Friend," by Janet Flanner, who, under the pseudonym Genet, wrote the "Letter From Paris" column in The New Yorker.
She was also the author or co-author of several other books and wrote numerous articles for journals in the human resource management field.
" Recreating Lost Worlds
        In an interview late in her life, Miss Haslip, who also wrote well-received biographies of men, said that in a good work of historical biography, "a whole vanished world is brought back to life.
She also wrote novels.
She also wrote the plays "Salt of the Earth," "Build Me a Bridge" and "Ducks in a Row," and a novel, "All Our Secrets.
Dr. Natchez was an authority on children's reading disabilities and she wrote several professional texts on the subject.
She also wrote extensively for such magazines as Cosmopolitan and Vogue.
She also wrote for television and adapted several short plays from the repertory of the Grand Guignol Theater of Paris for presentation in the United States.
Mrs. Modell, who sometimes wrote under the pseudonym Evelyn Piper, created dozens of stories and novels, some of which were made into movies.

        Flora Tobin Bryant, a wedding and party planner who also wrote about both subjects, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Bridgeport.
Mrs. Bryant wrote a novel, "No Gloves for the Groom," under the pseudonym Peregrine Pace.
With her husband she also wrote, "It's Your Wedding," a guide to planning weddings.
      
It was unlike most of the novels coming out of Southern California, wrote Beatrice Sherman in The New York Times Book Review on Dec. 13, 1942.
"She has great personal force," wrote Brooks Atkinson in The New York Times.
For a time, she worked as a saleswoman at Bloomingdale's, wrote radio scripts for "Gangbusters" and sang in church choirs.
She and her husband wrote "When a Doctor Hates a Patient and Other Chapters in a Young Physician's Life" (1986).
In 1973, in a review of "A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich" in The New York Times, the playwright Ed Bullins wrote: "There are too few books that convince us that reading is one of the supreme gifts of being human.
" 'Wedding Band'
        One of her plays was "Wedding Band," an interracial love story set in Charleston, S.C., at the time of World War I. Ms. Childress wrote the play in 1965 but was unable to find a New York producer until the New York Shakespeare Festival presented it in 1972.
In a review of a 1979 production of the play, Richard Eder wrote in The Times that the ideas in "Wedding Band" were "like wildflowers growing in their own ground; not, as in works of less art, like cut flowers sorted and offered by the dozen at a florist shop.
" With Mr. Woodard, she wrote musicals including "Young Martin Luther King," "Sea Island Song," "Gullah" and "Moms (A Praise Play for a Black Comedienne)," about Jackie (Moms) Mabley.
In "Spunk," Mr. Wolfe's 1990 adaptation of stories by Zora Neale Hurston, she demonstrated "exceptional range in playing a trio of women who are in turn worn to the bone, full of sass and aglow with innocence," wrote Frank Rich in The New York Times.
Susan Kirkpatrick, a professor of Spanish at the University of California at San Diego, wrote, in the preface to her translation of Miss Chacel's novel "The Maravillas District," which was published in 1992 by the University of Nebraska Press: "Chacel's writing is dense and labyrinthine, but at the same time it is open-ended and dynamic, shaping a narrative design that ends with a query instead of a conclusion.
She studied art in Madrid and spent six years in Rome, where she wrote her first novel, "Season of Departure and Return," which was published in Spain in 1930.
From 1959 to 1961, Miss Chacel was in New York City on a Guggenheim Fellowship and wrote a book of literary and philosophical essays, "Saturnalia," which was published in 1972.
Over the years, she wrote more than a dozen books, including novels and volumes of poetry and of essays.
Mrs. Bahlke, who wrote under her maiden name, Valerie Worth, had many interests, from astronomy to gardening to meditation, which became the subject matter she wove into her poetry.
The poet and teacher Myra Cohn Livingston wrote of Ms. Worth's work in The New York Times Book Review in 1988, "The treasures Ms. Worth offers do not lie in some distant, golden land but in the everyday world.
" For example, of a safety pin, Ms. Worth wrote:
        Closed, it sleeps
        On its side
        Quietly,
        The silver
        Image
        Of some
        Small fish;
        Opened, it snaps
        Its tail out
        Like a thin
        Shrimp, and looks
        At the sharp
        Point with a
        Surprised eye.
She also wrote fiction for adults and young people.
Dr. Cameron also wrote one of the first geology textbooks relating the field to society at large, "The Earth in Human Affairs," in 1945.
When Miss Haas made her New York stage debut in 1941 in Erwin Piscator's production of the Chinese fantasy "The Circle of Chalk," Brooks Atkinson, the drama critic of The Times, wrote that she was "an exquisitely beautiful actress, with the limpid grace of a Chinese poem or print.
Last year, on the occasion of a retrospective of Ms. Dehner's work that toured the United States, Holland Cotter wrote in The New York Times that her "initial pieces owe something to Smith's rangy, attenuated style, but have a Surrealist lyricism very much their own.
Mrs. Klapthor also wrote "First Ladies" (sixth edition 1990, White House Historical Society) and was a co-author, with her father, Paul D. Brown, of "The History of Charles County, Maryland," in 1958.
" 'Patrician Aplomb'
        John Richardson, an art historian, wrote in 1989, "No one else in America does a room with such patrician aplomb, such life-enhancing charm, such a lack of gimmickry or trendiness.
As she wrote in HG magazine in 1990, "Years ago, my partner, Albert Hadley, and I were delighted when patchwork quilts, four-poster beds, painted floors, knitted throws, rag rugs and hand-woven bedsteads were first listed among the 'innovations' of our firm.
The New York Times columnist Charlotte Curtis wrote in 1985 that Parish-Hadley work "costs money, big money.
As the design editor Elaine Greene wrote later in The New York Times, "when shown in the January 1967 issue of House & Garden, the house dazzled decorators the way Christian Dior's 1947 New Look did the fashion world.
Sally Bedell Smith wrote in her 1990 book "In All His Glory: The Life of William S. Paley" that in a single bedroom Mrs. Parish and Mr. Hadley did in the 1960's in Mr. Paley's Fifth Avenue duplex, "a painter worked for five months applying 18 coats of paint -- six different shadings just for the base, plus glazing.
She wrote about architecture for magazines and edited a book, "Reweaving the Urban Fabric" (Princeton Architectural Press, 1988).
Richard Tillinghast, in The New York Times Book Review, wrote that the author "immediately merits consideration as one of our most distinguished contemporary poets.
Instead, she offered "baroque profusion, the romance of the adjective, labyrinthine syntax, a festival lexicon," the poet Alfred Corn wrote in a review.
Initially Self-Published
        In college, Ms. Clampitt succumbed to the spell of Gerard Manley Hopkins, but she wrote little poetry at the time.
" Almost four decades later, another New York Times drama critic, Frank Rich, wrote of her, "Everything this actress does is so pure and right that only poets, not theater critics, should be allowed to write about her.
" He wrote that when the Cronyns acted together, it was "a matter of hearts, minds and bodies in creative harmony.
Oleg N. Yefremov, the director of the renowned Moscow Art Theater, wrote in his review, "It takes a couple of actors from America to remind us what Stanislavsky was talking about.
" He wrote in his "Memoirs," "It was instantly apparent to me that Jessica was Blanche.
In "Brando: Songs My Mother Taught Me," the actor wrote: "I think Jessica and I were both miscast, and between us we threw the play out of balance.
" Frank Rich wrote in The New York Times, "You pass up Miss Tandy's Amanda Wingfield only at your own peril.
She also edited and wrote introductions for 1966 editions of Herman Melville's "Moby-Dick" and Oscar Wilde's "Picture of Dorian Gray" along with collections of short works by Melville and Conrad.
In 1969, she wrote a comprehensive publication on family planning, "Yes, You Can," which the city bought in bulk for general distribution when New York State rewrote its abortion law the next year.
In 1971, Ms. Lawrence wrote a consumer guide, "Birth Control: All the Methods That Work and the Ones That Don't," which was sold to agencies nationwide.
She was an avid dog lover: from 1947 to 1974, she ran Honey Hollow Kennels in Bucks County, Pa. She became one of the best-known breeders and handlers of champion Great Danes in American dog-show history, and also wrote several books on dog breeding.
"Mary G. Roebling didn't wait for women's lib," Forbes magazine once wrote, "she was ahead of it, way ahead.
John Martin wrote in The New York Times that "if ever a young dancer was entitled to a company of her own and the freedom to do what she chooses with it, she is it.
She wrote two novels -- "To Meet Miss Long" (1943) and "Open House" (1946) -- and four children's books, and edited 11 mystery anthologies.
Together they wrote two books, one on abortion counseling and one on prostitution.
"
        As Barbara Heilman wrote in Sports Illustrated, "She can command a look of mingled graciousness and hauteur that suggests a duchess, but in a crowd that is one part Skeeter and 5,000 parts people, young men and babies will come to her in 30 seconds.
"My father pushed me to become competitive," she wrote in a 1978 autobiography, "Wilma.
"After the playing of 'The Star-Spangled Banner,' " she wrote in her autobiography, "I came away from the victory stand and I was mobbed.
Beginning in 1957 with "Calico Captive," Mrs. Speare wrote a string of novels that soon became familiar to thousands of American schoolchildren.
"I have chosen to write historical novels, chiefly, I think, because I enjoy sharing with young people my own ever-fresh astonishment at finding that men and women and boys and girls who lived through the great events of the past were exactly like ourselves, and that they faced every day the same choices, large and small, which daily confront us," she wrote in the New York Times Book Review in 1961.
She wrote a number of magazine articles and two one-act plays before winning her first award in 1957 with the publication of "Calico Captive," the story of a young woman in 1794 who was carried away to Canada after an Indian raid.
"Neither the 14th Amendment nor the Bill of Rights is for adults only," Justice Abe Fortas wrote for the majority.
A journalist whose career began as the country's production was shifting into new technologies and goods after World War II, she wrote about consumers' needs as well as manufacturers' responsibilities.
A column she wrote, "Speaker for the House," appeared in Good Housekeeping magazine from 1955 to 1982.
"
        Everyone who wrote about the exhibition discussed the designer in the present tense.
Bernadine Morris wrote in The New York Times: "A nonagenarian, she is one of the great female designers who dominated haute couture in Paris until after World War II, when the men took over.
In his review in The New York Times, Lewis Nichols wrote that she brought "a shy helplessness, a desire to be liked" to a role that was based on Williams's sister.
Reviewing "Hello, Out There," Brooks Atkinson wrote in The Times that together they gave "a lyrical performance of great enchantment.
In 1991, she wrote an autobiography, "In The Absence of Angels" (G. P. Putnam's Sons), with Laura Palmer, describing her frustration with the dearth of information on children suffering from AIDS.
In 1991, she wrote an autobiography, "In the Absence of Angels" (G. P. Putnam's Sons), with Laura Palmer, describing her frustration with the dearth of information on children suffering from AIDS.
In an article in The New York Times in 1964, Angela Taylor, a fashion writer, wrote that Mrs. Julianelli "ignored the rule that bare shoes come out only in spring and summer," designing several sandals for the fall, including "one that is virtually nothing but toe.
Praising the work in The New Republic, the author Alfred Kazin wrote, "The scholarship is remarkably full, meticulous and far-reaching.
