
       Elizabeth Gilmore Holt, an art historian who wrote widely on the social context of art, died Monday at her home in Washington.
Elizabeth Gilmore Holt, an art historian who wrote widely on the social context of art, died Monday at her home in Washington.
Mrs. Holt wrote ''Literary Sources of Art History'' and the two-volume ''Documentary History of Art.
'' Wrote Series on European Art
        She also wrote a series of books on ''The Emerging Role of Exhibitions and Critics'' in 19th-century Europe.
'' Wrote Series on European Art
        She also wrote a series of books on ''The Emerging Role of Exhibitions and Critics'' in 19th-century Europe.
After retiring in 1981, she wrote on a freelance basis for Town & Country magazine and Travel & Leisure magazine.
Her compatriot, the novelist Robertson Davies, wrote in The New York Times in 1964 that Mrs. Laurence told her stories ''in a good, firm vocabulary,'' whose ''rhythms are those of Canada before the turn of this century.
'Reservoir of Warm Feeling'
        In reviewing the 1975 retrospective, Hilton Kramer, then the art critic of The New York Times, wrote that Miss Bacon ''brings a large reservoir of warm feeling to the most ordinary subjects - the playfulness of a cat, the peculiar gait of a man or woman in the street, an outdoor picnic or a summer camp - and if she does not always avoid a certain sentimentality, she nonetheless impresses us with her sincerity.
''She developed the routine of dramatizing fairy tales and playing all the parts herself,'' Mr. Adams wrote in 1948.
'' Wrote Book With Truffaut
        Mrs. Scott was co-author with Truffaut of ''Hitchcock,'' a book based on a series of 1962 interviews with the British director.
She wrote the English-language subtitles for a number of French films, including Mr. Berri's ''Jean de Florette'' and ''Manon of the Spring.
In 1968, she wrote a novel, ''The Black Ship,'' with her late husband, Paul.
''
        Mrs. Sheean, whose nickname was Dinah, wrote several books, including ''The Battle of Waterloo Road'' (1941), illustrated by Robert Capa's photographs, about the people in Britain during the war; ''War Letters From Britain'' (1941), edited with Roger W. Straus Jr.; ''A Cat and a King'' (1949), a novel about the theater, and ''My Aunt Maxine'' (1964), a biography of her aunt, Maxine Elliott, the American actress.
During those travels Mrs. Sheean wrote dispatches to The New York Herald Tribune, and before and during World War II she was active in committees raising money and distributing food for Spanish refugee children and victims of Nazism.
Mrs. Caine wrote four nonfiction books, ''Widow'' (1974), ''What Did I Do Wrong?
Miss Yourcenar was a cosmopolitan, versatile woman of letters who wrote in her native French.
Translated American Spirituals
        She also wrote plays, poems and prose poems and translated into French the lyrics of American spirituals as well as works by such authors as James Baldwin, the modern Greek poet Constantine Cavafy, Henry James, Thomas Mann, Yukio Mishima and Virginia Woolf.
The author Stephen Koch wrote in The Times Book Review in September 1985 that the work ''has riches for anyone interested in history, humanism or the psychology of power.
Then, as an independently wealthy young woman, she traveled widely, wrote essays, poems and fiction, and won praise as a novelist.
'' Streak of Irreverence
        Her irreverence is illustrated by the article she wrote a few years ago after being bannned from a Christian Dior fashion show for an unfavorable review of the house's previous collection.
She also wrote a monthly column for French Vogue and contributed articles on fashion and decorating to other publications such as The New York Times.
In a profile on Alfred Barr in The New Yorker in 1953, Dwight Macdonald wrote: ''The day after the wedding, Barr started out to borrow pictures for a forthcoming Corot-Daumier show, with Mrs. Barr acting as his translator and secretary.
In the introduction to her art history course at Spence, where she taught from 1943 to 1980, Mrs. Barr wrote:
        ''I spend no time defining what is art, you'll soon know.
Miss North researched and wrote on medical and historical subjects, and was the author of a children's book, ''The Amazing Adventures of Freddy Fish,'' which she illustrated.
She was director of Red Cross Clubmobiles in the Mediterranean theater and after the war she wrote a book, ''I Knew Your Soldier.
''
        ''As an American ballerina,'' Miss Kaye wrote in 1950 in Theater Arts magazine, ''I never take anything for granted.
She Lectured Extensively
        The family continued to perform around the world until 1955, and the Baroness lectured and wrote extensively on the family's hardships, faith in God and unity.
She Lectured Extensively
        The family continued to perform around the world until 1955, and the Baroness lectured and wrote extensively on the family's hardships, faith in God and unity.
She wrote articles for The Times from the Soviet Union and, after her return, a historical book, ''The Russian Artist.
''She works on a bold scale, filling whole rooms with the objects of her imagination,'' Hilton Kramer wrote in The New York Times in 1978.
In a 25-year career with The Times, Miss Curtis, as a reporter and as an editor, helped transform the coverage of fashion and society news, supervised the daily page of opinion opposite the editorial page and for the last four years wrote a weekly column of social commentary.
''Bostonians are an elegantly athletic lot,'' she wrote in a 1965 story about a society ball.
''
        Tom Wolfe, who wrote about the same party in his book ''Radical Chic and Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers,'' said of the ensuing flap: ''It wasn't anything she wrote that infuriated them.
''
        Tom Wolfe, who wrote about the same party in his book ''Radical Chic and Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers,'' said of the ensuing flap: ''It wasn't anything she wrote that infuriated them.
Describing his eldest son, Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, she wrote about the heir to a political dynasty:
        ''Down the swaying train he went, putting out his hand in 19 of the other 20 cars saying, 'I'm Joe Kennedy,' while outside in the early afternoon sun, the old men of Linden, N.J., stood silently in their undershirts and the women held handkerchiefs to their faces.
She also contributed writings to several other books, wrote articles for magazines and was a radio commentator in New York and Ohio.
She wrote articles and revue sketches, a play, ''Abracadabra,' as well as a tongue-in-cheek autobiography, ''The World Is Square: My Own Unaided Work.
Acted on Broadway
        On television she was seen in the ''Matlock,'' ''Mike Hammer'' and ''Murder, She Wrote'' series.
Dr. Wingate wrote several books on textiles.
'' At the time, Donal Henahan wrote in The New York Times of Ms. Auerbach's ''tightly coordinated'' staging and congratulated her for ''shrewdly resisting temptations to let low comedy take over.
In her autobiography, ''The Secrets of Grown-Ups,'' published in 1979 by McGraw Hill, Miss Caspary wrote, ''This has been the century of the woman, and I know myself to have been a part of the revolution.
After she left school at 18, she wrote advertising copy for a mail-order concern.
''I gave that up when I realized that one wrote the same thing over and over again whether it was for cold cream or plumbing fixtures,'' she once said.
In 1962, Mrs. Fishman wrote ''The Fifth Heaven,'' a novel based on her childhood.
Mrs. Monhoff, who wrote under her maiden name, was best known for her essays and poetry about life in northern California, where she moved in 1920.
''
        At the time of her death, she was at work on a volume of letters by her older sister, the journalist Janet Flanner, who wrote The New Yorker magazine's ''Letter From Paris'' under the pen name Genet.
She wrote for many scientific journals.
Mrs. Cotten, who was born in Chapel Hill, N.C., wrote the classic song ''Freight Train'' when she was 11, but did not begin performing until she was 60 and already a grandmother.
Most recently, she wrote ''The Beauty of Lace'' (1984) and ''Witness to the 20th Century: An Autobiography'' (1985).
'To Be Good at Something'
        ''I always wanted to be good at something, to be somebody,'' she once wrote in a sketch of herself for The New Yorker.
Of her performance, Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times, ''As Mrs. Watts, Geraldine Page has never been in better form or in more control of that complex, delicate mechanism that makes her one of our finest actresses.
Miss Chiba wrote a column titled, ''Living With Cancer,'' which was published every Friday beginning in 1983 in The Yomiuri Shimbun, the largest daily newspaper in Japan.
From New York, she wrote about the differences between Japanese and American views on cancer.
She also wrote 13 books, including, ''A New Woman,'' and ''Living With Cancer in New York.
Ms. Reavey, who lived in Woodstock, N.Y., wrote a number of plays and librettos, including ''Poised for Violence,'' ''Telephone Pole,'' ''Mercy Me'' and ''Who Stole the American Crown Jewels?
She was a former director of publications for the Family Service Association of America and wrote three books, ''Social Casework in Practice; Six Case Studies,'' ''Women in Marital Conflict'' and ''Casework, a Psychosocial Therapy.
She wrote 10 books, including ''The Land and People of Central America'' (1965), ''Brazil Today: A Case History of Economic Development'' (1972) and ''Kingdom of the Sun'' (1975).
She wrote numerous articles and books about the legal and psychiatric problems of dealing with children and families.
''Here is a mistress of ballet technique and style who never dances ballet, of Spanish dance who never does Spanish dances,'' John Martin, a dance critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1946.
In ''Memoirs of a Star,'' published in 1970, Miss Negri wrote that she was born in Lipno, Poland, on New Year's Eve, 1899.
Her first big headlined Hollywood affair was with Charlie Chaplin, who in 1964 wrote in his autobiography that the relationship was essentially one of the pursued (Chaplin) and the pursuer (Negri).
Still less fortunately, what he wrote was largely untrue.
On their second meeting, she wrote in her memoirs, she found him so passionately overpowering that on that very night they became lovers and remained so for nearly a year, until his death in 1926.
Valentino, called by his adoring public ''The Great Lover,'' was indeed the great lover, she wrote, capable of making such romantic gestures as sprinkling rose petals on the bed before they retired.
They were divorced in 1931, after Miss Negri had lost the bulk of her fortune through, she later wrote, her husband's mismanagement of her affairs during the stock-market crisis.
In 1937 she joined the staff of the Art Institute of Chicago, where she conducted research and wrote about art.
She wrote a weekly column for The Chicago Sun in the 1940's and for The Denver Post in the 1960's.
'' In The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson wrote of Miss Lonergan's performance, ''As the brat of the family, Lenore Lonergan, of a famous theatrical tribe, acts with a stout sort of humor that suits her groaning little figure.
Mrs. Burgess wrote a mystery novel, ''Death Will Find Me,'' published in 1949.
She wrote many stories for and about adolescent boys for Collier's, The Saturday Evening Post and other magazines during the 1930's, and her first book, ''Blocking Back,'' was published in 1938.
She wrote many magazine articles and was the author of ''Modern Nursing,'' a 1963 career book, and co-author of a 1937 volume, ''More House For Your Money.
''If I'd had my druthers,'' she later wrote, ''I would have preferred getting my Oscar for 'The Maltese Falcon.
It was inadmissible as evidence, she wrote later, because her former husband had removed pages involving himself.
She rose quickly to assistant editor and wrote satirical pieces about society that were later collected in a book, ''Stuffed Shirts.
Miss Johnson, who held master's degrees in education from the University of Chicago and Columbia University, was also a co-author of several children's books, including the Child Story Readers and the Treasury of Literature Readers, and wrote more than 50 elementary school workbooks that offered exercises in reading, arithmetic and geography.
She also wrote numerous articles in education journals and was an active public speaker.
''Miss du Pre is a cellist in the modern vein,'' Harold C. Schonberg wrote in The New York Times after a 1967 concert.
''She was immediately acclaimed for her instinctive feeling for style and breadth of understanding as well as technical proficiency,'' Noel Goodwin wrote in the New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians.
Reviewing a 1980 concert, John Rockwell wrote in The New York Times: ''The consistently high quality of these particular benefits can be traced to the close professional and social circle in which Miss du Pre and her husband move.
Miss Suesse, who also wrote ''Whistling in the Dark,'' ''My Silent Love'' and ''Blue Moonlight,'' achieved widespread fame in 1932 when the orchestra leader Paul Whiteman commissioned her to write a jazz concerto for piano and orchestra.
In 1936 she wrote the score for Billy Rose's ''Casa Manana'' revue, and later collaborated with him on his ''Aquacade'' revue at the 1939 New York World's Fair.
Fifty years ago, while she was a secretary at the University of Chicago and did not have a college degree, she wrote a slender pamphlet describing the correct style for writing college dissertations.
While at the museum she wrote, with Catherine M. Pessino, three books for children, ''Collecting Cocoons,'' ''Collecting Small Fossils'' and ''Collecting for the City Naturalist.
