Adrian Oktenberg wrote in The Women's Review of Books that the illness had made Ms. Dent ''a prophet of extremity, crying in the wilderness of a new world.
''
        ''In searing poem after searing poem,'' Ms. Oktenberg wrote, ''without lessening the tension of giving any kind of relief, Dent describes exactly what it is to be in her skin, in her head.
''Writing poems from within the siege state of the body,'' Stanley Kunitz wrote in 2000 as the country's poet laureate, ''Tory's language uncoils with such vitality, it would seem that speaking were an act of the immune system, a primary means of survival.
She wrote a poetry book in prison and emerged in a somber black outfit, quoting Bible verses.
Therefore, she continued, ''nobody is going to turn down a play on Broadway because a woman wrote it or because it's about women.
Included in ''Shiksa Goddess'' was an essay Ms. Wasserstein wrote for The New Yorker, as poignant as it was hilarious, in which she discussed the medical complications of her late-life pregnancy and her newborn daughter's early struggles.
''Although I remain a religious skeptic,'' she wrote, referring to the disorienting days following Lucy Jane's premature birth, ''I had a kind of blind faith.
Ms. Wasserstein also wrote a children's book, ''Pamela's First Musical,'' which she adapted for the stage in collaboration with Cy Coleman and David Zippel, and wrote the libretto for ''The Festival of Regrets,'' one of three one-act operas presented under the collective title ''Central Park'' at the New York City Opera.
Ms. Wasserstein also wrote a children's book, ''Pamela's First Musical,'' which she adapted for the stage in collaboration with Cy Coleman and David Zippel, and wrote the libretto for ''The Festival of Regrets,'' one of three one-act operas presented under the collective title ''Central Park'' at the New York City Opera.
In an essay about the program for The New York Times, she wrote: ''As far as I'm concerned, every New Yorker is born with the inalienable right to ride the D train, shout 'Hey, lady!
''
        Playing opposite Karl Liebl as Tristan, Howard Taubman wrote, ''she dominated the stage and the performance.
''
        When she appeared at the end of the first act to take a solo bow, he wrote, the audience ''roared like the Stadium fans when Conerly throws a winning touchdown pass.
Nilsson did not sound young,'' Will Crutchfield wrote in The Times.
When she returned, Donal Henahan wrote in The Times, ''The famous shining trumpet of a voice is still far from sounding like a cornet.
She wrote in Bing's name.
When her father went to Sing Sing for arson (he was exonerated later), 9-year-old Shirley retreated into a fantasy world that, Ms. Winters wrote, ''has been a powerful tool in my acting'' but ''used to play hell with my real life.
''To this day I feel that getting 'A Double Life' was a miracle,'' she wrote in her autobiography.
She wrote ''Astral Magic in Babylonia'' (1995), which traced the roots of Greek medicine and science to Babylonian magical practices using plants and other ingredients and seeking to harness the powers of celestial bodies.
She wrote a memoir of the same name, published by Simon & Schuster in 1997.
Correction:  February 16, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Edna Lewis, the chef and author who wrote about refined Southern cuisine, misstated the order of her cookbooks.
Ms. Bedford, who was German by birth and whose first language was German, wrote in English.
''Written with an air of authority which compels acceptance, a novel has just appeared by a new writer of remarkable accomplishment,'' he wrote at the time.
In later years, she wrote two books, including ''Balletmaster: A Dancer's View of George Balanchine'' (1986), and wrote a column for The Daily Telegraph.
In later years, she wrote two books, including ''Balletmaster: A Dancer's View of George Balanchine'' (1986), and wrote a column for The Daily Telegraph.
'' She went on to dance a featured role in the Broadway musical ''Merlin'' in 1982, appeared in ''The Turning Point'' and several other films, and performed on television in shows including ''Murder She Wrote,'' ''Live From Lincoln Center'' and Edward Villella's Emmy-winning ''Harlequin.
Beginning in 1970, Ms. Hoban wrote, designed, illustrated and published 110 or more titles, a score of them in print, which won dozens of awards.
''My books are about everyday things that are so ordinary that one tends to overlook them,'' Ms. Hoban once wrote about her work.
For decades a familiar presence on television and the lecture circuit, Ms. Friedan, with her short stature and deeply hooded eyes, looked for much of her adult life like a ''combination of Hermione Gingold and Bette Davis,'' as Judy Klemesrud wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 1970.
When she wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' she was a suburban housewife and mother who supplemented her husband's income by writing freelance articles for women's magazines.
Though Ms. Friedan was not generally considered a lyrical stylist, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' read today, is as mesmerizing as it was more than four decades ago:
        ''Gradually, without seeing it clearly for quite a while, I came to realize that something is very wrong with the way American women are trying to live their lives today,'' Ms. Friedan wrote in the opening line of the preface.
''
        Correction:  February 8, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday and in some copies on Sunday about Betty Friedan, the pioneering feminist who wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' misstated the residence of her sister, Amy Adams.
For decades a familiar presence on television and the lecture circuit, Ms. Friedan, with her short stature and deeply hooded eyes, looked for much of her adult life like a ''combination of Hermione Gingold and Bette Davis,'' as Judy Klemesrud wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 1970.
When she wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' she was a suburban housewife and mother who supplemented her husband's income by writing freelance articles for women's magazines.
Though Ms. Friedan was not generally considered a lyrical stylist, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' read today, is as mesmerizing as it was more than four decades ago:
        ''Gradually, without seeing it clearly for quite a while, I came to realize that something is very wrong with the way American women are trying to live their lives today,'' Ms. Friedan wrote in the opening line of the preface.
They gloried in their role as women, and wrote proudly on the census blank: ''Occupation: housewife.
Correction:  February 8, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday and in some copies on Sunday about Betty Friedan, the pioneering feminist who wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' misstated the residence of her sister, Amy Adams.

        Jo Foxworth, a doyenne of New York advertising, who wrote the words and commissioned the tune for the siren song intended to lure shoppers to D'Agostino supermarkets, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital.
In 1968, she went her own way as the president of Jo Foxworth Inc.
        She set up business in the loft of a D'Agostino market and wrote campaigns like ''If there's no D'Agostino near you -- Move!
She also wrote ''Wising Up: The Mistakes Women Make in Business and How to Avoid Them'' (1980).
She wrote a dozen novels, including ''Parable of the Sower'' (Four Walls Eight Windows, 1993); ''Parable of the Talents'' (Seven Stories Press, 1998); and, most recently, ''Fledgling'' (Seven Stories), which appeared last year.
I wrote myself in, since I'm me and I'm here and I'm writing.
But for a while, as the British critic Andrew Porter wrote in The New Yorker, she was ''the single best thing about opera in America.
Its purpose, the authors wrote, was simply ''to strip marriage of its antiquated ideals and romantic tinsel and find ways to make it truly contemporary.
''The time to tell your wife she's shooting the budget to pieces with the amount she spends on clothes is not when she comes rushing home full of pleasure with a new purchase,'' the authors wrote.
The O'Neills also wrote ''Shifting Gears'' (M. Evans, 1974), about career change.
From 1942 to 1944, she wrote 39 songs for Wills's western movies; was a movie actress herself; and, in 1944, wrote her first Top-10 country hit, ''You're From Texas,'' which Wills performed.
From 1942 to 1944, she wrote 39 songs for Wills's western movies; was a movie actress herself; and, in 1944, wrote her first Top-10 country hit, ''You're From Texas,'' which Wills performed.
As a historian, Mrs. Muscatine wrote ''Old San Francisco: the Biography of a City From Early Days to the Earthquake'' and was a consultant for the PBS series ''California Dream,'' a history of the state first broadcast in 1981.
''
        In 1968, she wrote in The American Journal of Archaeology, ''International legal action is needed because technical progress and the 'archaeology explosion' will destroy a major part of the ancient record in a frightening tempo.
She wrote monographs on the Neolithic pottery uncovered at Tarsus and the University of Pennsylvania's excavation of a Hittite cemetery at Gordion.
The New York Times critic Harold C. Schonberg wrote that her singing needed ''a little more personality.

        Anna Marly, who wrote the melody to the song that became the anthem of the French Resistance in World War II and whose whistling and singing on the radio were an inspiration to the anti-Nazi underground, died on Feb. 15 in her home in Palmer, Alaska.
Miss Marly, who in her later years used her married name, Smiernow, wrote the melody to ''Chant des Partisans,'' or ''Song of the Partisans,'' which became an unofficial French anthem in the last years of World War II.
Miss Marly wrote more than 300 songs, most with lyrics, one of which, ''Une Chanson à Trois Temps,'' was recorded by Édith Piaf.
Bernard later wrote the lyrics for the song that came to be known as ''The Partisan'' in English.
Correction:  March 16, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Anna Marly, who wrote the melody for the anthem of the French Resistance in World War II, misstated the Russian word for partisan, which she used as a rhythmic accent.
''
        She also wrote her autobiography, ''A Hell of a Life,'' with Jane Scovell in 1995, in which she looked back on a life in the theater with a few regrets but a lot of satisfaction.
''
        But what she loved most, she wrote, was ''the challenge and the opportunity to leave reality behind and become someone else.
The reason was depression, she later wrote in a reminiscence.
She had suffered bouts of it before, she wrote, and now the breakup of a romantic relationship had set off another episode, draining her of her desire to paint.
''People who know well such animated city streets will know how it is,'' Ms. Jacobs wrote.
''When an entire field is headed in the wrong direction, when the routine application of mainstream thinking has produced disastrous results as I think was true of planning and urban policy in the 1950's, then it probably took someone from outside to point out the obvious,'' Alan Ehrenhalt wrote in 2001 in Planning, the magazine of the American Planning Association.
In 2003, Herbert Muschamp, the Times's chief architecture critic, wrote that Ms. Jacobs's book was ''one of 20th-century architecture's most traumatic events,'' in part because Ms. Jacobs was dismissive about the importance of design.
''There were only two things in the entire house that were familiar to him,'' she wrote; ''the fire (although he didn't understand the chimney) and the sword,'' a Civil War souvenir.
She wrote Sunday features for The New York Herald Tribune and articles for Q Magazine on manhole covers, among other things.
''There is a quality even meaner than outright ugliness or disorder,'' she wrote in ''Death and Life,'' ''and this meaner quality is the dishonest mask of pretended order, achieved by ignoring or suppressing the real order that is struggling to exist and to be served.
''
        ''Like a construction gang bulldozing a site clean of all habitations, good or bad,'' Mr. Mumford wrote, ''she bulldozes out of existence every desirable innovation in urban planning during the last century, and every competing idea, without even a pretense of critical evaluation.
''Sometimes big, ugly high-rise towers work just fine,'' he wrote.
''Less than 24 hours after I testified before a grand jury investigating those murders (and the church burning that preceded them), the Klan initiated a campaign to 'ruin' me, a WASP lady with eight great-grandparents buried in Neshoba County,'' she wrote in her book, completed with the assistance of Lynn Eden, now the associate director for research at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University.
''
        In his foreword to her book, Turner Catledge, a former executive editor of The New York Times, who grew up in Philadelphia, wrote of her: ''What a witness!
She wrote several notation workbooks and notated a variety of choreography, including dances from the television show ''American Bandstand.
Ms. Maguire also wrote a novel, ''Thinner, Blonder, Whiter,'' published by Carroll & Graf in 2002.
      
''He became a borderline case, and I didn't like what I found on either side of the border,'' she wrote in her 1992 autobiography, ''Curriculum Vitae.
''There was no blinding revelation in my case,'' she wrote in her autobiography.
Spark's life that Graham Greene stepped in, and for a while she was sustained by the money he sent, along with bottles of red wine, which, she wrote, ''took the edge off cold charity.
In 1968, Ms. Allen also wrote an English adaptation of ''Forty Carats,'' originally a French play about a 40-year-old divorcée who begins a relationship with a 22-year-old man.
Spark's novel, Ms. Allen dramatized a novel by Graham Greene -- for the 1972 movie ''Travels With My Aunt''-- and a nonfiction book by Robert Daley -- for ''Prince of the City,'' a dark 1981 drama about police corruption that she wrote with Sidney Lumet.
In 1948, she published a novel, ''Spring Riot,'' and during the 1950's wrote scripts for live drama television shows like the Philco Television Playhouse.
Spark's novel and, at the encouragement of Lillian Hellman, wrote her stage version.
The movie was based on a novel that Ms. Allen wrote for the purpose of adapting it.
She also wrote songs about social conditions, including, in the 1940's, the harshness of French colonial rule and the epidemics that ravaged Algeria.
She wrote about rough lives and about the temporary diversions of sex and alcohol.
She wrote two books, ''Consumer Choice in the American Economy'' (1967) and ''The Economics of the Ghetto'' (1970).
''
        ''On Stage, Off Stage: Memories of a Lifetime in the Yiddish Theater,'' which she and her husband wrote with Irving Genn, was published in 1992 by the Judaica Division, Harvard College Library.
She also wrote ''The Jews of Germany: A Historical Portrait'' (Yale University, 1992), which chronicled Jewish life in Germany from the fall of Jerusalem in A.D. 70 to the rise of Hitler in 1933.
''
        ''What emerges is the portrait of a culture very much alive and aware of its own rich heritage,'' he wrote.
''As an abandoned hussy, brazenly made up and loosely clad, Joan Diener looks like a fine case of grand arson,'' Brook Atkinson wrote in The New York Times.
''Joan Diener's performance is a puzzle,'' John S. Wilson wrote in The Times in his review of the original cast recording.
''We weren't pushing 'Black Is Beautiful,' we just showed it,'' she once wrote.
''I am a short, squat toad of a woman,'' Ms. Moore wrote in ''Fat Girl,'' which was nominated for a National Book Critics Circle award last year when it was published.
''
        ''I hate myself,'' she wrote.
Though Ms. Moore wrote in tones of self-loathing about being fat, and was at times overweight, she was not morbidly obese.
For a retrospective at the Museum of Architecture and Design at the Chicago Atheneum in 1997, she wrote, ''I continue on my own way, conscious of the responsibility I take upon myself whenever I add a new presence to an already overcrowded physical world.
Ms. Lewis wrote two letters to Merck seeking to negotiate a settlement in behalf of her mother's friend, Ms. Sanford said, but both offers were rejected.
A newspaperwoman by training, Ms. Jacobs wrote many highly regarded books on dollhouses, among them ''A History of Dolls' Houses: Four Centuries of the Domestic World in Miniature'' (Scribner, 1953); ''Dolls' Houses in America: Historic Preservation in Miniature'' (Scribner, 1974); and, most recently, ''The Small World of Antique Dolls' Houses'' (Lake Isle Press, 2005).
While Flora was still a student at George Washington University, she wrote film reviews for the old Washington Times-Herald.
Ms. Jacobs, who lectured throughout the world on dollhouse history, also wrote several children's books inspired by her work, among them ''The Doll House Mystery'' (Coward-McCann, 1958) and ''The Toy Shop Mystery'' (Coward-McCann, 1960).
Also an excellent bridge teacher, Mrs. Truscott wrote two best-selling bridge books, ''Winning Declarer Play'' (1969) and ''Bid Better, Play Better'' (1970).
With her husband she wrote ''Teach Yourself Basic Bidding'' (1976-77) and ''The New York Times Bridge Book'' (2002).
''He wrote me and even called me, but I told him I wasn't coming back,'' she said.
Her latest incarnation was as leather-clad, bright-orange-haired punk rocker and occasional Elvis impersonator, belting out songs like ''Love Songs for People Who Hate Each Other,'' which she wrote herself.
Dr. Newlin, among the last surviving pupils of Schoenberg, wrote the entry on him for the Encyclopaedia Britannica.
At 11, she wrote a symphonic piece, ''Cradle Song.
Together they wrote ''Anancy and Beeny Bud'' (1958), ''Jamaica Way'' (1959) and ''Carib Gold'' (1960).
The best months were when her mother had a job in a restaurant, she wrote, ''because sometimes she could bring home food.
'' She also appeared on ''Love Boat,'' ''Murder, She Wrote'' and other television shows.
Writing about Miss Allyson's autobiography in The New York Times, Janet Maslin wrote: ''Miss Allyson presents herself as the same sunny, tomboyish figure she played on screen.

        Zelda Foster, a social worker and early leader of the hospice movement who wrote a seminal article in 1965 attacking what she called the ''conspiracy of silence'' facing dying patients in hospitals, died on July 4 at her home in Park Slope, Brooklyn.
In her 1965 article, in the Journal of the National Association of Social Workers, she wrote of her experiences as supervisor of social work at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Brooklyn and of the hospital's efforts to reform its treatment of the terminally ill. For the first time, she wrote, ''the majority of patients were considered capable of understanding the nature of their diseases.
In her 1965 article, in the Journal of the National Association of Social Workers, she wrote of her experiences as supervisor of social work at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Brooklyn and of the hospital's efforts to reform its treatment of the terminally ill. For the first time, she wrote, ''the majority of patients were considered capable of understanding the nature of their diseases.
''
        ''The good patient was no longer one who silently submitted to his fate,'' Mrs. Foster wrote.
She also wrote ''Fantasy-Variations on a Jewish Liturgical Theme,'' for electric guitar (1994); a handful of orchestral scores, including ''The Beautiful Days of Aranjuez,'' for harp and strings (1981); and three operas: ''The Courtship of Camilla'' (1979), ''Princess Maleen'' (1989) and ''Jocasta'' (1997), which offers a feminist view of the Oedipus story.
Will Crutchfield, reviewing some live recordings of Miss Schwarzkopf in recital, wrote in The New York Times in 1990: ''It was always clear that she had a superior voice (a smooth, glamorous lyric soprano) and superior technical command.
A critic for Musical America wrote that Miss Schwarzkopf's singing at Town Hall had ''displayed the exquisite finish, technical mastery and interpretive felicity that had marked her debut recital here last season.
'' Miss Schwarzkopf, she wrote, was ''a poised and vibrant new personality with a vocal radiance and a personal grace.
From Hattiesburg, the waves of the civil rights movement ''swept quietly through the church world into politics,'' the author Taylor Branch wrote in ''Pillar of Fire: America in the King Years, 1963-65'' (Simon & Schuster, 1998).
Ms. Kaul was executive chef of Daily Soup from 1996 to 2003, and, with four of her colleagues, she wrote ''The Daily Soup Cookbook'' (Hyperion, 1999), a compilation of about 200 recipes that brought soups both plain and fancy into the kitchens of ordinary cooks.
Ms. Raven wrote or edited nine books, including the important anthology ''Feminist Art Criticism'' (1988), with Cassandra L. Langer and Joanna Frueh as co-editors; a follow-up volume appeared in 1994, with Ms. Raven's essay, ''The Archaic Smile,'' a memoir of the women's art movement.
She also wrote monographs on the artists June Wayne, Betye Saar, Michele Oka Doner, and Ms. Grossman.
''
        On the same theme and in his own tribute, Kirstein wrote: ''Melissa has been the nearest thing to a 'star' in our starless company.
In ''Melissa Hayden,'' she wrote: ''To dance Balanchine's ballets successfully, we must subordinate our personalities and blend with all the other dancers onstage.
''There is a slightly loony streak running through Gay Delanghe's choreography that gives it special distinction,'' Don McDonagh wrote in The New York Times in 1973.
Deeply influenced by the psychiatrist Carl Jung, whom she also befriended, she wrote ''Lady of the Beasts: Ancient Images of the Goddess and Her Sacred Animals,'' published by Harper & Row in 1988.
Of Scottish descent, Ms. Ogilvie also wrote a series of novels based on her travels in the highlands of Scotland.
She also wrote 14 books for young adults, focusing on two new generations of the Bennett family.
'' Mr. Kissinger later wrote in his memoirs that the quotation harmed his relations with Nixon.
His reply, she wrote in The New York Times, was that she was not obliged to wear one, because it was a garment for proper Islamic women.
The ''sons of Allah breed like rats,'' she wrote, condemning the growing immigration of Muslims in Europe, including her homeland.
In her book 1987 book, ''The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys,'' Doris Kearns Goodwin wrote that Rose Kennedy was bothered by Patricia's lack of ambition.
In her introduction, she wrote ''This is not a sad book.
In her 1987 book, ''The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys,'' Doris Kearns Goodwin wrote that Rose Kennedy was bothered by Patricia's lack of ambition.
''Although she had a good mind, a fine physique and a beautiful face which could easily have led her to excel in school,'' Ms. Goodwin wrote, ''in sports or in appearance, Rose contended 'she would never make the effort to achieve distinction' in any of these areas.
''
        But Mrs. Lawford's son, Christopher Lawford, wrote in his best-selling memoir, ''Symptoms of Withdrawal,'' published last year, that his mother had been resentful of her father for ''not being allowed fully to live up to her potential.
Mrs. Lawford wrote in her introduction: ''This is not a sad book.
Mrs. Levine wrote in a letter to the Bata Shoe Museum this year: ''We wanted to create a shoemaking niche.
She wrote two memoirs, ''The Secret War'' (W. H. Allen, 1980) and ''Spyglass: An Autobiography'' (Henry Holt, 1995).
''A mere wartime myth, Tokyo Rose was to become a disgrace to American justice,'' Edwin O. Reischauer, the American ambassador to Japan from 1961 to 1966 and a scholar at Harvard specializing in East Asian affairs, wrote in his introduction to ''Tokyo Rose: Orphan of the Pacific,'' by Masayo Duus.
The treason charges, Mr. Reischauer wrote, were ''egged on by a public still much under the influence of traditional racial prejudices and far from free of the anti-Japanese hatreds of the recent war.
Reviewing the novel in The New York Times Book Review, Edith H. Walton wrote:
        ''By a kind of miracle, and perhaps because she is so close to an experience not easy to recapture, Miss Daly has made an utterly enchanting book out of this very fragile little story -- one which rings true and sweet and fresh and sound.
The next year she wrote another story, fittingly titled ''Sixteen,'' that was included in the O. Henry collection of 1938, which gathered together the best short stories of the previous year.
She never finished college, but she wrote two widely used books about Western and Native American art.
She taught and lectured internationally and wrote many articles about Duncan, continuing to work until last year.
Ms. Levien danced the Duncan pieces ''in a totally different manner which is nonimitative, nontraditional and her own,'' John Martin wrote in a 1943 review in The Times.
She wrote and illustrated ''Duncan Dance, A Guide for Young People,'' published by the Princeton Book Company in 1994.
''
        In a letter published in The Washington Star, she wrote, ''As an endocrinologist in good standing, I was startled to learn that ovarian hormones are toxic to brain cells.
She also wrote about the surgical complications of operating on patients with diabetes.
''Ever since I was 12 years old I've been studying for a career in theater,'' Miss Bigley wrote in a first-person article for The World Telegram in 1952, shortly before the end of her run in ''Guys and Dolls.
''I left a pile of unanswered letters on the desk,'' she wrote.
The production ''has the most flamboyant population of any show in town,'' The New York Times critic Brooks Atkinson wrote, and Miss Bigley ''plays a few enticing tricks on one of Mr. Loesser's most rollicking songs.
''It would be hard to collect a more attractive cast,'' Mr. Atkinson wrote of that show, ''than one that includes Isabel Bigley, a belle that is still ringing beautifully.
Brian Walker, curator of a 1984 exhibition of Playboy cartoons at the Museum of Cartoon Art in Rye Brook, N.Y., wrote that ''perhaps with the exception of The New Yorker, Playboy has been the only publication to maintain excellence in the field.
Perhaps best known for writing the On Madison Avenue column for New York magazine from 1981 to 1994, Ms. Kanner also wrote for The New York Times and The Daily News.
She was the editor of the monthly magazine WomensBiz.US, and wrote 12 books.
Ms. Kanner also wrote first-person features for New York magazine, based on experiences like working as a cab driver and behind the counter at Wendy's.
In 1999, Ms. Kanner wrote ''The 100 Best TV Commercials  and Why They Worked,'' based on a survey of leading advertising professionals.
In 1996, Ms. Kanner wrote ''Lies My Parents Told Me'' (St. Martin's Press), examining loving deceptions that parents use to protect childhood innocence.
After hearing Ms. Bergner's tale, Ms. Orr wrote it up and sold it to Cosmopolitan for $800.
With her husband, Ms. Orr wrote four plays that opened on Broadway.
''One of the few regrets in my life is that I never had children of my own,'' she wrote, three years after the arrival of the first orphan, a boy named Gahungu, whose mother had dropped dead in front of him.
''My day is done,'' she wrote, ''and I wonder with a flutter of anticipation what new adventures and surprises tomorrow will bring.
''Given a choice,'' she wrote in her autobiography, ''I wanted to be where the action was.

        Betty Comden, who with her longtime collaborator Adolph Green wrote the lyrics and often the librettos for some of the most celebrated musicals of stage and screen, died yesterday in Manhattan.
''At some point when we were working on 'Bells Are Ringing,' '' she said, ''Jule Styne wrote that tune.
' And that became the official title until the point where, rewriting part of the book one day, the situation was there, and we finally wrote the words to fit 'Dee Da Dum.
They wrote ''The Barkleys of Broadway'' (1949), which marked the film reunion of Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire, and adapted ''On the Town'' (1949) for the screen, with Gene Kelly, Frank Sinatra and Jules Munshin as the freewheeling sailors navigating the streets of New York.
They contributed heavily to the success of ''The Band Wagon'' (1953), the Vincente Minnelli musical for which they wrote the witty screenplay.
Ms. Comden and Mr. Green also wrote the screenplay for the 1960 film version, which starred Ms. Holliday.
Even their less successful shows yielded musical nuggets, one example being the 1960 ''Do Re Mi,'' which had a book by Garson Kanin and music by Mr. Styne for which they wrote the lyrics.
They wrote the book for ''Applause'' (1970), adapted from the film ''All About Eve,'' with music by Charles Strouse and lyrics by Lee Adams.
In 1982 they wrote the book and lyrics -- Larry Grossman wrote the music -- for what was meant to be a kind of musical sequel to Ibsen's ''A Doll's House,'' but the result, ''A Doll's Life'' (1982), was a four-performance disaster.
In 1982 they wrote the book and lyrics -- Larry Grossman wrote the music -- for what was meant to be a kind of musical sequel to Ibsen's ''A Doll's House,'' but the result, ''A Doll's Life'' (1982), was a four-performance disaster.
In a 1990 review of her work in a joint show by nine sculptors, Vivien Raynor of The New York Times wrote, ''Just as the Invisible Man was defined by his bandages, Muriel Castanis's figures are the sum of their classical draperies.
He encouraged her to remain professionally active, so she wrote a column for Newsday, often chronicling her encounters with celebrities.
Later, she wrote a household hints column for Good Housekeeping.
He encouraged her to remain professionally active, so she wrote a column for Newsday, often chronicling her encounters with celebrities.
Later, she wrote a household hints column for Good Housekeeping.
''
        Reviewing the novel in The Book Review, Clyde Edgerton wrote: ''By showing lives lived, and not explaining ideas, Ms. Campbell does what good storytellers do -- she puts in by leaving out.
She also wrote two picture books for children, ''Sometimes My Mommy Gets Angry'' (Putnam, 2003; illustrated by E. B. Lewis); and ''Stompin' at the Savoy'' (Philomel, 2006; illustrated by Richard Yarde).
She had recently finished directing ''Waitress,'' a movie she wrote and directed, which is under consideration for inclusion in the Sundance Film Festival.
Ms. Shelly wrote and directed several other independent films, including ''Sudden Manhattan'' (1997), in which zany characters collide in Lower Manhattan, and ''I'll Take You There'' (1999), a romantic comedy about a real estate broker whose wife leaves him for his best friend.
In 1993 Janet Maslin wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Shelly was ''a spirited and captivating actress capable of perfect deadpan delivery.

        Ernestine Gilbreth Carey, who, with a younger brother, wrote ''Cheaper by the Dozen,'' the account of their growing up in a family of 12 children that led to several movies of the same name, died on Saturday in Fresno, Calif. She was 98 and lived in Reedley, Calif.
Mrs. Carey's brother Frank Bunker Gilbreth Jr. received first billing as a co-author, and the book's narrative voice is decidedly unified, never betraying who wrote what.
Nevertheless, Mrs. Carey wrote other books (as did her brother, who died in 2001), including ''Jumping Jupiter,'' ''Rings Around Us'' and ''Giddy Moment.
Given their father's penchant for order, ''nothing was considered more of a sin in our house than wasted time and motions,'' the authors wrote.
The Gilbreth brother-and-sister team also wrote ''Belles on Their Toes,'' a 1950 sequel that was turned into a movie in 1952.
She was also widely recognized for her rock criticism: she was the first pop-music critic of The New Yorker, and wrote regularly about music for Rolling Stone, The Village Voice and other publications.
In an essay in The New York Times in 1999, Ms. Willis wrote:
        ''The Lewinsky scandal has prompted an impassioned national conversation on the relationship of the political to the personal, public authority to private behavior; on sexual privacy versus 'family values'; on female sexual autonomy and victimization.
''My education was dominated by modernist thinkers and artists who taught me that the supreme imperative was courage to face the awful truth, to scorn the soft-minded optimism of religious and secular romantics as well as the corrupt optimism of governments, advertisers, and mechanistic or manipulative revolutionaries,'' Ms. Willis wrote in an essay collected in ''Beginning to See the Light: Pieces of a Decade'' (Knopf, 1981).
''
        In 1982, Mrs. Morgenthau and Robert Hecht, then a postdoctoral fellow at Brandeis, wrote an Op-Ed article for The New York Times asserting that the ''top-down'' approach to aid in Africa did not work because bureaucracies ''soak up resources.
In 1964, she wrote ''Political Parties in French-Speaking West Africa'' (Oxford University Press).
An admirer of Ibsen and Chekhov, he wrote about Japanese characters afflicted with feelings of dislocation and disintegration.
''At school, I think I slept through more than half my classes,'' she wrote in her memoir, ''Those Times, These Times.
'' When she wrote haiku, she used the pen name Minjo, which means ''sleeping woman.
''
        In 1995, Alex Ross wrote in The New York Times: ''Ms.
''I respected her intelligence, but she was not well suited to the job,'' Mr. Shultz wrote.
What had originated as a Hebrew folk song became ''one of the most joyous-sounding records of the swing era,'' George T. Simon wrote in ''The Big Bands Songbook'' (1975).
