She reviewed books for Cosmopolitan magazine, was an editor at Crown and other publishing houses and wrote for magazines in the United States and Britain.
When she wrote her autobiography in 1980, it was titled ''Bittersweet,'' a word that seemed to sum up her life.
A reason she wrote her book, she  said, was that her career was stalled: ''It become totally untenable to me that after acting for 25 years -- I've played Juliet, Cleopatra and Anne Frank -- there I was, sitting in Hollywood, just waiting for somebody to want me.
She was also close to some of her father's students, especially Marilyn Monroe, whom she wrote about in ''Bittersweet'' and in her 1992 book, ''Marilyn and Me, Sisters, Rivals and Friends.
As she wrote in her book, ''A dependable leading lady must be able to run, duck, fall, get up, fall again, crawl over a bed and under a dresser, scream, swing by a rope, deliver an uppercut, struggle and kick and still have enough breath left to say, 'If this is aristocracy, thank God I'm a country girl.
'' They wrote it with Amy Hill Hearth as an oral history from their early days in the Jim Crow South to their arrival in New York City during the Harlem Renaissance to their life in a white suburb.
In ''Having Our Say,'' Sadie Delany wrote:
        ''I'll tell you how I handled white people.
She wrote about her experiences and spent the last months of her life compiling her writings and artwork.
She wrote her first book in 1923, and her early writing met with critical success while causing scandal with its emphasis on subjects like rape, infanticide, lesbianism and abortion.
She wrote less effectively on socialism, an interest she developed from her husband's involvement in Fabian Society politics and her observation of the victims of the Depression.
Fluent in French, German and Polish, she wrote two German books used to teach German children about the Holocaust.
As a girl, she trained to become a concert pianist; as a teen-ager, she founded a theater troupe, for which she wrote songs and sketches.
''I learned,'' Ms. Kallen wrote afterward, ''to wear dark skirts.
With Mr. Tolkin, she wrote a short-lived Broadway play, ''Maybe Tuesday'' (1958).
Dr. Freund-Rosenthal persuaded the artist Marc Chagall to create the stained glass windows for a synagogue in Jerusalem, endowed Hadassah educational seminars in the United States and Israel and wrote the book 'A Tapestry of Hadassah Memories.
''
        ''But it is not all technique,'' he wrote.
In that work she wrote that by making the purposes of women's education clearer, barriers to the attainment of a good life could be removed.
As to the respective merits of training for a career and of education meant only for a homemaker, she wrote: ''To disagree with the antifeminist does not necessarily make one a feminist.
Reviewing that book in The New York Times Book Review, Adele Simmons, then president of Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., wrote: ''The impact of the women's movement on higher education becomes apparent to even the most skeptical reader.
Rather similarly, Professor Komarovsky wrote, on the New York Times Op-Ed page in 1981: ''Young women are becoming aware that the call to equal opportunities for women outside the home is an empty slogan as long as the society insists on traditional role segregation within the family.
''We have much to learn from Sweden,'' Professor Komarovsky wrote: ''Modified work patterns for both sexes, housing patterns permitting more-cooperative ties among child-rearing families, accessible child-care centers of high quality for all economic classes.
''
        Over the years, she also wrote about various aspects of sociology, including theory and methodology.
The two scientists wrote many papers together, sometimes with her name first, sometimes his.
Reviewing ''Cleansed,'' Benedict Nightingale of The Times of London wrote: ''She is not the gloating opportunist that some reviewers of 'Blasted' thought.
She also wrote ''The Therapy of Poetry'' in 1974 and contributed to ''The Quest for the Nazi Personality: A Psychological Investigation of Nazi War Criminals.
Reviewing her portrayal of Azucena in Verdi's ''Trovatore'' in 1961, Eric Salzman wrote in The New York Times, ''She showed a voice of size and quality, and she knew how to use it.
As a dancer, Indrani was her  ''alter ego,'' Ragini Devi wrote.
Miss Murdoch had a background in philosophy -- she knew and wrote about Jean-Paul Sartre, studied with Ludwig Wittgenstein and was a lecturer in philosophy at Oxford University -- and her fiction grappled with such questions as the nature of good and evil.
This quest ''for a passion beyond any center of self,'' as David Bromwich wrote in The New York Times Book Review, made her fiction unlike that of any other contemporary Western writer.
''I indulged the momentary fantasy that nothing had ever happened to her; that she was simply bicycling about, waiting for me to arrive,'' he wrote.
''Every day,'' Mr. Bayley wrote of their lives together in Miss Murdoch's last years, ''we are physically closer.
After attending Wilson College in Chambersburg, Pa., and Barnard College, she was hired by Mademoiselle, where she wrote on a wide range of subjects.
At Dell, she wrote and edited more than 65 pocket-size how-to handbooks, and in 1964, under the name Dorothea Zack Hanle, wrote the book ''The Hairdo Handbook: A Complete Guide to Hair Beauty.
At Dell, she wrote and edited more than 65 pocket-size how-to handbooks, and in 1964, under the name Dorothea Zack Hanle, wrote the book ''The Hairdo Handbook: A Complete Guide to Hair Beauty.
With Martin Herz, she wrote a children's cookbook, ''The Golden Ladle'' (1945).
She also wrote books on gardening, diet and exercise.
''She had a soul inflection in a bop state of intrigue,'' Ellington wrote about Ms. Roche in his oblique style of praise, ''and every word was understandable despite the sophisticated hip and jive connotations.
''This was an error of constitutional magnitude,'' the appellate judges wrote.
In a review of her first performance in the United States, a Town Hall recital on Dec. 30, 1935, Noel Strauss of The New York Times wrote that Miss Sayao's voice ''if light, was one of pronounced sweetness; silky and caressing when used at its best.
In The Times, Olin Downes wrote of the debut, ''Miss Sayao triumphed as a Manon should, by manners, youth and charm, and secondly by the way in which the voice became the vehicle of dramatic expression.
'' Two weeks later she sang her first ''Boheme'' in the house, and Howard Taubman wrote in The Times that she sang with ''freshness and simplicity.
She wrote about the experience in ''My Wild Irish Rogues'' (Doubleday & Company, 1952).
Dr. Peplau wrote a seminal text, ''Interpersonal Relations in Nursing: A Conceptual Frame of Reference for Psychodynamic Nursing,''  which was completed in 1948 and published in 1952.
She lectured worldwide and wrote articles for many publications.
'' They also wrote and produced ''Nothing Has Been Proved,'' the dense, swirling post-disco theme song that she sang on the soundtrack of the 1989 movie ''Scandal,'' about the Profumo sex scandal that had rocked the British Government.
Lula Jones Garrett, a reporter for The Philadelphia Afro-American, who accompanied Major West on a trip from Atlanta to Fort McClellan in Anniston, Ala., in 1944, wrote how Major West ''had been insulted by a white conductor whom she had asked to hand her baggage from the train.
In a 1981 review of a revival at the Princess Theater on West 48th Street, Richard F. Shepard of The New York Times wrote: ''Miss Corio, who looks radiant, does it all by the book and, whether you like the book or not, it is to her credit that she catches the flavor of the old burlesque with little attempt to ennoble or elevate it.
To the world of the early 1900's, Leo Tolstoy was a literary giant who had become the ''hermit of Yasnaya Polyana,'' the luxurious family estate 150 miles south of Moscow where he lived for 48 years and wrote  ''Anna Karenina'' and ''War and Peace.
She also wrote of her consuming romance with Max Schroeder, a surrealist poet, editor and antifascist whom she married and followed from his wartime exile in New York back to Soviet-controlled East Germany in 1947.
She wrote:
        '' 'I'll break you in,' he said.
In an account of the final days, later included in an anthology, ''Without Force or Lies'' (1990), she wrote of traveling through East Germany in a train compartment with her grandson and watching a young man and woman, strangers, suddenly shed their inhibitions and take up the taboo subject of politics.
The man, agitated, ripped off his tie, warning that East Germans  ''had just about had it,'' she wrote.
''
        At the same time, Ms. Anderson also wrote acidly of the former West Germans ''tramping around'' the prostrate east, flooding it with inferior ''Western goods.
Besides her memoir, Ms. Anderson also wrote ''Gelbes Licht'' (''Yellow Light'') in 1956 about her railroad work, and short stories, children's books and radio plays.
Assuming, correctly, that her readers knew precisely nothing about Chinese cuisine, she wrote clearly and simply, tailoring her recipes to the realities of the American kitchen, even if that meant calling for creamed corn in the recipe for chicken velvet corn soup.
''The book may well be the finest, most lucid volume on Chinese cooking ever written,'' Craig Claiborne wrote in The New York Times in 1962.
''
        With Arthur Chu, Mrs. Chu wrote ''Oriental Antiques and Collectibles: a Guide'' (1973), ''Oriental Cloisonne and Other Enamels'' and ''The Collector's Book of Jade'' (1978).
''For all I know, the tour being my first, wardrobe mistresses are always baronesses,'' Paul Taylor wrote in his autobiography, ''Private Domain.
''It was unlike any bank I had ever seen,'' Graham wrote in her autobiography ''Blood Memory.
Bowman in ''Giselle,'' John Martin wrote in The New York Times that ''besides dancing with complete authority she achieves a dramatic credibility in the difficult first act that very few Giselles can match.
In December 1908, Taft wrote the Czar pointing out Felicia's mother's connection to Russia and saying that the count had put the kidnapped toddler in a convent in Russia.
In later years she wrote for American magazines and newspapers, lived in New York and elsewhere, and wrote novels and short stories.
In later years she wrote for American magazines and newspapers, lived in New York and elsewhere, and wrote novels and short stories.
She wrote several books and many academic papers, and was a Fellow of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford in 1966 and 1967.
Ms. Geis wrote a number of popular books for young readers.
In that capacity she wrote and edited several books for Disney Enterprises, including ''Treasury of Children's Classics,'' ''The Fantasia Book'' and ''Treasury of Stories from Silly Symphonies.

        Gladys Hasty Carroll, a novelist who wrote about the rural Maine of her childhood, died last Thursday at a hospital in York, Me.
She wrote of the experience in ''The Book That Came Alive,'' her last.
''
        Ms. Carroll wrote a total of 23 other works, including ''Dunnybrook,'' a social history of 10 generations of farmers in her community.
''
        Miss Lutyens also wrote several authoritative books about the Indian spiritual philosopher Jiddu Krishnamurt (1895-1986).
''
        She also wrote fiction under the pseudonym Esther Wyndham.
Frank Freidel, a professor of American history at Harvard University, wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Japanese-Americans in the western United States, numbering over 100,000, ''became the scapegoats for the attack on Pearl Harbor.
''
        '' 'Years of Infamy' gives an appalling view of the privation, neglect and even brutality that the bewildered Japanese-Americans underwent in the camps,'' he wrote.

        Ida Klaus, a labor law pioneer who became a high-ranking New York City official in the 1950's and who wrote the law that gave city employees the right to bargain collectively, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
She also wrote Mayor Wagner's executive order creating the first detailed code of labor relations for city employees.
She wrote a book on Bach arias and an autobiography, ''Nehmt Meinen Dank'' (''Accept My Thanks'').
      
''No one wrote better about the tangled relations of men and women or about the enduring romance of friendship,'' said Fran Kiernan, a former New Yorker editor, who edited Ms. Adams's New Yorker stories for 10 years, beginning with ''Beautiful Girl'' in 1977.
When it ended, they moved to Frankfurt, Germany, where Mr. Katzander wrote for Stars and Stripes and Mrs. Katzander was a copy editor.
While a student there, she wrote the words to the Sarah Lawrence College song, set to a 17th-century Dutch carol.
In her role as the newspaper's editorial-page editor for the last 20 years and as a columnist for Newsweek magazine for 25 years, Miss Greenfield pored over the details of policy with the passion of a political scientist and wrote of the complex architecture of democracy with reverence.
''Senator Byrd was seen for a time as just another starchy, retrograde legislator, all hung up on the archaic lore of the Senate, ceaselessly spouting citations and precedents from the Constitution,'' she wrote.
''Refusal to answer a question by setting up a straw man to attack instead is a not uncommon device of debating,'' she wrote.
''It was a piece that really kind of blew the town apart because people were not supposed to write about the Gridiron and I wrote about how racist that particular dinner was,'' Mr. Wilkins said.
In 1980, she wrote a mock lament to the knee-jerk excesses of her chosen profession.
''
        ''That's the part that got us,'' Miss Greenfield wrote.
She  wrote three more books, all, like her first, under the name Helena Kuo, and another with her husband.

        Georgette Scott, a novelist and playwright who wrote under the name Joyce MacIver, died on June 15 at her home in New York.
After moving to New York, she wrote for the International News Service and contributed articles to magazines including Esquire and The Saturday Evening Post.
The federation president wrote:
        ''When I learned in recent weeks that athletes who refused to serve as window-dressing for the Hitler regime received a lifetime ban  .
''
        In Lang's stark cinema of social injustice, the film historian David Thomson wrote, the actress ''caught exactly the fragile happiness allowed in Lang's world and played with a restraint that perfectly matched the fatal simplicity of the plots.
Her designs are sold as kits, and she wrote two popular instruction books on the art: ''Sylvia Sidney's Needlepoint Book'' (1968) and ''The Sylvia Sidney Question and Answer Book on Needlepoint'' (1975).
Tobin Harshaw, reviewing it in The New York Times Book Review, wrote: ''One struggles to find a sentence that is anything less than jewel-box perfect.
''
        Born Arline Shandling in Long Beach, Calif., to parents who had emigrated from Latvia and Lithuania, Ms. Berriault spent much of her childhood in Los Angeles, where her father wrote and edited trade magazines.
In an interview, Ms. Raskin said of ''Hot Flashes'': ''I wrote the story I knew.
''
        Ms. Raskin also wrote for numerous publications, including The New York Times, and was active in writers' groups.
She assisted Senator Paul H. Douglas, an economist, with an update of his standard text, ''Theory of Wages,'' and wrote briefs for Presidential emergency boards named to resolve railroad labor disputes.
The couple began investing in Broadway productions in the 1930's because, as their children said yesterday, while Mrs. Cullman worked at Stage she liked to be sure that a play the magazine wrote about would not fold before the next issue appeared.
In addition, she wrote two books, ''Occupation Angel'' (1962), about Broadway, and ''Ninety Dozen Glasses'' (1960), about her life with Mr. Cullman in 1958, when he was the United States Commissioner for the World's Fair in Brussels.
The rock star Sting wrote a song about her organization called ''They Dance Alone.
''While Ms. Williams shows that she can write a novel better than a lot of novelists, nowhere does she cut herself off from her poetic roots,'' wrote Mr. Bradley, citing a passage in which the character Dessa recalls her lover, Kaine:
        ''Kaine, his voice high and clear as running water over a settled stream bed, swooping to her through her.

        Joan Wight, the widow of the Yorkshire veterinarian who wrote under the name James Herriot and the model for a character in his books and television programs based on them, died on Wednesday.
She wrote a book about her fishing experiences called ''Albacora: The Search for the Giant Broadbill'' (Random House 1957).
She retired from acting in the 50's and later wrote for Architectural Digest.
''No ballet production can be fossilized,'' she wrote in a review of the recent Kirov Ballet revival of Marius Petipa's ''Sleeping Beauty'' that was reprinted in the August edition of the English journal Dancing Times in a translation by Igor Stupnikov.
''Now the company tries to revive what was created more than 100 years ago,'' Ms. Krasovskaya wrote.
''
        ''Petipa wrote that any ballet, like a human being, is continually changing and developing,'' she added.
''
        She wrote about dancers, choreographers and ballet company seasons for Soviet and foreign ballet periodicals.
She also wrote biographies of Anna Pavlova, Vaslav Nijinsky, Vagonova and the dancer Nikita Dolgushin.
In ''Middle Age'' she wrote:
        Everywhere I look it is the same,
        The churchyard or the other side of the bed.
And in the poem ''Home,'' she wrote:
        Out of the window
        I see the opposite roofs
        Fitting well like ours.
In ''Reader, I Married Him'' (1975), a study of the female characters of Charlotte Bronte, Jane Austen, Elizabeth Gaskell and George Eliot, Ms. Beer ''demonstrates with wit, wide knowledge and a bare minimum of footnotes that even the greatest of women novelists were enthralled by the need of preserving the superior position of men,'' wrote Carolyn G. Heilbrun in The New York Times Book Review.
She also wrote a novel, ''Moon's Ottery'' (1978), and a childhood memoir, ''Mrs.
In 1938, she moved to New York City, where she worked as a freelance and wrote advertising copy for several magazines.
Ms. Schwartz wrote an autobiography, ''My Fifty Years in Nursing: Give Us to Go Blithely'' (Springer; 2d ed., 1995), which remains in print.
In his history of American book publishing, ''Between Covers,'' John Tebbel wrote, ''Vanguard never became a large and important house, but it continued to publish quality books year after year.
''
        Indeed, the studios were as much about sales as they were about the cha-cha or tango, and it was Mrs. Murray who wrote the training manuals for the franchises, including the lucrative advice, ''Don't try to teach a whole course in one lesson.
She wrote two books, ''My Husband, Arthur Murray,'' with Betty Hannah Hoffman, in 1960, and ''Family Laugh Lines,'' a collection of anecdotes about celebrity friends, in 1966.
''
        ''Viola Sheely's range here is impressive, but nothing prepares the audience for her last stunning soliloquy -- a bellowed, ecstatic release,'' Anna Kisselgoff, senior dance critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1991.
Noel Straus, reviewing the concert in The New York Times, wrote of her performance of a Mendelssohn Etude that ''a child capable of so polished and eloquent an example of pianism has a future worth watching.
She was a food columnist for The Spectator when she met Ms. Dickson Wright, a former barrister who wrote a column for Decanter magazine and owned a cookbook store in Edinburgh, where she lives.
''
        ''It is their rapid rise here, of course, that makes this careless effort at a cookbook so regrettable,'' she wrote.

        Celestine Sibley, an Atlanta newspaper columnist who for 55 years wrote about the commonplaces of Southern life in a prose as soothing as the hum of cicadas in summer, died on Sunday at her vacation home on Dog Island, Fla.
        Ms. Sibley was 85, and her last column was published in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution on July 25.
''
        And years after the racial turmoil of the 1960's that transformed the South, Ms. Sibley wrote a 1990 column about the movie ''Driving Miss Daisy,'' marked by a sharpness and almost rueful tone.
''
        Ms. Sibley also wrote 25 books, most of them mystery novels, including some that featured Kate Kincaid, a reporter at The Atlanta Searchlight.
Mrs. Braden herself wrote a book, ''Just Enough Rope: An Intimate Memoir'' (1989).
''
        ''The title refers to the amount of freedom the author has received from her husband,'' Ms. Dowd wrote.
Chan Parker, a native New Yorker, was originally named Beverly Dolores Berg, but as she wrote in her 1993 memoirs, ''My Life in E-flat'' (University of South Carolina), ''I changed that name as soon as I could.
An artist who wrote poems about pottery and made pots inspired by her reading, Ms. Richards was perhaps best known for ''Centering in Pottery, Poetry and the Person,'' a book of essays published in the middle of the tumultuous 1960's that was impressive for its synthesis of thought, plain speech and incantatory momentum.
''Poets are not the only poets,'' Ms. Richards wrote.
'' She went on to the University of California at Berkeley, where she studied Chinese and wrote her Ph.D. dissertation on irony in Thomas Hardy in 1942.
''Our first meeting had not impressed Raisa at all,'' he wrote.
'' Not much later, at an impromptu party staged by Mr. Gorbachev's roommates for Raisa and her friends, ''I wanted to impress her,'' he wrote, but ''I think I made a terrible fool of myself.
''Many men would reject the trade and would never marry a female performer,'' Karin van Nieuwkerk wrote in a 1995 book about Egyptian dancers called ''A Trade Like Any Other'' and published by the University of Texas Press.
But as Jeff Greenfield wrote in a review of Mrs. Exner's autobiography, ''My Story'' (1977), in The New York Times Book Review, she ''sought no publicity, at least until after a Senate committee investigating C.I.A.-Mafia connections summoned her to testify and press reports revealed her supposed connections to Kennedy'' and to Sam Giancana, a Chicago organized-crime figure.
'' After her cancer was diagnosed last year, Ms. Erickson wrote a monthly chronicle of her fight against cancer called ''Diane's Diary'' for Self.
In his review, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, wrote, ''There is not a superfluous phrase, a meaningless gesture, an item of mere decoration in the choreography from end to end.
In the early 1940's she studied ballet and wrote dance criticism.
She wrote for The Bronx Home News, The New York Sun, The Sun-World Telegram and WOR radio.

        Doreen Valiente, a self-proclaimed witch who in the mid-1950's wrote part of the liturgy now used by witches around the world, died in Brighton, England, on Sept. 1.
''The story of witchcraft in Britain is unique, in both its form and mildness, when compared with the rest of Europe,'' wrote Ronald Holmes in his book, ''Witchcraft in British History'' in 1974.
Ms. Heskes also wrote extensively about Jewish music for academic publications and Jewish newspapers and magazines, and she wrote several books that covered the expanse of Jewish composition, including ''The Cantorial Art'' (1966); ''Ernest Bloch: Creative Spirit,'' with Suzanne Bloch, the composer's daughter (1976); ''The Resource Book of Jewish Music'' (1985); ''The Music of Abraham Goldfaden: Father of the Yiddish Theater'' (1990); ''Yiddish American Popular Songs, 1895 to 1950'' (1992), and ''Passport to Jewish Music: Its History, Traditions and Culture'' (1994).
Ms. Heskes also wrote extensively about Jewish music for academic publications and Jewish newspapers and magazines, and she wrote several books that covered the expanse of Jewish composition, including ''The Cantorial Art'' (1966); ''Ernest Bloch: Creative Spirit,'' with Suzanne Bloch, the composer's daughter (1976); ''The Resource Book of Jewish Music'' (1985); ''The Music of Abraham Goldfaden: Father of the Yiddish Theater'' (1990); ''Yiddish American Popular Songs, 1895 to 1950'' (1992), and ''Passport to Jewish Music: Its History, Traditions and Culture'' (1994).
''
        ''I believe that, through my novels, I showed that it was possible to write novels where the purely fictional element was freed from the conventions that encumbered it, just as the purely pictorial element in painting has freed itself from subject matter, perspective, and so on,'' Mrs. Sarraute wrote in an essay in The New York Times Book Review in 1964.
''She could be uptight and relaxed, cantankerous and amiable, dour and cheerful,'' he wrote.
''The fact that this misty book contains some valid satirical points does not make it a rewarding novel,'' Orville Prescott wrote in The New York Times in February 1964.
But it was less successful than several pieces that she wrote as radio plays and that were later staged, among them ''The Lie'' and ''Silence.
Ms. Mortimer also wrote two highly praised volumes of memoirs and several television screenplays, including her adaptation of ''Portrait of a Marriage,'' the 1973 biography of Vita Sackville-West and her husband, Harold Nicolson, by Nigel Nicolson, their son.
Ms. Piscator wrote books including ''The Piscator Experiment: The Political Theater,'' which was published by James H. Heineman in 1967, a year after her husband's death.
Miss (her preference) Foveaux (pronounced FOH-voh), a snowy-haired great-great-grandmother, lived a literary fairy tale when she turned a memoir she wrote in a writing class for senior citizens in her hometown, Manhattan, Kan., into the book ''Any Given Day.
Of her decision to divorce, she wrote, ''I made up my mind to live my life so that I need not be ashamed to look at myself in a mirror.
When some stars, including Gregory Peck, James Mason, Pat Boone and Larry Hagman, wrote letters of thanks, she used them in her promotions.
''The only way to make my inside match my outside was to become a nun,'' she wrote.
She wrote several books, including several children's books published in the 1960's.
''
        In her forward to Mrs. Bates's 1962 book, ''The Long Shadow of Little Rock,'' Eleanor Roosevelt wrote, ''I have paid her homage in my thoughts many times and I want to tell her again how remarkable I think she was through these horrible years.
''So happy once,'' she wrote, ''now I was like a little sapling which, after a violent storm, puts out only gnarled and twisted branches.
''My eyes none too dry, I saw the parents with tears of happiness in their eyes as they watched the group drive off,'' Mrs. Bates wrote.
Dr. Bluestone wrote about 200 articles in professional as well as lay journals.
She wrote a book, ''So You Want to Be a Doctor?
She wrote on many issues confronting American medicine, particularly those affecting women as doctors and patients.
She wrote columns for such publications as The New Physician, Medical Dimensions and Resident and Staff Physician.
''
        She said some asked advice about the dictatorial atmosphere of hospitals and the terror and loneliness of internship, adding, ''The women, in particular, wrote to me about sexism, discrimination, problems juggling career, home, family, husband.
Increasingly, she wrote against religious communalism, fundamentalism and superstitions.
Mrs. Slatkin, who published numerous articles on Boucher in Burlington magazine and other journals, was instrumental in organizing the National Gallery of Art's 1974 exhibition of Boucher drawings, the first major show of its kind in North America, for which she wrote the catalog introduction and entries.
With her husband she wrote ''The Enjoyment of Art in America'' (1947) and ''Six Centuries of French Master Drawings in America'' (1950).
''
        Kraft, an enthusiast who kept the notes from her first tennis lesson at age 12, wrote ''The Tennis Workbook,'' a learning and practice guide for beginners, and ''The Tennis Teacher's Guide to Group Instruction and Community Tennis Programming.
Ms. Sircar wrote ''Navanritya: Toward Contemporary Indian Dance.
Robert Casadesus wrote several works for the duo, including Six Pieces (1938), and a Concerto for Two Pianos, which they first performed in Warsaw in 1934, and with the New York Philharmonic in 1950.
''Birding is the best and most exciting pursuit in the world, a glorified never-ending one,'' Mrs. Snetsinger wrote.
Mr. Farkas wrote that Enrico Caruso had four children from a relationship with Ada Giacchetti, a soprano who had left her husband to live with the tenor before his marriage to Miss Benjamin.
Soon after, she married Jeffrey Dell, a scriptwriter for the movie producer Alexander Korda, and they wrote a play called ''The Judge,'' which was staged in London in 1938.
In 1952, she wrote and produced a BBC radio documentary about the British suffragist movement, a subject that was near to her heart since a chance meeting in 1940 with a group of aging suffragists at a memorial service for one of their members.
She also wrote articles and books, the most successful of which was ''A Psychic's Story,'' published in 1980.
She was born in New York and graduated from Vassar College in 1937, after which she worked as a reporter and wrote dialogue for MGM films.
'' She was, Kirstein wrote, ''proficient in the science and pursuit of the possible and impossible.
At age 26, she took part in the ''Committee of the 75,'' which wrote a first draft of Italy's postwar constitution.
''If you have never experienced life under a microscope, you need to understand that those who live a public life are no longer seen as real persons -- human beings,'' Ms. Bird wrote in a 1996 newspaper column.
''A knitter's question which arises perennially,'' she wrote in Knitter's Almanac, ''is, 'How much wool should I buy?
'' she wrote in Knitter's Almanac.
Dr. Chall engaged in renewed combat in 1983, when, in the spring issue of Contemporary Education Review, she wrote a blistering review of a scholarly book, ''On Learning to Read'' (Knopf, 1982), by the psychologists  Bruno Bettelheim and Karen Zelan.
