From 1946 until her retirement in 1961, she was the manager of the CBS Radio Record Library and wrote and managed contracts for the network's performing artists.
The Polish composers Witold Lutoslawski and Kzysztof Penderecki also wrote for her.
She compiled and wrote a 566-page bibliography for her collection, which she donated to the university in 1981.
A native of Newark, Mrs. Lerner studied drama at New York University and wrote several plays.
Mrs. Walters, who used the pen name, Elizabeth Ogg, wrote nearly 50 pamphlets dealing mainly with mental health and social problems for the Public Affairs Committee, Inc. of New York City.
Decades later Miss Gaver summarized what she saw as her mission in the title of a pamphlet she wrote: "Every Child Needs a School Library.
She wrote and edited numerous articles and books on libraries.
Ms. Primus, who was born in New York City and whose full name was Ronnie Francesca Primus, was a critic, columnist and feature writer for Backstage and also wrote for other theatrical periodicals.
Savoir-Faire Was Helpful
        Ms. Jablonski became the Journal's oil editor and "the most influentual oil journalist of her time," as Daniel Yergin wrote in his history of the oil business, "The Prize" (Simon & Schuster, 1990).
After the Broadway premiere of the 1947 "Medea" -- a new adaptation of Euripides's drama, written for Dame Judith by the poet Robinson Jeffers -- Brooks Atkinson wrote in The New York Times that she had "set a landmark in the theater" with her "inspired performance of rage and revenge.
Born to Be Evil
        Early in her career, in a 1924 issue of Theater Magazine, Dame Judith wrote, "I like emotional roles because they permit unleashing of one's feelings.
When she appeared in a 1936 production of "Hamlet" at the Empire Theater, Brooks Atkinson wrote that in her performance as Hamlet's mother, the queen, she had "abandoned the matronly stuffiness that usually plagues that part and given us a woman of strong and bewildered feeling.
Resonance of Tradition
        Reviewing the 1982 revival of "Medea," in which she played the nurse who tries in vain to thwart Medea's murderous intentions, Frank Rich wrote in The Times that Dame Judith's presence "gives this 'Medea' the valuable resonance of theatrical tradition" and praised her acting as harrowing.
Dr. Jenkins wrote 10 books and was the founding director of the Center for the Study of Social Work Practice.
She also wrote "American Economic Policy Toward the Philippines" (Stanford University, 1954).
Wrote for Radio and Films
        British critics often described Ms. Carter's writing style as "magic realism," but she believed the label was not quite accurate.
She wrote radio scripts, short stories, children's books and screenplays, one of which became the 1984 film "The Company of Wolves.
" Jack Gould wrote that she "sings and acts with the ferocity of a poisonous snake.
" Jack Gould wrote that she "sings and acts with the ferocity of a poisonous snake.
During her judicial career, she wrote and lectured often on the Constitution, adoption, pornography, alimony and divorce and the rights of children.
She disclosed her findings in 1969 in the book "Ammi Phillips, Portrait Painter, 1788-1865," which she wrote with Barbara and Lawrence Holdridge, folk art collectors.
Mrs. Koestler wrote "The Unseen Minority" (McKay, 1976), a study of blindness in the United States.
She also wrote freelance articles and book reviews for The New York Times, Newsday, The Washington Post, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Detroit Free Press, The Nation and American Mercury.
" Praise From Richard Burton
        But in 1967, Mr. Kerr wrote tolerantly but pointedly of Ms. Dennis's "habit" of speaking on stage as though sentences "were poor crippled things that couldn't cross a street without making three false starts from the curb.
She also wrote two books, "College Remedial Reader" (Putnam, 1958) and "Advanced College Reader (Putnam, 1963).
Besides her 15 screenplays, she wrote more than 20 short stories for magazines, hundreds of newspaper articles and several plays and television scripts.
For television she wrote "Jack and the Beanstalk," starring Joel Grey, for NBC in 1956.
The following year she wrote "The General Motors 50th Anniversary Show.
Besides her 15 screenplays, she wrote more than 20 short stories for magazines, hundreds of newspaper articles and several plays and television scripts.
For television she wrote "Jack and the Beanstalk," starring Joel Grey, for NBC in 1956.
The following year she wrote "The General Motors 50th Anniversary Show.
"
        But in 1967, Mr. Kerr wrote tolerantly but pointedly of Ms. Dennis's "habit" of speaking onstage as though sentences "were poor crippled things that couldn't cross a street without making three false starts from the curb.
In 1924, she married Gerald H. Carson, an advertising executive, who later wrote several books as a social historian, including "Cornflake Crusade.
She later started a public relations company in New York, wrote "Anita Colby's Beauty Book," bought and sold the Women's News Service, for which she wrote a syndicated newspaper column called "Anita Says," and appeared for six months on the "Today" show with Dave Garroway.
She later started a public relations company in New York, wrote "Anita Colby's Beauty Book," bought and sold the Women's News Service, for which she wrote a syndicated newspaper column called "Anita Says," and appeared for six months on the "Today" show with Dave Garroway.
She also wrote four other books on photography.
For CBS television she wrote "We the Women" the first network documentary on women's rights.
She frequently wrote on the subject for Musical America, eventually becoming an associate editor, and was a contributing editor to Opera News.
She was also a frequent contributer to the major food magazines and for several decades wrote a column about food, wine and travel for The National Review.
In 1934, she married a noted outdoorsman and author, Selwyn Kip Farrington Jr.
        Mrs. Farrington, under the pen name of Chisie Farrington and as an internationally known angler with seven world records to her credit, wrote "Women Can Fish" in 1951.
"Women Can Fish," as well as the fishing articles she wrote in the 1930's and 40's for Harpers Bazaar, Vogue and Mademoiselle, helped to establish women as sporting participants in their own right.
In an article in Bridge World, she wrote that the British captain, Ralph Swimer, had failed in his duties, and he sued her for libel.
Mrs. Markus wrote eight books about bridge in addition to her autobiography, "A Vulnerable Game," published in London in 1988.
When she performed her first English-speaking starring role, in 1940 in Sylvia Regan's drama "Morning Star," Brooks Atkinson, who did not care for the show itself, wrote about Miss Picon in The New York Times, "To coin a phrase, she is a darling.
Jacob Kalich, her husband and colleague from 1919 until his death in 1975, wrote more than 40 scripts for her, and Joseph Rumshinsky, the well-known composer, did most of her music.
Mr. Kalich wrote for her one of her most sustained presentations, the play "Yankele," a sort of Yiddish Peter Pan story in which she portrayed a little boy.
" She wrote the lyrics to the music by Sholom Secunda, and the book was by Mr. Kalich and Louis Freiman.
Hanna Schygulla, the German film actress, wrote in a tribute: "We, the ones born afterward, the postwar generation, are proud that there were people like you, people who during the Hitler period took the side of the enemy, and did it out of love for a better Germany.
"
        "Mary Magedelene Dietrich is dead, but Marlene Dietrich remains," Miss Schygulla wrote.
For more than 40 years she was married to James Montgomery, the playwright who wrote "Nothing but the Truth" and the book for the musical "Irene," among other works.
In recent years, she lectured and wrote about Catherine de' Medici, the Renaissance monarch who influenced the development of ballet in European courts.
"In other markets, on other shores, the unfamiliar fishes may be vivid, mysterious, repellant, fascinating and bright with splendid color," she wrote in "Italian Food.
'Most Vulnerable Fantasies'
        Her manner, the critic Kenneth Tynan wrote, was that of "a serpentine lasso whereby her voice casually winds itself around our most vulnerable fantasies.
"
        "She has sex but no positive gender," Tynan wrote.
In her memoirs, "Marlene Dietrich's ABC," published in 1962, she wrote: "Once a woman has forgiven her man, she must not reheat his sins for breakfast.
She also lectured, wrote book reviews, was the host of a children's television show for a year, evaluated manuscripts for publishers and was the juvenile editor of Publisher's Weekly.
In a career spanning more than 60 years, Mrs. Fisher wrote hundreds of stories for The New Yorker, as well as 15 books of essays and reminisences.
In 1943 she wrote in her book "The Gastronomical Me":
        "People ask me: Why do you write about food, and eating and drinking?
" In a review of "As They Were," (Alfred A. Knopf, 1982) for The New York Times Book Review, Raymond Sokolov wrote, "In a properly run culture, Mary Frances Kennedy Fisher would be recognized as one of the great writers this country has produced in this century.
Mrs. Fisher wrote of her entrance into the world: "I began in Albion, Mich., and was born there on July 3, 1908, in a heat wave.
"I wrote a book about my childhood, and I wanted to call it 'Child of an Inner Ghetto.
In a 1942 review of "How to Cook a Wolf," in The New York Herald Tribune, Lewis Gannett wrote that anyone familiar with the writer's earlier work "will recall the faintly Gothic perversity that makes Mrs. Fisher's literature unique.
Northpoint Press (which released new editions of many of her earlier books), published "Dubious Honors," a collection of introductions that Mrs. Fisher wrote for others' books.
Both before and after her retirement, Sister Margaret wrote articles and books about American church history, including "Catholicism in English-Speaking Lands" (Hawthorn Books, 1964).
In a career spanning more than 60 years, Mrs. Fisher wrote hundreds of stories for The New Yorker, as well as 15 books of essays and reminiscences.
In 1943 she wrote in her book "The Gastronomical Me": "People ask me: Why do you write about food, and eating and drinking?
" In a review of "As They Were," (Alfred A. Knopf, 1982) for The New York Times Book Review, Raymond Sokolov wrote, "In a properly run culture, Mary Frances Kennedy Fisher would be recognized as one of the great writers this country has produced in this century.
Mrs. Fisher wrote of her entrance into the world: "I began in Albion, Mich., and was born there on July 3, 1908, in a heat wave.
"I wrote a book about my childhood, and I wanted to call it 'Child of an Inner Ghetto.
In a 1942 review of "How to Cook a Wolf," in The New York Herald Tribune, Lewis Gannett wrote that anyone familiar with the writer's earlier work "will recall the faintly Gothic perversity that makes Mrs. Fisher's literature unique.
In "An Alphabet for Gourmets," (Viking, 1949), she wrote: "A complete lack of caution is perhaps one of the true signs of a real gourmet: he has no need for it, being filled as he is with a God-given and intelligently self-cultivated sense of gastronomical freedom.
Northpoint Press (which released new editions of many of her earlier books), published "Dubious Honors," a collection of introductions that Mrs. Fisher wrote for others' books.
She wrote a total of 15.
Ms. Uchida wrote 29 books from 1949 to 1991.
"The graceful and lively books of Yoshiko Uchida have drawn on the author's own childhood to document the Japanese-American experience" in fiction for her young audience, Patty Campbell wrote in a review of Ms. Uchida's "Happiest Ending" (Atheneum, 1985) in The New York Times Book Review.
"She is not a Spanish dancer who needs to move quickly or to make a lot of noise with heel and toe beats," Allen Hughes wrote in The New York Times in 1965.
She was active in the Girl Scouts of America and wrote two books on Scouting.
Reviewing it for The New York Times Book Review, Louis Kronenberger wrote that it had "a wonderful freshness about it; not simply the freshness of a new writer, but the freshness of a new world," and that Mrs. Ray's strength was her ability to use words to paint "a wonderful large and vital picture.
During this period she also wrote a column for The New York Post and contributed articles to a number of national magazines.
Meyer Berger wrote in The New York Times in 1958: "Jewels form under her fingers.
She wrote books on origami and puppets, including three with the puppeteer Shari Lewis.
She also wrote several musicals, including a version of "Tom Jones" for CBS-TV.
Outside the genre, Ms. Baer wrote "The Self-Chosen" (Arbor House, 1982), a book about what she called "the world of the Jewish elite" in the United States since World War II.
But after seeing her perform, he decided she was just what he needed and wrote "As Long As He Needs Me" and "It's a Fine Life" for her.
In a review, W. H. Auden wrote, "we should be very grateful to Miss Dalven for introducing us to a world of poetry which has been closed to us" by the language barrier.
Mr. Auden later wrote the introductions to her "The Complete Poems of Cavafy" (Harcourt, Brace, 1961) and "The Fourth Dimension" (Godine, 1977), translating Yannis Ritsos.
Dr. Dalven also wrote two plays, the first of which, "A Season in Hell," about the French poets Rimbaud and Verlaine, was produced Off Broadway in 1950.
She wrote several books on the conditions faced by children and adolescents and served as an adviser to the United Nations and two of its agencies, Unesco and Unicef.
First Paper on Subject
        Dr. Laubenstein and Dr. Alvin Friedman-Kien wrote the first paper to be published in a medical journal on the alarming appearance of Kaposi's sarcoma, a previously rare disease of lesions of the skin and other tissues.
Books for Home and Family
        Mrs. Rodgers wrote several books on home design and entertaining, including "My Favorite Things" (1964) and "The House in My Head" (1967).
With her daughter Mary, she wrote "A Word to the Wives" (1970), which offered advice on mother-daughter relations.
Her photographs revealed, Graham wrote in 1980, "the inner landscape that is a dancer's world.
In a review, W. H. Auden wrote, "we should be very grateful to Miss Dalven for introducing us to a world of poetry which has been closed to us" by the language barrier.
Mr. Auden later wrote the introductions to her "The Complete Poems of Cavafy" (Harcourt, Brace, 1961) and "The Fourth Dimension" (Godine, 1977), translating Yannis Ritsos.
Dr. Dalven also wrote two plays, the first of which, "A Season in Hell," about the French poets Rimbaud and Verlaine, was produced Off Broadway in 1950.
She also appeared for eight years in the radio serial "Those We Love," and she wrote and starred in "The Wrens' Nest," one of television's first family comedies, which was broadcast by ABC in 1949.
In a 1966 review in The New York Times, Stanley Kauffmann wrote that her portrayal of Mrs. Antrobus in a revival of "The Skin of Our Teeth" was "very easily the best" he had seen.
"Miss Nelson misses no nuance of reality that the part offers, and in one moment -- when she mourns her murdered son Abel -- she touches true elegy," he wrote.
In a 1966 review in The New York Times, Stanley Kauffmann wrote that her portrayal of Mrs. Antrobus in a revival of "The Skin of Our Teeth" was "very easily the best" he had seen.
"Miss Nelson misses no nuance of reality that the part offers, and in one moment -- when she mourns her murdered son Abel -- she touches true elegy," he wrote.
After Professor Freeman died in 1953, she and another research associate, John A. Carroll, wrote the seventh and final volume of Freeman's authoritative "George Washington, a Biography" published by Scribner's in 1957.
Encouraged by American editors, she wrote down some of the stories she told her own children.
Her ideas about transposable elements, they wrote, were "ahead of her time and Barbara found herself in an anomalous and unique position," adding, "She was universally respected and admired as one of the leading geneticists of her era, yet the reaction to her latest and perhaps most profound discoveries and insights was often uncomprehending or indifferent and not infrequently dismissive or even hostile.
In her biography of Dr. McClintock, "A Feeling for the Organism," Dr.  Evelyn Fox Keller of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology wrote that geneticists were baffled by Dr. McClintock's ideas because they seemed too much at odds with the very nature of Darwinian evolution.
Mrs. MacKaye, who wrote under the byline Dorothy Cameron Disney, was something of a pioneer both as an advice columnist and a marriage counselor, and for generations of readers her column -- entertaining, occasionally titillating, sometimes a little pedantic -- served as a spyglass into the lives of anonymous strangers.
" 'He (or she) never listens' is universal," she wrote.
Together with her husband, John F. Raynolds 3d, former president of Outward Bound USA, she wrote "Beyond Success -- How Volunteer Service Can Help You Begin Making a Life Insead of Just a Living.
Eudora Welty wrote that "her touch is as light as it is sure, and as revealing as it is quiet.
The New York Times drama critic Brooks Atkinson, reviewing a 1954 Broadway musical, "By the Beautiful Sea," wrote that Miss Booth's acting "radiates all through a large theater and draws an audience close together.
She also worked as a translator for Isaac Bashevis Singer and wrote for The New Yorker, Mademoiselle and Redbook.
She was also a food columnist for Gourmet magazine and wrote two volumes of essays and recipes, "Home Cooking" (Knopf, 1988) and "More Home Cooking" (HarperCollins, 1990).
She also worked as a translator for Isaac Bashevis Singer and wrote for The New Yorker, Mademoiselle and Redbook.
She was also a food columnist for Gourmet magazine and wrote two volumes of essays and recipes, "Home Cooking" (Knopf, 1988) and "More Home Cooking," due to be published by HarperCollins.
" The historian Leo Steinberg once wrote of her ability "to score triumphantly for the willed act as against chance effect.
With her father, she wrote a book on Luca Cambiaso, a 16th- century Genoese painter.
When she gave her farewell performance at the Met, on Dec. 31, 1976, Allen Hughes wrote in The New York Times that "she sang and acted the part of Tosca with the vocal control and dramatic acuity of a prima donna in mid-career.
"
        In an article she wrote for Opera News just before that performance, Miss Kirsten attributed her vocal longevity to her refusal to accept roles that she felt were too heavy for her voice.
"I've always believed in the principle of protection, and I never sang a role I felt was not right for my voice," she wrote.
"
        After retiring, Dr. Spencer received a Fulbright grant and returned to Paris, where she researched 15th-century French book illustration and wrote articles for scholarly journals.
Ms. Lorde had had cancer for 14 years and in 1980 wrote "The Cancer Journals," which traced the first stages of her disease.
In the 1950's and 1960's Miss Hirsh wrote campaign speeches for Senators John F. Kennedy and Robert F. Kennedy.
In 1969 she wrote "The World of Turner, 1775-1851," an examination of the work of the artist Joseph Mallord William Turner, published by Time-Life Books.

        Vanessa S. Lynn, a New York gallery director who wrote about contemporary American crafts, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center.
Mrs. Smith wrote an article for The New York Times Magazine and a book, both titled "Another Name for Madness" (Houghton Mifflin, 1985), about her mother's ordeal.
Ms. Claiborne was active in the antiwar movement and frequently wrote in opposition to the stockpiling of nuclear weapons.
'She Dares Her Students'
        Her classroom performances were among the most energetic in New York, Foster Hirsch wrote in his 1984 book "A Method to Their Madness.
" "Stella," he wrote, "is theatrical royalty who instills in her students a sense of the nobility of acting.
She had been in declining health for a year, said her son, Ian von Franckenstein of Kentland, Calif.
        Miss Boyle wrote four dozen books, including many works of fiction, seven books of poetry and four books for children.
Late in her life, Miss Boyle wrote that she saw herself "as a dangerous 'radical' cleverly disguised as a perfect lady.
Reviewing a 1988 collection of her short stories, "Life Being the Best & Other Stories," edited by Sandra Whipple (New Directions), Ann Hornaday wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book celebrated her "enduring artistic discipline.
' At Home in Europe
        "Unlike some of her better-known peers," Ms. Hornaday wrote, Miss Boyle "survived the halcyon days of Paris in the 1920's," and although she "is not as notorious as some of the other Moderns -- those intrepid expatriate writers who set out to change language, mesh literature and social context and expose the dissonance of contemporary life -- she evokes these tensions with a gossamer fineness.
"I like to be with people who work -- English, French, or any foreign working people," she wrote, but "I am ill at ease with Americans.
Reviewing "50 Stories," a collection of her work published in 1980, Vance Bourjaily wrote in The New York Times that the stories included such techniques as "literary simplification, rhythmic repetition, the mixing in of vernacular, stream of consciousness, density of impressions, radical imagery and experiments with surrealism.
Known professionally as Antoinette Deland, she wrote three popular travel guides: Fielding's Worldwide Cruises, which she began writing in 1985 and wrote for five revised editions; Fielding's Far East, which she wrote in 1983, 1987, and 1990, and Fodor's Bermuda, which she wrote from 1979 through 1987.
Known professionally as Antoinette Deland, she wrote three popular travel guides: Fielding's Worldwide Cruises, which she began writing in 1985 and wrote for five revised editions; Fielding's Far East, which she wrote in 1983, 1987, and 1990, and Fodor's Bermuda, which she wrote from 1979 through 1987.
Known professionally as Antoinette Deland, she wrote three popular travel guides: Fielding's Worldwide Cruises, which she began writing in 1985 and wrote for five revised editions; Fielding's Far East, which she wrote in 1983, 1987, and 1990, and Fodor's Bermuda, which she wrote from 1979 through 1987.
Known professionally as Antoinette Deland, she wrote three popular travel guides: Fielding's Worldwide Cruises, which she began writing in 1985 and wrote for five revised editions; Fielding's Far East, which she wrote in 1983, 1987, and 1990, and Fodor's Bermuda, which she wrote from 1979 through 1987.
" Describing her show-stopping number, "Bewitched, Bothered and Bewildered," Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times wrote, "In a singularly sweet voice she sings some scabrous lyrics by Lorenz Hart to one of Richard Rodgers' most haunting tunes.
