
        Alice Herrington, the founder and longtime president of Friends of Animals, one of the country's best known animal-protection societies, died on Tuesday at DeKalb Medical Center in Decatur, Ga. Ms. Herrington, a former resident of Manhattan and Little Silver, N.J., was 75 and lived in Lithonia, Ga.
        The cause of death was cancer, her family said.
        She founded the nonprofit organization in Manhattan in 1957 and retired as its president at the end of 1986. It now has headquarters in Darien, Conn., and counts 150,000 contributing members nationwide.
        When she started Friends of Animals, its purpose was to protect cats and dogs. To that end it offered low-cost spaying and neutering services to cut down the number of strays across the country. The organization eventually built its own clinic for this in Neptune, N.J.
        Under her leadership the society widened its activities to preserve animals in general, including wildlife, marine mammals and zoo animals. Ms. Herrington pursued her cause in letters to the editor, advertisements, Op-Ed articles, lectures and public testimony. Panel for Humane Legislation
        Her targets included the killing of seals and their pups for fur; leg-hold traps for catching raccoons for their coats; hunters who paid thousands of dollars to shoot polar bears from the air; rodeos in which electric rods, bucking straps and steel spurs are used on broncos and bulls, and cruel uses of animals for experiments, research and testing.
        She also started and directed a Committee for Humane Legislation to require that animals be rendered unconscious and insensible to pain before slaughter. That campaign in the 1960's aroused controversy because it was aimed at the shackling and hoisting method used by some kosher slaughterers.
        Her disapproval of fur coats led to her arrest for disorderly conduct in 1979, when she took part in a protest outside Gracie Mansion. The occasion was a dinner given by Mayor Edward I. Koch for a group of furriers in town for a convention.
        "Hunting is all part of the macho world," she once told an interviewer.  "You bring up your boys and suggest that to be a man like their father they should kill everything that moves, right?"
        Ms. Herrington, a Wisconsin native, graduated from the University of Wisconsin.
        She is survived by a daughter, Jennifer C. Schmid of Lawrenceville, Ga., and a sister, Rachel E. Brodeaux of Harlingen, Tex.
      