
        Jean Brown, a collector of Dada, Surrealism and Fluxus, died on Sunday at the Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. She was 82 and lived in Tyringham, Mass.
        She died of natural causes, said her son, Jonathan, of Princeton, N.J.
        Sometimes called the den mother of Fluxus, Mrs. Brown possessed a natural openness to new art and counted among her friends such avant-gardists as Marcel Duchamp, John Cage and George Maciunas, the leader of the Fluxus movement.  Going to Museums
        Mrs. Brown, whose maiden name was Levy, was born in 1911 in Brooklyn. Her father was a rare-book dealer who enjoyed taking his daughter to museums. She briefly attended Columbia University. In 1936, she married Leonard Brown, an insurance agent. They settled in Springfield, Mass., where Mrs. Brown worked as a librarian.
        In the late 1950's, after collecting Abstract Expressionist paintings, the Browns began to acquire Dadaist and Surrealist art, manifestoes and periodicals. They soon moved on to Fluxus, a new, irreverent art movement that stressed multiples, printed ephemera, posters, newspapers and mail art.
        After Mr. Brown's death in 1971, Mrs. Brown moved to Tyringham, and expanded into areas adjacent to Fluxus, including artists' books, concrete poetry, happenings and performance art. Her home, originally a Shaker seed house, became an important center for both Fluxus artists and scholars, with Mrs. Brown alternately cooking meals and showing her guests her collection. Activities centered on a large attic archive built by Mr. Maciunas.  A 20th-Century Collection
        In 1985, as the Jean Brown Archive approached 6,000 items, it was bought by the J. Paul Getty Center for the History of Art and the Humanities in Santa Monica, Calif. This was among the first collections of 20th-century material acquired by the center.
        In addition to her son, an art historian at the Institute of Fine Arts in Manhattan, Mrs. Brown is survived by another son, Robert, of Manhattan, a partner in the Reinhold Brown Gallery.
      