
        Carola Goya, an American-born Spanish dancer and a virtuoso castanet player, died early Sunday morning at her home in Manhattan. She was 88.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack in her sleep, said her niece, Victoria B. Smith of Kent, Conn.
        Ms. Goya, an authority on many idioms of Spanish dance, was noted for her ability to choreograph works that united traditional folk and flamenco steps with concert music by Spanish composers including Isaac Albeniz, Enrique Granados, Manuel de Falla and Joaquin Turina.
        She is believed to have been the first performer to treat castanets not simply as devices to enhance dancing, but also as solo instruments. As a castanet player, she appeared with the Detroit Symphony, the Kansas City Philharmonic, the Symphony of the Air and other ensembles. Her performances became, in effect, concertos for castanets and orchestra, and her repertory extended from Spanish pieces to compositions by Bach, Chopin and Auber. She once said, "Unlike a thing attached, the castanets should appear as part of the hand, as if born with the hand."
        Ms. Goya was a daughter of Samuel Weller, a personal representative for several New York actors. She adopted Goya as her professional name and later as her legal surname. She studied Spanish dance in New York and Madrid with many teachers, and ballet in New York with Michel Fokine and at the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School. After appearing with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet as a teen-ager, she made her debut as a Spanish dancer with a solo concert in New York in 1927.
        In the 1920's and 30's, she often toured with her sister, Beatrice Burford, a harpist. She danced before Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt in the White House at the Ambassadors' Banquet of 1936. As a member of the Jose Greco Dance Company, she toured Europe and North and South America from 1947 to 1951.
        In 1954, she formed a partnership with Matteo Vittucci, a dancer professionally known as Matteo; they were married in 1974. Together, they performed and taught extensively and, since 1967, directed the New York-based Foundation for Ethnic Dance. Ms. Goya also contributed articles to Dance Magazine and other publications.
        An elegant woman of stately demeanor, Ms. Goya was much in demand as a teacher and at her death was preparing to teach in Spain with her husband, who survives. Over the years, she was a faculty member at institutions including the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, the Connecticut College School of Dance and, in New York, the High School of Performing Arts and the American Theater Wing.
      