
        Julia Andrews Bissell, a patron of the arts and moving force in the restoration of the historic Kenmore mansion and museum in Fredericksburg, Va., died on Sunday at the Medical College of Georgia Hospital in Augusta. She was 87 and had homes in Chadds Ford, Pa., and Aiken, S.C.
        She had been ill for a long time, her family said.
        Mrs. Bissell, of the duPont family of Wilmington, Del., was also associated with the Winterthur Museum and Gardens near Wilmington. She was a past president and longtime member of the board of the Delaware Art Museum and a trustee of the Friends of American Art at Yale University.
        Her patronage of Kenmore, a pre-Revolutionary Georgian mansion and one of the country's foremost house museums, spanned more than half a century. It was the home of Fielding Lewis, whose wife, Betty, was George Washington's only sister.
        Kenmore, a rambling mansion, is noted for its interiors and period furnishings that are based on inventories taken in 1782 before the sale of the original contents. Over the years, Mrs. Bissell served as chairman of the collections and garden committees, chairman of the board of regents and, twice, as president of the board.
        According to Vernon Edenfield, director of Kenmore, "through her gifts the collections were enriched and through her vast knowledge the museum grew and thrived."
        In addition to her support for historic preservation, Mrs. Bissell was a noted horticulturist and expert in camellias, for which she won prizes at gardening competitions. Her winter home in Aiken, S.C. -- built in 1905 by her parents, James N. and Julia Sophie duPont Andrews -- is surrounded by woodland gardens.
        Mrs. Bissell's husband, Alfred E., died in 1975. She is survived by three daughters, Julia B. Leisenring of Berwyn, Pa., Antonia B. Laird of Chadds Ford and Susan B. Parker of Smith's Parish, Bermuda; a sister, Anne A. Black of Keswick, Va.; 15 grandchildren, and 20 great-grandchildren.
      