
        Sondra B. Gair, a veteran broadcast journalist best known for her public-affairs talk show on Chicago radio, died on Wednesday in Northwestern Memorial Hospital. She was 70 and lived in Chicago.
        She died of complications from breast cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Gair was the executive producer of an hourlong program of world news and public affairs on WBEZ-FM, the National Public Radio affiliate in Chicago. Airing weekdays since 1986, "Midday with Sondra Gair" was conceived by her as a way to cover breaking news as she interviewed political leaders and journalists and encouraged callers to give their views.
        Her topics ranged as widely as her selection of guests. She interviewed correspondents, policy experts and government leaders by telephone. She was respected for her fairness, for letting all sides have their say.
        "She had a particular gift of intimacy with her listeners," said Carole Nolan, general manager of WBEZ and a longtime friend. "Sondra called the world, from the king of Greece to cabdrivers."
        "Midday with Sondra Gair" went off the air in mid-March. In tribute, WBEZ fell silent for an hour yesterday after a brief eulogy by Ms. Nolan.
        Sondra Gair was born in Cicero, Ill., and grew up in Chicago. She studied speech, acting and journalism at Northwestern University, which proclaimed her "Alumna of the Year" in 1992.
        She began her radio career in the 1940's, appearing regularly in soap operas, dramas and comedy shows. But her interest in news reporting eventually made her to turn to broadcast journalism with on-site reports on the arts, politics and mores of England, China, the Netherlands, Mexico and Israel.
        She joined WBEZ in 1975 and conducted various interview shows before beginning the midday program for which she was best known.
        Ms. Gair is survived by a daughter, Patricia Sweeney of Kingston upon Thames, England; two sons, Judd Rose of Manhattan and Roger Rose of Los Angeles; her mother, Rose Gair of Chicago; a brother, Seymour Gair of suburban Chicago, and three grandchildren.
      