
        Anni Albers, a leading textile artist of the 20th century, died yesterday at her home in Orange, Conn., near New Haven. She was the widow of the abstract artist Josef Albers and was 94 years old.
        Mrs. Albers was cured of lymphoma 20 years ago and died of old age, said Dr. Samuel Bobrow, her physician.
        "From her earliest days as a student and master at the Bauhaus in the 1920's, Anni Albers was an explorer and form giver in textiles," said Jack Lenor Larsen, the New York designer and textile producer. "And in America, she continued in her role as a prophet, teacher and innovative weaver."  A Reluctant Weaver
        Mrs. Albers was the last surviving teacher at the Bauhaus, the German design school founded at Weimar in 1919, and closed by the Nazis in 1933. When she enrolled as a student at the Bauhaus in 1922, she hoped to study wall painting but became a weaver reluctantly, when no other workshop was available.
        After she received her diploma in 1930, Mrs. Albers and her husband, whom she had met at the Bauhaus and married in 1925, stayed on as teachers, he in design, she as a part-time instructor in textiles and as the acting director of the weaving workshop. When the Bauhaus moved to Berlin in 1932, they moved with it, and Josef Albers continued teaching while Mrs. Albers worked privately as a weaver.
        In 1933, after the Gestapo had padlocked the doors of the Bauhaus, Mrs. Albers met the architect Philip Johnson, then at the Museum of Modern Art, who was visiting Berlin and asked her if she and her husband wished to come to the United States. On his return to New York, he spoke with Edward Warburg, the art patron, who was assisting the founders of the Black Mountain College in North Carolina, a progressive school of the arts.  A Solo Exhibition
        Though they spoke no English, and did not know where North Carolina was, the Alberses went. From 1933 to 1939, she was an assistant professor of art at Black Mountain. In 1949, she became the first weaver to have a solo exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art, the museum which owns the finest collection of her works.
        Mrs. Albers's textiles reflected the Abstract style in painting in their geometric patterns and complex weaves. She used knotting and intertwining of linked threads to enrich the texture of her works. She also designed fabrics for Knoll International. Her 1926 designs for rugs are now being produced by Larsen Carpet. And her 1950's books, "On Weaving" and "On Designing," are considered a must for enthusiasts and students of design.
        When she was 70, Mrs. Albers gave up weaving and became a printmaker, at which she was prolific for more than a decade. She produced many editions for Tamarind Lithography Workshop and Gemini G.E.L., both of Los Angeles, and Tyler Graphics of Mount Kisco, N.Y.  A Cameo Role
        In her 80's, she made her debut in films in 1984, playing a cameo role looking at unedited film, in Maximilian Schell's "Marlene."
        Born in Berlin and named Annelise Fleischmann, she was the daughter of a prosperous furniture manufacturer. Mrs. Albers began her art studies as a teen-ager studying drawing and painting with Martin Brandenburg, an impressionist painter. She also attended the School of Applied Art in Hamburg before going to the Bauhaus.
        She is survived by her brother, Hans Farman of Old Greenwich, Conn.
      