
        Dr. Janet G. Woititz, a best-selling author, lecturer and counselor to the troubled offspring of alcoholics, died last Thursday at her home in Roseland, N.J. She was 55.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Dr. Woititz's "Adult Children of Alcoholics" offered insights into typical patterns in the families of alcoholics, like lack of self-esteem and difficulty relating to people.
        The trade paperback turned into something of a publishing phenomenon. Issued by Health Communications Inc. in 1983, the book won a grass-roots following and made best-seller lists around the country in 1986 and stayed on them for about a year.
        An expanded edition appeared in 1990. The book was translated into six foreign languages; the English version alone has sold 1.8 million copies.
        Another of her books, "Struggle for Intimacy" (1985), also reached best-seller lists, and has sold 900,000 copies. Doctorate from Rutgers
        Dr. Woititz was born in Great Neck, L.I., and graduated from Antioch College. She received an M.A. from Montclair State College, where she became an adjunct professor. Her doctorate in education was granted by Rutgers University in 1976. She taught during the summer at the Rutgers Center for Alcoholic Studies.
        She was the founder and president of the Institute for Counseling and Training of West Caldwell, N.J. The institute provides therapeutic counseling for people with family problems, overeating habits and other disorders.
        Dr. Woititz's other books include "Healthy Parenting: An Empowering Guide for Adult Children" (1992), "Lifeskills for Adult Children Workbook" (1991), "Healing Your Sexual Self" (1989), "The Self-Sabotage Syndrome: Adult Children in the Workplace" (1989), "Home Away From Home" (1987) and "Marriage on the Rocks" (1986), all in print. She also contributed to academic journals and lectured in this country and abroad.
        Dr. Woititz is survived by two sons, David, of West Orange, N.J., and Daniel, of Roseland; a daughter, Lisa Taub of Allentown, N.J.; two grandchildren, and her companion, Bernard Zweben.
      