
        Elizabeth Nitze Paepcke, who played a central role in transforming Aspen, Colo., from a largely abandoned 19th-century mining town into a winter resort, died on Wednesday at her home in Aspen. She was 91.
        She died of complications from a head injury she suffered in a fall last weekend, her family said.
        Mrs. Paepcke (pronounced PEP-keh) collaborated with -- and often inspired -- her husband, Walter, a Chicago industrialist, in the development of what was nearly a ghost town by the 1940's. Mr. Paepcke bought about half the town, then proceeded to rebuild it.
        The Paepckes helped open the International Design Conference in Aspen, the Aspen Music Festival and the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies. Mrs. Paepcke also founded the Aspen Center for Environmental Studies. Goethe Festival in 1949
        Modern Aspen was put on the cultural map in 1949 when Mr. Paepcke engaged the Budapest String Quartet for a concert to celebrate his wife's birthday. This led to the Goethe Bicentennial Festival, also in 1949, with Albert Schweitzer, the theologian, musician and medical missionary in Africa, making his only visit to the United States to address the festival at Mrs. Paepcke's suggestion.
        "In most ways Aspen is Elizabeth Paepcke," said David McLaughlin, president of the Aspen Institute, which holds seminars for leaders from various fields in the United States and overseas. "She and Walter created the institutions that gave vision and vitality to the community."
        Mrs. Paepcke was born in Baltimore and as a young woman worked as an interior designer in Chicago. She first saw Aspen while on a skiing vacation in 1938, when it had no amenities like ski runs or lifts.
        Once a rich silver-mining town with a population of 15,000, Aspen was largely dilapidated in the 1930's, but its natural setting and faded charm caused her to return in 1946 with her husband.
        Aspen, in west-central Colorado just west of the Sawatch Range of the Rocky Mountains, now has a year-round population of about 5,000. In recent years, Mrs. Paepcke expressed some disenchantment with the direction Aspen's "renaissance" had taken, with its emphasis on wealth and celebrity and its proliferation of boutiques and ski resorts.
        Mr. Paepcke, who headed the Container Corporation of America, died in 1960 at the age of 63.
        Mrs. Paepcke is survived by three daughters, Anina Hamilton of Sussex, England, Paula Zurcher of Woodside, Calif., and Antonia DuBrul of Manhattan; a brother, Paul H. Nitze of Washington, the longtime United States arms negotiator who is now retired; eight grandchildren, and two great-granddaughters.
      