
        Frances Corey, a fashion executive whose career of six decades began before the era of the flappers and took in space-age fabrics developed for astronauts, died on Thursday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 91.
        She suffered a brief illness, said Keven Bellows of Los Angeles, a family friend.
        Ms. Corey's working life began at the age of 19 when she opened a bookstore in the Annex of the Marshall Field department store in Chicago. She subsequently became director of fashion and advertising for Bloomingdale's in New York.
        Moving to Los Angeles in 1943, she was named sales-promotion and advertising manager of the May Company. She returned to New York in 1953 to join R. H. Macy & Company as an executive vice president -- the first woman to rise to that executive level at Macy's.
        Ms. Corey moved back to California in 1960 to head the West Coast office of Grey Advertising. Over the years, she also served as senior vice president of Catalina, a sportswear company based in Los Angeles, and as a merchandising and marketing consultant for Bullock's department stores.
        The space age entered her career when she was engaged as a consultant by a center at the University of Southern California that evaluated products developed for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. She advised the center about the commercial potential of the products and, with her husband, George Corey, founded Environmental Concepts Products to market them.
        In the 1970's and 1980's, she was associated with the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising in Los Angeles, lecturing and meeting weekly with students for career counseling. At a luncheon held in 1982 in a hall named after her, the institute honored her for her contributions.
        In 1956, Fortune magazine ranked her among the top businesswomen in the United States, and she won the National Retail Merchants Gold Medal for retailing twice.
        Ms. Corey is survived by a daughter, Mary Corey, and a granddaughter, both of Beverly Hills. Her husband died last year.
      