
        Marie Janis Emery, who directed school programs countrywide for exceptional and gifted American Indian children before she retired from the Bureau of Indian Affairs last month, died on Tuesday at her home in Centreville, Va. She was 64.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said.
        Mrs. Emery, an Oglala Sioux, spent 37 years in public service. She joined the bureau, a division of the Interior Department, in 1979 and most recently headed the branch that allocates money for exceptional pupils attending Indian schools.
        She was born on the Pine Ridge Reservation in the Badlands of South Dakota and received her undergraduate education at Bacone College in Muskogee, Okla. She studied education at Black Hills State College in Spearfish, S.D., graduating with honors, and took graduate courses at universities in the Midwest.
        In 1950, Mrs. Emery became the first member of the Oglala Sioux tribe to teach elementary school among the Oglalas. She taught at Indian schools in South Dakota and Montana until 1970, when she was recruited as an administrator of educational programs for what was then the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare. The programs she oversaw broke new ground in bilingual classroom instruction.
        Transferred to Washington as an education specialist in 1974, she administered bilingual and other programs designed for Indian children. This led to her move to the Bureau of Indian Affairs in 1979. At the time of her retirement last month she was the acting chief of the Branch of Exceptional Education, an office set up to benefit both disabled and especially talented children.
        Mrs. Emery is survived by her husband of 40 years, Charles E.; three daughters, Roxane G. Holmes and Jamie N. Emery, both of Centreville, and Robin E. Loring of Virginia Beach, Va.; three sons, Charles R., of Fayetteville, N.C., Randy B., of Centreville, and Ronald H., of Stafford, Va.; a brother, Sylvestor Janis of Kyle, S.D., and eight grandchildren.
      