
        Phyllis J. Shorenstein, a founder of the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco, died on Wednesday at the University of California at San Francisco Medical Center. She was 76 and lived in San Francisco.
        Mrs. Shorenstein had a heart ailment and died after a long illness, doctors said.
        The wife of Walter Shorenstein, a national real estate developer, Mrs. Shorenstein was also a substantial contributor to local charities and universities.
        Mayor Frank Jordan of San Francisco, in a tribute, said that Mrs. Shorenstein and her husband had contributed much to the city's cultural, social and civic life and had "consistently helped make this city a better place for all of us."
        Art, particularly Asian art, was an enduring interest in Mrs. Shorenstein's life. She joined with other San Franciscans to create the Asian Art Museum, which opened in Golden Gate Park in 1966. She served as a board member for many years and was one of the museum's 27 commissioners at her death. Gallery Named for Family
        She last visited the museum in May, when it opened an exhibition and named one of its four galleries of Japanese art in honor of the Shorenstein family. Although she was particularly devoted to Japanese and Chinese art, her tastes also extended to Western works. Her personal collection included both European and American art.
        Mrs. Shorenstein made frequent visits abroad in search of additions to the museum's collection, accompanied by Rand Castile, the museum's director. "She began at the Asian Art Museum at its beginning, and she was with us every step of the way," Mr. Castile said yesterday. In the last 20 years, the Shorenstein family has donated works from China, Japan, India, Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines and Turkey.
        With her family, Mrs. Shorenstein established the Joan Shorenstein Barone Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard University. The center was named in honor of her daughter, a journalist and radio news producer who died of cancer in 1986.
        Mrs. Shorenstein was born Phyllis Finley in Wellington, Kan., and attended Lone Mountain College in San Francisco.
        She was a volunteer ambulance driver at Travis Air Force Base when she met Walter Shorenstein, who was stationed there during World War II.
        Mr. Shorenstein became a leading commercial real estate developer and a prominent contributor to Democratic Party causes. She was not active in politics, but the Shorensteins frequently entertained political dignitaries, including Presidents Johnson, Carter and Clinton.
        She is survived by her husband of 49 years; two children, Carole Shorenstein-Hays and Douglas Shorenstein, both of San Francisco, and six grandchildren.
      