
        Joan Haslip, a British author known for her biographies of Marie Antoinette, Empress Elizabeth of Austria and other female blue bloods in history, died on June 19 in Bellosguardo outside Florence. She was 82 and lived in Bellosguardo.
        Summing up her career last week, The Times of London said, "As a writer, she had an eye for the romantic, the dramatic, the picturesque."
        Miss Haslip's 1988 book, "Marie Antoinette," about the French queen who was beheaded by revolutionaries in 1793, was praised in the United States as fully recognizing the queen's fascination while coolly detailing her many faults.
        That work was translated into 10 languages, as was Miss Haslip's 1965 book, "The Lonely Empress: A Biography of Elizabeth of Austria," whose beautiful protagonist was assassinated in 1898. That volume was lauded by one American critic as humane and readable, and also vivid "in conveying the effect of Elizabeth's looks." Recreating Lost Worlds
        In an interview late in her life, Miss Haslip, who also wrote well-received biographies of men, said that in a good work of historical biography, "a whole vanished world is brought back to life."
        In that interview, she went on to observe about the writing of a biography, "The whole venture follows the pattern of a love affair: initial infatuation, experience, disillusion, friendship, in that order!"
        Only one of her books is still in print: "Madame Du Barry: The Wages of Beauty" (Grove-Atlantic, 1992). Her other biographies of women included "Catherine the Great" (1977), "Lucrezia Borgia" (1954) and "Lady Hester Stanhope" (1936). And her biographies of men included "Imperial Adventurer" (1972), about the 19th-century Emperor Maximilian of Mexico, which was a Book-of-the-Month Club choice, and "Parnell" (1937) about Charles Stewart Parnell, the 19th-century Irish nationalist leader. She also wrote novels.
        Miss Haslip grew up in England and Florence and was privately educated. She was on the staff of The London Mercury, a literary magazine, from 1929 to 1939 and was an editor at the BBC from 1941 to 1945.
        She was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature.
        .
      