
        Dorothy Collins, a singing star of the popular 1950's television show "Your Hit Parade" and a Tony nominee for the Broadway show "Follies" in 1971, died on Thursday at her home in Watervliet, N.Y. She was 67.
        The cause was heart failure, said her daughter, Melissa Holgate.
        As a featured singer on "Your Hit Parade" from 1950 to 1957, Miss Collins was America's singing sweetheart, noted for her trademark high-necked blouses and such standard songs as "Too Young," "Shrimp Boats" and "Harbor Lights." The show was the television version of the long-running radio program "Lucky Strike Hit Parade" and featured the top tunes of the week performed by the show's cast in a variety of costumes and settings. Other members of the cast during Miss Collins's time included Snooky Lanson, Gisele MacKenzie, June Valli and Russell Arms.
        Miss Collins, whose original name was Marjorie Chandler, was born on Nov. 18, 1926 in Windsor, Ontario. Her first career thoughts were for secretarial work, but when her parents entered her in a talent show in 1938, she won a wristwatch and a chance to sing on a children's radio program in nearby Detroit. She was such a hit that she stayed with the show for some time. Met Her Mentor at 16
        In 1942, she was introduced to the band leader Raymond Scott, who advised her to take voice lessons for a year and then to sing for him again. She subsequently sang with his quintet and performed in jazz spots across the country. In 1949, Mr. Scott left his group to become director of the orchestra for the radio show "Your Hit Parade," and Miss Collins stayed on the road and ran the quintet. That meant doing the introductions as well as singing. Speaking Mr. Scott's lines, she was actually doing her first announcing.
        "It was quite a terrifying experience," she said in a 1953 interview, but it took her closer to the earnest commercials that were to contribute to her fame.
        She and Mr. Scott were married in 1952.
        Early in 1950, the American Tobacco Company, sponsor of "Your Hit Parade" for Lucky Strike cigarettes, was looking for a new type of advertising commercial. Mr. Scott was commissioned to write some jingles, which eventually gained nationwide popularity, and he had Miss Collins sing them. The sponsor liked her voice and personal appearance and when televising "Your Hit Parade" was broached, she was selected for four trial telecasts. Impressed by this cheerful woman who told people to get happy by smoking a particular cigarette, the sponsor signed her to do the commercials and to be a featured singer when the show began its official run in October 1950. Letters From the Clergy
        In a 1979 interview, Miss Collins was asked if she liked her girl-next-door image.
        "Yes, because that's me, and you can't be what you aren't," she replied. "I was very protected when I was growing up, and there's a lot that I don't know. When I was on 'Hit Parade,' the bulk of my mail was from priests and nuns. They used to do sermons on all the good I was doing for American womanhood."
        After "Your Hit Parade" went off the air, she did a stint on "'Candid Camera," from 1961 to 1963. In 1971 she was given a starring role in the Stephen Sondheim musical "Follies," singing one of the show's big songs, "Losing My Mind" and receiving a Tony nomination for her performance. She also had leading roles in stock companies and dinner-theater productions and gave concerts across the country. Plagued with asthma for years, she retired from performing in 1980.
        She was also active for many years in the Muscular Dystrophy Association, and became a vice president of the organization in 1988.
        Her two marriages, to Mr. Scott and to the singer Ron Holgate, ended in divorce.
        In addition to Ms. Holgate, who lives in Watervliet, she is survived by two other daughters, Elizabeth Adams, also of Watervliet, and Deborah Studebaker of Los Angeles, and five grandchildren.
      