
        Zelma Watson George, a sociologist, musicologist and performer who broke a color barrier on Broadway in 1950, died on Sunday at University Hospitals in Cleveland. A resident of Cleveland, she was 90.
        The cause was heart failure, said Raoul Abdul, a New York writer and longtime friend.
        Dr. George was a sought-after lecturer, a trained soprano and a leading researcher of African-American music. Her encounter with Broadway was brought about by the composer Gian Carlo Menotti for the 1950 production of "The Medium," a folk opera, at the Arena stage of the Hotel Edison.
        Dr. George had sung the opera's leading role of Madame Flora, a fraudulent spiritualist, at the dedication of the Karamu Lyric Theater in Cleveland the year before. 'Power and Imagination'
        That production was a black version of the 1946 Menotti work. Learning of her performance, the composer brought her to New York to sing the part in a white production. She was the first black woman to take a white role on Broadway.
        "She has great personal force," wrote Brooks Atkinson in The New York Times. "She sings with power and imagination."
        In 1960, President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed her as the only black member of the United States delegation to the 15th General Assembly of the United Nations. In the late 1960's, she was the executive director of the oldest Job Corps center in the United States, in Cleveland. The State Department once sent her on a six-month lecture tour around the world.
        Dr. George was born in Hearne, Tex., and graduated from the University of Chicago. She studied voice at the American Conservatory of Music in Chicago and pipe organ at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. She briefly worked as a social worker in Evanston and spent seven years as a probation officer in Chicago.
        From 1932 to 1937, she was the dean of women at Tennessee State University in Nashville. She then helped to organize the Avalon Community Center in Los Angeles and served as its executive director until she was named a Rockefeller Foundation research fellow in 1942. Studying Black Music
        Starting early in her career, Dr. George lectured on the cultural contributions of blacks. In 1935 she began her research on black music and started a lecture series on human relations.
        She returned to school to earn master's and doctoral degrees in sociology at New York University. Her Rockefeller grant enabled her to travel the country and cull data from libraries, private collections, cellars and attics. She spent six months in the Library of Congress alone.
        The result was her doctoral thesis, "A Guide to Negro Music: An annotated bibliography of Negro folk music and art music by Negro composers or based on Negro thematic material." It was a compendium of 12,163 titles; she donated the manuscript to Howard University.
        Dr. George sat on policy-making boards of the Girl Scouts of America, the American Red Cross, the League of Women Voters and the National Conference of Christians and Jews, among others.
        She was married to Clayborne George, a lawyer in Cleveland and a prominent Republican there. He died many years ago.
        Dr. George is survived by two sisters, A. Catherine Johnson of Massachusetts, and Vivian Edwards of Los Angeles, and a brother, Samuel E. J. Watson of Bangor, Mich.
      