
        Nina Stroganova, a Danish-born ballerina who was a founding member of American Ballet Theater and who became a noted dance teacher in New York City, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 78 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was leukemia, said her daughter, Ludmilla Dokoudovsky-Zalewski.
        Miss Stroganova, whose name was originally Rigmor Strom, received her early training in her native Copenhagen, although she never studied at the Royal Danish Ballet School. During the 1930's, when the cosmopolitan Ballets Russes troupes flourished in America and Western Europe, the Russian choreographer Leonide Massine suggested that Miss Strom should adopt Stroganova as a stage name. Inspiration for Masefield
        Another major Ballets Russes choreographer, Michel Fokine, coached her in some of his ballets, among them "Les Sylphides," which she danced with several companies. Her performances in that work inspired John Masefield, the poet laureate of England, to write a poem about her called "Sur les Pointes," in which he said:
        White, white, you pass, my sweet,
        Like dew on grass, my sweet,
        Like mankind's dream, my sweet.
        In 1937, Miss Stroganova joined the Mordkin Ballet, a New York company that served as the nucleus of Ballet Theater, as American Ballet Theater was originally known. She danced with Ballet Theater from its debut in 1940 until 1942, and again during the 1954-55 season.
        She performed the lyrical Waltz solo in an acclaimed production of "Les Sylphides," supervised by Fokine, which was the opening work on the company's opening night. That season, she was also featured in the American premiere of Antony Tudor's tragic "Dark Elegies."
        Miss Stroganova was a ballerina for Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes, from 1942-47 and again in 1951 and 1952. She made a triumphant return to Copenhagen in 1950 as the first Danish dancer trained outside that company's school to be a guest star with it. Demanding Teacher
        Miss Stroganova, an effervescent, birdlike woman, taught at several New York schools; in recent years, she had her own studio in the City Center building. She was known as a demanding and keenly observant teacher. Yet her warmth and enthusiasm made her classes encouraging as well as challenging.
        Miss Stroganova's marriage to Vladimir Dokoudovsky, also a ballet teacher, ended in divorce.
        In addition to her daughter, of St. Louis, she is survived by her companion, Kenneth MacKenzie.
        Memorial services are to be held at 10 A.M. on Wednesday at St. Peter's Church, 54th Street and Lexington Avenue.
      