
        Alice Childress, an actress and a writer of plays and novels, including "A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich," died on Sunday at Astoria General Hospital in Queens. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said her husband, Nathan Woodard.
        In 1973, in a review of "A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich" in The New York Times, the playwright Ed Bullins wrote: "There are too few books that convince us that reading is one of the supreme gifts of being human. Alice Childress, in her short, brilliant study of a 13-year-old black heroin user, achieves this feat in a masterly way."
        In the mid-1970's, the book was at the center of a controversy when a Long Island school district banned it and works by Kurt Vonnegut Jr., Langston Hughes and others on the grounds that they contained obscenities and other material considered offensive. Ms. Childress adapted her novel for a 1978 film that starred Cicely Tyson and Paul Winfield.
        Among her other books were "Rainbow Jordan," "Those Other People," "When the Rattlesnake Sounds," "Let's Hear It for the Queen," "Like One of the Family" and "A Short Walk." 'Wedding Band'
        One of her plays was "Wedding Band," an interracial love story set in Charleston, S.C., at the time of World War I. Ms. Childress wrote the play in 1965 but was unable to find a New York producer until the New York Shakespeare Festival presented it in 1972. In a review of a 1979 production of the play, Richard Eder wrote in The Times that the ideas in "Wedding Band" were "like wildflowers growing in their own ground; not, as in works of less art, like cut flowers sorted and offered by the dozen at a florist shop." ABC later produced the play for television, but eight of the network's affiliates declined to carry the show because of its theme and earthy dialogue.
        Her other plays included "Florence," "Gold Through the Trees," "Just a Little Simple," "Trouble in Mind," "String" and "Mojo." With Mr. Woodard, she wrote musicals including "Young Martin Luther King," "Sea Island Song," "Gullah" and "Moms (A Praise Play for a Black Comedienne)," about Jackie (Moms) Mabley.
        Ms. Childress was born in Charleston on Oct. 12, 1916. Before she turned to writing, she was an actress with the American Negro Theater, and acted in the original company of "Anna Lucasta." At the time of her death, she was working on a novel for young adults about her African great-grandmother, a slave until the age of 12, and her Scotch-Irish great-grandmother.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a granddaughter, Marilyn Alice Lee of Brooklyn.
      