
        Nancy Lancaster, an American-born socialite who had been an international influence on interior and garden design since the 1920's, died on Friday at her home near Little Haseley, Oxfordshire, England. She was 96.
        She died in her sleep after a brief illness, said her daughter-in-law, Lady Anne Tree.
        A native of Virginia who moved to England in 1926, Nancy Lancaster was instrumental in creating what is popularly known as the English-country look. This school of interior decoration is characterized by sun-bleached chintz, vibrant wall colors, a casual mix of furniture from various historical periods and an atmosphere of disheveled coziness. John Fowler, Mrs. Lancaster's partner in the London design firm of Colefax & Fowler, called it "pleasing decay."
        According to Robert Becker, whose biography of Mrs. Lancaster is to be published by Alfred A. Knopf next year, it was an esthetic fueled by memories of Southern plantation houses that had fallen into romantic disrepair after the Civil War. Among these was her grandfather's estate, Mirador, near Charlottesville. 'An Abstract Nostalgia'
        "It was an abstract nostalgia that was particularly appealing to the British upper classes," Mr. Becker said. "Thanks to two world wars, they were losing their way of life, too, just as the Virginians had."
        Born in 1897, Nancy Keene Perkins was a daughter of Lizzie Langhorne and T. Moncure Perkins, a meatpacking executive. Orphaned at the age of 15, she was raised by her aunt, Irene Langhorne Gibson, a celebrated beauty who was the original Gibson Girl, a symbol of American womanhood at the turn of the century. Another Langhorne aunt was Nancy, Viscountess Astor, the first woman elected to the House of Commons.
        Though Mrs. Lancaster was co-owner of Colefax & Fowler from 1944 to the mid-1980's, she was not a professional decorator. "I'm agin decoratin'," she once said in a Tidewater drawl that remained undimmed after more than 65 years away from home. "I'm a percolator of ideas." The appearance of her own homes -- notably her London apartment's butter-yellow drawing room, completed in 1958 -- inspired generations of designers in Europe and the United States. Her followers include Sister Parish, Mark Hampton and Mario Buatta.
        "She brought American vitality to stuffy British houses, which often looked like museums," Mr. Buatta said. "After Nancy blew into town, England loosened up and started looking more personal and lived-in." Cultivator of Roses
        Mrs. Lancaster also revived interest in old-fashioned roses, which she cultivated at Ditchley Park, a 3,000-acre estate in Oxfordshire that was her home from 1933 to 1947. One of her last homes, Haseley Court, was the subject of a 1993 BBC television documentary, "An Englishwoman's Garden." She also advised on the restoration of Stratford Hall, a Virginia home of a relative, Robert E. Lee.
        Nancy Lancaster's first husband was Henry Field, a grandson of Marshall Field, the department-store magnate. He died in 1918, six months after their wedding. Two years later, she married another Field grandson, Ronald Lambert Tree, who later became a Conservative member of Parliament. They divorced in 1947. She later wed another British politician, Col. Claud G. Lancaster. That marriage also ended in divorce.
        Sought after by leading artists and photographers -- John Singer Sargent, Cecil Beaton, Baron De Meyer and Horst P. Horst all paid homage -- Mrs. Lancaster was a popular hostess for guests from American diplomats to the King and Queen of England.
        Between 1940 and 1942, Winston Churchill spent many weekends at Ditchley Park, which was considered safer from Axis bombers than the Prime Minister's official country residence, Chequers.
        In addition to her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Lancaster is survived by a son, Michael Tree; a sister, Alice Winn; and two granddaughters, all of London.
      