
        Danitra Vance, an actress and performance artist who appeared in "The Colored Museum" and "Spunk" at the New York Shakespeare Festival, died on Sunday at the home of her grandfather, Clarence M. Edwards, in Markham, Ill. She was 35 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was breast cancer, said her companion, Jones Miller.
        Once described as a cross between Laurie Anderson and Little Richard, Ms. Vance appeared in feature films and in 1985 became the first black woman to join the regular cast of "Saturday Night Live."
        But it was through her association with George C. Wolfe, the playwright and director who is now the producer of the New York Shakespeare Festival, that Ms. Vance was best known to theatergoers. In "Spunk," Mr. Wolfe's 1990 adaptation of stories by Zora Neale Hurston, she demonstrated "exceptional range in playing a trio of women who are in turn worn to the bone, full of sass and aglow with innocence," wrote Frank Rich in The New York Times. Ms. Vance received an Obie Award for her performance.
        Ms. Vance was born in Chicago. She attended the National College of Education in Evanston, Ill.; Roosevelt College in Chicago, from which she graduated with honors, and the Webber-Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art in London. After performing with the Second City comedy troupe in Chicago, she moved to New York in 1981, where she became an Off Broadway success with her 1985 revue "Danitra Vance and the Mell-o White Boys." In it, she created a range of comic characters including a ghetto Shakespearean actress, a feminist stripper and a genteel "lesbian recruiter."
        Ms. Vance last appeared at the Public in the spring as the guardian angel in Jose Rivera's "Marisol." After breast cancer was diagnosed in 1990, she used her experience of the illness in a performance piece called "The Radical Girl's Guide to Radical Mastectomy." "Pre-Shrunk," an autobiographical show in which she expanded on this material, was scheduled at the Public Theater last season, but Ms. Vance was unable to perform.
        In addition to Ms. Miller and Mr. Edwards, Ms. Vance is survived by her mother, Laura Vance of Chicago, and a sister, Latrice Lee, of Markham.
      