
        Dr. Marion F. Langer, a former executive director of the American Orthopsychiatric Association and an expert on widowhood, died on Wednesday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 85.
        The cause was cancer, said Karen Kun of the association's staff.
        Dr. Langer, who had a Ph.D. in sociology from New York University, was on the boards of the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, in Washington, and the National Coalition Against Censorship.
        She was the orthopsychiatric association's executive director from 1953 until she retired in 1988. The association, which has its headquarters in Manhattan, was founded in 1924 by Karl Menninger (1893-1990), the psychiatrist, and others to advance a preventive approach to treating mental illness. Orthopsychiatry offers treatment through a collaborative approach involving such fields as psychiatry, psychology, psychiatric social work and other sciences.
        Her writings included a book, "Learning to Live as a Widow," published in 1957. In an interview in 1963, she said that widows usually blame their husbands for dying, although that feeling is irrational.
        "Unlike the divorcee, who is expected freely to express her resentment toward her former spouse, the widow is not supposed to be angry," Dr. Langer said. As a result, she said, feelings of anger are repressed and affect the widow's social relationships.
        Dr. Langer was born and raised in Newburgh, N.Y. and studied at Smith College and elsewhere before receiving her Ph.D. in 1949. She was assistant director of the Child Study Association of America before going to the Orthopsychiatric Association.
        Over the years, she taught at City College, New York University, the Hunter College School of Social Work and elsewhere.
        She married Julius Rosenberg, a lawyer, in 1940; he died in 1948. Her 1957 marriage, to Samuel Gruber, also a lawyer, ended in divorce in 1973.
        Dr. Langer is survived by a son, Seth Rosenberg of Chatham, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      