
        Rosa Chacel, a Spanish writer of complex, intellectual novels and poetry, who was in exile during most of the Franco era, died on Wednesday in the Ramon y Cajal Hospital in Madrid. She was 96 and lived in Madrid.
        The cause was heart and lung failure, hospital officials said.
        An English translation of one of her most widely read novels, "Memoirs of Leticia Valle," won praise when it was published earlier this year by the University of Nebraska Press in a translation by Carol Maier, a professor of Spanish at Kent State University. The work originally appeared in Spanish 49 years ago in Buenos Aires.
        Susan Kirkpatrick, a professor of Spanish at the University of California at San Diego, wrote, in the preface to her translation of Miss Chacel's novel "The Maravillas District," which was published in 1992 by the University of Nebraska Press: "Chacel's writing is dense and labyrinthine, but at the same time it is open-ended and dynamic, shaping a narrative design that ends with a query instead of a conclusion."
        Miss Chacel (pronounced cha-THELL) was born in Valladolid, in north-central Spain, on June 3, 1898. She studied art in Madrid and spent six years in Rome, where she wrote her first novel, "Season of Departure and Return," which was published in Spain in 1930.
        In 1938, as Gen. Francisco Franco drew close to victory in the Spanish Civil War, she fled to South America, where dozens of Spanish intellectuals were in exile. She left Spain largely because her husband, Timoteo Perez Rubio, had been active on the Republican side, and her sympathies were also with the Republic. She spent her 36 years in exile mainly in Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro.
        From 1959 to 1961, Miss Chacel was in New York City on a Guggenheim Fellowship and wrote a book of literary and philosophical essays, "Saturnalia," which was published in 1972. Over the years, she wrote more than a dozen books, including novels and volumes of poetry and of essays. She returned to Spain in the early 1970's, not long before Franco's death.
        In the weeks before her death, while Miss Chacel was in the hospital, she was awarded Spain's Gold Medal for Fine Arts by King Juan Carlos.
        Miss Chacel's husband died in 1977. She is survived by a son, Carlos Perez Chacel.
        Correction:  August 4, 1994, Thursday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Rosa Chacel, a Spanish novelist, misidentified the author of the English translation of her book "The Maravillas District," published in 1992 by the University of Nebraska Press. It was translated by D. A. Demers, not Susan Kirkpatrick.
      