
        Shirley M. Ehrenkranz, for nearly two decades the dean of New York University's School of Social Work, died yesterday at her home in South Orange, N.J. She was 73.
        The cause was cancer, said a university spokeswoman.
        Dr. Ehrenkranz, who was credited with enhancing the school's national reputation, joined its staff in 1966 and became its dean in 1977. In her more than 17 years as dean, the school became one of the largest schools of social work in the nation, enrolling more than 1,000 students in undergraduate and graduate programs.
        Under her leadership, the school also pioneered the holistic approach to clinical social work and became the first institution in the New York metropolitan area to offer a doctorate in clinical social work.
        In recognition of her contributions, New York University had announced that the school would be renamed the Shirley M. Ehrenkranz School of Social Work. Jay Oliva, president of the university, said yesterday that there would be a renaming ceremony on Sept. 19. Was a Former Caseworker
        Dr. Ehrenkranz received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College, master's degrees in English from Temple University, in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr College and in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, and a doctorate in social welfare from Columbia University.
        Before joining New York University, she served as a field instructor at the Rutgers University Graduate School of Social Work and a research assistant at the Columbia University School of Social Work. She was also a caseworker and case supervisor in agencies for families and children. She was president of the New York State Association of Deans in 1980-81 and 1988-89.
        She is survived by her husband, Fred Kasoff; two daughters, Pamela Ehrenkranz of New York City and Jean LeGrand of Chicago; a sister, Babette Cohen of Rosyln Heights, L.I., and 16 grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 27, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Shirley M. Ehrenkranz, dean of New York University's School of Social Work, omitted a survivor. He is her son, Dr. Joel Ehrenkranz of New Vernon, N.J.
      