
        Valerie Worth Bahlke, a poet and novelist for young readers, died on Sunday at her home in Clinton, N.Y. She was 60.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Mrs. Bahlke, who wrote under her maiden name, Valerie Worth, had many interests, from astronomy to gardening to meditation, which became the subject matter she wove into her poetry. She sought to present ordinary things in a fresh way.
        She was most widely known for her "small poems" for children, composed in simple free verse. The poet and teacher Myra Cohn Livingston wrote of Ms. Worth's work in The New York Times Book Review in 1988, "The treasures Ms. Worth offers do not lie in some distant, golden land but in the everyday world." For example, of a safety pin, Ms. Worth wrote:
        Closed, it sleeps
        On its side
        Quietly,
        The silver
        Image
        Of some
        Small fish;
        Opened, it snaps
        Its tail out
        Like a thin
        Shrimp, and looks
        At the sharp
        Point with a
        Surprised eye.
        In 1991, the National Council of Teachers of English honored her with its Poetry Award for Excellence in Poetry for Children, given for a body of work.
        It was only one of many such citations she garnered over the years. Since the 1950's, her poems have been included in numerous anthologies. She also wrote fiction for adults and young people. 'Small Poems' by the Volume
        She was born in Philadelphia and lived in Swarthmore, Pa., Tampa, Fla., and Bangalore, India, when her father, a biologist at Swarthmore College, was asked to go to India to study malaria. She graduated from Swarthmore in 1955.
        After settling in Clinton, she joined an informal writing group at Kirkland College and met Natalie Babbitt, an author and illustrator who then furnished the black-and-white drawings for her work, starting with "Small Poems" in 1972. Three more volumes followed, in 1976, 1978 and 1985, and all four appeared in a single paperback in 1987.
        Her other books included "The Crone's Book of Words" (1971) and "The Crone's Book of Wisdom" (1988); "Curlicues: The Fortunes of Two Pug Dogs" (1980), and two novels for young adults, "Gypsy Gold" (1983) and "Fox Hill" (1986).
        Another book of her verses for children, "At Christmastime," was published two years ago. Much of her work remains in print, and at her death she had completed two more such collections of all-new poems. They are scheduled for publication by HarperCollins in 1995 and 1996.
        She is survived by her husband, George W. Bahlke; a son, Conrad D., of Hoboken, N.J.; two daughters, Catherine B. Hornstein of Brooklyn and Margaret B. Diskin of West Chester, Pa.; two brothers, Michael Worth of Swarthmore and Douglas Worth of Newton, Mass., and a granddaughter.
      