
        Jessie Sumner, an Illinois Republican who was the first woman elected to a county judgeship in her state and a conservative member of Congress from 1939 to 1947, died on Wednesday in Iroquois Memorial Hospital in Watseka, Ill. She was 96 and lived in nearby Milford.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said Donna Rae Mann, Miss Sumner's assistant.
        At her death, Miss Sumner was the president of Sumner National Bank, in Sheldon, Ill., which was founded by her father, Aaron Taylor Sumner. She took the post in 1966.
        Miss Sumner was born on a farm in Iroquois County, Ill., grew up in that county and graduated from Smith College in 1920. She studied law at the University of Chicago and at Oxford and Columbia Universities. She worked as a lawyer in Chicago, New York and Milford.
        In 1937, she became a judge in Iroquois County before being elected to the House of Representatives in 1938. She held the view, shared by many in her district in east-central Illinois, that the United States should not get involved in the war that was brewing in Europe.
        After being elected to the House, she became nationally known as a foe of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and of his New Deal program and other policies. "What do I think of President Roosevelt?" she once asked, and then said she had come "to bury Caesar, not to praise him."
        After World War II began in Europe in 1939, she found herself in a minority in Congress in voting against expanding the Navy. She was also among more than 100 representatives who voted, only months before the attack on Pearl Harbor, against extending the draft for a year.
        After the United States entered the war in 1941, she criticized the country's allies, the conduct of the war, and Roosevelt Administration measures on the home front. She gained attention for her opposition to the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, which cared for refugees in Europe after the war, saying that if it was humanitarian, "so is keeping a gigolo."
        Miss Sumner decided not to run for re-election in 1946. She then resumed practicing law in Milford and helped manage her family's insurance company, grain elevators and farms, in addition to the bank.
        Survivors include a nephew, three nieces, six great-nephews and a great-niece.
      