
        Felisa Rincon de Gautier, Mayor of San Juan, P.R., from 1946 to 1969 and the only woman to hold that post, died on Friday in a nursing home in San Juan, where she had lived in recent months. She was 97.
        She died after suffering a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        She was appointed Mayor in 1946 to replace an incumbent who had resigned, and she was elected to office in later years. Running for another four-year term in 1964, she said, "After this term I want to lead my own life," and she did not run for re-election in 1968. Her other political work included membership on the Democratic National Committee.
        Even before she became Mayor, Mrs. Rincon de Gautier, widely known as Dona Fela, worked on behalf of social causes, including the campaign to win Puerto Rican women the right to vote, which succeeded in 1932.
        It was then that she went into politics, going on to press for child-care programs, centers for the elderly and legal aid for the poor. Her political power came in large part from the support of the city's poor residents, whom she organized within her Popular Democratic Party.
        She worked hard to please the electorate. "My opponents campaign just before elections and then they disappear," she once said. "I start campaigning the day after the election and never stop."
        She was also good at political repartee. After detractors said she had given city jobs to too many of her relatives, she replied: "I wish I had 20 more nieces. They work better -- for less."
        As Mayor, she had a highly personal style that included enchanting local children by flying in planeloads of snow for Christmas parties. She maintained that personal touch even as San Juan grew, from a population of 180,000 when she first took office to 600,000 by 1961, when she was still meeting once a week with residents who needed advice or assistance.
        But she also attended to larger matters, like public works. She was proud of having provided the city with well-equipped and hospitably managed dispensaries, as well as new schools and housing projects with nurseries and other amenities.
        After stepping down as Mayor, she maintained her interest in politics. In 1992, at the age of 95, she was the oldest delegate to the Democratic National Convention, which was held in New York.
        The eldest of eight children of a lawyer, she was born in Ceiba, 33 miles southeast of San Juan. She had to leave school at age 15 to care for her siblings.
        Early in her life, she was a supporter of independence for Puerto Rico, but her views changed, and she went on to support the United States Commonwealth Constitution that came into effect in 1952.
        In 1940, she married Jenaro A. Gautier, a lawyer who was secretary general of the Popular Democratic Party at the time. He died in 1971.
      