
        Barbara Fassbinder, one of the first health care professionals to be infected with the AIDS virus while on the job, died on Tuesday at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics in Iowa City. She was 40 and lived in Monona, Iowa.
        The cause was complications from AIDS, the hospital said.
        Mrs. Fassbinder was infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, in 1986 while helping treat a patient in the emergency room of Memorial Hospital in Prairie du Chien, Wis.
        While she was pressing gauze on a needle puncture, the patient's blood apparently mingled with her blood through small cuts on her hand from gardening, she said in 1990. The young man died, and an autopsy showed he had AIDS. But it was not until January 1987, when she tried to make a blood donation, that she discovered she had been infected.
        She and her family kept the infection a secret until she decided to speak out in 1990. "My biggest fear was how the community would react to me and my kids and my husband," she said at a news conference in Iowa City in which she told her story in the hope that it would warn other health-care workers. The 1,500 people of Monona, a farming community in northeastern Iowa, gave her family "nothing but support," she said at the time.
        Dr. Michael Osterholm, an AIDS expert and epidemiologist with the Minnesota Department of Health who became a friend of her family, said she "helped bridge the gap between the worlds of the health care provider and the AIDS patient in need of competent and compassionate care like no one else could."
        Mrs. Fassbinder traveled extensively, talking to people about AIDS and how to prevent infection by H.I.V., Dr. Osterholm said. She testified about AIDS before Congress, and in 1992 she was recognized by the Surgeon General and the Department of Health and Human Services for her work.
        A native of Marion, Ohio, she also served on the National Health Care Reform Committee set up by Hillary Rodham Clinton and was a member of the Iowa State Commission on AIDS, Dr. Osterholm said.
        She is survived by her husband, David; two daughters, Eva and Emily, and a son, Joel, all of Monona; her parents, James and Ethel Herring, of Marion, Iowa; three sisters, Kathryn Fassbinder, of Elgin, Iowa, Mary Walston of Kewaunee, Wis., and Susan Valleire of Rock Island, Ill.; four brothers, J. Stephen Herring of Idaho Falls, Idaho, Edward Herring, of Rockford, Ill., Mark Herring, of Manitowoc, Wis., and John Herring of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and a grandmother, Martha McElroy of Creston, Iowa.
      