
        Louise Averill Svendsen, an art historian and former curator and administrator at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, died sometime last week at her home in Manhattan. Her body was found on Monday by the superintendent of the building in which she lived. She was 78.
        She died of natural causes, said her brother, Roswell Averill of St. Simons Island, Ga.
        Mrs. Svendsen, who was born in Old Town, Me., in 1915, majored in art at Wellesley College. She earned a Ph.D. from Yale University, writing her dissertation on John Vanderlind, a 19th-century American painter. In 1950, she married Thoralf Svendsen, a Norweigen diplomat. He died in 1983.
        In the 1940's and early 50's, Mrs. Svendsen taught art history at Duke University, Goucher College and American University. In 1954, she was hired as a lecturer at the Guggenheim by James Johnson Sweeney, the museum's first director. At the time, the museum's famous Frank Lloyd Wright building on Fifth Avenue was under construction. During the late 1950's, Mrs. Svendsen played an important role in the museum's transition to its new home, helping in the organization of departments and galleries. She also edited the first handbook for the museum's collection; it was published in 1959 on the inauguration of the new building. 'Yankee Integrity'
        Reached by telephone yesterday, Ward Jackson, the Guggenheim's archivist, praised Mrs. Svendsen for a "Yankee integrity that you found in legendary figures like Alfred Barr and Lloyd Goodrich," referring to the former directors of the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art.
        At the Guggenheim, Mrs. Svendsen was successively appointed curator of education, associate curator, curator and, in 1978, senior curator. She devoted most of her time to overseeing the museum's collection. In addition, she organized retrospectives of Edvard Munch (1965), Ilya Bolotowsky (1974), Alberto Giacometti (1974) and Paul Klee (1977), as well as a show titled "Rousseau, Redon and Fantasy" (1968). In addition to her catalogue texts she wrote "Klee at the Guggenheim" (1977).
        Upon her retirement in 1982, Mrs. Svendsen was named curator emeritus. Over the last decade, she worked as a consultant at Sotheby's in the department of Impressionist and modern paintings.
        In addition to her brother, she is survived by a sister, Caroline Averill Rogers, of Patten, Me.
      