
        Margaret Brown Klapthor, an expert on White House history and a former department chairman at the Smithsonian Institution, died on Monday at her home in Washington. She was 72.
        The cause was stomach cancer, said a son, Paul Edward Klapthor of Sumter, S.C.
        Mrs. Klapthor retired from the Smithsonian in 1983. She first went to work there as a scientific aide in 1943, and rose through the curatorial ranks in its divisions of civil and political history, becoming curator of the Smithsonian's First Ladies collection and chairman of the institution's department of national and military history.
        Among her writings is the historical text in "The First Ladies Cook Book: Favorite Recipes of All the Presidents of the United States," an illustrated volume of historical lore and recipes. It was published for Parents' Magazine Press in 1965, and went through several editions.
        The book was praised by Craig Claiborne, then the food critic for The New York Times, who called it "perhaps the most comprehensive and detailed volume ever written" about "what American Presidents and their wives have dined on."
        It reported, for example, that Ulysses S. Grant personally selected the wines to be served at formal dinners, "though his own glass was usually turned down"; that Chester A. Arthur was an epicure who savored fine wines, and that William McKinley's taste ran to fried potatoes, bacon and eggs, johnnycakes and cherry pie.
        Mrs. Klapthor also wrote "First Ladies" (sixth edition 1990, White House Historical Society) and was a co-author, with her father, Paul D. Brown, of "The History of Charles County, Maryland," in 1958.
        She gave lectures on White House history that detailed the occupants' idiosyncrasies, like Dolley Madison's conversational icebreaker of reading a passage from whatever book she was carrying at the time.
        In the 1950's, when Mrs. Klapthor was in charge of the gowns of White House hostesses, she discovered Dolley Madison's inauguration gown, which had been kept by heirs. She traced it to the William Rockwell Nelson Gallery of Art in Kansas City, Mo., and the gallery then sent it to the Smithsonian on indefinite loan.
        As associate curator in the division of political history, Mrs. Klapthor assembled a Smithsonian collection of White House china in connection with her creation of First Ladies Hall, a modernized setting for the Smithsonian's First Ladies costume collection.
        Sometimes she talked about more recent First Ladies. In 1988, commenting on reports of summit talk tiffs between Nancy Reagan and Raisa M. Gorbachev, the wife of the Soviet leader, Mrs. Klapthor said in an interview in The Times, "It struck me as something that had been manufactured by the press."
        Mrs. Klapthor was born in Henderson, Ky., reared in Charles County and graduated from the University of Maryland.
        In the last 21 years she suffered from rheumatoid arthritis, and was confined to a wheelchair for the last two years. Her husband, Frank Edward Klapthor, died earlier this year.
        Besides her son Paul, she is survived by another son, Carlson Brown Klapthor of Washington; a daughter, Frances Andrews of Baltimore; a sister, Mary Berry Moore of Port Tobacco, Md., and four grandchildren.
      