
        Mildred McAfee Horton, who helped revolutionize the role of women in the military as the first director of the WAVES, died on Friday at the St. Vincent DePaul Nursing Home in Berlin, N.H. She was 94.
        Under her stewardship of the WAVES (an acronym for Women Accepted for Voluntary Emergency Service), navy women in World War II worked as flight instructors, weather observers, truck drivers and air traffic controllers. The service paved the way for the expanding role of women in the armed services.
        After the war, Mrs. Horton continued to be an outspoken advocate for improving the position of women in the military. In one speech, she criticized the "folly of a national policy of discussing manpower in a national emergency as though it were only male power," adding that such an attitude put women in the "category of a national luxury instead of a national asset."
        Mrs. Horton was born in Parkville, Mo., and graduated from Vassar College in 1920. In 1923, she began teaching economics and sociology at Tusculum College in Tennessee, and in 1934 she became dean of women at Oberlin College. Was President of Wellesley
        Mrs. Horton became president of Wellesley College in 1936, and in 1942 took a leave of absence to organize the WAVES. By the time she finished her tour of duty, in 1946, she had risen to the rank of captain and had been awarded a Distinguished Service Medal.
        She returned to her position at Wellesley, where she remained until 1949.
        Mrs. Horton also served as president of the American Association of Colleges and was on the boards of the NBC and RCA. She was also vice president of the National Council of Churches.
        In 1945, she married the Rev. Douglas Horton, who became Dean of Harvard Divinity School in 1955. He died in 1968.
        She is survived by four stepchildren: Margaret H. Grant of Chicago; Alan W. Horton of Randolph, N.H.; Alice H. Tibbetts of Madison, Wis., and Elizabeth H. Breunig of Appleton, Wis.
      