
        Joy Ungerleider-Mayerson, a former director of the Jewish Museum in Manhattan and a philanthropist, died on Wednesday at her home in Larchmont, N.Y. She was 74.
        The cause was cancer, said her son Andrew Ungerleider.
        At her death, Mrs. Ungerleider-Mayerson was president of the Dorot Foundation, whose interests include biblical archeology and Jewish education. She was also the chairman of the Albright Institute for archeological research in Jerusalem and served on the boards of other cultural and educational institutions. She was the director of the museum, on Fifth Avenue at 92d Street, from 1972 to 1980, after being a curator there from 1967 to 1969.
        In 1971, criticized for neglect of its Judaica collection and facing a substantial deficit, the museum's board decided that the institution should devote itself to "a commitment to the Jewish community." The museum was shut during that year, and Mrs. Ungerleider-Mayerson has been praised as having subsequently rescued it from its doldrums. She shifted the museum's focus from art to Jewish culture, instituting a strong education program and creating popular exhibitions on the subject of Israel and biblical archeology.
        As a philanthropist, Mrs. Ungerleider-Mayerson was instrumental in providing support, through family foundations, for the New York Public Library. She was the author of one book, "Jewish Folk Art from the Biblical Period to Modern Times" (1986) and the co-author of another, "The Museums of Israel" (Abrams, 1989).
        Mrs. Ungerleider-Mayerson, who was born in Lawrence, L.I., received a B.A. from New York University in 1942 and a master's degree in Hebrew Studies from New York University in 1971. She was married to Samuel Ungerleider in 1945; he died in 1972.
        In addition to her sons Andrew, of Los Angeles, and Peter, of Manhattan, she is survived by another son, Dr. Steven Ungerleider of Eugene, Ore.; three daughters, Jeane Ungerleider-Springer of Boston, Miriam Mayerson-Michael of Manhattan and Clare Benac-Mayerson of Paris; two sisters, Celeste G. Bartos of Manhattan and Miriam G. Wallach of Scarsdale, N.Y., and seven grandchildren
      