
        Sister Parish, the acclaimed and enduring American interior decorator who began her career when she was a young Depression-era mother and later came to redesign rooms of the White House during the Kennedy Administration, died on Thursday at her home in Dark Harbor, Maine. She was 84 and also had a home in New York City.
        She had suffered a lengthy illness, said Dorothy B. Gilbert, one of her daughters.
        Mrs. Parish's six decades of decorating epitomized the rise of women in her own and other professions in 20th-century America. The one-room business she founded in 1933 in Far Hills, N.J., evolved into the noted decorating firm of Parish-Hadley Associates, based in Manhattan, whose designs consistently exuded quality.
        The anxious 23-year-old of 1933 -- whose nursery nickname had replaced her seldom-used given name, Dorothy -- went on to become a force in forming and articulating tastes in interior design. Vogue magazine once said she was "the most famous of all living women interior designers, whose ideas have influenced life styles all over America." 'Patrician Aplomb'
        John Richardson, an art historian, wrote in 1989, "No one else in America does a room with such patrician aplomb, such life-enhancing charm, such a lack of gimmickry or trendiness."
        With a profile that seemed carved from the Maine coastline, her longtime home and design influence, Mrs. Parish was a strong traditionalist. "What seems important to me is permanence, comfort and a look of continuity in the design and decoration of a house," she once observed. "The happiest times of my life are associated with beautiful, familiar things and family."
        She and her firm became known for the low-keyed handsomeness of their work and for their well-heeled and relatively conservative clientele. It included President and Mrs. John F. Kennedy; the philanthropists Brooke Astor and Enid Annenberg Haupt; William S. Paley, the chairman of CBS, and members of the Bronfman, Getty, Mellon, Rockefeller, Vanderbilt and Whitney clans.
        In 1988, one of Queen Elizabeth II's daughters-in-law, the Duchess of York, asked the firm to design the interior of the ducal couple's new house near Windsor Castle. But the assignment was eventually switched to a British designer, and the British press reported that the Queen thought the Americans' plans were too expensive. Still Working in Her 80's
        Mrs. Parish stayed on as a partner in the firm into her 80's, proving to be a notably durable member of a pioneer cohort of American women who came to prominence as interior decorators between the two world wars.
        Mrs. Parish is widely considered to have originated, in the 1960's, the decorating idiom that became known as American country style: she was an early and influential champion of the humble striped cloth called mattress ticking, which had traditionally covered mattresses, using it for slipcovers and on throw pillows.
        She saw no conflict between innovation and traditionalism. As she wrote in HG magazine in 1990, "Years ago, my partner, Albert Hadley, and I were delighted when patchwork quilts, four-poster beds, painted floors, knitted throws, rag rugs and hand-woven bedsteads were first listed among the 'innovations' of our firm."
        "The list sounds old-fashioned, and no decorator wants to be that," she continued, "but Albert and I understood that innovation is often the ability to reach into the past and bring back what is good, what is beautiful, what is lasting." Father Collected Antiques
        Mrs. Parish's own girlhood was, if not regal, at least baronial. She was born Dorothy May Kinnicutt in July 15, 1910, in Morristown, N.J., the daughter of G. Hermann Kinnicutt and the former May Appleton Tuckerman, who had homes in Manhattan, Maine and Paris, as well as New Jersey.
        Mrs. Parish's father was a collector of antiques (as was a cousin, Dorothy Draper, who also became a renowned decorator). Much later she would recall the distaste she felt as a child for the furniture her father collected, "that awful English brown," as she put it.
        As a teen-ager, she saw painted French furniture in Paris -- and experienced a revelation.
        She went to the Chapin School in Manhattan and to the Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va., made her debut and was married to Mr. Parish in 1930 in Manhattan with, as The New York Times reported at the time, "a representative gathering of old New York families on hand." Decorating a Farmhouse
        After her marriage, she and her husband had a home on East End Avenue in Manhattan -- which had been done by a decorator -- and a farmhouse in Far Hills, N.J., which Mrs. Parish herself decorated, with gusto.
        Her handiwork was admired, friends began coming to her for help with decorating, and she later confidently recalled that "it never occurred to me that I wasn't qualified to give it."
        It was four years after the Wall Street crash of 1929 that Mrs. Parish, who had never received a high school diploma, opened her first office. Hard times were coming upon her husband and her father, both blue-blooded stockbrokers. She called her business "Mrs. Henry Parish 2d Interiors" and placed it in Far Hills.
        The success that followed was fueled by her taste, talent and strength of will. Mr. Hadley, who joined forces with her in 1962, said in 1991 that "Sis always knows when a room is right and a room is not." She was famed for creating a homey "undecorated look."  'Money, Big Money'
        In some ways, Mrs. Parish's rise was made easier by her upper-crust roots, and her earliest work was decorating the houses of friends.
        Decorating by Mrs. Parish and her firm also acquired a reputation for being expensive. The New York Times columnist Charlotte Curtis wrote in 1985 that Parish-Hadley work "costs money, big money."
        But Mrs. Parish also had an economical streak. In the mid-1960's, she acquired a batch of turn-of-the-century golden oak furniture at a bargain basement price, the story goes, then painted it white and used it in decorating a house that she and her husband had bought in Maine.
        As the design editor Elaine Greene wrote later in The New York Times, "when shown in the January 1967 issue of House & Garden, the house dazzled decorators the way Christian Dior's 1947 New Look did the fashion world."
        The white furniture and other furnishings in the house -- including soft-hued chintz, needlework, hand-crafted cotton rugs and paintings of dogs -- became staples of the style. Decorating for the Kennedys
        Mrs. Parish met Jacqueline Kennedy socially in the late 1950's and helped her decorate the house in the Georgetown section of Washington where she and her husband, John F. Kennedy, lived while he was a Senator. After Mr. Kennedy was elected President, his wife made Mrs. Parish a consultant in her redecorating of the White House.
        Mrs. Kennedy also named her to a committee that was formed to help furnish the White House with authentic pieces from a century and a half earlier.
        Speaking of Mrs. Kennedy's plans for redoing the family quarters in the building, Mrs. Parish said early in 1961 that the nation's new First Lady was a person of "simple tastes who wants to create a home."
        The walls of the family quarters were done in pastel tones -- the private drawing room was eventually done in yellow and white.
        In the years since, there have been persistent reports that Mrs. Kennedy and Mrs. Parish -- who could be blunt and acerbic -- had a falling-out over the White House. As Town & Country magazine recounted it in 1988, the First Lady "fired Sister for telling little Caroline to keep her feet off the upholstery. Sister would later describe the experience in explicit, harsh terms."
        But Mrs. Parish could go to enormous lengths to please a client. Sally Bedell Smith wrote in her 1990 book "In All His Glory: The Life of William S. Paley" that in a single bedroom Mrs. Parish and Mr. Hadley did in the 1960's in Mr. Paley's Fifth Avenue duplex, "a painter worked for five months applying 18 coats of paint -- six different shadings just for the base, plus glazing."
        Mr. Parish died in 1977, having spent 34 years with the Wall Street securities firm of Loeb Rhoades & Company.
        Mrs. Parish is survived by her daughters, Mrs. Gilbert of Hot Springs, Ark., and May Appleton Bartlett of Boston; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      