
        Amy Clampitt, known for her dense, ornate and allusive poetry, died on Saturday at her home in Lenox, Mass. She was 74 and also had a home in Manhattan.
        The cause was ovarian cancer, said Anne Close, her editor at Alfred A. Knopf.
        Ms. Clampitt published her first full-length book of poetry, "The Kingfisher," when she was 63. It was a delayed but auspicious beginning. Richard Tillinghast, in The New York Times Book Review, wrote that the author "immediately merits consideration as one of our most distinguished contemporary poets." The work, which challenged readers with long strings of dependent clauses, an often obscure vocabulary and arcane literary allusions, ran counter to the prevailing taste for pared-down, plain speech. Instead, she offered "baroque profusion, the romance of the adjective, labyrinthine syntax, a festival lexicon," the poet Alfred Corn wrote in a review.
        Ms. Clampitt was born in New Providence, Iowa, and grew up on a 125-acre farm. After earning a bachelor's degree with honors in English at Grinnell College in Grinnell, Iowa, in 1941 she studied at Columbia University and the New School for Social Research.
        She worked as a secretary and a writer at Oxford University Press from 1943 to 1951 and as reference librarian at the National Audubon Society from 1952 to 1959. Through the 1960's and most of the 70's, she was a freelance writer, editor and researcher. From 1977 to 1982 she was an editor at E. P. Dutton. Initially Self-Published
        In college, Ms. Clampitt succumbed to the spell of Gerard Manley Hopkins, but she wrote little poetry at the time. In the 1950's, she made unsuccessful stabs at novel writing. It was not until the 60's that she began writing poetry in earnest, initially without success. In 1974, at her own expense, she published a poetry chapbook, "Multitudes, Multitudes." The work caught the eye of Howard Moss, the poetry editor of The New Yorker, who began publishing Ms. Clampitt regularly. In 1981, a second small collection, "The Isthmus," was published.
        "The Kingfisher," published in 1983 by Alfred A. Knopf, immediately pushed its author to the front ranks of American poets. Organized around the elements earth, air, fire and water, it treated subjects as various as the plants and marine life of New England, John Lennon's murder, the Holocaust and the Vietnam War.
        Comparing Ms. Clampitt to Hopkins, Marianne Moore and Elizabeth Bishop, critics noted her pinpoint descriptions of the natural world that led to unexpected metaphysical insights and conclusions. She once referred to herself as "a poet of place," a characterization that she later revised to "a poet of displacement." From Life and Myth
        "What the Light Was Like" (1985, Knopf) solidified its author's reputation. Like "The Kingfisher," it began with several poems about the New England coast, notably the book's title poem, an elegy for a drowned lobsterman.
        In "Archaic Figure" (1987, Knopf), inspired in part by the author's travels in Greece, Ms. Clampitt used Greek myth to explore what Virginia Woolf called "the ancient consciousness of women." Her other major collections were "Westward" (1990, Knopf) and "A Silence Opens" (1994, Knopf).
        She also published an essay collection, "Predecessors, et Cetera" (1991, University of Michigan Press) and edited "The Essential Donne" (1988, Ecco Press).
        Ms. Clampitt received a fellowship award for distinguished poetic achievement from the Academy of American Poets in 1982 and a MacArthur Fellowship in 1992. She was a member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters.
        She is survived by her husband, Harold L. Korn; two brothers, Lawrence, of Brunswick, Me., and Philip, of Auburn Hills, Mich., and a sister, Beth, of Carlisle, Iowa.
      