
        Martha Raye, the big-mouthed, big-hearted entertainer whose career spanned the decades from vaudeville to videos, died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 78.
        In recent years, she had suffered a serious of ailments, including a stroke and circulatory difficulties. Ron Wise, a spokesman for Cedars-Sinai, said, "Her death was an aggregate of that and other problems."
        Miss Raye sang, she danced, she acted on Broadway, in Hollywood and on television, but the knockabout comic won perhaps her greatest renown as an indefatigable trouper who traveled thousands of miles through three wars to lift the morale of America's fighting forces.
        "They ask so little and give so much," she said during the Vietnam War. "The least we can do back home here is give them the love, the respect and the dignity that they, our flag and our country deserve."
        Her real name was Margie Yvonne Reed. She was born on Aug. 27, 1916, into a show-business family in the charity ward of a hospital in Butte, Mont. Her father and mother, Pete Reed and the former Peggy Hooper, were Irish immigrants whose song-and-dance routine, under the name Reed and Hooper, took them to carnivals and vaudeville houses around the United States.
        "I didn't work until I was 3," Miss Raye was to say years later. "But after that, I never stopped."
        Her mother taught her to read and write while the family, which also included her sister and brother, crisscrossed the country. From time to time, she attended schools in Montana, Chicago and New York.
        "Our home was in an old, broken down Pierce Arrow auto which my father drove," Miss Raye remembered. "We put the scenery in the back seat and that was where we slept at night. We cooked on Sterno. And we went from town to town, looking for bookings."
        She played burlesque houses, nightclubs and saloons, where she said she worked for tips only. "On a good night, I made a dollar," she said. "On a bad one, 25 cents."
        At 15, she was singing, dancing and clowning in a children's act. She picked the name Martha Raye from a phone book and piled up the credits. She was a member of the Benny Davis Revue and the Ben Blue Company, a trouper on the Loew's vaudeville circuit, a member of the Will Morrisey act and a feature performer in "Earl Carroll's Sketchbook" and "Calling All Stars."
        Eventually she made her way to Hollywood. And on one of the Sunday nights when stars gathered and entertained one another at the Trocadero nightclub, she got a couple of her friends to play straightmen to her comedy. Their names were Jimmy Durante and Joe E. Lewis. The producer Norman Taurog saw her perform, and the next day she was working with Bing Crosby on the 1936 film "Rhythm on the Range." She did a slapstick drunk scene and sang a song called "Mr. Paganini," and became a star overnight.
        Miss Raye appeared in films like "Waikiki Wedding," "College Holiday," "Give Me a Sailor," "Keep 'em Flying" and "Hellzapoppin." In 1940, she starred on Broadway opposite Al Jolson in the revue "Hold Onto Your Hats." She appeared on his radio show and the programs of Eddie Cantor and Bob Hope.
        During World War II, she began entertaining troops, and the 1944 film "Four Jills in a Jeep" was based on a U.S.O. tour of bases in England and Africa she made in the company of Kay Francis, Carole Landis and Mitzi Mayfair.
        In 1969, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences gave Miss Raye the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award for her wartime efforts, and she was given the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1993.
        She was not happy about her Hollywood career, except for "Monsieur Verdoux," Charlie Chaplin's controversial 1947 black comedy about a Parisian Bluebeard who marries and kills for money. "I must have made 35 or 40 movies and most of them were mindless," Miss Raye said. "But in those days actors didn't fight the system; then we thought we were lucky to be under contract."
        Her performance in "Verdoux," in which she portrayed Annabella Bonheur, a raucous, indestructible wife of the killer, was praised as brilliant by Bosley Crowther of The New York Times. "Do you know," she recalled in 1972, "that when Chaplin called to offer me the part, I hung up on him; I thought it was a joke."
        She blamed her decline in Hollywood on executives who focused on her shapely legs and ability to fill out a sweater. "They tried to make a glamour girl out of me," the brown-haired, blue-eyed actress complained. "Let's face it, I'm not a glamour girl. I'm a clown."
        Despite her setbacks in Hollywood, she was far from finished. Milton Berle gave her a start in television, and by 1954, she was the medium's reigning female comedian. Ahead of her was more success in nightclubs, cabaret and theater.
        Offstage, life was darker. "As an entertainer, she's a genius," one of her colleagues once said. "Socially, she's completely unsure of herself."
        She married again and again. Among her husbands were the makeup artist Buddy Westmore, the composer David Rose, the businessman Neal Lang, the dancers Nick Condos and Edward Begley and the policeman Robert O'Shea. Her last marriage was in 1991, to 42-year-old Mark Harris, her manager.
        She had a daughter, Melody, by Mr. Condos. After Miss Raye suffered a stroke in 1991, she and Melody battled in court over control of the actress's money. In July 1992, Miss Raye filed a lawsuit alleging that the 1991 Bette Midler-James Caan film "For the Boys" wrongfully appropriated her life story. A judge dismissed the $5 million complaint earlier this year.
        In her later years, many people knew Miss Raye as the star of Polident commercials.
        She is survived by her husband and her daughter.
      