
        Kaleria Fedicheva, a former ballerina with the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad who taught and staged the classics in the United States, died on Sept. 13 in Maribor, Slovenia, where she had been seeking medical treatment. She was 58 years old and lived in Glen Cove, L.I.
        Ms. Fedicheva died of cancer, said Martin Fredmann, her former husband and the artistic director of the Colorado Ballet in Denver.
        Ms. Fedicheva belonged to the generation of Kirov stars, including Rudolf Nureyev, Natalia Makarova, Yuri Soloviev and Alla Sizova, who created a sensation in the West in the 1960's. After graduating from the Kirov school in 1955, Ms. Fedicheva excelled in 19th-century classics that showed off her dynamism, like "Raymonda," and she drew immediate acclaim during the Kirov's first seasons in New York in 1961 and 1964. Unlike her younger partner Mikhail Baryshnikov and Mr. Nureyev and Ms. Makarova, Ms. Fedicheva did not defect while touring abroad.
        But after she married Mr. Fredmann, an American dancer studying at the Kirov, in 1974, Soviet authorities, saying she was not divorced from her first husband, blocked her exit visa to the United States for a year. Her case received international attention after she was beaten by two men outside her apartment in what was then Leningrad, in what she said was an attempt to intimidate her. The Soviet Government permitted her to leave in February 1975 with her son, Ivan.
        Ms. Fedicheva and Mr. Fredmann were divorced four years later but remained good friends, and she staged an acclaimed production of "Giselle" for the Colorado Ballet last year.
        Ms. Fedicheva staged other works from the Russian repertory and choreographed new ones in the United States and abroad after she opened the New Russian School in Sea Cliff, L.I., after her arrival. She also directed her students and professional guest artists in the Fedicheva Ballet Company of Glen Cove, which was founded in 1982. The group's annual production of "The Nutcracker" was seen in New York City and on Long Island.
        As a dancer, Ms. Fedicheva was at her best when her technical brilliance came to the fore in ballets like "Laurencia" and "Don Quixote." Yet she also excelled in "La Bayadere" and performed regularly in classics like "Swan Lake" and in contemporary Soviet ballets.
        In addition to her son, Ms. Fedicheva is survived by her mother in St. Petersburg, Russia.
      