
        Mildred Natwick, a versatile actress who created an engaging gallery of eccentric, whimsical and spunky characters in plays, films and television for more than 60 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89.
        Miss Natwick, a small woman with sharp features and a mischievous manner, was a familiar figure on the Broadway stage, where she appeared in some 40 productions. Among other roles, she played an idiosyncratic secretary in George Bernard Shaw's "Candida," an extroverted medium in Noel Coward's "Blithe Spirit" and a shrewish wife in Jean Anouilh's "Waltz of the Toreadors."
        The New York Times critic Brooks Atkinson, in his review of the Anouilh play in 1957, characterized her performance as "protean" and one that "rides the whirlwind with a great sweep of venomous extravagance."
        Miss Natwick's comic brilliance in Neil Simon's "Barefoot in the Park" prompted Walter Kerr to acclaim her in 1963 as "the most hilarious woman in the Western hemisphere." She further confirmed her versatility in 1970 in Harold Pinter's "Landscape" and in 1971 when, at the age of 62, she made her debut in a singing role in a John Kander-Fred Ebb musical, "70, Girls, 70," as the disarming leader of a circle of elderly people seeking self-esteem by stealing furs.
        Among Miss Natwick's films were four directed by John Ford. She appeared as a prostitute in "The Long Voyage Home," a doomed mother in "The Three Godfathers," a hard-bitten Army wife in "She Wore a Yellow Ribbon" and a sly widow in "The Quiet Man."
        In a 1990 interview, she praised Ford as a masterly director who needed just a few words to inspire actors and give them the right clue or insight for a scene. In contrast, she said, Alfred Hitchcock, in directing the comedy "The Trouble With Harry," told her and the other actors precisely what he wanted.
        Miss Natwick concentrated her career on Broadway, saying she had always preferred plays to movies because "on the stage, you're in control for two hours, while in a film, you do bits and pieces, usually out of sequence."
        She received an Academy Award nomination as best supporting actress for her work in the 1967 film version of "Barefoot in the Park." She also received several Tony and Emmy nominations and was awarded an Emmy for "The Snoop Sisters," a 1973-74 television series in which she and Helen Hayes played successful mystery writers who were obsessed with solving real crimes.
        In an interview in her Park Avenue apartment, she said her main criterion for creating a role was to make a character as inseparable from herself as possible. Nearly everything, she remarked, "is hit or miss for a while, until it all comes together." She said her advice to young performers was: "Act every time you get a chance. At least in the beginning, go wherever acting is."
        Miss Natwick, who was called Milly by friends and associates, was born in Baltimore on June 19, 1905, to Joseph Natwick, a businessman, and the former Mildred Marion Dawes. She graduated from the Bryn Mawr School in Baltimore and also from Bennett Junior College in Dutchess County, N.Y., where she majored in drama.
        She began performing at the age of 21 with the Vagabonds, a nonprofessional group in Baltimore. She soon joined the celebrated University Players on Cape Cod, trading lines with such other young performers as Henry Fonda, James Stewart, Margaret Sullavan and Joshua Logan. She made her Broadway debut in the melodrama "Carry Nation" in 1932.
        Among her films were "The Enchanted Cottage" (1945), "The Late George Apley" (1947), "Cheaper by the Dozen" (1950), "The Court Jester" (1956), "If It's Tuesday This Must Be Belgium" (1967), "Daisy Miller" (1974) and "Dangerous Liaisons" (1988)
        No immediate family members survive.
        Correction:  November 8, 1994, Tuesday
        An obituary on Oct. 26 about the actress Mildred Natwick referred incorrectly to her debut in a singing role in a musical. It was in "Stars in Your Eyes" in 1939, not in "70, Girls, 70" in 1971.
      