
        Mary G. Roebling, former chairwoman of the National State Bank, one of New Jersey's largest independent banks, and a former governor of the American Stock Exchange, died on Tuesday at her home in Trenton. She was 89.
        The cause was renal failure, The Associated Press reported.
        Mrs. Roebling retired in 1984 as chairman of the National State Bank in Elizabeth, N.J., which then had assets of $1.2 billion.
        Earlier, she became the first woman to head a major American bank, the Trenton Trust Company. In 1937, at the age of 30, she was named its president. It grew substantially and she was its president or chairman or both until 1972, when Trenton Trust was acquired by National State. She was then elected chairman of the combined institutions.
        Mrs. Roebling was also a founder, in 1978, of the Women's Bank N.A. of Denver, the first nationally chartered bank founded by women. She went on to serve as its chairman until 1983. In addition, she was the American Stock Exchange's first woman governor, from 1958 to 1962.
        Mrs. Roebling also served as a director of numerous other corporations over the years, was active in many civic, charitable and educational organizations, and was a tireless advocate of a greater role for women in the country's economic affairs.
        In a speech in 1965, Mrs. Roebling said: "As a woman who for years has competed in the business world, I would be the first to agree that the American woman has almost unbelievable economic power, but American women, like women of all civilized nations, do not use the influence their economic power gives them."
        Mrs. Roebling's own economic power came initially through inheritance, but she increased it vastly once it fell into her hands. She was bequeathed a large block of Trenton Trust stock by her millionaire second husband, Siegfried Roebling, whose family had long been prominent in engineering and cable manufacturing. He was a great-grandson of John A. Roebling, who designed the Brooklyn Bridge, and a grandson of Col. Washington A. Roebling, who completed its construction.
        Siegfried Roebling died in 1936, of a heart attack. Mrs. Roebling's father and father-in-law then urged her to try her hand at running the bank. She had preparation for the job: she had worked for a Philadelphia investment house while taking business courses at night and, the two men told her, she had another important qualification, common sense.
        The rest was banking history. She took her husband's seat on the bank's board and, on Jan. 21, 1937, was elected president.
        "Mary G. Roebling didn't wait for women's lib," Forbes magazine once wrote, "she was ahead of it, way ahead."
        By 1970, Mrs. Roebling estimated that 300 other American women had become presidents or chairwomen of banks. But in 1978, when she became chairwoman of the Women's Bank, she argued that there still was a place in the business world for banks that were operated specifically for female customers.
        "Women's banks can be better listeners for women and give them more time, advice and direction than an ordinary bank would give," she told an interviewer. "It's a psychological thing, really."
        She continued to be active in male-dominated spheres, however: in 1978, after having served as a civilian aide to the Secretary of the Army in several administrations, she became the founding president of the newly formed Army War College Foundation. It was set up to support the college's fund-raising and other activities.
        She was born Mary Gindhart in 1907 in West Collingswood, N.J., the daughter of Isaac D. Gindhart Jr., a telephone company executive, and Mary Simon Gindhart, a music teacher. She went to public schools in Haddonfield and Moorestown, N.J., and earned pocket money picking strawberries for a penny a box.
        While still a teen-ager, she married a musician, Arthur Herbert, but he died three years later, leaving her with a daughter to support. She went to work in Philadelphia and took evening courses in merchandising and business administration at the University of Pennsylvania.
        She left her job when she married Mr. Roebling, becoming a housewife again until his death.
        Over the years, Mrs. Roebling was variously a director of the Tattersall Corporation, the Standard Fire Insurance Company and the Colonial Operating Company, in Trenton, among other concerns; an officer of the New York World's Fair Corporation in 1964 and 1965; a member of the National Business Council on Consumer Affairs and of the Boy Scouts of America's national advisory council, and an active participant in other nonprofit organizations. She was awarded numerous honorary degrees and other honors.
        She is survived by a daughter, Betty Hobin of Palm Beach, Fla., and Hopewell Township, N.J.; five grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and a sister, Margaret G. Finley of Haddonfield, N.J. A son, Paul Roebling, died in July.
      