
        Pearl Primus, a pioneering dancer, choreographer and teacher whose anthropological work exposed Americans to the realities of black life in America and to the richness of African and Caribbean dance, died on Saturday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 74.
        Miss Primus died after a brief illness, said Joyce Knight, a friend.
        A powerful performer and lecturer, Miss Primus played a role similar to that of Katherine Dunham in establishing dance by and about blacks as an important part of American culture. Her belief that there was material for dance in the everyday lives of black people -- and her strong personality and early success -- had a profound influence on several generations of black choreographers and dancers, among them Donald McKayle and Alvin Ailey.
        Miss Primus visited Africa for the first time in 1948, but she had begun to present carefully researched dance with African themes in 1943 and was the first American choreographer to do so. In 1974, her contributions were celebrated in a salute to her and the ballerina Janet Collins by the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater.
        But Miss Primus was equally celebrated for her depiction of American life and of the injustices inflicted on black Americans, particularly in the American South. In one of her best-known dances, "Strange Fruit," a woman reacts in horror to a lynching. "The Negro Speaks of Rivers" -- created, like "Strange Fruit," in 1943 and inspired by the Langston Hughes poem -- depicted the Mississippi and the hard lives of blacks along its shores. "Dance has been my freedom and my world," she said in 1991. "I dance not to entertain but to help people better understand each other."
        An accident of fate led Miss Primus to become a dancer. Born in Trinidad, she was brought to the United States as a child by her parents. She received a bachelor's degree in biology and pre-medical sciences from Hunter College with the intention of becoming a doctor. Unable to find a laboratory job open to blacks, she applied to the National Youth Administration and was put into a dance group.
        She enrolled in modern-dance classes at the New Dance Group, where she began to teach, and in 1943 gave the first performance of her own work. John Martin wrote in The New York Times that "if ever a young dancer was entitled to a company of her own and the freedom to do what she chooses with it, she is it."
        A few months later, Barney Josephson invited Miss Primus to perform at his Cafe Society Downtown. Troubled by having to choose between medicine and dance, she consulted Mr. Martin. No one would ever be able to say, he told her, whether art or medicine had the greater curative power. Miss Primus remained at the nightclub for 10 months. When there was a problem with the music during her first performance there, a burly man rose from the audience and encouraged her to keep on, teasing her about having broken up his home by teaching his son the Lindy Hop. The man was Paul Robeson, one of many black cultural figures with whom Miss Primus would become friendly over the years.
        Miss Primus toured with the musical "Show Boat," then founded a company and presented her work on Broadway and in national tours. On one Southern tour, she was offered a Rosenwald Foundation scholarship to study dance in Africa. Later, she worked there with local performers. She married Percival Borde, a dancer she met on a visit home to Trinidad in 1953, and they founded a popular school in New York and performed frequently together. Mr. Borde died in 1979.
        Miss Primus was made director of a new performing-arts center in Monrovia, Liberia, in 1959. Two years later, she and Mr. Borde performed throughout Africa with their dancers and musicians on a tour sponsored by the Rebekah Harkness Foundation. It was not until 1978 that she completed her work for a doctorate in anthropology at New York University.
        "My life has been like traveling up a river," she told an interviewer in 1979. "Every now and then I would hear singing around the bend, and so around the bend I would go and become occupied with living."
        Miss Primus continued to perform until 1980, after which she was the director of the Cora P. Maloney College, a black studies school at the State University of New York at Buffalo, and was Five-College Professor of Ethnic Studies at schools in Massachusetts in the 1980's. She was an early and important participant in "The Black Tradition in American Dance," a program to revive and preserve black dance that began in 1988 at the American Dance Festival, where in 1991 she was named the first recipient of the Balasaraswati/ Joy AnnDewey Beinecke Chair for Distinguished Teaching. Other honors included the National Medal of the Arts in 1991. Miss Primus continued to teach throughout the United States until her death.
        She is survived by a son, Onwin Borde of Miami.
      