
        Ruth Blumka, a prominent New York dealer in medieval and Renaissance art and a donor of artworks to museums around the country, died on Monday at New York University Hospital. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from ovarian cancer, said her son, Anthony Blumka.
        Among the works donated to the Metropolitan Museum by Mrs. Blumka and her husband, Leopold, were a 15th-century silver tabernacle produced for the Monastery of St. Peter at Salzburg and a rare enameled devotional cradle made in the Netherlands in the 15th century.
        After her husband's death in 1973, Mrs. Blumka donated other objects, including, in 1991, a German 15th-century tapestry from the altar of a Nuremberg church.
        "It's a great loss," Philippe de Montebello, the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said yesterday. "Ruth Blumka was really an art dealer of the old school with a tremendous knowledge of the works of art she handled and an extremely good eye. And she placed a number of great objects, both through sale and gift in the Metropolitan Museum and elsewhere."
        The Blumkas also made gifts of art objects and antiques to the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the National Gallery in Washington, the Minneapolis Museum of Art, the Cincinnati Art Museum and the Louvre in Paris. She was a member of the National Antique and Art Dealers Association of America and a participant in the International Fine Art and Antique Dealers Show each year since its founding in 1989.
        Mrs. Blumka, whose name was originally Ruth Zickel, was born and reared in Munich, the daughter of Nadja and Frederic Zickel, dealers in German Expressionist art. She came to New York in 1939, and in 1942 began to work for Mr. Blumka at his East 57th Street gallery.
        Mr. Blumka introduced her to medieval and Renaissance art, the field in which his family had specialized in Vienna for several generations. She remained at the gallery after their marriage a decade later. The gallery is now at 101 East 81st Street.
        The Blumkas counted among their clients Robert Lehman, Belle and Jack Linsky, Marjorie Merriweather Post and Anne Johnson when she was the wife of Henry Ford 2d.
        In addition to her son, a New York art dealer, she is survived by three grandchildren, Kimberly and Justin Nasatir and Amanda Goldberg, and a brother, John Zickel of Carmichael, Calif.
      