
        Joan Kahn, a book editor whose imprint was a hallmark of suspense stories for many years, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Manhattan.
        She died after a brief illness, her family said.
        Miss Kahn edited hundreds of suspense novels and her imprint, "A Joan Kahn Book," represented excellence for discriminating mystery lovers. She started the Harper Novels of Suspense during her 34-year career at Harper & Row, and also edited books for Ticknor & Fields, Dutton and St. Martin's Press, from which she retired in 1989.
        Through the years, she signed such writers as Dorothy L. Sayers, Dick Francis, Patricia Highsmith, Michael Gilbert, Julian Symons and John Creasey. After Tony Hillerman showed the manuscript of his first novel to his agent at the time, the agent advised him to stick to nonfiction. But it caught the eye of Miss Kahn, then at Harper & Row, which published the book in 1970 as "The Blessing Way."
        "She wouldn't discuss the book with me until I had finished it to my satisfaction, then it was open season," Mr. Hillerman recalled yesterday. "But if we disagreed, she'd let me win the argument. She taught me a great deal about writing and was a wonderful woman."
        Miss Kahn was born on April 13, 1914, in New York City and attended the Horace Mann School, the Yale School of Art, Barnard College and the Art Students League. She began her career at Harper Brothers in 1946, editing books about history, art, theater and travel, in addition to suspense novels. She wrote two novels -- "To Meet Miss Long" (1943) and "Open House" (1946) -- and four children's books, and edited 11 mystery anthologies.
        In 1985, she received the Ellery Queen Award from the Mystery Writers of America for lifetime service to the industry. On her retirement, she received a special Edgar Allan Poe Award from the association for her distinguished career in the publishing of mystery fiction.
        She is survived by a sister, Olivia, of Manhattan, and three nephews, Ely J. Kahn 3d of Cohasset, Mass.; Joseph P. Kahn of Sudbury, Mass., and Hamilton R. Kahn of Wellfleet, Mass.
      