
        Arlene Carmen, a church administrator whose ministry sought out society's castoffs in the streets of Greenwich Village and midtown Manhattan, died on Sunday in Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. A Village resident, she was 58.
        The cause was complications from congestive heart failure, according to Judson Memorial Church, where she was program associate and church administrator.
        Ms. Carmen spent 28 years on the staff of Judson, on Washington Square. She became widely known in the late 1970's when she began to minister to a substratum of prostitutes, prisoners and rebellious artists, and later, to people with AIDS.
        She opened a clinic at the church, but soon realized that mistrust kept away street people. That led her to roam Eighth Avenue in a church van offering counsel and referrals as well as lemonade and clothing. At times, she was accompanied by the Rev. Howard Moody, then the senior minister, who acted as the driver.
        Once, in 1978, Ms. Carmen was arrested in a "sweep" of Times Square prostitutes and spent almost 22 hours in custody. She went to court with the New York Civil Liberties Union and won an $8,500 award. A jury found that the arrest was legal but the long detention was not.
        She was born and raised in the Bronx and graduated from City College. She worked with Mr. Moody, running a Clergy Consultation Service on Abortion, a nationwide referral network for safe abortions, before the advent of legalized abortion in 1973. Together they wrote two books, one on abortion counseling and one on prostitution. Ms. Carmen also helped stage arts events and campaigned against censorship.
        She stopped her runs in the van some years ago, but continued to aid prostitutes, whom she called "sex workers," most recently as a consultant to Manhattan's Midtown Community Court. Ms. Carmen was an organizer of the People With AIDS Health Group.
        Ms. Carmen is survived by her mother, Mina Carmen of Freehold, N.J., and two sisters, Andrea Carmen of Freehold, and Jewel DeRoy of Los Angeles.
      