
        Amelia Dietrich Lewis, a lawyer who helped reshape the American juvenile justice system, died on Wednesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Phoenix. She was 91 and lived in nearby Scottsdale.
        She had suffered a brief illness, her family said.
        Mrs. Lewis argued a landmark 1967 case in which the United States Supreme Court ruled that juveniles charged with criminal offenses were entitled to the same procedural protections in juvenile courts that adults enjoyed in the criminal courts.
        The case, In re Gault, dated from 1964, when a 15-year-old boy in Globe, Ariz., was accused of making a lewd telephone call to a woman in his neighborhood. Adjudged a delinquent, he faced detention in a reformatory until he turned 21, punishment that was coincidentally far greater than a similarly charged adult, enjoying greater courtroom protections, would have faced.
        Mrs. Lewis took the case after the family of the boy, Gerald Gault, had virtually exhausted its appeals. The American Civil Liberties Union and its Arizona affiliate underwrote the effort, but Mrs. Lewis paid her way to Washington and her expenses there. She later said she had been drawn to the case because "I have raised three healthy sons, and I wanted to give something back."
        In its 7-to-2 decision in Gerald's favor, the Supreme Court held that he was entitled to the constitutional safeguards that he had been denied: the right to legal counsel, the right to cross-examine witnesses and the right to remain silent.
        "Neither the 14th Amendment nor the Bill of Rights is for adults only," Justice Abe Fortas wrote for the majority. "Under our Constitution, the condition of being a boy does not justify a kangaroo court."
        Mrs. Lewis was born in the Bronx, received her law degree from St. Lawrence Law School (now Brooklyn Law School) and became one of the few women to be admitted to the New York bar in the early 1920's. She practiced in New York for 33 years and was working in the city's juvenile justice system when her husband, Maxwell Lewis, died in 1957.
        She then moved to Arizona, where she took the bar examination with just one other woman, Sandra Day O'Connor, who in 1981 became the first woman on the Supreme Court. Mrs. Lewis continued to practice until two years ago.
        She is survived by her three sons, Dr. David Lewis of Linkoping, Sweden, Frank Lewis of Phoenix, and Peter Lewis of Baltimore; a sister, Ernestine D. Hanwell of Atlanta; a brother, Paul Dietrich of Ridge, L.I.; eight grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 8, 1994, Thursday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Nov. 19 about Amelia Dietrich Lewis, a former lawyer, misstated her role in a 1967 Supreme Court case that established that juveniles have essentially the same Constitutional safeguards in criminal proceedings as adults. Mrs. Lewis was co-counsel; Prof. Norman Dorsen of New York University Law School presented oral arguments on behalf of the American Civil Liberties Union.
      