
        Ruth Fizdale, who helped to make modern social work a profession, died on Sunday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in the Bronx. She was 86 and a resident of Patterson, N.Y.
        The cause of death was complications from a stroke, according to the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, where she was an adjunct professor emeritus in community medicine.
        Miss Fizdale made her mark during 19 years as executive director of the Arthur Lehman Counseling Service in Manhattan. At the service, which is defunct, she developed a fee-for-service system for use by private agencies. The purpose was to lift the welfare aura of charity from them.
        Lehman Counseling was created for clients who could afford a reasonable fee. It also paid reasonable salaries, thus bolstering the professional image of its social workers.
        Miss Fizdale chronicled the agency's first decade and a half in "Social Agency Structures and Accountability" (Burdick, 1974). The work became a casebook for graduate schools, social agencies and private practitioners as it set standards for social-work services on a fee basis for middle- and upper-income clients.
        A month ago, the Columbia University School of Social Work established a Helen Rehr and Ruth Fizdale Professorship of Health and Mental Health. New York State recognized her as Social Worker of the Year in 1970, and a few years ago, the National Association of Social Work set up its Ruth Fizdale Fund in Social Welfare Studies in her honor.
        She was long associated with the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and its Department of Community Medicine. She was also an adjunct professor at the Hunter School of Social Work.
        Miss Fizdale graduated from the University of Chicago. She received a master's at the Smith College School of Social Work and an advanced-study certificate from the University of Pennsylvania. She was a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers and its Competence Certification Board.
        During World War II, she led a Veterans Administration program to restructure its staff and student training. She then served as a psychiatric caseworker at the Jewish Family Service's Mandel Clinic in Brooklyn and with the New York Association for New Americans.
      