
        Joanne Rathgeb, an actress, director and educator who fought for greater awareness and increased resources to fight breast cancer, died of the disease on Nov. 19 at her home in Essex Junction, Vt. She was 64.
        Her cancer was diagnosed nine years ago, but she continued an active life. She retired last year as a professor of fine arts and drama at St. Michael's College in Colchester after 30 years on the faculty. She was the first woman to head the fine arts department there.
        Vermont has the eighth highest rate of death from breast cancer in the nation, but Mrs. Rathgeb's prominence as a campaigner against the disease extended beyond her home state. She collected about 14,000 letters that were delivered to the Congressional delegation from Vermont. The letters called for increased research and a cancer registry.
        In 1992, she started a cancer registry in Vermont, and Congress passed the Cancer Registries Act, which established a national standard for the collection of cancer data.
        Mrs. Rathgeb was born in Terre Haute, Ind., and earned a bachelor's degree in theater and a master's degree in English at Indiana State University. She did post-graduate work at Catholic University of America, taught in the Chicago public schools and helped to organize theaters in Terre Haute.
        Early in her career, she joined National Players and took part in productions of "The Taming of the Shrew," "Twelfth Night" and "Oedipus Rex" in Europe and in this country, including a performance at the Carnegie Hall Playhouse in Manhattan. She later returned to New York to appear in Phoenix Theater productions of "Peer Gynt" and "Lysistrata."
        Since 1958, she had been a producer, director, coach and actress at St. Michael's Playhouse in Vermont.
        Mrs. Rathgeb is survived by her husband of 34 years, Donald Sr.; three daughters, Elizabeth Pratt of Amesbury, Mass., and Laura Rathgeb and Mary Jo Balaskas, both of Manhattan; a son, Donald Jr. of Burlington, Vt.; a sister, Laura Mae Hellrung of Alton, Ill.; a brother, Howard Ellspermann of Cape Coral, Fla., and one granddaughter.
      