
        By all appearances, this was a great year for Alix Gres, the French fashion designer. There was a retrospective of her work held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute in September, attended by Yuzo Yagi, the chairman of Yagi Tsusho Ltd., the Japanese company that had bought the rights to her name in 1988 and had sponsored the exhibition. In Japan, the company was promoting her name anew.
        And she was being heralded by fellow couturiers like Yves Saint Laurent, who marveled at the show in an interview in Women's Wear Daily. Her daughter, Anne Gres (the name is pronounced greh), provided the fashion industry newspaper with a response she said her mother had dictated on Oct. 9. "Coming from an artist and colleague whom I admire," said an excerpt published on Nov. 1, "I'm greatly touched."
        So the fashion world was startled to learn yesterday that Mme. Gres, as she is always called by those in her trade, had been dead for more than a year. Born on Nov. 30, 1903, she died on Nov. 24, 1993, in a retirement home in the south of France, a fact that was carefully hidden by her daughter.
        In a front-page story in the French newspaper Le Monde, Anne Gres said she had disguised the death of her mother for the last 13 months for two reasons. "First of all, I looked to protect her," she said. "All those who have profited from her would again find the means to draw on her money." The second reason she gave was respect for the older sister of Mme. Gres, who is still alive. She added that she did not yet have the money to buy the sort of tomb that would dignify her mother's memory. "It made me suffer more," she said about hiding the news. "It is like it didn't happen."
        No one knew about Mme. Gres's death until the article appeared. Not her closest friends and peers, Pierre Cardin and Hubert de Givenchy. Not Jacques Mouclier, the head of the Chambre Syndicale, the governing body of French fashion, where she held the title of honorary president for life. Not Richard Martin, the curator of the Costume Institute exhibition, and not even Mr. Yagi, the owner of the rights to her name.
        Those interviewed in Paris as the news spread expressed confusion at the charade, which was revealed when Le Monde uncovered a document in a district mayor's office in Paris confirming her death. It was verified in interviews with residents of the home in St.-Paul-de-Vence where Mme. Gres had lived.
        For the French fashion industry, where designer names are often bought and sold without consulting the founders, it is an eerie illustration of how a design house can continue on without its progenitor.
        Mme. Gres was the last survivor of her generation of couturiers, which included Madeleine Vionnet, Jeanne Lanvin, Elsa Schiaparelli and Gabrielle Chanel. Although some have asked whether there could have been a commercial reason for her daughter's actions, it seems unlikely, given the number of houses in Paris that continue after the designer has died, from Balenciaga to Chanel and Christian Dior, where big-name designers took over the workrooms.
        "It is very difficult to express oneself on hearing such a frightening piece of news," Mr. de Givenchy said in a fax. "I was very shocked to learn of the passing of such a 'grande dame' like this one a year too late. Mme. Gres was a person who was very discreet and very humble, and maybe this was her decision."
        Her clients, often the people closest to designers who work in couture, as Mme. Gres did, were especially shocked at the news. Sao Schlumberger, who donated a dress to the Costume Institute for the exhibition, said: "It is quite strange. Some time ago I talked with the Duchess of Orleans, who was a customer of hers and a close friend, and she said she went to visit her in an old people's home. And the first time she recognized her, but the last time she didn't recognize her at all."
        One reason Mme. Gres was able to fade away was that she was no longer active in her house, which she sold in 1984 to the French industrialist Bernard Tapie. She later told Mr. Cardin that the decision was the worst she had ever made, recalled Bernard Danillon, the communications director for Pierre Cardin. Mr. Cardin had tried to stay in touch with Mme. Gres, Mr. Danillon said, but "every time that anyone asks about Mme. Gres to Jacques Mouclier, the answer was given by her daughter, and she said always, 'Mme. Gres wants to be quiet, she doesn't want to be disturbed, she doesn't want to talk to anybody.' "
        "After years and years of getting this answer, you don't call again," Mr. Danillon said. "You respect someone's wish."
        At the Costume Institute, Mr. Martin said he had made two attempts to contact Mme. Gres, one when the show was in the planning stage, the other when it was ready to open, inviting her to come. "We took the Women's Wear Daily response as being the sure indication that Mme. Gres was aware of the show," Mr. Martin said. "Maybe you wouldn't have told people if you were reclusive, but to create a fiction, a fabrication of her being alive? I don't even understand what the purpose would be."
        Everyone who wrote about the exhibition discussed the designer in the present tense. Bernadine Morris wrote in The New York Times: "A nonagenarian, she is one of the great female designers who dominated haute couture in Paris until after World War II, when the men took over."
        Those who admire her work are feeling haunted, having missed a long mourning period.
        "It gives me goose bumps," said Susan Gutfreund, a client of Mme.  Gres who also shared a Paris hairdresser with her. She last saw her four years ago. "Her daughter must have had a reason to hide it, but I find it very sad," she said.
        One of the reasons for the deception may have been the resentment that Anne Gres indicated to Le Monde over the way the French fashion industry had reacted in 1987, when her mother's couture house was liquidated after rent on her atelier went unpaid for two years. "No one did anything," Anne Gres said, when wooden mannequins, toiles and partly finished dresses were thrown into trash bags.
        The house was emptied in a day. "That day there, she had paid in full, because they had stolen her life," she said.
        In 1988, the house was bought by Mr. Yagi. Her daughter condemned the fashion professionals yesterday in Le Monde. "Mme. Gres is the Bosnia of couture," she said, always speaking in the present tense. "Except for Pierre Cardin and Hubert de Givenchy, who has tried to help her?"
        Mme. Gres's death is remarkable in the way its secrecy mirrors her life. In interviews throughout her career, she refused to reveal her age, her parents' backgrounds (her grandparents were said to be Italian and German) or even her real name. Gres was the name taken by her husband, Serge Czerefkow, a Russian painter she married in the 30's. She was born Germaine Krebs, then changed her name to Alix Barton. The Metropolitan Museum's catalogue told her life story simply: "Mme. Gres is a creation," it said.
        Trained as a sculptor, she began designing clothes in 1930 after learning sketching and cutting at the house of Premet. She then worked for a house called, coincidentally, Alix. During World War II, she started her own house, called Gres, one of only 20 that stayed open throughout the war.
        By the 1950's, Mme. Gres had fully developed what became her signature. She devoted herself early on to draping, and even her name began to evoke images of Grecian dress. Soon she was dressing the society women who became devoted to her, and wives of heads of state, including Princess Grace, Jacqueline Kennedy and Danielle Mitterrand.
        "Mme. Gres is one of the most important 20th-century designers," Mr. Martin said of his decision to hold a retrospective of her work. "Along with Vionnet and Chanel, Mme. Gres was making the most advanced clothing in Paris in the 1930's."
        It was not until 1980 that Mme. Gres showed a ready-to-wear line, 10 years after her peers had done so.
        In an interview with Women's Wear Daily in 1975, she said: "From the beginning, I didn't want to do what others were doing in any way. I wasn't able to, because I didn't have the knowledge. That was one reason I took the material and worked directly on it. I used the knowledge I had, which was sculpture."
      