
        Catherine Filene Shouse, the philanthropist and arts patron who was the founder and major benefactor of the Wolf Trap Farm Park for the Performing Arts in Virginia, died yesterday at her home in Naples, Fla. She was 98 and also had homes in Washington, Easton, Md., and Vienna, Va., where Wolf Trap is situated.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said Carol Harford, a longtime friend who is president emeritus of the Wolf Trap Foundation, which presents the park's arts programs under the auspices of the Department of the Interior.
        Mrs. Shouse, the heiress to a retailing fortune, was a lifelong champion of the performing arts whose accomplishments and philanthropic ventures earned recognition from the highest quarters. In 1977, President Gerald Ford gave her the Presidential Medal of Freedom. A year earlier, Queen Elizabeth II had made her Dame Commander of the British Empire. This past October, she was among 12 Americans to receive the National Medal of Arts.
        Catherine Filene was born in Boston in 1896. Her grandfather, William Filene, was the founder of the Filene's department-store chain, and her father, Lincoln Filene, founded Federated Department Stores. She graduated from Wheaton College in Norton, Mass., in 1918, and earned a master's degree in education at Harvard University in 1923.
        Over seven decades, Mrs. Shouse held a remarkable variety of public and private posts. In 1919, she became the first woman appointed to the Democratic National Committee, and in the mid-1920's, she served under President Calvin Coolidge as chairwoman of the First Federal Prison for Women, where she instituted a job training and rehabilitation program.
        In the 1940's, she became a dog breeder, importing hunting dogs from Germany and Switzerland and starting her own kennel at Wolf Trap Farm, a tract of land across the Potomac River, 15 miles west of Washington, that she had purchased in 1930.
        In 1949, she joined the National Symphony Orchestra's board, and she served as its vice president from 1951 through 1968. In 1959, President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed her to the first board of the National Cultural Center, now known as the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, to which she was reappointed twice by President Richard M. Nixon. As late as 1991, she was invited by the Yale School of Music to serve on its board.
        Mrs. Shouse's most lasting legacy, however, is Wolf Trap. In 1966, at the age of 70, she donated 100 acres of the farm in Vienna to the United States Government to create a national park for the performing arts. There, under the auspices of the Department of the Interior, Mrs. Shouse established the Wolf Trap Foundation to manage the park, arrange programming and raise money, a unique partnership among the public and private sectors for managing an arts center. The park opened in 1971 and since then has been home to performances by some of the world's great musicians, dancers, singers and actors.
        In 1982, the main amphitheater burned to the ground, but Mrs. Shouse led the drive to resurrect it, and a new theater, the 7,000-seat Filene Center (half the $18 million cost came from a Congressional appropriation), opened in 1984. It is now visited by some 500,000 people annually.
        During her last decade, Mrs. Shouse, who was known to her friends as Kay, suffered from arthritis but remained a familiar figure at Wolf Trap, touring the grounds in a golf cart.
        She was married twice, in 1921, to Alvin E. Dodd, a businessman from whom she was divorced in 1930. Two years later, she married Jouett Shouse, the chairman of the Democratic National Executive Committee. Shouse, a lawyer and businessman, had been a Congressman from Kansas and the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury under President Coolidge. He died in 1967.
        Mrs. Shouse is survived by a daughter, Joan Dodd Tolley of Naples, four grandchildren, 10 great-grandchildren and three great-great-grandchildren.
      