
        Lilia Skala, a stage and screen actress best known for her portrayal of the headstrong Mother Superior in the 1963 film "Lilies of the Field," died on Sunday at her home in Bay Shore, L.I. She was in her 90's, but her exact date of birth was unknown, her family said.
        Miss Skala's performance in "Lilies of the Field," which also starred Sidney Poitier, earned her an Oscar nomination and a Golden Globe Award. She appeared in numerous other movies, including "Call Me Madam" with Ethel Merman (both in roles they had in the original Broadway stage version), "Ship of Fools," "Roseland," "Flashdance," "Heartland" and "House of Games." Her last screen appearance was in the 1991 film "Men of Respect."
        She was born in Vienna around the turn of the century and graduated from the University of Dresden with a degree in architecture. She was the first female member of the Austrian Association of Engineers and Architects and helped design several buildings in Vienna. But her love for the theater gradually took precedence over architecture. She joined the Max Reinhardt Repertory Theater and eventually became an Austrian stage and screen star.
        In 1939, fleeing Hitler, her family immigrated to the United States where her acting career came to a temporary halt until she landed the part of a Swiss housekeeper in the 1941 Broadway production "Letters to Lucerne." Soon, offers of other roles began coming in. She was seen in many Broadway and Off Broadway productions, including "With a Silk Thread," "Arms and the Man," "The Survivors" and a 1986 musical version of "The Shop on Main Street" at the Jewish Repertory Theater.
        She also sang the role of Mrs. Peachum in the New York City Opera's 1965 production of "The Threepenny Opera," and appeared on television in shows like "The Goldbergs," "Kraft Theater," "I Remember Mama" and "Search for Tomorrow."
        She is survived by two sons, Martin, of Darien, Conn., and Peter, of London; and five grandchildren, Elizabeth, Emily, Justin, Katri and Christopher.
      