
        Frances T. Freeman Jalet-Cruz, a legal-aid lawyer who fought for more humane conditions in the Texas prison system, died on Tuesday at St. Joseph's Manor in Trumbull, Conn. She was 84.
        She had suffered a long illness, her family said.
        Mrs. Jalet (pronounced ja-LAY) was trained in international law but spent much of her career defending prisoners and the indigent. In Texas, newspapers came to label her "St. Frances of Houston" and "Portia of the Poor."
        She arrived in the state in 1967 fresh from a course in poverty law at the University of Pennsylvania -- 57 years old and a white-haired mother of five grown children. Supported by a fellowship, she joined the Legal Aid and Defender Society of Travis County in Austin to defend the poor.
        A newspaper article about her prompted a Mexican-American inmate and jailhouse lawyer named Fred Arispe Cruz to call her for assistance in appealing his robbery conviction. Hearing of inmates' complaints about what she considered harsh and often illegal treatment from the Texas Department of Corrections, she mounted a campaign on behalf of the prisoners.
        She was in the thick of a stormy debate and bitter, costly litigation in the state's prison system in the 1960's and 1970's. She also caused a sensation in 1972 when, at the age of 61, she married Mr. Cruz, 32, after his release from prison. The marriage lasted six years.
        The attention eventually led to a broader movement focusing on prison reform, and in the 1980's the Federal courts ordered sweeping changes in prisons statewide.
        Her exploits and battle were chronicled in "Texas Prisons: The Walls Came Tumbling Down," by Steve J. Martin and Sheldon Ekland-Olson (Texas Monthly Press, 1987). The book's dedication cited "her unwavering belief in the rule of law."
        She was born in Boston and graduated from Radcliffe College before earning advanced degrees at Columbia University Law School, Teachers College and Georgetown Law Center. She worked for the American Association of University Women and in various legal positions in Washington before moving to Texas.
        Mrs. Jalet is survived by a son, Tuckerman S. Jalet of Westport, Conn.; four daughters, Jacqueline J. Gordon of Greenwich, Conn., Vanessa Jalet-Stanescu of Manhattan, Roberta J. Kurland of State College, Pa., and Frances Jalet-Miller of Queens, and eight grandchildren.
      