
        Katherine Kuh, a writer on art and a former curator at the Art Institute of Chicago who devoted her career to the acceptance of modern art, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89.
        She died of natural causes, said her lawyer, William H. Roth.
        Mrs. Kuh, the former Katherine Woolf, was born in St. Louis in 1904. She attended Vassar College and decided to focus on art history after taking a course taught by Alfred H. Barr Jr., soon to become the founding director of the Museum of Modern Art.
        After graduate work at the University of Chicago and New York University, she opened Chicago's first commercial gallery of avant-garde art in 1936. For the next six years, she exhibited works by an impressive list of European and American modernists, including Leger, Kandinsky, Picasso and Klee, as well as African and pre-Columbian art, typographical design and photography. Sales were rare, so Mrs. Kuh kept the gallery afloat by holding art-history classes there. Innovative Exhibitions
        In 1943, she was hired by Daniel Catton Rich, director of the Art Institute of Chicago, to run the museum's public-relations office while its regular director served in the military. She was soon put in charge of the museum's Gallery of Art Interpretation, where she mounted innovative exhibitions that introduced the public to modern art by comparing it to examples of art from other periods.
        As associate curator of painting and sculpture at the institute, Mrs. Kuh worked with Rich to organize the first public exhibition of the great modern art collection of Mr. and Mrs. Walter Arensberg in 1949. In 1951, she published her first book, "Art Has Many Faces," one of the first books on the appreciation of modern art, and it was widely used by teachers.
        In 1954, she became the Art Institute's first curator of modern painting and sculpture and, with Rich, was responsible for acquiring many of its most important works in this area, including Matisse's monumental figure painting "Bathers by a River."
        In 1959, a year after Rich's departure, Mrs. Kuh left the Art Institute; soon she moved to New York. Over the next decade, she worked as art adviser for the First National Bank of Chicago, assembling an eclectic corporate collection of some 2,000 works that is considered one of the best in the country. During this period, her books included "The Artist's Voice" (1962), "Break-Up: The Core of Modern Art" (1965) and "The Open Eye: In Pursuit of Art" (1971).
        Her marriage, to George Kuh, ended in divorce.
      