
        Jean Ickelheimer Stralem, a New York philanthropist and art collector, died on Tuesday at her Manhattan home. She was 86 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        She suffered a long illness, said Lillian Groueff, her former sister-in-law.
        Mrs. Stralem, who was born into the Lehman investment banking family, devoted much of her life to the blind and to children with multiple handicaps. One of her principal beneficiaries was the Lighthouse, with which she had a 56-year relationship.
        She became a member in 1938, was elected to the board in 1948 and was made vice president in 1973. She also served as vice chairman and continued as an active board member until her death. In the 1950's, she was instrumental in finding community locations for Lighthouse nursery schools.
        She began to press for a comprehensive child-development center as early as 1964, and with expansion and renovations at the Lighthouse in 1994, a Jean Stralem Child Development Center was dedicated on her birthday in October.
        She often participated in fund-raising benefits, particulary for the American Theater Wing. She was a former board member and officer of the Theater Wing. Other beneficiaries of her philanthropy included Lenox Hill Hospital.
        Her private collection included works by Picasso, Matisse, Degas and Renoir, as well as rare first-edition children's books and miniature furniture. Her grandfather, Philip Lehman, was the original owner of the Lehman Art Collection that is now part of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        Her husband, Donald Stralem, a New York banker, died in 1976.
        Mrs. Stralem is survived by a daughter, Lynn Stralem of Carmel, Calif.; two granddaughters and four great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 24, 1994, Saturday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Thursday about Jean Ickelheimer Stralem, a New York philanthropist and art collector, misstated her relationship with the American Theater Wing. Mrs. Stralem, who died on Tuesday, was a current and active officer and board member -- not a former one -- at her death.
      