
        Julie Haydon, the actress who created the role of the fragile Laura Wingfield in the original production of "The Glass Menagerie," died on Saturday in La Crosse, Wis. She was 84.
        The cause was abdominal cancer, said Patricia Angelin, the executor of the estate of George Jean Nathan. Miss Haydon was the widow of Nathan, the drama critic.
        When "The Glass Menagerie" opened on Broadway in 1945, it immediately established Tennessee Williams's reputation and represented an important return to the theater for Laurette Taylor, who played Amanda Wingfield, a fictional representation of the playwright's mother. Though overshadowed by Miss Taylor, Miss Haydon, as the young girl who cherished her collection of glass figurines, shared in the praise. In his review in The New York Times, Lewis Nichols wrote that she brought "a shy helplessness, a desire to be liked" to a role that was based on Williams's sister.
        Miss Haydon was born in Oak Park, Ill. When she was 19, she toured with Minnie Maddern Fiske in "Mrs. Bumpstead Leigh." Two years later, she played Ophelia in a production of "Hamlet" at the Hollywood Playhouse. Among her films were "Age of Innocence" (with Irene Dunne), "The Scoundrel" (with Noel Coward) and "A Family Affair," the first in the Andy Hardy series. While appearing on the stage in California in "Autumn Crocus" (with Frances Lederer) she met Nathan.
        She made her Broadway debut in 1935 in Philip Barry's "Bright Star," which closed after seven performances. Several subsequent plays were successes, including Paul Vincent Carroll's "Shadow and Substance," in which she played a saintly maid, and William Saroyan's Pulitzer Prize-winning "The Time of Your Life," in which she created the role of the prostitute Kitty Duval.
        Also in the cast of "The Time of Your Life" were Gene Kelly and Eddie Dowling. Later she appeared in Saroyan's "Sweeney in the Trees" and "Hello, Out There," opposite Dowling. Reviewing "Hello, Out There," Brooks Atkinson wrote in The Times that together they gave "a lyrical performance of great enchantment."
        Dowling was the director as well as a star of "The Glass Menagerie" (in the role based on the author). After that historic production, Miss Haydon acted in several other Broadway plays, including Ferenc Molnar's "Miracle in the Mountains." Her performance in "The Glass Menagerie" remained the high point of her career.
        She married Nathan in 1955. After his death in 1958, she made guest appearances in various plays often in community theaters and on college campuses. She also lectured in programs drawn from her husband's many books. In 1962 she left New York and returned to the Midwest. For 10 years she was actress in residence at the College of St. Teresa in Winona, Minn.
        She played the mother in revivals of "The Glass Menagerie," and in 1980, still petite with a cameo face, she returned to the New York theater to do the role off Broadway, opposite Ms. Angelin as the daughter.
        She is survived by her sister, Miriam Donaldson Ziegler of Los Angeles.
      