
        Elizabeth Glaser, who waged a tireless campaign to draw attention to pediatric AIDS after she unknowingly passed the disease on to her daughter and son, died yesterday at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 47.
        The cause was complications from AIDS, said Josh Baran, a spokesman for the family.
        Mrs. Glaser, the wife of Paul Michael Glaser, a director and actor who starred in the "Starsky and Hutch" television series, was one of several public figures to bring AIDS to the forefront of the 1992 Presidential campaign. She had contracted H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, through a blood transfusion in 1981.
        Thousands of delegates, dignitaries and guests stood frozen in place at the Democratic National Convention in New York City as she told of the death of her 7-year-old daughter, Ariel, in 1988 from AIDS.
        "She taught me to love when all I wanted to do was hate," Mrs. Glaser said. "She taught me to help others when all I wanted to do was help myself."
        In a statement yesterday, President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, said they were deeply saddened by her death. "Elizabeth confronted the challenge of AIDS in her own life and lost her beloved daughter to AIDS at a time when our Government and our country were too indifferent to this illness and the people who had it," he said.
        Mrs. Glaser, a former teacher, was infected with the human immunodeficiency virus when she was nine months pregnant with Ariel, her first child. She began bleeding and was rushed to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, where she received seven pints of blood in a transfusion.
        The baby was delivered successfully but four years later, became seriously ill. Hospital tests found her red blood count low, and she was later tested with the other members of the family for H.I.V.
        Mrs. Glaser tested positive, and doctors found she had passed the virus to Ariel through her breast milk. She had also given the virus to her son, Jake, during pregnancy. Mr. Glaser remained uninfected.
        Jake, now 10, has shown no signs that he has developed AIDS.
        In 1988, drawing on connections made through her husband, Mrs. Glaser helped to found the Pediatric AIDS Foundation with two friends, Susan DeLaurentis and Susan Zeegen.
        The foundation, working out of a donated room with 14 desks and 12 employees, has raised more than $30 million for pediatric education and research, much of it for the Ariel Project, which is searching for ways to block transmission of AIDS from a mother to her fetus.
        The foundation is also studying why some children infected with H.I.V. live longer than others.
        After she and her husband first described the family's fight with the virus in a magazine story in 1989, Mrs. Glaser became a public crusader for more Government involvement in AIDS research and prevention. She appeared on "60 Minutes" and on the cover of People magazine. She also testified before Congress.
        In 1991, she wrote an autobiography, "In The Absence of Angels" (G. P. Putnam's Sons), with Laura Palmer, describing her frustration with the dearth of information on children suffering from AIDS. The book, which was called "a handbook on how the connected make waves in America" in a review in The New York Times, also detailed how she was able to mobilize legislators like Senators Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, and Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, who sponsored a benefit in Washington for Mrs. Glaser's fledgling foundation.
        While she used her celebrity status to further her work, she also promoted her cause through sheer force of will. She was chosen to speak at the 1992 convention only after confronting Mr. Clinton's campaign chairman, Mickey Kantor, now the United States Trade Representative, at a Los Angeles picnic, and telling him, "I have words inside me that I have to share."
        Elizabeth Glaser was born in New York City and raised in Hewlett Harbor, L.I. She was educated at the University of Wisconsin and at Boston University and worked as a teacher and as a director at the Los Angeles Children's Museum.
        She is survived by her husband and son; by her parents, Edith and Max Meyer of Sarasota, Fla., and by a brother, Peter, of Worcester, Mass.
      