
        Janet Oppenheim, a historian on aspects of 19th-century British life like psychological depression, the condition of women and sex roles and stereotypes, died on Friday at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. She was 46 and lived in Villanova, Pa.
        The cause was cancer, said her mother, Elaine Oppenheim.
        At her death, Dr. Oppenheim was a professor of history at American University in Washington, where she had taught since 1975.
        Her latest book is "Shattered Nerves: Doctors, Patients and Depression in Victorian England" (Oxford, 1991). Praising the work in The New Republic, the author Alfred Kazin wrote, "The scholarship is remarkably full, meticulous and far-reaching." And the Stanford University historian Peter Stansky called it "a fascinating study" that "tells us much about the age itself, its preoccupations and obsessions."
        In a 1987 interview, Professor Oppenheim said some feminist historians had suggested that Victorian women had been especially prone to mental and emotional illness because of the confining nature of their lives. But, she said, "for every woman who collapsed in such an illness, there were scores, maybe even hundreds, who soldiered on against the same restrictions and the same limitations on their lives."
        Among Professor Oppenheim's other books was "The Other World: Spiritualism and Psychical Research in England, 1850-1914" (Cambridge, 1985), which the journal Victorian Studies called "a major contribution to the history of ideas."
        Courses that Professor Oppenheim taught at American University included "Men and Women in Victorian Culture: Gender Roles and Stereotypes" and "Selected Topics on the Condition of Women in Victorian England." She was a visiting professor at Princeton University in 1979 and Bryn Mawr College in 1986, and a Guggenheim Fellow in 1988.
        Professor Oppenheim was born in Manhattan and graduated from the Brearley School there and, in 1970, from Bryn Mawr College, where she was summa cum laude. She received a Ph.D. in history from Columbia University in 1975.
        In addition to her mother, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, John Salmon, a retired Bryn Mawr history professor; a daughter by a previous marriage, Ashley Minihan of Villanova, and a sister, Barbara Berresford of Manhattan.
      