
        Margaret Lane, the Dowager Countess of Huntingdon, a British author whose works included books about Peter Rabbit's creator, Beatrix Potter, died last Monday in Southampton, England. She was 86 and lived outside Southampton.
        Miss Lane's two biographies of Miss Potter were the basis of "The Tale of Beatrix Potter," a two-part BBC dramatization shown on "Masterpiece Theater" on WNET in 1984 that was praised as a simple yet intense story with just the right touches of unflinching reserve.
        Miss Lane's two books, "The Tale of Beatrix Potter: a Biography" (1946, Warne and Viking Penguin) and "The Magic Years of Beatrix Potter" (1978), were praised last week in the London newspaper The Independent as enriched by Miss Lane's own "exquisite sympathy with animals."
        When "The Tale of Beatrix Potter" was published in the United States, it was lauded for its deep understanding of Miss Potter, who helped Miss Lane with the book, and for its vivid depiction of Miss Potter walking the hills and moors, gathering material for stories and pictures.
        Miss Lane's 1975 book "Samuel Johnson and his World" has been called one of the very best modern works on Johnson. Her 1953 book about the writer Charlotte Bronte and members of her family, "The Bronte Story," won praise as an outstanding literary biography. And her 1965 novel "A Night at Sea" was lauded for its poignancy and narrative suspense.
        Her other books -- she wrote more than two dozen, all told -- included "A Calabash of Diamonds" (1961), a personal account of an African safari; "Purely for Pleasure" (1967), a collection of essays, and "The Day of the Feast" (1968), a novel. She also wrote children's books.
        The daughter of a journalist, Miss Lane studied at St. Hugh's College of Oxford University, worked as a reporter for some years and went on to become a critic as well as an author.
        Her 1934 marriage to Bryan Wallace, son of the writer Edgar Wallace, was dissolved in 1939. In 1944 she was married to the 15th Earl of Huntingdon, a mural painter, and he died in 1990. They had two daughters.
      