
        Dr. Madeline C. Hunter, an educator and psychologist who translated a psychological learning theory into practical teaching techniques, died last Thursday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 78 and lived in the Bel Air section of Los Angeles.
        Dr. Hunter had a series of strokes, said the Graduate School of Education at the University of California at Los Angeles, where she was an adjunct professor.
        Dr. Hunter was nationally known for her work at the Corinne A. Seeds University Elementary School, the laboratory school of U.C.L.A.'s Graduate School of Education. She served as its principal from 1963 until 1982, when she became a full-time professor in administration and teacher education at the graduate school.
        She used her background in psychology to tailor different approaches for helping pupils learn. Her technique identified the most effective methods for teachers in helping pupils overcome any barriers to learning. Her research challenged the view that failure to learn stems from environmental factors like poverty, broken homes or a low I.Q. She believed that proper teaching methods could overcome any disadvantage.
        "We have yet to find a student who won't learn," she once said.
        She showed the effectiveness of teacher-parent partnerships in education and the importance of helping pupils maintain their self-respect.
        A native of Saskatchewan, she grew up in Santa Monica, Calif., and earned four degrees in psychology and education at U.C.L.A. She began a career as a clinical psychologist and then became a school principal. She led schools in different sections of Los Angeles, including Watts and Bel Air, before becoming principal at university elementary.
        She wrote 12 books and more than 300 articles on teaching.
        Dr. Hunter is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Cheryl,, of Los Angeles; a son, Robin, of Santa Monica; a sister, Dorothy Horner, of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
      