
        Dr. Marija Gimbutas, an author and archeologist, died Wednesday at U.C.L.A. Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 73 and had lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was cancer, said a colleague, Dr. Cristina Biaggi.
        Dr. Gimbutas was the author of 20 books and more than 200 articles on European prehistory and folklore. She was an authority on the prehistoric incursions of Indo-European speaking people into Europe and how they changed society there.
        Three of her more noteworthy books are "Goddesses and Gods of Old Europe" (1974), "The Language of the Goddess" (1989) and "The Civilization of the Goddess" (1991). Collectively, they present an interpretation of the Neolithic period of Europe that challenged traditional views of prehistoric societies.
        Perhaps her most controversial thesis was that the world was at peace during the Stone Age, when goddesses were worshiped and societies were centered on women. Then, the thesis went, about 6,000 years ago a European culture in which the two sexes lived in harmony was shattered by patriarchal invaders, and the worship of life-giving goddesses was replaced by reverence for war-like gods. Her studies and interdisciplinary approach also created a new field, archeomythology.
        Skepticism about her thesis was widespread among scholars, but her ideas were welcomed by many feminists and by Joseph Campbell, the mythologist. Writing about "The Language of the Goddess," Gerda Lerner, a historian at the University of Wisconsin, said that although Dr. Gimbutas's theory could never be proved, it could "challenge, inspire and fascinate" simply by providing an imaginative alternative to male-centered explanations.
        She was the main proponent of the theory that languages like English, French, German and Iranian are all related because a warlike people speaking the tongue ancestral to all Indo-European languages conquered Europe and imposed their language on the conquered. A contrary theory holds that early farmers moving out of the Middle East across Europe transmitted a common language along with agricultural techniques.
        A native of Vilnius, Lithuania, she received degrees from Vilnius University and a doctorate in archeology in 1946 from Tubingen University in Germany. She immigrated to the United States in 1949, conducted post-graduate research at Harvard University and in 1955 was elected research fellow of the Peabody Musuem at Harvard.
        Dr. Gimbutas joined the U.C.L.A. faculty in 1963 and served as professor of European archeology until her retirement four years ago. She directed five major archeological excavations in southeastern Europe.
        Dr. Gimbutas is survived by three daughters, Zivile Gimbutas and Rasa Julie Thies, both of Los Angeles, and Danuta Lake of Anacortes, Wash.
      