
        Anita Morris, an actress who was nominated for a 1982 Tony Award for her exuberant performance as a brassy redhead in black-lace body stocking in the musical "Nine," died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 50.
        The cause was cancer, said her husband, the director Grover Dale.
        Ms. Morris was acting in George Lucas's next film, "Radioland Murders," in Wilmington, N.C., in December when the cancer was discovered, Mr. Dale said. She was forced to leave the production, and started treatment at that time.
        Her musical number in "Nine," "Call From the Vatican," choreographed by Tommy Tune, caused a brief controversy when CBS censors decided it was too risque and banished it from the 1982 Tony Awards program. Ms. Morris was nominated that year for best featured actress in a musical, and also won a Drama Desk award for her performance. Sexy Telephone Call
        In the number, Carla (Ms. Morris), a mistress of the director Guido (Raul Julia), got through to her lover when he was on a movie set by pretending that her telephone call was from the Vatican. Dancing on a pedestal, she proceeded to woo him by telephone. Frank Rich, writing in The New York Times, called the number "a dazzling choreographic gem," adding that Ms. Morris "superbly executes a one-body simulation of two-body copulation."
        Ms. Morris, who was born in Durham, N.C., studied at the National Academy of Dramatic Arts and began her performing career in the American Mime Theater.
        An appearance in the chorus of "Jesus Christ Superstar" in 1972 led to roles on Broadway in "Seesaw" (1973) and "The Magic Show" (1974), in which she was directed by her husband. Ms. Morris subsequently took over several leading roles on Broadway, including those in "Sugar Babies" in 1980 and "The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas" in 1981.
        On film, Ms. Morris played the mistress of Danny DeVito's character in "Ruthless People," and had roles in "The Hotel New Hampshire," "Maria's Lovers," "Absolute Beginners," "18 Again," "Blue City," "Me and the Kid" and "A Sinful Life."
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her parents, Dr. J. B. and Eloise Morris, and two brothers, Byron and Douglas, all of Durham, and a son, James.
      