
        Sayra Fischer Lebenthal, a Wall Street legend who was a co-founder in 1925 of the investment-banking firm of Lebenthal & Company and remained active in it for 67 years, died on Thursday night at her home in Manhattan. She was 95.
        She died after a long illness, her family said.
        Mrs. Lebenthal was a newlywed when she and her husband, Louis S. Lebenthal, set up shop in a tiny office with second-hand furniture and no rugs. They sought their niche as bond traders and found it.
        Bonds had been around since Colonial times, when they were used to finance militias, but in 1925 they were still considered an investment for millionaires. The new firm spotted an opening that had been missed by others: they looked for odd lots of small-denomination bonds from estates and other neglected sources and offered them to relatively modest savers.
        The company thrived, continuing to do so after the death of Louis Lebenthal in 1951. Mrs. Lebenthal, grieving, decided to stay in business. She specialized in tax-exempt municipal bonds for small investors, and watched the market for them soar.
        For years, she put in full workweeks checking the day's municipal offerings and dealing with clients by telephone until, at 92, a fall put her in failing health. She had already begun to delegate management control in thge 1980's and disposed of her majority holding in the firm about four years ago.
        A native of Keyport, N.J., she graduated from Syracuse University Law School and was admitted to the New York Bar in 1923. Set to practice law, she married Mr. Lebenthal in 1925 and he persuaded her to go into a partnership as bond traders.
        Mrs. Lebenthal was remarried in 1956 to I. Arnold Ross, a lawyer and former State Assemblyman. He died in 1981. She is survived by a daughter, Eleanor Lebenthal Bissinger of Manhattan; a son, Jim Lebenthal, the firm's chairman and spokesman, also of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      