
        Estelle Sommers, the administrator and joint owner of the nationwide Capezio Dance-Theater Shops and an arts patron who advised many important dance groups, died on Monday in her apartment in Manhattan. She was 74.
        The cause was cancer, said her daughter Gayle Miller.
        Mrs. Sommers was the widow of Ben Sommers, the dance philanthropist and head of Capezio Ballet Makers, the theatrical shoe company. Until his death at the age of 78 in 1985, she often collaborated with him on arts and business projects. In addition to administering the Capezio shops across the country, Mrs. Sommers owned and managed the Capezio Fashion Shop in New York City from 1964 to 1975.  Active in Organizations
        Mrs. Sommers was best known in the dance world for the energetic way she championed a wide variety of causes and organizations in the United States and abroad. In 1988, she joined the overseers board of the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Becket, Mass., which named a studio in honor of her and her husband. Since 1979, she served as the United States chairwoman of the International Committee for the Dance Library of Israel, which presented her with its documents of dance award last year.
        She was also on the board of the Dance Notation Bureau (and was the recipient of its annual award in 1991), the America-Israel Cultural Foundation, the Center for Dance Medicine, the International Ballet Competition U.S.A., the International Dance Alliance, the Joffrey School of Ballet, the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries, the Israeli Dance Institute and the Yard, a summer choreographic workshop on Martha's Vineyard.
        Mrs. Sommers was a native of Baltimore. She entered the business world in 1947 when she converted a retail store in Cincinnati into a dance-supply business. She moved to New York City in 1962, the year she married Mr. Sommers; a previous marriage ended in divorce.
        In addition to Ms. Miller, who is the president of Capezio Dance-Theater Shops, she is survived by two other daughters, Cathy Rano, vice president of Federated Department Stores, and Debbie J. Palmer; five grandchildren; four step-grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
        Funeral services will be held at noon today at the Central Synagogue, 123 East 55th Street, Manhattan.
      