
        Lili Damita, a French-born actress who became one of Hollywood's most glamorous celebrities in the early years of talking pictures, died on Monday in Good Samaritan Medical Center in Palm Beach, Fla. She was thought to be about 90, and she lived in Palm Beach.
        She had Alzheimer's disease, The Associated Press reported.
        Miss Damita was born in Paris. She spoke five languages and was filming in Berlin when Samuel Goldwyn brought her to Hollywood in 1928 to star with Ronald Colman in Joseph Conrad's "Rescue." A review in The New York Times noted that Miss Damita "is fascinatingly handsome and gives an intelligent performance" in a difficult role. Marriage and a Retirement
        Over the next seven years she was seen in more than a dozen films, and the press chronicled her comings and goings, her rumored or real love affairs and every change of hairdo. Her career ended abruptly when she married Errol Flynn, a dashing newcomer to Hollywood, in 1935. She retired from acting and stayed retired after the marriage ended in 1942.
        After "The Rescue" she starred in Thornton Wilder's "Bridge of San Luis Rey" (1929). She played opposite Victor McLaglen in "The Cock Eyed World" (1929); Gary Cooper in "Fighting Caravans" (1931); Adolphe Menjou, Laurence Olivier and Erich von Stroheim in "Friends and Lovers" (1931), and Jack Buchanan in "Brewster's Millions" (1935).
        Her last film paired her with James Cagney in the "Frisco Kid." She also appeared on Broadway, making her stage debut in "Sons o' Guns" in 1930 with Goldwyn's permission. She starred with Bert Lahr and Eleanor Powell in "George White's Music Hall Varieties," a 1932 vaudeville show. Dancing and Singing
        Miss Damita, whose name was originally Liliane Carre, spent much of her childhood at convents in Portugal, Spain and Greece, and she studied dancing in Belgium. As a teen-ager, she danced and sang for the troops in World War I. She then danced with the Paris Opera and, at 19, succeeded Mistinguette as star of the Casino de Paris Revue.
        Miss Damita -- the name means little lady in Spanish -- had a son with Mr. Flynn, Sean, who was a photojournalist and who disappeared in Cambodia in 1970. Her second marriage in 1962 to Allen B. Loomis, an Iowa manufacturer, also ended in divorce.
      