
        Margaret Millar, whose psychological mystery novels included "How Like an Angel," "A Stranger in My Grave" and "Beast in View," died on Saturday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 79.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Eleanor Van Cott, a trustee of her estate.
        Mrs. Millar earned a reputation as a master of the suspense novel with her carefully constructed, literate mysteries populated by complex, sometimes disturbed characters and rooted in her belief that psychological terror achieved an effectively chilling "violence by implication."  What a Writer Knew
        An avid reader of detective magazines as a child, she once told an interviewer: "They tell you always to write about what you know. What I knew was murder."
        Mrs. Millar was born in Kitchener, Ontario. Her maiden name was Sturm. She began playing piano at the age of 4, and as a teen-ager performed on local radio programs. She was preparing for a musical career when a classics teacher fired her interest in archeology.
        She won a scholarship to University College at the University of Toronto, where she contributed stories to the school's literary magazine. She left college without a degree, and in 1938 married Kenneth Millar, whom she had known since high school.
        While recovering from an illness, Mrs. Millar wrote her first mystery, "The Invisible Worm" (1941), about a multiple murder. In short order, she turned out "The Weak-Eyed Bat" (1942), "The Devil Loves Me" (1942) and "Wall of Eyes" (1943). Her success led her husband to try his hand, as well. Under the pen name Ross Macdonald, he achieved a reputation that overshadowed her own. He died in 1983.
        Mrs. Millar was prolific. She wrote 21 mystery novels, most of them set in Santa Barbara, notably "A Stranger in My Grave" (1961), "How Like an Angel" (1961), "The Fiend" (1964), "Beyond This Point Are Monsters" (1970) and "Banshee" (1983). "Beast in View" (1955), whose central character finds her personality splitting in two, received the Edgar Allan Poe Award for best mystery novel of the year from the Mystery Writers of America. Branching Out
        She also wrote four nonmystery novels and a work of nonfiction, "The Birds and Beasts Were There" (1968).
        In 1983, she received the Grand Master Award from the Mystery Writers of America. She served as the president of this organization in 1957 and 1958.
        She is survived by a sister, Dorothy Schlagel of Santa Barbara.
      