
        Helen Wolff, an American editor and publisher whose taste and talents led to the acquisition and publication of major works of literature, died yesterday at her home in Hanover, N.H. She was 88.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, said her son, Christian.
        Mrs. Wolff, who was regarded by her colleagues in the international book world as the grande dame of letters, published greatly acclaimed and successful works under the imprint "A Helen and Kurt Wolff Book," which she established with her husband at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich in 1961. The Wolffs were particularly respected for bringing out translations of distinguished European authors.
        After her husband's death in a traffic accident in West Germany in 1963, she remained as the imprint's sole publisher at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich without losing any authors to other publishing houses. Mrs. Wolff retired in 1986, but was regularly consulted about acquisitions and translations. The Wolff imprint has continued to flourish at Harcourt Brace. The Merits of Literature
        "The joy of publishing is to see good works become generally recognized," Mrs. Wolff once said. "Literature can do surprisingly well."
        Among the authors with whom she worked closely were Gunter Grass, Umberto Eco, Max Frisch, Georges Simenon, Stanislaw Lem and Amos Oz. She also published Anne Morrow Lindbergh's best-selling "Gift From the Sea."
        "I don't plan to write my memoirs, and I will tell you why," Mrs. Wolff said in 1982 when she was the subject of a profile in The New Yorker. "If one writes oneself, one closes out the writing of others. I've never been able to understand editors who could also write. You have to keep yourself open for the creative efforts of authors; you must be totally receptive. It's like being a priest, and I don't think priests should be married. Nor do I think editors should write. Kurt and I found our creativity and our life in editing and publishing."
        The Wolffs brought to publishing a European sensibility that went beyond the demands and vagaries of the marketplace. Early in this century, Kurt Wolff was Franz Kafka's first publisher, at Kurt Wolff Verlag in Germany. The couple left Germany in the 1930's and lived in Italy and France before immigrating to the United States in 1941 to escape the Nazis. A Founder of Pantheon Books
        The Wolffs founded Pantheon Books in New York in 1942 and went on to publish works that included Boris Pasternak's "Doctor Zhivago." They nurtured that company and remained with it until 1961, when they resigned and moved to Europe. Shortly thereafter, Pantheon was acquired by Random House. The couple's next venture, the Helen and Kurt Wolff imprint, began at the invitation of the publisher William Jovanovich.
        Mrs. Wolff was a step ahead of rival American publishers in acquiring important foreign books because of her fluency in several languages. At the annual Frankfurt Book Fair, for example, she could read a manuscript in its original German, French or Italian and make a decision about it overnight.
        Mrs. Wolff, whose name was originally Helen Mosel, was born in 1906 in Macedonia. Her father was German and her mother was of Hungarian and Austrian parentage. At home, Helen, her sister and her parents spoke German, Turkish and Serbian. Arriving Poor in New York
        After World War I, she attended boarding schools in Vienna and discovered that she had a gift for languages, including English. In 1927, she went to Munich as a trainee at Kurt Wolff Verlag, where she became a full-time employee in charge of art books. She and Mr. Wolff, who was 20 years her senior and divorced, were married in London in 1933. Their son was born the next year.
        When the Wolffs arrived in New York, they were nearly penniless. In 1942, they persuaded three investors to contribute a total of $7,500, which enabled the creation of Pantheon Books. Mrs. Wolff recalled that her personal budget at that time was a dollar a day. The next year, they were joined by Jacques Schiffrin, who had founded Editions Pleiade in Paris and who brought many fine books to Pantheon.
        The Wolffs' first success in the United States was a new edition of the Grimm fairy tales, in 1944. Under their own imprint, they published a number of important works, both fiction and nonfiction. After her husband's death, Mrs. Wolff was responsible for such notable novels as Italo Calvino's "Invisible Cities," a retranslated edition of Giorgio Bassani's "Garden of the Finzi-Continis," Mr. Grass's "Flounder," Mr. Oz's "My Michael" and Mr. Eco's "Name of the Rose."
        In 1981, for her contributions to international publishing, Mrs. Wolff was awarded the Inter Nationes Award for Literature and the Arts by the West German Government. In 1985, she was given the Goethe Medal by Goethe House, the German cultural institute in New York City.
        In addition to her son, a professor of music and classics at Dartmouth College, she is survived by a stepson, Nikolaus Wolff of Norwich, Vt.; a stepdaughter, Maria Stadelmayer of Hamburg, Germany; a brother, George Mosel of Santiago, Chile; a sister, Elizabeth Steinbeis of Brannenburg, Germany, and 10 grandchildren.
      