
        Betty Furness, who went from doing television commercials for Westinghouse refigerators to pioneering the field of consumer affairs as a television journalist, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 78 and lived in New York City and Hartsdale, N.Y..
        She had been treated for cancer for three years, said her husband, Leslie Midgley.
        Her career spanned six decades. She began as a Hollywood actress in the 1930's and became a television spokeswoman for Westinghouse appliances in the 1950's. Between 1976 and 1992 she was a regular contributor to the "Today" program on NBC.
        In 1967 President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her his special assistant for consumer affairs, though consumer groups feared that because of her association with Westinghouse, she would go easy on American industry.
        She became a forceful advocate for American consumers, one who took strong stands on issues like credit regulation and federal meat inspection.
        Elizabeth Mary Furness was born Jan. 3, 1916, in New York City. She was the daughter of an executive for Union Carbide. She attended the Brearley School and Bennett Junior College. Modeling and Acting
        Her acting career began at age 14 when she got a modeling job with the John Robert Powers agency. Later Mr. Powers arranged for her to take a screen test.
        She eventually went to Hollywood, where she appeared in 35 films, most of them low-budget productions, over the next six years.
        Ms. Furness also worked in the theater in summer stock and road productions, among them "Doughgirls" and "My Sister Eileen," then moved to television.
        In 1949 she had a small part in a CBS "Studio One" drama production that led Westinghouse to offer her the job as their spokeswoman. That lasted for 11 years.
        She added the sentence "You can be sure if it's Westinghouse" to popular language in her live spots for refrigerators and vacuum cleaners.
        She went on to do the ads in 1952 at the Republican and Democratic national conventions. Recruiter for Head Start
        She first worked for President Johnson during the 1964 presidential campaign. Afterward was hired as a recruiter for the Head Start and Vista programs. In 1967 she became assistant to the President for consumer affairs.
        She eventually became executive director of the New York State Consumer Protection Board and then commissioner of the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs.
        She joined WNBC-TV in New York City in 1974 and later made appearances on the network's "Today" show. As a reporter, she went from responding to consumer complaints to extensive investigations of issues like fetal alcohol syndrome, car safety and product liability lawsuits.
        She is survived by her husband ; a daughter, Barbara Green; three stepchildren, Leslie Midgley, Andrea Connors and Peter J. Midgley, and two grandchildren.
      