
        Irene Satz, who was instrumental in making line-for-line copies of European couture fashions available at the Ohrbach's discount department store at a fraction of the original's prices, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 80.
        The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, Marcia Israel.
        The relatively inexpensive reproductions of European styles begun in the late 1940's, after World War II had disrupted the couture operations in Paris, and couturiers were eager to have their styles publicized. The project continued until 1976.  Copies in Original Fabrics
        During the 1960's, when other stores followed Ms. Satz's lead and created their own collection of copies, Ms. Satz and her associate, the late Sydney Gittler, went a step further. They had the copies made in the identical fabrics used in Europe. When the copy and the original were paraded down the runway side by side, it was difficult for anyone but an expert to tell the difference. In the beginning, Rose Wells, now a consultant for Gap stores, followed the development in accessory styles.
        Ms. Satz and Mr. Gittler used the top American fashion houses to produce their copies. These manufacturers were happy to do so because it enabled them to obtain the original couture styles and learn how they were made. Sometimes they even shared the cost of the originals, which were bought by Ohrbach's.
        Leading American fashion producers would not sell to Ohrbach's under their own names because the store was a discount house and their other retail accounts would complain. Originally located on 14th Street, the store moved to 34th Street and Fifth Avenue in 1954 and closed in 1986.
        As the line-for-line program grew in acceptance, it included some of the major design names in Europe. Only Christian Dior would not let its name be used, but the fashion world soon discovered the identity behind Dior's pseudonym, Monsieur X.
        Yves Saint Laurent, Hubert de Givenchy, Chanel and Balenciaga were some of the designers whose work was shown repeatedly. Valentino was a favorite from Rome. Many women, like Shirlee Fonda, the widow of Henry Fonda, told Ms. Satz that her shows were their introduction to French fashion.  Fashion Show as Event
        The presentations themselves, which Ms. Satz produced, were the precursors of the fashion show as a media event. The combination of fashionable clients, visiting Hollywood stars like Claudette Colbert and Anita Louise, and the presence of American designers drew hordes of fashion journalists and photographers.
        Ms. Satz joined Ohrbach's as a stock girl when she was 16 years old. She was a vice president when she retired in 1977. Bored with retirement, she joined Judy's, a chain of shops specializing in clothes for young women, in 1982, retiring for a second time in 1992. The chain was run by her sister, Marcia Israel.
        A funeral service will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel today at noon.
        Ms. Satz is survived by her daughter, Susan Fuhrman, and her son-in-law, Dr. Robert Fuhrman, of Westfield, N.J.; three grandsons, Michael, Jeffrey and Jonathan; three sisters, Ms. Israel of Los Angeles, Frances Satz of New York and Anne Stelzer of Seattle; and two nieces, Judy Israel of Malibu, Calif., and Jane Siegel of San Francisco.
      