
        Friedrich Gulda, an iconoclastic Austrian pianist and composer who was as renowned for his jazz performances as for the intellectual clarity of his Bach, Mozart and Beethoven interpretations, died on Thursday at his home in Weissenbach, Austria. He was 69.
        The Austria Press Agency reported that the cause was heart failure.
        Mr. Gulda rebelled against the formalities of the classical music world in grand and often comical ways. In the 1950's, he began sitting in with jazz bands -- sometimes celebrated ones, like Dizzy Gillespie's -- while he was touring as a recitalist and concerto soloist. By the mid-1950's he was including jazz improvisations on his recital programs, and by the early 1970's he was refusing to announce his recital programs in advance. He reportedly once performed a concert in the nude, and last March he faxed news agencies a false report of his own death, apparently to promote a concert at which he was to be resurrected.
        His eccentricities had a marked effect on the classical side of Mr. Gulda's career: he went from being a pianist once described by Harold C. Schonberg in The New York Times as ''a continuation of the great German traditions of piano playing exemplified by Schnabel and Backhaus'' to one with a small but devoted following. He continued to perform in Europe -- he was planning to celebrate his 70th birthday with a concert next May -- and he made plenty of recordings. But his appearances in the United States were rare after the early 1960's.
        Although it often seemed that he had torpedoed the classical side of his career with misguided antics, Mr. Gulda usually gave the impression that his rebellion was rooted in deeply held principles. Having accepted the Beethoven Bicentennial Ring from the Vienna Academy of Music in 1970, he quickly reconsidered and returned it, citing his objections to the conservativism of classical music education.
        Still, listeners who kept tabs on Mr. Gulda through his recordings were rewarded by illuminating performances in which the elucidation of musical structure was prized over virtuosic flashiness. His recording of both books of Bach's ''Well-Tempered Clavier'' on the Philips label is highly regarded among collectors and he was represented by two volumes in the Philips Records ''Great Pianists of the 20th Century'' compendium, released last year. Typically, his installments included George Shearing's ''Lullaby of Birdland'' alongside the Chopin Ballades and a Beethoven concerto.
        Mr. Gulda was born in Vienna on May 16, 1930, and studied at the Grossmann Conservatory and the Vienna Academy of Music. His public performing career began immediately after he won the Geneva International Pianists' Competition at age 16.
        His interest in jazz blossomed in the 1950's as well. Although he had performed improvisatory jazz informally during his earlier American tours, in 1956 he made a celebrated debut at Birdland in New York. He also performed at the Newport Jazz Festival. He started several groups of his own, from small combos to a big band, the Eurojazz Orchestra. In 1968 he established the International Musikforum, a school for students who wanted to learn improvisation, in Ossiach, Austria.
        He never abandoned classical music, but he insisted that his jazz and classical performing be regarded as equal aspects of his musical personality, with composition often bridging the two. His discography frequently drove home that point.
        In the early 1980's he recorded two very different albums in close proximity: one was ''The Meeting,'' a set of improvisatory duets with the jazz pianist Chick Corea; the other was Mozart's Concerto No. 23, with the early-music specialist Nikolaus Harnoncourt. Around the same time, he also released a recording that brought together a probing, propulsive reading of Beethoven's Sonata in C minor (Op. 111) with his own bleak ''Winter Meditation.''
        As a composer, Mr. Gulda was an eclectic who drew on his jazz interests for orchestral works like ''The Veiled Old Land,'' ''The Excursion,'' the Symphony in F and a free adaptation of Shakespeare's ''Measure for Measure'' called ''Drop-Out, Oder Gustav der Letzte.''
        He is survived by two sons, Paul and Rico.
      