
        Dr. G. Ledyard Stebbins Jr., one of the leading evolutionary biologists and foremost botanists of the 20th century, died on Wednesday at his home in Davis, Calif. He was 94.
        Dr. Stebbins was one of the architects of the period during which knowledge from the study of fossils, genetics and the evolutionary history of organisms was incorporated into the theories of Charles Darwin, creating what is now evolutionary biology.
        This intellectual watershed, known as the evolutionary synthesis, has been described by Dr. Stephen Jay Gould, evolutionary biologist at Harvard University, as ''one of the half-dozen major scientific achievements in our century.''
        In his role in this seminal event, Dr. Stebbins is credited with bringing modern evolutionary thinking to the study of plants.
        ''Evolutionary botany is G. Led yard Stebbins,'' said Dr. Vassiliki Betty Smocovitis, a historian of science at the University of Florida. ''He is the discipline. He founded it on his own.''
        Dr. Stebbins, professor emeritus at the University of California at Davis, earned his right to such praise with the publication of ''Variation and Evolution in Plants'' in 1950.
        In the book, he displayed an encyclopedic knowledge of botanical studies from fossils to chromosomes as he provided a detailed argument that plants were subject to the same processes of evolution as animals, an idea that biologists today take as a given.
        By doing so, Dr. Stebbins gave botanists a framework within which to view the evolution of plants, the newly emerging theory of neo-Darwinism, in which new findings in genetics and other fields were merged with Darwin's theories. It remains the dominant theory.
        Dr. Theodosius Dobzhansky, a fruit fly geneticist and contemporary of Dr. Stebbins who is also recognized as a major figure in the evolutionary synthesis, wrote to Dr. Stebbins at the time of the book's publication, saying: ''It will mark a turning point in evolutionary thought and of course in botany as well. Of course, this is not to say that I agree with all you say there, but science progresses because contradictions are resolved by more work and more thinking!''
        It was through such interchanges and the publication of a series of books from 1920 to 1950 that the field of evolutionary biology began to take shape. It was a time of ''mutual education,'' as Dr. Ernst Mayr called it. Dr. Mayr, an evolutionary biologist, along with Dr. George Gaylord Simpson, was a prominent figure in the synthesis.
        Laboratory geneticists, interested in mutations and population genetics, joined with field biologists, interested in the relationships and origins of different species, to make sense of their respective work. New findings were brought together under the conceptual umbrella of Darwin's theories of natural selection, and other theories were tossed aside.
        Dr. Stebbins was said to have a particularly detailed knowledge of the flora of California. Dr. Francisco Ayala, an evolutionary biologist at the University of California at Irvine, said Dr. Stebbins seemed to know every plant in the world, not just scientifically, but personally.
        George Ledyard Stebbins Jr. was born on Jan. 6, 1906, in Lawrence, N.Y., to a wealthy family. He had the benefit of naturalist parents who enjoyed frequent hikes in the country. His mother, Edith, taught her three children the names and songs of common birds, and his father taught the children about plants and coastal creatures in tidal pools near their summer home near Seal Harbor, Me.  Later Dr. Stebbins carried out his first published research near there.
        He entered Harvard University in 1924 intending to become a lawyer. But he came under the sway of a charismatic Harvard professor, Dr. Merritt Lyndon Fernald, one of the century's leading botanists and editor of the botanical bible, ''Gray's Manual of Botany.'' Mr. Stebbins entered Harvard graduate school to study botany in 1926.
        At the time the field of botany was undergoing changes. Once confined to studying dusty herbarium specimens, botanists interested in plant species and their relationships were discovering the modern techniques available for studying chromosomes and genetics. Dr. Stebbins, drawn to these innovations, barely finished graduate school, nearly becoming caught in the political and intellectual cross-fire within the botany department between those intent on keeping genetics out and those intent on bringing it in.
        Dr. Smocovitis suggested that it was Dr. Stebbins's ability to navigate such intellectual rifts that may have allowed him to play his role in the evolutionary synthesis so successfully, bringing plants, otherwise forgotten, into the body of modern thinking on evolutionary biology.
        After graduate school, Dr. Stebbins became a professor at Colgate University. He later took a position at the University of California at Berkeley and eventually the Davis campus.
        After he moved to California, Dr. Stebbins met Dr. Dobzhansky, then at the California Institute of Technology. Both biologists had an interest in the blossoming study of chromosomes and their use in the study of evolution.
        The two often rode horseback on field expeditions, engaged in intense discussions of evolution, intermittently stopping to collect specimens. Dr. Stebbins called the plants that he collected on these trips his ''horseback hybrids.''
        Dr. Stebbins also played an important role in the emerging Society for the Study of Evolution, of which he became the third president in 1948. He used the position to speak out for the botanical side of evolutionary studies, an field dominated by zoologists. In 1949, he wrote to Dr. Mayr, expressing his concerns about the field's dominant journal, Evolution.
        ''Many of us on the plant side,'' he wrote, ''are beginning to feel that 'Evolution' is favoring animals too much, and our interest in the journal and society is starting to decline.''
        He was also an early conservationist. In 1967 while president of the California Native Plant Society, he was influential in efforts to conserve native plants and habitats. He organized weekly field trips that got people into the habit of the conservationist's credo of ''taking nothing but pictures, leaving nothing but footprints.'' In 1967 he prevented the destruction of a raised beach on the Monterey Peninsula that he dubbed Evolution Hill, now called the S. F. B. Morse Botanical Area where Dr. Stebbins said all the problems and principles of evolution could be seen played out among the plant species.
        Dr. Stebbins received numerous awards, including the National Medal of Science, the Gold Medal of the Linnean Society of London, the Verrill Medal and the Lewis Prize. In his honor, the University of California at Davis renamed Cold Canyon Reserve, 277 acres near Lake Berryessa, Calif., Stebbins Cold Canyon Reserve in 1980.
        He served as president of the American Society of Naturalists, the Western Society of Naturalists, the Botanical Society of America and the California Botanical Society and as  secretary general of the Union of Biological Sciences. He was also a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        He wrote six other books, including the influential ''Flowering Plants: Evolution Above the Species Level,''  and a popular work, ''Darwin to DNA, Molecules to Humanity,'' and some 250 journal articles.
        He is survived by a daughter, Edy Paxman of Kalispell, Mont., a son, Robert, of Corvallis, Ore., and a stepson, Marc Monaghan of Chicago.
      