
        Reggie Kray, the last survivor of the three-brother gang of ruthless enforcers with Cockney accents who ran London's underworld in the 1950's and 1960's while gaining reputations as smart-suited escorts to the show business set and Robin Hood figures in their old neighborhood, died Sunday in Norwich. He was 66.
        Suffering from terminal bladder cancer, he had been granted parole by the government on Aug. 26 on compassionate grounds after serving 32 years on a murder conviction.  He died in the honeymoon suite of a waterfront hotel in the eastern England town, surrounded by his wife from a prison marriage and four of his old organized crime associates.
        Over the years, even after they were imprisoned, the dashing Mr. Kray, his identical twin, Ronnie, and their older brother Charlie were glamorized in newspapers, magazines, books, songs, theater pieces and movies. Their faces were on everything from T-shirts to boxer shorts after the photographer of London's swinging 60's, David Bailey, gave them their gangster-chic image with a black and white picture of the twins looking muscular, menacing and well dressed.
        But the explosive and random violence that secured the twins their control of London's protection and extortion rackets also meant that they and Charlie spent almost half their lives as inmates.
        The three brothers were born in the blitz-blighted East End of the London docklands area and earned early local fame for bare-fisted fighting and quick-handed use of pocket knives. The twins became boxers and reportedly could have had professional careers if they had confined their violence to the ring.
        They were both discharged dishonorably from the army in 1954 after spending most of their time in the stockade, and on returning to civilian life, they moved quickly from street thuggery to collecting protection payments from businesses and clubs and eventually taking them over, running the places themselves and opening their own. As nightclub owners, they regularly appeared in the press with actors, actresses, rock stars and boxing champions.
        Elated with their success, they called their gang ''the Firm.'' Ronnie wrote, ''Everyone seemed frightened of us. People were actually ringing in, begging to pay protection money! Reg and I were the bosses of London.''
        At the same time, they gave money to charities and to former East End neighbors, insisted on gentlemanly behavior at their clubs and gaming rooms and always professed adoration for their ''mum,'' Violet.
        Reggie was the brains and Ronnie the brawn, and the two were so inseparable that a slight to one was avenged, usually in the most sadistic  possible fashion, by the other. Ronnie perfected a notorious ''cigarette punch,'' a devastating jaw-breaking uppercut delivered to an enemy who had just opened his mouth after being offered a smoke.
        In 1966, Ronnie, hearing that he had been slighted for his closet homosexuality by a hitman from a rival gang, walked into the Blind Beggar pub in East London, had the song ''The Sun Ain't Gonna Shine Anymore'' put on the jukebox and shot the man, George Cornell, between the eyes.
        A year later, he taunted his brother Reggie, saying, ''I have done mine; about time you done yours.'' Reggie went to the apartment of  Jack (the Hat) McVitie, a small-time villain and former accomplice who had fallen out with the gang, shot him twice and then stabbed him so ferociously that his liver fell out.
        The acts ended whatever police tolerance there had been of the brothers' activity, and in an attention-getting 1969 trial in the Old Bailey, Ronnie and Reggie were found guilty of the two murders and given sentences that specified no parole for at least 30 years. While the fan magazine-style celebration of them did not abate with their convictions, ''Monty Python's Flying Circus'' provided some perspective, lampooning them as ''the Piranha brothers.''
        Ronnie died of a heart attack in the Broadmoor institute for the criminally insane in 1995 at age 61, and Charlie died in April at age 73 on the Isle of Wight while serving a 12-year sentence for his role in a $50 million cocaine-smuggling operation. Reggie was allowed to attend the two funerals and was greeted as a returning hero at both.
        In the last decade, Reggie published an autobiography and a book of doggerel verses, and he gave studiously courteous jail-house interviews in which he pleaded for his release and claimed to be a born-again Christian. In 1997 he married a 38-year-old public relations woman, Roberta Jones, who had become a frequent visitor after she joined the growing campaign to free him.
        He had been married once before, in 1965 to Frances Shea, a 21-year-old sister of a friend, who moved out after eight months and killed herself two years later.
        One gangland tribute came today from Tony Lambrianou, a former mob member who served 15 years for having disposed of Mr. McVitie's body by having it crushed by a car press into a small box-like shape that the Firm jocularly called the ''Oxo,'' after a British bouillon cube of the same name.
        ''Let's get this into perspective here,'' Mr. Lambrianou said. ''They done unto those what they would have done to them, and this involved other villains.''
        But Norman Brennan, director of the Victims of Crime Trust, protested the romanticizing of the gangster. ''Reggie Kray was no hero or celebrity and should be remembered as neither,'' he said. ''He was a career criminal and a convicted murderer, and anyone who believes differently will have forgotten that he held part of East London to ransom.''
        Correction:  October 5, 2000, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Reggie Kray, the last survivor of a three-brother gang that ran London's underworld in the 1950's and 1960's, misstated the condition of the city's East End docklands at the time of his birth. The area was intact, not ''blitz-blighted'' in 1934. The bombing known as the blitz did not occur until World War II.
      