
        Harry Cooper, the hard-luck Hall of Fame golfer who had 31 victories on the PGA Tour in the 1920's and 1930's but never won any of what are now considered the four major tournaments, died yesterday at White Plains Hospital. He was 96.
        Cooper's 31 triumphs share 13th place on the PGA Tour's career list. In the PGA Tour's career rankings, issued in 1989, he also ranked 13th ahead of such champions as Lee Trevino, Tom Watson, Walter Hagen, Gary Player and Raymond Floyd. He is a member of the World Golf Hall of Fame and the Professional Golfers' Association Hall of Fame.
        His nickname, Lighthorse Harry, was given to him by the writer Damon Runyon for his fast play in winning the first Los Angeles Open in 1926, believed to be golf's first $10,000 tournament with a $3,500 bonanza for first place. Cooper and George Von Elm played their 18 holes in two and a half hours, with 5,000 people in their gallery.
        ''Damon told me,'' Cooper often said, ''that he needed a horse to keep up with me.''
        To historians, Cooper is remembered as the best golfer never to have won a major tournament -- the United States Open, the Masters, the P.G.A. Championship and the British Open (in which he never played).
        ''Something always happened that I had no control over,'' he said in 1996. ''I still dwell on the big ones that got away.''
        Two of the major tournaments got away -- the United States Open twice, in 1927 and 1936; and the Masters once, also in 1936.
        Cooper thought he had won the 1927 Open at Oakmont in Pennsylvania, but Tommy Armour holed a 15-foot putt on the 18th green to tie.
        In their 18-hole playoff, Cooper was one stroke ahead until Armour made a 50-foot birdie putt on the 15th hole. On the short 16th, Cooper pushed a 4-iron into one of Oakmont's famous furrowed bunkers.
        ''We didn't have sand wedges then,'' Cooper once recalled. ''I used a club that looked like a waffle iron, a big round head with a thin, sharp blade. But you couldn't follow through with it.''
        His ball stopped on the grassy slope below the green. He took a double-bogey 5 while Armour, whose tee shot had bounced over the green, chipped close for a par 3 and a two-stroke lead.
        In the 1936 Open in Springfield, N.J., at Baltusrol Golf Club's Upper Course, Cooper walked off the final green as the apparent winner with an Open record 72-hole score of 284 despite a 73 with bogeys on the 14th, 15th and 18th holes. Half an hour later, Tony Manero completed a 67 for 282.
        In the 1936 Masters at Augusta National in Georgia, Cooper led through three rounds with 70-69-71, then shot 76 in the rain for 286, the leader in the clubhouse. In those years, the third-round leaders did not tee off in the last groups. He was one of the first to finish.
        ''Then the sun came out,'' he said. ''Horton Smith had good weather for the back nine.''
        Smith, who had won the first Masters in 1934, shot 72 to edge Cooper by one stroke.
        ''Coopy was a great shotmaker, one of the three best fairway-wood players ever with Bobby Jones and Byron Nelson,'' Paul Runyan, the 1938 P.G.A. Championship winner, said. ''But he thought that everybody else got all the breaks and he never got any. He was the most pessimistic, negative thinker I've ever known. Off the course, he was one of the most magnificent human beings in the world. If a caddie got him alone, Coopy would give him $25 when money was money, but if anybody was around, he wouldn't do it.''
        Born on Aug. 6, 1904, in England (which made him ineligible for the United States Ryder Cup team), Cooper grew up in Dallas, where his father, Dick, was a golf pro. He was the first winner of the Vardon Trophy for low stroke average in 1937 and was also the leading money-winner that year with $14,139. He held several prestigious club-pro jobs, notably at Lakeside in Hollywood, Calif., where he instructed Bob Hope and Howard Hughes. He was the club pro at Metropolis in White Plains for 26 years.
        Cooper was a teaching pro at the Westchester Country Club in Harrison, N.Y., until he was 93. Giving lessons from a small chair at the practice range, he was believed to be golf's oldest active teaching pro. More than half a century earlier, he had been a guru to many of his famous contemporaries.
        ''I helped Ben Hogan get rid of his hook in the 30's,'' Cooper once said. ''I noticed he was letting go with the last one or two fingers of his left hand at the top of the swing, then regripping. You can't let go. Whenever Ben saw me after that, he always gave me a hug.''
        Cooper is survived by his wife, Emma, of Hartsdale, N.Y.
      