
        Art Coulter, one of the National Hockey League's top defensemen of the 1930's, the captain of the Rangers' 1940 Stanley Cup championship team and a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame, died Saturday in Mobile, Ala. He was 91.
        An outstanding puck-handler and a durable player, Coulter was a four-time All-Star, once with the Chicago Blackhawks and three times with the Rangers, in an N.H.L. career that spanned 11 seasons.
        Coulter was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and learned to play hockey at the joining of two frozen rivers, a huge rink of sorts where, he said, it was ''300 kids and one puck.''
        He made his N.H.L. debut with the Blackhawks in the 1931-32 season, played for Chicago's 1934 Stanley Cup champions, then was traded to the Rangers in January 1936 after, he said, he ''sassed'' the team owner when he came to the locker room to berate some teammates.
        Coulter thrived with the Rangers under the influence of the star forward Bill Cook, who had been the captain since the team was born in 1926.
        ''If you stepped out of line, he put you back,'' Coulter would recall.
        He became the Ranger captain in the 1937-38 season, after Cook retired, and two seasons later he starred for a team that won the franchise's first N.H.L. championship in seven years.
        Coulter joined the United States Coast Guard in 1942, played hockey for its team of former N.H.L. stars at Curtis Bay, Md., during World War II, and never returned to pro hockey.
        He retired with 30 goals, 82 assists and 543 penalty minutes in 465 regular-season games and was elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1974.
        Coulter worked in his family's hardware and importing business in Miami after leaving hockey, then moved to Alabama.
        He is survived by a brother, Tom.
        When the Rangers were in the Stanley Cup finals in June 1994, en route to their first championship in 54 seasons, the seven surviving members of the 1940 team were sought out, and nostalgia ruled.
        ''Art Coulter was our best player,'' Clint Smith, a center on the 1940 team and a fellow Hall of Famer, recalled. ''He was a leader, like what you have now in Mark Messier.''
        Coulter found no one to praise among modern hockey players, saying they ''just shoot the puck and chase it around like headless chickens.'' When his old Ranger jersey had crumbled, he tossed it away and never asked the team to replace it, and he found nothing good to say about the 1994 Rangers.
        Messier or no, Coulter's idea of a great line was the Rangers' Bill and Bun Cook and their center, Frank Boucher, who became the coach of the 1940 team.
        ''All of 'em are in the Hall of Fame,'' Coulter said. ''They had brains. Stick-handling. Passing. They played the game like it should be played.
        ''Our old team that won the Stanley Cup could skate backwards blindfolded and whup the Rangers they've got today.''
        Correction:  October 26, 2000, Thursday  A picture on Friday with an obituary of Art Coulter, a former National Hockey League player, was misidentified by The Associated Press and published in error. It showed Murray (Muzz) Patrick, Mr. Coulter's New York Ranger teammate. The obituary also omitted four survivors. In addition to Mr. Coulter's brother, Tom, of Chicago, he is survived by a son, Art, of Miami; a daughter, Patricia Mundy, of Metuchen, N.J.; and two grandchildren.
      