
        Clifford Truesdell, a mathematician and historian of mathematics who also was an authority on European art and culture, died on Jan. 14. in Baltimore. He was 80 and lived in Baltimore.
        Dr. Truesdell was best known for developing the mathematical underpinnings of continuum mechanics, work that started in the 1960's and continued for the rest of his life. Continuum mechanics includes the study of elasticity, the bending of beams and bridges as well as the vibrations of drums, and the study of fluids, including water, air and more exotic forms like liquid crystals, which are found in laptop displays.
        More broadly, Dr. Truesdell helped popularize rational mechanics, a field devoted to developing a mathematical framework for mechanics as broadly defined to include mechanical systems like robotics, thermodynamics and electromagnetism.
        ''He was a bit of a reactionary in that he viewed the mathematical foundations of continuum mechanics to be on rather shaky ground, and he set about to put this right,'' said Jerrold E. Marsden, a professor in the department of control and dynamical systems at the California Institute of Technology.
        ''You'd think such an endeavor would be of interest only to mathematicians, but when you put your mathematical house in order, it broadens and strengthens its applications,'' Professor Marsden continued. ''What Truesdell did eventually had an enormous impact on engineering.''
        Dr. Truesdell was also a historian of mathematics and a scholar of the literature, art and music of the 16th through the 18th centuries. He financially supported and promoted the performance of Baroque music on period instruments.
        Clifford A. Truesdell III was born in 1919 in Los Angeles. As a youth he traveled through Europe on his savings, extending his knowledge of Latin and Greek and becoming fluent in German, French and Italian.
        ''At that time he wanted to be a poet,'' said his son, Clifford A. Truesdell IV of Cambridge, Mass. ''However, he had a strong belief that poetry should be metrical and rhyme, and thought he had no chance to succeed in the 20th century with such old-fashioned beliefs.''
        Turning to science in college, Dr. Truesdell did his undergraduate and master's work at the California Institute of Technology, and received a Ph.D. in mathematics from Princeton University in 1943. From 1944 to 1950 he was a member of the Radiation Laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, chief of the theoretical mechanics subdivision of the United States Naval Ordinance Laboratory and head of the theoretical mechanics section at the Naval Research Laboratory.
        In 1950 Dr. Truesdell became a professor of mathematics at the Graduate Institute for Applied Mathematics at Indiana University, and in 1961 he was appointed professor of rational mechanics at Johns Hopkins University. He retired in 1989.
        Dr. Truesdell was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Among the professional awards he received were the Humboldt Prize, an international research award, and he twice received the Euler Medal of the Soviet Union's Academy of Sciences.
        In 1978 he won the George David Birkhoff Prize in Applied Mathematics, an honor given jointly by the American Mathematical Society and the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics for an outstanding contribution to applied mathematics. Dr. Truesdell's award was for his work in giving precise mathematical formulations to the study of mechanics and for major work in the history of mechanics.
        Dr. Truesdell was the founder and editor of The Archive for Rational Mechanics and Analysis. He wrote hundreds of research papers in five languages, and was the author or co-author of 26 books on a variety of subjects.
        Besides his son, Clifford, he is survived by his wife of 48 years, Charlotte Brudno Truesdell, and two grandsons.
      