
        The Very Rev. Thomas R. Peterson, a former chancellor and president of Seton Hall University who played a major role in its fund-raising, died on Sunday at a nursing home in North Kingstown, R.I. He was 71.
        Father Peterson was chancellor and president of Seton Hall from 1990 to 1996, when he relinquished the position of president. He continued to serve as chancellor until he retired in June.
        Under his leadership, Seton Hall carried out its most successful fund-raising campaign, which raised $115 million in 1995. Other major projects completed during his tenure included the university's $20 million Walsh Library, opened in 1994, and the $18 million Kozlowski Hall, opened in 1997.
        Seton Hall, whose main campus is in South Orange, N.J., is a private university affiliated with the Roman Catholic Church. It has 10,000 students.
        In 1996, the university separated the positions of president and chancellor. Msgr. Robert Sheeran became president, overseeing Seton Hall's day-to-day operations. Father Peterson remained chancellor, handling the university's relations with groups like alumni, higher-education organizations and government agencies.
        A successor to Father Peterson as chancellor has not been named. Monsignor Sheeran is still president but is performing the functions of both president and chancellor.
        A native of Newark, Father Peterson graduated in 1951 from Providence College, in Providence, R.I. In 1956, he was ordained as a priest in the Dominican Order.
        He earned doctorates in philosophy from Aquinas Institute, and in sacred theology from the College of the Immaculate Conception in Washington. He became a philosophy professor as well as an academic administrator and was president of Providence College for 14 years, beginning in 1971. In those years the college began admitting women and enlarged its academic programs.
        Father Peterson is survived by a brother, the Rev. John S. Peterson, of Providence, and several nieces and nephews.
      