
        Charles Rembar, who fought and won some of the most important censorship cases in American law, died Tuesday in the Bronx. He was 85.
        Mr. Rembar defended the publishers of ''Lady Chatterley's Lover,'' ''Tropic of Cancer'' and ''John Cleland's Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure,'' better known as ''Fanny Hill.'' The Fanny Hill case, which he argued before the United States Supreme Court in 1965, effectively ended local bans in an era when postal agents and police seized copies of offending books and magazines.
        When he wrote his own book about the constitutional campaign, ''The End of Obscenity,'' in 1968, The New York Times's reviewer said the title was entirely apt. It was Mr. Rembar, the reviewer, Fred Rodell, wrote, who ''talked our courts, state and federal, into capsizing more than a century of court-blessed censorship.''
        As a lawyer and sometimes as a literary agent, Mr. Rembar represented, among others, Herman Wouk, Saul Steinberg, Louise Erdrich, Michael Dorris and Tom Clancy. One of his first clients when he opened his New York practice in the late 1940's was his younger cousin Norman Mailer.
        Mr. Rembar was an accomplished writer himself. He received a George Polk Memorial Award in journalism for ''The End of Obscenity'' in 1969 (Mr. Mailer won that year, too). A collection of essays, ''Perspective,'' followed in 1975, and a history of American law, ''The Law of the Land,'' in 1980.
        He was also published in The Atlantic Monthly, The New Republic, Esquire, The New York Times and many other publications.
        Mr. Rembar's style was conversational and deft. Alan M. Dershowitz, reviewing ''The Law of the Land'' in The New York Times, said: ''Its pages are vintage Rembar: witty, irreverent, intelligent, anecdotal and very readable. The asides and vignettes are marvelous.''
        He was always writing, his son James said. But except for brief service as the president of Grove Press, which he had represented when it published an unexpurgated edition of D. H. Lawrence's ''Lady Chatterley's Lover,'' Mr. Rembar never left his law practice.
        He represented writers, and occasionally artists, in small book deals and landmark litigation, acting in varying degrees as adviser, attorney and literary agent.
        ''Within our little world he was all over the place,'' his law partner, Frank Curtis, said.
        Mr. Rembar's seven-year fight against the obscenity laws began with the Grove Press case in 1959, when he contested a ban imposed by the Postmaster General and defended by the United States Attorney in Manhattan, who argued that ''Lady Chatterley's Lover'' came within the obscenity laws because its central theme was illicit love ''outside the bounds of matrimony.''
        The federal district court lifted the ban as an impermissible prior restraint.
        Mr. Rembar then took on the defense of Henry Miller's ''Tropic of Cancer,'' banned in dozens of states and cities, and, building on his successes, represented G.P. Putnam's Sons as the publisher of ''Fanny Hill.''
        The Fanny Hill case reached the Supreme Court as a challenge to a ban in Massachusetts, though Mr. Rembar also represented the publisher in a court battle in New York City. The critical issue was whether the book was wholly without redeeming social importance, a standard that the court had established eight years earlier.
        After the justices ruled that ''Fanny Hill,'' first published in 1749, was protected by the First Amendment, no American court in any final decision ever held a book to be obscene.
        In effect, Mr. Rembar established his own rule, as he wrote later, that ''pornography is in the groin of the beholder.''
        Mr. Rembar was born March 12, 1915, in Oceanport, N.J., and grew up in Long Branch, N.J., where his parents ran a hotel in the summer and a cattle farm in the winter. He graduated from Harvard with a bachelor's degree in 1935 and from Columbia University Law School, where he was the managing editor of the law review, in 1938.
        He went to Washington and worked for New Deal agencies, including the Office of Price Administration, before World War II, when he served in the Army Air Corps. He returned to New York in 1946.
        Until he became ill in July, Mr. Rembar went to the offices of Rembar & Curtis every day from his home in Scarsdale, and he remained active in the Century Club in Manhattan. He gave up his tennis game only recently, his son said, ''after what he called 'a pretty good run.' '' Survivors, in addition to James Rembar, of Irvington, N.Y., include his wife, Billie; another son, Lance of Manhattan; and a granddaughter.
      