
        Donald S. Slaiman, a labor union official who worked to get unions more involved in the civil rights movement and rose high in the A.F.L.-C.I.O., died on Tuesday at a hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 81 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was kidney and heart failure said his son Gary.
        After heading the Detroit office of the Jewish Labor Committee and being director of the Michigan Labor Committee for Human Rights, Mr. Slaiman was assistant director of the civil rights department of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations  from 1959 to 1964.
        He became director of the federation's civil rights department in the same year that Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibited discrimination in employment.
        In that job, he worked for the acceptance of minority members as full and equal union members, notably in the building trades. He also helped to coordinate the labor movement's work for civil rights with that of nonlabor organizations. He was also instrumental in the creation of the Labor Council for Latin American Advancement.
        The labor federation's current president, John J. Sweeney, said in a statement that Mr. Slaiman's work on behalf of civil rights and workers' rights had helped shape the modern labor movement.
        Mr. Slaiman went on to be the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s deputy director of organization and field services from 1974 to 1989. From 1979 to 1983, he was concurrently president of the Jewish Labor Committee, a national organization linking the organized Jewish community and the trade union movement.
        From 1989 until his death, he was president and then chairman of Social Democrats USA, a successor to the Socialist Party.
        He was born in the Bronx and attended public schools in New York City. He graduated in 1938 from City College of New York and did graduate work in political science at the University of Michigan and elsewhere.
        He served as an enlisted man in the Army Corps of Engineers in Europe in World War II. Before and after the war, he worked for Bell Aircraft in Buffalo and became active in the United Automobile Workers.
        Besides his son Gary, of McLean, Va., survivors include his wife, the former Marjorie Lawler, whom he married in 1946; another son, Donald, of Columbus, Ohio; two daughters, Tracey Barrentine of Annandale, Va., and Lauren Slaiman of Manhattan; and six grandchildren.
      