
        Dr. Ramzi S. Cotran, an internationally recognized pathologist who helped transform a small clinical program in Boston into one of his profession's premier training grounds, died on Monday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 67.
        The cause was cancer, said Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, where he had been chairman of the department of pathology since 1974. At his death, he also headed the pathology department at Children's Hospital in Boston and served as a professor of pathology at Harvard Medical School. And in 1979, he became the senior author of Robbins Pathologic Basis of Disease, a standard text dating from 1974 that is now used the world over.
        Dr. Cotran taught a generation of aspiring pathologists and produced 180 research papers. Over the years he headed various national and international professional groups not only in pathology but also in nephrology, the branch of medicine dealing with the kidney. He was elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences and to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Ramzi Suliman Cotran was born in Haifa, Palestine, and graduated from the American University of Beirut, where in 1956 he also received his medical degree. He came to the United States for postgraduate training in pathology and nephrology at Boston City Hospital, at its Mallory Institute of Pathology in Boston and at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York.
        He joined the Harvard faculty in 1960 and in 1974 was named pathologist in chief at what was then Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. Under his supervision the clinic maintained its reputation for patient care as it transformed itself into a recognized academic department of Brigham and Women's. In 1990, he assumed the chairmanship at Children's Hospital as well.
        Harvard established a professorship in his honor at the medical school last year and more recently gave him a Lifetime Achievement Award in Mentoring and the Dean's Award for Support and Advancement of Women Faculty.
        Dr. Cotran is survived by his wife of 43 years, Kerstin Larson Cotran; a son, Dr. Paul Cotran of Lexington, Mass.; and three daughters, Dr. Nina Cotran of Lexington, Leila Jacobs of Needham, Mass., and Suzanne Williamson of Falls Church, Va. Also surviving are a sister, Salwa Melka; three brothers, Tewfic, Rafic and Shafic; and 11 grandchildren.
      