
        Geoffrey E. Perry, a British grammar school teacher who used rudimentary equipment to uncover secret details of the Soviet space program during the cold war and later became a trusted consultant to United States government agencies, died on Tuesday near his home in Bude, Cornwall. He was 72.
        The cause was a sudden heart attack, said Max White, a close friend.
        At the Kettering Grammar School in England, Mr. Perry and boys he had trained to interpret satellite signals from a simple radio receiver caused an international stir in 1966, when he announced that the Soviet Union had begun using a third launching site, at Plesetsk in northwest Russia, whose existence was then secret.
        The amateur monitoring program, which eventually outgrew the school and is now an international collaboration called the Kettering Group, went on to become one of the best sources of public information on Soviet satellites as they malfunctioned, fell out of the sky or simply went about their routine business.
        ''He did amazing things with very little equipment,'' said Marcia Smith, a space policy analyst with the Congressional Research Service, which called upon Mr. Perry as a consultant for its reports on the Soviet space program. ''The most important pieces of equipment he had were his brain and his desire to share information with the world.''
        Geoffrey E. Perry was born on August 4, 1927, in Braintree, Essex,  and received a bachelor's degree from Reading University, where he studied physics. He began teaching at Kettering in the early 50's.
        His interest in space was first stirred by a German V-2 rocket that landed near his home in Braintree during World War II. His interest was further piqued by a multinational scientific program called the International Geophysical Year in 1957, which involved much discussion of conditions in space.
        Mr. Perry later said that his reading on that program left him ''mentally prepared'' for the Soviet launching of Sputnik in October 1957. By the early 60's, he was monitoring the radio transmissions of telemetry data from Soviet satellites with amateur radio equipment.
        Much of Mr. Perry's method, said Dr. Jonathan McDowell, an astronomer at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics who also publishes Jonathan's Space Report, revolved around a phenomenon called the Doppler effect. Familiar in causing the rising and falling tones of train whistles as they approach and recede, the phenomenon has a similar effect on radio emissions from satellites.
        ''Your ordinary signal doesn't do that,'' Dr. McDowell said. ''So if you see one of these things Dopplering in and out, it's pretty clear that you've got a satellite.''
        The degree and timing of the rise and fall allowed Mr. Perry to deduce things like changes in satellites' altitudes and other characteristics, Dr. McDowell said. Mr. Perry eventually learned to use other information, like data on the orbits published by American agencies and the coded information the telemetry signals.
        Soon Mr. Perry began ''assigning'' individual satellites to boys at the school, Mr. White said. A principal qualification for the work was a willingness to have dinner at school, Mr. White said. It was during those hours that the Soviet satellites would generally pass over the Soviet Union and transmit data to control stations.
        In 1966, Mr. Perry noticed that Soviet satellites were in a different orbit than usual and were communicating to a new location on the ground. He concluded that the Soviets had begun using a new launching site. After a researcher at the Congressional Research Service read his obscure report on the new site in a trade publication and alerted reporters, ''the world's media descended on Kettering Grammar School,'' Mr. White said.
        In 1978, after a student pointed out irregularities in the motions of a satellite he had been assigned, Mr. Perry predicted the crash of a Soviet nuclear-powered satellite. It plummeted to the ground in Canada.
        The Kettering Group continued to be one of the world's most reliable sources of public information after it left the school upon Mr. Perry's retirement in 1984. It is now a worldwide confederation of amateurs.
        Mr. Perry is survived by his wife, Jean; and by his daughter, Isabel Carmichael.
        The recent opening of previously secret Soviet archives, Dr. McDowell said, revealed the accuracy of much of Mr. Perry's analysis.
        ''He's like the archetypal English amateur expert,'' Dr. McDowell said. ''But at the same time the quality of what he did was better than the professionals.' ''
      