
        Leo Nomellini, the Hall of Fame tackle of the San Francisco 49ers who was renowned for strength and endurance in a National Football League career spanning 14 seasons and 174 consecutive games, died Oct. 17 in Stanford, Calif. He was 76.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, his family said.
        While starring at the University of Minnesota in the years following World War II, Nomellini became known as the Lion. A huge man for his era, at 6 feet 3 inches and 264 pounds, with speed to match his brawn, he lived up to his sobriquet by becoming one of the N.F.L's most fearsome linemen of the 1950's.
        Nomellini was a first-team All-Pro four times on defense and twice on offense and was named to the Pro Bowl 10 times. He never missed a game while playing for the 49ers from 1950 to 1963. A Hall of Fame selection committee chose him at defensive tackle for the N.F.L.'s 50th anniversary team in 1969.
        ''He was as strong as three bulls,'' said Joe Perry, the 49ers fullback who entered pro football's Hall of Fame with Nomellini in 1969. ''He'd slap you on the back and knock you 20 feet.''
        A native of Lucca, Italy, Nomellini was raised in Chicago. Passing up high school sports in order to help support his family by working in a foundry, he played in his first football game while stationed at a Marine base in North Carolina during World War II. After serving in the Pacific, Nomellini became a two-time all-American at Minnesota and was later named to the College Football Hall of Fame.
        Bud Grant, his college teammate and a former coach of the Minnesota Vikings, would tell how Nomellini became known as the Lion. ''We would pull him, we were running the single wing then, and when he'd come around the corner, he would just roar,'' Grant recalled. ''His blocking technique wasn't so great, but he'd just run you over like a truck.''
        When the 49ers joined the N.F.L. in 1950 after playing in the All-America Football Conference, they made Nomellini their first-round draft pick.
        On offense, Nomellini created holes for the star running backs Perry and Hugh McElhenny, and he protected quarterback Y. A. Tittle. But he was best known as a pass rusher.
        ''In his day, he was as good as there was,'' Grant said.
        During the off-season, Nomellini was a popular pro wrestler on the West Coast. After retiring from football, he worked for a title insurance company in the San Francisco Bay area.
        He is survived by a son, Drew; a daughter, Lane Nomellini; a sister, Leona Carlson; and four grandchildren.
        Perhaps the most vivid testament to Nomellini's strength was the story of the muscle-measuring machine he overpowered.
        In 1955, the 49ers brought in a device consisting of two-by-fours, pulleys and wires. Because Nomellini was the strongest man on the team, the machine's inventor, Dr. Jay Bender of Southern Illinois University, asked him to test it. He directed Nomellini to lie on his stomach and pull upon a strap wrapped around one of his legs that was to measure the size of a muscle above the ankle.
        ''The two-by-fours started flying, the wires broke, the scales fell off and the doctor's eyes popped out,'' Lou Spadia, a former 49ers general manager, recalled. ''I remember having to duck pieces of flying wood. Leo just exploded the machine, blew it apart. Bender had to start it all over again, with six-by-sixes instead of two-by-fours, and thicker wires. He made a big mistake in telling Leo to pull as hard as he could.''
      