
        William T. Hurtz, a founder of the trendsetting United Productions of America animation studio, whose career stretched from Walt Disney in the 1930's to ''Rugrats'' in the 1990's, with stops in between for Mr. Magoo, George of the Jungle and Cap'n Crunch, died Oct. 14 at his home in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 81.
        Mr. Hurtz always struggled to bring a sly, witty spirit to his work, said Claudia Hurtz, his daughter. ''He fancied himself an actor with a pencil,'' she said.
        Mr. Hurtz grew up in a well-to-do Chicago family in the Roaring Twenties. His father owned a paint company, his mother was an artist, and the family was eager for him to also study painting. So, from the age of 10, he took regular classes at the Art Institute of Chicago. Three years later, his father died and he and his mother moved to Los Angeles, where he hoped to continue his art studies and forge a career in the growing world of film animation.
        Mr. Hurtz studied at the Chouinard Art Institute, which later became the California Institute of the Arts, or Cal Arts, producing many of the greatest animators in Hollywood history. He was hired in 1938 by Walt Disney Studios, where he worked on the dancing mushroom sequence in the first ''Fantasia'' feature, released in 1940.
        It was Mr. Hurtz, an active member of the Hollywood Cartoonists Union, who made the motion in 1941 to go on strike against Disney. The labor dispute lasted for several months and was credited by many with helping raise the status and wages of animators in Hollywood. At the time, the strike broke down along age lines, with the younger animators taking a more strident line.
        ''The younger people had knocked about during the Depression and they had some kind of social consciousness,'' Mr. Hurtz told an interviewer. ''Whereas the typical kid who was president of his high school cartoon club and got his art education at Disney -- and a very good one it was -- tended to say, 'If it weren't for Walt, I wouldn't be where I am.' ''
        During World War II, Mr. Hurtz was part of the Film Motion Picture Unit of the Army Signal Corps, making animated training films at Hal Roach Studios in Culver City, Calif.
        After the war, he joined with other former Disney animators like John Hubley and Steve Bosustow to form United Productions of America, or U.P.A., which soon became celebrated for its fresh, minimalist style and its sophisticated story lines. The critic Gilbert Seldes, writing in The Saturday Review in 1952, said, ''The best way to identify the quality of the product is to say that every time you see one of their animated cartoons, you are likely to recapture the sensation you had when you first saw 'Steamboat Willie,' '' -- a reference to the 1928 Disney classic. He described that sensation as ''the feeling that something new and wonderful had happened, something almost too good to be true.''
        In 1951, Mr. Hurtz was the layout artist for ''Gerald McBoing-Boing,'' an animated short that won an Academy Award for U.P.A. The idea came from Theodore Geisel, who wrote under the name Dr. Seuss, and who had become a friend of many of the U.P.A. founders during the war. The cartoon came to symbolize the studio's radical, anti-Disney approach to animation. ''Everything about the film is simple, but highly stylized,'' Time magazine reported. ''Bold line drawings, understated motion, striking color and airy design in the spirit of modern poster art.''
        In U.P.A.'s early years, Mr. Hurtz focused on the company's commercial and industrial films. But he was also able to direct some short films of his own, including ''Man Alive!'' (1952) for the American Cancer Society, and ''A Unicorn in the Garden,'' a 1953 production based on a story by James Thurber.
        Mr. Hurtz always considered ''A Unicorn in the Garden'' his finest work, his daughter said. In an effort to duplicate the unfinished look of Thurber's cartoons for The New Yorker magazine, Mr. Hurtz assigned some work on the film to the studio's least competent draftsmen. He was after a ''nice, lumpy look,'' he said.
        Later in the 50's, Mr. Hurtz made animated shorts for Frank Capra's ''Bell Telephone Science Series,'' and directed several animated title sequences, designed by Saul Bass, for such films as ''Around the World in 80 Days'' (1956), ''Anatomy of a Murder'' (1959) and ''Psycho'' (1960). He also made dozens of animated television commercials in the 1950's, mostly for the Shamus Culhane studio.
        In 1959, he moved to Jay Ward Productions, another fledgling animation studio, where he worked until it closed in 1984. He became one of the earliest directors and supervisors on ''The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle,'' ''The Adventures of Hoppity Hooper'' and ''George of the Jungle.'' It was during this period that he directed more than 300 Cap'n Crunch commercials.
        In the early 70's, Mr. Hurtz also co-founded a company that made short animated films about the history of black Americans, including George Washington Carver and Frederick Douglass.
        It was not until after Jay Ward Productions closed that Mr. Hurtz had his sole opportunity to direct an animated feature, ''Little Nemo: Adventures in Slumberland,'' released in 1992. He also served on the Board of Governors of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, and for a while drew storyboards for the ''Rugrats'' animated cartoon series.
        In addition to his daughter, of Van Nuys, he is survived by his wife, Mary, of Van Nuys; a son, Timothy Hurtz, of State College, Pa.; and two grandchildren, Ken Matsubara of Van Nuys and Jeanne Hurtz of State College.
        ''His whole life,'' said Claudia Hurtz, ''what he really loved was to draw, draw, draw.''
      