
        Don Brooks, a harmonica player who recorded widely as a studio musician in New York City, died of leukemia Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan, said his widow, Anne. He was 53 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        Mr. Brooks grew up in Texas and took up the harmonica after hearing an album by the bluesman Sonny Terry. He played in Dallas coffeehouses in the 1960's alongside songwriters like Mance Lipscomb, Lightning Hopkins and Jerry Jeff Walker.
        In 1967, he moved to New York City and became part of a Greenwich Village folk scene that included David Bromberg and John Hammond Jr. He recorded and performed with Judy Collins and Harry Belafonte, and in 1973, he joined the country singer Waylon Jennings's band, in which his harmonica playing helped create the sound of outlaw country music.
        ''He influenced a lot of people,'' said Mickey Raphael, the longtime harmonica player in Willie Nelson's band.
        ''What made him distinctive is the simplicity of his playing and his great tone,'' Mr. Raphael said. ''He played the right thing at the right time. He was also a very rhythmic player. He mastered a technique he called chucking, a popping of the harmonica that sounded like a rim shot on a snare. It can be very useful when you don't want to play a lot of notes all the time, so the harmonica becomes a rhythm instrument. If he didn't invent it, he surely perfected it and passed it on.''
        Mr. Brooks established himself as a leading studio player in New York.
        Through the years, he recorded with Billy Joel, Cyndi Lauper, Carly Simon, the Talking Heads, Ringo Starr, Tim Hardin, the Bee Gees, Diana Ross, Bette Midler and Yoko Ono and the Plastic Ono Band. He was a musician on Broadway in ''Big River'' in 1985 and ''The Gospel at Colonus'' in 1988, and was heard in the Ken Burns public television documentary ''The Civil War.''
        ''My job was always to make other people sound good,'' Mr. Brooks once said. ''Everything I do, everything I play, is the blues.''
        He is survived by his wife; a son, Leonard; and two grandchildren.
      