
        Dr. John E. Ultmann, a cancer expert who advanced doctors' understanding of how treatment should vary with the stage of the disease, died Oct. 23 at his home in Hyde Park, Ill. He was 75.
        The cause was complications from lymphoma, one of his specialties, according to the University of Chicago, where Dr. Ultmann taught and practiced until just a few weeks before his death.
        Dr. Ultmann, who also specialized in the treatment of Hodgkin's disease, was a past director of the university's Cancer Research Center and served on dozens of national and international medical committees. He was a former chairman of the board of scientific counselors for the National Cancer Institute's Division of Cancer Treatment.
        In that last position, which he held from 1976 to 1980, Dr. Ultmann worked to encourage the development of new drugs to treat the disease. He also helped train a generation of cancer researchers, some of whom are now regarded as leaders in the field.
        ''The increased funding of research in the National Institutes of Health and the training of scientists is finally paying off with a body of fundamental information that is now beginning to have a major impact on prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer,'' Dr. Ultmann said in an interview with The Chicago Tribune in 1998. ''The biggest hurdles are the failure to continue to train the best young people to go into basic and clinical research and the failure to make the milieu friendly for scientists.''
        In addition to refining doctors' ability to assess the stages of Hodgkin's disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the 1960's and 1970's, Dr. Ultmann also advocated bringing together experts from different fields of medicine to treat cancer patients. He also helped advance the use of chemotherapy.
        ''In the early 1960's,'' said Dr. Samuel Hellman, former dean of biological sciences at the University of Chicago, ''the general prevailing view was that these were incurable diseases.'' Doctors were told, he said, that they were best off ''trying to palliate symptoms, withholding medications until symptoms occurred.'' Even then, Dr. Hellman said, the drugs were used sparingly.
        With new treatments, Hodgkin's disease now has a cure rate of about 75 percent, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, which is more invasive, has a cure rate of 50 percent to 55 percent, Dr. Hellman said.
        John Ernest Ultmann was born in Vienna on Jan. 6, 1925. Three years later, his family left Austria, ending up in New York in 1938.
        When Mr. Ultmann was 10, according to a biography released by the University of Chicago, his mother died of cancer, and he decided to devote his life to cancer research. He attended the Bronx High School of Science, and after graduating in 1943 was drafted into the Army. He served in the intelligence service and after World War II went to Austria to help identify and interrogate war criminals.
        After his discharge from the Army, he attended Brooklyn and Oberlin Colleges and then the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University.
        Dr. Ultmann began working at the University of Chicago in 1968. He was the author of more than 400 papers. He also was credited with attracting millions of dollars in donations to the university's medical center, much of it from the families of patients he had treated, including a $21 million gift from the family of Richard L. Duchossois, the owner of the Arlington International Racecourse outside Chicago. Dr. Ultmann had treated Mr. Duchossois's wife, Beverly.
        Dr. Ultmann is survived by his wife of 48 years, Ruth, a nurse; two daughters, Dr. Monica Ultmann of St. Louis and Dr. Michelle Ultmann of Pittsburgh, both pediatricians; a son, Barry, of Chicago; and five grandchildren.
      