
        Dr. Robert I. Levy, a former director of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute whose research helped link cholesterol levels with heart disease, died of pancreatic cancer on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 63 and lived in Morristown, N.J.
        ''He would certainly be among a handful of individuals that have contributed to our understanding of the role of cholesterol in heart disease in a very major way over the last two to three decades,'' said Dr. Sidney C. Smith, a professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina and a past president of the American Heart Association.
        Born in 1937 in the Bronx, Dr. Levy was a graduate of the Bronx High School of Science, Cornell University and Yale University School of Medicine. He joined the National Heart, Blood and Lung Institute, part of the National Institutes of Health, in 1963.
        Dr. Levy was one of the researchers at the institute who separated cholesterol into high-density and low-density lipoproteins, the so-called ''good'' and ''bad'' components of cholesterol. ''They were able to begin to work on the roles that these two lipoproteins played,'' Dr. Smith said.
        As the institute's director from 1975 to 1981, Dr. Levy supervised a five-year heart disease study that followed 10,000 people, most with mildly high blood pressure.
        The study showed that substantial reduction in strokes, heart attacks and deaths from heart disease could be achieved through proper care, including a drug that lowered levels of the bad cholesterol. ''It was the first study of a drug that demonstrated that,'' said Dr. Peter Frommer, deputy director emeritus of the institute.
        The Lasker Foundation cited the study as a ''monumental landmark'' in awarding a public health award to the institute in 1980.
        In 1981, Dr. Levy became vice president and dean of the Tufts University School of Medicine, then vice president for health sciences and a professor of medicine at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. He served as president of the Sandoz Research Institute from 1988 to 1992 and joined American Home Products Corporation as president of its Wyeth-Ayerst research division in 1992.
        Most recently, in March 1998, he was named senior vice president for science and technology at American Home Products in Madison.
        He wrote more than 300 scientific articles.
        He is survived by his wife, Ellen; a son, Dr. Andrew Levy of Haifa, Israel; three daughters, Dr. Joanne Levy of Boston, Karen Gooen of Randolph, N.J., and Patricia Zuckerman of Washington; his mother, Sarah Levy of West Orange, N.J., and seven grandchildren.
      