
        George C. Crowley, an engineer and inventor whose work led to 80 patents, including one for the first thermostatically controlled electric blanket, died Jan. 15 in Pinehurst, N. C., after suffering from pneumonia. He was 80 years old.
        After his graduation in 1942 from the University of Notre Dame, where he was a third-string quarterback, Mr. Crowley joined the Navy and was assigned to the General Electric Company, which was engaged in numerous wartime technical projects. It was Mr. Crowley's development work on electrically heated flying suits that would enable pilots to fly above antiaircraft flak that led to his invention of the electric blanket, which was patented by the company.
        Mr. Crowley's later work for G. E. and for the Northern Electric Company brought dozens more patents for other products as well as refinements for blankets. He continued to invent after retiring from Northern Electric in 1982 as executive vice president for research and engineering. When he died, he had a patent pending for a control that would automatically switch off an overheating blanket; he had hoped to provide the device to Japanese manufacturers.
        By the time he was 6 years old, Mr. Crowley was exhibiting his flair for invention, wiring the stairs to his third-floor room to warn of approaching parents, according to David Scott, a son-in-law. By 12 he had rigged a dining room door to open so that his mother could easily pass through carrying armloads of dishes and had made it so the curtains would close when someone flipped on the lights. Sometimes he would induce family members to survey the kitchen ''looking for things he could invent,'' Mr. Scott added.
        For his work in developing a negative temperature coefficient electrical cable, a major improvement in blanket technology, G. E. presented him its Charles A. Coffin Award in 1949, the company's highest honor for an employee.
        The citation spoke of his ''outstanding ingenuity and technical judgment in the design and development of a control circuit which made possible considerable advances'' in blanket quality.
        Mr. Crowley, who was born in Keansburg, N. J., also turned his inventiveness to golf. In 1958, he and a partner, Robert J. Sertl, patented a device for painting balls that used a blower to suspend them in the air while they were sprayed and dried. Other inventions were a tennis-ball bouncer and a device to chase squirrels from bird-feeders, the latter abandoned ''when he began to feel bad for the squirrels'' receiving a one-volt shock, Mr. Scott said.
        Nearly all of the patents belonged to his employers and he never reaped substantial financial benefits. When people would inquire, the genial Mr. Crowley would explain that ''after all, these companies paid my salary,'' which he considered sufficient.
        He also served as board chairman of St. Joseph of the Pines Hospital in Southern Pines, N. C.
        Mr. Crowley is survived by his second wife, the former Barbara Talley, whom he married in 1982, and his four daughters: Ginger Scott, of Hobe Sound, Fla; Susan Brewster, of Key Biscayne, Fla.; Karen Klein, of Cary, N. C.; and Elizabeth Nielsen, of Avon Lake, Ohio. Also surviving are two stepdaughters, eight grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. His marriage to Virginia Kozlowicz ended in divorce.
        Frequently called as an expert witness in lawsuits involving fires said to have been caused by faulty electric blankets -- the real cause was often cigarettes -- Mr. Crowley never doubted the blankets' safety and used them regularly himself. ''He loved them,'' his wife said. ''We have one on our king-size bed right now.''
      