
        Walter Berry, an Austrian bass-baritone who was renowned for his lithe, richly toned interpretations of the German operatic and song repertory, died on Friday at his home in Vienna. He was 71.
        The cause was a heart attack, the Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Berry was born in Vienna on April 8, 1929, and studied for a degree in engineering before deciding to pursue singing and enrolling at the Vienna Academy of Music. In 1950 he joined the Vienna State Opera, where his early successes included portrayals of Almaviva in Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro'' and the title role in Berg's ''Wozzeck.'' In 1952 he made his first appearance at the Salzburg Festival, where he became a regular presence.
        In Vienna and Salzburg, Mr. Berry developed a repertory of more than 100 operatic roles and established an equally strong reputation as a lieder singer. His performances of Schubert and Mahler songs were highly praised, as were his readings of sacred works, from Bach's Passions to Beethoven's Missa Solemnis.
        He also performed in contemporary operas, including Werner Eck's ''Irische Legende'' and Gottfried von Einem's ''Prozess.''
        On the opera stage, Mozart roles were Mr. Berry's specialty: among them, he sang Masetto and Leporello in ''Don Giovanni''; Figaro as well as Almaviva in ''Nozze di Figaro''; Papageno in ''Die Zauberflote''; and Guglielmo and Don Alfonso in ''Cosi Fan Tutte.'' But he was also known for Strauss roles, most notably Ochs in ''Die Rosenkavalier'' and Barak in ''Die Frau ohne Schatten.'' It was as Barak that he made his Metropolitan Opera debut in 1966 and his Covent Garden debut in 1976.
        At the Met, Mr. Berry sang 89 performances of 9 roles from 1966 to 1978. In addition to Barak, Alfonso, Leporello and Ochs, his Met portrayals included Wotan in Wagner's ''Walkure'' and Pizarro in Beethoven's ''Fidelio.''
        Mr. Berry married the mezzo-soprano Christa Ludwig in 1957 and performed with her regularly on stage and on recordings. They divorced in 1971.
        He is survived by his son from his first marriage, Wolfgang, and by his  wife, Brigitte Hohenecker.
        Correction:  November 4, 2000, Saturday  An obituary of the Austrian bass-baritone Walter Berry on Tuesday misidentified his wife, who survives him. She is Elisabeth Flechl; Brigitte Hohenecker was his second wife.
      