
        Fernando Gutierrez Barrios, Mexico's longtime spymaster, the feared chief of its secret police and a formidable figure in the once-dominant Institutional Revolutionary Party, died of a heart attack on Monday in a hospital here. He was 73.
        Mr. Gutierrez Barrios, who had worked for six presidents as the man who kept the secrets of the state, was widely thought to have held dossiers on every important figure in the capital. When he became a leading politician himself later in life, it was as if J. Edgar Hoover, founder of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, had sought and won elective office.
        Like all good spies, Mr. Gutierrez was by reputation an essentially amoral man. With one arm, he embraced Fidel Castro, avatar of Latin American leftists -- whom he once arrested and interrogated -- as ''a man with ideals.'' With the other, he aimed to squeeze the life out of the left in Mexico.
        In more than three decades as a top official, Mr. Gutierrez Barrios, a suave and sophisticated man with an elegant mustache, oversaw the arrests, tortures and murders of dozens, perhaps hundreds, of opponents of the governing party, known as the PRI.
        In the 50's and 60's, as a captain and then chief of the Federal Security Directorate, the old secret police agency, and, from 1970 to 1982 as interior undersecretary, Mr. Gutierrez Barrios tapped the telephones of thousands of political figures, left, right and center. He recruited undergraduates as infiltrators of left-wing groups, paying their tuitions in exchange for information, veterans of the student movements say.
        Historians say he played an important role in the killings of student protesters gathered on Tlatelolco Plaza on Oct. 2, 1968. As many as 300 are believed to have died, though official secrecy continues to obscure the incident.
        As interior secretary under Carlos Salinas de Gortari, president from 1988 to 1994, Mr. Gutierrez Barrios commanded the entire security apparatus, making him in effect the second-most powerful person in Mexico. In those years, the bugging of perceived PRI enemies continued. The new Human Rights Commission found hidden tape recorders in its offices, and officials of the left-of-center Democratic Revolution Party did business from public telephones rather than their tapped office lines.
        As governor of Veracruz from 1986 to 1992 and at his death as a senator, he was a big brother to up-and-coming politicians, as well as a Big Brother to the opposition.
        In his final years, he was one of the leading old-time party hard-liners, one of the dinosaurs, as they are known here. He lived to see the PRI lose the presidency, which the party had held since 1929, in July. And he helped contribute to that process, the first democratic transition of power in modern Mexico. In the past, each president had handpicked his successor. But last year, the party held its first presidential primary, and it chose Mr. Gutierrez Barrios to oversee the integrity of the ballot.
        Throughout the cold war, he worked in liaison with the Mexico City station of the United States Central Intelligence Agency, sharing information and doing favors, former intelligence officials said. At the same time, he kept up his friendship with Mr. Castro, and he gave secret sanctuary to many other Latin American revolutionaries, the officials said.
        His arrest and subsequent embrace of Mr. Castro is the stuff of legend. But it happened.
        In Mexico City in 1956, Mr. Gutierrez Barrios, then 27 and the third-ranking secret-police official, apprehended Mr. Castro, then 29 and illegally in Mexico, leading a band of guerrillas who were plotting to overthrow the Cuban government. But the revolutionary and the secret police officer struck some kind of deal, Mr. Castro was set free, and both went on to achieve great power.
        ''I never considered him to be a criminal,'' Mr. Gutierrez Barrios said in an interview years later, displaying his own brand of moral relativism, ''but a man with ideals who sought to overthrow a dictatorship, and whose crime was to violate the laws of my country.''
        Surviving are his wife, Divina Maria Morales Espinoza, and four children, Fernando, Maria Angelica, Maria Eugenia and Alberto.
      