
        Robert E. Cormier, the author of 18 challenging and critically acclaimed books for young adults, died on Thursday. He was 75 and lived in Leominster, Mass.
        The cause was complications from a blood clot, said a daughter, Chris Cormier Hayes.
        Although several of Mr. Cormier's novels were translated into more than a dozen languages and three were made into movies, he frequently came under attack by individuals and organizations disturbed by his uncompromising realism.
        In ''The Chocolate War'' (1974), for example, Mr. Cormier told the story of a boy's refusal to participate in a fund-raising event at a New England preparatory school, and the resulting furor that shook the small community.
        More than a decade later, an interviewer for The New York Times Book Review asked Mr. Cormier if in such books he was ''sending a depressing message that even savvy teenagers can't possibly outwit or buck 'the system.' ''
        Mr. Cormier replied, ''They can buck it, but they can't beat it.'' He added that the terrible thing was not to try.
        Mr. Cormier also told the interviewer that because of the manipulations and agonies of adolescence, ''I wouldn't go through high school again for all the money in the world.''
        Critics admired ''The Chocolate War.'' Writing for The New York Times Book Review, the novelist Theodore Weesner called it ''masterfully structured and rich in theme.''
        Mr. Cormier was born on Jan. 17, 1925, in Leominster. He graduated from St. Cecilia's School in 1938 and from Leominster High School in 1942. He attended Fitchburg State College in 1943 and 1944, where he was the president of his class.
        Mr. Cormier began to write when he was 12, and soon after, his first poems were published in The Leominster Daily Enterprise. His first story, called ''The Little Things That Count,'' appeared in The Sign, a national Catholic magazine.
        In 1948, he began his career as a journalist, writing first for The Worcester Telegram, and then for The Fitchburg Sentinel. After winning awards for his newspaper articles, Mr. Cormier left journalism in 1978 to work full time on his books.
        His early novels, ''Now and at the Hour'' (1960) and ''A Little Raw on Monday Mornings'' (1963), won critical praise and helped establish Mr. Cormier as a master of novels for young adults.
        In addition to his daughter Ms. Hayes, of Mansfield, Mass., he is survived by his wife, Constance; two other daughters, Renee E. Wheeler of Dalton, Mass., and Bobbie S. Sullivan of Scituate, Mass.; a son, Peter J. Cormier of Sterling, Mass.; and 10 grandchildren.
        For decades, Mr. Cormier accepted telephone calls from young readers who felt lonely or distraught. They discovered he had listed his phone number in ''I Am the Cheese'' (1977), a suspense novel about a teenage boy's search for his parents.
      