
        Jimmie H. Davis, the troubador and composer of one of America's best-loved songs, ''You Are My Sunshine,'' who yodeled and smiled his way into the hearts of Louisiana voters to serve two terms as their Singing Governor, died yesterday at his home in Baton Rouge, La.
        Mr. Davis, who also acted in B westerns and taught history and yodeling at a women's college, was believed to be about 101 years old.
        Various newspaper and magazine articles over the last 70 years said he was born in 1899, 1901, 1902 or 1903. He told The New York Times several years ago that his sharecropper parents could never recall just when he was born -- he was, after all, one of 11 children -- and that he had not had the slightest idea when it really was.
        Nonetheless, in Baton Rouge on Sept. 10, 1999, more than 800 Louisianans from across the state's political spectrum decided he was born in 1899 and decided to celebrate. Mr. Davis, by then quite frail and using a wheelchair, his 6-foot-plus frame seeming smaller than anyone could remember it, heard an outpouring of love for his music and praise of his tenure as governor, from which his budget surpluses were more fondly remembered than his various maneuvers to try to block public school integration ordered by the United States Supreme Court.
        Former Gov. Edwin W. Edwards set the tone that day when he told the audience: ''Just imagine: He served two terms as governor of Louisiana and was never indicted. That's a genuine achievement.''
        Many in the crowd remembered the day in 1960 when Mr. Davis, wearing a white cowboy hat, rode his horse Sunshine up the steps of the Louisiana Capitol to sing the praises of his legislative agenda. Few people, either integrationist or unreconstructed segregationist, held  grudges against Mr. Davis on that day in 1999 for his ineffectual efforts to preserve segregation in Louisiana.
        ''Unlike so many Southern governors, Davis managed the transition so that, however stormy the rhetoric in the state, there was never any violence or closed schools,'' Kevin Fontenot, a historian at Tulane University, told The Washington Post in 1999. ''He has just never been a demagogue or a hater.''
        Not that Mr. Davis was ever totally divorced from the kinds of activities that had earlier marked the storied Statehouse tenures of Huey Long, shot dead in 1935, and his brother, Earl Long, who was committed to a mental hospital. In the 1960's, during his second term as governor, Mr. Davis saw to it that the taxpayers of Louisiana paid for a new Governor's Mansion with 12 bedrooms and 18 bathrooms.
        The Legislature approved the million-dollar mansion after the governor made clear that he would also favor public works projects that might benefit the legislators' districts. In addition, as one legislator told a New York Times reporter, ''The governor made it clear that those who didn't go along with him were through.'' On another occasion, journalists learned that members of the Plainsmen Quartet, who sang with Mr. Davis whenever he hit the campaign trail, turned up in state jobs as ''insurance rate supervisor'' and ''inspector'' in the Louisiana Department of Agriculture.
        On still another occasion, Mr. Davis vetoed right-to-work legislation. This outraged his conservative supporters, who contended that he acted not because he cared about organized labor, but because he wanted to do a favor for James C. Petrillo, then head of the musicians' union, who strongly opposed the legislation. Mr. Davis said there was no truth to the report that Mr. Petrillo had suggested to him that if the veto were not forthcoming, Mr. Davis might not again be able to sing on the radio or in the recording studio.
        But there were solid accomplishments, too. In his first administration, 1944-48, Governor Davis saw to it that drivers of automobiles were finally licensed. Before that, all anyone had to do to drive in Louisiana was to turn on the ignition. Mr. Davis considered the licensing issue so important that he saw to it that he got the first license issued by the state.
        His second administration did not begin until the early 1960's (he was precluded from immediately succeeding himself in 1948). He kept taxes down, took steps to prevent forests from being too rapidly exploited, built hospitals, repaired and created roads, raised teachers' salaries and set up the state's first civil service system.
        He also signed into law segregation bills that were basically designed to give local school boards the power to determine which schools would remain open and which would be closed in the face of federal orders to admit black children. In the South in those days, this was all part of the theory of ''interposition,'' which held that the states could interpose themselves between federal law and the people who found that law too much of a burden.
        But Governor Davis was never regarded as a hard-core racist. He had the reputation for instinctively liking everyone. At the end of the legislative session he would gather friend and foe alike and lead them in singing his hit song ''It Makes No Difference Now.''
        A serious public servant, Mr. Davis was equally serious about show business. He found time to play the singing sidekick of the cowboy hero Charles Staret in B westerns in Hollywood, and he showed up with his guitar in Las Vegas to sing ''You Are My Sunshine'' and his other songs, including ''Bed Bug Blues,'' ''Bear-Cat Papa'' and ''High-Powered Mama.''
        James Houston Davis was born in Quitman, in the red hills of north Louisiana, the son of sharecroppers  who were always in desperate financial straits. As many as 14 Davises lived in a two-room shack, and they all worked long days in the cotton fields. A friend once asked Jimmie  whether his family had an outhouse and he replied, ''No, we had outwoods.''
        He said he did not have a bed to sleep in until he was 9. When his younger sister died because the family could not afford medical care, Jimmie helped his father build her coffin out of wood they found. Later in his life he built the Jimmie Davis Tabernacle, a nondenominational chapel, on a highway south of his birthplace.
        Mr. Davis's father told his children that education was important, that they ought to get as much of it as they could, because if they learned  something, it might be a way out of the poverty they all knew so well.
        Mr. Davis took the advice to heart. After graduating in a class of three from the Beech Springs Consolidated School, he attended high school in Winnfield, Huey Long's hometown, then went to New Orleans to attend a business school. Mr. Davis regarded himself as ''a shouting Baptist'' and so he entered Louisiana College, a Baptist institution in Pineville, going on to earn a master's degree from Louisiana State University.
        He taught briefly in a public school, then, in 1927, joined the faculty of Dodd College, a women's college in Shreveport, where he officially taught history and unofficially taught the finer points of yodeling. He feared yodeling was fading in American music, and felt he ought to try to save it.
        He remained at Dodd a year before taking a job as court clerk in Shreveport, where he remained for most of the 1930's, becoming as interested in pursuing a life of public service as he was in his music.
        Mr. Davis began to write his own songs in the mid-1930's. He could not read or write music, and he had no formal knowledge of chord structure. But he could pick out tunes on the guitar he taught himself to play. A talent scout from RCA Victor Records heard him singing on Shreveport's radio station KWKH  and asked him whether he would like to record, then paid his way to Memphis, where he made trial recordings.
        He attracted attention with songs like ''Nobody's Darling But Mine'' and ''It Makes No Difference Now.'' Mr. Davis's own renditions sold well, and Bing Crosby, Gene Autry, Guy Lombardo and the Andrews Sisters  were attracted to his tunes.
        In the mid-1930's he married Alverna Adams, a member of an old Shreveport family. Miss Adams was a cultured woman who played classical music on the piano, and she began to help him put his music down on paper.
        ''I try out a song on my wife,'' Mr. Davis joked, ''and if she doesn't like it, I rush right out and record it.''
        While his musical career was growing, he continued to explore the possibilities of public office. In 1938 he became Shreveport's commissioner of public safety, the top job in the city's fire and police departments. He got the job by campaigning for it with his guitar and a small singing group.
        After he got the job, he never tired of telling schoolchildren not to jaywalk. He would sing them ''Roundup Time in Heaven,'' a song he had written, inspired by his desire not to see them hit by cars.
        On Feb. 4, 1940, he recorded a song he had only recently completed, called ''You Are My Sunshine.'' It became a big hit. Mr. Davis's recording was immensely popular and so were recordings of the song by Bing Crosby and Gene Autry. King George VI of England heard the song and immediately declared it was his favorite.
        Over the next 60 years ''You Are My Sunshine'' was recorded by more than 350 artists. It sold millions of records and was translated into 30 languages. It is easily one of the world's most recognizable songs. Nearly everyone remembers singing:
        You are my sunshine
        My only sunshine
        You make me happy
        When skies are gray
        You'll never know, dear,
        How much I love you
        Please don't take my sunshine away.
        In 1942, Mr. Davis became public service commissioner, the same job that Huey Long had once held. Two years later, he decided to run for governor, much to the dismay of the remnants of the Long machine, who were trying to hold on to the power they had accumulated 20 years earlier. During the campaign, if anybody asked Mr. Davis where he stood on a particularly contentious issue, he would sing one of his songs.
        ''It's better in a political campaign to give folks very little talking and a whole lot of songs,'' he said.
        When one of his rivals suggested that if elected governor, Mr. Davis would prove fickle and accept an offer to go to Hollywood and make movies, he passed the accusation on to a crowd at a rally and admitted he probably would ''up and go'' to Hollywood, if he got a serious offer.
        ''So would we, Jimmie!'' the crowd roared back, pleading with him to stop the chatter and sing ''You Are My Sunshine'' one more time. Mr. Davis obliged them. He always referred to singing on the campaign trail as ''shucking the corn.''
        He had written a tune called ''Honky Tonk Blues,'' and one of his rivals started calling him ''Honky Tonk Jim.'' Louisiana voters responded by singing the song. In those days, you could hear them singing it all over New Orleans and Baton Rouge. During the 1950's, he continued writing music, some of it inspirational, some of it more earthbound, including ''Supper Time,'' ''Honey in the Rock,'' ''Take My Hand,'' ''Shackles and Chains'' and ''Columbus Stockade Blues.'' He became interested in the music of Louisiana's Cajun country and was widely known for his rendition of ''Colinda.'' He is credited with writing hundreds of songs and recording several dozen albums.
        After Mr. Davis's first term, he continued to concentrate on his music and on his business interests in Shreveport. By then, his music had made him rich. He knew a lot about farming and bought 450 acres of good land near Shreveport. He called that farm his insurance policy. ''When a man's in the business I'm in, things may blow up overnight,'' he said.
        In 1959, he decided to run for governor again but by then, the South was in great pain over the federal initiatives to desegregate. The segregationists backed William Rainach, and the moderates looked to Mayor deLesseps Morrison of New Orleans. When it became clear that Louisiana would not support Mr. Rainach, the segregationists backed Mr. Davis  and he became governor again.
        After his second term, Mr. Davis's admirers were disappointed when in 1968 Gov. John J. McKeithen vetoed a bill that would have made ''You Are My Sunshine'' Louisiana's official song. The ostensible reason was that the song, although sweet and dear to millions, said not a word about Louisiana.
        Also in 1968, a year after his wife Alverna died, Mr. Davis married Anna Gordon, another country singer. In addition to his wife, Mr. Davis is survived by a son, James.
        In 1971, Mr. Davis tried half-heartedly to win a third term as governor, but ran fourth. Six years later the Legislature decreed that ''You Are My Sunshine'' would share honors as state song with ''Give Me Louisiana,'' by Doralice Fontane, which mentions Louisiana repeatedly.
        Asked late in life how he wanted to be remembered, Mr. Davis replied, as ''someone who scattered a little sunshine along his path.''
      