
        Roger Peyrefitte, a prolific French writer who seemed to delight in shocking French literary and social circles by detailing his homosexual adventures in print and by ''outing'' prominent figures in French public life in his romans a clef, died on Sunday at his home in Paris. He was 93.
        Mr. Peyrefitte's first novel, ''Les Amities Particulieres,'' or ''Special Friendships,'' was his best known. A semi-autobiographical story about homosexual love affairs in a French boarding school, it won the prestigious Renaudot Prize in 1945. He also earned some acclaim later for a three-volume biography of Alexander the Great.
        Nonetheless, he often seemed happiest as a literary agent provocateur, using a graceful pen, wit, satire and often explicit sexual descriptions to satisfy ''his immoderate and narcissistic taste for scandal,'' as Philippe Lancon put it in his obituary of Mr. Peyrefitte in Liberation, the left-of-center French daily newspaper.
        Born in Castres in southwestern France on Aug. 17, 1907, Mr. Peyrefitte studied in Roman Catholic schools as a teenager and then graduated from the Institute of Political Science in Paris before entering the diplomatic service in 1931. His first posting took him to Athens.
        He returned to Paris in 1936 and held various minor posts in the government until 1945, when he was dismissed from public service.
        The success of ''Special Friendships'' (denounced by Francois Mauriac as ''disgusting'') enabled him to dedicate himself entirely to writing.
        Drawing on his experiences as a diplomat, he wrote a series of satirical novels about life in the French foreign service, including ''Les Ambassades'' (''Diplomatic Diversions'') and ''La Fin des Ambassades'' (''Diplomatic Conclusions'').
        He caused still further outrage with two books on the inner workings of the Vatican, ''Les Clefs de Saint-Pierre'' (''The Keys of St. Peter'') and ''Les Chevaliers de Malta'' (''The Knights of Malta''), following them with public denunciations of Pope Paul VI for his condemnation of homosexuality.
        ''Often they call me 'the Pope of Homosexuality,' '' Mr. Peyrefitte once boasted.
        In the 1960's he wrote three novels, ''The Jews,'' ''The Americans'' and ''The French,'' which included much gossip about prominent figures in the groups they described.
        ''The Jews'' prompted charges of anti-Semitism from prominent French Jews; ''The Americans'' resulted in a libel suit brought by Marlene Dietrich; and ''The French'' provoked anger in intellectual circles for its unpleasant portraits of several leading writers.
        His desire to proclaim his homosexuality was never clearer than in his publication of his correspondence with Henri de Montherlant, a fellow gay writer.
        Published in 1983 after Montherlant's death, the letters dwell at length on their homosexual activities and yearnings for the pleasures of young men.
        Indeed, in the second volume of his biography of Voltaire, published in 1992, he even asserted that Frederick the Great of Prussia had seduced the young Voltaire. The claim was ridiculed by French historians, but Mr. Peyrefitte had once again become the focus of polemics.
      