
        J. Sinclair Armstrong, a Manhattan banker, lawyer and high government official whose 60-year career in the quiet corridors of power had its most public battle in the fight to stop St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church from building a skyscraper on its Manhattan property in the 1980's, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 85.
        It was after serving in jobs like chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission that he took on the decade-long battle against St. Bartholomew's. The church, on Park Avenue at 50th Street, planned to build a 59-story office building, later scaled down to 47 stories, next to its landmark church building. Mr. Armstrong won his argument that the church, where he was christened in 1916, should be subject to city landmark preservation laws in various lower courts, a position the Supreme Court implicitly accepted by declining to hear the case in March 1991.
        Mr. Armstrong did not mince words. ''To appear hard up, the rector, churchwardens and vestrypersons for a number of years have concealed the true financial condition of the church,'' he told members of the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission in 1985.
        ''In order to give the outward appearance of being poor, they have ostentatiously closed the church on weekdays, thus evading their primary duty of maintaining a house of worship on a continuing basis.''
        His wife, the former Charlotte P. Horwood Faircloth, said Mr. Armstrong savored a fight over principle, sometimes at a loss of comfort in the world of top government jobs, old-line firms and clubs in which he was at home. She mentioned, for example, that he was almost fired as executive vice president of the United States Trust Company because of his membership in a group of businessmen opposed to the Vietnam War.
        Before the St. Bartholomew's fight, Mr. Armstrong became a partner in various law firms, was assistant secretary of the Navy, was an investment banker and for many years was executive secretary and treasurer of the Reed Foundation, which supports domestic and international programs in the arts, social sciences and the law.
        He also held various offices, including chairman, in the English-Speaking Union of the United States. For three years, he was international chairman of the union. The group, which runs scholarly programs and student exchanges, was formed after World War I to promote proper English and the appreciation of Shakespeare.
        James Sinclair Armstrong was born in Manhattan on Oct. 15, 1915. His father was Sinclair Howard Armstrong, a lawyer, who at the time of his death in 1980 was the second-oldest graduate of Princeton University. The younger Mr. Armstrong attended Harvard College, where he was editorial chairman of The Harvard Crimson and a member of the Hasty Pudding Club and the Fox Club. He graduated from Harvard Law School.
        He then joined the Chicago law firm of Isham, Lincoln & Beale, rising to partner. In 1945 and 1946, he was on active duty with the Naval Reserve. He returned to the law firm, where he specialized in corporate securities and was named by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to the S.E.C. in 1953. He was chairman of the agency from 1955 to 1957, and worked for tougher rules for advertising and the selling of stocks and bonds.
        In 1955, he was at the center of a controversy when he refused to testify to House and Senate oversight committees about a New York investment banker suspected of having won a sweetheart deal on a power generation contract involving the Tennessee Valley Authority. Mr. Armstrong told the legislators that Sherman Adams, a top White House aide at the time, who was involved in the case, had told him not to testify. Mr. Adams faced Congressional scrutiny but was not found guilty of anything.
        Mr. Armstrong soon moved on to his next government job. President Eisenhower appointed him assistant secretary of the Navy and comptroller of the Navy Department in 1957. For two years, he strove to bring tight cost controls to the Navy while it was switching to nuclear power, rockets and missiles.
        In 1959, he became executive vice president of the United States Trust Company of New York. His responsibilities included handling the banking for securities and law firms. ''I started in a corporate trust department and made the company a lot of money,'' he said in an interview with The Harvard Law Bulletin.
        He then became a partner in, and later was of counsel to, Whitman, Breed, Abbott & Morgan, where he continued to be involved in securities and banking but also worked in historic preservation law, his passionate cause. He was an independent director of the Barnwell Funds, a group of mutual funds.
        Mr. Armstrong's first three marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Charlotte; his daughters from his first marriage, Katherine A. C. Young of Bronxville, N.Y., and Elisabeth S. Armstrong-Bushey of Deerfield, Mass.; his sons from that marriage, James, of Denver, Stephen, of Hadley, Mass., and Robert, of Vienna, Va.; and eight grandchildren.
        When Mr. Armstrong was involved in the dispute with St. Bartholomew's, of which he was a member, he became active in l'Eglise Francaise du St. Esprit, a small French-language Episcopal church on East 60th Street between Lexington and Park Avenues. He became its senior warden emeritus. He never resigned from the St. Bartholomew's congregation and later returned to worship there.
        Correction:  November 10, 2000, Friday  An obituary yesterday about J. Sinclair Armstrong, a lawyer and investment banker involved in a preservation dispute with St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church in Manhattan, misspelled the name of a mutual fund group with which he was associated. It is Bramwell Capital Management Inc., not the Barnwell Funds.
      