
        Vernel Fournier, a drummer who took part in some of the most modern and far-reaching permutations of small-group jazz as a member of the Ahmad Jamal Trio in the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Saturday in Jackson, Miss. He was 72.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said his daughter Taliah Fournier.
        Mr. Fournier was known for minimalist subtlety. He didn't use complicated drum kits, but his technique was marvelous. On ''Live at the Pershing'' or any of his other Jamal trio records, one quickly notices his precision with brushes, his small tight fills, and his ability to follow Mr. Jamal without losing momentum.
        ''When I heard 'Live at the Pershing,' '' said the drummer Jack DeJohnette, ''I wanted to go out and get brushes, before I even had a drum set. Vernel had that balance of precision and looseness, and just always knew what to play, the right thing to play within the music. He was a master of the understatement.''
        The Jamal trio's use of improvised cues to alter the direction of the music and its creative use of space and dynamics made it an influential group. Miles Davis, the biggest iconoclast in jazz, often cited the trio as one of his biggest inspirations. Yet even among all this fine, small-scale playing, a listener could discern Mr. Fournier's roots in the New Orleans swing of his bass-drum accents.
        Born in New Orleans, Mr. Fournier started on the drums at the age of 10, played in street concerts and parades, and in the fifth grade he was part of a group called the New Orleans Young Swingsters. He studied technique with the prominent early jazz drummer Sidney Montague.
        Mr. Fournier played with the student orchestra while attending Alabama State College before touring with the rhythm and blues band led by King Kolax. In the 1940's he also became part of the New Orleans bebop subculture, playing with Dookie Chase.
        In 1948 Mr. Fournier moved to Chicago. He played with blues and jazz groups, and in 1953 became house drummer at the Bee Hive, a South Side club.
        In 1957 he joined Mr. Jamal's trio. The group got steady work at the Pershing Lounge, then made several popular records in quick succession for the Chess label. ''Live at the Pershing,'' the first of the albums, was released in 1958 and became one of the best-selling jazz records ever, staying on Billboard's album chart for more than two years. Mr. Fournier played with the Jamal trio until 1961 and then played with George Shearing through the mid-60's. While in Chicago, in 1975, he converted to Islam; his Muslim name was Amir Rushdan.
        In 1979 Mr. Fournier moved from Chicago to New York. He was a member of Clifford Jordan's groups, occasionally played with Billy Eckstine and also formed his own trio. He taught drumming at Barry Harris's Jazz Cultural Theater, the New School and the Mannes College of Music.
        In 1994 he suffered a stroke, after which he was confined to a wheelchair and could no longer play. He moved to Mississippi in 1998 to be with his children.
        In addition to his daughter Taliah, of New York, he is survived by another daughter, Renee Howard of Jackson; two sons, Aaron of Escondido, Calif., and Eric of Canton, Miss; three stepchildren; and 12 grandchildren.
      