
        Etienne Aigner, a Hungarian-born belt maker and designer whose line of cordovan accessories with a distinctive omega-shaped logo helped define the preppy look of the 1960's and 70's, died in New York on Sunday, three days before what would have been his 96th birthday. He had homes in New York, Paris and Cannes.
        Mr. Aigner (eh-NYAY), who was born in Ersekujvar, Hungary, in 1904, began working with leather while still a teenager, becoming a bookbinder to support himself. He had a lifelong affinity for working with his hands, said his sister, Betty Zentall.
        Along with his older brother, he moved to Paris in the 1930's and continued binding books until after World War II began. Although he had converted from Judaism to Catholicism in 1938 when he married a Frenchwoman, Mr. Aigner found himself in danger and sought protection by joining forces in 1943 with a group of Resistance fighters in the Massif Central region in France,  Mrs. Zentall said.
        He returned to Paris after the war ended and started turning out handmade handbags and belts, attracting the notice of major fashion houses like Dior, Jacques Fath and Molyneux, which bought his designs and copied them, his sister said.
        In 1950, he moved to New York, where his business prospects seemed better. He began working for a handbag manufacturer but did not take easily to mass production. Eventually, he struck out on his own. Using a corner of his bedroom in Washington Heights as a workroom, he starting making belts, finding that it was more economical to stick with a single color -- a deep red that became the Aigner signature.
        Within a few years, high-end department stores were displaying his bags and belts, and orders were coming in from all over the country. By 1967, when he sold his interest in Etienne Aigner to a company called Villager, the product line included classic pumps and other accessories.
        ''It was a Nantucket lady kind of look, made of this indestructible leather that would wear and wear,'' said Paul Wilmot, a fashion publicist.
        In 1969, Villager was acquired by Jonathan Logan, the dress manufacturer, and the Etienne Aigner brand grew substantially, said Richard J. Schwartz, the former chairman of Jonathan Logan, which was sold in 1984. ''He had developed a wonderful look that we exploited,'' Mr. Schwartz said.
        Mr. Aigner retained the European rights to his name after selling his American business. He continued to work occasionally as a consultant abroad and pursued other creative interests, like painting and cabinetmaking, Mrs. Zentall said.
        In addition to his sister, he is survived by his wife, Suzanne; a daughter, Patricia Bonnet; two grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      