
        L. Sprague de Camp, who wrote over 100 science-fiction and fantasy novels and numerous short stories, died on Monday in Plano, Tex., where he lived. He was 92.
        Mr. de Camp was widely regarded as an imaginative and innovative writer and was an important figure in the heyday of science fiction, from the late 1930's through the late 1940's.
        In those years, John W. Campbell Jr. was the editor in chief of Astounding Science Fiction magazine and the dominant magazine editor in the science-fiction world. It has been said that Mr. Campbell pointed to Mr. de Camp's stories as the paradigm of the new kind of fiction he wished to publish in those early years.
        That new kind of fiction, said  David G. Hartwell, a senior editor at Tor/Forge Books who specializes in science fiction, ''was fiction that took place in seemingly ordinary settings except that they were completely imagined by scientific extrapolation.''
        ''In other words, there was some radical difference from the present world caused by some idea based on a careful and reasonable extrapolation from contemporary science,'' he added.
        As The Independent stated this year, Mr. de Camp was one of a half-dozen ''young, or youngish, writers who in the late 1930's transformed science fiction from tales of whiz-bang galactic pyrotechnics and 'crashing suns' into a genre of mood, character, subtlety, psychological development and reasonably sure-footed plotting.''
        ''In short, the literature of ideas,''  it said.
        Looking back on that era, Frederik Pohl, a science-fiction writer and a friend of Mr. de Camp for more than 50 years as well as a former president of the Science Fiction Writers of America, said: ''One of the things that most pleased me about Sprague's writing in the 1930's and  40's was that his heroes were always people I could recognize as humans and neighbors. They weren't superheroes; they were the boy next door.''
        Mr. de Camp also edited and contributed to a variety of fantasy  stories about a swashbuckling fictional figure, Conan, sometimes known as Conan the Barbarian, whose creator, Robert E. Howard died in 1936.
        Fantasy writing by Mr. de Camp was applauded for its grace and insight when it was included in ''Modern Classics of Fantasy'' (1997), a collection of fantasy stories.
        He also wrote under the pseudonyms Lyman R. Lyon and J. Wellington Wells.
        He was one of the first writers to receive the Grand Master Award from the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America. He also won a World Fantasy Convention Award in 1984 for his achievements.
        Mr. de Camp also wrote historical novels and a variety of nonfiction books. For ''Great Cities of the Ancient World'' (1972), he traveled thousands of miles in more than two years to familiarize himself with 13 ancient sites.
        His historical novel ''The Bronze God of Rhodes'' (1960) put the Colossus of Rhodes in the title role. ''On a clear day,'' Mr. de Camp wrote, ''he could be seen from elevated points on the Asian coast, and mariners a hundred furlongs at sea caught the golden blink of the sun on his gilded crown.''
        Besides working as a writer, he  was also a surveyor, engineer and patent expert.
        A native of New York City, Lyon Sprague de Camp received a bachelor's degree in aeronautical engineering in 1930 from the California Institute of Technology and received a master's degree in 1933 from Stevens Institute of Technology.
        He served in the Navy in World War II and became a lieutenant commander.
        His wife, Catherine Crook de Camp, who edited and was co-author of many of his writings, died in April.
        He is survived by two sons, Lyman Sprague de Camp of Garland, Tex., and Gerard Beekman de Camp of Dallas; three grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; and a brother, Lyman Lyon de Camp.
      