
        Prof. John S. Morrison, a scholar whose boyhood vision of ancient Greek boats known as triremes inspired a modern re-creation of that juggernaut, died on Oct. 25 in London. He was 87.
        An academic and a college administrator, Professor Morrison was a central figure in one of the 20th century's most exhilarating retrievals of lost history. Triremes were known to have enhanced the might of early Phoenician and Corinthian battle fleets, but nobody seemed sure what they were.
        The general perception was that the term referred to three men pulling each oar. Mr. Morrison thought differently and spent years poring over contemporary accounts, artifacts from ancient shipyards and images from coins, murals and vases.
        He amassed evidence that ''trireme'' implied three decks of rowers, working together to put on the legendary speeds achieved by those battleships of yore. Once convinced, he started his quest for a copy, to show its prowess at sea as the swiftest muscle-powered ship ever -- and the deadliest.
        He stated his case in his first book, ''Greek Oared Ships'' in 1968, written with R. T. Williams. It was followed by his ''Long Ships and Round Ships'' in 1980.
        In 1982, Professor Morrison teamed with John Coates, a British naval architect, and Frank Welsh, a banker, to form the Trireme Trust. A contribution from the Greek Navy helped their effort.
        By 1987 in Athens, the trust produced a 45-ton 140-foot battering ram of a trireme, the Olympias. Built with hardwood planks, 25,000 handmade spikes and two square-rigged cruising sails, it was outfitted at the prow with a six-foot bronze-sheathed ram fashioned after an original one found in the Mediterranean. The sails were lowered in battle, and the ram, shaped like the snout of a swordfish, tore into enemy ships below the waterline.
        The Olympias had its sea trials in the Aegean with 170 oarsmen from international rowing clubs. It proved a highly maneuverable reminder of what Greek sea power must have been like more than 2,000 years ago.
        In one account, Greek triremes under the Athenian Themistocles faced an intruding force of 1,000 Persian ships at the decisive battle of Salamis in 480 B.C. The Persian commander, Xerxes, had his own triremes but lost 200 ships in defeat.
        According to historical accounts, the Athenians, with 360 ships under sail, had an advantage with free men at the oars, leaving more space for archers and infantrymen on deck. The Persian slave rowers required squads of armed overseers unavailable for combat, the ancient accounts say.
        The historian Thucydides said triremes could reach speeds that are close to those of today's racing shells. The Olympias and its expert volunteer oarsmen nearly equaled those ancient forerunners.
        John Sinclair Morrison was born in Surrey and received his classical education at Trinity College, Cambridge. He volunteered for the Royal Navy in 1939 and was sent for wartime duty to Cairo, Baghdad, Palestine and Jordan.
        After the war, he led the classics department at Durham University before returning to Trinity as a senior tutor. He later moved to Cambridge University, where he presided at Wolfson College for 14 years, until his retirement in 1980.
        His latest book was the illustrated ''Greek and Roman Oared Warships'' (Oxbow Books, 1996, distributed by the David Brown Book Company).
        Professor Morrison is survived by his wife of 68 years, Elizabeth Sulman Morrison, and three sons and two daughters.
      