
        Richard K. Webel, a landscape architect who designed for museums, colleges, racetracks and corporations, died Nov. 1 at a hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 100 and lived in Glen Head, N.Y.
        Mr. Webel retired in 1995 from his firm, Innocenti & Webel, after practicing for more than six decades.
        He designed the landscaping at places as diverse as the Frick Collection and the American wing of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in Manhattan; Blair House, the presidential guest quarters across the street from the White House; the Governor's Mansion in Albany; Wellesley College in Massachusetts; Sweet Briar College in Virginia; Aqueduct racetrack in Queens; and the United States military cemetery and memorial in the Ardennes region of Belgium.
        He was also a design consultant for the Washington Mall and Lincoln Memorial areas.
        In the 1940's and 1950's, his firm's commissions included some suburban corporate headquarters, and Mr. Webel ''often controlled the siting of buildings, the design of roads, and the planning of recreational amenities and landscape spaces for the newly transported corporate workers,'' according to the book ''Making a Landscape of Continuity: The Practice of Innocenti & Webel'' (1997, Princeton Architectural Press).
        Mr. Webel was a member of New York City's Arts Commission. Among the honors he received were the lifetime achievement award of the Harvard Graduate School of Design in 1992 and a medal from the Garden Club of America.
        His firm, based in Locust Valley, N.Y., is managed by his son, Richard C. Webel.
        Mr. Webel was born in Frankenthal, Germany, and came to the United States with his family before his first birthday; he grew up in the Washington area. He received a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in landscape architecture, both from Harvard. He taught landscape architecture at Harvard from 1930 to 1939.
        His first wife, Janet Darling Webel, who was also a landscape architect, died in 1966.
        Besides his son, who lives in Locust Valley, he is survived by his wife, Pauline Dodge Pratt Webel, whom he married in 1969; two stepsons, Robert G. Pratt of Hendersonville, N.C., and Arthur D. Pratt of Naples, Fla.; a stepdaughter, Pauline P. Brown of Santa Fe, N.M.; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      