
        Jacques Chaban-Delmas, a former French prime minister who tried to embrace social change despite the resistance of his conservative colleagues, died on Friday of a heart attack at his home in Paris, his family said. He was 85.
        Dashing and athletic, Mr. Chaban-Delmas was first a hero in the French Resistance before devoting his life to politics and holding numerous government posts. He was mayor of Bordeaux for nearly 50 years.
        As prime minister from 1969 to 1972 under President Georges Pompidou, he tried to introduce the idea of ''a new society'' in France. But many of his Gaullist colleagues regarded him as a dangerous proponent of socialist ideals and Mr. Pompidou eventually forced him to resign.
        Two years later, when Mr. Pompidou died, Mr. Chaban-Delmas began an unsuccessful effort to become president. Early on, he appeared the clear favorite to win, but his ambitions were dashed when Jacques Chirac -- now president himself -- threw his weight behind another candidate, Valery Giscard d'Estaing, bringing most of the right with him.
        When Mr. Giscard d'Estaing won the election, he rewarded Mr. Chirac by naming him prime minister.
        Defeat was irritating, Mr. Chaban-Delmas told one television interviewer, but ''no politician is finished until he is dead.''
        Politicians from both the left and the right, including Mr. Chirac, praised Mr. Chaban-Delmas this weekend for his work over the years.
        In a statement, Mr. Chirac said Mr. Chaban-Delmas knew how to ''understand the evolutions and new expectations of his time.''
        ''France has lost a great Gaullist, a great Resistance fighter, a great server of the nation,'' Mr. Chirac went on.
        Born in Paris on March 7, 1915,  Jacques-Pierre-Michel Delmas studied political science and the law, then worked as a journalist before joining the army in 1938. He joined the Resistance in 1940 where he used Chaban as his code name. After the war, he legally added it to his name.
        In the Resistance, Mr. Chaban-Delmas reached prominence fast, becoming de Gaulle's personal delegate for northern France in the last months of the 1940-44 occupation, a post he inherited from an officer who had been tortured to death by the Nazis.
        In May 1944, a month before the Allied landings in Normandy, he cycled 150 miles through war-ravaged territory to bring military instructions to Paris. He played a key role in the liberation of Paris, urging the allies to enter the city rather than bypassing it and persuading other Resistance leaders to defer any Parisian uprising until the Allies were close enough to be of help.
        Many credit his efforts for the retaking of the city with a minimum loss of life.
        After the war, Mr. Chaban-Delmas turned to politics. His record in the Resistance and his easy grin won him many victories. In 1946, he ran for Parliament as a Radical Socialist and the next year he became the mayor of Bordeaux.
        In 1947, he joined the newly formed  Gaullist party and became a major force in its left wing.
        He held cabinet posts in several Fourth Republic governments, serving as minister of public works (1954-55), minister of state (1956-57), and defense minister (1957-58).
        He also served as the president of the National Assembly before becoming prime minister and again from 1978 to 1981 and again from 1986 to 1988.
        Nicknamed the ''Duke of Aquitaine,'' Mr. Chaban-Delmas did not step down as mayor of Bordeaux until 1995. In the final years of his tenure, he had faced charges of authoritarianism and misuse of funds.
        In addition, to his political career, he was also the author of three books: ''L'ardeur'' (1975; ''Ardour''); a biography, ''Charles de Gaulle'' (1980); and ''La Liberation'' (1984).
        Mr. Chaban-Delmas was married three times and had four children.
      