
        Sir Steven Runciman, a British historian who wrote stirring narratives of the crusades and the fall of the fabled Byzantine city of Constantinople to the 15th-century Turks, died on Wednesday in Radway, Warwickshire, England. He was 97 and lived in Dumfriesshire, in Scotland.
        Sir Steven, who was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1958, won lasting renown for ''A History of the Crusades,'' a 1,400-page work that came out in three volumes in 1951, 1952 and 1954. It was published by Cambridge University Press, as were many of his books. ''Crusades'' was followed in 1965 by ''The Fall of Constantinople, 1453,'' which also drew high praise.
        Byzantine history and culture were the subject of much of Sir Steven's scholarship over the years. Among his dozen other books were ''Byzantine Style and Civilization'' (1975) and ''The Byzantine Theocracy'' (1977).
        But he treated even more exotic subjects in books like ''The First Bulgarian Empire'' (1930) and ''The White Rajahs'' (1960), which was about a bygone kingdom on the northwest coast of Borneo.
        Critics put his ''History of the Crusades'' in a class by itself. The New York Times said in 1954 that ''this massive and erudite work is without question one of the major feats of contemporary historical writing.'' When Sir Steven's account of the fall of Constantinople appeared, it was also applauded.
        Sir Steven was a lecturer at his alma mater, Cambridge University, from 1932 to 1938 and professor of Byzantine art and history at the University of Istanbul from 1942 to 1945. But for much of his life he was an independent scholar, living on private means and traveling widely.
        Along the way he acquired firm ideas about history writing that he set out in the widely quoted preface to the first volume of his history of the crusades: ''Faced by the mountainous heap of the minutiae of knowledge and awed by the watchful severity of his colleagues, the modern historian too often takes refuge in learned articles or narrowly specialized dissertations. I believe that the supreme duty of the historian is to write history, that is to say, to attempt to record in one sweeping sequence the greater events and movements that have swayed the destinies of man.''
        Sir Steven did that repeatedly, and with such energy and skill that when a volume of his reminiscences, ''A Traveler's Alphabet,'' came out in 1991, Fiona MacCarthy wrote in The Observer, the British weekly newspaper, that among historians he ''has been the great narrator.''
        But that narrative was sometimes grim. Describing the crusaders' hard-won capture of Jerusalem from the Muslims in the year 1099, Sir Steven wrote that the victors, ''maddened by so great a victory after such suffering, rushed through the streets and into the houses and mosques killing all that they met, men, women and children alike.''
        At the end of the work he made a pronouncement that was sweeping as well as grim: ''In the long sequence of interaction and fusion between Orient and Occident out of which our civilization has grown, the crusades were a tragic and destructive episode.''
        Sir Steven voiced equally broad judgments in his book about Constantinople's fall. ''In the days when historians were simple folk,'' the event ''was held to mark the close of the Middle Ages,'' he wrote. ''Nowadays we know too well that the stream of history flows on relentlessly and there is never a barrier across it. There is no point at which we can say that the medieval world changed itself into the modern world.''
        It was a privileged world into which James Cochran Stevenson Runciman was born on July 7, 1903, in the county of Northumberland in northern England. He was the second son of the first Viscount Runciman of Doxford and the former Hilda Stevenson. He was educated at Eton and at Trinity College, Cambridge, where he earned a Master of Arts degree.
        He went on to be a press attache at the British Legation in the Bulgarian capital, Sofia, in 1940 and at the British Embassy in Cairo in 1941. From 1945 to 1947 he was a representative in Athens of the British Council, an organization whose mission is to further understanding of Britain in other lands.
        His books also include ''The Great Church in Captivity'' (1968) and ''Mistra: Byzantine Capital of the Peloponnese'' (1980). His last book was ''A Traveler's Alphabet.''
        Sir Steven was awarded an honorary doctorate from New York University in 1984 and numerous other honorary degrees. The Queen made him a Companion of Honor in 1984.
        He died at the home of two of his survivors, a niece and a great-nephew. His other survivors include the third Viscount Runciman, who is his nephew.
      