
        Herbert Clemens Kraft, an archaeologist whose research threw light on the long reign of the Lenape, New Jersey's earliest inhabitants, died Oct. 31 at his home in Elizabeth, N.J., his birthplace. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Joan Albers Kraft.
        Professor Kraft became emeritus professor of anthropology at Seton Hall two years ago, and continued to lecture and write, a spokesman there said. His latest book, ''The Lenape Indian Heritage: 10,000 B.C. to 2,000 A.D.,'' is scheduled for publication next month.
        Professor Kraft spent his career unraveling the history of the region's Indians. The Lenape, once a nomadic people, settled along the rivers and streams of the region but drifted westward under pressure from arriving Europeans.
        To sort lore from fact, Professor Kraft scoured archives for manuscripts from the Dutch colonists and conducted digs throughout the area, beginning as a boy, his family said. He amassed thousands of artifacts for the Seton Hall University museum, where he was a curator and director. A year ago, the museum mounted an exhibit, ''Remembering the Lenape: New Jersey's First People,'' displaying his research.
        He wrote about a dozen books, including ''The Dutch, the Indians and the Quest for Copper: Pahaquarry and the Old Mine Road'' and ''The Lenape and the Delaware Indians: The Original People of New Jersey, Southeastern New York State, Eastern Pennsylvania,'' which were published by the museum in 1996. He also wrote more than 170 articles.
        Professor Kraft graduated from Seton Hall in 1950 and received master's degrees in history from Seton Hall in 1961 and anthropology from Hunter College in 1969. He joined the anthropology faculty at Seton Hall in 1950.
        He is survived by Mrs. Kraft, his wife of 50 years; three daughters, Linda Richardi of Randolph, N.J., Elizabeth Anna Howanitz of Union, and Joanne Palumbo of Kenilworth; four sons, John T. Kraft of Stanhope, Daniel C. Kraft of Somerset, Gerard F. Kraft of Livingston, and Louis B. Kraft of Edison; two brothers, August L. Kraft of Mantoloking, and E. Karl Kraft of Medford Lakes; and 18 grandchildren.
      