
        Hosea Williams, a field general for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in civil rights clashes of the 1960's, and more recently an Atlanta politician with a talent for confounding friends and enemies alike, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 74 and had been suffering from cancer.
        Rambunctious, fearless and blunt, Mr. Williams was just the man for a certain kind of work in Dr. King's efforts to desegregate the South. Dr. King called him ''my wild man, my Castro,'' and deployed him as heavy artillery to soften up resistance.
        In cities like St. Augustine, Fla., Mr. Williams would recruit volunteers, teach them the elements of nonviolence and exhort them with prayers and shouts of ''Freedom now!'' Then he would take them on the march in defiance of court orders, armed assault and the prospect of jail.
        The theory was that a strong dose of Hosea Williams and his foghorn voice might make white officials more receptive to working something out with the more diplomatic  Andrew Young, chief negotiator for Dr. King's Southern Christian Leadership Council.
        Of all the times that Mr. Williams and his associates put themselves in harm's way, it was one afternoon in Selma, Ala., ''Bloody Sunday'' on  March 7, 1965, which shifted the course of national events at a stroke.
        The council and local advocates had hoped to lead a group of marchers from Selma to Montgomery, the state capital, and to serve Gov. George C. Wallace with petitions demanding voting rights for blacks. By the toss of a coin, Mr. Williams was put at the front of the column alongside John Lewis, who had gone to Selma on his own account; his organization, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, had complained that the council was riding on its coattails and voted not to take part.
        Few if any of the several hundred marchers had expected to get very far toward Montgomery on that first day. They had been warned that the police would enforce a federal court order banning the march. They knew that a state trooper had fatally wounded a young black man, Jimmie Lee Jackson, in an attack on demonstrators a few nights before.
        But even Mr. Williams and Mr. Lewis were not prepared for what they saw as they reached the top of the steeply arched Pettus Bridge over the Alabama River. At the far end, blocking Route 80 out of Selma, dozens of helmeted state troopers equipped with gas masks stood in the road. Behind them was a force of sheriff's deputies in khaki uniforms, and riding among them, a local posse on horseback.
        ''I am Maj. John Cloud of the Alabama state troopers,'' came an amplified voice. ''This is an unlawful march, and it will not be allowed to continue. You are ordered to disperse. You have two minutes.''
        Folding the march back on itself could have caused a panic. Going ahead would have been insane. It was decided to kneel and pray. But it was only one minute before the police forces attacked with clubs, bullwhips and tear gas.
        Mr. Williams said later that he escaped the initial onslaught by vaulting right over the troopers as they bent to club the fallen or kneeling marchers. Mr. Lewis was beaten unconscious by a trooper and suffered a skull fracture but lived to march again and eventually become a congressman from Georgia.
        The crushing of civil rights demonstrations was almost routine by that time. But Selma pierced people's consciousness as nothing had done before. That night, ABC Television interrupted its broadcast of the movie ''Judgment at Nuremberg'' to show footage from Selma.
        A few days later President Lyndon B. Johnson denounced the attack and promised to submit a federal voting  rights bill to Congress. He did so, and it was enacted that August. On March 21, meanwhile, Dr. King and 3,500 people from across America set out from Selma under the protection of the National Guard and covered the 50 miles to Montgomery by March 25.
        It was one of Dr. King's ''ingeniuses,'' Mr. Williams said, that he  found the best use of people's talents. But it was clear that Mr. Williams was born for confrontation; he said so himself, and probably more than anyone else in the hierarchy of Dr. King's council, he believed that shaking up white society was the only sure way to get results.
        Before joining with Dr. King in 1963, he had achieved results of his own in Savannah, Ga., where he lived with his family for many years and moved up through the ranks of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. He had organized night marches, given speeches and inflamed passions to the point where the white establishment made meaningful concessions.
        Mr. Williams became disillusioned, however, when he was told that his family origins would rule out a place on the N.A.A.C.P.'s national board. His parents had not married.
        He went to Dr. King in tears. By early 1964, Mr. Williams was helping to run the Southern Christian Leadership Council's operations in St. Augustine.
        Mr. Williams was standing on the ground just below the motel balcony when Dr. King was killed in Memphis in 1968. In the civil rights diaspora that followed, he styled himself the true heir to the King legacy of revolution.
        Virtually alone among the movement veterans, he continued to hit the pavement. Although he was ousted as executive director of the council in 1979, after forcing the hand of its president, Joseph Lowery, he had established his own political base in Atlanta. He led drives for improved conditions at companies like Coca-Cola and Sears, Roebuck & Company. In his last big hurrah as a street impresario, a campaign demanding jobs and housing for black people in solidly white Forsyth County, Ga., in 1987, he turned out 20,000 marchers after a much smaller group had been pelted with rocks.
        Mr. Williams was elected to the Georgia General Assembly in 1974 and served until 1984, when he resigned to run for the United States Senate against the Democrat Wyche Fowler Jr. Mr. Williams threw around accusations of racism, and lost badly.
        In 1985 he won a seat on the Atlanta City Council, and after one term, served for several years as a De Kalb County commissioner.
        Over the years his behavior as a public personality grew startling.  The man who estimated that he been jailed 125 times for championing civil rights piled up more than 25 arrests for traffic violations, including two charges of leaving the scenes of accidents that led to prison sentences.
        When friends tried to suggest that he might have a drinking problem, he shot back that they had joined the people persecuting him for his defiance of the establishment and his work on behalf of the poor.
        He did work for the poor; among other things, for about 30 years he organized holiday dinners that fed as many as 40,000 destitute and homeless people in a day.
        At the same time, there were questions about the finances of some of his operations -- including the Martin Luther King Jr. People's Church of Love that he founded in 1972 with himself as pastor (he had long since affixed a ''reverend'' to his name for gravitas). A study by The Atlanta Constitution showed that the church, which had no sanctuary, was most visible as the co-sponsor of Georgia's largest bingo operation, grossing as much as $400,000 a year in conjunction with subsidiaries that often filed no tax returns.
        Mr. Williams's wife, the former Juanita Terry, died this year. A son, Hosea II, died of leukemia in 1998. He is survived by a daughter, Elisabeth  Williams-Omilami.
        Hosea Williams was born on Jan. 5, 1926. His mother was a student at a school for the blind in Macon, Ga.; his father, also blind, was a broom-maker. Mr. Williams was reared by his grandparents, Turner and Lela Williams, in Attapulgus, Ga. He said in various interviews that he had to leave town at age 13 after escaping a lynch mob that wanted him for being friendly to a white girl.
        Mr. Williams was living in Attapulgus again when the United States entered World War II. He went to enlist in the army, confident of being rejected because of a rheumatic heart. Instead he was given medical treatment and eventually became a staff sergeant in an all-black unit of Gen. George S. Patton's Third Army, working as a weapons carrier. He suffered head wounds and other injuries from a German bomb attack that killed the other 13 men in his group, and spent more than a year recovering in a hospital in Britain.
        Back home, Mr. Williams completed high school at age 23, earned a bachelor's degree from Morris Brown College in Atlanta, with a major in chemistry; and then earned his master's degree from Atlanta University. He became the first black research chemist hired by the federal government south of the Mason-Dixon line.
        He and his family lived a comfortable middle-class life in Savannah for more than a decade when things begin to sour. Mr. Williams said he hit a racial ceiling at work; and about the same time, he was beginning to feel guilt and then outrage about the acquiescence of black people like himself. He took to dashing off during his half-hour lunch break to deliver speeches in a downtown park, sometimes still wearing his white lab coat. Eventually, he was arrested and jailed. When he got out, he took a year's leave of absence from the Agriculture Department to do civil rights work. He never went back.
        Correction:  November 18, 2000, Saturday  Pictures yesterday with the obituary of Hosea Williams, a top aide to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in the civil rights crusade of the 1960's, carried reversed credits. The picture of the march from Selma, Ala., to Montgomery was from UPI/ Corbis; the one of Mr. Williams alone was by The Associated Press.
      