
        William S. Woodside, a prominent business and civic leader who used his positions as a platform to promote social change in the New York area and nationwide, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 and also had homes in Scottsdale, Ariz., and Litchfield, Conn.
        The cause was lung disease, said his wife, Migs.
        The resume of Mr. Woodside's accomplishments is long. And for a highly successful business leader, his list of interests and causes was eclectic.
        He spent the bulk of his professional career -- a span of 37 years -- at the American Can Company, a blue-chip concern he joined in 1951 as its first economist.
        In 1975, he was named president and chief operating officer. Five years later, he became chairman and chief executive.
        In 1980, Mr. Woodside was named chairman of the Regional Plan Association, a private nonprofit group that makes recommendations on transportation, housing and recreation for New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. He held that position until 1989.
        In the 1980's, Mr. Woodside was an advocate for change in public education. Through American Can and its foundation, which he led, he supported projects on hunger and nutrition. And he was actively involved in developing ideas and plans that led to change in the landscape of the New York metropolitan area, including the reshaping of downtown Brooklyn.
        ''There were very few people in corporate America then or now that were prepared to stand up and express views on social policy issues,'' said Peter B. Goldberg, president and chief executive of the Alliance for Children and Families in Milwaukee. ''The guy was absolutely courageous about expressing views many of his peers would neither share nor express.''
        Richard T. Anderson, president of the New York Building Congress and president of the Regional Plan from 1989 to 1992, said: ''Over all, Bill represented the very best in metropolitan corporate leadership. He was of the old school, that you can't just be a corporate executive. He was very much an action guy. And he used his corporate stature to advance regional cooperation and action.''
        Even as he pushed for social change, Mr. Woodside orchestrated a sweeping reorganization of American Can.
        Hemmed in by high interest rates and high inflation in the late 1970's, Mr. Woodside became convinced that the company's main businesses -- metal and paper packaging products -- were good but not fast-growing businesses.
        The company began to change under William F. May, Mr. Woodside's predecessor. But in the spring of 1981, just months after he had assumed the top jobs at the company, Mr. Woodside startled the business world when he announced that American Can planned to sell its paper and forest products operations and move into new business ventures.
        Gerald Tsai, a successful Wall Street money manager, read news of this change in corporate direction with interest.
        ''I contacted Bill Woodside after I read a story in The New York Times that American Can was going to sell Dixie Cup and wanted to transform the company into a service business,'' Mr. Tsai said. ''I met with him, and he bought Associated Madison, where I was chairman.''
        Mr. Tsai joined American Can in April 1982. Over the next two years, the company spent more than $700 million to acquire six regional insurance companies. It later bought Smith Barney, Harris Upham, the brokerage firm.
        ''Bill Woodside was one of the pioneers in completely restructuring a company, turning it into a financial services company as our economy was changing,'' said Joseph A. Califano Jr., the former Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare who was a longtime American Can board member.
        In 1986, Mr. Tsai succeeded Mr. Woodside as American Can's chairman and chief executive. Reflecting its transformation, the company subsequently changed its name to Primerica.
        In December 1988, a little more than a year after the stock market crash, Primerica was sold to the Commercial Credit Corporation, controlled by Sanford A. Weill, for $1.45 billion. It is now part of Citigroup.
        Mr. Woodside's first marriage ended in divorce, and after he remarried in September 1975 and moved into Manhattan, Mr. Woodside also had the opportunity to deepen his interest and appreciation of art.
        The Whitney Museum of American Art quickly became one of his favorite haunts. He was appointed to the Whitney's board in 1979 and was named president in 1985, a post he held until June 1990.
        Mr. Woodside's tenure at the Whitney coincided with the most turbulent period in the museum's history. Divisions over a proposed expansion and unhappiness among the curatorial staff with the leadership provided by the Whitney's director, Thomas N. Armstrong III, were contentious issues.
        On March 6, 1990, the Whitney's board voted to dismiss Mr. Armstrong from the position he had held for 15 years.
        ''Bill Woodside provided stability and leadership during a difficult time for the museum,'' Joel S. Ehrenkranz, the current president of the Whitney board, said in a statement yesterday.
        In addition to art and archaeology, another of Mr. Woodside's passions was public education -- and the need for business to support it.
        Born in Columbus, Ohio, Mr. Woodside received his high school education at public schools in Baltimore. He then earned a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering from Lehigh University, and a master's degree in economics at Harvard University, where he studied under professors like Joseph Schumpeter, Gottfried Habbler and Wasily Leontief.
        ''He was one of the most extraordinary corporate leaders to focus on education,'' said Mr. Califano, who now heads the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University. ''He saw education as increasingly splitting the country between the haves and the have-nots.''
        Michael D. Usdan, president of the Institute for Educational Leadership in Washington, characterized Mr. Woodside as a ''remarkably multifaceted man who was deeply committed to issues of equity and children's concerns, as well as education.''
        Mr. Woodside was a member of the institute's board from 1987 until his death, and served as chairman from 1987 to 1993.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Woodside is survived by three children, William S. Woodside III, Anne D. Gruzdowich and Samuel T. Woodside; two stepchildren, Geoffrey Dann and Deborah Dann; and six grandchildren.
        Mr. Woodside credited his wife with the development of his social consciousness.
        When he first met his second wife in the early 1970's, the former Migs Bernard was working for Phoenix House, the largest drug-treatment program in New York.
        ''Migs turned me into a real human being with real feelings and concerns about things,'' he once told a reporter. ''Before, I was a rather typical suburbanite who came into New York and went to the theater but who never thought much about the problems of the urban poor or hunger or drug addiction.''
      