
        Curt Siodmak, the novelist, screenwriter and film director who wrote the 1941 film ''The Wolf Man,'' which gave new form to the ancient myth of a man turning into a wolf, adding riveting details like silver bullets, died Sept. 2 at his ranch in Three Rivers, Calif. He was 98.
        His obituary was delayed to research his full role in the creation of the modern image of the werewolf. But ''The Wolf Man'' was only a drop in a vast outpouring of work that included at least 40 film credits in the United States and 18 in Europe, dozens of novels and hundreds of essays, articles and short stories.
        His 1943 novel ''Donovan's Brain,'' about a disembodied brain with malicious intentions, became a cult favorite and is still in print. It was produced on radio by Orson Welles and in the 1940's, 50's and 60's was the acknowledged basis for three movies, as well as for perhaps 50 more that appropriated the basic idea, according to Mr. Siodmak's count.
        Yet it was ''The Wolf Man'' that was honored with a stamp by the United States Post Office three years ago, and it was that movie Mr. Siodmak chose to commemorate when he picked the title for his autobiography, ''Wolf Man's Maker: Memoir of a Hollywood Writer,'' to be published by Scarecrow Press next month.
        ''In my screenplay I delineated a character that has haunted people's fantasies for 2,000 years,'' he wrote.
        He brought to the task a style that caused many to call him the King of B Movies, forever lavishing lycanthropic legend on the hirsute character played by Lon Chaney Jr.
        ''Most of what is today considered standard werewolf lore actually originated with Siodmak in this picture and its two sequels,'' said the International Dictionary of Films and Filmmakers. ''He invented the famous four-line verse ('Even a man who's pure in heart') and the business about silver bullets and full moons.''
        From Mr. Siodmak's perspective, the tale was a metaphor for his own flight from the horrors of Nazi Germany.
        ''I am the Wolf Man,'' he said in an interview last year in Written By, the magazine of the Writers Guild of America, west. ''I was forced into a fate I didn't want: to be a Jew in Germany. I would not have chosen that as my fate. The swastika represents the moon. When the moon comes up, the man doesn't want to murder, but he knows he cannot escape it, the Wolf Man destiny.''
        Born in Dresden on Aug. 10, 1902, Kurt (as his name was originally spelled) Siodmak began to confide the thoughts of a lonely child to paper at an early age, publishing his first short story in a children's magazine when he was 9.
        He worked as a train engineer, earned a doctorate in mathematics and began reporting for a Berlin newspaper. One of his first assignments was an article on the movie that Fritz Lang was secretly producing, ''Metropolis''(1926). He and Henrietta de Perrot, who later became his wife, signed on as extras.
        Mr. Siodmak became part of the German Hollywood, the filmmaking center of Babelsberg in suburban Berlin. There, in 1929, he worked on the film ''Menschen am Sonntag,'' or ''People on Sunday,'' which became known as a masterwork of neorealism even though it predated the neorealism movement.
        The movie became an instant hit in Germany, and soon Mr. Siodmak and his brother Roger, who directed the film, as well as collaborators who included Billy Wilder, had generous contracts from Erich Pommer, the legendary producer of ''The Blue Angel'' and other movies. But suddenly the full terror of Hitler obscured everything and became a source of Mr. Siodmak's images of horror.
        Mr. Siodmak fled to France, then England. In 1937, he joined 1,500 other filmmakers from Babelsberg in Hollywood. His first on-screen credit in the United States was ''Her Jungle Love'' (1938) with Dorothy Lamour,  for Paramount. Then, in 1940, he was hired to work on the screenplay for ''The Invisible Man Returns'' with Vincent Price. ''I fell into a groove,'' he said.
        He went on to write a series of highly original films. ''I Walked With a Zombie'' (1943) is considered a horror film classic, seen by critics as a sly adaptation of Charlotte Bronte's ''Jane Eyre'' set on a Caribbean island with voodoo, music and zombies. But Mr. Siodmak said he never read the book.
        In ''The Beast With Five Fingers'' (1946), Peter Lorre stars in the story of a man at odds with a disembodied hand that tries to strangle him. The other characters cannot see the hand, which in a haunting scene  plays a piano. Mr. Siodmak said the hand represented the character's conscience playing tricks on him.
        Among other films he wrote were ''Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man'' (1943), ''Son of Dracula'' (1943), and  ''The Magnetic Monster'' (1953).
        Besides ''Donovan's Brain,'' Mr. Siodmak's novels included ''Hauser's Memory'' (1968), which was filmed in 1970. Two others, ''Skyport'' (1959) and ''City in the Sky'' (1974), partly inspired the film adaptation of Ian Fleming's ''Moonraker'' in 1979.
        Mr. Siodmak is survived by his wife, Henrietta, and a son, Geoffrey, of Bonsall, Calif.
        Of all the millions of words Mr. Siodmak wrote, he readily acknowledged that the most famous come from ''The Wolf Man'':
        Even a man who's pure in heart
        And says his prayers at night
        May become a wolf when the wolfbane blooms
        And the autumn moon is bright.
        ''That four-liner has been attributed to 'Gypsy folklore,' '' he wrote in his autobiography. ''I made it up. That's how folk history is made.''
        Correction:  November 25, 2000, Saturday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday about Curt Siodmak, the filmmaker who developed the modern werewolf myth, misstated the given name of his brother, who directed the film ''Menschen am Sonntag'' (''People on Sunday''). The brother was Robert Siodmak, not Roger.
        The obituary also quoted incorrectly from a four-line verse from Curt Siodmak's screenplay for the 1941 film ''The Wolf Man.'' The line should have read, ''And says his prayers by night,'' not ''at night.''
      