
        Cal Turner Sr., who began a retailing empire based on the philosophy that no item should cost more than a dollar, died at his home in Scottsville, Ky., on Tuesday. He was 85.
        In 1955, the idea came to Mr. Turner that the success of major department stores' ''Dollar Day'' sales, when many items are priced at a dollar, could keep an entire store in business.
        He converted the Turner Department Store in Springfield, Ky., to the first Dollar General Store. No item cost more than $1.
        The idea grew into the Dollar General Corporation, which now operates more than 4,800 discount stores in 25 states. The company, whose stock became publicly traded in 1968, still keeps things simple, even as the purchasing power of a dollar dwindled: there are only 14 prices, most priced in even dollars, for the 4,500 items sold.
        ''I call it bottom-of-the barrel retailing,'' J. Gary Dennis, an analyst with J. C. Bradford & Company, a Nashville brokerage firm, said in an interview in 1992. ''When the people that shop at Dollar General shop at Wal-Mart, that's kind of top of the ladder for them.''
        In an interview last year with The Tennessean, the Nashville daily, Mr. Turner agreed yet disagreed.
        ''We do serve those people, but we also appeal to the top,'' he said. ''Every millionaire in town comes in, too. Good values bring them in. You have to have quality to build a business.''
        Mr. Turner relinquished the chairmanship of the company in 1989 to his son Cal Jr.
        Hurley Calister Turner was born in Macon County, Tenn., on May 28, 1915. His father, J. L. Turner, a traveling salesman, began liquidating the merchandise of bankrupt general stores during the Depression. The boy would tag along to the close-out sales, helping conduct inventories.
        In October 1939, according to a company biography, Mr. Turner and his father opened J. L. Turner & Son Wholesale, with an initial investment of $5,000 each. Retailing was soon added to the wholesale business.
        ''We realized you had to go directly to the consumer,'' Mr. Turner said on the company's 50th anniversary in 1989. ''We decided we had to have an outlet to get rid of our mistakes.''
        In opening the first dollar store, the idea was to combine cheap prices with simplicity. Toothpaste would be sold only for $1, never $1.25.
        The typical customer might drive miles to Wal-Mart to stock up on supplies, but would come to Dollar General for an emergency roll of toilet paper.
        ''Value is what it's all about,'' Mr. Turner said -- ''getting what you pay for, knowing what you're buying and finding what you're looking for.''
        Mr. Turner is survived by his sons  Cal Jr. of Brentwood, a suburb of Nashville, and Steve of Nashville; his daughters Laura Turner Dugas of Santa Rosa Beach, Fla., and Betty Turner Campbell of Scottsville; eight grandchildren; and 16 great-grandchildren. His wife, Laura Katherine Goad Turner, died in 1988.
        Until recent months, Mr. Turner regularly dropped by the Dollar General store in Scottsville to keep an eye on things. According to The Tennesseean, he told an employee to move a price tag on a display of a Southern candy called Goo Goo's -- three for $1 -- to make it more obvious.
        Correction:  November 21, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about Cal Turner Sr., founder of the Dollar General Corporation, gave an incorrect spelling at one point for the name of the Nashville newspaper in which he was interviewed. It is The Tennessean, not Tennesseean.
      