
        Gordon Rich, an investment banker at Credit Suisse First Boston who constructed some of the largest mergers in corporate history and was known on Wall Street for his irreverent personality, died yesterday. He was 43.
        The cause was injuries Mr. Rich suffered in a car accident early yesterday in South Nyack, N.Y., while he was traveling to his home in Demarest, N.J., a spokesman for Credit Suisse First Boston said. He fell asleep while driving on the New York State Thruway, according to police reports. His wife, Mary Ann, suffered minor injuries.
        Mr. Rich played a crucial role in the highflying world of mergers and acquisitions, negotiating deals on behalf of the corporate raiders of the 1980's and the conglomerates of the 1990's. Mr. Rich's role in the takeover fight for RJR Nabisco is part of  the book ''Barbarians at the Gate,'' which chronicled the battle.
        A graduate of Swarthmore College, Harvard Business School and Harvard Law School, Mr. Rich started his career as a lawyer. He joined First Boston, before it was acquired by Credit Suisse Group, after working for the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.
        Mr. Rich, who was called Gordo, was best known among his colleagues as what many described as a blue-collar investment banker, a sometimes stubborn anti-establishment executive in an industry steeped in tradition. Constantly playing pranks on colleagues, he once checked real estate records to find out how much one of his partners paid for his house. He then broadcast the price over the company's voice-mail system. ''You'd miss a piece of business, and he'd come into your office while you're on the phone and give you a chest bump and say, 'The Yankees won! The Yankees won!' '' said Donald Meltzer, co-head of mergers at Credit Suisse First Boston. ''He reminded us not to take everything so seriously.''
        Nonetheless, Mr. Rich worked long hours, rising at 4 a.m. to fit jogging into a schedule that had him in a plane traveling to visit clients almost as much as it had him on the ground. He was also a competitive tennis player and piano player.
        Mr. Rich was the global co-head of mergers and acquisitions before recently becoming co-head of the media investment banking group in an executive shuffling after Credit Suisse First Boston bought Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Rich is survived by two sons, Max, 12, and Alex, 8.
      