
        Dr. John Hamilton Reynolds, a physicist who helped refine the techniques for dating meteorites and primordial rock formations, died on Nov. 4 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 77.
        The cause was a pulmonary embolism, said the University of California, where he had been a faculty member since 1950. He was chairman of the physics department in the 1980's and became emeritus professor of physics in 1993.
        Dr. Reynolds measured the isotopes of the elements helium, argon and xenon. Such data, in turn, determined the age of terrestrial and celestial rocks.
        In the 1960's, he discovered that an excess of xenon gas trapped in stony meteorites was a vestige of an extinct iodine isotope. Using his highly sensitive mass spectrometer, he estimated the time elapsed from the creation of the isotopes inside a star and the formation of the planetary bodies that spawned the meteorite.
        Such measurements bolstered a reliable chronology for the early solar system. They indicated, for instance, that Earth took shape 120 million to 290 million years after its gas and dust were spewed from a nearby supernova explosion, a surprisingly brief cosmological period.
        Dr. Reynolds developed the spectrometer to study the individual weights of atoms in a meteorite that fell in Richardton, N.D., in 1918. It provided him with a ''cosmic clock'' in 1960 for fixing the age of the elements that made up the solar system.
        In one specimen, Dr. Reynolds found traces of the rare gas xenon 129, a sort of fossil of the extinct radioactive iodine 129. This provided the clue that those elements stopped evolving some 4.9 billion years ago.
        His instrument was able to make detailed studies of the xenon isotope from only a few grams of the meteorite, even though it contained only six-trillionths xenon by weight.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Reynolds led a research team that developed a less cumbersome technique for accurately identifying the age of ''young'' rocks that were a mere million or so years old. At the time, geologists had to rely on the radioactive decay of uranium into lead, but that process worked best for far older formations.
        The new method, using potassium-argon dating, provided a tool for studying continental drift. It also helped scientists seeking to learn the origin, history, age and composition of the moon from lunar samples brought back by Apollo astronauts.
        John Reynolds was born in Cambridge, Mass., and graduated from Harvard in 1943. He received a master's degree in 1948 and a doctorate in 1950 in physics from the University of Chicago.
        At Berkeley, he rose to full professor in 1961. Among his honors, he was elected a fellow of the National Academy of Sciences in 1969 and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1986.
        After retiring from teaching, he continued as a researcher at the Center for Isotropic Geochemistry of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and as a adviser to graduate students in astrophysics.
        Survivors include his wife of 25 years, Ann Burchard Arnold Reynolds; three daughters, Petra Reynolds of San Jose, Calif., Karen Stein of Berkeley and Amy Reynolds of San Francisco; and two sons, Brian and Horace, both of Berkeley.
      