
        Dr. Leon J. Epstein, a pioneer in the treatment of mental illness in the elderly, died Nov. 6 at his home in San Francisco. He was 83.
        The cause was complications from lymphoma, his family said.
        As a professor of psychiatry at the University of California at San Francisco, beginning in the 1960's, Dr. Epstein developed an early interest in geriatric psychiatry, as well as in the use of psychoactive drugs in treating mental illness, said the university's chancellor emeritus, Dr. Julius R. Krevans.
        ''He was one of the first people to advocate the use of pharmaceutical agents as part of treatment, instead of the one-horse town of psychoanalysis,'' Dr. Krevans said. ''And he understood and advocated that when older persons had psychiatric problems it wasn't just because they were old.''
        Dr. Robert N. Butler, former director of the National Institute on Aging, said that before Dr. Epstein and similar-minded psychiatrists turned their attention to the elderly, older people were neglected, relegated to the back wards of state hospitals, because it was thought that there was little point in treating them.
        Dr. Epstein ''helped greatly in focusing on older people and offered a much more positive message of effective diagnosis and treatment,'' said Dr. Butler, who is now the president of the International Longevity Center, a research and policy organization.
        Leon Joseph Epstein was born June 7, 1917, in Jersey City. He earned undergraduate and master's degrees from Vanderbilt, a doctorate in psychology from Peabody College in Nashville and a medical degree from the University of Tennessee at Memphis.
        During World War II, he was a lieutenant commander in the Navy, where he led a team that developed psychological profiling to determine the suitability of people for various roles in combat. From 1956 to 1961, he was chief of research at the California State Department of Mental Hygiene. He joined the faculty at the University of California in 1961, and became a professor emeritus in 1987.
        His marriage to Elayne Cohodes ended in divorce. His second wife, Ellen Buchanan, died in 1995. He is survived by a daughter, Lisa Stanton of Newport Beach, Calif.; a son, David of Tiburon, Calif.; a sister, Frances Miller of Bethesda, Md.; and five grandchildren.
      