
        David R. Williams Jr., an industrialist and engineering innovator whose companies built and operated oil and gas pipelines in North and South America and the Middle East, died on Jan. 15 at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 78.
        The cause was cancer, said his son David R. Williams III.
        David Williams Jr. was a cofounder in 1949 of Williams Brothers, a family company, based in Tulsa, Okla., that became the Williams Companies, the largest pipeline company in North America, in the 1960's. In 1971, he bought the Williams Brothers Engineering Company unit, which he had organized, and gave up his posts as executive vice president and chairman of the executive committee of the Williams Companies. Through a series of mergers, another unit of the parent company later became MCI Worldcom.
        A division of his company managed the Naval Petroleum Reserve in Elk Hill, Calif., and the Johnston Island bomb-testing site in the Pacific for the Atomic Energy Commission. By 1980, after a number of acquisitions and a name change to the United States Filter Corporation, it was one of the largest American engineering companies. U.S. Filter was sold to Ashland Oil in 1981.
        Mr. Williams also supported research and the development of clean coal and coal slurry pipelines. The Black Mesa Pipeline, a unit of Williams Technologies Inc., supplies coal to Southern California Edison.
        His other ventures included a role in reorganizing Canadian Hydrocarbons Ltd. in the late 1950's and reorganizing Knox Glass Inc.
        In the oil shortages of the 1970's, Mr. Williams was active in analyzing the relationship between energy and economic trends. He represented the United States at the Dartmouth Conference, which sponsored meetings of American business executives and Soviet officials.
        Mr. Williams was born in Tulsa and grew up at Mulberry Plantation outside Camden, S.C. He was a graduate of Culver Military Academy and the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale University. During World War II, he flew P-51 Mustangs over Europe.
        He married Pauline W. Bolton of Cleveland in 1944. She died in 1988. In 1990, he married Anne Wright Kerr of East Hampton.
        Survivors include his wife and son, David, of Boston; two daughters, Pauline W. Lampshire, of Camden, S.C., and Rachel W. Zebrowski, of Tulsa; a stepdaughter, Anne Wright Baxter, of Port Reyes, Calif.; two sisters, Martha W. Daniels, of Camden, and Kate W. Tabor, of Washington; a brother, Joseph W. Williams, of Spring Island, S.C.; four granddaughters; a step-granddaughter; and a step-grandson.
      