
        Emil Zatopek, perhaps the greatest distance runner ever and surely the most ungainly, died yesterday in Prague. He was 78 years old.
        Zatopek died in Prague's military hospital, where he was being treated after a stroke in late October, the Czech news agency CTK reported.
        He produced one of the most enduring performances in track and field in the 1952 Helsinki Olympics when Zatopek, a captain in the Czechoslovak Army, won the 5,000 meters, the 10,000 meters and the marathon. No one has achieved that remarkable triple before or since, and it led Roger Bannister, the Englishman who in 1954 ran the first sub-four-minute mile, to call Zatopek ''the greatest athlete of the postwar world.''
        Zatopek (ZAT-oh-peck) looked so awful when he ran -- wobbling, and as if in constant pain -- that it seemed remarkable that he could finish one lap, let alone break 18 world records during a 17-year career. He was also the first to run a 10,000-meter race in less than 29 minutes. Sport magazine called him ''a formless madman.'' But he was part actor as well as part artist, and some of his agony was merely for effect.
        Red Smith, then of The New York Herald-Tribune, described Zatopek's running style: ''Bobbing, weaving, staggering, gyrating, clutching his torso, slinging supplicating glances toward the heavens, he ran like a man with a noose around his neck. He seemed on the verge of strangulation.''
        Zatopek said: ''I was not talented enough to run and smile at the same time.''
        He was a hero to the Czechoslovak people, if not always to the Communist government and its Soviet masters. When the regime turned on him for criticizing the Soviet-led military invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968, the people embraced him even more.
        At 5 feet 8 inches, he raced at 139 pounds, a wiry man with thinning blond hair, a big chest and a hatchet face. He was gracious and honest, with high energy and a quick sense of humor. He spoke nine languages.
        Emil Zatopek was born Sept. 19, 1922, in Koprivnice in northern Moravia, the seventh of eight children of a carpenter. He left home at age 16 and started running at 18 as a shoe-factory apprentice. He was drafted into the army, with primary duties as a runner.
        He thrived on hardships in training. In his early years in the army, he trained at night, wearing combat boots and carrying a flashlight. He would run in place in his bathtub. With 4.4-pound weights strapped to each foot, he would ride a bicycle for hours. To build lung capacity, he would run as far as he could while holding his breath. Once, he did that for so long that he passed out.
        One time, en route to a meet, he stood all the way on a five-hour train ride, nourished only by beef and biscuits. He fell asleep on a streetcar taking him to the track and was awakened just in time to race. He went on to break the world record for 10,000 meters.
        He developed interval training, which all elite runners now use. Instead of running 10,000 meters at a time to prepare for a 10,000-meter race, he might run five repetitions of 200 meters, then 20 repetitions of 400 meters, then five more repetitions of 200 meters, all at speed, with a jog of a minute or so between each repetition. He kept increasing the 400-meter repetitions. Once, for two weeks, he ran 100 of them.
        In the 1948 Olympics in London, he won the gold medal in the 10,000 meters and the silver medal in the 5,000 meters. In the 1952 Olympics in Helsinki, he broke the Olympic records in the three races he won.
        The last of the three was the marathon, which he had never run before. After nine miles of the 26-mile-385-yard race, he caught up to Jim Peters of Britain, the favorite.
        ''Jim,'' Zatopek said, ''is the pace too fast?''
        ''No,'' Peters replied. ''It's not fast enough.''
        So Zatopek increased the pace. Peters could not keep up, developed leg cramps and dropped out. Zatopek won by almost a half-mile, and although he was paraded around the track on the shoulders of Jamaica's 4x400-meter relay team, he was ready to end his marathon career.
        ''The marathon,'' he said afterward, ''is a very boring race.''
        In the 1952 Olympics, coincidentally, Zatopek and his wife, Dana Ingrova Zatopkova, whom he married in 1948, won Olympic gold medals on the same day, he in the men's 5,000 meters and she in the women's javelin throw. The gold medal leaders in track and field in those Olympics were the United States with 15 and the Zatopeks with 4.
        His wife survives him. They had no children.
        Zatopek ran one more marathon, in the 1956 Melbourne Olympics. Doctors advised him not to run because of a hernia operation six weeks earlier, but he ran and finished sixth. Zatopek, nicknamed the Engine after winning an unprecedented 38 10,000-meter races between 1948 and 1954, retired as a runner in 1958.
        Off the track, his personal life took a disastrous turn when he backed the ill-fated government of Alexander Dubcek in Czechoslovakia. In 1969, after Soviet officials and their tanks stamped out the liberals, he was dismissed from his senior position in the military and expelled from the Communist Party.
        He was given menial jobs. But to the embarrassment of the regime, when people recognized him collecting garbage they helped him carry the cans, and when they saw him sweeping the street they helped him push the broom. Later, the government announced he had been rehabilitated, and he eventually worked for the national sports ministry reading foreign sports journals to find tips for Czechoslovak coaches.
        By then, except for jogging to work with his wife, he seldom ran.
        ''Sometimes, I feel I want to run,'' he said. ''Then my body tells me it is 50 years old. I take the easy way instead. We Europeans don't think we have time to go places on foot anymore. Our children take a bus even if they need to go one kilometer.''
        He retired from work at 60. Soon, a degenerative back problem led to a pinched nerve in his neck, leaving him with a limp. But while he insisted that ''in my country, I am just a common man -- nobody,'' Zatopek had achieved a cult status there, and he traveled to many nations, being received as a renowned public figure. In 1975, Zatopek became the first Czechoslovak athlete to be awarded the United Nations' Pierre de Coubertin Prize for promoting fair play.
        ''I try to lead a normal life,'' he said in his later years. ''I want to see the wonderful world around me. I see many people. I see many different things in life. Sportsmen are like children. They don't know anything about life. They know only to train and compete. They meet only other sportsmen.''
      