
        Eugene M. Farber, a California dermatologist who did groundbreaking research on psoriasis and allergies, died on Nov. 10 in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 83 and lived in Portola Valley.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said the Psoriasis Research Institute, which is affiliated with Stanford University. At his death, Dr. Farber was chief investigator and president of the institute, where he had played a leading role since its founding in 1979.
        He had been on the track of psoriasis since his residency at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., where his training focused on skin disease and syphilis. Little was then known of the causes and treatment of psoriasis, which tends to run in families and produces itchy, scaly patches of skin, nor was there a way of dealing effectively with allergic reactions.
        Dr. Farber was a leading investigator in clinical studies that showed the effectiveness of Benadryl, the first antihistamine.
        In 1948, he joined the faculty of Stanford Medical School. Supporting himself with a private practice, he set up a dermatology service there for clinical care and training. In 1951, he was appointed director of the school's dermatology division and given a 4-by-8-foot cubicle for his research.
        For the next three decades, as a professor and chairman of the department of dermatology, he helped build its international reputation as a research and teaching center.
        He published nearly 300 papers and founded the International Symposium on Psoriasis, which first met at Stanford in 1971. He formally retired from teaching in 1986.
        Eugene Mark Farber was born in Buffalo. He graduated in 1939 from Oberlin College and received his medical degree from the University of Buffalo in 1943.
        He was the author, with Lexie Nall, of ''Conquering Psoriasis'' (1997). He also wrote ''Childhood Psoriasis,'' which is to be issued by Manson Publishers in Britain  next year.
        Dr. Farber is survived by his wife of 66 years, Ruth Seiffert Farber; a son, Donald, of Portola Valley; two daughters, Charlotte Farber of Redwood City, Calif., and Nancy F. Szekrenyi of Sunol City, Calif.; a brother, Darwin, of Exeter, N.H.; three sisters, Ruth Wood of Palo Alto, Arlene Ross of Piedmont, Calif., and Evelyn Morgan of Oakland, Calif.; two grandchildren; and one great-grandson.
      