
        Theodore Andre Monod, a distinguished French naturalist and authority on the Sahara, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Versailles, outside Paris. He was 98.
        A member of the French Academy of Sciences and a professor at the National Museum of Natural History in Paris, Dr. Monod discovered and gave his name to some 30 new species of plant and insect life, about 50 crustaceans and several fish.
        During a lifetime spent studying the natural life of the Sahara, he developed an almost mystical relationship with its empty sands and drew spiritual strength from their vastness, once saying, ''You go into the desert the way you enter religious life.''
        Paying tribute to his life and work, the French president, Jacques Chirac, called Dr. Monod ''an immense humanist, a guide and a sage who reminds us at every moment that progress is nothing unless it is in the service of mankind.''
        The son and grandson of Protestant pastors, Dr. Monod said he decided to become a naturalist at the age of 5 after visiting the Jardin des Plantes near his family's home in Paris. He received a doctorate in science at the Sorbonne in 1922 and joined the National Museum of Natural History, becoming a professor there in 1946.
        Dr. Monod became an expert on the crustaceans and fish of the tropical oceans surrounding the Sahara as well as on the desert's own plant and animal life and its prehistory.
        He traveled thousands of miles on foot and by camel across the Sahara, which he described as ''beautiful because it is clean and never dies.'' In 1925 he discovered a rare early human skeleton in Mali dating from neolithic times, known as Asselar Man. He also found and recorded rare prehistoric rock paintings depicting life in the Sahara before it became a desert.
        In 1930 he married Olga Pickova, who survives him, along with three children, Beatrice, Cyrille and Ambroise.
        In 1938 he founded the Institut Francais d'Afrique Noire in Dakar, Senegal's capital, and served as its first director until 1965. During World War II he represented de Gaulle's Free French movement in Senegal, making regular anti-Nazi radio broadcasts and, in 1944, welcoming de Gaulle to Dakar.
        After the war Dr. Monod worked closely with the Belgian physicist Auguste Piccard, developing the world's first bathyscaph, or deep-sea diving machine, and in 1954, off the coast of Dakar, he made a dive of more than 4,000 feet.
        He wrote many books, including an autobiography titled ''Memoires d'un Naturaliste Voyageur'' (1990). He received numerous honors in France and abroad, and in 1961 won the Charles P. Daly Award from the American Geographic Society.
        A pacificist and an ardent defender of animal rights, Dr. Monod was also a vegetarian who never touched alcohol or tobacco. He strongly opposed France's development of nuclear weapons as well as its ambitious atomic energy program, and he organized a protest fast every year on the anniversary of the nuclear attacks against Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
        He opposed bull-fighting and hunting as well. But nothing infuriated him more than the annual Paris-Dakar motor rally, in which scores of rugged, jeep-type vehicles roar off toward the Senegalese capital, churning up the sands of his beloved Sahara.
      