
        Keith Mant, a pathologist who provided evidence from exhumed corpses for the war crimes trials of Nazi doctors after World War II, died on Oct. 11 in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, England. He was 81.
        Evidence that Dr. Mant had collected was used to send a number of Nazis to the gallows. By exhuming remains and then interviewing survivors and suspects, he provided proof that SS members had done experiments like shooting bullets into children's legs in order to examine the onset of gangrene and try out treatment methods.
        Dr. Mant also exhumed the corpses of allied airmen from cemeteries and unmarked graves to see if they had been murdered by the Germans, rather than killed in combat. He found 49 instances in which they had been killed by bullets fired into the base of their skulls.
        After the war, Dr. Mant became one of Britain's most visible pathologists, becoming involved in notorious murder cases. As chief of the department of forensic medicine at Guy's Hospital Medical School in London, he delighted students attending his lectures by puffing on a cigar and displaying actual murder weapons.
        Arthur Keith Mant was born in Purley, Surrey, in 1919. His father represented the 10th generation of lawyers in his family and was disappointed that his son did not follow him into the law, The Independent, a London newspaper, said.
        An excellent rugby player and marksman, he attended St. Mary's Hospital Medical School in London on a rugby scholarship. He studied under Dr. Roche Lynch, a dominant pathologist in the 1920's, who advised students handling an exhumed body in the days before rubber gloves to wear an old suit and push soap under the fingernails to minimize the effects of odor. Even after the advent of rubber gloves, Dr. Mant dutifully followed his teacher's tip on clothing, The Daily Telegraph reported.
        Dr. Mant's first job as a doctor was in obstetrics and gynecology at St. Mary's. He joined the Royal Army Medical Corps in 1944. In November 1945, he was appointed officer in charge of the pathology section of the war crimes investigating team covering northwestern Europe. After the Special Medical Section of the War Crimes Group was created in 1946, he was picked to head it.
        His first assignment was examining the exhumed bodies of Allied airmen and airborne personnel. He concentrated on cases where the Germans involved in the case were either in custody or somewhere they might be arrested.
        Most airmen had been killed in air crashes, but 49 of them appeared to have been executed by what The Independent termed ''the official method of unofficial execution,'' the ''Genickschuss.'' The term literally means ''neck shot,'' but most had been shot at least once in the base of the skull.
        After 1946, Dr. Mant was assigned to concentration camps. His most detailed investigation concerned the women's camp at Ravensbruck. He took more than 100 statements from inmates and staff members, revealing loathsome experiments on children. His evidence formed the basis for some of the prosecutions after the war in 1948.
        In 1948, Dr. Mant joined Keith Simpson, the pathologist who had advised him before he took up his war-crimes assignment, at Guy's Hospital. The two were a close team until Dr. Simpson retired in 1972; Dr. Mant became department head.
        Dr. Simpson, who had investigated 40,000 cases, was a colorful role model for Dr. Mant.
        Dr. Mant also became a respected authority in his own right, testifying for both the prosecution and the defense in many cases. In 1973, he determined that a man found on a building site who was thought to have died of a heart attack had in fact been hit by a stray bullet from an Army range more than 3,000 yards away. In 1977, he found that a woman who had taken an overdose of aspirin and climbed into a freezer had died of cold before the drug took effect.
        Dr. Mant was involved in famous death investigations like the fatal hunger strikes of two Irish revolutionaries, Michael Gaughan in 1974 and Bobby Sands in 1981.
        Dr. Mant often traveled to Richmond, Va., where he had many friends in the chief medical examiner's office. He became friendly with Patricia D. Cornwell, who was doing research for her mystery novels, and advised her on plots.
        ''Dr. Mant has a certain humor and bawdiness which can become quite black,'' Ms. Cornwell told The Independent in 1993. ''You find yourself laughing at the most inappropriate things.''
        His wife, the former Heather Smith, died in 1989. He is survived by two sons and one daughter.
        Dr. Mant enjoyed trout fishing, raised prize winning orchids and was an excellent cook. The Guardian, a Manchester newspaper, said he could carve a roast with consummate skill, but his wife thought it inappropriate. She said he approached the exercise as an autopsy dissection.
      