
        Gerald A. Soffen, a biologist who was chief scientist for the Viking missions that searched for signs of life on Mars in the 1970's, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 74, and associates said he had a heart ailment.
        Dr. Soffen, who lived in Washington, organized and led the science team for the two Viking spacecraft landings on Mars in 1976 and played a major role in developing the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's new astrobiology program for studying life in the universe. For the last decade he was director of university programs at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md.
        Although both Viking spacecraft landed and operated successfully, the first to do so on Mars, they did not find any unambiguous evidence of biological activity in the planet's soil, even after months of analysis by on-board life-detection apparatus. It was a disappointment for Dr. Soffen, but not the end of hope and effort.
        ''I began with a very optimistic view of the chances for life on Mars,'' he said after the mission results were reported. ''I now believe that it is very unlikely.''
        Having said that, however, Dr. Soffen cautioned that Martian life should not be ruled out at least until the polar regions and other places where there was evidence of water, now or in the past, had been thoroughly explored. Viking 2's orbiter discovered that the permanent ice cap over the north pole was mostly frozen water. Photography revealed that other landscapes, though dry and cold now, had apparently been eroded by past floods.
        ''I have always believed,'' Dr. Soffen added, ''that in the search for life you must go where the water is.''
        As subsequent spacecraft have discovered more evidence of a warmer and wetter Martian environment in the past, the currently revived program of Mars exploration has concentrated on searches for dry lake and river beds or other places where water appeared to flow in earlier epochs. It is thought that these places could still harbor some forms of simple life, or hold fossils of former organisms.
        Daniel S. Goldin, the NASA administrator, said Dr. Soffen's ''pioneering work on the Viking missions paved the way'' for the creation of the agency's new and broader emphasis on the study of the origin, evolution and distribution of life in the universe.
        Gerald Alan Soffen was born in Cleveland on Feb. 7, 1926. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of California at Los Angeles and earned his doctorate in biology from Princeton University. He worked for NASA for more than 30 years.
        His first job with the agency was at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., where he managed the development of biological instruments for space flight. It was the kind of experience that put him in line to be the chief project scientist for the two Viking missions. He was then based at NASA's Langley Research Center in Hampton, Va., where mission planning was being directed.
        In 1978, Dr. Soffen became the director of life sciences at NASA headquarters. In that position, he directed programs for the medical care and research involving the space shuttle astronauts, and oversaw early research in extraterrestrial biology. At the Goddard center, his work took a more terrestrial turn. He helped to establish Mission to Planet Earth, a program of research and spacecraft observations of the dynamics of the global environment.
        Dr. Soffen is survived by his wife, Kazuko A. Soffen of Washington, and a sister, Nancy Guy, who lives in California. His first wife, Hoshi Soffen, died in 1978.
        A former colleague at the Langley center, A. G. Price, recalled that at the time of his death, Dr. Soffen was making plans for a 25th anniversary celebration of the Viking landings on Mars. Mr. Price said that his friend ''never tired of pursuing his passion, the search for extraterrestrial life and the understanding of our universe.''
      