
        Dr. Louis S. Goodman, a renowned pharmacologist, a discoverer of the first effective anticancer chemotherapy and a creator of a textbook used by generations of doctors, died at his home in Salt Lake City on Nov. 19. He was 94 and had taught for many years at the University of Utah.
        In Salt Lake City in 1946, Dr. Goodman also supervised a daring experiment in which his team totally and temporarily paralyzed a colleague with curare, the muscle relaxant that South American Indians used as a poison. Until then, few doctors had used curare in patients for fear that it produced permanent paralysis. That and other experiments helped widen use of curare and similar drugs, greatly increasing the safety of anesthesia and allowing surgeons to develop new operations.
        In cancer chemotherapy, the first effective drug was nitrogen mustard. Dr. Goodman, Dr. Alfred Gilman and others discovered its benefits while doing research at Yale under the cloak of wartime secrecy. While investigating chemical warfare agents in 1942, Dr. Goodman's team noted that the blood of soldiers exposed to nitrogen mustard had abnormally low levels of white cells.
        Reasoning that nitrogen mustard might open new avenues beyond surgery and radiation, then the only effective anticancer therapies, Dr. Goodman's team found that the substance produced a profound effect in mice. When the team tested nitrogen mustard in a man whose lymphoma cancer had become resistant to radiation, the patient responded as well as the mouse.
        Further tests were equally effective among 67 patients with lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease and leukemia who had not responded to radiation or for whom radiation was no longer effective.
        In 1946, the government gave Dr. Goodman's team permission to publish the first paper on the use of nitrogen mustard in cancer treatment. Nitrogen mustard became a model for the discovery of other classes of anticancer drugs, and chemotherapy went on to become a standard treatment for many cancers, often in combination with surgery and radiation.
        Dr. Goodman said his most important contribution was a textbook that he wrote, and later edited, with Dr. Gilman. Generations of medical students have relied on the textbook, now known as ''Goodman and Gilman's The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics.'' It is now in its ninth edition and has been translated into nine languages. Dr. Gilman's son, Dr. Alfred Goodman Gilman, a Nobel Prize winner at the University of Texas Southwestern in Dallas, is an editor of the current edition.
        Dr. Goodman often recalled that in the 1940's pharmacology was in terrible repute, and many medical schools did not offer it as a course.  ''When I was at Yale, the Harvard and Yale students used to argue as to which school had the worst course in pharmacology,'' he said.
        When Dr. Goodman and Dr. Gilman turned in their handwritten manuscript, the publisher, the Macmillan Company, was upset because the manuscript was more than twice the 500 pages it wanted. The 1,200-page first edition in 1941 was extremely expensive, selling for $12.50, the equivalent of $145 today.
        Macmillan cautiously printed 3,000 copies and promised the authors a case of Scotch if it sold out in four years. It did in six weeks and eventually sold more than 86,000 copies, in part because the emphasis on the history of each drug's development made it highly readable. Many experts credit the first edition for establishing the discipline of pharmacology and strengthening its relevance to clinical medicine.
        A look back at the first edition reveals how much drug therapy has advanced in 60 years. Three chapters described the treatment of syphilis with arsenic, bismuth and mercury -- the only treatments available then. For cancer, the only cursory references dealt with pain relief, Dr. Alfred G. Gilman said.
        The second edition, in 1955, described nitrogen mustard and other anticancer drugs, the first effective treatments for high blood pressure, the arrival of antihistamines, new diuretics and the first antibiotics: penicillin, streptomycin, tetracycline and chloramphenicol.
        Louis Sanford Goodman was born in Portland, Ore., on Aug. 27, 1906. He graduated from Reed College in 1928, the University of Oregon Medical School in 1932, and interned at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. Then Dr. Goodman moved to Yale to study and later teach pharmacology.
        In 1943, Dr. Goodman became chairman of pharmacology and physiology at the University of Vermont. The next year he moved to Salt Lake City to become the founding chairman of the department of pharmacology and to help build Utah into a full-fledged medical school. He retired as chairman in 1971.
        Dr. Goodman's wife of 62 years, the former Helen Ricen, died in 1996. He is survived by two daughters, Carolyn Turkanis of Salt Lake City and Debora Goodman of Seattle; a brother, Dr. Morton Goodman of Portland, Ore.; and four grandchildren.
        Dr. Goodman had a great talent in studying the reaction of drugs on the body, particularly the central nervous system. In addition to cancer drugs, Dr. Goodman was an authority on those for epileptic seizures.
        The curare experiment was performed on Dr. Scott M. Smith, Utah's chairman of anesthesiology, who was fully conscious as Dr. Goodman's team stuck his skin with pins to test his reaction to pain and performed other experiments. Using signals devised by Dr. Goodman, Dr. Smith answered questions with eye blinks to check his mental functions.
        About a half-hour after curare was injected, Dr. Smith's respiratory muscles stopped working and Dr. Goodman's team squeezed a rubber bag to breathe for him. The experiment showed that curare did not alter consciousness but that additional anesthetics were needed because curare did not kill pain.
        In 1949, Dr. Goodman created the journal Pharmacological Reviews for the American Society of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics and edited it for five years.
        Dr. Goodman was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, served on many committees for the National Institutes of Health and was a consultant to eight drug companies. Some companies provided unrestricted grants that Dr. Goodman said were important to his department at Utah.
        As a teacher and department leader, Dr. Goodman sat in the back row as he monitored all lectures given by his faculty. ''If you didn't do well, you heard about it,'' said Dr. James W. Gibb, a successor to Dr. Goodman as chairman of Utah's pharmacology department.
        Dr. Goodman had a keen wit and a sometimes gruff nature. In a letter to Dr. Gilman in 1964, Dr. Goodman suggested dismissing an author for the textbook. ''I am ready to blow my top,'' Dr. Goodman said. ''The chapter is an aborted mess. He is either a stupid jerk, a not-too-clever fraud, or both.'' The writer knew little about drug therapy, Dr. Goodman said, and ''even my secretary agrees.''
      