
        Bob Squier, one of the originators of modern political imagery and a close friend and adviser of Vice President Al Gore, died today after a six-month battle with colon cancer. He was 65 and lived in Millwood, Va.
        Mr. Squier brought his background as a documentary filmmaker with a fascination with American literary figures to his path-breaking role as political manipulator and marketer. His advertisements, always for Democrats, were marked by sharp-edged wit and a direct approach that contrasted with the gauzy morning-in-America style.
        His clients included Hubert H. Humphrey in 1968, Jimmy Carter in 1976 and President Clinton and Mr. Gore in 1992 and 1996. He worked on dozens of Senate and governor contests and compiled a win-loss record envied by his competitors.
        ''His loyalty, talent and, above all, his perseverance helped Vice President Gore and me craft a winning re-election campaign when many had counted us out,'' President Clinton said today. ''I owe him much.''
        Mr. Squier trained many of today's  most prominent political consultants and was one of the first celebrity political advisers, winning a steady spot as a commentator on the NBC's ''Today'' program in the 1980's.
        ''He was a pioneer in this business of political communications,'' said Bill Knapp, a partner of Mr. Squier in the consulting firm Squier Knapp Dunn. ''He helped create the modern campaign, for better or for worse.''
        Many of the legends of late-20th century politics were captured in Mr. Squier's camera and transformed into a form of visual persuasion that defines political speech in the modern era.
        Mr. Squier filmed a young politician named Bob Graham as he spent a day working as a teacher, a laborer, a farmer and an egg-packer to convince Florida voters that he was a regular guy who understood their concerns. They rewarded him with the governorship and, later, a seat in the United States Senate.
        Mr. Squier also captured dozens of Mr. Gore's town meetings in Tennessee, turning them into a record of contact with voters that propelled Mr. Gore into the Senate and the vice presidency.
        As the 1990's dawned and a younger crowd of consultants was making its mark in politics, some Democrats whispered that Mr. Squier had lost his edge. But Mr. Gore stuck with him and used him as a consultant in the 1992 presidential campaign.
        His advertisements for the Clinton-Gore ticket in 1996 visually linked the Republican nominee Bob Dole to the unpopular Speaker Newt Gingrich and buried the Dole campaign before it had a chance to get off the ground.
        ''It was the first time paid advertising made a decisive difference in a presidential campaign,'' said Ronald Klain, Mr. Gore's former chief of staff.
        Although he had worked with Mr. Gore almost from the beginning of the vice president's political career, Mr. Squier's role in the Gore campaign sharply diminished last summer after Mr. Gore brought in Carter Eskew as a top adviser.
        Mr. Eskew and Mr. Squier had a bitter and well-publicized falling out in 1992 and refused to work together -- or even speak to each other. But Mr. Gore continued to quietly seek Mr. Squier's counsel until illness incapacitated Mr. Squier a few weeks ago, aides said.
        Mr. Eskew, who remains on the Gore campaign as senior media strategist, said Mr. Squier was an innovator to whom American politics owes a large debt.
        ''Bob understood that campaigns were dialogues and that a lot of that dialogue takes place through advertising,'' Mr. Eskew said. ''I had some obvious differences with him professionally but I had the greatest times of my life with him as well.''
        Another Squier partner, Anita Dunn, is the chief communications consultant in the campaign of Mr. Gore's Democratic rival, former Senator Bill Bradley.
        Mr. Squier was born in Brainard, Minn., on Sept. 21, 1934, and reared in Minneapolis. He was a top high school and collegiate swimmer and set a National Collegiate Athletic Association record for the butterfly when the stroke was still accompanied by a frog-kick, rather than the current dolphinlike method of propulsion.
        He studied communications at the University of Minnesota and learned documentary filmmaking there and then at the public television stations WGBH in Boston and KLRN in Austin, Tex.
        Mr. Squier made documentaries about President Lyndon B. Johnson after the Kennedy assassination and filmed award-winning biographies of Herman Melville and William Faulkner before turning his transforming eye toward electoral politics.
        His sons by his first marriage, Robert Squier and Mark Squier, followed their father into the business of political persuasion. Mark is a partner in a political consulting firm; Robert is a professional musician who produces music tracks for commercial films and political advertisements.
        Mr. Squier is also survived by his wife, Prudence, and three grandchildren.
        He died at his farm in the Virginia horse country west of Washington where he tended a garden and a small vineyard. Although Mr. Squier was a collector of art, a connoisseur of first-class travel and something of a clothes horse, he could not master his little vineyard, Mr. Knapp said.
        ''He planted it, hoed it, watered it,'' Mr. Knapp said, ''and produced some of the worst wine imaginable.''
      