
        David R. Hunter, an innovative matchmaker between progressive charities and liberal philanthropists who used a small family foundation to help bring widespread recognition to causes that had been little known, like protecting battered women and promoting environmental justice, died on Saturday in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 84.
        He was executive director of the Stern Fund, a liberal, Manhattan-based foundation, from 1963 until it ceased operations in 1986.
        It was founded in 1936 by Edith Stern, daughter of the Sears Roebuck executive Julius Rosenwald, and her husband, Edgar Stern, with the mission of supporting causes like voting rights and civil rights. It gave away $25 million and ceased operations in 1986 after, as planned by its founders, it had run out of money.
        For years, Mr. Hunter viewed philanthropy as a way to redistribute wealth and power. The Stern Fund was an early backer of causes like black voter registration in the South, the anti-nuclear movement and public-interest law firms. It also spurred the efforts of shareholders seeking more socially responsible corporate policies.
        Vincent McGee, the vice president of the Irene Diamond Fund, another Manhattan-based foundation, which supports AIDS research, minority education and gun control, credited Mr. Hunter with changing philanthropy, especially by ''supporting ideas rather than institutions and giving newcomers, minorities, young people a chance.''
        Mr. Hunter advised other foundations and individuals with similar views and often found donors for struggling charities among his wide network of contacts.
        He was persuasive in influencing a generation of young philanthropists with inherited wealth.
        A young flour heir and philanthropist, George Pillsbury, said in a 1984 interview, ''He's the father, or grandfather, or, if you are conspiratorially minded, he's the godfather of progressive philanthropy.''
        But Mr. Hunter said he was ''just a functionary.''
        From the 1960's to the 1980's, he was also the director of the Ottinger Foundation, which is also in Manhattan.
        Idealism and helping people were part of Mr. Hunter's heritage. He was born in Evanston, Ill., and grew up in Chicago and California. His father was a Presbyterian minister and a social worker. His mother was a Montessori teacher. He studied at the University of Colorado and at Berkeley and received a master's degree in social work from the University of Chicago.
        He had a variety of jobs with nonprofit organizations and in government. He was with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration in Europe, helping refugees. Later he worked for Unicef for a decade that included two years in Mexico.
        From 1959 to 1963, he was a program officer with the Ford Foundation in Manhattan. He was part of a small group of colleagues who designed urban anti-poverty programs. He also wrote a book, ''The Slums: Challenge and Response,'' which came out in 1964.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Avallon, whom he married in 1954; two stepsons, Steven L. Moss of Great Neck, N.Y., and Daniel A. Moss of Oakland, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      