
        Below a movie screen -- flickering with images from films like ''The 400 Blows'' and ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' -- friends and associates of Vincent Canby delivered their reviews of the life and long career of the former film and drama critic for The New York Times. Mr. Canby died of cancer on Oct. 15 at age 76.
        The people who crowded yesterday into the Roy and Niuta Titus Theater I at the Museum of Modern Art offered tributes to a man whose giant movie screen image briefly stared down at the audience with a slight smile of bemusement, his hand pressed against his cheek.
        Woody Allen sent a letter to be read expressing his gratitude: ''If it were not for Vincent Canby, I wouldn't have a career in films.'' The veteran French film actress Jeanne Moreau sent a note praising Mr. Canby for film criticism that raised the profile of New Wave French cinema. Al Hirschfeld, the cartoonist, praised Mr. Canby for developing theater criticism into a lively art through his taste and ''personal integrity.''
        Mr. Canby worked for The New York Times for more than 35 years, reviewing films for the newspaper after he stared there in 1965 and then late in life shifting roles in 1993 to become the Sunday theater critic.
        The novelist William Styron said that he had probably known Mr. Canby longer than any of the other mourners. The two men were students together at the Christchurch School in Christchurch, Va., a boarding school struggling to survive in the Depression with a dwindling number of students. Mr. Styron said Mr. Canby was a scholarship student who introduced him to the literature of authors like E. B. White and Ernest Hemingway. Together, he said, the two students hitchhiked to Richmond to buy a $3.50 copy of ''For Whom the Bell Tolls.''
        In later years, Mr. Styron said, they lost contact although they did meet occasionally. But from his writing, Mr. Styron said, Mr. Canby shared his civilized voice and ''resolute high standards that he brought to all his work, which may have been nurtured in that impoverished Southern boarding school.''
        That voice still pervaded the theater through film clips that were shown to an audience that included the movie producer Harvey Weinstein and Renata Adler, whom Mr. Canby succeeded as The Times's chief movie critic.
        There were sober scenes from movies made by European directors championed by Mr. Canby, like Francois Truffaut's ''400 Blows'' and Rainer Werner Fassbinder's ''Marriage of Maria Braun.'' But on the same screen, a giant alligator appeared between tributes in a film clip that featured the creature waddling through a wedding reception and gobbling guests like slices of frosted wedding cake. (''Alligator,'' Mr. Canby wrote in 1981, is a ''very funny meditation on the old 'what happens when you flush the goldfish down the john?' nightmare.''
        The speakers included colleagues of Mr. Canby's at The Times, including Joseph Lelyveld, executive editor; Arthur Gelb, former managing editor; John Darnton, culture editor; and Janet Maslin, former chief film critic and now a book reviewer.
        The program also featured a classic scene from ''Annie Hall'' that showed Woody Allen fuming in line outside a movie while another film patron pontificated about his tastes.
        In his written tribute to Mr. Canby, Mr. Allen said he could picture a scene of Mr. Canby facing St. Peter at heaven's gate. There is some consternation, he writes, when the gatekeepers realize Mr. Canby is a fan of Mr. Allen's work. Mr. Canby increases the tension by confiding that he's seen many of Mr. Allen's movies at least twice.
        At that confession, Mr. Allen writes that the gatekeepers relent on the advice of W. C. Fields, who says that Mr. Canby has already been in hell if he has seen all of Mr. Allen's movies twice.
      