
        Jim Tuppeny, who coached track at Villanova for 13 years and the University of Penn for another 13 and was the director of the Penn Relays for 18 years, died on Wednesday night at his home in Carroll Park, Pa., five miles from the Villanova campus. He was 75.
        The cause was heart failure resulting from complications from stomach cancer, his daughter Betty said.
        Tuppeny was a tall, cheerful man who seldom worked without a clipboard. From 1953 to 1966, he was an assistant to the legendary coach James (Jumbo) Elliott at Villanova and helped coach Olympic gold medalists like Ron Delany, Charlie Jenkins, Larry James and Don Bragg.
        In 1966, Tuppeny became the head track and cross-country coach at Pennsylvania. His track teams there compiled a 127-29 record in dual and triangular meets and won eight team titles in the Heptagonal Games, which involved the eight Ivy League teams plus Army and Navy. His cross-country teams went 103-15 in dual and triangular meets and won two Heptagonal titles.
        In 1970, he took on a second job at Pennsylvania as director of the Penn Relays. In 1979, with that job taking up more and more of his time, he stopped coaching to devote more time to the Relays.
        The Penn Relays, which began more than 100 years ago, are the largest relay meet in the world. For three days on the last weekend in April, 15,000 athletes from hundreds of colleges, high schools and clubs compete in programs lasting up to 13 hours a day. The athletes have ranged from current Olympic heroes like Michael Johnson, Maurice Greene and Marion Jones to fifth-graders and 90-year-old master athletes.
        Tuppeny added distance races at night, a marathon, a decathlon, a heptathlon and an entire day when only women compete.
        He saw his first Penn Relays when he was 9, carrying his lunch in a paper bag and taking a trolley to Franklin Field. He saw every one since except for two years during World War II, when he was stationed in the Pacific with the Navy.
        In 1946, he competed in the Penn Relays pole vault, using, as the others did, a bamboo pole. On his first vault, the pole broke in half.
        James Patrick Tuppeny was born Sept. 20, 1925, in Philadelphia, where he was raised. He earned a bachelor's degree in economics and education from La Salle University in 1950 and a master's in administration and finance from Villanova in 1955. Before, during and after college, he worked as a teacher, welder, pipe fitter, machinist and bartender. He began coaching at Malvern Prep from 1950 to 1953.
        He served from 1979 to 1981 as president of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Track and Field Coaches Association and in 1986 as vice president of the sport's national governing body, The Athletics Congress, now known as USA Track and Field.
        He married the former Kathleen (Kass) O'Doherty of Philadelphia in 1947. She died in 1990. He is survived by five daughters, Kathy Williams of Charleston, S.C.; Michelle Ronan of Lake Zurich, Ill.; Diane Tuppeny-Hess of Ardmore, Pa.; Betty Tuppeny of Philadelphia; and Barbara Tuppeny of Havertown, Pa.; nine grandchildren and a brother, Charles Tuppeny of Honeybrook, Pa., still active as a high school track coach at age 80.
        Jim Tuppeny retired from the Penn Relays in 1987 and became executive director of athletics for the Philadelphia Convention and Visitors Bureau. In 1994, he became associate head coach at Villanova, handling administrative details for John Marshall, then the head coach, and Marshall's successor, Marcus O'Sullivan. Tuppeny was active there until a month ago.
        ''I inherited him,'' O'Sullivan said yesterday. ''Thank goodness, I did. If not for him, I wouldn't have gotten through my first two years as coach. The coaching part wasn't tough, but the paperwork was. Just putting on a meet on was tough. He told me the job was going to be a long, long race, so pace yourself.''
        ''In coaching runners,'' O'Sullivan said of Tuppeny, ''he had a good intuitive skill in knowing where the edge was, knowing when you're pushing a kid too far. In the last two years, he was starting to coach totally by feel, like someone making a cake without a recipe. That helped him touch people, and he touched thousands.''
      