
        Colin Cowdrey, one of the greatest batsmen in the history of cricket and an important administrator of the sport, died Tuesday at his home in Angmering, West Sussex, England.
        Cowdrey, who was formally Baron Cowdrey of Tonbridge, died of a heart attack, The Times of London said. He was 67.
        From 1954 to 1975, Cowdrey played in 114 test, or international, matches for England. He scored 7,624 runs, a test-cricket record at the time and a total surpassed by only three others since.
        As a fielder, he made 120 test catches, until then the most ever for an England player. He was the England captain for 23 test matches.
        For most of the year, the better cricket players compete for counties. Cowdrey played for Kent, and in his career there scored 42,719 runs, one of 14 batsmen who have reached 40,000.
        When he was 22, Cowdrey scored 102 runs in one innings in a test against Australia, and his teammate, Tom Graveney, called the performance ''unbridled genius unsurpassed for both merit and technique.''
        In its obituary, The Daily Telegraph said, ''Cowdrey seemed to be a batsman without flaw, impeccable in defense and classically elegant in attack.''
        He might have been elegant, but he was not without flaw. In his autobiography, he said that as a boy he was shy, nervous, conservative and diffident. That showed up in his defensive batting.
        As The Times of London said: ''He much preferred to caress the ball than to hit it. His batting, in fact, was a true reflection of an innately unassuming personality. Cowdrey became unaccountably obsessed with defense. His introspective nature made him overreceptive to sterile theory, and lack of self-confidence prevented him from breaking out of his chains.''
        After watching a 1957 match, the English author Alan Ross wrote, ''There were moments when one wanted to send him out a double scotch and instruct him to take the cotton wool off his bat and really hit it.''
        In 1987, Cowdrey served as president of the Marylebone Cricket Club, the sport's ruling body in England. His year was marked by quadruple-bypass surgery and the resolution of an internal power struggle that had hit the club.
        From 1989 to 1993, as the chairman of the International Cricket Council, he implemented a code of conduct for the sport, provided for neutral match officials and helped return South Africa to test competition.
        He was knighted in 1992, and in 1997 he became the first player to be named a life peer for his services to the game.
        Michael Colin Cowdrey was born in Putamala, India, on Dec. 24, 1932, the son of a tea planter in southern India. His father designed the son's name so that the initials would be the same as those of the Marylebone Cricket Club.
        When the son was 5, he was sent to England to live with his maternal grandmother. He did not see his parents again until after World War II.
        He became a cricket prodigy, and at 13 he was the youngest ever to play at Lord's Cricket Ground, the Yankee Stadium of the sport. He was educated at Oxford University.
        In 1956, he married Penelope Chiesman. After their divorce in 1985, he married Lady Anne Fitzalan-Howard, Lady Herries of Terregles, a racehorse trainer and a daughter of the 16th Duke of Norfolk.
        Cowdrey is survived by his second wife and by four children from his first marriage: three sons, Christopher, Graham and Jeremy, and a daughter, Carolyn. His sons Christopher and Graham also played for Kent, and Christopher was briefly England's captain.
        The Independent said in its obituary: ''Born into a world of unquestioning loyalty to the British Empire, he grew to manhood in an age which saw its power decline and its values diminished and demeaned. He fitted into the changing world with reluctance and would go out of his way to court friends among whom the customs of England's past lives on. But he was not a snob and would not have known what it took to be one.''
      