
        Rabbi Irving Koslowe, the Jewish chaplain at Sing Sing for 49 years who in 1953 counseled and administered last rites to the convicted spies Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital after a monthlong illness. He was 80 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
        The chaplaincy at Ossining state prison, known as Sing Sing, was a part-time job for the rabbi, but it remained a central focus of his life from the time he was appointed by Gov. Thomas E. Dewey in 1950 until he retired last year. Over those years, Rabbi Koslowe visited the prison at least once a week, bringing with him a variety of visitors as well as Jewish newspapers, books, foods and items for holiday rituals.
        ''People ask me what I'm doing, bringing matzo ball soup to a bunch of killers,'' Rabbi Koslowe once told an interviewer. ''But maybe we can make some change. Maybe we can bring some good in their life. Some of the guards would say I'm crazy, but I do what I can do.''
        In a ceremony upon Rabbi Koslowe's retirement from the state prison system last year, the Jewish chapel at Sing Sing was renamed in his honor.
        In addition to his prison duties, Rabbi Koslowe served as the rabbi of the Westchester Jewish Center, in Mamaroneck, from 1943 until 1987. During those years, it grew from a synagogue with 30 families to a center with more than 500 families.
        Over the years, Rabbi Koslowe also taught psychology, criminal justice and pastoral counseling at Westchester Community College, Mercy College and Pace University.
        From 1950 until 1963, when the death penalty was abolished, Rabbi Koslowe witnessed 17 executions at Sing Sing. He spoke somberly about how he would spend the final hours with the inmates, leading them in their final confession and the profession of faith. In each case, he would tell the prisoner, ''I'll be right by you.'' He then joined them in the execution chamber, standing opposite them as they were strapped into the electric chair and staying with them until the end.
        The Rosenbergs, who were charged with passing atomic secrets to the Soviets, were executed on June 19, 1953, for espionage. In a news program about the cold war shown last year on CNN, Rabbi Koslowe recalled that Attorney General Herbert Brownell called him from Washington with a last-minute plea that the Rosenbergs name co-conspirators. Mr. Brownell told the rabbi that if the Rosenbergs gave him a name, a stay of execution would be considered, Rabbi Koslowe said.
        The Rosenbergs refused. Julius was put to death. Rabbi Koslowe said he then returned for Ethel. ''I came back and told her her husband was dead. Did she have anything to say to me, a name, to stay the execution? She said, 'No, I have no names to give, I'm innocent,' and she was far more stolid than he. She came right behind me, sat down and was executed.''
        Rabbi Koslowe never took a position on their guilt or innocence or on the appropriateness of the sentence. After the execution, he was involved in finding a foster home for the Rosenbergs' sons, Robert and Michael.
        Rabbi Koslowe had a level of access at Sing Sing enjoyed by few others. ''He had the run of the place,'' said his son Neil. ''He never bothered to abide by the rules. He was there longer than any warden, any guard or any prisoners.''
        He became a consultant for the State Department of Correctional Services and was often called in to help during various prison disturbances, including the riot at Attica in 1971. He was a past president of the American Correctional Chaplains Association and editor of its journal.
        Rabbi Koslowe graduated from Yeshiva University and its affiliated rabbinical school, the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary. He had a master's in education from New York University and a doctorate in sociology from Yeshiva University.
        In addition to his son Neil, who lives in Silver Spring, Md., Rabbi Koslowe is survived by his wife, Marly; two other sons, Kenneth, of Petach Tikvah, Israel, and Mark, of East Brunswick, N.J.; a daughter, Shari Schechter of Miami Beach, Fla.; 19 grandchildren; and 6 great-grandchildren.
      