
        Dr. Victor Clarence Vaughan III, a physician, educator and for many years the co-editor of a textbook for generations of fledgling doctors, died on Nov. 30 at Stanford University Hospital. He was 81 and lived in Palo Alto and Carmel Valley, Calif.
        The cause was complications after a heart attack, said his wife, Dr. Iris F. Litt, professor of pediatrics at the Stanford University Medical School.
        Dr. Vaughan was co-editor of what is now known as the ''Nelson Textbook of Pediatrics'' from 1964 to 1992, starting with its author, Dr. Waldo E. Nelson. He continued after Dr. Nelson retired and entrusted it to Dr. Richard E. Behrman, his son-in-law.
        A classic among textbooks, it has been updated as needed and went into its 15th edition at W. B. Saunders last year with Dr. Behrman continuing as the principal editor. Dr. Nelson died in 1997 at age 98.
        Most recently, Dr. Vaughan was the co-editor of ''Pediatrics: A Problem Based Review.'' He also wrote extensively about hemolytic disease of the newborn (or Rh disease), child and infant development and allergic illnesses.
        For over 15 years he advised the American Academy of Pediatrics on its programs to set educational standards and guidelines for self-evaluation. He was a past president of the American Board of Pediatrics and a founder of the American Board of Allergy and Immunology.
        Victor Clarence Vaughan was born in Toledo, Ohio. He represented the third generation of a prominent medical family. His grandfather was dean of the University of Michigan Medical School from 1891 to 1921 and was a pioneer of university-based medical research.
        Dr. Vaughan graduated from Harvard in 1940 and from its medical school three years later. He then trained in pediatrics at Children's Hospital in Boston and began his career as an educator at Yale School of Medicine.
        He moved to Temple's medical school in 1952 and then was a professor and chairman of pediatrics at the Medical College of Georgia from 1957 to 1964. He then returned to Temple to fill a similar position.
        At Stanford, he continued to make his hospital rounds and teach new doctors as a clinical professor until about two years ago.
        In addition to Dr. Litt, whom he married in 1987, Dr. Vaughan is survived by a son and two daughters from an earlier marriage, Jonathan, of Clinton, N.Y., Sarah V. Sayre of Westminster, Md., and Joanna Vaughan of Philadelphia; three brothers, Dr. Warren Vaughan of Portola Valley, Calif., Dr. John Vaughan of San Diego, and Dr. David Vaughan of Richmond, Va.; and four grandchildren. Also surviving are his former wife, Deborah Cloud Vaughan of Philadelphia, and two stepsons, William Litt of Fremont, Calif., and Robert Litt of Portland, Ore.
      