
        Rayner S. Unwin, a second-generation publisher who at a very early age recognized the value of an obscure manuscript called ''The Hobbit,'' died on Nov. 23 in a hospice in Berkhamsted, England. He was 74.
        The cause was cancer, said his son, Merlin Unwin, who is also a publisher.
        Rayner Unwin took charge of the publishing house George Allen & Unwin in 1968 after the death of his father, Sir Stanley. The senior Unwin  paid his son a shilling when he was 10 to write a reader's report on a manuscript by J. R. R. Tolkien called ''The Hobbit.'' The title, published in 1937,  became a classic along with the three-volume sequel, ''The Lord of the Rings,'' published by George Allen & Unwin in 1954 and '55.
        ''My father still has a copy of that reader's report,'' said Merlin Unwin, who noted that it included observations in schoolboy handwriting like: ''This is an excellent book. This will appeal to all children between the ages of 7 and 9.''
        ''That was the spirit of the company in many ways,'' said his son. ''They liked to take risks on books that seemed to have real quality. Some of them worked and some of them didn't.''
        Mr. Unwin was also an author who wrote a biography in 1954 of the poet John Clare and an account of the Arctic voyages of Willem Barents, the 16th-century Dutch explorer, called ''A Winter Away From Home'' (1995).
        In 1999 Mr. Unwin published privately a memoir of his company. It merged in 1985 with another house to form Unwin Hyman. In 1990 that company was acquired against Mr. Unwin's wishes by HarperCollins, owned by Rupert Murdoch. Mr. Unwin described the takeover as ''messy, depressing and at times outrageous for those at the receiving end.'' He retired with the takeover, but continued to write, said his son.
        Mr. Unwin is also survived by his wife, Carol Curwen; three daughters, Camilla Corbin of Berkhamsted, Tamara Stott of Macon, France,  and Sharon Bartram of Bucknell, England; and 13 grandchildren.
      