
        H. C. Artmann, an author, poet and leader among Austria's avant-garde, died on Monday at his home in the Josefstadt quarter of Vienna. He was 79.
        Rebellious not only in a literary sense, he landed in a penal battalion in World War II and then in an American prisoner-of-war camp, where he began to write poetry. He survived to take his place in the forefront of writers in German who reclaimed the language from the miasma of Nazi jargon.
        He was admired for his keen sense of words and the seemingly endless varieties of his style and mood. He had a bent for grotesque tales but was gifted with an unmatched knack for rendering Vienna's unmistakable patois on the printed page.
        Hans Carl Artmann grew up as the untutored only child of a shoemaker in working-class Vienna. His formal education ended with eight years of compulsory schooling, after which he turned into a self-taught bohemian who disdained the settled life most others yearned for in postwar Europe. He became famous -- perhaps despite himself -- in 1958 with the publication of a dazzling volume of dialect poems, ''With Black Ink.'' Along with other dialect literature, which made him enormously popular, he wrote baroque-style prose and poetry.
        Fluent in several languages, he translated a book of Irish prayers and many works from English, French, Italian, Yiddish, Russian and, particularly, Spanish. All bore witness to his highly developed linguistic sensibility.
        Mr. Artmann experimented with linguistic phenomena, building on the phonetic patterns he found in dialect. His ironic poems mimicked various Viennese characters but teemed with vampires, ogres and demons of fantasy.
        After his dialect writings made him a folk hero, he rebelled yet again, this time to escape the comfort of established popularity. He decided to write only in standard German, only in the lower case, and at times without punctuation.
        His poetry reverted to structure, with verse, rhyme and meter back in place, as in his collected ballads and nature poems. He surprised the literary world yet again in 1978 when he published his first novel, ''nachrichten aus nord und sud'' (''News From North and South''), in which he reflected on the contemporary scene, blended with his memories of yore.
      