
        Rupert C. Barneby, a self-taught botanist who described and named 1,160 plant species new to science, died Tuesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for Aged in the Bronx. He was 89.
        Mr. Barneby was curator emeritus of the New York Botanical Garden's Institute of Systematic Botany, and was considered one of the world's top experts on beans. He had three genera (groups of species sharing common characteristics, like roses or oaks) of plants -- Barnebya, Barnebyella, and Barnebydendron -- and 25 species named after him.
        ''I doubt that anyone has found more bona fide species of flowering plants in the continental United States since the halcyon days of the last century, when it seemed that almost everything was new,'' William Cronquist, senior scientist at the garden, which is in the Bronx, wrote in 1981.
        Mr. Barneby's specialty, taxonomy, the science of classifying organisms into related groups, had seemed to be receding in importance as botanic research increasingly concentrated on molecular biology. But Brian Boom, vice president for botanic science at the garden, said the exact definitions that taxonomy provides were rapidly becoming the basis for the most sophisticated genetic research.
        For example, to study which genes prompt resistance to drought, researchers might begin by choosing from the thousands of desert plants Mr. Barneby had collected and stored in vast rooms of drawers.
        ''The molecular biologists are asking us, 'What are the most interesting questions to pursue?' '' Dr. Boom said.
        Mr. Barneby's colorful, quirky personality also made an enduring mark. He lived for years over a stable in the botanic garden, was friends with literary luminaries like W. H. Auden and Aldous Huxley and created magnificent rock gardens with more than 1,000 plant species. He and his partner for 48 years, Harry Dwight Dillon Ripley, who died in 1973, were friends and early patrons of Jackson Pollock and others in the New York School of Abstract Expressionist painters.
        His dry wit was famous. In an interview in the ''About New York'' column in The New York Times in 1992 he said of having no formal education in botany: ''I'm an autodidact, but that doesn't mean I don't know.'' Of beans, he said: ''They choose you. I don't think I chose them.''
        Many of his discoveries were desert plants growing in very circumscribed areas. He found the sentry milk-vetch in a stand of only 100 plants on the south rim of the Grand Canyon and the gumbo milk-vetch in the hoof prints left by passing cattle on gumbo flats near Kanab, Utah.
        James Grimes, senior botanist at the Royal Botanic Gardens in Melbourne, Australia, said of Mr. Barneby's output of more than 6,500 pages of papers, monographs and journals, ''He has perhaps published more pages of monographic and floristic treatments than any other botanist of the 20th century.''
        Peter Raven, director of the Missouri Botanical Garden, said, ''Rupert Barneby was a great student of plants in the style of George Bentham and the other encyclopedic workers of the 19th century, who would tirelessly analyze all we knew about enormous groups of plants and reduce that knowledge to lucid prose.''
        Rupert Charles Barneby was born on Oct. 6, 1911, at Trewyn, a 17th-century country house at the edge of the Brecon Beacons and almost directly on the border between England and Wales. As a child, he marveled at insects, plants and fossils, and two aunts encouraged his interests by giving him books on them. He was a member of a young naturalists' club.
        He went to Harrow, where at 14 he met Mr. Ripley, who was two years older and knew the Latin names for plants, a facility that greatly impressed Mr. Barneby. Mr. Barneby was always delighted to tell of how scandalized officials of the exclusive boarding school were by the boys' relationship -- not because such a schoolboy romance was unusual, but because Mr. Ripley was an American.
        Mr. Barneby went to Cambridge and Mr. Ripley to Oxford. While still at university, the two went on joint plant-hunting trips to Spain and northern Africa. They brought back specimens to plant at Mr. Ripley's estate in Sussex. Their rock garden there included 1,138 species, many of which were so rare they were eventually given to the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew.
        Mr. Barneby's father refused to let him study botany, because he thought it was unsuitable for a young man to devote himself to flowers. His father found only three careers acceptable: the army, the navy or the church. ''I was always unsuited for the army or navy and I hated the church,'' Mr. Barneby said. ''That's really why I came to America.''
        Mr. Barneby, who had been disinherited, and Mr. Ripley, whose personal fortune always paid the bills, headed straight to Hollywood, where they were quickly disillusioned by  seeing Clark Gable without pads on his shoulders and torso. ''He was a little shrimp of a man,'' Mr. Barneby lamented.
        The two continued plant-hunting in the American West. The first plant Mr. Barneby named was a parsley-like umbellifer found on Yucca Flat in Nevada, said Douglas Crase, who is researching a book on Mr. Ripley. Mr. Barneby labeled it Cymopterus ripleyi. The two went on to build magnificent rock gardens at homes in the New York region, where they moved in 1943.
        Mr. Barneby, eager to turn over a new leaf, showed up in the early 1950's at the botanical garden in the Bronx. He brought hundreds of plant specimens, which fascinated resident scientists. In essence, he began hanging around and doing things, including serving tea at 4 P.M. daily.
        In 1989, he was named curator of systematic botany, the first and last paying job he ever had. He worked every day until this July, when he could no longer open his seemingly endless drawers of legumes.
        But he was always far more than a bean counter anyway, as suggested by his wistful recollection at once spotting Greta Garbo walking in the rain in Manhattan. In his own way, he had much in common with the famous loner, suggested his longtime friend, Budd Myers, a writer and editor.
        ''He really didn't like many people, simply because he didn't find them very interesting,'' he said. He had no survivors, said Mary Tobin, a spokeswoman for the garden.
        Mr. Barneby was unimpressed by the many honors he received, including the Millennium Botany Award, presented to him by the International Botanical Congress in 1999.
        ''I'm conscious of the prestige of the medallion,'' he said, ''but hideously aware that it's an award for survival rather than for merit. It's part of the dismal cult of personality that started in Hollywood and now has infected the entire planet.''
        Correction:  December 12, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about Rupert C. Barneby, a botanist at the New York Botanical Garden, misstated the given name of a senior scientist who wrote in 1981 about Mr. Barneby's work in identifying species. The scientist was Arthur Cronquist, not William.
      