
        Less than a year after becoming the spiritual leader of Long Island's 1.4 million Roman Catholics, Bishop James Thomas McHugh, an anti-abortion leader, died yesterday. He was 68.
        Bishop McHugh, the head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre, died of liver and gallbladder cancer, said Joanne C. Novarro, a spokeswoman for the diocese.
        His illness was diagnosed a few months after he became the designated successor to Bishop John R. McGann in February 1999. But when he was installed in January, his doctors said the cancer was in remission.
        Born in Orange, N.J., on Jan. 3, 1932, Bishop McHugh spent most of his school and working life in New Jersey, attending the Immaculate Conception Seminary in Darlington. He was ordained in 1957 and became a priest with the Archdiocese of Newark. Before moving to the Long Island diocese, he had been the bishop of Camden for 10 years.
        He was an expert on issues involving human life, including abortion, the death penalty and euthanasia. In 1965, he became the director of the family life bureau of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops.
        In 1971, Father McHugh was appointed papal chamberlain by Pope Paul VI, and Pope John Paul II made him a prelate of honor in 1986.
        In 1972, Father McHugh became the National Conference of Catholic Bishops' first director of pro-life activities, said Msgr. Francis Maniscalco, a spokesman for the conference.
        Bishops in the United States looked to Bishop McHugh and a handful of other prelates to articulate the church's position on human life issues, Monsignor Maniscalco said.
        Bishop McHugh also specialized in demography and population matters, traveling to three United Nations conferences on population and three international conferences on women with the Vatican's delegation.
        Part of his job was to help rebut what the Roman Catholic Church sees as exaggerated projections of world population growth, Monsignor Maniscalco said, and to encourage policies of economic development rather than population control.
        ''He was a tenacious defender of innocent human life,'' said John Carr, the director of social development and world peace for the bishops conference. ''Part of it was loyalty to the church's teachings, and part of it was his conviction that this was the moral measure of our society.''
        After leaving the conference, Monsignor McHugh went to graduate school in Rome, where he earned a graduate degree in moral theology in 1981.
        In 1987, he was appointed auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Newark, and was ordained a bishop in 1988. The following year, he became the bishop of Camden, where he focused on encouraging Catholic education and on drawing men to the priesthood, said Monsignor Maniscalco.
        Although some of his time in the Diocese of Rockville Centre, which covers Nassau and Suffolk Counties, was consumed by his battle against cancer, he did complete negotiations with the teachers of the diocese's two Catholic high schools, ensuring that the teachers' contracts contained a clause saying that the teacher supported the Catholic faith and teachings, Mrs. Novarro said.
        Bishop McHugh is survived by his mother, Caroline Scavone McHugh, and a sister, Sharon Foster.
        Mrs. Novarro said that the Vatican had not yet chosen a successor for Bishop McHugh, and that a group of priests in the diocese would choose an administrator in the interim.
        Bishop McHugh was with Cardinal John O'Connor, the archbishop of New York, in the last few hours before the cardinal's death in May. And yesterday, Archbishop Edward M. Egan of New York said he and Bishop McHugh had been friends since the 1960's.
        ''During these months of illness, he continued to preach the sanctity of life,'' Archbishop Egan said. ''Only now he added his own example of the beauty of life, even when it is attended by sickness and suffering.''
      