
        Marvin Leath, a conservative Democrat with an interest in military affairs who served six terms as a congressman from Central Texas, died on Friday at a hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 69 and lived in McLean, Va.
        He had suffered a heart attack at his home, said his son, Thomas.
        Mr. Leath, a former small-town banker, was first elected to Congress in 1978 and retired in 1991. He served on the House Budget Committee and led its Subcommittee on Foreign Affairs and Defense. He was also on the House Armed Services Committee.
        One of the more conservative Democrats in the House, he was a supporter of arms control and of a tightened rein on Pentagon procurement practices.
        His interests included Fort Hood near Killeen, Tex., one of the Army's biggest installations and a major employer in his district.
        Mr. Leath's son, Thomas, said his father had played an important role in obtaining $1 billion in appropriations for Fort Hood, and Representative Chet Edwards, a Democrat who succeeded Mr. Leath, said, ''Marvin Leath's public service made a lasting impact on Fort Hood.''
        Mr. Leath was a founder of the Boll Weevils, a group of Southern Democrats who were closely allied with House Republicans on budget and fiscal issues. He was gregarious and well-liked in the House, an accomplished country music singer with a reputation for ''really listening'' to his colleagues.
        After retiring from Congress, he started a government relations consulting firm based in Washington, Marvin Leath Associates, and had several large military-related companies as clients.
        Marvin Leath was born in Rusk County in East Texas, worked in oil fields as a teenager and received a bachelor's degree in 1954 from the University of Texas, where he played football.
        He was in the Army from 1954 to 1956, rising to first lieutenant, and then was a high school football coach in Rusk County.
        He went on to be the owner and president of four banks in Central Texas. He spent $578,000 in his first  race for a House seat, which was open. He ran second in a five-man primary and then won a runoff.
        His marriage in 1954 to Alta Ruth Neill ended in divorce after 37 years, and he was separated from his second wife, Penny.
        Survivors include his son, Thomas, of Dallas.
      