
        Eldon Elder, a scenic designer and theatrical consultant who designed the New York Shakespeare Festival's Delacorte Theater in Central Park, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, said John P. Engel, a friend.
        During his 50 years in the theater, Mr. Elder was responsible for the designs for several hundred plays on and off Broadway, in regional theater and in London and Berlin. He also worked with opera companies and often created lighting and costumes as well as sets.
        He was born in Atchison, Kan., and attended Emporia State College and the University of Denver before studying scenic design at the Yale University School of Drama.
        In New York he began working for the Theater Guild and in 1951 created the scenery for ''Legend of Lovers'' (with Richard Burton and Dorothy McGuire) and then went on to do ''Time Out for Ginger,'' ''The Girl in Pink Tights,'' ''Young and Beautiful,'' ''Fallen Angels,'' ''Shinbone Alley,'' ''The Fun Couple'' and many other plays.
        Starting in 1958, he was the first resident designer for Joseph Papp at the New York Shakespeare Festival. That position led to his designing the company's new permanent theater in Central Park.
        In her biography ''Joe Papp: An American Life,'' Helen Epstein quotes Mr. Elder: ''I had the unusual experience of beginning my career on Broadway, and in some ways that was not a good thing. Working with Joe then, you had a sense that you were making a contribution to society.''
        At the New York Shakespeare Festival and later the American Shakespeare Festival Theater in Stratford, Conn., he immersed himself in Shakespeare.
        For several years he was the art director for the St. Louis Municipal Opera. He was also a designer and/ or a consultant for the Ypsilanti Greek Theater in Ypsilanti, Mich.; the Harlem Cultural Arts Center; the Helen Hayes Performing Arts Center in Nyack, N.Y.; the 42nd Street Redevelopment Project; the Double Image Theater in Manhattan; and the Zachary Scott Theater Center in Austin, Tex.
        Mr. Elder was the author of ''Will It Make a Theater,'' a guide to creating a nontraditional performing space. For many years he taught stage design at Brooklyn College.
        No immediate family members survive.
        Through the International Theater Institute and other organizations, Mr. Elder was an unofficial ambassador of stage design.
        ''He forged relationships with designers in Eastern Europe and other countries,'' said Ming Cho Lee, who followed him as the designer for the New York Shakespeare Festival. ''He was a liaison, the glue that held our community together.''
      