
        Amyas Ames, an investment banker who devoted half his life to the support of the arts, becoming board chairman of both the New York Philharmonic and Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died on Monday at  a retirement community in Lexington, Mass. He was 93.
        During his long business career Mr. Ames was managing partner at Kidder, Peabody & Company and chairman of its executive committee. He also served as president of the Investment Bankers Association.
        But as an amateur pianist and longtime lover of the arts, Mr. Ames realized early on that he did not want to follow the 'straight-business route,' as he explained in an article in The New York Times on the occasion of his appointment to the Lincoln Center post in 1970. ''I wanted to phase out early,'' he said, and help ''tie the performing arts into political developments, into the fight to improve the quality of life, the quality of the environment in our cities.''
        He was elected to the board of the New York Philharmonic in 1955, became its president in 1963 and served as chairman from 1970 until 1983. In 1970 he also accepted the appointment as chairman of Lincoln Center, following the retirement of John D. Rockefeller III, and held the position for 10 years.
        At the time he accepted the Lincoln Center post, the organization was in its seventh year and facing financial crisis. Mr. Ames believed that the decrease in private and government funding for the arts was a reflection of more pressing societal concerns about urban, racial and educational problems. He was a self-described optimist about the ability of the arts to help these problems. ''We're fighting the pollution of the inner city, and along with it we should be fighting the pollution of the inner mind,'' he said in the same interview.
        During his tenure at Lincoln Center he headed two major endowment drives that raised over $28 million. He instigated the New York Philharmonic's free ''Concerts in the Parks'' series, which began in 1965 and still thrives, and oversaw the creation of the ''Live From Lincoln Center'' television broadcasts, the first of which in 1976 presented a New York Philharmonic concert with the pianist Van Cliburn.
        Most notably, he spearheaded the renovation of the Philharmonic's concert hall at Lincoln Center, which had opened as Philharmonic Hall in 1962. To correct the hall's notoriously poor acoustics, some expensive adjustments were tried during the 1960's. But it was not until Mr. Ames solicited the support of Avery Fisher and the hall was totally renovated and reopened in 1976 as Avery Fisher Hall that critics pronounced themselves satisfied with the results.
        Mr. Ames was born in Sharon, Mass., on June 15, 1906. His father was a biologist at Harvard University and his mother was an artist and musician. His grandfather, Oliver Ames, had been governor of Massachusetts. Mr. Ames's unusual first name, Amyas, was an old English spelling of the family name.
        He attended Harvard, playing baseball and also performing on clarinet in the Harvard Band. After graduating in 1928, he entered Harvard Business School. The next year the stock market crashed. Undeterred, his master's degree in tow, Mr. Ames joined a Boston financial firm and three years later moved to New York to begin his career at Kidder, Peabody.
        During World War II he served as administrative officer of the War Shipping Administration in Washington, a civilian government agency that coordinated the operation of the 4,000 allied ships that were transporting food and war materials.
        For 60 years he was married to Evelyn I. Perkins, a published poet and author, who died in 1990. In 1995 Mr. Ames married Lucia Millham of Locust Valley, N.Y., who had worked in hospital administration, and who survives him.
        Mr. Ames was an avid environmentalist and nature photographer. At his summer home in Martha's Vineyard he took photographs of flowers and wildlife, many of which were published with his accompanying essays in The Vineyard Journal. In 1980 a collection of his photographs and essays entitled ''The Private Lives of Our Natural Neighbors'' was published as a book by George Braziller of New York.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Ames is survived by four children from his first marriage: two sons, Edward and and Oakes, both of New York City; two daughters, Olivia Hoblitzelle of Cambridge, Mass., and Joan Ames of Eugene, Ore., as well as 11 grandchildren and 6 great-grandchildren.
        In his final years at the Brookhaven in Lexington retirement community, Mr. Ames designed and oversaw the creation of a nature trail through the wooded grounds there  that was accessible to elderly people with limited mobility.
      