
        Willard Nixon, a right-handed pitcher for the Boston Red Sox in the 1950's who dominated the powerful Yankees in an otherwise unremarkable career, died Sunday at a hospital in Rome, Ga. He was 72.
        He had Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        Pitching for the Red Sox from 1950 to 1958, Nixon had a career record of 69-72 and never won more than 12 games in a season. But in 1954, he went 4-0 against a Yankee team that won 103 games. In 1955, he defeated the pennant-winning Yankees four more times. In 1956, he pitched 27 1/3 consecutive innings without yielding an earned run against another first-place Yankee team.
        Nixon was a fine hitter for a pitcher, posting a .242 career batting average. In an August 1954 game at Fenway Park, he hit a 400-foot double that drove in the winning run in a 4-3 victory over the Yankees that broke their 10-game winning streak.
        ''I have no earthly way of explaining the mastery I had over them,'' Nixon once said. ''I just knew that I had to be at my best against them.''
        Nixon, a native of Taylorsville, Ga., pitched for Auburn before signing with the Red Sox organization. After his playing days, he scouted for the Red Sox and was chief of police in Floyd County, Ga., and transportation director for its school system.
        Nixon, who lived in Silver Creek, Ga., is survived by his wife, Nancy; a son, Bill; two daughters, Dawn Brock and Nan Gillespie; seven grandchildren; his mother, Eva Lou Brownlow; and a sister, Virginia Boydstone.
        Dominance over the Yankees was not Nixon's only talent; he was also a master autograph forger.
        ''Willard could sign anybody on the ballclub,'' Red Sox pitcher Mel Parnell recalled.
        Anyone with a baseball signed by Ted Williams should take pause.
        ''They'd bring boxes of balls and stuff like that over to Ted, and he'd say, 'Give it to Willard,' '' Don Fitzpatrick, the Red Sox clubhouse man in the 1950's, remembered. ''He signed hundreds of balls for Williams. That's why we thought he'd never be traded or released.''
      