
        Dr. Edward H. Ahrens Jr., who showed that saturated and unsaturated fats in the diet had opposite effects on blood cholesterol levels, died Dec. 9 at the Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 85 and lived in Hightstown, N.J.
        For several decades, Dr. Ahrens, known as Pete, conducted research at the center of the debate about how, and whether, dietary change could help people avoid atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a disease in which cholesterol is deposited in the walls of arteries, impeding blood flow and leading to strokes and heart attacks. Dr. Ahrens designed studies that are still considered models of clinical research.
        ''In the 1950's, 60's and into the 70's, he was regarded as a leader in the field of lipid nutrition and the relationship of lipids to heart disease,'' said Dr. Richard Havel, professor emeritus at the School of Medicine at the University of California at San Francisco. ''His work opened up a field of research that continues, and people who have followed his lead have made further advances,'' Dr. Havel said.
        In 1952, while at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research (now Rockefeller University), Dr. Ahrens began studying the effects of dietary fat on blood cholesterol.
        ''We had an epidemic of heart disease after World War II,'' said Dr. Jules Hirsch, who worked under Dr. Ahrens for 14 years at Rockefeller. ''The rates were growing higher and higher and people became suddenly aware of that, and that diet was a factor.''
        Scientists had learned that high levels of cholesterol helped bring on atherosclerosis, and that animal fats helped raise cholesterol levels. What  the scientists did not understand was why vegetable fats seemed to lower cholesterol levels. Dr. Ahrens decided to feed patients carefully controlled diets to see how different fats affected cholesterol. But, he recalled in an interview in 1984: ''We had an awful time at first. It was boring as the devil for the patients, who had to eat the same diet every day for weeks. It was hard on the dietitians, and we didn't have precise enough control of the dietary mix.''
        At the suggestion of a pediatrician at Rockefeller who advised him to ''feed them like babies,'' he put his patients on a diet of formula, becoming one of the first researchers to use this now-common technique.
        Dr. Ahrens discovered that the effect of fat was related to its saturation, or the ability of a fat molecule to combine chemically with hydrogen atoms. A saturated fat, like butter or suet, cannot combine with any more atoms than it already has, while an unsaturated fat like olive oil can. With unsaturated fats, the body's complex mechanism for synthesizing, excreting and allocating cholesterol among the organs is tipped to lowering blood cholesterol; saturated fats have the opposite effect.
        ''It was the first practical way of beginning to lower cholesterol, because people are able to change dietary fat,'' Dr. Hirsch said.
        While opinions have varied over the years, most scientists now believe that the intake of saturated fat is a more important factor than dietary cholesterol in heart disease, Dr. Havel said. That is because, as Dr. Ahrens showed in his work, when most people eat high-cholesterol foods like eggs, the body compensates somewhat by reducing its own production of cholesterol.
        Dr. Ahrens is also credited with pioneering the use of gas-liquid chromatography in lipid research, a technique that allows scientists to analyze the fatty acids in fats and see how they change in response to diet.  And, in what Dr. Hirsch calls ''an example of his ingenuity,'' Dr. Ahrens figured out a relatively civilized way to emulsify feces, by having them collected in paint cans and mixed by paint-mixing machines like those in hardware stores.
        During the 1960's, Dr. Ahrens used that method to conduct studies that measured the liver's production of cholesterol by comparing the difference between dietary intake and daily excretion. He developed a technique called the sterol balance method that accurately measured that production, and demonstrated the wide variations in cholesterol metabolism among people. This strengthened his opposition to sweeping diet prescriptions.
        In 1977, for instance, he criticized a government effort to reduce consumption of cholesterol drastically, saying it treated people as though they were ''a homogeneous group of Sprague-Dawley rats.'' (Because of their uniformity, such rats are ideal for research.)
        Described by colleagues as highly opinionated about scientific practice, Dr. Ahrens was also passionate in arguing for more emphasis on studies that could actually help improve the health of their human subject,  publishing ''The Crisis in Clinical Research'' in 1992.
        ''Clinical researchers are being starved out by the more fashionable people who deal in molecular biology,'' he said in an interview in 1997. ''If they don't drastically change the way clinical research is peer-reviewed, patient-oriented research is going down the tubes.''
        Edward Hamblin Ahrens Jr. was born on May 21, 1915, in Chicago to a publisher of trade magazines for hotels and restaurants, and the former Pauline Forsyth. He went to Harvard, earning a bachelor's degree in history in 1937 and a medical degree in 1941.
        Dr. Ahrens' original intent was to become a pediatrician, his wife, Bonnie, said. But his association with doctors who worked at Rockefeller stoked his interest in research.
        He served in World War II in the Army Air Forces Medical Corps, researching what supplies pilots needed to survive if they were shot down in the Pacific, then joined Rockefeller in 1946.
        Dr. Ahrens was appointed professor in 1960 and Frederick Henry Leonhardt professor in 1982. He became professor emeritus in 1985.
        In 1958, he founded ''The Journal of Lipid Research'' and was its editor from 1963 to 1969. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1973.
        In addition to his wife of 60 years, the former Bonnie Fobes, Dr. Ahrens is survived by two daughters, Sandra Sundstrom, of Brooklyn, and Burgess Russell, of Essex, Conn.; a son, Peter F., of Ketchum, Idaho; and four grandchildren.
        Apart from lipids, Dr. Ahrens was fascinated by trees and conducted research on plant biology after he became a professor emeritus. He was on the board of the New York Botanical Garden from 1981 to 1993. And he and his wife established the Mountain Top Arboretum in 1977, in Tannersville, N.Y., next to their summer home, where they planted trees and plants from around the world to see how they withstood the high elevation and winters of the Catskills.
        Now run by a nonprofit group, the 10-acre arboretum is open for visits from May to October.
      