
        Carl T. Curtis, a former Republican House member and senator from Nebraska who spent 40 years in Congress preaching a strict fiscal and social conservatism and was a staunch defender of Richard M. Nixon during the Watergate scandal, died on Monday in Lincoln, Neb. He was 94.
        Throughout his tenure, Mr. Curtis was a spirited critic of the New Deal and any program that smacked of social welfare. He opposed the school lunch program, for example, saying his own character had been bettered for having had to carry his own lunch to school as a youth.
        ''One of the things, for example, that turned me against school lunches was that it didn't hurt me to walk to school carrying a lunch pail,'' he told an interviewer in 1994.
        At the end of his career, he was best known as one of Nixon's most ardent defenders in the Senate during Congressional investigations of Watergate.
        In July 1973, he led a delegation of 10 conservative Republican senators to the White House in a very public show of support for Nixon at a time when the Watergate drama was becoming especially intense.
        He said through his press secretary at the time that he ''felt a need to talk to the president and let him know that everyone wasn't deserting him because of Watergate.'' But the meeting also highlighted Nixon's tenuous political position by virtue of the many Republican senators who did not attend the session.
        Nixon resigned 13 months later, but Mr. Curtis continued for years to inveigh against the people who had opposed the president. On the first anniversary of the resignation, Mr. Curtis said that he believed that President Nixon's downfall had been helped by an undisclosed ''double agent'' in the White House.
        ''I believe Watergate was played all out of proportion,'' he said in that 1975 interview. ''I believe a different yardstick was used in dealing with Mr. Nixon than was used on other presidents and officials.''
        He said many people had asked him why he stayed loyal so long. ''If I didn't defend him,'' he said, ''he would have gone undefended.''
        When Mr. Curtis retired from the Senate in 1978, Nixon repaid the loyalty at a testimonial dinner in Washington, telling the audience by telephone from San Clemente, Calif., that the senator ''always fought for the principles that made this country great.''
        In 1975, Mr. Curtis waged a successful battle to defeat Senator Jacob K. Javits, Republican of New York, for the chairmanship of the Senate Republican Caucus. It was a bitter fight ending in a secret ballot that nonetheless exposed the deep divisions in the party between moderates and conservatives.
        Although a firm conservative in his public policies and politics, Senator Curtis was the opposite in his sartorial approach; he often favored flashy plaid trousers, red blazers and uncommonly bold striped shirts.
        Throughout his career, he steadily voted his conservative beliefs, opposing many programs that are now accepted as part of the American social scene, including Medicaid, Medicare, public housing and food stamps.
        He was first elected to the House in 1938 and was re-elected seven times. He then won four terms in the Senate.
        Although he was known as Mr. Republican in Nebraska, he actually began his political career as a Democrat, a fact that The Omaha World-Herald said was generally unknown to his many friends and supporters over the years.
        His wife, Lois, died in 1970.
        Correction:  January 27, 2000, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about former Senator Carl T. Curtis of Nebraska referred incorrectly in some copies to the political party of former Senator Jacob K. Javits of New York, whom Mr. Curtis defeated for a caucus chairmanship. Mr. Javits was a Republican.
      