
        Randolph A. Hearst, the last surviving son of the man who shook American journalism and politics in the early part of the 20th century, died yesterday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. In the 1970's, he ran his father's flagship, The San Francisco Examiner, as it covered the kidnapping and brief criminal career of his own daughter.
        Mr. Hearst, who was 85, died of a stroke, according to a statement issued by The Hearst Corporation. Mr. Hearst lived in New York with his wife, Veronica de Uribe. Earlier this year, The Palm Beach Post reported that he had bought a 29,703-square-foot oceanfront home in Manalapan, Fla.
        Mr. Hearst -- he and his twin, David, were the youngest of five sons of William Randolph Hearst -- avoided his father's firebrand ways. An older brother, William R. Hearst Jr., was the journalist of his generation; Randolph Hearst preferred to serve as a steward of the family's business interests. At midcentury, that meant supporting managers who pruned away unprofitable properties from the financially struggling media empire, which by the late 1950's was losing millions of dollars a year.
        In the 1970's and 1980's, it meant that Mr. Hearst helped advance the career of a new generation of managers who vastly expanded the company's television and magazine businesses, turning Hearst into one of the largest and most profitable private media companies in a landscape increasingly dominated by publicly held corporations. Mr. Hearst was chairman of the executive committee of the corporation from 1965 to 1973, and from 1973 to 1996 he was chairman of the board of the corporation founded by his father 113 years ago.
        His nephew, William R. Hearst III, said in an interview yesterday: ''Randy was always an advocate not only for the family but for the health of the business. My own father was more interested in the editorial dimension and Randy a little more interested in the business dimension.''
        But the challenge facing Mr. Hearst and his brothers, according to two biographies of their father, was the patriarch's reluctance to entrust them with real power in his empire. William Randolph Hearst's will set up a controlling trust. Five trustees were to be family members; eight were not.
        Despite this slight, two of the brothers, William R. Jr. and Randolph, wielded real influence as senior figures in the corporation from about 1960 onward. William, the journalist, had the more public presence, but Randolph -- whether despite his affability or because of it -- was able to become an inside player as he defended the Hearst family's interests within the corporation.
        As the corporation flourished, so did the finances of Mr. Hearst and his relatives. In October 1999, Forbes magazine estimated his fortune at $1.6 billion; three nephews and two nieces were each estimated to be worth $800 million or more.
        Neither his wealth nor his business experiences, however, could have done much to prepare him for the violent events that began with the Feb. 4, 1974, kidnapping of his 19-year-old daughter from her apartment in Berkeley. The bizarre events put his family at the epicenter of one of the last spasms of domestic political violence that marked the late 1960's and early 1970's.
        Patricia Campbell Hearst was kidnapped -- gagged, her hands bound, and thrown into the trunk of a car -- by a small band of political radicals calling itself the Symbionese Liberation Army. They demanded that her father provide food for the poor, which led to the foundation of People in Need, a food distribution program.
        A little more than two months after her abduction, Ms. Hearst surfaced as an armed participant in the April 15, 1974, robbery of a local branch of the Hibernia bank. Tape recordings released by the group featured Ms. Hearst's declarations that her name was now Tanya and that she was a willing revolutionary.
        After her recapture in San Francisco on Sept. 18, 1975, Ms. Hearst was charged with multiple felonies relating to the radical group's activities. Though she renounced her claims of conversion and denounced her captors, she was convicted of armed robbery and served 22 months in prison of a seven-year sentence, before President Jimmy Carter commuted her sentence in 1979 to time served.
        During Patricia Hearst's trial in 1976, Lacey Fosburgh, a reporter for The New York Times, wrote of Mr. Hearst and his first wife, Catherine Campbell Hearst, ''They sit in her courtroom every day now, sad and serious in their blacks and navy blues, two people who have retreated from the gay social life they once led, into recurring states of isolation and fear, even anger and bitterness.''
        Larry Kramer, the chief executive of CBS Marketwatch.com, came to The Examiner in 1974 as a reporter recruited by Mr. Hearst. He said yesterday of the kidnapping and trial that Mr. Hearst ''was never the same afterward.''
        Stephen Cook, now an assistant managing editor at The San Francisco Chronicle, but at the time an Examiner reporter, said, ''I believe it changed The Examiner, so it changed him. I thought he did hear a message from his daughter that his paper was out of touch with a segment of society, maybe the needier segment of society.''
        The upheaval of the kidnapping and trial was a sharp demarcation in a life that had until then proceeded with little incident. The son of his father and Millicent Hearst, Mr. Hearst graduated from the Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, N.J., and attended Harvard University.
        His first job in the family business was as assistant to the publisher of The Atlanta Georgian in 1939. In 1941 he moved to San Francisco, but his newspapering was interrupted by World War II. He served from 1942 to 1945 in the Air Transport Command of the United States Army Air Force, becoming a captain.
        He then worked his way through jobs at The San Francisco Call-Bulletin, being named its publisher in 1950. After that, he moved into the corporate hierarchy in the 1950's and 1960's, becoming president, director and chief executive of Hearst Publishing and Hearst Consolidated Publications.
        At the time of his death he was president and a director of the William Randolph Hearst Foundation and director of The Hearst Foundation.
        Like his grandmother, Phoebe Apperson Hearst -- whose maiden name was his middle name -- he had an interest in education, and created a number of programs to enhance early childhood education.
        Among other civic activities, he served on the board of advisers of the National Conference of Christians and Jews and on the board of directors of Partnership for the Arts. He was also a member of the chairman's council of both the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
        He was divorced from his first wife, Catherine Campbell Hearst, in 1982, after 44 years of marriage. His second marriage, to Maria Cynthia Scruggs, also ended in divorce.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by five daughters, Catherine M. Hill, of California, Virginia Anne Hearst Randt of Idaho, Patricia Campbell Hearst Shaw of Westport, Conn., Anne Randolph Hearst of New York City and Victoria Veronica Hearst of Colorado; and four grandchildren.
        But he was not really survived by the newspaper which gave his family its start in the business. On Nov. 22, ownership of The San Francisco Examiner was transferred to a local businessman, as the Hearst Corporation gave up the flagging newspaper that had been part of its history and assumed control of its longtime rival, The San Francisco Chronicle.
      