
        Valerio Longoria, an accordion player and a prominent early figure in south Texas conjunto music, died on Friday in a nursing home in San Antonio. He was 75 and lived in San Antonio.
        Conjunto is a hard-driving dance music in which the accordion leads a small band that also includes the guitarlike bajo sexto and the drums. In the development of the music, Mr. Longoria was the next major innovator after creators of the form like  Narciso Martinez and Santiago Jimenez.
        Mr. Longoria was born in Clarksdale, Miss., in 1924, one of nine children of cotton field workers, and spent his early childhood in Kennedy, Tex. He began playing accordion at age 7, and he was soon under the spell of Martinez, the accordionist who in the mid-1930's helped conjunto become a popular, working-class dance music and created a new, more indigenously Texas-Mexican style of playing the accordion, with fewer bass notes and more focus on the melody.
        Mr. Longoria played at weddings and parties in Harlingen, Tex., as a teenager, then joined the Army in 1942. Toward the end of his military service, he was stationed in Germany, where he played the accordion in nightclubs.
        In 1946 he was discharged and soon made his first recordings, for the Corona label in San Antonio.  When he began his career, conjunto was strictly instrumental music, but Mr. Longoria sang with it, and through his influence singing became part of the genre.
        He originally played the standard prewar repertory of Texas border music -- waltzes, huapangos and schottisches -- but then began to add new elements. He learned the Colombian cumbia while living among Puerto Ricans in Chicago in the late 1950's, and after he adopted it, it became an important part of Mexican-American conjunto. He popularized, if not pioneered, the practice among south Texas conjunto musicians of playing the accordion while standing up and it is said that he was the first to use the modern trap drum set in conjunto, in 1948.
        Mr. Longoria created a different style of playing, improving on that of Martinez -- ''a smoother style, with longer extended runs,'' said Juan Tejeda, a conjunto music historian. He  also sang while playing the lead line on the accordion, another innovation.
        His voice, more stylized and sophisticated than that of many other conjunto singers, was suited to the romantic bolero; when that style became popular in Mexico, he was among the first to play it in south Texas. He also popularized the cancion ranchera, a sentimental song sung in waltz tempo.
        ''He had a real spark to him,'' said Chris Strachwitz, who produced some records by Mr. Longoria for Arhoolie Records in the 1980's. ''I believe he had one of the best voices of any of the singers from San Antonio.''
        Mr. Longoria's other innovations involved the accordion. He turned around and retuned the reeds of the instrument to transpose them to other keys. He also customized them in a manner that he called octavacion: changing the reeds so that single notes could be voiced in two octaves at once. Ultimately, he used three accordions in his performances, all in different keys: diatonic accordions in F and G, and a special chromatic accordion that he built himself.
        After living for a time in Los Angeles, Mr. Longoria moved back to San Antonio in 1980 and began a 20-year teaching career at the Guadalupe Cultural Center, where he taught beginning and master's-level accordion classes to more than 1,000 students. In 1986 he was awarded a National Heritage Fellowship Award.
        Mr. Longoria is survived by his wife, Rebecca; four sons, Valerio III, Alex, Juan and Flavio; two brothers, Steve and Rudy; and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      