
        Don Budge, the red-haired athlete who helped redefine the terms of his sport by becoming the first player to win the Grand Slam of tennis, in 1938, died yesterday in Scranton, Pa. He was 84.
        Budge was injured Dec. 14 in northeastern Pennsylvania when the car he was driving skidded off a wet road and struck trees in the Pocono Mountains. He had to be cut from the wreckage and was hospitalized in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., until Jan. 8, when he was transferred to a nursing home in Scranton.
        Born in Oakland, Calif., on June 13, 1915, John Donald Budge came to tennis as a teenager already enamored of more rough-and-tumble sports like football and soccer, which had been dear to the heart of his Scottish father. When he decided to concentrate on tennis, he brought a big man's bravado to the game and by the age of 19 had been selected to represent his country in international Davis Cup competition.
        One of the early practitioners of power tennis, which has come to dominate today's game, the 6-foot2-inch Budge was probably the first player to use his backhand -- along with a crunching serve, smash and forehand -- as an attacking stroke. In fact, his rolled backhand changed tennis technique, and his overall excellence earned him distinction as one of the best to ever play the game.
        His size, strength and bulldog tenacity allowed him not only to outmuscle his opponents, but also to occasionally batter them into submission, much as he did when he dismissed Henry W. Austin of Britain in a mere 66 minutes in the 1938 Wimbledon final.
        Budge initially distinguished himself as the major threat to Fred Perry of England, the reigning No. 1 amateur, when he reached the 1936 Wimbledon semifinals at the age of 21 as well as the final of that year's United States Nationals. But Budge's raw power was tamed by Perry.
        Once Perry turned professional in 1937, the boyish, affable Budge not only inherited his mantle as the world's top amateur, but also began staking his claim to the coveted Grand Slam crowns, which at that time were closed to professionals. The major tournaments did not allow professionals to compete until 1968.
        Budge captured both Wimbledon and the United States Nationals in 1937, received the Sullivan award as the nation's top amateur athlete, and procrastinated about turning professional himself to help his country keep its Davis Cup championship in 1938. Budge completed a stellar Davis Cup career with a record of 19-2 in singles and 6-2 in doubles. He reached his career apex in terms of drama, tension and match-playing flourish in the fifth and decisive match of the 1937 Davis Cup interzone final against Gottfried von Cramm of Germany.
        According to Bill Tilden, the tennis champion who was coaching the German team at the time, Budge's heroic comeback stood as ''the greatest match ever played.''
        Not only was the tennis superb, but the event had implications far beyond sport. ''War talk was everywhere,'' Budge recalled in a book by the tennis writer and historian Bud Collins. ''Hitler was doing everything he could to stir up Germany. The atmosphere was filled with tension although von Cramm was a known anti-Nazi and remained one of the finest gentlemen and most popular players on the circuit.''
        The competition was played at Wimbledon before a rapt audience that included Queen Mary and Jack Benny, to name two. Just before Budge and von Cramm took to Center Court with the series tied at 2-2, von Cramm received a supportive telephone call from Adolf Hitler.
        Budge rallied from two sets down to even the match, but then fell behind again, this time into a 4-1 fifth-set deficit. Abandoning caution, the American charged the net behind fierce returns of von Cramm's serve and twice broke back to pull even at 4-4. As daylight began to fade, the score went to 5-5, and 6-6. Then Budge again broke von Cramm's serve and edged ahead for the first time, 7-6. The German fought off five match points on Budge's serve; on the sixth, Budge capped a prolonged rally with a lunging forehand winner that sent the victor to the ground. Game, set and match to the United States: 6-8, 5-7, 6-4, 6-2, 8-6.
        The United States team went on to win the Davis Cup for the first time since 1926 by defeating Britain in the final. Von Cramm was sent to a concentration camp in 1938, and Budge later appealed for his release.
        Despite offers to turn professional in 1938, Budge elected to preserve his amateur status to help keep the Davis Cup; he also, in an understated campaign he referred to as ''something of an afterthought,'' became the first player to capture all four Grand Slam events within a calendar year. Budge won the Australian, French, Wimbledon and United States Nationals with the loss of only one set over all in the four finals.
        After fulfilling his dream of defending his Wimbledon title that year, the 23-year-old Budge gave himself a typically low-key accolade: ''I never played better,'' he said after trouncing Austin, 6-1, 6-0, 6-3, ''but it was just one of those things.''
        Rod Laver, another redhead, is the only man to have repeated Budge's feat on the Grand Slam front. Laver, an Australian, won the Grand Slam while an amateur in 1962, and then repeated his feat seven years later after the tournaments had been opened to professional players.
        After his 1938 victories, Budge vaulted to legendary status, and comparisons invariably arose between him and the century's greatest previous star, Tilden.
        Collins said there was little doubt in Tilden's mind as to who was the better overall player. ''I consider him,'' Tilden said of Budge, ''the finest player 365 days a year who ever lived.''
        Tony Trabert, who in 1955 won Wimbledon, the French Open and the United States Nationals, the only man besides Budge and Laver to accomplish that feat in a single year, said of Budge: ''He stands tall in the record books. He had a lot of self-confidence as well as one of the game's all-time weapons in his backhand. His backhand was what we called a concluder, the sort of shot people will still be talking about a hundred years later.''
        Budge won a total of 14 Grand Slam titles: six in singles, four in doubles and four in mixed doubles.
        And his tennis life did not end after he turned pro in late 1938. In his pro debut at Madison Square Garden in 1939, he defeated Ellsworth Vines. All told on the pro circuit, Budge posted a winning record against Vines, Perry and Tilden, and he defeated Bobby Riggs in straight sets for the 1942 United States Pro title.
        Later that year, Budge enlisted in the Army Air Forces; an injury to his right shoulder during military training hurt his playing style. Budge reached his last United States Pro final in 1953 and was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in Newport, R.I., in 1964.
        Budge is survived by his second wife, Loriel, and two sons, David of Los Angeles and Jeffrey of Boston.
      