
        James S. Jones, an architect whose passion was following packs of basset hounds on foot in pursuit of elusive hares, died Nov. 13 at a nursing home in Chester, N.J. He was 86.
        The son of a real estate developer who in the 1920's sold New Yorkers estates in the rolling countryside of central New Jersey, he became a fixture in what is now known as the state's horse country. But early in his career he could not afford a horse, his friend and fellow hunter Joseph B. Wiley Jr. said. So he did the next best thing; he followed the bellowing hounds on foot.
        Almost a rough-hewn Ralph Lauren creation, wearing a green -- not red -- coat with a robin's egg-blue collar, tan shorts and Prussian blue stockings, Mr. Jones led a flock of similarly attired adventurers. As master of the hunt, he carried the horn to signal the hounds.
        The Chronicle of the Horse magazine called him ''dean of the American foot hound hunters.'' In 1953, he and a friend, Haliburton Fales II, started what many aficionados considered the finest foot hunter organization in the United States, the Tewksbury Foot Bassets in Pottersville, N.J. The group was written about in one of the first issues of Sports Illustrated.
        In the 1960's, the Duke of Windsor judged the New Jersey club's annual puppy show, and in the 1980's Mr. Jones judged the prestigious Peterborough Royal Foxhound Show in England. The Masters of Basset Hounds Association in England stood in silence for a few minutes in Mr. Jones's honor at a Nov. 19 meeting.
        His architectural achievements with several New York City firms and several firms he headed in Morristown, N.J., included houses, office buildings and churches all along the East Coast, his son, F. Macy Jones, said. Among them is the chapel at Rutgers University.
        But for him, all else paled before the floppy-eared dogs. ''His highest priority was always the hounds,'' Mr. Wiley said.
        If longevity conveys credibility, foot hound hunting is not as odd as it may sound. Xenophon, the Greek historian, wrote about the sport in the fifth century B.C., and Shakespeare referred to what were almost surely basset hounds in ''A Midsummer Night's Dream.'' In New Jersey, the sport long ago reached a level of respectability. It is more than tolerated by mounted fox hunters, who, after all, also depend on hounds' sense of smell.
        ''They think we're a little funny,'' said Mr. Wiley, who began hunting with Mr. Jones in 1953. ''But they tolerate us and always have.''
        Mr. Wiley said the satisfaction comes partly from walking with a low-slung, pendulous-eared canine with which even he, at 82, can more or less keep up. Most inspiring to aficionados is the ''music of the hounds,'' when they howl in a range of notes when they catch the scent.
        But the hounds catch the hare only about a quarter of the time. Mr. Wiley said a hunt goes pretty much like the fable of the tortoise and the hare: the hare darts hundreds of yards ahead, then stops to rest. When the hounds approach, the hare, if still awake, takes off.
        Mr. Wiley said the best hunts end with the hare finally going down its hole after a day's chase. ''The hounds feel happy to have brought the hare to the end of its run,'' he said. ''Let's go look for another one.''
        James Suydam Jones was born in Far Hills, N.J., on Jan. 10, 1914. He attended the Choate School, Yale University and the Yale School of Architecture. But hounds were his first love. His father, Frederick W. Jones Jr., bought two pairs of beagles for him when he was 8.
        He relished the memory in all its colorful detail. In 1971, in a self-published history of hounds in New Jersey, he said the hounds were bought from ''a great character'' who had become rich selling bootleg liquor to ''sporting people on Wall Street.'' The man's wife would attend hound shows with a big box of chocolates on her lap, occasionally tossing candy to the hounds in the ring, ''causing great confusion.''
        Mr. Jones dropped out of architecture school for several years to become master of the hunt with the Spring Valley Hounds, eventually returning to school. Hounds, it was clear, were his calling. ''He had a natural instinct and hounds were able to detect that,'' Mr. Wiley said.
        As a beginning architect, he found that he could no longer afford to ride a horse behind foxhounds. But he always remained a member of the Essex Hunt, his father's pride and joy.
        ''It was the dollar sign that put him on his feet,'' Mr. Wiley said.
        In 1938, he married Elizabeth Macy, an event that ''drastically reduced my hunting activities,'' according to his memoir. Their honeymoon was spent in England, hunting with the Westerby Pack, known for its high-quality basset hounds. His wife died in 1985. He is survived by Mr. Jones of Wenham, Mass.; his daughter, Elizabeth Jones Dennis of Santa Fe, N.M.; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        Ms. Dennis said her mother was supportive of the hunting but hated Sunday nights, when her husband would return with dirty clothing and boots that had to be cleaned.
        Others had their troubles with Mr. Jones while hunting. Indeed, Mr. Wiley said Mr. Jones's none-too-polite instructions to fellow hunters sometimes caused them to yank off their green jackets and throw them on the ground.
        Rex Hudson, president of the English basset hounds association, said, ''He was bawling you out for not being three miles ahead, when at the time you were sitting absolutely exhausted on a tree stump, unable to run another yard.''
        In 1967, Mr. Jones and Mr. Wiley went to England to buy nine basset hounds, which they took home to replenish the genes of the Tewksbury pack. The English dogs, which are bred for hunting, not a cute appearance, have slightly longer legs and smaller ears.
        Known as Jimmy, Mr. Jones habitually wore tattered clothes, but only ones that had been of exceptionally high quality when purchased. Even when he could no longer keep up on hunts, he would occasionally come as a spectator -- wearing a hacking jacket with scarf fluttering in the breeze, britches and knee socks stuffed into desert boots, dangling pipe and walking stick in hand. At hound shows, he wore a top hat.
        About 20 hounds, the best hunters, are expected to be in attendance at his memorial service on Friday at St. Luke's Church in Gladstone, N.J., where he designed the parish house and other architectural features.
        ''He didn't think he was eccentric,'' Mr. Wiley said. ''He tried to be normal, but didn't quite make it.''
      