
        Onofrio Ottomanelli, who opened a Greenwich Village butcher shop half a century ago that grew into a New York institution, died Friday at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 83.
        Mr. Ottomanelli, whose motto was ''live, work and trade in the Village,'' distinguished himself from other local butchers and won a citywide clientele by offering fresh game in addition to prime meats and poultry.
        That specialty helped the store grow into a retail and wholesale business supplying homes and restaurants. It remains a feature at the original store, which has moved several times but is still on Bleecker Street.
        Mr. Ottomanelli was born in Upper Manhattan in 1917 but moved back with his family to their hometown of Bari, Italy, before he was 3. There, on his grandparents' farm, he learned the butchering trade from his grandmother.
        In 1937, he returned to New York and was drafted into the Army during World War II. After he was wounded and discharged, he began working with his brother Joe at their uncle's Yorkville butcher shop, later called Joe's Quality Meat Market. A few years later, he opened O. Ottomanelli & Sons on Bleecker Street.
        (Ottomanelli Brothers, which includes several markets in Manhattan as well as cafes, bakeries and a mail order service, is a separate business that grew out of Joe's Quality Meat Market and is run by nephews of Mr. Ottomanelli's.)
        For decades, Mr. Ottomanelli awakened before sunrise to get to the wholesale meat market by 5 a.m. to make his selections, cultivating his relationship with his suppliers.
        ''A lot of the suppliers would say, 'Make us your first stop,' '' his son Frank said, meaning that Mr. Ottomanelli would be guaranteed first pick of their meats and they would be guaranteed his business.
        As O. Ottomanelli expanded, Mr. Ottomanelli encouraged his sons, Gerry, Nick, Frank, Peter, Michael and Joseph, to work in the store, teaching them to butcher by practicing trimming bones.
        ''He always used to say, 'Every time you cut a piece of meat, it's money,' '' Frank said. ''So we learned on the cheap stuff.''
        Mr. Ottomanelli's sons Michael and Nick have left Bleecker Street to work elsewhere in the meat industry, but the other four remain. He is also survived by a daughter, Rosemarie.
        His wife, Anna, died in the mid-1970's.
        Many of his children moved away as they married and started families, but Mr. Ottomanelli remained in the Village, moving several times but staying within walking distance of the shop. His last address was 287 Bleecker Street, next to his store between Jones Street and Seventh Avenue South.
        Until he was admitted to the hospital two months ago, Mr. Ottomanelli was a regular sight in the neighborhood, at the store overseeing his sons, on the street chatting with other merchants or at a restaurant drinking a beer.
        Three years ago, Frank persuaded his father to let him and his brothers pay for a monthlong 80th-birthday trip to Italy, where Mr. Ottomanelli had not been for at least 20 years. Frank and his wife spent the last week of the trip with him.
        ''I think that was the first time in my life he ever told me I was right,'' Frank said.
        Frank's son Matthew Ottomanelli remembered his grandfather's approach to work. ''Everything had to be done the right way,'' he said.
        The only one of Mr. Ottomanelli's 17 grandchildren to go into the meat business, Matthew was at work at the store the day of his grandfather's burial, to make sure the wholesale orders were filled properly.
        ''I missed his funeral to take care of my family,'' Matthew Ottomanelli said. ''It's how he would have wanted it.''
      