
        Dr. Robert Hans Goetz, a cardiovascular surgeon who pioneered coronary bypass surgery and devised an arterial pump to sustain a patient's ailing heart, died Friday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 90.
        Dr. Goetz's career led him from his native Germany to South Africa and on to New York, where he was affiliated with Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University from 1957 until he retired from practice as a clinical professor emeritus of surgery in 1982.
        In the 1950's, while in Cape Town, Dr. Goetz gained international attention with his work on blood circulation, particularly his study of the physiology and blood pressure of the giraffe, whose ability to lift its head from the ground to full height without fainting had confounded zoologists.
        He also began to explore the possibility of coronary artery bypasses, and one of his students in Cape Town was Christiaan N. Barnard, who accomplished the first human heart transplant at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town in 1967.
        In 1960, after coming to New York, Dr. Goetz performed artery bypass surgery at Bronx Municipal Hospital on a 38-year-old patient who lived for more than a year. No autopsy was performed, and the details of the surgery were never documented, so Dr. Goetz's accomplishment went largely unrecognized for years.
        But the Society of Thoracic Surgeons, in its Annals of June 2000, credited him with completing ''the first successful clinical coronary operation on May 2, 1960.''
        ''It was an important and brave step that was far ahead of its time,'' the society declared. ''Unfortunately, his pioneering work was not appreciated and fell into oblivion.''
        Also in the 1960's, Dr. Goetz developed an intra-aortic balloon pump, still in use today, to give mechanical support to patients with severe heart problems after heart attacks or operations. A son, Lionel J., then a student working on a medical project at Einstein, helped him with the project, and they received a patent in 1972.
        Robert Hans Goetz was born in Frankfurt-on-Main and studied medicine at the university there, easily passing his exams. He was not Jewish, but his anti-Nazi views branded him as politically unreliable. Denied his diploma, he left.
        He moved to Switzerland to receive his M.D. at the University of Bern in 1936 and accepted a surgical fellowship the next year at the University of Cape Town, where he helped organize the surgical research department at its affiliated Groote Schuur Hospital.
        But Dr. Goetz found the political atmosphere under apartheid stifling and accepted an appointment as associate professor at Einstein in 1957, affiliating with Bronx Lebanon Medical Center and Beth-El Hospital in Brooklyn.
        At Einstein, Dr. Goetz helped set up a surgery research department, as he had done at Groote Schuur.
        In retirement, he spent much time at his Rosebank Farm in Germantown, N.Y., where he bred prize-winning Angus bulls.
        In addition to his son Lionel, a resident of Fairfield, Conn., Dr. Goetz is survived by his wife of 67 years, Dr. Verena Bluntschli Goetz; two daughters, Sylvia Perli of Detroit and Angela Goetz of Manhattan; another son, Steven, of Los Altos Hills, Calif.; eight grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
      