
        Diodoros I, who for two decades led the largest and oldest of the Christian churches in the Holy Land as the Greek Orthodox patriarch here, died Tuesday night at the age of 77 after a prolonged illness.
        As Orthodox priests and other mourners prayed today in the dark, candle-lit chapel inside the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate, local bishops gathered to discuss the selection of an interim successor to Diodoros.
        A new patriarch is expected to be chosen by bishops of the Jerusalem patriarchate in a synod early next year, with two of Diodoros's long-time assistants -- Metropolitan Timothy, the patriarchate's chief secretary, and Metropolitan Eirinaios, its representative in Greece -- said to be leading candidates.
        Born in the Aegean islands of Greece, Diodoros moved to Palestine during the British mandate in 1938 and joined a monastery in 1944, beginning a steady ascent through the hierarchy. He was named an archbishop in 1962 and became patriarch in 1981. His death was the result of a long bout with diabetes-related ailments that had limited his public appearances.
        The Jerusalem patriarch's domain is relatively small, embracing fewer than 100,000 Greek Orthodox Christians in Israel, Jordan and the Palestinian territories.
        But with its historic control over some of the most sacred sites in Christianity -- including the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem and much of the Church of the Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem -- the Jerusalem patriarchate is considered one of the most important posts in the Orthodox Christian world. In the Greek church, Jerusalem is outranked only by the equally ancient patriarchates of Constantinople, Alexandria and Antioch.
        A fierce defender of what he considered the traditional prerogatives of his patriarchate, Diodoros clashed with the patriarch of Antioch and other Orthodox leaders over his efforts toward affiliation with local churches in Australia and North America, and his assertion of traditional rights over Russian and other Orthodox church properties within his jurisdiction.
        He was perhaps best known in international Orthodox circles for his skeptical resistance to ecumenical dialogue with Roman Catholics and other Christian groups. These outreach efforts could dilute the Greek Orthodox creed and encourage proselytizing of the Orthodox community by other Christian churches, he argued.
        As with many Orthodox leaders, he was especially critical of what he saw as the Vatican's efforts to assert primacy among the Christian churches of the Holy Land, even though Orthodox Christians have for centuries greatly outnumbered the region's Roman and Eastern Rite Catholics. Yet when John Paul II made his pilgrimage here in March, Diodoros I received him at the Jerusalem Patriarchate office and discussed ways to heal the millennium-old breach between the Orthodox and Latin churches.
        To many in the local Christian Orthodox community, Diodoros had become a somewhat remote figure in recent years. In part because of his failing health, he had been eclipsed as a spokesman for the Palestinian Christian community by Michel Sabbah, the Latin patriarch.
        Diodoros was criticized by Palestinian Christians for reported sales and long-term leases of church properties in Israel, though in a recent case the patriarchate produced evidence that one of its leases had been extended fraudulently, without the patriarch's knowledge.
      