
        Roebuck (Pops) Staples, whose family gospel group, the Staple Singers, carried message songs to a huge pop audience, died on Tuesday at his home in Dolton, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He was 85.
        The Staple Singers were Mr. Staples and his children: first a son and two daughters, later three daughters. With hits like ''I'll Take You There'' and ''Respect Yourself,'' featuring the husky lead vocals of Mavis Staples, the Staple Singers linked gospel, blues and soul behind messages of hope and dignity. The songs envisioned better times and racial harmony amid the discord of the late 1960's and early 70's. Mr. Staples made two albums on his own in the 1990's; the second, ''Father Father,'' won a Grammy Award in 1995.
        With his high, pensive, admonitory voice and his pointed guitar picking, Mr. Staples was a link between the Delta blues and the thoughtful soul songs of Curtis Mayfield.
        ''His gentle, undulating style was the backbone of the Staples' magic, his deep and unwavering faith bear wings,'' said Bonnie Raitt, who produced part of Mr. Staples's album ''Peace to the Neighborhood.''
        Mr. Staples was born in Winona, Miss., on Dec. 28, 1914, the 13th child in a family of seven sons and seven daughters. Reared in Drew, Miss., he  grew up picking cotton as a young man and hearing a cappella gospel singing at home and in church. As a teenager he began listening to Delta bluesmen like Robert Johnson and Charley Patton, who was a fellow cotton picker at the Dockery plantation. He started playing guitar at 16, learning from his Delta neighbors and from records by Blind Lemon Jefferson, Big Bill Broonzy and Memphis Slim. He developed a spiky, syncopated fingerpicking style, which he would later amplify with a distinctive reverb. But he devoted himself to gospel, and sang with the Golden Trumpets, a local gospel group.
        In 1936 Mr. Staples moved to Chicago with his wife, Oceola, and their daughter, Cleotha; in Chicago they had four more children, Pervis, Yvonne, Mavis and Cynthia. He is survived by all of his children except Cynthia, and by 14 grandchildren.
        While he worked in steel mills and meatpacking plants, he also performed with the Trumpet Jubilees gospel group. He began singing at home with Pervis, Mavis and Cleotha, and in 1948 they became the Staple Singers, performing in Chicago churches and then around the South.
        The Staple Singers began recording in 1953, making singles for the United and VeeJay labels, and they had their first gospel hit, ''Uncloudy Day,'' in 1957. When Mavis Staples finished high school, Pops Staples quit his day job to lead the Staple Singers full time.
        The group allied itself with the civil rights movement and the folk revival in the early 1960's, recording positive-thinking protest songs for the Riverside label and performing at folk festivals. Gospel traditionalists initially rejected the group, considering its music too secular. ''We just kept singing and praying, and we let our music carry our message,'' Mr. Staples once said.
        The group moved to Epic Records, for which they recorded versions of Bob Dylan and Woody Guthrie songs. ''Why? (Am I Treated So Bad),'' a bluesy song that protested segregation, reached No. 95 on the pop charts in 1967. They traveled and performed with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and when King was assassinated  in 1968, the Staple Singers released ''Long Walk to D.C.'' as a memorial.
        The group signed to Stax Records in 1968, and its sound turned to soul music. It had a No. 2 hit with ''Respect Yourself'' in 1971, a No. 1 hit with ''I'll Take You There'' in 1972, and other Top 40 hits with ''Heavy Makes You Happy'' and ''If You're Ready (Come Go With Me).''
        Pervis Staples left the group for military service in 1971, and was replaced by Yvonne. While the Staple Singers were recording for Stax, Pops Staples also released his own singles: thoughtful, socially conscious songs like ''Black Boy'' and ''Whicha Way Did It Go.''
        The Staple Singers signed with Mr. Mayfield's Curtom Label in 1975, and had another No. 1 hit, ''Let's Do It Again.'' The group appeared in the music documentaries ''Soul to Soul,'' ''Wattstax'' and ''The Last Waltz,'' and toured worldwide. During the 1980's, the Staple Singers tried dance music, and had dance-floor hits with versions of the Talking Heads' ''Slippery People'' and ''Life During Wartime.''
        Mr. Staples played a voodoo doctor in David Byrne's 1986 film, ''True Stories.'' He made his first solo album in 1987, and in 1990 he played King Creon in Chicago and San Francisco productions of ''The Gospel at Colonus.'' In 1997 he appeared in the movie ''Wag the Dog.''
        While he continued to lead the Staple Singers, Mr. Staples also maintained his solo career. He released ''Peace to the Neighborhood'' (Pointblank) in 1992, with songs produced by Ms. Raitt, Jackson Browne and Ry Cooder. Mr. Cooder also produced ''Father Father'' (Pointblank) in 1994, which won the Grammy award for best contemporary blues album.
        In the 1990's the Staple Singers received the Rhythm-and-Blues Foundation's Pioneer Award and were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Mr. Staples was named a National Heritage Fellow in the folk and traditional arts, and Pops Staples Park was established in Drew.
        ''We've always tried to make music that is affirmative, happy music that makes a positive point,'' Mr. Staples once told an interviewer. ''We want people to enjoy the music, but we also want them to hear the lyrics and hear our message -- love.''
      