
        Dr. Stephen A. Mitchell, who played a significant role in shaping the way many modern American psychoanalysts think about and practice their profession, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54.
        The cause of death had not been determined, but a colleague, Dr. Lewis Aron, said Dr. Mitchell had had heart problems.
        Dr. Mitchell was known for his lucid and accessible writing about psychoanalytic theory in books that attracted a wide professional and popular audience.
        He was also widely recognized as a leader and promoter of what is known as the relational perspective in psychoanalysis, which in recent years has gained broad acceptance among psychoanalysts in the United States. The approach draws both from the work of American theorists like Dr. Harry Stack Sullivan and Dr. Erich Fromm and from the work of British psychoanalysts like Melanie Klein and Dr. D. W. Winnicott, founders of the psychoanalytic school known as object relations.
        Relational approaches diverge from classical Freudian theory, which places its emphasis on instinctual sexual and aggressive drives. In contrast, relational theories stress the patient's relationships, both fantasized and real, with other people.
        As an adjunct professor and clinical supervisor at New York University's postdoctoral program in psychotherapy and psychoanalysis, Dr. Mitchell helped establish a curriculum in relational psychoanalysis. He was also active at the William Alanson White Institute, where he had served as a training analyst since 1989 and a supervising analyst since 1985.
        Dr. Mitchell was the founding editor of the journal Psychoanalytic Dialogues, which fostered exchanges among psychoanalysts from disparate schools. Recently, he also helped found the International Association for Relational Psychoanalysis, and he was to have served as the organization's first president.
        He was born in Manhattan, graduated summa cum laude from Yale in 1968, majoring in philosophy, and received a doctoral degree in clinical psychology from New York University in 1972. In 1977, he completed the psychoanalytic training program at the White Institute.
        Dr. Mitchell's books include the influential text, written with Dr. Jay Greenberg, ''Object Relations in Psychoanalytic Theory,'' published in 1993; ''Hope and Dread in Psychoanalysis,'' published in 1993; and ''Relationality: From Attachment to Intersubjectivity,'' which was published this year.
        He had recently completed a new book, ''The Degradation of Romance,'' written for the general public. The book is scheduled for publication next year.
        Dr. Mitchell is survived by his wife, Margaret Black; two daughters, Caitlin, 17, and Samantha, 14; his father, Stanley, of Cliffside Park, N.J.; and his brother and sister-in-law, Richard and Jan Mitchell of Portland, Ore.
      