
        Joseph Heitz, who made one of America's most famous wines and helped put the Napa Valley of California on the map as a source of fine wines made from bordeaux grapes,  died there last Saturday at a hospital in the town of St. Helena. He was 81.
        The cause of death was not disclosed, but he had had several debilitating strokes in recent years.
        Joe Heitz -- no one ever called him anything but Joe -- was the founder and president of Heitz Cellars, at St. Helena. Over the years he produced a variety of wines, but his reputation was based almost entirely on just one of them: his Martha's Vineyard cabernet sauvignon, named not for the island off Massachusetts but for the vineyard that supplied him the grapes. That vineyard, in nearby  Oakville, is owned by Tom and Martha May and is named for Mrs. May.
        For more than two decades, Heitz Martha's Vineyard was the benchmark by which California cabernets were judged. A wine of astonishing depth and staying power, some of its earliest vintages, including 1966, the first, are still delicious.
        In his 1989 book, ''California's Great Cabernets,'' James Laube rated Martha's Vineyard the best of all of them from 1966 through 1970 and in 1974, and among the top three in 1973, 1975, 1979 and 1985.
        Some connoisseurs call the 1974 Martha's Vineyard one of the finest cabernets ever made in California.
        Mr. Heitz was born on a farm in Princeton, Ill., some 100 miles west of Chicago, and joined the Army Air Corps after two years at a junior college. For most of World War II, he served as a mechanic at an Air Corps base near Fresno, Calif. On his days off, he later recalled, he  knocked on doors looking for part-time work ''to pick up beer money.''
        One of those doors was at the Italian Swiss Colony winery, which hired him and set him on his career path.
        After the war, he enrolled at the University of California at Davis and earned bachelor's and master's degrees in winemaking. He worked for E. & J. Gallo in Modesto for a time, then in 1951 went to Beaulieu Vineyards in the Napa Valley as an assistant winemaker, for $325 a month. He stayed at Beaulieu almost 10 years, working for the legendary Andre Tchelistcheff.
        Then, in 1961, after four years teaching enology at Fresno State University, he decided to go into business for himself. He found a small vineyard just south of St. Helena planted entirely with grignolino, an obscure Italian grape. Scraping up about $5,000, he bought the eight-acre tract and set out to support his family on the $4,500 a year he was told the place would earn.
        His first break came in 1963, when he bought several barrels of wine from Hanzell Vineyards in Sonoma, which was shutting down temporarily. Blending the wines in his own cellar, he produced some exceptional  chardonnay and some respectable cabernet sauvignon. His reputation began to grow.
        In 1965, he bought his first cabernet grapes from the Mays. He blended them into his regular cabernet that year, but the result was so good that in 1966 he vinified the Mays' grapes separately. That was the beginning of a California legend.
        The Mays' vineyard, like almost all vineyards in the Napa Valley, was devastated in the early 1990's by  phylloxera -- small insects that attack plant roots -- and subsequently replanted. No Martha's Vineyard cabernet has been released since 1992.
        In the mid-1960's, Mr. Heitz moved his home and winery across the Napa Valley to an almost hidden spot off the Silverado Trail known as Spring Valley. He expanded over the years, eventually owning 350 acres of grapes. But he never owned any of Martha's Vineyard or of Bella Oaks Vineyard, the source of his second cabernet, a wine that some connoisseurs have preferred to the Martha's Vineyard.
        Mr. Heitz was not given to the laid-back California style or the heavy social schedule of many of his neighbors. Tall, intense and with some irascible, he detested the small talk of wine dilettantes and would often subject guests, particularly journalists, to an informal tasting before submitting to questions. But while he was a private person in a gregarious world, he helped more than a few wine newcomers get started in the Napa Valley.
        Mr. Heitz's son David began to take on winemaking responsibilities in the late 1970's and is currently the Heitz Cellars winemaker. A daughter, Kathleen Heitz Myers, is now president. Also surviving are Mr. Heitz's wife, Alice, and another son, Rollie.
        ''Joe transcended the narrow view of winemaking that prevailed in the 60's,'' said his friend Warren Winiarski, founder of another Napa Valley winery, Stag's Leap Wine Cellars. ''Joe looked at wine as an outsider.  When he pushed his price to $9 a bottle, people said, 'This is madness.' But he persisted. He asked, 'Would an artist base his price on the cost of the paint and brushes?' In the Napa Valley, he was the first artisan.''
      