
        Alan Tyson, a British musicologist and psychoanalyst whose works on Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven over the last 40 years are considered among the most important achievements of modern musical scholarship, died on Nov. 10 at Shoreham-by-Sea, in Sussex, England. He was 74.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, according to The Daily Telegraph of London.
        Starting in the early 1960's, Dr. Tyson published articles showing, for example, that two piano trios attributed to Haydn were actually by Ignaz Pleyel, and that the most familiar edition of the Mozart Horn Concertos (K. 412) had been embellished with the work of later composers.
        In a 1962 essay on Beethoven's Violin Concerto, he showed that the standard published text of the work was not reliable, and published a corrected, definitive edition.
        His specialized studies of manuscript paper, detailed in his 1986 book, ''Mozart: Studies of the Autograph Scores,'' helped establish not only the correct chronology of Mozart's compositions but also the order in which the separate numbers in ''Le Nozze di Figaro'' and ''La Clemenza di Tito'' were composed. His analysis of Beethoven's sketchbooks helped establish their proper order and illuminated their creator's compositional methods.
        Dr. Tyson collaborated with Robert S. Winter and Douglas Johnson on ''The Beethoven Sketchbooks: History, Reconstruction and Inventory,'' an essential study published in 1985. The long entry on Beethoven in The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians -- a collaboration between Dr. Tyson and Joseph Kerman -- was published separately as a book and offers a concise, comprehensive introduction to the composer and his work. All told, Dr. Tyson wrote, edited or collaborated on 13 books, and published nearly 100 scholarly papers.
        Alan Walker Tyson was born in Glasgow on Oct. 27, 1926, and studied the viola and piano as a child, but was not at first interested in pursuing a career in music. As a student at Magdalen College, Oxford, he studied classical literature.
        But an interest in psychiatry put his career on another path: in 1953, he became an assistant editor of the Standard Edition of Freud, and translated into English ''The Psychopathology of Everyday Life'' and several of Freud's shorter studies. He also studied psychoanalysis at the Institute of Psychoanalysis and medicine at the University College Hospital, completing his medical degree in 1965.
        By then he had published several important musicological papers, and was dividing his time between his interests -- practicing medicine at University College and New End hospitals, lecturing on psychology and psychiatry at Columbia University and at Oxford, and looking into various musical mysteries by studying musical manuscripts and early printed editions. He also did important work on the music of Muzio Clementi and John Field.
        Dr. Tyson became a fellow at All Souls College, Oxford, in 1952 and a senior fellow in 1971, remaining until he retired, in 1994. He also taught at the University of California at Berkeley and at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton. He was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1989.
      