
        Myron A. Minskoff, a real estate executive who oversaw the construction of sizable business and residential buildings in New York and other cities, died on Dec. 17 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 83 and also had homes in Palm Beach, Fla., and Southampton, N.Y.
        Mr. Minskoff, who directed the building of the Minskoff Theater, on Broadway at West 45th Street, was the last surviving child of Sam Minskoff, a noted real estate developer in New York. The Minskoff family has long owned and managed buildings in Manhattan.
        In a 1981 interview, Myron Minskoff recalled that his father had said to him, '' 'Women will teach you how to build apartments; get their complaints, remember them and you will be a good builder.' '' Mr. Minskoff added, ''He was right.''
        Myron and two brothers, Henry and Jerome, took over Sam Minskoff & Sons, based in Manhattan, after their father died in 1950. The three became equal partners.
        Myron was the company's partner in charge of construction from 1950 until 1981, when he left it to form his own company, Myron A. Minskoff Inc. During those three decades with his brothers, he oversaw the construction of almost $2 billion worth of buildings. Sam Minskoff & Sons was dissolved in the early 1990's.
        The new company, also based in Manhattan, engages in real estate investment and development. Mr. Minskoff was its president for almost two decades, from its founding until his death. His son-in-law, Robb Aley Allan, who is also an executive there, said it would continue its operations.
        In overseeing the design and construction of the 1,710-seat Minskoff Theater in the early 1970's, Mr. Minskoff studied other theaters with a goal of creating more pleasant backstage environments for Broadway workers. He also collaborated with the lighting designer Abe Feder on the theater's stage and offstage lighting.
        Mr. Minskoff was also involved in the development of 1350 Avenue of the Americas, a 35-floor office building; 420 East 58th Street, a 27-story condominium; and the Rolex Building, 665 Fifth Avenue.
        Myron Allen Minskoff was born in the Bronx and attended Lehigh University and Columbia University's School of Architecture.
        He was chairman of Park East Synagogue on East 68th Street from 1962 to 1972, on the board of Yeshiva University from 1965 to 1972, and was a founding board member of the Appeal of Conscience Foundation, which has sought to foster interfaith dialogue.
        He was also on the executive committee of the Broadway Association and a voting member of the League of American Theaters and Producers.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Carolyn Phillips, whom he married in 1950; and a daughter, Sara Minskoff Allan of Palm Beach.
        Describing the pleasures of putting up buildings, Mr. Minskoff said in 1981, ''It's nice to be able to come back in 20 years and say, 'Yes, I built that building.' ''
      