
        Judge Harold H. Greene, a drafter of landmark civil rights and voting rights legislation but best known for presiding over the monumental 1984 dismemberment of American Telephone and Telegraph, died yesterday at his home in Washington.
        He was 76 years old. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his son, Dr. Michael D. Greene, said. Judge Greene had undergone a series of brain operations.
        His 45-year career as government lawyer and judge -- he never set up a private practice -- helped shape profound changes in American life and earned for the soft-spoken native of Germany a reputation as having not only one of the most acute legal minds of his generation but a practical one as well.
        He strongly opposed sentencing guidelines, for example, saying they were unconstitutional because they forced judges to order jail time for defendants who did not deserve it. He also managed to impose tight administrative rein on the AT&T proceedings, which a Justice Department lawyer described as ''history's biggest case'' and which had languished for years before he inherited it.
        At the time, a presidential panel had just concluded that the government was mishandling complex antitrust cases so badly that unless ways were found to control and expedite them, corporate America might regard the law as unenforceable. His success may have emboldened those who in the 1990's brought such a case against Microsoft, the company with the nation's highest stock valuation.
        ''His management of the case was able to demonstrate that the legal system was up to the task,'' said Morgan Frankel, a clerk to Judge Greene at the time.
        A refugee from Nazi persecution of Jews that had forced his family into circuitous escape and Anne Frank-like hiding, Judge Greene arrived in the United States in early 1943. He was promptly drafted into the Army and sent back to Europe to interrogate German prisoners of war.
        Upon discharge, he breezed through two years of night school at George Washington University, working at the same time as an interpreter and translator at the Office of Alien Property, a unit of the Justice Department.
        Law school soon beckoned, though largely by default. Judge Greene, who as a teenager had learned something of the jewelry business from his father but had no interest in the field, found that he had no scientific bent, nor was he drawn, as friends had been, into the foreign service or intelligence work.
        ''Law was the alternative that came along,'' he said.
        While attending George Washington's law school, he was a clerk for former Senator Bennett Champ Clark at the Court of Appeals, and after graduation Judge Greene went to the Justice Department. His work there was dominated by civil rights issues, which had been given fresh impetus by the Kennedy administration.
        Judge Greene was soon heavily involved in drafting what became the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and he helped lobby for them in Congress. The unit he led also contributed to the department's day-to-day handling of racial confrontations.
        ''The attorney general would call at 5 o'clock in the evening and say, 'Tomorrow morning we're going to try to integrate the University of Mississippi. Get us a memo on what we're likely to do, what we can do if the governor sends the National Guard there -- and I want to have it on my desk at 8 o'clock tomorrow morning,' '' Judge Greene later recalled. ''That's the kind of thing that I did and my people did.''
        In drafting the 1964 legislation, Judge Greene and his colleagues had to choose whether to base it on the 14th Amendment, which bars discrimination, or on the commerce clause of the Constitution. Though less symbolic, the latter was chosen as better standing up to challenge.
        Subsequently, Judge Greene marveled at how quickly the new law had its intended effect, unlike the foot-dragging and outright resistance with which court decisions had typically been met.
        ''Within days, it was everybody all over the South -- restaurants, hotels, motels -- just gave up their previous opposition,'' he once observed.
        After 12 years, Judge Greene moved to the Court of General Sessions, a local court now called the Superior Court for the District of Columbia, where he brought order to a demoralized institution in near-chaos from case overload. He was also deeply engaged in planning for a new courthouse building, successfully insisting that it not contain a jail. His position was in accord with his longstanding belief that courts should not be regarded as portals to prison.
        It was this segment of his career, not the civil rights work or the telephone case, that he was most proud of, his son, Dr. Greene, said recently.
        In 1978, President Carter appointed him to the United States District Court for the District of Columbia.
        There, among the 140 to 150 cases he was immediately assigned, was the one that would transfix the telecommunications world for the better part of a decade, the antitrust case of United States v. AT&T. The government contended essentially that the telephone colossus was illegally stifling competition, using regulator-sanctioned profits from the telephone business to subsidize unregulated businesses, like making equipment.
        The government's position was not widely popular, with much of the public wondering why Washington seemed to be putting in jeopardy what was generally acknowledged to be the world's best telephone system.
        Eventually, however, though complaints are still heard, the settlement that followed an 11-month trial won acceptance.
        Without the breakup, Stanley Sporkin, a federal district judge and colleague of Judge Greene's, said recently, the United States would now probably have a ''rudimentary'' telephone system without cellular phones, caller I.D. and a host of other options, and competition that has brought long-distance rates for millions down to pennies a minute.
        He called Judge Greene's work ''one of the great decisions of all time, an important part of the technological revolution we're now in.''
        Looking back at the case in an interview for the court's oral history project, Judge Greene said his main contribution was to require the parties to submit statements of contentions and proof -- their claims and the evidence they had to support them -- that he insisted be progressively whittled down.
        The judge then forced the two sides to stipulate points of agreement, reducing to one year a trial that he said might have dragged on as long as five years. With the clock running down, the government and the company suddenly reached a settlement over the Christmas holidays and announced it in January 1982.
        Although Judge Greene was out of town and knew nothing of the proposed deal, many said he brought the company to the negotiating table because of a lengthy opinion he wrote halfway through the trial in which, responding to a motion to dismiss the case, he rejected most of AT&T's contentions.
        ''It has been said that that was responsible, at least in part, for the settlement because they felt I gave them an in as to what I would do'' should he need to make a ruling, Judge Greene recalled. ''But that wasn't my purpose. My purpose was to deal with the motions that had been filed.''
        According to his son, ''He always said he didn't know for sure'' how he would have ruled.
        After wrangling with a court in New Jersey over who should decide whether the settlement, which split AT&T into seven regional companies, was in the public interest, Judge Greene approved it subject to various conditions. The breakup of AT&T was completed on Jan. 1, 1984.
        Years later, when asked about his response to criticism of the breakup -- consumers' complaining about things like complicated bills and the need to choose from a confusing array of long-distance companies and to buy telephones that would no longer be fixed free -- Judge Greene said he was convinced the right outcome had been achieved.
        ''Most of the time I don't react at all because you cannot possibly persuade people that what they have firmly in mind is not so,'' he said. ''I am perfectly content in my own view that the breakup was a good thing. It brought competition into a field where there hadn't been any competition and that's the American way. Competition brings down price and brings up quality.
        ''It had exactly that effect. The rates, particularly long-distance rates, are way down. Even the local rates, although initially they were up, have since decreased. So far as quality is concerned, many, many things that have come in since then were not there when AT&T had a monopoly.''
        Another prominent case he handled involved John M. Poindexter, national security adviser to President Reagan, who was charged with lying to Congress about the Iran-Contra episode, in which his subordinate, Oliver North, diverted proceeds from arms sales to aid the American-supported faction in Nicaragua's civil war.
        With the defense arguing that Mr. Poindexter acted under instruction, Judge Greene ordered Mr. Reagan, by then out of office, to be a witness, the first time a president was compelled to testify on matters involving his own administration.
        In another instance, Judge Greene ruled in the landmark case Edwards v. Habib that a tenant could not be evicted for requesting enforcement of the housing code.
        Judge Greene is survived by his wife, Evelyn; his son, Dr. Greene, of McLean, Va.; a daughter, Stephanie Cavagrotti of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
        Aides and colleagues described Judge Greene as extraordinarily diligent, often volunteering to relieve the caseload of fellow judges and sometimes rising in the middle of the night to commit his views to paper. But while other judges would need to spend hours preparing written instructions to juries, Judge Greene would charge them with scarcely a note.
        ''When you went into the Greene court, you knew he was the smartest person in the room,'' Judge Sporkin said.
        Still, he suffered defeats, one of them when as an assistant attorney general he was given the rare chance to argue a case before the Supreme Court, which at the time included the venerable Felix Frankfurter.
        His task was to argue that the government had the right to appeal a motion. Judge Greene recalled decades later that the court rejected the idea 9-to-0 after Justice Frankfurter first raised his hopes by accurately summarizing his presentation, then deflated him by declaring, ''If that's your argument, there's no need to go on.''
        ''Everybody knew -- I knew -- that if it was a winnable case, the solicitor general would have argued it most likely, or people close to that seat of power,'' Judge Greene said. ''But it was still a great emotional high.''
        He also admitted to a professional disappointment because the AT&T case was settled before he could issue a final ruling. ''I felt it would have been kind of nice to write a major antitrust opinion,'' he said.
      