
        Zack Carr III, a fashion designer who became creative director at Calvin Klein Inc., died at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan on Thursday. He was 55.
        The cause was a rare cancer, according to the company.
        Mr. Carr joined Calvin Klein in 1970, a few years after it was started, and played an integral role with Mr. Klein in creating the spare, streamlined aesthetic associated with the fashion house and also in establishing the label as a global marketing force.
        ''He was Calvin's right hand,'' said Paul Wilmot, the fashion publicist, who used to work at Calvin Klein.
        Mr. Carr's colleagues found that he reminded them of the fashion editor Diana Vreeland because of his unbridled excitement about fashion and color.
        Until he became ill three years ago, Mr. Carr oversaw all of the design teams that produce Mr. Klein's men's, women's, CK and home collections. He was also instrumental in conceiving the company's well-known advertising campaigns and attracting celebrity clients like Gwyneth Paltrow to the house.
        ''Whatever one thinks about what we stand for in terms of being nontraditional, modern, clean -- that was Zack,'' Mr. Klein said Friday.
        Mr. Carr was born in Kerrville, Tex., in 1945 and was raised by an aunt and uncle after both of his parents died. He studied architecture and interior design at the University of Texas before moving to New York to attend the Parsons School of Design in 1970. It was not long after he arrived at Parsons that Mr. Klein saw Mr. Carr's sketches and asked him to work as a design assistant at his new company.
        Mr. Carr is survived by two brothers, George Carr of New York and Los Angeles, and Peter Carr of Austin, Tex.
        Until his illness left him paralyzed, Mr. Carr was never without drawing pencil and pad in his hand, Mr. Klein recalled.
        ''You were always inspired by his amazing sketches,'' Mr. Klein said. ''Today, you don't have to be a designer to be in the fashion business. You don't have to be an artist.''
      