
        Edson Mitchell, an American who became one of the most powerful executives of Deutsche Bank of Germany, died Friday in a plane crash. Mr. Mitchell, 47, who lived most of the year in London, was the sole passenger in a Beech 200 aircraft flying from Portland, Me., to his vacation home in Rangeley, Me. The pilot, Stephen A. Bean, 58, also died.
        Mr. Mitchell's death leaves a gaping hole in the bank's management ranks. Since joining the bank in 1995  as head of its global markets organization, he took it from an also-ran in trading bonds, securities and foreign currencies to a major and highly profitable player in those activities.
        In June, he and a colleague, Michael Philipp, became the first two  Americans ever appointed to the huge German bank's nine-member management board. Most Deutsche Bank insiders expected Mr. Mitchell to be named head of Deutsche Bank's entire investment banking operation -- a group that contributes nearly two-thirds of the bank's profits -- in 2002. That is when the current head, Josef Ackermann, is expected to become the bank's chief executive, upon the retirement of Rolf-Ernst Breuer, the current chief.
        Mr. Mitchell's power would have expanded long before that. The bank is involved in a sweeping reorganization, combining five businesses into two huge departments -- investment banking and distribution channels like brokerage and retail banking. A Deutsche Bank spokeswoman said that Mr. Mitchell was a major force in designing that reorganization and putting it into effect, and would have been one of the leaders of the expanded investment banking arm.
        As Mr. Breuer himself found out, though, Mr. Mitchell was as willing to fight his superiors as he was to fight for and along with his colleagues. In April, Mr. Mitchell helped to scuttle what would have been the biggest bank combination in Europe -- the $29 billion merger between Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank.
        Dresdner had a highly profitable investment banking arm that Mr.  Breuer had publicly called a ''jewel.'' But Mr. Mitchell was widely said to fear that importing that jewel, with its up-and-coming executives,  into the Deutsche Bank stable would dim some of his own group's shine. So he and Mr. Ackermann pressured Mr. Breuer to sell Dresdner's investment banking operations, instead. When Mr. Breuer finally relented, Dresdner's leadership, incensed, called off the merger just a month after it had been announced.
        Mr. Mitchell spent much of his time in New York. Colleagues say his personality -- brash, sometimes loud, almost always competitive -- fit the New York stereotype.
        But, in fact, he never lost touch with his New England roots. Born in Maine in 1953, he earned a degree in economics from Colby College in Maine in 1975 and a masters from Dartmouth in 1978. At his death, he was a trustee of Colby and an overseer of Dartmouth College. He co-founded the Rangeley Lakes Heritage Trust, an environmental organization in Maine.
        But he was always willing to travel to further his banking career. He went to Chicago for Bank of America in 1978, then moved to New York to join Merrill Lynch in 1980. In 1995,  Deutsche Bank recruited him from Merrill to invigorate its lackluster global markets operation in London.
        Soon after arriving there, he persuaded Deutsche Bank to sink millions of dollars into a huge trading floor. His operation became the nucleus for the bank's now-thriving global trading activities.
        At Merrill, Mr. Mitchell had developed a reputation as one of the firm's most hard-charging and successful executives. More than 50 of his Merrill colleagues immediately followed him to Deutsche Bank, and dozens more have joined since.
        At Deutsche Bank, Mr. Mitchell rewarded loyalty well, coercing his own management into giving his people bonuses and raises even in years when performance was lackluster. But, those who know him say he had a quick temper, and little patience for mistakes or failures. He is described by colleagues as an intense man with a wiry athletic body and a New Yorker's impatience, and a competitive nature that was as apparent on a basketball court or golf course as in a boardroom.
        Mr. Mitchell is survived by his wife, Suzan; two sons; three daughters; his parents, a brother and a sister.
      