
        Dr. Marius Berthus Jansen, an American scholar of Japanese history and culture, died on Dec. 10 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 78.
        Dr. Jansen was the author, co-author or editor of 20 books, and wrote in English and Japanese. His latest volume, summing up much of his work, ''The Making of Modern Japan,'' was published this month by the Harvard University Press.
        It chronicles the events surrounding the 1868 Meiji Restoration, which ended the shogunate and transformed Japan much as the American, French and Russian Revolutions recast the political and social structures of those countries. Though focused on that era, the book places it in a broad context from the early 17th century to the 21st, informing the reader of the forces that have shaped Japan.
        ''One of the book's virtues,'' Frank Gibney wrote in The Washington Post on the day of Dr. Jansen's death, ''is the space the author gives to cultural and social history, making this far more than a mere chronicle of leaders and politics.''
        Another book was ''The Japanese Today: Change and Continuity'' (Belknap Press of Harvard University; enl. ed., 1995). Dr. Jansen wrote it with Edwin O. Reischauer, the historian who is a former ambassador to Japan. Dr. Reischauer was one of Dr. Jansen's mentors while he was completing his Ph.D. at Harvard in 1950.
        Marius Jansen was born in the Netherlands and was brought here as an infant. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton in 1943, having majored in European history of the Renaissance and Reformation.
        He refocused on Japan while in the military in World War II. He served in Okinawa and Japan during the first year of the occupation. After he received his Ph.D., he taught at the University of Washington and moved to Princeton in 1959 as a professor of history and Oriental studies. He became first chairman of the new department of East Asian studies in 1969 and retired as professor emeritus of Japanese history in 1992.
        His other books include ''The Japanese and Sun Yat-sen'' (1954), ''Japan and China, From War to Peace: 1894-1974'' (1975), ''Japan and Its World: Two Centuries of Change'' (1981) and ''Sakamoto Ryoma and the Meiji Restoration'' (1961).
        Surviving are his wife, Margaret Jean Hamilton Jansen; a daughter, Maria Christine McGale of Garwood, N.J.; a brother, Johannes, of North Andover, Mass.; and three grandchildren.
      