
        Hobe Morrison, a longtime drama critic for Variety, died on Jan. 22. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Morrison was a fixture of opening nights on Broadway for more than four decades, often writing two reviews a day: one for the New York edition of Variety, and a second for the West Coast edition. The former would examine the play as a play, the latter its prospects as a movie.
        His approach was as straightforward as his prose, which at Variety meant short and to the point. ''It is a critic's obligation to be readable, authoritative, well informed and discriminating,'' he wrote in 1941. ''But it is also his function, I think, to recognize worthwhile plays,'' a species of art that he considered rare and precious.
        Born in Philadelphia, Mr. Morrison began his career as a reporter for The Philadelphia Record, serving as drama editor and assistant to the paper's theater critic. In 1937 he moved to New York to cover vaudeville and film for Variety, a move that led to his position as drama critic.
        He prized the job for its importance. Even so, he often attended glittery openings dressed casually in a sweater and a tweed jacket. John Chapman, a theater critic at The Daily News, once remarked that Mr. Morrison dressed for the theater like a football coach. The next week, Mr. Morrison returned fire, referring to Mr. Chapman as the ''News' critic and men's fashion editor.''
        Such jousting was common when New York supported a half-dozen newspapers and Broadway was the biggest business in entertainment. While Mr. Morrison was friendly with many actors, playwrights and  reviewers, he was far more skeptical of producers.
        He was proud of noting that he always paid his own bill when Broadway producers invited him to lunch. He also made a point of checking the box office figures supplied by productions, penalizing producers he found to be inflating figures by subtracting the extra amount from the next week's figures.
        Mr. Morrison retired from Variety in the mid-1970's.
        He is survived by two sons, Randy, of Manhattan, and Christopher, of Middletown, Conn.
      