
        Thomas George Yohe, co-creator of the quirky but durable cartoon tutorial ''Schoolhouse Rock,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Norwalk, Conn. He was 63.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said George Newall, his creative partner.
        A generation of children picked up the fundamentals of grammar and how the world works from the animated three-minute segments of ''Schoolhouse Rock,'' squeezed in among ABC's Saturday morning cartoon shows. Some 40 segments were produced from 1973 through 1985, and the series enjoyed a resurrection in the 1990's when it attained cult status on some college campuses.
        ''Schoolhouse Rock'' featured catchy tunes and words that laid out the basics of sentence structure, math, science and American history. Among the golden oldies were ''Conjunction Junction,'' ''Three Is a Magic Number'' and ''I'm Just a Bill,'' in which proposed legislation explained its travails on Capitol Hill before it might become law.
        The concept was born when Mr. Yohe (pronounced YOH-ee) and Mr. Newall were executives at the McCaffrey & McCall advertising agency in New York. A colleague asked Mr. Newall, a sometime jazz pianist, if he could set the multiplication tables to music because his son was having trouble with them in school.
        What resulted was a ditty about counting by the magic number 3, for which Mr. Yohe supplied the animation. At the time ABC, an agency client, was trying to compete against an acclaimed CBS children's series called ''In the News.''
        Michael Eisner, then the head of ABC children's programming, bought the cartoon idea at first sight, and ''Schoolhouse Rock'' was on its Emmy Award-winning way. It turned into a television icon that shared top ratings with shows like  ''The Brady Bunch'' and ''Sesame Street.''
        In the 1990's Theaterbam Chicago, a small Midwestern troupe, created ''Schoolhouse Rock Live!,'' a musical based on the series, with actors taking the parts of cartoon characters. It included 20 favorite segments and traveled to schools and libraries as well as theaters. This year the theater produced ''Schoolhouse Rock Live Too!''
        Mr. Yohe was born in Queens and graduated from Syracuse University, where he majored in fine arts. He started his career as an art director at Young & Rubicam in 1961 and moved to McCaffrey & McCall three years later. In 1984 he joined Grey Advertising, where he continued in senior creative positions until November, when he left because of his illness.
        Mr. Yohe is survived by his wife of 20 years, the former Diane Sanden Seely, and two sons and two daughters from an earlier marriage: Thomas of Brooklyn; James of Munster, Germany; Lauren of Tarrytown, N.Y.; and Suzanne Tessitore of Manhattan. Also surviving are a brother, Robert L., of Bonita Springs, Fla.; two stepsons, Colin Seely of Darien, Conn.; and Darren Seely of Grafton, Mass.; and four grandchildren.
      