
        Bishop George West Barrett, a former leader of the Episcopal Diocese of Rochester, who ordained four women as Episcopal ministers in 1975, before the Episcopal Church had approved ordaining women, died on Sunday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 92.
        The cause was renal failure after he decided to take himself off kidney dialysis, said Robert Williams, spokesman for the Episcopal Diocese of Los Angeles.
        The diocese said, in its announcement of his death, that Bishop Barrett had performed the 1975 ordination, in Washington, D.C., because he thought his church had not been progressing toward formally accepting the ordination of women after 11 other women had been similarly ordained in 1974 in Philadelphia.
        Soon after the ordination in Washington, the House of Bishops of the Episcopal Church banned Bishop Barrett from acting as a minister for a time. It also censured three other bishops who had carried out the 1974 ordination.
        But in 1976, the ordination of women was formally recognized by the Episcopal Church at its General Convention. Current estimates are that about 2,000 of the 12,000 active members of the church's clergy are women, as are six of its bishops and three of its suffragan bishops.
        One of the 11 women ordained in Philadelphia in 1974, the Rev. Suzanne R. Hiatt, a retired professor at the Episcopal Divinity School in Cambridge, Mass., said that the 1975 ordination had been ''critically important,'' because it established that such ordinations would continue until the church acted.
        One of the four women whom Bishop Barrett ordained, the Rev. Lee McGee, a former professor at Yale Divinity School, said the 1975 ordination had been ''absolutely pivotal in moving the leadership of the Episcopal Church to change its canon law'' to permit ordaining women, and that ''this was borne out in the rapid action of the church in 1976.''
        But the leader of the Diocese of Central Pennsylvania, Bishop Michael W. Creighton, said: ''My hunch is that it did not in a sense force the ordination of women in the Episcopal Church. I think that was going to happen anyway. It was moving in that direction.''
        Dean George L. W. Werner, the president of the House of Deputies of the Episcopal Church, which is one of the two houses of its legislature, said that Bishop Barrett was an early voice in talking about the ordination of women, as early as the 1960's, and that it was his ''role as a constant advocate that really helped move the church toward the decision,'' more than the ordinations themselves.
        Bishop Barrett was born in Iowa City and grew up mainly in Pasadena, Calif. The degrees he received included bachelor's degrees from the University of California at Los Angeles and from the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, Mass. He held a variety of church posts before becoming bishop of Rochester in 1963.
        At his death, he was bishop in residence at Trinity Church in Santa Barbara. He was an assisting bishop in the Diocese of Los Angeles for most of the three decades since his ministry in Rochester ended in 1970.
        His marriage to Emma Dee Hanford in 1936 ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Bettina Tvede Barrett, whom he married in 1970; a daughter, Myra Barrett of Minnesota; a son, Richard, of Montana; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      