
        Ronald G. Pisano, a curator, art historian and collector and an authority on the work of the 19th-century American painter William Merritt Chase, died on Dec. 11 in Manhattan. He was 51 and had homes in New York City and Southampton, N.Y.
        He died of esophageal cancer, said Fred Baker, his companion of more than 30 years, with whom he formed the Baker-Pisano Collection of American Art.
        Mr. Pisano, who was born in New York City, grew up in Huntington, N.Y., and graduated cum laude from Adelphi University. The museums and artistic heritage of the eastern half of Long Island became the focus of his career. While doing graduate work at the University of Delaware, Mr. Pisano wrote a dissertation on the students of Chase, who lived in Southampton and established an art school there in the late 1880's. In 1973 the dissertation was published as a catalog for an exhibition that he organized at the Parrish Art Museum in Southampton.
        From 1973 to 1977 Mr. Pisano was curator of American art at the Heckscher Museum of Art in Huntington. From 1978 to 1982, he was director of the Parrish, where he organized ''William Merritt Chase: In the Company of Friends'' in 1979 and founded the William Merritt Chase Archives. He published several other books and exhibition catalogs on the artist and was completing a catalogue raisonne of Chase's work at the time of his death.
        After leaving the Parrish, Mr. Pisano worked as a curatorial consultant and independent curator, organizing exhibitions there and at the Art Students League, the Heckscher and the Long Island Museum of American Art, History and Carriages, formerly known as the Museums at Stony Brook.
        His other books included ''The Long Island Landscape: 1820-1920'' and ''The Tile Club and the Aesthetic Movement in America,'' published by Harry N. Abrams in conjunction with an exhibition at the Long Island Museum last year.
        With Mr. Baker, Mr. Pisano began collecting 19th- and early-20th-century American painting in 1973; over the years they gave more than 40 works to the Heckscher Museum.
        In addition to Mr. Baker, Mr. Pisano is survived by his parents, Robert and Mildred Pisano of Powhatan, Va.; three brothers, Robert, of Las Vegas, Roy, of Centerport, N.Y., and Russell, of Port Jefferson, N.Y.; three sisters, Barbara and Terri, of Richmond, Va., and Tina, of Powhatan; and his maternal grandmother, Mary Jane Ostrander Kates of Mount Vernon, N.Y.
      