
        Sir Stanley Matthews, a legendary figure in British soccer who played professionally until he was 50 years old and was the first pro soccer player to be knighted, died yesterday at a hospital in Newcastle-Under-Lyme, England. He was 85.
        In a career that spanned more than three decades, Sir Stanley was one of soccer's premier players, renowned as the Wizard of Dribble for his playmaking skills. He was also known as the First Gentleman of Soccer, having never received a warning from a referee or been expelled from a game for rough play.
        Playing outside right, Sir Stanley was the first Englishman to be named European Footballer of the Year, achieving the honor twice. His signature game was the 1953 Football Association Cup final when, at age 38, he set up the last three goals, enabling Blackpool to defeat the Bolton Wanderers, 4-3, before a crowd of 100,000 and Queen Elizabeth II at Wembley Stadium in London. That game, bringing Blackpool its first title, became known as ''the Matthews final.''
        When he retired in 1965, having played 33 seasons, he had made some 700 league appearances, for Stoke City and Blackpool, and had played in more than 50 games for England in international matches.
        Prime Minister Tony Blair paid tribute to Sir Stanley yesterday as a ''model sportsman.'''
        Stanley Matthews, the son of a longtime professional featherweight boxer, Jack Matthews, was born near Stoke-on-Trent and joined the Stoke City team while a teenager. He became a full-time professional in 1932.
        Sir Stanley played his last international match in 1957, against Scotland, and that year was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire. He was knighted in 1965.
        Sir Stanley received a formal send-off at Stoke City's grounds on April 28, 1965, when he led a team of British stars that faced many of Europe's great players of the previous decade in a matchup serving as a tribute to him. He displayed some of his old skills, but his team lost by 6-4.
        The thinly built Sir Stanley, 5 feet 9 inches and 157 pounds, was a superb stylist, known for his extraordinary balance, passing skills and bursts of speed. He was a master of moving the ball past opposing players after one his feints had left them sprawled on the grass.
        ''It's a matter of timing,'' he once said. ''You can never plan your moves before the game.''
        During workouts, Sir Stanley concentrated on 20-yard sprints, explaining how ''when a situation develops, the player who is quickest off the mark has the best chance of getting the ball.''
        His reputation for sportsmanship suffered a mild setback during a game in the 1950's, when he was playing for Blackpool against the Wolverhampton Wanderers, who were known for their rough play. One Wolves player sought to humiliate Sir Stanley by pulling his shirt out of his pants. After being tugged a few times, Sir Stanley pushed the player away. The referee saw the push but missed the shirt-pulling and awarded a free kick to the Wolves.
        Recounting the incident, William R. Conklin wrote in The New York Times how ''in terms of rarity, this penalty against Matthews could be compared to Sir Winston Churchill's slaking his thirst with water.''
        After a spotless playing career, Sir Stanley ran into trouble with English soccer authorities in 1968 while managing Port Vale, a Fourth Division team. Sir Stanley and other club officials were found to have paid unauthorized signing-on fees to new players and bonuses to the team for winning matches. Port Vale was expelled from the English League.
        Sir Stanley moved to Malta in 1968, managing a local soccer team, and later lived in Canada before returning to the Stoke area in the late 1980's. His wife died last year. There was no report on immediate survivors.
        The news of Sir Stanley's death came before a friendly match between England and Argentina at Wembley. A moment's silence was observed and the players wore black armbands.
        ''He was one of the greatest players the game has even seen,'' said Bobby Robson, a former manager of the English team. ''He ranks alongside players like Pele, Maradona and Cruyff -- and he was one of ours.''
      