
        Maj. Gen. Kenneth D. Nichols, an Army engineer who supervised the construction of the plants that produced the nuclear fuel for the first atomic bombs, died on Monday at a retirement home in Bethesda, Md. He was 92.
        In 1942, General Nichols, who also helped establish the nation's early military and civilian nuclear policies, joined the Manhattan Project, the group assigned by President Franklin D. Roosevelt to build an atomic bomb.
        He began on the project as a lieutenant colonel and a deputy district engineer but quickly became district engineer and a full colonel. Later, he was promoted to brigadier general, reporting directly to Gen. Leslie R. Groves, who was in charge of the  project.
        General Nichols oversaw a civilian and military work force of about 125,000 and was largely responsible for the construction of the nuclear sites in Oak Ridge, Tenn., and Hanford, Wash. He was also responsible for intelligence and security operations that kept the development of the atomic bomb secret.
        After World War II, General Nichols stayed with the Manhattan Project, which was taken over by the Atomic Energy Commission in 1947. The next year, after briefly teaching at West Point, where he had taught earlier, he was promoted to major general and became chief of the Armed Forces Special Weapons Project, responsible for atomic weapons logistics and training.
        He was also appointed deputy director for the Atomic Energy Matters, Plans and Operations Division of the Army's general staff, and was the senior Army member of the military liaison committee that worked with the Atomic Energy Commission.
        In 1950, General Nichols became deputy director of the guided missiles division of the Department of Defense. He was appointed chief of research and development when the Army reorganized in January 1952.
        In 1953, he became the general manager of the Atomic Energy Commission, where he promoted the construction of nuclear power plants and was a liaison with the military.
        He left the commission in 1955 and became a consultant for many corporations.
        Kenneth David Nichols was born on Nov. 13, 1907, in Cleveland. He graduated from the United States Military Academy and was stationed in Nicaragua, where he surveyed a proposed route for a canal from the Pacific to the Caribbean.
        General Nichols later received a master's degree in engineering from Cornell University, then became the assistant director of the United States Waterways Experiment Station in Vicksburg, Miss. The station worked on flood control on the Mississippi River.
        From 1934 to 1935, General Nichols studied in Berlin, on a fellowship from the Institute of International Education. He received a Ph.D. from Iowa State University.
        Then he taught at West Point and was an area engineer in charge of the construction of the Rome Air Depot in Rome, N.Y., and the Pennsylvania Ordnance Works at Williamsport, Pa.
        General Nichols was awarded the  Distinguished Service Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster and the United States Atomic Energy Commission Distinguished Service Award.
        His personal account of how the nation's nuclear policies were developed, ''The Road to Trinity,'' was published in 1987 by the William Morrow Company.
        Survivors include his wife, Jacqueline; a son, K. David Nichols Jr. of Olympia, Wash.; a daughter, Jacqueline Thompson of Bethesda, Md., and four grandchildren.
      