
        Elliot A. Caplin, a writer who worked in deep obscurity to produce the plot lines for scores of cartoon strips, died on Sunday at his home in Stockbridge, Mass. He was 86.
        One of his most successful efforts was ''Heart of Juliet Jones,'' in which Mr. Caplin cooperated with the artist Stan Drake. The strip was intended to represent high-quality competition to ''Mary Worth,'' the leading soap opera strip of the time. At its peak, ''Juliet Jones'' ran in 600 papers.
        He was the brother of the ''L'il Abner'' cartoonist Al Capp, and their family name was more flexible than one might ordinarily expect. The brothers' grandfather was named Cowper, but when he opened a dry goods store in New Haven in the 1880's, he wanted to attract a Jewish clientele, so he changed his name to Caplan. Then he changed the final ''a'' to ''i'' to add ''a fillip of difference,'' Mr. Caplin said in a 1987 interview.
        Alfred Gerald Caplin became Al Capp in 1934 because a features syndicate felt the original would not fit in a cartoon frame. Some of his other brothers and sisters followed suit. Al Capp died in 1979.
        Mr. Caplin's expertise was writing the continuing script for cartoon strips. An artist would then draw the pictures. He did not collaborate with Mr. Capp on ''Li'l Abner'' or any strips produced by his brother (who was both writer and artist for that strip).
        Mr. Caplin's creations include 1950's standards like ''Dr. Bobbs,'' and ''Big Ben Bolt.'' His brother conceived two strips that he passed on to him. One of them, ''Abbie an' Slats,'' with the pictures of Raeburn van Buren, lasted 23 successful years. The other was ''Long Sam,'' which used the artist Bob Lubbers.
        Mr. Caplin received little personal publicity because he wrote for so many feature syndicates. Most were not eager to promote someone who also worked for competitors, his son,  Donald, said. But the World Encyclopedia of Comics said the volume of Mr. Caplin's work was immense.
        Mr. Caplin was born in New Haven on Dec. 25, 1913. In a 1987 interview with The New York Times, he characterized his father, Otto, as nonsupportive, declining to pay Mr. Capp's tuition at a succession of art schools or Mr. Caplin's tuition at Brown University.
        After leaving Brown Mr. Caplin attended Ohio State University, where he was captain of the tennis team. He worked for the American Jewish Committee and was an editor at Parents magazine. In World War II he was injured while serving aboard a minesweeper in the Pacific and was awarded a Purple Heart. He had to use a cane after the injury.
        After the war, Mr. Caplin, his father, Otto, and his brother Jerome banded together to form a publishing company. They began with a monthly comic book of ''Li'l Abner'' and soon expanded to other comics and  publications like ''Why,'' which offered psychological advice to readers.
        Mr. Caplin had one book published, ''Al Capp Remembered,'' and wrote many plays, including ''Any Resemblance to Persons Living or Dead,'' which was produced off Broadway in 1971.
        In addition to his son, of Waltham, Mass., he is survived by two daughters, Joan Caplin of Manhattan and Toby Caplin of Waltham; a brother, Jerome Bence Capp of Manhattan; a sister, Madeline Capp Gardner of Manhattan; five grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
      