
        Nat Adderley, a jazz cornetist and trumpeter who was a frequent collaborator with his brother, the saxophonist Cannonball Adderley, and a composer whose style popularized a melodic, bluesy, secular gospel-jazz, died on Sunday at a hospice in Lakeland, Fla. He was 68 and lived in Lakeland.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said Fred Stuart, his publicist.
        Mr. Adderley was born in Tampa, Fla., and began his career playing with bands in Florida. In 1950 he changed from trumpet to cornet, and during the early 50's he played with a military band in the Army. In 1954 he joined Lionel Hampton's group, and in 1956 he became part of the Adderley Brothers quintet started by his brother.
        That group disbanded in 1957 and  the brothers reunited in the Cannonball Adderley Quintet before the end of the decade. With Cannonball Adderley's buoyant, linear style and Nat Adderley's more dynamic sound, the quintet became one of the longest-running groups in postwar jazz, remaining active until Cannonball Adderley died in 1975 and making a series of hard-hitting records.  Three of the most popular songs in its repertory, which all became  standards, were written by Nat Adderley: ''The Work Song,'' ''Jive Samba'' and ''Hummin'.''
        Mr. Adderley, who had also appeared as a sideman on other records by musicians including Kenny Clarke, Wynton Kelly and Jimmy Heath, started his own band shortly after his brother's death, modeled on the music they played together. The alto saxophonist Vincent Herring often played the Cannonball Adderley role in the band. The group recorded for Enja, Landmark and other labels, and performed widely for about 20 years, until Mr. Adderley lost a leg because of diabetes in 1997.
        Nat Adderley's band was one of the more stable groups in jazz: the bassist Walter Booker remained with him for most of two decades and the pianist Rob Bargad played with him through the 1990's. Outside his group, Mr. Adderley also collaborated with his brother on a musical about the folk hero John Henry. It was released as an album, performed as a concert at Carnegie Hall in 1976, and then as a full theatrical production called ''Shout Up a Morning'' at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington and the La Jolla Playhouse in California in 1986.
        Mr. Adderley is survived by his wife, Ann; a son, Nat Adderley Jr. of West Orange, N.J.; a daughter, Alison Pittman of Palm Bay, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
      