
        T.H. Watkins, a historian of the American West, a magazine editor and a prolific writer on environmental issues, died on Wednesday at his home in Bozeman, Mont. He was 63.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Joan Parker Watkins.
        Since leaving his last editorial post, at Wilderness magazine in Washington three years ago, Mr. Watkins, a protege of the novelist and conservationist Wallace Stegner, had been teaching at Montana State University in Bozeman, where he occupied an endowed chair in the American studies department that was named for Stegner.
        Mr. Watkins was known as a realistic if wishful writer and thinker who, from his 15 years in Washington, came to understand the workings of environmental lobbying and legislating without ever becoming active in politics. He is perhaps best known for ''Righteous Pilgrim,'' a 1990 biography of Harold L. Ickes, the crusading secretary of the interior for Franklin Delano Roosevelt, which was a National Book Award finalist.
        In a review in The New York Times, Herbert Mitgang called the book ''an outstanding biography that is also a major work of social history spanning the first half of the century.'' In telling the story of Ickes, a man who doubled the acreage of America's national parks and helped include black Americans under the umbrella of the New Deal, Mr. Mitgang wrote, ''T. H. Watkins shows how the ideas of an old-fashioned Midwestern reformer meshed perfectly with the liberal programs of a Hudson Valley patrician, Franklin D. Roosevelt.''
        His most recent book, ''The Hungry Years: A Narrative History of the Great Depression'' (1999), about the effect of the Depression on rural America, received respectful if not overwhelmingly positive reviews.
        Over all he published 28 books and hundreds of articles. As a writer on the environment he earned the reputation, like Stegner and Edward Abbey, of one who accepted the might and spiritual tug of nature as factual rather than dreamy and who consequently sought to convey those qualities with literary force but without sentimentality.
        ''We must learn, finally, that wilderness is not, as our history has insisted, a threat to be conquered but in fact a lesson to be embraced,'' he wrote in ''Stone Time,'' a 1994 book about southern Utah, a region of high desert and forbidding canyons he particularly loved. A second book about the area, ''Redrock Chronicles: Saving Wild Utah,'' is to be published in the next few weeks.
        ''Utah was his thing,'' said his wife, adding that friends are planning to descend a deep gorge in the southwestern part of the state ''and sprinkle him into the Dirty Devil River.''
        Thomas Henry Watkins was born in 1936 in Loma Linda, Calif., and was raised on the edge of the Mojave desert in San Bernardino. The eldest of six children, he was the only one who went to college. His father, Thomas F. Watkins, now 83 and living in Yucaipa, Calif., bundled the papers at a newspaper printing company.
        His son became an outdoorsman because the family went camping all over southern California, he said. But asked how his son became interested in writing, the elder Mr. Watkins said: ''I just can't imagine. Maybe from his mother. She was a hell of a reader.''
        In any case, working beside his father bundling papers, Mr. Watkins put himself through college, first at San Bernardino Valley College, where he also played football, and later at Redlands University. After graduating he moved to San Francisco, where he worked in the mail room at The San Francisco Chronicle while he tried to write novels and for a while attended graduate history classes at San Francisco State.
        Eventually he went to work for American West magazine, where he met Stegner, then the editor. In 1966 Stegner named Mr. Watkins managing editor; he became editor three years later. His first published books were about San Francisco's history and architecture.
        In 1976 Mr. Watkins moved to New York, where he spent six years as an editor at American Heritage. In 1982 he was named editor of Wilderness, a quarterly magazine of the Wilderness Society, the environmental activist group. He led the magazine for 15 years, enlisting writers like Stegner, Wendell Berry and Terry Tempest Williams and establishing, in the words of the current editor, Ben Beech, ''a literary quality rare among interest group magazines.''
        In 1997, a year after the magazine cut back to one issue annually, he accepted the professorship, his first teaching job, at Montana State.
        In addition to his wife and his father, he is survived by two children from a previous marriage, a son, Kevin, of Beaverton, Ore., and a daughter, Lisa Pless of Pinole, Calif.; three brothers, Steven, of Yucaipa; David, of San Bernardino; and James of Pioneertown, Calif.; two sisters, Sallee Safford of Hesperia, Calif., and Leni R. Barnett of West Plains, Mo.; and four grandchildren.
      