
        Henry Jernigan Tobler, a gallery director, collector and writer who specialized in contemporary art and folk art, died on Friday at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. He was 34 and lived in New York until June, when he moved to Houston for treatment.
        The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Julia Joern, director of publicity at Phaidon Press in New York.
        Mr. Tobler, who was called Jay, was born in Richmond, Va. He began scouring flea markets and junk shops for folk art while still in high school. He earned a B. A. from Yale University in 1989, majoring in the history of art and writing his senior thesis on African-American folk art, a project that enabled him to travel throughout the South, visiting folk artists and folk art environments.
        After an internship at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, he became attracted to contemporary art and took a position at the Barbara Gladstone Gallery in SoHo, where he worked closely with the artists Matthew Barney, Jenny Holzer and Vito Acconci. He left Gladstone when he became ill in 1993 but returned as director in 1994, remaining until 1997. He then worked as a freelance writer and curator, operating on the premise that folk art should not be separated from the mainstream of art, both historic and contemporary.
        Mr. Tobler was the primary editor of the American Art Book, a reference book published by Phaidon in 1999 that spans three centuries of American art and includes many folk artists. His most recent project was an exhibition on the work of James Castle, a recently discovered 20th-century folk artist, which is to open Friday at the Drawing Room at the Drawing Center in SoHo.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Tobler is survived by his mother, Pattie, of Richmond; his father, Henry III, of Elkton, Va.; two sisters, Anna, of Manhattan, and Mary, of Brooklyn; and a grandmother, Helen, of Harrisonburg, Va.
        Correction:  February 29, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about Henry Jernigan Tobler, a gallery director, art collector and writer, misstated his age and the year his leukemia was diagnosed. He was 33, not 34; he became ill in 1994, not 1993.
        The obituary also misspelled the given name of his surviving grandmother. She is Helene Tobler, not Helen.
      