
        Joseph Wolfson, an aquatic Peter Pan who was one of the first surfboarders to master complex maneuvers on the smaller ''body board'' in the 1970's, died in a car crash on a Los Angeles freeway last Monday. He was 50.
        Wolfson became a legend known as Dr. 360 for his ability to spin completely around while riding a big wave. He won national and international contests in both the body board and bodysurfing. He was the perennial California surfer, a free and flamboyant spirit who moved to Beach Boys rhythms and had teenage girlfriends even as his flowing beard turned gray.
        But in the last two years of his life, he struggled with the realization that there were no endless summers. His cancer worsening, he attempted suicide on Nov. 11, 1998, by tethering his board to a buoy at a beach near his Manhattan Beach apartment. He was found unconscious, his body temperature only 81 degrees after a night in the 59-degree water.
        At first, he was disappointed to be alive, but he then received letters of support from the 33 surfing students who had helped rescue him. He said he realized that he had been a bad example to the youths and vowed to set a different example by continuing to live.
        ''It was the worst message in the world I could send them,'' he said in a front-page article in The Los Angeles Times, part of a giant crest of publicity that washed over his story.
        His attempted suicide and its aftermath were featured on ''20/20,'' ''Prime Time Live'' and many California television programs. NBC bought the rights to his life story for a possible movie, tentatively titled ''Full Circle.''
        His death came when his car veered off the Marina Freeway, jumping an embankment and slamming into a eucalyptus tree; it is being investigated by the California Highway Patrol and the Los Angeles County coroner's office because of his suicidal history. Evidence seems to point both ways: he wore a seat belt, but did not brake, according to one witness.
        ''He has been so tired lately and so worn out and stressed out,'' said John Featherstone, his roommate and the football coach at El Camino College.
        Born in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn on July 11, 1949, Wolfson moved with his parents and two sisters to north Long Beach in 1956. His father, a linoleum installer and union activist, loved the beach and took his children there frequently. ''We all fell in love with the beach,'' his sister Paula said.
        Wolfson graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles, where he was a history major. He went to work for the city of Carson in 1968 as a recreation manager for the parks department and worked there for the rest of his life. He never moved from the one-bedroom efficiency apartment in Manhattan Beach he had had since his U.C.L.A. days.
        ''Joe is the unofficial beach bum of the world,'' Richard Schraier, who worked with Wolfson in theater projects in the late 1970's, told The Los Angeles Times in 1989. ''He lives by the beach and is ruled by the beach.''
        The defining moment in his life came in 1973 when a woman lent him a new kind of surfboard. It was made of a Styrofoam-like material and was about three feet long, compared with traditional surfboards, which are made of fiberglass and can be as long as nine feet. The boards were originally used by children very close to shore.
        The first time he used one, Wolfson immediately ''pearled,'' a surfing term for a nose-diving wipeout. The crowd on the beach laughed, but  Wolfson was hooked for life. He still continued to bodysurf, which is letting waves hurl one's body shoreward like a torpedo. He never liked larger, traditional surfboards, finding them unwieldy.
        Kevin Cody, editor and publisher of Easy Reader, a Hermosa Beach newspaper, said Wolfson was one of the founders of the sport of body-boarding, which was at first regarded as more like sitting on a sled than like skiing.
        He perfected the art of spinning on a board while riding a big wave, something Mr. Cody said nobody had done before him. Unlike other body-boarders who performed the difficult maneuver lying down, Wolfson did it sitting up.
        He won many competitions in the 1970's, as body-board surfing began to take off as a sport. But because most contestants were far younger, he gradually stopped competing. He continued to teach body-boarding and organize tournaments for others.
        He cultivated his surfer image even as most people his age drifted away from the beach scene. His longevity on the sand was helped by his never drinking or smoking; he stayed in good enough shape to surf for 10 hours straight.
        He screamed ''Yahoo!'' as he surfed, had ''Dr. 360'' license plates and paid for extravagant ''surprise'' birthday parties for himself. ''Kids identify with me,'' he said in the 1989 interview. ''Here's a responsible adult who wants to remain a kid.''
        He began having lung problems in February 1998 and was initially treated for asthma and had sinus surgery. By October, the diagnosis had changed to lung cancer. After coughing up blood, he headed for the beach on the starry night of Nov. 11. He screamed and rode wave after wave, spinning wildly in his own signature style.
        Then he tied himself to the buoy. Though he wanted to die, he did not want to drift into deeper water and be eaten by sharks. The next morning, he was discovered unconscious, still on his board, by a friend who was teaching the surfing class from a nearby middle school.
        It was the letters of these children that changed his attitude. One wrote: ''If you can ride a 20-foot wave, you can ride this.''
        In addition to his sister Paula, who lives in Arlington, Va., Wolfson is survived by another sister, Ellen of Portland, Ore.; his father, Harry of Portland; and his mother, Rhoda of Napa, Calif.
        He said he never married because family responsibilities might take up time he could otherwise spend surfing. ''He was married to the ocean,'' Paula said.
        Wolfson once said that ''one day the only thing that will be left of me is a pair of shoes in the sand.'' This afternoon, family, friends and local children plan to paddle into the breaking surf of Manhattan Beach and scatter his ashes.
      