
        Robert John Milano, a self-made millionaire industrialist who briefly served Mayor Edward I. Koch as deputy mayor for economic development, died Saturday at a hospital in Palm Springs, Fla., where he lived. A former New York resident, he was 87.
        In January 1978, a newly minted Mayor Koch introduced him as a Horatio Alger he had recruited to head the office that the mayor said would produce the city's salvation.  Ten weeks later, the two men announced their parting at separate news conferences.
        Both said Mr. Milano had not been dismissed, but the circumstances left little doubt that the mayor had asked for his resignation. Coming but 74 days into the Koch administration, his was the first casualty in the mayor's cabinet.
        He certainly did not need the $1-a-year compensation he was to be paid. At the time, he was selling a business he had started from scratch to the Gulf Oil Company for $16 million.
        A native of the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood on Manhattan's West Side, Robert Milano was born on June 14, 1912. He attended the High School of Commerce and studied business administration and financial law in evening sessions at City College. In 1930, he went to work as a bookkeeper for E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company.
        After scraping together extra cash by selling insurance and holding a part-time accountant's job, he started his own venture selling chemicals in 1936 at the age of 24. It prospered even through his four-year Army service in World War II and, by 1975, evolved into Kewanee Industries, a conglomerate with sales of about $500 million a year.
        By the 70's, his business activities were slowing, and Mr. Milano devoted his energies to a role as the businessman in civic and governmental groups. Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller appointed him in 1971 to the Scott Commission, which the governor created to investigate the city's fiscal policies.
        Serving on that panel and on a State Charter Study Commission for New York City gave him enough experience with the workings of the municipal government to enable Mr. Koch to draw on his talent.
        He helped expand the New School for Social Research into the present New School University. He joined the New School's board in 1976, served as vice chairman and remained a trustee at his death. In 1995, the university named its Graduate School of Management and Urban Policy for Mr. Milano.
        Mr. Milano's survivors include his wife of 61 years, Sidonia Friedsam Milano; their son, Robert S., of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
      