
        Lee Hills, who began a journalism career as a teenage reporter covering mining disasters in Utah, continued it as an editor by bringing Pulitzer Prizes and national renown to The Miami Herald and The Detroit Free Press, and finally spread the gospel of quality journalism around the country as chief executive of the Knight Ridder newspaper group, died Thursday in Miami. He was 93.
        He earned a law degree by the age of 29 while moving through newspapers in Oklahoma, Indiana, Ohio and Tennessee, and later became well versed in the financial side of the business, but Mr. Hills never strayed far from the newsroom.
        Even as editor of The Free Press, he could not resist the lure of reporting -- a predilection that won him a Pulitzer Prize in 1955 for coverage of labor negotiations between the United Automobile Workers and the automakers. He later revealed that no less a figure than Henry Ford II had been a crucial source.
        Five years later, as editor of The Miami Herald, he directed the newspaper's coverage of mob bosses living in the area, a series called ''Know Your Neighbor,'' which won that newspaper its first Pulitzer Prize.
        Most of all, according to journalists who knew him, Mr. Hills saw probing, objective journalism as a calling and a public service. Mr. Hills -- an employee and friend of the late John S. Knight, who, with his brother James, owned the Knight newspaper group -- had sought to make the sharp, the curious, the critical and the crusading professionals around him adopt his standards of fairness, objectivity and excellence.
        ''He knew full well the kind of journalism he had come into, a journalism of faction and interests and parochialism and provincialism, and of a brawling independence as well,'' said Hodding Carter, speaking of the 1920's and 1930's -- when Mr. Hills covered everything from lynchings to the crime career of Charles (Pretty Boy) Floyd.
        ''But,'' Mr. Carter continued, ''he believed so strongly in the implications of a free press that he became one of the guys who helped to guide us into the period in which the adoption of standards and the notion of a semi-profession, with real connection to principle, and with the idea that the news came first and public interest came first.''
        Mr. Carter, who is president of the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation, added: ''He came up wanting above all else to be a good newspaperman, a good journalist. He became, in effect, the prime minister for Jack Knight as he created a newspaper organization that was solidly successful economically and held to the old values in journalism throughout.''
        Mr. Hills was born in Egg Creek Township, near Granville, N.D., in 1906. The family moved to Utah after his mother's death in 1911. It was in that state that he took his first job at a newspaper, sweeping floors at The Price News Advocate.
        He received his college education at Brigham Young University and the University of Missouri. While working as a reporter and editorial writer at The Oklahoma City Times, which he joined in 1929, he earned a law degree. He later worked for that newspaper's competitor, The Oklahoma News, a Scripps-Howard newspaper, before introducing himself to John Knight in 1942.
        According to the obituary in The Detroit Free Press yesterday, Mr. Hills, looking for a new job, asked to meet with Mr. Knight, who, with his brother, owned The Akron Beacon-Journal, The Detroit Free Press and The Miami Herald. Mr. Knight agreed to take him on as a news editor at The Herald. He soon became managing editor.
        When the government rationed newsprint at the height of the war, Mr. Hills persuaded Mr. Knight to cut back on advertising to allow full space for war coverage.
        Some of the reporting he made room for was his own, as he served briefly as a war correspondent for The Herald, and filed reports from the Far East, the Middle East and Latin America -- an area of the world that fascinated him. At The Herald, he supported extensive coverage of Latin America.
        Even as the head of professional groups, he found a way to get back to his reporting roots. In 1962, touring the Soviet Union with 12 editors -- at the time he was president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors -- he got nationwide attention, reporting an interview with the Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev.
        As John Knight's chief lieutenant, Mr. Hills served for the better part of  three decades -- from 1951 to 1979 -- as executive editor or publisher of both The Herald and The Free Press.
        Alvah Chapman, who, like Mr. Hills, served as a chief executive of Knight Ridder, said yesterday: ''Lee, of course, was both a business operator and a journalist. He was responsible for the business success as well as the editorial success of The Detroit Free Press. But he was best known for editorial skills and news skills.''
        Mr. Hills and Mr. Chapman, at Mr. Knight's behest, arranged the 1974 merger of Knight Newspapers Inc. with Ridder Publications Inc., producing a newspaper group that boasted a greater circulation than any of its rivals -- until the rapid growth of USA Today put the Gannett Company into the lead.
        Mr. Hills was the first chairman and chief executive of the merged newspaper group. He retired as editorial chairman in 1981.
        Mr. Hills was also an active philanthropist in both Detroit and Miami. Mr. Carter credits Mr. Hills with persuading the Knight brothers to set up the Knight Foundation with gifts amounting to more than $400 million. He also served as president of the Inter-American Press Association -- through which he met his third wife, Tina Ramos Hills.
        Mr. Hills is survived by his wife and by Ronald Hills of Saratoga, Calif., his son with his first wife, Leona Hass, whom he divorced in 1944. His second wife, Eileen Whitman Hills, whom he married in 1948, died in 1961. He is also survived by two sisters, Louise Elwood, of Seattle, and BeverLee Margolis, of Mercer Island, Wash.; a brother, Stanley Hills, of Mercer Island; two grandsons and three great-grandsons.
        Allen H. Neuharth, a colleague of Mr. Hills at The Herald and later, as founder of USA Today, a competitor, said yesterday: ''Among journalists, he was a reporter who never stopped being a reporter, even though he went on to be an executive and a publisher. But he retained his reporter's instincts and sensibility, and that motivated everything he did in his newspaper decisions.''
      