
        Anthony Blum, a principal dancer with the New York City Ballet in the 1960's and 70's, died on Dec. 28 at the Wesley Health Center in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was 61 and lived in Saratoga Springs.
        The cause was complications from AIDS, said Patrick Lavin, a friend.
        Tall and craggy-faced, Mr. Blum was a dancer of casual nobility. Writing in The New York Times, Clive Barnes described Mr. Blum as having ''a style you could recognize on a darkened stage, a loose and loping style, with a technique always just as good as it needs to be and never any better (Mr. Blum is no vulgar overachiever) and who dances like a poet, a characteristically American poet at that.''
        Born in Mobile, Ala., Mr. Blum trained with Aubrey Hitchens and at the City Ballet-affiliated School of American Ballet.
        He performed on television and on Broadway.
        He joined City Ballet in 1958 and was promoted to principal dancer in 1966.
        A quick learner, he soon found himself cast in roles that ranged from leads in George Balanchine's modernist classics and in Merce Cunningham's ''Summerspace'' to character parts like the cigar-chomping husband in Jerome Robbins's ''Concert'' and Hot Chocolate in Balanchine's staging of ''The Nutcracker.''
        Mr. Blum originated roles in ''Tchaikovsky Suite No. 3,'' ''Don Quixote'' and several other Balanchine ballets; in Robbins's ''Dances at a Gathering'' and ''Goldberg Variations''; and in works by John Clifford, Jacques d'Amboise and Francisco Moncion.
        On his retirement from City Ballet and the stage, Mr. Blum moved into a cottage in Saratoga Springs that he had bought and remodeled, wryly naming it ''Dying Limbs.'' He became a collector of antique ''things that have a look, but that I won't have to worry about because their value comes from my liking them,'' he said in a 1977 interview. He specialized in 19th-century American pottery and bronze.
        He also worked as a designer with the Lily and the Rose, a catering service in Saratoga Springs.
        He is survived by a brother, John, of Mobile.
      