
        Herbert I. Schiller, a teacher, writer and critic who studied the subject of communication, died on Jan. 29 in La Jolla, Calif. He was 80 and a longtime La Jolla resident.
        The cause of death was not disclosed.
        Dr. Schiller was trained as an economist, began studying the media in the 1960's and was a professor of communication at the University of California, San Diego, from 1970 until he retired in 1990.
        ''He gave shape and texture to the modern study of communication and culture in America,'' said Neil Postman, a professor of media ecology at New York University, where Dr. Schiller taught frequently in his last years.
        One of the targets in his books was television. In ''Culture, Inc.: The Corporate Takeover of Public Expression'' (Oxford University Press, 1989), he asserted that commercial television represented ''the daily ideological instruction of the viewers.''
        In 1991, the New York Times television critic John J. O'Connor said the television series ''Beverly Hills 90210'' with its emphasis on fashion  was a ''perfect illustration'' of Dr. Schiller's point.
        Dr. Schiller's last book, finished recently, is ''Living in the Number One Country: Reflections From a Critic of American Empire.'' It is to be published by Seven Stories Press this year.
        A native New Yorker, he grew up in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School and received a bachelor's degree in 1940 from City College of New York, a master's degree in 1941 from Columbia and, after serving in the Army during World War II, his doctorate in 1960 from New York University.
        He lectured at City College and was a government economist, a professor of economics at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn and a research professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana before moving to the University of California, San Diego.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Anita L. Rosenbaum; two sons, Dan of Del Mar, Calif., and Zach of Cleveland, and two grandchildren.
      