
        Philip Jones, a leading British trumpeter and a music educator, died on Jan. 17. He was 71 and lived in London and Switzerland.
        Mr. Jones was born in Bath, England, into a family of brass musicians. He began playing the trumpet as a boy, and in 1944 he won a scholarship to the Royal College of Music. At 20 he was appointed fourth trumpet in the Covent Garden orchestra, rising to principal the next year.
        He was then, remarkably, principal trumpet with most of the other major London orchestras in succession: the Royal Philharmonic (1956-60), the Philharmonia (1960-64), the Philharmonic (1964-65), the New Philharmonia (1965-67) and the BBC Symphony (1967-71). During his career he played under most of the great conductors, from Erich Kleiber to Pierre Boulez.
        During these years he was also performing regularly with a group he had founded in 1951, the quintet known as the Philip Jones Brass Ensemble, to which he was able to give his full attention after 1971. The ensemble played Baroque music, especially pieces by Giovanni Gabrieli and Johann Pezel, and as the early-music revival grew in the 1960's and 70's the group was much in demand for performances of choral music by Monteverdi and others. But the ensemble also commissioned works from composers like Hans Werner Henze, Richard Rodney Bennett and Toru Takemitsu.
        As a soloist, too, Mr. Jones lent his brilliance and beauty of tone to new music, like Iain Hamilton's ''Circus'' for two trumpets and orchestra (1969), written for him and his colleague, Elgar Howarth.
        In 1986 he retired from playing and devoted his energies to what had been a secondary career, teaching. Two years later he was appointed principal of Trinity College of Music, London, an institution that was then in the doldrums. He invigorated it to a point where it could reclaim equal status with the Royal Academy of Music and the Royal College. He retired in 1994 and the next year took on the chairmanship of the Musicians Benevolent Fund, the leading British musical charity.
        He is survived by his wife, Ursula.
      