
        Marshall C. England, who left a job as a schoolteacher in the racially segregated South of the 1950's and eventually became an influential advocate for the poor and working class of New York City, died on Jan. 22 in Manhattan. He was 67.
        He died at Bellevue Hospital Center of complications from a recent stroke, said his companion, Judy Wessler.
        Mr. England, a familiar figure among Manhattan community advocates, was known for his command of health care issues affecting the poor, as well as his turtleneck sweater, khaki pants and two always-present grocery bags bulging with government reports, legal pads and budget analyses.
        ''I have never known anyone who knew more about the minutiae of health care,'' said the Rev. Diane Lacey Winley, a Presbyterian minister on the Upper West Side and a board member of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation who had known Mr. England for more than 20 years.
        Mr. England's most recent victory was one of his most notable, Ms. Winley said. Last March, New York State's highest court decisively ruled against the Giuliani administration's efforts to privatize New York City's public hospitals, specifically a plan to lease Coney Island Hospital to a private company. Mr. England had helped prompt the litigation as well as to organize public demonstrations against the plan, which he contended would hurt the poor.
        Perennially late for appointments because passers-by would seek his advice, Mr. England alarmed friends when he was invited to Istanbul several years ago for an international conference on homelessness. True to form, he was still in the process of getting his passport two hours before his flight and left for Turkey without luggage.
        Marshall Cleveland England was born on Oct. 27, 1932, in Thomasville, Ala., the son of the Rev. L. T. England and Daisy England, a schoolteacher.  After getting a degree from Alabama A.& M., Mr. England taught and was the football coach at an all-black middle school in Linden, Ala. In the late 1950's, he went north to Chicago, where he worked in construction, and later to New York, where he was a youth counselor to gang members.
        Something about the counseling experience kindled a fierce commitment to expanding opportunities for the poor in employment and health care. Mr. England helped found and was executive director of the League of Autonomous Bronx Organizations for Renewal, or Labor, a private community-action agency in the South Bronx.
        While heading Labor much of his career, he also volunteered as a senior official in a dizzying number of organizations from the 1960's until his death, including the Congress of Racial Equality; the antipoverty agency Haryou-Act, or Harlem Youth-Associated Community Teams; the Harlem Alliance for Comprehensive Health Planning; the Coalition for Health Care Services; and the Commission on the Public's Health System.
        Mr. England is survived by two sisters, Rose Cameron of Tuscaloosa, Ala., and Jean Clayton of Thomasville.
      