
        Edgar Bowers, a poet whose luminous, finely wrought prose earned him the Bollingen Prize, died on Friday at his home in San Francisco. He was 75.
        The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, said a friend, Helen P. Trimpi of Palo Alto, Calif.
        Mr. Bowers was awarded the Bollingen Prize in Poetry, among the genre's foremost awards, by Yale University in 1989. The $10,000 prize, whose recipients have included Ezra Pound, Wallace Stevens and Marianne Moore, is awarded every two years to one or more living American poets for the best collection published during that period or for a body of poetry. In selecting Mr. Bowers, the judges cited his 1973 work, ''Living Together: New and Selected Poems,'' saying that it ''cemented Mr. Bowers's reputation as a poet of enduring work.''
        Mr. Bowers wrote five collections of poetry, including ''For Louis Pasteur'' (1990), ''The Astronomers'' (1965) and ''The Form of Loss'' (1956).
        Unlike many writers of his generation, Mr. Bowers was a formalist, writing in metered verse. The rhymed verse of his earlier work evolved into the blank verse for which he was heralded.
        Mr. Bowers was born in Rome, Ga. His schooling was interrupted by World War II, when he served in the Counter Intelligence Corps. After his discharge in 1946 Mr. Bowers returned to the University of North Carolina. He earned a doctorate in English at Stanford University, where he studied with the poet and critic Yvor Winters.
        After dabbling in experimental prose, he turned, under the tutelage of Winters, to formal verse and at 32 published his first poetry collection, ''The Form of Loss.'' That book, Winters said, included works that numbered ''among the best American poems of this century, and 9 or 10 of them among the very great poems.''
        Donald Justice, a poet who won the Pulitzer and Bollingen Prizes and who was a student with Mr. Bowers, said yesterday: ''No one could continue to live up to that for the next 40 years, but Edgar did. I think he was a very good poet and somewhat neglected in large part because he did write formally, and that's against the grain of contemporary poetry.''
        Mr. Bowers described ''Autumn Shade,'' from ''The Astronomers,'' as his ''breakthrough blank-verse effort.'' It solidified his reputation as perhaps the most accomplished blank-verse writer in the second half of the 20th century with such passages as:
        My shadow moves, until, at noon, I stand
        Within its seal, as in the finished past.
        But in the place where effect and cause are joined,
        In the warmth or cold of my remembering,
        Of love, of partial freedom, the time to be
        Trembles and glitters again in windy light.
        For nothing is disposed. The slow soft wind
        Tilting the blood-root keeps its gentle edge.
        The intimate cry, both sinister and tender,
        Once heard, is heard confined in its reserve.
        My image of myself, apart, informed
        By many deaths, resists me, and I stay
        Almost as I have been, intact, aware,
        Alive, though proud and cautious, even afraid.
        Mr. Bowers published his last book, ''Collected Poems,'' in 1997. The critic Harold Bloom called it ''an amazing achievement, one of those rare collected volumes that when you go from beginning to end the poetry improves on each successive page.''
        Mr. Bowers was awarded two Guggenheim fellowships, as well as the Harriet Monroe Poetry Prize, given by Poetry magazine, in 1989. He taught English at the University of California, Santa Barbara, for most of his professional career.
        His companion, James Davis of Los Angeles, died on Thursday.
        An ill Mr. Bowers wrote his final poem two years ago, ''The Poet Orders His Tomb.'' In it he says:
        I see myself unnoticed on the stair
        That underneath a clear
        Welcome of bells, had promised me a fair
        Attentive hearing's joy, sometime, somewhere.
        Correction:  February 9, 2000, Wednesday  An obituary of the poet Edgar Bowers yesterday referred incorrectly at one point to the work for which he received the Bollingen Prize from Yale in 1989. It was poetry, not prose.
      