
        Jack Scott, a prominent critic of organized athletics during the 1960's and early 1970's who later gained national attention when he was suspected of helping Patricia Hearst elude capture in the Symbionese Liberation Army case, died Sunday night in Eugene, Ore. He was 57.
        He had been suffering from throat cancer.
        Mr. Scott was the captain of his city championship high school football team in Scranton, Pa., in the late 1950's and a sprinter at Stanford University. But he became disenchanted with the sports world, voicing his views in books, as an athletic administrator and through a sports institute. He spoke out against authoritarian coaches, excessive commercialization in sports and the use of performance-enhancing drugs, and he called for greater inclusion of women and members of minorities in sports programs and for giving both college and professional athletes a voice in team management.
        Mr. Scott, who graduated from Syracuse University in 1966 and held a doctorate in sociology from the University of California, took aim at authoritarian coaches in his first book, the privately published ''Athletics for Athletes.''
        ''Lombardi and other over-authoritarian coaches have proved that heavy discipline can produce winners,'' he once said. ''But it is also possible to learn and develop in a more free and creative atmosphere.''
        In 1970, Mr. Scott launched his Institute for the Study of Sport and Society, which he ran out of an office above his apartment in Oakland, Calif., its newsletter giving a voice to disaffected athletes and coaches.
        After expressing criticism of Bear Bryant, the Alabama football coach, Mr. Scott drew enmity from Vice President Spiro T. Agnew, who in a speech before the Birmingham Touchdown Club in 1972 called Mr. Scott an enemy of sport, a ''permacritic'' and a ''guru from Berkeley.''
        Mr. Scott put his views into action when he served as athletic director at Oberlin College in Ohio from 1972 to 1974. He appointed three black coaches, including Tommie Smith, the sprinter who gained notoriety for his raised, gloved fist on the victory stand at the 1968 Mexico City Olympics, and he provided an enhanced role for women in Oberlin athletics.
        In August 1975, Mr. Scott was in the public eye on a far larger stage.
        Miss Hearst, the granddaughter of the publisher William Randolph Hearst, had been kidnapped by the revolutionary Symbionese Liberation Army in February 1974, when she was a 19-year-old college student. She later joined her captors in various crimes, and in the summer of 1975 was the object of a nationwide search. A federal grand jury in Harrisburg, Pa., was seeking to determine whether Mr. Scott had a role in harboring Miss Hearst, but he declined to testify, alleging governmental misconduct.
        Miss Hearst was arrested in San Francisco in September 1975 and was convicted of armed bank robbery in March 1976. At her trial, she testified that she met Mr. Scott at an apartment in Berkeley or Oakland after a gunfight with the police in Los Angeles in May 1974 had killed six members of the Symbionese Liberation Army. Miss Hearst said Mr. Scott and several other family members drove her east in the summer of 1974. She said that Mr. Scott and she then drove alone to Las Vegas, where he left her.
        Mr. Scott later admitted to having sheltered Miss Hearst, but no criminal charges were filed. In 1984, Mr. Scott received $30,000 in settlement of a libel suit against Miss Hearst in which he contended that in her book ''Every Secret Thing'' she falsely linked him to terrorist groups.
        Mr. Scott's death came while his videotaped testimony was being sought by defense lawyers for Sara Jane Olson, who is to go on trial in Los Angeles on charges that she planted pipe bombs under two police cars in that city in 1975.
        Mr. Scott later worked with world-class track athletes as a physiotherapist, specializing in the use of electric stimulation to heal injuries. He helped Joan Benoit Samuelson recover from injuries and win the first Olympic women's marathon in 1984 and treated the track stars Carl Lewis and Jackie Joyner-Kersee.
        He is survived by his wife, Micki; his son, Jonah; and his daughters, Lydia and Emma.
      