
        Doug Henning, the ebullient, shaggy-headed magician who sparked a renewed interest in the craft and breathed new life into some of history's most famous illusions, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 52 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was liver cancer, according to The Associated Press. He had been ailing for five months.
        With a curly mane of hair and a near-constant grin, Mr. Henning was one of the most famous illusionists in the world during the 1970's and early 80's, appearing in three Broadway shows and a dozen television specials. In each case, he stunned audiences with a seemingly impossible array of disappearing assistants and levitating ladies. Doves became rabbits in Mr. Henning's hands, and horses took wing.
        One of his most impressive acts was ''Metamorphosis,'' an illusion  borrowed from Harry Houdini, his idol. In the trick, which Mr. Henning performed in Broadway theaters, on television and even on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, his assistant was handcuffed and tied in a sack. The sack was put in a chest and padlocked. Mr. Henning stood atop the chest and counted to three. Suddenly the assistant was standing in his place, and Mr. Henning was in the trunk, handcuffed.
        It was a trick Houdini needed 20 seconds to perform; Mr. Henning did it in less than 10.
        A native of Winnipeg, Canada, Mr. Henning made his American debut in ''The Magic Show,'' a rock musical that opened on Broadway in May 1974 and subsequently ran for more than four years.
        In 1975, Mr. Henning broke through to an even larger audience when he performed Houdini's ''Water Torture Escape'' on a live television special. Shackled hand and foot and encased underwater in a steel canister, he broke free in under a minute, emerging wet and beaming.
        Over the next decade, he was a regular presence on television, adding splashy new tricks to his repertoire, like a 1980 show where he appeared to have been eaten by a shark.
        His shows led to a general resurgence of interest in magic, said Phil Willmarth, editor of The Linking Ring, a magic magazine. ''He was a kind of Peter Pan,'' Mr. Willmarth told The Associated Press, ''who led magic away from the tuxedo approach.''
        Indeed, part of Mr. Henning's popularity could be laid to his style of performing, one that immediately set him apart from the vaudevillian conjurers of the past. Gone were the black capes and magic wands; Mr. Henning wore jeans, flashy jumpsuits, and tie-dye T-shirts onstage. Steeped in the pop philosophies of the 1960's, Mr. Henning meditated daily and did yoga between shows.
        ''When I was in college, being a magician was not the classiest thing to be,'' he said. ''It was like being a folk singer before Bob Dylan.''
        As a student at McMaster College in Hamilton, Ontario, Mr. Henning studied psychology but planned all along to pursue magic as a career. (His senior thesis was on hypnosis.)
        He got his first professional job at 14, performing at a family friend's house. He later put an advertisement in a local newspaper reading: ''Magician: Have Rabbit, Will Travel.''
        After his success with ''The Magic Show'' and on television, Mr. Henning returned to Broadway twice, in the 1983 musical ''Merlin,'' and in a 1984 solo show, ''Doug Henning and His World of Magic.''
        In each show, his illusions became increasingly complex. In ''Merlin,'' for example, Mr. Henning created the image of a flying horseman disappearing into thin air and his co-star Chita Rivera being turned to stone. As happened with ''The Magic Show,'' the musical portion of the show received poor marks while Mr. Henning's ingenuity was hailed.
        In the mid-1980's, Mr. Henning retired from the stage and became increasingly interested in transcendental meditation.
        In 1992, he announced that he and the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, a spiritual adviser, would build a $1.5 billion theme park near Niagara Falls, Ontario. Dubbed Veda Land, it would be the first theme park concerned with spiritual enlightenment and would include a levitating building and a journey into the heart of a rose. The project's status is uncertain.
        Despite his absence from the scene, the monthly Magic Magazine reported last July that Mr. Henning had been sighted at several magic stores around the country. He posed for photographs, signed autographs and then disappeared once again.
        He is survived by his wife and former assistant, Debby.
      