
        David Alfred Boehm, a publishing entrepreneur who brought the Guinness Book of World Records to the United States and gave the book its name, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86.
        The short, cherubic man with the immaculate goatee published thousands of titles at the company he founded, Sterling Publishing Company, but his road to fame began with  his discovery in 1956 of a pile of books languishing unsold on the shelves of a Boston warehouse.
        Mr. Boehm raced to London and snapped up the licensing rights to what was then called the Guinness Book of Superlatives, paying no money down, only a percentage of whatever books he could sell. His son Lincoln, now president of Sterling, said that one of his own first jobs was ripping off the book jackets of 10,000 books in order to change the name to the Guinness Book of World Records.
        ''He figured 'superlative' was a word nobody would understand,'' Lincoln Boehm explained.
        The older Mr. Boehm also Americanized the book by adding baseball records, a not insignificant addition in a tome founded by the Guinness Brewery in 1951 to settle barroom arguments. In no time at all, he was selling hundreds of thousands of books and licensing the name to everything from museums to paper cups. Soon Sterling and Guinness were divvying up $1.7 million a year.
        His success was so dramatic that more people knew the name Guinness as a book than as a creamy stout. The result was a series of legal fights in the 1980's, culminating in Guinness's buying back the license for $8 million in 1989. A federal judge described Guinness's attempt to discredit Mr. Boehm's license as ''blatantly unreasonable cupidity.''
        But Mr. Boehm had a ball with the book while he had it. He was regularly featured on the Guinness Book of World Records television show with David Frost as a judge of arcane world records. He disqualified the man who caught a grape in his mouth from 270 feet away on the grounds that it was not a widely practiced event. For various reasons, he also nixed the fellow who somehow fit 150 clothespins on his nose. The man who ate a bicycle fared no better.
        Sometimes the disputes involved deeper research, like the time he discovered the world's oldest man wasn't. It happened in 1979 when he found the marriage certificate for Charlie Smith, who had claimed to be 136. He was a mere 104.
        ''He blew it when he got married when he was 35,'' Mr. Boehm said.
        Sterling's offices on Park Avenue South were regularly crowded with extremely fat, tall, short and peculiarly talented folks. They included Morris Katz, who held the record for painting more paintings than anybody else. Mr. Boehm seized the opportunity to kill two birds with one stone by publishing his book, ''Paint Fast and Loose.''
        In a 1980 article in The New York Times, N. R. Kleinfield suggested that Mr. Boehm himself had a decidedly impish look about him, suggesting he might be about to set a record for ''balancing the most corn cobs on his head or devouring the most crayons during a solar eclipse.''
        He was born in Manhattan on Feb. 6, the same date he died. He graduated in 1934 from Columbia, where he majored in sociology and edited The Columbia Spectator. He then worked for a string of publishing companies, mastering the skills of editing, production and sales.
        In 1949 he founded Sterling. The business was created in a phone booth in the Hotel Pennsylvania in Manhattan where Mr. Boehm would go at 5 p.m. to take calls out of  earshot of his employer. He told the story at the company's 50th anniversary last year.
        Sterling's first book was Stampography, the first of thousands of how-to books it would publish. Mr. Boehm wrote dozens of books, including a popular series of 64-page geography texts from which students were encouraged to cut out pictures for school reports. He would personally visit all the countries. ''It also made for a tax deduction, of course,'' his son said. Sterling expanded overseas, with sales between $50 million and $100 million, the younger Mr. Boehm said. It currently has more than 3,000 titles in print.
        Mr. Boehm, who lived for years in a Madison Avenue penthouse, married either five or six times, his son said. In addition to his son Lincoln he  is survived by his wife, Nijole; three daughters, Suzanne Farwell of Seattle, Diana Kerman of Portland, Ore., and Emily Partin of Mayapur, India; another son, David L.; seven grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
        As record-keeper for the planet, Mr. Boehm was often well poised to pick up on emerging trends. For one thing, he noticed goldfish getting progressively smaller, making eating a record number of them less of an accomplishment. ''The goldfish got down to the size of caviar,'' he said in explaining why the Guinness Book of World Records dropped competitive goldfish consumption.
      