
        Frederic Lord, a mathematician whose doctoral work at Princeton a half-century ago laid the foundation for scoring the fill-in-the-bubble examinations that have tormented generations of No. 2-pencil-wielding applicants to colleges and graduate schools, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Naples, Fla. He was 87, and had lived in Naples since 1993.
        Dr. Lord joined the fledgling Educational Testing Service, the developer of the College Board exams, in March 1949 as director of statistical analysis. He stayed for 33 years.
        Dr. Lord did not write test questions. What he did, first as a graduate student at Princeton and later at the testing service, was devise a trailblazing mathematical model that enabled test writers to categorize particular questions, based on their difficulty. Among the ripples from his research were formulas that have allowed the testing service to compare student performance on a range of questions on multiple versions of the SAT in one year.
        In seeking to explain the magnitude of Dr. Lord's ideas, which came to be known as Item Response Theory, Martha Stocking, a principal research scientist at the testing service  since 1967, used a staple of the College Board exams: an analogy.
        ''Imagine in the 1900's or earlier building cars,'' Ms. Stocking said. ''One approach would be to take a horse-drawn cart and put an engine on it. Another approach would be, in the privacy of your own workshop, to build a scale model of a car and then when you get the perfect car in the scale model, then scale it up to a real-car size.
        ''Building statistical models is just like this. You take a real situation with real data, messy as that is, and build a model that works to explain the behavior of real data.''
        In addition to the College Board exams, Dr. Lord's models would influence the Graduate Record exam, the Test of English as a Foreign Language, the Graduate Management Admissions Test and the Law School Admissions Test.
        That his life's work would have such an impact on higher education was almost written in his genes.
        Frederic Mather Lord was born on Nov. 12, 1912, in Hanover, N.H. His father, Frederick Pomeroy Lord, was a professor of anatomy at the Dartmouth Medical School. His great-great grandfather, Nathan Lord, was Dartmouth College's sixth president, serving from 1828 to 1863. His mother, Jeanette, was a suffragette.
        Dr. Lord started on his career in  science as a boy. He set off an explosion in his family's basement when a chemistry experiment went awry, sparing him but, as he recalled, damaging the house, said his second wife, the former Muriel Kendall, whom he married in 1983.
        Dr. Lord graduated from Dartmouth in 1936, with a bachelor's degree in sociology. What followed was a period of some aimlessness, in which he moved to the Midwest to explore a career as a novelist. But he ultimately landed at the University of Minnesota, where he earned a master's degree in educational psychology and where his interest in test theory was ignited.
        In 1944, he joined the graduate record office of the Carnegie Foundation, a precursor to the testing service, first as a research assistant and later as its assistant director. In 1951, having moved to the testing service, he earned a doctorate in psychology from Princeton. His dissertation would come to be regarded as a major work by psychometricians, or students of testing theory.
        Dr. Lord was the author or a contributor to more than 100 books or  papers. In 1958, he expanded his dissertation into the book ''Statistical Theories of Mental Test Scores,'' written with Melvin R. Novick, which was regarded as another milestone in test theory.
        Dr. Lord's first marriage, which ended in divorce in 1973, produced three sons, Steven, who died in 1961; John, of Palmetto, Fla., and Eric, of Langhorne, Pa. He is also survived by three step-children, Conrad M. Bessemer and Robert H. Bessemer of Pittsburgh, and Diane Carnegie Osborne of Seattle.
        Though Dr. Lord officially retired from the testing service in 1982, his work there continued until 1985, when an automobile in which he was riding in South Africa was struck by a bus. After his prospects for recovery were all but ruled out, Dr. Lord emerged from a coma after 21 days, his wife said.
        He spent much of his later years  tending his beloved orchids and playing bridge. He was a bridge life master.
        Dr. Lord's wife said that his mind remained keen into his final days, despite his being tethered to an oxygen tank, a result of emphysema and congestive heart failure.
        ''We played bridge,'' Mrs. Lord recalled of one of their last visits. ''He was almost annoyed with me. I made a bid. He didn't think I was using the rules properly.''
      