
        Ion Gheorghe Maurer, who was prime minister, foreign minister and titular head of state of independent-minded Communist Romania from the 1950's to the 1970's, died Tuesday in Bucharest, the Romanian capital, where he lived. He was 97.
        Mr. Maurer, whose name is pronounced yon gay-OR-gay MAO-rer, came from a middle-class background, was trained as a lawyer, and became a longtime Communist and a member of the Romanian Politburo.
        Mr. Maurer, who had joined the then-illegal Communist Party in 1936, was elected prime minister in 1961 by Romania's Grand National Assembly and held the post until 1974. As prime minister he was the country's second-ranking Communist, after the party leader, Nicolae Ceausescu.
        Both men sought the greatest possible freedom of action inside the Soviet bloc. That sometimes led to disagreements with the Soviets.
        As prime minister, and earlier, Mr. Maurer was closely involved in forming his country's foreign policy. He also repeatedly sought to play a conciliatory role in the ideological rift between the Soviet Union and China, which grew more and more acerbic beginning in the early 1960's.
        In 1974, the official Romanian press agency, Agerpres, reported that he asked to be released from the premiership for reasons of age -- he was 71 -- and health. He had been badly hurt when his jeep flipped during a hunting trip in 1970. When he was 75, he withdrew from politics without saying why.
        Mr. Maurer had a brief stint as his country's appointed foreign minister in 1957 and 1958. Then, early in 1958, he was elected chairman of the presidium of the Grand National Assembly. He held that post, and was ex officio head of state, until 1961.
        He was a teacher's son, a native of Bucharest and partly of German descent. After receiving his law degree from the University of Bucharest, he did legal work for years for Mr. Ceausescu and other Communists and also for banks. He spent time in jail because of his Communist views, but after Romania acquired a Communist-led coalition government in 1945 and was proclaimed a Communist people's republic in 1947, he rose to hold various party and government posts before becoming foreign minister.
        An early marriage ended in divorce. His second wife, the former Elena Stanescu, died last year.
        He is survived by a son, Jan, and a daughter.
      