
        Wilfred Cantwell Smith, a scholar of Islam and comparative religions who took an early lead in urging intellectual understanding of religious pluralism and dialogue among faiths, died on Monday in a hospital in Toronto. He was 83 and lived in Toronto.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Brian Cantwell Smith, of Bloomington, Ind.
        A native of Toronto who twice held professorships at Harvard University, Professor Smith had a career that crossed cultural and religious boundaries in a life that reflected the encounter of different faiths.
        While teaching at a Christian college in British-ruled India in the 1940's, he researched his first book, a study of Islam in that region, and  was ordained a Presbyterian minister. He supported the cause of Indian independence, but hoped that the future nation would embrace both Hindu and Muslim populations, rather than be partitioned as it was into India and Pakistan.
        Wilfred Cantwell Smith was born July 21, 1916, a son of Victor Arnold Smith and Sarah Cory Cantwell Smith. He developed an interest in Islam while traveling through Europe and the Middle East at 17, with his mother, a professor of classics. In Cairo, he began learning Arabic.
        When he returned to Canada, he enrolled in the University of Toronto, where he met his future wife, Muriel MacKenzie Struthers. After graduation, the couple moved to Cambridge, England, where he continued his studies, then to Lahore, in what is now Pakistan, where he taught and his wife completed a medical degree.
        In 1949, after receiving a doctorate in Islamic studies from Princeton University, he was hired by McGill University in Montreal, where he established its Institute of Islamic Studies, recruiting a faculty of Muslim and non-Muslim scholars, an unusual endeavor at that time.
        His sensitivity to religious and cultural currents in the Middle East was reflected in his second book, ''Islam in Modern History'' (Princeton, 1957), in which he said Muslims would regain a sense of regional self-confidence when they felt there was a revival of their faith.
        In December 1979, The New York Times invited Professor Smith to join other scholars for a discussion on the Iranian revolution. He said that there was a belief among Muslims in the Middle East that an era of backwardness was ending and that the change had to entail a rejection of Western influence.
        He said Americans, upset by the takeover of their embassy in Tehran, should understand that young Iranians had felt victimized by Western support for the government of the Shah, overthrown by the revolutionaries.
        ''What is it that we have done amiss in the past few months, 15 years, three centuries, that gives rise to this explosion?'' he asked. ''Partly, Western imperialism.''
        In the 1960's, Professor Smith began moving into comparative religious studies, a transition marked by publication of ''The Meaning and End of Religion'' (Macmillan, 1963). John L. Esposito, a theologian who is the director of the Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding at Georgetown University, said Professor Smith argued in the book that the Western belief that religion is a private matter is a recent concept, a product of the Enlightenment.
        Professor Smith wrote that two centuries ago the word ''religion'' -- meaning Christianity, Judaism, Islam or another faith -- ''broadly meant a way of life,'' Professor Esposito said. ''It's still a pioneering concept when you look at debates over fundamentalism and the role of religion and politics.''
        In 1964, Professor Smith moved to Harvard as director of the Center for the Study of World Religions. Although he returned to Canada in 1973 to set up a department of comparative religion at Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia, he came back to Harvard five years later to head a new program in religious studies in the university's faculty of arts and sciences.
        After retiring in 1984, he was appointed a senior research associate on the faculty of divinity at Trinity College at the University of Toronto. Last month, he was made an officer in the Order of Canada, the country's highest honor.
        John B. Carman, a professor of divinity and comparative religion at the Harvard Divinity School, said Professor Smith ''felt you had to create institutions and you had to have real live people passing through those institutions and their lives would be shaped by doctoral requirements.''
        While on his second tour at Harvard, Professor Smith completed a book on religious pluralism, ''Towards a World Theology'' (Westminster, 1981), in which he argued it was possible to discern historical and metaphysical connections among the major religious faiths.
        ''That becomes a real basis for dialogue'' among scholars of different faiths, said William A. Graham, professor of the history of religion and Islamic studies at Harvard and chairman of its department of Near Eastern languages and civilizations.
        ''He was much more concerned with trying to forge intellectual corridors of interchange, whereby very serious people in their own communities could understand very serious people in other communities,'' said Professor Graham, who studied under Professor Smith in the 60's.
        Professor Carman said that despite Professor Smith's interest in developing ''a theology of the human race'' he was rooted in his Canadian Protestantism. ''There was a kind of old-fashioned conservatism about his style,'' Professor Carman said. ''In a very basic sense, saying your prayers was important.''
        In addition to his wife and son, Professor Smith is survived by four other children in Canada, Arnold Smith of Ottawa, Julian Smith of Appleton, Heather Branch of Toronto and Rosemary Mountain of Montreal, and 10 grandchildren.
      