
        George McTurnan Kahin, an authority on Southeast Asia who was an influential critic of Washington's policy during the Vietnam War, died on Saturday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. He was 82 and lived in Ithaca, N.Y.
        Dr. Kahin (pronounced KAY-hin) retired in 1988 after 37 years on the faculty of Cornell University, where he was a professor of government and international studies. He was executive director of the Cornell South East Asia Program from 1951 to 1960.
        ''He was one of the real pioneers in the field of Southeast Asian studies,'' said Douglas Pike, director of research at the Vietnam Center at Texas Tech University. ''He wasn't an ideologue in the sense that some of the so-called historians we have today are.''
        Dr. Kahin's book ''The United States in Vietnam'', which he wrote with John W. Lewis, another Cornell professor, ''was one of the most influential books in the late 1960's'' in turning people in the academic world against the American involvement in Vietnam, said Frederick Z. Brown, associate director of Southeast Asia studies at the Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University.
        Mr. Brown, a former State Department expert on Indochina, said Dr. Kahin's view of Washington's Vietnam policy was that it was, as Mr. Brown put it, ''the wrong war in the wrong place at the wrong time.'' The book, which came out while the war was raging, ''was written as a textbook and therefore was written in a style that was understandable, not too esoteric,'' Mr. Brown added. ''And it had a big readership.''
        In their book, Dr. Kahin and his co-author contended, ''The more deeply one probes into the history of the U.S. involvement in Vietnam, the more evident it becomes that a seriously distorted picture has been presented.''
        ''Vietnam is a single nation, not two,'' the co-authors argued, and ''South Vietnam constitutes an artificial creation whose existence depends on the sustained application of American power.''
        The Nation called the book ''the most lucid and fully documented study'' of the United States' involvement in the war that had yet appeared. In a review of the work in The New York Times Book Review, David Halberstam, the author of ''The Making of a Quagmire'' (McGraw-Hill, 1965), praised it but said he was made uneasy by its ''blanket declaration that the second Indochina war is simply an indigenous rebellion against the repressions of Ngo Dinh Diem,'' South Vietnam's prime minister from 1954 to 1963.
        Earlier, Dr. Kahin figured prominently as one of the critics of the United States's Vietnam policy who took part in a 15-hour ''national teach-in,'' on May 15, 1965, in Washington that was broadcast on television and radio. Speaking of the American involvement in Vietnam, he said: ''The trouble is that it's an artificial situation, and it's one that can't be shored up militarily.''
        In a 1966 declaration, he urged the Johnson administration to make ''clear-cut and unequivocal pronouncements'' of its willingness to have a negotiated settlement of the war.
        Dr. Kahin, whose doctorate was in political science from Johns Hopkins, spurred the growth of Southeast Asian studies.
        ''George attracted the very best students from all over the world, and they in turn became scholars in Southeast Asian studies and started programs worldwide,'' the director of Southeast Asia program at Cornell, Thak Chaloemtiarana, said.
        But Mr. Pike said undergraduate work and, particularly, graduate work in Southeast Asia and in international relations in general had attracted fewer students in the United States after the end of the Vietnam War.
        Dr. Kahin's interest in Southeast Asia began while he was in the Army in World War II. He was among a group of a few dozen soldiers who were to parachute into the Japanese-occupied Netherlands East Indies, which is now Indonesia. He learned to speak Indonesian and Dutch while he was being trained for that mission, but it was called off, and he went on to serve in the Netherlands and Germany.
        His many writings included book reviews and Op-Ed articles for The New York Times. The George McT. Kahin Center for Advanced Research on Southeast Asia at Cornell was named in his honor in 1992. He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Born in Baltimore, Dr. Kahin grew up in Seattle, received a bachelor's degree in 1940 from Harvard University , a master's in 1946 from Stanford University and his doctorate in 1951.
        His marriage to Margaret Baker in 1942 ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife of 32 years, the former Audrey Richey, who was the co-author of one of his books; a son, Brian, of Washington; a daughter, Sharon Kahin of Cody, Wyo.; a sister, Peggy Webb of Berkeley, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      