
        George Koltanowski, an international chess master and author who excelled at beating opponents without looking at the board, died Feb. 5 in a hospital in San Francisco. He was 96.
        Mr. Koltanowski, known as Kolti, won several chess titles in Europe in the 1920's and 30's but was best known for his skill at blindfold chess, in which a player never looks at the board but makes his moves after being told of his opponent's.
        He sometimes used a blindfold for stage effect and often played against more than one nonblindfolded opponent at the same time. In 1937, he defeated 34 players simultaneously without looking at any of the boards, setting a world record. In 1960, he set another world record by defeating 56 opponents simultaneously while blindfolded.
        Mr. Koltanowski attributed his skill at blindfold chess to memory games he played as a boy and to what he called ''the gramophone'' in his head. ''I record everything I hear,'' he told The San Francisco Chronicle, where he was chess columnist for the last 52 years. ''I repeat the moves to myself, and they come back to me, like in football -- an instant replay.''
        Mr. Koltanowski was born in Antwerp on Sept. 17, 1903. He took up chess at the age of 14 and quickly became the champion of Belgium. He was so good, he gave up his day job as a diamond cutter to become a full-time professional chess player.
        He was in Guatemala when World War II broke out and he remained in Latin America through much of the war. In 1944, he moved to the United States, with the aid of a chess-loving American diplomat who had seen him play in Cuba.
        In 1948, he began writing a chess column for The Chronicle, and a column appeared seven days a week until his death; the more than 19,000 columns were often done in advance, a week's worth at a time.
        He was made an international master by the International Chess Federation in 1950 and an honorary grandmaster in 1988. He was president of the United States Chess Federation from 1976 to 1978 and was inducted into its Hall of Fame in 1986. He was the host of radio and television shows on chess and wrote several books on the game.
        Mr. Koltanowski is survived by his wife, Leah, who never learned to play chess and often joked that her husband could not remember to bring bread home from the grocery.
      