
        Tom Landry, the taciturn Texan who coached the Dallas Cowboys for their first 29 seasons and led them to five Super Bowls, died last night in Dallas. He was 75.
        Landry died at Baylor University Medical Center, where since May he had periodically undergone treatment for acute myelogenous leukemia, a hospital spokeswoman said.
        Landry was head coach of the Cowboys from the team's inception in 1960 through 1988, and he created a stir in the National Football League with innovative schemes and his team's success. After six mediocre seasons, including an initial 0-11-1 year when the team played before  small crowds at the cavernous Cotton Bowl, Landry's Cowboys ran off 20 consecutive winning seasons, an N.F.L. record. During that span, Dallas won 13 division titles, made 18 playoff appearances and won two Super Bowls in five appearances.
        Wearing his trademark fedora and conservative suit, Landry was the cool, stoic man on the sideline for the franchise that under his leadership became known as America's Team.
        Landry's 270 victories are the third most in N.F.L. history behind Don Shula and George Halas. His overall record as the Cowboys' head coach was 270 victories, 178 losses and 6 ties for a .601 winning percentage. Landry entered the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1990.
        But despite his overall success in Dallas, Landry's last three seasons there produced records of 7-9, 7-8 and 3-13. The team was bought in February 1989 by its current owner, Jerry Jones, and Landry was dismissed.
        Landry's contributions to pro football were significant. As a player-coach and then as an assistant coach for the Giants in the 1950's, Landry devised the 4-3 defense, a formation featuring four down linemen and three linebackers. It remains a staple of pro football. Landry's defensive units, featuring Roosevelt Grier, Andy Robustelli, Dick Modzelewski and Jim Katcavage on the line, Sam Huff as the middle linebacker and Emlen Tunnell and Jimmy Patton in the secondary, played a major role in the Giants' successes of the late 1950's. With Landry running the defense, the Giants won three Eastern Conference titles and an N.F.L. championship in 1956.
        In Dallas he created the umbrella-like flex defense, and his Dallas coaching staff was the first to use computers to gain an edge in scouting, preparation and game planning. He reintroduced the shotgun formation to pro football, and his offenses presented multiple formations that confused defenses.
        Tex Schramm, the longtime Cowboys president, once said of him, ''He provided the leadership that set our sails.''
        Thomas Wade Landry was born on Sept. 11, 1924, in Mission, Tex. He played fullback at Mission High School (his team outscored opponents by 322-0 in his senior year) and entered the University of Texas. After playing in the 1942 season, under the renowned coach Dana X. Bible, he was off to the Army Air Forces. He would fly 30 B-17 missions over Europe as a member of the Eighth Air Force in Europe in World War II and survived one crash landing.
        Discharged in November 1945 as a first lieutenant, Landry returned to Texas and played fullback and a bit of quarterback, behind the all-American Bobby Layne; he also played defensive back for the Longhorns. He won all-Southwest Conference honors as a junior and was a co-captain as a senior. He played on Texas teams that won the 1948 Sugar Bowl over Alabama and the 1949 Orange Bowl over Georgia.
        After playing for a year with the New York Yankees football team of the All-America Conference, Landry joined the New York Giants of the N.F.L. in 1950. He was a Giants star through the 1955 season as a left defensive halfback, playing on the same side with the Hall of Fame safety Tunnell. Landry intercepted  31 passes with the Giants, returned three of them for touchdowns and was named All-Pro in 1954.
        In his first season with the Giants, under the veteran head coach Steve Owen, who had only a few assistants, Landry was already showing leadership. ''I was playing left defensive halfback, and I thought someone really had to coordinate us back there,'' Landry would recall. ''If the end moved out into the flat, I had to know where I was going and where Em Tunnell was going to go, and so on. So I kind of just took it upon myself at practice to direct a lot of things.''
        Landry became a player-coach, handling the defense, when Jim Lee Howell was named the Giants' head coach in 1954.
        He retired as a player after the 1955 season and then served as the Giants' defensive coordinator from 1956 through 1959, teaming up most of that time with the offensive coordinator Vince Lombardi, later the revered Green Bay Packers coach.
        ''Vince was a pure teacher, but he could not get what he wanted off films as quick as Tom,'' Wellington Mara, the Giants' owner, once said. ''In fact, there were few people who were as quick a study as Tom.''
        Mara tried to hire Landry as the Giants' head coach in 1960. But Landry took the Cowboys' coaching job instead. He was living during the off-season in Dallas and knew the men building the expansion team -- Clint Murchison Jr., the owner, and Schramm, the general manager.
        Landry remembered that when Schramm offered him the job, ''I said to my wife: 'Oh, well, we might as well try it. We'll probably be fired in two or three years but what the heck.' ''
        Linebacker Lee Roy Jordan once said: ''He taught that if you depend on emotion and you lost that, the result will be disappointing. If you play on execution and knowledge, you won't have those valleys.''
        Landry was known as an emotionless coach who kept a distance between himself and his players. But describing his last meeting with his Cowboys players, he wrote: ''This was going to be even harder than I thought. I tried to clear my throat but a huge lump remained. I could feel tears rolling down my cheeks.''
        Landry's dismissal hurt him deeply. He once wrote: ''People say you have to know when to retire, which is a dumb thing to say. If you want to go out on top, yeah, it becomes important when you quit. But I wasn't afraid of that. And I wasn't worried about getting fired. I knew the risk. To me, it's not an ego thing. I enjoy coaching. I enjoy helping people achieve something. But it's all over now. And I can't worry about things over which I have no control.''
        He is survived by his wife of 51 years, Alicia; a son, Tom Jr.; and one daughter, Kitty Phillips. Another daughter, Lisa, died in 1995.
        Landry often spoke of his Christian faith. During and after his football career he worked nationally for the Fellowship of Christian Athletes.
        ''Tom has the ability outwardly to appear very level, but he is human,'' Schramm once said of him. ''I know some of the losses must have torn him up pretty good inside.''
        The folded arms on the sideline. The rugged, set jaw. The fedora.
        Landry once said of his headgear: ''My hats did give me an identity. In fact, if I had a dollar for every time someone has seen me bareheaded and said, 'I almost didn't recognize you without a hat on,' I could have bought the Cowboys myself.''
      