
        Ed Linn, an author and magazine writer who collaborated with the maverick baseball owner Bill Veeck on three books and wrote widely on the Yankees and the Red Sox, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Spring Valley, Calif. He was 77.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Linn covered the trial of Jack Ruby for The Saturday Evening Post and worked with the infamous bank robber Willie Sutton on his autobiography, ''Where the Money Was'' (1976). But he was best known for sportswriting, having been a contributing editor to Sport magazine and co-author with Mr. Veeck for ''Veeck -- As in Wreck'' (1962), ''The Hustler's Handbook'' (1965) and ''Thirty Tons a Day'' (1972).
        Mr. Linn also collaborated with Sandy Koufax, Bob Cousy and Leo Durocher on their autobiographies.
        He wrote ''Inside the Yankees: The Championship Season'' (1978), ''Steinbrenner's Yankees'' (1982) and ''The Great Rivalry'' (1991), an account of the Yankee-Red Sox duels.
        The last of his 17 books was the biography ''Hitter: The Life and Turmoils of Ted Williams'' (1993).
        Edward Allen Linn, a native of Boston, graduated from Boston University in 1950, then wrote for the Voice of America in Washington before turning to freelance work.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1986, Mr. Linn told of working with Mr. Veeck, the owner of the Indians, Browns and White Sox, on ''Veeck -- As in Wreck.''
        After going over the manuscript for the presumed final time, the pair had ''the only real argument we were ever going to have.''
        As Mr. Linn remembered it: ''That late in the game, Veeck had decided that he had given Rogers Hornsby a worse pummeling than an old guy, long out of baseball, was worth. I accused Bill -- if you can believe this -- of running scared, and he informed me that it didn't matter what I thought. 'It's my book, and those two pages are out.'
        ''He was, of course, right on both counts. In order to explain away my temper tantrum before I left the next day, I said, 'You have to understand, Bill, that by this time I think I made you up.'
        '' 'Don't worry about it,' Bill said. 'You have to understand that by this time I think I wrote the book.'
        ''It was the perfect response. From that day on, we understood each other completely. Meaning that when Veeck got blacklisted from baseball for turning out such an honest, hard-hitting book, I could decide whether I wanted to be ashamed of myself.''
        Mr. Linn is survived by his wife, Ruth; a son, David of San Diego; a daughter, Hildy Angius of Spring Valley; a sister, Edith Goldman of Carmel, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      