
        George Jackson, who grew up in Harlem to become a movie producer, record company executive and Internet company founder, died yesterday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital. He was 42.
        Mr. Jackson died after a stroke a week earlier, said Frank Cooper, his business partner.
        For the last year, Mr. Jackson and his partners had been working in a loft on West 26th Street in Manhattan to create a series of Web sites, called the Urban Box Office Network, aimed at minorities. The first of the Internet sites is expected to go online on Feb. 29. An article in the company's newsletter said that Mr. Jackson had a ''25-hour-a-day dedication'' to the Internet venture.
        Mr. Jackson helped produce ''New Jack City,'' a 1991 movie that portrayed the rise and fall of a drug dealer in Harlem. When fights among youths broke out at movie theaters around the country where the film was playing, Mr. Jackson and his partner, Doug McHenry, defended their movie, saying it carried an antidrug, antiviolence message. In an opinion article in The New York Times, the two men wrote, ''The real cause of violence at the theaters is not cinematic images of drug culture but decades of poverty in our communities.''
        ''New Jack City,'' which brought in $50 million in box office sales in the United States, was the most successful film produced by Jackson-McHenry Entertainment. The company produced 12 films in the late 1980's and early 1990's. Others included ''A Thin Line Between Love and Hate'' and ''Krush Groove,'' the first major movie to focus on hip-hop and rap.
        In 1997, Polygram hired Mr. Jackson to be president and chief executive of Motown Records. At the record company, Mr. Jackson helped promote such artists as 98 Degrees and the Temptations. He left Motown after about a year when the Seagram Company bought Polygram.
        In January 1999, Mr. Jackson had dinner with two friends, Mr. Cooper and Adam Kidron, at the Mayflower Hotel in Manhattan. The three came up with an idea for an Internet company aimed at urban minorities, a group they felt was not being served by other start-ups. They wrote out their plan on a napkin.
        A year later, Urban Box Office Network has 175 employees and plans 30 Web sites, ranging from one devoted to hip-hop music to another catering to young Latinos.
        On the morning of Feb. 2, Mr. Jackson, an energetic man who weighed more than 300 pounds, attended a meeting at the company, but then left because he did not feel well. On his way home, Mr. Jackson asked the cab driver to take him to the hospital, said David Jaye, the company's spokesman. He fell unconscious and never woke up.
        Mr. Jackson was born in Harlem on Jan. 6, 1958. He attended the Monsignor Kelly School, a private school for talented children, many of whom came from poor families. He graduated from Fordham Preparatory School in 1976, and obtained a degree in sociology and economics from Harvard College in 1980. At Harvard, Mr. Jackson played football.
        He began his career at Procter & Gamble, where he worked for two years in marketing and sales. He then went to Universal Pictures. And from 1984 to 1986 he worked for Richard Pryor's production company, Indigo, which was part of Columbia Pictures, where he was executive vice president of production.
        He also worked on projects with, among others, LL Cool J, Russell Simmons, Ice-T, Wesley Snipes and Mario Van Peebles.
        Mr. Jackson was on the board at De La Salle Academy, a private school for children in the sixth to eighth grades. He helped found the academy on West 97th Street with his former teacher, Brother Brian Carty, and other alumni from Monsignor Kelly School. The school accepts 135 talented children from low-income families.
        Mr. Jackson is survived by his wife, Yuko; a daughter, Kona Rose; his mother, Henrietta Hogan Jackson Stancil; a sister, Dr. Sharon Jackson, of Silver Spring, Md.; and a brother, Bobbie E. Stancil, of Boston.
        Clarence Avant, the former chairman of Motown Records, said Mr. Jackson never lost sight of where he grew up.
        ''He never forgot Harlem,'' Mr. Avant said. ''Sometimes guys can go to Harvard and forget. George understood the street.''
        Correction:  February 16, 2000, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about George Jackson, a movie producer, record company executive and Internet company founder, misstated the day of his death. It was Thursday, not Monday.
      