
        Dr. Alvin M. Liberman, a retired professor of psychology and linguistics whose innovative research was influential in the study of speech perception, died on Jan. 13 at a hospital in Mansfield Center, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Mansfield Center.
        He died of complications after open-heart surgery, said Dr. Michael Studdert-Kennedy, a psychologist and colleague.
        Dr. Liberman was a former president and director of research at Haskins Laboratories in New Haven,  which is affiliated with Yale University and researches speech and reading.
        Much of his research was devoted to speech perception, or the way people identify the consonants and vowels that make up words. He was particularly intrigued by the question of why the sounds of speech are so much swifter and more effective in conveying linguistic information than are any other sounds.
        ''Speech is not an arbitrary signal that just happened to be available as language evolved,'' said Dr. Studdert-Kennedy, another former president of Haskins, explaining the insights yielded by Dr. Liberman's work. ''Rather, speech is an integral part of language itself. Consonants and vowels, the discrete elements essential for a sizable lexicon, do not combine like beads on a string, but are overlapped, or encoded, into syllables. Speed is thus purchased at the price of complexity.''
        In the 1970's and 1980's, Dr. Liberman, his wife, Dr. Isabelle Yoffe Liberman, and others at Haskins Laboratories conducted research about reading. An expert on reading disabilities, Isabelle Liberman died in 1990.
        Their studies are credited with having done much to bring recognition of the concept that children who have trouble learning to read almost invariably are unable to learn easily how to break a word into its component consonants and vowels.
        While conducting research at Haskins, Dr. Liberman was on the faculty at the University of Connecticut and was head of the psychology department there in the 1960's. He was also an adjunct professor of linguistics at Yale for more than a decade.
        He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences. He received the Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award from the American Psychological Association and the Warren Medal from the Society of Experimental Psychologists. In 1997, he received the Outstanding Scientific Contribution Award of the Society for the Scientific Study of Reading.
        Born in St. Joseph, Mo., Dr. Liberman received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Missouri and a doctorate in psychology in 1942 from Yale.
        He is survived by two sons, Mark, of Philadelphia, and Charles, of Milton, Mass.; a daughter, Sarah Ash of Raleigh, N.C.; and nine grandchildren.
      