
        John J. Gaherin, a negotiator who represented New York newspaper publishers and the owners of Major League Baseball in the 1960's and 70's and helped write baseball's first labor contracts and pension plan, died on Jan. 24 at Cape Cod Hospital Extended Care in Hyannis, Mass. He was 85 and lived in Cotuit, Mass.
        Parkinson's disease was the cause of death, his wife, Rita, said.
        In a labor relations career that spanned the last half-century, Mr. Gaherin also represented railroads, airlines and other industries and was a private arbitrator.
        He was president and chief negotiator of the New York Newspaper Publishers Association from 1964 to 1967, representing 7 newspapers against 10 unions in a turbulent era of strikes, slowdowns and battles over wages and labor-saving automation that saw the demise of three of the city's daily newspapers.
        And he was chief negotiator for organized baseball from 1967 to 1978, when the rights of owners and players were changing dramatically. He and Marvin J. Miller, executive director of the players association, negotiated Major League Baseball's first basic labor contract in 1968, providing for minimum salaries, and a year later negotiated baseball's first pension plan for players.
        In 1975, Mr. Gaherin was involved in talks over baseball's reserve clause, which kept players tied to one team unless they were traded or sold. But after club owners rejected his proposal to negotiate, an arbitrator threw out the reserve clause, giving rise to free agency, which has enabled star players to negotiate multimillion-dollar contracts with the highest-bidding clubs.
        Former colleagues recalled Mr. Gaherin (pronounced GUER-in) as a tireless and astute negotiator, with a firm grasp of complex issues, a repertoire of jokes to break tensions and a calm demeanor in a crisis. Because he spoke for large groups with diverse interests -- 11 or more railroads, 7 newspapers and 20 or more baseball club owners -- he often had to devote as much time to seeking consensus among management as he did to bargaining with unions.
        ''Of all the management people I dealt with in baseball, he clearly was the most knowledgeable and skilled,'' Mr. Miller said of Mr. Gaherin. ''He had the most integrity. In addition, he had a wonderful sense of humor. He had a seemingly endless store of funny stories, and he told them well.''
        Mr. Gaherin was born in New York City on Nov. 24, 1914. He attended Pratt Institute but did not earn a degree. As a young man, he worked on railroads as a clerk, assistant station master and patrolman. By 1949, he was assistant personnel manager on the Long Island Rail Road, and by 1954, he was the line's personnel manager. Three years later, he was director of labor relations for the New Haven Railroad. He later negotiated contracts for the Eastern Carriers Conference, a group of 11 Eastern railroads.
        During his tenure with the publishers association, there were strikes, including a 25-day walkout at The New York Times in 1965, and a 140-day shutdown of the fledgling World Journal Tribune -- an amalgam of The Herald Tribune, The Journal-American and The World-Telegram & The Sun -- which itself died in 1967. Wages rose, but there were no breakthroughs on automation.
        After 11 years with organized baseball, Mr. Gaherin represented airlines and other industries, and in recent years was a private arbitrator.
        He is survived by his wife; one son, John Jr., of San Diego; six daughters, Pamela Watson of Gladwyne, Pa., Stephanie Keane of Edina, Minn., Pegeen Gaherin of Westport, Conn., Maryann Murphy of Fairfield, Conn., Tara Gaherin of Aurora, Colo., and Seana Gaherin of Sandwich, Mass.; and seven grandchildren.
      