
        Ervin Litkei, a music business executive who owned several companies but whose passion was the composition of patriotic music -- including marches dedicated to every United States president since Franklin D. Roosevelt -- died on Feb. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 78.
        His wife, Andrea Fodor, said the cause was a pulmonary embolism.
        At a time when few composers devote themselves to overtly patriotic works, Mr. Litkei, who came to the United States from Hungary in 1948, made it his specialty. Several of his marches, including ''The President Lyndon Baines Johnson March'' and ''The President George Bush March,'' were played at the inaugural ceremonies for those Presidents. For the inauguration of Bill Clinton, Mr. Litkei supplied not only ''The President Bill Clinton March,'' but also ''A Salute to the First Lady March,'' apparently the first (and so far only) march ever composed for a First Lady.
        Mr. Litkei commemorated historical events beyond inaugurations in his marches. ''The Captured 50'' was a tribute to the hostages held in the United States Embassy in Tehran. ''The Torch of Peace'' was composed during the Gulf War. For the American bicentennial celebrations in 1976, Mr. Litkei composed ''The Bicentennial March,'' produced a concert of patriotic music in Central Park, and published ''The Bicentennial Music Book.''
        He commemorated the 1959 meeting of President Dwight D. Eisenhower and the Soviet leader Nikita S. Khrushchev with ''The Common Ground,'' an album for RCA that included his arrangements of Russian folk songs and American popular standards. He later composed ''A Salute to President Gorbachev'' in honor of the former Soviet president.
        Also among Mr. Litkei's works are several large orchestral scores, including ''Peace and Remembrance,'' a piano concerto, and ''The Atlantic and Pacific Suite,'' a six-movement symphonic piece.
        He wrote the soundtracks for several films and television productions, including ''The Golden Cage'' -- a film about the Hungarian revolution of 1956 -- and the A & E cable television channel's biographies ''General Omar Bradley,'' ''Norman Rockwell,'' ''Milton S. Hershey: The Chocolate King,'' and ''Admiral (Bull) Halsey.''
        Mr. Litkei was born in Budapest in 1921 and studied music at the Music Conservatory of Hungary and architecture at the University of Hungary. After World War II, he worked as a journalist and an architect in Budapest. He also began composing marches in the style of John Philip Sousa.
        He composed the first of his tributes to United States presidents, ''The Franklin D. Roosevelt March,'' when he was still living in Hungary. ''He was more than God to me,'' Mr. Litkei said of Roosevelt in a 1991 interview, adding that the cadence of his march came from watching marching American soldiers. ''They didn't have heavy steps like the Germans or Russians. When Americans are marching, you can feel the lightness.''
        Mr. Litkei left Hungary for the United States in 1948. He worked for several years in Hollywood, writing songs for films and translating the lyrics of American hits into Hungarian.
        He also founded several distribution companies for recordings and accessories, among them Olympia Record Industries, the Arovox Record Corporation and Galiko Music and Film Enterprises, all of which he sold to the Rank Organization for a reported $11 million in 1989. After the sale, he continued as president of Leona Music Publishing, Jade Panther Corporation of America, Hanlit Publications, Aurora Records and JazzMania Records.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Litkei is survived by a daughter, Dr. Cathy Litkei Greene of Highland Mills, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      