
        Harry William Prichett Sr., an architect of television's first attempt at interactive broadcasting with the 1950's children's program ''Winky Dink and You,'' died on Feb. 5 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Prichett was a graphic artist at an advertising agency when he had the idea of turning the television set into a toy and teaching aid for children. He and a partner, Edwin Brit Wyckoff, a writer, developed the concept into a highly successful program, which began a four-year run on CBS in 1954 with Jack Barry as host.
        The show returned, with 65 color cartoons, and ran in syndication from 1969 to 1973. It was revived yet again in the 1990's as a video kit featuring newly digitized cartoons and new hosts.
        The original ''Winky Dink'' also came with a kit containing a thin, transparent Magic Screen that young viewers could stick onto the home set, along with Magic Crayons and a Wipe-Away Woobie Cloth. Young fans liked the show so much that the network broadcast it both on Saturdays and Sundays. At its peak, the show drew some 25,000 letters a week from viewers asking for the Magic Kit, which cost 50 cents.
        When the show began, the title character, Winky, would tell viewers to put the plastic sheet against the screen and rub it with the cloth to force out air bubbles and make the sheet stick. Then Winky and his dog, Woofer, would go on an adventure.
        Usually Winky ran into trouble and asked the children to help by drawing something on the screen, like a bridge over a river. Winky and Woofer would scoot across the bridge and ask the children to erase the bridge, leaving the villains stranded. Winky regularly ran afoul of parents whose offspring would apply their Magic Crayons directly to the television screen rather than to the protective transparent sheet.
        Mr. Prichett was born in Philadelphia and trained at the Philadelphia School of Art. He first went to work in New York as assistant to the designer Paul Rand.
        Over the years he served as an art director and top executive at various agencies and was associated with the Instructional Resource Center at the State University of New York at Albany and the Media Lab at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He directed I.B.M. World Trade's production staff in Europe and produced award-winning documentaries.
        He is survived by two daughters, Kerry W., of Anchorage, and Pamela P. Vainsman of Manhattan; a son, Harry W. Jr., also of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
      