
        Ronnie Robertson, a silver-medalist figure skater in the 1956 Winter Olympics and an ice-show star who was known as the Blur for his uncanny spins, died on Feb. 4 at a hospital in Fountain Valley, Calif. Robertson, who lived in Irvine, Calif., was 62.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, his family said.
        In the mid-1950's, American men's figure-skating was dominated by Hayes Alan Jenkins, Robertson and Jenkins's younger brother, David. In 1956, they finished 1-2-3 in the Olympics, world championships and United States championships.
        Hayes Alan Jenkins was dominant in the now-defunct school figures, or compulsory segments, which involved the tracing of circles. Robertson was the consummate showman, excelling in the freestyle. Because the compulsories counted for 60 percent of the total score, the math worked against Robertson.
        A native of Brackenridge, Pa., near Pittsburgh, Robertson moved with his family to southern California and grew up in Long Beach. Often ill as a youngster, he began skating to build stamina and at age 14 became national junior champion.
        Robertson came excruciatingly close to the Olympic gold medal at the 1956 Winter Olympics in Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy. The judges calculated with slide rules for two hours before determining that the complicated scoring had given Hayes Alan Jenkins seven-tenths of a point more than Robertson.
        Skating on a hard, bumpy outdoor rink in subzero temperatures, Robertson won the freestyle with extraordinary leaps and spins, but Jenkins had a large enough margin in the compulsories to take first place.
        Two weeks later, at the world championships in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, Jenkins and Robertson were again 1-2, but Robertson enthralled the 8,000 spectators, again winning the freestyle portion.
        When Robertson faced the Jenkins brothers in the 1956 United States championships at Philadelphia, he was under a cloud, the German Skating Federation having accused him of demanding excessive expenses on a European tour. After finishing second to Hayes Alan Jenkins for the third time in six weeks, Robertson was cleared of wrongdoing by the United States Skating Federation.
        When he was edged out for the Olympic title, Robertson had remarked, ''That cost me $1 million,'' suggesting he could have signed a hugely lucrative ice-show contract if he had won the gold medal. After competing in the nationals, he signed a two-year deal with the Ice Capades for $100,000. He became a marquee attraction in the 1960's with that company and then Holiday on Ice.
        He later coached, at times helping the former Olympic champion Brian Boitano, and recently taught at a public rink in Irvine. He is survived by his mother, Christine Robertson, of Irvine.
        Robertson's ability to spin at an estimated 240 revolutions a minute was studied by scientists in the American space program who were trying to determine how astronauts could maintain balance in a weightless environment. But they apparently reached no conclusions on why Robertson never became dizzy.
        ''Everyone told me it was a natural ability, that I had one of the best centers of gravity they had seen,'' Robertson told The Los Angeles Times in an interview in 1982. ''My weight was distributed just right, my legs were bowed just enough to spin.''
        Robertson reveled in his showmanship.
        As he put it: ''I would like to be remembered as the best skating entertainer.''
      