
        Adrian Lajous Martinez, a finance official who resigned his cabinet post in 1982 to protest the nationalization of the banks, died of a heart attack here on Jan. 24. He was 79.
        Mr. Lajous's refusal to endorse President Jose Lopez Portillo's takeover of the financial system ended his 32-year government career but earned him widespread respect. Mexican presidents have enjoyed kinglike powers, and few senior officials had ever dared disagree publicly with them.
        After Mr. Lajous (pronounced lah-ZHOO) left, he became a newspaper writer. He referred with wry wit to the vast powers of Mexican presidents in a column published in 1992, during the presidency of Carlos Salinas de Gortari. In 1964, when Mr. Lajous was living in England, Mr. Salinas, then a university student, visited his house in London accompanied by Mr. Salinas's brother and by an Irish wolfhound, Mr. Lajous wrote in the column. Mr. Salinas asked Mr. Lajous to keep the hound in his garage overnight, but the dog was howling and Mr. Lajous refused.
        ''If I had known that one of those two boys was going to be president, the dog would have slept in my bed, and I on the floor of my garage,'' Mr. Lajous wrote.
        Mr. Lajous was born in 1920 in Argentina. His father was an executive for the Ford Motor Company there, Mr. Lajous earned a law degree from the national university here. In his 20's, he bought a small radio station and built it into a nationwide network. After joining the government in 1950, he was the Mexican representative to the World Bank and Unesco. He headed the Foreign Trade Bank of Mexico when the banks were nationalized.
        Mr. Lajous's son, Adrian, president of the government oil company, Pemex, until his resignation in December, is now the president's international adviser on petroleum. Mr. Lajous's daughter Luz, a former senator, is a fellow at Harvard. Another daughter, Alejandra, is director of the public television station here, and another daughter, Roberta, a former ambassador to Austria, directs the Foreign Service training academy.
        Also surviving are his wife, Luz Vargas Burgos, three brothers and sisters and seven grandchildren.
      