
        Walter Nils Frank, a Wall Street executive who served as chairman of the board of governors of the New York Stock Exchange in the mid-1960's, died on Tuesday at a retirement home in Hanover, N.H. He was 91 and had moved to Hanover in 1991.
        A member of the New York Stock Exchange for more than six decades, Mr. Frank actively preached the virtues of Wall Street to the public, which had become generally wary of stocks after the market crash of 1929, and to Washington, where he helped shape some of the policies affecting the securities industry.
        Mr. Frank ''was a tireless campaigner on behalf of capitalism,'' said Richard A. Grasso, the current chairman of the exchange. Along with the exchange's president at the time, Keith Funston, Mr. Frank played a crucial role in the national effort in the 1950's and 1960's to convince millions of Americans to own stock, Mr. Grasso said.
        Mr. Frank also represented the interests of Wall Street to legislators and regulators, Mr. Grasso said, persuading them of the importance of Wall Street to the country. ''Mr. Frank was one of the very early leaders who went to Washington to tell our story,'' he said.
        Mr. Frank was elected to the board of governors of the exchange in 1959 and became vice chairman in 1962. He was chairman from 1965 to 1967. After the exchange was revamped, he served on the new board of directors for six years and was active in discussions with Congress and the S.E.C. about how the industry should be regulated.
        As vice chairman of the exchange in 1963, Mr. Frank was responsible for halting trading just 26 minutes after word of President John F. Kennedy's shooting. ''I attempted to remain calm,'' he told The New York Times.
        After spending nearly 40 years at the firm of Marcus & Company, where he worked on the trading floor as a specialist, Mr. Frank formed his own firm, Walter N. Frank & Company, in 1971. Although he retired in 1988, he remained a partner there until his death.
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Frank entered New York University in 1924 before leaving to work as a sales assistant at a water pump company. Presented with a necktie as a Christmas bonus, he decided to seek his fortune on Wall Street, according to his grandson, Stephen. He became a clerk on Wall Street at $30 a week and became a member of the exchange in 1937.
        ''He was the consummate optimist,'' Mr. Grasso said. When asked how he was, he would reply ''Bullish,'' his grandson recalled.
        Mr. Frank is survived by his daughter, Judith Frank Ketterer, of Lyme, N.H.; a sister, Elsa Hintze, of Hanover; six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren. His wife of 67 years, Ruth Carlson Frank, died in 1998. Their son, Walter N. Frank Jr., died in 1995.
      