
        Guy Waterman, who wrote books about hiking in the New England mountains and the preservation of their purity, died on Feb. 6. He was 67 and lived in East Corinth, Vt.
        Mr. Waterman climbed to the top of Mount Lafayette, a 5,249-foot peak in the White Mountains in northern New Hampshire, and sat down to die in below-zero temperatures.
        He had sent letters to friends telling them what he planned to do and where to find his body. Five friends retrieved the body on Feb. 11.
        ''He lived with such intensity that he couldn't sustain it anymore,'' said Rebecca Oreskes, a friend who works in the White Mountain National Forest. ''He talked to us all about not wanting to grow old.''
        Mr. Waterman's death ended an accomplished life, but one with many abrupt changes of direction. At 16, he was a professional jazz pianist, and later was a speechwriter for three presidents.
        In 1973, a year after his second marriage, to Laura Johnson, the couple moved to Vermont to live in a cabin that had no electricity, plumbing or telephone, and was a mile from the nearest road.
        Mike Dickerman, a friend of the Watermans who also writes about the New England outdoors, said the couple were avid mountain climbers. They had scaled all 48 peaks in New Hampshire that are 4,000 feet or higher, ''in the winter, from all four sides,'' Mr. Dickerman said.
        They also wrote four books seeking to add historical context and philosophical perspective to their wilderness activities. These were ''Backwoods Ethics: Environmental Issues for Hikers and Campers, (Countryman Press, 1979), ''Forest and Crag,'' (Appalachian Mountain Books, 1989), ''Yankee Rock and Ice,'' (Stackpole Books, 1993), and Wilderness Ethics, (Countryman Press, 1993).
        Another book, ''Mountain Tales: Tall and True,'' containing 20 pieces, half fact and half fiction, is scheduled to be published this year by Mountaineers Books in Seattle.
        Some of the Watermans' commentary was barbed, like the condemnation of hikers who bring their cell phones to remote, pristine forests. And some of the commentary was quite practical, like their 11 pieces of advice for winter climbing. One example: ''Don't count on following your footprints.''
        Ms. Waterman said that she and her husband tried not to preach, but instead emphasized ''the spirit of how people should come to the mountains.'' He expressed great disappointment to his wife in his failure to persuade others to leave the mountains unspoiled.
        Mr. Waterman spent most of his life in New Haven, where his father taught physics at Yale University until being appointed as the first director of the National Science Foundation.
        The younger Mr. Waterman attended the Foote School in New Haven, the Shady Hill School in Cambridge, Mass., and the Sidwell Friends School in Washington. On vacations, he would hike and canoe in remote parts of New England with his father.
        In his teens he began appearing in jazz clubs in the Washington area as a pianist with the Riverboat Trio. He married before entering George Washington University; by the time he graduated he had three sons.
        Mr. Waterman then found work as a legislative staff aide and speechwriter, working mainly for the Senate Minority Policy Committee. A staunch Republican, he wrote speeches for Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford. Mr. Waterman later became a speechwriter for the General Electric Company in New York.
        The Watermans were married in 1972, after meeting while rock climbing near New Paltz, N.Y. She is the daughter of Thomas H. Johnson, who was chairman of the Lawrenceville School in Lawrenceville, N.J., and edited the letters and poetry of Emily Dickinson.
        The Watermans homesteaded on 27 acres near East Corinth, a village in east-central Vermont. Though they had no modern conveniences, their living room included a Steinway grand piano that had been lugged in piece by piece.
        ''They purposefully created a really amazing life for themselves,'' said Helen Whybrow, editor in chief of Countryman Press.
        Two of Mr. Waterman's sons from his first marriage, which ended in divorce, were lost to him in separate incidents. In 1973, William, the oldest, wrote an enigmatic letter to his father saying he was going on an extended trip. He was never heard from again and is presumed dead.
        John, the youngest son, died in 1978 while trying to climb Mount McKinley in Alaska with grossly inadequate provisions.
        James, the surviving son, lives in Longmont, Colo.
        The summit of Mount Lafayette where Mr. Waterman died was like a second home to him and his wife. They carefully created paths to guide hikers away from rare alpine flowers. Nearby on another ridge, he had built a cairn, a conical heap of stones built as a monument or landmark. Inside the cairn he put a pair of his son John's hiking shoes.
        Ms. Waterman said she could not explain her husband's decision to kill himself. ''He stayed with us as long as he could,'' she said.
        Correction:  February 23, 2000, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Guy Waterman, a wilderness writer, misstated the birth order of two of his three sons. John, who died in 1978 while trying to climb Mount McKinley, was the middle son; James was the youngest.
      