
        Robert Lamb Jr., the Justice Department's top community liaison for the Pacific Northwest, died on Feb. 9 at a hospital in Seattle. He was 74 and lived in Bellevue, Wash.
        Mr. Lamb had been in poor health for some time, said the Community Relations Service at the department.
        He had been the Northwest regional director since 1973.
        He was a police captain in Atlantic City before he went to work for the Community Relations Service, a Justice Department agency established under the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
        Mr. Lamb, who was black, gained recognition in the United States and Europe for his work to improve relations between the police and African-Americans.
        In 1966 he became the first commanding officer of the Atlantic City Police-Community Relation's Unit.
        He traveled across the country to advise other police departments, and in doing so became an expert on minority police officers and their sometimes troubled relations with their white colleagues.
        Mr. Lamb was a consultant on police-community relations to the Metropolitan Police in London, the Community Psychiatry Program at Harvard and the World Council of Churches' Institute on Penology in Geneva.
        In Sweden, he advised Gunnar Myrdal, the sociologist and economist, on conflict management and race relations.
        Mr. Lamb was born in Norfolk, Va., and reared in Atlantic City. He  learned about African-American history from books in his family's home, and later amassed a collection of books and papers on the black experience in America.
        In World War II he served with the Third Army in Europe under Gen. George S. Patton, and received four combat decorations.
        Mr. Lamb is survived by his wife, Mildred; three daughters, a son and five grandchildren.
        In 1982 the National Organization of Black Law Enforcement Officials established a Robert Lamb Jr. Humanitarian Award, honoring efforts to restrain the use of deadly force in the line of duty. It did so in recognition of Mr. Lamb's 30 years of work in that area.
      