
        Fernando Benitez Gutierrez, a journalist who helped formulate new visions of Mexican identity in his penetrating reports on the Indian cultures and through the cultural publications that he founded, died of a heart attack on Monday.
        He was 88, a government biography said.
        Perhaps his most important work was a four-volume ''Indians of Mexico,'' published in 1967. It was based on nearly 20 years of reporting that included extensive travels by burro and on foot through the most remote areas.
        ''He made an invisible population visible to us,'' Carlos Fuentes, the novelist, wrote of Mr. Benitez in a remembrance published today in the newspaper Reforma. ''He once told me that when an Indian dies, it's as though an entire library had died.''
        Mr. Benitez's career sprawled across half a century, from the 30's through the 80's.
        As editor of a series of cultural supplements to Mexican newspapers, Mr. Benitez encouraged several important writers, including Carlos Monsivais, Jose Emilio Pacheco and Elena Poniatowska, early in their careers.
        ''He was a powerful promoter of talent,'' Ms. Poniatowska said in an interview today.
        Mr. Benitez was born in Mexico City. The Biographical Dictionary of the Mexican Government lists his birthdate as Jan. 16, 1912. Two newspapers, La Jornada and Universal, put his birthdate as Jan. 16, 1910. A reporter at La Jornada said she had seen government tax documents listing that birthdate.
        He was the oldest of four children. His father, the heir to a mining fortune who was educated in Paris, eventually frittered away the wealth drinking in bars, Mr. Benitez told associates.
        His youth played out against the epic violence of the Mexican revolution, leaving him with images ''that influenced the rest of my life,'' Mr. Benitez wrote in an essay on the absurd slaughter suffered mainly by poor Mexicans in that period.
        ''I understood that there was not one Mexico, but many Mexicos,'' he wrote. ''The Indians, the slaves on the plantations, the wretched of the earth. They were as innocent as children. They weren't civilized, rational beings. And almost all of them would be murdered by generals who were, in fact, rational beings.''
        Mr. Benitez's writings portrayed a revolution sparked by humanistic ideals that were gradually betrayed.
        Nonetheless, he believed that successive presidents of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, which has governed without interruption since 1929, made important contributions to development, and he occasionally defended presidents against other writers' criticism.
        He was private secretary to the Interior Minister in 1946, and in 1991, President Carlos Salinas de Gortari named him ambassador to the Dominican Republic.
        A massacre of students by a government-sponsored paramilitary group in 1971 provoked severe accusations by prominent intellectuals against President Luis Echeverria, according to an account written by the historian Enrique Krauze.
        ''We have to choose between Echeverria and fascism,'' Mr. Benitez responded to the president's critics, Mr. Krauze related.
        Mr. Benitez's career began in 1936 with El Nacional, a government paper. After he became editor there, he founded a supplement called The Mexican Magazine of Culture.
        Leaving El Nacional in 1949, he joined another paper, Novedades, where he founded a similar supplement, Mexico in Culture, editing it through the 50's.
        In the 60's, he edited Culture in Mexico, a section of the magazine Siempre! In the late 70's and 80's, he edited cultural sections for two other papers, Unomasuno and La Jornada.
        ''He wrote very well, and he wrote a lot, but he didn't limit himself to that,'' the poet Gabriel Zaid wrote today. ''Instead, he passed his life helping others to write, organizing literary circles that worked marvelously, greatly elevating Mexican culture.''
        Surviving are his wife, Georgina Conde Taboada; a son, Fernando Benitez Conde; and a sister, Ana.
      