
        Murray Bernstein, who took a narrow store on Broadway and turned it into Murray's Sturgeon Shop, a legendary Upper West Side purveyor of salmon and sable, caviar and camaraderie, died Monday at a nursing home in Lauderhill, Fla. He was 87.
        Limousines would line up in front of the store, and it regularly shipped sturgeon and other delicacies overseas. But its heart and soul were in the ready smile and deft cutting stroke of Mr. Bernstein. His own life epitomized a neighborhood of immigrants, many of them Jewish, who had known and expected struggle. He remained active in the grocery workers' union even after he became a store owner, worked six days a week and never took a single vacation.
        His ambitions were sturgeon-size (a beluga sturgeon can weigh half a ton). ''He had grandiose plans for making the best smoked fish in the world,'' said his daughter, Cecile Rivel. ''He was a perfectionist.''
        Jack Rudin, a member of the New York real estate family, began coming by in 1950, and remembers the sturgeon shop as a sort of lodge where the regulars would nosh on pieces of salmon and bagels between shots of ice-cold vodka. Mr. Rudin's wife Rebecca asked Mr. Bernstein to bless the couple's marriage, which lasted until her death 35 years later.
        Murray's Sturgeon Shop, which looked like a jewel box with its large mirrors and stainless steel, became a place where real estate magnates and politicians would bump into policemen and shopkeepers. Show business personalities like Zero Mostel and Sammy Cahn were regulars.
        ''He may have been a fish slicer, but he was a very sage fellow,'' Mr. Rudin said of Mr. Bernstein. ''He knew his product. He knew his customers. He ran a clubhouse there.''
        Mr. Bernstein was born on Feb. 14, 1913, in Poland, and came to New York as a teenager to escape anti-Semitic violence. In 1932, he met the woman who would become his wife, Nettie Katz, through a friend, Albert Newman. He and Mr. Newman went to Montreal, where the prospective bride was living, for the introduction. They married three days later, and returned to New York.
        Mr. Bernstein worked mainly in grocery stores, but as the Depression deepened in the early 1930's, he lost job after job and was unemployed for an entire year. But in 1945, Mr. Bernstein was able to buy his first store, at Broadway and 89th Street, from the same Mr. Newman who had helped arrange his marriage.
        Several years later, his brother Sam became a co-owner. Sam died in 1977. In the late 1940's the store moved to its current location, 2429 Broadway, at 90th Street.
        When Mr. Bernstein took over, the store sold some fish but specialized in candy and nuts. The Bernsteins concentrated on fish, and set out to popularize smoked fish in the European tradition at a time when many Americans who lived beyond New York didn't know nova from lox. It was hard work.
        Sturgeon, the specialty of the house, may produce caviar, but its pearly saline flesh is loved for itself by connoisseurs of smoked fish. Murray's had some of the finest, each customer's order immaculately sliced with surgical skill. The slicing board was hospital clean, and the store held no odor of fish. Murray's sable, the silky smoked codfish known as the poor man's sturgeon, was legendary, too.
        Early each Tuesday and Thursday morning, Mr. Bernstein could be heard negotiating with his smoked-fish suppliers in a loud voice. ''This is not acceptable,'' his daughter remembers him saying, again and again. ''This has to go back.''
        She said he would regularly return a third of the fish, and then demand that it be replaced the same day. He believed that the customer was always right, and that included himself.
        The diligence paid off. The food critic Craig Claiborne said the store was ''perhaps the finest in the city.'' New York magazine, calling it the ''Tiffany of smoked-fish stores,'' likened Murray and Sam Bernstein's carving skills to that of the heart surgeon Christian Barnaard.
        In 1974, the Bernsteins sold the store to Artie Cutler, a restaurateur. As Mr. Cutler's empire of Manhattan restaurants like Ollie's and Carmine's expanded, he sold the sturgeon shop to Ira Goller in the early 1990's.
        One day, a year after Mr. Bernstein's wife Nettie died in 1990, he was talking to Florence, the widow of his nephew. She had been a widow for 18 years, and the two, who had known each other for 43 years, were discussing how lonely they felt. He immediately proposed.
        ''My father doesn't take long,'' Ms. Rivel said.
        In addition to his wife and daughter, who lives in Weston, Conn., he is survived by a sister, Ann Fortune of Clifton, N.J.; a son, William Bernstein of Westminster, Colo.; five grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Bernstein remained active in the grocery store union even during his Florida retirement. He always refused to open an Upper East Side branch, though many of his customers had moved across town.
        ''He felt it wouldn't be the same,'' Ms. Rivel said. ''It wouldn't have had his personal touch.''
      