
        Harold M. Mulvey, the Connecticut Superior Court judge who presided calmly over the emotionally charged murder trials of several Black Panthers in the early 1970's, died Sunday at a nursing home in Hamden, Conn. He was 86.
        In his most famous ruling, Judge Mulvey dismissed murder and kidnapping charges against Bobby G. Seale, the Black Panther national chairman, and Ericka Huggins, the party's Connecticut leader, after the jury deadlocked in May 1971.
        It had taken four months to select the jury, and the judge stunned courtroom spectators who had been expecting him to order a retrial when he said, ''I find it impossible to believe that an unbiased jury could be selected without superhuman efforts -- efforts which this court, the state and these defendants should not be called upon either to make or to endure.''
        In announcing his decision, the judge noted that the defendants had already spent two years in jail since being arrested in connection with the torture and killing of Alex Rackley, a member of the New York chapter of the Black Panthers found burned and fatally shot in Connecticut in May 1969. Other members had suspected him of being a police informer.
        The charges against numerous Black Panthers in the case drew widespread publicity, and protests shut down Yale University and attracted 15,000 people to a rally on the New Haven green.
        The case prompted the president of Yale, Kingman Brewster Jr., to say he was ''skeptical of the ability of black revolutionaries to achieve a fair trial anywhere in the United States.'' Spiro T. Agnew, the vice president, suggested that Mr. Brewster be removed from his post for the remark.
        Judge Mulvey defused much of the tension in the courtroom during the trials, rarely showing emotion and being patient with periodic outbursts.
        He maintained his calm throughout, though he did scowl periodically, as he did when Mr. Seale remarked from the stand that political assassination was a tactic of the Central Intelligence Agency and not the Black Panthers.
        During the trial of Lonnie McLucas, a Black Panther member convicted of conspiracy in the same killing, Judge Mulvey did not intervene when the defendant and the gallery exchanged greetings of ''All power to the people'' each time Mr. McLucas entered and left the courtroom.
        ''I have tolerated a certain amount of nonsense in this court,'' Judge Mulvey said after that trial.
        At first, the Panthers accused him of being racially biased, quoting remarks he made during a confidential study of the judiciary undertaken by a sociologist from Washington University in St. Louis. Some of the remarks were leaked to alternative newspapers, which quoted Judge Mulvey as saying that racial integration had damaged New Haven's schools and driven whites to move to the suburbs.
        In a public speech on the subject of race, however, he said: ''It was never a problem when we were children. Our first lesson at the knee of our mother, or at kindergarten with the sister, was that all men are created equal. Each has a body and soul.''
        Mr. Mulvey was born in New Haven on Dec. 5, 1914, one of five children of parents who had emigrated from Ireland. He received an undergraduate degree from Fordham University and earned his law degree there in 1941 before joining the Coast Guard during World War II for four years, commanding a landing craft at Iwo Jima and Okinawa.
        After briefly practicing law in New York, he opened a law office in New Haven and eventually became the city's corporation counsel under Mayor Richard C. Lee. Gov. John Dempsey appointed him state attorney general in 1963, and he won election to the office in 1967 but resigned a year later to accept appointment as a Superior Court judge.
        Mr. Mulvey served on the bench until he reached the mandatory retirement age of 70 in 1984, after which he became a state trial referee. He claimed that his favorite pastime was gardening, although he admitted to neglecting his flowers during difficult trials.
        Mr. Mulvey was married to the late Genevieve Carrol Mulvey, and is survived by a daughter, Ann Mulvey, of Blaine, Wash., and two grandchildren.
      