
        Baron Enrico di Portanova, one of the most flamboyant members of the international jet set, who once listed the best things in life as ''sun, sex and spaghetti,'' died on Monday at his home in Houston. He also had homes in Rome and Acapulco, Mexico. The baron's Italian passport gave his age as 66, although longtime friends believed that he was perhaps older.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        A grandson of Hugh Roy Cullen, the Texas oil magnate who was known as the King of the Wildcatters, Baron di Portanova left Rome, where he was in the jewelry business, in the early 1960's to claim his inheritance in Houston. He originally received $5,000 a month from the Cullen estate, but by the early 1980's the sum had increased to $1.2 million a month, and his net worth was estimated at more than $50 million.
        In one of the biggest estate cases in American history, the baron and his younger brother, Ugo, filed suit against the Cullen family in the early 1980's. The brothers claimed a bigger share of the Cullen billions as well as damages for inadequate accounting. Roy Cohn, the baron's lawyer, put the total figure at $2 billion. In 1984, a probate judge dismissed the suit as ''without merit.''
        Baron di Portanova, who was born in Los Angeles and reared in Italy, was known as Ricky to his thousands of friends in the world's capitals and playgrounds. His mother, Lillie, was the daughter of Hugh Roy Cullen, and his father was Baron Paolo di Portanova of Italy.
        The baron's first marriage, to Ljuba Otanovic, a Yugoslavian basketball star, ended in divorce in 1972. The next year, in London, he married Sandra Hovas of Houston. The baroness survives him, as does his brother, Baron Ugo di Portanova of Houston.
        A generous host who always reached for restaurant checks and entertained lavishly, the baron once offered $13 million for a share in the ''21'' Club, which he intended as a birthday present for his wife. The deal was called off when it was announced that the baroness planned to open a boutique on the second floor above the dining room, a plan not in keeping with what the owners had in mind for the club.
        When his plans for the birthday gift fell through, he had a glass covering, with air-conditioning, erected over the garden of the family residence in Houston.
        The di Portanovas for years traveled on their own Lear jet, which the baron referred to as his ''taxi.'' He told Charlotte Curtis of The New York Times in 1984 that the couple had so much luggage that it had to be sent on commercial airlines with the servants.
        The di Portanova residence in Acapulco, a spectacular villa named Arabesque, was at one time said to be the largest in Acapulco. The house has 28 bedrooms, 26 baths, 5 kitchens (the baron was proud of his culinary skills, specializing in caviar tossed with tagliolini), 4 swimming pools, indoor waterfalls, a nightclub, a tower manned by guards with machine-guns and a rooftop helicopter landing pad.
        The villa became a vacation destination for many of the world's leading entertainment and political figures. The first party at the villa was for Henry and Nancy Kissinger. The house was also used as a backdrop for the James Bond movie ''License to Kill.''
      