
        John P. Keith, a former president of the Regional Plan Association, a nonprofit planning agency for the New York City metropolitan area, died Thursday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 78.
        The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Doris.
        Mr. Keith was president of the association from 1969 to 1989. Previously, he spent 10 years in the No. 2 job, as executive director.
        In his years at the association, Mr. Keith broadened its base of support, bringing in corporate backers and making it one of the most influential nonprofit planning groups in the nation.
        Among the major issues that the organization influenced in Mr. Keith's years there was the decade-long effort, starting in 1963, to prevent Breezy Point, New York City's last open strip of oceanfront, from becoming a high-rise home to 60,000 people. Instead, most of it became a public park and later part of the first national park in an urban area, Gateway National Recreation Area.
        Mr. Keith was also instrumental in preserving commuter rail service in the region by urging the establishment of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and New Jersey Transit.
        He also helped stop the construction of a fourth regional airport, near Flemington, N.J., and stimulated the development of downtown Stamford, Conn., and Metrotech, a multibuilding office complex, in downtown Brooklyn.
        ''He was not only the author of research reports, but he was the kind of leader who got things implemented,'' said Peter W. Herman, the current chairman of the Regional Plan Association.
        ''He also helped create a regional consciousness in the area through relentless speeches, articles and taking positions. He made people realize that what you do in New Jersey will affect New York, and what you do in New York will affect Connecticut. He was one of the true regionalists.''
        John Pirie Keith was born on May 17, 1921, in Windsor, Ontario. He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Arizona, a master's in public administration from Wayne State University and a doctorate from the Institute of Public Administration, where, from 1989 until his death, he worked as a senior associate. From 1956 to 1959, he was an assistant director for the American Society for Public Administration.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Keith is survived by a daughter, Janet Keith of Manhattan; a son, Alexander Keith of Elko, Nev.; and one grandchild.
      