
        Dr. John C. Lungren, former President Richard M. Nixon's longtime personal physician, died on Monday at Long Beach Memorial Hospital Medical Center in California, where he guided Nixon's care during a near-fatal illness in 1974. He was 83.
        Dr. Lungren was a specialist in internal medicine and cardiology and a former chief of staff at Long Beach Memorial.
        An early supporter of Nixon, he was the family's physician from 1952 and cared for Pat Nixon when she had a stroke in 1976.
        Dr. Lungren was thrust into the national spotlight in 1974 when, shortly after Nixon resigned the presidency, Nixon nearly died from complications of phlebitis, an inflammation of veins in his leg.
        Appearing at news conferences to give updates on Nixon's condition, Dr. Lungren was the man in the middle in a dispute over Nixon's ability to testify at the Watergate cover-up trial of his former aides, including H. R. Haldeman, John Ehrlichman, and John Mitchell, the former attorney general.
        At the time, many speculated that the former president was trying to avoid testifying. After Dr. Lungren said Nixon could not travel to Washington for up to three months because of phlebitis, Judge John J. Sirica, who presided over the trial, sent a panel of three doctors to determine his fitness to testify.
        Dr. Lungren said he understood the need but expressed displeasure that all three doctors were from Eastern medical centers and none from the West. The panel agreed that Nixon was not fit to travel for several weeks, and Judge Sirica said he could not wait.
        Nixon's brush with death came about two months after his resignation. He had developed phlebitis many years earlier and in a common way -- after a long flight. The 1974 flareup occurred during the waning weeks of his presidency. When the phlebitis worsened after his return to California as a private citizen, Dr. Lungren said he twice advised Nixon to enter a hospital for treatment. But Nixon delayed, saying, ''If I go into the hospital, I'll never come out alive.''
        His fear nearly came to be.
        In September, 45 days after resigning, Nixon relented and entered the hospital. A few days later, a piece of a clot that formed in the inflamed vein in his left leg broke off and traveled in the bloodstream to damage his right lung. After a two-week stay, Nixon went home.
        Three weeks later Nixon was back in the hospital. This time he nearly died when he went into shock from bleeding as a complication of an operation to prevent further damage from blood clots.
        Dr. Lungren kept Nixon's medical records in a safe that was doubly locked in his office a few steps from the hospital. In September 1972, during the height of the presidential campaign, the safe was rifled twice and Nixon's records were found on the office floor, with no evidence that any were missing. The Federal Bureau of Investigation concluded that someone had photocopied the records, but the case was never solved, Dr. Lungren's son John C. Jr. said yesterday.
        Mr. Lungren also said Nixon had given full legal permission ''and release from all medical ethical constraints'' to his father to write about his medical care and their friendship. Dr. Lungren used them to prepare a manuscript now being considered for publication, Mr. Lungren said.
        John Charles Lungren was born in Sioux City, Iowa, and went to school in Long Beach; his family moved there because his ailing father needed to live in a warm climate. After his father's death, Dr. Lungren returned to Sioux City where he finished high school. He graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1938. He later served as president of its alumni association and was a member of its board of trustees.
        Dr. Lungren received his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1942 and took further training at Los Angeles County Hospital. He then served in the Army in World War II and was an infantry battalion surgeon in the Normandy invasion in 1944. He was awarded four battle stars and a Purple Heart.
        Finding no positions available in Eastern hospitals after the war, Dr. Lungren joined Long Beach Memorial Medical Center in 1946 and stayed until he retired in 1987.
        Dr. Lungren was an only child. His friends and family said he was shy and guarded his privacy. Early in his career, he had a habit of taking sandwiches from home and eating them alone in his office. He reluctantly changed after his mother and wife told him he had to eat with colleagues in the hospital. But he was outspoken and forceful when confronting anything he thought was unethical or unjust, his son John said.
        Dr. Lungren met Nixon through his wife, the former Lorain Youngberg of Chicago and a former Powers model. A friend of hers, Helene Drown, taught school with Pat Nixon, and Mrs. Drown's husband, Jack, a Long Beach businessman, introduced Dr. Lungren to Nixon. A lifelong friendship developed.
        Dr. Lungren worked in Nixon's Senate campaign in 1950 and in the campaigns of Robert H. Finch, the former lieutenant governor of California and later Nixon's first secretary of health, education and welfare.
        At Mr. Drown's suggestion, Dr. Lungren became campaign physician for Nixon's 1952 vice-presidential bid and continued that role in his subsequent campaigns.
        In the 1960 campaign, when rumors circulated that Nixon's rival, John F. Kennedy, had Addison's disease -- an insufficency of hormones produced in the adrenal gland --  Nixon asked Dr. Lungren about the condition. According to his son, after Dr. Lungren explained it and said he believed the rumors, Nixon told him that it was ''too personal'' to use as a campaign issue. The rumors were proved correct many years after Kennedy's death.
        Dr. Lungren was a medical consultant to Nixon when he became president in 1969.
        Dr. Lungren did not want to be a White House physician because he had to support his wife and seven children, his son said.
        Another son, Daniel E. Lungren of Roseville, Calif., was a former congressman and attorney general of California. He was the Republican nominee for governor in 1998 but lost to Gray Davis.
        Other survivors include his wife, Lorain; a son, Brian F., of Squaw Valley, Calif.; four daughters, Christine Lungren-Maddalone of Long Beach, Loretta Lungren-Vestermark of Fishers, Ind., Patricia Lungren Partridge of Pasadena, and Elizabeth Lungren Bloom of Castaic, Calif; and 16 grandchildren.
      