
        Bill Daniels, a pioneer of the cable television industry, died Tuesday at a hospital in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 79.
        The cause of death was respiratory failure, said Dan Russo, a spokesman with Daniels & Associates in Denver.
        Mr. Daniels, who lived the last few years in Del Mar, Calif., built what he called a CATV, or community antenna television, system in Casper, Wyo., and Rawlings, Wyo., in 1952. It served communities otherwise unable to receive television because the broadcast stations were too far away or their signals were blocked by mountain ranges.
        While the Wyoming venture was not the first cable system in the nation, it was the first to relay a broadcast signal using microwave technology.
        He then developed several other cable systems, and in 1958 he founded Daniels & Associates, a cable television brokerage firm and investment bank.
        Mr. Daniels not only served rural residents with cable broadcasts but also provided programming that was exclusive to cable networks, so that they could compete in areas already served by broadcast television.
        He eventually owned hundreds of cable systems throughout the nation but sold them or merged them with United Artists Communications in the 1980's.
        In 1985, Mr. Daniels started Prime Ticket Network with the owner of the Los Angeles Lakers, Jerry Buss; he sold the network in 1994 to Tele-Communications Inc. The network later became part of Fox Sports.
        He also owned a basketball team in Salt Lake City; held a part-interest in the Los Angeles Lakers basketball team; founded the United States Football League, which is now defunct, and managed the career of the heavyweight boxer Ron Lyle. He sponsored a car at the Indianapolis 500 and in 1996 set a world speed record for business jets; his four-man crew piloted a Learjet around the globe, making nine refueling stops, at an average ground speed of 463.5 miles an hour.
        In 1974, Mr. Daniels ran unsuccessfully for the Republican gubernatorial nomination in Colorado.
        He was chosen in 1991 by Broadcasting magazine as one of the first 60 inductees into the Broadcasting Hall of Fame and in 1992 he was given a special Emmy Award from the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.
        His philanthropy included a $22 million gift to the University of Denver; the college of business there is named after him. In January, he pledged most of his $1.1 billion estate to send thousands of underprivileged students to college. He donated his $7 million mansion, called Cableland, to the City of Denver to use as a mayoral residence.
        Born on July 1, 1920, in Greeley, Colo., Mr. Daniels was graduated from the New Mexico Military Institute. He served in the Navy as a fighter pilot during World War II and the Korean War.
        He is survived by a brother, Jack Daniels of Albuquerque, N.M.
      