
        Noel Annan, an educator, historian and critic whose wide-ranging scholarly pursuits, military experience during World War II and powerful posts in universities and cultural institutions made him an influential member of the British intelligentsia for more than half a century, died on Feb. 21 in London. He was 83.
        A lifelong insider in the intellectual establishment, Lord Annan (he was given a life peerage by Prime Minister Harold Wilson in 1965) was the author of several books. They included a biography of Leslie Stephen, the literary critic and editor of the Dictionary of Literary Biography, who was Virginia Woolf's father, a work written in 1950 and revised in 1984. He also wrote ''Changing Enemies: the Defeat and Regeneration of Germany'' (1994), a memoir of his time as an intelligence officer during World War II and, for a year afterward, his role in establishing a new government in postwar Germany under Konrad Adenauer.
        Lord Annan was, as well, a critic with varied interests and a regular contributor to The New York Review of Books, where he published more than 100 essays on subjects from George Eliot to the Falklands War.
        ''He was a shrewd realist, but he did believe there was such as thing as the public good and in the possibility of the better world,'' said Robert Silvers, the editor of The New York Review of Books. ''And we thought he was a marvelous writer.''
        Known as an independent and usually progressive thinker on social and cultural issues, Lord Annan was a famous needler of conservative social policy. In 1970 he led a successful protest to keep the government of Edward Heath from allowing public museums to begin charging admissions. And yet he was not above giving credit where he found it due, praising Margaret Thatcher for the spine of her leadership, if not all of her policies.
        ''He was certainly no Thatcherite,'' said Donald Lamm, his editor at W. W. Norton, publisher of ''Changing Enemies.'' ''But he liked people with high brain wattage, and there were people associated with Thatcher who had that.''
        His 1990 book, ''Our Age: English Intellectuals Between the World Wars -- A Group Portrait,'' generally perceived as his most ambitious work, was a reflection on the class he belonged to, its grand promise, frequent greatness and ultimate failure to save Britain from the follies of its political leaders. Often anecdotal or aphoristically self-deprecating -- ''Every generation finds their own wit suddenly out of fashion and replaced by a society that seems coarser'' -- the book had a mixed reception. Its harsher critics found its disparagement of politicians too thorough. But as Denis Donoghue wrote in The New York Times Book Review, the book had a generous spirit that was characteristic of the man even when it ill served the writer.
        ''Annan does not remain lugubrious for long,'' Mr. Donoghue wrote. ''Vivacity keeps breaking in, urged on by good will and an opulent writing style. A man of the Enlightenment, a Liberal, a pluralist, he simply can't understand why his political masters so insistently make asses of themselves. But he avoids making moral judgments by treating every deplorable act as a symptom of error or madness.''
        Over the decades, Lord Annan served on many government commissions (including, in the 1970's, leading an inquiry into the future of British television) and on the boards of prominent cultural institutions, among them the British Museum. He was a director of the Royal Opera House and from 1980 to 1984 was the board chairman of the National Portrait Gallery.
        With all that, Lord Annan's primary career was as an academician. In 1956, at the age of 39, he became provost of King's College at Cambridge University, where he himself had been a student, and he went on to serve as provost at the University College, London and vice chancellor of the University of London. He was known as a charismatic leader, popular among students, and as an advocate of broadening curriculums, improving pedagogy and increasing student influence and liberty.
        ''He's as pure an example of the public intellectual as I could summon up,'' Mr. Lamm said.
        Noel Gilroy Annan was born on Christmas 1916. His father, James Gilroy Annan, was a businessman with connections to American railroad building; his mother, Fannie Quinn, was American, a New Yorker. He was educated in the British public school system, and his experience at one of those schools, Stowe, was a lifelong influence on his educational philosophy. The headmaster, J. F. Roxburgh, emphasized artistic and literary development, a loosening of the constraints of hidebound academic tradition and respect for individual liberty, qualities that were admiringly recollected in Lord Annan's 1964 book, ''Roxburgh of Stowe.''
        In a prologue to ''Changing Enemies,'' Lord Annan wrote about the serendipitous meeting that set his life on its eventual course. It was 1939 and he was having lunch at a private club with his father, who introduced him to another member, who set up his interview with the British intelligence service. The officer who interviewed him confused him with his father and presumed, mistakenly, he was an expert on railroads. And thus he was assigned to operational intelligence, monitoring the rail movements of German forces.
        ''A chance meeting, a quirk of fate, altered the direction of my life,'' he wrote. ''Fortune plays a part in most lives, and it certainly did in mine. When I look back on those days I think of that sentence in Tyndall's translation of the Bible: 'The Lord was with Joseph and he was a lucky fellow.' ''
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Gabriele Ullstein, and two daughters.
      