
        Daniel Abraham Yanofsky, Canada's first chess grandmaster, died on Sunday at Seven Oaks Hospital in Winnipeg, Manitoba. He was 74.
        His wife, Hilda, said the cause was cancer and congestive heart failure.
        Mr. Yanofsky, who was called Abe, was born in Brody, Poland, on March 26, 1925. His family moved to Canada when he was less than a year old.
        When he was 8 his father bought a chess set. The youngster quickly took to the game, gaining a local reputation as a prodigy. At age 11 he gave a simultaneous exhibition, playing 22 people at once. He won 17 games and lost five. At 12 he was champion of Manitoba and played in the national championship, placing fourth.
        At 14 he was picked to be Canada's No. 2 player in a chess Olympiad in Buenos Aires. Even though he was the youngest participant in the event, he scored 85 percent, attracting the notice of Alexander Alekhine, then the world champion.
        In 1941 Mr. Yanofsky won the Canadian championship for the first of eight times. In 1946 he defeated Mikhail Botvinnik in an individual game. Mr. Botvinnik was crowned world champion two years later. While studying law at Oxford University in the early 1950's, Mr. Yanofsky won the British championship.
        In 1964 Mr. Yanofsky was awarded the highest title in chess: international grandmaster.
        In addition to chess, Mr. Yanofsky had a successful career as a lawyer and politician. He was mayor of West Kildonan, a suburb of Winnipeg, before it was incorporated into the city in 1970. After that, he served on the City Council from 1970 to 1986.
        For his achievements, Mr. Yanofsky was awarded the Order of Canada in 1972.
        In addition to his wife, the former Hilda Gutnik, he is survived by his four children, Audrey Rubin, Dr. Rochelle Yanofsky, Heather Gordon and Andrew Wyatt, and by eight grandchildren.
        Samuel Reshevsky wrote in his book ''How Chess Games Are Won'' that Mr. Yanofsky was a tough opponent. ''His style is defensive but quite accurate,'' he wrote. ''When given the slightest opportunity, he is strong enough to beat the best.''
      