
        Joseph V. Terenzio, a New York City commissioner of hospitals under Mayor John V. Lindsay and a strong advocate of public health care for the poor, died on Tuesday in a nursing home in Miami. He was 82 and had been in ill health since suffering a stroke in 1993.
        Mr. Terenzio was the first nonphysician to hold the hospital commissioner's post. In announcing the appointment, Mr. Lindsay said, ''Mr. Terenzio is being asked to do whatever major surgery he has to do to get rid of inefficiency and waste.''
        Mr. Terenzio ran as many as 21 hospitals between 1966 and 1970 and was the architect of the Health and Hospitals Corporation, a public organization that now operates the city's hospitals. The corporation won passage in the State Legislature and the City Council in 1969, as part of a reorganization of the city's health services and hospital management.
        ''He ran the largest system in the world -- 21 hospitals -- and ran it well,'' said Sid Davidoff, a Manhattan lawyer who was an aide to Mayor Lindsay.
        After serving as commissioner of the Health and Hospitals Corporation for several months, Mr. Terenzio resigned to become president of Evanston Hospital in Illinois. But in 1972 he returned to New York to take over the presidency of the United Hospital Fund, a health research and philanthropic organization. He held the post until 1983.
        The current president of the fund, James R. Tallon, was chairman of the New York State Assembly health committee when Mr. Terenzio, as president of the fund, was an advocate of nonprofit hospitals. ''He was one of the most powerful voices advocating support for voluntary hospitals and providing health care for the poor in New York,'' Mr. Tallon said. ''He was a person of great tenacity for programs for people who are too poor to pay for themselves.''
        Mr. Terenzio held a bachelor's degree, a law degree and a master's degree in hospital administration. The child of an Italian family of modest means, he worked his way through Yale as a Fuller Brush salesman and a waiter in the university's student dining rooms, his son, John, said. After graduating, Mr. Terenzio spent five years in the Navy and saw combat in the Pacific and North Atlantic.
        Before becoming commissioner of hospitals, Mr. Terenzio practiced law in New Haven, and was executive director of Brooklyn Hospital and of Knickerbocker Hospital, which is now defunct.
        In addition to John, of Los Angeles, he is survived by two daughters, Mary Louise Shafer of Manhattan and Joanne Blakemore of Singapore;  and six grandchildren. His wife of 51 years, the former Marie Cozzolino, died in 1996.
      