
        Thomas G. Butson, a former editor at The New York Times and other newspapers who went on to become part owner and editor of The Villager, a community newspaper in Greenwich Village, died on Monday in Brooklyn. He was 68 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was pneumonia, his wife, Elizabeth, said.
        He began his journalism career at 17 in his native New Zealand and, by 28, was assistant managing editor of The Toronto Star. After joining The Times in 1968, he wrote books in his spare time, including the first English-language biography of Mikhail S. Gorbachev, which was published on the day Mr. Gorbachev assumed power in 1985.
        He also wrote a biography of Marshal Mikhail N. Tukhachevsky, Lenin's youngest general in the Bolshevik revolution, who was killed under Stalin. Called ''The Czar's Lieutenant, the Soviet Marshal,'' it was published by Praeger in 1984.
        He retired from The Times in 1992, three years after receiving a diagnosis of bone marrow cancer. He and his wife, the former Elizabeth Margaritas, who was an advertising executive, then bought The Villager, a money-losing weekly paper that usually had 8 to 12 pages. Under their ownership, it grew to 32 pages, including an arts section, and began to show a profit.
        Last October, because of Mr. Butson's deteriorating health, they sold The Villager and another Lower Manhattan newspaper, The Downtown Express, which they bought in 1995.
        At The Villager, Mr. Butson brought journalistic ambition to a paper that had previously been more of a shopper. In 1996, he published a 12-page investigative report on the local school board, which his wife, the publisher and business manager, noted did not exactly bring in more revenue.
        Thomas Gordon Butson was born on New Zealand's South Island, to a farming family. His first job was at The Truth, which he later described as ''a political scandal sheet.'' He went to England to find a job on a daily newspaper, but could not, so he emigrated to Canada, where he worked for a succession of papers, including The Toronto Star.
        He and his wife moved to New York in 1968. He accepted a job at The Times as an editor of the Week in Review, and moved on to other Sunday sections, including Arts & Leisure and Travel. He then worked as an editor on the foreign desk and on the news desk, which oversees news selection and presentation.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Butson is survived by their son, Alex, of Manhattan, and two sons and a daughter from a previous marriage, Miles, of Hamilton, Ontario; Thomas Jr., of Montgomery, N.Y., and Jennifer, of San Francisco.
      