
        Bobb McKittrick, who helped the San Francisco 49ers win five Super Bowls in his two decades as one of the National Football League's premier offensive-line coaches, died yesterday at Stanford (Calif.) University Medical Center. He was 64.
        McKittrick had been suffering from cancer of the bile duct. Last spring, doctors canceled a liver transplant after exploratory surgery showed the cancer had spread to the abdomen. McKittrick's on-field coaching duties were assumed by Pat Morris last season, but McKittrick continued to be involved with the 49ers.
        Year after year, working with comparatively smaller linemen like Harris Barton, Guy McIntyre and Jesse Sapolu, McKittrick taught blocking techniques that protected Joe Montana and Steve Young, the 49ers' all-pro quarterbacks.
        ''He has developed more offensive-line knowledge than anyone, ever,'' Bill Walsh, one of McKittrick's head coaches, once said. ''His men have played longer, with better technique, more production, fewer injuries. In every possible category you can measure, he's right at the top.''
        Sports Illustrated said McKittrick ''may be the most successful position coach of his era'' since ''few coaches have done so much with so little.''
        With McKittrick coaching their offensive line, the 49ers won the Super Bowl in 1982, 1985, 1989, 1990 and 1995.
        McKittrick was untypical in many ways. In seventh grade in Baker, Ore., where he was born and raised, he changed the spelling of Bob to Bobb because ''I just wanted to be different.'' He was a high school valedictorian and an honor student at Oregon State, where he played guard for the football team.
        He never played pro football. After three years in the Marine Corps, he was an assistant coach for Oregon State (1961-64), U.C.L.A. (1965-70), the Los Angeles Rams (1971-72) and the San Diego Chargers (1974-78) before joining the 49ers in 1979.
        He was a stocky man with a shaved head and Spartan outlook. Even on the coldest days, he wore a T-shirt and shorts to practice. For a 1989 playoff game in Chicago, where the wind-chill factor sank to minus 47 degrees, he made a major concession. He wore a windbreaker.
        The toughness extended to his illness. In June 1999, eight days after doctors found McKittrick's cancer had spread, he returned to the team for a minicamp, coaching from a golf cart. He said then: ''I feel like Bob Hope or one of those entertainers that gets to be 90 years old and really they're not very well, and all of a sudden someone puts a microphone in front of them and they perform.''
        He remained upbeat.
        ''It won't cure something,'' he said, ''but if you stay positive and keep charging hard, it's the best answer you can do. The doctor said, 'I wouldn't change any plan that you've got because of what's wrong. You just go like you're going to live forever, and if something happens we'll work on it at that time.' ''
        The 49ers' head coach, Steve Mariucci, had said that McKittrick was a source of emotional strength for his players by remaining with the team last year. The 49ers honored McKittrick with a halftime tribute during a home game against the Tennessee Titans.
        McKittrick, who lived in San Mateo, Calif., is survived by his wife, Teckla; two sons, Mike and Ladd, and two grandchildren.
        In a business in which job changes are frequent, he was a constant. He said football was his life.
        ''I don't play golf, don't ski, don't hunt, don't play tennis,'' he once said. ''I coach football. And I like it.''
      