
        Archibald W. Stiles, the little boy who had no toys but grew up to become Santa Claus -- and run an eccentric antiques business that let growing children exchange their old ice skates for somebody else's bigger ones -- died Tuesday at a New Jersey convalescent home. He was 89.
        Mr. Stiles, who had a long, flowing beard and white hair, lived what was, by all accounts, a magical life. Neighbors came to treasure the sight of him and his wife, Emma, taking their weekly two-hour rides in an old-fashioned horse-drawn carriage from their home and shop in Meyersville, a hamlet on the outskirts of Chatham Township in southern Morris County, N.J.
        At Christmas time, they would put on cherry-red costumes to be Mr. and Mrs. Claus. Holly the horse would draw their sleigh to visit schools and hospitals, and their herd of pet deer (alas, Virginia, white-tailed, not reindeer), sometimes as many as a dozen, frisked merrily behind.
        ''Over the years, he just grew to look more and more like Santa,'' Mrs. Stiles said.
        Their store, Archie's Resale Shop, resembles an elves' warehouse. Enclosed within six sheds, pretty much collapsing on one another, it telegraphs the possibility of serendipitous treasure, the lure that draws millions of Americans to flea markets. In recent years, foreigners eager to buy a piece of Americana have been turning up at the shop with astonishing frequency.
        And why not? A Bing Crosby 45-r.p.m. record for 50 cents here; a stained-glass window for $200 there; a one-of-a-kind horseshoe chair, handmade by a blacksmith using 90 horseshoes, a steal at $1,200.
        Amid the thousands of hub caps and license plates, there are even things on display that are solemnly declared not for sale -- except perhaps for the right price. These include collections of 1940's dolls, rocking horses and 20 horse-drawn sleighs, not to mention the immense grouping of stuffed rabbits, each wearing a swimsuit and sunglasses and holding an umbrella.
        And, boy, could Mr. Stiles sell his odd wares. A 1992 article in The New York Times pictures him pointing and saying, ''Look at that elephant over there -- came from a circus that couldn't afford a real one, only one of them in the world, made in the 1930's -- watch her eyes blink and her stomach move.''
        He put it this way: ''It's all here to give people's eyeballs an education. I tell people to take three steps forward and then back up two to see what they missed.''
        But everyone would notice the pet farm. Over the years, residents have included peacocks, ferrets, ducks, wild turkeys, rabbits, geese, turkeys, cats and a raccoon named Rebel. Charlie, the crow, could bark like a dog. Well, almost: he could not pronounce the letter B, so it came out ''wow, wow.''
        As for the deer, Mr. Stiles had wanted since childhood to have at least one. In the mid-1950's, he paid a $150 fee to the state to take whatever the wildlife authorities would give him. He got a buck and a doe, and  since then, had something like three dozen in all.
        Mr. Stiles was born in Westfield, N.J., and never had toys as a child. He once speculated that that was the reason he was driven to acquire 60 life-size dolls and 160 teddy bears as an adult.
        He ran away from home at 13, his son, George, said. He worked as a carpenter and in a metals factory, where melting magnesium left holes in his skin that remained for the rest of his life. By the early 1950's, he owned a luncheonette in Berkeley Heights, N.J., the town where he died in the convalescent home.
        In the 1950's, he met and married Emma Newman, who ran a family-owned boarding house in Meyersville. They immediately began to collect junk, setting the used bathroom fixtures, wagon wheels and the rest of it in the muddy front yard of the boarding house. In 1956, the boarding house became Archie's Resale Shop, looking exactly like what it was, a glorified junk shop.
        One winter in the late 1950's, when one manufacturer of ice skates had suffered a fire and another a strike, skates were hard to find. The Stileses, both of whom loved to skate, bought as many used skates as they could find. They invited others to trade in skates that no longer fit, charging $1 per trade, a figure that has now risen to $5.
        Mr. Stiles donated time and merchandise to local charities, particularly the Meyersville Grange, Chapter 188. His antique clothing collection was displayed annually in the town's Mayfair Parade; Mr. Stiles took part dressed as an organ grinder with his pet monkey.
        In addition to his wife and his son, who lives in Long Valley, N.J., Mr. Stiles is survived by a brother, Donald, of Westfield, N.J.
        The shop will survive him, too.
        Charles Osgood, the CBS radio raconteur, once said the tale of Archie Stiles was his favorite of all the stories he had reported. He came to Meyersville to report on the skate trade-ins, then discovered a fantastical world of striped barber poles, deer and a ruddy-faced fellow with a white beard.
        ''Most of the speculation had the operation headquartered farther north,'' he told the nation. ''Much farther north.''
      