
        Larry Bearnarth, the Mets' top relief pitcher in their lowly early years and later a pitching coach for the Montreal Expos and the Colorado Rockies in a baseball career spanning more than three decades, died Saturday at St. Anthony's Hospital in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 58.
        He had a heart attack at his home in St. Petersburg, his family said.
        Bearnarth joined the Mets in 1963, when they were coming off an inaugural season in which they lost a major league-record 120 games. As a rookie, he pitched for a team that featured the likes of Marvelous Marv Throneberry, Choo Choo Coleman and Hot Rod Kanehl, and that lost 111 games. But Bearnarth's first year in the majors would be his best.
        Relying on an outstanding sinker, Bearnarth appeared in 58 games, 56 in relief, with a 3.42 earned run average. He pitched in 171 games for the Mets between 1963 and 1966 and was with the Milwaukee Brewers briefly in 1971.
        Bearnarth was known as the Bear, playing off his name and his reputation as an aggressive pitcher. But when Manager Casey Stengel summoned the right-hander in relief, that sobriquet fell victim to Stengel's penchant for botching names.
        ''He would call down to the bullpen for a relief pitcher and I would hear him tell the pitching coach, 'Get Big Ben ready,' '' Bearnarth once recalled. ''Once I realized that was the way Casey was with everybody, it no longer bothered me.''
        Bearnarth grew up on Staten Island and pitched three years for St. John's, playing on the team that went to the College World Series in 1960. Jack Kaiser, his college coach, remembered that he did not throw especially hard but ''you could see how competitive he was.''
        One day in Bearnarth's rookie season, Stengel, mangling his nickname again, told the Bear, ''Ben, you're going to be a great coach.''
        Bearnarth was a major league pitching coach, a minor league manager and instructor, and most recently a scout for the Tigers.
        As the pitching coach for the Expos, in 1976 and from 1985 to 1991, and for the Rockies, from 1993 to 1995, he preached an aggressive approach. ''You challenge the hitters when you come in as a relief pitcher,'' he said. ''You can't give in to the batter or pitch around batters.''
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara; a son, Larry Jr., of St. Petersburg; two daughters, Kristin Bearnarth, of Denver, and Karin Penegor, of Breckenridge, Colo.; two sisters, Veronica Pray, of Vincentown, N.J., and Virginia Nicotra, of Staten Island, and four grandchildren.
      