
        Morris B. Abram, a small-town boy from Georgia who went on to play a role in the civil rights movement, become a leader of the American Jewish community, serve as president of Brandeis University and fill posts on a variety of commissions and panels under five presidents, died yesterday at a hospital in Geneva. He was 81.
        The cause was a sudden viral infection, said Pranay Gupte, a family friend.
        At his death Mr. Abram, who lived in Geneva, was chairman of U.N. Watch, an organization affiliated with the World Jewish Congress that he founded in 1993 with Edgar M. Bronfman, the businessman and philanthropist. Mr. Abram was also of counsel to the New York law firm of  Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, where he had been a partner for many years.
        In 1973, Mr. Abram was told he had  acute myelocytic leukemia. His fight against the disease impelled him to write an autobiography, ''The Day is Short,'' in 1982.
        Mr. Abram was a young lawyer in Atlanta specializing in railroad cases in 1949 when he began a 14-year struggle to overturn a Georgia electoral rule that gave disproportionate weight in primary elections to ballots cast in predominantly white rural areas at the expense of those cast by urban blacks. The rule perpetuated segregation in Georgia.
        Mr. Abram felt the sting of the rule in 1953 when he sought the Democratic nomination for Congress from the Fifth District. He ran on a platform that urged the desegregation of schools and carried populous Fulton County, which includes Atlanta. But he lost two smaller rural counties that had disproportionate weight under the rule and lost the election.
        Over the years Mr. Abram helped bring cases against the rule to the United States Supreme Court. On March 18, 1963, Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy, who had been briefed by Mr. Abram, argued the case before the Supreme Court. In a historic ruling, the court declared the rule unconstitutional because ''within a given constituency there can be room for but one constitutional rule -- one voter, one vote.''
        It was the most notable of Mr. Abram's victories in the civil rights struggle. He also helped to start the first large, middle-income housing project open to black families in Atlanta. And defending civil rights workers in Georgia in 1963, he won decisions that helped overturn the state's insurrection and illegal assembly laws, which had been used against civil rights demonstrators.
        Mr. Abram's career in public service began when President John F. Kennedy named him the first general counsel to the Peace Corps in 1961. President Lyndon B. Johnson made him United States representative to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, co-chairman of the Planning Committee of the White House Conference on Civil Rights and a member of the Committee on the Office of Economic Opportunity.
        President Jimmy Carter appointed him chairman of the President's Commission for the Study of the Ethical Problems of Medicine. He also served President Ronald Reagan as  vice-chairman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights. President George Bush designated him United States Permanent Representative to the United Nations in Geneva.
        Mr. Abram led the Moreland Act Commission, which in 1975 investigated corruption in the nursing home industry in New York. The commission's recommendations led to a number of changes, among them the closing of 68 nursing homes that did not comply with fire-safety codes.
        Morris Berthold Abram was born on June 19, 1918, in Fitzgerald, Ga., a small railroad town founded by Northern veterans of the Civil War.  He was one of four children born to  Sam Abram, a harness maker and storekeeper born in Romania, and the former Irene Cohen, the daughter of a doctor and a granddaughter of Rabbi Elias Eppstein, one of the first Reform rabbis in the United States.
        After graduating summa cum laude from the University of Georgia in 1938, Mr. Abram was chosen as a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, but Britain entered World War II before he could attend. Instead, Mr. Abram entered the University of Chicago Law School, graduating in 1940.
        After the war, in which he served as an Army Air Corps public relations officer, he attended Oxford, receiving a bachelor's degree in 1948 and a master's degree in 1953. In a summer recess at Oxford, a professor arranged for Mr. Abram to join the staff of prosecutors at the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg.
        Horrified by what he learned about the Holocaust, he regarded the experience as a turning point. He was national president of the American Jewish Committee from 1963 to 1968; chairman of the National Conference on Soviet Jewry from 1983 to 1988; and chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major Jewish Organizations from 1986 to 1989. He also helped to organize a demonstration of 200,000 people on the Mall in Washington protesting the refusal of the Soviet Union to permit Jews to emigrate to Israel and the West.
        In 1963 he and his family moved to New York, where he joined the law firm of Paul, Weiss. Five years later  he was named president of Brandeis, the nonsectarian university founded in 1948 under Jewish auspices in Waltham, Mass. He later wrote, ''Part of me, it seemed, had done nothing for years except compile the right sort of resume for the job.''
        But two years later he resigned the post amid turmoil and bitterness.
        His inauguration was attended by Coretta Scott King, Bayard Rustin  and other figures from the civil rights movement. But soon after, many students and faculty members demanded that the university oppose the war in Vietnam and create housing for the poor, among other demands.
        Mr. Abram would have none of it, insisting that ''the university as an institution should stay out of politics.''
        He later acknowledged having made mistakes, like dismissing what he considered an insubstantial proposal for a black studies program with the insensitive remark, ''I do not wish to preside over a university of superficialities.''
        On another occasion, when a group of students asked to be shown the university's investment portfolio to see whether it was ''tainted,'' he said, jokingly, that Brandeis's endowment, compared with those of other major American universities, ''taint enough.''
        The students were not amused. Soon, Mr. Abram recalled, they began to ignore his greetings and many on campus would go out of their way to avoid him.
        In January 1969, 65 African-American students occupied Ford Hall. Unlike the administrators of Harvard and Columbia when faced with similar takeovers, Mr. Abram would not  call in the police. After 11 days, the students drifted away, and Mr. Abram earned praise in some quarters for his restraint. But Mr. Abram lost whatever credit he earned among many on campus when he tried to punish those responsible for the takeover. This effort was thwarted by the Brandeis board, faculty and disciplinary committees.
        Mr. Abram's presidency was fatally wounded. He resigned in 1970 and returned to Paul, Weiss. For the next nine years, he also was chairman of the United Negro College Fund, which raises money for predominantly black colleges and universities.
        Mr. Abram's experience at Brandeis hardened his views, and he became a vigorous opponent of affirmative action. This came to the attention of President Reagan, and Mr. Abram was nominated to the United States Commission on Civil Rights in 1983. The nomination was opposed by some prominent blacks who considered him ''not committed to equal opportunity,'' which pained Mr. Abram.
        He wrote about it in his autobiography: ''Liberalism for me means that, while men differ in their natural endowments, they must be treated as equal citizens in the eyes of the law; that they should possess equality of opportunity and be afforded some minimum of social benefits. These principles, which united American liberals for generations, now divide me from some who seek equality of result and who sanction the preferences imposed by government to attain it.''
        Mr. Abram, who once considered himself a liberal Democrat, said he never voted for a Democrat for president after Jimmy Carter.
        During his career, he was president of the Field Foundation from 1965 to 1982; a board member of the Twentieth Century Fund from 1959 until his death; and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Mr. Abram's marriage to the former Jane Isabella Maguire ended in divorce in 1974 and a second marriage, to Carlyn Feldman Fisher, ended in divorce in 1987. He is survived by his wife, the former Bruna Molina, whom he married in 1990; two daughters, Ann Abram of Westport, Conn., and Ruth J. Abram of Manhattan, who is president of the Lower East Side Tenement Museum.
        Also surviving are three sons, Morris Berthold Jr., of Los Angeles, J. Adam, of Chapel Hill, N.C., and Joshua A., of Manhattan; a stepson, Martin Molina of Zurich; a stepdaughter, Gabriela Molina of Cambridge, England; a sister, Ruthann Reis of Washington; a brother, Dr. Lewis Abram of Boca Raton, Fla., and nine grandchildren.
      