
        Richard Hodgson, an engineer and executive who did early development work in radar and television and played a role in the events that led to the creation of Silicon Valley, died on March 4 in Barbados. He was 83.
        He died of injuries from an automobile accident, a daughter, Brooke D. Hodgson, said.
        While an executive vice president at the Fairchild Camera and Instrument Corporation, Mr. Hodgson oversaw the creation of the company's semiconductor division in 1957, when a group of scientists and engineers who had left Shockley Semiconductor approached Fairchild for financial backing.
        Sherman Fairchild, the company's founder, met with the group, which had already approached 30 companies. He told Mr. Hodgson to establish Fairchild Semiconductor as a division based in Mountain View, Calif. Mr. Hodgson, who had held engineering positions in radar, nuclear reactors and television displays, would oversee the new division.
        Fairchild Semiconductor pioneered the semiconductor integrated circuit, a crucial component in early government weapons and space programs. Semiconductors were later to become the crucial component of computers and industrial systems.
        Mr. Hodgson was born in a mining camp in Anyox, British Columbia, on Jan. 7, 1917. He studied mechanical engineering at Stanford University, graduating in 1937, and received a master's in business administration from Harvard in 1939.
        He went to work for the Standard Oil Company of California as a refinery engineer, and in 1941 began work as an aircraft design engineer at Lockheed. Two years later, he became a research engineer at the radiation laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he helped develop airborne and ground microwave radar systems. In 1946, he became director of engineering management on designs for nuclear reactors and instrument systems for the Atomic Energy Commission in Brookhaven, N.Y.
        In 1947, a television laboratory company he founded did work that led to technology for the Trinitron color TV monitor, which was licensed to the Sony Corporation.
        Mr. Hodgson later became chief executive at Fairchild. It was his departure that served as an impetus to Robert Noyce and Gordon Moore to also leave and found the Intel Corporation. Mr. Hodgson became an original investor in Intel and soon joined its board. ''He was a phenomenal director,'' Mr. Moore remarked. ''If we had listened to him, we never would have entered the consumer digital watch business.'' Intel briefly entered the watch business, withdrawing with large losses.
        From 1950 to 1968, Mr. Hodgson held a range of positions at Fairchild Camera and Instrument, tutoring the eight original founders of Fairchild Semiconductor in business skills.
        From 1968 to 1980, he worked for the ITT Corporation, where he became a senior vice president.
        A longtime resident of New Canaan, Conn., he was active in local politics, serving two terms as head of the Democratic Town Committee.
        Besides his daughter Brooke, he is survived by his wife, Geraldine Reed Hodgson, of New Canaan; two sons, Philip R. Hodgson, of Aspen, Colo., and Peter J. Hodgson, of Westport, Conn.; and another daughter, Morgan D. Hodgson, of Washington, D.C.
      