
        Sonny Hine, who owned and trained Skip Away, the Horse of the Year in 1998 and one of racing's stars of modern times, died Friday at a hospital in Miami. He was 69.
        Hialeah racing officials reported that Hine died of complications from pneumonia. He had been suffering from cancer since 1996.
        Sonny Hine led a life with adventurous twists that included two years as a fingerprint specialist with the F.B.I. and a stint as a State Department investigator in Hong Kong during the Korean War. He was fluent in the Mandarin dialect of Chinese, which he had studied in an Air Force language school, enabling him to intercept and translate messages.
        ''They needed someone with an investigative background who could speak Chinese,'' Hine said. ''I was very reluctant to go, but the money was good.''
        But the abiding passion of his career was the horses he trained, and none stood higher than Skip Away, who was nominally owned by Hine's wife of 37 years, Carolyn, who accompanied him regularly on their racing travels. The gray colt earned $9.6 million, second only to the $10 million won by his great rival, Cigar.
        In the Jockey Club Gold Cup in 1996, Skip Away defeated Cigar and came back to win the race again the next year, starting a nine-race winning streak that ended when he ran third in the Gold Cup in 1998. Along the way, he also won the Pimlico Special, Hollywood Gold Cup, Woodward Stakes and Donn Handicap.
        In the second start of his winning streak, Skip Away was entered in the Breeders' Cup Classic after Hine paid $480,000 as a supplemental fee because the horse had not been nominated. It was a significant gamble, but Skip Away redeemed his owner's faith by winning the Classic by six lengths in record time of 1:59.
        But despite his durability and dramatic performances, Skip Away ran second to Cigar in the voting for Horse of the Year and again ran second in 1997, that time to the juvenile star Favorite Trick.
        He won the title Horse of the Year in 1998 at the age of 5.
        ''He won nine in a row, including seven Grade I's,'' Hine said with some bitterness after Skip Away was finally honored. ''He stayed in training for months on end. What more could he do?''
        And Carolyn Hine, who considered Skip Away a member of the family, said with feeling: ''If he hadn't won, I would have been numb. This horse deserves all the accolades.''
        Hubert (Sonny) Hine was born in the Bronx, but was intrigued with horses at a young age. He and his brother Marvin rode horses in match races at fairground meetings and, Hine remembered: ''My father trained horses, but he had to make a living doing other things. Training horses was his dream, and I guess that's where I got my interest.''
        The night he graduated from high school, Sonny Hine hitchhiked to Charles Town race track in West Virginia and, he said, ''I've been on and off the race track ever since.''
        He saddled his first winner, Miss Economy, at Marlboro Race Course in 1948 but then interrupted his career to work for his friend J. Edgar Hoover, director of the F.B.I. He left the bureau in 1950 and, four years later, went to work for the State Department in Hong Kong. Between jobs, he attended college, served in the Air Force and kept his hand in the training of horses.
        In addition to Skip Away, he trained Technology; Norquestor; Dawn Quixote; Amber Pass; Best Bet; Cojak; Guilty Conscience, the champion sprinter of 1981, and Skip Trial, the sire of Skip Away.
      