
        Bertrand Fox, an economist and expert on the securities industry who taught for more than 20 years at the Harvard Business School, died Tuesday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 92.
        Mr. Fox, who lived in Lexington for 45 years, was the business school's director of research from 1953 to 1968.
        During that time, he redirected the school's research, which had relied almost exclusively on case studies, toward more systematic analysis, said J. Keith Butters, who was a close friend and fellow member of the school's faculty.
        ''That was a very ticklish assignment because it involved challenging a lot of vested practices,'' Mr. Butters said. Mr. Fox managed it by ''being tactful and absolutely fair and careful in everything that he did,'' Mr. Butters said.
        Drawing on expertise he developed as an adviser to a group of investment banks that the federal government sued unsuccessfully on antitrust grounds, Mr. Fox later reintroduced investment banking to the Harvard curriculum. In 1967, he became the first person to hold the Jacob H. Schiff Chair of Investment Banking; 12 year earlier, he had been the first to hold the Edsel B. Ford Chair of Business Administration.
        In 1984, 10 years after he retired from its faculty, Harvard Business School gave Mr. Fox its Distinguished Service Award. After leaving Harvard, Mr. Fox worked as a consultant with the Cambridge Research Institute until he retired in 1978.
        Mr. Fox, who was born in Wisconsin, studied mathematics and astronomy at Northwestern University, where he was a quarterback on the football team and a member of the track team. He went on to earn a doctorate in economics at Harvard, then taught economics at Williams College.
        During World War II, Mr. Fox was director of the Military Requirements Division of the War Production Board. In that role, he helped the United States government decide how to allocate resources between the war effort and the domestic economy. From 1958 to 1962, he was director of research for the United States Commission on Money and Credit.
        He is survived by his wife, Patricia; a sister, Gertrude Tuttle, of Tacoma, Wash.; four sons, Philip of Grosse Pointe, Mich., Thomas of Washington, Kenneth of Englewood, Colo., and Peter of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Ann Gulbransen of Sharon Center, Ohio, and Joan Fox-Bow of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; and eight grandchildren.
      