
        Leonard Weisgard, a children's book illustrator who won the Caldecott Medal in 1947 for ''The Little Island,'' written by his friend Margaret Wise Brown under the pseudonym Golden MacDonald, died on Jan. 14 at his home in Glumso, Denmark. He was 83.
        Mr. Weisgard was born in New Haven, attended Pratt Institute for two years and studied dance with Martha Graham before becoming a window dresser at Macy's.
        His successful and productive collaboration with Brown began with the very popular ''Noisy Books'' series (1939), published by W. R. Scott, which urged readers to imitate sounds: dogs, trucks, jackhammers. They both worked quickly. At lunch one day they discussed Mr. Weisgard's childhood memory of street sounds in London. The next day she presented him with a draft of the text, and he completed the illustrations four days later. They showed the book to children attending the Bank Street School, where Brown was a member of the Writers Laboratory, and it was published shortly thereafter.
        Mr. Weisgard was also a close friend of Clement Hurd, the other illustrator most closely identified with Brown's books for young children. Hurd's essay honoring Mr. Weisgard when he won the Caldecott Medal describes the dinner party Mr. Weisgard gave to unveil the paintings for ''The Little Island.'' His images of a rock outcropping near Vinalhaven, Me., the island where Brown had a cottage they all visited, perfectly captured what her biographer, Leonard Marcus, called ''a poet's notations of seasonal change.''
        Mr. Weisgard and his wife, Phyllis, who were serious collectors of American folk art, sold their collection and left Connecticut in 1969. They settled in a 17th-century Danish farmhouse in a rural area not far from Copenhagen that looked remarkably like the countryside they had left. Mr. Weisgard studied Danish and began a new collection of modern Danish painting and folk art.
        Mr. Weisgard collaborated with other children's book writers and wrote books he illustrated himself. In the 1950's he also designed the stage sets and costumes for several productions of the San Francisco Ballet, including ''The Dryad'' and ''The Nutcracker.''
        Mr. Weisgard's wife died in 1991. He is survived by three children, Abigail, Christina and Ethan, and two grandchildren.
      