
        Lucas Hoving, a choreographer and modern dancer who performed with the Jose Limon Dance Company from 1949 to 1963, died yesterday at his home in San Francisco. He was 87.
        Mr. Hoving was a quietly imposing figure on the stage, a gifted actor and serenely humanistic performer who infused his roles with a craggy, sinuous dramatic power. As a choreographer, Mr. Hoving was best known for ''Icarus,'' a modern dance classic created in 1964 for his own company  and performed by troupes that included the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. A spare yet glittering work inspired by the Greek legend of Icarus and his desire to fly, the dance portrays an arrogant young man, the lethally tantalizing sun that draws him near, and the man's troubled father, played by Mr. Hoving with poignant solemnity.
        Another landmark of his long career in dance was ''Growing Up in Public,'' a popular biographical piece created for Mr. Hoving in 1984 by Remy Charlip, in which Mr. Hoving vividly re-enacted scenes from his life in a subtly modulated flow of memories. Mr. Hoving also played the kindly old doctor in ''Book of Days,'' a 1989 film by Meredith Monk.
        Born Lucas Hovinga in Groningen, the Netherlands, he studied with Yvonne Georgi and, in England, with Kurt Jooss, with whom he danced in roles that included the Standard Bearer in the Jooss classic ''The Green Table.'' He left for the United States in the mid-1940's and danced with the companies of Martha Graham and Valerie Bettis, also appearing in Broadway musicals choreographed by Bettis, Agnes de Mille and Catherine Littlefield.
        Mr. Hoving joined the Jose Limon Dance Company in 1949 and performed with the company to 1963, becoming a major interpreter of Limon's choreography. He created the roles of Iago in ''The Moor's Pavane'' and the White Man in ''The Emperor Jones,'' as well as the Conquistador in ''La Malinche'' and the ''Time to Keep Silence'' solo in ''There Is a Time.'' Mr. Hoving was also in the original casts of ''Night Spell'' and ''Ruins and Visions,'' both by Doris Humphrey.
        He formed his own troupe in 1961, choreographing pieces that included ''Songs for a Distant Land'' and ''Landscape With Clouds.'' His dances have been performed by Bat- Dor in Israel, the Cullberg Ballet in Sweden, Les Grands Ballets Canadiens, the Ballet Nacional of Mexico City, and the Limon company.
        Mr. Hoving also served as the artistic adviser of the Limon troupe in the early 1980's and taught modern dance in schools and universities that included the High School of Performing Arts, the Juilliard School and the American Dance Festival. He directed the Rotterdam Dance Academy in the Netherlands from 1971 to 1978 and was supervisor of dance education for the Dutch government through 1979.
        Mr. Hoving's wife, Lavina Nielsen,  died in 1988. No immediate family members survive.
        Referring to Mr. Hoving's performance as the Christlike leader in ''The Traitor,'' a work by Limon, Walter Terry wrote in The New York Herald Tribune in 1954 that Mr. Hoving danced the role ''with a dignity that was never drab, never self-righteous but at all times vital, urgent, commanding.''
        The role was an uncharacteristic one for Mr. Hoving. ''Jose always cast me as the villain,'' Mr. Hoving said in a 1988 interview. ''His psyche was always suffering onstage, and then I had to come and make it worse.''
      