
        Rex Everhart, a character actor who appeared in 26 Broadway productions ranging from ''1776,'' in which he played Ben Franklin, to ''Working,'' for which he received a Tony Award nomination, died last Monday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 79.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Claire Richard Everhart.
        Mr. Everhart, who started his theater career in 1939, worked in regional and repertory theaters including the Phoenix Theater, Yale Repertory Theater and seven seasons at The American Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn.
        Reviewing the Shakespeare Theater's production of ''The Comedy of Errors'' in The New York Times in  1963, Howard Taubman wrote, ''Rex Everhart handles the two Dromios with unfailing comic gusto.'' And in 1964, reviewing ''Much Ado About Nothing,'' Mr. Taubman said that as the constable Mr. Everhart ''somehow pries a grin out of us even when we know every simple-minded joke that is coming.''
        The actor's television career, which started back in days of live broadcasting, included series, plays, films, soap operas and commercials. Appearing in 16 feature films, Mr. Everhart was most recently the voice of Maurice in the Disney movie ''Beauty and the Beast.'' Having made his 1955 Broadway debut in ''No Time for Sergeants,'' Mr. Everhart's other Broadway shows included ''Anything Goes,'' ''Rags'' and ''Woman of the Year.
        Mr. Everhart was born in Wateska, Ill., and received a degree in theater at the Pasadena Playhouse and bachelor's and master's degrees at New York University. He lived for 37 years in Westport, Conn.
        Mr. Everhart and his wife, also an actress, met in 1960 when they were in the Broadway musical ''Tenderloin.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Everhart is survived by his daughter, Degan, of Baltimore, and a granddaughter.
        Correction:  March 29, 2000, Wednesday  An obituary of the actor Rex Everhart on March 20 misspelled the name of his birthplace. It is Watseka, Ill., not Wateska.
      