
        J. Russell King, a deputy news editor of The New York Times who sharpened the prose of reporters, the precision of headlines and the meaning of news for readers with a learned, subtle and anonymous hand, died on Saturday night at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 45 and lived in Manhattan and Brooklyn.
        The cause was AIDS-related pneumonia, his family said.
        A lanky, wry, restless Oklahoma redhead called Rusty, a graduate of Haverford College who tried law school and taught high school for a year before becoming a journalist, Mr. King worked briefly at The Wichita Eagle and The Miami Herald before joining The Times in 1982 as a copy editor.
        But his talents for language, broad knowledge of politics and world and national affairs, and other journalistic skills soon carried him onto the news desk, a small team of editors who oversee the preparation of the newspaper's front page and serve as a final quality checkpoint between the newsroom departments and the reader.
        For the last decade, Mr. King served with that group, behind the scenes, to backstop the work of reporters and editors by refining the content and style of the day's major articles and headlines. His mission was to detect and correct inaccuracies, redundancies, slips in fairness and imprecise, inelegant or offensive language.
        One example of his measured editorial judgment was his memo from 1992 on whether offensive names for minority groups should be printed. It read in part:
        ''Since the targets of prejudice were using the taboo term themselves, where was the harm?
        ''Well, the harm is that frequent use of offensive words, no matter who is saying the words or where, cannot help suggesting that the offense is slight. Every time we print such a word, particularly in a lighthearted or humorous context, we risk letting people think that it is acceptable to use it ourselves. And of course we are further concerned with littering the paper with what amounts to obscenity -- it simply lowers the tone of The Times.''
        Often, especially on weekends, it was Mr. King who laid out Page 1 in consultation with the paper's top editors.
        James Russell King was born in Tulsa, Okla., on Nov. 3, 1954. He grew up in Ardmore, Okla., and was valedictorian of his high school class in 1972. He received a bachelor's degree in American studies from Haverford College in Pennsylvania in 1976 and spent the next few years in search of a profession.
        He taught writing for a year at Ardmore High, attended Columbia University Law School for a year, and, from 1978 to 1980, studied at the University of Missouri School of Journalism while working as a faculty instructor and as an editor and reporter for The Columbia Missourian.
        After a summer with The Wichita Eagle in Kansas and two years with The Miami Herald, Mr. King joined The Times in 1982 as a copy editor on the national desk. Seven years later, he moved to the news desk as an assistant editor. He was named a deputy news editor in 1991.
        He was an active member of the National Lesbian and Gay Journalists Association, was a mentor for many new Times staff members and -- among the small crew who worked into the early hours -- began an annual tradition of wearing formal attire to work on New Year's Eve.
        Mr. King is survived by his mother, Mary Ann Jones King of Ardmore, and two sisters, Melinda Ann (Kit) King of Dallas and Leslie High-Smith of San Marcos, Tex. A brother, Philip, died last September.
      