
        Adolf K. Placzek, a distinguished architectural librarian, historian, editor and preservationist, died on Sunday night at his home in Manhattan, said his nephew, John Maxtone-Graham. He was 87.
        Mr. Placzek transformed the Avery Architectural Library at Columbia University, where he spent 32 years, including 20 as the director, into one of the world's finest repositories of architectural books, drawings and other archival materials.
        ''And he himself was a resource par excellence for preservationists and architects,'' said Peg Breen, president of the New York Landmarks Conservancy. ''He inevitably knew the answer to their questions and inevitably had something illuminating to add.''
        Widely known as Dolf, Mr. Placzek (pronounced PLAH-chek) retired in 1980 from the Avery library and from Columbia University, where he had also been an adjunct professor of architecture since 1970.
        But retiring for Mr. Placzek was not synonymous with vegetating. ''He did some of his most significant work after 1980, including three works that are absolutely crucial for architects and scholars,'' said Morrison Heckscher, the curator of American decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        He was editor in chief of the four-volume Macmillan Encyclopedia of Architects, published in 1982, a collection of biographies of more than 2,000 architects, from builders of ancient Egypt to avant-garde 20th-century architects.
        In 1986, he was named co-editor of ''The Buildings of the United States,'' a voluminous series published by Oxford University Press under the editorial direction of the Society of Architectural Historians, of which Mr. Placzek was a past president. Five volumes of the proposed 70 have been published so far.
        In 1997, G. H. Hall & Company published ''Avery's Choice: Five Centuries of Great Architectural Books; One Hundred Years of an Architectural Library, 1890-1990,'' edited by Mr. Placzek and Angela Giral, a librarian at the Avery library.
        But even before his retirement, Mr. Placzek made a significant contribution to architectural scholarship as one of the first, and one of the most active, members of the board of the Architectural History Foundation, established in New York in 1977 in large part for publishing important but neglected works.
        ''He brought us our first book, a 16th-century manuscript, 'Sebastiano Serlio, On Domestic Architecture,' '' said Victoria Newhouse, who was the foundation's publisher and president of the society. ''He also wrote the preface to the book and served as an editor of many of our projects, including the four-volume sketchbooks of Le Corbusier,'' the architect.
        The foundation's publishing program ended in 1994 after issuing 36 books in association with M.I.T. Press, which subsequently acquired the foundation's backlist.
        Born in Vienna and a 1938 graduate of the University of Vienna, Mr. Placzek went to England in 1939 and came to the United States in 1940.
        ''He was one of the many European immigrants who came here to escape Hitler,'' Mr. Heckscher said.
        Soon after receiving a degree in library sciences from Columbia in 1942, he served three years in the Army. In 1948, he became an assistant librarian at Avery and was named head librarian in 1960. In March 1948, he married Joyce Anstruther Maxtone Graham, who under the pen name Jan Struther wrote ''Mrs. Miniver,'' a novel published in the United States in 1940 about an  English family during the blitz. The movie version in 1942 starred Greer Garson and Walter Pidgeon.
        Jan Struther, who later adopted her pen name, died in 1953, and Mr. Placzek married Laura Beverley Robinson in 1957.
        In addition to her, Mr. Placzek is survived by two stepsons from his first marriage, James Maxtone Graham of Peebles, Scotland, and Robert Maxtone Graham of Sandwich, Kent, England; his sister, Susan Stern of Riverdale, the Bronx; and a stepgrandson.
        Last September, Mr. Placzek's memoir about coming of age in Vienna in the 1930's was published in Germany to great acclaim, according to Mr. Heckscher and John Maxtone-Graham, Mr. Placzek's nephew. Another of his books, about Viennese refugees in New York, was published in Germany earlier this month.
        ''He had a distinctly Central European persona, in that he was courtly, soft-spoken and reserved,'' said Barbaralee Diamonstein, a former member of New York City's Landmarks Preservation Commission, as was Mr. Placzek.
        Anthony M. Tung, who served on the commission with Mr. Placzek, said of him: ''He was a meticulous scholar, and although scrupulous and quiet-spoken in his judgments, rarely wrong. But he roared like a lion when the Bryant Park Restoration Corporation first sought to build a restaurant against the rear facade of the New York Public Library.''
        Although a modified restaurant eventually won out, Mr. Placzek's part in the wrangling over the restaurant in the 1980's wrought a change in him, from an Old World sensibility that had avoided direct confrontation as ''un-Viennese.''
        ''During the Bryant Park controversy, here was Dolf making fiery speeches,'' Mr. Tung said. ''He didn't yell or argue, but by then, he began to understand that yelling and arguing were part of New York democracy in action, and from then on, he'd speak out far more frequently.''
      