
        Dr. Louis Weinstein, a founder of the modern medical specialty of infectious diseases and a leading medical educator, died on Thursday at a nursing home near his home in Newton, Mass. He was 92.
        ''He put clinical infectious diseases on the map and made it a very strong specialty,'' said Dr. Robert G. Petersdorf, another pioneer in infectious diseases at the University of Washington in Seattle and a former president of the Association of American Medical Colleges.
        Starting his work at a time when there were no antibiotics and few vaccines, Dr. Weinstein lived to see his research and teaching influence much of the everyday practice of his specialty. He helped introduce many staples of infectious disease treatment, including the antibiotic Keflin, and helped develop guidelines for anti-infective therapy. An expert on infections of the heart, he was also among the first to warn of drug resistance and other hazards of antibiotic therapy.
        Dr. Weinstein was a heroic figure in the polio epidemics that paralyzed many people in New England in 1949 and 1955. Appalled that many obstetricians refused to treat pregnant women with polio for fear of contracting the viral infection, Dr. Weinstein delivered their babies himself.
        Louis Weinstein was born in Bridgeport, Conn., on Feb. 26, 1908. He supported his education by working as a jazz violinist and began his career as a microbiologist at Yale in 1931. At the time, tuberculosis and infections from staphylococci, streptococci and other microbes were leading causes of death in this country. Measles, diphtheria, mastoiditis and meningitis were among the common childhood diseases and were often fatal.
        Seeking to learn more how microbes affected humans, Dr. Weinstein earned a medical degree at Boston University in 1943; by 1947 he was chief of infectious diseases at the university. As penicillin and other antibiotics began to change medical practice sharply, the specialized hospitals where patients with dangerous communicable diseases were kept isolated from other patients closed. Instead, regular hospitals opened infectious disease units, and Dr. Weinstein played a key role in setting them up. He also gave courses to help doctors learn how to use the new antibiotics.
        ''Louis was a bridge between the eras before and after the introduction of antibiotics,'' said Dr. Morton N. Swartz, former chief of infectious diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, where Dr. Weinstein taught regularly.
        Dr. Weinstein was an early and outspoken critic of the misuse of broad-spectrum antibiotics, correctly warning that they could kill off the body's normal microbes and open the way for infection by fungi and unusual microbes, recalled Dr. Martin Plaut, an infectious disease specialist in Buffalo who trained with him.
        Dr. Weinstein is also credited with showing that patients could develop a second infection while on antibiotic therapy for an initial infection.
        In 1957, Dr. Weinstein became chief of infectious diseases at Tufts Medical School and stayed until his retirement in 1975. He then moved to Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard, becoming one of the few doctors to serve on the faculty of all three medical schools in Boston.
        In his lectures, a younger doctor would outline a case on a blackboard, then Dr. Weinstein would pick out the salient points and speak without notes or slides for an hour or more. He thought like a medical detective, and he shared his thought process step by step as he solved the riddle nature had posed.
        Dr. Allan J. Weinstein, an infectious disease specialist and now a vice president at Eli Lilly & Company in Indianapolis, recalled a time when his father came to a conference expecting to discuss a case of tuberculosis. But to his surprise, the patient had another infection, a rare one. Unfazed, Dr. Weinstein tapped his encyclopedic knowledge to lecture comprehensively on it.
        Dr. Weinstein often interrupted his schedule to make house calls all over the Northeast. His students, eager for a private tutorial from the master, served as his drivers. When Aristotle Onassis developed pneumonia in Paris, Dr. Weinstein was summoned to consult.
        Every Monday night, his students would gather around a Ping-Pong table in his house in Newton to discuss papers in what was known as a journal club.
        In 1976, Dr. Weinstein was chairman of an advisory committee to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention when it was dealing with the legionnaire's disease outbreak in Philadelphia.
        In addition to his son, Dr. Weinstein is survived by his wife, Ethel Raport Weinstein; a daughter, Carol Boileau of Lowell, and three grandchildren.
      