
        Marshall B. Coyne, whose Madison Hotel brought a new level of luxury to the nation's capital, serving presidents, kings, prime ministers and celebrities like Frank Sinatra and Bob Hope, died at his home on Thursday. He was 89.
        Mr. Coyne, a native of Maspeth, N.Y., moved to Washington in the 1940's, and with his business partner, Charles Rose, started the Roscoe-Ajax Construction Company. They built apartment and office buildings in the city, before opening the 360-room Madison Hotel in 1963.
        As the owner, and proprietor, as he liked to call himself, Mr. Coyne took a bit of a risk with the hotel, charging around $20 a day for luxuries like rosewood paneling and crystal chandeliers. The current rate for a room at the hotel ranges from about $300 to $465 for a night's stay.
        Rival hoteliers called Mr. Coyne the ''dean of the hospitality industry in Washington.'' In 1987, the vice president and manager of the Four Seasons Hotel, Peter Martin, called Mr. Coyne ''the total hotelier,'' in a profile in The New York Times.
        ''Probably more than any other individual he was responsible for bringing to Washington a true luxury concept,'' Mr. Martin said. ''He set the standard that everyone gauges themselves to.''
        During the Middle East peace talks in 1979 that led to the Camp David accords, the official delegations from Israel and Egypt stayed at the Madison. And in 1987, when President Ronald Reagan and Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union met in the capital, the hotel was transformed into a sort of Western Kremlin. The hotel was declared a temporary foreign mission during the week of the summit, with hundreds of Soviet officials occupying the top six floors.
        Mr. Coyne was on the board of the Foreign Policy Association, which often held its Ambassadorial Roundtable at the hotel. He also served on the boards of the American Academy of Diplomacy at the State Department, Georgetown University, the Center for Strategic International Studies, the Kennedy Center and the James Madison Council of the Library of Congress. And he was a member of the Washington Hebrew Congregation.
        An avid collector of art, sculpture, antiques and rare books and manuscripts, Mr. Coyne, who kept an eye on all activities at the hotel from linen closets to the kitchen, filled his hotel with art from a private collection, including 19th-century French paintings, a Louis XV writing table and an 18th-century Chinese altar table.
        The Madison is one of several properties in the Washington area run by the Madison Management and Investment Company, which Mr. Coyne headed from the early 1970's until his death.
        The centerpiece in his office was a 12-foot-long table covered with framed photographs and mementos. He had autographed pictures of every president to take office since he arrived in Washington, and many other dignitaries, like the Dalai Lama.
        Mr. Coyne was married twice, to Sylvia Shefkowitz and to Jane Gordon; both marriages ended in divorce.
        He is survived by five grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
      