
        Kariel Gardosh, an Israeli political cartoonist who captured the national psyche in depictions of his country as an innocent boy in a tough neighborhood, died on Monday in Tel Aviv. He was 79.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his newspaper, Maariv, said.
        Mr. Gardosh was popularly known as Dosh, the name he signed on his cartoons. His trademark was the impish figure Srulik, a boy in shorts, sandals and a brimless Israeli sun hat whose expressions reflected the sharp swings of the Israeli public mood: alternatively defiant, mournful, triumphant or perplexed.
        Often facing down a hostile Arab world in cartoons published in the 1960's and 1970's, Srulik reflected the self-image of a small embattled nation, a perception that has faded as Israel has made peace with some of its neighbors and emerged as a regional power. But Srulik remains a national icon, featured on posters and stickers and celebrated in a stamp issued to commemorate Israel's 50th anniversary in 1998.
        ''Dosh's Srulik is the symbol of Israel, like Marianne is the symbol of France, John Bull is the symbol of Great Britain and Uncle Sam is the symbol of the United States,'' wrote Mr. Gardosh's friend Yosef Lapid, an Israeli legislator, in a published tribute.
        A native of Budapest, Mr. Gardosh went through forced labor camps in World War II and lost his family in the Holocaust. He studied literature at the Sorbonne before immigrating to British-ruled Palestine in 1948.
        An aspiring journalist hampered  by a lack of knowledge of Hebrew, he began drawing for newspapers of Lehi, a militant Jewish underground group.
        In 1953 he was hired by Maariv, where his cartoons appeared until his death. English versions of his cartoons were published in The Jerusalem Post. From 1981 to 1983 he served as the cultural attache in the Israeli Embassy in London.
        A political conservative who also wrote occasional columns, Mr. Gardosh often used his cartoons to depict a beleaguered Israel confronting the world, particularly Arab countries.
        In his last cartoon, published in Maariv last week, he commented on recent Arab condemnations of Israel after it bombed power plants in Lebanon. His drawing showed mosques topped by crescents lined with menacing teeth.
        Collections of Mr. Gardosh's cartoons were published in several books. One volume published after the 1967 Arab-Israeli war was titled ''Sorry We Won.''
        Mr. Gardosh is survived by his companion, Tova Pardo, a daughter, a son and three grandchildren.
      