
        The trombonist Al Grey, a member of the Count Basie band through various stretches from 1957 to 1977 and a strong, humorous improviser, died on Friday at a hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 74 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said his companion, Rosalie Soladar.
        Mr. Grey exemplified the musicians that Basie sought and cultivated: a disciplined section player who could also step forward for solos and transcend that role with style. His signature was the plunger mute, and he used it swaggeringly, making his malingering, behind-the-beat notes plump and juicy. He knew how to insinuate slyness into standards and ballads, but he was probably at his best on the blues; he needed a tenacious rhythm section as a bed for his authoritative dance-band riffs.
        He joined the band at the beginning of Basie's tenure with Roulette records and played with it through the 60's -- the last great decade of Basie music -- except for a stint  leading a small group with the saxophonist Billy Mitchell. Along with the tenor saxophonist Eddie Lockjaw Davis, Mr. Grey was a principal soloist for the band in the late 60's; some of his best work can be heard on the 1966 album ''Sinatra at the Sands,'' with the Basie band accompanying Frank Sinatra, as well as the recording of a performance of the band from the same Las Vegas engagement, ''Count Basie Live at the Sands (Before Frank).''
        Mr. Grey was born in Aldie, Va., and learned to play trombone from his father, an instructor for a youth orchestra in Pottstown, Pa. He worked in a Navy band during World War II, and musicians he encountered there recommended him to Benny Carter, whose band he joined in 1946.
        After the Basie years Mr. Grey was a busy freelancer. He led a band with the saxophonist Jimmy Forrest, and another with his son, Mike, also a trombonist. He toured a little with Norman Granz's Jazz at the Philharmonic and played with George Wein's Newport All-Stars.
        In addition to his son Mike, of Las Vegas, he is survived his sons Albert Jr., Ernest and Robert, of Philadelphia; a brother, Richard, of Reading, Pa.; a sister, Jenny Beck of Philadelphia; and four grandchildren.
      