
        Edward F. Knipling, whose revolutionary approach to agricultural pest control helped banish the once fearsome screwworm, died on March 17 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was three days shy of his 91st birthday.
        Dr. Knipling, for many years the top entomologist at the federal Department of Agriculture, came up with the idea that the insect populations that ravage crops and livestock could be controlled by sterilizing the pests and then unleashing them in torrential numbers. His success in controlling insects without insecticides brought him awards from around the world.
        Dr. Knipling's first target was the screwworm, a striped, grayish insect twice the size of a housefly that was once the scourge of farmers across the Southern United States and in Central America, costing tens of millions of dollars a year.
        The late (at least in the United States), unlamented insect sought out any wound it could find on warm-blooded animals -- chiefly livestock, but sometimes people -- and then laid hundreds of eggs. When the eggs hatched, the maggots ate the flesh with such voraciousness that full-grown cattle could die within 10 days. By then, the parasites, disdaining the dead, had usually moved on, developing into flies and seeking the next victim.
        ''It wasn't at all unusual to come to a watering place for animals and find 20 dead cows -- all killed by screwworms,'' recalled James R. Coppedge, a colleague of Dr. Knipling's at the Agricultural Research Service who helped him battle the insects in Texas in the 1950's.
        Working with Raymond C. Bushland, another Agriculture Department colleague, Dr. Knipling devised a tactic unlike any seen before in the fight against agricultural pests. The men decided to breed sterile male screwworm flies and release them in the hope that they would mate frequently but produce no offspring.
        Dr. Knipling got the idea after noticing that while female screwworms mated only once, males did so repeatedly. Sterilizing the males, he reasoned, would have a far greater and longer-lasting effect than the pesticides then in use.
        Within a dozen years, the screwworm was virtually banished. For American farmers, what was once a plague is now little more than a memory. (In Texas, Dr. Coppedge said, many cowboys who used to make their living desperately trying to round up and treat infected cattle faded away with their former nemesis.) Work is being done to eradicate the pest elsewhere in the world.
        The sterilization technique has been used with success against other pests, including the Mediterranean fruit fly and the tsetse fly in Africa, which carries sleeping sickness.
        Before he could do battle with the screwworm, Dr. Knipling had another fight on his hands: convincing his peers and supervisors that the sterilization approach had merit.
        Dr. Knipling, the son of a South Texas cotton farmer who grew up seeing the damage wrought by insects, conceived the idea in 1938, years before he was able to put it to the test, as a young field worker for the Agriculture Department.
        ''Forget this crazy idea and concentrate on more important things,'' he recalled one supervisor telling him, according to a 1975 issue of Current Biography.
        After World War II, running what amounted to an off-the-books operation, Dr. Knipling and Dr. Bushland, who died in 1995, secured an old Army X-ray machine and tried to see if the screwworm fly could be sterilized. In 1953, they released the first batch of sterilized flies on Sanibel Island in Florida. While the experiment appeared successful, flies from the mainland soon reappeared.
        The next year, a better testing ground came up when the Dutch government appealed to the United States for help with a screwworm plague in Curacao. The Agriculture Department released 150,000 sterilized flies a week on the island, and within three months the pest was eradicated. Full-scale eradication programs were then put in place in Florida and the Southwest, using giant ''fly factories.''
        Edward Fred Knipling was born on March 20, 1909, near Port Lavaca. As a farm boy, he developed an early interest in the behavior of animals and insects.
        His wife of 66 years, Phoebe Hall Knipling, died in 1998. He is survived by three sons: Edward, of Clarksville, Md., Gary, of Mason Neck, Va., and Ronald, of Arlington; and two daughters: Edwina Knipling Lake of Alexandria, Va., and Anita Knipling Scott of Arlington.
        Friends and relatives said the man many people called ''Knip'' never lost his love of wildlife. Dr. Coppedge recalled that in the thick of the fight against the screwworm, Dr. Knipling liked to talk about hunting and fishing, but always returned to his true passion.
        ''What he really loved to do,'' Dr. Coppedge said, ''was he loved to sit down and talk insects.''
      