
        Sig Mickelson, who as the first director of CBS television news attended at the birth of what became one of the nation's most powerful news organizations before moving into a second career in government and academia, died Friday evening in San Diego. He was 86.
        In his years with CBS, from 1949 to 1961, he helped merge the fledgling television news operation with the more senior and better-known corps of radio news correspondents who, under Edward R. Murrow, had come to international prominence in Europe during World War II.
        Mr. Mickelson had been a local television news director at WCCO in Minneapolis during World War II. He earned his early reputation at the network news division during the 1952 political conventions. Having started out in mid-1951 with a staff of 14, he successfully introduced the concept of gavel-to-gavel television convention coverage a year later. He promoted a local Washington newscaster, Walter Cronkite, to anchor of the network's convention coverage.
        ''Nobody blazed a trail for us in advance; so everything we did was first time out,'' Mr. Mickelson told Brian Lamb of C-SPAN in a 1990 broadcast about Mr. Mickelson's book ''From Whistle Stop to Sound Bite.''
        On that broadcast, Mr. Mickelson said, ''It just so happened that politics in 1952 was more exciting than it had been for many years because there were no holdover candidates, so the two major parties -- I'm talking presidential race only -- so everything had to start from scratch.''
        Although the coinage of ''anchorman'' has been variously attributed to three CBS news executives who were at those conventions -- Mr. Mickelson, Don Hewitt, now the executive producer of ''60 Minutes,'' and the convention producer Paul Levitan -- there is no disagreement that Mr. Mickelson set Mr. Cronkite on the path to become the country's best-known anchor.
        During the 1952 conventions, television news was still a junior partner to the radio news division. As Mr. Hewitt explained, citing the names of famous early CBS correspondents: ''In the beginning, the Murrows, Collingswoods, Sevareids wouldn't deign to be caught in television. Television was for Howdy Doody and 'Romper Room.' Radio was for adults.'' But, Mr. Hewitt said, ''Under Sig, the radio correspondents began to realize, slowly but surely, that the future of broadcast news lay in television.''
        In 1954, Mr. Mickelson was appointed a network vice president, elevating the news and public affairs division to senior status within Columbia Broadcasting System. In the corporate hierarchy, he was Mr. Murrow's boss. Yet according to Stanley Cloud, co-author with Lynne Olson of ''The Murrow Boys,'' Mr. Mickelson was sometimes defied by his more famous colleagues.
        But the medium he ran was the medium of the future, and CBS's radio correspondents adapted, if reluctantly. In November 1951, Mr. Murrow's radio program, ''Hear It Now,'' began its television run as ''See It Now.'' But as late as 1954, Mr. Cloud said, Mr. Mickelson's efforts to have correspondents use TV cameras were rebuffed.
        Mr. Mickelson and Mr. Murrow ''were not each other's cup of tea,'' said Daniel Schorr, a CBS television correspondent for two decades and now a senior political analyst with National Public Radio. Mr. Mickelson also crossed swords with Fred Friendly, Mr. Murrow's collaborator as the producer of ''See It Now.'' As Mr. Schorr described it: ''Mickelson wanted to deal with problems in the most pragmatic way. They were always scrapping because Friendly never saw a budget he didn't want to violate, and Mickelson was in overall charge of the budget.''
        Mr. Mickelson's role in the network -- he was made president of the CBS news division in 1959 -- gave him a front-row seat on the network's internal dramas, including the agreement of its founder, William S. Paley, to let the C.I.A. director, Allen Dulles, informally debrief its correspondents. ''I didn't raise an eyebrow about cooperating back then,'' Mr. Mickelson said in 1977.
        Richard S. Salant, who succeeded Mr. Mickelson as CBS News president in 1961, said in a 1977 interview in The New York Times that he cut the ties between the network's news division and the intelligence agency. Later Mr. Friendly would succeed Mr. Salant in the job.
        In 1961, Mr. Mickelson began a nine-year stint as director of Time-Life Broadcasting. He was on the faculty at Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism from 1972 to 1975 and headed Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty from 1975 through 1978.
        A founder of the Radio and Television News Directors Association, Mr. Mickelson also taught on the communications faculties at San Diego State University and Louisiana State University. CBS is helping to endow the Sig Mickelson/CBS Professorship at L.S.U.'s Manship School -- where Mr. Mickelson had taught after college and where he met his first wife, Maybelle Brown, who died in 1985.
        Mr. Mickelson is survived by his second wife, Elena; two children from his first marriage, Ann Mickelson de Brauw, of Evanston, Ill., and Dr. Alan Mickelson of Boulder, Colo.; two stepchildren, Alberto Mier y Teran of San Diego and Ina Mier y Teran Sheppard, of South Orange, N.J.; and seven grandchildren.
        In his 1990 C-SPAN discussion of ''From Whistle Stop to Sound Bite,'' he recalled his early hope that televised coverage of politics would create a livelier, more informed democracy.
        ''It simply hasn't happened,'' he said. ''We were hoping that we'd get more voters to the polls. We were hoping we'd have better candidates, better-informed candidates; that the charlatans were out of business completely; that the X-ray eye would expose all the charlatanism.
        ''Certainly, we haven't more people going to the polls,'' he added. ''And surely there is no exposure of the charlatans anymore. The X-ray eye probably has astigmatism of some kind or other.''
        Correction:  March 28, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about Sig Mickelson, the first director of CBS television news, misspelled the surname of an early CBS correspondent. He was Charles Collingwood, not Collingswood.
      