
        Raymond Katz, a television and theatrical producer and a personal manager, died on Thursday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 83 and lived in Los Angeles.
        From 1970 to 1985 Mr. Katz, with his partner and cousin Sandy Gallin, ran a management and production business that created television shows starring some of the most popular entertainers of the day. Among their hits were the series ''Donny and Marie'' and the Emmy Award-winning ''Sold Out,'' starring Lily Tomlin and Kate Smith, as well as specials featuring Cher, Mac Davis, Paul Lynde, Dolly Parton and Olivia Newton John.
        They moved to television films in the early 1980's, producing ''The Miracle Worker'' with Melissa Gilbert and Patty Duke, ''Diary of Anne Frank,'' ''Choices of the Heart,'' ''Family Secrets,'' ''Splendor in the Grass'' and ''Without Her Consent.''
        They also produced the NBC mini-series ''Mussolini: The Untold Story,'' starring George C. Scott, and ''Stagecoach,'' a CBS remake of the John Ford western, with Willie Nelson, Kris Kristofferson and Johnny Cash.
        A native of New York, Mr. Katz began his career as the stage manager of the Capitol Theater on Broadway. After directing the NBC ''Navy Hour'' during World War II he accepted the position of program director with MGM's New York radio station, WHN, where he created a syndication division for original programming that presented weekly series like ''Maisie,'' with Ann Sothern; ''Hardy Family,'' with Mickey Rooney; and ''Woman of the Year,'' with Bette Davis. He retired in 1960 to focus on personal management.
        In 1988 Mr. Katz produced the film ''I'm Gonna Git You Sucka,'' a spoof of 70's blaxploitation movies, for United Artists. He also produced several Broadway shows in the 80's, including ''Monday After the Miracle.'' In 1991 he joined Herman Rush to establish Katz-Rush Entertainment, which produced 13 episodes of ''The New Original Amateur Hour'' for the Family Channel.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara.
      