
        Anthony Powell, the English novelist whose 12-volume work, ''A Dance to the Music of Time,'' is regarded as one of the great achievements of postwar literature, died on Tuesday at his home near Frome in  Somerset, England. He was 94.
        Mr. Powell -- his name rhymes with Lowell -- was a contemporary of Evelyn Waugh, George Orwell and Cyril Connolly. He began his career as a novelist in the early 1930's chronicling the doings of Britain's bright young things and their bohemian hangers-on. His middle period, the quarter-century that begins with the publication of ''A Question of Upbringing'' in 1951, was given over to ''A Dance to the Music of Time,'' an ambitious effort to trace the fortunes of a group of schoolmates from their adolescence at the outbreak of World War I to old age in the Britain of the early 1970's.
        In his late 70's and early 80's, Mr. Powell surprised the critics by producing two novels that compared favorably with the best of his work, ''O, How the Wheel Becomes It!'' and ''The Fisher King.''
        Anthony Powell was born on Dec. 21, 1905,  in Westminster, London, the only child of an army officer, P. L. W. Powell, and the former Maude Wells-Dymoke. At Eton he fell in with a self-consciously arty set that included Harold Acton and Henry Green.
        By temperament Mr. Powell was an observer rather than an actor. ''He is a little different from the other boys, and I feel that his quiet reserve and dignity may prevent him from having any strong influence upon others when he gets to the top of the house,'' one teacher reported to his parents. ''I hope this may not be so, but I sometimes fear that they may regard him as superior and coldly critical.'' Mr. Powell himself later said, ''The whole of my life at Eton was spent in well-deserved obscurity.''
        After earning a third-class degree in history at Balliol College at Oxford University, where his classmates included Acton, Waugh, Green, Connolly and Graham Greene, Mr. Powell found work as an editor at Duckworth, the house that published four of his five early novels, beginning with ''Afternoon Men'' in 1931.
        While at Duckworth, he published Waugh's first book, ''Rossetti: His Life and Works,'' and, through a series of reissued novels, helped spur a revival of interest in Ronald Firbank.
        In his early fiction, Mr. Powell deftly satirized the social milieu he knew best -- the minor aristocrats, members of the polite professions and their artistic admirers, whose lives were defined by parties, outings and the ever-present specter of boredom. It is telling that ''Afternoon Men'' (1931), which relates the story of a mild-mannered junior museum official's search for love in a rapacious, shallow world, begins and ends with an invitation to a party.
        Like Firbank, Ernest Hemingway and E. E. Cummings, three early influences, Mr. Powell made use of clipped, often inane dialogue to create a distinctive brand of comedy that relied, as he later put it, on ''purposeless exchanges that are their own purpose,'' made meaningful by ''an undercurrent of innuendo and irony.''
        ''Afternoon Men'' was followed by ''Venusberg'' (1932), ''From a View to a Death'' (1933) and ''Agents and Patients'' (1936), a novel whose title neatly suggested one of Mr. Powell's great subjects, the ineffectual, cultivated Englishman out of step with a world shaped by cut-rate mass culture and cutthroat commerce, here represented by a film director and a psychoanalyst.
        In 1936 he left Duckworth to write movie scripts for Warner Brothers of Great Britain. A brief trip to Hollywood in search of screenwriting work led nowhere, although he did meet F. Scott Fitzgerald. In 1939 he published ''What's Become of Waring?,'' a comic novel about a publishing house's search for its prize author, who is reported missing but whom no one in the company has ever actually met.
        Mr. Powell's novels, although critically well received, sold only a few thousand copies each, and his only steady income came from book reviews for The Daily Telegraph and The Spectator. His financial situation eased in 1934 when he married Lady Violet Pakenham, a daughter of the fifth Earl of Longford, who survives him, along with their sons, Tristram and John.
        With the outbreak of World War II, Mr. Powell, well into his 30's, enlisted with the Welsh Regiment, in which his father had served. He spent two years as an infantry second lieutenant before transferring to the Intelligence Corps, with which he served in London until 1945. He was a liaison officer with the Allied Forces in exile, achieving the rank of major and earning the Czechoslovak Order of the White Lion and the Belgian Order of Leopold II.
        After the war Mr. Powell resumed work on ''John Aubrey and His Friends'' (1948), a biography of the 17th-century antiquary who, he wrote, stood out among his contemporaries in his appreciation of ''the oddness of the individual human being.'' With Aubrey, Mr. Powell shared a fascination with genealogy, peculiar anecdotes and gossip.
        When Mr. Powell returned to fiction writing, he made a decisive break with his early manner. In a later interview, he said: ''I decided that the thing to do was to produce a really large work about all of the things I was interested in -- the whole of one's life, in fact -- for I have no talent for inventing plots of a dramatic kind in a comparatively small space.''
        He embarked on a comprehensive social study of Britain's upperish classes, a nebulous social stratum consisting of minor aristocrats, the members of the ''right'' professions, assorted bohemians and academics. This genteel milieu, defined more by schooling and temperament than by money, is seen through the writer's alter ego, Nicholas Jenkins, a detached, even passive observer who takes up a position on the sidelines.
        Although the series includes hundreds of  characters across some 70 years of time, three fellow classmates play major roles in most of the books. Peter Templer and Charles Stringham, whose aestheticism and eccentricity hark back to a more genteel age, struggle to find a place in the new England. Kenneth Widmerpool, an object of scorn to his classmates, emerges as a powerful, decisive force, the right man for a mean and mercenary age.
        The title and inspiration for the series came from Poussin's painting ''A Dance to the Music of Time.'' The painting, which Mr. Powell saw in the Wallace Collection in London, depicts four outward-facing nymphs dancing in a circle. Tantalizingly ambiguous, their dance suggested to Mr. Powell the way that time and circumstance bring people together and then push them apart. ''An almost hypnotic spell seemed cast by this masterpiece on the beholder,'' Mr. Powell later wrote. ''I knew all at once that Poussin had expressed at least one important aspect of what the novel must be.''
        For the next quarter-century, beginning with ''A Question of Upbringing'' in 1951 and concluding with ''Hearing Secret Harmonies'' in 1975, Mr. Powell worked on this grand project, its underlying pattern ruled by what he called ''the inexorable law of coincidence.''
        In ''A Buyer's Market,'' the second volume of ''Dance,'' Jenkins muses on chance and fate, the connection of opposites and the different worlds one encounters in life: ''Nearly all the inhabitants of these outwardly disconnected empires turn out at last to be tenaciously interrelated; love and hate, friendship and enmity, too, becoming themselves less clearly defined, more often than not showing signs of possessing characteristics that could claim, to say the least, not a little in common; while work and play merge indistinguishably into a complex tissue of pleasure and tedium.''
        Over the years Mr. Powell rejected complicated interpretations of ''Dance,''insisting it dealt with ''things as they are.'' He disliked suggestions that he based his characters on particular people. He worked hard at making sure that every title, every name, every place was accurately set down.
        While working on ''Dance,'' Mr. Powell served as an editor and contributor at several publications. After the war he took a part-time position with The Times Literary Supplement, supervising the fiction reviews, and from 1953 to 1959 he was the literary editor of Punch. He also continued to review regularly for The Daily Telegraph.
        Mr. Powell's later manner, which one critic described as Proust rendered into English by P. G. Wodehouse, was feline and elliptical, alienating some admirers of his earlier work. ''Some critics dislike its subtle elaboration of manner, preferring the crisper, more immediate effect of the prewar comedies,'' the critic Bernard Bergonzi wrote of ''Dance.'' For admirers of the series, Mr. Powell, in abandoning the quick, satiric strokes of his earlier novels, created a far more complex and compelling social drama. In his precise delineation of English manners, he searchingly explored emotional territory that he had treated flippantly before. In 1997 the series was adapted for television by Hugh Whitemore.
        From 1976 to 1982 Mr. Powell completed four volumes of memoirs under the title ''To Keep the Ball Rolling,'' which include memorable vignettes of friends like Orwell, Connolly, Malcolm Muggeridge and Kingsley Amis. Three volumes of diaries, covering the years 1982 to 1992, were published between 1995 and 1997 under the title ''Journals.'' Mr. Powell also edited or contributed prefaces to several volumes that shed light on his literary influences, from the high-society novels of Disraeli and Ouida to the works of Firbank. A selection of his criticism was collected in ''Miscellaneous Verdicts'' (1990) and ''Under Review'' (1992).
        Mr. Powell was named a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1956 but refused a knighthood in 1973. A knight, he wrote in his journal, was ''rather an awful thing to be.'' He was happy to be made a Companion of Honor in 1988, however. ''Rather cheered,'' he wrote in his journal, ''as CH eminently respectable order (65 members), which most people have never heard of. Those who have know its standing.''
      