
        Dr. Leopold Bellak, a psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and psychologist best known for his contributions in the fields of psychological testing and abnormal psychology, died on Friday at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. A resident of neighboring Larchmont, he was 83.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Dr. Bellak was widely known in the field for his work with the Thematic Apperception Test, known as the T.A.T., which uses a series of evocative pictures to reveal subjects' unconscious fantasies, and the development of a version of the test for children, the Children's Apperception Test, referred to as the C.A.T.
        Dr. Bellak wrote about 200 scholarly articles and some 40 books, lectured widely and wrote extensively about brief and emergency psychotherapy and about adult attention deficit disorder. He was also known for his work on schizophrenia.
        With a colleague, Dr. David M. Abrams, Dr. Bellak published ''The Thematic Apperception Test, the Children's Apperception Test and the Senior Apperception Technique in Clinical Use'' (Allyn & Beacon). The sixth revised edition appeared in 1996 and remains in print, as do many of his other titles.
        The American Psychological Association honored Dr. Bellak in 1993 with its annual award, the ''Distinguished Professional Contributions to Knowledge.'' The association described his work as seminal and noted ''his building of bridges between varied disciplines in the behavioral sciences.''
        Leopold Bellak was born in Vienna, arrived in this country in 1938 and became a citizen in 1943. He served in the Army Medical Corps in World War II.
        After studying medicine at the University of Vienna for three years, he went on to study psychology on a scholarship at Boston University and on a fellowship at Harvard, receiving M.A. degrees at both, in 1939 and 1942. He completed his M.D. at New York Medical College in 1944 and trained at St. Elizabeths Hospital in Washington and the New York Psychoanalytic Institute.
        He was on the staff at Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University from 1971 to 1988. He also maintained a private practice in psychiatry and psychoanalysis in Larchmont, starting in 1941.
        Dr. Bellak is survived by two daughters, Trina Bellak of Gaithersburg, Md., and Kerin Adams of Englewood, N.J., and a granddaughter, as well as his former wife, Sonya Baychok Sorel Bellak, of Rockville, Md.
        Another of his books in print is the autobiographical ''Confrontation in Vienna'' (CPS, 1994). It opens with a class reunion there in the early 1980's and traces his early years in the Austrian capital until the Nazis took control of the country.
        Other major titles in print include ''Handbook of Intensive Brief and Emergency Psychotherapy'' (CPS, 1987), and, with Samm S. Baker, ''Reading Faces'' (CPS, 1981.).
        Dr. Bellak, who was an early advocate of walk-in psychiatric clinics in  hospitals, regularly appeared on television talk shows discussing a variety of psychiatric issues. He also narrated a series, ''The Human Mind,'' for PBS, exploring consciousness from ancient history to the days of Freud and on to the present.
        ''Between my bald head and my Viennese accent,'' he said on that occasion, in 1982, ''I guess I represent psychiatry.''
      