
        Carl S. Shoup, a Columbia University economist who oversaw the creation of a modern tax system for Japan after World War II, helped invent the value-added tax and made a major study of ways Americans could be taxed, died March 23 at a nursing home in Laconia, N.H. He was 97.
        Many of the approaches to taxation that Professor Shoup emphasized in his work focused on making tax systems fair and simple for both individuals and corporations.
        In 1934, Treasury Secretary Henry Morgenthau Jr. invited Mr. Shoup to Washington where he and Roy Blough, another economist, directed a comprehensive six-volume study of American taxes and potential reforms. Their 1937 ''Report on the Federal Revenue System'' explored issues that to this day confront Congress. It was reproduced last year by Tax Analysts, a nonprofit publisher in Washington, at www.tax.org, as part of its tax history project.
        In 1949, an aide to Gen. Douglas MacArthur invited Professor Shoup to Japan to help overhaul the tax system. In the late 1800's, the Japanese adopted both corporate and individual income taxes, but in a tour of the country by private rail car, Professor Shoup heard complaints that the system was arbitrary, with some people being heavily taxed while others paid little.
        To remedy this, he and six other economists, a team that became known as the Shoup Mission, proposed a system under which companies that kept detailed records and filed an annual tax report would be freed from onerous audits and could take advantage of various tax breaks, including generous allowances for the depreciation of equipment and the ability to carry losses in bad years forward to offset taxes during highly profitable years.
        He had the forms printed in blue, after being advised that the Japanese liked blue documents, as part of his effort to encourage voluntary compliance. The Japanese Diet enacted his proposals in 1950.
        Beyond creating a friendlier tax agency, the Japanese system also eliminated the need for about 80 percent of Japanese to file an individual income tax return because taxes withheld from paychecks settle obligations to the national, prefecture and municipal governments.
        Professor Shoup also played a crucial role in developing the value-added tax systems used in Europe, Japan and Canada. ''He worked from the very first days on the VAT and made many trips to Europe when the VAT was being developed over there after World War II,'' said Lowell Harris, a retired Columbia economics professor.
        Lorraine Eden, a Texas A &M management professor who was the last graduate student Professor Shoup advised at Columbia, said that while ''he was often called the father of the value-added tax'' he was not necessarily its advocate. ''He always said he didn't go to bat for the VAT,'' she said.
        In the 1950's he helped overhaul the tax systems in Cuba, Venezuela and Liberia, Professor Harris said.
        Carl Sumner Shoup was born in San Jose, Calif., in 1902, and grew up in nearby Los Altos, where he rode to school on horseback. One of his grandfathers was an engineer who helped build the cable-car system in San Francisco; his father was president of the Southern Pacific Railroad in the late 1920's.
        In 1924, Mr. Shoup graduated from Stanford University with a law degree and then moved to New York where he became a reporter for The New York World. He grew bored with the newspaper business and began studying economics at Columbia, becoming an instructor there in 1928, earning his doctoral degree in economics in 1930 and becoming a full professor in 1945. He retired in 1971 as McVickar professor of political economy and eventually moved to Center Sandwich, N.H., with his wife, Ruth. She died in 1997, 73 years after their wedding.
        He is survived by a son, Paul, of Charlottesville, Va., and a daughter, Dale S. Meyer, of Center Sandwich. Another son, Donald, died in 1989.
        Throughout the last 50 years the Japanese government honored Professor Shoup for creating a tax system that played a major role in its rise as an economic power. Emperor Hirohito twice decorated Professor Shoup with the Order of the Sacred Treasure. In 1991, the Toyota Motor Corporation gave $2 million to Columbia University to endow a chair in Professor Shoup's name.
        Correction:  April 1, 2000, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Carl S. Shoup, the economist who oversaw the creation of Japan's postwar tax system, misspelled his daughter's surname. She is Dale S. Mayer, not Meyer.
      