
        Rudolf Kirchschlager, the popular and widely respected president of Austria from 1974 to 1986, died of a heart attack yesterday, a government spokesman in Vienna announced. He had just turned 85 and lived in Vienna.
        A political outsider, a former judge and career diplomat, Mr. Kirchschlager was championed for the presidency by Chancellor Bruno Kreisky, whom he was serving as foreign minister. Mr. Kreisky overcame the reluctance of his Socialist Party to advance Mr. Kirch schlager's candidacy in 1974. Mr. Kirchschlager won re-election to a second term six years later with 79.9 percent of the vote.
        Legally forbidden to seek a third consecutive term, he was succeeded in the largely ceremonial office by Kurt Waldheim, the former secretary general of the United Nations.  Mr. Waldheim ran for the post in 1986 despite a clouded past that left him as something of an international pariah.
        Mr. Kirchschlager had reviewed Yugoslav documents concerning Mr. Waldheim's conduct as a German Army officer in World War II and ruled against prosecution. He held that Mr. Waldheim must have been aware of the German reprisals against partisans in the Balkans but said there was no evidence that he had taken part in war crimes or knew of the deportations of Greek Jews.
        Mr. Waldheim won the office in a runoff. He caused a serious isolation problem, contrasting with the unblemished record Mr. Kirchschlager had brought to the presidency.
        Born to a working-class family in Niederkappel, Upper Austria, Mr. Kirchschlager financed his law studies with odd jobs and a state grant. He lost the grant after Hitler annexed Austria in 1938 because he did not join the Nazi Party, but he managed to finish his doctorate two years later.
        Mr. Kirchschlager practiced law and sat as a judge until 1954, when he moved to the Foreign Ministry. He was an architect of Austrian neutrality and represented his country in negotiations that shaped postwar Austria.
        He was the envoy to Czechoslovakia from 1967 to 1970, when he was named foreign affairs minister.
        His survivors include his wife of 60 years, a daughter and a son.
        In his final interview on his 85th birthday last week, he deplored the new estrangement that befell Vienna when the hard right entered the government this year.
        ''I find it sad,'' he told the Austria Press Agency, ''that we have so few friends in Europe -- or the world -- to protect us from being cast simply as 'Nazis' from a 'Nazi' state.''
        Earlier, on the 40th anniversary of the Anschluss, he said the pictures of crowds welcoming Hitler to Austria -- where Hitler was born -- told just one side of the story.
        ''There are no pictures of the many who took their own lives because they could not face the coming years,'' Mr. Kirchschlager said. ''There are no pictures of the people who sat terrified in their homes waiting for the Gestapo to come and get them.''
        It was the anti-Nazi resistance, he added, that laid the foundations for modern democratic Austria.
      