
        Dr. Gary Allan Polis, a zoologist, an ecologist and one of the world's foremost experts on the dreaded scorpion, drowned on Monday in a boat accident off Mexico in the Sea of Cortez. He was 53 and lived in Davis, Calif.
        Dr. Polis was one of four researchers who died when their 22-foot boat sank. His body was recovered on Thursday. Four other people on the boat swam to safety on a nearby island, and one remained missing as of yesterday.
        The group, led by Dr. Polis, was on a routine expedition financed by the Earthwatch Institute to study lizards, spiders and other predators on the sea's islands. Earthwatch described the area as an ecologist's ''heaven here on earth'' for the diversity and abundance of species there.
        At his death, Dr. Polis was a professor of ecology at the University of California at Davis and the chairman of the department of environmental science and policy. His research took him to the Sea of Cortez at least twice a year, the university said.
        He was the author or editor of six books on scorpions and desert ecology. During the Persian Gulf crisis, the Pentagon consulted him about the scorpions that American troops might encounter.
        Gary Polis was born in Los Angeles and graduated from Loyola University there in 1969. He received an M.A. in 1975 and a Ph.D. in biology in 1977 from the University of California at Riverside.
        He taught high school science before taking a job teaching zoology at Oregon State University in 1977. He was on the biology faculty of Vanderbilt University from 1979 to 1998, and became a full professor in 1992. He spent a sabbatical at Davis in 1992 and returned in 1998.
        He is survived by his wife, Sharon; their son, Evan, and daughter, Maia; his parents, Samuel R. Polis and Marie Polis of Temecula, Calif.; and four brothers and a sister, all of San Diego.
        Scorpions got their horrific reputation in the Bible and in the mythologies of ancient China and Persia. As far as Dr. Polis was concerned, they deserved it.
        ''There's a good reason why humans are terrified of scorpions,'' he said in a 1990 interview. ''They've caused a lot of deaths over the years.'' Moreover, he said, even their less venomous species can deliver stings that ''feel like 10 flaming bullets rotating inside you all at once.''
      