
        Toon Hermans, a beloved Dutch stage performer who was as comfortable in poetry, song and folk philosophy as in making people ache with laughter, died last Saturday in a hospital in Utrecht, the Netherlands. He was 83.
        Mr. Hermans, who spent his life in the spotlight, was buried privately on Tuesday in Sittard, the small southern town where he was born on Dec. 17, 1916, and where he often returned. The death of Mr. Hermans,  whose first name was originally Antoine, was widely mourned in a nation where half the population could sing along with his songs, and where, his age notwithstanding, he was preparing another show.
        Until the end of his life there was rarely a spare seat in any theater where he performed, and he often had people crying with laughter. After his death, the radio and television shows dedicated to him invariably recalled what was perhaps his most touching tragic-comic act: the sketch of the magician who finds that his dove is dead.
        In another well-known sketch he posed as an ornithologist, delivering a serious scientific lecture on different species of birds while imitating all their sounds and mannerisms.
        Many Dutch entertainers and cabaret artists said that Mr. Hermans, whose hobby was painting, had a great influence on them. ''He painted with his brush, with words and with music,'' said Paul van Vliet, the  Dutch entertainer. Seth Gaaikema, another cabaret artist, said: ''He could put pinpricks into everything that was inflated and he could make magic out of nothing. He always remained a child.''
        He was a master of superior nonsense who was loved because his humor was gentle and affectionate,  never mean or scathing. In a country where humor can be heavy-handed, his sketches and songs were always nimble. One of his famous songs was about a little balloon; another was  about a man desperately searching for his clown nose to wear to a party.
        He said he got his sense of fun and love of the surreal from the Limburgs dialect he spoke when he was young and from his visits to fairs and the circus, which was virtually the only entertainment in his small town.
        He was never good at political satire or at joking about current affairs. ''I believe in the therapy of fun,  and I'm not good at being cynical or critical,'' he sometimes said, half-apologetically, when people called his humor naive. ''I just want to amuse people and share a bit of philosophy but do something that is always accessible, not topical.''
        He said he drew much inspiration from Charlie Chaplin and Jacques Tati. ''I'm interested only in the human condition,'' he once said in an  interview. ''In the little nuances, the moments of fun and sadness that make up everybody's life.''
        At various times, Mr. Hermans tried to take his one-man shows abroad, but they never flourished.  Somehow his songs, poems and wordplay did not work well in translation, perhaps because they were so intimately woven into the Dutch language. But in the Netherlands, his short poems and haiku-like nuggets  of folk wisdom were so popular that they were printed on birthday cards and even on wall tiles.
        He stopped performing for a time after his wife, Rita, died of cancer in 1990. In her memory, he opened a counseling center for cancer patients. He is survived by three sons.
        On the day of his funeral, the theater in Sittard, where he had often performed, debated whether to cancel that night's variety show. Instead, the lead comedian, Bert Visscher, decided to appear in a black suit and to dedicate the show to Mr. Hermans. ''Toon would have called me a wet for stopping the show,'' he told a tearful audience. ''He always said: 'Play, play. Life is also about playing.''
      