
        David Spanier, a British journalist who loved poker and wrote extensively and amusingly about it in a series of popular books, died on April 18 after collapsing while playing cards at a London casino. He was 67 and lived in London.
        The cause was a massive stroke, said his eldest son, Gideon.
        Mr. Spanier was best known on both sides of the Atlantic for his book ''Total Poker'' (Simon & Schuster), which  appeared in 1977. Besides providing tables of odds for aspiring players to study, ''Total Poker'' sought to show how the rules of the game applied to life in general and included an analysis of the Cuban missile crisis in terms of high-stakes poker.
        ''The pleasant thing about 'Total Poker' is that while it teaches some of the finer points of playing, it also amuses,'' wrote Christopher Lehmann-Haupt, reviewing the book in The New York Times.
        Mr. Spanier's other books included  ''The Gambler's Pocket Book'' (1980), ''Total Chess'' (1984) and ''All Right, O.K., You Win: Inside Las Vegas'' (1992), also titled ''Welcome to the Pleasuredome.'' He recently completed a memoir, ''The Hand I Played.''
        Since 1997 he had written a weekly poker column for The Independent, a daily newspaper in London. ''The Little Book of Poker,'' a collection of these columns, appeared last year. He  was also the chess correspondent for  The Daily Telegraph of London.
        Mr. Spanier, who could sit for hours at a card table without displaying a trace of emotion, gave special meaning to the expression ''poker-faced.'' He was a familiar figure at casinos all over the world, especially in London and Las Vegas, where he attended the annual world poker championships.
        David Graham Spanier was born in London on April 30, 1932, the son of a stockbroker. He was educated at Charterhouse and Trinity College at Cambridge University, where he was introduced to poker. He worked for The Yorkshire Post before joining The Times of London in 1957. There he  had a long career, writing about the Common Market from Brussels and other aspects of European economic  and diplomatic affairs.
        In 1972 he published ''Europe, Our Europe,'' chronicling the negotiations leading up to Britain's decision to join the European Economic Community, as it was then called, in 1973.
        In 1982 Mr. Spanier left The Times of London to join the London radio news station LBC as diplomatic correspondent and to concentrate on writing about gambling.
        He is survived by his wife, Suzy Menkes, fashion editor of The International Herald Tribune, and three sons.
      