
        Robert L. B. Tobin, a Texas art collector and patron who built one of the most important theater design collections in the country, died on Wednesday at a hospital in San Antonio. He was 66.
        The cause was complications from cancer, said his friend and lawyer, Bruce Bugg. He said that Mr. Tobin,  who had been ill for years, had been arranging until the end how to give away more of his large art collection.
        Mr. Tobin served on the boards of the Metropolitan Opera in New York and the Santa Fe Opera. He was also on the boards of the Museum of Modern Art and of the Spoleto Festival in Italy. He endowed libraries and museums, underwrote operas, sponsored symphony premieres and championed artists and composers in many places.
        The major beneficiary of his philanthropy was the McNay Art Museum in San Antonio. Mr. Tobin's mother, the late Margaret Batts Tobin, was president of the museum's board of trustees for many years. She built a special wing for the museum on the 50th birthday of Mr. Tobin, her only son.
        Mr. Tobin filled it with his collection  of theater art and design. The wing includes the original drawings and models for Broadway productions like  ''South Pacific'' and ''Into the Woods.'' The collection features more than 1,000 set and costume designs.
        ''He and his mother were two of the most generous patrons of the arts I have ever known,'' said Beverly Sills, chairwoman of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, saying Mrs. Tobin underwrote the production of ''The Siege of Corinth'' in which she made her debut at the Metropolitan Opera.
        Mr. Tobin served as chairman of the McNay's board from 1990 until his death, and helped the museum acquire  work by Rodin, George Grosz, Arthur Dove, Albert Gleiz, Toulouse-Lautrec,  Rene Magritte, Henry Moore and David Hockney.
        Mr. Tobin was born in San Antonio on March 12, 1934, the son of Edgar Tobin, founder of Tobin Aerial Mapping Company, which later became Tobin Aerial Surveys. He discovered  his love for the theater and opera as a teenager. He attended the University of Texas at Austin. When his father died in an airplane crash in 1954, Robert Tobin joined the family business, which made maps for the oil industry.
        Mr. Tobin and his mother were friends of Marion Koogler McNay, who established the McNay museum in her former home, a Mediterranean villa, in 1954. After his mother built the  wing, Mr. Tobin gave the McNay more than 8,000 books, dating from the Renaissance to the present, to establish the Tobin Library.
        He began collecting art as a young adult, and soon became a patron of cultural institutions in New York and Santa Fe, where he maintained homes. With his 6-foot-6 frame, long white hair and beard and his flamboyant opera capes, he became a familiar and dramatic presence on the art scene.
        His primary residence in recent  years was his family estate in San Antonio called Oakwell, on the Salado Creek. About 100 friends gathered there last month to celebrate Mr. Tobin's 66th birthday with a party that the honoree was too ill to attend.
        William J. Chiego, the director of the McNay, said though Mr. Tobin could not attend the party, he asked to see his guests one by one; they were shuttled from one house on the estate where the party was held to the house  where Mr. Tobin lay in bed.
        On his birthday the previous year, Mr. Tobin bequeathed a $3 million gift of Russian theater designs to the McNay. It was the first phase of a five-year gift that will continue. The second part of the gift to the museum arrived this month. It was a collection of 20th-century American theater designs and 30 American paintings.
        Mr. Tobin, who leaves no immediate survivors, once tried to explain his love of collecting. ''It's a constant search for that moment when lightening strikes,'' he said.
      