
        Dr. Milton Brutten, a clinical psychologist and an early leader in the field of special education who also collected contemporary art, died on March 16 at an assisted-living center in Devon, Pa. He was 77 and lived in Philadelphia.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said his wife, Dr. Helen M. Herrick.
        Dr. Brutten was born in Manhattan and grew up in Brooklyn, where he graduated from Brooklyn College. He did graduate work in Spanish literature at Princeton University until he was drafted into the Army during World War II.
        After the war he earned a doctorate in speech and language audiology from Northwestern University. Pooling course work from Northwestern,  Temple University and the University of Pennsylvania, he also earned a degree in clinical psychology and became a certified school psychologist.
        Dr. Brutten was an expert in dyslexia who frequently consulted with public and private schools and with families trying to obtain appropriate educational services and placement for their children. In 1960 he and Henry Evans, an educator, founded the Vanguard School, one of the first private schools in the country for  children with learning disabilities, in the Philadelphia suburb of Paoli.
        His book, ''Something's Wrong With My Child,'' published in 1973 and written with Charles Mangel and Dr. Sylvia Richardson, was widely considered one of the premier books on learning disabilities of its time.
        In 1977 Dr. Brutten founded the Crossroad School for dyslexic students, also in Paoli. Over the years he served on the boards of many professional organizations, taught at Bryn Mawr College and Temple and directed the Commonwealth Hearing and Speech Center at St. Christopher's Hospital for Children. Until his retirement three years ago, he also had a private practice in Radnor, Pa.
        Acting on a lifelong interest in art, Dr. Brutten and his wife collected during the 1970's, 80's and early 90's. They bought work by a wide range of artists, including Joel Shapiro, Katherine Porter, Robert Smithson, Christopher Wilmarth, Cynthia Carlson, Bill Jensen and Jene Highstein.
        Dr. Brutten served on the boards of the Morris Gallery of the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts and the  Institute of Contemporary Art at the University of Pennsylvania.
        In addition to his wife, a retired teacher of hearing-impaired children, Dr. Brutten is survived by three children from his first marriage: two sons, Eric, of Stamford, Conn., and Marc, of Rancho Sante Fe, Calif.; a daughter, Dr. Maya Paul of Churchville, Md., and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 6, 2000, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Dr. Milton Brutten, a clinical psychologist and authority on dyslexia, omitted a survivor. He is a brother, Gene Brutten of Winter Springs, Fla.
        The obituary also misstated the year that Dr. Brutten founded the Vanguard School in Paoli, Pa., for children with learning disabilities. It was 1959, not 1960.
      