
        John Milner, an outfielder-first baseman who played on pennant-winning teams with the Mets in 1973 and the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1979, died on Tuesday at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta. He was 50.
        The Mets said that Milner, who lived in the Atlanta suburb of East Point, had cancer.
        An Atlanta native, Milner grew up idolizing Hank Aaron and became known as the Hammer, playing off the baseball home-run king's nickname, Hammerin' Hank. Milner had flashes of power, leading the Mets in home runs in his first three full years in the majors, and hitting 131 homers over 12 seasons, with the Mets, Pirates and Montreal Expos.
        An all-state high-school athlete in baseball, football and basketball, Milner was signed for the Mets by Julian Morgan, who had signed the Mets' left fielder Cleon Jones.
        After appearing briefly with the Mets in 1971, Milner become a regular the following season, playing in the same outfield with Jones and becoming the first Mets rookie to get five hits in a single game.
        Milner hit 23 home runs and drove in 72 runs in 1973, when the Mets won the National League pennant, then lost to the Oakland A's in the World Series. He would be plagued, however, by hamstring problems, and wound up with the Pirates in 1978 in a four-team, 11-player trade.
        In June 1978, Milner hit a grand-slam homer to beat the Mets in 12 innings, but professed no special satisfaction. ''I had six good years in New York, so I'm not bitter,'' he said. ''The Mets are rebuilding -- that's all right.''
        Milner had 16 homers, 60 runs batted in and a .276 batting average for Pittsburgh's 1979 team, known as ''We Are Family,'' which defeated the Baltimore Orioles in seven games to win the World Series.
        He retired after the 1982 season with a .249 career batting average.
        A left-handed batter, Milner liked to stand over the plate, something that caused a confrontation one day between the St. Louis Cardinals' Bob Gibson, one of baseball's more intimidating pitchers, and the Mets' Tom Seaver.
        ''He crowded the plate so much, he'd fall to the other side when he swung the bat,'' Gibson remembered. ''I wouldn't allow that. To make sure he understood, I hit him on the body with a pitch during a spring training game. When we faced the Mets again, in regulation play, Tom Seaver threw at me three times. I took a few steps toward him and shouted, 'You got better control than that, buddy.' And he yelled back, 'So do you.' It was revenge for my hitting Milner.''
        Milner was back in the public eye in September 1985, when he testified at two federal drug trials in Pittsburgh in which the defendants were convicted of selling cocaine to major league players.
        In the first trial, Milner said he had purchased two grams of cocaine from the defendant, a Philadelphia man, during a game in 1980, while he was in the Pirates' clubhouse at Three Rivers Stadium. In the second trial, Milner testified that he used cocaine during the final four seasons of his major league career and shared it with Pirate teammates.
        Milner is survived by his mother, Addie Lee Milner, and a sister, Sharon Milner, both of East Point.
      