
        Sir Robert Sainsbury, patron of the arts and a son of the dynasty that turned a collection of grocery stores into one of Britain's biggest supermarket chains, died on Sunday, the company said. He was 93.
        His lifetime spanned an innovative and troubled century, whose changes in taste and lifestyle Sir Robert turned into opportunity. As an avid collector of art, he was one of the first to embrace such iconoclastic artists as the sculptor Henry Moore and the painter Francis Bacon.
        And, in the postwar business world, he and his assertive older brother, Alan, adopted what was then seen as a novel import from the United States: self-service stores, the forerunner of supermarkets, which, with wide aisles and checkout areas, offered a striking contrast to the tiled walls and marble counters of traditional Sainsbury emporiums.
        In the retail trade, Sir Robert was generally viewed as the more retiring of the two brothers, concentrating on finance, administration and personnel matters and focusing on improving working conditions for the staff, complementing the rise of the postwar state welfare system, which both brothers supported. Indeed, some thought him too philanthropic.
        But in the art world, his collection became legend both for its range and his knack of acquiring work by artists well before wider recognition of their talent pushed up prices. He bought the first two drawings by Alberto Giacometti for $:5 each. When he bought Henry Moore's ''Mother and Child'' in 1933, the $:160 he paid -- then equivalent to $560 or so -- constituted half of the sculptor's annual earnings at the time. A small bronze by Degas, bought for a relatively modest sum in Paris in 1938, was estimated to be worth $10 million in 1989.
        He always denied that he saw art as an investment or as a symbol of status, insisting that he was driven solely by personal taste. ''I look at a work and my stomach tells me I want to have it, nothing else,'' he once remarked. His wife, Lisa, said that if people wanted status symbols, ''you'd do much better to buy half a horse -- or a football team.''
        Robert James Sainsbury was born on Oct. 24, 1906, a grandson of John James Sainsbury, who founded the family's first store at 173 Drury Lane in London in 1869. The dynasty now ranks as one of Britain's wealthiest and most illustrious, studded with knighthoods and peerages. The company, first listed on the stock exchange in 1973, owns almost 400 stores and is now embroiled with other supermarket chains in a price-cutting war led by Wal-Mart. Sir Robert's son, David, is Lord Sainsbury of Turville, a former head of the supermarket chain and a junior minister at the Department of Trade and Industry in Tony Blair's Labor government
        After an education at Haileybury College and Cambridge University, and training as an accountant, Sir Robert joined the family business in 1930. He and his brother became joint general managers in 1938 after his father suffered a mild heart attack. He remained with the company until 1969 when he retired as chairman, helping steer it through the lean, rationed years of World War II and to its postwar prosperity.
        He was knighted for his service to the arts in 1967.
        But it was only in 1973 that his love of the arts was translated into a permanent institution as he and his wife donated hundreds of artworks and $:3 million to the University of East Anglia, near Norwich, to found the Sainsbury Center for the Visual Arts, built to a design by the British architect Norman Foster.
        Opened in 1978, the collection now houses about 1,200 works, ranging from paintings by Picasso and Bacon to art from Africa, Polynesia and elsewhere.
        Besides his wife and son, Sir Robert is survived by two daughters. A third daughter died before him.
      