
        William R. Hamilton, a Democratic political consultant and pollster who worked in more than 400 election campaigns, including four for president, died on Saturday at a hospital in Fernandina Beach, Fla. He was 61 and lived on nearby Amelia Island.
        The cause was lung cancer, said David A. Beattie, Mr. Hamilton's partner in the firm of Hamilton Beattie & Staff.
        Interviewed yesterday, the Democratic pollster Peter D. Hart described Mr. Hamilton's entry into the political consulting business in 1964 as an event that paved the way for a  new generation of polling experts.
        Indeed, Mr. Hamilton, having begun his career at a time when polls were essentially seen as little more than snapshots of the feelings of the broad electorate, helped make them strategic tools that allowed candidates to define and refine messages and pitch them to specific groups of voters.
        Mr. Hamilton did polling for four Democratic presidential contenders: Hubert H. Humphrey in 1968, Edmund Muskie in 1972, John Glenn in 1984 and Bruce Babbitt in 1988. Among the Senate candidates he worked for were Lloyd Bentsen, Bob Graham, Adlai Stevenson, Paul Sarbanes and Thomas Eagleton. In one of his last successful campaigns, in 1998, he helped State Representative Roy Barnes win his race for governor of Georgia.
        He also did strategic surveys for trade organizations and research institutions. His polls became a basis for the ''Harry and Louise'' commercials, which the insurance industry used to derail the Clinton administration's proposal for universal health care.
        In a conversation yesterday, his partner, Mr. Beattie, defended that choice of sides, saying the polls had shown that President Clinton's approach was politically untenable and therefore had to be abandoned.
        Mr. Hamilton himself was no stranger to bluntness: in the very first campaign of his career, he told the client, a Florida politician, that the effort was hopeless, a practice he followed through the years whenever he thought the numbers meant failure.
        Pollsters tend to work for the candidates of only one party, and Mr. Hamilton never veered from working for moderate Democrats or, in his foreign campaigns (most recently in Denmark and Sweden), their equivalents.
        As president and chairman of the American Association of Political Consultants, he helped devise and promote a code of ethics for polling professionals.
        ''He spent a long career trying to make this an industry,'' Mr. Beattie said, ''rather than a disparate group of cowboys doing their own thing.''
        Mr. Hamilton also had rigorous personal standards when screening prospective clients, Mr. Beattie said, and recently rejected an offer to do research for the tobacco giant Philip Morris. He quit smoking about 10 years ago.
        William R. Hamilton was born in Orlando and graduated from the University of Florida, where he also received a master's degree in political science. When he was 23, he began doing polling work in his home state. He built a political consulting business in Washington but moved back to Florida in the mid-1990's.
        In addition to his wife, Anne Thibault, who worked closely with him professionally, he is survived by his mother, Dorothy Hamilton; his brothers, Brian and Alan, and his sister, Patricia Pekins. Except for Ms. Thibault, all live in Orlando.
      