
        The Rev. Robert Ross Johnson, a leading clergyman in Queens for nearly four decades and a former chaplain for the New York City Department of Correction, died on March 29 at a hospital in Atlanta. He was 79 and had moved to Atlanta in 1991.
        He suffered a long illness, his family said.
        Mr. Johnson was the founding pastor of the St. Albans Congregational Church, which was established in 1953 and thrived in a black middle-class neighborhood of Queens. Its A-frame structure on Linden Boulevard was designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, and Mr. Johnson preached from its pulpit until retiring in 1990.
        Long active in civic and community affairs, Mr. Johnson was a prison chaplain for 23 years and was on his local school board. In 1969, Mayor John V. Lindsay appointed him to the city's Board of Higher Education.
        He founded the Human Relations Center of St. Albans to serve southeastern Queens with cultural and social programs. The center is now known as the Robert Ross Johnson Family Life Center.
        Born in Spokane, Wash., Mr. Johnson majored in social science with a premedical minor at Whitworth College in Spokane, from which he graduated in 1943. He received a Master of Divinity degree from Colgate-Rochester Divinity School in 1946.
        Mr. Johnson was pastor of the Second Baptist Church in Le Roy, N.Y., and co-minister of the interracial South Congregational Church in Chicago. He came to Brooklyn in 1952 to lead the Nazarene Congregational Church in Bedford-Stuyvesant but was asked the following year to start a Congregational church in St. Albans.
        He was a founder of York College in Jamaica, Queens; a founding director of the Queens Inter-Faith Clergy Council; a former director of the N.A.A.C.P. and Y.M.C.A. boards; and a member of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
        Mr. Johnson is survived by his wife of 54 years, Ernestine Norwood Johnson; a daughter, Michele J. Tompkins, of Atlanta; two sons, Stephen R., of Manhattan, and John E., of Atlanta; and three grandchildren.
      