
        Donald Townsend, who founded the Tad's Steakhouse chain in 1957 on the theory that a T-bone, baked potato, garlic bread and a tossed salad could be profitably sold for $1.09, died March 25 in a Reno hospital. He was 91.
        Little matter that the meat might be cardboard thin, with clumps of fat and sinew. For a tenth the price of a fancy steak dinner, a working man could watch his hunk of steer searing under leaping, hissing flames in Tad's front window -- ''a steak show'' in Mr. Townsend's memorable phrase. He could then savor it beneath red velvet wallpaper and fake Tiffany lamps, dousing it with as much steak sauce as seemed prudent. At Tad's peak, the chain had 28 restaurants, eight in New York.
        The concept had legs. Adjusted for inflation, the $1.09 price in 1957 would be $6.50 now, just 49 cents below today's price. The Riese Organization, which bought Tad's in 1988, will open a new Tad's in the new Times Square, its fifth in New York. If all goes well, Riese hopes to expand nationally once again.
        The appeal of Mr. Townsend's idea was evident at lunchtime the other day at the Tad's on 42nd Street between Broadway and the Avenue of the Americas. One man said he rode the subway at least once a week from his home in the Bronx to eat in the restaurant. A family from St. Louis said they had dropped in because they like the Tad's in their hometown, one of the few still open outside of New York. Kathryn Calise, who works in a nearby office, said: ''The food is good. The price is good. It's comfortable.''
        Mr. Townsend's office was once directly over this restaurant. He had two secretaries, one to handle business and the other to schedule polo and the other elements of his brisk social life.
        Mr. Townsend was born in North Dakota in 1908. His father, a rancher, died when he was 7. As the oldest of five children, he went to work training trick ponies and helping haul coal. In his teens, he went to Washington State, where he worked as a logger until an injury to his little finger ended his logging career.
        He scrambled from job to job, selling diet pills in Australia and opening some of Northern California's first drive-in restaurants, among other things. For a brief time in his 20's he worked for Borden's. One day, his boss, irritated at his off-the-job business activities, demanded, ''Are you working for Borden's, or are you working for Don Townsend?''
        ''I guess I'm working for Don Townsend,'' came the reply. He never worked for anybody else again.
        In 1957, Mr. Townsend joined with his brother Neal and a friend, Alan Tadeus Kay, to open the first Tad's, its name taken from Mr. Kay's middle name. Mr. Kay died soon afterward.
        Mr. Townsend told the writer Sandra Hochman, who was his companion for many years, that Tad's was based on several foundations besides the ''steak show.'' One was marinating the meat in papaya juice to tenderize inferior cuts of meat. Another was inventing tiles that looked like charcoal over which to cook the meat; it was cleaner than charcoal and allowed more even levels of heat.
        Tad's hired no advertising or public relations consultants, relying instead on word-of-mouth recommendations. There were no waiters, further cutting costs. Customers carried their own trays.
        Fortune magazine called Mr. Townsend ''the grandfather of the fast foods business,'' and Ray Kroc, who built McDonald's into a powerhouse, conferred with Mr. Townsend. One piece of advice Mr. Kroc got: ''You make more money selling to the Indians and not to the chiefs.''
        Mr. Townsend and his brother later became involved in more business ventures, including selling blue-green algae as a nutritional supplement and marketing geothermal energy. In the late 1940's, he developed an entire town, Cameo Acres, near San Francisco. He liked to say that the centerpiece of his business strategy was, ''Get the money up front.''
        Mr. Townsend lived in New York for 35 years; he moved to Reno to be nearer his family after selling Tad's. With his immaculate dress, shock of white hair and twinkling blue eyes, he was active in fund-raising for the arts and politics. His own dining preferences tended more toward Le Cirque than Tad's.
        His sense of humor could be wicked. He once had a denim jacket made with a heart on the back, his phone number smack in the middle. Ms. Hochman, who lived with the millionaire at the time, remembered being less than charmed.
        Mr. Townsend's first wife, Lois, died many years ago; their sons, Lance, of Hawaii, and Gordon, of Northern California, and their daughter, Donna Searby of Reno, survive him. His second wife, Leila Townsend, from whom he was divorced, returned to be with him in his final years, although they did not remarry.
        At the 42nd Street Tad's, the man who regularly visits from the Bronx expressed pleasure that Tad's had survived the automats and other New York City institutions like Orange Juliuses, which once seemed to stand on every other corner. He saw no reason to give his name, but said he was 59 and worked as a supervisor for the Transit Authority.
        ''This reminds me of when I was a youngster,'' he said. ''Tad's Steakhouse is a monument.''
      