
        Solomon Barkin, a retired labor economist and professor emeritus at the University of Massachusetts who wrote prodigiously about working people, died on March 29 at his home in Leverett, Mass. He was 92.
        Professor Barkin spent 25 years in the labor movement, from 1937 to 1963, as director of research for the Textile Workers Union, now part of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees. For the next five years, he was a manpower specialist and head of the social-affairs division of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris.
        He taught economics at Amherst from 1968 to 1978, when he was given emeritus status. Then he was a visiting professor of economics at Erasmus University in Rotterdam, the Netherlands, and a senior Fulbright professor at Victoria University in Wellington, New Zealand.
        A native New Yorker, Professor Barkin graduated from City College in 1928 and received an M.A. degree at Columbia University in 1929. After stints as a City College instructor and assistant director of the State Commission on Old Age Security in Albany, he served on the labor advisory board of the National Recovery Administration and as a specialist in industrial economics in the Department of Commerce.
        His published work started in 1930 with a study of old-age security and extended into the 1980's when he sat on the editorial boards of the Journal of Economic Issues and the French-language edition of Relations Industrielles, where he continued until 1991. He also helped edit periodicals like Technical Change and Manpower Planning, Arbitration Journal and International Labor.
        His experiences were reflected in the book ''The Decline of the Labor Movement and What Can Be Done About It'' (1961), in which he argued that unions were getting bogged down in administering contracts to the detriment of their role as instruments of change.
        His other books included ''Worker Militancy and its Consequences, 1965-75'' (1975). An updated edition, subtitled ''The Changing Climate of Western and Industrial Relations,'' appeared in 1983.
        Mr. Barkin is survived by his wife of 59 years, Elaine Rappaport Barkin; two sons, David, of Mexico, and Dr. Roger Barkin of Denver; a daughter, Amy Barkin of Bethesda, Md., and three grandsons.
      