
        Tommaso Buscetta, the first important Italian mob leader to break the Mafia oath of silence and whose testimony helped convict hundreds of Mafia leaders in Italy and the United States, died of cancer on Sunday, his Italian lawyer, Luigi Liggotti, said. He was 71 and lived at an undisclosed location under the American witness protection program.
        Italy's best known ''pentito,'' the Italian word for a penitent is now used to describe Mafia informers, Mr. Buscetta was an early, ruthless pioneer in the Sicilian Mafia's turn to drug trafficking. His decision in 1984 to cooperate with Italian and, later, American prosecutors changed the course of a dark chapter of modern Italian history.
        Mr. Buscetta's testimony about heroin smuggling in the ''pizza connection'' case in the mid-1980's won him American citizenship, a place in the witness protection program and the gratitude of Italian and American officials. Notoriety gave him a  forum for disingenuous expiation.
        ''Over the years, I have seen our organization change from within,'' Mr. Buscetta, speaking behind a screen, told senators at a hearing on organized crime in 1988. ''I have seen money, drugs and greed corrupt and destroy the cosa nostra code of honor and loyalty to the families.''
        His career as a mobster-turned-state's witness spanned the highs and lows of Italy's long bloody battle against organized crime. The government's reliance on pentiti culminated in 1993 with the arrest of Salvatore Riina, whom Mr. Buscetta identified as the head Sicilian Mafia.
        But it reached its nadir in August 1995, when Mr. Buscetta, under Italian government protection to testify against former Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti, was photographed by a journalist on a Mediterranean cruise ship, sunbathing and mamboing in the ship's ballroom.
        Mr. Andreotti was found not guilty of colluding with Mafia chieftains in two trials last year, partly because the testimony of Mr. Buscetta, who mentioned Mr. Andreotti's reported intimacy with mob leaders eight years after he had entered witness protection was hearsay.
        Mr. Andreotti, seven times prime minister and one of Italy's most powerful postwar politicians, noted Mr. Buscetta's passing with his customary dryness.
        ''I was pleased the state helped him try all the cures,'' he told reporters on Tuesday. ''It would have been very serious if his illness had stopped him from attending my trials.''
        Mr. Buscetta, a son of a Sicilian glazier, began his criminal career in the black market after World War II, moved to Argentina in 1948 and then back to Sicily to join the Mafia in 1957. He fled mob turf wars and local law enforcement in 1962 and was on the lam for 10 years, until he was arrested in Rio de Janeiro on international drug-trafficking charges and extradited to Sicily, where he served eight years in jail.
        His release coincided with a fierce power struggle between his clan and Mr. Riina's mob, a bloodbath that cost him many relatives, including two sons. Mr. Buscetta again fled to Brazil, where he was arrested in 1983. Learning that he was about to be extradited back to Italy, Mr. Buscetta made an unsuccessful suicide attempt by swallowing strychnine.
        In 1984, three days after his plane had landed here, he told a top Mafia prosecutor, Giovanni Falcone, words that quickly became famous: ''I am a mafioso.'' He began talking and did not stop for 45 days.
        Mr. Buscetta, a self-described ''man of honor'' in the Mafia hierarchy, did not provide investigators just names and dates. He painted an intimate portrait of the means and mores of the cosa nostra, explaining the sometimes complex, often feudal rituals, codes and castes below the surface of organized crime.
        Two years later, Mr. Falcone and a fellow prosecutor, Paolo Borsellino, won the first ''maxitrial'' in Sicily, putting hundreds of mobsters behind bars. But that victory unleashed a decade of unbridled violence, as the Mafia brazenly challenged the state, killing judges, prosecutors and local officials. Mr. Falcone and Mr. Borsellino, two highly most respected magistrates, were assassinated within two months of each other in 1992.
        In 1996, Mr. Riina was convicted of conspiring in the murder of Mr. Borsellino and five bodyguards, and the next year he was convicted of ordering the assassination of Mr. Falcone, his wife and three bodyguards.
        Mr. Buscetta, who had three wives in three countries and seven children, was so famous here that he earned a certain cachet. In 1994, the design house Dolce e Gabbana brought out a men's spring collection inspired by the mobster. It featured black pinstripe suits, shiny pointed shoes and black sunglasses.
        When his death became known on Tuesday, Mr. Buscetta was mourned by prosecutors and other officials as a hero of the war against organized crime, jarring accolades for a man who once described the ''liberating'' feeling that comes with pulling the trigger and watching an opponent fall.
        On the meaner streets of Palermo, however, the word ''buscetta'' has become a slang insult in the same the way ''sbirro'' is a pejorative term for a cop.
        ''I am not a pentito,'' Mr. Buscetta once told Enzo Biagi, one of the best-known journalists in Italy. ''I am a man who had to defend himself, and to do so had to tell the truth.''
      