
        Habib Bourguiba, who was president of Tunisia from 1957 to 1987 after leading the country to independence from France, died yesterday. He was 96 years old and lived in Monastir in eastern Tunisia.
        Mr. Bourguiba was a spectacularly durable Arab leader. He was also relatively moderate and pro-Western and did much to enhance women's rights in Tunisia.
        Often called the Supreme Combatant, he long dominated his North African nation as wholly as Nehru did India or Nasser did Egypt. In the early 1960's, after he consolidated power, he was asked about Tunisia's political system. ''The system? What system?'' he exclaimed cheerfully. ''I am the system.''
        Mr. Bourguiba, who had been the only president of independent Tunisia, acquired the title president for life in 1975. But in November 1987, at age 84, he was deposed in a bloodless coup. He was ousted by his new prime minister, Zine el-Abidine ben Ali, who declared that the president was too senile and ill to govern Tunisia's seven million people.
        Mr. ben Ali put Mr. Bourguiba under guard for a time in a villa outside Tunis and assumed the presidency himself.
        In the early years under Mr. Bourguiba, Tunisia evolved into one of the most politically tolerant Arab countries and was a showcase for development. Per-capita income and literacy soared.
        But in later years, appreciation of past accomplishments dimmed with disillusionment over high prices, low wages and high unemployment. At the same time, demands from opposing ends of the political spectrum shook confidence in his stewardship, which had often been marred by rigged elections.
        In his final years in power, Mr. Bourguiba took sweeping measures against Islamic militants, and he was deposed after he ordered retrials and death sentences for several of them. Mr. ben Ali and others feared that if the order were carried out it would bring on civil war.
        That crisis period was a far cry from Mr. Bourguiba's long heyday. For decade after decade, he was the fountainhead of Tunisian political life, first as the leader of the movement for independence and then, after independence came in 1956, as chief of state, modernizer, pioneer for women's rights and advocate of Arab moderation toward Israel.
        He was a flamboyant leader and a gifted orator, with his eyes flashing under his red fez, his jaw jutting, his arms flailing, his voice rising and falling, his passionate oratory building to make his points.
        But he was also a shrewd politician who often preferred to outmaneuver adversaries like French officials and Islamic conservatives rather than confront them. His tactics became known in the Paris press as Bourguibism, and they helped him retain his position as Tunisia's leader after the rulers of other Islamic nations -- the shah of Iran, the king of Libya, strongmen in Syria and Iraq -- were overthrown.
        Mr. Bourguiba's relatively restrained attitude did not come naturally in Tunisia, a nation the size of Louisiana on the Mediterranean coast between Algeria and Libya. Years of study in Paris had imbued him with a pattern of logical thinking, and as president he found it only logical to advocate restraint toward Israel, even after the Israeli victory in the 1967 war, when other Arab leaders were demanding revenge.
        In 1968, taking an approach somewhat resembling the one later adopted by Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger, Mr. Bourguiba advocated a phased solution to the Middle East conflict. But his proposals were ignored in Arab capitals.
        Some months before the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, he called for a ''just and lasting peace,'' citing Israel's right ''not to be exterminated and thrown into the sea.'' But in 1973 as in 1967, he sent a token military force to show his support for the Arab side.
        And when the guerrillas of the Palestine Liberation Organization left West Beirut in 1982 after an Israeli invasion, Tunisia -- despite misgivings -- was among the Arab countries that took them in. About 1,100 guerrillas arrived by sea at Bizerte to a tumultuous welcome. The chief greeter was Mr. Bourguiba, waving from the dock.
        The Bourguiba government also let the P.L.O. set up its headquarters in Tunis, which was already the headquarters of the Arab League.
        Soon after Tunisia became independent, Mr. Bourguiba used his power to achieve a major gain for women. He pushed through a ''code of personal status'' that ran counter to traditional Muslim jurisprudence and custom in enhancing women's rights.
        Polygamy was outlawed. Marriage was redefined as a voluntary contract that conferred rights upon the wife as well as the husband. A minimum age for marriage was established, and the consent of the bride was made mandatory. These stipulations in effect outlawed the traditional practice of selling young girls. They also underscored the modern concept of marriage as a bond between individuals rather than an alliance between families.
        Mr. Bourguiba also sought improvement in the lot of his country's seminomadic tribesmen. In a speech to a tribal audience in 1960, he evoked a theme beloved of the Arab historians, the contrast between desert and city life, in urging the audience to ''follow the directions of your government so that your children and grandchildren may accede to city life -- or else you can remain attached to a primitive type of life, which condemns you to vegetate on the margins of society.''
        Habib ben Ali Bourguiba was a product of urban society. He was born on Aug. 3, 1903, in Monastir, the ancient port in the east, the youngest of eight children in a family of low-ranking civil servants. He went to school in Tunis, and an older brother provided the money for him to go to Paris in 1924 to study law, political science and French literature.
        During three years in France he also became a theater buff and married a Frenchwoman, Mathilde Lorrain, who was 13 years his senior. He divorced her in 1961.
        Returning to Tunis, Mr. Bourguiba practiced law, wrote for Tunisian newspapers and plunged into politics. He was a founder of the nationalist Neo-Destour Party in 1934 and was repeatedly imprisoned for his political activities. He spent half the years from 1934 to 1954 in jail.
        He was elected prime minister in 1956, the year Tunisia became independent, and was chosen president by a constituent assembly in 1957. He was confirmed in the presidency in general elections two years later.
        The country had a relatively tranquil foreign policy during much of Mr. Bourguiba's era, but he supported the Algerian rebels in their revolt against France and plunged Tunisia into conflict with France in 1961 over the French base at Bizerte. After an outbreak of fighting between French and Tunisian forces, the French abandoned the base.
        Tunisia's relations with Libya were often strained. A merger with Libya was projected in 1974 but was never carried out. And in January 1980, a guerrilla attack in Gafsa, a Tunisian mining city, that was apparently instigated in Libya left 41 people dead.
        Mr. Bourguiba grew less vigorous and assertive with age, but he was elected president for life in 1975.
        Antigovernment rioting shook Tunis and other cities in January 1978, after inflation heated up the smoldering animosity between Mr. Bourguiba's party and Tunisia's labor unions. He remained secluded in his palace at Carthage, in the suburbs of Tunis, and calm was restored after more than 40 people were killed. The disorders heightened the speculation and uncertainty in Tunisia, even then, as to who would be his eventual successor.
        Faced with a growing challenge from fundamentalists, the government cracked down in September 1981 after militants made anti-Bourguiba speeches in mosques. Sixty-eight fundamentalist leaders were tried, convicted of defaming the president and sentenced to up to 12 years in prison.
        Later that year, Mr. Bourguiba's party allowed opposition groups to participate for the first time in elections to the National Assembly, but they won no seats. The opposition charged election fraud, but the government denied it.
        The decision to allow multiparty elections reportedly grew out of a concern over the apparent gains in popularity made by the fundamentalist critics of the government. One diplomat said Mr. Bourguiba was ''especially disturbed at what the fundamentalists are saying against him'' because he wanted to leave ''a legacy of stability and secularization.''
        Yet in the last years of the Bourguiba era, Tunisia was racked by economic problems and discontent, underscored by bread riots in 1984. Unemployment was painfully high, particularly among the young, and the government ran so short of foreign exchange that the International Monetary Fund had to come to its rescue in 1986.
        When he seized power, Mr. ben Ali said Mr. Bourguiba had ''become totally incapable of undertaking the duties of the presidency.''
        Soon afterward, Kamil Cherif, a senior official of the Information Ministry, cited examples of how Mr. Bourguiba's performance had deteriorated with age. He said that in October 1987 Mr. Bourguiba had appointed a new chief delegate to the United Nations, but had soon forgotten that appointment and named another man to the post. In the same month, Mr. Cherif said, Mr. Bourguiba appointed several cabinet ministers, only to contend the following day that he had not done so.
        The first free elections in independent Tunisia's history were held after Mr. Bourguiba's downfall, on April 10, 1989. He looked fragile, but his manner was jaunty when he cast his ballot in Monastir. ''It is a holiday for me,'' he told the journalists on hand for the occasion. ''I am voting for Mr. ben Ali and for the list of my party.''
        Mr. Bourguiba married in 1961 for a second time, to Wassila ben Ammar, a Tunisian from a prominent family. She came to be seen as a power within the presidency, and she sought a more open and democratic society and an orderly aftermath to Mr. Bourguiba's presidency. But he divorced her in 1986 after first banishing her. She died in 1999.
        Mr. Bourguiba is survived by a son, Habib Bourguiba Jr.
      