
        Enrique Espinoza, an artist who with Loretta Hines Howard created elaborate Christmas trees displayed annually at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the White House, died March 21 at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. A resident of Manhattan, he was 87.
        Mr. Espinoza began his association with Mrs. Howard in 1968. As a young girl, she began collecting 18th-century Neapolitan figures, and conceived their eventual use in a Christmas tree creche at the Metropolitan. Most of the creche figures, from 6 to 20 inches in height, were donated to the museum by Mrs. Howard before her death in 1982.
        For more than three decades, Mr. Espinoza was responsible for constructing and painting the landscape, framing the figures of the Nativity scene and designing the star perched on the top of the tree. He continued to assemble the tree until the year before his death.
        The tree, now a Christmas tradition in the museum's Medieval Sculpture Hall, has a sculpted base with a landscape of figures re-enacting Christ's nativity. Three sumptuously dressed magi are surrounded by their entourages and lifelike beasts of burden. The figure of the infant Jesus lies on a nest of straw, flanked by Mary and Joseph. Above them, suspended from the branches, about 50 large angels hover.
        During the Carter administration, Mr. Espinoza and Mrs. Howard also created a Christmas tree and creche for the White House. It is still displayed during the holiday season, as is another installation done for the Albright Knox Museum in Buffalo.
        Mr. Espinoza was born in Alpine, Tex., on Feb. 25, 1913, and attended the New Orleans Art Institute. During World War II, he served in the Army as an artist and painted battle scenes, which are now in the Army archives.
        He moved to Greenwich Village after the war, attended the New School and worked in what was a new field at the time, art therapy. Later, he became an art restorer and taught art.
        Mr. Espinoza is survived by a brother, Manuel Espinoza, and a sister, Adela Breeland, both of Odessa, Tex.
      