
        Sy Weintraub, the film producer who in the 1950's breathed new life into Tarzan's flagging celluloid career, died Tuesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 76.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer,  Reuters reported.
        Under the tutelage of Mr. Weintraub, who bought the rights to the Tarzan franchise in 1958, Edgar Rice Burroughs's jungle hero metamorphosed from a loincloth-wearing, knife-carrying, monosyllabic strongman into a well-mannered, soft-spoken, even introspective gentleman worthy of the new James Bond era.
        Mr. Weintraub decided that Tarzan would be more exciting to women without his all-American wife, Jane, so the character was discarded. Out, too, went the hokey safaris set on Hollywood studio back lots and the grunt-and-groan scripts.
        Mr. Weintraub's newfangled Tarzan was a man of the world, and his adventures were shot in color on locations in India, Kenya, Mexico and Thailand. His chimpanzee sidekick hung around just long enough for Tarzan to say ''So long, Cheetah'' after Mr. Weintraub discovered that the apes cast for the role were terrified of the real jungle. The loincloth stayed, but nary a yodel was heard from Jock Mahoney, the former stuntman who was the first of the new Tarzans, as he swung into action on a parachute rather than a vine.
        With borrowed money, Mr. Weintraub financed the films himself and then entered into distribution deals with studios under which he shared revenue and retained television rights and income, eventually amassing a fortune.
        Later Tarzans included Mike Henry, a former football player who appeared in ''Tarzan and the Valley of Gold,'' and Gordon Scott, in ''Tarzan's Greatest Adventure.'' Frank Gifford, then of the New York Giants, was reported to have turned down a chance to play Tarzan in 1964. Ron Ely donned the loincloth in the successful 1960's television series on NBC. Mr. Weintraub also lured such actors as Sean Connery, Anthony Quayle and Helen Hayes into Tarzan's new world.
        As his deal with the Burroughs estate neared an end in 1984, Mr. Weintraub turned to the daughter of another childhood literary hero, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, in pursuit of the rights to Sherlock Holmes. In 1983 he and the producer Otto Plaschkes made two Holmes films, ''The Hound of the Baskervilles'' and ''The Sign of Four,'' starring the British actor Ian Richardson as the famous sleuth. The films failed to find theater distribution and were shown on television.
        A native of New York, Mr. Weintraub served in the Army during World War II, directing Stars and Stripes productions, before working his way through the University of Missouri as a waiter, furnace stoker and sports writer. After completing a television production course at the American Theater Wing in New York, he borrowed $2,000 and helped to found Flamingo Films, a television syndication company.
        Over the years, Mr. Weintraub held the titles of chairman of the board of Panavision, president of the National General Television Corporation and chairman of the executive committee of the board of Columbia Pictures Industries.
        He is survived by two daughters, Lori Weintraub of Los Angeles and Cindy Shrieve of Seattle, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 17, 2000, Monday  An obituary last Monday about the Hollywood producer Sy Weintraub, who modernized the adventures of Tarzan after acquiring screen rights in 1958, misidentified the actor who played the role in the first two Weintraub productions. He was Gordon Scott. (Jock Mahoney was the first of Mr. Weintraub's Tarzans to appear in a non-African setting, in the 1962 film ''Tarzan Goes to India.'')
      