
        James Marston Fitch, an architect whose writings and teaching helped transform historic preservation from a dilettante's pastime into a vigorous, broadly based cultural movement, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90.
        Less interested in where Washington slept than in how ordinary people built their homes and workplaces -- and what lessons modern architects could draw from the most modest and common building types -- Mr. Fitch was the outspoken antithesis of a freeze-it-in-amber sentimentalist.
        Instead he argued that a respect for older buildings made environmental and economic sense. And he broadened the notion of what constituted important historical resources to include ''vernacular'' buildings, structures like the 19th-century cast-iron industrial lofts of SoHo, which were not designed in high style yet spoke eloquently about the cultures that created them.
        ''The ultimate task of architecture is to act in favor of human beings,'' Mr. Fitch said in the newly revised and updated edition of his 1947 work, ''American Building: The Environmental Forces That Shape It'' (Oxford University Press, 1999), written with William Bobenhausen.
        Jane Jacobs, a central figure in the  movement that repudiated the clean-slate planning strategies of the 1950's and 60's, said yesterday of Mr. Fitch, ''He was the principal character in making the preservation of historic buildings practical and feasible and popular.''
        ''He opened people's eyes,'' Ms. Jacobs said by telephone from Toronto, where she now lives. ''He didn't just relegate the need for preservation of the built environment to early examples, sacred styles and so forth. He was one of the first to see the value of Art Deco.'' But his enthusiasms were wide-ranging; he was also a founding member of the Victorian Society in America and was instrumental in saving the South Street Seaport in lower Manhattan.
        ''He made people understand that whole districts -- even with undistinguished buildings in them -- were worthy of preservation and appreciation,'' Ms. Jacobs said.
        Now taken for granted, such concepts were almost unheard of in 1964, when Mr. Fitch and the architect Charles Peterson founded a graduate program in restoration and preservation at Columbia University. Mr. Fitch headed the program until 1977, seeking as diverse a student body as he could find in the belief that preservation touched many lives and could profit from many different kinds of expertise and passion.
        ''The great forces in American preservation have always been the lay people,'' he said in a 1998 interview. ''Professional designers have, time and time again, retreated from the scene of battle. Preservationists are the people who fought tooth and nail.''
        Among his former students are Frank Sanchis, the executive director of the Municipal Art Society; John H. Stubbs, the vice president of the World Monuments Fund; and Adele Chatfield-Taylor, the president of the American Academy in Rome.
        As a man who led architectural tours with the cry ''Andiamo!'' (''Let's go!'') -- in the cadences of  Tennessee -- Mr. Fitch was scarcely the kind to retire at 68, when he stepped down from Columbia's Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation.
        His next career was as the director of historic preservation at the Manhattan architectural firm Beyer Blinder Belle.
        In the firm's recently completed renovation of Grand Central Terminal, Mr. Fitch advocated construction of a new staircase on the east end of the concourse to complement the existing staircase on the west.
        A preservation purist might have disputed such an intervention. But Mr. Fitch said: ''I tell you the logic of the plan suggested that there could have been a balancing stair there. That's the essence of the Beaux-Arts planning philosophy. We didn't violate the intentions of the builder.''
        That is not to say he was a pushover for alterations. When his own firm came up with a plan for Donald J. Trump to reclad the St. Moritz Hotel on Central Park South and the Avenue of the Americas, Mr. Fitch was opposed.
        When the firm was restoring the Cathedral of the Madeleine in Salt Lake City, Mr. Fitch ''got into incredible dialogues, telling the bishop how Catholic services should work,'' recalled Richard L. Blinder, a partner in Beyer Blinder Belle.
        Mr. Fitch was born in Washington on May 8, 1909, and grew up in Chattanooga. He attended the University of Alabama and the school of architecture at Tulane University. The Depression prevented him from finishing school but he was granted five honorary doctorates later in life.
        As an Air Force meteorologist in the second world war, he traced the effects of climate on people, information he later used to study how buildings relate to their environment.
        ''He was an environmentalist when we were doing glass buildings that had no relation to their environment,'' Mr. Blinder said.
        Before and after the war, Mr. Fitch was an editor at Architectural Record, Architectural Forum and House Beautiful in New York; he was appointed an associate professor at Columbia in 1954.
        Mr. Fitch's other books include ''Walter Gropius'' (1960), ''Architecture and the Esthetics of Plenty'' (1961) and ''Historic Preservation: Curatorial Management of the Built World'' (1982).
        His first wife, Cleo Rickman Fitch, an archaeological researcher, died in 1995. He is survived by his second wife, Martica Sawin, a critic and art historian, and three stepdaughters, Martica Douglas of Portland, Me.; Maggy Wolf, of New Orleans; and Gina Sawin, of New Gloucester, Me.
        Between spells together on the preservation battlefield in the 1960's, fighting the Lower Manhattan Expressway, which would have run along Broome Street, Ms. Jacobs recalled many evenings of conversation in their West Village homes.
        ''He was a great educator,'' she said, ''even when he wasn't in the classroom.''
      