
        James Vorenberg, a professor and former dean of Harvard Law School who played pivotal roles in watershed legal events including the Watergate investigation, died yesterday at a hospital in Boston. He was 72.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his wife, Elizabeth, said. Professor Vorenberg collapsed on Monday after he taught his law school class.
        A legal advocate who was identified with civil rights and a liberal approach to criminal justice issues, Professor Vorenberg's most visible public role came in summer 1973 when he was one of the senior assistants to the Watergate special prosecutor, Archibald Cox.
        ''I don't know what I would have done without him,'' Mr. Cox said yesterday.
        Professor Vorenberg, by then an  authority on criminal law who had extensive Washington experience, was selected by Mr. Cox to organize the office that had been established to investigate such matters as the burglary at Democratic Party headquarters at the Watergate complex and assertions of campaign sabotage by the committee to re-elect President Richard M. Nixon.
        Mr. Vorenberg's responsibilities on Mr. Cox's staff included administration and gathering a staff of accomplished young lawyers. He was one of those in Mr. Cox's office who settled on the approach of conducting a broad, multifaceted investigation that would, as it turned out, quickly put Mr. Cox on a collision course with the Nixon administration.
        ''We start with the assumption we'll look into everything,'' Professor Vorenberg told reporters on June 15 of that year, as the atmosphere of crisis grew in the nation's capital.
        By the time of the ''Saturday night massacre'' on Oct. 20, 1973, when Mr. Cox was dismissed in an effort by President Nixon to limit the Watergate investigation, Professor Vorenberg had become a part-time member of the special prosecutor's staff because he had returned to teaching at Harvard Law School.
        But Philip Heymann, another Harvard professor who was a senior member of Mr. Cox's staff, said yesterday that it was largely because of the organizational work done by Mr. Vorenberg that the special prosecutor's office was able to survive the political turmoil and continue the investigation that would lead to President Nixon's resignation.
        ''Jim was central to creating something that, from then on, was too powerful and too legitimate to be stopped,'' Professor Heymann said yesterday.
        Mr. Vorenberg's earlier work on the national level included serving as executive director from 1965 to 1967 of a commission appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson to study the growing problem of crime in America, the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of Justice. It was known as the Katzenbach Commission for its chairman, then Attorney General Nicholas deB. Katzenbach.
        The so-called Katzenbach report was one of the most comprehensive studies of modern criminal justice issues and it helped shape decades of policy with what were then novel ideas that crime was a complex problem with social roots.
        Mr. Katzenbach said yesterday that Professor Vorenberg, in his post as executive director of the commission's staff, had been the architect of many of the report's observations that fighting crime required solutions like rehabilitation services and larger court staffs that were far more complex than those that had been relied upon traditionally, such as simply increasing budgets for the police.
        ''It was a new insight,'' Mr. Katzenbach said, crediting Professor Vorenberg. ''It was significant because it pointed out to lay people that you didn't solve the problem by just putting police in. You had to have a balanced criminal justice system.''
        In more recent years, Professor Vorenberg continued legal scholarship on similar criminal justice issues. He published one widely noted academic article, for example, suggesting that the American tradition of giving prosecutors unfettered power had gone too far and proposing limits on their authority.
        At Harvard, where he taught criminal law and was director of the school's Center for the Advancement of Criminal Justice, he worked to broaden the police understanding of legal principles. One program that he sponsored brought police commanders to Harvard University for fellowships, and many officers who later became police chiefs are former fellows.
        Professor Vorenberg was named the dean of the Harvard Law School in 1981. His eight-year tenure was somewhat stormy because there were bitter disputes over tenure decisions involving professors who advocated a legal analysis known as critical legal studies, which asserted that law was not neutral, as had long been taught at establishment institutions like Harvard. Critical legal scholars say law is an oppressive tool of the rich and powerful. While the battles over critical legal studies were being waged, some black Harvard law students protested, saying that there were not enough minority members of the law school faculty.
        Professor Vorenberg was widely credited with keeping the venerable law school intact during that period. At the same time, he quietly assembled one of the most accomplished minority law school faculties in the country, a Harvard professor, Charles J. Ogletree Jr., said yesterday. ''Despite the tumultuous faculty upheavals of the 80's,'' Professor Ogletree said, ''Jim was very levelheaded in focusing on minority diversity and in attracting minority faculty members to Harvard Law School.''
        In many ways, Professor Vorenberg was the model of the well-credentialed and sober New England lawyer (although he was wry enough to publish a cookbook with a friend who was also a university dean, Jack Greenberg, and call it ''Dean Cuisine: The Liberated Man's Guide to Fine Cooking,'' Sheepmeadow Press, 1990.)
        Professor Vorenberg was son and grandson of presidents of the Gilchrist Company department store in Boston. He went to Phillips Exeter Academy, Harvard College and Harvard Law School, where he was president of The Law Review. He was a law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Felix Frankfurter in 1953 and 1954.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Jill Alberts of New York, Amy Vorenberg of Concord, N.H., and Eliza Vorenberg of Los Angeles; two stepchildren, Amy Troubh of Newton, Mass., and John Troubh of New York; and 10 grandchildren.
        His first marriage to the former Dorothy Greeley ended in divorce.
        Yesterday, some of his friends said he often played a role behind the scenes in helping his students and minority and women lawyers break through the barriers of a profession that had welcomed him easily. ''He played a powerful role in mentoring young, unknown lawyers. I was one of them,'' said Margaret H. Marshall, the chief justice of the highest court in Massachusetts, the Supreme Judicial Court. Chief Justice Marshall is the first woman to occupy that position.
        For the last 14 years Professor Vorenberg had been suffering from Parkinson's disease. Yesterday, his wife said that he never acknowledged that it slowed his step or made it more difficult for him to continue helping to bring young lawyers along. When his voice weakened to the point that he could no longer be heard in large lecture rooms, he simply started using a microphone.
      