
        Howard Simon, a playwright whose first major New York production opened on Sunday night, died on Wednesday at New York Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 37 and lived in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn.
        The cause was septic shock brought on by streptococcus meningitis, said Tracy Simon, his sister.
        Mr. Simon, who attended Morehouse College and studied in New York University's graduate-level dramatic writing department, was the author of at least nine plays, several of which were produced in small theaters around the country. Last month he began rehearsals for ''James Baldwin: A Soul on Fire,'' starring Charles Reese, which is receiving an Equity-scale production at Abrons Art Center at the Henry Street Settlement.
        The play chronicles a night in Baldwin's life prior to a 1963 meeting with Robert Kennedy. David DeWitt, writing in The New York Times, called the play ''funny, thrilling and wise.''
        Mr. Simon never saw his reviews, however. During the rehearsal process he had begun to suffer from severe headaches and a loss of equilibrium, Mr. Reese said, and he was admitted to the hospital on April 1. A day later he fell into a coma, and he never regained consciousness.
        A Cleveland native, Mr. Simon initially followed a career as a teacher, working in New York City public schools.
        In 1995 he was accepted to N.Y.U.'s graduate writing program, where he studied with Tony Kushner, Maria Irene Fornes and Migdalia Cruz. He received his master's degree in 1997, and his thesis play, ''One of the Children,'' was subsequently given a reading at SoHo Rep.
        Beyond his stage plays, Mr. Simon had also showed promise in television writing. His teleplay ''Just Passin' Through,'' about a black man impersonating a white man during the 1963 civil rights march on Washington, was nominated for a regional Emmy Award in 1999.
        In addition to his sister, he is survived by his grandparents, Margie and Henry Simon, and his father, Howard Acoff, all of Cleveland.
        In his stage biography, Mr. Simon concludes with a lengthy quote from Dr. Benjamin E. Mays, the educator. ''It is not a calamity to die with dreams unfulfilled,'' the quote reads. ''But it is a calamity not to dream.''
      