
        Gary Bellow, a Harvard Law School professor who was a pioneer in creating programs to meet the legal needs of the poor, died on Thursday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 64 and lived in Boston.
        The cause of death was complications from a heart transplant, said Dr. Charles J. Ogletree, a friend and Harvard Law School colleague.
        Soon after his appointment to the faculty of the Harvard Law School in 1972, Professor Bellow founded the Clinical Program, a law school version of the teaching hospital, so that law students, like medical students, would acquire skills by serving actual clients, and perhaps advance the cause of social justice as well.
        The Clinical Program, which started with one course, had expanded to nearly 20 by 1996, and more than half its students were taking part in clinical practice for academic credit.
        In an interview at the time, Professor Bellow said that the school should be proud not only of offering clinical programs in criminal and civil law, but that those programs had ''a service dividend'' in that they were providing legal services to 3,000 to 4,000 poor clients each year.
        Professor Bellow also said he believed that ''all lawyers have an obligation'' to make the legal system more accessible to those who cannot afford a lawyer, and that there should be ''pro bono requirements by law schools.''
        Professor Bellow's passion for giving poor people equal access to the legal system was ignited by the three years he spent in the District of Columbia Public Defender Service, beginning in 1962. ''We discovered,'' he later recalled, ''that the best legal education America had to offer  didn't teach us how to get someone out of a cell block. We figured it out ourselves and developed our own learning and teaching techniques.''
        He then spent two years as deputy director of the United Planning Organization, Washington's Community Action Program.
        In 1966, he became deputy director of the California Rural Legal Assistance program. He worked with migrant farmworkers in the San Joaquin Valley, including Cesar Chavez, the leader of the United Farm Workers, and came into sharp conflict with Gov. Ronald Reagan.
        In 1969, Professor Bellow was recruited by the University of Southern California to develop a clinical legal services program for its School of Law. Three years later, he came to Harvard.
        With his wife, Jeanne Charn, a Harvard Law School lecturer, he was a founder of and an instructor at the Hale and Dorr Legal Services Center of Harvard Law School, the school's major legal clinic in the Jamaica Plain neighborhood of Boston.
        Professor Bellow was born on June 9, 1935, in Brooklyn, N.Y. His family later moved to Lawrence, on Long Island.
        He graduated with honors from Yale in 1957 and from the Harvard Law School in 1960. He next spent two years at the Northwestern University School of Law, where he earned an LL.M. degree.
        In addition to his wife, Professor  Bellow is survived by two sons, Douglas, of Cambridge, Mass., and David, of Boston; a daughter, Courtenay Kettleson of Medford, Mass; and two sisters, Helaine Gould of Manhasset, on Long Island, and Bonnie Bellow of New York City.
        In the 1996 interview, Professor  Bellow said, ''On a personal level, what I still get the most satisfaction from is the day-to-day work on cases with students for people who otherwise would not have a lawyer.''
      