
        Dr. Edward B. C. Keefer, a surgeon who set up the first transplant bank for human blood vessels and was the first to fit a horse with an artificial leg, died on April 3 at his home in Brookville, N.Y. He was 84.
        In the 1950's, establishing a forerunner of today's organ banks, Dr. Keefer set up a bank of arteries taken from donors at their time of death for transplant into patients who needed them. He and other doctors had previously devised a procedure to graft arteries.
        The transplant bank was no longer needed after medical scientists learned how to make artificial blood vessels from Dacron.
        After retiring to his horse farm, Faux Pas Farm, in Brookville, Nassau County, Dr. Keefer ventured into a new field, saving injured thoroughbred horses that would have been destroyed. In 1973, this interest led him to make an artificial leg for Spanish Riddle, a stablemate of Secretariat. The horse was a successful stud stallion for the next five years.
        To push his mission of saving horses, he set up a foundation called the Equine Preservation Society. An article in Thoroughbred Times called him ''Racing's Miracle Worker.''
        As with the blood vessel bank, the foundation and its mission faded into obsolescence as techniques invented by Dr. Keefer came into widespread use by veterinarians.
        Edward Boyd Coltrin Keefer was born on Feb. 13, 1916, in Biltmore, N.C., where his father, a flier in the Canadian Air Force, was training. The family returned to the Toronto area, where Dr. Keefer studied at Trinity College School in Port Hope, Ontario. He graduated from McGill University's medical school in Montreal and was an intern at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston. During World War II, he served with the Canadian merchant marine and the Canadian Navy.
        He met his wife, Elizabeth Grimley, during the year she spent at McGill before going to Massachusetts to transfer to Wellesley College, from which she graduated. They settled in Fresh Meadows, Queens, when Dr. Keefer accepted a surgical position with Cornell, which was affiliated with New York Hospital.
        They bought their house in Brookville in 1952 from the master of the hounds at the Meadow Brook Fox Hounds, a hunt club. The master offered Dr. Keefer a chance to don a red jacket and chase foxes with the club if he would attend to the medical needs of riders who fell. Though he had never been a rider, he jumped at the chance and enjoyed the hunting ritual immensely.
        Dr. Keefer was told that one of the club's horses had cancer of the anal gland and was going to be destroyed. He studied equine anatomy in a book and found that it was fairly similar to human anatomy. He removed the cancer, and the horse lived for three years until the cancer recurred and spread.
        Dr. Keefer continued to work with horses over the years, assisting any way he could. In his spare time away from New York Hospital, he began to work on tendon repair with Dr. Bud Wright, a veterinarian at Belmont Park.
        One day, Dr. Wright had his assistant call Dr. Keefer and ask if he could offer any assistance on Hoist the Flag, a top 2-year-old in 1970. He had injured himself so severely in a fall that the insurance company had already announced that he would be put down that afternoon. Dr. Keefer was part of the team that saved him.
        In 1973, Dr. Keefer was called to aid Spanish Riddle, a 4-year-old with torn tendons and ligaments and broken bones in a lower leg. As gangrene set in, the hoof fell off.
        On Oct. 28, 1973, the same day Spanish Riddle's stablemate, Secretariat, won his last race, the Canadian International Championship Stakes, Dr. Keefer amputated Spanish Riddle's leg just above the hoof.
        ''I had never devised an artificial leg before,'' Dr. Keefer said in an interview in Thoroughbred Times. ''I went to a guy who built them at the Hospital for Special Surgery, who happened to be an amputee himself. He was a great help to me.
        ''I also went to see a blacksmith. You can't use a human prosthesis because the kind of plastic they use wouldn't support a horse. I picked everybody's brain. The blacksmith taught me how to weld, and I wound up constructing the artificial leg right here at home. It was basically made of leather with a steel brace. I didn't know if it would work or not. I just hoped to God.''
        Less than six months after the surgery, Spanish Riddle was sent to the Virginia Stallion Station to begin stud duties. Not only was he the first horse with an artificial leg, but he became a successful sire. His daughter, Love Sign, earned $934,827 in the early 1980's.
        ''Because of this animal's tremendous courage and intelligence,'' Dr. Keefer said in Newsday in 1985, ''he deserves most of the credit. I saw this horse gallop on an artificial leg. He was awkward, but he could gallop. That was a thrill, a great reward.''
        Dr. Keefer went on to save around a dozen more horses, but in 1975 was unable to save Ruffian, one of the most successful fillies in racing. Her bones were shattered like glass from a fall, but Dr. Keefer fitted her with an experimental brace; a blacksmith then anchored it by nailing a  shoe to Ruffian's foot.
        In the recovery room, the horse began jerking violently as she came out of anesthesia. She cast aside the men trying to hold her like so many rag dolls, dislodging the cast and loosening the shoe. Veterinarians knew her shocked system could not tolerate the anesthesia required for another operation.
        Dr. Keefer marveled at her spirit. ''She thought she was still galloping in the race,'' he said. ''She kept trying to run.''
        Dr. Keefer was a large, robust man who windsurfed on Oyster Bay, played polo with the Meadow Brook Polo Club and designed and closely supervised the building of his barn. ''He did things other people said you can't do,'' his wife said. ''He thought he could do anything.''
        He is also survived by a son, Edward Jr. of Washington; two daughters, Elizabeth Jane Keefer of Manhattan and Judith Burtis of Brooklyn; and five grandchildren.
        Several of his mares, descendants of horses he saved, are in foal this spring.
      