
        Eberhard Bethge, a German Protestant theologian who helped to make his countryman Dietrich Bonhoeffer one of the most influential Protestant theologians of the mid-1900's, died on March 18 in the Bethge home in Wachtberg, a suburb of Bonn. He was 90.
        Pastor Bonhoeffer was involved in the unsuccessful plot to assassinate  Hitler in 1944, and Professor Bethge came under suspicion.
        Both theologians were imprisoned, and Pastor Bonhoeffer was hanged in 1945 for his part in the plot. Professor Bethge survived, and in the postwar era, besides being instrumental in making Pastor Bonhoeffer's theological views widely known, also supported the renewal of Christian-Jewish relations in Germany and elsewhere.
        On the 25th anniversary of Pastor Bonhoeffer's death, Professor Bethge's 867-page biography, ''Dietrich Bonhoeffer: Man of Vision, Man of Courage'' (1970 Augsburg Fortress), was published in the United States in an English translation. In a review in The New York Times Book Review, John Macquarrie, a professor of divinity at Oxford, wrote, ''Mr. Bethge has created a memorable portrait of a great Christian and moral leader in of this century.''
        A retired president of Union Theological Seminary, Donald W. Shriver, Jr., said yesterday, ''We would know a lot less about Socrates if we didn't have Plato. And we would know a lot less about Bonhoeffer if we didn't have Bethge.''
        At an early age, Pastor Bonhoeffer came under the influence of Karl Barth (1886-1968), a Swiss Protestant theologian who was an early opponent of Hitler's rule. Pastor Bonhoeffer called for an utter commitment to the lives of one's fellow humans. His thought in the field of ethics spurred him to become prominent in the Confessing Church, a Protestant movement in Germany that was born in 1933, the year that Hitler came to power. The Confessing Church methodically opposed the German Christian Church, which was backed by the Nazis.
        ''Without Eberhard Bethge, Dietrich Bonhoeffer would not be as widely known as he is now, because Bethge was friend, biographer and author, and keeper of the Bonhoeffer legacy,'' said Larry L. Rasmussen, Reinhold Niebuhr professor of social ethics at Union Theological Seminary.
        Professor Bethge did much to preserve, and to get recorded in print, the pastor's life and achievements. As the Rev. Canon Paul Oestreicher, former director of the International Ministry of Coventry Cathedral in Britain, has written: ''Bethge was to become the editor of all Bonhoeffer's works, his biographer and his interpreter. Without Bethge, Bonhoeffer, whose name was to become a household word far beyond the church scene, would hardly be known outside the circle of his family, his students and his friends.''
        Born near Magdeburg in east central Germany, Professor Bethge studied theology in Konigsberg and elsewhere, and went on to become close friends with Pastor Bonhoeffer when they were both at an underground anti-Nazi seminary beginning in 1935, when the pastor was already teaching there.
        Professor Bethke was active in other anti-Nazi church groups in later years though he was called up to military service in World War II and served briefly. After the war he held a variety of church and teaching posts and devoted time to his writing and to his editing of Pastor Bonhoeffer's writings. The many honors he received included an honorary professorship at the University of Bonn and Union Theological Seminary's Union Medal.
        In 1996, when President Ezer Weizman of Israel visited a German prison where anti-Hitler plotters had been executed, Professor Bethge said: ''This is something that was rejected by the Israelis before for many understandable reasons, because there were a lot of anti-Semites among resistance figures. There is no stronger proof than this visit that things have changed and that we have started a positive dialogue.''
        Professor Rasmussen said Professor Bethge had been ''central to the post-Holocaust Christian-Jewish dialogue from the end of the war on.''
        The professor's survivors include his wife, Renate, a niece of Pastor Bonhoeffer; a son, Dietrich, who is named for Bonhoeffer; and two daughters, Gabriele and Sabine.
      