
        George E. Taylor, a historian and political scientist who specialized in Asia, died on Friday at his home in Seattle. He was 94.
        Professor Taylor ''was one of the founders of modern China studies in the United States,'' said Andrew J. Nathan, a professor of political science at Columbia and a specialist in China.
        Professor Taylor retired in 1975 from the University of Washington, in Seattle, after having been chairman, from 1939 to 1969, of its department of Russian and Far Eastern studies and of what became the Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies. He took time out in World War II to work with the Office of War Information, where he became deputy director of the Pacific region.
        After the war, he was a professor of Far Eastern history and politics and then of Asian studies at the university.
        He was born in England and left for the United States in 1928. After studying at Johns Hopkins and Harvard, Professor Taylor taught in China in the 30's and won praise with a book, ''America in the New Pacific,'' that was published not long after Pearl Harbor.
        Reviewing it in The New York Times Book Review, William Henry Chamberlin, an author and a historian, wrote that Professor Taylor, thanks to ''his cosmopolitan background,'' had ''an ability to view the pattern of Far Eastern power politics realistically, and with a noteworthy absence of nationalist bias.''
        But Professor Taylor had a strong dislike of what he saw as Japanese methods of imperialism. He wrote in the book:
        ''Japanese in China fill every position from the highest offices of state to those of peddlers of knicknacks, taxi drivers, railway clerks, sellers of opium and managers of houses of prostitution. They do not rule, they occupy, they do not tax, they expropriate; they do not compromise, they terrorize; they do not respect native culture, they ram their own mystical rubbish down the throats of people far more civilized than themselves.''
        In his review, Mr. Chamberlin wrote prophetically, ''Mr. Taylor is probably correct in believing that the future of Asia will be dominated either by a ruthless, streamlined Japanese imperialism, administering the opiate of old reactionary oriental philosophies to its subjugated peoples, or by the American conception of proper relations between East and West with much more freedom and quality and self-government for the Eastern peoples than they could enjoy under an imperialist regime.''
        The director of the Jackson School, Jere Bacharach, recalled that Professor Taylor had a strong commitment ''to the understanding of societies through an analysis of their cultural values.'' In the 40's, he set up an interdisciplinary group of social scientists to study Japanese value systems.
        Back in Seattle in 1947, Professor Taylor contended that the decision to drop the atomic bombs on Japan had not been based on all the available evidence. ''It is essential for the future,'' he said, ''that the skills of social scientists be used in the formulation of key decisions.''
        On that occasion, he also endorsed a statement by Dr. Alexander H. Leighton, another former executive at the Office of War Information, that it had not been necessary to drop the atomic bombs because social scientists had already predicted that Japan would fall.
        In the postwar years, Professor Taylor brought together highly regarded scholars from China at the University of Washington and founded a strong Chinese studies program. He conducted similar ground work in Russian studies.
        In the 50's and 60's, Professor Nathan said, ''the field of China studies was torn with ideological divisions between the people who were very strongly anti-Communist and others who urged a more sympathetic understanding of Communism in China.'' Professor Taylor was in the former group, Professor Nathan said, ''and it's said that he always conducted himself with courtesy and and kept those disputes at a level of scholarly discourse.''
        He was the author, the co-author or the editor of more than 12 books.
        Born in Coventry, he received a bachelor and master's from the University of Birmingham.
        He married Roberta Stevens White in 1933. She died in 1967. He married Florence R. Kluckhohn in 1968. She also died.
        Surviving are his last wife, Margaret Perthou Taylor; 2 brothers, Harold and Reginald, both of England; 3 children, Claire, of California; Gordon, of Portland, Ore.; and Robin Daugherty, of Colorado; 10 grandchildren; and 11 great-grandchildren.
      