
        Wayne McAllister, a West Coast architect who some critics say elevated commercial structures like the drive-in restaurant and the theme resort to art forms, died on March 22 in Arcadia, Calif. He was 92.
        Mr. McAllister injured his head in a fall on March 3 near his home in Pasadena and never regained consciousness, said his son Donald.
        Mr. McAllister created his designs for a world shaped by the automobile and for people who seldom willingly left it, even to eat. He let them drive through fantasy drive-ins and cruise by palaces on the Las Vegas strip.
        Among Mr. McAllister's memorable creations were the Sands (the hangout for Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin), El Rancho Hotel (the first of many theme resorts on the Las Vegas Strip), the expansion of the Los Feliz Brown Derby and restaurants for the Pig 'n Whistle and Kentucky Fried Chicken chains.
        Because of the rapid growth of cities like Los Angeles and Las Vegas, where his works once dotted the cityscapes, and because flamboyant commercial architecture was not highly regarded, only a few of his buildings survive.
        In 1992, however, Chris Nichols, an architectural historian, led a successful effort to have the Bob's Big Boy restaurant, Mr. McAllister's low-slung, mustard-colored, drive-in on Riverside Drive in Los Angeles, designated as a California State Point of Historical Interest. The 1949 restaurant, the third Bob's built and the oldest still in existence, is considered an outstanding example of 1940's Art Moderne, with a whiff of 1950's Coffee Shop Modern.
        Interest in Mr. McAllister's work  grew, and in 1998 an exhibition of photographs and drawings of his designs was presented in Los Angeles. ''Wayne McAllister didn't invent the drive-in restaurant, but in the 1930's he took it a step higher than the diner and made it reflect a way of life,'' said Mr. Nichols, the exhibition's curator.
        The architecture critic Alan Hess has praised Mr. McAllister's work in his books ''Googie: Fifties Coffee Shop Architecture'' (1986) and ''Viva Las Vegas'' (1993). Calling Mr. McAllister ''one of the most significant architects of the 20th century in terms of creativity of form and influence,'' Mr. Hess said, ''He saw that the world was becoming shaped by the automobile.''
        For his part Mr. McAllister was humble. In 1998 he told The Los Angeles Times, ''I just ran a modest office and did modest work.''
        He often said that he simply tried to fill a need, and that his futuristic dazzle was ''influenced by the automobile, not the architect.''
        Born on Nov. 17, 1907, in San Diego, Mr. McAllister dropped out of high school to work for an architect. At 20 he designed the Mexican resort Agua Caliente, which was later frequented by Clark Gable, Jean Harlow and Gloria Swanson.
        In addition to his son Donald, who lives in Corvallis, Ore., Mr. McAllister is survived by his wife, Corinne, of Pasadena; two other children, David, of Tucson, and Paulette, of Prescott, Ariz.; four grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
        Mr. McAllister gave up architecture in 1956 and moved to Washington to become vice president of the Marriott Corporation. He returned to Los Angeles in 1962 where he developed coin-operated copying machines.
      