
        De Coursey Fales Jr., an archaeologist and professor of history whose in-depth study of a single Greek vase shed light on the art and mythology of the ancient world, died on April 12 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his brother Haliburton Fales II.
        ''De Coursey Fales was a major scholar of the most important Athenian black-figured vase'' of the sixth century B.C. that is still in existence, said David Gordon Mitten, a professor of classical art and archaeology at Harvard and a curator at the Harvard University Art Museum.
        The vase, which is more than two feet high, is known as the Francois Vase and is in the Archaeological Museum in Florence, Italy. It was discovered in a tomb at Vulci, an ancient Etruscan community in northern Italy, and was named after its discoverer. The vase's exterior is decorated with mythological scenes depicting more than 200 figures, among them the Greek warriors Achilles and Ajax in the Trojan War.
        Dr. Mitten said Dr. Fales, who taught for years at Emerson College in Boston, ''spent much of his life working on the Francois Vase'' and acquired ''unrivaled knowledge of the subject.'' He wrote scholarly articles about the vase and about Kleitias, the artist who painted its mythological scenes.
        At his death Dr. Fales had been a member of the visiting committee for what is now called the department of art of the ancient world at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston for more than a quarter century.
        From 1948 to 1951, he took part in excavations by the University Museum of the University of Pennsylvania at the site of the ancient city of Kourion, which flourished in Hellenistic and Greco-Roman times on the southwestern coast of Cyprus.
        Dr. Fales concluded that a building previously identified as a palace was in fact the bath. Describing his revisionist view in an article in the University Museum Bulletin, he wrote that the bath was placed on the edge of a plateau, and ''in this site the hot baths were placed high and free enough for the sun to shine on them in the afternoon, when the baths were most frequented, while the cold baths were low enough for the water to flow into them by gravity. In addition, this location enabled the people gathered in the rooms before or after bathing to look out on the fields and the sea.''
        Dr. Fales added, ''The view, the sun on the hot baths and the gravitational flow of water were important criteria in the selection of a bath site.''
        He worked in Washington as a junior fellow at Dumbarton Oaks, received a doctorate in classical archaeology in 1957 from Harvard, and taught classics and history for more than two decades at Oberlin College and then Emerson. He was an officer of the scholarly journal Greek, Roman and Byzantine Studies.
        He was a native New Yorker, graduated from St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., and received a bachelor's degree in 1941 and a master's degree, also from Harvard, in 1948. He served in the Army in Central America in World War II.
        Besides his brother Haliburton, of Manhattan and Gladstone, N.J., Dr. Fales is survived by his wife, the former Iten Noa Scott, whom he married in 1966; another brother, Timothy, of Paris; four stepchildren, nine stepgrandchildren and two step-great-grandchildren.
      