
        Sergei Zalygin, a writer and the chief editor of the literary journal Novy Mir who in the late 1980's published long-banned works by Boris Pasternak, Joseph Brodsky and Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, died on Wednesday at a hospital here. He was 86.
        Mr. Zalygin edited Novy Mir from 1986 to 1988, at the height of President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's campaign to open the way to free expression and debate. It was under Mr. Zalygin's leadership that the monthly journal, a closely watched barometer of literary freedom in Soviet Russia, first published poetry by Mr. Brodsky, then in exile, and ''Doctor Zhivago,'' by Mr. Pasternak.
        After a long battle with Communist Party censors, Mr. Zalygin, the first nonparty member to edit Novy Mir, succeeded in laying the groundwork for the publication, in 1990, of ''The Gulag Archipelago,'' Mr. Sozhenitsyn's epic on Stalin's labor camps.
        As Izvestia wrote today, the publication of ''Gulag,'' a book that 10 years earlier could have cost a Soviet reader a prison term, meant that Soviet censorship had come to an end.
        Mr. Zalygin, born in 1913 in a village in the southern Urals, near Ufa, came to literature as a second career. His first was as a hydrologist and agricultural specialist, two professions that gave him the ammunition to lead a crusade in the early 80's against one of the most hare-brained of Soviet megaprojects, the plan to reverse the flow of Siberian rivers and send the water south, to the Central Asian deserts.
        Mr. Zalygin and his allies, who included nationalists and environmentalists, won that battle, an early victory in Mr. Gorbachev's campaign to shake loose the rigid central planning system and stop its environmental damage.
        Mr. Zalygin's first book was published in 1936. In 1968, he won a state prize for ''Solyanay Pad,'' a novel with a negative portrait of a fanatic Communist leader in a village in Siberia. Another novel, ''On the Irtysh,'' was about dekulakization, a euphemism for Stalin's campaign to collectivize Russian agriculture and exterminate kulaks, as rich independent peasants were called.
        Mr. Zalygin was not a dissident. He was a member of the Secretariat of the Soviet Writers' Union. But in a eulogy televised on Wednesday night, Mr. Solzhenitsyn called him a very brave, very courageous person.
        ''You could see this especially in the case of that stupid, absurd and idiotic project to turn around Russia's northern and Siberian rivers,'' Mr. Solzhenitsyn said. ''He was one of those main participants in this movement. The great part of its success was thanks to him.''
        Mr. Zalygin resigned from Novy Mir at the peak of his influence. According to friends, he was already ill, but he was also intent on devoting himself to his own writing.
        ''He wrote until the last weeks of his life,'' Mr. Solzhenitsyn said. ''His hand almost could not hold a pen. His prose of the last years had a deep philosophical character. Of course, his death was not unexpected. He had already said goodbye, and I did not argue with him. ''
      