
        George S. Moore, a banker who led the overseas expansion of what became Citibank and steered the Metropolitan Opera through turbulent financial times, died yesterday at his home in Sotograde, Spain. He was 95.
        Mr. Moore, who eventually rose to become chairman of First National City Bank of New York (now known as Citibank) was born on April 1, 1905, in Hannibal, Mo., to a family of moderate circumstances. His father was a claims inspector for the Burlington & Quincy Railroad.
        From early on he established himself as an energetic young man. During summers in St. Louis, were he grew up, Mr. Moore earned extra money selling honey and delivering orders for a delicatessen.
        Later, he helped put himself through Yale by booking tours to Europe and tickets to Broadway shows for classmates.
        After joining the Farmers' Loan and Trust Company in 1927, which eventually merged with First National City, Mr. Moore rose swiftly to positions of power.
        Colleagues described him as a determined salesman who thought that more than five hours of sleep a night was a waste.
        Mr. Moore is credited with moving aggressively to expand the bank's reach in whatever department he ran. As head of the bank's domestic division in 1957, Mr. Moore pushed for the bank's entry into real estate lending and expanded consumer loans.
        Later as the head of First National City's overseas division, he set up new branches in countries across Europe and Latin America. The Latin American branches, while successful during his tenure, later caused the bank headaches as economies in the region collapsed.
        But the legacy that Mr. Moore was most proud of, according to his son, George Moore of New Canaan, Conn., was transforming the caliber of the institution's workers.
        When Mr. Moore joined banking, it was still a closed, conservative society staffed largely by the scions of old-line moneyed families like the Stillmans and the Rockefellers. Mr. Moore aimed to replace what he perceived to be indolent family heirs with motivated graduates of business schools.
        The claims inspector's son took some pride in being a tough guy who could fire incompetent underlings.
        ''He was fanatical about finding top talent and inventorying people with high I.Q.'s,'' said Phillip L. Zweig, who interviewed Mr. Moore at length for a book on Walter B. Wriston, Mr. Moore's hand-picked Citibank successor. ''But he was lightening in a bottle and did not suffer fools lightly.''
        Mr. Moore became president of the Metropolitan Opera Association in 1967. It was a troubled financial time in the opera's history, as the recent move to its Lincoln Center home had emptied the coffers.
        Mr. Moore was determined to run the opera like a business and insisted that creative operations meet budgets. Under his tenure, the opera raised the price of tickets several times and postponed opening the season to trim costs. In 1973, the Met even canceled a scheduled production of ''Don Giovanni'' as well as free summer concerts that were to be held in Central Park.
        Mr. Moore retired from First National City in 1970, but he continued to work long energetic days until he was almost 90.
        Among his responsibilities was being the sole trustee for the Onassis family interests in the United States and being a financial consultant to numerous United States and foreign corporations.
        He also kept a full social and philanthropic calendar. In his autobiography ''The Banker's Life,'' (W. W. Norton & Company, 1986), he included among his friends Senator Jacob K. Javits, opera singer Maria Callas and the auto-fortune heir Henry Ford II.
        In addition to his son by his first marriage, Mr. Moore is survived by his second wife, Charon C. Moore; their three children, daughters Christina Sendagorta and Maria Pia and a son, Steven C. Moore, all of Madrid; five grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
      