
        Todd Webb, a photographer who documented the everyday life and architecture of New York, Paris and the American West, died last Saturday at Central Maine Medical Center in Lewiston. He was 94 and lived in Auburn, Me.
        Solid and dignified, with a sharp focus and full tonal range, Mr. Webb's works placed him squarely in the company of renowned American regionalist photographers of the 1930's, 40's and 50's like Berenice Abbott, Walker Evans, Ansel Adams and Edward Weston during his later landscape period. Quiet and unassuming, Mr. Webb was fond of saying that the secret to taking a good picture was simply knowing where to stand.
        Born in Detroit, Mr. Webb spent his childhood there and in a Quaker community in Ontario. At the onset of the Depression in 1929, he moved to California, where he earned a meager living as a prospector. He eventually returned to Detroit, where he took a job with the Chrysler Corporation and tried writing in his spare time. When a friend invited him to travel to Panama in search of gold, Mr. Webb was granted a leave of absence by his boss, who sent him on his way with a camera.
        In the late 1930's his fascination with the medium flourished as he honed his skills at the Detroit Camera Club and under the tutelage of Ansel Adams. After obtaining a job as a Navy photographer during World War II, with the help of Adams, Mr. Webb moved to New York with a friend, the photographer Harry Callahan. He soon established himself as one of the most successful postwar photographers.
        At the height of his career, Mr. Webb traveled to Paris, where he met his wife, Lucille, a New Yorker, and produced a vivid record of the city that earned him comparisons to the French photographer Eugene Atget. Later the Webbs settled in Santa Fe, N.M., at the suggestion of their friend Georgia O'Keeffe, before moving on to Provence in France, Bath, England, and, finally, Maine.
        In 1955, armed with his camera, a 40-pound rucksack and a Guggenheim fellowship, Mr. Webb set out in the footsteps of the 1849 Gold Rush pioneers, traveling by foot, bicycle, motor scooter and boat from New York to San Francisco. Over the course of five months he compiled some 7,500 photographs, immortalizing the immigrant trails, ghost towns and frontier buildings of the West.
        ''I had seen the country as I never had before,'' he wrote in The New York Times about his adventures.
        Mr. Webb's photographs are displayed in 25 major museum collections, including those of the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the National Gallery of Art in Washington. More than 1,400 of his pictures are held by the Center for Creative Photography at the University of Arizona in Tucson.
        He is survived by his wife.
      