
        Alexander H. Cohen, one of the last old-time independent theatrical producers, who produced 101 shows on Broadway and in London's West End and originated the national Tony Awards telecast in 1967, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79.
        The cause was respiratory failure, said his son Gerry Cohen.
        Mr. Cohen's most recent production was Noel Coward's ''Waiting in the Wings,'' starring Lauren Bacall and Rosemary Harris. Now playing at the Eugene O'Neill Theater, it opened on Dec. 16, 1999, the centenary of Coward's birth. It was the final Broadway production for a man whose career began 59 years earlier with the play ''Angel Street,'' starring Vincent Price, a hit that later became the film ''Gaslight.''
        Mr. Cohen was not always so lucky -- in the theater, at least. He financed his love of the stage with the money he had earned as a successful television producer, almost always working with his wife of 44 years, the  writer and actress Hildy Parks. They produced the first 20 years of the  Tony Awards telecasts as well as 20 prime-time television specials, including ''Night of 100 Stars,'' the Emmy Awards and shows like ''Happy Birthday Hollywood.''
        These television successes allowed Mr. Cohen to pursue the mostly highbrow type of theatrical productions that had always appealed to him.  Among the plays he produced were  Peter Brook's ''La Tragedie de Carmen,'' which received a Tony Award in 1984; ''Hamlet,'' starring Richard Burton; the Harold Pinter drama ''Homecoming,'' which also received a Tony Award, in 1967; Sheridan's ''School for Scandal,'' starring John Gielgud and Ralph Richardson; and Trevor Griffiths's ''Comedians.''
        Mr. Cohen also presented such sophisticated entertainments as ''An  Evening With Mike Nichols and Elaine May''; ''Beyond the Fringe,'' the British revue that introduced Dudley Moore, Peter Cook, Jonathan Miller and Alan Bennett to America; another British revue, ''At the Drop of a Hat,'' which brought Michael Flanders and Donald Swann to Broadway; and concert engagements starring Marlene Dietrich, Yves Montand, Victor Borge and  Maurice Chevalier.
        Though these productions were often financially successful, Mr. Cohen liked to say: ''Any moron can make money, and in show business any cretin can make money. My considerations have never been financial. A flop in my head is a show or an experience I didn't care for. And a hit in my head is something I enjoyed doing very much. You'd be surprised how many of my flops have been hits and hits flops.''
        Despite such bravura, some of Mr. Cohen's flops were so staggering  that they entered theater legend: among them were a revival of Olsen and Johnson's ''Hellzapoppin' '' starring Jerry Lewis, which closed in  Boston during its 1977 Broadway tryout at a cost to Mr. Cohen of $2  million; ''Rugantino,'' the first -- and last -- attempt to import an Italian musical comedy to Broadway complete with subtitles; ''Prettybelle,'' a musical comedy that closed in Boston, with Angela Lansbury as a mental patient; and a Richard Rodgers musical version of ''I Remember Mama,'' starring Liv Ullmann.
        In a business where fortunes are sometimes made and more often lost  overnight, Mr. Cohen steadfastly refused to play the pauper. His theatrical disasters never dented his zest for high living. Always the master  showman, he rode around town in stretch limousines fully equipped with phones before that was the fashion, and jetted between Manhattan and other homes he kept at various times in London; Mougins, France; St. Croix in the Virgin Islands; Pound Ridge, N.Y.; and Fairfield, Conn. He was so much the epitome of a theatrical producer that Woody Allen cast him as one in ''The Purple Rose of Cairo.''
        Alexander Henry Cohen was born in New York City on July 24, 1920, the  elder son of a successful businessman who died when Alexander was only 4. His mother later remarried a banker, and the family lived on Park Avenue in a duplex penthouse. As Mr. Cohen later recalled, his brother Gerry and he were cared for by ''two Irish spinsters named Catherine and Mary. They were lovely. When my mother had parties, we all used to sit upstairs and look down. But we were never invited down or introduced.''
        Mr. Cohen's relationship with his mother remained troubled and collapsed entirely when Gerry committed suicide in 1954. ''That was the day I stopped talking to my mother,'' he recalled. ''My belief is that Gerry was incapable of coping with not having a family. I did have a family, and it was in the theater.''
        Mr. Cohen's interest in the theater was whetted by an uncle, who took him to see a show every week. He spent much of his inheritance investing in theatrical ventures that usually failed. The big exception was Patrick Hamilton's Victorian melodrama ''Angel Street,'' which had considerable success in 1941. Mr. Cohen was listed as associate producer, and when the play thrived, Mr. Cohen became known around Shubert Alley as Broadway's ''millionaire boy angel.'' He was drafted into the Army during World War II but discharged after a year because of a leg ailment.
        At the start of Mr. Cohen's producing career, he was employed by the Bulova Watch Company, where he spent seven years, becoming its  director of advertising and publicity. He kept the job once he started producing, and wristwatches were frequent gifts. (In an effort to drum up  other promotional clients, he also  took out an ad in Variety to announce his availability, which famously claimed, ''Have tux, will travel.'')
        After a number of flops, Mr. Cohen hit his stride with ''At the Drop of a Hat'' in 1954, and many triumphs followed throughout the 1960's. In 1967 alone he was represented on Broadway with another Flanders and Swann revue, ''At the Drop of Another Hat''; ''The Homecoming,'' which also received a New York Drama Critics Circle Award as best play; Peter Shaffer's ''Black Comedy''; Jules Feiffer's ''Little Murders''; and two plays by Peter Ustinov, ''The Unknown Soldier and His Wife'' and ''Halfway Up the Tree.''
        One of Mr. Cohen's favorite stories about his years in the theater concerned David Merrick, the frequently abrasive producer known around town as ''the Abominable Showman.''
        ''It was never enough for him to succeed,'' Mr. Cohen said of Mr. Merrick, ''his competitors had to fail. In London, we both stayed at the Savoy. I was having breakfast one morning and invited him to join me. I said, 'I have tickets tonight for ''Look Back in Anger.'' We can both go, and the deal is if we like it, we'll do it together.' He agreed. We both liked it and he did it alone. I never had another business deal with him again.''
        But Mr. Cohen got his revenge  when he tried out an early version of  ''Hellzapoppin' '' in 1967 with Soupy Sales in Montreal. When he saw that the show was failing out of town, he knew he would have to tell the Shubert Organization, since he had booked its Broadway Theater and was liable for its costs. As Mr. Cohen told the story, he was on his way to the Shubert office when he ran into a theater manager who told him that Mr. Merrick was producing ''The Happy Time,'' directed by Gower Champion, and Mr. Champion was insisting on putting it in the Broadway Theater.
        ''I went to the Shuberts and told them my show was ready and I wouldn't go anywhere else,'' Mr. Cohen said gleefully. He was finally persuaded to move ''Hellzapoppin' '' -- for the sum of $50,000, paid by Mr. Merrick.
        ''I must say,'' Mr. Cohen said, ''I sent that manager a wristwatch.''
        Among the other plays and musicals Mr. Cohen produced over the years were John Houseman's revival of ''King Lear'' with Louis Calhern; ''The First Gentleman,'' directed by Tyrone Guthrie and starring Walter Slezak; ''The Devils,'' starring Jason Robards Jr. and Anne Bancroft; the Sherlock Holmes musical ''Baker Street''; and the Dudley Moore-Peter Cook revue ''Good Evening.''
        Among the many productions Mr. Cohen presented in London's West End were Neil Simon's ''Plaza Suite''; Arthur Miller's ''Price''; Terence Rattigan's ''Man and Boy,'' starring Charles Boyer; and in ''Harvey,'' with James Stewart.
        Outside New York, Mr. Cohen supervised the building of the O'Keefe Center, a 3,100-seat theater for the O'Keefe Brewing Company of Toronto, which he booked and managed for its first three years starting in 1960, with Richard Burton and Julie Andrews in ''Camelot.'' In 1992 he  opened and managed the Rich Forum for the Stamford Center for the Arts in Connecticut, serving until 1995.
        Mr. Cohen was also an active, if controversial, fund-raiser for the Actors' Fund of America, maintaining that his three ''Night of 100 Stars''  television specials and his ''Parade of Stars'' television production  raised $3 million to build the fund's extended-care nursing facility in Englewood, N.J. Behind the scenes, some on Broadway sniped that Mr. Cohen's lavish producing style accommodated his own needs better than the fund's.
        Joseph P. Benincasa, who took over as executive director of the Actors' Fund in 1989, said: ''Alex was the paid producer of all three 'Night of 100 Stars' events. He made money producing these events and the Actors' Fund made money. He was a volunteer trustee of the organization as well as a vendor. As executive director, I would never pay any trustee to produce something. I'm not going to say that that's wrong. It's just not the way we do things on my watch.''
        Mr. Cohen had something of the last word for all his critics when he wrote, produced and starred in his own one-man show, ''Star Billing,'' which opened Off Broadway in 1998 and ran as a special attraction once a week for 22 performances. Lawrence Van Gelder, reviewing the production for The New York Times, wrote: ''Mr. Cohen proves himself a splendid anecdotalist with a highly developed sense of comic timing. He has many a kind word for his friends and an arsenal of well-honed, acid-tipped barbs for those he loathes, among them David Merrick, Marlene Dietrich and Jerry Lewis.''
        As Mr. Cohen's involvement in television specials waned by the early 1990's, so did his finances. For his 100th show, ''The Herbal Bed'' by Peter Whelan, he took on producing partners, only one of whom he had worked with before -- Max Cooper, the owner of every McDonald's franchise in Alabama. (''The Herbal Bed'' flopped on Broadway, closing after 13 performances).
        At the time of his death, Mr. Cohen was planning to produce ''Sweet Deliverance,'' a comic play about euthanasia that was to star Fran Drescher. And he was embroiled in an arbitration with the League of New York Theaters and Producers, trying to secure the rights to the Tony Awards broadcasts he produced.
        Mr. Cohen's first marriage, to Jocelyn Newmark, ended in divorce. He married Ms. Parks in 1956. Besides her and his son Gerry Cohen, of Los Angeles, he is survived by a daughter, Barbara Hoffmann of Manhattan; another son, Christopher A. Cohen of Manhattan; one grandson; and one great-granddaughter.
        To the end, he kept his wry sense of humor and his traditional sense of standards. He was appalled by the Disney Store annexed to the New Amsterdam Theater and he refused to sell merchandise for any of his own shows, not even a poster.
        He also had contempt for the new-fangled musicals that he believed had turned Broadway into a satellite of Las Vegas. When he was offered the chance to invest $100,000 in the London production of ''Cats,'' in order to get the New York rights, Mr. Cohen turned it down flat.
        He claimed to have had no regrets about the millions he never made -- not even about the millions he lost. ''I can owe a million and I have,'' he said, ''but when I put my head on the pillow at night, it's 'Goodbye Charlie.' I get up the next morning and start all over again. I like it. Besides, I don't know how to do anything else.''
        Correction:  April 24, 2000, Monday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about the theatrical producer Alexander H. Cohen misidentified in some copies the Broadway theater where his last production, ''Waiting in the Wings,'' is playing. The play opened on Dec. 16, 1999, at the Walter Kerr Theater, but is now at the Eugene O'Neill Theater.
      