
        Undaunted by the fact that he was doing the impossible, Edward J. Logue roared up and down the East Coast from the 1950's to the 1980's like an urban renewal whirlwind, building and rebuilding precincts on which others had given up hope: downtown New Haven, Scollay Square in Boston, Roosevelt Island and Charlotte Street in the South Bronx.
        ''He was Robert Moses and he was the anti-Robert Moses all at once,'' said Lawrence P. Goldman, president and chief executive of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, speaking of New York's other master builder of the mid-20th century.
        ''He could think as big as Moses,'' said Mr. Goldman, who once worked for Mr. Logue, ''and had no less ability to implement. 'I'm not inclined to generate plans that don't get built' was one of his favorite assertions. But unlike Moses, he was as committed to social transformation as he was to physical development. Roosevelt Island had the most ambitious socioeconomic mix of any new community anywhere in the world.''
        Mr. Logue died Jan. 27 in his home on Martha's Vineyard at 78. Mr. Goldman and about 200 other friends and former colleagues gathered here today for a memorial service at Faneuil Hall, restored as part of Mr. Logue's ''Walkway to the Sea,'' within sight of the monumental Government Center complex that supplanted ragtag Scollay Square in the mid-1960's, under his watch.
        Those colleagues had been Young Turks at a time when ''urban renewal'' was a promise, not a threat. And now their hair matches the pewter walls and chalk-white columns of the meeting room where they joined to say goodbye to their mentor.
        They came from an era when city planners thought big, not just in physical scale but in social ambition, believing that good architecture made good neighborhoods, and that economic integration made even better neighborhoods; and when they possessed -- for better and worse -- the political capital necessary to override community opposition.
        Mr. Logue was the development administrator of New Haven from 1954 to 1960, development administrator of the Boston Redevelopment Authority from 1961 to 1967, president and chief executive of the New York State Urban Development Corporation from 1968 to 1975 and president of the South Bronx Development Organization from 1978 to 1985.
        It was not a bloodless administrator who was being recalled today, however, but a robust and pugnacious man whose convictions, constitution and language were always strong. It was not so much the successful builder of 33,000 housing units statewide but the gambler who tried -- and failed -- to develop 900 low-income apartments in Westchester County.
        It was young Lieutenant Logue of the Army Air Force in World War II, a bombardier in the skies over southern Italy, with a view of entire cities below him. ''That experience afforded Ed a sense of vision,'' said Msgr. Michael F. Groden, director of the planning office for urban affairs in the Archdiocese of Boston, ''a sense of the big picture that would serve him well.''
        Critics of Mr. Logue's tactics would see the same image in a far less benign light. ''Logue tosses people and small businesses around ruthlessly,'' the urban analyst Jane Jacobs said in 1970. Mr. Logue and his allies always dismissed such charges, invoking his motto of ''planning with people.''
        But there was no question that he was not a man to stand on niceties. Or business as usual. Or zoning. Or bureaucratic oversight.
        In Boston, Mayor John F. Collins armed Mr. Logue with broad, centralized powers. Mr. Logue used that latitude to hire inventive architects for an untraditional Government Center. City Hall, with its honeycomb concrete facade looming like a great inverted pyramid, was downright revolutionary.
        ''It is the function of distinguished architecture and imaginative civic design to see that beauty is the hallmark of the renewed city,'' Mr. Logue said in 1967.
        You would still get a debate as to whether Government Center is beautiful. But Anthony Lewis, a columnist for The New York Times, attested to the allure of this reinvigorated city. ''I came back to this country from London in 1973, and the Times publisher let me choose where I would live,'' he said. ''I chose Boston: Ed Logue's Boston.''
        In 1968, having lost a mayoral campaign here, Mr. Logue was invited to meet Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York to discuss a new kind of agency, the Urban Development Corporation, that was to build affordable housing and create jobs.
        ''Is this corporation going to be subject to local rules, zoning and codes?'' Mr. Logue asked Mr. Rockefeller and Stephen Lefkowitz, then a lawyer for the state and now a partner at Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts, who recounted the story in an interview.
        ''Of course,'' the New Yorkers answered.
        ''Then it's no damn good,'' Mr. Logue replied, waving his hand. ''It's not going to mean a damn thing. You've got to bypass all that.'' After Mr. Logue left, the governor turned to Mr. Lefkowitz and said:
        ''Well, that's what we've got to do. Do it.''
        Granted powers of eminent domain, exemption from local zoning and the ability to sell its own bonds, the U.D.C. (now the Empire State Development Corporation) undertook 115 housing projects across the state, including three entire ''new towns,'' the most famous being Roosevelt Island, into which residents started moving in 1975.
        On an East River island that had been home to hospitals, insane asylums and prisons, Mr. Logue proposed an entirely new, socially and economically integrated community of 18,000 people, saying he wanted to prove he could get ''people of different income levels to live harmoniously and send their children to the same schools.''
        Equally compelling for many who knew Mr. Logue was the effort to build low-income apartments in Westchester, 100 in each of nine towns, including Bedford and Somers. Furious resistance met the plan. Just before one town hearing, word reached Mr. Logue's office that a death threat had been received.
        Mr. Logue went anyway, recalled Richard A. Kahan, who was to head the U.D.C. himself one day but was then a fledgling staff member. Arriving at the meeting hall, Mr. Logue ''took the most prominent position, folded his arms and sat down like Buddha,'' Mr. Kahan said in an interview. ''I thought, 'This is courage.' ''
        But the nine-towns plan foundered and led to a dilution by the Legislature of the corporation's broad powers. Worse was in store. By 1975, it was bankrupt, and Mr. Logue resigned.
        As head of the South Bronx agency, Mr. Logue was no longer armed with sweeping power, said Mitchell Sviridoff, former president of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation. ''This was to be bare knuckles, hand-to-hand combat,'' he said, in remarks read by Allan R. Talbot, a friend. Still, Mr. Logue built 90 ranch houses with backyards and picket fences, owned by the people who lived in them, on what had been rubble land.
        Mr. Talbot brought the voice of Mr. Logue into Faneuil Hall by reading from a 1982 letter written after Mr. Logue had been told that a certain City Planning Department official was blocking an industrial project on East 174th Street in the Bronx.
        After several scathingly sarcastic paragraphs, Mr. Logue wound up, ''I concluded that the information I got was all wrong and that there was some screw-up and you were being unfairly blamed.
        ''I know you would never hold up the mayor's top industrial priority in the entire city,'' he wrote, finishing the sentence with a dismissive vulgarism.
        He continued: ''I know you will be for the project, and if you have any questions, you would of course call me. I am readily reachable by phone. I know, through no fault of your own, of course, that you never are, because I have tried so many times.
        ''My very best wishes.''
      