
        Philip C. Keenan, whose work in the spectral classification of stars helped astronomers understand the chemical evolution of galaxies, died on Thursday at a hospital in Columbus, Ohio. He was 92.
        Dr. Keenan (pronounced kee-NAN) was emeritus professor of astronomy at Ohio State University in Columbus.
        He wrote the Atlas of Stellar Spectra in 1943 with Dr. W. W. Morgan, who died in 1994. Its system of classifying stars by their spectra, or the wavelengths of light they emit, is still in wide use.
        Dr. Keenan also had an extraordinarily long history of professional publication.
        ''He published longer than most astronomers live,'' said Jay A. Frogel, a colleague of Dr. Keenan's at Ohio State.
        Dr. Allan Sandage, an astronomer at the Carnegie Observatory in Pasadena, Calif., said the importance of the Morgan and Keenan atlas and system for analyzing spectra, called the MK system, after their names, was in formatting earlier work for easier use by other astronomers.
        ''It was a way of looking at the spectra of each star and determining its luminosity and temperature,'' said Dr. Sandage, who had known Dr. Keenan for more than 45 years. ''It provided the framework which other people used to put stars into the context of stellar evolution.''
        In a photograph, the spectrum of light that emanates from a star appears as a series of tiny lines, like a bar code in miniature. Each type of star has its own sequence of bright and dark lines.
        Dr. Cecilia Barnbaum, a professor of physics and astronomy at Valdosta State University in Georgia, who had collaborated with Dr. Keenan since 1993, recalled that he retained his intellectual vigor far into old age. Dr. Barnbaum also remembers visiting him at his office at the Perkins Observatory in Delaware, Ohio.
        ''There were tens of thousands of note cards stacked to the ceiling, each with a photo of a spectrum on it, the name of the star and the type of star,'' she said. ''He could look at the spectrum and know the star. I don't know anybody else who could do that.''
        Dr. Keenan was born in Bellevue, Pa., on March 31, 1908. As an undergraduate at the University of Arizona, he published his first paper in 1929, about the color of the moon during eclipses. He received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from the University of Arizona in 1929 and 1930, and his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1932; he was an instructor there from 1936 until 1942. He was a physicist with the Navy Bureau of Ordnance from 1942 until 1946.
        In 1946, he became an assistant professor in the department of astronomy at Ohio State and a member of the staff at Perkins Observatory. He retired from Ohio State in 1976, but continued his research for 24 years.
        No immediate family members survive.
        Dr. Keenan wrote his final paper last year with Dr. Barnbaum; in it they calculated distances of stars from Earth using the Hipparchos satellite, which gives the most accurate distance measurements to date.
      