
        Fritz W. Alexander II, the first black judge to serve a full term on  New York State's highest court and a deputy mayor under Mayor David N. Dinkins, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital at 73. The cause was cancer, his family said.
        From his days as a Supreme Court justice in Manhattan to his rise to the State Court of Appeals, Mr. Alexander was known for his stands on  civil liberties and the rights of the accused. After he left the bench in 1992 to become deputy mayor for public safety to his former law partner, Mr. Dinkins, Mr. Alexander helped steer the mayor through a  series of municipal crises, both fiscal and civil.
        He was also a leading figure in the city's black legal community, helping found both the National Bar Association, a black lawyers' group, and an organization that encouraged young blacks to enter the law.
        ''American justice has lost a great champion, a vigilant defender to the end of translating the ideal of equal opportunity into day-to-day reality,'' Judith S. Kaye, New York State's chief judge and a former colleague of Mr. Alexander on the Court of Appeals, said on Sunday.
        Mr. Alexander was born Carl Bernard Zanders Jr. in Apopka, Fla., on April 24, 1926. After his mother fell ill -- he never knew his father -- he was raised in the family of his mother's brother, Fritz Winfred Alexander, a lawyer in Gary, Ind., who gave Mr. Alexander his name and his interest in the law. After serving in the Navy during World War II, he graduated from Dartmouth College in 1947.
        While attending New York University Law School, where he became president of his class, Mr. Alexander befriended a young neighbor in Harlem's Riverton Apartments named David Dinkins. In 1957, he and Mr. Dinkins and a third lawyer, Thomas Benjamin Dyett, formed the law firm of Dyett, Alexander & Dinkins. The firm, the leading black firm in the city in its day, represented, among others, the United Mutual Life Insurance Company and Allied Federal Savings and Loan in Queens.
        A member of the influential Carver Democratic Club in Harlem, Mr. Alexander also helped coordinate Mr. Dinkins's upset victory in a State Assembly race in 1965.
        In 1970, Mr. Alexander was appointed a Civil Court judge, and also served in the State Supreme Court's Criminal Branch and in the Appellate Division. He was also a member of the State Commission on Judicial Conduct, which disciplines judges. In 1985, when Gov. Mario M. Cuomo appointed him to the State Court of Appeals, he became the first black to serve on that court in other than an interim capacity.
        He wrote an opinion that it was a constitutional violation to keep mental patients on antipsychotic medication without their consent. But he also wrote a widely cited opinion that criminal defendants who believe they have been represented by incompetent lawyers have to first prove their innocence before they can sue the lawyer for malpractice, which made it much harder for the defendants to sue.
        Mr. Alexander was remembered as perceptive and thorough on the bench, warm and sociable off, with a sense of humor that belied his sometimes formal bearing.
        In 1992, when Mr. Dinkins was elected mayor, he approached his old friend and partner and asked him to become deputy mayor. To his surprise, Mr. Dinkins said, Mr. Alexander accepted. His colleagues on the bench were astounded. ''It was shocking to us, because that was the zenith,'' Ms. Kaye said. ''But I think he had the sense that he could help his friend, and he wanted to be at his side.''
        While Mr. Alexander always preferred to work behind the scenes, Mr. Dinkins said he was at the center of all the major decisions of his administration, whether over the city's latest budget troubles or racial unrest in Crown Heights.
        Mr. Dinkins said he counted Mr. Alexander as one of his most trusted advisers. ''I have this expression that I use for people on whom you rely to be accurate: 'If he tells you a flea can pull a plow, hitch him up.' That was Fritz,'' Mr. Dinkins said. ''He was very good, he was a legal scholar but, more importantly for my purposes, he had a compassion for people and understanding things.''
        After leaving office with the rest of Mr. Dinkins's administration in 1993, Mr. Alexander served as a special counsel to the Manhattan law firm of Epstein Becker & Green.
        He is survived by his wife, Beverly J. Alexander, three children by his first wife, who died, two stepchildren and three grandchildren.
      