
        Herbert Wechsler, the Columbia Law School professor whose work on criminal and constitutional law helped shape the nation's legal system over half a century, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90.
        Mr. Wechsler's achievements were remarkably varied, ranging from the creation of a model penal code that helped unify the nation's criminal laws to his successful defense of The New York Times in the pivotal 1964 First Amendment case, The New York Times v. Sullivan.
        Mr. Wechsler stood as a model of scholarly professionalism to generations of law students, including Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, whom he had as a student twice, first when he was a visiting professor at Harvard, and then again after she transferred to Columbia.
        ''He seemed to me then, as he has ever since, to combine the power and beauty of the Greek gods Zeus and Apollo,'' Justice Ginsburg said in a 1995 speech. ''He is my teacher still. Of all the books I use in chambers, the one I consult more than any other is Hart and Wechsler.''
        That well-regarded casebook, ''The Federal Courts and the Federal System,'' written with Henry Melvin Hart, is now in its fourth edition and still in wide use.
        While at Columbia, Mr. Wechsler served as director of the American Law Institute for 21 years, and as chief technical adviser to the American judges at the Nuremberg Trials.
        ''When Herbert Wechsler was in his prime, he stood at the top of three separate fields, constitutional law, criminal law and federal courts,'' said Henry P. Monaghan, who now holds Mr. Wechsler's longtime seat as Harlan Fiske Stone professor of constitutional law at Columbia. ''I can't think of anyone who ever had a comparable position.''
        The case for which Mr. Wechsler is probably best known grew out of the civil rights movement. On March 29, 1960, as sit-ins, freedom rides and marches were spreading through the South, The New York Times ran an advertisement headlined ''Heed Their Rising Voices,'' seeking contributions to help the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and other civil rights leaders fight ''a wave of terror'' against black students.
        The advertisement was not entirely accurate -- it wrongly told of the padlocking of a student dining hall to starve the students into submission, for example -- and it fed Southern officials' anger against what they perceived as bias by Northern news organizations against the South.
        Though he was not named in the advertisement, L. B. Sullivan, the Montgomery, Ala., city commissioner in charge of the police, sued The New York Times and four black ministers for libel.
        The all-white Montgomery jury agreed that Mr. Sullivan had been defamed, and awarded him the  $500,000 he sought, the highest libel award in Alabama history.
        By the time the case came to the Supreme Court, 11 more libel suits were pending against The Times in the South, seeking more than $5 million in damages. Other news organizations were also sued, making it difficult for out-of-state media to cover the civil rights movement without fear of being bankrupted.
        In arguing Sullivan to the high court, Mr. Wechsler reshaped the focus of the case.
        ''It was a brilliant argument,'' Professor Monaghan said. ''It's a libel suit in which the jury awarded damages to a sheriff whose standing probably went up in the community, not down, as a result of what was in the newspaper. Most lawyers, including me, would have argued that you could not, under the First Amendment, presume damages. But then they would have had to deal with 200 years of precedent permitting juries to presume damages to reputation.
        ''Herb shifted the paradigm, and argued the case as a question of sedition, playing on the American law's antipathy to the idea of seditious libel'' -- language criticizing a government in a way that could incite insurrection.
        The Supreme Court unanimously overturned the Sullivan judgment, finding that the press could not meet the need for vigorous debate of issues if it had to prove the factual accuracy of every statement about a public official.
        Public officials, the court said, could win damages only if they showed a libelous statement had been made ''with actual malice, that is, with knowledge that it was false, or reckless disregard of whether it was false or not.''
        Twenty years after the decision at a symposium celebrating its principles, Floyd Abrams, the First Amendment lawyer, called the opinion, written by Justice William J. Brennan Jr., ''one of the most extraordinary, far-reaching and beautiful decisions in American history.''
        Others at the symposium worried, however, that the decision might have encouraged sloppy journalism by insulating careless errors from liability. And just last year, Mr. Abrams cautioned the news media to show that what he called the ''gift'' of the ruling ''is deserved and that it will be used not alone for private benefit, but for public good.''
        Herbert Wechsler was born in New York on Dec. 4, 1909, and entered City College of New York at 16, graduating in 1928 with a degree in French. He applied to teach French at the college, but was turned down because his father, Samuel, a lawyer, convinced the head of the French department, whom he knew, that the young man should be a lawyer.
        Mr. Wechsler soon proved his father right: when he graduated from Columbia Law School in 1931, he was editor in chief of the law review. He taught at the law school for a year before going to Washington as a clerk to Justice Harlan Fiske Stone of the Supreme Court, and returned to Columbia in 1933. He moved to emeritus status in 1978.
        From 1944 to 1946, Mr. Wechsler served as assistant attorney general in charge of the War Division, overseeing internments on the West Coast, martial law in Hawaii and, as the Allied victory neared, the development of a legal framework around which Nazi war criminals could be tried. When the Nuremberg Trials began, he was chief technical adviser to the American judges.
        Mr. Wechsler's wife, Doris, a lawyer who assisted the research on the Sullivan case, said that while the case was important, her husband did not count it as his greatest triumph.
        Rather, she said, he was most proud of his work on a decade-long project to create a model penal code. The American Law Institute's Model Penal Code, completed in 1962 and used as a guide by many state legislatures, has been an important force in creating greater consistency between the states' criminal codes.
        The code, she said, was ''a creative act that sprang from his own thinking and analytical abilities.''
        ''He wanted to produce a model that could be used by all the states at a time when most state criminal laws were a disorganized mess,'' Mrs. Wechsler said.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Wechsler is survived by his sister-in-law, Nancy Wechsler of Manhattan. Mr. Wechsler's brother, James A. Wechsler, a columnist and former editor of The New York Post, died in 1983.
        Mr. Wechsler's most controversial writing was probably his 1959 Harvard Law Review article ''Toward Neutral Principles,'' which helped to shape the debate that raged through the 1960's and early 1970's about how courts should balance the need for principles that can be applied equally to all parties against the pull of social and historic context.
        In that article, which generated intense criticism, Mr. Wechsler questioned the Supreme Court's reasoning in Brown v. Board of Education, the decision declaring segregated schools unconstitutional.
        ''I think he was trying to react to the extremes of the legal realists, the idea that everything was window-dressing for their personal preferences,'' Justice Ginsburg said. ''What his article did, very effectively, is remind us of lawyers' professional obligation to examine, unsparingly, even the ultimate triumphs of the legal system, like Brown v. Board of Education.
        ''His point was that the way we decide things is very often -- he'd say always, I'd say often -- as important as what we decide.''
      