
        Dr. Carey Hoyt Bostian, a geneticist who taught at North Carolina State University for 37 years and served as its chancellor for another 6, died on April 22 at his retirement home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 93.
        He joined the faculty in 1930 as an assistant professor of zoology and retired in 1973 as professor emeritus of poultry genetics. He served as chancellor from 1953 until 1959, when he stepped down, saying he preferred to teach.
        But his tenure as the university's seventh chancellor left its mark on the Raleigh campus with a robust expansion program that added 10 buildings, including one for the biological sciences, a mechanical engineering building and a library. He expanded scholarship programs, created the post of director of student affairs and inaugurated a faculty senate to give teachers a stronger voice in academic affairs.
        He also persuaded Gov. Luther Hodges to proceed with the creation of Research Triangle Park on 800 acres just outside Raleigh. Within a decade, the complex turned into a hefty attraction for Raleigh, drawing high-tech businesses and creating many thousands of well-paying jobs.
        Dr. Bostian had not applied for the chancellorship but was chosen over dozens of people who were nominated. His family said he took it out of a sense of obligation to the university but in the end missed teaching and his students and grew weary of the politicking that came with the job.
        He returned to the classroom and created new courses, like ''Genetics in Human Affairs,'' that remain popular fare on the campus today.
        Carey Bostian was born in rural China Grove, N.C., in 1907 and graduated from Catawba College in Salisbury, N.C., in 1928. He received a master's degree in zoology in 1930 and a doctorate in the field in 1933 from the University of Pittsburgh, then began his research in general and human genetics.
        His wife, Neita Corriher Bostian, died in 1990 after 61 years of marriage. He is survived by two sons, Dr. Lloyd R., of Madison, Wis., and Dr. K. Eugene, of Janesville, Wis.; 14 grandchildren, 17 great-grandchildren, and 1 great-great-grandchild.
      