
        The Rev. Dr. Bryant Mays Kirkland, minister emeritus of Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church in Manhattan, died on Easter Sunday at a hospital in Charlottesville, Va. He was 85 and lived on a farm in Churchville, Va.
        The cause was heart failure, the church said.
        Dr. Kirkland led New York City's largest Presbyterian congregation for over 25 years, from 1962 to 1987. He later served as president of the American Bible Society and interim minister at the National Presbyterian Church in Washington and congregations in Moorestown, N.J., and Malvern, Pa.
        He was a visiting lecturer in homiletics at Princeton Theological Seminary and a guest lecturer at the Army Chaplain School well into the 1990's. In recent years he also was a trustee of the John Templeton Foundation of Radnor, Pa., which promotes education and ''progress in religion.''
        Beginning in the late 1960's, Dr. Kirkland boarded a train for Princeton almost every Monday to teach preaching at the seminary. Among his students was the Rev. Dr. Thomas K. Tewell, a successor and current senior pastor at Fifth Avenue Presbyterian.
        Dr. Tewell recalled an occasion when a driver outside the church kept leaning on his horn during a sermon. Dr. Kirkland, he said, did not miss a beat and told the congregation:
        ''Would somebody, please, invite that distressed motorist into church! He needs to be in church. And while you're at it, give him a Bible.''
        One Ash Wednesday, Dr. Tewell said, there was much snow on the ground and Dr. Kirkland was urged to cancel his sermon. Instead, he went out to buy some carnations to present to the few worshipers who braved the elements.
        The flowers, he told them, were to remind them of God's love, and he asked them to pass on the blossoms to others later in the day so they might share that message.
        Dr. Kirkland, the son of a clergyman, was born in Essex, Conn., on May 2, 1914, and graduated in 1935 from Wheaton College in Illinois. He received his bachelor of theology at Princeton in 1938 and a master's degree at Eastern Baptist Seminary in 1946.
        Ordained a Presbyterian minister in 1938 in Philadelphia, he served congregations in Willow Grove, Pa.; Narberth, Pa.; Haddonfield, N.J.; and Tulsa, Okla., before taking the pulpit of Fifth Avenue Presbyterian in 1962.
        He was a past chairman of the board of trustees of Princeton Theological Seminary.
        Dr. Kirkland is survived by his wife, Lola Mae Shiftel Kirkland, whom he married two years ago. His first wife of 55 years, Bernice Tanis Kirkland, died in 1996. Also surviving are three daughters, Nancy Thompson of Corona del Mar, Calif., Elinor McFerren of Chicago and Virginia Stuart of San Francisco; two brothers, Nathaniel, of Kilmarnock, Pa., and Burnham, of Lakeland, Fla.; a sister, Margaret Musil, of Garden City, N.Y.; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      