
        Norman Drachler, superintendent of the Detroit school system during its most volatile period in the late 1960's and a champion of integrating both the administration and student body, died on Saturday at a hospital in Phoenix.
        He was 88 and lived in Phoenix.
        ''He believed in diversity and that black and white children should have opportunity to share their experiences,'' said Damon J. Keith, a federal judge and friend of Mr. Drachler.
        One of the first battles over integration began just two years into Mr. Drachler's tenure as superintendent, when a desegregation proposal involving just 3,000 of the system's 300,000 students was unveiled.
        ''That very modest plan caused considerable political reaction, ultimately leading to the recall of several school board members,'' said Arthur Johnson, who was appointed assistant superintendent by Mr. Drachler in 1966.
        In April 1970, the Detroit school board, following state law, decentralized the Detroit system. Afraid that the law would maintain or increase school segregation in the city, the board created a feeder pattern, channeling certain students from certain lower schools to the high schools, as a preventive measure. Whites began collecting signatures to oust the four members of the seven-member school board who voted for the plan.
        ''The mood of that time was to drag your feet,'' said Larry W. Hillman, a former professor at Wayne State University who was a consultant on school desegregation in that era. ''My observation was that he was looking at what are some of the best ways to do these things.''
        Mr. Drachler also pushed for more black district administrators and had a role in initiating a moratorium on buying textbooks, accusing the publishers of failing to create positive depictions of minorities, Mr. Johnson said.
        Norman Drachler was born in May 20, 1912, in Kaminetz-Podolsk, in what is now Ukraine. He immigrated to Detroit with his family in 1929.
        Mr. Drachler received a bachelor's degree in 1937 and a master's degree in education in 1939 from Wayne State and a doctorate in education from the University of Michigan in 1951. He embarked upon a 35-year career in the Detroit school system in 1937, rising from teacher  to become superintendent in 1966.
        After resigning in 1971, Mr. Drachler founded the Institute for Educational Leadership, which specializes in training administrators of urban school districts. The first institute was at George Washington University in Washington. He founded another institute with the same name three years later, when he moved to Stanford University in Palo Alto, Calif.
        Mr. Drachler is survived by his wife of 63 years, the former Evelyn Taxey; a brother, Sol Drachler of Detroit; a son, Dr. David H., of Phoenix, a daughter, Ruth M. Drachler of New York City; and four grandchildren.
      