
        Dr. Seymour Perry, a cancer specialist who became an expert in evaluating medical technology, died on May 19 at his home in Washington. He was 78.
        The cause of death was prostate cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Perry, who also served briefly as an assistant surgeon general, worked from 1961 until 1980 with the National Institutes of Health, where he was deputy director of the division of cancer treatment and chief of the branches for human tumor cell biology and for medicine.
        He later became known evaluating  health care systems and medical technology. For 15 years, he was director of the World Health Organization's Collaborating Center for Health Technology Assessment.
        In 1985, he was a founder and the first president of the International Society for Technology Assessment in Health Care, which encourages research and the exchange of information on the clinical and social implications of health care technology.
        In 1980, Dr. Perry was named assistant surgeon general. That year he was named the first director of the National Center for Health Care Technology, an agency created to determine which new medical technologies the government should finance through Medicare and other programs, but the agency was abolished in federal budget cuts.
        Dr. Perry also served twice with the Public Health Service, from 1952 to 1954 and from 1961 to 1982.
        In 1993, he was appointed chairman of the department of community and family medicine at the Georgetown University Medical Center and director of the center's Institute for Health Care Research and Policy.
        He was also professor of medicine and family medicine at Georgetown.
        Born in New York, he graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles and received his medical degree from the University of Southern California.
        Dr. Perry published more than 250 papers on technology assessment, cancer and other health issues.
        Surviving are his wife of 49 years, Judith Perry; two sons, Grant, of Ridgefield, Conn., and David, of Fulton, Md.; a daughter, Anne Dunlap of Olney, Md.; a sister, Jean Mandler of Los Angeles; and three grandsons.
      