
        Tony Arefin, a self-taught graphic designer and art director of periodicals, art catalogs and advertisements who was responsible for influential ad designs like the handwritten look of the current I.B.M. ''magic box'' campaign, died on May 19 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 38.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Amanda, said.
        Mr. Arefin successfully straddled the often polarized worlds of magazines and advertising.
        ''He was an art director who thought like an editor,'' said Chee Pearlman, former editor of ID magazine, who hired Mr. Arefin as creative director in 1993. ''He could write smart headlines as well as reduce complex subjects into clear visual forms.''
        For Mr. Arefin the components of graphic design -- type and image -- were but tools for telling stories about issues and phenomena within the popular culture. Although he began his career in London as a gallery and museum curator of art and photography, the fine art scene was too sealed off for him.
        Abed Arefin was born in Karachi, Pakistan; he was later nicknamed Tony by his mother. He moved with his family to Bangladesh and in 1974, during political strife there, fled to London. As a teenager, his wife said, he suffered from racial prejudice and felt like an outsider. He also suffered episodes of the severe depression that plagued him throughout his life, she said. He left school early and held menial jobs, intensifying his sense of inferiority but giving him the will to advance.
        By chance while making a movie, he was offered a job as a curator at the Photography Gallery in London. It was there in 1985 that he mounted ''Five Years of The Face,'' a retrospective exhibition of the popular magazine The Face, designed by Neville Brody. Mr. Arefin credited Mr. Brody, whom he also hired to design art catalogs, as indirectly making him realize that he should pursue graphic design as a career.
        Mr. Arefin started designing his own art catalogs. He proved to have a natural talent for typography and became so prolific that the design critic Rick Poynor wrote in the British magazine Blueprint that Mr. Arefin was ''single-handedly processing the print needs of the entire British art scene.''
        ID magazine sent Mr. Arefin to New York, where for the first time he felt comfortable being who he was, according to his wife. His work in New York drew on everything that interested him, from polished professionalism to street art.
        While he worked on ID he was also art director of Bomb, an arts magazine, and Blind Spot, an art photography quarterly. He found magazines too limited in terms of audience and earnings, however. Leaving his wife and their two young sons behind in New York, he accepted an offer from the advertising agency Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore., to become an art director for the Microsoft brand.
        ''He was a huge help in our efforts to bring better design and style, no easy task,'' recalled Michael Prieve, the co-creative director of the agency's New York office. Mr. Arefin also created a striking print campaign for Nike, introducing its ''I can'' theme. Colleagues said he had sold out to advertising, but he bitterly responded that it was a means of reaching a larger audience with strong ideas.
        Despite a good working relationship at the agency, Mr. Arefin told his wife that he felt racial pressures in Portland, and after two years he returned to New York.
        He joined Ogilvy & Mather as associate creative director and senior partner and worked most recently on the I.B.M. ''magic box'' campaign.
        By using handwritten lettering scrawled over monumental photographs of the ''box,'' which is a computer server, he gave the product a human aura.
        He also worked as a creative director on the Lotus Notes ''I Am Superman'' campaign, which pulled individuals out of crowds to indicate the personal nature of the product.
        Besides his design and concept work, Mr. Arefin recruited other creative people and helped them do their best work.
        Chris Wall at Ogilvy & Mather said, ''Given how many people he brought into the agency, you might say that he formed a community of Tony Arefin.''
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Rafi, 11, and Sami, 9, of New York; his parents, Shamsul and Abeda, and a sister, Ayesha, all of London.
      