
        Frank G. Wangeman, one of the first hotel managers to integrate modern business management techniques with Old World attention to guests and a mentor to a generation of hotel managers, died Monday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 88.
        In his 39 years with the Hilton Hotels Corporation, Mr. Wangeman helped to create what was the world's largest hotel chain from the mid-1950's through the early 1970's.
        Jack Clark, a professor at the Cornell School of Hotel Administration, said Mr. Wangeman's influence was far-reaching. If you were in the hotel industry, he said, ''Somewhere along the way you'd know someone who has worked under him or trained under him, and he had made an impact on their lives.''
        Frank George Wangeman was born on April 20, 1912, in Frankfurt.  His father, Franz, was the manager of Frankfurter Hof, one of the top hotels in Europe at the time.
        The younger Mr. Wangeman graduated from the Lausanne hotel school in Switzerland, and worked at  top hotels in Paris and London before moving to New York in 1932 to become assistant manager at the Waldorf-Astoria.
        In 1943, his attention to detail caught the eye of a frequent guest, Conrad Hilton.
        ''Frank noticed that Mr. Hilton had been assigned a room, rather than a suite,'' said Mr. Wangeman's wife, Marie. ''He saw the mistake and corrected it, and Mr. Hilton said, 'I need a young man like you, who watches for mistakes.' ''
        After five years of managing various Hilton hotels, Mr. Wangeman was sent to open the Caribe Hilton in Puerto Rico.
        At that time, there was no service industry on the island, so Mr. Wangeman devised tests to decide who had aptitude for certain jobs. The test for dishwashers, for instance, consisted of moving pegs on a pegboard on a table. The applicant who moved the pegs fastest and with the most dexterity got the job.
        To forestall workers' resentment over being assigned work that might be considered demeaning, Mr. Wangeman enlisted Conrad Hilton's brother, Carl, to empty trash at the hotel for a while.
        Mr. Wangeman participated in the Advanced Management Program at Harvard University, and in 1960 took over the reins of the Waldorf-Astoria, which had been purchased by the Hilton organization in 1949.
        He and his family lived in an apartment on the 41st floor for 22 years, and he played host to celebrities like Frank Sinatra, Dwight D. Eisenhower and the Duke and Duchess of Windsor.
        In addition to his wife of 54 years, the former Marie Moyle, he is survived by two sons, Henry, of Oaxaca, Mexico, and Conrad, of Pittsburgh; two daughters, Alberta Lamson of Seattle, and Marie Sheppard of Las Vegas; and nine grandchildren.
      