
        Alfred LevittAlfred Levitt, a worldly American painter and photographer who rubbed shoulders with noted artists in his long life, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 105 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        Mr. Levitt immigrated to New York from Ukraine in 1911 and became an artist after serving in the United States Navy in World War I. In the next 80-odd years he produced many hundreds of paintings, a score of which are owned by the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        A Greenwich Village painter friend of his, Michael Usyk, recalled that Mr. Levitt began as a Realist painter, influenced by Robert Henri, an American artist and teacher, and became intrigued by Cubism after studying in 1936 in Greenwich Village under the modernist artist and teacher Hans Hofmann.
        ''That introduced Alfred to European Cubist ideas about painting,'' Mr. Usyk said. ''Over the next decade he retained that but added an American look to his work.''
        In 1983 the art gallery owner and dealer Terry Dintenfass held a Manhattan exhibition of watercolors that Mr. Levitt had painted in the 1940's in Gloucester, Mass.
        ''Mr. Levitt was part of a group of painters,'' Ms. Dintenfass said at the time of that show, ''who spent summers in the 1940's enthusiastically painting in the New England coastal town of Gloucester. Together they adapted Cubism to American themes and played a significant role in the Americanization of modernism.''
        Among the other painters in the group were Milton Avery, George Constant, Stuart Davis, Mark Rothko and Adolph Gottlieb.
        More recently, Mr. Levitt had one-artist shows in the Ellis Island Museum in 1997 and 1998.
        During his first, hardscrabble years in Manhattan, Mr. Levitt studied art at the Ferrer Art School on East 107th Street, where he modeled nude so he could hear Mr. Henri's lectures without paying.
        Early in Mr. Levitt's career, he recalled last year, ''I met Alfred Stieglitz when he had the place on Fifth Avenue.''
        He continued: ''Georgia O'Keeffe was one of the painters in his gallery. I met her. We talked about the beauty of art.''
        At another time Mr. Levitt and the French artist Marcel Duchamp shared a 14th Street building.
        ''He had a studio over mine,'' Mr. Levitt recalled. ''But he was a queer duck. When he saw me walking up the staircase in the evening, he'd say, 'Good morning.' And if he met me in the morning, he'd say, 'Good evening, Alfred.' ''
        Over the years Mr. Levitt's artist friends included Marsden Hartley, David Smith, William Gropper and Everitt Shinn.
        After World War II he made frequent visits to Europe and took hundreds of photographs of prehistoric art on the walls of caves in France and Spain. For that work he was made a knight of the French Order of Arts and Letters in 1975.
        He married Gertrude Horowitz in 1930; she died in 1983.
        His survivors include three nephews, George Neustadt of Martinsville, N.J.; Jack Levitt of Altamonte Springs, Fla.; and Harry Neville of Manhattan.
      