
        Eric Turner, the Oakland Raiders defensive back who was a two-time All-Pro during his nine seasons in the National Football League, died Sunday at a hospital in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 31.
        The cause was apparently complications of abdominal cancer, according to Craig Stevens, the medical examiner at the Ventura County Coroner's office.
        Two weeks ago, Turner, a free safety, issued a statement denying a published report that he was gravely ill. He declined to provide details on his medical condition, saying, ''I realize people are concerned, but I have chosen to keep this issue within my family.'' Turner had missed the Raiders' minicamp in April, but the team had declined to comment on reports concerning his health.
        Turner, a native of Ventura, Calif., was selected by the Cleveland Browns as the No. 2 choice over all in the 1991 draft, behind Russell Maryland, the defensive lineman taken by the Dallas Cowboys. When he had arrived at the N.F.L. scouting combine in Indianapolis, several other defensive backs seemed ahead of him in the eyes of pro scouts. But after he ran a 40-yard sprint in under 4.4 seconds, he vaulted to the No. 2 draft spot and received a four-year contract worth $6 million.
        Terry Donahue, Turner's coach at U.C.L.A. and now the San Francisco 49ers' director of player personnel, said Turner was ''as good a Bruin football player as there ever was.'' His 369 tackles were fourth on the career list when he turned professional.
        Turner was selected to the Pro Bowl in 1994, when he tied for the league lead in interceptions with nine, including a 93-yard return for a touchdown against the Arizona Cardinals. He was selected as the American Football Conference player of the month for December. Turner was an All-Pro again in 1996, when he had five interceptions, the most on his team, which had become the Baltimore Ravens.
        Turner, a 6-foot-1-inch 210-pounder, signed a four-year contract with the Raiders as a free agent before the 1997 season. He led Oakland in tackles that year with 111 but played in only six games in 1998 because of a foot injury and in 10 games in 1999 because of a calf injury.
        The Raiders signed the free-agent safeties Anthony Dorsett and Je'Rod Cherry during the off-season, but renegotiated Turner's contract in March, signing him through 2003.
        Turner is survived by a son, Eric Turner Jr.
      