
        Samuel Taylor, who wrote Broadway confections like ''Sabrina Fair'' and ''The Pleasure of His Company''  and worked on the script for the  Hitchcock thriller ''Vertigo,'' died on Friday at his home in Blue Hill, Me. He was 87.
        Favoring the genre in which Philip Barry famously tweaked the rich and evah-so-charming, as in ''The Philadelphia Story,'' Mr. Taylor did his own skewering in ''Sabrina Fair,'' which opened on Broadway in 1953.
        The now familiar fable introduced the genteel and enormously rich Larrabee brothers of Long Island; their chauffeur, Fairchild; and his daughter, Sabrina. It starred Joseph Cotten and Scott McKay, with Margaret Sullavan cast as the brilliant, Paris-educated Sabrina.
        Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times deemed it beguiling, and called it an ''unpretentious comedy with genuine quality in the writing and acting,'' adding that the cast was heavenly.
        ''Mr. Taylor does not try to conquer the audience,'' he concluded. ''He wins it by writing with taste and good humor about agreeable people.''
        Atkinson found the play's subtle stylishness much different from Mr. Taylor's Broadway debut in 1950 with an adaptation of the Robert Fontaine novel ''The Happy Time,'' about the foibles of a French-Canadian family in the 1920's. That play, Mr. Atkinson wrote, was an ''entertaining prank,'' whose humors ''were broad and bawdy.''
        The film director Billy Wilder, with Mr. Taylor and Ernest Lehman as co-writers, enchanted movie audiences in 1954 with ''Sabrina,'' starring a heartbreaking Audrey Hepburn, with Humphrey Bogart and William Holden as the Larrabees. Sydney Pollack, in turn used the Wilder-Taylor-Lehman material for his own run on ''Sabrina,'' starring Harrison Ford, Greg Kinnear and Julia Ormond, in 1995.
        Mr. Taylor's ''Pleasure of His Company,'' written with and starring Cornelia Otis Skinner, opened in 1958, with Cyril Ritchard, the young Dolores Hart and George Peppard sharing the stage. ''Throughly delightful,'' Mr. Atkinson wrote. ''Comedy of manners is not obsolete after all,'' he said. ' ''The Pleasure of His Company' gives pleasure on both sides of the footlights.''
        While working on the play, Mr. Taylor was enlisted by Hitchcock to mend the script of ''Vertigo,'' which had already gone through two writers. Mr. Taylor made substantial changes, added characters and dashes of San Francisco color and decided to let the audience in on the film's secret well ahead of the fadeout.
        The film premiered in 1958. A restored version in a 70-millimeter print was released in 1996, and two years later the American Film Institute listed it as one of 100 best American movies. Although Mr. Taylor considered himself a playwright first and foremost, his film credits also included another Hitchcock film, ''Topaz,'' as well as ''The Eddy Duchin Story,'' ''Goodbye Again'' and ''Rosie.''
        Born in Chicago, Samuel Albert Taylor attended the University of California at Berkeley in the early 1930's, with interruptions to ship out as a merchant seaman. In the mid-30's he set out for New York and a writing career.
        He soon became enamored of the theater and found work as a play doctor and rewriter, for which he received no writing credit. He worked on the Clifford Goldsmith play ''What a Life'' and wrote radio scripts for ''The Aldrich Family,'' the series based on it.
        While holding on to his day job in radio, he spent several years completing ''The Happy Time.'' Its success enabled him to give up radio comedies for good.
        He strayed into musicals once, writing the book for the 1962 play ''No Strings,'' music and lyrics by Richard Rodgers. It was the story of a white expatriate writer in Paris (Richard Kiley), who falls in love with a black model (Diahann Carroll).
        It played on Broadway for more than a year, but plans for a movie version fell through because the producers foresaw trouble from Southern distributors.
        Mr. Taylor's other plays included ''Beekman Place'' (1964), ''Avanti!'' (1968), ''A Touch of Spring'' (1975), ''Flying Colors'' (1985), and ''Three by Three'' (1988).
        Mr. Taylor is survived by his wife of 60 years, Suzanne Combes Taylor; two sons, David, of Brookline, Mass., and Michael, of Berkeley; a stepdaughter, Ellinor Mitchell of Manhattan; and nine grandchildren.
      