
        Robert P. Casey, the governor of Pennsylvania from 1987 to 1994, whose strong opposition to abortion put him at odds with the Democratic Party, died yesterday in Scranton, where he lived. He was 68.
        The cause was an infection.
        Mr. Casey helped to draw national attention to organ donations after his life was saved by a rare heart and liver transplant in 1993, when he was still governor.
        But Mr. Casey made his national reputation as an anti-abortion politician. In 1992, he sought to give a speech against abortion at the Democratic National Convention in New York but was turned down by the party's leadership. Ronald H. Brown, who was then the Democratic national chairman, said of Mr. Casey's abortion stance: ''We have a fundamental disagreement with him on this issue.''
        Walter Goodman, the television critic of The New York Times, wrote that Governor Casey ''was not permitted on camera for fear that his sour note on abortion would disturb the symphony of unity'' at the convention, which was on its way toward nominating Bill Clinton of Arkansas for president.
        In a book that he wrote after he left office, ''Fighting for Life'' (Word Books, 1996), Mr. Casey said that buttons depicting him as the pope were sold at the convention by abortion-rights advocates.
        ''To me, it was simply a case of anti-Catholic bigotry,'' Mr. Casey wrote. ''What was going on here? What had become of the Democratic Party I once knew?''
        Mr. Casey also complained of commentators who were quick to mention his Catholicism. ''Because I'm pro-life,'' he wrote, ''my religion is always thrown in there like some little code word to the reader saying 'Watch out for this guy. He's a Catholic. He's one of those people.' ''
        As governor, he signed a law in 1989 imposing a 24-hour waiting period for abortions in Pennsylvania. Planned Parenthood sued, and the law ended up being argued before the United States Supreme Court in 1992. The court upheld the waiting period even as it affirmed the right to abortion.
        In 1991, Mr. Casey was told that he had a life-threatening disease, amyloidosis, which caused his liver to produce an abnormal protein that built up in the walls of his heart, weakening it. Four years earlier, he had quadruple bypass surgery after a heart attack, and although he recovered, his health continued to decline.
        In 1993, he received the heart and liver of a murder victim in an experimental operation that took 15 hours at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.
        He received the organs just hours after his name was put on a waiting list. By comparison, the United Network for Organ Sharing said the median wait for a liver transplant was 67 days and for a heart transplant 198 days. Dr. John Armitage, who performed the heart transplant, said the received the organs because his  ''life was in imminent danger'' and that the operation was his last chance to survive.
        Mr. Casey was barred by state law from seeking a third term. After he left office, he resumed his law practice and became a public advocate for organ donations.
        Robert Patrick Casey was born in Jackson Heights, Queens, on Jan. 9, 1932. His family moved when he was young to Scranton, Pa., where his father, Alphonsus, worked as a coal miner before becoming a lawyer at the age of 40.
        He attended Holy Cross College on a basketball scholarship, graduating in 1953, and then went to George Washington University Law School, where he earned his degree in 1956.
        Mr. Casey was elected state senator and auditor general but was defeated three times in the Democratic primary when he ran for governor. He finally won his party's nomination for governor in 1986 and was expected to lose to the Republican candidate, William W. Scranton 3d, who was then the lieutenant governor and who carried a prominent name in Pennsylvania.
        ''All the smart guys said I would lose,'' Mr. Casey said. ''I was 17 points down in August and the other guy was the son of a former governor, son of an ambassador. He had $1 million. I didn't have a penny. But I never doubted I would win.''
        He won narrowly, his victory ascribed to a commercial that said that Mr. Scranton's ''only real job was lieutenant governor, and they gave him that because of his father's name.''
        He was a popular governor and ran again in 1990, defeating his Republican opponent by more than a million votes, the largest margin in the state's history.
        Despite his differences with his party over abortion, Mr. Casey remained a Democrat.
        ''As far as the Republican Party is concerned, the business of government is business,'' he said in an interview with The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette shortly before leaving office. ''That's their agenda. That's their opening act, and their closing act and their in-between act.''
        Mr. Casey tried to establish universal health care for every resident of Pennsylvania, but failed. He did sign a bill providing health insurance for children whose families were too poor to pay for it but whose incomes were too high to be eligible for public medical assistance.
        And in 1988, a Casey plan that required most residents to separate their trash for recycling was approved, making Pennsylvania the largest state to require recycling. He also got the Legislature to approve a hazardous-site cleanup law.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ellen Theresa Harding; four daughters, Margi McGrath, Mary Ellen Philbin, Kate Brier and Erin Walsh; four sons, Robert Jr., Christopher, Patrick and Matthew; and numerous grandchildren
      