
        William Mehojah, the last pure-blooded member of the Kaw Indian tribe, died of lung failure on April 23 at a hospital in Omaha. He was 82.
        Mr. Mehojah's Indian name was Little Star, and he belonged to the Night Clan of a Plains tribe known as the Wind People. He watched with withering spirits as the last four other purebred Kaw, all related to him, died in recent years.
        ''The reality of being the last full blood to me is sad and lonely,'' Mr. Mehojah, a former tribal chairman, said in the Kaw newsletter in 1997.
        Joann Obregon, secretary of the tribe's executive council, said the end of the line for Kaw purebreds, though inevitable because of cultural prohibitions against marrying even distant relatives, weighed heavily on the tribe.
        ''It's sad when you think of the hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of Kaw purebreds in the past, and then realize there will never be another,'' Ms. Obregon said.
        Mr. Mehojah's death is part of a larger, seemingly inexorable thinning of Indian blood. A federal study has estimated that the percentage of full-blooded Indians has declined to 34 percent from 60 percent in 1980, and that it will fall to 0.3 percent by 2080.
        At the same time, people are lining up to receive official status as Indians, the result of mounting pride among Indians as well as some tribes' windfalls from casinos. Of 2,464 Kaw tribal members, just 270 have more than one-quarter Kaw blood. To be classified as a member, a person must prove that he or she is related to someone whose name is recorded in the tribal roll of 1902. Some have done this with as little as one sixty-fourth Kaw blood.
        The Kaw are also called the Kanza or Kansa and gave their name to the state before that land was taken from them and they were transported to Oklahoma. They arrived in  Kansas in the latter part of the 16th century from the Ohio River Valley,  with four other tribes. They made their home on about 20 million acres in what became northern Kansas, southern Nebraska and western Missouri, and roamed beyond Colorado  to hunt buffalo.
        With the coming of settlers, the tribe was confined to ever smaller reservations. Their first reservation of 2 million acres was reduced to 256,000 acres, and their last was 85,000 acres.
        ''In each case, the whites just came in and helped themselves to their land,'' said Ronald Parks, curator of Kaw Mission State Historic Site in Council Grove, Kan.
        The Kaw, who traditionally lived in round lodges made of molded earth, were seldom bellicose. On one of the few occasions when several revolted, two warriors were hung on Council Grove's Main Street in 1859.
        In 1872, Interior Secretary Columbus Delano visited Council Grove to deliver the news that the Kaw would be deported to Oklahoma, then known as Indian Territory, the next year. Chief Al-Le-Ga-Wa-Ho received the news coldly.
        ''Great father,'' the chief said, ''you whites treat us Kaws like a flock of turkeys. You chase us to one stream, then you chase us to another stream. Soon you will chase us over the mountains and into the ocean, and we will have no place to live.''
        William Mehojah was born in 1917, and grew up in a frame house on a land allotment in Washunga, Okla. The land allotments were distributed to individual Indians after the reservation was dissolved in 1902. His family farmed corn and other grains.
        He spoke the Kaw language until the death of his father, who spoke the language. His mother did not, and he lost his ability to speak his native tongue, though he could always understand it. The last native Kaw speakers died in the mid-1970's.
        Prodded by his mother to get an education so he could work in an office, Mr. Mehojah graduated from a college now known as Haskell Indian Nations University in Lawrence, Kan. He served in the Army in World War II, and then worked for more than 30 years with the Bureau of Indian Affairs in Montana, the Dakotas, Idaho and Arizona. He retired in 1976, and moved back to Kaw City.
        He was elected to the tribal council in 1986 and became chairman of the tribe a year later. In his three years of leadership, he led in drafting a new tribal constitution that enabled the tribe to develop businesses like a bingo parlor, a motel and a truck stop. The result is that the tribe has amassed $13.5 million in assets and 1,000 acres of commonly held land.
        Last February, the newly assertive tribe purchased 150 acres for a park at Council Grove to commemorate its heritage. Mr. Mehojah attended the dedication of the park, which will include ruins of 3 of 138 stone huts that the federal government had built for the Kaw. They spurned them, using them only as stables for their horses and dogs.
        Another planned memorial is a statue of a Kaw warrior to be placed on the top of the Capitol of Kansas, a state which summarily evicted the tribe in 1873. The first step is a campaign to raise funds to strengthen the roof to support the sculpture.
        As Mr. Mehojah's health declined, he and his wife, Fredericka, moved to Omaha a year ago to be near their daughter Sandra Mehojah. He is also survived by another daughter, Fredericka Jan Joseph of Hanover, Md.; a son, William Jr., of Chantilly, Va., seven grandchildren; and two great-grandsons.
      