
        Antonio Buero Vallejo, a highly admired Spanish playwright who made his name as a dissident during  Franco's long rule and who in 1986 was awarded the Cervantes Prize, the country's highest literary honor, died on April 28 in a hospital in Madrid. He was 83.
        Mr. Buero Vallejo, whose work was distinguished by a commitment to freedom and justice, was among a small circle of Spanish intellectuals who remained in Spain as dissidents during the Franco dictatorship.
        Having fought in the Republican ranks in the Spanish Civil War, he was arrested in 1939 and condemned to death, but the sentence was commuted and he was released from jail in 1946.
        Theater was always central to his life. He was born in Guadalajara, Spain, and enjoyed playing puppet theater as a child. When he was a teenager, he moved to Madrid to study at the School of Fine Arts.
        But his literary ambitions were interrupted when the Spanish Civil War broke out in 1936. His father was immediately arrested and executed by Franco's forces, leading the young man to join the Republican forces.
        The experience of war and prison influenced his writing throughout his career. His best-known work, ''Historia de una Escalera'' (''The Story of a Staircase''), written in 1949 and still widely performed, captured the physical and moral decay of Spain in the early years after the civil war. Even though this work and subsequent ones portrayed the dark side of life under Franco, their performance was rarely banned.
        In 1957 he was awarded the National Theater Prize for ''Hoy Es Fiesta'' (''Today Is a Holiday''). In 1962 he wrote ''El Concierto de San Ovidio'' (''The Concert of San Ovidio''), a parable about blindness in which he portrayed Spanish society as depressed and paralyzed by fear.
        Other works that reflected the hardship of daily life were ''El Tragaluz'' (''The Skylight''); ''El Sueno de Razon'' (''The Dream of Reason''); and ''La Fundacion'' (''The Foundation'').
        In 1971, in the dying years of the Franco era, he was elected to the Spanish Royal Academy, an occasion he used to praise Federico Garcia Lorca, the playwright murdered in 1936 by Franco's forces. Mr. Buero Vallejo's most recent work was ''Mision en el Pueblo Desierto''  (''Mission in an Empty Village'').
        Even after suffering a stroke in  the autumn, he remained engaged in theater. One week before his death he went to the Maria Guerrero Theater in Madrid to see his wife, the actress Victoria Rodriguez, perform in Friedrich Durrenmatt's play ''The Visit of the Old Woman.''
        Mr. Buero Vallejo is also survived by one of their two sons; their other son died in a car accident some years ago.
      