
        Bill Musselman, who in the last 35 years held 13 head coaching jobs in college and professional basketball and left an imprint everywhere as a volatile, intense taskmaster, died yesterday at the Mayo Clinic's St. Marys Hospital in Rochester, Minn. He was 59.
        A Mayo Clinic spokesman said the cause of death was heart and kidney failure related to liver disease. Musselman suffered a stroke last October. Last month he received a diagnosis of multiple myeloma, cancer of the bone marrow. His doctors said he also had amyloidosis, which causes the liver to produce an abnormal protein that attacks body organs.
        For the last three seasons, he was an assistant coach of the Portland Trail Blazers of the National Basketball Association. When the Trail Blazers played the Minnesota Timberwolves in the first round of this year's playoffs, he wanted to sit behind the Trail Blazers' bench, but his doctors would not let him leave the hospital. On Tuesday night, when the Trail Blazers won the series, their players and coaches signed the game ball as a gift to him.
        His biography, by Bill Heller, was aptly titled ''Obsessed.'' He slept three to five hours a night because he would not spare more time from work. For four years he kept a VCR at the foot of his bed so he could watch game film until he drifted off to sleep.
        Once, when his Albany Patroons of the Continental Basketball Association lost a game, he screamed in the locker room. As he recalled it, he told his players:
        ''You guys haven't beaten anybody. Who have you beaten? I saw a couple of players, their eyes rolling around, and I walked away thinking, 'Come on, they're 30-3 and you're still challenging them.' ''
        At 25, Musselman became the head coach at Ashland University in Ohio, where his team set a National Collegiate Athletic Association record by allowing an average of only 33.9 points a game over a season. In six seasons at Ashland (1965-71), four at Minnesota (1971-75) and two at South Alabama (1995-97), his teams won 233 games and lost 84.
        He brought Minnesota its first Big Ten title in 53 years, sold-out arenas, 127 N.C.A.A. violations and a 1972 brawl that sent three Ohio State players to a hospital.
        In the N.B.A., he coached the Cleveland Cavaliers for two seasons (1980-82) and became the first coach of the expansion Minnesota Timberwolves (1989-91). His N.B.A. record was 78-180. He also coached professionals in the American Basketball Association, the Western Basketball Association and the C.B.A.
        William Clifford Musselman was born Aug. 13, 1940, in Wooster, Ohio. He was a decent high school athlete whose basketball team fared well against a neighboring team led by Bobby Knight.
        At Wittenberg University, Musselman, 5 feet 10 inches and 175 pounds, lettered in basketball, football and baseball. He received a bachelor's degree from Wittenberg and a master's in education from Kent State.
        One regret, he said, was not spending more time with his family. He is survived by his wife, Julie; their son, Max; and a son, Eric, and a daughter, Nicole, from a previous marriage. Eric is an assistant coach for the Orlando Magic of the N.B.A.
        Not all of Musselman's players enjoyed him. Sidney Lowe, an assistant coach of the Timberwolves who played on three of Musselman's C.B.A. champion teams, said he liked the coach.
        ''You have to be a Bill Musselman player to play for him,'' Lowe once said. ''He wants guys he can put together like a chain, linked.''
        Musselman once explained his intensity this way:
        ''I love competition. I don't know why. A lot of people don't like competition. They'd rather go set up a business down the block where there's no competition. I want my business where there's three other guys doing the same thing.''
        Yet the intense man could laugh at himself, too. Once, he was asked the most irrational thing he had ever done. The answer came quickly.
        ''Coach basketball,'' he said.
      