
        Teddy Brenner, the longtime Madison Square Garden matchmaker whose keen eye for appraising fighters was matched by his clever ability to deal with their managers, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 82 and had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Judith.
        In a career that carried him from the dusty, smoke-filled arenas that used to dot the New York metropolitan area to Madison Square Garden, Brenner had an unswerving philosophy when he got fighters together: will the public like the fight and will it make a buck?
        Brenner's skill was in employing the boxing axiom that styles make fights. But it wasn't always easy to bring them to fruition. Fighters are nervous about their opponents, and fighters' managers are suspicious that the other side is getting a better deal.
        Yet, Brenner was able to swing his most noted effort in 1971: bringing together the unbeaten heavyweights Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier to the Garden in the first of their epic battles.
        Each wanted to be paid more than the other. Each had a manager who wanted the upper hand: Ali's was Herbert Muhammad, a disciple of Elijah Muhammad of the Temple of Islam; Frazier's managers were Philadelphia business executives.
        Brenner not only guaranteed each fighter $5 million, but also watched Frazier win one of the great battles, a 15-rounder.
        Even for smaller purses, Brenner had trials. There was one manager at Eastern Parkway Arena in Brooklyn who turned down every opponent Brenner would offer. Finally, in a story Brenner enjoyed telling, he went to the manager and gave him the names of three possible opponents. What Brenner didn't tell the manager was that they didn't exist. He made up the names to see if he could have a starting point for negotiations.
        ''I don't like the first two you gave me,'' the manager told Brenner, ''but I'll take the third guy.''
        Brenner came to the sport as a shirt salesman. He was a fight buff, though, and used to talk to the promoters -- the men who ran the arenas or put up the money for fights -- about his ideal matches. He was given his chance in a small arena in New Brunswick, N.J., and then moved to Eastern Parkway, where he showcased Floyd Patterson, the 1952 Olympic light-heavyweight champion. Under Brenner, Eastern Parkway became known as the House of Upsets.
        Brenner joined the Garden in 1959 and was the matchmaker for 14 years. He became head of the boxing department when Harry Markson retired and remained until 1978, when Sonny Werblin became the Garden's president and teamed with Don King.
        Over the years, Brenner had run-ins with promoters and managers over what he interpreted as suggestions to fix fights. He detailed many of these incidents in a book he wrote with Barney Nagler in 1981, ''When Only the Ring Was Square.''
        In addition to his wife, Brenner is survived by a son, Richard, of Pittsburgh; a daughter, Marsha, of Berkeley, Calif.; a brother, Albert, of Los Angeles; and five grandchildren.
        In his book Brenner told of being in Sonny Liston's dressing room before his rematch with Muhammad Ali in 1965. Joe Louis was visiting, too.
        Liston looked at the old champion and said, ''Joe, I don't feel so good.''
        Louis replied: ''What do you mean, you don't feel so good? You gonna win.''
        Liston looked down, according to Brenner, then raised his head and said, ''Just ain't right, Joe.''
        Liston was knocked out in the first round by what came to be known as a phantom punch.
      