
        Richard Bertram, a champion sailor on powerboats and racing yachts and a leading boat builder and broker, died on April 28 at his home in Stuart, Fla. He was 84.
        When Bertram raced, he always looked for other boats to sell. In a 1961 profile, The Saturday Evening Post said he sold $5 million worth of used racing boats the year before.
        Among his clients were Aristotle Onassis, the Aga Khan, King Hussein of Jordan and Prince Bertil of Sweden. Bertram appeared on a Times Square billboard for Camel cigarettes and in a full-page magazine ad for Hennessy Cognac.
        To an enterprise in which salesmen once dressed more for picnicking or gardening, he brought glitz and a hard-nosed business approach. One Miami rival said, ''His outfit has all the gimmicks -- big parties, big ads, big talk.'' Bertram was proud of his aggressive sales methods and said 25 percent of his customers had never owned a boat before.
        ''The country's economy may take a nose dive and people may go broke,'' Bertram once explained, ''but the records show that even in the worst financial crises there is always a man ready to buy a boat. And I'll be there to sell it.''
        On the banks of the Tamiami Canal near Miami International Airport, he built what he called his boating supermarket. There, in water in a steel and concrete shed 630 feet (two football fields) long, he displayed more than 100 of his biggest cruisers and sailboats.
        Richard Howard Bertram was born Feb. 4, 1916, in East Orange, N.J. He began sailing with his parents on Barnegat Bay in New Jersey. At 8, he owned his first boat, a 15-foot Sneakbox. At 10, on the eve of his first race, he stayed up all night planning how to win. There were 50 boats; he finished last. He would seldom finish out of the money again.
        At Cornell, he was skipper of the intercollegiate championship boats in 1936 and 1937. His classroom success was not as good. After failing French twice, he dropped out of college. In 1946, he opened a one-room yacht brokerage office in Miami.
        In 1958, when he was sailing on Vim in the America's Cup trials off Newport, R.I., he was amazed when a powerboat cut through 6-foot seas at 30 knots. He traced down its designer, Raymond C. Hunt, who said his boat could go that fast on choppy waters because of a full deep-V bottom on its 23-foot hull. Bertram commissioned Hunt to design a similar 31-foot powerboat for him. In 1960, with the new boat, Bertram and Sam Griffith won the Miami-Nassau race, two hours in front of the next boat.
        With that boat and successors, Bertram won many United States and European offshore powerboat races, including the 1965 world championship. To translate the virtues of the deep-V hull into high-performance yachts at least 50 feet long, he founded Bertram International. The yachts he built succeeded quickly, and in 1969, aboard his 56-foot Bertram International yacht Envoy, he set a Miami-New York nonstop record of 54 hours 8 minutes.
        In yachting, he won the 1948 and 1949 international championships in Lightning Class sloops. He won or placed high in Miami-to-Nassau 13 times, Newport-to-Bermuda 10 times, Lipton Cup 6 times, Trans-Atlantic 4 times and Buenos Aires-to-Rio de Janeiro twice.
        His first two marriages, to Katherine Ivins and Pauline Meagher, ended in divorce. His third wife, Lenore Lonergan, died. He is survived by his fourth wife, the former Franchesca Morales; five sons, Scott, Kim, Morgan, Colin and Digby; five daughters, Charlotte, Gretchen, Anne, Caroline and Madelaine; a stepson, John Holzman; five grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter, who was born the day before he died.
      