
        Douglas Fairbanks Jr., a debonair actor, producer, administrator, bon vivant and Anglo-American ambassador without portfolio, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90.
        Mr. Fairbanks, 6 feet tall with dashing good looks, struggled to carve a distinctive acting career in the shadow of his superstar father, who was the unrivaled swashbuckler of silent films. The son was not the gymnast that his father was, but he was a versatile actor who easily played a wide variety of roles.
        He was a young lover (only 15) in ''Stella Dallas'' (1925), a wastrel in ''A Woman of Affairs'' (1928), a heroic pilot in ''The Dawn Patrol'' (1930), a suicidal romantic in ''Outward Bound'' (1930), a gigolo in ''Little Caesar'' (1931), an actor in ''Morning Glory'' (1933) and a mad czar in ''Catherine the Great'' (1934).
        He refused most swashbuckling roles in his youth to avoid comparisons with his father, but he was superb as a caddish rogue, Rupert of Hentzau, in ''The Prisoner of Zenda.'' That 1937 performance led to a string of successes, including four 1938 comedies (''Joy of Living,'' ''The Rage of Paris,'' ''Having Wonderful Time'' and ''The Young in Heart''); the action-adventure classic ''Gunga Din'' (1939); an offbeat black comedy, ''Angels Over Broadway'' (1940); and ''The Corsican Brothers'' (1941), in which he played both title roles.
        As World War II approached, Mr. Fairbanks, an Anglophile, generated controversy as an outspoken opponent of the America First isolationists and as a fervent backer of a third term for President Franklin D. Roosevelt. In early 1941, amid concern that the Axis powers were subverting governments in Latin America, the president sent him on an 11-week good-will and intelligence mission to Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Chile and Peru.
        Throughout the war he served in the United States Navy in the Atlantic and Mediterranean, rising from lieutenant (junior grade) to commander and, after the war, to captain. His decorations included the Silver Star, the British Distinguished Service Cross and the French Legion of Honor.
        He became the first American officer to command a British flotilla of raiding craft during a commando operation in World War II. He served under Adm. Lord Louis Mountbatten, who later introduced him to his nephew, Prince Philip, the husband of Queen Elizabeth II.
        Mr. Fairbanks and his wife, Mary Lee, maintained a home in London, where they became close friends of the royal family and of government, social and cultural leaders. ''I prefer,'' he said in 1988, ''being a fly on the wall in the corridors of power.''
        He repeatedly lent his prestige and administrative skills as a volunteer for the United Nations and many organizations and projects aiding refugees and other war victims. His contributions won him many honors, including Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire.
        Mr. Fairbanks appeared in only a half dozen movies after the war -- ''Sinbad the Sailor'' (1947), ''The Exile'' (1947), ''That Lady in Ermine'' (1948), ''The Fighting O'Flynn'' (1949), ''State Secret'' (1950), ''Mr.  Drake's Duck'' (1951) and, after a three-decade hiatus, ''Ghost Story'' (1981). He produced and was a co-writer of several of those films and was also the executive producer and host of a popular 1950's television anthology show, ''Douglas Fairbanks Presents,'' filmed in Britain. He starred in about a quarter of the 117 half-hour episodes.
        Douglas Elton Fairbanks Jr. was born in Manhattan on Dec. 9, 1909, the only child of Douglas Fairbanks and the former Anna Beth Sully. His parents were divorced when he was 9, and he lived with his mother. During the next decade he saw his father only occasionally, remarking in his 1988 autobiography, ''The Salad Days,'' that in his youth his father showed him ''no real affection.'' But in the early 1930's they became close friends.
        The young Fairbanks attended a string of expensive private schools, most of them Episcopal, many of them military, in Manhattan and the Los Angeles area, and he had private tutors for two years while living in Paris and London. He said his father had given his mother $500,000 in a divorce settlement, and she spent nearly all of it within five years.
        Jesse L. Lasky, seeking to exploit the Fairbanks name, sponsored the son's acting debut at the age of 13, in the movie ''Stephen Steps Out.'' The 1923 film failed, and young Douglas had to struggle to earn a living, partly by writing silent-film titles, partly  by acting and doubling as a cameraman and prop mover, partly by appearing occasionally on the Los Angeles stage in plays like ''Young Woodley'' and ''Saturday's Children.''
        While he was a teenager money was a continuous problem. From the ages of 13 to 20, he wrote in his memoir, he was the main breadwinner for 6 to 13 people, most of them in his mother's family. His maternal grandfather, Daniel J. Sully, had been a cotton financier but went bankrupt.
        Eventually the young actor became a frequent guest at Pickfair, the Hollywood estate owned by his father and his wife Mary Pickford, where the young Fairbanks began to mingle with many prominent and soon-to-be prominent cultural and political figures. He became a celebrity in his own right with his 1929 marriage to Joan Crawford. Their separation and 1933 divorce gained even more publicity than their courtship and marriage.
        In 1939 Mr. Fairbanks married Mary Lee Epling Hartford, a former wife of the sportsman Huntington Hartford. The couple had three daughters: Daphne, Victoria and Melissa. They had homes in Palm Beach, Fla., and Manhattan as well as in London. Mary Fairbanks died in 1988, and Mr. Fairbanks married Vera Shelton in 1991. She, his three daughters, eight grandchildren and six great-grandchildren survive.
        By the early 1950's Mr. Fairbanks decided he preferred producing to acting. ''Knight Errant,'' a 1955 biography by Brian Connell, quoted him on the frustrations of acting: ''I began to be embarrassed that the interpretation was really someone else's creation. Realizing my own limitations, I became aware that I could never be a creative actor. I would only be an interpretative one or an imitator.''
        In later years he was also a chairman, director or consultant on the boards of a wide range of companies, and kept offices in New York and London. He also acted occasionally -- in tours of plays like ''My Fair Lady'' and ''The Pleasure of His Company'' -- but his proudest achievements were articles he wrote for magazines like Esquire, Vanity Fair and McCall's. ''It is more satisfying to be creative than to be a player,'' he said.
      