
        Ross F. Littell, a furniture and textile designer, died on April 17 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 75.
        The cause was a brain tumor, his sister, Janice Currey, of Malibu, Calif., said last week.
        Mr. Littell's characteristic designs were practical, purposeful and fun. ''The New Furniture'' collection, with its combination of angularity and luxury, Belgian marble, shiny chrome and woven white leather straps that he designed with William Katavolos and Douglas Kelley for the Laverne Company in 1952, is now considered an important collectible from the period. The sling-leather and chrome-frame T-Chair from that series is in the permanent design collection at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
        Ross Franklin Littell was born on July 14, 1924, in Los Angeles. After military service, he received a degree in industrial design from Pratt Institute in New York. In 1949, when he was 25, he won an award from the American Institute of Decorators for a low coffee table on tubular steel legs with a top made of birch dowls strung together inside a gumwood frame with handles. The judges praised the table especially for its affordability -- its price tag was $19.
        Mr. Littell's work quickly attracted the attention of such prominent manufacturers as Knoll and Herman Miller, for whom he worked extensively in the 1950's and 60's. He moved to Copenhagen in 1960 and then to Italy, where he also worked on textile and furniture designs for prominent European manufacturers, among them Unika Vaev in Denmark and DePadova in Italy.
        Exploring his fascination with geometry, nature and motion, he experimented with making large-scale incised metal wall hangings that he called luminars. He also developed innovative fabric patterns based on the play of arithmetical combinations and a sense of rhythmic movement.
        Mr. Littell continued to present new furniture and textile designs while expanding his interests to designing art, carpets and tiles for corporate settings. Le Musee des Arts Decoratifs in Montreal included his textile work in the exhibition ''Design: What Modern Was, 1935-65'' in 1991 at the I.B.M. Gallery in New York.
        Mr. Littell moved to Santa Barbara in 1995. His marriage to Inger Klingenberg, an interior designer with whom he also collaborated, ended in divorce. In addition to his sister, he is survived by a son, David, of Darien, Conn; two daughters, Louisa, of Denmark and Hai-ja, of Italy; and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 12, 2000, Friday  A picture caption on Monday with an obituary of the furniture designer Ross Littell misidentified a chair he designed with William Katavalos and David Kelley. It is the T-chair (Laverne Company, 1952), not the Criss Cross chair (Knoll, 1959).
        The obituary also omitted the identities of Mr. Littell's co-designers for a coffee table made with birch dowels; they were Mr. Katavolos and Mr. Kelley.
      