
        Dr. Seymour Sudman, a University of Illinois professor whose books taught pollsters and marketing experts how to phrase questions to get accurate answers, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Chicago. He was 71 and lived in Champaign, Ill.
        The cause was complications from a stroke he had suffered last month in Washington, where he was attending a meeting of the American Statistical Association, the university said.
        Dr. Sudman was a professor of marketing, sociology and survey research. He had been on the Illinois faculty since 1968, and had planned to retire this summer.
        A consummate semanticist, Dr. Sudman was fascinated by the way the outcome of a questionnaire could be tainted by the choice of a single word.
        Consequently, he contended that public opinion polls, particularly those done early on in political campaigns, ''are more a reflection of name recognition than of voting behavior.''
        He cautioned that the emergence of the Internet created new hazards for survey researchers because only part of the population could be reached over it. Those without access to the Internet must still be reached ''by mail, telephone or other old-fashioned means,'' he said.
        A similar situation led to a major embarrassment for pollsters in 1936 when a survey by The Literary Digest, then a prominent periodical, predicted that the Republican nominee, Gov. Alfred M. Landon of Kansas, would defeat President Franklin D. Roosevelt by a landslide.
        But the survey that prompted that prediction had unduly relied on the telephone, which many households did not yet have. It was Roosevelt who won by a landslide, carrying all but two states. Only Maine and Vermont went to Landon.
        Dr. Sudman was an expert in survey sampling and the design of survey questionnaires. He wrote scores of articles on the subject, and was the author or co-author of nearly 20 books.
        Some are classic textbooks for students and lay readers trying to grapple with statistics and survey writing. Among them are ''Applied Sampling'' (1976), ''Asking Questions: A Practical Guide to Questionnaire Design'' (1982) and ''Polls and Surveys'' (1988).
        Most recently, Dr. Sudman studied the reasons that people answer survey questions the way they do. The result was ''Thinking About Answers: Application of Cognitive Processes to Survey Methodology'' (1995), with two co-authors, Norman Bradburn and Norbert Schwarz.
        Dr. Sudman, who was born in Chicago, received a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Roosevelt University in Chicago in 1962 and a doctorate in business from the University of Chicago in 1968.
        He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Blanche Berland Sudman; a son, Harold, of Chicago; two daughters, Emily Hindin of Columbus, Ohio, and Carol Sudman of Springfield, Ill.; a sister, Annette Baich of Edwardsville, Ill., and two grandchildren.
      