
        Henry Laskau, who walked out of Hitler's Germany and became America's best race walker for a decade after World War II, died Sunday in Coconut Creek, Fla. He was 83.
        His wife, Hilde, told The Associated Press that Laskau had suffered from Alzheimer's disease.
        Helmut Laskau, who later became known as Henry, was born Sept. 12, 1916, in Berlin. Although he was one of Germany's best 1,500-meter and 5,000-meter runners, he, like other German Jews, was repeatedly passed by for international teams. In 1938, he was sent to a German labor camp, the holding ground for Jews before being sent to the death camps.
        After about three months, with the help of a sympathetic guard, Laskau left the camp one night and made his way to France, where he boarded a ship to Cuba. Nine months later, he was in the United States.
        During the war, Laskau did counterintelligence work overseas for the Army, serving as an interrogator of SS officers. He later learned that most of his family had died in concentration camps.
        In the fall of 1946, after his Army discharge, he decided to resume his running career. One Sunday morning, he went to Macombs Dam Park, next to Yankee Stadium, to work out. The only other person there was Nat Jaeger, a race walker, who suggested that Laskau switch from running to walking.
        He did, and a month later, at 5 feet 8 inches and 138 pounds, he was competing in this difficult heel-and-toe discipline. The next summer, he won a national championship, and for a decade he did not lose to another American.
        From 1947 through 1957, competing for the Maccabi Athletic Club and the 92nd Street Y.M.H.A., he won 42 national titles from a mile to 25 kilometers (15.5 miles). He won the Amateur Athletic Union's national 10-kilometer title 11 consecutive years outdoors and the mile title 10 consecutive years indoors. He won four Maccabiah Games titles, the last in 1965 at age 49 when he came out of an eight-year retirement for the race.
        He was so good that even track officials did not always believe his performances. In a 1952 fund-raising meet at odd distances at Randalls Island in New York, Wes Santee won the three-quarter-mile run and Laskau the half-mile walk, each in  2 minutes 58.2 seconds. Laskau's time broke a 75-year-old record, but recognition was delayed because a member of the records committee argued that it was ''physically impossible'' to walk that fast.
        Laskau's greatest heartbreak in the sport came in 1948 in London in the first of his three Olympics when a judge at the finish line told him had been disqualified. The United States Olympic Committee listed the result that way.
        ''I lived with it for 36 years,'' Laskau said, ''and it bothered me. I took it as a black mark against myself.''
        In 1984, Laskau received a ''Dear Friend'' letter from Palle Lassen of Denmark, an internationally recognized statistician of the sport. Lassen said he had researched the race and determined that Laskau had finished seventh and had never been disqualified. A relieved Laskau called it ''my vindication.''
        He was named to the USA/Mobil team as the best indoor walker ever. He was often nominated but not elected to the United States Track and Field Hall of Fame until 1997, largely because of a built-in prejudice against race walking as a stepchild of the sport.
        After retiring from competition, he traveled the nation as a volunteer official and race judge.
        In 1980, he retired from his freight-forwarding business and moved to the Miami area, where he sometimes supervised freight operations for El Al Israel Airlines.
        Even in retirement, he took long walks every day, and his enthusiasm led to what is now the annual Henry Laskau Race Walk in Coconut Creek.
        ''He slowed down a little in the last few years,'' Roy Chernock, a retired track coach and close friend, said in an interview before Laskau's death, ''but he still walks faster than you and I could ever do.''
        Laskau is survived by his wife; two sons, Michael of New York and Howard of Raleigh, N.C.; and two grandchildren.
      