
        Sabri Tahir, a colorful Turkish Cypriot businessman who was renowned for his friendship with the novelist Lawrence Durrell, was shot dead on Monday afternoon in Cyprus. He was 76.
        News reports said a man shot Mr. Tahir several times in his office at a hotel that he owned in Lefkosa, the main town in northern Cyprus.
        Later, a former bodyguard for Mr. Tahir reportedly surrendered to the police and confessed to the crime.
        Mr. Tahir reportedly spent much of his life at the edge of the law, and this was not his first encounter with violence.
        His only son was stabbed to death in 1981, and he survived a car bomb attack in 1990, and in 1996 a rival shot him in the leg. He had used a wheelchair since then.
        For most of his life, Mr. Tahir was one of the best-known figures in northern Cyprus, a modern version of the pirates and other scoundrels who have played important roles in the island's long history.
        In the 1970's, he was mayor of his hometown, Girne, a picturesque and historic port. Later, he became a hotel owner and tour agency operator. He was said to have been in other businesses, as well, not all of them legal.
        In ''Bitter Lemons of Cyprus,'' Durrell described looking for a real estate broker and being sent to ''Sabri the Turk'' in Girne, then known as Kyrenia. The friend who gave him the advice warned that Mr. Tahir was a rogue and ''spread his arms to try to indicate the full extent of Sabri's roguery.''
        ''Sabri Tahir's office in the Turkish quarter of Kyrenia bore a sun-blistered legend describing him as a valuer and real estate agent, but his activities had proliferated since the board was painted, and he was clearly many things besides,'' Durrell wrote. ''The man himself was perhaps 40 years of age, sturdily built, and with a fine head on his shoulders. He had the sleepy good looks -- a rare smile with perfect teeth, thoughtful brown eyes -- which one sees sometimes on Turkish travel posters. But what was truly Turkish about him was the repose with which he confronted the world.
        ''I have seen Sabri loading logs, shouting at peasants, even running down a street; but never has he conveyed the slightest feeling of energy being expended. His actions and words had the smoothness of inevitability; they flowed from him like honey from a spoon.
        ''He was obviously endowed with that wonderful Moslem quality which is called kayf -- the contemplation which comes of silence and ease. It is not meditation or reverie, which presupposes a conscious mind relaxing; it is something deeper, a fathomless repose of the will which does not even pose to itself the question: 'Am I happy or unhappy?' ''
        Mr. Tahir, who sometimes used the last name Girneli, meaning from Girne, was born there on Oct. 27, 1923. Surviving are a sister and a son-in-law. His daughter died last year.
        In ''Bitter Lemons,'' Durrell devoted a chapter to Mr. Tahir's mastery of the art of bargaining, as shown by how he negotiated to buy a house that Durrell wanted.
        Mr. Tahir waited craftily for the right moment to approach the owner, shed tears of disbelief when he heard the first asking price and finally closed the deal by offering to pay in ''notes -- thick notes, as thick as honeycomb, as thick as salami.''
      