
        William Francis Gallagher, a retired president of the American Foundation for the Blind, died on April 19 at his home in Webster, Mass., south of Worcester. He was 77 and had long been ill, said the foundation, based in Manhattan, where Mr. Gallagher formerly lived on the Upper East Side.
        Mr. Gallagher, who lost his own sight in boyhood, joined the staff of the foundation in 1972 as director of program planning and as such oversaw policies carried out by regional branches stretching from New York to San Francisco and advised on matters like fund-raising, public relations and research objectives.
        He was named associate director for advocacy in 1978, managing field services, government relations, publications, conferences, workshops and training sessions. He advanced to executive director in 1980, added the title of president in 1989 and retired the next year.
        The foundation, which in addition to serving the blind preserves the archives of Helen Keller, the organization's principal fund-raiser and adviser into the 1950's, credits Mr. Gallagher with having kept staff and trustees abreast of the needs of the blind by establishing national advisory boards of leaders in education, rehabilitation and aging. It says he also helped improve standards for the accreditation of specialized schools and agencies that offer services to the 10 million Americans who are blind or have limited sight.
        William Gallagher was born in Maynard, Mass., near Boston, and graduated from the Perkins School for the Blind in Watertown, Mass., where he was president of the student council, president of the athletic association, captain of the wrestling team and a member of the debating society. He graduated from Holy Cross College with a degree in sociology in 1948 and received a master's in social work at Boston College in 1950.
        He started 40 years of service to the blind that year as a children's social worker for the City of Boston and for the Catholic Guild for All the Blind in Newton, Mass. He then worked at rehabilitation centers in Newton and in Bridgeville, Pa., and in 1965 was named director of rehabilitation services for the New York Association for the Blind.
        He remained in that position until recruited by the American Foundation for the Blind in 1972.
        Mr. Gallagher is survived by a sister, Mary Langan, of Clifton Park, N.Y. His wife, Catherine O'Brien Gallagher, died in 1990.
      