
        Cornelius Adolphus Scott, editor and publisher of The Atlanta Daily World from 1934 until 1997 and a strong voice for the interests of its black readers, died on Sunday at an Atlanta hospital. He was 92.
        Widely known as C. A. Scott, he became head of The World, a family business, on the death of his brother William Alexander Scott II, who had founded The World in 1928 as a monthly.
        C. A. Scott was succeeded as chief by M. Alexis Scott, granddaughter of W. A. Scott II, as he was known.
        Among the newspaper's goals, as Mr. Scott recalled in 1978, was ''to give constructive and inspiring news'' to blacks. Under him, The World spoke in favor of voting rights for blacks and racial integration of schools and businesses. His daughter, Portia A. Scott, a former editor of The World, recalled in an interview yesterday that her father's outspoken pro-civil-rights views did not lead to any violence against him, although she said there might have been threats in letters.
        Mr. Scott was chairman of the Public Affairs Committee of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People for a time.
        By the mid-1930's about 50 newspapers had been founded in a family of Scott-owned papers. But by 1970 all had closed except The World and one in Birmingham, Ala., which the family later sold.
        After the victories of the civil rights movement in the 1960's, many older black newspapers suffered sharp declines in circulation. The World's circulation fell to 16,500 by the mid-1980's from 22,000 in the early 1960's. The World, which became a daily in 1932, is now published twice a week, on Sunday and Thursday. Its circulation is 10,000, about the same as when Mr. Scott retired.
        Cornelius Adolphus Scott was born in Edwards, Miss., and studied at Morehouse College in Atlanta and elsewhere.
        His daughter, Miss Scott, said that in 1952 her father switched from supporting the Democratic Party to backing the Republican Party. He saw the necessity of having both parties' running candidates in the South, she said, and he resented that the history of the Democratic Party in the South had been anti-black.
        His wife, Ruth, died in 1996.
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in Atlanta, survivors include a sister, Ruth Scott Simmons of Atlanta; four grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      