
        Gus Fleming, the director of concert halls at Lincoln Center since 1988, and before that the company manager of the Lincoln Center Out-of-Doors Festival and a line producer of the JVC Jazz Festival, died last Saturday at his home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 56.
        Eileen McMahon, a spokeswoman for Lincoln Center, said the cause was cancer.
        As director of concert halls, Mr. Fleming oversaw the day-to-day operation of Avery Fisher Hall and Alice Tully Hall and was involved in everything from the installation of new production technology to marketing and box-office systems.
        Mr. Fleming, whose full name was John Payne Fleming, was born in Chicago in July 1943. Both of his parents, John A. Fleming and Helen Payne Fleming, were physicians, and his father was also an alternate to Jesse Owens at the 1939 Olympics. He received a bachelor's degree in history from the University of Rochester and a Master of Fine Arts from New York University.
        He was drawn to the arts first as an actor, and performed in several Broadway and Off Broadway productions, including ''No Place to Be Somebody,'' ''Jimmy Shine'' and ''Operation Sidewinder.'' He also had roles in several films, including ''Serpico.'' From 1977 to 1983 Mr. Fleming was an adjunct professor of speech and theater at John Jay College in Manhattan. During his years at the college, he developed a program that took theater to the inmates at Rikers Island. He also produced an Off Broadway play, Dennis McIntyre's ''Split Second.''
        Mr. Fleming was also involved in several musical projects. As a performer, he played bass and sang in the Wickers Creek Bluegrass Band. And he was a producer of the Grande Parade du Jazz in Nice, France.
        He joined Lincoln Center as the company manager for its free, multidisciplinary Out-of-Doors Festival. Among the events he produced were a Folk Heritage Day and a Blues and Gospel Day. In 1984 he and Coleman Barkin started the Roots of American Music Festival.
        He is survived by his wife, Kimberlee Kimes; three sons, John Nicholas, Joshua and Samuel; a daughter, Helene Elizabeth; a stepmother, Clara Fleming of Chicago; and a sister, Dorothy Ohlendorf of Gales Ferry, Conn.
      