
        Leon Radzinowicz, a scholar of criminology who played a major role in the development of the field, died on Dec. 29 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 93.
        For most of his career, Mr. Radzinowicz, who was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in 1970, taught law at Cambridge University, where he also founded the Institute of Criminology in 1959; he retired in 1973 after serving as its first director.
        Mr. Radzinowicz was born into an affluent family in Lodz, Poland. He was educated at several universities in Europe, and, after teaching himself Italian, he earned a law degree at the Law School and Institute of Criminology in Rome at age 22.
        He then earned a doctorate from the University of Cracow and later did postdoctoral work in Belgium. He went to England in 1938 on behalf of the Polish Ministry of Justice to study the English penal system.
        When World War II began, he stayed in England and joined Cambridge's faculty, helping establish a department of criminal science in 1941. The department largely attracts students pursuing academic careers in the social sciences.
        In his long career, Sir Leon's philosophical view of crime evolved from Italian positivism, which emphasized psychological and sociological explanations of criminals and crime, to English pragmatism, emphasizing the social and political context, said Roger G. Hood, a former student of Sir Leon's who became a professor of criminology and a colleague at Cambridge.
        Sir Leon was an opponent of the death penalty and later of open-ended sentences, like 20 years to life. He believed, Mr. Hood said, that these punishments gave too much power to the authorities and could be abused.
        He opposed the privatization of prisons, too. ''He thought that if it was the state that punished, then the state should carry out the punishment,'' Mr. Hood said. ''He was also concerned that an incentive and profit for punishment would undermine the rule of law.''
        He was also a critic of the American justice system, at least in recent years. ''He felt that it had turned its back on a reformist agenda and was becoming repressive -- with the enormous prison population and the standards of the jails,'' Mr. Hood said.
        Sir Leon wrote many books, including ''Ideology and Crime,'' ''In Search of Criminology'' and, with Mr. Hood, the five-volume ''History of the English Criminal Law and Its Administration.'' His latest book, ''Adventures in Criminology,'' was published by Routledge of London in 1998.
        He served as a consultant to several nations and, in the United States, to President Lyndon Johnson's Commission on Violence. He was also a visiting lecturer at scores of universities, including Columbia, Yale and the University of Virginia.
        He is survived by his wife, Isolde; a daughter, Ann Stacey Prior of Nutbourne, West Sussex, England; a son, William H. F. Radzinowicz of London; and three grandchildren.
      