
        Charles F. Banfe Jr., a former airline pilot and Stanford University professor who twice flew small planes alone around the world, died on March 17 in Tucson. The cause was pneumonia. He was 82 and lived in Tucson.
        Mr. Banfe (pronounced BAN-fee) was on leave from Pan American World Airways when he first circled the globe in 1958, at a time when such solo flights were far riskier than they are with today's navigational equipment. He flew a Mooney Mark 20A, a low-wing, single-seater monoplane.
        The 22,000-mile flight was supposed to take eight days. It ended up taking 50 days and was riddled with mishaps -- 14 forced landings, one of them in a grape arbor in Corsica -- because of mechanical failures and bad weather.
        Mr. Banfe flew in his stocking feet because it gave him a ''more sensitive feel,'' his wife, June, remembered.
        In 1960, he made his second flight around the world, to celebrate Hawaiian statehood. His circumnavigation in a twin-engine Beechcraft Bonanza was completed in eight days.
        Solo flights like Mr. Banfe's were  more common in the 1920's and 1930's, when aviation was still in its infancy. Yet even at the dawn of the space age, such flights around the world involved substantial risks.
        ''The ability to navigate was kind of limited,'' said Lee Person, a retired NASA research pilot. ''Today you can get a little G.P.S. that you can hold in your hand that knows its way around the world. He had some long areas to cross without more to aid him than a compass and a prayer.'' (G.P.S., or global positioning system, is the satellite-surveillance network that instantly feeds exact coordinates to sailors and fliers.)
        Over the course of his career, Mr. Banfe flew aircraft ranging from the ungainly ''flying boats'' to Boeing 747's. His wife recalled that in the early 1970's, Charles Lindbergh was a passenger, and Mr. Banfe invited him into the cockpit to co-pilot the jet briefly.
        ''Lindbergh was quite old, and Chuck kept his knee on the yoke to keep the plane steady,'' Mrs. Banfe said. ''He did it inconspicuously, so as not to embarrass Lindbergh.''
        Charles Frank Banfe Jr. was born Aug. 23, 1917, in Chicago. His father was a barber, his mother, Mary, a housewife. Mr. Banfe graduated from the University of Chicago in 1940, with a degree in English, and joined the editorial staff of Esquire magazine.
        ''He always loved flying; he wanted to be another Saint-Exupery,'' Mrs. Banfe said, referring to the French author and aviator. She said he learned to fly in the 1930's by taking lessons from barnstormers.
        Before the United States entered World War II, Mr. Banfe joined the Royal Canadian Air Force, where he learned to fly twin-engine bombers. In 1942, he joined American Overseas Airlines, which was later bought by Pan Am, and after the war flew missions for the Berlin airlift, Mrs. Banfe said.
        Mr. Banfe was a pilot with Pan American for 37 years, and taught business, technology and airline management at Stanford University business school for 20 years.
        He is survived by his wife; their five children, Charles Banfe III of Honolulu, Nicholas Banfe of Kailua-Kona, Hawaii, Peter Banfe of Columbus, Ohio, Susan Prince of Portland, Ore., and Juli Banfe of San Francisco; and six grandchildren.
      