
        Keizo Obuchi, a bland, self-effacing politician who as Japan's prime minister brought some stability to the country's faltering economy and fractious politics, died this afternoon in Tokyo.
        He was 62 and had been relieved of his duties as prime minister after suffering a stroke in early April.
        Mr. Obuchi died here in Juntendo University Hospital, where he had been hospitalized in a coma since last month, the prime minister's office said. Doctors said he died from complications of the stroke.
        News reports earlier in the day said that Mr. Obuchi's blood pressure had dropped to a near-critical level and that he was becoming unresponsive to medication to stimulate circulation.
        Because many Japanese considered him to be pedestrian and lacking in charisma, Mr. Obuchi was the least popular choice for prime minister when he was selected in 1998 by the Liberal Democratic Party, which has governed Japan for most of the period since World War II.
        Although he had served as foreign minister and chief cabinet secretary, Mr. Obuchi was considered too cautious to pursue the far-reaching reforms needed to resolve Japan's worst financial crisis in decades. The country's banking system was collapsing, unemployment was rising and the public pension fund was running dry. Critics predicted that Mr. Obuchi would not last more than a few months.
        But his quiet, unassertive manner belied his political skillfulness and daring, and he quickly reversed longtime policy and pushed a huge spending package and a number of other economic measures through Parliament that temporarily halted Japan's economic slide, though at a heavy cost to taxpayers.
        Although the results of Mr. Obuchi's policies were mixed, the economy showed some signs of improvement and his popularity soared, reaching a 51 percent approval rating last summer.
        But support for his government waned considerably in the months before his stroke following his decision to forge an alliance with opposition parties and a string of corruption scandals.
        Thomas S. Foley, the United States ambassador to Japan, said that Mr. Obuchi's record in office refuted critics who had dismissed him as a lightweight and that Mr. Obuchi would rank high among postwar Japanese prime ministers.
        ''When he became prime minister I was shocked that he was received with such low expectations and publicly dismissive comments by people who suggested he would be a short term or transitional prime minister,'' Mr. Foley said. ''He confounded everyone's estimate.''
        John F. Neuffer, a noted analyst of Japanese politics, had described Mr. Obuchi as having ''all the pizazz of a cold pizza,'' -- a characterization that  haunted him throughout his tenure.  But Mr. Neuffer maintained that his statement had been widely misunderstood.
        ''Cold pizza was a comment on his leadership style, but in Japan you don't have to be an especially tantalizing political leader to get things done, and Obuchi proved that,'' Mr. Neuffer said. ''In many ways he was the right man for the job and far more clever than the mainstream media gave him credit for being.''
        Mr. Obuchi became prime minister after a frenzied race within the Liberal Democratic Party to replace his predecessor, Ryutaro Hashimoto, who had been forced to resign after an upset in the upper house elections in 1998. Critics said Mr. Hashimoto's tenure was marked by an insufficient effort to turn around a failing economy.
        Mr. Obuchi, Japan's 23rd prime minister since World War II, was by all accounts a shrewd tactician, skilled in the back-room negotiations and consensus-building that are the hallmark of Japanese politics.
        But former Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone once referred to Mr.  Obuchi as ''a vacuum prime minister,'' contending that he had no valuable policies or principles of his own but simply absorbed the ideas of the talented ministers and advisers that he kept around him.
        ''Emptiness helps me avoid confrontation with others,'' Mr. Obuchi said in an interview last year. ''It also allows me to absorb whatever available ideas seem good. I am affable to everyone.''
        Mr. Obuchi turned his low-key style into a genuine asset, and the Japanese people were enamored with his humility and the stability he imposed on politics.
        ''He restored people's confidence in leadership,'' said Yukio Okamoto, a political consultant. ''He did not appear to be smart, and he deliberately tried not to convey an air of intelligence. He pretended to be a commoner and this was his unique way of disarming people of their criticism of politicians.''
        While Mr. Obuchi gained legislative approval for a $400 billion pump-priming stimulus plan and a bank recapitalization program that were popular with the public, some of his critics feared that his pork barrel politics would undercut these efforts. Tough reforms on health care, corporate taxation and other areas have been stalled or weakened while the national debt is ballooning.
        Mr. Obuchi honed his political skills by sparring with some of Japan's heavyweights. Early in his career, he competed for votes in the same district as two former prime ministers, Mr. Nakasone and Takeo Fukuda, under a multiseat constituency system that was recently abandoned.
        Reflecting on those years, Mr. Obuchi often described himself as ''a noodle shop sandwiched between two skyscrapers'' -- the rival prime ministers. But it was in this grass-roots environment that Mr. Obuchi mastered the art of the Japanese political deal, especially in cultivating personal relationships.
        When he became prime minister, Mr. Obuchi never abandoned the tactics that served him well at the local level. For example, he was said to make as many as 50 ''courtesy'' telephone calls a day, often to people he did not even know. This practice proved effective in establishing Mr. Obuchi as a man of the people.
        While traveling in the United States last year, Shinichi Kitaoka, a history professor at Tokyo University, returned to his room to find a message from the prime minister on his answering machine. ''I had no connections with him, but he just called to say hello and to thank me for writing and doing research on him,'' Mr. Kitaoka said. ''Yes, it was calculated but it certainly made me feel like he cared.''
        Perhaps Mr. Obuchi's most notable political coup came last August when he assembled the largest governing coalition that Japan had seen in decades and began pushing through Parliament a variety of measures long stalled in the political gridlock of past administrations. The measures included the adoption of the Japanese flag and imperial anthem as official national symbols and laws to crack down on terrorist groups like Aum Shinrikyo.
        Keizo Obuchi was born on June 25, 1937, into a middle-class family in the town of Nakanojo in the mountainous Gumma Prefecture. His father, Kohei, managed a silk mill and was elected to Parliament. Mr. Obuchi's older brother is the mayor of Nakanojo.
        A graduate of the prestigious Waseda University in Tokyo, Mr. Obuchi vowed to pursue a political career after the death of his father. He was elected to the lower house in 1963 at age 26, the youngest Japanese ever to win a seat in Parliament. He was elected to that seat, previously held by his father, for 38 years.
        He held a number of ministry and cabinet positions before being named chief cabinet secretary for his political mentor, former Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita, in 1987 and minister of foreign affairs in 1997.
        Mr. Obuchi is survived by his wife, Chizuko; two daughters, Akiko and Yuko; and a son, Takeshi, all of Tokyo.
        At the height of Mr. Obuchi's popularity last year, Beat Takeshi, a popular comedian, picked up on Mr. Obuchi's own references and said that instead of cold pizza, Mr. Obuchi was more like the low-cost noodles that are sold at public beach houses in summer. The noodles are generally regarded as bland but after a long day of swimming and frolicking at the beach, many Japanese find that they taste pretty good.
      