
        Gil Fates, an executive producer of some of the leading television game and panel shows of the 1950's and 60's, died on May 1 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Greenwich, Conn.
        In more than 35 years with Goodson-Todman Productions, Mr. Fates helped to create programs like ''Beat the Clock,'' ''Winner Take All,'' ''To Tell the Truth,'' ''I've Got a Secret'' and ''What's My Line?,'' which he produced for its entire 25-year run.
        Born in Newark, he graduated from the University of Virginia, where he was active in the Virginia Players drama society. He began his career as an actor, appearing in the road company of ''Stage Door'' and on Broadway in the George S. Kaufman-Moss Hart spectacular ''The American Way.'' He was also stage manager for the touring company of ''The Man Who Came to Dinner'' with Alexander Woollcott.
        After three years Mr. Fates left the theater for the fledgling television department at CBS. He produced and served as host of the first regularly scheduled game show, ''The CBS Television Quiz,'' which began on July 2, 1941, and was broadcast from a loft above the main waiting room of Grand Central Terminal.
        During World War II Mr. Fates served in the United States Coast Guard and was commanding officer of a rescue cutter in the English Channel during the allied invasion at Normandy.
        After rejoining CBS in 1946, in what he called ''the halcyon days of the 8- and 10-inch screen,'' he wore many hats: overseeing animal, cooking and art shows; covering elections; providing commentary for sports events; and presiding over game shows, including ''What's It Worth?''
        He left CBS in 1950 to produce ''The Faye Emerson Show'' and joined Goodson-Todman in 1953. In 1978 he compiled stories of his encounters with celebrities and contestants in a book, ''What's My Line? The History of America's Most Famous Panel Show.''
        Mr. Fates also supervised the production of foreign-language versions of ''Family Feud,'' ''Card Sharks,'' ''Password,'' ''The Match Game'' and other shows. Most recently he had gone on the road again, regaling audiences at clubs and on cruise ships with anecdotes based on his experience in broadcasting.
        He is survived by his wife, Faye; a son, Dailey Gilbert of Santa Barbara, Calif.; and two daughters, Amy, of Santa Monica, Calif., and Decia, of Greenport, N.Y.
      