
        Harry J. Volk, a finance executive whose impact was felt as much in the world of philanthropy as in business, died at his Los Angeles home on Friday, according to his son Robert. He was 94.
        During a financial career that spanned more than three decades, he showed little patience for the idea that the status quo was right just because it was the status quo.
        As a vice president of the Prudential Insurance Company of America in the mid-1940's, for example, he helped mastermind the company's huge decentralization program. The revamping took him to Los Angeles in 1947, where he opened Prudential's first regional home office. While he was there, he also introduced the concept of family life insurance plans.
        Later, as chairman of the Union Bank of California -- a job he was recruited from Prudential to fill in 1957 -- he helped bring about new offerings like daily compounding of interest and banking by mail, which were radical for the time. It was Mr. Volk who spotted the loophole in federal laws that made it possible for banks to form holding companies, and in 1967 he established the country's first one-bank holding company, Union Bancorp Inc.
        While other banks were trying to broaden their customer base, Mr. Volk successfully steered Union through the recession of the 1970's by keeping it focused on lending to small and medium-size businesses. And, at a time when bankers generally considered marketing beneath them, Mr. Volk marketed Union aggressively to those target customers.
        It was a lesson that many of his employees spread to other banks. ''Most bankers had the idea, you sit there and customers come in and you sort of judge them,'' Carl E. Reichardt, a former Union Bank executive who was chairman of Wells Fargo from 1983 through 1994, said in 1989. ''Harry said that was all wrong -- that you had to go out and drag them in.''
        Not all of Mr. Volk's innovations served Union well. He took Union into insurance and mortgage banking, only to have California regulators insist that it pull out of those enterprises in 1975. The bank never quite regained its vibrant growth. Many of its higher-level executives departed, and many of the bank's business customers followed them to their new employers. Union Bank was taken over by Standard Chartered Bank Ltd. of London in 1979. Mr. Volk retired a year later.
        Mr. Volk never confined his taste for innovation and activism to the financial world. If it had anything to do with California, it interested him. He was an active board member of several California companies, including Western Air Lines, Southern California Gas and Times Mirror. He was also a trustee of the California Institute of Technology, a board member of the Los Angeles branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and president of the Los Angeles Clearing House Association.
        He also plunged into the Los Angeles philanthropic world. He headed a committee that looked into disputes between the United Way and some of its recipient charities. Soon after, he created a system that allowed employers to funnel payroll deductions to charities designated by individual employees. The system is now widely used, and, by giving donors more of a say in where their contributions went, was a linchpin of the United Way's revamped methods for collecting and distributing money.
        Mr. Volk was a prime mover in rebuilding Los Angeles's historic Bunker Hill. And he helped found many cultural institutions, including the Music Center (now the Performing Arts Center of Los Angeles County) and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. While still at Union Bank, he was a board member of the Southern California Symphony Association and the Boys Club Foundation.
        After he retired from the bank in 1980 he became head of the Weingart Foundation, a California charitable organization with $155 million in assets. By the time Mr. Volk retired from the foundation in 1993, its assets had plumped up to more than $500 million.
        In 1987, when Union Bank became one of the first banks in the country to offer child care as an employee benefit, it named its day care center the Volk Center.
        Mr. Volk's love of all things Californian notwithstanding, he hailed from the opposite coast. He was born in Trenton, and earned degrees in business and law from Rutgers University.
        Mr. Volk's first wife, Marion, whom he married in 1931, died in 1972. He is survived by his second wife, the actress Marjorie Lord; two sons from his first marriage, Robert, of Los Angeles, and Richard, of San Francisco; 2 stepchildren; 9 grandchildren; and 12 great-grandchildren.
      