
        Poul Hartling, a former prime minister of Denmark who headed the office of the United Nations high commissioner for refugees when the agency won the 1981 Nobel Peace Prize, died on Sunday. He was 85.
        Mr. Hartling was a shrewd, paternal and politically gifted administrator, not blessed with an immense budget, who spent $500 million in 1980 on the refugee office's work. He was successful enough in staying on equable terms with Thailand and the Communist government installed in Pnom Penh by Vietnam so that 310,000 Cambodians could return home that year.
        He was also astute at rallying other agencies to share the burden. In 1981, no fewer than 200 private agencies helped.
        When he learned that his organization had been awarded the Nobel, for aiding the growing numbers of homeless and displaced people around the world, he issued a statement, from his headquarters in Geneva that accepted the award ''in the name of refugees everywhere.''
        He said the $180,000 in prize money would be added to other money to help refugees and displaced people, half of them in Africa.
        At that time, officials estimated that there were 14 million to 18 million refugees in the world. Ten million were relatively new for his agency, having been displaced by turmoil in Africa and Asia, in particular.
        In 1981, Mr. Hartling's organization had a staff of 1,000 people, roughly two-thirds of working in the far-flung dreary sites where refugees huddled. He oversaw the mission to have as many refugees as possible returned to their homelands or resettled in new lands.
        His statement said that winning the prize was a message to the world that ''refugees must not be forgotten'' and that for himself and his staff the award signified that the ''voices of millions of refugees in the world have been heard and acknowledged.''
        Mr. Hartling was an idealistic man who was a Lutheran pastor in copenhagen from 1945 to 1955. He led the middle-of-the-road Liberal Party in Denmark for years, was prime minister from 1973 to 1975 and later recalled those days as horrible.
        He succeeded Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan as high commissioner for refugees in 1978, after the General Assembly had voted for him, and held the post, after having been re-elected, until 1985. In those years, he was chiefly concerned with refugees from Vietnam, Ethiopia and Afghanistan and interceded with governments in hopes of securing adequate treatment for the refugees.
        Pakistan gave him the Nishan Award for helping the flow of humanitarian aid for Afghan refugees there. Shortly before he retired as commissioner, he was chosen to receive the Carnegie Award for Humanitarian Service.
        His agency, which first won the Peace Prize in 1954, was praised by the Norwegian Nobel Committee, the selection panel, as having accomplished major work, despite substantial political problems, in dealing with ''a veritable flood of human catastrophe and suffering, both physical and psychological.''
        When Mr. Hartling was commissioner, the United States, a major contributor to the agency's budget, criticized its financial management. Commenting in an interview in 1985, he said: ''If you spend $500 million in 100 countries, there will be some shortcomings. It is unavoidable. We do whatever we can to correct that.''
        He was born in Copenhagen and received a degree in theology in 1939 from the University of Copenhagen.
        In 1940, he married Elsebeth Kirkemann. They had four children. .
        He was succeeded as high commissioner by Jean-Pierre Hocke, a Swiss official who quit in 1989 in a scandal over allegations that he had misused agency money for entertaining and for first-class air travel for himself and his wife, officials at the United Nations said.
      