
        Frederick Donald Coggan, a former archbishop of Canterbury and the first spiritual head of the Church of England to support the ordination of women, died on Wednesday night in a nursing home in southern England. He died after a long illness, according to a statement from Lambeth Palace, official home of the archbishops of Canterbury. He was 90.
        From 1974 to 1980, Archbishop Coggan brought progressive ideas, scholarly training and passionate evangelism to his leadership of the 30 million Anglicans in Britain.
        He proposed the ordination of women at the Lambeth Conference of the world's Anglican churches in the 1970's, despite fierce opposition from other denominations. He had broached the topic with Pope Paul VI in 1975, in a letter asking for the pope's views.
        Paul wrote back that it was impossible ''for truly fundamental reasons,'' citing the example of Christ in choosing male apostles. The Church of England did not ordain women until 1994.
        The archbishop used his training in Semitic languages to improve relations between Christians and Jews. ''He will be remembered particularly for his remarkable contribution to the New English Bible and Revised English Bible, and for his unfailing support for the Council for Christians and Jews,'' said the Most Rev. George Carey, the current archbishop of Canterbury.
        Archbishop Coggan, a slim, bespectacled man, cleaved to broad themes in the pulpit. He denounced racial intolerance and nuclear weapons and promoted a renewal of faith -- calling on churches to train ''Christian commandos'' -- but did not immerse himself in the myriad smaller conflicts of the church.
        In sermons, he urged bishops not to be merely ''superexecutives,'' despite the many administrative demands upon them, but to be ''on the lookout for the surprises of the spirit.''
        Born in London on Oct. 9, 1909, he became an accomplished student at Cambridge University, receiving honors in Oriental languages. He went on to become a lecturer in Semitic languages at Manchester University from 1931 to 1934. A prominent biblical scholar who wrote nine books, he became a professor of the New Testament at Wycliffe College in Toronto from 1937 to 1944, then was principal of the London College of Divinity until 1956.
        He undertook religious duties even as he pursued his scholarly career, having been ordained in 1935. For three years, he served as curate at St. Mary's Church in Islington, North London, where he allied himself with the evangelical wing of the church.
        In 1956, he was appointed bishop of Bradford. During his tenure, he presided over a new translation of the Psalms. A commission that included T. S. Eliot worked with him to revise the Miles Coverdale translations of 1539. ''Our aim was invisible mending,'' he said, when the new Psalter for the Church of England came out in 1963.
        When he was appointed the 101st archbishop of Canterbury, in 1974, his reputation as a personable man, not just a scholar, preceded him.
        ''He was known as the friendly archbishop,'' said the Rev. Stuart Burgess, president of the Methodist Conference and chairman of the York District of the Methodist Church. ''People in York still talk of how he would walk through their streets and stop to talk to people.''
        When selected for the post by Prime Minister Harold Wilson, the Rev. Coggan took four days to accept the offer. As he said, ''The prime minister wanted the answer earlier, but I wanted time to say my prayers and talk to my wife.''
        He retired as archbishop in 1980, and was named to the House of Lords, becoming Lord Coggan of Canterbury and Sissinghurst.
        He is survived by his wife, Jean, and two daughters, Ann and Ruth.
      