
        Michel Kazan, who gave society and entertainment figures the bouffant hairdo and created the coiffures for the models of several fashion designers, died Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan.
        Inspired by historical styles, Mr. Kazan brought several famous hairstyles to the modern world, not just the bouffant but the pageboy and the French twist. In the mid-1960's, he came up with the immensely popular idea of attaching little curls to hairpins, which allowed women to simulate widow's peaks, bangs and curl clusters at the crown of the head.
        He remained active until well into his 80's, and the Manhattan salon at 16 East 55th Street that he opened in 1961 still bears his name.
        In the 1950's, 60's and 70's, Mr. Kazan created original hairstyles for well-known couturiers like Lanvin-Castillo, Chanel and Jean Desses in Paris and James Galanos in the United States. He adapted his designs to blend with their individual collections; one of his trademarks was the crisp, slicked-back, almost boyish styles used in several Galanos shows.
        In the same period, he coiffed social figures and celebrities on both coasts, including Greta Garbo, Lee Radziwill, Natalie Wood, Raquel Welch and Doris Duke.
        Mr. Kazan was born in Russia of French parentage and went to Paris as a young boy.
        He opened his first salon in Paris in 1934; in 1940, during World War II, while France was occupied by the Germans, he left for New York, which he had visited briefly the year before. Several decades later, he still called his permanent entry to this country ''the best Christmas present in my life.''
        In his early years here, he joined Helena Rubinstein, the cosmetics empress, where he became chief stylist of the hairdressing salon. He quickly became a byword in both the fashion and social worlds. By the time that he left Rubinstein in 1961 to open his own luxurious salon, there were branches in a number of cities around the country, and he had become an international authority on hairstyling.
        Later, he was associated with Bonwit Teller, leading to salons in both America and Europe and to several unusual assignments, including designing for theatrical productions and creating a new hairstyle for about 1,800 Eastern Airlines stewardesses.
        Michel Kazan's New York salon served as a training ground for young stylists who later went on to their own international recognition. The best known is Kenneth, who became Jacqueline Kennedy's personal stylist and still has a salon in the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
        Mr. Kazan is survived by his second wife, Maria; their two children, Roman and Zofia Kazan, both of Manhattan; three other children, Micheline Best of Delray Beach, Fla., Jacqueline Ganden of Boynton Beach, Fla., and Michel Kazan of Laguna Beach, Calif.; 9 grandchildren; and 23 great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Kazan had originally hoped to become a plastic surgeon, but when lack of money made that impossible, he attended art school. Years later, he noted his satisfaction at being able to make women beautiful without cutting their faces.
      