
        Cesare Valletti, a lyric tenor whose performances Cesare Vallettiwere praised for their refinement and expressivity but who left opera in 1968 to run a family business that made him wealthy, died on Saturday in Genoa, Italy. He was 77 and lived in Milan.
        Walter Price, a friend of the singer, said that Mr. Valletti died of a heart attack in his hotel room during a visit to Genoa, where he was being  treated for liver cancer.
        Mr. Valletti, who was born in Rome in 1922, studied privately with Tito Schipa and was widely regarded as one of the last exponents of the true Italian lyrical style at a time when recordings and international travel blurred the distinctions between national styles.
        At the height of his career, he was renowned for the coloration and elegance he brought to his portrayals of Alfredo in Verdi's ''Traviata,'' Pinkerton in Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly,'' Ernesto in Donizetti's ''Don Pasquale'' and Almaviva in Rossini's ''Barbiere di Siviglia.'' He also had successes in Mozart roles, including Don Ottavio in ''Don Giovanni'' and Idamante in ''Idomeneo,'' as well as in the title role of Massenet's ''Werther.'' His recordings of most of these roles, as well as a few recital discs he recorded for RCA, have long been prized by collectors.
        Mr. Valletti made his professional debut as Alfredo in Bari, Italy, in 1947, and within three seasons he had sung in most of the major Italian houses.
        In 1950, he sang in a performance of Rossini's ''Turco in Italia'' with Maria Callas at the Teatro Eliseo in Rome. He also made his debut with La Scala during a company visit to Covent Garden in London the same year. He made his American debut as Werther at the San Francisco Opera in 1953, followed the same season by his Metropolitan Opera debut as Don Ottavio.
        During his seven seasons at the Met, Mr. Valletti sang 80 performances. He was still considered to be in his prime when his Met career ended after an altercation -- the details of which have never been disclosed -- with Sir Rudolf Bing, the Met's general manager, during the preparations for a production of Donizetti's ''Elisir d'Amore'' in which he was to sing Nemorino.
        Mr. Valletti continued to sing primarily in Europe, although one of his final performances was as Nerone in Monteverdi's ''Incoronazione di Poppea'' at the Caramoor Festival in Katonah, N.Y., in 1968.
        Thereafter, he gave up singing and joined his father-in-law, Mario Braibanti, in his Milan-based business making pasta machines. Mr. Valletti became the director of the Braibanti company.
        He is survived by his wife, Nicoletta.
      