
        John C. Sawhill, a former president of New York University who advised three presideJohn C. Sawhillnts on energy policy and for the last decade of his life was president and chief executive of the Nature Conservancy, died on Thursday at a hospital in Richmond, Va. He was 63 and lived in Washington and Virginia.
        The cause of death was diabetes, the Nature Conservancy said.
        Mr. Sawhill became head of the conservancy, which describes itself as the world's largest private conservation group, in January 1990. The organization's mission is to preserve animals and plants by acquiring land and water to protect the environment from development.
        The conservancy said in a statement today that during Mr. Sawhill's tenure it had protected more than seven million acres of land in the United States; that the conservancy work force had tripled, to about 3,000, and that its membership had more than doubled, to 1.1 million people.
        The conservancy said that in 1995, under Mr. Sawhill's direction, it completed the largest fund-raising campaign in the history of the conservation movement, raising $315 million. Last March, Mr. Sawhill announced the start of a $1 billion campaign.
        Mr. Sawhill was president of New York University from 1975 to 1979. When he took office, the university, like its hometown, was mired in debt and its very future seemed in danger. Mr. Sawhill, who was a professor of economics while serving as president, led a huge fund-raising drive and was widely credited with putting the university's finances back in order.
        Ann Mancuso, dean of the N.Y.U. School of Education, said today that Mr. Sawhill was a risk taker and a strong manager, believing that crises required new approaches. She praised him for helping women achieve positions of responsibility at the university.
        Mr. Sawhill was a lean six-footer, ascetic in behavior and diet. He rose early, often running for a few miles before starting his workday. Lunch might be fresh fruit, cheese, crackers and a soft drink. Ms. Mancuso recalled fondly that some of his first luncheons at N.Y.U. were notable for ''extremely tiny portions of unappetizing food.'' More seriously, she wondered whether his habits were part of his never-ending campaign to stave off the effects of diabetes, a disease she never knew he had.
        Laurence A. Tisch, co-chairman of Loews Corporation and a longtime friend of Mr. Sawhill, also expressed surprise today upon learning of Mr. Sawhill's disease. Mr. Tisch described Mr. Sawhill as ''a very private man,'' especially for a public figure, and one who managed to be blunt and honest without being rude.
        Under Presidents Richard M. Nixon and Gerald R. Ford, he was administrator of the Federal Energy Administration, deputy administrator of the Federal Energy Office, and associate director for energy and environmental matters in the Office of Management and Budget.
        In late 1974, Mr. Sawhill was forced out by President Ford, undone in part by his candor. With the country still reeling from an oil shortage, Mr. Sawhill favored additional gasoline taxes, and said so in public. President Ford opposed new gasoline taxes.
        Mr. Sawhill also conceded in an interview that the Ford administration did not have a plan to stop the rise in oil prices -- an admission that was not exactly a surprise, but one that fanned criticism of the administration as having a less than clear-cut energy policy.
        Though his credentials as an environmentalist became impeccable, Mr. Sawhill's positions were not always predictable. In 1974, for instance, he said that the environmental risks of strip-mining coal might be acceptable to meet national energy demands. That year, he said oil drilling off the New England coast, an idea that horrified fishermen, lobstermen and many environmentalists, should not be beyond consideration.
        And he told a Senate committee in 1974 that higher fuel prices were not necessarily bad, especially if they encouraged oil companies to find new supplies.
        Mr. Sawhill was deputy energy secretary under President Jimmy Carter, then became chairman and chief executive of the United States Synthetic Fuels Corporation. From 1981 until 1990, he was a director of McKinsey & Company, the international management consultants, specializing in energy issues.
        John Crittenden Sawhill was born in Cleveland on June 12, 1936, and grew up in Baltimore. He graduated cum laude from Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs in 1958 and received a doctorate in economics from New York University in 1963. From 1960 to 1963, he was assistant dean and assistant economics professor at N.Y.U.
        He is survived by his wife, Isabel, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution; a son, James, of San Francisco; a brother, James, of Newport News, Va.; two sisters, Sally Supplee of Palo Alto, Calif., and Munroe Hodder of London, and a grandson.
        As head of the Nature Conservancy, Mr. Sawhill pressed for more cooperation between business interests and environmental groups. He refused to see an unbridgeable chasm between profits and clean air and water, and he insisted that Americans would never succeed in cleaning up the environment unless there was growth in per capita income.
        In 1998, George magazine announced, not entirely tongue in cheek, that Mr. Sawhill's accomplishments and free-ranging intellect made him ideal to be president of the United States.
        ''I saw President Clinton after the George story came out,'' Mr. Sawhill said. ''I told him he didn't have to worry.''
        Correction:  May 22, 2000, Monday  An obituary on Saturday about John Sawhill, president and chief executive of the Nature Conservancy and former president of New York University, misstated the surname of the dean of the N.Y.U. School of Education, who reminisced about his management style. She is Ann Marcus, not Mancuso.
      