
        Robert Burr, a stage actor who played many of Shakespeare's most famous roles, died on May 13 in Los Angeles. He was 78 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was emphysema, said his son, Robert Jr.
        With a chiseled jaw and a sturdy physique, Mr. Burr was a top-rated amateur boxer -- he attended Colgate University on a boxing scholarship -- before turning in the gloves for a more erudite pursuit. Mr. Burr, a World War II veteran, began acting after the war and made his Broadway debut in 1951 as a chorus member in the musical ''The Cradle Will Rock.'' His career was sidetracked later that year when he left to fly helicopters as a Marine pilot in the Korean War, where he survived three crash landings.
        Upon returning to civilian life, Mr. Burr plunged into acting, appearing in supporting and understudy roles in productions of ''King Lear'' with Orson Welles, ''Romeo and Juliet'' with Olivia de Havilland, and ''The Andersonville Trial'' with George C. Scott. Between acting jobs, he supported himself and his family of five by working in a frozen food factory in Harlem.
        But in June 1964, Mr. Burr's life suddenly changed from that of a bit player to a leading man. The play was ''Hamlet,'' which was having two productions that summer; one, on Broadway, directed by Sir John Gielgud, with Richard Burton as Hamlet, and a second at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park.
        On Broadway, Mr. Burr was Mr. Burton's understudy, an assignment that looked to be an easy job, as Mr. Burton prided himself on never missing a performance. On the morning of June 3, however, Mr. Burton woke up suffering from an abscess on his tonsils and had to bow out of the matinee, causing a panic at the box office as theatergoers rushed to exchange their tickets. Those who stayed, however, watched as Mr. Burr stepped into the role and made it his own.
        The audience gave Mr. Burr a standing ovation, and the producer, Alexander H. Cohen, made a curtain speech lauding the actor's bravery. After returning, Mr. Burton also addressed the audience at his performance, saying Mr. Burr had performed ''one of most difficult tasks in acting.''
        Amazingly, later that same summer, Mr. Burr would again step into the role of Hamlet, in Central Park, after Alfred Ryder came down with laryngitis. On three hours of rehearsal, Mr. Burr took over the role, and never let it go: the producer, Joseph Papp, decided to keep Mr. Burr as Hamlet, starting a nasty feud between the producer and Mr. Ryder.
        The performance made Mr. Burr's reputation, and the next year Mr. Papp rewarded him with the title role in ''Coriolanus.'' (Mr. Burr's son Robert played Coriolanus's son.) Critics again applauded his performance, with Howard Taubman of The New York Times calling Mr. Burr ''a performer of virile power and smashing intensity.''
        Mr. Burr went on to appear in more Shakespeare in Central Park, in the title role in ''Titus Andronicus,'' and major roles in ''King John,'' ''King Lear'' and ''Henry IV, Part II.'' In 1975, he returned to ''Hamlet,'' this time playing Claudius, alongside Sam Waterson and John Lithgow.
        Mr. Burr also dabbled in television and film, appearing and opposite Shirley MacLaine in 1972 in ''The Possession of Joel Delaney.''
        In addition to his son Robert of Hewitt, N.J., Mr. Burr is survived by his wife, the actress and director Jacqueline Britton; three daughters, Juliet of Tarzana, Calif., Elizabeth of Los Angeles and Laura of New York, and another son, Britt, also of New York.
      