
        Kermit I. Lansner, a member of the trio of editors who remade Newsweek magazine in the early 1960's and by doing so helped to shape the direction of weekly newsmagazines, and who later served as Newsweek's editor, died of complications from lung cancer on Saturday at New York University Hospital. He was 78.
        Mr. Lansner's career was not typical of the traditional news editor. A former philosophy professor and editor at Art News, he and his wife, Fay, a painter, socialized with the Long Island painters of the Abstract Expressionist movement while he was a senior editor at Newsweek rather than mingling solely with the hard-news editors of the weekly newsmagazine culture. A shaggy-headed, burly presence, he was considered a Renaissance man, and was fond of spending afternoons in his Newsweek office dissecting news stories while listening to Beethoven records.
        As a Newsweek editor, he brought a distinct voice to the magazine in the 1960's and early 1970's, when popular culture began to exert a serious influence on the American social landscape.
        When Osborn Elliott became editor of Newsweek in 1961, he selected two executive editors, Mr. Lansner and Gordon Manning, to edit the magazine with him.
        ''With Kermit, we had a Jewish intellectual from New York, and with Gordon, an Irish Catholic sportswriter from Boston, and in my case, a WASP from the Upper East Side,'' Mr. Elliott said in a recent interview. ''It made for a wonderful balance.''
        The balance was so good that the three men, along with other top colleagues, became known in the magazine industry as the Flying Wallendas, a reference to the fact that they could, like a circus trapeze act, handle a multitude of separate editorial tasks at once. (The sobriquet is still used to refer to senior editors at Newsweek.)
        The trio's major innovation was to break away from Newsweek tradition, then decades old, of mimicking Time magazine, with its unsigned articles and what was at the time its notable conservative bias. Under their shared guidance, Newsweek began using bylines for the first time, and made room for cultural coverage as well as hard-news reporting. From 1961 to 1969, the magazine's circulation climbed to 2.4 million from 1.4 million.
        In 1969, Mr. Lansner was named editor of the magazine; under him it included even more cultural coverage. During the three years that Mr. Lansner held the editor's position, circulation climbed to 2.6 million in 1972 from 2.4 million in 1969.
        Mr. Lansner stepped down as editor of Newsweek in 1972, working as a contributing editor and columnist, and also acting as editor in chief of Newsweek Books, a book publishing imprint that is now defunct, until 1974. In the 1970's, Mr. Lansner wrote a column for The New Republic, and in the early 1980's was editor in chief of Financial World magazine, to which he contributed a column until 1996.
        Kermit Irving Lansner was born in New York City on May 9, 1922. He graduated from Columbia College in 1942, and studied at the Sorbonne on a Fulbright scholarship. He became an assistant professor of philosophy at Kenyon College, then went to work as an editor at Art News before joining Newsweek in 1954. He married Fay Gross in 1948.
        Mr. Lansner is survived by his wife and two daughters, Gabrielle Lansner of Brooklyn and Erica Lansner Villa Lobos of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      