
        Jonah Jones, a jazz trumpeter who played with some of the great swing bands and sold a million copies of his versions of ''On the Street Where You Live'' and ''Baubles, Bangles and Beads,'' died on Sunday. He was 91 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Jones, who was born in Louisville, Ky., learned to play the trumpet at a community center where he played church music. The day he heard a Louis Armstrong record, he said, his life changed. While still in Louisville, he performed with local bands like Tinsley's Royal Aces and Perdue's Pirates; in 1928 he was hired by the band leader Horace Henderson and worked in the Midwest for a few years.
        In 1932 he moved north and joined the violinist Stuff Smith's sextet. He continued changing jobs, appearing with McKinney's Cotton Pickers and Lil Armstrong, Louis Armstrong's wife, among other band leaders. But his first big break came in 1936, with a four-year residency at the Onyx Club secured by Stuff Smith. The band, featuring Smith on electrified violin, was popular, salting its vivid playing with slapstick humor.
        After working briefly with Benny Carter and Fletcher Henderson, Mr. Jones became a longtime member of Cab Calloway's group, from 1941 to 1952, seeing the band through its reduction from a big band to a septet to a quartet. (Calloway was an appreciative boss: he recorded a song celebrating Mr. Jones's arrival called ''Jonah Joins the Cab.'')
        He staged a midcareer resurgence in the 50's by putting a mute in his horn and familiar pop melodies in his hands. In 1952 Mr. Jones received an offer from the pianist Joe Bushkin to fill in at the Embers, one of New York's 52nd Street jazz clubs. Mr. Jones agreed to put a mute in his horn; this quieter sound was what his predecessor in the band, Buck Clayton, had adopted, and it was what the restaurant preferred. Mr. Jones, whose resume included stints with the society band leaders Lester Lanin and Meyer Davis, wasn't particularly fazed. Despite the fact that his regular style was open, forceful and swinging in the Louis Armstrong vein, he knew how to play softly too.
        He was invited back to play at the Embers with his own quartet in 1955, and the same restrictions of volume applied. Occasionally Mr. Jones was tempted to take the mute out of his horn. ''People would say, 'Jonah, just play one chorus open,' '' Mr. Jones told John S. Wilson of The New York Times in 1983. ''One night, Joe Howard, the maitre d', who had warned me to keep the mute in, was busy, and I thought he wasn't listening, so I played one chorus open. Afterward, when I came off the stand, Joe told me that if I took the mute out again I should just forget the address of the club.''
        The trumpeter Jimmy Owens recalled: ''The essence of his style was to swing. His whole thing was to communicate, and that's why he stuck with the melodies. He always said of himself that he was not a chord player, like Dizzy Gillespie and Roy Eldridge and Charlie Shavers; he was more of a melody player.''
        What started as a once-weekly job led to a week's engagement, which finally led to a five-year contract, in which Mr. Jones played at the club 20 weeks a year. He also began to sing during his performances of this period. The Embers became Mr. Jones's home base for the next decade, and he began to make records that further refined this sound, which verged on easy listening. His recordings of show tunes were extremely successful, and he won a Grammy in 1959 for the album ''I Dig Chicks.''.
        Touring and recording through the 80's, Mr. Jones finally retired from performing in 1993. His final public performance was at the Blue Note in Greenwich Village in November, when he sang during a benefit for the Jazz Foundation of America.
        He is survived by three children, Shirley Redmond of Manhattan, Lawrence Jones of the Bronx and William Jones of Cleveland; and two grandchildren.
      