
        William Dale Jennings, a novelist, playwright and pioneer of the American gay rights movement, died of respiratory failure on May 11 in Los Angeles. He was 82 and lived in Los Angeles.
        He had moved to the area after graduation from high school in Denver more than six decades ago with ambitions to be a writer and saw three of his novels published. One, ''The Cowboys,'' was made into a movie starring John Wayne, Colleen Dewhurst and Bruce Dern in 1972.
        But Mr. Jennings's place in American political history was etched on a November afternoon 50 years ago, when he sat on a Los Angeles hillside with four other men to talk about forming a group to work for gay civil rights.
        The idea was the conception of an American leftist and trade union organizer named Harry Hay, and the organization that resulted was the Mattachine Society, the nation's first enduring gay rights organization. The term the society chose was not ''gay'' however. It was ''homophile.''
        Even meeting to discuss such things was an act of daring. Mr. Hay was a married man. He and two others of the five had been members of the Communist Party, and hostility toward Communists and gays was deepening, a product of the cold war atmosphere that was beginning to chill America. A Senate subcommittee issued a report in December 1950 concluding that gays were a threat to national security.
        ''We lived in terror almost every day of our lives,'' Mr. Hay said.
        The report was the beginning of a national witch hunt, and the Mattachine members took elaborate precautions to keep their identities secret. Thus it was Mr. Jennings whose courage made him a permanent icon -- and the infant movement's first hero -- when he was arrested in Los Angeles on a sexual solicitation charge a year later and decided to publicly contest it in court.
        Entrapment by vice detectives posing as gays in the bars, public parks and restrooms where gay men went to find each other was common then and for years to come, and those charged with soliciting police officers commonly pleaded guilty rather than face an accusation of homosexual conduct in open court.
        Mr. Jennings was followed home and arrested by a police decoy he had encountered at night in Westlake Park. No one had ever been known to fight such a charge.
        Mr. Hay said Mr. Jennings was clearly depressed when he bailed him out of jail that morning. But Mr. Jennings had a dramatic, even combative, personality. He had earned a reputation as a bright young playwright in Pasadena, Calif., in the late 1930's, writing, directing and producing his own short plays. He had served in the Pacific theater in the Army in World War II. Mr. Hay told Mr. Jennings that they should fight the charge to call attention to the entrapment policy. Mr. Jennings agreed, and in a 10-day trial in 1952, with a San Francisco labor lawyer defending him, he acknowledged being gay but denied the solicitation.
        When the jury deadlocked 11 to 1 for acquittal, the judge dismissed the charge, and Mr. Jennings was freed. His case had given the young movement its first cause and a surge in membership.
        That year, with Don Slater and Dorr Legg, he founded ONE Inc., which began publishing a national journal for gays, ONE Magazine, which reported on police and government harassment of gays, and was printed at first on a small press in Mr. Jennings's brother-in-law's basement. The magazine established an important legal precedent when the United States postmaster in Los Angeles confiscated it as ''obscene, lewd, lascivious and filthy'' in 1954, and the Supreme Court in 1958 unanimously reversed lower court rulings upholding the post office.
        Mr. Jennings wrote articles, book and movie reviews for ONE Magazine, and later for Tangents Magazine, the journal of the Homosexual Information Center in Los Angeles. Even after he had stopped writing for publication, said Jim Schneider, chairman of the center, Mr. Jennings continued to dictate reviews of films, and at his death left some 125 unpublished manuscripts of books, plays and stories. His two other published books were ''The Ronin: A Novel Based on a Zen Myth,'' and ''The Sinking of the Sarah Diamond.''
      