
        Mark Reynolds Hughes, the multimillionaire founder of Herbalife International, a nutritional supplement company that has been controversial for both its products and sales methods, died last weekend in his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 44.
        His death appeared to be from natural causes, a spokesman for Herbalife said. An autopsy is to be completed later this week.
        Mr. Hughes's body was found by relatives in the bedroom of his beach-front house on the Pacific Coast Highway about 11 a.m. on Sunday. He is believed to have died late on Saturday or early Sunday.
        Mr. Hughes was born in Los Angeles and had only a ninth-grade education. According to the Herbalife Web site, he became interested in nutrition at 18, when his mother, JoAnn Hughes, died from an accidental overdose of prescription diet pills.
        In 1976 he began selling Slender Now, a weight-loss product made by Seyforth Laboratories. The company sold its product using direct sales, in which an independent sales representative buys the product at a discount then sells it to the public. Each distributor gets a royalty from the sales of every additional distributor he brings in. It is a method Mr. Hughes would use to market and distribute Herbalife.
        After three years, Seyforth failed, and Mr. Hughes, one of its top sales representatives, began selling exercise equipment and weight-loss products for another company before teaming with Richard Marconi, a former colleague at Slender Now, to start Herbalife in 1980.
        Mr. Hughes started selling Herbalife -- based on ''natural and herbal ingredients'' -- from his car. In five years he was a millionaire.
        In 1985, he paid $7 million for a house owned by the country singer and actor Kenny Rogers.
        His infomercials, featuring revival-style testimonials from people who had used Herbalife products, were shown on cable TV, and he promoted his products on those same programs with a fierce, evangelical fervor.
        In 1986, he took Herbalife public.
        Members of his sales force, at the time estimated to be more than 700,000 in the United States, Canada, Australia and Britain, were known to wear badges saying ''Lose weight now/Ask me how!''
        But in the wake of the success came controversy. Federal and California health agencies accused the company of violating labeling standards and using improper sales practices. According to The Associated Press, regulators contended that the company was making medicinal claims. Medicines are regulated by the F.D.A., while nutritional supplements are not.
        Some health experts doubted the efficacy of Herbalife products, saying that in some instances they relied too heavily on laxatives and caffeine.
        In 1986, Herbalife, while admitting no wrongdoing, settled with California by paying $850,000 in fines and agreeing to take some products off the market. At the time, the California attorney general, John Van De Kamp, was quoted in The Wall Street Journal as saying it was the ''largest settlement ever attained from a health products company.''
        In February 1999, Mr. Hughes announced plans to buy the outstanding stock of his company but abandoned those plans last month because of trouble obtaining financing.
        The company reported 1999 retail  sales of $1.79 billion, in 46 countries, and a worldwide sales force of more than a million people.
        Mr. Hughes is survived by his third wife, the former Darcy LaPier; his father, Jack Reynolds; his grandmother, Hazel Hughes; three half-brothers, Kirk Hartmen, Jon Hughes and Don Hughes; and a son, Alexander Hughes.
      