
        Oscar H. Shaftel, who was one of the original faculty members at Queens College when it opened in 1937 and was fired by the city in 1953 after he refused to answer a Senate subcommittee's questions about Communist affiliation in academia, died at his Queens home on May 10. He was 88.
        The laws on which his dismissal was based were overturned as unconstitutional in the 1960's, and in 1982 he won a major settlement from the city.
        Dr. Shaftel, a slender, serious man who began his career as an English teacher and became an authority on Oriental philosophy, was one of more than a dozen professors discharged by the city for refusing to answer the subcommittee's questions.
        He and three other teachers from New York City colleges were called before the investigations subcommittee of the Senate Internal Security Committee headed by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy on Feb. 9 and Feb. 10, 1953. Each witness cited the Fifth Amendment protection against self-incrimination in refusing to answer.
        ''They asked if you were a Communist,'' Dr. Shaftel said in a 1980 interview. ''If you said no, and they had different information, that was perjury. If you said yes, they said, 'Name everyone that you know, all of your friends.' If you forgot any, that was perjury.''
        The immediate result of refusing to answer was that the teachers were called before city investigative agencies. Two laws were invoked against them. One prohibited city employees from belonging to any organization considered subversive. The other called for the immediate suspension of anyone who refused to testify before courts, grand juries or legislative inquiries into official city business.
        The Supreme Court declared the first law unconstitutional in 1967, and the second in 1968.
        Besides refusing to answer some questions, Dr. Shaftel upset the senators with some of the answers he did give. In particular, he said that Communists should be employed if they were competent, calling arguments to the contrary irrelevant and improper. He insisted that such matters ''must be settled by the academic profession.''
        He told the subcommittee: ''I cannot imagine a capable administrator telling Sean O'Casey he could not teach drama, or Picasso that he couldn't teach art.'' He also said the senators were ''making our colleges the laughingstocks of Europe.''
        After he was fired, Dr. Shaftel and other dismissed academics had to get by in what they spoke of as ''the wilderness,'' taking poor-paying jobs for which they had little experience. In Dr. Shaftel's case, he became what he called a hack writer. He knocked out profiles of small businessmen for a magazine, wrote a book about house construction and copy-edited other books. He often wrote under a pseudonym.
        ''It was a very bad time, hard on me, hard on my kids,'' he said in an interview in 1982. ''We have survived, but I don't recommend it.''
        Oscar Hamilton Shaftel, who was born in Brooklyn on May 5, 1912, is survived by a son, Anthony, of La Crescenta, Calif., and two daughters, Eve, of Queens, and Ann, of Halifax, Nova Scotia. A sister, Rosalind Lerman, of Deerfield Beach, Fla., also survives him. His wife, Ruth Marra Shaftel, died last year.
        Dr. Shaftel graduated from what was then the Brooklyn branch of City College, where he had his first brush with public controversy. As editor of a weekly school newspaper, he defended a columnist's right to publish a joke that school administrators considered in bad taste. He was suspended for two weeks.
        He received a doctorate from Harvard in English, aesthetics and Greek and Latin.
        Dr. Shaftel served in the Army Air Corps during World War II.
        He was active on the political left, supporting continued cooperation with the Soviet Union after the war and organizing a student group to support the Progressive Party presidential nominee, Henry A. Wallace, in 1948, an effort backed by some American Communists. Like many other academics in those days, Dr. Shaftel belonged to the College Teachers Union, which officials considered leftist and included some Communists among its members.
        Even before either law had been overturned, Dr. Shaftel edged back into academia. From 1963 to 1977, he taught full-time in English and Oriental studies at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, and then continued teaching Oriental studies there for three more years on a part-time basis. In 1973, he returned to his old school, Queens College, as an adjunct professor, and the next year he published a book about Buddhism. He was working on a long study about the changing concepts of God through history when he died.
        In 1982, 14 years after the last of the laws used to fire him was ruled unconstitutional, Dr. Shaftel was finally given a city pension. He received $151,695. At a news conference, he was asked whether he felt he had regained his honor.
        He looked out into the lights and said quietly, ''I never lost my honor.''
        Correction:  September 1, 2000, Friday  An obituary on May 24 about Oscar H. Shaftel, a faculty member at Queens College who was fired in 1953 after he refused to answer a Senate subcommittee's questions about Communist affiliation in academia, misidentified the subcommittee and its chairman. It was the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee, headed by Sen. William E. Jenner, not Senator Joseph R. McCarthy. A letter from a reader informed The Times of the error on July 18. This correction was delayed by an editing lapse.
      