
        Tex BenekeTex Beneke, the tenor saxophone player and vocalist with the Glenn Miller Orchestra who sang one of its most famous hits, ''Chattanooga Choo Choo,'' and led the band after Miller's plane disappeared in World War II, died on Tuesday at a convalescent home in Costa Mesa, Calif. He was 86.
        The cheerful, sunny voice of the unassuming boy singer from Texas was ubiquitous on the American soundtrack in the early years of World War II. In 1941 the Miller orchestra introduced the Harry Warren-Mack Gordon song ''Chattanooga Choo Choo'' in the movie musical extravaganza ''Sun Valley Serenade.'' Tex Beneke was joined by Paula Kelly and the Modernaires, and the Nicholas Brothers and Dorothy Dandridge danced along. The recording on the Blue Bird label was a million-seller.
        Mr. Beneke's vocals were also heard on Miller hits like ''I've Got a Gal in Kalamazoo,'' ''Ida! Sweet as Apple Cider'' and ''Don't Sit Under the Apple Tree (With Anyone Else but Me).''
        Born in Fort Worth, Tex., on Feb. 12, 1914, Gordon Beneke started playing the saxophone at the age of 9. He joined the Ben Young orchestra in 1935, playing one-nighters in the Midwest, and in 1938 he and the band found themselves in Detroit. The drummer Gene Krupa was looking for players to join his new orchestra and hired three players from the Young band, not including Mr. Beneke. But Krupa knew Glenn Miller, and over lunch in New York recommended Mr. Beneke to him. Miller called Mr. Beneke and offered him a job at a starting salary of $50 a week.
        Mr. Beneke's reply, as he recounted in a 1985 interview, was: ''Tell you what I'll do, Glenn. I'll come with the band for $52.50 a week.'' After a silence, Miller replied: ''All right, I'll give it to you. But you're going to have to prove that you're worth the extra two and a half dollars.''
        When Mr. Beneke arrived at his first rehearsal, Miller greeted him with ''O.K., Tex, get your horn,'' bestowing a permanent nickname.
        At first Mr. Beneke was only a saxophonist in the Miller orchestra, but that soon changed. On tours, Mr. Beneke and Miller would take turns driving Miller's car, and one night Mr. Beneke was singing ''Ida! Sweet as Apple Cider'' to keep himself awake. Miller seized on the idea and asked Billy May, one of the band's arrangers, to write an arrangement for Mr. Beneke to sing in his gentle, Southern voice. Mr. Beneke agreed, although he had no previous professional singing experience. He soon became one of the band's most popular soloists.
        Mr. Beneke was one of the day's popular jazz saxophonists. The critic Gunther Schuller, in his book ''The Swing Era,'' described his even, romantic, easy-to-follow playing as a ''smoothed-out Coleman Hawkins'' style, and he was given many of the saxophone solos that dotted the orchestra's famous ensemble reed sound.
        After appearing in the films ''Orchestra Wives'' and ''Sun Valley Serenade,'' both of which feature Mr. Beneke's playing and singing, Miller dissolved his band in 1942 and joined the Army Air Corps. Mr. Beneke joined the Navy in 1943. In 1944 Miller's plane vanished without a trace in a flight from England to France, and his widow, Helen Miller,  asked Mr. Beneke to take the Glenn Miller orchestra back out on the road.
        He did, and the ghost band had a string of hits both on record and in the remaining dance palaces of America. In December 1947, even as the big band era faded, Tex Beneke and the Glenn Miller Orchestra played to a record-breaking crowd of 6,750 dancers at the Hollywood Palladium.
        But by the late 1940's he grew tired of having to repeat the classic Miller arrangements at every appearance and quit the band to strike out on his own. His action may have led to his absence from the 1953 film ''The Glenn Miller Story,'' which starred Jimmy Stewart as the bandleader and which made no mention of Mr. Beneke, who had played such a prominent role in the band's success.
        Mr. Beneke's own band, Tex Beneke and his Orchestra, lasted for 50 years, recording for MCA and other labels. The Miller songbook was the mainstay of its repertory, but the orchestra also performed the music of Count Basie, Duke Ellington, Tommy Dorsey and others. The Tex Beneke Orchestra, now under the operation of Jim Snodgrass, still tours and performs, and is based in Southern California.
        Mr. Beneke is survived by his wife, Sandra, of Santa Ana, Calif.
      