
        Vittorio Gassman, a versatile film star who was also one of Italy's leading classical stage actors, died yesterday in his home in Rome. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his agent, Franca Rodolfi.
        In a career that lasted more than 50 years, Mr. Gassman was expert in both comic and tragic roles, moving effortlessly from stage to screen while also acting as a director, a producer, a translator of plays and leading man in his own traveling repertory company.
        Although he was often disparaging about his years in Hollywood, he wore his fame lightly and was proud of his success in comedy. ''The art of the comic is no less than that of the tragedian,'' he said. ''Gordon Craig said that an actor has to be a clown to put himself into another's shoes.''
        He was known to American and international audiences as a star of the Italian films ''The Big Deal on Madonna Street,'' ''The Easy Life'' and ''Il Successo'' (''The Success''). In 1975, he was named best actor at the Cannes International Film Festival for his performance as a blind man in ''Profumo di Donna,'' later remade in English as ''Scent of a Woman'' with Al Pacino. It was one of many prizes that Mr. Gassman earned in his long career.
        Mr. Gassman was frequently underrated as an actor, perhaps because of his striking appearance: he was darkly handsome, 6 feet 2 inches tall, and there were often references to his ''arrogant good looks.'' He could also make acting look easy. Dino Risi, who directed him in ''The Easy Life,'' said: ''Gassman is an actor of great talent, determination, ambition and intelligence. He is so good he can imitate 'naturalness' to perfection.''
        It was not so much an imitation as an ability to fit himself into whatever role he chose to play: an easily distracted burglar in ''Big Deal on Madonna Street,'' an irresponsible playboy in ''The Easy Life'' and a con man in ''Love and Larceny.'' In that last film he was a man of more than a dozen faces, assuming the guises of Santa Claus, a Japanese bridegroom and an autocratic general. In ''Let's Talk About Women,'' he played nine roles. Which one was the real Gassman? The answer was, of course, whichever one he chose to be.
        In contrast to many of his peers, he also had an important career in the theater, in plays by Aeschylus, Shakespeare, Ibsen and Pirandello, among many others. In a 1965 article in The New York Times Magazine, Melton S. Davis called him ''Italy's incomparable Hamlet.''
        Characterizing Mr. Gassman's image on screen, Mr. Davis said, ''Possibly no other actor in Europe could portray so well a man who loses his dignity while trying to hold on to shreds of self-respect. He performs with sensibility and interior tension; his face, despite its classic lineaments, is unendingly mobile and expressive.''
        He repeatedly returned to the stage. In addition to his many Shakespearean roles, he performed in contemporary plays: for example, he was Stanley Kowalski in the Italian version of ''A Streetcar Named Desire.'' In 1964, he read from ''The Divine Comedy'' in a New York celebration of Dante's 700th birthday. On several other occasions he acted in New York (with his one-man show, ''Viva Vittorio!''), and he performed on stages throughout Europe and South America.
        For his work on stage, he was praised and also criticized for his florid performance style. The actor Giorgio Albertazi said: ''I'm not the first to accuse Gassman of being a ham. He plays his hand so forcefully that the intentions of the work fall out of sight, leaving room only for the great, for the magnificent, for the incomparable interpretation of Vittorio Gassman.''
        In response to criticism, Mr. Gassman said, ''In a country where the most desired honor is to be considered simpatico, I have built my career and reputation on being considered antipatico.'' On screen he was able to combine the two, allowing moviegoers to understand characters they might normally consider to be reprehensible.
        Mr. Gassman was born in Genoa on Sept. 1, 1922. He studied law briefly and also considered a career in journalism. At the suggestion of his mother, whose family had discouraged her from becoming an actress, he went to Rome's Academy of Dramatic Art. At first he felt uncomfortable on stage, but he gradually realized that he enjoyed acting and found that he had a natural talent. He made his professional stage debut in 1943 in ''La Nemica,'' then worked with a company headed by the director Luchino Visconti.
        In 1946, after acting in more than 40 plays, he tried the movies, largely to finance his work on stage. His first breakthrough came in 1950 playing a criminal in Giuseppe de Santis's ''Bitter Rice'' (with Silvana Mangano), an unsparing slice of neo-realistic life. That was followed by ''Anna,'' also with Ms. Mangano.
        His first film in the United States was ''The Glass Wall'' in 1952. In quick succession, he married the actress Shelley Winters and signed a contract with MGM. ''Sombrero'' with Yvonne de Carlo in 1953 was followed the next year by ''Rhapsody'' with Elizabeth Taylor. Both the marriage to Ms. Winters and the Hollywood career soon ended.
        Then and later, Mr. Gassman was dismissive of his work in Hollywood, regarding it as a misadventure. ''They didn't understand that a European actor could be anything but a cliche Latin lover,'' he said. ''After a couple of years I was anxious to go back to Italy, and they were anxious to send me back, so it was easy.''
        As a freelance actor, he was in ''War and Peace'' (with Audrey Hepburn, 1956) and ''The Miracle'' (with Carroll Baker, 1959). Taking a break from his film work, he fulfilled a longstanding dream by forming his own theater company, Teatro Popolare Italiano.
        Using a portable stage, he toured plays through Italy. In 1957, he directed himself in a film version of Jean Paul Sartre's adaptation of Alexander Dumas's ''Kean.''
        In the late 1950's, with a seeming suddenness, he revealed his great talent as a comic actor, and his ability to spoof himself, beginning with ''Big Deal on Madonna Street.'' The Mario Monicelli film, a waggish tale of an inept gang of thieves, also featured Marcello Mastroianni and quickly became a worldwide success. The director followed that with ''The Great War,'' with Mr. Gassman playing an indolent soldier in the Italian army. (The film also also starred Alberto Sordi and Ms. Mangano.)
        ''The Easy Life,'' in 1963, provided one of his most challenging roles, one that was to become a kind of signature. As Bruno Fortuna, he was a wastrel with a lingering charm, a rascal who takes a young law student (Jean-Louis Trintignant) on a breathless and ultimately destructive journey through the high (and easy) life.
        His other films included ''A Wedding'' and ''Quintet'' for Robert Altman, ''The Family,'' Paul Mazursky's ''Tempest,'' Barry Levinson's ''Sleepers'' (in which he played a Mafia don) and ''La Bomba.''
        He is survived by his third wife, Diletta D'Andrea, and four children.
        Mr. Gassman, who often spoke about the art of acting, once said: ''As an actor you live your life watching yourself live your life and watching others watch you, too. Acting is based on lying, a noble type of lying, which is why I decided to tell the truth; it's my chief luxury.''
      