
        William E. Simon, who directed the nation's energy policy and served as treasury secretary in the dark economic days of the 1970's and then proved to have a golden touch as an investor in the boom days of the 1980's, died yesterday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 72 and lived in Santa Barbara.
        The cause of death was complications from pulmonary fibrosis, a lung disease that he had been fighting for more than a year, said James Piereson, executive director of the John M. Olin Foundation in New York, where Mr. Simon was president. .
        A conservative Republican, Mr. Simon left a successful Wall Street career as a bond trader in 1973 to join Richard Nixon's administration as deputy treasury secretary. He went on to become director of the Federal Energy Office -- or ''energy czar,'' as he was known -- later that year when the economy reeled in the wake of the Arab oil embargo, and in April 1974 he was named treasury secretary, a post he retained when Gerald R. Ford succeeded Nixon.
        After leaving office at the end of the Ford administration, Mr. Simon returned to Wall Street, where he became emblematic of a breed of aggressive investor. In 1982, Mr. Simon and a partner, Raymond G. Chambers, paid $80.5 million, almost all of it borrowed, to purchase Gibson Greetings, a card maker, in one of the first high-profile leveraged buyouts.
        Fourteen months later they sold the company in a public offering to shareholders for $290 million, yielding Mr. Simon and Mr. Chambers a profit of $70 million each and creating a mystique about Mr. Simon's investing prowess that was only partly tarnished in recent years by a string of disappointing deals.
        Mr. Simon also served as the United States Olympic Committee's treasurer from 1977 to 1980, and as its president for the subsequent four years, playing important roles in the American decision to boycott the 1980 Olympic Games in Moscow, and in planning the 1984 games in Los Angeles.
        William Edward Simon was born on Nov. 27, 1927, in Paterson, N.J. His father was an insurance agent, and he lived a middle-class life through the Depression. After graduating from high school in 1946, he served in the Army and then enrolled at Lafayette College, in Easton, Pa., where he met Carol Girard. They were married in 1950.
        After graduating from Lafayette in 1952, he got a $75-a-week job trading municipal bonds. By 1964, he was working at Salomon Brothers, where he was known as a quick-tempered, outspoken and very skilled bond trader. Within Salomon's aggressive culture, his sometimes-abrasive personality was no drawback. By the early 1970's, he was one of the firm's senior partners and was earning more than $2 million a year.
        On the recommendation of Attorney General John Mitchell, a former Wall Street lawyer, Treasury Secretary George P. Shultz recruited Mr. Simon as his deputy at the beginning of Nixon's second term. Even as the Watergate scandal was beginning to envelop the White House, Mr. Simon was enmeshed in another national crisis, the embargo imposed by Arab oil producers on nations friendly to Israel.
        By the end of 1973, Mr. Simon was coordinating the administration's efforts to encourage conservation and to allocate scarce supplies of oil -- favoring factory production and home heating oil over gasoline for motorists. It was a job that brought him criticism from all sides, not least from consumers, who resented gasoline shortages and high prices.
        ''I'm the guy that caused the lines at the gas stations,'' Mr. Simon once said.
        But Mr. Simon seemed sufficiently thick skinned to cope and more than willing to fight back.
        ''We have become a nation of great energy wastrels,'' he said in 1973. He publicly chastised another administration official for crossing him, saying the official should ''keep his cotton pickin' hands off energy policy.'' He labeled statements by the shah of Iran, then a key ally of the United States, ''irresponsible and reckless.''
        By early 1974, the country was in a recession, and when Mr. Shultz resigned as treasury secretary, Nixon quickly named Mr. Simon to replace him. Mr. Simon spent much of his time on international policy, pressing Arab nations to reinvest the dollars they were reaping through oil sales in the United States and creating an international credit line for poor nations that had been hurt by soaring energy costs.
        At home, with inflation rising, he counseled against deficit spending to stimulate the economy, in keeping with his fiscal conservatism. In 1975, he created a political firestorm when he helped persuade President Ford not to bail New York City out of its deep financial crisis. He argued that coming to New York's aid would encourage profligacy among other cities.
        ''Then came the New York fiscal crisis, and I was Genghis Khan,'' he recalled a dozen years later.
        Under pressure from bankers, who countered that if New York City were to default on its debt, it could reverberate through markets around the world, Mr. Simon and Mr. Ford ultimately agreed to aid the city.
        After Jimmy Carter was elected in 1976, Mr. Simon left Washington and became a consultant to investment firms and businesses, as well as becoming treasurer of the Olympic committee, for which he had raised funds before entering government service.
        In 1980, when President Carter urged the committee to boycott the Moscow Olympics that summer to protest the Soviet presence in Afghanistan, most American amateur sports officials and athletes were opposed. Mr. Simon's impassioned speech to the committee's house of delegates in favor of the boycott swung the vote.
        The next year, when Mr. Simon was elected president of the Olympic committee by acclamation, the organization was $9 million in debt and had to meet an $88 million budget for the next four years. The boycott had hurt fund-raising.
        But Mr. Simon turned potential doom into a financial bonanza by having the Olympic committee become an equal partner with the Los Angeles Olympic organizers. Despite a retaliatory boycott by the Soviet Union and most of its allies, those Olympics earned $225 million.
        The Olympic committee, with its 40 percent share and an additional $35 million from the Olympic coin program, created the United States Olympic Foundation as a permanent financial source for American amateur sports. That became the major legacy of Mr. Simon's era at the committee.
        During the same period, Mr. Simon was building a fortune with his investments in leveraged buyouts, of which the Gibson Greetings deal was the best known. The company he operated in partnership with Mr. Chambers, Wesray, bought undervalued companies with borrowed money, whipped them into shape or waited until a willing buyer appeared, and then sold them, often for hefty profits. By the late 1980's, Forbes magazine was estimating Mr. Simon's wealth at $300 million.
        But his partnership with Mr. Chambers came apart in 1986, as Mr. Simon turned to building a network of financial institutions on the West Coast and across the Pacific.
        He had some success purchasing banks and failed savings and loan associations and reselling them, but he never approached his stated goal of building a trans-Pacific merchant banking empire. In 1993, federal regulators seized one of his properties, Western Federal Savings and Loan, when it sank into insolvency.
        In recent years, Mr. Simon had dedicated more of his time to philanthropy and charitable work.
        He gradually turned much of the responsibility for his business over to his two sons, William E. Simon Jr., and J. Peter Simon.
        In 1996, Mr. Simon received the Blessed Hyacinth Cormier Award for outstanding Catholic leadership, and in 1999, he was honored by the Olympic committee.
        Mr. Simon's first wife, Carol, died in 1995. He is survived by his second wife, Tonia Adams Donnelley, whom he married in 1996, and by seven children from his first marriage. In addition to his two sons, they are Mary Beth Simon Streep; Carol Leigh Simon Porges; Aimee Simon Bloom; Julie Ann Simon Munro and Johanna Katrina Simon.
      