
        Time, which Tito Puente could make throb, pulsate, swivel, shake and finally, in the pounding rhythms of mambo, cross over from El Barrio in Harlem to the Palladium to the airwaves of America, caught up with the legendary band leader and percussionist late Wednesday night, when he died at the age of 77.
        He suffered complications after open heart surgery at New York University Medical Center, his manager, Eddie Rodriguez, said.
        The man popularly known as El Rey, The King, who put mambo on the map -- and who came to be nearly as much a symbol of New York City as Yankee Stadium -- had been scheduled to perform at a benefit Wednesday evening at Christie's Auction House.
        When it became apparent to Mr. Puente, who had become ill while performing in San Juan with the Puerto Rican Symphony last week, that he would be unable to go on, he gave the order that his band be there.
        Why was it so important for Mr. Puente, with his five Grammys and 118 records and CD's, that one little show go on?
        ''Tito was always a band leader, the last of the real, true band leaders, in the line of Duke Ellington and Count Basie,'' said Mr. Rodriguez, who had spoken to Mr. Puente Monday before he entered the hospital. ''He felt responsible. He said, 'Keep the boys working.' That's what he always said, 'Keep the boys working. Because I want to have my band when I get out; I want it to be tight.' ''
        The most important Latin musician of the last half century and a key figure in the fusion of Latin music with jazz, Mr. Puente, with his distinctive cherubic mug, was an ebullient and wild performer who often clowned and laughed as he whapped away on his timbales.
        ''What else have I got to sell?'' he said a few months ago when asked about this style. ''I'm not Ricky Martin, to wave my hips around and show my belly button. I don't have a girl in front of the band singing. I need the people to see I'm having a good time.''
        Known to the youngest of his fans as the man who wrote Carlos Santana's hit ''Oye Como Va,'' or perhaps from the 1992 movie ''The Mambo Kings,'' in which he played himself, Mr. Puente had a career that spanned five decades.
        There were few jazz stars from the bebop era and beyond who did not find him a compatible playing companion, and he was a staple of the old Salsa Meets Jazz series at the Village Gate nightclub in Manhattan.
        While many jazz groups added jazz sounds to Latin rhythms, Mr. Puente liked to add a Latin rhythm section to a straight jazz arrangement. A fine showman, he was not beyond gimmicks like recording Dave Brubeck's ''Take Five'' in four-four time. He was also tireless; even in recent years he worked 200 to 300 performances a year.
        But it was Mr. Puente's impact at the beginning of his career, bringing Latin music to a new audience at the Palladium on Broadway at 53rd Street, that made many grow nostalgic and teary at the news of his death yesterday.
        ''He gave us all a life,'' said Robert Farris Thompson, a professor at Yale University, where Mr. Puente had been awarded a Chubb Fellowship this year. ''And by us I mean not only Puerto Ricans, but mainland blacks, huge numbers of Italians and Jews. We all loved him. There were guys my age who were envious they weren't at the Moulin Rouge in the days of Toulouse-Lautrec; who weren't at Minton's in the days of the birth of bop. I was secure in the knowledge that I had been there on the birth of New York mambo.''
        A musician who often said that he was ''born in rhythm,'' Ernest Anthony Puente was born on April 20, 1923, at Harlem Hospital and grew up on 110th Steet, off Madison, in the neighborhood then known as Spanish Harlem, or the Barrio. Both his parents were immigrants from Puerto Rico; his father worked in a razor blade factory; there was a younger sister and a younger brother. Life was not easy: Tito's father, Mr. Puente said in an interview in The New York Times last April, was a gambler. His brother died at 4 in a fall from the fire escape.
        The young Tito was a drummer from the time he could remember, drumming so loudly and so often, on the kitchen table, with pots and pans, that the neighbors beseeched his mother to get her son music lessons. She did, though to get the 25 cents a lesson she needed she had to go through her husband's pockets for money when he was asleep.
        Tito studied piano, then drums, then timbales -- a rack-mounted setup of drums, cowbell, woodblock and other percussion instruments, which provide crisp upper-register rhythms for Latin bands. He also toyed with the idea of becoming a dancer, performing in the neighborhood with his sister, Anna. The girls, Mr. Puente admitted in an interview in the autumn of his years, were ''nuts'' about him.
        But the music took precedence. Tito's big break came in the 40's, when the United Stated entered World War II. The drummer from the Machito Orchestra, one of the first bands to fuse jazz and Latin music, was drafted, and Tito took his place. A few years later, Tito dropped out of Central Commercial High in Manhattan; the band, he would say years later, would provide schooling.
        Mr. Puente served in the Navy during World War II. His was not an uneventful war; he served in nine battles, later receiving a presidential commendation.
        He also suffered a personal loss: his sister died.
        His music education, however, continued. Mr. Puente met the jazz trumpeter Charlie Spivak on the aircraft carrier Santee, and Mr. Spivak taught him jazz arranging.
        After the war Mr. Puente studied at the Juilliard School of Music under the G.I. Bill. But the school's emphasis on classical music made him restless. In 1948 he started his own band, the Piccadilly Boys. Later, saying he did not want a band whose name could be confused with something on the menu (picadillo is a meat and potato hash), he changed the name to the Tito Puente Orchestra.
        His early distinctive touch, putting percussion in front, happened by necessity.
        ''The pretty boys were always in front, the percussion always in the back,'' Mr. Puente said in an interview with The Toronto Star. ''But the frontmen needed to get their rhythm cues from the percussion, and someone suggested putting the rhythm in front instead. Now everyone does it.''
        Mr. Puente's first hit, ''Abaniquito,'' came one year later. By the early 50's the band had become the Tito Puente Orchestra and was packing them in at New York's Palladium. Mambo was king, and Tito Puente was king of mambo, recording dance favorites like ''Barbarabatiri,'' ''El Rey del Timbal'' and ''Mambo Gallego.'' In the late 50's, Mr. Puente was fusing cha-cha -- the hot Latin cross-over dance of the Catskills -- with big band compositions. The people who heard Mr. Puente play the Palladium still get excited when they recall his sound.
        ''He was a genius, okay? The man who made you get up out of your chair no matter who you were and dance,'' said Cuban Pete Aguilar, who knew Mr. Puente when he was a boy, drumming in the basement in El Barrio and who would years later be the choreographer for ''The Mambo Kings.'' ''There was a rivalry between him and another orchestra leader, Tito Rodriguez, and when the two of them got together to outdo each other, when they got up and played their hearts out, let's just say the world knew they were playing.''
        In the 60's Mr. Puente began to collaborate with other New York musicians, including Celia Cruz, who would become the Queen of Latin Music to his King, with the trombonist Buddy Morrow, with Woody Herman. In 1963 he recorded ''Oye Como Va,'' which 12 years later would be a hit for Carlos Santana. In 1968, Mr. Puente had his own television show, on Hispanic television, ''The World of Tito Puente.''
        The 70's were a down time for Mr. Puente.
        ''It was kind of a boogaloo era, and there were some other nonmusical fads, and he had to do things to keep up with the Jones that were not so good for his records,'' said Johnny Rodriguez, Mr. Puente's longtime road manager.
        But in the 80's, and particularly in the 90's, he was coming back. He recorded with the jazz musicians Phil Woods, George Shearing, James Moody, Dave Valentin, Hilton Ruiz and Terry Gibbs; he and his band often performed with symphony orchestras.
        He also became a sort of symbol of the New York Puerto Rican identity, marching prominently in Puerto Rican parades. In 1995 Mr. Puente opened a popular 250-seat restaurant on City Island.
        The Oscar Hijuelos novel ''The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love,'' which became the film ''The Mambo Kings,'' also offered sweet vindication. In that story two Cuban brothers move to New York in the 50's and form a mambo band; Mr. Puente is portrayed as the King, the center of the mambo universe.
        ''I never thought playing in those places, writing that music, experiencing it all, that there would be a movie of it,'' Mr. Puente said in The Times. ''It's a place and time that has really been overlooked.''
        And on a more personal note: ''I'm finally getting some due. It's too bad it happened at this stage in my life, but better now than never.''
        Mr. Puente's personal life, as befitting a big band leader, was not tame. During the war, on leave, he married a longtime girlfriend, Mirta Sanchez. In 1947 they had a son, Ronald. The marriage ended in divorce. Today both live in New York.
        In the 50's, Mr. Puente also had a longtime relationship with Ida Carlini, a dancer, now living in Miami, who says she met Mr. Puente at the Palladium as a girl of 15. (''An Abby Lane type, gorgeous,'' one Palladium regular recalls, still smitten many decades later.) Their son, Richard Anthony Puente, was born in 1953. He became a musician.
        There followed a 30-year relationship with Margaret Acencio, with whom Mr. Puente had a son, Tito Puente Jr., a musician, and a daughter, Audrey Puente, a weather forecaster at Channel 4. Ms. Acencio and Mr. Puente were married, Mr. Puente told The Times, ''four or five years'' ago, with their 28-year-old son and 30-year-old daughter serving as their parents' best man and maid of honor. There was no honeymoon.
        ''I have not taken a vacation in my whole life,'' Mr. Puente said in that talk four months ago. ''Let me ask you a question: Have you ever known a musician to take a vacation? You know when you're on vacation? When the phone don't ring.''
        Mr. Puente, in that conversation, was happy, his spirits high. He was recording, he believed, his 119th record. He said he felt wonderful -- like a 12-year-old kid.
        Asked in that conversation what the King might want as his obituary, he couldn't be bothered to give it a serious thought.
        Or maybe he did.
        ''Nuthin','' Mr. Puente said, in that perfectly paced, musician's rhythm. Then, laughing, which he liked very much to do, ''Or maybe put a pair of timbales on my grave.''
      