
        Milton E. Krents, a broadcast executive who produced the religious drama and discussion series ''The Eternal Light'' on NBC radio and television for the Jewish Theological Seminary of America, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Krents received a lifetime achievement award in 1989 from the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences for his role in producing ''The Eternal Light'' from its inception in 1944 until 1989. His other honors included a Media Arts award and medal in 1991 from the National Foundation for Jewish Culture.
        Mr. Krents was also the director of radio and television at the American Jewish Committee. He directed the committee's William E. Wiener Oral History Library, now part of the New York Public Library.
        By early 1979 ''The Eternal Light'' on radio was broadcasting's oldest continuous drama series. George Gent wrote in The New York Times in 1963 that the series, which won a Peabody Award that year, had pioneered religious dramas on radio and had remained ''faithful to its original concept of providing literate and dramatic programs while avoiding sermonizing and sectarianism.'' Its dramas ranged from biblical tales to the lives of illustrious contemporaries.
        In 1963 the radio program had a weekly audience of four million and received 4,000 letters a week. It was carried on 100 stations nationwide. The series also provided eight dramas for NBC-TV during November and December and two television specials for Passover and the High Holy Days.
        The programs came to include other fare, like interviews and discussions on ethics involving Protestant and Catholic clergy members as well as Jewish ones.
        Mr. Krents was born and grew up in Springfield, Mass., and earned a bachelor's degree in 1935 from New York University.
        He is survived by his wife, Irma; a son, Lawrence B., of Amelia Island, Fla.; a daughter, Elisabeth Zuckerwise of Manhattan; two brothers, Mac, of Washington, and David, of Hollywood, Fla., and eight grandchildren.
        Mr. Krents's other son, Harold, who was blind from birth, became a lawyer and an advocate for the disabled. His life was dramatized in the Broadway play ''Butterflies Are Free,'' which was made into a film starring Goldie Hawn. He died in 1986.
      