
        Don Liddle, the New York Giants left-hander who threw the pitch that produced Willie Mays's sensational catch in deepest center field at the Polo Grounds in the 1954 World Series, died on Monday at his home in Mount Carmel, Ill. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        He had an otherwise unremarkable major league career -- 28 victories over four seasons -- but one pitch enmeshed Liddle in an epic baseball moment, a few seconds re-lived on film for generations of baseball fans.
        It was the afternoon of Sept. 29, 1954, Game 1 of the World Series between the Giants and the Cleveland Indians, who had won an American League-record 111 games.
        Liddle was brought in by Manager Leo Durocher to relieve Sal Maglie in the eighth inning with the score tied at 2-2, Larry Doby on second base, Al Rosen on first and nobody out. He faced Vic Wertz, a left-handed-batting first baseman, who already had three hits, including a first-inning triple giving the Indians a 2-0 lead.
        Wertz drove Liddle's first pitch to the deep expanse of the Polo Grounds, just to the right of dead center field. Mays, racing toward the high green boarding with his back to home plate, caught the ball over his left shoulder some 450 feet away, cupping it like a football player snaring a pass. Then he whirled and threw to second base, his cap flying off, to keep Rosen on first as Doby tagged and went to third.
        Liddle's day was done. Marv Grissom, a right-hander, relieved him and got the Giants out of the inning with the score still tied. In the 10th inning, Dusty Rhodes, a journeyman outfielder, hit a three-run pinch-hit homer down the short right-field line to give the Giants a 5-2 victory.
        Returning in Game 4 as the Giants' starter, Liddle pitched into the seventh inning and was the winning pitcher in a 7-4 victory that completed an improbable World Series sweep.
        Liddle, a native of Mount Carmel, pitched seven seasons in the minors before making his major league debut with the Milwaukee Braves in 1953, compiling a 7-6 record. He went to the Giants in February 1954 in a six-player trade in which the Braves got Bobby Thomson, whose playoff-winning home run at the Polo Grounds in 1951 against the Brooklyn Dodgers produced the ultimate moment in Polo Grounds drama.
        Liddle had a 9-4 record for the Giants in 1954, a 10-4 mark in 1955, then was traded to the Cardinals in June 1956. He retired after the '56 season with a 28-18 record and returned to Mount Carmel, where he worked as a supervisor in a tool factory.
        He is survived by four sons, Kevin and Kim, of Mount Carmel; Craig, of Salem, Ill., and Donald Jr., of Princeton, Ind; a daughter, Tamara Liddle Zenthoefer, of Mount Carmel; a sister, Gladys Liddle Boyd, of Tallahassee, Fla.; 10 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. His wife, Margaret, died in 1996.
        The glove that Mays wore when he made the memorable catch found its way to the Liddle family.
        Liddle's son Craig said he got the glove from Mays when he visited the Giants' clubhouse at Sportsman's Park in St. Louis as a 5-year-old in the spring of 1955.
        As he recalled: ''Willie came up to me and said, 'I understand you need a glove to play baseball.' He gave me a glove and said it was the one he used in 1954 and part of 1955, and because he had broken in a new glove and was finally comfortable with it, I could have the old one.
        ''Willie said, 'You take care of it and it will take care of you.' ''
        The glove was a Rawlings HH, the same model that Liddle had worn in the 1954 World Series.
        Craig Liddle wore the Mays glove in Little League games, then put it away for safekeeping. In 1992, he loaned it to the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y., where it remains on display. Through the years, Liddle and Mays remained in touch by exchanging Christmas cards.
        Mays and Rhodes may have been the World Series heroes for most Giant fans, but in Mount Carmel, Liddle had been the man of the hour. He received a red convertible when he went home that October for his winning effort in Game 4.
        But Liddle had evidently been pleased with his performance in Game 1 as well. When Grissom replaced him after he weathered Wertz's enormous drive, Liddle told Grissom, ''I got my man.''
      