
        Lt. Gen. Thomas W. Kelly, who was the voice and face of the Army for millions of Americans in daily news briefings on  the Persian Gulf war, died on Tuesday at his home in Clifton, Va. He was 67.
        The cause was liver cancer, said his daughter, Elizabeth O'Leary.
        As the director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff under Gen. Colin L. Powell during the gulf war, General Kelly played a major role in regulating the flow of news from the military to the public via the news media.
        Pentagon officials defended the policy as necessary to protect American forces in the field; news executives and reporters criticized it as too restrictive and self-serving.
        Known for injecting his news briefings with bluntness and flashes of wit, General Kelly also laced them with humor. The press corps grew to respect and admire him for his ability to politely avoid answering questions that the Pentagon believed might compromise national security.
        Asked in one briefing whether sending B-52 bombers to attack a single Scud missile site was comparable to killing a fly with a sledge hammer, he replied, ''My own personal opinion is that's a delightful way to kill a fly.''
        In addition to his responsibilities with the news media, the general helped plan the operation known as Desert Storm, and the military action in Panama that removed Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega from office.
        Administration officials said they had failed to anticipate the power of the Pentagon briefings over public  opinion. But once they recognized the briefings' influence, they capitalized on the situation by staging elaborate rehearsals for key Pentagon briefers, including General Kelly, who once asked an aide ''if they'd passed out the questions in advance'' to the journalists, because it seemed the reporters were simply reading them back to him.
        ''I think the press needs to step back and reflect on how they cover things,'' General Kelly said in an interview with The New York Times on his retirement in 1991, adding that in World War II, for example, ''the security of the force was absolutely accepted by all correspondents covering the war.''
        Born in Philadelphia on Nov. 16, 1932, Thomas William Kelly chose the Army over a career in journalism after receiving a bachelor of science degree from Temple University. He joined the Reserve Officers Training Corps at Temple and was commissioned in the Army in 1957.
        ''I come from a newspaper family,'' he said. ''My father, my grandfather, my uncle and my mother all worked at The Philadelphia Inquirer.''
        General Kelly retired in April 1991, after 34 years of military service and after serving in a wide variety of assignments and posts, including tours as war plans officer for NATO forces in Southern Europe; director of the special operation agency for the Joint Chiefs of Staff; commanding general of Army security affairs; commander of Fort Dix, N.J.; and as a tank commander at Fort Knox, Ky.
        He studied at the United States War College and served in Vietnam in 1967 and 1968. In those years, he was operations officer with the First Infantry Division, known as the Big Red One. He commanded units from a cavalry platoon to a tank brigade; while aboard Army helicopters in Vietnam, he was shot down several times by enemy fire and wounded.
        General Kelly's military awards and decorations included the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, the Army Distinguished Service Medal, three awards of the Legion of Merit, the Distinguished Flying Cross, five Bronze Stars with a ''V'' insignia for service in combat, as well as the Purple Heart. In 1995, he was presented the American Legion's Distinguished Service Medal.
        After retiring, General Kelly worked as a professional speaker and served on the board of the Enron Corporation. He joined the Wing Group of Houston and Aspen, Colo., in 1993, serving as the company's president and vice chairman. The company sought to build natural gas power plants in China, the Middle East, Europe, Turkey, Pakistan and Egypt.
        In addition to his daughter, of Manassas, Va., the general is survived by his wife, Dorothy of Clifton, whom he married in 1957; two sons, Francis, of Jacksonville, Fla., and Vincent, of Clifton; and four grandchildren.
      