
        Bill Thomas, an Academy Award-winning costume designer with more than 300 films to his credit, died May 30 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79.
        Mr. Thomas shared an Oscar with Valles for costume design on the film ''Spartacus,'' released in 1960. Mr. Thomas was responsible for Jean Simmons's wardrobe. But he was a versatile designer who was nominated 10 times for Academy Awards for best costume design.
        He created the clown costume for Judy Garland in ''The Pirate'' in 1948, dressed Lana Turner in haute couture style for ''By Love Possessed'' in 1961 and created the garments of the dystopic future of ''Logan's Run'' in 1976. Robert Redford wore his contemporary clothing in ''Inside Daisy Clover'' in 1965, as did Bill Cosby and Elliott Gould in ''The Devil and Max Devlin'' in 1981.
        ''It's not that other designers can't do it, but that they tend to become specialized and cemented to certain periods in time,'' said Maggie Murray, museum director at the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising in Los Angeles. ''On a really big epic, such as 'Cleopatra' or 'Spartacus,' it was not unusual to have separate designers for the men and women.''
        The problem for Mr. Thomas in designing for ''Spartacus,'' or any designer working on a historical drama, was to be comfortable enough with the period to ''fake it,'' Ms. Murray said. ''It has to look authentic but still acceptable to the contemporary eye.''
        Stars enjoyed working with Mr. Thomas. This comfort extended off the screen; he created dresses for the private wardrobes of stars like Helen Reddy and Kim Novak.
        William Thomas Petersen was born Oct. 13, 1920, in Chicago and reared in San Marino, Calif., a suburb of Los Angeles. He first became interested in design as a child, said his cousin, Beverly Nairne.
        ''His father worked for a printing company, so there was always different kinds of paper around the house, different colors and very pretty,'' she said. ''Billy would design dresses for my paper dolls.''
        He majored in drama at the University of Southern California and studied at the Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles. He served as a supply sergeant in the Army Air Corps during World War II and designed costumes for U.S.O. shows.
        After the war he worked at Western Costume, which provided movie wardrobes, before becoming an apprentice to Irene, the MGM costume designer, and to Walter Plunkett, who specialized in historical design and created the wardrobe for ''Gone with the Wind.''
        In this period Mr. Thomas dropped ''Petersen'' from his name and became known professionally as Bill Thomas.
        He has no known survivors.
        In a 1968 interview Mr. Thomas offered some fashion advice: ''Too many women allow their clothing to wear them. Fashion should only complement the woman. The greatest compliment a woman can receive is, 'How nice you look,' not, 'What a terrific hat.' ''
      