
        Jack Kroll, an editor, critic and writer for Newsweek magazine for more than 35 years, died yesterday in New York. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from colon cancer, said his wife, Joan Engels.
        In an age of journalistic specialization, Mr. Kroll was a polymath of the arts. At various times at Newsweek he was an art critic and drama critic, reviewed movies and books and occasionally covered dance. For years, as a senior editor, he also edited the cultural sections of the magazine and wrote cover stories about people and trends in the arts. As a critic he was an intellectual and an enthusiast. Among his many attributes, he was an expert on jazz and popular culture. A passionate sports fan, he also found time to write about his favorite athletes.
        Although he was committed to experimentation in the arts, he would also assert his iconoclasm, as in his review of Jean Genet's play, ''The Screens.'' Commenting on Genet's ''exalted degradation,'' he suggested, ''We need an anti-Genet of genius to show us how powerful and transcendent, how hair-raising and sexy true goodness can be.'' He won the George Jean Nathan Award for Dramatic Criticism in 1980.
        He was born in Manhattan. His father, Lester Kroll, was a radio personality under the name of John J. Anthony, ''Mr. Anthony'' on the long-running program ''The Goodwill Hour.'' Mr. Anthony took his radio name from his two sons, John (Jack) and Anthony. Jack Kroll's mother was an Earl Carroll showgirl.
        Mr. Kroll spent two years in the Army during the Korean War and graduated from City College of New York. He was a copywriter at the Benton & Bowles advertising agency, and then became an art critic for Art News. Thomas Hess, the editor of Art News, recommended him to Kermit Lansner, an editor of Newsweek.
        In 1963 he began working at Newsweek as an art critic, and he was soon also an editor. For several decades the arts sections represented his taste, which was catholic and found room for innovation. In painting, he was a great admirer of Abstract Expressionism and Pop Art; in theater, Sam Shepard as well as classics. For many years Newsweek, along with Time, did not individually identify reviewers. Mr. Kroll was instrumental in Newsweek's decision to place bylines on reviews.
        In addition to his wife, a photo editor at Newsweek, he is survived by twins from his first marriage, Lawrence, of Irvine, Calif., and Sue, of Los Angeles, and a granddaughter.
        In 1973, Mr. Kroll edited a special issue of Newsweek devoted to ''Arts in America,'' which won a National Magazine Award. In an essay in that issue, he wrote: ''Art's natural enemy -- and man's -- is chaos. Today art is our most advanced attempt to map out our chaos so we can avoid disappearing into it.''
      