
        Ed Clark, the veteran Life photographer who soon after President Franklin D. Roosevelt's death caught a nation's grief in the tear-stained face of a Navy bandsman playing an accordion salute, died on Saturday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 88.
        During his long career, Mr. Clark charmed his way into the good graces of presidents and politicians, movie stars and farm workers. ''His photographs will remain an important part of the way we see history,'' said Barbara Baker Burrows, picture editor for special projects at Life. ''He hung out with presidents -- that's why he got the pictures he got.''
        Mr. Clark photographed a cheerful President Harry S. Truman taking a walk. He did a portrait of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, using one of Mathew Brady's wet-plate cameras.
        After he had covered John F. Kennedy for a few weeks during his presidential campaign, the senator invited Mr. Clark to lunch at his Georgetown house. Mr. Clark asked to see the new addition to the household. Mrs. Kennedy said Caroline was asleep, but Mr. Kennedy took Mr. Clark to the nursery, where he was able to photograph the wide-eyed baby and her smiling father.
        Mr. Clark, who was born in Nashville on July 3, 1911, dropped out of high school to join The Nashville Tennessean as a staff photographer. In 1936 he became a stringer for Life, and in 1944 he joined its staff.
        He was in Nashville when he received a phone call from New York asking him to get to Warm Springs, Ga.: Roosevelt had just died there. Mr. Clark drove all night, he said. At the train station, where the caisson carrying the president's body was to be transported to Washington, Mr. Clark heard an accordion. He turned and saw a weeping Navy bandsman, Graham Jackson, playing ''Goin' Home,'' a Roosevelt favorite. Among the swarm of photographers in Warm Springs, Mr. Clark was the only newsman to spot the grief-stricken musician.
        After Mr. Clark left Life in 1961, he accepted assignments from various magazines.
        He is survived by his wife, Joyce; a son, Tom, of Frederick, Md.; a sister, Nellie Dunlap of Nashville; two grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      