
        Jeff MacNelly, who skewered presidents, politicians and the pompous in editorial cartoons that won him three Pulitzer Prizes, died yesterday in Baltimore. Mr. MacNelly, who was also the creator of the syndicated comic strip ''Shoe,'' lived in Flint Hill, Va. He was 52.
        He had been under treatment for lymphoma since last year.
        Although Mr. MacNelly, who worked for The Chicago Tribune, announced in January that he would reduce his output while undergoing treatment, he continued to produce ''Shoe'' and his editorial cartoons until his death.
        Last month, in ''Microgoose,'' a cartoon about the government's lawsuit against Miscrosoft, he depicted the government as an ax-wielding executioner labeled ''Feds.'' Holding a severed, bespectacled goose head above a goose torso not far from a carton labeled ''Antitrust,'' Feds tells the head, ''We want you to lay smaller eggs and make 'em square, so they fit in the box.''
        With Pat Oliphant and Garry Trudeau, Mr. MacNelly was regarded as one of the nation's foremost political cartoonists, a profession that calls for the combined talents of artist, social critic, political analyst and humorist.
        He was only 24 and had worked for The Richmond News Leader for little more than 16 months when he won the 1972 Pulitzer Prize for editorial cartooning. He won again with The News Leader in 1978 and with The Tribune in 1985.
        Characteristic of the cartoons in his second prize-winning portfolio was one that showed an Internal Revenue Service Form 1040 asking the taxpayer how many talking chickens he owned and whether any of them played the oboe.
        In 1981 Mr. MacNelly abandoned editorial cartooning to devote himself full time to ''Shoe,'' the comic strip he created in 1977. It dealt with P. Martin Shoemaker, the irascible, cigar-chomping editor of a daily newspaper called The Treetops Tattler, and its staff of disheveled hacks. All of them were birds.
        Mr. MacNelly said he originally drew humans, ''but it was terribly boring.''
        But by 1982, while continuing ''Shoe,'' Mr. MacNelly had decided to return to editorial cartooning, and he joined The Tribune.
        ''I thought that through the strip I could vent my spleen and be funny at the same time,'' he said. ''But when it comes to humor, there's no substitute for reality and politicians.''
        He also illustrated the syndicated column of the humorist Dave Barry.
        Besides his Pulitzer Prizes, Mr. MacNelly twice won the Reuben Award, the highest accolade of the National Cartoonists Society.
        Jeffrey K. MacNelly, who was born in New York City, was reared in Cedarhurst, on Long Island. The son of a portrait painter, Clarence L. MacNelly, he attended the University of North Carolina, where he worked on The Daily Tar Heel for Jim Shumaker, now a professor, for whom he named ''Shoe.''
        Mr. MacNelly dropped out of college to take a $120-a-week job on The Chapel Hill Weekly before joining The Richmond News Leader.
        He is survived by his wife, Susan, and two sons, Danny and Matt. Another son, Jeffrey Jr., a 24-year-old editorial cartoonist for The Aspen Times, died in 1996 of injuries sustained in a rock-climbing accident.
      