
        George Segal, whose rough-surfaced casts of actual people brought a new, often eerie realism to postwar sculpture and made him one of the most quietly influential artists of his time, died yesterday at his home in South Brunswick, N.J. He was 75 years old and had lived in South Brunswick for 60 years.
        Along with Claes Oldenburg, Mr. Segal was often considered one of the pre-eminent sculptors of Pop Art. But Mr. Oldenburg and Pop art painters like Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein and James Rosenquist found inspiration in the products of popular culture, be they comics, magazine ads, movie-star photographs or hamburgers. In contrast, Mr. Segal fixed his gaze on the ordinary consumers of that culture and through his use of the full-body plaster cast, devised a way to incorporate them into his work virtually warts and all. His influence can be traced through several generations of figurative sculpture, some of it cast, some of it meticulously handmade, by American artists like Duane Hanson, Charles Ray, Robert Gober, John Ahearn and Kiki Smith.
        A casual, approachable man known for his sense of humor, Mr. Segal worked for much of his career in a 300-foot-long former chicken coop on his family's farm near South Brunswick, N.J. There he applied Johnson & Johnson cotton bandages dipped in plaster to the faces and forms of sundry family members, friends and neighbors. His wife, Helen, whom he married in 1946, was one of his most frequent subject models, having first sat for her husband in the 1940's and 50's when he was still a painter.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Segal is survived by a daughter, Rena, of Somerset, N.J., a son, Jeffrey, of Vineland, N.J., and his brother, Morris, of North Brunswick.
        To create appropriate settings for his figures, Mr. Segal developed what he called ''assembled environments'' by incorporating, uncast, props like chairs, tables, beds or a pinball machine; sections of cars, school buses and even a subway car and a butcher shop window as well as brick walls, gas pumps and windows. He paired a full-length portrait of his dealer, Sidney Janis, with one of the Mondrian paintings that Mr. Janis owned. (Mr. Janis commissioned the work and at his death bequeathed it to the Museum of Modern Art.) And for a 1965-67 portrait of the sculptor John Chamberlain, he showed the sculptor wielding the chunks of automobile bodies from which he, Mr. Chamberlain, made his own work.
        Mr. Segal's tableaus were emotionally confounding, at once deeply familiar in their forms and subjects, yet ghostly and strange in their stillness. To a great extent, these works had an emotional resonance that was alien to Pop Art and that reflected Mr. Segal's beginnings as an expressionist painter. His tableaus also connected to several long-running artistic traditions, most notably a strain of understated American realism that included Thomas Eakins, Walker Evans and Edward Hopper; the 20th-century evolution of collage and assemblage as practiced by Kurt Schwitters, Joseph Cornell and Robert Rauschenberg, and finally, the history of figurative sculpture that reached from Rodin back to the Greeks. More than one observer also likened them to the monochromatic figure casts created by archaeologists to record the postures of Romans found at Pompeii.
        Over the course of his career, Mr. Segal did not veer too far from his original and rather simple formula, yet it seemed to be capable of almost infinite variation and elaboration. He sometimes reduced his figures to shallow paintinglike reliefs, or zeroed in on his subjects, making busts, or isolating an arm or leg from which the viewer extrapolated the body.
        Starting in the 1970's, he sometimes painted the figures and their settings in bright, flat colors, giving them a visual vibrancy that again reflected his roots in painting. (His painting background was also manifest in the robustly worked pastels that he made throughout his career and that occasionally showed up in his tableaus). The figurative nature of his work also allowed him to revisit traditional themes, starting with ''The Legend of Lott'' from 1966 and including a public commission, ''In Memory of May 4, 1970, Kent State: Abraham and Isaac'' of 1980, at Princeton University.
        Public and outdoor commissions became possible in the 1970's when he turned to casting in bronze, which he often finished in white to resemble plaster. Other public works include  ''Gay Liberation,'' a portrayal of two same-sex couples installed in Christopher Park in Greenwich Village that commemorates the Stonewall riot there; and ''The Holocaust, a work incorporating both standing and fallen figures and a barbed wire fence created for Golden Gate Park in San Francisco in 1983. He also created the three large tableaus for the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial in Washington: ''Depression Breadline,'' ''Appalachian Farm Couple'' and ''Fireside Chat.''
        As these works suggest, a strong sense of social conscience was another thing that separated Mr. Segal from the Pop artists.
        Mr. Segal was born in the Bronx in 1926, the son of Jacob Segal, whose small kosher butcher shop his son memorialized in one of his sculptures. In 1940 he moved with his family to the South Brunswick farm where he lived until the end of his life. His father had decided to try his hand at chicken farming.
        Mr. Segal studied art at the Cooper Union Art School, Pratt Institute, New York University, Rutgers and the State University of New Jersey, where he earned a bachelor's degree in art education in 1950 and a master's degree in fine art in 1963. He also studied with Hans Hofmann and several other Abstract Expressionist painters, but was untempted. ''I couldn't divorce myself from the sensual things of life -- things I could touch,'' he later explained.
        Like many artists who came of age in the mid-1950's, Mr. Segal began his career as a painter, edging toward sculpture almost unconsciously. Pressure came from the dominance of Abstract Expressionist painting and from a growing interest in reality, in the potential for using objects and events that existed outside art that was already evident in the work of Jasper Johns and Mr. Rauschenberg.
        Mr. Segal may also have been pushed toward reality by his friendship with Allan Kaprow, one of the inventors of the multimedia events called Happenings, whom he met at Rutgers. Mr. Kaprow staged the first such event at Mr. Segal's farm in 1958.
        In that year Mr. Segal began making sculpture out of chicken wire and plaster. He later wrote that he did so out of ''a need to achieve my own grasp of pictorial space  . . . what would happen if I ventured into real space?'' He hit upon the idea of the plaster casts in 1960, when one of his students brought him a large supply of medical scrim used by physicians in making casts for broken bones. He was his own first subject, having his wife wrap him in the plaster-soaked gauze, and ended up with a sculpture that he later titled ''Man at a Table.'' He wasn't quite sure that he was making sculpture. ''People call what I created sculpture,'' he wrote. ''But my own reaction to it is as to the presence of man in his daily life.''
        He initially thought that this new process would be direct and easy, rather like taking a photograph. But he soon found it necessary to work  every square inch of surface of the plaster, not unlike a painter, both as it was drying on the sitter and afterward, to get the effect he wanted. In an interview, he once attributed the unusual emotional reality of his figures to the fatigue of his models. ''To hold a pose for 40 minutes, you can't be in a social or artificial posture,'' he said. ''Then the body reveals certain truths about itself.''
        During the 1950's, Mr. Segal had had several solo shows at the Hansa Gallery, an artists' cooperative near 57th Street. He had met with little success and resigned himself to a life of teaching art. But his new sculpture caught on. In 1960 he had the first of three solo shows at the Green Gallery, run by the perceptive dealer Richard Bellamy, who showed  younger artists interested in bringing new physical realities to their work. They included Mr. Oldenburg and Mr. Chamberlain, and also Dan Flavin, Donald Judd, Yayoi Kusama, Lee Bontecou and Lucas Samaras.
        In 1962 Mr. Segal was included in ''New Realists,'' an important group  show that helped anoint Pop art, at the Sidney Janis Gallery. From 1965 onward he was represented by the Janis Gallery. He was soon successful enough to give up teaching.
        Mr. Segal was the recipient of many awards and honors, including the Premium Imperiale from Japan in 1998 and a National Medal of the Arts in 1999. The list of museums that own his work, nearly three pages long and divided according to continents, attests concisely to the broad appeal of his art. As he put it, ''I count heavily on the human ability to spot metaphor. The urge to read poetry into things is universal.''
      