
        Irving Goldstein, a communications executive who oversaw the privatization of government-owned satellites, died on May 26 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 62 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md., and New York.
        The cause was esophageal cancer, said his wife, Susan Wallack Goldstein.
        A native of New York State, Mr. Goldstein moved to Washington after graduating from New York University School of Law in 1963. He spent most of his career at the Communications Satellite Corporation, the government-created company known as Comsat. Mr. Goldstein became its chief executive in 1985, leading it through a period of steady growth and diversifying its holdings to include overseas satellite companies and even a professional basketball team.
        Mr. Goldstein retired from Comsat in 1992 and become the director general of the International Telecommunications Satellite Organization. The organization, called Intelsat, is a consortium of more than 100 countries that operates a network of satellites that carry television signals, telephone calls and Internet traffic.
        Mr. Goldstein spent much of his six and a half years at Intelsat lobbying its members to approve a privatization plan that he believed would allow the organization to compete against the growing number of satellite companies, said Allison Barr, a spokeswoman for Intelsat. The group spun off five of its satellites into a private company in 1998, Ms. Barr said, and plans to become fully private next year. Mr. Goldstein retired from Intelsat in October 1998.
        The son of a homemaker and a shipping manager for a lingerie company, Mr. Goldstein grew up in Catskill, N.Y., on the west bank of the Hudson River about 120 miles north of New York City, and attended the tiny high school in the town, Mrs. Goldstein said. Before pursuing his law degree, he attended Queens College and majored in political science.
        All the while, he worked on the side to help pay family bills and tuition. In high school, he played clarinet and saxophone and started a band called the Quarternotes. In college, he drove a taxi in Manhattan.
        After law school, he and his wife, a native of Long Island, decided they wanted to live somewhere besides New York, she said, and Mr. Goldstein accepted a job at the Federal Communications Commission. That led to a job in Comsat's legal department, and he soon moved to Geneva to become the director of the company's European office.
        Under Mr. Goldstein, Comsat bought a stake in the Denver Nuggets basketball team, and then the entire franchise, as a way to own some of the programming its satellites would carry, said Maury J. Mechanick, a vice president at Comsat. And at Intelsat, Mr. Goldstein pushed the organization to make its satellites able to carry Internet traffic, and they became among the first to do so, Ms. Barr said.
        Mr. Goldstein is survived by his wife, who is an actress; two daughters, Elizabeth, of London, and Jill, of Coral Gables, Fla.; a brother, Arthur, of Houston; a sister, Dale, of Cottonwood, Calif.; and his father, Hyman, also of Houston.
      