
        Henry Pleasants, a music critic, author and translator, died at a hospital in London on Jan. 4. He was 89 and lived in London.
        Mr. Pleasants was best known for his books about the voice, which he loved, and contemporary music, about which he had become disillusioned in the early 1950's. His first book, ''The Agony of Modern Music'' (1955), was a polemical study that became the subject of heated debate in the new music world.
        In the book, Mr. Pleasants issued a stark challenge to the world of contemporary composition. ''Serious music is a dead art,'' he began by writing. ''The vein which for 300 years offered a seemingly inexhaustible yield of beautiful music has run out. What we know as modern music is the noise made by deluded speculators picking through the slag pile.''
        Mr. Pleasants closed the book with the contention that the only real modern music was jazz, a theme he developed further in ''Death of a Music?'' and ''Serious Music and All That Jazz.''
        Among his books about vocal music were ''The Great Singers: From the Dawn of Opera to Our Own Time,'' a 1966 survey that has become a standard reference work; ''The Great American Popular Singers''; and ''Opera in Crisis.'' His last book was ''The Great Tenor Tragedy: The Last Days of Adolphe Nourrit,'' a 19th-century tenor for whom Rossini wrote several roles.
        Mr. Pleasants was born in Wayne, Pa., in 1910 and studied at the Philadelphia Musical Academy and the Curtis Institute of Music. He began his writing career as a critic for The Philadelphia Evening Bulletin in 1930, when he was 19. He was the  music editor from 1935 to 1942, when he joined the Army. After World War II he was involved in the de-Nazification proceedings against several musicians who were prominently involved with the Third Reich, including the conductor Wilhelm Furtwangler and Walter Gieseking.
        Mr. Pleasants joined the United States Foreign Service in 1950 and held positions in Munich, Bern and Bonn until his retirement in 1954. From 1945 to 1955, he contributed articles about European music to The New York Times. After his retirement from the Foreign Service, he became the London editor of Stereo Review, and from 1967 to 1998 he was a music critic for The International Herald Tribune.
        He is survived by his wife, the harpsichordist Virginia Pleasants; two sisters, Constantia Bowditch of Peterborough, N.H., and Nancy Logue of Clarksville, Tenn.; and a brother, William, of Bethel, Del.
      