
        Lord MacLehose, a British diplomat and China scholar who was London's longest-serving governor of Hong Kong, from 1971 to 1982, died on May 27 in Ayrshire, Scotland. He was 82 and had run a sheep farm at Beoch outside Maybole since his retirement.
        His term as governor of Hong Kong spanned its transition from a backwater trading post to a fledgling economic powerhouse. The colony reverted to Chinese sovereignty in 1997, an event he had anticipated by working to clarify the ambiguous and often testy relationship between Britain and mainland China.
        His pragmatic, hands-on approach drew a tribute from Tung Chee-hwa, now the former colony's Beijing-sponsored chief executive, who said he was saddened by the death of a good friend of Hong Kong.
        Mr. Tung said his colonial predecessor had helped root out police corruption, build a mass transit system and provide public housing for those who lived in squalid shantytowns. He also was credited with improving social conditions for the poor and with curbing illegal immigration from mainland China.
        Lord MacLehose, a tall aristocratic Scotsman known as Big Mac, was remembered as well for instating free basic education and opening  the territory's countryside for  recreational use, although he was faulted by some for not moving  Hong Kong toward a degree of democracy.
        Crawford Murray MacLehose graduated from Oxford University and served in the navy in World War II before joining the foreign service.
        He was a Chinese linguist and in 1949 was posted to China where he witnessed the Communist Chinese victory from a consular post in Hankou.
        In 1963 he became a political adviser in Hong Kong, and was the Foreign Office's liaison to the territory's governor.
        He was ambassador to Vietnam from 1967 to 1969, and was ambassador to Denmark when he was given the governorship of Hong Kong, the first person chosen for that post from outside the Colonial Office.
        After his retirement in 1982 he was made a life peer, taking the title Baron MacLehose of Beoch.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Margaret Noel Dunlop, and two daughters.
      