
        Ted Graber, an interior decorator popular with affluent West Coast social figures who was chosen by Nancy Reagan to redecorate the family quarters of the White House, died June 3 in Sonoma, Calif. He was 80.
        Jean Mathison, his longtime assistant, said the cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Graber retired in 1989 and lived in an assisted living facility in Sonoma.
        Mr. Graber, whose career spanned more than four decades, was not considered an innovative designer but rather one whose work was described as Hollywood traditional,  traditional with a flamboyant edge.  Nevertheless, there was little flash in his work. His rooms generally conveyed a luxurious look and often combined modern furniture with antiques.
        Mr. Graber and his mentor and partner, the late William Haines, were credited with putting large windows in various forms into a number of the traditional Mediterranean-style West Coast houses, opening them to sunlight.
        His clients were a Who's Who of influential personalities, including Alfred and Betsy Bloomingdale and Walter and Lee Annenberg.
        He decorated the New York apartments of Hollywood figures like Jack Warner and Joan Crawford and was chosen by the Annenbergs to redo the United States Embassy residence in London when Mr. Annenberg was the ambassador to Great Britain. He also decorated Sunnyland, the Annenberg estate in Palm Springs, Calif.
        The extensive redecoration of the White House family quarters in 1981 cost an estimated $1 million, of which about $822,000 was paid for by tax-deductible donations. Almost one-third of the tax-deductible amount came from 23 people in the oil industry. Mr. Graber, who lived in the White House for almost a year, was quoted as attributing the cost to the fact that almost everything required attention, from the obsolete plumbing and wiring to the ''falling apart'' draperies. Little had been done since the era of Jacqueline Kennedy, about two decades earlier.
        The refurbished rooms included the Reagans' bedroom, which was done with hand-painted wallpaper depicting Chinese birds. The president's study was filled with family furniture, although Mr. Graber and Mrs. Reagan retrieved warehoused White House antiques, which were restored and used in other rooms.
        Architectural Digest, the magazine that at the time was allowed exclusive rights to photograph some of the rooms, quoted Mrs. Reagan as saying, ''This house belongs to all Americans, and I want it to be something of which they can be proud.''
        Mr. Graber's White House activities continued until the end of the Reagan administration. He worked on the decorations for major holidays and consulted on a number of state dinners, advising on everything from the menus to the table decorations.
        A native of Los Angeles, Mr. Graber spent a good part of his youth with his father, who was a cabinetmaker and an antiquarian. Mr. Graber studied at the Chouinard Art Institute in Los Angeles and served in the Army during World War II. He then joined Mr. Haines, who was already a well-known West Coast decorator. Mr. Haines died in 1973.
        Mr. Graber is survived by Arch Case of Mendocino, Calif., his companion of 40 years; and a brother, Raymond, of San Diego.
      