
        Bert C. Moore, who was one of the Americans held hostage in the United States Embassy in Teheran, Iran, died on Thursday at his home in Homosassa, Fla. He was 65.
        The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Moore was the administrative consul at the embassy when it was taken over by Iranian students on Nov. 4, 1979.
        In the first few days after the embassy was seized, secretaries were subjected to Russian roulette. Guns were held to the heads of Mr. Moore and other embassy officials at various times in their captivity. In one incident, Mr. Moore shouted defiantly, ''Go ahead and shoot, you bastards!'' His captors held their fire, and later, like dozens of other former hostages, he received the Department of State Award for Valor.
        Roughly 90 people were in the embassy when it was taken over after an Islamic revolutionary government had taken power in Iran earlier in 1979. Fifty-two, including Mr. Moore and Moorhead Kennedy, an economic officer, were held captive until Jan. 20, 1981.
        ''Like all of us, Bert Moore played his role in an important moment in history,'' Mr. Kennedy said. ''Somehow the memory of the hostage crisis never goes away.''
        For his service, Mr. Moore also received the Christian A. Herter Award for extraordinary contributions to diplomacy and a Presidential Meritorious Award.
        Born in Kentucky, he grew up in Ohio and received a bachelor's degree in education from Ohio State University and a master's degree in public administration from Syracuse University.
        After teaching history at a high school in Mount Vernon, Ohio, he joined the Foreign Service, serving in Canada, Rhodesia, Malawi, Zaire and France.
        He was transferred to Iran in July 1979. In later years he served in Spain, Nigeria, Indonesia and India. He retired in 1990.
        Surviving are his wife, Marjorie; three sons, David, Bob, and Charles; a daughter, Diane Wilkie; a brother, Raymond; a half-brother, Roby Watson Jr.; and five grandchildren.
      