
        Irving Anker, the courtly former New York City schools chancellor who guided the system through the city's fiscal crisis and the turmoil over integration in the mid-1970's, died on Monday at his home in Jamaica, Queens. He was 88.
        A soft-spoken career educator who worked his way up through the school system, Mr. Anker became its leader in 1973, when economic and racial struggles were roiling not only the schools but the entire city as well.
        One of his most complicated tasks was overseeing the decentralization of the school system, which started in 1969 when he was deputy chancellor under Harvey B. Scribner. The contentious process created 32 locally elected community school boards and shifted considerable power over elementary and middle schools from Board of Education headquarters to neighborhoods, where some residents saw the boards as a pathway to political office or an opportunity for patronage.
        Mr. Anker was more a product of the city school system than any other chancellor in its history. He was born on Oct. 27, 1911, in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn, to Austro-Hungarian immigrants, and attended public schools while his father worked as a tailor and his mother labored in an embroidery factory. He began his teaching career at Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn in 1934, after earning bachelor's and master's degrees from City College.
        Mr. Anker served as the chairman of social studies at Long Island City High School, and eventually became principal of Benjamin Franklin High School in East Harlem, where his dedication to integration and civil rights took shape. He was made a roving superintendent before being appointed assistant chancellor. His low-key style contrasted sharply with that of the flamboyant Mr. Scribner, who had been criticized by the teachers' union and others as an outsider (he came from Vermont) who did not understand the city's political and educational structures.
        The first major crisis that Mr. Anker faced as chancellor was associated with decentralization, a policy enacted by the State Legislature to give more educational representation to the city's growing minority communities. Shortly after taking office in 1974, Mr. Anker was forced to confront serious fiscal mismanagement in District 9 in the Bronx. He suspended the district's school board and appointed a trustee.
        The action provoked a sit-in by parents, but a state audit found improper hiring and millions of dollars in expenditures that could not be accounted for. Mr. Anker's critics saw his actions as a racially motivated assault on decentralization, but the fight over District 9 turned out to be only the opening skirmish in a battle that still continues.
        During his tenure, he investigated allegations of corruption and mismanagement in at least 7 of the 32 local districts. He sent monitors into some districts and began using his power to suspend local school boards or supersede their authority.
        ''Chancellor Anker navigated this system through the turbulent early days of decentralization with courage and tremendous wisdom,'' Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy said in a statement yesterday.
        By 1974, the city was in a fiscal crisis whose effects would be felt for years to come. The Board of Education, like other city agencies, was asked to propose cutbacks to ease the city's financial burden. But Mr. Anker refused to cooperate, and warned of devastating cuts in school services if the city did not back off.
        ''We can leave the car in the garage; we can do with less sugar,'' Mr. Anker said at the time. ''But we cannot write off the children of New York City without calling into question every value we live by.''
        But the board ended up having to cut its budget by $230 million, and had to dismiss 21,000 employees, more than half of them teachers. Class sizes, already large, increased. After-school programs, art and music classes and sports programs were almost completely obliterated.
        ''It was a gruesome period,'' said Bernard R. Gifford, who served as deputy chancellor under Mr. Anker. ''The climate was one of being punched in the nose every three weeks. But Irving was too much of a gentleman to complain about how unfair life was.''
        The United Federation of Teachers, under Albert Shanker, added to Mr. Anker's troubles in September 1975, when its members, angered by teacher layoffs and swelling class sizes, went on strike for five days. The strike ended when Mr. Anker and the Board of Education agreed to shorten the school day by 90 minutes, provoking protests from parents around the city.
        At the same time, Mr. Anker was struggling with the question of how to sustain integration of the city's schools as the population of black and Hispanic students grew to roughly 70 percent of the total and more white students left the system each year. He altered the attendance zones for high schools in Brooklyn, to make some more racially diverse and others less crowded. But that move drew heavy criticism from white families, many of whom took their children out of the system.
        In 1977, the federal government accused the Board of Education of discrimination in hiring, pointing out that the school system had a disproportionately low number of black and Hispanic teachers, and that those teachers had been assigned to schools with mostly black and Hispanic students. In response, Mr. Anker proposed broad changes to bring more minority teachers into the school system and avoid concentrating them in majority black and Hispanic schools.
        But critics accused the board of starting racial quotas, and Mr. Anker agreed that he was uncomfortable with the changes. He ended the policy of assigning teachers on the basis of race in 1978, just before he resigned.
        Mr. Anker was forced out that year by the newly elected mayor, Edward I. Koch, who chose Frank J. Macchiarola as chancellor. Mr. Anker retired. He later taught at a community college in Florida and at the Long Island University Graduate School of Education. He also wrote and consulted on education issues.
        Mr. Anker is survived by his wife, Sarah; two daughters, Deborah, of Boston, and Laura, of Easthampton, N.Y.; a son, Philip David, of Bethesda, Md.; and seven grandchildren. His three children attended public schools in New York City, and one of his granddaughters, Shanna Beth Schwartz, is now a teacher at Public School 116 in Manhattan.
        ''My father believed that your commitment to the system was demonstrated by the fact that you believed in it for your children,'' Laura Anker said on Monday.
      