
        Frederic G. Cassidy, a lexicographer who followed his love of folk language into the nooks and crannies of Jamaica's creole and across the linguistic expanses of the United States, died yesterday in Madison, Wis. He was 92.
        A professor of English at the University of Wisconsin, Mr. Cassidy became the editor of the Dictionary of American Regional English, a sprawling work in progress that documents in continental scope how words, from the familiar to the peculiar, are used by speakers all over the country.
        The project began more than a century ago at the instigation of members of the American Dialect Society, but it began to make real headway only after they recruited Mr. Cassidy to manage it in the mid-1960's. At the time he estimated that it would take five years to collect the raw material and perhaps another five to compile and publish the words and definitions. As it turned out, Volume I was issued to critical acclaim in 1985, and the staff is still working on Volume IV, which is to cover the letters P, Q, R and some of S.
        That volume's entries will include such items as ''rail-splitter,'' a noun meaning a rustic, and ''quill-wheel,'' a verb that can mean to roam about in the Ozarks, but to give up in Connecticut.
        His work made him in some sense the American equivalent of Sir James Murray of the Oxford English Dictionary, a big-game hunter of lexicography whose prey was nothing less than the entire language.
        To make order out of an evolving language's chaos, Mr. Cassidy armed his researchers with tape recorders and an elaborate list of 1,847 questions about what people call things, and sent them into the countryside. A typical question is what people call a heavy rain; a useful answer is a word like ''gullywasher.''
        It was his second such venture. His first was in the 1950's and 60's, when he traveled through his native Jamaica to research a single-volume dictionary of Jamaican English and Creole. He found people at work, cutting cane or making dugout canoes and recorded the words they used in their answers.
        ''I was the first person to take a tape recorder all the way around the island of Jamaica, that is, in 1952,'' he said. ''The tape recorders in those days were not like these delightful little cassettes that you can stick in your pocket. They weighed 40 pounds and you had to drag them around wherever you went.''
        He also needed heavy batteries and electrical converters. ''It all worked,'' he told an interviewer. ''But it was an awfully clumsy, cumbersome sort of thing.''
        For Mr. Cassidy, it was as close to pure pleasure as he could imagine, his daughter said recently. ''My father loved words from the moment he was a very small child,'' she said. ''He would write about all the different words for dust under the bed. When he was irritated he would say 'piffleberries,' and when children were sick he wondered if they had the 'collywobbles.' So he was able to follow his bliss and make a good living.''
        Frederic Gomes Cassidy was born on Oct. 10, 1907, in Kingston, Jamaica. His father was Canadian, his mother Jamaican. When he was 12 the family moved to Akron, Ohio, where he graduated from high school and began college at Akron University. Transferring to Oberlin College, he earned a bachelor's degree in 1930 and a master's in 1932. He received his doctorate in 1938 from the University of Michigan, where he married Helene Lucile Monod, a Frenchwoman and fellow student.
        His wife died in 1980. He is survived by a sister, Helen Cassidy of Boca Raton, Fla.; his four children:  Frederic, of Austin, Tex.; Victor, of Chicago; Michael, of Madison; and Claire of Bethesda, Md.; and seven grandchildren.
        Mr. Cassidy's teaching career began at Oberlin in 1930 and continued during his graduate studies at Michigan, a time when he also lectured at the University of Strasbourg in France. He came to the University of Wisconsin in 1939 and was named a full professor in 1949. He taught linguistics, the history of the English language, and archaic literary classics like ''The Canterbury Tales'' and ''Beowulf.''
        All the while, he was a scholar of words. As a student at Michigan he worked on the Early Modern English Dictionary. Later he did field work for the Linguistic Atlas of the Great Lakes and summer research on the Middle English Dictionary. His first book was about the place names of Dane County, Wis. He described the popular speech of his birthplace in Jamaica Talk in 1961 and in the Dictionary of Jamaican English in 1967. He received a Fulbright Research Fellowship, three medals from the Institute of Jamaica, and several honorary degrees.
        One of his linguistic monuments is a display at the museum at Ellis Island, listing the various words absorbed into American English from the languages of the immigrants who arrived there. One of Dr. Cassidy's favorite words was jerk, a word with a long history and many meanings. He devotes three pages of his dictionary to it.
        Choice Nuggets
        Here are some entries planned for Volume IV of the Dictionary of American Regional English (Harvard University Press), a decades-long project supervised by Frederic G. Cassidy that documents how words are or until recently were used by speakers across the United States:
        pinkletink -- A spring peeper (Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket, Mass.)
        pinto -- A homemade or expensive coffin (Coastal South Carolina and Georgia, among speakers of Gullah)
        potrero -- A pasture of naturally enclosed meadow (California)
        poule d'eau -- A coot (Louisiana)
        quill pig -- A porcupine (chiefly North, especially Northeast)
        quill wheel -- To roam about (Ozarks); also, to yield, give up, collapse (Connecticut)
        rail-splitter -- A rustic (especially South, South Midland)
        rolle bolle -- A game with similarities to bowling and horseshoes (Dutch and Belgian settlement areas)
        scaper -- A rascal, villain (chiefly Florida, Georgia)
        scat -- Gesundheit! (South, South Midland, Southwest)
        scuttle/scutty -- A trap door (New England, South, South Midland)
      