
        Garrett Eckbo, a pioneer of modern landscape design and a leading practitioner of California landscape architecture, died on May 15 at his home in Oakland. He was 89.
        Through a broad scope of designing work, from camps for migrant farm workers to estate gardens for Hollywood grandees, Mr. Eckbo helped establish modernist landscapes as a norm in gardening. His extensive writings, full of passionate belief in the public role of the landscape architect, are now considered important documents on the formative years of modern landscape architecture, with its emphasis on asymmetrical paved forms, native plantings and abstract sculptural elements.
        Mr. Eckbo was determined to educate students and the public about the significance of landscape design, ''beyond the confines of the private garden to the level of the housing complex, the waterfront and the city scale,'' in the words of George Hargreaves, chairman of the landscape architecture department at Harvard University's Graduate School of Design.
        Mr. Eckbo was born on Nov. 28, 1910, in Cooperstown, N.Y. The family soon moved West so that his father could pursue new business opportunities. Mr. Eckbo enrolled in Marin Junior College in Kentfield, Calif., transferring to the University of California at Berkeley in 1932. His decision to enroll in the landscape program, he said in later years, was almost random. ''I always liked to play with plants in the garden, and my mother told me I was artistic,'' he said.
        By 1936, he was on a scholarship at Harvard, chafing under the elaborately codified tradition of the Beaux-Arts approach to landscapes while students of architecture were pursuing modern concepts of dynamic flow and material innovation under the auspices of Walter Gropius and Laszlo Moholy-Nagy. Mr. Eckbo,  with his classmates and fellow renegades James Rose and Dan Kiley, started exploring ways to adapt modern principles borrowed from architecture, abstract painting and science to landscapes. He took architecture courses with Mr. Gropius and wrote a thesis called ''Contempoville: An Examination of the Planned American Suburb.''
        In 1937, he married Arline Williams, who survives him, with two daughters, Marilyn Kweskin and Alison Peper, both of Los Angeles.
        Mr. Eckbo's first jobs upon graduation -- working with Norman Bel Geddes on the General Motors Pavilion at the 1939 World's Fair and for the United States Housing Authority on courtyards for public housing -- inspired a lifelong commitment to the public realm.
        Back in California, he worked for the Farm Security Administration in the 1940's on developing more humane housing for migrant farm workers. (He was exempt from wartime service because of injuries he received in a car accident.)
        The postwar housing boom allowed him plenty of room to develop his ideas. He formed a partnership with his brother-in-law, Edward Williams, that evolved into EDAW, one of the leading landscape design practices in the country.
        Mr. Eckbo's signature garden was typically asymmetrical, with hedges, pavings and plantings used to delineate diagonals, arcs and circles. He also experimented with introducing  materials, plastic or aluminum, to be seen as artificial abstractions within the natural realm.
        Mr. Eckbo turned often to writing to express his opinions and promote the tenets of modernism both to professionals and backyard gardeners. He published his first book, ''Landscape for Living,'' in 1950. Around that time, he started teaching, first at the University of Southern California and later at Berkeley, where he  was chairman of the landscape department from 1963 to 1969.
        Among his projects were the Berkeley waterfront, the Alcoa Forecast Garden in Los Angeles and the 256-acre Ladera planned residential community near Palo Alto, which many scholars consider the postwar period's finest subdivision plan, although it was never completed.
        Mr. Eckbo's work for private clients included gardens for Gary Cooper and Louis B. Mayer. In 1975, he received the American Society of Landscape Architects Medal of Honor.
        In later years, he focused on environmental design, serving as an urban landscape consultant in Brazil, Kuwait and Japan, while continuing to write books and articles. In 1997, Berkeley's University Art Museum presented an exhibition called ''Garrett Eckbo: Modern Landscapes for Living.''
        Mr. Eckbo published his last book in 1998. Called ''People in a Landscape,'' it continues his basic theme that landscapes can link society and nature.
      