
        Dr. George Irving Bell, a biophysicist at the Los Alamos National Laboratory and a leader in its human genome studies, died on May 28 in Los Alamos, N.M., where he lived. He was 73.
        The cause was leukemia complications after surgery, his family said.
        Dr. Bell was a founder of the Center for Human Genome Studies, which was organized at Los Alamos in 1988 with him as acting director. The center participates in the public consortium, sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, that has worked for 10 years to decode the human genome.
        The goal of the Human Genome Project, as it is known, is to decode the three billion units of human DNA and thereby usher in an era in which diseases will be analyzed and treated in terms of the genes that cause or influence them. To that end, the Los Alamos laboratory is also participating in the Department of Energy's Joint Genome Institute in Walnut Creek, Calif., a venture with Lawrence Livermore and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratories.
        While heading the genome studies center for a year, Dr. Bell continued as director of the laboratory's theoretical biology and biophysics division, which he had led since 1974. He was named a senior laboratory fellow in 1989 and retired the next year, but continued his research until last September.
        Dr. Bell, a mountain climber, was a member of a team that climbed two of the highest Andean peaks in Peru in the 1950's and took part in many treks and climbs in the Himalayas. He had hiked 14 miles the weekend before he died.
        George Bell was born in Evanston, Ill. He graduated from Harvard with a degree in physics in 1947, and four years later he received a Ph.D. in theoretical physics from Cornell,  where he studied with the physicist Hans Bethe. Dr. Bell joined the staff at Los Alamos the same year, working in the theoretical division when it was producing designs for thermonuclear weapons.
        Besides sequencing the human genome, his specialties were theoretical physics and immunology, nuclear reactor theory and mathematical models in biophysics. He contributed more than 100 papers, many of them offering novel theoretical approaches to biological problems.
        He was a co-author of ''Nuclear Reactor Theory'' (1970) and a co-editor of ''Theoretical Immunology'' (1978) and ''Computers and DNA'' (1989).
        Dr. Bell is survived by his wife of 46 years, Virginia Lotz Bell; a daughter, Carolyn Prince, of Los Alamos; a son, George Jr., of Boulder, Colo.; a sister, Dr. Barbara Bell, a solar physicist at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics; and five grandchildren.
      