
        Robert M. Fomon, who ran the E. F. Hutton & Company brokerage firm during its heyday and through the scandal that led to its takeover, died Wednesday at a hospital near his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 75.
        Mr. Fomon, who retired as Hutton's chairman in 1987 after 35 years with the firm, died of a heart attack, said Philip Thomas, a former Hutton executive and longtime friend of Mr. Fomon. He had homes in New York and Paris.
        Under Mr. Fomon's leadership in the 1970's and 1980's, E. F. Hutton went public and grew rapidly into a securities firm with a household name. For most of those years, the firm attracted customers with one of the first and most memorable television advertising campaigns for a brokerage firm, using the slogan ''When E. F. Hutton talks, people listen.''
        Mr. Fomon ordered those ads off the air in 1985 after the firm shocked its customers and competitors by pleading guilty to 2,000 felony counts of fraud stemming from an elaborate scheme to earn interest for itself on its customers' money. The Justice Department contended that Hutton earned as much as $8 million by systematically overdrawing its bank accounts and purposefully delaying clearing of checks from 1980 to 1982.
        Hutton paid $2 million in criminal fines to settle the charges, but Mr. Fomon was never implicated in the crimes. He maintained that he had not known about the practices. In a letter to The New York Times in December 1986, Mr. Fomon wrote that a chief executive should be entitled to rely on his subordinates to perform competently and faithfully. ''But that does not mean that the chief executive is personally liable for all the actions or failures of the other officers and managers,'' he wrote.
        Two months later, Hutton's directors relieved Mr. Fomon of operating control of the firm and handed the reins to Robert P. Rittereiser, who succeeded Mr. Fomon as chief executive. Hutton never recovered from the blow to its reputation. It was acquired by Shearson Lehman Brothers in 1988 for nearly $1 billion and the Hutton name eventually disappeared.
        Mr. Fomon took a loose approach to management but fostered a camaraderie that endured, Mr. Thomas said. Last month, about 200 former Hutton employees, including Mr. Fomon, gathered for a reunion at Chelsea Piers in Manhattan.
        A Chicago native who grew up in Appleton, Wis., as the child of two doctors, Mr. Fomon spent his entire career working at Hutton. He began in the firm's Los Angeles office in 1951, after graduating from the University of Southern California, and learned various aspects of the securities business, even some that Hutton had traditionally avoided, such as investment banking.
        His successful management of the firm's emerging corporate finance department attracted the attention of the firm's senior management in 1970 when three executives were locked in a stalemate over who should get the chief executive's job. Mr. Fomon said at the time that even he was surprised when he was tapped to move to New York and run the entire firm.
        Over the next 15 years, the feisty Mr. Fomon occasionally exchanged harsh words with the head of other major brokerage firms, including Merrill Lynch & Company. When Merrill accused Hutton of stealing its brokers and raiding its customers, Mr. Fomon shot back, ''If they can't hold their employees that's their problem; if they were running their business well, there's no way we could hire their employees.''
        Mr. Fomon held various positions in the securities industry during his career. He was a governor of the New York Stock Exchange, chairman of the board of governors of the Pacific Stock Exchange and a member of the National Market Advisory Board to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
        He served on the advisory board of the University of Southern California Graduate School of Business Administration, which gave him its Alumni Award for Business Excellence. He was also a trustee of Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth College and a member of the advisory board of the University of California at Los Angeles Medical School.
        Mr. Fomon is survived by his third wife, the former Daphne Lewis Ashley, of Palm Beach; a daughter, Anne Q. Fomon, of La Jolla, Calif.; a son, Robert Q. Fomon, of New York; a brother, Dr. Samuel J. Fomon, of New Braunfels, Tex.; two wives from previous marriages, Marilyn Quaintance Fomon of Los Angeles, and Sharon Mullin, of Los Angeles; and three grandchildren.
      