
        Chief Justice Ismail Mahomed, a lifelong champion of the fight against white rule and the first nonwhite to preside over South Africa's highest common-law court, died here on Saturday night. He was 68.
        Justice Mahomed, had been in and out of the hospital since learning earlier this year that he had pancreatic cancer.
        He left the bench a few months ago, said the Justice Ministry's chief spokesman, Paul Setsetse.
        Justice Mahomed's death, in the Linksfield Park Clinic, was, Mr. Setsetse said, ''the result of the cancer.''
        The chief justice was buried today in the capital, Pretoria, after a funeral service that was attended by President Thabo Mbeki and members of the cabinet.
        Justice Mahomed lived in Johannesburg with his wife, Hawo.
        His death leaves the Supreme Court of Appeal leaderless at a crucial time in its history.
        The son of Indian shopkeepers, he studied law at the University of the Witwatersrand, one of the country's best schools. But he found his ambitions stunted by the apartheid era's entrenched segregation.
        He was denied admission to the bar in Pretoria, where he had grown up. He managed to win admission in Johannesburg in the late 1950's, but found himself hemmed in by the intricate web of laws that had been crafted to curtail the freedoms of people considered nonwhite under apartheid.
        Under the notorious Group Areas Act, he was barred from renting an office of his own, so he would use colleagues' offices when they were in court or failing that, head off to the law library.
        Far from succumbing to its restrictions, however, he became one of the country's leading authorities on that law. It restricted where persons considered nonwhite were permitted to be and was a major targets of the antiapartheid activists whom Mr. Mahomed would spend decades defending.
        Over the years, in spite of everything that stood in the way of his success, he became known as one of the bar's sharpest minds and engaging orators, not only in South Africa but across the region as well. After winning independence from South Africa, neighboring Namibia called on him to help draft its Constitution and selected him to be the country's chief justice.
        When South Africa began to take its first steps toward change in the early 1990's, Mr. Mahomed was appointed a judge, the first nonwhite to sit on the bench in South Africa's history. And in 1996, Nelson Mandela, who had been elected president in 1994 in the country's first all-race elections, chose Mr. Mahomed as chairman of the Supreme Court of Appeal.
        While his appointment was a momentous step toward transforming the country's justice system, in the years since then, the court has made no progress in adding more nonwhites to the roster of 18 justices who sit on its bench.
        Every one of the other permanent justices is a white man, many of them veterans of the apartheid era.
        For months, pressure has been mounting on the government to take steps to recast the court with a bench that is more reflective of the nation's population. With the loss of Mr. Mahomed, those calls are likely to grow louder.
      