
        Noboru Takeshita, a former prime minister, and one of the legendary kingmakers of postwar politics in Japan, died today in a Tokyo hospital after a long illness. He was 76.
        Mr. Takeshita (pronounced tah-kesh-tah), who was prime minister from 1987 to 1989, during the height of Japan's financial power, was forced to resign from office by a stocks-for-favors scandal that involved much of his cabinet.
        But his influence over Japanese politics flourished, even in resignation, as he used his control over the largest faction in the ruling Liberal Democratic Party to pick a succession of prime ministers and, it was widely believed, direct their policies.
        Mr. Takeshita's last hand-picked government was that of his longtime protege, Keizo Obuchi, who became prime minister in July 1998. When Mr. Obuchi suffered a debilitating stroke in April, his chief cabinet secretary, Mikio Aoiki, was widely reported to have spent four hours at Mr. Takeshita's sickbed, plotting the prime minister's succession.
        Mr. Obuchi died in May, and was replaced by Yoshiro Mori, a leader of another Liberal Democratic Party faction. Mr. Mori's accession to power, however, was made possible only through the approval of Mr. Takeshita's former faction.
        Mr. Takeshita was said to have been deeply affected by Mr. Obuchi's stroke, and he resigned the seat he had held in Parliament.
        Mr. Takeshita was officially said to be suffering from spondylitis deformans, which causes severe back pain and sometimes paralysis. In a country where diagnoses are often kept secret, even from patients, it was widely rumored that he was suffering from a form of cancer.
        Together with Kakuei Tanaka, who had served as prime minister in the 1970's, Mr. Takeshita was widely considered to be a principal architect of the patronage-driven, machine-driven system of government that has characterized Japanese politics since the country's rise to economic power starting in the 1960's.
        It was a system that de-emphasized policy matters and concentrated instead on building the kind of consensus needed to cobble together the complex coalitions needed to wield power within the Liberal Democratic Party.
        ''To understand Takeshita is to understand what power means in Japan,'' Toru Hayano, a senior political columnist at the daily Asahi Shimbun, said after Mr. Takeshita's resignation. ''He is not eloquent. He is not a big philosopher. He has no special program of reforms.
        ''The essence of his style was to adjust a little bit every day based on what you have gathered up until then. If there is opposition, you consult with others. When a decision is reached, you distribute the rewards.''
        Japan's overwhelming policy priority throughout much of this period was rapid economic growth, a concentration on gross national product, leading the ruling party's ideology to be dubbed G.N.P.ism by some.
        Mr. Tanaka, and later Mr. Takeshita, wielded their influence by receiving a steady flow of visits from lawmakers eager to redistribute some of Japan's new wealth to their districts, and contractors eager to collect some of the budgetary windfall that came from the country's ambitious development plans.
        Although Tokyo and other large cities grew immensely during this period, both men favored rural, underdeveloped areas of Japan. And together with the government's huge subsidies for Japan's rice farmers, its heavy spending in so-called rear-Japan, the country's western hinterlands, ensured the loyalty of rural voters as the bedrock of the Liberal Democratic Party's electoral base.
        Both men, however, would be brought down by scandals caused by collusion between government and business. Mr. Takeshita was forced from office after admitting that he accepted illegal stock and cash donations from the Recruit Company, a publishing and telecommunications firm.
        Initially, he resisted calls for his resignation, even as three of his ministers were forced to quit office. Finally, with some opinion polls showing as little as three percent support for his government, Mr. Takeshita agreed to step down. He was never charged with any crime.
        Mr. Takeshita had another brush with scandal in 1992, when it was revealed that his allies had paid Japanese organized crime groups to put down a smear campaign by far-right groups.
        Although cited less often, Mr. Takeshita's influence over Japan's economic direction was comparable in scope to his influence on politics.
        Where his predecessor as prime minister, Yasuhiro Nakasone, had failed to pass a highly unpopular consumption tax, Mr. Takeshita, in his quiet, back-room way, quickly cobbled together the necessary coalition and passed it.
        Mr. Takeshita was ''the master consensus builder, the master of the art of mediating between people who want something from the government and the people who have the power to give it,'' said Gerald L. Curtis, a professor of political science at Columbia University.
        His biggest legacy, however, predated his term as prime minister. As the powerful finance minister, in 1985, Mr. Takeshita signed the Plaza Accord, in which the world's wealthy nations agreed to push down the value of the dollar. After the agreement, Japan's currency, the yen, soared. In response, the government imposed a series of interest-rate cuts that quickly sent asset prices soaring. During the ensuing decade, known as the bubble years, stock and real estate price reached astronomical levels. At one point, the land on which Japan's Imperial Palace is located was said to be worth more than the entire state of California.
        Noboru Takeshita was born on Feb. 26, 1924, in the farm village of Kakeya in western Japan, the son of a sake brewer. He served in the Japanese Army during World War II as an instructor. He was a graduate of Waseda University in Tokyo, and before turning to politics, he managed a high school judo team and was an English teacher, though he would later acknowledge that he did not speak the language very well.
        He was first elected to office in 1951, winning a local assembly seat in his native Shimane Prefecture.  Mr. Takeshita was elected to Parliament in 1958 at age 34 and rose in the ruling party ranks under the tutelage of Mr. Tanaka, who was prime minister from 1972 to 1974. He was chief cabinet secretary, typically a launching pad for higher office, for another of Japan's most powerful postwar prime ministers, Eisaku Sato, and again under Mr. Tanaka.
        He is survived by his wife Naoko, whom he had known since childhood, and by three daughters and several grandchildren.
      