
        Jules Roy, a prolific and polemical French writer who sought inspiration for much of his work in the Algeria of his childhood and in his subsequent career as a French air force officer, died on June 15 at his home in the Burgundy town of Vezelay. He was 92.
        Mr. Roy was first recognized as a writer in 1946 for ''La Vallee Heureuse,'' or ''The Happy Valley,'' his prize-winning account of participating in Britain's Royal Air Force bombing raids of the Ruhr Valley. Decades later he was again acclaimed for six novels published in the 1970's under the title ''Les Chevaux du Soleil,'' or ''Horses in the Sun,'' which recounted the history of Algeria from 1830 to its independence from France in 1962.
        Many of his other novels, essays and ''recits,'' or semiautobiographical books, also span out his direct experiences in life, not only ''La Mort de Mao'' (''The Death of Mao''), which followed his travels in China, but also ''La Bataille de Dien Bien Phu,'' (''The Battle of Dien Bien Phu''), about France's defeat in the Indochinese war.
        A friend of the pilot and writer Antoine de Saint-Exupery, who died in 1944, and of his fellow Algerian-born Frenchman Albert Camus, who died in 1960, Mr. Roy was -- like both men -- stubbornly nonconformist. In World War II, he showed early sympathy for the collaborationist Vichy regime before joining the Royal Air Force. Then, after 26 years in the French air force, he resigned his commission in 1953 to protest French involvement in the war in Indochina.
        But more than anything, it was Algeria that dominated his life. In the late 1950's he expressed his fierce opposition to French efforts to smother Algeria's fight for independence in an essay called ''The Algerian War.'' And after completing ''Les Chevaux du Soleil'' in 1989 he published ''Memoires Barbares,'' about his upbringing in Algeria. Only five years ago he returned to an Algeria convulsed by civil war to visit his mother's grave at Sidi Moussa.
        Born on Oct. 22, 1907, in Rovigo,  now Bougara, in Algeria, he was reared by his mother and grandmother. Le Monde recounted that his mother's husband, Louis Roy, a policeman, evicted her from his home when he discovered that the baby's father was a local teacher, Leon Henri Dematons. Although his mother later married Dematons, Jules kept his surname.
        The young boy's first calling was religious, and in 1918 he entered a Roman Catholic seminary, which, he later wrote, ''made me the man I am.'' But in 1927, after being called up for military service, he changed directions and became a career air force officer.
        He married Mirande Grimal, from whom he later divorced. His survivors include their two children, Jean-Louis and Genevieve as well as his second wife, Tatiana Soukoroukoff, whom he married in 1965.
        While sitting out the early part of World War II in Algeria, he read Camus's novel set in Algeria, ''L'Etranger'' (''The Stranger''), and discovered a vocation as a writer. In 1946 ''La Vallee Heureuse'' brought him the prestigious Renaudot Prize, but he remained in the air force, rising to the rank of colonel (the French air force uses army ranks) before resigning over the war in Indochina. From then on he dedicated his life to writing.
        A lifelong Catholic, he moved in his later years to Vezelay, where he lived near the town's exquisite Romanesque basilica of Sainte-Madeleine and became a devotee of Mary Magdalene. He liked to explain his devotion in a typically subversive way. ''She was,'' he often said, ''one of the most beautiful whores in history.''
      