
        Richard Dufallo, a conductor best known for his energetic, probing performances of contemporary music, died last Friday at his home in Denton, Tex. He was 67.
        His wife, the pianist Pamela Mia Paul, said the cause was stomach cancer.
        Mr. Dufallo had a broad repertory that included many standard works, from Mozart and Mahler symphonies to Puccini operas. But his uncanny ability to learn difficult scores quickly and thoroughly and to convey their essence -- dramatic and emotional as well as structural -- made him an important figure in the contemporary music world. He gave the American, European or world premieres of dozens of important works, among them scores by Iannis Xenakis, Karlheinz Stockhausen, Jacob Druckman, Sir Peter Maxwell Davies, Krzysztof Penderecki, George Crumb and Aribert Reimann.
        During the 1970's, when he directed contemporary music series at both the Juilliard School and the Aspen Music Festival, he exercised a powerful influence over the tastes of young performers and, consequently, on the programming of new music in New York and around the country. He also worked hard to gain acceptance for American works in Europe, and gave the first European performances of works by Ives, Ruggles, Druckman and Elliott Carter as well as younger composers like Robert Beaser.
        Mr. Dufallo was born in Whiting, Ind., on Jan. 30, 1933, and studied the clarinet at the American Conservatory of Music in Chicago. He later studied with the composer and conductor Lukas Foss at the University of California, Los Angeles. Mr. Foss soon became an important mentor and colleague: he invited Mr. Dufallo to become the clarinetist in his Improvisation Chamber Ensemble. Mr. Dufallo was an associate conductor at the Buffalo Philharmonic in the mid-1960's during Mr. Foss's tenure as music director there.
        During his years in Buffalo, Mr. Dufallo joined the faculty of the Center of Creative and Performing Arts at the State University of New York. He also studied with the conductor William Steinberg at a New York Philharmonic seminar for conductors. In 1965 Leonard Bernstein appointed him to a two-year position as an assistant conductor of the New York Philharmonic, which he conducted on an Asian tour in 1967.
        After 1967, when both his New York and Buffalo posts came to an end, Mr. Dufallo made guest conducting appearances with several major American orchestras, among them the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony and the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra. In 1969 he pursued further studies with Pierre Boulez and was also appointed to succeed the composer Darius Milhaud as artistic director of the Conference on Contemporary Music at the Aspen Festival.
        In 1970 he made his European debut with the Orchestre Telephonique Francais of Paris. Other European orchestras he conducted include the Berlin Philharmonic, the London Symphony and the National Orchestra of Spain, and he maintained particularly strong ties with the orchestras of the Netherlands. He made his debut with the Amsterdam Concertgebouw Orchestra in 1975, toured with the Netherlands Wind Ensemble and the Dutch Radio Philharmonic and made recordings with the Rotterdam Philharmonic. In 1980 he was appointed music director of the Gelders Orchestra of Arnhem. Mr. Dufallo's last project was a contribution to a 26-part series for Dutch television called ''Of Beauty and Consolation.''
        Mr. Dufallo's recordings include works by Gershwin, Bernstein, Copland, Stravinsky, Takemitsu, Luigi Nono and David Del Tredici. He also published a book, ''Trackings: Composers Speak With Richard Dufallo,'' which included his interviews with 26 composers.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Basil, of Seattle, and Cornelius, of New York; a daughter, Rene Kirby of Los Angeles; and a sister, Kathryn Traczyk of East Chicago, Ind.
      