
        Alan Hovhaness, a prolific composer whose hundreds of orchestral, choral and chamber works found a ready audience among listeners who sought accessibility, directness and an open-hearted spirituality in modern music, died on Wednesday in Seattle. He was 89 and lived in Seattle.
        Few contemporary composers wrote with the fluidity and speed of Mr. Hovhaness, whose catalog included about 500 works, many of them grandly scaled and ambitiously scored. Among them were a dozen operas and other stage works, all set to his own librettos; a collection of ballets composed for Martha Graham and Erick Hawkins; hundreds of evocative orchestral works, including nearly 70 symphonies; many choral works, most of them on religious texts; and a vast selection of chamber pieces and solo piano works. Even at that, his published works are only the tip of the iceberg: he is said to have destroyed more than 1,000 of his early works that he considered unworthy.
        ''I like to compose,'' Mr. Hovhaness told The New York Times in 1986, just before the premiere of his Symphony No. 61. ''I think orchestrally, and hear music in my head much of the time. I spend at least an hour a day actively working, and in my free time I do counterpoint exercises to keep my mind active. I can compose with other music playing in the room, through anything. I can block everything out.''
        Yet it often seemed that Mr. Hovhaness blocked out very little. He drew on the full spectrum of musical influences -- ancient and modern, Western and Asian -- and also the full range of musical instruments. He was one of the first Western composers to write for the sitar and other Indian instruments. He was fond of the timbres and textures of Chinese, Korean and Japanese instruments as well.
        And he could find inspiration in almost anything. His Symphony No. 50, for example, is subtitled ''Mount St. Helens'' and was composed in 1983 to commemorate, evoke and, in a way, celebrate the power of the volcano, which had erupted three years earlier. A sonic boom from the blast hit Mr. Hovhaness's house, and it continued to resonate within him.
        ''I have tried to suggest a musical tribute to the sublime grandeur and beauty of Mount St. Helens and the surrounding majestic Cascade Mountains,'' he said of the work. The celebration of nature -- and particularly mountains, which he once described as ''symbolic meeting places between the mundane and spiritual world'' -- is one of several themes that run through his music. Several of his piano sonatas are named for mountains (among them ''Mount Chocorua'' and ''Mount Ossipee''). One of his most frequently performed works, his Second Symphony (1955), is better known by its subtitle, ''Mysterious Mountain.'' Other symphonies were named similarly, including his 20th (''To the Holy Mountain'') and his 46th (''To the Green Mountains'').
        But other fascinations also found their way into his music. A strong interest in the ancient cultures of Arabia is reflected in works like ''The Rubaiyat'' and ''Two Ghazals.'' Imagery suggested to him by sacred Hindu and Buddhist texts drives works like ''Arjuna,'' ''To Vishnu'' and ''Shambala.'' Ancient Greece is evoked in the opera ''Pericles'' and a series of Greek dances. Japan, the homeland of Mr. Hovhaness's wife, Hinako Fujihara, is visited in several works as well, as is Korea. And many of Mr. Hovhaness's works from the 1940's and 50's -- ''Khrimian Hairig'' and the ''St. Vartan'' Symphony, for example -- reflect an intense interest in his own Armenian roots.
        Mr. Hovhaness's wife survives him, along with a daughter, Jean Nandi of Berkeley, Calif.
        After nature, it was Christian mysticism that most inspired Mr. Hovhaness, and he often made the case that the two things were inseparable -- that his awe of nature was simply a manifestation of his religious devotion. And indeed, often the two are clearly intertwined. Another of his most popular works, the partly improvisatory tone-poem ''And God Created Great Whales'' (1970), is both devotional and picturesque: within its orchestral textures, Mr. Hovhaness included a part for taped whale song.
        This combination of religiosity and naturalism informed Mr. Hovhaness's musical style to a great degree. His works often juxtaposed archaic musical languages and techniques (including medieval melodic figures and quasi-Baroque harmonizations) and more modern styles, but except for passing effects, Mr. Hovhaness rarely transgressed the boundaries of conventional tonality. This, he said, was as much a matter of faith as a reflection of his tastes.
        ''There is a center in everything that exists,'' he said. ''The planets have the sun; the moon, the Earth. The reason I like Oriental music is that everything has a firm center. All music with a center is tonal. Music without a center is fine for a minute or two, but it soon sounds all the same.
        ''I've used all techniques, including the 12-tone technique. But I believe melody is the spring of music. The human voice was the first instrument, and I believe that all the different instruments are voices as well. So I want to give them melodies to sing. I think melodically, and without melody I don't have much interest in music.''
        Mr. Hovhaness was born Alan Vaness Chakmakjian in Somerville, Mass., on March 8, 1911, to parents of Scottish and Armenian descent. He changed his name to Hovhaness, in honor of his maternal grandfather, when he was in his early 20's. He began composing by the time he was 4 and invented his own form of musical notation for the purpose. He did not learn to read music until he was 7. By the time he was a teenager he had written two operas, ''Bluebeard'' and ''Daniel.'' His father, who was a chemistry professor at Tufts Medical School, disapproved of his interest in composition, so the young Mr. Hovhaness began composing late at night, a habit he retained through his entire career. Typically, he would begin composing after sundown and work until the sun rose over the Cascade Mountains, which he could see from his home. He would then sleep until midafternoon.
        Mr. Hovhaness's formal musical training was at the New England Conservatory, where he studied composition with Frederic Converse in the mid-1930's. He discovered Indian music around then, but his works of this period more strongly reflected interests in Renaissance and late Romantic music. In the early 1940's he studied at the Berkshire Music Center with Bohuslav Martinu, who was encouraging, and with Copland and Bernstein, who were critical. Their disapproval led him to reconsider his style. Part of this reorientation was a thorough study of ancient Armenian music.
        From 1948 to 1951, Mr. Hovhaness taught at the Boston Conservatory of Music. During the 1950's he traveled extensively but was based in New York. Among his successes of the period was a 1954 incidental score for a Clifford Odets play, ''The Flowering Peach,'' and a series of ballets for the Graham company. He also wrote soundtracks for several films, including ''Assignment India'' and ''Assignment South-East Asia.'' He moved to Seattle in 1962.
        In 1963, Mr. Hovhaness started a record label, Poseidon Records, that was meant primarily to record his own works. Although he maintained the label for more than 15 years, it became superfluous as more performers began taking up his scores and discovering that they had an immediate appeal with audiences. In recent years, both the Delos and Koch labels have recorded Mr. Hovhaness's music extensively.
        His music had its detractors, some of whom found it too facile. Harold C. Schonberg, reviewing his Symphony No. 3 in The Times in 1964, wrote that the piece was ''all very pretty, and 10 of its 15 minutes would have been ample.'' In 1995, Alex Ross described ''The Rubaiyat'' as a representative of ''the netherworld of pops-concerts ephemera'' in a review in The Times.
        But musicians of many stylistic stripes championed Mr. Hovhaness's music, both in the concert hall and on recordings. Among them were the conductors Andre Kostelanetz and, more recently, Gerard Schwarz; the flutist Jean-Pierre Rampal; and the pianists Sahan Arzruni and Keith Jarrett.
        ''I understand what Hovhaness is doing,'' said Mr. Jarrett, who performed Mr. Hovhaness's 1944 piano concerto ''Lousadzak'' (''Coming of Light'') with the American Composers Orchestra in 1981. '''Lousadzak' certainly isn't a virtuoso piano piece. It's so simple that it's almost impossible to get anything into it. But when you do, it's like someone telling you a very simple truth that you thought of as a cliche all your life. When you hear someone say it as though they had really experienced it, you know right away that it's a cliche because people just say it wrong.''
        Another admirer was the composer John Cage, who described Mr. Hovhaness as ''a music tree who, as an orange or lemon tree produces fruit, produces music.''
      