
        William A. Liebler, a specialist in sports and dance medicine whose clients included the New York Rangers hockey team, the American Ballet Theater, the New York City Ballet and the Martha Graham Dance Company, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 76.
        Dr. Liebler, who lived in Bronxville, N.Y., died of complications of a gall bladder infection and cancer, said Nancy Smith Hall, a family friend.
        Dr. Liebler spent much of his 44-year career writing and lecturing on the treatment of injured athletes and dancers.
        One of his most important achievements was the development in 1988 of a minimally invasive laser procedure for relieving pain caused by some kinds of spinal injuries.
        In an interview in 1979, Dr. Liebler, who calculated that by then he had treated more than 6,000 dance-related injuries, said that one of the greatest difficulties in treating dancers was overcoming their reluctance to reveal the extent of their injuries and pain.
        ''The competition is so great,'' he said, ''many dancers don't want anyone to know about their injury. They don't want to be sidelined. Many times, we don't see injuries until they become major.''
        His prescription for preventing injuries included knowing one's limitations, practicing enough so that steps or plays become second nature, getting excellent instruction, doing warm-up exercises and eating and sleeping properly.
        William Amend Liebler was born on April 6, 1924, in New York City. He graduated from Upsala College in East Orange, N.J., in 1950 and received his medical degree from New York Medical College in 1956.
        He was long affiliated with Lenox Hill Hospital as an attending orthopedic surgeon, and was affiliated with St. Luke's Hospital, Metropolitan Hospital and New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y.
        Dr. Liebler is survived by his wife, Katherine Lyndell Liebler; his two children, Michael Amend Liebler of Bronxville and Cynthia Liebler Saari of Woodstock, Conn.; two sisters, Georgia Liebler Porter of the Bronx and Barbara Liebler Quentin of South Salem, N.Y.; and a grandson.
      