
        Gerald J. Whitrow, a mathematician and philosopher who devoted much of his life to pondering the nature of time, died on June 2 in London. He was 87.
        He was fond of telling a story about the Russian poet Samuel Marshak visiting London before 1914. His English was imperfect, and he asked a man in the street, ''Please, what is time?''
        The passer-by answered: ''That's a big question. Why ask me?''
        Dr. Whitrow himself did not have an absolute answer to the question, which bridges disciplines from mathematics to cosmology to biology, history and psychology. But by combining prodigious scholarship from the ancient Greeks to modern physicists, he argued persuasively in more than 100 academic papers and a string of books that an integrated, interdisciplinary understanding of time should be possible.
        But can time be said to have a beginning, a direction and an end? His assiduous scholarship suggested that the answer might depend on whom you ask.
        The conclusion of his most influential book, ''The Nature of Time,'' published by Nelson in 1961 and Oxford in 1980, was that a concept of time is fundamentally necessary.
        He said time was not ''a mysterious illusion of the intellect.'' Rather, he declared, ''It is an essential feature of the universe.''
        In 1969, Dr. Whitrow was invited to serve as the first president of the newly founded International Society for the Study of Time, which tries to provide a framework for interdisciplinary discussions of the subject.
        The founder of that group, J. T. Fraser, said Dr. Whitrow had ''demonstrated that, even in our epoch of immense amounts of interesting but fragmented scientific understanding and humanistic insights, it is possible to filter all major ideas about time through the mind of a single person -- and produce an elegant and brilliantly clear survey.''
        Gerald James Whitrow was born in Dorset. When he was 4, the family moved to London. Though they were poor, he won a series of scholarships, including one to Christ Church College, Oxford, where he won highest honors in mathematics. At 24 he was named a lecturer in mathematics, a feat so prodigious that it prompted an article in The Daily Mirror.
        His doctoral thesis at Christ Church concerned kinematic relativity, a subject created by his adviser, E. A. Milne, and derived from Einstein. It uses the discipline of cosmology to deal with the motions of objects.
        From that work he moved on to studying the philosophy and mathematics of time and motion. The first of his 10 books was ''The Structure of the Universe'' in 1949, and the last was ''Time in History'' in 1988.
        Some of his musings could be simultaneously provocative and playful. In ''The Nature of Time,'' he noted that the Stoic philosophers of ancient Greece believed that the planets periodically return to the same relative positions they occupied at the beginning of time.
        ''The stars again move in their orbits, each performing its revolution in the former period, without variation.'' he wrote. ''Socrates and Plato and each individual man will live again, with the same friends and fellow citizens. They will go through the same experiences and the same activities. Every city and village and field will be restored, just as it was.
        ''And this restoration of the universe takes place not only once, but over and over again -- indeed, until all eternity without end.''
        During World War II he worked for the Ministry of Supply, researching ballistics. His apartment in Cambridge was bombed and his landlady was killed. In timely fashion, he was away when the attack happened.
        In 1945 he was appointed a lecturer at Imperial College of Science and Technology in London, where he remained for the rest of his career. He lived in Wimbledon, was active in London academic society and clubs and loved opera.
        Dr. Whitrow is survived by his wife of 53 years, Magda.
        Known for his clear, booming voice, he was frequently heard on the radio. Friends love to tell of the time he gave three talks on the nature of time for the British Broadcasting Corporation, only to have them broadcast in the wrong order. They had to be repeated.
        Dr. Whitrow came across as the proverbial dignified Englishman. Mr. Fraser tells of the time a famous speaker did not turn up, and those waiting for him grumbled, but not Dr. Whitrow. ''He simply remarked, 'Some people have no manners,' '' Dr. Fraser said.
        But he also had a wry sense of humor. He liked to recall the time he mentioned his friend Karl Popper, the philosopher, at a party, saying, ''I am going to see Popper tomorrow.'' A guest replied, ''Good heavens, is your father still alive?''
      