
        Jerome Richardson, a saxophonist and flutist who was one of the most recorded musicians in the history of jazz and an original member of the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Orchestra, died on Friday at a hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Secaucus, N.J.
        Mr. Richardson was born in Oakland, Calif. He played saxophone from the age of 8 and made his professional debut at 14 with the Lionel Hampton band. At the time, he was one of the rare jazz musicians who had academic training, having studied music at San Francisco State College.
        He worked briefly with the Jimmie Lunceford orchestra before serving in the Navy as a member of Marshall Royal's jazz dance-band unit. He rejoined the Hampton band in the late 1940's and recorded ''Kingfish,'' on which he played what may be the first recorded modern-jazz flute solo.
        After moving to New York in 1954, Mr. Richardson -- an excellent sight-reader as well as a versatile musician and a decent singer -- soon found himself in demand for studio-session work, playing jazz, rhythm-and-blues and rock 'n' roll. He began to work with Quincy Jones, whom he had met when they were both playing with the Hampton band a decade earlier. In 1959 he traveled to Europe with Mr. Jones for the premiere of the Harold Arlen blues opera, ''Free and Easy,'' and in later years they regularly worked together on jazz and pop projects. By the end of his career, Mr. Richardson had appeared on over 4,000 recordings with artists like Ella Fitzgerald, Frank Sinatra, Sarah Vaughan and Miles Davis.
        In 1965 he was a founding member of the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Orchestra, a band whose Ellingtonian harmonies, humor and new instrumental palette -- it was notable for its  two soprano saxophonists -- set the template for a great deal of post-Count Basie big-band writing. For five years he played alto, soprano saxophone and flute in the band and then in the early 70's moved to Los Angeles, which had become the new center of session-musician work.
        By the end of the 80's, Mr. Richardson was back in New York, contracting musicians and playing in the bands of a number of Broadway musicals -- ''Black and Blue,'' ''Jelly's Last Jam'' and ''Play On.'' In recent years he appeared with Art Farmer and Slide Hampton, and was a member of the singer Teri Thornton's sextet.
        He is survived by his wife, Rowena; two daughters, Kim, of Montclair, N.J. and Denise Wilson of Berkeley, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      