
        Bill Papas, an artist and political cartoonist whose work was syndicated worldwide, died on June 19 in an airplane accident in British Columbia, Canada. He was 73 and lived in Portland, Ore.
        Mr. Papas, who had been fishing with a group of friends, drowned when the float plane on which he was a passenger crashed, his wife, Tessa, said. Two friends also died in the accident.
        ''I regard myself as an artist reporter, a recorder of people, places and events,'' Mr. Papas once wrote. ''A sketchbook commands respect, a degree of awe and instant communication in a way a camera cannot. It is a passport to people.''
        Born in Ermelo, South Africa, to Greek parents, William Papas attended art school in London.
        In 1952 he returned to his home country, capturing in strong, simple lines the street scenes of Cape Town and, more dramatically, the treason trials of Nelson Mandela, for The Cape Times, Drum magazine and The Johannesburg Star.
        In 1959 he moved back to London, where he was hired by The Guardian. During the 1960's, he earned renown as one of England's best-known political cartoonists, particularly for his images of the 1967 Six Day War.
        His work, which also appeared in The Sunday Times and Punch magazine, was widely syndicated.
        After Mr. Papas retired in 1971, he and his wife spent the next 12 years in Greece.
        In 1984 the couple moved to the United States, traveling more than 100,000 miles before settling in Portland, and recording their initial impressions of the country before becoming, in Mr. Papas's words, ''too Americanized.''
        The result was ''Papas's America,'' a large-format, limited-edition book that evoked scenes of everyday life in a manner that led some critics to label him the Norman Rockwell of the 1980's.
        In 1996 the couple published ''Papas's Portland,'' an examination of their adopted city through words and watercolors.
        Mr. Papas also illustrated publications like C. S. Lewis's ''Screwtape Letters'' and ''Illustrimi'' by Pope John Paul I, as well as a number of children's books published by Oxford University Press.
        His artworks are in the collections of the National Portrait Gallery in London, the Vorres Museum in Athens and the Old City Museum in Jerusalem, among others.
        In addition to his wife Mr. Papas is survived by a daughter, Peta Papas-Girod of Geneva; two sons, Warren and Vollmer, both of Somerset West, South Africa; two brothers, Tasso, of Ermelo, South Africa, and Bob, of White River, South Africa; two sisters, Irene Horewood of Somerset West and Athena de Villiers of Cape Town; and two grandchildren.
      