
        Joseph Jerome Ruvane Jr., a pharmaceuticals executive who capped 50 years in the industry by helping turn Glaxo Inc. into America's fastest-growing major drug company, died last Wednesday at a hospital in Durham, N.C., where he lived. He was 75.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Ruvane was recruited as Glaxo's president in 1981, and he later served as chairman and chief executive with added responsibilities for Central and South American operations. In 1983, he entered into a joint agreement with Hoffmann LaRoche Inc. to introduce Glaxo's antiulcer drug, Zantac, which became a runaway success.
        The undertaking tripled the company's marketing effectiveness, the company said, and let it compete with industry giants like SmithKline Beecham. Mr. Ruvane's strategy, it said, caused Zantac to make the most impressive entry into the American market of any drug up to that time.
        Mr. Ruvane steered the company's move from Florida to new headquarters and research and manufacturing centers in Research Triangle Park, N.C. Since then the corporation has become Glaxo Wellcome Inc., a subsidiary of Glaxo Wellcome P.L.C. of Britain
        Mr. Ruvane was the first American to be named to the board of the parent company, Glaxo Holdings P.L.C. He retired in 1989 as chairman and chief operating officer, but continued to serve as vice chairman of Glaxo Inc. and chairman of the Glaxo Foundation.
        He led Glaxo into becoming a substantial corporate supporter of cultural, educational and social causes in the region, including Duke University, the University of North Carolina, local and county schools, and Habitat for Humanity, among others. After his retirement he served on the boards of several startup biotechnology companies.
        Born in Jersey City, Mr. Ruvane graduated in biological science from the University of Virginia in 1947 and took business courses as he stepped into a career in pharmaceuticals. Before taking the presidency of Glaxo in 1981, he served for 10 years as president of Organon Inc., a pharmaceutical company based in West Orange, N.J.
        Mr. Ruvane is survived by his wife of 47 years, Joan Duncan Stewart Ruvane; four daughters, Emily Johnston, of Tucson, Ariz., Sharon Neison, of Stowe, Vt., and Mary B. and Patricia Ruvane, of Chapel Hill, N.C.; two sons, Joseph III. of Henryville, Pa., and Louis S., of La Jolla, Calif.; a brother, John A., of Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.; a sister, Anne R. McKelvey. of Melbourne, Fla; and seven grandchildren.
      