
        Dr. Keith Reemtsma, who in 1964 transplanted a kidney from a chimpanzee to a woman who then lived with it for nine months, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74.
        In addition to performing cross-species transplants, known as xenotransplantation, Dr. Reemtsma was an expert in all kinds of human transplants. For 23 years, he was chairman of the department of surgery at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, where he helped create a leading heart transplant center.
        ''Keith was a giant in the field of transplantation,'' said another surgical pioneer, Dr. Thomas E. Starzl of the University of Pittsburgh, who developed liver transplants.
        ''If xenotransplantation eventually works, no doubt the starting point will be traced to Keith Reemtsma,'' Dr. Starzl said.
        Dr. Reemtsma is credited with being the first to show that nonhuman organs could be transplanted into humans and function for a significant period. He achieved that by giving six humans chimpanzee kidneys in the first chimpanzee-to-human organ transplants in 1963 and 1964.
        A 23-year-old teacher survived with a chimpanzee kidney for nine months; she died of overwhelming infection. The other five recipients also died from infections, from 8 to 63 days after receiving chimpanzee kidneys.
        Still, the length of the teacher's survival, as well as the nine-week survival of a 44-year-old dock worker, surprised many experts. ''That was his signature contribution,'' Dr. Starzl said, and ''it has been the one real beacon of hope'' for researchers who have tried to break the cross-species transplantation barrier.
        Dr. Reemtsma undertook the controversial transplants in desperation, because of an impasse in obtaining donor organs and a reluctance to use live human donors ''for ethical, scientific and legal reasons,'' he wrote later in a scientific journal.
        In the 1960's, doctors knew that certain blood cells recognized transplanted organs as foreign and attacked them, but they did not know which cells were involved or how the process worked. Now, as the field of immunology has flowered, scientists have identified several cells that act in concert to reject foreign cells. Also, scientists have developed several drugs to suppress the immune system to prevent such rejection. Dr. Reemtsma lived to see his students  achieve one-year survival rates of up to 90 percent for human kidney transplants and 85 percent for heart transplants.
        But as the results improved, the waiting list for organs grew. Dr. Reemtsma continued to promote research into xenotransplantation in the belief that there would never be a sufficient supply of human organs. But protests from advocates for animal rights and concerns that giving humans animal organs could unleash another AIDS virus have heightened the controversy over cross-species transplants.
        Dr. Reemtsma spent his career seeking to transplant islet cells from the pancreas as a cure for diabetes. A month before his death, he learned that scientists in Canada had apparently succeeded with this procedure in eight patients.
        ''He always thought it was going to work,'' said his wife, Judy Reemtsma.
        Dr. Reemtsma, who stood 6 feet 3 inches, was born in Madera, Calif., on Dec. 5, 1925. He grew up on a Navajo Indian reservation in the Southwest, where his father, Henry, was a Presbyterian minister and missionary.
        Dr. Reemtsma attended schools in Oklahoma and Utah and graduated from Idaho State College in Pocatello in 1945. After earning a medical degree at the University of Pennsylvania in 1949, Dr. Reemtsma began training at Columbia to become a surgeon. But in 1951 his career was interrupted by the Korean War; he served in the Navy and Marine Corps.
        According to Mrs. Reemtsma, Dr. Reemtsma was a model for the character Dr. Hawkeye Pierce in the movie and television series ''M*A*S*H.''
        After the war, Dr. Reemtsma became the chief resident at Columbia. He received a doctorate in medical science from Columbia in 1958 as he was leaving for Tulane.
        In 1966, he became chairman of the department of surgery at the University of Utah. Organ transplantation remained his main interest. But when he learned that Dr. Willem Kolff, who had developed the artificial kidney, was unhappy at the Cleveland Clinic, Dr. Reemtsma recruited him to Salt Lake City to establish one of the world's first programs to develop a variety of artificial organs for implantation in humans.
        ''Reemtsma was a man who immediately inspired confidence,'' Dr. Kolff said. He went on: ''I bought a house in Salt Lake City before I had a contract because there was never any doubt about his word. I came with an extensive program, and he offered me wooden barracks from World War I that no one wanted but that I thought were ideal.''
        The work in Utah led to the first implantation of an artificial heart, in Dr. Barney Clark in 1982 at the University of Utah. Mechanical hearts, known as ventricular assist devices, are now used as temporary bridges to transplants at Columbia and other hospitals.
        When Columbia recruited Dr. Reemtsma to be its chief surgeon in 1971, ''he had no desire to leave Utah,'' Dr. Kolff said. He made demands that ''he never expected Columbia would accept,'' and Columbia accepted, Dr. Kolff said.
        Much later, after stepping down at Columbia, Dr. Reemtsma founded an international center for health outcomes research there. Dr. Reemtsma advocated a system of ''your fault'' insurance in which individuals paid for medical problems that developed from having ignored clear health warnings.
        Dr. Starzl recalled coming down with the flu last November, while he and Dr. Reemtsma were at a meeting in Japan. When Dr. Reemtsma learned of his condition, he advised Dr. Starzl to go home.
        ''Keith seemed fine then,'' Dr. Starzl said, ''but 10 days later, he called me from home and said he had turned yellow'' from cancer of the liver.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Reemtsma is survived by their two sons, Lance Brewster Reemtsma of Berkeley, Calif., and Dirk Van Horn Reemtsma of Oceanside, Calif.; a sister, Carol Sharpe, of Guelph, Ontario; and two grandchildren.
      