
        Harold Nicholas, the younger member of the dazzling tap-dancing Nicholas Brothers, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in New York City.
        The cause was heart failure following surgery at New York Hospital, said Bruce Goldstein, a friend and a writer of the 1992 documentary ''Nicholas Brothers: We Sing and We Dance.''
        The careers of Mr. Nicholas and his brother, Fayard, began in their childhood. Harold Nicholas continued to perform as a singer and raconteur into the 1990's as a guest artist with companies including Lynn Dally's Jazz Tap Ensemble, with which the brothers were to have appeared in a tribute this week in Los Angeles.
        They danced in vaudeville, on Broadway, in nightclubs and on television. But it was their dancing in movie musicals that brought them the most acclaim and made them internationally famous.
        Harold Nicholas appeared in more than 50 films, from 1932 to 1989, including ''The Big Broadcast of 1936'' (1935), ''Down Argentine Way'' (1940), ''Tin Pan Alley'' (1940), ''Sun Valley Serenade'' (1941) and ''Stormy Weather'' (1943). The brothers' gifts were epitomized in ''Stormy Weather,'' an all-black 20th Century Fox musical, in which they seemed to explode on the screen in their trademark fast footwork and astonishing leaps and splits. Their ''Jumpin' Jive'' dance in that film, Fred Astaire told them, was the greatest movie musical number he had ever seen.
        In that number the brothers danced on drums and leaped over the heads of orchestra musicians. ''Spins, cramp rolls, turns and crossover steps were woven into an intricate pattern of sound and movement, as the brothers spun out back-sliding rhythms that slipped smoothly from place to place on the stage,'' Constance Valis Hill wrote in her ''Brotherhood in Rhythm: The Jazz Tap Dancing of the Nicholas Brothers,'' published this year.
        The brothers absorbed all that they saw in dance in films and on the stage, including work by Nick Castle, the 20th Century Fox choreographer, and George Balanchine, who cast the brothers in two Broadway musicals he choreographed, ''The Ziegfeld Follies of 1936'' and ''Babes in Arms'' (1937). The two also appeared on Broadway in ''St. Louis Woman'' (1946), in which Harold introduced the song ''Come Rain or Come Shine.''
        Their tap was an extraordinarily fluent blend of jazz, tap, ''flash-act'' acrobatics, angular eccentric movement, black vernacular dance and ballet. They themselves called their work ''classical tap,'' not only because it incorporated elements of ballet but also because they danced with their whole bodies, including the often-neglected arms and hands. Fayard Nicholas, six years older than Harold and a lifetime mentor, choreographed their early dances, but Harold later came into his own as a more instinctual dance-maker.
        Born in Winston-Salem, N.C., to Ulysses and Viola Nicholas, musicians and vaudeville orchestra directors, Harold Lloyd Nicholas began dancing at 5 at black vaudeville houses in Philadelphia as a member of the Nicholas Kids, a show-stopping act that Fayard had created for his brother, himself and their sister Dorothy. The brothers' formal professional debut was made in 1930 on the radio show ''Horn & Hardart Kiddie Hour.''
        Within two years they were performing in New York City. At the Lafayette Theater in Harlem they were seen by a Warner Brothers producer who helped them land their first film roles, in a black vaudeville short called ''Pie, Pie, Blackbird'' (1932). They made their debut in 1932 at the Cotton Club. A formidable blend of innocence and sophistication, the Nicholas Brothers were born.
        Their Hollywood career began after Samuel Goldwyn saw them at the club, where they performed as headliners for eight years, and cast them in ''Kid Millions'' (1934). A well-received stint in London followed in the stage revue ''Blackbirds of 1936.'' One reviewer noted of Harold, in The Times of London in 1936, that the audience did not know whether to admire most his ''twinkling feet or slow, baby smile.''
        The brothers became grown-up stars in ''Down Argentine Way'' (1940) and appeared in five other films for 20th Century Fox. Despite racial restrictions -- no speaking parts, no scenes with their white co-stars and dances designed to be easily deleted by Southern exhibitors -- the two became huge film stars. Their last film together was ''The Pirate'' (1948), in which Gene Kelly broke the color bar by dancing with them.
        Harold Nicholas appeared as a solo artist in films including ''Uptown Saturday Night'' (1974), ''Tap'' (1989) and ''The Five Heartbeats'' (1991). He also had a successful career in France, where he moved in 1950, and performed as a dancer and singer throughout Europe and in North Africa. He appeared with Eddie Constantine in the French film ''L'Empire de la Nuit'' (1964).
        Back in the United States, Mr. Nicholas performed on television and on the road. He returned to Europe to perform in the 1980's, as popular as ever. Mr. Nicholas was a familiar presence on the New York dance scene for the last 20 years, as a wry commentator and a subtle sweet-voiced singer who executed a teasing step or two on occasion. With his brother, he was the subject of a 1998 tribute at Carnegie Hall. Other honors include the jointly received 1991 Kennedy Center honors, the 1998 Samuel H. Scripps American Dance Festival Award and an Academy Awards tribute in 1981. The brothers also taught as visiting dance artists at Harvard University and Radcliffe College in 1996.
        Mr. Nicholas's marriages to the actress Dorothy Dandridge and Elyanne Patronne ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife Rigmor Newman Nicholas, of New York City; his brother, Fayard; his sister, Dorothy Morrow; a daughter, Harolyn; a son, Melih, all of Los Angeles; and two stepchildren, Frederick Newman of Torrington, Conn., and Annie, of Los Angeles.
        Mr. Nicholas was always urbanely ready for anything. In a 1988 interview in The New York Times, the tap star, then 67, was asked if he would do his trademark move at a forthcoming show.
        ''I'll do a split or two maybe,'' he said. ''Don't plural it too much.''
      