
        Dr. Abraham Pais, a physicist who helped build the conceptual foundations of the modern theory of elementary particles, then became a science historian and wrote one of the most acclaimed of all biographies of Einstein, died on Friday in Copenhagen. He was 82 and was the Detlev W. Bronk professor emeritus at Rockefeller University.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, Joshua Pais, who is an actor in New York. Mr. Pais said his father generally spent part of the year in Copenhagen, where Dr. Pais's wife, Dr. Ida Nicolaisen, is a research fellow at the Nordic Institute of Asian Studies.
        Dr. Pais (pronounced PICE), who was born to Jewish parents in the Netherlands, received his Ph.D. from the University of Utrecht, the Netherlands, on July 9, 1941, just days before the Nazis banned the awarding of academic degrees to Jews. He eventually went into hiding and managed to survive the war even after his capture by the Gestapo in 1945.
        Working at institutions in Denmark and the United States after the war, Dr. Pais counted among his immediate colleagues some of history's most famous scientists, including Einstein, Niels Bohr and J. Robert Oppenheimer. Dr. Pais's own theoretical work plumbed some of the profound implications of the numerous particle discoveries made in the 1950's and 1960's.
        But he became best known for the book he published in 1982, '' 'Subtle Is the Lord': The Science and the Life of Albert Einstein.'' The title referred to a remark by Einstein on his personal creed: ''Subtle is the Lord, but malicious he is not.''
        Dr. Pais wrote that when asked to explain the remark, Einstein had replied: ''Nature hides her secret because of her essential loftiness, but not by means of ruse.''
        Though hardly easy to read with its mixture of scientific equations and biographical narrative, the book won critical acclaim and became an instant classic among scientists, who said they felt that it captured the essence of their intellectual culture.
        ''I think it is the best biography of Einstein ever written,'' said Dr. Hans Bethe, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist at Cornell University, who also praised the biography of Bohr that Dr. Pais later wrote. ''He had the ability to really think himself into the minds of these two people.''
        Dr. Steven Weinberg, a physicist at the University of Texas in Austin who also won a Nobel Prize, called the Einstein book a masterpiece and said Dr. Pais had both chronicled and participated in some of the most important scientific currents of the 20th century.
        ''He was one of a generation of European physicists who came to the United States in the 1930's and 1940's and really changed American science, bringing from Europe a kind of worldliness and sophistication,'' Dr. Weinberg said. ''That was a great generation.''
        Abraham Pais was born on May 19, 1918, to Jeseja and Kaatje Pais, both elementary-school teachers. In a memoir, Dr. Pais described his childhood as carefree and wrote, ''At school I became a smart, rather arrogant kid, always learning fast, especially arithmetic.'' He was generally at the top of his class, doing poorly only in physical education, he said.
        But he had little interest in physics until being captivated by two lectures on the subject given by a visitor to the University of Amsterdam, George E. Uhlenbeck, a Dutch-American physicist who had co-discovered a crucial property of the electron called spin.
        Soon after, Abraham Pais was busy with theoretical research on subatomic particles and fields. After receiving his Ph.D. from the University of Utrecht, he worked at teaching jobs, but went into hiding in March 1943 after the Nazis began deporting Dutch Jews.
        Partly with the help of a non-Jewish friend, Tineke Buchter, Dr. Pais hid in a series of houses in the city, narrowly escaping capture at one point as he crouched in an attic behind a secret panel that would not close properly. A Gestapo agent, searching the attic, shone a bright flashlight directly against the panel. ''I could see the light through the crack,'' Dr. Pais later wrote. ''I can still see that light even as I write these lines.''
        A close friend arrested along with him died at the hands of the Nazis, as did his sister, Annie, but he and his parents survived.
        After the war, he worked briefly in Copenhagen at what is now called the Niels Bohr Institute, then was recruited to the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., by Oppenheimer, its director. In 1963, he moved to Rockefeller University, where he remained.
        Although as a physicist Dr. Pais showed few signs of his later interest in history, ''he was always a literary and literate man and expressed himself well in various languages,'' said Dr. Francis Low, a retired physicist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who knew Dr. Pais in Princeton.
        In 1952, Dr. Pais proposed a concept called ''associated production'' to explain why certain particles lived for unexpectedly long times before decaying. The particles, he suggested, were produced rapidly in pairs, but neither could decay quickly on its own.
        The particles did turn out to be produced in slowly decaying pairs, though for reasons that were not fully explained until later work by Dr. Murray Gell-Mann of the Santa Fe Institute in New Mexico, a Nobel Prize winner.
        Dr. Pais collaborated with Dr. Gell-Mann in a theoretical paper in 1955 showing that what seemed to be a single particle could actually be a sort of superposition of two different particles, each with a different lifetime and decay mode.
        A consequence of the strange laws of quantum mechanics, the prediction eventually led to an experiment by Dr. James Cronin and Dr. Val Fitch in 1964 that won them both a Nobel Prize.
        ''That is one of the finest theoretical papers ever written,'' Dr. Cronin, who is at the University of Chicago, said in an interview. ''It kind of gives you goose bumps, like a fine piece of music.''
        The paper, Dr. Cronin said, was remarkable for ''the simplicity of the arguments and the immensity of the consequences.''
        Dr. Pais's early recognition that all of the apparently different particles in nature might be arranged in a sort of periodic table, like chemical elements, is often cited as one of the first clear glimpses of the direction that elementary particle theory would eventually take in the second half of the 20th century.
        ''Scientists are like pickpockets,'' Dr. Pais once said of his philosophy of research. ''Nature is the way it is, and you had better be smart enough to get a little glimpse.''
        After becoming fascinated by some research into old scientific papers that he happened to undertake in the 1970's, he shifted his interests to the history of science. His first book, '' 'Subtle is the Lord' '' opened with a walk he had taken with Einstein in Princeton. Dr. Pais wrote that Einstein ''suddenly stopped, turned to me, and asked me if I really believed that the moon exists only if I look at it.''
        That led to a discussion of the nature of reality as seen through the prism of quantum mechanics and the theory of relativity, and from there to a biographical narrative on Einstein's science and life.
        ''This book on Einstein is not only a biography of a great scientist, but it really set an example of how the history of ideas should be handled,'' said Dr. Nicola Khuri, a professor and head of the laboratory of theoretical physics at Rockefeller University, in an interview.
        Timothy Ferris, reviewing the book in The New York Times, wrote that it ''emerges as a monument to sound scholarship and graceful style,'' adding that ''it is a work against which future scientific biographies will be measured.''
        Still, Mr. Ferris and reviewers of Dr. Pais's later books acknowledged that a heavy dose of technical material often made them challenging reading. Richard Rhodes, one of those reviewers, wrote that Luis Alvarez, the Nobel laureate, once mentioned that he had read ''Subtle,'' an American Book Award winner, but had ''skipped the hard parts.''
        Dr. Pais later wrote ''Inward Bound: Of Matter and Forces in the Physical World'' (1986); ''Niels Bohr's Times: In Physics, Philosophy, and Polity'' (1991); ''Einstein Lived Here: Essays for the Layman'' (1994); ''A Tale of Two Continents: A Physicist's Life in a Turbulent World'' (1997); and ''The Genius of Science: A Portrait Gallery of Twentieth-Century Physicists'' (2000).
        He is survived by his wife; his son; a stepson from a previous marriage, Daniel Via; and a grandson.
        Referring to Dr. Pais by his nickname, Bram, Dr. Tsung Dao Lee, a Nobel laureate at Columbia University, said in a statement transmitted through Dr. Khuri: ''Bram Pais is the best of us. He has made history of physics.''
      