
        Jose Angel Valente, a cerebral Spaniard who believed writing poetry should begin with the word and not with the real-life world, died on July 18 in a hospital in Geneva. He was 71.
        He had cancer, The Associated Press reported.
        The poet, who was also a critic and translator, wrote his poetry in Spanish and in Galician, a regional tongue in Spain's northwest, where he was born.
        ''There is no doubt that he was one of the principal figures of Spanish poetry'' in the 20th century, Carlos Casares, a man of letters who is president of the Galician Cultural Council, said after the poet's death.
        Douglass M. Rogers, a retired professor of Spanish at the University of Texas, said: ''Jose Angel Valente was one of the earliest Spanish poets to reveal a clear and promising departure from the rhetorical excesses of the poetry of social realism dominant in post-Civil War Spain by the 1950's. His work retains recurring notes of critical protest, but these are driven less by the conditions of life in postwar Spain than by general ethical and philosophical preoccupations.''
        The prevailing concept of that day was of poetry as communication, but Professor Rogers said: ''Valente, both in his critical writing and his poetic works, reveals the conviction that poetry starts with the word, rather than external reality. His tendency toward metapoetry -- or poetry as its own subject matter -- rapidly became a signal characteristic of his generation of poets'' in Spain.
        A decade ago, Mr. Valente declared: ''The poet must continue in his task, in spite of the inherent ambiguities, inconsistencies and imperfect approximations that language entails. It is within the context of these difficulties that the reader's role becomes paramount. Both poet and reader must approach the language of poetry as a starting point: poet, word, idea and reader all participate in the ongoing process of the creative act.''
        His seemingly unenigmatic poem ''Night Falls,'' which is in a 1960 volume of his poems, is said to illustrate the gravity and even the pessimistic tone of much of his early poetry:
        night falls.
        One's heart descends
        infinite steps,
        enormous galleries
        until it encounters sorrow.
        There it rests, lying,
        there, vanquished,
        lies its own being.
        Man can
        bear it on his shoulders in order to ascend anew
        toward the light sorrow-
        fully: he can walk forever,
        walk . . .
        Thou who art able,
        give us our daily resurrection!
        His first poems were published in 1947. In the first of his books of poetry, ''In the Manner of Hope'' (1955), he pondered the meanings of loss and death but included other, less somber themes.
        Years later, the Oxford Companion to Spanish Literature (1978) said his main preoccupations were ''exile, deprivation, death and contemporary Spain.''
        The last book of his poetry came out in 1996. He wrote more than two dozen books and won a number of prestigious Spanish literary prizes.
        Born in Orense in Galicia, he received a degree in romance philology at the University of Madrid and a master's degree at Oxford, where he taught in the 1950's. He also taught at the University of California at Irvine for a time. He was a translator for the World Health Organization in Geneva for two decades, worked for Unesco in Paris and moved to the city of Almeria in southeastern Spain in the mid-1980's.
        He was married twice and had four children, two of whom died early in life. His survivors include his wife, Cora.
      