
        Dr. Les Sirkin, a geologist who mapped the ways glaciers shaped Northern American coastlines from Long Island to Baja California, died on June 25 at his summer home on Block Island, R.I. Formerly of Garden City, N.Y., he was 66 and lived in Johnsburg, N.Y.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Sirkin was an expert in the stratigraphy, the layered arrangement of rocks, of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic eras, a vast expanse of time from 225 million years ago until after the most recent ice age. It witnessed cataclysmic lava flows, spawned the dinosaurs, lifted up the Rockies, encased the Northern Hemisphere in continental glaciers and, toward the end, gave rise to modern human culture.
        His other interests included environmental geology and palynology, the study of living or fossil plant spores and pollen. He published many research papers on various geological periods.
        At his death, Dr. Sirkin was working on two book chapters about the geology of Block Island and the Hudson River. He also had completed his first novel, ''Who Killed the C.E.O. of Prophet College,'' which his family hopes to have published.
        With C. K. Seyfert, he wrote a textbook, ''Earth History and Plate Tectonics'' (Harper & Row; 2nd ed., 1979). Three other books on the geology of Block Island (1994), eastern Long Island (1995) and western Long Island (1996) remain in print at Book & Tackle publishers.
        Leslie Arthur Sirkin was born in Dover, Del., and graduated from Hamilton College in 1954. He received his M.A. in 1957 from Cornell University, specializing in stratigraphy, sedimentation and paleontology, and a Ph.D. in micropaleontology and palynology from New York University in 1965.
        He joined the faculty at Adelphi University in Garden City in 1962 and became the founding chairman of the earth sciences department five years later.
        He was chairman again in the 1980's and 1990's and retired in 1996 as professor of earth sciences in the College of Arts and Sciences.
        His wife, Joanne Sirkin, died in 1982.
        Dr. Sirkin is survived by his fiancee, Judith FitzGibbon; three daughters, Annie Ledoux of Wareham, Mass., Emily Melcher of Acton, Mass., and Carolyn Sirkin of Brooklyn; and one granddaughter.
      