
        Uriah Jones 2nd, who in 1968 became the first African-American to make a United States Olympic fencing team and who will be inducted into the United States Fencing Hall of Fame today, died June 14. He was 75.
        A staff member at St. Raphael's Hospital in New Haven, who declined to speak for attribution, said Jones apparently died in the sauna at the Y.M.C.A. in nearby Hamden, Conn., and was taken to the hospital. Douglas Jones, a son, said the family was told that his father had suffered a heart attack.
        In 1964, Jones was ranked fourth in the world among foil fencers. In 1971, he became the first African-American to win a United States fencing championship. That year he also won an individual bronze medal and a team gold in the Pan American Games.
        In July 1999 he was elected to the United States Fencing Hall of Fame in Austin, Tex. His son Douglas planned to fly there this morning to accept the award.
        Peter Westbrook of New York, who fenced in the last six Olympics, said Jones, by breaking the color barrier, was a key part of the sport's history.
        ''The first opens doors, like Jackie Robinson,'' said Westbrook, who in 1984 became the first African-American fencer to win an Olympic medal, a bronze. ''Uriah Jones made it easy for other African-Americans. If fencing was a big sport like baseball, he'd be a national hero.''
        Allan Keim, who was once coached by Jones, said the task was not easy.
        ''Fencing was dominated by white society and by Europeans,'' Keim said. ''Uriah broke into that circle. Nobody knew him. He had to establish himself. It was tough because of his color, and he got into fencing at a later age than most people.''
        And as Douglas Jones said: ''He was very bitter because he reached such heights and still had difficulty getting sponsors. It was a different era.''
        Uriah Jones was born Dec. 15, 1924, in Harlem and grew up in New Rochelle, N.Y. He would watch an Errol Flynn movie with friends, then fence with them with sticks. As he later described it, ''I was pretty handy.''
        In the late 1950's, after fencing lessons at the New Haven Y.M.C.A., he went to New York for advanced instruction. At one fencing academy, he said, he was told, ''We don't teach your kind.'' At Salle Santelli, the celebrated fencing master Giorgio Santelli welcomed Jones, taught him and allowed him to pay what he could. Jones later would refer to Santelli as ''my dad.''
        He attended Hampton Institute, Cooper Union and Columbia and became a civil engineering draftsman for the city of New Haven. He lived in West Haven.
        He was left-handed and one of the first fencers to train with weights. Edward Ballinger, an Olympic and Salle Santelli teammate, said: ''He was very impressive looking, big, tall, with muscles. He was physically intimidating on the fencing strip. He could make people afraid of him.''
        Jones was divorced in 1975 and was estranged from his family afterward. He is survived by his sons, Uriah 3rd of Middletown, Conn.; Douglas of Essex, Conn.; Jeffrey of Birmingham, Ala.; and Noah of Westbrook, Conn.
        Uriah Jones was most proud of breaking a color barrier. He said: ''I have noted, with some satisfaction, that since I retired from competition in 1973, many of the doors are gone. The sport of American fencing is better for the changes.''
      