
        Charles Snitow, who created some of the nation's largest trade shows and a series of trade fairs in New York that helped open Eastern Europe to commerce during the height of the Cold War, died on June 28 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y., according to his daughter, Ann. He was 93.
        Mr. Snitow was practicing law when he began his career as a trade show impresario in 1946 at the request of several hardware manufacturers who were his clients. His first National Hardware Show in the Grand Central Palace Hotel in New York had 346 exhibitors. Now staged at the McCormick Place in Chicago, the show typically attracts more than 3,000 exhibits.
        Mr. Snitow gradually gave up law as he went on to organize the International Automobile Show, which annually attracted hundreds of thousands of visitors to the New York Coliseum after that hall opened in 1956; the Fancy Food and Confection Show (later moved to San Francisco); the International Photo Fair; and starting in 1967, the Consumer Electronics Show. Other shows were built around hobbies, home improvements and, in one quickly abandoned venture, amateur art.
        Mr. Snitow's most ambitious project was a series of World Trade Fairs starting in 1957. The first, which had exhibits from 59 nations, including Communist-run Poland and Yugoslavia, attracted 732,000 visitors over two weeks in April and generated more than $1 billion in trade, according to Mr. Snitow's report at the time. In a closing ceremony, Eleanor Roosevelt congratulated the participants ''who showed a desire to bring the community of the world together.''
        In 1959, President Dwight D. Eisenhower visited the fair and likened Mr. Snitow's efforts in organizing it to the planning of the Normandy invasion. That same year, after carefully securing an explicit endorsement from the State Department, Mr. Snitow mounted the first extensive show of products and technology from the Soviet Union.
        Mr. Snitow never wavered in his belief that international trade would bolster the prospects for peace. His last show, organized in the basement of the Javits Convention Center in 1991, was called the Eastern and Central European Trade Exposition.
        Charles Snitow was born on Feb. 7, 1907, on the kitchen table of his family's apartment in the Hell's Kitchen section of Manhattan, the son of Aaron Snitow and Mary Sackowitz, who were recent immigrants from Russia. The family lived upstairs from the his fathers' small variety store.
        He graduated from Cornell in 1928 and from its law school in 1930. While at the law school, he co-founded the Curia Law Society after being told that none of the existing legal clubs would admit Jews. He also pursued his love of singing throughout his academic career. He sang with the Metropolitan Opera Chorus, the Schola Cantorum and the Collegiate Chorale and called singing under the direction of Arturo Toscanini one of the high points of his life.
        Mr. Snitow had a penchant for Cuban cigars and tailored three-piece suits, but his elegant appearance was counterbalanced by a down-to-earth personality. He would break into snippets of popular songs at any time, recalled Rita Loni, his assistant for 33 years. While he always flew first class, he insisted on the same treatment for his staff, she said. His generally successful relations with the many trade unions that could make exhibiting in New York a nightmare rested in part on his ability, based on his background, to connect personally with union leaders.
        ''The only time I ever heard him holler at anyone was at a union leader during a trade dispute at the Coliseum,'' Ms. Loni said. ''Then he took him across the street for a drink at the Mayflower, and they settled it quickly.''
        Mr. Snitow sold his exhibition company to Cahners Publishing in 1969 but worked as a consultant to Cahners and, after the business was sold in 1977 to Reed Exhibitions, to its new owners.
        Mr. Snitow married the former Virginia Levitt in 1935. He enlisted in the Coast Guard during World War II after physical disabilities excluded him from the draft. In addition to his daughter, who lives in New York, he is survived by his wife; a son, Alan M. Snitow of Berkeley, Calif.; and a granddaughter.
      