
        Paul Gerhart Hatfield, a senior United States district judge in Montana who as a Democratic senator in 1978 provided the decisive 67th vote to ratify the Panama Canal treaties, died on Monday at his home in Great Falls, Mont. He was 72.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, the local coroner's office said.
        Judge Hatfield was the chief justice of the Montana Supreme Court in Helena when Gov. Thomas L. Judge named him to the United States Senate. He filled a vacancy opened in January 1978 by the death of Senator Lee Metcalf, a Democrat, who had recommended the judge as his successor.
        The unexpired term had only a year left, but Judge Hatfield made history when he announced after just 53 days in the Senate that he would vote to cede the canal to Panamanian sovereignty. The announcement branded him ''the 67th senator,'' and treaty opponents did not let him forget it, dubbing him ''Panama Paul.''
        Treaty supporters, including President Jimmy Carter, had dined and lobbied the novice lawmaker, but he said the decision was his alone. Indeed, he said, ''that's what a judge's life is, making decisions.''
        By then he had declared his candidacy for a full term, but well after Representative Max Baucus had done so. In the primary campaign, the Democratic contenders found nothing but good to say about each other, but an anti-treaty ground swell gripped Montana.
        Judge Hatfield's campaign turned into a shambles. Mr. Baucus walked away with the nomination and remains in the Senate today. He remembered his fellow Montanan as ''one of the most decent and thoughtful people I've had the privilege of knowing.''
        Judge Hatfield had run for office only once before, in a sedate and affordable campaign for the Montana Supreme Court. He returned there as a staff attorney in 1979, but later that year President Carter named him a federal judge for the District of Montana.
        He was elevated to chief judge in 1990 and served in that capacity until he took senior status in 1996.
        Paul Hatfield was born in Great Falls and studied at the College of Great Falls. The Army called him to active duty in 1951 and sent him to wartime Korea as a signal corpsman.
        After graduation from the University of Montana Law School in 1955, he went into private practice in Great Falls, including a turn as a partner in Hatfield & Hatfield. He then served as a county prosecutor and Montana district court judge, before becoming chief justice of the State Supreme Court in 1977.
        Judge Hatfield's wife of 34 years, Dorothy Ann Allen Hatfield, died in 1992. His survivors include two daughters, Kathleen Hatfield of Washington, and Susan Robinson of Reno, Nev.; and a son, Paul, of Spokane, Wash.
      