
        Gustaw Herling, whose memoir, ''A World Apart,'' was one of the first and among the most powerful and enduring accounts of life and death in the Soviet network of prisons and labor camps, died on Tuesday in Naples, Italy, the Polish Embassy in Rome said. He was 81 and lived in Naples.
        Mr. Herling was Polish by birth and language and in much of his sensibility, but as in the case of his fellow writer and countryman Joseph Conrad, whom he greatly admired, he never lived in his native land after leaving it as a young man. A veteran of bitter combat as a soldier in the Polish military corps fighting with the Allies in central Italy during World War II, he later married the daughter of Benedetto Croce, the Italian philosopher and anti-Fascist, and settled in Naples.
        But unlike Conrad, who in 1874 went to the West to escape Russian oppression, Mr. Herling as a young man went East, setting off on an impulsive, romantically patriotic and ultimately tragic journey that led him to the horrors of Soviet imprisonment, horrors that were then largely unknown except by those who experienced them.
        When German forces began their lightning invasion of Poland in September 1939 to begin World War II,  Mr. Herling was then a 20-year-old student at Warsaw University, studying Polish literature and reading the French neo-Thomist Jacques Maritain and Croce's works on aesthetics. He was the editor of the university's literary journal, and he belonged to an anti-fascist student group. Within days after the attack he was heading East with the intention of finding weapons to resist the Germans, who had already occupied the western part of his country.
        He never found the arms, but as he kept searching in what had been Eastern Poland, Russia, acting in accordance with Moscow's secret nonaggression pact with Hitler, also  attacked Poland, grabbing what territory remained. Mr. Herling was arrested by Stalin's secret police, thrown into a crowded prison and confronted by officers who hurled seemingly absurd accusations at him. As he wrote in ''A World Apart'' (which appeared 12 years later, in 1951), his interrogator pointed to the high leather boots he was wearing, a gift from his sister, and said they proved he was a major in the Polish Army. There also was the matter of his name, Herling, which in Russian was rendered into ''Gerling.'' That was enough for the prosecutor to accuse him of being a relative of Hermann Goring, the Field Marshal of the German Air Force.
        After months of imprisonment and repeated interrogations, the charges against Mr. Herling were reduced to just one accusation: ''Attempting to cross the Soviet-Lithuanian frontier in order to fight the Soviet Union.''
        At the last interrogation, he wearily asked if the words ''to fight against Germany'' could be substituted. Then, he wrote, ''A blow to the face brought me back to my senses. 'It comes to the same thing anyway,' the judge consoled me as I signed the confession of guilt which had been placed in front of me.'' He was sentenced to five years of the hardest labor and transported by slow trains to Yercova, a section of the Kargopol prison camps above Archangel on the White Sea.
        With remarkable dispassion he wrote ''A World Apart,'' which is less about his own sufferings and anguish than about what was experienced by those around him. He described the old criminals who with the blessings of authorities imposed harsh order. He detailed the hunts for female prisoners by gangs of rapists. He wrote about the backbreaking work in the forests that inevitably caused malnourished prisoners to collapse. He described a house where dying people were sent to await death on less than half the normal meager rations.
        He wrote of betrayals, self-mutilations and hunger, but mostly he wrote about people enduring the gulag: the still-believing Communists who saw their own suffering as historically justified, the man who escaped and walked into the wilderness for a week before blundering back to the camp, the woman who risked punishment by passing him a tattered copy of Dostoyevsky's ''House of the Dead,'' which revealed to him persistent echoes of brutality and suffering in Russia.
        Mr. Herling described how a prisoner's personality is deliberately broken down by his captors, how his ''thoughts and emotions become loosened in their original positions and rattle against each other like the parts of a broken-down machine.'' Then, he said, ''the whole world suddenly shrinks to the limits of the camp'' and the captive ''begins to dread the prospect of having again to live at liberty,'' because ''at the very depth of human degradation there occur moments when every possibility of change, even change for the better, appears risky and dangerous.''
        In 1942, after German troops broke the Hitler-Stalin pact and attacked the Soviet Union, Stalin approved an amnesty for his Polish prisoners. But six months later, Mr. Herling still was forced to remain in his camp. His memoir concludes with a description of how he finally gained his release by going on a hunger strike and setting off -- sick, weak and ragged -- in search of one of the recruiting offices where a Polish army was being raised. He was bold enough, however, to steal his prisoner photographs from his dossier as Labor Inmate No. 1872.
        He managed to find a recruiter and enlist in the Polish military force that wound its way through Kazakhstan, Iran, Palestine and Egypt and across the Libyan desert. In 1943 he was with this unit as it took part in the Allied assault up the boot of Italy. He was a member of the Polish assault troops that sustained huge casualties before finally overwhelming the German positions at the Benedectine abbey at Monte Cassino, which for months had blocked the Allied advance on Rome. For his  bravery in that breakthrough battle,  Mr. Herling, then a radioman, was awarded the Virtuti Militari, Poland's highest military medal.
        When the war ended he made his way to England, where he lived and wrote for some years, publishing ''A World Apart'' seven years before Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn drew on similar but somewhat later experiences to write ''A Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich'' and gain an international readership. Over the years that followed, Mr. Herling's writing  would regularly be compared in its artistic, psychological and moral force to the works of Mr. Solzhenitsyn, to Dostoyevsky's ''House of the Dead'' (which he had read through twice in his term of forced labor) and to Primo Levi's ''Survival in Auschwitz.'' But his work would be banned in his native country because of its author's anti-communism.
        When ''A World Apart'' first appeared, its impact was blunted by Soviet sympathizers in the West who denied or minimized the existence of the chain of Soviet prisons and forced labor camps that Mr. Solzhenitsyn would later label the Gulag Archipelago. In his preface to ''A World Apart,'' Bertrand Russell wrote about those letter-writing apologists: ''Those who write such letters and those fellow travelers who allow themselves to believe them share responsibility for the almost unbelievable horrors which are being inflicted upon millions of wretched men and women, slowly done to death by hard labor and starvation in the Arctic cold.''
        After leaving England and settling in Naples, Mr. Herling continued to write in Polish, primarily for Kultura, the remarkable publication he helped Jerzy Giedroyc establish outside Paris in 1947. Kultura virtually sustained Polish culture through the decades when Communists ruled Poland and sought to censor free expression. Mr. Herling contributed critical essays and excerpts from his ''Diary Written at Night, ''which he kept through the 1970's, 80's and 90's.
        After the the collapse of Communism in 1989, Mr. Herling began to visit his native land, where he was born Gustaw Herling-Grudzinski in the town of Kielce in 1919. His censored books were all published, excerpts from his diary were offered weekly by a major Warsaw newspaper, and his comments commanded attention from the media.
        In his essays and interviews, he frequently demonstrated a feisty aggressiveness in disputing the conversions of former Communists. In 1997 he touched off much controversy in Poland by publishing a short story called ''Beata Santa,'' which is about a Polish girl detained in a prison camp run by Bosnian Serbs during the war who is raped many times by her captors. Unlike other raped prisoners who found themselves pregnant and arranged for abortions once they were freed, the Polish girl heeds the instructions of her church and decides to have her baby. She dies in childbirth.
        ''I was provoked by a man whom I admire very much, John Paul II,'' Mr. Herling said in discussing the motives that led him to write the story. ''But he made an appeal to young girls who have been raped in Bosnia not to have abortions. I thought it was very unjust -- terrible.''
        Aside from ''A World Apart'' and some essays collected in anthologies,  most readers in English would know only one other work by Mr. Herling, ''The Island,'' a novel consisting of three linked tales(published in 1967 by World and again in 1992 by Viking). The common theme that subtly ties together stories set hundreds of years apart is Mr. Herling's view that ''conflict, all real conflict, is actually just of one kind: between the recognition of the essential worth of a man and its cancellation.''
        In reviewing ''The Island,'' for The New York Times Book Review in 1992, Louis Begley, the Polish-born author of the World War II memoir ''Wartime Lies,'' said it ''rightfully belongs to the canon of great works of literature,'' and expressed the hope that its publication would make more widely known a writer ''of extraordinary talent and scope.''
        Mr. Begley found the three tales linked by ''the atrocious persistence of life, and of a kind of hope, in the face of pain, humiliation and extremes of solitude. The title story is set on Capri; the paradisiacal beauty of 'the pearl of the Mediterranean' is rendered with the eye for detail and descriptive gifts of a nature writer. So is the contrast, in the story called 'The Tower,' between the Val d'Aosta, a 'domain of darkness,' and the green countryside where the valley suddenly opens up and makes the traveler forget how 'nature has imprisoned this colored bowl in a fist of naked peaks and glaciers.'
        Mr. Begley said of Mr. Herling: ''Like too many great Eastern European writers, he has suffered the double misfortune of being exiled from the country where his language is spoken and yet confined within that country's language, which is not in international use.''
      