
        Alan M. Fortunoff, who transformed a mom-and-pop store in Brooklyn selling pots and pans to a Fifth Avenue retailer specializing in discounted jewelry and home furnishings, died on Tuesday at his home in Old Westbury, N.Y. He was 67.
        The cause was liver cancer, said Arlene Putterman, a Fortunoff spokeswoman.
        Mr. Fortunoff, who was president and chief executive of the family-run retailer, Fortunoff Fine Jewelry and Silverware, helped begin its transformation in 1964. That was when he encouraged his parents, the store's founders, Max and Clara Fortunoff, to follow their customers to the suburb of Westbury, N.Y.
        Soon after the move, he took control of the jewelry business, while his sister, Marjorie, ran the home furnishings division. Together, they opened branches of the store in Wayne, Paramus and Woodbridge in New Jersey, and, in October 1979, on Fifth Avenue.
        Friends say Mr. Fortunoff was a quiet man who intuitively knew what others wanted. Never pretentious, they say he even insisted on serving small hot dogs as appetizers at fancy parties, because he thought that was what guests liked to eat.
        Mr. Fortunoff became president of Fortunoff after his sister died in 1983. An astute retailer, he built his business by undercutting competitors. From 1985 to 1995, he led an effort to build a retail mall adjacent to the 213,000-square-foot Westbury store as a way of increasing business. He put his company on the Internet more than five years ago. And he encouraged his children to work in the store on holidays and weekends, in an effort to ensure that Fortunoff would remain in the family. Five of his six children are involved in the business.
        Mr. Fortunoff's parents founded the store, described as the first discount retailer in the New York metropolitan area, in 1922, the year they married. Mr. Fortunoff's childhood home was the back part of the store. He grew up sweeping floors, trimming windows and creating displays.
        Though he always intended to work for his parents, Mr. Fortunoff graduated from New York University in 1953 with adegree in business, and from its law school in 1955. He earned a master's degree in international law there in 1974.
        He met his wife of 47 years, Helene, at N.Y.U. After marrying, the couple worked together closely at Fortunoff, expanding the product line. He focused on his favorite, antique silver, while she took control of jewelry marketing. Mrs. Fortunoff remains in charge of Fortunoff's  jewelry marketing.
        Mr. Fortunoff contributed to several local and national organizations.  He raised the ire of some local nonprofit groups when he underwrote a concert series run by a for-profit group in 1981. Mr. Fortunoff said at the time that he was sponsoring the series because he had the ''freedom of choice of putting my money where I want to'' and because he felt the concerts had mass appeal.
        He also contributed to several Jewish organizations, including the Fortunoff Video Archive for Holocaust Testimonies at Yale University and the Salomon Schechter School of Manhattan. He was a trustee of the New York University Law Center Foundation and a member of the Dean's Advisory Council of the Stern School of Business at the university.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Fortunoff is survived by four daughters, Esther Fortunoff-Greene, of Old Westbury; Ruth Fortunoff-Cooper, of Manhattan; Andrea Fortunoff of Long Island; and Rhonda Fortunoff, of Eugene, Ore.,; two sons, David Fortunoff, of Manhattan, and Louis Fortunoff, of Brookville, N.Y.; and two grandchildren.
      