
        Donald Henry Parker, who invented a color-coded reading program 40 years ago that has been used by millions of schoolchildren around the world, died on June 14 at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 88.
        Dr. Parker's program, SRA Reading Laboratories, was one of the first programs intended for remediation and encouraging students to learn at their own pace. The program, which reached its peak of popularity in the 1960's and 70's, permits individual students to advance to increasing levels of difficulty, each level keyed to a different color.
        ''It is desirable to provide a schooling situation in which each learner may start where he is and move ahead as fast and as far as his learning rate and capacity will let him,'' Dr. Parker said in his book ''School for Individual Excellence'' (Thomas Nelson & Son, 1963).
        Ruth Cochrane, vice president-publisher of SRA/McGraw-Hill in Columbus, Ohio, said: ''What's great about the system is that students compete with themselves. They don't have to worry about the other kid who was sitting next to them.''
        Dr. Parker, a native of Syracuse,  was studying for a master's degree in psychology and working as a reading teacher in Bradford County, Fla., when he began to develop the program. As a teacher, he noticed that the slower learners fell further behind their classmates when he taught them all from the same textbook.
        So he created a system of folders and workbooks designed to help students master one level before moving to the next. Working at their own rates, students largely avoided comparisons with classmates at higher or lower levels of competence.
        Dr. Parker later opened a reading laboratory at the University of North Carolina and began work on a doctoral degree at Columbia University. In 1957, he took the idea to Science Research Laboratories, which marketed the curriculum to schools. The program was eventually extended to science, vocabulary, literature and spelling.
        Dr. Parker, a World War II Navy veteran, is survived by his wife, Fritzi; a daughter, Dona Parker of Atlanta; a granddaughter and three great-grandchildren.
      