
        Arnie Weinmeister, the Pro Football Hall of Fame defensive tackle who starred for the Giants in the early 1950's, then forged a second career as a leader of the Teamsters union, died June 28 at a hospital in Seattle. He was 77.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Weinmeister was among the biggest players of his day, at 6 feet 4 inches and 235 pounds, but was known for his quickness.
        ''It was a wonder to see him on the field,'' said Dante Lavelli, the star end for the old Cleveland Browns, who lined up opposite Weinmeister when the Giants and the Browns built their rivalry. ''He was one of the first big men who could move that quickly.''
        Buck Shaw, the coach of the San Francisco 49ers, said in 1954: ''Weinmeister is the outstanding tackle in the N.F.L. One man can't handle him.''
        Weinmeister was born in Rhein, Saskatchewan, to German immigrants who moved to Portland, Ore., when he was a child, and then to Seattle. He played three seasons for the University of Washington as a tackle and end, before and after serving in the Army artillery during World War II.
        After graduating with a degree in economics, Weinmeister joined the New York Yankees of the All-America Football Conference in 1948. He played both offensive and defensive tackle for two seasons, then went to the Giants of the National Football League, together with the Yankee defensive back Tom Landry, when the All-America league went out of business.
        In Weinmeister's first three seasons with the Giants, they were conference runners-up to the Browns, using Coach Steve Owen's umbrella defense, which featured an innovative four-man secondary. Weinmeister and his fellow tackle Al DeRogatis were anchors of the line while the defensive backs -- most notably Landry and Emlen Tunnell -- spread out like an umbrella.
        ''Steve was a very down-to-earth guy, a great defensive coach,'' Weinmeister said. ''We wound up having the best defense in the league, but we didn't score any points to speak of.''
        Landry, who would gain renown as coach of the Dallas Cowboys, once remarked how Weinmeister was adept at analyzing plays.
        ''If you wanted to know where the opponent's ball was, all you had to do was look for Arnie's jersey number,'' he said.
        Weinmeister played for the Giants from 1950 to 1953 and was selected for the Pro Bowl each season. He then joined the British Columbia Lions of the Canadian Football League as a player-coach, winning a court battle with the Giants, who maintained that he still belonged to them.
        He was elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1984.
        After leaving football in 1956, Weinmeister became an organizer for the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. He was director of the 13-state, 400,000-member, Seattle-based Western Conference of Teamsters in the late 1980's and early 1990's and served as the union's second vice president. He was also president of Joint Council 28, covering 20 Teamsters locals in Washington, northern Idaho and Alaska, and was secretary-treasury of Local 117 in Seattle before retiring in 1992.
        In 1988, when the Justice Department filed suit to remove the Teamsters' senior leadership, charging that it had made a ''devil's pact'' with organized crime, it accused Weinmeister and the 17 other members of the executive board of failing to root out corruption.
        Under a consent decree, scores of union officials were removed by overseers. Weinmeister remained in office. He said in a 1988 deposition that he had no knowledge of organized crime other than what he had read in the newspapers or had seen in the ''Godfather'' movies.
        Weinmeister is survived by his wife, Joey, of Seattle; two sons, Hans, of Anchorage, and Jason, of Scottsdale, Ariz.; two daughters, Kirsten Weinmeister, of Duvall, Wash., and Gretchen Slater, of Anchorage; eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        In his football days, Weinmeister could be as hard on teammates as he was on opponents. Roosevelt Brown, the Giants' longtime offensive tackle, would recall having met his match when he faced Weinmeister during workouts.
        Brown, who like Weinmeister was noted for his quickness, would also become a Hall of Famer. But when he practiced pulling out and cutting off the inside defender, he could not shake off Weinmeister.
        ''With Weinmeister, it was impossible,'' Brown remembered. ''He was very, very fast himself and one of the toughest to go up against. Fortunately, I only had to do that in practice.''
      