
        Emory Orgustus Cunningham, a publishing executive who served up recipes for sweet potato pie and a rosy view of a new suburban South emerging from the region's rural poverty and decades of racial strife, died of pneumonia on Monday in Birmingham, Ala., where he lived. He was 78.
        Mr. Cunningham launched his Martha Stewart-like vision of a glossy new Dixie in 1966 in a magazine called Southern Living. Its circulation grew from an initial 200,000 to 2.5 million.
        The magazine was acquired, with its sister publications, by Time Inc. in 1985. At the time, the price was the largest ever paid for a publishing company.
        The magazine's influence was such that The Birmingham News suggested that Mainers who made cheese grits or Nebraskans with a good recipe for pecan toffee could probably thank Southern Living. But the magazine also peddled a new kind of Southern stereotype, one that Howell Raines, the editorial page editor of The New York Times who is a native of Birmingham, called the Southern Living disease in a 1989 article in The Times Book Review.
        Mr. Raines, who was then the paper's Washington editor, said the ''relentlessly cheerful'' magazine was ''devoted to depicting the region as one endless festival of barbecue, boiled shrimp, football Sundays and good old Nashville music.''
        The magazine's February issue seems at least partly to support this view with its holiday recipe contest, tips for a weekend in Charleston, S.C., and several articles about traditional Southern crafts.
        John Shelton Reed, a sociologist at the University of North Carolina, said in 1993 that Southern Living's perspective, ''with its relentlessly upbeat glimpses of a convivial suburban South of mum and marigold gardens,'' had replaced the South of ''Gone with the Wind.'' Indeed, Mr. Reed said the Southern Living attitude had become the vision enunciated by President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore.
        But even at Southern Living, changes are noticeable. The current issue also features a short travel guide to the new Birmingham Civil Rights Institute, which addresses the gritty details of the South's racial history, including a display of ''white'' and ''colored'' drinking fountains.
        Mr. Cunningham often said his secret of success was treating readers like neighbors. His own life suggests the extensive changes that have swept over Dixie. Born to a farmer and a teacher, Mr. Cunningham and five siblings grew up in Kansas, Ala., a speck of a town about 60 miles west of Birmingham. He graduated from Mississippi Gulf Junior College, served as a Navy pilot in World War II and received a degree in agriculture from Auburn University.
        He immediately took a job selling advertisements for Progressive Farmer magazine, setting sales records in the magazine's Chicago office. For the next 20 years he was, among other things, editor, advertising manager and publisher of Progressive Farmer. The magazine, which was founded in 1886, was the leading farm magazine in the South.
        Mr. Cunningham pressed the argument that as the South rapidly urbanized, Progressive Farmer's potential growth in readership was limited. With Southern Living, he wanted to reach the growing number of people who lived in cities and their suburbs, though he still saw their country backgrounds as perhaps their most important commonality.
        ''Nearly every adult who was born and raised in the South either lived as a child in the country or his parents did, so he always had a first generation contact with the country,'' Mr. Cunningham said in a 1981 interview.
        He said the treatment of the South in national magazines was insulting to Southerners, creating a market for his own product. ''There's been less acceptance of national magazines in the South than in other regions,'' he said.
        Mr. Cunningham, who was 6 foot 3 and had an ''aw shucks'' manner, was chief executive of the Southern Progress Corporation from 1968 until 1987. In his last two years with Southern Progress, when Time owned the company, he was also a Time vice president.
        Among his achievements was greatly expanding the reach of Oxmoor House, the company's book-publishing division. For example, in 1976 Oxmoor produced a book called ''Jericho: The South Beheld.'' It had reproductions of paintings by Hubert Shuptrine and an evocative text by the poet and novelist James Dickey. Using direct mail, Oxmoor immediately sold all 150,000 copies.
        Roy Reed, writing in The New York Times, said Mr. Cunningham at the time suggested that the company might want to expand further, ''but like a farmer with one eye down the road, he allows that he had better attend to what he has before he thinks about starting something new.'' Mr. Reed added: ''Magazine publishers can interpret that in one of two ways. Emory Cunningham might buy them out, or he might not.''
        The truth was that Mr. Cunningham spent much of his time trying to elude Northern companies intent on buying Southern Progress. In 1973, when Time first expressed interest in the company, he warned its executives not to come to Birmingham in their corporate jet, so as not to set off rumors among his corporate staff. In 1984, he had publicly proclaimed that the company would never be sold to a Yankee interloper.
        But in 1985, when Time returned, its offer, $480 million, was irresistible. Southern Progress's four magazines were the first that Time had bought rather than started.
        ''To call Emory Cunningham merely the most successful publisher of regional magazines in the United States is to slight a shining career,'' said Reginald Brack Jr., then president of Time's magazine group.
        In 1976, the 10th anniversary of Southern Living, Mr. Cunningham was named publisher of the year by the United States Magazine Publishers, a trade association.
        Mr. Cunningham is survived by his wife, Jeanne; two sons, James Emory and David Lee, and two daughters, Sara Cunningham Bright and Mary Cunningham Beck, all of Birmingham. He is also survived by three sisters, Charlene Cunningham Oden of Russellville, Ark.; Doras Cunningham Allen of Carbon Hill, Ark., and Frances Cunningham Nix of Kansas, Ark., and eight grandchildren.
        Mr. Cunningham, who traveled to more than 50 countries to study agricultural practices, was an ecologist years before it became fashionable. When Southern Progress built an office tower, he chose the design of an inverted pyramid to avoid harming the root systems of nearby trees. Visitors to his Shelby County farm were seldom allowed to leave without an armload of prize-winning tomatoes.
        He liked to recall Clarence Darrow's accusing a courtroom opponent of looking for God ''too far away.'' In 1983, he told The Atlanta Weekly, ''If we want this country to be all it can be, we start with the little things that are around us.''
      