
        William J. McGowan, a founder of the New York City Police Department Emerald Society, a fraternal organization of Irish-American police officers, died Saturday in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 76 and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        The cause was heart failure, his son William McGowan said.
        The New York City Police Department Emerald Society is the oldest of its kind and now has 10,000 active members, said the current president, Joseph J. Keenan Jr.
        Unlike previous Irish societies, which were centered on religion or  ancestors' county of origin, the Emerald Societies that began to take root in the 1950's were for those of Irish descent in a particular occupation. Among the other Emerald Societies are those for sanitation workers, firefighters and telephone workers.
        The New York City Police Department Emerald Society was founded in 1953, long after the time when being a New York police officer was practically synonymous with being Irish. The founding of the society was an indication of how much the Irish had assimilated into American society, and of the increasing diversity of the Police Department.
        ''It was as things started to wane,'' said Frank McLoughlin, a former newspaper reporter who became a deputy police commissioner. ''People kind of said, 'Jeez, we'd better get together.' ''
        William John McGowan was born Oct. 23, 1923, in Brooklyn. At 17, he joined the Navy, where he became a chief petty officer. In 1947, he joined the New York Police Department, a member of the third generation in his family to do so. He rose from patrol duty to detective, eventually becoming head of what was known as the Hippie Squad, assigned to track down and return runaway teenagers. He retired in 1972 as a detective captain.
        His wife of 48 years, the former Ellen Lilienthal, died last year at 72.
        In addition to his son William, of Brooklyn, Mr. McGowan is survived by four other sons, Bryan, of San Francisco, Kevin, of Brooklyn, Sean, of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., and Terrance, of Manhattan; three daughters, Ellen McGowan-Salter of Agoura, Calif., Laureen Quinn of Alpharetta, Ga., and Regina McGowan Pezanowski of Groton, Mass.; and 17 grandchildren.
        After his retirement in 1972, Mr. McGowan opened Danny Boy's Pub, at 50th Street and Second Avenue in Manhattan, which was frequented by newspaper reporters, sports figures, judges, labor leaders and lawyers of Irish extraction, said Frank Cull, a columnist for The Irish Echo who knew Mr. McGowan for 35 years. Mr. McGowan sold the pub in 1984.
        ''It was the 'in' place for the Irish-American community,'' Mr. Cull said.
      