
        John V. Aspinall, a rakish millionaire who made his fortune in the port-and-cigar world of upper-class gambling tables in London and devoted it to creating country estates for breeding gorillas and tigers -- species he said he preferred to humans -- died on Thursday in London. He was 74.
        The cause was cancer.
        Believing that man should be guided by primitive instinct rather than reason, and determined to close the gulf between the species, Mr. Aspinall delighted in romping with his wild animals. He also encouraged his zookeepers to do likewise, sometimes with horrific consequences. Five were mauled to death during the last 20 years, the most recent one in February, yet Mr. Aspinall fought off laws that would have barred the workers from the enclosures.
        Of his 30 best friends, he said, half were animals, and he argued that at one time there had been a golden age in which beasts and humans had been equal. Asked once whether he would leave his children in the company of his wild animals, he said, ''I'd rather leave them with gorillas than with a social worker.''
        The success he had in fleecing some of London's more louche aristocrats and rich foreign visitors in his Mayfair gambling clubs and then spending the profits on his own eccentric model of animal protection was sometimes said to have done as much for redistributing the wealth in Britain in the 1960's as the social programs of the liberal intelligentsia who regularly excoriated him for his extreme right-wing views.
        Known as ''Aspers,'' he ran with a high-living set that included business buccaneers like James Goldsmith, Tiny Rowland and Lord Lucan, the Belgravia aristocrat who disappeared in November 1974 after bludgeoning his family's nanny to death with a lead pipe in the darkened foyer of his home, believing her to be his wife.
        What became of Lord Lucan has been a subject of high society rumor and subway wall graffiti ever since, with sightings of the disgraced peer periodically reported in the tabloid press. Mr. Aspinall's death is not likely to end the speculation, which a quarter century of denials has not dimmed, that he and his gambling cronies somehow managed to spirit Lord Lucan out of Britain to a new life abroad.
        John Victor Aspinall was born in India on June 11, 1926, the son of -- or so he long thought -- Robert Aspinall, an army surgeon. Years later,  when he pressed his supposed father for money to cover his gambling debts, he discovered to his delight that he had more exotic origins. His real father was George Bruce, a soldier who had sex with his mother, Mary Grace Horn, under a tamarind tree after a regimental ball.
        At age 6, young Aspinall was sent to preparatory school in England, and in 1938 his mother, divorced by that time, married Sir George Osborne, who paid for the young man to go to private boarding school at Rugby. He was expelled for being ''idle and rebellious,'' and he served in the Royal Marines for three years before going on to Jesus College, Oxford, where he devoted himself to dandified dress and gambling. He boasted of never having attended a single lecture.
        On the day of his final exams at the university, he feigned illness and went to the Gold Cup at Ascot instead. He consequently never earned a degree, but he did bet on the right horse, and his professional life was launched.
        By that time he had fallen under the influence of an adventure book called ''Nada the Lily'' by Rider Haggard about an illegitimate Zulu prince who lived outside his tribe among wild animals. In 1956 Mr. Aspinall married Jane Hastings, a Scottish model, and moved into an Eaton Place apartment, where he built a garden shed housing a Capuchin monkey, a 9-week-old tigress and two Himalayan bears. In what was to become a typical pattern of cavalier behavior, he paid no attention to the annoyance of neighbors.
        At that time, gambling was illegal, and the game he set up had to float from one high-toned address to another to escape the authorities. He attracted so many well-placed players that when the game was finally shut down by the police in 1958, the action led to the passing of a new law permitting gambling.
        In 1962 he opened the Clermont Club on Berkeley Square, which became famous for the Mayfair set that frequented it and for Annabel's in the basement, the dance and dinner club that became London's most fashionable and exclusive evening spot. Membership in Mr. Aspinall's gambling rooms was limited to 600 and included 5 dukes, 5 marquesses and 20 earls.
        Proceeds from the Clermont Club financed the opening of Howletts, Mr. Aspinall's first zoo at a neo-Palladian mansion outside Canterbury. In 1972 he sold the Clermont Club and established his second grand park on 275 acres at Port Lympne near Folkestone. The need for cash prompted him to return to running gambling clubs in London, and he set up two new successful ones in Knightsbridge and Mayfair. In 1983 he made $30 million from their sale, but a decade later he was in financial difficulties again, and in 1992 he set up yet another gambling spot.
        He was often pictured at ease with his beloved wild beasts, having his eyelids delicately tweaked by a gorilla, receiving newly born tiger cubs dumped in his lap by their mother, or being surrounded by a peaceable wolf pack. A tall, rangy man with a booming voice, Mr. Aspinall liked to shock the sedate and once announced that when having sex, he roared like a lion and beat his chest like a gorilla.
        While experts were skeptical of his approach, they were obliged to admire his breeding breakthroughs with Siberian tigers, ocelots and gorillas, and his successes at introducing some of them into the African wild. These triumphs were overshadowed, though, by the deaths of the five assistants, two killed by the same tigress in 1980, one trampled by an elephant in 1984, another mauled by a tiger in 1994, and the last, Darren Cockrill, 27, crushed by an elephant four months ago.
        His Darwinian beliefs led him to make admiring comments about the benefits of diseases like malaria to rid the world of inadequate human stock and cull it of two billion undesirables. But it also led him to support animal preservation and to criticize ''the import of rare animal skins to satisfy the witless wishes of women.'' He had no time for equality of the sexes, saying that his wife ''is the perfect example of the primate female, ready to serve the dominant male and make his life agreeable.''
        In his one political effort, he ran unsuccessfully for Parliament in 1997 as the candidate of his friend Jimmy Goldsmith's single-issue Referendum Party against Britain's deepening involvement in Europe.
        In 1966 he divorced his first wife and married Belinda Musker. Then in 1972, he divorced again and married Lady Sarah Courage, the widow of the racing driver Piers Courage, who had died in a crash two years earlier. Besides her, he is survived by two sons, Damian and Bassa, a daughter, Amanda, and two stepsons, Jason and Amos Courage.
        A family spokesman said on Friday that the two wild animal parks, which now boast 1,100 animals and more than 80 species, would be run by the John Aspinall Foundation ''in the manner and philosophy of their founder'' -- dedicated to preservation rather than exhibition.
        On finding out last year that the cancer in his jaw was probably terminal, Mr. Aspinall had a characteristically bluff reaction. ''You can have 5 to 2 against me making it, or, better yet, I'll give you 3 to 1,'' he said. ''It's a good bet. I only have a 30 percent chance of surviving this.''
      