
        Harold Sack, the nation's pre-eminent dealer in American period furniture, who paid a staggering $12.1 million for an 18th-century Newport desk-bookcase in 1989, died on Saturday night after a brief hospitalization at the South Nassau Communities Hospital in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Oceanside.
        Mr. Sack, who was president of Israel Sack Inc., bought the boldly carved bonnet-topped mahogany secretary by John Goddard at Christie's in New York, stunning the art world by paying what was then the highest price ever at auction for an object other than a painting.
        ''Not all masterpieces hang on the wall,'' Mr. Sack said that day after the gavel came down on his purchase. The desk, which he bought for Robert M. Bass, a Texas financier, was at nine feet high the tallest surviving example of a status symbol for the merchants of Colonial America. Its pedigree was enviable: it was had descended in the family of the original owner, Nicholas Brown of Providence, R.I., from which Brown University took its name.
        Although he was nearly blind and had to use a wheelchair after suffering for a decade from Parkinson's disease, Mr. Sack was until a month ago usually at his desk at the Israel Sack gallery, 730 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, three times a week. He worked there with his younger brothers, Albert, the vice president, and Robert, the treasurer. As recently as January, he had sold another rarity with a million-dollar price tag: an 18th-century Philadelphia Pembroke table that had been discovered recently and was the only known such piece with cabriole legs.
        Mr. Sack came into the family business as president in 1933, fresh out of Dartmouth College, where he was Phi Beta Kappa and had graduated magna cum laude a year earlier, majoring in English literature. The Depression was deepening, the antiques business was in turmoil, and his father, Israel, who had galleries in Boston and New York, was forced to liquidate to pay his debts.
        Abandoning plans to do graduate work at Oxford, Mr. Sack and a colleague formed Israel Sack Inc., a new corporation with two stockholders, few assets and no cash but with Israel Sack's good name and his talent for buying and selling. The elder Mr. Sack, who came to the United States in 1903, had been a cabinetmaker in a small shtetl in Kovno, now Kaunas, in Lithuania, where he was born. After landing in Boston, he worked for two years at making reproductions, repairing antiques and peddling furniture before he founded his own business on Charles Street.
        ''When I was very young and went on buying trips with my father in his open Buick touring car through the Massachusetts countryside, I learned how to recognize masterpieces and to pay more for them,'' Harold Sack said in a 1987 interview. ''My father moved fast, paid high prices and then sold what he bought for even higher prices.''
        These traits made envious dealers at the time call him Crazy Sack. But Israel Sack's knowledge, enthusiasm and savvy about American furniture won over the early collectors of American furniture, including industrialists like Henry Ford and Henry Francis duPont, as well as Francis and Mabel Garvan (utilities and transportation) and Ima Hogg (Texas oil) and Maxim Karolik, a failed opera singer who married Boston money and spent it wisely.
        Harold Sack, too, was always daring in his buying, paying record prices for antiques, especially after his father's death in 1959, when he began to dominate the field. When he blinked or raised his pencil or paddle at auctions, the prices for American antiques rose.
        From the 1960's into the 1990's, bidding with a gambler's gleam in his eye, he rewrote scores of auction records for American furniture. In 1977, he raised the record for American furniture to $135,000, buying a Boston bombe chest. In 1980 he pushed the record to $396,000, for a block-front Newport chest. And in 1983 he did it again, paying $687,500 for a Newport kneehole desk, all at Sotheby's. The $12.1 million he paid at Christie's for the mahogany secretary in 1989 remains the record for American furniture, although an 18th-century Italian cabinet brought $15.2 million in 1990 at Christie's in London.
        Mr. Sack sold these and other choice pieces to postwar industrialists and businessmen, and he also bought for and sold to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Art Institute of Chicago, the Museum of Fine Arts Boston, Colonial Williamsburg and the Henry Francis duPont Winterthur Museum.
        ''Harold Sack's association with the Metropolitan Museum goes back more than 40 years,'' said Morrison H. Heckscher, curator of decorative arts. ''He was a founding member of the Friends of the American Wing and remained one. In 1980, Harold, representing the three Sack brothers, made a generous contribution to the wing to honor their father. His name appears above three Federal period galleries.''
        As a dealer, Mr. Heckscher said, Harold Sack's ''alchemy'' combined ''his charm, his excellent eye, his business acumen and his powerful analytical intelligence.''
        Mr. Sack was born in Lynn, Mass., the eldest child of Israel and Ann Sack, and went to Boston Latin School before Dartmouth. He later served as an adviser to Clement E. Conger, curator of the Diplomatic Reception Rooms at the State Department, in forming that collection. He served as a national trustee throughout the 1980's at the Baltimore Museum of Art and lectured extensively at Colonial Williamsburg, Winterthur and elsewhere. He wrote articles on the history of American furniture and on collecting, and he was author with Max Wilk of ''America Treasure Hunt,'' the story of Israel Sack, the man and the business, published in 1987 by Little, Brown & Company.
        In addition to his brothers, he is survived by his wife, the former Loretta Dorn; four sons, Dr. Kenneth Sack of Tiberon, Calif., David, of Pearland, Tex., Michael, of Philadelphia, and Daniel, of New York; and eight grandchildren.
        Eric Martin Wunsch, a New York consulting engineer and a 40-year veteran of collecting American furniture, said in assessing Mr. Sack's career: ''Harold Sack helped to elevate the field of American antiques radically. When Harold came into the business, if you had money, you bought English or French furniture. But he saw American furniture of the 18th and 19th centuries as a reflection of America's growth, strength and originality. And he helped make collectors see that, too.''
      