
        James C. Quayle, a newspaper publisher from Indiana and the father of former Vice President Dan Quayle, died on Friday at 79.
        Mr. Quayle died at a care center in Sun City West, Ariz., where he had been treated for two and a half years, said his wife, Corinne Pulliam Quayle of Wickenburg, Ariz. The cause was not immediately known, Mrs. Quayle said.
        Mr. Quayle was chairman of Huntington Newspapers Inc. in Indiana and a former member of the John Birch Society.
        He published The Huntington Herald-Press, a daily newspaper in northern Indiana, from 1963 to 1990, with a hiatus of six years that began in 1972 when he turned to publishing The Muncie Star and Evening Press. He and his wife became the owners of The Huntington Herald-Press in 1964.
        Mr. Quayle also served on the board of directors of Central Newspapers Inc., a company founded by his father-in-law, Eugene C. Pulliam.
        Mr. Quayle is survived by his wife and the former vice president, as well as by two other sons, Christopher P. Quayle of Carefree, Ind., and Michael Quayle, publisher of The Vincennes Sun-Commercial, also in Indiana; and a daughter, Martha Quayle Thomas of Monticello, Wis.
        James C. Quayle was born in Joliet, Ill. He began his newspaper career in 1945 when he landed a job as an advertising salesman in Lebanon, Ind. He began selling advertisements for The Portsmouth Daily Times in Ohio in 1947 and moved to Huntington the next year as advertising manager of The Herald-Press.
        In 1955, he went to Phoenix to work as public relations and personnel director for The Arizona Republic and The Phoenix Gazette. He returned to Indiana in 1963 to become publisher of The Huntington Herald-Press and bought the newspaper from Central Newspapers Inc. in 1964.
        In 1988, after his son was nominated for vice president, Mr. Quayle vigorously defended his son's credentials, especially in response to questions about whether Dan Quayle had avoided the draft in the Vietnam War by joining the National Guard. In an article for The New York Times's Op-Ed page in 1988, the elder Mr. Quayle said he was beginning to see the news media in a different light after their questioning of his son's past.
        ''Having spent most of my working life in the newspaper business, I thought I knew something about journalism,'' he wrote. ''Being on the receiving end of a media blitzkrieg, however, gives you a different perspective on the matter -- fast.''
      