
        Henry Pleasants, a music critic and author who doubled as a top American spy in postwar Germany, died at a hospital in London on Jan. 4. He was 89 and lived in London.
        A former colleague at the Central Intelligence Agency said Mr. Pleasants had served as the intelligence agency's station chief in Bonn in the 1950's. ''The Invisible Government,'' a book by David Wise and Thomas B. Ross published in 1964, said he had held the post ''for many years.''
        In an interview yesterday, Mr. Wise said the statement had never been challenged.
        Another book, ''The Old Boys,'' by Burton Hersh, published in 1992, also identified Mr. Pleasants as an American intelligence operative. Several journalists who worked in Germany said they knew him as the C.I.A. station chief.
        William Harlow, a C.I.A. spokesman, said the agency did not confirm whether individuals had served as station chiefs.
        Mr. Pleasants was best known for his books about the voice, which he loved, and contemporary music, about which he became disillusioned in the early 1950's. An earlier version of his obituary, published on Wednesday, focused on his career as a music writer and briefly mentioned his spending four years in the United States Foreign Service, from 1950 to 1954; it did not take account of his C.I.A. activities.
        His first book, ''The Agony of Modern Music'' (1955), caused considerable controversy with its attacks on all contemporary music except jazz.
        ''Serious music is a dead art,'' he began. ''The vein which for 300 years offered a seemingly inexhaustible yield of beautiful music has run out. What we know as modern music is the noise made by deluded speculators picking through its slag pile.''
        The authors of ''The Invisible Government'' pointed out the oddness of the situation. They said Mr. Pleasants ''probably had the distinction of being the only top U.S. spy to become the center of a literary storm.''
        C.I.A. employees in embassies are often listed in the State Department Biographic Register as ''attaches.'' Mr. Pleasants was an ''attache'' with ''S-1'' ranking, meaning the highest category of Foreign Service officer.
        Mr. Pleasants did his intelligence work during the cold war, when espionage and intrigue abounded in Germany. For some months, according to ''The Invisible Government,'' he lived with Reinhard Gehlen, a former Nazi general who was being considered as a top intelligence official for West Germany, to evaluate his suitability. The Gehlen Organization, which the former general led, became the forerunner of the postwar West German Federal Intelligence Service.
        About the same time, Mr. Pleasants was also writing ''Death of a Music?'' and ''Serious Music and All That Jazz'' about contemporary music. His books about voice were ''The Great Singers: From the Dawn of Opera to Our Own Time,'' a 1966 survey that has become a standard reference work, ''The Great American Popular Singers'' and ''Opera in Crisis.'' His last book was ''The Great Tenor Tragedy: The Last Days of Adolphe Nourrit.''
        He was born in Wayne, Pa., and studied at the Philadelphia Music Academy and the Curtis Institute of Music. He began his writing career as a critic for The Philadelphia Evening Bulletin in 1930, when he was 19. He was the music editor from 1935 to 1942, when he joined the Army. After World War II, he was involved in the de-Nazification proceedings against several musicians who were prominently involved in the Third Reich.
        It is not clear when Mr. Pleasants began his service with the C.I.A. Records show him joining the Foreign Service in 1950 and holding various positions in Munich, Bern and Bonn until his retirement in 1954, years in which he also seems to have been with the C.I.A. Mr. Wise said he remained active with the intelligence agency at least until the early 1960's.
        From 1945 to 1955, Mr. Pleasants contributed articles about European music to The New York Times. He later became the London editor of Stereo Review and from 1967 to 1998 was a music critic for The International Herald Tribune.
        He is survived by his wife, the harpsichordist Virginia Pleasants; two sisters, Constantia Bowditch of Peterborough, N.H., and Nancy Logue of Clarksville, Tenn.; and a brother, William, of Bethel, Del.
      