
        Vincent D. McDonnell, whose witty charm as New York State's chief labor mediator helped to settle disputes involving workers ranging from gravediggers to Radio City Music Hall Rockettes, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        His wife of 55 years, the former Eileen Mary Nolan, died on Monday at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center of complications from a stroke.
        Republicans and Democrats alike called on Mr. McDonnell to serve in city and state administrations. He was chairman of the State Mediation Board from 1963 to 1977 under Govs. Nelson A. Rockefeller, Malcolm Wilson and Hugh L. Carey, and worked on New York City labor disputes for Mayors Robert F. Wagner, John V. Lindsay, Abraham D. Beame and Edward I. Koch.
        ''He had an endless store of relevant stories, humorous, that would illustrate a point, and he would use one that fitted at a tense moment in negotiations.'' said Theodore W. Kheel, a fellow mediator who often worked with him. ''It was itself a form of mediation.''
        Mr. McDonnell's skills were tested in a wide range of strikes involving, among others, taxicab drivers, tugboat crews, boiler operators, sanitation workers, racetrack parimutuel clerks, Broadway musicians, and workers at Stuyvesant Town, where he lived.
        Public pressure was often intense as the various disputes canceled ballet and theater productions, shut down schools, halted harbor traffic, created mounds of uncollected garbage and even left corpses unburied.
        Mr. McDonnell explained more than once that he had chosen a red carpet for his office because it concealed ''the blood that's been spilled here.'' He was also fond of quoting a Casey Stengel aphorism: ''They say it can't be done, but that don't always work.''
        Because the use of mediators is voluntary, their first hurdle is to gain the trust of the opposing sides. Mr. Kheel said of Mr. McDonnell: ''He was able to establish a rapport with people on both sides. He was their friend, the friend of the enemies.''
        Mr. McDonnell himself said that a successful mediator ''must have the skill to detect if there are intramural personality problems among negotiators on the same side of the table or personality problems between opposing negotiators.''
        Timing was another factor, Mr. McDonnell said. Sometimes it was fruitful to nudge the parties into all-night marathons, but other times he prescribed a break and a fresh start.
        After leaving his state post, Mr. McDonnell became a partner in the law firm of Shea & Gould and later joined the Rodgers & Wells firm. Although he more often represented management, he also had union clients, including, for the last 22 years, the Detectives Endowment Association of the New York City Police Department.
        Mr. McDonnell joined in the effort to save Radio City Music Hall and the Rockettes from extinction. Working for Madison Square Garden in the early 1980's, he helped keep it in business by seeking concessions from 17 unions and getting government aid.
        In politics, Mr. McDonnell -- ever the mediator -- had friends in both major parties. He served as a campaign chairman for Andrew Stein, a Democrat, when he ran for Manhattan borough president in 1977. But he also advised two Republican presidents, Ronald Reagan and George Bush, on labor issues when they were running for office.
        A lifelong Manhattan resident, Mr. McDonnell was the son of an elevator operator. During World War II, he served in the Army Air Corps intelligence division as a captain and provost marshal at Wright Field in Ohio. After the war, he graduated from New York University and its law school.
        Mr. McDonnell held a series of posts at the United States Veterans Association, Voice of America, General Bronze Corporation and Eagle Pencil Corporation.
        Mr. and Mrs. McDonnell are survived by two sons, James V. and Brian J., of Manhattan, and two daughters, Jeanne T. McDonnell-O'Shea, also of Manhattan, and Mary Theresa McDonnell of Manhattan Beach, Calif.
      