
        William J. Garry, the garrulous editor of Bon Appetit magazine whose editorial eye focused on epicurean pleasures as well as home entertaining, died on Thursday in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 56.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Maurie Perl, a spokeswoman for Conde Nast Publications, the publisher of Bon Appetit.
        Mr. Garry, who edited Bon Appetit for 15 years, helped raise the magazine's circulation to 1.2 million a month. His editor's letter was a frequently discussed staple of the food business.
        Born in San Francisco in 1944, Mr. Garry graduated from Dartmouth College and earned a master of fine arts degree at Columbia University. Intrigued by the theater, he began his career as a stage manager, actor and director.
        He soon shifted his focus to writing and editing, serving in editorial positions at magazines as various as Epicure, several spinoff publications of House Beautiful and a business magazine called Free Enterprise.
        He began his career at Bon Appetit in San Francisco as managing editor in 1980, when the magazine was owned by Knapp Communications. When Conde Nast bought Knapp Communications, which also owned Architectural Digest, in 1993, Mr. Garry came along. The magazine's business operations were then moved to New York.
        His approach to the epicurean arts was free-wheeling. His editor's letter in Bon Appetit's July 2000 issue, for example, details Mr. Garry's park-bench dinner with an Elvis impersonator, at which the impersonator ate a meal of fragrant, soulful barbecued pork and Mr. Garry, ''feeling fairly ridiculous,'' ate a hummus sandwich.
        He was not afraid of ruffling feathers. Bored by food magazines' seemingly predictable coverage of asparagus every spring, Mr. Garry proclaimed an April day last year ''Give Asparagus a Rest Day.'' Three years ago, he was so appalled by the food served at a banquet for the National Magazine Awards, held at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, that he ordered room service.
        And in 1998, when the magazine first published a survey of great American restaurants, rather than accentuate the painstaking science behind the selection process, Mr. Garry told The New York Times in an interview: ''I don't believe in polls. So we sat down and threw a lot of food at each other and came up with the winners.''
        Mr. Garry is survived his wife, Mary Duncan Macnab.
      