
        Raymond T. Ryan, a former president of the Welch Grape Juice Company who helped turn it into the country's dominant seller of grape juice, died on July 4. He was 98.
        ''Welch's could not have achieved the success we have if Ray Ryan had not established the foundation,'' said Daniel P. Dillon, the company's president and chief executive.
        Mr. Ryan's influence in the grape-growing world, and thus on Welch's future, predated his employment at Welch by more than a decade.
        In 1933, Mr. Ryan, out of college for just a year, managed property for Jack Kaplan, a stockbroker who had turned his attention to real estate as the Depression deepened. That year Mr. Ryan, who had a degree in business administration and accounting from Pace College, helped Mr. Kaplan buy a grape-processing plant in Brockton, N.Y.
        In the process, Mr. Ryan learned a good deal about the industry, so when Mr. Kaplan bought the Welch Grape Juice Company in 1945, he made Mr. Ryan its executive vice president in charge of overseeing operations and strengthening relations with grape growers.
        When the National Grape Cooperative Association bought Welch from Mr. Kaplan in 1953, Mr. Ryan stayed in that role. In 1964 he became president. At his behest, Welch expanded its headquarters in Westfield, N.Y., introduced a line of fruit spreads and nongrape drinks, and built what was then the world's largest grape juice storage site.
        During his five-year tenure, the company's sales increased 21 percent, to more than $70 million. Today, the company, which changed its name to Welch Foods Inc. in 1969, has revenue 10 times that amount.
        During his career, Mr. Ryan was active in industry associations, serving as a trustee of the Nutrition Foundation and a director of the National Preservers Association. But Mr. Ryan, who was born in Buffalo in 1901, was particularly active in Westfield, the New York town where Welch was based until it moved to Concord, Mass., in 1982. He was the president of Westfield Memorial Hospital and sat on the planning boards of both the Village and town of Westfield. He was also president of the Westfield Chamber of Commerce and the Westfield Rotary Club.
        In 1970, Mr. Ryan and his wife, Kathryn, whom he married in 1928, moved to Tucson, where their daughter, Susan DiMuro, lives. Mrs. Ryan died in 1994. Earlier this year Mr. Ryan moved to St. Louis to live with his son, Jay. He is survived by both his children, nine grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      