
        Paul L. Erdos, a longtime market research executive who was an authority on mail surveys, died on Wednesday at his home in downtown Manhattan. He was 86.
        Dr. Erdos and Arthur J. Morgan founded Erdos & Morgan, a Manhattan-based market research firm, in 1947. It was the first marketing research organization to specialize in mail surveys. In 1988, Advertising Age called it ''one of the best-known names in print audience research.''
        Recalling Dr. Erdos, Don A. Dillman, the Thomas S. Foley Distinguished Professor of Government and Public Policy at Washington State University, said, ''I was always impressed with how 'people oriented' he seemed to be.''
        Dr. Dillman, who is also the president-elect of the American Association for Public Opinion Research, said Dr. Erdos seemed to be ''treating each recipient of his mail questionnaires as someone from whom he needed help, rather than using the utilitarian approach of 'How can I get them to do what I want them to do?' ''
        With assistance from Mr. Morgan, Dr. Erdos wrote a book, ''Professional Mail Surveys.'' It was first published in 1970, when Erdos & Morgan's longstanding clients included The National Geographic Society, Time Inc., Dow Jones and U.S. Steel. In 1988, Advertising Age called it ''the best-selling, most authoritative text on mail survey research.''
        On Page 1 of the book, Dr. Erdos wrote: ''The basic distinction between mail and other types of surveys is the fact that in surveying by mail there is no person to ask the questions and guide the respondent. This gives rise to important differences in survey design, questionnaire construction, and various other aspects of the survey. These differences result in some advantages and some shortcomings.''
        In 1982, he and Mr. Morgan won the Charles Coolidge Parlin Award, a market research honor awarded by the Philadelphia chapter of the American Marketing Association and the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
        At the time, an article in a publication of the Philadelphia chapter said the two men had done ''pioneering work in mail survey methodology.'' ''Erdos and Morgan were selected for the Parlin Award on the basis of their techniques which have made mail survey data gathering effective, establishing new standards for response rates,'' the article added. ''On their mailings, they average a 60 percent response rate, and in some instances have received over 80 percent.''
        In 1982, Mr. Morgan resigned as executive vice president of Erdos & Morgan, and it was acquired in 1988 by Jerome Kossoff, owner and president of Beta Research Corporation, Syosset, N.Y. Dr. Erdos stayed with the firm and retired several years later.
        Dr. Erdos was born in Budapest and grew up there. He studied at the University of Heidelberg, Germany -- where he met Mr. Morgan -- and at universities in Switzerland, France and Britain. In 1937 he received a doctorate in philosophy from the University of Pecs, Hungary.
        Fleeing Hitler's might, he moved to New York in 1939 after working in publishing in Hungary and Italy. In New York he held jobs as a literary agent, in market research, publishing and data processing and was with Fact Finders Inc., a market research firm, from 1942 to 1947.
        He and Helen Mero were married in 1950, and she died in 1978.
        Dr. Erdos is survived by a stepdaughter, Dr. Kathleen Mero Mogul of Newton, Mass.; and three grandchildren.
      