
        Keith Highet, a lawyer who handled more cases before the International Court of Justice at The Hague than any other American lawyer, died on Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 67.
        The cause of death was complications from esophageal cancer, said his wife, Margel Lindzey Highet.
        ''He must have handled at least 15 cases before the International Court of Justice, and always with great scholarship, insight and legal flair,'' said Stephen M. Schwebel, a former judge and president of the International Court of Justice, who retired this year.
        Mr. Highet began his 40-year career in international law as counsel to Liberia and Ethiopia, which argued before the international court beginning in 1963 that South Africa's policy of apartheid violated its 1920 League of Nations mandate to administer the former German colony of South-West Africa, now known as Namibia.
        After several years, the case was lost, but it persuaded Mr. Highet to devote his professional life to international law.
        Until his death, Mr. Highet was in the thick of international disputes. He had acted as adviser to the government of Peru in resolving its border conflict with Ecuador, a dispute that had several times erupted into armed conflict.
        After the fall of the government of Ferdinand E. Marcos in the Philippines, he was chairman of the panel of legal experts of President Corazon Aquino's Commission on Good Government.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Highet was serving as counsel to the government of Indonesia and the Republic of Cameroon in cases pending before the international court.
        He was also adviser to the Azerbaijan State Oil Company on the division of the Caspian Sea and its oil resources. Earlier this year, he was a member of the Committee of International Law Experts appointed to advise the prime minister of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina on fighting corruption in that country.
        Although Mr. Highet mainly kept out of the public eye, in 1986 he was a leader of a group of 40 international law experts who publicly deplored the decision of the Reagan administration to withdraw from the general compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice; compulsory jurisdiction means that a country submitting a matter to the court agrees to abide by its decision.
        In a letter to The New York Times, Mr. Highet and Anthony A. D'Amato, a professor of law at Northwestern University, argued that the United States ''should re-establish its long-standing commitment to international law and the peaceful settlement of international disputes by carefully considering the adoption of a new or amended instrument of general adherence to the World Court's compulsory jurisdiction.''
        Born on May 20, 1933, in Oxford, England, Gilbert Keith MacInnes Highet was the son of Gilbert Highet, a well-known professor of Latin language and literature at Columbia University, and Helen MacInnes, the author of spy novels including ''Above Suspicion'' and ''The Venetian Affair.''.
        Mr. Highet earned a bachelor's degree magna cum laude from Harvard in 1954 and then entered the Marine Corps. After his discharge, he was a Fulbright Fellow, studying at Balliol College at Oxford University, and then earned a degree from the Harvard Law School in 1960.
        Mr. Highet later taught international law at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, the University of Paris, the George Washington School of Law and the Ghana School of Law in Accra.
        He wrote chapters in 13 books on international law and more than 30 articles.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Highet is survived by his children, Ian Douglas Highet of New York City, Eliot Highet Patty of South Salem, N.Y. and Mary Marshall Highet of Edgartown, Mass.; and two grandchildren.
      