
        Prince Tomislav Karadjordjevic, the brother of Yugoslavia's last king and, until the birth of his nephew, next in line to the throne, died on Wednesday in his ancestral home 40 miles north of Belgrade. He was 72.
        The cause of death was cancer.
        Though related by blood to the royal houses of Britain, Russia, Spain, Italy, Denmark, Sweden and Greece, the prince, a great-great-grandson of Queen Victoria, lived most of his life as an apple farmer in West Sussex in rural England.
        In exile, as he watched Yugoslavia disintegrate in recent years, he pushed for the rights of Serbs in regions of the shattered country where they are a minority.
        Finally, more than 50 years after being exiled from Yugoslavia, first by the Germans and then by the Communists, he was allowed to return in 1991 by President Slobodan Milosevic. He was greeted by tens of thousands of well-wishers and lived his last decade at the formal royal retreat called Oplenac.
        At his birth at Belgrade's Royal Palace on Jan. 19, 1928, Prince Tomislav was second in line to Yugoslavia's throne, behind his older brother, King Peter II, and 16th in line to the British throne, according to The Times of London. After their father was assassinated in France in 1934, the brothers' cousin, Prince Paul, was named temporary regent.
        In April 1941, Peter was crowned king and Tomislav was named heir presumptive. A week later the Luftwaffe bombed Belgrade, and the royal family fled to Britain, where Peter and Tomislav, as well as their younger brother, Prince Andrew, were already being educated at Oundle and Clare College of Cambridge University.
        Peter died in Los Angeles in 1970. His son, Crown Prince Alexander, has suggested that he might be willing to be king, without aggressively asserting his ancestral claim. Alexander has three sons, all of whom ranked ahead of Prince Tomislav, according to the principle of primogeniture, the descent through the ranks of first sons.
        Tomislav occasionally suggested that he himself should be considered as king, if only as the monarch of Bosnian Serbs, whose cause he championed in their civil war. During the battle between the Serbs and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization over Kosovo, he attended a church service on the Orthodox Easter at one of Belgrade's major churches, even as allied bombs were falling.
        ''It is our Easter,'' he told The Times of London. ''I will not be stopped from going to church on Easter Sunday. I expect to be bombed out of the church by NATO.''
        Alexander, who has been more critical of President Milosevic, has flatly rejected his uncle's occasional aspirations, although he said in a statement that he would remain always in the memory of all Yugoslavs.
        Tomislav was given the name of a great medieval king of the Croats as a gesture to Yugoslavia's Croatian minority. In 1934, his father, during a state visit to France, was assassinated by a Bulgarian being paid by Croatians. According to an obituary in The Daily Telegraph, the prince once said his father stopped his car as he was leaving and asked him what he could bring him from France. ''Come home, Papa,'' was the reply.
        His early youth was lived at a supremely elevated level. The Yugoslav War Ministry enrolled him in the national army as an infant and ordered all soldiers to salute him. As a 2-year-old, he almost fell off a high balcony and was saved by a sentry at the last moment. The officer was promptly rewarded with $500, a release from further military service and a pension for life.
        In Britain, he formed close ties with his cousins, Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret. He served briefly in the Royal Yugoslav Navy at the end of World War II. At Cambridge, he developed his interest in gardening by digging in the garden of the psychology department, The Telegraph said.
        He then worked as a farm laborer near Kent, and bought 40 acres of apple orchards at Kirdford, near Petworth in West Sussex. He was active in local charities there and was county commander of the St. John Ambulance Corps. He strongly supported Yugoslav charities, raising money for the first Serbian church to be built in Britain, St. Prince Lazar's in Birmingham.
        In 1981, Prince Tomislav was divorced from his first wife, Princess Margarita of Baden, a niece of Prince Philip. He married his secretary, Linda Bonney, the same year.
        His wife survives him, as do two children from his first marriage, Prince Nicholas and Princess Katarina. He is also survived by two sons from his second marriage, Princes George and Michael.
      