
        Franklin D. Miller, who won the Medal of Honor in the Vietnam War for single-handedly repulsing an attack on his patrol after he had been shot in the chest, died June 30 in Florida. He was 55 and lived in St. Pete Beach, Fla.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        In addition to receiving the Medal of Honor, the nation's highest award for valor, Mr. Miller was awarded the Silver Star, two Bronze Stars, the Air Medal and six Purple Hearts in four years in combat, prompting Gen. Henry H. Shelton, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to call him  ''an icon to what service in the armed forces is about.''
        But when Mr. Miller was sent to Vietnam in 1966, he hardly seemed destined to have his portrait hanging in the Hall of Heroes at the John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School at Fort Bragg, N.C.
        Mr. Miller, a native of Elizabeth City, N.C., was a private first class in training with the Special Forces, popularly known as the Green Berets, when he received his orders for Vietnam.
        ''One day I was the dining room orderly, and the night before I'd been running around all night, so when I thought no one would miss me, I went up to the barracks and I fell sound asleep,'' he recalled in an interview in 1998 with an Army publication at Fort Bragg.
        ''The first people to wake me up were the company commander and the first sergeant, who were inspecting the billets. The first sergeant said, 'You can take your punishment from me, or you can go see the old man.' I'd never been in trouble before so I said I'd go see the old man. I figured he would just chew me out. He said, 'We've got your reassignment orders to Vietnam.' ''
        Mr. Miller was sent to the First Cavalry Division as an infantryman, remained with the division in Vietnam for two years, then transferred back to the Green Berets. After a promotion to staff sergeant, he was assigned to the Fifth Special Forces Group in Kontum Province, South Vietnam, a staging point for patrols into Laos and Cambodia seeking intelligence on North Vietnamese troop movements.
        On Jan. 5, 1970, while Sergeant Miller was leading a seven-man patrol of American soldiers and Montagnard tribesmen in Laos, a booby trap injured five of his men and alerted a North Vietnamese reconnaissance patrol, which opened fire and continued its attack throughout the day.
        In the ensuing firefight, every man in the patrol was wounded, and then Sergeant Miller was hit in the chest.
        ''I felt like I was being drowned,'' he said and added that he was about to panic when ''I had something of a religious experience.''
        The image of his mentor from his days in the First Cavalry Division -- Sgt. Roy Bumgarner, whom he regarded as a ''Superman'' soldier -- appeared to him.
        As Sergeant Miller remembered, ''Sergeant Bumgarner was right there, and he said, 'Calm down, otherwise you'll scare yourself into shock.' I tried to calm down and think about what I had to do.''
        What Sergeant Miller did was repel two attacks, firing from a solitary exposed position, after an evacuation helicopter had been driven off by enemy fire and he was the only member of the patrol able to keep fighting. Four of the seven patrol members were killed, but at nightfall, when Sergeant Miller was running out of ammunition, a relief patrol evacuated him and the other two survivors.
        Sergeant Miller received the Medal of Honor from President Richard M. Nixon at the White House on June 15, 1971. He retired from the Army in 1992 as a command sergeant major, then became a benefits counselor for the Veterans Administration.
        He is survived by a son, Joshua; a daughter, Danielle; and a brother, Walter, of Palmer, Alaska, who is also a retired command sergeant major of the Special Forces.
        Mr. Miller occasionally visited Fort Bragg and spoke to Special Forces trainees. His credo: ''Share your fears with yourself and your courage with others. You will inspire people to do things that are incredible.''
      