
        Leo A. Hoegh, a governor of Iowa and later civil defense chief for President Dwight D. Eisenhower, died on July 15 in Colorado Springs, where he retired 15 years ago. He was 92.
        Mr. Hoegh (pronounced hoyg) was elected governor as an Eisenhower Republican in 1954. Defeated in his run for re-election two years later, he was called to Washington by the president in 1957 to become civil defense administrator. His agency was merged into a new Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization a year later, and Mr. Hoegh became its first administrator, filling a cabinet-level post he held until the end of Eisenhower's second term, in 1961.
        Arriving in Washington at the age of 49, Mr. Hoegh, who had been an Army officer during World War II, stood out with his military demeanor and hallmark crew cut, sprinkled with gray. The cold war was at its chilliest, and among his tasks was to  coordinate civil defense drills and the designation of bomb shelters -- typically those places in office and apartment buildings that were considered safest -- that people were to use in case of nuclear attack by the Soviet Union.
        ''I am not anticipating or expecting a war,'' he said at the time, ''but the enemy could make a mistake or a miscalculation, and the American people must be prepared.'' Such a war, he said, would be won by the nation best able to withstand an initial nuclear blow.
        Leo Arthur Hoegh was born on a farm near Elk Horn in southwestern Iowa. He graduated from the University of Iowa in 1929 and its law school in 1932 and went into practice as a small-town lawyer in Chariton, south of Des Moines.
        He was elected to the Iowa House in 1936 and was re-elected twice before being called up for duty as a junior officer in the National Guard. In World War II, he earned a battlefield promotion to lieutenant colonel as his Army division, the 104th, fought its way across Europe. He also won three battlefield citations and the French Legion of Honor. It was during those months that he first came to the attention of General Eisenhower, the supreme allied commander.
        Mr. Hoegh's wife, Mary Louise Foster Hoegh, to whom he was married for 64 years, died five weeks ago. He is survived by two daughters, Kristin Hoegh Marsh of Aspen, Colo., and Janis Hoegh of Boulder, Colo.; and one granddaughter.
      