
        Sussman Volk, who owned a Manhattan restaurant that became a garment district social center for decades, opened and quickly closed what was said to be New York City's first frozen-food store, and invented questionable necessities that included the Cigarette Lighter That Lights From Either End, died July 14 in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80.
        The cause was acute leukemia, his family said.
        Mr. Volk, who was known as Cecil, as were three cousins with the same first name, was a true New York character. He meticulously cataloged tens of thousands of jokes, some funny, all of which he yearned to crack at what he considered the perfect moment. He tore around on a motorcycle, wearing lots of black leather, until shortly before his death.
        There might have been the occasional misstep. The pioneering Greenwich Village frozen-food store, Penguin Food, was founded on the fatally incorrect premise that people would go to a separate store to buy the new wonder of frozen goods. When Mr. Volk thought he had invented the four-color retractable pen-and-pencil set, his partner and financial backer filed for the patent, somehow forgetting to include Mr. Volk's name.
        Was it his fault that nobody grasped the utter necessity of the Double-Sided Garbage Can Washing Machine? It could wash two cans at once!
        Mr. Volk's supreme achievement was Morgen's Restaurant at 141 West 38th Street, which he ran from 1947 until 1985, when he sold it. It was a beehive of designers, fashion tycoons, models and hangers-on who waited with showy impatience behind a red velvet rope until a table was open. His wife, Audrey, attired in the latest Bill Blass -- never, but never, bought for list price -- acted as an elegant ringmaster.
        The menu was immense and printed anew each day. Its audacity was apparent in its characterization of chicken soup: ''essence of young fowl with matzo balls.'' Offerings ranged from duckling Montmorency, a half a duck served with cherry sauce and sweet potato pudding, to Gedampfte rinderbrust, a staggering slab of boiled meat.
        Mr. Volk came from a glorious background, at least from the viewpoint of those in love with New York legends, however embellished. His grandfather, Sussman Volk, claimed to have introduced pastrami to the New World at his Delancey Street delicatessen. His father, Jacob, claimed to have won his home in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, in a card game with Mayor James J. (Jimmy) Walker. Jacob Volk also claimed to have invented the wrecking ball, prompting James Thurber to call him ''a house wrecker of herculean mythology'' in The New Yorker.
        Sussman Volk was born in the Bensonhurst house on Sept. 5, 1919. His father died when he was 9, and when he was 12, his vivid life blossomed magically when he was sent out West for a year to a ranch to learn cowboy skills, which he would never again use.
        Mr. Volk met his wife, Audrey Morgen, after she read a letter he had written to his sister, who also lived in her Manhattan apartment building. At the time, he was studying business at the University of West Virginia, where he was 1939 shag dancing champion, but eventually graduated.
        Audrey Morgen had never read such a poetic, completely no-nonsense letter from a young man. ''I knew enough to know that this was somebody who could make life very, very important,'' she said. ''He never had a chance of escaping.''
        She traded an introduction to one of her cousins for an introduction to Sussman Volk. She and their daughters, Patricia Volk Blitzer of Manhattan and JoAnn Lederman of Miami; five grandchildren and three great-grandsons survive him.
        Mr. Volk went to work in her father's restaurant business. At the time, he had three restaurants, all named Morgen's. They all survived the Depression, but her father sold them after his son, Robert, left to serve in World War II.
        Left to his own devices, Mr. Volk began inventing things, including the Illuminated Fender Guide. It looked like a knitting needle and lighted up at the push of a button, allowing a motorist to gauge distances when parking a car in the dark. He actually made some money on this one, his daughter, Patricia, said.
        The war years also saw the frozen-food store brainstorm come and go, as Mr. Volk also started a bakery, among other things. He got a job doing advertising for the General Refrigeration Company as a result of his iced-foods enterprise.
        After the war, Mr. Volk and Robert Morgen returned to the restaurant business. Mr. Morgen eventually operated Morgen's East on the East Side of Manhattan, while Mr. Volk ran Morgen's West in the garment district. After Morgen's East closed, Morgen's West became simply Morgen's.
        Mr. Volk never stopped inventing things, including a device to keep adjacent washers and dryers from rattling, which was used only in his own home. He made metal sculptures in a studio he shared with the actor Zero Mostel, who also painted.
        Mr. Volk made a career of the very New York enterprise known as schmoozing.
        ''Everybody seemed to think he was their best friend,'' Mrs. Volk said. ''Anybody he touched was very happy. It's a known fact.''
      