
        Haskell Cohen, a longtime publicity director for the National Basketball Association, who helped create the league's All-Star Game -- a once-modest affair that has become an annual weekend spectacle -- died last Wednesday at his home in Fort Lee, N.J. He was 86.
        In the winter of 1951, when Mr. Cohen joined the N.B.A. office, college basketball was reeling from point-shaving scandals, giving the professionals an opportunity to attract new fans. Mr. Cohen and N.B.A. Commissioner Maurice Podoloff, the league's two-man office, met with Walter Brown, the Boston Celtics' owner, to think up a way to gain attention.
        Mr. Cohen would recall suggesting: ''Why not an All-Star Game? Baseball does it and people like it.'' Brown put the game in Boston Garden, and on March 2, 1951, the first N.B.A. All-Star Game drew 10,094 fans who saw the East defeat the West, 111-94.
        Three years later, Mr. Cohen played a supporting role in another pioneering moment. With teams often content to dribble out the clock, keeping scores low and games frequently tedious, Danny Biasone, the owner of the Syracuse Nationals, proposed a 24-second time limit for teams to attempt a shot.
        But when the idea was tried in an exhibition game at a Syracuse gym in August 1954, a 24-second clock had not yet been devised. Mr. Cohen kept his eye on the second hand of his wristwatch along the sideline. Whenever 24 seconds had gone by without a shot, he would shout, ''Time!''
        Mr. Cohen helped create the annual Stokes benefit game at Kutsher's Country Club in Monticello, N.Y., in the Catskills. After Maurice Stokes, the Cincinnati Royals' star, contracted encephalitis in 1958, Mr. Cohen joined with Jack Twyman, a teammate of Stokes's, and Milton Kutsher, the owner of the hotel, to stage a game each summer featuring N.B.A. stars to raise money for Stokes's medical bills and for other former players in financial need.
        Mr. Cohen, who was born in Worcester, Mass., and graduated from Boston University, served as the N.B.A.'s publicist from 1951 to 1969. He was a founder, in 1948, and later president of the United States Committee Sports for Israel, the sponsor of American participation in the World Maccabiah Games in Israel, an Olympic-style competition for Jewish athletes. As a contributing editor to Parade magazine, he created its high school all-American teams in football, basketball and soccer. He was also sports editor of the Jewish Telegraphic Agency.
        He is survived by two daughters, Irene Komet, of Fair Lawn, N.J., and Evelyn Cohen, of Manhattan; three grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
        Long after leaving the N.B.A., Mr. Cohen reminisced about that first All-Star Game, telling of how he had suggested to Mr. Podoloff that the league give the players gifts for participating.
        As Mr. Cohen remembered it:
        ''Podoloff said, 'What do you have in mind?'
        ''I said, 'Maybe a pin or a ring.'
        ''He said, 'Whatever it is, don't spend more than $2.25 each.' ''
        That was no way for a publicist to treat the Dream Teams of their day.
        ''We later were able to cut a deal with a local store,'' Mr. Cohen recalled, ''and each of the players received a television set.''
      