
        Henry Mayer, a historian and critic best known for his award-winning revisionist book ''All on Fire: William Lloyd Garrison and the Abolition of American Slavery,'' died on Monday while on a bicycling trip with his wife in Glacier National Park in northwestern Montana. He was 59 and lived in Berkeley, Calif.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Jim Reston, a friend.
        ''All on Fire'' was applauded as ''Mayer's triumph'' by Publisher's Weekly more than a month before it was published by St. Martin's Press in 1998. ''Dead for almost 120 years, Garrison (1805-1879) tends to be caricatured in U.S. history books, if he's mentioned at all,'' the magazine said. ''That caricature shows a single-issue fanatic who had right on his side but possibly did more harm than good by agitating abolitionists and slavery advocates alike.''
        ''Mayer's triumph is to show Garrison as a complicated human being, a fanatic to be sure, but one with a devoted family, a sense of humor and a brilliance of mind unexpected of one with so little formal education,'' Publisher's Weekly added, and Mr. Mayer ''has done impressive research, especially in his use of Garrison's Boston-based newspaper, the Liberator, to explain its editor. The writing is first rate.''
        The Boston Globe said the book was ''superb biography'' and that Garrison was ''an inspiring, extraordinary figure, as Mayer brilliantly shows in this richly researched, passionately written book.''
        ''All on Fire'' was a New York Times Notable Book of 1998, and The Times Book Review called it ''A copious, dramatic biography, charged with place and situation, of the fiery abolitionist newspaper editor.''
        The book was also a 1998 National Book Award finalist, and it won the Ann M. Sperber Biography Award, the Boston Book Review REA Prize for nonfiction, the J. Anthony Lukas Book Prize and the California Commonwealth Club Silver Medal for nonfiction.
        Mr. Mayer's book ''A Son of Thunder: Patrick Henry and the American Republic'' (1986, University Press of Virginia) was praised by Sean Wilentz, a teacher of history at Princeton, in The Times Book Review. He wrote that the book rescued ''Patrick Henry from the sideshow of history and reminds us how controversial he was.''
        Mr. Wilentz said Mr. Mayer was ''a knowledgeable and insightful guide'' through Henry's complex career, and the book did ''a fine job of placing Henry's ideas of republican rectitude in context without ignoring the many ironies of his life as a mediator between the yeomanry and the elite.''
        Mr. Mayer's many other writings include the books ''The Culture of the University: Education and Governance'' (1968), which he wrote with Caleb Foote and others, and ''As It Happened: A History of the United States'' (1975), which he wrote with Charles Sellers and others. At his death, he was working on a biography of the photographer Dorothea Lange.
        Mr. Mayer also wrote many book reviews for a variety of publications, including The Times.
        He was a member of the National Book Critics Circle and the Bay Area Book Reviewers Association.
        A native New Yorker, he moved with his family to North Carolina while he was young and received a bachelor's degree with highest honors in 1963 from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a master's degree in United States History in 1965 from the University of California at Berkeley.
        After teaching history at Franklin and Marshall College, he taught American history and literature at the Urban School of San Francisco for some years, beginning in 1975, and was its acting director in 1977 and 1978. He began writing full-time around 1980.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. Elizabeth T. Anderson, a physician, he is survived by a daughter, Eleanor; a son, Thomas; his mother, Ethel, who lives near San Francisco; and a brother, William, who lives in California.
      