
        Olcott Damon Smith, who as chairman of Aetna Life and Casualty led the formation of its international and financial services divisions, died on Monday in Avon, Conn. He was 93.
        The two businesses that Mr. Smith believed would bode so well for Aetna's future are to be sold to ING Group N.V. under the terms of a $5 billion deal reached earlier this month. The company announced plans in March to break itself into two parts, one for its medical coverage and the other for financial services, which include real estate development, commercial finance and mutual funds.
        A 1929 graduate of Yale University, Mr. Smith joined the Hartford law firm of Day, Berry & Howard after graduating from Harvard Law School in 1932 and was made a partner in 1936. He represented banks and utility companies in financing, rate changes and mergers during his 30 years with the firm. Day, Berry & Howard also performed much of Aetna's outside legal work.
        Mr. Smith, who enjoyed a tough game of tennis, was an Aetna director for nine years before the board selected him in 1963 to succeed its retiring chairman, Henry Beers. At Aetna, Mr. Smith was credited with contributions that ranged from recruiting more directors from outside the Hartford area to instituting a system that emphasized cost effectiveness and accountability.
        In a 1968 interview, Mr. Smith said the puzzle facing companies like Aetna could be summed up as, ''How can you engage in a business that is a social necessity and still make a reasonable profit?'' He was in favor of no-fault insurance, then a rarity, and Aetna was one of the first insurers to offer individual variable annuities. He criticized the conservative investment strategy that characterized most insurers, saying it ''has had too strong an influence on other areas of the business.''
        While looking outward to improve Aetna, Mr. Smith was also concerned with strengthening Hartford, one of the Northeast's poorer cities. He led the effort to establish the Hartford Civic Center, which opened in 1975. He headed the Town Meeting for Tomorrow, a 1964 conference on Hartford's future, and was a chairman of the Greater Hartford Process, a program to improve quality of life for blacks and minorities. In 1939, he represented his hometown, West Hartford, in the Connecticut legislature.
        Mr. Smith was a recipient of the American Jewish Committee's Leadership Award in 1968. He also won the National Human Relations Award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews in 1971, and was a Benjamin Franklin Fellow at the Royal Society of Arts in London.
        In addition, he was a trustee of many Hartford area institutions, including the Wadsworth Atheneum, the Farmington Public Library and the Connecticut Children's Aid Society. Through Aetna, he brought World Cup Tennis to Hartford.
        His first wife, Lucy Bulkeley Brainerd, died in 1983. He is survived by his wife, Catharine Carton Swett, whom he married later that year; four children, Damon B. Smith and Wendy M. Brainerd, of New York; Tyler Smith, of Hartford; and O. Whitman Smith, of North Ferrisbury, Va.; 14 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
      