
        William Maxwell, a small-town boy from Illinois who edited some of the century's literary lions in 40 years at The New Yorker while also writing novels and short stories that secured his own place in American letters, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91.
        John Updike, whose early stories for The New Yorker were edited by Mr. Maxwell, said in an interview several years ago: ''They don't make too many Bill Maxwells. A good editor is one who encourages a writer to write his best, and that was Bill.''
        ''A lot of nice touches in my stories belong to Bill Maxwell,'' Mr. Updike  said. ''And I've taken credit for them all.''
        In addition to Mr. Updike, Mr. Maxwell, in his career as a fiction editor at The New Yorker, worked with writers like John Cheever, John O'Hara, J. D. Salinger, Shirley Hazzard, Vladimir Nabokov, Mary McCarthy, Eudora Welty, Harold Brodkey, Mavis Gallant, Isaac Bashevis Singer and Frank O'Connor.
        Polishing their manuscripts exerted an influence on his own writing, which included six novels, three collections of short stories, a memoir (''Ancestors,'' 1971), a volume of essays and fantasies for children. ''I came, as a result of being an editor, to look for whatever was unnecessary in my own writing,'' he said in a 1995 interview. ''After 40 years, what I came to care about most was not style, but the breath of life.''
        William Keepers Maxwell Jr. was born in Lincoln, Ill., on Aug. 16, 1908, one of three sons of William Keepers Maxwell, an insurance executive, and the former Eva Blossom Blinn. When he was 10, his mother died in the influenza epidemic of 1918-19, a shattering experience that he would revisit in ''They Came Like Swallows'' (1937), his second novel and the one that established him as a writer. His 14 years in Lincoln (sometimes called Draperville or Logan in his books), would provide, as Mr. Maxwell later put it, ''three-quarters of the material I would need for the rest of my writing life.''
        Lincoln was a postcard Midwestern town with tree-shaded streets and a courthouse square where an annual carnival was held and people paraded on patriotic holidays. In 1992 Mr. Maxwell wrote a reminiscence (in ''Billy Dyer and Other Stories'') of the ''many marvels'' of Lincoln:
        ''No house, inside or out, was like any other house, and neither were the people who lived in them. Incandescent carbon lamps, suspended high over the intersections, lighted the way home. The streets were paved with brick, and elm trees met over them to provide a canopy of shade. There were hanging baskets of ferns and geraniums, sometimes with American flags, suspended from porch ceilings. The big beautiful white horses in the firehouse had to be exercised, and so on my way to school now and then I got to see the fire engine when nobody's house was on fire.''
        After Mr. Maxwell's mother died, he went to live with an aunt and uncle in Bloomington, Ill., which, compared with Lincoln, was a metropolis and ''where something was always going on, even if it was only the cat having kittens.''
        From his earliest years, he loved reading. As David Streitfeld put it in an article in The Washington Post, ''Maxwell requires printed matter the way other people need oxygen.'' Mr. Maxwell said ''Treasure Island'' was the first work of literature he ever read. ''At the last page, I turned back to the beginning,'' he said. ''I didn't stop until I had read it five times. I've been that way ever since.''
        Mr. Maxwell's father eventually remarried and moved to Chicago, taking his family with him. Mr. Maxwell earned a bachelor's degree at the University of Illinois and a master's at Harvard and taught in Illinois for two years. As a youth he  wanted to be a poet, but realized early that he did not have that gift and so started writing stories. He had published one novel, ''Bright Center of Heaven'' (1934), and had a second in his typewriter when he moved to New York with the $200 advance and applied for a job at The New Yorker.
        There was a vacancy in the art department, and Mr. Maxwell was hired at $35 a week to fill it. ''I sat in on meetings and then told artists what changes were wanted,'' he said. He eventually moved to the fiction department, where he worked with  Katharine White, with whom he formed a lifelong friendship, though one that was always circumscribed by their professional status. Long after both retired, they still wrote letters that began, ''Dear Mrs. White,'' and ''Dear Mr. Maxwell.''
        One day during World War II he interviewed a young woman who had applied for a job as poetry editor at The New Yorker. The magazine did not have a separate poetry editor in those days, and Mr. Maxwell had been doubling in that capacity. ''She was very attractive,'' he would succinctly explain later, ''and I pursued the matter.''
        The woman did not get the job, but on May 17, 1945, Emily Gilman Noyes and Mr. Maxwell were married. The couple had two daughters, Kate Maxwell and Brookie Maxwell, both of whom live in Manhattan. Mrs. Maxwell died on July 23 in Manhattan. Besides his daughters, Mr. Maxwell is survived by a grandson and a brother, Robert Blinn Maxwell, of Oxnard, Calif.
        Mr. Maxwell's last book was ''All the Days and Nights,'' a collection of stories or fables. In a radio interview he said he began the book '' because my wife liked to have me tell her stories when we were in bed in the dark before falling asleep.''
        As an editor, Mr. Maxwell was known for his tact in dealing with authors with reputations for being headstrong. He didn't always succeed. Brendan Gill wrote in his memoir, ''Here at The New Yorker,'' that Mr. Maxwell once took the train to Ossining, N.Y., to tell John Cheever that the magazine was rejecting one of his stories. Cheever became furious, not so much at the rejection, but that his courtly editor felt it necessary to come tell him in person.
        On another occasion, Mr. Maxwell again boarded a train, this time to go read three new stories by John O'Hara in the presence of the author. It was a command performance and he was nervous. The first two stories he read were not acceptable to The New Yorker, and Mr. Maxwell started reading the third with trepidation. Fortunately, the third turned out to be ''Imagine Kissing Pete,'' one of O'Hara's best.
        Some of Cheever's later stories caused consternation at The New Yorker because of their erotic content. When William Shawn, then the editor, objected to a reference to lust, ''I was beside myself,'' Mr. Maxwell said. ''It seems very old-fashioned now, but then it was unacceptable, and there was nothing I could do about it.''
        When John Updike had his own  editorial battles at The New Yorker, he said he always found an ally in Mr. Maxwell. ''There was always a lot of fiddling, and a lot of the fiddles came from Shawn. And Bill would assist me in ignoring them.''
        Sometimes it was the editor who benefited from the advice of the writer. Mr. Maxwell had been working for eight years on a novel that was eventually titled ''The Chateau'' (1961), which he had set in France rather than in the familiar territory of the American Midwest. But it was not coming together. He showed the manuscript to Frank O'Connor, who read it and advised him that there were, in fact, two novels there. ''My relief was immense,'' Mr. Maxwell said, ''because it is a lot easier to make two novels into one than it is to make one out of nothing whatever. So I went ahead and finished the book.''
        The letters of Frank O'Connor and Mr. Maxwell from 1945 to 1966, the year of O'Connor's death, were published in 1966 under the title ''The Happiness of Getting It Down Right.'' O'Connor, a prolific contributor to The New Yorker, revised endlessly, and after his death left 17 versions of one story that the magazine had eventually rejected.
        Mr. Maxwell's lack of celebrity never disturbed him. ''Why should I let best-seller lists spoil a happy life?'' he said.
        Among his novels are ''Time Will Darken It'' (1948) and ''So Long, See You Tomorrow'' (1980). His story collections included ''The Old Man at the Railroad Crossing and Other Tales'' (1966), ''Over by the River, and Other Stories'' (1977) and ''Billy Dyer and Other Stories'' (1992). A collection of essays was published as ''The Outermost Dream'' in 1989.
        In 1995 Alfred A. Knopf published a collection of his stories under the title ''All the Days and Nights,'' and Mr. Maxwell gained some long overdue public recognition. Jonathan Yardley, writing in The Washington Post, said the volume showed that ''Maxwell has maintained not merely a high level of consistency but has, if anything, become over the years a deeper and more complex writer.''
        His honors included the American Book Award, the Brandeis Creative Arts Medal and the William Dean Howells Medal of the American Academy of Arts and Letters. (He was elected to the academy in 1963.)
        In March 1997 Mr. Maxwell wrote an article for The New York Times Magazine in which he talked about his life as a writer and the experiences of age:
        ''Out of the corner of my eye I see my 90th birthday approaching. I don't yet need a cane, but I have a feeling that my table manners have deteriorated. My posture is what you'd expect of someone addicted to sitting in front of a typewriter.
        ''Because I actively enjoy sleeping, dreams, the unexplainable dialogues that take place in my head as I am drifting off, all that, I tell myself that lying down to an afternoon nap that goes on and on through eternity is not something to be concerned about,'' he continued. ''What spoils this pleasant fancy is the recollection that when people are dead, they don't read books. This I find unbearable. No Tolstoy, no Chekhov, no Elizabeth Bowen, no Keats, no Rilke.
        ''Before I am ready to call it quits I would like to reread every book I have ever deeply enjoyed, beginning with Jane Austen and going through shelf after shelf of the bookcases, until I arrive at the 'Autobiographies' of William Butler Yeats.''
      