
        Thomas R. Ottenstein, the developer whose observation tower overlooking Gettysburg's historic fields drew tourists and wrath until it was felled by government fiat last month, died Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 70 and also had a home in Delray Beach, Fla.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his family said.
        The 307-foot galvanized steel tower with four observation decks opened in 1974 on private land on the fringe of the 6,000-acre Gettysburg National Military Park. It spawned what often seemed like unending legal battles and controversy ever since Mr. Ottenstein first conceived it 30 years ago.
        It was a lucrative attraction, as tourists rode its elevator for a panoramic overview of the grounds where 53,000 Americans killed each other within three days in July 1863. Visitors enjoyed visual displays and a recorded dramatization with bugle calls, gunfire and cavalry charges in an air-conditioned ''classroom in the sky,'' as Mr. Ottenstein called it.
        To others, especially historians, battlefield preservationists and some neighbors, it was a sacrilegious eyesore defiling a site consecrated by history, an insult to the tragedy of Pickett's Charge. More mundanely, some derided it as an Eiffel Tower with a pumpkin head.
        Parties to the fray included the State of Pennsylvania, which opposed it; Adams County, which at the time had no zoning code and wanted compensation for the real estate taxes that the park did not pay; and federal officials.
        Mr. Ottenstein could note that the National Park Service had already allowed the park to be girdled by a honky-tonk strip of motels, drive-ins, fried-food restaurants and assorted tourist traps. Adding to his problems was a court fight over property rights.
        Pickett's Charge, which probably changed the course of the Civil War, left 10,000 Confederate soldiers dead or wounded in a futile assault on a line of 6,000 Union troops. But the tower also was very close to where Abraham Lincoln in November 1863 dedicated a national cemetery on the site with one of history's most famous addresses: ''Four score and seven years ago. . . .''
        Among the earliest foes of the tower project were the surviving veterans of the Army tank corps from Camp Colt, in the shadow of the tower. There, a young captain named Dwight D. Eisenhower commanded 10,000 World War I tank corpsmen in 1918.
        A change in the law placed the tower inside the park in 1990. The Park Service said its demolition with an explosive charge last month was part of an effort to rid the battlefield of commercialism and restore what Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt called ''sacred ground.''
        Litigation remains pending over how much compensation the government owes for that eminent-domain action.
        Thomas Ray Ottenstein was born in Washington and graduated from Syracuse University and Georgetown University's law school. He served in the Army from 1954 to 1956 and went into the family's newspaper distribution business before becoming a well-to-do real estate developer.
        He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Nina Judis Ottenstein; two daughters, Marla Ottenstein and Doria Reese, and two sons, Grant and Todd, all of Washington; a brother, Victor, of Solana Beach, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      