
        David Mellinkoff, a lawyer, professor and writer who waged fierce and clever battle against lawyerly language, ''contagious verbosity'' in his phrase, died in Los Angeles on Dec. 31. He was 85.
        Mr. Mellinkoff waged his war in books, articles and lectures, attacking what he called ''the junk antiques'' of the legal vocabulary, those  streams of ''forthwiths,'' ''heretofores'' and ''whereases'' that tumble endlessly through lawyers' writings. Sometimes called the dean of legal writing specialists, he began his campaign for clarity and brevity with his 1963 book, still his most influential, ''Language of the Law'' (Aspen Publishers).
        Bryan Garner, a Dallas lawyer who heads a company that teaches lawyers to write more clearly and who edited the most recent edition of Black's Law Dictionary, said ''Language of the Law'' proved that ''the argument that legalese is more precise is poppycock.'' Although the attack on gobbledygook dates at least to the English utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham, Mr. Garner said Mr. Mellinkoff's influence was profound because he made the case for plainer language in a style lawyers appreciate: with lots of footnotes and case citations.
        In a review of Mr. Mellinkoff's Dictionary of American Legal Usage (West Publishing Company, 1992), Arthur Gilbert, a California judge, wrote: ''He cross-references words and expressions, enabling you to see how they relate to each other and how they are different from one another. He compares and contrasts ordinary and legal usage so that you can use a legal term with precision.''
        Mr. Mellinkoff's work provided ammunition for a mounting movement in the 1970's and 1980's to simplify insurance policies and other consumer documents, to streamline state and federal legislation and to add writing instruction to law school curriculums.
        ''Serious reform did not begin until 1963 when David Mellinkoff published his scholarly and influential book,'' John M. Lindsey, a Temple University law professor, wrote in 1990.
        But progress can be devilishly fitful. When New York State passed a law in 1981 requiring that consumer agreements be written in ''a clear and coherent manner using words with common and everyday meanings,'' Mr. Mellinkoff smelled legalese. ''Common and everyday are redundant,'' he said.
        His views on words were piercing. ''Actual,'' he wrote, is ''a good luck charm to ward off disbelief.'' Absolutes rarely are. ''Hereby'' is superfluous, and ''saith'' a worthless anachronism. ''Chilling effect''? ''Unless applied to a dry, white wine, chill is pejorative, with some chills worse than others,'' he wrote.
        Mr. Mellinkoff, whose father was a businessman, was born in McKeesport, Pa. The family soon moved to Beverly Hills, where his father owned a chain of shoe stores and he completed high school. He graduated from Stanford and Harvard Law School. He developed a lucrative Beverly Hills law practice; one of his clients was Mae West. During World War II, he served as an Army captain in the field artillery in Dutch New Guinea.
        The University of California at Los Angeles invited him to teach part time after his 1963 book. The next semester, he accepted the university's invitation to stay on as a full professor. He had begun writing about legal verbiage years earlier, including a 1953 article in the Stanford Law Review titled ''How to Make Contracts Illegible.''
        His wife of 50 years, Ruth, said his life and work were infused with pointed humor. She cited his losing battle to keep U.C.L.A.'s law school from following other law schools in changing the name of its degree to doctor in law. In a long and stinging letter, dated March 1, 1967, he wrote, ''When the theater manager asks 'Is there a doctor in the house?' must he specify that the dying man doesn't want a lawyer?' ''
        Other survivors are a son, David, of Pacific Palisades, Cal.; a brother, Dr. Sherman M. Mellinkoff of Los Angeles; a sister, Ruth Watt, of Palo Alto; and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Mellinkoff's ultimate prescription for legalese was as simple as it was unlikely. He once wrote, ''The most effective way of shortening law language is for judges and lawyers to stop writing.''
      