
        Bruce J. Ennis, a First Amendment lawyer and former legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union, died on Saturday at a hospital in Boston, where he had been taken from his summer home on Martha's Vineyard. He was 60 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was complications from leukemia, Paul Smith of the Washington law firm Jenner & Block said. Mr. Ennis was a senior partner there.
        Over the years, Mr. Ennis appeared as counsel in some 250 cases before the United States Supreme Court, representing litigants as well as friends of the court. The National Law Journal has listed him among the country's 100 most influential lawyers since 1994.
        He became known nationally for his work to protect the mentally ill and retarded. More recently he dealt chiefly with First Amendment matters involving the print media, cable television, the Internet, communications laws and related Constitutional law issues.
        He came to prominence with the first case he argued in the Supreme Court. Known as the Donaldson case, it ended in the court's unanimously ruling in 1975 that nonviolent mental patients had important rights, including the right not to be deprived of liberty and the right to sue state hospital officials for damages if that right is violated.
        One case in the 1990's, A.C.L.U. et al. v. Reno, helped clarify the constitutionality of government regulation of free speech on the Internet. While he was on the staff of the A.C.L.U. he successfully defended The Progressive magazine when the federal government tried to suppress an article about the hydrogen bomb.
        A native of Knoxville, Tenn., Bruce James Ennis graduated cum laude from Dartmouth College in 1962. He received a doctor of laws degree in 1965 at the University of Chicago, where he was elected to the Order of the Coif and served on The Chicago Law Review.
        He joined the A.C.L.U. as a staff lawyer in 1968. He was its lead counsel in the notorious long-running Willowbrook case in the 1970's, exposing one of the world's largest and most squalid institutions for the mentally retarded, on Staten Island. The exposure resulted in sweeping reforms statewide.
        From 1977 to 1982 he served as the organization's legal director, heading a national staff of 26 lawyers and coordinating strategies with thousands of cooperating lawyers across the country.
        He then was a founding member of the Washington law firm Ennis, Friedman, Bersoff & Ewing. The firm was merged into Jenner & Block in 1988.
        Mr. Ennis is survived by his wife, Emily Newhall Ennis; two teenage sons, Alexander and Bradley; his mother, Jane Burgin of Kansas City, Mo.; and a sister, Elizabeth Ennis-Thomas of Corte Madera, Calif.
      