
        Gibson McCabe, a former publisher and president of Newsweek who defended the editorial independence of the magazine from irate advertisers during the Vietnam War, died Saturday at Baptist Medical Center in Jacksonville Beach, Fla., from complications after a fall. He was 89.
        ''There was flak from many advertisers about the coverage of Vietnam,'' recalled Jay Melvin, a former Newsweek executive who is a consultant with the Magazine Publishers of America, a trade group. At a time when many readers did not want to hear about failings of United States strategy, ''Gib always defended editors,'' he said.
        Katharine Graham, the former chairwoman of the Washington Post Company, which bought Newsweek in 1961, recalled a time when some advertisers threatened to pull their ads to protest a cover story, ''Thunder on the Right,'' about right-wing Americans. ''Whether it's true or not, let's act like they need us more than we need them,'' Mr. McCabe told his staff, as recounted by Mrs. Graham in her autobiography, ''Personal History.''
        Mr. McCabe, whose father, Robert C. McCabe, had been an editor with The New York Herald Tribune and other newspapers, ''had a high regard for the independence of the editorial product,'' said Osborn Elliott, who was editor of Newsweek from 1961 to 1976 when the magazine was reporting on racial issues, changes in sexual mores and other emotionally charged topics.
        Mrs. Graham wrote, ''As long as Oz Elliott was editor and Gib McCabe was publisher or president, the magazine went from strength to strength, both in editorial quality and in advertising.'' Circulation increased during his tenure to almost 3 million from 1.3 million and advertising revenue rose to $60.6 million from $25 million.
        Mr. McCabe joined Newsweek in 1942 as circulation director. After a stint as a lieutenant junior grade in the Navy in World War II, he rejoined the magazine in 1945 and went to Paris where he supervised a pocket-size edition for the armed forces. As the war in Europe ended, he scored a scoop by arranging with French printers, well supplied with Champagne, he said later, secretly to prepare an edition with the surrender terms that went on sale in Paris minutes after the news was released by the Allied commanders.
        Mr. McCabe was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Princeton University in 1931. Survivors include two daughters, Margaret Cruger of Fort Collins, Colo.; and Judith Goodchild of Old Greenwich, Conn.; six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. His first marriage to Elizabeth Fife ended in divorce. He married Lydia Knight Bassett in 1964; she died in 1994.
        He was publisher of Newsweek from 1958 to 1963 and president from 1959 until he retired in 1975. He was chairman of the Magazine Publishers of America for several terms. The group gave him its top honor, the Henry Johnson Fisher Award, in 1971.
      