
        Michael Meyer, whose translations of the plays of Ibsen and Strindberg are performed throughout the English-speaking world and who wrote monumental biographies of both Scandinavian playwrights, died on Thursday. He was 79 and lived in London.
        Mr. Meyer was himself a playwright and teacher but found his primary artistic calling as a conduit to Ibsen and Strindberg. Although in a sense he was shadowed by them, he opened doors to their art for generations of theatergoers.
        He did not seem to feel that his work as a translator and a biographer was a lesser occupation, but it was, in his mind, a kind of self-annihilation. He said, ''The most difficult thing, if the translator is a writer himself, is to keep himself out of it, to resist leaving his thumbprint.'' He applied a similar principle to the writing of biography. His objective was to be complete but ''never upstage the subject.''
        In his pantheon, first came Ibsen, a giant of the theater who justly deserved Mr. Meyer's ''Ibsen: A Biography,'' an 865-page tome of great gravitas. Mr. Meyer belonged to the all-inclusive school of biographers, writing books that would stand by themselves and would also be sources for future biographers. In ''Ibsen'' he offered endless facts about the playwright's life in and outside the theater and laundry lists of his income.
        But behind those details was a portrait of a genius, a book that since its publication in 1971 has remained an essential study of a founding father of modern theater.
        In his book Mr. Meyer credits Ibsen with breaking down social barriers that had previously bound theater and with eradicating artificialities of plot.
        He concludes, ''Ibsen's enduring greatness as a dramatist is due not to his technical innovations, but to the depth and subtlety of his understanding of human character (especially feminine character), and, which is rarer, of human relationships.''
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Rolf Fjelde, himself a prolific translator of Ibsen plays, said this was the ''most complete Ibsen biography to date.'' While criticizing prolixity as the chief defect of the book, he said that the author ''abundantly reminds us of the contradictory, variously colorful, prosaic and at times moving outer record of Ibsen the man.''
        After ''Ibsen,'' it seemed natural that Mr. Meyer would move on to ''Strindberg,'' but for some time he avoided that biography while concentrating on his translations. Eventually he acceded to the wishes of publishers and devoted himself to the Swedish playwright, just as he had to his Norwegian counterpart and rival.
        His reasons for hesitating over Strindberg were clear. Mr. Meyer was Jewish, and he was offended by the playwright's prejudices. He said that the characteristics he most disliked in people ''would be headed by racism, hysteria, self-pity, malice and vengefulness, and Strindberg possessed all these in full measure.''
        Although he would have preferred to write about a sympathetic subject, he ''decided that however miserable Strindberg made others, I would keep my antipathy to myself.''
        In his biography, Mr. Meyer describes Strindberg as a pioneer in ''the depiction of men and women driven by love, hatred, jealousy or a mixture of all three to that nightmare border country where hysteria abuts on madness.'' He says Strindberg was someone who ''explored those dark corners of the human soul which most of us seal off like poisoned wells; he was unbalanced, but so were most explorers of that country -- Swift, Melville, Dostoyevsky, Kafka.''
        In his translations of Ibsen and Strindberg, Mr. Meyer held fast to one of his cardinal rules: he stripped away archaisms but he did not modernize the dialogue. By keeping the language in context, he was able to secure a longer life for his translations. They outlive the vernacular and the topical, retaining their classical dimension.
        Because Mr. Meyer was himself a playwright, they are eminently playable, and they have been acted by the most important English actors, including Laurence Olivier, Peggy Ashcroft, Anthony Hopkins and Vanessa Redgrave.
        For such an expert, Mr. Meyer was a latecomer to his profession. He was born in London and studied at Oxford University. During World War II, he was at first a conscientious objector, then served three years as a civilian with the British Bomber Command. From 1947 to 1950 he was a lecturer in English literature at Uppsala University in Sweden, where he learned Swedish.
        In Sweden he wrote a novel and, later, several plays: ''The Ortolan'' was staged at Oxford with Maggie Smith, then at the beginning of her career. It was Mr. Meyer's translation of Frans G. Bengtsson's novel ''The Long Ships'' that brought him to the attention of the BBC, which commissioned him to translate Ibsen's ''Little Eyolf'' for radio.
        At the time, he knew only rudimentary Norwegian, but he soon learned the language and wrote television versions of ''The Lady from the Sea'' and ''John Gabriel Borkman,'' which starred Olivier, Irene Worth and Pamela Brown.
        He was then asked to translate all 16 of Ibsen's major plays, and also to write a biography of the playwright. The work on Ibsen overlapped with his translations of 18 Strindberg plays. As he said, ''Translating plays suddenly became a way of life for me.''
        The 651-page Strindberg biography was published in 1985. With characteristic specificity, Mr. Meyer said that each biography took him five and a quarter years to write.
        In his review of ''Strindberg'' in The New York Times, John Gross said: ''Michael Meyer proves as admirable a guide to this problematic genius as anyone could ask . . . as the foremost English translator of Strindberg, he brings to bear the authority both of a scholar and a man of the theater.''
        The Strindberg was dedicated to Graham Greene, whom Mr. Meyer met during the war. ''Later we traveled together,'' he said. ''We sat on either end of our veranda in Tahiti, I translating 'The Ghost Sonata' while he wrote 'A Burnt-Out Case.' '' Later in his memoir, ''Words Through a Windowpane,'' he wrote about Greene, George Orwell, Arthur Koestler, Ralph Richardson and other literary and theatrical friends.
        Mr. Meyer is survived by a daughter, Nora.
        Although he wrote on other subjects, he seemed obsessed with the two towering Scandinavians. He wrote a play about Ibsen in his later years and a play about Strindberg from boyhood to death. In 1991 in ''A Meeting in Rome,'' he brought the two of them together in a play about an imaginary encounter between the artists who had so dominated his own life.
        As Mr. Meyer writes in ''Ibsen,'' the two almost met in Italy in the spring of 1884, but Strindberg was held back by bad weather. If these two extraordinary men had met, Mr. Meyer conjectures, ''they might have got on rather well, for Strindberg, when his black mood was not on him, was a tremendous charmer, and he was the kind of emotional individualist . . . Ibsen found stimulating. And when Ibsen liked someone and put his own charm forward, there were few who could resist him.''
      