
        Sir Robin Day, a BBC broadcaster widely known as the ''grand inquisitor'' for a relentless and searching interviewing technique that revolutionized British television news, died on Sunday night. He was 76.
        He died in a London hospital where he was being treated for heart problems.
        For three decades, his polka dot bow ties, pin-striped suits and beetle-browed frown at unsatisfactory answers to penetrating questions made him one of Britain's best recognized presences. Outsize horn-rimmed glasses framing his craggy features added to the look of unforgiving scrutiny.
        His arrival on British television in the 1950's put an end to a deferential manner of interviewing derided since as the ''What have you to say to a grateful nation, Prime Minister?'' style. Sir Robin combined a prosecutorial method learned from his Oxford legal education and his presidency of the Oxford Union debating society with a theatrical flair more typical of a music hall showman than a staid and reverential British news reader of the period.
        He was studiously courteous, never more so than when asking the same question again by apologizing for not having made himself clear in the first place. It was calculated to keep the audience on his side, and it worked. He not only pressed his right to ask a question, but he also insisted on a responsive answer and enforced the demand with glowers and expressions of incredulity when he did not get one.
        Though his approach was revolutionary, he was not. He was a staunch monarchist with a love of politics and the law and a respect for Parliament that led him in recent years to complain that some of his successors were guilty of disrespect and bullying in their treatment of elected officials.
        Government ministers often complained of being mauled by him on the air. One even fled the studio in mid-interview.
        But they eventually adjusted to the robust cut-and-thrust exchanges that have become the norm in British public affairs broadcasting and something of a blood-rite measure of the mettle of the modern British politician.
        Baroness Thatcher, one of Sir Robin's frequent combatants, greeted the news of his death by saying, ''Our paths often crossed, and I always enjoyed the joust.''
        Those encounters were blunt and lively by the standards of the times. In one of them, Sir Robin tried to curb her habit of turning appearances on his program into political broadcasts, saying, ''Can I get this question in, Prime Minister, because we're having an interview, which must depend on me asking some questions occasionally.''
        On another broadcast, he asked her whether she intended to fire certain cabinet members. ''You're going further than I wish to go,'' she said.
        ''Well, naturally, that's part of my job, Prime Minister,'' he answered.
        ''Yes, indeed,'' she countered. ''It's part of my job to stop you.''
        She later showed her irritation with his persistence by icily and repeatedly calling him ''Mr. Day,'' although he had just been knighted.
        It was her defense minister, Sir John Nott, who lost patience, pulled the microphone from his lapel and rushed away during questioning by Sir Robin about disagreements between Sir John and Royal Navy admirals about budget cuts after the Falklands War in 1982.
        Sir Robin asked, ''Why should the public on this issue believe you, a transient, and if I may say, 'here-today-gone-tomorrow' politician rather than a senior officer of many years' experience?'' The next sounds in the tape are the wrench of fabric and hastily departing footsteps.
        Sir Robin brought a fresh directness to the air. In a 1973 conversation with Lord Lambton, an Air Force minister who had left office in disgrace, Sir Robin said, ''Why should a man of your social position and charm and personality have to go to whores for sex ?''
        In one of the four books he wrote about his life, television and Parliament, he laid out these ground rules for correct political interviewing:
        *''The interviewer should be firm and courteous. Questioning should be tenacious and persistent, but civil. I shudder to watch interviewers who think it clever to be snide, supercilious, or downright offensive.
        *''The interviewer should be totally in charge. Too many TV interviews are incompetent, because the interviewer is treated by the unseen producer as a puppet and is told what to ask.
        *''The interviewer should know, or at any rate appear to know, at least as much about the subject under discussion as the person being interviewed.''
        Robin Day was born in Hampstead in North London, the son of a telephone engineer. After secondary school, at the Bembridge School on the Isle of Wight, he served from 1943 to 1947 in the Royal Artillery in Northern Ireland and Kenya and then went to Oxford, where he received his law degree. He practiced law only briefly before going to Washington in 1953 to work as a press officer for the British Information Services.
        He returned to London and answered an ad for a ''newscaster,'' a new job description in British life, for ITN, the new commercial Independent Television News that was being organized in the mid-50's. In 1958, he interviewed Harold Macmillan in what The Daily Express called ''the most vigorous cross-examination a prime minister has been subject to in public.''
        A year later, Sir Robin ran unsuccessfully for Parliament from Hereford as a Liberal, and after his defeat, he went to work for the British Broadcasting Corporation.
        He made his name on two major public affairs programs, ''Panorama,'' a topical magazine, and ''Question Time,'' which featured a live audience and four guests from public life. He was also the central figure in  broadcasting national elections, and for eight years he presented ''The World at 1'' on radio. At the height of his career, he was more famous than many of the people he interviewed.
        His active career ended in 1989, and in recent years he lived alone in an apartment near Parliament and became a fixture at the lunch table at the venerable Garrick Club. He married Katherine Ainslie, an Australian-born law professor at Oxford who was 17 years his junior, in 1965. The marriage ended in divorce in 1986. The couple had two sons, Alexander and Daniel, and in his best-selling memoir of 1989, ''Grand Inquisitor'' he dedicated words of E. Smith, the Earl of Birkenhead, as counsel to them.
        They read, ''The world continues to offer glittering prizes to those who have stout hearts and sharp swords.''
      