
        Gordon B. Spivack, a prominent antitrust lawyer and former senior Justice Department official, died at his home in New Haven on Sunday. He was 71.
        The cause was colon cancer, said Stephen M. Hudspeth, head of the litigation department at Coudert Brothers, the New York City law firm where Mr. Spivack was a senior partner from 1986 until his death.
        As a lawyer for Coudert and earlier for the firm of Lord, Day & Lord, now defunct, Mr. Spivack's roster of clients included some of the nation's biggest companies, including Cargill, Chevron and Union Carbide. He also represented the Coca-Cola Company for decades, defending the company's often-challenged relationship with bottlers and distributors, and spent much of the 1980's successfully defending Fischbach & Moore, a big electrical contractor, against bid-rigging charges.
        Mr. Spivack's move from Lord, Day to Coudert in 1986 played a small but influential role in the evolution of New York's legal profession from a clubby business ruled by tradition into a more open industry. As a government lawyer in the 1950's and 1960's, Mr. Spivack won cases that brought fines and jail time to executives at large corporations including General Electric and Westinghouse.
        Born in New Haven, Mr. Spivack graduated from Yale in 1950. After graduation he joined the United States Army, becoming a sergeant first class in the Army's medical corps. Mr. Spivack returned to New Haven in 1952 to enroll in Yale Law School, from which he graduated first in the class of 1955.
        That year, when Herbert Brownell Jr. was attorney general, Mr. Spivack joined the Justice Department's antitrust division. Mr. Spivack was the government's lead lawyer when it sued executives at G.E. and Westinghouse in 1960, accusing them of fixing the price of large electrical generators.
        In 1965, Mr. Spivack became the department's director of operations, supervising 350 trial lawyers. But in 1967 he returned to Yale Law School as a professor of antitrust law and civil procedure.
        ''Antitrust was his lifeblood,'' said Mr. Hudspeth, who was a student of Mr. Spivack. ''He lived the antitrust law and believed it was a cornerstone of our democratic polity and of our economic freedom.''
        In 1970, Mr. Brownell was a partner at Lord, Day and that year he lured Mr. Spivack out of academia to start Lord, Day's antitrust group (though Mr. Spivack taught at Yale at night until 1978). He remained there for more than 15 years, while serving on the President's Commission for Revision of Antitrust Law and Procedures in the late 1970's.
        But in 1986, Mr. Spivack took himself, 17 other lawyers and all of his clients to Coudert.
        Tellingly, perhaps, Mr. Spivack changed firms because he wanted seven of his associates made into partners and Lord, Day agreed to promote only two.
        ''To me it's insane to tell people who are highly qualified, 'Go find some other firm because we got some fixed ratio between partners and associates,' '' Mr. Spivack said at the time. ''I thought I did owe it to these people. Since my own firm did not recognize this, I went looking for someone who did.''
        At that time, the Spivack defection was perhaps the biggest ever from a major Manhattan law firm, and it helped usher in an era in which much of New York's legal community turned its back on many traditional ways of doing business. Lord, Day itself could not make the transition and closed its doors in 1994.
        Mr. Spivack is survived by his wife, Dolores T., of New Haven; a brother, Irving, of Woodbridge, Conn.; two sons, Michael D., of Miami, and Paul S., of New York; and two grandchildren.
      