
        Edward J. Logue, an urban development czar who organized radical renewal programs to combat municipal decay in New Haven, Boston and New York State, died on Thursday at his home in West Tisbury, Mass. He was 78.
        In a career spanning three decades, Mr. Logue spent the 1950's renewing New Haven, the 1960's revitalizing Boston and the 1970's running building programs in New York State. Throughout, he said, he was always guided by his humanistic motto of ''planning with people.''
        His critics, however, said he was highhanded, confrontational and ''another Robert Moses'' -- a reference to the imperious New York City master builder.
        Mr. Logue's greatest triumph was  his development of the Boston waterfront, which he called a ''Walkway to the Sea.'' Officially, it is the Faneuil Hall-Quincy Market restoration.
        ''It hit a series of themes just right for the time,'' wrote Bernard J. Frieden and Lynne B. Sagalyn in their book ''Downtown, Inc.'' (MIT Press, 1989). ''For a mass public that had discovered gourmet food, the central arcade served it up in volume and with flair. For a public with a fresh interest in history, the market presented authentic 150-year-old buildings and cobbled paths rich with historic associations. For a generation that had discovered sidewalk cafes and bustling piazzas in Europe, the market brought these pleasures home.''
        Other elements of the ''New Boston'' that Mr. Logue devised and oversaw were the new Government Center, the completion of the Prudential Center and a broad overhaul of neighborhoods that gave the city a fresh self-image and attracted tourists from around the world.
        It became one of the most copied community development projects in the country.
        Mr. Logue made his first big splash in the mid-1950s when Mayor Richard C. Lee of New Haven named him development administrator, and Mr. Logue oversaw the rebuilding of the city's downtown. Given broad authority that previously had been parceled out among several agencies, Mr. Logue reshaped much of the city.
        ''He was one of the first, if not the very first, to figure out how to tap federal funds that were sitting out there waiting to be used for redevelopment projects,'' said Norman Marcus, who worked with Mr. Logue as general counsel to the New York City Planning Commission from 1963 to 1985.
        But Mr. Logue's work in New Haven is not judged a success today. ''It's been heavily criticized,'' Mr. Marcus said.
        ''Partly that was because it took too long to do -- quite a few years,'' he said. ''By the time it was finished, it was too late. The market was gone. Shopping had shifted from downtown to the malls in the suburbs. The green had become a wasteland.''
        But that would not be understood for years to come, and consequently Mayor John F. Collins of Boston hired Mr. Logue to head Boston's Redevelopment Authority. From there Mr. Logue went on to New York City.
        Sometimes to his detriment and sometimes to great acclaim, Mr. Logue thought big.
        ''He used to say you've got to think big if you want to get anywhere,'' Mr. Marcus said. ''But his appetite was larger than his ability to digest. He often reached too high.
        ''He was a force with tremendous energy,'' Mr. Marcus continued. ''Ed wasn't the kind of person who would sit down at the table and negotiate. He intended to run things by himself. In New York City, there were people who resisted that. They didn't want another Robert Moses-type strong man. Ed scared a lot of people.''
        Mr. Marcus also praised Mr. Logue for his daring and imaginativeness. ''When he came to Charlotte Street, a notorious scene of desolation in the South Bronx, he decided not to do the obvious thing and build row houses or six-story apartment buildings there,'' Mr. Marcus said. ''Instead, he built single-family houses with yards and white picket fences. Some people laughed at first. But he was a smart fellow. That redevelopment worked because he was recreating the American dream, and they're still there today.''
        But apart from the South Bronx, Mr. Logue's efforts in New York City, at the behest of Mayor John V. Lindsay, are widely regarded as failures.
        ''Although Mayor Lindsay had hired him, he eventually decided to back the constituency that opposed Ed,'' Mr. Marcus said.
        Edward Joseph Logue was born on Feb. 7, 1921, in Philadelphia, one of five children of Edward J. and Resina Fay Logue. He was a graduate of Yale College in 1942 and Yale Law School in 1947.
        In World War II, he served in the Air Force, winning the Air Medal with clusters.
        After the war, he was legal secretary to Governor Chester Bowles of Connecticut.
        Among other jobs, he led Nelson Rockefeller's New York State Urban Development Corporation and his own company, Logue Development, a consulting firm.
        Mr. Logue is survived by his wife, Margaret DeVane Logue; a son, William DeVane Logue of West Hartford, Conn.; a daughter, Katherine, of West Tisbury, and four grandchildren.
      