
        John C. Harsanyi, who won the 1994 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science for his work on game theory, died on Wednesday in Berkeley, Calif.
        Mr. Harsanyi, 80, was a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley, for 25 years until 1990. He had Alzheimer's disease and died of a heart attack at home in Berkeley, according to his son, Tom.
        A Hungarian of Jewish descent, Mr. Harsanyi barely escaped from the forced-labor unit he was drafted into outside Budapest near the end of World War II. While waiting at a crowded railway station to be deported to a mine, Mr. Harsanyi removed his sweater with its yellow star and walked away, his son said.
        A guard stopped him and asked him what he was doing there. Mr. Harsanyi, according to his son, said: ''I am here to visit one of my Jewish friends who is going to be deported. I think it is important that we stand by our friends in their time of need.'' The guard let him go. Tom Harsanyi said that of the workers in the forced- labor unit, only his father and three others, who jumped from the train, survived.
        Mr. Harsanyi won the Nobel award for his work in game theory, which concentrates on competition among players, using mathematics to forecast the outcome of games, like chess, and also trade wars, hostile takeovers, price wars and other political and economic conflicts. Unlike theories used to explain the interaction in a market of many participants, game theory deals with the fact that when there are just a few players, all of them have to worry about the response of their opponent.
        Mr. Harsanyi shared the award with two other economists, John F. Nash of Princeton University and Reinhard Selten of the University of Bonn. Mr. Nash laid out the basic principles of game theory, but he assumed that the players all shared the same information and were driven by self-interest. Mr. Harsanyi made the theory work when rivals did not know much at all about what the other planned to do. He did this, in part, by assigning probabilities to the possible moves of the players and the outcomes.
        ''He found a way to allow people to think systematically about markets in which there were a small number of players who had access to different information,'' said John Quigley, a professor of economics at Berkeley and the former chairman of the economics department.
        ''For a large set of circumstances, game theory is the way people think today,'' Mr. Quigley said. Mr. Harsanyi's work, Mr. Quigley added, ''was instrumental in making economic theory fit the imperfect world in which we live.''
        Mr. Harsanyi was born in Budapest on May 29, 1920. His parents were Jewish but converted to Catholicism before he was born. He was raised as a Catholic. His main interests were in mathematics and philosophy. But because of the political uncertainty of the time, he earned a degree in pharmacology so that he could work in his father's pharmacy. He was drafted into the forced-labor unit after Germany occupied Hungary during World War II.
        After the war, Mr. Harsanyi remained in Hungary, earning a doctorate in philosophy from the University of Budapest. He was an assistant professor of sociology at the univeristy until the late 1940's, when his views clashed with those of the Communist government. He quit his job and returned to work in his father's pharmacy.
        In 1950, he escaped over the border to Austria with his future wife, Anne, and traveled to Australia. He married Anne on Jan. 2, 1951, three days after arriving in Sydney.
        He went to the University of Sydney at night to earn a master's degree in economics and became a lecturer in economics at the University of Queensland in Brisbane in 1954. But his son, Tom, said that his father felt that he could not be effective in his field from Australia. So in 1956, he enrolled in the Ph.D. program in economics at Stanford University and studied under Kenneth Arrow, a future Nobel winner in economics.
        He returned to Australia to teach economics at the Australian National University from 1958 to 1961 and then returned to the United States to Wayne State University in Detroit from 1961 to 1963. He went to the Haas School at Berkeley in 1964 as a visiting professor and became a full professor in 1965. He was appointed a professor in the Berkeley economics department in 1966.
        In 1964, before Mr. Harsanyi developed his procedure for dealing with game theory players with incomplete information, he was asked to be one of 10 game theorists to advise the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency on negotiations with the Soviet Union. The 10 advisers said they could not help because both ''players'' had too little information about the other side.
        Mr. Harsanyi is survived by his wife, Anne, of Berkeley, and his son, of Somerville, Mass.
      