
        Walter Chappell, whose finely detailed, impeccably printed photographs of landscapes, natural forms and the human body were known for their mystical intensity, died on Tuesday in Santa Fe. He was 75 and lived in El Rito in northern New Mexico.
        The cause was complications from lung cancer and a lung infection, said his companion, Linda Elvira Piedra.
        Although his work is represented in museums across the country, Mr. Chappell was not widely known outside the world of art photography. Within the field he was a constant if peripatetic presence for more than  40 years. From 1957 to 1961 he was curator of prints and exhibitions at George Eastman House in Rochester and was affiliated with Aperture, the photography magazine (and now book publisher) founded by the photographer Minor White in 1952.
        In the early 1960's he was the driving force behind the Association of Heliographers Archive Gallery, a photographers cooperative and gallery on Lexington Avenue whose members included Paul Caponigro, Marie Cosindas and Nicholas Dean. He published several books of photographs and wrote widely on the subject, promulgating ideas influenced by the writings of G. I. Gurdjieff.
        A student of White and Edward Weston, Mr. Chappell worked in a tradition founded by Alfred Stieglitz that viewed photography as the means to a deeper reality and therefore the certain equal of painting, poetry and music. It revered precise darkroom technique as crucial in communicating this reality to the viewer. His richly toned black-and-white images exuded an almost tantric air of concentration and often considerable sexual charge. An exhibition of vintage photographs from 1954 to 1978 at the Roth Horowitz Gallery in Manhattan in March, his first show in New York in nearly 20 years, included images of desert rocks cast in dark shadow and a large fern curling across the torso of a pregnant woman, and most startling, a close-up of a woman's vulva just after childbirth.
        With photography as the anchor of his life, and trained in several other arts and crafts as well, Mr. Chappell was a free spirit. He moved dozens of times, built 25 darkrooms and at least three houses for himself; painted, played the piano and wrote poetry throughout his life and also made films. Beginning in the early 1960's, he was also a nudist, weather and social conditions permitting. He supported himself as an oyster fisherman, carpenter and house builder and as a photographer of celebrities. (His subjects included Nico, Sharon Tate and Dennis Hopper.) In two marriages and several long-term relationships he had seven children.
        He was born in Portland in 1925, the son of a contralto who sang with the Portland Symphony Choir and a train engineer who was one-quarter American Indian. He lived his first three years on the Yumatillo Indian Reservation in northeast Oregon, which left him permanently enthralled with American Indian ceremonies. After the family moved to Portland, he studied music at a conservatory at age 6, then attended the Benson Polytechnical School, majoring in architectural drawing. He met White, who became a lifelong friend and mentor, when he was 17.
        After being a paratrooper in World War II, Mr. Chappell made San Francisco his base for several years, joining a circle of photographers that included White, Weston, Imogen Cunningham and Ansel Adams. In the mid-1950's he was found to have tuberculosis and spent three years in a sanitarium in Denver. While recuperating he studied with the photographer Winter Prather, a master technician who made his own lenses and cameras.
        Once recovered, Mr. Chappell moved to Rochester, N.Y., where he resumed studying printmaking with White, who was working at Eastman House, and began working there himself. In 1957 he had his first New York exhibition at George Wittenborn Inc.
        After leaving Eastman House in 1961, Mr. Chappell settled in Wingdale, N.Y., where a fire destroyed his house and nearly all his work that year. In 1963, after a second house he built on the same property was taken for a power line, he relocated to the Pacific Coast, living in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Hawaii and Big Sur and exhibiting his work in local galleries at nearly every stop. He lived in or near Santa Fe from 1965 to 1970 and returned to the area in 1979. In 1987 he settled in El Rito in a house that he mostly built himself on an existing foundation.
        Mr. Chappell's first wife, Patricia Schmid, whom he married in 1956, died in 1959. He was married to his second wife, Suzanne Lechau, from 1977 to 1984. In addition to Ms. Piedra, he is survived by his son, Dharma, of Bend, Ore., whose mother is Leslie Spears; the four sons that he had with Nancy Barrett Dickinson, Theo, of Ukiah, Calif., Aryan, of Redwood Valley, Calif., Piki, of San Francisco, and Robin, of Eugene, Ore.; a daughter, Riversong, of Spokane, Wash., whose mother is Ms. Lechau; and a stepdaughter, Ajna Lechau, of New York City.
      