
        There was a time when the shady patches of America's gardens were virtually a horticultural no-man's land: drab expanses where gardeners planted the laconically blooming hosta and hoped for the best, or just threw up their hands and put in ferns or coleus.
        There was a time, in other words, when the impatiens -- at least, as it is now known -- did not exist. Before Claude Hope, a horticulturist who died July 14 at the age of 93, noticed a gangly, lopsided flower growing wild in Costa Rica and thought he might be onto something.
        If such a time seems hard to remember, it is because the impatiens is now the No. 1 bedding plant in America, so plentiful that if the word ubiquitous did not exist, it might have to be invented.
        Mr. Hope, who died at his 200-acre farm, Linda Vista, in the Costa Rican village of Dulce Nombre de Jesus,  was known among many gardening enthusiasts as the Father of the Impatiens. It was Mr. Hope who in the 1960's, through years of breeding and hybridizing, turned the unruly impatiens of the wild into the compact, reliable mass of blooms that now poke their heads up -- too often, its detractors say -- in yards, window boxes and public spaces across North America.
        ''There had never been a plant that bloomed in the shade to such profusion and color,'' said George Ball Jr., chairman of the W. Atlee Burpee seed company.
        Claude Hope was born May 10, 1907, in Sweetwater, Tex., where he grew up on a dairy farm. In 1941, when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, Mr. Hope was working for the federal Agriculture Department in Maryland. He was drafted into the Army and immediately put to work on a project to develop an American supply of quinine, needed to treat malaria among soldiers fighting in the Pacific.
        The Japanese and Germans had seized control of most of the world's supply of the drug. But the United States was able to fly four million seeds for Cinchona ledgeriana -- from which quinine was made -- out of the Philippines, before it fell to Japan, according to a profile of Mr. Hope by Allen Lacy that appeared in Horticulture magazine in the early 1980's.
        Mr. Hope was sent to Costa Rica with the sprouted seeds and asked to help create a cinchona farm. Although the project failed, scientists were able to produce synthetic antimalarial drugs. In the meantime, Mr. Hope had become entranced with the rugged beauty of Costa Rica, and the possibilities it held for starting a big seed company.
        He returned to Costa Rica for good after the war, when he helped found the PanAmerican Seed Company. In 1953 he established Linda Vista, S.A., which over the years grew from a six-employee operation to a sprawling enterprise employing more than a thousand people. It is one of the biggest flower seed producers in the world. Mr. Hope retired as president of Linda Vista in 1989, but continued to work on the farm.
        Mr. Hope, who never married and has no immediate survivors, was widely known as El Capitan -- a reference to his Army rank -- and he patrolled his farm in khaki and pith helmet, a walkie-talkie strapped to his waist.
        His first success was a red petunia called the Comanche, and Mr. Hope worked with a wide variety of other plants, from daisies to melons. He dreamed of producing pepper plants that would yield fruit of varying color, and tomato plants with flowers big enough to be considered ornamental. But it was the impatiens that changed the face of American gardening.
        Mr. Hope had noticed the flower, which originated as a river plant in Africa, soon after arriving in Costa Rica during the war. ''A successful breeder has to be a good observer,'' he told The Washington Post in 1992. ''You have to know every characteristic of the plant, and you have to watch it every day.''
        Through trial and error, he set about to develop a plant more suited to North Americans' gardening needs. The result was a white flower, the first in the F1 Elfin series of impatiens. This was followed by the Super Elfin series. Now there are an estimated 900 species of impatiens, in numerous colors and, increasingly, varying shapes.
        Whatever pleasure it has brought untold gardeners, the flower has also engendered a bit of scorn among some.
        ''People to have a tendency to be contemptuous of what is familiar,'' said Mr. Lacy, now the editor of Homeground, a newsletter for gardeners. ''And the impatiens certainly are familiar: they bloom their heads off.''
        Although he never turned on the impatiens, Mr. Hope, too, was a critic of his industry, and especially the powerful role played by the marketing departments and their customer surveys.
        ''A survey can't tell you what people might buy in the future, if it happened to be available,'' Mr. Hope  told Horticulture. ''So the hybridizer, the seedsman who has his eye cocked to the future, has got to take risks, to use his imagination to dream up something new, and then work his tail off trying to make it a reality.''
      