
        Edward Brodsky, a nationally prominent courtroom lawyer who specialized in securities cases and criminal law cases, died on Friday in New Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan and Southampton, N.Y.
        He had chronic lymphocytic leukemia, a family spokesman said.
        At his death, Mr. Brodsky was a senior partner in the Manhattan-based law firm of Proskauer Rose, which he joined in 1992 after being a partner in two Manhattan firms.
        He was president of the American College of Trial Lawyers in 1997 and 1998.
        Mr. Brodsky was the defense lawyer of Meade Esposito, a retired Democratic Party leader in Brooklyn, who was indicted on charges of making illegal payments to Mario Biaggi, a Democratic Congressman from the Bronx. In 1987, Mr. Esposito was acquitted of bribery and convicted of a misdemeanor, giving a gratuity to a public official. He was fined $500,000 and given a suspended sentence.
        Mr. Brodsky represented many companies charged with securities fraud. Among the cases were a number of civil actions involving corporations controlled by the financier Ivan F. Boesky, who pleaded guilty to a criminal charge of securities fraud.
        Mr. Brodsky argued twice before the Supreme Court in connection with criminal cases, the more recent of which involved an aspect of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
        He also represented the village of Southampton in an action brought in the late 1980's by a company whose owner said that the village had deprived him of his property rights by failing to permit him to do certain construction on his house. After a jury sided with the company, Mr. Brodsky obtained dismissal of the action in a federal appeals court.
        In the late 1950's and early 1960's, he held posts in the Department of Justice in Washington, including the post of special attorney in the Attorney General's group on organized crime, before becoming an assistant United States attorney in the Southern District of New York, where he became chief of the special prosecutions division.
        He was a co-author of the book ''Law of Corporate Officers and Directors'' (1985, Thomson) and he wrote, until his death, a monthly column on corporate and securities litigation for The New York Law Journal.
        A native New Yorker, he received a bachelor's degree from City College of the City University of New York and his law degree cum laude from New York University School of Law, where he was associate editor of The Law Review.
        He is survived by his wife, Cynthia; three sons, Peter, Bill and James, all of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      