
        Ross Lee Finney III, a mathematician whose textbooks have instructed millions of high school and college students, died on Aug. 3 in Carmel Valley, Calif. A former resident of Lincoln, Mass., he was 67.
        The cause was a cancer-related illness, according to his publisher, Addison-Wesley of Reading, Mass.
        Dr. Finney wrote many textbooks on the various functions of calculus, and he wrote book chapters, articles and research papers throughout his career. For nearly 25 years, he collaborated with Dr. George B. Thomas of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to produce a highly successful text, ''Calculus and Analytic Geometry,'' which recently went into its 10th edition. A third edition of another book, ''Calculus,'' was released last year.
        Dr. Finney also wrote parts of a widely used calculus text for advanced-placement programs in high school.
        Ross Finney, a son of the composer Ross Lee Finney, was born in Springfield, Mass., and received his undergraduate and Ph.D. degrees at the University of Michigan in the 1950's and 1960's. He was a Fulbright scholar at the Poincare Institute in Paris in 1956 and 1957 and started teaching at Princeton University in 1963.
        While at the University of Illinois from 1966 to 1976, he wrote textbooks and developed curriculums for schools in Africa for the African Mathematics Program.
        He helped train Peace Corps volunteers for teaching in Ghana and other countries, and traveled extensively to Africa. He also worked to improve the teaching of mathematics in China.
        He taught at M.I.T. from 1980 to 1990. He served as a senior mathematics editor and consultant at the Education Development Center in Newton, Mass., where he directed the Undergraduate Mathematics and Its Applications Project and served as founding editor of its journal.
        Dr. Finney is survived by his wife, Rose; a son, Nathaniel, of San Diego;  a daughter, Dorthea Finney of San Diego, and a brother, Prof. Henry Finney of Los Alamos, N.M.
      