
        Robert B. Watson, dean of students at Harvard University during the student uprisings of the late 1960's and later the driving force behind the construction of sports facilities as the university's athletic director, died on Saturday at his home in Cataumet, Mass. He was 86.
        A popular but firm administrator in the early part of his career at Harvard, Mr. Watson was taken aback by the events of April 9, 1969, when he and other administrators were forcibly removed from their offices by student protesters at the height of the Vietnam War.
        ''The breakdown of civility among students and faculty alike were direct attacks on everything he stood for,'' said Zeph Stewart, who was a senior tutor and house master at the time, ''and he himself and his unwavering loyalty to the old Harvard became targets of rebellion.''
        As Mr. Watson described it in 1987: ''Being a college dean then was like living in the public square of a small city occupied by enemy aliens. There was no place to take refuge from the maddening crowd.''
        Reared in the Boston suburb of Wellesley, Mr. Watson attended St. Mark's School and graduated from Harvard in 1937 after lettering in football and crew.
        After a few years at J. P. Morgan in New York, he joined the Navy in 1940. He married Polly Blodgett about one month after the bombing of Pearl Harbor.
        She survives him, along with three daughters, Gail Barber of Bedford, Mass., Jeannie of Weston, Mass., and Joanne Watson Spievack, of Cambridge, Mass.; two sons, Peter T., of Bainbridge Island, Wash., and Robert Jr., of Richmond, Va.; a brother, Edward, who lives in New Hampshire; and nine grandchildren.
        During the war, Mr. Watson served as executive officer on the destroyer Leary. He survived for five hours in the cold waters of the North Atlantic when his ship was torpedoed on Christmas Eve 1943.
        He gave his life jacket to another man and clung to a piece of wood until early morning when another warship rescued him and 56 crew mates; the 220 other men on board died. He told his children that his St. Mark's letterman sweater had saved his life.
        ''The one thought that kept recurring was: what I should do with my life if I was lucky enough to be picked up?'' he wrote later. ''The answer that came back repeatedly was: involve yourself in some field relating to the young.''
        Mr. Watson returned to Harvard in 1946 as an associate dean, becoming the college's first dean of students in 1958.
        In 1963, he touched off a debate over the university's enforcement of the hours during which students were allowed to entertain women in their rooms.
        ''There are public laws in this state,'' he said at the time, ''and it's our positive duty to deal with fornication just as we do with thievery, lying and cheating, by taking severe disciplinary measures against the offenders.''
        But arguments over parietal rules were timid compared with the 1969 protest against American involvement in Vietnam and other grievances. Students shoved and dragged Mr. Watson and eight other deans out of the main administration building before locking the doors with bicycle chains.
        The next day, the deans watched as 400 policemen charged the building and pulled the students, some of them bloodied, from the hall.
        ''In those crazy times, it was really important to be as straight and square as he was,'' said Fred L. Glimp, the dean of Harvard College at the time, who was also forcefully removed in the University Hall uprising. ''There wasn't much you could do about the emotional issues, but you'd try to keep the students from emotionally throwing themselves into impossible situations.''
        Mr. Watson served another year as dean and made dozens of court appearances as students who took part in the first and three other building takeovers were tried on charges of trespassing and assault.
        In 1970, he became athletic director and began a multimillion dollar renovation of Harvard's sports facilities, which Mr. Glimp called the ''most archaic in the Ivy League.'' Mr. Watson helped set in motion projects that included building a pool and a track before he retired in 1977.
      