
        Robert R. Gilruth, an early leader of the American space program and director of the Johnson Space Center during the Apollo lunar landings, died yesterday in Charlottesville, Va. He was 86 and lived near Warrenton, Va.
        Beyond the limelight occupied by astronauts, flight directors and former German rocket scientists, the reticent and laconic Mr. Gilruth stood aside when the cheering started, puffing on his pipe. When President John F. Kennedy pinned a medal on him in 1962, he froze, speechless, in front of the microphone. He was used to letting others speak for him and the program.
        But the relatively unknown Mr. Gilruth was at the center of things nearly every step of the way from the Sputnik launching in 1957 to the Moon landings that began in 1969.
        In 1958, he became director of the Space Task Group at Langley, Va., the nucleus for the nation's human spaceflight program. He oversaw the development of the Mercury spacecraft and made the flight assignments for the first astronauts. He ran the Manned Space Center (later renamed for President Lyndon B. Johnson) at Houston during the Gemini and Apollo projects, retiring in 1972.
        ''Gilruth's management style developed the best minds in the space program into the finest organization of its time,'' said Christopher C. Kraft Jr., a colleague from those days and his successor as the space center director. ''Personally, I had a higher regard for Gilruth than any other person in my lifetime.''
        Daniel S. Goldin, the NASA administrator, said that Mr. Gilruth's engineering skills and leadership ''directly contributed to the ultimate success of the Apollo program and the landing of a man on the Moon.''
        Robert Rowe Gilruth was born Oct. 8, 1913, in Nashwauk, Minn., a town on the Mesabi iron range near Duluth. He studied aeronautical engineering at the University of Minnesota, earning a master's degree. Then he joined the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics in Langley, NASA's predecessor agency, in 1937.
        There Mr. Gilruth led research using rockets to test the dynamics of vehicles at supersonic speeds. In 1945, he organized an engineering team to investigate rocket-powered aircraft.
        Mr. Gilruth would recall later that, after the first Sputnik launching by the Soviet Union on Oct. 4, 1957, he sensed his career might be headed in an even more ambitious direction. He remembered watching sunlight reflected off Sputnik as it passed over his home in Virginia.
        ''It put a new sense of value and urgency on things we had been doing,'' he said. ''When one month later the dog, Laika, was placed in orbit in Sputnik 2, I was sure that the Russians were planning for man in space.''
        On Oct. 7, 1958, the day before his 45th birthday, Mr. Gilruth was called into the office of T. Keith Glennan, administrator of the just-created NASA, and given the assignment of placing men in space. Mr. Glennan's order was terse: ''Go with the project.''
        As recounted in ''Suddenly, Tomorrow Came: A History of the Johnson Space Center,'' Mr. Gilruth gathered a group of fewer than 10 engineers and, working night and day, came up with all the basic principles of what would become Project Mercury, the first American human spaceflight program, begun in 1959. These included the design of the Mercury capsule, the choice of rockets and decisions on astronaut qualifications and mission control procedures.
        As head of the Space Task Group, responsible for the Mercury project, Mr. Gilruth worked with 34 other engineers and flight directors at Langley. It was a truly formative period for the country and space flight. As one of his former associates, Dr. George M. Low, once said, ''Everything we've done, our approach, has grown out of the Bob Gilruth formula for running Project Mercury.''
        Soon the task group outgrew its Langley headquarters and the political powers decided to move the operation to Houston, where a huge campuslike space center would be built. At first, Mr. Gilruth objected to James E. Webb, the new NASA administrator in the Kennedy administration.
        In ''Aiming for the Stars: The Dreamers and Doers of the Space Age'' (Smithsonian Institution Press), Tom D. Crouch, senior curator of the National Air and Space Museum, wrote: ''Gilruth suggested that it might be easier and less expensive to expand the existing Langley Research Center. 'Bob,' Webb replied, 'what the hell has Senator Harry Byrd ever done for you or NASA?' '' Senator Byrd represented Virginia at the time.
        Mr. Webb went on to explain that Houston was in the district of Representative Albert Thomas, who controlled NASA's budget, and in the home state of Vice President Lyndon Johnson, one of the space program's enthusiastic supporters.
        Mr. Gilruth is survived by his wife, Georgene Evans Gilruth, a daughter and a stepson.
        As the Apollo project was winding down, Mr. Gilruth could hardly wait to retire and devote full time to building the boat of his dreams, one in which he could circumnavigate the world. He completed a 52-foot multihull boat, sailed it to his retirement home in Virginia, but apparently never felt his nautical skills matched his astronautical ones. He never went around the world.
      