
        Harllee Branch Jr., a top utility executive and outspoken critic of such government-subsidized competitors as the Tennessee Valley Authority, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Atlanta. He was 94.
        Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Branch joined the Georgia Power Company in midcareer and quickly became its president. Then, in 1957, he was named chief executive of its parent, the Southern Company, a post he held until retiring in 1970.
        His career spanned a period of rapid industry growth and fierce debate over what he and other executives saw as unwarranted government encroachment into the business.
        A. W. Dahlberg, current chairman of Southern, called Mr. Branch ''one of the most eloquent orators I have ever heard -- one of a disappearing breed in corporate America.''
        On numerous occasions Mr. Branch lashed out at the forces of ''socialization'' that he said had seeped into both major political parties.
        ''Their maneuverings have almost always been accompanied by noisy denials of any intention to compete with or destroy investor-owned enterprises,'' Mr. Branch said in an address while heading the Edison Electric Institute, the industry's chief trade group. ''But as their plans have grown in magnitude and boldness, they have inexorably crowded out or proscribed privately financed operations, as in Tennessee and Nebraska.''
        He managed to hold his tongue, however, when his daughter, Kay, wrote a term paper during her freshman year in college in which she heaped praise on the T.V.A. and received a superior grade. ''He was appalled,'' she recounted yesterday. ''But he congratulated me -- though he felt they had inadequate research facilities'' at the college library and donated dozens of books to rectify an apparent imbalance.
        Mr. Branch also served as a member of the numerous government panels, including the Federal Advisory Council on Employment during the Johnson administration; the National Commission on Productivity under President Nixon; and as a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.
        One of six children of a newspaperman who served as city editor of The Atlanta Journal and its Washington correspondent, Mr. Branch graduated from Davidson College and worked as a cub reporter for the paper while at Emory University Law School.
        But upon graduation in 1931, the law prevailed and Mr. Branch joined what became the Atlanta law firm of MacDougald, Troutman, Sams & Branch. The firm was acting as general counsel to Georgia Power. He joined the electric company as vice president and general manager in 1949 and became president in 1951.
        Mr. Branch's academic ties included serving as trustee at Emory, Davidson and the Georgia Tech Research Institute and director of the Columbia Theological Seminary.
        In 1968 he received a brotherhood award from the National Conference of Christians and Jews. While not a publicly active proponent of racial integration, Mr. Branch worked on its behalf behind the scenes and was an occasional informal adviser to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, his daughter said.
        Besides serving on his own company's board, Mr. Branch at various times was a director of United States Steel, General Motors, Southern Railway, General Reinsurance and Interfinancial Inc.
        ''Harllee could respond to any question he was asked, no matter what the subject, with an extraordinary historical perspective,'' said Mr. Dahlberg, whose tenure at Southern overlapped Mr. Branch's between 1960 and 1970. ''His intellect was truly amazing.''
        Although of only average height and lacking an orator's booming voice, Mr. Branch, who did not use his given first name of William, was described as having the commanding presence of a leader and highly polished talent as a storyteller and raconteur. He delighted in fielding questions from students, whom he often addressed, the subject typically a vigorous promotion of the free-enterprise system.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Katherine Hunter, of Atlanta, whom he married in 1932; four children, William Harllee Branch III of Sacramento, Calif.; Barrington H. Branch, David S. Branch and Kay Branch McKenzie, all of Atlanta; 12 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren.
      