
        South African Judge Hassen Mall, an Indian immigrant who was the country's first nonwhite jurist and a key figure in the nation's searching effort to lay to rest its apartheid past, died Friday. He was 78, his son said.
        Judge Mall, who had been suffering both heart and kidney problems, was the chairman of the amnesty committee of the country's Truth and Reconciliation Commission. In that role, he weighed some of the worst atrocities of the apartheid era and the fate of those who perpetrated them.
        With his generally declining health and his eyesight greatly diminished over the last year because of cataracts, Judge Mall had greatly scaled back his work but he remained a devoted presence at the commission, his family and colleagues said.
        While the committee he headed hoped to finish hearing applications for amnesty by October, its work will last months beyond then as it considers the latest raft of cases.
        Hoping to expose the truth of the apartheid era and impart a spirit of reconciliation, South Africa offered amnesty to anyone who was candid and complete in accounting for acts of violence and could convince the commission that his or her actions were politically motivated.
        Hundreds of government agents and anti-government activists who tortured, bombed, killed and otherwise roiled the country during the liberation struggle have applied.
        Many have won amnesty; some have not, and the country itself is still not of one mind as to the ultimate merit of a process that has answered many questions but offered little justice.
        Judge Mall was for his part convinced of the commission's crucial place in the peaceful transformation of South Africa, his associates said. A bust of Gandhi adorned his office in Durban and he approached his work on the amnesty committee in a sober, deliberate manner, recalled Deborah Quin, an investigator for the committee, which was based in Durban, where Judge Mall also lived.
        ''He was a kind of very wise man, not cautious, but slow to come to a decision,'' Ms. Quin said today in an interview. ''He was very concerned about hearing all the sides. It was difficult to read in a hearing which way he was going to go. Some of the panel members are obvious, but he wasn't at all.''
        Born July 19, 1922, in the Indian village of Ghala, about 125 miles from Bombay, he came to South Africa with his family at the age of 4, his son Enver said today.
        Raised in Durban, he went on to study first at the University of Fort Hare and then at the University of Cape Town, where he earned his law degree, his son said.
        In 1988, after decades of practicing law, he was named an acting judge, the first nonwhite to be appointed to the bench. It was one of a number of signals during that tumultuous period that bigger changes lay ahead.
        Named a full judge in 1993, as the country prepared for the historic multiracial 1994 election, he served on the bench another few years before being selected by former President Nelson Mandela in 1995 to lead  the Truth and Reconciliation Commission's amnesty committee.
        ''He brought a certain independence of spirit,'' Yasmin Sooka, a commission member who worked with Judge Mall's committee, said today. ''He was not tainted or compromised.'' Indeed, he was widely respected among the country's human rights lawyers, she said, and they saw him as someone who would judge their cases fairly.
        Even as his health slipped, he remained dedicated to the work of the  commission, Ms. Sooka said, because he believed that it was ''one of the pillars on which democracy was built in our country.''
        Judge Mall was buried Friday evening. In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Sylvia, and two daughters, Marcina and Shereen.
      