
        Stephen J. Jatras, former president and chief executive of the Telex Corporation and a member of the Oklahoma Regents for Higher Education, died at his home in Tulsa, Okla., on Jan. 8. He was 73.
        The cause of death was complications from a brain tumor, his daughter, Stephanie Buffum, said.
        Born in McKeesport, Pa., Mr. Jatras worked at the Lockheed Corporation and Midwestern Instruments before joining Telex as its president in 1966.
        Mr. Jatras held that post until 1981, when Roger M. Wheeler, the entrepreneur who was chairman and chief executive of Telex, was shot and killed at a Tulsa country club.
        Mr. Jatras added Mr. Wheeler's titles, and presided over seven years of rising profits at the company, a producer of computer terminals and peripheral equipment.
        Hard times hit Telex in 1987, however.
        Earnings began to shrink and its stock price fell sharply. In response to those developments, a group led by Asher B. Edelman, the New York investor, began a hostile $888 million bid for the company.
        Telex repelled the takeover, but was left heavily in debt and tied to a new partner, Memorex.
        Mr. Jatras became vice chairman of Memorex Telex, a position he held until 1990, when he greatly scaled back his role at the company, a move leading to his retirement.
        In addition to his business career, Mr. Jatras was active in education.
        In 1984 he was named a member of the University of Tulsa board of trustees. In 1991 he was appointed to the Board of Regents of Tulsa Junior College, which subsequently became Tulsa Community College.
        In 1995, Gov. Frank Keating of Oklahoma named Mr. Jatras to a vacant seat on the Oklahoma Regents for Higher Education. In May of the following year he was appointed to a full nine-year term on the board.
        A 1995 inductee into the Oklahoma Hall of Fame, Mr. Jatras was a strong advocate of the expansion of OneNet, Oklahoma's statewide telecommunications and information network for education and government.
        Mr. Jatras received his bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Carnegie Mellon University, and an M. S. degree, also in electrical engineering, from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        He was a lifetime trustee of Carnegie-Mellon.
        A marriage to the former Frankie Jean McKinney ended in divorce.
        Mr. Jatras is survived by five children, Stephanie, of Tulsa; Andrew, of Boulder, Colo.; Cindy Hadden, of Tulsa; Todd, of Brooklyn; Shawn, of Ramona, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      