
        Lynn A. Townsend, a retired chairman and chief executive of the Chrysler Corporation, died Thursday at Botsford Continuing Health Center in Farmington Hills, Mich. The cause of death was not disclosed. He was 81.
        When Mr. Townsend retired in 1975, Chrysler was heavily in debt and incurring large losses as inflation and oil prices soared. Four years later, with the company on the brink of bankruptcy, Lee A. Iacocca took over.
        Mr. Townsend, an accountant, joined Chrysler as controller in 1957. After becoming Chrysler's president in 1961, Mr. Townsend was credited with strengthening the ailing company by decreasing its overhead expenses, improving its cars and revamping its dealer system. One of his first moves was to lay off thousands of white-collar workers from Chrysler's overloaded payroll -- a move that prompted some employees to nickname him ''the Brute.''
        Mr. Townsend's early plan worked. Each year brought improved financial results. And by 1968, Chrysler, which is now part of DaimlerChrysler A.G., had almost doubled its share of the domestic auto market.
        But problems began again in 1969 when profits fell. Many observers attributed the decline to bad management decisions. They said that the tight operational controls that had made the company successful in the early 1960's had been relaxed with disastrous results.
        Among the four largest American automakers, Chrysler appeared hardest hit by a recession in the 1970's. In 1974, the year before he retired, Mr. Townsend miscalculated the size of the auto market. Sales of new cars plunged and Chrysler was left with thousands of new cars and little cash to pay its bills. To get through, the company cut car prices and closed most of its plants for a month.
        In April 1975, at Chrysler's annual meeting, investors and laid-off employees pummeled Mr. Townsend with questions and some asked him to resign.
        He did so unexpectedly three months later at the age of 56, saying that he believed that the interests of the company would best be served by ''an early and orderly transition of leadership to our younger executives.''
        He said he had reached his decision to retire on his own and that no one had pressured him to leave. He said that he had made up his mind years earlier that he would not serve until he was 65 because that would mean he would have dominated the company for a quarter of a century and ''the impact of one man'' would have been too great.
        Mr. Townsend graduated from the University of Michigan in 1941 with a master's degree in business administration. Before he joined Chrysler, he worked as an accountant at Touche, Ross, Bailey & Smart, where he audited the books of the firm's major client, Chrysler.
        During World War II, Mr. Townsend served as disbursing officer on the aircraft carrier Hornet in the Pacific.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth; three sons, James, Charles and Richard; and eight grandchildren.
        Mr. Townsend made it a point to be home at 6:30 each night and rarely worked overtime. He told his children he had 180,000 people working for him so the job should get done.
      