
        A. Reynolds Morse, a wealthy businessman and collector whose passion for the work of Salvador Dali resulted in the founding of a popular small museum, died on Aug. 15 at a nursing home in Seminole, Fla. He was 85 and lived in St. Petersburg, Fla., where he and his wife, Eleanor Reese Morse, with help from the state, founded the Salvador Dali Museum in 1982.
        Mr. Morse was born in Denver in 1914 and graduated from the University of Colorado in Boulder with a degree in geology. He received a master's degree from the Harvard Business School in 1939.
        Around 1941, while working for the Reed Prentice Corporation, makers of plastic injection molding machines in Worcester, Mass., Mr. Morse was sent to Cleveland to set up a branch office. There he met Eleanor Reese, the daughter of a Cleveland businessman. They first saw Dali's work in a traveling Museum of Modern Art show in 1941 and were immediately drawn to it. When they married in 1943, they bought their first Dali, ''Daddy Longlegs of the Evening -- Hope!'' (1940), as a wedding present to themselves.
        Within a year they had three more Dalis, all from the early 30's. ''We plunged instead of hedging,'' Mr. Morse said, ''and after a while I was becoming known as the nut who was backing a dark horse. Or vice versa.'' They embarked on a sometimes turbulent friendship with Dali and his wife, Gala. They had first pick of his New York gallery shows and usually paid the tab for post-opening dinners at the Pierre Hotel.
        The Morses said they bought only works that they were in love with, even when Dali himself advised them to get others. They amassed nearly 100 paintings and more than 1,000 drawings, watercolors, prints and objects, as well as film and designs for clothing, furniture and ballet sets. Their holdings include not only numerous paintings from the late 1920's and early 30's, widely considered Dali's best period, but also examples of his precocious early work and epic late paintings.
        Mr. Morse published seven books on Dali, who died in 1989.
        By 1971, the collection had outgrown the Morses' modest farmhouse outside Cleveland, and they opened a Dali museum in a wing of the Injection Molders Supply Company, which they had founded in 1949 in Beachwood, Ohio. By the mid-70's, again cramped for space and fearful that estate taxes would force the dispersal of the collection, they began to search for a permanent home.
        Museums were put off by the restriction that the collection be kept intact. In 1980, after an aggressive campaign by James W. Martin, a lawyer from St. Petersburg, the Morses gave the collection to that city. The Florida legislature appropriated $2 million to renovate a plain, thick-walled marine equipment warehouse that Mr. Morse selected over more impressive structures.
        The museum opened in 1982, and attendance has quadrupled. That first year, 57,000 people visited, and in 1999, 225,000.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Morse is survived by his son, Brad, of Chagrin Falls, Ohio, and two grandsons.
      