
        Grand Rabbi Shlomo Halberstam, a Holocaust survivor whose gentle charisma nurtured the exuberant postwar rebirth of the Bobov Hasidic sect in Brooklyn and around the world, died at Maimonides Medical Center yesterday after a long illness. He was 92.
        A regal-looking man with a great silver beard and horn-rimmed glasses, Rabbi Halberstam was known for his love of dancing with the Torah and for his artful way of sidestepping the internal squabbles that plague other Hasidic sects.
        But his enduring accomplishment, Judaic scholars say, was rebuilding the Bobov sect, a group of Jews based in southeastern Poland that was nearly exterminated by the Nazis during World War II.
        Under about 50 years of his consistently conciliatory leadership, the Bobovers became the leading Hasidic group in Borough Park, which is the most Hasidic section of Brooklyn. It is a neighborhood, city planners say, where the fertility rate is double that of New York as a whole, where families with eight children are not unusual and where Rabbi Halberstam convinced ultra-Orthodox Jews that they could thrive without compromising their way of life.
        At his funeral yesterday, about 6,000 mourners crushed into Bobover Yeshiva Bnei Zion at 15th Avenue and 48th Street, with an additional 30,000 or so standing outside in steaming heat listening to loudspeakers. During the ceremony, many mourners wailed and ripped their clothing, signifying that the rabbi was like a father to them.
        Rabbi Halberstam's two sons spoke at the service. Rabbi Naftali Halberstam, the eldest and the chosen successor in the Bobov sect, escaped the Nazis with his father and came to New York after the war. He spoke of his grandfather, the Bobover grand rabbi, who was killed by the Nazis. The second son, Rabbi Ben Zion Halberstam, said his father had picked up the ashes from the Holocaust and created the community that was now mourning him.
        The Bobover Hasidim are part of an ecstatic religious movement of the late 17th century that broke from traditional rabbinical Judaism for reasons that included objections about materialistic excess. The various sects among the Hasidim share similar beliefs, with their differences owing to geographical origin, dress and style of leadership among grand rabbis.
        The Bobovers, whose name derives from a village in southeastern Poland, tend to look to their grand rabbi more than most other sects for advice on business, marriage and family matters, according to William B. Helmreich, a professor of sociology and Judaic studies at the City University of New York.
        ''Bobover Hasidim is known for not emphasizing disputes,'' said Professor Helmreich, author of ''The World of the Yeshiva'' (Ktav, 2000). ''They are considered very open and tolerant to other groups.''
        Several Judaic experts said that Rabbi Halberstam enjoyed extraordinary success in recruiting Jews in America to the Bobov sect because he was both nonconfrontational and charismatic.
        ''There is a market economy in America in religion, and whoever has the charisma attracts the most people,'' said Samuel Heilman, a professor of Jewish studies and sociology at Queens College. ''Rabbi Halberstam was successful, and the numbers show that.''
        Professor Heilman estimated  there are 20,000 followers of the Bobov sect, although some other Jewish leaders said the sect had more than 100,000 members who are concentrated in New York, Montreal, Toronto, Miami and London.
        Unlike the Satmar and Lubavitch Hasidic sects, which are also prominent in Brooklyn, the Bobovers have flourished with little public infighting. A leadership squabble dating to the death 21 years ago of a grand rabbi continues to divide the Satmar sect, and the Lubavitch movement remains riven by a dispute over whether their late leader, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, was the Messiah.
        Rabbi Halberstam years ago designated his oldest son as his successor, Professor Heilman said. At the funeral yesterday, he said the congregation enthusiastically welcomed the son as their new leader.
        Rabbi Halberstam arrived in New York in the late 1940's, with only his oldest son. The rest of his family had been killed. During this time, according to Professor Heilman, he apparently had a crisis of faith, shaved his beard and lost his desire to be a rabbi. But he soon recovered and, Professor Heilman said, his crisis of faith proved inspirational to many Orthodox Jews reeling in poverty and psychological distress in the wake of the war.
        ''Many of his followers felt that if the rabbi can forgive God for the Holocaust, then we can, too,'' Professor Heilman said.
        Rabbi Halberstam took great pleasure in dancing and singing. His dancing frames a recent documentary movie about the Hasidim called ''A World Apart -- Hasidic Life in America.''
        Rabbi Halberstam is survived by his two sons and five daughters, along with many grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 4, 2000, Friday  The obituary of Grand Rabbi Shlomo Halberstam of the Bobover sect yesterday included an incomplete reference from family friends to the members of his family who survived the Holocaust. Although several relatives were killed, his mother, a brother and six sisters -- not just his eldest son -- survived.
        Correction:  August 7, 2000, Monday  An obituary of Grand Rabbi Shlomo Halberstam of the Bobover sect on Thursday misstated the title of a documentary in which he is shown dancing. It is ''A Life Apart: Hasidism in America,'' not ''A World Apart: Hasidic Life in America.''
      