
        Charles R. Pierce, a former chairman of the Long Island Lighting Company who championed the disputed Shoreham nuclear power plant only to see the project upend his 34-year association with the company, died on Monday.
        He was 78 and lived at Lloyd Harbor, near Huntington, N.Y.
        A precise cause of death has not been determined, according to Peter Connell, the director of the Connell Funeral Home, which is handling the arrangements.
        After serving as a bomber pilot in World War II, Mr. Pierce obtained a law degree from Columbia University and in 1949 joined Lilco as a young recruit in the utility company's legal division. He steadily rose through the ranks and was named president and a director in 1974. Four years later, he was selected chairman.
        Over the years, Mr. Pierce earned a reputation for smoothing the way for power plants that local residents did not want in their backyards. But it was the Shoreham project that rapidly became most associated with Mr. Pierce.
        The project, in Shoreham, 55 miles east of Manhattan on the North Shore, had been undertaken before Mr. Pierce even rose to the level of president. It was originally scheduled to begin operation in 1978, at a cost of $77 million, but delays and numerous cost overruns plagued the project.
        By 1982, with resistance to the project growing, Mr. Pierce took to the airwaves with a series of strongly worded radio commercials in favor of Shoreham. The advertisements lasted almost two years and brought Mr. Pierce widespread public recognition.
        In defending the project and its cost overruns, Mr. Pierce had long attributed Shoreham's problems to regulatory, construction and financial requirements that he considered unnecessarily stringent, as well as to design changes resulting from ''the lessons learned from Three Mile Island.'' That was the site of a nuclear power plant accident near Harrisburg, Pa., in 1979.
        Mr. Pierce's tough stance on the Shoreham controversy, which included a refusal to compromise with critics of the project, began to cause some Lilco directors discomfort. In 1984, Mr. Pierce and other managers most identified with Shoreham resigned under pressure.
        Four years later, the magnitude of the Shoreham debacle became clear. The plant never opened, yet the project lifted electric rates, monopolized the talents of hundreds of engineers for more than a decade and drained more than $5.5 billion from the economy. And in the end, it destroyed Lilco, a company where failure was long considered impossible. In May 1998, the Long Island Lighting Company went out of business after 87 years.
        Mr. Pierce is survived by his wife, Virginia; two daughters, Theresa Kelly and Janet Duncan; and one son, Charles R. Jr.
      