
        Bernhard Wicki, one of the best known film directors of postwar Germany, died on Jan. 5 at his home in Munich. He was 80.
        The cause was heart failure after a long illness, his wife, Elisabeth Endriss, told Reuters.
        Though he began his career as an actor, Mr. Wicki rose to prominence as a director with the critically acclaimed ''Die Bruecke'' (''The Bridge''), his 1959 antiwar movie about a group of high school students conscripted to defend a bridge in the last days of World War II. He also directed, with Ken Annakin and Andrew Marton, ''The Longest Day,'' the 1962 Hollywood war epic with John Wayne, Robert Mitchum, Henry Fonda, Eddie Albert and Richard Burton.
        A Swiss citizen, Mr. Wicki was born in Sankt Poelten in Austria and grew up in Vienna, where he attended the Reinhardt drama school. In 1938 he applied to the Berlin state drama school, led by the German actor Gustav Gruendgens. Soon after his acceptance Mr. Wicki was deported to the Sachsenhausen concentration camp because of his previous membership in a Communist youth organization and his association with the Bauhaus school of architecture. Through the efforts of Gruendgens, he was released 10 months later.
        During the war Mr. Wicki acted in the theaters of Munich, Salzburg, Zurich and Basel. Movie parts followed in the 1950's, most notably his role as the partisan leader in Helmut Kutner's ''Letzte Bruecke'' (''Last Bridge'') in 1953. His success with that film took him to Hollywood, where his roles included a dying writer in Michelangelo Antonioni's ''Notte'' in 1960.
        In 1964 he adapted Friedrich Duerrenmatt's play ''Der Besuch der Alten Dame'' (known in English as ''The Visit'') for the screen. Starring Ingrid Bergman and Anthony Quinn, the film was poorly received in the United States, and after his 1965 work ''Morituri,'' with Marlon Brando, Mr. Wicki returned to Germany. He directed until 1986, when he suffered a cerebral hemorrhage. His last movie, ''Das Spinnennetz'' (''The Spider's Web'') was released in 1989.
      