
        Lt. Gen. David William Traub, a pivotal Army logistics officer for D-Day and in the Korean War, who later oversaw the rapid expansion of the State University of New York system, died on Aug. 16 at a hospital in Lawrence, Mass. A former resident of Loudonville, N.Y., an Albany suburb, he had recently moved to Andover, Mass., to be with family. He was 97.
        General Traub was commissioned into the field artillery in 1928 and retired from the Army 34 years later with three-star rank. He lived to be one of the oldest graduates of the United States Military Academy, where he had returned in 1932, four years after graduation, to teach economics and government history.
        In 1942, with the United States' participation in World War II well under way, the Army named him assistant chief of transportation for planning. As a colonel based in London, he played a central role before, during and after the Normandy invasion, planning the movement of troops, tanks and supplies for the liberation of Europe. He and his staff charted the port, ship, rail and motor operations that made it possible for the generals to deploy their forces.
        After the war, he taught logistics for three years at the Command and General Staff College, then put theory into practice again by directing transportation and logistics in Korea.
        Promoted to brigadier general in 1954 and to major general in 1957, he spent much of the mid-50's as an assistant chief of staff dealing largely with economic aid for South Korea and the civil administration of Okinawa, where the United States had maintained control after World War II.
        In 1957 he was named director of the Army budget in the Army comptroller's office. He was promoted to lieutenant general in 1960, when he became comptroller of the Army, the post from which he retired in 1962. As comptroller, he had a hand in a command-structure overhaul ordered by President John F. Kennedy.
        Within weeks of General Traub's retirement, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York persuaded him to serve as general manager of the newly created $700 million State University Construction Fund, whose purpose was to expand the SUNY system. General Traub directed the construction program into the early 1970's.
        He is survived by a son, David B., of Delmar, N.Y., near Albany; a daughter, Susan A. Russell of Andover, Mass.; and five grandchildren.
      