
        Ole C. Risom, one of the most influential publishers of mass-market books for children, died on Saturday in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in Roslyn Harbor, N.Y.
        The cause was cancer, said his son Nicholas.
        Mr. Risom was vice president and art director of Golden Books Western Press from 1952 to 1972 and then vice president and associate publisher of the juvenile division of Random House from 1972 to 1990. He remained a consultant after he retired.
        He specialized in publishing for preschool children, including alphabet, counting and Mother Goose books that incorporated the work of talented artists but were inexpensively produced.
        Janet Shulman, vice president and editor at large at Random House children's books, compared his standards and vision to that of Ikea in the furniture world.
        In his years at Golden Books he worked on many new formats, including book adaptations of Disney films like ''The Jungle Book'' and ''Cinderella.'' He gave numerous young artists, including Joan Walsh Anglund, their first book commissions. At Random House he developed formats including Picturebacks, the first original trade paperback line; Chunky Books; and Bathtime Books.
        Over the years he was closely associated with Richard Scarry, the author and illustrator whose books have sold more than 100 million copies around the world. They worked together on dozens of books, including ''I Am a Bunny,'' which Mr. Risom wrote and Mr. Scarry illustrated. First published in 1963, it is still in print. Mr. Risom and Walter Retan wrote an illustrated biography, ''The Busy, Busy World of Richard Scarry.''
        Mr. Risom also worked with Dr. Seuss, Jim Henson and Sesame Street books, Stan and Jan Berenstain, Leo Lionni, Laurent de Brunhoff, Charles M. Schulz and Marc Brown.
        Ole Risom was born in Copenhagen and went to Stockholm to work for Bonniers, the Swedish publisher, to learn the publishing business. In 1940 he decided to try to go to the United States, where his older brother, Jens,  was beginning his career as a furniture designer. He had permission to travel through occupied Denmark, where he saw his parents, and then went on to Lisbon to board a freighter. After being detained by the British in Trinidad for several weeks he finally reached New York.
        After Pearl Harbor Mr. Risom joined the United States Army and served in the ski patrol, among other units. When the war ended, he was assigned to the Arts and Monuments section in Munich as a driver. There he met Countess Agnes Grafin von Rechberg, a translator for the section. He stayed on after he was discharged, married her in 1947, and they moved to the United States.
        In addition to his son Nicholas, he is survived by his wife; another son,  Christopher; a daughter, Camilla R. Pile; two brothers, Jens and Niels; and six grandchildren.
      