
        Arthur Newman, a baritone who sang with the New York City Opera in the 1940's and 50's, died on Aug. 6 in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 92.
        Mr. Newman, who was born in St. Louis, began his stage career in the 1930's as a member of the Missouri Theater Company. Although his roles were primarily nonmusical, by the mid-1930's he began studying voice and operatic roles, and in 1939 he joined the St. Louis Grand Opera Association. In four seasons with the company, he sang secondary roles in ''Otello,'' ''Rigoletto,'' ''Traviata,'' Tosca,'' ''Manon'' ''Martha'' and ''Mignon.''
        Mr. Newman also became a featured singer at a St. Louis radio station, KMOX, where for several years he and his wife, Helen Wright, presented a weekly program of vocal duets. In the early 1940's he also sang with the International Opera of Havana and with the St. Louis Chamber Opera. His first performances in New York were in a production of Offenbach's ''Vie Parisienne'' presented by the New Opera Company.
        He joined the New York City Opera in the 1944-45 season and made his debut as Schaunard in ''La Boheme'' in April 1945. He remained on the company's roster until 1959 and is credited with more than 1,300 performances in more than 50 roles. Many were smaller, comic roles like the Sacristan in ''Tosca'' and Antonio in ''Nozze di Figaro.''
        He also sang Masetto in ''Don Giovanni,'' a handful of roles in ''Der Rosenkavalier'' and Escamillo in ''Carmen.''
        He also sang small roles on several recordings for RCA, including Arturo Toscanini's recordings of ''Otello'' and ''La Traviata.'' When he left the City Opera, he took a professorship at Wichita State University in Kansas, where he taught until his retirement in 1973. Among his students were the bass Samuel Ramey.
        He is survived by a daughter, Frances Sandoval of Fountain Hills, Ariz.; two sons, Frank, of Oak Hill, Va., and Greg, of Silver City, N.M.; and a sister, Bertha Siteman of St. Louis.
      