
        Carl Barks, the once anonymous ''duck man'' for Walt Disney whose draftsmanship and writing gained him a cultlike following among artists and fans of Donald Duck comic books and of his very own creation, Scrooge McDuck, died yesterday at his home in Grants Pass, Ore. He was 99.
        Mr. Barks's detailed and witty adventure stories attracted a large following from 1942 to 1966, the years he drew comic books under license to Disney. Because Disney artists did not sign their work, most readers, who could spot his distinctive style at a glance, learned his name only after he retired and received attention from comic-book collectors.
        In more recent years, his oil paintings and lithographs of the extended Donald Duck family sold for hundreds of thousands of dollars.
        John Canemaker, director of the animation program at the New York University Tisch School of the Arts, said yesterday that a 20-by-25-inch Barks oil painting sold in 1996 for $230,000. Another oil sold two years later for $500,000.
        But it was as a comic book writer and illustrator that millions of fans and aficionados came to know Mr. Barks's work.
        ''He made the fantasy real,'' said Mr. Canemaker, whose book ''Paper Dreams'' (Hyperion, 1999) examines the art of Disney storyboard artists. ''There is a great amount of detail in his comic books, and enormous subtlety in the way he would draw the characters in terms of their personalities and inner thoughts.''
        The artist and illustrator Art Spiegelman called Mr. Barks's stories more sophisticated than those of other comic books and said that his Donald was easier to understand than ''that short-tempered little thing in the animated cartoons.''
        ''His were among the first comic books that made me want to be a cartoonist,'' Mr. Spiegelman said. A few years ago, in an introduction to a book of Mr. Barks's gag cartoons, Mr. Spiegelman wrote: ''I've loved Carl Barks's work since those days of long-lost innocence when I assumed that the duck stories were all written and drawn by Walt Disney himself. As far as I was concerned, they were Walt's best work, done on lunch breaks, when he wasn't making animated cartoons or hosting his weekly TV show. Before that, I just believed the ducks were somehow real, and now, as an adult, I've reverted to my first opinion: the ducks ARE real.''
        In 1971 Mr. Barks began reproducing his Walt Disney characters in oil paintings, some of which he sold for as little as $200. Initially, the Disney Studios turned a blind eye to Mr. Barks's work, but when someone not associated with Mr. Barks started mass-producing posters of a painting, Disney sued.
        Eventually, an agreement was reached under which both Disney and Mr. Barks received royalties from his work.
        Mr. Barks's most famous creation, the fabulously wealthy Scrooge McDuck, is a native Scot who lives in a three-cubic-acre money bin and wears a red broadcloth coat that he bought in a rummage sale in 1924. Scrooge, a forerunner, however unintended, of today's mergers-and-aquisitions executives, first appeared in 1947, in a story called ''Christmas on Bear Mountain.''
        Other characters created by Mr. Barks are the Beagle Boys, masked burglars scheming after Scrooge's loot; Gladstone Gander, Donald's lucky cousin; the inventor Gyro Gearloose; and Gyro's helper, a walking light bulb. Mr. Barks depicted Himalayan panoramas, downtown Atlantis or a Klondike saloon brawl in the confines of single cartoon panels.
        Edward Summers, a writer and film producer who is author of ''Uncle Scrooge McDuck, His Life and Times'' (Celestial Arts, 1980), said Mr. Barks had a wandering and inventive imagination that inspired others, including George Lucas and Stephen Spielberg.
        ''The rolling rock sequence at the beginning of 'Raiders of the Lost Ark' was consciously borrowed from one of the Uncle Scrooge stories, 'The Seven Cities of Cibola,' '' Mr. Summers said.
        In another comic book in the late 1940's Mr. Barks ''invented a way to raise sunken ships,'' Mr. Summer said.
        ''Donald wants to raise the ship to get treasure rights, but there's no way to do that without breaking up the old boards,'' he said. ''So he shoves a long pipe down to the ship and pumps in Ping-Pong balls. The ship pops to the surface with a huge octopus hanging onto it.''
        Years later, he said, a salvage company used the method successfully.
        Mr. Barks was born on March 27, 1901, to a homesteading family in Oregon. He left school at 15 and worked as a rancher, logger, railroad repairman and printer before his freelance cartooning led to a job with a humor magazine. He joined the Walt Disney Studio in 1935, the year after Donald's first screen appearance, and worked on 36 Donald Duck movie cartoons, often as the sole writer and story artist. Though he did not create Donald Duck, he was largely responsible for Donald's modern look, which first appeared in an animated cartoon he drew, ''Modern Inventions.'' He also worked on story development for ''Snow White,'' ''Bambi'' and ''Fantasia.''
        His wife of 40 years, Margaret Barks, died in 1993. He is survived by  a daughter, Dorothy Gibson of Bremerton, Wash.; two grandchildren;  four great-grandchildren; and three great-great-grandchildren.
        Starting in 1994 Mr. Barks began creating new Scrooge and Donald Duck comic-book stories, this time with help from artists and writers who closely followed his style. In Europe, his comics, both new and reprints, sell more copies than in the United States and his fan clubs, especially in Scandinavia, fill the Internet with treatises on Scrooge history. In 1994 Mr. Barks toured 11 European countries on a Disney-sponsored trip occasioned by Donald's 60th birthday, and in April 1997, he was honored at Walt Disney World on his 96th birthday and Scrooge's 50th.
        Correction:  September 4, 2000, Monday  An obituary on Aug. 26 about Carl Barks, the cartoonist who created Scrooge McDuck, misstated the surname of the author of a book about him, and a cartoon panel with the obituary carried an erroneous credit. The author is Edward Summer, not Summers. The cartoon was from his book ''Uncle Scrooge McDuck, His Life and Times (Celestial Arts, 1980), not from Walt Disney Productions.
      