
        Jorge Oscar de Mello Flores, a businessman who worked behind the scenes to influence important political events in Brazil, died on Monday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 88.
        Mr. Flores was known for getting business interests to support the military coup that deposed President Joao Goulart in 1964. He later formed close ties with Humberto Castelo Branco, the army general who took control of Brazil's central government.
        Through a lobby called the Brazilian Institute of Democratic Action, which he formed, Mr. Flores continued after the coup to organize the support of private companies and wealthy individuals for authoritarian rule. The institute is believed to have collected millions of dollars against Communism.
        ''He was unapologetic in his belief that Communism was a threat to the economic well-being of Brazil,'' said Maria Celina D'Araujo, a political scientist at the Fundacao Getulio Vargas, an economics institute in Rio de Janeiro. ''He took a certain pride in being one of the coup's top conspirators.''
        Mr. Flores stayed close to General Castelo Branco but fell out with his successor, Gen. Artur da Costa e Silva, in the middle to late 60's. But though Mr. Flores's political influence waned, his economic power did not.
        In 1969 he became president of Chase Manhattan's banking operations in Brazil, a position he held until 1992, six years after civilian rule was re-established. He then became president of the Fundacao Getulio Vargas.
        Wielding political influence came naturally to Mr. Flores. He was born into an upper-class family in Rio, then Brazil's capital, in 1912. Part of his family descended from Portuguese nobility who arrived in Brazil in 1808.
        As a civil servant in Rio in the 1930's, Mr. Flores wove a formidable network of connections, which he later used as a director of the Sul America insurance group. He eventually invested in industrial manufacturing and financial services businesses.
        In 1959 he founded Consultec, an economic consulting company, together with Roberto Campos, a leading diplomat and right-wing politician. Mario Henrique Simonsen, perhaps Brazil's most influential economist, became a partner of Consultec at Mr. Flores's urging.
        In some ways Mr. Flores was a precursor to the bankers and economists who today shuttle between high-level jobs in Brazil's private and public sectors, said Guilherme Fiuza, an editor of No., an online political and cultural newspaper in Rio.
        He was one of the eminences grises who are central to deciphering the workings of Brazilian politics.
        For example in the 1970's Mr. Flores, having strengthened his ties with the military government, smoothed Mr. Simonsen's path to the Finance Ministry. He described a 1974 discussion with Gen. Golbery do Couto e Silva, chief political strategist to President Ernesto Geisel: ''We discussed the matter and we both decided it would be a great solution for the country,'' Mr. Flores said of Mr. Simonsen's appointment.
        Mr. Flores is survived by his wife, Wanda Dias Flores, a daughter and a grandson.
      