
        Estrongo Nachama, the chief cantor of the Berlin Jewish community and the man who did as much as anyone to revive Jewish life in the city after Hitler destroyed it, died on Thursday. He was 81.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, his family said.
        Vigorous to the last, eyes always glimmering, his voice scarcely affected by age, Mr. Nachama exuded the passion for life of a man who had seen the worst horrors and come through.
        He was an Auschwitz survivor, spared because his voice pleased the SS guards, who particularly enjoyed his rendering of ''O Sole Mio.''
        His family, all sent to Auschwitz after the Nazis took control of northern Greece, where Mr. Nachama was born, was less fortunate. His parents, a sister and many relatives were all killed by the Nazis at the camp.
        While forever marked by this loss, Mr. Nachama was an inveterate optimist of seemingly boundless energy.
        On his 80th birthday, he declared, ''I will sing for as long as God allows me'' -- and he did, coaching bar mitzvah students until the day before his death.
        ''He was one of the absolutely critical people in terms of the rebuilding of the Jewish community in Berlin,'' said Tom Freudenheim, the deputy director of the city's Jewish museum. ''Before the wall fell, he would cross to the East with a special pass to conduct services there. In his day, his voice was famous well beyond this city.''
        In 1947, when Mr. Nachama became cantor, the Jews of Berlin had almost all departed or died. Today, with the Jewish population swollen by an influx of Jews from Russia and other Central and Eastern European countries, about 12,000 people are registered members of the Jewish community and several thousand more are known to live here.
        Estrongo Nachama was born in Salonika, Greece, the son of a prosperous grain merchant. He was to have taken over the family business, but the Nazis sent his entire family to Auschwitz in 1943.
        A splendid tenor, Mr. Nachama earned the nickname ''the singer of Auschwitz.'' His voice saved his life. When the camp was closed in 1945, Mr. Nachama was pressed into a ''death march'' back to Germany. Sick with typhoid, he was ultimately freed by Soviet troops near Berlin in 1945.
        On his recovery, he planned to take a train back to Greece. But he grew close to a Christian family that had taken him in and quickly became active in what was left of the Jewish community. In the end, he never left.
        His voice became well known in the city and was broadcast on Friday nights by the radio service in the American sector of Berlin. He worked tirelessly for an improved understanding between Jews and Christians and became one of the first prominent German Jews to attend church congresses.
        When, last September, Prime Minister Ehud Barak of Israel became the first foreign leader to visit Germany after the government moved back to Berlin, Mr. Nachama was at his side during a service at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp near the capital. His voice rising over the bleak scene of horror was one of tremulous beauty.
        Mr. Nachama is survived by his wife, Lily, a son, Andreas, who is the leader of the city's Jewish community, and two grandchildren.
      