
        Dr. Serge Lebovici, a major figure in French psychoanalysis known for his work with infants, children and adolescents, died on Aug. 12 in the south of France, where he had gone for a professional project. He was 85 and lived in Paris.
        Dr. Lebovici wrote more than 500 scholarly papers and books, many dealing with the development of babies and with the bond between mother and child. For some 30 years he examined that bond in the light of the work of the psychologist John Bowlby, who focused largely on attachment theory and the damage that ensues when children are separated from their mothers.
        He also explored the biological basis for that bond, the fantasies of the mother and the autoerotic activity of the child.
        From 1973 to 1977, Dr. Lebovici was president of the London-based International Psychoanalytical Association, which was founded by Sigmund Freud in 1910. He was the first French analyst elected to the post.
        He practiced in the mainstream of Freudian analysis and promoted it throughout his career. He also defended its classical approach against unorthodox practitioners and introduced his French colleagues to the works of Anna Freud and Melanie Klein, among others.
        Two books that he edited with colleagues remain in print in this country, ''Psychoanalysis in France'' (International Universities Press, 1980) and ''International Annals of Adolescent Psychiatry'' (University of Chicago Press, 1988).
        Serge Lebovici was born in Paris. His medical studies at the University of Paris were interrupted by World War II, and he spent two years as a prisoner of war. After the war he trained as a pediatrician but soon turned to child psychiatry.
        He joined the child psychiatry clinic of the University of Paris in 1946 and began his psychoanalytic training with Sacha Nacht, head of the Paris Psychoanalytic Society. In the years that followed he played a major role in the development of child psychiatry and influenced generations of its practitioners.
        In 1977, Dr. Lebovici became a professor of psychiatry at the University of Paris-Nord, and he remained on the faculty until his death.
        Dr. Lebovici's survivors include his wife of 58 years, Dr. Ruth Roos Lebovici, a psychoanalyst; two daughters, Marianne and Elisabeth; and two grandsons.
      