
        William S. Cashel Jr., the former chairman of Campbell Soup and the chief financial officer of AT&T during its deregulation, died on Tuesday at his home in Amelia Island, Fla. He was 80.
        The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, his wife, Marie, said.
        Mr. Cashel spent most of his career with American Telephone and Telegraph, rising to the position of vice chairman and chief financial officer in 1977. The government ordered the reorganization of the company in 1982, which required it to divest itself of 22 local telephone companies, while retaining its long-distance service; the Western Electric Company, its manufacturing arm; and Bell Laboratories, its research operation. Mr. Cashel led a group of executives from all parts of the company charged with devising an equitable breakup that would meet the government mandate and assure the financial viability of all of the new companies.
        The team came up with a plan for dividing more than $80 billion in assets, everything from physical equipment like the cables that brought service to businesses and homes to accounts receivable. When Mr. Cashel left AT&T in 1983, the final plan had been submitted to the company chairman, Charles L. Brown. The breakup was completed in 1984.
        Mr. Cashel was named chairman of Campbell Soup in 1984; he had been on the company's board since 1976. He served as chairman for four years, and retired in 1990.
        Mr. Cashel graduated from Dartmouth College in 1941 with a bachelor's degree. During World War II, he served with the Marines.
        In 1946, he joined the Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, one of the local telephone companies within AT&T, as an engineer. During the next 31 years, Mr. Cashel held several positions with AT&T units, including general manager at the Diamond State Telephone Company in Wilmington, Del., and president of the Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia from 1970 to 1977, before he became chief financial officer of the parent company.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three sons, William III, of Pasadena, Calif.; Robert, of Summit, N.J.; and Peter, of Harrodsburg, Ky.; a daughter, Christine, of Stillwater, Okla.; and seven grandchildren.
      