
        Edward Craven Walker, Royal Air Force squadron leader, champion of what the British call the naturist way of life and designer of the Lava lamp, a quintessential accessory of the 1960's and 1970's, died on Aug. 15 at his home in Ringwood, England. He was 82.
        Mr. Walker was a man of many grooves who made his first fortune on the nudist movie ''Traveling Light'' (1960), filmed off Corsica and featuring a nude woman performing underwater ballet to Rimsky-Korsakov's ''Song of India.'' (Another nudist film, ''Eves on Skis'' in 1958, was less of a hit.) Profits from his films went toward promoting naturism and founding the Bournemouth and District Outdoor Club, a nudist club in Dorset, England.
        Wider acclaim followed with his serendipitous transformation of an unusual egg timer that he saw at a pub into an icon of the 1970's. The mesmerizing multicolored ooze, sloshing up and down in slow motion inside a hurricane lamp with a space-age glow, perfectly embodied the spirit of the psychedelic age.
        By the mid-70's the Astro Lamp, as Mr. Walker named it, was selling around the world at the rate of seven million a year. Murray Moss, an entrepreneur and design critic in New York, said of the must-have for dormitory students: ''It was devoid of function but rich in emotional fulfillment. It could momentarily free your mind like a warm bath.''
        The lamp, introduced in 1963, lost its cachet in the late 70's as the culture moved on to black-matte minimalism, but it has recently made a comeback.
        Mr. Walker was born on July 4, 1918, in Singapore, where his father was a shipping agent. At the age of 3 he was sent to England, where he attended Charterhouse, a boarding school. In the 1930's he went to work for British-American Tobacco. During World War II he served in the Royal Air Force, flying photographic reconnaissance missions. According to recent interviews in the British press, he maintained the trim fighting figure and brisk demeanor of an R.A.F. officer throughout his life.
        After the war, while living in a trailer behind a pub, he established a successful travel agency and home-exchange program in London. It was called En Famille, and Mr. Walker hoped it would foster better relations between people from different lands.
        His lifelong interest in nudism was inspired by a trip to the Ile du Levant off the southern coast of France, where, under the pseudonym Michael Keatering, he made one of his three films promoting the cause. Eventually he founded the nudist club at Bournemouth and helped to establish other nudist colonies throughout England.
        Mr. Walker, who was married four times and had four children, was never joined by family members in his naturist enthusiasms. He is survived by his fourth wife, Sue Craven Walker of Ringwood; two daughters, Gail Kincaid of Wales and Debora Storch of Boston; and two sons, Antony, of Brussels, and Christopher, of Ringwood.
        It was a casual visit to the Queen's Head pub in the New Forest, southwest of London, that sent Mr. Walker in a new direction. On the bar he noticed a glass cocktail shaker filled with oil globules; when heated, they rose through a column of water in just the time it took to hard-boil an egg. He bought the patent from the inventor's widow. Over the next 10 years, Mr. Walker worked in his backyard, making improvements on the lamp. His recipe for a mix of oil, wax and water that does not emulsify in shipping is still closely held by Mathmos, the company that now makes the lamp in England.
        Mr. Walker's Astro Lamp quickly caught on and was sold through leading British stores like Selfridge's, Fortnum & Mason and Habitat. (A buyer from Harrods said it was disgusting and refused to carry it.)
        Mr. Walker's slogan at the time was, ''If you buy my lamp, you won't need drugs,'' and the lamp soon became a fixture on the psychedelic scene. It was featured on style-minded television shows like ''The Avengers'' and ''The Prisoner.'' Mr. Walker himself consulted on a James Bond film that showed gigantic Lava lamps as the four posters of a bed.
        As the fad passed, Mr. Walker continued making other light fixtures, none as popular as his Astro Lamp. (The Lava brand name was coined in the United States and is now a trademark of Haggerty Enterprises of Chicago.) He also continued to operate the Bournemouth club, causing a stir in the late 1970's when he tried to bar overweight customers -- he called them ''fat fogies'' -- from coming to his camp, a place, in his mind, of health and beauty.
        In 1989, Mr. Walker was approached by a young entrepreneur who wanted to revive interest in his lamp, which never went out of production. It was reintroduced in England and is selling briskly again.
        In a 1997 interview with The Daily Telegraph, Mr. Walker listed two reasons for his lamp's enduring appeal: ''It's like the cycle of life. It grows, breaks up, falls down and then starts all over again. And besides, the shapes are sexy.''
      