
        Douglas Allen Woody, a former bassist for the Allman Brothers Band and a spin-off group, Gov't Mule, died on Saturday at the Marriott Courtyard motel in Queens. He was 44.
        The cause was unknown, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the New York City medical examiner's office. An autopsy performed yesterday was inconclusive, she said.
        Allen Woody, as he was known, was born in Nashville, where his father, a truck driver, weaned him on the blues, country and rock oldies. Inspired by watching Paul McCartney play with the Beatles, he began learning the bass at age 14. Not long afterward he first heard the Allman Brothers Band on the radio and became interested in exploratory Southern rock.
        Mr. Woody majored in music at Middle Tennessee State University  and worked selling instruments at Gruhn Guitars in Nashville, where he met many of the city's top musicians. In the mid-80's, he joined the Artimus Pyle Band, led by the former drummer for Lynyrd Skynyrd. It was Mr. Pyle who introduced Mr. Woody to Butch Trucks of the Allman Brothers Band, who suggested that Mr. Woody audition as bassist.
        Mr. Woody joined the Allman Brothers Band when the group re-formed after a seven-year hiatus in 1989. Previously the band had lost three members to early deaths, two of them bassists and the other its cofounder, Duane Allman, who was killed in a 1971 motorcycle accident.
        The revised line-up, with Mr. Woody on bass and another newcomer, Warren Haynes, on guitar, helped bring the band new commercial and critical success. In 1994, while still touring with the Allmans, Mr. Woody and Mr. Haynes formed a side trio with a drummer, Matt Abts, called Gov't Mule. They recorded for Capricorn, a label that had a longstanding feud with the Allman Brothers over record royalties.
        Three years later, Mr. Woody and Mr. Haynes left the Allman Brothers to devote themselves to their trio. Gov't Mule added a harder edge to its jams and explored a wide terrain that ranged from free jazz to the alternative rock of Radiohead.
        An avid biker with tattoos and a handlebar mustache, Mr. Woody was distinguished by his ability to move from slow, blues-drenched playing to fast, pronounced runs. He was also known for playing customized instruments like a double-necked combination of a guitar and a mandolin.
        Gov't Mule recorded five albums for Capricorn and was set to begin a tour on Sept. 2.
        Mr. Woody is survived by his wife, Jenny, and a daughter, Savannah, both of Nashville.
      