
        Patrick T. McGahn Jr., a colorful casino lawyer and South Jersey Democratic Party leader who helped bring gambling to Atlantic City, died Sunday in Somers Point, N.J. He was 72.
        He had suffered a stroke on Thursday, his family said.
        Until the 1979 statewide referendum that legalized gambling in New Jersey, Mr. McGahn was famous mainly for his outsize personality and for his devotion to the United States Marine Corps. As a young Marine second lieutenant, he was awarded a Navy Cross and other decorations in Korea.
        Mr. McGahn, Paddy to his friends, found his metier as a leader of the campaign to bring casinos to the East Coast. He was a member of the Committee to Rebuild Atlantic City, which was created to revive the crumbling old resort town, and he went on to be local counsel for the big casinos that moved east from Nevada once the gambling referendum passed.
        Mr. McGahn's older brother, Joseph, a physician, was elected to the State Senate in 1979, the same year the casino referendum passed. A controversy involving the brothers exemplified the way Mr. McGahn could roil the political waters.
        Senator McGahn, who died this year, held up a judicial appointment by Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, a Democrat. The nominee, Gerald Weinstein, accused Patrick McGahn of having his brother bottle up the nomination and of demanding something in return for releasing it. An state investigation cleared Patrick McGahn of charges of influence peddling but the investigating agency was enmeshed in accusations that it was being used for political purposes.
        ''Sometimes Paddy's style of politics was a little in-your-face, and I didn't agree with all of his views,'' said State Senator William L. Gormley of Atlantic County, a Republican, ''but he was a wonderful friend. He had the kind of personality that filled the room.''
        Mr. Gormley was speaking on the floor of the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia, where he was wearing the tie that Mr. McGahn had brought him from a post-war trip to Korea. It was emblazoned with elephants.
        Mr. McGahn, the son of an Atlantic City saloon keeper, was born in 1928 and attended local parochial schools before graduating from Mount St. Mary's College in Emmitsburg, Md.,  with a bachelor's degree.
        He is survived by his wife, Mercedes Walsh McGahn, four children, six grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      