
        Shankar Dayal Sharma, the emotional but decisive president of India in the turbulent years from 1992 to 1997, died on Dec. 26 in a hospital in New Delhi. He was 81 and lived in New Delhi.
        A longtime member of the Congress Party, he was its president for a time. Dr. Sharma, whose doctorate was in law from Cambridge, was elected, with support from Congress and leftist groups, ninth president of India. That role is is largely ceremonial, though its powers include discretion in choosing a prime minister if no party has a parliamentary majority.
        In 1996, when that situation arose, Dr. Sharma was at the center of a maelstrom over forming government. He was faced with what constitutional experts said then was one of the most challenging moments in the history of independent India.
        He went on to win praise for giving the prime ministership to Atal Bihari Vajpayee, president of the main Hindu nationalist party, who had not been prime minister but who portrayed himself as a conciliator.
        Mr. Vajpayee failed to win a vote of confidence and stepped down after 13 days in office. But he rebounded and is the current prime minister.
        In 1996, Dr. Sharma voiced a hopeful view of the future of Indian-Chinese relations.
        In a speech at a banquet attended by President Jiang Zemin of China, he spoke of the countries as ''the two great nations of broad-mindedness and wisdom'' that had pioneered human civilization, adding, ''We will surely bring a cooperative and constructive partnership into the 21st century.''
        In his first year as president, Dr. Sharma took control of Uttar Pradesh in northeastern India and dismissed the state legislature.
        He acted after Hindu militants from around India had gone to the state and destroyed a 16th-century mosque in Ayodhya, which they said had been built on the site where the Hindu god Ram was born. More than 1,000 people, most of them Muslims, died in the ensuing nationwide violence between Hindus and Muslims.
        Dr. Sharma was sometimes highly emotional. In 1990, while he was vice president and was presiding over the upper house of Parliament at time of turmoil, he broke into tears and left the hall, saying that he could not be a party to ''the murder of democracy.''
        He was born in the state of Bhopal in central India. After receiving master's degrees from Lucknow University, he he joined the movement for independence from British rule and was imprisoned for a time before India became independent in 1947.
        From 1974 to 1977, Dr. Sharma was communications minister, and later he became governor of Andra Pradesh and Punjab. He was elected vice president and held the post from 1987 to 1992.
        Surviving are his wife, Vimla, two sons and a daughter.
      