
        Gilbert de Botton, a Swiss banker who helped change the way the wealthy manage their money and became a significant figure in the London worlds of modern art and old-book collecting, died Saturday at his house in the South of France. He was 65.
        In 1983, after moving from Zurich to London, Mr. de Botton created a money management firm called Global Asset Management in partnership with Nathaniel Charles Jacob Rothschild of the English branch of the famous banking family.
        The firm pioneered what was then a revolutionary technique for managing the fortunes of the rich. Previously the wealthy would entrust their money to a bank or financial institution, which then gave the funds to their own in-house managers to invest.
        But Mr. de Botton reasoned that no single bank could hope to employ all the most talented money managers in the world. So he adopted a different technique, collecting funds from rich individuals, identifying the finest managers and then creating special funds with his clients' money for them to manage.
        Often called the multimanager approach, the technique is widely used today. ''Gilbert de Botton pioneered it to give his clients superior investment performance by using only the most talented managers,'' Lord Rothschild said in a telephone interview from London.
        Today Global Asset Management, which started with initial capital of $1 million, has about $14 billion of money under management. In 1999, Mr. de Botton sold the firm to UBS, the big Swiss bank, for about $600 million.
        Born on Feb. 16, 1935, into an Alexandrine Jewish family, Mr. de Botton began his education at Victoria College in Alexandria, Egypt. But in 1952. the increasing difficulties that Egyptian Jews were facing forced the family to leave the country. Mr. de Botton continued his education at Hebrew University in Jerusalem and at Columbia University in New York.
        In 1960, he went to work for Ufitech S.A. Union Financiere, a Zurich-based finance house owned by Abdullah Zilhka, one of three brothers originally from Baghdad who all became prominent businessmen in Europe and the United States.
        In 1968 the English and French branches of the Rothschild family picked him as founding managing director of Rothschild Bank A.G., the joint bank they had decided to establish in Zurich and which by 1981 had over $2 billion under management.
        Bank Rothschild made headlines in 1978 when Algeria asked it to resign from a syndicate of European and Arab banks organizing a $33 million loan for the Algerian government because of its Jewish connections.
        Mr. de Botton was a formidable linguist, fluent in Arabic as well as all the major European languages. In 1962 he married the former Jacqueline Burgauer. They had a son, Alain, now a well-known London-based writer, and a daughter, Miel. The marriage ended in 1988. Two years later, he married Janet Green, eldest daughter of Baron Wolfson, a prominent British industrialist.
        Mr. de Botton and his second wife were avid collectors of modern art and they both served as trustees of the Tate Gallery in London. Mr. de Botton had a particularly important collection of works by the British artist, Francis Bacon, who also painted his portrait.
        In addition, he collected rare books and at the end of his life was engaged in recreating the private library of the French philosopher Montaigne, tracking down and acquiring the books that were dispersed after his death in 1592.
      