
        Ivan D. Combe, who was responsible for the fame of a medicine chest of brand-name products including Clearasil and Just for Men hair coloring, died on Tuesday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 88.
        Mr. Combe, who lived in Greenwich, was the chairman and chief executive of Combe Inc., a privately held company he founded in 1948.
        His first marketing coup was Clearasil, an over-the-counter acne remedy that he and a chemist developed in the early 1950's after market research with teenagers.
        After it became one of the first advertisers on Dick Clark's television show ''American Bandstand,'' the product was a runaway success.
        Mr. Combe sold Clearasil to Vick Chemical in 1960, and shortly afterward he acquired a little-known company called Grecian Formula 16, a gradual hair-coloring product for men. Through advertising and marketing, he turned it into an almost iconic brand.
        Later in the 1960's, he acquired Lanacane, an itch-relieving cream, and through energetic advertising he expanded the market for such products. During the next 30 years, he created or built market niches for products like Odor-Eaters foot care products, Vagisil feminine care products and Just for Men instant hair coloring.
        ''He was an idea guy -- he just came up with these product categories and made the products a household word,'' said E. Edward Kavanaugh, president of the Cosmetic, Toiletry and Fragrance Association.
        Ivan DeBlois Combe was born in Fremont, Iowa, on April 21, 1911. He earned a bachelor's degree from Northwestern University and attended Northwestern Law School. He then became a salesman for Hydrox Ice Cream and Wilbur Shoe Polish before moving to New York to work for the Young & Rubicam advertising agency.
        Mr. Combe later joined Pharmacraft, a drug manufacturer, but in 1949, at 38 years old, he left his position as vice president for marketing to create his own company.
        Mr. Combe served as chairman of the Proprietary Association, which was later known as the Nonprescription Drug Manufacturers Association and subsequently the Consumer Healthcare Products Association. He was also chairman of the World Federation of Proprietary Medicine Manufacturers, now called the World Self-Medication Industry.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Elizabeth; two daughters, Diana Bickford, of Dorset, Vt., and Juliette Larson, of Douglaston, Queens; his son, Christopher Combe, of Greenwich; and seven grandchildren.
      