
        Abdul Haris Nasution, a soldier and politician who fought for Indonesia's independence from the Netherlands and may have missed a chance to lead his nation, died today in a Jakarta hospital. He was 81 and had been in a coma since a recent stroke.
        General Nasution (pronounced na-SU-tyun) was a former army chief and cabinet minister who typified the Indonesian military's history of deep involvement in politics and internal security as well as defense, experts on Indonesian history said today.
        Over the years, General Nasution held positions roughly analogous to the United States secretary of defense, director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff -- sometimes simultaneously.
        What was perhaps the pivotal moment of General Nasution's life came on the night of Sept. 30, 1965, when six generals were slain as renegade troops tried to overthrow President Sukarno. With bullets flying around him, General Nasution fled his Jakarta house in his pajamas, leaping over a wall into the Iraqi ambassador's residence next door. His 6-year-old daughter and an aide were shot to death, however.
        That night started a blood-letting that went on for months as hundreds of thousands of Communists, suspected Communists and trade unionists were killed in reprisals.
        General Nasution might have been able to seize power then by playing on sympathy, his fierce anti-Communism and the prestige he enjoyed for having been a guerrilla leader against the Dutch after World War II, Ed Masters, a former United States ambassador to Indonesia, said today.
        ''But he didn't,'' Mr. Masters said.
        Instead, General Suharto moved to take over, accusing President Sukarno of leftist sympathies. General Suharto imposed an iron rule that lasted three decades. He brought economic development and political stability to Indonesia, making the world's fourth most populous country more self-sufficient and increasing literacy.
        The price was suppression of personal freedom and dissent and, many critics charged, corruption that enriched the leader and his relatives while millions of people were still trapped in poverty.
        ''Indonesian history could have been different if General Nasution had become president,'' said Mr. Masters, the No. 3 person in the American Embassy in Indonesia from 1964 to 1968 and ambassador from 1978 to 1982.
        Perhaps, Mr. Masters said, authoritarian rule was necessary for a while longer in a country that had known only that for more than 300 years under the Dutch and Japanese. But Mr. Masters, now president of the United States Indonesia Society, said he believed that General Nasution would have relaxed the government's hold far sooner than General Suharto.
        Recalling a conversation with General Nasution three years ago, Mr. Masters said, ''He bemoaned the fact that Indonesia had such rigid controls.'' General Nasution, he said, was basically ''an honest man, an honorable man,'' one with no taste or talent for intrigue.
        As his power was waning in 1966, President Sukarno removed General Nasution as defense minister, a post he had held for seven years.
        Once General Suharto took over, General Nasution criticized him on more than one occasion. After the Iranian revolution of 1979, he said a similar upheaval could occur in Indonesia if the people no longer identified with their government.
        Even out of official power, General Nasution retained enough prestige to say things that might have been fatal for a lesser figure. But his complaints had little effect.
        Abdul Nasution was born on Sumatra of middle-class parents and graduated from the Royal Dutch Military Academy before World War II. He was commissioned in the Royal Netherlands Indies Army in 1941 and was captured by the Japanese the next year. He later worked as a civil administrator for the Japanese and joined a Japanese military unit, at least partly in hope of ending Dutch colonial rule.
        When Indonesia proclaimed its independence after Japan was defeated, he rose rapidly in the new Indonesian Army, becoming a major general at 28. He led guerrilla campaigns against the Dutch and, after independence was secured, helped to put down rebellions against the new central government.
        General Nasution is survived by his wife and daughter.
        James Clad, a Georgetown University professor of Southeast Asian studies, said today that General Nasution dedicated himself to ''a struggle for a better life'' for Indonesians, and that he was fundamentally ''a voice of moderation.''
        Sidney Jones, the Asian director of Human Rights Watch, said that, courage and good intentions notwithstanding, General Nasution helped to cement the internal political role of the military that has haunted Indonesia.
        Asked how he thought the general would be remembered, Mr. Masters mentioned again the night of the 1965 coup. ''The time came, and it passed him by,'' he said. ''He was an Indonesian Hamlet.''
      