
        George Musso, a Hall of Fame lineman and captain of the Chicago Bears when they ruled professional football before and during World War II, died Tuesday in Edwardsville, Ill. He was 90.
        Musso, called Moose, played for the Bears from 1933 to 1944, when they were known as the Monsters of the Midway. In that span, their record was 104-26-6 and they won four National Football League championships and seven Western Division titles. One championship came in 1940 in a 73-0 rout of the Washington Redskins.
        On a team with Red Grange (for Musso's first two years), Bronko Nagurski, Sid Luckman and Bulldog Turner, Musso was often overshadowed. He started out as a $90-a-game offensive tackle. In his fifth season, he was switched to offensive guard, and he became the first player to be voted All-Pro at two positions. His coach, George Halas, called him ''the greatest guard in professional football ranks.''
        Musso was an intimidating middle guard on defense, an excellent blocker on pass plays and a quick pulling guard on running plays. He had a ready explanation for that quickness.
        ''I am blocking for Nagurski, and he waits for no one,'' he said. ''If you don't open the hole, he'll hit you in the back, and the next time you will either open it or get out of the way quick.''
        For Musso's last nine seasons, he was the Bears' captain.
        ''The players wouldn't have anyone else,'' Grange once said. ''Halas let him give the pep talk to the players before the big games. He had great spirit, and his talks would really get the guys fired up.''
        Becoming captain was a monumental achievement for someone who almost did not make the team. In those days, there was little scouting of college players. Halas saw Musso's picture in a basketball uniform, grimaced at the mustache and said: ''This guy will never make it. He looks like a walrus.''
        He finally gave Musso a tryout and offered him $90 a game if he made the team. And, Musso once said, an additional $5, of which $3 was for the train ride to training camp and $2 for whatever Musso wanted to do with it.
        Musso was big for his era -- 6 feet 2 inches and 258 pounds (he would grow to 270). But he was raw, and he barely survived his rookie season.
        After the first game, Halas wanted to send him to a Cincinnati farm team. Musso resisted and told Halas he wanted an outright release instead. He also reminded Halas that Curly Lambeau, the Green Bay Packers' coach, had promised him a job if the Bears cut him.
        Halas then offered to keep Musso on the team at $45 a game until he proved himself. Musso could have played for the Giants for $75 a game, but he really wanted to play in Chicago; he had already taken an apartment there with Nagurski and a friend. So he stayed with the Bears, and Halas worked with him. As did Grange, despite initial doubts.
        ''Red came to me one day and told me I could make the club if I just played up to my capabilities,'' Musso recalled. ''It was a shot in the arm. The next Sunday, at Brooklyn, I played about a half and was gaining confidence as I went along.''
        The next week, with the Bears trailing the Chicago Cardinals by 9-7, Musso blocked a punt for a safety that tied the game. The Bears won, 12-9, and Musso went back to full salary of $90 a game. Two weeks later, he was a starter; and soon, he was a star.
        As Ray Flaherty, the Redskins' coach, said, ''His size and speed made him a difficult target, particularly on defense.''
        Musso was born April 8, 1910, in Collinsville, Ill. His father was a coal miner and wanted his son to join him after he finished grade school. Friends persuaded the father to let him go to high school, and the same friends later persuaded the father to let him go to college. He earned a degree from James Millikin University in Decatur, Ill., and 12 letters in football, baseball and basketball.
        After his pro career, he went into the restaurant business in Edwardsville. In 1958, he was elected sheriff of Madison County in Illinois.
        He is survived by three daughters, JoAnn Knecht-Robinson of Napa, Calif.; Toni Baughman of Alexandria, Va.; and Linda Ruddy of Cape Girardeau, Mo.; a brother, Albert, of Sioux Falls, S.D.; two sisters, Evelyn Moore and Dora Major, both of Collinsville, 12 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren.
        Musso said he was probably the only player who lined up against two future presidents. In 1929, he played against Eureka College's 175-pound guard, Ronald Reagan. In the 1935 College All-Star Game, he opposed the Michigan center, Gerald Ford.
        In 1982, Musso was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame with Sam Huff, Merlin Olsen and Doug Atkins. ''After all those years,'' Musso said, ''I thought they had forgotten about me.''
      