
        Dr. C. Philip Wilson, an expert in the treatment of eating disorders and other severe psychosomatic problems, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Manhattan. He was 79.
        The cause was heart disease, said his son Scott, a psychiatrist.
        While a resident in psychiatry at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in New York, Dr. Wilson developed techniques for treating gastrointestinal problems and anorexia nervosa, which was then rarely diagnosed. Much of his treatment for anorexia and bulimia focused on the earliest phases of childhood development and mother-infant interaction.
        ''In the argument of nature versus nurture,'' Scott Wilson said, ''my father was very much a proponent of the nurture side and emphasized that childhood developmental influences were crucial in causing anorexia nervosa and other psychosomatic eating disorders.''
        Dr. Wilson wrote extensively for professional journals and reference books. He was also an editor or co-editor of five books on eating disorders. The best-known, ''The Fear of Being Fat,'' is widely used in treating anorexia today.
        In 1991, he received the Sigmund Freud Award of the American Society of Psychoanalytic Physicians for distinguished service in psychiatry and psychoanalysis.
        Charles Philip Wilson was born in  Scarsdale, N.Y., graduated from Yale and from the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, and began his medical career in the Navy in World War II. While serving on a transport ship in the Pacific, he became interested in the body's sensitivity to emotional changes, having noticed that many enlisted men reported gastrointestinal problems upon leaving home port.
        As a civilian he continued to explore the effects of emotional stress on physical health, an interest that became a mainstay of his private practice and his work at St. Luke's Hospital in New York.
        Besides his son Scott, Dr. Wilson is survived by his wife, Christine; his son Marc; his daughter, Cynthia;  two brothers, H. Donald and Stephen; and a grandson. All live in New York.
      