
        David R. Altman, a fashion advertising executive whose tag lines did for bolts of fabric what tigers in tanks had done for gasoline, died on Aug. 30 in New York. He was 85.
        The cause was complications of lymphoma, said his wife, Floria V. Lasky.
        As chairman of Altman, Stoller, Weiss, Mr. Altman built several obscure clothing lines and textile products into household names. He put Wrangler jeans on the map, making millions of American teenagers want what until then had been a little-known brand of denim work clothes. His ads promised that Wrangler's fabric would fade exactly the way that teenagers wanted it to.
        Mr. Altman elevated Monet jewelry from its budget status, photographing inexpensive pieces on his generation's version of supermodels.
        He also created the ''RRRRRRRRRuss Toggs'' sign that for years hailed motorists in red neon as they used the Midtown Tunnel in Manhattan. Associates said he got the idea after hearing a stuttering art director struggle to say ''Russ,'' and decided to elongate the name into a sexy purr.
        ''Find your character; create your character; concentrate on your character,'' Mr. Altman once urged the textile division of the New York Board of Trade, chiding Seventh Avenue entrepreneurs who were too busy pitching their products to stores to focus on their ultimate market, the retail shopper.
        Practicing what he preached, Mr. Altman was even able to attract consumer attention to plain bolts of cloth, with a campaign called ''Lean on Klopman,'' which showed an unusual photograph of a woman leaning confidently on what appears to be thin air. The ads convinced legions of shoppers that the fabrics of Klopman Mills, which they had never heard of before, possessed a high degree of reliability.
        In the mid-1970's, Mr. Altman decided to diversify his firm beyond fashion advertising, going after accounts with the Spanish tourist board, Ezo denture adhesive, Lanson champagne and others. His firm also handled the introduction of Newsweek's Inside Sports magazine.
        Mr. Altman said in a 1979 interview with The New York Times that he no longer wanted to concentrate on fashion advertising because, as he put it: ''There's no visible fashion industry. It's all merchandising.''
        ''I never photographed a dress in my life,'' he added. ''I photographed an idea.''
        Mr. Altman, who earned a law degree but did not practice law, also developed strong ideas about the role of advertising in electoral politics. In 1978, he published an essay on the Op-Ed page of The Times in which he acknowledged that as an ad man, he was appalled at what television advertising had done to election campaigns.
        ''I consider it an outrage that advertising professionals would fashion a political campaign along the same lines as a marketing program,'' he wrote, describing the way background music, ''trick lighting,'' and ''a full gamut of Hollywood special effects'' were being used to sell incompetent but glib candidates to American voters.
        ''A candidate is not a can of soup,'' he wrote.
        Mr. Altman served as an Army weapons instructor during World War II, then attended New York University law school on the G.I. Bill. He completed his law degree at night, working during the day as advertising director for The Women's Reporter, a trade publication. In that job, he was often called on to design his customers' ads. From there, he joined Irving Serwer Advertising, a fashion house, as an account executive.
        At Irving Serwer he worked with Max Stoller, with whom he founded Altman & Stoller in 1950. Melvin D. Weiss joined the firm in the mid-1970's. The firm was later sold.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Altman is survived by two daughters, Emily Altman of New York and Dara Altman of Potomac, Md., and a grandson.
      