
        Adrian P. Burke, a former associate judge of New York State's highest court who was also New York City corporation counsel, died last Sunday at his retirement home in Lauderhill, Fla. A former resident of Manhattan, he was 95.
        Judge Burke was the city's chief lawyer twice, though briefly, under Mayor Robert F. Wagner in 1954 and Mayor Abraham D. Beame in 1974. In between, from 1955 through 1973, he wrote 252 majority opinions and 146 dissenting or concurring opinions while on the New York State Court of Appeals.
        Long before that, as a young, politically well-connected lawyer, he played a role in a change in state laws known as the ''aid the needy'' provision of the State Constitution. It was adopted at a constitutional convention of 1938 at the behest of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia.
        Adrian Paul Burke was born in the Bronx. He graduated from Holy Cross College in 1927 and Fordham University Law School in 1930. In private practice, he represented individual and corporate clients in city, state and federal courts.
        Through his activity in charities that aided children, he met Mayor La Guardia, who never forgot his tenement background, and sometimes the two visited children's shelters together. The mayor, a liberal and nominally a Republican, believed that government had a duty to protect the unfortunate. Mr. Burke, a Democrat, liked what he heard from him, as did Senator Robert F. Wagner, Democrat of New York, a leading New Dealer.
        With the three men pushing for the change in the constitution, the State Legislature, the constitutional convention and the voters endorsed an amendment stating, ''The aid, care and support of the needy are public concerns and shall be provided by the state.'' The United States Constitution has no such provision, and few states have one.
        As Mr. Burke's standing in his party rose, he became the friend, confidante and campaign manager of the senator's son, also named Robert F. Wagner. Even before the younger Mr. Wagner took office as mayor of New York City in 1954, he offered Mr. Burke his pick of posts in his administration, and Mr. Burke chose to head the city's law department as corporation counsel.
        He led a fight against higher telephone rates and a campaign against smut, but soon went campaigning for himself as a Democratic candidate for associate judge of the Court of Appeals. He won, and among his law clerks in the 1950's were Mario M. Cuomo and Fabian Palomino, who later was Governor Cuomo's special counsel.
        (A change enacted in 1977 took the court of appeals out of politics. It mandates that the governor choose judges from a short list submitted by a selection panel, with the Senate voting on confirmation.)
        In 1971, Judge Burke wrote the majority opinion in a groundbreaking case of national significance. Reversing its own precedent, the court said that plaintiffs could sue for damages purely on the ground of emotional distress. Another opinion in 1966 overturned a murder conviction and set standards for judges to determine when criminal co-defendants are entitled to separate trials in the interest of fairness.
        In a more sensational case, the court in 1970 unanimously overturned the manslaughter conviction of Alice Crimmins in the death of her little daughter. Judge Burke wrote that reversal was mandatory because the case had been flawed by the conduct of some jurors. (Mrs. Crimmins was retried and convicted.)
        Judge Burke's final opinion, in December 1973, dealt with a case arising from the 1971 prison uprising at Attica. Judge Burke persuaded a 4-to-3 majority that the plaintiff could go to trial in a case alleging that the state used excessive force in retaking the prison.
        The plaintiff's husband, a prison employee, had been taken hostage and died when state troopers ended the siege. The wife went on to recover damages for wrongful death.
        Judge Burke's wife, Edith Martin Burke, died in 1995 after 60 years of marriage. The judge is survived by two sons, Adrian Jr., of Bethel, Conn., and Francis M., of Kingston, Ontario; a daughter, Edith Burke DeMuth of Howell, N.J.; and 10 grandchildren.
      