
        Paul Yager, a veteran federal labor mediator who helped resolve several important labor strikes in the New York City region, died Monday at a hospital in Edison, N.J. He was 80 and lived in Metuchen, N.J.
        The cause was heart failure, his daughter Deborah Yager said.
        Mr. Yager was the director of the Northeastern Region of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, based in New York City, from 1973 until his retirement from the service in 1986. He held lesser posts in the service from 1951 to 1973.
        He was active in 1984 in negotiations that led to a settlement of a 68-day strike by unionized workers against 11 nursing homes in New York City. In 1976, he was involved in negotiations that led to the end of an 11-day strike at 57 hospitals and nursing homes in New York City by nonmedical workers.
        The many other labor disputes he mediated included strikes involving the Philadelphia Orchestra that were settled.
        Former colleagues recalled yesterday that Mr. Yager was skilled at getting parties on opposite sides in a dispute to think that, through a compromise, they might be able to achieve part of what they were seeking.
        He also had an acute sense of timing, an ability to present an idea to the opposing parties at a time when it would be accepted by both sides. And he had enough stamina to be on hand for as much as 40 hours of nonstop bargaining.
        ''His personality was a key factor in his success,'' said Kenneth C. Kowalski, the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service's director for the northeastern United States and the Caribbean Islands.
        Hezekiah Brown, a former mediating colleague, recalled: ''He taught me to observe every single thing about the parties, from the time the individuals walk in the door until they sit at the table, and to watch the body language and what they say. He said, 'What you have to do to be a good mediator is to listen to what's not being said across the table.' ''
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Yager received a bachelor's degree from New York University and, after Navy service in World War II, a master's degree in 1949 from Cornell's New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations.
        Besides his daughter Deborah, of Philadelphia, he is survived by his wife, Naomi; another daughter, Marion Hamermesh of Wilmington, Del.;  a sister, Florence Levy of Jamesburg, N.J.; and two grandchildren.
      