
        Rebert H. Harris, the lead singer for the Soul Stirrers, whose style was the fountainhead for generations of gospel and soul singers, died on Sept. 3 in Chicago. He was 84 and lived in Chicago.
        Mr. Harris had a pure, high tenor voice that he used for syncopated moans and slurs and leaps into falsetto. With his three-octave range and smoothly unpredictable melismas, he improvised in ways that were simultaneously fervent and playful. When he left the Soul Stirrers in 1950, he was replaced by Sam Cooke, who brought Harris's style to a large new audience and then into pop and soul music.
        As Cooke's direct model, Mr. Harris's singing was an enormous influence on soul and rhythm-and-blues. ''All these people do me who don't know my name,'' Mr. Harris used to say.
        Mr. Harris was born in Trinity, Tex., 86 miles north of Houston. The Soul Stirrers were formed there in the 1920's, and the group attracted the best of the local gospel singers; Mr. Harris had been a member of a rival group, the Friendly Gospel Singers. He joined the Soul Stirrers in the mid-1930's, after the group was recorded by the Library of Congress. By the late 1930's the Soul Stirrers  included Mr. Harris, Thomas Brewster, Jesse Farley and Roy Crane.
        With Mr. Harris as lead singer, the Soul Stirrers brought innovations to the quartet style that had appeared in the 1920's. They traded lead vocals between two singers and used what Mr. Harris called ''delayed time,'' sustaining melodies against the group's steady beat to create syncopated tension. By the early 1940's the Soul Stirrers were nationally known and toured extensively. The group  recorded for the Aladdin label and then for Specialty.
        Some of Mr. Harris's best recordings from that era appear on the anthology ''Kings of the Gospel Highway'' (Shanachie) and on ''Shine on Me: The Soul Stirrers featuring R. H. Harris'' (Specialty). In 1947 Mr. Harris and other quartet lead singers formed the National Singing Quartets Union of America to promote the music; Mr. Harris became its president. He left the Soul Stirrers in 1950, to be replaced by Cooke.
        Mr. Harris led his own groups, but with less success. In the 1950's he had the Christland Singers, which  recorded for the Peacock and Nashboro labels, and then the Gospel Paraders, which recorded for Cooke's SAR Records around 1960. His career gained new momentum after he performed in 1972 at Radio City Music Hall in a gospel concert. He sang three songs on ''Precious Lord: The Songs of Thomas A. Dorsey'' (Columbia), a 1973 anthology produced by Mr. Heilbut.
        With his Masonic Quintet, Mr. Harris made an album in 1975, ''The Father of Them All,'' for Nashboro Records, and recorded the album, ''Because He Lives'' for his own label, RHJC, in 1978. It was his last recording, although he remained active in the National Gospel Quartets Union.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary; a sister, Overn Jolly Harris; three daughters, Jackie, Sheila and  Cheryl; a son, Greg; and several grandchildren.
        In 1989 he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of the Soul Stirrers.
        Correction:  September 13, 2000, Wednesday  A headline and a picture caption on Saturday with an obituary of Rebert  H. Harris, lead singer of the Soul Stirrers, characterized their music incorrectly. They were gospel singers, not soul singers.
        Because of an editing error, the obituary also omitted the given name and background of a producer. He is  Anthony Heilbut, a gospel historian and Mr. Harris's former producer.
        The obituary also misspelled the surnames of two members of the Soul Stirrers. They were Thomas Breuster (not Brewster) and Roy Crain (not Crane).
      