
        Bob Cummins, who ran the small jazz record label India Navigation, which documented much of the avant-garde loft-jazz scene that blossomed in Manhattan during the 70's and 80's in underused buildings  downtown, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Manhattan. He was 68.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Nancy.
        During his years as a record producer, Mr. Cummins never gave up his profession as a corporate lawyer. He worked for Western Union, then set up his own corporate law firm. He also helped jazz musicians who had legal problems.
        Starting with a concert recording made in 1972 by the Revolutionary Ensemble -- a trio consisting of the violinist Leroy Jenkins, the bassist Sirone and the drummer and pianist Jerome Cooper -- Mr. Cummins was devoted to recording the free, open-ended music of young New York musicians. It was a time when major record labels and jazz clubs were focusing on electric fusion or other commercial possibilities in jazz; fans like Mr. Cummins gave their time to create an influential underground scene virtually from scratch.
        Mr. Cummins supervised all the company's recordings, about 50 albums at the time of his death. He preferred live recordings for their spontaneity and set up recording equipment in long-gone, legendary jazz spots, like the Ladies' Fort in the East Village and Ornette Coleman's loft in SoHo.
        Mr. Cummins built a number of his own studios through the years, including one in the Western Union Building in TriBeCa and one in an old water bottling factory in Grand View, N.Y., which he and his family also used as a home.
        Among the musicians who made albums for India Navigation were David Murray, whose first album, ''Flowers for Albert,'' was recorded by Mr. Cummins at the Ladies' Fort; Hamiet Bluiett; Cecil McBee; Chico Freeman; and Arthur Blythe.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Cummins is survived by a daughter, Beth Cummins of Princeton, N.J.; a son, Thomas, of Manhattan; and a granddaughter.
      