
        Donald Gallup, the Yale literary bibliographer who in 1968 confirmed the discovery of the long-lost manuscript of T. S. Eliot's ''Waste Land,'' died in Branford, Conn., on Wednesday. He was 87.
        Mr. Gallup spent more than 30 years as a curator in the Yale Collection of American Literature.
        Patricia C. Willis, the current curator of the Yale Collection of American Literature, said she considered Mr. Gallup, who retired in 1980, ''the premier bibliographer for both Eliot and Ezra Pound, specializing in finding the first appearances of their work and documenting their creativity.''
        ''In the case of Pound,'' Ms. Willis said, ''Mr. Gallup found 1,989 works by the poet published in magazines and newspapers from 1902 until his death in 1972.''
        The object of literary bibliography is to discover and provide all useful information about a writer's publications, including size, binding, book jacket, date, price, print run, contents and so forth. All this may deepen understanding of the work.
        As a literary bibliographer, Mr. Gallup provided wide-ranging scholarly service to literature. The Eliot manuscript was discovered by curators in the New York Public Library, but it was Mr. Gallup whose analysis made the identification definitive.
        In addition to assembling bibliographies of the work of Eliot and Pound, Mr. Gallup edited writings by Pound's friends Gertrude Stein, Alice B. Toklas and Thornton Wilder, and has been celebrated for his work on Eugene O'Neill.
        As a young graduate student at Yale, Mr. Gallup used money from odd jobs and work in the Yale library to collect early writings by Eliot.
        His first Eliot checklist was published in 1937, and was expanded into a book in 1952. Delighted with the book, a writer for The Times Literary Supplement in London said it was for Eliot ''a compliment rarer, in mathematical terms, than the Nobel Prize or the Order of Merit,'' both of which Eliot already possessed.
        Eliot was ambivalent about that review. He is said to have mischievously hidden one or two items so  Mr. Gallup's work would not be complete, and then written to the author, saying it made him ''feel proud, but almost unworthy to be the occasion for such a masterpiece of contemporary bibliography.''
        But the manuscript for ''The Waste Land'' seemed to have disappeared. Then, in 1968, the New York Public Library called a news conference to announce the opening of the archive of John Quinn, a collector who had donated his Eliot bibliographic holdings to the library. The archive included manuscripts, notebooks and other items.
        Like a rabbit pulled out of a hat, the manuscript for ''The Waste Land'' was removed from a sealed envelope.
        Hearing of the discovery, The Times Literary Supplement immediately engaged Mr. Gallup to study the contents of the Quinn collection and write a report. It required only a week of study for Mr. Gallup to analyze and confirm the manuscript for ''The Waste Land.''
        Last year, Mr. Gallup donated a major part of his Eliot collection to the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library at Yale.
        Donald Clifford Gallup was born on May 12, 1913, in Sterling, Conn. His father was a lumber worker. After graduating from Yale in 1934, he taught English at Southern Methodist University in Dallas until 1941, when the United States entered World War II.
        During the war, he was stationed for two years in England, where he bought first editions of English poetry and 19th-century classics.
        One such acquisition was a copy of a William Butler Yeats poem presented to Pound. When his unit moved to Paris after the liberation, Mr. Gallup bought letters and other materials relating to Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas.
        Back at Yale in 1946, Mr. Gallup was employed as a librarian and then as a curator.
        Information about survivors was not immediately available.
      