
        David Elliott Bell, who was President John F. Kennedy's director of the Bureau of the Budget and then his administrator of the Agency for International Development, died on Wednesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 81.
        The cause was leukemia, said his daughter, Susan Bell.
        Mr. Bell taught population sciences and international health at Harvard from 1981 to 1988, when he retired from its faculty.
        After previous budget experience in the Roosevelt and Truman administrations and after serving as administrative assistant to President Harry S. Truman from 1951 to 1953, Mr. Bell was budget director in 1961 and 1962.
        Soon after Kennedy chose him for the post, in December 1960, Mr. Bell faced photographers and was asked to ''make out like you're saying something; say 'One, two, three, four.' ''
        With a faint smile he chose a more budgeteer-size figure and declared, ''Forty-five billion.''
        The journal Current Biography said in 1961, in a profile of Mr. Bell: ''The post of budget director is recognized as one of the most responsible in the government. The bureau is the central point where all the far-flung federal programs meet, where estimates of needs and resources are studied and adjusted, and often where allocations of resources are decided.''
        In early 1961, when Kennedy was deliberating, at a meeting of experts, about how to expand the space program, Mr. Bell is said to have asked skeptically where the money would come from.
        But in 1962, when Senator Paul H. Douglas, Democrat of Illinois, said at a hearing of the House-Senate Joint Economic Committee that he and many astronomers questioned the wisdom of spending billions to land a man on the moon, Mr. Bell defended the space program. He said there was no stunt involved.
        In budget policy, he turned out to be neither tightfisted nor a free spender. He advocated using the budget to stimulate or restrain economic activity as the situation might warrant. He also dedicated himself to getting people to understand the role of the budget and the different ways of looking at it.
        By late 1962, after about two years at the budget bureau, he had given the budget a new appearance and new concepts. He got federal agencies to engage in planning as they never had before. He strove to interweave the budget more closely with national economic policy. In addition, he greatly reduced the physical size of the printed budget, making it a volume that could fit into a reader's pocket.
        Having been chosen by Kennedy to become in 1962 the chief of the country's foreign-aid agency -- a post that was called in those days the job nobody craves -- Mr. Bell took up his new duties, still in Washington, in December of that year.
        By mid-1965, his dedication and modesty in running the Agency for International Development had brought him praise in the capital -- even from members of Congress, the scene of many skirmishes about foreign aid policy.
        By mid-1963, he had come to be known among foreign-aid watchers in Washington as a quick study, an alert decision-maker and ''the guy who can save this program if anyone can.''
        In an interview at that time, he said: ''Fundamentally, A.I.D.'s purpose is national security. By national security, we also mean a world of independent nations capable of making economic and social progress through free institutions. Economically, we're not aiming for standards of living; we're aiming for internal dynamics, self-sustaining growth.''
        Under him, the agency put far more emphasis on planning concerning specific countries and on a firm awareness of America's national interest. ''We have tried to apply a cold and realistic eye and to look several years ahead,'' Mr. Bell said in the interview.
        He stepped down from the post in 1966.
        From 1966 to 1980, he was variously a vice president and an executive vice president at the Ford Foundation, where he oversaw its international activities. He served concurrently for a time as a consultant to Frank Press, President Jimmy Carter's science adviser.
        Mr. Bell was born in Jamestown, N.D., and received a bachelor's degree in 1939 from Pomona College in Claremont, Calif., where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and a master's degree in economics from Harvard.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Barry Bell, whom he married in 1943; a daughter, Susan Bell of Putney, Vt.; a son, Peter B., of Watertown, Mass.; a sister, Barbara Bell Dwiggins of San Luis Obispo, Calif; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      