
        Seybourn H. Lynne, the federal judge who in 1963 prohibited Gov. George C. Wallace from barring two black students from attending the University of Alabama, died on Sunday in Birmingham. He was 93 and was the longest serving active judge on the federal bench.
        ''The governor of a sovereign state has no authority to obstruct or prevent the execution of lawful orders of a court of the United States,'' Judge Lynne said in an opinion first written in pencil on legal paper.
        The opinion was the first Judge Lynne had written in the first person in 29 years on the bench, and it starkly reflected his anguish about the civil rights revolution raging across the South.
        ''I love the people of Alabama,'' he said, but he insisted that the law of the land came first. ''I know many of both races are troubled and like Jonah of old, are 'angry even unto death,' '' he wrote. ''My prayer is that all of our people, in keeping with our finest tradition, will join in the resolution that law and order will be maintained.''
        Judge Lynne was hardly a leader in integration. In 1956, he was the dissenter in a three-judge panel's decision to integrate city buses in Montgomery, and later that year he declined a Justice Department recommendation to convene a grand jury to investigate charges that the civil rights of three black ministers had been violated.
        The next year he had no opinion on a similar panel's warning against setting up a private all-white bus line to circumvent the integration ruling.
        Often, he opposed the positions of Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr., a judge on the same federal court who became a hero to civil rights advocates.
        Judge Lynn's decision on desegregating the state university was seen by many as a simple reiteration of a 1956 court order to admit another black student, Autherine J. Lucy, who had been quickly expelled by the board of trustees, which said it wanted to stop unrest.
        Moreover, many historians have come to see Judge Lynne's order as part of a deal he made with the Kennedy administration: The students, Vivian Malone Jones and James Hood, could be admitted to the university at the same time that Governor Wallace would be allowed to make a showy display, then stand aside and avoid arrest.
        Over the years, Judge Lynne seemed to become friendlier to civil rights demands. In 1966, he joined Judge Johnson in ruling that segregation of jails was unconstitutional. In 1969, he ordered the integration of Birmingham's most exclusive cemetery, a decision that resulted in a barrage of hate mail.
        ''He was in the middle of the road,'' said Julian Butler, a Huntsville, Ala., lawyer who clerked for Judge Lynne in 1965. ''He moved more slowly than other federal judges.''
        Part of the reason was his discomfort with the movement's disruption of the old Southern ways.
        ''The tactics of some of the protest got under his skin,'' said Robert L. Potts, a law clerk for Judge Lynne in 1969 and 1970 and now president of the University of North Alabama. ''He thought some of it was less than honorable.''
        But Mr. Potts, who worked on the cemetery desegregation case, said the judge underwent a ''growth process.''
        Seybourn Harris Lynne was born on July 25, 1907, in Decatur, Ala. He graduated from what is now Auburn University and the University of Alabama's law school. While a law student, he was track coach and an assistant football coach at Alabama.
        He then worked in his father's firm in Decatur, where his grandfather, a Confederate Civil War veteran, had begun the family practice. In 1934, he was elected to a county court, where he served until his election as a state circuit judge in 1940. In 1942, he joined the Army, serving as a military judge in the Pacific and winning a Bronze Star.
        In 1946, President Harry S. Truman named him a federal judge for northern Alabama, and he became the district's chief judge. In 1973, he took senior status, though kept hearing cases until earlier this year.
        Judge Lynne, who lived in a Birmingham suburb, was a Southern gentleman with scant patience for wayward lawyers. His skill at pressuring them to settle cases became legendary, and so did his ability to guess what a jury would award. He read every Supreme Court decision and could cite passages after just one reading, his former clerks said.
        Judge Lynne's wife, the former Katherine Donaldson Brandua, and his one child, Katherine Roberta Lynne, preceded him in death.
        In 1995, Congress named the federal building in Decatur, across the street from his birthplace and boyhood home, the Seybourn H. Lynne Federal Courthouse.
      