
        Lt.Gen. William W. Quinn, an intelligence officer during World War II and an infantry commander in the Korean conflict, died today at Walter Reed Army Hospital. He was 92.
        In more than 30 years in the military, General Quinn held a variety of senior posts.
        As an intelligence officer in World War II, he gathered information and helped coordinate the Allied invasion of Southern France in August 1944.
        Later that year, during the Battle of the Bulge, Colonel Quinn anticipated a German attack on the Seventh Army in Northern France. On New Year's Eve, the offensive materialized. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal for his intelligence assessment that provided a crucial warning of the attack.
        In April 1945, he was among the troops who helped liberate the Dachau concentration camp, near Munich. Colonel Quinn, then the top intelligence officer for the Seventh Army, ordered his team to document the Dachau operations.
        After the war, he was named chief of operations of the organization that became the Central Intelligence Agency. ''His preparations,'' George J. Tenet, the director of central intelligence, said today, ''ensured that the country maintained some vital intelligence resources when chilled relations with the Soviet Union expanded into a cold war.''
        As commanding officer of the 17th Infantry, Seventh Division, in Korea in 1951, General Quinn led his regiment -- known as the Buffaloes -- against the Communist forces, serving as a spearhead of the Seventh Infantry. The name became popular with his troops, and it stuck.
        He also served as chief of information for the Department of the Army from 1959 to 1961, before joining the Defense Intelligence Agency, where he rose to deputy director. In 1964, he became the commanding general of the Seventh Army in Germany. He retired in 1966.
        The general graduated from the National War College, the Infantry School and the Command and General Staff College. Besides the Distinguished Service Medal, he received the Silver Star, the Bronze Star, the Legion of Merit and a Purple Heart.
        William Wilson Quinn was born in Crisfield, Md., on Nov. 1, 1907. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1933.
        The general is survived by his wife, the former Bette Williams of Arlington, Va., whom he married in 1939; two daughters, the writer Sally Quinn, of Washington, and Donna Quinn Robbins of Oakland, Calif.; a son, William W. Jr., of Phoenix; and four grandchildren.
      