
        Dr. Herbert Friedman, a pioneer in X-ray astronomy who received some of the country's top scientific honors over a 60-year career, died on Saturday.
        He was 84 and lived in Arlington, Va.
        A prolific scientist who published some 300 papers, Dr. Friedman conducted his earliest research after World War II, putting experiments aboard V-2 rockets sent into the upper atmosphere, where instruments could record X-rays and other radiation emanating from the sun.
        Later measurements were done on  satellites. His work resulted in the discovery of the first X-ray sources outside the solar system and was used to study aspects of the theory of black holes and neutron stars.
        Dr. Friedman was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1960 and was awarded the National Science Medal, the nation's top scientific prize, in 1968. In 1987, with Dr. Bruno Rossi and Dr. Riccardo Gianconi, he received the Wolf Prize in Physics, one of the most prestigious, for his ''important contributions to the rapidly growing field of extrasolar X-ray astronomy.''
        He also owned 50 patents and wrote several books, including ''The Amazing Universe'' (National Geographic Society, 1975).
        Herbert Friedman was born in 1916 in Brooklyn. His passion during childhood was painting and sketching, and it was his plan to major in art when he enrolled at Brooklyn College in 1932. But in his junior year, inspired by a professor, he switched to physics.
        After receiving a doctorate in physics from Johns Hopkins University in 1940, Dr. Friedman joined the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington, where he began studying the crystal structure of metals using X-rays.
        A mentor, Dr. E. O. Hulburt, encouraged him to apply his interest in X-rays to astronomy. By the early 1950's, using X-ray detectors on rockets, Dr. Friedman was making seminal contributions to solar astronomy, discovering, for example, that X-rays, and not ultraviolet rays, were the principal cause of communications disturbances during solar flares.
        He later studied X-ray sources outside the solar system. In 1964, he discovered X-rays from the Crab Nebula, the remains of a supernova explosion in Earth's galaxy, a measurement that Dr. Freeman J. Dyson, a theoretical physicist at the Institute for Advanced Studies in Princeton, N.J., called ''the most brilliant achievement of the sounding-rocket era.''
        In 1968, he obtained the first evidence of X-ray pulses from a neutron star, or pulsar, in the Crab Nebula.
        Dr. Frederick Seitz, past president of the National Academy of Sciences, said Dr. Friedman's first paper on X-ray stars was accepted with great reluctance by Physical Review, the top physics journal.
        But scientists soon came around to recognizing Dr. Friedman's contributions, Dr. Seitz said.
        Dr. Friedman is survived by his wife of 60 years, Gertrude; two sons, Jon, of Manhattan, and Paul, of Washington; and three grandchildren.
      