
        Joseph H. Lewis, whose gritty, fast-paced low-budget films so transcended the conventions of the B-movie that filmmakers and screenwriters like Martin Scorsese, Peter Bogdanovich and Jay Cocks were moved to elevate him to the pantheon of auteurs, died on Aug. 30. He was 93 and lived in Marina del Rey, Calif.
        From 1937 to 1958, Mr. Lewis directed nearly 40 films with titles like ''Singing Outlaw'' (1937), ''Two-Fisted Rangers'' (1940), ''The Invisible Ghost'' (1941), ''Bombs Over Burma'' (1942), ''The Falcon in San Francisco'' (1945), ''Retreat, Hell!'' (1952), ''Cry of the Hunted'' (1953), ''The Seventh Cavalry'' (1956) and ''Terror in a Texas Town'' (1958).
        His versatility and skill were also manifest in the musical numbers he directed in the 1946 hit ''The Jolson Story.'' And many film aficionados found him at the peak of his form in ''Gun Crazy,'' shot on a $400,000 budget in 30 days in 1949. Released in 1950, this film noir starred Peggy Cummins as a hard-boiled carnival markswoman who teams up with John Dall as a confused war veteran in a tale of banditry on the West Coast.
        After pronouncing the proceedings ''basically on a par with the most humdrum pulp fiction,'' Howard Thompson wrote in The New York Times, ''In fact, director Joseph H. Lewis has kept the whole thing zipping along at a colorful tempo which deserves a much better outlet.''
        Only after the heyday of Mr. Lewis's career, which he slowed after he had a major heart attack at 46, did connoisseurs of film begin to trumpet his virtues as a master of his craft notable for the pacing of his movies and the handling of his actors.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1991 on the occasion of a tribute to Mr. Lewis at the Public Theater, Mr. Scorsese and Mr. Cocks said, ''Low budgets and tight schedules didn't cramp his style; it seems as if they invigorated and helped invent it.''
        They summed up ''Gun Crazy'' as ''a great movie that never set out to be one.'' In particular, they cited a scene shot from the back seat of a Cadillac that followed the leading characters as they drove into town to commit a bank robbery. Describing  it as unrelenting and involving, Mr. Scorsese and Mr. Cocks wrote: ''There's no more audience. There are only accomplices.''
        In 1997 Mr. Lewis received the Los Angeles Critics Association Lifetime Achievement Award.
        ''I signed my name to every foot of film,'' he told Mr. Bogdanovich in an interview.
        Mr. Lewis also directed episodes of ''The Rifleman,'' ''Gunsmoke'' and ''The Defenders,'' among other television series.
        In recent years he was much in demand to deliver lectures to aspiring filmmakers and to appear at  retrospectives that honored him in places like Germany, France and Telluride, Colo.
        As recently as five weeks before his death, he appeared at a screening of ''Gun Crazy'' at the University of California at Los Angeles.
        Mr. Lewis, an optometrist's son who was born in Brooklyn and studied at DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, followed a brother to Hollywood in the 1920's in hopes of becoming an actor. Ben, his brother, helped him to find work as a camera assistant before Mr. Lewis also took up editing as films were converting to sound.
        After an apprenticeship as a second unit director, he began making films for Republic Pictures.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Lewis enjoyed duck hunting and trout and deep-sea fishing, especially aboard his 50-foot trawler, Buena Vista, named for his wife of more than 50 years.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Lewis is survived by a daughter, Candy Sangster of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
        Gale Reingold, a Jungian analyst in Los Angeles who was Mr. Lewis's friend and fishing companion for 40 years, said Mr. Lewis once told him: ''In every film I ever directed, I had the sense I could see something beyond the script and beyond the story. It's as if I'm pulling up something out of a place I really don't know anything about.''
      