
        Dr. William A. Nierenberg, a physicist with a passion for the ocean who spent five decades striving to mesh science, technology and policy as an adviser to presidents, military agencies and NATO, died Sunday at his home in San Diego. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, according to a statement from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography in San Diego, of which Dr. Nierenberg was the director from 1965 to 1986.
        From the 1950's until shortly before his death, he served on dozens of National Academy of Sciences committees, presidential commissions and panels examining issues as varied as what to do about acid rain and where to hide ballistic missiles.
        More than many of his peers, Dr. Nierenberg gravitated toward the uncomfortable interface between science and politics, a tendency that, when combined with a rapid-fire, straight-talking manner, sometimes put him at odds with colleagues.
        But any differences of opinion did not erode lifelong friendships, said Dr. Walter H. Munk, a research oceanographer at Scripps who knew Dr. Nierenberg for 40 years and debated him on issues like global warming, a theory that Dr. Nierenberg long held posed little immediate threat to human affairs.
        When Dr. Nierenberg was appointed to run Scripps, Dr. Munk recalled, ''there was some concern as to whether a nonoceanographer would do this job well.'' But, Dr. Munk added, ''he fought hard for the institution.''
        While Dr. Nierenberg was director, Scripps pioneered several research projects, including extensive drilling surveys of the sea floor, which revealed much about the history of the oceans and the dynamics of the earth's crust, and studies of the interactions of the oceans and the atmosphere.
        William Aaron Nierenberg was born in New York City on Feb. 13, 1919. According to the National Academy of Sciences, to which he was elected in 1971, he received three degrees in physics -- his bachelor's degree from City College of New York in 1939 and his master's and doctorate from Columbia University in 1942 and 1947. At Columbia, he studied under I. I. Rabi, winner of the 1944 Nobel Prize in Physics.
        While pursuing his degrees, Dr. Nierenberg served as a section leader on the Manhattan Project.
        He taught briefly at the University of Michigan, but it was after he moved to the University of California at Berkeley in 1950 that he established his credentials in experimental physics. While there, he formed the Atomic Beam Laboratory and, from 1950 to 1965, his work resulted in more than 100 academic papers.
        In the mid-1950's he took a break from physics and developed expertise in sonar and antisubmarine warfare, which he put to use advising government and military agencies on scientific questions related to national security.
        From then on, his career focused on applying science to some purpose, be it national defense or measuring the risks posed by pollution.
        From 1960 to 1962, he served as assistant secretary general for scientific affairs of NATO, and from 1962 into the 1980's he was a member of several groups that offered advice to the Pentagon and White House.
        Dr. Nierenberg is survived by his wife, Edith; a son, Nicolas, of San Diego; a daughter, Victoria Nierenberg Tschinkel of Tallahassee, Fla.; and three grandchildren.
      