
        Konrad Kujau, a raffish German swindler who sold 60 volumes of forged ''Hitler diaries'' to a German magazine for $4.8 million, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Stuttgart, Germany. He was 62.
        The cause was stomach cancer, a family member said.
        Mr. Kujau's bogus handiwork, described as private journals written by the Fuhrer, was published by Stern, the weekly, in 1983. The first excerpts appeared in Stern and in a British newspaper, The Sunday Times, which bought them from Stern. Hugh Trevor-Roper, the British historian, had read the material before The Times began to publish it, in English.
        But their authenticity was quickly challenged. On the day after The Times printed the first excerpt, Mr. Trevor-Roper acknowledged that he had ''misunderstood the nature of their procurement.'' He said he had come to have doubts that they were authentic.
        Before long, the diaries were definitively found to be fakes. Authorities on Hitler-era documents who were on the staff of the federal German archives declared that the ''diaries'' were made with postwar ink, paper, glue and even binding.
        In May 1983, the West German government declared that chemical testing had shown that without doubt the ''diaries'' were fake. The director of the archives, Hans Booms, said much of the content had seemingly been lifted from a book, ''Hitler: Speeches and Proclamations -- 1932-1945,'' that Max Domarus compiled and published privately in the early 60's. Mr. Booms said mistakes in the book also appeared in the ''diaries,'' which he called a ''grotesque, superficial forgery.'' He insinuated that they had originated with Nazi sympathizers or Nazis.
        Also in May 1983, a West German journalist who had brought the ''diaries'' to light reported that he had obtained them from a dealer of Nazi memorabilia in Stuttgart. The dealer was said to have done the forging and he was said to have called himself Konrad Kujau. By then, he had disappeared from Stuttgart. Mr. Kujau was later arrested.
        People who had dealings with the journalist said the dealer, using the name Konrad Fischer, asserted that the ''diaries'' had been smuggled out of East Germany by an East German officer who was his brother
        In 1985, the regional court in Hamburg found Mr. Kujau guilty of fraud. He was sentenced to four and a half years in prison, but was released a year and a half early.
        In later years, Mr. Kujau got into more -- but lesser -- trouble. Late last year, he was charged a hefty fine by a Stuttgart court because a number of falsified driving licenses were found in his apartment in a police raid. In the same period, he was also fined for having fired a semiautomatic weapon in a Stuttgart pub and was accused of keeping seven unregistered weapons in his house in Bietigheim-Bissingen in southwestern Germany. The judge in the weapons case in Stuttgart, Ulf Petzold, said to him, ''You are very apparently a man who is attracted by that which is illegal.''
        Mr. Kujau was born in eastern Germany, studied art for a time in Dresden in East Germany in the late 50's and moved to what was then West Germany.
        Surviving are his wife and a son.
        In a way, Mr. Kujau also became somewhat respectable in his later years. In 1996, he was an unsuccessful candidate for mayor of Stuttgart. And this year he was selling what he called Old Master paintings, but was advertising them as fakes.
      