
        Francis Haskell, who wrote influential books on art patronage and the history of taste and who was a professor of art history at Oxford University from 1967 to 1995, died on Jan. 18 at his home in Oxford, England. He was 71.
        The cause was liver cancer, said a spokesman for The New York Review of Books.
        Mr. Haskell published his first book, ''Patrons and Painters: A Study in the Relations Between Italian Art and Society in the Age of the Baroque,'' in 1963. Its emphasis on the social history of the period was a departure at a time when art scholarship was largely focused on connoisseurship. Illuminating in its ideas and engagingly written, the book has long since attained classic status.
        After being appointed professor at Oxford, Mr. Haskell embarked on what proved to be a careerlong investigation of the history of taste. He focused on the cultural mechanisms that have dictated patterns of collecting and the rise and fall of artists' reputations. And he considered how modern attitudes about art, often very different from those of the past, have shaped the writing of art history and determined what art is valued and what is not.
        In addressing those ideas, he shifted his attention from the Baroque to 19th-century academic art, the subject of ''Rediscoveries in Art: Some Aspects of Taste, Fashion and Collecting in England and France,'' which appeared in 1976 and won the Mitchell Prize in Art History the next year.
        This book was followed by ''Taste and the Antique: The Lure of Classical Sculpture 1500-1900'' (1981), which was written with Nicholas Penny and traced the decline and fall in popularity of the ''classical ideal'' in Western sculpture. In 1993 came ''History and Its Images: Art and the Interpretation of the Past'' (1993), about ways in which older art has been used and misused as a source of historical information. At the time of his death, he had completed a book on the growth of public exhibitions of art in the 19th and 20th centuries.
        Mr. Haskell's books have been widely admired for their historical breadth, intellectual vitality and stylistic grace. Mr. Haskell was also well known to American readers as an essayist, particularly for his contributions to The New York Review of Books, where he appeared regularly since 1964.
        He is survived by his wife, Larissa, a former curator of the Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia.
      