
        Stanley Turrentine, a jazz tenor saxophonist whose blues-based, easygoing style appealed to a market wider than the jazz world for 40 years, died on Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 66 and lived in Fort Washington, Md.
        The cause was a stroke, said Robin Burgess, his agent. Mr. Turrentine  collapsed in his hotel room on Sunday before finishing a six-night run at the Blue Note.
        Though he was not a schooled musician, Mr. Turrentine had the essence of blues and gospel playing;  there was a lithe sensuousness in his sound.
        His early influences were Coleman Hawkins and Don Byas, and like them he had a broad tone. But he was not a cathartic or harmonically complex player; he broke up his improvisations with subtle cries and sighs and made his improvisations easy to follow.
        Mr. Turrentine was born in Pittsburgh. His father was a part-time jazz musician who had performed with Al Cooper's Savoy Sultans and  his mother played church piano. His  elder brother, Tommy, became a trumpeter.
        After taking up the saxophone at the age of 11, he began his career as a teenager, touring for two years with Lowell Fulson's group, a band that also included Ray Charles on piano. He moved to Cleveland and worked with Tadd Dameron. In 1953 he replaced John Coltrane in the saxophonist Earl Bostic's group.
        He entered the Army in 1956 and played in the 158th Army Band, which he said was the only formal schooling in music he ever had. At the end of the 1950's he worked with the Max Roach Quintet alongside his brother.
        He began his affiliation with Blue Note records in 1960, making his own first album, ''Look Out!,'' after appearing as a sideman on records by the Blue Note artists Dizzy Reece and Jimmy Smith.
        With Blue Note, he would become one of the top figures in the field that became known as soul-jazz, unpretentious working-class music that usually featured a tenor saxophonist and an organ and that had a circuit of small clubs in black neighborhoods across the country.
        In the 1960's he was married for a time to the organist Shirley Scott. They appeared on each other's albums, which became increasingly commercial and exposed the artists to rock and soul audiences. In 1969 his contract with Blue Note ended, and he jumped to CTI. His 1970 album, ''Sugar,'' made with George Benson, was his biggest hit and was his springboard into a long period of light pop-jazz, the antecedent for today's smooth jazz.
        He later recorded for Fantasy, on recording dates arranged by Gene Page and Elektra. He reappeared on Blue Note after it reactivated itself in the mid-80's, making a tribute record to Stevie Wonder. Throughout the 90's, Mr. Turrentine recorded for Musicmaster, and kept up a busy performance schedule.
        Mr. Turrentine's group opened for Aretha Franklin at a JVC Jazz Festival concert at Avery Fisher Hall this summer.
        He is survived by his wife, Judith; his daughters, Sheri, Lisa, Pamela and Nicole, all of Philadelphia; a stepson, Mark Weatherly of Falls Church, Va.; two sisters; three grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      