
        Frederick Henry Koch Jr., a professor of drama at the University of Miami who is credited with creating the first fully flexible theater building in the round in the United States, died on Aug. 26 at his home in Miami. He was 88.
        Mr. Koch, who was born in Grand Forks, N.D., received degrees in drama and sociology at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where his father, also a drama professor, founded and directed the Carolina Playmakers.
        After graduating in 1933, he began his career as a social worker and statistician for the Tennessee Valley Authority in the Great Smoky Mountains of western North Carolina. He left two years later to go on the road with a puppet show that promoted dental health.
        By 1937 Mr. Koch had developed his own puppet show and toured the country with his wife, Edna Bryant, who had worked as a director. They wrote their own shows and made their own puppets, often discussing their construction as part of the entertainment.
        In 1939, after completing his master's degree at Chapel Hill and a brief teaching stint at the University of Virginia, he joined the faculty of the University of Miami, where he set out to build a drama department and a theater. Seven years later he organized the first Ring, a theater in the round housed in the rotund tower of a turreted three-story hotel on the university's north campus in Coral Gables.
        The Ring was later moved to a mammoth circular tent on the main campus. By 1950 work had begun on the $125,000 permanent structure in which the architects Robert M. Little and Marion I. Manley incorporated features like a revolving stage and moveable riser units to seat 600 people who would never be more than eight rows from the stage. Called by some America's most flexible theater, it permitted proscenium and horseshoe as well as central staging. The raised seats on rollers could be rearranged in an endless variety of ways to bring the audience and performers into a closer relationship. The theater was inaugurated in February 1952 with a performance of Mary Ellen Chase's play ''Harvey.''
        In addition to the Ring, Mr. Koch developed a smaller theater with a conventional proscenium stage, the Box, in which aspiring playwrights would have their work produced in exchange for an evaluation by the audience. Among the students was Jerry Herman, who would later write ''Hello Dolly,'' ''Mame'' and ''La Cage aux Folles.''
        Mr. Koch is survived by three sons, Frederick III and Christopher Alan, both of Miami, and Thomas Bryant of Burnsville, N.C.; two brothers, Robert Alan, of Princeton, N.J., and William Julian, of Glendale, Ariz.; seven grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
        ''Arena playing bursts the picture frame and flows into a third dimension of movement, and perhaps a fourth dimension of the human heart and mind,'' Mr. Koch said of his creation in a 1951 interview in The New York Times. ''The audience no longer watches a play. It is enfolded by it and vibrates with it. Through intimacy the new-old theater restores the right of the audience to see and hear and delight in every detail.''
        Correction:  October 3, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary on Sept. 15 about Frederick Koch, a theater designer and professor of drama, misstated the place of his death. It was his home in Burnville, N.C., not his second home, in Miami.
      