
        George Christopher, who as San Francisco's mayor persuaded the New York Giants to move to California, died on Thursday in San Francisco. He was 92.
        Mr. Christopher, a Republican, served two terms as mayor from 1956 through 1964. He got off to a strong start: when he was elected in 1955, it was by the biggest majority of any San Francisco mayoral election until then.
        As mayor, he gave new vitality to the city's financial district, he enlarged its international airport and he presided over one of its largest building booms.
        Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat who was the city's mayor from 1978 to 1988, said: ''As mayor, George set a course for the city as an international destination, a major league baseball city and a financial center for the West.
        ''Whether it was bringing the Giants to San Francisco, expanding the city's business base or putting the city on the international map, the San Francisco of today has its roots in his remarkable years as mayor.''
        It was after the 1957 baseball season that Mayor Christopher pulled off his great coup of convincing the owner of the New York Giants, Horace Stoneham, to move the baseball team west.
        In a 1957 interview, Mayor Christopher said he convinced Mr. Stoneham that ''San Francisco's climate and love of competition would nourish major league baseball,'' and ''that we would build a $10 million stadium'' for the team. In due course, Candlestick Park was built near San Francisco Bay.
        In the winter of 1957, both of New York City's National League teams, the Giants and the Brooklyn Dodgers, announced plans to move to California, the Giants to San Francisco and the Dodgers to Los Angeles.
        Mr. Christopher was San Francisco's last Republican mayor. He withdrew from political life after being defeated by Ronald Reagan in the 1966 Republican primary for governor of California.
        Mayor Christopher's surname was Christopheles when he was born in Arcadia, Greece. The family moved to San Francisco when he was 2.
        In his early 20's, he changed his name to Christopher, received an accounting degree from Golden Gate University and acquired American citizenship.
        In his prepolitical years he worked in the dairy industry and came to own a dairy business.
        Mr. Christopher started out in politics in 1945, when he was elected to the San Francisco Board of Supervisors. In 1949 he was re-elected and became the board's president.
        In 1935 Mr. Christopher married Tula Sarantitis, who died in 1990.
        He is survived by three sisters, Beatrice Tentes, Helen Christopher and Ethel Davies, all of San Francisco, and several nieces and nephews.
      