
        Jerzy Giedroyc, a founding editor of Kultura, a Polish literary and political magazine published in Paris that championed the exiled Polish democratic opposition movement, died on Thursday in Paris. He was 94 and lived in Paris.
        A leading figure of postwar Polish culture, Mr. Giedroyc (his name was pronounced YEH-shee GED-roych)  published the works of dozens of writers banned by the Communist government in Poland.
        Mr. Giedroyc was convinced that being published and reviewed abroad ''was critical to our survival as a people,'' said the author Gustaw Herling, who helped him establish Kultura in 1947 and contributed to it until his own death in July.
        The works published in Kultura, which means culture, ranged widely, from the arts and fiction to philosophy and politics, including Leszek Kolakowski's ''Struggle Between Caesar and God,'' an analysis of the role played by religion and the Roman Catholic Church in the Polish resistance to totalitarianism, and  Slawomir Mrozek's ''Nose,'' a study of the patterns of anti-Semitism in Polish culture. In ''Conversation,'' Marek Nowakowski presented a fictionalized account of an interrogation that drew subtle links between victim and executioner.
        Another contribution came from Col. Ryszard Kuklinski, who had been assigned secret military plans for introducing martial law in December 1981, but leaked them to the Solidarity movement and fled Poland. In an essay he delivered a chilling report on Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski's role as a Soviet puppet.
        Even more frightening was Leopold Tyrmand's ''Hairstyles of Mieczyslaw Rakowski,'' the former journalist and prime minister. Mr. Tyrmand mercilessly dissected the opportunistic talent necessary to rise in the Communist government.
        The Polish authorities did not take Mr. Giedroyc's activities lightly.
        In 1962 the Warsaw Provincial Court sentenced a local librarian to a year in prison on a charge that she had accepted $170 from Mr. Giedroyc to finance her effort to smuggle out of the country a manuscript that was said to slander the Communist governments in Poland and other countries.
        The librarian, the court found, had started to translate the book and then tried to send part of it to Mr. Giedroyc in Paris.
        Other offenders against censorship were dealt with even more harshly.
        Born in Minsk, Mr. Giedroyc arrived in France after World War II and had lived since 1949 in Maisons-Laffitte, in the western outskirts of the capital.
        In addition to the monthly Kultura, he founded a publishing house of the same name, also in 1947.
      