
        The Rev. Ellwood Kieser, an Emmy Award-winning Roman Catholic priest who blended religious commitment with a passion for making socially aware film and television, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 71 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was colon cancer, said the Rev. Frank Desiderio, his associate and successor in his production company.
        Father Kieser (pronounced KY-zerr) was a well-known figure in the entertainment industry, an imposing, burly 6-foot-7 clergyman who spoke the lingo of the Hollywood producer with the same fervor he used to cite his faith in social activism, nonviolence and the human spirit.
        ''No other Catholic priest has made such a lasting contribution,  both as a producer and a pastor to the entertainment community,'' Father Desiderio said.
        In 1968 Father Kieser founded the nonprofit Paulist Productions, named for his order of priests. The company produced ''Insight,'' a public service television series that won six Emmys during a 23-year run that ended in 1983. Among the actors who appeared on this dramatic anthology series were Carol Burnett, Ed Asner, Walter Matthau, Flip Wilson and Bob Newhart.
        Father Kieser was executive producer of the feature film ''Romero'' (1989), starring Raul Julia, about the assassination of Archbishop Oscar Romero of El Salvador, who campaigned against the landowner- and military-supported death squads.
        He also produced the film ''Entertaining Angels: The Dorothy Day Story'' (1996), about the Roman Catholic activist. Father Kieser was executive producer of ''We Are the Children,'' an ABC drama set in famine-stricken Ethiopia. The film starred Ted Danson, Judith Ivey and Ally Sheedy.
        John Wells, the television writer and producer who helped create ''E.R.'' and other shows and who wrote scripts for Father Kieser, said today: ''The message he wanted to convey was secular. He encouraged writers to show and glorify the way individuals can make a difference. He was interested in showing the best parts of human nature rather than what's often portrayed on films and television.''
        ''His calling was to try to change the culture,'' Mr. Wells added.
        Perhaps Father Kieser was best-known for establishing the annual Humanitas Prize in 1974 to exemplify ''human values and bring the insights of the Judeo-Christian vision of man to bear on our contemporary situation.'' The prizes, ranging from $10,000 to $25,000, were financed by the entertainment industry. At the most recent awards ceremony in July, awards went to, among others, the screenwriters of the films ''Love and Basketball'' and ''The Insider,'' and the television adaptation of the book ''Tuesdays With Morrie.''
        ''These shows tackle the big questions -- the ones that keep us awake in the middle of the night -- and they challenge us to seek out our own answers,'' Father Kieser said at the ceremony.
        Father Kieser, who referred to himself as Father Bud Keiser, grew up in Philadelphia and graduated from La Salle College in 1950. That year he joined the Paulist Fathers, who are dedicated to the service of those outside their church. He earned his Ph.D. in theology of communications from the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, Calif.,  in 1973, writing his dissertation on ''Cinema as a Religious Experience.'' He also received two honorary Doctor of Letters degrees, one from Catholic University, the other from La Salle.
        He is survived by an older sister, Shirley Hoberg of Atherton, Calif., and two younger brothers, Bill and Don, both of Philadelphia.
        Besides producing films, Father Kieser said he viewed himself, almost in a secular way, as the conscience of the film and television business, often criticizing the violence he saw on the screen. But he deplored the idea of censorship and said he believed movies and television were ideal vehicles for conveying spiritual values.
        ''Jesus was a storyteller,'' he once said. ''He told stories in order to challenge people and illumine the meaning of their lives and motivate them to love. I would like to think I make movies for the same purpose.''
      