
        Irving I. Stone, who helped turn a small family business, started in 1906, into the world's second-largest maker of greeting cards, died Monday at University Hospitals in Cleveland. He was 90 and lived in Beachwood, Ohio.
        Mr. Stone began at age 5 by stuffing postcards into envelopes for his father, Jacob Sapirstein, who set up shop the year after he arrived from Russia and had his entire inventory stored in the family living room in Cleveland.
        Mr. Stone was 9 when his father became seriously ill and the boy, as a full partner, took charge of all aspects of the business: sales, deliveries and billings.
        At age 12, he assumed the bookkeeping chores at the Sapirstein Greeting Card Company, years later to be confidently renamed the American Greetings Corporation. He worked for it through high school and college, and he and his two younger brothers delivered their cards to stores in outlying districts and small towns to make the business grow.
        In the 1930's, unhappy with the quality of what they were buying for resale, Mr. Stone directed the company to begin designing and printing its own cards. This gave rise to the American Greetings Creative Department, which remains one of the biggest art studios in the United States, with 400 artists and writers producing some 20,000 designs a year.
        He served as the department's editor, writer, art director and manager, taking night courses in art and creative writing to improve his skills. One of his earliest efforts, ''From Someone Who Likes to Remember Someone Too Nice to Forget,'' sold more cards than any other in the company's repertory and remains part of the line.
        Once Mr. Stone's early designs were printed, they sold quickly and led the company to start sales campaigns far beyond Cleveland and its environs. His innovations helped to transform the industry's methods of making and distributing its products. Into his 80's, he had the final say on every card verse and took hundreds of them home each weekend to pore over.
        Born in Cleveland, he attended Case Western Reserve University and the Cleveland Institute of Art. He was named president of American Greetings in 1960, succeeding his father, and became chairman and chief executive in 1978.
        At his death, Mr. Stone held the titles of founder-chairman and chairman of the executive committee, which he assumed in 1992. No longer active in day-to-day operations, he still went to the office frequently.
        Still based in Cleveland, American Greetings most recently listed its annual sales as $2.2 billion, with more than 21,000 employees sending its products to 75 countries around the world. It ranks second after the industry leader, Hallmark. Besides greeting cards its products now include gift wrapping, tags, seals, ribbons, party goods, posters, candles, gifts, display fixtures and nonprescription eyeglasses.
        Mr. Stone was active in many civic and Jewish organizations. He was chairman of the Hebrew Academy of Cleveland, a trustee of the Simon Wiesenthal Center for Holocaust Studies and a vice president of the American Association for Jewish Education and the American Friends of Boys Town Jerusalem.
        Mr. Stone is survived by his wife of 23 years, Helen Sill Stone; three daughters and a son from his earlier marriage, Hensha S. Gansbourg, of New York, Myrna S. Tatar, of San Francisco, Judith S. Weiss, of Cleveland, and Neil, of Idaho; his brother Harry H., of Cleveland, a company director; a sister, Bernice; 15 grandchildren; and 34 great-grandchildren. His first wife and the mother of his children, Beatrice Weider Stone, died 24 years ago.
      