
        Nathan Kroll, a film producer whose background as a Juilliard-trained violinist informed his award-winning television documentaries about the cellist Pablo Casals, the violinist Jascha Heifetz and the tenor Luciano Pavarotti, among other musical subjects, died last Thursday after a long illness. He was 88 and lived in Tarrytown, N.Y.
        Mr. Kroll's early years would seem to have presaged a traditional performing career in classical music. Born on Nov. 5, 1911, in New York City, he was inspired by the street musicians he heard from his apartment window to ask his parents for a violin when he was only 4.
        He had to content himself with a cardboard cutout toy violin until his fifth birthday, when he was given the real thing, in miniature. At 12 he made his debut at Aeolian Hall in New York. At 14 he began studying violin and composition at the Juilliard Graduate School on East 52nd Street, the tuition-free branch of the two institutions that would become the Juilliard School of Music in 1936. By the late 1920's he was touring under the management of Arthur Judson.
        The Depression brought his fledgling career to a standstill. Mr. Kroll began a new, more remunerative facet of his work, conducting jazz orchestras and composing and conducting music for radio broadcasts and films, with a break to serve in the military during World War II.
        His first project as a film producer was a portrait of Martha Graham at work, ''A Dancer's World,'' made for educational television. His breakthrough came in 1960 with the ''Pablo Casals Master Class'' series. Mr. Kroll edited down thousands of feet of film showing Casals working with students from the University of California at Berkeley into an hourlong introductory program and 24 half-hour follow-ups.
        Subsequent projects included television films of renowned musicians offering master classes, including Heifetz, the guitarist Andres Segovia and Mr. Pavarotti (''Pavarotti at Juilliard''), as well as an eight-part series with the soprano Joan Sutherland, ''Who's Afraid of Opera?''; ''Toscanini: A 100th Birthday Celebration''; and ''Music at Marlboro,''  In 1964 he produced a feature-length documentary film on a nonmusical subject: ''The Guns of August,'' based on Barbara W. Tuchman's history of the outbreak of World War I.
        Mr. Kroll is survived by his wife, Claire Merrill Kroll; Stephen Robert Kroll of Adamante, Vt., his son from an earlier marriage to the concert agent Lucy Kroll; a stepdaughter, Lucy Merrill Cotter of Sherman Oaks, Calif.; a stepson, Philip Merrill of Pasadena, Calif.; and three step-grandchildren.
        In 1989 Mr. Kroll donated tapes of his films and radio programs to the Museum of Television and Radio in Manhattan. In a commemorative booklet published by the museum at the time, the critic Howard Kissel wrote that Mr. Kroll ''left a legacy of a different virtuosity than what he envisioned as a violinist 60 years ago.''
      