
        Leon A. Harris Jr., a biographer and a former department store executive, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Dallas. He was 74.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Jane Wolfe.
        After graduating from Harvard University in 1947, Mr. Harris began working at A. Harris & Company, a family-owned department store founded in 1886 in Dallas by his grandfather Adolph Harris. He held several positions, including marketing director, before being named executive vice president in 1950. A. Harris was sold in 1961 to Federated Department Stores, which owns Macy's and Bloomingdale's, and later the store was merged with other Federated stores.
        Mr. Harris, who received a bachelor's degree at Harvard, published a children's book, ''The Night Before Christmas -- in Texas,'' a parody of the Clement Clark Moore poem, in 1951. He turned to writing full time after the family business was sold. ''The Fine Art of Political Wit,'' which traced the history of political humor since the 18th century, was published in 1964. He followed with two biographies: ''Only to God: The Extraordinary Life of Godfrey Lowell Cabot,'' about the industrialist and philanthropist, which was published in 1967, and ''Upton Sinclair, American Rebel,'' about the writer and social reformer, published in 1975.
        In 1979, Mr. Harris wrote a history of some of America's most successful Jewish businessmen, ''Merchant Princes: An Intimate History of Jewish Families Who Built Great Department Stores.'' In a review in The New York Times, Christopher Lehmann-Haupt described the book as a freewheeling narrative that used the stories of the Filenes of Boston, the Riches of Atlanta, the Rosenwalds of Chicago and the Marcuses of Dallas, among others, to explore Jewish life, philanthropy and anecdotes. The book, the review said, was ''sturdy enough to hold regional history, gossip, personal reminiscences and a history of the art and science of department-store merchandising.''
        Mr. Harris also wrote several other children's books.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his 2-year-old daughter, Lee Harris III, and a nephew, Thomas Harris Hartman of New York.
      