
        John Morris Rankin, a master fiddler and pianist who helped spark a North American renaissance of Celtic music and culture, died on Sunday on his native Cape Breton Island in Nova Scotia when his truck skidded off a twisting coastal highway and plunged into the icy sea. He was 40.
        Mr. Rankin's son, Michael, and two of his friends survived the accident. An investigation is under way to determine if Mr. Rankin died from drowning or from impact injuries.
        From a humble start selling tape cassettes from the trunk of a family car in the late 1980's, Mr. Rankin led his family group, the Rankins, to sell two million records, introducing to a new generation the joys of Gaelic song and music. After a decade that included hundreds of concerts around the world, the five Rankin siblings dissolved the group last summer so they could spend more time with their families.
        Near dawn on Sunday, Mr. Rankin was driving his son, Michael, and two other boys to a hockey game when he swerved his Toyota 4-Runner to avoid a pile of road salt in the road, the police said. As the truck sailed off a 75-foot high cliff and crashed into a cove, Mr. Rankin shouted to the boys to get out. The boys, unhurt, broke a window and swam ashore. Michael Rankin, 15, then clawed his way up the cliff, a precipice so steep that volunteer firemen who retrieved Mr. Rankin's body later said they could only climb it with ropes.
        Growing up in the tiny, isolated Cape Breton village of Mabou, Mr. Rankin came to the attention of the outside world in 1973 when he was featured in a Canadian Broadcasting Corporation documentary called ''The Vanishing Cape Breton Fiddler.'' Time proved the title inaccurate, but the closing scene proved prophetic. In the shot, John Morris Rankin, then 13, walked down a Mabou back road with the legendary Cape Breton fiddler, Dan R. MacDonald. Conveying the human link of musical traditions between the generations, Mr. MacDonald, now deceased, placed his hand on the young fiddler's shoulder.
        In the 1970's, the Gaelic and Highland Scottish traditions preserved by older people in rural Cape Breton were definitely not in fashion, and John Morris routinely hid his fiddle on the way to school.
        In the late 80's, Mr. Rankin, already a professional musician, organized the Rankin Family, drawing on the Gaelic singing talents of three of his sisters, Cookie, Heather and Raylene, and the guitar and song-writing talents of a brother, Jimmie. They melded pop rhythms and lyrics with ancient Highland Scottish musical traditions, cutting their first album, ''The Rankin Family,'' in 1989.
        With the help of their mother, Kathleen, they managed to sell close to 100,000 albums independently before signing a multi-album deal with EMI in 1992. Renamed the Rankins, the group made six more albums, ending with ''Uprooted'' last year. They won five Juno Awards, Canada's equivalent of the Grammy.
        The oldest of 12 children, Mr. Rankin was the group's unofficial bandleader and arranger. A quiet man, he played behind his more flamboyant siblings on the front line. But when he stepped into the spotlight, he enchanted audiences with his slow and haunting fiddle solos.
        The Rankins' success drew Cape Breton music into the mainstream, sparking revived interest in Celtic culture. Exposing modern Scotland to this sometimes forgotten Scottish settlement on Canada's eastern fringe, their music prompted many Scots to visit Cape Breton in the 1990's, seeking traditions that have petered out at home but have survived in a corner of North America where every home seems to have a fiddle player and where children learn to dance as soon as they can walk.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Rankin  is survived by his wife, Sally, and a  daughter, Molly.
      