
        Phillip Glasier, who helped revive the ancient sport of falconry, writing what some consider its bible and starting the National Birds of Prey Center in Britain, died at his home in Gloucestershire on Sept. 11. He was 84.
        Mr. Glasier, one of only a handful of falconers in Britain when he started out, used his expertise as a photographer and writer to protect and promote birds of prey and breathe new life into the sport he loved.
        Falconry reached its greatest popularity in medieval and early modern Europe. The falconer releases the bird to attack its quarry in midflight and then deliver it intact to his hand. The bird, when hooded, sits silently on the falconer's wrist.
        The center that Mr. Glasier and his family started in 1967 in Clifford Mesne in Gloucestershire, called the Falconry Center at the time, now houses more than 300 birds of 80 species and counts as one of its successes the first artificial insemination of a golden eagle. Not the least of its roles is that its employees are prepared to answer all manner of questions from the public about birds of prey and more, including how to stop crows from removing the putty from windows.
        Obituaries in English newspapers, including The Times of London and The Daily Telegraph, compared Mr. Glasier's accomplishments with birds of prey to those of the British conservationist Sir Peter Scott in protecting waterfowl.
        But it was the exhilaration of an ancient form of hunting that captivated him. He wrote in ''Falconry and Hawking,'' which was first published in 1979 and came to be called the bible of falconry, about Aristotle's writings on a form of hawking, and about eighth-century Saxon monks' complaints that hawking parties trampled their fields.
        Falconry had all but died out when he was young, but he was lucky enough to learn about it from an uncle, Charles Knight, a renowned ornithologist and falconer and an early maker of documentary films. Mr. Knight traveled the world to lecture, always with his golden eagle, Mr. Ramshaw, perched on his fist. From Mr. Knight, the youth learned the venerable skills of hooding a falcon and attaching jesses, the straps fastened around a falcon's leg with rings to hold a leash.
        So began a love affair. ''To train one's own bird, fly it free and see it come back to one is indeed a 'sweet satisfaction,' '' he wrote in ''Falconry and Hawking.'' ''To breed your bird and then do all this, that is the best of all.''
        Phillip Edward Brougham Glasier was born in Southwest London on Dec. 22, 1915. The son of a land agent, he grew up in Kent and Suffolk. He attended a number of schools, but he said his strongest influence was his uncle, who once left him in charge of an African hawk eagle while away on an expedition. It traveled to and from school by train, perched on the luggage rack, not too unlike the student sorcerers' messenger owls in the Harry Potter books.
        ''Knight was a perfectionist, with little patience for mistakes,'' John K. Terres, an author and former falconer, wrote in The New York Times in 1964 in a review of Mr. Glasier's book ''As the Falcon Her Bells.'' ''Under his stern guidance, Glasier tells, step by step, of the capture, training and thrilling flights of his falcons in pursuit of rooks (crows), partridges, magpies and lesser game.''
        Mr. Glasier was a tank instructor in the Royal Armored Corps in World War II. After the war he opened a photographic studio in Salisbury, specializing in bird photographs.
        In the early 1950's he moved to the Black Isle, near the Scottish Highlands, to develop his skills as falconer. There he became a personal falconry trainer to the film actor James Robertson Justice, whose later work included the role of Lord Scrumptious in ''Chitty Chitty Bang Bang.''
        After a trip to Afghanistan to photograph eagles, Mr. Glasier moved to Gloucestershire in 1966. He arrived with 12 birds, and six months later opened the Falconry Center with 60 birds. At the time, many naturalists doubted that birds of prey could be bred in captivity, but in 1968 the center announced the birth of kestrels, the first of a string of breeding successes that includes Indian tawny eagles, African pygmy falcons and American black vultures.
        By breeding hunting birds, Mr. Glasier proved that hunting with raptors need not remove rare birds from the wild.
        ''By his own skill and perseverance, he succeeded in breeding a number of world firsts and laid the groundwork for today, when falconers breed all the hawks and falcons they need,'' Eric Hosking, the natural history photographer, wrote in his introduction to ''A Hawk in the Hand,'' Mr. Glasier's 1990 book.
        A result was that falconry made something of a comeback in Britain, and Mr. Glasier found himself returning annually to Scotland in hunting season to fly birds of prey for Prince Philip and Prince Charles, among others. A similar boomlet has occurred in the United States, where the North American Falconers Association now claims 3,000 members.
        Mr. Glasier also used falcons to remove birds from British airfields, where they were endangering planes, as well as to chase pigeons from shopping malls. He rented out raptors for commercials for products from forklifts to Champagne.
        Meanwhile, the mission of the Falconry Center became broader in both species and scope, necessitating its name change to the National Bird of Prey Center in 1979. Mr. Glasier's daughter Jemima Parry-Jones took the reins in 1982, allowing her father to retire to Scotland to fly birds for pleasure. In addition to her, he is survived by two daughters with his second wife, who was known as Bill and who died two years ago. Other survivors include two sons and a daughter from his first marriage, to Valerie Pedlar, which ended in divorce.
        The family's birds often became friends and housemates.And deer, ferrets and other animals were also more than welcome.
        Mr. Hosking, the natural history photographer, wrote of a visit to the rambling farmhouse. There was no response to his knock, so he ventured in, and was suddenly confronted by a deer bounding up the stairs. He later wrote that Mr. Glasier's wife, Bill, addressed the ''bloody deer,'' telling it: ''You know you're not allowed upstairs. Get down, there.''
        ''And in the same breath:
        'Oh, hello, would you like a cup of tea?' ''
      