
        Yehuda Amichai, the Israeli poet who distilled his experience -- and his nation's -- into highly metaphorical verse written in Hebrew and translated into more than 25 languages, died yesterday in Jerusalem. He was 76.
        He died of a rare form of lymphoma, said Stanley Moss, a poet and close friend.
        In his poetry Mr. Amichai often wrote about love and loss and, in recent years, about aging and mortality, all of it linked by his gift for poeticizing the particular: the localized object or image in everyday life. From his point of view, the role of a poet was ''to name each thing, each feeling, each experience, plainly and accurately, without pretense.''
        In Mr. Amichai's verse, said the critic Robert Alter, ''There is a tension between personal experience and the violent pressures of history.'' Mr. Alter continued.  ''Writing about himself, he is also writing about Everyman.''
        Mr. Amichai's work derived from his own background as a young man fleeing from Nazi Germany to Palestine in the 1930's, as a soldier who fought in the British Army in 1948 and in the Israeli forces, and as a husband and father and lover articulating his feelings and dreams. He was firmly rooted in contemporary Israel and fully aware of the politics that surrounded him, but he often treated it by indirection and had been known to write love poetry in time of war.
        Reviewing ''The Selected Poetry of Yehuda Amichai'' in The New York Times Book Review in 1986, Edward Hirsch said, ''Mr. Amichai is an essentially autobiographical poet with the rare ability to characterize the complex fate of the modern Israeli, the private individual inevitably affected by the public realm of war, politics and religion.''
        He said that Mr. Amichai was like one of Emerson's ''representative men,'' updated and living in Jerusalem, a prophet who ''speaks in the guise of an ordinary Jewish citizen concerned with his people and his place.''
        In Hebrew and in translation, Mr. Amichai's work is remarkably accessible, imaginative, unburdened by artificiality and often almost conversational. As a result, he was that exception: a poet who is read by a wide public and not just by academics and other poets. His books sold about 15,000 copies on average in Israel, comparable to best-seller status in larger countries. Still, in the manner of a poet, for many years he had to support himself by teaching.
        His celebrity in Israel followed him down the street. Walking in Jerusalem, his home for many years, he would be recognized and accorded the attention that in the United States might be reserved for a movie star or athlete. None of the public attention seemed to turn his head. In person, he seemed as unpretentious as his poetry. ''The reason a poet is a poet is to write poems, not to advertise himself as a poet,'' he said.
        In a profile of Mr. Amichai in The New York Times Magazine in 1986, Mr. Alter said about his work, ''His Hebrew is often rich in soundplay, wordplay, allusion and other traits of virtuosity that are not readily evident in translation, and his language is a shifting mixture of colloquial and literary.''
        But because he was popular in so many countries Eastern and Western, intellectuals in his own land sometimes regarded him with skepticism, as if his popularity negated his authenticity as an artist. In the larger world of poetry, his position is secure.
        Mr. Alter said that Mr. Amichai saw no contradiction in a poet's also being a man of action. and that a symbolic tie between the two can be discovered in his use of poetic metaphor as a ''weapon in the hand-to-hand struggle with reality.''
        Mr. Amichai said he believed that metaphor ''is the great human revolution, at least on a par with the invention of the wheel.'' Words were his arsenal, as in his ''Poem of My Time'':
        Is there in this land a stone that was never thrown
        and never built and never overturned
        and never uncovered and never discovered
        and never screamed from a wall and never discarded by the builders
        and never closed on top of a grave and never lay under lovers
        and never turned into a cornerstone?
        In an interview with Lawrence Joseph published in The Paris Review, Mr. Amichai said, ''A poet's state of mind is seeing the world with a kind of double exposure, seeing undertones and overtones, seeing the world as it is.'' Irony was an essential element in his poetry, a way, he said, of ''always trying to see another side.' '' That was how he lived, he said, ''focusing, refocusing and juxtaposing different shifting and changing perspectives.''
        Describing his process, he said he combined ''different, sometimes competing, language and forms.'' Before he began writing, he said he thought about the shape the poem would take ''almost visually, like a piece of sculpture -- I can touch it.'' Then he would fill it in ''with my subjects, from the entire world of my subjects.'' Freely mixing techniques and forms, he wrote poetry that ranged from terse four-line images to sonnets to the epic ''Travels of a Latter Day Benjamin of Tudela.''
        For him, time was the most important dimension in his writing: ''Time is entirely relative, relational. The phrase I like to use to describe my sense of time -- a play on comparative literature -- is comparative time. Time, for me, is imaginatively comparative and continuous; I have an almost physical sense of memory recall. . . . It's easy for me to shortcut back to my childhood, my adolescence, my wars.''
        Yehuda Amichai was born in Wurzburg, Germany, on May 3, 1924. The Amichais were an Orthodox Jewish family living in a mostly Catholic environment. After immigrating with his parents to Palestine in 1936, he lived in Jerusalem. After his high school graduation, he was drafted into the British army and served four years with the Palestinian brigade during World War II. Stationed in Egypt, he accidently came across an anthology of modern British poetry that included poems by Dylan Thomas, T. S. Eliot and W. H. Auden. Their work had a great impact on him. As he said, ''I think that was when I began to think seriously about writing poetry.''
        After the war he taught school in Israel and, in 1948, joined the Haganah underground. He fought in the Israeli-Arab wars of 1948, 1956 and 1973. His adult life was caught up in Israel's struggle to survive and endure and the images of war appear frequently in his work. In his poem ''Seven Laments for the War Dead'' he wrote that everything is written in three languages:  ''Hebrew, Arabic and Death. ''
        While teaching, he also studied the Bible and literature at Hebrew University and wrote poetry. In 1951 he showed some of his poems to a professor who submitted one to a magazine. It was accepted. Then he won first prize in a poetry competition. His first book of poetry, ''Now and in Other Days'' was published in 1955. The book was attacked by some Israeli critics, partly because of his use of colloquial language, but gradually it became a success, and soon his career was begun.
        In the mid-1950's after a trip to the United States, he wrote two essays, one about hearing Auden read his poetry at the 92nd Street Y. Later he and Auden became friends. He began writing short stories, publishing a volume in 1959. Other books followed in Hebrew but it was not until 1968 that his work was published in English, beginning with his first novel ''Not of This Time, Not of This Place.''
        Mr. Amichai's breakthrough with English readers came in the late 1970's with two volumes translated by the author and Ted Hughes. It was Mr. Hughes, he said, ''who put me into orbit.'' With Mr. Hughes's encouragement, he was invited to read his poetry at the Spoleto arts festival, and soon found himself in the company of Auden, Pound and others, ''reading with poets whom I had admired for years.''
        Soon the admiration was mutual, as his work became recognized throughout the world. Although he often taught and gave poetry readings in the United States, he remained an active Israeli citizen who never ignored the politics of his country. ''You have to acknowledge political realities,'' he said in the interview in The Paris Review.  ''There's an old Jewish saying, 'If you meet the devil, take him with you into the synagogue.' Try to take the evil of politics into yourself, to influence it imaginatively, to give it human shape. This is my attitude toward politics.''
        For him, all poetry was political. ''This is because real poems deal with a human response to reality, and politics is part of reality, history in the making. Even if a poet writes about sitting in a glass house drinking tea, it reflects politics.''
        In addition to his many books of poetry and his short stories, Mr. Amichai published a volume of plays, two novels and three books for children. A new book of verse, ''Opened Closed Opened,'' was recently published by Harcourt Brace. In it, he said, ''God is change and Death is his prophet.''
        He is survived by his wife Chana, two sons, Roni and David, and a daughter Emanuela, all of Israel.
        Since the 1960's he lived in the Yemin Moshe district of Jerusalem. When he moved there, it bordered no man's land, but, he said, it was the only place he could afford. In recent years, it has become an exclusive residential community. The community may have changed, but the resident had  remained the same, a man of composure and compassion, who quietly helped to shape the literature of his country, a cafe poet who found and earned an international readership.
        In ''Gods Come and Go, Prayers Remain Forever,'' a poem written in 1994, he wrote:
        Tombstones crumble, words come and go, words are forgotten,
        The lips that uttered them turned to dust,
        Tongues die like people, other tongues come to life,
        Gods in the sky change, gods come and go,
        Prayers remain forever.
        Metaphor as a Weapon in 'a Struggle With Reality'
        God takes pity on kindergarten children,
        Less on schoolchildren.
        On grown-ups, He won't take pity anymore.
        He leaves them alone.
        Sometime they have to crawl on all fours
        In the blazing sand,
        To get to the first aid station
        Dripping blood.
        Maybe He will take pity and cast His shadow
        On those who truly love
        As a tree on someone sleeping on the bench
        On a boulevard.
        Maybe we too will spend on them
        The last coins of favor
        Mother bequeathed us,
        So their bliss will protect us
        Now and in other days.  From ''God Takes Pity on Kindergarten  Children'' (''Now and in Other Days,'' 1956)
        In the place where I never was
        I never shall be.
        The place where I was, as if
        I never was there. Human beings wander away
        From the place of their birth
        And far from the words their own
        Mouth uttered,
        No more within the promises
        That were promised.
        And they eat standing up, and die sitting,
        And remember lying.
        And what I shall never return
        To see, I must love for ever.
        Only a stranger will return to my place. But I shall
        Inscribe the things again, like Moses,
        After breaking the first tablets.  From ''The Place Where I Never Was'' (''Poems, 1948-1952'')
        I was born in 1924. If I were a violin my age
        I wouldn't be very good. As a wine I would be splendid
        Or altogether sour. As a dog I would be dead. As a book
        I would begin to be expensive or thrown out by now.
        As a forest I would be young, as a machine ridiculous,
        And as a human being I'm very tired.
        I was born in 1924. When I think about humanity
        I just think about those born in my year.
        Their mothers gave birth with my mother,
        Wherever they were, in hospitals or in dark flats.
        On this day, my birthday, I would like
        To say a great prayer for you,
        Whose load of hopes and disappointments
        Pulls your life downward,
        Whose deeds diminish
        And whose gods increase,
        You are all brothers of my hope and companions of my  despair.
        May you find the right rest,
        The living in their life, the dead in their death.
        He who remembers his childhood better
        Than others is the winner,
        If there are any winners at all.
        From ''1924'' (''An Hour of Grace,'' 1983)
      