
        Carl T. Rowan, the crusading journalist, best-selling author and defender of affirmative action, proud to call himself a liberal, died today.
        He was 75 and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Rowan, who had been hospitalized for various illnesses in recent weeks, died in the intensive care unit of Washington Hospital Center, said LeRoy Tillman, a hospital spokesman, said.
        Born on Aug. 11, 1925, in Rav enscroft, Tenn., a dying coal-mining town in the heart of Jim Crow country, Mr. Rowan grew up poor during the Great Depression.
        In his autobiography, ''Breaking Barriers,'' he wrote of living with ''no electricity, no running water, no toothbrushes'' and ''no telephone, no radio and no regular inflow of money.''
        He scrubbed porches in a tuberculosis hospital to earn money to attend Tennessee State College in Nashville. There, he passed a national competition and went on to become one of the first 15 African-Americans to be commissioned officers in the United States Navy during World War II.
        The commission, he said, changed his life because he was able to use the G.I. Bill of Rights to get a college degree in mathematics from Oberlin College in Ohio and a master's degree in journalism from the University of Minnesota.
        His first job in journalism was as a copy editor at The Minneapolis Tribune, and as a young reporter, he covered the civil rights battles in the South, including the Supreme Court's decision requiring school desegregation. At the time, he wrote in his autobiography, ''no more than five blacks could claim to be general assignment reporters, and few were writing anything serious about the American social, political or economic scene.''
        His passionate reporting on race relations made him one of the most highly visible and vocal black men in America and prompted President John F. Kennedy to appoint him deputy assistant secretary of state with the assignment to help integrate the State Department. He was also a delegate to the United Nations during the Cuban missile crisis, ambassador to Finland in the Kennedy administration and director of the United States Information Agency in the Johnson administration, which in 1964 made him the highest-ranked black in American government.
        Mr. Rowan returned to journalism in Washington in 1965, making race a prominent theme of his columns and television commentaries.
        ''First, I see myself simply as a newspaperman and commentator,'' Mr. Rowan once told an interviewer. ''I inform people and expose them to a point of view they wouldn't get. I work against the racial mind-set of most of the media.''
        He liked to describe himself as ''an independent non-Republican.''
        In 1987, after he learned about a local high school where black students were embarrassed to stand as their names were called in an honor roll ceremony, he created a scholarship program called Project Excellence to encourage blacks to finish high school and go on to college. Over the years, the program disbursed millions of dollars in scholarships and teamed up with the Freedom Forum to award additional ''instant scholarships'' worth millions more.
        Among his eight books are biographies of Jackie Robinson (''Wait Till Next Year'') and Thurgood Marshall (''Dream Makers, Dream Breakers'') and ''The Coming Race War in America,'' a book that was praised when it was published in 1996 for its predictions about the disastrous state of race relations in America.
        In 1988, Mr. Rowan, in his columns a firm advocate of strict handgun control, found himself in the center of a gun controversy when he fired a shot using an unregistered pistol to wound a teen-age intruder in his backyard. He was arrested and tried, but argued that he had the right to use whatever means necessary to protect himself and his family. The jury deadlocked and the judge declared a mistrial.
        Three years ago, his columns denouncing financial malfeasance on the part of Benjamin Chavis, then national chairman of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, contributed to Mr. Chavis's resignation and a change in leadership at the organization.
        Mr. Rowan's column, published three times a week, was nationally syndicated by King Features and appeared in about 60 newspapers. The winner of many major journalism awards, he retired in 1996 from the Washington public affairs program ''Inside Washington'' after 29 years.
        He is survived by his wife, Vivien; two sons, Carl Jr., a lawyer, and Jeffrey, a clinical psychologist, both of Washington; a daughter, Barbara Rowan Jones of Clifton, Va., a former journalist; and four grandchildren.
        In a 1997 interview with The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Mr. Rowan said, ''Racism is still very much a factor in America.'' It ''is part of the American culture,'' he added.''And there are still millions of Americans who believe blacks are inferior.''
        Asked which of his accomplishments made him most proud, Mr. Rowan replied, ''Well, the thing I am most proud of is that if I walk down the street and meet somebody who is poor, black, Hispanic, they say, 'You never sold out.' ''
      