
        James Elliott, an innovative museum director and curator and an amateur filmmaker, died Thursday at his home, a houseboat, in Sausalito, Calif. He was 76.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Elliott was known for a string of impressive proteges in the museum field. ''Jim was a consummate museum person -- a diplomat, guardian and scholar,'' said Alanna Heiss, director of the P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center in Long Island City, Queens. ''He generously shared his expertise with those of us whose training was less academic than his, and he also sought ways to integrate new art into the classic, formidable museum structure.''
        He also had a penchant for unusual living quarters. While working as curator at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, he lived in an apartment above the carousel on the Santa Monica Pier.
        Over the course of nearly 40 years, Mr. Elliott, who was born and reared in Medford, Ore., worked at or ran four prominent American museums, beginning with the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis in 1953. Before embarking on that path, he had earned a degree in biology from Willamette University in 1947, changed his mind about becoming a doctor and spent a year in Paris, where he studied at the Sorbonne and the Ecole du Louvre. In addition, he had earned a master's degree in art history at Harvard (his thesis was on Bonnard), taken the Fogg Art Museum's legendary museum training course and, back in Paris on a Fulbright in 1952-53, written art reviews for the International Herald Tribune.
        He left the Walker in 1956 for the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, where he served as assistant chief curator, curator of modern art and chief curator during a period of expansion. In 1965 he mounted the inaugural exhibiton for the museum's new building, a large Bonnard retrospective organized with the Museum of Modern Art. From 1966 to 1976 he was director of the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, where he oversaw a $4.5 million expansion and founded the museum's well-known Matrix series for the purpose of showcasing work by living artists on a continuing basis. Assigned its own galleries within the museum, it was the first such program in the country.
        In 1976, Mr. Elliott was named director of the Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive, where he established a second Matrix series in 1978, expanded the collection and oversaw an ambitious exhibition program that included large shows of Franz Marc, Richard Avedon, Juan Gris and Jonathan Borofsky. Curators he hired while at Berkeley included David A. Ross, director of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art; Michael Auping, now chief curator at the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth; Mark Rosenthal, now international director of 19th- and 20th-century art at Christie's; Lawrence Rinder, now curator of contemporary art at the Whitney Museum of American Art; and Constance Lewallen, senior curator at Berkeley. He retired in 1988 and was named director emeritus. In that capacity he organized a retrospective of the work of James Lee Byars at the museum in 1990.
        Introduced to filmmaking by the artist Bruce Conner and the designers Charles and Ray Eames, Mr. Elliott began making short, silent super-8 movies of social gatherings, starting in 1972 with a small cocktail party at the Manhattan apartment of Alexander Liberman, artistic director of Conde Nast. Thereafter he concentrated on the midday meal, because of available light, and the series became known as the ''Lunch Movies.'' He once said that he was trying to produce an ''interior view of a social event that normally isn't photographed,'' and frequently handed the camera to other guests so that people would feel at ease.
        Some of the participants in the ''Lunch Movies'' were the artists Andy Warhol, Donald Judd and Philip Guston, the designer Mary McFadden and the Warhol superstar Candy Darling. Mr. Elliott stopped making the films in 1983 when several were stolen.
        Mr. Elliott married Judith Algar in 1966, an event distinguished by a plaster wedding cake made by Claes Oldenburg. They were divorced in 1976. He is survived by a daughter, Arabel Elliott of Chapel Hill, N.C.; a son, Jakob, of San Francisco; two sisters, Joan Ellis and Amy Barnum, both of Medford; and a grandson.
      