
        Theodore W. Trautwein, the New Jersey judge who sent a reporter to jail in 1978 in a celebrated case that tested the boundaries of press freedom and fair trials, died on Aug. 17 in Hollywood, Fla., where he had lived for the last two years. He was 80.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, Ted.
        In early 1978, M. A. Farber, a reporter for The New York Times, was called to Superior Court in Hackensack, N.J., to testify in the trial of a 51-year-old surgeon accused of murdering three patients at a small hospital in nearby Oradell by injecting them with lethal doses of the muscle relaxant curare. Front-page articles by Mr. Farber in 1976 had led the Bergen County prosecutor's office to reopen the case, which it had abandoned 10 years earlier, and exhume the patients' bodies to test for the drug.
        Though he answered questions from lawyers defending the surgeon, Dr. Mario E. Jascalevich, Mr. Farber refused to turn over thousands of pages of notes demanded by the defense, saying the First Amendment compelled him to protect those who had talked to him in confidence. The trial judge, William J. Arnold, turned the matter over to Judge Trautwein, who as assignment judge supervised all the Bergen County civil, criminal and municipal courts.
        On July 24, 1978, before a courtroom packed with journalists and spectators (including Dr. Jascalevich), Judge Trautwein found Mr. Farber and The Times guilty of criminal contempt and sentenced the reporter to jail for six months and the paper to fines of $5,000 a day until the notes were turned over.
        A beefy, imposing judge who was all business on the bench and who favored plain English over legalese, he later told Mr. Farber, ''You chose to put your privilege and your concept of your constitutional rights above the rights of the people of this state and this defendant.''
        With time off for appeals, Mr. Farber wound up spending 40 days in the Bergen County Jail, one of the longest sentences ever served by an American reporter for refusing to testify about sources. Judge Trautwein freed him on Oct. 24, shortly before the jury acquitted Dr. Jascalevich after just three hours of deliberation.
        In upholding Judge Trautwein's action in August 1978, the New Jersey Supreme Court also overturned the state law shielding reporters from having to testify about their sources in criminal cases. The New Jersey Legislature rewrote the law to satisfy the court's objections, and the state continues to have one of the nation's strongest shield laws. In 1982 Mr. Farber and The Times were retroactively pardoned by Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, and the state repaid the paper $101,000 of the $285,000 it had paid in fines.
        The case, In re Farber, is still used in journalism and law schools. ''Farber's case roused journalists out of their complacency,'' said Jane E. Kirtley, a former director of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, who is now a professor of media ethics and law at the University of Minnesota. ''Going to jail for more than a month is significant in anyone's eyes.''
        In 1980 Judge Trautwein made a pivotal ruling in another closely watched murder case, when the State Parole Board asked him to set restitution payments so it could release Thomas Trantino, who was serving a life sentence for shooting two police officers to death in a Lodi nightclub in 1963. The judge refused, saying, ''It would be a gruesome, illogical, self-evident act of futility to order the restoration of the victims' lives.''
        Without the required restitution, the Parole Board never freed Mr. Trantino. His subsequent pleas for parole have all been denied, and still in prison at age 62, he is New Jersey's longest-serving inmate.
        Theodore Walter Trautwein was born on March 29, 1920, in Paramus, N.J. He graduated from Hackensack High School, where he was an all-star athlete, won a scholarship at Columbia University and was drafted as a pitcher by the St. Louis Cardinals. But as he later told an interviewer, he needed to earn money to help his struggling family, so he went to work as a stevedore. He attended the Merchant Marine Academy and served in the Navy in World War II. After the war he went to New York University and its law school. He became a lawyer in 1953 and a county judge in 1964.
        As a District Court judge in the 1960's and 70's, Judge Trautwein upheld laws that established state control over the Hackensack Meadowlands and financed the sports complex that brought major league football, basketball and hockey to New Jersey. He was promoted to the State Appellate Division in 1981.
        In addition to his son, Ted, of Cos Cob, Conn., he is survived by his wife of 45 years, Lorna; a daughter, Lorie Hayman of Hallandale, Fla.; and four grandchildren.
      