
        The sixth Duke of Sutherland, a Scottish landowner who held one of the largest private collections of old master paintings in the world, died on Thursday. He was 85 and lived on the family estate near St. Boswells, Scotland.
        The duke's collection, inherited down the line from a long list of wealthy and acquisitive ancestors,  comprised some 500 paintings, including Rembrandts, Poussins, Raphaels and Titians, many of which had been in the family for more than 200 years.
        It is unclear what will happen to the works, said a spokesman for the National Gallery of Scotland in Edinburgh, where 27 paintings from the collection were placed on permanent loan in the 1940's, with another one added in 1994. Francis Egerton, the duke's heir, a cousin who inherits his title and his estate, has not made his plans known.
        John Sutherland Egerton was born on May 10, 1915, into a world of privilege and great wealth. His ancestor the first Duke of Sutherland was one of the richest men in the world in the 19th century and put his family's already impressive art collection, some of which had belonged to Louis-Philippe, the Duc d'Orleans,  on view to the public in 1806.
        The duke, who was known as Lord Ellsemere until 1963, when he inherited the dukedom from his cousin Geordie, held many lesser titles. He was also the Marquess of Stafford, Earl Gower, Viscount Trentham, Viscount Brackley and Baron Gower.
        He was not, however, the Earl of Sutherland, a position inherited from the fifth Duke of Sutherland by another branch of his large and complicated family. Despite all his titles, he was too shy to ever take his seat in the House of Lords or enter much into public life.
        The duke was educated at Eton and at Trinity College, Cambridge, and parachuted into Crete with the  Royal Armored Corps in World War II. He was captured by the Germans  and spent several years in a succession of prison camps, an ordeal that increased his shyness and reticence.
        The family's proud art collection was kept in Bridgewater House, its London home, but was sent to Mertoun House, the estate on the Scottish Borders, in 1944 when the sixth duke inherited the artworks, along with the earldom of Ellesemere, from his father. Soon afterward, the gallery at Bridgewater was struck and devastated by German bombs. The sixth duke sold the house, overlooking Green Park, after the war to pay estate duties.
        When asked some years later how he had responded to this sudden inheritance, the duke merely said,  ''Responsibility.''
        The duke was forced to sell many of his family's treasures over the years to raise money. In the 1970's he sold a group of old master drawings at auction and later a number of works by Turner, Van Dyck and Reynolds.
        The duke took part in local politics, was a keen fishermen and maintained his family's tradition of racing and breeding racehorses.
        He never had children, and was married twice, to Lady Diana Percy, who died in 1978, and then to Evelyn Moubray, a former interior decorator who shared his love of fishing. She survives him.
      