
        Lawrence G. Hauck, a former news editor of The New York Times, died yesterday at a hospice in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 88 and lived in High Point, N.C.
        In almost three decades at The Times, Mr. Hauck oversaw a diverse array of the newspaper's operations, from managing United Nations reporting in Paris to directing coverage of the Republican and Democratic National Conventions in two election years.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Hauck was the editor of regional editions when The Times first experimented with remote makeup and printing for the Western United States and in Europe. Mr. Hauck oversaw the selection and editing of articles in New York that were sent by teletypewriter to both Paris and Los Angeles for printing. The Paris edition lasted until 1967, when it was merged with the Paris edition of The Herald Tribune into what then became The International Herald Tribune.
        The Los Angeles edition, distributed in 13 Western states, including Alaska and Hawaii, lasted for two years; it became a victim of production costs in the pre-computer era.
        Mr. Hauck joined the newspaper in 1948 as a copy editor on the foreign desk. Before that, he worked as a reporter and editor for Ohio newspapers and for The Associated Press.
        He was born on Aug. 11, 1912, in Fairview, Pa. At the time, the town had a population of 571. After graduating from Ohio University in 1933, he worked at a series of small Ohio newspapers, then at The Detroit Free Press, before joining The Associated Press.
        Mr. Hauck married Esther L. Kernan in 1941. The two later divorced, and Mr. Hauck married Ann Kinney McLean in 1964; Mrs. Hauck died in 1989.
        In World War II, Mr. Hauck became a Navy pilot, ending the war with the rank of lieutenant commander; he served in South America and in the Pacific.
        He returned to The Associated Press and covered the United Nations for two years. In 1948, he joined the foreign desk of The Times and oversaw a special operation set up to cover sessions of the United Nations General Assembly. In 1951, he moved to Paris when the General Assembly held its meeting there.
        In 1953, he joined the Washington bureau as a night news editor. Over the next decade, he also taught journalism at Brooklyn College and New York University.
        Mr. Hauck was promoted to news editor in 1976; he retired the next year.
        Throughout his career at The Times, Mr. Hauck wrote articles on subjects ranging from novels by Iris Murdoch to a trip to the Adriatic port town of Dubrovnik, then in Yugoslavia.
        After retirement, Mr. Hauck moved with his wife from the Upper West Side of Manhattan to Lake Worth, Fla. He moved to North Carolina three years ago.
        Mr. Hauck leaves no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  October 11, 2000, Wednesday  An obituary on Sept. 27 about Lawrence G. Hauck, a former news editor of The New York Times, referred incorrectly to his military service and omitted a survivor. Mr. Hauck served in air combat intelligence with the Navy in World War II; he was not a pilot. His sole immediate survivor is a daughter, Linda Lamb of Manhattan.
      