
        Adm. Horacio Rivero Jr., a former vice chief of naval operations and ambassador to Spain, died on Sunday at his home in Coronado, Calif. He was 90.
        Admiral Rivero was vice chief of naval operations from 1961 to 1968. A fluent Spanish-speaker who was born in Puerto Rico, he was the North Atlantic Treaty Organization's commander in chief in southern Europe from 1968 to 1972, when he retired from the Navy, and ambassador to Spain from 1972 to 1974.
        He was promoted in 1964 from vice admiral, with three stars, to admiral, with four stars, and is widely said to have been the United States Navy's first four-star admiral of Hispanic descent. David G. Farragut, whose father was an immigrant from Spain, was promoted to admiral in 1866, when the rank of four-star admiral did not exist, and is often cited as the Navy's first admiral of Hispanic ancestry.
        While Admiral Rivero held the southern European command, he directed the land, sea and air forces of five nations deployed in the Mediterranean area: Italy, Greece, Turkey, Britain and the United States. He declared in 1971 that any withdrawal of United States troops from West Germany could be considered by the NATO allies as ''a first step in a continuing process'' that might in time affect the strength of the United States Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean. At the time, some 215,000 of the 310,000 American troops in Europe were stationed in West Germany.
        In the summer of 1962 the Soviet Union decided secretly to set up ballistic missiles in Cuba. On Oct. 15, 1962, Vice Admiral Rivero was given command of the United States Atlantic Fleet's amphibious force. On Oct. 22, 1962, in the Cuban missile crisis, President John F. Kennedy publicly denounced the secret building of missile launching sites on Cuba, which had been detected by American reconnaissance flights. Kennedy imposed a naval blockade on Cuba.
        Admiral Rivero was born in Ponce, P.R., and was appointed in 1927 to the United States Naval Academy, where he graduated in 1931 as one of the highest-ranking students in his class, and also the shortest. It has been said that the academy waived its minimum-height requirement in his case. His family says he was about five feet tall.
        At the academy, an officer had trouble reading the future admiral's name on his uniform and asked gruffly, ''What's your name? Rivets?'' And so young Horacio acquired the nickname Rivets.
        He went on to specialize in ordnance engineering and, subsequently, in nuclear weaponry.
        In World War II, he served in the Pacific as a gunnery officer and won a Bronze Star. For part of the Korean War, he was the commander of the amphibious transport Noble.
        In retirement he was on boards that advised the chief of naval operations, the Naval Academy and the Naval War College.
        The other decorations he won included three Distinguished Service Medals and the Legion of Merit. He also received medals from the governments of Brazil, Ecuador, Greece, Italy, Spain and Turkey.
        He married Hazel Hooper in 1941;  she died in 1997.
        He is survived by a daughter, Mary Lynn Hogan of Bellevue, Wash.; two grandchildren; two great-grandchildren, and two sisters, Sara and Lydia, both of Puerto Rico.
      