
        Frank Wills, the night watchman who discovered the 1972 Watergate burglary, which ultimately led to President Richard M. Nixon's resignation, died on Wednesday. He was 52 and lived in North Augusta, S.C.
        Mr. Wills, who struggled with celebrity and joblessness after being hailed as hero, died at University Hospital in Augusta, Ga. Friends told The Augusta Chronicle that he had suffered from a brain tumor.
        Mr. Wills, a 24-year-old security guard at the Watergate office building in Washington, was working the midnight shift on June 17, 1972. He discovered tape over a lock on a basement door, and thinking some worker had left it to make it easier to get in and out, he removed it.
        On another inspection round, he found the lock taped over again, and called the police. They locked the doors, turned off the elevators, and started checking darkened offices. About 2 a.m., at the sixth-floor headquarters of the Democratic National Committee, they found five men: Bernard L. Barker, Virgilio Gonzales, Eugenio Martinez, James W. McCord Jr. and Frank Sturgis.
        As Mr. Wills put it in a 1997 interview with The Florida Times-Union, ''When we turned the lights on, one person, then two persons, then three persons came out, and on down the line.''
        They five men were arrested for what Ronald L. Ziegler, Nixon's press secretary, tried to dismiss as a ''third-rate burglary.''
        The White House saw to their being paid hush money. But after the men were convicted before Judge John J. Sirica the next January, Mr. McCord began talking to prosecutors and told them that Nixon's campaign committee, the Committee for the Re-Election of the President, had been behind the burglary.
        When White House tapes made it clear that Nixon had played a central role in the coverup effort and he was  faced with impeachment and conviction, he resigned on Aug. 9, 1974.
        Mr. Wills quit his job soon after the burglary was discovered, believing that he did not get the raise he deserved. As the cover-up was unraveling in 1974, he made a little money talking about his historic moment, but his appearances cost him jobs because he was away from work. Most of the jobs paid not much more than minimum wage, although he did better than that when he played himself in the 1976 movie about Nixon's downfall, ''All the President's Men.''
        Mr. Wills was convicted of shoplifting in 1983. For some years he worked for the comedian Dick Gregory, who was promoting a diet product, and lived in the Bahamas. He moved back to North Augusta in 1990 to care for his mother, who died in 1992.
        He is survived by a daughter, Angel Brown of Aiken, S.C.
        Interviewed by The Washington Star-News on the day Nixon resigned, Mr. Wills said, ''We treat the president like a king, when he should be a man for all the people.''
        He complained that in Nixon's resignation speech the night before, the president failed to describe his role in the cover-up. ''I think he should have been a little more specific,'' Mr. Wills said.
        The Democratic National Committee gave Mr. Wills an award that fall, and Robert S. Strauss, its chairman, said he had played ''a unique role in the history of the nation.''
        But the most eloquent description of his role came when Representative James Mann of South Carolina, a Democrat casting a difficult vote for impeachment on the House Judiciary Committee, said on July 29, 1974: ''If there is no accountability, another president will feel free to do as he chooses. But the next time there may be no watchman in the night.''
      