
        Joseph A. Ball, a California trial attorney who was a senior counsel to the Warren Commission, which investigated the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, died on Sept. 21 in Long Beach, Calif. He was 97 and a longtime resident of Long Beach.
        At his death, Mr. Ball was a partner in the Los Angeles office of the Hawaii-based law firm Carlsmith Ball. He had been a partner in that firm and its predecessor in Los Angeles for five decades.
        Mr. Ball, who wrote crucial portions of the commission's report, was selected for the commission by United States Chief Justice Earl Warren, who had come to know him in California's political world.
        At that time, Mr. Ball was 61, a leading criminal lawyer, a member of the Supreme Court's Advisory Committee on the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure and a professor at the University of Southern California Law School.
        In January 1964, he was appointed as one of six senior lawyers who, each assisted by a younger colleague, were to handle one of six broad areas of inquiry.
        Mr. Ball and David W. Belin, a lawyer from Des Moines who was chosen to assist him, concentrated on the area they called ''the determination of who was the assassin of President Kennedy.''
        ''About 10,000 pieces of paper were then rolled into my office; the written reports of various investigative agencies, including the F.B.I., the Dallas Police and the Central Intelligence Agency,'' Mr. Ball wrote in 1993. ''During the first month of the investigation, we classified the information found in the reports by means of a card index system. This permitted the immediate retrieval of this information.'' Witnesses were also questioned during the inquiry.
        Mr. Belin wrote in 1971, after the Commission's report had been criticized, that ''despite the success of the assassination sensationalists in deceiving a large body of world opinion, the Warren Commission Report will stand the test of history for one simple reason: The ultimate truth beyond a reasonable doubt is that Lee Harvey Oswald killed both John F. Kennedy and J.D. Tippit on that tragic afternoon of Nov. 22, 1963.''
        Officer Tippit was a Dallas police officer whom Oswald shot shortly before shooting Kennedy.
        The commission's final report was sent to President Lyndon B. Johnson in September 1964.
        Mr. Ball was a president of the American College of Trial Lawyers and of the State Bar of California.
        The Joseph A. Ball Fund to benefit American Bar Association programs of public service and education and to honor excellent attorneys was named in his honor.
        He was born in Stuart, Iowa, and received a bachelor's decree in 1925 from Creighton University in Nebraska and his law degree in 1927 from the University of Southern California.
        He married Elinor Thon in 1931. After her death, he remarried. He also outlived his second wife, Sybil.
        He is survived by a daughter, JoEllen; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Ball recalled in 1993: ''In 1965, I called Chief Justice Warren on the telephone. I said, 'Chief, these critics of the report are guilty of misrepresentation and dishonest reporting.' He replied, 'Be patient; history will prove that we are right.' ''
        Correction:  October 3, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary on Saturday about Joseph A. Ball, who was a senior counsel to the Warren Commission, which concluded that Lee Harvey Oswald killed both President John F. Kennedy and J. D. Tippit, a Dallas police officer, misstated the order in which the two were shot. Officer Tippit was shot after President Kennedy.
      