
        Peter Gennaro, whose choreography for the 1977 hit musical ''Annie'' won him a Tony and whose dance sequences and dancing entertained millions on Perry Como's ''Kraft Music Hall'' in the 1960's, died on Thursday. Mr. Gennaro, who lived in Manhattan and maintained a home for many years in Oxford, Conn., was 80.
        Slight (5 foot 6 and 135 pounds) and lithe, Mr. Gennaro was a versatile dancer and choreographer who performed and created torrid jazz dances for Broadway, films and television, staged spectacles at Radio City Music Hall and devised works for the ballet.
        ''He was a wonderful jazz dancer,'' said Carrie d'Amboise, the wife of the dancer and choreographer Jacques d'Amboise and a longtime friend of Mr. Gennaro and his wife, Jean. ''It was quick, dynamic,'' she said of his style. ''He was very, very fast and had a lot of hip movement. He was the only one that danced like that, really.''
        As a performer, Mr. Gennaro captivated the critics in shows like ''Pajama Game'' in 1954 and ''Bells Are Ringing,'' with Judy Holliday, in 1956. As a choreographer he left his imprint on musicals from ''West Side Story'' (1957), which he choreographed with Jerome Robbins, to the Pulitzer Prize-winning ''Fiorello!'' (1959), ''The Unsinkable Molly Brown'' (1960), ''Mr. President'' (1962), ''Bajour'' (1964) and ''Jimmy'' (1969).
        Reviewing ''Fiorello!,'' which dealt with Fiorello H. LaGuardia in his ascent toward the New York mayoralty, Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times wrote, ''The sidewalk ballets that Peter Gennaro has composed are spontaneous and exhilarating, and the moody waltz toward the end of the first act has the simple beauty of a Gotham rite.''
        In Hollywood Mr. Gennaro recreated his Broadway choreography for the 1965 MGM version of ''Molly Brown,'' which starred Debbie Reynolds.
        In addition to his work from the ''Kraft Music Hall,'' he appeared on  other television shows like ''Your Hit Parade,'' ''The Steve Allen Show,'' ''The Andy Williams Show'' and with Ed Sullivan.
        Besides creating the dance routines for the Como show from 1960 to 1963 and directing its ensemble, the Peter Gennaro Dancers, Mr. Gennaro was called upon to coach its guest stars.
        ''He makes you catch on very quickly,'' Rita Moreno, one of the leads in the film version of ''West Side Story,'' said in 1961. ''I'm an actress, not a dancer, but I learned two whole dances from him today.''  One of the other dancers, breathing heavily as Mr. Gennaro demonstrated steps to music from the film,  said, ''It sure is fast.'' Mr. Gennaro nodded and smiled and said: ''Sure. It's wild. I want it to be that kind of wild.''
        Mr. Gennaro had been dancing up a storm from early in his childhood in Metairie, La., the New Orleans suburb where he was born on Nov. 23, 1919.
        The youngest of the three children of Sicilian immigrants, the former Conchetta Sabella and Gaetano Gennaro who owned a bar and restaurant, Mr. Gennaro was dancing for prizes by the time he was 3 or 4.
        ''His mother took him around to Charleston competitions in the early 20's,'' his daughter said. ''He would win sets of dishes.''
        So eager was Mr. Gennaro to enhance his talent that what little money he could make from picking cotton or mowing a family-owned ball field he put toward 50-cent lessons in tap and acrobatic dancing.
        Educated in local public schools, he enlisted in the Army in World War II, trained to become a company clerk and was ordered to China. But thanks to a mix-up in his papers, he found himself in India.
        ''I was a company clerk, but they didn't need company clerks in India,'' he said in an interview in The New York Mirror Magazine in 1962.
        Fate intervened in the form of the actor Melvyn Douglas. Mr. Gennaro said: ''Melvyn Douglas was there with an entertainment group, and when they asked me if I could dance, I said, 'Sure I can dance,' so I danced all over India for eight months. When I got out, I went back to my father's saloon. But I was a spoiled bartender. I quit after six months and went to New York to study.''
        He trained at the American Theater Wing and then enrolled under the G.I. Bill at the Katherine Dunham School in 1946.
        In 1947 he was hired as a dancer by the San Carlo Opera Company, a touring troupe based in Chicago. It was there that he met Jean Kinsella, a ballet dancer.
        ''We went around together for three months, while we traveled, and then the company disbanded,'' he said. Each was about to go home.
        ''But we decided that instead of separating, we should get married,''  he said. Mrs. Gennaro survives her husband, as do a daughter, Liza, who lives in Manhattan; a son, Michael,  executive director of the Steppenwolf Theater Company of Chicago; a brother, Emile, of Metairie; and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Gennaro faced his first New York audience in ''Make Mine Manhattan'' in 1948 and was later in musicals like ''Kiss Me, Kate'' (1948), ''Guys and Dolls'' (1950) and ''By the Beautiful Sea'' (1954).
        While in ''Guys and Dolls'' he said, he began giving dancing lessons to professional dancers and actors, one of whom was Grace Kelly.
        She encouraged a friend who was producing a musical to hire Mr. Gennaro to choreograph it.
        ''It was a flop,'' he said. ''But as a result, my career really began to move.''
        But another turning point he always remembered was the reaction to his performance with Carol Haney and Buzz Miller in the vaudeville-infused ''Steam Heat'' number choreographed by Bob Fosse for ''The Pajama Game'' in 1954.
        ''The critics,'' he said, ''noticed me for the first time.''
      