
        Harry Paster, who rose from a $60-a-week statistician to become a valued adviser to the most rich and powerful executives of Madison Avenue, died on Tuesday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 74.
        The cause was cancer, according to John Wolfe, senior vice president at the American Association of Advertising Agencies in New York, where Mr. Paster worked for 47 years.
        Mr. Paster, who spoke gruffly in a gravelly voice, was a Mr. Fix-it for the advertising agency business, serving as a management consultant for the members of the agency association, the principal industry trade organization. He was on call for agencies large and small, offering advice in realms like contracts, compensation, mergers and acquisitions, employee benefits and succession plans.
        ''People in the advertising business are in advertising, not in business,'' said Jonathan Bond, co-chairman of Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners in New York. ''He was the only person in the advertising business in business.''
        Mr. Paster served on the advisory board of Kirshenbaum Bond and numerous other agencies.
        ''He practiced tough love, and he meant both parts of it,'' said Marsha Lindsay, president and chief executive at Lindsay, Stone & Briggs, an agency in Madison, Wis., that began working with Mr. Paster in 1984.
        ''There were some tough times for us 10, 12 years ago,'' she added, ''and he was here for us.''
        Mr. Paster joined the agency association, also known as the Four A's, in 1948. He was promoted to vice president in 1966, senior vice president in 1978 and executive vice president in 1980.
        Mr. Paster offered his advice in person, taking road trips to meet with agency executives; on the telephone; and at workshops held during the annual meetings of the Four A's, in rooms almost always filled to capacity.
        A plaque on his office wall from members of the agency association offered a tribute that appropriately paraphrased a well-known old advertising slogan: ''Call Harry, he'll know.''
        After Mr. Paster retired from the Four A's in 1995, he opened his own agency consulting company at the association's headquarters in Midtown Manhattan.
        Mr. Paster is survived by his wife of 52 years, Beverly; a daughter, Lynn Paster Offsey; a son, Ken Paster; and six grandchildren.
      