
        Robert Allen, the composer of songs that included ''Chances Are,'' ''Moments to Remember'' and ''Home for the Holidays,'' died on Sunday at his home in Quogue, N.Y. He was 73. The cause was colon cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Allen's songs were performed by Johnny Mathis, Tony Bennett, Perry Como, Billie Holiday, Jimmy Durante, Kate Smith, the Shirelles, the Four Lads and many other singers in the 1950's and 60's, and some have become pop standards.
        Mr. Allen was born in Troy, N.Y., and after graduating from high school in 1945, he passed up an engineering scholarship to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute to become a musician. He played jazz piano in New York clubs, started writing music in 1952 and began working for television shows. He wrote ''You Are Never Far Away From Me,'' the closing song for ''Perry Como's Kraft Music Hall''; ''Sing Along'' for Mitch Miller's series ''Sing Along With Mitch''; ''A Very Special Love'' for CBS's ''Playhouse 90''; and music for ''The Archie Show.''
        He wrote his biggest hits with the lyricist Al Stillman. They collaborated on ''Chances Are'' and ''It's Not for Me to Say,'' which were major hits for Johnny Mathis, and on a series of hits for the Four Lads in the mid-1950's, including ''Moments to Remember,'' ''Enchanted Island'' and ''There's Only One of You.'' They also wrote ''Home for the Holidays,'' which has been recorded by more than two dozen performers, including Andy Williams, the Glenn Miller Orchestra and Garth Brooks.
        Mr. Allen wrote the football march for Auburn College, ''War Eagle''; soundtrack music for the movies ''Lizzie,'' ''Enchanted Island'' and ''Happy Anniversary''; and music for a Debbie Reynolds Christmas album that included ''Home for the Holidays.'' He also wrote the music for and produced the album ''Bob McGrath From Sesame Street.'' In 1963, he wrote the score of and produced ''Three Billion Millionaires,'' a benefit album for the United Nations by Bing Crosby, Judy Garland, Danny Kaye, Sammy Davis Jr., Jack Benny and Carol Burnett. The trumpeter Shorty Rogers recorded a big-band album of Allen compositions, ''Chances Are It Swings.''
        Mr. Allen is survived by his wife, Patty K. Allen; his children Diana, Katie, Gordon and Pamela; his mother, Ruth Kreger; a sister, Judy Holmes; and three grandchildren.
      