
        Dr. Eugene Borowitz, a psychiatrist who had a key role in developing the anonymous system that the MacArthur Fellows Program uses to identify potential recipients of its stipends known informally as ''genius grants,'' died on Tuesday in a hospital in Chicago. He was 71 and lived in Chicago.
        He had cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Borowitz was a star football player as a student at DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx. And it was his athleticism, not his education, that gave him the expertise that was precious to the MacArthur Fellows Program. The program's function is defined as awarding ''fellowships to exceptionally creative individuals, regardless of field of endeavor.''
        The MacArthur director, Daniel Socolow, who has a doctorate in sociology, said yesterday that Dr. Borowitz, who was also a psychoanalyst, was ''an important player in the early years of the development of the program.'' There have been 588 grant recipients since 1981.
        Nowadays, each grant is $500,000, paid in quarterly installments over five years. The program is operated by the Chicago-based John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, which has assets of $4 billion. Mr. MacArthur was a businessman.
        The future Dr. Borowitz was also a star player on the baseball team of the University of Chicago, where he received a bachelor's degree in sociology in 1951. He was a notable pitcher, remembered for a no-hitter against Northwestern University during his team's 1947 season.
        His success got him an offer to enter the Chicago Cubs' farm system, his family recalled, and he drew on his encounter with the team's anonymous scouting system in advising the MacArthur Foundation.
        At the foundation, the view is that Dr. Borowitz helped to create its scouting system. But his family's view is that he was the system's sole author. He was a consultant to the foundation from the late 1970's to 1984, a period that included the birth of the fellowship program.
        After graduation from DeWitt Clinton High School, Dr. Borowitz received his medical degree from Tulane, was a resident in psychiatry at the University of Illinois and had his psychoanalytic training at the Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis.
        He was on the faculty of the University of Illinois's College of Medicine from 1959 until 1987, when he retired as professor of psychiatry. He was also the longtime head of the College of Medicine's psychiatric residency program, and had a private psychiatric practice as well.
        He is survived by his wife of 49 years, the former Selma Shore; two sons, Stephen, of Charlottesville, Va., and Michael, of London; a daughter, Jennifer Borowitz-Gutzke of Chicago; and three granddaughters.
      