
        Bettino Craxi, the first Socialist to serve as prime minister in postwar Italy, who ended his career in disgrace and self-imposed exile as an emblem of political corruption, died of a heart attack in Tunisia on Wednesday, his family said. He was 65.
        In recent months, there had been intense debate in Italy about a possible pardon for Mr. Craxi, who had been convicted in Italian courts of corruption and faced arrest if he returned. He had heart trouble and diabetes, and he had kidney surgery in November at a military hospital in Tunisia. Although some Italian leaders were disposed to allow his return to Italy, no action was taken.
        A professional politician since his youth, Mr. Craxi (pronounced CROCK-see) rose to the leadership of the Socialist Party in 1976, at age 42. He quickly reorganized the party, crushed its left wing, substituted the rose for its hammer-and-sickle symbol, routed his rivals and abandoned outdated Marxist ideology. His program shared little of the tone or substance of the Socialist governments that came to power in the early 1980's in France, Greece, Spain and Portugal.
        In 1983, after helping bring down three governments led by the stagnant Christian Democrats, Mr. Craxi forced an early election. The balloting inflicted losses on the Christian Democrats, held the Communists below the peaks they had achieved in the 1970's and made Mr. Craxi prime minister six months before his 50th birthday.
        In March 1987, when Mr. Craxi stepped down after nearly four years in office, ending what had been the longest continuous period in office of any postwar Italian prime minister, he was readily described as one of the most durable and influential figures in Italian politics.
        His four years coincided with vigorous economic growth as big Italian corporations adjusted to the oil crisis of the 1970's and small companies discovered themselves as aggressive exporters. To contain legendary Italian inflation, he decreed an end to the automatic linking of wage increases to price rises; when his decision was confirmed by referendum, it enhanced his image as a bold leader.
        Mr. Craxi also proved an able master of foreign policy, engaging Italy in Europe and the Middle East. He stuck to a North Atlantic Treaty Organization's decision in 1979 to station 112 cruise missiles at a base in Sicily, despite strong domestic opposition and angry threats from the Soviet leadership. By 1980 his party was at the zenith of its popularity, with 14.3 percent of the vote.
        In his early years, Mr. Craxi's personality and style gained him more admirers and enemies than friends. His single-mindedness and political and oratorical skills contrasted with the flowery effusions of old-style politicians. But his enemies saw the same qualities in a less favorable light, and ascribed to him excessive ambition, arrogance and manipulativeness. In political cartoons, he was invariably depicted in jackboots, resembling Mussolini.
        By the early 1990's, Mr. Craxi, a tall balding man who glared challengingly at the world through owlish spectacles, had come to epitomize the corruption that laced Italian politics and public life and that ultimately brought down the postwar political system in 1992.
        Even earlier, allegations of corruption had dogged him. In 1987, a close associate, a builder in Milan named Salvatore Ligresti, was involved in the first of many investigations. Mr. Craxi was also accused of nepotism. In Milan, a Socialist stronghold, Paolo Pillitteri, a brother-in-law, became mayor, while the job of party secretary went to Mr. Craxi's son, Bobo.
        And to cement his party's influence, Mr. Craxi had early on begun emulating -- surpassing, some said -- the tactics of the stronger Christian Democrats, who had used a dense system of patronage and political and financial rewards to ensure loyalty. By the 1980's the Socialist Party was so entrenched in the public institutions that some experts spoke of a competitive system of taxation, in which the Socialists vied with the Christian Democrats in milking the system to support their  political programs.
        Large state-run concerns, like the ENI oil group and Banca Nazionale del Lavoro, were considered Socialist fiefs. The party laid claim to one of the state television channels, influencing its newscasts in the Socialists' favor.
        In 1994, as the corruption investigations continued to mow down the elite of the political establishment, Mr. Craxi fled to his summer home in Tunisia to escape certain arrest. There he lived, bitter and in ill health, though always insisting on his innocence.
        The essence of his defense was always: Everyone did it, and everyone knew, so why me?
        ''How do you explain that for 20 years, when everyone knew that the system was run on illicit contributions, that there was not a single inquiry, not a single trial?'' he asked in a 1994 interview with The New York Times. ''The magistrates knew, so they were also responsible.''
        Unlike many of his predecessors as prime minister, who came from the professions or Italy's sprawling administrative apparatus, Mr. Craxi, a college dropout, was never anything but a politician. And despite the scope of the corruption charges leveled against him, he never gave up a relatively modest way of life. Though he had a summer home in Tunisia, he lived in a rented apartment in Milan and, unlike most Italian politicians, had no apartment in Rome but stayed in a hotel suite while there.
        During Mr. Craxi's time as prime minister, Italian society was undergoing sweeping changes, as the number of industrial workers declined and the ranks of the urban middle class swelled. To appeal to those new groups, Mr. Craxi's party took libertarian stands on social issues like abortion. He shed the stodgy image of the old left-wing parties, introducing slick new party conventions designed for television.
        By 1983, when he took office, Italian economic recovery was in full swing. Growth was 2.3 percent and remained at that level for two years. But in 1986, oil prices and the value of the dollar dropped, aiding the anti-inflation struggle in which Mr. Craxi played a large part. In 1984, the end of indexing wages to inflation brought the rise in the cost of living down to 10 percent.
        In the Middle East, Mr. Craxi supported Palestinian aspirations for a homeland, but he distinguished between moderate and extreme Arab nations. He was eager, both for domestic and party reasons, to be on good terms with the United States.
        A dramatic conflict with Washington flared after the hijacking of the Achille Lauro cruise ship in October 1985 and the killing of an elderly passenger in a wheelchair, Leon Klinghoffer. When the United States Navy forced a plane carrying Arab terrorists to land in Sicily, Washington wanted to take the men into custody. But Mr. Craxi asserted Italian control over its territory, taking charge of the men and then releasing them. The prime minister was forced to resign but returned immediately to office.
        Yet he backed American plans for the Middle East, agreeing to send Italian troops to Lebanon as part of an international force. He alone of Europe's Socialist leaders fully supported the NATO decision to station new medium-range nuclear-tipped missiles in Europe to counter a Soviet buildup, despite street demonstrations in Italy and dire warnings from the Soviet leader, Yuri V. Andropov.
        Benedetto Craxi -- his first name gave way to the diminutive Bettino just after being entered in the baptismal registry -- was born in Milan on Feb. 24, 1934, the son of a lawyer, also a Socialist, who had migrated to Milan from his native Sicily in search of work. Childhood memories included a house north of Milan where the family retreated when Milan was subjected to Allied bombing in World War II.
        In 1948 his father ran for Parliament on the Popular Front ticket, which united Communists and Socialists, and young Bettino stuck posters on walls. But that was also the year of the Communist coup in Czechoslovakia, in which the Socialists were also victims. His father lost the election, and the experience left Mr. Craxi a confirmed anti-Communist.
        At 18 he joined the Socialist Party and entered Milan University law school. The most lasting result of his brief university career was meeting his wife, Anna Mancini, daughter of a Socialist rail worker. He is survived by his wife and their son, Vittorio, always known as Bobo, and daughter, Stefania.
        Mr. Craxi's precipitous downfall began in 1992. The end of the cold war had put an end to the standoff in Italian domestic politics between Communist and non-Communist parties. Moreover, the ever more evident corruption -- and the higher taxes to pay for it -- produced a voter revolution in northern Italy, led by the separatist Northern League.
        Emboldened by the weakness of the political establishment, magistrates in Milan began investigating, and Mr. Craxi and the Socialists bore the brunt of Italians' revulsion at the scale of the bribery that came to light, said to have run as high as $2 billion to $3 billion over the decades when the entrenched political and business elite ran the country.
        In one instance alone, involving a takeover battle between ENI and the private Ferruzzi food and chemicals group, Mr. Craxi and his party were accused of pocketing as much as $12 million.
        In April 1993, Mr. Craxi was forced to give up his seat as party leader. His last public appearance in Italy came in December 1993, when he testified as a witness in the Milan trial of a financier accused of funneling some $94 million in bribes from Ferruzzi to politicians, including Mr. Craxi.
        In May 1994, faced with a warrant for his arrest, he fled to the eight-acre plot of olive groves, palms and bougainvillea that surrounds his summer retreat outside Hammamet, Tunisia.
        Mr. Craxi, who was convicted of graft and corruption in five separate trials and acquitted in one, was declared a fugitive from justice by a Milan court in July 1995, and an international arrest warrant was issued for him.
        The Italian government said today that it would allow Mr. Craxi to be buried in Italy. But his daughter rejected the offer, telling the Italian news agency ANSA: ''My father will remain here in Tunisia. This is his fatherland now.''
      