
        Dennis Sandole, a jazz guitarist and legendary teacher whose students included John Coltrane, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 87.
        Mr. Sandole was 19 when he taught himself to play the guitar; his older brother, Adolph, taught himself the baritone saxophone. They began playing together in a neighborhood band in Philadelphia, and a decade later, in the early 1940's, Mr. Sandole was playing guitar with some of the major swing-era big bands, including those led by Charlie Barnet, Boyd Raeburn, Tommy Dorsey and Ray McKinley. While on the West Coast in that period, he also recorded film soundtracks and played at studio recording sessions, including several for Frank Sinatra and Billie Holiday.
        In the mid-40's, Mr. Sandole moved back to Philadelphia to write music and to teach at the Granoff Studios.
        He was John Coltrane's mentor from 1946 until the early 1950's, introducing him to theory beyond chords and scales and exposing him to the music of other cultures. Mr. Sandole taught advanced harmonic techniques that were applicable to any instrument, using exotic scales and creating his own.
        His students said that he helped them develop confidence by focusing on their strengths and abilities. His book ''Guitar Lore'' was published in 1981 by the Theodore Presser Company.
        Mr. Sandole taught privately until the end of his life, letting his musical career take a back seat to his teaching. His other students over half a century included the saxophonists James Moody, Michael Brecker, Rob Brown and Bobby Zankel; the pianists Matthew Shipp and Sumi Tonooka; and the guitarists Jim Hall, Joe Diorio and Pat Martino.
        But he did record some of his own music, including ''Modern Music From Philadelphia,'' recorded with his brother and released by Fantasy in 1956. In 1999 Cadence Jazz released another album, ''The Dennis Sandole Project,'' a combination of old trio recordings and parts of ''Evenin' Is Cryin','' a jazz ballet-opera he wrote in the 1960's and 70's.
        He is survived by a son, Dennis Jr., of Burke, Va.; two daughters, Denise, of Manhattan, and Stephanie Low of Pleasantville, N.J.; three sisters, Annette Lowe of Plymouth Meeting, Pa.; Marie Volpe of Philadelphia; and Rita Cavanaugh of Broomall, Pa.; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      