
        Sidney R. Yates, a congressman from Chicago for nearly half a century who battled  for government support for the arts, died on Thursday at a hospital here. He was 91.
        Mr. Yates lived in Washington after retiring from the House of Representatives two years ago. In 24 terms, he built a reputation as a die-hard liberal Democrat, formidable vote-getter and, perhaps most of all, an ally of the National Endowment for the Arts when it was besieged by conservatives and budget-cutters.
        ''I've always wanted Washington to be the artistic capital of the country, as well as the political capital,'' he said after a 1998 performance by the National Symphony Orchestra in his honor.
        Mr. Yates successfully resisted the Reagan administration's efforts to cut funds for the endowment in half one year and to eliminate them altogether the next.
        On other occasions, Mr. Yates defended the endowment from critics who failed to discern the merit in erotic photographs and creativity expressed through dung or urine. He told the critics that such works were atypical and that most artistic endeavors supported by the government were sights and sounds that anyone could enjoy.
        Mr. Yates pushed for the legislation that established the National Endowment for the Arts in 1965. In 1975, he became chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee that oversaw the endowment. He lost the chairmanship when the Republicans won control of the House in 1994, but he retained considerable influence, having won the respect and friendship of lawmakers in both parties in his years on Capitol Hill.
        In his final months in office, he was still fighting the Republican leadership's efforts to curb the endowment. He insisted it was an essential thread in ''the social fabric of the country.''
        The youngest of six children of Lithuanian immigrants, Sidney R.Yates grew up in Chicago. A brother was a vaudeville talent agent, and Mr. Yates acquired a love for the theater early on.
        He graduated from the University of Chicago with a degree in philosophy in 1931 and earned a law degree there in 1933. In the mid-1930's, he played semiprofessional basketball and practiced law. He also worked for Illinois state agencies overseeing railroads and commerce.
        After serving in the Navy in World War II, he returned to his law practice. In 1948, he was elected to Congress, upsetting the incumbent Republican. Mr. Yates narrowly won re-election to his next two terms and thereafter easily beat all opponents.
        Mr. Yates was one of the first congressmen to speak out against age discrimination, arguing in 1951 that mandatory retirement of workers was wrong and deprived older people of their ''right to lead a proud, productive and independent life.''
        Mr. Yates was an ardent backer of President John F. Kennedy, and therein lies a tale of bad luck and, just possibly, political intrigue.
        In 1962, Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago persuaded Mr. Yates to give up his safe House seat to run against Senator Everett M. Dirksen, the Republican minority leader. Mr. Yates was the first Jew to run for the Senate in Illinois.
        President Kennedy went to Illinois in October to campaign for Mr. Yates but cut his trip short because of the Cuban missile crisis. Senator Dirksen was among the officials seen meeting with President Kennedy in Washington at the height of the crisis, and Mr. Yates complained that his opponent had cast himself as an adviser to the president, when in fact Mr. Dirksen was simply being briefed on presidential decisions.
        Senator Dirksen told a story during the campaign that undercut Mr. Yates further. The senator said President Kennedy had talked to him about the campaign and said: ''What are you worrying about, Ev? You've got it in the bag.''
        Mr. Yates accused the senator of a fabrication. One reporter who had heard the Dirksen story thought the senator had simply been joking. Regardless, the episode did not help Mr. Yates, especially because there had been persistent rumors that the president wanted Senator Dirksen to win, so that he would not be replaced as Republican leader by Senator Bourke B. Hickenlooper of Iowa, who was far more conservative.
        After Mr. Yates lost, the president appointed him to a United Nations post. In 1994, voters overwhelmingly returned Mr. Yates to the House.
        He is survived by his wife of 65 years, Adeline; a son, Stephen, a Cook County circuit judge; and three grandchildren.
      