
        Willard Bascom, an engineer and scientist fascinated by the sea who supervised pioneering deep-sea exploration in the 1960's, died on Sept. 20 at his home in San Diego. He was 83.
        His death stemmed from injuries in a car accident, his family said.
        From 1960 to 1962, Mr. Bascom was director of the Mohole Project, which sought to drill through the ocean floor to the mantle below. American scientists hoped to learn about the earth's birth through the project.
        In 1961, Mr. Bascom oversaw a trial at deep-sea drilling. Using an experimental oil-drilling ship in the Pacific off Mexico's coast, he put, as Life magazine said afterward, ''a string of drill pipe two miles down to the floor of the open Pacific and brought up the first rock cores.''
        Mr. Bascom's brother, Mansfield Bascom of Paoli, Pa., said after his brother's death, ''When the world record depth of water for drilling was about 400 feet, he drilled in 12,000 and collected the first samples of the earth's 'second layer.' ''
        But a Houston-based contractor took over the project, Mr. Bascom ceased running it, and Congress halted its appropriations.
        Later, Mr. Bascom headed a company that prospected for tin, gold and diamonds undersea. But at a symposium in 1986 in Kingston, R.I., called ''The Future of the World's Oceans,'' he voiced skepticism about the future of undersea mining.
        The issue he said, was whether it was possible to get minerals at less cost undersea than elsewhere. He added, ''I have serious doubts about that.''
        His 1963 book, ''Waves and Beaches: The Dynamics of the Ocean Surface,'' was reissued in 1980.
        Mr. Bascom received the Explorers Medal from the Explorers Club in Manhattan.
        A native New Yorker, he attended the Colorado School of Mines and was a mining engineer for some years. He went on to be a research engineer at the University of California Scripps Institute of Oceanography and to do other work in oceanography and related fields, including marine archaeology.
        He married Rhoda Nergaard in 1946. She died in 1988.
        Besides his brother, his survivors include a daughter, Anitra Bascom of San Diego; a son, Willard Bernardin of Potomac, Md.; a companion, Susannah Haber of Del Mar, Calif.; four grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
      