
        Wojciech Has, a prize-winning Polish filmmaker whose best-known work, a black-and-white surrealist epic called ''The Saragossa Manuscript,'' acquired a cult following when it was released in the United States in 1965, died on Oct. 3 in Lodz, Poland. He was 75.
        He suffered from diabetes and had recently undergone two operations.
        Born in Cracow in 1925, Mr. Has graduated from the Cracow Film Institute in 1946 and spent the next decade making documentaries on industrial and agricultural subjects. ''The Noose,'' his first feature film, was a moody portrait of the last day in the life of a suicidal alcoholic and, at a time when Polish cinema was preoccupied with politics and history, helped establish his reputation as a literary director inclined toward dark, existential themes.
        Although his 1963 feature ''How to Be Loved'' was awarded a Golden Gate prize at the San Francisco Film Festival, the American following for  Mr. Has's work really developed two years later with the release of ''The Saragossa Manuscript.'' Based on a 19th-century novel by a globe-trotting Polish count, the film is a vertiginous set of tales within tales within tales, all loosely centered on Mr. Has's hapless protagonist, a Belgian military officer on a journey over the mountains to Madrid. The officer gets caught up in one fantastic adventure after another until the distinction between reality and fantasy becomes hopelessly blurred.
        The film's hallucinatory imagery and impenetrable dream logic baffled some critics but captivated a number of influential filmmakers, including Luis Bunuel, whose 1967 ''Belle du Jour'' is indebted to Mr. Has.
        Jerry Garcia, the Grateful Dead leader who died in 1995, was a fan of the film and paid to have it restored to its original three-hour length after he saw the abbreviated American version.
        Reviewing the restored version in 1997, Stephen Holden, a film critic for The New York Times, wondered, ''What does it all mean?'' He wrote, ''After emerging from this pleasurably robust storybook world, it might take you a few minutes to figure out which end is up.''
        Mr. Has went on to make half a dozen more feature films, one of which, ''The Sandglass'' (1973), about a Polish Jew whose father is dying in a sanatorium, was awarded the Jury Prize at Cannes. From 1990 to 1996 he served as director of the Lodz Film School.
        He is survived by his wife, Wanda, and a son, Marck.
      