
        Donald Dewar, a lifelong Labor politician whose devotion to greater power for Scotland was rewarded in 1999 when he became first minister of the first Scottish Parliament in almost 300 years, died of a brain hemorrhage today at a hospital in Edinburgh, aides said. He was 63.
        Mr. Dewar, who had surgery to repair a leaky heart valve in May, slipped and fell outside his house in Edinburgh on Tuesday, apparently setting off the hemorrhage. Doctors said they thought that the medication he had been taking to thin his blood exacerbated the bleeding. His condition deteriorated throughout the day, and he was placed on a life-support machine on Tuesday night.
        As his ministerial colleagues held an emergency meeting to discuss how to proceed politically, Mr. Dewar's two children, Ian and Marion, ordered that the machine be turned off this afternoon.
        Mr. Dewar's death shocked Scotland, which considered him the architect of its devolved Parliament and the man most responsible for the nation's greater powers in the last two years. It also created an awkward political situation for the Labor Party, which now has 28 days under party rules to nominate a new candidate for first minister at a time when the party's fortunes are at their lowest ebb in more than three years.
        Born to a middle-class family in Glasgow in 1937, Donald Dewar soon found that politics was his passion. He studied law at Glasgow University, where he was president of the debating union, and was elected for the first time to the House of Commons in 1966. Rising through the Labor Party ranks, he remained in Parliament for most of his career, although he was sidetracked in 1970, when he lost his seat representing Aberdeen South. He practiced law until he was re-elected to Parliament eight years later.
        He was divorced from his wife, Alison, more than 20 years ago, after she left him for his close friend Derry Irvine, now Britain's lord chancellor. He never remarried.
        Throughout Labor's long years in opposition, Mr. Dewar served in various capacities in the shadow cabinet, taking the important position of opposition chief whip before the 1997 general election. When Labor won, he was made secretary of state for Scotland, a job that allowed him to fight wholeheartedly on behalf of a new Parliament for Scotland, one of Prime Minister Tony Blair's top post-election priorities. When the new Parliament finally opened in Edinburgh in May 1999, Mr. Dewar left the House of Commons and took his seat there.
        But the fledgling Parliament, which has authority over many of Scotland's institutions but is still subject to British control in some areas, had a rocky start. Mr. Dewar, a skilled parliamentarian and formidable debater with a biting wit, found himself roundly criticized when the new Parliament building, which came to be called ''Donald's Dome,'' was plagued by delays and cost overruns. He also found himself embroiled in a bitter fight over tuition charges for college students and over Labor's planned repeal of a law directing how homosexuality could be discussed in schools.
        Although Scottish politics is a rough-and-tumble game, the political debate ceased today as Scotland mourned the loss of a politician who had done much to bolster its national identity.
        ''The unwary would occasionally style Donald Dewar the father of the nation -- a title he laughingly disowned with customary self-deprecation,'' said Brian Taylor, the political editor of BBC Scotland. ''But in any event, devolution's father has had an achingly short time with his political child.''
      