
        Charles Hartshorne, a philosopher, theologian and educator who wrote more than 20 books and 100 articles in a lifelong mission to prove that God was a participant in cosmic evolution rather than the supreme composer, died on Tuesday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 103.
        Dr. Hartshorne became the principal proponent of what is called process theology, which holds that basic reality is in an unremitting process of change. God is seen as not being immutable, omnipotent or omniscient, but rather as responding to events in a manner sometimes termed ''divine relativity.''
        As such, God, like all else, changes constantly. God cannot see the future. What remains changeless is God's perfect responsiveness to all that is changing.
        Randall Styers, a professor at Union Theological Seminary, said the theory led to a radical reformulation of the nature of God, one that continues to be debated.
        ''God didn't look like Charlton Heston anymore,'' Professor Styers said. ''This is a God that literally suffers with us.''
        The ''process'' concept, which Dr. Hartshorne developed from the ideas of one of his professors at Harvard, the philosopher Alfred North Whitehead, influenced progressive Protestant theologians and, more recently, Roman Catholics and Jews, said David Ray Griffin, a professor of the philosophy of religion at the Claremont School of Theology.
        ''He was clearly one of the major philosophers of the 20th century,'' Dr. Griffin said of Dr. Hartshorne.
        Charles Hartshorne, born on June 5, 1897, in Kittanning, Pa., was descended from Quakers through his father, an Episcopal minister. He once recalled that no one in his family disbelieved in religion and no one rejected evolution. He brought both views to his work, the application of rationality to theological questions.
        But his most important influence may have been four words spoken by his mother. ''Life is very big,'' she told her son.
        ''This remained for him the basic truth in everything he did,'' said Davidson Loehr, minister of the Unitarian Universalist Church in Austin.
        The Hartshorne mission, Dr. Loehr said, was no less than ''saving face for the word God in the 20th century.'' Philosophers in the positivist and analytical schools, which have dominated the discussion, not to mention more recent postmodernists and deconstructionists, had little use for the deity.
        Dr. Hartshorne's first step was  proving that God exists, at least to his satisfaction. He applied his deepest passion, metaphysics, which he defined as ''the search for necessary truths, truths that are not only true, but they couldn't have been false.''
        Using mathematics to work through much of the logic, he found 16 proofs of God's existence. ''By one principle of subdivision, you can make it 32,'' he said in an interview with The Austin American-Statesman in 1997, ''but there's very little need to go beyond that.''
        Second, he developed his concept of a flexible, dynamic God. ''He really did an enormous amount of creative work on helping people rethink the nature of the divine and the relationship between the divine and known world,'' Dr. Styers said.
        Charles Hartshorne entered Haverford College in 1915 but left to join the Army Medical Corps. He took a crate of philosophy books to the front lines in France in World War I. ''Every time I was not on duty I would read one,'' he said in an interview with The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette.
        After leaving the Army, he graduated from Harvard. He then received a fellowship to study in Europe, where one of his teachers was the German philosopher Martin Heidegger. He returned to Harvard to study for a doctorate and, with the philosopher Paul Weiss, to edit the papers of Charles Sanders Pierce, the logician.
        In 1928 he joined the philosophy department of the University of Chicago. He soon met Dorothy Cooper, who became his wife, editor and bibliographer. One of his favorite pastimes was listening to her sing Mozart.
        ''He was a real absent-minded professor,'' said John R. Silber, chancellor of Boston University and a friend, ''and she made it possible for him to function.''
        Dr. Silber recalled a story that Mrs. Hartshorne told. At a reception, her husband pulled out an embarrassingly dirty handkerchief. She discreetly took it and put it in her purse. The same thing happened again, with a second handkerchief. And again.
        A short time later, he muttered, ''I need a handkerchief, I thought I had one.'' She smiled, and handed him a tissue.
        Dr. Hartshorne went on to teach at Emory University in Atlanta, and the University of Texas. His first book, ''The Philosophy and Psychology of Sensation,'' was influential because it brought philosophical insights to an empirical field, Dr. Silber said.
        But the interests of the small, witty professor transcended his work. He was a vegetarian. He did not own an automobile, preferring to ride a bicycle. He wrote letters to newspapers supporting feminism, abortion rights and higher taxes.
        In 1996, at 98, he wrote his last article in an academic journal, and two years later he delivered his last lecture. His wife died in 1995, and his brother, Richard, author of a prominent geography textbook, in 1992. He is survived by a daughter, Emily Schwartz of Austin, and two grandchildren.
        The depth, breadth and utter playfulness of Dr. Hartshorne's mind is suggested by his 1973 book, ''Born to Sing.'' The book argued that some bird species had evolved the ability to appreciate melody and sing for the sheer pleasure of it, a notion that continues to intrigue zoological scientists.
        ''If he'd never been a philosopher, he would have been a very distinguished ornithologist,'' Dr. Silber said.
      