
        Dr. Hendrik B. G. Casimir, a leading theorist of quantum mechanics, has died at age 90.
        He died May 4 in the Dutch town of Heeze; his death was reported in a recent issue of the magazine Physics Today, a publication of the American Institute of Physics.
        He is best known for predicting one of the strangest effects of quantum mechanics -- that even the seeming emptiness of a vacuum can generate electromagnetic forces to pull two objects toward each other.
        The prediction, which Dr. Casimir published in 1948, was regarded as a theoretical curiosity. But the force, known as the Casimir Effect, was verified in 1996.
        Dr. Casimir had ''an extremely fast way of grasping the complete picture,'' said Dr. Martin F. H. Schuurmans, chief executive of the Center for Industrial Technology of the electronics giant Royal Philips Electronics, in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, where Dr. Casimir worked for 30 years.
        Born in 1901 in The Hague, Dr. Casimir worked with many of the leading theoretical physicists of the 20th century. As a graduate student at Leiden University in the Netherlands, Dr. Casimir studied under Paul Ehrenfest, who developed statistical theories to describe the behavior of gases, and also spent 18 months in Copenhagen, working with Niels Bohr, who developed the early quantum mechanical picture of the atom. Later, after completing his doctorate in physics, he worked in Zurich as an assistant to Wolfgang Pauli, a leading quantum theorist.
        He became a physics professor at Leiden University in 1938 but left the university in 1942, when the turmoil of World War II shut down the universities, and moved to the Philips Research Laboratories in Eindhoven, where he continued his work in theoretical physics. In 1946, he was named one of three directors for the laboratories. Dr. Casimir later became a member of the Philips board of directors.
        In 1948, he and a student, Dik Polder, wrote the paper predicting the Casimir Effect. They imagined two parallel metal plates placed close together in a complete vacuum. However, in quantum mechanics, a vacuum is not empty, but a continually burbling cauldron of ''virtual particles'' that appear and disappear so quickly that they cannot be detected.
        In their theory, the electrical charges of the virtual particles would induce equally ephemeral currents in the metal plates. The currents, in turn, would generate magnetic fields. Depending on the direction of the currents and magnetic fields, the force could pull the plates together or push them apart. But adding up all of the possibilities, the two physicists showed that the force was, on balance, attractive.
        ''That was the tricky thing,'' Dr. Schuurmans said.
        In 1996, Dr. Steve K. Lamoreaux, then at the University of Washington, performed an experiment that successfully measured the Casimir Effect to within 5 percent of the predicted value.
        He retired in 1972 and then served as president of the European Physical Society from 1972 to 1975.
        He is survived by his wife, Josina, and five children.
        Correction:  October 23, 2000, Monday  An obituary of the physicist Hendrik B. G. Casimir on Oct. 13 misstated the year of his birth. Dr. Casimir, who died at 90, was born in 1909, not 1901.
      