
        Kellis E. Parker, one of five black students who integrated the University of North Carolina four decades ago and went on to become the first black law professor at Columbia University, died Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 58.
        The cause of death was acute respiratory distress syndrome, which struck him last month, his daughter Kimberly said.
        Professor Parker joined the law faculty of Columbia in 1972 and was known for a range of stances, from his outspoken advocacy of ending racial discrimination in academia to embracing jazz as a framework for understanding law. He taught a course in the law governing music contracts, called ''Jazz Roots Revisited: The Law the Slaves Made.''
        Professor Parker, an accomplished trombonist, was the older brother of the funk and jazz saxophonist Maceo Parker.
        In an interview in 1994 with The New York Law Journal, Professor Parker said black Americans, much like they did in jazz, improvised rules to ''deal with problems we were incurring in our lives.''
        He said the black American experience with law involved adherence to principles, not to the civil laws that allowed segregation until half a century ago. ''The law which sent my daddy to jail is not the law we respected,'' he said.
        Mr. Parker's civil rights activism  began at an early age in his hometown, Kinston, N.C., when, as head of the band at his high school, which was segregated, he asked the local Chamber of Commerce to change its rules after he protested about his fellow students being placed at the back of a parade. He said he was stunned that they agreed. ''Nothing had happened in that town to make you think anything would change,'' he recalled in a later interview with the law journal.
        That victory gave Mr. Parker an inkling that something was changing across the South at that time, the late 1950's. Soon, he applied to the University of North Carolina. Mr. Parker and four other black students integrated the university's Chapel Hill campus in 1960.
        A year later, he and Allard K. Lowenstein, a fellow student who became a member of Congress, were instrumental in organizing demonstrations that helped desegregate the campus's facilities.
        After receiving an undergraduate degree, Mr. Parker attended Howard University Law School in Washington, where he graduated at the top of his class. He then took a clerkship with Spottswood W. Robinson III, a judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
        Mr. Parker had planned to return to North Carolina to practice law, but instead he took Judge Robinson's suggestion to try teaching. Mr. Parker took a position at the University of California at Davis, heading various clinical programs, before becoming the first black professor at Columbia Law School in 1972.
        Three years later, he became the first black professor to receive tenure at Columbia Law School. He left Columbia in 1977 to become director  of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc. He returned to Columbia a year later, while retaining the position at the defense fund.
        In 1994, he was named to an endowed position, the Isidor and Seville Sulzbacher Professor of Law.
        Mr. Parker performed last yearwith the Don Shaw Group at the jazz festival in Naples, Italy. He also played in jazz bands throughout Europe, at Columbia and elsewhere in New York City.
        He is survived by three daughters, Kimberly of Palo Alto, Calif., Shilla of Cambridge, Mass., and Emily of Washington; two sons, Kellis Jr. and Kai, both of New York; his companion, Dr. Cassandra Simmons, of New York; his mother, Novella, of Kinston; three brothers, Donald of Kinston and Maceo and Melvin, both of New York; and a sister, Valerie, of Kinston.
      