
        In recent years, supporters of Gov. Mel Carnahan of Missouri had taken to wearing gold lapel pins shaped like straight arrows. The symbolism was clear: Mr. Carnahan's dominant characteristic as a politician was his reputation for being clean and on the level.
        He was not a scintillating speaker, a back-slapper or a joke-teller, but a politician who pursued his principles in a quiet, confident way, those who knew him said yesterday.
        ''When you meet Mel Carnahan, it's sort of like meeting your pastor,'' said Gary Stangler, who recently retired as Missouri's social services director. ''He's not charismatic. He had that kind of presence.''
        Gov. Bill Graves of Kansas, a Republican who got to know Governor Carnahan well, said: ''I want to say this in a way that sounds flattering:  he wasn't the game-show host type of politician. He had a very subdued, unemotional, even keel to himself.''
        Mr. Carnahan's older brother, Bob, 74, said yesterday that as a child the governor ''just didn't do things that were wrong on purpose.''
        ''He never did smoke, which was something that just about everybody did. As far as I know, he never ever had a sip of beer or wine, but he didn't hold it against people who did. I never heard Mel swear, past maybe 'damn' or 'hell.' ''
        Governor Carnahan, 66, died on Monday when a private plane piloted by his son Roger, 44, and carrying an aide, Chris Sifford, 37, crashed near St. Louis. The other two men were also killed. They were on the way to a rally in the governor's race for the United States Senate against the Republican incumbent, John Ashcroft.
        Mr. Carnahan's presence in Missouri politics was almost as steady as his personality. Starting at age 26 as a municipal judge and later serving as a state representative, Mr. Carnahan practiced law after he lost a bid for state senator in 1966. But since 1981, he has been prominent in government, as Missouri's treasurer, lieutenant governor and, since 1993, governor.
        In his first year as governor, he won approval for more key bills than any governor in 25 years. As a Democrat in a state with a conservative population in the rural areas and a more liberal constituency in cities like St. Louis and Kansas City, Governor Carnahan did not like to be politically stereotyped.
        ''My creed is that I want government to work, and I want programs that people depend on to work well,'' he told the St. Louis Post-Dispatch last year. ''I don't know how you can put a conservative or liberal label on that. It is activist. But if you don't do that, nothing will happen.''
        On his watch, the state significantly increased the number of prison beds and approved a state budget that included $900,000 to help women find alternatives to abortions. But he also pushed through a plan to dramatically expand health insurance coverage for children. His veto of a law banning an abortion procedure called ''partial birth'' by its opponents was overturned by the Legislature. And his campaign against a  ballot initiative on permitting concealed weapons earned him enemies, but also got the proposal defeated at the polls.
        Arguably, his most controversial action came early in his first term: a $315 million tax increase for public schools, to encourage improved teacher performance, smaller classes, computers in classrooms and vocational programs.
        Representative Richard A. Gephardt, Democrat of Missouri, said today of Mr. Carnahan that ''the biggest challenge he faced in his governorship was that he in effect asked people for more money for education.''
        ''It was a big risk, and it may have kept him from winning the Senate seat,'' Mr. Gephardt said.
        A more recent controversial move was Governor Carnahan's decision to commute the death sentence of a  murderer, Darrell Mease, after Pope John Paul II made a personal appeal during a visit last year to St. Louis. Mr. Carnahan, a Baptist and strong supporter of the death penalty, described it as a one-time act of mercy, and friends said today he knew it would cost him votes. Indeed, it had become a centerpiece of Senator Ashcroft's campaign.
        ''He knew he would pay a price for that,'' Mr. Stangler said. ''But the pope appealed to him for an act of mercy for one person, not to get rid of the death penalty, which is what he thought the pope was going to say. He did it. He didn't take a poll.''
        Harriet Woods, a former Democratic lieutenant governor, said that Governor Carnahan was so committed to his views on education, health care and other issues that he saw his Senate campaign as ''almost a mission to defeat John Ashcroft.''
        Betty Sims, a Republican state senator, said that while Mr. Carnahan hardly flinched from political combat with Republicans, he was respected, in part because he was so ''sober'' and ''hard driving.'' She said the closest she ever came to seeing him smirk was at a picnic when she teased him about his starched blue jeans, which, she said, ''had been pressed within an inch of their life.''
        Melvin Eugene Carnahan was born Feb. 11, 1934, in the Missouri Ozarks town of Birch Tree, the son of teachers. His father, A.S.J. Carnahan, served in the United States House of Representatives for 14 years and as ambassador to Sierra Leone under President Kennedy. Their father's tour in Africa caused Mel and Bob Carnahan to stop performing in blackface minstrel shows at the Kiwanis Club, Bob Carnahan said. When photographs of his youthful performances surfaced last year, the governor publicly apologized.
        Mr. Carnahan graduated from George Washington University and spent two years in the Air Force, but failed the physical for becoming an Air Force pilot. He later earned his private pilot's license, and flying became a favorite hobby. He spent a lot of time on his farm near Rolla with his wife, Jean. Besides their son Roger, the couple had a daughter, Robin, and two other sons, Russ and Tom.
        Although he was not a politician full of fire and dazzle, politics was clearly Mr. Carnahan's passion from an early age, friends said.
        ''He told me some time ago,'' Mr. Stangler said, ''that when all his friends were collecting baseball cards he was collecting stories about Missouri governors.''
      