
        Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, a banker, philanthropist and civic leader, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of a heart attack after being admitted to the hospital with low blood pressure, his family said.
        He served from 1938 to 1940 as president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York -- a predecessor to what is now called the United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York -- as did his father, Joseph L. Buttenwieser, in the 1920's and his eldest son, Lawrence B. Buttenwieser, in the 1970's. Benjamin Buttenwieser was also a member of the excutive committee of the American Jewish Committee.
        An enthusiastic New Yorker, he said in a 1980 interview that his public-service activities enabled him to "pay back this city for some of what it had given me." Financier and Philanthropist
        He had also been a trustee of Columbia University, Lenox Hill Hospital, Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, Fisk University in Nashville, the New York Philharmonic Symphony Society, the Parkinson's Disease Foundation and other foundations. His personal philanthropies were widespread.
        He was a general partner in the banking house of Kuhn, Loeb from 1932 to 1949, and a limited partner from 1952 until its merger with Lehman Brothers in 1977. He was associated with its successor concerns and was a director of the Tishman Realty and Construction Company, Revlon Inc., and other concerns. He was also a governor of the Investment Bankers Association.
        Mr. Buttenwieser long enjoyed walking the streets of New York, which he once said was "probably the most heterogeneous city in the world."
        "Not a melting pot, more like a tapestry where you can recognize the various strands that make up the general pattern, or an orchestra where the trained ear can pick out the various instruments and hear the notes," he explained in an interview. Quoting Poets and Statesmen
        Yet his interests and activities ranged far afield. He liked to quote poets and statesmen ranging from Petrarch to Lord Byron, Robert Burns and Woodrow Wilson. He spoke fluent German, and after serving in a Navy bomber squadron in World War II, he was appointed Assistant United States High Commissioner in Germany from 1949 to 1951. He later called the period "the most interesting two and a half years I ever spent in my life."
        He was the son of Joseph L. Buttenwieser, a prominent real-estate businessman in New York City, and the former Caroline Weil. He grew up in Harlem, where his family owned a house at Lenox Avenue and 121st Street.
        The younger Mr. Buttenwieser entered Columbia College at the age of 15, specialized in 19th-century English poetry and graduated at 17 . He hoped to earn a Columbia University doctorate, but the university said he was not old enough. So he went downtown to Kuhn, Loeb, where he started out as a runner.
        When he finally received a doctorate from his alma mater, he was 76, and it was an honorary one. In 1967, while he was co-chairman of a $200 million fund-raising campaign for the university, the Association of the Alumni of Columbia College gave him its highest award, the Alexander Hamilton Medal.
        Mr. Buttenwieser was married in 1929 to Helen Lehman, whose father, Arthur Lehman, was then the senior partner in Lehman Brothers. Herself a civic leader and one of the first women admitted to the City Bar Association of New York, she became the first chairwoman of the Legal Aid Society in 1979, 10 years before her death.
        He is survived by three sons, Lawrence B., of Manhattan, Peter L., of Philadelphia, and Dr. Paul A., of Belmont, Mass.; nine grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
        Burial will be private. A memorial service is to be held at noon on Jan. 13 at Temple Emanu-El, at Fifth Avenue and 65th Street.
      