
        James E. Noland, senior judge of the Federal District Court in Indianapolis whose landmark ruling on stolen works of art drew international notice three years ago, died on Wednesday at Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis. He was 72 years old.
        His family said he died after a brief respiratory illness.
        The stolen art case, with its echoes of the "Indiana Jones" movies, landed in Judge Noland's court for the Southern District of Indiana when the Republic of Cyprus sued for the return of four sixth-century Byzantine mosaics. They had been been removed from the ceiling of a remote fifth-century Greek Orthodox church in Lythrankomi, Cyprus, after the Turkish invasion of 1974. Documentation Rejected
        The mosaics eventually ended up at a Swiss airport, where a dealer bought them from a Turkish importer for $1.2 million in 1988. The dealer took them home to Indianapolis and tried to sell them to the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif., for $20 million.
        Getty curators then learned that the Cypriot church had sent out an international alarm after the theft. And Judge Noland's ruling, upheld on appeal, set new standards for the acquisition of antiquities.
        It held that buyers could not hide behind a concocted story and documentation to defend the purchase of purloined objects; it rejected a claim that the setting of the purchase, Switzerland, made it respectable, and it held that the statute of limitations could not be invoked just because a stolen work had been hidden away for years.
        James Ellsworth Noland was born in LaGrange, Mo., on April 22, 1920. He received a bachelor's degree and a law degree from Indiana University and an M.B.A. from Harvard University's Graduate School of Business. He was an Army captain in World War II, went into private practice in Indianapolis and served one term, from 1949 to 1951, as a Democratic Congressman from Indiana.
        His public career also included stints as an assistant city attorney, Assistant Attorney General of Indiana and State Election Commissioner. He was appointed to the Federal bench by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966 and was the court's chief judge from 1984 to the end of 1986, when he took senior status with its reduced caseload.
        Judge Noland, who lived in Indianapolis and in St. Petersburg, Fla., is survived by his wife, the former Helen Warvel; a daughter, Kathleen Kimberly Noland, of Manhattan; two sons, James E. Noland Jr. of Indianapolis and Christopher W. Noland of Vicksburg, Miss.; a sister, Margaret Hess, of Chicago, and four grandchildren.
      