
        James R. Allen, a retired Air Force general who headed the Military Airlift Command and served as superintendent of the United States Air Force Academy in the late 1970's, died on Tuesday of cancer in the hospital at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland. He was 66 years old and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        A native of Louisville, Ky., General Allen was a 1948 graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, N.Y. He flew combat missions in both the Korean and Vietnamese wars.
        After the Korean conflict he held various posts in the United States and Germany and then returned to West Point as a faculty member at the Military Academy.
        In Vietnam he flew an F-4C as deputy commander for operations of the 12th Tactical Fighter Wing at Cam Ranh Bay.
        Having returned to the United States in 1966, he became deputy commander for operations of a pilot-training wing at Craig Air Force Base, Ala., held planning positions at the Pentagon and then commanded the 19th Air Division at Carswell Air Force Base, Tex.
        In the Pentagon post he was a principal architect of a joint Army-Air Force helicopter raid in 1970 on a camp in North Vietnam, where American prisoners were believed to be held. No prisoners were found.
        In 1973 he was named chief of staff for the Strategic Air Command, and the following year he took the job of supervising the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo. Three years later, he was promoted to general and appointed chief of staff at the headquarters of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Brussels.
        He was deputy commander of the United States European Command from 1979 to 1981 and led the Military Airlift Command at Scott Air Force Base in Illinois until his retirement nine years ago.
        General Allen is survived by his wife of 40 years, Kathryn A. Allen; a daughter, Kathryn Lewis Allen of Alexandria; a son, Jeffrey R. Allen of Richmond; a sister, Susan Frantz of Pittsburgh, and three grandchildren.
      