
        John Joseph Sirica, the Federal judge whose relentless search for the facts of the Watergate break-in made him an American folk hero and ultimately brought down the Presidency of Richard M. Nixon, died today at Georgetown University Medical Center in Washington. He was 88 years old and lived in Washington.
        Although the cause of death was not immediately known, Judge Sirica had been suffering from pneumonia, said Coimbra Sirica, the wife of his son Jack. Judge Sirica had been hospitalized earlier in the week after falling and breaking his collarbone, Mrs. Sirica said.
        "He had multiple illnesses related to being 88 years old," she said.
        Thirteen years after the start of the trial that made him the best-known judge in America, he retired on Sept. 28, 1986, at the age of 82. His career spanned 60 years, half of that time as a lawyer and half as a judge. Unlikely Hero
        He was an unlikely hero, some said -- a plain-spoken but great scholar; a successful lawyer for a while but not a dazzling one; a dabbler in Republican politics; a "hanging judge" in criminal cases; a man who spoke in cliches and who wore navy blue blazers and gray slacks.
        For the first 68 years of his life, not many people outside Washington knew his name. In his 68th year, certainly, no one who did know him expected him to rise any higher than he already had.
        But Judge Sirica, late in his life, indisputably became a hero, a true American folk hero. He was "the Watergate judge" -- the judge who pressed for the names of those responsible for the burglary on June 17, 1972, of the Democratic National Committee headquarters in Washington's Watergate complex, and thus helped crack open the cover-up.
        He presided over the first trial of the Watergate burglars, repeatedly expressing his disbelief at the trial testimony and his view that the Government should dig harder. When it was over, James W. McCord, one of the burglars, sent him a letter saying that perjury had been committed at the trial and that higher-ups were involved.
        Judge Sirica ordered President Nixon to turn over his White House tape recordings to the House Judiciary Committee, which was considering Mr. Nixon's impeachment. He presided over the trial of Mr. Nixon's chief aides. He ordered that a grand jury's report on the President be sent to the House impeachment inquiry. He demanded loudly and angrily and repeatedly, through more than two years of trials and hearings, that he and the American people be told "the truth" -- "T.R.U.T.H." as he once spelled it out to the jurors at the cover-up trial. Immigrant's Son Who Was Patriotic
        Those actions were momentous in terms of the nation's history. In them, Judge Sirica was both a poor boy, an immigrant's son, making good; and a man alone taking on the much larger forces of evil -- two of the favorite themes of American folklore.
        Added to that he was unabashedly patriotic; he acted as he did because he thought it was right. He was, by seemingly unanimous agreement, an honest man.
        Civil libertarians and conservatives alike attacked some of his methods -- his questioning of witnesses, for instance, and especially his threats of heavy sentences to defendants who refused to cooperate with Watergate investigators. Some lawyers mocked him, and rated his judicial talents poorly.
        He made some obvious mistakes, as when he implied one day, before the jury in the cover-up case, that John W. Dean 3d, the White House counsel who was also the Government's chief witness, was a liar. He also became impatient in court, losing his temper sometimes and, letting his attention wander.
        But many forgave him his methods, because of his results. And the Federal appeals courts, which had often reversed him on pre-Watergate cases, backed up much of what he did during the historic proceedings.
        The two times Judge Sirica ordered Mr. Nixon to turn over his tapes, first for tapes of 9 conversations, then for tapes of 64, the United States Court of Appeals affirmed. The second time the President took the case to the United States Supreme Court, which affirmed Judge Sirica's ruling as well, in a landmark decision that the President was subject to the orders of the High Court.
        The Court of Appeals also upheld the convictions, in early 1973, of the Watergate burglars -- the trial in which Judge Sirica began his efforts to dig out the facts of the Watergate case. The appeals court found some errors, but deemed them harmless, saying:
        "Judge Sirica's palpable search for the truth in such a trial was not only permissible, it was in the highest tradition of his office as a Federal judge."
        So, along the way, the Federal courthouse where he had his small courtroom, at the west end of the second floor, was added to the lists of sights on bus trips for tourists. Time magazine named him Man of the Year in 1973. Schools and bar associations begged him for speeches. Citizens from around the country wrote him their thanks.
        His face, like his name, became known everywhere, thanks to the news media -- a middle-aged face, younger looking than his years, rounded, somewhat wrinkled, with bushy dark eye brows and thick black hair. Traits and Beliefs For Role in History
        John Sirica played a remarkable role in an unprecedented national crisis.
        How it came about was in part happenstance, and part biography -- the result it seemed from hindsight -- of traits and habits and beliefs John Sirica developed over the years before Watergate.
        The happenstance was simple. He was appointed to the Federal bench by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1957; in 1971, by virtue of seniority, he became Chief Judge of his court and thus could assign cases to himself. When the Watergate burglary case came to court, Judge Sirica exercised his option.
        He did so, he later said, partly because he felt that if he, a Republican, handled the case fairly and effectively, there could be no charges of political partisanship.
        Less simple to explain are the reasons he acted as he did once he got the case. But there were times earlier in his career when he exhibited at least some of the traits that became evident during the Watergate crisis.
        Toward the end of World War II, for instance, he took a job as counsel to a House select committee investigating the Federal Communications Commission.
        Evidence turned up that high Administration figures may have used pressure to get the license of radio station WMCA transferred, and some committee members sought to close the inquiry.
        John Sirica resigned, saying, "I don't want it on my conscience that anyone can say John Sirica, a resident of the District for many years, is a party to a whitewash."
        Often during Watergate, Judge Sirica was stern and somewhat pro-prosecution. But he had been at least as stern in earlier criminal cases, sentencing convicted defendants to long terms, thus earning the nickname "maximum John."
        He said during the Watergate trial that he did not intend to try the case according to "strict rules of evidence" and insisted that he was in charge of the courtroom and that the lawyers obey him. His attitude toward his role seemed to stem from his experience both as a judge and as a trial lawyer.
        "A defendant is entitled to a fair trial, but they can't get a perfect trial," he remarked once during the Watergate case. "There's no such thing as a perfect trial."
        In an interview, responding to a newspaper columnist's statement that he was not an "intellectual," he said:
        "If it means writing books and that kind of thing, then I'm not. But a great intellectual doesn't make a great trial judge. A man who's been a trial judge is a better judge of human nature than Professor X of Harvard, who's probably never been in the well of a courtroom. I've been a prosecutor, a defense lawyer, a counsel to a very important investigation on the Hill. I'm a realist as opposed to a theorist, you know me. Appeals court judges don't have to shoot from the hip. They have the leisure to think, to decide. We have to make decisions in a split second, whether to sustain or overrule an objection."
        Often in the various Watergate proceedings, Judge Sirica seemed propelled by a great love of his country, and an anger about what was being done to it by its officials. On Feb. 2, 1973, for instance, at a bail hearing shortly after the end of the Watergate burglary trial, he said:
        "I would hope frankly -- not only as a judge but as a citizen of a great country and one of millions of Americans who are looking for certain answers -- I would hope that the Senate is granted power by Congress by a broad enough resolution to get to the bottom of what happened in this case."
        The conventional wisdom was that it was a typical sentiment for an immigrant's child -- particularly one who had started out poor and worked his way up, to a comfortable life and some standing in his community. Law School at 17 And Then Boxing
        John Sirica was born in Waterbury, Conn., on March 19, 1904. His father, Fred, who had emigrated from a village near Naples in 1887, worked as a barber. His mother, Rose, ran a grocery store. It was, Judge Sirica later said "an uphill fight against poverty."
        The family, including a brother, Andrew, moved several times, to Jacksonville, Fla., New Orleans, Richmond, and then, when John was 14, to Washington.
        Along the way, he helped out, working once as a waiter, another time selling newspapers.
        At 17, he enrolled in George Washington University Law School. He found, he said, "everything was over his head," and after a month, dropped out. He learned boxing at the local Y.M.C.A.
        He enrolled in law school again, this time at Georgetown, he finished in 1926, took the bar exam, and then went to Miami, where his family was, and signed up as a boxer. In one fight, young John Sirica -- 150 pounds, somewhere between 5 feet 6 inches and 5 feet 7 -- won in 10 rounds against a 6-foot-1-inch professional named Tommy Thompson.
        Apparently, Mrs. Sirica thought her son was wasting his education. Perhaps as a result, he came back to Washington, and set up a law office. Then, from 1930 to 1934, he was an assistant United States attorney. He went back into private practice afterward -- having a hard time, at first, finding enough cases.
        He became increasingly involved in politics -- he gave speeches supporting local Republican Party candidates and eventually, he worked in five national campaigns.
        He had some good cases, too. He represented Walter Winchell in a $200,000 libel suit brought by the publisher Eleanor Patterson. Mr. Sirica urged his client not to settle; the columnist followed his advice, and Mrs. Patterson dropped her case.
        In World War II, he tried to get a Navy commission, but failed for physical reasons. He had met Jack Dempsey, the boxer, while representing a fight promoter some years before, so during much of the war, he toured the country with Mr. Dempsey on bond-selling drives.
        Then came his stint on the Congressional committee after which he joined the well regarded Washington firm of Hogan & Hartson, becoming its chief trial lawyer.
        At the age of 47, he ended a long career as a bachelor by marrying Lucille Camalier. They had three children -- John Jr., Patricia Ann and Eileen Marie.
        He seemed an indulgent and devoted father. On one weekend in October 1973, when reporters tried in vain to reach Judge Sirica, he was out of town showing his older daughter a college that she was considering attending.
        President Nixon had just ordered the dismissal of Archibald Cox, the Watergate special prosecutor. Mr. Cox had demanded access to White House tape recordings. Elliot L. Richardson, then Attorney General, and William D. Ruckelshaus, his deputy, resigned rather than carry out Mr. Nixon's order. This was to become known as the Saturday night massacre.
        He brought his family to the convention of the American Bar Association in Montreal in the summer of 1975. As usual, he was the hero -- applauded, beseeched for autographs and photographed. But he made a point of introducing his children, whenever they stood near him.  Courtroom Humor And Testiness
        Judge Sirica was friendly, a little shy, modest and, in the word the press used most often to describe him, "unassuming."
        On March 18, 1974, for example, the day Judge Sirica announced that he would turn over the secret Watergate grand jury report on Mr. Nixon to the House Judiciary Committee, the Federal judges of the District of Columbia Circuit were holding their annual conference. Judge Sirica was to step down the next day as Chief Judge of the District Court because he was turning 70, and the other judges honored him at lunch with a brass ship's clock.
        "It's hard for a person like myself to say how I really feel today," he said in response.
        Then he had to call his office. So he stood in line, at a pay phone.
        He had a mild sense of humor; sometimes, he used it in court -- at times to ease the tension, at times just joining in the lawyers' jokes. At the Watergate cover-up trial in particular, three months long and marked by almost daily bickering as well as laughter, he too would smile and jest.
        One of the defense lawyers, representing H. R. Haldeman, who was Mr. Nixon's chief of staff, was an old friend, John J. Wilson. Mr. Wilson talked repeatedly of his "error bag" -- filled, he said, with supposed errors on the part of the judge that could win him reversal on appeal, should the trial end in conviction. One day, after yet another remark about the error bag, Judge Sirica said:
        "We might give the error bag another name. I've heard it described as not only your error bag, but your windbag."
        The audience roared.
        But Judge Sirica could also be testy. He also took an interest in news articles about him, and expressed hurt or surprise when they were critical.
        He was criticized for the lengthy "provisional" maximum sentences he threatened to impose on several of the Watergate burglary defendants. He told the defendants that when he handed down final sentences, he would take into account the extent of their cooperation. The thrust of the criticism was that a judge should not use sentencing for such a purpose, that he was overstepping his role as a judge.
        Judge Sirica defended his actions repeatedly, saying that the provisional sentences were required by law until he received pre-sentence reports from the probation authorities, and that he never intended to impose the maximum sentences. The sentences he finally handed down were substantially more lenient.
        Sometimes, Judge Sirica would defend himself in open court.
        Shortly after the first Watergate trial, in which he had been criticized, among other things, for questioning witnesses like Hugh W. Sloan, Jr., the treasurer of the Nixon campaign, he said:
        "I don't think a Federal judge should sit up on a bench -- particularly in a case like this one, with great public interest in it -- I don't think we should sit up here like nincompoops.
        "I had a right to question him to see that all the facts are brought out. I don't make any apologies to the attorneys or to anybody else of the court of appeals, if they should look at it.
        "I'm glad I did it, if I had it to do over, I would do the same, and that's the end of it."
        In addition to his son, a reporter in the Washington bureau of Newsday, Judge Sirica is survived by his wife Lucile; two daughters, Patricia Kane of Bethesda, Md., and Eileen Cardillo of Canton, Mich., and five grandchildren.
      