
        T. Eric Embry, a retired justice of the Alabama Supreme Court, died Sunday in Birmingham. He was 70 years old and lived in Birmingham.
        Justice Embry, who as a trial lawyer represented The New York Times in what became the landmark libel case New York Times Company v. Sullivan, died of cancer, said Robert G. Esdale, the clerk of the Alabama Supreme Court.
        On March 29, 1960, a New York group hoping to raise money for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and for students involved in sit-ins ran a full-page advertisment in The New York Times, detailing racism in the South and criticizing "Southern violators of the Constitution."
        Though no names were mentioned in the advertisement, L. B. Sullivan, a city commissioner in Montgomery, Ala., asserted that The Times accused him of "grave misconduct" and "improper actions and omissions as an official of the City of Montgomery." He sued for libel. Many Turned Down Case
        Several major Alabama law firms declined to represent The Times, but Mr. Embry, then a partner in the Birmingham firm of Beddow, Embry & Beddow, accepted the case.
        "Eric wasn't afraid of unpopular causes," Mr. Esdale said.
        Mr. Sullivan won a $500,000 judgment against The Times after a trial in which Mr. Embry was the lead defense lawyer. But after a lengthy appeal process, in which Mr. Embry assisted other lawyers, the judgment was set aside by the United States Supreme Court in 1964. The Court held that public officials must prove "actual malice" before they can recover damages in libel suits.
        In his 1991 book, "Make No Law," Anthony Lewis described the ruling as "a transforming judgment."
        "The Court used to the full its extraordinary power to lay down the fundamental rules of our national life," Mr. Lewis wrote. "It made clearer than ever that ours is an open society, whose citizens may say what they wish about those who temporarily govern them." Fourth-Generation Lawyer
        Born June 14, 1921, in Pell City, Ala., Thomas Eric Embry was the fourth generation of Embry lawyers and judges. After serving as a captain in the infantry in the Pacific theater during World War II, he earned a law degree from the University of Alabama in 1947. He initially practiced law with his father in Pell City, near Birmingham, before joining the firm headed by Roderick Beddow, the leading criminal defense lawyer in Alabama.
        He remained with the firm until his election to the state's high court in 1974. Citing failing health, he retired from the court in 1985.
        Mr. Embry's wife, the former Bedford Stall, died in 1983. He is survived by two daughters, Corinne Embry Vickers of Birmingham and Alden Embry Burchfield of Theodore, Ala., and five grandchildren.
      