
        The Very Rev. Laurence J. McGinley, S.J., president of Fordham University from 1949 to 1963 and a major figure in the creation of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died on Saturday in Murray Weigel Hall, the infirmary for retired Jesuits at Fordham's campus at Rose Hill, in the Bronx. He was 86 years old.
        A spokeswoman for Fordham said the cause of death was old age.
        Witty, urbane, erudite and polished, Father McGinley was regarded as the quintessential Jesuit educator and what The New York Times once called "a New Yorker in the finest sense of the word."
        He was born on West 105th Street in Manhattan, the son of James and Alice McCabe McGinley. His father had for many years been chief of staff to the Commissioner of Accounts for New York City. Father McGinley grew up in Brooklyn, attended Public School 128 there and later studied at Xavier High School in Manhattan. He entered the Society of Jesus in 1922 and studied at St. Andrews-on-Hudson, Poughkeepsie, and Woodstock College in Maryland.
        Father McGinley was ordained to the priesthood in 1935. He received his licentiate in sacred theology in 1936. For a brief time thereafter, he served as chaplain of the City Home Hospital on Welfare Island, now known as Roosevelt Island. In 1937, he began graduate work in Rome at the Gregorian University and Biblical Institute and received his doctorate in sacred theology there in 1939. For a few months before the outbreak of World War II, he ran Vatican City's radio station. As the war began, he returned to the United States to teach at Woodstock College and to edit "Theological Studies," a Jesuit publication. He also wrote many scholarly articles for other Jesuit publications.
        His abilities as an educational administrator at Fordham were widely praised, but the creation of Fordham's campus on West 60th Street in Manhattan was considered to be one of his greatest achievements. His feelings about New York City were such that he felt strongly that Fordham should become even more influential as a metropolitan university. As a result, the university made the Manhattan campus home to four of its graduate schools: law, education, social services and business administration.
        "Ours is a double educational tradition," Father McGinley said in a speech when Fordham's Lincoln Center project was begun more than three decades ago. "Fordham at Rose Hill will continue to have a campus of elm-lined paths and ivied walls and ancient academic heritage; Fordham at Lincoln Square will continue to provide the daily meeting and mingling of town and gown."
        Father McGinley's interest in Lincoln Center was by no means limited to Fordham and he actively worked for the health of all the cultural institutions there. In 1964, he received an honorary doctorate from New York University for his efforts, at which time he was praised for his "extraordinary zeal in fostering artistic achievement" at Lincoln Center.
        Although Father McGinley believed strongly in the civilizing effect Lincoln Center would have on all New York, he admitted that he "almost fainted" when the planner Robert Moses asked him how many acres Fordham wanted to develop for its own purposes. "I had never heard anyone speaking of New York streets as acres," Father McGinley said.
        In his work for Lincoln Center, Father McGinley collaborated closely with Mr. Moses, Avery Fisher, Alice Tully and Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
        Father McGinley also oversaw a major expansion of Fordham at Rose Hill, including the rebuilding of classrooms, the construction of a residence hall and of a student campus center. The center was named for him in the 1980's.
        During his administration, Fordham also instituted an honors program, a program for students to spend their junior year abroad and another program in Russian studies.
        Father McGinley was active in professional organizations and during his tenure at Fordham served as president of the Middle States Association of College and Secondary Schools as well as the association's Commission on Institutions of Higher Learning.
        After his retirement, he remained active in academic circles and served for a time as a vice president for college relations at St. Peter's College in Jersey City. In 1985 Fordham established the Laurence J. McGinley Chair in Religion and Society.
        Father McGinley is survived by a younger brother, the Rev. James McGinley, who is also a Jesuit and who is a former president of Canisius College in Buffalo.
      