
        Lindsley F. Kimball, a longtime Rockefeller family associate who organized the New York Blood Center and also headed the U.S.O. and National Urban League, died on Sunday at his home in Newtown, Pa. He was 97 years old.
        He died of an intestinal hemorrhage, a family spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Kimball led the founding of the blood center, the nation's largest, in the early 1960's. The center ended the chaos in the region's blood supply that sometimes resulted in tainted blood donations and shortages that delayed operations and even forced emergency transfusions with wrong blood types.
        The new centralized system serves metropolitan New York and New Jersey and distributes a tenth of the nation's blood bank supply. Its research center, named for Dr. Kimball, identified and isolated hepatitis B virus and helped develop a hepatitis B vaccine.
        The blood center was only one of many charitable and social service agencies to which Dr. Kimball applied his organizational skills until his retirement in 1979. A Presidential Medal
        In World War II and the Korean War, he served as president of the United Service Organizations, the coalition of groups assisting American military men and women. His efforts won a presidential medal from Harry S. Truman.
        For several years he served as president of the National Urban League, where he recruited Whitney Young as executive director.
        Dr. Kimball also was the national fund-raising chairman for the United Negro College Fund for several years and the vice president of the General Education Board, an organization supporting higher education.
        He conducted a study that led to the formation of the Greater New York branch of the American Red Cross in a merger of its borough units and also helped create the national Council on Foundations.
        His positions with the Rockefeller family included executive vice president of the Rockefeller Foundation, trustee and treasurer of Rockefeller University, associate of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and aide to John D. Rockefeller Jr. A Wartime Invention
        Mr. Kimball was born in Brooklyn. He graduated from Columbia University in 1917.
        In World War I, he served four years in the United States Navy. There he invented a mathematical device to adjust the aim of turret guns for the listing of a ship. He became the commanding officer of a submarine-chasing squadron and reached the rank of lieutenant.
        After the war Mr. Kimball worked four years in the managerial offices of the Underwood Typewriter Company and studied accounting.
        His career in nonprofit work began as a young Sunday school superintendent at St. Paul's Congregational Church in Brooklyn. Under his direction, enrollment multiplied from fewer than 100 to more than 500. His church work continued for decades. In Manhasset, L.I., where he lived much of his life, he was founding member of the Congregational Church and supervised its school as its rolls grew to more than 1,000.
        His next cause was the Boy Scouts of America. He founded a troop in Brooklyn and eventually left his job at Underwood to become the full-time chief executive of the Brooklyn Council, the nation's largest. His work earned high ratings and led to regional and national scouting posts.
        While with the Boy Scouts, Mr. Kimball resumed his studies and earned a doctorate in economics and sociology from New York University in 1930.
        In 1938 he became a top officer in the new Greater New York Fund, which later merged with United Way. His work there with corporate executives caught the attention of Mr. Rockefeller, who recruited him to work on special projects.
        Surviving are his wife of nearly 66 years, the former Maude Kouwenhoven; two sons, Richard T. of Wyomissing, Pa., and Dean F. of Westford, Mass.; 12 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      