
        Paul Haakon, a ballet and Broadway dancer of the 1920's and 30's, died on Sunday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of cancer, said Rita Sears, a friend.
        The Danish-born Mr. Haakon was considered by many to be among the great male ballet dancers of the 20th century. As a child, he was adopted by a man who insisted that he train as a ballet dancer. He studied at the Royal Opera House in Copenhagen and in the United States with Theodore Kosloff, Adolph Bolm and Mikhail Mordkin.  With an Early Start
        After making his stage debut at the age of 15 with Michel Fokine, Mr. Haakon went on to dance in Europe with Anton Dolin and Anna Pavlova, whose widower, Victor Dandre, sponsored Mr. Haakon's first tour as a solo performer. He was particularly known for his character dancing, in Spanish, American Indian and Russian dances.
        Mr. Haakon made the first of his enormously successful appearances on Broadway in the 1933 musical "Champagne Sec," followed by Vincente Minnelli's "At Home Abroad" (1935), "The Show Is On" (1936) and "Hooray for What!" (1937). Mr. Haakon also danced as a headline act in vaudeville and at Radio City Music Hall, where he appeared with Patricia Bowman. In 1935, he was invited to join the American Ballet, the forerunner of the New York City Ballet, but he danced with the company only briefly, finding ballet's low salaries an unaffordable luxury.
        Mr. Haakon stopped dancing in the early 1940's, returning to perform in television revues of the mid-1940's and choreographing and dancing in Mike Todd's Broadway musical "Mexican Hayride" (1944). During World War II he toured with the United Service Organizations, then went on to work as an assistant choreographer and dancer in Warner Brothers films. His last job in dance was with the Jose Greco Spanish Ballet, first as a performer, then as ballet master and production manager. Mr. Haakon retired from dance in 1970, earning a living as a salesman and mail handler.
        He is survived by his wife, Violet; a son, Christopher, of Virginia; two daughters, Paula Stankovich of Placentia, Calif., and Dana Ferelli of North Hollywood, Calif.; a brother, Bent of Denmark; a sister, Grete, of Copenhagen, and nine grandchildren.
      