
        William Taylor, one of the nation's senior banking regulators, died this morning at Fairfax Hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 53 years old.
        Mr. Taylor, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation since October, died of complications after undergoing surgery for colon blockage on Aug. 13, a spokesman for the agency said. The spokesman, Alan Whitney, said Mr. Taylor had developed pneumonia over the weekend and had had a heart attack this morning.
        Mr. Taylor headed the F.D.I.C. at a pivotal point in the nation's banking crisis. A career regulator, he earned the high regard of Republicans in the White House and Democrats in Congress at a time when regulation had become increasingly partisan. Praised as Man of Integrity
        "He was an extraordinary person -- a well-respected and extremely capable public servant of unquestioned integrity," said Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, who was a close friend.
        Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, the Texas Democrat who heads the House Banking Committee, said Mr. Taylor's death "is a loss to the nation."
        "Of all the regulators I have known during nearly 31 years on the committee," Mr. Gonzalez said, "Bill Taylor stands out pre-eminently as the man who stood up to the most powerful political and financial forces in our country, never compromising his integrity."
        Mr. Taylor was among the most seasoned financial regulators in Washington. He was the American representative in London last year coordinating the worldwide seizure of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International. A few months before that, he was the Federal Reserve's top man for the rescue of the Bank of New England. And in the mid-1980's he was involved in supervising banking crises in Ohio and Maryland.
        When Mr. Taylor was sworn in as the F.D.I.C.'s 15th chairman on Oct. 25, to replace L. William Seidman, he took over the leadership of an agency that had been battered by hundreds of bank failures and run out of money to protect depositors at weak and insolvent banks. The agency was facing the prospect of a wave of bank failures that many experts said had threatened the collapse of the financial system and could be averted only through a huge infusion of taxpayer money. Pressure on Bank Regulators
        Further complicating the agency's job was the emergence of a new climate of tighter lending, prompting the Bush Administration to chastise regulators and push them hard to ease lending restrictions and encourage banks toward making more loans.
        In the last few months, he faced the skepticism of members of Congress who accused his agency of delaying the seizure of scores of institutions until after Election Day and the criticism of bankers who insisted that the worst was over and there was no reason to increase the insurance premiums they paid, eating into their profits.
        Mr. Taylor's approach to bank regulation was to chart a middle course. In the first days of his tenure, he pushed Congress hard and quickly received a large taxpayer loan of more than $70 billion to bail out the Bank Insurance Fund. Later, he led the agency to increase the contributions paid by banks into the insurance fund. That effort came in the face of an intensive lobbying effort by the banks and the Bush Administration to keep the premiums from rising.
        Often self-depreciating and dry in his humor, he confided in May on the eve of the vote on bank premiums that he had "felt enormous pressure everywhere" and that he had told his wife that after the job was done he might be pumping gasoline.
        "That's self-service for you," he said.
        On other issues, Mr. Taylor signaled his willingness to work with the White House. He took steps to make it easier for banks to challenge those bank examinations that were considered too tough and discouraged lending. He kept a file in his desk of complaints and frequently told officials in the field offices that the agency would not tolerate regulators who were unfairly hard on the banks. Proposal for 'Bank Hospitals'
        One of his highest and most controversial priorities was trying to resolve the problems of ailing banks without liquidating them. He spoke frequently of "bank hospitals" in which a staff of bankers would take over weak institutions on behalf of the Government and nurse them back to health before they were sold.
        And, in a few instances, he took the approach of bailing out institutions that some argued would have been less expensive to just sell or close.
        His decision to invest in Crossland Savings at a cost of $1.2 billion, rather than sell it or close it, encountered significant criticism. He reached the decision after walking through Brooklyn and concluding that closing the institution, New York's largest savings bank, could have a devastating impact on the local economy.
        In recent weeks, facing pressure from the industry, he refused to revise the agency's estimates of the possible Government costs of rescuing the banking industry, even though many banks around the nation had posted significant profits and benefited enormously from declining interest rates.
        He arrived at the F.D.I.C. after serving as head of banking supervision at the Federal Reserve Board, where he was Mr. Greenspan's right-hand man. Despite his added responsibilities and increased stature, he was paid $35,000 less in his new post than his $150,000 salary at the Federal Reserve.
        A native of Chicago, Mr. Taylor joined the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago as a bank examiner in 1961 after graduating from Cornell College in Mount Vernon, Iowa. In 1968 he joined Chicago's Upper Avenue Bank as vice president in charge of lending. In 1972 he became manager of the Chicago office of James W. Rouse & Company, a real estate development and mortgage banking firm, and returned to the Federal Reserve in 1976.
        Mr. Taylor's is survived by his wife, Sharon; two daughters, Claire and Emily, and a son, William Taylor 3d, who is a sophomore at North Carolina State University.
      