
        Mark Edwin Andrews, an oil executive and former Navy official, died on Saturday at his home in Houston. He was 88 years old and also had homes on Fishers Island, N.Y., and in Ireland.
        He died after a recent stroke, his family said.
        For the last 35 years Mr. Andrews was the president of Ancon Oil & Gas, which he founded. Earlier he bought, reorganized and was chairman of Dixel Manufacturing, an oil equipment company. He also was an independent oil producer and served as president of Westmoreland Manufacturing and Andrews, Loop & Company, a cotton exporter.
        During and after World War II, he served the Navy in a succession of posts. Starting in 1942 as a lieutenant, he was promoted to lieutenant commander, commander and captain as he was put in charge of buying airplanes, engines and ships.
        In 1946 he was made chief of Navy procurement. That same year he won the Navy's Legion of Merit and drafted the Armed Services Procurement Act governing military and, later, space agency contracts. From 1947 to 1949, he was the Assistant Secretary of the Navy, in charge of procurement, supplies, civilian personnel, shipyards, oil reserves, budgeting and expenditures. Wrote on Legal Issues
        Over the years he served as a part-time law instructor, director of the English Speaking Union, advisory chairman of the Bayou Bend House, president of the Japan-American Society of Houston, trustee of the Houston Museum of Fine Arts and vestryman and warden of St. John's Episcopal Church on Fishers Island.
        He wrote "Law vs. Equity in the 'Merchant of Venice' " (Colorado University Press, 1965), and books on the oil business and on his Navy experiences. He served on the boards of the Fishers Island Development Corporation and the Bank of the Southwest.
        Mr. Andrews was born in Houston. After graduating from Princeton University in 1927, he worked in the cotton business and graduated from the South Texas College of Law in 1934.
        He was married for 19 years to Marguerite McLellan, who died in 1946.
        He is survived by his wife of 44 years, the former Lavone Dickensheets; a daughter, Marguerite McLellan Andrews Randall of Washington; a son, Mark 3d of Manhattan and Houston, and two grandchildren.
      