
        William A. Swanberg, the author of a Pulitzer Prize-winning biography of Henry R. Luce, died on Thursday at his home in Southbury, Conn. He was 84 years old.
        His son, John , said his father, who had continued to write book reviews, died of heart failure.
        Mr. Swanberg had 10 books to his credit. He was the subject of a public row in 1962 when his biography of William Randolph Hearst, "Citizen Hearst," narrowly missed being awarded a Pulitzer. An advisory board recommmended the book, but the trustees of Columbia University rejected it.
        It was the first time in 46 years of the Pulitzer Prizes that the trustees had rejected the board's recommendation, apparently because they did not consider the subject's character lofty enough for the prize under the bylaws. There was no award for biography that year, but the rejection sent buyers into bookstores in droves. No Argument for the Next
        Eleven years later, Mr. Swanberg won a Pulitzer for "Luce and His Empire," the life of the co-founder of Time Inc. That award was made without an argument.
        The author's reputation rested on his scrupulous attention to detail while writing entertainingly of "people about whose careers there may be considerable disagreement," as he put it. Among his favorites were 19th- and early-20th-century American entrepreneurs whose colorful feats are given short shrift in traditional history books.
        All his books were published by Charles Scribner's Sons.
        Mr. Swanberg won a National Book Award in 1977, again in biography, for "Norman Thomas: The Last Idealist," the life of the American Socialist politician and perennial candidate for President.
        His first book, published in 1956, was "Sickles the Incredible," about Gen. Daniel Edgar Sickles, a Civil War commander and New York Democrat who helped to establish Central Park. That was followed in 1957 by "First Blood: The Story of Fort Sumter."
        "Jim Fisk" (1959) told the tale of James Fisk, the flamboyant financier known as the "Barnum of Wall Street." "Dreiser" (1965) was a biography of the author Theodore Dreiser. "Pulitzer" (1967) was about Hearst's rival Joseph Pulitzer, the St. Louis and New York editor and publisher who endowed the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism, where the prizes named after him are given out yearly.
        Mr. Swanberg's last book, "Whitney Father, Whitney Heiress," was published in 1980. It is a family portrait of John Hay Whitney, the New York publisher and former United States Ambassador to Britain, and his daughter Dorothy. . Odd Jobs and Book Reviews
        William Andrew Swanberg was born in St. Paul and graduated from the University of Minnesota with a major in world literature. He ran out of money in graduate school in the middle of the Depression, and sustained himself with odd jobs. He also began to write book reviews for the newspapers.
        In 1943 he was given a job by the Office of War Information and, after the war, turned to freelance work as a magazine writer. It gave him enough of a cushion to do research and write about General Sickles. His book reviews continued to appear, including many in The New York Times.
        Mr. Swanberg is survived by his wife of 56 years, the former Dorothy Upham Green; his son, a resident of Branford, Conn.; a daughter, Sara Valborg Swanberg of Corvallis, Ore., and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  September 24, 1992, ThursdaySeptember 30, 1992, Wednesday
        An obituary on Saturday about the author William A. Swanberg misidentified the subjects of his last book, "Whitney Father, Whitney Heiress." They were William Collins Whitney, Secretary of the Navy in the first Cleveland Administration, and his daughter, Dorothy, not the publisher John Hay Whitney and his daughter, Dorothy.
        An obituary on Sept. 19 about the author William A. Swanberg and a related correction in this space last Thursday referred erroneously to the subjects of his last book, "Whitney Father, Whitney Heiress." They were William Collins Whitney, Secretary of the Navy in the first Cleveland Administration, and his daughter, Dorothy. The book did not deal with the publisher John Hay Whitney, who in any case did not have a daughter named Dorothy.
      