
        Gladwin Hill, a journalist who in 44 years with The New York Times pioneered environmental reporting and described for a generation of readers Los Angeles's growth from an outpost to a metropolis, died this evening at his home here. He was 78 years old.
        Mr. Hill, a heavy smoker, died of lung cancer after a seven-month battle with the disease, said his wife, Carole Fordham Hill.
        From 1969 until his retirement in 1979, he served as national environmental correspondent for The Times, the first reporter at the newspaper and one of the first in the nation to cover the environment full time. Although he lived in Los Angeles, he frequently traversed the country in the 1970's to report on issues of pollution and conservation that had only just begun to register in the national consciousness.
        "Gladwin Hill helped open up a whole new field of reporting, and became enormously important to the country and to journalism," said A.M. Rosenthal, former executive editor of The Times and now a columnist. "He had tremendous journalistic skills, and a deep interest in the environment long before it was fashionable." Roots in New England
        Born in Boston in 1914, Mr. Hill graduated from the Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., in 1932, and from Harvard College in 1936.
        He began his career in journalism as an 18-year-old college freshman, writing for The Boston Transcript. After graduating from Harvard, he was hired by The Associated Press, where he won coveted assignments as a columnist and a writer of features, roaming from coast to coast in search of material.
        In 1942, in New York, he married Elisita Stuntz, a native of Cuba. In the same year he was sent by The Associated Press to London as a war correspondent. For two years, he covered the Allied air campaign against Germany, alongside his arch competitor, Walter Cronkite, who was then with United Press International. Aboard a Bomber
        Tall, handsome, a natty dresser and possessed of a deep, resonant voice, Mr. Hill stood out even in the august company of the journalists gathered in London during World War II. But it was his aggressive reporting that attracted the most notice. He became the first reporter to fly aboard an American bomber on a raid into Germany, and he witnessed the Allied invasion of France in 1944 from another bomber. A few months later, he reopened the A.P. bureau in Paris.
        Mr. Hill joined The Times in January 1945 and covered the Allied march eastward, becoming one of the first reporters to enter Berlin and one of the first to cross into Poland.
        In 1946, Mr. Hill established the first Times news bureau in Los Angeles, becoming one of the first correspondents for an Eastern newspaper, aside from Hollywood reporters, to be based here. He served as bureau chief for 23 years, with responsibility for a region that spanned several states, covering everything from atomic weapons testing to the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy in 1968.
        "He understood the importance of California long before the competition did," said the author David Halberstam, a former Times reporter. "He understood that California was going to be California, a post-World War II Mecca, when all the rest of us thought it was a sleepy place." 'From the Old School'
        In a city that valued the casual, Mr. Hill, with his courtly manners and dress, cut an imposing figure. "He came from the old school that had a certain gentlemanliness," said Jack Langguth, a former Times reporter who worked with Mr. Hill and is now a professor of journalism at the University of Southern California. "When you walked into a room full of reporters, you had no doubt that Gladwin, with his Brooks Brothers suit and bow tie, represented The New York Times."
        Mr. Hill's book, "Dancing Bear: An Inside Look at California Politics" (The World Publishing Company, 1968), is still considered a definitive account of the political scene that gave rise to Earl Warren, Edmund G. (Pat) Brown and Ronald Reagan.
        He also wrote "Madman in a Lifeboat: Issues of the Environmental Crisis" (Quadrangle-John Day, 1973).
        His first wife died in 1977. In addition to his wife of five years, he is survived by a daughter, Sandra E. Barton of Grant Park, Ill.; a son, David Hill of Oakland, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      