
        Warren Moscow, a political reporter for The New York Times who became a top aide to Mayor Robert F. Wagner, died yesterday at his farmhouse in Putnam Valley, N.Y. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Moscow, who had been ill for the last two years, died of complications from diabetes, said his son, John Warren Moscow, an assistant district attorney in Manhattan.
        Mr. Moscow, the author of an influential book about the mechanics of politics in New York State, was considered during his 22-year career at The Times from 1930 to 1952 to be one of the leading political reporters of his time.
        It was that expertise, as well as close contact with state and local officials, that attracted Mr. Wagner. As Manhattan Borough President in 1952, Mr. Wagner appointed Mr. Moscow the Commissioner of Borough Works of Manhattan.
        Then as Mayor, Mr. Wagner named Mr. Moscow to a series of positions, including special assistant in 1954, executive director of the Housing Authority in 1955 and executive assistant to the Mayor in 1958. Mr. Moscow left public service in 1961. A Political Pragmatist
        "During his first two terms, Warren was one of the people he depended most on," said the late Mayor's son, Robert F. Wagner Jr., former president of the city's Board of Education. "The comment he would most often make is how he would have a 15-minute conversation about a speech and within an hour a draft had come back reflecting what they had talked about."
        Mr. Moscow, who smoked a corn-cob pipe and worked heavily behind the scenes, was known as a political pragmatist who believed that the machine politics of the day, despite many shortcomings, provided durable and active leadership. Mayor Wagner's son said Mr. Moscow and his father ultimately split after the Mayor began his fight with Carmine G. De Sapio, the last major boss of Tammany Hall.
        "Warren felt it was a mistake on my father's part to get into the fight," Mr. Wagner said. "His reasons were that practically it was inadvisable and second that a strong party organization was helpful in making government work." Born in Brooklyn
        Born in Brooklyn on March 15, 1908, Mr. Moscow was one of three brothers who became reporters in New York City. His older brother, Henry, who died in 1984, was managing editor for The New York Post. His stepbrother, Alvin, now 66 and living in Gainesville, Ga., worked for The Associated Press.
        Mr. Moscow graduated from Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn. He began his career in journalism in 1926, when was hired as one of the three reporters at The Brooklyn Citizen, intending to work his way through a law program at Columbia University.
        But he shortly dropped out of college and in 1928 he began working for The New York American, owned by William Randolph Hearst.
        In 1930, he was hired at The Times. Two years later he began to focus on politics and in 1938 he was named Albany bureau chief. He reported on the legislative sessions until 1944, when he was sent by The Times to the Pacific to cover Navy headquarters in Guam and American bomber raids in Japan.
        In 1948, he wrote the first of his four books, "Politics in the Empire State" (Alfred Knopf), which examined both the peculiarly local traits of New York politics and why the state was so influential in fielding national candidates and electing Presidents.
        Mr. Moscow's other books were: "What Have You Done for Me Lately: The Ins and Outs of New York City Politics" (Prentice-Hall, 1967); "Roosevelt and Willkie" (Prentice-Hall, 1968) and "The Last of the Big-Time Bosses" (Stein and Day, 1971). 'A Natural Step'
        In 1952, he left The Times to work for Mr. Wagner, a move his brother Alvin called "a natural step."
        "He knew everybody in New York politics," his brother said.
        During his time in government, Mr. Moscow developed a reputation as a clear thinker, eager to see results. At the Housing Authority, he was a driving force behind trying to spread projects thoughout a neighborhood rather than create "mini-cities" of public housing.
        "People said Warren was an acquired taste," his brother said. "He didn't suffer fools gladly. He could be short with people, but once you became a friend of his, and he had many friends, he was warm and giving. But outwardly he was all business."
        From 1963 to 1966, Mr. Moscow was the editor of The New York Law Journal. In the early 1970's, he was the director of the awards program for the Fund for the City of New York.
        He retired in the early 1980's, but until recently he contributed columns to The Chief, the weekly Civil Service newspaper in New York City.
        In 1948, Mr. Moscow and his wife bought an 18th-century farmhouse in Putnam Valley, where they spent their summers and weekends. His son said Mr. Moscow enjoyed growing apples on his 14 acres of land. One of the last things he ate was one of his own russet apples, recently ripened, his son said.
        Besides his son and brother, Mr. Moscow is survived by his wife of 46 years, Jean, a former editorial assistant at The New York Times, and two daughters, Katherine Alexis Moscow of Welkenraedt, Belgium, and Judith Heimann of Oxford, Md. Mr. Moscow was divorced from his first wife, Esther Loeb Moscow, Ms. Heimann's mother, in 1944. She died in 1989. He is also survived by a stepdaughter, Claire Holm of Herndon, Va., daughter of his first wife from a previous marriage.
      