
        David Bathurst, a former chairman of Christie's who resigned in 1985 after admitting he had falsified auction results, died in Scotland on Sunday. He was 54 years old and lived in London.
        He had a heart attack while shooting on the moors in Scotland, said Christopher Burge, the president of Christie's in New York.
        Mr. Bathurst, who joined Christie's in London in 1963 to start the auction house's modern-paintings department, was a prominent figure in the art world in both New York and London. He traveled extensively in the United States in the mid-1960's, laying the groundwork for a Christie's in America. He lived in New York from 1977 to 1984, when he left his post as president of Christie's in New York to become the chairman of the parent company in London.
        Shortly after his return to London, Mr. Bathurst became the first major auction-house official to be accused of making false statements to the press. He resigned after admitting that he had lied to the press four years earlier when he announced that two paintings had been sold for millions of dollars when, in fact, they attracted no significant bids and never found buyers.
        Mr. Bathurst's false sales report came to light when Dimitry Jodidio, a principal officer of Cristallina, an art dealership based in Lausanne, Switzerland, who owned the paintings, sued Christie's, contending that the auction house had failed to judge the art market accurately. After Justice Eugene R. Wolin of State Supreme Court in Manhattan dismissed the suit, Mr. Bathurst said he falsified the sales figures "to maintain stability in the art market."
        Mr. Bathurst was the son of the second Viscount Bledisloe. He was educated at Eton and Magdalen College, Oxford.
        Mr. Bathurst studied at the Carnegie Institute, which is part of the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh, in 1961. Shortly after that, he joined the Marlborough Gallery in London but left to join Christie's, which wanted to start a modern-paintings department. As one of the first high-ranking Christie's officials to locate permanently in New York, Mr. Bathurst played a central role in establishing the auction house's branch on Park Avenue in 1977. He became the president of Christie's in New York in 1978.
        After his resignation in 1985, he began St. James's Art Group in London, which deals in Impressionist and modern paintings and sculptures.
        Mr. Bathurst is survived by his wife, the former Cornelia McCosh, and three daughters, Arabella, Lucy and Flora, all of London.
      