
        Felix Guattari, a  psychoanalyst and philosopher who influenced the post-1968 generation of French intellectuals, died on Saturday at La Borde, the clinic 100 miles south of Paris where he had worked for four decades. He was 62 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, his publisher said.
        Mr. Guattari was probably best known abroad for a series of books he wrote with the philosopher Gilles Deleuze, but in France his fame stemmed as much from his unwavering questioning of the social, political and medical establishments.
        Born into a prosperous family in Colombes, near Paris, on April 30, 1930, he joined the French Communist Party as a young man but was expelled after opposing the Soviet invasion of Hungary in 1956. He nonetheless remained a man of the left and was active in the anti-Government movement of May 1968 in Paris.
        In the 1970's, he was attracted by other forms of political expression, including sexual liberation. He also founded two "free radio" stations in Paris that became forums for views that would normally not be heard on commercial radio or television. A Green, Defeated
        Most recently, Mr. Guattari became a strong supporter of France's small environmental movement, working to unite two rival groups, the Greens and Generation Ecologie. He ran as a Green candidate in regional elections in March but lost.
        In psychiatry, his work was closely identified with that of Jean Oury, who founded the clinic at La Borde, which is near Blois. It became known for its innovative treatment of mentally ill patients who were allowed to participate in running the clinic instead of being kept behind lock and key.
        Variously known as both an anti-psychoanalyst and an anti-philosopher, his books with Mr. Deleuze include "L'Anti-Oedipe" in 1972, "Kafka: Pour une Literature Mineure" in 1975 and "Rhizome" in 1976. Their latest book, published in 1991 and entitled "What Is Philosophy?," addresses power, space, languages, peoples and the State.
        No details on survivors were available. "He was a very secretive man," said an editor at Editions de Minuit, which published all his books.
      