
        Dr. David Bodian, a medical scientist and teacher whose work helped lay the groundwork for the Salk and Sabin polio vaccines, died Friday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 82 years old and lived in Baltimore.
        He died of Parkinson's disease, said Johns Hopkins University, with which Dr. Bodian had been associated since 1939.
        Dr. Bodian and his colleagues at Johns Hopkins in the 1940's and 1950's did much of the research that established that the polio virus that infected the body through the mouth and digestive tract was, in fact, three distinct viruses. Then they showed that antibodies to the virus were carried through the bloodstream. Developed Early Vaccine
        The experiments carried out by Dr. Bodian, Dr. Howard Howe and Dr. Isabel Morgan at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health established that an effective polio vaccine must have antibodies to fight all three viruses. The researchers went on to develop a vaccine that protected monkeys against polio and a vaccine used in an early inoculation project that raised the antibody levels of children.
        Born in St. Louis, Dr. Bodian received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago, where he also earned a doctorate in anatomy and, in 1937, a medical degree.
        He joined the School of Medicine at Johns Hopkins in 1939 to teach and do research and received an additional appointment to the faculty of the School of Public Health three years later. A full professor since 1957, he was director of the department of anatomy from then until 1976 and was professor of neurobiology and professor of anatomy when he reached emeritus status in 1977.
        In addition to the work on the vaccines, Dr. Bodian was credited with important contributions to the knowledge of the structure of nerve cells.
        Dr. Bodian is survived by his wife of 48 years, the former Elinor Widmont; three daughters, Brenda Jean Bodian of Baltimore, Helen Bodian of New York City and Marion Bodian of Ann Arbor, Mich.; two sons, Alexander D. of Pleasant Valley, Pa., and Marc of Denver; three sisters, Sara Lee Bodian of Baltimore, and Betty Bodian and Adeline Bodian, both of Chicago, and a brother, Alfred, of Washington.
      