
        Sir Geraint Evans, a Welsh baritone who was best known for his portrayals of Falstaff, Figaro and Leporello, died on Saturday at Bronglais Hospital in Aberystwyth, Wales. He was 70 years old and lived in Aberaeron, on the west coast of Wales.
        The Associated Press reported that he died of a heart attack.
        Sir Geraint was a mainstay of the Royal Opera House at Covent Garden from 1948, when he made his debut in Wagner's "Meistersinger," until 1984, when his performance in Donizetti's "Elisir d'Amore" was the occasion of an emotional farewell. In the 1960's and early 70's he was also a regular visitor to the Metropolitan Opera, where his performances in the title role of Verdi's "Falstaff" were widely admired. It was in that role that he made his debut in 1964, and his final Met appearance in 1972. His other Met roles included the title role in Mozart's "Nozze di Figaro," Leporello in "Don Giovanni," Pizarro in Beethoven's "Fidelio," Balstrode in Britten's "Peter Grimes," Beckmesser in "Die Meistersinger" and the title role in Berg's "Wozzeck."
        Geraint (pronounced geh-RHYNT, to rhyme with pint) Llewellyn Evans was born in Cilfynydd, a Welsh coal-mining town, on Feb. 16, 1922. The son of a miner, he began to study music in Cardiff when he was 17 years old. He served in the Royal Air Force during World War II, and immediately after the war was stationed in Hamburg, West Germany, where he worked as a programmer and occasional performer for the British Forces Radio Network. In 1946, the baritone Theo Hermann heard him in a radio recital and offered to become his teacher. Two years later, at age 26, Mr. Evans made his Covent Garden debut.
        His first big role at Covent Garden was Figaro, which won him considerable acclaim and invitations from other opera companies. He sang many Mozart roles at Glyndebourne between 1950 and 1961, and it was there that he gave his first performances as Falstaff, which eventually replaced Figaro as his signature role. He also sang at Salzburg, La Scala in Milan, the Vienna State Opera, the Lyric Opera of Chicago and the San Francisco Opera, and in 1971 he directed the Chicago company's production of Britten's "Billy Budd" (and sang the role of Claggart).
        He was seen frequently in television performances in Britain and the United States, and produced many programs for Welsh television. Among his many recordings are "Falstaff" and "Peter Grimes," both on London Records; "Le Nozze di Figaro" and "Die Meistersinger," both on Angel, and "L'Elisir d'Amore" on Sony Classical.
        A portly singer with a warm sound and solid dramatic instincts, Sir Geraint was considered to be at his best in comic roles. In 1959, he was made a Commander of the British Empire, and in 1969 he was knighted.
        He is survived by his wife, Brenda, and two sons.
      