
        Stanley Ross, a former journalist specializing in Latin American and Caribbean affairs, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Washington. A resident of Manhattan, he was 78 years old.
        His family said he died after a long illness. Further details were not released.
        A native of New York City, Mr. Ross attended City College and the University of Caracas, Venezuela. He began to travel widely in Latin America in the early 1940's, reporting for The New York Times and The Associated Press, among other news organizations.
        In 1947, he founded El Caribe, published in the Dominican Republic to serve the Caribbean region. He was its first editor and publisher. Edited El Diario
        Mr. Ross also edited The Amsterdam News in New York for a year, starting in 1950.
        From 1955 to 1962, he was the editor of El Diario de Nueva York, the city's largest Spanish-language daily, and exerted considerable influence in the Latin community. It was in that post that he became involved in publicizing the sensational disappearance in 1956 of Dr. Jesus Maria de Galindez, a Basque exile from Franco's Spain who worked as a journalist and lecturer at Columbia University.
        Before coming to New York, Dr. Galindez had lived in the Dominican Republic, where he incurred the wrath of the dictator Gen. Rafael Trujillo. His disappearance has never been fully explained but is widely assumed to have been the work of Trujillo agents.
        Dr. Galindez contributed a column to El Diario, and it was Mr. Ross who first reported him missing, touching off an intensive investigation by the local and federal authorities. Dr. Galindez was declared legally dead by a court in New York in 1963. Revival of Brooklyn Eagle
        Mr. Ross left the paper in 1962 to join in a effort to revive The Brooklyn Eagle, the daily once edited by Walt Whitman. He served as editor-in-chief and general manager, but the revival proved short-lived.
        Mr. Ross returned to Spanish-language journalism in 1963 as editor and associate publisher of the New York daily El Tiempo. He was ousted in a bitter proxy fight in 1969.
        In more recent years, Mr. Ross worked in advertising and public relations. He was a past president of the Latin American Writers Association and former member of the board of governors of the Brooklyn Museum.
        Mr. Ross is survived by a son, Michael of Washington, and one grandson.
      