
        Hal Hester, a co-creator of "Your Own Thing," the 1968 hit Off Broadway show that was the first rock musical and whose title became a youth-culture motto, died on Sept. 13 at the Rio Piedras Medical Center in Puerto Rico. He was 63 years and lived in Cayey, Puerto Rico.
        He died of diverticulitis, an intestinal ailment, said John Britton, a friend.
        Mr. Hester was a playwright, composer, nightclub owner and singer. His biggest success was "Your Own Thing," which he and Danny Apolinar conceived. They also wrote the music and lyrics. With Acclaim and Influence
        The Off Broadway show, a modern satire loosely based on Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night," ran three years in New York City and spawned seven simultaneous touring companies.
        It won the New York Drama Critics Circle Award as the best musical of 1968, a prize traditionally won by Broadway shows. "Hair" opened soon after, and a new rock musical genre was born, leading to "Jesus Christ Superstar," "Godspell" and many others.
        The show's title phrase, "your own thing," instantly became popular and expressed the uninhibited spirit of the social tumult of the 1960's and 70's youth culture, racial and sexual liberation, the antiwar movement, radicalism, protests and psychedelic drugs.
        A New York Times review by Clive Barnes called the musical "cheerful, joyful and blissfully irreverent to Shakespeare and everything else." Mr. Barnes wrote: "The humor of the show is light-fingered and lighthearted, and its vitality and charm are terrific. The music is always engaging."
        National General Pictures bought the movie rights for $500,000 -- an exceptional sum for an Off Broadway show in those days and 11 times the musical's original cost -- but the film was never produced.
        Mr. Hester composed 30 published tunes. His best known was "The Sand and the Sea" for Nat King Cole, which sold a million records. He also wrote for Gloria Lynne, Kaye Stevens and Roy Hamilton. And he wrote and recorded an RCA album, "Hal Hester Does His Thing."
        Mr. Hester was born in Paducah, Ky. He served in the United States Air Force and studied at the Conservatory of Music in Cincinnati.
        His survivors include his longtime business partner and companion, Julio Guasp; his father, Robert Hester, and two sisters, Sue Lawrence and Bettye England, all of Daytona, Fla.
      