
        If the General Motors Willow Run Assembly Plant, with 4,000 hourly workers, is a small town, then Bob Harlow is the mayor. He is the president of the auto workers' Local 1776. Only now, his town is going out of business. The cars it has been building will be produced instead in Arlington, Tex. Bob Harlow's people are scared about their futures. They want answers.
        When is the plant going to close? Should we move to Arlington? How do they treat blacks in Texas? If we don't go, will we get picked up at other plants in Michigan? How long will Arlington stay open? What about early retirement? What's going to happen after the contract expires? Why are they closing our plant?
        Wherever he goes, from the union hall to the plant to the supermarket to home, Mr. Harlow, a coal miner's son who went to work on the line 27 years ago, has to tell people he doesn't know. "We'll be open for sure through the end of March," he told retirees as they met over coffee and doughnuts in the union hall. "But things could change to maybe July, August or September."
        Red Evans, the financial secretary of the local, said: "When things are running smoothly, the president is about the best job in the world. Things hardly run smoothly anymore."
        These days, the president is busy arranging everything from retraining sessions to suicide prevention classes. He has had to make himself an instant expert on a subject he hates -- closing down a plant.
        The other morning a man who has spent more than 20 years on the assembly line took a chair in Mr. Harlow's small office at the union hall. "I have a 19-year-old retarded son," he said. "I can't move. I can't leave my son." What were his chances of getting a job at a plant in the area?
        Mr. Harlow, who is 46 years old and has four children of his own, was sympathetic. But he couldn't offer any guarantees.
        "All I can do is listen and tell them to get with their spouse and their children and talk it through," he said after the man left. "Some people I try to get into therapy. Families are in turmoil here. They don't know what's going to happen. They're worried about money. And when there's problems with money, love goes away."
        Just because he is president of the local doesn't mean he can get answers from the company. General Motors doesn't have all the answers either. A lot depends on the economy and how many cars people buy. Willow Run is only one of 21 plants that are destined to close by 1995 as the company struggles to recover from last year's record $4.5 billion loss. A Secretive Company
        But General Motors is also famous for its secrecy. It announced last February that because of overcapacity in the production of the Caprice and other large, rear-wheel-drive cars that Willow Run was building, production would be consolidated at Arlington. Sales of the Caprice were lagging badly. But the company has refused to specify its reasons for choosing Arlington.
        Reporters have been barred from Willow Run since before the announcement. A request from this reporter to accompany Mr. Harlow on one of his regular visits to the plant was refused.
        The company has said that most of the workers, whose average seniority is 20 years, will get jobs at other plants. About 400 men and women are expected to move to Arlington early next year. But it is still too soon to know who else will go where, or when. Everyone will receive nearly their full income, and benefits, until at least next September, when the current contract expires.
        When Mr. Harlow ran for president four years ago, he had no idea he would be presiding over the demise of the local. He had only hoped to clean it up -- Local 1776's then-president, Richard Debs, was packing a gun and operating behind closed doors.
        "It was very, very sleazy," said Jerry Clifton, the new bargaining chairman.
        During the campaign Mr. Harlow spent his nights hiding out in his basement. "Debs put out a contract on me," he said. The F.B.I., he said, had tipped him off but said they didn't have enough evidence to offer him protection. So he bought a gun.
        Another of Mr. Debs's opponents, Jesse Gray, was shot in the neck as he drove down the freeway to the plant. He had to retire on medical disability.
        Mr. Debs is in prison for trying to hire two men to frighten Mr. Harlow out of running against him. He was also convicted of another crime, the sexual assault of a 12-year-old boy.
        The local has cleared its name. Quality at the plant has been high. But the last car will roll off the line at the plant sometime next year. And then, if what happens in other plant closings is any precedent, Bob Harlow's local will be no more. The one-story concrete union hall, where workers hold meetings and wedding receptions, where Dolores LaFleur has had a job as a secretary for 24 years, will probably shut its doors.
        Last Feb. 3, Mr. Harlow and his wife, Kathy Kelsay, who is 32, had a baby, Jonathan. On Feb. 24, the union president stood near a podium in the plant as a General Motors vice president delivered the terrible news.
        "It ate my gut out," Mr. Harlow said.
        Mr. Evans, the financial secretary, said the stress took 20 pounds off Mr. Harlow last spring.
        But the other morning the president walked into the union hall singing a Motown tune. He wore blue jeans, a U.A.W. polo shirt, running shoes and a tiny gold replica of a Chevrolet around his neck. "We have to stay positive," he said. Some things that help: Country music on the radio of his 1990 Caprice, bowling Thursday nights with his buddies, walks with his children.
        And he is hopeful. "We're still fighting to get another product in here," he said. Another product is, of course, another car to build. "We tell everyone to work hard and keep the quality high and show the company what we can do," he said. But the company said its plans haven't changed.
        Bob Harlow, one of nine children, grew up in Bartley, W. Va., a coal mining town. "I wanted something more," he said, recalling his restlessness back in 1965, his senior year of high school.
        So, over Christmas break, he and his best friend, Harold Dunston, got in Harold's 1964 black Chevy and headed north, up Highway 23. They drove 500 miles in less than nine hours, straight to Detroit, the Motor City. Who needed a high school diploma? This was the industrial promised land, home of the Big Three -- General Motors, Ford and Chrysler.
        On Feb. 10, 1965, Mr. Harlow went to work at the huge General Motors Willow Run assembly plant here in Ypsilanti, 30 miles west of Detroit. He installed convertible tops on Chevrolets, lifting each one onto the car with a hoist, jumping into the back seat to bolt it down with an air gun, and then hopping out fast enough to catch the next car. They were rolling at 62 an hour.
        "I tell you what, it was so tiring I'd lay on my back on the floor on my break," Mr. Harlow said. "Sometimes I'd take my shirt off and wring it out." But no, he said, he never thought of quitting. The pay was $2.57 an hour, with plenty of overtime.
        "We were working 10, 11 1/2 hours a day," he said. "I didn't know there was that much money in the world. I was 18 years old, and I bought my first car -- a '57 Pontiac. I was working for General Motors. You think you're set. You think everything's taken care of. I thought I had the world by the tail."
        In 1967, along with scores of other young men from the plant, he went to Vietnam. Two years later, back on the line, as a replacement operator, he met a relief man named Randy Sinks, from Tennessee.
        "It seemed like we were a team after that," Mr. Harlow said. "Randy was my best friend."
        Mr. Sinks, who was a benefits representative, died suddenly in May of a heart attack. He had been mowing the lawn. He was 49 years old.
        "I can't believe the stress over the plant closing didn't have something to do with it," Mr. Harlow said. His eyes filled as he talked about how much he missed his friend.
        "I sent Bob to the doctor for a full examination after Randy died," Ms. Kelsay said. "It's really scary when something like that happens to someone you know. Randy was the same kind of person as Bob. Doesn't complain, easygoing -- or appears to be easygoing."
        Her husband and Jerry Clifton will be the last ones out the door after the assembly line shuts down. That is how it works in plant closings. With his seniority, Mr. Harlow, who spent 20 years making his way through the union ranks, will get a job -- at another plant, or perhaps at Solidarity House, U.A.W. headquarters in Detroit, though staff is being cut there, too.
        "Bob was worried that people would blame him for the plant closing," Ms. Kelsay said. Apparently they didn't. He was re-elected in April by a landslide.
        Why run again when the plant is closing? Mr. Harlow's answer: "I wasn't through."  COMPANY NEWS
      