
        Gen. James A. Van Fleet, a foot soldier through nearly four decades in the Army and a commander who led major campaigns in World War II and the Korean War, died yesterday at his ranch in Polk City, Fla. He was 100 years old.
        He died in his sleep, funeral home officials said.
        General Van Fleet, who had been a machine-gunner in World War I, would later play crucial roles in D-Day, in the Allied push into Germany and, after the war, in repelling attempts by Communist guerrillas to take over Greece.
        Calling him "the greatest general we have ever had," former President Harry S. Truman said of the retiring general in 1953: "I sent him to Greece and he won the war. I sent him to Korea and he won the war."
        Throughout his career, the tall, blue-eyed four-star general had a reputation for caring for and respecting even the privates in his command. "I never want to command by fear," he once said. "I never want to be accused of abuse of power. Power is given to you to exercise in a kindly way."
        In 1951, during the Korean War, one subordinate officer told a reporter: "General Van Fleet is a foot-slogger. He's a mud soldier and a foxhole soldier." Not One for Subtlety
        Never given to subtlety, General Van Fleet caused a stir in the closing days of the Korean War when he told Congress that he had been held back from fully pursuing the Communist forces.
        Nine years after his retirement, during the early stages of the Vietnam War, General Van Fleet was recalled to active duty by President John F. Kennedy to serve as a consultant to the Defense Department and a specialist in guerrilla warfare. Once again, he caused controversy when a newspaper quoted him the day before his appointment as saying that Ambassador Adlai E. Stevenson should be dismissed as chief delegate to the United Nations because he had not supported the invasion of Cuba at the Bay of Pigs.
        James Alward Van Fleet was born in New Jersey on March 19, 1892, a son of William and Medora Van Fleet. General Van Fleet's father had served in the Union Army during the Civil War. His grandfather Joshua served in the New York militia during the Revolutionary War. When James was an infant, his family moved to Florida where, when he reached school age, he was enrolled in the Summerlin Institute at Bartow.
        He was appointed to the United States Military Academy in 1911, and graduated with the class of 1915, which included future Gens. Omar N. Bradley and Dwight D. Eisenhower. In his senior year, Cadet Van Fleet played fullback on the undefeated Army team. Even in midlife, General Van Fleet, who stood well over 6 feet, retained much of the easy grace of his football days. Like Generals Bradley and Eisenhower, General Van Fleet was not an exceptional student. Upon graduation from West Point, he stood 92d in a class of 168.
        After infantry company duty during a tense period on the Mexican border in 1916, then-Lieutenant Van Fleet was an instructor at a temporary officers' school at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. After machine-gun training at two camps in the South, he went to France as a captain and received command of the 17th Machine Gun Battalion of the 6th Division. In the rugged infantry fighting during the Meuse-Argonne offensive in October 1918, he was wounded in action near Sedan several days before the war ended on Nov. 11. Peacetime Service
        General Van Fleet's service in the ill-equipped peacetime army of the 1920's included assignments to Reserve Officer Training Corps units in several state colleges. For several years, he was commandant of cadets and head football coach at the University of Florida. He was returned to field service in 1925 as a battalion commander with the 42d Infantry in the Panama Canal Zone.
        After another tour of duty at the University of Florida, a tour with the Fifth Infantry at Fort Williams, Me., and duty lasting from 1935 to 1939 with the Organized Reserve at San Diego, Calif., General Van Fleet joined the 29th Infantry at Fort Benning, Ga. With War War II looming, it was a time of intense training.
        General Van Fleet was only a colonel commanding an infantry regiment in England when the Normandy landings were being planned. The story was circulated at the time that Gen. George C. Marshall, the Army Chief of Staff, had confused Colonel Van Fleet with an officer who had a similar name and who was known to be a heavy drinker, refusing him promotion on those grounds. General Van Fleet never drank alcohol.
        The future general was commanding the 8th Infantry of the 4th Division when assignments were being made for the Normandy landings. General Bradley had served with the 8th and knew its fighting strengths, and he had considerable respect for the tactical skill of its commander. The 8th was selected for the tough zero-hour assault on Omaha Beach. General Van Fleet took his men ashore with such skill that the combat team's objectives were obtained with a minimum loss of lives.
        Soon after, the General got his first star as assistant division commander of the 2d Division. When the command of the 90th Division opened, General Bradley said, "I'll take Van" for the job.
        From Feb. 4 to March 15, 1945, General Van Fleet commanded the 3d Corps, and was on hand for the crossing of the Rhine River at the bridge at Remagen. His corps spearheaded the drive across Germany and on the last day of the war in Europe, he was at the foot of the Austrian Alps.
        After a routine tour of duty in the United States at the end of the war, General Van Fleet was named Deputy Chief of Staff at the headquarters of the European Command of the United States Army.
        The postwar threat of Communist invasion of Greece, coupled with extensive disorders in the country itself, led to intervention. General Van Fleet was selected as director of the Joint United States Military Advisory and Planning Group in Greece. He assumed the post on Feb. 19, 1950. His direct manner, his complete lack of political subtlety proved to be advantageous in a setting where politics and factionalism were creating chaos.
        A group of officers under General Van Fleet began the difficult task of training the Greeks and instilling in them a sense of unity. Slowly the communists were driven across the border. Command in Korean War
        On July 31, 1950, with the Greek situation relatively stabilized, General Van Fleet was given command of the 1st Army with headquarters at Fort Meade, Md. He was there in 1951 when General Douglas MacArthur of the Army was relieved of command of United Nations forces in the Korean War. Lieut. Gen. Matthew B. Ridgway, who had been field commander of the United Nations forces, assumed General MacArthur's post, and General Van Fleet took over as field commander.
        General Van Fleet arrived in Korea on April 14, 1951, eight days before the Communists began the first of their last two broad offensives. The attack was repulsed. The second attack, on May 16, was also turned back.
        General Van Fleet started a counteroffensive in June. Later, testifying before a Senate Armed Services subcommittee in Washington, he declared that the Allies could have won then. But the communists called for peace talks, to which President Truman agreed.
        For the next two years, the armistice negotiations dragged on while both sides dug in. An armistice was finally negotiated in the summer of 1953.
        In the 1952 Presidential campaign, General Van Fleet became the central figure in a political storm. General Eisenhower, campaigning on the Republican ticket, had read in a speech a letter General Van Fleet had written in which he complained that he lacked official support for his program of training and using South Korean soldiers in combat. The Defense Department denied that there had been any holding back in the training of Koreans for combat.
        General Van Fleet retired from the Army on March 31, 1953, in accordance with the law. He had served for nearly 38 years as an officer and was 61 years old.
        Prior to his official retirement, General Van Fleet testified on the Korean situation before a Senate Armed Services subcommittee. Besides saying that he had been prohibited from waging a victorious offensive, he declared that his forces had been handicapped by shortages of ammunition during all his 22 months in Korea.
        General Van Fleet's only son, Captain James A. Van Fleet Jr., an Air Force pilot, was reported missing in action in Korean in April 1952, after a night bombing mission. In 1954, Captain Van Fleet was declared presumed dead.
        After retirement, General Van Fleet devoted himself to business pursuits, mainly in real estate. He was president of James A. Van Fleet Estates Inc. and of Van Fleet Properties Inc., and was a director of Webb & Knapp Inc., Van Pelt International Industries and 20th Century Fox film corporation. He was also chairman of the American Korean Foundation. He was a recipient of the Distinguished Service Cross with three oak leaf clusters and numerous other decorations.
        General Van Fleet is to buried at Arlington National Cemetery on Wednesday.
        Correction:  September 26, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary article on Thursday about Gen. James A. Van Fleet misstated the site of his D-day landing in Normandy. The landing, in which the general's skills were credited with keeping casualties relatively light, was at Utah Beach, not Omaha Beach.
      