
        William P. Mott Jr., director of the National Park Service from 1985 to 1989, died on Monday in Orinda, Calif., where he lived. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Mott, who had been suffering from pneumonia for the last month, died of heart failure, said Jo Hemphill, a spokeswoman for the family.
        Mr. Mott had experience at every level of parks administration. He was head of the California Department of Parks and Recreation from 1967 to 1975, when the park system doubled the amount of land it included. Before that, he was general manager of the East Bay Regional Park District in the San Francisco Bay area, and from 1946 to 1962 he was superintendent of parks for Oakland, Calif.
        Mr. Mott's appointment to the national post was hailed by many conservationists as a welcome change from what they said had been a diffidence toward conservation of national parkland by President Ronald Reagan's Administration. Under Mr. Mott's direction, the park service added 17 new areas with a total of 1.4 million acres to to those it supervised. One was the Great Basin National Park in Nevada, which Mr. Mott, a landscape architect by training, had studied as a potential park site in 1937.  Supervised New Park
        Yet despite continued respect for Mr. Mott personally, many conservationists and some Park Service employees later asserted that he had been undermined by opposition in the Interior Department and the Administration generally.
        After leaving the national directorship, he continued as a consultant with the agency, and supervised the transformation of the Presidio Army base in San Francisco into a national park.
        Mr. Mott earned a bachelor's degree in landscape architecture from Michigan State University in 1931 and a master's degree in the discipline from the University of California at Berkeley in 1933. He then spent 12 years working as a landscape architect in San Francisco.
        Mr. Mott's wife of 57 years, the former Ruth Barnes, died last year. He is survived by two sons, William P. Mott 3d of Ross, Calif., and John D. Mott of Santa Clara, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      