
        Frank P. Briggs, a rural newspaper publisher from Missouri who succeeded Harry S. Truman in the United States Senate in 1944, died on Wednesday at Samaritan Memorial Hospital in Macon, Mo. He was 98 years old and lived in Macon.
        He was admitted to the hospital on Monday to be tested for pneumonia, his son, Tom, said.
        Mr. Briggs bought The Macon Chronicle-Herald in 1924 and was its editor and publisher until he sold it in 1973.
        Mr. Briggs, a native of Armstrong, Mo., and a journalism graduate of the University of Missouri, worked for newspapers in Missouri and Oklahoma before acquiring the Macon paper. Five-Term State Senator
        He got into politics in 1930 when he became the first Democrat in 52 years to be elected Mayor of Macon. Two years later he was elected to his first of five terms in the Missouri Senate, where he served as President pro tem for four terms.
        When Truman, running with Franklin D. Roosevelt, was elected Vice President in 1944 he resigned his Senate seat, and Gov. Phil M. Donnelly named Mr. Briggs to serve the remainder of the term, which expired in 1946. Mr. Briggs sought a full term in 1946 but lost to his Republican opponent, James Kem.
        Returning to Macon, he became a member and four-term chairman of the Missouri Conservation Commission, serving until President John F. Kennedy named him Assistant Secretary of the Interior for fish and wildlife in 1961. He left that post in 1965.
        In 1958 the University of Missouri honored him and his column, "It Seems to B," with an award for distinguished journalism, saying he had "achieved the nearly impossible feat of keeping his newspaper and his public responsibilities entirely divorced from one another."
        Besides his son, who also lives in Macon, Mr. Briggs is survived by his wife of 76 years, the former Catherine Shull; two daughters, Ruth Bratek of Columbia, Mo., and Betty Briggs of Macon; a sister, Margaret Bullock of Kansas City, 11 grandchildren and several great-grandchildren.
      