
        Paul E. Garber, whose childhood fascination with a kite inspired a lifelong love of aviation that led to the founding of the National Air and Space Museum in Washington, died on Wednesday at the Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 93 years old and lived in Arlington.
        His family did not disclose the cause of death.
        Mr. Garber was the driving force behind the museum and was its first curator. It is the world's most comprehensive aerospace collection, drawing eight million visitors each year.
        "The fantastic collection of aircraft owes its very existence to Paul Garber's zeal for collecting," said its director, Martin Harwit.
        Decades before the museum opened, Mr. Garber recognized the historic importance of aviation. Working at the Smithsonian Institution, he assembled a major aviation collection, which eventually grew into the separate aerospace museum in 1946. Knew Air Pioneers
        Mr. Garber once recalled that in 1927, when Charles A. Lindbergh made his solo flight from Roosevelt Field, L.I., to Paris, "I felt in my bones Lindbergh would make it, and that he and his airplane would be famous. I decided right then" to get the plane.
        The Smithsonian sent a congratulatory telegram that awaited Mr. Lindbergh's landing, asking him to donate the plane, the Spirit of St. Louis. Mr. Lindbergh delivered it personally.
        The plane became the aerospace museum's most popular exhibit. Mr. Lindbergh once asked to see it again. After the museum closed for the day, Mr. Garber got a ladder so the pilot could climb back into the cockpit and reminisce in solitude.
        Mr. Garber was acquainted with many pioneer aviators, including Orville Wright, James Doolittle, Billy Mitchell and Glenn Curtiss. An amateur flier, he was three times elected president of the Early Birds of Aviation, a fraternity of pilots who flew solo before 1916. Kites and Model Airplanes
        Born in Atlantic City, Mr. Garber grew up there and in Washington. He was first drawn to aviation at the age of 5 when an uncle gave him a kite. He began building and collecting aircraft models and visiting airfields. In 1909 he saw Orville Wright fly in Virginia.
        As a teen-ager Mr. Garber designed, built and flew a glider with an 18-foot wingspan.
        A veteran of both World Wars, he served in the first as an Army sergeant and was trained in flying. In World War II he was the Navy commander in charge of producing models to help teach pilots and gunners how to identify enemy planes.
        In 1920, after working briefly with the ground crew of the Postal Air Mail Service, Mr. Garber began his 67-year career at the Smithsonian repairing mechanical artifacts and making models. Gathered Many Artifacts
        Among the thousands of items he collected were Admiral Richard E. Byrd's furred helmet, a Sikorsky helicopter, Amelia Earhart memorabilia and the Enola Gay, the plane that dropped the first atomic bomb. He scored a major coup in 1948 when he gained possession of the Wright Brothers' plane that first flew at Kitty Hawk, N.C., in 1903.
        After mandatory retirement from the museum in 1969, he continued as a full-time historian emeritus and was the Smithsonian's first Ramsey Fellow.
        He studied at several universities but did not earn a degree. Among the many articles and books he wrote was "Masters of the Air" (Smithsonian, 1969).
        Surviving are two sons, Paul J., of Glenside, Pa., and Edward W., of Edgewood, N.M., and a daughter, Barbara J. Garber of Washington.
      