
        Seymour Weiss, a defense and foreign-policy expert who was a retired top State Department official and adviser to President Ronald Reagan, died Wednesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 67 years old.
        He died of liver cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Weiss was known as a hard-liner who warned against Soviet intentions and cautioned against detente and arms reduction. He specialized in arms sales, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and intelligence and worked on the United States' responses to the Berlin blockade, Soviet missiles in Cuba and Middle East crises.
        In 22 years at the State Department, he was Assistant Secretary of State, special assistant to the Secretary, deputy director of policy planning and director of Strategic Intelligence and Research and Politico-Military Policy.
        Mr. Weiss ended his full-time Government service as Ambassador to the Bahamas from 1974-76 but continued as a consultant. Advised Three Secretaries
        He advised Mr. Reagan when he ran for President and when he took office. Mr. Weiss also advised Defense Secretaries James R. Schlesinger, Frank C. Carlucci, Caspar W. Weinberger and Dick Cheney.
        Mr. Weiss headed the Defense Department's policy board and served on the Senate Intelligence Committee advisory board and the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board. He was also on various boards for the Navy, the Army and the Strategic Air Command as well as the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment Panel.
        Mr. Weiss was born in Chicago. After graduating from the University of Pennsylvania, he earned a master's degree in international affairs at the University of Chicago.
        In World War II he served as a lieutenant in the Navy, then worked five years in the Federal Office of Budget and Management and the Agency for International Development.
        Surviving are his wife of 43 years, the former Deane Griff; two sons, Jay of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Eric of Bethesda; a daughter, Gail Weiss of Bethesda, and four grandchildren.
      