
        Dr. Edward Franklin Bland, an authority on rheumatic fever and a cardiologist at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, died on Sunday. He was 91 years old.
        A Massachusetts General spokesman said Dr. Bland suffered a heart attack at his home in Brookline, Mass., and was taken to the nearest hospital, Beth Israel in Boston, where he died hours later.
        Studies of rheumatic fever done by Dr. Bland and a colleague, Dr. T. Duckett Jones, became classics for specialists in cardiac disease. In the 1920's, before the advent of antibiotics, the disease was a principal cause of death of children and young adults. The two traced the history of rheumatic feaver by conducting 10- and 20-year follow-up studies of 1,000 patients from 1921 to 1931.
        Dr. Bland also was the author of nearly 100 professional papers. 'Wonderful Way' With Children
        A fellow cardiologist at Massachusetts General, Dr. Allan L. Friedlich, said: "No one can really know Ed Bland who has not seen the affection and tenderness so apparent as he examined a child with rheumatic fever. He loved the children and had such a wonderful way with them."
        Dr. Bland, a member of an old Virginia family, was born in West Point, Va., and graduated from the University of Virginia, where he also earned his medical degree. He came to Massachusetts General in 1927 to serve his internship and residency in cardiology.
        He was chief of the cardiac unit at Massachusetts General from 1949 to 1964, succeeding the hospital's first cardiologist, Dr. Paul Dudley White, who founded the unit in 1914 and helped treat President Dwight D. Eisenhower when he suffered a heart attack in 1955. New Diagnostic Techniques
        During Dr. Bland's tenure new diagnostic techniques for heart patients were put in place, including cardiac catheterization, angiography and echocardiology.
        Dr. Bland was named an instructor in medicine at Harvard University in 1939 and full clinical professor in 1965. In World War II he served as a lieutenant colonel in the Army Medical Corps in North Africa and Italy.
        He reached emeritus status at Harvard in 1967. He continued to provide regular patient care at Massachusetts General until 1986 and made cardiology rounds at the hospital until a few months ago.
        Dr. Bland is survived by his wife, the former Caroline Thayer; a daughter, Frances Youngblood of Carbondale, Ill.; a son, Robert P. Bland of Chestnut Hill, Mass., and six grandchildren.
      