
        Dr. William J. Harrington, an internationally known blood specialist who made major discoveries about the basic mechanisms of blood disorders from experiments he performed on himself, died yesterday at his home in Miami. He was 68 years old.
        He died while repairing a generator outside his home, which has been without electricity and running water since Hurricane Andrew hit southern Florida last week. His daughter, Ann, said that electrocution had been ruled out but that the precise cause of death was not known.
        Dr. Harrington devoted his career to the study of blood diseases and autoimmune disorders. His focus was on a disorder in which the number of platelets -- the fragments in blood that help make it clot -- drop to such low levels that the individual can develop black and blue marks from a touch of a feather. It is known as I.T.P., or idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura.
        In the experiment he did on himself in 1950, Dr. Harrington discovered that a substance in the blood of individuals with I.T.P. destroyed their platelets. The discovery opened up new avenues of scientific investigation by advancing the concept of autoimmune disease.
        The experiment was carried out when Dr. Harrington was in training as a hematology fellow at Washington University Medical School in St. Louis. He injected a pint of an I.T.P. patient's blood into himself, and almost immediately his platelet count dropped and black and blue marks formed on his skin. Fearing that he may develop a stroke or other complications, his superiors admitted him to Barnes Hospital, the main teaching hospital of Washington University.
        Within a week, however, his blood counts returned to normal, showing that the factor that caused I.T.P. was in the blood. Because his bone marrow continued to create new platelets, his body was able to overcome the I.T.P. episode.
        Dr. Harrington and other researchers provided evidence that I.T.P. is caused in part by antibodies produced against a normal component of an individual's own platelets. I.T.P. became the first documented autoimmune disease.
        Dr. Harrington's research career was assured. During the next year, at age 28, Dr. Harrington became the youngest member ever elected to the American Society of Clinical Investigation.
        Dr. Harrington was born in Norwood, Mass., on Sept. 21, 1923. He did his premedical studies at Boston College and graduated from Tufts University Medical School in 1947. Founded Ph.D.-M.D. Program
        After conducting his classic self-experiments, Dr. Harrington continued his research at Washington University and in 1954 became the director of its division of hematology. In 1964 he moved to the University of Miami School of Medicine, where he founded the Center for Blood Diseases and became the chairman of the department of medicine. He also founded the University of Miami's Ph.D.-M.D. program. The Blood Center was later named for him.
        Dr. Harrington also developed treatments for sickle-cell anemia.
        For about 25 years, Dr. Harrington worked to improve medical education in Latin American countries, and he holds honorary appointments from medical schools in Chile, the Dominican Republic, Brazil, Colombia and Panama. He also worked on disaster relief in underdeveloped countries and was one of the first doctors to arrive in Nicaragua in 1972 after the earthquake there.
        In his practice, Dr. Harrington also went where he was needed. Stanley Glaser, who was under Dr. Harrington's care, said he endowed a professorship in his honor because of his dedication to patients. "He was one of the few doctors left who makes house calls," Mr. Glaser said. "When his patients couldn't get out, he would come to them. In fact, he came to see me yesterday."
        Dr. Harrington earned a Mastership in the American College of Physicians, one of 70 awarded among the 60,000 members of the organization.
        In addition to his daughter, Dr. Harrington is survived by his wife, the former Mary Halloran; three sons, William J. Harrington Jr., Timothy W. Harrington and Thomas J. Harrington, all of Miami, and four grandchildren.
      