
        Robert N. Kreidler, the president of the Charles A. Dana Foundation, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan and on Long Island.
        He died after a long illness, said Stephen A. Foster, the vice president of the foundation, but he did not elaborate.
        The Dana Foundation, which has assets of $218 million, is active mainly in the areas of education and health. Mr. Kreidler, who spent three decades in the foundation field, became the president of the Dana Foundation in 1982.
        The foundation, which was founded in 1950 and has headquarters in midtown Manhattan, was set up by Mr. Dana, who made his fortune in the manufacture of automobile parts, and by his wife, Eleanor Naylor Dana. Mr. Dana died in 1975; Mrs. Dana, in 1982. Educational Research Grants
        Many of the foundation's education grants are awarded to support research for improving the schooling of children in kindergarten through the sixth grade by a variety of innovations, including the more effective use of computers, the greater involvement of parents, and changes in public policy.  In its grants in the health field, the foundation focuses on memory loss, depression and addiction as problems that can be treated by the application of recent breakthroughs in neurobiological research.
        Mr. Kreidler was born in Detroit. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1951 and earned a master's degree in public administration from Harvard in 1953 and another master's, in political economy and government, in 1954, also from Harvard.
        After serving as a Marine officer from 1954 to 1958, he worked in Washington in the Office of the Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, from 1958 to 1962. He was with the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation from 1962 to 1980 and then was a private consultant in the foundation field from 1980 to 1982.
        Mr. Kreidler was a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a former trustee of Barnard College.
        He is survived by his sister, Jean Page of Grosse Isle, Mich.
      