
        Malcolm J. Arth, a retired anthropolgist and innovative museum educator, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 61 years old.
        His relatives said he died after a long illness..
        Dr. Arth, who retired last fall after 21 years as chairman of the Education Department at the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan, disdained the idea of museums as "repositories of the musty and dusty."
        He started the museum's overnight "camp-in" for children and founded the annual Margaret Mead Film Festival to gain a wider audience for anthropological documentaries. He created the People Center, where museum visitors see live performances of native music and dancers and do such things as put on costumes, handle indigenous tools and try to start fires by spinning sticks against blocks of wood.
        He helped arrange an exhibit of Tibetan butter sculpture and created an urban ecology exhibit explaining how concrete and asphalt are made and the habits of roaches.
        Dr. Arth encouraged the use of the museum by the city's many races and ethnic groups to explore their heritage. He also promoted minority training, help for small museums, training of museum edcuators and foreign exchanges.
        As an anthropologist, he did field research in New Mexico, Nebraska, China, India, Sweden, the Soviet Union, Nigeria, Kenya, Tanzania, Mali, Ghana and Uganda. He worked part time for the Getty Trust Museum Management Institute at Berkeley, Calif., and taught at New York University, Manhattanville College and Harvard. He was an officer of American Association of Museums and won its educator's award for excellence in 1986.
        Dr. Arth was born in Boston and earned a bachelor's degree from Boston University and a doctorate from Harvard. He worked three years on a project with geriatric patients at Boston State Hospital and nine years as an anthropology professor and department chairman at Adelphi University before joining the museum staff.
        Surviving are his father, L. Robert, of Quincy, Mass.; a brother, Donald, of Randolph, Mass., and a sister, Betty Jacobs of Sharon, Mass.
      