
        William Barrett, one of the foremost American interpreters of the philosophy of existentialism and a leading chronicler of the post-World War II generation of New York intellectuals, died on Tuesday at the Tarrytown Hall Nursing Home in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 78 years old.
        He died of cancer of the esophagus, said his son-in-law, Gary La Rue, with whom he lived in North Tarrytown in recent years.
        After entering the City College of New York at the age of 15 and receiving a doctorate in philosophy from Columbia University at 22, Professor Barrett devoted his professional life to teaching and writing, with one important exception. In the late 1940's and early 50's, he spent five years as a literary journalist and associate editor of Partisan Review, which was then among the most important and influential literary and political journals in the United States. Lessons Outside the Academy
        In his memoir, "The Truants: Adventures Among the Intellectuals," published in 1982 by Anchor Press and Doubleday, Professor Barrett recounted his friendships and associations while at Partisan Review with such writers as Philip Rahv, Mary McCarthy, Dwight Macdonald, Hannah Arendt and Delmore Schwartz, the poet who became his closest friend.
        This experience outside the academy, he wrote, prompted him to "relate philosophy to the real affairs of men in history."
        The title of his memoir came from a remark by Rahv, Professor Barrett's mentor at Partisan Review, characterizing those who played hooky from the realities of their lives by briefly working for the magazine. Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Hilton Kramer called the memoir "more than an exercise in personal reminiscence," adding, "It is also a penetrating analysis of the intellectual life of its period and essential reading for anyone attempting to understand the art and culture and politics of the present age."  His Political Progression
        Like many intellectuals of his generation, Professor Barrett became a Marxist with Trotskyite leanings in his youth, an anti-Communist liberal during the early years of the cold war and finally a neoconservative.
        He was one of the first philosophers to introduce existentialism to the United States. His book "Irrational Man" (Doubleday), first published in 1958, was regarded as a definitive study of existential philosophy for the general reader. Reviewing the book for The New York Times Book Review, Jenny Teichman wrote that Professor Barrett "abjures intricacy and writes with a sprightly clarity." His most recent book was "Death of the Soul: From Descartes to the Computer," published in 1986 by Anchor Press and Doubleday.
        Professor Barrett taught philosophy at the University of Chicago, Brown University, New York University and finally Pace University.
        He is survived by a daughter, Susan Barrett of North Tarrytown; a son, Michael, of Boston, and a granddaughter.
      