
        Chief Justice Charles L. Weltner of the Georgia Supreme Court, who as a young Congressman a quarter-century ago sacrificed a promising political career by defying his state's segregationist Democratic leadership, died Monday at his home in Atlanta. He was 64 years old.
        His family said the cause of death was esophageal cancer, diagnosed two years ago.
        Mr. Weltner was best known as one of the moderates who helped steer the South out of a period of racial turmoil and social tension. He arrived on Capitol Hill in 1963, a 35-year-old Democrat from Georgia's Fifth Congressional District, which covered much of Atlanta. Backed by a coalition of white and black moderates, he had defeated Representative James C. Davis, a segregationist eight-term incumbent, in the party's primary.
        The leading legislation of his first term in Congress was the milestone Civil Rights Act of 1964. Mr. Weltner at first opposed it, but he had changed his mind by the time a Senate version was sent to the House for a vote that July. Standing before an astonished House chamber, he said his conscience demanded that he support the bill.
        "We in the South face some difficult decisions," he said. "We can offer resistance and defiance, with their harvest of strife and tumult. We can suffer continued demonstrations, with their wake of violence and disorder. Or we can acknowledge this measure as the law of the land."
        Mr. Weltner was one of only seven Southerners in the House to vote for the bill.
        His primary victory in 1964 was narrower, but he kept his seat in November. He then voted for the 1965 Voting Rights Act as well.
        He had also angered segregationists in 1963 by taking elected officials and other leaders to task for tolerating preachers of violence and disorder, "leaving the field to reckless and violent men." He spoke in the wake of the bombing of a black church in Birmingham, Ala., that took the lives of four girls.
        And he joined another Atlanta lawyer, Morris B. Abrams Sr., in a suit that in 1962 overturned Georgia's unit system for Democratic primaries, which favored rural areas at the expense of cities. The outcome foreshadowed the one-man, one-vote principle applied to Congressional districts by a Supreme Court ruling in 1964.
        It was the 1966 election that ended Mr. Weltner's political career. The Democratic nominee for Georgia governor that year was Lester G. Maddox, a segregationist who ran a race-baiting campaign that used the civil rights legislation of 1964 and 1965 to rouse the fears of white voters. Mr. Weltner won his primary but balked at complying with the state Democratic Party's requirement that its candidates sign a pledge of loyalty to the top of the ticket.
        In a dramatic announcement to the House in October, he withdrew from the race. The party chose a replacement candidate, Archie L. Lindsay, who was defeated by a Republican, Fletcher Thompson, on Election Day. Mr. Maddox was elected as well.
        Two years later Mr. Weltner tried to regain his seat but failed. A Family of Prominence
        Charles Longstreet Weltner, a native of Atlanta and holder of a law degree from Columbia University, was the scion of a distinguished Southern family. A great-great-grandfather, Joseph L. Lumpkin, was the first Chief Justice of the Georgia Supreme Court. A great-grandfather, Gen. Thomas R. R. Cobb, helped write the Confederate Constitution and was killed at the battle of Fredericksburg. His father, Philip, a lawyer, served as chancellor of the State University System and as president of Oglethorpe University, from which the son graduated in 1948.
        After leaving Congress, Mr. Weltner practiced law and wrote an occasional column for The Atlanta Constitution until Gov. George Busbee appointed him to the Fulton County Superior Court, in Atlanta. He was appointed to the State Supreme Court in 1981 and was an Associate Justice when, three months ago, Chief Justice Harold G. Clarke Jr. stepped aside temporarily in a gesture of tribute to him.
        Justice Weltner was to head the court until December and then retire at the age of 65. Justice Clarke will now resume his role as Chief Justice.
        Justice Weltner's first marriage, to Betty Jean Center, ended in divorce. He is survived by his second wife, Anne Glenn Weltner; two sons and two daughters by his first marriage, Philip Weltner 2d, Charles L. Weltner Jr., Elizabeth Weltner and Susan Yow; two daughters by his second marriage, June and Anne Weltner; a brother, Philip Weltner Jr.; two sisters, May Norwood and Marion Cannon, and four grandchildren. All the survivors live in Atlanta.
      