
        Raymond P. Hickok, who headed a family business that made men's belts and jewelry and helped develop automobile seat belts, died on Wednesday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. He was 74 years old and lived in nearby Pittsford.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        For more than 25 years he ran the Hickok Manufacturing Company, which his father, S. Rae Hickok, founded in 1909 by buying a small jewelry plating business for $350.
        When his father died in 1945, Mr. Hickok inherited the company presidency at the age of 27. Three years later he added the title of chairman. He led the company's expansion as a major manufacturer of wallets, belts, pants, suspenders, cuff links, tie clasps and other men's accessories. Helped Fledgling Executives
        Mr. Hickok also developed prototypes of safety seat belts, which ultimately became standard automobile equipment and are credited with saving many lives.
        Because of his own early struggles as a business official, Mr. Hickok decided to help other fledgling executives by founding the Young Presidents Organization, which drew thousands of members worldwide. He was also a co-founder and honorary chairman of the World Presidents Organzation and a leader of the Young Entrepreneurs Organization.
        In 1950 Mr. Hickok and his brother, Alan, created the S. Rae Hickok belt, a diamond-studded gold and leather trophy belt awarded annually to an outstanding athlete. Recipients included Rocky Marciano, Arnold Palmer, Roger Maris, Mickey Mantle, Willie Mays, Jim Brown, Ben Hogan and Phil Rizzuto. Mr. Hickok made similarly spectacular belts for boxing champions.
        Tandy bought the company in 1971. Mr. Hickok then started a brokerage firm for the buying and selling of other businesses.
        Secretary of State John Foster Dulles appointed him chairman of the United States Committee for the United Nations 1956. Mr. Hickok served on the boards of the Boy Scouts of America, the Good Ship Hope, Unicef, the United States Ski Team, Astrotech International, Rockwell International and Sazal, a hotel company. He was also active in the American Cancer Society and the Rochester Foundation for Persons with Brain/Head Injury.
        Mr. Hickok, who was born in Rochester, was a great-great nephew of Wild Bill Hickok, the legendary Old West figure. After graduating from Rollins College, Mr. Hickok served in the Army Air Corps in World War II, working on crucial weather forecasts for the English Channel.
        His marriage to Sally Street ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Joan Simonsen; a son, Thomas, of Alexandria, Va.; two daughters, Holly Lang of Minneapolis, and Kimberly Smith of Nairobi, Kenya; a brother, Alan, of Pittsford, and four grandchildren.
      