
        Richard G. Denzer, a longtime prosecutor who helped rewrite New York State's penal laws, died on Wednesday while on a family visit in Kensington, Md. He was 80 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Boca Raton, Fla.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Denzer, a native New Yorker, graduated from Amherst College and in 1935 from Yale Law School. The next year, as a $1-a-year volunteer, he joined the staff of Thomas E. Dewey for the special investigation in New York City that established the future Governor's national reputation as a "racket buster."
        When Mr. Dewey was elected Manhattan District Attorney in 1937, Mr. Denzer stayed on as an assistant district attorney, a post he held for 23 years. Led Indictment Bureau
        He became one of the closest aides of Mr. Dewey's legendary successor, Frank S. Hogan, who appointed him chief of his indictment bureau in 1947. Three years later, he took charge of Mr. Hogan's appeals bureau.
        Mr. Denzer accepted the appointment in 1961 as chief counsel and executive director of the newly formed State Temporary Commission on Revision of the Penal Law and Criminal Code. The law and the code, setting forth how the penal law is administered, dated to the 19th century. Mr. Denzer oversaw the staff that researched and framed the changes for the updated version the Legislature had asked for. It took nearly a decade to complete.
        Mr. Denzer was a law professor at Fordham University in 1973 when Gov. Nelson A. Rockeller recruited him and 15 others as judges to handle the spate of drug cases arising from the state's stringent new narcotics law. Technically, they were Court of Claims judges on loan to the State Supreme Court with the title of acting justice.
        After that assignment, in a case in 1979, Justice Denzer sentenced Adela Holzer, a former Broadway producer, for defrauding scores of investors of their savings. He called her conduct "simple greed" and ordered her jailed for two to six years. A Violinist's Murder
        Justice Denzer was the presiding judge in the trial of Craig S. Crimmins, a stagehand accused of murdering Helen Hagnes Mintiks, a 31-year-old violinist who was playing for the Berlin Ballet, then appearing at Lincoln Center. She disappeared on July 23, 1980, and her nude body was found the next day down a three-story air shaft in a construction area.
        At the trial the next spring, the defendant was found guilty of murdering the victim while tring to rape her. Justice Denzer sentenced him to 20-year-to-life prison term with the possibility of parole in 20 years. He called the slaying "bizarre" but said he spared the defendant the maximum of 25 years to life because that should be reserved for criminals with a history of violence.
        He retired from the bench at the end of 1981, but he remained a judicial hearing oficer until last year.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Charlotte Paxson; a daughter, Sally Denzer of Manhattan, and a stepdaughter, Lorna Tahtinen of Kensington, Md.
      