
        Frank E. McKinney Jr., the former Indiana University swimming champion who won an Olympic gold medal and shared six world backstroke records in the 1950's and 60's before becoming a leading banker in Indiana, was killed Friday in the collision of two small planes near Indianapolis.
        He was 53 years old and had retired in 1990 as chairman of Bank One Indiana and as president of its Ohio-based parent company, Banc One.
        His death came less than a year after Mr. McKinney, a longtime Democrat whose father had served as chairman of the Democratic National Committee during the Truman Administration, turned down a Republican invitation to seek the party's nomination for governor. Scion of Banking Family
        The state Republican chairman, Rexford C. Early, said Mr. McKinney, who had never run for political office, would have made an attractive candidate because of his role in building the American Fletcher National Bank into the state's largest bank before it was acquired by Banc One in 1986.
        Mr. McKinney, who succeeded his father as chairman of the Fletcher bank and controlled 5 percent of its stock, worth an estimated $30 million at the time of the merger, did not always follow in his parent's footsteps.
        While the senior Mr. McKinney was a baseball man who owned the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1947 to 1951, it was swimming that attracted the son.
        As a 17-year-old junior at Indianapolis Cathedral High School, he won a bronze medal at the 1956 Olympics in Melbourne in the 100-meter backstroke. Four years later in Rome, he led the American team to a gold medal in the 400-meter medley relay and also won a silver in the 100-meter. First in Swimming Dynasty
        After being heavily recruited by a dozen colleges, Mr. McKinney's decision to attend Indiana University under Coach James E. (Doc) Counsilman helped Indiana displace Yale University as the dominant power in collegiate swimming and to establish a dynasty that began when Mr. McKinney led the team to its first Big Ten championship in 1961.
        In recognition of a career that included six world records, Mr. McKinney was inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in 1975, 10 years after he had helped found the hall and had served as its first treasurer.
        Two years ago he succeed former Treasury Secretary William Simon as the hall's chairman.
        In recent years Mr. McKinney continued to swim while also keeping in shape by running and playing tennis.
        Funeral services will be held at 2 P.M. on Tuesday at St. Luke's Catholic Church in Indianapolis.
        Mr. McKinney, who was divorced from his first wife, the former Katherine Berry in 1987, is survived by his second wife, Marianne Williams McKinney; six children from his first marriage: Frank 3d, Martie, Marlen, Madeleine, Robert and Heather, and two sisters, Claire M. Clark and Kathleen M. Stasey, all of Indianapolis.
        Correction:  September 14, 1992, Monday
        An obituary headline in some copies yesterday about Frank McKinney, a former Olympic swimmer, misstated his age. He was 53 years old. The obituary is reprinted today on page D10 for readers of editions that did not carry it.
      