
        Representative Ted Weiss, a Manhattan Democrat who for more than 15 years was one of the most outspoken advocates of liberal policies in Congress, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan and Washington.
        He died of heart failure, his office said.
        A refugee from East European anti-Semitism, Mr. Weiss was both a product and a reflection of the West Side district that he represented. Stretching from Battery Park through Greenwich Village into the Upper West Side and the Bronx, the district encompassed some of the city's most liberal, reform-minded neighborhoods, and Mr. Weiss ardently obliged them.
        Inspired by Adlai E. Stevenson and Eleanor Roosevelt -- whose photograph he hung in his Capitol Hill office -- he received his political baptism fighting the Democratic political machine of Carmine G. De Sapio in the 1950's.
        Forty years later, in the era of Reagan and Bush budget cuts, he remained an unrepentant supporter of federally financed poverty programs and AIDS research. When conservatives cheered the use of American troops in Grenada in 1983, Mr. Weiss called for the impeachment of President Ronald Reagan. Conscience of the House
        Even to colleagues who considered him the conscience of the House, his positions could be infuriatingly independent. Once he voted against legislation to increase penalties for child pornography, arguing that the bill -- considered politically safe by most representatives -- was a thinly veiled attack on civil liberties. The final House vote was 400 to 1 for the measure.
        Edward I. Koch, the former Mayor who served in the House before Mr.  Weiss, said yesterday: "Whatever room he entered, a living room or the halls of Congress, he was the conscience of that room. There were times I thought he would impeach God, but the fact is, even then you knew he would be intellectually honest. You knew he thought God should be impeached."
        And even to his conservative critics, Mr. Weiss had earned a reputation as a hard worker with a zest for thorough research.
        For example, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the New York Republican who supported a Navy plan to make Staten Island the home port for the battleship Iowa, often expressed anger at other New Yorkers who questioned the idea. But for Mr. Weiss, who feared the plan would introduce ships capable of carrying nuclear weapons to New York Harbor, Senator D'Amato had only respect. Although they clashed, Mr. D'Amato said Mr. Weiss had been clear in his opposition from the beginning.  Replaced Abzug in Congress
        When Mr. Weiss was a City Councilman in the 1960's, voters often recognized him on the M104 bus, riding down Broadway in a rumpled suit.
        More recently, his suits looked freshly pressed. But on visits to his district, he still rode the bus.
        Mr. Weiss first won his seat in Congress in 1976, with 83 percent of the vote. He replaced Bella S. Abzug, who left the seat to run, unsuccessfully, for the Senate.
        In his first few days on Capitol Hill, Mr. Weiss discovered a dead mouse and a colony of roaches under the rug in his office. But after 14 years on New York's City Council and two unsuccessful campaigns for Congress (in 1966 and 1968), Mr. Weiss was unfazed.
        At last, he said, he was "where the clout is."
        "Given a sympathetic President and a sympathetic leadership, which I think exists, I believe we can make some major advances toward meeting the problems," Mr. Weiss said after the Capitol "rug superintendent" had removed the roaches.  Opposed Westway Project
        The President then was Jimmy Carter, also a Democrat. But Mr. Weiss found some of the Carter Administration's actions less than satisfactory. One was a 1977 decision by the Transportation Secretary, Brock Adams, that gave preliminary approval to Westway, the highway project planned to run along the Hudson River in Manhattan. Mr. Weiss assailed Westway as the product of "back-room, closed-door decision-making."
        Eight years later, a Federal judge killed the project, which would have been the most expensive landfill-highway project in New York City's history, costing $2 billion. The judge ruled that the Army Corps of Engineers had given inadequate consideration to the consequences of the project on the striped bass in the Hudson.
        As his seniority on Capitol Hill increased, Mr. Weiss rose to preside over strategically important subcommittees where legislative work starts. One oversaw Federal revenue sharing, a program the Reagan Administration budget abolished in 1986. The House's Democratic leadership supported the cutoff, but Mayor Koch and other mayors argued that they needed the money. About $70 million was at stake for New York. Despite his vigilant opposition to the cutoff, the program was killed. Fought for New AIDS Drugs
        As chairman of the Subcommittee on Intergovernmental Relations and Human Resources, Mr. Weiss criticized the Reagan Administration's handling of civil-rights complaints against schools and colleges. He accused the Administration of having "derailed civil-rights law enforcement."
        In recent years, Mr. Weiss used his position on the subcommittee to push for tougher testing of food additives, stricter government oversight of Federally financed scientific research, and new Federal regulations to allow drugs proven effective in combatting AIDS to reach the marketplace sooner.
        For a time, this year's redistricting process seemed to threaten Mr. Weiss's political future, as his safely liberal district was eliminated and his Upper West Side political base was drawn into a new seat stretching to Coney Island.
        When Representative Stephen J. Solarz considered running in the new district, Mr. Weiss appeared headed for an expensive fight for survival. But Mr. Solarz chose to run in a different district, and Mr. Weiss's re-election seemed all but assured. Born in Hungary
        Mr. Weiss, who was Jewish, was born in the Hungarian village of Gava, about 50 miles southeast of Budapest, on Sept. 17, 1927, the son of a butcher. His parents divorced when he was 7.
        Three years later, with anti-Semitism on the rise in Europe, his mother moved the family to South Amboy, N.J., where Mrs. Weiss's sister lived. Mr. Weiss's father, who remained in Hungary and survived a concentration camp, died in 1948.
        Mr. Weiss mastered English within six months. In 1946, he joined the Army and spent 18 months in Japan, broadcasting news and sports for the Armed Forces Radio Service.  Worked Under Hogan
        Returning to civilian life, he attended Syracuse University on the G.I. Bill and earned a bachelor's degree in 1951 and a law degree in 1952.
        He was admitted to the New York bar the following year and, after two years in private practice, became an assistant district attorney in Manhattan under District Attorney Frank S. Hogan.
        With other Democrats, Mr. Weiss helped found the reform-oriented Committee for Democratic Voters in the 1950's. He was also a founder of the New Democratic Coalition, and after his election to the City Council in 1961, he wrote the city's gun control law.
        He had single-bypass heart surgery and then had a pacemaker installed in Cleveland in 1982.
        He is survived by his wife, Sonya; two sons, Stephen and Thomas, both of Manhattan, and a sister, Claire Goldstein of San Leandro, Calif.
        Correction:  September 17, 1992, Thursday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Ted Weiss, liberal Democratic Representative from Manhattan, omitted a survivor. She is Zelda Weiss, his first wife and the mother of his two children, Thomas and Stephen.
      