
        Cleavon Little, the actor best remembered for his role as a black sheriff hired to save a redneck town in Mel Brooks's 1974 comedy "Blazing Saddles," died yesterday at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 53 years old.
        He died of colon cancer, said David C. Pollick, his publicity agent in Los Angeles.
        Mr. Little also won the Tony Award for best actor in a musical in 1970, when he starred in "Purlie." More recently, he co-starred with Judd Hirsch in "I'm Not Rappaport," Herb Gardner's 1986 play about two irascible octogenarians who meet on a bench in Central Park.
        "He called me Wednesday to say goodbye," Mr. Hirsch said yesterday in an interview. He and Mr. Little were together in the show for three years on Broadway and on tour. "We teased each other for years in 'Rappaport,' and I said to him, 'You have to get well so we can tour again.' He was a wonderful actor and a classy man, and I so regret we couldn't have made another tour."
        Mr. Little was born in Chickasha, Okla., on June 1, 1939. He was a 1965 graduate of San Diego College and a graduate of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in Manhattan. He made early stage appearances at the La Jolla Playhouse in California, and moved to the New York stage, appearing through the years in such Off Broadway productions as "MacBird!," "Keyboard," "The Resurrection of Lady Lester" and "The Great McDaddy" as well as "Scuba Duba," a production in which he and Mr. Hirsch first acted together in 1967. He made his Broadway debut in 1968 in "Jimmy Shine."
        That same year he also played a hip Hamlet in the New York Shakespeare Festival production. His other Broadway credits included "Narrow Road to the Deep North" (1972) and "All Over Town" (1974).
        Mr. Little starred in the television series "Temperature's Rising," "Baghdad Cafe" and "True Colors," and made many television films, among them "Separate but Equal" opposite Sidney Poitier. He won an Emmy Award as a guest star in Mr. Hirsch's series "Dear John."
        In addition to "Blazing Saddles," Mr. Little appeared in more than a dozen films, including "Arthur 2 on the Rocks," "Toy Soldiers," "Cotton Comes to Harlem," "Vanishing Point" and "Once Bitten."
        He is survived by a daughter, Adia Millett-Little of Los Angeles; his father, Malchi Little, and stepmother, Ruby Little, both of San Diego; two sisters, Rosemarie Martin and DeEtta West, and two brothers, Everett and Roy Little, all of Los Angeles.
      