
        Red Barber, the Mississippi-born broadcaster whose distinctive Southern twang still echoes as the unmistakable voice of the Brooklyn Dodgers, died yesterday at the Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center in Florida.
        He was 84 years old, and a hospital spokesman said he died of pneumonia and other complications after emergency surgery on Oct. 10 to remove an intestinal blockage.
        Until he was stricken, Mr. Barber had provided weekly commentary over National Public Radio since 1981.
        During his 33-year career as a play-by-play announcer, Mr. Barber, the first regular baseball radio announcer in New York, became the recognized master of his profession, delighting millions of fans with his folksy expertise and influencing and inspiring a generation of broadcasters.
        Vin Scully, who broke in under Mr. Barber with the Dodgers more than 40 years ago, recalled him yesterday as "the consummate reporter," and "perhaps the most literate sports announcer I ever met."
        Speaking from Toronto, where he was broadcasting Game 5 of the World Series, Mr. Scully called Mr. Barber "a profound influence on my life and a major reason for any success that I might have had in this business."
        Since his retirement from the play-by-play booth in 1966, Mr. Barber had kept busy, writing seven books and numerous articles and reviews, narrating occasional documentaries, serving as a lay minister with the Episcopal church and gathering honors.
        In 1978 he and Mel Allen, the former Yankee announcer, became the first broadcasters honored by the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y., and in 1985 he won a George Polk Award for his career in broadcasting.
        Mr. Barber began his play-by-play career with the Cincinnati Reds in 1934 and ended it with the Yankees in 1966, but it was during his 15 years in Brooklyn, from 1939 through 1953, that "the Old Redhead" changed the vocabulary of baseball and the terrain of Ebbets Field.
        To Barber, the diamond was "the pea patch," and when he described what happened on it he left no pea unpicked. A team in control was "in the catbird seat." A sewn-up game was "tied up in a crocus sack." A base runner who had broken up a double play with a strategic slide that knocked the fielder out of the play had "swung the gate on him," and what often happened next was "a rhubarb."
        During his career, Mr. Barber, who coupled his barnyard metaphors from the Southern farmlands with scrupulous grammar, superb syntax and meticulous preparation, memorialized many milestones. He broadcast baseball's first night game, in Cincinnati on May 24, 1935, and its first televised game, in Brooklyn on Aug. 26, 1939. He was in the broadcast booth when Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier in 1947, and as a Yankee announcer he called Roger Maris's 61st home run on the radio in 1961.
        "Back, back, back, back, back, back," was the trademark staccato Mr. Barber used to pace Al Gionfriddo as the Dodger outfielder went to the left-center-field fence in Yankee Stadium to rob Joe DiMaggio of a game-tying home run in Game 6 of the 1947 World Series. Barber summed up the stunning one-handed catch against the bullpen with his signature, "Oh-ho, Doctor!"
        For all the appeal of his colorful language, his crisp, conversational delivery and his voice of ginger-flavored honey, what led Mr. Barber to be hailed as the greatest baseball broadcaster of his age was his on-air demeanor, from the quiet authority of his expert commentary to the homilies and psychological insights of his between-play asides.
        As the novelist Philip Roth once put it: "Henry James might himself have admired the implicit cultural ironies and the splendid possibilities for oblique moral and social commentary."
        Above all, Mr. Barber was known for his invariable fairness and objectivity. His very integrity led him to leave one job (in 1953, after Walter O'Malley took over the Dodgers and urged Mr. Barber to make his commentary more supportive of the team) and cost him another (in 1966, when he was dismissed by the Yankees after noting that the last-place team had drawn precisely 413 fans to a September game).
        Walter Lanier Barber was born in Columbus, Miss., on Feb. 17, 1908, the son of a school teacher and a locomotive engineer, who conferred his son's middle name in honor of a distant relative, the poet Sidney Lanier.
        When he was 10, the family moved to the truck-farming area near Sanford, Fla., where Mr. Barber attended high school and worked at a variety of jobs from celery picker to truck driver.
        Shortly after his 21st birthday, he hitch-hiked to the University of Florida at Gainesville with $100 and a new pair of shoes and began attending classes while supporting himself with a succession of jobs, including part-time janitor at the University Club.
        It was while making beds at the club that chance led him to abandon his dream of becoming an English professor. A professor who had a conflicting engagement asked him to take his place and read a paper on "Certain Aspects of Bovine Obstetrics," over the campus radio station. Mr. Barber did so well and liked the work so much that he gravitated to the station, eventually dropping out of school to become its director and chief announcer. Behind a Microphone at 26
        After four years with the campus station and several summer vacations scouring the country for other radio work, he was asked by the Reds' new owner, Powel Crosley Jr., to broadcast the team's games over the Crosley radio stations in Cincinnati.
        On opening day in 1934, after conducting a pre-game interview with Charlie Grimm, the manager of the rival Cubs, 26-year-old Red Barber took his place behind a microphone and broadcast the first major league game he had ever seen.
        Mr. Barber is survived by his wife, the former Lylah Scarborough, and a daughter, Sarah Lanier Barber, a former English professor at La Guardia Community College in Queens, who now lives in Santa Fe, N.M.
      