
        Richard P. Hunt, a retired foreign correspondent for newspapers, radio and television, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70 years old.
        He died of complications of cancer, his family said yesterday.
        Mr. Hunt was best known for his reporting from the Middle East for The New York Times and later for NBC News radio and television, and from Singapore, the base from which he covered the wars in Vietnam and Cambodia for NBC News.
        He interviewed heads of state, including King Faisal of Saudi Arabia, the Shah of Iran and King Hussein of Jordan shortly after King Hussein came to power as a young man.
        When civil war broke out in Lebanon in 1958 and the United States Marines landed, the entire Middle East was in crisis. In a diary, Mr. Hunt chronicled the frustrations of his six-day odyssey from Beirut to Baghdad.
        It was a tale of finessing a visa on a Muslim holiday, canceled plane rides, resourceful taxi and bus drivers, negotiations with stubborn border guards and rebel chieftains, dusty roads that disappeared for miles in the desert and getting directions from a Bedouin camel herdsman. Upon arrival, he was confronted with demands for an Arabic translation of his reports for censors to read. No translator was available and the rule was finally waived.
        Mr. Hunt began reporting at local paper in Geneva, N.Y., in 1950. He later joined The Associated Press in Albany, where he became the bureau's chief political correspondent.
        He joined The New York Times in 1955, where he covered city news, state politics and Sub-Saharan Africa. He was at NBC News from 1964 to 1980, the last several years as director of its Northeast bureau, covering the United Nations and the Three-Mile Island nuclear plant disaster.
        He came out of retirement for a few years in the mid-1980's to serve as the news editor of the MacNeil-Lehrer television news program.
        Born in Streator, Ill., Mr. Hunt grew up in Buffalo. He graduated from Yale University in 1942. In World War II, he served as a lieutenant on a Navy destroyer in the Pacific.
        His marriage to Carla Fitch ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his son, Christopher of Palo Alto, Calif.; a daughter, Abigail Hunt of Manhattan, and two brothers, Reed and P.J., both of Buffalo.
      