
        Edward F. Denison, an economist who was an expert on national income and production, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 76 years old.
        The cause of death was not determined, but he had suffered from heart disease, his family said.
        Mr. Denison served for 18 years as an official in the United States Commerce Department, working at various times in the Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower, Carter and Reagan Administrations. For 30 years he also worked for the Brookings Institution, a nonpartisan economics and public policy research organization.
        In the 1940's and 50's, Mr. Denison was credited with developing the measurement of the United States gross national product, which in turn became the basis for similar calculations in other nations. His colleagues in that project included Milton Gilbert, George Jaszi and Charles F. Schwartz. Impacts on Productivity
        Expanding on his work at Brookings in the 1960's, he developed new studies on the causes of economic growth, including increased capital, improved education of workers and scientific and technological advances. His methods and analyses were adopted by scholars around the world. His later research looked at the effect on productivity of factors like dishonesty, tax law revisions, energy costs and government regulations like pollution control and worker safety.
        Despite his detailed findings, he also acknowledged that some causes of economic trends remained "a mystery."
        Mr. Denison was a former vice president of the American Economic Association, executive committee chairman of the Conference on Research in Income and Wealth and member of the governing board of the National Economists Club. He wrote several books and numerous articles.
        Born in Omaha, he grew up in Oak Park, Ill. After graduating from Oberlin College in 1936, he earned a master's degree in economics in 1938 and a doctorate in 1941, both at Brown University.
        At the Commerce Department he was an economist and the acting chief of the National Income Division from 1941 to 1948, assistant director of the Business Economics Office from 1949 to 1956 and associate director of National Economic Accounts from 1979 to 1982. At Brookings he was a research fellow in 1939 and 1940, a senior fellow from 1962 to 1978 and an active senior fellow emeritus since 1982.
        At the end of World War II, he studied the effects of Allied bombing on Germany. In 1951 he graduated from the National War College.
        Surviving are his wife of 51 years, the former Elsie Lightbown; a son, Edward B. Denison of Palatine, Ill.; a daughter, State Senator Janet Howell of Reston, Va.; two sisters, Edna Ferguson and Miriam Burton, both of Seattle, and four grandchildren.
      