
        Jacques Aubuchon, an actor who appeared in more than 20 feature films, 300 television dramas and 10 Broadway plays, died on Saturday at his home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 67 years old.
        He died of heart failure, said his daughter-in-law, Joanna Lipari Aubuchon.
        During the early years of live television, Mr. Aubuchon was a frequent performer on "Studio One," "Robert Montgomery Presents," "Philco Playhouse," "Kraft Theater" and "Omnibus." In later years, as a television-series regular, he played Chief Urulu, a loin-cloth-clad native on "McHale's Navy," and Lieut. Jules Maurola on "Paris 7000" with George Hamilton.  Many TV Guest Appearances
        He also made guest appearances in more than 300 television shows, including "Twilight Zone," "Gunsmoke," "Columbo," "Switch," "Ironside," "The Man From U.N.C.L.E.," "The Waltons," "Hawaii Five O," "Marcus Welby" and "Perry Mason."
        Mr. Aubuchon appeared in more than 20 feature films, including "The Silver Chalice," "The Shaggy Dog" and "Thunder Road."
        Mr. Aubuchon was born in Fitchburg, Mass., and served in the United States Army during World War II as an interpreter with the French Forces' Signal Center Language Team. In 1947, he studied acting at the American Theater Wing for Advanced Studies.  Broadway Debut in 'Madwoman'
        In 1949 he made his Broadway debut as the Sewer Man in "The Madwoman of Chaillot." Among his other Broadway credits were "Mr. Pickwick," "The Happy Time," "Cyrano de Bergerac," "Charley's Aunt" and "The Shrike." In Los Angeles, he appeared in many stage productions including "In the Matter of J. Robert Oppenheimer" and "Chemin de Fer" at the Mark Taper Forum, "God Almighty" at Theater West and the Center Theater Group's production of "Measure for Measure."
        He is survived by his wife, Denise; two sons, Remi and Philippe; a daughter, Danielle, and a grandson, Guillaume, all of Los Angeles, and a brother, Robert, and three sisters, Marcella, Therese and Charlotte, all of Fitchburg.
      