
        John L. Martin, a Columbia University professor and an AIDS researcher who started a pioneering study on the sexual behavior of gay men and the emotional impact of the AIDS epidemic, died of the disease on Friday at his home in Los Angeles.
        He was 38 years old and had his primary residence in Manhattan.
        He continued working until the final days of his illness, said Laura Dean, an associate and friend, who gave the cause of death.
        Mr. Martin's study, an annual follow-up survey of hundreds of New York City gay men, was developed in 1982 soon after the first few AIDS cases emerged.
        The study asks hundreds of questions on topics such as age, race and income, the number of sex partners, safer sex practices, testing and anxiety. The data have produced more than 20 papers in professional journals so far. The project, a model for surveys elsewhere, will continue.
        Among its findings were that AIDS made most gay men more cautious sexually, with fewer partners, fewer anonymous encounters and more use of condoms. Another finding was that there was a high degree of stress in those who were infected with the AIDS virus and those who experienced repeated bereavement, often while still in their 30's and 40's.
        Professor Martin was cited for outstanding achievement by the American Psychological Association in 1990, twice was a fellow at the Center for Advanced Studies in the Behaviorial Sciences at Stanford and in 1991 won a five-year research grant from the National Institute of Mental Health.
        He was also a consultant to local, state and national agencies, including the National Institute of Drug Abuse, the National Academy of Sciences and the city's expert panel that reviewed disputed estimates on the number of people infected with AIDS.
        Professor Martin was born in Naples, where his father was in the United States military, and grew up in Berkeley, Calif., where he graduated from the University of California. He earned a doctorate in psychology from the City University of New York and later a master's degree in public health from Columbia.
        His companion is Michael Salvetta of North Hollywood, Calif.
        Mr. Martin is survived by his parents, Gertrude and Henry, of Penn Valley, Calif.; three sisters, Mary, of Corte Madera, Calif., Jane, of Kensington, Calif., and Judy, of McCall, Idaho; and three brothers, James, of Winnemucca, Nev., Michael, of San Jose, Calif., and Larry, of Boise, Idaho.
      