
        Shien-Ming Wu, who helped to modernize automobile factories and other industries around the world, died on Wednesday at the St. Joseph Mercy Hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 68 years old and lived in Ann Arbor.
        He died of complications from heart surgery, his family said.
        Dr. Wu developed a system for improving automated mass production. He used mathematical formulas and computerized data from operating machines to analyze production constantly and determine ways to improve precision, quality and efficiency. His method also explored changes that might be made, avoiding the time and expense of actual trial-and-error experimentation.
        He called his approach "the dynamic data system" and it was adopted by all three major American automobile manufacturers: General Motors, Ford and Chrysler. He served as a consultant to them and 30 other companies.
        Dr. Wu published more than 300 articles in scientific and engineering journals and trained 113 doctoral students in manufacturing engineering. About a fourth of the current faculty in that field studied under him or one of his students. Gave Away Prize Money
        Among the honors he won were the Society of Manufacturing Engineers National Education Award and a $100,000 prize last year from the Chiang Industrial Charity Foundation in Hong Kong. He donated the money to the University of Michigan, where he taught manufacturing technology and was also the director of the National Science Foundation's Industry-University Cooperative Research Center.
        Dr. Wu, whose was known as Sam, was born in Chekiang, China. After graduating from the Chiao-Tung University in Shanghai in 1945, he worked for nine years for the Nanking-Shanghai and Taiwan Railroads.
        Moving to the United States, he earned a master's degree in transportation at the Wharton School in 1956, a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering in 1958 at the University of Wisconsin and a doctorate in mechanical engineering there in 1962.
        For 30 years he taught at the University of Wisconsin before joining the Michigan faculty in 1987. He was a Fulbright professor in the Soviet Union in 1988.
        Surviving are his wife of 33 years, the former Daisy Te-Hsien Tsui; a daughter, Elaine Stephenson of Ann Arbor, and two sisters, Shan-Ying Wu of Shanghai and Chan-Zhen Wu of Chekiang.
      