
        Oliver R. Grace, a philanthropist and co-founder of a major private investment company, died on Thursday while vacationing at the Everglades Club in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 82 years old and was a resident of Oyster Bay, L.I.
        He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Grace starting working in 1930 as a statistician at Grace National Bank, a family enterprise that became Marine Midland Bank. In 1936 he and two others founded Sterling, Grace & Company, an investment business based in Manhattan. That company and their later firm, Sterling Grace Capital Management, eventually had holdings in hundreds of companies and assets in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
        As an extension of his investments, Mr. Grace became involved in overseeing many companies. He served on the boards of the American Distilling Company, American-Hawaiian Steamship Company, Foster Wheeler Corporation, Great Neck Trust Company, Kennecott Corporation, Reeves Telecom Corporation, Republic Automotive Parts, the Slattery Group, United Chemical, Universal American Corporation, Virginia Carolina Chemical Corporation and Webb & Knapp, among others. Founded Cancer Institute
        He also was chairman of the Andersen Group and two companies he founded, Grace & White, an investment company, and Grace Geothermal Corporation, an energy company. He remained active in business until his death.
        As a philanthropist he co-founded the Cancer Research Institute in Manhattan in 1953, serving as its president or chairman since then. He was a trustee, executive committee member and benefactor of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory on Long Island and a vice president of the National Institute of Social Sciences. He was also on the boards of the Theodore Roosevelt Association and Franklin College in Switzerland.
        Born in Great Neck, L.I., Mr. Grace was a distant cousin of J. Peter Grace of W. R. Grace & Company. He graduated from Yale University in 1930. Deferred from military service in World War II because of blindness in one eye, Mr. Grace worked for two years as a volunteer on the War Production Board.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Lorraine Graves; their daughters, Lori, of Tiburon, Calif., and Gwendolyn Kull of Bethesda, Md.; their two sons, Oliver Jr., of Locust Valley, L.I., and John, of Manalapan, Fla.; three daughters by a prior marriage to Anne Chilton McDonnell: Helen Spencer of Greenwich, Conn., Anne Kelly of Montecito, Calif., and Ruth Jervis of Bel Air, Calif.; two brothers, Morgan, of Great Neck, and Robert, of Palm Beach; 20 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      