
        Haldore Hanson, a State Department official who was cleared of charges by Senator Joseph McCarthy that he was a Communist sympathizer, died on Sept. 24 at a hospital in Texcoco, Mexico. He was 80 years old and lived in San Nicholas, Mexico, and Arcola, Va.
        He had heart disease and died after a leg operation, his family said.
        As a foreign correspondent in the 1930's, Mr. Hanson covered the Chinese civil war and the invasion of China by Japan. Traveling rural roads on bicycle, he rotated among the warring forces and occasionally was arrested by one side or the other.
        His book on the war, "Humane Endeavor" (Farrar, Rineholt, 1939), was praised as a rare close-up from the remote front lines. Because of his expertise, the State Department hired him in 1942. After the war he became assistant director of the Point Four development aid program for Asia. 'I Am a Loyal American'
        In 1950, Senator McCarthy denounced him as having "pro-Communist proclivities" and accused him of being on "a mission to communize the world." The Senator offered no proof.
        Mr. Hanson denied any involvement with Communists, saying, "I am a loyal American." A Senate subcommittee found no evidence against him, but the charges still damaged Mr. Hanson, who told the subcommittee how neighbors in Virginia had circulated a petition to drive him out, and how one had called him a Russian spy.
        After surviving the controversy, he lost his job in 1953 in a staff reorganization and cutback that the agency said were unrelated to the charges.
        In the 1960's he worked on development in Burma, Iran, Nigeria and Pakistan for the Ford Foundation and other organizations. From 1971 to 1978 he headed the International Wheat and Maize Improvement Center in Mexico, supported by the Mexican government, the World Bank and the Rockefeller Foundation.
        Born in Virginia, Minn., Mr. Hanson grew up in Duluth, Minn. He graduated from Carleton College.
        He taught school and did freelance writing for publications in China and abroad, covering floods, famine and the opium trade. The Associated Press promoted him to full-time correspondent in 1937 and he returned to the United States in 1939 to work in domestic bureaus.
        Surviving are his wife of 53 years, the former Bernice Brown; a son, Eric of Burlington, Vt.; a daughter, Signe Hanson of Pompton Lakes, N.J.; a sister, Janet Hanson of Duluth; and three brothers, Chuck Hanson of San Clemente, Calif., and Fritz Hanson and Richard Hanson, both of Duluth.
      