
        Shizuo Takano, a former electronics executive who led the development of the VHS videocassette recorder, died today in Japan, news reports said. He was 68 years old.
        He died of a respiratory ailment, according to The Associated Press, which attributed the information to Mr. Takano's former employer, the Victor Company of Japan, known as JVC.
        The VHS system, first marketed in 1976, is now the standard for home VCR's, having beaten out the Sony Corporation's Beta format in one of the most bitter marketing and technology battles in the electronics business. About 350 million VHS machines have been sold, according to JVC.
        Mr. Takano was born in 1923 in Yokohama and graduated from Hamamatsu Technical College, where he specialized in precision equipment. He joined JVC in 1946, The A.P. said, after serving in the Japanese navy as an engineer for two years.
        Mr. Takano once compared the development of video recorder technology to his hobby of growing and shaping the miniature trees known as bonsai. Both require years of unwavering commitment before they bear fruit, he said in an interview in 1984.
        At that time, Mr. Takano held the title of senior managing direcotor of JVC's video research and development laboratories.  VCR Developed in U.S.
        The videocassette recorder was first developed in the United States for use by television broadcasters, but Japanese companies initially developed systems for consumer use.
        VHS, which stands for video home system, did not appear on the market until more than a year after Sony introduced its Betamax recorder in 1974. To this day, some experts say the Beta format offered superior pictures.
        But Mr. Takano and his colleagues insured from the start that VHS would allow two hours of recording rather than the one hour originally possible with Beta. Through the years, both companies continued to increase the recording time offered by their systems, but the VHS system generally stayed ahead.
        In another strategic decision, Mr. Takano and his colleagues at JVC licensed the technology to other manufacturers so that many VHS brands would enter the market.
        Chief among the supporters of VHS was Sony's archrival, the Matsushita Electric Industrial Company, which is known for its Panasonic brand and owns about half of JVC. In the United States, the RCA Corporation became a leading seller of VHS recorders.
        After a battle of several years,video rental stores stopped carrying tapes recorded in the Beta format. By 1988, Sony was forced to throw in the towel and began making VHS recorders.
        The names of surviving family members were not immediately available.
      