
        Some of the luminaries of the worlds of labor, folk music and progressive politics in New York City and beyond filled Avery Fisher Hall yesterday in tribute to Leon J. Davis, the founder of the nation's largest labor organization of health-care workers, who died last month.
        As his widow, Julia Gaberman, sat in the second row, one friend after another, from the civil rights leader Coretta Scott King to the actor Ossie Davis and the singer Pete Seeger, praised Mr. Davis for his progressive leadership of Local 1199 of the Hospital and Health Care Employees Union, which for decades has represented orderlies, aides, clerks, janitors, laundry workers and other employees of hospitals, nursing homes and pharmacies.
        "Leon Davis would be the first to admit that 1199 was not built because of him, but because of the work of thousands of average and ordinary workers," said Moe Foner, head of the union's cultural program. "Scores of labor leaders throughout the country learned the ABC's of organizing from Leon Davis." Praise From Dinkins
        With a huge portrait of the bearded Mr. Davis hanging on the stage, other friends and family members recalled, in song and poetry and even childhood memories, the labor leader's single-mindedness and integrity.
        Mayor David N. Dinkins, who was elected with the support of Local 1199, called Mr. Davis "a truly remarkable man with a noble soul." He said that he would propose changing the name of a stretch of West 43d Street, where the headquarters of Local 1199 are situated, in honor of Mr. Davis.
        He retired as head of the union in 1982, and died Sept. 14 at Long Island Jewish Medical Center of heart failure. Mr. Davis was 85 years old and lived in Queens and in Lake Worth, Fla.
        Born Leon Julius Davis on Nov. 21, 1906, in Pinsk, Russia, he came to the United States in 1921 at the age of 15.
        In 1932, when he was working as a drugstore clerk, he and a half-dozen other clerks founded the union that grew to a peak membership of 150,000 in the 1970's. Changing the Lives of Workers
        "I personally know what life was like for hospital workers both before and after the union came in," said Josephine Bell, 78, who took part in a 46-day strike led by Mr. Davis in 1959 when she was a nurse's aide at Mount Sinai Hospital. "Before our strike, we had little money, worked long hours, got no respect from our supervisors and had no job security."
        Under Mr. Davis's leadership, the union transformed the workplace for her and her co-workers, Ms. Bell said."He brought to our life respect and love and understanding. We the members of 1199 loved the good friend we had in Leon Davis."
        In a more personal tribute, Liane Vida Davis of Lawrence, Kan., one of Mr. Davis's two daughters, remembered a childhood dominated by her father's labor struggles.
        "My father had two loves," she said, "the union, and his family."
      