
        Allan Bloom, the professor of political philosophy whose book on American universities became a best-selling text for conservative attacks on contemporary intellectual life, died yesterday at the University of Chicago's Bernard Mitchell Hospital.
        Mr. Bloom, 62 years old, died of peptic ulcer bleeding complicated by liver failure, said a spokesman at the University of Chicago, where Mr. Bloom had taught since 1979. He had been hospitalized for several weeks.
        The publication of Mr. Bloom's book, "The Closing of the American Mind," (Simon & Schuster, 1987) transformed him from an obscure professor, little known outside the University of Chicago, to a cranky icon of conservative views about education, music, morals and the values held by society.
        The book -- a long, sometimes dense account of two decades in higher education, as seen through his own experience teaching at Chicago, Cornell and Yale -- attributed many university problems to administrators' having acquiesced to student demands in the 1960's and 1970's. He criticized the passing of such traditional university ideas as the reliance on the so-called great books of Western culture, and lamented that even students at the nation's most elite universities seemed to have "lost the practice of and the taste for reading." 'Essential Reading'
        Mr. Bloom argued that universities' increasing reliance on "relevance," and their turning away from what he saw as constant or universal truths had the unintended effect of actually closing the American mind.
        In a review for The New York Times, Roger Kimball, a fellow critic of higher education who went on to write his own book about the decline of university standards, called Mr. Bloom's book "essential reading for anyone concerned with the state of liberal education in this society."
        At first Mr. Bloom said he had trouble finding a publisher for the book because it was considered stuffy and he was relatively unknown. But it came out just when tuition at private universities was soaring and questions about the value of education were mounting, and it resonated with American readers. It was No. 1 on The New York Times' best-seller list for 10 weeks and has sold more than one million copies in the United States.
        The book's success surprised Mr. Bloom as much as it did everyone else.
        "Sometimes I can't believe it," he told a reporter in 1988. "It's fun being No. 1 on the best-seller list. It's like being declared Cary Grant, or a rock star. All this energy passing through you. . . . "
        But the book's belligerent tone made Mr. Bloom a target of considerable criticism himself. His philosophical opponents questioned his scholarship and denounced him as rigid, sexist, elitist and anti-democratic. David Rieff, a senior editor at Farrar, Straus & Giroux, called Mr. Bloom vengeful, reactionary and an academic version of Lieut. Col. Oliver L. North. He said "The Closing of the American Mind" was a book "decent people would be ashamed of having written."
        Far from being upset by such criticism, Mr. Bloom seemed to revel in goading the intellectual elite. Since the book was published, his name has become virtually synonymous with traditionalist views of higher education and is invariably invoked in debates about multiculturalism, curriculum reform, political correctness and other issues confronting American universities.  University as Battleground
        Mr. Bloom dismissed many popular trends in universities, and on nearly every page of the 392-page book championed the notion that certain fundamental ideas ought to be valued no matter what. As he saw it, universities are a crucial battleground in American society.
        "A crisis in the university, the home of reason, is perhaps the profoundest crisis," for a modern democratic nation, he concluded.
        In 1990 Mr. Bloom published another book, "Giants and Dwarfs," a collection of essays written over a period of 30 years. The essays, including one that begins "Fellow elitists," extended his critique of higher education's foibles and earned him even more enmity.
        While he was often accused of an almost reactionary conservatism, Mr. Bloom did differentiate between faddish ideas and authentic change. In "The Closing of the American Mind," for example, he wrote the following about the American family:
        "I am not arguing here that the old family arrangements were good or that we should or could go back to them. I am only insisting that we not cloud our vision to such an extent that we believe that there are viable substitutes for them just because we want or need them." Son of Social Workers
        Mr. Bloom was born in Indianapolis in 1930, the son of Jewish social workers. When his family moved to Chicago in 1946 he enrolled at the University of Chicago, receiving a bachelor's degree in liberal arts in 1949.
        The university, with its strict tradition of required study of Western thought and classics literature, became a touchstone in his life. "When I was 15 years old I saw the University of Chicago for the first time and somehow sensed that I had discovered my life," he wrote in "The Closing of the American Mind."
        He earned a Ph.D. in social thought, in 1955, from the University of Chicago's Committee on Social Thought, an elite interdisciplinary graduate department. He taught at the university from 1955 to 1960, at Yale University until 1963 and at Cornell University until 1970.
        In 1969, while Mr. Bloom was at Cornell, student protesters, armed with guns, occupied a campus building and won numerous concessions from Cornell administrators on curriculum matters. Mr. Bloom later pinpointed concessions like these as marking the beginning of the end for great American universities.
        After leaving Cornell in 1970, Mr. Bloom became a professor of political science at the University of Toronto. In 1979, when he was 49, he returned to the University of Chicago and the Committee on Social Thought, where he rejoined his friend and colleague, the Nobel laureate, Saul Bellow.
        It was Mr. Bellow who encouraged Mr. Bloom to expand a magazine article he had written for The National Review into a book on the condition of higher education. That became "The Closing of the American Mind," subtitled "How Higher Education Has Failed Democracy and Impoverished the Souls of Today's Students." Mr. Bellow wrote the book's forward.
        Mr. Bloom produced eight books during his academic career. His translations of Plato's "Republic" and Jean-Jacques Rousseau's "Emile" are widely used in college courses.
        Last year he completed a new book, "Love and Friendship." In it, he explores the contrasting notions of love as embodied in the great romantic novels, the plays of William Shakespeare and Plato's "Symposium."
        Mr. Bloom, a heavy smoker, suffered a heart attack in 1972.
        Mr. Bloom was a bachelor. He is survived by his mother, Malvina Bloom Wessel, and his stepfather, Herman Wessel, both of Philadelphia, and a sister, Lucille Wallace of Winnetka, Ill.
      