
        Louis Smadbeck, a leading New York real-estate executive for more than four decades, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 72 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Waccabuc, N.Y.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, his family reported.
        Over the years, Mr. Smadbeck negotiated the sale of some of Manhattan's most important apartment buildings, including the Dakota on Central Park West at 72d Street; the Beresford at Central Park West and 81st Street; 730 Fifth Avenue at 57th Street, and 755 Park Avenue at 72d Street. At his death, he was co-chairman, with Alan Tishman, of the real-estate firm of Wm. A. White/Grubb & Ellis Inc.
        Mr. Smadbeck was born in Manhattan into a real-estate family. His grandfather and namesake was a developer in Westchester County as was his father, Arthur, a former president of the New York Coliseum. His mother, Ruth, was president of the Heckscher Foundation for Children, which he himself served as a fund-raiser and chairman.
        He graduated from Brown University in 1942 and joined the Army's Signal Intelligence Service, a forerunner of the National Security Agency. He was sent to England and attached to a unit under British command that intercepted and deciphered coded German communications. Acquisition and Sale
        Mr. Smadbeck, who was discharged with the rank of captain, began his business career with the firm of Charles F. Noyes. He was named a vice president in 1950 but left during the Korean War to serve as an intelligence officer in Japan and South Korea.
        In 1960 he moved to Wm. A. White & Sons as executive vice president. He was named president four years later, leading the firm into a position of prominence in the New York market. It acquired Tishman East Management in 1984, becoming Wm. A. White/Tishman East Inc. with him as co-chairman. Two years later the merged firm was sold to the San Francisco-based Grubb & Ellis, a national real-estate company.
        Mr. Smadbeck, who put a premium on talent and experience, ignored age limits and recruited top performers idled by mandatory retirement clauses at other firms. The Real Estate Board of New York awarded him its "Most Ingenious Deal of the Year" award in 1981 for the sale and lease-back of the Actors Equity Building, at Broadway and 46th Street. The deal was intended to raise cash for the union and let it stay in place for 75 years longer at a favorable rent.
        Mr. Smadbeck was the host of a Saturday morning program on the classical music station WNCN, "The Real Estate Report." He was a trustee of Carnegie Hall and the Juilliard School and was a past director of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies and a trustee and former elder of the Brick Presbyterian Church on Park Avenue. For several years, he was co-chairman of the United States National Tennis Championships at Forest Hills.
        Mr. Smadbeck is survived by his wife, the former Mina Masback; four sons by a previous marriage to Justine Tyrrell Priestley: Arthur, of Martha's Vineyard, Mass., Louis Jr., of West Palm Beach, Fla., David, of Gainesville, Fla., and Paul, of North Salem, N.Y.; a sister, Virginia Sloane of Larchmont, N.Y.; three stepsons, Bryan Masback of Scarsdale, N.Y., Dennis and Kevin Masback of Manhattan, and 14 grandchildren.
      