
        Willy Brandt, whose life spanned the defeat of his German fatherland in two world wars and who won the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to overcome the cold-war division of Europe, died last night. He was 78 years old.
        Mr. Brandt, who had been under treatment for intestinal cancer for the past year, had spent recent weeks at his home in Unkel, near Bonn.
        By the time of his death, the Social Democratic leader had lived to see East and West Germany united and the Iron Curtain torn down.
        His tenure as Federal Chancellor of West Germany from 1969 to 1974 was a turning point in the history of the German people, and he himself was a figure of conciliation in both the domestic and foreign policies of a divided nation.
        Mr. Brandt's life was filled with drama. He was pursued by the Gestapo, denounced by Communists, came under fire as a reporter in the Spanish Civil War and experienced underground adventures in wartime, three marriages, the love of other women, the heights of electoral triumph, the depths of political defeat.
        He also came to symbolize a Germany of peace, tolerance and a measure of modesty -- qualities that had been erased from the image of Germans during the catastrophic rule of Hitler.
        Das andere Deutschland -- "the other Germany" of Goethe, Kant, Schiller, Heine and Beethoven -- was what Mr. Brandt and other anti-Nazis saw themselves representing during the 12-year rule of Hitler, Himmler, Goebbels and Goering.  A Clear View From East to West
        His major achievements began in 1970. Supported by only the thinnest of parliamentary majorities, he guided West Germany through arduous negotiations that eventually led to normal relations with the Soviet Union, Poland and East Germany and the easing of tensions in Central Europe. He was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1971.
        The effort at a new Ostpolitik, a policy toward the East, was complemented by Mr. Brandt's achievements in deepening West Germany's involvement in the European Common Market and in broadening the community to include Britain, Denmark and Ireland. West Germany was also able to enter the United Nations in 1973.
        This was the logical extension of the policy inaugurated by the first Chancellor, Konrad Adenauer. Mr. Brandt called it "a German peace policy," and its effect was to close the books on Germany's role as a pariah.
        From the beginning of World War II, Mr. Brandt had been animated by the belief that Germany's only real future lay in a united Europe, and this thread formed the fabric of Ostpolitik.
        Mr. Brandt had signaled the change when he took office in October 1969, declaring, "I will not be the Chancellor of a conquered Germany, but of a liberated Germany!"
        Behind the declaration there was also Mr. Brandt's determination to end two decades of hostility between West and East Germany. This was the national component of his Ostpolitik.
        At the time West Germany was largely isolated from Eastern Europe and the object of vituperative attacks by the Soviet bloc. It was difficult for ordinary West Germans to visit relatives in East Germany, and the national division was deepening day by day.
        Before Mr. Brandt's accession to the Chancellorship, he was badly beaten in runs for the office in 1961 and 1965, first by Adenauer and then by Ludwig Erhard. His first term as Chancellor was cut short when his parliamentary majority evaporated.
        His second term was ended by a spy scandal when it was disclosed that a top party aide, Gunter Guillaume, was an East German spy.
        Mr. Brandt had overcome enormous adversities throughout his life: His birth was illegitimate and he was a political exile in Norway in the Nazi era, until his return to Germany in 1948.
        "He who has a sense of history will not lightly overlook the fact that a man of my origin and my convictions has become the German Minister of Foreign Affairs," he told his new colleagues in the Foreign Office in 1966.
        In its understatement, this was a typical Brandt utterance. Willy Brandt was born Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm on Dec. 18, 1913, the son of Martha Frahm, a young shopgirl in Lubeck. "I learned later who my father was," he told a biographer in 1974. "He was from Hamburg and he lived until after World War II. I never saw him."
        His grandfather, who was passionately committed to the Social Democratic Party, gave the boy his first political lessons. Mr. Brandt later recalled carrying food to his grandfather during a strike in Lubeck and being instructed not to accept gifts from employers during a strike, for they were "the enemy."
        In school the boy caught the eye of a history teacher, Eilhard Erich Pauls, who encouraged his first writing.
        Outside school he drew the attention of Julius Leber, a Social Democratic leader and newspaper editor who became a mentor and arranged that he join the Social Democratic Party in 1930, while still a year under the minimum age.
        But the young man soon became disgusted with the compromises of the party, especially with regard to the growing Nazi menace, and in 1931 he joined a radical splinter called the Socialist Workers Party. When Hitler seized power in January 1933, the youth went underground, taking the nom de guerre Willy Brandt.
        Already on the Gestapo wanted lists, he escaped to Denmark in a fishing boat in April 1933. His assignment: to establish an office of the Socialist Workers in Norway.
        In Norway he came under the influence of Marxist intellectuals. But he was attracted to the pragmatic ideas of the Norwegian Socialists, who took over the Government in 1935. By then, he had begun to earn his living as a journalist and lecturer, and he became a Norwegian citizen. Deeper Involvement Against the Nazis
        Mr. Brandt burned to get more deeply involved in the struggle against the Nazis. He traveled to Germany in the summer of 1936, disguised as a Norwegian student, to work with the anti-Hitler underground for six months, and in 1937 he went to Spain to cover the civil war.
        Throughout these years he was among the German leftists seeking a "united front" of Socialists and Communists against Hitler. It was a hopeless effort, he found, and this also pushed him toward the Social Democrats and away from the Communists. He had also drifted away from his first love, Gertrud Meyer, from Lubeck.
        At the outbreak of World War II, Mr. Brandt began writing the first of more than a dozen books, "War Aims of the Great Powers." On the eve of its scheduled publication, in April 1940, the Wehrmacht attacked Norway and he fled into the mountains, leaving behind his pregnant sweetheart, Carlota Thorkildsen.
        But he was captured near Mithet and interned for a month as a Norwegian. After release and a brief reunion with Thorkildsen, he escaped to neutral Sweden. In December 1940 he returned to occupied Norway, again in disguise, for a glimpse of his newborn daughter, Ninja. The three later made their way to Sweden, where they married.
        He remained in Sweden, earning his living as a journalist and writing four books about Norway's resistance and about postwar Europe. By the end of the war he had separated from his wife; his new companion was Rut Bergaust, another Norwegian exile in Stockholm.
        Mr. Brandt did not return to Germany until October 1946, as a Norwegian correspondent at the war-crimes trials in Nuremberg. He wrote of the trials' significance: "The Germans must carry the responsibility. Responsibility, however, is not the same as guilt. Those who do not feel guilty and are not guilty of the Nazi crimes cannot -- if they want to go on working in this nation and make it better -- withdraw from the consequences of a policy which the greater majority of the nation acceded to: They cannot place themselves outside the community of responsibility."
        When Kurt Schumacher, the leader of the Social Democrats, asked Mr. Brandt to work for the party in Berlin in late 1947, he quickly accepted. During the blockade his son Peter was born, a few weeks after Mr. Brandt and Rut Bergaust were married. They had two more sons, Lars and Matthias.
        He soon entered the circle around Ernst Reuter, another former exile. When Reuter became mayor in late 1948, with the Soviet Union's blockade at its tightest, Mr. Brandt was at his side.
        He had already won acceptance for a fiery speech denouncing the Communist takeover in Czechoslovakia that spring, saying, "To socialize the plumbers and the barber shops, they establish the proletarian dictatorship and Red terror. Old Marx would turn in his grave if he knew what bald foolishness one created in his name."
        Party colleagues later said this speech launched Mr. Brandt's political career. He associated himself with a moderate "Europeanist" wing around Reuter and struggled against a more nationalist group led by Schumacher that opposed integration of Germany into the European Community.
        Mr. Brandt was elected Mayor of West Berlin in September 1957 and the post provided a springboard. Rallying Support For Imperiled Berlin
        1958, the threat of the Soviet leader, Nikita S. Khrushchev, to "free" West Berlin within six months elevated Mr. Brandt to international renown. He traveled tirelessly abroad in behalf of the beleaguered city.
        He also capitalized on his international fame by publishing an "as told to" autobiography titled "My Road to Berlin," intended partly to counter the many innuendoes in the press that he had been either a Communist or a Gestapo agent.
        In 1961 the Soviet Union and East Germany began a new offensive against West Berlin to curb the flight of East German refugees, which had reached 3 million. The night of Aug. 12-13 they began raising barriers along the 28-mile border between East and West Berlin.
        Meeting no resistance from the United States, Britain and France, the Communists soon expanded the barriers into a wall. Mr. Brandt was indignant, and he briefly drew the wrath of President John F. Kennedy for suggesting strong countermeasures. But he was helpless.
        He was also running for Chancellor against Adenauer, who campaigned against him as "Herr Frahm," a reference to his illegitimacy. The West German electorate heartily endorsed Adenauer again.
        Despite his defeat, Mr. Brandt remained popular with the Social Democrats, and succeeded in guiding the party toward the center, thus broadening its appeal beyond its traditional trade-union constituency. In 1963, he was elected party chairman.
        When Herbert Wehner, the party's strategist, negotiated a coalition in 1966 with the Christian Democrats under their Chancellor, Kurt Georg Kiesinger, Mr. Brandt entered the cabinet as Foreign Minister.
        Mr. Brandt broke fresh ground in 1968 by telling Warsaw that West Germany would accept governance by Poland over 40,000 square miles of former German territory. He also made NATO's first call for mutual troop reductions in Central Europe.
        By the time regular elections were near in September 1969, Mr. Brandt was at last ready and fully determined to win. He emerged with 12 seats more than needed, though defections soon reduced this to three. Start of an Opening Toward the East
        His eastern policy -- he immediately acknowledged that "two states exist in Germany" -- took him to Erfurt in March 1970 to confer with Premier Willi Stoph of East Germany. A crowd of 2,000 hailed him as if he were the leader of a united Germany, but it took West Germany two and a half years to negotiate normal ties.
        Negotiations with the Soviet Union and Poland moved more swiftly, although there was hard bargaining. Mr. Brandt traveled to Moscow in August and Warsaw in December of 1970 to conclude treaties normalizing relations. In Warsaw he knelt at a memorial to the Jewish victims of Nazi barbarity in a gesture of atonement noted around the world.
        But the successes of Ostpolitik were viewed as losses by a large number of German voters who supported the conservative Christian Union parties. By 1972 Mr. Brandt's majority in the Bundestag was in doubt.
        The Bundestag remained paralyzed and in the autumn, Mr. Brandt deliberately lost a confidence vote, precipitating new elections. He campaigned on Ostpolitik and won 46 percent of the ballots -- the best showing ever by a Social Democrat.
        But some complacency settled in, and Mr. Brandt failed to deal decisively with some critical situations: inflation, wage demands, the energy crisis after the 1973 Middle East War.
        In May 1974, 12 days after Gunter Guillaume, the East German spy, was arrested, Mr. Brandt resigned in black despair, apparently because he felt his image as a conciliator had been tarnished. He was replaced by Helmut Schmidt, his former party deputy. Career Resumed As Party Leader
        Mr. Brandt remained chairman of the Social Democrats and, after six months of reflection, became active again in politics.
        He was overwhelmingly re-elected party chairman in November 1975, but he soon became little more than a figurehead when the party dissolved into factions. He held the post until 1987.
        In 1976 he was also elected chairman of the Socialist International, the Social Democrats' umbrella organization, a post he resigned on Sept. 14, 1992, while under treatment in Bonn for cancer.
        In 1979, he and other former heads of government formed a group, the Brandt Commission, to examine North-South relations and call for more equitable distribution of wealth.
        As his public career faded, Mr. Brandt divorced his second wife, marrying his secretary, Brigitte Seebacher, in 1983. She survives, as do his daughter, three sons and two granddaughters.
        Mr. Guillaume was traded in 1981 to East Germany for imprisoned West German spies. Four years later, the former Chancellor journeyed to East Berlin, where he was received by the Communist leader, Erich Honecker.
        After the Berlin wall fell in November 1989, Mr. Brandt was welcomed by huge crowds of East Germans who saw in him a West German leader who had never stopped caring for their destiny during all their years of bondage.
      