
        The Rev. James D. Watson, an leader in housing, civil rights and peace causes as a pastor and New York regional head of the United Presbyterian Church, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of complications from Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Watson called himself a political and social radical and a Christian humanist "more concerned about man than about God." "I see the ministry in terms of social action," he said in 1970.
        He served as the moderator of the Presbyterian Synod of New York State in 1971, interim executive head of the New York City Presbytery in 1972 and 73 and its moderator and policy chairman in 1970. He worked to shift the denomination from a centralized bureaucracy to more community control and local programs at its 116 churches in the city.
        Mr. Watson participated in civil rights demonstrations in Washington and in the South. He was a leader of a Queens chapter of the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy. He ran unsuccessfully as an anti-Vietnam War candidate for Congress in a 1967 Queens Democratic primary and as an Eugene McCarthy delegate in 1968. Social-Service Agencies
        He founded the Laurelton-Springfield Day Care Center in Queens and was president of the Presbyterian Housing Development Fund Corporation of Queens and the tenants' association at the Presbyterian-affiliated James Lenox House in Manhattan. He also served on the boards of the Presbytery Senior Services, Alberta L. Alston House in Queens, Fort Schuyler House in the Bronx and United Presbyterian Home in Syosset, L.I.
        Mr. Watson was born in Kearny, N.J. During World War II, he served three years in the Navy in the Pacific.
        After graduating from Shelton College in 1951, he earned a bachelor of divinity degree at Faith Theological Seminary in 1954, a master of divinity at Bloomfield Theological Seminary in 1959 and a master's in American history at New York University in 1960.
        He served as the pastor of the United Presbyterian Church of Flanders, N.J., from 1958 to 1962 and of the First Presbyterian Church of Springfield Gardens in Queens from 1962 to 1976, then was the acting minister of the Jan Hus Church in Manhattan for several years. Ten years ago he retired on disability but continued as a volunteer.
        Mr. Watson's wife of 25 years, the former Alice Arnold, died in 1983.
        He is survived by three daughters, Gail Watson of Denver and Carol and Susan Watson, both of Queens; three brothers, Daniel, John and William, all of Kearny, and three sisters, Catherine McWilliam of Greenbrook, N.J., Ellen Sarvis of Akron, Ohio, and Isabel Jocz of Freehold, N.J.
      