
        Dr. Daniel Horn, whose research on the negative effects of cigarette smoking helped to influence government policy and public attitudes, died on Wednesday at the Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. He was 76 years old and lived in Frenchtown, N.J.
        Dr. Horn died of a heart attack, said a daughter, Marguerite Horn Palmer, of Rio Rancho, N.M.
        For three decades, Dr. Horn, a vigorous anti-smoking advocate, played a leading role in marshaling evidence against smoking. As assistant director of statistical research at the American Cancer Society, Dr. Horn and Dr. E. Cuyler Hammond, the division's director, produced several studies in the 1950's showing a substantial relationship between cigarette smoking and lung cancer.
        Neither Dr. Horn nor Dr. Hammond were medical doctors. Dr. Hammond's doctorate was in biology, zoology and hygiene; Dr. Horn's, in psychology. But the statistical evidence they and others gathered helped to turn public opinion and governmental policy more aggressively against smoking. Prize-Winning Dog Breeder
        Later, as a Federal official with the United States Public Health Service and the Centers for Disease Control, Dr. Horn combined continuing studies on smoking's impact on health with research showing the most effective ways for people to stop smoking.
        Dr. Horn, a native of Rochester, graduated from Northeastern University in 1938 and earned his master's and doctorate from Harvard in 1942 and 1943. He taught at Northeastern and at Harvard before enlisting in the Naval Reserve from 1944 to 1946. During his tenure with the American Cancer Society from 1947 to 1957, Dr. Horn also lectured in psychology and public health at Princeton University and Yale University.
        Dr. Horn retired from the Centers for Disease Control in 1978. In 1979 he received the Edward W. Browning Achievement Award for Outstanding Contribution to Human Welfare and Prevention of Disease.
        Dr. Horn was also a prize-winning breeder and exhibitor of Chesapeake Bay retrievers for 46 years and a breed and obedience judge approved by the American Kennel Club. He was a member of the American Chesapeake Club, the Waterland Retriever Club, the Lenape Tracking Club and the Bayshore Companion Dog Club.
        In addition to his daughter, Marguerite, Dr. Horn is survived by his wife, Janet Patterson; two sons, Nathaniel B. of Woodridge, Ill., and Roger L. of Upper Black Eddy, Pa.; another daughter, Elizabeth Humer, of Rumson, N.J.,; a brother, Norman, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., a sister, Bertha Soslow, of Rochester, and eight grandchildren.
      