
        Frank B. Mercurio, a longtime enforcer of labor laws, died on Saturday at St. Mary's Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80 years old.
        The cause of his death was not immediately available.
        Mr. Mercurio, a foe of the sweatshops in New York and New Jersey, was a native of Utica, N.Y. He moved to Florida after his retirement about 10 years ago.
        Mr. Mercurio attended Northwestern University, majoring in political science and administration, and graduated from the chemical-warfare school at Amherst University. During World War II, he worked in the National Mobilization Strike Force of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        After the war, Mr. Mercurio was for 10 years an assistant Industrial Commissioner in the New York State Department of Labor. There he administered the enforcement of laws dealing with minimum wages, unemployment insurance, child labor and health and safety standards.
        In 1955 he began a nearly 30-year career with the United States Department of Labor when he was named a deputy director of its Region II in Manhattan, covering New York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Three years later, he became the director of the region's Wage and Hour and Public Contracts Divisions. His jurisdiction included more than five million working people in more than 200,000 companies.
        His Chinatown Strike Force fought rampant abuse of workers in the garment industry. "The problem of the undocumented alien is one of the greatest magnitude," he said in 1979 as the regional administrator of Employee Standards. "There exist in the Greater New York area thousands of illegal aliens who are being exploited by unscrupulous employers, especially in the service industries."
        Mr. Mercurio was a Special Assistant in the Office of the Secretary of Labor and a consultant to private industry on white-collar crime when he retired a few years later.
        Mr. Mercurio is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Mabel Gillespie, and several nieces and nephews.
      