
        Ben Maddow, a screenwriter, novelist and photography critic, died on Friday at the Queen of Angels/Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 83 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        He died of congestive heart failure after a long illness, said his wife, Freda Flier.
        Mr. Maddow's best-known work was his collaboration with John Huston on the screenplay for "The Asphalt Jungle" (1950), an adaptation of a novel by W. R. Burnett. A chillingly realistic dramatization of a robbery carried out by a gang of professional criminals, including a jewel thief, a safecracker and a hoodlum, the film troubled many critics because it combined heart-in-mouth dramatic force with an unprecedented degree of neutrality toward the lawbreakers.
        Reviewing "The Asphalt Jungle" for The New York Times, Bosley Crowther called it "an electrifying picture of the whole vicious circle of crime," but he expressed a fear that the audience might derive too much pleasure from "hobnobbing with a bunch of crooks" and might "actually sympathize with their personal griefs." A Published Poet
        Mr. Maddow was born in Passaic, N.J. As a student at Columbia University, he had a number of poems published and won the Harriet Monroe Memorial Prize for a work that appeared in Poetry magazine. After graduating, he worked for three years as an orderly and technician at Bellevue Hospital in New York City and for another three years as an investigator for the New York City Bureau of Welfare.
        These experiences led him to make several documentary films, including "The Stairs," which dealt with the emotional problems of the elderly, for the South Carolina Department of Health.
        In World War II, Mr. Maddow served as a scenarist for the First Motion Picture Unit of the Army Air Force.
        After his discharge, he moved to Hollywood. In addition to "The Asphalt Jungle," he wrote screenplays for "Intruder in the Dust," "The Savage Eye" and "The Member of the Wedding."
        The prolific Mr. Maddow wrote a novel, "44 Gravel Street," about a man's search for his wife, in 1952; a number of short stories, including "You, Johann Sebastian Bach," which won the O. Henry Prize in 1959; a biography of the photographer Edward Weston; the book "Faces: A Narrative History of the Portrait in Photography," and many articles on photography and photographers.
        In addition to his wife, a former dancer, Mr. Maddow is survived by two daughters, Ellen Zimet of Manhattan and Emily Dawson of Colorado Springs, Colo., and six grandchildren.
      