
        Froelich G. Rainey, an archeologist, museum director and creator of an award-winning television program, died on Sunday at a hospital in Cornwall, England. He was 85 years old and lived in Cornwall.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        As a young field researcher, Dr. Rainey found major artifacts supporting the theory that early humans migrated across the Bering Strait to America. He was among the first to find bone shafts, used as lances to kill animals hunted for food.
        He helped to develop new technology, including aerial photography and magnetic detectors to find artifacts, and radiocarbon and heat analyses to date them.
        From 1947 to 1976 Dr. Rainey headed the Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology at the University of Pennsylvania. He revived the museum from its Depression era and World War II doldrums, expanding its budget and collections. Under his leadership, the museum sponsored 230 expeditions in six continents, including the ancient Greek community of Sybaris; Ban Chiang, Thailand, and its Bronze Age discoveries, and Tikal, Guatemala, with its Mayan treasures. Award-Winning TV Program
        Adapting the museum world to modern communications to reach larger audiences, Dr. Rainey developed Expedition magazine and a Peabody Award-winning television program, "What in the World." In the program he moderated a panel of experts trying to identity artifacts, while viewers were given clues to the answer.
        Dr. Rainey was a past president of the American Association of Museums and the International Congress of Anthropology.
        He was born in Black River Falls, Wis., and grew up on a cattle ranch in Montana. In his youth he worked his way around the world doing odd jobs. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago, and doctorates in English from the American School in France and in anthropology from Yale University.
        In World War II, Dr. Rainey served on the Board of Economic Warfare, ran a mission in Ecuador to highjack bark gathered for the Germans for use as quinine and worked for the State Department.
        His marriage to the former Penelope Lewis ended in divorce.
        Surviving are his wife of 17 years, Marina; a daughter, Penelope Rainey of Philadelphia; a sister, Viva Rainey of California, and two grandchildren.
      