
        Howard A. Jones, a former New York State judge who helped Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller shape the anti-drug law of 1973, died on Sunday at his home in New Rochelle. He was 69 years old.
        He died in his sleep of a heart ailment, his family reported.
        Mr. Jones was the chairman of New York State's addiction-control commission when he worked with Mr. Rockefeller.
        Mr. Jones was born in New York City and received his early education in Jamaica, West Indies. Returning to New York, he attended night classes, graduating from City College and earning his law degree at St. John's University. He started his career as a clerk in the Office of District Attorney Frank S. Hogan in Manhattan. Mr. Hogan appointed him an assistant district attorney and placed him in charge of narcotics prosecutions.
        An active Republican, he was recruited by Mr. Rockefeller in 1960 as assistant counsel to represent the Governor in court proceedings.
        The following year, Mr. Rockefeller appointed him to a Temporary Commission of Penal Law and Criminal Procedure for the first major overhaul of those state codes in 80 years. The panel, in 1965, recommended the abolition of the death penalty on a vote of 8 to 4, with Mr. Jones presenting the minority position that abolition could translate into more crime and that more study was needed. There is no longer a death penalty in New York State; the last execution was carried out in August 1963.
        In May 1970, Mr. Jones was sworn in as a member of the State Narcotic Addiction Control Commission, of which he became chairman the following year.
        He strongly objected to Mayor John V. Lindsay's expansion of the methadone program. Mr. Jones favored only "cautious expansion" and was against substituting a legal addictive synthetic for illegal heroin.
        The new law authorized 68 new Court of Claims judges to handle an expected spate of drug cases flooding the courts. Mr. Jones was among the first 16 chosen by Mr. Rockefeller in 1973.
        From 1975 to 1979, he served as an acting justice of State Supreme Court, sitting in White Plains, the Bronx and Queens. New to the bench, he passed the first death sentence under a 1974 law that mandated capital punishment for the murder of a police officer or prison guard. The law also required review at the appeals level, and the prisoner, who killed a Yonkers police officer during a store holdup, was spared.
        "I have nothing against capital punishment as such," the Justice said, "but what bothers me is that a man who murders a judge doesn't get the death penalty."
        He left the bench in 1979 and opened a practice in New Rochelle, handling mostly real-estate and some criminal cases. He remained at work until the day of his death.
        Mr. Jones is survived by his wife, Olivia; a son, Howard Jr., of New Rochelle; a daughter, Karyn J. Reed of Freeport, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      