
        Jacob H. Horwitz, a fashion innovator who helped to create "junior miss" clothing and a philanthropist who was a founder of Long Island Jewish Medical Center, died on Sunday at his home in Lawrence, L.I. He was 100 years old.
        He died of congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Horwitz, whose fashion career spanned 50 years, became known as a stylist and manufacturer in the 1930's and 40's. His company, Horwitz & Duberman, developed lines of dresses and other apparel designed for the then neglected market of teen-age girls and young women.
        He developed a popular succession of skirts, blouses and accessories known as Judy and Jill Fashions. He won the Coty Award in 1946 and the American Fashion Critics' Award in 1947. Served on Hospital Board
        Mr. Horwitz, who was known as Jack, was a fund-raiser and leader in charitable causes. In 1949, he and eight others founded the hospital, in New Hyde Park, L.I. He was chairman for the ground-breaking ceremony and served on the board for more than 40 years.
        He also helped found the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and served as a supporter and officer of the the Fashion Institute of Technology, the American Legion, the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, the Five Towns Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Association, Temple Israel of Lawrence and the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, which helped his family come to the United States from England and Scotland when he was a child.
        He was accepted as an engineering student at Yale University, but he and a friend decided to set up a Manhattan grocery business.
        He joined the National Guard and was called up for service when United States cavalry troops under Gen. John J. Pershing pursued Pancho Villa along the Mexican border. Later Mr. Horwitz served as a sergeant in World War I in France.
        He formed Horwitz & Duberman in 1925.
        Mr. Horwitz's wife of 59 years, the former Rose Greenberger, died in 1986.
        He is survived by three daughters, Jane Cohen of Scarborough, N.Y., Susan Green of Wayland, Mass., and Nancy Stone of Brockton, Mass.; a brother, Raymond, of Lawrence, and 11 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren.
      