
        Allen Friedman, a former union official who was the co-author of a book on mob influence after being prosecuted in 1983 in a case involving the teamsters president Jackie Presser, died on Tuesday in Cleveland. He was 71 years old.
        He died of heart failure at the Cleveland Clinic Hospital, his family said.
        From childhood, Mr. Friedman's life was entwined with Mr. Presser's. Mr. Friedman's sister was Mr. Presser's mother. Mr. Friedman, who was only several years older than Mr. Presser, was reared by his sister and Mr. Presser's father after his own parents died.  Both men rose in Cleveland's teamsters' unions, and Mr. Presser eventually became the head of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. They were also linked in their mutual downfall.
        In 1983, Mr. Friedman was convicted of embezzling $165,000 from Local 507 by collecting pay as a no-show employee. The Government charged that Mr. Presser had arranged for Mr. Friedman to receive $1,000 a week for merging Local 752, which Mr. Friedman headed, with Mr. Presser's Local 507. Mr. Friedman denied wrongdoing. He said he was unable to work full-time after a heart attack.
        His conviction was vacated by a Federal judge in 1985, after defense lawyers sought a new trial. They argued that the Justice Department had concealed Mr. Presser's role as an informer for the Federal Bureau of Investigation and that it had authorized his actions. The Government dropped the case. Mr. Friedman, who had served 11 months in prison, was freed.
        Mr. Friedman and Ted Schwarz wrote "Power and Greed" (Franklin Watts, 1989) on the mob and the teamsters. The book, whose first page asserted, "I never met an honest man," described Mr. Friedman as starting as an enforcer for a Cleveland local. In the book, he admitted his involvement in beatings, arson, theft and other crimes. A New York Times review called the book "a veritable smorgasbord of juicy, if unsubstantiated, tidbits."
        Mr. Friedman was divorced.
        Surviving are four daughters, Tami Kowit of Cleveland, Toni Friedman of Denver, Michalene Martin of Denver and Jacqueline Friedman of Columbus, Ohio.
      