
        Cleveland L. Dennard, a management officer of the Martin Luther King Center for Nonviolent Social Change in Atlanta and a former college president, died on Saturday in Atlanta. He was 63 years old and lived in Atlanta.
        Dr. Dennard died of pancreatic cancer at Southwest Hospital and Medical Center, said Denise McFall, a spokeswoman for the King Center.
        Dr. Dennard also headed a management consulting firm in Atlanta that carried his name. He had been with the King Center since 1984. Before that he was president of Atlanta University.
        The university, which offered only graduate programs, and Atlanta's Clark College, an undergraduate institution, merged in 1988 to become Clark Atlanta University.
        Before moving to Atlanta, Dr. Dennard served as a deputy commissioner of training for New York City's Human Resources Administration from 1963 to 1968.
        He then became the founding president of the Washington Technical Institute, a predecessor to the University of the District of Columbia. He was apppointed to the post by President Lyndon B. Johnson, at a time when the city's government functions were largely controlled by the White House and Congress. Dr. Dennard served there from 1968 to 1977, a time in which its enrollment increased from 500 to nearly 5,000 students.
        Dr. Dennard was born in Sebring, Fla. He earned a bachelor's degree at Florida A & M University, a master's in industrial education at Colorado State University and a doctorate in educational administration at the University of Tennessee.
        He was a longtime friend of both the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Dr. King's wife, Coretta Scott King.
        During his career, Dr. Dennard was a member of the Southern Leadership Foundation, the U.S. Institute for Housing Management and the Council of Foreign Relations. He was also a trustee of the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Foundation and three historically black colleges, Spelman, Morehouse and Knoxville.
        He is survived by his wife of 44 years, the former Belle Brooks; four daughters, Judy D. Banks of Washington, Beth D. Burke of Silver Spring, Md., and Sadie Jo and Ann, both of Atlanta; two sisters, Mae Frances Lee of Cookesville, Md., and Suzye D. Johnson of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; three brothers, Bishop Samuel Dennard of Los Angeles, Charles, of Avon Park, Fla., and Paul, of Sebring; and two grandchildren.
      