
        Oliver Shewell Franks, a British diplomat and academic who played a crucial role in putting the Marshall Plan for European recovery into effect after World War II, died on Thursday at his home in Oxford, England. He was 87 years old.
        The cause of death was not disclosed.
        In his varied career, Lord Franks was a leader in government, diplomacy, education and business. He served as a top procurement official in Britain's World War II effort, as Ambassador to the United States in the formative years of the cold war and as chairman of Lloyds Bank P.L.C., one of Britain's largest banks.
        He was also a professor of philosophy, provost of Queen's College and head of Worcester College, both at Oxford. And he directed a 1983 commission that held an inquiry into the events leading up to Britain's war with Argentina over the Falkland Islands.
        He first came to national prominence while in his 30's, when he left academia to work as a wartime administrator. Impressing officials with his analytical and managerial talents, he steadily advanced in rank until he was promoted to the critical post of Permanent Secretary of the combined Ministries of Supply and Aircraft Production. Mastery of Foreign Policy
        He was known for his intellectual detachment and purposefulness. When a German bomb exploded near a building on the Thames that housed his office and sleeping quarters, the 6 feet4 inch Mr. Franks dashed into the street wearing his pajamas -- and carrying his briefcase.
        He gained an international reputation for his mastery of foreign-policy issues and economics during Western Europe's postwar recovery. In 1947 he headed Britain's delegation to the Organization for European Economic Cooperation, a 16-nation conference in Paris that drafted recommendations for parceling out American aid under the Marshall Plan.
        Elected chairman of the organization's Executive and the Economic Coordinating Committees, he was credited with resolving the conflicting needs and interests of the 16 European countries.
        In 1948 Prime Minister Clement Attlee appointed him Ambassador to the United States. At the age of 43, he was the second-youngest ever to hold that post, and he played a significant role in cementing the relationship between the two nations as the cold war began. Falkland War Post
        In a farewell address in 1952, he hailed British-American unity on Korea and the Berlin blockade. He said the Berlin airlift "was the first time perhaps that we both fully recognized the new peril that faced us and straightaway took joint and effective steps to cope with it."
        Back in England, he was chairman of Lloyds Bank from 1954 to 1962. He drew attention in 1959 for shifting the focus of his analysis of world affairs from the East-West conflict to the emerging issues between the industrialized North and the underdeveloped South.
        Returning to academia, Lord Franks headed Worcester College from 1962 to 1976. Before the war, he had been provost at Queen's College, a professor at the University of Glasgow and a visiting professor at the University of Chicago.
        Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher named him in 1982 to head an inquiry into the Falklands war, his last high-level appointment. His report exonerated her administration of blame for failing to anticipate the Argentine invasion of the islands. Pondering a Question
        He was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1942, knighted in 1945 and given a life peerage in 1962.
        For a time he was considered a possible candidate for Prime Minister. But for all his erudition, Lord Franks was uncomfortable with political glad-handing and social small talk. Asked at a dinner party to name his favorite film star, he thought for some time while puffing on his pipe and finally said he would have to ponder more deeply before answering.
        He was born on Feb. 16, 1905, and grew up in Bristol. He graduated from Queen's College, where he studied classics, ancient history and philosophy.
        His wife of 56 years, the former Barbara Tanner, died in 1987. They had two daughters, Caroline and Alison.
      