
        Dr. Ward H. Dennis, Columbia University's senior dean and the head of its School of General Studies, died on Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 54 years old and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y.
        He died of complications from a brain tumor, his family said.
        Dr. Dennis, who started working at Columbia as a lecturer in 1961, was the general studies dean for the last 15 years. He was the longest serving of the university's current deans. His school has nearly 3,000 students.
        Under his administration, the school created programs for premedical students, for economically and educationally disadvantaged students, and for junior faculty development, as well as a program in computer technology for nondegree students and a master's degree in liberal studies.
        Dr. Dennis was named associate dean of general studies in 1969, and in 1977 became permanent dean, at the age of 38.
        He was a former director of Columbia's Institute for Latin American and Iberian Studies, chairman of its Foreign Languages and Literatures Committee and Committee on University Services, and acting vice president of arts and sciences in 1989.
        An expert on Spanish and Portugese literature, Dr. Dennis wrote a book, articles and reviews on the subject and was on the editorial board of Revista Hispanic Moderna, a journal.
        Born in Boston, he grew up there and in Newport, R.I., and Madrid. His father was a business executive stationed for a time in Spain.
        After graduating from Middlebury College in 1960, Dr. Dennis earned a master's degree in Spanish literature in 1961 and a doctorate in 1965, both at Columbia.
        From 1965-67 he served in the Army as a training officer in language. In 1974, under a Fulbright-Hays grant, he was a consultant to the Catholic Universities in Quito and Guayaquil, Ecuador.
        Dr. Dennis's first marriage ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sandra Howe; his mother, Amarie Whitters Dennis of White Plains; two sons, Ward of Manhattan and John of Niantic, Conn., and a daughter, Heather Dennis of Madison, N.J.
      