
        Carl T. Mitnick, a leading New Jersey home builder, housing industry official and philanthropist, died on Thursday at the Atlantic City Medical Center in Atlantic City. He was 87 years old and lived in Ventnor, N.J.
        The cause of death was undetermined, but he had had heart disease, his family said.
        Mr. Mitnick, who dropped out of high school at the age of 13 to join his brother-in-law in the construction business, developed and built more than 15,000 homes, mostly in southern New Jersey.
        In the 1950's, he was president of the National Association of Home Builders and chairman of its National Housing Center in Washington, and served as president of the New Jersey Home Builders Association.
        Mr. Mitnick, a proponent of housing programs, served in industry groups and advised government agencies. He worked on a committee for housing of the elderly, traveled with a delegation of American builders in 1956 to study construction and housing in the Soviet Union, and was chairman of a committee advising the State Department on housing problems stemming from an earthquake in South America in 1960.
        His major developments were in North Cape May, Tranquility Park in Lower Township, Somers Point, Colwick near Maple Shade, Collingswood and Ventnor. Most of his developments were for single-family homes, but some were apartments. He also built the Ventnor Plaza shopping Center.
        He managed several related companies, including Collignswood Corporation, Lawrence Homes, Mithco and Mitnick Homes. He remained active in his business until recent weeks.
        He was a former chairman of the United Jewish Appeal of Camden County and a former officer of the Federation of Jewish Agencies of Atlantic City. He donated land and money to various causes, including the Carl and Margaret Mitnick Dialysis Center in Somers Point.
        Mr. Mitnick was born in Philadelphia. He was a year away from graduation when he left high school, although he later studied at the Wharton School.
        His wife of 60 years, the former Margaret Greenstein, died in 1990.
        He is survived by a son, Lawrence, and a daughter, Barbara Cohen, both of Wynnewood, Pa.; seven grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
      