
        Werner Torkanowsky, a conductor, composer and violinist, died on Tuesday at Mount Desert Hospital in Bar Harbor, Me. He was 66 years old and lived in Hancock Point, Me.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Since his conducting debut in 1954 when, as concertmaster for the Ballets Espagnoles, he stepped in for the ailing conductor, Mr. Torkanowsky has led nearly every major American orchestra, including the Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles and Detroit Symphonies, and many European ensembles.
        Mr. Torkanowsky was born in Germany in 1926, and his parents immigrated to Palestine when he was 6 years old. He received his earliest musical training from his mother, who was a concert pianist. In 1948, he moved to New York to study the violin with the well-known pedagogue Raphael Bronstein, and in the 1950's he studied conducting with Pierre Monteux. As winner of the Naumburg Award in 1961, Mr. Torkanowsky made his first guest appearance with the New York Philharmonic, the orchestra with which he also made his first recording.
        As an opera conductor, he was invited in 1961 by Gian Carlo Menotti, the founder of the Festival of Two Worlds in Spoleto, Italy, to open the season with Samuel Barber's "Vanessa." Among the opera companies he conducted are the New York City, Santa Fe and San Diego Operas. He was also the conductor for several ballet companies, including Jerome Robbins's Ballets U.S.A.
        He was the music director and chief conductor of the New Orleans Philharmonic for 14 years, and since 1981 he held that title at the Bangor Symphony Orchestra in Maine. Throughout his career, he continued his work as a composer and a violinist, appearing as a soloist and in chamber ensembles.
        He is survived by his wife, Ragna Bruno; a son, David, of Hancock; two stepchildren and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 24, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary headline on Wednesday about a conductor, composer and violinist rendered his name incorrectly. He was Werner Torkanowsky.
      