
        John E. Alcorn, a noted illustrator and designer whose versatile work ranged from a United States postage stamp to book jackets for the Rizzoli publishing company and movie titles for Fellini, died on Monday at the Laurence and Memorial Hospital in New London, Conn. He was 56 years old and lived in Lyme, Conn.
        He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Alcorn won numerous awards for his work and was featured in numerous art exhibits. He used varied styles and media, including realistic black and white line drawings, colored abstracts and water colors.
        His illustrations appeared in a wide range of books, including cookbooks, a volume of Ogden Nash verses.
        Born in Corona, Queens, Mr. Alcorn grew up in Great Neck, L.I. After graduating from the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art in Manhattan in 1955, he worked briefly for Esquire magazine, then several years for Push Pin Studios and CBS. From 1961 to 1971, he did freelance work from the studio at his home in Ossining, N.Y.
        Moving to Florence, Italy, from 1971 to 1977, he worked for Rizzoli on book typography, bindings, advertising, promotion and posters. While there, he also help redesign two daily Italian newspapers and also designed the title credits for "Amarcord" and other films by the director Federico Fellini.
        Returning to the U.S. in 1977, he lived and worked in Cold Spring, N.Y., until 1983, when he moved to Lyme. He was also selected by Dartmouth College as its first artist in residence, in 1981. Part of Stamp Series
        The United States Postal Service commissioned him to do a stamp for its Love series, and in 1987 he produced an multi-colored abstract flower in the shape of a heart.
        Among the organizations citing his work for awards were the New York Art Directors Club, the American Institute of Graphic Arts, the Type Directors Club, the Society of Illustrators, the Bologna Children's Book Fair and Cooper Union.
        He had one-man shows in Manhattan, Paris, Milan and at Dartmouth, and his work was part of Push Pin retrospective group exhibit that toured internationally, including at the Louvre.
        He is survived by his parents, Herbert and Mabel of Essex, Conn.; his wife, the former Phyllis Crescenzi; three sons, John of Palermo, Italy, Stephen of Cambridge, N.Y., and Kenneth of Greenwich, Conn.; four grandchildlren, and two brothers, Richard of Manhattan and Robert of Wading River, L.I.
      