
        John Wilson, a founding member of the Joffrey Ballet and a composer and teacher, died on Monday in the Veterans Administration Hospital in Manhattan. He was 64 years old.
        He died of AIDS, said his sister, Diane Wilson Lloyd.
        Mr. Wilson performed, created and taught dance and music. He directed theater and opera productions. He was also a scholar of the Dada Surrealist movement, doing research into Dada and its influences on current theater. In 1990 and 1991 he presented lecture demonstrations on Dada theater throughout the United States. He also presented Dadaist performances at Vassar College and in New York City at Dixon Place and the Knitting Factory, as well as at theaters in France and Germany.
        He was born in Los Angeles and received a degree in music and languages from Pomona College in Claremont, Calif. He studied dance in New York with Katherine Dunham and at the Juilliard School and trained in eurythmics at the Dalcroze Institute in Geneva.
        Mr. Wilson danced as a solo performer in New York City and also appeared with his own dance group and the companies of Joyce Trisler, Pearl Lang, Anna Sokolow and Valerie Bettis, as well as the Juilliard Dance Theater under the direction of Doris Humphrey, and, in the early 1970's, Kei Takei's Moving Earth company.
        He performed with the Joffrey Ballet from its first tour, in 1956, until 1964, when he joined the Harkness Ballet with his wife, Brunilda Ruiz, from whom he was later divorced. He returned to the Joffrey in 1986 to perform the role of the Widow Simone in "La Fille Mal Gardee," by Sir Frederick Ashton. Mr. Wilson also performed as an actor with Jean Erdman's Theater of the Open Eye.
        He choreographed pieces for the Joffrey, the Rebecca Kelly Dance Company and for drama, dance and opera productions presented by small theater groups and universities around the country, including SoHo Rep, La Mama and the South Street Theater in New York City and the Theater Group in Los Angeles.
        He taught at the School of Theater at Boston University, the Opera and Musical Theater program at New York University and at the Juilliard School, the Lincoln Center Institute, the American Dance Festival, the Laban Center of London University, the Hong Kong Academy of Performing Arts and many other schools in the United States, Europe and the Far East.
        In addition to his sister, of San Francisco, Mr. Wilson is survived by a daughter, Mhari Houston of Denver.
      