
        Joseph L. Block, the chief executive of the Inland Steel Company in the 1950's and 60's and a prominent Chicago civic leader for more than five decades, died early today at the Northwestern University Hospital here. He was 90 years old.
        His family said he died from congestive heart failure, according to a company spokesman.
        Mr. Block was the grandson of Joseph Block, one of the founders of Inland, and the son of Leopold E. Block, who was chairman of the company from 1919 to 1940. Mr. Block's involvement with the company began in 1922, when he joined it as a trainee, and lasted until last April, when he attended his last meeting as a nonvoting honorary director.
        Mr. Block rose through Inland's marketing ranks in the years before World War II, establishing a reputation as an executive who emphasized social responsibility as well as profits.
        He moved to Washington in 1941, joining the ranks of executives who served in the war effort for salaries of $1 a year. He eventually became deputy director of the steel division of the War Production Board in 1944. During his tenure the nation's production of steel plate for ships and tanks increased from 700,000 tons a month to 1.3 million tons.
        After the war Mr. Block resumed his rapid rise in the company, now a division of Inland Steel Industries Inc., becoming vice chairman in 1949, head of the finance committee in 1952, president in 1953 and chief executive in 1956. He became chairman in 1959.
        Mr. Block, who was once described in a Fortune magazine article as "pint-sized and folksy," often walked the two miles to work from his apartment on the Gold Coast of Chicago, and wrote all of his own speeches. He was a soft-spoken pipe smoker, but could frighten subordinates.
        "He was a demon for complete accuracy in presentations, even if it meant embarrassing someone," said Frederick Jaicks, a protege who led the company in the 1970's and early 80's.
        Mr. Block was chosen by the steel industry as its main spokesman during difficult labor negotiations in 1959. But Inland, under Mr. Block, was regarded as something of a maverick in the steel industry. This was especially true in April 1962, when it was the first company to rescind a price increase led by United States Steel after President John F. Kennedy had denounced the increase as "wholly unjustified and irresponsible."
        Under Mr. Block's leadership Inland invested in numerous new plants and services, including the industry's first computer-controlled hot strip mill. Resisted Flight to Suburbs
        Mr. Block often used his prominence to promote the fortunes of Chicago. In the mid-1950's, during the first wave of corporate movement to the suburbs, he commissioned the construction of the first major office building on the Loop in 24 years. The 19-story company headquarters later won architectural awards and designation as a city landmark.
        Joseph Leopold Block was born in Chicago on Oct. 6, 1902. He attended Cornell University, where he aspired to a career in journalism, but dropped out after two years to go to work in the family company. The job was his father's prerequisite for his approval to marry Lucille B. Eichengreen. The couple were married in 1924. Civic and Government Groups
        Mr. Block's civic career began with his appointment as director of the Jewish Federation in 1931, and eventually involved a wide range of educational, commercial and cultural organizations. He was president of the Community Fund, a forerunner to the local United Way, from 1957 to 1959.
        He also was a frequent participant in Federal and state committees, including membership of the President's Advisory Committee on Labor-Management Policy under Presidents Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon.
        Mr. Block's main hobby was collecting letters, books and other memorabilia of Abraham Lincoln, a hero from his boyhood days.
        Besides his wife, Mr. Block is survived by a daughter, Susan E. Rubnitz of Chicago; two sisters, Babette Serlin and Eleanor Saidenberg, both of New York City, and four grandchildren. His son, Joseph L. Block Jr., died in 1947.
      