
        Peter P. Smith 3d, who founded an organization to help New York City's homeless and helped to set up the city's Green Thumb urban gardens program, died yesterday. He was 57 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of complications from AIDS at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan, his family said.
        For the last decade, Mr. Smith operated the Partnership for the Homeless, of which he was the president.
        The partnership is a network of 14,000 volunteers and 400 shelters in New York City churches and synagogues that houses up to 1,500 homeless people a night. The organization has put more than 4,000 people into permanent housing. It also supports soup kitchens and pantries at 150 sites serving a million meals a year. Aide to Robert Kennedy
        Mr. Smith began his career as a lawyer for Shea & Gould in Manhattan, where he worked for 15 years.
        Active in the Democratic Party, he was a campaign aide in Senator Robert F. Kennedy's bid for the Presidency in 1968 and was with him in Los Angeles the night he was assassinated. He was a trustee of the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Foundation from 1970-79.
        Mr. Smith served as a deputy commissioner of the State Insurance Department from 1975-77. In 1978, Mayor Edward I. Koch appointed him General Services Commissioner.
        As commissioner, he helped to create Operation Green Thumb, which leases vacant city lots to community groups for gardens, and another program that leases apartments to tenants who are eventually given a chance to buy them for $250 apiece.
        His career crashed with an investigation into his financial affairs. After less than a year in office, he resigned and pleaded guilty to charges of having diverted $70,000 of Shea & Gould fees to his private account. He was imprisoned for four months and disbarred.
        "My whole life is really over," he said at his sentencing.
        Instead, Mr. Smith said, he drew strength from his Roman Catholic faith and involved himself in work for the poor. In 1981 he founded the Charles Drew Housing Center to provide aid to people in Ocean Hill-Brownsville in Brooklyn.
        The next year he started the Partnership for the Homeless, which was in response to a challenge from Mayor Koch to churches and synagogues to help government serve the needy.
        As AIDS patients began showing up among the homeless, sometimes as a result of losing jobs or being evicted because of their illness, Mr. Smith began to urge programs to help address their problems. He had the disease himself for several years.
        Mr. Smith was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Great Neck, L.I. He served in the Army. After graduating in 1956 from St. John's University, he earned a law degree in 1959 at Villanova, where he was the editor of the law review.
        He is survived by two sisters, Miriam Levings of Lindenhurst and Lynn Andrews of Westbury, L.I.
      