
        President Kaysone Phomvihan of Laos, the longtime guerrilla who led the Communist takeover of his nation in 1975 and ruled as its dictator ever since, died yesterday, the Laotian state radio announced. He was 71 years old.
        He died of an unspecified illness, said the broadcasts from Vientiane, the Laotian capital. The announcement was monitored in London and Bangkok.
        The reports gave no indication about a successor to Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan, who led both the Government and the Communist Party. He had been reported ill for some time.
        Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan's death could mean a period of uncertainty for Laos, one of the world's most isolated and secretive countries, especially considering his long domination of the country and his role as its nationalist hero. Gave Up Post of Premier
        Last year, under a new Constitution, he gave up the Prime Minister's post to assume the new post of President and remained the party's Secretary General. Gen. Khamtay Siphandon became the Prime Minister, but it is uncertain whether he will succeed Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan.
        A spokesman at the Laotian mission to the United Nations said it had just received word of the announcement and therefore had no immediate comment. The State Department said it would have no comment until Monday.
        The death of Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan -- a man with Vietnamese links by birth, marriage, language, education and politics -- also raises the issue of what direction Laos will move in its politics, economy and foreign relations.
        It shares a long eastern border with Communist Vietnam, which until 1987 stationed tens of thousands of troops in Laos. But Laos also has growing commerce along its equally lengthy western border with Thailand, which has thriving capitalism, a more open society and ties to the West.
        To the north sits China. Historically wary of its giant neighbor, Laos relied on the Soviet Union as its prime benefactor until it collapsed. Since then, Laos has been friendlier to China, the world's last major Communist nation. But Laos is also reaching out to Japan, Asia's democratic and capitalist power, and has even courted its old Western foes, France and the United States.
        The short, stocky Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan was one of the last of Indochina's old-guard revolutionary leaders from the generation of his Vietnamese comrade, the late Ho Chi Minh.
        Credited as both a brilliant political theoretician and a crafty military chief, Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan for years led the rebel struggle from secret mountain caves. Royal Dynasty Falls
        His Pathet Lao forces survived formidable opposition, including carpet bombing by the United States, before eventually toppling the 600-year-old Laotian dynasty in 1975.
        Under his leadership, however, Laos remained among the poorest and least developed of countries. The small landlocked nation and its four million people were largely isolated from the outside world. Once known as the the Land of a Million Elephants, Laos had few exports other than timber, hydroelectric power and illicit opium and heroin.
        But in the late 1980's, Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan's Government sharply altered the country's ideology. Its controlled economy finally resorted to privatized farming and commerce. Looking abroad, Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan actively sought foreign aid and trade.
        Reconciling with old foes, he traveled to France and Japan in 1989, his first trip to non-Communist counties other than Thailand. He also won an $8.7 million grant from the United States for roads, dams, communications, farming, health care and education.
        The changes were forced by a combination of continuing stagnation in the local economy, the collapse of international Marxism and the disintegration of the Soviet Union, the longtime backer of Laotian Communism.
        Laos's official slogan changed from "socialism" to "prosperity" and the hammer-and-sickle disappeared from the national emblem, replaced by a Buddhist shrine.
        Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan's explanation was that Laos was too undeveloped to begin socialism. One-Party Rule Persists
        Despite those changes, political authoritarianism remained. "Our Laotian party does not yet see any need for establishing other political parties," Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan said in 1990.
        Born in the southern panhandle province of Savanakhet, Mr. Phomvihan was the son of a Lao peasant mother and a father who was a Vietnamese civil servant for French colonialists.
        Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan ( pronounced guy-sohn POHM-vee-hahn) said he became radicalized at the age of 16. Explaining his credo of liberation from outside forces, he once said Laotians "prefer to live a miserable life as masters of their own country than to live a happy life enslaved by foreigners."
        While studying law in Hanoi, Vietnam, he was recruited by Ho Chi Minh.
        The young student demonstrated against both Japanese World War II occupation and French colonial domination of Southeast Asia. In later years, he jousted politically with China and fought against United States forces, accusing them of imperialist intentions. When France's control of Indochina ended at Dien Bien Phu in 1954, an internal and international struggle for control of Laos ensued. Always the Top Leader
        With Vietnamese training and support, he began organizing rebels in Laos in the 1940's. By the mid-1950's, when he was in his 30's, he became the Defense Minister and Commander in Chief of the Pathet Lao forces and chief of the Laotian Communist Party. As alliances and names of organizations constantly shifted, he held a variety of titles but was always considered the movement's top leader.
        Although he was fluent in Thai, Shan, French, English and Vietnamese as well as his native Lao, he was reticent, even secretive. He was not seen in public from 1958 until he took power in 1975. Even then, when a reporter asked if he had a wife, the evasive answer was "Do you?" After that introductory appearance, he disappeared from view again for more than a year.
        Mr. Kaysone Phomvihan was married, according to the International Who's Who, which identifies his wife as Thongvin, a Vietnamese. But little else is known about his private life. His secrecy and tight security were not merely personal idiosyncracies. He survived at least three assassination attempts.
      