
        Carleton Shugg, an innovator in the early development of submarines in the 1920's who three decades later helped build the first modern nuclear-powered and missile-bearing submarines, died on Jan. 23 at his home in Mystic, Conn. He was 92 years old.
        He died of natural causes after a flu-like illness, his family said.
        Mr. Shugg worked for the United States Navy, served as general manager of the Atomic Energy Commission and was president of General Dynamics' Electric Boat Division in Groton, Conn.
        Born in Mattapan, Mass., he grew up in Needham, Mass. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1921 and earned a master's degree in engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1924. Early Nuclear Work
        In the Navy he worked on salvage and rescue for disabled submarines. He helped invent the rescue diving bell used when the Squalus sank in 1939 and designed a 110-foot water-filled tower in Groton in which thousands of sailors practiced underwater escape. He pioneered in the use of welded submarine hulls, replacing leak-prone riveting, and invented a mechanism to rapidly close water-tight doors.
        Leaving the Navy in 1929 with the rank of lieutenant commander, he became the general manager of Sprague Electric Company in North Adams, Mass., which made radio condensers.  When World War II broke out, he resumed shipbuilding as general manager of the Cramp Shipyard in Philadelphia and the Todd Shipyards in Hoboken and Brooklyn.
        After a brief stint as general manager of the Hanford plutonium works in the State of Washington, in 1948 he became the Atomic Energy Commission's deputy general manager, acting director of reactor development and later acting general manager. He put Hyman G. Rickover, then a captain, in charge of a new Navy project on nuclear propulsion.
        Joining Electric Boat in 1951 as general manager and then president, Mr. Shugg worked with Mr. Rickover in developing the first nuclear submarine, the Nautilus, in 1955, and its more sophisticated successors.
        In the late 1950's he worked with Admiral William F. Raborn on the Polaris program to build the first missile submarines, the George Washington and Patrick Henry, which earned him the Navy's highest civilian award. He moved to General Dyanmics' corporate headquarters in Manhattan in 1962 and retired in 1965.
        He was divorced from the former Sybil Carpenter, who is dead. His second wife, the former Doris Drake, died in 1967.
        He is survived by two daughters, Caro Shugg Curran of Rhinebeck, N.Y., and Sylvia Shugg Villanueva of Williamstown, Mass.; a son, Wallace of Baltimore, Md.; a stepson, James Drake of Greenwich, Conn.; seven grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      