
        Sir John Summerson, Britain's pre-eminent architectural historian, died on Nov. 10 in London. He was 87 years old and lived in London.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, complicated by Parkinson's disease and emphysema, said his niece, Anne Ellis.
        A trained architect, a journalist and for nearly 40 years the curator of Sir John Soane's Museum in London, Sir John helped to raise British architectural history to professional standards. But many of his books, including "Georgian London" (1946) and "Heavenly Mansions" (1948), have become popular classics. Sir John enlivened his scholarship with dry wit, elegant prose, a sharply critical perspective and an unflagging desire to entertain. The Fabric of a City
        John Newenham Summerson was born in Durlington, England, on Nov. 25, 1904. His grandfather was a railroad worker who amassed the family fortune as a manufacturer of railroad equipment. Sir John was educated at Harrow and at University College in London, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1928. After receiving his architect's license the following year, he briefly worked in several architects' offices before deciding that he would rather teach and write about architecture than practice it.
        In 1934, Sir John joined the staff of The Architect and Building News, where he remained as assistant editor until 1941. During World War II, he photographed damaged and endangered buildings for the National Buildings Record, of which he was deputy director from 1941 to 1945. He also undertook research for "Georgian London," a pioneering work that went beyond the study of famous landmarks to analyze the fabric of an entire city. In his preface to that book, Sir John apologized for the delay in publication, explaining in a typically wry aside that "the subject matter has been bombed from time to time."
        In 1945, Sir John became curator of Sir John Soane's Museum, a fanciful neo-classical mansion in Lincoln's Inn Fields designed by Soane in 1812. Sir John personally conducted tours of the museum and later came to live there. The museum provided him with a base for the prodigious outpouring of writing and lecturing that followed. His other books include "Sir John Soane" (1952), "Architecture in Britain 1530-1830" (1953), "The Classical Language of Architecture" (1964), "Victorian Architecture" (1969), "The Architecture of the 18th Century" (1986), and a final collection of essays, "The Unromantic Castle," published by Thames & Hudson in 1990. Sir John retired as the Soane's curator in 1984.
        Much of the appeal of Sir John's writing lies in his eclectic choice of subjects and his undogmatic approach to them. He championed the Modern Movement and at the same time wrote appreciatively of the Victorian buildings many modernists professed to loathe. Sir John was also inclined to challenge the very movements he supported. His 1947 essay "The Mischievous Analogy" remains one of the most biting critiques of modern architecture ever published. Although he was a major force behind architectural preservation, he once startled members of the Irish Georgian Society by declaring that one street of endangered buildings was "just one damned house after another." Yet Sir John never created an impression of inconsistency. Rather, his writings richly suggest the complex ideas from which buildings and cities are shaped. Essays From Lectures
        Some of his finest writing was based on lectures, although when they were published he preferred to call them essays because "the word 'lecture,' in English usage, tends to convey a combination of physical malaise and mental anguish which I deplore." Sir John's career as a lecturer included stints at the Architectural Assocation, Oxford, Cambridge, Columbia University and the University of Virginia.
        Sir John was knighted in 1958, and in 1976 he was awarded the Gold Medal in Architecture from the Royal Institute of British Architects.
        He was married in 1938 to Elizabeth Hepworth, who died last year. In addition to his niece, Sir John is survived by three sons, Robert, Edward and Timothy.
      