
        Judge Irving R. Kaufman, who gained national attention in 1951 as the judge who sentenced Julius and Ethel Rosenberg to the electric chair and who wrote landmark decisions in First Amendment, antitrust and civil rights cases for more than 30 years on the Federal bench, died on Saturday night in the Mount Sinai Medical Center.
        He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Judge Kaufman died of pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        Irving Kaufman was appointed to the Federal bench by President Harry S. Truman in 1949 and to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit by President John F. Kennedy in 1961. He was chief judge of the circuit court in Manhattan for seven years. He formally retired from his judicial seat in 1987 but was designated a senior judge and remained active on the court until his recent illness.
        It was Judge Kaufman's hope that he would be remembered for his role not in the Rosenberg case, the espionage trial of the century, but as the judge whose order was the first to desegregate a public school in the North; who was instrumental in streamlining court procedures, who rendered innovative decisions in antitrust law and, most of all, whose rulings expanded the freedom of the press.
        "I'm sure the decision plagued him to his last days," Prof. Yale Kamisar of the University of Michigan Law School said of the Rosenberg case, adding that Judge Kaufman was "someone whose desire for recognition was not easily fulfilled."
        "He continued to write on public issues for a very long time and he certainly worked hard on developing an image of a thoughtful, liberal, sensitive, concerned person on public issues," Professor Kamisar said.
        Attorney General William P. Barr said: "Judge Kaufman was a courageous servant of justice and a friend of law enforcement. His intellect and leadership will be greatly missed." The Secrets Of the Atomic Bomb
        Despite his many well-crafted opinions, it was with the Rosenberg case that Judge Kaufman's name was inextricably linked. The Rosenbergs were convicted of conspiring to deliver secrets of the atomic bomb to the Soviet Union in World War II.
        In their trial, which began two years after the Soviet Union had exploded its first atomic bomb, the Rosenbergs and their co-defendant, Morton Sobell, were accused of accelerating by five to 10 years the end of the American nuclear monopoly, by providing critical secrets to the Russians. The courtroom drama was played out against the backdrop of the Iron Curtain, behind which the Soviet Union had occupied Eastern Europe and was supporting the North Korean advance against South Korea.
        In 1950, Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, Republican of Wisconsin, started brandishing a list that he said had the names of 205 Communists in the State Department, and the House Committee on Un-American Activities was sowing the fear of Communism in the United States. The trial became a cause celebre for the left, which still contends that the Rosenbergs and their co-defendant were framed in a paroxysm of anti-Red hysteria.
        But even some who were less politically committed and who accepted the guilt of the Rosenbergs attacked Judge Kaufman's decision to impose the death penalty, sentences that were allowed to stand by the Court of Appeals, the Supreme Court and the President, but that remain the sole death sentences ever carried out in the United States for espionage by American civilians.
        A postscript to the controversy came from an unexpected source, Nikita S. Khrushchev. In the third and final volume of his memoirs, which appeared last year, the former Soviet leader wrote that he had learned from Stalin and from the longtime Soviet Foreign Minister, Vyacheslav M. Molotov, that the Rosenbergs had "provided very significant help in accelerating the production of our atomic bomb."
        That disclosure was made a year after the director of the city where the Soviet Union had developed its first atomic bomb, Boris V. Brokhovich, had told The New York Times, "We got nothing from the Rosenbergs."  Strong Reactions To 'Old Issues'
        The death sentence haunted the national conscience. In 1975, Judge Kaufman was forced to cancel a speech at a graduation ceremony at Pomona College in California because of disturbances at a rally over reopening the trial. He wrote in an article in The New York Times Magazine that the potential threat from the appearance did not arise from the nature of his planned remarks, "but rather from a continuing pattern of harassment because of a trial I presided over more than 20 years ago, prior even to the birth of the vast majority of present university students."
        "I felt it unfortunate," he wrote, "if not unfair, that these old issues should affect an invitation to speak today, for in the intervening years I had written decisions in a wide range of cases."
        Judge Kaufman sought to underline that point in a 13-page resume he prepared for the public record in which he relegated his role in the Rosenberg trial to the last page. But his painful preoccupation with the espionage case soon became evident to those who knew him.
        A young law graduate remembered that in his first meeting with the judge, a job interview, Judge Kaufman had said he knew the headline on his obituary would mention the Rosenbergs. Some of his law clerks remember a packet of dogeared 3-by-5 index cards that he kept on his desk into the 80's with quotations from the trial. Often on top was the remark by a defense lawyer, Emanuel H. Bloch, thanking him for his "utmost courtesy" at the trial.
        And he was known to carry clippings endorsing his conduct of the trial in his breast pocket, to quote from at dinner parties.
        Not everyone was as preoccupied with the case as he was. David Boies, a lawyer who represented CBS News in the Herbert v. Lando libel case in Judge Kaufman's court, said that although it was fair from a historical perspective to emphasize the Rosenberg case, "if you asked 100 lawyers in the 40-year-old bracket what the significant cases of Judge Kaufman were, a relatively small number would think of the Rosenbergs."
        "He had an extraordinarily long judicial career," Mr. Boies said. "He would be a very significant judge wholly independent of his first 10 years on the bench."
        A law professor at Yale University, Geoffrey Hazard, said: "I think he was an extraordinarily able and energetic person. It is also true that he felt a strong inclination to be in the public eye. I think his inclination in that regard diminished the professional appreciation of his judicial abilities."  Longtime Ambition To Be a Judge
        From the first time he saw a black-robed judge enter a courtroom, Judge Kaufman said, it was his ambition to be a judge. Had it not been for the controversy surrounding the Rosenberg case, he might have fulfilled his ultimate ambition, to be on the Supreme Court.
        But Justice Felix Frankfurter, infuriated with Judge Kaufman's performance at the trial, was determined not to let that happen.
        Judge Kaufman had let it be known that before imposing the sentence he had gone to a synagogue to pray for guidance. Justice Frankfurter's first law clerk, Joseph Rauh, said Justice Frankfurter considered that "unjudicial conduct," a blatant effort to obtain publicity in his drive to win the "Jewish seat" on the Court.
        Justice Frankfurter wrote to Judge Learned Hand: "I despise a judge who feels God told him to impose a death sentence. I am mean enough to try to stay here long enough so that K will be too old to succeed me."
        In sentencing the Rosenbergs, Judge Kaufman called their crime "worse than murder." Later, he denied judicial clemency, despite what he called "a mounting organized campaign of vilification, abuse and pressure." He complained of threatening letters and asked for and received police protection for himself and his family.
        Two decades later, the controversy was rekindled, when Federal Bureau of Investigation documents, released under the Freedom of Information Act in the 70's, disclosed that Judge Kaufman, who had said he had reached his decision to sentence the Rosenbergs to death in a solitary struggle of conscience, had actually had private discussions about the sentence with the prosecution and that he had repeatedly called the F.B.I. in an effort to expedite the executions.
        The documents showed that the F.B.I. chief, J. Edgar Hoover, had opposed the death sentence for Mrs. Rosenberg.
        Although discussions by a judge with one side in a case are usually considered a violation of the canons of judicial ethics, a subcommittee of the American Bar Association, in a report in 1977 that was never acted on by the A.B.A., exonerated Judge Kaufman. The report called his conduct in the trial totally unexceptionable. It said the F.B.I. memos did "not cast any doubt on the lawfulness or propriety of the proceedings or of the trial judge's conduct."  School in Bronx To Foley Square
        Irving Robert Kaufman was born on June 24, 1910, in New York City. He attended De Witt Clinton High School in the Bronx and Fordham University and graduated from the Fordham Law School in 1931, when he was 20 years old.
        The next year he went to work in the law office of Louis Rosenberg, who was not related to Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. He eventually married Louis Rosenberg's daughter Helen, but not until he had left her father's firm to become an assistant United States attorney. He said he did not want to appear to be courting the boss's daughter.
        Mrs. Kaufman survives him, as does their son James Michael, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren. A second son, Richard Kenneth, died last year, and a third son, Robert Howard, died in 1977.
        Judge Kaufman was chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit at Foley Square from 1973 until the mandatory retirement age of 70 in 1980, but remained on the court as a regular judge until 1987, when he took senior status.
        A former chairman of the standing committee on the Federal judiciary of the A.B.A., Bernard G. Segal, said of Judge Kaufman: "He constantly improved insofar as his judicial performance. He was an excellent chief judge. He was a very conscientious but a very demanding person."
        Of the opinions written by Judge Kaufman involving the First Amendment, these were among the most important:
        *Edwards v. the National Audubon Society (1977), in which he wrote that a newspaper does not commit libel by fairly and accurately reporting accusatory statements by a responsible public organization, even if the statements are clearly defamatory and false.
        *Herbert v. Lando (1977), in which he found that the plaintiff in a libel action may not probe the "state of mind" of a journalist, a decision that the Supreme Court overturned. After extensive additional pretrial proceedings, the District Court dismissed most of the contentions. On appeal, Judge Kaufman dismissed the remainder.
        *Reeves v. ABC (1983), in which he wrote that a reporter was constitutionally protected against libel in good-faith reporting of government proceedings like a grand jury investigation.
        *The Nation v. Harper & Row (1983), in which the decision overruled a lower court and said the magazine had constitutional protection to publish excerpts from President Gerald R. Ford's memoirs before publication. The Supreme Court overruled the decision in 1985.  First Amendment And Desegregation
        In 1971, Judge Kaufman dissented in the case of the United States v. The New York Times, when the court ruled that publishing the Pentagon Papers would threaten national security enough to justify prior restraint. The Supreme Court, agreeing with Judge Kaufman, reversed the decision.
        A constitutional lawyer who specializes in First Amendment cases, Floyd Abrams, called Judge Kaufman "one of the most eloquent articulators of the underlying meaning of the First Amendment."
        "His rulings," Mr. Abrams said, "reflected an abiding belief in the significance of free expression for everybody."
        In 1982, he ruled on First Amendment grounds that the Communist Party of the United States of America was not required to disclose the names of contributors to its Presidential campaign.
        Judge Kaufman's order to desegregate an elementary school in the North, a first, was in 1961, in Taylor v. Board of Education. In requiring the desegregation of the almost wholly black Lincoln School in New Rochelle in Westchester County, Judge Kaufman said, referring to the Brown v. Board of Education decision in 1954, "Compliance with the Supreme Court's edict was not to be less forthright in the North than in the South."
        In antitrust law, his ruling in Berkey v. Kodak (1979) is considered a landmark. Reversing a lower-court decision, Judge Kaufman ruled that a company was entitled to protect its dominant position in the market by normal competitive methods; that the purpose of the antitrust law was to encourage competition, and not to insulate companies from competition, and that activity that resulted in lower prices and better products for the consumer was to be favored, even if that activity was harmful to individual competitors.
        Mr. Boies, expressing an opinion widely held in the legal profession, said that in antitrust law this decision was cited more than any other. Strong Stands On Crime and Drugs
        In 1960, Judge Kaufman presided over the trial of 20 underworld figures arrested in 1957 in Apalachin, N.Y. He handed out maximum sentences. The verdict, however, was reversed on the ground that the Government had not proved criminality in the meeting.
        In July 1983, Judge Kaufman was named chairman of the President's Commission on Organized Crime. The commission chided President Reagan and Vice President Bush for their contacts with the president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Jackie Presser, who had been under investigation because of charges of corruption.
        The commission said such contacts could "lead to the erosion of public confidence and dampen the desire to end racketeering."
        The panel said, "Organized crime is aware of this and purposefully seeks to cultivate and benefit from political influence."
        In a report in 1986 the commission estimated that organized crime was a $100 billion-a-year business, with drug trafficking accounting for 40 percent of organized criminal activity. The commission urged a widespread program to test workers for drug use.
        A short man, about 5 feet 4 inches, with gray hair and a prickly personality, Judge Kaufman was known as a stern taskmaster who was demanding of his law clerks. He was so demanding that in recent years several resigned the prestigious position rather than put up with what they described as angry shouting.
        But others, from earlier years, look back at their time as a Kaufman clerk with satisfaction. Edward P. Krugman, a clerk in 1978 and 1979, said: "It was in many ways the best year of my life, if not necessarily the pleasantest. I've since discovered that the tension I found to be the unpleasant aspect was endemic to the practice of law, and not peculiar to life in those chambers."
      