
        Roy Acuff, the singer and fiddler who was known to millions of Grand Ole Opry listeners as the King of Country Music, died yesterday at Baptist Hospital in Nashville. He was 89 years old.
        He died of congestive heart failure, a hospital statement said.
        Mr. Acuff, in his six decades as an entertainer, became known for his virtuosity on the yo-yo, his collection of handpainted ties and his ability to balance a fiddle bow on his nose. But he was first and last a "hillbilly music" traditionalist.
        He performed his best-known songs, "Wabash Cannonball," "The Great Speckled Bird" and "The Precious Jewel," with an acoustic string band and sang in the white-gospel tenor style he had learned while listening to Baptist services performed by his father in the mountains of Tennessee. Co-Founder of a Company
        The climb of Mr. Acuff, particularly after he joined the Grand Ole Opry in 1938, also coincided with country's shift from string-band and vocal-harmony music to a style dominated by solo singers with bands.
        "I like to think I was the first person to bring voice to the Opry," Mr. Acuff once said. "I was one of the first fellows who reared back and hit a microphone with a strong voice."
        Mr. Acuff was a power in the country-music business; the character played by Henry Gibson in Robert Altman's film "Nashville," Haven Hamilton, was said to have been modeled in part on Mr. Acuff's career. He was the host on weekly Grand Ole Opry broadcasts, and he founded the Acuff-Rose Publishing Company, the world's leading country-music publisher, with the songwriter Fred Rose in 1942.
        Roy Claxton Acuff was born Sept. 15, 1903, in Maynardsville, Tenn., 24 miles east of Knoxville in the Great Smoky Mountains. His father, Neill, was a farmer, lawyer, preacher and amateur fiddle player, and Roy began singing in church. The family moved to Knoxville, where Roy became a star athlete in high school and played semiprofessional baseball and basketball after graduation. He eventually tried out for the New York Yankees. Skillet Lickers to Crackerjacks
        But in 1929, Mr. Acuff suffered a series of sunstrokes and gave up his athletic career. He spent much of the next two years indoors, listening to the music of Fiddlin' John Carson and Gid Tanner and the Skillet Lickers and practicing on a fiddle his mother had given him. Mr. Acuff joined Doc Hauer's Medicine Show in the spring of 1932, and after a season hawking Moc-a-Tan elixir he left to form his own group, the Tennessee Crackerjacks.
        As their popularity grew, Mr. Acuff's group renamed itself the Crazy Tennesseeans. They made their first recordings, including "The Great Speckled Bird," in 1936. Their Grand Ole Opry debut in 1938 generated bagfuls of listener mail, and Mr. Acuff was invited to appear regularly provided the band changed its name to something more decorous. As Roy Acuff and the Smoky Mountain Boys, they began to reach a national audience.
        Mr. Acuff scored his biggest hits as the 30's ended, including "Wabash Cannonball," featuring a train-whistle imitation Mr. Acuff had perfected while working as a call boy on the Lousville & Nashville Railroad; "Wreck on the Highway"; "Night Train to Memphis," and "Pins and Needles." Defeated for Governor
        He was given a starring spot on the coast-to-coast Saturday night Opry broadcasts on NBC radio, and during the 40's he acted in nine films for Republic Studios, including the 1940 "Grand Ole Opry." During World War II, Mr. Acuff toured the world to entertain the troops, further expanding the country audience. He was one of the first country musicians to appear on television.
        In 1943, Gov. Prentice Cooper of Tennessee declared that country music was "disgracing the state"; Mr. Acuff was entered as a protest candidate in both the Democratic and Republican gubernatorial primaries of 1944 but chose not to run. Four years later, however, he became the Republican candidate for Governor, with a platform based on the Golden Rule and the Ten Commandments.
        "If they don't work in the Capitol, then I don't want to be Governor," he said. He was defeated 2 to 1.
        Through the 50's, Mr. Acuff recorded for Okeh, Columbia, Decca, M-G-M, Capitol and finally Hickory Records, which he and Mr. Rose owned. He also continued to be the host of Grand Ole Opry broadcasts and to tour extensively. By 1962, when Mr. Acuff became the first living member elected to the Country Music Hall of Fame, he had sold more than 25 million records. Gave Nixon Yo-Yo
        In 1965, Mr. Acuff suffered severe injuries in an automobile accident. Although he stayed with the Opry, he cut back his touring schedule and spent more time working on a country-music museum and instrument collection, which is now at Opryland U.S.A. During the Vietnam War he again entertained troops overseas.
        Despite his distaste for hippies, Mr. Acuff joined the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band for its 1972 tribute to mountain music, "Will the Circle Be Unbroken." In 1973, Mr. Acuff became the oldest performer to have a record on the popularity charts, with "Back in the Country." When the Opry moved from downtown Nashville to more modern quarters in Opryland in 1974, Mr. Acuff was the host of the opening-night ceremonies and presented President Richard M. Nixon with a souvenir yo-yo.
        Mr. Acuff recorded less frequently through the 70's, although Elektra Records rereleased some of his Hickory Recordings late in the decade and Columbia Records released "Historic Edition," a collection of his hits, in 1985. Despite failing eyesight and hearing, he continued to perform at the Opry nearly every weekend.
        In 1990, Mr. Acuff and other Opry stars went to Houston to entertain President Bush and other dignitaries at an economic summit meeting.
        He received many awards during his lifetime. In December 1991, Mr. Acuff was honored during a televised ceremony at the Kennedy Center in Washington for his contribution to the performing arts. Among his other honors were the National Medal of Art in July 1991 and a Lifetime Achievement Award in 1987 from the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, the organization that presents the Grammy awards.
        Mr. Acuff's wife, Mildred, died in 1981. He is survived by a son, Roy Neill Acuff.
      