
        Albin Johnson, a retired United States diplomat who in an earlier career as a foreign correspondent reported on some of the most important events of World War II and the period leading up to it, died on Nov. 17 at his home in Osterville, Mass. He was 102 years old.
        Mr. Johnson was one of that small band of newspaper reporters who tracked the emergence of the world from one devastating war and its descent into another.
        He served with the Navy in World War I. Shortly after the war ended, he was a journalist reporting on the League of Nations conferences in Paris.  Described Ghetto Resistance
        During the 1930's, as a correspondent for several American newspapers and as Swiss bureau chief of The New York World, Mr. Johnson reported on the rise of Hitler and Mussolini. During the war, Mr. Johnson, based in Stockholm, roamed over as much of Europe as possible.
        His dispatch for the North American Newspaper Alliance describing for the first time the Nazi capture of the Warsaw ghetto in June 1943 was typical of his work. The dispatch, which appeared in The New York Times on Oct. 26, 1943, began:
        "In these days when epics like Stalingrad and Sevastopol, Dunkerque and Bataan are commonplace, and tragedies like Rotterdam, Andalsnes, Lidice and Novo Mesto still shock the sensibilities, it is hard to find superlatives for either heroism or atrocities, so the story of the Battle of the Warsaw Ghetto can perhaps best be told in plain, uncensored English."
        Mr. Johnson went on to make clear that the six-month resistance of the 100,000 inhabitants of the ghetto to the Nazis was indeed heroic.
        In the war, Mr. Johnson also undertook secret intelligence-gathering missions for the United States Office of Strategic Services in Sweden, Finland and Italy.
        After the war he was a member of the American delegation to the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission from 1946 to 1950, and the first secretary and public affairs officer of the Embassy in Sweden in 1951-52.
        Mr. Johnson is survived by a son, Lieut. Col. Norman P. Johnson, of Bronxville, N.Y.; three grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      