
        William Harreld Moore, the railroad man who tried but failed to save the debt-ridden Penn Central Transportation Company in the early 1970's, died Monday at a nursing home in Potomac, Md. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Moore died of cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Mr. Moore was executive vice president, and second in command, at the Southern Railway System when trustees of the bankrupt Penn Central chose him as president and chief executive in 1970. His forbidding task was to see the company through a reorganization under Federal bankruptcy laws.
        "I certainly realize that the Penn Central has many, many problems," he said as he was about to take charge. "But I feel capable of solving them; otherwise I would never have taken the job." Slashing Expenses
        An electrical engineer by training, he took 29 years of railroading experience to the Penn Central job. Regarded as a tough, get-it-done executive, he set out to streamline operations and improve efficiency. One of his first acts was to reduce the number of vice presidents to 11, from 35.
        He ran the company partly while traveling the Penn Central system aboard a company rail car to get a firsthand look at rail beds and rolling stock.
        While he managed to improve some of the equipment and reduce the enormous deficits on the company's balance sheets, his efforts failed in the end despite huge Federal loan guarantees, the kind of help for faltering businesses that then became a subject of debate. Mr. Moore resigned in 1974, a year before his contract was up.
        In 1976, Penn Central went down in American history as the biggest business failure the country had yet seen. The company's assets, along with those of other moribund railroads, were passed to a new, Government-supported consolidated rail system, Conrail.
        Born in Hazard, Ky., Mr. Moore received a degree in electrical engineering from the Virginia Military Institute in 1937. He spent the next four years working for the Sperry Corporation before joining Southern Railway as a student apprentice. He worked as a trainmaster and supervisor before climbing the corporate ladder.
        After his retirement from Penn Central, and until recently, he worked as a consultant for railroad equipment andsupply companies. He also held directorships in several corporations.
        Mr. Moore is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Virginia Perrow Smith; a son, William H. Moore Jr. of Atlanta, and three grandchildren.
      