
        Richard W. Hall, the author of six books of fiction and a collection of plays, all on gay themes, and a book critic, died last Thursday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        His death was reported yesterday by his sister, Dr. Marny Hall of Oakland, Calif., who said the cause was AIDS.
        Mr. Hall's "Family Fictions" (Viking Penguin, 1991) was praised by The New York Times Book Review as an "elegant, entangled chronicle of one family's deceptions."
        In a cover article for The Book Review in June 1988, Mr. Hall surveyed the emerging field of homosexual literature and analyzed its trends. "Nowadays, a gay novel rarely explains, complains or apologizes," he wrote. "It assumes that ignorance about homosexuality is a thing of the past and that bigotry signifies either a poor education or a retrograde conscience." Elected to Critics Circle
        Mr. Hall was the first openly gay critic elected to the National Book Critics Circle. He wrote book reviews for The San Francisco Chronicle and for six years wrote a book column for The Advocate, a gay magazine.
        His books included "Fidelities: A Book of Stories" (Viking, 1992), "Letter from a Great-Uncle and Other Stories" (Grey Fox, 1985), "Three Plays for a Gay Theater" (Grey Fox, 1983), "Couplings: A Book of Stories" (Grey Fox, 1981) and "The Butterscotch Prince" (Pyramid/Harcourt Brace, 1975).
        Mr. Hall was born in Manhattan and grew up in Westchester County. In World War II he served in the United States Army, reaching the rank of sergeant. Graduate of Harvard
        After graduating from Harvard University, he earned a master's degree in English education at New York University.
        Before becoming a full-time writer, he worked in advertising for J. Walter Thompson and in public relations for Western Electric and Celanese. From 1971 to 1975 he taught at Inter American University in San Juan, P.R., and served as acting director of its University Press.
        His companion, Arthur Marceau, died in 1989.
        He is survived by his sister.
      