
        Francis Birch, professor emeritus of geology at Harvard University and co-designer of an atomic bomb, died on Friday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 88 years old and lived in Cambridge.
        He died of prostate cancer, said his wife, Barbara.
        Much of his career was devoted to studying the way materials respond to the extremely high pressures found in the earth's interior. He and his associates measured sound velocities in such materials, enabling scientists to interpret the seismic waves recorded from distant earthquakes.
        His wife said Dr. Birch also played an important role in designing the Little Boy atomic bomb and helped load the device on the bomber at Tinian Island before it was dropped on Hiroshima at the end of World War II. From 1942 to 1945, while at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Los Alamos, N.M., where the bomb was designed, he held a commission in the Navy, ending as a commander.  Educated at Harvard
        Albert Francis Birch was born in Washington and received all of his advanced education at Harvard. Although much of his career was devoted to geophysics, he graduated from Harvard in 1924, magna cum laude, with a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering and, until 1926, worked at the New York Telephone Company.
        His original appointment at Harvard, in 1928, was as an assistant in physics, but in 1932 he became a research associate in geophysics and, in 1949, Sturgis-Hooper Professor of Geology. Meanwhile he had been recruited as an engineer by the Radiation Laboratory at M.I.T., moving to Los Alamos, N.M., to work on the atomic bomb. He became a professor emeritus in 1974.
        Dr. Birch received a large number of awards reflecting the diversity of his interests. These included the National Medal of Science, presented by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968, the Day Medal of the American Geographical Society and the William Bowie Medal of the American Geophysical Union.
        Other awards included the Vetlesen Prize, given by Columbia University for outstanding research in geophysics, the Penrose Medal of the Geological Society of America and the Gold Medal of the Royal Astronomical Society in Britain.
        In 1946 he served as president of the Geological Society of America.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Francis S. Birch of Durham, N.H.; two daughters, Anne C. Hughes and Mary N. Birch, both of Cambridge, Mass.; three brothers, David S. Birch of Garden City, L.I., John A. Birch of Chevy Chase, Md., and Robert F. Birch of New York City, as well as five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      