
        Paul W. Walter, a lawyer who led international peace efforts and was an adviser to former Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio, died Wednesday at his home in Bratenahl, Ohio, near Cleveland. He was 85 years old.
        He died of heart failure and cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Walter promoted peace as the national president of the United World Federalists. In 1962, he helped win Congressional approval of a $100 million loan to the United Nations. President John F. Kennedy recruited him to lobby Senate Republicans to help win passage in 1963 of a treaty with the Soviet Union and Britain barring all nuclear tests except underground ones.
        Mr. Walter helped manage three Senate campaigns for Taft, who died in 1953 at the age of 63, and worked on Taft's unsuccessful campaign for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1952. He also helped draft the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947, which curbed strikes by letting employers sue unions for broken contracts, banned closed shops and established the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service. Headed a Settlement House
        In 1935, Mr. Walter managed Harold H. Burton's successful campaign for mayor of Cleveland, and he led a campaign for a municipal utility that earned him the label of a socialist Republican.
        For 52 years Mr. Walter headed Hiram House, a settlement house where he worked as a youth and met his wife, Susan Hamilton. He also headed the Cleveland Y.M.C.A.
        Mr. Walter, who was born in Cleveland, received a bachelor's degree from Adelbert College in 1928 and a law degree from Western Reserve University in 1932. He then co-founded what later became a major Cleveland law firm, Walter, Haverfield, Buescher & Chockley.
        He was a charter member of the National Academy of Arbitrators, helped found the Manners Big Boy Restaurants and owned the Sheet Metal Products Company.
        Mr. Walter's wife died earlier this year. He is survived by a daughter, Susan Cargile of Shaker Heights, Ohio; a son, Paul W. Walter Jr. of Lee, Mass.; a brother, Armin A. Walter of Columbus, Ohio,; a sister, Ruth W. Helmuth of Cleveland, and two grandchildren.
      