
        Alexander Dubcek, the Czechoslovak leader whose bold attempt in 1968 to give his country "socialism with a human face" was crushed by an invasion of Soviet-led Warsaw Pact troops, died yesterday. He was 70 years old.
        He died at Homolse Hospital from "failure of vital organs" yesterday morning, the official news agency reported. Mr. Dubcek had been listed in critical condition for the last two weeks and had been hospitalized since an automobile accident on Sept. 1. Health Minister Robert Lom, who made the announcement, did not link the death directly to the accident.
        The accident occurred when a car driven by Mr. Dubcek's chauffeur left the highway in a rainstorm and plunged down a ravine. Mr. Dubcek suffered serious spine and chest injuries and underwent surgery.
        The chauffeur, Jan Reznik, was charged with "causing bodily harm," according to the state news agency. He was not seriously injured. Complications for Nation
        The death of Mr. Dubcek may complicate the political situation in Czechoslovakia, which plans to split into two independent states on Jan. 1. Mr. Dubcek, who had been subjected to years of banishment by the Communist authorities who replaced him after the collapse of his "Prague Spring" in 1968, remained a popular figure. Although he opposed the breakup of Czechoslovakia, he had been mentioned as a possible candidate to become president of an independent Slovakia.
        There were Czechs and Slovaks who thought he was too old to lead again but nobody questioned his courage and his ideals. Confrontation With Kremlin
        Almost immediately upon succeeding Antonin Novotny as first secretary of the Czechslovak Communist Party in January 1968, Mr. Dubcek began to loosen the stringent control that had defined Communist political life in Eastern Europe under the dominant influence of the Soviet Union. He quickly found himself in confrontation with the Kremlin.
        He had previously been known as a loyal Communist with strong party credentials, and was regarded as a shy man, certainly not one given to impulsive action.
        Within weeks of taking office, however, Mr. Dubcek stunned Moscow and the rest of the world with his publicly stated determination to achieve the "widest possible democratization" of Czechoslovakia and the establishment of "a free, modern, and profoundly humane society."
        Mr. Dubcek relaxed the party's censor control of Czechoslovak newspapers and broadcasts and permitted the Writers Union, a group of militant dissidents, to freely write and edit a literary journal. And he sent out word that the purges and political vendettas of the past were to be no more. The Dubcek Problem
        This was heady wine in 1968; nothing remotely resembling such independence had existed in Eastern Europe since the unsuccessful Hungarian uprising of 1956, which also had been crushed by Soviet troops. Party conformists in and out of Czechoslovakia were amazed and angry. By the middle of July 1968, Communist leaders from East Germany, Poland, Hungary and Bulgaria were holding a summit meeting in in Warsaw to deliberate what had become the Dubcek problem.
        Conspicuously absent from the meeting was Mr. Dubcek himself, who would have nothing to do with it. He said the very goal of the summit constituted meddling in the internal affairs of his country and was thus unacceptable. When other Warsaw Pact nations denounced his own behavior as unacceptable, the Czechoslovak Communist Party's Central Committee announced rather nervously that Mr. Dubcek's liberal moves would only strengthen the nation's ties to the rest of the Warsaw Pact nations.
        The relationship between Moscow and Prague crumbled rapidly. In July 1968, the Soviet authorities reluctantly agreed to a meeting on Czechoslovak soil near the Soviet border between Mr. Dubcek and Leonid I. Brezhnev, the Soviet Communist Party leader.
        Some concessions were reportedly made by the Czechoslovaks, but Mr. Dubcek resisted Mr. Brezhnev's insistence that the important liberal reforms that had become known as the "Prague Spring" be rescinded. In the weeks that followed, Mr. Dubcek got some words of encouragement from President Tito of Yugoslavia and President Nicolae Ceausescu of Romania.
        Walter Ulbricht, the hard-line Communist leader of East Germany, warned Mr. Dubcek that prudence dictated a quick return to Communist orthodoxy.  Warsaw Pact Invasion
        On Aug. 21, 1968, after it became clear to the Moscow that Mr. Dubcek was not going to compromise in any substantive way, armed forces from the Soviet Union, Hungary, Poland, East Germany and Bulgaria invaded Czechoslovakia. For days, the world read accounts and watched on television as unarmed Czechoslovak students and workers confronted Soviet tanks and soldiers with flowers and placards pleading with them to go home. The images contrasted with Moscow's assurances that the invasion had taken place only because Communist leaders within Czechoslovakia had asked for such intervention.
        Inside and outside the Communist world, there was widespread condemnation of the invasion. The Communist parties of France, Italy, Yugoslavia and China, among others, denounced the Soviet move. The United Nations Security Council voted 10 to 2 for a resolution that called for withdrawal of the invading forces, but the Soviet Union vetoed it. Sporadic violence erupted. Within a few days, 20 Czechslovaks were killed and more than 300 were wounded in Prague, according to Government estimates.
        As Soviet tanks rumbled through the streets of Prague, the Czechoslovak Communist Party held its 14th Party Congress in secret and elected a Central Committee and a Presidium filled with ideological allies of Mr. Dubcek. The party re-elected Mr. Dubcek first secretary of the party.
        Finally, Mr. Dubcek was arrested and, with a number of his closest political allies, was flown to Moscow. A few days later, back in Prague, Mr. Dubcek had tears in his eyes as he implored his people to continue to trust him, although "we might be forced to take some temporary measures that limit democracy and freedom of opinion." He urged an end to the confrontation and asked his people for self-control. Forestry Official
        After the invasion, Mr. Dubcek was expelled from the party and dispatched to Turkey, where he served as Czechoslovak Ambassador to Ankara. Then, in June 1970, he was banished to an even more obscure job dealing with forestry in his native Bratislava, and there he remained until 1987.
        In November 1989 he reappeared in Czechoslovak national life, delivering a speech before a huge rally in Bratislava, as the wave that would sweep Communism from power reached its crest in nationwide strikes and demonstrations. Mr. Dubcek backed Vaclav Havel, the playwright who had been jailed by the Communists, and his so-called "Velvet Revolution." On the night Mr. Havel was elected President, the playwright introduced Mr. Dubcek on the balcony overlooking Wenceslas Square. Throngs of Czechoslovaks cheered him wildly.
        The man who was ahead of his time and not forgotten by his people was unanimously elected speaker of Parliament, as Mr. Havel became President. At his death, Mr. Dubcek was the leader of Slovakia's Social Democrats. Son of U.S. Emigres
        Alexander Dubcek was born Nov. 27, 1921, in Uhrocev, a village in western Slovakia, not far from Bratislava. He was the youngest of two sons born to Stefan amd Pavlina Dubcek. His parents had immigrated to the United States early in the century and were married in Chicago, where they lived. There, Stefan Dubcek worked as a cabinet maker by day and as an activist in Eugene V. Debs' Socialist Party in his spare time. During World War I, Stefan was interned at a camp in Texas because he refused to submit to the draft.
        After the war, Stefan returned to Slovakia but in 1925 moved with his family to Kirghizia in Soviet Central Asia. He made the move in response to an appeal from Moscow for Czechs and Slovaks to come to the new Soviet Union and help build it. Stefan founded an industrial cooperative in Kirghizia and worked diligently for the party. The Dubcek family returned to Slovakia in 1938.
        Alexander, trained as a locksmith, was 18 years old when he joined the outlawed Communist Party in Czechoslovakia. After World War II started, he became a partisan fighting the Nazis and served with the Jan Zizka Brigade, which operated in the lower Tatra Mountains, harassing the Germans whenever it could.
        After World War II, Mr. Dubcek got a job as a laborer in a yeast factory in Trencin and became more active in party work. In 1949, he became party secretary in the Trencin district and in 1951 was named a member of the Central Committee of the Slovak Communist Party in Bratislava. He also studied law there at Komensky University. Studied in Moscow
        The party sent him to the Moscow Political College, from which he was graduated with honors in 1958. He was noticed then by Antonin Novotny, who told Mr. Dubcek's father that Alexander had the makings of a leader.
        In 1962, Alexander Dubcek became a member of the Czechoslovak Party Presidium. A year later, he succeeded Karol Balicek, a Stalinist, as first secretary of the Slovak Communist Party.
        Up to that point, he had expressed little if any concern with the bloodletting of the Stalinist era; he would later explain that he did not believe the rumors he heard. Mr. Dubcek focused on the needs of his own people, the Slovaks, who in his opinion had been economically malnourished in their union with the Czechs.
        When he succeeded Mr. Novotny, he was popular both in and out of the party. In the years since 1968, Mr. Dubcek said that he would do it over again, if given the chance. He said that he had never feared for his life, but that when he thought of all that had happened to the people of Czechoslovakia, "tears come to my eyes easily."
        Mr. Dubcek's wife, Anna, died in 1990. They had three sons, Paul, Peter and Milan and since the early 1970s had lived in a small villa near Bratislava.
      