
        Mark H. Rosenberg, a producer of "The Killing Fields," "Presumed Innocent" and other hit films, died Friday on a movie set in Stanton, Tex., near Odessa. He was 44 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said Warner Brothers, the studio with which he worked.
        Mr. Rosenberg, whose early success in the film industry once caused him to be described as one of Hollywood's baby moguls, was promoted by Warner to the presidency of its Worldwide Theatrical Production in 1983, when he was only 35.
        During his two years in that post, he produced "The Killing Fields," "The World According to Garp," "Never Say Never Again" and "Greystoke: The Legend of Tarzan, Lord of the Apes," among others.
        After leaving Warner in 1985, he joined Sydney Pollack at Mirage Productions. Together they produced "Bright Lights, Big City," "Major League," "Presumed Innocent" and "King Ralph." Partnership With Wife
        In 1989 Mr. Rosenberg formed Spring Creek Productions with his wife, the producer Paula Weinstein. They developed an arrangement with Warner and began working on its lot. Spring Creek was the producer of "The Fabulous Baker Boys" and "Flesh and Bone," the movie on which Mr. Rosenberg was working when he collapsed Friday.
        Mr. Rosenberg was born in Passaic, N.J., and attended Bard College and the University of Wisconsin. During the campus unrest of the late 1960's, he was a leader of Students for a Democratic Society, which posed fierce resistance to the Vietnam War.
        His political activity continued in later years with his opposition to apartheid and his advocacy of human rights, for which he was honored by the American Civil Liberties Union.
        Early in his career, Mr. Rosenberg moved to Los Angeles to work for Seineger & Associates in film advertising and marketing. Then he became a literary agent with International Creative Management and with Adams, Ray & Rosenberg. In 1978, he joined Warner as vice president for production.
        Besides his wife, his survivors include his mother, Martha Wald of Verona, N.J., and a brother, Alan Rosenberg of Los Angeles, an actor on the television series "Civil Wars."
      