
        Scott W. McPherson, an actor and playwright who wrote "Marvin's Room," an award-winning Off Broadway hit, died yesterday at his home in Chicago. He was 33 years old.
        He died of complications from AIDS, said a friend of his, Andrew Patner.
        Mr. McPherson recently finished the screenplay for a film of "Marvin's Room" being produced by Robert DeNiro. The stage version won the Drama Desk and Outer Critics Circle awards. Its lead actress, Laura Esterman, won an Obie, and Mr. McPherson won two awards as the author.
        The play is about Bessie, who is dying from leukemia and taking care of her father, Marvin, who is bedridden from terminal cancer and strokes, and his sister, Ruth, whose spine is disintegrating.
        Despite the play's grim setting, Frank Rich of The New York Times called it "one of the funniest plays of this year as well as one of wisest and most moving." He hailed Mr. McPherson as an original new voice.
        Although Mr. McPherson did not have AIDS when he wrote the play, it was prompted partly by the epidemic. But it was also loosely inspired by memories of aging, relatives in Florida named Bessie, Marvin and Ruth.
        Mr. McPherson was born in Columbus, Ohio. His interest in theater started in high school, where he wrote and acted. He studied theater and dance at Ohio University and graduated in 1981.
        Moving to Chicago, he wrote for local television and acted in four theater companies, including a production of Larry Kramer's AIDS play, "The Normal Heart." He wrote two plays, "Till the Fat Lady Sings," which was produced, and "Scraped."
        Next was "Marvin's Room," performed first in Chicago then in Hartford. The play moved to New York City's Playwrights Horizons last December, then to the Minetta Lane Theater, where its run ended in September.
        He also completed "Legal Briefs," a comedy, for Norman Lear.
        Mr. McPherson is survived by his mother and stepfather, Peggy and John Sansbury of Upper Arlington, Ohio; a brother, Mark of Columbus, and five stepbrothers and stepsisters.
      