
        Dr. Jean Hamburger, a pioneer in the field of kidney transplants, an acclaimed writer and president of the French Academy of Sciences, died Saturday in Paris. He was was 82 years old.
        He died from complications after heart surgery, said Dr. Thomas E. Starzl, professor of surgery at the University of Pittsburgh.
        Dr. Hamburger, a professor of medicine at the University of Paris, was credited with coining the word nephrology -- the study of kidney diseases.
        He was the founder of the International Society of Nephrology, which established an award in his name. He identified a number of previously unrecognized syndromes and diseases, including water intoxification, hereditary renal disorders, and illness involving the kidney's filtering system.
        Dr. Hamburger developed one of the first two artificial kidneys, and a team under his direction carried out the first successful kidney transplant between individuals who were not twins in 1962. His group also performed the first successful transplant from a cadaver a year later.
        Dr. Shaul G. Massry, a professor medicine and and chief of the nephrology division at the University of Southern California, said in tribute: "He is considered one of the founders of modern nephrology. His pioneering work in the field of renal immunology has played a critical role in advancing renal transplantation."
        He noted that Dr. Hamburger had "educated and generated a full school of nephrologists in France and throughout the world."
        The physician and scientist was born on July 15, 1909, in Paris and educated at the Sorbonne. Later, he received a doctorate in science and a medical degree.
        Dr. Hamburger carried out much of his work as chief of the nephrology department of Necker Hospital in Paris. He contributed hundreds of articles, and some of his textbooks were published in English in the United States.
        After retiring, he began a new career -- as the author of more than a dozen books on philosophy and literature, several of which became best sellers in France. One of them, "The Power and the Frailty," was translated into 14 languages and published in the United States.
        The French Academy elected him as one of its 40 members in 1985, basing the election substantially on his writing.
        He became president of the Academy of Sciences last year and was a past president of the International Society of Transplantation.
        Information on Dr. Hamburger's survivors was not immediately available.
      