
        Larry Levan, a disk jockey, producer and remixer who changed the sound of dance music, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 38 years old, and a resident of New York City.
        He died of heart failure resulting from endocarditis, said Mel Charen, a friend.
        From 1976 to 1987, Mr. Levan was the disk jockey at the Paradise Garage on King Street in SoHo, where he had helped design and assemble the award-winning sound system. He chose records to sustain all-night dance marathons: often, songs with a thumping midtempo pulse and a cool electronic overlay. Combining bits and pieces of various records, sometimes adding electric keyboards, he created seamless dance music.
        Fellow disk jockeys, producers, radio programmers and musicians picked up his taste, which spread to dance clubs across the United States and Europe. Mr. Levan remixed influential records by Taana Gardner and Instant Funk and produced "Don't Make Me Wait" by the N.Y.C. Peech Boys. When dance records known as house music began to appear in the mid-1980's, it was clear that Mr. Levan's "garage" style had influenced innumerable musicians and dancers. Designed His Own Speakers
        He also influenced the sound of club sound systems and audio components. With Richard Long, he designed Levan speakers and installed sound systems that are now used in many dance clubs.
        Mr. Levan, whose given name was Lawrence Philpot, was born in Brooklyn. In the early 1970's, he worked as a disk jockey at some of the clubs where disco music was forged, including the Continental Baths, the Gallery and the Loft. Mr. Charen, a partner in the Paradise Garage, said Mr. Levan found the club's location. "The Garage was built around Larry," Mr. Charen said.
        For 11 years, the club was ahead of dance-music trends, from disco to house music. Producers would come to the club to hear unreleased dance music and see its effect on the dance floor; eventually, Mr. Levan began making records as well as playing them.  Triumphal Tour of Japan
        The club closed in 1987, and Mr. Levan did not find another regular engagement as a disk jockey. But in August and September of this year, he toured Japan to wide acclaim. He was working on a book about the Paradise Garage with Mr. Charen.
        Mr. Levan is survived by his mother, Minnie Levan, his sister, also Minnie Levan, and his brother, Isaac Levan.
        A memorial service is to be held Nov. 19 at 5:30 P.M. at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, 619 Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street.
      