
        William Meng Duke, a corporate executive and a leader in space technologies, died on Sunday at St. John's Medical Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 76 years old and lived at Huntington Beach and La Quinta, Calif.
        He died after a two-year battle against pancreatic cancer, said his sister-in-law, Irene Nicholson.
        As a vice president with the Space Technology Laboratories in Los Angeles from 1956 to 1962, Dr. Duke was in charge of the engineering and technical direction of the Thor, Atlas, Titan and Minuteman programs. Later he was named to head research and engineering at the company.
        Dr. Duke joined the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation in 1962, becoming president of the ITT Federal Laboratories in Nutley, N.J. The following year he became vice president and general manager of the ITT U.S. Defense Group.
        Dr. Duke was president and chief executive of the Whittaker Corporation of Los Angeles from 1964 to 1970. He then became chairman and president of the Sciences Management Corporation, a Whittaker subsidiary, offering planning and management services to other companies.
        Later, as a private consultant, Dr. Duke specialized in the rehabilitation of distressed companies.
        In 1984 he was named president and chief executive of the troubled Compucorp, a maker of office automation systems, based in Santa Monica, Calif.
        In 1986 he took over the bankrupt Helionetics Inc., a military supplier based in Santa Ana, Calif., and became its president and chief executive. After the company emerged from bankruptcy, he left and worked as a consultant and a director of several corporations until his death.
        A native New Yorker, Dr. Duke graduated from New York University with a master's degree in science. He received a Ph.D. in mathematics and applied mechanics from the University of California at Los Angeles.
        A professional engineer registered in New York, he published a number of technical papers and was co-editor of "Cryogenics," published in 1963 by John Wiley & Sons.
        He is survived by his wife, Catherine Polizos; two daughters, Pamela and Alison, both of Huntington Beach and La Quinta; two sons, Dr. William Jr., of Douglaston, Queens, and Jeffrey, of Huntington Beach, and a grandson.
      