
        Charles Fraser-Smith, the gadget-designing genius on whom the character "Q" in the James Bond novels and movies was modeled, died on Monday at his home in Bratton Fleming, in southwest England. He was 88 years old.
        His family announced his death yesterday. The cause was not disclosed.
        In Ian Fleming's novels, Mr. Fraser-Smith became "Q," the shadowy man who provided the weapons. But Mr. Fraser-Smith's inventions were somewhat lower tech than the amphibious sports car that James Bond drove across the beach and into the surf, or the life-saving cigarette lighters that seemed to provide Bond with every weapon but an atomic bomb.
        Working quietly out of the Ministry of Supply, Mr. Fraser-Smith stashed compasses inside golf balls, a trick that turned up in "Diamonds Are Forever." But Mr. Fraser-Smith's real-life golf balls were designed to help prisoners of war find their way home through enemy-occupied territory.
        He was a master of disguising tools in ordinary objects. He made tiny metal saws and sewed them into standard-issue military shoelaces. He had flight crews carry pipes lined with flame-resistant asbestos that let him hide detailed maps inside -- maps that could be burned like tobacco if the airmen were shot down.
        His job, in a building next to M.I.6 in Minimax House, was so secret that neither his secretary nor his boss knew what he was doing. To make himself seem important, "I always spoke as if I were Churchill himself," he said.
        Mr. Fraser-Smith, the son of a solicitor who owned a wholesale grocery business, was orphaned at the age of 7 and brought up by a missionary family in Hertfordshire. At Brighton College, where he studied, he was deemed "scholastically useless except for woodwork and science and making things."
        His early career was one detour after another. He was a prep-school teacher in Portsmouth, a motorcycle messenger rider and an aircraft factory worker. Then, one Sunday in 1939, he gave a sermon at the Open Brethren Evangelical Church in Leeds.  'A Funny Job in London'
        In the congregation were two Ministry of Supply officials, who were impressed by his adventures when he bought a farm in Morocco and ran for the Moroccan royal family. The two officials offered him what he called "a funny job in London."
        At first he designed clothing and props for agents working behind the lines, but gradually the gadgetry took over: cameras camouflaged in cigarette lighters, shaving brushes with space inside for film. The idea was to get back ground-level pictures of damage by German warplanes and to pinpoint V-1 rocket launch sites.
        Another of his assignments was to design a trunk in which a body could be preserved in dry ice. The trunk body was later dropped into the ocean off Sicily, with false papers inside to confuse the German military -- something Fleming wove into "The Man Who Never Was."
        After the war, Mr. Fraser-Smith bought a rundown dairy farm and made it profitable. But once a year, he would spend a week explaining his gadgets at the Exmoor Steam Railway, a tourist attraction in Bratton Fleming that had an exhibit of his wartime works. "He was always delighted to explain to visitors the workings of the gadgets," June Stirling, the proprietor, told The Times of London.
        Mr. Fraser-Smith is survived by his wife, Selina, and two children by his marriage to Blanche Ellis, Brian and Christine.
      