
        Dr. Charles W. Charny, a urologist who helped his peers become aware of the existence and nature of male infertility, died Tuesday at the Graduate Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 90 years old.
        His family said he died of complications from a stroke.
        "The contributions of Dr. Charny really started a new field of research into the role of male infertility," said Dr. Lawrence Dubin, an infertility specialist and professor of urology at New York University. "His work was pioneering, and he was much respected as both a teacher as well as someone active in research in the field."
        He said Dr. Charny was the first in the United States to perform a testicle biopsy as a method of diagnosing infertility and to confirm varicocele, or varicose veins of the scrotum, as a major source of semen problems.
        Dr. Charny himself was inspired by the work of Dr. Selby Tulloch of Edinburgh, who began to repair varicocele in 1952. Dr. Charney went to London to observe how the procedure was done, and introduced it in this country in 1962. He also visited with Lord Roths- child, the biologist, who had done research in the field.
        Dr. Charny was joined by another urologist, Dr. Robert Hotchkiss of New York University, and a biologist, Dr. John MacLeod of Cornell University Medical School, in affirming male infertility as a subspecialty of urology.
        Dr. Charny was the senior attending urologic surgeon at the Albert Einstein Medical Center in Philadelphia from 1956 until he reached emeritus status 12 years later. In 53 years of medical practice he wrote 35 articles on male infertility and contributed entire chapters to the relevant literature.
        When he retired from active practice in 1983 he donated his histologic slides -- anatomical studies of the structure and functions of tissue -- to the Mutter Museum of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, and helped classify and interpret them.
        Dr. Charny, a native of Ostropol, Ukraine, attended high school in Philadelphia and received his medical degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1926.
        He became a charter member of the American Fertility Society in 1944, when it was still concerned solely with female infertility. Dr. Charny and his wife of 52 years, Sylvia Charny, set up an annual scholarship at the University of Pennsylvania in 1987 to help a student in need through a year of medical school.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sylvia Zenstein; their daughter, Ruth Charny of Manhattan and Los Angeles, and two grandsons.
      