
        Frederic Warriner, a versatile character actor on the New York stage who specialized in Shakespeare and Shaw, died on Tuesday at Middlesex Memorial Hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 76 years old and lived in Old Saybrook, Conn.
        He died of a brain hemorrhage, said a friend, Tom Martin.
        In May 1951, Mr. Warriner played the Rev. O. C. Soames in "Getting Married," for which he received the Clarence Derwent Award.
        In other Broadway productions, he appeared as Bluebeard in "St. Joan," starring Uta Hagen (1951); Salambo in "The Wayward Saint" (1955); Major Domo in "Caligula" (1956); Stephen Undershaft in "Major Barbara," starring Charles Laughton (1956), and the landlord in "Time Remembered," starring Helen Hayes (1957). In the New York Shakespeare Festival
        Among his many appearances at the New York Shakespeare Festival, Mr. Warriner played Lucio in the 1960 production of "Measure for Measure," Corbaccio in "Volpone" in 1967 and the Old Man and the Apothecary in "Romeo and Juliet" in 1968. He also played Friar Laurence and Antonio in "Two Gentlemen of Verona" both at the Delacorte Theater in July 1971 and when the play moved to Broadway later that year.
        Mr. Warriner was born on June 2, 1916, in Pasadena, Calif., was a graduate of Pasadena City College and for five years performed as a member of the Pasadena Community Playhouse.
        In World War II, Mr. Warriner served in the Army.
        Through the years, he performed with the Barter Theater in Virginia, the Wellesley Group 20 in Massachusetts, the American Shakespeare Festival Theater in Connecticut and the Phoenix Theater Company in New York City. He also toured with many national productions, and from July to December 1962 appeared as Sowerberry in the original national company of "Oliver." And in 1977, he won favorable notices for his role as Shooter O'Rourke in "Mummer's End," at the Folger Theater in Washington.
        His marriage to the actress and playwright Elinor Wright ended in divorce in the early 1950's.
        There are no survivors.
      