
        Harding Foster Bancroft, a retired vice chairman of The New York Times, former diplomat and lawyer whose counsel helped shape The Times's decision to publish the Pentagon Papers in 1971, died yesterday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital, near his Boca Grande, Fla., winter home. He was 81 years old and also lived on a farm in Millbrook, N.Y.
        Tall, blond and tweedy, Mr. Bancroft joined The Times in 1956 as assistant secretary and associate counsel. He was promoted to secretary the next year and then served as executive vice president from 1963 to 1973, when he became vice chairman. He stepped down at the end of 1975 under the company's policy of mandatory retirement for executives at the age of 65.
        What became known as the Pentagon Papers was a study, commissioned by Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara in 1967, of United States military entanglement in Southeast Asia from World War II to 1968. The New York Times obtained a copy and began to publish the hefty document on June 13, 1971, whereupon Attorney General John N. Mitchell asked it to cease lest publication cause "irreparable injury to the defense interests of the United States."
        Mr. Bancroft was on the receiving end of a telephone call in which the Justice Department warned that it was prepared to go to court. The publisher, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, decided to go ahead with publishing the Pentagon Papers after consulting with Mr. Bancroft and other top executives. The ensuing restraining order was overturned by the United States Supreme Court on June 30, 1971, in a benchmark decision for constitutional guarantees of a free press. 'The Hard Fact'
        That September Mr. Bancroft testified before a Congressional committee. "Although the Supreme Court ultimately denied the Government's request for a prior restraint, the hard fact remains that for the first time in the history of our nation the Government has sought and obtained a direct suppression of news," he asserted. "Even though the restraint lasted only 15 days, an extremely unfortunate precedent, we submit, has been established."
        He also complained that the Nixon Administration was trying to cow journalists into self-censorship and had evaded the Freedom of Information Act by seeking to hide even "nonsensitive" information.
        In a statement yesterday, Mr. Sulzberger, now chairman and chief executive officer of The New York Times Company, said: "Harding Bancroft came late to journalism, but his keen mind and native instinct rapidly led him to one of the top jobs at The New York Times. All of us who participated with him in the decision to publish the Pentagon Papers will be grateful for his intelligent analysis of the legal and ethical issues that we faced and his strong support of a free press."
        Mr. Bancroft, who was born in New York City, was the son of a banker, Francis Bancroft, and a descendant of Richard Bancroft, Archbishop of Canterbury from 1604 to 1610. He attended the Lawrenceville School and graduated from Williams College, where in later years he served on the board of trustees. He earned his law degree at Harvard Law School in 1936, after which he went into private practice in New York. United Nations Posts
        During World War II, he served with the Office of Price Administration, then as counsel to the Lend-Lease Mission, North Africa, then as a lieutenant in the Navy. In 1945, he drew a State Department assignment in the Bureau of United Nations Affairs, and President Harry S. Truman appointed him in 1951 as deputy United States representative to the United Nations Collective Measures Committee, a panel concerned with peace and security.
        His rank then was that of minister, but he left the Foreign Service in 1953 to work as legal counsel for the International Labor Office, a United Nations affiliate with its headquarters in Geneva. Mr. Bancroft briefly returned to the United Nations in 1966 when The Times gave him a leave of absence to join the United States delegation, with the rank of ambassador, at the 21st General Assembly session.
        Over the years, Mr. Bancroft served as a trustee of Sarah Lawrence College, a director of the Better Business Bureau of Metropolitan New York, board vice chairman of the Carnegie Corporation and Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a trustee of the Clark Art Institute, a governor of the New York City Center of Music and Drama and a board member of the New York Botanical Garden.
        He was also a director of the New York City Ballet, the Foreign Policy Association, the United Nations Association of the United States, the Foundation Center, Greer Children's Community in Dutchess County and the Ralph Bunche Institute on the United Nations.
        Mr. Bancroft is survived by his second wife, the former Edith Hall; two sons, Alexander C., of Manhattan, and Harding F. Jr., of London; two daughters, Mary Jane Collins of Glencoe, Md., and Catherine Bancroft of Philadelphia; three stepchildren and nine grandchildren.
      