
        Emilio Pucci, the Italian fashion designer whose brilliantly colored prints were an icon of the 1960's, died Sunday morning in a nursing home in Florence. He was 78 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, said Pier Gabriele Bulli, director of the home.
        Mr. Pucci, who was the Marchese di Barsento, was born in Naples, into an aristocratic Italian family. He lived and worked in the Pucci Palace in Florence.
        An enthusiastic sportsman who was on the Italian Olympic ski team in 1932, he also raced cars and excelled in swimming, tennis and fencing. His emergence as a fashion designer happened somewhat accidentally.
        He was an Italian bomber pilot in World War II and he continued in the air force after the war, holding the rank of captain. On leave in Switzerland in 1947, he was spotted on the ski slopes by Toni Frissel, a photographer, who was impressed by the snugness of his ski garb, which was custom made of stretch fabrics. Forefront of Italian Fashion
        When photographs of Mr. Pucci in his skisuit appeared in Harper's Bazaar, he was besieged by American manufacturers who wanted to produce it. He decided instead to market the ski clothes himself. They were among the first styles made of stretch fabrics, and Lord & Taylor was among the first to promote them.
        By 1950, Mr. Pucci was at the forefront of the fledgling Italian fashion industry. His forte in the beginning was sports clothes, but he soon moved into other fashions, including brilliantly patterned silk scarves. Encouraged by Stanley Marcus, one of the owners of Neiman-Marcus, he began making blouses and then dresses of the patterned material.
        By the 1960's, a dress in the distinctively patterned Pucci print, which used as many as 16 colors in a single design, was the uniform of fashionable women everywhere in the world. Elizabeth Taylor, Lauren Bacall, Gina Lollobrigida and Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis were some of the women photographed in Pucci designs. An Interest in Politics
        Two years ago there was a worldwide revival of the Pucci fashion. Madonna, Monica Seles and Christie Brinkley are some of the women who have recently stopped into the Pucci boutique at 24 East 64th Steet in Manhattan, said Elizabeth Penberthy, the manager.
        "Few designers peak twice in fashion," Ms. Penberthy said. "Mr. Pucci was delighted to have this happen to him."
        At the top of his career, the designer did not stop at clothes. His distinctive prints, a mixture of geometric and art nouveau designs, appeared in towels, sheets, wall coverings, jewelry, glasses, airline uniforms, bath products and underwear. His clothes were sold widely throughout the Orient, Europe, the Caribbean and the United States.
        In addition to his work in fashion, Mr. Pucci was concerned with politics. He served two terms in the Italian Chamber of Deputies in the 1950's.
        After spending two years at the University of Milan in Italy, Mr. Pucci attended the University of Georgia in Athens, Ga., and received a master's degree in social science at Reed College, Portland, Ore., in 1939. He held a doctorate in political science from the University of Florence.
        He is survived by his wife, Cristina; his son, Alessandro and daughter, Laudomia, who will continue the business, and his brother, Puccio, and sister, Nicoletta, all of Florence.
      