
        Rabbi Alexander M. Shapiro, a national spokesman for Conservative Judaism who was a leader of the successful effort to ordain women as Conservative rabbis and worked to reconcile differences between the major branches of Judaism, died on Thursday at Suburban General Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 63.
        He died of heart failure, said his son-in-law, Rabbi David Ackerman.
        Rabbi Shapiro, who lived in South Orange, N.J., was the spiritual leader for the last 20 years at the Oheb Shalom Congregation in South Orange. For 10 years before that he served as rabbi of Temple Beth Tikvah in Erdenheim, Pa.
        Rabbi Shapiro rose to national prominence in 1985 after he was elected president of the Rabbinical Assembly, the organization of 1,000 Conservative rabbis around the world. In February of that year, after years of supporting equal rights for women in the pulpit, he welcomed Amy Eilberg, a student at the Jewish Theological Seminary, into the rabbinic organization. She became the first woman to serve as a rabbi in the Conservative movement.
        The Reform and Reconstructionist movements also ordain women. The Orthodox do not.
        The admission of Rabbi Eilberg followed a change in the organization's constitution that was passed by a vote of 636 to 267. "The vote," Rabbi Shapiro said at the time, "demonstrates that we accept the notion that all human beings are created in the image of God and have an equal right to preach and teach the word of God."
        During his tenure as president of the rabbinical organization, Rabbi Shapiro also arranged for a rare exchange with his Orthodox counterpart, the president of the Rabbinical Council of America. The head of the Orthodox group, Rabbi Louis Bernstein, appeared before a convention of the Conservative group and Rabbi Shapiro appeared before a convention of the Orthodox group. It was the first and last time such an exchange took place.
        Rabbi Shapiro, who was born in Brooklyn, was ordained at the Jewish Theological Seminary in 1955. In 1970, he received a doctorate in philosophy from Dropsie University.
        He published articles in numerous periodicals, and taught at Temple University, at the University of the Negev in Beersheba, Israel, and at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth; his mother, Gertrude, of Brooklyn; three daughters, Meira Shapiro Saks of Bensalem, Pa., Adina, of Manhattan, and Naomi, of Blue Bell, Pa.; a son, Avi, of Rockville, Md., and six grandchildren.
      