
        Morton Stavis, a civil liberties lawyer and a founder of the Center for Constitutional Rights, died yesterday at South Coast Hospital in Laguna Beach, Calif., where he was visiting. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of head injuries from a fall, his family said.
        Mr. Stavis helped found the center, a national nonprofit organization, and was its president since 1976.
        Among the causes he championed were school integration, voting rights for blacks, anti-war efforts, opposition to capital punishment and sanctuary for illegal aliens who are political refugees.
        He was counsel to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., represented William M. Kunstler in appealing contempt charges from the Chicago Seven trial and defended Philip and Daniel Berrigan for war protests.
        Mr. Stavis led the legal team that froze the American assets of Ferdinand E. Marcos, the deposed Philippine dictator. He won freedom for George Merritt, who was convicted three times and imprisoned 10 years for the murder of a New Jersey police officer.
        In a major search and seizure case, Mr. Stavis won a $1.6 million award in 1983 against a Kentucky district attorney and Senator John L. McClellan, chairman of the Senate subcommittee on investigations, for their roles in investigating a pair of anti-poverty workers on sedition charges. Negotiated Strike Settlement
        Mr. Stavis was born in Manhattan as Moses Stavisky. After graduating from City College at 18, he earned a law degree at Columbia.
        In the Roosevelt Administration, he worked as a lawyer for the Social Security Board in Washington and as an assistant to Senator Robert F. Wagner of New York.
        For 35 years he was a labor and general practice lawyer in New Jersey. He was a lead negotiator for 2,100 workers in a bitter 23-week strike at the Singer Company in 1949. Representing the Progressive Party in 1948, he won court rulings overturning bans against sound trucks in Trenton and New Brunswick.
        His civil liberties efforts expanded in the 1960's, when he was the national coordinator of 168 lawyers collecting evidence of the exclusion of black voters in a challenge to the election of five white Mississippi Congressmen in 1964. The efforts helped pave the way for the passage of the landmark 1965 Federal Voting Rights Act.
        As an outgrowth, Mr. Stavis, Mr. Kunstler, Benjamin Smith and Arthur Kinoy formed the center in 1966. In 1983 Mr. Stavis closed his private practice to become a full-time volunteer there.
        He won awards from the American Civil Liberties Union, American Immigration Lawyers Association and President Corazon Aquino of the Philippines. He was also active in the American Jewish Congress, Givat Haviva and other Jewish causes.
        Surviving are his wife of 53 years, the former Esther Auerbach; three sons, Benedict, of Bala Cynwyd, Pa., George, of St. Davids, Pa., and Robert, of Bryn Mawr, Pa.; two sisters, Martha Bernstein of Miami, and Teresa Gross of Long Boat Key, Fla., and seven grandchildren.
      