
        Steven J. Ross, who built a family funeral parlor business into Time Warner Inc., the world's largest media and entertainment company, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 65 years old.
        His death was caused by complications arising from his prostate cancer, from which he had suffered for several years, a company spokesman said.
        A debonair entrepreneur with an eye for new businesses and a gift for finding talented people to run them, Mr. Ross moved before many of his competitors to bet heavily on the worldwide potential of cable television, records and videos. "If you're not a risk-taker," he once said, "you should get the hell out of business." Creating a Colossus
        Under his leadership, Warner Communications grew from a troubled movie studio into a huge entertainment business even before Mr. Ross negotiated a $14 billion deal with Time Inc. in 1989. And that merger, the last big deal of the 1980's, created Time Warner, whose properties include Time, People and Sports Illustrated magazines; the Warner Brothers studio in Hollywood; the Warner, Atlantic, Elektra and Asylum record companies; Warner Books; DC Comics; Home Box Office and some of the country's largest cable television systems.
        Mr. Ross will be replaced by Gerald M. Levin, his co-chief executive, whose principal challenge may be a corporate board that is not a unified family.  [ Page D1. ]
        Emotionally rather than intellectually driven, Mr. Ross always insisted there was no basic difference between the funeral parlor business and the entertainment world. Both, he said, were "people businesses," in which the key was the ability to empathize.
        "You learn to say, 'Hey Charlie, I don't want to talk business today,' or, 'Susie, I don't want to talk business today, tell me what your problem is,' " he once said. "That is the important thing, that is the guts of the business, whether in Hollywood or a funeral parlor."
        While Mr. Ross conceived of the Time Warner merger as the culmination of a rags-to-riches career, it also brought him a great deal of grief. The company has had a rocky time financially, and to many critics of American corporate practices, Mr. Ross's huge compensation -- in 1990, he received $78.2 million in salary and bonuses -- became a symbol of extravagant executive pay and exploited shareholders.
        Mr. Ross was deeply angered by such criticism, contending the payments he received were "my reward for 30 years' work at Warner."
        An impeccably tailored bon vivant who liked to surround himself with stars, Mr. Ross and his freewheeling and lavish style of management came under fire on other fronts.
        In December 1982, for instance, Warner Communications suffered a major reversal and lost more than $1 billion when its Atari video games division collapsed almost overnight, faced with vigorous competition from other video games. Mr. Ross, it seems, had granted such independence to Atari's managers that he was caught unaware by the crash.
        Moreover, he remained the subject of persistent innuendo involving a case in which two senior Warner executives, close friends of Mr. Ross, were convicted for their part in a racketeering scheme involving a mob-connected theater in Tarrytown, N.Y., a suburb of New York City.
        No charges were brought against Mr. Ross, who repeatedly proclaimed his innocence and was hurt that speculation continued to dog him. But as chief executive of Warner, he clearly should have known what was going on.
        While Mr. Ross lived well, maintaining an apartment on Park Avenue and a home in East Hampton, L.I., and his social life revolved around the likes of Barbra Streisand, Dustin Hoffman, Steven Spielberg and Chevy Chase, a nagging insecurity always seemed to mark him. This uneasiness, many friends and associates believed, caused him to crave affection from his employees in a way that sometimes led to serious misjudgments.
        "Steve delegates a lot," his friend Felix G. Rohatyn, the financier with Lazard Freres & Company, once said. "That is his strength in dealing with talent and his weakness in dealing with adversity." Success Built On Common Sense
        Mr. Ross's gift for making money and building companies was eminently straightforward. Self-educated, he had no time for business manuals, relying on a gift for identifying good managers, a talent with numbers and a patient ability to stake out the best deal.
        "You know what business is about?" he liked to say. "Common sense. Basic common sense and basic faith in people."
        His management style was unusually generous. He rewarded both employees and stars lavishly. "Incentive compensation," he once said, "is the most important thing in business." The rewards often brought results, with Warner showing consistent growth through most of Mr. Ross's stewardship and benefiting from his sure instinct for popular taste.
        He gambled on the music video channel MTV and on the Nickelodeon cable service of children's programming when most other corporate leaders thought cable was just a piece of thick wire. He knew how to let talented movie executives get on with their business, insuring that Warner was an unusual haven of stability in Hollywood while it turned out hits including "All the President's Men," "Woodstock," "Batman," "Driving Miss Daisy" and "J.F.K."
        At the end of his life, Mr. Ross was consumed with taking global entertainment and news a step further. He had a vision of the television set as a computer-cum-entertainment box, offering hundreds of cable channels and services ranging from banking to ballot-casting, that consumers could choose among. He was particularly proud of a 150-channel cable system that Time Warner began installing in parts of New York City in late 1991. Lessons Learned In a Poor Home
        Born Steven Jay Rechnitz in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn on April 5, 1927, the son of Jewish immigrants, Mr. Ross grew up in poverty. His father lost his money in the Depression and in 1932, struggling to find work, changed the family name to Ross.
        But the family continued to struggle, and when Steven Ross was a teen-ager he was summoned to his father's deathbed to learn that his sole inheritance consisted of this advice: There are those who work all day; those who dream all day, and those who spend an hour dreaming before setting to work to fulfill those dreams.
        "Go into the third category," his father said, "because there's virtually no competition."
        This tale, which Mr. Ross often repeated to friends, assumed a central place in his life. "Dreamer," "visionary" and "risk-taker" were how Mr. Ross liked to describe himself -- seeking a contrast with the nuts-and-bolts manager obsessed with the short term whom Mr. Ross saw as the bane of American business.
        But while Mr. Ross liked to compare himself to wealthy entrepreneur-executives like Steven Jobs, who helped found Apple Computer Inc., and William H. Gates, who became a billionaire after starting the Microsoft Corporation, now the nation's largest software company, Mr. Ross never owned more than 1 percent of Warner. He spared himself entrepreneurial risk.
        Instead, he obtained increasingly elaborate employment contracts, filled with stock option plans, bonuses and other intricate financial devices designed to provide great reward without corresponding risk. And that seemed to lie at the heart of the outcry about Mr. Ross's compensation in the early 1990's: Founders and dreamers make their money in a different way than Mr. Ross did.
        Mr. Ross got his grounding in money-making at an early age. By the time he was 8, he was carrying people's food home from the supermarkets on Saturdays for a nickel or collecting their laundry. He would borrow money from his father, walk 20 blocks to a supermarket, buy discounted cigarettes by the carton and sell them to his father by the pack for a profit.
        After two years at Paul Smith's College, a small school near Saranac Lake in upstate New York, and a brief stint in the Navy, Mr. Ross went to work for an uncle in the garment district of Manhattan. A Family Business Grows and Grows
        At the age of 26, he married Carol Rosenthal, the first of his three wives. Her father, Edward, owned a successful funeral parlor in Manhattan called the Riverside, and Mr. Ross began to show his talents.
        His wife's uncle, a partner of Mr. Rosenthal, provided limousines for funeral services. Noting that the limousines were not being used at night, Mr. Ross arranged for a large limousine service to hire the cars in the evening. The limousine company became instantly profitable.
        Mr. Ross worked full time at the funeral parlor, where his charming ways with grieving families were well received. But he had an appetite for new ventures, and in the late 1950's started Abbey Rent a Car with a bank loan. He later merged it with the Kinney garage business. An office-cleaning business owned by a cousin of Mr. Rosenthal and the funeral-parlor business were added to Kinney, and the company was taken public in 1962. Its market valuation was $12.5 million; its assets a hodgepodge.
        Kinney eventually grew into Warner, a vast entertainment company with scant apparent link to the businesses with which Kinney started. But there were similarities. For all its size and diversity, Warner remained very much a family enterprise, owned and run by a close-knit group of scrappy entrepreneurs. It was short on structure and long on trust and freewheeling ambition. "You learn something, you decide, you do it, boom," was Mr. Ross's credo at the time.
        The leap into entertainment came in 1969, when Kinney paid $400 million for the ailing Warner-Seven Arts film studio and record business, and two years later renamed itself Warner Communications.
        There, in the entertainment business, Mr. Ross found his element. He introduced incentive-based compensation, put good people in place and let them get on with it. In the record business, for example, he relied on two executives, Ahmet Ertegun and Robert J. Morgado, to build a global record group. By 1991, the company's record sales had grown to more than $3 billion, producing operating profits of $550 million.
        In Hollywood, he commanded unusual loyalty by paying very well and staying with people through good times and bad. Robert A. Daly, chief executive of the Warner Brothers studio for more than a decade, once said, "We'll kill for the company because we're made to feel like principals, not employees."  Finding a Niche On Television
        Because of Mr. Ross, Warner bought cable properties in 1971. While others feared the dominance of the Big Three television networks, Mr. Ross saw the possibilities of what came to be known as narrowcasting -- using cable television to provide specialized services to specific audiences, as most radio stations do.
        This vision led to MTV: Music Television, and Nickelodeon, two successful ventures that Warner later sold. Now the industry has channels that specialize in weather, sports, courtroom coverage and more.
        As Warner grew, lavishness became a company trademark. Generous gifts were doled out to employees at Thanksgiving and Christmas. If an executive wanted a face lift, the company paid. Stars were invited to corporate holiday homes in Acapulco, Mexico, and Aspen, Colo. Invitations were thrown around to championship fights in Las Vegas, Nev., and Warner's guests traveled on one of the company's half a dozen planes.
        On the flights, Mr. Ross would dole out candies, entertain stars and employees with card tricks, and play backgammon and dominoes. In some ways, he was a sugar-daddy, in others almost a child in the way he relished the pleasures available to him. Divorces, Illness And Stumbles
        But while he built an extended family at Warner, his personal life suffered. In 1977, a young Warner executive whom friends say Mr. Ross loved as a son, Kenny Rosen, suffered irreversible brain damage in a horse-riding accident. A year later, Mr. Ross and his wife, Carol, divorced.
        In 1980, Mr. Ross suffered a serious heart attack. That same year he married Amanda Burden, the daughter of Barbara (Babe) Paley and stepdaughter of William S. Paley, the chairman of CBS. The marriage lasted 16 months and ended in a difficult divorce.
        The corporate front was also troubled. Because Warner stock plunged after Atari collapsed, the company was vulnerable to raiders. In late 1983, Rupert Murdoch tried to buy Warner, and Mr. Ross was able to beat him back only by selling 20 percent of Warner to Chris-Craft Industries, a conglomerate in New York headed by a no-nonsense investor named Herbert J. Siegel.
        But the deal proved disastrous.
        Mr. Ross and Mr. Siegel dueled over Mr. Ross's style and over what businesses Warner should sell to extract itself from the Atari mess. When Time Inc. bought Warner in 1989, Mr. Siegel cashed in, realizing a profit of more than $1 billion on his five-year investment. Although Mr. Seigel disliked Mr. Ross, he thus joined the many shareholders who, over the decades at Warner, benefited from Mr. Ross's business acumen.
        Even by the standards of a man who had made many deals, the Time-Warner merger was extraordinary.
        The idea of Mr. Ross and his counterpart at Time, J. Richard Munro, was simple and compelling: to assemble the largest media and entertainment company in the world.
        At first glance, the plan looked wonderful. Warner had no magazines; Time Inc., founded by Henry R. Luce, had People, Sports Illustrated and Time itself, as well as 21 others. Time Inc. had no music; Warner had the world's largest record business. The Warner Brothers Studio and Warner's Lorimar television production company would fit well with Time's HBO, providing some of its shows.
        But from the outset things went wrong. Mr. Ross and Nicholas J. Nicholas Jr., Mr. Munro's successor at Time Inc., simply did not get along. Just as it had irritated Mr. Siegel, the garrulous, free-wheeling style of Mr. Ross grated on the buttoned-down, precise Mr. Nicholas.
        In financial terms, the deal was vitiated from the outset. Conceived as a debt-free merger, the deal had to be altered after Paramount Communications Inc. of New York tried to buy Time for an attractive $200 a share. To avoid putting the offer to a shareholder vote, Time and Warner executives took a different approach to joining forces, and Time ended up buying Warner for $14 billion, taking on more than $11 billion in debt.
        The consequences were dire. Time Warner's stock plunged, and many Time shareholders were deeply angry that they had been denied the opportunity to sell their shares to Paramount at a price that the stock of the merged company has never come close to.  Highly visible, highly paid, Mr. Ross bore the brunt of the anger.
        Only in the last year of Mr. Ross's life did the uneasy merger seem to be working more smoothly.
        Tired of several years of tension between Mr. Ross and Mr. Nicholas, when Mr. Ross became too ill to work, Time Warner's board forced out Mr. Nicholas and turned to Mr. Levin, a Time executive who had been a major architect of the merger. Mr. Levin had grown steadily closer to the Warner side of the company, and in early 1992 was designated the heir-apparent.
        Mr. Ross is survived by his wife, Courtney Sale Ross, whom he married in 1982, and their daughter, Nicole, as well as two children, Toni and Mark, from his first marriage.
        The company said funeral services would be private and a memorial service would be held in January for family and friends.
        Correction:  December 22, 1992, Tuesday
        A chart yesterday with the continuation of a front-page obituary about Steven J. Ross, chairman of Time Warner Inc., misstated the ownership of Newsweek magazine. It is owned by the Washington Post Company.
      