
        William E. Hegarty, a lawyer who played a part in winning the landmark court case permitting publication of the Pentagon Papers, died yesterday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 66.
        He had pneumonia and died of heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Hegarty, who lived in Greenwich, had a 37-year career at the law firm of Cahill Gordon & Reindel in Manhattan. He retired in 1987 as a senior partner of the firm.
        He was best known for his cross-examination of Government officials in the trial of the Nixon Administration's suit in 1971 to prevent The New York Times from publishing the Pentagon Papers, a Defense Department study of how the United States became involved in combat operations in Vietnam.
        Floyd Abrams, who helped lead the Times's defense, said yesterday: "His cross-examination of military and Defense and State Department witnesses exposed the Government's claim as being based on avoiding embarrassment rather then on genuine harm to national security. Without any prior information about what the Government would claim, and in the enormous glare of national publicity, he decimated the witnesses. He was the consummate litigator." Classic Cross-Examination
        The cross-examination, which Mr. Hegarty conducted at the age of 45, is often cited as a classic by law professors.
        The Times won the initial ruling. Prof. Alexander M. Bickel of Yale defended The Times in the Government's appeal to the United States Supreme Court. The Court, a 6-to-3 vote on June 30, 1971, upheld the Times's right to publish the documents under the protection of the First Amendment, creating a precedent in press freedom on the issue of prior restraint.
        Later in his career Mr. Hegarty was co-executor of the Florence Gould estate, which included 200 paintings by Impressionist painters like Van Gogh, Cezanne, Degas and Monet. He was also a director of the Florence Gould Foundation, fostering French-American relations, for which France honored him.
        In retirement he did pro bono work as counsel to the Municipal Art Society. He also helped the Greenwich environmental agency and was a director of the Mianus Gorge Preserve, the Mianus River Watershed Council, the Greenwich Historical Society and the New York Legal Aid Society.
        He was born in Manhattan and grew up in Morristown, N.J., where his father, William, was a judge. In World War II he served in the Navy. He graduated from Princeton and Yale Law School.
        Surviving are his wife of 42 years, the former Barbara M. Fischer; three daughters, Katharine H. Bouman of Binghamton, N.Y., Mary H. Colombo of Old Greenwich and Amanda Hegarty of Cambridge, Mass.; a son, William E. Hegarty Jr. of Old Greenwich, and six grandchildren.
      