
        David Hare, a sculptor, painter and photographer who was a prominent figure among the first generation of New York School artists, died on Monday in Jackson Hole, Wyo. He was 75 years old and lived in Victor, Idaho.
        He died after an emergency operation for an aortic aneurysm, said his family.
        Mr. Hare, an artist of eclectic and restless imagination, devoted increasing attention to painting in his later years. But it is for his early welded-metal abstract sculptures, which were deeply influenced by European Surrealism, that he remains best known and for which he is most admired. "Hare stands second to no sculptor of his generation, unless it be David Smith, in potential talent," wrote the critic Clement Greenberg in 1946.
        Mr. Hare was born on March 10, 1917, in New York City. His father was Meredith Hare, a lawyer, and his mother was Elizabeth Sage Goodwin, an art collector, a backer of the 1913 Armory Show and a friend of such artists as Brancusi, Walt Kuhn and Marcel Duchamp. (Her brother-in-law was Philip Goodwin, a trustee and the original architect of the Museum of Modern Art.) Taking Portrait Photographs
        In the 1920's, the family moved to Santa Fe, N.M., and then to Colorado Springs, where Mr. Hare's mother helped to found the Fountain Valley School, a prep school Mr. Hare attended.
        After high school, he married, moved to Roxbury, Conn., and began working as a color photographer. On assignment during the late 1930's for the American Museum of Natural History, he took portrait photographs of Hopi, Navajo and Zuni Indians in the Southwest. In Roxbury, he met such artists as Alexander Calder and Arshile Gorky, who were his neighbors, as well as Yves Tanguy, who was married to Mr. Hare's cousin Kay Sage, and the art dealer Julian Levy, at whose gallery Mr. Hare exhibited during the early 1940's.
        He was particularly inspired by some of the leading European Surrealists who had come to the United States before and during World War II, not only Gorky and Tanguy, but also Matta, Max Ernst, Andre Breton and Andre Masson. With Breton, Ernst and Duchamp, he edited the Surrealist magazine, VVV, and he collected American manuscripts for Jean-Paul Sartre's Paris publication, Le Temps Moderne. He became a frequent contributor to literary journals and art magazines. 'I Was Good With My Hands'
        In the early 1940's, Mr. Hare took up sculpture. He taught himself, something of which he was always proud. "I was good with my hands," he once said, "but I chose art, too, for the independence of it." He soon began exhibiting at leading New York venues for advanced American art, like the Levy gallery, Peggy Guggenheim's Art of this Century and the Samuel Kootz Gallery, and his energetic, symbolically complex arrangements of abstract forms won him a reputation as one of the most promising sculptors of his generation.
        In the late 1950's, Mr. Hare turned to painting, devoting himself to the sort of mythological and legendary subjects that were in keeping with the interests of the Surrealists and Abstract Expressionists. He maintained these interests even when much of the art world had gone in other directions. In 1977, the Guggenheim Museum exhibited paintings, drawings and sculptures of the last 10 years by him that evoked the Greek God Cronus, who had dethroned his father and was himself dethroned by Zeus, his son.
        "This is not the sort of theme that American artists are nowadays much inclined to explore," observed Hilton Kramer in his review of the show in The New York Times.
        Over the years, he taught at the Maryland Institute of Art in Baltimore, from which he received an honorary doctorate, and at the New York Studio School. He was a visiting artist at various institutions, including the Skowhegan School of Arts and Design. His works were exhibited widely in Europe and the United States and collected by many major museums.
        In 1985, Mr. Hare moved to Victor, building a studio in the hayloft of a converted barn. His first three marriages ended in divorce. In 1991, he married Therry Frey.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his sons, Merlin Hare, a pilot in Victor, and Morgan Browne Hare, an architect in Manhattan, and two brothers, Sage Goodwin, an artist in Avon, Conn., and John Goodwin, a poet in New York City and Saba, in the Netherlands Antilles.
      