
        Robert E. Marshak, a former president of the City College of New York and an expert on theoretical physics, died Wednesday while vacationing with his family in Cancun, Mexico. He was 76 and lived in Blacksburg, Va.
        Professor Marshak and his wife, Ruth, and their family had gathered in Cancun to celebrate the couple's 50th wedding anniversary.
        Rita Rodin, a spokeswoman for City College, said Professor Marshak was swimming far from the beach when he suddenly appeared to be having difficulty. His daughter, Ann, went to his rescue, but he could not be revived.
        Professor Marshak was born in the Bronx. In 1970, at the age of 54, he left a faculty post at the University of Rochester to accept the presidency of City College and remained president until 1979.
        He arrived at the college amid a turbulent debate over the college's future and its attempts to increase the number of black and Puerto Rican students at its campus in Harlem.
        During the 1970's the college was governed by Boards of Higher Education that changed three times and was deeply hurt by New York City's fiscal crisis, which forced the college to give up both its cherished free-tuition policy and its new open-admissions program.
        Professor Marshak was often asked why he had taken on so daunting a task. He answered with the same words at the end of his tenure as he had at the beginning: "This college was founded to help the socially disadvantaged and that's what I wanted to do."
        Professor Marshak was a Distinguished Professor of Physics emeritus at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in Blacksburg. He joined the faculty there after he left City College.  Prominent in Physics
        Recently the American Association for the Advancement of Science named him as the first recipient of a new prize to be given for contributing to international scientific cooperation.
        The prize was to be awarded to him at the association's meeting in Boston in February.
        He had also just completed the latest of his many books, "Conceptual Foundation of Modern Particle Physics," which is to be published next year by World Scientific publishers.
        Professor Marshak's brilliance in physics became apparent early in his life.
        He graduated from high school at 15 and from Columbia College at 20 and gained attention as a 22-year-old graduate student at Cornell University in 1938 when he worked out, with Professor Hans Bethe, the process by which stars generate heat, long a major scientific mystery.
        Having obtained his doctorate that same year, he joined the faculty at Rochester, then took a leave of absence to work with the Government's atomic-bomb-development project. During the last years of the war, he was the chief deputy in theoretical physics at the Los Alamos, N.M., laboratory under J. Robert Oppenheimer.
        In 1947 he won wide scientific acclaim as the first to advance the theory that there are two types of subatomic particles or mesons, heavy and light.
        Professor Marshak won numerous awards and honors during his career, including three Guggenheim Fellowships. He was president of the American Physical Society from 1982 to 1983.
        In 1984, he was awarded the Humboldt Award of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation of West Germany, which carried with it a visiting research appointment at the Max Planck Institute for Physics and Astrophysics in Munich.
        In addition to his wife and daughter, Professor Marshak is survived by a son, Stephen of Champaign, Ill., and four grandchildren.
      