
        Thomas W. (Teddy) Gleason, who as president of the International Longshoremen's Association for 24 years held an iron grip on the docks of both the Atlantic and Gulf coasts, only to see that grip pried open by containerized shipping, died on Thursday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 92.
        Mr. Gleason, who lived in Manhattan, was in the hospital's coronary care unit when he died. But a hospital spokeswoman, Gisele Roberge, could not provide the exact cause of death.
        A fireplug of a man at five feet, six inches and 180 pounds, Mr. Gleason was alternately described during his heyday as "hard as nails" and "smooth as silk." He could be gracious, pleasant and courteous or could uncork a torrent of language suitable for the waterfront.
        He always felt that his greatest achievement as president of the I.L.A. was the guaranteed annual income he won for union members, which allowed hundreds of them to collect as much as $32,000 a year for doing no work after containerization eliminated their jobs.  'Everything We Fought For'
        When he went to work alongside his father in 1915, Mr. Gleason was paid 35 cents an hour. By 1985, members of the I.L.A. were making a minimum of $17 an hour. "We got everything we fought for," Mr. Gleason said at the time of his retirement in 1987.
        In 1915, Mr. Gleason walked down Charles Street, where the family lived in a succession of cold-water flats, to sling bales on the docks alongside his father. The oldest of 13 children, Mr. Gleason left school after the seventh grade and later said he passed up a high school scholarship to help support his family. He was one of the youngest full-fledged dockworkers in New York.
        The son and grandson of longshoremen, he was one of the last of a generation of trade unionists, including the Reuther brothers in the automobile industry and James Hoffa of the teamsters, who developed their organizing and political skills during the bitter labor conflicts of the 1920's and 1930's.
        For a youth on the piers of Manhattan, the labor scene was particularly violent in those times. Some dockworkers were ex-convicts; others would become convicts. Murder and mayhem were routine as warring factions fought for control of the piers and access to their lucrative cargoes.
        Corruption was a way of life and remained so long after labor and management had come to terms or at least truces almost everywhere else. Elia Kazan's film about corruption on the New York piers, "On the Waterfront," was considered a contemporary portrayal when it was made in 1954.  'Just a Gang of Rebels'
        In 1919, Mr. Gleason joined the I.L.A., which was then, he said, "just a gang of rebels." Over the years he worked as a checker, a billing clerk, longshoreman, winch driver, truck loader and timekeeper. By 1932, he had advanced to dock superintendent.
        That year, in the depths of the Depression, he was blacklisted by the stevedoring companies and the steamship lines because of his union activities. To support his family, he took a job pushing a hand truck in a sugar factory during the day and sold hot dogs at Coney Island at night.
        With the coming of the New Deal and the legalization of union activity on the docks, Mr. Gleason returned to both his trade and his union activities. Soon he was president and business agent of Checkers Local 1346 of the I.L.A. Later, the local merged with three others to form Local 1, with Mr. Gleason as president.
        In 1953, the I.L.A. was expelled from the American Federation of Labor over corruption. The president, Joseph P. Ryan, resigned and Capt. William Bradley, with Mr. Gleason's support, was elected president. Mr. Gleason was elected general organizer. In 1961, he became executive vice president and two years later was elected president after reportedly pressuring Captain Bradley to resign.
        Mr. Gleason served six consecutive four-year terms as president of the I.L.A., retiring in July 1987. His Stubborn Side
        The guaranteed annual income he negotiated, which took effect in 1964, insures that all union members in good standing are paid whether they work or not. Both the shipping industry and the union prefer the admittedly costly guaranteed income to the old shape-up when dock work was day labor, when seven to 10 men would bid for each job each morning and who got the job was often determined by kickbacks and violence.
        The world saw Mr. Gleason's stubborn side when in 1963 he opposed the Kennedy Administration's proposal to sell surplus wheat to the Soviet Union. He relented when the Government agreed that half of the grain ships would be American.
        When the Johnson Administration reneged on that agreement, Mr. Gleason began a dockworkers' boycott of the Soviet-bound wheat. He called it off after eight days, but not before Luther H. Hodges, then Secretary of Commerce, accused the I.L.A. of trying to make foreign policy.
        During the Johnson Administration, Mr. Gleason served on the President's Maritime Advisory Committee. During the Vietnam War, he made four trips to Saigon to help set up a program to relieve port congestion. Later, he performed similar duties at Mombasa in Kenya.
        If Mr. Gleason seemed to have changed little since the days he traveled in a bullet-proof car and angered Presidents, by the time of his retirement the union was just a shadow of what it once was. It still represented dockworkers along the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts, but its membership -- around 110,000 -- was less than half of the 250,000 it had been before automation.
        Mr. Gleason was a lifelong supporter of Irish-American causes. In 1984, he was named grand marshal of the St. Patrick's Day parade in New York in recognition of his years of support for the unification of Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic.
        Mr. Gleason held an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Molloy College in Rockville Centre, L.I.
        Mr. Gleason's wife, Emma, died in 1960. He is survived by three sons, Thomas Jr., John and Robert, 15 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      