
        John G. Kemeny, a distinguished mathematician and computer pioneer who was president of Dartmouth College for more than a decade, died yesterday at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 66 and lived in the town of Etna, near the Dartmouth campus.
        Alex Huppe, a spokesman for the college, said the cause of death was apparently a heart attack.
        Dr. Kemeny was a forceful and popular leader who guided a tradition-cherishing Ivy League institution through a series of profound changes, including the admission of women in 1972.
        Dr. Kemeny was also appointed by President Jimmy Carter to head the Federal commission that investigated the nuclear accident at the Three Mile Island power plant in Pennsylvania in 1979. The commission criticized Federal regulators and the nuclear power industry for lax safety standards.  A Doctorate at 23
        John George Kemeny was born in Hungary on May 31, 1926, and immigrated to the United States with his parents in 1940.
        Widely praised by his colleagues for both the depth and the breadth of his intellect, Dr. Kemeny was selected a year after his graduation from Princeton University to be a research assistant to Albert Einstein, and he passed the first milestones of his academic career while still remarkably young. He earned a doctorate in mathematics from Princeton at 23, was made a full professor of mathematics at Dartmouth at 27, was appointed chairman of the mathematics department there at 29 and was named president of Dartmouth at 43.
        He served as president for 11 years, until 1981, when he resigned to return to teaching. But his most lasting contribution may have been as co-inventor of the Basic computer language, one of the most widely used in the world.  Basic (for Beginner's All-Purpose Symbolic Instruction Code) provided the intellectual building blocks for many later forms of software and is still a major tool in teaching computer programming.
        "John Kemeny had a remarkably astute intuition," said Thomas Kurtz, a professor of mathematics at Dartmouth with whom Mr. Kemeny created Basic in 1964. "He knew that to we had to create a new language."  Accessible to Students
        Dr. Kemeny saw to it that Dartmouth's computing center was made accessible to students and faculty via telephone hook-up to terminals in their offices and other areas, Mr. Kurtz said.
        As president of Dartmouth, Dr. Kemeny became popular by making himself accessible to students. He also restructured the college's academic schedule to a trimester system, which offered students the flexibility to pursue projects away from campus and allowed the college to make best use of dormitories and teaching centers.
        To combat Dartmouth's reputation for racial and social exclusivity, Dr. Kemeny encouraged efforts to recruit students from minorities. His decision to abandon the Indian as college mascot, which he called outdated and offensive, led to protests from some alumni. Warned of Intolerance
        Dr. Kemeny was critical of the conservative wave that grew at the college at the end of his tenure as president and that was epitomized by The Dartmouth Review, whose articles provoked turmoil on campus and attracted attention from some of the nation's leading conservatives.
        Within this movement Dr. Kemeny detected the seeds of intolerance. On his final day as president, in June 1981, he warned his students in a commencement address against "a voice heard in many guises throughout history, which is the most dangerous voice you will ever hear."
        "It appeals to the basest of instincts in all of us, it appeals to human prejudice," he said. "It tries to divide us by setting whites against blacks, by setting Christians against Jews, by setting men against women. And if it succeeds in dividing us from our fellow beings, it will impose its evil will upon a fragmented society."
        After stepping down, he returned to Dartmouth's mathematics department, where he taught until 1990.  Studied Nuclear Accident
        In April 1979, President Carter appointed him chairman of the commission that looked into the causes of the accident at Three Mile Island. The commission issued a report in October 1979 that called for fundamental changes in the way nuclear reactors were constructed and managed.
        When he arrived with his family in New York City in 1940, Dr. Kemeny attended George Washington High School. Three years later he graduated at the top of his class. He became an American citizen in 1945 and served in the Army as an assistant in the theoretical division of the Los Alamos nuclear project in 1945-46.
        He is survived by his wife, Jean; two children, Jennifer Kemeny of Rowley, Mass., and Robert Kemeny of La Canada, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      