
        John F. Melby, a diplomat who was dismissed from the State Department during the McCarthy era and attributed his ouster to an affair with Lillian Hellman, died on Dec. 18 in Guelph, Ontario, Canada, where he lived. He was 79.
        He died of a heart attack, family members said.
        A book published in 1989 detailed how in the early 1950's, at the height of anti-Communist fervor in the United States, the State Department investigated whether Mr. Melby posed a security risk because of his relationship with the playwright, who was reputed to be a former member of the Communist Party.
        Ms. Hellman, who never publicly acknowledged belonging to the party, testified before the department's Loyalty Security Board on Mr. Melby's behalf, but he was dismissed in 1953. He attributed his ouster to his relationship with Ms. Hellman, according to a book on the subject, "The Cold War Romance of Lillian Hellman and John Melby," by Robert P. Newman (University of North Carolina Press, 1989).
        Mr. Melby, a native of Portland, Ore., graduated in 1934 from Illinois Wesleyan University. He received a master's degree and a doctorate in political science at the University of Chicago. In Moscow During War
        He joined the Foreign Service in 1937 and was assigned in 1943 to the American Embassy in Moscow. In 1945 he was sent to China, where the Nationalist Government was fighting Mao Zedong's army.
        When the Communists won control of China in 1949, Mr. Melby was recalled to Washington and assigned to write an analysis of the event. He produced the influential study known as the China White Paper. Two decades later, he recounted the era in "The Mandate of Heaven, a Record of a Civil War, China 1945-49" (Anchor Books, 1971).
        In 1950, he was sent on one of the first American missions to gauge the situation in Vietnam, where Communist insurgents were fighting French colonial forces.
        Ms. Hellman, who died in 1984, met Mr. Melby in 1944, when President Roosevelt sent her on a cultural good-will mission to Moscow. Their affair lasted several years, according to the book by Mr. Newman, a professor emeritus of the University of Pittsburgh, though Ms. Hellman also continued her established relationship with the writer Dashiell Hammett.
        From 1956 to 1964, Mr. Melby taught at the University of Pennsylvania, where he was the director of foreign studies. In 1966, he founded the department of political studies at the University of Guelph, and served as its first chairman. He retired in 1978.
        He is survived by his wife, Roxana Carrier Melby, of Guelph; a son, Everett K. Melby of El Paso, Tex.; a brother, Everett K. Melby of Varennes, Quebec, Canada; a sister, Mary LeVar of Bala Cynwyd, Penn.; and five grandchildren.
      