
        Kenneth J. Oberman, who managed the top-performing mutual fund in the United States last year, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 62 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
        He died of Hodgkin's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Oberman was senior vice president of the Oppenheimer Management Corporation in Manhattan and was the director of its Global Equity Investments. His responsibilities at his death included Oppenheimer's Global Fund, Global Bio-Tech Fund and Gold and Special Minerals Fund, with total assets exceeding $1.3 billion.
        The Bio-Tech Fund rose 121 percent last year, ranking first among 2,400 mutual funds. It lost part of that gain this year with the general slump in biotechnology stocks.
        Before last year's spectacular performance, Mr. Oberman turned in other strong results. While he managed Oppenheimer's AIM Fund in 1985, it rose 49 percent, ranking 10th among all funds. The Global Fund, which has more than $1 billion in assets, jumped 49 percent in 1985 and 46 percent in 1986.
        Mr. Oberman was a booster of biotechnology companies' potential for scientific discoveries and financial growth. "This is the stuff that dreams are made of," he once said. He was also an expert in international investments, especially in Europe.
        He worked at Oppenheimer for 12 years. Before that he was at Dreyfus for seven years, where he was the portfolio manager of the Dreyfus Fund and the Dreyfus Third Century Fund. Earlier, he was a vice president and research director at Delphi Management and at Model Roland.
        Mr. Oberman was born in Brooklyn.  He earned a bachelor's degree and a master's in economics from the University of California at Berkeley and another economics degree from the University of Stockholm.
        He served in the Army from 1951 to 1953 in Korea and Finland and reached the rank of sergeant.
        His wife of 24 years, Gretchen White, a lawyer, died in 1979.
        He is survived by two daughters, Claire M. of Brooklyn, and Anneli of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Theodore of Brooklyn, and a stepmother, Jeanne Oberman of Manhattan.
      