
        Lev Zetlin, an internationally known civil engineer who helped to design innovative buildings and was an expert on structural disasters, died yesterday at St. Mary's Hospital in Milwaukee. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla.
        He died of cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Dr. Zetlin worked with famed architects like Philip Johnson and I. M. Pei. Among his projects were the Roosevelt Island tramway and several structures at the 1964 World's Fair in Queens.
        Hired as engineering detectives, his consulting businesses investigated the 1981 collapse of the Hyatt Regency's suspended walkway in Kansas City, where 110 people perished, and the 1987 collapse of the L'Ambiance Plaza building in Bridgeport, Conn., which killed 28 construction workers. Specialized in Long Spans
        Dr. Zetlin invented a cable suspension roof, and his patents included prestressed concrete for airport runways. He also specialized in long bridges and in structures using concrete reinforced with steel cables under tension. Another innovation was the space-frame roof, which uses light-gauge metal to form large open-space enclosures with minimal interior supports. He applied the concept to build the first hangars housing jumbo jets.
        His best-known World's Fair project was the New York State Pavilion, called the Tent of Tomorrow, which still stands. Its multicolored plexiglass roof, measuring 250 by 320 feet and strung from cables attached to concrete towers, was the world's largest suspension roof. It weighed 2,000 tons, but conventional rigid construction would have weighed six times that.
        Mr. Johnson, the pavilion's architect, described Dr. Zetlin as "the best engineer I ever had -- exciting, imaginative and reliable, a combination that's hard to get."
        Among Dr. Zetlin's various projects as a designer or consultant were Disney's Epcot, Christo's paper bridge, an Alcoa bauxite plant in Jamaica, the St. Anselm Cathedral in Washington, the Harvard Science Center, a portable fiberglass theater, underground fuel tanks for NATO, the American Embassy in New Delhi and Montreal's Olympic Stadium.
        He also investigated the collapses of the Mianus River Bridge on Interstate 95 in Connecticut in 1983, the Hartford Civic Center roof in 1978 and the PATH station roof at Journal Square in Jersey City in 1983.
        Dr. Zetlin taught at Cornell University, Pratt Institute, Manhattan College, and the University of Virginia. He wrote articles and books and won numerous awards. He served on panels for the National Academy of Sciences and several Federal agencies.
        He was also the board chairman of Manhattan College and served on New York State's Council on the Arts.
        Born in Russia, Dr. Zetlin moved with his parents to Persia and then Palestine, where he graduated from the High Technical Institute in 1939. He fought in Israel's war of independence, was chief engineer of its air force and later helped design a nuclear power plant there.
        Coming to the United States to study at Cornell, he earned a master's degree in 1951 and a doctorate in 1953. He stayed and began working in New York.
        Surviving are his wife of 46 years, the former Eve Shmueli; two daughters, Alexandra Zetlin-Jones and Thalia Zetlin-Fishbein, both of Manhattan; a son, Michael S. of Roslyn, L.I., and five grandchildren.
      