
        The Rev. James C. Finlay, a Jesuit priest who was president of Fordham University from 1972 until his retirement in 1984, died on Saturday in Murray-Weigel Hall, an infirmary for retired Jesuits on the university's Rose Hill campus in the Bronx. He was 70 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, said a university spokeswoman, Carolyn Farrar.
        When he was awarded an honorary doctorate from New York University in 1984, he was lauded as "a priest, scholar, teacher, counselor" who "rebuilt and vitalized an urban university."
        Fordham opened in 1841 under the auspices of the Catholic Diocese of New York and was transferred to the Society of Jesus in 1846. Father Finlay entered the society in 1942 and was ordained a priest in 1954. Opportunities for Women
        At the age of 49, he was named 30th president of Fordham. As president, he emphasized the importance of providing career opportunities for women. .
        In an interview in 1975, he said that earlier, when he had begun to realize obstacles that women were facing, he became incensed. "Why should talented women be shunted off to routine jobs when young men were being recruited for managerial training programs?" he said. "The waste of talent was bad enough. The affront to their qualities as human beings was simply infuriating."
        Father Finlay's presidency was also marked by major new construction and renovating of existing structures on the Bronx campus and at the university's Lincoln Center campus in Manhattan. In addition, a third campus was opened, in Tarrytown, N.Y.
        One of his priorities as president was to strengthen Fordham's professional schools. During his tenure, work was begun on an $8 million addition to the university's law school on the Lincoln Center campus. He also brought in more full-time professors, putting an end to the school's reliance on a part-time faculty. Graduate of Loyola
        Born in Ireland, he came to New York as a boy, graduated from Regis High School in Manhattan, studied at Fordham for two years, earned a bachelor's degree from Loyola University in Chicago in 1945 and went on to do extensive theological studies and to earn a doctorate in political science from Duke University in 1960. That year, he joined Fordham's faculty. He rose to chairman of the political science department and then dean of Fordham's Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, from 1968 to 1972.
        After being succeeded as president by the Rev. Joseph A. O'Hare, a Jesuit priest who was a former editor of America magazine, Father Finlay was for several years a dean at another Jesuit institution, LeMoyne College in Syracuse.
        He is survived by a brother, Dermot Finlay of Ramsey, N.J.
      