
        Richard Joseph Hughes, who reshaped New Jersey's education system as Governor and then offered a new direction for the national right-to-die debate after becoming the state's Chief Justice, died yesterday. He was 83.
        Mr. Hughes died about 2 A.M. at his vacation home in Boca Raton, Fla. He had suffered a stroke earlier this fall and died of congestive heart failure, according to a statement released by his stepson, W. Michael Murphy, the Morris County Prosecutor.
        Mr. Hughes was the only man to serve New Jersey as both Governor and Chief Justice. In his two terms as chief executive, he expanded state services for the handicapped, improved education and created the state's county college system. Beyond the state's borders, his most-lasting legacy came in a much different arena: The court that he headed handed down a landmark decision that allowed the parents of Karen Ann Quinlan to remove their comatose daughter from a respirator.
        In all his actions as a public official, Mr. Hughes focused principally on their impact upon people. Reflecting on his career, he once said, "Speaking about the loss of tidelands didn't interest people, but talking about the loss of jelly sandwiches for kids awakened the public's concern about the need for educational funds." 'The Politics of Joy'
        Gov. Jim Florio issued a statement saying that Governor Hughes practiced "the politics of joy but also of determined hard work to bring about change."
        In an interview yesterday, former Governor Thomas H. Kean described Mr. Hughes as "my idea of what a governor should be."
        "When I was Governor he would call and say, 'This is your friend, the do-gooder, again,' " Mr. Kean said. "He was usually calling about someone who was sick or whose pension was not being handled properly. He cared about people who did not have a lot of other people to help them."
        Although Mr. Hughes had been active for decades in Democratic politics in New Jersey, when he became the party's candidate for governor in 1961 so little was known about him that Time magazine ran a profile titled "Who's Hughes?"
        That question was answered in an intense, barnstorming campaign that saw Mr. Hughes make dozens of stops a day, charming groups large and small with his stories about raising a family that, within months of his inauguration, would include 10 children. The result was a 34,920-vote upset victory over James P. Mitchell, a Republican who had been Secretary of Labor in the Eisenhower Administration.
        Mr. Hughes was born Aug. 10, 1909, in Florence, a town on the Delaware River a few miles south of Trenton. His father, Richard P. Hughes, was at various times the Mayor of Burlington, a state civil service commissioner and the warden of Trenton State Prison -- where the family lived for a time.
        Mr. Hughes graduated from St. Joseph's College in Philadelphia and the New Jersey Law School, now a part of Rutgers University.
        As a young lawyer, he worked for the election of Franklin D. Roosevelt in the 1930's and in the 1940's helped convert Mercer County from a Republican stronghold to a safe Democratic county.
        It was while he served as Mercer County Democratic chairman that Mr. Hughes earned the nickname "Two Buckets." So skilled was he at mediating disputes that it was said he could carry a bucket of water on each shoulder and never spill a drop by leaning toward either side in the controversy.
        From a job as an assistant United States Attorney for New Jersey, he moved to Mercer County Court and later to Superior Court, where he headed a study that led to revisions in the state's system for dealing with juvenile offenders. In 1957 he was appointed to the Appellate Division of Superior Court, the state's second-highest tribunal, but he soon resigned to enter private practice and support a growing family.
        Mr. Hughes married Miriam McGrory in 1935, and the couple had four children. Mrs. Hughes died in 1950. Four years later, Mr. Hughes met Elizabeth Sullivan Murphy, a widow with three children, when they were both out accompanying their children on a Halloween round of "trick or treat." They married in 1955 and had three children. Elizabeth Hughes died in 1983.
        In 1961, the coalition of Democratic county leaders that controlled the party picked Mr. Hughes to run for governor after their first choice, Attorney General Grover C. Richman, suffered a heart attack.
        As the centerpiece of his campaign, Mr. Hughes focused on a litany of state needs, although he deftly managed not to criticize his Democratic predecessor, Robert B. Meyner, whose personal and public frugality was legendary.
        When Mr. Hughes took office, New Jersey was one of only a handful of states that had neither an income tax nor a sales tax. His first year in office was marked by his first major political defeat when voters rejected a $750 million bond issue in November 1962.Three months later, Mr. Hughes urged enactment of a personal income tax, but legislative leaders made it clear there would be no action until after the 1965 gubernatorial election -- a race that was expected to be something of a referendum on taxation.
        The tax debate was virtually pushed out of the campaign by an unexpected issue. A Rutgers University teacher, Eugene Genovese, made headlines when he told his students he would "welcome a North Vietnamese victory" in the Vietnam War. The Republican candidate for governor, State Senator Wayne Dumont, called for the dismissal of Mr. Genovese, and Mr. Hughes defended the teacher's right to his opinions, although he deplored the statement. Tax Bill Narrowly Defeated
        After winning re-election by 350,000 votes, Mr. Hughes again turned his attention to enactment of an income tax, looking for help from the Democratic majorities in both chambers of the State House that he helped elect.  His tax bill made it through the Assembly but fell one vote short in the Senate.
        In its place, he agreed to sign a bill passed by the Legislature that instituted a 3 percent sales tax, saying that to turn down any broad-based tax would relegate the state to second-class status. Although he did not know it at the time, he was to play a key role in the enactment of the income tax several years later.
        In 1973, three years after Mr. Hughes left the Governor's post, the New Jersey Supreme Court ruled that the state's reliance on local property taxes to support public education discriminated against poorer urban districts. After Mr. Hughes was named Chief Justice by Gov. William T. Cahill in 1974, the court began prodding the Legislature to find a way to eliminate the inequities.
        After Gov. Brendan T. Byrne and the Legislature battled for months over Mr. Byrne's proposal to enact an income tax, the Hughes-led court stepped into the controversy. In June 1976, the court ordered the closing of New Jersey's public schools until a new financing plan was approved. The decision broke the back of the opposition to the income tax. It was enacted and the schools were reopened.
        Earlier that year the court made history on a very different issue: the proper role of medical technology in the preservation of life and health, an issue often described as "the right to die." In a landmark opinion in the case of Karen Ann Quinlan, the seven-member court unanimously asserted an individual's right to refuse medical treatment and a guardian's power to exercise that right in the event the patient is too ill to make his or her wishes known. Right to Privacy
        In an opinion written by Mr. Hughes, the court grounded its decision in a constitutional right to privacy and held that as the medical techniques designed to prolong life become more invasive, the state's interest in preserving life declines and the patient's right to privacy grows.
        The decision was followed by other similar rulings, in New Jersey and across the country, that affirmed an individual's right to control the extent of medical treatment in the face of expanding medical technology.
        In 1982, three years after he left the bench, Mr. Hughes attended a ceremony naming the state's new $93 million Justice Complex after him. Characteristically, he had tried to deflect the honor by lobbying for a predecessor, Woodrow Wilson. He said the former Governor and President was a man "who stood for international peace through law, something the world needs today." It was one of the few times he was overruled.
        Besides his stepson Mr. Murphy, of Chatham, N.J., Mr. Hughes is survived by five sons: Richard J., of Palm Coast, Fla.; Robert F., of Parsippany, N.J.; John J., of Trenton; Brian, of Princeton, N.J.; and Thomas M., of South Orange, N.J.; two daughters, Mary, of Boca Raton, Fla., and Helen Calero of Lawrenceville, N.J.; two other stepsons, Timothy J. Murphy of Washington, N.J., and Patrick Murphy of Lawrenceville, N.J.; a brother, the Rev. Joseph R. Hughes of Jamesburg, N.J.; and 11 grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 9, 1992, Wednesday
        An obituary yesterday about Richard J. Hughes, former Governor of New Jersey, referred incorrectly to a statement by a Rutgers University professor that became an issue in the 1965 governorship campaign. The professor, Eugene D. Genovese, said he would welcome a victory in Vietnam by the Vietcong, not by North Vietnam.
      