
        Carl F. Barger, the corporation lawyer and civic leader who played a pivotal role in keeping the Pirates in Pittsburgh in 1986 and was instrumental in establishing the new Florida Marlins franchise that will begin play in Miami next year, died yesterday. He collapsed at baseball's winter meetings in Louisville, Ky., where he was representing the Marlins as the team's president and chief operating officer.
        Mr. Barger, a former president of the Pirates, was 62. According to Dr. Bob Fulton, a surgeon at Humana University Hospital, he died of internal bleeding after suffering a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm.
        Mr. Barger, who had a history of medical problems and was under treatment for high blood pressure, was attending an owners meeting in a ballroom at the Galt House East Hotel when he excused himself at 11 A.M. to go to the rest room and collapsed just outside the meeting room.
        Within seconds, Bobby Brown, the cardiologist who is president of the American League, was at his side administering cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and an ambulance arrived 10 minutes later to take him to the hospital. But according to Dr. Fulton, Mr. Barger, who never regained consciousness, died before surgery could be performed.
        The death of the man who had helped preserve one major league franchise and establish another saddened executives of both teams.
        "His role in preserving the Pirates as a Pittsburgh institution cannot be overstated," said Rick Cerrone, a Pirates vice president. Jim Leyland, the team's manager, said he was especially saddened "because I knew how excited he was that after such a long wait and so much work he was going to get to see his new team play."
        Another of Mr. Barger's closest friends, H. Wayne Huizenga, the Marlins' majority owner, spoke of the "profound sense of sorrow" at losing "a friend and business associate for more than 20 years."
        To hear him tell it, Mr. Barger, a native of Lewistown, Pa., who attended Shippensburg State University and later served as an officer in the Army, was a lawyer who was born with baseball in his blood. He loved the game so much as a youngster, he once recalled, that he often hitchhiked to Pittsburgh from his home in central Pennsylvania to attend Pirates games at Forbes Field.
        For all his boyhood love of baseball, however, his talents lay in the law, but it was to be the law that was to provide his high-level entry into the game. As the managing partner of Eckert, Seamans, Cherin & Mellott, the Pittsburgh firm he joined upon graduation from Dickinson Law School in 1958, Mr. Barger, a specialist in corporate finance, was a key figure in putting together the public-private coalition that purchased the Pirates after the death of their long-time owner, John Galbreath, in 1985.
        Because there were threats that the team would be sold to outside interests and moved elsewhere, his role in saving the franchise made Mr. Barger a hero in Pittsburgh. Within a year of the purchase, he was named president of the club.
        He remained in the post until he resigned last year to help his friend, Mr. Huinzenga, the Blockbuster Video magnate, put together the Marlins franchise.
        Mr. Barger, who was separated from his wife, is survived by two daughters, Bunny and Betzi.
      