
        Dr. Ishak Ramzy, a leader in the development of child psychoanalysis, died on Thursday at St. Francis Hospital in Topeka, Kan. He was 80 years old and lived in Topeka.
        He died of natural causes after a brief illness, his family said.
        Dr. Ramzy was a student and colleague of Anna Freud, the daughter of Sigmund Freud, when child psychoanalysis was emerging as a specialty. He was a founding member of the International Association of Child Psychoanalysis, coordinated its first scientific meeting in 1966 and later served as its president.
        Born in Zagazig in the Nile Delta, he obtained his bachelor's degree and master's in education and psychology at Cairo University. He started his teaching and clinical career in Alexandria and Cairo. Worked With Miss Freud
        Moving to England, he earned a doctorate in psychology at London University and trained at the Institute of Psychoanalysis in London, where he worked with Miss Freud.
        Returning to Cairo, he became the academic and clinical mental health director at the College of Education and director of the psychological clinic of Ibrahim University.
        In 1954 he was hired by Dr. Karl Menninger as a psychoanalyst at the Menninger Foundation in Topeka, where he stayed until his retirement last fall. He also served as the director of the Menninger-affiliated Topeka Institute for Psychoanalysis for five years, and was a professor of psychoanalysis at the Menninger School of Psychiatry and president of the Topeka Psychoanalytic Society.
        Dr. Ramzy translated Freud's works into Arabic and wrote numerous articles and books on adult and child psychoanalysis.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Theodora Bassili; a son, Dr. Ameen Ramzy of Baltimore; two daughters, Dr. Nadia Ramzy of St. Louis, and Dr. Merit Sarah Rome of Columbus, Ohio; three brothers, Fawzi Soliman Rizk of Sydney, Australia, Rizk Soliman Rizk of Cairo and George Soliman of Forest Hills, Queens, a sister, Marie Tadros of Sydney, and three grandchildren.
      