
        Aaron Kellner, who helped to create a reliable blood-supply system for transfusions for much of the New York region, died yesterday at his Upper East Side home. He was 78.
        He died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said the New York Blood Center, of which Dr. Kellner was a founder.
        He founded the center in 1964 with the help of Lindsley F. Kimball. For 25 years, first as executive director and then as president, Dr. Kellner led the center as it grew to be the nation's largest blood bank. He retired in 1989.
        The center draws, processes, stores, tests and distributes blood to 250 hospitals in parts of New York State and New Jersey. It processes 1.5 million units of blood a year. A unit is one pint of whole blood or another quantity, such as a bag of plasma or a bag of blood platelets.
        The center, which has offices in Manhattan, elsewhere in the New York region and in Liberia, is also the largest blood-research institution in the country. It has a staff of 1,500.  Research and Innovation
        When the center opened, Dr. Kellner said, "We want to be far more than merely a drugstore for blood." His vision was later fulfilled by research, at the blood center's Kimball Research Institute in Manhattan, that led to freezing blood with liquid nitrogen to preserve and store it, the identification of new blood components, epidemiological research on hepatitis B and testing of the first American hepatitis B vaccine.
        Dr. Kellner was an international authority on blood and arteriosclerosis. He was a past president of the American Association of Blood Banks, the Council of Community Blood Centers, the American Society for the Study of Arteriosclerosis and the New York Society for the Study of Blood.
        He was on the board of the American Heart Association and served as a consultant to the National Institutes of Health, the Greater New York Hospital Association, the American Medical Association, the American Association of Blood Banks, the National Heart and Lung Institute and the New York Academy of Medicine.
        Dr. Kellner was born and raised in Manhattan and earned a bachelor's degree summa cum laude from Yeshiva College in 1934. He earned a master's degree in public health at Columbia and a medical degree from the University of Chicago in 1939. Ran Marathon at 69
        He took up jogging at 65, lost 50 pounds, and finished the New York City marathon in 1983, when he was 69, in four hours.
        Dr. Kellner had a second home on Shelter Island.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Dr. Zira DeFries, who is a psychiatrist; three sons, David and William, both of Manhattan, and Charles, a psychiatrist and neurologist, of Sullivan's Island, S.C.; a brother, Harold, of Yonkers; three sisters, Toby Stein, of San Francisco; Edith Silver, of White Plains, and Fay Feldman, of Bay Shore, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      