
        Andy Kirk, one of the last surviving orchestra leaders from the big-band era, died on Friday at his home in Harlem. He was 94 years old.
        He died of complications from Alzheimer's disease, said a friend, Phil Schaap, the disk jockey and jazz historian.
        Mr. Kirk was a contemporary of Duke Ellington, Count Basie, Fletcher Henderson and Jimmy Lunceford. Although his Clouds of Joy never reached the fame of those bands, he ran one of the best orchestras in jazz, a band with sophisticated soloists, intelligent arrangements and the Kansas City sound.
        Mr. Kirk was born in Newport, Ky., in 1898 and grew up in Denver. By 1927, he had quit his job in the post office and joined Terrence (T) Holder's band, the Dark Clouds of Joy, in Dallas. After the band broke up, Mr. Kirk took over its remnants, changed the name and secured work in Oklahoma City. There he was heard by the band leader George E. Lee, who offered the band work in the rich entertainment world of Kansas City. Mr. Kirk and the band relocated there.
        In 1929, the pianist Mary Lou Williams joined the orchestra. She gave the band much of its sound, arranging pieces and soloing regularly. When the Brunswick record company sent scouts to Kansas City, the Clouds of Joy were one of their main interests, in part because the band's light sound moved easily between jazz and pop.
        A year later, the Clouds of Joy replaced the Fletcher Henderson Orchestra at Roseland in New York, and from there the band grew to achieve a national reputation. In 1936, Mr. Kirk's band had a hit with "Until the Real Thing Comes Along," cementing its status as an attraction. Mr. Kirk had a fine ear for musicians, and before his band broke up in 1948, he had used the talents of Charlie Parker, Claude (Fiddler) Williams, Dick Wilson, Fats Navarro, Thelonious Monk, Howard McGhee, Don Byas, Ben Webster, Lester Young and many more. Mr. Kirk's son, Andy Kirk Jr., who died in 1967, was an exceptional early be-bop saxophonist.
        There are no survivors.
      