
        Hy Zausner, the visionary who founded the Port Washington Tennis Academy, which has nurtured John McEnroe, Vitas Gerulaitis and some 10,000 lesser young players since it was established on Long Island in 1965, died yesterday at St. Francis Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Zausner had suffered a stroke, according to his son, Richard, who said he did not know the cause of death.
        Mr. Zausner was born in Harlem and grew up playing basketball and handball, regarding tennis as an alien, country club sport. He did not touch a racquet until he was 57 years old, but when he did, something clicked. Started Taking Lessons
        It was during a vacation to Puerto Rico in 1964 that Mr. Zausner, a successful dairyman who was the largest importer of Danish cheeses in the United States, was persuaded by a fast-talking club pro named Nick Bollettieri to take a few lessons.
        "When I left Puerto Rico, the bill for my lessons was more than the hotel bill," Mr. Zausner later recalled. "Bollettieri was a good promoter." Within a year, Mr. Zausner was not only playing on the highest amateur levels for his age group, but also, with Mr. Bollettieri's help, had conceived the idea of founding a nonprofit tennis center to give youngsters a wholesome alternative to drugs.
        He sold his dairy ventures and with Mr. Bolletieri as his chief pro he established the academy.  A Venture Grows
        After a year, Mr. Bollettieri left to establish his own school in Florida, but under a succession of other pros, including Harry Hopman, the renowned Australian coach, the Long Island venture grew and soon had an international reputation for excellence.
        Under Richard Zausner, who took over the program 18 years ago, it has continued to train some 800 youngsters a year, including many scholarship students from Harlem and other inner-city neighborhoods.
        In addition to his son, Richard, Mr. Zausner is survived by his wife, Annabell; two other sons, Martin, a financial public relations specialist in New York, and Michael, who operates a tennis club near San Diego, and a daughter, Susan Kominski, a chief real estate appraiser for the Chase Manhattan Bank in New York.
      