
        Janio da Silva Quadros, whose abrupt resignation as President of Brazil in 1961 touched off a crisis that led the military to seize power, died Sunday at the Albert Einstein Hospital in Sao Paulo, Brazil. He was 75 years old.
        The hospital said Mr. Quadros had died of kidney and lung failure and a hemorrhage, The Associated Press reported.
        He was elected President in 1960 in a landslide, but quit after seven months in office, apparently because he expected the Congress to offer him more power if he came back. Instead, it simply accepted his resignation.
        Mr. Quadros was replaced by his Vice President, Joao Goulart, who accepted a constitutional reform to create a parliamentary system of government. The amendment was revoked in 1963, leading to the military coup that brought Gen. Humberto Castelo Branco to power in 1964.
        Born in Campo Grande on Jan. 25, 1917, Mr. Quadros graduated from the University of Sao Paulo in 1939 and worked his way through law school by teaching Portuguese and geography to high school students. He practiced law and taught at the Dante Alighieri Institute until 1945, when his students urged him to get into politics.
        He won a seat on the Sao Paulo city council two years later after campaigning as a Christian Democrat. He put in so many days and nights at the council building that municipal officials gave him his own key to the front door.
        He was elected Mayor of Sao Paulo in 1953, worked 15 hours a day and balanced the city's budget in less than a year.
        In 1954, he ran for Governor of the state of Sao Paulo with backing from the National Labor Party and the Socialist Party. Using a broom as his campaign symbol, he campaigned with slogans like "war on the corrupt rich." He was opposed by all the major newspapers, but won in a close race.
        Mr. Quadros got out his broom again in 1960, when he campaigned to succeed President Juscelino Kubitschek, barred by the Constitution from seeking another term. Mr. Kubitschek, who had promised "50 years of progress in 5 years," had given shape to the new city of Brasilia, but the cost of living had risen by more than 500 percent and the national debt had soared to more than $3.8 trillion while he was in office.
        President Quadros dismissed 20,000 federal employees, ordered all Government workers to put in a full seven-hour day and cut Government spending 30 percent in his first two months in office.
        "I have to apply drastic measures to lead this country to sanity," he told a group of businessmen in March 1961. "Applause or censure are indifferent to me. My only ambition is to serve and to serve well."
        After civilian rule was restored in 1985, he again served as Mayor of Sao Paulo.
      