
        Eugene Robert Black, a courtly Georgian who became one of the world's most influential figures as president of the World Bank from 1949 to 1962, died in his sleep early yesterday at his home in Southampton, L.I. He was 93 years old.
        Mr. Black probably died of heart failure and had suffered kidney failure, said his son William H. Black.
        Eugene Black was a relatively obscure, exceedingly competent Wall Street bond man and banker before he rose to head the bank, formally called the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
        In technical retirement after 13 peripatetic years as banker to the nations outside what was then the Soviet sphere, he became a financial adviser to the United Nations and sat on the boards of many institutions and businesses -- though he gave up almost all such posts as he grew older.
        At home and abroad, Mr. Black benefited from an acute mind, an engaging Southern drawl and a lack of vanity. He also brought a bluntness that disabused heads of state and finance ministers of any notion that he was an international Santa Claus.
        In the banking community, his prudence, supported by a fund of matter-of-fact information, won him confidence in the soundness of his judgments. Took the Large View
        On the world stage, he embodied America's postwar confidence and high hopes. Shrewd as Mr. Black might be in assessing the worth of an investment project, he took a large view of the developing world. He sought to engender an international social conscience -- a feeling that extreme differences of poverty and wealth were intolerable among nations.
        He was virtually born into banking and public life, being the son and namesake of a banker who was a governor of the Federal Reserve Board, and of Gussie Grady Black, daughter of a Southern editor and orator, Henry Woodfin Grady.
        The future world banker was born on May 1, 1898, in Atlanta, graduated in 1917 from the University of Georgia, served in the Navy in World War I and then joined the Atlanta office of Harris Forbes & Company, a New York bond and banking house.
        Showing a knack for salesmanship, he stayed with Harris Forbes and its successors as a bond expert until 1933, when he joined the Chase National Bank in New York as a second vice president. He became a vice president in 1937.  Reputation Grew
        The banking community respected him for his knowledge of the bond market, and his reputation grew. It was eventually at the insistence of John J. McCloy, the president of Chase, that he joined the World Bank, which was established by the Bretton Woods Conference in 1944 chiefly to provide loans for the rebuilding of postwar Europe. It began business in 1946, and Mr. McCloy became its president in 1947. In that year, Mr. Black joined its staff as executive director for the United States.
        He did so well that in 1949, when Mr. McCloy resigned as the bank's president to become High Commissioner to Germany, Mr. Black succeeded him. From then through 1962, with Mr. Black in charge, the World Bank lent more than $6 billion of its own capital, plus billions more that it borrowed in private markets, without a default.
        Defining the goals broadly, Mr. Black once said the bank was "concerned primarily to insure that its loans make the greatest possible contribution to increasing production, raising living standards and opening opportunities for further investment." Goal of Loans Crucial
        He believed firmly that money should be lent only for projects that would create the income, directly or indirectly, to repay the loans.
        And once, speaking of the bank's role in helping third-world nations in the context of the cold war, he said, "I don't think you can combat Communism, no matter how much money you give, unless the money is properly spent."
        Indeed, Mr. Black sought to harness the power of Western capitalism and private enterprise by lending almost exclusively for industrial, agricultural and power projects that would stimulate the private sector.
        "Governments must cease just tolerating private business," he declared. "They must welcome its contributions."
        At another time, explaining the bank's success, Mr. Black said it tried "to develop a spirit of mutual trust with its customers."
        "Countries come to us for help because they know we are not involved in politics," he said. "Instead of forcing our way of life on them, we try to build a working partnership."  Genial but 'Hard as Nails'
        In so doing, Mr. Black spent two-thirds of his time traveling the world. His British-tailored, 6-foot-2-inch frame, topped by a tilted Homburg, appeared at one time or another in most of the bank's member nations.
        He leavened business discussions with smiles and anecdotes. "But his geniality was hardboiled," an associate recalled. "He was as hard as nails when it came to appraising a project."
        Mr. Black played no favorites in lending money. He was also able to deal with sometimes difficult statesmen.
        On meeting President Gamal Abdel Nasser of the United Arab Republic, Mr. Black said, "I am a Wall Street banker." On this unequivocal footing, the two men became respectful friends, and in the long and tricky negotiations arising out of Mr. Nasser's seizure of the Suez Canal, Mr. Black was able to work out payments of the canal company's claims.
        He was also instrumental, between 1952 and 1960, in bringing India and Pakistan to an accord over the distribution of the waters of the Indus River. The delicate negotiations were inspired in part by the bank's interests in its own projects along the waterways. 'He's a Charmer'
        But Mr. Black's implacable aversion to risky loans irked more than one finance minister. "I don't like your bank much," one of them told a Black aide after being turned down for a loan, "but that Black -- he's a charmer."
        He was also sometimes diffident. "I'm not everything I ought to be for this job," he said after 10 years as head of the World Bank. "I had little experience in international banking. I am certainly no linguist, and I never make any speeches."
        And yet Mr. Black built the World Bank from 48 member nations with a capital of $8.3 billion to 80 members with a capital of $20.5 billion. The bank also produced the International Finance Corporation and the International Development Association.
        Sixty members received more than 300 loans in the Black administration. From Gabon to Guatemala, from Lebanon to Luxembourg, from Iceland to Indonesia, from France to the Philippines arose monuments to the bank's and Mr. Black's efforts in those years.
        Until he resigned on Dec. 31, 1962, five months short of the mandatory retirement age of 65, his headquarters were at the bank's office in Washington, where he also made his home. In later years, he and his wife maintained homes in Brooklyn and Florida in addition to Southampton, where they eventually had their sole residence. Took On Extra Jobs
        Mr. Black's directorships and the like -- most of which he relinquished while in his 70's -- ranged far afield. He was a trustee of Oglethorpe College in Atlanta and the Johns Hopkins University, of the Institute for International Education and the Population Council Inc., of the National Trust for Historic Preservation and the Ford Foundation. In addition he was chairman of the John F. Kennedy Library.
        On retiring from the World Bank, he was made chairman of the Brookings Institution and a board member of the Equitable Life Assurance Society, the Chase Manhattan Bank, the Bowery Savings Bank, the International Telephone and Telegraph Company, the American Express Company, Julius Garfinckel & Company, the Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation, the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and other companies and financial institutions. He was a member of the board of the New York Times Company from 1963 to 1973. Special Adviser to U.N.
        In 1963, Mr. Black was appointed special financial consultant to the United Nations. In this role he assisted in the marketing of United Nations bonds and in dunning members in arrears. After leaving the World Bank he was also a special adviser to the ruler of Kuwait in the 1960's.
        Mr. Black's first wife, the former Dolly Blalock, died in 1928.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Susette Heath, whom he married in 1930; a sister, Julia Black Wellborn of Atlanta; a daughter and a son from his first marriage, Elizabeth Black Campbell of Falmouth, Mass., and Eugene R. Black Jr. of Easthampton, L.I., who is a retired investment banker; a son from his second marriage, William H. Black of Southampton, also a retired investment banker; eight grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
        The funeral is to be private.
      