
        Joseph L. Fisher, an expert on natural resources and an economist who advised two Presidents, served in Congress and was a local and state official in Virginia, died on Wednesday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 78 years old.
        He died of a brain tumor, his family said.
        Dr. Fisher was a senior economist for the Council of Economic Advisers to the President for four years under Harry S. Truman and one year under Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        For the next 20 years Dr. Fisher worked for Resources for the Future, a nonprofit organization that analyzes the supply and use of natural resources. He was its president for 15 years and in 1962 directed a 1,000-page forecast of the nation's needs through the year 2000. He later served on Federal panels on oil policy and noise pollution.
        A Democrat, he was elected to the Arlington County Board in 1964, serving until 1974. He was its chairman for three years. He also led the Washington Metropolitan Transit Authority and the Metropolitan Washington Council of Governments.
        In the 1974 Democratic landslide that followed the Watergate revelations, he upset Joel T. Broyhill, a 20-year incumbent, to win a seat in Congress. Despite being a freshman, Dr. Fisher was given a coveted seat on the House Ways and Means Committee, and he became an influential legislator on the budget, taxes and Social Security. He also helped create a fund to clean up oil spills. He lost his seat in the Republican sweep of 1980.
        In 1982, Gov. Charles S. Robb of Virginia appointed Dr. Fisher as State Secretary of Human Resources. He left government work in 1986 and began teaching political economics at George Mason University.
        A longtime lay leader in the Unitarian Church, he was for several years the moderator and chairman of the international Unitarian Universalist Association. He was also a former board chairman of the National Academy of Public Administration and the Population Reference Bureau and was on the board of the Wilderness Society.
        Mr. Fisher was born in Pawtucket, R.I. He earned a bachelor's degree from Bowdoin College, a master's and a doctorate in economics from Harvard and a master's in education from George Washington University.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Margaret Winslow; four sons, H. Benjamin of Jakarta, Indonesia, Robert W., of Fort Worth, Tex., William B., of Great Falls, Va., and James H., of Yellow Springs, Ohio; three daughters, Caroline Ostrander of Ithaca, N.Y., Elizabeth Fisher of Hong Kong and Barbara W. Fisher of Arlington; 14 grandchildren, and a sister, Mary McWilliams of Canton, Mass.
      