
        James G. Scileppi, who was a Federal prosecutor in New York City, a suburban developer on Long Island and a champion horseman, died on Thursday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 93 years old and lived in Fort Lauderdale.
        He died of heart failure after suffering a broken hip and stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Scileppi served as the chief prosecutor for the United States Attorney in the Eastern District of New York from 1935 to 1946.
        Among the convictions he obtained were those of three businessmen in a $1.6 million stock fraud case; a counterfeiter whose plates were used to print 200,000 phony $10 bills; 13 Federal alcohol agents who cheated the Government of $5 million in taxes, and a Canadian who smuggled 25,000 Chinese and Greek aliens into the United States.
        Mr. Scileppi also prosecuted dozens of people in three major bootleg rings for evading $17 million in taxes on nearly two million gallons of whisky and slivovitz.
        In 1947, he founded the Blue Crest Wine and Sprirts Distributing Company, a wholesaler in Manhattan. After a year he moved to Massapequa, L.I., and developed 1,500 homes there from 1948 to 1952 in the postwar suburban boom.
        For the next decade, he focused on racing. He co-founded the United States Trotting Association and owned up to 12 pacers and trotters at a time, including three champions.
        Moving to Florida in 1962, he bought oceanfront property that was developed into condominiums. He became a Councilman in Sea Ranch Lakes Village and an officer of the Coral Ridge Yacht Club.
        Mr. Scileppi was born in Brooklyn. In World War I he served with the United States Marines in France. He graduated from St. Lawrence University and Brooklyn Law School and was a private lawyer before becoming a prosecutor.
        His wife, the former Anna Aiosa, died in 1982.
        He is survived by a son, James Jr., of Tucson, Ariz.; a daughter, Virginia Benenati of Sea Ranch Lakes; two brothers, Harry and Myron, both of Pompano, Fla.; nine grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      