
        Avraham Harman, chancellor of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and former Israeli Ambassador to the United States, died Sunday at the Hadassah University Hospital in Jerusalem. He was 77 years old and lived in Jerusalem.
        He died of complications from pneumonia, a family member said.
        As Ambassador to Washington from 1959 to 1968, Mr. Harman argued successfully that since the Soviets were pouring arms into Arab countries, the United States should give Israel the opportunity to obtain arms "to maintain a minimum level of deterrent strength." He also worked to secure financial and moral support from American Jews.
        As early as 1960, Mr. Harman declared that peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors was "historically inevitable." Addressing the American Zionist Council, the Israeli diplomat said, "There is only one road to peace in the Middle East and that is through direct discussion and negotiation." Rapid Growth of University
        As president of Hebrew University from 1968 to 1983 and chancellor until his death, Mr. Harman was responsible for the major expansion of the school, rebuilding the original campus on Mount Scopus, which had served as an Israeli garrison after the 1948 war.
        Under Mr. Harman's tenure, the university moved its faculties of law, humanities and social sciences from the main campus to Mount Scopus. New installations there include the Harry S. Truman Research Institute for the Advancement of Peace, the Rothberg School for Overseas Students and the Institute of Contemporary Jewry.
        In 1984, the university senate awarded Mr. Harman an honorary doctorate "in recognition of a lifetime of devotion to Zionism and the State of Israel and in profound appreciation of his matchless contribution to the Hebrew University."
        Born in London, the son of a rabbi and a Hebrew language instructor, Mr. Harman learned Hebrew at an early age. After earning a law degree from Wadham College, Oxford, he served on the staff of the Zionist Federation in London.
        In 1938, he moved to Jerusalem and held various positions with the Jewish Agency. When the State of Israel was founded in 1948, he was named deputy director of the Government Information Office. Diplomatic Career
        Appointed consul general in Montreal in 1949, Mr. Harman joined Israel's delegation to the United Nations in 1950 and was consul general in New York from 1953 to 1955. Returning to Jerusalem, he served as director of the Jewish Agency's information department before being sent to Washington as ambassador, replacing Abba Eban.
        Mr. Harman holds honorary degrees from Yeshiva University, Brandeis University, Rochester University, New York University, Brooklyn College, the University of Pennsylvania and the University of San Francisico.
        He is survived by his wife, Zena, who has served as Unicef chairwoman in Israel, a member of Israel's delegation to the United Nations and a member of the Israeli Parliament. Also surviving are two daughters, Naomi Chazen, head of the Truman Institute at Hebrew University, and Dr. Ilana Boehm, a physician of Beersheba; a son, David, head of the Jewish Agency's education authority, and eight grandchildren.
      