
        Dr. Oscar T. Broneer, an archeologist and former professor of the University of Chicago who discovered an important Panhellenic shrine dating from the seventh century B.C., died on Saturday at his home in Ancient Corinth, Greece. He was 97 years old.
        He died of heart failure, said Dr. Elizabeth Gephardt, Dr. Broneer's successor as director of the University of Chicago's excavations in Isthmia, Greece.
        Dr. Broneer's most striking discovery, made in 1952, was the site of the Temple of Poseidon, built by the Corinthians at Isthmia. British and French research teams had searched unsuccessfully for the temple, along with a theater and stadium, for 70 years. The temple was the last of four great Panhellenic shrines to be rediscovered. At the time of Dr. Broneer's excavation, the other shrines, Olympia, Delphi and Nemea, had long been recognized and placed under excavation. Dedicated to Sea God
        The Temple of Poseidon had been the site of the Isthmian games, a national celebration second only to the Olympics in fame. It is recorded that Socrates and St. Paul attended the Isthmian games, and that the Roman Emperor Nero once played music to entertain the crowds there. The temple was dedicated to the sea god Poseidon, to honor the mythological hero Melikertes-Palaimon.
        Before workers began digging at the site, Dr. Broneer spotted a small earring, in the shape of a lion's head and a loop of snakes, that had been unearthed by German soldiers during the occupation of Greece in World War II and had lain on the ground unnoticed. Dr. Broneer realized that it was no modern-day bauble but an artifact from the fourth century B.C. The discovery aided in the eventual detection of the temple site.
        Dr. Broneer was born in Backebo, Sweden. He earned a bachelor's degree from Augustana College in Rock Island, Ill., and a master's degree and doctorate at the University of California at Berkeley. He worked on his first excavation in Greece as a student of the American School of Classical Studies in Athens and worked there throughout his life. He also studied at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.
        In 1927, he joined the American School as an instructor, later becoming a professor of archeology and finally acting director from 1940 to 1952. From 1948 until his retirement, Dr. Broneer was professor of archeology and classical languages and literature at the University of Chicago and director of its excavations at Isthmia. He also held visiting professorships at the University of California at Los Angeles and Stanford University.
        He was honorary vice president of the Archeological Association of Greece and an honorary member of the International Olympic Committee. In 1969 he was awarded the gold medal for distinguished archeological achievement by the Archeological Institute of America.
        He is survived by two sons, Paul, of Ancient Corinth, Greece, and Jon, of Paris, and two grandsons.
        Correction:  February 29, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary on Thursday about Dr. Oscar T. Broneer referred incorrectly to an archeologist who succeeded him as director of the University of Chicago's excavations at Isthmia, Greece. She is Dr. Elizabeth Gebhard.
      