
        Bernard M. Shanley, a top White House aide to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and a prominent New Jersey lawyer and politician, died on Tuesday at his home in Bernardsville, N.J. He was 88 years old.
        He died of natural causes after a brief illness, his family said.
        Mr. Shanley, who twice ran for the United States Senate, continued in politics until two weeks ago, when he resigned as a Republican national committeeman.
        He was also the senior partner of Shanley and Fisher, the law firm he founded 59 years ago, which grew to be one of the state's largest. Based in Morristown, it has 400 employees, including 140 lawyers.
        For five years he was a key White House official, serving as the President's special counsel, appointment secretary and deputy chief of staff.
        He was the gatekeeper to the Oval Office, deciding who saw the President and for how long. He juggled the timetable of events, meetings and calls and managed the flow of documents and letters to be signed by the President. Helpful on Many Fronts
        Mr. Shanley served as a liaison to Congress, the State Department and the military, recommended legislation and helped draft State of the Union addresses. Special assignments included revision of the Taft-Hartley Act and a National Security Council mission to Formosa regarding the islands of Quemoy and Matsu.
        He failed in two bids for elective office, losing a primary for the Senate in 1957 and a general election against Democratic incumbent Harrison A. Williams in 1964. Considered a moderate, Mr. Shanley was appointed to Republican National Committee in 1960 and was later made the vice chairman for the Northeast.
        He was born in Newark to a prominent family. One grandfather was a wealthy contractor who built the Pennsylvania Railroad track to Philadelphia and helped found Public Service Electric and Gas.
        Mr. Shanley graduated from Columbia in 1925 and Fordham Law School in 1928. He served in World War II, retiring with the rank of captain.
        His political activity began in the late 1940's, when he became counsel to the Republican State Committee. He joined Mr. Eisenhower's campaign in 1952 after serving as national campaign manager for Harold E. Stassen until he withdrew.
        Mr. Shanley was counsel to the state Chamber of Commerce and served on several boards, including those of Public Service Electric and Gas, St. Benedict's School, Cathay Insurance and the Chubb Corporation.
        Mr. Shanley lived on a 69-acre estate, where he raised sheep.
        His wife, the former Maureen V. Smith, is dead.
        Surviving are three sons, Seton of East Hampton, L.I., Kevin of Gladstone, N.J., and Brendan of Marco Island, Fla.; two daughters, Maureen Kirk of Manhattan and Brigid Lamb of Mendham, N.J.; a brother, Seton, of Washington, Conn.; three sisters, Mary Dempsey of Philadephia, Ruth Davis of Montclair, N.J., and Regina Klein of Basking Ridge, N.J., and seven grandchildren.
      