
        Wayne Dumont Jr., who served in the New Jersey State Senate for 36 years and was often called the dean of the Legislature, died on Wednesday at Warren Hospital in Phillipsburg, N.J. He was 77 years old and lived in Phillipsburg.
        He was taken to the hospital after having trouble breathing at his home and later died of congestive heart failure, said his son, W. Hunt Dumont, a former United States Attorney for New Jersey.
        Mr. Dumont had been in poor health for years and resigned from the Senate in July 1990, citing his inability to return to Senate sessions in Trenton after suffering a stroke in October 1988, his son said.
        When Mr. Dumont, a lawyer, was elected in 1951, he was the first Republican elected to the Senate from Warren County in nearly 75 years.
        In honor of Mr. Dumont, Gov. Jim Florio on Thursday ordered that all flags be flown at half-staff through today.
        "Whether you were with him or against him on an issue you knew that Wayne Dumont was speaking out of deep conviction and a sense of caring," Mr. Florio said in a statement.
        The Governor also alluded to one of the central issues in Mr. Dumont's career: In 1976 he was the only Republican senator to support the state income tax, a stand that did not make him popular with party colleagues.
        Taxes also loomed large in Mr. Dumont's run for the Republican gubernatorial primary in 1965, the third and last time he sought the nomination. Mr. Dumont won the primary, but only narrowly because of his support for a sales tax, his son said.
        He lost in the general election in a landslide to the incumbent, Richard J. Hughes. He also lost his Senate seat that year, but was re-elected in 1967.
        "As he reflected back on it in the late 80's, he had really come to grips with the fact that the loss in a way was a blessing in disguise because it gave him another 25 years in the Legislature, where he was very happy," his son said.
        Before resigning as the Legislature's senior member, Mr. Dumont had sponsored more than 500 measures and was especially interested in education and agriculture, his son said. He was also known for his careful attention to his constituents.
        Mr. Dumont was born in Paterson on June 25, 1914. After graduating from Lafayette College, he became a minor league pitcher for the St. Louis Browns organization but soon decided to study law at the University of Pennsylvania.
        He served in World War II and assisted in the prosecution of Japanese war criminals.
        Although he spent most of his time in the Senate, Mr. Dumont maintained his private law practice, concentrating mostly on municipal law, his son said.
        Aside from his son, he is survived by his wife of 53 years, Helen Williamson Dumont, and a granddaughter.
      