
        John Ireland, a stage, film and television actor nominated for an Oscar for his role as the reporter in "All the King's Men" in 1949, died on Saturday at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif.
        He was 78 years old and lived in Santa Barbara. He died of leukemia, his family said.
        Among the better known of his 200 movies were "Spartacus," "Gunfight at the OK Corral," "Red River," "The Good Die Young," "I Shot Jesse James" and "Farewell, My Lovely." His television work included the "Rawhide" series and guest appearances in shows like "Bonanza" and "Murder, She Wrote."
        Mr. Ireland was born in Vancouver, Canada, and grew up poor in Harlem in New York City. He dropped out of school after seventh grade to help his widowed mother, but he was branded a delinquent and was sent to reform schools and summer camps. He became a promising swimmer and practiced in the East River. Once he competed with Johnny Weissmuller and at another time swam a grueling 15-mile marathon. His swimming led him to do underwater stunts at a carnival, where he also began working as a barker. A Lucky Accident
        His acting career started by accident. Passing the Davenport Free Theater in Manhattan one day, he went in, thinking it offered a free show. Instead the theater gave free training in acting. He stayed, slept in a dressing room and was paid a dollar a day to work backstage while rehearsing lines.
        Soon he appeared onstage. In 1941 he made his Broadway debut in a production of "Macbeth," with Maurice Evans and Judith Anderson. Other Broadway plays followed. Then Hollywood beckoned, and his first film was "A Walk in the Sun" in 1945.
        During the McCarthy period, he sued two television producers for breach of contract and slander. He accused them of reneging on starring him in the Ellery Queen series and of stating that he was politically unacceptable because of dubious loyalty to the United States. He accepted a "substantial" but undisclosed cash settlement.
        His marriages to the actress Elaine Rosen and later to the actress Joanne Dru ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 30 years, the former Daphne Myrick Cameron; a daughter, Daphne, of Manhattan; three sons, Cameron Cameron of Los Angeles, and John and Peter, both of Los Angeles and both by his first wife; two grandchildren and a sister, Katherine, of Los Angeles.
      