
        Dr. John Clark Sheehan, a chemist who pioneered synthetic penicillin, died Saturday at his home in Key Biscayne, Fla. He was 76 years old.
        He died of congestive heart failure, his family said.
        In his three decades as a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Dr. Sheehan came to hold about 30 patents. Among the most important were those involving the synthesis of penicillin, the life-saving antibiotic discovered in 1928 by Alexander Fleming, the Scottish bacteriologist.
        Natural penicillin took months to generate from molds, and when demand for the drug surged in World War II, battalions of scientists in dozens of laboratories in the United States and Britain tried to synthesize it. Their efforts proved futile, and many organic chemists concluded that it could not be done.
        The breakthrough came in 1957. Dr. Sheehan had stuck with the problem and achieved synthesis, even though his method at first was too complex to be of commercial use.
        Dr. Sheehan also produced an intermediate compound in the form of a basic penicillin nucleus and was able to string various chemicals into the nucleus, producing new types of penicillin. He thereby opened the way to the development of particular penicillins to combat particular bacteria. By the early 1960's, English and American researchers came up with ways of duplicating Dr. Sheehan's nucleus commercially and started turning out hundreds of kinds of experimental penicillin.
        Among Dr. Sheehan's discoveries was ampicillin, a semi-synthetic penicillin taken orally rather than by injection. Began Research in 1948
        A native of Battle Creek, Mich., Dr. Sheehan graduated from Battle Creek College and received his master's and doctoral degrees in organic chemistry from the University of Michigan. He started a 31-year teaching career at M.I.T. in 1946, became a full professor in 1952 and professor emeritus and senior lecturer in 1977.
        Dr. Sheehan began to work on the synthesis of penicillin in 1948. His nine years of research on the penicillin molecule was aided by Bristol Laboratories of Syracuse. He once described the molecule as unstable, saying that it disintegrated easily and that building it up in the laboratory was like "placing an anvil on top of a house of cards."
        He was a scientific adviser to Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson and the author of more than 150 scientific articles. His book, "The Enchanted Ring: The Untold Story of Penicillin," was published by M.I.T. Press in 1982.
        Dr. Sheehan is survived by his wife of more than 50 years, the former Marion M. Jennings; two sons, John C. Jr. of Denver and David E. of Key Biscayne; a daughter, Elizabeth S. Watkins of Saunderstown, R.I.; a brother, David, of Battle Creek, and six grandchildren.
      