
        John D. Strong, a scientist and inventor who discovered water vapor on Venus and advanced the development of telescope mirrors and other optical devices, died on Saturday at the Amherst Nursing Home in Amherst, Mass. He was 87 years old.
        He died of pancreatic cancer, his family said.
        As a researcher and educator, Dr. Strong contributed significantly to technology in physics, astronomy, meteorology and optics.
        In the 1930's he helped develop a vacuum evaporation process for coating glass with aluminum to make telescope mirrors more durable and sensitive than conventional silver-backed glass. In the 1940's he used that process on the 200-inch-diameter telescope at Mount Palomar in southwestern California, the largest telescope of its kind at the time. Anti-Reflective Coatings
        The coating technique remains in wide use today in telescopes and other devices, including computer chips. In an important extension of the technique, Dr. Strong developed anti-reflective coatings for optical elements to prevent spurious "ghost" images.
        He also made major advances in defraction gratings, optical devices with grooves far finer than human hairs. Gratings break down light into constituent colors, similar to what a prism does but much more precisely. His gratings were used in the first analysis of far-ultraviolet rays from the sun.
        Dr. Strong's controversial claim in 1964 of detecting water vapor in the atmosphere of Venus was based on data from instruments he sent to an altitude of 87,500 feet on a piloted balloon. Other experts disputed his claim and insisted that Venus's clouds were only volcanic dust. Eventually he was vindicated.
        Dr. Strong did research and taught at the California Institute of Technology from 1930 to 1942. He worked on military research at Harvard University from 1942 to 1945, helping the Allies catch up to the Germans in infrared studies. Professor and Textbook Author
        He was a professor and director of the Astrophysical and Physical Meteorology Laboratories at Johns Hopkins University from 1945 to 1967, and was a professor at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst from 1967 to 1975.
        He wrote several textbooks, including "Procedures in Experimental Physics," "Concepts of Classical Optics" and "Procedures in Applied Optics."
        He was born in Riverdale, Kan., graduated from the University of Kansas in 1926 and received a doctorate in physics from the University of Michigan in 1930. He won medals from the Society of Photo-Optical Instrument Engineers, the Franklin Institute and the Optical Society of America, of which he was later president.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Bethany June McLaughlin; two daughters, Patricia Sheppard of Vinalhaven, Me., and Virginia Kimball of Westford, Mass., 12 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      