
        James Edwin Webb, whose leadership of America's space agency in the 1960's was credited with winning the race to put a man on the moon, died Friday at Georgetown Hospital in Washington. He was 85 years old and lived in Washington.
        He apparently died of a heart attack, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Webb was the administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration from its infancy through the crucial breakthroughs leading to the manned landing on the moon. To the Moon, and Quick
        Neil A. Armstrong's first step on the moon, on July 20, 1969, was achieved ahead of the deadline that President John F. Kennedy had set. With its accomplishment, the United States for the first time leaped ahead of the Soviet Union in the rivalry for primacy in outer space and scored a coup in the contest for international prestige on Earth.
        The feat, which was the culmination of Mr. Webb's eight years at NASA, actually occurred months after he had left the agency but still earned him a reputation as an extraordinary manager.
        "It has been likened to the Manhattan Project as one of two greatest managerial efforts in modern government," said Julian Scheer a former aide to Mr. Webb. John E. Pike, director of the Space Policy Project at the Federation of American Scientists, said Mr. Webb played the pivotal role: "The reason we got to the moon before the Russians was they didn't have anybody to pull it together. The critical difference was we outmanaged them."
        Although Mr. Webb left NASA in October 1968, the long preparation for the Apollo XI mission was credited to his tenure. President Lyndon B. Johnson promoted Mr. Webb's deputy, Thomas O. Paine, to lead the agency and he carried on the program under the Nixon Administration.
        Most of the space agency's biggest breakthroughs came under Mr. Webb. They included America's first manned flight, by Alan B. Shepard Jr., and first orbital flight, by John Glenn, in the Mercury program, as well as the first two-man flights and first walk in space, by Edward H. White 2d, under the Gemini program.
        The one major setback that occurred during his tenture at NASA was the 1967 launching pad fire that killed three astronauts. Playing Catch-Up
        But in those successes the United States was still catching up to the Soviet Union, whose surprise launching of the Sputnik satellite in 1958 had stunned the world, caught America off-guard and posed an awesome military and public relations challenge.
        The resulting space race opened a new phase of cold war competition, for world scientific and technical leadership.
        Soon after taking office in 1961, President Kennedy vowed: "This country is dedicated to landing men on the moon and returning them safely within this decade."
        Mr. Webb was assigned the task of delivering on that promise. The success of his programs turned the tide in the international space rivalry and earned him renown for his ability to pull together the scientific, engineering, personnel, budgetary, political and governmental efforts required. Symbol of Achievement
        The lunar landing became a symbol for accomplishing a difficult goal. Advocates of housing the homeless, curing cancer, ending poverty and other causes often use the phrase "if we can put a man on the moon . . . ."
        Besides the manned flights, NASA made other major advances under Mr. Webb. They included unmanned flights to observe Venus and Mars, the development of militarily and commercially important weather and communications satellites and technical innovations in aviation.
        Mr. Webb, a business executive and career Federal official, served under three Democratic Presidents.
        Despite his status, he avoided the spotlight, shying from news conferences and even skipping spacecraft launches.
        An even-tempered manager, he retained his soft Southern accent. His subordinates said that his style was serious-minded and that he was a fount of ideas, had long-term vision and did not hesitate to delegate. He engendered a staff loyalty that evolved into what Mr. Scheer described as an informal James Webb alumni network. From North Carolina
        The son of a rural schools superintendent, Mr. Webb was born in Granville County, N.C. He graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1928, then worked at the university and as a law clerk.
        He trained as a pilot in the Marine Corps from 1930 to 1932 and was a Congressional aide from 1932 to 1934. He studied law at George Washington University and was admitted to the District of Columbia bar in 1936.
        Joining the Sperry Gyroscope Company in Brooklyn in 1936, he worked variously as personnel director, treasurer, assistant to the president and vice president. During World War II he again served with the Marines Corps, reaching the rank of major. In 1945 and 1946 he was a lawyer with Gardner, Morrison & Rogers in Washington. Budget Director
        President Harry S. Truman named him director of the Bureau of the Budget from 1946 to 1949, where he drafted the first balanced budget since 1930. Then he served as Under Secretary of State to Dean Acheson from 1949 to 1952 with responsibility for reorganizing the department along the lines recommended by the Hoover Commission.
        When Dwight D. Eisenhower became President, Mr. Webb, a Democrat, returned to private business. He was a director and assistant to the president of Kerr-McGee Oil Industries in Oklahoma City from 1952 to 1961. His appointment by President Kennedy to head NASA began in 1961.
        He also served on the President's Council on Equal Employment Opportunity and headed the Frontiers of Science Foundation, Southwest Seminars in Public Responsibility, Educational Services Inc., Urban Studies Inc. and the Meridian House Foundation.
        He was on the boards of McDonnell Aircraft, the United States Committee for the United Nations, George Washington University, Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies, the Federal National Advisory Cancer Council, Federal Home Loan Bank of Topeka, the Better Business Bureau of Oklahoma City, the Transportation Research Foundation, Presbyterian Homes and the National Civil Service League.
        Surviving are his wife of nearly 54 years, the former Patsy Aiken Douglas; a daughter, Sarah (Sally) of Berkeley, Calif.; a son, James E. Jr. of Stockton, N.J.; a grandchild; two brothers, John Frederick Webb of Oxford, N.C., and Henry Gorham Webb of Kensington, Md., and a sister, Olive Wharton of Durham, N.C.
      