
        Hurd C. Willett, a meteorologist who was a leading developer in the forecasting of long-range weather trends, died Thursday at the Suburban Manor Nursing Home in West Concord, Mass. He was 89 years old and lived in Littleton, Mass.
        He died after suffering a stroke, a family spokesman said.
        Dr. Willett made some startlingly accurate predictions. Nearly 40 years in advance, for example, he forecast that increasing rains in the 1980's would markedly raise the Great Salt Lake in Utah, flooding the surrounding land.
        He devised the five-day forecasting system that the United States Weather Bureau adopted in 1939 and still uses, in a more sophisticated form. He was especially known for predicting the impact of sunspot activity, or solar flare storms, on Earth's weather pattern over 20-year cycles. His work included studies of air pollution and the flow of jet streams that pilots had discovered at high altitudes.
        Born in Providence, R.I., he grew up on a farm near Pittsburgh. As a boy, he began keeping a weather diary and, based on newspaper reports on weather elsewhere, started making weather predictions.
        After graduating from Princeton University in 1924, Dr. Willett worked for the United States Weather Bureau. He won a Guggenheim Fellowship to go to Norway and study the polar front theories that were evolving in Scandinavia and that are now widely followed.
        In 1929 he earned a doctorate in meteorology at George Washington University. His thesis, "The Forecasting of Smoke, Haze and Fog," was later published in several languages.
        Dr. Willett taught several of the nation's top weather experts. He joined the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1929, taught for 39 years and continued as a researcher from 1968 to 1988.
        In making his successful predictions, Dr. Willett told Midwestern farmers to persevere through drought in the 1950's because 20 years of bountiful seasons would follow. He assured insurance executives in 1956 that a streak of violent and costly hurricanes would taper off by 1960.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Bachman Lloyd; three sons, Allen B., of Denver, Stephen C., of Berkeley, Calif., and David H., of Littleton; two daughters, Joyce W. Bradley of Vancouver, British Columbia, and Emily W. Ranck of Hopkinton, Mass.; a brother, Edward F., of Bridgeport, Conn., and seven grandchildren.
      