
        Edward Sagendorph Mason, a noted economist, former Harvard dean and frequent Government adviser, died on Saturday at his retirement home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 93 years old and had lived in Cambridge, Mass., until 1988.
        A Harvard University statement said he died after suffering a second stroke.
        Dr. Mason taught at Harvard for 46 years. When he retired in 1969, he had the rank of university professor, one of a very few who hold that title at any given time. Until recently he remained in regular contact with development programs he had founded at Harvard to benefit third world countries.
        Dr. Mason began his teaching career in 1923 while working for the doctoral degree that Harvard granted him two years later. By 1936 he was a full professor, and in 1947 he became dean of the Graduate School of Public Admnistration, since renamed the John F. Kennedy School of Government. He remained its head for 11 years. Work in Development
        In 1963 he founded the Development Advisory Service, now known as the Harvard Institute for International Development. In addition, he organized a study program for mid-career officials from developing countries, called the Edward S. Mason Program in his honor.
        Dr. Mason, a native of Clinton, Iowa, graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Kansas in 1919 and later studied at Oxford University as well as Harvard. Early in his career, he focused on industrial organization, prompting the Labor Department to recruit him as an economic consultant before World War II.
        He served with the Office of Strategic Services during the war and then went to the State Department, where he was an economic planner for the formation of the United Nations and the Marshall Plan. In one mission to Moscow, in 1947, he served as chief economic adviser to Secretary of State George C. Marshall. Over the years, he sat on many Government panels, especially those concerning economic development.
        Dr. Mason was a longtime consultant to the World Bank and was co-author, with Robert E. Asher, of "The World Bank Since Bretton Woods" (1973, Brookings).
        He is survived by a son, Edward H. L. Mason of Alamo, Calif.; a daughter, Jane Manasse of Santa Barbara; a stepson, Robert E. LaMont of Arlington Va.; seven grandchildren, and eleven great-grandchildren.
      