
        Manolis Andronicos, a Greek archeologist who discovered royal tombs of ancient Macedonia, probably including that of Alexander the Great's father, died yesterday at a hospital in Salonika, Greece. He was 73 years old and lived in Salonika.
        Dr. Andronicos had cancer of the liver and suffered a stroke a month ago, said a niece, Nina Travlou-Einhorn of New York City. She said she did not know the immediate cause of death.
        The crowning achievement of Dr. Andronicos's career came in 1977 in the village of Vergina, in northern Greece. He had been excavating there for 40 years, finding rich tombs and artifacts from ancient times.
        Finally, 17 feet underground, he struck the largest tomb at the site and announced the discovery of the tomb of Philip II (382-336 B.C.), the Macedon King who conquered all of Greece and was the father of the conqueror Alexander the Great. Cautious Acceptance
        Dr. Andronicos, a professor of archeology at the University of Salonika, based his conclusion on ivory heads found on the tomb floor that resembled known portraits of Philip and Alexander. Chemical dating placed the tomb between 350 and 320 B.C., and no other Macedonian king was buried in northern Greece during that time.
        At the time the tomb was discovered, scholars said it was one of the most splendid and important archeological finds since World War II. They generally, though cautiously, accepted the evidence that associated the tomb with Philip. But to this day, there has been no proof that this was Philip's tomb. Philip was assassinated in 336 B.C.
        Among the treasures of the tomb were the first complete painting from the Hellenistic period, silver and gold ornaments and weapons and a marble sarcophagus containing a gold casket with bones believed to be those of Philip. Dr. Andronicos said a smaller casket might have held the remains of Olympias, the first of Philip's seven wives and the mother of Alexander. Offset Any Athenian Bias
        In his book, "Vergina: The Royal Tombs," Dr. Andronicos said the discovery provided "new information about Macedonian Hellenism." Previous knowledge had been based almost exclusively on Athenian literary sources. He noted that the view from Athens was often biased because Macedonia was a serious political rival.
        The discovery appeared to confirm a previously disputed theory that Vergina, not Edessa farther north, was the site of Aegae, the capital of ancient Macedonia.
        Dr. Andronicos was born in Bursa, in northern Turkey, in 1919 and began studying classical archeology at the University of Salonika in the 1930's, receiving his doctorate there in 1952. He spent two years of post-doctoral studies at Oxford University.
        He first dug at Vergina in 1937 as a student assistant. But his work was interrupted by World War II and the Greek civil war in the late 1940's.
        Dr. Andronicos was a member of numerous scholarly societies, including the Archeological Society of Athens, the German Archeological Institute of Berlin and the Society for the Promotion of Hellenic Studies in London. In 1982 he received the Olympia Prize from the Onassis Foundation.
        His survivors include his wife, the former Olympia Kakoulidou, and a brother, Apostolos Philippides, also of Salonika.
      