
        Henry Hart Rice, a real-estate broker who was instrumental in many major developments and won awards for his innovative deals, died on Thursday at his Manhattan home. He was 80 years old.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Rice, whose primary residence was in Katonah, N.Y., was chairman of James Felt Realty Services in Manhattan, where he worked for 39 years.
        Among his best-known transactions were helping to devise the complex real-estate finances that saved Carnegie Hall from demolition and assembling the land for the planned community of Reston, Va. For Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, he marketed the 12,000 apartments in Parkchester in the Bronx and sold the 3,500-apartment Parkmerced development in San Francisco.
        For New York Life Insurance Company, he brokered the residential and commercial development of Fresh Meadows in Queens, which included the first Bloomingdale's store outside Manhattan. He also handled numerous other office, retail and residential properties across the country.
        During his career, he won the Real Estate Board of New York's annual citation as the most ingenious realtor four times. The award was recently renamed for him. He served on the organization's board, was chairman of the Sales Brokers Committee and a director of the Brokerage Division. Lectured, Taught and Wrote
        He was also a vice president of the Realty Foundation and belonged to the boards of the New York University Real Estate Institute and Real Estate Review magazine. He lectured, taught and wrote for journals.
        Mr. Rice was born in Manhattan. He did not attend college and started work at the age of 15 in the clipping library of The New York Times. Eventually he entered the real-estate business as leasing broker and manager at Hanford & Henderson in 1932, then became a vice president of Butler & Baldwin in 1936.
        During World War II he held a succession of Federal posts and helped write the original rent control rules for New York City. He was an assistant to the Rent Administrator, technical adviser to the National Housing Administrator, chief of conversion management in the Public Housing Administration and its chief appraiser in the New York region.
        After the war he became a broker at Van Dam Mordecai, then at J. Clarence Davis Realty.
        He contributed to the Hospital for Joint Diseases, Yale University, New York Community Fund, Westchester Community College, Townsend Harris High School in Manhattan, John Jay College and the UJA-Federation.
        His first wife, the former Grace Hecker Rice, died in 1974. He is survived by his second wife, the former Margaret (Peggy) Schwarz; a daughter, Dr. Eve Rice of Bedford, N.Y.; a son, Edward, of Reston, Va.; a stepson, Edwin Stern of Manhattan; three stepdaughters, Maggie Terris of Watertown, Mass., Mary Grossman of Manhattan and Suzy Kunhardt of Chappaqua, N.Y.; four grandchildren and 13 stepgrandchildren.
      