
        Nestor Almendros, an Academy Award-winning cinematographer, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 61 years old.
        He died of lymphoma, said Robert Benton, the director and a friend and colleague.
        Only a very few cinematographers succeed in laying claim to public attention, but in the early 1970's the New York Times film critic Vincent Canby singled out as strikingly original Mr. Almendros's work in Francois Truffaut's "Bed and Board," and in Eric Rohmer's "My Night at Maud's" and "Claire's Knee." He ranked Mr. Almendros with Sven Nykvist, Ingmar Bergman's frequent collaborator, as one of the world's top cinematographers.  Recognized by the Academy
        It was not until 1979, however, that Mr. Almendros was widely recognized when he won an Academy Award for cinematography for Terrence Malick's "Days of Heaven." He was nominated again the next year for "Kramer vs. Kramer," and in 1981 for "The Blue Lagoon." The latter, a tropical trifle starring Brooke Shields, could not be completely dismissed by the critics because of Mr. Almendros's magical cinematographic palette.
        He also won a Cesar, the French equivalent of an Oscar, for "The Last Metro" in 1981, and the award for best cinematography given by the National Association of Film Critics for "My Night at Maud's" in 1969 and for Truffaut's "Wild Child" in 1970.
        Among the most recent of his more than 40 films were "Billy Bathgate," released last year and directed by Mr. Benton, and "Nobody Listened," an award-winning 1988 documentary about repression in Cuba.
        Mr. Almendros was born in Barcelona in 1930. After World War II, he moved to Cuba, following his father, a Republican Loyalist, who had gone to Havana at the end of the Spanish Civil War. Briefly, Mr. Almendros attended Havana University and then drifted to Rome where he enrolled in the Centro Sperimentale di Cinematografia.
        Moving to the United States, he taught Spanish at Vassar for two years in the late 1950's, then returned to Cuba in the wake of Fidel Castro's coming to power. While there, he made documentaries celebrating the Cuban revolution. With the New Wave in Paris
        In a short while, he was drawn to Paris by the work of the New Wave movie makers. His skill was soon recognized by directors like Truffaut and his career took off.
        His autobiography, "A Man With a Camera," was published in 1984 by Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
        Mr. Almendros discussed his craft in a 1971 interview with Mr. Canby: "After you've learned some basic mechanics, being a cameraman is not all that complicated, especially when you have an assistant to worry about focus and distance and that sort of thing. The contribution of a good cameraman begins long before production, in the selection of sets, locations, costumes."
        "Most cameramen are technicians, or liars," he said. "When I started, I found that my job consisted principally in de-lighting sets, that is, removing all the fake, conventional movie lighting that had been set up by lighting technicians. They were old-fashioned. They believed in a very glossy kind of photography, that faces should never be in a shadow, that there should always be a lot of back lighting, with no shadows in the sets anywhere."
        He is survived by his mother, Maria Almendros, and a brother, Sergio, both of Barcelona, and a sister, Maria Rosa Almendros of Havana.
      