
        Pare Lorentz, the writer and director whose socially conscious documentary films included "The Plow That Broke the Plains" and "The River," died yesterday at his home in Armonk, N.Y. He was 86 years old.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said his wife, Elizabeth Meyer Lorentz.
        Mr. Lorentz came to national attention in 1936 with his first film, "The Plow That Broke the Plains," a documentary on soil erosion in the West, which he produced, wrote and directed for the Resettlement Administration, a New Deal agency. It was the first Government-sponsored film for general release.
        President Franklin D. Roosevelt was so impressed by "The River," the 1938 film about flooding on the Mississippi, which Mr. Lorentz wrote, directed and produced for the Farm Security Administration, that he named the film maker head of the United States Film Service, when the service was created the next year. James Joyce called Mr. Lorentz's script "the most beautiful I have heard in 10 years." Like "The Plow That Broke the Plains," the film included a score by Virgil Thomson.
        In "The Fight for Life" (1940), a film that would now be called a docudrama, Mr. Lorentz dramatized what he described as "the shockingly bad record for infant and maternal mortality" in the United States. Working as a Critic
        Mr. Lorentz, who was born in Clarksburg, W. Va., attended West Virginia Wesleyan University and the University of West Virginia before moving to New York, where he reviewed films for Judge magazine. As a critic, he called on Hollywood to make tougher, more realistic films.
        In 1930, he became a film critic for The New York American and later wrote on film for Vanity Fair and Town and Country magazines and produced a syndicated column for King Features.
        The director of the Rural Resettlement Program, a relief agency attached to the Agriculture Department, then asked Mr. Lorentz to help publicize the plight of farmers in the dust bowl. With a budget of $10,000, he wrote and directed "The Plow That Broke the Plains."
        When Congress refused to appropriate funds for the Film Service, Mr. Lorentz served a brief, troubled stint at RKO as director and producer. That came to an end, with no film to show for it, soon after America's entry into the war. Mr. Lorentz served in the Army Air Forces, where he made more than 200 briefing films shown to pilots about to fly unfamiliar air routes for the Air Transport Command. He attained the rank of lieutenant colonel. Immediately after the war, he oversaw the production of film, music and theater for the occupied areas of Germany, Austria, Japan and Korea.
        In 1948, he formed his own film production company and tried, unsuccessfully, to produce a documentary about atomic-bomb testing. His last film, "The Nuremberg Trials," a project that required him to edit three million feet of captured Nazi atrocity films, was made in 1946.
        During the last three decades, Mr. Lorentz was a film consultant and gave lectures on documentary film at colleges and universities.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Pare Jr., of Washington; a daughter, Matilda Grey of East Chatham, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      