
        Wheeler McMillen, a noted chronicler of the vast changes in 20th-century American agriculture, died on Wednesday at the Heritage Hall Nursing Home in Leesburg, Va. He was 99 years old.
        Mr. McMillen was a pioneer in finding industrial uses for agricultural crops and previously wasted byproducts. It was a cause that led to a new science when he and Henry Ford formed a lobby to champion it in 1935.
        In a lifetime of telling the story of farming, Mr. McMillen had many platforms. Most powerful among them was the Farm Journal, the country's biggest periodical dedicated to agriculture. He joined the Farm Journal as its editor in chief in 1939. He stepped down in 1955 but stayed on as a vice president and director for another eight years.
        Even while occupying the top editor's office in Philadelphia, Mr. McMillen was not far from the farm: He worked one in Hopewell, N.J.
        He was born and raised on a 125-acre family farm near Ada, Ohio, and attended Ohio Northern University. After a few years as a newspaper reporter and editor, he became associate editor of Country Home magazine in 1922 and was its editorial director when he moved to the Farm Journal.
        Mr. McMillen and Henry Ford formed the National Farm Chemurgic Council, a reference to a branch of applied chemistry dealing with the use of organic raw materials. The idea of the council, which lives on, was to recycle wastes like corn cobs or walnut shells for manufacturing, and use soybean oil as an ingredient in paints and varnishes.
        Mr. McMillen's 15 books books included the prophetic "Too Many Farmers" (William Morrow & Company), which in 1929 foretold the decline in the farming population without a loss in food production. Most recently he wrote "Feeding Multitudes: A History of What Made America Rich," published in 1981 by Interstate Printers and Publishers Inc.
        He served on many government panels and was a past member and vice president of the national executive board of the Boy Scouts of America,
        Mr. McMillen is survived by his son, Robert D., of Lovettsville, Va.
      