
        William E. Simkin, who helped prevent national strikes and resolved thousands of labor disputes as the Federal Government's chief labor mediator and as a leading private arbitrator, died on Wednesday at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 85 years old.
        He died of natural causes, his family said.
        Mr. Simkin was the longest-serving director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, from 1961 to 1969. He expanded its scope and influence and played a critical role in averting or settling strikes in vital industries like airlines, automobile manufacturing and steel mills.
        As the Government's chief labor peacemaker, he projected a soothing image that fit the part. A pipe smoker and lifelong Quaker, he was unflappable and patient and spoke with a deep but slow and soft voice. The labor mediator Theodore W. Kheel called him "a giant among neutrals in labor relations, who was trusted by both sides and had that essential ingredient of common sense."  Called Out of Retirement
        As a private arbitrator, Mr. Simkin was entrusted by labor and management in some of America's biggest businesses with deciding critical but deadlocked issues. The companies included Goodyear, Greyhound, National Can, Bethlehem Steel and others in the automobile, newspaper and clothing industries.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Simkin was called out of retirement to grapple with a nearly century-old Indian tribal rivalry between the Navajos and Hopis over two million acres in Arizona. He helped resolve the dispute.
        Born in Merrifield, N.Y., Mr. Simkin grew up in nearby Poplar Ridge. He graduated from Earlham College, where he was student president.
        In 1928 he became principal of the high school in Sherwood, N.Y.. From 1930-32 he taught science at the Friends School in Brooklyn while studying economics at Columbia University.
        His career evolved when he went to the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania from 1937-39 as an instructor and student under Dr. George W. Taylor, who became his mentor and asked him to help arbitrate a dispute in the hosiery industry. He began arbitrating full time, with a break from 1942-45 working for the National War Labor Board, heading its shipbuilding and steel commissions.
        President John F. Kennedy appointed him mediation director, and President Lyndon B. Johnson retained him.
        At the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, he stressed preventive programs to settle disputes before they became crises, started joint training of management and labor officers on grievances, revived a labor-management panel to help settle strikes and strengthened relations with state mediators.
        He taught at Harvard University's business school from 1969-73 and wrote a major book in his field, "Mediation and the Dynamics of Collective Bargaining" (B.N.A., 1971). He was a former president of the National Academy of Arbitrators.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ruth Commons; two sons, Thomas, of Arlington, Va., and Peter, of Seattle; a brother, Robert, of Poplar Ridge, six grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
      