
        Former Prime Minister Menachem Begin, a leader of the revolt that created the state of Israel and later the country's only leader to sign a peace treaty with an Arab neighbor, died early today in a Tel Aviv hospital.
        Mr. Begin, who was 78 years old and in rapidly deteriorating health, had been taken to Ichilov Hospital a week ago after suffering a heart attack.
        He had been on a respirator ever since, and by the end had also had a pacemaker implanted and had needed dialysis treatments. Prayer for the Dead
        Within minutes of his death at 3:30 A.M. today, the hospital's cantor reportedly rushed to his bedside the chant the Kaddish, the Jewish prayer for the dead. Although Mr. Begin's death did not come as a shock, there were no immediately announced plans for his funeral. Under strict Jewish law, burial is supposed to take place as soon as possible.  [ Obituary, Page B7. ]
        The death was announced at 5 A.M. on the Army Radio, which went on to play doleful Israeli songs and to broadcast highlights of Mr. Begin's career. Above all, this included his encounters in the late 1970's with President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt that led to a peace treaty between the two countries.
        Mr. Begin and Mr. Sadat, who was assassinated in 1981, shared the 1978 Nobel Peace Prize, a high point of Mr. Begin's leadership. From that height, however, he sank into despair after presiding over Israel's war in Lebanon in 1982. The Government said the drive into Lebanon was initiated to remove a threat from Palestinian guerrillas, but it bogged Israel in a quagmire of death and rising domestic dissent.
        In 1983, burdened even then by poor health and listless after the death of his wife, Aliza, Mr. Begin resigned as Prime Minister. He spent the rest of his years as a virtual recluse.
        The radio announcement of Mr. Begin's death was succinct.
        "The Government of Israel announces with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Menachem Begin in the 79th year of his life," it said. "Menachem Begin was Prime Minister of the years 5737 to 5743." Those years on the Jewish calender correspond to 1977 and 1983. Praise From Leaders
        Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, before convening a special Cabinet meeting, paid tribute to Mr. Begin, saying, "The entire people of Israel, in Israel and throughout the world, mourn today the demise of their chosen son, the national leader and sixth Prime Minister."
        Words of high praise also came from Yitzhak Rabin, Mr. Begin's predecessor as Prime Minister and recently elected once again to head the opposition Labor Party. Mr. Rabin praised Mr. Begin as "the son of a special generation in the life of the Jewish people, characterized by the Holocaust and the resurrection" that was the birth of the state of Israel in 1948.
        There are inevitable questions about the possible effects of Mr. Begin's death on Israeli public life. Although he had not been an active force for many years, his spirit hovered over his Likud Party while his son, Benjamin Begin, rose rapidly to become one of its leading Parliament members. The younger Mr. Begin declared last year his intention to seek the party leadership once Mr. Shamir, 76, stepped aside.
        Some political commentators had speculated that Mr. Begin's death could add an emotional element to the campaign that has just begun for parliamentary elections scheduled for June 23. Likud, which has governed since 1977, is being seriously challenged by a Labor Party believed to have been reinvigorated by Mr. Rabin's assumption of leadership.
      