
        Anthony J. Pisani, a noted orthopedist who performed surgery on sports players as a team doctor for the Brooklyn Dodgers and the New York Giants, died Friday at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 80 years old.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Pisani had been chief of orthopedic surgery at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan and the New York State Hospital for Crippled Children, now known as the Helen Hayes Hospital, in Haverstraw. He also once headed Hazard Memorial Hospital in Long Branch, N.J., and was a clinical professor at New York University and a consultant to the state and Federal labor departments and the United States Army.
        Broken bones, sprained joints and muscle, ligament and tendon problems kept him busy as the Dodgers team doctor from 1946 to 1951 and as the Giants orthopedic surgeon from 1956 to 1974. In 1963, for example, he removed a troublesome bursa sac from the right elbow of the quarterback Y. A. Tittle's throwing arm. Best known for his knee operations, Dr. Pisani once operated on the knees of three Giants in a single morning. Gambling Investigation
        He quit the Giants in 1974 amid an investigation by the Manhattan District Attorney resulting in a 40-count indictment against two men accused of being bookies in a $25-million-a-year gambling system and using inside information from the doctor on the players' health. Dr. Pisani was not charged and his lawyer said that the doctor had been exploited by others and that he had cooperated fully in testimony to the grand jury.
        Dr. Pisani was born in Manhattan and graduated from Fordham University and New York University Medical School. He retired from practicing medicine in 1985.
        His first wife, the former Angela McElligott, is dead.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Eugenie M. Wise; four daughters, Bernadette Ellingsen of Lloyd Harbor, L.I.; Angela, of Oyster Bay, L.I., and Victoria M. Douglas and Paula Nicoletti, both of West Palm Beach, Fla.; two sons, Arthur M., of Plymouth, Minn., and Peter M., of Maryville, Tenn.; two brothers, Bernard, of Englewood, N.J., and Joseph, of Stuart, Fla., and 13 grandchildren.
      