
        With old comrades and their children singing a militant Zionist anthem at his graveside, former Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel was laid to rest today in the rocky soil of the Mount of Olives, overlooking this city of troubles and dreams.
        At his own request, Israel gave an unadorned farewell to Mr. Begin, who had died 13 hours earlier and was buried before the sun faded, in accordance with Jewish practice.
        There were no eulogies, only some prayers, a few tears and many recollections from the powerful and the ordinary about his underground struggles for a Jewish homeland and his turbulent years as Prime Minister from 1977 to 1983.
        They spoke of the heights that he had reached in helping forge the state of Israel and in signing a peace treaty with Egypt years later, but also the depths of despair to which he sank as he presided over his country's widely condemned war in Lebanon a decade ago.
        Mr. Begin's politics inspired passion, and today some Israelis felt his death so passionately that they threw themselves onto his grave.
        Their tributes in conversations and interviews were echoed elsewhere.
        In Washington, President Bush cited Mr. Begin's "very courageous, farsighted role" in negotiating with President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt in the late 1970's to produce Israel's only peace treaty with an Arab country. The Israeli leader shared the 1978 Nobel Peace Prize with Mr. Sadat, who was assassinated in 1981 by Muslim fundamentalists opposed to the treaty.
        Former President Jimmy Carter, who brokered the peace agreement at Camp David, Md., also paid tribute to Mr. Begin today, and so did Egypt, whose Foreign Minister, Amr Moussa, said the Israeli's "understanding of land for peace paid great service to the peace process."
        There was perhaps an element of politics in Mr. Moussa's remarks, for they underscored the no-compromise position on territory of Mr. Begin's successor, Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, in the current Middle East regional peace talks. Nation's Leadership Turns Out
        But in Israel this was not a day for politics as the country's leaders -- opposition figures, military chiefs, senior judges and many members of Parliament -- stood shoulder to shoulder with simple people who wanted to say goodbye to a man they described, again and again, as special.
        Conspicuously missing was Housing Minister Ariel Sharon, who had commanded the Lebanon invasion and whom Mr. Begin felt had betrayed him about the nature of the war. Mr. Sharon was said to have been out of the country.
        Mr. Begin's admirers included Mazal Cohen, an old woman who came to Israel from Iran in 1949 and who watched as others -- more famous and better-dressed -- assembled in a meager funeral home in a poor religious neighborhood of Jerusalem. "There weren't any others like him," Mrs. Cohen said.
        She was like countless others, who supported Mr. Begin because they felt that, even though he came here from Poland, he was a champion of the Sephardim, Jewish immigrants from the Middle East and North Africa.
        "There was no one like him," Mrs. Cohen repeated. "And there won't be anyone like him again."  Chooses Obscurity
        Mr. Begin, who was 78 years old, had been in poor health for a long time, a virtual recluse since leaving office nine years ago, rarely seen in public and even more infrequently quoted. His death had come as no surprise.
        But that did not mean there were no nerves scraped raw. Thousands of Israelis gathered at the funeral home, pushing and surging against phalanxes of overtaxed police officers for a final look at one of the nation's titans, now a slight figure borne on a stretcher and shrouded in a black and white prayer shawl.
        From the funeral home, his body was taken in a procession, through Arab neighbhoods in East Jerusalem, to the Mount of Olives, where the world's oldest Jewish cemetery sprawls across a slope. There, some traditional Jews believe, the dead will be the first to rise when the Messiah comes, and they will follow him into Jerusalem's Old City.
        Groups of Palestinians watched silently as the blue van carrying Mr. Begin's body passed them, followed by streams of buses filled with mourners. Security along the route was intense, and there were no reported incidents.
        It was no secret, though, that Mr. Begin, who believed fiercely in the right of Jews to hold onto disputed territories that form part of the biblical land of Israel, was no hero in these Arab neighborhoods through which he made his final journey.
        On the Mount of Olives, thousands of other Israelis waited, a roiling crowd that pushed so hard for a view of the proceedings that some members of the Begin family found it impossible to get to the graveside.
        Mr. Begin's body was carried to the site by former comrades in the guerrilla movement, Irgun Zvai Leumi, which fought in the 1940's for a Jewish homeland in what was then British-mandated Palestine.
        His son and political heir, Benjamin Begin, recited the Kaddish, the prayer for the dead. Then, Menachem Begin found his final resting place alongside his wife, Aliza, whose death in November 1982 broke his heart and his spirit.
        At this point, the service turned from a traditional Jewish funeral into a Zionist wake. The younger Begin, Prime Minister Shamir and dozens of other old warriors and their offspring left the rabbis silent as they broke into the anthem of Betar, the Zionist Revisionists' youth movement that Menachem Begin had joined in Poland at the age of 15.
        "From the pit of rot and dust, through blood and sweat, a race will rise, proud and generous and relentless," they sang.  Stones and Psalms
        As the sun set and the family and dignitaries left, many people -- old, young, men, women -- pushed past police officers to hurl themselves onto the gentle mound of Mr. Begin's grave. They had waited for hours, and now they kissed his grave and placed stones on it. Some read psalms.
        "People are hurting," one man said. "They are casting themselves on his grave out of great love."
        In a statement of tribute, Prime Minister Shamir recalled the high points of Mr. Begin's life and career. "His vast heritage is chiseled in his deeds," he said, "and appears in his writings, a heritage that bespeaks the right of the Jewish people to its homeland."
        But others talked about a different Menachem Begin, a man who could be formal, yet simple and approachable.
        "He was a great leader of the people of Israel but he was humble," said a man who lives near the funeral parlor. "Years ago, I used to see him on my way to work, as he would walk to the Parliament. I would say, 'Hello, Mr. Begin,' and he would bow and say, 'Good morning, my friend.'
        "He had great love for people."
      