
        Jerome Hall, an authority on American criminal law and jurisprudence, died on March 1 at the Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center in San Francisco, his hometown. He was 91 years old.
        The University of California's Hastings College of Law in San Francisco, where he was professor emeritus, said the cause of death was pneumonia.
        Professor Hall established an international reputation as a scholar and author on criminal law and legal philosophy. Much of his work appeared in translation in Europe and Asia.
        His "General Principles of Criminal Law" first appeared in 1947; a second edition was issued by the Michie Company in 1960. His "Readings in Jurisprudence," first published by the Bobbs-Merrill Company, in 1938, had its most recent edition 10 years ago, also published by the Michie. A comprehensive work on the subject, it became widely used both in this country and in England.
        Another of his books, "Law, Social Science and Criminal Theory," also saw its latest edition in 1982, published by Fred B. Rothman & Company.
        Professor Hall, a native of Chicago, graduated from the University of Chicago, where he also obtained his law degree. He was admitted to the Illinois bar in 1923 but gave up law practice in 1929 for the career of a teacher and scholar. That took him to the University of North Dakota, Columbia and Harvard Universities and Louisiana State University.
        In 1939, he joined the law faculty of Indiana University, from which he retired in 1970, holding its highest rank, that of distinguished professor of law. At the time he was 69, and he then joined Hastings College's Sixty-Five Club of legal scholars, who are invited to San Francisco to lecture full time after retirement.
        Although in failing health, he continued to to come to the campus to teach every day until about six years ago, the law school said. He left his papers to the Sixty-Five Club archival collection at Hastings.
        Professor Hall is survived by a daughter, Heather Adele Hall of Indianapolis.
      