
        Alfred J. Callahan, a former State Supreme Court justice in the Bronx, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        Mr. Callahan had lung cancer and died of heart failure, his family said.
        Among his most publicized cases in his 22 years on the bench were proceedings in the 1970's centering on a rent strike at Co-op City in the Bronx, where residents withheld $20 million to protest an increase in monthly charges.
        Mr. Callahan carried on a family tradition of politics and government. His father, Joseph, was a minority leader in the State Assembly, an appellate judge and a personal adviser to Edward J. Flynn, the longtime Bronx County Democratic chairman.
        The younger Mr. Callahan was an aide to United States Senator Robert F. Wagner at the state Constitutional Convention in 1938. He was assistant counsel to Gov. Averell Harriman in 1955 and counsel to the state Civil Defense Commission in 1956-57.
        In the 1960's he was an adviser to the Bronx Democratic Chairman, Henry McDonough, and served as chairman of the party's Law Committee and counsel to the Bronx Public Administrator.
        He became a civil court judge in 1964 and was elected to the State Supreme Court in 1973. A City Bar Association committee criticized him and nine other promoted judges for timing their resignations from the lower courts so their successors could be chosen by party bosses without a primary.
        Mr. Callahan was born in the Bronx. After graduating from Mount St. Mary's College in 1932 and Harvard Law School in 1935, he began working for the Manhattan law firm of Miller, Owen, Otis & Bailey. Later he joined the firm of Demov & Morris. He specialized in negligence, personal injury and liability cases.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Frances Wynne; three sons, J. Michael of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., Alfred Jr. of Manhattan and Charles of Washington; a daughter, Frances Dalessandro of Manhattan; two grandchildren; and three sisters, Mary Ayers of the Bronx, Joan Callahan of Southampton, L.I., and Ann Healey of Dunellen, N.J.
      