
        Asaf Messerer, a Russian teacher, ballet master and dancer, died on Saturday at his home in Moscow. He was 88 years old.
        He had been ill for several weeks with bronchitis, said a friend, Robert Weiss.
        Mr. Messerer was one of the strongest and most individual principal dancers in the Bolshoi Ballet of Moscow, with which he performed from 1921 to 1954.
        Mr. Messerer was born in Vilna, which is now Vilnius, Lithuania, and began studying ballet as a teen-ager. After private classes at the school of Mikhail Mordkin, he performed with the ballet company of the Theater of Working Youth and then entered the senior class of the Bolshoi school.  Skilled on Various Levels
        In his first leading role, he created a stir by substituting naturalistic acting for conventional mime as Siegfried in "Swan Lake." His technical virtuosity took Soviet male dancing to new levels, but he was as convincing a dramatic or character dancer as a premier danseur.
        He was the choreographer of "Ballet School," created for the Bolshoi's 1962 tour, and of the razzle-dazzle concert pas de deux "Spring Waters," both of which helped to define Bolshoi bravura dancing in America. "If you want to see an exciting exhibition of some of the most dazzling ballet technique in the world, watch the Bolshoi Ballet in 'Ballet School,' " Allen Hughes wrote in The New York Times in 1962.
        Mr. Messerer also became known as one of the great Russian ballet pedagogues. He began teaching at the Bolshoi school in 1923 and took over the classe de perfection, or highest professional class, in 1942. He was often sent abroad to teach, with his sister and partner, Sulamith Messerer, and his wife, Irina Tikhomirnova, who died in 1985. Mr. Messerer was ballet master of the Bolshoi's foreign tours in the late 1950's and early 1960's, and took on that position with Maurice Bejart's Ballet of the 20th Century in 1960 in Brussels, drawing critical raves for the company.
        Mr. Messerer's system of teaching and his ideas about ballet style are recorded in his book "Classes in Classical Dance," published in the United States in 1975.
        He continued to teach at the Bolshoi school and also taught abroad, in the United States and elsewhere, up to his death.
        He is survived by a son, Boris, a set designer for the Bolshoi, and by a niece, Maya Plisetskaya, the ballerina.
      