
        Dr. Milton Reder, an eye, ear, nose and throat specialist whose medical practice in Manhattan spanned nearly 70 years, died on Sunday at his home on the Upper East Side. Dr. Reder, who became known as a doctor for celebrities and for banishing pain with legally bought cocaine, was 92 years old.
        Ill for some time, he died of natural causes but was at his Park Avenue practice as recently as Saturday, said his son, Milton A. Reder of Brookline, Mass.
        Born in Dayton, Ohio, and raised in New York City, the elder Dr. Reder received his license in 1922 upon graduation from New York University Medical School. In private practice, he also performed plastic and reconstructive surgery but left that field in the 1950's to focus on the relief of pain. A 10 Percent Solution
        For some 50 years Dr. Reder swabbed his patients' nostrils with a 10 percent cocaine solution to deaden nerves for ailments like severe headaches, back pains or ringing ears. Those who took their pains to him included notables like Hedy Lamarr, Gen. George S. Patton, George Burns and David Brenner.
        He was one of 20 Manhattan physicians who in 1987 were asked by state health officials, concerned about cocaine addiction, to substitute nonaddictive painkillers. Most of them did. But Dr. Reder told an interviewer in 1989 that the request had been prompted by "hysteria" and that none of his patients had ever got "high" or had become addicted to cocaine, which he obtained from pharmaceutical companies.
        He said he was unconcerned about possible legal action and continued to use cocaine as medicine because, he said, nothing worked like it did to shut out acute pains. Nevertheless, his son said yesterday that Dr. Reder switched to officially endorsed drugs like the local anesthetic Xylocaine about that time.
        Dr. Reder is also survived by his wife, the former Violet Donovan; a sister, Sybil Reder of Manhattan; nine grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      