
        Laslo Benedek, a cameraman, screenwriter and director whose directing credits include "Death of a Salesman" (1951) and "The Wild One" (1953), died on Wednesday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died after a short illness, said Tonda Marton, a friend.
        Mr. Benedek was born in Budapest. He pursued a medical career at schools in Vienna and Berlin, paying for his education by working as an assistant cameraman. Soon, his interest in movie making took precedence, and he worked as a film editor in France and as a screenwriter in England.
        In 1937 he wound up in Hollywood, where he performed a series of lesser jobs in the film industry until 1948, when he directed Frank Sinatra in a technicolor musical called "The Kissing Bandit."  Chosen by Stanley Kramer
        The high point of Mr. Benedek's career came in 1951 when the producer Stanley Kramer assigned him to direct the screen version of Arthur Miller's "Death of a Salesman," with Fredric March as Willy Loman and Mildred Dunnock as his wife, Linda. Mr. Benedek received the Hollywood Foreign Press Association's Golden Globe Award as best director of the year, and a nomination for best director from the Screen Director's Guild.
        Two years later, he directed "The Wild One," starring Marlon Brando. The film, about a gang of menacing motorcyclists, grew out of a terrifying encounter Mr. Benedek had with a similar gang when on a Sunday drive in California.
        Like many Hollywood film makers, he also worked in television, directing more than 75 shows, including episodes of "Rawhide" and "The Untouchables."
        From 1976 to 1980, Mr. Benedek was chairman of the graduate film program at New York University's School of the Arts. In 1983, he became a visiting professor of film at the Annenberg School of Communication at the University of Pennsylvania. Later, he taught at the Film Academy in Munich, Germany; at Rice University in Houston, and at Columbia University in New York City.
        His companion was Danielle DeMers.
        He is survived by two daughters, Melinda Norton of Los Angeles and Barbara Rhodes of London.
      