
        Alvin Schwartz, a best-selling author of children's books -- many widely praised for their wit and folklore but some criticized as unduly scary for young readers -- died yesterday at Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 64 years old and lived in Princeton.
        He died of lymphoma, his family said.
        Mr. Schwartz, whose writing career began as a sideline to help support his family, published more than 50 books in the last 30 years. His latest, "And the Green Grass Grows All Around," published by Harper Collins this month, is a collection of folk poetry.
        Last year he wrote two best sellers for children, "Ghosts" and "Scary Stories 3," both from Harper Collins. Student polls often voted his books as favorites. All told, he sold more than three million books, his publisher said.
        Despite popular and critical acclaim, he caused controversy for featuring what one reviewer described as "vengeful witches, walking ghouls, disgusting zombies and troubled ghosts." Vivid Images
        Some parents and teachers feared the images were too vivid for tender minds. A group in a Seattle suburb recently campaigned to remove the scary books from a local library, but it refused.
        Many of his books were on lighthearted themes and drew on folklore. "Cross Your Fingers, Spit in Your Hat" (Lippincott, 1974) was about superstitions.
        "Ten Copycats in a Boat and Other Riddles" (Harper, 1980) contained lines guaranteed to make youngsters giggle and parents groan, like: "When is a car not a car? When it turns into a parking lot."
        His first volume of tongue-twisters, "A Twister of Twists, a Tangle of Tongues" (Lippincott 1972) was described by a New York Times reviewer as "one of the most delightful children's books I've come across in years." A sample: "The sixth sheik's sixth sheep's sick."
        Mr. Schwartz also wrote informative books. "Stores" (Macmillan, 1977) described how stores operate. "The People's Choice" (Dutton, 1968) told about politics and government.
        For parents he wrote "How to Fly a Kite, Catch a Fish, Grow a Flower, and Other Activities for You and Your Child" (Macmillan, 1965) and "To Be a Father" (Crown, 1967).
        The Times said that his scary stories appealed to "a primal need to be scared out of one's wits," and that "these stories are the stuff nightmares are made of." A review of "In a Dark, Dark Room" (Harper, 1984) called it "a mostly ghostly" and "nicely nasty collection."
        Mr. Schwartz was born in Brooklyn. After serving in the Navy, he graduated from Colby College and earned a master's degree in journalism at Northwestern University. He reported for The Binghamton Press from 1951 until 1955.
        Surviving are his wife of 37 years, the former Barbara Carmer; two sons, John of Stratford, N.J., and Peter of Portland, Ore.; two daughters, Nancy of Brookline, Mass., and Elizabeth Johnson of Ipswich, Mass.; a sister, Barbara Alper of Brooklyn, and a
      