
        Prof. Deane Montgomery, a leading theoretical mathematician who taught at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, N.J., for more than three decades, died on Sunday at his home in Carolina Meadows, a retirement community in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 82 years old.
        He died in his sleep, apparently from heart disease, said Rachel D. Gray, a spokeswoman for the institute.
        Professor Montgomery, the mentor of a generation of young mathematicians, focused on topology, a comparatively recent branch of mathematics. It analyzes the intrinsic features of objects, often while twisting and deforming the space they occupy. Topologists say that, to them, the shapes of a doughnut and a coffee cup are equivalent because they can push and stretch one to form the other.
        The study of topology was charted by Jules Henry Poincare, the 19th-century French mathematician and physicist. But most significant advances in the discipline were scored only this century, and many of them were first introduced in the topology seminar Professor Montgomery conducted for many years at the institute's School of Mathematics.
        A result of this work drew attention in 1952 when he and two fellow American mathematicians, Andrew Gleason and Leo Zippin, solved a poser regarding locally Euclidean topological groups known as Hilbert's Fifth Problem. Raised in 1900, it was included in a list of conjectures presented to his colleagues by the German mathematician David Hilbert.
        Professor Montgomery was born in Weaver, Minn., and earned his master's and Ph.D. degrees at the University of Iowa. He first became associated with the Institute for Advanced Study as a member in the School of Mathematics in 1945. He joined the permanent faculty as a professor in 1951 and had held emeritus status since 1980.
        Over the years, Professor Montgomery also taught at Smith College and Princeton and Yale Universities. He was a past president of the International Mathematical Society, past president of the American Mathematical Society and 1988 recipient of its Steele Award, and a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        Professor Montgomery is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Katherine Fulton; a daughter, Mary Heck of Chapel Hill, and two granddaughters.
      