
        Frank Ritter Shumway, a retired manufacturer, philanthropist, sportsman and Presbyterian minister, died March 9 at his Rochester home. He was 85 years old.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Shumway, a native of Rochester, graduated from the Hotchkiss School and Princeton University. He earned a master's degree in divinity at University College, Oxford, in 1931.
        Three years later, he joined the Ritter Company, a manufacturer of equipment for hospitals, doctors, dentists and laboratories, which had been founded by his grandfather. The Rochester-based company merged into the Ritter Pfaudler Corporation in 1965 and later became known as the Sybron Corporation, a conglomerate Mr. Shumway founded in 1968.
        Mr. Shumway became a company director in 1935, treasurer in 1940 and president in 1953. He held that post until 1965, when he became chairman, serving until 1971. He was honorary chairman of Sybron until 1976. The company was sold several years ago. His directorships included the Xerox Corporation and the Lehman Corporation.
        Mr. Shumway was a past president of the United States Chamber of Commerce and twice of the Empire State Chamber. His affiliations included the Federal Advisory Council on Employment Security, Project Hope, the Presbyterian Foundation, the University of Rochester and the Rochester Institute of Technology. Among his many other beneficiaries were the Y.M.C.A. and the Eastman Dental Clinic.
        As a Presbyterian clergyman, he served as an assistant pastor of the Larchmont Avenue Church in Larchmont, N.Y.
        An avid yachtsman and figure skater, Mr. Shumway was a past national chief commander of the United States Power Squadrons as well as president of the United States Figure Skating Association.
        Mr. Shumway is survived by a daughter, the Rev. Mary Ellen Gaylord of Park City, Utah; two sons, Frank R. Jr. of Rochester, and Charles L. of Naples, Fla.; his sister, Mrs. Helen S.  Mayer of Greenwich, Conn.; 15 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      