
        Paul N. Ylvisaker, who championed cities and the urban underclass as a planner, government official, foundation executive and educator, died on Tuesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 70 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Ylvisaker headed President Lyndon B. Johnson's Task Force on Cities and helped forge his model-cities program. As the Ford Foundation's public affairs director, he funneled money to social programs predating the Federal war on poverty.
        Lamenting the decline of cities, he wrote in Life magazine: "Men may find God in nature, but when they look at cities they are viewing themselves. And what Americans see mirrored in their cities these days is not very flattering."
        He taught at Princeton, Yale and Harvard, where he was also was the dean who led the Graduate School of Education in a sometimes wrenching decade of transformation. He remained on the faculty until his death, teaching ethics and philanthropy.
        He served as New Jersey's first state Commissioner of Community Affairs. He unveiled a visionary concept of an urban complex for the Meadowlands, then a marshland of foxtail reeds and world-class garbage dumps. He headed a commission that ended decades of deadlock and eventually led to the construction of the stadium, arena and racetrack and nearby stores and housing.
        He also proved to be a man of courage and gritty street smarts. Soon after he took office, in 1967, riots erupted in Newark, killing 26 people. In the tense aftermath, the State Police and the National Guard were conducting a house-to-house search for weapons in Plainfield. Leading the contingent were four armored personnel carriers, mounted with machine guns and loaded with soldiers bristling with bayoneted rifles, pistols and submachine guns.
        Fearing the ominous symbolism and possible reaction, he ran into the street waving his arms in front of the convoy and shouting, "Stop! Stop! This is a peaceful community." The vehicles halted. After he conferred with authorities, the search resumed, but in less provocative jeeps. Harvard Degrees
        Dr. Ylvisaker (pronounced EL-vuh-saw-ker) was born in St. Paul. His father was a Lutheran minister and college president. He graduated from Mankato State Teachers College in 1942 and at Harvard earned a master's degree in public administration in 1945 and a doctorate in political economics and government in 1948.
        Leaving government in 1970, he taught at Princeton and Yale.
        He returned to Harvard as dean in 1972, when Federal grants were drying up and enrollment was plummeting. He guided the education school to explore broad education theory and philosophy and child development. In later years, he focused on practicality, with courses on politics, computers, school leadership and community support. He also expanded the ratio of women and minorities among students and faculty.
        His wife of 44 years, Elizabeth, died last year. He is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth of Meredith, N.H.; three sons, Mark, of Fort Myers, Fla., Peter, of Hightstown, N.J., and David, of Washington; two brothers, John, of Michigan, and David, of Indiana, and two sisters, Elizabeth Brush, of Florida and Barbara Newsom, of New Hampshire.
      