
        Dr. Louis J. Gerstman, a neuropsychologist who was a co-inventor of the talking computer portrayed as HAL in the movie "2001: A Space Odyssey," died on Tuesday at his home in Malvern, Pa.
        He was 61 years old and also lived in Manhattan.
        He died of lung cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Gerstman, a professor at City College, specialized in speech processes and disorders. He also did extensive research on strokes and brain trauma, working for 21 years with New York University's Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine. Witness at Garrison Trial
        As an authority on voice tape recordings and "voiceprint" spectograms, he was a crucial witness at the 1973 trial that acquitted District Attorney Jim Garrison of New Orleans of bribery charges. Dr. Gerstman testified that a tape purported to be that of Mr. Garrison had been "fraudulently fabricated" by splicing.
        At City College he was in charge of the doctoral programs in experimental cognition, including clinical neuropsychology, sleep research, psychopharmacology and physiological psychology. Known for his accessibility, he was a mentor to more than 300 doctoral candidates, an unusually large number.
        He was a researcher and consultant for Western Electric, Haskins Laboratories, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Columbia University, New York Medical College and the Veterans Administration. The topics included learning disabilities, cleft palates, using computers to predict speech recovery after strokes and helium-altered speech.
        In a project for the International Business Machines Corporation, he developed the computer program for synthetic speech. I.B.M. and the "2001" film producers were unable to agree on using the program in the movie, so an actor was hired to speak the computer's lines.
        Dr. Gerstman cautioned about the role of computers. "There's a false sense of what computers can do," he said. "There's a major difference between playing chess and solving the problems of mankind. We don't want computers as decision makers."
        He was born in Buffalo. He graduated from the University of Buffalo in 1949 at the age of 19 and earned a master's degree from Harvard in 1952 and a doctorate from New York University in 1957.
        He started teaching at City University in 1966 at Queens College and since 1969 had been at City College. He wrote, edited and reviewed for professional journals.
        Dr. Gerstman was previously married and divorced. He is survived by his wife, the former Carolyn Marchitell; a daughter, Lizbeth R. Flint of Sunnyvale, Calif., and two brothers, Hubert A., and Eugene J., both of Buffalo.
      