
        Gian Carlo Wick, a theoretical physicist whose work contributed to understanding of the symmetries underlying the universe, died on Monday in a hospital in Turin, Italy, his native city.
        Dr. Wick, who was 82 years old, had returned to Italy after retiring as professor of physics at Columbia University in 1977.
        He died of cancer, the university said in a statement.
        Dr. Wick contributed to nuclear and particle physics starting in Italy in the 1930's when he was a collaborator of Enrico Fermi, the Nobel Prize winner. He continued to do such work into the 1970's, working at Columbia with the Nobelist T. D. Lee. Theories Aid Physicists
        A paper he published in 1951 presented a mathematical system for the quantum theory of electromagnetic radiation -- quantum electrodynamics for short. That system became a tool in many branches of theoretical physics, including particle and nuclear physics. Dr. Wick later developed a general theory to describe collisions of certain particles. The concept was put to use by physicists to analyze many particles discovered in the 1960's.
        In 1971, he and Dr. Lee proposed that the tiny vacuums between nuclear particles might be physical media capable of being excited to high energy. This led to experimental efforts to reach a quark-gluon plasma in high-energy, heavy-ion collisions -- an active field on the frontiers of present-day nuclear physics.
        Dr. Maurice Jacob, who was a student of Dr. Wick and who is a former head of the theoretical section of the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN), said his mentor's contributions foreshadowed the modern way to trade outgoing particles for incoming antiparticles and vice versa.
        "It is also to Wick," Dr. Jacob said, "that we owe the simple relation between range and mass, which is now common knowledge in particle physics: the shorter the range, the heavier the mass of the exchanged particles at the origin of the force." Work With Fermi
        Dr. Wick earned his Ph.D. at the University of Turin in 1931 and moved to Rome to work with Fermi from 1932 to 1937. He was then a physics professor at the Universities of Palermo, Padua and Rome before coming to this country in 1946. He held professorships at the University of Notre Dame, the University of California at Berkeley and the Carnegie Institute of Technology before joining the Columbia faculty in 1958.
        Twenty years later, after his retirement from Columbia, he returned to Italy to teach at the Scuola Normale Superiore in Pisa. He retired for a second time in 1984 and moved back to Turin.
        Dr. Wick is survived by his wife, Vanna, and two sons, Lionel, of Forest Hills, Queens, and Julian, of Tokyo.
      