
        Satyajit Ray, the versatile and prolific Indian film maker whose "Apu" trilogy of a childhood, youth and manhood in Bengal was one of the most luminous series in film history, died yesterday in Calcutta. He was 70 years old.
        Mr. Ray (his name was pronounced satya-JIT RAY) received an honorary Academy Award last month for lifetime achievement in cinema. He had been suffering from a heart ailment compounded by breathing problems, and was admitted to Belle Vue Hospital in Calcutta on Jan. 29. A three-member delegation from the Oscar committee visited him there on March 16 to present him with the golden statuette. The occasion was filmed, and Mr. Ray's acceptance speech was shown as part of the Academy Awards broadcast on March 30.
        Early this month, he also won two top Indian awards -- best film and best director -- for his 1991 movie, "Agantuk" ("The Visitor"). He was also the recipient of India's highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna.
        The first film in Mr. Ray's spare and sensitive triptych -- "Pather Panchali" ("Song of the Road") -- won a special jury prize at the 1956 Cannes International Film Festival and 15 other international awards and is considered by many experts to be one of the best films ever made. The two later works, "Aparajito" (1956) and "The World of Apu" (1959), confirmed his status as a highly talented and at times magical film maker.  Evoked 'An Entire World'
        Writing in The New York Times in 1985, Vincent Canby hailed Mr. Ray as a great and extraordinary movie maker, concluding that "no matter what the particular story, no matter what the social-political circumstances of the characters," his cinema "is so exquisitely realized that an entire world is evoked from comparatively limited details."
        To many Western filmgoers, Indian movies are Satyajit Ray, but to most poor, uneducated Indians, his austere delicacy is unsettling. "They usually show my films in Delhi at 8 o'clock on Sunday morning," he said in an interview in The Times. "Bengali films don't have a wide audience."
        After receiving his Oscar last month, Mr Ray said: "I have survived because of my foreign market. Without that I wouldn't have survived at all. I would have stopped making films and gone back to my old profession, advertising."
        Mr. Ray described himself as "completely self-taught" and said he had learned his craft by watching American films. Even so, he said in an interview in February, there was much more to be learned. Capturing Atmosphere
        "You had to find out yourself how to catch the hushed stillness of dusk in a Bengali village," he said, "when the wind drops and turns the ponds into sheets of glass dappled by the leaves of the trees, and the smoke from ovens settles in wispy trails over the landscape, and the plaintive blows on conch shells from homes far and wide are joined by the chorus of crickets, which rises as the light falls, until all one sees are the stars in the sky, and the stars blink and swirl in the thickets."
        In 1984, Mr. Ray had two heart attacks and stopped making films for five years. He came back in 1989 with "An Enemy of the People," an adaptation of the Ibsen play.
        Mr. Ray fashioned understated, humanistic films on the various classes of Bengali society, the clash of old and new values and the effects of rapid political and economic change on individuals. His best films won many awards at international festivals.
        "The Music Room" is a tragic 1958 study of an aristocrat in a crumbling mansion who squanders his dwindling resources on elegant musicales. "Two Daughters" combines two bittersweet 1961 vignettes, one about a lonely postmaster and his 10-year-old orphaned housekeeper, the other about an endangered marriage that unexpectedly works. "Charulata" (1964) is a subtle exploration of a marital triangle.
        A second Ray series, the Calcutta trilogy, consisted of "Days and Nights in the Forest" (1969), celebrating the joy of living; "The Adversary" (1971), dealing with the frustrations of joblessness, and "The Target" (1972), about a clever manipulator.
        Other major works by India's leading director included "Distant Thunder" (1973), about a man-made 1943 famine that killed five million Bengalis, and "The Home and the World" (1984), about an approaching revolution as observed by an affluent woman from her drawing room windows.  Two Manhattan Premieres
        Mr. Ray's "Branches of the Tree," which sought to depict the loss of ethics in an increasingly money-hungry India, was shown at the Walter Reade Theater at Lincoln Center in Manhattan last weekend. In his review in The New York Times, Vincent Canby, generally an admirer of Mr. Ray's, lamented that "nothing gets in the way of the talk." "The Stranger" will be shown at the Walter Reade Theater from May 22 to 26.
        Mr. Ray produced memorable images in his films and created credible characters in an indirect, Chekhovian manner, remaining sympathetic to them despite their follies and faults.
        Detractors accused Mr. Ray of muting the existence of evil and of being so exquisite that he came dangerously close to being precious. They said his movies were slow-paced and lacked continuity. The consensus was that Westerners had to be patient to follow his leisurely rhythm. "What some consider slow," he responded, "may seem eloquent to Indians."
        His Bengali-language films were in sharp contrast to the escapist and formula confections of music, dance, romance and violence of the vast Hindi-language film industry in Bombay.
        His comparatively small audience forced him to adhere to minuscule budgets (rising to $100,000 from $40,000 over the decades) and to do much of the work himself. In addition to directing, he wrote scripts and music, designed sets, operated cameras, was sometimes the producer and even supervised advertising copy.
        In recent weeks, as his country read of Mr. Ray's struggle for life in the Calcutta hospital, the state-run television system broadcast a retrospective of his best-known films in a tribute. Early Devotee of the Arts
        Satyajit Ray was born in Calcutta on May 2, 1921, into a family involved with art and literature. His grandfather, Upendrakisore Ray, wrote juvenile books and founded the first Bengali children's magazine. His father, Sukamar Ray, a merchant, wrote and illustrated two books of nonsense prose and verse that are still popular in Bengal. His mother specialized in handicrafts. His father died when he was 3, and he was raised in the home of a maternal uncle, a devotee of both Eastern and Western music.
        Mr. Ray graduated with honors from the University of Calcutta, where he majored in economics and minored in physics. He then studied painting for three years at Visva-Bharati University, which was headed by the Hindu poet Rabindranath Tagore. His major hobby was going to and reading about movies.
        He gained notice as a layout artist in the Calcutta office of a British advertising agency he joined in 1943, and became the art director in 1949. During a six-month business trip to London in 1950, he conferred with many film theorists and critics, saw Vittorio de Sica's neo-realist classic "The Bicycle Thief" and resolved to make movies.
        On a ship returning to India, he wrote the first draft of a screenplay adapted from "Pather Panchali," a novel by Bhibuti Bashan Bannerjee, which Mr. Ray had fondly illustrated. He then gained his first taste of movie making by assisting Jean Renoir, who was directing "The River" in Bengal.  Help From John Huston
        Mr. Ray tried repeatedly and unsuccessfully to raise money to film "Pather Panchali." Undaunted, he began shooting the movie in authentic locales on weekends and holidays in 1952 with about $3,000 he had borrowed and scraped together and with a largely amateur and unpaid crew. He sold all his possessions and pawned his wife's jewelry to keep the faltering project going, but after 18 months it seemed hopeless, until the director John Huston, visiting Calcutta, saw the rough cut of the film in progress. He praised it so highly that the West Bengali government agreed to finance it without a viewing, providing more than $35,000 in return for its ownership. "Pather Panchali" was completed after three years and was said to have bewildered government officials. They thought they had been financing a travelogue.  Son a Film Maker, Too
        Nonetheless, the poignant tale of a high-caste but poor village family was an immediate hit among educated Bengalis, and Mr. Ray became a full-time film maker.
        The "Apu" trilogy provided a microcosm of the changing society of modern India by progressing from a tightly knit family in a primitive village through migration to the cities and ending with the educated protagonist nearly isolated.
        The movie maker was an amiable, introspective 6-foot-4 figure with a strong face and a commanding voice. He spoke English with a British accent and had a passion for the cultural heritage of India. He and his wife, Bijoya Das, a former schoolteacher, lived for many years in a bright, airy, book-lined apartment overlooking a courtyard in downtown Calcutta. They had one son, Sandip, also a film maker.
        "Calcutta is love and hate with me," Mr. Ray told The New York Times. "I can't work anywhere else. I have my roots here. It can be a depressing place, but it's vital. I have no desire to work outside of India. I have had offers to go to California, but I'm not used to working in a studio setup. I fear I'll lose my freedom, my confidence, I don't know. I couldn't tolerate memos, front offices and temperamental stars."
        The Communist-led coalition in his home state of West Bengal declared today a state holiday to honor Mr. Ray and said he would be cremated with full state honors.
        He is survived by his wife and son.
      