
        Robert M. Ganger, a leader in advertising who was instrumental in introducing diet soda and who also popularized filtered cigarettes when he headed a major tobacco company, died on Thursday at his home in Gulfstream, Fla.
        He was 88 years old and died of respiratory failure, his family said.
        Mr. Ganger was a former president of the Lorillard tobacco company, where he introduced the first big-selling, high-filtration cigarette. He dubbed its new filter Micronite and called the brand Kent, borrowing the name of an executive who was dubious of the venture to help win him over.
        Kent's instant success led to a competitive battle for low-tar cigarettes. He correctly predicted that filtered and king-sized cigarettes would dominate the industry.
        But bouts of vertigo cut Mr. Ganger's career at Lorillard short, and he quit in 1953. As he recovered, he returned to his original profession of advertising and bought the D'Arcy agency, based in St. Louis, becoming its chairman and chief executive officer.
        Soon after, D'Arcy lost its longtime lead client, Coca-Cola, when the soft-drink company switched to an international agency for its growing global market. Mr. Ganger signed up Royal Crown Cola and urged it to develop a low-calorie soda, an idea shunned by major bottlers.
        The new product, Diet-Rite, was another instant hit and ushered in a new era in soft drinks.
        In his 14-year tenure, D'Arcy's billings quadrupled with a client roster that included McDonald's in its fledgling years, Anheuser-Busch and Mercedes-Benz. The agency is now merged into D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles. Advertising Man of Year
        Advertising Age, a trade publication, honored Mr. Ganger as Advertising Man of the Year in 1958. The next year he was elected chairman of the Association of American Advertising Agencies. In 1962, he was in a group of 12 advertising executives on the cover of Time magazine.
        Born in Greenville, Ohio, he graduated from Ohio State University in 1926. He worked his way through school playing trombone in dance bands and had offers from the Paul Whiteman and Fred Waring big bands.
        Instead, Mr. Ganger went into advertising, starting as an office boy for the Geyer agency in Dayton, Ohio. He moved with the firm to Manhattan in 1935, becoming a vice president and later a partner. A client, Lorillard, hired him in 1950 as its executive vice president and promoted him to president in 1952.
        His wife of 49 years, the former Jean Ward, died in 1979. He is survived by a son, Robert W., of Greenwich, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      