
        Ralph F. Batch, a pioneer in the development of state lotteries, died on Monday at the Northfield Manor Nursing Home in West Orange, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J.
        He died of complications from a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Batch, known as the dean in his industry, was in charge of creating the lottery for New Jersey and Illinois. He later ran Delaware's lottery as well.
        In his diverse career before the lotteries, Mr. Batch was the Mayor of Millburn, N.J., from 1962-71 and had served as its police and fire commissioner. He had worked as an agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and was a longtime executive for fire-fighting equipment companies.
        His first major accomplishment as a state lottery official was to make New Jersey's lottery a success when it began in 1970. The only other state lotteries then, in New York and New Hampshire, were off to slow starts. Variety of Games
        A believer in changing the games to pique bettors' interest, Mr. Batch developed 50-cent daily tickets, millionaire jackpots and other variations that became widely copied. "Lotteries are living things," he once said. "They have to be massaged to retain the excitement of the public."
        He was also a leader in using computerized vending machines for fast processing, reducing overhead costs and guarding against mistakes and cheating.
        Mr. Batch founded and headed the North American Association of State Lotteries. He later became a consultant as president of Advisory Services Associates and a director of its affiliate, Public Gaming Research Institute, the publisher of the trade magazine Public Gaming.
        He was born in Washington. After graduating from Georgetown University and its law school in 1935, he joined the F.B.I. He served until 1943, retiring as acting special agent in charge at Newark.
        For 28 years, he was secretary and vice president of the C-O-Two Fire Equipment Company, vice president of the Fyr Fyter Manufacturing Company and vice president of the Industrial Timer Corporation, all in New Jersey. Various Lottery Posts
        Gov. William Cahill of New Jersey appointed him to a 1969 commission proposing a state lottery, and the next year named him executive director of the operation. Mr. Batch left in 1974 to become the first superintendent of the new Illinois lottery, then in 1977 took over as executive director of the Delaware lottery. He stayed there until 1985, when he became a consultant.
        He is survived by his wife of 42 years, the former Helen Duncan; three sons, Robert D. of West Hartford, Conn., Ralph (Tuck) F. Jr. of High Bridge, N.J., and Bruce P. of Hollywood, Fla.; a brother, Joseph of Olney, Md.; a sister, Henrietta Smith of Arlington, Va., and three grandchildren.
      