
        Richard E. Gerstein, the longtime prosecutor in Dade County, Fla., who uncovered the first direct links between the Watergate burglary and the White House of President Richard M. Nixon, died early yesterday morning in Miami. He was 68 years old.
        Mr. Gerstein suffered a heart attack and was dead on arrival at 12:39 A.M. at the Miami Heart Institute, a nursing supervisor, Angela Adams, said.
        As the State Attorney of Dade County, Mr. Gerstein began his own investigation into the 1972 burglary and planting of electronic listening devices at the offices of the Democratic National Committee in Washington, suspecting that the conspiracy to break into the office had been organized in Key Biscayne, Fla.
        His investigation focused on a $25,000 cash contribution to President Nixon's re-election campaign that was converted into a cashier's check and later deposited into a Miami bank account controlled by Bernard L. Barker, the leader of five men who were arrested in the Watergate burglary on June 17, 1972.
        Mr. Barker, a Miami real-estate agent and former employee of the Central Intelligence Agency, was convicted in October 1972 of fraudulently notarizing the cashier's check, a misdemeanor. Mr. Gerstein's investigation also uncovered other secret campaign contributions that had been laundered in Mexico and deposited in Mr. Barker's account.
        At the time Mr. Gerstein's vigorous investigations were credited with increasing pressure on Congress for a full inquiry into Watergate.
        Mr. Gerstein, a Democrat, pursued several other investigations that swirled around the Watergate affair, including an inquiry in 1975 into accusations that the Internal Revenue Service had spied on people on the Nixon Administration's "enemies list," which included Mr. Gerstein.
        Mr. Gerstein, a native of Pittsburgh, was an imposing figure at 6 foot 5 inches tall. As an Air Force navigator in World War II, he lost his right eye in a bombing raid over Germany and won the Distinguished Flying Cross for navigating the crippled bomber back to England.
        In 1956 Mr. Gerstein was elected to the first of six terms as the State Attorney in Dade County, a position that was generally regarded as the second most powerful in the state, after that of the governor.
        In 1978, two years after winning a sixth term, he resigned to join the Miami law firm of a friend, Murrary Sams Jr.
        Last year he defended Paul Reubens, the comedian and actor who played Pee-wee Herman as the host of the television program "Pee-wee's Playhouse," when Mr. Reubens pleaded no contest to charges of indecent exposure in a Florida adult movie theater.
        Mr. Gerstein is survived by his wife, Carole.
      