
        Rear Adm. Armand Malcolm Morgan, retired, who supervised the design and construction of the nation's submarine fleet in World War II and later had charge of the design of Navy ships, died Saturday at the Falmouth-by-the-Sea convalescent home in Falmouth, Me. He was 90 years old and had lived in Portland, Me., since moving from Washington two years ago.
        He died of heart failure after a brief illness, his family said.
        Admiral Morgan, a native of Washington, graduated with honors from the United States Naval Academy in 1924. After sea duty, he earned a master's degree in naval construction at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        On subsequent assignments, over 10 years, he oversaw construction and design of ships being built at the Brooklyn Navy Yard and then at the Portsmouth (N.H.) Naval Shipyard. From 1938 to 1945, he headed the Navy Department's submarine section. Inquiry Prompted Design
        One of his first challenges there was the investigation into the sinking of the submarine Squalus during builder's trials in the Atlantic. His inquiry prompted the redesign of submarine control panels, and through the war years he supervised the design and construction of the submarines that were deployed against Japanese military and merchant targets in the western Pacific and German targets in the Atlantic. His part in the rapid launching of submarines won him the Legion of Merit and promotion to captain.
        His later technical missions overseas caused the Navy to update its submarine fleet, partly with German innovations like the U-boat snorkel, which allowed the boats to surface less frequently.
        From 1947 to 1952, Admiral Morgan served as director of ship design for the Navy's Bureau of Ships. When he retired from the service in 1959, he had been the bureau's assistant chief for design and research for four years. He stayed in Washington as a private consultant after that.
        Among Admiral Morgan's ancestors was George Eskridge, the legal guardian of George Washington's mother, Mary Ball.
        Admiral Morgan's first wife, the former Gwendolyn Rockafellow, to whom he was married for 54 years, died in 1984. He is survived by his second wife, the former Eleanor Kershaw Doane; two sons, Edward A. Morgan of Scarsdale and Philip H. Morgan of Auburn, Me., and three grandchildren.
      