
        Francis Bacon, the Irish-born painter whose abstract images of psychological and physical brutality made him one of the most exalted, and most disliked, artists of the postwar era, died yesterday at a hospital in Madrid. He was 82 years old and lived in London.
        He died of a heart attack while vacationing in Spain, according to a statement from his London dealer, Marlborough Fine Art.
        Mr. Bacon first gained acclaim in 1945, when he exhibited "Three Studies for Figures at the Base of the Crucifixion" at the Lefevre Gallery in London. His angrily drawn image of writhing half-human, half-animal forms, perched atop pedestals and set in claustrophobic spaces, seemed to epitomize the grim spirit of postwar England and established the painter immediately as a master of the macabre.
        That reputation was to be reinforced time and again by the screaming popes, butchered carcasses and distorted portraits that Mr. Bacon turned out over the next four and a half decades. Critics noted his links with, among other things, the Surrealist art of Picasso and with German Expressionism. Detractors -- and there were always many of them, especially in the United States, where he seemed so out of step with the Abstract Expressionists of his generation -- dismissed his art as sensationalistic and slick. Museums around the world bought his work, but private collectors were often loath to decorate their homes with it. The former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher once called him "that man who paints those dreadful pictures."
        But Mr. Bacon maintained that he was simply a realist and did not aim to shock. "You can't be more horrific than life itself," he was fond of saying.
        Until his death, he continued to work in his cramped, cluttered studio in a small ramshackle mews house in South Kensington, with its bare bulbs, tattered photographs taped to the wall, and bathtub in the kitchen. Although his paintings sold for millions of dollars, Mr. Bacon eschewed most of the trappings of success. He would reach into his pocket and pull out a wad of cash whenever he wanted to indulge in lunches in swank restaurants or Champagne for the crowd at the Colony Room, the run-down drinking club in the Soho district of London, where he was a regular for more than 40 years. A Raffish Youth
        A man of striking contradictions, he cultivated a bad-boy reputation, speaking freely about his fondness for alcohol, his homosexuality and his kinship with gangsters. Friends knew he could be ornery and unpredictable, especially after a few drinks. But they also admired him for his generosity, wit and kindness, qualities that clashed so dramatically with the paintings for which he was famous.
        The son of a hard-drinking racehorse trainer (and a collateral descendant of the great Elizabethan statesman and philosopher of the same name), Mr. Bacon spent his first years moving with his family between Dublin and London. Asthma made school a problem, so he was tutored by clergymen at home. He never got along with his mother and father. When, at the age of 16, he was discovered to have had sex with some of the grooms at the stables and was caught trying on his mother's underwear, his parents banished him.
        Mr. Bacon traveled to Berlin, where he spent long nights in transvestite bars and endless hours with the sorts of rough characters who would be no less a part of his social circle than intellectuals like the poets Michel Leiris and Stephen Spender. He stopped in Paris, where he saw an exhibition of Picasso's surreal paintings of the 20's, although he later said it had little impact on him.
        In 1929, he settled in London, working briefly as a designer of modernist furniture, for which he achieved a modest reputation. Almost casually, and without any formal training, he took up painting, but he came to consider these earliest canvases "so awful" that he subsequently painted over or destroyed almost all of them. In 1933, he participated in a group show and was mentioned in a book called "Art Now," by the critic and historian Herbert Read. Over the next few years he exhibited his work a little, but he treated art less as a career than as a distraction from the drinking, gambling and wandering around London that were his main preoccupations.
        When World War II started, Mr. Bacon tried to enlist but was rejected because of his asthma. He supported himself through a string of odd jobs. The restlessness he recounted feeling during these years, his sexual indiscretions, his mood of frustration and claustrophobia, and his casual disregard for social mores and the opinions of others, would become characteristics of his art. But only as the war was ending did he begin to take painting seriously as an occupation.
        The sources for his art were eclectic. He looked at the work of Old Masters like Velazquez, whose "Portrait of Pope Innocent X" he combined with a still photograph from Sergei Eisenstein's film "The Battleship Potemkin" to contrive his series of screaming popes. Mr. Bacon derived images from the newspaper and magazine photographs that he collected, and from the famous sequential photographs of moving figures and animals that Eadweard Muybridge made in the late 19th century. References to the latest designs in furniture and clothing regularly appeared in his art. He based one series of paintings on van Gogh; another series was inspired by the "Oresteia" of Aeschylus. "What is called Surrealism has gone through art at all times," he once said. "What is more surreal than Aeschylus?"
        And he was an extraordinary portraitist of his friends, somehow managing, despite the blurred and mangled features, to convey an unmistakable likeness and very often the attributes of beauty, wit and affection.
        Although Mr. Bacon made a handful of landscapes over the course of his career, he was first and last a painter of the human body. His images twisted it, X-rayed it, made it bleed, transmogrify and unravel. The body became an expression of longing, exhaustion, illness and also lust. Few artists could render flesh so palpably and voluptuously, or endow even so mundane a subject as a man turning a bathroom faucet with Michelangelesque aspirations.
        Often his figures were represented in what looked like cages or enclosures or in bleak rooms. In time, he came to favor gold frames and glass protection for his paintings, extravagant touches that intentionally contrasted with the shocking content of the pictures and underscored his desire to have his art considered in the company of museum masterpieces. An Evolving Style
        He consistently said his art was not about anything in particular, that his paintings conveyed no narrative. "I've no story to tell," he said. Over the years, he was criticized for recycling a small repertory of images and devices. But if his subjects did not change, his style did. Increasingly, his paintings were characterized by a refinement of touch that made his startling subject matter all the more unexpected. In 1988, he made a second version of "Three Studies for Figures at the Base of a Crucifixion," in which rawness has been replaced by an almost lyrical handling of paint and the figures seem less gruff, more incorporeal, as if they were memories of the earlier ones.
        Mr. Bacon's paintings have connections with the work of divergent postwar artists without belonging to any specific movement. He is part of the tradition of English figure painting to which Lucian Freud, Frank Auerbach, Leon Kosoff and others belong. At the same time, like Alberto Giacometti, he explored the spirit of Existential anguish that pervaded European postwar culture. (He admired the writings of Samuel Beckett and Harold Pinter). Although he denied any interest in the American Abstract Expressionists, and although his art was generally thought to be in opposition to theirs, Mr. Bacon's work invariably brings to mind the violent and distorted paintings of women by Willem de Kooning.
        Through Pop, Minimalism, Conceptual art and every other movement of the 1960's and early 70's, Mr. Bacon stuck to his path, shunning fashion. But in the late 70's and early 80's, he was taken up by the young Neo-Expressionists, who felt an affinity with his emphasis on the figure and the emotionalism of his imagery. In the last decades of his life, he was the subject of retrospectives at the Grand Palais in Paris, the Tate Gallery in London, the National Gallery of Modern Art in Tokyo and the Metropolitan Museum in New York. On the occasion of his 80th birthday, a traveling exhibition of his work was presented at the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
        Around the time of that exhibition, Mr. Bacon, who is survived only by a sister in South Africa, lamented that old age was "a desert because all of one's friends die." Yet he described himself as eternally "an optimist, but about nothing."
        "We live, we die and that's it," he said.
      