
        Gerard K. O'Neill, a professor emeritus of physics at Princeton University, died on Monday at the Sequoia Medical Center in Redwood, Calif. He was 69 years old.
        He died of complications from leukemia, said Betty Graeber, a spokeswoman for the Space Studies Institute that Dr. O'Neill co-founded in Princeton.
        Dr. O'Neill first drew wide notice with his invention in 1956 of the storage ring principle for colliding particle beams, now the basis for most high-energy physics research. But in later years his interests and ideas, while focused on using technology in more direct ways to advance humanity, grew broader.
        By the late 1960's he had become a leading advocate of space colonization, which he referred to as the "humanization" of space, and had begun to draft blueprints for self-supporting space habitats that could be powered by solar energy.  Writer and Entrepreneur
        He maintained that a "breakout" from Earth was "almost inevitable" and that it would ultimately be "the difference between success and failure for intelligent life," a view he expanded upon in one of his four books, "The High Frontier." The book, published by Simon & Schuster in 1977, was awarded the Phi Beta Kappa Science Book Award.
        Dr. O'Neill also wrote "2081: A Hopeful View of the Human Future," "The Technology Edge: Opportunities for America in World Competition," and was co-author of a graduate-level textbook on elementary particle physics.
        He was also an active entrepreneur, forming in the 1970's and 1980's a number of private nonprofit organizations and for-profit businesses. All were geared toward technology development. They included the Space Studies Institute, which he founded with his wife, Tasha Steffen, and which supports educational and research programs in space development, and the Geostar Corporation, which developed the first private satellite navigational system to guide travel on Earth. Honors for Work in Science
        At the time of his death, Dr. O'Neill was working on a form of high-speed ground-based transportation, called a magnetic flight system, in which a small-diameter car would "float" on a magnetic force in a vacuum tube on land or underground, and thus be able to reach incredible land speeds that would make it possible to travel from Boston to Los Angeles in an hour.
        Dr. O'Neill, a native of New York City who attended school in Newburgh, N.Y., joined the Navy on his 17th birthday. He received an honorable discharge in 1946 with the rank of radar technician II.
        He then entered Swarthmore College, graduating Phi Beta Kappa in physics and mathematics in 1950. He earned a doctorate in physics from Cornell University in 1954, and that year was offered a junior-faculty position at Princeton. He was named a full professor in 1959 and retired from Princeton in 1985.
        His many honors included an honorary degree from Swarthmore College in 1978, an appointment by President Reagan to the National Commission on Space in 1985, and being named the Hunsaker Professor of Aerospace Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1986.
        In addition to his wife, Dr. O'Neill is survived by two daughters, Janet, of Madison, Wis., and Eleanor, of Medford, Ore., and two sons, Edward, of Princeton, and Roger, of San Carlos, Calif.
      