
        Dr. Thomas Park, a zoologist who was instrumental in transforming the field of ecology into a science with quantification and controlled experiments, died Monday at his home in Chicago.
        He was 83 years old and died of cancer, his family said.
        Earlier, ecology, the study of the interaction of organisms and their environments, was a natural history based on field observations.
        "He addressed many of the central questions of ecology before others were thinking about them, and his work really introduced quantification and statistics," said Michael Wade, a professor of evolution and ecology at the University of Chicago. Linked Environment to Survival
        Dr. Park's specialty, which he called population ecology, focused on how conditions affect population size through crowding, competition and changes in birth and death rates.
        His early studies placed two similar species of flour beetles into competition in test tubes containing flour, yeast and water with different temperatures and humidity. Depending on the varied factors, one species or the other inevitably emerged dominant, and the runner-up became extinct.
        He wrote numerous articles for scientific journals and trained many researchers in ecology.
        Dr. Park served as president and chairman of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, president of the Ecological Society of America and chairman of the National Science Foundation's Environmental Biology Panel. He was also the editor of two journals, Ecology and Physiological Zoology, and the zoological consultant and an editorial board member at the Encyclopedia Britannica. Lifelong Ties to Illinois
        Born in Danville, Ill., he grew up there and in Ocean Springs, Miss., and Chicago. At the University of Chicago he earned a bachelor's degree in 1930 and a doctorate in zoology in 1932.
        From 1933 to 1937 he was a researcher and instructor in biology at Johns Hopkins University and taught briefly at Northwestern University. In 1937 he joined the faculty of the University of Chicago and served as associate dean of its Biological Sciences Division from 1943 to 1946.
        After studying at Oxford University on a Rockefeller fellowship in 1948, he served briefly as a scientific attache in the United States Embassy in London in 1949. He returned to the University of Chicago and remained there until his retirement in 1974, with two leaves as a visiting professor to teach mathematics at the University of California at Berkeley and biology at the University of Illinois.
        He was married for 35 years to the former Martha Alden Whitehead, who died in 1963. In 1969 he married Frances Lear.
        Besides his wife, he is is survived by two daughters, Sherley Hohmann of Fort Pierce, Fla., and Judith Barnett of Chicago; 6 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      