
        William Holland Drury, eminent ecologist and former research director of the Massachusetts Audubon Society, died on March 26 at his home in Bar Harbor, Me. He was 71 years old.
        He died of cancer, said Elena Tuhy, a spokeswoman for College of the Atlantic at Bar Harbor, where he taught and did research until his death.
        Dr. Drury is best known for his research on populations and the ecology of sea birds on the Eastern Seaboard. He contributed to the reintroduction of the peregrine falcon in the Northeast and the return of a variety of sea birds to the Gulf of Maine.
        Dr. Drury lectured on evolutionary biology and ecology at Harvard University from 1952 to 1976. As director of education and then research at the Massachusetts Audubon Society from 1956 to 1976, he played an active role in formulating public policy on environmental issues. Critic of Pesticides
        An early critic of the indiscriminate use of pesticides, he served on several environmental panels of the President's Science Advisory Committee during the Kennedy and Nixon Administrations. He was a member of the committee that in 1963 drafted a widely publicized report warning against health hazards from the widespread use of pesticides and demanding stiffer controls.
        After joining the faculty of the Bar Harbor college in 1976, he served as professor of ecology and natural history and director of advanced studies,
        Born in Newport, R.I., Dr. Drury graduated magna cum laude from Harvard College and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in 1942. After serving as a chief quartermaster in the Navy during World War II, he returned to Harvard in the Junior Fellows program, receiving his Ph.D in biology and geology in 1952.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Lyman Drury; four sons, William Holland Drury 3d and John Buchanan Drury of Green's Island, Vinalhaven, Me., Timothy Coit Drury of Portland, Me., and Peter Lyman Drury of Lincolnville, Me.; four sisters, Hope Goddard of Providence, R.I., Katherine Drury of London, and Sarah Drury and Margaret Lockwood, both of Newport, and four grandchildren.
      