
        Dr. Gerald L. Klerman, a psychiatrist and expert on depression who was a former chief of the Federal mental health agency, died on Friday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of kidney disease, his family said.
        Dr. Klerman was an educator, researcher, clinician, author and administrator. He specialized in depression, schizophrenia and panic and other anxiety disorders. He was appointed head of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration by President Jimmy Carter, holding the post from 1977 through 1980. Conducted Study on Depression
        In his work on depression, he studied the effectiveness of combining drug treatment and psychotherapy, developed interpersonal psychotherapy and conducted a study that found depression increasing among people born since 1935 and also occurring at earlier ages.
        He was the author of numerous articles and several books.
        Dr. Klerman was born in New York City and graduated from Cornell University and New York University's medical school. He did his residency at Harvard and worked two years as a researcher at the National Institute of Mental Health.
        From 1966 to 1970 he was a professor at Yale and also director of its mental health center. He moved to Harvard where he taught at the medical school and was the director of psychiatric research at Massachusetts General Hospital and director of the Eric Lindemann Mental Health Center.
        After his Federal service, he was a professor of psychiatry and vice chairman of research at Cornell Medical College and New York Hospital and a psychiatrist at the affiliated Payne Whitney Psychiatric Clinic.
        His marriage to Lorraine Vogel ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of seven years and research collaborator, Dr. Myrna Milgram Weissman; two sons, Jacob of Los Angeles and Daniel of Chicago; two daughters, Elizabeth of Boston and Karen of Philadelphia; a sister, Jean Klerman of Fairbanks, N.J.; three stepdaughters, Susan Weissman of Chicago, Judith Weissman of Manhattan and Sharon Weissman of Boston; a stepson, Jonathan Weissman of Boston; three grandchildren, and one stepgrandchild.
      