
        Milton R. Rackmil, a co-founder of Decca Records and head of Universal Pictures for two decades, died on Thursday at the DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 86 years old.
        He died of a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Rackmil was born on the Lower East Side and grew up in Brooklyn. He studied nights at New York University to become an accountant.
        In the 1920's he joined Brunswick Radio Corporation in Manhattan. He became chief comptroller and general manager of its plant in Scranton, Pa., and helped form the Brunswick Record Corporation in 1932.
        He and two others founded Decca in Manhattan in 1934. He began as treasurer, became vice president in 1945 and executive vice president in 1946 and president in 1949. Felt Radio Would Help Records
        Many people thought at the time that radio programs were making records at home obsolete, but Mr. Rackmil believed that radio would spur demand for records. And while some studios saved money by using little-known musicians, he preferred top names. The company adopted a policy of 35-cent records with a hit tune on each side.
        Decca flourished, becoming an industry leader in popular music and boasting a lineup of many swing era headliners. They included Bing Crosby, Ella Fitzgerald, Glenn Miller, Guy Lombardo, the Dorseys, Duke Ellington, Count Basie, the Mills Brothers, Al Jolson, the Andrews Sisters, Woody Herman, Lawrence Welk, the McGuire Sisters, Teresa Brewer, Ethel Waters and the Four Aces.
        In the midst of the company's success, the Federal Government filed an antitrust suit against Decca, its overseas sponsor, Decca Records Company of London, and a third company, charging that they had divided up international markets in a noncompetitive cartel. In a 1952 consent decree, they ended the practices.
        Applying his optimism to a new venture, Mr. Rackmil tackled the film industry, which some believed was destined for extinction because of the rise of television. Movies were entering a troubled period of expensive productions and the breakdown of the studio-contract star system. Cary Grant Replaces Mule
        Mr. Rackmil entered the fray in 1951 when Decca became the biggest owner of Universal Pictures Company. He took over as president in 1952.
        He shifted the studio from B-grade productions, with the likes of Ma and Pa Kettle and Francis the Talking Mule. Universal's bigger, slicker productions began starring actors like Cary Grant, James Stewart, Kirk Douglas, Doris Day and Rock Hudson. The films included "Spartacus," "The Glenn Miller Story," "That Touch of Mink" and "Pillow Talk."
        He also engineered the sale in which Screen Gems bought the television rights to Universal's 600 pre-1948 films.
        His difficult moments included a proxy fight at Decca in 1954 and the winter of 1957-58, when he shut down Universal's productions and fired hundreds of workers.
        Eventually MCA bought Decca and Universal in 1962. Mr. Rackmil became vice-chairman of MCA's board and remained the head of both the film and record companies until his retirement in 1972. He was active in the Friars Club and also served as president of the Record Industry Association.
        He was previously married and divorced. Surviving are his wife of 17 years, the former Joan Crane; a daughter, Marlene Salkin of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Bernard, of Palm Beach, Fla.; a stepson, David Crane of Los Angeles; three grandchdildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      