
        James C. Olson, an early leader in the field of management consulting, died last Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Olson joined Booz Allen & Hamilton, then a fledgling consulting firm based in Chicago, in 1936. He helped to make its Manhattan office the hub of its operations and to expand the firm into a worldwide company and a leader in its field.
        He devised efficiency and productivity techniques and developed an executive placement program. He retired in 1963 as a senior partner and vice chairman. Trustee of University
        He also ran his own manufacturing company, Bancroft Sportings Goods, a producer of tennis and squash rackets, in Pawtucket, R.I., and later in Woonsocket. Mr. Olson, an avid tennis player who helped work his way through college stringing rackets, bought control of Bancroft in 1945 and served as its chairman until he sold it to Colgate Palmolive in 1974.
        Born in Elkhart, Ind., he was the son of a carpenter and painter from Sweden. Mr. Olson graduated from Wittenberg University in Ohio in 1930 and earned a master's degree in business administration from Harvard in 1933. He returned to Wittenberg as a teacher and administrator for three years before joining Booz Allen. He later became a trustee of the university.
        During World War II, he helped manage a munitions plant in St. Louis. After the war he worked on the Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe and was part of a small group of business experts who advised government and business leaders in Greece on plans to revive the Greek economy.
        He served on the boards of the Colonial Trust Company and the Church & Dwight Company and was a past president of the Candlewood Lake Club in New Milford, Conn.
        Surviving are his wife of 46 years, the former Jean Stewart; two sons, James Stewart Olson of Manhattan and David Chalmers Olson of Rye, N.Y.; a daughter, Julia Luckenbill of Paoli, Pa.; a brother, Robert, of Portland, Ore.; a sister, Louise Quick of Lancaster, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      