
        Dr. Leland B. Jacobs, a professor of education emeritus at Teachers College, Columbia University, who was known nationally for his concepts of teaching literature to the very young, died on Saturday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Leonia, N.J.
        He died of congestive heart failure, the college said in a statement.
        In his 22 years on the faculty, Dr. Jacobs encouraged the development of literature as a major part of early education. He taught thousands of future teachers how to fashion literature -- prose and poetry -- into something that would lead children to like the printed word, in and out of the classroom.
        To help children develop a desire "to lose themselves in literature," he said in a 1984 interview, "read to them." His purpose was to get pupils to read literature for its own sake rather than have teachers use it as a helpful contrivance in reading class.
        For many years after retiring from Columbia in 1972, Dr. Jacobs remained a sought-after guest teacher at schools in New Jersey and around the country. Preaching his gospel, he continued to work as a consultant and lecturer.
        He wrote, co-wrote and edited many books and articles on language arts, reading and teaching pupils. His poetry for children has been published in books, reading series and professional magazines. A columnist for the magazine Teaching K-8, he sent a final column from his hospital bed a few days before his death.
        Born in Tawas City, Mich., Dr. Jacobs graduated from Michigan State Normal College, now Eastern Michigan University. He earned his master's at the University of Michigan and his Ph.D. at Ohio State University.
        He started his working life in a one-room schoolhouse in rural Michigan.  He was a teacher in elementary, junior high and high school. He was an elementary school principal, supervisor of student teachers and taught university courses on the undergraduate and finally on the graduate level. He taught at Ohio State before moving to Teachers College in 1952. While a professor there, he also advised state educational groups, national associations and school systems.
        Dr. Jacobs is survived by his wife, the former Beatrice Houghton; a son, Allan of Lemont Furnace, Pa.; and one grandson.
      