
        Sewell Sillman, a painter, art teacher and print publisher, died on Sunday at his home in Lyme, Conn. He was 67 years old.
        He died of cancer, said his companion, James McNair.
        In the art world, Mr. Sillman was acclaimed for the technically accomplished print editions of the work of such artists and photographers as Josef Albers, Walker Evans, Piet Mondrian, Ad Reinhardt, Jean Dubuffet, Jacob Lawrence and Romare Bearden, which he published with a partner, Norman Ives.
        To a generation of students, he was also known as an inspired teacher who set rigorous standards for concept and technical execution in his courses on color and drawing. He taught at Yale University and the Rhode Island School of Design before joining the University of Pennsylvania as a professor of art in 1985. He retired in 1990. Exploring Visual Possibilities
        As a painter, Mr. Sillman elaborated on the formal exercises that were the focus of his teaching, producing strict geometric forms that resulted from laying down self-imposed limitations and exploring their visual possibilities. His work was exhibited at the Sidney Janis and the Stable galleries in New York City, and in 1987 he had a one-man show at the Denise Rene gallery in Paris. His work is in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York, and the Phillips Collection in Washington.
        He was born on Oct. 24, 1924, in Savannah, Ga. Before entering college, he served with the United States infantry in Europe in World War II and was wounded in combat. Shortly after the war, he enrolled at the experimental Black Mountain College in North Carolina, where he studied with Albers, the abstract painter and theoretician. When Albers accepted a post at Yale, Mr. Sillman followed, receiving a B.F.A. degree in 1951 and an M.F.A. in 1953.
        After graduating, he joined the Yale faculty, remaining until 1966, when he left to teach at the Rhode Island School of Design and to lecture at the University of Michigan. In 1966, with Mr. Ives, a fellow artist at Yale, he formed Ives/ Sillman Publications. Their first effort was "Interaction of Color," a voluminous portfolio recording the writing and color studies of Albers's teachings. A second major Albers work, "Formulation and Articulation," was produced in 1972 in collaboration with Harry N. Abrams Inc.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      