
        Dr. Herman F. Mark, a chemist who was a leader in research on polymers, giant long-chain molecules used in plastics and other materials affecting nearly all facets of life, died Monday in Austin, Tex. He was 96 years old and moved to Texas two years ago from Brooklyn, where he was dean emeritus of Polytechnic University.
        Dr. Mark died after a brief illness at the home of his son, Dr. Hans M. Mark, chancellor of the University of Texas system, a statement from the university in Austin said.
        For more than 75 years, Herman Mark was in the forefront of polymer chemistry. Polymers, which can be both natural and man-made, are used in materials like plastics, fibers and films, as well as biological chemicals and materials. Papers, Books and Medals
        Professor Mark wrote more than 600 research papers and some 40 books on polymer chemistry. He was the recipient of scores of medals and honorary degrees. His many awards included the National Medal of Science of the United States, the Humboldt Medal of Germany, the Wolf Prize of Israel, the Legion of Honor of France and the Honor Cross for Arts and Sciences of his native Austria.
        Herman Francis Mark was born May 3, 1895, in Vienna, the son of a prominent physician. He served as a decorated combat infantry officer in the ski troops of the Austrian Army for four years in World War I.
        His career began in 1921 when he received a Ph.D. in organic chemistry at the University of Vienna. That year, he also married Maria Schramek and moved to Berlin to take a post at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Physical Chemistry. Albert Einstein was only one of the prominent scientists at the institute then.
        In Berlin, Professor Mark developed the basic research processes from which his reputation subsequently grew. He did so by applying the techniques of modern physics to the study of large molecules.
        In 1928, he became director of the research laboratory of I.G. Farbenindustrie, the chemical conglomerate, in Friedrichshafen. There, he and his associates worked out the structure of the natural polymer molecule, as in cellulose, silk, cotton, wool and protein. It was the first time that the structure of an organic polymer in living things had been accurately defined.
        While involved in this research he was also teaching at the Technical University in Karlsruhe, where his students included Edward Teller, Leo Szilard and Eugene P. Wigner.
        When the Nazis took over in Germany in 1933, Professor Mark accepted an offer to become professor of chemistry and director of the Chemical Institute of the University of Vienna. His major contribution there was to explain the behavior of a natural polymeric substance like rubber. He and his student Eugene Guth developed what today is known as the kinetic theory of rubber elasticity.
        Under his leadership, polystyrene, a tough, clear, colorless plastic, and the first two synthetic rubbers were advanced toward commercial production. Another accomplishment was the Mark-Houwink equation, which became the basis for the measurement of molecular weights of polymers.  Move to Brooklyn
        The annexation of Austria by Nazi Germany in 1938 prompted Professor Mark to start a journey that ended three years later in Brooklyn where he accepted a professorship at the Polytechnic Institute, now Polytechnic University. During World War II, he helped government agencies with projects involving synthetic rubbers, fibers and films.
        In 1944, the Polymer Institute was established at Polytechnic with him as its first director. It became a center for polymer research in the United States and achieved a systematic understanding of the mechanical properties of polymers.
        This enabled scientists to predict these properties and to tailor such substances to their intended use. That, in turn, made possible thousands of new plastics, fibers, paints and other materials produced by industry.
        Professor Mark left the directorship in 1961 to become dean of the faculty of Polytechnic. He became emeritus dean, professor and trustee in 1964.
        Professor Mark remained active in research and scholarly endeavors. In the 1980's, for instance, he led a study of fire- and temperature-resistant polymers used in aircraft, hotels and other public facilities. A member of the National Academy of Sciences, he also headed an academy panel in 1984 that reviewed the space program's use of high-temperature-resistant materials in rocket nozzles.
        Besides his son, Professor Mark is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Czitary of Vienna; three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. His wife died in 1970.
        A memorial symposium will be held on the Brooklyn campus of Polytechnic in the fall.
      