
        Dr. Samuel Mortimer Peck, a prominent New York dermatologist long associated with Mount Sinai Medical Center, died Monday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 91 years old and also had a residence, as well as his private practice, on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        He died after a brief illness, his family reported.
        Dr. Peck, a native of New York City, was graduated from Columbia College in 1922 and from the College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1924. He completed his training in Berlin at Friedrichshain Krankenhaus and, from 1927 to 1930, at the Dermatological Institute in Zurich under Prof. Bruno Bloch.
        During his long career, Dr. Peck was noted for his contributions in the fields of contact and industrial diseases, insect-bite reactions, mycology and melanin. He was the author of four textbooks and more than 130 scientific articles.
        His ties to Mount Sinai dated to 1931, when he joined the staff as a researcher. He soon established a reputation for his work using the venom of the deadly cottonmouth water moccasin both as a serum against most snake bites and, in minuscule doses under the skin, as a clotting agent to treat hemophilia. He became expert in the treatment of skin cancers and fungus disease and was the physician who first used vitamin A to treat skin disease.
        During World War II, Dr. Peck served the United States Public Health Service as a senior surgeon. Upon his return to Mount Sinai in 1945 he joined the faculty of the School of Medicine and the following year assumed the chairmanship of the hospital's department of dermatology.
        Dr. Peck was named professor of dermatology in 1966. When he stepped down as departmental chairman in 1971, he was elected professor emeritus at the School of Medicine. He also served as an associate clinical professor of dermatology at Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons from 1945 to 1968. After his official retirement from Mount Sinai three years later, he remained in private practice.
        Dr. Peck was a founding member of the Society of Investigative Dermatology in Philadelphia and a past president of the Manhattan and New York Dermatological Societies. He also advised various makers of skin creams and lotions, helping them develop medicated cosmetics, and counted many well-known figures among his private patients.
        Dr. Peck is survived by his wife, Florence; two sons, Stephen B. of McLean, Va., and James M. of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Audrey Hillard of Los Angeles and Margot Serden of Beverly Hills, Calif.; a granddaughter and two grandsons.
      