
        Daniele Bovet, the Swiss-born Nobel Prize-winning pharmacologist who discovered the first antihistamine and created important muscle-relaxing drugs from curare, died Wednesday in Rome. He was 85 years old.
        Dr. Bovet died of cancer, the Associated Press quoted officials of the Lincei Scientific Academy as saying.
        Although he was a biochemist, Dr. Bovet won the Nobel Prize for Physiology and Medicine in 1957. The Nobel citation said he had received the prize "for his discoveries relating to synthetic compounds that inhibit the action of certain body substances, and especially their action on the vascular system and the skeletal muscles." But that terse description did not convey the broad impact of Dr. Bovet's work.  Never Took Out Patent
        While he was essentially a theoretician, Dr. Bovet made significant contributions to practical medicine, including the discovery of sulfa drugs, antihistamines and muscle relaxants that are vital to surgery and have saved thousands of lives. Yet he never took out a patent in his own name and never earned any money from the commercial use of his discoveries.
        Dr. Bovet was born in Neuchatel, Switzerland, on March 23, 1907. His father, Pierre Bovet, was a professor of experimental education and founder of the Institute Rousseau in Switzerland. "We children were guinea pigs for testing father's educational theories," Dr. Bovet once said. "It was wonderful."
        Dr. Bovet earned his doctorate in the natural sciences at the University of Geneva. Between 1929 and 1935, he was an assistant in the laboratory of therapeutic chemistry at the Institut Pasteur in Paris, working under Prof. Ernest Fourneau. Together they discovered sulfanilamide, the first of the so-called modern "wonder drugs" that work directly to kill infection. Dr. Bovet continued to synthesize hundreds of related compounds, helping to create the succession of sulfa drugs that have saved millions of people. Discovered Antihistamines
        In 1936, Dr. Bovet became head of the laboratory. By then, he had begun his search for compounds that would relieve the sometimes fatal effects of asthma.
        "I was fascinated by the fact that in nature, in the human body, no product existed to counteract the excessive effects of histamine," he said. Besides asthma, those effects include hay fever and hives. Between 1937 and 1941, Dr. Bovet conducted more than 3,000 experiments to find the chemical formulas upon which most of the antihistamines now prescribed are based.
        Dr. Bovet was married in 1938 to Philomena Nitti, daughter of Francesco Saverio Nitti, the Prime Minister of Italy in 1919 and 1920, who was exiled during the Fascist era. Dr. Bovet became an Italian citizen in 1947 after moving from the Institut Pasteur to the Instituto Superiore de Sanita in Rome.
        Shifting to a new medical problem, Dr. Bovet experimented for eight years to find the chemical mechanism by which curare, a poison used on the tips of arrows by some South American Indians, paralyzed the muscles of animals. Later, after winning the Nobel Prize, he would wryly assert that he had gone to the jungles of Brazil and lived with the Indians to satisfy his spirit of adventure. "Curare was only a pretext," he said.
        But his experiments synthesized 400 compounds that produced different degrees of curare's effect, leading to drugs that are vital in deadening pain and relaxing muscles for major surgery on the chest and abdomen.
        Dr. Bovet presented a proposal to the World Food Congress of the United Nations that synthetic foods could be inexpensively manufactured on a large scale to help alleviate world hunger and malnutrition. In later years, he focused his studies on the effects mental illness had on the chemistry of the brain.
        Dr. Bovet is survived by his wife and one son.
      