
        Konstantin Sergeyev, a former director of the Kirov Ballet who was also one of Soviet ballet's leading male stars through the 1950's, died on April 1 in St. Petersburg, Russia. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Sergeyev had complained of fatigue and entered a hospital, said Anna-Marie Holmes, assistant to the director of the Boston Ballet. Mr. Sergeyev, artistic director of the Kirov Ballet School since 1972, had staged the Boston Ballet's highly acclaimed version of "Swan Lake" in 1990 with the aid of his wife, the former Kirov ballerina Natalya Dudinskaya. She informed Miss Holmes of his death by telephone from St. Petersburg and said her husband felt tired after staging "Le Corsaire" at the Bolshoi Ballet and "Giselle" in Tokyo this winter.
        Mr. Sergeyev's 60-year tenure as a classical dancer, choreographer and company and school director was frequently accompanied by turmoil. He was removed as the Kirov Ballet's artistic director after Natalya Makarova defected to the West in 1970. Although his dismissal was widely interpreted as punishment from Communist Party authorities, it was also construed as an attempt to prevent further departures from a company demoralized by Mr. Sergeyev's conservative policies. He was the Kirov's artistic director from 1951 to 1955 and from 1960 to 1970. The Danseur Noble
        As a dancer, Mr. Sergeyev represented the epitome of the danseur noble in the new Soviet esthetic that developed during the 1930's. He was identified with princely and Romantic roles. As Galina Ulanova's partner he also became celebrated for his dramatic characterizations after he and Miss Ulanova created the title roles in Leonid Lavrovsky's "Romeo and Juliet" at the Kirov in 1940. He retired from the stage in 1961.
        Mr. Sergeyev was apt, surprisingly, to tend toward abstraction in his re-staging of the classics. "Swan Lake," based on his 1950 production, virtually eliminated mime and stressed the choreography's pure-dance aspects. Senior members of the Russian ballet world like Fyodor Lopukhov criticized Mr. Sergeyev's stylistic changes in his 1952 production of "The Sleeping Beauty."
        Nonetheless, Mr. Sergeyev was a driving force in Soviet ballet. He was born on March 3, 1910 in St. Petersburg and in 1930 joined the Kirov, then known as the Leningrad Ballet, after attending night ballet classes and its regular school. As a choreographer, he created such ballets as "Path of Thunder" (1957), based on a South African story; "Cinderella" (1946), and "Hamlet" (1970), with Mikhail Baryshnikov.
        He is survived by his wife.
      