
        Richard Pommer, an architectural historian whose writings linked modernist design to its social and political context, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of brain cancer, said his wife, the art historian Linda Nochlin.
        Mr. Pommer, who was on the faculty of the New York University Institute of Fine Arts for the last four years, initially concentrated on the Renaissance and Baroque periods, publishing an award-winning book, "18th-Century Architecture in Piedmont," in 1967. But in the late 1960's, he shifted his attention to modern architecture, concentrating on its development in Germany in the 1920's and 30's.
        This turbulent era -- bracketed on the one side by the liberal Weimar Republic, which sponsored the Bauhaus, a cradle of modern design, and on the other by rise of the Nazi regime, which shut down the Bauhaus -- was especially rich in the tangle of ethical and esthetic issues that became Mr. Pommer's specialty. He became an expert on the architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, illuminating such issues as the complex relationship between Mies's radical designs and his willingness at least at one point to work for the Nazis. Analyzing the Flat Roof
        In one of his best-known essays, Mr. Pommer examined the symbolism of the flat roof, a modernist convention that the Nazis denounced as "degenerate" along with Cubism, Expressionism and other new art forms.
        His most recent book, "Weissenhof 1927 and the Modern Movement in Architecture," written with Christian F. Otto and published last year by the University of Chicago Press, focused on the housing project in Weissenhof, near Stuttgart, designed by 16 architects and overseen by Mies.
        Mr. Pommer, who was born in New York City on Nov. 4, 1930, earned his B.S. from Columbia University in 1953 and his Ph.D. from New York University in 1961. From 1966 to 1987, he taught at Vassar College, returning to the Institute of Fine Arts in 1988 as Sheldon H. Solow Professor in the History of Architecture.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Daisy Pommer of New York City and Chiara Petro of Knoxville, Tenn.; a stepdaughter, Jessica Trotta of Pound Ridge, N.Y., and a brother, Geoffrey, of New York City.
      