
        Dr. A. Gregory Jameson, emeritus professor of clinical medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University, and former director of cardiology at Roosevelt Hospital, died on March 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 77 years old.
        He died after a long illness related to asbestosis, his family said.
        Dr. Jameson was known for his work on cardiac catheterization, the insertion of a fine tube into the heart via a blood vessel to investigate its condition. In the course of his career, he wrote extensively on cardiovascular disease.
        A native of Branford, Conn., Dr. Jameson was a 1937 graduate of Harvard College and received a master's degree in civil engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology three years later. During World War II, in his work for the Government on various military projects, he contracted asbestosis, a lung condition that results from inhaling asbestos fibers, that led to his death, his family said.
        Dr. Jameson turned to medicine after the war and earned his M.D. at Columbia in 1950. He was the director of the Cardiovascular Laboratory of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center from 1959 to 1966, when he became director of cardiology at Roosevelt Hospital. He left that position in 1978 and served as acting director of Roosevelt's Department of Medicine until he retired in 1981.
        At the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Dr. Jameson started teaching in 1959 as an assistant professor in pediatrics. He became an associate professor of clinical medicine in 1966, a professor in 1972 and reached emeritus status in 1980. The next year he also retired from private practice.
        He was a past member of the Director's Council of the New York Heart Association and a trustee of the New York Academy of Medicine.
        His companion was Patricia Schulte.
        Dr. Jameson is survived by his daughter, Susan Jameson of Honolulu; a son, Robert, of Manhattan; a brother, James, of Tucson, and a sister, Lois Winter of San Francisco.
      