
        The Rev. James R. Harvey, who founded a program that has given thousands of ex-convicts training and jobs in florist shops and other businesses, died on Monday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 47 years old and lived in Queens.
        He died of natural causes after a long illness, his family said.
        Father Harvey was the president of Flowers with Care, which he founded 17 years ago to provide first-time offenders with work. The program started with florist shops, then included other businesses and longer-term training.
        About 1,000 former inmates a year enroll in the program. Most become gainfully employed, and relatively few relapse into crime, officials of the program say. Depending on individual need, the assistance includes food, clothing, counseling, drug addiction therapy, on-the-job training, placement, remedial high school and even college preparation. Program Is Based in Queens
        A favorite among Father Harvey's success stories involved a convicted bank embezzler who went on a florist-sales call, to a bank. Father Harvey got a bit edgy as the day wore on without any word from the apprentice salesman. But at the end of the afternoon, the bank president called in an order for 30,000 cactus plants to use as premiums.
        The program, which includes more than 120 small businesses, is based in Astoria, Queens, and the program is affiliated with Catholic Charities of Brooklyn.
        Father Harvey was born in Brooklyn. After graduating from St. Francis College and Immaculate Conception Seminary, he was ordained a Roman Catholic priest in 1971 and became a parish priest at St. Margaret's Church in Middle Village, Queens.
        When he was assigned to be a chaplain at the city Corrections Department's Queens House of Detention in 1973 and later at Rikers Island, he saw the need for training and jobs to help turn unemployed young people away from crime. He started the program with a friend who was a florist.
        For several years Father Harvey also taught criminal justice at St. John's University.
        He is survived by his mother, Catherine Harvey of Brooklyn, and two sisters, Kathleen Scott of Brooklyn and Patricia Costello of Crofton, Md.
      