
        Charles P. Ginsburg, an electrical and radio engineer who played a pivotal role in the development of videotape recording, died on April 9 at Sacred Heart Hospital in Eugene, Ore. He was 71 years old and moved to Eugene from the San Francisco area, his longtime home, two years ago.
        The cause of death was pneumonia, his family said.
        Electronics was not Mr. Ginsburg's first career choice. He entered the University of California at Berkeley as a pre-medical student but transferred to the Davis campus two years later to study animal husbandry. Out of money, he dropped out in 1940 and had a number of jobs that steered him into the field where he made his mark 16 years later.
        He went back to college, working his way through, and received a bachelor's degree in engineering and mathematics from San Jose State College in 1948. The year before, he had started working full time as an engineer for radio station KQW in San Jose, now KCBS in San Francisco. He remained there until 1951, when he received a call from Alexander M. Poniatoff, founder and president of Ampex, a modest-sized company in Redwood City, Calif., who thought Mr. Ginsburg might help him with a project.
        The idea was to create a magnetic tape and a recorder to produce television images. Mr. Ginsburg was put in charge of a six-member research team that went head to head against much larger electronics companies pursuing the same objective.
        One member of Mr. Ginsburg's team was Milton M. Dolby, whose own breakthroughs in sound technology have since made his name a household word.  Working by trial and error, the team cleared the technical hurdles, won the race and in 1956 introduced the world's first practical video recorder and the tape to go with it. The achievement earned Ampex its first Emmy Award.
        In 1990 Mr. Ginsburg was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame, where he was credited with "one of the most significant technological advances to affect broadcasting and program production since the beginning of television itself."
        He is survived by his wife, the former Edna Perkins; five daughters, Jane Ginsburg of San Francisco, Marge Slyter of Sacramento, Calif., Nancy Gill of Los Altos, Calif., Peggy Ginsburg of San Jose, Calif., and Patty Ginsburg of Anchorage; a sister, Marjorie Morris of Burlingame, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      