
        Joseph B. Williams, a retired judge, former head of New York City's Family and Criminal Courts and a top official in the Lindsay administration, died on Wednesday at Sentara Hampton General Hospital in Hampton, Va. He was 70 years old and had moved to Hampton this year from Brooklyn.
        He died of a heart attack after suffering a lung illness, his family said.
        Justice Williams served on the State Supreme Court from 1977 until his retirement at the end of last year. For the last five years he had been assigned to the Appellate Term.
        Earlier in his career, he won praise as a manager who improved the city's courts, and he tackled politically and socially charged issues as the administrator of the Model Cities program.
        A Republican who was prominent in black organizations, he was a Brooklyn-Queens campaign coordinator in John V. Lindsay's successful 1965 bid for Mayor. The next year he was appointed to Family Court. Ran Model Cities Program
        Mayor Lindsay named him in 1970 to head the federally financed Model Cities program to improve life in the inner city, calling the task "the hardest job in the city today, next to mine." The programs ranged widely, from renovating city housing to cleaning up abandoned lots to increasing minority hiring in the police, fire and sanitation agencies.
        The judge returned to Family Court, becoming its administrative judge in 1974. To keep attuned, he presided in courts in each borough every month. He also took judges on weekend "consciousness-raising" tours to rubble-strewn slums and beleaguered service agencies. He spoke up about crime among blacks, saying, "The problem is ours, and the solution needs to be ours."
        Gov. Hugh L. Carey, a Democrat, appointed him to the State Supreme Court in 1977, and later that year he won election to a 14-year term. When the State Commission on Judicial Conduct investigated charges that his aides solicited other court workers for campaign donations, two aides resigned and he was reprimanded. Led Brooklyn Group
        He became administrative judge of the criminal courts in 1982, and left that post in 1986 to join the State Supreme Court's Appellate Term.
        He had served as chairman of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation and chairman of the Cornerstone Baptist Church, and he was active in civil rights groups.
        He was born in Annapolis, Md., and graduated from Hampton Institute in 1942 and the Merchant Marine Academy in 1944. He served in the Navy during World War II and again during the Korean War.
        He earned a bachelor of law degree from New York University in 1949 and a master's in 1954.
        His first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 17 years, the former Eva Coleman Holmes; two sons, Joseph Jr. of Brooklyn and John of Annapolis; a stepdaughter, Maria Holmes Simms of Brooklyn; two sisters, Hazel Miles of Annapolis and Goldie Coles of Long Beach, L.I., and four grandchildren.
      