
        Prince Teymuraz Bagration, who escaped the Russian Revolution, became a Yugoslav official in World War II, then headed international relief efforts for political refugees for 43 years, died on April 10 at his home in Manhattan.  He was 79 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, his wife said.
        Mr. Bagration was the president of the Tolstoy Foundation, a Manhattan-based agency he had worked for since 1949.
        He was born in Pavlovsk, near St. Petersburg, with the full name of Prince Teymuraz Konstantinovich Bagration-Moukhransky.
        Mr. Bagration (pronounced bahg-rah-tzee-OWN) descended from two houses of royalty. His father was in the Georgian dynasty, and his mother was from the Romanovs of Russia. He was a great-great-grandson of Czar Nicholas I.
        Many of Mr. Bagration's relatives were killed in the Russian Revolution. After he was taken to safety in Switzerland in 1919, his family settled in Yugoslavia. There he married Catherine Ratchich, a granddaughter of the prime minister. Served on Many Boards
        Upon graduating from the Royal Yugoslav Military Academy in 1935, he served for 10 years in the Light Royal Grand Artillery of the Yugoslav Army, including some combat in World War II. In the war and its aftermath, he worked for Yugoslavia with the Allies, the Hungarians, the French underground and in a legation in Switzerland and royal chancelleries in Paris and London.
        Countess Alexandra Tolstoy, daughter of the novelist Leo Tolstoy, recruited Mr. Bagration to the foundation, which she had created. After serving briefly as a field director and senior representative in Beirut, he moved to New York in 1949 as a liaison. He became executive secretary, executive director and chief executive.
        The foundation, which initially helped refugees of many ethnic and national groups from the Soviet Union, later expanded to serve refugees from other countries, including Tibet, Chile, Uganda and Cuba. Its offices expanded to 18 other locations across the United States and in Europe, the Middle East and South America.
        Mr. Bagration was a longtime board member of CARE and the American Council of Voluntary Agencies for Foreign Service. He was also a founding member of Interaction, a coalition of 100 charitable organizations working abroad, and of the council of relief agencies that shipped food to Germany after the war.
        He was an active supporter of the Synod of Bishops of the Russian Orthodox Church Outside of Russia, as the president of the American branch of the Orthodox Palestine Society and as a member of the Georgian Eastern Orthodox Church.
        His first wife died in 1946. He is survived by his wife of 43 years, the former Princess Irina Czernichew-Besobrasow.
      