
        Benny Hill, the English television comedian whose mischievous grin and cherubic looks somehow made him a master of double-entendre, British bawdy style, and ultimately gained him a kind of international cult status, was found dead last night at his home in southwest London. He was 67 years old.
        While the cause of death was not determined, Mr. Hill's chronic heart condition had been well publicized in the London newspapers. The police in Teddington, his hometown, discovered the body after neighbors grew concerned after not seeing Mr. Hill for two days, a spokeswoman for Scotland Yard said last night.
        Mr. Hill's humor, a cross between a leer from W. C. Fields and the naivete of Charlie Chaplin, with a large dose of the Keystone Kops thrown in, found a devoted audience in England, at least among those who confessed to having an appetite for his madcap sight gags and for the young women in skimpy outfits in most of his routines. Transforming a Genre
        Though he became a television star in England in the 1950's, it was not until 1979, when a series of variety specials appeared as a half-hour series in the United States, that Mr. Hill gained worldwide acclaim. His stamp -- an impish choirboy's grin -- turned ordinary slapstick into something else entirely.
        In costume, either as a matronly teacher, a country hayseed or a storm trooper, he always seemed to create the suggestion on the screen that anything could and would happen. Typical was this: An old man is digging a tunnel from England to the Continent, when he accidentally digs his way right into a beach cabana where, of course, there is a young woman wearing only a bikini and clutching a towel. The man offers the girl his apologies and asks, "May I shake you by the hand?" Of course she accepts, and the towel falls away.
        It seemed that the more popular Mr. Hill became with audiences in the United States and from China to the Soviet Union, the more he encountered controversy at home. Critics said his humor too often crossed the line from good fun into sexism.
        A private man who wrote nearly all of his material, Mr. Hill never seemed bothered by the complaints, although they partly caused the cancellation of his show in England in 1989. In 1979, he said in an interview in The New York Times: "My ideal form of entertainment is to have it all going on at once: good music, pretty girls, lots of laughs. I sometimes use a girl singer the way Henny Youngman uses his violin as a bridge between one laugh and the next."
        Benny Hill, who originally was named Alfred Hawthorn Hill, was born on Jan. 21, 1925, in Southampton, the English seaport and beach resort. His father, who had run away from home as a boy to become a circus performer, ran a pharmacy and surgical appliance store there and apparently passed on a clown's instincts to his son. Mr. Hill often reminisced about his first spanking at 6 years old, when his mother caught him accepting pennies after singing for bathers on the beach.
        His big break came in 1952 when he brought a pile of scripts to BBC Television, then in its infancy. He was asked if he would be busy in the next two weeks; he said he would not and was promptly given his own show, for which he mixed cornball humor with a bit of what he called "gentle burlesque" and some mainstream music.
        He always seemed to be creating, either by thinking up routines at restaurants, jotting down ideas on hotel stationery or by using props that he kept in his apartment. He never married and was intensely private. A biography, "Saucy Boy," written by a brother, Leonard, who has since died, said Mr. Hill's marriage proposals to two women had been rejected.
        Continuing attempts by the British tabloids to find out information about Mr. Hill uncovered nothing sensational, only that he occasionally rode buses and often entertained disabled people.
        He left no survivors.
      