
        Edward F. Fry, an art historian, a curator and a critic who specialized in 20th-century art, died on Friday at his home in Gladwyne, Pa. He was 56 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, said his wife, Sandra Ericson Fry.
        Mr. Fry, who was born on May 6, 1935, in Philadelphia, earned his bachelor's degree from Princeton University in 1953 and his master's from Harvard in 1961. He was best known as an expert on Cubism, publishing a book on that art movement in 1966 that was admired by scholars for its meticulous research and often fresh material. He wrote and lectured on the subject throughout his career.
        But he was also involved with other phases of the art of this century. As an associate curator at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in Manhattan from 1967 to 1971, he organized two surveys of international contemporary art as well as retrospectives of David Smith and Jean Arp.
        While at the Guggenheim, he also worked on an exhibition of the German-born Conceptualist Hans Haacke, which became the center of an art-world controversy. It was canceled in April 1971, a month before it was to open, because the museum's director and trustees objected to the political content of the art. After Mr. Fry publicly expressed his anger at the cancellation, he was dismissed.
        In the years that followed, Mr. Fry taught at Harvard, Yale, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Pittsburgh and the University of South Florida. He also wrote widely and worked as an independent curator. In 1987, he was co-director of the eighth "Documenta," a sprawling survey of international art that is held roughly every five years in Kassel, Germany.
        He also worked with William S. Rubin and Pierre Daix on the organization of "Picasso and Braque: Pioneering Cubism," which was held at the Museum of Modern Art in 1989.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Fry is survived by a stepdaughter, Magdalena Bergmann of Philadelphia, and a sister, Margaret Fry Saxton of Alexandria, Va.
      