
        Gaylord Donnelley, patriarch of the Chicago printing family and a well-known conservationist, died in his sleep on Sunday at his Ashepoo Plantation in eastern South Carolina. He was 81 years old, and his principal residence was in Libertyville, Ill., a suburb of Chicago.
        He died of heart failure, a family member said.
        Mr. Donnelley was formerly president and chairman of R. R. Donnelley & Sons Company, a Chicago-based concern established by his grandfather in 1864, which grew to become the world's largest commercial printer.
        Upon retiring from the company in 1975, he was named chairman of the executive committee; in 1983 he was elected honorary director and honorary chairman. Over 20 years with the company, he held various manufacturing and managerial positions.
        He actively pursued his lifelong interest in conservation, as a trustee of the Conservation Foundation/World Wildlife U.S., national president of Ducks Unlimited, a member of the Illinois Nature Preserve Commission, trustee of the North American Wildlife Foundation and adviser to the Illinois Department of Conservation.
        In association with the Open Lands Project in Chicago and the Upper Illinois Valley Association, he gave the state 800 acres for the Donnelley-Depue Wildlife Area on the Illinois River and was instrumental in creating the Oak Prairie Open Space Preserve near Libertyville. Conservation and Education
        He had recently been working to preserve the basin at the confluence of the Ashepoo, Combahee and South Edisto rivers along the South Carolina coast. He donated 6,000 acres of land along the Ashepoo River to the Nature Conservancy and Ducks Unlimited and had an additional 10,000 acres protected by conservation easements banning development.
        He was a member of the University of Chicago board from 1947 until his death, serving as chairman from 1970 to 1976. The Gaylord Donnelley Trust and the Gaylord and Dorothy Donnelley Foundation benefit a variety of charitable, cultural and educational institutions.
        His many honors and awards include the President's Historic Preservation Award, the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Illinois Nature Preserves Commission, the Yale Medal and the Lewis Memorial Award as 1976 Graphic Arts Man of the Year.
        Mr. Donnelley is survived by his wife, Dorothy; two sons, Elliot, of Palm Beach, Fla., and Strachan, of New York City; a daughter, Laura Donnelley-Morton of Los Angeles, and 10 grandchildren.
      