
        Grand Duke Vladimir Kirillovich Romanov, who would have been heir to the throne of the czars if imperial Russia still existed, died suddenly during a news conference in Miami yesterday. He was 74 years old.
        The Grand Duke, a direct descendant of Czar Alexander II, who ruled from 1855 to 1881, was in Miami for a speech he was to give today before a forum of civic and business leaders. He was at a bank, being interviewed by Spanish-language reporters, when he fell unconscious.
        Duke Vladimir, a resident of Paris and Brittany, France, was pronounced dead at Mercy Hospital. A hospital spokeswoman, Odalys Lloret, could not provide a cause of death. Related to Queen Victoria
        The Grand Duke's father was Kirill Vladimirovich Romanov, cousin of the last Czar, Nicholas II. The Duke succeeded as head of the Romanov dynasty in 1938 when his father died. With the intermingling of blood lines among royal families in Europe in the 19th century, Duke Vladimir was also a descendant of Britain's Queen Victoria.
        "I in no way wish to impose myself, but if I were asked to help I would definitely do so," the blue-eyed, craggy-browed duke told a New York Times reporter several months ago, when asked if he wanted to sit on the throne of the Czars. The Duke made the comment after visiting St. Petersburg in November, his first time ever on Russian soil. The Mayor of St. Petersburg, Anatoly A. Sobchak, had invited the closest relative of Czar Nicholas to come, as a way of expressing derision of the Bolshevik Revolution on its most recent anniversary.  Adulation From Crowds
        For several days, the Duke basked in the publicity, sometimes standing on a balcony of the Winter Palace and waving to the crowds gathered below, much as his forebears had done. Saying it seemed like a state of grace, the Duke said "the possibility of seeing my own country before the next world" had deeply moved him.
        "I could be the leader of the whole of the former empire, but it would depend on whether the people would take me as an all-Russian czar," he told reporters during the trip.
        Duke Vladimir was born in exile in Finland in 1917, after Nicholas II was forced to abdicate during the revolution. "Life was not easy for my parents," the Duke said of the period after his family was forced into exile. "The valuables they brought out of Russia couldn't last forever."
        For a brief time before World War II, Duke Vladimir worked at the Blackstone agricultural equipment factory in Lincolnshire, England, "to see what the life of an ordinary workman was like." Since then, as a landowner in Brittany, he had no profession, he said, other than "keeping in touch with Russian emigres." Ukraine Trial Balloon
        In 1938, the Grand Duke rebuffed suggestions that he be proclaimed the regent of Ukraine, saying he would not help dissolve what he still considered the Russian empire. Russian monarchist emigres in Paris had hoped that the Nazis might back Duke Vladimir as Ukraine's ruler in exile, helping to weaken the Soviet Union, of which the region was then part.
        Four years later, the Grand Duke's entire entourage was placed in a French concentration camp at Compiegne after he refused to issue a manifesto calling on Russian emigres to support Germany's war against the Soviet Union. Then, in 1952, he appealed to the Western powers to wage war against the Soviet Union.
        "If the Western powers had smashed Communism in time, the present plans for a Third World War would have been unnecessary," he said.
        Grand Duke Vladimir is survived by his wife of 44 years, Princess Leonida Bagration of the royal family of Georgia; his daughter and next in line as head of the Russian imperial family, Grand Duchess Maria, a 38-year-old Oxford graduate who lives in Madrid; and his 11-year-old grandson, Grand Duke George, of Madrid.
      