
        Dr. Howard Sylvester Ellis, an economist of the post-World War II era and professor emeritus of economics at the University of California at Berkeley, died Wednesday at the Rosscare Convalescent Center in Capitola, Calif., near San Jose. He was 93 years old.
        His family said he died after a long illness.
        Dr. Ellis, a tenured professor at Berkeley for 30 years, was one of the nation's leading experts of his time on monetary theory, exchange controls and international economics. He was an authority on the Marshall Plan, the program to aid European recovery after World War II, and on the economic development of Latin America.
        Dr. Ellis was a prolific writer with more than 20 books to his credit, including "Economics of Freedom" (Harper & Brothers, 1950), which had an introduction by Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower. The book was an appraisal of the first years of the Marshall Plan; one of its main conclusions was that the program was highly successful and well worth the effort and expense.
        He also edited "Survey of Contemporary Economics," a project that updated the field of economics after the war.
        Dr. Ellis was born in Denver and was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of Iowa. He received master's degrees from the University of Michigan and Harvard University. After studying for a year at the University of Heidelberg he received his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1929 and returned to Europe for two years of post-doctoral work at the University of Vienna.
        From 1924 to 1938 Dr. Ellis was associated with the University of Michigan, where he became a professor.
        He joined the Berkeley faculty in 1938 as Flood Professor of Economics. He retired in 1965 but then spent two more years in charge of a joint project the university was conducting with the Agency for International Development to foster economic growth in Brazil.
        In World War II Dr. Ellis was on leave from Berkeley to work in Washington as the assistant director of the Federal Reserve Board's division of research and statistics. In the 1940's he also served two stints as a visiting professor of economics at Columbia University.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Hermine Johanna Hoerlesberger; three daughters, Audrey Ellis of Southern California, Dorothy Hammer of Cannon Falls, Minn., and Martha Johnson of Santa Cruz, Calif.; two sisters, Dorothy Johnson of Bridgeport, Conn., and Nell Theil of Evansville, Ind., and six grandchildren.
      