
        Joachim Jean Aberbach, a music publisher and art dealer, died on Sunday at Columbia resbysterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Old Westbury, N.Y.
        He died of a stroke, said his wife, Susan.
        Mr. Aberbach was born in Vienna and worked for music publishing companies in Berlin and Paris before immigrating to the United States in 1940. During the 40's he worked for Chappel & Company, a prominent music publisher.
        In 1945, Mr. Aberbach and his brother, Julian, founded Hill and Range Songs, which became a major independent music publisher, with branches in 16 countries. The company published music in a wide variety of styles, and in the 1940's and 50's, when New York publishers were uninterested in country and western music, it handled the work of Hank Snow and Ernest Tubb. From Presley to Hal David
        Among the songs published by Hill and Range were "Frosty the Snowman," "I Walk the Line," "Save the Last Dance for Me," "Spanish Harlem" and "Arrivederci, Roma."
        Through a joint publishing venture with Elvis Presley, the company published "Love Me Tender," "All Shook Up," "Don't Be Cruel," "Teddy Bear" and "Can't Help Falling in Love With You."
        Hill and Range was associated with the songwriters Doc Pomus, Mort Shuman, Burt Bacharach, Hal David, Phil Spector and the songwriting team of Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller.
        Mr. Aberbach collected modern art for many years and in 1973 opened a gallery in Manhattan, Aberbach Fine Art, which specialized in 20th-century European paintings.
        He served as a director of the National Music Publishers Association from 1966 to 1974 He was the president of the Solomon Schechter Day School in Jericho, N.Y., from 1974 until 1981 and chairman from 1981 until his death.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his brother, Julian, of Manhattan; a daughter, Anne-Rachel, of Scottsdale, Ariz., and two sons, David, of Santa Fe, N.M., and Jason, of Tucson, Ariz.
      