
        Alfred Gross, a builder of more than 25,000 housing units in New York City and the Southeast, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. He was 90 years old and lived in Palm Beach, Fla., and Manhattan.
        He died of natural causes, his son, Peter, said.
        After World War II, Mr. Gross forged a sizable reputation as a builder of large-scale developments and low-cost family homes -- many of them for returning veterans. Among his most well-known projects were Glen Oaks Village and Windsor Parks in Queens and Cannon Point North and South in Manhattan. Joined Father's Business
        Mr. Gross was born in Queens and attended City College of New York before joining his father's business in 1921.
        With his brother, George M. Gross, Mr. Gross formed Gross Brothers Corporation, and later, the Gross-Morton Company, building more than 7,000 one-family houses and garden apartments in Queens. He also sponsored large rental construction projects in Norfolk, Va., Aiken, S.C., and Baltimore to help meet the housing demand in the expanding industrial South.
        In the 1950's, Mr. Gross became enmeshed in a controversy over "windfall" profits collected by post-war builders using federally insured home mortgage loans. In 1955, in what was considered a test case for developers, the United States Tax Court ruled in favor of the Gross-Morton interests, denying Government attempts to collect about $3 million in back taxes from Gross-Morton stockholders.
        Mr. Gross was a trustee emeritus of New York Law School and the Horace Mann School in Riverdale, the Bronx.  He was the donor of the Alfred and Florence Gross Chair of Surgery at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, from which he recived an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree in 1984.
        Mr. Gross was also a member of the Housing Hall of Fame and a former chairman of the National Association of Home Builders' mortgage finance committee.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Manhattan, Mr. Gross is survived by his wife of 56 years, Florence; a daughter, Jane A. Gross of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      