
        Theodore H. Silbert, who was the chairman of the Sterling National Bank and Trust Company, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Silbert, among the oldest active bankers in the nation, was known as an unusually conservative banker. Sterling did not venture into television advertising until the 1980's. The small commercial bank, which specialized in serving medium-sized businesses, boasted in a poster last year that it had made no loans involved in leveraged buyouts. Its delinquency rate on loans was a fraction of 1 percent.
        Mr. Silbert's cautious approach was a reaction to the financial insecurity of his feast-or-famine youth, when his parents' income fluctuated with their careers as performers in vaudeville, radio and Yiddish theater in the United States and Europe.
        He valued experience and seniority and invited veteran financial experts as Sterling's advisers. They included Abraham D. Beame, the former Mayor of New York. Last year, 5 of Sterling's 12 board members were in their 80's. Executive and College Trustee
        Mr. Silbert was born in Boston. Without a college education, he started in finance by working for the Broadway National Bank in New York City.
        Despite the Depression, he ventured out on his own in the 1930's with a borrowed stake of $1,000. He founded the Standard National and Standard Prudential Corporations as financing companies. In 1968 he bought control of Sterling and became chairman of the New York bank and its holding company, Sterling Bancorp.
        Mr. Silbert served as a trustee of Brandeis University and Bard College. He was the founding chairman of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged and a contributor to the American Cancer Society and the Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
        He was also an officer and fund-raiser in the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, the United Jewish Appeal-Federation, the Hebrew Free Loan Society, Bonds for Israel and the Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries at the Fashion Institute of Technology.
        His first two wives and an only child, Arthur, are deceased. He is survived by his third wife, the former Nadia Stark; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      