
        Anthony Joseph Accardo, a former reputed head of the Chicago crime syndicate whom law-enforcement officials considered responsible for scores of murders during a 60-year career in crime, died peaceably Wednesday at a Chicago hospital. He was 86 years old.
        Mr. Accardo died of congestive heart failure and acute respiratory failure, said a spokeswoman for St. Mary of Mazareth Hospital Center.
        In his later years Mr. Accardo said he was merely a well-to-do businessman, a former beer salesman. But law-enforcement officials said he was a former lieutenant of Al Capone himself and was responsible for numerous slayings while supervising the Chicago syndicate's vast array of other illegal activities.
        Robert R. Fuesel, executive director of the Chicago Crime Commission, a private watchdog group, said Mr. Accardo's long life stemmed from his rule that organized crime in Chicago stay away from drug trafficking, which often exerted an enormous corrupting influence on other crime syndicates. The End of an Era
        "His death marks the end of the Capone era," Mr. Fuesel said. "There's nobody else left now."
        Capone, whose gang terrorized Chicago during Prohibition and controlled gambling and prostitution there, was convicted of income tax evasion in the early 1930's and sentenced to an 11-year prison term. Suffering from syphilis, he was released from prison in 1939 and died in 1947 at the age of 48.
        Some law-enforcement officials have longed believed that Mr. Accardo was one of the killers in the notorious "St. Valentine's Day massacre" in Chicago on Feb. 14, 1929, when seven of Capone's rivals were slain. In the press he was often called Tony (Big Tuna) Accardo, a nickname given him after he caught a 400-pound tuna off Florida in the early 1950's.
        But inside the "Outfit," as its members called the Chicago syndicate, Mr. Accardo's sobriquet was the more sinister "Joe Batters" -- apparently a reference to his predilection for using baseball bats as a weapon.  Only One Day in Jail
        Despite an arrest record that began in 1923, when he was a teen-ager, and several initial convictions for various crimes, Mr. Accardo apparently spent only one day in jail.
        That was on Lincoln's Birthday in 1945 when, driving through downtown Chicago, he was picked up for questioning in a gambling case. Because the courts were closed for the holiday, Mr. Accardo had to remain in jail until the next day.
        The closest Mr. Accardo came to serving a prison sentence was in the early 1960's when he, like Capone, was convicted of income tax evasion.
        The presiding judge, Federal District Judge Julius J. Hoffman, who in 1969 and 1970 presided over the trial of the antiwar protesters known as the "Chicago Seven," sentenced him to six years in prison, fined him $15,000 and ordered him to pay the entire cost of the Federal prosecution effort. Mr. Accardo's lawyers responded that the Government's case was "full of prunes" and appealed the conviction.  Acquitted After Retrial
        Two years later the United States Courts of Appeals, citing numerous judicial errors, reversed the conviction and sent the case back for a retrial. The prosecution's case was fatally weakened by the appellate court ruling, however, and Mr. Accardo was acquitted after a second trial.
        Mr. Accardo "retired" from the Chicago syndicate in 1958, and in later years spent most of his time at his second home in Palm Springs, Calif., law-enforcement officials said.
        Mr. Accardo's advancing age did nothing to lessen the Federal Government's interest in his knowledge of organized crime. But in 1984, at his last appearance before the Senate Governmental Affairs Permanent Subcommitte on Investigations, he continued to deny any role in the Chicago syndicate. "I have no control over anybody," he said. "I've never been a boss."
        Mr. Accardo is survived by his wife, Clarice, and four children.
      