
        Roger H. Gilman, a retired top official of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey who was in charge of planning many of that agency's major projects, died on Thursday at the Muhlenberg Regional Medical Center in Plainfield, N.J. He was 77 years old and lived in Edison.
        He died of kidney failure, his family said.
        In his 36-year career at the authority, Mr. Gilman served 22 years as the director of planning and development for its various mass transit, highway, bridge, port and other projects. In his last two years there he was promoted to assistant executive director of the entire agency, and retired in 1977 as the acting executive director.
        Among the projects in which he played a lead role were the initial planning of the World Trade Center and the Verrazano Narrows Bridge, the acquisition of the old Hudson & Manhattan Railroad that became the PATH line, the expansion of the Lincoln Tunnel and the installation of the lower-level roadway and approaches of the George Washington Bridge.
        From 1961 to 1964 he was on loan from the authority to become the founding executive director of the Tri-State Transportation Committee created by the governors of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Active in Foundations
        Mr. Gilman was a past president of the American Association of Port Authorities, held several posts in the American Society of Civil Engineers and received awards from planning, engineering and community organizations.
        He represented the authority on the National Export Expansion Council, New York Chamber of Commerce, West Side Association of Commerce, Downtown Lower Manhattan Association, New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, Propeller Club, Port of New York and the Greater Newark Chamber of Commerce.
        For many years he was active in the Crescent Avenue Presbyterian Church in Plainfield, serving as a deacon, trustee and elder. He was also past chairman of the Muhlenberg Medical Center and the Diabetes Center of New Jersey and served on the boards of the Muhlenberg Foundation, New Jersey Hospital Association, Huntington Foundation and Frost Valley Young Men's Christian Association.
        Mr. Gilman was born in Plainfield.  He graduated from Harvard in 1936 and went to work for the authority the next year. He served in the Navy during World War II.
        He is survived by a brother, Karl, of Perth Amboy, N.J.
      