
        Dr. Lee Salk, the author of eight books on family relationships and a popular commentator on social change, domestic strife and changing family patterns, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of cancer, his wife, Mary Jane, said.
        A child psychologist, Dr. Salk made frequent television appearances and for 20 years contributed the monthly column, "You and Your Family" to McCall's magazine. In wide-ranging reflections upon changing American values and fundamental human needs, he addressed himself to everything from pop culture (the psychological significance of the cowboy archetype) to contemporary society (the trauma of divorce), to biology (the role and importance of a baby's cry).
        His latest book, "Familyhood, Nurturing the Values That Matter," is to be published by Simon & Schuster in August. His earlier books included "What Every Child Would Like His Parents to Know" (David McKay Company) and "My Father, My Son: Intimate Relationships" (G.P. Putnam's Sons).  Infants' Link to Heartbeat
        Dr. Salk's work first won national attention in 1960, when he published the results of groundbreaking research indicating that the sound of a mother's heartbeat has a calming effect on a newborn infant. While a staff member at City Hospital Center at Elmhurst, Queens, he theorized that mothers who hold their children near their hearts provide an auditory link that quiets the infants and enhances their growth.
        That research grew out of his casual observations at the Central Park Zoo that a monkey habitually carried her baby on her left, close to her heart. In a later study of 287 mothers, he found that both right-handed and left-handed women have a strong tendency to cradle their infants near their hearts.
        Dr. Salk tested his theory by broadcasting recordings of a normal heartbeat in a nursery. Babies responded by becoming more tranquil than those in a quiet environment. Prolonged exposure during the first four days of life resulted in increased weight gain, his studies showed. By contrast, babies exposed to the sound of a racing heartbeat appeared agitated.
        "From the most primitive tribal drumbeats to the symphonies of Mozart and Beethoven," he wrote in a report to the World Federation of Mental Health, "there is a startling similarity to the rhythm of the human heart."
        In the decades that followed, Dr. Salk moved away from such technical research and toward theories of family and cultural development. In television appearances on the "Today" show, "Good Morning, America," "Nightline" and Cable News Network, he brought his personal perspective to issues from divorce to drug abuse to child-rearing techniques.
        He also gave advice in lectures and public appearances. One recurring theme was the need for proper discipline. "Children are like scientists," he once said. "They test hypotheses all the time to see what the world is like. But if their world is chaotic -- if the rules keep changing and the parents' reactions keep changing -- they never learn how to cope with freedom."  Drawn Into Divisive Issues
        From the mid-1970's until his death, Dr. Salk's bespectacled visage became a reassuring presence to many who followed his evolving thoughts on an evolving society. His colorful and direct style of speech and his willingness to take on the thorniest issues of the times often thrust him to the center of divisive social issues.
        In the wrenching "generation gap" years of the early 1970's, he added his very personal commentary to a score of difficult public debates. In a December 1971 article for The New York Times, he argued that the bedroom communities of suburbia contributed to family strife, instead endorsing a combination of "city life during the school terms and exposure to natural environment and wilderness" during vacations.
        The suburbs, he warned a nation with many devoted suburbanites, "offer insulation from real problems." Two years later, his book "What Every Child Would Like His Parents to Know" alienated a generation of working women with its caution against abandoning full-time motherhood. "The attention you withhold from a young child," he cautioned, "will be demanded doubly when he is older."
        A decade and a half later, he would grapple with more complex social issues, like the custody decision in the case of "Baby M." He testified in that case that the child's surrogate mother should be denied custody on the grounds that she served as a "surrogate uterus" by agreeing to carry the child to term but did not qualify as a "surrogate mother."
        Dr. Salk's own life was marked by a difficult custody battle in 1975, when he won sole custody of his 14-year-old son, Eric, and 7-year-old daughter, Pia, during a bitter divorce from his Swedish-born wife, Kerstin. Arguments in the case centered on who would be the better parent.
        Neither parent was deemed unfit, and the court determined that Dr. Salk would provide better care. The decision was among the first in the nation to challenge a long-standing legal bias in favor of the mother's rights.
        Dr. Salk, who was born in New York City in 1926, received his A.B., M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan. At the time of his death, he was a professor of psychology in pediatrics and psychiatry at Cornell Univeristy Medical Center, attending psychologist at the Payne Whitney Psychiatric Clinic, consulting psychologist in the pediatrics department at Lenox Hill Hospital and an adjunct professor of child development at Brown University. He was a member of the Harvard Society and the Royal Society of Medicine.
        In addition to his wife, son and daughter, Dr. Salk is survived by his brother, Jonas, the inventor of the polio vaccine.
      