
        Joseph F. Gagliardi, a longtime justice and administrative judge for the Ninth Judicial District of the State Supreme Court in New York, died on Friday at White Plains Hospital Center. He was 80 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y.
        He died after a yearlong illness, according to the John J. Fox Funeral Home in Larchmont.
        His most noted case came as a State Supreme Court Justice in 1964, when he presided over the child custody battle between Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's wife, Happy, and her former husband, Dr. James S. Murphy. Justice Gagliardi awarded custody of their four children to Dr. Murphy, whom Mrs. Rockefeller had divorced a year earlier. A Williams Graduate
        Justice Gagliardi, who was born in 1911 in Larchmont, N.Y., graduated from Williams College and Brooklyn Law School. He served for several years as an assistant district attorney of Westchester County, then as acting police justice of Larchmont and, briefly, as Mayor.
        In 1954, Justice Gagliardi, a Republican, was appointed District Attorney of Westchester County. He was re-elected twice before Governor Rockefeller made him a county judge in 1960.
        A year later he was elected to the State Supreme Court, an office he held until he became administrative judge for the Ninth Judicial District in 1974, overseeing state courts in Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam and Dutchess Counties.
        As administrative judge, Justice Gagliardi presided over a series of judicial actions intended to reduce the backlog of civil cases in the state, including using arbitration panels of lawyers in civil cases and transferring judges from less busy rural courts to overwhelmed courts in cities. He retired in 1987.
        He is survived by two sons, Joseph F. of Riverside, Conn.; and Frank M. of Chicago; two daughters, Mary Ann Murray of Amherst, N.H., and Eileen Walsh of Saratoga Springs, N.Y.; a brother, Lee P. Gagliardi of Manchester, Vt.; four sisters, Gloria Gagliardi and Mary Ann Dugan of Fairfield, Conn.; Diana Collins of Carmel, N.Y., and Phinina Forbes of Connecticut; 17 grandchildren, and 8 great-grandchildren.
      