
        Andres Bossard, a founding member of Mummenschanz, the Swiss mime trio that achieved international popularity with its sophisticated commentary on the human condition, died on March 25 in Brunnen, Switzerland. He was 47 years old and lived in Zurich.
        Bernie Schurch, who formed Mummenschanz in 1971 with Mr. Bossard and Floriana Frassetto, said by telephone from Switzerland that Mr. Bossard had died of AIDS.
        Mummenschanz, which now has several touring troupes with other performers presenting its past programs, will continue, Mr. Schurch said. He said Mr. Bossard had been working with his colleagues on a new show for 1993, with plans to open in New York in 1994.  Evolution in a Sack
        Although all three original performers in Mummenschanz were masked, Mr. Bossard could be recognized as the biomorphic shape in a sack that opened the group's first show: a bouncing primeval blob in a hilarious tale of human evolution.
        "Andres came from the cabaret world and he was very good acrobatically," Mr. Schurch said. "Physically, he was the best of us. He was a comedian. I came, like Floriana, from the mime side, more involved in abstraction and silence. Coming together from different backgrounds, we blended to become Mummenschanz."
        Mr. Bossard was born in Zurich on Aug. 9, 1944, and attended the School of Arts and Crafts there. After a year, he started a cabaret act, "Chlupplisack" and then was a writer and actor for several German and Austrian cabarets. At the theater school of Jacques Lecoq in Paris, he met Mr. Schurch, another Swiss student studying mime, with whom he created a joint program in 1969.
        Over the next two years, they explored the use of abstract and geometric masks and mime that did not play upon illusion. Miss Frassetto saw the duo perform in Rome in 1970 and joined them to form Mummenschanz, which created its first program in 1972. The name derived from games of chance played by Swiss mercenaries who wore masks to hide their expressions.
        Mummenschanz was virtually unknown in New York before its successful debut at Alice Tully Hall in 1973, but subsequent visits led to a three-year run on Broadway at the Bijou Theater, beginning in 1977, and international tours.
        Mr. Bossard touched upon the trio's philosophical concerns in describing the headless figures that dominated a second program, "The New Show," which was at the Joyce Theater in Manhattan in 1986. He said: "Our culture encourages people to disconnect their heads from their bodies, to be distracted from their status as harmonious human beings. Headless we run wherever they call us -- to do, to buy, to be."
        In recent years, Mr. Bossard also worked in opera productions, directing a movement chorus in Germany and acting as a mime consultant for "Faust" in Taormina, Sicily.
        He is survived by his parents, Eugene and Serena Bossard of Zurich, and two sisters.
      