
        Albert Parry, a professor emeritus of Russian civilization and language and the founder and former chairman of the department of Russian studies at Colgate University, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 92 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        He died of kidney failure, said a son, Thomas.
        Dr. Parry, who was born in Rostov-on-Don, Russia, came to the United States in 1921 after having witnessed the Russian Revolution as a high school student and shipped out as a sailor in the Russian Merchant Marine.
        He quickly found a career writing articles for newspapers and magazines, and for a brief period even worked as a screenwriter on several Hollywood silent films. Eventually, he would write more than a dozen books on subjects that included the history of bohemianism in America, the history of tattooing, terrorism and Russia's rockets and missiles.
        In the early 1930's Dr. Parry began studying history, a lifelong interest, at the University of Chicago. He earned bachelor's and doctoral degrees in the field in 1935 and 1938, respectively.
        Dr. Parry temporarily shelved his academic career when World War II erupted and joined the Office of Strategic Services in Washington.
        After the war Dr. Parry taught briefly at Northwestern University before joining Colgate in 1947. The Russian Studies curriculum he organized there was the first such program in the country. Dr. Parry retired from Colgate in 1969 and became chairman of the Slavic Studies department at Case Western Reserve University. He retired from Case Western in 1971.
        In 1954, Dr. Parry warned in an article that the Soviets would soon be able to launch a space satellite, and in another article published in July 1957, he predicted the launching would occur that Sept. 17. The Soviet Union launched Sputnik 1 on Oct. 4.
        His last book, a biography of the Russian founder of St. Petersburg, Fla., was published in 1987.
        Dr. Parry was a longtime consultant to the Voice of America and Radio Free Europe and a visiting scholar at Radio Liberty.
        Dr. Parry is survived by his former wife, Louise Goodman Parry, of Philadelphia; two sons, James, of Greenwich, Conn., and Thomas, of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      