
        Malcolm Ames MacIntyre, who created a new format for air travel with Eastern Air Lines' popular shuttle service between New York, Boston and Washington, died on Wednesday at Fairfax Hospital in McLean, Va. He was 84 years old and lived in McLean.
        He died of complications from emphysema, his family said.
        Mr. MacIntyre was Eastern Air Lines' president and chief executive from 1959 to 1963. Before that he served as Under Secretary of the Air Force from 1957-59. He was also an executive at the Martin Marietta Corporation from 1964 to 1972 and then practiced law until his retirement in 1987.
        His innovation of shuttle flights in 1961 featured low-cost fares, regular hourly flights, no frills like meals or beverages and -- in the greatest departure from airline tradition -- no reservations. Yet seating was guaranteed, with extra aircraft supplied to carry added passengers, even if it meant rolling out a plane for a solitary customer, as happened a few times. Catering to Business People
        Mr. MacIntyre's concept of the shuttle service grew from his own frustrations as a frequent flier. "I was always baffled that airlines didn't cater to business people's needs more," he said.
        For the shuttle service, Eastern activated an otherwise idle fleet of old-fashioned piston planes, whose slower speeds in the jet age were only a minor drawback on the short hops from New York to Boston and Washington.
        The shuttle service was scorned by executives of competing airlines as an airborne cattle-car. But the idea of cheap, dependable, no-hassle flights quickly caught on with multitudes of air commuters. Eastern initially charged $13 for flights between LaGuardia or Newark and Boston and $15 between LaGuardia or Newark and Washington.
        From 1961 to 1963, Eastern's shuttles carried 2.6 million passengers. In those two years Eastern, which previously had a minor share of the business between the New York area and Washington, had 70 percent of the business.
        Although the shuttle was a success and turned a steady profit for Eastern, the company had other problems. Rhodes Scholar
        A strike by flight engineers disrupted operations for 11 weeks in 1962. Eastern explored combining operations with other companies, but a plan to merge with American Airlines was vetoed by the Civil Aeronautics Board in 1962.
        Mr. MacIntyre, a descendant of John Alden, who came to America on the Mayflower, was born in Boston.
        In 1929 he graduated with honors from Yale University. He earned one law degree at Oxford University in England as a Rhodes Scholar and another from Yale Law School. He started practicing law with the Manhattan firm of Sullivan & Cromwell.
        In 1941 he joined the United States Army Air Corps in the Air Transport Command and left the service in 1946 with the rank of colonel. He resumed work as a senior partner in the Douglas, Proctor, MacIntyre & Gates law firm in Washington from 1946-48, then became a partner in the Debevoise, Plimpton & MacLean law firm in Manhattan.
        A specialist in corporate, tax, labor and aviation law, Mr. MacIntyre became general counsel and vice president of American Airlines. He was recruited to Eastern by its major shareholder, Laurence S. Rockefeller, who knew Mr. MacIntyre through business dealings.
        Mr. MacIntyre served on the boards of Twentieth Century Fox, the J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation, the Avco Corporation and the Carnegie Foundation. He was also a mayor of Scarsdale, N.Y.
        He is survived by his wife of 58 years, the former Clara Bishop; a son, Bruce MacIntyre of Baltimore; two daughters, Clare MacIntyre-Ross of Arlington, Va., and Pamela MacIntyre of McKinney, Tex., and two grandchildren.
      