
        Carl W. Walter, a noted surgeon and inventor who developed blood transfusion equipment and crusaded for infection control in operating rooms, died Tuesday at the Stillman Infirmary in Cambridge, Mass. He was 86 years old and lived in Holliston, Mass.
        He died of a stroke, his family said.
        A longtime Harvard professor, Dr. Walter was also a medical innovator and an entrepreneur. In 1937, he founded the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital blood bank, which became the blood center serving the Boston area and the prototype for the Red Cross blood program in World War II. Improved Blood Equipment
        He helped develop an early artificial kidney for dialysis and also devised new materials and equipment for collecting, storing and transfusing blood that replaced fragile glass bottles with plastic bags, thus preventing losses from breakage.
        His consuming mission was to rid operating rooms of germs. In a typical speech, he warned doctors: "You are villains in a plot against your patients. Because of your negligence, 90 percent of the nation's hospitals are a menace to health." Such admonitions led to stricter sterilization practices.
        In a business venture in 1935, he cofounded Fenwal Inc. to produce a thermostat invented by a friend's relative, Wilfred J. Turenne, who was a refrigerator repairman. Fenwal grew to a multimillion-dollar operation with hundreds of workers making millions of industrial thermostats. Fenwal hired disabled workers and was run democratically, with employees controlling the budget and sharing profits and bonuses.
        Dr. Walter was born in Cleveland. Working his way through Harvard selling newspapers and doing odd jobs, he earned his bachelor's degree in 1928 and his medical degree in 1932. New Sterilization Technique
        As an intern, he investigated the deaths of five patients from gangrene and discovered that some germs had survived on medical instruments supposedly sterilized in boiling water. Using pressurized steam to achieve higher temperatures, he greatly improved sterilization techniques.
        Dr. Walter taught surgery at Harvard Medical School from 1937 until 1972, then for a decade was the director of its alumni fund.
        He was also the director of Brigham Hospital's Environmental Sepsis Laboratory, a board member of the New England Regional Primate Research Center and chairman of the Harvard Hospital Safety Committee, the National Fire Protection Association's Hospitals Committee and the National Research Council's Fire Research Committee.
        He wrote widely and won awards from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the Society of Manufacturing Engineers.
        Surviving are his wife of 63 years, the former Margaret Davis; two sons, Carl E. Walter of North Granby, Conn., and David A. Walter of New Ipswich, N.H.; four daughters, Martha LeRoy of Center Harbor, N.H., Alice O'Brien of Melbourne, Fla., Linda Van deCar of Amherst, N.H., and Margaret Rice of North Hampton, N.H.; two brothers, Paul W. Walter of Bratenahl, Ohio, and Armin A. Walter of Columbus, Ohio; a sister, Ruth Helmuth of Cleveland, and 14 grandchildren.
      