
        John Elliott, a foreign correspondent whose prophetic criticisms of Hitler led him to join the Allied effort and become a postwar occupation official in Germany, died on Saturday at the Fernwood House nursing home in Washington. He was 95 years old.
        He died of natural causes, but a specific diagnosis was not given, a nephew said.
        Reporting for The New York Herald Tribune, Mr. Elliott wrote in 1931 that "the specter of dictatorship menaces the German republic." He described Hitler, then a rising dissident, as a "fiery crusader" and "magnetic" orator. But he also called the Austrian-born Nazi leader a demagogue who "aspires to be a dictator" and "is not even a citizen of the country whose fate he may someday hold in his hands." Reported on Jews
        His predictions came true. In 1934 he wrote a chilling assessment of the new totalitarian regime that began "Germany today is a military state" and went on to detail the Nazis' rigid control over the country. In 1935 he reported extensively on the growing persecution of Jews, quoting one official who called for mass castration. Mr. Elliott labeled such proposals an "extermination policy."
        The German police seized newsstand copies of his newspaper in 1935, angered by his denunciation of Nazi "butchers" for executions in a purge. Under pressure, he moved to Paris. He reported on the Spanish Civil War and the outbreak of war between Germany and France, filing dispatches that were sometimes heavily censored by foreign officials. Twice in 1941 the Vichy Government suspended him from reporting.
        He left journalism to become a major in the United States Army's psychological warfare branch in London, where he edited propaganda leaflets that planes dropped on Germany. After the war he was appointed deputy director of the Civil Administration Division of the occupation government in 1947, chief of its political activities in 1948 and chairman of the official newspaper, Neue Zeitung, in 1949. In the 1950's he helped create Radio Free Europe. Worked for U.S. Agency
        Returning to the United States, he worked briefly on The Herald Tribune's financial news staff in Washington, then joined the Agency for International Development for about a decade before retiring about 1967.
        He was born in Morristown, N.J., and earned bachelor's degrees from Princeton and Columbia Universities. He also studied at the University of Montpellier in France.
        His wife, the former Edna Muriel Law, died in 1984. He is survived by two sons, John of Bethesda, Md., and Robert of Ross, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      