
        Charles M. Bogert, a leading expert on reptiles and amphibians and curator emeritus of the herpetology department at the American Museum of Natural History, died on April 10 at his home in Sante Fe, N.M. He was 84 years old.
        He committed suicide, said his wife, Martha Bogert. She said he had a stroke four years ago, had difficulty getting around and feared having to go into a nursing home.
        His research spanned the study of the behavior, distribution, morphology, evolution and ecology of reptiles and amphibians. He conducted early research on temperature control mechanisms in reptiles and amphibians and was a pioneer in recording and analyzing the sounds made by toads and frogs.
        Mr. Bogert was born in Mesa, Colo. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1934 and a master's degree there in 1936. He received an honorary degree from the university in 1966.
        He joined the American Museum of Natural History in Manhattan in 1936 as an assistant curator in the department of herpetology, later becoming associate curator, curator and finally, in 1945, chairman of the department.  After his retirement in 1968, Mr. Bogert became curator emeritus. He also was an adjunct professor at the University of New Mexico.
        Twenty-one reptiles and amphibians were named after Mr. Bogert by his colleagues, the last one a subspecies of the venomous Mexican beaded lizard called heloderma horridum charlesbogerti, said his wife.
        Mr. Bogert was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the New York Academy of Science and the New York Zoological Society. He was a member of the board of the American Society of Ichthyologists and Herpetologists and served as the society's president and vice president. He was the first president of the Herpetologists' League and served on the editorial boards of the journals Ecology and Copeia.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Patricia B. Holbrook of Santa Fe, and two grandchildren.
      