
        Willard L. Thorp, an economist who served three Presidents in domestic and foreign affairs, helped draft the Marshall Plan and was also prominent in business and education, died yesterday at his home in Pelham, Mass. He was 92 years old.
        His wife said he collapsed and died.
        Dr. Thorp advocated international trade and foreign aid to promote prosperity, political stability, democracy and peace. He began a 1948 policy address on America's plans for post-war Germany saying, "A great responsibility is created for any nation which is victorious in war."
        Among his influential posts was that as the United States' alternate delegate to the United Nations General Assembly, where he sat next to Eleanor Roosevelt and John Foster Dulles.
        Although many of his appointments were in diplomatic posts, he did not shy from controversy. He was an outspoken critic of both Soviet repression and Red-baiting. Active in Several Worlds
        As President Harry S. Truman's Assistant Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, Dr. Thorp helped draft the Marshall Plan for aid to rebuild Europe after World War II and negotiated the final agreement with 16 other nations. He was also assigned to carry out the Point Four aid program to under-developed nations, a program Truman announced in his inaugural address.
        Earlier Dr. Thorp held posts in President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal programs, and in the 1960's he embarked on missions for President John F. Kennedy.
        In the business world, he became the chief economist and researcher for Dun & Bradstreet and created and edited its Dun's Review, a monthly newsletter for clients.
        As an educator, he taught economics at Amherst College, starting in 1927 at the age of 28, when he was believed to be the nation's youngest tenured full professor. Later he served as a trustee and acting president and ran Amherst's Merrill Center for Economics, an annual conference in Southampton, L.I.
        Born in Oswego, N.Y., he grew up in Chelsea, Mass., and Duluth, Minn. He served as a second lieutenant in the Army in World War I. After graduating from Amherst in 1920, he studied economics, earning a master's degree at the University of Michigan in 1921 and a doctorate at Columbia University in 1924.
        In 1923 he was among the first hired at the new National Bureau of Economic Research, where he began compiling centralized data. His studies led to the 1926 publication of "Business Annals," a book of economic statistics for 17 countries dating to 1890. Years later he was a member of the bureau's board.
        Under Roosevelt, he was named director of the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, but the Senate declined to confirm him because he once voted Republican. But he went on to serve in a six-member committee to overhaul tariff laws, was director of the National Emergency Council's Consumer Division and became chairman of the National Recovery Administration's Policy Board.
        Joining Dun & Bradstreet in Manhattan 1935 as its first economist, he quickly built a staff to draw economic analyses from the company's vast files.
        In 1938 he resumed part-time work in Washington as an adviser to the Secretary of Commerce and a principal analyst for Congress's National Economic Committee on monopolies.
        Starting in 1945, he served under four Secretaries of State. He represented the United States at the General Agreement Tariffs and Trade talks in Geneva and at the Paris Peace Conference.
        His vigorous advocacy provoked a denunciation from the Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister, Andrei Y. Vishinsky, who said, "We all know that statisticians are liars, that American statisticians are the worst liars, and Willard Thorp is president of the American Statistical Organization."
        In the 1950's and 60's Dr. Thorp returned to academia, mainly at Amherst. He was also a trustee at Brandeis University and taught at four other institutions as well.
        At the request of Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold, he headed a United Nations mission to Cyprus after the British withdrew from the island in 1960.
        For President Kennedy, he headed an economic mission to Bolivia in 1961 and was given the rank of ambassador while serving four years as chairman of the Development Assistance Committee in Paris, a coalition of nations giving foreign aid.
        After retiring at Amherst in 1965, he remained active as a speaker, writer and consultant and local volunteer. He was chairman of the Pelham Finance Committee from 1977 to 1987 and town treasurer from 1987 to 1990.
        His first marriage, to Hildegarde Ellen Churchill, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, the former Clarice Brows, a lawyer; two daughters, Barbara Gerhard of Las Cruces, N.M., and Robin Frazier of Milton, Vt.; a sister, Margaret Hamilton of Mendham, N.J., and seven grandchildren.
      