
        Dr. Alfred McClung Lee, a sociologist whose work explored critical areas of American life from race relations to journalism during a 50-year career, died on Tuesday at his home in Madison, N.J. He was 85 years old.
        Dr. Lee died of congestive heart failure, said his son, Alfred McClung Lee 3d.
        At the time of his death, Dr. Lee was professor emeritus of Brooklyn College, where he had been head of the sociology and anthropology department during most of the 1950's, and professor emeritus of the City University Graduate Center. He was also a distinguished research professor at Drew University.
        From the beginning of his career, Dr. Lee was involved in some of the most critical national and international issues of the time.
        His first book, developed from his doctoral thesis at Yale, dealt with the character and influence of American newspapers. The book, "The Daily Newspaper in America, The Evolution of a Social Instrument," drew critical acclaim and won the 1937 Research Award of Sigma Delta Chi, the national professional journalism society. Addressed Race Issues
        His second book, of which he was a co-author, was "The Fine Art of Propaganda" and was published during World War II. It led to a national education project that sought to develop habits of critical thinking in schoolchildren that would enable them to discern propaganda better.
        In the 1940's and 1950's, Dr. Lee wrote influential books on the 1943 race riot in Detroit and on racial and religious discrimination in college fraternities and sororities.
        He also worked with the broad group of scholars and civil rights advocates whose sociological research and legal strategies from the 1930's to the 1950's led to the Brown vs. Topeka Board of Education school desegregation decision by the United States Supreme Court in 1954.
        And in the late 1970's and early 1980's, Dr. Lee wrote extensively on the conflict between Catholics and Protestants in Northern Ireland.
        Born in Oakmont, Pa., Dr. Lee received a bachelor's degree in English composition and mathematics in 1927, and a master's degree in sociology from the University of Pittsburgh in 1931. He received a doctorate in sociology from Yale University in 1933 and was appointed a Sterling Fellow in Sociology there for post-graduate work.
        In addition to Brooklyn College, Dr. Lee also taught at several other universities, including Yale, Wayne State University and New York University.
        His many honors included the Distinguished Career Award of the American Sociological Association and the Distinguished Career Award of the Clinical Sociology Association.
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth Briant Lee; two sons, Alfred McClung 3d, of Ashfield, Mass., and Briant H., of Bowling Green, Ohio; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      