
        Dr. Robert Warner, who helped save tens of thousands of youngsters from retardation by fostering the invention of a simple test now given to all American babies and millions more worldwide, died on Sunday at Buffalo General Hospital.
        He was 80 years old and lived in Buffalo. He died of cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Warner, a pediatrician who specialized in treating disabled children, was the founding medical director of the Children's Hospital Rehabilitation Center in Buffalo. He worked at the center, which is now named for him, for 27 years, until retiring in 1982.
        Among his patients were children retarded because of phenylketonuria, or PKU. That is a genetic disorder that causes abnormal brain development by inhibiting the metabolizing of phenylalanine. Treatment was hindered because measuring phenylalanine levels required cumbersome tests using large amounts of blood. Simple Test Developed
        Through his work, Dr. Warner met Dr. Robert Guthrie, a cancer researcher with a retarded child. When Dr. Warner described the testing problems, Dr. Guthrie wondered about adapting much simpler procedures he used in cancer work.
        Dr. Warner urged him on, and the two men became friends and colleagues. In 1961, Dr. Guthrie developed a simple test that required just a drop of blood. Dr. Warner's center became the first institution to perform that test with frequency.
        Initially used to evaluate retarded youngsters, the test was then expanded to diagnose the condition of newborn infants. Once detected, affected babies are fed a special diet that reduces phenylalanine and enables generally normal development. Otherwise, they face a high probability of severe to mild retardation.
        The test is now mandatory in all states and standard in most industrialized countries. Dr. Harvey Levy of Children's Hospital in Boston estimated that the test had saved up to 100,000 children from retardation. Variety Clubs Telethon
        Dr. Warner was born in Buffalo. He graduated from Harvard College in 1935 and earned his medical degree at the University of Chicago in 1939.
        During World War II, he served with the Army Medical Corps in the South Pacific. For many years he taught pediatrics at the University of Buffalo.
        Dr. Warner was best known in Buffalo for his leadership in the annual Variety Clubs Telethon, a major local fund-raising event. He served on many state and national panels, including a White House Conference on Handicapped Individuals. He was also a board member at the Temple Beth Zion and Buffalo Philharmonic Orchestra Society.
        Surviving are his wife of 53 years, the former Nancy Stern; a daughter, Nancy-Gene Warner Morrison of Los Angeles; a son, Robert Jr., of Vail, Colo., and four grandchildren.
      