
        William Gellman, a psychologist who helped refocus vocational rehabilitation from the teaching of physical skills in specific trades to broader approaches for success in any workplace, died Monday at his home in Chicago. He was 80 years old.
        A spokesman for the Gellman family said the cause of death was cancer.
        Dr. Gellman helped people with physical or psychological disabilities find and keep jobs that would give them more purpose and greater self-esteem, as well as income and security.
        His methods were a major departure from the traditional vocational rehabilitation programs, which taught disabled people the narrow skills needed to be clerks, custodians, welders and workers in specific trades.
        Instead, he devised programs to teach more general skills needed to succeed in any workplace, like the importance of being on time, understanding job duties, asking for clarification when instructions are unclear and getting along with supervisors and co-workers. His approach became widely copied around the world. Helped War Refugees
        For 31 years Dr. Gellman was the executive director of Jewish Vocational Services in Chicago. Among the early clients helped by his program were the last World War II refugees from camps for displaced persons, many of whom had been isolated from normal life for up to 15 years and needed help readjusting to a workplace.
        After retiring from Jewish Vocational Services in 1978, Dr. Gellman became a professor and chairman of the Rehabilitation Administration Department at DePaul University. He also founded and headed the Council of Rehabilitation Affiliates and was the director of the Easter Seal Research Foundation for 17 years.
        He served on the President's National Advisory Council on Vocational Education, was a consultant to several foreign countries.
        Dr. Gellman was born in Manhattan. He graduated from Columbia University and earned a master's degree in psychology at New York University and a doctorate in psychology at the University of Chicago.
        He is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Rhoda Honig; a daughter, Laura Tze of Blacksburgh, Va.; and two grandchildren.
      