
        Li Xiannian, a politician and military commander who rose to become President of China and a leading hard-liner, died on Sunday night, the official New China News Agency announced today. He would have been 83 years old on Tuesday.
        The agency said that Mr. Li, who was president from 1983 to 1988, died in Beijing of an illness it did not specify.
        Mr. Li was one of a handful of elderly leaders who, despite nominal retirement, exercised ultimate control over the nation. His death is expected to be a blow to China's surviving hard-liners, who are waging a power struggle with those leaders who favor more rapid economic change.
        While he almost never appeared in public in the last few years, Mr. Li remained one of those whom Deng Xiaoping, the senior leader, needed to consult on all crucial decisions. From his courtyard home along a narrow lane in the southwest corner of Zhongnanhai, the park that serves as the Communist Party headquarters, Mr. Li continued to exert pressure for ideological orthodoxy and continued devotion to central planning. Nimble Politician
        Mr. Li was a member of the Communist Party Central Committee for nearly half a century, and he displayed an uncanny ability to escape the various purges that set back or ruined the careers of his colleagues. His career was intertwined with that of Mr. Deng, whom he alternately worked with and against.
        During the Tiananmen Square democracy movement in the spring of 1989, Mr. Li gave strong support to Mr. Deng for the military suppression of the movement. Mr. Li also worked with Mr. Deng in the mid-1970's in trying to resurrect the economy from the damage caused by the Cultural Revolution. He reportedly also pushed for the rehabilitation of Mr. Deng after his purge in 1976.
        At some other times, Mr. Li seemed less politically astute. In 1976, when Mr. Deng was in disgrace, Mr. Li seized the occasion to urge the Chinese people to "deepen the struggle to criticize Deng Xiaoping."
        But in the 1980's, not long after Mr. Li helped Mr. Deng return to power, he was increasingly becoming a rival. He distrusted many of the capitalist-style changes that Mr. Deng wanted to introduce, and he was wary of the men that Mr. Deng named as his political heirs. Mr. Li played a role in the disgrace and dismissal of both of those heirs, Hu Yaobang in 1987 and Zhao Ziyang in 1989. Busy to the Last
        Even during the last days of his life, Mr. Li was believed to have written a letter urging the leadership to continue to guard against Western influences.
        Li Xiannian (pronounced lee shee-enn-nee-enn) was born on June 23, 1909, to a poor family in Hongan County in a northern province, Hubei. He appeared to have had no formal education. He trained as a carpenter, and joined the Communist Party in 1927 after helping the Chinese Nationalist forces of Chiang Kai-shek for a year.
        His sharp negotiating skills helped him rise through the Communist Party and his rural toughness proved useful when as an army captain, he joined Mao's Long March in 1935, the epic journey that took the besieged Communist forces from a threatened base in eastern China to a new headquarters in north-central China.
        He led guerrilla forces in Hubei in 1939 against the Japanese, and by 1941 He had 60,000 men under his command. Self-Taught Economist
        In 1945, Mr. Li was elected to the party's Central Committee, a post he retained until his retirement in 1987. After the defeat of the Japanese, Mr. Li led his army forces against Chiang's Nationalists, until they fled the mainland in 1949. That year, Mr. Li was made chairman of the Hubei provincial government in the new Communist state.
        Mr. Li taught himself how to manage an economy, perhaps after he was appointed in 1952 as Mayor of Wuhan, an industrial city. Two years later, he became a Deputy Prime Minister, and in 1956 he was chosen for the Politburo, where he held a seat through 1987.
        In 1957, Mr. Li was picked as Finance Minister. After the failure of the Great Leap Forward, a Maoist plan begun in 1958 to catch up with the industrialized West, Mr. Li worked with Mr. Deng and others to repair the damage to the nation's economy.
        He soon became involved in nearly all aspects of running the economy, from agriculture to trade and economic planning. At one point in the 1950's, Mr. Li was assigned two Soviet advisers with whom, he later said, he quarreled daily. The experience gave rise to his suspicions of the Soviet Union. But he also resented the United States for supporting the Nationalists on Taiwan. 'You Young People . . .'
        In 1983 Mr. Li was elected President, a largely ceremonial post that he got in part because of his support for Mr. Deng. In 1985, before going to the United States for an official visit, he chatted with reporters about his backaches and other problems.
        "I'm old," he said. "You young people don't understand us old folks."
        Mr. Li retired from the presidency early in 1988, when he was given the new post -- even more ceremonial than the previous one -- as head of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.
        He is survived by his wife, Lin Jiamei, three daughters and a son.
      