
        Dr. Robert Gordis, an author, rabbi and biblical scholar at the Jewish Theological Seminary, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old.
        He died of complications after a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Gordis, who was ordained at the seminary in 1932, taught Bible and Jewish philosophy there from 1937 until a few years ago, when illness forced him to quit. At his death, he held the title of professor emeritus of Bible and philosophy.
        In 1985, Dr. Gordis became the chairman of the Commission on the Philosophy of Conservative Judaism, a group of 35 scholars and lay people who spent three years producing "Emet Ve-Emunah: Statement of Principles of Conservative Judaism." For the first time in more than 100 years, the commission tried to put into words what it means to be Conservative, a movement often defined by what it is not: not Orthodoxy to the right nor Reform to the left.
        The document, which has been studied by Conservative congregations nationwide, said that the movement, with two million members, "articulates a vital, meaningful vision of Judaism for our day" by "retaining most of the tradition" while confronting a vast array of contemporary issues, from the role of women to faith after the Holocaust. Interfaith Relations
        Dr. Gordis was also a pioneer in the area of interfaith relations, a theme reflected in the document. "Theological humility requires us to recognize that although we have but one God, God has more than one nation," it states.
        The scope of Dr. Gordis's interests and the variety of his students were reflected in a special issue of the quarterly journal "Judaism," published by the American Jewish Congress in the fall of 1991. The issue, a "Festschrift" dedicated to Dr. Gordis, dealt with biblical scholarship, anti-Semitism, the role of the rabbi, concepts of God, messianism and conversion. The articles were written by scholars from around the country and from Israel.
        Among Dr. Gordis's books on biblical scholarship were "The Biblical Text in the Making," "Koheleth: The Man and His World," "Song of Songs," and "The Book of God and Man: A Study of Job." His books about Judaism and its role in the modern world included "Judaism for the Modern Age" and "The Dynamics of Jewish Law."
        For more than three decades, ending with his retirement in 1968, Dr. Gordis also served as the rabbi of Temple Beth El of Rockaway Park, Queens, where he established the first Conservative Jewish day school.
        He also taught at Temple University in Philadelphia, Columbia University and Union Theological Seminary. He was past president of the Synagogue Council of America, which represents all branches of Judaism, and past president of the Rabbinical Assembly of America, the association of Conservative rabbis.
        He is survived by his wife, Fannie; three sons, Enoch of Rockville, Md., Leon of Baltimore, and David of Los Angeles; a brother, Philip, of Manhattan; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      