
        Allison Dunham, a retired law professor who helped reshape many major state laws across the nation to make the provisions uniform, died on Thursday at his home in Pomona, Calif. He was 78 years old.
        He died apparently of a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Dunham specialized in probate and property law, including zoning, land regulation and urban development.
        He helped reshape many statutes during his tenure from 1962 to 1969 as the executive director of the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, which promotes standardized legislation.
        Working for the conference in the late 1940's, Mr. Dunham also led the effort to write the Uniform Commercial Code, which was eventually adopted by 49 states. The code governs everything from checks to the sale of all goods of more than $500.
        He also worked with the American Law Institute, which analyzes and compares state laws, and served on the Illinois Commission on Uniform State Laws. Served in World War II
        An expert on laws involved in urban development, Mr. Dunham served as the director of the Center for Urban Studies at Chicago from 1971 to 1977. He then served as the general counsel for the University of Chicago and secretary to its board until 1979.
        He taught for 28 years at the University of Chicago Law School, from 1951 to 1979. He also taught at Columbia and Indiana universities. He retired in 1983.
        Mr. Dunham was born in Wessington Springs, S.D. He graduated from Yankton College in South Dakota in 1936 and Columbia Law School in 1939.
        For two years he was the law clerk to Justice Harlan F. Stone of the United States Supreme Court shortly before he became Chief Justice. Mr. Dunham then worked briefly for the Manhattan law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore.
        In World War II, he served in the Navy, reaching the rank of lieutenant commander. He was stationed in Nicaragua as a military attache for Central America and later was secretary to the Joint and Combined Chiefs of Staff in Washington.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, the former Anne Toll; two sons, Stephen Dunham, of Denver, and Andrew Dunham, of Colorado Springs; two brothers, Douglas Dunham of East Lansing, Mich., and Roger Dunham of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 30, 1992, Tuesday
        An obituary on Sunday about Allison Dunham, a professor who helped to make states' laws uniform, misstated the day of his death in Pomona, Calif. It was Friday.
      