
        Dr. Jan Jakob Smulewicz, who escaped a Nazi death sentence by outsmarting concentration-camp guards and after World War II served as radiology chief at three New York City hospitals, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Dr. Smulewicz was the radiology director at Harlem Hospital and previously headed radiology at Queens Hospital Center and at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was also a professor at the Columbia and Mount Sinai medical schools and had taught at the State University of New York at Stony Brook. He wrote more than 100 scientific papers. Born in Poland
        As an administrator, he reorganized and modernized the departments he headed. He also helped advance people of modest means, encouraging orderlies to become doctors, and cleaners to become technicians. At Harlem Hospital he founded a program to help neighborhood youths to become X-ray technicians.
        Born in southeast Poland, he was the sole member of his Jewish family to survive the Holocaust. His father was executed in the German occupation, and his mother, sister, brother and other relatives apparently perished at Auschwitz.
        As a teen-ager, Dr. Smulewicz was imprisoned in a succession of slave labor camps, where he worked as a medic and nurse. Years later he recorded his experiences, which other survivors verified.
        Among his most harrowing moments were the three times he was ordered to be killed. Twice the guards changed their minds. The third time came after he had escaped in a railroad box car but was caught and returned to camp to be hanged the next day, death being the mandatory penalty. Switch in Uniforms
        Overnight, he switched his numbered prison uniform with that of an inmate who had just died of typhus. In the morning, compatriots presented the corpse as Dr. Smulewicz's body. Fearing contagion, the guards declined a close inspection and accepted the identification.
        Shortly before Russian troops finally arrived, he escaped again. He helped liberate other camps, including one where Renata Grzes was held, and they soon married.
        He returned to Poland to study but left because of lingering anti-Semitism. He completed his medical degree at the University of Erlangen in his wife's native Germany. Medal for Sinai Campaign
        He immigrated to Israel, where he stayed for six years, during which he was an Army medical captain and won a combat medal in the 1956 Sinai campaign.
        In 1957, Dr. Smulewicz came to the United States to further his education at Long Island Jewish Hospital, and then remained to become associate director of radiology there.
        His survivors include his wife; a daughter, Hedda Smulewicz-Zucker of Westport, Conn.; a son, Daniel, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      