
        Allan Jones, a Hollywood singing star in the 1930's and 40's whose romantic tenor rang out in 35 films, including "Show Boat," with Irene Dunne, died on Saturday in Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of lung cancer, said his wife, Maria.
        In the 1936 musical "Show Boat," he played the gambler Gaylord Ravenal opposite Miss Dunne as Magnolia Hawks. He achieved tremendous popularity the next year for his rendition of "Donkey Serenade," by Rudolf Friml, in the 1937 film version of "The Firefly," in which he starred with Jeanette MacDonald. A Tenor to a Race-Horse Owner
        He played Ricardo, the tenor lead in the performance of "Il Trovatore" that was the centerpiece of the Marx Brothers' romp "A Night at the Opera" (1935), and a race-horse owner in the Marx Brothers' "Day at the Races" (1937). His screen credits also include "The Great Victor Herbert" (1939), "Honeymoon in Bali" (1939) and "The Boys From Syracuse" (1940).
        Mr. Jones also starred as Sky Masterson in the original national road company of "Guys and Dolls" in the early 1950's. He starred as Don Quixote in a touring company of "Man of La Mancha," which he also directed, in the 1970's. For his performance in that show, he won the 1971 Strawhat Achievement Award for best actor, sponsored by the Council of Stock Theaters, the trade group for summer theaters. The Coal Mines to the Silver Screen
        Mr. Jones, the son of a coal miner, was born in Old Forge, Pa. He grew up in Scranton, Pa., and later lived in Hollywood. Mrs. Jones said her husband had completed a singing tour in March, appearing in Australia and New Zealand.
        Mr. Jones was married for the fourth time in 1967. His previous marriages ended in divorce.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Jack Jones of Los Angeles, a pop singer known for 1960's hits including "Wives and Lovers" and "Lollipops and Roses," and Ted Jones of North Carolina; a daughter, Gail Jones of Los Angeles; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      