
        Frank Yerby, who wrote 32 historical novels that sold in the millions, died on Nov. 29 in a hospital in Madrid. He was 76 years old and lived in Madrid.
        He died of heart failure, said his wife, Blanca. She said she had kept news of her husband's death secret for five weeks at his request.
        Beginning in 1946, with the phenomenally successful "Foxes of Harrow," Mr. Yerby turned out his novels at the rate of nearly one a year for four decades, often using the antebellum South as his setting. His best-known works were "The Golden Hawk" (1948), "A Woman Called Fancy" (1951) and "The Saracen Blade" (1952). In his view, Mr. Yerby told one interviewer in the late 1960's, the novelist's destination was "the never-never land of the spirit, of imagination; and all the arrows point away from the here and now."
        Mr. Yerby was born and reared in Augusta, Ga., and he showed a literary bent early on. By the age of 17, he had had several poems published in small magazines. After earning a bachelor's degree in English at Paine College in Augusta and a master's degree at Fisk University in Nashville, he took courses toward a doctorate in education at the University of Chicago and worked on the Federal Writers Project.
        Mr. Yerby left Chicago in 1939 and taught in the English departments of Florida A&M College in Tallahassee, Southern University in Baton Rouge, La., and the University of Chicago before moving in 1942 to Detroit, where he found work at the Ford Motor Company's Dearborn plant. A Pattern for Popularity
        In 1944 he moved to Long Island, where he worked at an aircraft plant. He placed a story, "Health Card," with Harper's Magazine, gaining his first national exposure and a special O. Henry Memorial Award for a first published short story. He also wrote his first novel, "The Foxes of Harrow," about a Southern plantation and its owners in the generation before the Civil War. The book sold a million copies within a year, and, with its historical setting and action-packed plot, set the pattern for the dozens that followed. He was one of the most popular writers in the United States in the 1940's and 50's.
        Mr. Yerby was an expatriate for most of his life, first in France, where he moved in the early 1950's, and later in Madrid. His most recent novel is "McKenzie's Hundred," published in 1986.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two brothers, Paul, of Detroit, and Alonzo, of Boston; two sons, Jacques, of Detroit, and Jan, of Boca Raton, Fla.; two daughters, Nikki Taussig of Highland Park, N.J., and Faune Hansen of Aspen, Colo., and seven grandchildren.
      