
        William M. Gaines, who as publisher of Mad magazine conferred immortality on a goofy-faced, gaptoothed cover boy and the "What -- me worry?" motto, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70 years old.
        He died in his sleep, editors at Mad said.
        The first issue of the magazine hit the newsstands in 1952, with sharp-eyed sendups of movies, advertising, celebrities and comic strips: Mickey Mouse became "Mickey Rodent" and Superman "Superduperman." To the delight of its largely teen-age audience, it brought satire into the mainstream, along with up-to-the-moment New York humor sprinkled with Yiddish, nonsense and non sequiturs.
        "It was my favorite magazine," said the tenor Robert White. "I remember the first issue. I was just getting over the scare of Mrs. Pruneface in 'Dick Tracy.' "
        Mad's wacky brand of humor influenced everything from The National Lampoon to "Saturday Night Live" to a recent issue of Esquire magazine. Its cover showed President Bush with a grin like Mad's Alfred E. Neuman character and the caption, "What -- me worry?" 'Esoterica in the Margins'
        "It's got to have been an influence on almost every comedy writer I know," said Steve O'Donnell, the head writer for "Late Night With David Letterman." "It's rare that you would meet a comedy writer who doesn't know who Arthur the Potted Plant is, or the kinds of esoterica in the margins that we ardently absorbed because we were scanning every page for most of our childhoods."
        Presiding over those margins was a 240-pound publisher who filled the office water cooler with wine and celebrated hitting the million mark in circulation by packing his staff off to Haiti, where Mad had exactly one subscriber. Few readers ever receive the kind of personal attention that Mr. Gaines lavished on him: Mr. Gaines drove to his house and handed him a subscription-renewal card.
        At Mad's office (on MADison Avenue, it says beneath the table of contents) Mr. Gaines was a sounding board for jokes, but left the writing and drawing to others. "My staff and contributors create the magazine," he said. "What I create is the atmosphere."
        It was an atmosphere as zany as the layouts that went into the magazine. Frank Jacobs, Mr. Gaines's biographer, said a reader once strolled into Mad's Madison Avenue office and cornered the first person he saw, demanding an audience with the publisher. "I am the publisher," the man said.
        He was not a pinstripes-and-suspenders type but a shaggy, rumpled man in baggy trousers and stringy hair that Mr. Jacobs said was "styled only by the force of gravity." He never exercised -- he danced twice in his life (once at a lesson to prepare for his high school prom, the other time at the prom) -- and he played softball once (he managed a single but lost his enthusiasm for the game when someone said he threw like a sissy), skied once (he could not bend over to fasten his skis) and tried water-skiing (but needed one hand to hold up his glasses and one hand to hold up his swimsuit, leaving him no hands to hold the tow).
        Mr. Gaines had inherited a faltering comic-book empire from his father, who favored picture stories from the Bible, in the late 1940's and turned it into a huge success with his own blood-and-guts formula. By 1954, with McCarthyism at its peak, that formula was under attack. The Hartford Courant protested "the filthy stream that flows from the gold-plated sewers of New York," and the Senate Subcommittee to Investigate Juvenile Delinquency held hearings into charges that comics led to moral decay.
        Maria Reidelbach wrote in "Completely Mad: A History of the Comic Book and the Magazine" (1991) that Mr. Gaines volunteered to testify. "The truth is that delinquency is the product of the real environment in which the child lives and not of the fiction he reads," he said.
        Under questioning, he defended what he published as being in good taste. Senator Estes Kefauver asked if a cover showing an ax-wielding man holding a decapitated human head met that standard. Mr. Gaines replied that a cover would be in bad taste if the man had been "holding the head a little higher so the neck would show with the blood dripping from it." But even Mr. Gaines had his limits. He had rejected the artist's first design as too gory.
        A few months later, bloodthirsty goings-on were banned under the Comics Code Authority, modeled on motion-picture production rules. But Mr. Gaines suspended publicaton of his horror comics, a decision that eventually drove him Mad. The magazine had begun when Harvey Kurtzman, a cartoonist who had been interviewing Korean War veterans for combat comic books, came down with jaundice and decided to create something that he could write from his sickbed. Mr. Gaines gave him the go-ahead.
        But to children of the air-raid shelter generation, the first primary-school group taught to "duck and cover" -- hide under school desks and shield their faces in case of the white-hot flash of an atomic bomb -- Mad quickly became an essential part of growing up. Month after month, in its relentlessly good-natured way, Mad told them that everything was askew.
        "It's no accident that it came along when it did, in the 50's," said Tony Hiss, a staff writer at The New Yorker. "That's when TV was beginning to take hold, and one of its unexpected side effects was a new kind of bunkum-detector. All those commercials gave you an awareness that you were being conned and allowed you to see through the hype."
        Alfred E. Neuman, who has been on almost every Mad cover since the mid-1950's, was a composite of characters from the early issues: one whose name was a takeoff on the Hollywood composer Alfred Newman, another the unnamed "What, me worry?" boy. When Al Feldstein took over as editor, Mr. Jacobs said, "he put the two together."
        Mr. Gaines fought a never-ending war between his willpower and restaurants of the world. Every few months, he would have an on-again, off-again flirtation with a new diet. This meant that no two pair of pants fit him at the same moment. His wardrobe, Mr. Jacobs said, looked as if it were fresh out of the laundry hamper, but Mr. Gaines had his own dress code.
        "I own three ties, which I wear as infrequently as possible," he said. "I wear my multicolored tie to wine tastings because it's required. I wear my bright red tie with my orange jacket and my green tie with my brown jacket to restaurants when ties are required. My ties are narrow. I wear short socks, gray or blue, which I buy eight dozen at a time, at Korvettes."
        He is survived by his wife, Annie, and three children, Cathy Missud, Wendy Bucci and Chris Gaines.
      