
        The Rev. Patrick Peyton, the Roman Catholic priest who coined the saying "the family that prays together stays together" and who fostered prayer by millions of people through radio, television, films and worldwide preaching crusades, died on Wednesday in California. He was 83 years old and lived in Albany, N.Y.
        Father Peyton, who often worked on program productions in California, died of kidney failure at the Little Sisters of the Poor home in Los Angeles, said a spokesman for his organizations, the Family Rosary Crusade and Family Theater Productions.
        He became known as the Rosary Priest for his lifelong mission of encouraging Catholic families to pray at home daily and particularly to recite the rosary. He urged followers of other religions to join in praying according to their own beliefs. Audiences of Millions
        Preaching his simple message, he often drew tens of thousands of people to his rallies, and sometimes hundreds of thousands. His radio broadcasts, which included religious dramas featuring top Hollywood stars, reached audiences in the tens of millions.
        His mission, he said, fulfilled a vow he made to the Virgin Mary when he was a seminarian ailing with tuberculosis: if he recovered, he would spread the practice of saying the rosary.
        Father Peyton was born in Carracastle, County Mayo, Ireland, to a Catholic couple who recited the rosary prayer every day. He came to the United States at the age of 19 with his brother, Thomas.
        He sought work at first as a coal miner in Scranton, Pa., but was not strong enough for the job. He became a church sexton, then studied at the Holy Cross Seminary at the University of Notre Dame. He and his brother were ordained in 1941.
        The next year Father Peyton began spreading his message, first at a parish in Albany and then by traveling from parish to parish. In 1945, frustrated at the slow pace, he persuaded the Mutual Broadcasting Company to let him present a radio program. Its success led to more programs on radio and then to television, films, publications, audio tapes and videocassettes.  Stars in Productions
        The performers in his productions included Bing Crosby, Grace Kelly, Gregory Peck, Rosalind Russell, Jimmy Stewart, Helen Hayes, Ronald Reagan, James Dean, Natalie Wood, Robert Young, Raymond Burr, Lucille Ball, Bob Newhart, Jack Benny, Loretta Young and Frank Sinatra.
        In 1952, Father Peyton's crusades drew overflow crowds of 75,000 to the Polo Grounds in New York, 83,000 to Wembley Stadium in London and 80,000 to a stadium in Melbourne, Australia.  In 1961, some 250,000 people heard him at Golden Gate Park in San Francisco. Crowds at rallies the next year in Bogota, Colombia, were estimated at 400,0000 to one million. In all, his appearances on six continents drew an estimated 27 million people.
        Father Peyton was the subject of a 1983 biography, "A Man of Faith," written and published by Jeanne Gosselin Arnold, and he wrote an autobiography, "All for Her" (Doubleday, 1967).
        Surviving are his brother, the Rev. Thomas Peyton of Notre Dame, Ind., and a sister, Sarah Owens of Navan, Ireland.
      