
        Max Lerner, an educator, journalist and student of American civilization who was for many years a syndicated columnist for The New York Post, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 89 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Southampton, L.I.
        He died of a stroke, said his son Stephen, of Washington.
        Mr. Lerner was one of the more conspicuous of the post-World War II nonfiction writers, a humanist whose unabashed liberal conscience led him to the political barricades for more than three decades. Many of his concerns now seem prescient.
        In 1959, for example, in a speech at Douglass College in New Brunswick, N.J., Mr. Lerner called for the formation of an antiwar elite, making it clear that he was worried about what he saw as growing mediocrity among American students. "We should be less concerned about the missile gap than the intelligence gap," he said, "less worried about the missile race than the intelligence race."  Backed Jewish Emigration
        Mr. Lerner was also a longtime advocate of the right of Jews in the Soviet Union and elsewhere in Eastern Europe to immigrate to Israel. In a speech delivered in 1950 to the New Jersey section of the United Jewish Appeal, Mr. Lerner said that such emigration must continue, "no matter how politically impractical or economically unfeasible."
        With all the turmoil of the mid- and late 20th century, Mr. Lerner insisted that he preferred the present "awful but magnificent" era to any other in history. But in a book he wrote in 1957, "America as a Civilization: Life and Thought in the United States Today," he talked of his age as a time in which there was a "fear of ideas and the tenacious cult of property."
        His espousal of ideas regarded as liberal in the 1950's did not sit well with everyone. In the 50's and early 60's, he was regarded as a controversial speaker, and those who invited him to lecture were criticized by patriotic groups who regarded Mr. Lerner as rather subversive and perhaps even soft on the ideas expressed by Communists.
        "Lerner's great distinction is the enemies he has made," wrote Gerald W. Johnson in 1960 in The New York Times in a review of Mr. Lerner's "Book of American Symbols." Mr. Johnson said that "few men in this country are so bitterly hated by so many of the right people."
        Mr. Lerner had been struggling with serious health problems since 1981, when he was stricken with lymphatic cancer. In 1984, he had a heart attack. The prognosis was not promising but the ever-feisty and combative Mr. Lerner surprised his doctors and survived, and wrote a book entitled "Wrestling With the Angel." Published by W. W. Norton in 1990, it described his ordeal and how he overcame it.
        "I would pay attention to doctors, tests and all the paraphernalia of medicine," he wrote, conceding that: "My doctors knew more than I did. But in a crisis of conflicting judgments I would never forget that the final, critical decisions were mine to take."
        Mr. Lerner was born in Minsk, Russia, on Dec. 20, 1902, the son of Benjamin and Bessie Podel Lerner, who immigrated to the United States in 1907. The elder Lerner was an itinerant scholar, and his wife kept a general store in Russia. But when they came to the United States, they moved to Bayonne, N.J., where Benjamin Lerner bought some cows and sold milk door to door. Later he moved his business to the Catskill Mountains but was not successful, and the family ultimately pursued its fortunes in New Haven. A Yale Undergraduate
        Max Lerner attended Hillhouse High School in New Haven, then went to Yale, where he concentrated on literature. He graduated in the Class of 1923. He studied law for a time at Yale after receiving his undergraduate degree but moved to graduate work at Washington University in St. Louis and at the Robert Brookings School of Economics and Government in Washington. After he earned his Ph.D. from Brookings in 1927, his first job was working as an assistant editor to Alvin Johnson, who was compiling an encyclopedia of social sciences.
        Between 1932 and 1935, Mr. Lerner served on the faculty of both Sarah Lawrence College and the Wellesley Summer Institute. After a brief stint teaching at Harvard, he edited The Nation magazine for a time and then taught political science at Williams College from 1938 to 1943.
        In 1943, he left Williams to become editorial director of PM, a New York newspaper without advertising, to eliminate the possibility of pressure from advertisers and special-interest groups. The left-of-center daily proved unprofitable and collapsed in April 1948. Before joining The Post in 1949, he also wrote columns for The New York Star, which tried to succeed PM but lasted only eight months, until January 1949. Mr. Lerner sustained his interest in education even after moving to The Post, and for a time was chairman of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Brandeis.
        Among his books were "Ideas Are Weapons" (1939), "Ideas for the Ice Age: Studies in a Revolutionary Era" (1941), "It Is Later Than You Think" (1938, revised 1943), "The Mind and Faith of Justice Holmes" (1943), "Actions and Passions: Notes of the Multiple Revolution of Our Time" (1949), "The Unfinished Country" (1959) and "The Age of Overkill" (1962). 'Love and Work'
        He also made many contributions to other books and wrote for many magazines, among them The Atlantic, Saturday Review, Vogue and The New Republic. He continued writing for The Post until two weeks ago.
        Mr. Lerner married Anita Marburg in 1928. The couple divorced in 1940. He married Edna Albers in 1941.
        He is survived by his wife; two other sons, Michael, of Bolinas, Calif., and Adam, of Medford, Mass.; two daughters, Constance Russell-Lerner, of San Diego, and Joanna Townsend, of Dallas; nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        In summing up his life for his entry in "Who's Who in America," Mr. Lerner wrote: "I have believed in love and work, and their linkage. I have believed that we are neither angels nor devils, but humans, with clusters of potentials in both directions. I am neither an optimist nor pessimist, but a possibilist."
      