
        Antoni Zygmund, who was a professor of mathematics at the University of Chicago for 45 years, died on Saturday at his home in the Hyde Park section of Chicago. He was 91 years old.
        His death was announced by the University of Chicago.
        Dr. Zygmund was best known for his work in harmonic analysis, a method for analyzing periodic functions. Among his main interests in that field was describing vibrating objects in mathematical terms, a crucial matter for spacecraft design, crystallography and laser holography.
        In 1986, Dr. Zygmund was awarded the National Medal of Science, the country's highest scientific honor. The award cited his contributions to the branch of mathematics called Fourier analysis and its applications to partial differential equations. It credited him with creating the "strongest school of analytical research in the contemporary mathematical world."
        Fourier analysis, named after the French mathematician Jean-Baptiste-Joseph Fourier (1768-1830), treats the representation of mathematical functions as sums of infinite series of trigonometric functions like sines and cosines.
        Dr. Zygmund, who was born in Warsaw, studied at the University of Warsaw, earning his doctorate in mathematics at the age of 23. He taught there and at Warsaw Polytechnic Institute before accepting a professorship at the University of Wilno (the Polish name for Vilnius) when Vilnius, now the capital of Lithuania, was part of Poland.
        Dr. Zygmund served in the Polish Army in 1939 and escaped with his family to the United States when Poland was overrun by the Germans. He taught at Mount Holyoke College and the University of Pennsylvania before joining the University of Chicago faculty in 1964. He gained emeritus status in 1981.
        He was the author of "Trigonometric Series," a textbook that first appeared in 1935 and remains in use worldwide. A new edition was published by Cambridge University Press in 1988 as part of its Cambridge Mathematical Library. He was also represented in "Contributions to Fourier Analysis," published that year by Princeton University Press, and altogether wrote six books and more than 180 papers.
        Dr. Zygmund is survived by four grandsons, all residents of England. A memorial service will be held at the University of Chicago in the fall.
      