
        Lawrence William Towner, a historian and former president of the Newberry Library in Chicago, died Friday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 70 years old.
        Dr. Towner, who lived in Chicago, died of emphysema, his family said.
        Dr. Towner headed the Newberry, a private research library in the humanities that was founded in 1887, during an era of growth and modernization.
        In his 24-year tenure, the Newberry expanded its collection, fostered wider use of the library, increased its revenues, created a laboratory for preserving books and training conservators for other libraries, renovated its building and constructed a 10-story climate-controlled building to house books. Mozart, Chopin, Anderson
        When he retired in 1986, the collection was valued at $300 million and included 1.4 million books, 5 million manuscripts and 60,000 maps, photographs and paintings. The items included signed scores by Mozart and Chopin, papal proceedings, a first edition of "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland," Sherwood Anderson manuscripts, railroad archives, Indian artifacts and 10th-century sermons.
        Dr. Towner was on the panel formed by Jacqueline Kennedy to select 1,780 books for the White House Library. He was also a past chairman of the Illinois Humanities Council and helped start the National Endowment for the Humanities matching-grant program for libraries.
        A specialist in American colonial history, he wrote and edited numerous articles and books and was instrumental in the printing of an atlas of the nation during the Revolution. He served on the council of the Institute of Early American History and on advisory boards for the official papers of George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, James Madison and Thomas Jefferson.
        He was a past president of the Modern Poetry Association and was on the advisory committee of "Who's Who in America" and "Who's Who in the World."
        Dr. Towner was born in St. Paul. He graduated from Cornell College in Mount Vernon, Iowa. In World War II, he served in the United States Army Air Corps. After the war, he earned master's and doctoral degrees in history at Northwestern University and taught at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the College of William and Mary.
        Surviving are his wife of 49 years, the former Rachel Bauman; two sons, Peter of Oakland, Calif., and Michael of Point Mugu, Calif.; three daughters, Wendy Yanikoski of La Porte, Ind., Kristin Moses of Oak Park, Ill., and Elizabeth Jackson of Chicago; a brother, Harold, of Dunnellon, Fla., and nine grandchildren.
      