
        Martin B. McKneally, a former New York state and national commander of the American Legion who served one term as a Republican Congressman and later pleaded guilty to income-tax evasion, died on Sunday at the Castle Point Veteran's Administration Hospital near Beacon, N.Y. He was 77 years old and lived in Newburgh, N.Y.
        He died of pancreatic cancer, said one of his sisters, Catherine Curry of Cornwall, N.Y.
        As national Legion commander in 1959, Mr. McKneally declared that the American Legion was cutting its public ties with its 40 & 8 Society because of the society's rule limiting membership to white people. He said the group would be forbidden to use the American Legion name or emblem.
        As commander he also criticized some movie producers for employing writers who had been blacklisted as subversive or politically radical, and he declared that the Legion would, as he put it, continue to fight for the extermination of un-Americanism in movies until it was "nonexistent."
        Mr. McKneally was born in Newburgh, the son of a plumbing contractor. He went to schools in Newburgh and was graduated from Holy Cross College in 1936 and from Fordham University Law School in 1940. He was in the Army in World War II, rising to the rank of major and serving as a staff officer in the Pacific.
        He then practiced law in New York and Newburgh. He was state Legion commander in 1956 and 1957 and national commander in 1959 and 1960. He was elected to Congress in 1968, but he lost in a bid for re-election in 1970 after charges that he had failed to file some income-tax returns.
        In December 1971 Judge James T. Foley of Federal District Court in Albany placed him on probation for a year and fined him $5,000 after he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge that he had filed no income tax on income of $24,000 for 1965. The judge said his was a "crime of omission rather than commission."
        In addition to Mrs. Curry, Mr. McKneally is survived by two other sisters, Dorothy Leavy of Wilmington, Del., and Elizabeth Auffredou of Cornwall.
      