
        Robert Collins Christopher, an author and journalist who administered the day-to-day operations of the Pulitzer Prize Board for the last 11 years, died on Sunday at Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in New London, Conn. He was 68 years old and lived in Old Lyme, Conn.
        Mr. Christopher died of emphysema, his family said.
        Mr. Christopher was a former senior editor at both Time and Newsweek magazines and the author of books and articles on Japan.
        A high point of his tenure as secretary of the Pulitzer Prize Board at Columbia University came last year when he organized the celebration of the Pulitzers' 75th anniversary. More than 300 past winners in journalism, letters and music attended the party.
        "I can't imagine that there were ever so many winners in one place before," he said. Administered Pulitzer Entries
        As an adjunct professor at the Graduate School of Journalism, Mr. Christopher handled all entries that the board received each year.
        He also administered the appointment of jurors for the board, which submits its selections to the president of Columbia University.
        Mr. Christopher, a native of Thomaston, Conn., graduated Phi Beta Kappa with the war-delayed Yale class of 1945 and served as an Army intelligence officer in both World War II and the Korean War.
        He joined the staff at Time in 1950 and became the editor responsible for its U.S. and world business sections. In 1964, he moved to Newsweek, where he worked as foreign editor, executive editor and editor of the international editions.
        He was the author of "The Japanese Mind: The Goliath Explained" (Linden/Simon & Schuster, 1983), "Second to None: American Companies in Japan" (Crown, 1986) and "Crashing the Gates: The De-WASPing of the American Elite" (Simon & Schuster, 1989).
        Mr. Christopher is survived by his second wife, the former Rita Goldstein; four sons, Nicholas, of Queens, Thomas, of Middletown, Conn., Alistair and Gordon, both of Old Lyme; two daughters, Ulrica of Brookfield, Vt., and Valerie Moerler of Queens; a sister, Mildred Bradshaw of Baldwinsville, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      