
        Teodoro Moscoso, a former United States Ambassador to Venezuela and a leader of the Alliance for Progress in the 1960's, died Monday at his apartment in San Juan, P.R. He was 81 years old.
        He died of cancer of the liver, said Scott F. Runkle, a Washington-based consultant to the Government of Puerto Rico, who was a longtime friend. Mr. Moscoso played a key role in the economic development of the island.
        He was named Ambassador to Venezuela by President John F. Kennedy in 1961.
        In 1962 Mr. Kennedy named him United States Coordinator of the Alliance for Progress, a vast economic development program for Latin America, which he held until 1964. A Historic Role
        "Moscoso was unexcelled in communicating the political and social idealism of the Alliance -- to the Latin Americans, who had great faith in him, to Congress, where he was well respected, and to his own staff," the Kennedy aide and historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. wrote in his 1965 book "A Thousand Days: John F. Kennedy in the White House"
        But Mr. Schlesinger observed that although Mr. Moscoso committed a "billion dollars each year in program and project loans," the program was impeded by "the stipulations and rigidities" in United States aid legislation, "and the Latins themselves were often slow to produce good projects and effective development programs."
        In the 1940's Mr. Moscoso began playing a historic role, which went on for years, in the development of Puerto Rico. Alfredo Salazar, the administrator of the Puerto Rico Economic Development Administration, said, in a statement issued in San Juan yesterday: "Moscoso's vision and dedication have been the guiding force behind our transformation. Thanks to him in just two generations Puerto Rico has become a world-class site for manufacturing and the Caribbean's hub for finance, transportation and industry."
        Average per capita income in Puerto Rico was $120 per year in 1940 and is today more than $6,500 -- the highest in Latin America. There are about 2,000 industrial plants on the island. Headed Operation Bootstrap
        Mr. Moscoso helped to set up the Puerto Rico Industrial Development Company in 1942. From then until 1950 he was president and general manager of the company, which strove to get investors from the mainland and from foreign countries to set up manufacturing plants there.
        From 1950 to 1960 he was the first administrator of the Economic Development Administration, known in Spanish as Fomento. For years he oversaw Operation Bootstrap, an economic plan that reflected his conviction that tax incentives would reinforce efforts to bring outside private investment to the island. He encouraged, among other projects, the building of the Caribe Hilton Hotel and similar enterprises that proved to be cornerstones of the island's tourism industry.
        After his service in the Kennedy Administration, he returned to Puerto Rico.
        Mr. Moscoso was born in Barcelona, the son of Teodoro Moscoso and the former Alejandrina Mora. The family moved from Spain to Puerto Rico when he was a child. He studied at the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science in 1928 and earned a B.S. degree from the University of Michigan in 1932. He worked in business in Puerto Rico before entering government there.
        His survivors include his wife, the former Gloria Sanchez Vilella, to whom he was married in 1937; a daughter, Margarita Moscoso of San Juan; a son, Jose Teodoro Moscoso, of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      