
        Frederick E. Exley, whose trilogy of books about his troubled life won critical praise, died yesterday at the Edward John Noble Hospital in Alexandria Bay, N.Y. He was 63 years old and lived in Alexandria Bay, in the Thousand Islands region.
        He died after two strokes, his family said.
        Mr. Exley called his books fictional memoirs. They were largely factual autobiographies of his struggles with self-doubt, personal failures, two broken marriages, bouts of alcoholism and debauchery and several stays in a mental hospital. Accounts of an Admirer
        His first book, "A Fan's Notes" (Harper, 1968), idolized the football star Frank Gifford, while Mr. Exley was consigning his own role in life to that of a mere fan. His next book, "Pages From a Cold Island" (Random House, 1975), was an admiring tribute to his upstate neighbor, the writer and critic Edmund Wilson. The concluding volume was "Last Notes from Home" (Random House, 1988).
        "What accounts for his success is his failure," wrote Christopher Lehmann-Haupt in The New York Times. He called "A Fan's Notes" "a singularly moving, entertaining, funny book."
        Mr. Exley won several awards and fellowships from the Rockefeller and Guggenheim Foundations. He also taught at the Iowa Writers Workshop. An Athlete Turned Writer
        He was born in Watertown, N.Y. In high school he was an all-state basketball player, although he described himself as inferior to his father, also a noted high school athlete.
        In 1953, he graduated from the University of Southern California, where Mr. Gifford's football career began. They did not meet until years later when Mr. Gifford read "A Fan's Notes" and called Mr. Exley.
        While aspiring to a writing career, Mr. Exley worked in public relations for the New York Central Railroad and Rock Island Railroad Lines, edited articles for The Palm Beach Post-Times in Florida and taught English at public schools in upstate New York.
        He was married and divorced twice, to the former Nancy Glenn and the former Francine Ritz.
        He is survived by two daughters, Alexandra Mowers of Syracuse, and Pamela Anderson of Darien, Conn.; two sisters, Frances Brown of Clayton, N.Y., and Constance O'Neill of Watertown, and three grandchildren.
      