
        Glenn White, a principal dancer and a teacher with the Joffrey Ballet, died last Wednesday at the Lake Taylor Hospital in Norfolk, Va. He was 42 years old.
        He died of AIDS, said his mother, Lillian White of Norfolk.
        Mr. White danced with the Joffrey from 1968 to 1980. He also taught at the Joffrey's American Ballet Center. At his death he was special projects assistant to Gerald Arpino, the director of the company, helping to revive ballets and teaching works to the Joffrey II Dancers.
        Mr. White was known as a superb partner and a dancer who would tackle any assignment, sailing through the fast-paced, daredevil pyrotechnics of Mr. Arpino's choreography with a gleaming grin. "He was one of my closest inspirations," Mr. Arpino said in a statement. "I created leading roles in 'Kettantanz,' 'Trinity' and 'L'Air d'Esprit' for him."
        Although he taught reluctantly at first at the Joffrey school, Mr. White was an immensely popular teacher with a gift for imaginative, flowing combinations of steps for his students.
        Mr. White began his ballet training in Norfolk, his home town, at the Tidewater Ballet Association, where he returned to teach and perform during his years with the Joffrey. In 1967 Robert Joffrey saw him dance and invited him to join his company, but Mr. White's mother refused to let him move to New York until he finished high school.
        Mr. White said he left the troupe because he was feeling "dried up." He continued to perform and teach, acting on television in "As the World Turns" and "Hart to Hart." He returned to the Joffrey in 1985 as assistant to the associate director. In 1988, he returned to direct the Tidewater Ballet Association (now Virginia Ballet Theater) at the invitation of Gene Hammett, his longtime mentor, who died the following year. He also choreographed for the company.
        In addition to his mother, he is survived by two sisters, Joan White Uhlar and Marguerite White Jones, both of Virginia Beach, Va.
      