
        Edward F. Carpenter, who as founding headmaster of Harlem Preparatory School helped transform dropouts into Ivy Leaguers, died on Monday at Englewood Hospital in Engelwood, N.J.  He was 71 years old and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
        He died of heart failure, his family said.
        Harlem Prep was begun in 1967 as a private school dedicated to drawing alienated youngsters back to class and readying them for college. The program was conceived by the Rev. Eugene S. Callender, a Harlem minister and leader of the Urban League, and was sponsored by corporate and foundation grants.
        The school, which opened in an armory and moved to a renovated supermarket, eventually had a peak enrollment of 1,100. Hundreds of its graduates went on to college, including Harvard and other top universities. The school emphasized basic reading, writing and arithmetic, along with black culture. Mr. Carpenter said the key to the school's success was teachers with an "unshakable faith that the students can make it." Successful Transition
        Dwindling grants forced Harlem Prep to yield its independence in 1974, when it was taken over by the New York City school system. Although Mr. Carpenter was skeptical that the school would continue true to its mission, he stayed on as its director and eventually called the transition a success.
        He went on to other positions, including assistant principal of the Charles E. Hughes and Norman Thomas High Schools and spent a year teaching education at the City College of New York. He retired in 1986.
        Mr. Carpenter, who was born in Manhattan, earned a bachelor's degree from Long Island University, a master's from Columbia and a doctorate from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. Serving as a second lieutenant in the Army in the Pacific during World War II, he won several medals, including a Purple Heart. Community Services
        Prior to Harlem Prep, he worked as a guidance counselor in the city schools and was director of community services for the Children and Parents Center at Queens College, a program for preschoolers from impoverished neighborhoods.
        In Teaneck, he served on the ethics advisory board for the town government and was chairman of the local spiritual assembly of the Bahai faith.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Lela McCants; a son, Edward F. Jr., of Emerson, N.J.; a daughter, Karen M. Vickers of Monmouth Junction, N.J.; two stepsons, Anthony Kerlew of of Oceanside, Calif., and Marty Kerlew of the Bronx; a sister, Naomi, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren and two stepgrandchildren.
      