
        Peter Allen, the popular concert entertainer and Grammy- and Academy Award-winning songwriter, died yesterday at a hospital in San Diego. He was 48 years old, and lived in Manhattan and had homes near San Diego and in Australia.
        He died of an AIDS-related illness, said his personal assistant, Bruce Cudd.
        Mr. Allen began in show business as a child, singing in school shows and neighborhood pubs in his native Tenterfield, Australia, with the encouragement of his mother. Discovered by Judy Garland
        After the death of his alcoholic, abusive father, he dropped out of school and helped to support the family as a teen-age entertainer in Australia and the Orient. He added songwriting, dancing and piano-playing to his skills.
        Judy Garland discovered him in 1964 when he was performing in a trio at the Hong Kong Hilton. She signed the act to open for her and also introduced him to her daughter Liza Minnelli. He came to New York the next year, and he and Ms. Minnelli were married.
        Mr. Allen's career flourished. He was tall, lanky, agile and known for his engaging smile, and he liked to exhibit his many talents. In a typical concert, he danced a bit, bantered, then leaped atop a grand piano and finally sat down to play and sing songs he had written.
        Ebullient and often flamboyant, he once rode onstage on a camel, another time on an elephant. His flashy costumes included a red sequined suit and a silver lame shirt. Critics often noted a sexual ambiguity in his performances.
        Over the years, he recorded 11 albums and performed live in cabarets, on Broadway and in concerts. He once gave a special performance for Queen Elizabeth II, and Mayor Edward I. Koch said Mr. Allen was his favorite entertainer.
        He drew audiences in the thousands to his shows at Radio City Music Hall, Carnegie Hall, Avery Fisher Hall and Central Park. His last concert appearance was in January, in Sydney, Australia. With Awards and Other Honors
        His Oscar came for writing the theme music to the 1981 film "Arthur." The film starred Dudley Moore and Ms. Minnelli. By then, Mr. Allen and Ms. Minnelli were divorced.
        This song, which included a line about being "caught between the moon and New York City," became a No. 1 hit. He also wrote for other films, including "All That Jazz."
        Among his compositions performed and recorded by other stars were "I Honestly Love You," which was sung by Olivia Newton-John and which won three Grammy Awards in 1974; "I'd Rather Leave While I'm in Love," sung by Rita Coolidge; "Don't Cry Out Loud," sung by Melissa Manchester, and "You and Me (We Wanted It All)," by Frank Sinatra.
        He also wrote the score and lyrics and starred in the 1988 Broadway musical "Legs Diamond," which closed after several weeks and lost $3 million.  He had a popular run on Broadway in 1979 with "Up in One," his one-man show. An 'Official Personality'
        His early New York performances in the early 1970's were in small cabarets, including Reno Sweeney, the Continental Baths and the Bitter End, coinciding with his first extensive songwriting.
        His popularity grew so large that he sold out even the 6,000-seat Radio City Music Hall. He appeared there so often that Radio City named him its official personality, and he was the first nonmember of the Rockettes, whom he had idolized as a youngster, who was allowed to join the kick line.
        His signature songs, which he wrote, were "I Go to Rio" and "Quiet Please, There's a Lady Onstage."
        Survivors include his mother, Marion, and a sister, Lynne Smith, both of Sydney.
      