
        The Rev. Daniel J. O'Hanlon, a Jesuit priest who was a nationally known theologian and ecumenical leader, died on Wednesday at Highland Hospital in Oakland, Calif. He was 73 years old and lived in Berkeley, Calif.
        His death resulted from multiple injuries suffered Tuesday night when he was hit by a car while crossing a street in Berkeley, said a friend and colleague, the Rev. John Huesman.
        Father O'Hanlon taught for 30 years at the Jesuit School of Theology in Berkeley and a predecessor institution. He retired in 1989 as a professor of fundamental and systematic theology.
        "Father O'Hanlon was one of the most outstanding exponents of the ecumenical concern in current Roman Catholic theology," said the Rev. Robert McAfee Brown, a Presbyterian theologian who has long been active in the ecumenical movement. "He was a challenging advocate of peace and unity throughout the religious communities of the world."
        Over the years, Father O'Hanlon was influential through his teaching, writings and contacts with Protestants and adherents of Hinduism and other Asian religions. His students included many non-Catholic graduate students of theology from other institutions in the Berkeley area.
        He was born in Wallsend-on-Tyne, England, the son of Daniel and Margaret O'Hanlon. When he was a child the family moved to Fullerton, Calif., where his father went into insurance and real estate.
        He entered the Jesuit order in 1939 and earned a doctorate in theology from the Gregorian University in Rome in 1958.
        His many writings included his doctoral dissertation, about the impact of a 19th-century German philosopher on a 20th-Century Protestant theologian, which was published as a book, "The Influence of Schelling on the Thought of Paul Tillich," by the Gregorian University press in 1958. He was a coeditor of "Christianity Divided: Protestant and Roman Catholic Theological Issues" (Sheed & Ward, 1961).
        He is survived by two brothers, Thomas and Lawrence; two sisters who are nuns, Sister Eileen O'Hanlon and Sister Kathleen O'Hanlon, and two other sisters, Marjorie O'Hanlon and Kathleen Truxaw.
      