
        J. Edward Crabiel, a New Jersey Democrat who was the state's Secretary of State and the minority leader of the State Senate, died yesterday at St. Peter's Medical Center in New Brunswick, where he was admitted two weeks earlier. He was 75 years old and a lifelong resident of Milltown.
        He had been suffering for a few weeks from a muscle disease, and his death was caused by acute respiratory failure, said his brother, David B. Crabiel.
        J. Edward Crabiel, who had worked as a civil engineer, was appointed Secretary of State in 1974 and held that office until 1977, under Gov. Brendan T. Byrne.
        Mr. Crabiel, a big man who was known as Steady Eddie, was first elected to the State Senate in 1965. He went on to become minority leader in 1968 and resigned from the Senate in 1973. Before entering the Senate he had served as an Assemblyman for a decade. From 1947 to 1951 he was mayor of Milltown. Faced Conspiracy Charge
        While he was Secretary of State, Mr. Crabiel was indicted by a grand jury on charges of conspiring with others for a protracted period to control highway construction contracts in Northern New Jersey. He maintained that he was innocent, and the charges were eventually thrown out of court because the statute of limitations had run out before the trial began.
        Although the charges covered a period long before Mr. Crabiel entered Mr. Byrne's cabinet, they became embarrassing to the Governor. Eventually, Mr. Byrne suggested that Mr. Crabiel resign. But Mr. Crabiel told the Governor in effect to keep his suggestions to himself. After the charges were thrown out, the two men resumed their close political association.
        Mr. Crabiel was born in Milltown, the son of Helen Glock Crabiel and Joseph M. Crabiel, a Democratic political figure who was a borough councilman and a member of of the Milltown board of education over the years. He attended Milltown public schools, graduated from New Brunswick High School and went on to earn a B.S. degree in civil engineering from Rutgers University in 1936.
        He is survived his wife of 52 years, the former Doris Young; a daughter, Lynda Cummings of Delray Beach, Fla.; his brother, of Milltown, and three grandchildren.
      