
        The third Earl of Iveagh, who served as chairman of Guinness P.L.C. during a period of change and turmoil for the British brewing and spirits giant, died here on Thursday. He was 55 years old.
        Company officials said he had died of a throat ailment but declined to provide further details.
        Lord Iveagh was a descendant of the Arthur Guinness, the brewer who founded the company in Dublin in 1759. Lord Iveagh served as chairman from 1962 until 1986 and as president from 1986 until last month, when he left the company.
        By the late 1970's, the company, whose name is still most widely associated with the stout that bears its name, was stagnating and appeared to be in danger of becoming a takeover target. A program undertaken by Lord Iveagh to diversify out of alcoholic beverages did not do much to improve the company's performance. Consumption Increased
        To breathe new life into Guinness, Lord Iveagh recruited Ernest W. Saunders from Nestle, the Swiss food giant, to be chief executive in 1981. Mr. Saunders began the marketing effort that increased consumption of Guinness stout, whose sales are among the fastest growing of major beers in the world.
        Mr. Saunders also began to pursue the acquisition strategy that helped to transform Guinness into a world powerhouse in spirits, especially Scotch and gin. Under Mr. Saunders, Guinness bought Arthur Bell & Son, a Scotch producer, for $574 million in 1985 and the Distillers Company, a leading British spirits company, for $4 billion in 1986.
        It later emerged that Mr. Saunders had taken part in an illegal scheme to prop up Guinness's share price during the takeover fight for Distillers to give Guinness's stock-and-cash offer a better chance of prevailing.
        When the scandal broke, Lord Iveagh at first backed Mr. Saunders but then changed his mind. Guinness's board, including Lord Iveagh, voted to dismiss him in January 1987. Mr. Saunders later went to jail.
        Under Anthony J. Tenant, who succeeded Mr. Saunders as chief executive and is now chairman, Guinness has become one of the world's most successful and profitable drinks companies. But the scandal tarnished the Guinness name. Over the centuries, the family had earned a reputation as philanthropists and enlightened employers.
        The Saunders era also brought about the end of the Guinness family's dominance over the company. As a result of the issuing of new shares by the company to pay for acquisitions, the family's stake in Guinness fell from about 25 percent in the late 1970's to less than 2 percent today. Lord Iveagh's decision not to seek re-election to the company's board in May left it without a Guinness director for the first time.
        Arthur Francis Benjamin Guinness, who was known as Ben to friends, was born on May 20, 1937, to Viscount Elveden and the former Lady Elizabeth Hare. His father died in action in World War II in 1945, and he became Viscount Elveden and heir to his grandfather, the second Earl of Iveagh.
        He was educated at Eton, at Trinity College, Cambridge, and the University of Grenoble.
        A shy man and bibliophile who once dreamed of becoming a farmer, he found himself drawn into the family business instead. He was elected to the board of the company in 1958, became assistant managing director in charge of the Park Royal brewery in London in 1959 and succeeded his grandfather as chairman three years later. Married in 1963
        He married Miranda Daphne Jane Smiley in 1963 and became the third Earl of Iveagh when his grandfather died in 1967.
        Lord Iveagh, who had a home in London and estates in Suffolk, England, and Castleknock in County Dublin in Ireland, loved horses and racing. He also served four years as an appointed member of the Irish Senate in the 1970's.
        Lord Iveagh's marriage ended in divorce in 1984. A newspaper obituary today in The Daily Mail by his cousin Jonathan Guinness, said the divorce was amicable and Lord Iveagh had been cared for in his former wife's home in London during the illness that caused his death.
        He is survived by their two sons and two daughters. The earldom now goes to his eldest son, Arthur Edward Guinness.
      