
        Dr. William H. Tooley, a leading pediatrician and neonatologist who developed a procedure that has saved the lives of more than 100,000 infants, died on Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 66 years old.
        He died after a long illness, a spokesman for the family said.
        Dr. Tooley, who helped develop intensive care for babies, was a specialist in the cardiovascular and pulmonary problems of the fetus and the newborn. Treatment for Infants
        In the 1960's, he and Dr. George Gregory led a team at the University of California's San Francisco campus that made a breakthrough in the treatment of precariously premature babies. The team developed a technique called continuous positive airway pressure, which used pressurized air to help reinflate infants' lungs each time they exhaled. Without such assistance, premature babies trying to inhale were often too weak to expand the lungs, leaving them collapsed.
        The technique eventually became standard care around the world and sharply increased survival rates of premature babies. Over the years it has saved more than 100,000 lives, said Dr. Jerold Lucey, editor of the journal Pediatrics.
        Dr. Tooley was born in Berkeley, Calif., was educated at Carroll College in Helena, Mont., and earned his medical degree at the University of California at San Francisco in 1949.
        From 1951 to 1954, he served as a senior medical officer for the Navy's anti-submarine forces in the Pacific Fleet.
        For 30 years he taught and supervised clinical care for the San Francisco campus's department of pediatrics and its Cardiovascular Research Institute.
        In 1964 he created and directed the university's intensive-care nursery, one of the first in the world. With the head nurse, Teresa M. Poirier, he helped develop methods for the specialized care of sick infants by neonatal nurses, practices that became widely followed elsewhere. The nursery is now named in his honor.
        He retired last year.
        Dr. Tooley wrote more than 100 published articles and trained many leading researchers and teachers in his field. Among the honors he won were the Mead Johnson Award for Research, from the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the Virginia Apgar Award, a coveted prize in neonatology.
        His medical colleague and companion of many years was Mureen A. Schlueter. He is survived by a brother, John H. Tooley of Sunnyvale, Calif.
      