
        Brother Gregory W. Nugent, the former president of Manhattan College and a top official at the Catholic University of America, died on Saturday at his home on the university campus in Washington. He was 80 years old.
        The apparent cause of death was a heart attack, a university spokeswoman said.
        Brother Nugent started his 58-year career as an educator as a language instructor and assistant to the principal at the De LaSalle Institute in New York City from 1934 to 1946.
        Moving to Manhattan College in 1946, he progressed from being a German professor to becoming head of the department, assistant dean of liberal arts, dean of the School of Arts and Sciences, academic vice president and, for 13 years, president.
        In 1975 he joined Catholic University.  He served as a special assistant to every president since then: Dr. Clarence C. Walton, Dr. Edmund Pellegrino and the Rev. William J. Byron. He was also secretary to the board of trustees and guided three presidential search committees, including the recent one leading to the designation of Brother Patrick Ellis to take office on Aug. 1.
        Brother Nugent, a member of the Christian Brothers order, held seven honorary degrees. Among his other honors were the President's Medal from Catholic University and the Theodore M. Hesburgh Award from the Association of Catholic Colleges and Universities.
        He was a past president of the College and University Department of the National Catholic Education Association, a committee chairman of the College Entrance Examination Board and board chairman of La Salle University in Philadelphia. He also served in the Middle States Association, city and state higher education councils in New York, two New York State Regents' panels and the Religious Education Association.
        Brother Nugent was born in Troy, N.Y. He studied at LaSalle Institute in Troy, Manhattan College and the Institute of the Brothers of the Christian Schools.
        He graduated from Catholic University in 1934 and earned a master's degree in German at New York University in 1939 and a doctorate there in 1945.
        His survivors include a sister, Marie Nugent of Grafton, N.Y.
      