
        F. S. C. Northrop, a protean scholar at Yale University who used the scientific method as his philosopher's stone and influenced politics, culture and the cold war, died yesterday at a nursing home in Exeter, N.H., where he had lived for many years. He was 98 years old.
        Professor Northrop died in his sleep, said his son Stuart J. Northrop.
        An expert in the fields of philosophy, science, anthropology and law, Professor Northrop studied the major scientific advancements of the early 20th century, especially Einstein's theory of relativity, and related them to the cultural conflicts emerging from the two world wars.
        "Do the advent of the atomic bomb and the possibility of biological warfare make the physicist and biologist, rather than the scientist and humanist, the wisest guiders of policy?" he asked in his book, "Ideological Differences and World Order" (Elliot's Books, Northford, Conn., 1949). "Have psychology, anthropology and history demonstrated that irrational emotions, environmental stimuli, biological heredity, or inevitable historical trends determine what will happen? Or do ideas really matter?"
        He argued at the outbreak of the cold war that it was not ideological, political or economic issues but rather science that offered the basis for improving relations between the United States and the Soviet Union. In the early years after the United Nations was formed, he grew skeptical that brokering for peace on a political basis could prevent a third world war.
        At a conference to plan for an Emergency World People's Congress in 1947, he said it appeared "that the United Nations has failed quicker than the League," referring to the doomed League of Nations begun after World War I. A Native of Wisconsin
        Filmer Stuart Cuckow Northrop, who used only the initials of his first three names, was born in Janesville, Wis., in 1893, a descendant of Joseph Northrop, who arrived in New Haven in 1638. He graduated from Beloit College in 1915 and began his graduate work at Yale in 1917. He served in the Army tank corps during World War I, then worked in China for two years before returning to Yale to complete his master's degree.
        He received his doctorate from Harvard in 1924 and later studied in Germany and England. He became an instructor in philosophy at Yale in 1923 and remained on the faculty for nearly four decades. He was chairman of the Department of Philosophy from 1938 to 1940 and was the first master of Silliman College, one of 12 residential colleges at Yale, from 1940 to 1947.
        He had the rare distinction of being appointed to a Sterling endowed professorship, the highest scholarly honor at Yale, in both philosophy and law. He was one of the few nonlawyers to teach at Yale's law school. Prolific Author and Scholar
        In 1927, Professor Northrop spent a year in Germany and Switzerland, where he began in earnest his 20-year study of Einstein's theory of relativity and the nature of the scientific method.
        He was the author or editor of 12 books, the most influential of which was "The Meeting of East and West," a critique of the world's principal philosophical traditions in their cultural settings, published in 1946. In a front-page review in The New York Times Book Review, Howard Mumford Jones called the book "great, difficult and important," and said it was the "most important intellectual event in the United States thus far in 1946."
        Professor Northrop theorized that the East, embracing Confucius and Lao-tze, used "concept by intuition," while the West, in the tradition of Aristotle and Plato, valued most highly "concepts by postulation." This placed the two cultures in conflict with each other, the solution to which, he theorized, rested on a synthesis of values.
        "The Meeting of East and West"has been reprinted 10 times, most recently in 1979 by Ox Bow Press of Woodbridge, Conn., and translated into three languages.
        Through the course of his studies, Professor Northrop became an expert on the writings and theories of Einstein and the philosopher Alfred North Whitehead. He once described both as "men of genius who are as sensitive in spirit as they are brilliant in mind."
        Professor Northrop served on several international organizations involved in resolving international ideological conflict. He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a member of the American Academy of Political and Social Science.
        He is survived by his sons Stuart, of New London, N.H., and Johnston F., of Lakeville, Conn.
      