
        Bruce D. Henderson, a pioneering writer and hugely successful salesman in strategy consulting for major corporations, died Monday. He was 77 years old.
        He died 10 days after suffering a stroke at his home in Nashville, said a spokesman for the Boston Consulting Group, which he founded.
        The company, and the popularity of his ideas for analyzing business opportunities took wing during the 1970's as his creation of notions like the "experience curve" -- the more a company manufactures a given product, the more efficient it becomes and the lower its costs -- gave executives new tools for seeking fast-growth markets and the right products to push sales up.
        Many of the phrasings he used, like "stars" and "cash cows," to describe businesses with different prospects became fixtures in the hallways and the board rooms of big business. And many of his seemingly simple concepts, once scorned by academics, are now fixtures in business school curriculums. One-Man Operation
        "There was no doubt that he was a giant, and an innovator in the consulting world," said James H. Kennedy, publisher of Consultants News, a newsletter in the industry.
        Mr. Henderson started the Boston Consulting Group -- or B.C.G., as it is known -- as a one-man operation in 1963 from a room at the Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company, where he advised clients of the bank. He made B.C.G. an independent concern in 1974 and served as its chairman and chief executive until he retired in 1985. It now has 1,300 employees.
        In addition to popularizing simple analytical tools for business strategy, Mr. Henderson traumatized his rivals in the consulting fraternity by attracting top graduates of prestigious business schools like Harvard and Stanford, in part by offering them large salaries. The broader effect was to popularize management consulting as a profession for bright business school graduates.
        "He attracted young people to the business, and he saw consulting as a powerful way to compress their learning process between formal education and real accomplishment," said John S. Clarkeson, chief executive of B.C.G. B.C.G. Influence
        Several B.C.G. alumni are now senior executives at major corporations, including Michael Carpenter, chairman and chief executive of Kidder, Peabody & Company; George A. David, president of United Technologies, and Alan G. Spoon, chief operating officer of The Washington Post Company.
        Mr. Henderson was born on a farm at Nashville on April 30, 1915. He graduated with an engineering degree from Vanderbilt in 1937, studied at the Harvard Business School and then worked 18 years at The Westinghouse Company, where he became a vice president at the age of 37. In 1953, President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed him to a team of five analysts who evaluated foreign aid programs in Germany under the Marshall Plan.
        He later worked as a consultant with the Arthur D. Little consulting firm before founding B.C.G., where he wrote widely on business strategy in monthly monographs called Perspectives. He became a management professor at Vanderbilt after leaving B.C.G. in 1985.
        He is survived by his wife, Bess; two daughters, Asta Werme of Murphreesboro, Tenn., and Ceacy Griffin of Colrain, Mass.; two sons, Bruce Alexander Henderson of Greenwich, Conn., and Bruce Balfour Henderson of San Diego; a sister, Ceacy Hailey of Nashville; two brothers, Glenn Dixon Henderson of Mandeville, La., and J. B. Henderson of Ashland City, Tenn., and seven grandchildren.
      