
        David Wojnarowicz, one of the most individual artists of the 1980's, whose impassioned and outspoken work about AIDS thrust him into the center of the recent debates involving the National Endowment for the Arts, died on Wednesday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 37 years old.
        He died of AIDS, said his companion, Tom Rauffenbart.
        Mr. Wojnarowicz (pronounced voy-nah-ROH-vitch) worked in many media, often mixing them together, to produce an art that was distinguished by its rage and its spirit of personal longing. His paintings, photographs, installations, performances and writings railed against the status quo as they also mourned death. He dealt not only with AIDS but with many other issues, both public and private. His art could be simplistic and preachy. Yet it could also be unnerving, wry and very moving.
        Like the artist himself, his art never pulled punches. Mr. Wojnarowicz gained the national spotlight in 1989, when the National Endowment for the Arts decided to rescind money for a catalogue to an exhibition about AIDS because of an essay in which he attacked various public figures. The endowment reversed itself. It also supported a 10-year retrospective of his work that was organized at the University Galleries of Illinois State University in Normal, Ill., which included a catalogue that reproduced the essay.
        Mr. Wojnarowicz was in the news again after the American Family Association of Tupelo, Miss., an antipornography lobbying group, and its leader, the Rev. Donald E. Wildmon, issued a pamphlet criticizing the endowment. The pamphlet included photographs cropped from works by Mr. Wojnarowicz that included sexual images. The artist sued the organization for misrepresenting him and damaging his reputation. In 1990, a Federal District Court judge in New York ruled in his favor and ordered that the organization publish and distribute a correction. Mr. Wojnarowicz was the only artist to challenge Mr. Wildmon in court. The East Village Scene
        An abused child and a teen-age street hustler, Mr. Wojnarowicz made much of his personal history in the social margins in his art and writings. He was born in Red Bank, N.J., ran away from home, lived on the streets, and eventually graduated from the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan. One of many artists of his generation to achieve recognition in the boom-and-bust East Village art scene of the early 80's, Mr. Wojnarowicz was first known for stenciling images of burning houses and falling figures onto the sides of buildings. He typified the approach of artists from the East Village who felt free to explore various media, to mix high and low art.
        In his writings, which moved from the shrill to the elegiac, he often recounted the goings-on of those on the sexual and economic periphery. In 1990 he published "Close to the Knives" (Random House). Another book, "Memories That Smell Like Gasoline" is to be published by Artspace Books in San Francisco.
        In his paintings and photographs, which sometimes incorporated texts, he borrowed from popular culture and created images that could be darkly surreal. One concocted photographic image, of buffaloes toppling over a cliff, became the cover of an album by the band U2. The death from AIDS of his friend Peter Hujar, the photographer, in 1987, and the diagnosis in 1988 of his own illness, prompted Mr. Wojnarowicz to bear witness in his art to the disease and its social and psychological impact.
        He is survived by his mother, Dolores Voyna of Manhattan; two sisters, Pat Bernier of Paris and Linda Zaccaria of East Brunswick, N.J.; and two brothers, Peter, of Englishtown, N.J., and Steven, of East Windsor, N.J.
      