
        Pierre Uri, a French economist who was one of the chief architects of the European Community, died here on Tuesday. He was 80 years old.
        He died of cancer, his family said. Further details on the cause of death were not available.
        Mr. Uri, who took up economics only after the anti-Jewish laws of the Vichy Government during World War II forced him out of his university post as a philosophy professor, helped draft two crucial treaties that laid the cornerstone for European economic and political integration.
        The first, the Treaty of Paris of 1951, founded the six-nation European Coal and Steel Community, which Mr. Uri directed from 1952 to 1959. The group was conceived in part with the aim of limiting the prospects for another war in Europe by forging strong links between the French and German steel industries.
        The Treaty of Rome of 1957, the founding document of the European Community, initiated the process of creating a single economic market in Western Europe. The community, which now has expanded from its original 6 to 12 member nations, hopes to meet the goal of a market without borders by the end of this year.
        Mr. Uri worked closely on the texts of the treaties with two of the originators of the model of a unified Western Europe, Jean Monnet of France and Paul-Henri Spaak of Belgium.
        Born on Nov. 20, 1911, Mr. Uri earned degrees in philosophy and law. He wrote and traveled extensively. Among his works were a study of the European Community's agricultural policy and another on developing countries, "Helping the Third World to Feed Itself."
        In 1991, President Francois Mitterrand presented him with the Grand Croix of the National Order of Merit. At the award ceremony, Mr. Mitterrand described Mr. Uri as a "founder of Europe, one of those who most merit being considered an architect of this immense construction."
        It seems that at one time Mr. Uri may have hoped for more from Mr. Mitterrand. When the President, a Socialist, first took office in 1981, Mr. Uri hinted that he would like to be Finance Minister. But a Cabinet post was never offered, and Mr. Uri continued in his role as an informal adviser, what the French newspaper Le Monde called "a worker in the shadows."
        He is survived by his wife and four children.
      