
        The Very Rev. John Meyendorff, an internationally known Eastern Orthodox theologian and an American leader in the ecumenical movement, died on Wednesday in Montreal. He was 66 years old.
        He became ill while on vacation in Canada and died of pancreatic cancer at St. Mary's Hospital, his family said.
        Dr. Meyendorff retired on July 1 as the dean emeritus of St. Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary in Crestwood in Yonkers, N.Y., where he lived. He had served on the seminary's faculty since 1959 and became its dean in 1984.
        He was also a priest, scholar, historian, author, a leader of the Eastern Orthodox Church in America and a proponent of unity among the ethnically diverse Orthodox churches and of cooperation with other Christian denominations.
        Dr. Martin Marty, who teaches modern Christianity at the University of Chicago, ranked Dr. Meyendorff among the top three Eastern Orthodox theologians in America. His special contribution, Dr. Marty said, was in helping the often insular Orthodox churches open ties to other Christian churches. The Orthodox churches have around four million members in the United States and about 181 million members worldwide.  Two Worlds
        Dr. Jaroslav Pelikan, a history professor at Yale University, said Dr. Meyendorff bridged two generations and two cultures: "He was the last representative of the emigre Russian Orthodox community with roots in and a strong hold on Russian culture and was at the same time the most American of that generation." Dr. Meyendorff was instrumental in modernizing the church's liturgy from Old Slavonic to English, Professor Pelikan said.
        Born in Neuilly-sur-Seine, France, of emigre parents forced out of the Russian Empire during the Revolution, Dr. Meyendorff lived to see a resurgence of Orthodoxy in his ancestral homeland and other European countries.
        As the Soviet Union and communism disintegrated, he traveled repeatedly to Russia. During the momentous days of the attempted coup against Mikhail S. Gorbachev last year, he was visiting Patriarch Aleksy II of the Russian Orthodox Church in Moscow.
        For the Orthodox Church in America, which is associated with the Russian Orthodox Church, Dr. Meyendorff served variously as the chairman of external affairs, adviser to the Holy Synod and editor of its monthly newsletter.
        In broader Orthodox activities, he was a co-founder and the first general secretary of Syndesmos, an international coalition of Orthodox youth organizations. He was also a past president of the Orthodox Theological Society of America and of the American Patristics Association.
        As an ecumenical leader, he represented the Orthodox Church in America on the Central Committee of the World Council of Churches. For eight years he was the moderator of the world council's Faith and Order Commission. He received honorary degrees from the University of Notre Dame, a Roman Catholic institution, and General Theological Seminary, which is Episcopalian.
        He was a 1949 graduate of the Orthodox Theological Seminary of St. Serge in Paris and earned a doctorate from the Sorbonne in 1958.
        At St. Vladimir's, he served as a professor, director of studies and editor of its quarterly journal before becoming the dean.
        Over the years he also taught and lectured at Union Theological Seminary and Columbia, Fordham and Harvard Universities. For Harvard he was also a senior fellow and acting director of its Byzantine Research Center in Washington. He was a member of the executive committee of the United States Committee of Byzantine Studies.
        Writing in English, Russian and French, he produced several published history and religious books that were translated into eight other languages. He held fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities.
        Surviving are his wife of more than 40 years, the former Marie Mojaysky; two sons, Paul, of Crestwood, and Serge; two daughters, Elizabeth Myers, of Houston, and Anna Braun, of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a sister, Catherine Bilderling, of Paris, and six grandchildren.
      