
        Prof. Gavril A. Ilizarov, an orthopedic surgeon who developed a procedure to correct deformed bones, died yesterday in Kurgan, Russia, home of his institute in Siberia. He was 71 years old.
        He died of heart failure, according to the Hospital for Joint Diseases in New York, which reported his death. The hospital has a working arrangement with Dr. Ilizarov's Research Institute of Experimental and Clinical Orthopedic and Traumatology.
        Dr. Ilizarov most recently visited the hospital in New York last winter for consultations on various cases and to teach advanced surgical methods used at his own institute.
        He negotiated the cooperation agreement in 1987 with Dr. Victor H. Frankel, president of the Hospital for Joint Diseases, who had first used the Ilizarov procedures in 1986. The procedure is used to save limbs that might otherwise have to be amputated, the hospital said. It can also be used to lengthen short bones, straighten deformations, and alleviate dwarfism. Dr. Ilizarov developed a device, the hospital said yesterday, consisting of a series of circular steel halos with bone-fixating wires.
        Dr. Ilizarov lived in a small village in the Caucasus without formal schooling until the age of 11. Upon graduation from medical school in 1944, he was posted to Siberia, the only physician in a sprawling territory. Five years later he was promoted to staff physician at the hospital in Kurgan where he first achieved success treating war veterans suffering from infected fractures.
        The hospital in New York said Dr. Ilizarov's reputation was confined to Siberia until 1967, when he treated the Valery Brumel, a Russian high jumper who was a member of the Soviet Olympic team.
        A motorcycle accident had left Mr. Brumel with both legs broken and infected. Moscow surgeons failed to heal him in 14 operations, but Dr. Ilizarov succeeded and Mr. Brumel returned to his sport.
        By 1984, Dr. Ilizarov was directing the Kurgan institute with 24 operating rooms and a large staff of surgeons, nurses and researchers.
        Dr. Ilizarov is survived by his wife, Valentina; two daughters, Svetlana and Maria; a son, Alexander; and three grandchildren.
      