
        Alfred C. Drake, the award-winning performer who created the lead role in "Oklahoma!" and other stage hits and sang many of Broadway's most beloved songs, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of heart failure after a long fight with cancer, his family said.
        After his universally acclaimed appearance as Curly in "Oklahoma!" in 1943, Mr. Drake went on to star in the original casts of "Kiss Me, Kate" in 1948 and "Kismet" in 1953, the 1973 revival of "Gigi" and many other shows.
        His rich baritone voice introduced Broadway audiences to songs that endured among Broadway's most popular classics.
        In the 1943 production of "Oklahoma!," he sang "Oh, What a Beautiful Mornin'," "The Surrey With the Fringe on Top" and "People Will Say We're in Love." From "Kiss Me, Kate" came "So in Love." The memorable songs of "Gigi" included "I Remember It Well" and "Thank Heaven for Little Girls." 'Kismet' Role Won a Tony
        Mr. Drake's performances earned many awards. He won his first Drama Critics Award for playing Curly in "Oklahoma!" in 1943 and his second for Hajj in "Kismet" 10 years later. "Kismet" also garnered him the Tony Award and in 1990 he received a special Tony Honor of Excellence in the Theater for his body of work. In 1981 he was inducted into the Theater Hall of Fame.
        Well regarded by his peers, he served many years as president of the Players' Club, as a member of the Tony Award nominating commitee and as the artistic director of the National Lyric Arts Theater Foundation.
        He recorded several cast albums and other records as well, including "Carousel" with Roberta Peters.
        Although his musical roles brought him fame, Mr. Drake was also a serious actor and played in many dramas. His stage performances included co-starring with Richard Burton in "Hamlet" in 1963, and with Katharine Hepburn in "Much Ado About Nothing" in 1957. His last major drama was in Jose Quintero's production of "The Skin of Our Teeth" in 1975. Several TV Specials
        He appeared in several television network specials, including a revival of "Kiss Me, Kate" in 1958 for the Hallmark Hall of Fame. His other television shows included Omnibus and the Alcoa Hour and were mostly for NBC. He had one film to his credit, "Tars and Spars" for Columbia in 1946, and also recorded narrations and occasionally wrote and directed for the stage, doing both for the 1950 production of "The Liar."
        His career had a long run, in which he starred in the revival of "Kismet" in 1965, and had a wide variety of roles from the strong young farm boy Curly to the suave, silver-haired Honore Lachalles in "Gigi." A New York Times review of that performance was headlined "Thank Heaven for Alfred Drake."
        Elliot Norton, then a reviewer for The Christian Science Monitor, was among many critics struck by the moment when the curtain rose in "Oklahoma!" and Mr. Drake began singing "Oh, What a Beautiful Mornin'." He wrote about the first night: "In that scene and song, American musical comedy took a new turn away from stilted nonsense towards something like truth and beauty. And Alfred Drake, because he got all that into his manner, his bearing and his exuberant natural singing voice, became in effect the herald of a new era."
        Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times wrote of "Kiss Me, Kate" that "Mr. Drake has become about the most valuable man in his field," and wrote of "Kismet": "Alfred Drake gives a superb performance. He sings like a thoroughbred and with one of the best voices in the theater. But Mr. Drake is also an immensely resourceful actor." Started in Brooklyn Choir
        Born in New York City with the family name Capurro, Mr. Drake grew up in Brooklyn. Encouraged by his musically inclined mother, he did his first serious singing in the choir at Our Lady of Good Counsel Church in Brooklyn.
        As a student at Brooklyn College, he joined the glee club, sang in a Gilbert and Sullivan chorus at the Adelphi Theater in Manhattan and joined his older brother, later known as Arthur Kent, singing with a small opera company at the Steel Pier in Atlantic City.
        After graduating in 1935, he worked as an understudy in a musical, "White Horse Inn." That led to a chorus part in the Rodgers and Hart musical "Babes in Arms" in 1937, which brought him further attention and helped him land his part in "Oklahoma!"
        His marriage to Alma Tollefsen ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife of 48 years, the former Esther Harvey Brown, whom he met when they were both in the cast of "Oklahoma!"; two daughters, Candace Olmsted and Samantha Drake, both of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      