
        Dr. George L. Mehren, an internationally renowned agricultural economist who served as Assistant Secretary of Agriculture in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died Saturday night at Santa Rose North Hospital in San Antonio. He was 79 years old and lived in San Antonio.
        His family said he died of a bone-marrow disease.
        Dr. Mehren was professor emeritus and former chairman of the department of agricultural economics at the University of California, where he received his undergraduate and Ph.D. degrees. He was also chairman of the Giannini Foundation of Agricultural Economics at the university.
        He lectured widely at universities abroad and served as a consultant to many foreign governments and the Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome, a United Nations agency.
        A native of Sacramento, Calif., he served as a Navy lieutenant in the Pacific in World War II. After the war, he became a director of the Office of Price Stabilization. Work in Food- Stamp Program
        President John F. Kennedy called him to Washington in August 1963 to become Assistant Secretary of Agriculture in charge of marketing and consumer affairs. The Secretary at the time, Orville L. Freeman, believed that the department -- considered the farmer's friend -- should have the consumer in mind, too.
        Dr. Mehren worked closely with Presidents Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson in developing the Food for Peace program and legislation to establish the country's food-stamp program. He also worked on prenatal nutrition and school-breakfast programs to improve the diets of children.
        In addition, he was a director of the Commodity Exchange Commission and sat on an advisory panel of the Atomic Energy Commission.
        He left the Agriculture Department in 1968 to become executive director of the Agribusiness Council in New York, a group formed to coordinate private and public efforts to address the international food problems. Later, from January 1972 to the end of 1974, he was general manager of Associated Milk Producers in San Antonio, a large dairy-farmers cooperative.
        Dr. Mehren is survived by his second wife, the former Ingeborg Gretz Hitchcock of San Antonio and Wiesbaden, Germany, where the family also has a home; two sons, Peter W. of Toronto, and George L. Jr. of Wiesbaden; a daughter, Elizabeth Mehren of Hingham, Mass.; a brother, John of Sacramento; a sister, Garland White of Santa Clara, Calif., and two grandsons.
      