
        Raymond R. Guest, a former Ambassador to Ireland who was a champion polo player and horse breeder, died yesterday in Mary Washington Hospital in Fredericksburg, Va. He was 84 years old and lived in King George, Va.
        He died of pneumonia after a long illness, his family said.
        Born in Manhattan, Mr. Guest was a grandson of Henry Phipps, who was a partner of Andrew Carnegie in the early days of the steel business and a son of the late Frederick E. Guest, an Air Minister and promoter of military aviation in Britain. He attended Phillips Academy in Andover, Mass., and graduated from Yale in 1931.
        In 1940 he volunteered for the Naval Reserve. "I'll do anything they tell me to," he said as he climbed aboard a plane for Washington. "I'll even scrub decks." Virginia State Senate
        Commissioned as a lieutenant, he did not have to. After serving on mine sweepers and as head of the Navy section of the Office of Strategic Services in London, he left the service a commander in 1946. He was awarded a Bronze Star and a Legion of Merit, both with combat devices; the Order of the British Empire; the Croix de Guerre with star; the Danish Defense Medal, and the Norwegian Cross.
        He served as an assistant to Ambassador John Gilbert Winant in London in 1945.
        In 1947, he tried his hand at politics in Virginia, where he had bought a farm. He was elected to the Virginia State Senate and served until 1953. From 1959 to 1965, he was a commissioner of the Virginia Fish and Game Commission.
        President Lyndon B. Johnson named him Ambassador to Ireland in 1965. After nine months in office, he gave $19,400 in salary back to the State Department to finance training programs for Foreign Service officers. He resigned in 1968.
        Among the winning horses he owned were Larkspur, who won the Epsom Derby in 1962, and Sir Ivor, who won in 1968. In 1965 he won the Preakness with Tom Rolfe, a horse that won a total of $671,297 after winning 16 races and placing 10 times in 32 starts. His champion jumper L'Escargot won the Grand National in 1975.
        Mr. Guest won the National Turf Writers Association's meritorious service award in 1969. He was cited for bringing Sir Ivor from Ireland to take part in the Washington International at Laurel Race Course in 1968. That made Sir Ivor the first English Derby winner to race in this country since Zev in 1923.
        Mr. Guest is survived by his wife, Princess Caroline Murat, and their two children, Achille Murat and Laetitia Amelia; three children by his marriage to Elizabeth Polk of New York: Elizabeth Stevens of Washington, Raymond Jr., of Front Royal, Va., and Virginia Valentine, of Richmond, and five grandchildren.
      