
        H. Naylor Fitzhugh, who became vice president for special markets at the Pepsi-Cola Company after a long career as a professor of business at Howard University, died on Sunday at New York University Medical Center. He was 82 years old and lived in Yonkers.
        His family said he died after a lengthy illness.
        Mr. Fitzhugh was a pioneer in the field of target marketing, the target in this case being the black consumer. His methods were adopted by large corporations who sought his advice.
        He was dubbed "the dean of black businessmen" by Black Enterprise magazine in 1974. Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller presented him with a special black enterprise achievement award the following year in a White House ceremony. Earns Harvard M.B.A.
        Mr. Fitzhugh formally retired from Pepsi-Cola in 1974. But he continued to work as a project consultant on several programs that the company had developed under his supervision.
        A native of Washington, Mr. Fitzhugh graduated cum laude from Harvard in 1930. Three years later he became the first black student to receive a master's in business administration at the Harvard Business School. He pursued doctoral studies at Columbia and American Universities.
        In Washington, he joined the New Negro Alliance, an early black advocacy group. And he found that a Harvard M.B.A. would not open the door even for a sales clerk's job if the graduate was black. Turned to Teaching
        Instead, he joined the Howard faculty in 1934 and, as a professor, taught many black executives who succeeded in corporate America when doors did open. He developed the university's marketing program, organized its Small-Business Center and advised the student marketing association for many years.
        He was a founding member and past president of the National Association of Market Developers, aimed at black consumers, and acted as a consultant for major corporations and, from 1975 to 1981, for the Census Bureau.
        He left Howard in 1965 to go to Pepsi-Cola.
        Mr. Fitzhugh is survived by his wife of 54 years, the former Selma Evelyn Hare; two sons, Dr. H. Naylor Jr., of Danville, Calif., and Richard H., of Shanghai, W. Va.; a daughter, Dr. J. Idorenyin Jamar, also of Yonkers, and five grandchildren.
      