
        Albert Nerken, a chemical engineer, industrialist and philanthropist, died last Thursday at his home in Brookville, L.I. He was 79 years old.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Nerken, who dropped out of college but later returned to complete his studies, went on to found Veeco Instruments and guide its growth into an international company. He retired as its chairman in 1989 when it was sold for more than $250 million.
        Among his charitable donations was $7 million to his alma mater, the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, its largest gift. He was a member of its board, and its engineering school is named for him. Studied During Depression
        Mr. Nerken was born in the Bronx. He was a scholarship student at Cooper Union during the Depression, with a family allowance of 15 cents a day for transportation and coffee. After failing mechanical drawing, he dropped out in discouragement, but returned to graduate in 1933.
        He worked as a chemist for Sinclair Refining, as a physicist for the National Advisory Committee on Aeronautics and as a plastics researcher. In World War II he was a civil engineer in the Manhattan Project, working on sophisticated systems to detect leaks in pipes at the diffusion plant in Oak Ridge, Tenn.
        After the war he and Frank Raible started the Vacuum Electronic Engineering Company to manufacture helium leak detectors, mass spectrometer leak detectors and high-vacuum and other laboratory equipment. In 1965 it acquired Lambda Electronics, a maker of devices to convert alternating current to direct.
        Veeco had annual sales of $180 million, 2,500 workers and operations in Mexico, Singapore, Japan and Israel. Unitech bought Veeco in 1989 and sold off the Lambda division, in Melville, L.I. Mr. Nerken joined other investors in buying back Veeco, in Plainview, L.I.
        He was a donor to the Parker Jewish Geriatric Center, Ort Federation, Gurwein Jewish Geriatric Center, Israel bonds, United Jewish Appeal, Catholic Charities and other organizations.
        Surviving are his wife of 47 years, the former Jean Altchiler; two daughters, Sara Nerken-Karpinski of Philadelphia and Ruth Nerken of Manhattan; a son, Ira of Washington, and one grandchild.
      