
        Dr. Frederick F. Kao, a retired educator who was a leader in the movement to encourage Western medicine to explore acupuncture, herbs and other traditional Chinese treatments, died last Friday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park, L.I. He was 73 years old and lived in Garden City, L.I.
        He died of complications from heart disease, his family said.
        Dr. Kao grew up with Eastern medical traditions in his native China but studied Western medicine there and later in the United States.
        He founded and edited The American Journal of Chinese Medicine, which has readers in 60 nations. He also founded and directed the Institute for Advanced Research in Asian Science and Medicine, which became a collaborative center with the World Health Organization.
        In 1973, he led a delegation of American medical scientists of Chinese descent who were invited by China to study medical practices on the mainland. Growing Acceptance
        Dr. Kao advocated that Western medicine examine Chinese techniques and adopt those that prove effective. There has been growing acceptance in the West of acupuncture and increasing interest in Chinese herbal medications. Other Chinese treatments include detailed pulse diagnosis, breathing exercises, massage and moxibustion, the application of heat.
        Born in Beijing, Dr. Kao graduated from the Yenching University and earned a medical degree at the West China Union Medical College, then went to the United States, where he earned a master's degree and a doctorate in physiology at Northwestern University.
        He taught for 37 years at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center, and for the last three years was on the faculty at Hofstra University. He specialized in respiratory physiology, a subject on which he wrote more than 100 articles, monographs and books. He also taught as a visiting professor at Yale and Oxford and at universities in Germany, Sweden, Turkey, Taiwan and Hong Kong.
        Surviving are his wife of 43 years, the former Edith Ling, and a son, John, of Boston.
      