
        William Mathias, a Welsh composer, pianist and teacher, died on Wednesday at his home on the offshore island of Anglesey in the Irish Sea. He was 57 years old.
        He died after a brief undisclosed illness, said Oxford University Press in New York.
        Mr. Mathias's work, both instrumental and vocal, covered a wide range of expressions, but he was known principally for his church music. A number of his creations were composed expressly for royal occasions, and Queen Elizabeth II made him a Commander of the British Empire in 1985.
        His career reached a high point -- and a worldwide audience -- in 1981 when he received a royal commission for a brief work to be performed in St. Paul's Cathedral for the wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana. His anthem "Let the People Praise Thee, O God," setting Psalm 67 for chorus and organ, was heard by about 750 million television viewers, very likely the largest audience a world premiere of a piece of music ever had.
        Charles, the Prince of Wales, chose the Welsh composer for a job that ordinarily would have gone to the Master of the Queen's Musick, Malcolm Williamson. Mr. Mathias was the composer of other anthems for the Anglican service as well. Played and Conducted
        Mr. Mathias was a professor and then head of the music department at University College of North Wales from 1970 to 1988. He also appeared frequently in concert as a pianist and conductor, for his own and other people's works. He was the artistic director of the North Wales Music Festival held yearly at St. Asaph.
        His frequent visits to the United States produced commissions from Harvard University, the Riverside Church in New York and Westminster Choir College in Princeton, N.J. His work was also performed at music festivals in Chicago; Dallas; Columbus, Ohio, and Santa Fe, N.M.
        Mr. Mathias was born in Whitland, Carmarthenshire, and studied at University College of Wales and at the Royal Academy of Music in London. He earned a doctorate in music from the University of Wales in 1966, the year after he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Yvonne Collins, and a daughter.
      