
        John Buettner-Janusch, a prominent anthropologist who was convicted of making illicit drugs in his campus laboratory and who then tried to kill the trial judge with poisoned candy, died on Thursday at a medical center for Federal prisoners in Springfield, Mo. He was 67 years old.
        He died of pneumonia, said William B. Wachtel, his lawyer. He added that Dr. Buettner-Janusch was in failing health and, disheartened by a recent ruling that he would not be freed until after the year 2000, had stopped eating and been force-fed.
        Before his legal problems, Dr. Buettner-Janusch had a distinguished career as an educator and researcher. Described by colleagues as brilliant, he ranked among the nation's top 10 physical anthropologists. He specialized in genetics, biochemistry and the evolution of simians and humans.
        He served as chairman of New York University's anthropology department from 1973 to 1979. He wrote over 100 articles in scientific journals and a widely used text, "Origins of Man" (Wiley, 1966). He was the scientific chairman of the Caribbean Primate Research Center and a member of the National Science Foundation's anthropology panel and the board of the American Association of Physical Anthropologists. Jailed in World War II
        He supported civil rights and labor causes, opposed the Vietnam War and was jailed as a conscientious objector in World War II, Mr. Wachtel said.  Known as B. J., he was flamboyant, with dyed blond hair and expensive suits. Critics called him erratic and tyrannical. He became depressed when his wife and colleague of 27 years, Vina Mallowitz, died of cancer in 1977.
        In 1979 a Federal indictment charged that he had converted his lab into a drug factory, using his assistants to make LSD and methaqualone for sale.
        To the end, Dr. Buettner-Janusch maintained that he was innocent. His lawyer hinted that students made the drugs and, when caught, made the professor a scapegoat. The 1980 trial resulted in convictions for making and possessing drugs, conspiracy and lying to investigators. He was sentenced to five years but was paroled in 1983.
        In 1987 he was charged with sending poisoned Valentine's Day chocolates to the judge in the drug case, Charles L. Brieant Jr. The judge's wife fell seriously ill after eating four pieces of Golden Godiva candies but survived.
        A print on the box from his little finger gave Dr. Buettner-Janusch away. Adulterated candy was also sent to a former colleague at Duke University, and authorities intercepted two other boxes. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 20 years.
        Born in Chicago, Dr. Buettner-Janusch grew up in Eagle River, Wis.
        He graduated from the University of Chicago in 1948 and earned a doctorate at the University of Michigan in 1957. From 1959 to 1965 he taught at Yale. From 1965 to 1973 he was at Duke.
        Surviving is a sister, Teddy Letts of Omaha, Neb.
      