
        Rabbi Marc H. Tanenbaum, a father of modern Christian-Jewish dialogue and, through 25 years of radio commentary, one of the best-known rabbis in America, died early yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of heart failure after undergoing heart surgery last month, said his wife, Georgette Bennett.
        With charisma and passion, Rabbi Tanenbaum preached better understanding between the faiths everywhere from the Vatican to the headquarters of the World Council of Churches in Geneva to the Christian Bible colleges of America's South.
        The son of Orthodox Jewish immigrants from Russia who owned a grocery store in Baltimore, Rabbi Tanenbaum brought Jews and Christians together for dialogue in the wake of the Nazi Holocaust and the creation of the modern state of Israel. He worked to heal nearly 2,000 years of mutual suspicion and animosity by helping both sides better understand one another. A Confrontational Friend
        His biography reads like a history of Christian-Jewish relations in the second half of the 20th century. Rabbi Tanenbaum developed friendships with Roman Catholic, Protestant and Eastern Orthodox Christian leaders, but he was not afraid of challenging them when he felt Jewish interests were threatened.
        He often found himself negotiating between Jews who felt that Christian leaders deserved more deference and others who believed that confrontation was the best approach. His efforts sometimes incurred the wrath of Orthodox Jewish leaders who believed that to engage in interfaith dialogue was to diminish Judaism.
        In his files, the rabbi kept a cartoon from the Yiddish press of the 1960's that showed Pope Paul VI holding Rabbi Tanenbaum on a leash.
        Over the years, Rabbi Tanenbaum found himself at the center of all the major Jewish-Christian controversies, everything from the Catholic convent at the death camp at Auschwitz to the claim of one Southern Baptist leader that "God Almighty does not hear the prayer of a Jew" to the position of mainline Protestants on the rights of Palestinians in Israel.
        John Cardinal O'Connor, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of New York, said yesterday that Rabbi Tanenbaum's passing was "the end of an era." He called the rabbi "a pioneer in Christian-Jewish relations and Catholic-Jewish relations in particular."
        From Rome, Edward Cardinal Cassidy, the president of the Vatican Commission for Religious Relations With the Jews, said that Rabbi Tanenbaum was "a great source of reconciliation and strength during moments of deep difficulty between our communities."
        Rabbi Tanenbaum also had a long friendship with the Rev. Billy Graham. Before Mr. Graham held a crusade in Central Park last summer, Rabbi Tanenbaum set up a meeting between the Christian evangelist and the New York Board of Rabbis to assure the rabbis that Mr. Graham was not interested in converting Jews but only in bringing Christians to their faith.
        The Rev. Jerry Falwell, who publicly debated Rabbi Tanenbaum before a rapt audience of Conservative rabbis in 1985, said yesterday, "Rabbi Tanenbaum spent his life attempting to strengthen healthy relations between Christians and Jews. He was brilliant and committed."
        Marc Herman Tanenbaum was born in Baltimore on Oct. 13, 1925, and began his education at the Talmudical Academy of Baltimore and at City High School. He entered Yeshiva University in Manhattan at the age of 15.
        After graduating from college, he began his rabbinical studies at the Jewish Theological Seminary, also in Manhattan. While a student, he became an aide to Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel, professor of Jewish ethics and mysticism at the seminary.
        Rabbi Tanenbaum edited several volumes of Rabbi Heschel's books. Reconciling Love and Hate
        While at the seminary, Rabbi Tanenbaum began to delve into the roots of anti-Semitism among Christians. He said that he was driven to reconcile how "a church that preached a gospel of love could have turned it into a gospel of hatred and destruction when it came to the Jews."
        Rabbi Tanenbaum was ordained in 1950 and, after a brief period in publishing and public relations, became one of the first Jewish professionals to devote himself virtually full-time to improve relations between Christians and Jews.
        He served as the executive vice president of the Synagogue Council of America and, beginning in 1960, as director of interreligious affairs for the American Jewish Committee.
        In the 1950's, much of the focus of the dialogue was between Protestants and Jews, but the spotlight shifted dramatically in the early 1960's when Pope John XXIII convened the Second Vatican Council. Rabbi Tanenbaum was an official observer to the council and, according to his recollection, the only rabbi to attend. Repudiation of Anti-Semitism
        In terms of relations with the Jews, the council produced a landmark document, "Nostra Aetate," which rejected the idea that the Jewish people were accountable for the death of Jesus and repudiated anti-Semitism "by anyone at any time."
        Catholic-Jewish relations became Rabbi Tanenbaum's primary concern, but he also worked to open avenues to Evangelicals, Orthodox Christians and Muslims in the years that followed.
        In 1983, he became the director of international affairs at the Jewish Committee, which introduced him to a whole new set of issues dealing with refugee relief and human rights even as he maintained his involvement in interfaith relations. He retired from the Committee in 1990 but remained as a consultant to the organization.
        In the early 1980's, he was a member of a delegation of the International Rescue Committee that made three fact-finding trips to Southeast Asia to investigate the plight of Vietnamese boat people. At the Thai border with Cambodia, the rabbi joined Elie Wiesel, the Nobel laureate and chronicler of the Holocaust, in the recitation of Kaddish, the Jewish prayer for the dead, for the million Cambodians who died at the hands of the Khmer Rouge. White House Commissions
        Rabbi Tanenbaum served on White House commissions on children, the elderly and the Holocaust. He was a member of the boards of directors of numerous institutions, including the American Jewish World Service and the International Rescue Committee. He was named to the board of Covenant House, a network of shelters for runaways, in an effort to restore confidence in the agency in the wake of scandals involving the founder, the Rev. Bruce Ritter.
        He was the former chairman of the International Jewish Committee for Interreligious Consultations, which represents Judaism in talks with the Vatican and other world religious bodies.
        He was the founder and a chairman of the National Interreligious Task Force on Soviet Jewry, which, until the collapse of the Soviet Union, worked on behalf of both Jews and Christians oppressed for their religious beliefs.
        Starting in 1965, Rabbi Tanenbaum had a syndicated radio broadcast of religious commentary on WINS, an all-news radio station in New York City.
        He also served as a consultant to movie and television productions on religious and Jewish matters, including the NBC series "Holocaust."
        Rabbi Tanenbaum received 15 honorary degrees from both religious and secular institutions, won the International Interfaith Achievement Award of the Conference of Christians and Jews and, in April, the Israel and Libby Mowshowitz Award of the New York Board of Rabbis.
        Rabbi Tanenbaum is survived by his wife, who is expecting their child in September; three children by a previous marriage, Susan, of Queens, Michael, of Brooklyn, and Adena, of Oxford, England, and a sister, Sima Scherr, of Pikesville, Md.
        Funeral services will be held on Monday at 12:30 P.M. at Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 East 87th Street.
      