
        Astor Piazzolla, the world's foremost composer of tango music, died early yesterday in Buenos Aires. He was 71 years old. A prolific composer who wrote some 750 works, including concertos, operas and film and theatrical scores, Mr. Piazzolla was also an arranger, a band leader and a virtuoso of the bandoneon, a button-operated instrument that is a hybrid of the accordion and the concertina and the principal instrument of tango music.
        Mr. Piazzolla's death came nearly two years after he suffered a stroke from which he never recovered.
        In the mid-1950's, Mr. Piazzolla single-handedly invented "the new tango," a modernized and expanded version of the passionate dance music style that was born in the 1880's in the brothels of Buenos Aires and became Argentina's musical signature. While his innovations were greeted with hostility in his homeland, his compositions, which blended elements of jazz and classical music into tango, were warmly received in Europe and the United States. In 1986 his music made it to Broadway, where it was featured in the hit show "Tango Argentino."  Learning the Bandoneon
        The composer was born in Mar del Plata, a summer resort south of Buenos Aires, in 1921 and grew up in New York City, where he lived from 1924 to 1937. For his 12th birthday his father gave him a bandoneon. He was also an avid record collector whose tastes ran from Art Tatum's jazz piano to Stravinsky's "Rite of Spring." The first compositions he learned on the bandoneon were pieces from the classical piano repertory.
        On returning to Buenos Aires in 1937, he began giving concerts in which he made a reputation for himself as a bandoneon player and arranger with Anibal Troilo, a composer who led one of the most popular tango orchestras of the time. He also began studying classical music with the composer Alberto Ginastera. In 1954, a symphony he wrote for the Buenos Aires Philharmonic won him a scholarship to study in Paris with Nadia Boulanger, who also tutored, among many others, Aaron Copland, Virgil Thomson and, later, Philip Glass. She encouraged him to write tangos rather than compose in a more academic European-oriented style.
        When he returned to Buenos Aires in 1955, he formed his own band and began making music that departed sharply from the traditional tango formats, and in 1960 he formed his influential Quinteto Nuevo Tango. Thereafter, the quintet of violin, guitar, piano, bass and bandoneon became the basis for the majority of his compositions, although he also developed big band and orchestral styles.
        He used the format to introduce dissonance and chromatic harmony and to use a much wider range of rhythm than traditional tango allowed. And while retaining tango's essential romanticism, he stretched and eventually abandoned traditional tango song forms.  Angering the Government
        These innovations initially outraged Argentina's traditionalist musical camp, and during the late 1960's his work was criticized by Argentina's military Government for being too avant-garde.
        "Traditional tango listeners hated me," he recalled many years later. "I introduced fugues, counterpoint and other irreverences: people thought I was going crazy. All the tango critics and the radio stations of Buenos Aires called me a clown, they said my music was 'paranoiac.' And they made me popular. The young people who had lost interest in tango started listening to me. It was a war of one against all, but in 10 years, the war was won."
        Mr. Piazzolla left Argentina in 1974 to live in Paris and for the next decade returned to Buenos Aires only to perform. In Europe he wrote soundtracks, and concert pieces including a concerto for bandoneon and a cello sonata for Mstislav Rostropovich. He moved back to Argentina in 1985.
        The composer is to be buried today in a private cemetery outside Buenos Aires. He is survived by his third wife, Laura Escalada, a son and a daughter.
      