
        Allen Sven Oxenburg, the founder and the artistic director of the American Opera Society, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of heart failure, said Muriel Oxenberg Murphy, a cousin.
        Between 1951 and 1970, Mr. Oxenburg's opera society presented concert and semi-staged performances of dozens of operas, many of them American and New York premieres. Among the works the company introduced to American audiences were Britten's "Billy Budd," Verdi's "Giovanna D'Arco," Handel's "Hercules" and Berlioz's "Troyens."
        The society's greatest strength, however, was the bel canto repertory, and the society's performances are credited with the revival of many neglected works by Donizetti and Bellini. And because Mr. Oxenburg enjoyed close relationships with many of the best singers of the time, he was able to present unusual works with stellar casts.  A Legendary Performance
        When Maria Callas's Metropolitan Opera contract was canceled, Mr. Oxenburg signed her up for a January 1959 performance of Bellini's "Pirata" that quickly became legendary in operatic circles.
        He gave many European singers their first American exposure, and he had an uncanny ability to spot young singers who would soon become stars in the opera world. The extensive list of singers whose first New York performances were in the society's operas includes Montserrat Caballe, Joan Sutherland, Teresa Berganza, Eileen Farrell, Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau, Maureen Forrester, Marilyn Horne, Leontyne Price and Jon Vickers.
        Mr. Oxenburg was born in New York on July 10, 1927. He studied linguistics and music at New York University and Columbia University, and at schools in Canada, France and Germany between 1945 and 1951.
        During the years he ran the American Opera Society, Mr. Oxenburg had a hand in everything from administration to stage direction, program annotation, libretto translation and score editing. In 1970, when he was unable to raise enough money to keep the company afloat, Mr. Oxenburg disbanded the society and became a dealer in rare and antique photographs.
        He is survived by a brother, Bernard Oxenberg, of Miami, and two half-sisters, Molly Foreman, of Baltimore, and Lulu Kassover, of Rockville Centre, L.I.
      