
        Joe Newman, a trumpeter best known for his long associations with the Count Basie Orchestra, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 years old.
        He died of complications from a stroke, said his former wife, Rigmor Newman.
        Mr. Newman was an exceptional musician who bridged the swing and be-bop worlds. Born in New Orleans, the son of the pianist Dwight Newman, he was a product of the city's rich musical heritage. He studied with one of Louis Armstrong's teachers and attended Alabama State Teachers College, a breeding ground for talented musicians, where he was a member of the Bama State Collegians band.
        Mr. Newman began his professional career in 1941, when he joined Lionel Hampton's big band. He stayed with the band until 1943, when he joined Count Basie's orchestra for the first of two long stays, leaving in 1946. From 1946 to 1952 Mr. Newman worked freelance, performing regularly with the tenor saxophonist Illinois Jacquet and the drummer J. C. Heard.
        In 1952 Mr. Newman rejoined Count Basie. He spent the next 10 years as one of the orchestra's main soloists, replacing Harry (Sweets) Edison. Two Soviet Tours
        A decade later, Mr. Newman began to freelance again, and along with his wife, he helped form Jazz Interactions Inc., a nonprofit organization dedicated to teaching and maintaining the jazz tradition. Mr. Newman spent much of his time teaching and giving lectures, although he maintained a busy playing schedule as well.
        In 1962 Mr. Newman joined the Benny Goodman Orchestra, which toured the Soviet Union under the auspices of the State Department. He joined the New York Jazz Repertory Orchestra in 1973 and toured the Soviet Union again in 1975. He also played in Broadway shows and was a regular in recording studios, working with artists including Judy Garland, Tony Bennett, Frank Sinatra, Aretha Franklin, Louis Jordan and Quincy Jones. He recorded more than 25 albums under his own name.
        His companion was Keiko Kimura.
        He is survived by three daughters: Nicole, of Brooklyn, Bonita McAdams of Glasgow and Annie, of Los Angeles; two sons, Kevin, of Santa Ana, Calif., and Fredrik, of Sharon, Conn.; two sisters, Ruby Martin of Kenner, La., and Georgia Lockwood of Virginia Beach, Va., and a brother, Alvin Newman of San Francisco.
      