
        Richard R. Hough, who retired as an executive of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company in 1982 after a 42-year career with the Bell System, died with his wife on Thursday when their plane crashed at Concord, N.H. The couple, formerly of Madison, N.J., lived in Dunbarton, N.H. Mr. Hough was 74, and his wife, Jane, was 73.
        An A.T.& T. spokesman, Walter Murphy, said that Mr. Hough had just taken off from Concord Airport en route to New Jersey when their twin-engine turboprop Mitsubishi MU-2 experienced trouble and fell in an open field. No other injuries were reported.
        Richard Ralston Hough, a native of Trenton, graduated Phi Beta Kappa in engineering from Princeton University in 1939 and received an M.S. there a year later. In his senior year he set two world swimming records in one week. He served as a Princeton charter trustee for more than 20 years. A Competitive Skier
        Jane Hough, whose maiden name was Jackson, was born in Brookline, Mass. She graduated from junior college in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and then studied in Switzerland. A competitive skier, she was an official at the 1980 Olympics in Lake Placid, N.Y., and was a silver medalist in a skiing event at Monmouth Mountain, Calif., this year. In New Jersey, she engaged in volunteer work and was a past president of the Junior League of Morristown.
        Her husband joined Bell Laboratories in 1940 and worked for 17 years on naval and antiaircraft radar systems. He then became vice president of operations at the Ohio Bell Telephone Company and vice president-engineering at A.T.& T. headquarters before being appointed president of the Long Lines Department in 1966. In 1978 he rose to his final post, A.T.& T. senior executive vice president, overseeing all Bell engineering and network operations.
        In 1961 he headed Project Beacon, a Federal study of the most efficient and safest uses of airspace.
        A sports medalist like his wife, Mr. Hough (the name rhymes with rough) was a pilot with more than 30 years of flying experience. The Houghs were married for 51 years.
        The Houghs are survived by three daughters, Suzanne H. Pedersen of Seattle, Edith H. Overtree of Houston, and Dr. Jane Hough of Earlville, N.Y.; three sons, Richard R. Jr., of Roanoke, Va., William F., of Basking Ridge, N.J., and Robert M. of Derry, N.H., and 13 grandchildren.
        Also surviving are Mr. Hough's sisters, Dorothy Urban of New Bern, N.C., and Edith Ruhlman of Sun City West, Ariz., and Mrs. Hough's brother, Richard Jackson of Lowell, Mass.
      