
        Morris Pesin, a longtime civic leader in Jersey City who is credited as the father of the park that honors the Statue of Liberty, died Friday at Christ Hospital in Jersey City. He was 80 years old.
        The cause of his illness was undetermined, his family said.
        Mr. Pesin trained as a lawyer and for many years ran a children's clothing store, but he was best known for his many civic, political, religious, racial and cultural causes.
        When President Ronald Reagan honored his efforts in 1985 with a Volunteer Action Award at the White House, Mr. Pesin said, "I am a symbol that there are little people who do all the work, the little people of America."
        He conceived and campaigned for the creation of Liberty State Park, 760 acres on Jersey City's shoreline with sweeping views of the Hudson River, the Manhattan skyline and New York Harbor. The park became a new gateway from the mainland for ferries to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island. A Historic Canoe Trip
        The idea was born on a three-hour trip to the statue in 1958. Mr. Pesin fought traffic in Lower Manhattan to reach a destination that was only a few hundred yards from the neglected Jersey City waterfront.
        Dramatizing his point later, he paddled a canoe from the New Jersey side in just seven minutes.
        Eventually the park opened in 1976. Serving on its advisory panel, he fought proposals for a golf course, marina, commuter ferries and other developments to capitalize on the site. He said that "town houses, theme parks, ritzy this and ritzy that" would commercialize the park.
        In an early cause, he helped the N.A.A.C.P. integrate local restaurants in the 1930's. He also helped his brother in a lawsuit breaking the color barrier at Palisades Amusement Park, formed a fair employment committee pressing for state anti-bias laws and organized interfaith programs for his synagogue and for black Christians.
        Running as an independent against a Democratic machine, he served on the City Council from 1969-77. He called himself the city's watchdog and mounted a doghouse atop his car.
        Surviving are his wife of 54 years, the former Ethel Pliskin; a son, Sam, and a daughter, Judy Borriello, both of Brooklyn; a sister, Edith Horowitz of Jersey City, and two grandchildren.
      