
        Harrison A. Storms Jr., an aeronautics pioneer, died on Saturday at his home in Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif. He was 76 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, said Earl Blount, a family friend and associate.
        Mr. Storms's designs and leadership played a key role in developing B-25 bombers and P-51 Mustang fighters in World War II and in Project Apollo's billion-dollar race for the moon in the 1960's.
        He joined North American Aviation in 1941, just after he received a graduate degree in aeronautical engineering from the California Institute of Technology. He continued with the company when it became Rockwell International. When he retired almost 30 years later, he had worked on a total of 48 aircraft and space vehicles.
        These included the F-86 fighter of the Korean War and the F-100 Super Sabre. He also had a hand in designing the X-15 rocket plane, a space research craft.
        Earlier this year, Mr. Storms's contributions to American aerospace programs were honored with the International von Karman Wings Award for Lifetime Achievement, given by the Aerospace Historical Committee of the California Museum of Science and Industry. His earlier citations included the Air Force Meritorious Civilian Service Award.
        Mr. Storms served on a number of committees of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. He was a consultant to the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board and was a member of the Defense Department's Research and Steering Group.
        Known as "Stormy," Harrison Allen Storms Jr. was born in Chicago. He graduated from Northwestern University, where he met his wife, the former Phyllis Wermuth.
        Mrs. Storms recalled the night he bolted from his pillow and awoke her with a triumphant, "I've got it." That was when he figured out the shape for a cockpit canopy on the P-51 Mustang, the fighter North American built in World War II.
        Mr. Storms advanced to vice president and chief engineer in 1957 and to president of North American's Space and Information Systems division in 1960. Months later, Yuri A. Gagarin and the Soviet space team surprised this country with the first manned earth orbit.
        That year, in 1961, President John F. Kennedy vowed that America would take the lead in the exploration of space. The race was on, Project Apollo became the largest scientific and technological undertaking the world had ever seen, and North American and Mr. Storms played pivotal roles in it.
        His division won billion-dollar contracts for both the Saturn second-stage launch vehicle and the Apollo command and service modules. The program he presided over for a long time at North American -- later Rockwell -- culminated on July 20, 1969, when Apollo 11 beat the Russians to the moon.
        In addition to his wife of 52 years, Mr. Storms is survived by a daughter, Patricia Warner; two sons, Harrison A. 3d and Richard W., and four grandsons.
      