
        Kennett L. Rawson, a book publisher, died on Friday at Mather Memorial Hospital in Port Jefferson, L.I. He was 81 years old and lived in New York City and Setauket, L.I.
        Mr. Rawson died of heart failure, said his wife, Eleanor S. Rawson.
        As president of the David McKay Company, in Manhattan, from 1950 to 1974, Mr. Rawson published a number of books that became best sellers.
        Among them were several by Vance Packard, including "The Hidden Persuaders"; several volumes by the environmentalist Euell Gibbons, including "Stalking the Blue-Eyed Scallop," and Caroline Bird's discussion of feminism in "Born Female." Mr. Rawson and his wife, who was vice president, also helped to establish the popularity of the travel books by Eugene Fodor.  Arctic Expeditions
        In 1974 the Rawsons left McKay to found Rawson Associates, Publishers Inc., a division of Macmillan Publishing Company. Among the books they published was "The Complete Scarsdale Medical Diet," by Dr. Herman Tarnower. Mr. Rawson retired as chairman of the company's publications committee last year.
        Mr. Rawson was born in Chicago. As a teen-ager, he was a member of four expeditions to the Arctic during the 1920's led by Commodore Donald B. Macmillan. At 15 he wrote an account of one expedition, "A Boy's Eye View of the Arctic," which was published by Macmillan. After graduating from Yale in 1933, Mr. Rawson was the navigator on the second expedition of Adm. Richard E. Byrd.
        Upon his return in 1935, Mr. Rawson joined the publishing firm of G. P. Putnam's Sons to work on Admiral Byrd's book, "Alone," and rose to become vice president and editor in chief. The authors he edited included Winston Churchill and the Duke of Windsor.
        During World War II, Mr. Rawson served as a lieutenant commander in the Navy in the Pacific.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a son, Kennett Jr., of Brooklyn, a daughter, Linda, of Santa Fe, N.M., and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 18, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary on Thursday about Kennett L. Rawson, a book publisher, misstated the history of his company. Rawson Associates Inc. was founded in 1974 and merged in 1978 with the Wade Publishing Company to become the Rawson, Wade Publishing Company. It became a division of the Macmillan Publishing Company in 1984.
      