
        Dr. Joseph F. Boyle, an internist who specialized in diseases of the chest and was a president of the American Medical Association, died on Thursday at his home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 67 years old.
        He died of cancer, officials of the American Society of Internal Medicine said in Washington. Dr. Boyle retired from the society in March after serving for seven years as its executive vice president.
        He was also a member of the A.M.A.'s board of trustees and its chairman before becoming the association's president in 1984-85.
        As president Dr. Boyle was outspoken on various issues. He admonished doctors about high fees and salaries, for example, and called for tougher peer review "to root out the incompetent." Opposed Ban on Abortion
        In June 1981, as chairman of the A.M.A. board, he testified against a bill intended to overturn the 1973 Supreme Court decision in Roe v. Wade, which legalized abortion. Dr. Boyle told a Senate Judiciary subcommittee that the measure would require doctors to "be responsible for the welfare of every fetus, whose legal and health interest would, in the eyes of the law, be equal to, but may be in conflict with, those of the woman."
        He was born in Jersey City and educated at St. Peter's College there and at Villanova University. He had planned to become a priest but later decided on a career in medicine. He received his medical degree from Temple University in 1948.
        Dr. Boyle moved to California in 1951, practicing in the Los Angeles area. He was an associate clinical professor of medicine at the University of Southern California from 1954 until he moved to the Washington area in 1985 to become executive vice president of the internal medicine society.
        He was a past president of the California and Los Angeles County Medical Associations and of the California chapter of the American College of Chest Physicians.
        Dr. Boyle is survived by his wife, Marylin L., 10 sons and daughters, three brothers, two sisters and 12 grandchildren.
      