
        Heinz Galinski, the head of Germany's postwar Jewish community, who spoke out sharply against neo-Nazism, died yesterday. He was 79.
        Mr. Galinski died at the German Heart Center in Berlin, where he had undergone heart surgery last month, but never recovered, said officials of the Berlin Jewish community.
        The survivor of three concentration camps, Mr. Galinski became the leader of Berlin's tiny postwar community of a few thousand Jews, the remnant of a once-flourishing community of 160,000. An ardent Zionist and friend of conservative politicians and publishers, Mr. Galinski spent much of his adult life fighting against assimilation and urging the German Government to toughen laws against Nazi propaganda.
        "I know that I am an uncomfortable figure because of some of the things that I say," Mr. Galinski, the elder of the West Berlin Jews who spoke out sharply and publicly against neo-Nazis, said in 1984. "But I get a lot of support for saying things that otherwise would not get said."
        It was an outspokenness that ran deep. Diversion of Funds
        In 1988, Mr. Galinski, who had not long before become chairman of the Central Council of Jews in Germany, caused a stir in both social and political circles by announcing that his predecessor at the organization, Werner Nachmann, had evidently helped himself to millions of dollars intended for Holocaust victims.
        Though there was concern that the news would cause an anti-Semitic reaction, Mr. Galinski boldly and promptly advised Chancellor Helmut Kohl and others. It was, he said at the time, "one of the darkest hours for the Jewish community since 1945."
        After Germany reunited in 1990, Mr. Galinski often warned that a wave of radical rightist violence against foreigners could mean the return of widespread persecution. Germany must never be allowed to forget its crimes against humanity, he said. Leadership Posts
        Mr. Galinski had headed the Berlin Jewish Community since 1949 and the Central Council of Jews in Germany since 1988.
        Born Nov. 28, 1912 in the Prussian town of Marienburg, now Malbork in Poland, he moved as a young man to Berlin, where he witnessed the rise of Nazism. In 1943, Mr. Galinski, then 30, was deported to the Auschwitz concentration camp. He was later transferred to Buchenwald and finally to Bergen-Belsen, a camp that would be liberated by British troops in April 1945, just before World War II ended in Europe.
        Mr. Galinski's father, a businessman and a World War I veteran of the German army, died under Gestapo arrest. His mother and first wife also died in the Holocaust.
        In 1975 he narrowly escaped a bomb attack by the extreme leftist Red Army Faction. After that, a bodyguard was often seen accompanying him.
        In January, one of his greatest wishes was realized with the dedication of a national memorial at Berlin's Wannsee Villa -- a memorial established as a study center to combat neo-Nazi claims that the Holocaust did not happen.
        It was at this spot in Berlin that top Nazis had met in Jan. 1942 to approve "the final solution" -- a plan to exterminate 11 million European Jews. Six million were killed.
        "The voices are not yet stilled, those who want to minimize the crimes of the Nazi regime," Mr. Galinski is quoted by the Associated Press as having said at the the dedication.
        Mr. Galinski is survived by his second wife, Ruth, and a daughter, Evelyn. Funeral arrangements have not yet been announced.
      