
        Victor Louis, a Russian journalist who for many years watched the ins and outs of Kremlin politics for the Western press, died here on Saturday, his family said Sunday. He was believed to be 64 years old.
        Mr. Louis died in a hospital from a heart attack after surgery.
        To many who read him and observed his work, Mr. Louis often seemed as if he led a curious professional double life.
        Working as a Moscow-based freelance reporter for European newspapers, he provided news about the Soviet leadership, stories that foreign correspondents found inaccessible. Two of his best-known exclusive accounts broke the news of the fall from power of Nikita S. Khrushchev in 1964 and the death of former Prime Minister Ale ksei N. Kosygin in 1980. Denied an Official Role
        Mr. Louis had close official connections, and this led some in the West to suspect that he in fact functioned as an agent of official Soviet policy, circulating to Western audiences that information from the tightly controlled world of Moscow that Kremlin leaders wanted to be spread abroad.
        He was accused of being a Soviet mouthpiece, even a Soviet agent -- pursuits that he repeatedly and strenuously denied.
        An obituary of Mr. Louis today in The Times of London noted that he remained a puzzle to his colleagues despite his long association with Western journalists. Recalling comments by Churchill, the paper said:
        "Winston Churchill's remark about Russia being a riddle wrapped in a mystery inside an enigma might equally apply to Victor Louis. A mild-mannered man with a sardonic sense of humor, he dabbled in journalism when it suited him or when the lobbies of the Soviet system, including the K.G.B., demanded it." Sent to Siberia
        Mr. Louis was born in Moscow in 1928 and was educated at a university there. However, he ran afoul of the Stalinist purges and was sent to Siberia and Kazakhstan on charges of spying for the West and black-marketeering.
        He survived this, and returning to Moscow, got a job in 1956 working for Edmund W. Stevens, Moscow correspondent for The Sunday Times of London, who died in May.
        Mr. Louis branched out on his own, gaining a reputation for journalistic firsts, whether through Kremlin public relations or his own endeavors. His fluent English won him freelance work with a series of Western newspapers, including The Daily Express of London and Bild Zeitung, a major German daily. Later, he became an expert on stories about Soviet dissidents and is crediting with bringing the manuscript of "The Cancer Ward" by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn to Western attention.
        In the latter part of his life, he lived in considerable style with his English-born wife, Jennifer, at a dacha outside Moscow, but came to Britain for medical treatment, where he had a liver transplant several years ago.
      