
        Victor Louis, a Russian journalist who for decades purveyed information that the Soviet Communist Party and the K.G.B. wanted to appear in the Western press, died on Saturday at Cromwell Hospital here. He was 64 years old.
        Mr. Louis died of a heart attack, his wife, Jennifer, said, adding that he had successfully undergone an operation for a recurrence of cancer on Thursday and had been recovering well.
        Born Vitaly Yevgenyevich Lui in Moscow on Feb. 5, 1928, he became a fascinating and enigmatic figure in the shady world of official Soviet journalism during the cold war. He changed his name to Victor Louis when he started working for Western news agencies in the 1950's.
        Mr. Louis was a part-time correspondent for the London Evening News for 29 years until 1980, and later for The Sunday Express, often making world headlines with news he reported exclusively, until the mid-1980's. In recent years he traveled extensively around the world and, with his wife, who was born in Britain, ran a lucrative hard-currency business publishing guides and telephone directories for foreigners in Moscow. Access to Power
        In an era when it was often difficult for foreign diplomats and journalists in Moscow to approach ordinary Russians, Victor Louis was always ready to receive them at an opulent country estate in the writers' colony of Peredelkino, where he lived like a millionaire. The two-story wood-and-stone dacha was filled with antiques, icons, paintings, and statuary, and had an indoor swimming pool. Outside, there was a tennis court that converted to a skating rink in winter. Western television sets, telephones, video recorders and other high-tech gadgets fascinated him.
        Tall, gray, and handsome in a sharp-featured way, Mr. Louis was a curiosity to the diplomatic community and an object of fear and contempt to internal opponents of the Communists. He had a sharp tongue, and used his polemical skills vigorously to attack critics of his own behavior or of the Government's.
        "Why do you people always call me colonel in the K.G.B.?" he once asked Ronald Payne, a British author and journalist, who replied, according to The Daily Telegraph today, "Goodness, have you been promoted to general at last, Victor?" He insisted that he was neither, but exactly what he was never was clear.
        Arrested after completing law studies at the Moscow University in 1949, at the height of Stalin's post-World War II purges, Mr. Louis spent five years in prison camps, emerging in 1956, reportedly after having been beaten by fellow inmates. He became a translator for a well-known American journalist, the late Edmund Stevens, of Time magazine and later The Sunday Times of London.
        Mr. Louis quickly established a reputation of his own, providing news no foreign correspondent had a hope of getting access to. He knew, before Western correspondents did, that Nikita S. Khrushchev had been ousted as Soviet leader in October, 1964, and later reportedly had a role in smuggling Khrushchev's memoirs, "Khrushchev Remembers," to the West, though neither his widow nor the American translator of the memoirs, Strobe Talbott, was willing to confirm that today.
        Mr. Louis might have become a prominent Soviet commentator on foreign affairs. He made news in 1969 by warning that China could face a Soviet nuclear strike if it did not make up with Soviet leaders. But his career took a more unsavory turn. K.G.B. Link Suspected
        Many of his reports and activities abroad smacked of K.G.B. disinformation or dirty work. In 1968, he circulated an unauthorized copy of the manuscript of Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's "Cancer Ward" in Europe, apparently not to find it a Western publisher but rather to discredit its author at home.
        In 1977, he was the first to report that a bomb had gone off in the Moscow subway and killed five people, and quoted official sources saying that a dissident group had planted it; the dissident physicist Andrei D. Sakharov immediately countered that considering who reported it, the explosion had probably been set off by the K.G.B.
        In the early 1980's, Mr. Louis correctly forecast that Konstantin U. Chernenko would be chosen as successor to the Soviet leader Yuri V. Andropov, who died after a short reign following the demise of Leonid I. Brezhnev.
        In mid-1985, five years after Sakharov's exile to the city of Gorky, Mr. Louis came up with a film showing the physicist being treated in a hospital and reading American magazines, at a time when he was not allowed to call his family in Moscow or the United States. And in October Mr. Louis brought the news that Yelena Bonner, Sakharov's wife, would be allowed to leave the Soviet Union for medical treatment, following a series of hunger strikes by her husband. Release of Dissident
        Mr. Louis sent his last notable "scoop," predicting the impending release of the imprisoned Jewish dissident Anatoly B. Shcharansky in February 1986 to the German tabloid Bild Zeitung.
        After this, Mr. Louis's access to official news seemed to fade away, a sign perhaps of the changes taking place under Mikhail S. Gorbachev. In the past few years, according to his widow, Mr. Louis traveled extensively around the world. "He collected islands," she said. "He would go to any one that would give him a visa." Britain apparently did not, though he often hinted that he would like to live here in retirement.
        He appeared at the funeral of the late British publishing magnate Robert Maxwell in Israel last November, having worked for him as a representative of Pergamon Press, and also appeared at Mr. Stevens's funeral in Moscow last May.
        Recently, he had left the running of the business in Moscow to his wife and their three sons, Anthony, 24, Michael, 30, and Nicholas, 31, all of whom are British subjects. This included the publication, twice a year, of "Information Moscow," the indispensable guide for foreigners living in the Russian capital, and revisions of "The Complete Guide to the Soviet Union," last published in 1991 by St. Martin's Press.
        Mr. Louis came to Cambridge, England, in March 1987 for a liver transplant operation after doctors discovered that his was cancerous. He returned to England on June 21, Mrs. Louis said, suspecting a recurrence of the disease, and doctors at Cromwell Hospital removed his adrenal gland on Thursday.
        His remains will be cremated here and taken back to Moscow for burial, she said.
      