
        Patric Farrell, who served as director of the Irish Theater and the Museum of Irish Art in New York in the 1920's and 30's, died on Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 years old.
        He died of pneumonia and heart failure, said his brother, John.
        Although he devoted his life to Ireland and its culture, Mr. Farrell was born in Brooklyn and lived almost his entire life in New York. He did not visit Ireland until 1965, a trip he undertook with a certain amount of trepidation. "It's like going back to a new world," he said to a reporter at the time.
        Mr. Farrell's infatuation with Ireland began at age 14, when he attended a talk at the Brooklyn Academy of Music given by George Russell, the Irish poet who used the pen name AE. Produced Irish Plays
        In the 1920's he became the executive director of the Irish Theater, at Sheridan Square in lower Manhattan, where he produced 25 Irish plays, including the American premiere of Sean O'Casey's "Silver Tassie" in 1929. In 1934 he founded the Museum of Irish Art, in Manhattan; the museum no longer exists.
        In 1959 Mr. Farrell became embroiled in a highly publicized legal battle that began with a well-meaning piece of advice. Mr. Farrell suggested to Peter Kavanagh, an impoverished Irish scholar living in New York, that he might find interesting material for his business, the Peter Kavanagh Hand-Press, in the John Quinn papers at the New York Public Library.
        Mr. Quinn, a lawyer and arts patron who died in 1924, left a will stating that the papers, which included correspondence with James Joyce, Joseph Conrad and John M. Synge, could not be published until 1988. Mr. Kavanagh gained access to the papers and memorized selections, which he printed in a slim book, "The John Quinn Letters: A Pandect," in his tenement flat.
        The library obtained an injunction against distribution of the book, and as the sheriff closed in to seize copies, Mr. Kavanagh managed to place nine copies with Mr. Farrell, who fought a legal battle to keep them. The case was settled out of court in 1961. Mr. Farrell kept the books. Disdainful of Convention
        Mr. Farrell cut a romantic figure. He wore his thick black hair swept back and in later years grew a mustache and small goatee under his lower lip. He carried a blackthorn walking stick given to him by William Butler Yeats. Disdainful of convention, he lived with his second wife, the Swedish-born painter Elsa de Brun, for 50 years before marrying her at Carnegie Hall in 1985, explaining that marriage had become the unconventional thing to do. His wife, whose career Mr. Farrell managed, used the name Nuala, which is Gaelic for "beauty of the white shoulders."
        In 1960, when he was asked by a reporter to describe himself, he replied, "I can do it in a word: outrageous."
        He received an honorary doctorate from the University of Maine at Orono.
        In addition to his brother, of Manhattan, he is survived by a daughter, Patricia Wilson, of Holland, Mich.
      