
        Gen. Clyde D. Eddleman, a former Vice Chief of Staff of the Army, died last Wednesday at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 90 years old and lived in Arlington, Va.
        General Eddleman died of respiratory failure, an Army spokeswoman said.
        Born in Orange, Tex., General Eddleman graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1924. He retired as Vice Chief of Staff in 1962, his career having combined combat and high-level administrative experience with military-school experience as student, instructor and commandant.
        During World War II, General Eddleman, then a colonel and assistant chief of staff of the Sixth Army, took part in more than 50 combat landings in the Pacific, receiving the Silver Star, the Distinguished Service Medal and a battlefield promotion to brigadier general. His other military decorations included the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star and the Philippine Distinguished Service Star.  Called On by MacArthur
        He participated in the first four months of the American military occupation of Japan and was then called to Washington by Gen. Douglas MacArthur to serve as an Army representative on the joint Federal agency review of the war effort.
        From the late 1940's until his 1960 appointment as Vice Chief of Staff, he was deputy commandant of the newly formed Army War College, deputy commander of United States troops for the Allied Military Government, deputy assistant chief of staff at the Pentagon, head of the Fourth Infantry Division in West Germany, commandant of the Army War College, Deputy Chief of Staff of the Army, and commander of the Seventh United States Army in West Germany.
        After his retirement, he was vice president and later a director of the Universal Match Corporation. He was also a board member of the Army and Air Force Mutual Aid Association from 1962 to 1980 and chairman of the organization from 1980 to 1982.
        General Eddleman is survived by his wife, Lorraine, and a son, John H., of Hurleyville, N.Y.
      