
        Emanuel P. Popolizio, former chairman of the New York City Housing Authority and a lifetime champion for the betterment of Greenwich Village, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in the West Village, where he was born.
        His family said he was stricken in his office a month ago and died of heart failure.
        Mr. Popolizio was a friend and an early supporter of Edward I. Koch from the days when Mr. Koch was the Village Reform Democratic leader, through his campaigns for City Council, Congress and City Hall. Mayor Koch appointed Mr. Popolizio, a former chairman of the Conciliation and Appeals Board, to head the Housing Authority at the start of 1986. He served there until November 1990.
        Since he left the agency, he was general counsel to the city's Rehabilitation Mortgage Insurance Corporation, a quasi-public body formed to provide such insurance for residential housing. Championed Artists' Housing
        Mr. Popolizio was co-founder and chairman of the Committee for Artists' Housing that opened the way to combined studio-residences through amendments to the building codes. The city issued the first permit for a pilot project on Greenwich Street, and other such artists' housing followed in the Soho and Westbeth neighborhoods.
        A graduate of City College and the St. John's School of Law, Mr. Popolizio, who was known as Wally, was a past president of the Kiwanis Club of Greenwich Village. In 1960, he organized the Kiwanis Basketball League for youngsters, which is still active today.
        Mr. Popolizio was highly visible in the former MacDougal Street Area Neighborhood Association, and the Greenwich Village Development Council and Eighth Street Task Force of Community Board 2, of which he was a former chairman. The thrust of his efforts was to keep Washington Square and the Village safe for its residents and free of street noise, delinquency, fast-food outlets and honky-tonk coffeehouses.
        Aside from his private practice, Mr. Popolizio handled cases free of charge to further tenants' rights and to improve the legal standing of tenants before the Board of Standards and Appeals.
        The city's Conciliations and Appeals Board administered the rent-stabilization law and resolved disputes involving 900,000 apartments under its jurisdiction. Mr. Popolizio served as chairman, a part-time post, from January 1979 until the state took over the agency's functions in 1983.
        In 1966, when Mr. Koch ran for City Council, some Italian-American backers feared that he might not carry 10 wards in the South Village that were predominantly Italian at the time. Mr. Popolizio composed a speech that he delivered at dozens of tenements. One version went, in part, something like this:
        "Hello, Mrs. Verdi. I'm Wally Popolizio. You remember me? I used to deliver ice here with my father. Listen, I want you to vote for my friend, Ed Koch."
        Mr. Koch carried the wards with comfortable margins and did so in 1970 when he ran in the Congressional primary.
        When Mayor Koch named Mr. Popolizio to the Housing Authority, he was asked whether there was not a whiff of cronyism about it. Mr. Koch acknowledged that friendship had something to do with the appointment but added, "If I have two people, both with excellent credentials, and one is a friend of mine, I'm going to take my friend."
        Mr. Popolizio promptly faced a new Federal mandate to seek out and evict illegal immigrants from among the nearly 600,000 tenants in 317 housing projects. He called the rule inhumane and likely to increase homelessness. Urged 'More Thought'
        "I'll carry out the law," he said. "But more thought ought to go into this."
        He was less squeamish about a police campaign in 1988 to rid the projects of drug dealers. "Stay the hell out," he warned them in public-service television spots, "or we'll nail you."
        Mr. Popolizio is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Lenehan; two daughters, Valeria Lindquist of Greenwich Village and Donna Rosenfield of Woodmere, L.I.; a stepdaughter, Molly Lenehan of Boston; a stepson, Tim Lenehan of Los Angeles; three sisters, Mary Popolizio of Greenwich Village, Rose Cavagnaro of Lincoln Park, N.J., and Carmen Seh of Manhattan; two brothers, Michael of Jersey City, and Dominick of Boynton Beach, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      