
        Frederick O'Neal, an award-winning actor who was the first black president of the Actors' Equity Association, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan.  He was 86 years old.
        He died after a long illness, said Dick Moore, a spokesman for the union.
        A character actor whose reviews reflected his ability to evade typecasting, Mr. O'Neal acted on stage and television and in film. He made his Broadway debut in 1944 in the role of the comic bully Frank in "Anna Lucasta." For his performance, he won the Clarence Derwent Award as most promising newcomer of the theater season, the New York Drama Critics' Award for best supporting performance of 1944 and the Donaldson Award for the 1944-45 season. He recreated the role in Chicago and London and in the film version of the play. Smoothing Contention
        Mr. O'Neal also had stage roles in "Take a Giant Step," "House of Flowers," "Lost in the Stars" and "Ballad for Bimshire." In films, he was seen in "Pinky," "No Way Out" and "Something of Value."
        Mr. O'Neal was the president of the Actors' Equity Association from 1964 to 1973 and was named president emeritus after leaving office. A soft-spoken, big-boned six-footer, his gentleness sometimes irritated the more militant younger black members of Equity.  When meetings got tense, he had a knack for breaking the strain, either by a quip or by calling for a coffee break.  He told lively jokes that often surprised those who expected staider comments from him.
        Named for Frederick Douglass, the 19th-century black journalist and statesman, Frederick Douglas O'Neal was born in 1905 in Brooksville, Miss., where his father was a teacher and merchant. Although he and his seven brothers and sisters were often painfully aware of segregation, they did not suffer economically. In 1919, when his father died, rather substantial property holdings were sold and the family moved to St. Louis, which Mr. O'Neal called his hometown and where, in 1927, he first acted professionally. The Pull of the Stage
        He had been stagestruck ever since he appeared as a child in amateur theatricals in Brooksville. He said the realization that the stage could let someone take a trip into an imaginary world and attract attention had led him to choose acting instead of medicine or business as a career.
        In an interview in The New York Times in 1964, Mr. O'Neal said the most frequent member of the audience at the Brooksville productions was the midwife who had delivered half the town.
        "She just sat there," he said. "You couldn't tell if she liked it or not. But it kindled my desire for acting."
        In 1927, Mr. O'Neal and some friends organized the Aldridge Players, a black theater group named for Ira Aldridge, the first black to play Othello.  He came to New York in 1936 and worked for several years as a laboratory assistant while studying acting at night. Dissatisfied with the state of the black theater, he helped to found the American Negro Theater in 1940 and appeared in a number of its productions.
        "We got $22,500 from the Rockefellers during the 10 years it lasted," Mr. O'Neal said of the theater. "I have often thought where could you get so much for so little. Earle Hyman, Harry Belafonte, Alice Childress, Sidney Poitier, they all started with our theater." Further Leadership Posts
        The theater produced "Anna Lucasta" in June 1944, and it was produced on Broadway the following September. Mr. O'Neal also helped to organize the British Negro Theater in London in 1948.
        Mr. O'Neal was elected president of the Associated Actors and Artistes in 1970 and retired from the position in 1988. He also served for many years as a vice president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and as a member of its executive council.  He was succeeded at both Actors' Equity and Associated Actors by Theodore Bikel.
        Mr. O'Neal received several honorary degrees, including an Honorary Doctor of Human Letters from St. John's University in 1981. He had also been honored by the National Urban League, the Black Heritage Association and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which named him its man of the year in 1979. In 1990, the Black Film Makers' Hall of Fame paid him a special tribute.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Charlotte Talbot Hainey.
      