
        Prof. Daniel Gorenstein of Rutgers University, one of the world's foremost theoreticians in what may be the supreme example of abstract mathematics, died Wednesday at his summer home in Chilmark on Martha's Vineyard. He was 69 years old and lived in Rocky Hill, N.J.
        He died after a brief illness, his family said.
        Professor Gorenstein was the Jacqueline B. Lewis Professor of Mathematics at Rutgers and the founding director of the Center for Discrete Mathematics and Theoretical Computer Science, a science-technology center of the National Science Foundation at Rutgers.
        He played an active role in campus life. In the 1980's, he led a faculty task force on graduate and professional education.
        "Professor Gorenstein was a major factor behind Rutgers' ascension to the top public research universities in the country," said Dr. Joseph J. Seneca, university vice president for academic affairs. "He was totally committed to the university and its achievement of academic excellence." The Night Before a Duel
        Dr. Gorenstein focused on the Theory of Groups, a most complex and abstruse tool in higher algebra. It was set forth by Evariste Galois, a 20-year-old French mathematician, in a 60-page letter to a friend written feverishly in 1832 the night before he was killed in a duel.
        With the theory, Galois answered many longstanding questions, demonstrating for example the impossibility of squaring the circle. And in trying to find a way to solve equations of the fifth or higher powers, he found that each solution could be related to one of the members of what he called a group.
        Formally, a group is a collection of objects -- like numbers -- together with operations -- like addition or multiplication -- by which these objects can be combined. All whole numbers, positive or negative, and the operation of addition are an example of a group, in this case an infinite group.
        Similarly, the symmetries of a regular polygon like a triangle and its rotations or flips form a group. In the case of the triangle it is a finite group of only six elements. Math's Lengthiest Proof
        What Galois left for posterity to puzzle over has exercised theoretical mathematicians ever since, as they contemplated such areas as spectro scopy, crystallography, particle physics and quantum mechanics as well as such purely mathematical precincts as geometry, topology and number theory. The Theory of Groups provided links between algebra, geometry, coding theory, quantum mechanics and elementary-particle physics.
        Dr. Gorenstein achieved the classification of the finite simple groups, the lengthiest proof in the history of mathematics, which drew on the labors of hundreds of mathematicians and hundreds of articles running to thousands of pages. The classification revolutionized finite group theory, solving longstanding problems and conjectures. It has since been applied in nearly every branch of mathematics.
        Condensing that entire history, Dr. Gorenstein wrote an article for Scientific American in 1985 that explained the classification to the interested layman, while his two books on the subject treat it in depth.
        Dr. Gorenstein was born in Boston and received A.B., M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard. He began his career at Clark University and spent several years at Northwestern before accepting a professorship at Rutgers in 1969. He had held his endowed chair for the last nine years.
        His book "Finite Simple Groups: An Introduction to Their Classification" (Plenum Publishing, 1982) won a Leroy P. Steele Prize for expository mathematical writing.
        Dr. Gorenstein is survived by his wife of 45 years, the former Helen Brav; three daughters, Diana Dalsass of Teaneck, N.J., Phyllis Erickson of Leominster, Mass., and Julia Nourok of Manhattan; a son, Mark, of Cambridge, Mass.; a brother, Harry, of Lake Worth, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      