
        Dzevad Mujezinovic, a member of the Yugoslav Government and a former Ambassador to the United States, died Tuesday after a long illness, in the Vojno-Medicinska-Akademija Hospital in Belgrade. He was 57 years old.
        Mr. Mujezinovic died of cancer of the colon, Nebojsa Vujovic, First Secretary at the Yugoslav Embassy in Washington said.
        A Bosnian of Muslim origin, Mr. Mujezinovic was an indirect victim of the diplomatic conflict between the Serbian-led Government of Yugoslavia and Washington. In a move to show displeasure with the Serbian assault on the republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d withdrew the diplomat's credentials at the end of June.
        Mr. Mujezinovic had been under treatment at the Medenica Clinic in Hilton Head, S.C., before returning to Yugoslavia on July 1.  Familiar With U.S.
        The Yugoslav diplomat had applied to the Foreign Ministry in Belgrade for early retirement because of health reasons and had planned to retire last month anyway, Mr. Vujovic said.
        A career diplomat, Mr. Mujezinovic was called on to serve as a member of the Yugoslav Government in July 1988. As Minister for Technical Cooperation, he was Secretary General of the Ninth Conference of the Non-Aligned Countries in Belgrade in 1989 and headed the Committee for Economic Relations with the Developing Countries.
        In 1989 Mr. Mujezinovic, who was Bosnian and whose wife is Serbian, was sent to Washington to represent the troubled Yugoslav Republic. He was familiar with the United States, having served as deputy permanent representative to the United Nations in New York from 1976 to 1980.
        Joining Yugoslavia's diplomatic service in 1969, Mr. Mujezinovic held various senior posts becoming director of the Office for Non-Aligned Countries in 1980. From 1984 to 1987, he served as Ambassador to Iraq and in 1988, he was named Assistant Secretary for Foreign Affairs in charge of Asia, Africa and Latin America.
        Born on Dec. 15, 1934, in Orasac, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr. Mujezinovic received a bachelor's degree from the Modern Language Department at the University of Belgrade and an advanced degree from the School for Foreign Trade.
        Fluent in English, German and Russian, he was author of many articles and essays on international relations and foreign affairs published in Yugoslavia.
        He is survived by his wife, Stajka, and a daughter, Selma.
      