
        Eugene B. Horowitz, the author of five published novels, died on Friday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of a heart attack, said Stan Herman, his companion for the last 39 years and president of the Council of Fashion Designers of America.
        Mr. Horowitz's first novel, the outgrowth of a college writing exercise, was "Home Is Where You Start From" (Norton, 1966). A review in The New York Times praised it as "a remarkable achievement" for the feelings it portrayed in the everyday struggles of two middle-class Orthodox Jewish families. A second Times review called the book "wonderful," saying "there was not a single false note from start to finish."
        His other novels were "A Catch in the Breath" (Norton, 1968), about an elderly widow and her love affairs; "Mr. Jack and the Greenstalks", also known as "The Velvet Jungle" (Norton, 1970), about the career and sexual conflicts of a gay designer who marries; "Ladies of Levittown" (Marek-Putnam, 1980), about middle-aged suburban housewives, inspired by women he met in a literature class he taught; and "Privates" (St. Martin's, 1986), a largely autobiographical story of a young man's growing up and falling in love.
        Recently he was nearing completion of "W.W.," a novel about the poet Walt Whitman, which Mr. Herman plans to have published.
        Born in Bayonne, N.J., Mr. Horowitz grew up there and in Brooklyn. After serving in the Army, he graduated from City College in New York and taught English for about 10 years in public high schools in Manhattan, Marlboro, N.Y., and Chappaqua, N.Y. In 1964, he turned to his writing career full-time.
        During summers he lived on Big Fresh Pond in Southampton, L.I. In 1977 he helped found the East End Gay Organization on Long Island and its fund-raising affiliate, the Linda Liebman Human Rights Fund.
        His immediate survivors are a sister, Esther Siegel of Southampton, and a brother, Robert, of East Windsor, N.J.
      