
        Dr. Mortimer G. Rosen, the director and chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center and a leader in the field of perinatal care, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 60 years old.
        Dr. Rosen died of Lou Gehrig's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, said his son Bradley.
        Dr. Rosen was an expert on the fetal brain and was a vigorous advocate for improving the quality of prenatal care available to pregnant women the United States. His 1989 book, "The Caesarean Myth: Choosing the Best Way to Have Your Baby," which was published in 1989 by Penguin, raised the issue of unnecessary Caesarean deliveries.
        In addition, Dr. Rosen's textbook, "Management of Labor," which was published by 1990 by Elsevier Science Publishing Company, has been widely cited in the field of obstetrics. Dr. Rosen also wrote "In the Beginning: Your Baby's Brain Before Birth," published in 1975 by the Plume Publishing Company.
        Dr. Rosen served on several state and Federal panels examining health-care issues. In the late 1980's, he was chairman of a panel of the National Institutes of Health on Caesarean births, and in 1990 he was chairman of a New York State committee to reduce the rates of Caesarean deliveries in New York hospitals.
        A native of Brooklyn, Dr. Rosen earned a bachelor's degree at the University of Wisconsin at Madison in 1951 and a medical degree from New York University in 1955. He served his internship and residencies at Bellevue Hospital and the Genesee Hospital of the University of Rochester. From 1957 to 1959, Dr. Rosen served in the United States Air Force, rising to the rank of major. From 1962 to 1973, he was on the faculty of the University of Rochester's School of Medicine and Dentistry. From 1973 to 1985, he was a professor of reproductive biology at the Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine and director of obstetrics and gynecology and director of the Maternity and Infant Care Project at Cleveland Metropolitan Hospital. He was also a director of the perinatal research unit of the National Institutes of Health.
        Dr. Rosen joined the faculty of the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1985 as the Willard C. Rappleye Professor and chairman of obstetrics and gynecology. He was also director of Sloane Hospital for Women, the obstetrics and gynecology service of the Presbyterian Hospital.
        Dr. Rosen contributed numerous articles to medical journals and was an editor or member of the editorial board of several, including Obstetrics and Gynecology and the Journal of Perinatal Medicine. He was a member of several medical associations, including the American Medical Association and the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the Royal Society of Medicine.
        Dr. Rosen recently established a research program, which will be named in his memory, for new obstetricians and gynecological specialists.
        Dr. Rosen is survived by his wife, Dr. Lynn Rosen; his mother, Tess Rosen, of Brooklyn; two sons: Robert, of Cambridge, Mass., and Bradley, of Manhattan, and a sister, Selma Schumer, of Brooklyn.
      