
        Dr. Cyril Stanley Smith, Institute Professor Emeritus at M.I.T. and a prominent metallurgist and historian of technology, died Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 88 years old.
        The cause of death was cancer, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology said.
        Dr. Smith was also professor emeritus of the history of science and technology and professor emeritus of metallurgy. His title of Institute Professor distinguishes faculty members whose work transcends individual departments and disciplines.
        He was an authority on the relationships between humans and their materials, applying materials science and engineering concepts to the study of archeological artifacts.
        In addition, Dr. Smith was known for his research in metallurgy, the science of metals, and advanced the use of metallography, the study of the physical properties of metals, in examining artifacts. He delved into the structure of inorganic matter, starting by analyzing the shape of metal grains, and eventually developed a general theory of structure as hierarchy.  Worked on Atom Bomb
        His books, published by M.I.T. Press, included "A Search for Structure" (1981), "From Art to Science" (1980), and "A History of Metallography: The Development of Ideas on the Structure of Metals to 1890" (1988).
        Dr. Smith was born in Birmingham, England. He graduated from the University of Birmingham before earning his doctorate in science at M.I.T. in 1926. From then until 1942 he was a research metallurgist at the American Brass Company and began writing a steady stream of papers for technical publications.
        In World War II, he joined the Manhattan Project at Los Alamos, N.M., to direct the preparation of the fissionable metal for the atomic bomb as well as other materials for nuclear experiments. His work was recognized with a Presidential Medal for Merit.
        In 1946, he went to the University of Chicago and became the founding director of its Institute for the Study of Metals.
        Moving to M.I.T. in 1960, he held dual positions in the departments of metallurgy and humanities. His purpose, he said, was to "encourage the understanding of human history and human activity through the scientific investigation of the material record of the past."
        He established M.I.T.'s Laboratory for Research in Archeological Materials, which some years later led to the founding of the Center for Materials Research in Archeology and Ethnology, a consortium of universities and museums in the Boston area.
        Dr. Smith is survived by his wife of 60 years, Alice Kimball Smith, a dean emerita at Radcliffe College; a daughter, Anne Smith Denman of Ellensburg, Wash.; a son, Stuart M. Smith of La Jolla, Calif.; a sister, Mary Smith of Sutton Coldfield, England, and four grandchildren.
      