
        Thomas W. Frank, a metallurgical engineer and a member of the New York Stock Exchange, died on Aug. 23, at his home in Manhattan. He was 75 years old.
        He died of a cardiac arrest, a family member said.
        Active in investment management, Mr. Frank became an individual member of the New York Stock Exchange in 1950. He was registered as both a broker and a dealer and was a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers.
        An authority on alloys, he invented a method of producing metallic mixtures of great strength and resistance to heat and corrosion.
        Mr. Frank assisted in setting up Copperweld Steel Company's electric furnace plant in Warren, Ohio, in 1939. The plant played a vital role in steel production during World War II. He began his career with the Timken Roller Bearing Company of Canton, Ohio, and then joined Copperweld, becoming assistant to the general superintendent.
        Born in Pittsburgh, Mr. Frank came from an old steel-making family. His father, William Frank, was chairman of Copperweld and his grandfather, Isaac Frank, founded the National Steel Company in Pittsburgh.
        Mr. Frank graduated from Cornell University in 1938 with a bachelor of science degree in engineering. Later he was a research fellow at Stevens Institute of Technology, where he earned a master's degree in metallurgy in 1946.
        He was an active fund-raiser for organizations that included Cornell University, the American Cancer Society, the United Negro College Fund, the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and The Town School. He served as a board member of the American Jewish Committee and past president of the James Weldon Johnson Community Center in Manhattan.
        Mr. Frank is survived by his wife, Claire Weil Frank; a son, Thomas of Manhattan; two daughters, Kathryn Frank Blume and Mary K. Frank, both of Berkeley, Calif.; a brother, James A. of Pittsburgh; a sister, Maud of Manorville, L.I., and three grandchildren, Alston Boyd, Marisa Frank and Zachary Blume.
      