
        Sir Robert Muldoon, who was Prime Minister of New Zealand from 1975 to 1984 and was for years a powerful figure in New Zealand politics, died early today in a hospital in Auckland. He was 70 years old and lived in Auckland.
        The immediate cause of his death was not clear, said Stephen Rowe, senior press secretary to Prime Minister Jim Bolger. Mr. Rowe said from his office in Wellington that Sir Robert had been in ill health after heart-valve surgery and had been admitted to the hospital for tests.
        As Prime Minister, Sir Robert, who headed the conservative National Party from 1974 to 1984, was a firm supporter Anzus, the defense treaty linking the United States, New Zealand and Australia. While he was Prime Minister he was also Finance Minister.
        In domestic economic policies as Prime Minister, Sir Robert, a gruff, hearty man who was an accountant by profession, undertook a series of what he called "think big projects."
        After he first became Finance Minister in 1967, he presided over the change of the old New Zealand pound to a decimal currency, the New Zealand dollar.
        Sir Robert and his party were swept from power by the Labor Party in general elections in July 1984, after a campaign in which the chief issues were domestic. Sir Robert said then that a factor in his defeat was the emergence of a new political organization, the New Zealand Party, which drew conservative voters from the National Party.
        After conceding defeat, Sir Robert said: "I'm not going to burst into tears or anything like that. This is politics. You win some and you lose some." Exam in a World War II Tent
        Mr. Muldoon's decision to call the election of 1984 came to be regarded by some New Zealanders as a serious miscalculation. Critics have suggested that the loss of the election stemmed from what has been called Sir Robert's strong leadership style.
        Robert David Muldoon -- he was knighted in 1983 -- was born on Sept. 25, 1921, in Auckland, the son of James Henry and Mamie R. Muldoon. He was an infantryman in the Pacific and studied accounting while in uniform. He took his final examinations in accounting as a corporal in Italy in the tent of Maj. John Marshall, a New Zealander whom Sir Robert succeeded as leader of the National Party.
        Sir Robert joined the party in 1947 and became a chartered accountant and president of the New Zealand Institute of Cost Accountants. Sir Robert was first elected to the Parliament in 1960, on his third try. He soon made his mark in a feisty group of young backbenchers who sometimes took their own leaders to task, as well as Labor members. The group came to be known as the Young Turks.
        Sir Robert was Parliamentary Under Secretary to the Finance Minister from 1963 to 1966. He became Tourism Minister in 1967, before his tenure as Finance Minister, from 1967 to 1972. He was also Deputy Prime Minister for part of 1972.
        In his first years as Finance Minister, Sir Robert gained a reputation as a skilled administrator who often startled other officials with the thoroughness of his homework.
        He went on to be chairman of the board of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in 1979 and 1980 and chairman of the Ministerial Council of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in 1982.
        After 1984, Sir Robert held posts like president of the New Zealand Football Association.
        Surviving is his wife, the former Thea Dale Flyger. They had one son and two daughters.
      