
        Former Gov. Nils A. Boe of South Dakota, whom President Richard M. Nixon appointed as a White House aide and later as chief judge of the United States Customs Court, died on Thursday at Sioux Valley Hospital in Sioux Falls, S.D. He was 78 years old and lived in Sioux Falls.
        His family said the cause of death was cancer.
        While serving on the Customs Court, Judge Boe issued a number of notable decisions, including a sharply worded rebuke of Mr. Nixon in 1974. The President had ordered a 10 percent surcharge on all import duties as a way to reduce the nation's trade deficit, a move that generated $500 million in four months. But a three-judge panel led by Judge Boe ruled that the power to impose such a surcharge rested with Congress and that Mr. Nixon had overstepped his authority. Ordered Imposition of Duties
        "Expedience cannot justify the means by which a deserving and beneficial national result is accomplished," Judge Boe wrote in that case. "To indulge in judicial rationalization in order to sanction the exercise of power where no power in fact exists is to strike the deadliest of blows to our Constitution."
        Three years later he was on a three-judge panel that ordered the Carter Administration to comply with laws imposing duties of 5 percent to 40 percent on an array of popular Japanese electronic products, including televisions, radios, tape recorders and record players. The judges dismissed warnings from the Administration that the duties would upset international relations and trade.
        The son of Nils N. Boe, a Lutheran bishop for a synod covering four states, Mr. Boe was born in Baltic, S.D., and grew up in Sioux Falls. After graduating from the University of Wisconsin and its law school, he worked as a private lawyer and as Deputy State Attorney for Minnehaha County. He served as a Navy lieutenant in World War II.
        A Republican, he won election to the State House of Representatives for four two-year terms and became House Speaker. He was elected Lieutenant Governor in 1962 and Governor in 1964 and was re-elected in 1966.
        As Governor, he increased aid to education, advocated property-tax cuts, promoted industrial development and helped start the state's educational television system.
        In 1969 President Nixon appointed him director of the new White House Office of Intergovernmental Relations and in 1971 named him to the Customs Court, in Manhattan. He retired from the court in 1984.
        Surviving are two sisters, Borghild Boe of Sioux Falls and Lois Hyslop of State College, Pa.
      