
        Wang Hongwen, a former deputy chairman of the Chinese Communist Party and one of the "Gang of Four" who presided over the frenzied Cultural Revolution, died on Monday, the official New China News Agency reported today.
        The report said he was 58 years old, but other accounts suggest he may have been 56 or 57. The agency said he died of a liver ailment.
        Mr. Wang, a trim, boyish figure who catapulted from a minor job in a textile mill to the national leadership, was sentenced in 1981 to life in prison for his role in the Cultural Revolution.
        The report today said he "was hospitalized in 1986 when he became ill," suggesting that he may have been released from prison six years ago and kept since then in a hospital or under house arrest. Faded From Collective Memory
        For all Mr. Wang's importance in the Maoist era, he is now virtually a forgotten figure. The Chinese press never mentions his name, and the television news tonight did not even report his death. The news agency's brief dispatch did not give any personal details or mention survivors.
        The most famous of the Gang of Four was Jiang Qing, the wife of Mao Zedong. Her initial death sentence was commuted to life in prison, and she committed suicide last year.
        Nothing is known of the whereabouts of the other two members: Yao Wenyuan, who is supposed to be serving a 20-year sentence, and Zhang Chunqiao, whose death sentence was commuted to life in prison.
        Mr. Wang (pronounced wong), a handsome man with a reputation as a high-living playboy, was very close to Ms. Jiang. Ross Terrill, Ms. Jiang's biographer, quotes a foreign Communist leader as saying: "Wang Hongwen was completely under her thumb. Once at a banquet in my honor, when Wang was to propose a toast, Jiang Qing prompted him, digging him in the ribs in a familiar way."
        "I wondered if there was not a sexual relation between Wang and Jiang Qing," Mr. Terrill quotes the visiting Communist as saying. There is, however, no solid evidence of such intimacy. Charged With Decadence
        After he was arrested in 1976, in a quasi-coup just a month after Mao's death, the official press excoriated Mr. Wang and accused him of decadence.
        "Using illicit methods, Wang Hongwen plundered, embezzled and squandered the wealth of society created by the working people," People's Daily declared in 1977. "In 1974, he ordered one of his followers whom he placed in the Shanghai Light Industry Bureau to send him such expensive items produced by local factories as choice cameras, wrist watches, film projectors and new sedan cars."
        The Gang of Four were key figures in promoting revolution and class struggle during the Cultural Revolution, which lasted from 1966 to 1976 and virtually paralyzed the Government and economy. Millions of Chinese, especially officials, intellectuals and those with ties to the West, were "struggled against" -- tortured, imprisoned or sent to the countryside -- and hundreds of thousands were killed or driven to suicide. Rose Rapidly to the Top
        While Mr. Wang and his three colleagues played central roles in the Cultural Revolution, they could not have succeeded without the on-and-off support of Mao. The Government could not denounce Mao, the driving force behind the revolution, and so it pinned all the blame on the Gang of Four.
        The report by the New China News Agency today underscored Mr. Wang's role as a scapegoat, identifying him only as "a principal culprit" in a "counterrevolutionary clique."
        Mr. Wang was born in 1934 or 1935 -- accounts vary -- in Jilin Province in northeastern China to a family of poor peasants. He joined the army, fought in the Korean War and ended up as a minor functionary in the security department of the Shanghai No. 17 Cotton Textile Mill.
        When Mao started the Cultural Revolution in 1966 and invited citizens to "bombard the headquarters," Mr. Wang was happy to oblige. In November 1966 he helped form the Shanghai Workers' Revolutionary Rebel General Headquarters.
        In 1967 Mr. Wang formed an alliance with the other members of the Gang of Four, and his career soared. He helped send Shanghai, traditionally China's most cosmopolitan city, into revolutionary paroxysms. Traffic was even directed to go forward on red lights and stop on green, because red was a revolutionary color. Not everybody got the message, however, and the roads became as chaotic as the rest of daily life.
        In 1973 the Communist Party named Mr. Wang the deputy chairman of the party, under Mao, but he was turned down in his effort to become deputy chairman of the state as well. A Brusque Arrest
        "What is wrong with rebellion?" Mr. Wang asked in a major speech in 1974. "It was through the rebellion led by Chairman Mao against imperialism, feudalism and bureaucratic capitalism that members of the Communist Party of China achieved the victory of revolution and succeeded in seizing political power."
        Most of the nation was tired of perennial revolution, however, when Mr. Wang arrived for a Politburo meeting on Oct. 6, 1976, in the Central Committee headquarters. He was unprepared when security guards, on orders from his enemies, leaped out and handcuffed him, knocking him to the floor.
        The other members of the Gang of Four were arrested the same evening, and finally went on trial in 1980 and 1981. Mr. Wang later obediently wrote the self-criticisms that were demanded of him, but it was never clear whether he really repudiated what he had done.
        When he was still in power, Mr. Wang expressed certainty that the Cultural Revolution was a good thing, but he acknowledged that there would be long-lasting doubts.
        "Will our Great Cultural Revolution be cursed?" he asked in his 1974 speech. "Certainly some people will curse it. And even 10 years or several decades later, there will be some people who will curse it."
      