
        Thomas J. McIntyre, a Democrat who became an influential Senator from a Republican state, died yesterday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 77 years old and lived in Laconia, N.H., and Tequista, Fla.
        He died of Alzheimer's disease, pneumonia and heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. McIntyre scored a historic upset in 1962 as the first Democrat in 30 years elected to the Senate in New Hampshire, a fabled Republican bastion. He made history in 1966 as the first Democratic Senator in the state's history to be re-elected. He also won in 1972 but was defeated in 1978. From Hawk to Dove
        In the national tumult of 1968, he was co-chairman of President Lyndon B. Johnson's campaign in New Hampshire, the first primary. Mr. McIntyre denounced Mr. Johnson's Democratic challenger, Senator Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota, as an "appeaser." But Mr. McCarthy's surprisingly strong showing embarrassed the President, who announced shortly afterward that he would not seek re-election.
        Originally an avowed hawk on Vietnam, Mr. McIntyre announced a change of heart in 1969, saying, "Our nation is tearing itself apart."
        Serving as a subcommittee chairman on the Banking and Armed Services Committees, he earned a liberal reputation. When the John Birch Society rated him the worst Senator, he said, "I must be doing something right."
        He advocated arms control, national health care, restrictions on aerosol chemicals to protect the ozone layer, a ban on price fixing in stock fees, solar energy and reduced Government paperwork. He wrote the law creating share-draft checking accounts for savings institutions. On a divided committee, he voted for New York City's loan guarantees. Opposed Bush for C.I.A.
        He caused a stir in 1967 by criticizing investment managers and by showing he could beat their recommendations by literally throwing darts at stock listings.
        He was also the floor manager of a losing effort to block George Bush's confirmation as Director of Central Intelligence in 1976. He argued that appointing the former national Republican chairman would politicize the agency in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal.
        His 1978 defeat by Gordon J. Humphrey, a Republican, resulted from his support of the Panama Canal Treaty and abortion rights, overconfidence from a poll showing him leading 2 to 1, opposition from one of the state's leading newspaper's, The Manchester Union Leader, and its publisher, William Loeb, and Mr. Humphrey's introduction of Boston television commercials into New Hampshire politics.
        Afterwards, Mr. McIntyre was a coauthor of "The Fear Brokers" (Pilgrim Press, 1979), about what he called "the bully boys of the radical New Right."
        Born in Laconia, he was a graduate of Dartmouth College and the Boston College law school. In World War II he served in the Army in Europe, reaching the rank of major and winning a Bronze Star.
        He returned to Laconia to practice law and own rental buildings, then was elected Mayor from 1949-51, the only elective office he held before being elected to the Senate.
        Surviving are his wife of 51 years, the former Myrtle Clement; a daughter, Martha G. McIntyre of Gilford, N.H., and a grandson.
      