
        Reinout P. Kroon, a retired engineer and educator who helped develop the first American-designed turbojet engine, died Tuesday at Chester County Hospital in Media, Pa. He turned 85 years old that day. He lived in Kennett Square, Pa.
        His family said he died of injuries suffered in an automobile accident.
        Mr. Kroon led a team at Westinghouse Electric in Philadelphia that developed the turbojet engine in the 1940's that enabled the United States to catch up with its European competitors. Race to Jet Engines
        The English had conducted the first successful test of a turbojet engine in 1937. The Germans flew the first jet airplane in 1939, soon followed by the English and Italians. General Electric built early jet engines in the United States, based on English designs.
        The turbojet was a major advance over propeller engines, providing more power with lighter and more aerodynamic engines.
        Mr. Kroon served as chief engineer of Westinghouse's aviation and turbine division. His other posts included research director and chief engineer of advanced design and development.
        His leadership on the turbojet project won him the Spirit of St. Louis Medal from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers in 1950 and two later honors from the society. Native of the Netherlands
        He was granted 14 patents and published more than 20 technical papers and several philosophical articles.
        Born in Hoorn, the Netherlands, Mr. Kroon graduated from the Technische Hochschule in Zurich. He came to the United States and began working for Westinghouse in 1931. His specialties were steam turbines, heat transfer and thermodyamics.
        In 1960 he left Westinghouse to become a professor of engineering at the University of Pennsylvania. He retired in 1975.
        His wife of 57 years, the former Dora Kaestli, died in 1990.
        He is survived by his second wife, the former Barbara Crawford; three sons, Bert of Bend, Ore., Peter J. of East Patchogue, L.I., and George of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; five great-grandchildren; three stepsons, John Crawford of Paris, Ross Crawford of Houston and Terry of Portland, Me., and a stepdaughter, Liza Porter of Saratoga Springs, N.Y..
      