
        Wilber G. Smith, a civil-rights leader and former Connecticut state legislator, died on Friday at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Newington, Conn. He was 57 years old and lived in Hartford.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Smith served the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People as head of its national prison program and leader of its statewide branch and Greater Hartford chapter.
        A Democrat, he was in the State Senate from 1971 to 1977 and 1981 to 1985. There Senator Smith was co-author of a 1982 law, believed to be the first in the nation, authorizing enterprise zones to encourage business development in depressed urban neighborhoods through grants, loans and tax abatements. The concept was widely copied across the country.
        As a freshman legislator in 1971, he single-handedly blocked a bill to impose a one-year residency requirement for welfare recipients. Exercising his right to speak, he held the Senate floor till a midnight deadline to adjourn, thus preventing a vote. Courts have since ruled that such welfare requirements are unconstitutional.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Smith, who described himself as a militant, demonstrated for jobs for the poor and members of minority groups at insurance companies in Hartford. He called for investigations of the state's prisons, the civil service, the ambulance industry and the Bridgeport police. He was arrested at a protest at the State Welfare Department.
        Mr. Smith marched with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and was a state co-chairman for the Rev. Jesse Jackson's Presidential campaign in 1984 and a delegate at the Democratic National Convention that year.
        Born in Orlando, Fla., Mr. Smith attended segregated schools there. He served as a corporal in the Army in the 1950's and graduated from Eastern Connecticut State University and the Connecticut School of Law.
        As a young man he worked as a machinist and later as an equal opportunity program coordinator in Manchester and an affirmative action official for the state. He served on the Hartford Charter Revision Commission.
        His marriage to the former Claire Hall ended in divorce. Survivors include two sons, Stephan of Hartford and Scott of Albuquerque, N.M.; a daughter, Stacy Smith of Hartford; two sisters, Dorothy Cruse and Kathrine Woods, both of Hartford, and four grandchildren.
      