
        Seymour Lawrence, an independent book publisher in New York City and Boston for almost 30 years who brought the first works of many important writers to the public, died on Tuesday at the Englewood Community Hospital in Englewood, Fla. He was 67 and lived in Wilton, Conn.
        The cause was complications of a heart attack, said Irene Williams, the publicity director of the publisher Houghton Mifflin, with which Mr. Lawrence was affiliated.
        Among the dozens of distinguished authors published by Mr. Lawrence, who was known as Sam, were Thomas Berger, Richard Brautigan, J. P. Donleavy, Jim Harrison, Katherine Anne Porter, William Saroyan, Kurt Vonnegut and Frank Conroy. 'Good Scout'
        "Sam's importance in the literary world was as a very good scout of talent," Mr. Vonnegut said yesterday.
        Mr. Lawrence published Mr. Vonnegut's novel "Slaughterhouse-Five" in 1969, after the manuscript had been rejected by the publishing firm with which the author had a contract.
        He published the works of four authors who won the Nobel Prize for Literature: Miguel Angel Asturias, Camilo Jose Cela, Pablo Neruda and George Seferis.
        Mr. Lawrence started his independent imprint in 1965 with only one book on his list, "The Ginger Man," by Mr. Donleavy. Later he published such notable books as "Ship of Fools," by Ms. Porter; "Trout Fishing in America," by Mr. Brautigan; "Going After Cacciato," by Tim O'Brien; "Little Big Man," by Mr. Berger, and "Selected Poems," by Mr. Neruda. Survival as an Independent
        He was unusual on the publishing scene in that he survived as an independent for more than 25 years, well into the era of merger and consolidation. In 1983, he was affected by the turmoil of the times. After 17 years of association with Dell, primarily with the Delacorte label, his imprint fell victim to the economy ax wielded by the troubled management team at Doubleday, Dell's owner.
        After a stop at E. P. Dutton, Mr. Lawrence's imprint went to Houghton Mifflin in 1988.
        At a party for Mr. Lawrence given by Houghton Mifflin in 1990, a number of authors, among them Mr. O'Brien, Mr. Vonnegut and Mr. Harrison, gathered to pay him tribute. Also present was a bookstore owner, John Evans of the Lemuria Bookstore in Jackson, Miss. Mr. Evans was described then as probably having sold more of Mr. Lawrence's books than any single bookseller. "Sam," said Mr. Evans, "has given the reader a fine bowl of literary gumbo."
        Mr. Lawrence's authors described him as a publisher who was passionately committed to writers and writing, but who was not always tolerant of "misguided reviewers" or the publishing bureaucracy.
        Joseph Kanon, an executive at Houghton Mifflin, said at the 1990 tribute: "The first time I met Sam Lawrence, he was making an argument on behalf of one of his authors. The last time I spoke with him, this morning, he was doing the same thing. On both occasions, as usual, he got what he wanted."
        Mr. Lawrence, who grew up in New York City, became absorbed in books early in life. He was the editor of Wake, a literary magazine, when he was a student at Harvard University, from which he graduated in 1948. After working as a traveling book salesman, he joined the Atlantic Monthly Press in Boston in 1952. He became that firm's director three years later.
        He is survived by his mother, Sophie Lawrence of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Nicholas Lawrence of Cambridge, Mass.; a daughter, Macy Ratliff of Bothell, Wash.; two granddaughters, and his companion, Joan Williams of Oxford, Miss.
        Correction:  January 8, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Seymour Lawrence, an independent book publisher who died on Tuesday, misidentified the publisher of "Little Big Man," a 1964 novel by Thomas Berger. It was the Dial Press, not Mr. Lawrence.
      