
        Hidalgo Moya, an architect known for his painterly eye and engineering talent, died on Wednesday in Hastings, England, in the Conquest Hospital, which was designed by his firm. He was 74 and lived nearby in Rye.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, the former Jean Conder.
        Mr. Moya retired in 1990 from a partnership of 44 years with Sir Philip Powell in the London-based architectural firm that is now called Powell Moya & Partners.
        The Times of London said last week in appraising Mr. Moya's work that although he claimed the design of a building was the creation of a purely practical framework, he would transform it "into a creation in which certain details were selected for particular care and attention," which "gave his buildings the sparkling images and effects which set them apart from works by his contemporaries." Wide Range of Projects
        The structures on which he worked out his ideas over the years ranged from school buildings at Oxford and Cambridge to the British Pavilion for Expo 70 in Osaka, Japan. Another British newspaper, The Sunday Times, said in 1993 that Mr. Moya and Sir Philip's soaring Skylon structure at the 1951 Festival of Britain, "has proved the most enduring of the new forms, even though its physical life was less than a year."
        "A slim, vertical, illuminated cigar perched seemingly impossibly on tense insect legs," the newspaper said, "it has been a clear and strong influence on such present-day masters as the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava."
        Mr. Moya, who did not use his first name, John, was born in Los Gatos, Calif., to a Mexican-American father, also named Hidalgo, and a British mother, Lilian Chattaway. He grew up in Britain, where he studied at the Royal West of England College of Art and the Architectural Association School of Architecture.
        His 1947 marriage to Janiffer Mary Innes Hall ended in divorce in 1985. He remarried three years later.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters and a son from his first marriage, and five grandchildren.
      