
        Eric Warner Johnson, a Quaker educator and author of scores of books intended largely for young readers or their parents, died on Thursday at Chestnut Hill Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 76 and lived in the Germantown section of Philadelphia.
        The cause was head injuries from a fall the day before, his family said.
        Mr. Johnson was a former administrator and teacher of English and sex education at Germantown Friends School. Being around teen-agers for more than 30 years was an impetus to his writing.
        In it he sought to explain to the young how to face the world around them and the realities of growing up. Conversely, he advised their elders on the ways and attitudes of the young trying to cope with adolescence.
        He said he started writing books as a seventh-grade teacher. "I found there was no practical book to help kids learn to spell on their own," he explained, "so I devised a method, tried it out in classes over a couple of years and then put it in the book, 'Improve Your Own Spelling.' " First published in 1956, the book remains in print, as do more than a dozen of his other works.
        These include "Raising Children to Achieve" (1985), "How to Live Through Junior High School" (1959), "How to Live With Parents and Teachers" (1986) and "Older and Wiser: Wit, Wisdom and Spirited Advice From the Older Generation" (1986). He also wrote, "Treasury of Humor" (1989), "Love and Sex and Growing Up" (1990), "Humorous Stories About the Human Condition" (1991) and "Quaker Meeting: A Risky Business" (1991).
        Mr. Johnson was born in Philadelphia. He graduated from Germantown Friends School in 1936 and from Harvard College and the Harvard Graduate School of Education. A conscientious objector in World War II, he served as a relief and refugee worker for the American Friends Service Committee in Portugal, North Africa, Egypt and India.
        After the war, he continued overseeing the committee's work in East Asia and then served as a Quaker international affairs representative. He was headmaster of Friends' Central School in Philadelphia before joining the faculty of Germantown Friends in 1954 as head of the junior high school. He retired in 1975 to be a consultant and write.
        Mr. Johnson is survived by his wife of 44 years, Gay Gilpin Johnson; two daughters, Rebecca Weisberg of Philadelphia and Emily Mohler of Seattle; a son, Jeffrey G., of Long Beach, Calif.; a brother, Walter J. Jr., of Cambridge, Mass., and four granddaughters.
      