
        Dr. Harold Delaney, a retired professor and college president, and his wife, Geraldine, were found beaten to death on Thursday at a home they owned in Pilot Mountain, N.C. Dr. Delaney, 74, and Mrs. Delaney, 71, also lived in Silver Spring, Md.
        The authorities in North Carolina said a warrant had been issued in the killings.
        A former associate dean of the State University of New York, Dr. Delaney became president of Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y., in 1974, serving for a year during a period of great transition for the institution. Founded as a women's college by the Sisters of the Sacred Heart in 1917, it was turned into an independent, co-educational institution by Elizabeth J. McCormack, Dr. Delaney's predecessor.
        After her resignation, a search committee offered the position to Dr. Delaney, who became the first non-Catholic and the first man to be installed as the college's president.
        Born in Philadelphia, Dr. Delaney graduated from Howard University, where he also earned a master's degree and a doctorate in chemistry. His graduate studies were interrupted in World War II while he worked on the Manhattan Project at the University of Chicago. In 1958, he became one of the first two students to receive doctorates at Howard.
        He conducted research and taught at what is now Morgan State University in Baltimore from 1948 to 1969, becoming a chemistry professor, department chairman and dean. Between then and his move to the Purchase campus, he was at SUNY from 1969 to 1971 and at the University of North Carolina from 1971 to 1974, where he was a vice president.
        After leaving Manhattanville he became a vice president of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities in Washington, retiring in 1987. After that, he served as acting president of colleges in Chicago and Maryland, retiring from Bowie State University last year.
        Mrs. Delaney, a native of North Carolina, graduated from what is now the Agricultural & Technical State University in Greensboro. She taught school in Baltimore from 1953 to 1968.
        The couple were married for 48 years. Their survivors include two sons, Doyle, of Maplewood, N.J., and Milton, of Athens, Ga.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
        Dr. Delaney is also survived by a brother, William of New York, and four sisters: Gertrude Smith of Roselle, N.J., Laura Simmons of Riviera Beach, Fla., Mildred D. Harris of Deltona, Fla., and Ethel D. Lee of Washington.
        Mrs. Delaney is also survived by her mother, Sophia J. East of Pilot Mountain, and three sisters: Joyce E. Parker of Ellicott City, Md., Betty E. Travis of Winston-Salem, N.C., and Coretha Gardner of Philadelphia.
      