
        Bard Pendleton Rogers, who encouraged people served by social-service agencies to become involved in their leadership, died on Aug. 1 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 83.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Until he suffered a stroke five years ago, he was active in community service with a number of voluntary agencies as a volunteer, board member and president. Mr. Rogers, whose first career was in capital ventures, was credited with applying his social and business contacts to strengthen the agencies' boards and provide leadership.
        He put his expertise in the administration and function of boards to work during 26 years with the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies. He served as liaison to about 6,000 board members of 250 charitable organizations and helped to bring about major changes in the composition of those boards.
        In 1971, he announced a program to train people from the communities served by the groups and to prepare them for board roles. His first recruits included people working in the court system, drug-addiction services and settlement houses. Knowledge of Inner City
        He said the voluntary agencies needed policy makers with experience in the inner city because the existing boards often were isolated from their clients.
        Among the agencies with which he was closely associated were Volunteer Services for Children, Rehabilitation Through Photography, and Green Chimneys Children's Services of Brewster, N.Y., and New York City. Earlier in his career, he served with the Brooklyn Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and the city's Youth Board, where he directed a delinquency-prevention program in Harlem and the Bronx.
        Born in Manhattan, Mr. Rogers was raised on the East Side and in Hyde Park, N.Y. He attended St. Bernard's School and graduated from the Groton School. He was a 1933 graduate of Harvard College.
        The next year, he graduated from Harvard Business School and joined his brother, Fred, in capital-venture activities.
        Dissatisfied, he returned to school and received a master's degree in social work from Columbia University in 1940. He began his career as a social worker by assisting poor women and their children in Family Court.
        His marriage in 1937 to Muriel Gordon ended in divorce.
        He is suvived by his companion of 26 years, Dr. Rita Lambek of Manhattan; a daughter, Bard Hamlen of Boston; a son, Richard P., of Manhattan; two sisters, May D. Rogers of East Hampton, L.I., and Catherine D. Smith of Rockville, Md., and three grandchildren.
      