
        Thomas R. Skelton, a lighting designer who won praise for his work in both dance and theater, died yesterday at his home in Akron, Ohio. He was 66.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Mickey Rolfe, his agent and friend.
        Mr. Skelton was equally at home in two very different art forms. His lighting brought extra texture and body and jewel-like color to dance stages in an era when dance lighting usually emphasized airy, open space. His theater designs often added a feeling of light and air to a stage picture while strengthening the dramatic quality of a production. Much Homework
        Mr. Skelton was known for closely analyzing scripts before he designed lighting: working with George Peppard on "Papa," a one-man show about Ernest Hemingway, he drew up five columns of cues, each based on a particular state of mind of the writer.
        He learned his craft by practicing it. Asked about his training, Mr. Skelton would usually say simply that he had served as an apprentice to Jean Rosenthal and had read Stanley McCandless's "Manual for Lighting the Stage." A genial, witty man, he asked his students at the Yale School of Drama to study everything from French to Picasso to cooking.
        "These are all things that make it possible to communicate with the other people you are going to be working with," he said in an interview in Theater Crafts magazine in 1989. "And I certainly don't think you should be studying amps and volts. I don't know very many designers who know very much about amps and volts. You hire an electrician who does."
        Mr. Skelton was born in North Bridgeton, Me., and graduated from Middlebury College. His first work was with dance companies. He designed the Joffrey Ballet's repertory lighting system, and created the lighting and the billowing film-screen set for Robert Joffrey's "Astarte" in 1967. One of his best-known assignments was Jerome Robbins's "Dances at a Gathering."
        Mr. Skelton also created lighting for American Ballet Theater and for nearly every major modern-dance choreographer, including Martha Graham, Paul Taylor and Jose Limon. He worked with the ballet choreographers Agnes de Mille, Sir Kenneth MacMillan, Antony Tudor and Heinz Poll, with whom he founded the Ohio Ballet.
        Mr. Skelton's most recent work on Broadway was last season for Lynn Redgrave's "Shakespeare for My Father." He was nominated for a Tony Award three times, for the lighting of "The Iceman Cometh," "Indians" and "All God's Chillun Got Wings." Among his other Broadway credits were "A Few Good Men," "Lena Horne: The Lady and Her Music," "Coco" and "Mame."
        He is survived by Mr. Poll, his companion for 30 years.
      