
        Thomas Laverne, a former New York State Senator from Monroe County who was an influential committee chairman, died on Monday at St. Mary's Hospital in Rochester. He was 88 and lived in Rochester.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Laverne was a "Rockefeller Republican" who spoke his mind even when he and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller differed on an issue, like Mr. Rockefeller's proposal for no-fault automobile insurance. Mr. Laverne served in the Senate in Albany from 1961 until 1972, when he was narrowly defeated by a more conservative contender in the Republican primary.
        He led the Senate Committee on Labor and Industry in the 1960's and the Committee on Education during his final term. He regained his party's nomination in 1974, but the voters of Rochester selected a Democrat that November.
        During his tenure, he also headed a number of special study panels. They included a joint committee on metropolitan and regional areas; a joint committee on public-employee relations, and a panel that in 1971, investigated the New York City Board of Education, whose bureaucracy he found had engaged in "chaotic fiscal, accounting and budgeting practices." National Awards
        He was responsible for passage of legislation in the areas of labor-management relations, industry, urban affairs, regional school administration and school financing. He served on several national governmental committees and earned two national awards for his legislative research.
        After leaving office, he became the state chairman of the March of Dimes for two years. He returned to Albany to work periodically as a lobbyist until his death.
        He graduated cum laude from the State University at Albany and became a teacher. He served in the Army in World War II, was wounded and received the Infantry Combat Badge.
        After the war, he went back to school and graduated from Cornell University Law School in 1948. He then opened a private practice in Rochester, his hometown, where he was active in professional and civic organizations.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Mary Saunders Laverne; four daughters, Kathleen Karafonda of Rochester, Jacqueline Laverne of Philadelphia, Carol-Jo Laverne of Manhattan and Robin Marie Capitella of Chicago; two sisters, Mary Lautrup of Placentia, Calif., and Frances Rotunno of Laverne, Calif., and five grandchilden.
        Correction:  August 20, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary on Aug. 11 about Thomas Laverne, a former Republican State Senator from Rochester, misstated his age. He was 77, not 88.
      