
        Jean-Dominique Fratoni, a casino operator who once vowed to make Nice the Las Vegas of the Riviera and who later fled France to avoid jail, died on Aug. 5 in Lugano, Switzerland. He was 71.
        The cause of death was cancer, the newspaper Nice-Matin reported.
        During the 1970's Mr. Fratoni, with the protection of a close friend, Mayor Jacques Medecin of Nice, was a powerful figure on the Cote d'Azur. At one time he controlled casinos in Sainte-Maxime, Saint-Raphael, Juan-les-Pins, Menton and in Nice itself, where he began by restoring to prominence the failing turn-of-the-century Casino Club.
        The press called Mr. Fratoni the Napoleon of the green tables; to friends in politics and in the milieu, as the Riviera's criminal underground is known, he was Jean-Do. A Battle Royale
        Nice in the 1970's was the resort of choice for wealthy emirs, Arab princes and high-rolling Iranians. The city and Mayor Medecin put up a new casino, the Ruhl, all chrome and glass, to cater to affluent visitors, and Mr. Fratoni was called upon to run it.
        Nearby was the rival Palais de la Mediterranee, once the most famous casino on the Riviera. According to the French police, Mr. Fratoni took control of the Palais by fraudulently acquiring the stock of the owners' 28-year-old daughter, Agnes LaRoux. She disappeared shortly afterward and was never found. Her family claimed she had been murdered.
        In 1978, after closing the Palais, Mr. Fratoni was convicted of gaining control of it through fraud and was sentenced to a year in prison. Trial testimony disclosed his wide connections with underworld figures on the Riviera, in Italy and in Corsica, where he was born.
        But before he was jailed he slipped out of France, going first to Switzerland in 1980, then to the Dominican Republic, Paraguay and Spain, then back to Switzerland. In 1987, Switzerland formally turned down the last of several French requests for Mr. Fratoni's extradition. A Dynasty Fades
        In his absence French courts convicted him of fraud three times, sentencing him to more than 10 years in prison and imposing fines of hundreds of millions of dollars. French authorities closed Casino Ruhl for a time in 1979, claiming it owned $25 million in back taxes.
        Even as a fugitive, Mr. Fratoni was a strong influence in Nice. In the 1980's Casino Ruhl, back in business, was run by his son-in-law, his daughter and a group of his friends. "It's true that I help them a little, that I advise them," he said during a television interview from Switzerland.
        But times had changed; the Iranians were gone and even the Arab princes came less often. The casinos fell on hard times. So did the once-omnipotent Medecin dynasty.
        Jacques Medecin, who had succeeded his father as Mayor in 1966, was closely identified with the French right. When President Francois Mitterrand, a Socialist, came to power in 1981, Mr. Medecin moved further to the right, aligning himself with Jean-Marie le Pen of the National Front.  Turning Down a Reprieve
        In 1990, anticipating charges against him, Jacques Medecin abruptly resigned and fled to Uruguay. Last year the Uruguayan police jailed him pending extradition negotiations.
        Two years later the French Government suspended all sentences imposed against Mr. Fratoni. But with his patron in prison in Uruguay, he elected to remain in Switzerland.
        He reportedly had asked before he died that his ashes be spread over the village of Cuttoli-Corticchiato, his birthplace in southern Corsica.
      