
        Jerome Minskoff, a real-estate developer, theater owner and Broadway producer, died on Saturday in London. He was 78 and had homes in Manhattan and London.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Steven.
        Mr. Minskoff was born and reared in the Bronx. After earning a business degree at Lehigh University and a law degree at New York University, he joined his father's real-estate business, Sam Minskoff & Sons.
        In 1966, the company bought the old Astor Hotel in Times Square; in 1968, after razing the hotel, the company built a 54-story office tower on the site, One Astor Plaza. In 1973, the Minskoff Theater was opened in the building, with a hit revival of "Irene," starring Debbie Reynolds. Mr. Minskoff was one of the play's three producers. He also produced "Can-Can," "Noises Off," "Big Deal" and "Sweet Charity" at the Minskoff. Produced Films, Too
        In 1969, Mr. Minskoff formed Philip Waxman-Jerome Minskoff Productions, which produced the films "Tell Them Willie Boy Is Here" and "The Old Man's Place." In 1986, he joined Donald Weldon as an owner of Triumph Theater Productions in London. That company's productions included "Sweet Bird of Youth," with Lauren Bacall, and "The Apple Cart," with Peter O'Toole.
        Mr. Minskoff served as the president of the Bronx Lebanon Hospital and as the chairman of the Sam and Esther Minskoff Cultural Center in Manhattan. He was a governor of the League of American Theaters and Producers, and he helped found the Albert Einstein School of Medicine. He also served on the board of the Alvin Ailey Dance Company and was a member of the Times Square Development Council.
        He received the Torch of Liberty Award from the Harrison division of the Anti-Defamation League.
        In addition to his son, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife, Maggie; two brothers, Leo, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Myron, of Manhattan; two daughters, Amy, of Manhattan, and Patricia, of London, and a grandson.
      