
        Elias Canetti, a novelist, playwright and cultural historian who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1981, died on Saturday in Zurich. He was 89 and had homes in London and Zurich.
        On Wednesday, he was buried next to James Joyce.
        Mr. Canetti, a Bulgarian who wrote in German, spent much of his creative life analyzing the individual and the social and political forces that weighed against him in the 20th century. He first wrote on the subject in "Crowds and Power," published in 1935, just two years after Hitler came to power. Mr. Canetti returned to the theme in his old age in a multi-volume autobiography that traces his, and 20th-century Europe's, artistic and intellectual development.
        Mr. Canetti was born to a family of Sephardic Jews in the port city of Ruschuk in what is now Bulgaria. When he was 6, the family moved to Manchester, England, and a year later, after Mr. Canetti's father had died, the family moved to Vienna, and later to Zurich and Frankfurt. Mr. Canetti grew up speaking German, English, French and Bulgarian.
        To please his mother, he earned a doctorate in chemistry from the University of Vienna, but he had set his sights on becoming a writer. He made an auspicious beginning with the novel "Auto-da-Fe," the story of a reclusive scholar whose loutish wife forces him out of his apartment into the real world, where he undergoes degradation and torment before setting fire to himself and his books. The novel was perceived as an attack on fascism and was banned in Germany. Refugee From the Nazis
        Mr. Canetti wrote two plays, "The Wedding" and "The Comedy of Vanity,"before fleeing first to Paris and eventually to London ahead of the Nazis. While taking part in a violent demonstration in Vienna in 1927, he had become fascinated by the nature of crowds, and in London he began researching "Crowds and Power," drawing on folklore, myth and anthropology to explain mass psychology and the allure of dictators. The book, which Mr. Canetti called "my life's work," was not completed until 1960. While writing it, he kept notebooks and journals that were later published as "The Human Province" (1972).
        In addition to several plays, his other works included the books "Voices of Marrakesh" (1967), "The Conscience of Words" (1979), "Earwitness: Fifty Characters" (1982) and "Kafka's Other Trial" (1988), "The Secret Heart of the Clock" (1989) and "The Agony of Flies" (1994).
        The literary project that consumed his later years was an autobiography that recounted his spiritual and intellectual coming of age, and his encounters with such seminal artists as Bertolt Brecht, Karl Kraus, Isaac Babel and Georg Grosz. The first three volumes were "The Tongue Set Free" (1979), "The Torch in My Ear" (1982) and "The Play of the Eyes" (1986). He completed a fourth volume of memoirs, as yet untitled, that will be published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
        He is survived by his daughter, Johanna.
        Correction:  August 20, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about the writer Elias Canetti misstated the years in which two of his books were published in English. "Crowds and Power" was published in 1962 and "Kafka's Other Trial" was published in 1974.
      