
        Jack Sharkey, the bantering, cocksure boxer who captured the world heavyweight championship in an unlikely victory over Max Schmeling in 1932 and relinquished it a year and eight days later in an even less likely loss to Primo Carnera, died on Wednesday at the Beverly, Mass., hospital. He was 91 years old and had been the oldest former heavyweight champion.
        His family said the cause of death was respiratory arrest.
        For all the glory of his yearlong reign as champion, Sharkey's entire 13-year career was studded with bright-line footnotes to the Golden Age of Boxing.
        Among other things, his battered body served as the lone bridge between successive eras. He was at once the only man to have faced two sets of champions who never fought each other, Jack Dempsey and Schmeling and Dempsey and Joe Louis. Sharkey-Dempsey in 1927
        Partly because he had changed his Lithuanian name to win acceptance in the Irish-dominated boxing world of Boston and partly because he was a bit better at boasting than he was at boxing, Sharkey was as hated as Dempsey was beloved when the two faced each other at Yankee Stadium on July 21, 1927.
        Through the first six rounds, the resounding boos that had greeted Sharkey's introduction were largely stilled as it became painfully obvious that the 32-year-old Dempsey, who had lost the championship to Gene Tunney the previous September, was no match for the 24-year-old Sharkey.
        Then in the seventh, Dempsey, swinging furiously, landed a low right and Sharkey, clutching his midriff, turned to the referee to complain. While he was looking away, Dempsey landed a haymaker that knocked Sharkey into the middle of the previous morning. After he revived, Sharkey reminded his manager that he was to fight Dempsey that night. No Apologies From Dempsey
        For Dempsey, the knockout was the last victory of his career, and he did not apologize for it.
        When asked why he had hit a man who wasn't looking, Dempsey replied, "What was I supposed to do, mail him a letter?"
        Sharkey's first title fight also featured a famous low blow and his last produced an even more famous complaint.
        On June 12, 1930, fighting Schmeling for the title that had been vacant since Tunney's retirement two years earlier, Sharkey landed a low blow in the fourth round, knocking Schmeling out, but giving the German the title by foul.
        Within months, New York State boxing authorities abolished the foul rule. From then on, the penalty for a low blow was a loss of round and any resulting knockouts were allowed to stand.
        Two years later, after fighting Mickey Walker to a famous draw and winning a decision over Carnera in 1931, Sharkey fought Schmeling again, on June 21, 1932, winning the title in a controversial split decision that drew boos from the crowd and a legendary lament from Schmeling's manager, Joe Jacobs, who shouted into the radio microphone, "We wuz robbed." Knocked Out by Canera
        Sharkey did not defend his title until a year later, when Carnera, a half-foot taller at 6-6, landed a stunning right-hand uppercut that knocked Sharkey out in the sixth round.
        After two more losses, Sharkey retired, but made a comeback in late 1935 that lasted until Aug. 18, 1936, when he faced a young boxer named Joe Louis, who had been knocked out by Schmeling just two months earlier. Sharkey lasted three rounds, and said later that Louis had been the fiercest opponent he had ever faced.
        Joseph Paul Cukoschay was born in Binghamton, N.Y., on Oct. 26, 1902, and as a child in an immigrant household, grew up speaking Lithuanian. While getting a start as a boxer in Boston, he was persuaded to change his name and did so in honor of two boxers he admired, Jack Dempsey and Tom Sharkey.
        After retiring with 14 knockouts in a record of 38 victories, 13 defeats, 3 draws and 1 no-decision, Sharkey served as a referr in boxing and wrestling, and lived for many years in Epping, N.H., where he indulged his interests in hunting, fishing and recalling the old days. Inducted Into Hall of Fame
        When he was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame earlier this year, Sharkey was too frail to attend the ceremony, but he was well represented by his son Jack Sharkey Jr., a grandson, Jack Sharkey 3d, and a great-grandson, Jack Sharkey 4th.
        In addition to his son, Sharkey, whose wife died years ago, is survived by two daughters, Dorothy McDonald and Marilyn Shea, 14 grandchildren, 21 great-grandchildren.
      