
        Linus C. Pauling, a brilliant chemist and an untiring political activist who received one Nobel Prize for chemistry and another for peace, died on Friday at his ranch in the Big Sur area of Northern California. He was 93 years old.
        The cause was cancer, said Steve Lawson, chief executive officer of the Linus Pauling Institute of Science and Medicine in Palo Alto.
        Dr. Pauling received the prize for chemistry in 1954, as a result of his research into the nature of the chemical bond, the force that gives atoms the cohesiveness to form the molecules that in turn become the basis of all physical matter.
        In 1962, at age 61, Dr. Pauling received the Nobel Peace Prize. The award's citation acclaimed him for his work since 1946 "not only against the testing of nuclear weapons, not only against the spread of these armaments, not only against their very use, but against all warfare as a means of solving international conflicts."
        Dr. Pauling was also said to have provided powerful impetus to others in achieving what many came to regard as the medical discovery of the century. That was the determination of the structure of DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, the genetic material in all living organisms.
        To those who eventually won the race to solve DNA, Dr. Pauling was seen at the time as the closest rival. Had he been the victor, he, no doubt, would have been the recipient of a third Nobel Prize.
        Dr. Pauling's scientific genius was accompanied by a strong penchant for dissent. He touched off a debate among scientists in his later years, for example, by vigorously advocating that vitamin C, if taken in large-enough doses, would build up the immune systems in humans and protect them against infectious diseases. In the 1950's, he was a primary shaper of the antinuclear-testing movement and he was actively involved in the antiwar movement in the 1960's.
        By the time Dr. Pauling received the chemistry prize at the age of 53, he had long been recognized as a chemist's chemist. By the age of 30, he had already published 50 papers based on original chemical research and had risen to a full professorship at the California Institute of Technology. His years at the institute, from 1927 to 1963, marked the most productive period of his professional career.
        In 1931, when Dr. Pauling received the American Chemical Society's Award in Pure Chemistry, Arthur A. Noyes, president of the Gates Chemical Laboratory at Pasadena, Calif., prophetically called the young scientist "a rising star, who may yet win the Nobel Prize."
        Dr. Pauling's grasp of the nature of chemical bonds and molecular structure was so formidable that Albert Einstein, whom he met that year, said he would have to "brush up on the subject" of chemical bonds before again attempting to engage the young Dr. Pauling in a conversation. Book Wins Worldwide Acclaim
        In 1939 Dr. Pauling published "The Nature of the Chemical Bond," a book that won worldwide recognition among scientific researchers as a landmark work.
        Throughout the 1930's, Dr. Pauling used quantum mechanics, the theoretical framework used to explain the structure of the atom and the motion of atomic particles, to investigate chemical bonding. He asserted that the "resonance," or internal vibrations of atoms, gave molecules their cohesiveness.
        While Dr. Pauling was winning international plaudits as a theoretical chemist, he was also developing a reputation as a scientist with a social conscience. But some critics believed he sometimes overlooked national concerns in advocating social policies and in other actions.
        In World War II he ignored the widespread resentment against Japanese-Americans and hired a young man whose parents were born in Japan as a gardener for his home in Pasadena, Calif. Vandals later defaced the house with anti-Japanese slogans.
        By 1949 Dr. Pauling had declared himself an advocate of peace and helped organize a Congress for Peace, held in Mexico City. His colleagues in this venture included Dr. W.E.B. DuBois; Paul Robeson, the singer and actor; Charlie Chaplin, the comedian, and O. John Rogge, a former assistant United States Attorney General. The State Department denounced the group as "Moscow-directed," asserting that it was "devoted to providing an apologia for the Moscow point of view."
        The next year, Dr. Pauling joined with seven other prominent Americans to start a "peace crusade," a forerunner of peace movements that were to win the support of many Americans two decades later. In explaining his action, Dr. Pauling said that the possibility of war was becoming greater "with the continued increase in man's powers of destruction" and that "it is the duty of every American to work for a peaceful solution of international arguments."
        Dr. Pauling incurred the suspicion of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, the Wisconsin Republican who was chairman of Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations.
        Senator McCarthy accused Dr. Pauling of having a "well nigh incredible" record of membership in Communist front organizations. Dr. Pauling denied under oath that he was ever a Communist.
        Partly as a result of the Senator's attack, the State Department denied Dr. Pauling a passport in April 1952, holding that it would be contrary to national interest to permit Dr. Pauling to travel abroad. Dr. Pauling said the State Department informed him that his passport application had been denied because of the suspicion that he was a Communist.
        The suspicion that Dr. Pauling might be sympathetic to the Soviet Union persisted, even though his theory of resonance had made him a persona non grata in the Soviet Union, where Stalin felt the theory was incompatible with Communist ideology.
        By July 1952, after a number of attempts, Dr. Pauling managed to obtain a "limited passport" for travel to Britain and France.
        In 1954, Dr. Pauling received an unrestricted passport so he could travel to Stockholm to receive his first Nobel Prize.
        After returning from Stockholm, Dr. Pauling was as outspoken as ever. He castigated the Government for its treatment of J. Robert Oppenheimer, a key scientist in the development of the atomic bomb, whose security clearance had been withdrawn because of concerns about his patriotism after he voiced objections to the Government's crash program to develop a hydrogen bomb.
        Throughout the 1950's, Dr. Pauling seemed a scientist in perpetual motion, pursuing research in such areas as possible biochemical aspects of schizophrenia, the nature of nucleic acids, and hereditary faults in body chemistry, sickle-cell anemia, that were caused by abnormal molecules.
        In the early 1950's, Dr. James D. Watson and Sir Francis Crick, were constantly looking over their shoulders at the body of the research of Linus Pauling with a mixture of admiration and apprehension. Dr. Watson and Sir Francis were at the time feverishly trying to determine that structure that is crucial to the construction of all living cells -- DNA -- and Dr. Pauling was pursuing the same goal.
        Writing years later in "The Double Helix," a book about the discovery, Dr. Watson described Dr. Pauling's presentation of work, showing, in part, the helical structure of proteins.
        "Pauling's talk was done with his usual flair," Dr. Watson wrote. "The words came out as if he had been in show business all his life. A curtain kept his model hidden until near the end of his lecture, when he proudly unveiled his latest creation. Then, with his eyes twinkling, Linus explained the specific characteristics . . .  that made his model uniquely beautiful.
        "This show, like all of his dazzling performances, delighted the younger students in attendance. There was no one like Linus in all the world. The combination of his prodigious mind and his infectious grin was unbeatable.
        "Several fellow professors, however, watched this performance with mixed feelings. . . . If only he had shown a little humility."
        Though Dr. Pauling's earlier protein research had laid groundwork for the DNA discovery, his theories in that area did not ultimately prove correct. Dr. Watson's and Sir Francis' proposition, that the basic genetic strands of DNA take the shape of a double helix, was validated in 1953, and they were awarded the Nobel Prize nine years later.
        All the while, Dr. Pauling was also pursuing the cause of peace. He pressed his attack on the pointlessness of war and what he regarded as a major reason for the persistence of war: the hypocrisy and short-sightedness of the world's politicians.
        After the McCarthy era began to wane, Dr. Pauling remained sensitive to suggestions that he was politically radical.
        His admirers said any implication that Dr. Pauling was somehow anti- American was unfair, regarding him, instead, as the quintessential American. As for radicalism, they contended that, as the son of an Oregon druggist, he was inculcated with the values of small-town life in the Far West and was at heart a traditionalist.
        Linus Carl Pauling was born Feb. 28, 1901, in Portland, Ore. His independent streak and his insistence on standing by his beliefs became apparent early in life. He never received a real high school diploma because he dropped out of Washington High School in Portland as a form of protest against taking courses he regarded as pointless. But he gained entrance to Oregon Agricultural College without a high-school diploma, and the young man majoring in chemical engineering was quickly recognized as a prodigy.
        He received his bachelor of science degree in 1922, and the following year he married Ava Helen Miller. Two years later he received his Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology.
        Around 1960, Dr. Pauling began a campaign to obtain the signatures of scientists opposed to nuclear testing. A total of 11,021 scientists in 49 countries signed the petitions.
        The tone of the petition and its success angered some people in Government and in 1960, Dr. Pauling was subpoenaed to testify before the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee "on Communist participation in, or support of, a propaganda campaign against nuclear testing."
        "I don't know anything" about Communist activity," Dr. Pauling said, emphasizing that his opposition to nuclear testing was part of his opposition to nuclear war and his long-standing concern about the biological effects of radioactivity.
        When Dr. Pauling won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1962, it was the first time anyone had won two Nobel prizes since Marie Curie did it in 1903 and 1911, and unlike Mme. Curie, Dr. Pauling won his alone, not sharing it with another scientist, as she did.
        The honor apparently moved Washington High, the school that had denied Dr. Pauling a diploma in his youth, to award him an honorary diploma.
        He left the California Institute of Technology in 1963, and went to the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions. In 1967 he moved to the University of California at San Diego and remained there until 1969, when he switched to Stanford University.
        After his 70th birthday, when he was forced to retire from Stanford, he set up the Linus Pauling Institute of Science and Medicine. His collaborator in the venture was Dr. Arthur B. Robinson, one of his former students at Cal Tech. He thus began a phase of his life that proved to be as controversial as his earlier periods of political activism.
        A scientific debate was touched off by his book "Vitamin C and the Common Cold," published in 1970, in which he proposed that massive doses of vitamin C could prevent the common cold.
        The debate droned on through the 1970's, with some scientists supporting Dr. Pauling and others saying that his advice was speculative. By the middle of the decade, a number of controlled experiments had found no cold-preventive benefits from vitamin C.
        Dr. Pauling, with characteristic independence, then elaborated on his original thesis and suggested that the vitamin might also be of help in treating cancer. This touched off still more spirited response from the scientific community.
        In 1979 a report compiled by a research team from the Mayo Clinic said that experiments on 150 patients with advanced cancer showed no benefits from vitamin C. The findings were published in The New England Journal of Medicine.
      