
        Luigi Chinetti Sr., a race driver who was the first importer of Ferrari automobiles into North America and an essential figure in the early success of the Italian automaker, died Wednesday at home in Greenwich, Conn., at the age of 93.
        Mr. Chinetti died of natural causes, said his son, Luigi Chinetti Jr.
        Mr. Chinetti (pronounced ki-NET-ti) was born in Milan on July 17, 1901. After an apprenticeship in his father's shop, Mr. Chinetti became a technician for Alfa Romeo. He established a close friendship with Enzo Ferrari while the two drove for Alfa's racing team. Mr. Chinetti was one of the drivers of the winning Alfa at the 24-hour race in Le Mans, France, in 1932 and once again two years later, plugging a leaky fuel tank with chewing gum.
        Before World War II, Mr. Chinetti came to the United States, barely escaping the Fascists -- rescuing as well Rene Dreyfus, the French driver who opened Le Chanteclair, a Manhattan restaurant. Mr. Chinetti then worked as a machinist and mechanic at a Rolls-Royce dealership in Manhattan. Sports Cars Over Tools
        In 1946, he became an American citizen, but soon returned to Europe, where he renewed acquaintances with Mr. Ferrari, who was thinking about starting a machine-tool factory. Mr. Chinetti urged him to build sports cars instead, and when Mr. Ferrari asked how he would sell such vehicles, Mr. Chinetti promised to take care of that.
        Mr. Chinetti opened a dealership in Paris and used his racing skills -- winning a 12-hour race in France in a Ferrari -- to establish the nascent carbuilder's reputation.
        An even more significant racing victory would soon follow. Mr. Ferrari brought one of his 166MM models to Le Mans in 1949, where Mr. Chinetti, driving all but 30 minutes of the 24-hour classic, took it to victory, the first at Le Mans for a Ferrari.
        The cachet of that victory no doubt helped Mr. Chinetti when he soon after opened the first Ferrari dealership in North America, on West 55th Street in Manhattan. He would later move his dealership to West 19th Street, then to 11th Avenue and finally to Greenwich, Conn. In 1951, Mr. Chinetti won the Pan American Road Race, a 1,932-mile race through Mexico, in a Ferrari with the Italian Piero Taruffi. That was Mr. Chinetti's last major driving success. Successful Racing Team
        Even after retiring as a driver, he stayed active in racing through his North American Racing Team, which raced Ferraris worldwide and often was as successful as Ferrari's official factory team. It was his entry, driven by Jochen Rindt of Austria and Masten Gregory of the United States, that won the Le Mans classic in 1965. The triumph gave Mr. Chinetti a role in Ferrari's first and what remains their last victory at Le Mans.
        Phil Hill, a former Ferrari team driver who in 1961 became the first American to win the Formula One world championship, recalled that it was Mr. Chinetti who helped launch his career. In 1951, Mr. Chinetti supplied him with a repaired Ferrari that one of Mr. Chinetti's customers had crashed at Le Mans.
        "He has always been renowned for many decades, going back into the 1930's, for his tenacity in getting young drivers started," Mr. Hill said. "He will be remembered by many, many people who owe their successes to him."
        Among those are Dan Gurney, another American who starred in international racing, and Ricardo and Pedro Rodriguez, Mexican brothers. Mario Andretti, the only other American to win the Formula One championship, also credits Mr. Chinetti with boosting his career.
        Mr. Chinetti sold his Greenwich dealership in 1977, ending his role as a Ferrari dealer. By then, the United States market -- the largest source among individual countries of Ferrari sales -- was firmly established. Luigi Chinetti Jr. operates Luigi Chinetti Motors, which designs and builds racing cars.
        Mr. Chinetti is survived by his son, who lives in Stuart, Fla.
      