
        Theodore Conrad, who distilled modern architecture as a model maker and defended historic architecture as a preservationist, died yesterday at his home in Jersey City. He was 84.
        He died of congestive heart failure, said a friend, Colin Egan.
        In 1931, when he was a student at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, Mr. Conrad began making architectural models. He was a pioneer in the use of Plexiglas and metal for models, rather than the traditional wood and cardboard. And he earned increasingly high-profile commissions.
        Many modern landmarks assumed their earliest three-dimensional form in Mr. Conrad's Jersey City studio. It was one of his models that gave Jacqueline Kennedy the first glimpse of what her husband's grave would look like at Arlington National Cemetery.
        From his studio, he could see the final versions of his work defining the skyline of Manhattan -- "no bigger than the model at that distance and scarcely more substantial looking," The New Yorker said in a 1956 profile. Modeler of New York
        "Well, there's Metropolitan Life -- I did that," Mr. Conrad said in 1981, while surveying the skyline across the Hudson River. "Chase Manhattan. You can't see the Museum of Modern Art -- it's too low. Seagram Building is covered up now. But there's Rockefeller Center, Equitable Life. And of course I built all of lower Manhattan below Houston Street. That's downstairs."
        On his model of the Air Force Academy in Colorado, he placed 10,000 airmen, each one-quarter of an inch high. At 16 feet, the Seagram Building model had to be taken to New York over the George Washington Bridge, as it would not fit through the Lincoln Tunnel.
        Most recently, Mr. Conrad was best known as a preservationist. In the late 1960's, he led a citizens committee to save the abandoned 60-year-old Hudson County Courthouse, which was threatened with demolition. The group succeeded in having the property listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 1970. In the 1980's, it was restored and returned to civic use.
        He was also involved in the fight over Loew's Jersey Theater, a 3,200-seat Baroque movie palace on Journal Square in Jersey City that a developer planned to demolish. It was acquired by Jersey City in 1993 and Mr. Conrad, then 83, was present for the 2 A.M. vote by the City Council. Its restoration is being overseen by Jersey City Economic Development Corporation.
        Mr. Conrad is survived by his wife, Ruth; two daughters, Doris C. Brown of Jersey City, and Carin Lewis of Berwick, Pa., and three grandchildren.
      