
        Leo Lerman, an editor, writer and critic who was associated with Conde Nast magazines for more than 50 years, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was pulmonary failure, said Gray Foy, his companion.
        A man of broad knowledge and interests, Mr. Lerman achieved something close to legendary status at Conde Nast for his ability to spot trends and topical subjects, a talent he called his "itch." He was also renowned for his extensive network of famous friends in the entertainment industry and the arts, who frequently gathered at his apartment on upper Lexington Avenue, which he established as a kind of salon beginning in the 1940's. Beginning With Theater
        Mr. Lerman was born in Harlem. After attending public schools in the city, he studied on a scholarship for two years at the Feagin School of Dramatic Arts on West 57th Street. For much of the 1930's, he worked as an actor, stage manager, script reader and designer, initially at Grossinger's hotel theater in the Catskills and later on Broadway. He took an acting role in "Creeping Fire" (1935) and he was the stage manager of "Behind the Red Lights" (1937) and "Places, Please" (1937). From 1938 to 1939 he was the president of the Scenic Artists of America's costume division.
        Mr. Lerman's first article for Vogue, on the lives of five notable women in Renaissance Italy, appeared in the issue of March 15, 1942. For the next several years, Mr. Lerman contributed many articles on theater and the arts to Vogue and House and Garden. In the early 1940's, he was also the children's book editor at The Saturday Review of Literature, and a consultant and contributor at Harper's Bazaar.
        In 1948, determined to land an editing job at Mademoiselle, he invited the magazine's editor to a celebrity-packed party at his apartment. He was hired on the spot. Mr. Lerman worked at Mademoiselle as a contributing editor until 1974. (The magazine was bought by Conde Nast in 1960.)
        He was named a consulting feature editor of Vogue in 1972 and in 1978 was made the magazine's feature editor. While at Vogue, he published the work of such writers as Rebecca West, Milan Kundera, Anthony Hecht, Peter Gay and Iris Murdoch. In 1983, he took over as editor in chief of Vanity Fair during the magazine's most turbulent period. Nine months later he was named editorial adviser of Conde Nast.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Lerman wrote prolifically for many publications. In the 1940's and early 50's, he wrote the program notes to the New York Philharmonic Society's Young People's Concerts, and in the 50's and 60's, he frequently reviewed books for The New York Times Book Review. From 1957 to 1967, he wrote the At the Theater column for Dance magazine, reviewing dance in the legitimate theater. For Playbill, where he was a senior editor from 1950 to 1982, he wrote a column called the Playbill Diarist.
        Mr. Lerman wrote three books, "Leonardo da Vinci: Artist and Scientist" (1940), "Michelangelo: A Renaissance Profile" (1942) and "The Museum: 100 Years and the Metropolitan Museum of Art" (1969), which won the Lotus Club Award that year. At the time of his death, he was at work on a memoir for Random House, "Call It Friendship, Call It Love."
        In addition to Mr. Foy, his companion of 47 years, he is survived by a brother, Jerry, of West Palm Beach, Fla.
      