
        Herb Rosenzweig, a former welfare administrator for New York City, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        In 1970, Mr. Rosenzweig became one of a number of former "whiz kids" in Robert S. McNamara's Defense Department to be recruited by the city's Human Resources Administration.
        The agency was being reorganized, and Mr. Rosenzweig and other young Pentagon veterans were taken on as experts in business management. Mr. Rosenzweig became assistant administrator for planning and budgeting. He later served as deputy administrator for income maintenance.
        When he temporarily left the Human Resources Administration in 1981, he was criticized for suggesting that it might not be economical to pursue every suspected case of welfare fraud. Most of those cases, he said, were so minor that it cost the agency more in legal expenses to prosecute a case than the little it could eventually collect.
        Mr. Rosenzweig then worked as a private consultant until the Human Resources Administration rehired him for a brief stint in 1985. This time he worked as director of welfare programs and executive deputy administrator for income maintenance.
        He was born in Long Beach, L.I., and graduated with a degree in electrical engineering from City College. He worked for six years for the Rand Corporation in Santa Monica, Calif., and received a master's in philosophy at the University of California at Los Angeles.
        His work at Rand led him to the Pentagon, where he worked in the office for systems analysis and was head of the tactical air programs division. When he was ready to leave the Defense Department, the Rand Corporation recommended him to Mayor John V. Lindsay.
        After he finally left the city agency, he traveled the world. Most recently he made documentaries and videos.
        Mr. Rosenzweig is survived by his wife, Norma Lauring, an artist; a son, Joseph, of Philadelphia, and a daughter, Emily Rosenzweig of Manhattan.
      