
        Hugh W. Culverhouse, who owned the Tampa Bay Buccaneers since they were awarded a National Football League franchise in 1974, died yesterday at the Louisiana Regional Medical Center in New Orleans. He was 75 years old.
        The team said he died of heart failure after a recurrence of lung cancer 20 months ago. He had been undergoing experimental treatment for a week at the New Orleans hospital.
        Mr. Culverhouse was a tax lawyer, real-estate developer, business executive and notary public. Fortune magazine estimated his worth at $360 million. He had given millions of dollars to charities; and the University of Alabama, his alma mater, said he was its largest individual donor ever, with gifts totaling $12.6 million. Headed League Committee
        Fellow N.F.L. club owners had high regard for his business sense and made him the chairman of the league's finance committee. He led that influential group during the player strikes of 1982 and 1987.
        "He's one of the most formidable people I ever came up against," said Gene Upshaw, the executive director of the N.F.L. Players Association. "He was a real rock at the negotiating table. At times, the whole league seemed to flow from this one guy. I think he loved it."
        However, Mr. Culverhouse's frugally run team was a chronic loser. After losing its first 26 games, it somehow fell one game short of reaching the Super Bowl after the 1979 season. Since then, losing seasons have been the norm. The Buccaneers finished last year with a 5-11 record, their 11th consecutive season with 10 or more losses.
        In 1990, Mr. Culverhouse relinquished day-to-day operation of the team. That is now handled by his daughter, Gay Culverhouse Smith, who holds a doctorate in special education from Columbia; his son, Hugh Jr., a lawyer, and Stephen F. Story, a law partner. In 1992, the daughter became the team president. The football decisions are made by Rich McKay, the vice president for football administration, and Sam Wyche, the head coach. Gave Up Control of Team
        Last year, to avoid potential family quarreling and tax problems when he died, Mr. Culverhouse turned over control of the team to three trustees -- Mr. Story; Fred Cone, a former law partner in Jacksonville, Fla., and Jack Donlan, a former executive director of the N.F.L. Management Council.
        In recent years, there had been rumors that the team would be sold or moved or both. But Mr. Story said in a statement, "Our total focus is on building a franchise of which Tampa Bay can be proud."
        Mr. Culverhouse is survived by his wife, the former Joy McCann, their son and daughter and six grandchildren.
      