
        Ralph E. Becker, a Washington lawyer and former ambassador long active in Republican politics, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Hospital. He was 87 and a Washington resident.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Becker served President Gerald R. Ford as Ambassador to Honduras in 1976-77 and helped sponsor an Antarctic expedition in the 1960's. He helped to create the National Center for the Performing Arts, of which he was a founding trustee and the general counsel during the Eisenhower Administration. It later became the John F. Kennedy Center and he wrote an illustrated history titled "Miracle on the Potomac: The Kennedy Center from the Beginning" (1989).
        An avid collector of political memorabilia dating to 1790, Mr. Becker amassed ribbons, buttons, prints, cartoons, broadsheets and brochures. In 1961, he donated the material, the Ralph E. Becker Collection of Political Americana, to the Smithsonian Institution. In 1992, with Mr. Becker's financial support, the Smithsonian published "Hail to the Candidate: Presidential Campaigns from Banners to Broadcast." Mr. Becker contributed a chapter recounting his experiences as a collector.
        Ralph Elihu Becker was born on Jan. 29, 1907, in New York City, the son of a tailor from Lithuania. His mother was from Minsk, Belorussia, now Belarus. While in high school, he clerked for a law firm and the experience encouraged him to enter the profession. He attended night courses at City College and New York University and earned his law degree at St. John's University Law School in 1928.
        Starting in the late 1920's, he helped to organize the New York Young Republicans and became increasingly engaged in Republican politics while working as a trial lawyer in Westchester County in the 1930's. He was a delegate to the party's 1936 convention.
        In World War II, he served in the Judge Advocate Corps. Attached to the 30th Division, he landed in Normandy shortly after D-Day and subsequently received a Bronze Star, along with decorations from the Belgian, Dutch and French Governments.
        Discharged as a captain, he arrived in Washington and became chairman of the Young Republican National Committee. He was an early supporter of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower for the Republican Presidential nomination in 1952, and he campaigned for Mr. Eisenhower against the Democratic candidate, Adlai E. Stevenson.
        After the war he started a wide-ranging general law practice in Washington. Among his specialties were trucking regulations and aerospace law, an interest he developed after the Soviet Union's launching of Sputnik touched off the space race. Formerly a partner, he had been of counsel to the firm of Landfield & Becker since 1979.
        He was a sponsor of the Antarctic-South Pole Operation Deep Freeze in 1963, for which a mountain in Antarctica was named after him. He joined an expedition over the Arctic Circle to Spitsbergen, an archipelago in the Arctic Glacial Sea, and brought back two polar bears as a gift to the National Zoo.
        His philanthropies and cultural interests included the Wolf Trap Foundation, Friends of the National Zoo, the Supreme Court and Capitol historical societies, and the Society for a More Beautiful National Capital, organized by Lady Bird Johnson in the 1960's. At his death, he was honorary chairman of the Voice Foundation for people with speech impairments.
        Mr. Becker is survived by his wife of 44 years, Ann Watters Becker; three sons, William W., of Washington, Donald L., of Belmont, Mass., and Ralph E. Jr., of Salt Lake City; a daughter, Prima Deodhar of Long Island City, Queens; four grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      