
        Harry Rosenblatt, one of the last survivors of the Jewish Legion of World War I, which fought with the British against the Turks in Palestine, died Wednesday at Victory Memorial Hospital in Brooklyn. A Brooklyn resident, he was 101 years old.
        The cause was heart and kidney failure, his family said. Other veterans of the expeditionary force survive in Israel, but, according to the family, Mr. Rosenblatt was believed to be the only survivor in the United States.
        Mr. Rosenblatt was born in Rovno, Ukraine, in 1893, came to New York at the age of 17, and became a tailor. In 1916, he heard a speech in Union Square by Vladimir Jabotinsky, the Zionist organizer, who called for volunteers to join the British and help to wrest control of Palestine from the Ottoman Empire. Mr. Jabotinsky, a main architect of the volunteer force, embraced the philosophy that if Jews were to claim a homeland in Palestine, only Jews must play an active part in creating it. 5,000 Young Zionists
        Mr. Rosenblatt enlisted in the British Army that year and, once in Palestine, was assigned to Company A, 39th Battalion Royal Fusiliers. It was one of three battalions of what became known as the "Jewish Legion." It swelled to some 5,000 young Zionists from all over the world by the end of the war. David Ben-Gurion, the chief architect and first Prime Minister of Israel, served in its ranks, but volunteers from the United States formed its largest single contingent
        In June 1917, Gen. Edmund Allenby took command of the Egyptian Expeditionary Force, including the Jewish Legion. He decisively defeated the Turks at Gaza in November 1917 and captured Jerusalem the following month. Mr. Rosenblatt was among the troops entering the city, and his picture and biography are on display in the Museum of the Israeli Defense Forces.
        He returned to New York and tailoring at war's end and became a citizen in 1923. He also set up his own tailor shop in Brooklyn and kept it open until he turned 90.
        He is survived by his wife of 70 years, Helen Satz Rosenblatt; two sons, Franklin and Arthur, both of Manhattan; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      