
        Prince Louis Ferdinand of Prussia, the man who would have been Kaiser if Germany still had a throne, died on Sunday in the north German city of Bremen. He was 86 and had a home outside Bremen.
        He died after a long illness, said The Associated Press, which did not immediately report where in Bremen he had died.
        Louis Ferdinand was personally picked by his grandfather, Kaiser Wilhelm II, to become the head of their family, the House of Hohenzollern. Kaiser Wilhelm lost the throne of Germany after World War I and went into exile in the Netherlands. Germany became a republic.
        The Prince became the head of the family -- which became widely known in earlier centuries as the royal house of the Kingdom of Prussia -- on the death of his father, Crown Prince Wilhelm, and is succeeded in that position, by his own choice, by an 18-year-old grandson, Georg Friedrich Ferdinand, who lives with his mother in the north German state of Schleswig-Holstein.
        Louis Ferdinand said in a 1990 interview: "I'm doing nothing special to prepare him. But he does know all about the family."
        By some accounts, Prince Louis Ferdinand caused some embarrassment and irritation among Germans late in his life by indicating that he favored a revival of the German monarchy.
        Earlier in his life, he spent what he said were some of his happiest years in Detroit, where he worked from 1929 to 1934 at a Ford automobile plant and where Henry Ford took him under his wing. The Prince went on to have links to German anti-Hitler resistance groups in Nazi Germany. He also had connections to German officers who plotted an unsuccessful attempt to assassinate Hitler in 1944.
        He himself was a pilot instructor in the Luftwaffe at the outbreak of World War II, but Hitler soon barred members of any royal house from fighting, fearful that they could attract a following. So Louis Ferdinand spent the rest of the war in a family estate in West Prussia.
        The prince was born in Potsdam, outside Berlin, studied at the University of Berlin, traveled widely, was a patron of songwriters and did some composing himself.
        One of his compositions was a funeral march for his 18th-century ancestor, King Frederick the Great of Prussia. He composed the march for the occasion of the return of the King's remains in 1991 to Potsdam. The remains had been shipped to Bavaria in World War II to save them from damage. Their return was subject to some criticism as underscoring earlier German miitarism.
        Louis Ferdinand's wife, Kira, a kinswoman of Russian czars, died in 1967 after 29 years of marriage.
        His survivors include three sons and two daughters.
        A funeral service is to be held on Oct. 8 in the Lutheran Cathedral in Berlin that is the last resting-place of other members of the House of Hohenzollern. A spokesman for the family in Bremen said Louis Ferdinand is to be buried at a family castle -- outside Hechingen in southern Germany -- where the Prussian flag flew at half-staff yesterday.
      