
        Thomas Chastain, a best-selling mystery writer and a former head of the Mystery Writers of America, died yesterday in Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Priscilla Ridgway, the executive director of the Mystery Writers of America. Mr. Chastain was the organization's president in 1989 and on its board for more than a decade.
        As a literary stylist, he could be blunt. One critic wrote: "Mr. Chastain is a rude writer. He sticks his fingers into our eyes." Another praised his skill in setting out "a nice, taut story."
        Mr. Chastain's most successful book, "Who Killed the Robins Family?," was published in 1983, reached No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list in January 1984. The book remained on the list for the better part of a year and sold more than a million copies.
        Mr. Chastain's wife, Louise, said yesterday that Bill Adler, a book packager, came up with the idea of having Mr. Chastain write a mystery containing no solutions but offering readers "a $10,000 reward for solving the crime -- it could be yours!"
        That marketing strategem was credited with a playing a large role in the book's success. Mrs. Chastain said that the $10,000 was won by four married couples from Denver, who together came up with the answers to 39 of 40 questions, printed in the book, about the murders of eight members of the wealthy Robins family, which owned a cosmetics firm.
        A sequel, "The Revenge of the Robins Family" (1984), was also a best seller but did less well.
        Mr. Chastain was born in Canada, grew up mainly in the American South and studied at Johns Hopkins University. He worked in Baltimore as a newspaperman and in New York City as an advertising copywriter. He also wrote for, and worked as an editor of, men's adventure magazines.
        He became a full-time novelist in 1974. One of the first of his more than 15 books was "Pandora's Box" (1974), about a robbery at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The last was "The Prosecutor" (1992). Among the others was "Where the Truth Lies" (1988), set in Hollywood, which he wrote in collaboration with the actress Helen Hayes. He also wrote mystery stories.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a sister, Katherine Hancock of Edgewater, Fla., and a brother, Gerald of Jacksonville, Fla.
      