
        John W. Wade, an authority on tort law who was dean of Vanderbilt University's law school from 1952 to 1971, died on Aug. 24 at his home in Nashville, Tenn. He was 83.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Elizabeth Latt, a spokeswoman for the university, which is in Nashville.
        In 1963, Mr. Wade was one of 46 prominent lawyers who called on Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama to step aside and allow the registration of three black students at the University of Alabama.
        Mr. Wade was a co-author of successive editions of a widely used case book on tort law, which is the law governing the civil obligations when an individual or corporation injures someone, and the determination of liability and damages. Tort cases include ones involving automobile accidents, products liability, medical malpractice and fraudulent commercial dealings.
        The current, ninth edition of the work is titled "Prosser, Wade and Schwartz's Torts, Cases and Materials" and was published earlier this year by the Foundation Press. The case book's longtime senior author, William L. Prosser, died years ago, and Mr. Wade became senior author for several editions. Richard T. Fenton, president of the Foundation Press, said yesterday that the work is the most widely used case book in its field.
        While Mr. Wade headed the law school, he oversaw its racial integration, in 1956, and in 1971 hired its first female professor. He also oversaw the expansion of the school's faculty, curriculum and library. During his tenure as dean, enrollment grew to 483 students from 128.
        John Wade was born in Little Rock, Ark., and earned bachelor's and law degrees from the University of Mississippi. He also earned a law degree from Harvard University. He taught at the Universities of Mississippi and Texas and at Vanderbilt before becoming dean.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Woody Wade; two sons, John W. Jr., of Brentwood, Tenn., and William J., of Baton Rouge, La.; two daughters, Mary Shanks of Atlanta, and Ruth Ellen Grant of Richmond, and seven grandchildren.
      