
        Dr. Richard Berczeller, a physician who began writing short stories and autobiographical recollections in his 60's, died on Monday in New York. He was 91.
        His works, including 10 short stories published in The New Yorker, dwelt in part on his early life in the Austrian Socialist movement of the 1920's and 30's. His father, Adolf Berczeller, was a co-founder of the Hungarian Social Democratic Party, and the son participated in the Austrian workers' movement even after it was declared illegal by the Fascist Government in Austria in 1934.
        Dr. Berczeller was repeatedly detained in the following years as a political prisoner. He was arrested by the Gestapo in 1938 after the German Nazi annexation of Austria but released on condition that he leave the German Reich. With the help of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, he made his way to New York by way of Paris, where he supported himself as a physician in a brothel, and the Ivory Coast, where he was a medical assistant in the French colonial service.
        He was born in Odenburg, in western Hungary, which became part of Austria after World War I.
        As a medical student at the University of Vienna in the 1920's, he worked as an extra for Michael Curtiz, the film director who went on to make "Casablanca." When Mr. Curtiz moved on to the Berlin studio that employed Marlene Dietrich, he asked the young man to come and play bigger roles. But his mother persuaded him to stay the course and become a doctor.
        Arriving in New York in 1941, he worked first in the Associated Austrian Relief Organization and the American Friends of Austrian Labor. After passing New York medical examinations, he worked as a physician for poor people on the Lower East Side and later as a school doctor. He was on the staff of Beth Israel Hospital for 45 years.
        His books, "Displaced Doctor," "Time Was" and a collection of his New Yorker stories entitled "A Trip Into the Blue and Other Stories," were published from 1965 to 1980.
        He is survived by his wife, Maria, of New York; a son, Peter, of New York, and two grandchildren.
      