
        Lindsay Anderson, the British film and theater director whose distaste for conformity and class-conscious English tradition informed such anarchic films as 'If . . . " and "O Lucky Man!," died on Tuesday in the Dordogne region of France, where he was vacationing. He was 71 and lived in London.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a friend, Mike Kaplan, a producer.
        Mr. Anderson made a name for himself as a cinema rebel during the 1960's and 70's. He was also considered an innovative theater director, and was the artistic director of the Royal Court theater in London from 1969 to 1975. He also fostered new writing as a founding member of the English Stage Company at the Royal Court.
        "He was a man of great talent and formidable intelligence," said Mr. Kaplan, who produced Mr. Anderson's 1987 film "The Whales of August," which provided a last screen showcase for Bette Davis and Lillian Gish.
        Mr. Anderson's first feature film was the influential "This Sporting Life" (1963), which explored the socially restrictive society of a Northern English town through the eyes of a coal miner turned rugby player. It starred Richard Harris and Rachel Roberts, both of whom received Oscar nominations. Mistakes Were 'First-Class'
        In 1969, his second feature, "If . . . ,' took an insurrectionary view of Britain with a tale of a boarding-school rebel, played by Malcolm McDowell, who rises up against the establishment. Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times that the film "is so good and strong that even those things in the movie that strike one as being first-class mistakes are of more interest than entire movies made by smoothly consistent, lesser directors."
        Mr. McDowell said yesterday of Mr. Anderson: "He was a very, very important man in my life. He started me off as an actor in film. The sad thing is he was itching to do something in the last few years but could never raise the money, and now it's too late."
        Other Anderson films include "In Celebration" (1975), adapted from the David Storey play about three brothers who return to the coal-mining town of their youth, and "Britannia Hospital" (1982), a blackly comic satire in which a chaotic hospital serves as a metaphor for a decaying Britain.
        He also appeared as a cameo actor in a number of films, making what Mr. Canby described in a review as a "brief, richly funny appearance" as a Cambridge schoolmaster in "Chariots of Fire" in 1981. 'Like Being a Lion Tamer'
        Mr. Anderson was considered a fascinating mixture: a self-disciplined anarchist and a likable paternalist. He was once quoted as saying that his own definition of a movie director was "like being a lion tamer," with the explanation that "when the lion tamer goes into the cage, he has to give an impression of absolute confidence and relaxation even if he is terrified 10 minutes before."
        He was born in 1923 in Bangalore, India, where his father was a soldier.  He graduated from Oxford, where he was a classical scholar and co-editor of a magazine called Sequence, for which he wrote passionate articles espousing the American avant-garde.  One article, entitled "Free Cinema," ended up giving its name to a school of documentary-style British film making whose adherents included Karel Reisz and Tony Richardson.
        In the 1950's he made documentary films, including "Wakefield Express," "O Dreamland," "Every Day Except Christmas," "March to Aldermaston" and "Thursday's Children," an Academy Award winner that he directed with Guy Brenton. David Storey Collaboration
        Mr. Anderson's theatrical work was largely centered on the output of the playwright David Storey, his longtime friend and colleague. From "In Celebration" in 1969 to the Royal National Theater production of "Stages" in 1992, he directed virtually every Storey premiere, including "Home," "The Changing Room" and "Life Class." In New York, he directed "Home" and "The Kingfisher," and was last represented Off Broadway with revivals of "The Holly and the Ivy" in 1982 and "In Celebration" in 1984. In 1985, he directed "Hamlet" in Washington, revising a production he had done in London four years earlier.
        In 1989, he directed "Glory! Glory!" -- a satire of television evangelism -- for HBO. He was one of five film makers asked to participate in "The Director's Place," a series of semi-autobiographical films for the BBC. His contribution is scheduled to start the series on Sept. 17.
        He is survived by a brother, Murray, and a nephew, Sandy.
      