
        Elliot Liebow, an anthropologist and sociologist whose acclaimed books dealt with homeless women and street-corner society, died on Sunday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md., the community in which he lived. He was 69.
        The cause of death was cancer, his daughter Elisabeth Liebow-Feeser said.
        For many years, Dr. Liebow was chief of the Center for the Study of Work and Mental Health of the National Institute of Mental Health. Under his leadership, the center, part of the Department of Health and Human Services, financed research into issues like the democratization of the workplace, the quality of work life, women on welfare and the relationship of work to mental health. Since 1990, he held the Patrick Cardinal O'Boyle Professorship at the National Catholic School for Social Service of the Catholic University of America in Washington.
        Dr. Liebow was the author of "Tally's Corner" (Little, Brown), an influential 1966 study of black street-corner society in Washington, and of "Tell Them Who I Am: The Lives of Homeless Women," published in 1993 by the Free Press. Became a Volunteer
        In 1984, after being told he had less than a year to live, Dr. Liebow left his post with the National Institute of Mental Health and began volunteering at a soup kitchen and a homeless shelter for women. He wrote that once he realized he was not about to die immediately, he decided to do what he did best as a field anthropologist: he began taking notes. The result was "Tell Them Who I Am."
        Earlier this year, the National Alliance to End Homelessness honored him with its John W. Macy Award. In 1967, "Tally's Corner" earned him the C. Wright Mills Award of the Society for the Study of Social Problems. Among Dr. Liebow's other honors were the Gunnar Myrdal Award for government in 1980 and, in 1984, the Lee Founders Award of the Society for the Study of Social Problems for lifetime contributions to the field of sociology.
        In 1990, Dr. Liebow was awarded the President's Medal of the Catholic University of America, from which he received his doctorate in anthropology in 1966.
        Dr. Liebow, born in Washington, dropped out of high school to join the Marine Corps in 1942 and saw action in the South Pacific during World War II, when he earned his high school diploma through correspondence courses. He received a bachelor's degree in English literature from George Washington University in 1949 and pursued graduate studies in ancient history at the University of Maryland before turning to anthropology.
        He is survived by his wife of 40 years, Harriet Liebow; two daughters, Elisabeth Liebow-Feeser of Baltimore and Jessica Liebow Astran of Silver Spring; two grandchildren; two sisters, Esther Hutt of Katzrin, Israel, and Bernice Lee of New York City, and two sons-in-law, Scott Feeser and Eric Astran.
      