
        James F. Maloney, a former New Jersey Democratic chairman and one of the people who brought minor-league baseball back to Trenton after 44 years, died on Tuesday at his home in Haddonfield. He was 49.
        The cause was a heart attack, officials of the team said.
        Mr. Maloney was a partner in the Trenton Thunder baseball club, which began its first season this year in its new Waterfront Park Stadium on the Delaware River. The team has ended up leading the Eastern League in attendance.
        The Thunder, a class AA, or middle-level, team, which has been affiliated with the Detroit Tigers since Mr. Maloney and his three partners bought it and moved it to New Jersey from London, Ontario, played some of its early home games in Veterans Stadium in Philadelphia and in Reading, Pa., and Wilmington, Del., while its new stadium was being finished. Tigers Ending Affiliation
        Just hours after Mr. Maloney's death, the Tigers management announced that it would not renew the agreement with Trenton after reports that the Thunder's management was talking with other major-league clubs about next season.
        Mr. Maloney was born in Brooklyn and grew up there with another person who was to play a major role in New Jersey politics, James J. Florio. Mr. Maloney graduated from Fordham University and received his law degree from Rutgers University. He and Mr. Florio, another Rutgers graduate, formed a law partnership and when Mr. Florio ran unsuccessfully for governor in 1981, Mr. Maloney was his campaign manager.
        Mr. Florio named Mr. Maloney the Democratic Party's state chairman, but in the months after Mr. Florio's narrow 1,767-vote loss to Thomas H. Kean, the close professional and personal relationship between the two men became strained. They dissolved their law partnership and Mr. Florio returned to Congress to await his successful second bid for governor in 1989. A New Law Partner
        Mr. Maloney remained party chairman for four years after Mr. Florio's defeat and worked to retire the $450,000 debt left over from the 1981 campaign.
        He also reopened his law practice in Marlton with a new partner, Joe Finley, who, along with Sam Plumeri and Joe Caruso, joined in bringing the Thunder from Canada to Trenton.
        "He was the moving force behind the move," said Tom McCarthy, a spokesman for the Thunder ball club. "He was incredibly focused and could go nonstop, a mile a minute, but always knowing all the details and where they fit."
        He is survived by his wife, Marilyn, and two daughters, Margaret and Anna Mae.
      