
        Dr. Howard S. Tager, a researcher on diabetes and a medical professor at the University of Chicago, died at his home here on Tuesday. He was 49.
        He died of a heart attack, university officials said.
        Dr. Tager's specialty was the structure and workings of two hormones, insulin and glucagon, which affect the levels of blood sugar in the body. In 1979 he and two others at the university, Dr. Arthur Rubenstein and Dr. Donald Steiner, discovered how a genetic mutation leads to an abnormal form of insulin that causes diabetes. Their research contributed to an improved understanding of diabetes and insulin therapy.
        "He made many really important contributions revolving around the insulin molecule and how it regulates blood sugar," Dr. Rubenstein, who is the chairman of the University of Chicago's department of medicine, said of Dr. Tager. "He was also unique in his ability to use physics, chemistry and biochemistry to detect these abnormal insulin structures."
        Dr. Tager was born in Los Angeles. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1966 and a Ph.D. in biological chemistry from the University of Michigan in 1971.
        He taught at the Medical College of Ohio in 1973 before moving to the University of Chicago as an assistant professor of biochemistry the next year. He was promoted to associate professor in 1981, when he was also named to direct the University of Chicago's Diabetes Research and Training Center, one of six such centers in the country, and held that post until 1986.
        In 1985, Dr. Tager was named the Louis Block Professor of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. He was also appointed to a two-year term as chairman of the department of biochemistry and molecular biology. He began a second term as chairman last June.
        Dr. Tager wrote more than 100 scientific papers and won research awards from the American Diabetes Association and the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation.
        He is survived by a brother, Dr. Robert M. Tager of Mendocino, Calif.
      