
        Dr. Walter F. Heiligenberg, a scientist who learned about animal behavior and the nervous system by studying electric fish, died on Thursday in the USAir plane crash. He was 56 and lived in Del Mar, Calif.
        Dr. Heiligenberg, a professor of behavioral physiology at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California at San Diego, was on his way to deliver a lecture to graduate students at the University of Pittsburgh. His wife, Wendy, is expecting a baby in two weeks.
        In pursuit of different varieties of electric fish, Dr. Heiligenberg visited the Amazon River basin and countries like Panama, Venezuela and Brazil. He studied how the fish surround themselves with an electric current to aid navigation, avoid predators, identify sources of food and communicate with one another.
        "His goal was to learn how nerve networks process sensory information and control adaptive behavioral responses," Cindy Clark, a spokeswoman for the Scripps Institution, said.
        Dr. Theodore H. Bullock, a colleague at the University of California at San Diego, said that electric fish were especially helpful in the study of animal behavior because they communicate with signals that are easily measured. "He was trying to understand behavior in terms of nerve connections," Dr. Bullock said.
        Dr. Heiligenberg, the author of more than 100 scientific papers, wrote or edited several books, including "Sensory Information Processing in Electric Fish: Computational Rules and their Neuronal Implementation" and "Electroreception," which he edited with Dr. Bullock.
        Dr. Heiligenberg was also the senior editor of the Journal of Comparative Physiology, and last year he was elected a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Born in Germany, Dr. Heiligenberg earned his doctorate at the University of Munich. He studied with Konrad Lorenz, the Austrian Nobel Prize-winning ethnologist, while working as a research scientist at the Max Planck Institute for Behavioral Physiology in Seewiesen, Germany. In 1973, at the invitation of Dr. Bullock, he came to the Scripps Institution.
      