
        Naohiro Amaya, a major architect of the industrial policy that has contributed to Japan's dramatic economic growth, died here on Tuesday, one day before his 69th birthday.
        The cause was lung cancer, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said.
        Mr. Amaya worked at the ministry, usually known as MITI, from 1948 until 1981, rising to Deputy Minister for International Affairs, the highest post available to a career civil servant. Starting in 1987 he served as executive director and then chairman and chief executive of the Dentsu Institute for Human Studies, a research organization affiliated with Japan's largest advertising agency.
        At MITI, Mr. Amaya was instrumental in drawing up plans by which the Government aided the development of Japanese industry. These measures included protection from imports and financial support to favored industries. Criticized by U.S. Industry
        Economists have long argued whether such an industrial policy helped or hurt Japan and whether it should be adopted by the United States and other countries. Many American Government and industry officials have criticized the Japanese policies as unfair.
        Mr. Amaya was frank in acknowledging that Japan was not a free trader and outspoken in defending MITI's industrial policy to the world. He argued that Japan would not have been able to rise from its impoverished condition after World War II had it relied solely on free-market forces. "We can't take that happy-go-lucky attitude," he said in 1985.
        But in more recent years Mr. Amaya, arguing that times had changed, became a critic of too much government control of industry and of the bureaucracy of which he was a part. "What Japan needs now is a 'negative industrial policy,' " he said in 1993.
        Mr. Amaya was particularly noted for his role in drawing up MITI's vision for the 1970's, which moved Japan into electronics and other "knowledge intensive" businesses from the heavy industry favored in the 1960's. Negotiations in Washington
        As deputy minister from 1979 to 1981, Mr. Amaya led negotiations with Washington that resulted in Japan's voluntarily restricting exports of automobiles to the United States from 1981 until last March. Mr. Amaya urged the voluntary restraints as a way of heading off passage of a bill by Congress that would have imposed even harsher limits.
        "For his efforts in the negotation, he was described by some auto magnates in Tokyo as a 'running dog' of the Americans," Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., a former United States trade negotiator, wrote about Mr. Amaya in his book "Trading Places." But, Mr. Prestowitz added, "in fact, he deserved a medal for an oustanding act of industrial statesmanship."
        Mr. Amaya studied politics at Tokyo University, graduating in 1948 and immediately joining the trade ministry. He was an author of many books and articles, mainly in Japanese, and was a frequent commentator on Japan's domestic and foreign policies.
        He is survived by his wife, Kimiko; two sons, Taro and Jiro, and a daughter, Yukiko Amaya Yates.
      