
        Patrick O'Neal, an actor who appeared on stage, on television and in more than a dozen films, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        The immediate cause was respiratory failure, and he had tuberculosis and cancer, said his wife, Cynthia.
        At his death, Mr. O'Neal was a co-owner, with his wife and his brother, Michael, of O'Neal's, a restaurant at 49 West 64th Street in Manhattan, which was named the Ginger Man until 1993. He and his brother were also co-owners of the Landmark Tavern on 11th Avenue at 46th Street.
        In 1963 Mr. O'Neal played the lead role, Sebastian Balfe Dangerfield, in "The Ginger Man," a play by J. P. Donleavy based on his novel of the same title, at the Orpheum Theater Off Broadway.
        One critic praised his acting in that production as likely to entrance theatergoers who had met Dangerfield in the novel and found him "enchanting and amusing for all his waywardness, his cruelty and his insincerity."
        Mr. O'Neal went on to use the name when he co-founded the Ginger Man in 1964. It prospered, drawing patrons from the Lincoln Center area and farther afield. It was the first of a half-dozen restaurants, mostly in Manhattan, that he came to co-own over the years. They included another place in the Lincoln Center area, O'Neal's Baloon at 63d Street and Columbus Avenue. Defrocked in a Williams Play
        Mr. O'Neal's other stage roles included the defrocked cleric in Tennessee Williams's "Night of the Iguana," a role he first played in a short form of the drama in Spoleto, Italy, in 1959 and went on to play in other productions on Broadway and elsewhere.
        Among his films were "In Harm's Way" (1965), "A Fine Madness" (1966), "The Kremlin Letter" (1970), "King Rat" (1965), "The Way We Were" (1973) and "The Stepford Wives" (1975). He also acted in many television shows and series, from the 1950's through the 1980's.
        Mr. O'Neal was born and grew up in Ocala, Fla. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Florida and went on to study acting in New York, with Sanford Meisner at the Neighborhood Playhouse, and with Lee Strasberg at the Actors Studio.
        In addition to his wife of 38 years, the former Cynthia Baxter, and his brother, of Manhattan, he is survived by two sons, Maximilian, of Manhattan and Fitzjohn, of Redondo Beach, Calif.
      