
        Robert F. Bennett, who in World War II was among a small group of New Yorkers who joined the first units of the Free French Forces as they liberated Paris, died at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Manhattan on Aug. 19. He died just days before he was to deliver Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's greetings to Paris on the 50th anniversary of its liberation. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan.
        He suffered a brief illness, said his son, Robert S. Bennett.
        Mr. Bennett, who was active in several veterans' organizations, served with an artillery battalion of the 12th Infantry Regiment of New York, which landed on Omaha Beach in Normandy shortly after D-Day.
        Mr. Bennett, a medical corpsman, was among a cadre of 94 New Yorkers who in 1944 joined the antiaircraft section of the Second Free French Armored Division to liberate Paris. The troops were credited as being the first Americans to reach the French capital that August. In National Guard
        He later saw action in the Battle of the Bulge and the final push into Germany and Czechoslovakia. He was decorated with a Bronze Star, five campaign stars and France's Croix de Guerre. He had planned to fly to Paris for the anniversary the day he died.
        After the war, he spent 35 years in the New York National Guard, rising to the rank of lieutenant colonel. Among the veterans' groups he worked with were the Veterans Association 12th Infantry and Veterans of Foreign War. In 1990, he was Commander of the V.F.W. County Council of New York.
        He was born in Calgary, Alberta, and graduated from Commerce High School in Manhattan. While in school, he went to work for the Merchandiser Publishing Company, and returned there after the war. He eventually became production manager for a trade magazine and a variety-store directory published by the company.
        When the publishing concern was taken over by a Chicago company and moved there in 1974, he switched careers to enter the insurance field, specializing in pension funds. He was president of Regal Executive Plans when he retired eight years ago. The company has since closed.
        Besides his son, a resident of Brooklyn, Mr. Bennett's survivors include his wife of 48 years, Josephine Lawlor Bennett; three daughters, Jo Anne, Ellen Marie and Rosemary, all of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      