
        Richard J. Herrnstein, a Harvard University psychologist whose theory that intelligence was largely inherited made him a focus for debate, died at his home in Belmont, Mass., on Tuesday. He was 64.
        The cause was lung cancer, said the Reardon Funeral Home in Belmont.
        Dr. Herrnstein was the Edgar Pierce Professor of Psychology at Harvard, where he had taught for 36 years.
        His writings drew intense hostility from liberal academics and support from conservative theorists, who saw them as compatible with their opposition to social programs like Head Start, which gives learning help to the disadvantaged.
        Dr. Herrnstein first set off debate on I.Q., race and class in 1971 when he published an article in The Atlantic Monthly contending that intelligence is largely inherited, so no matter what efforts were made, egalitaranism would not work.
        In a 1971 interview in The New York Times, he predicted that an inborn lack of ability would bar those of low I.Q. from career success, creating a "biological stratification" into castes based on "hereditary meritocracy." Dr. Herrnstein expanded his views into a 1973 book, "I.Q. and Meritocracy," which ignited arguments over the uses of I.Q. testing.
        Dr. Herrnstein drew heavily on the data of Dr. Arthur Jensen, a psychologist at the University of California at Berkeley, who held that differences between the races in I.Q. were the result of heredity rather than factors like education or economic status. Because of this, Dr. Herrnstein was widely assumed in the academic debates to share Dr. Jensen's views on race and I.Q., which Dr. Herrnstein denied.
        Because of his views, Dr. Herrnstein was often harassed in the early 1970's and his classes at Harvard were disrupted by student protesters. When Dr. Herrnstein took part in a debate on I.Q. and heredity sponsored by the magazine Social Policy at the Carnegie Center in Manhattan in 1973, the two hours of questions from his audience were largely hostile.
        In an article in The Atlantic Monthly in 1982, Dr. Herrnstein asserted not only that I.Q. was inherited, but that because this was so, compensatory education was futile.
        A 1985 book, "Crime and Human Nature," which Dr. Herrnstein wrote with James Q. Wilson, a political scientist now at the University of Southern California, held that a propensity toward crime had biological roots, which were inherited. That book also ignited debate over the question of "nature versus nurture."
        This month, Dr. Herrnstein's latest book, "The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life" (The Free Press), is to be published. The "bell curve" refers to the bell-like image created by graphs of the distribution of I.Q. in the general population. The book carries forward Dr. Herrnstein's position that inherited abilities dictate intelligence and so determine success in life.
        In the book, Dr. Herrnstein and his co-author, Charles Murray, a political analyst at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group in Washington, contend that I.Q. is linked to economic success, criminality and being dependent on welfare. They argue that since I.Q. is fixed by genetics, it cannot be changed meaningfully by environment or learning.
        While most behavior geneticists agree that a large component of intelligence is inherited, they would say that the contribution of environment is also significant. And they disagree with the social implications Dr. Herrnstein drew.
        But Dr. Herrnstein was regarded with respect because "he understood and honored data," said Dr. Jerome Kagan, a psychologist at Harvard. Dr. Herrnstein was chairman of the Harvard psychology department from 1967 to 1971 and editor of The Psychological Bulletin from 1975 to 1981.
        Dr. Herrnstein's position at the center of debate over I.Q. would not have been predicted from his early career. His groundbreaking work in the 1950's and 1960's was in the field of behaviorist psychological theory, not intelligence.
        In research on laboratory animals, Dr. Herrnstein mapped with mathematical precision the link between behavior and rewards and formulated what is known as "matching law," which shows that animals learn to repeat an action in direct proportion to the degree the action is reinforced by a reward like food.
        A main disciple of B. F. Skinner, the principle learning theorist, Dr. Herrnstein joined his mentor on the Harvard faculty in 1958 after serving in the Army for three years. A graduate of City College of New York, Dr. Herrnstein had been a star pupil of Dr. Skinner's while earning his doctorate at Harvard, which he was awarded in 1955.
        The child of Hungarian immigrant parents, Dr. Herrnstein was born in 1930 in New York City, where he attended the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan.
        Dr. Herrnstein is survived by his wife, Susan; a daughter, Julia Manganaro of Fontana, Calif.; two sons, Max, of Tokyo, and James, of Cambridge, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      