
        Albert Decourtray, the influential and outspoken Roman Catholic cardinal who held the formal title Primate of the Gauls, died yesterday in Lyons, France. He was 71.
        The cause of death was a cerebral hemorrhage, a hospital spokesman said. Cardinal Decourtray was hospitalized after collapsing in his apartment on Monday and falling into a deep coma from which he never emerged.
        An advocate of social justice who appeared frequently on television to speak out for the disadvantaged, Cardinal Decourtray was regarded as a liberal conscience of the church. Undeterred by controversy, he sided with workers against government, advocated the rights of prisoners, condemned racism and opposed the tenets of the far right.
        In 1992, as the rightist National Front party headed by Jean-Marie Le Pen sought power in France, the Cardinal warned against "an adventure that could lead to the rise of some new Hitler."
        Cardinal Decourtray was also respected for helping to expose the role of the Catholic Church in sheltering Paul Touvier, who was arrested in a priory in Nice in 1989, 45 years after he went into hiding.
        Last April, the 79-year-old Mr. Touvier, who collaborated with the Nazis as a police official during World War II, was sentenced to life in prison for crimes against humanity in ordering the execution of seven Jews in 1944.
        In 1989, responding to protests by Jewish organizations, the Cardinal announced that a Carmelite convent would be moved from the site of the Auschwitz death camp.
        Two years earlier, he expressed reservations about the reception accorded the Austrian President, Kurt Waldheim, by Pope John Paul II at the Vatican. Mr. Waldheim had been accused of serving with a German army unit that committed atrocities during World War II.
        Cardinal Decourtray said: "I experienced a certain suffering on hearing that Pope John Paul II was going to receive Mr. Waldheim. I am still trying to understand the reasons for this visit, but I must say that I have not understood."
        Cardinal Decourtray was born on April 9, 1923, in Wattignies-la-Victoire in northern France. Ordained in 1947, he was director of the Grand Seminaire of Lille from 1952 to 1962. From 1966 to 1971, he served as vicar general of Lille. He served as bishop of Dijon from 1974 to 1981, when he was named archbishop of Lyons. Pope John Paul II named him a cardinal in 1985.
        Three years ago, Cardinal Decourtray received the Humanitarian Action Prize of the Jewish association B'nai B'rith. Last year, he was elected to the Academie Francaise, the elite literary panel that acts as a guardian of the French language.
      