
        Robert Austerlitz, an authority on linguistics whose professorship was at Columbia University and whose fieldwork ranged the globe, died on Sept. 9 in Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 70 and lived in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan.
        He had cancer, his family said.
        Professor Austerlitz retired in December from the Columbia faculty after having been a full professor since 1965 and chairman of the department of linguistics from 1965 to 1968. He had taught there since 1958.
        His fieldwork took him to Hungary, to study Gypsy folklore, and to Alaska, New Mexico and northern Japan -- places where he studied indigenous, preliterate tongues.
        Among his scholarly interests were the languages and cultures of northern Eurasia, the historical reconstruction of grammar and vocabulary and the formal structure of poetry and music.
        His writings included "Finnish Reader and Glossary" (1963), and he was the editor of "The Scope of American Linguistics" (1976). Among the publications he coedited was, from 1960 to 1965, the journal Word. And in 1967, he put together a map of language families of Eurasia for the Smithsonian Institution.
        Professor Austerlitz was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a past president of the Linguistic Society of America and the American Oriental Society and a member or honorary or corresponding member of various other learned bodies.
        In 1972 and 1973, he was a senior fellow of the National Endowment for the Humanities, and he had been a visiting professor at Yale, Berkeley, Ohio State, the universities of Washington, Hawaii, Cologne and Helsinki, and elsewhere. The awards and honors he received included Finland's Order of the Lion.
        He was born in Bucharest, Romania, came to the United States in 1938 and earned a bachelor's degree from the New School for Social Research in 1950 and M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Columbia.
        His wife, the former Sylvi Nevanlinna, whom he married in 1953, died in 1981.
        He is survived by his companion, Victoria Salter; a daughter, Monica, of Minneapolis, and a son, Paul, of South Gate, Mich.
      