
        Edward J. Patten, who served nine terms as a Democratic Congressman from New Jersey and retired in 1981 after a political career of nearly five decades, died on Saturday at the John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison, N.J. He was 89 and lived in Perth Amboy.
        The cause was complications from surgery last week, said Brendan Flynn of the Flynn and Son Funeral Home in Perth Amboy.
        Mr. Patten was elected Mayor of Perth Amboy in 1934. He spent 6 years in that post, 14 years as Middlesex County Clerk and 8 years as New Jersey Secretary of State.
        He won election to the House for the first time in 1962, representing his state's 15th Congressional District. A stalwart in the Democratic machine headed by David T. Wilentz, Mr. Patten was elected after pledging "100 percent support" of President John F. Kennedy.
        By 1973, however, he was refusing to define himself by the conventional political labels of liberal, conservative or moderate. He preferred the broader epithet "metropolitan." In an interview in that year he said, "When it comes to helping people, I found that many Republicans in the New Jersey-New York area tend to vote the same as us Democrats do."
        By 1976, although he had scored high marks with the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Committee on Political Education, his constituents were reported to be moving to the right, and so was he.
        As a Congressman, Mr. Patten had an easy time winning re-election until 1978, when he narrowly escaped defeat at the polls. That was when he and many other House members were found to have received favors from Tongsun Park, the South Korean lobbyist and intelligence agent who was accused of buying influence in Washington for his Government.
        Mr. Park admitted that he had given Mr. Patten $500 in the form of contributions to the annual picnic of the Middlesex County Democratic Party.
        Early in 1980, after the Middlesex County Democratic organization indicated that it was searching for a replacement for him, Mr. Patten announced that he would not seek re-election. At that time, he was the only New Jerseyan with a seat on the House Appropriations Committee.
        Shortly after leaving New Jersey's Congressional delegation in early 1981, he said in an interview that he had learned during his years in Congress that the wise course was to be "low-profiled, selfless, to regard your constituents as sacred and don't shoot your mouth off on every issue. Fellows who do that only get defeated."
        A native of Perth Amboy, Mr. Patten graduated from Newark Normal School, which later became Newark State College, Rutgers University and the New Jersey Law School. He maintained a private law practice in Perth Amboy, and taught public school there, through 1934.
        His wife, the former Anna Quigg, died in 1982.
        He is survived by a daughter, Sister Catherine Patten of Old Bridge, N.J., and two brothers, Thomas J. Patten of Mount Laurel, N.J., and William J. Patten of Nashua, N.H.
      