
        Thorsten Sellin, an authority on criminology and opponent of the death penalty who taught at the University of Pennsylvania, died on Saturday at his home in Gilmanton, N.H. He was 97.
        The cause was heart failure, said Prof. Marvin E. Wolfgang, the director of the university's Sellin Center for Studies in Criminology and Criminal Law.
        The center is named for Professor Sellin (pronounced Se-LEEN), who retired in 1967 from the university, where he was a longtime professor of sociology and served as chairman of the sociology department from 1944 to 1959.
        He began teaching and doing research in criminology in 1926. He was president of the International Society of Criminology from 1956 to 1965; secretary general of the International Penal and Penitentiary Commission, headquartered in Bern, from 1949 to 1951, and the editor of The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science from 1929 to 1968.
        Professor Sellin was outspoken in his opposition to the death penalty and contended that comparisons of statistical data from jurisdictions with and without the death penalty showed that it was no deterrent to crime. He carried out research on the death penalty at the request of official commissions in Canada and Britain as well as various American states.
        An expert on crime statistics, he advised the Federal Bureau of Investigation about statistical matters, Professor Wolfgang said, and was a consultant to the Bureau of the Census on criminal statistics. He also headed, or was a member of, various United Nations panels of experts on criminological questions.
        Professor Sellin was a historian of crime and had written on crime in the Great Depression and the relationship between slavery and prisons.
        He was a visiting professor or lecturer at Princeton, the University of California at Berkeley, Oxford and other universities. The honors and awards he received included medals from France and Sweden.
        His books include "Culture Conflict and Crime" (1938), "Pioneering in Penology" (1944) and "The Death Penalty" (1959). He wrote "The Measure of Delinquency" (1964, Patterson Smith), with Professor Wolfgang.
        Professor Sellin was born in Ornskoldsvik, Sweden, emigrated to Canada in 1913 and went on to receive a bachelor's degree from Augustana College in Illinois and master's and doctoral degrees in sociology from the University of Pennsylvania.
        He married Amy Anderson in 1920, who died in 1972.
        He is survived by three sons, Theodore and David, both of Washington, and Eric of New Orleans, and three grandsons.
      