
        Carleton Sprague Smith, a musicologist and an expert on Hispanic and Brazilian culture, died on Monday at his home in Washington, Conn. He was 89.
        He had Parkinson's disease, said his daughter, Damaris Horan.
        Dr. Smith, who held a doctorate in history from the University of Vienna, was formerly the executive director of the Spanish Institute, whose headquarters are at 684 Park Avenue in Manhattan, and served on its board for 20 years. He was also a co-founder and a director of the Brazilian Institute of New York University.
        He was a former member of the boards of the Museum of Modern Art, the Metropolitan Opera Society, the New York Philharmonic Society, the MacDowell Association, the Aspen Institute and other institutions. He was also a former president of the American Musicological Association and an accomplished flutist.
        From 1967 through 1970, Dr. Smith was the executive director of the Spanish Institute, a not-for-profit American cultural organization. Its main mission is to disseminate the culture and language of Spain, and its scope includes Spain's influence on Latin America.
        From 1959 to 1961, he was the director of the Brazilian Institute, established in 1958 as an academic center for the encouragement of studies in the language, literature, culture, economics and history of Brazil. From 1962 to 1966, he was chairman of the institute's academic committee. He was a professor of history at New York University in the 1960's and 70's and also taught at its Institute of Public Affairs and Regional Studies.
        In 1961, he was appointed by President John F. Kennedy to the Advisory Commission of the National Cultural Center, which was named the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts when it opened in 1971.
        Earlier, he was the chief of the New York Public Library's music division from 1931 to 1959, with time out for service as a United States cultural attache and as a university teacher in Brazil from 1943 to 1946.
        In 1957, as the head of the music division, he wrote a long and detailed proposal for the creation of a "Library Museum of the Performing Arts," which was to be part of Lincoln Center. In time, the center came to include a Library and Museum for the Performing Arts, now called the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts.
        In Dr. Smith's first year of running the music division, he founded the Music Library Association, and he went on to be its president from 1936 to 1938. In 1941, he set up the Music Americana Collection of the New York Public Library.
        As a flutist, he performed with a variety of string quartets, including the Juilliard. Composers including Randall Thompson, Heitor Villa-Lobos, Alberto Ginastera and Quincy Porter dedicated works to him.
        Dr. Smith was born and reared in Manhattan. He held bachelor's and master's degrees from Harvard University and studied music and history at the University of Vienna, from which he received his doctorate.
        Among the other universities where he taught or lectured over the years were Stanford and Columbia. His writings included articles in journals published in Spanish, Portuguese and German. He was a co-editor of "American Hymns Old and New" (Columbia University Press, 1980).
        Dr. Smith was an honorary citizen of Rio de Janeiro and received honorary degrees from the University of Brazil, the University of Bahia in Brazil, and elsewhere. He won Johns Hopkins University's Peabody Medal for outstanding contributions to music in America.
        In addition to his daughter, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Elisabeth C. Sperry; a sister, Eunice Whittlesey of Wilton, Conn.; a brother, Alexander Mackay-Smith of Millwood, Va., and four grandchildren.
      