
        Jule Styne, the versatile, prolific songwriter whose tunes became standards for three generations and the composer of such classic Broadway musicals as "Gypsy," "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" and "Funny Girl," died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, said Shirley Herz, his press representative. He had undergone open-heart surgery six weeks ago.
        Mr. Styne's enduring songs are legion, among them the Oscar-winning "Three Coins in the Fountain," as well as "I Don't Want to Walk Without You," "Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend," "Everything's Coming Up Roses." But his name was always less familiar than his music.
        This was probably because of his very flexibility. "You write as well as who you write with," he said, and he usually let a musical's lyricist and star set the tone for the score.
        "If you can't be a collaborator," he said, "you don't belong in the theater." Of himself, he once said, "I am the greatest collaborator there is."
        In 1987, Mr. Styne estimated that he had written 2,000 songs, had published 1,500 and had 200 hits. "I'm talking about hit hits," he said. "The others were popular, but there were 200 hit hits." Also among them were "It's Been a Long, Long Time," "It's Magic," "Let It Snow! Let It Snow! Let It Snow!," "Time After Time" and "Five Minutes More."
        In Hollywood, he teamed up with Sammy Cahn on such romantic fare as "I've Heard That Song Before," "I'll Walk Alone" and "Three Coins in the Fountain." On Broadway, he shifted from satire ("Gentlemen Prefer Blondes," with Leo Robin) to drama ("Gypsy," with Stephen Sondheim) to glitter ("Funny Girl," with Bob Merrill), also working with Betty Comden and Adolph Green on shows including "Two on the Aisle" and "Bells Are Ringing."
        "I had 15 No. 1 songs with Sammy Cahn," Mr. Styne said a few years ago. "He loved that big-band sound, so every song had that big-band sound. Then I read lyrics by Yip Harburg and Leo Robin and I thought, 'I'd like to write to those kinds of words.' Yip's syllables and sounds tingle with music. Leo had a wonderful edge, a suave and very sophisticated way of comedy."
        His songs often bore the stamp of the singers who introduced them: Carol Channing, Judy Holliday, Doris Day, Mary Martin, Barbra Streisand and Ethel Merman.
        "Without the rendition there is no song," said Mr. Styne, who also said he considered the words more important than the music. Yet he told an interviewer that he preferred to write the music before the lyrics, as he had done in "Gypsy," his collaboration with Mr. Sondheim. "When the music is written first," he said, "the lyricist will do his best job because he is not writing to his own preconceived rhythmic notions."
        But Mr. Styne had no set ways of collaborating, said his biographer, Theodore Taylor, in "Jule: The Story of Composer Jule Styne" (1979).  'Verbal Shorthand' Of Phrases
        Mr. Styne, a short, stocky, hyperactive man, did have a particular way of speaking, however. When Miss Comden and Mr. Green met him, Mr. Taylor writes, they were nonplused by his rapid-fire "verbal shorthand," which they later defined as: "Stynes (or Styne-ese), n. language circa middle 20th century, spoken and understood by only one man. Noted for its incomprehensibility. Delivered in darting, unfinished, broken phrases. Example: (on the subject of theater dynamics) 'What we in the theater call "dynamics" is -- well -- fast, but not -- you can't do that -- a slower tempo would -- together -- that's not how, well, if two -- not right away -- but -- Dorothy, let's go have a cup of coffee."
        Jule (pronounced JOO-lee) Styne, whose name was originally Julius Stein, was born on Dec. 31, 1905, in Bethnal Green in the East End of London. He was the first of three children of Isadore and Anna Kertman Stein, immigrants from Ukraine who owned a butter-and-egg store.
        When he was 3, his family went to see Harry Lauder, the Scottish entertainer, and the child astonished everyone by leaping on stage and singing a song. Lauder suggested that the Steins buy him a piano. They could not afford one, but his mother managed to arrange for him to take lessons and to practice on a rented piano.
        The family moved to the United States and settled in Chicago, where Julius, now 8, began studying at the Chicago College of Music. He soon won a medal in a Chicago Symphony competition for children and then performed with other symphony orchestras.
        But at 13, he was told by the pianist Harold Bauer that he would never be a concert artist because his hands were too small. He began playing dance music at his high school at lunchtime, and then at a burlesque house. He also placed his "first bet on the ponies," he said, "and had the misfortune to win," starting a longtime addiction to gambling. He began hanging around jazz clubs, listening to the visiting greats from New Orleans. Soon he was playing in clubs himself.
        Reservations Of a Father
        His parents were not happy about the turn of his musical career. "My father wouldn't like the success I've had as a songwriter," he said. "He said he never paid for me to be a composer. He paid for me to be a pianist. He'd say, 'You ought to have heard him play when he was 8 years old.' "
        After high school, Mr. Styne traveled with Edgar Benson's orchestra. In 1926, to impress a young woman, he composed a tune that wound up as his first hit, "Sunday."
        That led to a job with Ben Pollack's band, in which he performed with the likes of Goodman, Glenn Miller and Charlie Spivak. He formed his own band and played in clubs at a time when "more or less, musicians fed off the mob," he said.
        "I must have worked a couple of dozen mob joints," he said. "But those people always seemed to like musicians, and I did my job and kept my mouth shut."
        He said he changed his name at the suggestion of an executive of the Music Corporation of America, who told him that "Stein" seemed "too Jewish." He was also being confused with Dr. Jules Stein, the head of the Music Corporation, he added.
        Mr. Styne moved to New York and became a vocal coach and a conductor for the Broadway entertainer Harry Richman, which led to a job with 20th Century Fox in Hollywood coaching such stars as Shirley Temple and Constance Bennett.
        At Republic Pictures, he wrote songs for Gene Autry and Roy Rogers. ("I did just about anything they asked me to do," he said. "Play piano for Trigger? Sure.")
        Lent to Paramount for the 1942 musical "Sweater Girl," he wrote songs including "I Don't Want to Walk Without You," with Frank Loesser. He met Mr. Cahn at Republic, and they turned out a stream of hits including "It's Been a Long, Long Time" and "I've Heard That Song Before."
        Many of their songs were written for Frank Sinatra, with whom Mr. Styne had a close but uneven relationship over the years.
        On Movie Musicals From the Stage
        Mr. Styne said he never liked working in the movies, in spite of his Oscar for "Three Coins in the Fountain" and seven additional nominations. "I don't like a director telling me what song goes where," he said. Nor was he pleased with Hollywood's adaptations of his Broadway successes, including "Gypsy" and "Funny Girl." "The movies destroyed every musical they ever made from the stage," he said.
        It was with Mr. Cahn and the choreographer Jerome Robbins that Mr. Styne wrote his first Broadway musical, "High Button Shoes" (1947). The show, starring Nanette Fabray and Phil Silvers, ran two and a half years.
        Teaming up with Leo Robin, he struck gold in 1949 with "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes," and so did the show's star, Miss Channing, propelled to stardom singing "Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend."
        The years afterward were a prolific time for Mr. Styne on Broadway. His work with Miss Comden and Mr. Green began with "Two on the Aisle" (1951), a revue starring Bert Lahr and Dolores Gray, and included last-minute songs added to "Peter Pan" (among them, "Never Never Land") before its 1954 opening with Miss Martin.
        In 1956, the team scored with "Bells Are Ringing." The songs included "Long Before I Knew You," "Just in Time" and "The Party's Over," and the star was Miss Holliday, who again performed her role as an answering-service operator in a 1960 film version of the show.
        Then in 1959 came "Gypsy," based on the memoirs of Gypsy Rose Lee, with Miss Merman introducing such numbers as "Everything's Coming Up Roses" and what Mr. Styne in 1987 called "probably the best song I've ever written": "Rose's Turn." Making a Star Of Barbra Streisand
        "Gypsy" was also Mr. Styne's only collaboration with Stephen Sondheim, who wrote the show's lyrics, and the pairing seemed to bring out the best in both of them. In a New York Times review of the 1989 revival of the musical starring Tyne Daly, Frank Rich wrote, "They brought out something in each other's talent that cannot quite be found in their extraordinary separate careers."
        After less dazzling fare in 1960 -- "Do Re Mi," about jukebox racketeers, and "Subways Are for Sleeping," about the homeless -- he soared again, with the lyricist Bob Merrill, in "Funny Girl" (1964), based on the life of the comedian Fanny Brice. With songs like "People," it made a star of Miss Streisand.
        "Fade Out, Fade In," opening that same year, lasted nine months. "Hallelujah, Baby!" (1967), his 18th show, starring Leslie Uggams, brought Mr. Styne a Tony.
        Mr. Styne also wrote scores for television and ballet and produced shows, including a successful revival of "Pal Joey," "Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?" and "Say, Darling."
        He was among five artists honored in 1990 by the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington for their cultural contributions to the nation. In 1992, he received the New Dramatists Lifetime Achievement Award.
        Mr. Styne was actively involved in the forthcoming revival of "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes," which is to open on Oct. 5 at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Conn.
        A voluble and opinionated critic of contemporary musical theater, he said he remained hopeful about its future and about his particular role in it. "I've had a goodly life," he said in 1990, "and I'm working as hard as I've ever worked. A sunny day when I can sit down and write, that's what makes life so good. And the brain is an amazing thing. I could sit down to write nine songs right now, and I don't know what would come out. That's the wonder of it all."
        Mr. Styne married Margaret Ann Bissett Brown, a English-born former model, in 1962, and they had two children, Nicholas and Katherine. He had two sons, Stanley and Norton, from his 1927 marriage to Ethel Rubenstein of Chicago, which ended in divorce in 1952.
        He is survived by his wife; two sons, Norton and Nicholas, both of Los Angeles; his daughter, Katherine, of Manhattan; a sister, Claire Bregman of Los Angeles; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. Let Me Entertain You
        In his long and productive career, Jule Styne composed hundreds of songs and wrote the music for some of Broadway's classic musicals. Here is a sampling of his prodigious output.  Songs
        I Don't Want to Walk Without You 1942, with Frank Loesser
        I'll Walk Alone 1944, with Sammy Cahn
        I Fall in Love Too Easily 1945, with Sammy Cahn
        Diamonds Are a Girl's Best Friend 1949, with Leo Robin
        Three Coins in the Fountain 1954, with Sammy Cahn
        Everything's Coming Up Roses 1959, with Stephen Sondheim
        Let Me Entertain You 1959, with Stephen Sondheim
        Make Someone Happy 1960, with Betty Comden and Adolph Green
        Don't Rain on My Parade 1964, with Bob Merrill
        People 1964, with Bob Merrill Broadway Shows
        High Button Shoes 1947
        Gentlemen Prefer Blondes 1949
        Two on the Aisle 1951
        Peter Pan 1954, with music also by Mark Charlap
        Bells Are Ringing 1956
        Gypsy 1959
        Subways Are for Sleeping 1961
        Funny Girl 1964
      