
        Dr. Donald M. Kaplan, a psychoanalyst and professor of psychology at New York University, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 67 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        The cause was an aortic aneurysm, said Dr. Mark Grunes, a colleague at N.Y.U.
        Until his death, Dr. Kaplan, who had a Ph.D. in psychology, taught in N.Y.U.'s postdoctoral program in psychotherapy and psychoanalysis. He began teaching in that program as an associate clinical professor in 1976, and he had been a clinical professor since 1983.
        He also maintained a private psychoanalytic practice until his death. Concurrently, he was a training and supervising analyst for candidates for the certificate in psychoanalysis awarded by the New York Freudian Society. The society and its Psychoanalytic Training Institute were founded in 1959 to provide training and a collegial community for psychoanalysts. Dr. Kaplan was president of the society from 1974 to 1978 and a former board member.
        As a training analyst for the society, he psychoanalyzed candidates in its training program. As a supervising analyst, he oversaw the work of advanced candidates who were carrying out psychoanalyses as part of their training.
        Dr. Kaplan was instrumental in having the society join the International Psychoanalytical Association, which has headquarters in London. He was recognized by the association as a training and supervising analyst.
        His many writings include the article "What Is Sublimated in Sublimation?" in The Journal of the American Psychoanalytic Association last year. From 1965 until his death he was on the editorial board of American Imago, the journal of the Association for Applied Psychoanalysis.
        He was born and reared in the Bronx, and he received a bachelor's degree from City College in 1949, a master's degree in English from Columbia in 1951 and a Ph.D. from N.Y.U. in 1960.
        He is survived by his wife of 44 years, Dr. Louise J. Kaplan, a psychoanalyst who is the author of books on childhood, adolescence and sexuality; a brother, Dr. Harvey Kaplan of Manhattan, also a psychoanalyst; a son, David, and a daughter, Ann, both of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      