
        The Rev. Daniel N. Corrigan, an Episcopal bishop whose long career was marked by campaigns for peace and human rights, died on Wednesday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 93 years old.
        The cause of death was internal bleeding after a fall at home last week, said Timothy Corrigan, a grandson.
        Bishop Corrigan supported the ordination of women, demonstrated against the war in Vietnam, marched with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. on Washington and sat with him when Dr. King delivered his "I have a dream" speech in 1963.
        Beginning in the 1930's, Bishop Corrigan worked with the Minnesota Council of Human Relations on behalf of American Indians. In the 1970's he was one of the first priests to speak out at the general convention of the Episcopal Church in advocating gay rights and the ordination of homosexuals.
        "He was willing to put his reputation and his office and his body and his very person on the line for the things he believed in," said one of his sons, the Rev. Michael Corrigan of Brookline, Mass. "He had a great sense of fighting for things, for issues of justice and peace and against injustice."
        Daniel Corrigan was born Oct. 25, 1900, in Rochester, Minn. The son of Herbert Corrigan, an engineer, and the former Catherine Burns, a professional harpist, he grew up mostly in California and Mexico.
        He graduated from Los Angeles High School in 1917 and promptly enlisted in the Navy, seeing action in the North Atlantic in the submarine service in World War I.
        When the war ended, he joined the merchant marine and traveled around the world for several years before coming to Boston. There he married Miriam Wallace, who died giving birth to Mr. Corrigan's son David.
        At about that time, Mr. Corrigan developed an interest in the ministry, and entered Nashotah House, a seminary in Nashotah, Wis., in 1922. He was ordained a deacon in 1924 and a priest in 1925.
        Discussing Mr. Corrigan's decision to enter the priesthood, his son Michael said: "I suspect it had a great deal to do with his time in the service. He showed a lot of pastoral concern for the people he encountered in the service. He wrote letters for illiterate shipmates. I think he always wanted to go into the ministry."
        Early in his career, Mr. Corrigan served as pastor in Portage, Wis., Oconomoc, Wis., Baltimore and St. Paul.
        In 1958, at age 60, he was offered two bishoprics on the same day: Suffragan Bishop of Colorado and Bishop of the Diocese of Quincy at Peoria, Ill.
        He took the post in Colorado. Two years later, he became director of the Home Department of the executive council of the Episcopal Church. In that position, he directed its three divisions: domestic mission, college work and Christian ministries.
        In 1963, when he was urging the church to quicken the pace of its political and social action, he was one of 283 civil rights demonstrators arrested at the segregated Gwynn Oak Amusement Park near Baltimore.
        In 1969, he was part of a group of clergymen opposed to the war in Vietnam who opened a drive to raise money for American deserters and draft resisters in Canada.
        In 1970, he was among a number of Jewish and Protestant clergymen who asked Federal prison authorities to permit Daniel and Philip Berrigan, two Roman Catholic priests imprisoned for destroying draft records, to be permitted to prepare sermons for use outside prison.
        That same year, he was part of a peace fellowship group that conducted a Mass on the steps of the Pentagon in Washington.
        He was censured by the House of Bishops of the Episcopal Church in 1974 after he participated in the ordination of 11 female deacons to the priesthood. At the time, the church did not allow women to become priests as it does now.
        In 1969 Bishop Corrigan became philosopher in residence and minister to Amherst College. Beginning in 1970, he served for two years as dean of Bexley Hall, part of the Colgate-Rochester Divinity School in Rochester, N.Y.
        He retired in 1970 and moved to Santa Barbara but remained active within the church. In his later years, he assisted the Bishop of Los Angeles with confirmations, ordinations and other church rituals and remained involved with the church until five or six years ago.
        In many of the campaigns he waged, he was accompanied by his wife, the former Elizabeth Waters, whom he married in 1926.
        In addition to his wife, Bishop Corrigan is survived by four sons, Daniel, of Chapel Hill, N.C., Patrick, of Minneapolis, John, of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and Michael; 18 grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      