
        Artur Balsam, a pianist best known as a chamber player and as an elegant accompanist for violinists and cellists, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was pneumonia, said Dan Berlinghoff, a friend and student of the pianist.
        From the 1940's to the 1970's, Mr. Balsam was heard regularly in collaboration with some of the great musicians of the century. He was a regular collaborator with Nathan Milstein, David Oistrakh, Joseph and Lillian Fuchs, Leonid Kogan, Zino Francescatti, Pierre Fournier and Mstislav Rostropovich. He also performed frequently with the Kroll, Budapest and Juilliard String Quartets and other chamber groups and in piano duos with Beveridge Webster, Gina Raps and Murray Perahia.
        He continued to give occasional performances in chamber music concerts; his last public appearance was with the Music Project at Weill Recital Hall in February 1993. He also made about 250 recordings, both as an accompanist and as a soloist. His recordings of some of the Mozart Piano Concertos were highly praised when they were released in the late 1950's. Debut at 12 in Poland
        Mr. Balsam was born in Warsaw on Feb. 8, 1906. He made his formal concert debut in Lodz when he was 12 and studied at the Lodz Conservatory and, in the late 1920's, at the Berlin State Academy of Music. He won the International Piano Competition in Berlin in 1930 and the Mendelssohn Prize the next year. But he was drawn to ensemble playing and made his first tour of the United States in 1932 with the violinist Yehudi Menuhin.
        Mr. Balsam continued to tour with Mr. Menuhin through the 1930's and settled in New York in 1940. He quickly became the favorite accompanist of many touring soloists and also spent five years as the pianist of the NBC Symphony Orchestra under Arturo Toscanini. In the 1960's, he toured as a member of a piano trio with William Kroll, a violinist, and Benar Heifetz, a cellist.
        As a soloist, he was most at home in the Classical and early Romantic repertory. A renowned Mozartean who composed his own cadenzas for several of the concertos, he was the soloist in a series of BBC broadcasts that celebrated the bicentennial of Mozart's birth in 1956. He recorded all of Mozart's and Haydn's solo piano music, the Mozart Violin Sonatas (with Oscar Shumsky) and the Beethoven Violin Sonatas (with Mr. Fuchs) and Cello Sonatas (with Zara Nelsova).
        He taught at the Eastman School of Music, Boston University and the Manhattan School of Music, and from 1956 to 1992 he led summer classes at Kneisel Hall in Blue Hill, Me.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth.
      