
        Oliver J. Lissitzyn, an authority on international air law who taught at Columbia University, died on Saturday at the Hughes Convalescent Home, in West Hartford, Conn., where he lived. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Lawrence, through a spokeswoman.
        Professor Lissitzyn retired in 1980 from Columbia, where he taught for 34 years and was Hamilton Fish Professor of International Law and Diplomacy.
        His writings include a 1953 article titled "The Treatment of Aerial Intruders in Recent Practice and International Law," in the American Journal of International Law, in which he wrote, "In its efforts to control the movements of intruding aircraft the territorial sovereign must not expose the aircraft and its occupants to unnecessary or unreasonably great danger -- unreasonably great, that is, in relation to the reasonably apprehended harmfulness of the intrusion."
        Among his books are "International Air Transport and National Policy" (1942, AMS Press), "The International Court of Justice" (1951, Hippocrene Books and Greenwood ) and "International Law Today and Tomorrow" (1965). He was formerly on the board of editors of the American Journal of International Law, and in 1969 and 1970 he was a visiting professor at the United States Naval War College in Newport, R.I.
        Professor Lissitzyn was born in Moscow. His father was at one time a lawyer and a member of the Council of the Moscow Bar. He came to the United States in 1923 and grew up in New York City. He received a bachellor's degree in 1933 and a law degree in 1935, both from Columbia, and a PhD in 1942 from Columbia's Department of Public Law and Government.
        He rose to be an Army captain during World War II and was assigned to the Office of Strategic Services in Washington from 1941 to 1943.
        In 1944 he married Elizabeth Hyde, daughter of Charles Cheney Hyde, who held the Hamilton Fish Chair of International Law and Diplomacy at Columbia before he did. His wife died in 1981.
        In addition to his son, who lives in West Hartford, Professor Lissitzyn is survived by three grandchildren.
      