
        Irving Mitchell Felt, a highly successful businessman who led the drive in the 1960's to build a new Madison Square Garden on West 33d Street, died at his home on Thursday. He was 84.
        Mr. Felt, for whom the Garden's Felt Forum, now the Paramount Theater, was named, also had wide influence over the New York metropolitan area's sports world.
        It was under his direction as a president of the Madison Square Garden Corporation that it bought the New York Rangers hockey club, the New York Knickerbockers basketball club, Roosevelt Raceway on Long Island and Holiday on Ice Productions, which put on ice shows.
        As a president and chairman of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, he was a major fund-raiser for Jewish causes.
        He was also active in the arts, having been a member of the board of directors of the Metropolitan Opera Association for 20 years, a founding patron of the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and a national trustee of the Joffrey Ballet.
        While overseeing the $140 million construction of the new Garden on Seventh Avenue at West 33d Street, he was also chairman or a major guiding executive in about 20 corporations, including Louis Sherry restaurants and the Hotel Corporation of America, which owned 26 major hotels including the Plaza in New York City.
        Perhaps his most lasting monument was the new Garden complex, which opened on Feb. 11, 1968, with a gala benefit that featured Bob Hope and Bing Crosby and netted about $800,000 for charity.
        He had a flair for the grandiose and was not easily deterred by such bureaucracies as city agencies. He also struggled with some of New York's mayors, threatening to move the Kicks and Rangers out of New York to get some tax relief for his sports empire.
        A highly disciplined man who began his day with a brisk walk from his office at 410 Park Avenue in the 1960's, he often put in 14-hour days.
        He liked moving from one thing to another. A typical day would include such a wide variety of tasks as a meeting with executives of the Rangers to discuss a player trade, then lunch with executives from various companies that he headed, then off to meetings at Federation headquarters to discuss fund-raising.
        After a nap and sometimes a Turkish bath, he would be off again for another late-evening business meeting.
        He also liked to catch the first two acts of an opera at the Metropolitan and then dash over to his prize, the Garden, to catch the last period of a Knicks or Rangers game.
        He had a modest manner and would often melt into the crowd at the new Garden or the Felt Forum.
        He studied and knew well the tastes of the different audiences that came to the basketball and hockey games and the fights.
        "At the old Garden, they could throw things," he observed just before the opening of the new Garden in 1968. "But here it's much easier to keep order."
        He explained that this was because the balcony seats in the old Garden, on Eighth Avenue at West 49th Street, extended over part of the arena floor, while the seats were much farther back in the new Garden.
        He and his staff closely followed the trends in rock music, bringing in Elvis Presley for his first performance in New York, putting on a concert to raise money for Bangladesh with George Harrison and being host to a birthday party for Mick Jagger.
        One of the most successful events under his tutorship was the Muhammad Ali-Joe Frazier "Fight of the Century" on March 8, 1971, which grossed more than $1.3 million, the biggest gate for any of the Madison Square Gardens up to that time.
        Mr. Felt was born on Jan. 25, 1910, and grew up around West 140th Street. His father was a lawyer. He graduated from the Wharton School of Finance at age 19 and got a $25-a-week job with a Wall Street concern, Hayden Stone.
        Nine years later, he struck out on his own. He helped to reorganize an investment firm, Graham-Paige. When the firm had an opportunity to acquire a controlling interest in the old Madison Square Garden, he jumped at the chance. The firm bought an interest in 1959 and eventually gained control.
        The Garden was then 35 years old, and Mr. Felt began to search for an alternative site. In November 1960 he got an offer from the Pennsylvania Railroad for the rights to build at Penn Station. He spent the next eight years overseeing the project, taking pride that it was privately financed during a era when such huge projects were increasingly done with financial help from local governments.
        At his death, he was chairman of the Felt Foundation and director and chairman of the compensation committee and a member of the audit committee of the Triarc Companies.
        Nelson Peltz, the chairman of Triarc and a longtime friend, said that Mr. Felt was a tremendous force in the humanities.
        Mr. Felt is survived by his wife, Serene; his son, Jonathan, and four grandchildren.
      