
        Rabbi Joseph B. Glaser, executive vice president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis, the association of Reform rabbis, died on Wednesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 69.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Francine I. Urist, a member of the conference's staff.
        Rabbi Glaser became executive vice president in 1971. At his death he was on a six-month sabbatical. In the post, he directed the operations and activities of the conference, an organization of 1,700 rabbis, mainly in North America. Its headquarters is at 192 Lexington Avenue, near 32d Street.
        Rabbi Glaser played a central role in important positions taken by the conference. These included the 1990 decision that sexual orientation should not bar membership in the conference and that all Jews, regardless of orientation, have a right to full participation in Jewish life. At the same time, the conference reaffirmed the ideal of a monogamous, procreative marital relationship.
        Rabbi Glaser was active on behalf of many groups, including migrant farm workers in California, American Indians, Tibetan refugees and Israelis.
        At his death, he was also chairman of Religion in American Life, a non-sectarian organization with more than 50 component groups, whose goals include strengthening the nation's faith in God.
        He was also on the executive committee of the Synagogue Council of America and the Union of American Hebrew Congregations. He was on the board of American Jewish World Service and other organizations.
        Rabbi Glaser was born in Boston, growing up there and in Rochester. He was wounded twice as an infantryman in Europe in World War II. He graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1948 and received a law degree from the University of San Francisco in 1951. He also was awarded bachelor's and master's degrees in Hebrew letters in 1954 and 1956, both from Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion.
        He was ordained a rabbi in 1956. From 1956 to 1959, he was the rabbi of Temple Beth Torah in Ventura, Calif. From 1959 to 1971, he was a San Francisco regional director for the Union of American Hebrew Congregations.
        He is survived by his wife, Agathe; three sons, Rabbi Simeon, of West Hartford, Conn., Meyer, of Yonkers, and John, of New Haven; a daughter, Sara, of Oakland, Calif.; five grandchildren, and a brother, William, of Medford, Ore.
        Funeral services will be at noon on Sunday in Congregation Rodeph Shalom, 7 West 83d Street.
      