
        Robert Bloch, the prolific mystery writer whose novel "Psycho" was adapted for the classic Alfred Hitchcock horror film, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 77.
        The cause was cancer of the esophagus and the kidneys, said his daughter, Sally Francy of Los Gatos, Calif.
        Mr. Bloch had joked to friends that his obituary would begin with "Psycho," a novel that was just a tiny part of his flood of work. And indeed it is his psychological mysteries thatfellow writers said yesterday would be his principal legacy.
        Ray Bradbury, for instance, said the 1960 film of "Psycho" marked "the beginning of a dark period when we made films based on psychotic reality rather than mythological things."
        "Suddenly," Mr. Bradbury continued, "we were confronted with the fact that our showers were not safe."
        The author Harlan Ellison even went so far as to say Mr. Bloch "was surely on a level with Poe."
        "He set the tone for the modern dark fantasy," Mr. Ellison said, adding that Mr. Bloch was one of the first authors to examine the minds of serial killers. He based "Psycho" on the case of Ed Gein, an outwardly mild-mannered multiple killer in Plainfield, Wis., in the 1950's.
        Mr. Bloch's works ranged widely. In addition to mysteries, he wrote fantasies, essays and humor. He sold his first story at the age of 17 and was nourished by the pulp magazines of the 1930's and 40's. He went on to write more than 20 novels and dozens of film and television scripts. Many of his stories have been adapted for radio, television and film.
        Mr. Ellison said one story Mr. Bloch wrote in the 1940's, "Yours Truly, Jack the Ripper," had been presented on radio more than 300 times and on television half a dozen.  He said Mr. Bloch's characterization of the famous criminal became the Ripper's general image.
        Mr. Bloch himself was described by Mr. Ellison as "the kindest, gentlest human being who ever lived." He speculated that Mr. Bloch's interest in the criminal mind had arisen from his own open and honest personality. "These characters were so utterly alien to him," he said.
        Mr. Bloch was eager to lend assistance to younger writers, including Stephen King. Mr. Bradbury, for instance, recalled that when he was only 26 he attended a science fiction convention where Mr. Bloch raced across the room to shake his hand. "That does wonders for your ego," Mr. Bradbury said.
        Robert Albert Bloch was born on April 5, 1917, in Chicago. A main influence in his youth was H. P. Lovecraft, the writer of fantasy and horror, who corresponded with him and encouraged his writing.
        Mr. Bloch, whose formal education did not extend beyond high school, first sold a story in 1934, to the pulp magazine "Weird Tales." In the 1950's, he moved to Los Angeles to write scripts for low-budget horror films and for television shows like "Alfred Hitchcock Presents" and the original "Star Trek."
        He was a close friend of the actors Boris Karloff and Basil Rathbone, perennial players in horror films, but came to dislike the graphic violence of modern horror movies. "I'm quite squeamish about them," he said in 1991.
        Surprise endings were a trademark of his stories, which often described everyday worlds that turned out to be anything but normal. In one of his most famous stories, "The Hellbound Train," the Devil gives a man a watch to stop time, but the man can never decide to use it. At the last moment, as he is riding a train bound for hell and filled with drunks, prostitutes and gamblers, he uses it -- and rides on for eternity.
        Mr. Bloch banged out his stories on an old manual typewriter. In August, he typed out notes for his own obituary, saying he did not want to cheat readers out of a surprise ending. In those notes, he specified that his ashes be placed in a book-shaped urn at the University of Wyoming, to whose American Heritage Center he left his personal memorabilia.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Eleanor, and his sister, Winifred Marcus.
      