
        Charles S. (Chub) Feeney, the high-spirited baseball executive who helped guide his family's Giants to two National League pennants in New York and one in San Francisco before spending 17 years as the league's president, died yesterday at California Pacific Hospital in San Francisco. He was 72.
        Mr. Feeney, who had been admitted to the hospital a week ago after suffering a heart attack, died after a second attack, the hospital said.
        From the time he became a minor league batboy until his resignation after a 15-month stint as president of the San Diego Padres in 1988, Mr. Feeney, known as Chub since he was a baby, was one of baseball's most exuberant and endearing figures.
        A tailored, square-faced extrovert who was rarely without a smile, Mr. Feeney went through baseball life trailing cigar smoke and creating anecdotes in his wake.
        There was, for example, the time young Willie McCovey, a future Hall of Famer, began a conversation by calling the executive "Chub," only to be told, "Mr. Feeney to you, kid." Later, when McCovey returned to the clubhouse after hitting a grand slam home run and greeted the executive with a respectful "Mr. Feeney," the tables of respect had been turned. "You can call me Chub," Mr. Feeney replied.
        Charles Stoneham Feeney came by his noblesse oblige honestly. He was born in Orange, N.J., on Aug., 31, 1921, three years after his grandfather, Charles Stoneham, a broker who owned a small stable of race horses and was a crony of Al Smith and other Tammany Hall politicians, had paid $1 million for a controlling interest in the New York Giants.
        By the time Mr. Feeney had graduated from Dartmouth in 1943 and served in the Navy in World War II, the club was in the hands of his uncle, Horace Stoneham, who welcomed the returning veteran back in 1946 with a front-office job.
        After working part time while attending Fordham Law School, Mr. Feeney was made a vice president, and by 1950 he was effectively serving as the Giants' general manager.
        His greatest success as a club executive came in 1954, when the Giants swept the Cleveland Indians in four games in the World Series. That triumph was bracketed by Series losses to the Yankees in 1951 and 1962, by which time the Giants were in San Francisco.
        Reluctant at first to follow his uncle and the team to San Francisco in 1958, Mr. Feeney soon became so enchanted with the city that when he became National League president in 1970 he moved the league offices there.
        While the Giants played their first two seasons in the old Seals Stadium, Mr. Feeney was so eager to move into the new Candlestick Park that he made frequent morning visits to the construction site.
        During a rare afternoon visit, Mr. Feeney was so alarmed by the chilling, near gale-force winds that he asked one of the construction workers if the winds were that bad all the time.
        "Naw," the man reassuringly replied, "only between 1 and 5 in the afternoon."
        In 1969, Mr. Feeney was the unanimous National League choice to succeed William Eckert as baseball commissioner. But most American League owners supported the Yankees executive Michael Burke. After 17 deadlocked ballots, the owners settled on a compromise candidate, Bowie Kuhn, who had been the National League general counsel.
        Mr. Feeney succeeded Warren Giles as National League president the next year and held the post until he stepped down in 1986. He regarded his holding the line against the designated hitter as the main achievement of his league presidency.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret Ann; three sons, Charles Jr., John and William; two daughters, Katy, vice president of media relations for the National League, and Mary Hall; a brother, Robert Aufderhar; two sisters, Sue McDonald and Joan Clarke, and three grandchildren.
      