
        Alpheus C. Beane, a Wall Street investment banker for more than five decades, died last Wednesday in Aurora, Colo., where he was vacationing. He was 84.
        Mr. Beane, who lived in Delray Beach, Fla., where he had moved from Greenwich, Conn., in 1978, died of heart failure, his family said.
        After graduating from Yale University in 1931 Mr. Beane began his financial career at Fenner & Beane, a brokerage and commodities firm founded by his father; in 1941 it became part of what is now Merrill Lynch & Company.
        Mr. Beane was a partner at Fenner & Beane and then at Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane until 1958, when he left to found another securities firm, J. R. Williston & Beane Inc.
        In the fall of 1963, Williston & Beane began to have financial difficulties when it failed to meet capital requirements at the New York Stock Exchange and the American Stock Exchange after the bankruptcy of a client, the Allied Crude Vegetable Oil and Refining Company, which was unable to meet margin calls on soybean and cottonseed futures clients.
        A $500,000 loan from Merrill Lynch led to Williston & Beane's reinstatement by the exchanges, but in December the firm was absorbed by Walston & Company, an international securities and commodities broker.
        Two years later, Mr. Beane was named a partner at Reynolds & Company, and became a vice president and member of the executive committee when the firm was incorporated as Reynolds Securities & Company in 1971. He remained with the firm and its successor, Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., until his retirement in 1986.
        During his career on Wall Street, Mr. Beane served on the boards of the American Stock Exchange, the New York Cotton Exchange and the Cocoa Exchange.
        His first marriage, to Jean Tegder, ended in divorce in 1957. His second wife, Elizabeth Geren Beane, died in 1992.
        He is survived by a son, Alpheus Jr., of Chappaqua, N.Y., two grandchildren and two stepchildren.
      