
        Dr. Archer Gordon, a heart specialist who helped perfect modern cardiopulmonary resuscitation, died on Sept. 18 at Los Robles Hospital in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 73 and lived in Camarillo, Calif.
        He died of complications from diabetes, said his son Richard, of Sherman Oaks, Calif.
        In the 1950's Dr. Gordon conducted ground-breaking studies at the University of Illinois at Chicago showing that mouth-to-mouth resuscitation, developed by Dr. Peter Safar, now at the University of Pittsburgh, was vastly superior for children to the manual methods commonly used at the time.
        In 1963 Dr. Gordon, along with Dr. Safar and two others, founded the CPR Committee, later the Emergency Cardiac Care Committee, of the American Heart Association. In the 1960's Dr. Gordon combined the mouth-to-mouth technique with the chest compression technique developed by a group of researchers at Johns Hopkins University to form modern CPR, a life-saving technique intended to revive victims of heart attack, drowning and choking.
        Together with Asmund Laerdul, a Norwegian doll manufacturer, Dr. Gordon developed mannequins and used them in training.
        Dr. Gordon wrote "Standards for CPR," which was adopted by the American Medical Association, American Heart Association and the American Red Cross.
        Although hailed by some of his colleagues as the "father of CPR," Dr. Gordon disclaimed the title and credited his research associates for the achievements.  In 1985 he was given an award by the American Heart Association for his work in  developing CPR.
        Dr. Gordon retired as medical director of the Gould Medical Corporation, a manufacturer of medical equipment in Oxnard Calif., in 1986. He also was a research scientist at the University of California at Los Angeles.
        Besides his son Richard, Dr. Gordon is survived by his wife, Pansy; two other sons, Dean, of South Pasadena, Calif., and Jon, of Thousand Oaks, and three grandchildren.
      