
        Danny Gatton, a guitarist who applied dazzling technique to down-home styles, died on Tuesday at his farm in Newburg, Md. He was 49.
        He died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound, said Detective James Whitcraft of the Charles County sheriff's office.
        Mr. Gatton was revered by musicians for his speed and for a style he called "redneck jazz," a sliding, twanging, genre-bending amalgam of country music, blues, rockabilly and jazz. He also played banjo and pedal steel guitar. In 1990, Guitar Player magazine named him "the world's greatest unknown guitarist." More recently, Fender began manufacturing a Danny Gatton Signature guitar.
        He made two albums for Elektra Records, in 1991 and 1993; he also recorded for small independent labels. Because he was reluctant to tour or to move away from southern Maryland, most of his performances were in clubs in the Washington area, where he was a local musical hero. During his career, he won 19 Wammy Awards from the Washington Area Music Association.
        Mr. Gatton was already a guitar virtuoso when he began making home recordings and performing at high-school dances at the age of 12. He joined a local band, the Offbeats, when he was 14 years old, and worked with country and rockabilly singers including Roger Miller and Robert Gordon. In the mid-1970's, he led his own group, Danny and the Fat Boys, and made his first album, "American Music," for Aladdin Records; he released "Redneck Jazz" in 1978 and "Unfinished Business" in 1987.
        His first album for Elektra, "88 Elmira Street," was instrumental; his second, "Cruisin' Deuces," included vocals by Rodney Crowell and Delbert McClinton. He was dropped from Elektra; his most recent album, "Relentless," was a collaboration with the jazz organist Joey DeFrancesco, released on an independent label, Big Mo.
        Mr. Gatton is survived by his wife, Jan; a daughter, Holly, and a brother, Brent, all in Maryland, as well as his mother, Norma, and a sister, Donna, both of Alpharetta, Ga.
      