
        Donald B. Smiley, an Iowa storekeeper's son who retired as chairman and chief executive of R. H. Macy & Company in 1980 after 35 years, died on Sunday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 78 and a resident of Greenwich.
        He had a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Smiley was born in Albany, Ill., and raised in Davenport, Iowa. He graduated from Augustana College in Illinois, earned a law degree at Northwestern University in 1940 and was admitted that year to the New York bar. He practiced law in New York for two years, served as a lieutenant in the United States Naval Reserve in World War II and joined Macy's legal staff in 1945, after his return to civilian life.
        He became Macy's company secretary and general attorney in 1953; vice president, treasurer and director in 1956, and executive vice president and treasurer, a new post, in 1964. He rose to vice chairman and treasurer two years later and was elected chairman in 1968. He added the title of chief executive officer in 1971.
        With Mr. Smiley at the helm, Macy's expanded its chain of stores and began to open on Sundays in August 1976, a policy he pronounced "good for the city and a help to employment." He made Sunday hours permanent in November.
        In 1975, Mr. Smiley was named to a panel of four to map a plan to overcome the city's severe fiscal crisis. The plan completed, he left, and a fellow panel member, Felix G. Rohatyn, led the implementation.
        Mr. Smiley was a trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and a director of many prominent businesses, including RCA Corporation, Ralston Purina Company, NBC, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and the New York Stock Exchange.
        Mr. Smiley is survived by his wife of 51 years, Dick Cutter Smiley; three daughters, Margot Humphrey of Chevy Chase, Md., Sandra Weiksner of Manhattan, and Daryl Smiley of Concord, Mass.; a son, Stafford of Washington; a brother, Robert of West Des Moines, Iowa; a sister, Dorothy Siegele of San Jose, Calif., and eight grandchildren.
      