
        Dr. Robert K. Match, a former president and chief executive of Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park, L.I., died on Thursday in an accident on the Long Island Expressway. He was 68 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in East Hampton, L.I.
        He died after a collision with a gasoline tanker, which flipped onto the car he was driving and exploded, the police said. The accident took place on the border of Islip and Smithtown near Commack in western Suffolk County.
        After 25 years as chief executive of the medical center, Dr. Match retired last year and became a consultant in the health-service field. In earlier years, he had served as chairman of the Hospital Association of New York State and of the Greater New York Hospital Association.
        Dr. Match was the medical center's president from 1977 to 1993, its chief executive from 1968 to 1993, and a staff surgeon from 1957 to 1977.
        During his time at the medical center's helm, its facilities and operations were greatly expanded. "He was an extremely effective administrator who had a terrific vision," said Rosalie Kershaw, a spokeswoman for the center. Dr. Match oversaw the center's growth from a community hospital to a three-division medical center where teaching and research are conducted.
        Additions to the center in Dr. Match's era included a 150-bed children's hospital. In 1989, he was instrumental in bringing about the center's designation as the Long Island campus for the Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
        Over the years his other administrative roles included serving as a director of Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Greater New York, of the Healthcare Association of New York State and of the League of Voluntary Hospitals and Homes of New York. He also taught at medical schools.
        He was born and raised in Brooklyn, and served in the Army and Navy during World War II. After studying at New York University and Ohio State University, he received his M.D. from the State University of New York's Downstate Medical Center in 1950. He interned at Jewish Hospital of Brooklyn and had residencies at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Brooklyn and at New York Medical College in Manhattan.
        Dr. Match went on to become assistant attending surgeon at Flower Fifth Avenue and Metropolitan hospitals in Manhattan and medical director of the East Nassau Medical Group in Hicksville, L.I., where he was also chief of surgery.
        His marriages to Doris Selwyn and Gloria Curtis ended in divorce.
        He is survived by two daughters, Vicki Match Suna of Queens and Sasha Match of Oakland, Calif.; two grandchildren, and a sister, Thelma Wilhelm of Great Neck, L.I.
      