
        Niels K. Jerne, a London-born immunologist and co-recipient of the 1984 Nobel Prize for medicine, died yesterday at his home in Pont du Gard in southern France. He was 82.
        He had been suffering from cancer of the throat for about a year, said a cousin, Campbell Moses of New York.
        Dr. Jerne -- pronounced YER-nee -- was director of the Basel Institute of Immunology, in Switzerland, for 11 years, until 1980. He then taught and lectured in Paris and elsewhere before retiring a decade ago.
        Arthur M. Silverstein, a professor at Johns Hopkins University's medical school, wrote in his book "A History of Immunology" (Academic Press, 1989) that Dr. Jerne's contributions to immunology were "almost too numerous to record," and his "theoretical contributions helped to bring immunology and immunologists to their current important position in the biomedical sciences."
        The 1984 prize went to Dr. Jerne, who had dual Danish and British citizenship, and to two other researchers for their research on the human immune system. He was designated a co-winner in recognition of the role that his pioneering theories had in spurring research in immunology.
        Dr. Jerne's co-recipients were Cesar Milstein of the British Medical Research Council's laboratory in Cambridge, England; and Georges J. F. Kohler of the Basel Institute of Immunology.
        The announcement of the prize, from the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, described Dr. Jerne as "the leading theoretician in immunology during the last 30 years."
        He was cited especially for three important theories of immunology that together offered a coherent general image of the immune defenses. They were built on findings from research that Dr. Jerne himself carried out, and also incorporated the fruits of work by many other researchers.
        The first theory provided an explanation, which was generally accepted by 1984, of the fashion in which antibodies are generated to match any possible bacterium, virus or other intruder into the body. The second theory presented an inclusive picture of how the immune defense system develops and matures.
        The third and newest of the theories was first propounded in the mid- 1970's and became known as the network theory. This was a logical and elaborate explanation of the interactive processes by which the body's immune system goes into action, when needed to fight disease, and later lapses into inactivity when it is no longer needed. Before he became director of the Basel Institute, in whose founding he had been instrumental, Dr. Jerne was the chief medical officer for immunology with the World Health Organization in Geneva from 1956 to 1962 and concurrently taught biophysics at the University of Geneva, from 1960 to 1962.
        From 1962 to 1966, he was chairman of the microbiology department at the University of Pittsburgh. He went on to be a professor at the university in Frankfurt from 1966 to 1969 and to serve as director of the Paul-Ehrlich-Institute there in those years. He taught at the Pasteur Institute in Paris from 1981 to 1982.
        Dr. Jerne was born in London to parents who were Danish citizens, grew up in London and Denmark and studied physics at the University of Leiden in the Netherlands and medicine at the University of Copenhagen in Denmark, where he received his M.D. in 1951, when he was 40, after years as a researcher at the Danish State Serum Institute. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Alexandra Kohl, and by two sons from a previous marriage.
      