
        Fred Lebow, who created the New York City Marathon and developed it into not only the largest such race in the world but also a citywide celebration, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 62.
        The cause of death was brain cancer. He was admitted to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center on Feb. 17 after a magnetic resonance imaging revealed a recurrence of lymphoma of the brain, which was first diagnosed in 1990. He also underwent surgery in 1991 to have a malignant tumor removed from his thyroid gland.
        Because of his failing health, he was inducted into the National Track Hall of Fame on Aug. 23 in a special ceremony in Manhattan, more than three months before other inductees would be so honored in St. Louis.
        "I'm flattered and honored, and I don't deserve it," he said in a whisper at the ceremony in Central Park. "I'm just a peon. I'm awed and embarrassed."
        While his cancer was in remission, Mr. Lebow decided in 1992 to run in his own marathon for the first time since it expanded into all five boroughs in 1976.
        His doctors tried to tell him that it was not necessary for him to finish the race, but he never considered stopping short of his objective and completed the 26 miles 385 yards in 5 hours 32 minutes 34 seconds. At the finish line in Central Park, he and Grete Waitz of Norway, the nine-time women's winner of the event and his running partner every step of the way, fell into a tearful embrace.
        After keeping a promise to kiss the finish line, he captured the spirit of the race by saying, "I never believed so many people would watch a miserable runner two hours behind."
        For all the growth of the New York Road Runners Club under his leadership, including 20 years as president, Mr. Lebow (pronounced LEE-boh) will be remembered as the creator and promoter of the marathon, which has always seemed to celebrate the city as much as the runners. This year's race, on Nov. 6, will mark the 25th New York City Marathon.
        In 1970, the first year it was held, bankrolled by $300 of Mr. Lebow's money, 127 runners started and 55 finished. The runners never left Central Park and few beyond their friends and families even knew such an event existed.
        As the years passed, the race grew in number and profile, playing a large role in the expanding popularity of long-distance road racing in the United States and elsewhere.
        Within six years of the marathon's inaugural, the New York course was changed to include all five boroughs, and by 1989, the race set records for the number of starters (24,996), finishers (24,314) and percentage of finishers (97.3), even though recently the number of runners has been slightly reduced to unclog the start. Among the participants have been runners of world-class caliber from scores of nations, whose presence each year increased in number and drew enormous worldwide attention to both the race and Mr. Lebow, the race director.
        On race day, Mr. Lebow was always ahead of the pack, riding in the pace car, making sure everything was just so along the course. And if the crowds lining the route cheered for him, too, well, he could bear it. How many others of his job description had brought a foot race to such universal renown?
        And there were also unique events he helped develop into annual staples on the running calendar, like the Fifth Avenue Mile; the L'eggs mini-marathon, the first distance race for women only; the Empire State Building Run-Up, a quarter-mile race up 1,550 steps, and the New York Games, an international outdoor track-and-field meet that became a fixture on the world calendar.
        But on a daily basis, the New York City Marathon, more than any other event, was his prime concern. He was principally interested in signing the world's best runners for the race. To do so, he traveled extensively to attend other marathons, to introduce himself, to preach the joys of New York City in November. Over the years, his guest list included many of the best distance runners in history, including Waitz, Ingrid Kristiansen of Norway, Rob de Castella of Australia, Juma Ikangaa of Tanzania, Ibrahim Hussein of Kenya and leading American runners like Alberto Salazar and Bill Rodgers.
        "People devoted to a single cause are usually a little crazy," Henry Stern, the former Commissioner of Parks and Recreation, once said of Mr. Lebow. "That's what you expect and you don't judge them by normal standards. I'd call him a combination of Joseph Papp and Truman Capote. Papp, in his single-minded promotion and development of an institution, and Capote in some of his odd behavior. But, Lebow delivers and Lebow performs. If you're asking me if New York City is better off because Fred Lebow is around, the answer is yes."
        Fischl Lebowitz was born in Arad, a town in the Transylvania region of Romania, on June 3, 1932. After surviving Nazi occupation in World War II, he and his Orthodox Jewish family, which included four brothers and two sisters, escaped the country in different directions before the Soviet takeover at the end of the war. Mr. Lebow, then a teen-ager, made his way through Czechoslovakia, the Netherlands and Ireland before reaching the United States in the early 1960's. Other members of his family settled in Israel and the United States.
        In Manhattan, he attended the Fashion Institute of Technology. After brief periods in Cleveland and Kansas City, he returned to New York and worked in the garment district through the 1970's, marketing knockoffs.
        At the time, tennis was his avocation. But he found that losing a match nullified many of the benefits. To build his stamina, he tried distance running, and it changed his life. In 1970, he ran 13 marathons, including the first in New York. In 1973, he became president of the Road Runners. He was in love with running, and it showed: the only difference between his participating in a race and making a deal was his clothes. Racing, he wore shorts with his running shoes. Negotiating, he wore a suit with his running shoes.
        "When I worked, I was a very hard worker," he said in an interview in 1980. "One beautiful spring day, I was in my office early in the afternoon, and on sudden impulse, I left, went up to 90th Street and started running. It was wonderful, and I told myself that if it was so important to me, it would be immoral not to deliver the message to others."
        He is survived by three brothers, Michael Lebov of Chicago, Simcha Lebowitz of Brooklyn and Schlomo Lebowitz of Tel Aviv; two sisters, Sarah Katz of Monsey, N.Y., and Esther Greenfeld of Haifa, Israel, and many nieces and nephews.
        Services will be private. Open to the public will be a memorial tribute held by the New York Road Runners Club on Wednesday at 12:30 P.M. at the New York City Marathon finish line in Central Park, near Tavern on the Green.
      