
        Michael Flannery, a controversial grand marshal of the St. Patrick's Day Parade because of his strong support of the Irish Republican Army, died Friday afternoon at the age of 92.
        Mr. Flannery, who worked four decades in the actuarial department of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died of internal bleeding at Flushing Hospital in Queens, said Thomas Enright, a friend. Mr. Enright said Mr. Flannery had fallen in the bathroom of his home in Jackson Heights.
        The fight of the Irish against the British was the great theme of Mr. Flannery's life. As a boy of 14 in Ireland, he joined the Irish Volunteers and learned to fire a machine gun behind a monastery cloister. In 1970, after 43 years in the United States, he was one of the founders of the Irish Northern Aid Committee, which says it is a charitable organization for the children of British political prisoners. Both the British and United States Governments have said it is an arms-smuggling organization.
        In 1983, Mr. Flannery was named grand marshal of New York City's St. Patrick's Day Parade. The announcement came just four months after he was acquitted of gun-running charges. His leadership caused Terence Cardinal Cooke to boycott the beginning of the parade and some politicians declined to march, including Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and former Gov. Hugh L. Carey. Others, including Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and Mayor Edward I. Koch, marched.
        Before his death, friends say, he was closely watching the evolving peace process in northern Ireland.  They said he remained firm in his belief in a united Ireland.
        Yesterday, Brooklyn District Attorney Charles J. Hynes issued a statement saying: "Michael Flannery set a new standard for the St. Patrick's Day Parade and its grand marshals. He expanded the annual reaffirmation of our culture to include recognition of continuing discrimination against Catholics in Northeast Ireland."
        Mr. Flannery was born on a farm in North Tipperary in 1902 and joined the Irish Volunteers in 1916, the year of the Irish Rebellion. He saw no fighting, but stayed with the rebels after the revolt. Ultimately, Mr. Enright said, he ended up in prison standing on a bucket in a cell in the Mount Joy jail watching as the rebellion's leaders were executed.
        After two years in prison, he staged a hunger strike in 1923 and was released in 1924. There was no work, particularly for someone so politically active, so he immigrated to New York in 1927. He found a job with Metropolitan Life and married the former Margaret Egan, who died in 1991. The couple had no children.
        Both he and his wife joined many Irish-American groups. His included the Tipperary Men's Association, the Gaelic Athletic Association and Clan Na Gael, which Mr. Enright characterized as an Irish freedom group.
        In 1970, he traveled around the United States, helping set up 62 chapters of the Northern Aid Committee. In 1971, he said, "The more coffins sent back to Britain, the sooner this will be all over," referring to British occupying soldiers.
        In 1982, he was indicted with four others for arms smuggling, but they were acquitted by a jury, some of whose members said they believed defense assertions that the men were acting at the behest of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        The next year, he was named grand marshal of the parade, and publicly said that the event should be considered "pro-I.R.A." Banners along the route said, "We Love You, Michael Flannery."
      