
        William W. Lapsley, a retired major general in the Army Corps of Engineers and former president of the Consolidated Edison Company, died on Thursday at his home in San Antonio. He was 84.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        General Lapsley, a native of Selma, Ala., graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1935. In World War II, he commanded an engineering regiment in the invasions of Sicily, Italy and southern France. During the Korean War he led the Seventh Logistical Command. His medals included the Bronze Star with Oak Leaf Cluster, the Legion of Merit and the Distinguished Service Medal.
        He later commanded the Corps of Engineers in the Pacific Northwest and played a major role in the construction of dams on the Columbia River. In the early 1960's he was a member of a three-man team that negotiated with the Canadian Government over the use of water from that river.
        Another member was Charles F. Luce, the administrator of the Bonneville Power Administration in that region, who soon became chairman and chief executive of Con Edison. General Lapsley retired from the Army in 1967, and Mr. Luce recruited him for Con Edison two years later, making him vice president of corporate services.
        General Lapsley became president of the company in 1973. He retired in 1975, when he reached age 65, but he remained a member of the utility's board until 1982.
        Mr. Luce credited General Lapsley with helping to rebuild the company. "Not only did he direct the modernization of Con Edison's electric system," Mr. Luce said, "he also trained the next generation of men and women who lead Con Edison today."
        General Lapsley's first wife, the former June Louise English, died in 1952. His second wife, the former Vivian Lynn, died in 1987. He is survived by two daughters, Lynn Jordan of Carmel Valley, Calif., and Kim Muir of Eagle Rock, Calif.; three sons, Robert A. Lapsley of Savannah, Ga., Charles R. Lynn of Albuquerque, N.M., and Jon V. Lynn of Stafford, N.Y.; a brother, Rhea Lapsley of Ridgeway, N.J.; six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      