
        Barton A. Cummings, who headed one of the United States' largest agencies, Compton Advertising, before becoming chairman emeritus of Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising Worldwide, died on Sunday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 80.
        The cause was heart and lung disease, said his daughter, Ann Iverson.
        Mr. Cummings, a native of Rockford, Ill., began his career in advertising as a teen-ager, working in his father's agency in Rockford. He graduated from the University of Illinois, where he was an All-America end in 1935, and joined Benton & Bowles in New York as an account executive. During World War II he spent 22 months with the Office of War Information in Washington and two years overseas in the Navy.
        In 1947, he joined Compton Advertising as an account executive. Less than 10 years later, he was chief executive. In 1963 he was elected chairman, and in 1970 he became chairman of the executive committee.
        He helped Compton become an international agency, with offices throughout Europe, South America and the Far East. Compton's bigger clients included Procter & Gamble, United States Steel and the New York Stock Exchange.
        When Compton was bought by Saatchi & Saatchi in 1982, Mr. Cummings was appointed chairman emeritus, a position he held until his death.
        He staunchly defended the advertising industry against Government regulation and in 1973 attacked consumer advocates, saying they were using Government legislation to control the economy and limit free enterprise.
        He was chairman of the American Association of Advertising Agencies in 1969, and later held the top positions in the American Advertising Federation, the National Advertising Review Council, the Advertising Council and, from 1971 to 1977, the Joint Committee for Advertising.
        Mr. Cummings is survived by his wife, Margaret; a son, Peter, of Santa Fe, N.M.; two daughters, Mrs. Iverson, of Houston, and Susan, of New York; a sister, Elizabeth Quattlebaum of Rockford, and one granddaughter.
      