
        Sydney C. Cooper, a former New York City police commander who fought against corruption in the department, died on Sunday at his home in East Norwich, L.I. He was 74.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Phyllis, who added that he had a history of heart problems.
        Chief Cooper spent more than a fourth of his 28-year career tracking down and arresting corrupt police officers. He earned a reputation as one of the city's toughest officers before he retired from the Police Department in 1972. He was among those who aided the Knapp Commission's inquiry into police corruption from 1970 to 1972.
        He was an assistant chief inspector in July 1971, when he became the department's chief of inspectional services and took command of its Internal Affairs Division, the unit charged with combating corruption inside the department. Surge in Complaints
        Chief Cooper held that post until March 1972 during a surge in public complaints about police corruption.
        From 1968 to 1971, he was also involved in anti-corruption efforts as the Police Department's borough commander in the Bronx and then as its chief of personnel.
        Recalling the early 1970's in an interview last month, Judge Whitman Knapp of Federal District Court, the former chairman of the Knapp Commission to Investigate Allegations of Police Corruption in New York City, said he had chosen to deal with the Police Department through Chief Cooper, who he said was "a key player."
        "He assisted me in my investigations" in a variety of ways, Judge Knapp said. "He was very helpful. He had integrity and street wisdom. He took things as they were, didn't try to pretend that they were different, and dealt with them."
        Late in 1972, the commission filed an influential report describing an endemic system of corruption, with thousands of police officers involved in graft.
        After that, as Anthony Bouza, a former police commander in the Bronx, wrote recently, reform of the department was possible, partly "because an angry public, outraged by the disclosures of the Knapp Commission, demanded it."
        Reforms were indeed made. New units and programs were formed to forestall corruption. But critics of the Police Department have contended that the commission's positive impact on corruption has been followed by backsliding within the department.
        Besides aiding the commission, Chief Cooper, as a high police commander, worked against police corruption in ways that ranged from targeting patterns of graft to forming an alliance with an individual honest police officer, Frank Serpico, who was an important informer about graft in the police ranks.
        In a 1971 interview about his internal-affairs command, Chief Cooper said, "We are moving away from the situation where, with a limited number of men, we tried to deal with individual cases, and are beginning to move against patterns of corruption we know exist."
        One of the patterns the chief investigated was free hospitality provided to police officers by midtown Manhattan hotels. He oversaw a high-level department investigation that indicated that almost all the midtown hotels were treating law-enforcement officers to free meals, and even free lodging.
        Chief Cooper's friendship with Patrolman Serpico had a noisy beginning, as the author Peter Maas described in his 1973 book "Serpico." Patrolman Serpico complained to Chief Cooper, "I don't have a friend in the department," and the chief bellowed: "Don't talk to me about friends. I'm supposed to be the bogyman around here. I don't have any friends in the department either, and I'm not looking for any."
        Then, Mr. Maas recounted, the patrolman smiled and said "O.K., chief, I'll be your friend." The 'Turnaround Cop'
        Chief Cooper also used dishonest police officers in fighting corruption. After retiring from the department, he testified before a State Senate committee that a useful technique was to catch a police officer taking a bribe, and then to get him to work for investigators in exchange for immunity from arrest. "I'm very much in favor of using what we call the 'turnaround cop,' " he said.
        In the last months before his retirement, at age 53, Chief Cooper headed a confidential police unit that pursued leads provided by the Knapp Commission. The unit also worked with Federal investigators looking into what a Federal prosecutor, Whitney North Seymour Jr., had called "extensive corruption" of New York police officers and others by narcotics dealers.
        The future chief was born in Brooklyn and grew up there and in Toms River, N.J. He studied two years at New York University, joined the Police Department in 1941 and, except for service in the Army Engineers in World War II, remained with the department until his retirement. He earned a bachelor's degree from City University in 1964 and a law degree from St. John's University in 1968.
        From 1961 to 1968, he served in various positions as an internal affairs or anti-corruption investigator.
        After retiring, he was a senior consultant in criminal justice to the New York City Rand Institute from 1972 to 1974 and school safety director for the city's Board of Education in 1974 and 1975. He later held a number of posts, largely as a consultant or teacher.
        He was a co-author of "Home Security" (Consumer Reports, 1989).
        He was married to Phyllis Schaffer in 1941. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Margaret Cooper of Manhattan.
      