
        David Lowell Ladd, an authority on intellectual property law who was Commissioner of Patents in the Kennedy Administration, died last Wednesday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 68.
        He died of heart ailments, his family said.
        Mr. Ladd signed tens of thousands of patents from April 1961 to September 1963, at a rate of about a thousand a week. He also reorganized the Patent Office and set up a training program for staff examiners.
        When he was sworn in at the age of 35, Mr. Ladd was the second youngest man to hold the job and relatively inexperienced, with only eight years of patent-law practice to his credit.
        His first year as commissioner, was the 125th year of the modern patent system and was highlighted by the issuance of Patent No. 3,000,000. It was granted with much ceremony on a Tuesday at noon, the traditional time for the award of patents, to the General Electric Company. The invention was an automatic scanner used by banks for sorting checks printed in magnetic ink.
        To date, more than five million patents have been issued.
        Mr. Ladd was born in Portsmouth, Ohio, and graduated from the University of Chicago, where he also earned his law degree. He practiced in Chicago before filling the post in Washington.
        As an expert in the laws governing intellectual property, he frequently contributed articles on patents, trademarks and copyrights. He was the co-author of a study in 1962 that led to the creation of the World Intellectual Property Organization, a United Nations agency based in Geneva that safeguards patents and copyrights.
        He returned to the practice of law in 1963 and also taught patent law at Ohio University and the University of Miami. From 1980 to 1985 he was back in Washington as United States Register of Copyrights and Assistant Librarian of Congress for Copyright Services.
        He was then associated with Wiley, Rein & Fielding, a Washington law firm from which he retired in 1987.
        He is survived by his wife, Ann Weaver Ladd, and a sister, Marcella Vetter of Portsmouth.
      