
        Frank Joseph Battisti, the Federal judge who presided over several important cases in Cleveland, including the deportation of John Demjanjuk, died on Wednesday at the Cleveland Clinic. He was 72 and lived in Cleveland.
        The cause was typhus and Rocky Mountain spotted fever, said Faye Kaufman, his secretary at the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio.
        Among the nationally prominent cases before Judge Battisti were that of Mr. Demjanjuk, the automobile worker accused of war crimes in Nazi-occupied Eastern Europe and stripped of his American citizenship, and the 1974 trial of eight members of the Ohio National Guard accused of violating the civil rights of four students shot dead at Kent State University in 1970. He also gained national attention in 1976 for ordering the Cleveland school district to start busing students to achieve racial integration.
        In the 1980's, Judge Battisti was at the center of a power struggle that pitted him against nine colleagues on the 11-member court in Cleveland. The nine had set up a system in which the majority decided court policy in May 1985, but Judge Battisti conceded that he ignored it on the ground that "the chief judge must make the decisions."
        The matter went to a panel of Federal appellate judges, which found in September that he had indeed assumed too much power and ordered him to share it with his peers.
        Judge Battisti was appointed by President John F. Kennedy in 1961 at the age of 38, which made him the youngest Federal judge in the country at the time. He was chief judge in Cleveland from 1969 to 1990 and became a senior judge of the court in April.
        Ms. Kaufman said he stepped down as chief judge because he resented sentencing guidelines set by Congress and argued that judges should have leeway when passing sentence.
        At his death, scores of cases remained on his docket, including a rehearing of the Demjanjuk case ordered by the United States Supreme Court; Mr. Demjanjuk, whose conviction on charges of war crimes was overturned by an Israeli court, is seeking to regain his American citizenship.
        Born in Youngstown, Ohio, Judge Battisti graduated from Ohio University and Harvard University Law School. He was in private practice and taught at Youngstown University Law School in the 1950's and was elected a Common Pleas judge in 1958.
        As chief judge, he was regarded as one of the most powerful men in Cleveland, particularly after 1976 when he ordered the integration of the city's school system. He found the system deliberately segregated and prescribed crosstown busing as the remedy.
        The Kent State case came to an abrupt halt when he dismissed it on the ground that Government prosecutors had failed to prove "beyond a reasonable doubt" that the guardsmen had willfully intended to deprive the students of their rights. The students were slain during a campus demonstration against American military involvement in Indochina.
        Judge Battisti is survived by his wife of 31 years, Gloria Karpinski Battisti; his brother, Leo, of Florida; and his sisters, Lillian and Jeanne Battisti, both of Cleveland.
      