
        Burt Lancaster, the rugged former circus acrobat who achieved Hollywood stardom in 1946 in his first film, "The Killers," and maintained a magnetic screen presence in some 70 movies that spanned 45 years, died on Thursday at his home in Century City, Calif. He was 80.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Susan.
        Mr. Lancaster was an actor who could have settled for comfortable fame in tough-guy action movies, but instead preferred to take risks and accept roles that expanded his range. The risk-taking paid off in 1961 when he won an Academy Award for his performance in the title role in "Elmer Gantry," an adaptation of Sinclair Lewis's novel about a lecherous charlatan.
        Throughout his long career, Mr. Lancaster alternated muscular, athletic roles with more sensitive portrayals. Thus, in 1952, he appeared in the swashbuckling "Crimson Pirate" and also took on the demanding role of Doc Delaney, the middle-aged alcoholic in "Come Back, Little Sheba." In 1957, he played Wyatt Earp in "Gunfight at the O.K. Corral" and a vicious gossip columnist, J. J. Hunsecker, in "Sweet Smell of Success," a role modeled on Walter Winchell.
        And in 1981, Mr. Lancaster could be seen as a comic, broken-down, has-been outlaw in "Cattle Annie and Little Britches" and was also nominated for an Academy Award for his portrayal of an aging small-time criminal in "Atlantic City."
        Mr. Lancaster's many hits included "From Here to Eternity," "Judgment at Nuremberg," "Separate Tables," "The Flame and the Arrow," "Birdman of Alcatraz," "Jim Thorpe: All-American," "The Gypsy Moths," "The Rainmaker" and "The Leopard."
        He was one of the first actors to form his own production company, which turned out many of his own movies as well as "Marty," which won an Oscar as best picture in 1955. That same year, he directed himself in "The Kentuckian," which was unsuccessful, but he won critical praise for his role of the comic suitor of Anna Magnani in Tennessee Williams's "Rose Tattoo."
        Because he insisted on taking chances, on casting himself "against type," as they say in Hollywood, Mr. Lancaster sometimes, he said, "came up with egg, even a whole omelette, on my face."
        "I'll tell you something," he told an interviewer some years ago. "I took a $50,000 salary loss on the picture 'All My Sons,' in which I starred as the idealistic son of a war profiteer, because I believed in it, and I've never been sorry. O.K., it didn't make money; it was too talky, too preachy. But we took a chance, we tried. Why, I'd still be the same punk kid I used to be back in East Harlem during the Depression if I was afraid to take a chance."
        Burton Stephen Lancaster was born in New York on Nov. 2, 1913, the son of a postal worker. He grew up in the neighborhood around 106th Street and Second Avenue, where the family lived in a railroad flat in a building Mr. Lancaster's mother eventually inherited. Although the neighborhood was tough, he said, "in those days gangs didn't go in for killing; just fist and rock fights." He sang in church and acted in plays at the Union Settlement House while attending DeWitt Clinton High School.
        At New York University, which he attended on an athletic scholarship, Mr. Lancaster played on the basketball team and was active in baseball, boxing, track and gymnastics.
        After two years he dropped out and, with Nick Cravat, a boyhood friend, formed the acrobatic team of Lang and Cravat, performing a horizontal-bar act. They earned $3 a week each with a small circus while perfecting their act, then traveled, from 1932 to 1939, with several others, including the Ringling and Barnum troupes.
        In 1935, he married a fellow circus performer, June Ernst. The marriage ended in divorce a year later.
        At one point, Mr. Lancaster said, he gave up acrobatics because he felt he was just being "a dumb actor" who never spoke while performing, which left him feeling unfulfilled. But after a brief stint with a Works Progress Administration theater project, he returned to the circus. In 1939, a finger injury forced him to give up the act, and he worked as a lingerie salesman and floorwalker in a department store and as a firefighter at a meatpacking plant in Chicago. He was drafted in 1942.
        Mr. Lancaster's three years in the Fifth Army's Special Services unit took him to North Africa. In addition, he said, "I had a wonderful time touring Europe as a page-turner for a soldier pianist."
        In Italy, Mr. Lancaster met Norma Anderson, a U.S.O. entertainer who in 1946 became his wife. They had five children before their divorce in 1969.
        In 1945, the future Mrs. Lancaster was working for a New York producer, and Mr. Lancaster, on furlough, went to her office to see her. The muscular 6-foot-4-inch soldier impressed the producer's assistant, who asked Mr. Lancaster to try out for the role of a tough Army sergeant in a play called "A Sound of Hunting."
        He got the role and although the play lasted only five weeks, Mr. Lancaster received seven offers from movie producers. He signed a contract with the producer Hal Wallis, who lent him to another producer, Mark Hellinger, to star in "The Killers," based on a short story by Ernest Hemingway.
        It was the first of many tough guy roles, which included "Brute Force" (1947), in which Mr. Lancaster played a convict, "Criss Cross" (1949), "Ten Tall Men" (1951) and "Vera Cruz" (1954).
        In 1948, Mr. Lancaster started buying out his contract with Mr. Wallis, and with his agent, Harold Hecht, formed his own company, Norma Productions. His first starring role for the company was "Kiss the Blood Off My Hands," a moody melodrama released in 1948. The company's first great financial success was "The Flame and the Arrow," in 1950, in which he used his acrobatic skills to advantage.
        When asked why he risked his neck doing his own dangerous stunts for the movie, Mr. Lancaster replied: "I've got a couple of thousand bucks in this picture. What's a neck?" During a personal-appearance tour promoting the movie, he confounded skeptical reporters who doubted that he did his own stunts by performing them all over again.
        His athletic prowess also gave Mr. Lancaster a chance to play the Sac and Fox Indian whose Olympic achievements won an enduring place in the history of sports, in "Jim Thorpe: All-American" (1951). He used his acrobatic training again in "Trapeze," (1956). When asked how he chose his roles, he replied, "I'll go on making swashbucklers for my own company, but in my outside pictures, I want to do things that will help me as an actor against the time when I have to give up all this jumping around."
        Mr. Lancaster's roles were indeed richly varied. He played the Rev. Anthony Anderson in George Bernard Shaw's "Devil's Disciple," in 1959, and in "Judgment at Nuremberg" (1961) he was a remorse-stricken German accused of war crimes. In 1962, he returned to the role of a convict, but one with a difference, in "Birdman of Alcatraz," based on the life of the convicted murderer who became a famous ornithologist in more than a half-century behind bars.
        Mr. Lancaster also played an Army general plotting the overthrow of the Government in "Seven Days in May" (1964) and a French railroad supervisor in "The Train" in 1965. He was seen as a troubled airport manager in the disaster movie "Airport" in 1970, had the title role in the television movie "Moses" in 1975 and was the dime-novel writer Ned Buntline in "Buffalo Bill and the Indians" in 1976.
        Although Mr. Lancaster underwent an 11-hour operation in 1980 for what was described as "an abdominal problem," he continued to work, and in the spring of 1983 delighted critics with his portrayal of an eccentric oil company millionaire in "Local Hero."
        In 1985, he displayed his flair for comedy in "Tough Guys," starring with Kirk Douglas in a tale of old train robbers trying to adjust to modern life. Three years later, in the sentimental "Rocket Gibraltar," Mr. Lancaster played a dying patriarch. And in 1989, in the sentimental hit "Field of Dreams," he portrayed a small-town doctor named Moonlight Graham.
        A year later, Mr. Lancaster had a stroke that left him partly paralyzed.
        In summarizing Mr. Lancaster's career in 1981, Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times: "There were snickers when Luchino Visconti cast him as the old Sicilian prince in 'The Leopard,' but to this day 'The Leopard' remains one of his most effective portrayals in one of his most ambitious and beautiful films."
        Mr. Canby continued: "Today, in his upper 60's, Mr. Lancaster continues to hedge his bets, playing off one mass-market movie against one 'class' picture. As one looks back over his career now, one can see that something was really happening, that the young circus performer who came to movies comparatively late in life in 'The Killers' was slowly but unmistakably evolving from movie star into a first-rate actor of unexpected qualities."
        In addition to his wife, Susan, whom he married in 1990, Mr. Lancaster is survived by his children, James, William, Susan, Joanna and Sighle, and a stepson, John Scherer, all of Los Angeles.
        Mrs. Lancaster said there would be no funeral service. FROM 'ATLANTIC CITY' TO 'ZULU DAWN' Burt Lancaster began his show-business career as an acrobat, and even in his performances as an actor the physical was seldom far from the surface. These are some of the most memorable of his many films.
        The Killers (1946)  Desert Fury (1947)  Brute Force (1947)  I Walk Alone (1948)  Sorry, Wrong Number (1948)  All My Sons (1948)  Rope of Sand (1949)  The Flame and the Arrow (1950)  Jim Thorpe: All-American (1951)  The Crimson Pirate (1952)  Come Back, Little Sheba (1952)  From Here to Eternity (1953)  The Rose Tattoo (1955)  Trapeze (1956)  The Rainmaker (1956)  Gunfight at the O.K. Corral (1957)  Sweet Smell of Success (1957)  Separate Tables (1958)  Run Silent, Run Deep (1958)  Elmer Gantry (1960)  The Young Savages (1961)  Judgment at Nuremburg (1961)  Birdman of Alcatraz (1962)  The Leopard (1963)  Seven Days in May (1964)  The Train (1965)  The Professionals (1966)  The Swimmer (1968)  Airport (1970)  1900 (1976)  Zulu Dawn(1979)  Atlantic City (1981)  Cattle Annie and Little Britches (1981)  Local Hero (1983)  Field of Dreams (1989)
      