
        Ron Gene Wikberg, who became an award-winning journalist while serving a life term for murder, died on Sunday at his home in Rohrersville, Md. He was 51.
        The cause was cancer, said Dave Isay, a friend in New York City.
        Mr. Wikberg was convicted in 1969 in the killing of a grocery clerk in a holdup. He served 23 years in the Louisiana State Penitentiary in Angola, trained there as a paralegal and was released two years ago after undoing his life term through a legal loophole that he had found.
        In 1971 he began to write for The Angolite, a prison magazine. He became a staff writer in 1987 and associate editor the next year. With the encouragement of a progressive administration, he and the chief editor, Wilbert Rideau, turned The Angolite into a muckraking journal.
        Mr. Rideau, who remains in prison on a life term for murder, and Mr. Wikberg became journalists behind bars. They worked on exposes of homosexual rape in prison, reports on aging and long-forgotten inmates serving life terms and general prison conditions. They and the bimonthly journal won many awards for reporting, editing and publishing. One article, "The Sexual Jungle," received a George Polk Award in 1980, and The Angolite was nominated for many National Magazine Awards.
        The two men also wrote "Life Sentences: Rage and Survival Behind Bars" (Times Books/Random House, 1992), a collection of detached, but necessarily painful, essays and reporting. In The New York Times Book Review, Russell Banks wrote, " 'Life Sentences' should be required reading for all 50 United States governors and Presidential and Vice-Presidential candidates."
        Mr. Wikberg was also a co-author of "The Wall Is Strong" (1989), a criminal-justice text for colleges.
        Mr. Wikberg was born in Chicago.
        Survivors include his wife, Kay, whom he married after being paroled; his father, Raymond, of Colorado City, Colo.; a sister, Dinah Adams of Australia, and five brothers, Michael, of Allentown, Pa.; Richard, of Chicago; Clifford and Jay, both of Colorado City, and Gregory, of Colorado Springs.
      