
        Alfred A. Giardino, a former president of the New York City Board of Education and chairman of the city's Board of Higher Education, died on Sunday while attending his 60th class reunion at Brooklyn College. He was 81 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said his wife, Lucienne.
        Mr. Giardino, a lawyer who specialized in employment and labor law as a partner in the Manhattan firm of Lambos & Giardino, once described himself as "a home-grown product of the school system" and said his career in public education represented an effort to repay the city.
        Mr. Giardino, who held faculty positions at Brooklyn College, Columbia and Cornell universities and the New York University School of Law, was appointed to the Board of Education by Mayor Robert F. Wagner in 1964 to fill an unexpired seven-year term and was elected its president in 1967.
        In his unsalaried position, Mr. Giardino led a citywide effort to improve instruction in the early grades, sought to improve the internal operations of the school system, fought proposed cuts in school construction and operating budgets, and played a major role in modernizing the board's personnel procedures. In 1968, he decided not to seek reappointment because he opposed plans to decentralize administration of the schools.
        From 1974 to 1976, as an appointee of Mayor Abraham D. Beame, Mr. Giardino was the chairman of the Board of Higher Education. But he resigned in opposition to the plans of Gov. Hugh L. Carey to impose tuition for the City University.
        He said his conscience would not allow him to "be the instrument" for imposing the charges and "thereby deprive others of a low-cost college education, which the city gave me years ago and which I have sought to repay."
        Among the other posts he held were executive secretary of the New York State Labor Relations Board and chairman of the Committee on Statewide Library Development.
        As a lawyer, he represented the New York Shipping Association and served in 1968 as chief negotiator in bargaining between the shipping industry and the International Longshoremen's Association.
        Mr. Giardino, who was born in Brooklyn, graduated from Brooklyn College in 1934. He received a law degree from Columbia Law School in 1937.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Giardino is survived by two daughters, Carol and Diane, of Manhattan, and a sister, Jeanne, of Brooklyn.
      