
        Dr. Warren Glenford Kinzey, a City College anthropologist who was a specialist in the evolution of early hominids and New World monkeys, died on Saturday at his home in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 58.
        The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Lou Gehrig's disease, his family said.
        Dr. Kinzey was former head of the anthropology department at the City University of New York and taught at City College, the City University of New York Medical School and the CUNY Graduate Center. He recently finished work on "New World Primates: Ecology, Evolution and Behavior." The textbook, which he edited and to which he contributed a major section, is to be published next year by Aldine de Gruyter.
        Dr. Kinzey's research and field studies in the forests of Latin America focused on "the relationship between diet and distinctive tooth-wear patterns," said Dr. Carol Laderman, the chairwoman of the department of anthropology at CUNY. This, she said, "had important consequences for the study of the diets of early hominids, which are most often represented by their fossilized teeth."
        Another longtime colleague, Dr. Alfred L. Rosenberger of the Smithsonian Institution's National Zoological Park, said Dr. Kinzey became "one of anthropology's first career primatologists" in the mid-1960's and early 1970's, seeking to interpret hominid evolution. For this Dr. Kinzey found the New World monkeys a "rich source of anthropological information," he added.
        Last February, Dr. Kinzey was honored at the Smithsonian in a symposium, "Neotropical Primates: Setting the Future Research Agenda, Essays in Honor of Warren G. Kinzey."
        He was the author of more than 100 articles, received research grants from the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation, among others, and led five trips of Earthwatch volunteers into the Peruvian Amazon region.
        Dr. Kinzey was born in Orange, N.J. He received his B.A. and M.A. degrees in anthropology from the University of Minnesota and his Ph.D. in anatomy at the University of California at Berkeley. Before joining the CUNY faculty in 1970, he taught anthropology, zoology and anatomy at the University of California at Davis.
        Dr. Kinzey is survived by his wife of 11 years, Julianne Kelly; three daughters, Claudia Moanna of Nevada City, Calif., Andrea Kinzey-Wheeler of Nederland, Col., and Monica Hanna of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a stepson, John Kelly of Berkeley; a sister, Margaret Ruona of Minneapolis, and six grandchildren. An earlier marriage to Trilby Taylor Kinzey of Demarest, N.J., ended in divorce.
      