
        Ray L. Birdwhistell, an anthropologist and expert on how people communicate with body motions, died on Wednesday at his home in Brigantine, N.J. He was 76.
        The cause was liver cancer, said his wife, Anne.
        Professor Birdwhistell retired in 1988 from the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, where he joined the faculty in 1969. From 1942 until 1969 he taught and did research at the Universities of Toronto and Louisville, the State University of New York at Buffalo and Temple University.
        He did his best-known research in the field of nonverbal communication, or body language. He was an expert in kinesics, the part of nonverbal communication that deals with postures of the body and movements of various parts of the body that play a role in communicating, particularly while people are speaking.
        Anthropologists put forward the idea in the 1940's that body motions constituted a code that could be cracked. But sustained, systematic research into kinesics really began with the publication of Professor Birdwhistell's book "Introduction to Kinesics" in 1952.
        A former colleague, Norman A. McQuown, a retired professor of anthropology and linguistics at the University of Chicago, said yesterday, "He worked out a system of transcription for all of this body movement, and then he trained people in using that system," which consisted of symbols and abbreviations of words.
        Professor Birdwhistell was also adept at demonstrating communication through body motions. He could show how to communicate emphasis "with the raising of an eyebrow or the flip of a finger or the tap of a toe," Professor McQuown said.
        In an interview in 1970, Professor Birdwhistell contended: "There are no universal gestures. As far as we know, there is no single facial expression, stance or body position which conveys the same meaning in all societies." He conceded that all humans smile, but he argued that the meaning of a smile is not the same throughout the world. He also said that different cultures gave a different significance to the smile.
        To analyze body motions, Professor Birdwhistell and other researchers used slow-motion movie footage showing people talking. They studied the people's faces, their gestures and other nonverbal communication while talking.
        Professor McQuown said Professor Birdwhistell continued to do research and analysis in kinesics for five decades. Among the chief insights that Professor Birdwhistell and other researchers gained, Professor McQuown said, was that when people communicate, "no aspect of communication may be assumed to be a priori more important than any other. A stress on a word can equally well be communicated by movement in some other part of the body."
        Professor Birdwhistell's many writings included the book "Kinesics and Context: Essays on Body Motion Communication" (University of Pennsylvania, 1970). He was also involved in the making of numerous films.
        Professor Birdwhistell was born in Cincinnati and received a bachelor's degree in 1940 from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, a master's degree in 1941 from Ohio State University and a doctorate in 1951 from the University of Chicago.
        In addition to his wife, the former Anne Davison, he is survived by two daughters, Jill Pierce of Ridgewood, N.J., and Nan Birdwhistell of Woodbridge, Conn.; a brother, Ralph K., of Pensacola, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      