
        Irving Goodman, a former president of Viking Penguin and former head of the trade-books division of Holt, Rinehart & Winston, died on Monday at New York University Medical Center. He was 68 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Roslyn.
        At the time of his death, he was a consultant to White Heat, a company that designs and packages three-dimensional, or "pop-up," books.
        Mr. Goodman was a vice president of Holt, Rinehart & Winston from 1974 to 1978 while he ran its trade books department, which published books by, among others, the cartoonists Garry Trudeau ("Doonesbury") and Charles Schulz ("Peanuts").
        From 1978 to 1983 he was president of Viking Penguin, the American hard-cover and paperback subsidiary of the Penguin Group, the London-based book-publishing concern.
        In those years, Viking Penguin was a midsized publishing house publishing 100 hardcover books a year. One of its two divisions published hardcover books under the Viking Press imprint, including works by authors like Stephen King, Frederick Forsyth, D. M. Thomas and Nadine Gordimer.
        The other division published paperback books, under the Penguin imprint, including James Joyce, D. H. Lawrence, Rebecca West, Graham Greene, John Steinbeck and other authors. First to Offer a Policy
        In 1982, under Mr. Goodman's leadership, the Viking division won praise from many authors when it became the first major book publisher to provide its authors with an insurance policy under which they got limited protection against legal expenses. He resigned as president in 1983.
        Earlier in his career, Mr. Goodman was the publisher of Saturday Review Press from 1970 to 1974, and editorial director of the Literary Guild book club from 1961 to 1970.
        He was born and reared in Brooklyn and became an Army staff sergeant during World War II. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree at the University of Denver in 1949.
        From 1950 to 1959, he was managing editor of Sport magazine, and from 1959 to 1961, he was a senior editor of The Saturday Evening Post.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three sons, Peter of Los Angeles, Paul of Manhattan and Kenneth of Pound Ridge, N.Y.; four granddaughters; a brother, Martin of West Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Sondra Maslin of Roslyn, L.I.
        A memorial service is to be held at 10 A.M. Thursday at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street, in Manhattan.
      