
        Gen. Yang Dezhi, a Chinese military leader for more than half a century and a former Army Chief of Staff who opposed the Tiananmen Square crackdown, died on Tuesday, the official New China News Agency reported yesterday. He was 83. The cause of death was not given.
        Mr. Yang's career in warfare stretched from the creation of the Communist Army in 1927 to China's invasion of Vietnam in 1979. He made his name as a daring military leader during the fabled Long March and was a top commander of Chinese forces during the Korean War.
        He also proved skilled in politics, avoiding repeated purges, making a successful transition from the reign of Mao Zedong to that of Deng Xiaoping without losing favor, and eventually rising to the Politburo.
        In 1927, when Mao launched the uprising in Hunan that marked the founding of the Red Army, Mr. Yang, 17 at the time, joined the Communists. In 1934 and 1935 he commanded a vanguard unit in the Long March, the Red Army's 6,000-mile retreat before the advancing Nationalist forces.
        His established his reputation in May 1935, when the Red Army was threatened with being pinned down by the Nationalists alongside the Dadu River in Sichuan Province. Mr. Yang's unit surprised the Nationalist forces on one bank of the river, seizing the only ferry, then crossed and defeated the Nationalists on the other side, clearing the way for the Red Army's escape.
        Mr. Yang moved steadily up the military and political ladders, becoming a member of the Community Party Central Committee in 1969.
        In 1979, Mr. Yang was deputy commander of Chinese forces in their brief incursion into Vietnam, and the failures of that venture did not appear to hurt his fortunes. The next year, he was named Chief of Staff of the Army, a post he held for seven years. He sat on the Politburo from 1982 to 1987.
        As Chief of Staff, Mr. Yang oversaw deep cuts in the size of the military, over the objections of hard-liners, many of them holdovers from the Mao era.
        In May of 1989, two weeks before the army crushed demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, Mr. Yang was one of seven retired military leaders to sign a letter warning Prime Minister Li Peng against a crackdown and saying that the military should not enter the city.
      