
        Melvin A. Eggers, the chancellor of Syracuse University from 1971 to 1991, died yesterday at his home in DeWitt, a suburb of Syracuse. He was 78.
        He had a long illness, said John Harvith, a spokesman for the university.
        Dr. Eggers, who retired in August 1991, was the ninth chancellor at Syracuse, and also held the title of President. He was succeeded as chancellor by Kenneth A. Shaw, who said yesterday, "He has left this institution with a legacy for excellence."
        And Donna E. Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, said "As one of my teachers and later as a colleague, Melvin Eggers set a standard for excellence that has helped me both as a professional and as a person."
        Dr. Eggers is widely seen as having strengthened Syracuse academically. In the 1980's, while the university upgraded many of its academic programs, its enrollment flourished, 10 new buildings were opened, and its basketball and football teams became national powerhouses.
        New construction in Dr. Eggers's era included the Carrier Dome, a 50,000-seat indoor sports complex that was built with the state's help.
        But as time passed, the university suffered as the number of high school graduates declined and college costs rose steadily. The school also faced growing competition from the State University of New York.
        By October 1991, Syracuse had lost about 1,700 undergraduates in two years. That loss was the primary cause of a $9.5 million budget deficit for the fiscal years 1990 through 1992. By October 1991, undergraduate enrollment was about 11,500 students.
        At the time, Thonmas F. Cummings Jr., vice president for enrollment management and continuing education at Syracuse, said enrollments at Syracuse and at many other private colleges and universities where tuition had rapidly increased were being hurt by a recession-induced pinch on family incomes as well as stiffer competition among educational institutions for the fewer students then available.
        Dr. Eggers was born in Fort Wayne, Ind., and earned bachelor's and master's degrees in econmics from Indiana University in 1940 and 1941, respectively. He received a Ph.D. in economics from Yale in 1950.
        During the academic career that then unfolded, he co-wrote several books and articles on economics. He joined the Syracuse faculty in 1950 as an assistant professor of economics and rose to be chairman of the economics department before being appointed provost and vice chancellor for academic affairs.
        Dr. Eggers is survived by his wife, the former Mildred Chenoweth, a brother, Oscar, of Prairie Village, Kan.; a daughter, Nancy Beilstein of Tustin, Calif; two sons, William of Pittsford, N.Y., and Richard of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      