
        Julian Symons, a prolific and urbane writer known for his finely fashioned crime novels, died on Saturday at his home in Kent. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his publisher, Macmillan.
        Mr. Symons (pronounced SIMM-ons), who wrote more than 30 books in a career that spanned more than half a century, kept up a grueling pace of lecturing and writing book reviews and essays as well as fiction until very recently. He continued to publish crime novels at the rate of about one a year, and his last, "Playing Happy Families," was published by Macmillan earlier this year.
        Julian Gustave Symons was born in London in 1912 to a family of Russian-born Jewish immigrants. He suffered from such a severe stammer that he was sent to a school for backward children. He left it at the age of 14 to work as a typist and clerk in an engineering firm, but continued his education on his own, reading and writing copiously under the strong influence of his older brother, the author A. J. A. Symons, about whom he later wrote a biography.
        In his 20's, Julian Symons declared himself a Trotskyite, and at the age of 24, he started a literary magazine called Twentieth Century Verse, which survived an inauspicious beginning in which only nine people subscribed. His first novel, "The Immaterial Murder Case," was bought for $:200 in 1945 when his wife, Kathleen, found the half-forgotten manuscript in a drawer and sent it to a publisher.
        Though Mr. Symons later dismissed the book as "slapdash," his literary career was off and running. He produced poetry, essays, biographies of such figures as Edgar Allan Poe and Thomas Carlyle, and scholarly works. His history of literary modernism, "Makers of the New: The Revolution in Literature, 1912-1939," was published in 1967.
        But he was best known for his steady stream of rather unconventional crime fiction. He said once that what interested him was the "violence behind respectable faces, the civil servant planning how to kill Jews most efficiently, the judge speaking with passion about the need for capital punishment, the quiet obedient boy who kills for fun." He surveyed the genre in "Bloody Murder," a history of the crime novel, published in 1972.
        Mr. Symons taught at Amherst College in Massachusetts in the 1970's and served as chairman of the Crime Writers' Association and as president of the Detection Club. Although his books tended not to reach the best-seller lists, probably because he never created a durable detective hero a la Hercule Poirot or Adam Dalgliesh, Mr. Symons established a passionate following and over the years received many awards in Britain and the United States. In 1990, he was awarded the Cartier Diamond Dagger Award for lifetime achievement in the field of crime fiction.
        He is survived by his wife of 54 years and a son, Mark.
      