
        Erick Hawkins, a major figure in American modern dance who offered a radical new definition of the art form, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said David Guion, the executive director of the Erick Hawkins Dance Company.
        The pioneering choreographer, whose dance metaphors since the 1940's were frequently compared to haiku poetry, had received the National Medal of Arts from President Clinton at the White House on Oct. 14.
        Mr. Hawkins communicated his vision of modern dance through a flowing idiom and harmonious works that celebrated the human body and nature rather than the tensions of contemporary life. His credo was "Tight muscles don't feel." Until a decade ago, Mr. Hawkins's own dancing exemplified his ideal. Physically fit, striking in his craggy features and often bare-legged like his dancers, Mr. Hawkins soared with seemingly no effort into the melting leaps that were his trademark.
        Firm in his belief that dancers courted injury through what he perceived as the artificiality of ballet technique and the percussiveness of earlier modern dance idioms, Mr. Hawkins arrived at a system of "self-sensing" in training dancers. A dance vocabulary that hoped to avoid violating the body was, in his view, also linked to values that did not violate the spirit.
        Typical Hawkins dances, including "Plains Daybreak," generally considered a masterpiece in its view of the creation of the world (it evoked an American Indian ceremony), were free of negative expression. A student of Zen, Mr. Hawkins declared that an artist should be a priest who brings the audience to enlightenment.
        The distinctive vocabulary he evolved was not based on a codified or specific dance technique. Instead, he developed what he called a "generic theory of dancing" that avoided unnecessary effort. Mr. Hawkins and his dancers became celebrated, in fact, for their exceptional flow, serenity and sharply articulated changes in dynamics.
        In addition to "Plains Daybreak," Mr. Hawkins's most acclaimed works included "Eight Clear Places," "Black Lake," "Lords of Persia," "Cantilever Two," "Geography of Noon" and "New Moon." Much of his repertory had highly original and vibrant scores by his wife, Lucia Dlugoszewski, the contemporary composer who collaborated with him since 1952.
        Among other composers who wrote music for Mr. Hawkins were Virgil Thomson, Alan Hovhaness. Wallingford Riegger, Ross Lee Finney, Dorrance Stalvey, Lou Harrison, Michio Mamiya and Ge Gan-Ru. Mr. Hawkins, insisting that taped music was dead and that it robbed audiences and dancers of an immediate experience, insisted on always performing to live music. Dance was a collaboration, in his view, and he commissioned sets from painters and sculptors as diverse as Helen Frankenthaler, Isamu Noguchi and Stanley Boxer, and his two associates, Ralph Dorazio and Ralph Lee.
        Many of Mr. Hawkins's dances had a sensibility derived from Asian theater or American Indian rituals. But he also drew from Greek myth or American folklore and created many plotless works.
        Mr. Hawkins decided to become a dancer after seeing a concert by Harald Kreutzberg and Yvonne Georgi, two leading German modern dancers. He attended their performance in New York City during a Christmas break while studying at Harvard College in the 1920's. "When I walked out at the intermission," he recalled in 1979, "it was the first time in my life that I knew what I wanted to do."
        Erick Hawkins, whose full name was Frederick Hawkins, was born in Trinidad, Colo., on April 23, 1909. Trinidad, he was fond of saying, was a significant meeting point of the cultures of the Plains Indians and Pueblo Indians of the Southwest. Mr. Hawkins's choreography often referred to Indian rituals and ceremonies.
        Mr. Hawkins's father was an inventor whose products included a crude-oil engine for public water irrigation. Financial reverses caused the family, which included three daughters, to live briefly in Pomona, Calif. When Mr. Hawkins was 10, the family moved to Kansas City, Mo. The elder Hawkins took his son to vaudeville shows, but the boy also went off by himself with his mother's grocery money to piano concerts by Rachmaninoff and Paderewski.
        The bygone innocence of Midwestern life occasionally inspired Mr. Hawkins's choreography. His parents' courtship in Brookfield, Mo., at the turn of the century was celebrated in "Hurrah!," which he choreographed in 1975 to Thomson's Second Symphony. Like Mr. Hawkins, the composer was both a Harvard graduate and from Missouri. "Hurrah!" evoked the spirit of a small-town fairground on the Fourth of July.
        After doing exceptionally well in Kansas City's public schools, Mr. Hawkins received a local Harvard Club scholarship in 1926. At Harvard, he majored in Greek civilization. When Chanler Post, one of his professors, criticized the builders of American universities for borrowing architectural styles from Europe and the past, Mr. Hawkins found a concept that he applied later to his cardinal belief that American dance should come out of the American experience.
        After graduating from Harvard in 1930, Mr. Hawkins studied in Salzburg, Austria, for two months with Kreutzberg, the dancer who had initially inspired him. He moved to New York in 1934 and studied ballet at the School of American Ballet, founded that year by George Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein with Edward M. M. Warburg and Vladimir Dimitriew.
        He danced from 1935 to 1937 in the American Ballet, the first Balanchine-Kirstein company and a precursor of the New York City Ballet. After the collapse of the American Ballet, Mr. Kirstein started another troupe, Ballet Caravan, which emphasized American themes. It was for that company that Mr. Hawkins choreographed his first ballet in 1937: "Show Piece" was performed to a commissioned score by Robert McBride.
        The Bennington School of the Dance at Bennington College in Vermont had provided a residency for Ballet Caravan, beginning in 1936. It was at that famous summer school and modern-dance center that Mr. Hawkins met Martha Graham. He remained with Ballet Caravan until 1938 when Graham invited him to appear as a guest in her major production, "American Document."
        Mr. Hawkins became the Graham company's first male dancer, joining officially in 1939. The personal relationship that he and Graham developed at the time was well known in the dance world although they were married only in 1948.
        The marriage eventually succumbed to the strains of competing artistic egos. The couple divorced in 1954 after Mr. Hawkins left the Graham company in 1951 to work independently. The style of choreography that he had begun developing while still dancing leading roles in Graham's works would soon evolve into something radically different, far removed from Graham's percussive idiom and psychological themes. In 1957, Nr, Hawkins formed a full-fledged troupe, the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, an outgrowth of a group with which he had worked since 1951.
        Although virtually all modern-dance choreographers, with a few exceptions, were overshadowed by Graham's reputation in the 1940's, Mr. Hawkins played a significant role within the Graham company and school. He obtained musical commissions, most notably from the Library of Congress, for Aaron Copland's Pulitzer Prize-winning score for the 1944 Graham classic "Appalachian Spring."
        He shared Graham's interest in Greek mythology and Asian culture, and he created leading roles in Graham works, from the husbandman in "Appalachian Spring" to Oedipus in "Night Journey" in 1947. That year, Mr. Hawkins choreographed a work that was presented on a Graham company program. "John Brown," inspired by the life of the American abolitionist, integrated spoken poetry and dance. Although superficially resembling some other Americana pieces of the 1940's, the form of this early Hawkins work already pointed to the choreography that he would show in the future. Because of its spareness and distilled nature, "John Brown" was described as "an American Noh play" by the critic Robert Sabin.
        Mr. Hawkins, in fact, became immersed in the study of Zen, one of the influences that changed his choreography. He rejected both the ballet tradition, in which he was initially trained, and Graham's belief that movement expresses inner emotion. In his seminal 1957 duet, "Here and Now With Watchers," Mr. Hawkins sought, in his words, "just the pure poetry of movement."
        But this kind of 75-minute plotless work was not abstract, the choreographer said. Instead it embodied what he called "suchness," a Buddhist term connoting the spirit and essence of something concrete. Mr. Hawkins extended such ideas to his props and costumes. He wanted the cardboard train of his Japanese-style costume in his 1975 work "Death is the Hunter," a highly ceremonial allegory about death, to be appreciated for its own sake. In the same way, he said the inside of the masks worn by the dancers in "Black Lake," which presented a metaphorical image of the night sky, should be "as beautiful as the side seen by the audience."
        Among his other pieces were "Stephen Acrobat," "Opening of the (eye)," "Early Floating," "To Everybody Out There," "Naked Leopard," "Angels of the Inmost Heavern," "Of Love," "Greek Dreams With Flute," "Parson Weems and the Cherry Tree" and "Summer Clouds People."
        He is survived by his wife and by a sister, Murial Wright Davis of Anaheim, Calif.
      