
        R. Brinkley Smithers, a recovered alcoholic who marshaled his personal and family fortune into the nation's largest foundation in support of alcoholism research and treatment, died yesterday at North Shore Community Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 86 and lived in Mill Neck, L.I.
        His family said he had a brief illness.
        Mr. Smithers, the son of Christopher D. Smithers, a wealthy investment banker, used part of his inheritance to create the Christopher D. Smithers Foundation shortly after his father's death in 1952. In the following four decades, the foundation contributed $13.5 million, and Mr. Smithers himself donated an additional $27.9 million, to programs to fight alcoholism.
        Among his friends and family members, Mr. Smithers made no secret that his interest in alcoholism treatment was inspired in part by his own experience as an alcoholic. He often recalled that he had taken his last drink on Feb. 6, 1953, less than a year after his father's death.
        Adele C. Smithers, his wife, said yesterday that Mr. Smithers "felt most strongly that people don't know the power of the drug alcohol, and he wanted it to be accepted as a treatable disease." Established Smithers Center
        Among the largest recipients were Rutgers University and Cornell University, which used a donation of $6.7 million from Mr. Smithers in 1986 to create the R. Brinkley Smithers Institute for Alcoholism Prevention and Workplace Problems, and Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan, which used Mr. Smithers's 1971 gift of $10 million to establish the Smithers Alcoholism Treatment and Training Center.
        Mr. Smithers was born in Locust Valley, L.I., and graduated from Johns Hopkins University in 1931. He worked as an investment banker and a marketing executive for the International Business Machines Corporation and served for eight years as an Army officer before creating the foundation in 1952. He devoted the rest of his life to the affairs of the foundation.
        His first wife, Gertrude F. Smithers, died in 1983.
        He is survived by his wife, Adele, of Mill Neck; two sons, Christopher B. Smithers of Mill Neck and Francis Smithers of Vero Beach, Fla., and a daughter, Marian Moore of Manhattan.
      