
        Dr. Robert M. Cohart, Winslow professor emeritus of public health at Yale University, died on Nov. 18. He was 84 and a resident of New Haven.
        The cause was complications of heart disease and pneumonia, his family said.
        Born in New York City, Dr. Cohart graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Columbia College in 1928. He then studied philosophy in Germany and later received his M.D. from the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia in 1933.
        He practiced medicine in New York City for seven years, also working part time as a public-health physician for the city's Health Department. In World War II, he served with the preventive medicine branch of the United States Army.
        He received a master's degree at the Columbia School of Public Health and was appointed an associate professor of public health at Yale School of Medicine in 1948. He took a leave of absence in the mid-1950's to serve as Deputy Commissioner of Health in New York City, became a full professor at Yale in 1956 and was named Winslow professor of public health in 1960. He reached emeritus status in 1978.
        Dr. Cohart was an early investigator into the role that social factors play in chronic illness. He studied those factors in relation to various cancers and did intensive research on the backgrounds and job requirements of public-health workers. His expertise in public health made him a frequent consultant to Federal, state and private health agencies, including the United States Public Health Service and the American Heart Association.
        Dr. Cohart is survived by his wife of 61 years, Dr. Mary Schleifer Cohart; a son, Paul, of Beverly Hills, Calif.; a daughter, Diana Reisen of Newton, Mass.; a brother, Henry, of Roslyn Heights, L.I., and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 26, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about the Winslow Professor Emeritus of Public Health at Yale University misstated his given name. He is Dr. Edward M. Cohart, not Robert.
      