
        Michael Somes, the first male star to be trained by the Royal Ballet and Margot Fonteyn's longtime partner, died on Nov. 18 in London. He was 77.
        The cause was a brain tumor, according to The Guardian.
        Mr. Somes was often called the conscience of the Royal Ballet because of his familiarity with the company's development since the 1930's and his high standards in teaching and staging the troupe's signature works both in London and abroad.
        As a performer, Mr. Somes made his own reputation as a danseur noble who excelled in the 19th-century classics and in Frederick Ashton's ballets. But after he succeeded Robert Helpmann as Fonteyn's regular partner in 1950, American audiences, like those elsewhere, identified him largely with one of classical ballet's most notable partnerships.
        His achievement in this regard was summed up in 1957 by John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, who noted the dancer's deliberate "self-effacement" with the English ballerina but added: "How large he looms as an artist in his own right. Visually handsome and noble in carriage and deportment, he infuses the succession of basically wooden princes with humanity and innate gallantry."
        Mr. Somes was born in Horsely, England, on Sept. 28, 1917, and received the first scholarship for boys at the school of the Vic-Wells Ballet in 1934. The company was renamed Sadler's Wells Ballet, and in 1956, the Royal Ballet.
        After joining the corps, Mr. Somes became known as an Ashton dancer and the great English choreographer eventually created some 30 roles for him in ballets as diverse as "Symphonic Variations," "Dante Sonata," "Cinderella," "Tiresias," "Daphnis and Chloe" and "Ondine." Mr. Somes served as an assistant director when Ashton was director of the Royal Ballet from 1963 to 1970, and he helped supervise productions of Ashton works for the Joffrey Ballet in the 1970's.
        After retiring from classical roles in 1961, Mr. Somes continued to appear in character parts and left the Royal Ballet organization in 1984.
        He is survived by his wife, Wendy Ellis.
      