
        Dr. Reiner G. Stoll, a retired business executive, scientist and inventor, died on Thursday while vacationing in La Jolla, Calif. He was 80 and lived in Sherman, Conn.
        The cause was a heart condition, his family said.
        Dr. Stoll retired in 1979 as the chief scientific officer of the Celanese Corporation, now Hoechst Celanese, of Somerville, N.J., a subsidiary of Hoechst A. G., the German pharmaceutical maker. At the time, he supervised the research and development activities of Celanese.
        He joined the company in 1951 to head its textile research section in Summit, N.J., and led the team that developed Arnel, a wrinkle-resistant fabric. He also invented a machine for the company laboratories to use in wrinkle-testing fabrics for dresses, suits and draperies. In 1964 he was named vice president in charge of fibers operations in New York. Educated in Germany
        He was the holder of a number of patents and was known for integrating scientific research and product development. "We can no longer afford to plan and manage in a random manner," he told an interviewer in 1978. "It has to be very closely tied to strategic business planning."
        Dr. Stoll was elected in 1974 to the board of the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation of New York, which supports research and teaching in chemistry. At his death he remained active in its work.
        He was born and educated in Germany and received a degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Stuttgart in 1936. He came to the United States in 1946 along with other German scientists brought to the country after World War II.
        He was a past chairman of the board of trustees of the Textile Research Institute.
        Dr. Stoll's first wife, Christa, died in 1978.
        In 1985, he married Helen Stockli, who survives, as do two sons, Hans R., of Nashville and Michael, of Chester, N.J.; a daughter, Dagmar Murphy of Oakland, N.J.; two sisters and a brother in the Stuttgart area, and seven grandchildren.
      