
        Milton J. Shapp, former Governor of Pennsylvania and a Philadelphia industrialist who was the first Jew to mount a campaign for the Presidential nomination of a major party, died on Thursday at Lankenau Hospital in Wynnewood, a suburb of Philadelphia. He was 82.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, family friends said.
        Mr. Shapp, a Democrat, served as Governor from 1971 to 1979 and instituted a state income tax and lottery. He ran unsuccessfully for the Democratic nomination for President in 1976.
        Before he became Governor, Mr. Shapp worked on John F. Kennedy's Presidential campaign and is credited with promoting the idea that eventually led to the creation of the Peace Corps.
        Fresh out of the Army Signal Corps after World War II, during which he was a captain and served in North Africa, Italy and Austria, Mr. Shapp, an electrical engineer, founded the Jerrold Electronics Corporation in 1948. The company went public in 1956 and did $25 million annually in business. A decade later, when Mr. Shapp sold his interests, the corporation's business was up to $50 million a year.
        Born in Cleveland, Milton Jerrold Shapp attended the Cleveland public schools and earned a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Case Institute of Technology (now Case Western Reserve University) in 1933.
        He entered public life in 1960, when he became an early supporter of Mr. Kennedy. In the 1960 election, he served as chairman of the Business and Professional Committee for John Kennedy in the Mid-Atlantic States. During that campaign, Mr. Shapp suggested to Mr. Kennedy the idea of forming a Peace Corps. In a speech at Penn State University on March 9, 1961, titled "Peace and the Peace Corps," Mr. Shapp outlined for the first time the basic policies that were to serve as a guide for the operation of that organization.
        He returned briefly to business in mid-1963, but plunged very quickly again into politics. He made an unsuccessful bid for the Senate in 1964. After that effort failed, he worked in the campaign of Lyndon B. Johnson and organized businessmen in the East for him as he had done for President Kennedy.
        In his two terms as Governor, Mr. Shapp won national attention for his consumer-advocate policies and his innovative programs for elderly and handicapped people. He was largely credited with bringing Pennsylvania back from the brink of deficit.
        Mr. Shapp also instituted full financial disclosure for top officials, the most comprehensive of the so-called Sunshine Laws for open government in the nation and a strict code of ethics for all state employees. A violinist, Mr. Shapp made his concert debut as a soloist with the Erie Philharmonic in 1978.
        In an interview during his Presidential bid in 1976, he was asked why he was running.
        "I compare myself to the people who were talking about becoming candidates," he answered. "In knowledge of the economy, in ability to develop programs and get them implemented, and I couldn't see anybody comparable. I saw the caliber of these people and I said, 'What the hell.' "
        But he withdrew in March of that year after having picked up only one delegate. He blamed a late start and "putrid" news coverage for his poor showing in a crowded field of Presidential aspirants.
        In a 1981 letter to The New York Times, Mr. Shapp sharply criticized President Ronald Reagan's sale of Awacs electronic-warfare planes to Saudi Arabia.
        "It would be far more beneficial to America's future economy and to its security if the President would implement a major civilian Awacs program by beginning a war against city slums in our nation," he wrote. "Unless we soon start to cope realistically with our major internal problems, no amount of sophisticated weapons in our possession or in the hands of so-called allies will be able to stave off internal disruption."
        Mr. Shapp battled Alzheimer's for several years, said Richard Gross, a family friend.
        He is survived by his wife, Muriel; two daughters, Dolores Graham and Joanne Shapp; a son, Richard, and three grandchildren.
      