
        Dr. Willem Jacob Luyten, an astronomer whose work expanded the understanding of stellar motion, dying white dwarfs and the origin of the solar system, died on Monday at his home in Minneapolis. He was 95.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Born on Java, Dr. Luyten (pronounced LOY-ten) spent much of his career at the University of Minnesota. He started in 1930 as an assistant professor and served as professor of astronomy and department chairman for many years before reaching emeritus status in 1967.
        He was noted for his work with the photographic-plate scanner and a computerized version of the device that he developed in the 1960's. He was aided in that ambitious undertaking by financing from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the expertise of engineers of the Control Data Corporation.
        The computerized version, which was a laser scanner and measuring device, tracked stars on plates taken several years apart with the same telescope. It automated what had been a highly cumbersome process of studying star motions.
        The computerized scanner produced more than 400,000 new stellar motions from images made for the Palomar-National Geographic Survey, including more than 6,000 of the stars known as white dwarfs. Dr. Luyten found some 90 percent of the white dwarfs known to exist at the time.
        A white dwarf is an exotic stellar species of enormous density that gives off little light; it is considered the final stage of evolution of most stars. For his work in that area, colleagues sometimes referred to Dr. Luyten as the "stellar mortician."
        His favorite anecdote on the subject concerned the time he asked the National Science Foundation for financial help in organizing a conference on white dwarfs. He said his request prompted a letter from the Surgeon General "that human subjects couldn't be used for experimentation and that Federal money could not be used for race discrimination."
        The University of Minnesota did not have observational equipment, but Dr. Luyten received much help from observatories in this country and abroad. He said that international cooperation was essential among astronomers, and he liked to call himself the most successful parasite in the field.
        He was born in Semarang on Java, then part of the Dutch East Indies. As a boy, he become curious about astronomy when an uncle awakened him to marvel at Halley's Comet in 1910 as it lit up the sky, bright enough to cast a shadow. "A sight you don't forget," he said. He graduated from the University of Amsterdam and earned a doctorate in astronomy at the University of Leiden in 1921.
        He also studied at the Royal Observatory in England and the Lick Observatory of the University of California. From 1923 to 1930 he worked as an astronomer and assistant professor at Harvard University before moving to Minneapolis. He published 490 articles in 71 years of research.
        In the 1920's, while at Lick and Harvard, he also reported for The New York Times on events like the total solar eclipse of January 1925. He went up in a plane to report on the dramatic scene and photograph the moon's shadow as it moved across Manhattan.
        Dr. Luyten is survived by his wife of 64 years, Willemina Miedema Luyten; two daughters, Mona L. Coetzee of Pittsburgh, and Ann L. Dieperink of Afton, Minn.; a son, Dr. James R. Luyten of Falmouth, Mass.; seven grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      