
        Jerry Rubin, the firebrand 1960's radical who used to preach distrust of "anyone over 30," died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 56 and lived in Los Angeles..
        The cause was cardiac arrest, a hospital spokesman said. Mr. Rubin was struck by a car on Nov. 15 in Los Angeles. Local authorities said he was hit while jaywalking. He underwent surgery later that day, at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center and subsequently was listed in critical condition there.
        Mr. Rubin was a bearded standard-bearer of the New Left in the 1960's who helped carve himself a niche in American radical history with fey and energetic protest gestures, though his views and style changed in subsequent decades.
        Looking back years later, he called himself one of "the anticapitalistic comics of the 1960's" who used street-theater to pursue -- without much success -- "the radical dream of transforming the system from outside."
        In 1967, he campaigned to elect a pig as President the United States and dropped dollar bills onto the floor of the New York Stock Exchange.
        Earlier in the 1960's, he became a fervent opponent of the war in Vietnam, and he spoke proudly of that opposition in later decades.
        As the 1960's went on, Mr. Rubin was involved in protest activity around the country, and he became one of the group of radical defendants, the Chicago Seven, who went on trial in 1969, in Chicago. They were the subjects of Federal indictments for conspiracy to disrupt the 1968 Democratic National Convention in that city, where the police beat and tear-gassed protesters on the streets.
        The trial produced some of the most bizarre courtroom scenes in American jurisprudence. It was raucous and rowdy, punctuated by the defendant Abbie Hoffman's taunting of the iron-willed judge, Julius J. Hoffman, and it is widely seen as epitomizing the contentious 1960's, with the Vietnam War in the background and American campuses crackling with dissidence.
        Mr. Rubin and Abbie Hoffman were co-founders of the quintessential 1960's protest group, the Yippies.  At the Chicago Seven trial, in Federal District Court, Judge Hoffman aimed sarcastic remarks and occasional tirades at the defendants and their lawyers. The defendants chewed jelly beans at first and later screamed insults at the prosecutors and the judge. The other courtroom goings-on included spectators' lifting clenched fists and being thrown out by marshals.
        The trial resulted in Mr. Rubin's and his six co-defendants' being acquitted of conspiracy, but he and four of the others were found guilty of crossing state borders with the intent of inciting a riot. Later, those convictions were overturned by an appeals court, which cited, among other reasons, what it called Judge Hoffman's "antagonistic" courtroom demeanor.
        In 1970, after the trial, a book of political autobiographyby Mr. Rubin came out. Its title was "Do It! Scenarios of the Revolution," and it became a best seller."
        In 1973, Mr. Rubin was one of four men found guilty, after a trial in a Chicago court, of contempt of court for their conduct during the Chicago Seven conspiracy trial. Judge Edward Gignoux criticized the four for their outbursts against, and insults of, Judge Hoffman. But Judge Gignoux decided against imposing any jail sentences on the four, saying they had been sufficiently punished by the contempt convictions and by earlier time they had spent in jail.
        As the 1970's went on, Mr. Rubin made the rounds of what he called "the lecture circuit." And in various forums he drew attention to himself and his evolving ideas.
        He continued writing, and his book "Growing (Up) at 37" came out in 1976, by which time he had become clean-shaven."
        In 1978, Mr. Rubin, who was the son of a Cincinnati truck driver turned union official, was married to Mimi Leonard, an editor's daughter and former debutante who worked for ABC-TV in New York. They made their home in a designer-decorated apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and operated a not-for-profit foundation called The Living Forum, created to organize "how to" events to aid people in their daily lives.
        He worked briefly for the Wall Street firm of John Muir & Company and went on to make a new name for himself operating a business that promoted one variety of the interpersonal communicating that by then had become known as networking.
        Mr. Rubin was born on Bastille Day, 1938, in Cincinnati, attended Oberlin College in Ohio, worked as a reporter and editor at the Cincinnati Post and studied further at the University of Cincinnati, Hebrew University in Jerusalem and, briefly, at the University of California at Berkeley.
        Then he joined CORE, took part in anti-discrimination campaigns, and visited Fidel Castro's Cuba. Back in California in late 1964, he became involved in Berkeley's radical Free Speech Movement.
      