
        Erwin Knoll, the editor of The Progressive, an iconoclastic magazine that crusaded for civil liberties and against nuclear weapons and United States intervention abroad, died yesterday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 63.
        He died in his sleep, apparently of a heart attack, the Progressive said.
        Mr. Knoll presided over a magazine that traces its roots to Robert M. La Follette Sr., a combative maverick legislator in the early decades of the 20th century. Mr. Knoll described The Progressive, which is based in Madison, as an "ecumenical journal of the American left."
        In 1979, the year after he took over as editor, The Progressive became the first publication ever ordered by a Federal court not to print an article because of national security. The Government had sought the order to prevent The Progressive from publishing an article called "The H-Bomb Secret, How We Got It -- Why We're Telling It."
        Mr. Knoll said the article, which detailed the workings of a hydrogen bomb, was based solely on information in the public domain. But the Justice Department contended that it violated the "restricted data" sections of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954.
        Judge Robert W. Warren of Federal District Court in Milwaukee issued an injunction barring publication, declaring that some of the information in the article could cause irreparable harm to the United States. But the Justice Department dropped the case after it was challenged on a second front, when a local newspaper, The Madison Press Connection, printed a letter that the Government said also contained secret information about the bomb.
        The Progressive subsequently printed its article as it had originally been set in type.
        Born in Vienna, Mr. Knoll was brought to this country as a child. He worked at The Washington Post from 1957 to 1963, when he joined the Newhouse News Service as a White House correspondent. He left five years later to become the Washington editor of The Progressive, and five years after that he moved to Madison as the editor.
        When he died, he was working on a book about capital punishment, a practice he considered an abomination. He was also an occasional commentator on the "MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour" on public television,
        He is survived by his wife, Doris; two sons, David, of Madison, and Jonathan, of Boulder, Colo., and a sister, Alice Allen, of Forest Hills, Queens.
      