
        William H. Timbers, a senior judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Suffield, Conn. He was 79 and lived in Darien, Conn.
        The cause was kidney failure, said his son William H. Jr.
        Judge Timbers heard cases until last summer. A Republican, he was appointed to the appeals court by President Richard M. Nixon in 1971 and became a senior judge in 1981.
        From 1960 to 1971, Judge Timbers served on the Federal District Court in Connecticut, appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. From 1964 to 1971, he was the district's chief judge.
        His judicial career included rulings that variously affirmed defendants' rights and the importance of law and order. In 1967, on the district court, he declared unconstitutional the Lindbergh kidnapping law, which made it a Federal crime to transport a kidnapped person across a state line. He held the law unconstitutional on the ground that it restricted a defendant's right to trial by jury.
        "Defendants must risk their lives" to get a jury trial, he said, because the wording of the statute made a defendant more likely to receive a death sentence if his case was heard by a jury than if it was heard by a judge or if he pleaded guilty.
        In 1990, Judge Timbers joined in a majority opinion of the appeals court affirming that begging was not a constitutionally protected right. That ruling upheld the power of the New York City subway system to bar panhandlers and held that "begging in the subway often amounts to nothing less than assault."
        In 1992, Judge Timbers wrote a majority opinion blocking the extradition of a former member of the Irish Republican Army on the ground that a new treaty with Britain specifically aimed at I.R.A. guerrillas in the United States unlawfully singled him out for punishment.
        The judge was born in Yonkers, grew up in Glen Ridge, N.J., and graduated from Dartmouth College and Yale Law School. He was a partner in Cummings & Lockwood, a Stamford, Conn., law firm; general counsel to the Securities and Exchange Commission and a partner in the Manhattan-based law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate & Timbers, which is now Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.
        Besides his son William, of New Canaan, Conn., he is survived by his wife, Charlotte; two other sons, John, of Stamford, and Dwight, of Darien; a daughter, Nancy, of Palo Alto, Calif.; a brother, Harley, of Emmaus, Pa., and 10 grandchildren.
      