
        David B. Feinberg, an author and Act Up member who chronicled AIDS in his books and battled it in the streets, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 37.
        The cause was AIDS, said Wayne Kawadler, a friend.
        Mr. Feinberg's two fictional works, "Eighty-Sixed" and "Spontaneous Combustion," traced the devastation of gay life in New York by the AIDS epidemic. His latest book, "Queer and Loathing: Rants and Raves of a Raging AIDS Clone," a collection of autobiographical essays, is to be published in three weeks by Viking.
        Mr. Feinberg was born in Lynn, Mass. He graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1978 and received a master's degree in linguistics from New York University in 1981. That year, he began working for the Modern Language Association in Manhattan.
        In the novel "Eighty-Sixed," published by Viking in 1989, Mr. Feinberg introduced a central character named B. J. Rosenthal, whose breezy, promiscuous existence in 1980 is contrasted with the frightening reality of 1986, when friends and former lovers are growing sick and dying.
        Catherine Texier, a novelist, wrote in The New York Times Book Review that "Eighty-Sixed" was distinguished by "its frankness, ferocious wit and total lack of sentimentality or self-pity."
        "What carries the novel," she wrote, "is B. J.'s brave, unrelenting voice, totally authentic and becoming ever more poignant as it refuses to break down."
        B. J. Rosenthal reappeared in "Spontaneous Combustion," a collection of interconnected stories published by Viking in 1991. Trying to find a way to tell his mother he is infected, B. J. comes up with, "I'm sorry I contracted the deadly H.I.V. virus, Mother, and I promise I won't do it again."
        Mr. Feinberg's own infection with H.I.V. was diagnosed in 1987. He joined Act Up and was arrested half a dozen times at demonstrations sponsored by the group to protest official indifference or hostility, including the disruption of the Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral in December 1989.
        But in a speech delivered a month ago, and then adapted for publication in New York Newsday, he complained that Act Up "wastes precious time bickering" and "indulging its obsession with the Catholic Church" at a time when he wanted "every argument and action to help save my life."
        Mr. Feinberg is survived by his mother, Betty, and sister, Lynn Harris, both of Syracuse.
      