
        Sir John Pope-Hennessy, a former museum director, an authority on the Italian Renaissance and the head of European painting at the Metropolitan Museum of Art from 1977 to 1986, died yesterday at his home in Florence. He was 80.
        The cause was complications from a liver ailment, said Alton Peters, Sir John's lawyer in New York City.
        In London, Sir John was the director of the Victoria and Albert Museum (1967-73) and the British Museum (1974-76). He was the only person to have been director of both.
        In 1976, after more than 30 years with major museums, he decided to go back to work as an independent scholar. He at once received overtures from both the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the Metropolitan Museum. In 1977, he accepted a dual position in New York as consultative chairman of the department of European paintings at the Metropolitan and professor of art history at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts.
        He fulfilled this double function with notable success until 1986, when he retired and went to live in Florence; he continued to teach at the institute for part of each year. He was made an honorary citizen of Siena in 1982. Earlier this year, he was made an honorary citizen of Florence.
        Though involved for most of his adult life with museum work at its highest level, Sir John, who was knighted in 1971, found the time to research and publish, in book after book, a panoramic survey of painting and sculpture in Italy from the early Renaissance to the Baroque.
        Among the individual artists whom he surveyed at length and in depth were Giovanni di Paolo (1937), Sassetta (1939), Domenichino (1948), Paolo Uccello (1950), Fra Angelico (1952), Raphael (from the 1965 Wrightsman Lectures in New York), Luca della Robbia (1980), Benvenuto Cellini (1985) and Donatello (1993).
        John Wyndham Pope-Hennessy was born in London on Dec. 13, 1913. His father, Maj. Gen. Sir Richard Pope-Hennessy, served for a time as military attache at the British Embassy in Washington. Sir John's mother, Dame Una Pope-Hennessy, was the author of books on the French Revolution, Chinese jades and Charles Dickens. Her son was taught to share her horror of slipshod work and her standards of accuracy and clarity.
        His was in many ways a fortunate start in life, with immediate access to everyone he wanted to meet. This gave him the intellectual and the social assurance that was to serve him well.
        In 1926, when he was 12 years old, he walked into a Washington bookstore with his parents, dipped into Crowe and Cavalcaselle's "North Italian Painting" and was never the same again.
        He did not have, and never sought, any formal training in art history. But at Downside, a Benedictine school in England, he pursued his newfound vocation in every spare moment. Later he had a rigorous training as a political and intellectual historian at Balliol College, Oxford.
        After graduating in 1935, he sold some islands off Borneo that had been bequeathed to him by an uncle and spent the money on two years of private art-history study in Europe.
        He traveled, he looked, he thought and he wrote. He also listened to senior art historians, many of them refugees from Nazi Germany, and learned much from their methodology, their standards of interpretation and their sometimes hilarious quirks. He could also characterize them in just a few words, as when he referred to the "gentle, dogmatic, unpersuasive voice" of an art historian who aspired to mate Marxism with 15th-century Italian art.
        A new challenge always amused him. When appointed to the staff of the Victoria and Albert Museum in 1938, he applied himself with memorable effect to the study of English portrait miniatures, whose distinction was underrated at the time.
        After five years' service in air-force intelligence during World War II, he returned to Europe in 1944. Never a blinkered specialist, he was one of the first Englishmen to report in print on recent work of Matisse and Picasso in the Salon d'Automne in liberated Paris.
        When he rejoined the Victoria and Albert Museum, he stipulated that he be assigned to a department of which he knew nothing. Many years later, he spoke almost with nostalgia of the ramified obligations that had come his way in great miscellaneous museums, where he had had to deal with "everything from Victorian brass lecterns to filthy plastic bags full of the mummies of Peruvian children."
        In 1991, Sir John published an autobiography, "Learning To Look." It was as remarkable for its detailed recall, both private and professional, as for the pungency of its well-calculated indiscretions.
        His last book, "Donatello," was published just before his 80th birthday. Though clearly in failing health, he came to New York for the party that celebrated its publication. He then returned to Florence, the city in which he had always wished to live and eventually to die.
        No immediate family members survive.
      