
        Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen, a grand old man of economics who fled to the United States after Communists came to power in Romania, died on Sunday at the Vanderbilt University hospital in Nashville. He was 88.
        Professor Georgescu-Roegen suffered complications of diabetes and had been ill for some time, said Anthony Tang, a member of the Vanderbilt economics faculty and a close friend of his family. Professor Georgescu-Roegen was on the economics faculty of Vanderbilt for more than 25 years, until he retired in 1976.
        Fiery, strong willed and bristling with conviction, Professor Georgescu-Roegen was one of the top mathematical economists of his generation, but his interests included pure theory, economic history, biology and physics. His mathematical papers on consumer behavior, written in the 1930's, became instant classics. Forty years later, he was one of the first economists to reason rigorously about the interplay of economic growth and the environment, an achievement that made him a perennial candidate for a Nobel prize, although he never won one.
        Always interested in the big picture, Professor Georgescu-Roegen solved problems that would scarcely have engaged more conventional economists.
        One example, recalled Professor Paul Samuelson, a Nobel laureate, was an ingenious (and correct) explanation for why the ratio of baby boys to baby girls did not rise sharply in the wake of World War II, as it had during World War I. His argument involved the technology of war, the pattern of military leaves and the timing of conception. "That's not the kind of things Schumpeter would have figured out," said Professor Samuelson, referring to Joseph A. Schumpeter, the legendary growth economist at Harvard.
        Professor Georgescu-Roegen was born of Greek descent in Constanta, Romania, on Feb. 4, 1906, the son of a Romanian army officer. A bright youngster, he received an education in mathematics and statistics from some of the leading European scholars of the day. Professor Georgescu-Roegen earned the equivalent of a master's degree in mathematics from the University of Bucharest in 1926 and a doctorate in mathematical statistics from the Sorbonne in 1930, when he was 24.
        He continued his postgraduate studies in London, under the statistician Karl Pearson, before accepting a teaching post at the University of Bucharest in 1932, when he married a fellow mathematician, Otilia. The two were known among economists as an exceptionally close couple with similar interests in mathematics, politics and music. She survives him.
        Against the backdrop of depression and rising fascism in Europe, Professor Georgescu-Roegen spent two idyllic and highly productive years at Harvard as a Rockefeller fellow in the mid-1930's. There he worked closely with Professor Schumpeter. During that "apprenticeship" in economics, as he called it, Professor Georgescu-Roegen published three theoretical papers that immediately established his reputation. Professor Schumpeter urged him to stay in the United States, but, an ardent patriot, he insisted that his native land needed him more than Harvard did.
        In Bucharest, Professor Georgescu-Roegen became more and more involved in Romania's monarchist Government, holding various advisory and administrative posts and serving for a time as a delegate to the League of Nations. After World War II, he helped negotiate the peace with the Soviets on behalf of the Government.
        As the Communists consolidated their power, Professor Georgescu-Roegen and his wife fled Romania in 1948 by stowing away aboard a freighter bound for Istanbul, hiding in barrels. The couple first went to Harvard, but within a year Professor Georgescu-Roegen was offered a permanent post at Vanderbilt University in Nashville. There, he dominated the economics department for more than 25 years.
        During the 1970's, Professor Georgescu-Roegen's fame spread when he developed a critique of standard economic theory and published "The Entropy Law and the Economic Process" (Harvard University Press, 1971), which appealed to the growing environmental movement. He invoked the second law of thermodynamics -- useful energy gets dissipated -- to argue that the economy faced limits to growth. The trouble with the economics of John Maynard Keynes and Professor Samuelson, he argued, was that they envisioned the world's economy as a pendulum. The better metaphor, he said, was an hourglass.
      