
        Swaran Singh, Foreign Minister of India when it backed East Pakistan's breaking away from West Pakistan to form Bangladesh, died on Sunday in New Delhi, where he lived. He was 87.
        The cause was not immediately made public.
        Mr. Singh, a Sikh from Punjab Province in northwestern India, was Foreign Minister from 1964 to 1966 and from 1970 to 1974.
        In 1971, he, his wife, the former Sardarni Charanjit Kaur, and their four daughters were living quietly in New Delhi. But he was thrust into the diplomatic limelight as spokesman for his country when India's support for East Pakistani secessionist guerrillas led to a brief war between his country and Pakistan, which India won.
        On Dec. 12, 1971, while the war went on, Mr. Singh addressed the United Nations Security Council for an hour and a half. An imposing turbaned figure, he said, over and over, that the root cause of the conflict was the "brutal repression" of the populace in East Pakistan by the Pakistani military Government and the forced flight of East Pakistani refugees to India.
        On Dec. 16, 1971, the secessionist leaders of Bangladesh, as they called their country, took over when the West Pakistani troops there surrendered to Indians who had seized the city of Dacca in support of the guerrillas' movement. At the United Nations, Mr. Singh called on the world to recognize "the reality of Bangladesh."
        He was a Cabinet minister continuously from 1952, when he joined Prime Minister Jawarharlal Nehru's Government, to 1975, when he left the Government of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. As independent India's longest-serving Cabinet minister he held a variety of portfolios, ranging from railways to defense.
        He was born in the village of Shankar in what is now Punjab Province, studied physics and law in the city of Lahore, now in Pakistan, practiced law and then plunged into politics. In the 1970's he was twice president of the Indian National Congress political party.
      