
        Ralph W. G. Wyckoff, a research scientist who achieved renown in electron microscopy and crystallography, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Tucson, Ariz., where he lived. He was 97.
        The cause was bone cancer, said his wife, Laura.
        In his long career, Dr. Wyckoff used electron microscopes to study viruses and the composition of cells, helped develop the ultracentrifuge, a high-speed centrifuge for segregating microscopic and submicroscopic materials to determine the sizes and molecular weights of small particles, and purified the virus that causes equine encephalomyelitis, leading to the development of an effective vaccine to combat an epidemic among horses. The success of that work led to a program for producing a typhus vaccine.
        At the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Cleveland in 1950, Dr. Wyckoff introduced a new world of living matter revealed for the first time by the electron microscope, displaying photographs of viruses and molecular particles 5 to 10 atoms in diameter, or about two-tenths of a millionth of a centimeter.
        "This direct penetration to a deeper layer of nature offers almost limitless possibility for further knowledge," he said at that meeting.
        Through his research, Dr. Wyckoff explored matters like the structure of cells, the effects of radiation on cells, the purification of viruses and, most recently, the nature and composition of proteins of earlier forms of life, as preserved in fossils.
        His scientific publications included more than 200 books and some 400 technical papers, about 85 of them devoted to crystallography, 30 others to pure physics and the rest to various aspects of biophysical research.
        He was a native of Geneva, N.Y., and received a bachelor of science degree from Hobart College in 1916 and a doctorate in chemistry from Cornell University in 1919. Besides teaching at Cornell, Michigan and the University of Arizona, he worked at the Carnegie Institution, the Rockefeller Institute, the Lederle and Reichel laboratories and, from 1945 to 1959, he was the senior scientist, scientist director and biophysicist of the National Institutes of Health of the United States Public Health Service. He also served for two years as science attache at the United States Embassy in London.
        Dr. Wyckoff was a member of many professional organizations, and was a president of the American Crystallographic Association and the Electronic Microscope Society of America, a fellow of the American Physical Society and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
        He was also a foreign member of the Royal Society of London, the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences and an associate member of the Academy of Sciences in Paris. His awards included the medal of the Pasteur Institute.
        Besides his wife, Dr. Wyckoff is survived by a son, Ralph W. G. Wyckoff Jr. of Salem, Ore., and two daughters, Anne Elias of Chicago and Grietje Sloan of Boulder, Colo., eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      