
        Dr. James W. Watts, a neurosurgeon who performed the first frontal lobotomy in the United States, died on Monday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 90 and lived in Washington.
        The cause of his death was cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said.
        The operation, in which cells in the frontal lobes of the brain were destroyed in an effort to treat mental disorders and severe pain, was first performed in this country in 1936 at the George Washington University Hospital in Washington by Dr. Watts and Dr. Walter Freeman, a neurologist who died in 1972. By 1950 they had performed more than 1,000 lobotomies, and a decade later, doctors nationwide had performed an estimated 50,000.
        The use of psychosurgery anywhere was first described in a published account in 1891 by Dr. Gottlieb Burckhardt, director of a Swiss asylum. Four decades later, in the 1930's, the lobotomy technique was popularized by Egas Moniz, a Portuguese neuropsychiatrist.
        Even at the peak of use in the early 1950's, when about 5,000 lobotomies a year were performed in the United States, opponents strongly criticized the lobotomy, declaring that patients could suffer irreversible brain damage, severe seizures, and in about 5 percent of cases, death. Many doctors were unconvinced that lobotomies were in the best interest of patients.
        The conventional Freeman-Watts lobotomy involved drilling holes in the skull, and inserting and rotating a knife to destroy brain cells in an attempt to sever links between a region in the thalamus and part of the prefrontal lobes.
        The technique was introduced as a form of treatment for severe mental and neurological disorders in the absence of alternative approaches. With the development of psychoactive drugs in the 1950's to treat ailments that lobotomies were supposed to address, the use of the procedure was phased out as a general practice, said Dr. Elliot S. Valenstein, a University of Michigan professor and the author of "Great and Desperate Cures: The Rise and Decline of Psychosurgery and Other Radical Treatments for Mental Illness."
        Today, fewer than 150 psychosurgical operations are performed in the United States each year, he estimated. They are used to destroy very small regions of the frontal lobes of severely disabled patients, he added.
        "When Dr. Freeman talked to the press, which he liked to quite a bit," Professor Valenstein said, "he used to say that what this operation does is separate the emotional brain, which is how he referred to the thalamus, from the thinking brain, which was the frontal lobes."
        Dr. Watts estimated that he performed or supervised 3,500 psychosurgical operations, including lobotomies, during his career. He retired from private practice in 1986.
        In the late 1940's, after a disagreement over when and by whom lobotomies should be performed, Dr. Watts moved out of the offices he shared with Dr. Freeman.
        James Winston Watts was born on Jan. 19, 1904, in Lynchburg, Va. He graduated from the Virginia Military Institute and the University of Virginia medical school. He also trained at Massachusetts General Hospital, and studied at Yale University and the University of Pennsylvania.
        Dr. Watts served as chief of neurosurgery at George Washington University from 1935 to 1969, and was the chairman of the department of neurology and neurological surgery from 1954 to 1969. He was also president of the District of Columbia medical society in 1957 and 1958.
        He wrote two books on lobotomies with Dr. Freeman: "Psychosurgery, Intelligence, Emotion and Social Behavior Following Prefrontal Lobotomy for Medical Disorders" in 1942 and "Psychosurgery in the Treatment of Mental Disorders and Intractable Pain" in 1950.
        He is survived by his wife of 63 years, Julia Harrison Watts; two sons, Randolph H. Watts of Alexandria, and J. Winston Watts of Mathews County, Va., and four grandchildren.
      