
        Manuel Gomez Guerreiro, a retired judge of the Family Court of New York City, died on Tuesday at Clinica Las Americas in San Juan, P.R. He was 69 and had homes in San Juan, Middletown, N.Y., and Hudson, N.Y.
        The cause of death was heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Guerreiro was born in Manhattan to Spanish immigrant parents. He was engaged in social causes for much of his life. Mayor John V. Lindsay appointed him to the Family Court and swore him in in February 1968, making him one of the few Hispanic judges then in the New York court system.
        In the early 1970's, Judge Guerreiro decided a benchmark case -- Alpert v. State of New York -- concerning the rights of handicapped children to receive appropriate schooling at state expense. He completed his 10-year term in 1977 and retired from the bench. Since then he had been in private practice in Middletown. Civil Rights Rallies
        He graduated from City College in 1946 and earned his law degree at Harvard Law School in 1949. That year he joined the Manhattan District Attorney's office as the first Hispanic to become an assistant district attorney there, serving in that post until 1954.
        While living in Washington Heights, he organized the Legal Aid Society of Harlem. In the early 1960's he helped marshal civil rights rallies to support the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and denounce violence aimed at black protesters in the segregated South.
        Under Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller he was the attorney for the state's first methadone-maintenance program for heroin and morphine addicts. Gov. Mario M. Cuomo later honored him with a special citation for his service on the bench.
        At his death he was the lawyer for the rural-education program in Middletown.
        Mr. Guerreiro is survived by his wife, Jane Prizant-Gilman; a son, Matthew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Beatriz Guerreiro-Rowe of Darien, Conn.; two stepsons, Harrison Gilman of Middletown and Jonathan Gilman of Flemington, N.J; a stepdaughter, Susan Harts of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      