
        S. O. Adebo, a pioneer of the Nigerian civil service, and a former United Nations envoy and university president, died of a stroke on Sept. 30 at Sacred Heart Hospital in Abeokuta, Nigeria. He was 80.
        Chief Adebo served as Nigeria's representative at the United Nations from 1962 to 1967 and as United Nations Under Secretary General and Executive General of the United Nations Institute for Training and Research until 1972. He retired as Chancellor of the University of Lagos two years ago.
        Simeon Olaosebikan Adebo was born near Abeokuta in Western Nigeria, and became an Okanlomo (Chief) of the Yoruba people like his father, a farmer, before him. He started out as a clerk in the Nigerian Railways before joining the Government Service as a cadet administrative officer in 1943.
        He graduated from King's College in Lagos, went to England to study law and upon graduation from London University was admitted to the bar. He then rose through the ranks in his country's Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and in 1961 became head of the Civil Service and Chief Secretary to the Government of Western Nigeria.
        Along the way, Chief Adebo acquired the reputation of a leader who would thresh out vexing policy matters and encourage his subordinates to speak their minds freely.
        During his years in New York he served as a vice president of the Association of World Federalists, president of the Society for International Development and a consultant to the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in California.
        Back home in the 1970's he became a business executive and head of a number of corporations and headed the National Universities Commission and the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies. Before becoming Chancellor of Lagos University in 1984 he held the same position at Obafemi Awolowo University at Ile-Ife.
        Anglican and deeply religious, he was a former First Registrar of the Church of the Province of West Africa and member of the Diocese of Lagos. He also published two volumes of memoirs in the 1980's.
        He married another chief's daughter in 1941, Regina Abimbola Majekodunmi, who survives. He is also survived by a daughter, Funlayo Adebo-Kiencke, and three sons, Prof. Oluwole Adebo, Abiodun Adebo and Dr. Oladipo Adebo, all of Nigeria.
      