
        Charles H. Tenney, a senior judge in the Federal District Court in Manhattan and a former deputy mayor under Robert F. Wagner, died yesterday at his home in Islip, L.I. Mr. Tenney, who also had an apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, was 83.
        The cause was cancer, said Marguerite T. Embry, his daughter.
        For a decade and a half, until his death, he was a senior judge of his court, to which he was first named in 1964.
        Judge Tenney was a close friend of Mayor Wagner, who held office from 1954 to 1965. They were classmates at Yale College and roommates at Yale Law School. In 1955, he joined the Wagner administration as Commissioner of Investigation. He went on to be Corporation Counsel -- the city's chief lawyer -- and then City Administrator before taking the job of Deputy Mayor-City Administrator until he became a judge.
        In his years on the bench, Judge Tenney presided over several highly publicized cases involving the issue of racial discrimination. In 1991, he signed a settlement ending a housing discrimination suit that was part of a feud involving different groups of Brooklyn residents. In the settlement, the New York City Housing Authority agreed to accept only black or Hispanic applicants for vacancies over several years in three housing projects, all in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn, where 68 percent of the residents were Hasidic Jews.
        In 1980, the judge issued an injunction barring a Brooklyn housing development, Bedford Gardens, from using a racial quota to favor Hasidic Jews over blacks and Puerto Ricans in the renting of apartments.
        And in 1976, he ordered two New York City locals of the International Union of Operating Engineers, a construction union, to increase the total percentage of blacks and Puerto Ricans in their membership sixfold, to 36 percent, within five years. But that order was overturned by an appeals court.
        As Corporation Counsel from 1958 to 1961, Judge Tenney managed a staff of more than 200 lawyers, and his work ranged from legislative preparations for the World's Fair of 1964, in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in Queens, to drawing up legislation to combat short-weighing and other schemes by food dealers to defraud customers.
        Earlier, as Investigation Commissioner from 1955 to 1958, he conducted many inquiries into city departments and agencies. Among them were investigations that led to the resignation of some City Council members in conflict-of-interest cases.
        Judge Tenney was born in Manhattan and attended the Buckley School there and the Choate School in Wallingford, Conn.
        He was with the New York law firm of Breed, Abbott & Morgan from 1936 to 1955, with time out for duty as a Navy intelligence officer during World War II, on aircraft carriers in the Pacific. He was a partner in the firm from 1951 to 1955.
        Judge Tenney married Joan Penfold Lusk in 1938.
        In addition to his wife and his daughter Marguerite Embry, who lives in Manhattan, he is survived by three other daughters, Patricia T. Ruggieri of Water Mill, L.I., and Joan T. Howard and Anne G. Tenney, both of Manhattan; a son, Charles H. Jr., of Elizabethtown, N.Y.; eight grandchildren; one great-grandchild, and a brother, Daniel G. Tenney Jr. of Locust Valley, L.I.
      