
        David Salomon, one of the leading decorators of his generation, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 45.
        The cause was an AIDS-related heart attack, according to John S. Knott Jr., a friend.
        Mr. Salomon was known for his vibrant, lush rooms where he combined a sense of history with a flair for the stylish and exotic.
        Born in Oak Park, Ill., on July 26, 1949, Mr. Salomon studied painting at Drake University in Des Moines and at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago.
        After moving to New York in 1971, he worked in the interior design department of the Bonwit Teller store. After helping the wife of the president of the store decorate her apartment, and subsequently being recommended to many of her friends, he developed a growing list of clients with a taste for tradition.
        A bold use of color, a sophisticated mix of artworks and objects -- often from the 19th century -- and an appreciation for patterned textiles and rugs were some of the hallmarks of his style. Mr. Salomon favored the European look of the 19th century and, although he was able to be historically accurate, he would always imbue the rooms he decorated with a sense of comfort and warmth.
        Often, he credited his sensibility and taste to a number of mentors, including his grandfather the late Francoise de la Renta, an expert cabinetmaker who introduced him to Baron Guy and Marie-Helene de Rothschild and Geoffrey Bennison, the late English decorator who was designing a New York apartment for the Rothschilds. Mr. Bennison hired Mr. Salomon as his assistant. The resulting decor, grand without being stuffy, and layered with rich textiles and antique kilim carpets, came to be known as the "style Rothschild."
        Mr. Salomon's clients have included Sigourney Weaver, the actress; Jerry Della Femina, the advertising executive and restaurateur, and his wife, the television reporter Judy Licht, and Frederic Fekkai, the hair stylist.
        Mr. Salomon is survived by his mother, Dorothy Salomone and a brother, Patrick Salomone , both of Chicago.
        Correction:  November 16, 1994, Wednesday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about David Salomon, a decorator, misstated his relationship with the late Francoise de la Renta. She was his mentor, not a grandparent.
      