
        Calvin S. Fuller, a chemist who was a co-inventor of a device to convert solar energy into electricity, died on Friday at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 92.
        He had been in poor health for several years, said Robert B. Ford, a media relations manager at AT&T Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, N.J., where Dr. Fuller worked for 37 years before retiring in 1967.
        Dr. Fuller invented his device, originally called a solar battery but now called the solar cell , in 1954 when he was on the staff at the Murray Hill laboratories, which were then called Bell Telephone Laboratories. Helping him were two colleagues, Gerald L. Pearson and Daryl M. Chapin. .
        The device helped make the space program practical, Mr. Ford said, because space vehicles could get power from readily available sunlight.
        Spacecraft use electricity, while they are in flight, to provide power for computers and other electrical equipment. In addition, some fuel is carried, to provide jet thrusts to steer the craft.
        The solar cell was given a public demonstration at Murray Hill in 1954. The first time the cells were put on board an operational space vehicle, and used, was in 1962, on AT&T's Telstar communications satellite. The cells, flat black square plates of silicon that absorb sunlight, have since been made in various sizes.
        During part of World War II, Dr. Fuller had a Government post administering research in synthetic rubber. Later he was a consultant to the Research and Development Board of the Defense Department. Over the years, he was granted 33 patents.
        The honors he received for his work on the solar cell included the John Scott Medal from the City of Philadelphia and the Wetherill Medal from the Franklin Institute, a science institute in Philadelphia.
        Dr. Fuller was born in Chicago and received a Ph.D. in physical chemistry in 1929 from the University of Chicago.
        He was living in Chatham, N.J., when he retired and moved to Vero Beach.
        He is survived by his wife, Willmine; three sons, Robert W., of Berkeley, Calif., Stephen S., of Alexandria, Va., and John W., of Silver Spring, Md.; and eight grandchildren.
      