
        William A. Higinbotham, a physicist who developed electronic components for the first atomic bomb and then became a leading advocate of controlling nuclear weapons, died on Thursday at his home in Gainesville, Ga. He was 84.
        The cause was emphysema, his family said.
        Mr. Higinbotham was a group leader in electronics at Los Alamos, N.M., where the first atomic bomb was developed during World War II. But he soon helped establish a group of scientists, the Federation of American Scientists, that warned about the risks posed by nuclear weapons unless they were tightly controlled.
        Mr. Higinbotham has also been called the grandfather of modern video games. In 1958, as a senior physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, he built for the laboratory's annual public show what was very possibly the first video game -- a tennis game that was displayed on a tiny cathode ray tube.
        "It took me about two hours to rough out the design and a couple of weeks to get it debugged and working," he said in an interview in 1983. "It didn't take long and it was a big hit."
        Mr. Higinbotham had more than 20 patents on electronic circuits to his credit, but he never patented his video game, which associates said was the forerunner of the early 1970's video game "Pong." Mr. Higinbotham, discussing in 1983 his decision not to seek the patent, said, "It wasn't something the Government was interested in" and that he "didn't think it was worth it."
        All told, Mr. Higinbotham spent 47 years at Brookhaven, from 1947 until his retirement in 1984 as a senior physicist, then served as a consultant until his death.
        But throughout his career, controlling nuclear arms was Mr. Higinbotham's primary interest. The Federation of American Scientists planned to honor him next month by renaming its headquarters in Washington Higinbotham Hall.
        Born in Bridgeport, Conn., and reared in Caledonia, N.Y., where his father was a Presbyterian minister, Mr. Higinbotham graduated from Williams College in 1932. He did graduate work at Cornell University, but transferred to a radiation laboratory at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology when the United States entered World War II in 1941.
        He was married three times; two of his wives, Julie Ann and Margaret, died. He is survived by his wife, Edna; two daughters, Julie Schletter of Largo, Fla., and Robin Clark of Brookhaven, L.I.; a son, William, of Bellport, L.I.; a brother, John; a sister, Dorothy Osgood, and two grandchildren.
      