
        Joseph H. Hazen, a retired lawyer, film producer, art collector and philanthropist, died on Sunday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 96..
        He died in his sleep, said his daughter, Cynthia Hazen Polsky.
        A member of the bar in Washington and New York City, Mr. Hazen was a former vice president and director of Warner Brothers. He served as the film company's lawyer for 17 years, and wrote the contract between the studio and Edison Vitaphone that resulted in "The Jazz Singer," the first motion picture with sound. He resigned from Warners in 1944 when the studio and Hal B. Wallis, its executive producer and chief of production, parted company.
        The two men then became partners in Hal Wallis Productions, later Wallis-Hazen Productions, an independent producer of big-budget feature films with some of the top stars of the day. Mr. Hazen handled the business in New York while Mr. Wallis, one of the country's foremost producers, worked in Hollywood and London. Paramount Pictures distributed their films.
        Their notable movies included "Love Letters" (1945), with Jennifer Jones and Joseph Cotten; "The Strange Love of Martha Ivers" (1946), with Barbara Stanwyck and Kirk Douglas; "So Evil My Love" (1948), with Ray Milland and Ann Todd; "Sorry, Wrong Number" (1948), with Miss Stanwyck and Burt Lancaster, and "Come Back, Little Sheba" (1952), with Mr. Lancaster and Shirley Booth. Mr. Wallis also developed the comedy team of Dean Martin and Jerry Lewis into a leading box-office draw.
        In 1953 Mr. Hazen announced the dissolution of Wallis-Hazen as an independent production company, citing the economic risks and saying, "The history of this business proves that too many individual producers, using their own money as we do, have gotten into trouble and wound up broke because they didn't know when to quit."
        Even so, his family said, the collaboration went on for 15 more years, with Mr. Wallis, Mr. Hazen and Paramount entering into joint-venture agreements one picture at a time. In 1968 Mr. Hazen was co-producer of his last such film, "Anne of the Thousand Days," starring Richard Burton, Genevieve Bujold, Irene Papas and Anthony Quayle.
        Mr. Hazen also managed family investments and charitable activities. He was the president of the Joseph H. Hazen Foundation, which made donations to cultural and educational institutions in the United States and Israel. It also supported hospitals, giving $3 million to Mount Sinai Medical Center in 1990 for outpatient cardiac care.
        Mr. Hazen was born in Kingston, N.Y., and earned degrees from George Washington University and its law school. He was president emeritus of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and a member of the visiting committee for 20th-century art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the collector's committee of the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the International Council of the Museum of Modern Art.
        Mr. Hazen's eclectic art collection included works by van Gogh, Toulouse-Lautrec, Braque, Picasso, Kandinsky and Modigliani. Many of them are now on display at the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University in Cambridge, Mass.
        In addition to his daughter, of Manhattan, he is survived by his wife of 58 years, Lita Annenberg Hazen; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      