
        Sir Patrick Dean, who was Britain's representative at the United Nations from 1960 to 1964 and Ambassador to the United States from 1965 to 1969, died on Nov. 5 in Kingston in the English county of Surrey. He was 85 and lived in London.
        Sir Patrick gave up his law practice at the outbreak of World War II, joined the British Foreign Office and became a leading light of the British Foreign Service. He was knighted in 1957 and retired from the Foreign Service in 1969.
        In later years he was chairman of the English Speaking Union. And he was chairman of the governors of his old school, Rugby, in the mid-1970's, when it became coeducational after four centuries of admitting only boys. He was also an adviser to the American Express Company.
        In his years at the United Nations, Sir Patrick won praise for his effectiveness as an advocate, particularly in the Security Council. The Times of London, in reviewing his career on Nov. 8, said, "In New York his legal training, his clear brain, his sound judgment and strong nerves and perhaps especially his stamina enabled him to meet the incessant demands of this exacting post."
        Admirers said he savored oratorical duels with his Soviet opposite number, Valerian Zorin. In debate late in 1960, Mr. Zorin asserted that the United States and Dag Hammarskjold, then the United Nations' Secretary General, had brought about the downfall of Patrice Lumumba's Government in the Congo. In rebuttal, Sir Patrick contended that Mr. Zorin's assertions and an official Soviet paper that Mr. Zorin had presented were "disgraceful," "calamitous" and concocted by a Soviet "department for vilification of the U.N."
        The son of a professor of pathology at Cambridge University, he had a brilliant undergraduate career at Cambridge, where he earned a first-class honors degree in classics. He began at the Foreign Office as an assistant legal adviser and went on to handle World War II issues like blockades, Lend Lease, exiled Allied governments in London and prisoner-of-war negotiations with Germany and Italy.
        He was also a legal adviser at the Yalta Conference, in February 1945, dealing with the repatriation of prisoners, and at the Potsdam Conference, in July and August 1945. And he was an adviser during the postwar Nuremberg trials of German war criminals and to the British Control Commission in occupied Germany.
        In 1946 he was named head of the German Political Department of the British Foreign Office. He went on to hold other important posts, abroad and in London, where, in the years before he went to the United Nations, he was chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee, overseeing liaison between Britain's military services and its Government's civilian departments.
        He is survived by his wife of five decades, the former Patricia Jackson; and two sons.
      