
        Arnold H. Swenson, who sold books to five decades of students at Columbia, Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Tuesday in South Yarmouth, Mass., where he had lived for the last three years. He was 90 and had been a resident of Mashpee, Mass., since his retirement in 1977.
        He suffered a short illness, said his son Peter, also of Mashpee.
        Mr. Swenson began working part time at the Columbia University Bookstore in 1929 as a graduate student, and in 1942 joined the store full time. He was manager and associate director over the next 24 years, choosing from among publishers' offerings as well as required or recommended reading lists.
        He left in 1966 to become director of the book operation at the Harvard Coop, which serves students at M.I.T. as well as Harvard. Under his tenure, it became one the largest bookstores in the country.
        He strove to extend the reach of the bookseller's trade. Mr. Swenson, who served a term as president of the American Booksellers Association, said he considered it his obligation to encourage what his friend Irwin Edman, a Columbia professor and philosopher, called "unrequired reading," by not simply filling the shelves of a bookstore, but making it a place to explore.
        He also served on the White House Selection Committee during the Administrations of Presidents from Harry S. Truman to Richard M. Nixon. The committee's work was to choose as many as 400 volumes every four years for the mansion's library. Mr. Swenson once said that President Johnson thought it was a job that was better done by his wife, Lady Bird, but that President Kennedy gave the committee "one of its warmest receptions."
        A lifelong collector of books, he owned more than 5,000 volumes at his death. Hundreds were autographed by favorite authors, including James A. Michener and Norman Mailer.
        His wife of 59 years, Charlotte, died three weeks ago.
        Other survivors are another son, Gordon A., of Sterling, Va., and a grandchild.
      