
        Merton Max Gill, an academic psychoanalyst, died on Sunday at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago. Dr. Gill, who lived in Chicago, was 80 years old.
        The cause was kidney failure, said Dr. Boris M. Astrachan, head of the department of psychiatry at the University of Illinois at Chicago.
        Dr. Gill, professor emeritus at the university, was also a supervising analyst at the Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis and the Chicago Center of Psychoanalysis. He achieved prominence as a teacher and theoretician who discussed fundamental matters like the nature of psychoanalysis as a therapy and as a subject for systematic observation and research.
        Early in his career, Dr. Gill took part in a study of the initial interview in psychiatric practice, and in his later years investigated how the analyst was perceived by the patient.
        He was the author or co-author of about 50 articles and several books, including the recently published "Psychoanalysis in Transition: A Personal View" (The Analytic Press).
        He was also the recipient of numerous awards, among them the Menninger Prize of the American Psychoanalytic Association, the Heinz Hartman Prize of the New York Psychoanalytic Society and the Hans Loewald Memorial Award of the International Federation for Psychoanalytic Education. He has been named a 1994 winner of the Mary Sigourney Award for lifetime achievement in psychoanalysis.
        Dr. Gill, who was born in Chicago, received his medical degree in 1938 from the University of Chicago. He worked at the Menninger Clinic in Topeka, Kan., and at the Austen Riggs Center in Stockbridge, Mass., before joining the faculty of Yale University in 1950 and becoming an associate professor of psychiatry.
        From 1953 to 1963 he had a private practice in Berkeley, Calif., and from 1963 to 1969 he was a professor of psychiatry at the State University of New York Downstate Medical Center. Later, he was a special fellow in psychology at the National Institute of Mental Health Research Center for Mental Health in New York before becoming a professor of psychiatry at the University of Illinois in 1971. He retired in 1989.
        In addition his wife, Dr. Ilse Judas, Dr. Gill is survived by two daughters, Emmy Garnica of Cardiff by the Sea, Calif., and Deborah Fitzpatrick of Woodacre, Calif.; three sons, Kim, of San Francisco, Ben, of La Verne, Calif., and Rod, of Brooklyn; two brothers, Robert, of Rancho Bernardo, Calif., and Norman, of Milwaukee, and five grandchildren.
      