
        Erwin N. Griswold, the United States Solicitor General under two Presidents and for many years dean of the Harvard Law School, died yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 90.
        Mr. Griswold was a resident of Belmont, Mass., and Washington. The Harvard Law School announced his death last night, but the cause was not given.
        During his career, Mr. Griswold argued more cases before the United States Supreme Court than any other lawyer. A statement released yesterday by the law school called him "a champion of civil rights and a foe of McCarthyism."
        Last night, Elliot L. Richardson, the Attorney General during the Nixon Administration and a longtime friend, described Mr. Griswold as "an extraordinary man" who was held in "a certain reverence" by the faculty at Harvard.
        A native of East Cleveland, Ohio, Mr. Griswold was born on July 14, 1904. He received his bachelor's degree from Oberlin College in 1925 and three years later graduated summa cum laude from Harvard Law. Early in his career, he joined the Solicitor General's Office.
        As a staff lawyer for the Solicitor General, he became an expert at arguing tax cases before the Supreme Court, principally because no one else in the office wanted to handle them, and he became renowned for his expertise in the field. Mr. Griswold, a lifelong Republican with a background of Midwest conservatism, left Washington to return to Harvard to teach in 1934, serving as an assistant professor until 1946, when he became dean, a post he held until 1967.
        During Mr. Griswold's tenure as dean, the law school established its international legal studies program and its international tax program, doubled the size of the faculty and enrolled women.
        During the McCarthy era, Mr. Griswold denounced Senator Joseph McCarthy in his book "The Fifth Amendment Today," which examined the constitutional protection against self-incrimination.
        Five years after he became dean of the law school, Mr. Griswold rejected a demand by the president of the Massachusetts Bar Association to disband the Harvard unit of the National Lawyers Guild, then under attack by the House Committee on Un-American Activities.
        Later, Mr. Griswold was an expert witness for Thurgood Marshall, then the legal director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, in cases the group brought to lay the foundation for the Supreme Court's desegregation order in Brown v. Board of Education. He later served on the U.S. Civil Rights Commission under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.
        Mr. Griswold retired as dean in 1967 to become Solicitor General under President Johnson and he continued in that post under President Richard M. Nixon.
        In one of the most celebrated cases of the time, he supported the Nixon Administration's position that release of the Pentagon Papers, an internal Department of Defense history of the Vietnam War, would be harmful to the national security. The Supreme Court eventually ruled that publication of the papers could not be enjoined. Mr. Griswold later changed his position, saying the decision "came out exactly as it should."
        Mr. Griswold joined the the law firm of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue of Washington, D.C., in 1973 and continued arguing cases before the Supreme Court. He was also the president of the Association of American Law Schools from 1957 to 1958, and of the American Bar Foundation from 1971 to 1974.
        Mr. Griswold is survived by his wife, Harriet, whom he married in 1931; a brother, James, of Exeter, N.H.; a sister, Hope Curfman of Denver; a daughter, Hope Murrow of Cambridge, Mass.; a son, William, of Belmont, and five grandchildren.
      