
        Erwin N. Griswold, the United States Solicitor General under two Presidents, and for more than 20 years dean of the Harvard Law School, died on Saturday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 90.
        Mr. Griswold was a resident of Belmont, Mass., and Washington. The Harvard Law School announced his death on Saturday night, but the cause was not given.
        A statement released by the Harvard Law School called him "a champion of civil rights and a foe of McCarthyism."
        Elliot L. Richardson, the Attorney General during the Nixon Administration and a longtime friend of Mr. Griswold's, said, "He was an extraordinary man in many ways, not least in the discipline he imposed on himself to be fair."
        He was a man of extremely keen intellect, and he was sometimes impatient with what he thought was shoddy or wrong or meretricious. But he was also quite capable, if he thought he'd overreacted, of apologizing and correcting himself."
        The faculty at Harvard, Mr. Richardson said, held Mr. Griswold in "a certain reverence for what he had done and what he had stood for."
        "And everybody called him 'the Dean,' no matter who had succeeded him," Mr. Richardson said. "And those who did succeed him were not jealous."
        A 1960 profile of Mr. Griswold in The New York Times described him as a "lifelong Republican with a background of Midwest conservatism," who "is built like a granite block and is just as inflexible in his conceptions of basic rectitude."
        A native of East Cleveland, Ohio, Erwin Griswold was born on July 14, 1904. He received a bachelor's degree from Oberlin College in Ohio in 1925, and three years later graduated summa cum laude from Harvard Law School. For a brief time after graduation, he was with the firm of Griswold, Green, Palmer & Hadden in Cleveland, but he soon joined the Solicitor General's office in Washington.
        As a staff lawyer for the Solicitor General, he became an expert at arguing tax cases before the Supreme Court, principally because no one else in the office wanted to handle them, and he became known as one of the great legal scholars in the tax field.
        When he left Washington to return to Harvard in 1934, Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, citing Mr. Griswold's ability to win tax judgments, declared that his departure would cost the Government a great deal of money.
        Invited in 1934 to teach at Harvard Law School as an assistant professor, he said he would try it out. A year later, he was made a full professor. In 1946 he became dean of the law school, a position he held until 1967. In that time he was a -- and many would say the -- dominant figure in American legal education.
        In his time as dean, he doubled the size of the faculty. He also oversaw the enrollment of the first female students in 1950 and lived to see one of the earliest, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, become a Supreme Court Justice.
        In honor of his contributions, in 1979 Harvard dedicated Griswold Hall, which houses the dean's office, faculty offices and a classroom.
        In the early 1950's, Mr. Griswold denounced Senator Joseph R. McCarthy in his book "The Fifth Amendment Today," which examined the constitutional protection against self-incrimination.
        The 1960 profile of Mr. Griswold in The Times said that "when Senator Joseph R. McCarthy was in full cry against the use of the Fifth Amendment by witnesses accused of Communist ties, one of the most forceful voices in defense of the constitutional privilege against self-incrimination was raised by Dean Erwin Nathaniel Griswold of the Harvard Law School."
        Later, Mr. Griswold served as an expert witness for Thurgood Marshall, who was then the legal director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, in several of the cases that the association brought to lay the foundation for the Supreme Court's desegregation order in Brown v. Board of Education. And he later served on the United States Civil Rights Commission under Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.
        In 1965, when public opinion was swinging against the Supreme Court for what some felt was coddling of criminals, Mr. Griswold made a speech titled "The Long View," which detailed how years of neglect and injustice in state courts had forced the Supreme Court to step in and make them improve their procedures.
        Two years later, Mr. Griswold retired as dean of Harvard Law to become Solicitor General under President Johnson, supporting the Great Society legislation. He continued to serve in that post under President Richard M. Nixon.
        During the Nixon years, in accordance with his position as Solicitor General, Mr. Griswold supported the Administration's more conservative positions. He argued, in one case, that the Supreme Court should block Dr. Benjamin Spock and three other minority party candidates from campaigning among soldiers stationed at Fort Dix, N.J. In another case, he argued that the armed forces were not practicing sex discrimination when they automatically discharged pregnant servicewomen.
        And in one of the most celebrated cases of the time, he supported the Administration's position that the courts should bar The Times and other newspapers from publishing the Pentagon Papers, a secret Department of Defense history of the Vietnam War. The Supreme Court eventually ruled that publication could not be enjoined.
        In 1989 Mr. Griswold wrote that he had "never seen any trace of a threat to the national security from the publication." With characteristic candor, he added, "There's a good deal of difference between foresight and hindsight, and as of that time (1971) I thought there was substantial risk" to the national security.
        As a private lawyer, after joining the firm of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue in Washington in 1973, Mr. Griswold continued arguing cases before the Supreme Court. He also served as president of the Association of American Law Schools from 1957 to 1958, and of the American Bar Foundation from 1971 to 1974.
        Mr. Griswold is survived by his wife, Harriet, whom he married in 1931; a brother, James of Exeter, N.H.; a sister, Hope Curfman of Denver; a daughter, Hope Murrow of Cambridge, Mass.; a son, William, of Belmont, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      