
        Jeffrey Land Carples, a government official in New York City whose 20-year career focused on homelessness and health care, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 44 and also lived in Philmont, N.Y.
        The cause was complications from AIDS, his companion, Richard Orient, said.
        Mr. Carples was Acting Commissioner of the Department of Homeless Services in the closing months of the administration of Mayor David N. Dinkins.
        More recently, he was vice president of the Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University and chief of staff to its president, Joseph A. Califano Jr.
        "Jeff came in and really provided the cement that was critical in molding it," Mr. Califano said. "He was very special in his capacity to get people to work together."
        Mr. Carples was born in West Hartford, Conn., and received a bachelor's degree in 1973 from the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton University. From 1974 to 1978, he worked in New York City government, in the Comptroller's office and the Mayor's Criminal Justice Coordinating Council.
        Mr. Carples was also active in gay politics. In the late 1970's, he was on the board of the National Gay Task Force and served as its finance chairman. He was also one of the founders in 1977 of the New York Political Action Council, a nonpartisan organization of gay men and lesbians.
        During the Carter Administration, from 1978 to 1981, Mr. Carples served in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare and in its renamed successor agency, the Department of Health and Human Services, in Washington.
        Returning to New York in 1981, Mr. Carples worked at the Health and Hospitals Corporation and Bellevue Hospital Center.
        In 1983, he was named a deputy commissioner of the New York State Department of Social Services in Albany, a post he held for seven years.
        Mr. Carples joined the Dinkins administration in 1990. He was an executive deputy commissioner in the Human Resources Administration, then chief of staff to Deputy Mayor Cesar A. Perales, who was responsible for health and human services.
        In 1992, with the shelter system overflowing, Judge Helen E. Freedman of State Supreme Court found New York City in contempt of court for its failure to house homeless families adequately. She ordered Mr. Carples and three other officials to spend a night in city offices where hundreds had been temporarily sheltered. That punishment, however, was later overturned in a ruling by the Court of Appeals.
        Besides Mr. Orient, Mr. Carples is survived by his mother, Florence Land Carples of West Hartford and Boca Raton, Fla., and two brothers, David, of Pittsburgh and Steven, of Winter Park, Fla.
      