
        William H. Johnson Jr., a founding member and former president of the Guardians Association of the New York Police Department, the organization of black New York City police officers, died on Nov. 22 at New York Hospital. Mr. Johnson, who lived in Harlem, was 76.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said Roger Abel, chairman of
        the Guardians Association.
        Mr. Johnson, who served 28 years as a New York City police officer, was a staunch civil-rights advocate who refused to allow his opposition to bigotry to stand in the way of his duty to uphold the law.
        "As Negroes, we and our families are inextricably bound in the civil rights movement, but as police officers we must uphold the law," he said in the 1960's, a time of great civil rights activity. "We insist that it be upheld impartially for everyone and without either favoritism or prejudice."
        In one of his major battles, Mr. Johnson opposed the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association and supported a 1966 proposal for a civilian-dominated police review board to investigate charges of police brutality.
        The Guardians, then numbering about 1,300 on a force of 28,000, were the only city police fraternal group to support the board, and they mounted an educational campaign among civic, church and community groups in support of it.
        When Mr. Johnson helped found the Guardians in 1949 "to promote brotherhood and help our membership become the best possible policemen," there were about 150 black police officers on a force of 15,000 to 18,000, Mr. Abel said. Today, the Guardians count about 11,000 officers and civilian members on a force of about 31,000.
        Mr. Johnson was given the title of association president emeritus on his retirement from the Police Department in 1969. He then became president of the Federation of Negro Civil Service Organizations until 1977.
        In 1971, at a seminar for black and Puerto Rican police officers, after recalling that "for 27 years I saw racist garbage on the police bulletin boards," he looked to the future.
        "What we must do now is to narrow the gap between the word and the deed," he said. "Whatever progressive pronouncements there are at headquarters, there is another, informal police department on the street.
        "The black officer is going on record in demanding the abolishment of that informal police department. What the black officers are saying is that they will be policemen, but they will not be mercenaries."
        Mr. Johnson, who was born and raised in Harlem, joined the police force on June 9, 1941, and spent much of his career with the Youth Division, working with gang members and truants. His early career was interrupted by Army service in World War II. He took pre-law courses at night and received a bachelor's degree from New York University in 1953.
        Mr. Johnson is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Battle.
      