
        Harold Krensky, a retired president and director of Federated Department Stores, the parent of Abraham & Straus and Bloomingdale's, died Sunday at Cabrini Hospital. He was 82 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        He had suffered a lengthy illness, according to an announcement from Federated headquarters in Cincinnati.
        Mr. Krensky retired in 1982 after 40 years with Federated, one of the country's largest department store chains. He started his career in Boston, where he was born, in 1942 as a merchandise manager at White's, which was then a subsidiary of Filene's.
        He transferred to Bloomingdale's in New York in 1947 and served in various positions before going back to Boston in 1960 as executive vice president of Filene's. He became the chain's chairman and chief executive three years later, but returned to Bloomingdale's in 1966 as its chairman and managing director.
        Federated made Mr. Krensky a group president of the parent company in 1969, vice chairman in 1971 and president in 1973. He retired from that post in 1980 but continued to serve two more years as chairman of Federated's executive committee. After that, he listed his profession as investor.
        When Bache Group Inc., a big player in the securities industry, entered retailing and named him to its board in 1979, he was asked whether he had any experience in the investment business.
        "Other than continually losing money in the equity markets," he replied, "no."
        At his death, he was a director of the Liberty Mutual Insurance Company.
        Active in community organizations, he also served as a trustee of Boston University, the City of Hope National Medical Center in Los Angeles, the Metropolitan Synagogue and the National Jewish Hospital, and as a director of the Fashion Institute of Technology.
        A law graduate of Boston University, he worked for Hearst Publications for seven years before changing to retailing.
        Mr. Krensky is survived by his wife of 58 years, Adele Falk Krensky; a daughter, Jane Krensky, and two grandchildren.
      