
        John Osborne, the playwright whose 1956 drama "Look Back in Anger" changed the course of British theater and earned him a reputation as one of the most forceful voices among a new generation of rebellious postwar dramatists, died on Saturday in a hospital in Shropshire, England. He was 65.
        Mr. Osborne had diabetes and had recently complained of being in poor health.
        "Look Back in Anger" helped change the face of the British stage in the 1950's. The wrathful monologues of Jimmy Porter, its disagreeable and self-centered antihero, soon came to be regarded as an embodiment of Mr. Osborne's own profound rage and disillusionment.
        When the play opened on Broadway in October 1957, with Kenneth Haigh, Mary Ure and Alan Bates in the leading roles, The New York Times critic Brooks Atkinson found the play flawed but praised Mr. Osborne as "a fiery writer with a sharp point of view and a sense of theater." He also noted that "the British drama has for once said a long farewell to the drawing room."
        Over four decades, critics ritually described Mr. Osborne as one of the angriest men in Britain, let alone the theater. Married five times, and with a reputation as a heavy drinker, he punctuated his life and career with frequent and highly public outbursts of wrath and vitriol aimed at a wide variety of targets, including newspaper columnists, other dramatists, homosexuals and even his mother and daughter.
        "Disappointment was oxygen to them," he wrote of his family in "A Better Class of Person," one of his memoirs. "The grudge that was their birthright they pursued with passionate despondency to the grave." To his mother, he wrote, "hospitality was as unknown as friendship."
        Only last year, Mr. Osborne was the object of fresh notoriety when he walked out of a ceremony after being presented with a lifetime achievement award by the Writer's Guild of Great Britain.
        In addition to "Look Back in Anger," which Mr. Osborne wrote in 17 days in a reporter's notebook, he wrote several other highly successful stage works in the 1960's and 70's, including "The Entertainer," "Luther," "Inadmissible Evidence" and "A Patriot for Me." He won a Tony Award in 1964 for "Luther."
        Mr. Osborne won an Oscar for best screenplay with the 1963 film "Tom Jones," and both "Look Back in Anger" and "The Entertainer" were also turned into films by Woodfall Film Productions Ltd., a company he formed with the director Tony Richardson. The films helped make Mr. Osborne wealthy. Richard Burton played the Jimmy Porter role in the first film, and Lawrence Olivier turned in a memorable film performance as Archie Rice, the down-and-out music hall entertainer.
        After a long period when he did not write for the stage, Mr. Osborne turned out his last play, "Dejavu" -- described as a sequel to "Look Back in Anger" -- which was performed in London in 1992. It attracted small audiences and closed after a short run.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Osborne emerged as an eloquent if often dyspeptic critic of modern British life. In 1961, in a letter to the left-wing weekly Tribune, he confessed what he called his "sincere and utter hatred" for England.
        "Damn you, England," he wrote. "You're rotting now, and quite soon you'll disappear."
        Mr. Osborne's first four marriages, to Pamela Lane, Mary Ure, Penelope Gilliatt and Jill Bennett, ended in divorce. Since 1986, he lived in a cottage in rural Shropshire with his fifth wife, Helen Dawson.
        He returned to the public eye in 1991, with the publication of the second part of his autobiography, "Almost a Gentleman," a companion to his earlier volume. Geoffrey Wheatcroft, a critic for The Daily Mail, described his memoirs today as "full of bile against those closest to him," recalling that he described his daughter, Nolan, by his third wife, Ms. Gilliatt, as "a very unpleasant girl" and referred to Ms. Bennett as "the most evil woman I've ever come across."
        John James Osborne was born on Dec. 12, 1929, the son of Thomas Osborne, a commercial artist, and Nellie Beatrice, whom he came to hate with a passion.
        The family moved 30 times in less than 20 years, and he left college while still a teen-ager to become an actor, in the provinces. He wrote his first play, "The Devil Inside," when he was 19, but it was not until "Look Back in Anger," which opened in London when he was 26, that he achieved success.
        Its performance at the Royal Court Theater in London on May 8, 1956, rocked British theater. It was regarded by many critics an eloquent if bitter testimony of the generation that had come of age since World War II and felt oppressed by the torpor of a country whose people, as Prime Minister Harold Macmillan remarked at the time, had never had it so good.
        Responding to a question by the critic Kenneth Tynan in The Observer in 1968, Mr. Osborne said: "I'm a patriot in the sense that my life only has meaning here, not somewhere else. This sort of spurious internationalism, where people respond to one another across nations and continents -- it seems to me very unreal. I don't know whether my focus is getting smaller or my England is getting smaller, but if it is I don't make any apologies. I think it's more real, and more human. This is why words are important. They may be dispensed with, but it seems to me that they're the last link with God."
        In a recent interview, Mr. Osborne acknowledged that his health was failing and said his wife had recently nursed him when he had slipped into comas, presumably as a result of his diabetes. But he added, "Who wants to live to 110 anyway if it means not smoking and drinking?"
        He is survived by his wife and daughter. Anger at Life And at England
        Most of John Osborne's writing crackled with his anger at life in general and life in his native England in particular. Here are some of his works.  PLAYS
        Look Back in Anger, 1956
        Epitaph for George Dillon, 1958
        The Entertainer, 1958
        The World of Paul Slickey, 1959
        Luther, 1961
        The Blood of the Bambergs, 1962
        Under Plain Cover, 1962
        Inadmissible Evidence, 1964
        A Patriot for Me, 1965
        Time Present, 1968
        The Hotel in Amsterdam, 1968
        Dejavu, 1992 FILMS
        The Entertainer, 1960
        Tom Jones, 1963
        Inadmissible Evidence, 1968 BOOKS
        A Better Class of Person, 1981
        Almost a Gentleman, 1991
        Damn You, England, 1994
      