
        Allie Reynolds, a pitcher Manager Casey Stengel once called "two ways great" because of his skills as a starter and a reliever for six New York Yankee World Series champions from 1947 through 1953, died yesterday in Oklahoma City. He was 79.
        The cause of death was complications of lymphoma and diabetes, a grandson, David Reynolds, said.
        His death followed the deaths in recent years of the Yankee pitchers Vic Raschi and Eddie Lopat who, with Reynolds, formed a starting corps that helped pitch the Yankees to a record five consecutive American League pennants and World Series titles from 1949 to '53.
        Reynolds carved out a niche for himself on those teams by pitching two no-hitters in one season, 1951, a feat only a handful of other major league pitchers have accomplished.
        He was a 20-game winner once in a 13-year career that saw him win 182 games, lose 107 and save 49. He also pitched 36 shutouts on the way to a career earned run average of 3.30.  Reynolds, a right-hander, twice led the league in strikeouts and once in e.r.a, a brilliant 2.06 in 1952, when his record was 20-8.
        But it was in the post-season that Reynolds's talents really came to the fore. He appeared in 15 World Series games for the Yankees, with a 7-2 record, four saves and a 2.79 e.r.a. Reynolds's Series highlight remains a two-hit, 1-0 victory over the Brooklyn Dodgers in the 1949 Series opener. But his legend was built after World Series calls to the bullpen.
        When the Yankees defeated the Dodgers in a seven-game Series in 1952, Reynolds won two games and lost one. The second victory came in relief in the seventh game at Ebbets Field. In six World Series relief appearances, Reynolds recorded either a victory or a save each time, including the clinching games in the 1950, '52 and '53.
        "Reynolds was two ways great, which is starting and relieving, which no one can do like him," Stengel once said. "He has guts and his courage is simply tremendous."
        Albert Pierce Reynolds, who became known as Super Chief, was born in Bethany, Okla., the son of a minister whose mother was a Creek Indian. He starred in baseball, football and track while attending the college now known as Oklahoma State, and he returned to Oklahoma, where he became a successful oil businessman, after retiring from baseball in 1954.
        At the time of his death, Reynolds was president of the National Hall of Fame for Famous American Indians in Anadarko, Okla.
        Reynolds reached the majors to stay with the Cleveland Indians in 1943 and was acquired by the Yankees after the 1946 season in a trade for the All-Star second baseman Joe Gordon in which Joe DiMaggio had some input.
        Cleveland, the story goes, wanted Gordon so badly that it offered the Yankees any pitcher but Bob Feller. When the Yankee executive Larry MacPhail consulted DiMaggio on the matter, he is said to have replied: "Take Reynolds. I'm a fastball hitter, but he can buzz his hard one by me any time he has a mind to."
        Reynolds was 19-8 with an American League-leading .704 winning percentage in his first season in New York. In 1950, he won 16 games despite pitching with bone chips in his elbow. The following season he was 17-8, but two of the victories were no-hitters: one was a 1-0 verdict over Feller and the Indians and the other was an 8-0 decision over the Boston Red Sox, in which Ted Williams made the final out on a pop foul after the catcher Yogi Berra's misplay of an earlier pitch on a foul pop had prolonged Williams's turn at bat.
        Reynolds always played down the significance of his double no-hit season, saying: "A no-hitter is not the best standard by which to judge a pitcher. That's just luck. I've pitched four games better than the no-hitters and lost three of them."
        Reynolds's career ended after the 1954 season because of a back injury he suffered when the Yankees' team bus crashed into an overpass in Philadelphia.
        Reynolds received a track scholarship to Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College, but carried only 140 pounds on a 5-foot-11 1/2-inch frame at the time and could not immediately make the college's baseball team. So to build up his body, Reynolds competed in the javelin and discus throws, and he eventually added 60 pounds.
        Although several of his former teammates -- DiMaggio, Yogi Berra, Whitey Ford, Mickey Mantle, Johnny Mize and Phil Rizzuto -- have been elected to the Hall of Fame, Reynolds never was.
        Reynolds also contributed to the game off the field. As the American League player representative, he was instrumental in negotiating an agreement with the owners that led to the major league players' pension fund.
        He is survived by a son, James D.; a daughter, Bobbye Kay Ferguson, 8 grandchildren and 10 great grandchildren.
      