
        Dr. Henry W. Ehrmann, an author, legal scholar and retired professor of law and political science, died on Sunday at the Green Hospital of the Scripps Clinic in La Jolla, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Hanover, N.H., and La Jolla.
        The cause was heart failure, said Dartmouth College, where he taught for many years.
        Dr. Ehrmann was the author of several books on French politics, business and labor. Among them was "Politics in France," written with Martin A. Schain, which is now in its fifth edition (HarperCollins College, 1991). It became the academic equivalent of a best seller.
        In another textbook, "Organized Business in France," he explored business methods that many American students find as puzzling as French politics. First issued in 1958, it remains in print, published by Greenwood Publishing.
        Dr. Ehrmann was born in Berlin, where he studied at the French Lycee, the prestigious school founded by French Huguenots. He earned a law degree at the University of Berlin and, in 1929, a doctorate in jurisprudence at the University of Freiburg, in the Black Forest in Germany.
        He was a legal scholar in Berlin when Hitler's secret police arrested him in the early 1930's. With the help of friends, he escaped to the Czech border and skied to freedom over the Sudeten Mountains. He was working as a journalist in France when it fell to the Germans in 1940.
        Like many refugees on the run from the Gestapo in France, Dr. Ehrmann found himself in the southern zone, which was not occupied by the Nazis. He was one of the first refugees to test an escape route across the Pyrenees into Spain. He met Claire Sachs, who had also fled from France, in Spain; they were married and moved later to the United States.
        He was among those featured in 1989 in "Exiles," a public television documentary that presented the flight of eminent academics and artists driven from Europe by the Nazi regime.
        Dr. Ehrmann initially taught at the "University in Exile," the New School for Social Research in New York, and he directed a re-education program for German prisoners-of-war before joining the faculty of the University of Colorado. He arrived at Dartmouth in 1961 and taught as the Joel Parker Professor of Law and Political Science until 1971. Until 1988, he lectured periodically at Dartmouth.
        Dr. Ehrmann also held visiting professorships at the universities of Paris, Bordeaux, Mannheim and Berlin, the Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton and the University of California at Berkeley and San Diego. He taught at the San Diego campus once a year until 1990.
        Dr. Ehrmann is survived by his wife; two sons, Michael M., of McLean, Va., and Paul L., of Santa Monica, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      