
        John H. Powell Jr., a former chairman of the Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, died on Dec. 19 in the Veterans Affairs Hospital in Oakland, Pa. He was 63 and lived in Churchill, Pa.
        The cause was a stroke, his family said.
        Mr. Powell was appointed chairman of the commission by President Richard M. Nixon in 1973 but was forced to resign 15 months later by President Gerald R. Ford. During his brief tenure, the commission became embroiled in conflicts over his power as chairman and was criticized for its growing backlog of unresolved cases.
        In a letter to President Ford, Mr. Powell said he was resigning as chairman "not because I agree with the intense criticism," but "in the hope that the current controversy will cease."
        The dispute over his chairmanship involved fellow commissioners who asserted that he had overstepped his powers. A month before his resignation, they voted to censure him for what they described as inefficient, often high-handed administration.
        Mr. Powell acknowledged he was sometimes "rough" with fellow commissioners but said he had to be tough and single-minded if the commission was to achieve its goals.
        Toward that end, he said, the commission had advanced a technical assistance program to help companies seeking to develop voluntary programs to end job discrimination. He also said it had sought satisfactory conciliation of discrimination charges brought against employers, unions and employment agencies in private and public sectors.
        Before retiring in 1992, he was an administrative law judge in the Pittsburgh office of the Social Security Administration for 11 years.
        Born in Mineola, L.I., Mr. Powell graduated from Howard University in 1953 and from the Harvard Law School in 1956. He received a masters degree in law in 1963 from the New York University Graduate School of Law.
        In 1975, Howard presented him with its Distinguished Alumni Award.
        Mr. Powell was an Assistant United States Attorney in Brooklyn and associate counsel to the Republican Assembly Speaker, Joseph F. Carlino, from 1962 to 1964. In 1970, after several years of corporate law practice in Manhattan, he became general counsel of the United States Commission on Civil Rights.
        Mr. Powell is survived by his wife, Adrienne; a daughter, Catherine, of Brooklyn; a son, John, a Navy lieutenant in San Diego; his mother, Fannie, of Great Neck, L.I.; and two brothers, William E. of Bay Shore, L.I., and Howard L., of Portsmouth, Va.
      