
        Melvin Lee Milligan 2d, a retired lawyer who collected and dealt in rare books, died on Wednesday at his home in New Milford, Conn. He was 71 and had lived in Greenwich until recently.
        The cause was complications from hemochromatosis, a blood disorder, his family said.
        Mr. Milligan joined Hilton International as assistant general counsel and retired in 1988 as general counsel and vice president. He previously worked as a lawyer for the Studebaker Corporation and then Trans World Airlines. Most recently, he was a partner in the Manhattan firm of Lyddle, O'Connor, Finkelstein & Robinson.
        Living abroad and traveling widely, he made himself an expert on the history and culture of the Middle East and European exploration of Africa, and he recently returned from a voyage to South Asia and Arabia. He was a Fellow of Britain's Royal Geographic Society and assembled a noted collection of the works of Sir Richard Burton, the English explorer and linguist.
        Born in Cleveland, he was studying at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology when World War II turned him into a weather officer in the Army Air Corps. After the war, he graduated from Harvard College and Harvard Law School and became associated with the Manhattan firm of White & Case. In the Korean War, he was a captain in the Judge Advocate's Corps.
        He moved from Studebaker to T.W.A. in 1963 and established the airline's first complete legal department. He also litigated the case that led Howard R. Hughes to divest himself voluntarily of his majority T.W.A. holding in 1966.
        Three years later, T.W.A. appointed Mr. Milligan its senior resident executive at Saudia, the Saudi Arabian national airline, with which it had a longstanding contract to help develop that carrier and its international routes. He subsequently worked in Cairo and later in Kuwait as legal adviser to a Kuwaiti investment group.
        Mr. Milligan is survived by his wife of 38 years, Elizabeth Engler Milligan; two sons, Melvin L. 3d, of Thousand Oaks, Calif., and Mark F., of Greenwich; three daughters, Louise Crandall of Manhattan, Meg Milligan of Auburn, Ala., and Mary Milligan of Greenwich; a brother, Frank, of New Milford, and eight grandchildren.
      