
        Nathan I. Daniel, the creator of Danelectro guitars and amplifiers, which offered a point of entry for a generation of would-be rock-and-roll musicians, died on Saturday at Queen's Medical Center in Honolulu. He was 82 and lived in Honolulu.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Howard.
        Most of Mr. Daniel's popular electric guitars and amplifiers were sold through Sears under the Silvertone brand name.
        He was born in New York City, the son of Jews who had fled Lithuania. After dropping out of City College during the Depression, he began assembling and selling amplifiers of his own design to the Epiphone Company. During World War II, he served as a civilian designer for the Army Signal Corps at Fort Monmouth, in New Jersey, where he developed a simple, inexpensive shield for motorcycle engines that prevented their electronic noise from interfering with radio communications on the battlefield.
        After the war, Mr. Daniel set up an amplifier manufacturing business, Daniel Electric, in Red Bank, N.J., and soon began selling his amplifiers to Montgomery Ward and Sears. In 1947, he brought out the first tremolo amplifier, and in 1950, he introduced a reverb device for guitar.
        In 1954, Mr. Daniel began making inexpensive, durable electric guitars, encasing the pickups in chrome lipstick covers that he bought from a cosmetics packing company, and facing the pine body of the instrument with tempered masonite. The original single cutaway model cost less than $40.
        Over the years, Mr. Daniel continued to experiment. He brought out a six-string electric bass guitar in 1956, and in 1958 he introduced the Longhorn, a guitar with two deep cutaways in the body, which made the frets more accessible. One of the company's biggest sellers was Amp-in-a-Case, a Silvertone guitar whose case contained an amplifier.
        At its peak, in 1964, Danelectro had 500 employees and annual sales of nearly $600 million. In 1966, Mr. Daniel sold the business to MCA but remained head of the company. In 1969, MCA closed the company down.
        In 1974, Mr. Daniel retired and moved to Honolulu, where he tried to come up with a solution to the lack of a ferry service between the Hawaiian Islands. In 1978, he designed a craft called the Superoutrigger; eight years later he launched a 58-foot demonstration model but he was not able to attract investors.
        Besides, his son, Howard, he is survived by his wife, Connie, and three grandchildren, all of Honolulu, and two sisters, Sally Rose of Valley Stream, L.I., and Ray Sobel of Levittown, L.I.
      