
        Jesse Philips, a leading Ohio industrialist and philanthropist, died on Tuesday in Salt Lake City. He was 80 and lived in Dayton, Ohio.
        The cause was a massive stroke, his family said. He had suffered a heart attack on skiing vacation in Utah and had undergone emergency heart surgery.
        Mr. Philips was both a retailer, as an owner of a Dayton department store, and a manufacturer who transformed a tiny window company into Philips Industries, an enterprise that was sold in 1990 for about $550 million to a British company.
        Mr. Philips's life followed the classic rags-to-riches plot. He was born in New York City in 1914 to poor Hungarian immigrants. He graduated from high school in Hartford and then went to Oberlin College in Ohio, which had offered him a scholarship and a job sweeping floors and washing dishes.
        "I arrived at Oberlin with $25 in my pocket and that was it," he told The Dayton Daily News in 1986.
        After graduating magna cum laude from Oberlin in 1937, Mr. Philips wanted to go to Harvard Law School until he learned that first-year students were not eligible for scholarships. He then set his sights on Harvard Business School, which did offer scholarships, and received his M.B.A. degree in 1939.
        After graduation, he worked for several retailers in the Midwest before joining the Johnson-Shelton Company Home Store, a Dayton retailer. In 1950, he became a partner in the business. Six years later, the store was sold and he retired.
        He was not idle for long. A year later Mr. Philips paid $200,000 for Jalousie Windows of Ohio, a manufacturer of windows and doors for mobile homes and recreational vehicles.
        For three decades, the company expanded its building materials business, largely through acquisitions. When it was sold in 1990 to Tomkins P.L.C. of Britain, Philips had plants in 23 states and Canada, employed nearly 6,000 people and had annual revenues of around $1 billion.
        In his later years, Mr. Philips gave millions of dollars to public and private schools and universities. He was a trustee of Oberlin for 21 years, and in the early 1970's, he donated $1 million toward the construction of a physical education complex that bears his name.
        Mr. Philips also established a $1 million scholarship fund for students in Dayton's public school system.  And in the early 1990's he gave $5 million to the University of Dayton toward the construction of the Jesse Philips Humanities Center. He was a member of the university's board of trustees for 18 years.
        In addition to his philanthropic pursuits, Mr. Philips served as a director of many Dayton organizations and businesses, including the Society Bank Corporation; the Dayton Council of the Salvation Army and the Jewish Community Council.
        An avid sportsman, Mr. Philips cultivated interests in skiing, yachting and horse racing.
        During World War II, he served as a private in the Army Air Force.
        Mr. Philips is survived by his wife, the former Caryl Dombrosky, whom he married in 1978; a son, Thomas E. Philips of Harrisburg, Pa.; a daughter, Ellen P. Schwarzman of New York City, and five grandchildren.
        Mr. Philips's prior marriage, to the former Carol Frank Levitan, ended in divorce in 1972.
      