
        Lionel Stander, whose gravelly voice and beetling brow made him a memorable presence on stage and screen and whose political beliefs in the era of the Hollywood blacklist earned him a long exile from American films, died on Wednesday at his home in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles. He was 86.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Alan Nierob, a family spokesman.
        Mr. Stander, who began his show business career at the age of 17, was working as recently as two weeks ago, when he appeared once again with Robert Wagner and Stefanie Powers as Max, the lovable father figure, confidant and chauffeur, in a two-hour "Hart to Hart" special for broadcast by NBC in February.
        Often cast as a seriocomic villain, Mr. Stander appeared in such films as Frank Capra's "Mr. Deeds Goes to Town," William Wellman's 1937 version of "A Star Is Born," Preston Sturges's "Unfaithfully Yours," Tony Richardson's "Loved One," Roman Polanski's "Cul-de-Sac," Martin Scorsese's "New York, New York" and Steven Spielberg's "1941."
        At one point, he said, he was the most highly paid character actor in the business, "playing the pal of the star." Among those stars were Harold Lloyd, Gary Cooper, Fredric March, Jean Arthur, Rudy Vallee, Rex Harrison, Danny Kaye, Henry Fonda and Robert De Niro.
        Away from the cameras, Mr. Stander played something of a starring role in the political history of Hollywood. Fiercely liberal, he made a memorable appearance in 1953 before the House Committee on Un-American Activities, which had been investigating Communism in Hollywood for years. While many witnesses saved their careers by informing on others, Mr. Stander lectured the committee on democracy and due process of law and refused to repeat under oath his former frequent denials that he had ever been a Communist.
        Mr. Stander had helped organize the Screen Actors Guild, raised money for the Spanish Loyalists and campaigned for the release of the Scottsboro Boys. Hollywood executives regarded him as a red. One day in August 1939, his agent, Abe Lastvogel, told him, "Don't worry, Lionel, it'll blow over."
        Mr. Stander said: "Abe was right. But it took 24 years. Between 1939 and 1963 -- when my friend Tony Richardson put me in 'The Loved One' -- I didn't work for a major studio, except when somebody with courage, like Preston Sturges, decided to use me."
        Looking back, he said: "I've always been lefter than the Left, and I worked very closely with the Communist Party during the 30's. But I never joined."
        Ostracized from Hollywood, Mr. Stander found work in the theater, on Wall Street and in comedies and spaghetti westerns in Italy, where, in his 60's, he became an unofficial mayor of the Via Veneto in Rome. In his brocade jackets and frilled shirts, the womanizing actor was derided in Italian newspapers as "the world's oldest hippie."
        Mr. Stander was born on Jan. 11, 1908, in the Bronx and said he got into show business when he went with an actor friend to a rehearsal and volunteered as an extra for a dice game.
        Although he said he attended everything from the Little Red Schoolhouse to military and prep schools, he said he never graduated from any. He made his professional stage debut in E. E. Cummings's "Him" and appeared in Provincetown Playhouse productions of O'Neill's "Glencairn Cycle" as well as plays by Shakespeare, Shaw and Chekhov.
        He said he was signed for movies by RKO as a Russian dialectician in the early 1930's after radio appearances with Fred Allen, Eddie Cantor and Al Jolson. It took a while, he maintained, before producers realized he was an English-speaking actor. During World War II, Mr. Stander served in the Army Air Forces.
        He was married six times and had five daughters.
        He is survived by his wife, Stephana, and his daughters.
      