
        Former Gov. George Bell Timmerman Jr. of South Carolina, one of the South's last segregationist politicians, died on Tuesday at Richland Memorial Hospital in Columbia, S.C. He was 82 and lived in Batesburg, S.C.
        He died of injuries suffered in an automobile accident on Sept. 4, a hospital spokesman said.
        Mr. Timmerman was Governor from 1955 to 1959 and Lieutenant Governor from 1947 to 1955. He presided at the Statehouse in a time of profound and painful social change after the Supreme Court's ruling in 1954 declaring segregated public schools unconstitutional.
        Mr. Timmerman fought the changes brought by the decision as a defender of what he called "the integrity of the races" and "our customs and institutions."
        He took office as the state's last segregationist Governor, urging Congress to limit the authority of the United States Supreme Court. He regarded Northern insistence on racial integration as hypocritical.
        He sought to thwart an order by the Interstate Commerce Commission for desegregation of long-distance travel in 1955, especially because it affected public waiting rooms. At the same time he opposed Federal court orders integrating public parks, bathing beaches and golf courses.
        One of the sorest issues was integration of public schools, which he and some other Southern governors vowed to thwart with Congressional or state legislation.
        He signed a law in 1956 to bar members of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People from public employment in South Carolina. He called civil rights laws enacted in the Eisenhower Administration "dastardly."
        At the 1956 Democratic National Convention he was a leader of Southern opposition to what he called "radical civil rights legislation and radical planks in the platform."
        He was born in Anderson, S.C., the son of a Federal judge, and graduated from The Citadel and the University of South Carolina Law School. He practiced in Lexington, S.C., and served in the Navy in World War II. He became a circuit judge in 1967 and continued to hear cases part-time until 1988.
        He is survived by his second wife, Ingrid. His first wife, of 45 years, Helen Miller DuPre, died in 1980.
      