
        Grand Ayatollah Ali Araki, who was considered to be the world's most eminent Shiite Muslim cleric, died Tuesday in Teheran, plunging the religious and political establishment into a debate over the choice of a successor.
        The holder of his title of supreme guide and Marjaa Taqlid, which means source of emulation, is in a position to challenge the Iranian Government on religious as well as policy matters.
        Ayatollah Araki was widely viewed among Shiites as the supreme authority on theological affairs only. He stayed out of politics, leaving that function to Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who holds the title of the supreme leader of the Iranian revolution and who served for eight years as President of Iran.
        Iranian Government radio said Ayatollah Araki "bade farewell to the living world after a long illness despite the efforts of doctors." He was admitted to the intensive care unit in Teheran Hospital three weeks ago.
        Ayatollah Araki's exact age is unknown but he was believed to be 106 years old. Teheran announced today that the nation would begin a weeklong period of mourning.
        The choice of a successor is complicated by the fact that some clerics eligible for consideration are in Iraq and Lebanon, and Iran believes that the central leadership in religious matters should remain in Qum, the Iranian religious city that is the home of several Shiite universities and institutes.
        A leader has traditionally been chosen by consensus among the learned of the Shiite religious establishment largely inside Iran but also in Iraq and Lebanon. Ayatollah Araki had held the position for only a year.
        Since the Iranian Islamic revolution led by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in 1979 overthrew the Persian monarchy, Iranian religious leaders have worked to galvanize Shiite communities, enhancing Iran's leading role in Shiism.
        Ayatollah Araki was the third successor to the title after Ayatollah Khomeini. While Ayatollah Khomeini combined his political role as the leader of the Iranian revolt with his theological prominence to exercise his influence among Shiites worldwide, his successors have not.
        Iran has been anxious about preserving both qualities in its supreme religious leader, but many of the senior Shiite figures in Iran, Iraq and Lebanon hold different political views from the militant clerics of Teheran.
        Some Shiite voices in Iraq and Lebanon have argued for some time for a return to the seperation of religion from politics practiced by most Shiite communities for much of this century. And Iran's inability to find a religious figure who possesses the charisma and appeal of Ayatollah Khomeini has diminished its theological domination of the Shiite branch of Islam.
        The responsibilities of grand ayatollahs include lecturing, conducting studies, writing and publishing essays and collecting a religious following, hence the reference to emulation in the titles of religious leaders.
        There are at least five grand ayatollahs in Qum who may qualify for the marjaa position and three in Iraq and Lebanon. But Iran has made it clear that it plans to select the successor and has already denounced any attempt to depoliticize the position.
        "We understand the clerics outside Iran believe religion should be separate from politics," said the speaker of Iran's Islamic Consultative Assembly, Ali Nateq Nuri, himself a militant cleric. But he added that "someone who believes in the separation of religion and politics is not fit to be a marjaa."
        Actually, tradition within the Shiite religious establishment has strongly favored the choice of a person who is extremely learned in theocracy with a record of scholarly achievement. Ayatollah Khomeini had published seven books and numerous essays on religion and society by the time he went into the politics of opposition.
        The approximately 100 million Shiites in the world make up 10 percent of all Muslims. Sixty million Shiites live in Iran, where they constitute the vast majority of the population. Ten million Shiites are in Iraq, where the cities of Najaf and Karbelaa house advanced centers of Shiite learning. Other concentrations of Shiites are spread over Pakistan, Lebanon and the Arab Gulf nations.
        Sunni Islam, the dominant branch of the religion which has a billion adherents around the world, is structured differently, allowing less room for distinction through scholarship and relying instead on a more rigid hierarchical order structured from top to bottom largely by a bureaucracy.
        The pressure on Shiite clergy to adopt a political profile is a relative novelty this century. It was introduced by Ayatollah Khomeini, who assembled both scholarly credentials and a revolutionary message.
      