
        Clement Biddle Wood Jr., a novelist who served for many years as an editor of the Paris Review, died yesterday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. He was 69 and had lived in nearby Water Mill since 1983.
        The cause was complications from colon cancer, said Clement Biddle Wood 3d, his son.
        Mr. Wood attended Harvard University, and as president of the Harvard Lampoon in 1948, he was one of the writers who helped shape the brand of irreverent humor that was to define the magazine for many years.
        Mr. Wood's first novel, "Welcome to the Club," published in 1966 by McGraw-Hill, was shaped by his experiences as a second lieutenant in World War II.
        The book, a darkly comic examination of racial prejudice and bureaucratic intransigence, tells of the visit of a black U.S.O. troupe to an Army base in Hiroshima, Japan, during the early days of the Allied occupation. It was described by a reviewer in The New York Times as "one of the funniest -- and most serious -- books of the year."
        Mr. Wood's second book, "Ocean Vu, Jog to Beach," was published in 1988 by St. Martin's Press.
        George Plimpton, the editor of the Paris Review, said Mr. Wood had served as a sort of international editor of the literary magazine.
        Mr. Wood was at work on a biography of Irwin Shaw, one of his literary influences, when he died.
        He is survived by his second wife, Jessie Leigh-Hunt Bruce and by four children from his first marriage: a daughter, Marion Covey, of Chicago; and three sons, Clement and Alexander, of Manhattan, and Willard of Seattle.
        He is also survived by four stepchildren, Cabell Bruce of Manhattan, Leigh Bruce of London, Thomas Bruce of Washington and James Bruce of San Diego, Calif.; his first wife, Jane Wood Harvey, of Grasse, France; a brother, William, of West Grove, Pa., and 11 grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 6, 1994, Tuesday
        An obituary in some copies yesterday about Clement Biddle Wood Jr., a novelist and former editor of The Paris Review, omitted a survivor. Mr. Wood, who died on Sunday, is also survived by a sister, Emily Wood, who lives in Philadelphia. The obituary, as corrected, is reprinted on page D22 today for readers who did not receive it.
      