
        Dr. David E. Rogers, a leading scientist and medical educator who was co-chairman of the National Commission on AIDS, died in New York City yesterday. He was 68 and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        Dr. Rogers died from colon cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, said a representative of the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, where he was professor of medicine.
        Though ill in recent months, Dr. Rogers worked up until his death. On Friday, he left the hospital for two hours to receive an award from the Visiting Nurse Service of New York for his national leadership role in fighting AIDS and other infectious diseases and for innovations in the way foundations made health grants. From 1972 until 1987, Dr. Rogers was the first head of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation in Princeton, then the largest philanthropy devoted to solving the health care problems of Americans.
        With characteristic bluntness and humor, in accepting the award at the Union League Club, Dr. Rogers called attention to one of his most notable traits -- being "a trouble maker."
        Dr. Thomas H. Meikle, the head of the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation in New York City and a former colleague of Dr. Rogers at Cornell, said that "his most important contribution was in being the articulate conscience of the profession over the last 30 years."
        As a strong advocate of the view that doctors have a responsibility to serve the community, Dr. Rogers did not hesitate to scold the medical profession when he thought it had lost sight of its basic principles, for instance in not taking a stronger lead in fighting AIDS. He was a strong advocate for the protection of confidentiality of people with AIDS.
        The New York State Health Commissioner, Mark R. Chassin, said that Dr. Rogers' work "contributed significantly to New York's leadership in developing model AIDS policies and programs."
        Dr. William Schaffner, a professor at Vanderbilt Medical School, said of Dr. Rogers, his former teacher: "He was forthright and passionate in his advocacy of his principles, often discomforting his audience, and he felt that one had to irritate complacent people in positions of authority as a challenge to the way they executed their office, whatever it was."
        His friends and colleagues agreed that Dr. Rogers's major contribution at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation was giving it organization and momentum.
        As head of the $1.2 billion foundation, Dr. Rogers was credited for developing the most systematic evaluation of projects of any foundation, bringing new standards of accountability and evaluation to his programs. "He saw philanthropy as a public trust that should be held to the highest standards," Dr. Stephen Schroeder, the foundation's current head, said.
        Major projects focused on improving the delivery of health care, particularly to the poor and the underserved and to racial minority groups. Efforts also were directed at the health needs of infants, the elderly, the homeless and the mentally ill.
        By starting a clinical scholar program that supported research into how patients fared from what medicine did or did not do for them, Dr. Rogers helped introduced the study of health care delivery into academic medicine. "That was a field people gave speeches about, but the idea that it was a legitimate area of inquiry was not seen as a responsibility of academic medicine," said Dr. Robert Blendon of Harvard University.
        In shaping his foundation's work, Dr. Rogers developed a system of outside consultants. But ultimately the independent system contributed to the personality clashes and other frictions that led him to leave the foundation in 1986, 15 years after joining it.
        In 1987, Dr. Rogers returned to Cornell-New York Hospital, this time to a chair endowed in memory of his mentor, Dr. Walsh McDermott, financed by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.
        David Elliott Rogers was born in New York City on March 17, 1926. His father, Carl R. Rogers, was a psychologist and author.
        Dr. Rogers attended Ohio State University, where his father taught. He graduated from Miami University of Ohio and received his medical degree from Cornell University. After an internship and residency at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, he returned to Cornell, where he specialized in infectious diseases.
        In 1959, at 33, he became head of medicine and physician in chief at Vanderbilt University in Nashville.  At that time, he was the youngest doctor to hold such positions at any American medical school. His research focused on the common (infections caused by staphylococcal bacteria) and the unusual (outbreaks of botulism).
        He embraced the Federal Medicare and Medicaid programs at a time when many doctors opposed them.
        In 1968, he left Vanderbilt to become dean of Johns Hopkins Medical School, where he played a major role in changing the delivery of medical care by teaching institutions by developing health maintenance organizations.
        "His commitment to breaking down the racial barriers was in everything he did," Dr. Blendon said. "Every place he went, it was characteristic by the time he was through, the institution had changed" in terms of hiring and promoting blacks and in other ways.
        Dr. Rogers was widely admired for encouraging students and junior faculty members to strive for high ideals. At the same time, he was a leading critic of medical education, decrying the decline of teaching as the primary mission of medical schools and the lack of personal contact between student and faculty.
        He was also honored many times as a humane physician who, in teaching students and doing research, did not overlook the needs of the patient. In 1986, when he became a patient, he described the experience of suffering a heart attack.
        The pain "was an absolutely, monstrously awful sensation" that lasted two hours and that was untouched by large amounts of morphine, Dr. Rogers wrote in an article for Pharos, which is published by Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society. "That the morphine gave me so little relief," he added, "has made me emphathize deeply with the hundreds of patients with the same disease whom I have treated with this drug over the years."
        Dr. Rogers then described the sudden relief that resulted when he received a then relatively new procedure (angioplasty) and drug (streptokinase) for heart attacks. Doctors injected streptokinase, an enzyme produced by steptococcal bacteria, that Dr. Rogers had used in treating patients with infectious diseases.
        Dr. Rogers was an accomplished wood sculptor and his works were often exhibited.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Louise Lehan, and three children, Gregory Rogers of Turners Falls, Mass.; Dr. Anne Rogers of Richmond, Calif., and Julia Rogers of Philadelphia. His first wife, the former Cora Jane Baxter, died in 1971.
      