
        Gian Maria Volonte, whose chiseled features and militant leftist politics left their mark on European theater, film and television, died today while on location in Greece. He was 61 and lived in Velletri, outside Rome.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Volonte was perhaps most widely known for his tough-guy roles, especially in the popular Italian westerns of the 1960's. Under the pseudonym John Wells, he appeared as the violent Ramon in Sergio Leone's 1964 film "A Fistful of Dollars" and also acted in a 1965 sequel, "For a Few Dollars More." In the 1970 thriller "Investigation of a Citizen Above Suspicion," he played a police inspector who kills his mistress and then implicates himself in the crime."Investigation" won an Oscar as best foreign film.
        Mr. Volonte, who was born in Milan, began acting at 17 with traveling theater groups. On television in the 1950's he appeared in adaptations of Dostoyevski's "Idiot," Chekhov's "Uncle Vanya" and Vittorio Alfieri's "Saul."
        His most acclaimed appearance in film came in 1983 in the Swiss director Claude Goretta's "Death of Mario Ricci." His performance as a television journalist who explores the hypocrisy and xenophobia of Swiss village life won him the Golden Palm at the Cannes International Film Festival. He also played the Italian-born anarchist Nicola Sacco in "Sacco and Vanzetti," the 1971 film by Giuliano Montaldo; the title role in "Lucky Luciano," a 1974 work about the crime kingpin; the Italian anti-Fascist writer Carlo Levi in "Christ Stopped at Eboli" (1979), and a courageous Sicilian judge in Fascist Italy in Gianni Amelio's 1990 "Open Doors," which was chosen best European film of the year at Cannes.
        Mr. Volonte made no bones about his militant leftist political leanings. During labor unrest in Italy in 1971, he was arrested along with workers who were striking for higher wages and better working conditions. Many of his most noted film roles were inspired by political events or judicial cases in Italy and elsewhere.
        In 1986, he took the role of the Italian Christian Democratic leader Aldo Moro, whose kidnapping and murder in 1978 at the hands of Red Brigade terrorists had shaken Italian society. He had earlier worked in France on Yves Boisset's 1972 film "The French Conspiracy," in which the Central Intelligence Agency is accused of having orchestrated the assassination of the Algerian leader Ben Barka.
        Some of his films aroused controversy and criticism, among them the 1976 "Todo Modo," Elio Petri's bitter satire of political life based on a novel by the Sicilian author Leonardo Sciascia.
        In 1991, the Venice Film Festival awarded Mr. Volonte its Golden Lion in recognition of his life's work in film.
        He is survived by his daughter, Giovanna, and his companion, Angelica Ippolito.
      