
        Irving Kenneth Zola, a sociologist at Brandeis University who studied and championed the disabled, died on Dec. 1. He was 59 and lived in Newton, Mass.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his brother, Michael. He died as he was being taken by ambulance from his home to a hospital after suffering chest pains.
        At the time of his death, Dr. Zola was the Mortimer Gryzmish Professor of Human Relations at Brandeis and president of the Eastern Sociological Society. He had taught at the Brandeis campus in Waltham, Mass., since 1963, and formerly headed its sociology department.
        Professor Zola was stricken by polio when he was 16, and used canes and braces to help him walk. His disabilities were increased by injuries suffered in an automobile accident when he was 19.
        Discussing ways to enhance the self-esteem of the disabled, Professor Zola said in 1988, "Until we own our disability as an important part, though not necessarily all, of our identity, any attempt to create a meaningful pride, social movement or culture is doomed."
        His writings included an autobiography, "Missing Pieces: A Chronicle of Living with a Disability," published in 1982. He edited "Ordinary Lives: Voices of Disability and Disease," a 1982 anthology that was praised as a diverse collection of fictional and personal accounts.
        He was a founding member and counselor at the Boston Self Help Center, an advocacy and counseling organization for people with chronic diseases and disabilities. He served as the center's executive director from 1982 to 1987.
        He was also chairman of the medical sociology section of the American Sociological Association, a consultant to the World Health Organization and a member of President Clinton's transition team on health care. He won numerous awards, and was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        He was born in Boston, graduated from Boston Latin School and received a B.A. from Harvard in 1956 and a Ph.D. from Harvard in 1962.
        His marriage to Leonora Katz in 1957 ended in divorce in 1973.
        Besides his brother, of Sharon, Mass., Professor Zola is survived by his wife, Judy Norsigian; a son, Warren Keith Zola of Newton; two daughters, Amanda Beth Mosola of Bloemfontein, South Africa, and Kyra Zola Norsigian of Newton, and a grandson.
      