
        Winslow Carlton, an investment fund executive who was long active with the Henry Street Settlement and who helped build the Northeast's first nonprofit medical-surgical insurance organization, died on Tuesday at his home in Woods Hole, Mass. A former resident of the East Side of Manhattan, he was 86.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        At his death, Mr. Carlton was a general partner in A. W. Jones Company, a Manhattan investment fund that was one of the nation's earliest hedge funds, private pools of capital run by money managers serving wealthy individuals. He joined it at its inception 45 years ago and, with Alfred Winslow Jones, was considered a creator of the technique of hedging. . Hedge funds are best known for their ability to sell stocks short in a bet that prices will decline. They also buy stocks whose prices they expect to rise.
        Mr. Carlton graduated from Harvard College in 1929. He studied two years at the Columbia University School of Business, and later signed on with the Federal Emergency Relief Administration, a New Deal agency that sent him to direct its Self-Help Cooperative Service in California. In 1935, he married Margaret Gillies, the service's national director.
        His experience also led to a position as executive director of the fledgling Group Health Inc., the medical insurer, in 1938. For the first few years, he was its sole employee, working without pay. In 1945, he became chairman of the board. He retired in 1967.
        He also was interested in cooperative housing and neighborhood social services, holding office in national groups concerned with poverty.
        He became involved with the Henry Street Settlement House, one of the city's foremost neighborhood service organizations, in 1931. He was president from 1953 to 1965 and chairman until 1972. He became a director in 1945 and remained on the board until 1978.
        Mr. Carlton also helped to organize Mobilization for Youth, a social experiment begun in 1963 with Federal, city and Ford Foundation support to counter juvenile delinquency. It was operated by the Lower East Side Neighborhoods Association.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Mary G. Swope of Washington, Ann W. Carlton of New York, and Rhona Carlton-Foss of Weston, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      