
        Antonio Carlos Jobim, the Brazilian composer, songwriter and musician whose hits "The Girl From Ipanema" and "Desafinado" touched off the bossa-nova craze of the 1960's and inspired many American jazz artists, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 67.
        The cause was heart failure, said Leeza Peltz, a hospital spokeswoman.
        Mr. Jobim (pronounced zho-BEEN), who had homes in New York City and Rio de Janiero, entered the hospital on Monday for treatment of blocked arteries, said Brigida Barros, an official at the Brazilian consulate in New York.
        Brazil's Minister of Culture, Luiz Roberto do Nascimento e Silva, said Mr. Jobim "was a musician who universalized our music" and called his death "an irreparable loss."
        Athough he was known primarily for "The Girl from Ipanema" and "Desafinado," Mr. Jobim, by his own estimate, wrote some 400 songs, including "One Note Samba," "How Insensitive," "Wave," "Quiet Nights of Quiet Stars," "Meditation," "No More Blues" and "Dindi."
        Mr. Jobim, who was inducted into the Songwriters' Hall of Fame in New York in 1991, also played piano and sang. He performed on Frank Sinatra's recent recording "Duets."
        Widely praised as one of the great pop composers of his time, he employed unusual harmonies. "I was a beach boy, and I believe I learned my songs from the birds of the Brazilian forest," he told The Associated Press in a 1991 interview.
        Mr. Jobim was born in 1927 in Rio de Janeiro and grew up nearby in Ipanema. He played the guitar and piano as a child and at 14 began studying under the 12-tone composer Hans Joachim Koellrutter. He worked briefly for an architect in the 1940's, but after hearing Duke Ellington and other American bandleaders perform in Rio, he decided to become a musician, performing in the small, crowded Rio clubs known as "inferninhos," or "little infernos."
        The trumpeter Bill Horne described Mr. Jobim's samba style at the time as quite distinctive, "soft and sophisticated, in much the same way an American pop tune sounds with a subdued modern jazz treatment."
        By the late 40's Mr. Jobim was performing his own compositions, and in the early 50's he found work as an arranger for a large Brazilian recording company.
        With the guitarist and composer Luis Bonfa, he wrote the samba-influenced score for the French-Brazilian film "Black Orpheus," which retold the Orpheus myth in the setting of Brazil's Carnaval. The movie was a worldwide hit and won an Academy Award for best foreign film in 1959.
        Mr. Jobim, who had become the music director for Odeon records, began collaborating with Joao Gilberto, who was mixing samba and jazz in what came to be known as the bossa nova. Their first single was "Chega de Saudade," or "No More Blues," which became a jazz standard.
        Bossa nova was a quiet revolution in Brazilian music. Built on the samba, it transferred the rhythms and messages of public celebrations to an intimate scale. Syncopated guitar chords replaced much of the percussion; melodies and harmonies echoed the twists of cool jazz, and lyrics were sly and elliptical, often sung in a whisper. Mr. Jobim's songs, written with such lyricists as Newton Mendonca and Vinicius de Moraes, set a sophisticated standard for bossa-nova craftsmanship, influencing songwriters around the world.
        The bossa nova, and Mr. Jobim's music, won an even wider audience when the saxophonist Stan Getz and the guitarist Charlie Byrd recorded the album "Jazz Samba" on the Verve label in 1962. The album, which included "Desafinado" and "Meditation," reached the top of the pop charts. Mr. Jobim made his United States debut with Mr. Gilberto, Getz and Mr. Byrd at Carnegie Hall in 1962.
        Further acclaim came with the 1964 album "Getz/Gilberto," which included "The Girl from Ipanema." Mr. Jobim played piano on some songs.
        Mr. Jobim recorded several solo albums, including "Wave and Tide" (1967), "Stone Flower" (1970), "Urubu" (1975) and "Terra Brasilis" (1980), as well as scores for for films, notably "Bahia" (with Walter Queiroiz). With the renewal of interest in Brazilian music in the mid-1980's, Mr. Jobim began performing again. In April he appeared at Carnegie Hall in a program celebrating the 50th anniversary of Verve records.
        He is survived by his wife; their son and daughter; a son and daughter from a previous marriage, and a sister, Helena.
      