
        William P. Luce, a former news editor of The New York Times, died Friday night at Baptist Medical Center in Jacksonville, Fla., where he was vacationing. He was 70 and lived in Englewood, N.J.
        The cause was an aneurysm, his family said.
        A shirt-sleeve editor with a zest for life, Mr. Luce was an old-fashioned newspaperman who turned his skills to shaping local, national and cultural coverage at The Times, rising to the position of news editor, in which he supervised the editing of the newspaper.
        He was born in Philadelphia and served in the Navy for three years during World War II, a quartermaster in the Pacific until he was sent to Colgate University in Hamilton, N.Y., for officer training. After the war, he remained at Colgate, graduating in 1947 with a taste for newspapering honed on college publications.
        Mr. Luce began his career as a reporter for The Binghamton Press in upstate New York, then joined United Press, the news service. He worked for United Press in Albany for three years, then in New York for five more, eventually heading the main desk, with responsibility for fast-breaking news reports from throughout the world.
        He joined The Times in 1955 as a copy editor on the metropolitan desk. With his drooping walrus mustache, comfortable paunch and sharp, barking laugh, he became a key figure in the workings of the newsroom. He was an assistant editor on the metropolitan and national desks, and cultural news editor from 1974 to 1976. He was named an assistant news editor in 1980 and the news editor in 1987.
        Among the major events for which Mr. Luce was responsible for directing coverage was the assassination of Malcolm X on Feb. 21, 1965. As the weekend city editor on what had started as a slow Sunday, he sent reporters scrambling to Harlem and around the city when the fiery black leader, who had recently split with Elijah Muhammad and the Nation of Islam, was gunned down during a weekly Black Muslim rally.
        In his younger days, Mr. Luce was a part of the New York bohemian circle of artists and writers that included Jack Kerouac, Allen Ginsberg and Peter Orlovsky, and he would sometimes regale colleagues with tales of those times. He frequently contributed pieces to The Times on cultural subjects, travel and the outdoors. He retired in 1989.
        He is survived by his wife, Carolyn.
      