
        Kenneth Rush, who as a United States Ambassador helped negotiate the ground-breaking four-power agreement in 1971 that ended the post-war crises over Berlin, died on Sunday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 84.
        A son said he had been under treatment for heart and blood ailments.
        The Quadripartite Berlin Agreement, between the United States, Britain, the Soviet Union and France, ended more than two decades of East-West tensions over the divided former capital of Germany. It improved ties between Washington and Moscow, reaffirmed the Western Allies' rights in the city and paved the way for the development of peaceful relations between East and West Germany. Mr. Rush, who was Ambassador to West Germany at the time, was credited by all sides with having played a major role in the successful conclusion of the agreement after 17 months of negotiations.
        Mr. Rush had come to Government from industry only two years earlier, having been appointed to the Bonn embassy by President Nixon in his first month in office. Three months later, Mr. Nixon flew to Berlin to make a speech saying that it was time for the Soviet Union and the Western powers to negotiate their differences in Europe, specifically in Berlin. He already had Mr. Rush in mind to take on that task.
        The two became acquainted in 1936 at Duke University Law School, where Mr. Rush had just joined the faculty as an assistant professor and Mr. Nixon had just enrolled as a student. It was the beginning of an enduring friendship. A year later the young professor accepted an offer to join the Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation with the prospect of an executive position. He became a vice president in 1939 and was named president in 1966.
        Years later, when critics suggested that he lacked the experience to be a diplomat, Mr. Rush would reply with a genial smile, "I managed to become president of Union Carbide and I hadn't studied any chemistry either."
        In fact, he had long been active in the Foreign Policy Association, of which was a director, and the Council on Foreign Relations.
        Mr. Nixon turned to Ambassador Rush again early in 1972 and appointed him Deputy Secretary of Defense under Melvin R. Laird. But Mr. Rush stayed only until the end of the year, when the President moved him over to foreign policy again, as Deputy Secretary of State. For a time between the departure of Secretary of State William P. Rogers and the arrival of Henry A. Kissinger, Mr. Rush served as acting Secretary of State.
        As the Watergate storm gathered strength, President Nixon asked his old friend in May 1974 to come to the White House to take the post of Counselor for Economic Policy.
        Before leaving the State Department, Mr. Rush had to receive a high-level delegation from Poland and a friend observed, "I guess you have seen the Poles."
        "Yes," Mr. Rush shot back, his mind on already on Watergate, the White House and Mr. Nixon's plummeting public opinion ratings, "and 40 percent undecided about the President isn't bad at all."
        He remained unwaveringly at Mr. Nixon's side to the end on Aug. 9, 1974, when the President resigned as a result of the Watergate scandal.
        One month later, his newly inducted successor, Gerald R. Ford, appointed Mr. Rush ambassador to France, a post he held until 1977.
        He was born David Kenneth Rush on Jan. 17, 1910, in Walla Walla, Wash., where his parents, from an old Tennessee family, had journeyed during a yearlong tour of the western United States. His father was a farmer in Greenville, Tenn., and his mother a teacher. His father died when he was 2.
        After attending secondary schools in Greenville, Mr. Rush worked his way through the University of Tennessee by waiting on tables. A history major, he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
        He enrolled in Yale Law School, where he edited the law journal and earned an LL.B. degree in 1931. After working briefly for the Manhattan law firm of Chadbourne, Stanchfield & Levy, he was hired in early 1936 as a lawyer by Union Carbide in New York. That led to his rehiring after a year at Duke University.
        Six feet tall and silver haired, Kenneth Rush had a courtly manner and a gentle sense of humor. But he was, as associates said, capable of forceful action if the situation demanded it.
        He is survived by his wife of 47 years, the former Jane Gilbert Smith; three sons, Malcolm, John Randall and Kenneth; a daughter, Mrs. Cynthia Monahan; a sister, Lanthe Rush Campbell, and 11 grandchildren. Two other sons, George and David, died earlier.
      