
        Yao Yilin, a conservative central planner who served as a member of the Communist Party's Politburo from 1985 to 1992, died on Sunday. He was 77.
        A member of the hard-line faction often opposed to the scale and pace of reform in the 1980's, Mr. Yao was among the five members of the Standing Committee of the Politburo that sanctioned the military crackdown on the Tiananmen Square uprising of 1989.
        Never a favorite of Deng Xiaoping, China's paramount leader, Mr. Yao's presence in the inner circle of power stemmed from his association with Chen Yun. Mr. Chen, age 89, is the most senior of the conservative Communist Party elders who have striven to maintain a role for central planning and orthodox Marxist values during Mr. Deng's era of reform.
        Six years ago, during the heady months of pro-democracy ferment in China, Mr. Yao sided with Prime Minister Li Peng to discredit the economic policies of former Prime Minister Zhao Ziyang and condemn him for indulging the pro-democracy movement.
        Mr. Yao's death was announced at midafternoon today in a four-line dispatch from the New China News Agency. An official obituary calling him an "outstanding proletarian revolutionary and eminent economic planner" was later issued by the Communist Party Central Committee.
        A career state planner, Mr. Yao's ascent to the Standing Committee of the Politburo was part of the political horse-trading undertaken by Mr. Deng to force the retirement of some of the aging party stalwarts blocking his policies. Mr. Yao's role was, in effect, to represent the interests of the retiring conservatives.
        His own retirement at age 75 during the 14th Party Congress of October 1992 was the result of Mr. Deng's further purging of conservatives who had resisted his exhortations for faster-paced reforms.
        Born in 1917 in Guichi County in the central province of Anhui, Mr. Yao studied chemistry at Qinghua University in Beijing, where he led demonstrations against the Nationalist Government of Chiang Kai-shek.
        After the Communist victory in 1949, Mr. Yao was soon a ranking party bureaucrat serving in financial, trade and state planning agencies. In 1960 he became Minister of Commerce.
        In the tumultuous years of China's Cultural Revolution, which began in 1966, Mr. Yao along with thousands of other party apparatchiks fell victim to the political struggles and persecution loosed by Mao Zedong. But reportedly under the protection of Prime Minister Zhou Enlai, he was spared serious harm.
        After his political rehabilitation in 1973, he regained his financial, trade and Minister of Commerce posts and was appointed Deputy Prime Minister in 1978.
        As Mr. Deng consolidated his power, Mr. Yao was appointed director of the powerful State Planning Commission in 1980. He became an alternate member of the Politburo in 1982 and in 1985 a full member.
      