
        Carl Marzani, a former employee of the Office of Strategic Services and the State Department imprisoned after being convicted of hiding his Communist Party affiliation from Government loyalty examiners, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son Anthony.
        Mr. Marzani worked for the O.S.S. and the State Department during World War II. He was convicted in Federal District Court in Washington in 1947. In instructing the jury, Judge Richmond B. Keech said: "This court is not concerned with Communist vices. The issue is whether the defendant knowingly, willfully and feloniously made false statements to Government loyalty examiners."
        Mr. Marzani was charged with lying about his Communist Party membership to keep his State Department job. The Government also contended that he had been a Communist organizer in New York.
        During the trial, he denied that he had ever been a Communist Party member. Afterward, he called the trial "a travesty."
        The case went to the Supreme Court twice. The court's deliberations ended both times, in 1948 and 1949, in tie votes by the Justices, with one abstaining. That left the conviction standing, and Mr. Marzani spent more than two years in prison.
        On Monday, Anthony Marzani said his father had resigned from the Communist Party in 1941, after having been a member for two years.
        Over the years, Carl Marzani was an economics instructor, film director and book-club co-owner. His writings include three volumes of memoirs in print from Topical Books in Manhattan. Two more volumes are to come out.
        Born in Italy, Mr. Marzani graduated from high school in Scranton, Pa., and studied at Williams College and Oxford University.
        His 1937 marriage to Edith Eisner ended in divorce.
        In addition to his son Anthony, of Manhattan, he is survived by his second wife, Charlotte Pomerantz, whom he married in 1966; another son, Daniel, of Manhattan; two daughters, Judith Cutler and Gabrielle Marzani, both of Manhattan; a sister, Marcella Cullington of Perry, Ga., and two grandchildren.
      