
        Richard Patrick Critchfield, an author and journalist who lived and worked among villagers of the third world to tell their story to Western readers, died on Saturday at George Washington Hospital in Washington. He was 63 and lived in Berkeley, Calif.
        He suffered a stroke the week before in Washington, where he had gone to attend a publication party for his latest book, "Villagers," said his agent in New York, Stuart Krichevsky.
        During his career, Mr. Critchfield spent long periods working and living with the peasants of Asia, Africa and Latin America about whom he wrote.
        For many years he reported on rural development for The Economist, and he also contributed op-ed articles and book reviews to The New York Times, The Washington Post and The Asian Wall Street Journal, among others.
        Born in Minneapolis, he graduated from the University of Washington and earned a master's degree at Columbia University.
        Over the years, Mr. Critchfield reported for various publications on Asia, Washington, the White House, the China-India conflict of 1962, the Vietnam War and the India-Pakistan war of 1965. In 1981, he received a MacArthur Fellowship, totaling $244,000, which he used to continue studying cultural change in the rural third world.
        His books included "The Long Charade: Political Subversion in the Vietnam War" (Harcourt, 1968); "The Golden Bowl Be Broken: Peasant Life in Four Cultures" (Indiana University Press, 1974); "Shahhat: An Egyptian" (Syracuse University Press, 1978), and "Villages" (Doubleday, 1980). "Villagers: Changed Values, Altered Lives: The Closing of the Urban-Rural Gap" was published by Doubleday last month.
        In a different vein, "Those Days: An America Album" (Doubleday, 1984) was a family memoir that covered, as a reviewer wrote, "an amazing chunk of American history." Another work, "An American Looks at Britain" (Doubleday, 1990), argued that Britain's ruling class had lost faith in just about everything between the world wars but refused to move over and let others govern.
        Mr. Critchfield is survived by a brother, James of Delaplane, Va., and a sister, Margaret N. Moffett of Berkeley.
      