
        Gen. Stanislaw Maczek, a Polish combat commander in World War II, died on Sunday at his home in Edinburgh. He was 102.
        He enlisted in the Polish Army in 1918 and by 1939 was a major general. In September of that year, the forces of Hitler's Third Reich invaded Poland. The Polish Army held out for six weeks and then went down to defeat.
        But General Maczek succeeded in leading the battered troops of his 10th Cavalry (Mechanized) Brigade to safety in Hungary and then to Romania. He then made his way to France and, before the fall of that country to the Germans, was evacuated to Britain.
        With scattered remnants of Polish units he formed the First Armored Division of the Polish Army in Exile in February 1942 at a base in Duns, Scotland. With the invasion of Normandy in June 1944, General Maczek entered the war again, assigned to the front around Falaise in northwestern France.
        The First Armored Division played a crucial part in routing the Wehrmacht's Seventh Army at Falaise in a breakthrough that historians say shortened the war by many months. The First Armored went on to liberate cities in Belgium and the Netherlands and took Wilhelms haven, the German port city on the North Sea.
        At the end of the war, the newly established Communist Government in Warsaw accused General Maczek of "treachery" and stripped him of Polish citizenship. He never returned to Polish soil and settled in Edinburgh, where he worked for a time in the 1960's as a bartender in a hotel. He explained that no government had offered him a pension.
        But in 1989, the last Communist Government of Prime Minister Mieczyslaw Rakowski issued a public apology to the general and invited him to visit Poland. He declined, pleading that he and his wife were in poor health. Early this year he was presented with Poland's highest state decoration, the Order of the White Eagle.
        Burial is to be in Breda, a Dutch city liberated by General Maczek's troops and the site of a large Polish military cemetery.
      