
        Glenn M. Anderson, a California politician who rose to the office of lieutenant governor and then served for a quarter-century in Congress, died on Tuesday at the Peninsula Hospital Pavilion in Los Angeles. He was 81 and lived in the nearby town of Hawthorne.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Anderson, associated with the liberal wing of his state's often quarreling Democratic Party, was Lieutenant Governor -- and, in the absence of Gov. Edmund G. Brown, serving as Acting Governor -- when rioting erupted in the Watts section of Los Angeles in 1965. He was later criticized by a state investigative committee for his delay in calling out the National Guard to quell the unrest.
        Elected to Congress in 1968, he ultimately became chairman of the potent House Public Works and Transportation Committee. He remained in the House until 1992, retiring after his Democratic colleagues denied him re-election to the committee chairmanship in 1990.
        That 152-to-100 vote against him reflected a belief among younger members that he had not been an effective chairman. But his home district, in the South Bay-Long Beach area, never forgot his funneling of Federal money into the fledgling Los Angeles subway system, the Century Freeway and the dredging of Los Angeles Harbor. In tribute, the freeway and the harbor's ship channel now bear his name.
        Mr. Anderson was born in Hawthorne, where he became a builder, a City Councilman, the Mayor, a longtime member of the Democratic State Committee and, for a time, the party's state chairman.
        In 1958, he was elected Lieutenant Governor, a post in which he was nearing the end of his second term when racial rioting broke out in the predominantly black Watts section in August 1965. As Governor Brown hurried home from a vacation in Greece, Mr. Anderson ordered a curfew in the area and sent in thousands of National Guardsmen to help the police.
        But he drew criticism for having waited five hours before responding to the Police Chief's request. An investigative committee appointed by Governor Brown later concluded that the unrest could be attributed largely to racial injustice. It also concluded, however, that Mr. Anderson had hesitated "when he should have acted." The riots caused 34 deaths, injuries to 1,032 people and property damage of $40 million.
        A year later Mr. Anderson was denied election to a third term as Lieutenant Governor, a casualty of a Republican landslide paced by Ronald Reagan's victory in the race for governor. And two years after that, he began his long career in Congress.
        Mr. Anderson was a 1936 graduate of the University of California at Los Angeles and served as an infantry lieutenant in World War II.
        He is survived by his wife, Lee Dutton Anderson; a daughter, Melinda A. Keenan of Lancaster, Calif.; a son, Glenn, of Sedro-Woolley, Wash., and a stepson, Evan A. Braude of Los Angeles.
      