
        Terrence D. Clancy, a wine industry executive and vice chairman of the Wine Alliance in Healdsburg, Calif., died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 60.
        The cause was heart disease, his family said.
        One of a handful of industry leaders who brought sophisticated marketing techniques to the wine business, Mr. Clancy was until 1992 president and chief executive of the Wine Alliance, and president of its four companies: Clos du Bois Wines, Callaway Vineyard and Winery, Atlas Peak Vineyards and the William Hill Winery.
        Mr. Clancy focused on building brand names rather than elegant wineries, and Clos du Bois became a nationally known premium brand while being produced in a nondescript warehouse in Geyserville, Calif. But within the industry, he was also known as a raconteur, seemingly happier discussing literature, art or philosophy than the arcana of wine production.
        Mr. Clancy began his career as a salesman for the E.& J. Gallo Winery of Modesto, Calif., and rose to be assistant to the vice president of sales. After leaving Gallo, he joined the Peace Corps, and was director of its program in Palau, in the Caroline Islands, from 1966 to 1968. Returning to the wine industry, from 1968 to 1976 he served as vice president of marketing for Seagram Wines in San Francisco, a subsidiary of the Canadian spirits manufacturer whose labels included Paul Masson.
        In 1981, Mr. Clancy became president of Callaway, in Temecula, Calif., after Hiram Walker and Company acquired the winery as a way to enter the premium wine business. Walker was acquired by Allied Lyons P.L.C., of England, which in turn acquired Clos du Bois in 1988 for about $40 million, naming Mr. Clancy president. The Wine Alliance was formed in 1989.
        In 1990, Mr. Clancy was among a group of owners and managers of small wineries who successfully confronted Gallo and other giants to eliminate the California Wine Commission, a state-administered body that taxed wine makers and funneled money to the Wine Institute, a lobbying group. The small wineries had protested that they were taxed at a higher rate than the large wine makers and that the disproportionate influence of a few huge producers in the institute did not serve the interests of the smaller members.
        Mr. Clancy was a member of the board of Sonoma Cutrer, as well as Odwalla Inc., a fresh juice company based in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was also a member of the executive committee of the Wine Institute.
        Born in Los Angeles, Mr. Clancy graduated from Occidental College in 1957 with a bachelor of arts in political science. He received a masters degree in English literature from San Francisco State University in 1969.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Maureen Murphy, a psychologist, of San Francisco.
      