
        Harold O. Zimman of Marblehead, Mass., a publisher who became a behind-the-scenes leader in the American Olympic movement, died Wednesday night at the Beverly (Mass.) Hospital. He was 78.
        The cause of death was heart failure, his son Joshua said. He had suffered from acute heart problems for several years, and they prevented him from attending the 1992 Olympic Games in Barcelona, Spain, only the second Olympics he had missed since 1952.
        "He was an important man in the Olympic movement," said Juan Antonio Samaranch of Spain, the president of the International Olympic Committee. Mr. Samaranch was in Atlanta presiding over I.O.C. meetings.
        Last year, Mr. Samaranch presented Mr. Zimman with the Olympic Order for meritorious service to the Olympic movement. Only 28 Americans have ever received that award, and most were high-profile people like the track and field athletes Jesse Owens and Al Oerter, and the Olympic film maker, Bud Greenspan.
        "Harold was a true amateur sportsman," Mr. Greenspan said. "He loved the Olympics and gave them almost undivided attention. Nobody gave more and received so little recognition."
        Since 1972, Mr. Zimman served on the board of directors of the United States Olympic Committee. For years, he headed the public relations committees of the U.S.O.C. and the United States Tennis Association.
        He was a source of reason in the U.S.O.C., for many years a conservative organization that allowed little input from athletes or the federations that governed the individual sports. After the 1972 Olympics, he was one of the U.S.O.C.'s few progressives who saw the need for dialogue with athletes, and he helped implement the change that revolutionized the organization.
        "When you talk about giving back and serving and the volunteer mentality, he was the embodiment of all that," said Dr. LeRoy Walker, the president of the U.S.O.C.
        Mr. Zimman was a large, baldish man known throughout the world, especially in Israel. He was a founder of the World Maccabiah Games, an Olympic-type competition for Jewish athletes, and a founder of the United States Committee, Sports for Israel.
        "He was very human, very approachable," said Bud Collins, the tennis commentator and sports columnist for The Boston Globe, who was a close friend of Mr. Zimman's. "In tennis, he would take some president by the elbow and have a heart to heart with him, always offering a voice of reason. He really had the good of the game, whatever the game, at heart."
        Charles Foster, the U.S.O.C. secretary, said:
        "In many ways, he was the conscience of the Olympic committee. He always raised important questions about the direction of the Olympic movement. If he thought we were off the path, he got us back on."
        Mr. Zimman grew up in Lynn, Mass. He was an offensive lineman and captain of the Tufts University football team in 1937 and was graduated in 1938. He later became a member of the Tufts board of trustees, and in 1987 the university named its football field in his honor.
        His first experience as a publisher came when Lynn Classical High School, his alma mater, needed someone to put out its football game programs. For almost a half-century, he and his wife, Helen, published The Olympian, the U.S.O.C.'s magazine; the U.S.T.A.'s yearbook and tournament programs; the quarterly Volleyball USA, and Harvard football programs.
        He met Baaron Pittenger 40 years ago when Mr. Pittenger, later the U.S.O.C.'s executive director, was the sports information director at Harvard and Mr. Zimman started publishing Harvard's football programs.
        Mr. Zimman is survived by his wife; two daughters, Judith Armell of Brookline, Mass., and Roberta Liebmann of Essex Junction, Vt.; two sons, David of Fairfax, Calif., and Joshua of Boston, and three grandchildren.
      