
        Prof. Arthur Bestor, a constitutional historian and a frequent commentator on the separation of powers, died on Tuesday at his home in Seattle. He was 86.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        He was a professor emeritus of history at the University of Washington, where he taught from 1962 until his retirement in 1976. His historical studies of the constitutional provisions for making war and peace, of the roles of the Presidency in defining foreign relations and the impeachment process were widely read in the 1970's and 1980's.
        Professor Bestor testified before Congressional committees on the intent of the framers of the Constitution regarding the role of the Senate in the making of treaties. And he was one of the first constitutional scholars to call publicly for the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon. He did so with an open letter to Mr. Nixon that was published in The New Republic in May 1973.
        Professor Bestor was also known as a gadfly of American education. One of his points was that educational "frills" were getting in the way of sound academic teaching, with the result that students had to be taught in college what they should have learned in high school.
        Arthur Eugene Bestor Jr. was born in Chautauqua, N.Y., where his father was president of the Chautauqua Institution, an ecumenical retreat in western New York that is known for its concerts and lectures.  He graduated in 1930 from Yale University, where he earned a doctorate in 1938.
        He also taught at Yale, Columbia University Teachers College and the University of Illinois. He lectured at the University of Tokyo and as the Harmworth Professor of American History at Oxford University.
        He took an interest in and wrote about what he called communitarian societies. The term referred to 19th-century experiments like the Oneida community and the Owenites of Indiana, as well as the alternative communities of the rebellious 1960's and 1970's.
        Professor Bestor is survived by his wife of 45 years, Dorothy Koch Bestor; three sons, William P., of Portland, Ore., Thomas W., of Palmerston North, New Zealand, and Theodore C., of Ithaca, N.Y.; a brother, Charles L., of Amherst, Mass.; six grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
        Correction:  December 20, 1994, Tuesday
        An obituary on Saturday about Prof. Arthur Bestor, a constitutional historian, omitted a survivor. Professor Bestor, who died last Tuesday, is also survived by a sister, Mary Frances Cram of Advance, N.C.
      