
        Samuel Lipman, a pianist and critic who was the publisher of The New Criterion, a conservative journal of the arts, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was leukemia, said his wife, Jeaneane.
        In 1982, Mr. Lipman became the publisher of The New Criterion. Previously, he had been known chiefly as a concert pianist and the music critic of Commentary, but he soon became a leader in the neo-conservative movement, writing and lecturing on political and cultural subjects.
        Four years ago, as the moderator of a symposium on the role of intellectuals in public life, Mr. Lipman deplored the disappearance of intellectuals from government and its sidelines. "One would have to go back to the 1920's, to the Coolidge and Harding administrations," he said, "to find a time when intellectuals were as absent from public life as they are today."
        Mr. Lipman was no stranger to the workings of government. He was regularly in touch with members of the Reagan and Bush administrations, members of Congress and insiders in the Washington bureaucracy.
        He was prominent in the creation of the 1980 Heritage Foundation report that criticized the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities, saying it supported "pseudo art" and "pseudo scholarship" for political purposes, thereby reducing art and scholarship to "mere entertainment." But he did not go along with many fellow conservatives who sought to abolish the two endowments.
        Serving from 1982 to 1988 on the National Council on the Arts, the body appointed by the President that advises the chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, Mr. Lipman became one of its more outspoken members. Jacob Neusner, another neo-conservative member of the council at that time, recently recalled a council meeting at which Mr. Lipman stood alone in opposing the establishment of grants for solo theater performance artists. Such grants later became a lightning rod for criticism of the Federal agency.
        In 1988, Mr. Lipman played a major role in preparing "Toward Civilization," a 183-page report by the arts endowment that sought to shift the emphasis of arts education in the United States away from the so-called touchy-feely school to such conservative orthodoxy as "cultural literacy," "hard work and discipline" and, above all, "knowledge and understanding."
        In a series of cogent and contentious essays, he often took unfashionable positions, like arguing the distinction between high and low culture, opposing multiculturalism and upholding traditional values.
        Mr. Lipman was born in San Jose, Calif. He made his first public appearance as a pianist when he was 8. He went on to attend the Pierre Monteux summer music school in Maine and to study harmony and counterpoint with the composer Darius Milhaud. After his Town Hall debut in 1955, he was hailed by a critic for The New York Times as "one of the most promising pianists of the season."
        In 1983, he gave the first New York performance of Hugo Weisgall's Sonata for Piano at Carnegie Recital Hall.
        After he was appointed music critic of Commentary in 1975, Mr. Lipman concentrated on music criticism and Government arts policy, putting aside his career on the concert stage. He published four books of essays: "Music After Modernism" (Basic Books, 1979), "The House of Music: Art in an Era of Institutions" (David R. Godine, 1984), "Arguing for Music, Arguing for Culture" (Godine, 1990) and "Music and More: Essays, 1975-1991" (Northwestern University Press, 1992). This year, he edited and contributed an essay to a new edition of Matthew Arnold's "Culture and Anarchy" (Yale University Press).
        From 1985 to the onset of his illness in 1993, he was the artistic director of the Waterloo Music Festival and School in Stanhope, N.J.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Edward, a student at Oxford University in England.
      