
        Edward John DeBartolo, a real estate developer who helped create the suburban shopping mall and used his success to invest in horse racing and professional sports teams, including the San Francisco 49ers, died yesterday at his home in Youngstown, Ohio. He was 85.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, according to a statement released yesterday by the Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation.
        Mr. DeBartolo, who said often in his career that "I would like to know that what I am doing could go on endlessly," built his first shopping mall in 1948 in Youngstown, and went on to build more than 200 others in 20 states. His company was ranked as the fourth-largest owner of shopping and retail space in the nation last year.
        Besides real estate, Mr. DeBartolo and his family bought the San Francisco 49ers football team and the Pittsburgh Penguins hockey team. He also owned three horse racing tracks -- Louisiana Downs, in Bossier City, Remington Park in Oklahoma City and Thistledown in Cleveland. He recently began developing riverboat gaming casinos, and opened the Isle of Capri Casino in Bossier City in May.
        His net worth was recently estimated by Forbes magazine to be about $850 million, a figure that his company would not confirm.
        Mr. DeBartolo was born Anthony Paonessa in Youngstown, the son of Italian immigrants, and began working early in construction, writing bids for various construction projects at age 13 for his stepfather's company. While in high school, he assumed the name of his stepfather, Michael DeBartolo, as a tribute to him and after his own father had died.
        While studying civil engineering at the University of Notre Dame, Mr. DeBartolo also worked at night as a concrete foreman on projects around South Bend, Ind. He returned to his hometown, and after five years working for his stepfather, he started his own company in 1937, building single-family residences.
        After Army service in Korea and in World War II, in which was a second lieutenant in the Army Corps of Engineers, he founded the Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation.
        To take advantage of the growth of the suburbs after World War II, he built shopping plazas and malls in the 1940's, 50's and 60's. He was often quoted saying that his early strategy for building real estate was, "Stay out in the country. That's the new downtown."
        "He helped change the way America shops," said a statement yesterday from the International Council of Shopping Centers.
        In the late 1960's, his company diversified office towers, industrial parks, hotels and condominiums.
        As an example of his business sense, Mr. DeBartolo spotted opportunity in Oklahoma in 1982 after the state passed legislation permitting parimutuel wagering. He bought property in Oklahoma City for a future race track, and market studies later confirmed his intuition by showing that Oklahoma residents dined out frequently and often visited Las Vegas, Nev., two facts that suggested its residents had disposable income and that they liked to bet.
        Mr. DeBartolo also involved himself in many details of his construction projects, wanting to approve the colors of seats and the grandstand at Remington Park in Oklahoma City, for example.
        But in the 1980's, an extended slump in the real estate business left Mr. DeBartolo's company struggling with $4 billion in debt, and cut into his personal fortune that had times risen above $2 billion, by some estimates. As a result of negotiations with bankers, he sold the Pittsburgh Penguins hockey team.
        Mr. D, as he was known to his staff, typically started his 13-hour day at 5:30 A.M. and worked seven days a week, a schedule he maintained as recently as last month. Asked to explain his reluctance to cut back his schedule, he once said, "I can't understand this business of retirement."
        Mr. DeBartolo donated $33 million to the University of Notre Dame, which was used to built the DeBartolo Quadrangle at the University that includes the Edward J. DeBartolo Classroom Building. It was dedicated in October 1992.
        His wife, Marie, died on Aug. 23, 1987.
        He is survived a son, Edward J. Jr.; a daughter, Marie Denise DeBartolo York; three sisters, one brother, and seven grandchildren. All live in Youngstown.
      