
        Peter Hebblethwaite, a British scholar, Vatican watcher and papal biographer, died on Sunday in Oxford. He was 64.
        The cause was not disclosed.
        Mr. Hebblethwaite, a trained theologian and former Jesuit priest, had a reputation as dean of "Vaticanologists" in the English-speaking world. Since 1979, the Oxford scholar was also the European and Vatican affairs correspondent of the National Catholic Register, the leading Catholic weekly in the United States.
        He gained high esteem as an author whose style was calm, scholarly and even witty. His final book, "The Next Pope," is an informative account of the mystery-shrouded process by which the cardinals select a new Pope; it is due out next year.
        His "Pope John XXIII: Shepherd of the Modern World" (Doubleday, 1985) sought to explain how a septuagenarian chosen as a transitional Pope started a revolution with Vatican Council II. The book tried to demythologize the legends surrounding Pope John and to portray his failings as well as his virtues.
        "Paul VI: The First Modern Pope" (Paulist Press, 1993) was his long-awaited life of a leader struggling toward reform while hoping to maintain the traditional structure of the church. "The Year of Three Popes" (Collins, 1979) recalled the stunning events of 1978 when Paul VI died, as did John Paul I after only 34 days in office, to be succeeded by John Paul II.
        Mr. Hebblethwaite thought little of John Paul II, and did not conceal his hope that his successor would reverse what he considered the Vatican's reactionary attitudes, particularly in regards to women.
        He was born in Manchester, trained for the priesthood in England and France and was ordained in 1948. While in France, he became an admirer of the novelist Georges Bernanos, the subject of his first biography in 1965.
        He attended the final sessions of Vatican Council II in the heady days of the reformist 1960's as a theological adviser. After the council closed in 1965, he was named editor of The Month, a Jesuit current-affairs magazine, which he headed for eight years. But when he found that the promises of liberalization had stalled, he quit the priesthood in 1974 and married.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret I.M. Speaight, an author; and two sons and a daughter.
        Correction:  December 31, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary on Dec. 20 about Peter Hebblethwaite, a British Vatican scholar, papal biographer and former priest, misidentified the American publication to which he contributed. It was the National Catholic Reporter, not the National Catholic Register. The obituary also misstated the date of his ordination. He was ordained in 1963, though he joined the Jesuit novitiate in 1948.
      