
        William Walton, who as chairman of the Federal arts commission presided over the construction and restoration of several of the best-known monuments in Washington, died in his sleep and was found on Sunday at his loft in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. He was 84.
        Although the cause of death was not immediately known, Mr. Walton had suffered a heart attack in 1993, his family said.
        A journalist, painter and close friend of President John F. Kennedy, Mr. Walton had a diverse career that reached its zenith from 1963 to 1971, when he was chairman of the Fine Arts Commission, which oversees public monuments and new construction on Federal land in the District of Columbia.
        He defeated efforts to demolish the West Front of the Capitol, oversaw construction of the Washington subway and presided over the restoration of Lafayette Square and much of Pennsylvania Avenue.
        Mr. Walton, the son of a newspaper publisher, was born in Jacksonville, Ill. After graduating from the University of Wisconsin, he began a career as a correspondent for The Associated Press and Time magazine. In World War II, while working for Time, he was among a handful of correspondents who parachuted into Normandy at the start of the invasion on June 6, 1944.
        After the war, he worked as a correspondent in Washington for Time, but resigned in 1949 to devote himself full time to painting. He produced large abstract expressionist works, some of which found their way into the Phillips Collection, the Cocoran Gallery of Art and important private collections.
        In the 1950's he and Kennedy, then a United States Senator from Massachusetts, became friends. Two years after Kennedy became President, he appointed Mr. Walton to head the Fine Arts Commission.
        Mr. Walton was reappointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson. He resigned in 1971 to resume his career as a painter, and moved to New York City in 1975, where he continued painting until his death.
        His marriage to the former Emily Ann Lillie ended in divorce in 1948.  He is survived by a son, Matthew, and a daughter, Frances Beuhler, both of Woods Hole, Mass.; two sisters, Helen Hackett and Ruth Marsh, both of Jacksonville, five grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      