
        Dr. Walter Houston Clark, a retired professor of the psychology of religion at Andover Newton Theological School in Massachusetts and a former dean at Hartford Seminary, died on Thursday at his home in Cape Elizabeth, Me. He was 92.
        Dr. Clark taught at Andover Newton in Newton Centre near Boston from 1962 until his retirement in 1969. Before that, starting in 1951, he was dean of the School of Religious Education at the seminary.
        He explored the importance that mystical experience can have in religion, which led to an association with Dr. Timothy Leary and others who advocated the use of hallucinogens to expand their consciousness. In the early 1960's, Dr. Clark took part in religious ceremonies in which peyote, mescaline and similar hallucinogens were taken.
        He spoke out for people arrested for using LSD and other hallucinogenic substances for what they said were solely religious purposes.
        He was born in Westfield, N.J., graduated from Williams College in 1928 and received a doctorate in psychology and education from Harvard University in 1944. In 1926 he was one of four founders of the now-defunct Lenox School in Lenox, Mass., which was formed as an alternative to the more expensive Episcopal boys' schools in the area.
        Dr. Clark taught at Lenox for 19 years, and subsequently was on the faculty of Bowdoin College and Middlebury College until his appointment as dean in Hartford.
        While still studying at Williams College, he found a lifelong interest in understanding the significance of religious experience as distinct from belief. It began when he attended a revival meeting led by Frank N. D. Buchman, the American evangelist and founder of an international movement variously called the First Century Christian Fellowship, the Oxford Group, Moral Re-Armament and Buchmanism.
        It was an evangelism of personal and national spiritual reconstruction, or as Mr. Buchman put it, "world changing through life changing." Dr. Clark wrote about it in his "The Oxford Group: Its History and Significance" (Bookman Associates, 1951).
        He also wrote a textbook, "The Psychology of Religion" (Macmillan, 1958). Another book published about 1970, "Chemical Ecstasy," sought to define the parameters of the use of hallucinogens in religion.
        Dr. Clark is survived by two sons, Walter Jr., of Hancock, N.H., and Jonathan, of Brookline, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      