
        Sir Evelyn Shuckburgh, a retired British diplomat, died on Dec. 12. He was 85 and lived in Watlington, Oxfordshire.
        He retired in 1969 as Ambassador to Italy. But his influence was at its peak in the 1950's. He was the principal Middle East expert in the Foreign Office and, from 1951 to 1954, the private secretary of Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden.
        He raised some eyebrows in Britain with the publication of a memoir, "Descent to Suez (1951-56)." Critics accused him of betraying confidences, but the book was praised as a valid account of how the Foreign Office worked just before the ill-starred British, French and Israeli attack on Egypt in 1956.
        He came from an aristocratic, landed family: the Shucksburghs were listed in the Domesday Book, the 11th-century census ordered by William the Conqueror.
        Charles Arthur Evelyn Shuckburgh was born in London and educated at King's College, Cambridge. He entered the diplomatic service in 1933 and had his first foreign posting in Cairo at a time when the British Ambassador treated Egypt as if it were still ruled from London.
        In World War II he was in Ottawa, concerned with the transport of Canadian troops to Britain, and then in neutral Buenos Aires, gathering intelligence. Sent to Prague, he witnessed the demise of democracy and the Communist takeover.
        Back in London he joined the mainstream of foreign policy as head of the department dealing with Western Europe in 1949 when attention turned to the Western alliance. Working in Middle Eastern affairs in the 1950, he became involved in a vain attempt to secure an Arab-Israeli settlement, but the effort was overtaken by events and by what he felt was Israel's unwillingness to compromise.
        At the time of the Berlin crisis of 1961-62, he was Deputy Under Secretary responsible for NATO and Western Europe and head of the policy planning staff for Berlin and Germany. Before his posting to Rome in 1966 he served as Britain's representative to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
        In retirement, he spent an active 10 years as chairman of the British Red Cross Society. He also translated and edited "The Memoirs of Madame Roland: A Heroine of the French Revolution" (Moyer Bell, 1990).
        He is survived by his wife of 57 years, the former Nancy Brett, daughter of the Viscount of Esher; two sons, and a daughter.
      