
        Daniel I. Arnon, who added significantly to the understanding of plant photosynthesis, died on Tuesday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 84 and lived in nearby Kensington.
        The cause was complications after cardiac arrest, said the University of California at Berkeley, where Dr. Arnon retired in 1978 as professor of cell physiology.
        In 1973 Dr. Arnon won the National Medal of Science for "his fundamental research into the mechanism of green plant utilization of light to produce chemical energy and oxygen and for contributions to our understanding of plant nutrition."
        A major contribution was his role in explaining the synthesis of adenosine triphosphate, or ATP, the "energy messenger" within living cells. In photosynthesis, such synthesis consists of using light energy to hitch an additional phosphate group (formed of phosphorus, hydrogen and oxygen) to adenosine diphosphate to form energy-rich ATP. The process is a key element of photosynthesis, upon which most life on earth is directly or indirectly dependent.
        In 1954 he and his colleagues were able for the first time to perform this process in the laboratory, rather than in living tissue. Dr. Melvin Calvin, a Berkeley colleague, who won a Nobel Prize in 1961 for his own pioneering research into photosynthesis, said Dr. Arnon made a "significant contribution" to deciphering its complex chemistry.
        Daniel Israel Arnon was born in Warsaw in 1910. He read the works of Jack London and decided on a career in California agriculture. As a teen-ager, he came to New York and was accepted by the University of California.
        His undergraduate and graduate education were at that university, where in 1936 he obtained his doctorate in plant physiology. His earliest research focused on plant nutrition, such as testing the relative efficiency of raising plants in soil, rather than afloat in nutrient-rich water.
        From 1943 to 1946, as a major in the United States Army, he used his expertise to feed troops stationed on barren Ponape Island in the western Pacific by growing crops in gravel and nutrient-rich water.
        His work on photosynthesis began in the late 1940's and focused on chloroplasts, the structures within cells that perform this function. He and his colleagues were able to extract chloroplasts from spinach and study their function in the laboratory.
        From 1952 to 1953 he was president of the American Society of Plant Physiologists. He also won awards in Belgium, Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Sweden, as well as the United States.
        In 1940 he married Lucile Soule, who died in 1986.
        He is survived by two sons, Dr. Stephen Arnon of Orinda, Calif., and Dr. Dennis Arnon of San Francisco; three daughters, Anne A. Hodge of Arrowgate, England, Dr. Ruth Hanham of Lancaster, England, and Nancy A. Agnew of Los Angeles, and eight grandchildren.
      