
        Herve Alphand, France's Ambassador to the United States during the Kennedy Administration and a close aide to de Gaulle, died Thursday in Paris. He was 86.
        His family announced his death today. He was buried on Saturday.
        Mr. Alphand, who was born into a diplomatic family in Paris, studied law before joining the Finance Ministry. He worked briefly as a commercial attache in Moscow and rose to senior posts in the Ministry of Commerce.
        When World War II broke out, Mr. Alphand was in Washington as an economics attache at the French Embassy. He resigned in 1941 to join de Gaulle's Government in exile in London as director of economic affairs. This was the beginning of a long association with de Gaulle that made Mr. Alphand one of the most sensitive and faithful articulators of the twists and turns of postwar Gaullist policy. Postwar Reconstruction
        After the liberation of Paris and de Gaulle's triumphant return as Provisional President, Mr. Alphand became director of economic affairs at the Foreign Ministry and took part in the major conferences on security and economic reconstruction in Europe.
        A talkative and indefatigable man with a gift for mimicry, Mr. Alphand became an ambassador in 1950, representing France for four years at the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and, from 1955 to 1956, at the United Nations. He was then appointed Ambassador to the United States and served there until 1965.
        With de Gaulle's return to power in 1958, in the middle of the eight-year war for independence in Algeria, Mr. Alphand's role in Washington became more delicate. After Algeria became independent in 1962, much of de Gaulle's international policy focused on restoring France to its former world stature and insuring parity with the United States in NATO and elsewhere.
        The pursuit of this policy, culiminating in 1966 with de Gaulle's decision to withdraw French troops from NATO and to close NATO bases in France, led to intermittent tensions with Washington. But Mr. Alphand was a skilled diplomat, adept at navigating the perennially choppy waters of relations between France and the United States.
        Indeed, during the Kennedy years, he and his wife, Nicole, turned their embassy into a center of Washington social life, holding lavish receptions for the Kennedys. Nicole Alphand died in 1979.
        Mr. Alphand, who was a member of the Legion of Honor, returned to Paris in 1965 to become secretary general at the Foreign Ministry, a post he held until he retired in 1972. He later wrote his memoirs, "The Astonishment of Being," which were published in 1977.
      