
        Lou Bunin, a pioneering puppeteer and film maker who worked in New York and Paris for many years, died on Thursday at the Actor's Fund Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 89.
        The cause was a stroke, said Amy Kaiman, his daughter.
        Mr. Bunin was an inventor of motion picture techniques used in animated puppet productions for children. He also made political animations for adults that were presented at the 1939-40 World's Fair in New York, and produced television commercials and educational films for children.
        Perhaps his most famous work was the live-action and animated puppet film of "Alice in Wonderland," which was released in 1951 and rereleased in New York in 1985.
        The film used animated sculptures less than seven inches high, which were sized on film to suit the live-action Alice, played by Carol Marsh, a British actress. It also featured a brief prologue about the life of Lewis Carroll and some of the historical personalities behind the characters in the story.
        Mr. Bunin's production, with angular puppets, stop-action filming and other camera tricks, is regarded by film historians as an early special effects classic. The film received wide critical acclaim but was overshadowed by the release of another "Alice in Wonderland," by Walt Disney, at the same time.
        Mr. Bunin also made an anti-Fascist animation with puppets that satirized Hitler and Mussolini, and in later years worked on animated prologues for Hollywood films. The Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan has several of Mr. Bunin's puppets on display.
        John Canemaker, of the New York University-Tisch School of the Arts, described Mr. Bunin as the "doyen of American puppeteers and film animators, who also broke new ground with the first animated television commercials."
        He is survived by two brothers, Ben, of Hollywood, Fla., and Morey, of Woodstock, N.J.; a sister, Mae Simkin of Chicago, and three daughters, Margaret Schnur of Phoenix, Ariz., Zena Bunin of Manhattan and Mrs. Kaiman, of Teaneck, N.J.
      