
        Vittorio Rieti, a prolific American composer who fashioned bright, elegant Neo-Classical scores for the ballets of Serge Diaghilev and George Balanchine, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 96 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was not immediately clear, said his son, Fabio, but Mr. Rieti had suffered a bad fall at his home, breaking several ribs.
        In a career that spanned eight decades, Mr. Rieti wrote music for more than a dozen ballets, seven operas, five symphonies, several concertos, chamber music for a wide variety of instrumental combinations, songs and choral works. His music was widely performed; among the conductors who led performances of Mr. Rieti's works were Fritz Reiner, Frederick Stock, Willem Mengelberg and Arturo Toscanini.
        Mr. Rieti was born in Egypt, to Italian-born parents, and educated in Italy. But his music -- in its wit, craft, lack of pretense and economy of means -- shares similarities with the work of the French group of composers who called themselves Les Six, particularly that of Poulenc. The music of Stravinsky, a close friend, was also an important influence.
        Mr. Rieti continued to compose until shortly before his death. He used to say, "Composing every day is what keeps me alive." In his 75th, 80th and 85th birthday years, there were commemorative concerts in New York that included many new works. "Vittorio Rieti is becoming something of a wonder," Allen Hughes wrote in The New York Times after a 1985 concert. "He will be 87 years old on the 28th of this month, but he is still composing music that is as sprightly and cheerful as anything he ever wrote."
        Other commentators remarked upon the jaunty cheer in Mr. Rieti's music, yet some professed to find its obverse as well. "Rieti's oeuvre stands apart in its specific clarity, gaiety and sophistication of a kind only he possesses," the composer Alfredo Casella once said, "yet it hides a good deal of melancholia."
        In 1973, Mr Rieti said: "I go on writing music. I started when I was 12, and it has become a habit. I maintain the same esthetic assumptions I have always had. I have kept evolving in the sense that one keeps on perfecting the same ground." Three and Six
        Mr. Rieti was born in Alexandria, Egypt, on Jan. 28, 1898. As a musician, he was largely self-taught, although he acknowledged a debt to the composer Alfredo Casella, to the piano pedagogue Giuseppe Frugatta and to some "finishing touches" from Ottorino Respighi. In the early 1920's, he belonged to a group that called itself I Tre, an Italian imitation of Les Six. His first international success came in 1924, when Casella conducted his Concerto for Winds and Orchestra in Prague.
        From 1925 to 1940, he lived in Paris, where he formed close ties with Les Six and with Stravinsky. He wrote ballet music for Diaghilev -- "Barabau" (1925) was particularly succesful -- and incidental music for Louis Jouvet.
        In 1940, Mr. Rieti, his Italian wife, Elsie, and their son moved to the United States, where Mr. Rieti established a close working relationship with Balanchine, whose ballets "Waltz Academy" and "Native Dancers" are set to Mr. Rieti's music. However, Mr. Rieti's best-known collaboration with Balanchine remains "La Sonnambula," in which he orchestrated melodies by Bellini. Late Works for Strings
        The compositions of the last 20 years of Mr. Rieti's life were mostly works for string ensembles, mostly string quartets.
        "He was like Verdi and Tintoretto in the sense that some of his most beautiful works were composed near the end of his life," said Robert Fizdale, a duopianist who, with Arthur Gold, played and recorded much of Mr. Rieti's work. Mr. Rieti wrote numerous compositions for them over the years. Mr. Gold died two years ago.
        While Mr. Rieti was in his 90's, a well-attended annual concert of his chamber music was given in New York, most recently at Merkin Concert Hall, by members of the Orchestra of St. Luke's. Much of the work that was performed was new, and all of it, Mr. Rieti's admirers said, sounded fresh.
        His son said yesterday that Mr. Rieti's final compositions, done in the last two months, were for a string quartet, and another chamber work titled "The Glorious Ensemble."
        Mr. Rieti taught at the Peabody Conservatory from 1948 to 1949, at the Chicago Musical College from 1950 to 1953, at Queens College from 1955 to 1960, and at the New York College of Music from 1960 to 1964.
        He was often encouraged to write his memoirs but said he wasn't interested. "I haven't got records, and I have a bad memory," he told an interviewer in 1973. "Too bad. I've known so many people, but I've lost track."
        Mr. Rieti was married in 1924 to Elsie Rappaport, who died in 1969. He is survived by his son, a painter in Paris; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      