
        James Rusbridger, a British businessman-turned-writer who was the co-author of a book about Pearl Harbor that was published in 1991 despite the protests of the British Government, died on Wednesday in his home near Bodmin, in Cornwall. He was 65.
        The cause of death was not known. The police said there would be an inquest.
        The Daily Telegraph said on Friday that the book, "Betrayal at Pearl Harbor: How Churchill Lured Roosevelt into World War II (Summit Books) contained "valuable insights into the nature of wartime codebreaking," but that Mr. Rusbridger was "too fond of conspiracy theories."
        He and an Australian specialist on code-breaking, Capt. Eric Nave, were the book's co-authors. Captain Nave, who died in 1993, broke Japanese codes for Britain during World War II. In 1939, not long before the war began in Europe, the Japanese Navy began employing an important new code. By the end of the year, Captain Nave was able to read it.
        In "Betrayal at Pearl Harbor," the authors contend that if the British had shared their understanding of the Japanese Navy's codes with the Americans all through 1941, the Americans would have been forewarned and might have defeated the Japanese force that staged the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor in December.
        Mr. Rusbridger and Captain Nave contend in the book that "The denial of this information was no accident, but the deliberate policy of Churchill himself to achieve his aim of dragging America into the war."
        Stephen E. Ambrose, a prominent American military historian, wrote in 1992 that their argument "makes no sense at all."
        The book was published despite opposition from Britain's Ministry of Defense, which repeatedly attempted to persuade Captain Nave not to collaborate with Mr. Rusbridger.
        Mr. Rusbridger was born in Jamaica, grew up there and on Malta and in Britain, was educated at Dover College and went into international commodities trading. He retired in 1974. Accounts that he had an active role in the world of intelligence have varied and been disputed. His other writings included "The Intelligence Game" (1991, New Amsterdam Books).
      