
        David Kirschenbaum, a dealer in rare books and manuscripts who was regarded as the dean of American booksellers, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 99.
        The cause was heart failure, said his son, Bernard, a sculptor in New York.
        Mr. Kirschenbaum, who celebrated his 99th birthday at a party at Sotheby's auction house last week, began selling books at the age of 8 from his father's pushcart in lower Manhattan. He rose to the top of the book trade by helping industrialists, bankers and other businessmen form holdings of American books and manuscripts, especially those written by the Founding Fathers and Abraham Lincoln. Some of these collections are now in the Library of Congress, the Pierpont Morgan Library, the New-York Historical Society, the Clemens Library at the University of Michigan and the Fales Library at New York University. The Martin Library
        One of Mr. Kirschenbaum's clients was Henry Bradley Martin, an heir to the steel fortune of Henry Phipps, a partner of Andrew Carnegie. The 10,000-volume Martin library brought $33 million at auction in 1990. Mr. Kirschenbaum sold Mr. Martin one of the treasures of his collection, George Washington's copy of The Federalist. Mr. Kirschenbaum had acquired it in the 1940's from Phoebe Hearst, the mother of William Randolph Hearst, for $5,000. At the Sotheby's auction of the Martin collection, the copy of The Federalist brought $1.43 million.
        Mr. Kirschenbaum also dealt in 20th-century manuscripts, the most famous of which was the log of the Enola Gay, the B-29 that carried out the atomic bombing of Hiroshima in 1945. Mr. Kirschenbaum bought the log, which had been kept by Robert A. Lewis, the mission's co-pilot, when it was auctioned in 1971 at Parke-Bernet Galleries.
        Although he did virtually all of his important business while lunching at Gino's, an East Side restaurant where he was a fixture for nearly 50 years and where his patronage is honored by a gold nameplate on one of the chairs, Mr. Kirschenbaum was at his desk daily until six months ago, and sporadically thereafter, in his office at 30 East 60th Street.
        Mr. Kirschenbaum's years in the book trade reflect the shifts of the business in this city since the turn of the century. He was born in Tarnow, near Cracow in what is now Poland; he came to New York with his family in 1900. By 1910, he had his own shop on East Broadway, and in 1916 he moved to Second Avenue. A few years later, he moved again to Fourth Avenue, where he operated under the name Bargain Books. In the 1920's, he opened another store on Eighth Street, the first in New York to specialize in selling remaindered books. Carnegie Hall Books
        He changed the name of his business to Carnegie Hall Books in 1928, when he resettled on 57th Street next door to the concert hall. A few years later, as the Depression deepened, he moved to East 59th Street near Lexington Avenue, a neighborhood where he remained until 1982, when his Carnegie Book Shop closed.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Kirschenbaum is survived by a daughter, Frances Brandt of Lido Beach, L.I., five grandchildren and seven great- grandchildren. Services have been scheduled for this morning at 9:30, at Riverside Chapel on Amsterdam Avenue at 76th Street.
      