
        Albert T. Sommers, an analyst of national economic trends, died on Sunday in Boca Raton, Fla., where he was vacationing. He was 74 and lived in Manhasset, L.I.
        He suffered a heart attack on a tennis court on Feb. 7, his family said.
        Mr. Sommers strove to explain the mysteries of business cycles, statistics and the volatile changes at work in vital economic forces. He took a historical perspective, set the American economy into a worldwide context and explored the the social, political and ethical pressures that influence -- and inhibit -- economic performance.
        Since 1950 he was associated with the Conference Board, a nonprofit business research organization supported mostly by American corporations and trade associations. He started as a senior economist, was director of economic research from 1961 until 1972, and was senior vice president and chief economist from then until 1985. Since then he was senior fellow and economic counselor to the Board. Published The Sommers Letter
        One of Mr. Sommers's principal vehicles was The Sommers Letter, which he started in 1981 to present the outlook on financial, industrial and policy matters.
        Mr. Sommers wrote many books and articles published by the Conference Board and elsewhere. His book "The U.S. Economy Demystified," written with Lucie R. Blau, was issued by Macmillan in 1992 and went into a third updated edition last year.
        Albert Trumbull Sommers was born in Milford, Conn., graduated from Columbia University and served with the United States Army in World War II. He earned a master's degree at New York University in 1949.
        In his years with the Conference Board, he advised hundreds of companies on economic conditions and what was ahead for them and the United States economy. Along the way he won top professional honors in his field.
        He served on numerous panels and advisory boards and as an economic adviser to the Ford Foundation, the American Express Company and Bankers Trust Company, among others. In 1979 and 1980 he was chairman of the price advisory committee to the Carter Administration's Council on Wage and Price Stability. At the time of his death he was the president of Albert T. Sommers & Company, a business consulting firm he founded in 1980.
        He was a director of several industrial and financial institutions and of the National Bureau of Economic Research, a fellow of the National Association of Business Economists and a former member of the Columbia University economics faculty.
        Among the publications he wrote or edited were: "Reconstructing the Federal Budget: A Trillion-Dollar Quandary" (1984), "Understanding the GNP: Keeping Track of the U.S. Economy" (1983), "U.S. Economic Policy Issues in the 1980's" (1981), "A Collision of Ethics and Economics" (1978) and "The Balanced Federal Budget: An Orthodoxy in Trouble" (1978).
        Mr. Sommers is survived by his wife of 47 years, Jean Marvin Sommers; a daughter, Elizabeth Sommers Strevey of Pelham Manor, N.Y., and a son, John, of Oakland, Calif.
      