
        George Tames, a news photographer for The New York Times whose work for nearly half a century changed the way Americans looked at Presidents and political power, died here today while undergoing heart surgery. He was 75.
        His photographs chronicled 10 Presidents from Franklin D. Roosevelt to George Bush, countless members of Congress and visiting statesman from Churchill to Khrushchev. President Eisenhower chose two Tames photographs for official portraits, and a third became the basis of a 6-cent Eisenhower stamp.
        The photo for the stamp was a characteristic Tames shot, taken of Eisenhower in 1953 in an unguarded moment as the President was delivering a radio-television address announcing that a truce had been agreed to ending the Korean War.
        Over the years Mr. Tames also won awards and citations for dramatic action shots of a farmers' protest and a civil rights march and a still life of the Lincoln Memorial. He joined The Times in 1945 after six years with Time magazine. That was the era of the large Speed Graphic camera, whose film holder had to be changed after each shot. He retired from The Times 40 years later in the era of the 35-millimeter camera with high-speed shutters and large, fast lenses. Kennedy at His Desk
        Mr. Tames was a keen student of Washington's changing political culture; early on, he developed an instinct for capturing dramatic moments on film.
        One of his most widely known photographs showed a silhouette of President Kennedy from the back, leaning on his desk in the Oval Office and appearing burdened by the weight of his job. It was the kind of picture that Mr. Tames could find and shoot because of his ability to develop easy and informal access to the powerful.
        "Mine was an unofficial role in his political kingdom," Mr. Tames recalled in his memoir, "Eye on Washington," published in 1990, "that of jokester and bringer of news, rumors and spicy Capitol Hill gossip."
        Knowing that Kennedy often worked standing up because of an injured back and that his door was often open, Mr. Tames saw the President bent over, reading something in a newspaper. "I deliberately underexposed," he said later. "I wanted the blackness, the mood that I saw with my eye." 'Posterity's Spy'
        In a tribute two years ago on the occasion of the National Press Club's Fourth Estate award to Mr. Tames, Ken Burns, the documentary film maker, spoke of Mr. Tames's work as "pictures that last, that speak eloquently, that have and will endure, that clearly are the DNA of our political story in the last 50 years."
        Mr. Burns said Mr. Tames was "posterity's spy -- a mole -- penetrating farther and much deeper into our political landscape and psyche than any reporter who hangs on words has."
        George Tames was born on Jan. 21, 1919, a few blocks from the Capitol. He was the son of Greek-Albanian immigrants; his father was a pushcart peddler. In the Depression, when the large Tames family depended heavily on relief, President Roosevelt was venerated in their back-alley home, his photograph placed alongside those of St. George and the Virgin Mother next to candles on an icon stand.
        George was introduced to the Capitol early in his life. He had to go to work after completing the 10th grade, beginning as an office courier for Time-Life, a job that took him back to Capitol Hill.
        The work of news photographers attracted him, although in those days they were not allowed to roam the corridors of Congress. But he was soon permitted to make photographs of individual members of Congress, and before the end of World War II he was among a small number of photographers permitted to take pictures of President Roosevelt. Truman Was His Favorite
        Although Mr. Tames had a deep affection for Kennedy, President Truman was undoubtedly his favorite, not the least because he was the first to treat photographers with respect.
        Mr. Tames relished the recollection of the day Truman "made White House photographers first-class citizens" by freeing them from a tiny West Wing chamber they called the Doghouse and giving them entree to the press room.
        Mr. Tames recalled Truman telling a foreign dignitary: "I am President of the most powerful nation in the world. I take orders from nobody, except photographers."
        Memorable Tames images conveyed not only the flavor of the capital but also of people who were making headlines: Lyndon B. Johnson as the Senate majority leader, bending Senator Theodore Francis Green of Rhode Island backward over a table to influence him; Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey in a moment of silence he called for when the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was announced; President Nixon, pulling on a sock at a golf club; Truman grinning broadly over his 63d birthday cake. Font of Anecdotes
        Mr. Tames had a wiry build and always seemed to be on the move around a city he loved. He was a tireless raconteur, telling anecdotes he had shared with the high and mighty, capped with a raucous laugh. This was a part of the persona he cultivated that made him popular not only with the politicians he covered but also with his colleagues.
        They celebrated him at 14 retirement parties, starting in 1986, after which everyone lost count. But Mr. Tames did not really retire. He went on shooting pictures as a freelance, mainly for The Times, and when a colleague or a colleague's child got married, he happily volunteered to make the wedding pictures, asking only for the cost of the film and permission to dance with the bride.
        He was usually the life of a party. "He's the champion," Cornell Capa, a former Life photographer, said a decade ago. "He beats everybody."
        In a tribute to Mr. Tames, Wally Bennett, a longtime Washington photographer for Time, said today: "He knew all the players in the political game. He did his background work. He had a marvelous eye. He used his knowledge to make marvelous photographs that will be in the history books."
        Mr. Tames is survived by his wife, the former Frances Faye Owens; two sons, Chris, of Nags Head, N.C., and Michael G., of Manteo, N.C.; three daughters, Pamela T. Goodman of Wilson, N.C., Kathryn Tames-Walton of Springfield, Va., and Stephanie, of Statesboro, Ga., and five grandchildren.
      