
        Dr. Richard G. Van Gelder, whose romance with animals started when he was 7 and led to his becoming one of the youngest curators of the American Museum of Natural History, died yesterday at Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J. Dr. Van Gelder, who lived in Harrington Park, N.J., was 65.
        The cause was leukemia, said his daughter, Leslie Van Gelder.
        Dr. Van Gelder joined the museum in 1956 when he was hired as an assistant curator at 27, while he was a doctoral candidate at the University of Illinois, an unusually young age for a member of the museum's scientific staff.
        Museum executives recalled that he first applied for a position when he was 10, after spending several years prowling the museum's halls and making a general nuisance of himself by badgering the curators with questions.
        A specialist in the areas of taxonomy and evolution, Dr. Van Gelder became chairman of the department of mammals in 1959 and was named a curator in 1969 and curator emeritus in 1986, when he retired. A Wide Expertise
        Dr. Van Gelder was an authority on a wide variety of animal life ranging in size from African elephants and the Panamanian olingo to spotted skunks, fish-eating bats and Central Park squirrels.
        In 1968 Dr. Van Gelder oversaw the installation of Whale II, the 94-foot long blue whale that replaced the 76-foot version that first went on display in 1908.
        Starting in 1966 he presented a series of shows, titled "The Lives of Wild Mammals Around the World," to children. His books include "Monkeys and Apes" (1970), "Whose Nose Is This?" (1975) and "Mammals of the National Parks" (1982).
        Over the years, Dr. Van Gelder campaigned for money and political help for endangered animals. He was a member of the Endangered and Non-Game Species Council, an advisory group to the New York State government. He was a member of many specimen-hunting expeditions to distant niches of the globe.
        He is survived by two sons, Gordon, of Manhattan, and Russell, of Portola Valley, Calif., and his daughter, Leslie, of Washington Crossing, Pa.
        Correction:  February 25, 1994, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about Dr. Richard G. Van Gelder, a retired curator at the American Museum of Natural History, omitted a survivor. He is Dr. Van Gelder's brother, Lawrence.
      