
        David D. Grayson, the president of the troubled Manhattan-based First Investors Corporation, died on Wednesday in Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 73 and lived in Roslyn, L.I.
        The cause was leukemia, a company statement said.
        A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Grayson graduated from Brooklyn College in 1941. He served in the Army Air Corps in World War II, reaching the rank of captain.
        In 1950 he became a salesman for First Investors, which operates a string of mutual funds. After several promotions he and Glenn Head, the new chairman, bought the parent company in 1968. Settling With S.E.C.
        In recent years First Investors ran into legal problems with Federal regulators and authorities in several states. They contended that salesmen for two "junk-bond" funds employed improper high-pressure tactics in the 1980's.
        In December six present and former executives, including Mr. Grayson and Mr. Head, settled out of court with the Securities and Exchange Commission. It had accused them of failing to supervise brokers who defrauded investors in the funds, First Investors' Fund for Income and High Yield Fund. The six, admitting no wrongdoing, agreed not to work as supervisors at brokerage houses for periods of up to nine months.
        Two months earlier, other litigation against the company itself ended in a settlement totaling $32 million in refunds and fines. It was the largest settlement against a mutual fund group.
        Mr. Grayson, a golf and tennis enthusiast, held a private pilot's license and was a member of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association for the last 25 years. He was also an officer in the Investment Company Institute and We Care About New York Inc., a nonprofit organization devoted to quality-of-life issues.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Julie Weinstein Grayson; two sons, Dr. Paul, of Manhattan, and Roger, of Bayside, Queens, and a daughter, Dr. Martha Grayson of Manhattan.
      