
        The Rev. Joseph H. Fichter, a Jesuit sociologist who helped desegregate Roman Catholic parish schools in the South and believed that priests should have the option to marry, died on Wednesday in New Orleans at the Ignatius Residence, a Jesuit retirement home. He was 85.
        He had been ill for a long time, said officials at Loyola University in New Orleans, where he taught for 44 years.
        Father Fichter joined Loyola in 1947 as chairman of the sociology department. He reached emeritus status as professor of sociology in 1982 and continued to teach into the current academic year.
        From 1965 to 1970 he also held the Chauncey Stillman Chair of Catholic Studies at Harvard University and taught as visiting professor at other American universities and overseas.
        Father Fichter was the author of more than 30 books and reports on sociological studies. His "Sociology of Good Works," a memoir of his professional life, was published last month by Loyola University Press in Chicago as a sequel to his 1974 book, "One-Man Research."
        In general, his writings reflected the various fields he investigated, like clerical celibacy and marriage and charismatic renewal. His book "Southern Parish," which was first published in 1951 and reprinted in 1978, is considered a classic study of parish sociology.
        Polls that Father Fichter conducted convinced him that the option to marry had considerable support -- perhaps even majority support -- among priests, including those who would choose to remain celibate themselves. The subject is broached in such volumes as "Pastoral Provisions: Married Catholic Priests" (1989) and "Wives of Catholic Clergy" (1992).
        One of his textbooks, "Sociology," first published in 1957, was reissued in 1971 and remains in print. Doctorate From Harvard
        Father Fichter was born in Union City, N.J., and received bachelor's and master's degrees from St. Louis University and a doctorate in sociology from Harvard. He entered the Jesuit order in Grand Coteau, La., in 1930, and was ordained in 1942.
        He was a past president of the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion and a member of a number of organizations, including the Urban League, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the National Organization for Women. He helped organize the Committee of Students on Interracial Concerns and founded the New Orleans Commission on Human Rights.
        Father Fichter is survived by two brothers, O. J. Fichter of Sarasota, Fla., and Charles L. Fichter of Roswell, Ga.
      