
        Joseph Cotten, a leading man who shifted easily between Broadway and Hollywood, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88.
        The cause was pneumonia, his business manager and attorney, Hugh Robertson, told The Associated Press.
        Among his roles in film classics, Mr. Cotten portrayed an idealistic theater critic in Orson Welles's "Citizen Kane" (1941), a cryptic merry-widow murderer in Alfred Hitchcock's psychological chiller "Shadow of a Doubt" (1943) and a blundering writer in Carol Reed's romantic thriller "The Third Man" (1949).
        He played the rejected suitor of a youthful aristocrat in "The Magnificent Ambersons" (1942), a weapons expert menaced by spies and terrorists in "Journey Into Fear" (1942), which he wrote with Mr. Welles, and an artist inspired by a ghost in "Portrait of Jennie," for which he won the best-actor award at the 1949 Venice Film Festival.
        Mr. Cotten had chiseled features, a resonant voice and a low-key manner. He was tall (6 feet 2 inches) and enhanced his trimness with suits tailor-made without pockets. Broadway and Television
        His Broadway roles included the estranged husband of a willful socialite (Katharine Hepburn) in the benchmark comedy "The Philadelphia Story" (1939-40), the stubborn foil of Margaret Sullavan in the comedy "Sabrina Fair" in the early 1950's, an egomaniacal orchestra conductor in a satire, "Once More With Feeling," with Arlene Francis, in the late 1950's, and an embattled industrialist in a thriller, "Calculated Risk," in the 1960's. His co-star in that play was his wife, Patricia Medina.
        His performances were repeatedly acclaimed by critics and audiences. Reviewing "Sabrina Fair," Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times wrote: "Mr. Cotten gives a most attractive performance. It is masculine, gravel-voiced, cynical and romantic. He is not limited to one dimension."
        Mr. Cotten also had many television credits for both acting and narrating. From 1956 to 1959, he was the host and occasional star of the "Joseph Cotten Show," an anthology series pegged to noted legal cases. Success Came Slowly
        Joseph Cotten was born on May 15, 1905, in Petersburg, Va., where his father, Joseph Cotten Sr., was an assistant postmaster. The youth attended Petersburg schools and studied acting for a year at the Hickman School of Expression in Washington, where he lost his Virginia drawl. He helped pay for his studies by selling vacuum cleaners and playing center on a professional football team.
        In his youth, Mr. Cotten sought success in New York but, unable to win an acting assignment, sold paint for two years. Next, he worked in Miami merchandising potato salad and then selling advertisements for The Miami Herald, for which he occasionally wrote drama reviews. He also acted in plays in Miami's Civic Theater for five years.
        Back in New York, he won a post as an assistant stage manager for the producer David Belasco and had minor roles in several plays. He met and became a friend of Orson Welles, who directed him in several plays for the Federal Theater and Mr. Welles's new Mercury Theater, which Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times called "the liveliest drama household" on Broadway. A Matinee Idol
        With his first major role in "The Philadelphia Story," Mr. Cotten became a matinee idol. He then accompanied other members of the Mercury Theater to Hollywood to appear in "Citizen Kane," his first film, when he was 36. Bosley Crowther of The New York Times said his performance "puts to shame the surface posturing of some of our more popular stars."
        In World War II, Mr. Cotten entertained Allied troops in the United States and overseas in Welles's variety troupe.
        His movie roles also included an earnest police detective in "Gaslight" (1944), a family friend in "Since You Went Away" (1944), a shell-shocked veteran in "I'll be Seeing You" (1945), a soulful poet in "Love Letters" (1945), a paternalistic rancher in "Duel in the Sun" (1946) and an urbane politician in "The Farmer's Daughter" (1947).
        Other characterizations were a weary millionaire in "September Affair" (1951), a larcenous bank officer in "The Steel Trap" (1952), a brooding veteran badgered by his young wife (Marilyn Monroe) in "Niagara" (1953) and a cameo as an alcoholic coroner in Mr. Welles's "Touch of Evil" (1958). The Later Films
        Mr. Cotten appeared in more than 60 movies over 40 years, but after the 1950's his talents were largely wasted. Reviewers characterized nearly all his later films variously as banal, synthetic and pretentious. Nonetheless, the reviewers praised the actor, usually playing supporting roles, as forceful and superior.
        The later movies included "Hush . . . Hush, Sweet Charlotte" (1965), "The Great Sioux Massacre" (1965), "Petulia" (1968), "The Grasshopper" (1970), "Soylent Green" (1973), "A Delicate Balance" (1973) and "Airport '77" (1977).
        In 1981 he lost his voice after a stroke. Speech therapy allowed him to talk again, but his acting career was over. His last feature film was the legendary flop "Heaven's Gate."
        Mr. Cotten discussed his approach to acting in these terms:
        "Directors don't like 'thinking actors,' actors who discuss their work too much. They want you to do it, not talk about it. One director merely told me: 'When you come on, bring something with you.' What is the something? It may be superconfidence, the thing that makes many people dislike actors personally."
        Mr. Cotten is survived by his wife. His first wife, Lenore Kipp, a fashion editor, died of leukemia in 1960.
      