
        Allan G. Odell, who developed the roadside advertising campaign of rhyming jingles for Burma Shave that became a fixture of rural America for almost 40 years, died on Monday at his home in Edina, Minn. He was 90.
        The cause was "just old age," said his son George.
        Fresh out of college in 1925, Mr. Odell joined a patent medicine company, Burma Vita Inc., which was operated by his father, Clinton. The elder Mr. Odell had just come up with a new formula for a brushless shave cream, and Allan won his father's approval to spend $200 on an innovative advertising campaign.
        He came up with a series of small wooden signs spaced 100 feet apart, each carrying one line of a rhyme. The rhymes were by turns genial, flippant, cynical or absurd and loaded with puns, and each pointed toward a snappy payoff line that ended with the name of the product.
        The first signs were erected in Minnesota along U.S. 61 near Red Wing and U.S. 65 near Albert Lea. Mr. Odell's wife, Grace, recalled yesterday that "within a year, repeat orders were coming in for Burma Shave from druggists serving people who traveled those roads." Commercial Success
        Drivers tooling along at 35 miles an hour on the narrow black-top roads of the 1930's and 40's were delighted with the Burma Shave signs, and the advertising campaign quickly became a commercial success. At the peak of the campaign, in the early 1950's, there were 7,000 sets of signs in 45 states.
        Allan, his father and a younger brother, Leonard, who died in 1991 at the age of 83, wrote the jingles for the signs for the first three years, but when their muse began to falter they held a nationwide contest, paying a $100 prize for each of the 25 best jingles and promptly giving their work a place in the sun. In nearly annual contests that the company subsequently held, it received an average of 50,000 nationwide entries.
        Mrs. Odell said this was her husband's favorite jingle:
        Within This Vale
        Of Toil and Sin
        Your Head Grows Bald
        But Not Your Chin
        Burma-Shave
        Among other jingles popular with the public were these:
        Bristles Scratched
        His Cookie's Map
        That's What Made
        Poor Ginger Snap
        Burma-Shave
        Beneath This Stone
        Lies Elmer Gush
        Tickled to Death
        By His Shaving Brush
        Burma-Shave
        Henry the Eighth
        Sure Had Trouble
        Short-Term Wives
        Long-Term Stubble
        Burma-Shave
        Mr. Odell became president of Burma Vita in 1948, but his signs gradually disappeared, a victim of high-speed travel and billboard prohibitions on interstate highways. He retired when the company was sold to the Philip Morris Company in 1963. The signs were discontinued the next year.
        Besides his wife and son George, of Tulsa, Okla., Mr. Odell is survived by two other sons, Clinton, of Edina, and Allan, of Redding, Calif.
      