
        Jorge Zontal, a member of the Canadian art collaborative General Idea, died on Thursday at his home in Toronto. He was 50.
        The cause was AIDS, said A. A. Bronson and Feliz Partz, his partners.
        Mr. Zontal, whose name was originally Jorge Saia, was born in Parma, Italy, in 1944, the son of Yugoslav refugees. (His given name was pronounced HOR-hay, and he later changed his surname to Zontal as a play on the word horizontal). He grew up in Caracas, Venezuela, and in 1968 he earned a degree in architecture at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, where he also studied film making and acting. Soon after graduation, he met Mr. Bronson and Mr. Partz while working on a film in Toronto and their group, General Idea, soon became an active part of the Canadian and then the international art scene. Multi-Media Art
        General Idea is best known for its 1987 redesign of Robert Indiana's "Love" emblem into a quadrant symbol spelling "AIDS." The colorful repeating logo, transformed into paintings, prints, posters and wallpaper, was seen virtually around the world, not only in art galleries and museums, but also on billboards, building exteriors and bus stops.
        But the "AIDS" image was only part of a broad-based multi-media style whose roots were in Dada and whose sights were set on a witty, visually entertaining exposes of consumerism. Approaching projects with the sophistication and eye for detail more usual to design teams or ad agencies than artists, the partners worked in painting, sculpture, photography and installation, as well as video and film. They appropriated actively from popular culture, satirizing corporate logos, brand names and coats of arms, among much else.
        Throughout most of the 1970's, their performances, centering on an imaginary character named Miss General Idea, were a staple of the Toronto cultural scene. From 1972 to 1989, they published their own magazine, File, an art-world parody of Life magazine, and frequently designed inexpensive multiples to be sold at their exhibitions.
        General Idea had their first solo exhibition in Toronto in 1969 and thereafter exhibited frequently in Canada, the United States and Europe. Its work is included in many public collections and has been shown in international exhibitions including the Paris, Venice and Sydney biennals and Documenta 7 and 8. Its most recent museum exhibition, "Fin de Siecle," ended a six-stop tour at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art last fall. The group recently received a lifetime achievement award from the city of Toronto.
        Mr. Zontal is survived by his mother, Mirianna Saia of Caracas.
      