
        Richard M. Bissell Jr., the senior Government official who took responsibility for the Central Intelligence Agency's failed attempt to topple the Castro Government at the Bay of Pigs in Cuba in April 1961, died today at his home in Farmington, Conn. He was 84.
        Mr. Bissell had heart problems, said his aide, Frances T. Pudlo.
        While his role as a principal architect of what became a disaster for the newly installed Kennedy Administration is widely remembered, Mr. Bissell had already made great, largely unsung contributions in other fields of Government service during and after World War II.
        As a special assistant and later the deputy director of plans for Allen Dulles, the C.I.A. chief, he guided the clandestine program for building the high-flying U-2 reconnaissance aircraft, as well as its supersonic successor, the SR-71, and the first orbiting spy satellite, Corona. For this, he became known in aviation circles as a pioneer of aerial reconnaissance. Formed Assassination Team
        Recalling that Mr. Bissell "helped design and develop the specifications for the U-2," Richard Helms, a former Director of Central Intelligence, said today that he would "be remembered in the intelligence community as one of the fathers of high-altitude photographic reconnaissance, which, as it developed, did much to improve intelligence during the cold war."
        As head of clandestine operations, Mr. Bissell was also responsible for the C.I.A.'s creation -- at Kennedy's request after the Bay of Pigs -- of a top-secret assassination project whose target was Fidel Castro, who was then Prime Minister of Cuba.
        Mr. Bissell remained in charge of covert operations until Feb. 28, 1962, when his resignation was accepted; he had submitted it nearly 10 months earlier, shortly after the Bay of Pigs operation. On the first anniversary of that failed invasion, Kennedy awarded him the National Security Medal, calling his achievements on behalf of American intelligence "unique." Oversaw Wartime Logistics
        Little in his previous life appeared to point him toward intelligence work, much less clandestine activity.
        He had studied at Yale University and taught economics there in the 1930's. World War II drew him to Washington, where he became the executive director of maritime shipping, supervising the operation to supply American and allied forces around the world.
        In 1946 he went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to teach economics, but with the onset of the cold war, he was lured back to Washington two years later, this time to help run the Truman Administration's program to blunt Soviet advances in Europe with a vast economic recovery effort.
        Mr. Pudlo, who assisted Mr. Bissell with his memoirs for more than two years, said Mr. Bissell was called to the capital from M.I.T. one April afternoon in 1948 to work on the Marshall Plan; he packed, caught the next train and spent the four years as a senior executive of the Economic Cooperation Administration and its successor, the Mutual Security Agency. On his first day he signed authorizations for $35 million in economic aid to Western Europe.
        Richard Mervin Bissell Jr. was born to New England wealth and prominence. His father was president of Hartford Fire Insurance. He attended the Groton School, Yale and the London School of Economics. Forever Linked to a Fiasco
        Though recalled by a friend as "desperately shy," the bespectacled Mr. Bissell was also fiercely independent and sought out challenging jobs.
        His name will always be linked to the Bay of Pigs fiasco, in which a few hundred Cuban exiles who had been trained and armed by the C.I.A. were landed on the Cuban coast without air cover and left to be crushed by Mr. Castro's far superior forces.
        Before the Bay of Pigs, Mr. Bissell had been slated to succeed Mr. Dulles as Director of Central Intelligence. Afterward, Kennedy told him that both he and Mr. Dulles would have to go.
        A C.I.A. review directed by Lyman B. Kirkpatrick in his capacity as inspector general and completed several months after the Cuban operation put most of the blame for the invasion's failure on Mr. Bissell. While Mr. Bissell never complained in public, in 1987 a historian, Jack B. Pfeiffer, accused Mr. Kirkpatrick of having "deliberately distorted" Mr. Bissell's responsibility.
        In an interview with the capital's Evening Star in 1965, Mr. Bissell said the operation had been subjected to "progressive moderations" that changed the invasion's landing site and eliminated the use of air or sea power by United States armed forces.
        "We can be criticized for allowing this chipping away to go on without insisting on the whole plan or on cancellation," he said. "Because we were so involved in seeing it go ahead, we did not insist on as great freedom of action as we needed."
        Mr. Bissell also noted that the Kennedy Administration had made a terrible miscalculation in expecting that the invasion plan could be kept secret. The fact that Cuban exiles were training in Guatemala to invade their homeland was disclosed in The New York Times three months before the actual landing.
        Mr. Bissell said that in retrospect it was an illusion that the Administration would be able to disclaim "plausibly" American involvement in the invasion.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, the former Ann Cornelia Bushnell; four sons, Richard M. 3d, of Bangor, Me., Winthrop B., of New Britain, Conn., William G., of Middletown, Conn., Thomas E., of New Britain, and a daughter, Ann H., of Washington.
      