
        George H. Sauer, a former college football coach who served as general manager of the New York Titans and later as the first director of player personnel for their successor, the New York Jets, died on Saturday at the Veterans Affairs Hospital in Waco, Tex. He was 83.
        His son, George Jr., a former Jets receiver, said his father died of Alzheimer's disease.
        An all-America fullback under Coach Dana X. Bible at the University of Nebraska, Mr. Sauer, a Nebraska native, played two seasons for the Green Bay Packers before beginning a five-year stint as head coach at the University of New Hampshire in 1937.
        After serving in the Navy in World War II, he coached for two years at Kansas and two at the Naval Academy before taking over at Baylor for five years and serving as athletic director until 1958. Joined the Titans in 1961
        After two years in the insurance business, he joined the Titans in 1961, as the team's backfield coach-general manager.
        When the Titans became the Jets in 1963, Mr. Sauer, the only front-office executive to make the transition, stayed on as director of player personnel, remaining through the team's triumphant Super Bowl season of 1968.
        He spent the next two years as general manager of the Boston Patriots, and four as the team's regional scout in the Southwest.
        Then, returning to Waco, where the family had maintained a home since his days at Baylor, he served four years as chairman of the department of recreational supervision at the Texas State Technical Institute until his retirement in 1976. Navy Team His Most Memorable
        Recalling his father's 15-year coaching career last night, his son noted that while his record included at least four conference championships and three bowl seasons, at New Hampshire, Kansas and Baylor, perhaps his most significant achievement was with a team that never won a game. That was the hapless 1948 Navy squad, which took on an undefeated Army team and fought the mighty Cadets to a 21-21 tie.
        In addition to his son, a textbook graphics specialist in St. Paul, Mr. Sauer is survived by his wife, Lillian; two sisters, Kate Bonsack and Bertha Miller; a daughter, Dana Keifer, and two grandsons.
      