
        Benjamin Ginsburg, who was a leading dealer in antique American furniture until he retired a decade ago, died on Friday at his home in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 89.
        The cause was pneumonia, said his son Henry.
        Mr. Ginsburg was born in Manhattan. He studied engineering at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, but became an antiques dealer when he joined his family's firm, Ginsburg & Levy, in 1925.
        The company was founded in 1901 by Mr. Ginsburg's father, John, and an uncle, Isaac M. Levy. They began as junk dealers on the Lower East Side, but by the time Mr. Ginsburg went to work in the shop, the company had changed radically. With fashionable Madison Avenue locations, at 47th Street and later 68th Street, Ginsburg & Levy stocked English and American furniture as well as European porcelains and catered to wealthy buyers and their decorators.
        Over the next half-century, the company became a magnet for museums and collectors of Americana. Among Mr. Ginsburg's clients were the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the pioneer collectors who bought for themselves and their museums, including Henry Ford; Henry Du Pont for Winterthur in Delaware; John D. Rockefeller Jr., for Colonial Williamsburg in Virginia; Electra Havemeyer Webb, for the Shelburne Museum in Vermont; Ima Hogg, for Bayou Bend in Houston, and Henry Flynt, for Historic Deerfield in Massachusetts.  Author of Many Articles
        After the deaths of the founders in 1953, Benjamin Ginsburg became president and held that position until he and Isaac's son, Bernard Levy, dissolved the firm in 1976. Mr. Ginsburg and his wife, Cora, a prominent dealer in textiles and costumes, remained in business as Benjamin Ginsburg Antiquary at the same location until his retirement in 1983.
        A scholarly man, Mr. Ginsburg wrote authoritative articles on English Delft, brass candlesticks and American furniture, published in the magazine Antiques. Mr. Ginsburg served as president of the Art and Antique Dealers League of America from 1954 to 1957. He was a consultant to the White House when it was redecorated during President John F. Kennedy's term and contributed to the refurbishing of the Diplomatic Reception Rooms at the State Department during the Administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson.
        In addition to his wife and his son Henry, of London, Mr. Ginsburg is survived by another son, Carl, of Alburquerque, N.M.; a daughter, Deborah Ramsden of Woodstock, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
        A memorial service is to be held at 2:30 P.M. today at Ferncliff Cemetery in Hartsdale, N.Y.
      