
        Witold Lutoslawski, an innovative Polish composer whose orchestral and chamber works had a direct and immediate appeal that made them centerpieces of the modern repertory, died on Monday in Warsaw. He was 81.
        He died after a brief illness, said Susan Feder, a vice president at G. Schirmer, which distributes Mr. Lutoslawski's music in the United States.
        Mr. Lutoslawski prized beauty in music and made a point of saying so even when beauty in new music was out of fashion. His works are distinguished by long-lined melodies, an ingenious use of orchestral structure and harmonies that vary from comfortable lushness to pungent acidity. Yet it would be wrong to think of them as neo-Romantic. In creating what he called his "sound language," Mr. Lutoslawski drew freely on avant-garde techniques, spicing his works with a light atonality and limited improvisation.
        The result of his blending of traditional and modern techniques is a catalogue of quirky, evocative works that make an immediate impact. His Concerto for Orchestra (1954), "Funeral Music" (1958), "Livre pour Orchestre" (1968), the Third Symphony (1983) and Chain 2 (1985) are among his works that are frequently performed and have been recorded several times.  Many Works Commissioned
        Musicians who either performed or commissioned his work include Mstislav Rostropovich, Yo-Yo Ma, Peter Pears, Dietrich Fischer-Dieskau, Esa-Pekka Salonen, Zubin Mehta and Sir Georg Solti. And over the last dozen years, the New York Philharmonic, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Los Angeles Philharmonic and the San Francisco Orchestra have presented all-Lutoslawski concerts, a tribute rarely accorded contemporary composers.
        "I cannot say that the need to communicate with an audience is the foundation of my style," Mr. Lutoslawski said in 1988 to an interviewer who asked about his popular appeal. "In principle, I write music that I would like to hear, music that is an expression of my own tastes, wishes and desires. I am offering audiences my own internal truth."
        Witold Lutoslawski (pronounced VEE-told loo-toe-SLAV-ski) was born in Warsaw on Jan. 25, 1913, and although he did not begin to study composition formally until he was 15, he completed his first notated work, a Prelude for piano, when he was 9. He studied piano and composition at the Warsaw Conservatory and mathematics, briefly, at Warsaw University. By the time he had completed his studies, in 1937, he had been performing publicly as a pianist for five years.
        One of his earliest surviving works, the Symphonic Variations (1938), had a successful premiere in 1939. With the invasion of Poland by the Nazis on Sept. 1 of that year, Mr. Lutoslawski joined the Polish Army as a radio communications officer. He was arrested by the Nazis in Lublin early in the war, but escaped and returned to Warsaw, where he and another composer, Andrzej Panufnik, organized underground concerts for the performance of music banned by the Nazis. Atonal Folk Songs
        Reasoning that there was no point in creating concert music for a country that was devastated, he turned his attention to educational works immediately after the war, often adorning folk melodies with atonal counterpoint. In 1947, he completed his First Symphony, a work he had started in 1941. But the premiere, in April 1948, brought misfortune: the Government regarded the symphony as too modernistic and banned it. Mr. Lutoslawski turned once again to writing children's songs, for which he was awarded the State Prize.
        His Concerto for Orchestra, which also drew on folk themes, was a success at its premiere in 1954, and has remained one of his most popular works, even though the composer later disparaged it. In 1956, Government control on music was lifted, and Mr. Lutoslawski and a group of other Polish composers -- Krzysztof Penderecki, Mr. Panufnik, Grazyna Bacewicz and Henryk Gorecki -- founded the Warsaw Autumn Festival, a contemporary-music festival that established Warsaw as a center for new music.
        "The Government stopped interfering with our musical life very early," Mr. Lutoslawski later said, "probably because they decided that music is not an offensive art. It's not semantic. It doesn't carry meaning in the same way literature, poetry, theater and film do."
        The new beginning came gradually. It began with "Funeral Music" in 1958, a work for string orchestra that used Serial techniques, but disguised them in a texture reminiscent of late Bartok, to whom the work was a tribute.  Influenced by Cage
        A more significant stylistic change occurred in 1961 when, after hearing a broadcast of John Cage's Concert for Piano and Orchestra, Mr. Lutoslawski began experimenting with Cage's "chance" techniques. His "Venetian Games" (1961) included stretches that left some decisions to the musicians.
        He continued to include improvisatory sections in his works for the rest of his life, but as in his use of Serialism, he imposed rules of his own. He refused to yield total control to the players: generally, he provided the pitches but let the musicians set the rhythms.
        Mr. Lutoslawski began expanding his palette in the early 1960's. His "Trois Poemes d'Henri Michaux" (1963) for chorus, winds, piano, harp and percussion uses antiphonal effects. For the String Quartet (1964), he gave each instrument a line entirely unrelated to what the three others were playing; it is, in effect, four compositions to be played at once.
        The 1960's also saw completion of the Second Symphony (1967) and the "Livre pour Orchestre" (1968), but Mr. Lutoslawski's orchestral output slowed in the 1970's as he focused on chamber music and vocal works. One of his last pieces, "Subito," for violin and piano, was composed for the International Violin Competition of Indianapolis, where it is to have its premiere in September.
        His music is plentiful on recordings. In 1989, the Polish Muza label collected performances recorded over several decades in a comprehensive six-CD series. Other notable recordings include "Chain 2" and the Partita (Anne-Sophie Mutter, Deutsche Grammophon); the Concerto for Orchestra (the Cleveland Orchestra, conducted Christoph von Dohnanyi, London); the String Quartet (Arditti Quartet, Disques Montaigne) and the Third Symphony (the Berlin Philharmonic, conducted by Mr. Lutoslawski, Philips).
        He is survived by his wife, Danuta, and a stepson, Marcin Boguslawski of Oslo.
      