
        William Morris, a lexicographer and publishing executive who edited the American Heritage Dictionary and the Grolier Universal Encyclopedia, died on Sunday in Riverside Hospital in Columbus, Ohio. He was 80 and lived in Old Greenwich, Conn.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said Michael Weber, his son-in-law.
        Mr. Morris was born in Boston and attended Phillips Exeter Academy. After earning a bachelor's degree from Harvard in 1934, he taught English, Latin and American history at the Newman School in Lakewood, N.J., for two years before working as a salesman for G. & C. Merriam, the publishers of Webster's Dictionary. In 1943 he joined the merchant marine, serving as a chief radio operator in the North Atlantic. He left the service in 1945 as a lieutenant, junior grade.
        For the next 14 years, Mr. Morris edited reference books at Grosset & Dunlap, where he rose to editor in chief. In 1960 he joined Grolier, where he edited the Funk & Wagnall's Standard Dictionaries and the Grolier Universal Encyclopedia. Words and Pictures
        From 1964 to 1971, he edited the American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language. It appeared soon after the third edition of Webster's, which had been widely criticized as too permissive in matters of usage. For the American Heritage Dictionary, Mr. Morris assembled an advisory panel of 104 writers and editors who provided notes intended to guide readers toward good English usage. The dictionary departed from traditional practice by running many photographs, rather than a sprinkling of illustrations, along its wide margins. The American Heritage Dictionary was an immediate success, selling more than a million copies in its first year. It was revised in 1983 and 1992.
        Mr. Morris wrote many books on language and usage, beginning with "Words: The New Dictionary" in 1947. He also wrote "It's Easy to Increase Your Vocabulary" (1957) and, with his second wife, the former Mary Elizabeth Davis, "The Word Game Book" (1959), the Dictionary of Word and Phrase Origins (1962), the Harper Dictionary of Contemporary Usage (HarperCollins, 1975) and the Morris Dictionary of Word and Phrase Origins (HarperCollins, 1977). From 1968 to 1986, the couple also wrote a syndicated column, "Words, Wit and Wisdom," which grew out of a column Mr. Morris had started in 1953, "William Morris on Words."
        Mrs. Morris died in 1986. Mr. Morris's first marriage, to the former Jane Frazer, ended in divorce in 1946.
        He is survived by three daughters, Elizabeth M. Downie of Fenton, Mich.; Susan J. Morris of Albuquerque, N.M., and Mary E. Morris of Brooklyn; three sons, John B., of Worthington, Ohio; Dr. William F., of Minneapolis, and Evan, of Manhattan; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 13, 1994, Thursday
        An obituary on Jan. 4 about William Morris, a lexicographer and publishing executive, gave an incomplete history of his syndicated column "Words, Wit and Wisdom." From 1968 to 1986, Mr. Morris wrote the column with his second wife, the former Mary Elizabeth Davis. After her death, Mr. Morris did carry on the column, most recently with his son Evan, who will continue it.
      