
        Dr. Fritz John, who charted new paths in mathematics as a leading expert on partial differential equations, died on Thursday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 83.
        The cause was heart failure, said Susan Wheeler, a spokeswoman for New York University, where Dr. John was professor emeritus at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences.
        In a career that spanned more than a half century, Dr. John left an indelible mark on mathematics. A colleague at the university, Dr. Richard Courant, now deceased, once described Dr. John's work as "done on the background of a philosophical desire to help understanding of the mathematical structure underlying natural phenomena."
        For example, Dr. John studied ways of solving equations that describe the movements of waves in water or the bending of a material like cardboard, and that deal with the difficult problem of how to describe mathematically what happens at the boundaries of oscillating objects.
        The field of partial differential equations, where Dr. John's work has perhaps had its greatest impact, is one where there are few rules for solving problems and where a mathematician's ingenuity and knowledge of related fields count for more than a refined knowledge of the latest techniques. Solving partial differential equations is a perennial problem in physics and engineering. Many of the fundamental laws of physics, like Maxwell's laws of electromagnetism, are formulated in the language of partial differential equations, as are mathematical models describing fluid flow.
        Despite the strong connection of his research to real-world problems, Dr. John was in a sense a mathematician's mathematician. His work was widely praised among his colleagues, but he showed little interest in publicity. In fact, he once said that he wanted neither fame nor fortune but rather "the grudging admiration of a few close friends." 'A Scholar in the Truest Sense'
        A colleague at the Courant Institute, Dr. Cathleen Morawetz, recalled that Dr. John used to say, "You're lucky if at least one person reads your paper."
        Dr. Courant, for whom the institute is named, said in 1962: "There is no doubt that John is one of the most original and deep mathematical analysts of our time. He is a scholar in the truest sense, profoundly dedicated to his academic task in research and teaching, completely uncorrupted by the activity of the marketplace, yet a full personality with wide intellectual interests."
        Dr. John was born in Berlin in 1910 and received his Ph.D. from the University of Gottingen in 1933. He came to the United States in 1935 as an assistant professor at the University of Kentucky. He directed research at the Institute of Numerical Analysis at the National Bureau of Standards from 1950 to 1951.
        Dr. John was the recipient of a MacArthur Foundation "genius" award in 1984 as well as awards from the American Mathematical Society and the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics. He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and held the Courant Chair at the Courant Institute from 1976 until he retired in 1981.
        Dr. John is survived by his wife, Charlotte; two sons, Frederic, of Larchmont, N.Y., and Thomas, of Wilmington, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
      