
        Christopher Lasch, the author of "The Culture of Narcissism," "The Minimal Self" and other theoretical works on modern culture, died yesterday at his home in Pittsford, N.Y. He was 61.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Nell Commager.
        In his wide-ranging books and essays, Mr. Lasch offered a leftist analysis of industrial capitalism and its effects on American politics, social arrangements, modes of thought and personal psychology. As a counterpoise to the alienation and despair he saw as pervasive in American life, he proposed a progressive program that, paradoxically, relied heavily on the values of community, family and self-discipline. Diagnosing a Malaise
        "The Culture of Narcissism"(W. W. Norton) is his best-known work. In the 1979 book, which was on the New York Times best-seller list for seven weeks, he described postwar America as a society of dangerously self-absorbed individuals, fixated on personal goals, fearful of their impulses and easily controlled by power elites.
        President Jimmy Carter asked Mr. Lasch to advise him on Mr. Carter's speech, delivered in July 1979, on the nation's "crisis of confidence." It became known as the "national malaise" speech.
        Mr. Lasch was born in Omaha. His father, Robert Lasch, was a journalist and editorial writer for The Omaha World Herald. His mother, Zora, was a social worker and later a philosophy professor. He graduated summa cum laude from Harvard with a bachelor's degree in history in 1954. After earning a master's degree in history from Columbia University in 1955 and a doctorate in 1961, he became an associate professor at the University of Iowa in 1964 and a full professor the next year.
        He was a professor of history at Northwestern University from 1966 to 1970 and at the University of Rochester from 1970 until his death. In 1979 he was named the Don Alonzo Watson Professor of History, and in 1985 he was named chairman of the history department.
        His first book, "The American Liberals and the Russian Revolution" (1962), described the predicament of American liberals, whom he said cold-war politics had forced to take an unreflecting anti-Communist line.
        Mr. Lasch drew widespread attention with his second book, "The New Radicalism in America (1889-1963): The Intellectual as a Social Type" (Norton, 1965), which sought to explain the origins and present problems of the intellectual class in America.
        His next book, a collection of essays titled "The Agony of the American Left" (1969), also took a critical look at the radical left, taking its members to task for their emphasis on personal liberation and a naive belief in the possibility of a wholesale revolution.
        Mr. Lasch's later books, including the 1977 "Haven in a Heartless World: The Family Besieged" (Basic Books) and "The Minimal Self: Psychic Survival in Troubled Times" (Norton, 1984), dealt with politics more broadly defined.
        In his most recent book, "The True and Only Heaven: Progress and Its Critics" (Norton, 1991), Mr. Lasch traced the evolution of philosophies of social progress and shed light on the naysayers, overlooked thinkers like Henry George and Reinhold Niebuhr who he said proposed "a more strenuous and morally demanding definition of the good life."
        His book "The Revolt of the Elites and the Betrayal of Democracy" is to be published by W. W. Norton in the fall.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his father, of Green Valley, Ariz.; a sister, Kate Allen of Denver, and four children: Robert, of South Newfane, Vt., Elisabeth, of Syracuse, Catherine, of Rochester, and Christopher, of Boulder, Colo.
      