
        Dr. Walter H. Judd, a physician and missionary who rose to national prominence as a crusader against Chinese Communism and Japanese expansionism in the years before World War IIand who later became a United States representative, died on Sunday at Collington Life Care Community in Mitch ellville, Md. He was 95.
        The cause was cancer, said Cindy Carpenter, his granddaughter.
        He was elected to Congress in 1942 after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor and became one of the most influential members of the House on foreign policy. After the war, he was credited with playing an important role in American efforts to build stability in Europe through economic relief and development programs.
        He was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1981 by President Ronald Reagan, who called him "an articulate spokesman for all those who cherish liberty and a model for all Americans who aspire to serve mankind as physicians, spiritual leaders and statesmen." 5 Years at Mission Hospital
        Dr. Judd went to Nanjing, China, in 1925 as a medical missionary for the Congregational Board of Foreign Missions. A year later he set out on a 12-day river journey to a mission hospital in Shaowu in Fukien Province and stayed five years before severe malaria forced his return to the United States.
        He went back to China in 1933 as a hospital superintendent in Fenchow, where his mission became a haven for thousands of Chinese fleeing the advancing Japanese armies. He remained in the city for five months after it was captured by Japanese before negotiating his release.
        He returned to the United States and immediately began a two-year campaign warning of Japan's military expansionism. Before resuming his medical practice in Minneapolis, he spent his savings traveling to 46 states to speak to 1,400 groups.
        A native of Rising City, Neb., he worked his way through the University of Nebraska and, after serving a year in the Army, graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1920. He graduated from the university's medical school three years later. Delegate to U.N.
        He was a delegate to the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1957 and to the World Health Organization Assembly in 1950 and 1958. He was an organizer of the Council of Europe and a delegate to the First Consultative Assembly in Strasbourg in 1951.
        Dr. Judd wrote the 1952 legislation removing racial discrimination from American immigration and naturalization laws and sponsored Latin American aid programs that later became known as the Alliance for Progress. He retired from Congress in 1960 but continued touring the country giving speeches until five years ago.
        Memorial services are planned for Thursday at 3:30 P.M. at Collington Life Care Community and Friday at 11 A.M. at Cleveland Park Congregation Church. Burial will be in Rising City.
        Dr. Judd is survived by his wife, Miriam Barber Judd of Mitchellville; three daughters, Mary Lou Carpenter of Minneapolis, Carolyn Judd of Los Angeles, and Eleanor Quinn of Hartford; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      