
        Dr. Hamilton Southworth, an internist who was prominent in medical ethics groups and the administration of Presbyterian Hospital and did early research in sulfa drugs, died yesterday in Presbyterian Hospital. He was 86 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Quogue, L.I.
        He had pneumonia, said his daughter Katharine S. Smith.
        Dr. Southworth retired in 1987 from his Manhattan medical practice, which he began in 1937.
        From 1991 to his death, he was on the board of Choice in Dying, an organization that distributes and publicizes living wills, which enable people to make their wishes known about medical treatment if they come to be unable to make such decisions for themselves.
        Dr. Southworth was also a vice president and a longtime director of a predecessor group, Concern for Dying.
        From 1970 to 1972 he was head of Presbyterian Hospital's medical board and an ex-officio trustee. The panel sets policies and procedures for the medical staff of the hospital, one of the largest private nonprofit hospitals in the country.
        Dr. Southworth also taught part time for many years at the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University's medical school. He became a professor of clinical medicine at the school, where a professorship and a lectureship have been named in his honor.
        In addition, he was a former chairman of the medical ethics committee of the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, which includes the hospital, and remained active on it until his death.
        Dr. Allen I. Hyman, Presbyterian Hospital's chief of staff, said yesterday that Dr. Southworth had been a pioneer in antibiotics research. It was in the mid-1930's, while working at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore, that he did research into what came to be known as sulfa drugs.
        Besides his daughter, Mrs. Smith, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., he is survived by his wife, the former Katharine R. Jones; two sons, Hamilton Jr., of Manhattan, and Thomas S., of Mountain View, Calif.; another daughter, Jean S. Leness of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      