
        Pietro Belluschi, a modernist architect whose career began with a series of elegantly simple structures in the Pacific Northwest and went on to include such major urban buildings as the Pan Am Building and the Juilliard School in in New York and the Bank of America in San Francisco, died on Monday at his home in Portland, Ore. He was 94.
        A native of Italy, he was the last survivor of a generation of architects born in Europe around the turn of the century -- also including Marcel Breuer, Josep Lluis Sert and Louis I. Kahn -- who became major presences in American architecture.
        Mr. Belluschi's early work had a quiet restraint to it, and his ability to create strong modernist works that related to the landscape, climate and materials of the Pacific Northwest brought him national attention. Many of his early buildings were houses and churches of wood, and in the late 1930's and early 40's his architecture played a critical role in the development of the so-called regional style of the Northwest. Notable Tower of Glass and Aluminum
        His early masterpiece, however, was an office tower, the Equitable (now Commonwealth) Building in downtown Portland, finished in 1947, a handsome 12-story building that remains one of the most elegantly sleek towers of glass and aluminum ever built. Generally considered the first curtain-wall structure of glass to be built in the United States, it preceded Lever House in New York by five years, and it put Mr. Belluschi (pronounced bell-OO-ski) at the cutting edge of modern commercial architecture.
        He would never again design a skyscraper that received such universal acclaim. Indeed, many of his later efforts -- like the huge Pan Am (now Met Life) Building in midtown Manhattan, designed in association with Walter Gropius and the firm of Emery Roth & Sons, and the Bank of America, the dark brown granite tower in San Francisco, designed with Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and Wurster, Bernardi & Emmons -- were widely criticized as hulking monoliths, representing a reversal of the modest humanism of the architect's early work.
        Mr. Belluschi was also widely known as an educator. He headed the school of architecture and planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1951 to 1965, and wrote and lectured frequently. He received the Gold Medal of the American Institute of Architects, the highest official honor of the American architectural profession, in 1972, and was awarded the National Medal of the Arts in 1991. A Childhood in Rome
        Pietro Belluschi was born in Ancona, Italy, on Aug. 18, 1899. He grew up in Rome, and was trained as an engineer at the University of Rome. He came to the United States as an exchange student in 1923, and after studying at Cornell University he went to work for Albert E. Doyle, a prominent architect in Portland, who soon died, leaving his firm in some disarray. Mr. Belluschi emerged as its chief designer in 1928; by 1943, he had purchased the firm outright and changed its name to his own.
        Mr. Belluschi's first major building, completed in 1931, was the Portland Art Museum, a spare yet warm structure of brick. But there was far more finesse to the Oregonian Building, a gentle, shimmering mass of glass, marble and granite, finished in 1948, and the Equitable Building, the exquisite glass tower that gave modernism a firm presence in downtown Portland.
        In his later years, both during and after his tenure at M.I.T., Mr. Belluschi frequently designed buildings in association with larger firms that would provide backup and technical support, leaving him free to make major design decisions. He worked frequently with Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, with whom he had a formal affiliation for a period, as well as with Gropius and with Eduardo Catalano, a colleague from M.I.T., with whom he designed the Juilliard School and Alice Tully Hall, the final portions of the original Lincoln Center complex in New York, completed in 1968.
        Mr. Belluschi's prolific career -- he participated in the design of more than 1,000 buildings -- also included St. Mary's Cathedral, the flamboyant, swooping concrete form in San Francisco, completed in 1971 and designed in association with Pier Luigi Nervi; Louise Davies Hall in San Francisco, designed with the Skidmore firm and finished in 1980, and One Financial Center, an office tower in Boston, designed with Jung/Brannen Associates and finished in the early 1980's.
        Mr. Belluschi's first wife, the former Helen Hemmila, died in 1962. He is survived by his second wife, Marjorie, whom he married in 1965; two sons, Peter, of Tacoma, Wash., and Anthony, of Chicago; four grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      