
        Francois Cardinal Marty, the former Archbishop of Paris who led the French Roman Catholic Church after student riots in 1968 provoked unrest and social change, died yesterday when his car was struck by a passenger train in southern France. He was 89.
        The police said Cardinal Marty was driving near his hometown of Villefranche-de-Rouergue when his small car became trapped between the barriers of a grade crossing.
        Cardinal Marty was regarded as a maverick cleric, a vigorous advocate of the worker-priest movement and a leader of the French church's announced mission to reconvert the working class and bring disaffected people back to the church.
        After the Second Vatican Council began in 1962, Pope John XXIII called on him for guidance on bringing the Gospel to the working class, as well as other efforts for reforms in the church. Faulted Lavish Living
        On becoming a Cardinal, he sought to juxtapose the issue of giving financial aid to the poor with what he regarded as the lavish life style of some figures in the Catholic Church.
        "How can one believe that the church is one with the poor," he asked the World Synod of Bishops in 1971, "if she supports uselessly the expenses of pomp?"
        To back up his words, after taking over the Paris Archdiocese, Cardinal Marty gave each of its clergy -- from priest to archbishop -- a stipend of $70 a month. He wanted to introduce an element of humility to the hierarchy, as well as to raise the standard of living of those in the lowest ranks of the clergy.
        He also was to raise -- but not answer -- the question of the correctness of priestly celibacy, by noting the increasing rate at which French priests were renouncing their vocation to get married. Supported Muslim Protests
        Cardinal Marty also supported protests by Muslims, many of whom moved to France after the Algerian war of independence, for increased employment opportunities and better housing.
        After the death of Pope Paul VI in 1978, Cardinal Marty was credited with helping chose as the successor a prelate of pastoral experience, rather than a insider in the Vatican Curia. He supported the election of Albino Cardinal Luciani, the Patriarch of Venice, who became Pope John Paul I.
        Cardinal Marty was the son of a farming couple. After retiring as Archbishop of Paris in 1981, he moved to a Dominican convent near the site of the accident, 375 miles south of Paris.
        Speaking on his retirement, he said, "I wanted to be for everyone a man of God and a brother, for those who believed in God and those who didn't."
      