
        Sidney Wise, who created one of the biggest old-boy networks on Capitol Hill while he was a political science professor at Franklin and Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., died on Tuesday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 69 and lived in Lancaster.
        The cause was a stroke, said Patricia Lawson, a spokeswoman at the college.
        Mr. Wise was the Charles A. Dana Professor of Government at Franklin and Marshall until he retired five years ago. He emphasized the human element of governing and placed his students in internships with friends working in Government, some of whom had been his students.
        His Washington network expanded after Franklin and Marshall admitted women in 1969, as he helped several of his female students obtain jobs on Capitol Hill.
        The most prominent members of his network included former Representative William H. Gray 3d, a Pennsylvania Democrat who headed the House Budget Committee; Kenneth M. Duberstein, who was President Ronald Reagan's chief of staff; Alfred Zuck, a former Assistant Secretary of Labor, and Stanley Brand, former counsel to the Clerk of the House. A Life-Changing Experience
        "Sid Wise changed my life," Mr. Gray said in 1987, four years before resigning from Congress to become president of the United Negro College Fund. "He encouraged me to get into public policy and was instrumental in giving me hands-on political experience."
        Professor Wise criticized what he considered the current fashion in political science, a reliance on computers instead of people.
        He graduated cum laude from Harvard College in 1948 and earned his Ph.D. from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1953. He worked for the Wage Stabilization Board for a year before joining Franklin and Marshall College. He won the Lindback Foundation Teaching Award in 1965 and was appointed Charles A. Dana Professor seven years later. He is a former president of the National Political Science Honor Society.
        He led orientation sessions for newly elected state legislators and wrote what became a classic handbook on state government, "The Legislative Process in Pennsylvania."
        In 1989 Franklin and Marshall awarded him its Socrates Citation for retiring faculty members. The tribute read: "It has been said that Sidney Wise loves politics. That is less than half the truth. He lives politics."
        Professor Wise is survived by his wife, Eileen, of Lancaster; a son, David, of New Carrollton, Md.; and a daughter, Deborah Wise Booth, of DeKalb, Ill.
      