
        Dr. Alonzo Smythe Yerby, a former New York City Hospitals Commissioner and a former department head and professor at the Harvard School of Public Health, died on Wednesday at the Veterans Administration Hospital in the Jamaica Plain section of Boston. He was 72 and lived in Boston.
        The cause was not immediately clear, but he had suffered four strokes in the past, said his wife, Monteal.
        Dr. Yerby was the first black to be Hospitals Commissioner, heading the city's hospitals department, and held the post in 1965 and 1966. He was appointed by Mayor Robert F. Wagner and reappointed, in 1966, by Mayor John V. Lindsay.
        As Commissioner, Dr. Yerby emphasized humanizing medical care, preparing for the advent of the Medicare program in 1966 -- he was one of its authors -- and seeking additional Federal money for municipal hospitals.
        In 1966, he stepped down to become the chairman of the Health Services Administration of the Harvard School of Public Health. He was the first black chairman of a department at the public health school, Kevin Sottak of the school's press office said yesterday.
        Dr. Yerby held that post until 1975 and also was professor of health services administration at the school, from 1966 until 1982.
        In 1980 and 1981, he was also deputy assistant secretary of health for intergovernmental affairs in the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
        In 1982 he joined a military medical school, the School of Medicine of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences at Bethesda, Md., as a professor and as director of its division of health services administration. He retired from that school in 1989.
        Dr. Yerby was born in Atlanta to Rufus Garvin Yerby, who worked for a small hotel chain as a doorman and in other positions, and the former Wilhelmina Smythe. He earned a B.S. degree from the University of Chicago in 1941, then served in the Army in World War II. He earned an M.D. from Meharry Medical College in 1946 and a master's degree from the Harvard School of Public Health in 1948.
        In the early 1960's he held administrative posts in New York's Department of Health and its Welfare Department.
        Dr. Yerby was a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences and the New York Academy of Medicine.
        He was married to Monteal May in 1943.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Mark of Portland, Ore., and Kristen of Concord, Mass.; a daughter, Lynne of Newton, Mass.; a granddaughter, and a brother, Paul, of Detroit. Another brother, the novelist Frank Yerby, died in 1992.
        A memorial service for Dr. Yerby is to be held at 3 P.M. on Saturday at the First Parish in Wayland, Mass., a Unitarian Universalist church.
      