
        Aleksandr B. Chakovsky, a hard-line Communist who helped to define and enforce the party line for Soviet writers and intellectuals for a quarter of a century, died Thursday in Moscow. He was 80.
        From 1962 to 1988 Mr. Chakovsky served as an unofficial cultural arbiter for the Soviet Union through his powerful dual positions as chief editor of Literaturnaya Gazeta, the weekly newspaper that was the principal organ of Soviet literature, and as head of the Union of Soviet Writers.
        Mr. Chakovsky was a novelist and an intellectual. He also was a committed Marxist who directed the criticism of those who deviated from orthodoxy in the post-Stalin era of Khrushchev and Brezhnev.
        "Those few who believe that art can flourish independently of politics are deeply mistaken," Mr. Chakovsky said in 1964. His remarks were taken in the West as the formal Soviet position on intellectual life.
        Despite those views, Mr. Chakovsky supported cultural contacts between the Soviet Union and Western nations. He favored exchange visits by intellectuals and the publication of selected Western literature in Moscow. Mr. Chakovsky was fluent in English and visited the United States many times, beginning in 1959.  'Shark of Socialism'
        A self-proclaimed "shark of socialism," he orchestrated vitriolic attacks in the 1960's and 1970's on such authors as Andrei Sakharov, the dissident nuclear physicist and civil rights advocate; Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, the author of "One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich," and the poet Joseph Brodsky, whom he called "scum."
        In an interview in 1964, Mr. Chakovsky defended the decision of the authorities not to publish Boris Pasternak's "Dr. Zhivago" in the Soviet Union.
        "In 'Zhivago,' Pasternak subjects to doubt what is most fundamental and most important for the entire Soviet people ---- the value of the October Socialist Revolution," he said. "This deeply wounds our national honor and dignity."
        When the dissident writers Andrei D. Sinyavsky and Yuli M. Daniel were convicted in 1966 of writing "anti-Soviet propaganda and agitation" and sentenced to seven and five years respectively in forced labor camps, Mr. Chakovsky commented approvingly, "We have no sympathy with these people."
        From his positions he also castigated some Soviet painters for works that were more Western impressionism than Socialist realism, charged Western journalists with slanted coverage of Soviet affairs, and vilified Soviet Jews who wanted to emigrate, although he was Jewish himself. Moderated Views on Stalin
        Mr. Chakovsky won the Order of Lenin, the Order of the Red Banner and the Stalin Prize and was an apologist for the Communist dictator until after his death, when Mr. Chakovsky moderated his views and allowed that Stalin had been guilty of "repressions."
        Mr. Chakovsky was a teen-ager working as a production worker in an electrical factory when he turned to writing, and by age 23 he had finished biographies of Zola, Barbusse and Heine. During World War II he was a war correspondent and journalist.
        His experiences led to the publication between 1942 and 1945 of parts of a novel titled "It Happened in Leningrad," which established him as a writer in the Soviet state. Other novels, a play and the editorship of the magazine "Foreign Literature" led to his position at the literary newspaper late in 1962, when Soviet leaders sought to rein in intellectual dissent.
        Mr. Chakovsky was replaced as editor of Literary News in 1988, three years after Mikhail Gorbachev became the Soviet leader and began his policy of glasnost and installation of younger, reform-minded officials.
      