
        Ragnar Dekke Naess, an economist and investment counselor to individuals and institutions, died on March 15 at his retirement home in Essex, Conn. He was 93 and had moved there from Manhattan in 1989.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        For nearly 30 years, Mr. Naess was an owner and a senior partner in the firm of Naess & Thomas, a Manhattan-based investment advisory company. The firm started originally as Naess & Cummings in 1939.
        Born in Oslo into a prosperous family, he was educated in Norway until he came to the United States at the age of 19. He graduated in chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1923 and earned an M.B.A. at the Harvard Business School three years later.
        He started his career as an assistant economist at the Federal Reserve Bank in New York, a job involving business forecasting and monetary problems. His interest in the stock market led him to develop economic data and charts with which to appraise business outlook, corporate earnings and stock prices.
        Moving into the private securities business, he found his career derailed by the economic turmoil of the time. But as a researcher for the Goldman Sachs Trading Corporation, his bearish forecasts proved to be correct and he was put in charge of the research department of the parent firm, Goldman Sachs & Company.
        He was right once more when his measurements indicated that the economy and the market would bottom out in 1932. He turned bearish again early in 1937. Later that year he was named economist and a vice president at Tri-Continental Corporation, a large investment fund, with the princely salary of $35,000.
        Two years later he formed his own partnership. The firm was acquired by Schroders Ltd., a London merchant bank, in 1969 and became Schroder Naess & Thomas. He retired as its chairman in 1971 but remained a consultant for several more years. Schroders changed the name to Schroder Capital Management Company in 1983.
        He was a sailing enthusiast and skier, competing into his early 80's.
        Mr. Naess is survived by his wife of 63 years, Margaret Dixon Naess; two sons, Ragnar D., of Brooklyn and Robert E. of Cavendish, Vt.; a brother, Arne, and a sister, Kristine Naess, both of Oslo, and two grandsons.
      