
        Ed Zern, an author, conservationist, outdoorsman and illustrator, died on Friday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 83 and had been a longtime resident of Scarsdale, N.Y.
        The cause of death was Parkinson's disease, said Sandra Weiner, his companion.
        Best known for his "Exit Laughing" column, which appeared in Field & Stream magazine for more than 30 years, beginning in November 1958, Mr. Zern brought a fine sense of irreverance to the hunting and fishing scene. He created a special world where nothing was sacred and everything was good for a laugh. Unusual View of the World
        Nothing in the world according to Zern was what it seemed. In one column, Mr. Zern proved that history's most famous fisherman, Izaak Walton, did not exist, and that Walton's book, "The Compleat Angler," had nothing to do with fishing, but was actually a political allegory meant to praise Charles II and condemn the forces of Oliver Cromwell.
        Mr. Zern was born in West Virginia and grew up in Pennsylvania. He graduated from Pennsylvania State University in 1932 and, after a year in Paris, he went into advertising with the N. W. Ayer agency in Philadelphia.
        He later joined the Geyer agency in New York, where he originated and created a famous series of pun-filled advertisements for Nash cars, illustrated with his unique cartoon drawings, which also appeared with "Exit Laughing." Member of Many Groups
        Mr. Zern was a member of many sportsmen's and conservation groups, including the Theodore Gordon Flyfishers, of which he was a past president, the Atlantic Salmon Federation, and the Boone and Crockett Club, started by Theodore Roosevelt, among others, to preserve big-game animals.
        In 1954, he established a major conversation award program now known as the Chevron/Times Mirror Magazines Conservation Award.
        Mr. Zern also wrote for other magazines, including Audubon and Sports Illustrated, and published seven books, including "To Hell With Fishing," "To Hell With Hunting," "How to Tell Fish From Fishermen," "Are Fishermen People?" and "Hunting and Fishing from A to Zern."
        Besides Mrs. Weiner, Mr. Zern is survived by a daughter, Erica; a son, Brook; a brother, Gordon, and two granddaughters.
      