
        Dr. Jay Brown, the chief of cardiology at Harlem Hospital Center and an associate professor of medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 50 and lived in Manhattan until recently.
        The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Jeffrey Tennyson, at whose home he died.
        Dr. Brown was credited with rebuilding Harlem Hospital's acute coronary-care unit for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. He was also project director for the Heart of Harlem Healthy Heart Program and developed new approaches to preventing cardiovascular disease in inner-city areas.  These included church-based health programs, education via cable television and promoting healthful foods in groceries and restaurants.
        He was a member of the Cardiac Advisory Committee of the New York State Department of Health and of the Emergency Cardiac Care Committee of the American Heart Association. He helped to set cardiac-care standards and policies statewide.
        A past president of the Association of Black Cardiologists, he enhanced that organization's scientific program and helped to define the needs of blacks and other minority groups.
        At Columbia, with which Harlem Hospital is affiliated, he helped to train a generation of students and medical residents in cardiology. His research, described in many articles and papers, led to insights into the effects of sickle-cell anemia and hypertension on cardiac functions, among other things.
        A native of Atlantic City, Dr. Brown graduated from Rutgers University and New York University Medical School. His association with Harlem Hospital dated to 1968, when he began his internship there. He became chief of cardiology in 1977. He joined the Columbia faculty in 1973.
        Besides Mr. Tennyson, Dr. Brown is survived by seven brothers, Lawrence, Ronald, Cortez and Aaron, all residents of New Jersey; Frederick of New York City, and Alan and Walter, residents of North Carolina.
      