
        Jean-Louis Barrault, one of the great actor-directors of 20th-century French theater, died early today in his Paris home at the age of 83.
        Associates said he died in his sleep, apparently of a heart attack.
        Mr. Barrault is probably best remembered abroad for playing the 19th century mime, Baptiste Debureau, in Marcel Carne's 1944 film classic, "Les Enfants du Paradis." In France, though, he was known principally as a giant of both the classical and avant-garde theater.
        Tributes immediately poured in. The Culture Minister, Jacques Toubon, praised Mr. Barrault's "unique mixture of subtlety and power, of intelligence and energy." Jack Lang, a former Culture Minister, said that Mr. Barrault had transformed the art of theater. Student of Mime
        The son of a pharmacist, Mr. Barrault was born at Le Vesinet near Paris on September 8, 1910. At age 21, after abandoning plans to become a painter, he joined the theater company of Charles Dullin and also studied with the French mime, Etienne Decroux.
        By the time he joined the Comedie Francaise in 1940, he had already appeared in 10 films and had directed his first plays. During Germany's occupation of France between 1940 and 1944, he continued to appear in films -- including "Les Enfants du Paradis" -- and on stage, including an acclaimed interpretation of "Hamlet."
        Mr. Barrault's marriage to the actress Madeleine Renaud in 1940 marked the real turning-point in his career. In 1947, they formed the Madeleine Renaud-Jean-Lous Barrault Company, which -- with Miss Renaud as lead actress and Mr. Barrault frequently both actor and director -- breathed life into post-war French theater.
        Over the years, first at the Theatre Marigny, later at the Theatre de l'Odeon and finally at the Theatre du Rond-Point, which still carries their name, they introduced Paris to the work of Jean Anouilh, Eugene Ionesco, Samuel Beckett, Jean Genet and Jean Giraudoux. But they also presented plays by Moliere and Shakespeare. Evicted From Theater
        During the student uprising in the spring of 1968, Andre Malraux, General de Gaulle's Culture Minister, evicted the company and dismissed Mr. Barrault as head of the state-financed Theatre de l'Odeon after students leading an anti-Government protest occupied the premises and turned it into their headquarters. But the episode only boosted Mr. Barrault's popularity.
        Although the actor appeared in a total of 25 movies, only a handful were made after 1960. During the second half of his career, he dedicated himself almost entirely to theater, often taking the Renaud-Barrault Company on tours abroad.
        He also wrote several books on the theater and an autobiography, published in English in 1974 as "Memories for Tomorrow."
        He is survived by his wife.
      