
        John Williams, a writer and educator whose 1972 novel "Augustus" won a National Book Award, died on Thursday at his home in Fayetteville, Ark. He was 71.
        The cause was respiratory failure, his family said.
        "Augustus" was much praised, but the awards ceremony in 1973 produced an unusual display of public disagreement among the judges. It was the first time that the jury split the fiction prize between two writers, Mr. Williams and John Barth, who was cited for his book "Chimera."
        "Composed of fictional letters, dispatches and memoranda," the committee said of Mr. Williams's work, "this epistolary novel brings to life in very human dimensions the violent times of Augustus Caesar (63 B.C.-14 A.D.)"
        A review in The New York Times said: "Out of the events surrounding one of the pivotal moments in Western history, the transition of the Roman Republic to an imperial dictatorship, John Williams has fashioned an always engaging, psychologically convincing work of fiction." Scholarship, Language and Style
        John Edward Williams (he did not use his middle name) was born in Clarksville, Tex. He served in the Army Air Corps in Asia in World War II, becoming a sergeant. He graduated from the University of Denver and earned a Ph.D. in English literature at the University of Missouri in 1954. He returned to Denver as an assistant professor that year, became a professor of English and Lawrence Phipps Professor of the Humanities. He retired in 1985.
        Also at Denver, he was the founding editor of The Denver Quarterly, a literary journal.
        He was regarded as a writer who combined scholarship and language with style. His other books included "Nothing but the Night" (1948), a study of the terror and waywardness of a man who suffered an early traumatic experience; "Butcher's Crossing" (1960), about the Kansas frontier in the 1870's, and "Stoner" (1965), the tale of a professor of English at the University of Missouri.
        All three were reissued in special editions by the University of Arkansas Press, which plans to reprise "Augustus" next year. He also published books of verse and was represented in many anthologies. He was the editor of "English Renaissance Poetry" (1963).
        He is survived by his wife, Nancy Gardner Williams; a son, Jonathan of Denver; two daughters, Pamela Williams, also of Denver, and Katherine Williams of Mount Vernon, N.Y.; three stepsons, James Leavenworth of Fayetteville, Philip Leavenworth of St. Paul, Minn., and Daniel Leavenworth of Denver; a stepdaughter, Gayle Hiester of Redmond, Wash.; a sister, George Rae Cogswell of Fayetteville, and six grandchildren.
      