
        Prof. Melvin M. Tumin, a Princeton sociologist who wrote widely on human nature and the individual's place in society, died on Thursday in the Medical Center at Princeton, N.J. He was 75 and lived in Princeton.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Professor Tumin's areas of interest ranged over race relations, social stratification, education, and crime and violence. At his death he was professor emeritus of sociology and anthropology at Princeton University, where he taught from 1947 until his retirement in 1989.
        His courses at Princeton included social stratification, and human nature and social conduct. He was the author of nearly 20 books and more than 100 articles.
        Professor Tumin served as director of the Mayor's Commission on Race Relations in Detroit before going to Princeton. His subsequent research on segregation and desegregation in the early 1950's was published in 1957 by the Anti-Defamation League, which he later served as a research consultant. Headed Task Force on Violence
        He came to national notice with "Desegregation: Resistance and Readiness" (1958), a study of the attitudes of white male residents of Guilford County, North Carolina, and the factors underlying those attitudes. Another notable book was "Social Stratification: The Forms and Functions of Inequality" (1967). Reissued in 1985, it has been widely used as a textbook.
        He directed a task force on individual violence of the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence. With Donald Mulvihill he contributed three volumes to its 1970 report "Crimes of Violence." He and Prof. Marvin Bressler of Princeton were co-authors of a two-volume "Evaluation of the Effectiveness of Educational Systems," published by the Office of Education in 1969.
        Melvin Marvin Tumin was born in Newark and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in psychology from the University of Wisconsin in 1939. He received his Ph.D. in sociology and anthropology at Northwestern University in 1944 and taught at Wayne University before joining the Princeton faculty as an assistant professor. In the 1960's he also taught at Columbia University Teachers College.
        At Princeton he was also remembered as one of the first to speak up strongly in the 1950's against what his friend Philip Roth, a former writer-in-residence at Princeton, called "blatant patterns of discrimination against Jews" in the university's student clubs. Such discrimination took years more to overcome.
        Professor Tumin is survived by his wife of 46 years, Sylvia Yarost Tumin; two sons, Jonathan, of Wheaton, Md., and Zachary, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      