
        Sir Harold Acton, a scholar, poet and historian who was legendary as the consummate esthete of his generation, died on Sunday at his family's Renaissance villa on a hillside overlooking Florence. He was 89.
        He had been in frail health for some time, friends said.
        A son of Sir Arthur Acton, who came from a family of Shropshire baronets, and of Hortense Mitchell, a wealthy American, Sir Harold wrote more than a score of books, ranging from novels to memoirs, biographies and essays on Chinese poetry. They included noteworthy works on Italian history, "The Last Medici" (1932),"The Bourbons of Naples" (1956) and "The Last Bourbons of Naples" (1961).
        But he did not achieve the literary eminence that seemed his due as a student at Eton and Christ Church, Oxford, where his mother supplied him with plovers' eggs and he gained fame for declaiming T. S. Eliot's "Wasteland" through a megaphone from his study window to passing oarsmen. His first book of poems, "Aquarium," was published in 1923 during his second term, and he cut a wide swath in his loose-fitting wide trousers, which came to be called "Oxford bags" and which he reportedly invented.
        Among his hobbies, he wrote in his "Who's Who" citation, was "hunting the Philistines." A Model for Waugh
        In the 1920's Harold Acton became the undisputed leader of the "dandy esthetes," a label he willingly embraced and later used in the title of his first volume of autobiography, "Memoirs of an Esthete." He was in part the role model for the quintessential esthete, Anthony Blanche in "Brideshead Revisited," written by his old friend Evelyn Waugh, whose wedding he attended as best man.
        From 1932 to 1939, he lived in China, translating, lecturing and immersing himself in studies of Chinese theater and poetry. When World War II was about to break out, he left China and joined the Royal Air Force as a liaison officer in the Mediterranean. After the war, he returned to La Pietra, his 56-room Tuscan villa, which had been occupied by the Germans and which he restored to its prewar splendor. He remained there as a bachelor for the rest of his life, working on his books on the Bourbons and his autobiography.
        Upon his death, he donated La Pietra to New York University, with which he had been associated since the 1960's, to be used for international seminars. Another of his estates in Florence houses the British Institute, a center for the study of British culture and art.
        He was knighted in 1974 for his services to the British Institute and his work furthering Anglo-Italian relations. In 1986 he was made an honorary citizen of Florence.
        Throughout his life, Sir Harold cultivated prominent friends, ranging from artists like Pablo Picasso and Henry Moore to numerous writers, including D. H. Lawrence, Aldous Huxley, Graham Greene and Norman Douglas. A renowned host and conversationalist, he entertained Winston Churchill, Margaret Thatcher, the Prince and Princess of Wales, and many celebrities and artists. On one occasion, Diaghilev and his Russian ballet troupe performed in an arbor of a nearby garden.
        "He was the last of the old crowd and very much a figurehead," the author Anthony Powell said today. Mr. Powell, a contemporary of Sir Harold's at Eton and Oxford, added, "He had no great individual talent save that of representing his generation -- and that was wonderful."
        No immediate family members survive.
      