
        Charles Ballon, a Manhattan lawyer who was active in Jewish philanthropies, died yesterday at his Fifth Avenue apartment. He was 83.
        He died of natural causes, said Orin Kramer, his son-in-law.
        From 1946 until 1989, Mr. Ballon was a partner in the firm of Phillips, Nizer, Benjamin, Krim & Ballon. Starting in the 1930's and continuing into the 1980's, Mr. Ballon represented a number of manufacturers' groups connected with the garment industry.
        From 1965 to 1975 he served as impartial arbitrator in Manhattan's fur industry. At other times he represented the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, principally in expressing the group's wish to curtail the powers of a civilian review board when creation of the board was a political issue in the 1960's.
        In another case in 1955 Mr. Ballon represented the American Civil Liberties Union, which supported the right of a burlesque show to gain a license to operate at a theater in Brooklyn. During the 1950's he was general counsel of the Radio and Television Directors Guild during contract negotiations.
        Mr. Ballon graduated in 1930 from Columbia College, where he was a member of the basketball team, and from its law school in 1932.
        From 1981 to 1988 Mr. Ballon was a trustee of Yeshiva University, serving as chairman of the board of directors of its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law from 1982 to 1986. At other times he served on the board of the Karen Horney Clinic, the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York, the United Jewish Appeal of Greater New York and the United Jewish Appeal.
        Mr. Ballon was the architect of the merger in 1986 of the United Jewish Appeal and the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies. He also was a member of the board of the New York Civil Liberties Union.
        He served as a lieutenant colonel in the Army in World War II.
        Mr. Ballon is survived by his wife, Harriet of Manhattan; two daughters, Hilary Kramer of Franklin Lakes, N.J., and Carla Gorrell of Evergreen, Colo., and a son, Howard, of Los Angeles.
      