
        Lawrence E. Spivak, originator of the NBC News program "Meet the Press" and one of the first broadcasters to use panels of reporters to interview national and international leaders, died yesterday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 93.
        Betty Dukert, the program's senior producer, said the cause of death was congestive heart failure.
        Mr. Spivak retired from "Meet the Press," where he was both moderator and a panelist, in 1975, when the program was in its 27th year on television and its 30th year on radio.
        He had watched his brainchild become a catalyst in enlarging the broadcasting industry's role in news and public affairs: "Meet the Press" was quickly imitated by CBS News with "Face the Nation" and by ABC News with "Issues and Answers," and by many others in later years. In 1992 "Meet the Press" itself was expanded, to an hour from a half-hour. Longest-Running TV Program
        NBC News described the program as the longest-running in television history. It will celebrate its 50th year on the air next year.
        Known for his terrier-like tenacity as an interviewer and what seemed to be a muted but waspish personality, Mr. Spivak always said he saw himself as nothing more than a devil's advocate.
        His style and that of the journalists who regularly appeared on his program stand in sharp contrast to a later generation of television pundits who sometimes used their broadcasting time to express their own opinions.
        Mr. Spivak's directness in asking questions may have paved the way for the later approach, but he was always in control of himself, much as a prosecuting attorney might be. Thus, the guests on his program were most respectful of the questions he asked.
        In 1960, for example, when John F. Kennedy, then a Massachusetts Senator seeking the Democratic Presidential nomination, appeared on "Meet the Press," he said, "I suppose, Mr. Spivak, that you have a long list of challenging questions for me."
        Mr. Spivak replied, "Knowing my high regard for you, Senator, I don't think you'd want me to pull my punches."
        "No," Kennedy responded, "but I wouldn't mind if you lowered your regard a bit." Undersized Boxer in College
        Lawrence Edmund Spivak, who lived for many years in Washington after his retirement, was born in Brooklyn on June 11, 1900, the only son and the second oldest of four children of William B. and Sonya Bershad Spivak. His father was a manufacturer of dresses and nurses' uniforms.
        He graduated from Boy's High School in Brooklyn in 1917, then went to Harvard, graduating cum laude with a B.A. degree in English and history. Only 5 feet 3 inches tall, his main extracurricular passion as an undergraduate was boxing. He liked to say that the only bout he ever lost as an undergraduate was to a student who went on to compete in the Olympic Games.
        After his graduation in 1921, he went to work for Antiques magazine as its business manager. In 1930 he became circulation director and assistant to the publisher of two related magazines, National Sportsman and Hunting and Fishing.
        It was not until 1934 that Mr. Spivak entered the kind of mainstream journalistic enterprise that would prepare him for his later career in broadcasting. That was the year he was named business manager of The American Mercury, a magazine of commentary, fiction and poetry founded 11 years earlier by H. L. Mencken.
        In 1935 Mr. Spivak bought the magazine from the Alfred A. Knopf publishing house. By 1950 The American Mercury was losing $100,000 a year, and Mr. Spivak then sold it to Clendenin J. Ryan, the former secretary to Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia of New York.
        He started "Meet the Press" in 1945 as a radio program on the Mutual Broadcasting System. He was the program's producer and called himself its "permanent" panel member; his first moderator was Martha Rountree, a radio producer who helped develop the format for "Meet the Press."
        Three years later the program was on NBC television. By 1951, Jack Gould, a radio-television critic for The New York Times, was calling it "easily the most provocative program discussion show on the air." Alger Hiss, Accused
        It was on "Meet the Press" in 1948 that Alger Hiss was first accused by Whitaker Chambers of being a Communist, the beginning of what was to become the most celebrated perjury case in a decade of investigations intended to uncover subversive political activity.
        It was also on "Meet the Press" that Gen. Walter Bedell Smith disclosed in 1949 that the Soviets might have developed an atomic bomb. On the same program Gov. Thomas E. Dewey of New York disclosed in 1950 that he would not run again for President, and suggested that voters support Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower. The fact that Dewey made the disclosure in response to a question by Leo Egan, then the political reporter for The New York Times, did not make print journalists feel any more secure.
        Through the years, the guest list of "Meet the Press" was largely a Who's Who of the world's movers and shakers: Sister Kenny, Adm. Hyman G. Rickover, Eleanor Roosevelt, Prime Minister Jawaharal Nehru of India, King Hussein of Jordan, Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia, John L. Lewis of the United Mine Workers, Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge, Richard M. Nixon, Jimmy Carter, President Fidel Castro of Cuba, Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of West Germany, John Foster Dulles, Senator Everett McKinley Dirksen and others of equal luster.
        "Television has an awesome facility for showing up sincerity as well as insincerity," Mr. Spivak said. "So if a man is honest and knows his stuff, he'll emerge with his proper stature. By the same token, so will a phony."
        Mr. Spivak married the former Charlotte Beir Ring in 1924. She died in 1983. They had two children, Judith Spivak Frost and Jonathan Martin Spivak. Survivors include a sister, Frieda Povill of Hollywood, Fla.; Jonathan Spivak, a former Wall Street Journal reporter who lives in France, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 9, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary on March 10 about Lawrence E. Spivak, originator of the NBC News program "Meet the Press," misidentified the occasion on which Whitaker Chambers first accused Alger Hiss of being a Communist. It was on Aug. 3, 1948, before the House Un-American Activities Committee; the charge was repeated two weeks later on "Meet the Press."
      