
        Peyton Hoge Houston, a retired executive who composed 10 volumes of poetry over nearly 60 years, died on Tuesday while vacationing in Rincon, P.R. A resident of Greenwich, Conn., Mr. Houston was 83.
        He died of heart failure after returning from a swim at the beach, his family said.
        Mr. Houston, (pronounced HOUSE-ton), graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton University in 1932 and became a freelance writer and poet. His first volume of verse, "Descent Into the Dust," was published in 1936, and the most recent one, "XVI Complex Songs at the Borders of Silence," appeared in December.
        His work was published in The Kenyon Review, The Paris Review, The Hudson Review, Parnassus and elsewhere. A collection of his poetry is being prepared for publication.
        He was born in Cincinnati, the son of an industrialist, George H. Houston. He started his business career in 1941 when he joined his father's management consulting firm, Houston & Jolles, in New York City.
        He left his father's firm in 1949 when he was named vice president of the Equity Corporation, a New York investment company, and held senior positions in its subsidiary, the General United Life Insurance Company. Starting in 1971, his corporate moves were determined by a series of mergers and acquisitions, as he helped to transform the Equity Corporation into Wheelabrator-Frye Inc., which at the time was one of the leading companies dealing with environmental systems.
        He retired as corporate secretary of the Pullman Company of Princeton, N.J., a Wheelabrator-Frye spinoff, when it was acquired in 1988 by Forstmann Little & Company of New York. After that he devoted himself fully to his poetry and the arts.
        Mr. Houston's first marriage, to Priscilla Moore, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Parrish Cummings Houston; two adopted sons, Joseph P. Dobson of Manhattan, and Michael Dobson of Greenwich; an adopted daughter, Parrish Dobson of Belmont, Mass.; two stepsons, Robert and Russell Stewart, both of Greenwich; a brother, Harrison, of Greenwich and Louisville, Ky., and five grandchildren.
      