
        The Rev. Paul L. Lehmann, a theologian, scholar of Christian ethics and outspoken civil libertarian, died on Sunday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        A Presbyterian minister, Professor Lehmann was associated with Princeton Theological Seminary, Harvard University Divinity School and Union Theological Seminary in New York. Among his several books was "Ethics in a Christian Context" (1963). It was reissued in 1979 and remains in print.
        Active in politics throughout his career, his opposition to McCarthyism led him to become founding chairman of the Emergency Civil Liberties Committee in 1951. It was formed by 150 clergymen, educators and professional people to safeguard Constitutional rights. He firmly rejected insinuations that some of its leaders acted as fronts for Communists. Native of Baltimore
        His character was shaped by the experience of being the closest American friend and soul mate of the German theologian Dietrich Bonhoeffer. The men met as students at Union Theological and he saw off Mr. Bonhoeffer in 1939 as he embarked for Germany after a second visit here.
        By then Mr. Bonhoeffer had become a leader in Martin Niemoller's Confessing Church of Protestants opposed to the Nazi regime. The breakaway group was suppressed and Mr. Bonhoeffer took his ministry underground and joined the resistance. He was hanged the month before the war ended in 1945 for his part in plotting against Hitler.
        A native of Baltimore, Paul Louis Lehmann was the son of a German Protestant pastor, Timothy Lehmann, who immigrated from the Ukraine and became president of Elmhurst College in Illinois. The son graduated from Ohio State University and Union Theological, where he received a doctorate in 1936.
        He taught at Elmhurst and at Wellesley College before he joined Princeton Theological Seminary in 1947 as associate professor of applied Christianity and was named Stephen Colwell Professor of Christian Ethics two years later. In 1956 he went to Harvard as Florence Corliss Lamont Professor of Divinity but returned to Union Theological Seminary in 1963 to teach systemic theology. He reached emeritus status in 1974.
        Having studied with both Reinhold Niebuhr and, in Germany, with Karl Barth, Professor Lehmann was particularly interested in the ethical issues surrounding the Chrstian-Marxist dialogue, war and peace, and human sexuality. Work Nurtured Generations
        With his "contextual ethics" he sought to steer a middle course between "situation ethics" in which the particular situation at hand governs a Christian's response, and the Kantian ethics of absolute rules, categorical imperatives and moral law. He held that rules, such as the Ten Commandments, offer no absolute answers for every problem but are descriptive -- rather than prescriptive -- of Christian life.
        "Paul Lehmann's work has nurtured in generations of students the discernment of God's humanizing action in the social controversies of current events," said Christopher Morse, Dietrich Bonhoeffer Professor at Union Theological. "For Lehmann, the God who is now at hand calls all humanity to be on hand in the struggles for feedom in their time."
        The president of Union Theological, Holand L. Hendrix, called him a stimulating thinker who brought some of the ideas of Barth and Bonhoeffer to American thought and combined the traditionalism of the Protestant Reformation with his own original imagination. "He never simply repeated the ideas of others," he added.
        Professor Lehmann is survived by his wife of 64 years, the former Marion Nelle Lucks, and a sister, Lillie, of West Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
      