
        Rupert Bruce-Mitford, a British archeologist who was an expert on the seventh-century archeological site at Sutton Hoo, in southeastern England, died on March 10 at John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, England. He was 79 and lived in Bampton, near Oxford.
        The cause of death was not disclosed.
        From 1954 to 1969, Dr. Bruce-Mitford was keeper of British and medieval antiquities at the British Museum, whose most noted holdings include the Sutton Hoo treasure. This includes 40 gold items and a variety of imported silverware discovered in 1939 with the remains of a seventh-century Saxon ship more than 80 feet long.
        Dr. Bruce-Mitford was not involved in the 1939 discovery, but he was engaged in additional excavations at Sutton Hoo from 1965 to 1968 and he was responsible for the British Museum's official study, "The Sutton Hoo Ship-Burial," which came out in three volumes between 1975 and 1983.
        The Daily Telegraph on Tuesday called Dr. Bruce-Mitford "the leading authority on the treasures found at Sutton Hoo" and said he "accepted the likelihood that the ship was the funerary bark of Raedwald, king of Anglia and overlord of the English," who died in the 620's.  A Funeral Monument
        In Dr. Bruce-Mitford's view, the king's body may have been cremated. No trace of it was found with the ship, which has come to be widely seen as a cenotaph -- a monument or empty tomb honoring a person whose remains are elsewhere. The objects found with the ship include a scepter, a shield, a helmet, gold jewelry and coins and the remnants of a harp.
        Rupert Leo Scott Bruce-Mitford studied at Hertford College at Oxford University, where he was a Baring Scholar and went on to earn a doctorate in literature. He was on the staff of the British Museum from 1937 to 1977, with time out for service in the British Army in World War II. From 1969 to 1975, he was keeper of medieval and later antiquities, and from 1975 to 1977 he was research keeper.
        His other writings include "The Sutton Hoo Ship-Burial: a Handbook" (1972). He was a Fellow of the British Academy.
        Dr. Bruce-Mitford's first two marriages, to Kathleen Dent, with whom he had three children, and to Marilyn Roberta Luscombe were dissolved. His survivors include his wife of six years, the former Margaret Edna Adams.
      