
        Irving B. Kahn, a founder of the Teleprompter Corporation and a pioneer in cable television, died on Saturday at the New England Medical Center in Boston. He was 76 years old and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y., and West Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mr. Kahn had a heart attack while dining in a restaurant in Boston on Thursday, said his assistant, Brigid Buchanan.
        Mr. Kahn predicted in the 1960's that cable would provide 85 percent of all television reception by the end of the 1970's. His timetable turned out to be overly optimistic. But he was involved in winning and wiring a number of major franchises, including the one in Manhattan now run by Paragon Cable north of 86th Street on the East Side and 79th Street on the West. More recently, he had headed Broadband Communications, a Manhattan-based holding company.
        A nephew of his namesake, Irving Berlin, Mr. Kahn was born in Newark. He won a drum-major scholarship to the University of Alabama.
        In his first job, as a public relations agent for Twentieth Century-Fox, he pioneered radio advertising for movies. After serving as a lieutenant in the Army Air Corps during World War II, he returned to the studio and by 1950 was the vice president in charge of Fox's fledgling radio and television subsidiary. Marketing a New Device
        But when Fox decided not to invest in a new device that would eliminate the need for cue cards to be held just out of the camera's range, Mr. Kahn and two associates decided to market it on their own. Mr. Kahn got CBS to try the Teleprompter for soap operas, starting with "The First Hundred Years," which went on the air on Dec. 4, 1950.
        Soon public speakers were staring into Teleprompters instead of shuffling scripts page by page. Mr. Kahn's Teleprompter Corporation was a consultant to five political conventions and invented a convention podium that came complete with everything from concealed prompting devices to plumbing for water.
        Later the company added an elevator that could lift or lower a speaker.
        Mr. Kahn moved into closed-circuit television in 1956, arranging the rights to championship boxing matches and auto races. It was a lucrative move: In 1959, he said that the video, radio and film rights to a world title bout between Floyd Patterson and Ingemar Johansson produced a net profit of $1 million. (Johansson won by a knockout in the third round.)
        He bought his first cable system the same year. Teleprompter merged with H & B American Corporation in 1970, creating the nation's largest cable company at the time.
        A year later, Mr. Kahn admitted paying the Mayor of Johnstown, Pa., and other city officials $15,000. Mr. Kahn was convicted of bribery in 1971 after Mayor Kenneth O. Tompkins resigned, pleaded guilty and testified against him. Mr. Kahn maintained, before and after his 20-month prison term, that the issue was extortion by the officials and not bribery by Teleprompter.
        He was also convicted of perjury.  Mr. Kahn stepped down as chairman of Teleprompter several months before his conviction.
        He re-entered the cable business in 1974, when he bought a 55-franchise cable system in southern New Jersey. He sold the system to The New York Times Company in 1981 for $82.7 million, and became a consultant to The Times Company's cable operations. The deal called for him to receive six annual payments totaling $4 million for his services and his promise not to compete. The Times Company sold the system in 1989.
        He is survived by his wife of 45 years, Elizabeth Heslin Kahn; two daughters, Ruth and Jean, both of New York, and a sister, Mildred Breitbart, of West Palm Beach, Fla.
      