
        Oliver Smith, one of the most prolific and imaginative designers in the history of the American theater and a former co-director of American Ballet Theater, died on Sunday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 75.
        The cause was emphysema, said Richard D'Arcy, a friend.
        Mr. Smith's theatrical activities were dazzlingly protean. He designed such Broadway hits as "Brigadoon," "West Side Story," "My Fair Lady," "Camelot" and "Hello, Dolly!" and major ballets by such choreographers as Jerome Robbins, Agnes de Mille and Eliot Feld. He was equally at home in operas and films. By his own estimation in an interview, he had designed more than 250 productions by 1966.
        Mr. Smith also taught scenic design at the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University for 22 years, until last Thursday. Mary Schmidt Campbell, dean of the arts school, said yesterday that he was regarded as "a cornerstone of the design department."
        Over the last 50 years Mr. Smith was a co-producer of shows ranging from lighthearted musicals to serious intellectual dramas. He became co-director of Ballet Theater with Lucia Chase in 1945 and helped the troupe -- now known as American Ballet Theater -- to attain international eminence. When Miss Chase retired in 1980, he stepped down, too, but served again as co-director with Jane Hermann from 1990 to 1992, when he was named director emeritus.
        Mr. Smith knew a great deal about architecture and was an accomplished painter. He studied architecture at Pennsylvania State University, where he received a bachelor's degree in 1939. His paintings have been shown in exhibitions at the Museum of Modern Art, the Brooklyn Museum, the Chicago Art Institute and other institutions.  'You Can Get Smith For Anything'
        His versatility as a designer led the producer David Merrick to say of him in 1965: "Most designers are masters of a single color. So if the basic color of your show is red, you get so-and-so; if it's green, you get somebody else. You can get Smith for anything."
        Mr. Smith was a master of styles as well as colors. His sets for "West Side Story" (1957) were somber cityscapes that had some of the austerity of paintings by Ben Shahn. In contrast, several scenes of "Flower Drum Song" (1958) looked as exquisite as classic Chinese prints. For "Les Noces," choreographed for Ballet Theater in 1965 by Mr. Robbins to the monumental choral score by Stravinsky, Mr. Smith designed a backdrop dominated by stern ascetic figures resembling sacred icons. For "Camelot," the 1960 musical about King Arthur, which Mr. Smith considered his most elaborate production, he conjured up a fairy-tale vision of the Middle Ages with parks, terraces, jousting fields and castles in colors that ranged from soft pastels to sumptuous gold.
        Perhaps Mr. Smith's most visually striking, theatrically resourceful and symbolically meaningful balletic setting is the one he devised in 1948 for "Fall River Legend," Miss de Mille's dance drama about Lizzie Borden.  From a few architectural shapes and a staircase, Mr. Smith suggested both a New England house and a family atmosphere of smug and stifling rectitude. When the house swung around in one scene, it was instantly transformed into a church. But in the ballet's grim finale the set split and vanished, leaving only a gallows onstage.
        Mr. Smith was born in Waupun, Wis., on Feb. 13, 1918. His family moved to Niagara Falls, N.Y.; when he was 3 and later settled in Wellsboro, Pa. Shortly after his graduation from college, and armed with a portfolio of paintings, drawings and architectural sketches, Mr. Smith moved to New York City.
        He shared a house in Brooklyn Heights with other talented young artists, including the composer Benjamin Britten and the writers W. H. Auden, Carson McCullers and Richard Wright. In their division of chores, he served as dishwasher and furnace man.
        He later bought and restored a four-story Federal-style house in Brooklyn Heights and used its attic as his studio. Over the years, several of its rooms served as the residence of illustrious house guests, including the theatrical director Sir Tyrone Guthrie and Truman Capote, who wrote "In Cold Blood" there.
        Sheer gumption led to Mr. Smith's first theatrical commission. One day in 1941, he read in a newspaper that Leonide Massine, the Russian-born choreographer who was then associated with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, was in need of a scenic designer for a work in progress, "Saratoga." In an outburst of bravado, Mr. Smith, a total unknown, rushed to the Ballet Russe offices with his portfolio and managed to get an interview with Massine. The choreographer liked his work and hired him.
        "Saratoga," a comedy about love and horse racing, was a failure. But Mr. Smith's bright sets were admired and Ballet Russe soon hired him again, for what became one of the smash hits of 20th-century ballet, "Rodeo." In 1942, Mr. Smith designed the corral, ranch house and sun-baked prairie for Miss de Mille's western ballet to a memorable score by Aaron Copland. Companies still dance it, always with Mr. Smith's decor.
        Mr. Smith began his long association with Ballet Theater in 1944, and once again made history. He designed a waterfront bar for "Fancy Free," a ballet about sailors on shore leave, which catapulted Mr. Robbins, its choreographer, and its composer, Leonard Bernstein, to fame. Other de Mille And Robbins Projects
        In addition to "Fall River Legend" and "Les Noces," Mr. Smith collaborated on other ballets with Miss de Mille and Mr. Robbins, among them Miss de Mille's "Rib of Eve" and "The Four Marys" and Mr. Robbins's "Facsimile," "Interplay" and "Age of Anxiety."
        Among the other dance productions he designed were "Harbinger," Eliot Feld's much-praised first ballet, which received its premiere in 1967; Michael Kidd's "On Stage!" and Martha Graham's "Gospel of Eve."
        As a co-director of Ballet Theater, Mr. Smith left the day-to-day running of the company to Miss Chase and, later, to Mrs. Hermann. Yet his presence was felt. In "Lizzie Borden: A Dance of Death" (1968), Miss de Mille's account of the creation of "Fall River Legend," she wrote that Mr. Smith's chief function was that of catalyst. "He brings talents together, fusing them, providing the atmosphere in which they can ignite," she wrote. "He is a master of dynamics, which is the reason he has served well as co-director of Ballet Theater."
        Although the company was often in financial peril, Mr. Smith always encouraged choreographers. In 1957, he helped supervise the Ballet Theater Workshop, which produced new ballets on shoestring budgets. In 1981 he administered, with Richard Englund, a comparable project called the Emerging Artists Laboratory.
        But no matter how deeply involved he was in ballet, Mr. Smith always found time to return to the theater. The long list of major Broadway productions he designed includes "High-Button Shoes," "Miss Liberty," "Paint Your Wagon," "Candide," "Auntie Mame," "Jamaica," "Destry Rides Again," Flower Drum Song," "A Taste of Honey," "Luv," "Cactus Flower" and "Plaza Suite."
        Mr. Smith also designed productions of "La Traviata" and "Martha" for the Metropolitan Opera" and "Naughty Marietta," "The Tender Land" and "The Most Important Man," a 1971 work by Gian Carlo Menotti, for the New York City Opera.
        Mr. Smith's Hollywood credits include designs for "The Band Wagon" and the screen adaptations of "Oklahoma!," "Guys and Dolls," "Porgy and Bess," "The Sound of Music" and "The Unsinkable Molly Brown." He also served as artistic consultant for "The Turning Point," a film about life in a large ballet company that some viewers thought resembled Ballet Theater.
        In addition to designing productions, Mr. Smith was occasionally a co-producer of plays and musicals. His first venture in this field was "On the Town," a successful musical inspired by "Fancy Free," which he and Paul Feigay produced in 1944. He worked with several other producers in the decades that followed. Asked why, Mr. Smith told The New York Times in 1957: "There are only two reasons that make a man seek out the agony of economics, hurly-burly and temperament of producing in the theater. First, to make money. Second, the love of ideas. I've done both. 'Gentlemen Prefer Blondes' was for money. 'Clearing' I liked for idealistic reasons."
        The first of the two shows he mentioned was the 1949 musical about the Roaring Twenties that made a star of Carol Channing. The second was "A Clearing in the Woods," Arthur Laurents's moody 1957 drama about an emotionally troubled woman's attempt to make peace with her past. Although it failed at the box office, Mr. Smith remained convinced of its artistic worth.  Designed Works By Sartre and Joyce
        Among the other serious works he co-produced were Jean-Paul Sartre's "No Exit" (1946), Jane Bowles's "In the Summer House" (1957) and "Stephen D." (1968), which was based on the writings of James Joyce. Mr. Smith's intellectually challenging productions also included Peter S. Feiblman's "Tiger, Tiger Burning Bright" (1962), a drama about a black family in New Orleans in which the choreographer Alvin Ailey took an acting role as one of the sons, and Arthur Kopit's "Indians" (1969), which sharply criticized the treatment of American Indians by whites.
        Mr. Smith was never content with commercial success alone. Typically, in 1971, he was a co-founder with Lyn Austin of the Lenox Arts Center, an organization in the Berkshire Hills dedicated to unusual new productions. Gazing with alarm upon the Broadway scene, he told The Times in 1957: "New York is becoming a kind of vast merchandise mart. People go to the theater for escapist entertainment. They don't want a theater of ideas any more. And I don't want a theater of 'Auntie Mames.' "
        A tall, lanky man with closely cropped white hair, Mr. Smith was always impeccably groomed. Even in his impoverished youthful days, he managed to give the impression of a man of the world who lived in a grand style. Well read and artistically knowledgeable, he was a slow, thoughtful speaker who conveyed a sense of languid sophistication.
        But this veneer concealed his dynamism and helped make him a welcome and even soothing presence in the often hysterical atmosphere of Broadway and ballet. As the playwright Jean Kerr once said of him, he served as "an island of calm in the sea of temperament."
        His many honors include several Tony Awards, Donaldson and Critics' Circle Awards, the Sam S. Shubert Foundation Gold Medal of 1961, the Pennsylvania State University Distinguished Alumni Award of 1962, a Handel Medallion of 1975 and a Great Teacher Award from New York University in 1981. Mr. Smith was a member of the National Arts Council from 1965 to 1970, and was inducted into the Theater Hall of Fame in 1981.
        He is survived by two brothers, Larue and Kincaid.
      