
        Stanley Ring Klion, a management consultant and retired executive vice chairman and chief operating partner of Peat Marwick International, one of the world's largest accounting and management-consulting firms, died on Monday at White Plains Hospital. He was 70 and lived in Greenwich, Conn.
        The cause was complications from cancer treatment, his family said.
        Mr. Klion retired from the firm -- now known as KPMG Peat Marwick and based in New York -- in 1986, when he became associated with Resource Holdings, a private merchant-banking company. At the time of his death, he was chairman of the Wilson Council, a national advisory body to the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, as well as a visiting professor and executive-in-residence at the Columbia University Graduate School of Business.
        He previously served as an adjunct professor of management at New York University's graduate business school. He was also vice chairman of the business committee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and a trustee and treasurer of the Greenwich Library.
        A native of Manhattan, Mr. Klion was a 1942 Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Rutgers University. In World War II he served in the Pacific and rose to the rank of major in the United States Army. Engineer to Partner
        He started his civilian career as a methods engineer for Sears, Roebuck & Company and joined what was then Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Company in 1955. He became a partner five years later, advanced to vice chairman-management consulting in 1975 and to executive vice chairman in 1981. During his 31 years with the firm he dealt with everything from government agencies to financial institutions to Fortune 100 industrial complexes.
        Mr. Klion is survived by his wife of 42 years, Janet Tucker Klion; three daughters, Catherine, of Chevy Chase, Md., Emily, of Berkeley, Calif., and Jenny, of Manhattan; a brother, Barton H. of Hartsdale, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      