
        Dr. Sidney Charles Werner, who advanced the modern understanding of Graves' disease, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 84.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        Dr. Werner had moved to Tucson from Manhattan after his retirement from Columbia University, where he was emeritus Professor of Clinical Medicine.
        Dr. Werner's work influenced endocrinology, the branch of medicine that deals with the endocrine glands and their hormones. Graves' disease is one of the most common disorders of excess thyroid hormone production, particularly in women. His research disproved previous perceptions of its causes.
        He showed it to be an autoimmune disease, that is, a disease marked by a change of the immune system of the body. And he established classifications of eye changes used to diagnose Graves' disease and devised diagnostic tools, including one of the earliest tests for hyperthyroid disorders.
        A native of Manhattan, Dr. Werner was a 1929 graduate of Columbia College. He received his M.D. and a doctorate in science from Columbia's College of Physicians and Surgeons. After his internship and residence at Presbyterian Hospital in the City of New York, he joined the faculty of the College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1934 as an assistant in medicine.
        He was appointed Professor of Clinical Medicine in 1964. He served as chief of the Combined Endocrine Clinic at Presbyterian Hospital from 1947 to 1974, and headed the hospital's Thyroid Clinic from 1962 to 1977.
        Dr. Werner reached emeritus status in 1974, but continued as a special lecturer in medicine for three more years and as a consultant until 1984. After moving to Arizona in 1977, he was a visiting professor at Tucson Medical Center for eight years.
        Dr. Werner is survived by his wife of 47 years, Shirley Benczer Werner; two daughters, Pamela Bortoletto of Treviso, Italy, and Mady Jaquin of Stroudsburg, Pa.; two sons, Russell of Atherton, Calif., and Dr. Morgan of West Hartford, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      