
        Karl Hess, an anarchist who was once a conservative aide in the Republican Party, died on Friday at the University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville. Mr. Hess, who lived in Kearneysville, W. Wa., was 70.
        The cause was complications following a heart transplant, said his wife, Therese.
        Mr. Hess was a speechwriter for the Republican National Committee in 1949 and 1950. He helped draft the party's platforms in 1960 and 1964.
        After working briefly for President Dwight D. Eisenhower and Vice President Richard M. Nixon, Mr. Hess joined Senator Barry Goldwater's campaign for the Presidency in 1964 and wrote many speeches for him. From Right to Left
        Following the Goldwater defeat, Mr. Hess's personal politics veered over the next few years from the extreme right all the way to the far left. He became a writer and theoretician for anarchist groups and put forward the idea that the far right and the far left were ideological allies, not enemies.
        Mr. Hess trumpeted the idea that the best government is no government at all. He fought taxation of any kind but paradoxically supported the use of Federal agents to implement the Voting Rights Act in the South.
        While living in Washington in the 1970's Mr. Hess tried to create a economically independent utopian community incorporating fish farms, windmills and solar ovens. It failed.
        He ran for governor of West Virginia as a member of the Libertarian Party in 1992 but failed to obtain the necessary signatures to win a place on the ballot.
        Born in Washington, Mr. Hess began a career in journalism as a researcher for the Mutual radio network but was fired when he was found to be only 14 years old. He was a newspaper copy boy at the age of 16 and at 18 became a reporter on the Washington Times-Herald. He worked for the American Mercury and Newsweek in the 1950's. He was the author of "In a Cause That Will Triumph: The Goldwater Campaign and the Future of Conservatism" (1967).
        Mr. Hess is survived by his wife, of Kearneysville, and two sons, Karl Jr. of Las Cruces, N.M., and Eric of Lenexa, Kan.
      