
        John Preston, a writer and editor and a leader of groups involved with gay rights and treatment of AIDS, died yesterday at his home in Portland, Me. He was 48.
        He died of AIDS-related causes, said Melinda Mullin, his New York publicist.
        Mr. Preston wrote or edited more than 30 books of fiction and nonfiction, and 29 of them appear in Bowker's current "Books in Print" directory. In San Francisco in the 1970's he edited The Advocate, a national newspaper published twice a month and aimed at gay and lesbian readers. He began writing full time in 1976.
        Mr. Preston was born in Medfield, Mass., graduated from Lake Forest College in Illinois and was certified as a sexual-health consultant by the University of Minnesota-Twin Cities Medical School. He also studied at the United Theological Seminary in Dayton, Ohio, and the Northwestern Lutheran Seminary in St. Paul. Led Gay Community Center
        In 1970 he founded Gay House in Minneapolis, a gay and lesbian community center, which he co-directed until 1972, when he founded Gay Community Services of Minneapolis. He was also an editor for several national gay publications.
        Mr. Preston's work appeared in almost every gay publication in the United States and Canada and in many European countries. He also published in Interview, Harper's, The Boston Phoenix, Maine In Print and other periodicals.
        His novel "Franny, the Queen of Provincetown," published in 1983, was turned into a play. Among his books, some of them written under pseudonyms, were a number of erotic novels that became cult objects.
        His books included "Personal Dispatches: Writers Confront AIDS" (1990); "The Big Gay Book: A Man's Survival Guide for the Nineties" (1991), and "Hometowns: Gay Men Write About Where They Belong" (1991). Manuscripts at Brown
        The John Hay Library at Brown University acquired his manuscripts and correspondence for its Katzoff Collection in 1992 as part of a move to collect the writings of lesbians and homosexuals.
        Mr. Preston was diagnosed as having H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, some years ago. He said he had found that news particularly depressing because he had followed the safe-sex guidelines he had been advocating for some time.
        He became active in several AIDS organizations in Maine, and most recently served as board president of the AIDS Project of Southern Maine.
        He is survived by his parents, Nancy and Jack Preston of Medfield; two sisters, Betsy Preston-Ackerman of North Stonington, Conn., and Linda Virgilio of Millville, Mass., and two brothers, Marvin, of Concord, N.H., and Kurt, of Brookline, Mass.
      