
        Russell Kirk, who was the author of more than 30 books and hundreds of essays, reviews and syndicated columns and was a founder of the modern conservative movement in the United States, died yesterday at his home in Mecosta, Mich. He was 75.
        Dr. Kirk died of congestive heart failure, said his son-in-law, Jeffrey Nelson.
        Speaking at a testimonial dinner in Dr. Kirk's honor in Washington in 1981, President Ronald Reagan, then newly elected, said: "Dr. Kirk helped renew a generation's interest and knowledge of 'permanent things,' which are the underpinnings and the intellectual infrastructure of the conservative revival of our nation."
        Dr. Kirk was the editor of The University Bookman, an educational quarterly, and founder of the critical journal Modern Age: A Conservative Review. For nearly 25 years he wrote a column on education called "From the Academy" for The National Review, and for 13 years he wrote a newspaper column distributed by The Los Angeles Times syndicate. Wrote Influential Book in 1953
        It was Dr. Kirk's 1953 book "The Conservative Mind: From Burke to Santayana" that established his reputation and lent intellectual weight to the budding conservative movement. Contrary to those who maintained that liberal ideas defined the American experience, Dr. Kirk offered a conservative hagiography that included Edmund Burke, John Adams, James Fenimore Cooper, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Herman Melville, T. S. Eliot and George Santayana.
        Writing for The New York Times Book Review in 1953, Gordon Keith Chalmers, then president of Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio, called the book "very readable, brilliant and even eloquent." His assessment was typical of the book's critical reception, drawing respectful reviews even from liberal commentators.
        Over time, the book became an intellectual bible for the conservative movement, which almost foundered with Lyndon B. Johnson's landslide victory over Barry Goldwater in 1964 but gained supremacy with the election of Mr. Reagan in 1980. Spoke at 500 Campuses
        As one of the most sought-after speakers on the college lecture circuit, Dr. Kirk once calculated that he had addressed students at more than 500 campuses.
        In a 1966 essay for The New York Times Magazine, Dr. Kirk accurately predicted that Mr. Reagan's victory in a Republican primary for governor of California that year would eventually usher in a conservative era in American politics.
        Although staunchly conservative throughout his life, Dr. Kirk never endorsed what came to be known as the radical right. He once called Robert Welch, founder of the right-wing John Birch Society, a "likable, honest, courageous, energetic man" who nevertheless was the "kiss of death" for the conservative cause because of his "silliness and injustice of utterance."
        Even so, Dr. Kirk was often a target of liberal critics. Andrew Hacker, a professor of government at Cornell, wrote in 1964 that Mr. Kirk's writing was frequently exploited "to provide a philosophical gloss on current conservative stirrings."
        Many of Dr. Kirk's critics were less restrained. His 1972 study of T. S. Eliot, "Eliot and His Age," was savaged in an essay in The New York Times Book Review by the English critic Frank Kermode for its acceptance of Eliot's folly as well as wisdom and for insisting that one was either an "Eliotian Tory" or "a barbarian swilling the wines among the ruins of the great chateaus." Mystery and Science Fiction
        Besides his many scholarly books and articles, Dr. Kirk produced a number of works of mystery, suspense and fantasy in publications like the London Mystery Magazine and Fantasy and Science Fiction.
        Russell Amos Kirk was born in Plymouth, Mich., and received a bachelor's degree from Michigan State College in 1940, a master's degree from Duke University and a doctorate of letters from St. Andrews University in Scotland in 1952.
        He taught history, philosophy and related subjects at Michigan State College, the New School for Social Research and C. W. Post College of Long Island University.
        Dr. Kirk is survived by his wife, Annette; four daughters, Monica Kirk Carman of Grand Rapids, Mich., Cecilia Kirk Nelson of Phoenixville, Pa., Felicia Kirk of Tuscon, Ariz., and Andrea Kirk of Mecosta, and a sister, Caroline Pierce of Clearwater, Fla.
      