
        Norman Segal, a Manhattan real-estate developer and patron of the arts, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 50 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was complications of AIDS, said his wife, Gail Clott.
        Mr. Segal was the conceptual creator of, and a partner in, several large-scale residential development projects in Manhattan that were completed in the 1980's and 1990's.
        These included the Montana, a twin-towered apartment building that occupies the blockfront on the east side of Broadway between 87th and 88th Streets. Another was the Colorado, also a high-rise apartment building, on the northeast corner of 86th Street and Third Avenue. That corner was for decades the site of a Woolworth's variety store. At Mr. Segal's initiative, a new Woolworth's was incorporated in the Colorado.
        Still another project of Mr. Segal's was the apartment building at 200 East 87th Street, which is unusual in that it also houses the Dalton School Physical Education Center.
        Leonard Boxer, a partner of Mr. Segal's in various undertakings, said yesterday that "his real talent was that he could conceptualize a residential creation in a difficult site that presented an intellectual challenge to him -- and he could somehow come up with a practical structure."
        Mr. Segal commissioned a life-sized bronze statue of three elderly immigrants sitting on a park bench. The work was in memory of his grandparents, who were immigrants from Central Europe and lived, at the turn of the century, in the neighborhood where the Montana stands. The statue is now in the building's atrium.
        Mr. Segal also collected antique musical instruments and provided support for a number of musicians and painters.
        He was born in the Bronx and grew up in Teaneck, N.J. He earned a bachelor's degree from Brown University in 1965 and a law degree from Fordham University in 1971. After working for the city and for the Starrett Housing Corporation, he went out on his own.
        In addition to his wife, to whom he was married in 1975, Mr. Segal is survived by three daughters, Phoebe, Alexis and Sophie, all of Manhattan; his parents, Jack and Rose Segal of Teaneck; a brother, Howard, of Oradell, N.J., and a sister, Elinor Hirsch of Englewood, N.J.
      