
        Frank Schreider, a determined explorer who lived his dream of roaming the rough edges of the earth and supporting his wanderlust by his pen, died on Jan. 21 in his boat off the island of Crete in the Mediterranean.  Mr. Schreider, who maintained a home in Santa Fe, N.M., was 70.
        Mr. Schreider's body was found in the cabin of his sloop Sassafras, anchored in the port of Canea. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Helen, said.
        Mr. Schreider was in the midst of a three-year voyage through the Aegean and Crete Seas, often sailing his 40-foot boat alone. His wife was about to leave their home in Santa Fe to join him. She flew to Greece and did not return to the United States until yesterday with the news of her husband's death.
        Starting in the 1950's, Mr. Schreider, usually accompanied by his wife, traversed the globe, often retracing the journeys of historic figures and describing his adventures in magazine articles and books. To Tip of the Americas
        The Schreiders' first long journey, starting in 1954, took them from Circle City, Alaska, to the tip of Tierra del Fuego in South America in 18 months. The Pan American Highway had yet to be finished, and the Schreiders used an amphibious truck in coastal waters to skirt areas where roads had yet to be built.
        Their adventures through the Americas were serialized in The Saturday Evening Post, published in the book "20,000 Miles South" (1957), and made into a documentary film.
        In 1960 the Schreiders used another amphibious vehicle to journey down the Ganges River from Hardwar in northern India to the Bay of Bengal. Their next adventure took them 5,000 miles through the Indonesian Archipelago, mostly by amphibious vehicle. The account of that trip was published as "The Drums of Tonkin" (1963).
        The Schreiders' tales of their adventures in Indonesia appeared in two installments in the National Geographic Magazine, which the couple joined in 1967 as a writing and photographic team.
        Over the next three years their assignments from the National Geographic Society took them into the Great Rift Valley in East Africa, along the path trod by Alexander the Great through Asia Minor and Greece, and to the island of Taiwan.
        The Schreiders also made a seven-month 3,845-mile journey following the Amazon from its source at San Francisco high in the Peruvian Andes to the Brazilian coast of the South Atlantic, traveling by foot, horseback, canoe, raft and truck. They recounted their trip in the book, "Exploring the Amazon" (1970). Began Freelance Cereer
        In 1970 Mr. Schreider began a free-lance career, writing for many magazines, including Time, Look and Sail. He also worked in Mexico City as an editor for the United States Information Agency.
        Three years ago he crossed the Atlantic in his boat. He had remained in the Mediterranean most of the time since.
        Mr. Schreider was born in Denver, raised in Boston and served in the Navy's submarine service in the Pacific in World War II. He was a 1950 graduate of the University of California at Los Angeles, where he and his wife met.
        Mrs. Schreider said her husband's appetite for travel stemmed from voracious reading as a child.
      