
        Prof. Eric Holtzman, chairman of the department of biological sciences at Columbia University, was found dead in his office on Wednesday. He was 54 and lived in Manhattan.
        The police said he had apparently committed suicide by poison.
        Professor Holtzman was a cell biologist and researcher and a popular teacher for 28 years. A police spokesman, Sgt. John Clifford, said Professor Holtzman might have been depressed over the recent death of a colleague. He said a small bottle of potassium cyanide had been found on the professor's desk near his body. Neither the police nor the university would identify the colleague.
        Sergeant Clifford said an autopsy would be performed by the New York City Medical Examiner.
        Professor Holtzman was the author or co-author of 77 research papers and 117 other scientific articles. With the late Alex B. Novikoff, he was the author of "Cells and Organelles," a standard biology text. Significant Contributions
        According to Columbia scientists, Professor Holtzman made significant contributions in several major areas: how membranes function in nerve cells; how lysosomes break down harmful substances within cells; how cells manufacture certain proteins, and how cell markers, or chemicals, are used to trace the movement of proteins within cells.
        He also contributed to the study of membrane cycling, and how nerve cells transmit signals and are able to retrieve the transmitting chemicals for reuse.
        Professor Holtzman was born in New York City and was graduated from Columbia College in 1959. He received his doctorate in cell chemistry from Columbia in 1964 and has been a member of the university's faculty ever since.
        He was awarded Columbia's Charles Huebschmann Prize in Zoology in 1958. He was a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and a member of the American Society for Cell Biology, the Histochemical Society and the New York Academy of Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, Sally Guttmacher; a son, Benjamin, both of Manhattan, and his father, Myron, of the Bronx.
      