
        Alvin Ward Vogtle Jr., a former president and chairman of the Atlanta-based Southern Company, parent of one of the country's largest electric grids, died on Sunday at Rockdale Hospital in Conyers, Ga. He was 75 and had lived in Reddick, Fla., since his retirement in 1983.
        The cause was apparently heart failure, the company said.
        Mr. Vogtle led the holding company through a period of growth and challenges as its president and chief executive from 1969 to 1983 and as chairman and chief executive for the months remaining until he stepped down that fall. Among those challenges were the Arab oil embargo of the 1970's, a worldwide recession and inflation rates that drove up the cost of electric power.
        Southern's operating divisions include Alabama Power, Georgia Power, Gulf Power in Florida, Mississippi Power and Savannah Electric.
        A native of Birmingham, Ala., Mr. Vogtle graduated from Auburn University and the University of Alabama Law School. As a member of a Birmingham law firm, he became legal counsel and then president of the Southern Electric Generating Company, a Southern Company subsidiary.  Pilot in World War II
        He was elected a vice president of Alabama Power in 1962 and three years later took the same position at the parent company and Southern Company Services, another subsidiary.
        Immediately after graduating from law school, Mr. Vogtle entered the Army. As an Army Air Force pilot in World War II, he flew more than 30 missions before crash-landing in North Africa.
        Captured and sent to a prisoner of war camp in Germany, he made four unsuccessful escape attempts. On his fifth try, in 1943, he reached safety by scaling a 14-foot barbed-wire border fence and crossing the Rhine to Switzerland.
        Mr. Vogtle is survived by his wife, Rachel Giles Vogtle; three daughters, Kathryn V. Humphrey of Durham, N.C., Anne M. Baldwin of Birmingham, and Rachel G. Vogtle of Gainesville, Fla; four sons, Alvin W. 3d, of Charlottesville, Va., Bryant W., of Charlotte, N.C., William P., of Ocala, Fla., and Robert J., of Gainesville, and four grandchildren.
      