
        Robert Doisneau, whose elegant black-and-white photographs seem the perfect embodiment of Gallic wit and romance, died yesterday at a hospital in Paris. He was 81 and lived in Paris.
        Mr. Doisneau died of "acute pancreatic complications" after a heart-bypass operation on Oct. 7, said Evelyne Daitz, the director of the Witkin Gallery in Manhattan, which represents Mr. Doisneau.
        In a long career, Mr. Doisneau produced many kinds of images, from news photos of the liberation of Paris in World War II to fashion photographs and portraits of artists. But in recent years he achieved astonishing popular success with a single picture that for many people seemed to sum up the pleasures of Paris. A Celebrated Kiss
        The 1950 picture, which shows a young couple stealing a kiss on a busy sidewalk in front of the Hotel de Ville, has been translated into a seemingly endless stream of postcards, note cards, calendars and posters. It was also the subject of a legal dispute last year, when a retired couple sued Mr. Doisneau, asserting that they were the lovers featured in the picture and should be paid for the use of their images.
        The case was dismissed, but in the course of it Mr. Doisneau revealed that the scene had been staged with models -- a surprise to many people, who had assumed the image was unposed. But it revealed the blend of chance and astute planning that gave many of Mr. Doisneau's pictures their sharp edge.
        Staged or discovered, Mr. Doisneau's best images are characterized by their knowing wit and affection for human foibles. Working in a photographic tradition that includes the work of Andre Kertesz, Brassai and Henri Cartier-Bresson, Mr. Doisneau specialized in images of the rich social fabric of Parisian life.
        In one well-known picture from 1948, made from inside an antiques shop window, a neatly dressed middle-aged man gazes longingly at a painting of a nude woman while his wife tries in vain to draw his attention elsewhere. Other pictures have an exhilarating playfulness. In one from 1937, two boys walk down the street on their hands, while two other boys, arms around each other's shoulders, stare in disbelief.
        Some of Mr. Doisneau's more somber images display a delicate beauty, among them a 1955 photograph of a deserted carousel in a brilliant shower of rain. Occasional pictures reveal a more profound disenchantment with people; in a 1954 shot of a street circus, an old chimpanzee gazes with quiet dignity at the camera, ignoring the jostling humans around him. Forger for the Resistance
        Mr. Doisneau was born in Gentilly, a suburb of Paris, in 1912. He studied lithography and engraving before taking up photography in 1929. Two years later, he began to work as an assistant to Andre Vigneau, an advertising photographer and sculptor; he soon discovered Brassai's photographs of the night life of Paris and tried to make similar pictures.
        After serving in the French Army, Mr. Doisneau worked for five years in the advertising department of Renault, the automobile manufacturer. When World War II broke out, he was drafted into the army again, and after the fall of France he supported himself and his family by selling photographic postcards. Meanwhile, he was active in the Resistance as a forger.
        Mr. Doisneau's photographs of the liberation of Paris in 1944 were widely published in American and French newspapers and magazines. Soon after the war, he began working as a photo-reporter for Rapho and other agencies.
        Over the next two decades, Mr. Doisneau's pictures appeared in a wide variety of magazines, including Vogue and Life, for which he made his photograph of the lovers kissing. He also photographed many leading French intellectuals and artists, including Raymond Queneau, Georges Braques, Jean Tinguely and Jacques Tati.
        Even in these portraits his sense of humor was never far from the surface. A 1952 picture of Picasso shows the artist sitting at a table with two branching loaves of bread placed in front of him like bulbous hands.
        In the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Doisneau returned to advertising and commercial photography, and published a series of photographic books for children. In recent years he had undertaken a new documentary project, recording the changing suburbs of Paris where he had grown up.
        Mr. Doisneau is survived by two daughters, Francine Deroudille and Annette Doisneau, of Paris, and four grandchildren.
      