
        Ralph Ellison, whose widely read novel "Invisible Man" was a stark account of racial alienation that foreshadowed the attention Americans eventually paid to divisions in their midst, died yesterday in his apartment on Riverside Drive. He was 80.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his editor, Joe Fox.
        Mr. Ellison's seminal novel, "Invisible Man," which was written over a seven-year period and published by Random House in 1952, is a chronicle of a young black man's awakening to racial discrimination and his battle against the refusal of Americans to see him apart from his ethnic background, which in turn leads to humiliation and disillusionment.
        "Invisible Man" has been viewed as one of the most important works of fiction in the 20th century, has been read by millions, influenced dozens of younger writers and established Mr. Ellison as one of the major American writers of the 20th century.
        Mr. Ellison's short stories, essays, reviews and criticisms also have been widely published over the years; one collection was printed by Random House in 1964 under the title "Shadow and Act." The second and last collection, "Going to the Territory," came out in 1986. Second Novel a Struggle
        Yet Mr. Ellison's long-awaited second novel proved to be a struggle and has yet to emerge.
        Mr. Fox said yesterday that the second novel "does exist. It is very long, I don't know the name, but it is not a sequel to "Invisible Man." The book was started in the late 1950's. The initial work on the book was destroyed in a fire in his home upstate, and that was so devastating that he did not resume work on it for several years.
        "Just recently Ralph told me that I would be getting the book soon, and I know that he had been working on it every day, but that he was having trouble with what he termed 'transitions.' "
        Mr. Fox said he was unsure whether the reference was to transitions in periods described in the work, or transitions between the time periods in which they were written, which have spanned 30 years. Instant Best Seller
        "Invisible Man," was almost instantly acclaimed as the work of a major new author. It remained on the best seller lists for 16 weeks and millions of copies have been printed since its first publication. "Invisible Man" had been reprinted many times and is a standard work of American fiction in the nation's schools and colleges.
        The book is the story of an unnamed, idealistic young black man growing up in a segregated community in the South, attending a Negro college and moving to New York to become involved in civil rights issues only to retreat, amid confusion and violence, into invisibility.
        Hundreds of thousands of readers have felt themselves tingle to the flatly stated passion of the book's opening lines:
        "I am an invisible man. No, I am not a spook like those who haunted Edgar Allan Poe; nor am I one of your Hollywood-movie ectoplasms. I am a man of substance, of flesh and bone, fiber and liquids -- and I might even be said to possess a mind. I am invisible, understand, simply because people refuse to see me . . ."
        And 572 pages later the unnamed narrator was to evolve into the spokesman for all races when he asks in the book's last line: "Who knows but that, on the lower frequencies, I speak for you?" Raised by Mother>
        The author of these now epic lines was born in Oklahoma City. His full name was Ralph Waldo Ellison, for the essayist Ralph Waldo Emerson. Mr. Ellison was the son of Lewis Ellison, a vendor of ice and coal who died accidentally when the boy was only 3 years old. He was raised by his mother, Ida, who worked as a domestic. "Invisible Man" is dedicated to her and Mr. Ellison attributed his activist streak to a mother who had recruited black votes for the Socialist Party.
        Mr. Ellison began playing the trumpet at age 8, played in his high school band and knew blues singer Jimmy Rushing and trumpeter Hot Lips Page. Also drawn to writing, Mr. Ellison was to say later that his early exposure to the works of Ernest Hemingway and T.S. Eliot impressed him deeply and that he began to connect such writing with his experiences "within the Negro communities in which I grew up."
        However, his environment was not segregated. Mr. Ellison was to recall years later that, in the Oklahoma City society of that time, his parents "had many white friends who came to the house when I was quite small, so that any feelings of distrust I was to develop toward whites later on were modified by those with whom I had warm relations."
        He studied classical composition at Tuskegee Institute in Alabama, which he reached by riding freight trains. He stayed at Tuskegee from 1933 to 1936, before moving to New York where he worked with the Federal Writers Project.  Talented Friends
        During a stay in Harlem during his junior year in college, Mr. Ellison met the poet Langston Hughes and the novelist Richard Wright, who several years later published "Native Son."
        Mr. Wright, 6 years older than Mr. Ellison, became a friend. Mr. Wright encouraged him to persevere with writing and short stories followed, including, in 1944, "King of the Bingo Game" and "Flying Home."
        During World War II, Mr. Ellison served in the Merchant Marine as a cook, and became ill from his ship's contaminated water supply. At the end of hostilities, he visited a friend in Vermont and one day typed "I am an invisible man" and the novel started. He recalled later, however, he didn't know what those words represented at the start, and had no idea what had inspired the idea.
        Yet the words and the ideas were to strike a resonant chord among the public, but also among American intellectuals. Over the years such authors as Kurt Vonnegut and Joseph Heller have credited Mr. Ellison with having influenced them.
        Saul Bellow hailed "what a great thing it is when a brilliant individual victory occurs, like Mr. Ellison's, proving that a truly heroic quality can exist among our contemporaries . . . (the tone) is tragicomic, poetic, the tone of the very strongest sort of creative intelligence."
        Mr. Ellison was to teach creative writing at New York University, while also serving as a visiting scholar at many other institutions such as the University of Chicago, Rutgers University and Yale University.
        Mr. Ellison is survived by his wife of 48 years, Fanny, and a brother, Herbert of Los Angeles.
        Mr. Fox said a small funeral service would be held early next week and that a memorial service would be held at a later date.
      