
        Ron Vawter, an avant-garde actor who was a pillar of the Wooster Group, an experimental theater collective in SoHo, died on Saturday on a plane flying from Zurich to New York, his agent said. He was 45 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        He died of a heart attack in his sleep and had AIDS, said his agent, Philip Carlson. Mr. Carlson said Mr. Vawter had been acting in a production of Sophocles' tragedy "Philoctetes" in Brussels when his health deteriorated. He had been hospitalized in Milan, Italy, before leaving for New York.
        A versatile performer, Mr. Vawter won praise from critics for his acting in "Roy Cohn/Jack Smith," his 1992 one-man show Off Broadway, and for other roles.
        Since the mid-1980's, he was also seen in small parts in mainstream vehicles including the films "Philadelphia," "Sex, Lies and Videotape" and "The Silence of the Lambs." A Dual Role
        In the first half of "Roy Cohn/Jack Smith," which was directed by Greg Mehrten, his companion, and performed at the Performing Garage in SoHo, Mr. Vawter wore a purple smoking jacket and gave what has been called an eerie impersonation of the lawyer Roy Cohn denouncing homosexuality. After intermission, Mr. Vawter appeared in sequined eye makeup, a mustache and what has been described as bogus Ali Baba finery to depict the eccentric Jack Smith, the creator of the 1962 movie "Flaming Creatures," which celebrated transvestite fantasy and camp posing.
        Mr. Vawter said the two disparate men had much in common. "They were both white male homosexuals, and they both died of AIDS," he said in a 1992 interview. But, he added, "You couldn't pick two more vastly different reactions to being homosexual and responding to a society that told them their sexuality was wrong or bad or abnormal. Cohn was in complete denial of his homosexuality and on the attack against homosexuals. Smith was the reverse. His theatrical world had to do with the ultimate flaunting."
        Mr. Carlson said Mr. Vawter's film work included starring in the movie version of "Roy Cohn/Jack Smith," which has been filmed but not yet completely edited.
        Mr. Vawter's acting career began in the 1970's. Among his roles with the Wooster Group, he played a talkative prosecutor in "LSD (Just the High Points)," the central figure in "Frank Dell's Temptation of St. Anthony" and a bleak Vershinin in its adaptation of Chekhov's "Three Sisters." Inspiration From Rehearsals
        Mr. Vawter was born in Glens Falls, N.Y., and grew up in Latham, N.Y., near Albany. He graduated from Siena College in Loudonville, N.Y., a private liberal arts college with Franciscan ties, and earned a master's degree from New York University.
        He served in the Army, became an Army recruiting officer in downtown Manhattan, watched rehearsals at the Performing Garage, which was on his way to work, and was inspired to become an actor.
        In addition to Mr. Mehrten, Mr. Vawter is survived by his mother, Matilda Buttoni Vawter of Latham, and two sisters, Celeste Fonda of Albany and Shelley Booth of Kitty Hawk, N.C.
        A memorial service is to be held at a date to be announced.
      