
        Dr. Daniel Rudman, an endocrinologist and nutritionist who devoted his research to the well-being of the frail and elderly, died on Sunday in Froedtert Memorial Lutheran Hospital in Milwaukee. A resident of that city, he was 67.
        The cause was complications after brain surgery, according to the Medical College of Wisconsin, where he had worked since 1988.
        Dr. Rudman and his team focused on the aging of the endocrine system and the resulting hormone deficiencies. At his death, he was professor of medicine at the college and associate chief of staff for extended care at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Milwaukee. Study on Growth Hormone
        Dr. Rudman was the author or co-author of 173 papers, articles and book chapters. He received national attention in 1990 as the principal author of a paper in The New England Journal of Medicine, "Effect of human growth hormone in men over 60 years old."
        The study was based on a clinical trial of 21 healthy men aged 61 to 81. It found that after six months of injections of a genetically engineered version of the natural human growth hormone, the men emerged with bodies that by many measures were almost 20 years younger than the ones they started with.
        "This is not a fountain of youth," he cautioned at the time. "We need to emphasize that the aging process is very complicated and has many aspects."
        He termed the study highly preliminary and said far more work was required to determine the long-term effects. In fact, a paper he published a year later reported adverse symptoms and found that the benefits -- such as an increase in muscle mass and a decrease in body fat -- tended to disappear after the injections were stopped.
        He and other experts warned that the dosage of the hormone had to be determined carefully because of the possibility of adverse side effects. But the original article immediately stirred the interest of the scientific community. 40 Years of Research
        It focused attention on research into aging and the health care and nutrition of the elderly. Currently the National Institutes of Health supports several trials involving human growth hormone as an anti-frailty drug.
        Dr. Rudman was born in Boston and graduated from Boston Latin School. A Yale University graduate in chemistry, he received his medical degree at Yale's School of Medicine in 1949. His research on aging, metabolism, nutrition and the deficiencies of old age spanned 40 years and resulted in many original contributions.
        From 1957 to 1968 he was associated with Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. From then until 1983 he was at Emory University and, before moving to Milwaukee, served as chief of geriatric medicine at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in North Chicago, Ill.
        Dr. Rudman is survived by his wife, Inge Weinberg Rudman, a senior researcher in geriatrics and his closest collaborator; a daughter, Nancy, of San Jose, Calif.; a son, Richard D., of Boston, and a brother, Dr. Irving Rudman of Frankfurt, Ill.
      