
        Anton Tedesko, a consulting engineer who was an expert in sophisticated uses of reinforced concrete in the construction industry, died yesterday at Northwest Hospital in Seattle. He was 90 and had moved to Seattle in 1993 from Bronxville, N.Y.
        The cause of death was myelofibrosis, a bone marrow disorder, said his wife, Sally.
        Mr. Tedesko was an expert in construction involving what are known in the industry as thin shells, made of reinforced concrete. These are large thin slabs that are given a variety of curved shapes and are used to form strong, light, graceful roofs and for other purposes.
        His work largely involved industrial, institutional and government construction projects. He collaborated with I. M. Pei and other architects, was a consultant to the Air Force from 1955 to 1970 and worked on rocket-launching operations at Cape Canaveral.
        The other projects that he was involved with ranged from ice arenas in Canada to a coliseum in Denver and airplane hangars in San Diego and Buenos Aires. Germany to Chicago
        Mr. Tedesko grew up in Austria. Early in his career he worked in Austria and the United States and, from 1930 to 1932, in Germany, where he was with Dyckerhoff & Widmann, a German firm that pioneered in reinforced concrete thin-shell construction.
        In 1932, he joined Roberts & Schaefer, a Chicago-based engineering firm that was working with Dyckerhoff & Widmann to develop new markets for thin-shell construction.
        In 1943 and 1944, Mr. Tedesko, who had become an American citizen in 1938, was an executive in Roberts & Schaefer's Washington office, which designed shells for buildings that were to be used by the United States armed forces.
        He then spent a decade as an executive with the firm in Chicago and was a New York-based vice president from 1956 to 1967. He was self-employed after 1967.
        Mr. Tedesko lived in Vienna as a boy and studied engineering there and in Berlin. He went on to be elected to the National Academy of Engineering in the United States.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Sally Murray, to whom he was married in 1938; a daughter, Suzanne Affolter of Seattle; a son, Peter, of Sewickley, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      