
        Saint Subber, the theatrical impresario who produced Neil Simon's most important early hits on Broadway, died on Tuesday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 76.
        The cause was heart failure, said Arthur Greene, his acountant and business manager.
        A producer who was known for his creative contributions to many of his projects, Arnold Saint Subber broke into producting in 1948 as co-producer of the Cole Porter musical "Kiss Me, Kate." Among the Neil Simon plays he produced were "Barefoot in the Park" (1963), "The Odd Couple" (1965), "Plaza Suite" (1969) and "The Prisoner of Second Avenue" (1971).
        The son of theater-ticket brokers, Mr. Subber was raised in New York City and, after attending New York University, trained for the theater as an assistant stage manager for the producer John Murray Anderson. He also worked on projects with Otto Preminger and George S. Kaufman. He was assistant stage manager for "Hellzapoppin" in 1938 and assistant to Mr. Anderson on Billy Rose's Aquacade at the 1939 World's Fair.  Thought Up 'Kiss Me Kate'
        Mr. Subber thought up the basic premise for the show "Kiss Me, Kate" after working on a production of "The Taming of the Shrew" and observing the differences in the onstage and offstage behavior of the stars, Alfred Lunt and Lynne Fontanne.
        Through mutual friends, he met the stage designer Lemuel Ayers, who also had the notion of a musical based on the Shakespeare play. They joined forces and recruited Samuel and Bella Spewack to write the book and Cole Porter the music and lyrics. The show was a resounding hit, and the pair teamed up again to produce Cole Porter's less successful "Out of This World" in 1950.
        Among other Broadway projects in the 1950's, Mr. Subber co-produced "House of Flowers," by Truman Capote and Harold Arlen (1954), and, with Elia Kazan as director and co-producer, the William Inge play "The Dark at the Top of the Stairs."  Eight-Year Partnership
        Mr. Subber met Neil Simon in 1959 when the young writer was working on the play that eventually became "Come Blow Your Horn." Although Mr. Subber did not produce it, Mr. Simon offered him his next play, "Barefoot in the Park," which Mr. Subber asked Mike Nichols to direct. The producer's successful partnership with Mr. Simon lasted for eight years and included "The Star-Spangled Girl" "Last of the Red Hot Lovers" and "The Gingerbread Lady."
        He also produced an all-star revival of "The Little Foxes," directed by Mike Nichols, at the Vivian Beaumont Theater at Lincoln Center, and Terence Frisby's "There's a Girl in My Soup."
        In the mid-1970's, Mr. Subber became less active on Broadway. His most recent credits included the first stage version of "Gigi" (1973), creative development of the unsuccessful musical "1600 Pennsylvania Avenue," and a creative association with Patrick Meyers, whose play "K-2" reached Broadway in 1981.
        He is survived by a niece, Karen L. Mojeska.
      