
        Judge Edward R. Neaher, who served on the Federal District Court in Brooklyn from 1971 until 1988, died on Tuesday at the Bethesda Rehabilitation and Nursing Center in Chevy Chase, Md. Judge Neaher, who lived in Washington, was 81.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said his daughter, Rosemary Niehuss.
        While he was on the Federal bench, Judge Neaher became embroiled in New York City politics and set the stage for the establishment of the City Council as the main local legislative body, replacing the city's Board of Estimate. Ruling in Lawsuit
        In 1984, Judge Neaher ruled that the structure of the city's Board of Estimate "would appear to be unconstitutional" because it deviated from the Constitution's one-man-one-vote principle, though there might be factors that justified the deviation. His ruling allowed the city to define those factors in an effort to make the board's structure constitutional. The tangled lawsuit had been brought by the New York Civil Liberties Union.
        Later that year, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed his ruling, holding that the city could not justify deviating from the principle of one man one vote.
        Mr. Neaher was the United States Attorney in Brooklyn from 1969 to 1971, and for almost 25 years before that was a partner in the law firm of Chadbourne, Parke, Whiteside & Wolff in Manhattan. From 1943 to 1945 he was a special agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        Judge Neaher was a 1937 graduate of the University of Notre Dame and received a law degree from Fordham University.
        He was a director of the New York City Legal Aid Society and the board and faculty of the Practising Law Institute. He also was a judicial fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers.
        He is survived by his wife of 54 years, Catherine; three daughters, Dr. Nancy Maas of Ithaca, N.Y., Mrs. Niehuss of Washington and Virginia Pape of Potomac, Md.; a son, Edward Jr., of Washington, and a sister, Adele Krupka of Houston.
      