
        Sar A. Levitan, an economist widely known for his analysis of social policy and influence on government programs as diverse as employment training and rural development, died on Tuesday in Washington. He was 79.
        Friends said he had died of cancer.
        Dr. Levitan came to the United States from Lithuania as a teen-ager. Garth Mangum, a longtime colleague, said, "He was expected to follow his father as the fifth-generation rabbi in his family." Instead, he attended the City College of New York, where he developed a fascination with public policy.
        After a four-year stint in the Army in World War II, in which he rose to the rank of captain, he completed a doctorate in labor economics at Columbia University in 1949.
        After teaching briefly at the Plattsburgh campus of the State University of New York, Dr. Levitan moved to Washington and was an aide on the Wage Stabilization Board during the Korean War. He then became a researcher for the Legislative Reference Service of the Library of Congress. Helping the Rural Poor
        Working with Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois, a liberal Democrat who served in the Senate from 1949 to 1966, Dr. Levitan helped to formulate the Area Redevelopment Act, one of the Federal Government's initial efforts to break the cycle of poverty in rural communities.
        The project inspired his first book, "Federal Aid to Depressed Areas" (1964), and began an association with the Ford Foundation that lasted until his death.
        Dr. Levitan served on the faculty of George Washington University since 1967, directing what is now called the Center for Social Policy Studies. He wrote dozens of books, including "Big Brother's Indian Programs -- With Reservations" (1970) and "The Promise of Greatness" (1976), a call on liberals to keep the faith.
        Dr. Levitan's influence extended far beyond what might be expected from a prolific researcher and skilled polemicist. John T. Dunlop, who was Secretary of Labor under President Gerald R. Ford, attributes Dr. Levitan's influence to "a rare combination of dedication to the truth and a passion to fit the facts to the new realities" of society and politics. Link to the New Deal
        Gordon Berlin, a senior vice president of the Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation, called Dr. Levitan "one of the last New Deal liberals, with great faith in the capacities of individuals as well as government."
        Lawrence Katz, the Labor Department's chief economist, said Dr. Levitan had "an encyclopedia of knowledge on labor and education -- on what works and what doesn't."
        His fingerprints can be found on a number of policy initiatives, including welfare reform and child care. And work that Dr. Levitan completed decades ago is still leaving marks.
        Mr. Katz said suggestions made in the 1970's by the Levitan Commission on Employment and Unemployment Statistics were just now finding their way into the method the Government uses to track discouraged workers.
        Dr. Levitan is survived by his wife of 47 years, Brita Ann Buchard, and, as Mr. Berlin put it, "a whole generation of social policy scholars."
      