
        Stephen C. Kleene, a mathematician whose work help lay the foundations of theoretical computer science, died on Tuesday in Madison, Wis. He was 85 and lived in Madison.
        The cause was pneumonia, said Terry Devitt, a spokesman for the University of Wisconsin in Madison, where Dr. Kleene had been on the faculty until his retirement in 1979.
        Beginning in the 1940's, Professor Kleene (pronounced CLAY-nee) helped lay the foundation of theoretical computer science. "His work was mostly in mathematical logic," said Simon Kochen, a professor of mathematics at Princeton University, "but he helped to form the connection between computer science and logic."
        Starting a decade earlier, Professor Kleene began a seminal role in the founding of recursion theory, the rigorous mathematical version of the theory of computible functions; the latter theory governs those functions that can be calculated by a digital computer. He continued to play a prominent role in the development of recursion theory throughout his career.
        Speaking of Professor Kleene, H. Jerome Keisler, the Vilas Professor of Mathematics at Wisconsin and a specialist in mathematical logic, said: "Modern computer science, in large part, grew out of recursion theory, and his work has been tremendously influential for years. One of the reasons for the importance of recursion theory is that it gives us a way of showing that some mathematical problems can never be solved, no matter how much computing power is available." Professor and Author
        Professor Kleene was born in Hartford, graduated from Amherst College in 1930 and earned his doctorate in mathematics from Princeton in 1934. He joined the Wisconsin faculty in 1935. He was at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., in 1939-40 and in 1965-66. He also served as a Navy officer in World War II.
        He was the Cyrus C. MacDuffee Professor of Mathematics at Wisconsin from 1964 until 1979 and also held various administrative posts at the university. He won the National Medal of Science in 1990 and was elected to the National Academy of Science in 1969, a rare honor for a mathematician.
        His writings include the books "Introduction to Metamathematics," which was published in 1952 and is still in print, and "Mathematical Logic" (1962). He was a co-author of "The Foundations of Intuitionistic Mathematics" (1965).
        He was married to Nancy Elliott in 1942. She died in 1970.
        He is survived by his second wife, Jeanne M., whom he married in 1988; four children from his first marriage, Paul E., of Silver Spring, Md., Kenneth C., of Boston, Bruce M., of Rochester, and Pamela L., of Madison; three stepchildren and 10 grandchildren.
      