
        Joe Brainard, an artist, writer, set designer and frequent collaborator with the New York School poets, died on Wednesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 52 and lived in SoHo.
        The cause was AIDS, said his brother John, of Greenwich, Conn.
        In a career of over 30 years, Mr. Brainard brought wit, a light touch and an intimate scale to collage, painting, watercolor and assemblage, once exhibiting 2,500 tiny pieces in a single exhibition. His theater work included set designs for "The Toilet" by LeRoi Jones and "The General Returns from One Place to Another" by Frank O'Hara, and the front curtain for the Joffrey Ballet's 1980 production of Erik Satie's "Postcards." Brought Up in Tulsa
        Mr. Brainard was born in Salem, Ark., in 1942, and grew up in Tulsa, Okla. He moved to New York City when he was 19. Through the poets Ron Padgett and Dick Gallup, high school friends from Tulsa, he got to know many of the New York School poets. He subsequently illustrated more than a dozen books of poetry, including "Bean Sprouts" (1967) by Ted Berrigan and Mr. Padgett, "The Champ" (1968) by Kenward Elmslie and "Self-Portrait" (1972) by Ann Waldman. His most frequent collaborator was Mr. Elmslie, with whom he spent summers in Calais, Vt.
        In his own writing, Mr. Brainard, the author of more than 18 books, worked in a declarative prose-poem mode. Best known are his "I remember" books, in which every sentence began with those words: for example, "I remember the chocolate Easter Bunny problem of where to start." After the poet Kenneth Koch described these works in a book about teaching writing to children, the method was frequently used by schoolteachers.
        Mr. Brainard exhibited at the Fischbach Gallery in 1971, '72, '74 and '75 and is represented in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art.
        In addition to his brother, Mr. Brainard is survived by his parents, Howard and Marie, of Tulsa; another brother, Jim, of St. Louis, and a sister, Becky Kuenz of Boulder, Colo.
      