
        Ezra Taft Benson, the president of the Mormon Church since 1985 and a Secretary of Agriculture in the Eisenhower Administration, died yesterday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 94.
        Mr. Benson, who had been in frail health in recent years and rarely appeared in public, died of congestive heart failure, said Bruce Olsen, a spokesman for the church. Mr. Benson suffered a broken hip several years ago when he was standing near a horse and it rolled over on him.
        Mr. Benson took charge of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints nine years ago, as it was emerging as one of the world's fastest-growing denominations. It was also enjoying great prosperity (to remain in good standing, Mormons must donate 10 percent of their income to the church), and its political influence was growing, particularly among conservative Republicans. Indeed, Mr. Benson once questioned whether it was possible to be a good Mormon and a liberal Democrat at the same time.
        Mr. Benson became well known in the 1960's and 1970's for his opposition to the civil rights and the women's movements and for his association with the John Birch Society. In 1980 he angered liberal Mormons when he declared in a speech that the church might begin endorsing political candidates, something it had not done since its leaders told Mormons to choose President Herbert Hoover over his Democratic challenger, Franklin D. Roosevelt, in 1932. Mission Work in Youth
        Mr. Benson's family had been prominent in the church for generations, and he himself had been committed to its cause since his days as a youthful missionary in the British Isles. He had been next in line to the leadership since 1973, when he became president of the Council of the Twelve Apostles, the second-ranking Mormon Board after the First Presidency, consisting of the church president and his two-man council.
        The council chose its senior member, Mr. Benson, as president of the church in 1985, on the death of 90-year-old Spencer W. Kimball, who had himself been in frail health for several years. As president of the council, Mr. Benson was in line to become president of the church; church officials said the selection of anyone else would have been a departure from established procedure. The current president of the council and probable successor to Mr. Benson is Howard W. Hunter, 86.
        Mr. Benson was made leader of the Mormon Church at a time of some uncertainty and turmoil for the Mormon Church at large and in its headquarters in Salt Lake City.
        Mr. Kimball, the president for 12 years, was widely regarded as a progressive force for modernization in a church distinguished by conservative values.
        Under Mr. Benson, membership in the church grew to 8.7 million, church officials said. A Professor of Agriculture
        Mr. Benson, a professor of agriculture who founded an organization of farm cooperatives, came to national prominence in 1953 as Secretary of Agriculture in the Eisenhower Administration. He was one of the few Cabinet-level appointees to remain in office for both Eisenhower terms, an accomplishment attributed to Mr. Benson's doggedness in the face of opposition. On a trip to Sioux Falls, S.D., he was pelted with eggs by farmers. Testifying before the Senate Agriculture Committee, he was hectored; it took him an hour and a half to get through a three-page statement. His only displays of anger were a reddening of his neck and a defiantly outward thrust of his lower lip.
        In later years he was openly critical of Eisenhower's views, calling them socialistic. He also condemned welfare programs as "galloping socialism" leading to Communism.
        After leaving Washington, he became closely associated with, but never joined, the John Birch Society, a right-wing political organization for which his son Reed eventually served as press officer.
        In the 1960's and 1970's, Mr. Benson accused the civil rights movement of advancing Communist causes, called the graduated income tax "Marxist" and criticized detente with the Soviet Union.
        He was outspoken in his belief that a Mormon woman's place was her home. "The undermining of the home and family is on the increase, with the devil anxiously working to displace the father as the head of the home and create rebellion among the children," he said in 1975. "Working mothers should remember that their children usually need more of a mother than of money." Son of Early Settlers
        Ezra Taft Benson was born Aug. 4, 1899, in Whitney, Idaho. His parents were among the early settlers of southern Idaho. He was also the great-grandson of Ezra T. Benson, a church pioneer who trekked to the valley of the Great Salt Lake in 1847 with Brigham Young after Joseph Smith, founder of the church, was slain in Illinois.
        Mr. Benson was distantly related to President William Howard Taft and his son Robert A. Taft, the Republican Senator from Ohio.
        As a young man, he was active in scouting and church auxiliaries. He served as a missionary in Britain for two years, until 1923, when he enrolled at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah. He graduated with honors in 1927, and the university's yearbook, The Banyan, named him "most likely to succeed."
        His missionary work also opened the door for him to the Mormon campus's most prestigious church club, the Young Doctors of Divinity. Adviser to Roosevelt
        Mr. Benson earned a master's degree in farm economics at Iowa State College, now Iowa State University. He served for a year as a county extension marketing agent in Idaho before taking charge of a newly established Department of Agricultural Economics and Marketing at the University of Idaho at Boise.
        Working in a time of economic hardship for farmers, he helped form the Idaho Cooperative Council, and in 1939 he was elected executive secretary of the National Council of Farmers Cooperatives. In World War II he was a member of an agricultural advisory board for President Roosevelt.
        Meanwhile, Mr. Benson continued his church work. In 1943 he became a member of the Council of Twelve Apostles.
        His wife, Flora Smith Amussen Benson, died in 1992 after 65 years of marriage. Mr. Benson is survived by their two sons, Reed of Provo and Mark of Salt Lake City; four daughters, Barbara Walker of Calgary, Alberta, Beverly Parker of Salt Lake City, Bonnie Madsen of Littleton, Colo., and Beth Burton of Frankfurt; 34 grandchildren and 55 great-grandchildren.
      