
        Sonny Sharrock, a major figure in free-jazz guitar, died on Thursday at his home in Ossining, N.Y. He was 53.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his manager, Mary McGuire.
        Mr. Sharrock was a pioneering guitarist in the free-jazz movement of the late 1960's. His guitar solos streaked and clanged, using blistering speed and raw noise to create music that had both the openness of jazz and the power of rock.
        He performed with many important musicians in both the jazz avant-garde of the 1960's and the downtown New York improvisation scene of the 1980's, and he has been cited as an influence by guitarists from Carlos Santana to Elliott Sharp. First Love: the Saxophone
        Mr. Sharrock was born in Ossining and sang in a doo-wop group as a teen-ager. He decided to become a jazz musician after hearing Miles Davis's "Kind of Blue" in the late 1950's.
        Because he had asthma, he ruled out playing his favorite instrument, the saxophone, and instead took up the guitar in 1960. His idols were saxophonists, however, and he worked to transfer the expressiveness of improvisers like John Coltrane, Ornette Coleman and Albert Ayler to his guitar. He developed a personal vocabulary of overdriven amplifiers, high-speed tremolos and percussive picking on muffled strings. Like Ayler, he often built solos atop resonant melodies based in folk and blues.
        Mr. Sharrock moved to New York City in 1965 and worked as a sideman with musicians including Pharoah Sanders, Cannonball Adderley and Miles Davis. In 1966, he recorded the influential album "Tauhid" with Mr. Sanders, and he went on to record with Wayne Shorter and Don Cherry; he appears, uncredited, on "Yesternow," from Miles Davis's 1970 album "A Tribute to Jack Johnson."
        From 1967 to 1974, he worked regularly with a group led by the flutist Herbie Mann, which also included the singer Linda Sharrock, who was then his wife. In the mid-1970's, the Sharrocks started their own group, Sharrock. They were divorced in 1978. 'The Terror and the Beauty'
        In 1980, Mr. Sharrock began working with the producer Bill Laswell, who introduced him to New York's experimental downtown improvisers. He appears on Material's 1982 album "Memory Serves," produced by Mr. Laswell, who also produced Mr. Sharrock's albums "Guitar" and "Seize the Rainbow." Mr. Sharrock was a member of the high-powered improvising group Last Exit with Mr. Laswell on bass, Ronald Shannon Jackson on drums and Peter Brotzmann on saxophone.
        He also led his own groups, which performed regularly at jazz and rock clubs, and he recorded albums in the United States and Europe. "In the last few years," he told an interviewer in 1991, "I've been trying to find a way for the terror and the beauty to live together in one song. I know it's possible."
        Mr. Sharrock is survived by his wife, Nettie, and his daughter, Jasmyn, both of Ossining.
      