
        Prof. Jewell M. Garrelts, a bridge engineer who taught at Columbia University for 45 years and helped design the Rainbow Bridge over Niagara Gorge, died Friday at the Dunrovan Health Center in Cresskill, N.J. A longtime resident of Tenafly, N.J., he was 90.
        He had had several strokes in the last few years, his family said.
        Professor Garrelts also worked on the designs for the Marine Parkway Bridge over Rockaway Inlet in Queens, St. Georges Bridge over the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal in Delaware, bridges on the New England Thruway and several movable bridges and other structures. At his death he was Renwick Professor emeritus of Civil Engineering at Columbia.
        He was born in McPherson, Kan., and graduated as a civil engineer from Valparaiso University in Indiana in 1924. He came to Columbia as a graduate student and instructor in 1927, advanced to professor and chairman of civil engineering in 1946 and was named Renwick Professor in 1952.
        Professor Garrelts served as chairman of the Department of Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at the School of Engineering and Applied Science from 1946 to 1972. As the school's associate dean from 1957 to 1972 he was in charge of graduate engineering studies and brought in engineers from all over the United States and Europe to strengthen Columbia's standing in the field.
        After his formal retirement in 1972 he continued to work as a special assistant to the dean and liaison between Columbia's engineering school and 60 other colleges and universities. In addition to his academic career, he was associated with several engineering firms as a bridge designer and associate engineer. He also served as an adviser to public-policy organizations.
        In 1972 he received the Egleston Medal from the Columbia Engineering School Alumni Association.
        Professor Garrelts's wife of 65 years, Esther Strickland Garrelts, died in 1990. He is survived by two sons, Robert J. of Cresskill and William A. of Palm Harbor, Fla.; a daughter, Lois McManus of Tarpon Springs, Fla.; a brother, Floyd, of Thermopolis, Wyo.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      