
        Dr. R. Lee Clark, who helped build a small university hospital in Houston into one of the world's foremost cancer centers, died there on Tuesday.  He was 87 and lived in Houston.
        The cause was complications after colon-cancer surgery, said the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, which Dr. Clark guided for 32 years.
        Dr. Clark's association with M. D. Anderson began in 1946 when he was named its first full-time director and surgeon in chief. At the time, the hospital was in a converted house on an estate south of downtown Houston. Surplus Army barracks were added for out-patient clinics, an operating room, a laboratory and temporary inpatient beds. Plans for a permanent hospital went on the drawing boards.
        Under his direction, the original 234-bed M. D. Anderson opened in 1954 in the Texas Medical Center, and three major expansions during Dr. Clark's tenure put the complex among the world's largest cancer centers. His title changed from director to president in 1968, and he retired in 1978.
        Two years later, he was named University of Texas System Professor of Surgery and Oncology. Helped Shape Cancer Act
        Randolph Lee Clark, known as Lee since his boyhood, was born in Hereford, Tex. He earned a chemical engineering degree at the University of South Carolina. He changed his mind about a career and earned the money for medical school while working for a chemical research company. He received his medical degree from the Medical College of Virginia in 1932 and went to the University of Paris and the University of Minnesota for further studies.
        He spent two years in private practice in Jackson, Miss., and four years in the Air Force in the Air Surgeon General's Office before assuming his duties at the fledgling M. D. Anderson Hospital.
        Dr. Clark helped shape the National Cancer Act of 1971, which designated M. D. Anderson as one of three comprehensive cancer centers in the nation. Under Presidents Richard M. Nixon, Gerald R. Ford and Jimmy Carter he served as senior scientist on a three-member President's Cancer Panel that oversaw implementation of the act.
        He also was a past president of the American Cancer Society. He continued to travel internationally until a stroke in 1987.
        Dr. Clark's wife of 61 years, Dr. Bertha M. Davis-Clark, an anesthesiologist, died last year. He is survived by a daughter, Rabia Lynn Clark of Austin, Tex.; a son, Randolph Lee 3d, of Bisbee, Ariz.; a sister, Irene Stiles of Victoria, Tex., and three grandchildren.
      