
        The Rev. Vincent G. Potter, a scholar of philosophy and the first holder of the Loyola Chair in the Humanities at Fordham University, died on Tuesday in Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 65 and lived at Loyola-Faber Hall, a Jesuit residence on the Rose Hill campus in the Bronx.
        The cause was pulmonary failure, Fordham said.
        Father Potter, the author of 10 books and scores of articles, joined Fordham's philosophy department in 1965. He was appointed a full professor in 1974 and served as the university's vice president for academic affairs from 1988 to 1992. That year a $1 million gift from Fordham's Jesuit community created the Loyola Chair.
        His writings covered such matters as the work of Charles S. Peirce, the American philosopher and mathematician; epistemology, the history of modern philosophy and the philosophy of religion. Last year, Fordham University Press published three books by him, "On Understanding Understanding: A Philosophy of Knowledge"; "Readings in Epistemology: Aquinas, Bacon, Galileo, Descartes, Locke, Berkeley, Hume"; and "On the Eternity of the World by John Pecham, O.F.M."
        He edited Fordham Press's new series on American philosophy and was recently appointed executive consultant to the Peirce Edition at Indiana University, Indianapolis. Since 1985 he also served as editor in chief of International Philosophical Quarterly. Was Yale Scholar and Teacher
        A native of Manhattan, Father Potter graduated magna cum laude in sacred theology from the Facultes St. Albert de Louvain, a Jesuit center of learning in Belgium, and received a doctorate in philosophy at Yale University, where he held a Kent scholarship and was awarded the Mary Cady Tew Prize as ranking scholar. He entered the Society of Jesus in 1947 and was ordained in 1960.
        Before he joined the Fordham faculty, he taught philosophy at Yale and at St. Peter's College in Jersey City. He also lectured and held visiting professorships at universities worldwide. He was a past rector of the Jesuit community at Fordham, a member of Fordham's Board of Trustees and president of the Charles S. Peirce Society.
        Father Potter is survived by a brother, Dr. Charles D. of Hawthorne, N.Y.
      