
        Clement Greenberg, the art critic who propelled the career of Jackson Pollock and helped to establish Abstract Expressionism as a major artistic movement, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 85 years old.
        He died of complications from a four-year bout with emphysema, his daughter, Sarah Dora Greenberg, said. He had been taken to the hospital from his apartment in Manhattan on Monday because he had trouble breathing.
        Mr. Greenberg's career spanned more than 50 years, and he became something of a legend in his own right. He was one of the last survivors of the group of artists and critics associated with the Abstract Expressionist movement, and his advocacy of artists like Mr. Pollock was crucial to the movement's coming of age and has been documented in the art histories of the period. His adamantly formal approach to looking at art was so closely linked to his name that it was often referred to as Greenberg formalism. 'Most Ungrateful Form'Xxx
        But he was also known for having kept art journalism itself to a high standard of engagement and responsibility. He felt that it had to be as original as the art it talked about and to be pointedly discriminating.
        "Art criticism," Mr. Greenberg once wrote, "is about the most ungrateful form of 'elevated' writing I know of. It may also be one of the most challenging -- if only because so few people have done it well enough to be remembered -- but I'm not sure the challenge is worth it."
        Born in the Bronx in 1909, he grew up in Norfolk, Va., and Brooklyn. He was the oldest son of a Russian Jewish immigrant, who owned a clothing store. By the time he was 4, he drew with great zeal, propelled by his own ability to bring objects and people to life.
        But his parents did not share his love of art or even appreciate it for that matter. Later in life, he described them as "barbarians" who threw away his every scrap of art work -- and who perhaps unwittingly laid the foundation for their son's theorizing on the mutual antagonism between art and the average person. A FVederal Customs ClerkXxx
        After graduating from Syracuse University in 1930, where he majored in literature, Mr. Greenberg traveled to New York City, where he settled. It was the height of the Depression and Mr. Greenberg was unable to find any work. So he decided to teach himself Latin and German and was eventually hired to translate books.
        A pivotal moment in this period of his life came in 1937 when he was hired as a customs clerk by the Federal Government. Assigned to the Appraisers Store Division of the Customs Service on Varick Street, he began to spend idle hours at the office composing essays on culture. This work eventually found its way into the pages of The Paris Review, the unofficial mouthpiece for a group of thinkers known as the New York Intellectuals.
        Mr. Greenberg emerged on the American art scene at a time when it was still relatively small and critics belonged to the insular world of the artists themselves. Among them was an obscure painter named Jackson Pollock, who was earning very little money on the Works Progress Administration Federal Art Project.
        Mr. Greenberg later in life said that he remembered liking Mr. Pollock the first time they were introduced by Lee Krasner, the painter and Mr. Pollock's wife. (But he once acknowledged that he was troubled by the artist's alcoholism and said that Pollock was unable to paint when he was drunk.) Abstract ExpressionismXxx
        Mr. Greenberg came to lavish great praise on Mr. Pollock's work, though very few people noticed at first. But he persisted and he became linked with Mr. Pollock the same way that the French critic Felix Fenon was to George Seurat and the British critic John Ruskin was to J. M. W. Turner.
        He also went on to become one of the most influential supporters of the legendary Abstract Expressionist period, turning on it his formidable eye and his brisk and lean style of writing. He did not give the movement unqualified support, to be sure, and confessed that he himself had underestimated a number of artists in the period. Of Theodoros Stamos, he once said, "I scorched his show and I was wrong. You keep on learning."
        He once summarized the work of an art critic this way: "Let nothing come between you and art, nothing, no ideas, nothing. The idea is to see enough, that's how you acquire taste. Don't even look at the name on the label."
        But he was also hard-pressed to explain how he arrived at esthetic judgements. "When it comes to explaining esthetic verdicts," he said, "far better minds than mine have haven't gotten anywhere near it. When something really works, you're helpless. The toughest part of art criticism is praising, because then you use the same words all the time. You can say the same thing in praise of a Bouguereau as you can of a Titian. When you don't like something, the words come more readily." Art Household WordsXxx
        In addition to providing written criticisms, Mr. Greenberg was an avid visitor of studios, where he would routinely offer artists advice. His comments were often simple. "You say, 'That's good' or 'That's not good enough,' " he said of his visits. "But you never say, 'That's bad' in an artist's studio."
        Although he is still a household word in many art world households, he had written little since the early 1960's and had primarily lectured outside New York City.
        In addition to his daughter, Sarah, he is survived by his wife, Janice Van Horne Greenberg and his brother, Martin Greenberg of the Cobble Hill section of Brooklyn.
        Correction:  May 21, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary in some editions on May 8 about the art critic Clement Greenberg misstated the name of a magazine that published cultural essays he wrote while a customs clerk. It was the Partisan Review. The article also misspelled the name of a French art critic. He was Felix Feneon.
      