
        Jim Finks, the New Orleans Saints executive who moved in pro football from player to coach to general manager to club president and almost to commissioner of the National Football League, died Sunday night at his home in Metairie, La., outside New Orleans. He was 66.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, according to Rusty Kasmiersky, a Saints spokesman.
        Finks, who learned a year ago that he had lung cancer, had been too ill to continue as president and general manager of the Saints. But the club's owner, Tom Benson, had retained him as a consultant while leaving his positions open.
        Finks was the choice of the nominating committee to succeed Pete Rozelle as N.F.L. commissioner in 1989, but Paul Tagliabue was chosen instead on the sixth ballot after an acrimonious three-day meeting in Cleveland. A group of younger club owners objected not so much to Finks, but to the idea that the senior owners were dictating their choice of commissioner.  Architect of Teams
        So Finks returned to New Orleans, where he had been president and a minority owner of the Saints since 1986. Under a new coach, Jim Mora, who Finks had hired, the 20-year-old franchise had its first winning team and trip to the playoffs in 1987.
        Finks had similarly hired new coaches and built winning teams at Minnesota, where he was the Vikings' general manager from 1965 to 1974, and then at Chicago, where he directed the Bears' operations for nine years.
        In 1984, he spent a brief interlude in major league baseball as president of the Chicago Cubs. Differences with the Tribune Company, which owned the team, ended that job.  A Minor League Catcher
        Finks came to the N.F.L. in 1949 from Tulsa University as the Pittsburgh Steelers' 12th-round draft choice. Combining humility with humor, as was his habit, Finks said in later years he was a memorable quarterback for the Steelers only because, in 1955, "They cut Johnny Unitas and kept me."
        Unitas went on to become a Hall of Fame quarterback with the Baltimore Colts. But Art Rooney, the Pittsburgh owner, differed on Finks's ability as a player. He said of Finks, "We had some terrible teams then, and they would have been a lot worse without Jim."
        Finks was a native of Salem, Ill., and a renowned high school athlete, who later was a catcher in the Cincinnati Reds' farm system between pro football seasons.
        In 1956, Finks turned to football coaching as an assistant at Notre Dame. The next year, he was in the Canadian Football League as an assistant coach and soon the general manager of the Calgary Stampeders.
        He obliged unhappy athletes, trading Fran Tarkenton to the Giants in 1967 and trading back for him in 1972 when Tarkenton became disenchanted in New York. Both times the Vikings got the best of the deals and followed up with Super Bowl teams.
        Finks also served the N.F.L. in other ways, as an early negotiator with the players' union, as a member of the Management Council and later as chairman of the competition committee.
        He is survived by his wife, Maxine, and four sons, Jim Jr., David, Dan and Tom.
      