
        Heinz-Werner Meyer, the leader of Germany's labor federation in the turbulent years since reunification, died on Monday at a clinic in Siegburg, near Bonn. He was 61.
        He died of a heart attack, said a spokesman for the German Union Federation, or Deutsche Gewerkschaftsbund, known as DGB. He had been admitted to the clinic last week after collapsing at a meeting with Chancellor Helmut Kohl.
        Mr. Meyer's conciliatory style won him wide respect, and his success in guiding the union federation at a time of rising unemployment seemed to have assured him of re-election at a convention set for next month.
        Upon learning of his death, political figures representing all major parties praised his work and character. Born in Hamburg
        "He never sought to destroy those with whom he disagreed," Labor Minister Norbert Blum said in a radio interview. Johannes Rau, the presidential candidate of the opposition Social Democrats, said Mr. Meyer was "heart and soul at the side of the weak."
        Mr. Meyer was born in Hamburg and became a coal miner at the age of 16, a few years after the postwar division of Germany. He attended night school and received a degree in economics in 1955.
        He also joined the coal miners' union. He rose through the ranks and was elected to lead the union in 1985.
        Five years later, he was elected to lead the DGB, an umbrella organization of West Germany's 16 trade unions, which counts about eight million people as members.  Worked for Labor Peace
        Mr. Meyer was also a lifelong Social Democrat and represented the party in the German Parliament from 1975 to 1985.
        During the years when he was rising in the union movement, West Germany was in a period of sustained economic expansion. He supported a series of labor-management agreements that assured peace by granting workers a growing share of the economic pie and representation on companies' managing boards.
        Mr. Meyer's reputation as a negotiator who preferred compromise to confrontation helped propel him to the DGB chairmanship when the German economy began to slow. Workers looked to him to win contracts that would protect their jobs in a shrinking labor market.
        Although individual unions are responsible for negotiating contracts in Germany, DGB leaders play an important behind-the-scenes role in shaping their strategies. Like his predecessors, Mr. Meyer also wielded political influence as the leading spokesman for the cause of labor. Loss of Members
        As a result of the recession in western Germany and the economic collapse in the east after unification in 1990, the DGB lost 785,000 members in 1992 and 690,000 more last year.
        Recently Mr. Meyer had been pushing a plan to merge some of the smaller unions under his authority into larger blocs, in the hope of increasing their political influence and reducing financial losses stemming from the drop in union membership.  At a May Day rally in Hanover this year, he appealed to the Government to commit to assuring a job for every German who wanted one.
        Mr. Meyer is survived by his wife and three grown children.
      