
        William S. Carlson, who served as the second president of the State University of New York and as president of three other universities, died on Sunday at his home in Belleair Bluffs, Fla. He was 88.
        He died of lung cancer, said his wife, Claire Callan Carlson.
        During his long career in higher education, Dr. Carlson also headed the University of Delaware, the University of Vermont and the University of Toledo in Ohio. In addition, he was an expert on the Arctic and the author of several books.
        He was born on Nov. 18, 1905, in Ironwood, Mich., and attended the University of Michigan, from which he received a bachelor's degree in 1930, a master's degree in 1932 and a doctorate in philosophy in 1938. Air Route to Britain
        In World War II he served in the Air Force, rising to the rank of colonel and helping to establish air bases and an air route to Britain over Canada, Greenland and Iceland.
        After the war he became president of the University of Delaware, serving from 1946 through 1950. During his tenure at Delaware the university broke down racial barriers, awarding blacks, for the first time, an undergraduate degree and a Ph.D.
        Dr. Carlson was president of the University of Vermont from 1950 to 1952, and drew considerable attention to his job when he wrote an article describing it as "the roughest profession." He said the average college president had a tenure of just five years, a length of time not much longer than college presidents serve today. Rival to California System
        In 1952, when Dr. Carlson became president of the State University of New York, the system had been in existence for only two and a half years. It consisted of 22 schools and colleges and 11 two-year technical schools, with 33,000 full-time students and 14,000 part-time students.
        In assuming the presidency of the State University, Dr. Carlson headed an institution that was not sure whether it wanted to be a top-flight university system rivaling California's, or one that would offer fringe programs while the real job of higher education went to New York's private institutions.
        Over the sometimes vociferous opposition of the board of regents, Dr. Carlson and his supporters gradually built SUNY into one of the nation's pre-eminent state universities.
        He left New York in 1958 to become president of the University of Toledo. In his 14-year tenure there, the school expanded from a small municipal campus to a state university. Dr. Carlson retired in 1972.
        Besides his wife he is survived by a daughter, Dr. Kristin Rowe Carlson of Worcester, Mass. His first wife, Mary Jane Rowe Carlson, died in 1981.
      