
        Lewis B. Puller Jr., who won the Pulitzer Prize for chronicling his fight against despair and alcoholism after he lost both legs while serving in Vietnam, died this afternoon. He was 48 years old.
        A spokesman for the police in Fairfax County, Va., said Mr. Puller died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound at his home in Mount Vernon, Va., just outside Washington.
        His wife, Linda T. Puller, a member of the Virginia House of Delegates, was in Richmond today for a one-day session of the Legislature. Friends said the couple had recently separated.
        Mr. Puller's book, "Fortunate Son: The Healing of a Vietnam Vet" (Grove Weidenfeld, 1991), was written as a tribute to his father, the late Gen. Lewis B. (Chesty) Puller, the most decorated marine in the history of the corps. The book won the Pulitzer Prize for biography in 1992. Journey From Alienation
        On winning the award, Mr. Puller told interviewers that he planned to write a second book about the life of Senator Bob Kerrey, Democrat of Nebraska, who met Mr. Puller while both men recuperated from their war wounds at the Philadelphia Naval Hospital in 1968.
        Mr. Kerrey said tonight: "He was cut in half. He should have died in the hospital. He had to will himself back to life. Tragically, in the end he was not able to give himself the lift he gave to all those who read his book."
        William Styron, who reviewed the book for The New York Times, called it "a dark and corrosive autobiography." Mr. Puller described it as an account of his journey from alienation to reconciliation with a nation that had sent him to war.
        In the book, he told of stepping on an enemy land mine while he was a Marine combat platoon leader in Vietnam. "I felt as if I had been airborne forever," he wrote. "I had no idea that the pink mist that engulfed me had been caused by the vaporization of most of my right and left legs." Wounds That Never Healed
        In public speeches and in conversations with friends, he said the physical and emotional wounds never healed. Still, he called his book "an affirmation of life -- there are second chances."
        Tonight Mrs. Puller said in a statement: "To the list of names of victims of the Vietnam War, add the name of Lewis Puller. He suffered terrible wounds that never really healed.
        "In his struggle to recovery, we faced many troubled and painful times together. But today, I hope his friends and the family he loved so much will remember the wonderful moments he brought to our lives."
        Mr. Puller was awarded the Silver Star and two Purple Hearts, the Navy Commendation Medal and the Vietnam Cross of Gallantry.
        Lewis B. Puller Jr. was born in Camp Lejeune, N.C., in 1945. He graduated in 1967 from the College of William and Mary, where he also earned a law degree. In 1978, he ran unsuccessfully for Congress as a Democrat in Virginia.
        Since 1979 Mr. Puller worked as a senior lawyer in the Defense Department. At his death, he was on a leave of absence and working as a writer in residence at George Mason University in Fairfax, Va.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Puller is survived by a son, Lewis 3d, of Arizona; a daughter, Margaret, of Alaska;two sisters, Martha Downs of Alexandria, Va., and Virginia Dabney of Lexington, Va. A family friend said tonight that funeral plans had not been made.
      