
        Justice Paul J. Baisley of New York State Supreme Court, who made an important ruling in 1990 in litigation involving the protection of the Long Island Pine Barrens, died on Saturday at Huntington Hospital. He was 67 and a longtime resident of Huntington, L.I.
        He died after a brief illness, said his daughter Lisa.
        Justice Baisley, a Republican, was elected a Justice for the 10th Judicial District on Long Island in 1976 and re-elected in 1990. During most of his years on the bench he sat variously in Hauppauge and Riverhead, but in recent years he sat in Central Islip. Before becoming a judge, he was a partner in the Riverhead law firm of Smith, Finkelstein, Lundberg, Isler & Yakaboski, and was an expert in trusts and estates. Dismissed Barrens Lawsuit
        In November 1990, Justice Baisley dismissed a complex suit brought by the Long Island Pine Barrens Society, an environmental group, against the towns of Brookhaven, Southampton and Riverhead, and the Suffolk County Department of Health Services.
        "Justice Baisley was handed the largest environmental lawsuit in New York state history, and was the first judge to try to sort out a major conflict between environmental and development interests," said Richard L. Amper, Jr., the executive director of the society. "His early ruling very much resembled the final judicial verdict, by the state Court of Appeals, and led to much-needed legislation to protect the Barrens."
        The suit contended that an overall environmental impact study, concerning the effect of new construction on flora, fauna and groundwater, was necessary before more than 200 proposed new construction projects were allowed to go forward in most of the Pine Barrens.
        In dismissing the suit, Justice Baisley found that state environmental law did not require such an overall study. In March 1992, the Appellate Division overturned the judge's decision. But in November 1992, the State Court of Appeals declared that the building projects, which had been halted by the suit, could proceed without an overall environmental-impact study. At the same time, that court urged the State Legislature to fashion a plan to preserve the Pine Barrens' natural resources. The ruling led to the Pine Barrens Protection Act and the creation of a commission to protect the natural resources.
        Justice Baisley was born in Nyack, N.Y., and moved to Huntington with his family when he was 2 years old. He graduated from Huntington High School in 1944, served in the Army during World War II, graduated from Hunter College and Brooklyn Law School, and worked nine years in the Suffolk County Surrogate's Court.
        He was a member of the Suffolk County Legislature in the 1970's. He was also a trustee of the Vanderbilt Museum in Centerport, vice chairman of the Huntington Republican Committee and a member of the Suffolk County Charter Revision Commission.
        In addition to his daughter Lisa, of Huntington, he is survived by his wife of 41 years, the former Irene Clemm; another daughter, Anne Lee of Huntington; two sons, Paul L. Jr. and John, both of Huntington; 10 grandchildren; a sister, Barbara Kenny of Hartford; and a brother, Charles D. Baisley III of Sun City Center, Fla.
        A funeral Mass will be said at 9:45 A.M. on Tuesday in St. Patrick's Church on Main Street in Huntington.
      