
        W. Graham Claytor Jr., who ended a long career in the railroad industry by guiding Amtrak to a measure of prosperity, died yesterday at the Blake Memorial Hospital in Bradenton, Fla. Mr. Claytor, who lived in Washington and Holmes Beach, Fla., was 82.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Claytor retired last year as president and chairman of the national passenger railroad, which expanded its ridership and revenues during his 11-year tenure.
        He was credited with helping to revive the ailing railroad by many experts, and even some critics of its operations. By the time he retired, fares and other revenues covered 80 percent of Amtrak's expenses, up from 42 percent in 1980.
        Before retiring, Mr. Claytor predicted that Amtrak might be able to cover all of its operating costs, something that no national railroad system in the world does now, by the year 2000. Amtrak, formally known as the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, was created by Congress to take over the nation's failing passenger lines.
        Mr. Claytor and his managers patched together a network that eventually offered improved service, ticketing and reservations, and cut costs. Turning Railroad Around
        Stephen Moore, an economist with the Heritage Foundation, which has opposed Federal subsidies for Amtrak, complimented Mr. Claytor and his team, saying: "They have really turned that railroad around."
        The main hall at Washington's Union Station was named "Claytor Concourse" by Amtrak's board in recognition of Mr. Claytor's efforts to restore the historic station.
        He handed over the leadership of Amtrak last year to Thomas Downs, who called it "kind of a miracle" that Mr. Claytor kept Amtrak alive during a decade of hostile Administrations.
        Before joining Amtrak, Mr. Claytor had served from 1963 to 1977 as vice president, then president and finally chairman of the Southern Railway. At a time when many railroads were in financial straits, Southern thrived under Mr. Claytor's leadership. In 1982, Southern consolidated with the Norfolk and Western Railway to become Norfolk Southern.
        After his retirement from Southern, Mr. Claytor served from 1977 to 1979 as Secretary of the Navy. He also served in the Carter Administration as Acting Secretary of Transportation in 1979, and as Deputy Secretary of Defense from 1979 to 1981.
        He also practiced law in Washington with the firm of Covington & Burling from 1938 to 1967, and again from 1981 to 1982.
        William Graham Claytor Jr. was born in 1912 in Roanoke, Va. He graduated from the University of Virginia, and in 1936 received a law degree from Harvard University, where he was president of the Harvard Law Review.
        He also served as a law clerk to Judge Learned Hand and Justice Louis D. Brandeis. He served in the Pacific as a Navy lieutenant commander during World War II. As commander of the Cecil J. Doyle, he was instrumental in the rescue of almost 100 American sailors from the cruiser Indianapolis after it was torpedoed by a Japanese submarine.
        Mr. Claytor is survived by his wife, Frances; a son, W. Graham 3d, of Alameda, Calif.; a daughter, Dr. Murray Claytor of Atlanta; a brother, Richard A., of Bethesda, Md., and two grandchildren. Another brother, Robert, the retired head of the Norfolk Southern railroad, died last year.
      