
        Gilbert Roland, a lean, dynamic and virile performer who began his career as a Latin lover in silent films and over four decades became one of Hollywood's ablest and most popular character actors, died on Sunday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 88.
        He had been suffering from cancer, said his wife, Guillermina.
        Mr. Roland was a native of Mexico whose father, paternal grandfather and a great-grandfather were matadors, originally in Spain. A self-taught performer who invariably wore a trim mustache, he approached competition with both bulls and tennis players with equal skill and determination. He was also a favorite subject of society writers in the early 1940's, when he was married to the actress Constance Bennett.
        Mr. Roland appeared in more than 100 movies, first as an extra or bit player, then as the debonair wooer of a generation of film goddesses and later as a stylish, witty and authoritative featured performer. His early films, which included Spanish-language movies, were mostly forgettable romantic comedies, but he increasingly won notice in roles like a persecuted fugitive in "The Last Train From Madrid" (1937), a duplicitous colonel in "Juarez" (1939) and a raffish pirate captain in "The Sea Hawk" (1940).
        After serving in the Army Air Forces in World War II, Mr. Roland took on a greater variety of roles. He portrayed a Cuban laborer with a poet's soul in "We Were Strangers" (1949), a malevolent ranch-squatter in "The Furies" (1950), a kindly village priest in "The Torch" (1950), an idolized matador in "The Bullfighter and the Lady" (1951) and a ruthless gangster in "My Six Convicts" (1952).
        He was a sympathetic confidant to children in "The Miracle of Our Lady of Fatima" (1952), a womanizing actor in "The Bad and the Beautiful" (1953), a robust fisherman in "Beneath the 12-Mile Reef" (1953), a gentle murder suspect in "The Midnight Story" (1957) and a skillful trapeze and high-wire performer in "The Big Circus" (1959). Family Was Forced to Flee
        Gilbert Roland was born in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, on Dec. 11, 1905, and named Luis Antonio Damaso de Alonso. One of six children of Spanish-born parents, he grew up in the shadow of the Mexican Revolution. When Pancho Villa began running all Spanish-born adults out of Ciudad Juarez, the family fled to El Paso, Tex.
        The mature-looking youth left home at 14 and made his way to Los Angeles, where he began working in films. He soon changed his name in honor of two favorite personalities, John Gilbert, the leading silent star, and Ruth Roland, a celebrated serial heroine.
        He slowly won larger parts and gained his first featured role at 20 in a campus comedy titled "The Plastic Age," starring Clara Bow. After several more supporting roles, he played opposite Norma Talmadge in a major dramatic film, "Camille," in 1927, becoming a leading man at 21. Stage 'Too Much Work'
        On the stage, he appeared with Jane Cowl, again in "Camille," in 1933, but he sought no more stage roles, calling them "too much work." Later, on television, he starred in two long-running westerns, "The Cisco Kid" and "The High Chaparral."
        Mr. Roland was modest about his acting talent, telling one interviewer: "I don't have any delusions about myself as an actor. I'm grateful for being able to find enough work all these years."
        He said he could sum up his philosophy with an English translation of his mother's dying words, which he had engraved on a gold ring he wore on his left little finger: "My son, don't rush yourself, don't worry yourself, good-bye, my soul."
        His career seemed to founder after World War II, but the director John Huston revived it by offering him an important role in "We Were Strangers." "I seemed to click all over again," Mr. Roland said, adding: "If Huston hadn't had faith to cast me in his picture, no one would have considered me for 'The Bullfighter and the Lady,' and I might be back where I started as a kid, selling cushions at the Juarez arena."
        He became a United States citizen in 1942 but continually sought to enhance the image of Mexican-Americans in films and on television. But he did not join any media lobbying group, explaining, "I'm an individualist who gets things accomplished in my own way." He said he was a lucky man to have "the blood of Spain, the heart of Mexico and the freedom of America."
        Mr. Roland had two daughters, Lorinda and Christina Consuelo, known as Gyl, by Constance Bennett. from whom he was divorced in the mid-1940's. In 1954, he married Guillermina Cantu of Mexico City. In addition to his wife and daughters, Mr. Roland is survived by his brother, Chico Day.
      