
        Henry Morgan, the scalpel-tongued satirist who became the legendary bad boy of radio in the 1940's and went on to appear on such television panel shows as "I've Got a Secret," died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Joan Harris, a spokeswoman for the family. His survivors include his wife, the former Karen Sorensen, whom he married in 1978, and a son by another liaison, Steve Robinson of Los Angeles.
        Mr. Morgan earned strong critical notices when he used no script and a few notes and ad libbed his way through his broadcasts. He greatly admired the work of Fred Allen and Robert Benchley; he was unpredictable, iconoclastic, derisive about the media in which he worked.
        Those who worked with him say he was frequently insubordinate to the broadcast executives for whom he worked and unfailingly kind to those who worked for him. He was also downright insolent and pointedly disloyal to his sponsors. Mr. Morgan always bit the hand that fed him.
        In his radio monologues, he would sometimes bait the pharmaceutical industry when he talked about the town of More, Utah. It had two doctors, Mr. Morgan said, explaining, "This led to the famous ad which begins, 'More doctors recommend . . .' " Taunting the Sponsors
        A sponsor in the 1940's was Oh! Henry, the candy bar, whose executives mistakenly thought that Mr. Morgan would be generously inclined toward a namesake snack. "Yes, Oh! Henry is a meal in itself," Mr. Morgan told his radio audience one evening. "But you eat three meals of Oh! Henrys and your teeth will fall out." On another broadcast, Mr. Morgan said that if children were fed enough of such candy bars, they would "get sick and die." The makers of Oh! Henry withdrew.
        In 1933, while an announcer for WCAU in Philadelphia, he had the names of station executives included in the script for a broadcast about missing persons. "It was days before they discovered it," Mr. Morgan said gleefully after WCAU let him go.
        Parents were treated much the same way. Once in 1947 he asked parents to step out of the room, then advised children to run away from home and become smugglers. "It's exciting, it's healthy, it's a wonderful life," he told them. "Get out now, before it's too late."
        Such oddments came in a time when the media had a sense of great propriety. His mordant humor did not sit well with certain people, and some of them concluded that he must be either a Communist or friendly to Communists. Mr. Morgan was amazed to find himself named in the book "Red Channels," which was issued in the 1950's and listed television entertainers thought to be either Communists or friendly to Communists.
        "Red Channels" had it all wrong, Mr. Morgan said, insisting on his apolitical nature. "I had always known that Herbert Hoover had single-handedly ruined the United States of America," he said, "but I didn't know how he managed to do it. I knew the country had recovered under Roosevelt, but I assumed it would have anyway under Don Ameche, Mrs. Lindbergh or Fats Waller." But in the 1950's he was blacklisted anyway, and despite a proven ability to attract audiences, had a hard time finding work.
        He did find work, nonetheless. He appeared frequently on "What's My Line?" the CBS quiz program. And in 1963 he became a regular panelist on "I've Got a Secret," starring Garry Moore, a job he kept for 14 years. He also appeared in summer stock and provided the voice for many commercials. A Joke About Parents
        Henry Morgan was born in New York City on March 31, 1915, and was named Henry Lerner von Ost Jr. He was one of two boys born to Henry von Ost and the former Eva Lerner; Alan Jay Lerner, the songwriter, was a cousin. The von Osts were divorced when the boys were very young, and Mr. Morgan seldom mentioned his father. He created much uncertainty about his beginnings, telling interviewers that he was of "mixed parentage": one parent was a man and the other a woman.
        He grew up in Washington Heights, attended the High School of Commerce for two years, then went to the Harrisburg Academy in Pennsylvania, where he graduated in 1931.
        In the 1930's he had announcing jobs in New York City, Duluth, Minn., and Boston. In the early 1940's, WOR gave him his own show called "Here's Morgan," which was interrupted when he enlisted in the Army Air Forces in 1943.
        After the war, he broadcast on ABC. In 1948, he made a movie, "So This Is New York." His autobiography, "Here's Morgan," is being published this year by Barricade Books. In its conclusion, Mr. Morgan says, "If it is true that God created man, by now he surely has laughed himself to death."
        Mr. Morgan, long a three-pack-a-day cigarette smoker, stopped making tobacco commercials in 1969 but never stopped smoking. "I implore other people not to start smoking or to give it up, even though I can't," he said. At one point, he took stock of his declining health, which included a heart attack, and compiled a fact sheet for his own obituary. He calculated that over his lifetime, he had consumed 500 pastrami sandwiches, 3,000 quarts of beer, 7,000 quarts of liquor and 1,697,000 cigarettes.
        There will be no funeral, but Ms. Harris said there would be a memorial party during the cocktail hour at Sardi's Restaurant on June 7.
      