
        Reuben Mattus, the Polish immigrant who stuck an umlaut on a nonsensical name and parlayed the exotic result into the multimillion-dollar company that sold Haagen-Dazs ice cream, died on Thursday in the North Broward Medical Center in Deerfield Beach, Fla. Mr. Mattus, who lived in Cresskill, N.J., was 81.
        Mr. Mattus suffered a heart attack while on vacation, said a daughter, Doris Hurley.
        Starting as a teen-ager and working first out of a horse and wagon, Mr. Mattus peddled the Mattus family's homemade ice cream for more than 30 years to small candy stores and neighborhood restaurants in the Bronx, expanding his business gradually. The financial rewards were modest until 1959, when he hit on the idea that would make his fortune.
        Correctly deducing that a large share of ice cream lovers in New York would be willing to pay for something they perceived as different, even evocative, and maybe better, Mr. Mattus came up with the name Haagen-Dazs, wanting it to sound cold, clear, luxurious and Danish. A map of Scandinavia was printed on its carton.
        But the name is not Danish, indeed the umlaut does not exist in Danish, and the name means as little in that language as it does in English. More Butterfat, Less Air
        But it was noticed. Haagen-Dazs quickly gained a reputation as a dense, richly textured, luxury ice cream, and many serious eaters were willing to pay more for what they perceived as the best, which had the added cachet of an unpronounceable name.
        Mr. Mattus also rode an emerging trend: consumer interest in gourmet foods with ingredients that were perceived as being high quality and natural. Haagen-Dazs and several competing ice creams introduced about the same time had more butterfat than Government standards required, with less air filler as well.
        "When I came out with Haagen-Dazs, the quality of ice cream had deteriorated to the point that it was just sweet and cold," Mr. Mattus said a few years ago. "Ice cream had become cheaper and cheaper, so I just went the opposite way."
        The product's popularity in supermarkets led to a coast-to-coast string of hundreds of franchise stores, and ultimately they spread as far as Tokyo. In 1983 Haagen-Dazs was sold to the Pillsbury Company. Sensing yet another trend in desserts, two years ago Mr. Mattus started marketing Mattus' Lowfat Ice Cream.
        Mr. Mattus is survived by his wife of 58 years, Rose; his daughters Doris Hurley of Westhampton Beach, L.I., and Natalie Salmore of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.; six grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      