
        Harry Levin, a founder of comparative literature as a discipline and a literary critic, died on Sunday at Youville Hospital in Cambridge, Mass., where he lived. He was 81.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said Harvard University.
        Mr. Levin, the Irving Babbitt professor emeritus of comparative literature at Harvard, played a central role in the development of Harvard's comparative-literature department for more than 50 years. He was also known for the breadth of his scholarship, ranging from what has been described as his ground-breaking work on Renaissance literature to 19th- and 20th-century American, English and French literature. Expert on Shakespeare and Joyce
        He was an authority on Shakespeare and the author of many books, including "James Joyce: A Critical Introduction." It was published in 1941, and was considered the first literary criticism to address Joyce's work.
        He was also known as an extraordinary and demanding teacher; his courses in Shakespeare routinely drew as many as 500 students; another course, "Joyce, Proust and Mann," prompted students to plan their entire course load around it.
        "Harry Levin was one of the brilliant, protean and responsive literary minds of this century," said Neil L. Rudenstine, the president of Harvard and a former student of Mr. Levin's.  "He was a person guided by his extraordinary sensibility, by his ability to grasp intuitively the essence of a particular writer or work."
        Mr. Levin was born in Minneapolis on July 18, 1912. He graduated summa cum laude from Harvard in 1933, with a bachelor of arts degree. He received his first teaching appointment at Harvard in 1939, as an instructor in English. He became a professor of English and comparative literature.  With Emeritus Status
        In 1960, he was named the Irving Babbitt professor of comparative literature, serving in that capacity until 1983, when he was given emeritus status.
        Surviving are his wife, Elena; his daughter, Marina Frederiksen of Cambridge, and two grandchildren, Carl and Tatiana. A memorial service at Harvard is planned for the fall.
      