
        Marv Throneberry, who became a symbol of the futility of one the most tragicomic teams in baseball, the 1962 New York Mets, died of cancer on Thursday night. He was 60.
        Throneberry, who was nicknamed "Marvelous Marv" during his career as a first baseman, died at his home in Fisherville, Tenn., a rural community about 22 miles east of Memphis.
        The Mets team for which Throneberry played was the first in the history of the franchise. It was a patchwork of over-the-hill veterans, in-their-prime underachievers and not-yet-ready castoffs from the more established major league teams.
        The Mets won 40 times, lost 120 times and no team ever lost more games in a season. Oddly enough, that season was Throneberry's best. He hit 16 home runs, drove in 49 runs and had a batting average of .238. Symbol for the '62 Mets
        But it was impossible to talk about the folly of the 1962 Mets without mentioning Throneberry, whose ineptness afield was matched by his shortcomings as a base runner.
        In a game against the Chicago Cubs, he hit what appeared to be a game-winning triple with the bases loaded and two outs. The problem was that everybody in the dugout noticed that he missed touching first base. When the Cubs' pitcher tossed the ball to the first baseman, the umpire called Throneberry out. The inning ended and the runs didn't count. Casey Stengel, the grizzled manager of the Mets, couldn't believe it and began arguing with the first-base umpire. As they exchanged words, another umpire walked over and said, "Casey, I hate to tell you this, but he also missed second."
        Not surprisingly, whenever Stengel lamented, "Can't anybody here play this game?" the target of his plea often was Throneberry.
        Marvin Throneberry was a star baseball player at South Side High School in Memphis, where he made the all-city team during two seasons in the early 1950's. He got his first break in May 1952, when the Yankees signed him for their farm team. (The slugging young first baseman had already turned down an offer from the Boston Red Sox, the team his older brother, Faye Throneberry, played for.)
        Marv Throneberry's major league career began with the Yankees in 1958 -- managed by Stengel under more successful conditions. Throneberry wound up playing for four teams. He was with the Yankees in 1958 and 1959, including an appearance in the 1958 World Series. He spent 1960 and part of 1961 with the Kansas City A's before joining the Baltimore Orioles in 1961.
        He started 1962 with Baltimore, but played in only nine games. He joined the Mets later that year and played in New York until he retired in 1963. He hit .237 during his career with 53 home runs and 170 runs batted in.
        After he retired, Throneberry was probably best known for appearing in several Miller Lite beer commercials with more well-known athletes, saying, "I still don't know why they asked me to do this commercial."
        In addition to his brother, Faye, he is survived by his wife, Dixie; three daughters, Gail Brewer of Pleasant Hill, Calif., Sandra Clement and Lorie Throneberry, both of Rossville, Tenn.; two sons, Gil Throneberry of Fisherville and Jody Throneberry of Eads, Tenn.; 10 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      