
        Bishop Joseph Aloysius Durick, who emerged as a strong voice for civil rights in the segregated South despite opposition from his tradition-bound congregation and other members of the clergy, died on Sunday at his home in Bessemer, Ala. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer, according to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nashville, which he served as Bishop from 1969 to 1975.
        Bishop Durick had the image of an amiable country vicar, so much so that the newspapers called him "the happy priest." But, prodded by the Second Vatican Council and the moral suasion of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., he came to have a troubled conscience on civil rights, even though his views were shared at first by few of his white peers.
        In Tennessee, Bishop Durick put in place decrees of Vatican II that were intended to eliminate social inequities. He drew national notice with his stand for an end to racial divisions and for compassion for the poor and others left out of the mainstream, a position that drew protests in his diocese.
        He began his ministry as a conformist cleric. Before 1963, he evinced little concern for disenfranchised blacks. At age 40, in 1955, he became one of the youngest bishops in the country when Pope Pius XII appointed him as Auxiliary Bishop in the Diocese of Mobile-Birmingham, Ala.
        He was in Birmingham when racial antagonisms and protests came to a boil in 1963. He and a handful of white colleagues called on Dr. King and "outsiders" to desist and let the courts work toward integration. King's Famous Response
        Dr. King, in jail by then, responded with a long letter to "my dear fellow clergymen" to explain that blacks could wait no longer. He voiced disappointment in the white priests, ministers and rabbis, saying they should be "among our strongest allies." Dr. King wrote, "All too many have been more cautious than courageous and have remained silent behind the anesthetizing security of stained glass windows." His "Letter from Birmingham Jail" has probably been reprinted more than anything else he wrote.
        "The real message in the letter didn't hit home until later," Bishop Durick said in 1969.
        Another turning point for Bishop Durick came as a result of Vatican II, convened by Pope John XXIII in 1962 and continued by his successor, Pope Paul VI, until 1965. "The message we got from Vatican II," the Bishop said, "was to go out in the world and restore the dignity of man."
        When he tried to do that in his own diocese, he was reviled as a heretic and a communist and threatened with boycotts. But, with the authority of Paul VI behind him, he prevailed.
        Joseph Durick was born in Dayton, Tenn., and grew up in the gritty steel-mill town of Bessemer. He studied at St. Mary's Seminary in Baltimore and was ordained in Rome.
        Bishop Durick is survived by three sisters, Sister Mary Margaret of Mobile; Frances, of Cullman, Ala., and Patty Dinlen of Birmingham, and a brother, William D., of Dallas.
      