
        Roy Grutman, a trial lawyer whose theatrical panache and mellifluous voice reflected his training as a child actor and helped him defend clients in courts and on television, died on Sunday of liver cancer. He was 63 and lived in Manhattan and Greenwich, Conn.
        In 39 years of practice Mr. Grutman, a man who loved quoting Shakespeare, represented Doris Duke, Jackie Collins and Andrew Crispo, the art dealer. But in a reflection of his adaptability and professional range, his two most famous clients were the publisher of a sexually explicit magazine and a famous television evangelist.
        For 18 years, Mr. Grutman represented Robert Guccione, publisher of Penthouse magazine in a variety of libel and obscenity cases. In one celebrated lawsuit, he helped the magazine fend off a libel claim brought by the La Costa resort in California, which was linked to organized crime in a 1975 article in the magazine. He also defended the magazine in actions brought by Vanessa Williams, a former Miss America, and Kimberly Pring, a former Miss Wyoming. Friendship With Falwell
        When the Rev. Jerry Falwell sued Penthouse -- for printing what he said was a bogus interview -- Mr. Grutman once more manned the defense. For two hours in that case, he cross-examined the minister, and when it was over he had won not only a case but a client. "Counselor, if I ever get in serious trouble, be assured I will call you first," Mr. Falwell told him afterward. Mr. Grutman replied, "It will be my great honor to represent you, Doctor." The two men then went out to eat and became close friends.
        Thus, when Mr. Falwell sued Hustler magazine -- which had depicted him, in a parody of a liquor advertisement, describing his first sexual liaison -- he retained Mr. Grutman. At trial, Mr. Grutman won a $200,000 verdict against the magazine, but the award was overturned by the United States Supreme Court. In 1987, when Mr. Falwell assumed the reins of the PTL ministry after the resignation of the Rev. Jim Bakker, Mr. Grutman became counsel for the new board of directors.
        "Roy Grutman is the most intelligent man I've ever met, and a brilliant attorney," Mr. Falwell said yesterday. "He could articulate complex matters in the simplest of terms, so that juries and judges were deeply moved. You might not listen to what he was saying, but you'd listen to the way he said it, and when it was all over, you'd usually vote for him just because you liked him so much."
        While handling Mr. Falwell's legal affairs, Mr. Grutman became a frequent guest on the ABC news program "Nightline." His "war" stories and observations also found their way into print, most notably in his 1990 book "Lawyers and Thieves" (Simon & Schuster). In it, he described why he preferred nonconformists -- like "angry minorities, gun nuts or militant gays" -- on his juries. "If all goes well, they will turn the deliberations into a shouting match, and the trial will end with a hung jury and, with any luck, an out-of-court settlement," he wrote. Silver Bullets and Retort
        He also described how, before a courtroom duel with Gerry Spence, the famed Wyoming trial lawyer sent him some symbolic silver bullets. Mr. Grutman wrote back: "If you persist in seeing yourself as Wyatt Earp, I would suggest you seek psychiatric help. But yes, I will be happy to meet you at the O.K. Corral, as you so banally put it."
        Norman Roy Grutman was born in 1930 in New York City. He graduated from the Horace Mann School, Yale College and Columbia Law School. He spent his formative years as a lawyer in personal-injury cases; for a time, he practiced with Burton Pugach, a legendary Bronx torts lawyer later imprisoned for throwing lye into his girlfriend's face. Mr. Grutman was also associated for a time with Finley, Kumble, Wagner, Heine, Underberg, Myerson, Manley & Casey, a New York corporate law firm whose demise was nearly as spectacular as Mr. Pugach's.
        Survivors include Mr. Grutman's wife and law partner, Jewel Humphrey Grutman; a son, Alexander, of Philadelphia; a daughter, Nila, of Manhattan; a stepson, Bruce Bjork of Brooklyn; a sister, Carole Burns, of Paradise Valley, Ariz., and his mother, Betty Alcalay of Larchmont.
        Mr. Grutman had few illusions about his craft. "For lawyers," he wrote in his book, "winning isn't everything -- getting paid is."
        "A lawyer is a utensil, like a knife or fork," he stated. "It makes no difference who ate with it last, only that it was sufficiently sanitized between meals."
      