
        William A. Henry 3d, the drama critic for Time magazine and the author of biographies of Jack Benny and Jackie Gleason, died yesterday in Maidenhead, England. He was 44 and lived in Plainfield, N.J.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Robert Pondiscio, a spokesman for Time.
        Mr. Henry joined the staff of Time in 1981, covering politics and culture, after winning two Pulitzer Prizes as a writer for The Boston Globe. In 1985 he was named Time's drama critic. From 1989 he was also a senior writer, contributing articles on the press and politics. Editing and Acting
        Mr. Henry was born in South Orange, N.J., and attended public schools in Plainfield. In 1971, he received a bachelor's degree from Yale College, where he was executive editor of the student newspaper and the yearbook. He also acted with the Yale Repertory Theater, a professional company, and in summer stock. From 1973 to 1974, he was a graduate student in history at Boston University.
        After graduating from Yale, he began writing for The Globe. He turned to journalism as a career, he said in an interview in 1982, because "there aren't many parts for a short, plump actor who can't sing or dance."
        While at The Globe, Mr. Henry won his first Pulitzer Prize, for distinguished public-service reporting, in 1975 for his work on team coverage of racial integration in Boston. In 1980, he won a second Pulitzer for television criticism and reporting.
        In 1980, he joined The New York Daily News as a critic at large and a columnist.
        His books include "Visions of America" (1985), on the 1984 Presidential campaign, and two show-business biographies, "Jack Benny: The Radio and Television Years" (1991) and "The Great One: The Life and Legend of Jackie Gleason" (1992). His latest book, "In Defense of Elitism," is to be published in September by Doubleday.
        He was a founding member of the Theater Critics Association and served as vice president and president of the New York Drama Critics Circle.
        He is survived by his wife, Gail.
      