
        George Alexander Carver Jr., a national security expert who had a principal intelligence role in the Vietnam War, died of cardiac arrest on Sunday at North Arundel Hospital in Glen Burnie, Md. He was 64.
        Dr. Carver, who lived in Great Falls, Va., was stricken on his way home from the Baltimore-Washington Airport, where he had picked up one of his sons, his family said.
        At his death Dr. Carver was the John M. Olin Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. He also worked as a private consultant, appeared on public affairs television programs and wrote and lectured widely.
        He was born in Louisville, Ky., and reared in China, where his father headed the English department of the University of Shanghai. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Yale University and, on a Woodrow Wilson Fellowship, received a doctorate in philosophy from Oxford University. Oxford Coxswain in 1951
        At Yale he was a debating champion and the coxswain of the Yale crew. In 1951 he became the first American to cox the Oxford shell for the 97th Oxford-Cambridge race on the Thames.
        Beginning in 1953, Dr. Carver spent 26 years in government service, mostly with the Central Intelligence Agency. From 1966 to 1973, he served three Directors of Central Intelligence -- Richard Helms, James R. Schlesinger and William E. Colby -- as their special assistant for Vietnamese affairs.
        In the mid-1970's, Dr. Carver overhauled the procedures for gathering national intelligence. From 1976 until his retirement from the C.I.A. in 1979 he was posted in West Germany with responsibility for Berlin. He was the senior American intelligence officer in Germany at the time.
        He then joined the Center for Strategic and International Studies. But the shadows of the Vietnam War made Dr. Carver, like Mr. Colby and other senior intelligence officers, a controversial figure because of his influence on political pacification programs and United States policy making in South Vietnam in general.
        Dr. Carver also was a witness in the $120 million libel suit that Gen. William C. Westmoreland filed in 1983 over a CBS News documentary, "The Uncounted Enemy: A Vietnam Deception," which was broadcast the previous year. At issue were estimates of enemy strength reported by General Westmoreland's comand in Saigon to the Pentagon in 1967. Defending Westmoreland
        Dr. Carver and other former associates defended the general against suggestions that his staff willfully played down enemy troop strength at his behest.
        The suit ended before it reached the jury, with General Westmoreland settling for a formal CBS acknowledgment of his "long and faithful service to his country."
        Dr. Carver is survived by his wife of 37 years, Ruth Hughes Carver; four sons, George A. 3d, of Reston, Va., David M., of Cincinnati, Christopher S., of Miami Beach, and Douglas H., of Great Falls; a daughter, Catherine Carver McCurrach of Birmingham, Mich.; his parents, George A. and Saxon R. Carver of Louisville, and three grandchildren.
      