
        Dr. A. Wilbur Duryee, a cardiovascular specialist who was also Gov. Thomas E. Dewey's personal physician, died on Wednesday at his home in Great Barrington, Me., where he had moved in 1986. He was 94 and previously lived in Pawling, N.Y.
        He had suffered a long illness, his family said.
        Dr. Duryee served as professor of clinical medicine at the New York University Medical Center from 1948 until his retirement in 1981. He was a former chief of peripheral vascular clinics there and at Bellevue Hospital. Peripheral vascular diseases are those that affect the blood vessels outside the heart or major arteries.
        Besides serving Governor Dewey, Dr. Duryee was the personal physician of Lowell Thomas, the author and journalist, who was his neighbor in Quaker Hill in Pawling. He attended to Mr. Thomas at his death in 1981.
        A native of Cherry Hill, N.J., Dr. Duryee was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Rutgers College and received his M.D. from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1925. He completed his internship and residency at New York University Postgraduate Medical School.
        He was certified by the Board of Internal Medicine in 1937. Besides his hospital appointments at University Hospital and Bellevue, he served as a consultant at Meadowbrook Hospital in Hempstead, L.I., Englewood Hospital in New Jersey and St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan.
        He was a past secretary and president of the New York Heart Association and vice president of the American Heart Association. He was an editor of the Journal of Compensation Medicine, a field now referred to as industrial medicine.
        Dr. Duryee is survived by his wife of 49 years, Helen Moore Duryee; two daughters, Deborah Burde of Ridgewood, N.J., and Mary Ellen Dixon of Bradford, Mass., and eight grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 8, 1994, Wednesday
        An obituary on Saturday about Dr. A. Wilbur Duryee, a cardiovascular specialist, misstated his residence. It was Great Barrington, Mass., not Maine.
      