
        Murray Cutler, a Brooklyn criminal-defense lawyer for 46 years whose clients included accused killers, rapists and drug dealers and the reputed kingpin of gambling in New York in the 1940's, died at his Brooklyn home yesterday after a long illness. He was 78 years old.
        Colon cancer was the cause of death, said his son, Richard.
        Tall and powerfully built, Mr. Cutler was a New York City police officer and detective for seven years early in his career. But from 1947 until his retirement because of illness last November, he was a colorful and familiar figure in the city's criminal courts and on Court Street, Brooklyn's legal row.
        One of his best-known cases was the 1978 trial in Manhattan of Dr. Arsenio Favor, a surgeon accused of killing his wife with a drug that left no traces. The prosecution called 50 witnesses in 13 days of testimony, but Mr. Cutler cast sufficient doubt on the largely circumstantial evidence to obtain a hung jury, and Dr. Favor was acquitted in a retrial a year later. Thousands of Cases
        Among his early clients was Harry Gross, who reigned over a $20-million-a-year empire of bookies, runners and wire rooms with payoffs to police officers and politicians. Mr. Cutler successfully defended him from an escape charge at the end of his heyday in 1951, but Mr. Gross later testified against scores of police officers and went to jail himself for eight years.
        Mr. Cutler had an easygoing country-lawyer style in the courtroom: glasses perched on nose, hands stuffed in pockets, voice subdued as he engaged hostile witnesses in deceptively casual questions that often had scorpion-like stingers in the end. It was a sharp contrast to the flamboyant, confrontational style of his son, Bruce Cutler, the lawyer for the Mafia racketeer John Gotti.
        In a legal practice that took on thousands of criminal cases over more than four decades, Mr. Cutler often appeared in more than 20 trials a year, mostly in Brooklyn and Manhattan, but occasionally in cities abroad or elsewhere in the United States, representing people accused of violent crimes, drug dealing, prostitution and other activities. Colleagues said he had a winning record.
        "He never asked a client if they did it," said his son, Richard, who is an assistant prosecutor in San Jose, Calif. "He was only interested in presenting the best defense in court and in making the Government live up to its Constitutional requirements."
        Murray Cutler was born in the Bronx on May 3, 1916, and grew up in Brooklyn, graduating from New Utrecht High School. After studying at New York University, he earned a law degree from Brooklyn Law School in 1939. But instead of opening a law practice immediately, he entered the Police Academy, graduating in 1940.
        After three years as a patrolman and four as detective, he set up law practice.
        In addition to his sons, Bruce, of Manhattan, and Richard, of Mountain View, Calif., Mr. Cutler is survived by his wife, the former Selma Scheiner, whom he married in 1941; a daughter, Phyllis Oliphant of Janesville, N.Y., a sister, Edna Ocean of Boynton, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      