
        Biagio Max Corvo, a Connecticut publisher who helped organize the Allied thrust in Italy 50 years ago, died on Saturday in Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 74 and lived in Cromwell.
        The cause was an aneurysm, his family said.
        Mr. Corvo was publisher of The Middletown Bulletin, which he founded in 1949 as a weekly Italian- and English-language tabloid. He eventually turned it into an English-only monthly focusing on local news and events. Mr. Corvo wrote a foreign-affairs commentary for the magazine.
        A native of Augusta, Sicily, Mr. Corvo came to the United States as a boy.
        He volunteered for the United States Army in 1941 and, stationed in Fort Lee, Va., drew up plans for operations behind enemy lines in the Mediterranean region during World War II. His work impressed senior officers, and he was transferred to the Italian Secret Intelligence branch of the Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        The branch was able to smuggle hundreds of agents behind the lines, supply partisan fighters, and maintain a liaison between Allied field commands and Italy's first post-Fascist Government. Mr. Corvo rose to the rank of major and was awarded the Legion of Merit, among other decorations.
        He told his story in his book, "The O.S.S. in Italy 1942-1945: A Personal Memoir," published in 1989. He also contributed to a historical compendium on World War II for the National Archives and Records Administration.
        After the war he was a partner in a large citrus processing enterprise in Italy. More recently he was a business consultant in this country and Europe.
        A Republican, Mr. Corvo was active in party affairs, working in the campaigns of candidates for state and national office and as a campaign manager for mayoral candidates.
        Mr. Corvo is survived by his wife of 48 years, Mary Donovan Corvo; two sons, Mark, of Cromwell, and William, of Middletown; a daughter, MaryJo Corvo-Angus of Chicago; a sister, Jean Aubin of Cromwell, and seven grandchildren.
      