
        Earle Warren, an alto saxophonist and singer best known for his work with the original Count Basie Orchestra, died on Saturday at Hope House Manor in Springfield, Ohio, where he lived. He was 79.
        The cause was complications of a stroke and kidney failure, said a friend, Phil Schaap, the radio disk jockey and jazz historian.
        Mr. Warren was an important element in the Basie band's brilliance. As the lead alto saxophonist, he led the saxophone section, making sure it swung with authority. From his earliest recordings with the band, done in July 1937, Mr. Warren can be heard driving the section on, his saxophone clear and precise, articulating the rhythms of the tunes. And his occasional solos with the band, on "Sent for You Yesterday" or "Jumpin' at the Woodside," for example, show him to be a bluesy, aggressive improviser. Discovered by Basie's Scouts
        Mr. Warren was born in Springfield into a musical family, and early on he mastered several instruments. By 1933 he was singing with the pianist Art Tatum. A few years later, he moved to Cincinnati, where he led a big band. Count Basie's two main saxophonists, Lester Young and Herschel Evans, were scouting for a lead saxophonist when they heard Mr. Warren. By March 1937, Mr. Warren had joined the band, setting it up to be one of the great American orchestras of the 20th century.
        Mr. Warren spent the next 13 years with Basie, except for 1946, when he led and recorded with his own band. In 1950, he left the Basie orchestra to freelance. He appeared on "The Sound of Jazz," an important television show that featured performers like Coleman Hawkins, Billie Holiday and Ben Webster, and performed at countless festivals.
        But in the late 1950's and 60's, when rock-and-roll began to compete with jazz, Mr. Warren started a parallel career, leading a band for the rock impresario Allan Freed, managing James Brown and the Platters, and conducting Diana Ross's band.
        In 1972 he started the Countsmen, a well-recieved band, with which he played until his retirement in 1992.
        He is survived by a sister, Nancy Mitchell of Springfield; a brother, Robert, of Tulsa, Okla., and seven children.
        A memorial service is to be held on June 20 at 8:30 P.M. at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue at 54th Street. WKCR-FM is planning a memorial broadcast of Mr. Warren's music from 5 A.M. Thursday to 9:30 A.M. Friday.
      