
        Irwin Stark, a writer, poet and professor emeritus of English at City College of New York, died on Saturday at his home in Hillsdale, N.Y. A former resident of Bronxville, he was 81.
        The cause was heart failure, his family said.
        Professor Stark wrote poetry, short stories and two well-received novels. He was also known for teaching English 12, a narrative writing course at City College famous for its distinguished alumni. The course was started in 1926 by Dr. Theodore Goodman, who taught it until his death in 1952, when City College hired Professor Stark to take it over together with Prof. Leonard Ehrlich.
        A native of Passaic, N.J., Professor Stark received his B.A. and M.A. degrees from City College. He retired in 1975.
        Before joining the City College faculty, he taught English in New York City high schools. He also taught modern drama to adults in evening classes.
        Professor Stark's first novel, "Invisible Island," was published in 1948 and dealt with urban race relations.
        His other novel, "Subpoena," published in 1966, described a Congressional investigation of Communist subversion by a committee not unlike Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's. Together with Irving Malin, Professor Stark was co-editor of "Breakthrough: A Treasury of Contemporary American-Jewish Literatures," a collection of stories, poems and essays published in 1964. His own articles and short stories appeared in various national magazines. In 1953 he took a first prize in the National Fine Arts Awards for his story "The Bridge."
        For many years, he was a member of the Academic Freedom Committee of the American Civil Liberties Union. At his death he was a violinist with the Stockbridge Symphonia in upstate New York.
        Professor Stark is survived by his wife of 58 years, Alice Fox Stark; a son, Dr. Evan Stark of New Haven, Conn.; a daughter, Joyce Duncan of Syracuse; two sisters, Leona Cohn of Suffern, N.Y., and Lynne Evansberg of Tamarac, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      