
        Jose Jaime Pierluisi, an aide to to the Governor of Puerto Rico, was killed on Tuesday night during a robbery in San Juan. He was 28.
        Mr. Pierluisi, the brother of Puerto Rico's Justice Secretary, was shot to death just before midnight in what the police said was a carjacking outside his parents' home in the affluent Condado section of the capital. His car, wallet and briefcase were stolen, the police said.
        The authorities said Mr. Pierluisi's death did not appear to be politically motivated.
        Mr. Pierluisi, who graduated cum laude from Harvard College and earned a master's degree in business administration from Harvard Business School, had been Gov. Pedro Rossello's aide for economic development since January.
        The son of Jorge and Doris Pierluisi, he was the youngest of five children in a politically active San Juan family.
        His father was Puerto Rico's Secretary of Housing from 1977 to 1984. His brother Pedro is Justice Secretary, and his other brother, Jorge Jr., is a lawyer in San Juan. One sister, Doris Pierluisi, lives in Miami; the other, Caridad Pierluisi-Ruiz, lives in Boston.
        After Mr. Pierluisi's body was identified early Wednesday, Governor Rossello declared three days of mourning. The Governor served as a pall bearer at the funeral on Thursday.
        After receiving his undergraduate degree in 1987, Mr. Pierluisi worked for the First Boston Corporation in San Juan as a financial analyst. In 1989, he enrolled at the Harvard Business School, from which he graduated in 1991. He was hired as vice president and treasurer of The Bank and Trust of Puerto Rico, where he worked until Governor Rossello took office in January. In his post with the Governor, Mr. Pierluisi worked on trade and other economic issues.
        Carjacking has become common in Puerto Rico, said Richard Schwein, the special agent in charge of the Federal Bureau of Investigation office in San Juan. The city alone had about 4,000 carjackings last year, he said, and several resulted in deaths.
        A year ago, the Federal Government formed a task force of local and Federal authorities to fight carjackings. Mr. Schwein said it was the work of that group that led to the arrest on Thursday of a suspect in Mr. Pierluisi's killing, Jose Antonio Nunez Rodriguez, 26, of San Juan.
        Under a year-old Federal law, Mr. Nunez, if convicted, would face a maximum penalty of life in prison for carjacking with a firearm.
        A bail hearing for Mr. Nunez is set for Monday.
      