
        Igor Youskevitch, one of 20th-century ballet's greatest dancers and a master of classical style at its noblest when he starred with American Ballet Theater and the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of congestive heart failure, said Ilona Copen, co-director with Mr. Youskevitch of the New York International Ballet Competition.
        As a performer from the 1930's to the early 60's, Mr. Youskevitch was acclaimed for the way he united agility with elegance. Long before the late 1950's, when virtuosic Soviet male dancers began to appear in the United States, Mr. Youskevitch set high standards for male dancing in America. He was idolized by countless dance fans and served as a role model for scores of boys who sought careers in ballet.
        After his retirement as a dancer, his desire to preserve the traditions of his art led him to be active as a teacher and as a director of the New York International Ballet Competition, an important showcase for young dancers held every three years.
        Mr. Youskevitch was a formidable technician, but he attracted special attention through his innate dignity and impeccable phrasing. In 1943, John Martin, the dance critic of The New York Times, wrote, "Here is a really classic male dancer, with simplicity and directness and no hint of affectation or flamboyance."  Partnered Alicia Alonso
        A princely cavalier, Mr. Youskevitch partnered such distinguished ballerinas as Alicia Markova, Alexandra Danilova, Tamara Toumanova, Nathalie Krassovska, Mia Slavenska and Maria Tallchief. But his partnership with the Cuban-born Alicia Alonso became legendary. In performances with American Ballet Theater, Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and Miss Alonso's own Ballet de Cuba, they danced with an almost miraculous rapport; their performances inspired the rapturous responses that audiences later bestowed upon Margot Fonteyn and Rudolf Nureyev.
        They were especially celebrated for their passionate interpretations of "Giselle." Analyzing them in "Giselle and Albrecht," her book about the ballet, Doris Hering concluded that the "rush and joyousness of their partnered dancing" in the moments before their characters were struck down by tragedy gave the ballet "greater poignancy than ever."
        Mr. Youskevitch was a rarity in ballet: a late-starting virtuoso. Indeed, he did not have a ballet class until he was 20 years old. He was born on March 13, 1912, the son of a judge in a small Ukranian community near Kiev. After escaping the Bolshevik Revolution, his family settled in the former Yugoslavia. Mr. Youskevitch attended school in Belgrade, enrolled as an egineering student at Belgrade University and was active in the Sokol, the Slavic athletic organization.
        Before graduating from college, he was spotted in a gymnastic competition by the ballerina Xenia Grunt, who was convinced that he could be a dancer. He became her student in 1932 and, soon afterward, her partner in some Parisian performances. Remaining in Paris, he studied at some of that city's distinguished ballet studios.  Served in U.S. Navy
        He joined Les Ballets de Paris in 1934 and the Woizikowski Ballet a year later. In 1938, he became a member of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and married Anna Scarpova, a dancer with that company. The Ballet Russe regularly toured the United States and, after the outbreak of World War II, made New York its headquarters.
        Mr. Youskevitch served as a seaman in the United States Navy from 1944, the year he became an American citizen, to 1946. When he was discharged, he was out of condition, overweight and 34 years old. Under such circumstances, many dancers might well have thought of finding new careers. But Mr. Youskevitch was determined to continue dancing. His greatest years were still ahead of him.
        In 1946, after a brief stint with Ballet Russe Highlights, a small touring group, he became a principal dancer of Ballet Theater, as American Ballet Theater was then known. It was with Ballet Theater that he began his partnership with Miss Alonso, and in 1947 he starred with her in the premiere of George Balanchine's "Theme and Variations," an abstract ballet notable for its technical fireworks and lucid lyricism.
        In 1955, Mr. Youskevitch returned to be a star of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, and Miss Alonso was once again his ballerina. During the late 50's he was a guest artist with several companies, and he danced with Ballet Theater on its first visit to the Soviet Union in 1960. After retiring from the stage in 1962, he taught around the country and at his own school in New York. From 1971 until 1982 he was on the faculty of the department of drama at the University of Texas in Austin.  Critical of Cheap Effects
        Mr. Youskevitch always insisted that male dancers devote themselves to artistry as well as to agility. Some of the Soviet defectors who came to America bothered him because, although he admired their brilliance, he thought them guilty of lapses in taste. Writing in The Times in 1982, he chided them for their "cheap theatrical effects" and for "their indifferent and sometimes rude treatment of their female partners."
        A slim, handsome man with keen brown eyes and, when young, jet black hair, Mr. Youskevitch was warm-hearted and affable offstage, and his favorite hobby was fishing. But he never lost his aristocratic manner. Late in his life, after his hair had turned silver, his taut, erect bearing and well-tailored suits made him a striking figure. Anyone who did not know that he was a former dancer might have thought him a retired matador.
        In 1952 he was one of the stars of "Invitation to the Dance," a film directed and choreographed by Gene Kelly. He won the Dance Magazine Award in 1958, the Capezio Dance Award in 1991 and the Premio del Gran Teatro de La Habana, a Cuban award, in 1993.
        He is survived by his wife and by a daughter, Maria Youskevitch of Manhattan.
      