
        Frank Belknap Long, the author of "The Hounds of Tindalos," "The Horror From the Hills" and other works of fantasy, the supernatural and science fiction, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Long was born in New York City and attended New York University. As an adolescent he published a story, "The Eye Above the Mantel," that caught the attention of the writer H. P. Lovecraft, who wrote to Mr. Long in praise of the story, thus beginning a lifelong friendship. Lovecraft helped Mr. Long place his early stories in the magazine Weird Tales, which published many of Mr. Long's tales over the years, including "The Ocean Leech," "The Dog-Eared God," "The Hounds of Tindalos," "A Visitor From Egypt" and "The Horror From the Hills." Work in Science Fiction
        In the late 30's, Mr. Long turned his hand to science fiction, writing for Astounding Science Fiction. He also contributed horror stories to Unknown (later retitled Unknown Worlds).
        His science fiction works include the story collection "John Carstairs, Space Detective" (1949) and the novels "Mars Is My Destination" (1962) and "It Was the Day of the Robot" (1963). The serial novella "The Horror From the Hills" (1963), one of his best-known works, was based on a dream related to him by Lovecraft.
        In the 50's and 60's Mr. Long was an editor at Satellite Science Fiction, Short Stories and Mike Shayne's Mystery Magazine.
        Many of his stories were collected in "The Hounds of Tindalos" (1946), "The Rim of the Unknown" (1972), "The Early Long" (1976) and "Night Fear" (1979).
        In the 1960's, he wrote several gothic novels, some of them under the name of his wife, Lyda Long. In 1975, he wrote a biography, "Howard Phillips Lovecraft: Dreamer on the Night Side." His works also include three volumes of poetry, "A Man From Genoa and Other Poems" (1926), "The Goblin Tower" (1928) and "In Mayan Splendor" (1977).
        He is survived by his wife.
      