
        James B. Pollack, the senior research scientist in the space science division of NASA's Ames Research Center at Moffett Field, Calif., died Monday at his home at San Jose, Calif. He was 55.
        The cause was cancer of the spine, said Jeffrey N. Cuzzi, the chief of the Ames center's theoretical studies branch, which is a part of the space science division.
        Dr. Pollack, a planetary scientist with a doctorate in astronomy, had wide-ranging interests including the possible effects of nuclear conflict. He was one of five scientists, including Dr. Carl Sagan of Cornell, who introduced the term "nuclear winter" and, with a 1983 article, ignited a bitter dispute among scientists over whether a nuclear war would be likely to result in a catastrophic global chilling.
        The five scientists' article, "Nuclear Winter: Global Consequences of Multiple Nuclear Explosions," was published by the journal Science in 1983 and led to a legion of films, plays and books based on the nuclear winter hypothesis.
        But later the five acknowledged that they had overestimated "nuclear winter's" severity, and by early 1990 their concession appeared to have moderated the longstanding debate. 'Gifted and Inspiring Teacher'
        Dr. Sagan, the astronomer, author and teacher, said Tuesday that Dr. Pollack had also "made fundamental contributions to our knowledge of planetary atmospheres, planetary surfaces and of the origin of the solar system." Dr. Sagan added, "He was deeply involved in NASA missions to the planets and was a gifted and inspiring teacher."
        Dr. Cuzzi said: "Jim was nearly unique in the breadth of his interests and in his strong focus on problems of origins of planetary systems. He really wanted to know where planets came from and how. In order to study this field, where there is so little data, sometimes you have to be creative and imaginative. Jim was very good at creating scenarios and hypotheses of planetary origins that allowed others to put their own work into context."
        The honors that Dr. Pollock received included sharing a Leo Szilard Award of the American Physical Society for research in the public interest, for work on the nuclear winter theory.
        The son of Michael and Jeanne Pollack, he grew up in Woodmere, L.I., and was the valedictorian of his class at the Lawrence, L.I., high school. He earned an A.B. magna cum laude in physics from Princeton in 1960 and his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1965.
        His survivors include a sister, Ginny Breslauer of Woodmere, and two nieces, Kimberly and Lindsay Breslauer, also of Woodmere.
      