
        Franklin D. Murphy, a leader in medicine, higher education, the arts and publishing, died yesterday at the Medical Center of the University of California at Los Angeles. He was 78.
        He died of lung cancer, said Robert F. Erburu, who succeeded Dr. Murphy as chairman, president and chief executive of the Times Mirror Company in Los Angeles.
        Dr. Murphy was chairman and chief executive of Times Mirror from 1968 through 1980.
        In his statement, Mr. Erburu praised Dr. Murphy for his "drive, passion and commitment to every project," his insistence on "impeccable standards of business ethics" and his "broad perspective that integrated art, history and social concerns with the work of a major media and information company." Kansas Medical School Dean
        A native of Kansas City, Mo., and a physician, Dr. Murphy became dean of the school of medicine at the University of Kansas in 1948 at the age of 32. He was appointed chancellor of the University of Kansas three years later.
        From 1960 to 1968, he served as chancellor of the University of California at Los Angeles. When Dr. Murphy resigned, he denied to reporters that his departure after eight years was motivated by the rising frictions between the university and the administration of Gov. Ronald Reagan.
        But Dr. Murphy had been one of the more outspoken university figures in criticizing budget cuts imposed by the Reagan administration. One year before resigning, Dr. Murphy had told the regents bluntly, "I do not intend to preside at the liquidation or substantial erosion of the quality that 50 years of effort have created."
        At that time the Reagan administration was cutting the university's request for a $278 million state appropriation to $231 million. Civic and Cultural Service
        His fascination with the visual arts led him to serve as chairman of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, and to become a founder of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art at its present site. He was also a trustee of the Ahmanson Foundation and trustee emeritus of the J. Paul Getty Trust.
        Over the years, he served as an officer or board member of numerous nonprofit organizations and commissions, including Presidential commissions. He was decorated by six foreign governments.
        Reviewing an art exhibition in Dr. Murphy's honor at the Getty Center for the History of Art and Humanities in Santa Monica in 1992, William Wilson, art critic of the Los Angeles Times, Times Mirror's flagship newspaper, said that Dr. Murphy had "fashioned an awesome record as a cultural catalyst in the building of museums, libraries, collections and scholarship.".
        In 1991, Dr. Murphy received the highest honor of the National Gallery of Art, the Andrew W. Mellon medal, for having served 27 years as one of the institution's five trustees and as chairman of its board since 1985.
        Receiving the medal, Dr. Murphy quipped that when invited to be a trustee of the National Gallery in 1964, "it was a real breakthrough for California."
        "Never before," he said, "had a person west of Pittsburgh served on the board of a major cultural institution in the East." Steered National Gallery
        Dr. Murphy's deft but forceful behind-the-scenes activity in the art world was most evident in April 1992 when the two finalists for the directorship of the National Gallery of Art in Washington were both directors of major Los Angeles museums: John Walsh, of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, and Earl A. Powell 3d, of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
        Dr. Murphy was then chairman of the board of the National Gallery, and had also served on the boards of the Getty and Los Angeles County Museum. He was known to be a supported of both Mr. Walsh and Mr. Powell.
        Had Mr. Walsh gone to the National Gallery, he would have become the second director of a Getty Trust program to resign in a few weeks. It was reported that Dr. Murphy persuaded Mr. Walsh to withdraw his name, arguing that he was needed at the Getty, which was then engaged in an estimated $1 billion building project.
        Dr. Murphy is survived by his wife Judith H. Murphy of Beverly Hills and four children: Mrs. Joyce M. Dickey of Fairway, Kan., Mrs. Craig D. Crockwell of Los Angeles, Mrs. Ross Speer of Los Angeles and Franklin Lee Murphy of Los Angeles.
      