
        William Osgood Field, a leader in the study of glaciers and their shaping of the landscape, died on Thursday at his home in Great Barrington, Mass., at the age of 90.
        His daughter, Diana Sloane Field, said he had died of cancer.
        In the 1950's he headed the World Data Center A for Glaciology at the American Geographical Society in New York, one of three archives for worldwide glacial exploration.
        He helped study the fluctuations of some 200 glaciers in the southern Andes, Greenland, western Canada and Alaska. The history of glaciers is an index to climate fluctuations. A Founding Father
        "If scholarly disciplines can have founding fathers," Dr. Melvin G. Marcus, a professor of geography at Arizona State University in Tempe, said recently, "surely Bill Field is one of the few key elders who sired the field of glaciology." Like Mr. Field, Dr. Marcus was for many years a board member of the American Geographical Society.
        Mr. Field was born on Jan. 30, 1904, and educated at the Hotchkiss School and Harvard University, where he received a bachelor of science degree in geology in 1926. He became a research associate with the American Geographical Society in 1940 and later served for many years as its director of exploration and research.
        Although Mr. Field retired in 1969, he continued to serve the society. He wrote "Mountain Glaciers of the Northern Hemisphere," published in 1975 by the Army's Cold Regions Research and Engineering Laboratory.
        Among his honors were the Charles P. Daly Medal of the American Geographical Society, the Busk Medal of the Royal Geographical Society, the Explorers Medal of the Explorers Club and the Seligman Crystal of the International Glaciological Society.
        In addition to his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Mary Losey Mapes, whom he married in 1963. His previous wife, Alice Witherow, died in 1960. Other survivors include a son, John Osgood, of Chestnut Hill, Mass.; a brother, Frederick Vanderbilt, of Minneapolis; two sisters, Margery Wilde of Lenox, Mass., and May Jackson of Needham, Mass., and two stepsons, Anthony Halsted Mapes of New Britain, Pa., and Peter Losey Mapes of Miami.
      