
        Dr. John Romano, an influential voice in American psychiatry and medicine who taught generations of aspiring physicians, died on Sunday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in suburban Brighton.
        The cause was a stroke, according to the University of Rochester Medical Center.
        Dr. Romano was professor emeritus of psychiatry at the University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry. He founded the school's department of psychiatry in 1946 and served as its chairman until 1971.
        "Along with a handful of others of his generation, he was responsible for shaping modern psychiatry in America," wrote Sharon R. Kaufman in "A Healer's Tale: Transforming Medicine and Culture" (1993), which chronicles the careers of seven physicians.
        Dr. Romano, a founding member of the National Institute of Mental Health, emphasized dialogue between patient and physician. He taught that an effective physician should also examine a patient's personal concerns, including about finances and death. He also stressed respect for cultural and spiritual beliefs.
        Dr. Romano developed post-doctoral psychiatric training for physicians and community mental-health services. He oversaw the creation of Strong Memorial's "Wing R" in 1946, one of the earliest psychiatric centers built as an integral part of a university hospital.
        "He was the spirit of the medical center," said Dr. Robert J. Joynt, vice provost for health affairs at the University of Rochester. "There are countless stories of how he went out of his way for others -- patients, students, fellow department chairmen and deans -- to help their lives and careers."
        A native of Milwaukee, Dr. Romano worked his way through Marquette University and its School of Medicine. At 33, in 1942, he was named chairman of the department of psychiatry at the University of Cincinnati. Four years later the University of Rochester recruited him to form its department of psychiatry and serve as chairman.
        After he reached emeritus status, he continued to write, lecture and advise students until his illness.
        Dr. Romano is survived by a son, David of Philadelphia; a brother, Robert of Milwaukee; and three granddaughters. His wife, Miriam Modisett Romano, died in 1989.
      