
        Yuri Markovich Nagibin, the author of understated, lyrical short stories in the tradition of Turgenev, Chekhov and Bunin, died on Friday at his home in Moscow. He was 74.
        The Associated Press reported that the cause was heart failure.
        Mr. Nagibin was born in Moscow and began writing stories as a teen-ager. His first published work, "The Double Mistake," appeared in the journal Ogonyok in 1939.
        When Germany invaded Russia, he abandoned his studies as a screenwriter at the Film Making Institute and enlisted in the army, where he was a private and a political worker with the field forces.
        In 1943, he published his first collection of stories, "The Man From the Front." He left the army that year with shell shock. Later he was a war correspondent for the newspaper Trud and in 1945 began 20 years on the editorial board of the journal Znamya.
        His many short-story collections include "The Core of Life" (1948), "The Commanding Height" (1951), "Winter Oak" (1955), "Difficult Happiness" (1956), "In Early Spring" (1961) and "Far and Near" (1965). Difficulties Portrayed
        In 1965 he joined the editorial staff of the journal Nash Sovremennik.
        Although Mr. Nagibin steered clear of political questions in his work, concentrating instead on quiet, sensitively rendered psychological dramas of average Soviet citizens, he was attacked in the early years of the Khrushchev cultural thaw for several stories that depicted the difficult life of ordinary Russians. He was also rebuked by the party when he defended the work of the abstract sculptor Ernst Neizvestny.
        In 1988 a sampling of his work was published in English under the title "The Peak of Success and Other Stories."
        Mr. Nagibin also wrote nearly 30 screenplays, including the script for "Dersu Uzala," filmed in Russia by the Japanese director Akira Kurosawa. It won the 1975 Oscar for best foreign film.
        He completed a novel and a short-story collection just before he died.
        His second wife was the poet Bella Akhmadulina.
      