
        Julius Adams Stratton, a scientist who was president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1959 to 1966 and chairman of the Ford Foundation from 1966 to 1971, died Wednesday night at Goddard House, a nursing home in Boston. He was 93.
        Dr. Stratton, who had most recently lived in Cambridge, Mass., died of pneumonia, said Charles Ball, an M.I.T spokesman.
        As the 11th president of M.I.T., Dr. Stratton, a physicist and electrical engineer, headed one of the world's leading centers of scientific research and education.
        Dr. Paul A. Gray, the university's 14th president and current chairman of its board, said yesterday through a spokesman that while Dr. Stratton was president, his "strong commitment to the arts and humanities at M.I.T. was particularly important in a period when those activities were first flowering." Transformation of M.I.T.
        Under Dr. Stratton's leadership, which began in 1957 when he was named acting president of the university, major innovations in teaching and curriculum development changed the environment of scientific education at M.I.T.
        Interdisciplinary centers were founded for space research, the earth sciences, the life sciences, materials science, engineering and advanced engineering study, and the construction of buildings to house the centers transformed the landscape of the Cambridge campus.
        It was while Dr. Stratton was president and male students outnumbered female students by about 60 to 1 that M.I.T. began planning its first women's dormitory. Women's potential in science, he said at the time, represents one of the "great latent resources of the country."
        In 1966, when he turned 65, Dr. Stratton reached mandatory retirement age and was succeeded by Dr. Howard W. Johnson, who had been dean of M.I.T.'s Alfred P. Sloan School of Management.
        The Stratton era and that of his predecessor, Dr. James R. Killian, Jr., who was president from 1948 to 1959, marked M.I.T.'s transformation from a technical institution into what has been called "a university polarized around science." M.I.T. Freshman in 1920
        Dr. Stratton was born in Seattle on May 18, 1901, the son of Julius A. Stratton, a lawyer and judge, and the former Laura Adams, a concert pianist. His long association with M.I.T. began in 1920 as a freshman after making the trip from Seattle aboard a ship bound for Boston by signing on as a radio operator.
        After receiving a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering in 1923, he studied French literature for a year at Grenoble and Toulouse universities in France. He then returned to M.I.T. and received a master's degree in electrical engineering in 1926.
        He studied at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, earning a doctoral degree in mathematical physics in 1928, and returned to M.I.T. as an assistant professor of electrical engineering. In 1930 he switched to the physics department, where he became an associate professor in 1935.
        Dr. Stratton rose through the academic ranks to become a full professor of physics in 1941, and held a several administrative posts before being named acting president in 1957.
        When he became chairman of the Ford Foundation, of which he had been a trustee since 1955, Dr. Stratton oversaw the wealthiest philanthropic organization in the world.
        He has been credited with important changes in the foundation's policies and procedures that, among other things, increased its flexibility in policy making. He retired in 1971.
        As a scientist, Dr. Stratton worked in the burgeoning field of communications and communications theory in the 1920's. In the next decade he was active in the revitalization of M.I.T.'s physics department. His writings included the book "Electromagnetic Theory" (McGraw Hill, 1941), which is still in print.
        In World War II, Dr. Stratton joined the staff of M.I.T.'s Radiation Laboratory and worked on the development of Loran, or Long Range Navigation, a system of radio technology by which a ship or airplane can determine its position. He also helped to plan the use of radar in the Allied invasion of Normandy in June 1944.
        From 1946 through 1949 he was the first director of M.I.T.'s Research Laboratory of Electronics, which adopted the Radiation Laboratory's interdisciplinary approach to research and became a model for that approach at M.I.T. and elsewhere.
        Over the years, Dr. Stratton was awarded 17 honorary degrees from educational institutions in the United States and other countries.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Catherine N. Coffman, whom he married in 1935; three daughters, Catherine Nelson Stratton and Laura Thoresby, both of London, and Cary F. Boyd of Newbury, Mass., and a granddaughter.
      