
        The Rev. John Francis Cronin, a Roman Catholic priest who was an expert on labor, race relations and social justice, died on Sunday at St. Charles Villa, a Sulpician retirement home in Baltimore. He was 85.
        Father Cronin came to national prominence in 1945 when the National Catholic Welfare Conference, now the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, named him assistant director of its Department of Social Action in Washington. He held that position for 22 years.
        He often served as a church spokesman on social and political issues. He was considered an expert on Communism, and at the height of the cold war he was vice chairman of the All-American Conference to Combat Communism.
        In 1962, his pamphlet, "Communism: Threat to Freedom," also took on right-wing fringe groups in the United States. He held that extremists were fomenting "a virulent form of disunity that is dangerously weakening the nation."
        Father Cronin was a strong supporter of equal rights and opportunities. In 1963, he called for the formation of interdemoninational groups in every state to work for strong civil rights legislation.
        "We should be in the forefront of demonstrations," he declared a year later, "to show our support for the civil rights movement."
        He published many articles and books, including "Social Principles and Economic Life." Its final edition appeared in 1966.
        He was a native of Glens Falls, N.Y. He studied at Holy Cross College in Worcester, Mass., and graduated from the Sulpician Seminary in Washington, now known as the Theological College of Catholic University of America. He was ordained in 1932 in Albany as a member of the Society of St. Sulpice, an order devoted chiefly to the education of Roman Catholic priests.
        He spent 11 years teaching economics and sociology at St. Mary's Seminary and University in Baltimore. During his 11 years as a professor there, he became increasingly involved in labor relations and an expert on socio-economic matters.
        He retired from the priesthood in 1975.
      