
        Gottfried Reinhardt, a producer, director and playwright who worked on such films as "Two-Faced Woman," "The Red Badge of Courage" and "Town Without Pity," died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 81.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Allan Parachini, a friend of the Reinhardt family.
        Mr. Reinhardt was born in Berlin, the son of the actor and director Max Reinhardt. In 1931, while a student at the University of Berlin, he produced the premiere of Erich Kastner's play "Punktchen and Anton." The following year, he left for Los Angeles to be an assistant to the director Ernst Lubitsch.
        At Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Mr. Reinhardt worked as an assistant to the producers Walter Wanger and Bernard Hyman, then wrote screenplays and produced "Comrade X" (1940), "Rage in Heaven" (1941) and "Two-Faced Woman" (1941).
        He also wrote the books for the Broadway musicals "Rosalinda" (1942), "Helen Goes to Troy" (1944) and "Polonaise" (1945).
        During World War II, he served in the Army Signal Corps, making films. After leaving the Army, he continued to produce films for MGM, including "Command Decision" (1948), "The Great Sinner" (1949) and "The Red Badge of Courage" (1951).
        In the 1960's, Mr. Reinhardt established himself as an independent producer and director, working in the United States and Europe. He produced and directed "Town Without Pity," the first postwar German-American co-production, in 1961, and "Situation Hopeless -- but Not Serious," which starred Alec Guinness, in 1965. Wrote Two Books
        In the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Reinhardt divided his time between Los Angeles and Salzburg, Austria, where he directed plays. He wrote a biography of his father, published in the United States as "The Genius" (1979), and a memoir of his experiences in film and theater, "Proscenium Loge." In recent years, he devoted his energy to establishing an arts center and archive in Berlin dedicated to his father's work.
        He is survived by his wife, Silvia, and a son, Stephen, both of Los Angeles; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      