
        Dr. Donald Frank Turner, a legal scholar and economist who was the Government's chief antitrust lawyer in the Johnson Administration, died on Tuesday in a nursing home in suburban Washington. A Washington resident, he was 73.
        The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his family said.
        Dr. Turner was appointed Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1965. During his three years in the post, he became known as a strong enforcer of the antitrust laws. He also established a set of guidelines for mergers in the private sector.
        He argued that antitrust laws should not block natural economic growth, although they should be used to keep business concentrations within bounds. As he once put it, "Substantial competitors can't merge."
        Dr. Turner took the office as a scholar well versed in both the law and economics. In his view, a corporation's being large was not necessarily an evil in itself, and he advocated always giving first consideration to the economic consequences of an antitrust move by the Government.
        Born in Chippewa Falls, Wis., the son of a Presbyterian minister, he worked his way through Northwestern University. He served in the South Pacific as a lieutenant in the Navy during World War II before receiving a doctorate in economics from Harvard University and a law degree from Yale University.
        He was a law clerk to Justice Tom Clark of the Supreme Court and joined the faculty of Harvard University Law School in 1954 as an assistant professor. He was appointed a full professor in 1957.
        He was the author, with Carl Kaysen, of "Antitrust Policy: An Economic and Legal Analysis," published in 1959. The book won esteem as a legal and economic examination of the country's antitrust laws. He returned to Harvard after his stint in Washington and was the co-author of a five-volume treatise on antitrust law and policy, "Antitrust Law," published in 1980.
        He retired in 1979 as Harvard's Bussey Professor of Law. After that, he was counsel to the Washington firm of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, a visiting professor at Georgetown University Law Center and a fellow at the Brookings Institution.
        Dr. Turner is survived by his wife of 38 years, Joan Pearson Turner; a son, Paul A., of Washington; a daughter, Katherine T. Alen of Lynnfield, Mass.; two brothers, John P., of Hudson, Wis., and W. Bard, of Lexington, Mass., and a sister, Elizabeth T. Hall of New Haven.
      