
        Dr. Harry Harris, a prominent researcher in human biochemical genetics, died on Sunday at the Dunwoody Medical Facility in Newtown Square, Pa., a suburb of Philadelphia. He was 74 and had lived at Dunwoody Village, a retirement community, since leaving the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine three years ago.
        The cause of death was complications from small strokes suffered three weeks ago, said his wife, Muriel.
        Dr. Harris, a native of Manchester, England, was one of the first scientists to determine in molecular terms how much genetic variation there is among people and was considered a leading expert in his discipline over the last four decades.
        He conducted his early research in the 1950's while head of the department of biochemistry at Kings College, University of London. Trying to understand the biochemical differences between people before it was possible to have technical access to DNA itself, he conducted experiments using the protein products of DNA from blood or urine to determine how the body works. Variations That Match
        Over the years, he deduced that variations in protein matched variations in DNA. He further demonstrated that variations in enzymes and proteins, when extreme, are responsible for genetic disease. He was one of the first to use electrophoresis and chromatography to disclose biochemical variation, with techniques still used by researchers.
        When Dr. Harris was appointed Galton Professor of Human Genetics and head of the department of genetics and biometry at University College in London, he was in the forefront of research that led to the precise gene-mapping taking place today.
        "The Human Genome Project could never have happened without that explosion of scientific interest which was partly provoked by his work," said Dr. M. Susan Lindee, an assistant professor in history and sociology of science at the University of Pennsylvania. The Federal genome project's aim is to identify all the genetic information in the human body.
        Dr. Harris, who had been Harnwell University Professor of Human Genetics at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine since 1976, was a scientific skeptic until he could prove everything to his satisfaction and was a taskmaster for his students and fellows, said Dr. Kurt Hirschhorn, chairman of pediatrics and professor of pediatrics and human genetics at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York. He and Dr. Harris edited Advances in Human Genetics, an annual publication, for the 21 years since they founded it.
        Dr. Harris particularly enjoyed students and young people, and "especially enjoyed unstuffing stuffed shirts," said Richard S. Spielman, professor of genetics at the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, who said he often saw Dr. Harris turn down dinner invitations with world-famous colleagues so he could eat with students and junior colleagues.
        In 1959 Dr. Harris published "Human Biochemical Genetics," a widely used textbook that was translated into several languages. He was the author of 340 medical papers and 8 books on human genetics, including "Prenatal Diagnosis and Selective Abortion" and "The Principles of Human Biochemical Genetics," both still in print.
        He earned his undergraduate, graduate and medical degrees from Trinity College in Cambridge, England. After serving in the Royal Air Force from 1945 to 1947, he lectured in biochemistry at University College, London. From 1961 to 1976, Dr. Harris also directed the human biomedical genetics unit of the Medical Research Council, a British governmental agency.
        He was a fellow of the Royal Society, a fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, a foreign associate of the National Academy of Sciences and winner of the William Allen Memorial Award of the American Society of Human Genetics.
        In addition to his wife, of Dunwoody Village, he is survived by a son, Jonathan Toby, two grandsons and a brother, Philip, all of London.
      