
        Hugh Scott, a moderate Republican from Pennsylvania who served in Congress for 34 years, the last 7 of them as Senate minority leader, died Thursday in a retirement home in suburban Falls Church, Va. He was 93.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said his secretary, Janet Horgan.
        The most trying episode of Mr. Scott's tenure as minority leader was the Watergate scandal and the ensuing resignation of President Richard M. Nixon, whom he supported almost until the end.
        In December 1973, for instance, as the White House coverup of the break-in at Democratic headquarters in the Watergate apartment complex the year before began to unravel, Mr. Scott urged Mr. Nixon to make public extensive audiotapes of Oval Office conversations, convinced that the tapes would clear the President of wrongdoing. Mr. Nixon resisted, however, and the tapes' subsequent disclosure, by court order, confirmed a coverup.
        Finally, on Aug. 7, 1974, with Mr. Nixon's impeachment at hand and his conviction in the Senate all but certain, Mr. Scott, along with Senator Barry Goldwater and Representative John Rhodes, the House Republican leader, went to the White House to tell the President that his Administration could not be saved. Mr. Nixon announced his resignation the next day. Breakthrough for Moderates
        Mr. Scott was elected minority leader in September 1969 in a tight three-way race, the first moderate Republican to achieve the party's Senate leadership since World War II. He maintained good relations with Republican conservatives throughout his tenure, saying at one point, "I will continue to deny that I am a liberal."
        Nevertheless, he opposed President Nixon's Supreme Court nomination of Judge Clement F. Haynsworth Jr. and the Administration's efforts to modify the Voting Rights Act.
        And, having supported the American military engagement in Vietnam during the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, he became markedly dovish under Mr. Nixon. At one point, he even advocated a unilateral American cease-fire in Vietnam, a position he later moderated.
        Hugh Doggett Scott Jr. was born on Nov. 11, 1900, in Fredericksburg, Va., on an estate that had belonged to George Washington. A great-grandfather had fought in the Confederate Army with a daring squadron under John Hunt Morgan known as the Morgan Raiders, a fact that Mr. Scott would employ to endear himself with conservative Southerners once he went to Congress.
        After receiving a bachelor's degree from Randolph Macon College and a law degree from the University of Virginia, Mr. Scott moved to Philadelphia, where in 1926 he became an assistant district attorney.
        In 1940, he was elected to Congress from Reading, Pa., and, with an interruption for wartime duty as a lieutenant in the Navy, served eight terms in the House. He also served briefly, in 1948-49, as Republican national chairman, a reward from Thomas E. Dewey for having helped Mr. Dewey wrap up the party's 1948 Presidential nomination.
        Mr. Scott won election to the Senate in 1958 and remained there until his retirement in 1977. In 1976, as his career neared an end, the Senate undertook an ethics inquiry into accusations that he had received payment from lobbyists for the Gulf Oil Corporation. He acknowledged having received $45,000 but said that the money had been legal campaign contributions and that he had not kept it for personal use. The Senate Select Committee on Standards and Conduct voted 5 to 1 not to take action against him.
        For years Mr. Scott collected Chinese art objects from the Tang dynasty, and in 1967 he published a book, "The Golden Age of Chinese Art." A confirmed smoker, he boasted a collection of 500 pipes. Bespectacled, portly, with slicked-back hair and a mustache, he was easy to pick out in a crowd of legislators.
        Mr. Scott's wife of 63 years, the former Marian Huntington Chase, died in 1987. A daughter, Marian Scott Concannon, survives.
      