
        Dr. Albert Bush-Brown, an architectural historian who headed Long Island University from 1971 to 1985 as chancellor and then president, died on Friday at his home in Barnstable, Mass. He was 68.
        He died after a brief illness, said his son, David.
        At his death, Dr. Bush-Brown was the president of Albert Bush-Brown Associates, consultants in organizing, designing and financing educational, health-care and cultural installations.
        Late in his tenure at the university, he oversaw a structural reorganization there. The institution began operating under a central management with a single president: Dr. Bush-Brown. Earlier it had functioned with a chancellor -- also Dr. Bush-Brown -- and individual presidents for each campus. Resigned in 1985
        In 1984, when Dr. Bush-Brown announced, without giving a reason, that he was resigning and would step down in 1985, William Zeckendorf Jr., a real-estate developer and senior vice president of the university's board of trustees, said "He has been a splendid leader."
        But the university suffered strains during Dr. Bush-Brown's time there, and he came in for criticism. For his part, he contended that the roots of many of the institution's problems predated his arrival and that his reorganization had helped to buttress the central administration.
        In early 1985, the university had 20,000 students at its main campuses in Brooklyn and in Brookville and Southampton, L.I., and at branches in Brentwood, L.I., Dobbs Ferry in Westchester County and Sparkill in Rockland County.
        Before going to Long Island University, Dr. Bush-Brown was vice president for facilities planning at SUNY, Buffalo, from 1968 to 1971 and the president of the Rhode Island School of Design from 1962 to 1968. From 1949 to 1962, he taught courses on art, architecture and kindred subjects successively at Princeton, Harvard, Western Reserve in Cleveland and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Myriad Difficulties
        In becoming Long Island University's chancellor, Dr. Bush-Brown succeeded Glenn W. Ferguson, who left to become president of Clark University in Worcester, Mass. The strains at the university during Dr. Bush-Brown's time there included faculty strikes at the Brooklyn campus, a deficit in 1983 after years of surpluses and a critical accreditation report in 1983 from the Middle States Commission on Higher Education.
        In December 1984 the faculty councils of two of the university's campuses endorsed a resolution asking for Dr. Bush-Brown's immediate removal and contending that his policies had "depleted the institution's limited resources, injured its academic reputation and divided its faculties and administration."
        Around that time, he said in an interview that many of the university's problems had been caused by events that took place before he had arrived there. And he called it "a complex of multi-campuses and multi-unions with a history of trying to wed dissimilar things."
        In July 1985, he was succeeded by Dr. David J. Steinberg, a historian and a former vice president of Brandeis University.
        Dr. Bush-Brown was a member of the National Council on the Arts from 1965 to 1970, a special adviser to the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in 1968 and 1969 and a member of the board of governors of the University of Pennsylvania School of the Arts from 1975 to 1985. Author of Several Books
        His many writings included the books "Louis Sullivan" (1960) and "The Architecture of America: A Social Interpretation" (1961), of which he was a co-author. He was also an editor of "Hospitable Design for Healthcare and Senior Communities" (Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1991).
        He was born in West Hartford, Conn., grew up in the Philadelphia area, served in the Navy in World War II and received three degrees from Princeton: an A.B. in 1947, a master's degree in fine arts in 1949 and a Ph.D. in Architecture in 1958.
        He was on the board of managing directors of the Metropolitan Opera from 1976 to 1985 and chairman of the board of Barclays Bank of New York from 1981 to 1989.
        He he was awarded fellowships by Princeton, Harvard and other institutions and several honorary degrees.
        In addition to his son, David, he is survived by his wife, the former Frances Wesselhoeft, to whom he was married in 1948; three daughters, Frances Thompson, Lesley Gimbel and Martha Risom, and eight grandchildren.
      