
        Dr. John Victor Taggart 3d, who headed the Physiology Department at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons for 20 years and was known for his cellular research on the kidneys, died on Saturday at the Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Bedford, N.Y.
        The cause was heart failure after a long illness, said a spokesman for the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, where he taught and studied.
        Dr. Taggart was appointed a professor of medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1958. In 1962, he was appointed a professor of physiology as well as the department's chairman. He was a professor of medicine and the Dalton Professor of Physiology when he retired in 1982.
        He became known for his research on the mechanism of cellular transport, the means by which substances like chemicals and hormones move from one cell to another. He found that the kidney was particularly well suited for studying the phenomenon and became one of the first scientists to use in-vitro systems to study the mechanisms.
        The American Heart Association gave him an annual subsidy for basic medical research in 1952, to last for the duration of his career. That year, he also received the Edward H. Gibbs memorial prize from the Academy of Medicine for his work in renal physiology. In 1989, Columbia awarded him its Distinguished Service Medal.
        Dr. Taggart was born in Brigham, Utah, and raised in Los Angeles. He received his medical degree from the University of Southern California. He completed his internship at the Los Angeles County General Hospital.
        As an assistant in medicine and an instructor at New York University in the 1940's, he took part in a program studying drugs to treat malaria. He joined the Columbia faculty in 1946 as a researcher and instructor in medicine.
        He is survived by his wife of 35 years, Theodora Janeway Lannon Taggart.
        Correction:  August 4, 1994, Thursday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary last Thursday about a physician who headed the physiology department at Columbia University for 20 years referred to him erroneously at one point in some editions. He was Dr. John V. Taggart 3d; Dalton was the name of the professorship he held.
      