
        Robert O. Schlaifer, an expert on managerial economics and the ingredients that go into business decisions, died on Sunday at his home in Arlington, Mass. He was 79.
        The cause was lung cancer, according to the Harvard Business School, where he was the William Ziegler Professor of Business Administration emeritus.
        Professor Schlaifer (pronounced SHLAY-fer) joined the Graduate School of Business Administration in 1947. Together with Howard Raiffa, a statistician and game theorist, he mapped out an area of study at the school known as managerial economics. It provides the methodology for a systematic analysis of the economic aspects of business.
        Concluding that statistics by themselves are virtually useless for making informed business decisions, Professor Schlaifer turned to the work of an 18th-century English mathematician, Thomas Bayes. It was Bayes who first used probability inductively and established a mathematical basis for probability inference.
        This type of analysis enabled Professor Schlaifer to arrive at a method of quantifying subjective knowledge. The result was a decision theory and tools like the "decision trees" used in the curriculums of business schools for reviewing the choices and uncertainties encountered in real business situations.
        Robert Osher Schlaifer, a native of Vermillion, S.D., graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Amherst College. He attended the American School of Classical Studies in Athens and earned a Ph.D. in ancient history at Harvard in 1940.
        A prolific author, his first articles were devoted to classical Greece and became part of "Harvard Studies in Classical Philology." In the early 1940's he taught history, economics and physics at the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at Harvard.
        In World War II, he worked as a physicist for the Underwater Sound Laboratory, first at Harvard and then at Pennsylvania State University. He returned to Harvard as a member of the business faculty and retired in 1985. After that, he completed his latest interactive software package called Analysis of Quantitative Data, a set of programs he developed to make the analysis of statistical data accessible to the layman.
        He was the author or co-author of books and many articles. His "Probability and Statistics for Business Decisions," first published in 1959, became a classic in the field.
        Professor Schlaifer is survived by his wife of 54 years, Genevieve Domergue Schlaifer; a son, Peter of Manhattan; a daughter, Renee Westland of Keene, N.H., and three grandchildren.
      