
        James Luther Adams, a theologian who was an authority on ethics, died on Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 92.
        The cause was heart failure, said Jack Kleis of the Rogers Funeral Home in Cambridge.
        Professor Adams retired in 1968 as the Edward Mallinckrodt Jr. Professor of  Divinity at Harvard Divinity School, where he began teaching in 1956. The dean of the school, Ronald F. Thiemann, said: "Our programs in religion and public life are in many ways the legacy of his pioneering work."
        Emphasis on Ethics
        In 1968, Professor Adams began four years as Distinguished Professor of Social Ethics at Andover Newton Theological School in Newton, Mass. Before joining the Harvard faculty, he taught religious ethics at the University of Chicago.
        Over the years, he was greatly interested in issues lying at the intersection of religion, public policy and social responsibility. The topics on which he lectured included religious issues in law, economics and civic affairs. He had been co-director of a Harvard Business School seminar on religion and public-policy decision making and president of the Society for the Arts, Religion and Contemporary Culture.
        Professor Adams was also an authority on the philosopher and theologian Paul Tillich, who died in 1965, and his book "Paul Tillich's Philosophy of Culture, Science and Religion" was praised after it came out in 1965 as the most substantial and perceptive study of Tillich to appear until until then.
        Professor Adams's many other writings included the book "An Examined Faith:  Social Context and Religious Commitment" (1991, Beacon Press).
        He was born in Ritzville, Wash., received an A.B. from the University of Minnesota in 1924, a bachelor's degree in divinity and a master's degree from Harvard in 1927 and 1930 and a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1947.
        After being ordained to the Unitarian ministry, he was a minister at churches in Massachusetts from 1927 to 1935. He married Margaret Ann Young in 1927; she died in 1978.
        Professor Adams is survived by three daughters, M. Louise Adams of Bethesda, Md., Elaine Miller of Madison, Wis., and Barbara Thompson of Oak Park, Ill.; seven grandchildren; and two sisters, Lula Hage and Mary Ella Adams, both of Spokane, Wash.
        A memorial service will be held at a date to be determined later.
      