
        Edward J. Carlough, a former president of the Sheet Metal Workers' International Association and one of organized labor's most influential leaders  in the last 20 years, died on Wednesday during a trip to New Bern, N.C. He was 62 and lived in Rockville, Md.
        His family said he died of cancer.
        Mr. Carlough was born into the labor movement in New York City where his father, Edward F. Carlough, was president of the sheet metal workers' union until his son succeeded him in 1970. Within a short time, the new union president became a biting critic of big business and the Nixon Administration, accusing business of reaping huge profits at the expense of workers and accusing President Richard M. Nixon of allowing it to occur.
        In an article critical of wage controls in The New York Times in 1973, he said, "We won't buy a straitjacket for our members' wages while the price jackals roam the countryside."
        Goals as Leader
        In addition to putting pressure on corporations and big government, Mr. Carlough also tried to improve pension, health and training programs for union members. In his last years as president, he emphasized the union's international programs, particularly in Poland, where he helped the government and labor unions create more jobs and acquire new technology.
        Mr. Carlough began his involvement with unions as a 17-year-old apprentice sheet metal worker in the Bronx in 1949. In 1956, he was named to the Labor's League for Political Education; he was later director of research and organizing for the international union and its 270 locals. He retired as president last year.
        He attended Colby College in Waterville, Me., and graduated from American University in Washington with a bachelor's degree.
        Last year, he was the first labor leader to be awarded the American Institute of Architects' honorary A.I.A. award. In 1976, he received Israel's Prime Minister Medal.
        He is survived by his wife, June; three daughters, Layne Carlough-McCarthy of Huntington, L.I., Tracey Abrams, of Sharon, Mass., and Gail Carlough-Lego, of Rockville; a son, Christopher, of Laurel, Md.; his mother, Florence, and a brother, Walter, both of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Grace Hagen, of West Islip,  L.I., and six grandchildren.
      