
        Gerard Coad Smith, a principal arms negotiator for the Nixon and Carter Administrations, an expert in the intricacies of nuclear weaponry, as well as a noted lawyer, died on Monday in Easton (Md.) Memorial Hospital. He was 80 years old and had lived in Easton since moving from Washington in 1989.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Smith spent three decades in public service, starting in 1950 when he went to Washington as special assistant to the head of the Atomic Energy Commission, Thomas E. Murphy. He stayed in Washington for most of the life and devoted himself to improving communication and understanding among countries.
        President Richard M. Nixon made him head of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency in 1969. As such, he led the American delegation to the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, or SALT. One of his accomplishments was the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty signed by Mr.  Nixon at a Moscow summit meeting.
        He resigned the next year to assist David Rockefeller in founding the Trilateral Commission for policy talks among Japanese, European and American leaders. From 1973 to 1977 he led the North American delegation at such gatherings, practicing law in Washington at the same time.
        "Gerry was a terribly successful lawyer from a wealthy family," a Washington friend said at the time of the SALT apppointment. "But he is one of those privileged persons who believed he had a responsibility to serve."
        Occasion for that arose once more when President Jimmy Carter appointed Mr. Smith as Special Representative and Ambassador-at-large for Nuclear Nonproliferation. He traveled to Japan, Argentina, Brazil and South Africa seeking to persuade those countries not to acquire nuclear weapons.
        At the same time he served as Chief United States Delegate to the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. When he left the Government in 1981, Mr. Carter decorated him with the Medal of Freedom.
        Mr. Smith was a special adviser to the State Department in 1963 when President John F. Kennedy announced that the so-called hot line between the White House and the Kremlin had been installed. The President wrote to Mr. Smith, congratulating him on an idea Mr. Smith had "first proposed" five years before. Gave Idea to Eisenhower
        Mr. Smith had recommended a direct communications hookup with Moscow to President Dwight D. Eisenhower, but there were other claimants to the idea.
        "Success has many fathers," Mr. Smith said. "I make no claims to the hot-line idea except that President Kennedy believes I originated it."
        Mr. Smith was born in Manhattan, a son of John Thomas Smith, chief lawyer for General Motors from 1910 to 1947. He graduated from Yale College and Law School, was admitted to the New York bar in 1939 and joined the General Motors legal staff.
        In May 1941 he entered the Navy as an ensign and left in 1945 as a lieutenant. From then until he went to Washington, he was in private practice in New York.
        After his stint with the Atomic Energy Commission, he assisted Secretary of State John Foster Dulles with atomic energy issues. He then directed the policy-planning staff as an Assistant Secretary of Staff and, during the Kennedy Administration, conducted negotiations on the concept of a multilateral nuclear force in Europe and an Allied fleet of nuclear vessels.
        During the last 14 years, he wrote, testified on nuclear issues and headed the Arms Control Association of the United States, the Washington Council for Non-Proliferation and the Committee to Save the ABM Treaty. He was a co-author of a 1982 article urging that the United States pledge itself to "no first use" of nuclear weapons and advised the American Catholic Bishops in the preparation of a Pastoral Letter on Nuclear Deterrence.
        Mr. Smith wrote a history of the first SALT negotiations, "Doubletalk" (1985), along with many articles on nuclear policy and diplomacy. At his death he had just completed a memoir of his long involvement in those matters, and his family expects the book to be published.
        In 1981 he founded Consultants International Group and worked with it until his retirement to Easton.
        Mr. Smith is survived by his daughter, Sheila Smith Griffin of Washington; three sons, John T. 2d of Washington, Gerard L. of Manhattan, and Hugh M. of Easton; 11 grandchildren and one great-grandson. His wife of 46 years, Bernice Latrobe Smith, died in 1987.
      