
        Francis Eugene Ferguson, retired chairman of Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Phoenix. He was 72 and had homes in Scottsdale, Ariz., and Milwaukee.
        He had had a long respiratory illness, the company said.
        Mr. Ferguson was elected president and trustee of Northwestern Mutual in 1967 and named chief executive the following year. He became chairman in 1980 and served as both chairman and chief executive until 1983. He retired as chairman in 1985 and from the board in 1991.
        Under his stewardship, Northwestern Mutual's assets more than doubled to more than $13 billion in 1983 from $5.7 billion in 1968. Most recently, the company posted assets of $35.7 billion.
        "As C.E.O., he successfully led the company through the turbulent economy of the 1970's and early 1980's," said James D. Erickson, president and chief executive of Northwestern Mutual. "He also played a leadership role in the insurance industry as it coped with the effects of runaway inflation." Civic Projects
        As a civic leader, Mr. Ferguson helped to invigorate the Wisconsin State Fair, bring the baseball Brewers to Milwaukee and revitalize downtown around Grand Avenue. He was a past campaign chairman for United Way, president of the Milwaukee Redevelopment Corporation and board chairman of the state fair.
        He was born in Batavia, N.Y. In World War II, he served in the Army Air Forces, reaching the rank of captain. Piloting a B-17 bomber, he was shot down over Schweinfurt, Germany, and spent 19 months in a prisoner-of-war camp. After the war, he returned to Michigan State University and received a degree in agricultural economics in 1947.
        He joined Northwestern Mutual in 1951 as an economic specialist in the mortgage-loan department.
        Mr. Ferguson is survived by his wife of 48 years, Patricia Reddy Ferguson; two daughters, Susan Bonneau of Milwaukee and Penny Pratt of Hastings, Neb., and four grandchildren.
      