
        Michael J. Petrides, a key member of the majority faction of the New York City Board of Education and an adviser to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, died early  yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 53.
        The cause was cancer, said James P. Molinaro, Staten Island's deputy borough  president and a close friend. After Mr. Petrides's left lung was removed last fall, he experienced a partial recovery, but he was hospitalized again in early  June and never recovered.
        Michael Petrides brought this city's educational system through struggles that threatened to rip it apart, and by the force of his leadership held it together," Mr. Giuliani said. "He dedicated his life to improving education, and as a board member, as a dean and as a teacher, he accomplished the goals he set  for himself. He was also a very close friend. He will be greatly missed."
        Political Strategist
        Mr. Petrides, a shrewd political strategist, was the intellectual leader of  the four-member board majority that ousted Chancellor Joseph A. Fernandez last year after a showdown over the distribution of condoms in high schools and a series of other disputes. Mr. Petrides was influential in the hiring of Ramon C. Cortines as Chancellor last August, and after campaigning for Mr. Giuliani's election, he became the Mayor's unpaid educational adviser in January.
        His parallel roles at the board and at City Hall made him an important behind-the-scenes intermediary between the Mayor and the Chancellor during their public battles over the budget and revamping the school bureaucracy.
        Mr. Petrides's death casts a cloud of uncertainty over the board's future at  a time of transition. On July 5 the board is to begin a new four-year term, with two recently appointed members from Brooklyn and the Bronx, and an election is scheduled for July 12 for board president. Carol A. Gresser, the current president, has been expected to win re-election, but she is herself recovering from heart bypass surgery.
        Crucial Unifying Role
        Mr. Petrides helped forge the four-member majority that has controlled the board for two years, and in recent months he has played a crucial unifying role  within it.
        "He was pure brains," said Dennis Walcott, a board member appointed by former Mayor David N. Dinkins who has often been an adversary of Mr. Petrides. "Michael was an amazing strategist, always thinking ahead."
        Mr. Petrides was born in Manhattan on March 20, 1941, the second son of a Greek immigrant. After earning a master's degree in electrical engineering from  New York University, Mr. Petrides held a variety of academic posts at the College of Staten Island during a 29-year career, including professor of electrical technology and dean of administration.
        His first political post in education began in 1973, when he was elected to Community School Board 31 on Staten Island, and he became its president the next year.
        Molinari's Campaign Manager
        A Republican, he became a close friend and political ally during the 1970's  of Guy V. Molinari, who was then a State Assemblyman. In 1980 Mr. Petrides managed Mr. Molinari's victorious campaign for Congress to unseat Representative John M. Murphy.
        In July 1990, when Mr. Molinari, who had become Borough President, appointed  Mr. Petrides to the Board of Education, Mayor Dinkins and Chancellor Fernandez could expect to muster a working majority of at least five members on most issues. But just three months later, Mr. Petrides challenged Mr. Fernandez over the plan to distribute condoms.
        "Will the next step be the distribution of hypodermic needles?" he asked in one meeting -- and began to forge a new, more conservative majority. Mr. Fernandez's aides called the new majority faction the Gang of Four.
        After leading the faction in Mr. Fernandez's ouster in February 1993, Mr. Petrides helped hire and install Mr. Cortines. Last fall he channeled his energies into Mr. Giuliani's campaign, and this year he drafted a plan for the Mayor to decentralize the school system, Mr. Molinari said.
        Mr. Petrides is survived by his wife, Marlene Dietrich; three daughters, Vanessa, Annie and Joanne, and two sons, Michael Jr. and John.
      