
        John S. R. Shad, a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission who had previously been a powerful figure on Wall Street, died on Thursday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Shad died after heart surgery, said his daughter, Leslie.
        The first Wall Street executive to head the S.E.C. in 50 years, Mr. Shad was appointed by President Reagan in 1981 and served until 1987. His chairmanship was the longest in the history of the S.E.C., an independent Federal agency established to protect the investing public against malpractice in the securities markets.
        Before entering Government service, Mr. Shad was vice chairman of E. F. Hutton & Company, a big securities house that was later acquired by the firm now called Smith Barney. He was largely responsible for creating Hutton's investment banking operations and was in charge of its corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions departments.
        At the S.E.C., Mr. Shad began a record number of cases concerning the illegal use of insider trading by people with access to key corporate information before it became available to the public. He emphasized his desire to curb insider trading by saying that the commission would come down on it "with hobnail boots." Two-Sided View of Takeovers
        But Mr. Shad saw less urgency in taking a firm stand on the problems of debt-financed hostile takeovers. Although he gave a speech to the New York Financial Writers Association in 1984 pointing out the dangers of takeovers financed by high-risk, high-yield junk bonds, he believed that the wave of these mergers and acquisitions in the 1980's generally rewarded stockholders and forced corporate managements to do a better job.
        Mr. Shad was born in Utah and raised in California. He had degrees from the University of Southern California, the Harvard Business School and the New York University Law School. During World War II, Mr. Shad was a naval officer in the Pacific and China.
        He began his Wall Street career in 1949 as a securities analyst, working for Value Line Inc., an investment advisory service, and Shearson, Hamill & Company, now also part of Smith Barney. But it was at Hutton, where he was recruited in 1963, that he first made his mark by bringing the firm, founded in California, into the big-money world of deal making.
        Mr. Shad quickly rose to a leadership position at Hutton. He was known as a man who loved doing deals but who found administrative duties tiresome. By focusing on smaller, second-tier companies that were then unattractive clients to the big old-line investment banking concerns, Mr. Shad and his associates originated billions of dollars worth of corporate financial transactions. Executive Competition
        In 1970, Mr. Shad suffered a painful defeat when he lost a bitter campaign to become chairman of Hutton. After a power struggle, the West Coast executives of the firm, led by Alec R. Jack and Robert M. Fomon, emerged as the victors. Mr. Fomon, who was later elected to the top spot, then began to criticize the work of the departments under Mr. Shad's supervision.
        A lifelong Republican, Mr. Shad was one of the first Wall Streeters to support Mr. Reagan's Presidential campaign in 1980 and headed his New York fund-raising efforts. After President Reagan named him chairman of the S.E.C., Mr. Shad moved quickly to take control of it, foster deregulation and put his free-market theories into practice.
        He left the commission in June 1987, only four months before the stock market crash, to become Ambassador to the Netherlands. In March of that year, he donated about $20 million to the Harvard Business School to establish its Leadership and Ethics Program.
        In 1989, Mr. Shad was asked by the Justice Department to become chairman of the scandal-plagued Drexel Burnham Lambert. The chief executive of the firm, Frederick H. Joseph, had been hired in his first job, at Hutton, by Mr. Shad. Mr. Shad remained at Drexel until 1990 as it settled criminal and civil charges involving securities law violations and paid $650 million in fines and other penalties.
        Mr. Shad's wife, Patricia, died in 1988. In addition to his daughter, who lives in Atlanta, he is survived by a son, Rees, of Argyle, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      