
        Robert Levi Rooke, a broker who became a partner in Merrill Lynch & Company in 1928 and who dealt in stocks until a month ago, died on Monday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. A former resident of Westfield, N.J., he was 103.
        The cause was complications from a stroke he suffered two weeks ago, his family said.
        After answering a help-wanted advertisement, Mr. Rooke went to work for Merrill Lynch in 1919 as a bond salesman, making $50 a month. He later became a
        friend of Charles E. Merrill, the firm's founder. At his death he was believed to be the oldest ember of the New York Stock Exchange, having held a seat there  since 1928.
        Born in Winfield, Pa., he graduated from Bucknell University in 1913 with a degree in electrical engineering. During World War I, he was an enlisted man in  the United States Navy. Just before and after the war he worked for the General  Electric Company and Public Service Electric in New Jersey.
        After joining Merrill Lynch, he advanced quickly, becoming a partner in 1928  and the firm's floor representative at the exchange. He oversaw the firm's trading during the Great Crash of 1929.
        Mr. Rooke later founded the firm's office in Newark but kept his seat on the  New York Stock Exchange. He never fully retired, maintaining an office at the firm's branch in Morristown, N.J., from which he dealt in stocks until a month ago.
        He contributed to many causes and institutions, especially to his alma mater  Bucknell, becoming a trustee emeritus in 1975. Over the years he helped build the Rooke Chapel, named in honor of his parents, as well as Bucknell's
        Freas-Rooke Swimming Pool and Freas-Rooke Computer Center. In honor of his 100th birthday Merrill Lynch dedicated a new Rooke Management Case-Studies Room in Bucknell's Rooke Chemistry Building.
        He is survived by a daughter, Dorothy R. McCulloch of Barrington, R.I.; two sons, Robert C. and William W., both of Harding Township, N.J.; 13 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.
      