
        By the time Kim Il Sung died on Friday at the age of 82, there was not one "Great Leader" running North Korea. There were three.
        There was the man seen around the world as a Stalinist maniac, who 44 years ago sent his troops pouring over the 38th parallel to unify the Korean Peninsula on his own terms, and who four decades later burst again onto the front pages as a man in search of a nuclear bomb to save his regime. This was the Kim who intimidated his neighbors into silence, who used his unpredictability as a weapon.
        There was the Kim Il Sung of North Korean myth, whose likeness dominates Pyongyang and every town square in the form of 30,000 statues, the man who was lionized in song as the "sun of the country" for single-handedly defeating two enemies in one generation: Japan and the United States.
        And, in recent years, there was the grandfatherly Kim Il Sung, the smiling leader seeking respect for his economically disabled nation, the man who three weeks ago embraced Jimmy Carter and used him as a conduit to President Clinton, who was not yet born when Mr. Kim was installed as North Korea's leader. It was that incarnation of Mr. Kim that led the former President to declare, with little hint of skepticism, that a "miracle" had occurred. One of the world's most fearsome dictators actually sounded reasonable and eager to end his confrontation with the West.
        They were all images that Mr. Kim, the peasants' son who went on to become the longest-surviving Communist leader of the cold war, knew how to exploit brilliantly.  When his death came early Friday morning, he had been staging a remarkable international comeback, a shadow from the old newsreels of the Korean War who thrust himself into the atomic glare of the 1990's. An Enduring Puzzle To the Outside World
        For those who met him, he was the incongruous dictator of a hard and unforgiving land. Former Representative Stephen J. Solarz of Brooklyn, who met Mr. Kim twice, said a few days ago:
        "He has this avuncular persona that stands in stark contrast to the reality of the regime, which is without question the most ruthless and tyrannical anywhere in the world. It is like meeting Hitler at Berchtesgaden and commenting on how he got along with the dogs and the children. He has the blood of millions on his hands; he has a society based on Orwell's '1984.'
        "So you expect someone who will act like Saddam Hussein, a forbidding, threatening presence. And he is just the opposite, always smiling, always speaking softly."
        In fact, to step into Kim Il Sung's North Korea was to enter a laboratory from Orwell's wildest imaginings: a country that could not afford to keep the lights on at night, and yet which built -- but may never open -- Asia's tallest hotel, a country where the people seemed almost robotic in their praise of their leader and his son, Kim Jong Il, his presumed successor.
        Millions of North Koreans, until this morning's news, have never lived in a country not run by Kim Il Sung.
        During his rule North Koreans were urged to devote at least two hours a day, and four on Saturdays, to "Kim study," memorizing his sayings. His birthday was, for decades, the nation's greatest holiday, celebrated with "mass games" in which North Korean youth performed remarkable gymnastic feats.
        It is a country of operas like "My Happy Country with a Great Leader," whose lyrics include:
        O, Generalissimo, Kim Il Sung, Our fatherly leader!  The people are unfailingly loyal to you! Our party is the best in the world! Socialism is the best in the world! Let's defend Socialism, Under the unfurled red banner!
        Mr. Kim seemed, in every public utterance, to be nothing short of a god. Everything North Koreans received from the government -- clothes, rice, apartments -- were said to come directly from "the Great Leader" or "the Dear Leader," his son.
        Pyongyang considered 50,000 new apartments to be the Great Leader's birthday gifts to his people. But when a reporter toured these "gifts," no one discussed the fact that there was little heat and electricity.
        "You have to remember that at home, President Kim Il Sung is treated as a combination of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson and Abe Lincoln," Mr. Carter said this week in Tokyo.
        Mr. Kim's philosophy centered on the principle he called "juche," which he said meant "holding fast to the principle of solving for oneself all the problems of the revolution and construction of one's own efforts." This was to be accomplished, he added, while "applying the universal truth of Marxism-Leninism."
        He held every important post in the country, including General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Korea, its one party, and President of the country. And when he died, no one had yet really figured out his game: whether he was using the threat of an atomic weapon to get economic aid for his bankrupt country, or whether he was wielding it as a suicide pill to save his regime from absorption by the South.
        "It is possible," one American official who has met Mr. Kim, said today, "that we will now never know." From Humble Origins, A Steep Climb to Power
        Kim Il Sung was born to a peasant couple in a small, mud-walled house on the outskirts of Pyongyang on April 15, 1912, shortly after the Japanese began their formal occupation of Korea. For years that house has been visited daily by thousands of North Koreans.
        Mr. Kim often used his simple birthplace to contrast his own early life with Pyongyang's American missionaries and Japanese residents. "In the 'Westerners village,' at the time inhabited by Americans and the Japanese settlers, brick houses, shops and churches increased in number," he recalled vividly many decades later, but across town "the slum quarters were getting bigger."
        It is nearly impossible to separate truth and fiction in the state-sponsored mythology about Kim Il Sung's youth, but in all the stories there is a constant subtext: Mr. Kim's struggles against greater powers around him, particularly America and Japan.
        Those two countries controlled the world in Mr. Kim's view, and it was the Kim family's destiny to battle them. In his memoirs, published two years ago, Mr. Kim maintained that his great-grandfather set fire to the General Sherman, a "U.S. imperialist aggressors' ship" because its crew went about "stealing the people's possessions and raping the women" while sailing up the Taedong River to Pyongyang in 1866. Mr. Kim's biographer at the University of Hawaii, Suh Dae Sook, calls these stories "politically motivated fabrications." but most of them seem impossible to verify or disprove.
        Whether the stories are true or not, the myths have become the man.
        Mr. Kim said he was a schoolchild when he committed his first act of rebellion against the Japanese occupiers, using a pocket knife to scratch off the title "Mother Tongue Reader" from the textbook issued by the Japanese colonial government, which required children to speak only Japanese. He said he wrote "Japanese Reader" on the cover, and from that moment, "whenever I saw children trying to learn Japanese, I told them Koreans must speak Korean."
        Neither his memoirs nor official biographies dwell on the fact that he spent most of his youth in Manchuria, where he learned Chinese. That later turned out to be a crucial skill, as he joined China's communist guerrillas. And it was from China that Kim obtained the Communist philosophy that he combined with the nationalist mission his father bequeathed him -- along with two pistols -- on his deathbed in 1926: to free the peninsula from Japanese domination. Images of Resistance, Masterfully Manipulated
        Mr. Kim served as an anti-Japanese guerrilla in Manchuria, Siberia and the North Korean border areas, but it is impossible to verify the claims of his astounding feats, including the killing of a unit of Japanese special police who were tracking him in 1940. The next year, he was forced to retreat to the Soviet Union for the remainder of the war. He makes no mention of that time, perhaps because it would be too obvious that his son, the "Dear Leader," was born there in February 1942, instead of on Korea's own soil. Mr. Kim was married to Kim Chong Suk, who died in 1949.
        When he reappeared in Korea in late 1945, after the Soviet Union was already administering the area, it was in the uniform of a Soviet major. It was a ticket back home: At the war's end, the country was cut roughly in half at the 38th parallel, with the Soviet Union assuming the temporary occupation of the northern part and the United States the occupation of the southern zone. Reunification of the nation was the Allies' announced goal.  Quickly, and with Stalin's apparent backing, he took control of the Korean Workers Party and called for a reunification under Communist control.
        Of course, Mr. Kim's emergence was a far more complicated than the official accounts suggest. When he returned to Korea after 20 years' absence, his Communist party was tiny, outnumbered by other nationalist groups. But he rose to power by denouncing the "lackeys" of the Japanese and the Americans, and wiped out many of his enemies -- 60,000 people in his first purge.
        The Democratic People's Republic of Korea was created in September 1948 after the United States organized the first government in the South, the Republic of Korea.
        When Mr. Kim led an invading army into the South in June 1950 -- a scene of carnage that today seems a world away from modern Seoul -- the Truman Administration saw the takeover as the first step in a far broader Communist plot, directed from Moscow and Beijing, to seize much of Asia.
        But a remarkable new study published earlier this year by Stanford University Press, one that is fairly chilling read in the context of the current nuclear standoff, shows that it was Kim Il Sung who did all the plotting. Documents recently made available in Russia, along with others that have slipped out of China, indicate that Mr. Kim was convinced he could take the South in three days.
        His forces met little resistance in the first weeks, and by early September had driven the South Korean Army and its American allies to the Pusan area, at the southeastern tip of the Korean peninsula.
        After a brilliant beginning, Mr. Kim's war plans went astray. He was surprised when, five days after his soldiers began streaming across the 38th parallel, President Harry S. Truman authorized American land, sea and air forces to go to South Korea's aid. Eventually 15 other nations responded to the United Nations call for help. Led by Gen. Douglas MacArthur, they reacted with a counteroffensive on Sept. 15, staging a large-scale invasion at Inchon, a conquered South Korean port on the west coast about 20 miles from Seoul. MacArthur's forces pursued them back over the parallel and, on Oct. 19, captured Pyongyang. By late November Mr. Kim and his troops had been driven almost to the Yalu River on the Chinese border.
        But he was a wily strategist, and with "volunteers" from the Chinese Army and Air Force and some from the Soviet Union he recaptured Seoul in January 1951 and held it briefly. For the rest of the war bitter fighting was centered nearby and roughly along the 38th parallel.
        MacArthur, who wanted to carry out another invasion of North Korea, advance beyond the Yalu into China and mount a full-scale assault on Communism, was relieved of his command by Truman.
        As talks on a truce dragged on, battles continued. Finally an armistice was signed on July 27, 1953, ending the war that Mr. Kim had thought would reunite Korea under his control. It was a dream he never gave up.
        According to official South Korean statistics, roughly 225,800 South Korean troops were killed in the war, along with 294,150 North Koreans, 184,000 Chinese and 57,440 United Nations troops, of whom more than 54,000 were Americans. In addition, 250,000 civilians are estimated to have been killed in combat, and millions were left homeless on both sides of the border. Rivals Eliminated, Power Consolidated
        Mr. Kim emerged in a position to wipe out his remaining rivals. In later years he was to send his political enemies to work in the uranium mines, where the life expectancy was about two years. Those mines turned out to be critical assets. Years later he never forgot the threats issued by MacArthur and Truman, that the Americans might end the war with a mushroom cloud. The fear that the North could be subject to nuclear attack from the United States, to many minds, was the real start of North Korea's nuclear program.
        At the end of the war, it seemed as if the North was destined to be the truly successful Korea. It had abundant natural resources, and with Chinese and Soviet help, Mr. Kim began an ambitious program of rehabilitation and industrialization with Soviet-model collective farms and heavy industry. A propaganda campaign led citizens to believe their country was an oasis of wealth and stability in a world impoverished by cruel capitalism. They had no way to see or hear about anything else: To this day there is no television from outside the country and no foreign publications allowed. The few foreign visitors are kept on a tight leash.
        Mr. Kim courted his allies, but kept a measure of independence. In a single week in 1961, he signed treaties of friendship, cooperation and mutual military and economic assistance with both China and the Soviet Union. He continued to accept aid from both countries when the need arose. Through the years that need arose increasingly often.
        The cost of the country's huge army took its toll on the economy. The DMZ, along the 38th parallel, became a eerie landscape of mines, tank traps and heavy artillery, and remains so to this day. Both sides built up enormous forces: Mr. Kim installed artillery that could shell Seoul from the North. But Mr. Kim also worried about his Communist allies. He was eager to maintain his slightly distant relationship with China and the Soviets, juggling them to keep from getting crushed.
        In 1968, as the Vietnam War raged, North Korea and Mr. Kim surged into the headlines again. The North seized an American intelligence ship, the Pueblo, and its crew stayed in prison for 11 months. In 1972 there were the first gestures of peace to the South, called the Red Cross Talks, in which both sides talked of allowing families divided by the war to meet. But those negotiations broke off and were not resumed for 18 years.
        The country began its slow spiral down in the 1970's. South Korea, with twice the population and a booming economy built on steel, cars, computer chips and other consumer goods, began to pull ahead: its economic growth was far faster, and the South's per capita income in 1990 was five times higher than the North's.
        With the end of the cold war came the greatest blow of all: An end to the subsidies from Russia and, to some extent, from China that kept the North Korean economy going. Since 1989, by South Korean estimates, the North's gross domestic product has actually shrunk 2 or 3 percent a year.
        For decades the Kims had been building a nuclear complex at Yongbyon, a mountainous area 60 miles north of the capital. Around 1980, construction began on a 25-megawatt reactor, that American intelligence agencies argued that the plant was designed for making plutonium, not for making electricity.
        The cat-and-mouse game over the past few years has been all about the North's progress in building that technology, while denying it.
        But every time there was talk of finally taking action regarding North Korea's nuclear development, the Asian allies fretted that Mr. Kim should not be provoked. The warning lights became impossible to ignore in March 1993, when the North announced it would pull out of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty rather than face continued pressure for disclosure and inspections. Their withdrawal was later suspended, but inspectors were kept out.
        When North Korea began removing more fuel from its reactor this spring, potentially creating material for five more nuclear weapons, the United States moved for United Nations sanctions.
        As fears of a confrontation grew, the United States sent more equipment to its bases in Japan and South Korea, from Patriot missiles to ammunition to laser-guided bombs.
        In the last weeks of his life, Mr. Kim had one brilliant maneuver left. He let Mr. Carter, who was deeply opposed to sanctions, take up a two-year-old invitation to come visit Pyongyang as a private citizen. After the first night of talks, Mr. Carter went on television to announce that the Great Leader was ready to deal: He would freeze the country's nuclear program while the United States talked about a range of diplomatic and economic benefits that might end the North's isolation from the world. Meanwhile, international inspectors, who had been barred from parts of the nuclear sites, could stay there.  The Clinton Administration was suspicious, but eventually dove through the opening. Mr Carter also emerged with an invitation from the South: A summit meeting between the Presidents of North and South Korea, a first since the peninsula was divided in 1945. Five decades after Asia's the war ended in a precarious stalemate, it would have been a symbolic melting of the last Cold War division. For many Koreans it would have undoubtedly raised a surge of nationalism that Kim Il Sung would have applauded: differences aside, we are all Koreans, our country divided only because we were pawns of the Cold War. He died 17 days before the meeting was to begin.  DEATH OF A LEADER
      