
        Earl Strom, the fiery National Basketball Association referee who spent more than three decades calling fouls with flair, ejecting players with style and occasionally backing up his rulings with his fists, died on Sunday at his home in Pottstown, Pa. He was 66.
        The cause of death was a cancerous brain tumor that had been diagnosed in January, his family said.
        When Strom broke in with the N.B.A. in 1957, the league was a struggling, sputtering affair, as much circus as sport. The man they called Yogi fit right in and was soon as much an attraction as stars like Bill Russell and George Yardley.
        Strom punctuated his calls with a characteristic series of staccato thrusts with his left hand, and even his whistle had a signature sound: "Tweet" (pause) "Tweet-Tweet." 'A Little Schmaltz'
        When he retired in 1990, Strom accused the image-conscious N.B.A. of trying to turn referees into robots. "To sell a call," he said, "you may have to have a little schmaltz. What's wrong with that?"
        Nobody ever accused him of being a robot, but schmaltz would hardly seem the word for the ingredients of a personality that resembled a mixture of vinegar and pepper with a dash of high-octane gasoline.
        Known for his explosive temper, Strom once refereed a game with his hand in a cast (he had broken a thumb slugging a critical fan the night before), and a national television audience was once left in suspense when the game broadcast ended as he charged over the scorers' table to grab the throat of a team official who had called him gutless for disallowing a buzzer basket.
        "When they went off the air, the crowd was just closing in on him," his wife, Yvonne, said yesterday, recalling that her husband (who had been pulled free and lugged to safety by Wilt Chamberlain) had made her a star of the resulting anecdote.
        As Strom later told it, when he placed a collect call to his wife after the game and the operator asked if she would accept the charges, she replied, "You bet I will," and then proceeded to give him a tongue-lashing that all but upstaged the hefty fine imposed by the league. 'Let Them Play'
        For all his showmanship and his displays of temper, Strom, who spent three seasons with the American Basketball Association, was regarded as a crack referee, one who let inconsequential fouls pass without a whistle. "I like to let them play," he once explained. "I like to let the players decide the outcome of a game."
        A book about his career, "Calling the Shots," written with Blaine Johnson, was published by Simon & Schuster in 1991.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Margie DeRenzis and Susan Hess; three sons, Stephen, Eric and Jonathan, and seven grandchildren.
      