
        Paul Mansour Naghdi, a mechanical engineer who spent four decades studying how to build tall structures so that they can withstand the caprice of nature, died on Saturday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 70.
        He died of cancer, his family said.
        At his death Dr. Naghdi was the Roscoe and Elizabeth Hughes Professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of California at Berkeley. He joined the faculty in 1958 and was chairman of the division of applied mechanics in the 1960's.
        His work in theoretical and applied mechanics dealt with a branch of physics that has become essential for designing high-rise buildings, domes and bridges. His theories and calculations for safe construction dealt with load factors like snow, high winds, earthquakes and structural weight that strain and deform tall buildings.
        While Dr. Naghdi dealt with potential deformations in many types of construction, he was best known for research on shell structures like domes, for which he developed a general theory. He expounded this theory in his "The Theory of Shells and Plates," a memoir published in the Encyclopedia of Physics (Springer Verlag) in 1972. Full Professor at 30
        He was born in Teheran, Iran, and came to the United States at the age of 16 for his higher education. He received a B.S. in mechanical engineering from Cornell University and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering from the University of Michigan.
        Dr. Naghdi began teaching at Michigan, and was named a full professor in 1954 at the age of 30. After moving to Berkeley, he helped set up its division of applied mechanics.
        His interest in elastic shells and plates dated to his student days at Michigan and summer lectures by Stephen Timoshenko, the Russian-born physicist and expert on elastic limits. The American Society of Mechanical Engineers awarded Dr. Naghdi its Timoshenko Medal in 1980 for "fundamental contributions to diverse areas of theoretical and applied mechanics."
        His wife, Patricia Spear Naghdi, died in 1974. He is survived by a son, Stephen, of Sioux Falls, S.D.; two daughters, Suzanne Pfaffenberger of Earlysville, Va., and Sondra Welden of Richmond, Calif.; two brothers, Thomas F., of Sun City West, Ariz., and Habib, of Teheran; a sister, Marziyeh Ghavam-Sadri, also of Teheran, and two grandchildren.
      