
        Philip H. Long, whose 15 years of litigation forced the Internal Revenue Service to make its operations less secretive, died last Wednesday at Overlake Hospital in Bellevue, Wash. A longtime resident of Bellevue, he was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        With his wife, Susan Long, Mr. Long fought the tax agency in the Federal courts starting in 1972. They became crusaders for the Freedom of Information Act, which allows the public to obtain Government documents, in a feud that placed them among the agency's least favorite taxpayers.
        He had a career in real estate. His wife is a professor of statistics at Syracuse University. They filed 13 suits against the I.R.S. to obtain various pieces of information, involving the courts up to the United States Supreme Court. A Statistical Challenge
        Their first successful legal action set the principle that the I.R.S. could not withhold information like statistics on the audit rates for taxpayers in different income groups, nor its basic operating manual.
        The couple's 13 victories resulted in decisions that helped to open the I.R.S. to public scrutiny to a much larger degree. Stephen Strong, the Seattle lawyer who represented them in their battles, said the outcome pried open vast amounts of information about procedures and operations that was long hidden from the public.
        "He had a major role in taking the mystery out of the I.R.S.," Mr. Strong said.
        Mr. Strong said the litigation was not completely finished until 1991 when the tax agency, having lost to the Longs, was ordered to pay their legal fees. Mr. Long's first collision with the I.R.S. had occurred in 1969 when it asserted that his family business owed $38,000 in tax arrears. After nine years in court, he won a refund of $146.01. Raising Understanding
        The Longs also worked with Congressional committees and the news media to raise their understanding of the I.R.S. Data freed by them were part of series of articles about the I.R.S. that won a Pulitzer Prize for The Philadelphia Inquirer in 1975.
        Born in Seattle, Mr. Long served on convoy duty to the Pacific as an officer in the Army Transport Service in World War II.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Long's survivors include two brothers, Dwight, of Marina Del Rey, Calif., and Robert, of Anchorage, and a sister, Erna McKenzie of Newport, Ore.
      