
        Lars-Eric Lindblad, a peripatetic entrepreneur whose tour company pioneered commercial trips to China, Antarctica and other remote parts of the world, died on Friday in Stockholm while on vacation. He was 67 and lived in Wilton, Conn.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, according to his son, Sven-Olof.
        Mr. Lindblad, a native of Sweden who immigrated to the United States in 1951 and became an American citizen, was president and chief executive officer of Lindblad Travel in Westport, Conn., for more than 30 years. The company ceased operations in 1989. In that year, the company was penalized more than $75,000 for violating United States trade embargoes against Vietnam and Cambodia by offering tours there.  Fees and Penalties Hurt
        Mr. Lindblad said the penalties and legal fees incurred in his dispute with the Government contributed to the company's going out of business.  President Clinton lifted the trade embargo against Vietnam in February, and a number of American companies now offer tours there. The embargo against Cambodia was lifted by President Bush in 1992.
        In an interview when the penalties were levied, Mr. Lindblad said he had intentionally violated the sanctions. "I would do it again," he said. "Travel in my opinion is not ordinary trade. Travel is a way of communication. To embargo travel is like burning books or imprisoning journalists."
        Mr. Lindblad later helped form another tour company, Creative Travel of Westport, Conn., which continues to operate.
        Among Mr. Lindblad's early tours were cruises to Antarctica, in 1966; to the Galapagos, in 1967, and along the coast of China in 1978. In 1972, one of his company's ships ran aground in Antarctica; its passengers, including Mr. Lindblad, were rescued by the Chilean Navy.
        Bob Whitley, president of the United States Tour Operators Association, of which Mr. Lindblad was a longtime member, called him "probably one of the most creative people who was ever involved in organizing travel."
        Mr. Lindblad was the author of an autobiography, "Passport to Anywhere," with an introduction by the ornithologist Roger Tory Peterson, who was a friend.  Honored for Services
        Mr. Lindblad was awarded the Order of the Golden Ark by the Netherlands for services to wildlife conservation, and was made a Knight of the Northern Star by the King of Sweden.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruriko, of Wilton, Conn; a son, Sven-Olof of New York City; two daughters, Cristina and Ana Maria, both of New York City; three sisters, Anne Charlotte Tatar of Ridgefield, Conn., Else-Britt Cederblad of Abbekas, Sweden, and Mona D'Orchimont-Lymark of Stockholm; a brother, Karl-Bruno of Atlanta, and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Lindblad's first marriage, to Sonja Stevenson, ended in divorce. His second wife, Cary Ann, died in 1984.
      