
        Dr. Max Frank Baer, who was associated with B'nai B'rith for 65 years -- 43 of them in staff and leadership positions -- died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 81.
        The cause was a heart attack, the organization reported.
        Dr. Baer was trained as an educator and vocational specialist. He retired in 1977 as the international director of the B'nai B'rith Youth Organization, which he had run since 1948.
        After retirement, he remained a consultant to B'nai B'rith, the world's oldest and largest Jewish service organization.He also continued to act as a consultant to the United States Department of Labor and the Social Security Administration. Earned Advanced Degrees
        Born in Frankfurt, Germany, he was brought to this country while in his youth and was reared in Indiana, where he became a member of the B'nai B'rith Youth Organization in 1929. He graduated from the University of Arizona and earned a doctor of laws degree at Creighton University in Omaha, a master's degree in education at Columbia University and a doctorate in education at George Washington University.
        He joined the B'nai B'rith staff in 1934 in Omaha as the assistant executive secretary of its boys' division. Four years later he moved to Washington to start the B'nai B'rith Vocational Service Bureau and then served as its national director for six years.
        As head of the international youth organization, he was credited with bringing in professional social workers as field directors and building the group into the world's largest Jewish youth movement. He developed leadership programs, including a Summer Institute, as the organization expanded to Israel and other nations.
        In the late 1930's, he helped thousands of refugees from Austria and Czechoslovakia to resettle in this country. After World War II, he initiated a national survey to expose and end the quota systems that barred returning Jewish G.I.'s from colleges and universities of their choice.
        He wrote the first code of personnel policies for B'nai B'rith, as well as books on vocational guidance. He also served as a visiting lecturer at Catholic University, George Washington University, Bucknell University and Marquette University.
        Dr. Baer's survivors include his wife of 27 years, Gertrude Smith Baer, and two stepchildren, Richard Rosenbaum of Orlando, Fla., and Randye Low of Manhattan.
      