
        Alexander H. Girard, an architect, interior designer and authority on folk art, died on Friday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 86.
        The cause was the complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Marshall C. Girard.
        For about 40 years Mr. Girard was a nationally known designer of innovative home furnishings, including furniture, fabrics for furniture and draperies, wallpapers, textiles and graphics. His hallmarks were bold colors, dramatic patterns and exotic materials.
        Some of his favorite graphic themes were sunbursts, checkerboards and stylized florals. His design for Valentine's Day in 1972, "Love Heart," was one of his more innovative works. Another popular design was the "tile look," which was wallpaper in a pattern of hundreds of colored rectangles that simulated a tile wall. Collector of Folk Art
        He also was an authority on and collector of folk art, at one point assembling 10,000 pieces from around the world in an exhibit at his home in Santa Fe, where he had lived for 40 years. The pieces on display were only a fraction of the tens of thousands he had amassed. Part of this collection was called "El Encanto de un Pueblo," (The Magic of a People) and was displayed at the HemisFair '68 in San Antonio, and later was donated to the State of New Mexico.
        The exhibit was a series of 41 visualizations of different aspects of Latin-American life and imagination, put together with folk toys ranging from tiny soldiers to a vast variety of landscapes, buildings, plants, animals, angels and humans, all splashed with bold, primitive colors.
        "We have become so practical that anything that is not functional is overlooked as not worth the doing," he said in 1962 as a comment on the increased attention folk art was receiving, adding: "But people buy folk art because it fills a need that is not satisfied at another level."
        In his multi-faceted career Mr. Girard also produced designs for many corporate clients including General Motors, John Deere, Cummins Engine and Braniff Airlines.
        In the early 1950's Mr. Girard bought a 200-year old adobe house in Santa Fe which was expanded enormously over the years to hold his folk art collection and which evolved into a showcase residence that was featured in television shows and books.
        Previously, Mr. Girard practiced design and architecture in Grosse Pointe, Mich., often decorating the homes of wealthy and celebrated clients.
        In 1948 he was among a group headed by the architect Eero Saarinen which designed the stainless steel arch that was built alongside the Mississippi River in St. Louis.
        Mr. Girard was born in New York and raised in Florence, Italy. He graduated from the Royal Institute of British Architects in London with honors in decoration, and also studied design in Rome. Before moving to Michigan, Mr. Girard worked in Manhattan and was a member of the Architectural League of New York and the American Institute of Decorators.
        Members of his family also helped Mr. Girard with his designs and collecting. Mr. Girard is survived by his wife of 57 years, Susan Girard, a daughter, Sansi Coonan, and his son, all of Santa Fe; a brother, Jean Carlo Girard of Florence, and four grandchildren.
      