
        Dr. Richard U. Light, early long-distance flier, former president of the American Geographical Society, pioneer in neurosurgery and grandson of the Upjohn Company's founder, died on Monday at his home in Kalamazoo, Mich., at the age of 92.
        The cause was a heart attack that he suffered on May 24, his family said.
        Richard Upjohn Light was born in Kalamazoo and graduated in 1920 from Culver Military Academy in Culver, Ind. His interest in aviation was awakened when, as a child, he watched the Wright brothers, who had been boyhood friends of his father, practicing their early flights in Dayton, Ohio.
        After graduating from Yale University in 1924, Dr. Light went to the University of Michigan Medical School. He then postponed his residency to join the Army Air Corps, training at Kelly Field, Tex., in the biplanes of that era. He qualified as a pilot in 1929, then enrolled at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston as a resident in neurosurgery.
        His family said he was the last resident trained by Dr. Harvey Cushing, widely regarded as the father of neurosurgery. Dr. Light was an avid cinematographer, and for many years his film of Dr. Cushing's 2,000th brain-tumor removal was shown at annual meetings of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons.
        He also helped develop surgical tools like an electric drill to replace the brace and bit device used to penetrate the skull. In 1936, after two years as director of the surgical laboratory at the Yale Medical School, he spent one year at the University of Rochester Medical School.  Round-the-World Flight
        In 1934, he and a fellow Yale graduate, acting as radio operator, set forth from New Haven in a single-engine float plane on a widely publicized round-the-world journey, with landings in Greenland, Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, Europe, the Middle East, India, the West Indies and Manila. There, confronted with winter weather over the Pacific, they dismantled their plane and shipped it to Vancouver, British Columbia. Then, in their reassembled plane, they flew to California, Mexico, Cuba and finally to College Point, Queens.
        In 1937, he and his first wife, Rachael Mary Upjohn, a distant cousin, flew a single-engine plane the length of South America, crossed the South Atlantic by ship and then flew north from Cape Town. The resulting study and aerial photos were published by the American Geographical Society as a book, "Focus on Africa."
        Dr. Light was elected to the council of the American Geographical Society in 1941 and served as the organization's president from 1947 to 1955.
        In the late 1930's, he developed a chronic ailment that kept him for flying. From then on, he concentrated on medicine, geography and education. From 1937 to 1968, he was a director of the Upjohn Company, the pharmaceuticals giant founded by W. E. Upjohn, his grandfather. From 1956 to 1963 he was a member of the Yale University Council, and from 1947 to 1972 a trustee of the Kalamazoo Foundation. In 1953 he became chairman of the board of Kalamazoo College, and pioneered its program of allowing students to study abroad for one or two terms.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Irmgard Fuchs; four sons, Christopher, Timothy, John Richard and Rudolph; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. His earlier marriage ended in divorce.
      