
        Henry L. T. Koren, a retired Foreign Service officer who dealt with knotty issues like the American civil pacification program in South Vietnam and the new Panama Canal treaty, died on July 6 at home in a retirement community in Williamsburg, Va. He was 83 years old.
        The cause of death was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Mr. Koren left the State Department with the rank of Ambassador in 1971 after 23 years in the Foreign Service. From then until 1975, he held the post of Deputy Under Secretary of the Army in Charge of Panama Affairs. At the time, the Pentagon and the Joint Chiefs of Staff were trying to overcome their earlier difficulties with the treaty terms being negotiated by the State Department.
        He then moved to Florida, where he had an active role for 12 years in the Gasparilla Island Conservation and Improvement Association. He had lived in Williamsburg since 1988. Colonel in the Army
        Henry Lloyd Thornell Koren was born in Princeton, N.J., and graduated cum laude from Princeton University in 1933. He was employed by the Bank of New York before World War II, when he served in the Army in Europe and reached the rank of colonel.
        He worked for the Central Intelligence Agency for a year before he joined the State Department in 1948. He was posted to Haiti, Switzerland and the Philippines, and was the Director of Southeast Asian Affairs in 1964, when President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed him Ambassador to the Republic of the Congo.
        His next assignment in the 1960's took him to South Vietnam as the third-ranking officer of the American Embassy in Saigon. He was the Director of Civil Operations for the country's strategic northern provinces, where the American pacification program had run into severe problems by the time he returned to Washington in 1968.
        Mr. Koren is survived by his wife of 54 years, Virginia Cain Koren; a son, Henry L. T. Jr. of Colorado Springs, Colo.; a daughter, Anne Koren of Paris; and three grandchildren.
      