
        The Rev. George Edgar Riddick, a civil rights advocate long associated with the Rev. Jesse Jackson's Operation PUSH, died on Tuesday at his home in Chicago. He was 61.
        The cause was a heart attack, said the organization, which is in Chicago.
        Mr. Riddick, the pastor of Blackwell Memorial A.M.E. Church on Chicago's South Side, was a senior vice president of Operation PUSH, for People United to Serve Humanity. He helped to organize PUSH in 1971 and served as its director of research, as he previously had at Mr. Jackson's earlier organization, Operation Breadbasket.
        He was also the director of pastoral services at Doctors' Hospital of Hyde Park, on the South Side.
        As the group's chief spokesman, he made weekly radio broadcasts for 21 years on the "Saturday Morning Forum" of Operation PUSH. Helped Get Jobs for Poor
        Mr. Riddick, who was known as "Reverend Ed," was involved in programs to improve education, labor conditions and social services for the poor. As PUSH's chief researcher he played a major role in covenants on economic development and cooperation with major corporations like Coca-Cola, Burger King, Avon, Seven-UP, Quaker Oats and the Ford Motor Company.
        Mr. Jackson, the group's founder and former executive director, characterized him as its "dean of digits."
        "While many people may be unaware of his role as the prime negotiator of the PUSH economic covenants," Mr. Jackson's statement said, "literally hundreds of businesses and thousands of jobs were helped and/or created because of Reverend Riddick's work."
        Mr. Riddick was born in Denver and graduated from the University of Denver. After serving in the United States Quartermaster Corps, he studied at the divinity school of the University of Chicago.
        As a staff director of the Church Federation of Greater Chicago, he acted as that body's liaison with the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the group started by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and worked with Mr. King when he visited Chicago.
        More recently, Mr. Riddick worked on the 1992 Senate campaign of Carol Moseley-Braun, Democrat of Illinois.
        Mr. Riddick's first wife, Lula Smith Riddick, died in 1992. He recently married Beatrice Williams Riddick, who survives him. Other survivors include his mother, Odessa Jackson, and a sister, Thomasine Hallman, both of Denver.
      