
        Isadore From, one of the formulators of the innovative approach to psychotherapy called Gestalt therapy, died on Monday. He was 75.
        Mr. From died of a stroke during treatment for cancer, said Hunt Cole, his companion for 34 years.
        Of the original circle of founders of Gestalt therapy, Mr. From was a main theorizer. That circle included Dr. Frederick Perls, a psychiatrist, and his wife, Lore, a clinical psychologist, and the social critic and writer Paul Goodman. Mr. From had been one of the earliest patients of Dr. Perls in the late 1940's.
        The group met regularly in the Perlses' apartment during the 1950's; during these meetings the basic principles of Gestalt therapy were established.
        The Gestalt approach to psychotherapy was a radical revision of psychoanalysis, focusing on the therapist's and the client's attention to the present rather than on the search for underlying causes of disturbance.
        Its roots were in German experimental Gestalt psychology in the 1920's and in European existential philosophy and phenomenology, a philosophical movement that stressed the study of events rather than inferred causes.
        Out of existentialism it took an emphasis on a person's responsibility for the creation of experience, and from phenomenology it took an intense focus on what the patient experiences and the therapist observes in the therapy session.
        Mr. From was not widely published but had an extensive personal circle of influence. "All of his transmission of theory was through teaching and teaching  of psychotherapists over close to four decades, and leading groups studying theory," said Dr. Michael Miller, a Gestalt therapist in Boston. "He was a therapist's therapist."
        Most of his teaching was in New York City, but Dr. From spent several months  teaching in Europe each year.
        Mr. From was born in South Bend, Ind., and attended Butler University in Indianapolis and the University of California at Los Angeles. He studied philosophy at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan, with a focus on phenomenology.
        "Mr. From said he learned as much to learn and see from Henry James and Proust as he did from Freud," said Dr. Miller.
        He is survived by his sister, Freda Weiner of Bay Harbor Islands, Fla., and a brother, Joseph Fromm of McLean, Va.
      