
        James Joll, a British historian of modern Europe who interwove the history of politics and the history of ideas, died on Tuesday at his home in London. He was 76.
        He had cancer of the larynx, said John Golding, a friend.
        Professor Joll was the Stevenson Professor of International History at the University of London from 1967 until his retirement in 1981. Between 1946 and 1967, he held posts at Oxford.
        A former student of his, Charles S. Maier, the Krupp Professor of European Studies at Harvard, observed yesterday that Professor Joll's last book, "The Origins of the First World War" (1984, Longman) is assigned by teachers to be read by "virtually every student who studies that event." 'Masterpiece of Synthesis'
        Professor Maier called the book "a masterpiece of synthesis." "It brought together the diplomatic prelude, the strategic situation and, just as important, the climate of nationalist and imperialist ideas which conditioned decision-making."
        Professor Joll summed up his view of the importance of ideas in history in a widely-quoted inaugural lecture at the University of London entitled "1914: the Unspoken Assumptions." His concluding words were "It is only by studying the minds of men that we shall understand the causes of anything."
        Appraising his career, The Times of London said on Friday: "James Joll had a wide sweep of interests which enabled him to illuminate many areas of modern history. His achievement is summed up in his magnum opus, "Europe Since 1870," a work which, when it appeared in 1973, was acknowledged as being a study which few contemporary historians could have attempted."
        Professor Joll's other books include "The Second International" (1955), "Intellectuals in Politics" (1960) and "The Anarchists" (1964, Harvard). Among his other writings were reviews for The New York Times Book Review.
        He was a visiting member of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton in 1954 and 1971, a visiting professor at Stanford in 1958 and a visiting lecturer at Harvard in 1962.
        James Bysse Joll was born in Bristol, 110 miles west of London, and was educated at Winchester, at the University of Bordeaux in France and at Oxford. During World War II he was in the British Army and in the German and Austrian sections of the Special Operations Executive, the British equivalent of the American Office of Strategic Services.
      