
        Jean Borotra, the remarkably robust Frenchman whose dashing manner and attacking tennis game earned him the memorable sobriquet, "the Bounding Basque," died yesterday in Arbonne, France. He was 95.
        Borotra's family, which did not give a cause of death, said he died at his home, in southern France
        A veteran of both world wars, Borotra became an international star as one of the "Four Musketeers," who wrested the Davis Cup from Big Bill Tilden, Little Bill Johnston and the rest of the Americans in Philadelphia in 1927. The French went on to successfully defend the cup in Paris five times. The other Musketeers were Henri Cochet, Jacques (Toto) Brugnon and Rene Lacoste, who is still alive.
        Borotra, whose trademark was the blue beret he wore on court, was a superb volleyer with unorthodox ground strokes. He won 15 Grand Slam titles during the amateur era, 10 of them in doubles. He won the singles title at the French Championships in 1924 and 1931, at Wimbledon in 1924 and 1926 (the British gave him his nickname) and at the Australian Championships in 1928, the only year he played there. He also was a finalist at the United States Championships in 1926 and one of the most successful indoor players in history.
        His most memorable performance on any surface came in 1932 during the Davis Cup final on clay in Paris against a United States team led by the young, hard-hitting Californian, Ellsworth Vines. Borotra had announced his retirement from Davis Cup singles the previous year, but when Lacoste fell ill shortly before the final, Borotra was called back into service. At age 34, he beat Vines in straight sets and then rallied from a two-set deficit and saved four match points to defeat Wilmer Allison and clinch a 3-2 victory for the French. It would be France's last Davis Cup victory for 59 years.
        "When you fought in two wars among the troops like I did there are certain memories that mark you forever," Borotra said in 1993. "But being part of the Musketeers was one of my greatest joys. We had a marvelous camaraderie."
        Unlike his fellow Musketeers, Borotra continued playing Davis Cup doubles until the age of 48 and won the last of his 12 French indoor singles championship at age 49. He continued playing in international senior competitions well into his 80's. At age 95, unable to hit a forehand because of arthritis in his right arm, he still regularly hit backhands against a wall at the Tennis Club de Paris. Tennis in the Army
        Borotra was born on Aug. 13, 1898, in Biarritz, the heart of French Basque country. A gifted athlete, he spent his childhood playing soccer, rugby and the Basque national game, pelota. He did not take up tennis seriously until after World War I when, at age 20, he played in the championships of the Army of the Rhine and reached the semifinals.
        Shortly after graduating with an engineering degree from L'Ecole Polytechnique in 1922, Borotra went to work for Satam, a French company that distributed gasoline pumps. For the next 15 years, he juggled his business and tennis commitments.
        "We could depict Borotra as one of those bronze Hindu gods with multiple hands," wrote Gabriel-Ren Domergue in the newspaper Paris Soir in 1929.
        A crowd favorite because of his exuberance and debonair manner -- if forced to chase a ball into the stands, he would invariably doff his beret and kiss the hands of those women he had inconvenienced -- Borotra made a habit of giving points to opponents if he felt an umpire had erred in his judgment. Not all his peers appreciated such gallantry, including Tilden, who sometimes referred to him as "the Bantering Basque" and once responded to his concession of a point by conceding the next one. The cycle repeated itself twice more before play could resume.
        Borotra served in the French army as a captain during World War II and was taken prisoner near Dijon, France, in 1940. He escaped and later joined the French Vichy government of Marshal Philippe Petain as the commissioner of general education and sport. Borotra resigned from the government in April 1942 and was taken prisoner again seven months later as he tried to leave the country and join the Allied forces in North Africa.
        He spent the remainder of the war in German prisons, and although his role in the Vichy government was a source of some controversy, he resumed his career with Satam.
        Divorced from his first wife, Borotra remarried in 1988 to Janine Bourdin. He continued to travel extensively into his 90's and spent his final years dividing time between his family's estate near Arbonne and his elegant apartment on Avenue Foch in Paris.
        He is survived by his second wife and by his son from his first marriage, Yves.
      