
        Hanns Kornell, who built and lost a multimillion-dollar sparkling wine business and then spent his last years virtually indigent, died at his home in the Napa Valley in California on Sunday. He was 83.
        The cause of death was complications after a series of strokes, his daughter, Paula, said.
        Mr. Kornell established Kornell Champagne Cellars in 1958, when he bought the Larkmead Vineyard, a property near the town of St. Helena that had once been owned by Lillie Hitchcock Coit. Mrs. Coit gave San Francisco its landmark Coit Tower on Telegraph Hill.
        Mr. Kornell developed the expensive "Champagne method" of making sparkling wine bottle by bottle at a time when most California producers made it in large steel tanks. At one time, he produced eight types of sparkling wine, which, like many American producers then, he called Champagne. He helped create an interest in good sparkling wine but was unable to compete with the well-financed European Champagne companies when they began to set up California subsidiaries in the 1970's. Downturn in the 1980's
        He borrowed $4.5 million in the 1980's to upgrade his winery, but the downturn in the California wine industry at the end of the decade dealt his business a mortal blow. In 1991, the Kornells filed for bankruptcy, and the next year the banks foreclosed on their winery.
        Earlier this year, as Mr. Kornell and his wife struggled to survive on Social Security, they were faced with eviction. Robert Mondavi, a friend of the Kornells since they arrived in the Napa Valley, bought their house and told the couple it was theirs as long as either lived.
        Mr. Kornell was born in Lublinitz, Germany, in 1911 and recalled first picking grapes in his grandfather's vineyard at the age of 4. He studied at the Geisenheim Enological Institute and worked in vineyards in France and Italy. Because of his family's opposition to the Nazis, he was sent to the concentration camp at Dachau in 1938. He was released a year later on the condition that he leave Germany within 48 hours.
        Arriving in New York in 1939 with $2, he hitchhiked to California and worked in several wineries. Later he worked in wineries in Kentucky and Missouri. He returned to California in 1952, leased a winery in Sonoma and saved his money until he could buy the Larkmead Vineyard. His best wine, reflecting his German background, was called Sehr Trocken and made from Riesling grapes.
        Besides his daughter, who is sales director of Vichon Winery, which is owned by the Robert Mondavi Winery, Mr. Kornell is survived by his wife, Marielouise Rossini Kornell, whose grandfather planted the first Souverain Vineyard in the Napa Valley in 1886, and a son, Peter Hanns.
      