
        Amos Melamede, head of the company whose taped commentaries advise visitors about what they are looking at in the world's finest museums, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He suffered a stroke and died at the home of a friend, where he had just celebrated his 61st birthday, his family said.
        At his death, Mr. Melamede, a resident of the East Side, was chairman of the Acoustiguide Corporation of Manhattan. The company provides audio tapes for special exhibitions as well as permanent cultural sites around the world, from New York to Beijing. He led its expansion in Eastern Europe and China.
        Its most illustrious clients have included the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Museum of Modern Art, the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, the Louvre, the Pergamon Museum in Berlin, the Vatican and the Smithsonian Institution. Its tapes have accompanied visitors on tours of historic sites like Ellis Island, Antietam National Battlefield, Versailles, Windsor Castle and Beijing's Forbidden City.
        Mr. Melamede was born in Goteborg, Sweden, and lived in Israel before coming to the United States in 1967. He was a graduate of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and finished an advanced management program at the Harvard Business School.
        In Israel, he worked as an economics correspondent for The Jerusalem Post before joining the Government as deputy director of the Israel Investment Authority. He also was a captain and fighter pilot in the Israeli Air Force and saw action in the Suez Canal campaign of 1957 and the Six Day War of 1967.
        Once in the United States, he worked as a finance executive for several multinational corporations. He eventually established his own holding company, Melamede & Company, which acquired Acoustiguide in 1989. He then served as president and, later, chairman of the company, which was founded in 1957 and has produced more than 3,000 tours for over 300 clients since.
        Mr. Melamede is survived by his wife, Ada Karmi Melamede; two daughters, Michal and Yael; a son, Gur, all of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      