
        Yehoshafat Harkabi, a former head of Israeli military intelligence and analyst of the Arab-Israeli conflict who called years ago for the acceptance of a Palestinian state, died today in Jerusalem. He was 72.
        He died of cancer, a disease he had battled for several years.
        "His passing is a great loss to the nation," said former President Chaim Herzog, who succeeded Mr. Harkabi as head of intelligence in 1959.
        A professor of international relations and Middle Eastern studies who advised several Israeli governments, Mr. Harkabi pioneered the academic study of the Arab-Israeli conflict in Israel. He was awarded Israel's highest honor, the Israel Prize, in 1993. 'Teacher of a Generation'
        "He created an entire discipline, coined its basic terms and taught how to think systematically about the conflict," said Matti Steinberg, an expert on the Palestine Liberation Organization and a student of Mr. Harkabi. "He was the teacher of a generation, and the current Government is in one way or another following his path."
        In the years after the 1967 Middle East war, Mr. Harkabi published books and articles analyzing Arab attitudes toward Israel, acquainting Israelis with the P.L.O.'s covenant and its clauses calling for Israel's destruction. But from the mid-1970's on, Mr. Harkabi detected shifts in Arab thinking and began advocating changes in Israeli policy that would acknowledge them.
        In a book published in 1977, he wrote that Israel should declare its readiness to recognize Palestinian rights and negotiate with the P.L.O. if the Palestinians simultaneously recognized Israel's legitimacy. He said Israel should also announce its readiness to withdraw from the occupied territories and allow the establishment of a Palestinian state.
        In an interview in 1980, Mr. Harkabi explained why he had moved into the peace camp.
        "I am a Machiavellian dove," he said. "I want Israel to get the best settlement. That is a settlement that finalizes the conflict.
        "I am for finalizing the conflict, and you can't do that without recognizing that the Palestinians, like any other human group, deserve the right to self-determination," he said. "The British had to get out of India, and Israel will have to get out of the West Bank."
        In a book published in 1986, Mr. Harkabi wrote that while the Palestinians had come to accept an accommodation with Israel, there was no similar readiness in Israel.
        He warned against policies driven by zealous idealism rather than realism, and a few months after the outbreak of the Palestinian uprising in 1987 he said, "Reality will force Israel to retreat from her political stand, to withdraw from the territories and to negotiate with the P.L.O."
        Yehoshafat Harkabi was born in Haifa on Sept. 21, 1921, when Palestine was ruled under a British mandate.
        He fought as a company commander in the 1948 Arab-Israeli war and was a delegate to negotiations with Egypt and Jordan after the fighting ended. He traveled several times to Jordan for secret talks with King Abdullah as part of an unsuccessful effort to reach a broader accord.
        Mr. Harkabi served as chief of military intelligence from 1955 to 1959. He directed strategic research at the Defense Ministry in the 1960's, and in the 1970's was an assistant for strategic policy to the Defense Minister and an intelligence adviser to the Prime Minister.  Professor and Author
        He earned his master's degree in 1949 at the Hebrew University and a doctorate in Middle Eastern studies there in 1968. He taught at the Hebrew University for the next 20 years, serving as chairman of its department of international relations and director of the Leonard Davis Institute for International Relations. More recently he taught strategy at the Israeli National Defense College.
        Several of his books were translated into English, including "Israel's Fateful Hour" (published in the United States by Harper & Row, 1988); "The Bar Kokhba Syndrome: Risk and Realism in International Relations" (Rossel Books, 1983); "Arab Strategies and Israel's Response" (Free Press, 1977) and "Arab Attitudes to Israel" (Hart & Co., 1971). His latest volume, "War and Strategy," published in Hebrew in 1990, is also being translated into English.
        Mr. Harkabi is survived by his wife, Miriam; a son, Dan; a daughter, Irit, and four grandchildren.
      