
        Rabbi Malcolm H. Stern, a historian of American Judaism and its premier genealogist in the United States, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was a heart attack, said his wife, Louise.
        Rabbi Stern compiled "American Families of Jewish Descent" an eight-pound tome containing 26,000 names. Published in 1960 in a limited edition by Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati, it was the fruit of eight years of labor over musty archives and yellowed family records.
        The book was the first genealogical survey of Jewish families who settled in this country between 1654 and 1840. It was hailed as the most valuable research tool in the field of American Jewish history in many years. Its latest updated third edition -- with 50,000 names -- appeared in 1991 under the title "First American Jewish Families".
        Through Rabbi Stern's efforts, many American Protestants and Roman Catholics first learned of Jewish branches in their family trees. His data served as an important source for Stephen Birmingham's best-selling novel "The Grandees". Researching and Writing
        Until his death, Rabbi Stern remained active researching and writing for various publications. He also kept a busy speaking schedule with engagements awaiting him as far ahead as 1996.
        He was an adjunct professor of American Jewish history at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, whose president, Dr. Alfred Gottschalk, said yesterday that Rabbi Stern's "scholarship, his pioneering seminal research in American Jewish genealogy and writings remain a rich legacy and memorial."
        Rabbi Stern was the unanimous choice of his colleagues in the Central Conference of American Rabbis to establish their placement office, and he served as the first director of rabbinic placement for Reform Judaism from 1964 to 1980. He was past president of the American Society of Genealogists, the Jewish Genealogical Society and the Jewish Historical Society of New York. Chaplain in World War II
        Malcolm Henry Stern was born in Philadelphia and graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati. He was ordained in 1941, served as an Army Air Force chaplain in World War II and as rabbi of Congregation Ohef Sholom in Norfolk, Va., from 1947 to 1964.
        His enthusiasm for genealogy went back to grammar school and a classroom exercise to trace the families of Charlemagne and other royal leaders in Europe. It led to his adult interest in a basic service to American Jewish historians and, in 1960, to the position of genealogist for American Jewish Archives, which supported his work.
        Besides his wife of 52 years, Louise Bergman Stern, he is survived by a brother, Edward L., of Pompano Beach, Fla.
      