
        Dr. Joseph H. Di Leo, a pediatrician who received international recognition for his studies on the interpretation of children's drawings, died on Aug. 16 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 91.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        As director of the New York Foundling Hospital's Developmental Clinic, a position he held for 33 years, Dr. Di Leo studied thousands of children, conducting tests that appraised their maturity and physical development and helped to spot neuromuscular dysfunctions and sensory handicaps.
        He published four books detailing his analyses of the sketches and doodles of 3- and 5-year-olds. The books, beginning with "Young Children and Their Drawings" (1970), were translated into many foreign languages.
        The children's drawings, he wrote, bespoke the "universality of childhood" in that they showed similar tendencies and sequences whether they were drawn in 1885 or today, in this country or elsewhere. The 'Tadpole Figure'
        A child's scribblings, he said, begin to include, at about age 3, a circle that symbolizes a father's head. From there, the child extends lines downward for what he called the universal "tadpole figure."
        Born in Brooklyn, the son of a physician, Dr. Di Leo received his higher education largely in Italy. He earned an M.D. at the University of Bologna in 1927, after which he took advanced studies there and at the University of Rome.
        He practiced medicine in Rome for 10 years and served as physician to the American Embassy staff. Once back in the United States he trained at Yale University's Clinic of Child Development.
        New York Foundling Hospital established its Developmental Clinic in 1945 and Dr. Di Leo became its first director, holding the post until his retirement in 1978.
        Dr. Di Leo was also the author of "Children's Drawings as Diagnostic Aids" (1970) and "Interpreting Children's Drawings" (1980), both of which remain in print. Also in print is a volume he wrote for the Teachers College Series in Special Education, "Physical Factors in Growth and Development: A Manual for Educators, Nurses and Social Workers."
        Dr. Di Leo is survived by his wife of 45 years, Joan McTague Di Leo; a daughter, Judith Di Leo of Newton, Mass.; two sons, Daniel of Tyrone, Pa., and Paul of Brooklyn, and two grandchildren.
      