
        E. Hornsby Wasson, a senior telephone company executive who became embroiled in a government lawsuit over interlocking corporate directorates, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Chattanooga, Tenn. He was 89 and lived in Chattanooga.
        The immediate cause of death was "natural causes due to advanced age," a Pacific Bell spokeswoman said. She said no further details were available from the family.
        Mr. Wasson was a retired chairman of the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company, the predecessor company to Pacific Bell in California, as well as a former president of New Jersey Bell.
        A native of Chattanooga, he had lived for 27 years in Hillsborough, Calif., a suburb of San Francisco, before returning to Tennessee, according to a Pacific Bell statement.
        Mr. Wasson retired as chairman of Pacific Telephone and the Bell Telephone Company of Nevada on April 30, 1970. His 44-year career with the Bell Telephone System began as a salesman with the Southern Bell Telephone Company in Chattanooga in 1926 shortly after college graduation. Involved in Federal Suit
        But it was Mr. Wasson's wide-ranging membership on several boards of directors that led to a precedent in antitrust law. In the 1970's, the Justice Department decided to challenge interlocking corporate directorates and filed a lawsuit in October 1975 that eventually entangled Mr. Wasson.
        Government lawyers argued that both banks and insurers made similar loans and were therefore competitors, which made directors of banks who were also directors of insurance companies in violation of antitrust laws. Mr. Wasson was a director of both the Bank of America, then the nation's largest bank, and the Prudential Insurance Company, then and now the nation's largest insurer.
        Although Mr. Wasson resigned his Bank of America directorship four months before the lawsuit, Federal lawyers still named him in the complaint. In May 1976, the Justice Department settled the suit by forbidding Mr. Wasson to return to the bank's board as long as he was a Prudential director.
        Mr. Wasson was born in Montague, Tenn., and graduated from the University of Tennessee in Chattanooga in 1926. He spent almost 24 years in Bell system positions in the South before being named vice president for public relations in 1950 at Northwestern Bell Telephone in Omaha. In 1959, he was named president of New Jersey Bell and in 1965 president of Pacific Telephone.
        His wives, Regina D. Wasson and Eleanor C. Wasson, died before him. He is survived by a son, Edward H. Jr. of Atlanta; a daughter, Louellen Wasson Hall of Essex, Vt.; three sisters, Marion W. Wilson, Margaret W. Smith and Sara W. Snow, all of Chattanooga; two grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      