
        Herbert W. Heilman, former head of the Loyal Order of the Moose, died on July 27 at a retirement community in Tucson, Ariz., where he had moved three years ago from his longtime home in Batavia, Ill. He was 79.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, the fraternal order, now renamed Moose International, reported at its headquarters at Mooseheart, its big campus just west of Chicago.
        Mr. Heilman, who as an orphaned child had been reared at the organization's 1,200-acre children's home and tuition-free school at Mooseheart, headed the Loyal Order as director general from 1974 to 1984. A full-time Moose executive since 1948, he had initially directed its sports division and then the membership department.
        During his 27 years as either membership director or director general, the organization's ranks swelled from 835,000 to more than 1.7 million.
        The order, which has lodges in the United States, Canada, Britain and Bermuda, changed its name to Moose International in 1991, when it fully incorporated its women's auxiliary. Members conduct community service programs and maintain the Mooseheart children's home and Moosehaven, a 72-year-old retirement community in Jacksonville, Fla.
        Mr. Heilman was born in Tiffin, Ohio, and, as an 11-year-old orphan, arrived in Mooseheart with his two brothers in 1925. He excelled in sports, both there and at North Central College in nearby Naperville, Ill., from which he graduated in 1938 with an education degree. He returned to Mooseheart as a teacher and coach in 1941.
        He served in the Navy as a physical therapist during World War II and then, in 1946, received a master's degree in physical education from the University of Wisconsin. Two years later he was back at Mooseheart to direct a new sports program sponsored by lodges throughout North America.
        Mr. Heilman is survived by his wife of 53 years, Carolyn Goetz Heilman; a son, Richard, and a daughter, Nancy H. Fetgatter, both of Tucson; five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      