
        Dr. Luigi Zummo Pollara, provost emeritus of the Stevens Institute of Technology and founder of its Polymer Processing Institute, died on July 29 at his farm in Wall Township, N.J. He was 80.
        The cause was a heart attack, the institute said.
        Dr. Pollara was credited with bringing about important changes in the Stevens curriculum. He arrived on the campus in Hoboken in 1953 as an associate professor of mathematics. He was appointed a professor of chemistry in 1955, concurrently serving as head of the fledgling department of chemistry and chemical engineering until 1971.
        Through the 1970's, he held the posts of dean for graduate and professional studies and, finally, provost. He retired as provost in 1980 but continued as a special consultant to the president. In 1982, he was the founding president of the Polymer Processing Institute, an autonomous entity at Stevens charged with conducting chemical-industry-sponsored research. Retired to Raise Horses
        He retired from that position five years ago to raise thoroughbred horses on his farm.
        During 25 years as department head, dean and provost, Dr. Pollara developed the institute's integrated undergraduate studies program in science and engineering as well as international programs that brought American technical education to developing countries. He set up a model for cooperative industry-university research. He stressed the importance of a strong liberal-arts component in the engineering curriculum and he guided doctoral programs in science and engineering that produced Stevens's first Ph.D. in 1959.
        The institute's faculty members elected him teacher of the year in 1960.
        A native of Lyndhurst, N.J., he graduated from Newark College of Enginering in 1937 and received a Ph.D. in physical chemistry at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1948. At the time, he was teaching at Siena College, whose graduate school he founded and headed.
        Dr. Pollara is survived by his wife of 53 years, Rose Messineo Pollara; two sons, Joseph of Marlboro, N.J., and Frank of Wall Township; a daughter, Marietta Verdoni of Princeton, N.J.; two brothers, Frank of Naples, Fla., and Paul of South Plainfield, N.J.; three sisters, Margaret Cardillo of Seaside Park, N.J., Rose Liberti of Miami Beach, and Iris Walker of Naples, Fla; and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 11, 1994, Thursday
        An obituary on Saturday about Dr. Luigi Z. Pollara, provost emeritus of the Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, N.J., omitted one surviving sister and misidentified another. The omitted sister is Violetta DuPont of Watchung, N.J.; the other survivor is Iris Faulconer Zenobi, not Iris Walker.
      