 Lea Nikel, an abstract painter who was one of Israel's most esteemed artists, died on Sept. 10 at her home in Moshav Kidron, Israel. She was 86. The cause was cancer, her nephew Yehuda Bock said. Ms. Nikel devoted a career of more than 50 years to a form of expressionistic a
 FEINBERG--Eleanor Getzler. Died peacefully at her home in Mumford Cove, CT. at age 81 on September 29, 2005. Her beloved husband Arthur died in February 2004. Ellie is survived by her children Ira and Candy, Linda, Roberta and Glen, by her grandchildren Adam Feinberg, Daniel Feinberg, Joann
 HOFFMAN--Florence. The Rudin family and Rudin Management Company, Inc. express their condolences to the Hoffman and Rapaport families on the passing of Florence. She was a good friend and we will miss her. Jack Rudin, Chairman Bill Rudin, President       
 KERR--Nora. 62, on Tuesday, September 27, 2005. Born in Cairo, Egypt on November 19, 1943. After the war she and her family moved to the United States where she grew up in suburban New Jersey. She attended Rutgers, The State University and William Paterson University of New Jersey, before l
 SETTLE--Mary Lee. The trustees, faculty and alumni/ae of Bard College mourn the passing of Mary Lee Settle, cherished longtime teacher, colleague, and friend. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. She will be deeply missed Charles P. Stevenson Jr., Chairman Leon Botstein, Preside
 NEWMAN--Debra Sheryl. 6/13/1980--10/1/2002. A young woman of valor given too few years. Loved by all who knew her and greatly missed. You would have been one terrific lawyer. Love, Mom and Dad       
 Franzi Groszmann, who was believed to be among the last survivors of the parents who put their London-bound children on trains to escape Nazi persecution, in the famed Kindertransport, died on Sept. 20 in Manhattan. She was 100. Deborah Oppenheimer, producer of the 2000 movie ''Into
 ASSUMMA--Clara M. A former resident of Eastchester, NY, died peacefully with her children by her side, on September 29, 2005. Born in Queens, NY, on July 9, 1926, to Joseph and Rosalia Cannata. Devoted wife of the late Daniel for 46 years (April 17, 1995). Beloved mother of Daniel of Somers
 BALLIN--Rosella. April 1st, 1910--September 30th, 2005. Loving wife, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother and sister. Celebrated life by enjoying generations of family and friends. Her wonderful way and sense of humor made her enjoy life to the fullest. She was truly a woman of the ages. 
 BERNARD--Madeleine, 88, on September 27, 2005. Worked for Alfred De Liagre, Rex Stout at the Writers War Board, and at the American Theater Wing, where she met her husband Graham Bernard. A devoted wife and mother, she is lovingly remembered by daughters Meg, Katharine, & Martha, sons-in-la
 BYRNE--Elizabeth (Liz). Suddenly in New York City on September 23, 2005. Beloved daughter of Virginia and Jack Byrne. Our dear sister, aunt, friend. Survived by her parents, 12 siblings, 14 nieces and nephews and numerous friends and loved ones. Born January 8, 1960. Liz was an extraordinar
 EASTMAN -- Laura Delano Adams. 79, on September 23, 2005. Born on Campobello Island, New Brunswick, she was the daughter of Frederick Baldwin Adams and Ellen Walters Delano and grew up in the family home at 8 East 69th Street in Manhattan. She married Jack Eastman, Director of the Skowhegan
 EHRMAN--Elinor. 83, died Saturday, September 10, in Westport, CT. She had a long, distinguished career in marketing and public relations. Her first job after college was staff aide to the Manhattan Project. After the war, Ms. Ehrman was hired by ''Time'' magazine and prestigious public rela
 HEYEL--Isabel Oldham, on September 24, 2005, in Vero Beach, FL, at the age of 84. A Westchester County native, she moved to Los Angeles, CA, in 1971 where, until retirement in 1997, she had a very successful career in the field of Decorator Fabrics. Isabel is remembered with love by four si
 IRGANG--Doris of Bayside, NY. Beloved wife, friend, soul-mate and life partner of Alan, loving mother of Scott and Mark, cherished motherin-law of Carole and Laura, devoted grandmother of Emily, Hannah and Dylan and dear sister of Shirley, passed into Heaven on September 27, 2005. Her love 
 MOTLEY--Constance Baker. Dean David Schizer and the students, faculty and staff of Columbia Law School mourn the death of Constance Baker Motley, graduate of the Columbia Law School Class of 1946. While studying law at Columbia, she met Thurgood Marshall and began her illustrious career in 
 ROSEN--Sarah. The partners, associates, and staff of Wechsler Harwood LLP grieve the passing of Sarah Rosen and extend their sincere sympathy to her family. Wechsler Harwood LLP ROSEN--Sarah. Sarah Rosen, a bright star. We grieve with our dear friends Sam & Edna. Suzanne & Robert Ha
 SIEGEL--Gonnie McClung died September 29th, age 77, in Gainesville, Florida, from complications of Alzheimer's disease. She had previously lived in the Florida Keys and in Bedford, N.Y. She was born in the Appalachian mountain hamlet of Mt. Lookout, West Virginia. Her ancestors were among t
 WEINSTEIN - Harriet. Be loved wife of 52 years of William, devoted mother of Robyn Cimbol (William) and Emily Davis (Elliott), loving grandmother of Andrew, Michelle, Michael and Lauren, sister of Gerald Kolbert (Marlene). Her sudden and unexpected death on September 30th leaves her family 
 CHRISTENSEN - Angela. Born in Brooklyn, NY, June 1936. Died there in the last week of September 2005. She is missed so much by all who knew her and by the family that will love her always, husband Ron, son Greg, daughter-in-law Bunny and grandson James. A memorial service date will be annou
 GRIFFIN-BURRILL-Kathleen R. F. Professor Emeritus of Turkish Studies at Columbia University, passed away suddenly following cardiac arrest in Seattle, Washington (USA), on September 18th. She was 81. Born in Canterbury, England, on March 8th, 1924, she worked for the British Council for ove
 FURST--Batya. Died Sunday, October 2nd, in Israel, where she had resided for 32 years. Beloved wife of Moshe for 58 years. Dear sister of Charlie Bick, Annie Berliner, Shirley Motechin and the late Rabbi Moshe Bick. Loving mother of Zev (Sandy), Malki (Dov Cymbalista) and Aryeh (Debi). Devo
 OKUN--Esther. Died September 30, 2005 at 92. Adored wife of the late Arthur Okun, sister of Ruth Glazer and George Woolf, M.D., beloved mother of Clark N. and wife Gail of Wayne, NJ, and Douglas B. and wife Cheryl, of Canton, MA. Devoted grandmother of Scott, Gina, Peter, Amy, Miriam and Aa
 GRIFFIN-BURRILL-Kathleen R. F. Professor Emeritus of Turkish Studies at Columbia University, passed away suddenly following cardiac arrest in Seattle, Washington (USA), on September 18th. She was 81. Born in Canterbury, England, on March 8th, 1924, she worked for the British Council for ove
 WEINSTEIN - Harriet. The Rabbis, Officers, Board of Trustees and staff of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York share in the grief over the death of Harriet Weinstein, mother of our dear colleague and friend, Robyn Weinstein Cimbol. To her entire family we express our profound sorro
 Betty Leslie-Melville, who called herself ''a total giraffe junkie'' and proved it not only by helping save a giraffe breed from extinction, but also by living amid the animals in a home called Giraffe Manor, died on Sept. 23 at a hospice in Baltimore. She was 78. The cause was comp
 FENCHEL--Caroline Neuhut. Of Brooklyn, NY, aged 93, died peacefully in her sleep at home in Orange County, CA., September 30, 2005. Retired teacher and guidance counselor of the NYC Board of Education, beloved wife of the late Leo, caring sister, loving mother, and devoted grandmother and f
 SHAPIRO--Ernest. Beloved husband of Nancy and the late Mae Shapiro. Loving father of Lisa, Douglas, Ross and Rena and stepfather of Stefani. Devoted brother of Rhoda and her husband Sidney Bressler. Adoring grandfather of Matthew, Jessica, Daniel, Emma, Nissa, Natalie and Michael. Loyal and
 TRUBOW--Fay Sonnenreich. Remembered with love by her sons, William and Michael Sonnenreich and their wives, Fran and Linda, by sister-in-law Rena, by her grandchildren David and Sharon, Peter and Debbie, Nina and Jonathan, Wes and Diana, by her great-grandchildren Rachel, Adina, Joey, Ethan
 BASCH--Marilyn Mahoney. On October 3, 2005. Beloved mother of Ursula. Devoted sister of Ursula Mahoney. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home 353 Second Avenue (at 20th St) NYC Wednesday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass 11 AM Thursday at The Epiphany R.C. Church. Interment Gate of Heaven
 KAPLOW--Beatrice, 87, after an epic struggle with brain cancer. Predeceased by her husband Herbert, survived by a family who loved and cherished her: son Michael, and granddaughter Jennifer (Eric) and Sharon; daughter Ellen (Ed) and grandson Matt; step - grandchildren Steve (Joanne) and Eli
 SCHOEN--Luise Bernstorff died peacefully at her home in Palm Beach on September 30th three days after her 90th birthday. Daughter of Hans Bernstorff and Julie Ammon Bernstorff, she was born in New York City in 1915 and lived most of her life in New York, Southampton, the last 25 years in Pa
 SHAPIRO--Ernest. Beloved husband of Nancy and the late Mae Shapiro. Loving father of Lisa, Douglas, Ross and Rena and stepfather of Stefani. Devoted brother of Rhoda and her husband Sidney Bressler. Adoring grandfather of Matthew, Jessica, Daniel, Emma, Nissa, Natalie and Michael. Loyal and
 PINCHIAROLI--Bianca. Born Vicenza Broglia on Christmas Eve 1912 in Albareto, Italy; died of old age in Douglaston Manor, NY on October 4, 2005. Wife of Ernest, mother of Mary Bottali and Dino, all of whom predeceased her. Second mother to Mario Bottali of Eatons Neck, NY, grandmother to Ren
 GRUENBERGER--Olga. 94, of NYC. A pioneer and matriarch died on October 4, 2005. She is survived by her husband of 70 years, Leslie; her children, Peter and Joyce (and their spouses, Carin and Carl); her grandchildren, Karen, Richard and Lauren (and their spouses, Bill, Brenda and David), an
 MILLER--Florence C. On October 4, 2005, age 94. Beloved wife of the late Aaron, loving mother of Beverly, Carl, Patti and the late Mitchel. Dear sister of Sheldon Chwast (Claire), the late Winifred Pollack and Ralph Chwast. Adoring grandmother of Andrea, Aaron, Alison and Ross. Dearest aunt
 SCHREYER--Greta Loebl. 88. Passed away peacefully on October 3, 2005. Beloved mother of Leslie and Linda and their spouses Judith and Terry. Adored grandmother of Evan, Jenna, Gabri and Jennie. Dearly loved wife of the late Oscar Schreyer and Eugen Loebl. Greta was also an artist to the cor
 SCHWARTZ--Therese M. On October 3, 2005. Survived by her longtime companion, David Haseltine; son, Jonathan; daughter, Joanna Kyd; brother, Benjamin Matt; granddaughter, Jessica Perez; and great-grandson, Nicholas Javier Perez. Artist, writer, feminist. Services Thursday, 1 P.M., at the Wil
 JOHNSON--Rosie Blake The friends of Rosie Blake Johnson (October 6th 1941February 6th 2005) wish to express their deep sorrow at the passing of one of such magnetic grace. She had become central to our lives, awakening us to wonders which by ourselves we would neither have envisioned nor so
 Sara Levi-Tanai, the choreographer and founding director of Inbal Dance Theater, whose pioneering mix of Yemenite Jewish traditions and contemporary dance long made it Israel's premier dance company, died on Monday in Ramat Gan, Israel. She was 94. Her death was announced by Chaim S
 BENOV--Ruth Gordon. Died September 27, 2005 at 92. Born 1913 in Mariupol, Russia. She came to the U.S. in 1933. She opened a dance studio, gave her heart and soul to special needs children with her dance and became the director of the Lorge School for Special Needs Children. She is preceded
 ELMEZZI--Jeanne. On October 6, 2005. Survived by many nieces, nephews, loving relatives and lifelong friends. Reposing with her husband Thomas, Friday at Lloyds Funeral Home, 214-43 39th Ave. Bayside. Mass of Christian burial for both Thomas and Jeanne will be held Saturday, 10 AM at St. Al
 KAY--Helen Dorothy. Died on October 4, 2005 at the age of 103. Before marrying Irving Kay on October 3, 1926 she wrote and acted in plays and short stories and received professional offers. As a conscientious wife and mother of two sons she still became an outstanding handball player and wo
 LOWENTHAL--Joanne. Artist, devoted mother, loving wife and daughter, died October 6, 2005 in the City that she loved. Her son Robert Litsky, her husband Tom Litsky, her parents Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Lowenthal, her family and friends, and all who were touched by her remarkable spirit and wi
 SHERMAN--Jeannine. After a brief illness, we sadly announce the passing of Jeannine on October 6, 2005, beloved wife of Claude for 59 years, devoted mother of Michel (Gloria), Jean-Claude (Karin) and Sylvie (Elie Bloch), adored grandmother of Adam, Chloe, Luke, Christopher and Benjamin. Bor
 McDERMOTT -- Margaret (nee Langan) on October 5, 2005. Formerly of Garden City and Douglaston, NY. Born in Brooklyn, New York on February 28, 1913. Devoted wife of the late William E. McDermott. Survived by her daughters Anne, Jeanne, Peggy Garland (Michael) & three grandchildren. Also surv
 JOHNSON--Rosie Blake The friends of Rosie Blake Johnson (October 6th 1941February 6th 2005) wish to express their deep sorrow at the passing of one of such magnetic grace. She had become central to our lives, awakening us to wonders which by ourselves we would neither have envisioned nor so
 EBER--Naomi, 71. Died suddenly on October 4, 2005. Beloved wife of 47 years of Robert Eber, she is also survived by her daughter, Elizabeth, of Wynnewood, PA, and her son, David, of Brookline, MA; and adored grandchildren, Adam, Jacob, Jonathan, and Rachel; and her brother, David Finkelstei
 HORTON--Roy. Of River Edge, New Jersey. Founder of Roy Horton Studios, Inc., NYC. Died October 6, 2005. Beloved husband of Henie. Devoted father of Sherri and her husband Howie Lippman and Jane and her husband Larry Kielt. Cherished Poppy of Jordan, Cecelia, Ariel, Andrew and Blair. Service
 LEICHTER -- Anna. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President       
 LOWENTHAL--Joanne. Artist, devoted mother, loving wife and daughter, died October 6, 2005 in the City that she loved. Her son Robert Litsky, her husband Tom Litsky, her parents Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Lowenthal, her family and friends, and all who were touched by her remarkable spirit and wi
 SCHATZOW--Joan. Died October 4 after a short illness. She is survived and loved by her daughters, Emily and Judy, and grandchildren, Rachel, Jonah, Briana, Will & Lila       
 SOFER--Janet E. October 6, 2005. Wife of Saul Sofer. Janet was a bright presence in our lives, a source of strength for her family and friends, a clear-eyed women of charm, courage, valor and character. Besides her husband, she is survived by her mother Geraldine, her brother Martin, and by
 FRIEDLANDER -- Hortense. On October 7, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Harry Friedlander. Loving mother of Lawrence, Ronnie Lynn and Bruce. Dear sister of Stanley and the late Shirley. Adoring grandmother of Stephanie, Lauren, Alana, Sharon, Barri Lynn, Rachel and Rebecca. She will be de
 ANDERSON--Madelyn Klein. With all our love, we mourn the passing of Madelyn Klein Anderson of New York, NY, age 79, on October 5, 2005. Her accomplishments were many. After graduating from Hunter College, she joined the military in 1954. She proudly served the U.S. Army WMSC, honorably disc
 BASES -- Muriel (Simpson). On October 7, 2005. Beloved wife of Joseph for 69 years, mother of Alan and Nan, grandmother of Edward and Amy, devoted aunt and friend of many. She will be missed and loved always.       
 BUCHBERG--Vera L. 82, died October 6, 2005 after a brief illness in Sarasota, FL. Formerly of Ardsley, NY. Social worker and volunteer for various social causes. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Abraham S. Buchberg. Survived by son Carl of NYC; daughter Lisa (Ralph Kaywin) and granddaughters Em
 CHARLESTON--Linda P. Age 60, passed away on Tuesday, October 4, 2005. A beloved daughter, sister and aunt, she is survived and remembered by her mother, Grace Charleston; her sister, Deborah S. (Richard) Raddock; and her 3 nephews. Linda was a gifted artist. After graduating from Sarah Lawr
 EBER--Naomi, 71. Died suddenly on October 4, 2005. Beloved wife of 47 years of Robert Eber, she is also survived by her daughter, Elizabeth, of Wynnewood, PA, and her son, David, of Brookline, MA; and adored grandchildren, Adam, Jacob, Jonathan, and Rachel; and her brother, David Finkelstei
 KERN--Edith. On September 29, 2005. Author, scholar, university professor in comparative Literature and Arts-served as national (VicePresident and) President of the Modern Language Association (MLA) 1976-77--the fifth woman only so honored since its founding in 1884. In 1981, she was electe
 LOWENTHAL--Joanne. Artist, devoted mother, loving wife and daughter, died October 6, 2005 in the City that she loved. Her son Robert Litsky, her husband Tom Litsky, her parents Mr. and Mrs. Robert S. Lowenthal, her family and friends, and all who were touched by her remarkable spirit and wi
 REID--Barrie B. September 25, 2005. Devoted daughter of the late Everett and Carolyn Reid. Beloved sister of Peter and the late Everett Reid and sister-in-law of Priscilla and Linda. Loving aunt and greataunt. Graduate of Wheaton College and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
 WEISS--Ann. 90, on October 7, 2005 at home. Wife of the late Jules. Survived by daughter, granddaughters, great-grandchildren, brother, nieces, nephews and friends. She was larger than life until the end, and will be dearly missed.       
 FRIEDLANDER - Hortense. On October 7, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Harry Friedlander. Loving mother of Lawrence, Ronnie Lynn and Bruce. Dear sister of Stanley and the late Shirley. Adoring grandmother of Stephanie, Lauren, Alana, Sharon, Barri Lynn, Rachel and Rebecca. She will be dee
 The Rev. Mother Benedict Duss, who in the late 1940's helped found the first monastery for cloistered Benedictine nuns in the United States but stepped down as its abbess in 1995 amid a Vatican investigation into charges that it was being run in an authoritarian, cultlike manner, died Oct. 
 BUCHBERG--Vera L. 82, died October 6, 2005 after a brief illness in Sarasota, FL. Formerly of Ardsley, NY. Social worker and volunteer for various social causes. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Abraham S. Buchberg. Survived by son Karl of NYC; daughter Lisa (Ralph Kaywin) and granddaughters Em
 CUMMINS--Marsha Z. (nee Hirsch), age 67, died of breast cancer on Saturday, October 8. She was a faculty member in the English Departments of Bronx Community College, CUNY and previously at Morgan State University. A native of Detroit, MI, she was married for 42 years to physicist Herman Z.
 DEITCH--Belle. It is with deep regret and sorrow that we announce the passing of our dear friend and esteemed honorary member, Belle Deitch, October 6, 2005. Mrs. Deitch was the wife of founding member, the late Aleon Deitch. We extend our sincerest condolences to her family. David C. Bubes
 HANKIN -- Kathleen Helene Mary Keane. Of Riverdale, NY, passed away peacefully September 30, after a 12 year battle with Alzheimer's Disease. Preceded in death by her adoring husband of 48 years, Leonard, and her younger daughter, Lyn Hankin Golden. Born in Waterbury, CT, in 1927, to Michae
 HARRIS--Amber Jane Harrington. Enthusiast. Born in Manhattan, October 22, 1935; died at home in the Bronx, October 6, 2005. Survived by her father W. Clark Harrington, children Jennie Amber Harrington Harris, Kenneth David Harris Jr., and Anne Clark Harris Carlson (Eric), grandson Henry Wil
 LEVINE--Gladys. On October 7, 2005. Beloved wife of the late George. Devoted mother of Myron, Ronald, Ellen and Michael. Adoring grandmother of Rita and Joshua. Ecstatic great-grandmother of Jonathan. She will remain in our hearts forever.       
 ZOREK--Elizabeth M. Daughter of the late Emmanuel and Josephine Perl. Loving wife of the late John. Devoted mother of Jeffrey and his wife Janet. Beloved grandmother of Samuel and Sophia. Dear aunt of Robert and Laurie and their children Alison and Liza. Born in Vienna on April 29, 1919, an
 FRIEDLANDER--Hortense. Beautiful elegant lady. Mother of our dearest friend Ronnie DiPaolo. Horty, we will miss you. Laurie and Ellis Disick $(6$)FRIEDLANDER -- Hortense. A special aunt. She will be missed. Gail and Jeffrey Stadler       
 ADLER--Susan Seidenberg. February 27, 1956 to October 9, 2005. Daughter of the late Jerry and Gloria Seidenberg. Beloved wife of Richard Adler. Loving and devoted mother of Jacob Thomas and Leah Rose Adler. Treasured sister of Jane Seidenberg. Best friend to Biscuit & Misty. Susan was a lif
 EPSTEIN--Eleanore. Devoted wife of Herman. Beloved mother of Robert and the late Owen. After a long illness, she passed away quietly at home. Services Wednesday, 11:15AM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, N.Y.       
 HANKIN -- Kathleen Helene Mary Keane. Of Riverdale, NY, passed away peacefully September 30, after a 12 year battle with Alzheimer's Disease. Preceded in death by her adoring husband of 48 years, Leonard, and her younger daughter, Lyn Hankin Golden. Born in Waterbury, CT, in 1927, to Michae
 ZOREK--Elizabeth M. Daughter of the late Emmanuel and Josephine Perl. Loving wife of the late John. Devoted mother of Jeffrey and his wife Janet. Beloved grandmother of Samuel and Sophia. Dear aunt of Robert and Laurie and their children Alison and Liza. Born in Vienna on April 29, 1919, an
 FRIEDLANDER - Hortense. A special aunt. She will be missed. Gail and Jeffrey Stadler       
 BADER--Amy Scribner, 41. Loving and deeply devoted wife of John; adoring mother of William and George; sister of Hillary Hayne; aunt of Zachary, Bea, and Madeleine; daughter of Bob Scribner and Susan Thea. Amy lived a full life, healthy and radiant until cancer took her swiftly. Family and 
 COOK--Marie. (nee Loscalzo) October 10, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Melvin Patrick, loving and devoted mother of Mary Ann Edesess, Patricia and her late husband John Hult, William Cook, and Howard and Maureen Cook. Cherished grandmother of Marie and Sebastian Hardy, Billy and Allison Hul
 CUMMINS--Marsha Z. (nee Hirsch), age 67, died of breast cancer on Saturday, October 8. She was a faculty member in the English Departments of Bronx Community College, CUNY and previously at Morgan State University. A native of Detroit, MI, she was married for 42 years to physicist Herman Z.
 EPSTEIN--Eleanore. Devoted wife of Herman. Beloved mother of Robert and the late Owen. After a long illness, she passed away quietly at home. Services Wednesday, 11:15AM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, N.Y. $(6$)EPSTEIN -- Eleanore. The Jewish 
 TONKOWICH--JoAnne. February 24, 1948--October 8, 2005. JoAnne celebrated life and touched many hearts along the way. JoAnne was a devoted wife to Robert, sharing 35 wonderful years and many adventures, both local and abroad. JoAnne was a loving mother to Stephanie, grandmother to Lorenzo, d
 McNEILL--Charlotte. The partners, associates and staff of Chadbourne & Parke LLP mourn with great sadness the passing on October 9, 2005 of our cherished friend and colleague. Charlotte joined Chadbourne in 1952 and was an integral part of Chadbourne for 53 years. During her long journey wi
 ROSENFIELD--Geraldine (Rosenfeld). Of Bedford, MA, formerly of New York City on Monday, October 10, 2005. Widow of Zelman. Mother of Don Rosenfield of California and Rachel Lafo and her husband Joe of Bedford, Massachusetts. Grandmother of Devin, Jacob & Sabrina. Sister of the late Frances 
 BADER--Amy Scribner, 41. Loving and deeply devoted wife of John; adoring mother of William and George; sister of Hillary Hayne; aunt of Zachary, Bea, and Madeleine; daughter of Bob Scribner and Susan Thea. Amy lived a full life, healthy and radiant until cancer took her swiftly. Family and 
 COOK--Marie. (nee Loscalzo) October 10, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Melvin Patrick, loving and devoted mother of Mary Ann Edesess, Patricia and her late husband John Hult, William Cook, and Howard and Maureen Cook. Cherished grandmother of Marie and Sebastian Hardy, Billy and Allison Hul
 GOLDBERG -- Reggie. We mourn the passing of Reggie, a true woman of valor. Loving wife of Jerry, devoted mother of our dear friends Marlene and Steve Baum and her beloved son Larry who predeceased her. Reggie was a dynamo who was devoted to her grandchildren Remy and Dylan, her extended fam
 SHEDLIN--Sandra (Sandy). Died October 11. She leaves her husband Larry of 50 years, sons Steven and Paul, daughter Jane Pollack and her husband Mitchell. Five grandchildren, Ben and Julia Shedlin and Jessica, Arielle and Zachary Pollack, as well as her devoted sister, Phyllis Sackler. Servi
 McNEILL--Charlotte. The partners, associates and staff of Chadbourne & Parke LLP mourn with great sadness the passing on October 9, 2005 of our cherished friend and colleague. Charlotte joined Chadbourne in 1952 and was an integral part of Chadbourne for 53 years. During her long journey wi
 BADER--Amy Scribner, 41. Loving and deeply devoted wife of John; adoring mother of William and George; sister of Hillary Hayne; aunt of Zachary, Bea, and Madeleine; daughter of Bob Scribner and Susan Thea. Amy lived a full life, healthy and radiant until cancer took her swiftly. Family and 
 CUMMINS--Marsha Z. (nee Hirsch), age 67, died of breast cancer on Saturday, October 8. She was a faculty member in the English Departments of Bronx Community College, CUNY and previously at Morgan State University. A native of Detroit, MI, she was married for 42 years to physicist Herman Z.
 FINKEL--Ruth Schachner. On October 12, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Daniel Finkel. Devoted and loving mother to Noah and Risa Finkel, Stanley Turitz and the late Eileen Turitz. Adored grandmother to Joseph and Orlee Turitz, Jeffrey and Karen Wasserstein, Micah and Mollie Finkel. Cherished
 GOLDBERG -- Reggie. We mourn the passing of Reggie, a true woman of valor. Loving wife of Jerry, devoted mother of our dear friends Marlene and Steve Baum and her beloved son Larry who predeceased her. Reggie was a dynamo who was devoted to her grandchildren Remy and Dylan, her extended fam
 HEILBRUN--Myrna. The employees of Aron Streit, Inc., wish to express their heartfelt condolences to the family of Myrna Heilbrun on her untimely passing. She will be missed by all. HEILBRUN -- Myrna. We worked with her, we laughed with her. We shall miss her very much. Muriel & Rene
 HUNT--Betty Lee. On October 11, 2005. Survived by her loving partner Maria Cristina Pucci. Also survived by Leda, Ralph, Ann and John Pucci, sister Aileen Hunt and Saul Hunt and several nieces and nephews. Donations in her memory preferred to The Actor's Fund or Visiting Nurse Service of NY
 KEHL--Pearl J. Beloved wife of the late H. William. Beloved mother of Jeffrey and Shelley, cherished grandmother of Alexander Harry and Danielle Leah, beloved sister of Bert and adored by our many cousins, family and friends. She lived a long, full life and passed away quietly at home in he
 SOMSBY--Ada N. October 12, at age 101. Widow of Saul. Beloved mother of Joyce and Myron Friedman, and Marjorie and Stanley Rose. Loving grandchildren Amy Carusone, Alyssa Owens, John Friedman, Henry Rose, Jane Berlant. Adored great-grandchildren Rebecca and Holly Owens, Benjamin and Adam Ro
 Vivian Malone Jones, who on a blisteringly hot June day in 1963 became one of two black students to enroll at the University of Alabama after first being barred at the door by the defiant governor, George C. Wallace, died yesterday in Atlanta. She was 63. The cause was a stroke, her
 GOLDBERG--Regina (Reggie). A remarkable and proud woman who dedicated her life to her family and many noble causes. She was an Honorary President and founding member of the Ladies Auxilliary (LASHA), and faithfully served as Vice President of the Sephardic Nursing and Rehabilitation Center.
 SLOMINSKY--Gertrude (nee Gordon). On October 13, 2005, Yom Kippur. Beloved wife of the late David. Loving mother of Marla (Jonathan) and Jacob (Susan). Cherished grandmother of Erica and Bryan, Adam, Bryan and Jillian. Great grandmother of Andrew, Abigail and Hannah. Dear sister of Eli and 
 SPINA--Cynthia. Loved and cherished daughter of Barbara Mitchell and the late Michael Mitchell, wonderful and caring sister to Barbara Anne Palumbo, Maria and Michael Mitchell, devoted aunt to Justine, Taylor, William, Noelle, Nikki, Joey and Dylan. She was the kindest and most courageous w
 BEHRMAN -- Ann Nelson. Died at home with her family in Belvedere, California, on September 28, 2005. She was 72. Ann grew up in Cincinnati and Philadelphia. She graduated from Mount Holyoke College and earned a Masters in Education from Reed College. Ann met Richard Behrman in college in 19
 CLOSE--Anne Purves. Age 69, died peacefully at her home on October 12, 2005. Residing in Manhattan since 1952, she lived a full life highlighted by numerous professional and charitable accomplishments, including a successful career as a model/actress and as an editor for Book-of-the-Month C
 DONOVAN--Edythe Thurber. 82, of Essex, CT, and Narragansett, RI, died on October 12, 2005. Prior to moving to Essex, she and her husband had lived in Pelham, NY, for 53 years. ''Edie'' was born in NYC, the daughter of Caroline (Andrews) Thurber and Vice Admiral H.R. Thurber. She attended We
 EICHNER--Merle. On October 13, 2005. Much beloved wife, mother, grandmother and mother-in-law. Will be missed forever by those who loved her.       
 FREEMAN--Joy. We mourn with broken hearts the death of Joy, beloved mother, grandmother, sister and aunt. Her unconditional love and support have always been there for us. We will miss her wit and humor. She will forever remain in our thoughts. From All of Us       
 GOLDBERG--Regina (Reggie). A remarkable and proud woman who dedicated her life to her family and many noble causes. She was an Honorary President and founding member of the Ladies Auxilliary (LASHA), and faithfully served as Vice President of the Sephardic Nursing and Rehabilitation Center.
 HUNT--Betty Lee. On October 11, 2005. Survived by her loving partner Maria Cristina Pucci. Also survived by the Pucci Family and sister Aileen and brother Saul. $(6$)HUNT--Betty Lee. Good-bye dear friend, and thank you for everything. Julian and Bob       
 KRAEMER--Ruth. Art historian and longtime researcher at the Pierpont Morgan Library, died September 27 in New York City. She worked for the Morgan Library under each of its directors and among her many projects, she wrote the catalogue of the Benjamin West exhibit, translated the ''Histoire
 TROTTA - Geraldine. Geri died at her New York City home recently. The Barnard graduate, author and editor packed her 90 years full of adventure, travel and food. She shared them with the world in many publications. An editor of Harper's Bazaar and longtime Gourmet Magazine correspondent, sh
 WELLS--Viola. Known as Dotty, on October 11, 2005, of New York City, Scarsdale and Brant Lake, New York. Beloved wife of the late Jay Wells. Loving and beloved mother of Richard J. Wells, Katherine J. Wells and Elizabeth Wells Elkin. Loving and beloved grandmother of Laura, Benjamin, Joshua
 FFOLLIOTT -- Gertrude Boeckmann of Boca Grande, FL, died in White Bear Lake, MN, on October 10th after a brief illness at the age of 90. Born in St. Paul on July 25, 1915. Daughter of the late Dr. Egil and Rachel Hill Boeckmann; sister of the late Mary Boeckmann. Last surviving grandchild o
 Betty Lee Hunt, a longtime Broadway and nightclub publicist and producer, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said her partner, Maria Pucci. Among the many shows Ms. Hunt publicized were the original Broadway productions of ''S
 BOARDMAN--Jean (Richardson). Age 94, died October 15, 2005, following a nine-year battle with Alzheimer's disease, at the Medical Center of Princeton. She had lived at Meadow Lakes in Hightstown, NJ, for 16 years. A longtime resident of Maplewood and Short Hills, NJ, she was born on July 24
 DONOVAN--Edythe Thurber. 82, of Essex, CT, and Narragansett, RI, died on October 12, 2005. Prior to moving to Essex, she and her husband had lived in Pelham, NY, for 53 years. ''Edie'' was born in NYC, the daughter of Caroline (Andrews) Thurber and Vice Admiral H.R. Thurber. She attended We
 GILLERAN--Marsha K. On October 11. Passed away after a courageous and spirited battle of seven years with BAC lung cancer. After a viewing last week at the Frank E. Campbell ''The Funeral Chapel'' and a Mass at St. John the Evangelist R.C. Church in Manhattan, she was laid to rest in the pl
 PATT--Celia Ecker. Died October 15th, 2005, in Yonkers, where she resided her entire life. Loving wife of the late Max Patt and devoted sisterin-law to his family. Survived by her adoring sister Marian Zimmerman and her brothers Sidney, William and Jerome. Predeceased by her sisters Flora R
 DIXON--Mary Heller. Of Scarsdale passed away on October 16, 2005. Mary is survived by her husband George, and her son George (G.J.), her brothers, Arthur & Brian Heller and her sister Catherine Lenihan. Family and friends may visit the Edwin L. Bennett Funeral Home in Scarsdale, NY, 914725-
 McCORKLE--Margaret Olwen, who bounded across many stages in her lifetime, died October 15, 2005 after a brief illness. Maggie graduated from the U. of Kentucky with a BA in Drama and, after appearing in summer stock, landed in NY where she appeared in Julius Monk's cabaret revues and ''The 
 MEYER--Lillian. Peacefully passed away on October 16, 2005 at home. Beloved mother, grandmother and great grandmother. She will be greatly missed. Private memorial service.       
 REAVIS--Thetis Touliatou, of New York and Stonington, CT, unexpectedly on October 14, 2005. Adoring of and adored by her daughter and son-in-law, Helen D. (''Heidi'') Reavis, and Steven Engel, and loving of and loved by her sister and brother-in-law, Diana and Roy Vagelos, her nieces and ne
 SHAPIRO--Edna K. Of Manhattan, NY, passed away peacefully at her home at the age of 80. Mother of Saul and Dan, grandmother of Amelia, Adin, and Toby. A tribute to her work as a developmental psychologist, will be held at Bank Street College of Education on Nov. 11th at 4 P.M.       
 WEISS--Florence E. On October 16, 2005. Beloved wife of Benjamin. Loving mother of Ronni and Michele. Loving grandmother of Eric, Seth, Meredith, Matthew & Jordan. Beloved great grandmother of Drew, Ryan and Juliette. She is also survived by her sister, Lee Weldon.       
 DIXON--Mary Heller. Of Scarsdale passed away on October 16, 2005. Mary is survived by her husband George, and her son George (G.J.), her brothers, Arthur & Brian Heller and her sister Catherine Lenihan. Family and friends may visit the Edwin L. Bennett Funeral Home in Scarsdale, NY, 914725-
 LOWENSTEIN--Helen M. On October 15, 2005 in her 88th year. Loving and beloved sister of the late Franklyn and sister-in-law of Louise. Graveside service Thursday at 1:30 P.M., Mount Carmel Cemetery.       
 MORITZ--Jane. On October 17, 2005. Loving mother of Kirk and Nicole. Sister of Barbara, Johnny and Susan and special ''Marme'' of Hailey. Service Thursday 11:30AM at the ''Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of donations in her name can be made to Advanced Research Foundation, 44
 REAVIS--Thetis Touliatou, of New York and Stonington, CT, unexpectedly on October 14, 2005. Adoring of and adored by her daughter and son-in-law, Helen D. (''Heidi'') Reavis, and Steven Engel, and loving of and loved by her sister and brother-in-law, Diana and Roy Vagelos, her nieces and ne
 SHAPIRO--Edna K. Of Manhattan, NY, passed away peacefully at her home at the age of 80. Mother of Saul and Dan, grandmother of Amelia, Adin, and Toby. A tribute to her work as a developmental psychologist, will be held at Bank Street College of Education on Nov. 11th at 4 P.M.       
 ROBERTSON--Elizabeth King, 53. Lizzy died October 12, 2005 from cancer, peacefully in her sleep at her home in Alameda, California. She is survived by many loving and devoted relatives, including her husband James Robertson, parents Henry L. King and Mary S. King, stepmother Margaret G. Kin
 GODFREY--Willa Hay. 93, of Orient, NY, died in her sleep on October 6, 2005. A splendid character, she is survived by her daughter Durell Godfrey. A memorial will be held in Orient in the spring.       
 LOGGIA--Marjorie. Friend to many and loved by all. Died peacefully surrounded by family and friends on October 19, 2005 at her home in New York City. She is survived by three children, Tracey Loggia FitzSimons, John Loggia and Kristina Loggia, and five grandchildren, Noah, Kate, Gideon, Spe
 RESSLER--Dorothy, on October 19, 2005. Cherished and adored wife of the late Ira. Beloved mother of Debra Black, Bruce, Jon, Richard and Tony Ressler. Loving mother-in-law of Leon, Ellen, Alison and Jami. Proud grandmother of Benjamin, Joshua, Samantha, Jillian, Alexander, Matthew, Andrew, 
 ROBERTSON--Elizabeth King, 53. Lizzy died October 12, 2005 from cancer, peacefully in her sleep at her home in Alameda, California. She is survived by many loving and devoted relatives, including her husband James Robertson, parents Henry L. King and Mary S. King, stepmother Margaret G. Kin
 FISHBEIN--Rosalyn. Passed away on October 9. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Survived by her loving daughters, sons-inlaw, granddaughters, greatgranddaughter and sister. She will be missed forever.       
 HERTZ--Renee L. Of Riverside Drive and Accord, NY, passed away on October 18, 2005. She is survived by her children and her in-law children, Genie, Eric and Troy, Michele and Larry, Franny and Ira; her grandchildren, Cade, Doug, Emilia, Isabel, Robert, Ronald and Teal; her brother, Arthur L
 LICHTEN--Dorian. Beloved wife of Burton. Devoted mother to Linda and John, loving grandmother of Julie, Jason, Michael, Adam, Seth, Genevieve and Harrison. Passed away October 19, 2005. She will be greatly missed by her family and friends. Graveside services.       
 LOGGIA--Marjorie. Friend to many and loved by all. Died peacefully surrounded by family and friends on October 19, 2005 at her home in New York City. She is survived by three children, Tracey Loggia FitzSimons, John Loggia and Kristina Loggia, and five grandchildren, Noah, Kate, Gideon, Spe
 NEEDLEMAN--Gitti. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Yaakov Y. Kermaier, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman J. Ezra Merkin, President $(6$)NEEDLEMAN--Gitti. Women's Branch, Ortho
 RABER--Mary on October 20, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Maxwell. Devoted mother of Joyce. Loving sister of the late Al, Ben and Sam Zinman and cherished aunt. Loved by all who knew her.       
 RESSLER--Dorothy, on October 19, 2005. Cherished and adored wife of the late Ira. Beloved mother of Debra Black, Bruce, Jon, Richard and Tony Ressler. Loving mother-in-law of Leon, Ellen, Alison and Jami. Proud grandmother of Benjamin, Joshua, Samantha, Jillian, Alexander, Matthew, Andrew, 
 RHEA--Suzanne Menocal. Died at her home at The Greenbrier on October 19, 2005. Mrs. Rhea was the wife of the late Alexander D. Rhea III (Princeton 1941) & mother of the late Mark Alexander Rhea. Suzanne who was noted for her extraordinary beauty and the grace with which she entertained frie
 SASLOW--Emily L., 26, October 17, 2005. Daughter of Diane and Bill, sister of Michael. Survived by her loving family and devoted friends. Raised in Denver, Valedictorian East High School, 1997, graduated Yale with Honors 2001, University of Pennsylvania Law School JD, cum laude 2005. Clerk 
 SHAPIRO -- Edna K. The Trustees, Administration, Faculty, Staff, and Alumni of Bank Street College of Education mourn the passing of Dr. Edna K. Shapiro, Distinguished Research Psychologist, Emerita. Dr. Shapiro joined the Research Division at the College in 1951, and served as a lead resea
 LEVITT--Esther, 91. On October 19, 2005 at her home in Greenwich Village. She was the dynamic VP of the Security Plan of District 65. She was a world traveller, a lover of the arts and always spoke the truth. Barbara and I will miss her. She was my mentor, friend and ''aunt''. Graveside Ser
 MASLIN--Frieda, on October 21, 2005. In her 89th year of a life of unblemished goodness. Loving mother of Bonnie and her dear late son, Steven. Beloved grandmother of David and Sarah Nir. Devoted mother-in-law of Dr. Yehuda Nir. Special Aunt Frieda of Aaron, Daniel, Jill, and Satoko. Proud 
 ROTH -- Rona. Beloved daughter, wife, mother, sister, grandmother and aunt. Devoted friend and teacher. We mourn your passing and we celebrate your wisdom, goodness and compassion. We will love you forever. Service Sunday, October 23, 11:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St at Amsterdam Avenue.
 Shirley Horn, a jazz singer and pianist who drew audiences close with a powerfully confidential, vibratoless delivery, died yesterday at a nursing home in Cheverly, Md. She was 71. Her death was announced by Regina Joskow, vice president of publicity at the Verve Music Group, Ms. Horn's lab
 BAUM--Essie. Died peacefully on October 20. Devoted wife of the late Sam. Mother of the late Shelia and Barbara the wife of Arthur Lerner. Grandmother to Scot, Stacy, Stefanie and spouses Marisa, Peter and Eric. Great-grandmother to Jake, Harrison, Charles, Lily, Cooper and Carson. Mom, you
 FISHBEIN--Rosalyn. Passed away on October 9. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Survived by her loving daughters, sons-inlaw, granddaughters, greatgranddaughter and sister. She will be missed forever.       
 KRULL--Sylvia R. (nee Gerber) of Boynton Beach, FL, and Englewood, NJ, on October 16. Born August 15, 1920 in Newark, NJ. Loving sister, wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Married 64 years to the late Hyman Krull. Survived by daughter Elise Herz and sons Arthur, Albert and Dav
 LEVITT--Esther, 91. On October 19, 2005 at her home in Greenwich Village. She was the dynamic VP of the Security Plan of District 65. She was a world traveller, a lover of the arts and always spoke the truth. Barbara and I will miss her. She was my mentor, friend and ''aunt''. Graveside Ser
 LICHTEN--Dorian. Beloved wife of Burton. Devoted mother to Linda and John, loving grandmother of Julie, Jason, Michael, Adam, Seth, Genevieve and Harrison. Passed away October 19, 2005. She will be greatly missed by her family and friends. Graveside services. $(6$)LICHTEN--Dorian S.
 MASLIN--Frieda, on October 21, 2005. In her 89th year of a life of unblemished goodness. Loving mother of Bonnie and her dear late son, Steven. Beloved grandmother of David and Sarah Nir. Devoted mother-in-law of Dr. Yehuda Nir. Special Aunt Frieda of Aaron, Daniel, Jill, and Satoko. Proud 
 MILLER--Alice F. With profound sadness we announce her passing on October 20, 2005. Sy Miller and Sylvia Kane       
 MIRON--Ayala. Cherished and adored wife of Amihai Miron; beloved and devoted mother of Benjamin, Jonathan, Michelle, and David; loving daughter of Jeannine Loran and Haim Loran; proud sister of Michael Loran. A woman of valor who dedicated herself to her husband and children. Born and raise
 ORLOFSKY--Pearl (nee Seidenberg). Died October 15 in Coconut Creek, FL, formerly of Sea Gate, Brooklyn, at age 105 years and 7 months. Widow of Matthew Harnett, Murray Newman and Sam Orlofsky. Beloved mother of Harriet (and the late George) Marks, Barbara and Kenneth Weil. Adoring and adore
 PART--Mildred. Of Englewood Cliffs, NJ. Beloved wife of 46 years to Dr. Louis Part. Loving mother of Charles, Joseph and Howard. Cherished grandmother of Sarah. She will be deeeply missed by everyone. Services Monday, 11:30 AM, ''Gutterman-Musicant,'' 402 Park Street, Hackensack, NJ.       
 REAVIS--Thetis Touliatou, of New York and Stonington, CT, unexpectedly on October 14, 2005. Adoring of and adored by her daughter and son-in-law, Helen D. (''Heidi'') Reavis, and Steven Engel, and loving of and loved by her sister and brother-in-law, Diana and Roy Vagelos, her nieces and ne
 RHEA--Suzanne Menocal. Died at her home at The Greenbrier on October 19, 2005. Mrs. Rhea was the wife of the late Alexander D. Rhea III (Princeton 1941) & mother of the late Mark Alexander Rhea. Suzanne who was noted for her extraordinary beauty and the grace with which she entertained frie
 SASLOW--Emily L., 26, October 17, 2005. Daughter of Diane and Bill, sister of Michael. Survived by her loving family and devoted friends. Raised in Denver, Valedictorian East High School, 1997, graduated Yale with Honors 2001, University of Pennsylvania Law School JD, cum laude 2005. Clerk 
 GREENSPAN--Phyllis. The staff, Trustees and Volunteer Association of the Jewish Museum mourn the loss on September 22, 2005 of our former colleague of 20 years, Phyllis Greenspan. As a teacher and docent, she engaged colleagues and visitors of all ages with her charm, knowledge and a deep c
 STAPLETON -- Margaret Alice. A Memorial Service will be held for Alice, age 76, widow of Lawrence V. Stapleton, both longtime residents of NYC, Quogue and Westhampton. Alice was born in NYC on December 2, 1928. She had begun her career as a dancer in both Las Vegas and NYC; with her husband
 GIBSON--Sally Mather. Of Drumore, PA, died on October 20, 2005. Born October 31, 1923, in NYC. Survived by her husband John, daughters, Eleanor, Wylie and Alexandra, sons, Jonathan, J. Chester, Christopher, Anthony and Douglas, and five grandchildren. Interment private. Memorial service at 
 LOCKER--Bernice. Beloved wife of the late Theodore Locker. Devoted mother of Alan Locker and Judy Berger, and mother-in-law of Nancy and Brian. Loving grandmother of Alison (Richard), Katherine (Nicholas), Sarah and Jonathan Locker and Amanda and Christopher Berger. Proud great-grandmother 
 BERGMAN--Maxine (Feinberg) of Hartsdale, N.Y. on October 24, 2005 died at the age of 77. She is survived by her husband of 56 years Melvyn H.; loving children Gene & Wendy and Keith and Jill; dear grandchildren Elijah, Hilary, and Woody; loving brother Philip and sister-inlaw Eileen. She li
 GARCIA--Rosita D. in loving memory of our beloved sister who died on Friday, October 21, 2005. Funeral Mass will be held on Tuesday, October 25 at our Lady of the Angelus Church. Family and friends will miss her.       
 HAMMOND--Daisy, 88. Of Essex, CT, died October 23. Born in Stockholm, Sweden. She was pursuing a career in law when she realized her talents lay in Fashion Design. She graduated from the prestigious Marta Skolan, continued her studies at Sorbonne, and interned at the House of Chanel, before
 LAGER--Lynn Andra, DDS of Dix Hills, NY on October 23, 2005. Beloved wife of Frederick James Bock. Loving daughter of Helen Newman and the late Dr. Jack Lager. Beloved mother of June Krinsky-Rudder & Donna Krinsky Romano and devoted mother-in-law of Harold Rudder & Anthony Romano. Loving an
 NOLAN -- Elizabeth Dunne. Passed peacefully October 23, 2005. A mean forehand, a wry smile, an indomitable spirit--she will be remembered always by her beloved husband of 53 years, Philip; her beloved children Elizabeth, Philip, David, Joyce, Charles, Kenneth, Virginia, Carola and Edward; a
 SCWHARTZ--Ruth. Died peacefully on October 23. Devoted wife of the late Harold. Loving mother of Eric and Jane, Peter and Sheryl. Devoted grandmother to Ivy, Michael, Marci, Amy, Cujoe and Jonathan. Great-grandmother to Mac and Seli. She was loved by all and will always be remembered in our
 Rosa Parks, a black seamstress whose refusal to relinquish her seat to a white man on a city bus in Montgomery, Ala., almost 50 years ago grew into a mythic event that helped touch off the civil rights movement of the 1950's and 1960's, died yesterday at her home in Detroit. She was 92 year
 BERGMAN--Maxine (Feinberg) of Hartsdale, N.Y. on October 24, 2005 died at the age of 77. She is survived by her husband of 56 years Melvyn H.; loving children Gene & Wendy and Keith and Jill; dear grandchildren Elijah, Hilary, and Woody; loving brother Philip and sister-inlaw Eileen. She li
 LAGER--Lynn Andra, DDS of Dix Hills, NY on October 23, 2005. Beloved wife of Frederick James Bock. Loving daughter of Helen Newman and the late Dr. Jack Lager. Beloved mother of June Krinsky-Rudder & Donna Krinsky Romano and devoted mother-in-law of Harold Rudder & Anthony Romano. Loving an
 LANDO--Ruth. (Yoy Yoy). Beloved sister of Sarah Gewirtz. Passed away October 18 in Delray Beach, FL. She is missed by nieces, nephews and all who knew and loved her. Send contributions to: Take Charge! Cure Parkinsons, 1489 W. Palmetto Park Rd., Boca Raton, FL 33486.       
 MORHOUSE -- Robin Ann (nee Gaul), 61, of Summit and Ticonderoga, NY, on Friday, October 21, 2005. Beloved wife of Sanford W. Morhouse. Loving mother of Cindy Bardwil and her husband David, Julie and Sanford ''Skip'' Morhouse. Devoted grandmother of John, Andrew and Margaret Bardwil. Dearest
 MORLEY--Margot Z. Of Larchmont, NY and Delray Beach, FL. on October 25, 2005 after a long illness at age 88. Born Marguerite Madeline Zimmer in Pittsburgh, PA to Ben and Nellie Zimmer who emigrated from Luxembourg to the US in 1913. Mrs. Morley lived in Larchmont for 83 years during which t
 NOLAN -- Elizabeth Dunne. Passed peacefully October 23, 2005. A mean forehand, a wry smile, an indomitable spirit--she will be remembered always by her beloved husband of 53 years, Philip; her beloved children Elizabeth, Philip, David, Joyce, Charles, Kenneth, Virginia, Carola and Edward; a
 Enid A. Haupt, whose philanthropy benefited libraries, museums and hospitals but who devoted much of her considerable fortune to creating public gardens and preserving horticultural institutions, died on Tuesday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 99, and also kept a residence in Manhat
 AUSTIN--Mary Virginia (Dinny) Snow, Beloved wife of the late Howard Austin passed away October 23. Funeral services at Newcomer's Stine & McClure Chapel in Kansas City, MO. October 29. Memorial service in New York will be held at a later date. She is survived by her daughter, Jeremy; son, H
 BARISH--Sylvia, 89, died peacefully at home October 25, 2005. Survived by Murray, her beloved husband of 71 years, and her eternally loving children, Marilyn and Mel Manin, Joan and Al Chasen, and Carl and Rose Barish. Sylvia knew the importance of being a mother, long before motherhood was
 HAUPT--Enid A. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and staff of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center note, with sorrow, the death of Enid A. Haupt, member of the Board of Overseers from 1979 to 1998 and one of the Center's most active and innovative philanthropists for more than half a ce
 KRANZ--Mania. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother and mother-inlaw of our members, Fran and Jonah Kupietzky. May their entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood $(6$
 LANDO--Ruth. (Yoy Yoy). Beloved sister of Sarah Gewirtz. Passed away October 18 in Delray Beach, FL. She is missed by nieces, nephews and all who knew and loved her. Send contributions to: Take Charge! Cure Parkinsons, 1489 W. Palmetto Park Rd., Boca Raton, FL 33486.       
 LEVINE--Adina Salomon. On October 26. Beloved mother, wife, sister, sister-in-law, aunt, cherished friends. You were taken from us too soon. Your uniqueness and beauty, generosity and courage will be forever with us. Love and sympathy go out to her children Calley and Eric, husband Howard, 
 MORLEY--Margot Z. Of Larchmont, NY and Delray Beach, FL. on October 25, 2005 after a long illness at age 88. Born Marguerite Madeline Zimmer in Pittsburgh, PA to Ben and Nellie Zimmer who emigrated from Luxembourg to the US in 1913. Mrs. Morley lived in Larchmont for 83 years during which t
 ROGICH--Ronnie, Chestnut55, died in New York City on October 24, 2005 of complications from viral pneumonia. She was born June 10, 1950 in Ione, Washington to Ranny and Ted Rogich. She was raised and spent the majority of her early life in Las Vegas where she attended Valley High School. Af
 Kathryn O. Scott, a pioneer in the meticulous art of textile conservation whose accomplishments included doing Napoleon's personal laundry, died on Oct. 15 at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. Her death was confirmed by Mary Ballard, the senior textile conservator at the Smithsonia
 DOCTER--Gertrude. On October 26, 2005 at age 90. Loving mother of Alan and Marcia. Graveside service today 10:30 A.M. at the Shearith Israel (Beth Olam) Cemetery, Queens, New York. DOCTER--Gertrude. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympa
 FREEDMAN--Eleanore S. On October 25, 2005. Beloved and devoted wife of Elliott for 65 years. Devoted mother of daughters Susan Prevo and Beryl Clymer; loving grandmother of Damion and Lindsey Prevo, Abbey and Benjamin Clymer; and loving mother-in-law of Bruce Prevo and William Clymer. Elean
 GARBER--Ella, MD, on October 27th at the age of 82. Beloved wife of Michael Garber, MD, to whom she was married for 60 years, devoted mother of Andrew Garber, MD, and loving grandmother of Jonathan and Julianna. Born in Lida, Poland, survivor of the Holocaust. Graduate of Jagiellonica Unive
 HAUPT--Enid A. The Board, staff, and friends of The New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of our fellow board member, friend, and esteemed benefactor, Enid A. Haupt, the greatest patron American horticulture has ever known. Her visionary and generous stewardship over man
 KRAMER--Janet, 64. Died peacefully at home in Riverdale in the presence of Fred, her husband of 40 years, her two children, Jennifer and Jordan, and her granddaughter, Claire. She is also in the hearts of her sister, Ellen, son-in-law, John, and daughter-in-law, Beth. A celebration of her l
 KRANZ--Mania. We mourn the loss of a true Aishet Chayil who taught the highest values and ethics of Judaism to her family. She was the mother of our esteemed Women's Board member, Fran Kupietzky, who is a Golden Founder and chair of our Development Committee. Sincerest condolences to Fran a
 ROGICH--Ronnie, Chestnut55, died in New York City on October 24, 2005 of complications from viral pneumonia. She was born June 10, 1950 in Ione, Washington to Ranny and Ted Rogich. She was raised and spent the majority of her early life in Las Vegas where she attended Valley High School. Af
 SAGOR--Jessica Gordon. Died peacefully at home in Long Beach, N.Y. on October 26 in her 95th year. Beloved by her children Elliot Sagor and Nancy Jaffe, their spouses Susan and Joseph & her grandchildren Andrew, Adam, Liza and Amanda. Respected community leader. She will be missed greatly b
 SCHWARTZ -- Phyllis Buch man. Of Pearl River, NY. Survived by her loving husband of 54 years Willard Schwartz, her children and spouses Marc and Susan Schwartz, Ruth and Walker Rast and Laurie and Adam Moser, and grandchildren Ben, Marlee, Alex, Mitchell and Gillian, a sister Shirley Ducatm
 DANZIGER--Marjorie. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Mrs. Marjorie Danziger, and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Eliot and family. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club David Simon, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 KRAMER--Janet, 64. Died peacefully at home in Riverdale in the presence of Fred, her husband of 40 years, her two children, Jennifer and Jordan, and her granddaughter, Claire. She is also in the hearts of her sister, Ellen, son-in-law, John, and daughter-in-law, Beth. A celebration of her l
 RICHARD--Elaine. On October 28, 2005. Beloved and devoted wife of Jack for 51 years. Loving mother to Mark (Andrea) and Susan Weiller (Ken). Adoring grandmother to Katie, Jake and Sam. Dedicated educator. Her spirit and love of life will always be remembered by everyone who knew her. Servic
 SAGOR--Jessica Gordon. Died peacefully at home in Long Beach, N.Y. on October 26 in her 95th year. Beloved by her children Elliot Sagor and Nancy Jaffe, their spouses Susan and Joseph & her grandchildren Andrew, Adam, Liza and Amanda. Respected community leader. She will be missed greatly b
 STRAHL--Phyllis. (Brous). Of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY passed away on October 27, 2005. She is survived by her loving husband of 40 years, Norman Strahl, devoted mother to her children and their spouses Matthew and DeeAnn Strahl, and Leslie and Lee Droppelman, beloved Nana to
 AALL--Sally Sample. 78, of Honolulu, died on October first in Seattle. The cause was lymphoma. Born in Chicago, she was a graduate of The Madeira School and Sarah Lawrence College. As a connoisseur and benefactor of the arts, she befriended The Morgan Library, The Princeton University Art M
 DENBERG--Riva. Wife of the late Harry J. Denberg, former President of Spotless Dry Cleaners, passed away at home on October 28, 2005 surrounded by loved ones. She leaves a daughter, granddaughter, three grandsons and four great-grandchildren. Her strength and courage is already missed.     
 HAUPT--Enid Annenberg. Of New York, NY, on October 25, 2005, daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Moses Louis Annenberg and the last surviving sibling of Walter H. Annenberg, Esther A. Simon, Polly A. Levee, Janet A. Hooker, Lita A. Hazen, Evelyn A. Hall and Harriet A. Ames. $(6$)HAUPT
 KARPEN--Marian J. President and founder of the nonprofit, NYC based WorkTalk, a career development group, died on October 22, 2005, at her home in NYC. Ms. Karpen is the former Paris Fashion Editor of Women's Wear Daily, an internationally syndicated newspaper columnist, author of ''Career 
 RAMBACH--Amy Jane. Passed away peacefully on October 26, surrounded by her friends at St. Domenic's Home. Daughter of Patricia Scharlin Taylor and Harvey W. Rambach. Sister of Wendy Moore, Janet Solomon & Peggy Rambach. Stepdaughter of Gary Taylor and Francoise Rambach. Amy always had a smi
 RUBIN--Ruth A. (nee Goldman). Beloved wife of the late Louis M. Cherished mother of Richard and of daughter-in-law Susan. Devoted grandmother of Karen and Jill. In addition to her family, Ruth's activities for National Council of Jewish Women will long be remembered. She taught us how to ag
 SHUFRO--Edna E. On October 29, 2005, in her 99th year. Beloved and adoring wife of 71 years of the late Salwyn Shufro, co-founder of Shufro, Rose & Co. Cherished mother of Edward G. Shufro and Joan S. Silverman and their spouses Marlene and Ronald. Proud grandmother of Joyce Mitchell (James
 STEWART--Eva. Passed away October 13, 2005 in New York City. Her zest for life and generous heart will be remembered forever by all that knew her. Following her wishes, no funeral was held. Those who wish to honor her memory may do so through any of her favorite charities such as The New Yo
 STRAHL--Phyllis. (Brous). Of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY passed away on October 27, 2005. She is survived by her loving husband of 40 years, Norman Strahl, devoted mother to her children and their spouses Matthew and DeeAnn Strahl, and Leslie and Lee Droppelman, beloved Nana to
 THOMAS--Martha J. SUNY Downstate Medical Center mourns the sudden passing of Martha J. Thomas, former Assistant Vice President for Community and Governmental Relations. Ms. Thomas's contributions to SUNY Downstate and to Brooklyn were legion. Her colleagues and her countless friends will mi
 ROSENFELD--Gertrude (nee Tulchinsky). Beloved mother of Ronnie Wohl and Ellen Doskow and cherished grandmother of Sara Brooke Doskow. Loving mother-in-law of Donald Wohl and Arthur Doskow. Adoring sister of Ted (Stanley) Tulchin and Norman Tulchin. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Rosenfel
 von ESTORFF -- Erdmuthe Eva (nee von Lindeiner-Wildau). 96, passed away suddenly and peacefully at home in Scarsdale, NY, on September 21. A private family graveside service was held in Cornwall - on - Hudson, NY. Predeceased by her husband of 58 years, geologist Fritz E. von Estorff, and s
 AALL--Sally Sample. 78, of Honolulu, died on October first in Seattle. The cause was lymphoma. Born in Chicago, she was a graduate of The Madeira School and Sarah Lawrence College. As a connoisseur and benefactor of the arts, she befriended The Morgan Library, The Princeton University Art M
 KURZ - Doriane. Passed away on October 29, 2005, after a long illness. Greatly beloved by family, friends and staff from over 40 years in the retail business. Her warmth and generosity were legendary. Dori, born in Vienna, and a Holocaust survivor with her brother Fred, came to the United S
 MICALLEF -- Audrey Stod dard. The family of Audrey Micallef of Fort Lee, NJ, and Ocean Bay Park, NY, announces with sorrow her passing due to cancer at Englewood Hospital on October 28. The sixth of nine children, she leaves a brother, Gerard Stoddard of Manhattan, two sisters, Patricia Bis
 NOWAK -- Annette Grace (nee Altman). Of Palm Beach, on October 29. Adored and adoring wife of the late Lawrence P. Nowak. She will be missed and remembered with great love by family and friends. Donations to Red Cross for Cancer Care.       
 RASKIN--Helen. Beloved wife of the late Barney L. Raskin. Loving mother of Randy (Sherry) and Bruce (Kathy), and grandmother of Rebecca, Sarah and Emily. Services will be held 9:45 A.M. on Tuesday, November 1, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, donat
 SALTON--Justine Augusta. Died suddenly October 28. She was 33 years old. Justine is survived by her husband, Raphael Allison, her mother, Edith Salton, her sister, Gillian Salton and her brother, William Salton. She will be terribly missed by her family as well as Shaba, Bert, Monday, Oscar
 SHUFRO--Edna E. On October 29, 2005, in her 99th year. Beloved and adoring wife of 71 years of the late Salwyn Shufro, co-founder of Shufro, Rose & Co. Cherished mother of Edward G. Shufro and Joan S. Silverman and their spouses Marlene and Ronald. Proud grandmother of Joyce Mitchell (James
