 Diane Geppi-Aikens, who coached the Loyola of Maryland women's lacrosse team to a No. 1 ranking and the semifinals of the N.C.A.A. Division I tournament this season while in a motorized wheelchair with brain cancer, died Sunday at her home in Baltimore. She was 40. For the past eigh
 BARRIZ--Susan Wexler, 49, on Sunday, June 29, 2003. She leaves behind her beloved & devoted mother, Beatrice Wexler, her sister Annette Schmell, and her niece and nephew Rachel and Joshua. Services Tuesday, July 1, 12:15, Parkside Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn. Shiva at 415 Grand S
 BARTHOLD--Denise Mary. Age 72. Of Douglaston, N.Y. on June 29, 2003, with her children at her side. Passionate gardener and community activist. Survived by her children Charles (Peggy) of Darien, CT., David (Sarah) of Brooklyn and Nancy of Douglaston, and five grandchildren. Memorial servic
 DAVID--Rose. Passed away peacefully on June 29, at age 99. Beloved wife of the late Louis S. David and mother of Stephen David. She is survived by son Simeon David and daughters-in-law Janet David & Patricia David; grandchildren Jennifer & Alex and great-granddaughter Zoe. Services Tuesday,
 EDELSON--Clair B. Beloved wife of Charles. Loving mother and best friend to her son, Matty. Devoted sister of Frances Kelland and Jack Tarshis. She will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Services Wednesday, 1 PM, at Riverside-Nassau No. Chapels, 55 No. Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. 
 HEPBURN--Katharine. With the death of Katharine Hepburn, the world has lost one of the most original actors of all time. It also has lost a woman who was as forceful off screen as she was on. Hepburn was a member of the PPFA Board of Advocates and Honorary Chair of the PPFA National Leaders
 LEVINSON--Ethel. Age 81 of Great Neck, NY. Passed away on June 23, 2003. Beloved wife of Arthur, loving mother of son David. Her sense of humor and devotion to animal welfare will not be forgotten. >>AD#       
 MAHER--Eileen M., 82, of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, New York, died on June 27, 2003, at the home of her niece in Pennsylvania with whom she resided since January. She was the last surviving member of her immediate family. She was the daughter of John J. Maher and Mary Kelly. The family, including
 MARTZ--Ethel. You were the wind beneath our wings. Loved and adored by her husband, the late Benjamin, her devoted daughter Carol (Shelly) Lieberbaum, grandchildren Suzie and Stephen, Jonny and Kimberley, Jeffrey, Jenifer and Rafael, and great-grandchildren Rachel, David, Matthew, Kyle and 
 SAYPOL--Cynthia Otis. 72, on June 28, 2003. Adored life partner of Ed Krones. Beloved mother of Cathy Saypol and Amy Tompkins, and mother-in-law of P. F. Bentley and Richard Tompkins. Loving friend of Ed's children, Leah Becker and Mark Krones. Wonderful ''Grammie'' to Jimmy Tompkins and Le
 WALTUCH--Margot R. on June 29, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Max. Devoted mother of Michael. Lifelong proponent and advocate of the principles and practices of Maria Montessori. Services Wednesday 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. WALTUCH--Margot. Cong
 WEILGUS--Nettie. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a beloved and widely respected member of the Jewish community, wife of the late David Weilgus, of blessed memory. Heartfelt condolences are extended to: her children, generous supporter and member of the Stern Coll
 BERGMAN--Ruth. 87, died peacefully at home on June 30. Beloved wife of the late Rudolph, loving mother of Doris and Andrew. Devoted mother-in-law of Louise. Adoring grandmother of Jake and Teddy. Also survived by her cherished sister Freya Maier, brother Erich Valfer and Dr. Bruno and Marga
 COHEN -- Hermaine Kurtz, age 82, of Edina, formerly of New York City, died June 28, 2003. Preceded in death by parents, Irwin and Josephine (Herzbrun) Kurtz; husband, New York State Supreme Court Justice, Charles H. Cohen; sisters, Babette Kurtz and Eve Kurtz Rackow. Survived by sons, Jonat
 GUEDALIA -- Selma. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its distinguished member, Mrs. Rose Edinger. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood GUEDALIA--Selma. T
 HEPBURN--Katharine. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The Actors' Fund of America remember Miss Katharine Hepburn fondly and thank her for a lifetime of dedicated support. Tom Dillon, President Joseph Benincasa, Exec. Dir. The Actors' Fund of America >>AD#       
 KENNEY--Katherine G. on June 29. Beloved daughter of the late John E. Kenney and the late Carolina Kenney. She is survived by her aunt Virginia Ross Green and two cousins, Stephen Ross Green and Ann Pangels. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank 
 PERRY -- Virginia Gregory, wife of the late Albert L. Perry, died on Sunday, June 29th. Born in East Orange, NJ on October 12, 1911, she was active in civic affairs in Wilton. CT. She was a member of the Wilton Garden Club and the Wilton Congregational Church for over 50 years. A member of 
 TAHL--Marilyn. The Propp Family notes with profound sorrow the passing of Marilyn Tahl, beloved mother of our dear friend Joseph Tahl. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Mr. Elliot Tahl and the members of his family. Her memory will serve as a blessing for generations to come. T
 Khieu Ponnary, the quiet Cambodian intellectual who was the first wife of the Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot and a prominent member of the movement in its early days, died on Tuesday in Cambodia. She was 83. A nephew, Ieng Vuth, said she died in the northwestern city of Pailin. 
 COHEN -- Hermaine Kurtz, age 82, of Edina, formerly of New York City, died June 28, 2003. Preceded in death by parents, Irwin and Josephine (Herzbrun) Kurtz; husband, New York State Supreme Court Justice, Charles H. Cohen; sisters, Babette Kurtz and Eve Kurtz Rackow. Survived by sons, Jonat
 FRIES--Cynthia M. on July 1, 2003 at Franciscan Oaks, Denville, New Jersey. Longtime resident of Montclair, NJ. Daughter of Colonel and Mrs. Claude S. Fries. Col. Fries was a veteran of the Spanish American War and WW I. She is survived and missed by her sister-in-law and three nephews and 
 KENNEY--Katherine G. on June 29. Beloved daughter of the late John E. Kenney and the late Carolina Kenney. She is survived by her aunt Virginia Ross Green and two cousins, Stephen Ross Green and Ann Pangels. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank 
 SIMON--Frances. The Board of Directors and members of Bocaire Country Club Inc. record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Frances Simon, on Wednesday, July 2, 2003. We extend condolences to all of her family. Services will be held Friday, July 4th, 2003 at 10 A.M. at River
 STOVALL--Inger Bagger. On July 1, 2003, at 10:30 PM, in Memorial Sloan - Kettering Hospital, Inger Bagger Stovall died peacefully surrounded by family members. She had been suffering from lung cancer, first diagnosed on April 8, 2003, according to her adoring husband of some 52 years, Rober
 HERSCHAFT--Jean. Concern for Helping Animals in Israel (CHAI) deeply mourns the passing of Jean Herschaft, longtime journalist for the Jewish Post and Opinion, dedicated activist for animals, locally and globally, and valued friend of CHAI. We extend condolences to her family. She will be g
 KLEIN -- Janey Holzman. Dearest wife of Louis. Beloved mother of Carla Klein Moriarty and Alexandra Klein. Sister of Jeffrey D. Holzman. Grandmother of Ella Jane Moriarty. Stepsister of Peggy Kahn and Jeffrey Semel. A memorial service will be held at the Greenwich Reform Synagogue, 257 Stan
 KUPFER -- Adele, beloved wife of Dr. Sherman Kupfer, passed away on July 2, 2003. Besides her husband of 52 years she is survived by her three children, Marcia, Joel and Kenneth Kupfer, and six grandchildren. Funeral services will be held at the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam 
 REESE -- Frances Stevens. The Board and Staff of Scenic Hudson, Inc. mourn the loss of our indomitable Founder, Frances S. Reese. In founding Scenic Hudson 40 years ago to block construction of a power plant atop Storm King Mountain, Franny launched the modern environmental movement. In the
 SAMUELS--Gertrude. First and for many years the only staff writer for The Times Sunday Magazine, award winning journalist, best-selling novelist (Run, Shelly, Run!), biographer (of David Ben-Gurion), playwright and writer-photographer, on July 3, at the age of 93. Mourned with love and admi
 Gertrude Samuels, a writer and photographer whose 50-year career took her from the displaced-persons camps of postwar Europe to the blight of drug addiction in America's cities, died Wednesday at her home on the Upper West Side. She was 93. Beginning in the wartime 1940's, she worke
 FLEMER--Leslie (nee Fulton). Of Naples, Florida and Waitsfield, Vermont died peacefully in Naples on June 24, 2003 at age 74. Born January 18, 1929 in Chicago, the daughter of the late Darrow Bruce Fulton and the late Anna Wrenn Fulton Williams. She attended the Latin School of Chicago and 
 KLEIN -- Janey Holzman. Dearest wife of Louis. Beloved mother of Carla Klein Moriarty and Alexandra Klein. Sister of Jeffrey D. Holzman. Grandmother of Ella Jane Moriarty. Stepsister of Peggy Kahn and Jeffrey Semel. A memorial service will be held at the Greenwich Reform Synagogue, 257 Stan
 OELBAUM -- Rose Pomer ance. On July 3rd at age 101. Beloved wife of the late, Albert I. Oelbaum. Loved and loving mother of Helen Glick. Devoted mother-in-law to Howard Glick. Loving grandmother to the late Karol Glick and Michael and Andrea Glick, along with their spouses Sharon Glick and 
 REESE -- Frances S. The Trustees of The House of the Redeemer express their great sorrow upon the death of their beloved president, Frances S. Reese. Her gracious and dedicated leadership has been an inspiration to this institution. A. Walker Bingham, Secretary of the Board >>AD#       
 ALLAN-Rosalind (nee Metcalfe), June 26, in NYC. Born in Providence, RI, Rosalind made her career in the fashion industry & in that capacity lived in Manhattan, Paris, and Florence, Italy. An innovator, entrepreneur, and professional, she inspired many who were fortunate enough to know her. 
 BURGIE - Page Elizabeth Turner Burgie. Died on June 28, 2003, after a long illness. She was born May 31, 1930, in Richmond, Virginia. She earned a B.A. in English and a Master of Theology at Virginia Union University. In New York, she was the Head Counselor of Girls and Camp Director for th
 CARTER-Margaret Mary Ryan. 79, Irvington, NY, died peacefully July 1, 2003. Beloved wife of Samuel P.W. Carter, also surviving is her stepson Paul Anderson Carter, brother William F. Ryan, numerous nieces and nephews. Funeral Mass 10 AM Tuesday, July 8, Immaculate Conception Church, Irvingt
 GANZ-Bea. The officers and employees of Webster Plumbing Supply mourn the passing of our Miss Bea. Intelligent. Dedicated. Guide and friend to three generations. As she often described herself, ''One Tough Old Broad.'' Your spirit lives on.       
 HALABY-Najeeb E. On behalf of the U.S. Committee for United World Colleges, we extend our condolences and deepest sympathy to our International President, H. M. Queen Noor of Jordan on the death of her father, Najeeb Halaby. Prince Pavlos of Greece, Chairman Phyllis R. Farley, Chairman Emer
 KLEIN - Janey Holzman. Dearest wife of Louis. Beloved mother of Carla Klein Moriarty and Alexandra Klein. Sister of Jeffrey D. Holzman. Grandmother of Ella Jane Moriarty. Stepsister of Peggy Kahn and Jeffrey Semel. A memorial service will be held at the Greenwich Reform Synagogue, 257 Stanw
 RAHMAN-Shaista. 72 on July 1, 2003. Beloved wife of Asad ur Rahman. Mother of Zeyba, Azza and Aziz. Mother-in-law of Terrance Grace. Warm friend to the many who benefited from her wise and generous advice, her knowledgeable and witty conversation, sustained with her wonderful charm even in 
 REESE - Frances Stevens. Age 85, of Hughsonville, NY, died July 2, 2003. She was the wife of the late Willis Livingston Mesier Reese, mother of Frances, John, George, Alexander and the late William. Grandmother of Alessandro Olivieri, Francesca Olivieri, Victoria Reese, Augusta Donohue, Isa
 TAHL-Marilyn Hamburger. Loving wife of Elliot, devoted mother of Nina Warfield and Joseph Tahl, wonderful daughter of Hilda and Myer Hamburger, nurturing and adoring grandmother of Erica and Jamie Warfield. She treated all people with kindness, compassion, goodness, dignity and respect. Mar
 VAMOS-Sadie Z. Of Montclair, New Jersey, died of Alzheimer's disease on July 3, 2003. Wife of the late Leonard Ziegler and the late Leslie Vamos. Loving mother of Laura Z. Boss and Alan S. Ziegler. Grandmother of L. Barry Boss (Cathy), Jeffrey Boss (Valerie) and Alona Ayer-Ziegler (Jason Sm
 WOLFMAN-Debby (nee Rubin). 73, of Short Hills, NJ. Beloved wife of Herman for 55 years. Cherished mother of Michelle (Shoo-Shoo) Bodow and Elysse. Adored grandmother of Brandon and Chelsea. Sister of Judith Steloff and Eugene Rubin. Dear mother-in-law of Stuart Bodow. She lived her life wit
 Joan Lowery Nixon, a prolific, award-winning author of mysteries for children and young adults, died on Saturday in Houston. She was 76 and lived in Houston. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, The Houston Chronicle reported. Mrs. Nixon wrote more than 140 book
 BENDER--Edna. On July 4, 2003, in Boca Raton, born on May 12, 1915. Devoted wife of the late Harry Bender; beloved mother of Joel C. Bender and Susan L. Bender and of the late Eugene B. Bender; much loved sister of Florence Diamond and Rose Kainste, who survive her; grandmother of Andrew, G
 COVEN--Estelle. Of Great Neck, NY, on July 5, 2003. Loving wife of the late Harold A. Coven. Loving and beloved mother of four daughters, Eileen, Barbara, Phyllis and Laurie. Devoted grandmother of Lorraine VanKirk, Hannah Coven-Brody, Matthew, Jason and Danielle Lemonis. Adored mother-in-l
 MILLARD--Esther P., 81, of Greenwich, CT, died Wednesday, July 2, at her home. She died of complications arising from a recently diagnosed Myelo Dysplastic Syndrome condition according to her family. Born May 2, 1922 in Quebec City, Quebec, Canada, she was the daughter of Dr. Albert Paquet 
 REESE--Frances S. The New York Altar Guild note with sorrow the death of their Secretary and Past President, Franny Reese. For many years she was the soul of this organization and her spirit and guidance will be sorely missed. Mai D. Harper, President >>AD#       
 ROTH--Rhoda. At the age of 73. Died on July 5, 2003. A resident of New Rochelle for many years, Mrs. Roth was born in Brooklyn. Retired Associate General Counsel at Met Life Insurance Company. A professor of law at Fordham Law School. Mrs. Roth was a longtime supporter of the New Rochelle P
 SANDVOSS--Sheila Van Alstyne. 68 of Kennebunk, ME, died peacefully, July 4 at her home. She leaves behind a daughter Dana Sandvoss James and her husband William James of Jefferson, MA, two sons Mark Van Alstyne of New York City, and Christopher and his wife Patricia Van Alstyne of Duxbury, 
 GARSON -- Patricia Grimes (Bunny), 80, of New York, NY and Deal, NJ, passed away peacefully at home in NY on July 6th. Born and raised in New York, she was married lovingly to Arthur Garson for 51 years. She was a beautiful, dignified and caring woman. Among her charitable activities were h
 JEDWABNIK--Lydia (nee Baruchson). Died July 6, 2003 at home in New York City at age 95. Widow of the late David Jedwabnik, M.D. She was born on September 8, 1907 in Odessa, Russia and lived first in Moscow and later in Vilna, Poland, where she was married. In September 1939, she came to Ame
 REDDY--Alice, (nee FieldMcNally) of Chappaqua, NY, died peacefully at home July 5, 2003. Survived by her beloved husband William H., children, Marcus F., Christian St. C., and Hillary M., her sisters Helen F. Richards and Mary F. Kirby and four grandchildren. Resting Wednesday 6-9 PM at Bee
 VAIL--Priscilla L., an educator active in the fields of learning disabilities, dyslexia and the education of the gifted, died July 6, 2003 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital at the age of 71. Death was due to cancer. Priscilla Luke Vail was born in New York City to Mr. and Mrs. David L. L
 Frances Stevens Reese, a founder and chairwoman emeritus of the environmental group Scenic Hudson and a veteran of the fight to keep a power plant from being built on Storm King Mountain, died last Wednesday in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 85 and lived in Hughsonville, a village in Dutchess Count
 FERNANDEZ--Isabel, on July 6, 2003, passed away after a brief illness. She is survived by her brothers, Joseph and Henry, and many nieces and nephews and loving friends. Reposing at the KRTIL Funeral Home in New York City, 212-744-3084, Thursday 47pm. Mass of Christian Burial Friday, 10am a
 GARSON -- Patricia Grimes (Bunny), 80, of New York, NY and Deal, NJ, passed away peacefully at home in NY on July 6th. Born and raised in New York, she was married lovingly to Arthur Garson for 51 years. She was a beautiful, dignified and caring woman. Among her charitable activities were h
 GERSTEN--Anna, age 105. Beloved wife of the late Sam Gersten. Cherished, loving mother of Gerald (Roz) and the late Lila Greene. Adored, wonderful grandmother to five and loving great-grandmother to ten. Helped manyloved by all. She will be sadly missed. Services Wednesday, 12PM, Riverside 
 GOLDBLATT -- Mildred, on July 7, 2003. Beloved wife of the late William. Adored mother of Larry and David. Loving grandmother of Meredith, Lindsay, Westley and James. Her generosity and giving of herself before others will be deeply missed. Service Wednesday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 7
 JEFFORDS -- Kathleen. On July 8, 2003, beloved wife of the late Walter Jeffords, devoted mother of George, John, and Sally. Cherished grandmother of Sam, Gabriella, Charlotte, Julian and Jofka. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 MATSCHKE--Evelyn of N.Y., died peacefully on July 7th, 2003. Survived by her children William T. Matschke of N.Y., Albert R. Matschke of N.Y., and Susan L. Propst of Titusville, FL., sister Hazel Girolamo, brother George Koch and five grandchildren. Raised in the Bronx, she was married to t
 SAPERSTEIN--Leah. Temple Beth Am, Merrick, mourns the death of the wife of our beloved Rabbi Emeritus, Sanford E. Saperstein. Rebbitzin for 27 years. Burial from Temple Beth Israel, Longboat Key, FL. Tuesday PM She will be sorely missed. >>AD#       
 VAIL--Priscilla L., an educator active in the fields of learning disabilities, dyslexia and the education of the gifted, died July 6, 2003 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital at the age of 71. Death was due to cancer. Priscilla Luke Vail was born in New York City to Mr. and Mrs. David L. L
 Kathleen Raine, a mystically inclined British poet and a scholar of Yeats and Blake, died on Sunday in London. She was 95. Less known in the United States than in Europe, where she was regarded as a grande dame of European letters, she published several books of poetry in America in
 GARSON--Bunny. The staff and trustees of the Community Service Society and the Friends of RSVP mourn the loss of a great friend, who along with her husband, Arthur, provided tremendous leadership and support in the creation of the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program. Our deepest sympathy g
 JEFFORDS -- Kathleen. On July 8, 2003, beloved wife of the late Walter Jeffords, devoted mother of George, John, and Sally. Cherished grandmother of Sam, Gabriella, Charlotte, Julian and Jofka. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 KAPLAN--Muriel. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our member Muriel Kaplan. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her beloved daughter and son-in-law, Rae and Dr. Luis Reyes, her grandson, Justin, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D., Senior Rabbi Nancy So
 KIRSTEN--Rose. Died on July 8, 2003 at age 95 in Florida. Beloved wife of the late George. Loving mother of Bob Kirsten (Helene) and Linda Spitzer (Jerry). Proud grandmother of Jeffrey Spitzer (Arlene), Rick Spitzer, David Kirsten (Janet), Bruce Kirsten and Michael Kirsten. Greatgrandmother
 LADD--Anne Murray. June 24, 2003. A consultant with Price Waterhouse Coopers, Anne was a 1998 honors graduate of Wellesley College. A native San Franciscan, born December 12, 1975. Anne lived her life fully, with energy, passion and thought. Her loving and compassionate spirit will be with 
 LEWIS--Helen Prusslin. Age 85, on July 7, 2003 in Brooklyn, New York. Spirited pianist, chamber musician, and teacher. Beloved mother of Robert, sister of Leonore Siegel and Herbert Prusslin, grandmother of Jordan. Adored wife of the late Prof. Willard Lewis of New York University. A star t
 MARKWITZ--Adele, a prominent Audiologist/Speech Language Pathologist of great professional acclaim, died on July 7. A founding member of the New York City Speech-Language-Hearing Association, a charter member of the New York State Speech - Language Hearing Association and a member of the Am
 MERRIMAN -- Hanne Mar grethe. On July 4, 2003 at Sibley Memorial Hospital. She is survived by her husband, Richard Mathus Merriman, her mother, a sister, two brothers and a step-daughter. A memorial service will be held at the Metropolitan Memorial United Methodist Church, 3401 Nebraska Ave
 SHEN--Carol. The American Fellows and Staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art mourn the passing of our dear friend Carol Shen. Carol possessed an extraordinary degree of elegance, wisdom and grace that will be sorely missed by all of us. Our deepest condolences go out to her husband, Te
 SHORT--Mary Helen, 90, whose death occurred July 7, 2003 at the St. Vincent Medical Center, NYC. Born September 1, 1912 in Montague, MA. Retired employee of the Brooklyn Public Library and IBM Corporation in NY. Member of the American Library Association and the NY Library Club, she is surv
 STAPLETON--Rikki. Died at her home in New York July 4. Memorial Mass for friends and family at St. John the Martyr Church, 250 E. 72 St at 1 PM, Thursday, July 17. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Angel's Gate Hospice, 18 Josephine Lane, Fort Salonga, N.Y. 11768. STAPLET
 VAIL--Priscilla L., an educator active in the fields of learning disabilities, dyslexia and the education of the gifted, died July 6, 2003 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital at the age of 71. Death was due to cancer. Priscilla Luke Vail was born in New York City to Mr. and Mrs. David L. L
 BRINKERHOFF--Betty W. On July 7th, 2003 of Douglaston, NY. Devoted wife of the late William D. Brinkerhoff, beloved mother of Miles Brinkerhoff and loving aunt of Cindy Knox Baertschi. Mrs Brinkerhoff was born in Cleveland, OH, attended William and Mary College. She was a freelance editor f
 FINKEL--Beverly. Wife of the late Arthur Finkel. Cherished mother of Barbara and Lynn. Loving grandmother of Maggie, Laura, and Lee. Her many friends remember her wit, style and humor. One of a kind. Contributions in her memory may be made to Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County, 4601 Com
 HARA--Mary. Of Englewood, NJ. Dear sister of S.F. Blattspieler. Adored aunt of Terri and Steven. For information ''Wien & Wien'', 800-322-0533. HARA--Mary, theatre actress, died July 6. NJ. Born Mary Lou Blattspieler in 1927, she is survived by a brother, several nieces and nephews 
 NEEL--Denise M. (nee Barney). Of Yonkers, NY and formerly of Greenwich Village, NYC, on July 9, 2003. Graduate of New York University and student at FIT. Beloved wife and best friend of Alex Neel; loving sister of Peter Barney and Joseph Bolduc; dear aunt of Amanda and Petey. Memorial Servi
 VAIL--Priscilla L., an educator active in the fields of learning disabilities, dyslexia and the education of the gifted, died July 6, 2003 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital at the age of 71. Death was due to cancer. Priscilla Luke Vail was born in New York City to Mr. and Mrs. David L. L
 Dorothy Miller, one of the first curators hired by the Museum of Modern Art, in 1934, and the woman responsible for pioneering exhibitions of new American artists that helped propel generations of painters like Pollock, Rothko, Frank Stella and Jasper Johns onto the international scene, die
 Josephine Jacobsen, a poet, short-story writer and critic who held the post that later became that of national poet laureate, died on Wednesday in Cockeysville, Md. She was 94 and had lived in Maryland most of her life. She was consultant in poetry to the Library of Congress from 19
 MILLER--Dorothy C. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and the Members of its International Council mourn the loss of their beloved and gentle colleague and friend, Dorothy Miller who, together with Alfred H. Barr, Jr., the Museum's founding Director, built the Museum's colle
 UNGAR--Manya, of Scotch Plains, NJ, former President of the National PTA. Wife of H.F. ''Skip'' Ungar. Mother of Paul and Michael. A memorial service will be held at Memorial Funeral Home, 155 South Ave, Fanwood, NJ, on Monday, July 14, at 2 PM. Contributions may be made to the American Can
 BALDWIN--Patricia S. Died July 4 at age 71 in New York City. She leaves her sons Scott and Brad, brother Donald (Suzanne), daughter-inlaw Jude and grandchildren Christopher, Patrick, Hillary, Joseph and Sara--all of whom she loved dearly. Her many friends whose lives were enhanced by knowin
 BASSETT -- Deborah (nee O'Brien), 47, died on Sunday, July 6th, 2003, at her home in NYC. Deborah succumbed to complications from several surgeries and a failure to thrive, having had six hospitalizations in the past year. Deborah was a prominent NY antiques dealer with a national following
 KELTY--May W. (nee Wharton), on July 6, 2003. Devoted wife of the late James J. Kelty. Survived by her son, George Egner, and daughterin-law, Ruth, grandsons, David and Carl. Reposing at the Conway Funeral Home, Northern Blvd. at 83rd St., Jackson Heights, on Sunday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of
 KIRSTEN--Rose. The Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty extends our deepest condolences to Linda Spitzer on the loss of her beloved mother. May the Spitzer Family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Joseph C. Shenker, President Merryl H. Tisch, Chairman William E. Rapfo
 MARKWITZ -- Adele. Her talent, skill, dedication and boundless love over more than twenty-five years gave our children the world of speech and the gift of self confidence. She did the same for countless others. She became a member of our family, our guardian angel, and is forever in the wor
 MILLER--Dorothy C. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and the Members of its International Council mourn the loss of their beloved and gentle colleague and friend, Dorothy Miller who, together with Alfred H. Barr, Jr., the Museum's founding Director, built the Museum's colle
 NEEL--Denise M. (nee Barney). Of Yonkers, NY and formerly of Greenwich Village, NYC, on July 9, 2003. Graduate of New York University and student at FIT. Beloved wife and best friend of Alex Neel; loving sister of Peter Barney and Joseph Bolduc; dear aunt of Amanda and Petey. Memorial Servi
 ROGERS -- Beatrice Alva. Born October 17, 1907. Died July 8, 2003. Beloved wife of Sydney (deceased), cherished mother of Teri Lehmann (Jack) and Michael Rogers (Gail). Beloved grandmother of Bruce (Irene), David (Dawn), Mark (Kerri), Amy (Richard), Lisa (Mark) and Jessica. Adored great gra
 ROTHKOPF--Carol. Our dear sister and aunt passed away too young, July 11th, 2003, in Florida. She will always be in our hearts. Marilyn and Bernard, Glenda and Wendy, Bill and Marc >>AD#       
 WEISS--Geraldine. On July 9, 2003. Friends of Gerry's mourn her passing. She was a compassionate, devoted friend with a great zest for life and will be sorely missed by all who knew and loved her. Services pending. >>AD#       
 Rollie McKenna, a photographer best known for her portraits of Dylan Thomas and other lions of English literature, died on June 14 in Northampton, Mass. She was 84 and had formerly lived in Stonington, Conn. Rollie McKenna -- her full name was Rosalie Thorne McKenna -- found her cal
 Isabelle d'Orléans et Bragance, Countess of Paris, who was married to a pretender to the throne of France, died on July 5 in Paris. She was 93. The countess was the widow of Henri, Count of Paris, whom many royalists wanted to become King Henri VI of France. He died in 1999, and th
 AVALLONE--Phyllis Jewell. Died peacefully in her home on Saturday, July 12, 2003. She was a long time resident of the Crestwood section of Yonkers, NY. Born in Manhattan in 1929, Phyllis was raised in New Rochelle, NY. She is survived by her devoted husband Mario Avallone, children, Mark, M
 GADOL--Dr. Karen. Beloved wife of Alan. Devoted mother of Hayley. Loving daughter of Ralph and Arlene Goffner. Devoted sister of Lori Goffner Michelson and Gary Goffner. Beloved aunt and friend, devoted physician. We will love you always. Services today 10 AM. Boulevard Riverside Chapels, 1
 NAPARSTEK -- Bella. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our esteemed benefactor, Dr. Simon Naparstek. To Simon, Maguy and to the entire family, our heartfelt sympathy. Her memory will always be a source of blessing and inspiration. Rabbi Marc Schneier Michael B
 OXMAN -- Kathryn Grear. Died peacefully at her home in Maplewood, NJ, on July 11, 2003, at the age of 89. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Jacob H. Oxman. Devoted mother of David C. Oxman of Greenwich, CT, Susan Braden Rhetts of Alexandria, VA, Stephan A. Oxman of Short Hills, NJ, and John Crai
 SCHULMAN--Ann. Devoted wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She lived a long and good life. Marcia and Henry Saltzman >>AD#       
 BERK--Shirley. On July 11, 2003 with beauty, dignity and elegance. Survived by husband Herman, daughters Tesa and Romy, sons-in-law Jason and David. She will be missed greatly and will always be in our hearts. Donations may be made in Shirley's name to the American Cancer Society, 800-227-2
 MARKWITZ--Adele. Audiologist, Speech Pathologist par excellence, wonderful supportive friend, family many years guardian angel who showed best ways to cope, live and exist in life as we might never have been able without her invaluable guidance. Will always be remembered, spirit and soul so
 SHIN -- Myung - hee Monica Age 45 of Seattle, WA, formerly of Seagirt, NJ, passed away on July 13, 2003, after a long illness with dignity and elegance at her home in Shoreline, WA. Beloved wife of 19 years to Dong Ho Shin of Seoul, Korea. Loving mother of Jennifer, 18, and Spencer, 11. Lov
 SIEGEL--Edith Davis. Died July 13, 2003 at 86. Her children, grandchildren, brother and friends mourn her passing. Service at Temple Israel, 112 East 75 St, NY NY on Thursday July 17 at 10AM. Interment to follow in Kingston NY. In lieu of flowers, donations can be sent to Crystal Run Villag
 SOTTOSANTI--Marie N. (nee Glorioso), of Pt. Washington, NY, on July 13, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Michael Sottosanti. Loving mother of Perry Giaccone and her husband Joseph R. of Manhasset, NY, Maria Balletta of Pt. Washington, NY, Vilma Seminara of Lititz, PA, and Vincent Sottosanti o
 BLOOM--Sylvia. We mourn the passing of the Honorable Sylvia Bloom, former CUNY trustee (1981 to 1994) and member of the CUNY Construction Fund. Her enduring dedication to and love for the City University's student body will be long remembered. Our deepest sympathies are extended to her belo
 KLEIN--Helen (nee Kramer). In Wayland, Massachusetts. Formerly of NY. Beloved wife of the late Ruben Klein. Devoted mother of Stephen Klein of Yardley, PA., and Joan Cohen of Newton, MA. Sister of the late Oscar Kramer. Cherished grandmother of Nicole and Alexander Klein and Seth & Heidi Co
 LIVINGSTON--Carole Rose. Devoted teacher, scholar, song writer, poet, political activist. Her Friends >>AD#       
 McCABE--Ruth. 92, on July 12, 2003, at the Nathaniel Witherell in Greenwich, Ct. Wife of the late Charles Bernard McCabe, Jr., former President and Publisher of the NY Daily Mirror. Born in Kielce, Poland. Mrs. McCabe emigrated to the U.S. with her family when she was four years old, and wa
 SIEGEL--Edith Davis. Died July 13, 2003 at 86. Her children, grandchildren, brother and friends mourn her passing. Service at Temple Israel, 112 East 75 St, NY NY on Thursday July 17 at 10AM. Interment to follow in Kingston NY. In lieu of flowers, donations can be sent to Crystal Run Villag
 TOOMB--Mary C., ''Mae'', of Centerville, OH, passed away Sunday, July 13, 2003, at Heartland of Centerville. She is survived by her children, Kevin Toomb of Charlotte, NC, Kathleen Oakes (Ray) of Kettering, OH, Martin Toomb (Peggy) of Rockaway, NJ, Robert Toomb (Laura) of Mason, OH, a siste
 WARMBOLD--Grace, the former Grace Staub of Miami, Florida left this world to be with the Lord on July 11, 2003 after a long battle with cancer. She was sixty-five years old. Grace Warmbold was born and raised in New York City and educated in Florida. She is a graduate of the University of M
 Celia Cruz, the Cuban singer who became the queen of Latin music, died yesterday at her home in Fort Lee, N.J. She was 77. The cause was complications after surgery for a brain tumor, said a spokeswoman, Blanca Lasalle. Onstage, Ms. Cruz was a petite woman who wore tight, gl
 Leela Chitnis, an actress whose half-century-long 40-film career in India progressed from romantic roles to the motherly ones for which she is best remembered, died on Monday at a hospital in Danbury, Conn. She was 93. She had been living in Connecticut for many years to be near her family.
 KERN--Beatrice. July 28, 1912-July 9, 2003. She is survived by her husband, Murray Kern; her son, Iver Kern; her daughter, Carolyn Kerlin; and her grandsons Aaron Kerlin and Jess Kerlin, and granddaughter Julie Kerlin. She was the daughter of Sarah and Isador Blum and the sister of Daniel B
 McHUGH--Joan Anne, RN, MS, of Roslyn Heights, NY suddenly on July 14, 2003. Cherished daughter of William and Joan. Loving sister of William Jr. and Janet, Michael, Margaret and Stephen and Matthew and Marianne. Adored aunt of Diana, Kaitlyn and William McHugh, III and Stephen Jr., Nicholas
 STEIN--Nettie. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President >>AD#       
 Carol Shields, the Pulitzer Prize-winning Canadian novelist who captured and illuminated the ordinariness of life -- ''domesticity, the shaggy beast that eats up 50 percent of our lives,'' as she put it -- died on Wednesday in Victoria, British Columbia. She was 68. The cause was co
 Elisabeth Welch, an expatriate cabaret singer who mixed elegant phrasing and emotive power to craft extraordinary interpretations of the songs of America's Jazz Age and Britain's musical stage, died on Tuesday at a nursing home outside London. She was 99. Like Josephine Baker and Ma
 Lucille Roberts, a businesswoman whose ambition to create ''the McDonald's of health clubs'' inspired a chain of bargain-basement gyms for women, died yesterday at New York University Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. She was 59. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Bob. She l
 McHUGH--Joan. The Board and Staff of Aging in America and Morningside House Nursing Home extend their condolences to the family of Joan McHugh and her colleagues at Loeb and Troper. Her untimely and tragic passing has made our world poorer, yet we are stronger for having known her. It is ou
 MILLER--Dorothy C. The family of Dorothy C. Miller wishes to express heartfelt thanks to the many friends and colleagues of Dorothy who have sent messages of love and sympathy. In lieu of flowers, tax deductible contributions may be made in her memory to the New York Public Library, an inst
 MILLER--Dorothy C. The family of Dorothy C. Miller wishes to express heartfelt thanks to the many friends and colleagues of Dorothy who have sent messages of love and sympathy. In lieu of flowers, tax deductible contributions may be made in her memory to the New York Public Library, an inst
 SHAPIRO--Helen Lewin, age 96, passed away peacefully July 17. Widow of Herman Shapiro. Cherished cousin of the Weinstein, Baron and Baskin families. She was an honored and esteemed teacher at Music and Art High School from its inception to her retirement. Memorial service to be announced. F
 TAUBMAN--Sylvia. Beloved grandmother, mother, wife, sister and friend to all she knew, passed away at her home on Thursday, July 17. Her dedication to family, support for her friends, unflagging energy and total selflessness influenced all who were fortunate to know her. A proud sweet woman
 Rosalyn Tureck, a pianist and harpsichordist who played an important part in the revival of interest in the music of Johann Sebastian Bach, and who devoted more than six decades to performing, researching, teaching and writing about his works, died on Thursday at her home in Riverdale, the 
 Anne Rogovin, a teacher of mentally handicapped children who wrote manuals on child rearing with admonitions like ''Turn off the TV!'' died on July 7 at her home in Buffalo. She was 84. The cause was brain cancer, her family said. Mrs. Rogovin's years as a teacher made her a
 BAKST--Nancy Emory. Venture House mourns the loss of our longtime friend and Board Member. Nancy's dedication to helping people with mental illness was inspiring to us all. Our community will miss her, but always remember her fondly. >>AD#       
 BRENNAN--Sister Mary Alethea. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, Convent of Mary the Queen, died Friday, July 18, 2003. She is survived by five nieces, two nephews and their families. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark Street, Yonkers, NY, on Sunday, 1-8 PM. Funeral M
 DAVIS--June (born September 7, 1905), of Sarasota, FL, on July 13, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Davis and loving mother of Patricia Gondelman and the late Robert Davis. Cherished grandmother of Mark, Kyle, Joel, Alicia, Bradford, Hillary and Lauren, and great-grandmother of 14. A '
 GHERARDI -- Lilia Tucker man. 96, died on July 4, 2003 Walpole, MA. She leaves two daughters, Lilia G. Nash of Providence, RI and Florence G. King of Washington, DC, seven grandchildren, five great-grandchildren, two step great-grandchildren. >>AD#       
 GLASSMAN--Trudy. Age 83, on July 19, 2003. Preceded in death by husband Morty, survived by son Ray and daughter Harriet, grandchildren Maya, Randy, Benjamin and Rebecca. Trudy died peacefully at Cabrini Hospice in New York City. Thank you to all of Trudy's friends and relatives who have lov
 KARYO--Louise Lea. In Boca Raton, Florida. Formerly of Cedarhurst and Hewlett, NY. Beloved wife of the late Isaac Andre Karyo. Loving mother of Catherine and Stephen Shiff of Jericho, NY, Armand and Rita Karyo of Roslyn, NY, Richard & Arlene Karyo of Boca Raton, FL, Michel & Lois Karyo of B
 MARANTZ -- Joan Lakin, Ph.D. The members of the Greater New York Chapter of Imago Relationship Therapists mourn the passing of Joan Lakin Marantz, Ph.D, our Chapter President, colleague, friend and mentor. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her husband Dr. Robert Marantz, her daughter Lisa
 MICHLEWITZ--Sally. Age 87. Born near Warsaw, Poland. Survived the attempted Nazi obliteration of justice and Jewish culture. She fulfilled the American dream with a life characterized by a love of learning, beauty, diversity and humanity. She intensely grieved the violent death in 1975 of h
 MILLER--Dorothy C. The family of Dorothy C. Miller wishes to express heartfelt thanks to the many friends and colleagues of Dorothy who have sent messages of love and sympathy. In lieu of flowers, tax deductible contributions may be made in her memory to the New York Public Library, an inst
 RINDLAUB--Edythe V. Of Saddle River, NJ, died on July 12, 2003, two days short of her 92nd birthday. A former teacher, she was the widow of John W. ''Will'' Rindlaub; mother of Diane, John and Neil; the aunt of Elaine and Robert; grandmother of seven; and great-grandmother of one. She was v
 ROBERTS--Lucille. Our love and deepest sympathy to Bob, Kevin, Kirk and Samantha. We will sincerely miss our very dear friend. Lucille was an extraordinary woman, a trailblazer in her field and a very true friend. Lucille was very talented and gifted in many areas--and a brilliant business 
 SHAPIRO--Helen Lewin, age 96, passed away peacefully July 17. Widow of Herman Shapiro. Cherished cousin of the Weinstein, Baron and Baskin families. She was an honored and esteemed teacher at Music and Art High School from its inception to her retirement. Memorial service to be announced. F
 SUTTON--Bertie Bara, on July 12th, 2003. So long everyone. We'll meet again some other day. SUTTON--Bertie Bara. Bertie lived a full and rich life. She was a very special friend to many people. Bertie had a close relationship with each one of them, and we will all miss her. In lieu 
 ZABLO--Diana. On July 18, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. Loving mother of Randy, the late David and Helene. Dear sister of Gloria. She will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday, 9:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave. >>AD#       
 Barbara B. Lazarus, an educational anthropologist who studied barriers to women entering science and engineering and created programs to overcome them, died last Tuesday in Pittsburgh. She was 57. The cause was cancer, her husband, Marvin Sirbu, said. Dr. Lazarus, who was as
 FRIEND--Elizabeth Pierson. Age 69, on July 18, 2003, at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Devoted wife, mother, and volunteer. Exhibited and prize-winning painter in water colors, acrylics, and oils. Survived by her loving husband Theodore; brother John; sons Tad and Pier; dau
 ROBERTS -- Lucille. With deep sadness, we mourn the passing of Lucille Roberts, friend and inspiration, whose spirit, determination and courage touched us deeply. Her memory will live on in our hearts. Our sincerest condolences to devoted husband Bob and sons Kevin and Kirk and daughter-in-
 TURECK--Rosalyn. The family of Rosalyn Tureck mourns the passing of a beloved sister, aunt and greataunt whose international renown as a pianist and harpsichordist was attributed to her lifelong devotion to the work of Johann Sebastian Bach. The family wishes to express appreciation to her 
 ALPERIN--Ruth. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ruth Alperin, beloved mother of Barry Alperin, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. She expressed her devotion to social and humanitarin causes through exceptional philanthro
 BERZAK -- Joyce (Cookie), died July 19th, 2003 at Calvary Hospital. Survived by: Neil, her husband, best friend and great love; children, Irene and Michael, their spouses, Edwin Schoen and Janice; and granddaughter, Mirida. The family wishes to thank all her friends for their help during Co
 BRENNAN -- Valerie Claire. Beloved mother, wonderful grandmother, inspiring friend and devoted co - worker, passed away in her sleep on July 20, 2003. She is survived by two children, Deborah & John and three grandchildren. Mass of Christian Burial Thursday 10AM, St. Thomas More, 65 E 89 St
 CAHN--Jeanette. Died peacefully on the eve of her 94th birthday. Predeceased by her brother Arthur and her sister Elsie, she leaves no close relatives. Jeanette was a vibrant, intelligent woman, alert and engaged to the end. A legal secretary at Proskauer Rose LLP for over 50 years, she was
 LIPCHITZ -- Yulla. Passed away peacefully in her 92nd year on Sunday, July 20th after a short illness. A sculptor, photographer and painter, she was the widow of Jacques Lipchitz and is survived by her sons Hanno D. Mott of NYC and Frank L. (Susan) Mott of Columbus, OH, her daughter, Lolya 
 MARKS--Adele, July 21st, 2003. Beloved wife of the late David Marks. Loving sister of Betty Stewart. Devoted aunt of Linda Schleicher and great-aunt of Eric and David Schleicher. Service Wednesday, July 23rd, 11 AM, at Mt. Pleasant Cemetery, Hawthorne, New York. MARKS--Adele (nee Ba
 McELROY--Joan. The children, parents, volunteers, staff and Board of The Family Center mourn the loss of Joan McElroy, our ebullient volunteer coordinator. Her light will shine through as we continue her work. Ivy Gamble Cobb Deputy Executive Director >>AD#       
 NOVITT--Sylvia, 88, died July 19, 2003. Longtime resident of Wantagh, NY, teacher for 27 years with the Levittown school system. Survived by her beloved husband, Howard, children, Donald and Joanna, and dear grandchildren, Paul and Lisa. Sylvia was blessed with many cherished extended famil
 PLESSER--Evelyn S., 98, of Lake Worth, FL, and NYC. Beloved mother of Judith (Ronald) Targan & Deborah (Daniel) Pinkus. Grandmother of four, great-grandmother of six. She had an extraordinary capacity for making and keeping friends and will be fondly remembered by the numerous pupils she nu
 POLLOCK--Rose Beverly, 85, died peacefully on July 20, 2003. She was the loving wife of the late Irving Pollock, mother of Irene Goldman and Steven Pollock, grandmother of Rebecca and Jesse Goldman and sister of Abe and Max Kramer. A modest woman, Rose, never realized how many lives she tou
 SCHWARTZ -- Cynthia. 61, July 18, 2003, at Saint Vincent's Hospital. A long-time NYC School Social Worker and Family Therapist, she was a graduate of NYU, Hunter College School of Social Work, The Hunter College Post Graduate Program of Psychotherapy and The Ackerman Institute. She is survi
 SLOAN--Eva. THe Board of Directors and Members of The New York Section, American Urological Association mourn the death of their friend, Eva Sloan. She will be greatly missed. >>AD#       
 TURECK -- Rosalyn. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sadness the passing of its beloved friend Rosalyn Tureck on July 17 in Riverdale, New York at the age of 88. A native of Chicago, Mme. Tureck studied with Jan Chiapusso, Sophia Brilliant-Liven and later with Olga Samaroff a
 WIGDERSON -- Dorothy Marks of Atlanta, Georgia, formerly of Queens and Valley Cottage, New York, on July 17 at age 91. Widow of Henry Wigderson; much loved mother of Jon, Seth, and Kate; caring mother-inlaw of Susan Eller Wigderson, Julie Guard, and Phillip King; beloved grandmother of Adam
 BRENNAN -- Valerie Claire. Beloved mother, wonderful grandmother, inspiring friend and devoted co - worker, passed away in her sleep on July 20, 2003. She is survived by two children, Deborah & John and three grandchildren. Mass of Christian Burial Thursday 10AM, St. Thomas More, 65 E 89 St
 DEHMEL--Madeleine (nee Grim). On July 20th, 2003 of Maplewood, NJ, formerly of Short Hills, NJ. Wife of the late Richard Carl Dehmel and mother of Marian D. Boyer and her husband Paul, and Richard C. Dehmel, all of Short Hills, New Jersey. She is also survived by a brother, Charles Edward G
 GARDNER--Doris (nee Marcus-Wolfson). Formerly of Rockville Ctr, NY, Ft. Lauderdale, Fl and Toronto, Canada. Devoted wife of the late Earl and the late Aaron Wolfson. Loving mother and motherin-law of Joyce Jed and Arnold Wendroff, Jane Wolfson and John Miller, Denise and Donald Wolfson, Zit
 GUMLEY--Anne Lee of Hilton Head Island, South Carolina, and Nantucket, MA, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, passed away peacefully July 22. Devoted wife of Irwin, mother of Jane Janiak of Hilton Head, and the late Nancy Comer. Adored grandmother of Matthew Comer, Christopher, Brian and Steven Jan
 LEW--Ruth (Turoff), a woman of grace, dignity, intellect and compassion, who will be much missed. Wife of the late Irving Lew, she is survived by children, Rebecca and Jack (Ruth Schwartz), sisters and brothers, Hilda and Len Hersher, Edith and Robert Brandt, and Bernice Turoff, grandchildr
 LIPCHITZ -- Yulla. Passed away peacefully in her 92nd year on Sunday, July 20th after a short illness. A sculptor, photographer and painter, she was the widow of Jacques Lipchitz and is survived by her sons Hanno D. Mott of NYC and Frank L. (Susan) Mott of Columbus, OH, her daughter, Lolya 
 MARKS--Adele. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Life Member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Ronald M. Stuart, Pres. Joyce Baumgarten, Secy. MARKS -- Adele. Dearest friend, family by
 MARTIN--Gladys ''Aunt Gladys.'' Formerly of Miami Beach, FL, and was currently residing in Roslyn Harbor, NY, passed away peacefully at the age of 97 on July 21, 2003. Beloved aunt of Barbara and Jim Lehrer of Roslyn Harbor, NY, Dr. Jack and Barbara Martin of Bryn Mawr, PA and Sari and Ken 
 ROBERTS--Lucille. The Harvard Business School alumnae network mourns the passing of our Founding Member, long-time Sustaining Member, and dear friend Lucille Roberts (OPM 10). We extend our deepest sympathies to her husband Bob, sons Kevin and Kirk, and daughter-in-law Samantha. Karen Page,
 SCHONBRUN -- Madeline. Passed away July 20, 2003 in Aurora, CO. from natural causes. She was originally from New York City and lived in Colorado for the last fifteen years of her life. Madeline was preceded in death by her husband, Arnold, and is survived by her son, Michael of Denver and a
 TURECK -- Rosalyn. The Tureck Bach Research Institute, Inc., mourns the passing on July 17th of its Founder and Artistic Director, renowned keyboard artist, teacher, and Bach scholar Rosalyn Tureck. Reconstituted from her earlier Tureck Bach Institute after her return to this country in Sep
 CANALE--Janet (Harrison/ Levy). On July 22, 2003. Beloved wife of Don Canale. Loving mother of Barbara Levy, Larry and Stephanie Levy, Stanley Greenberg. Adored grandmother of Jennifer and Alon Markowitz, Allison and David Ansel, Lara Greenberg and great-grandmother of Talia and Gabriel Mar
 Carol Matthau, whose outspoken memoir of her life and three marriages to two famous men brought her notoriety far beyond her own wide circle of Hollywood and literary celebrities, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her son Charl
 Jean R. Warnke, a volunteer in social service organizations in Washington and the widow of Paul C. Warnke, a top official in the Johnson and Carter administrations, died on Monday in a Brooklyn hospice. She was 80 and lived in Washington. The cause was cancer, her family said.      
 HELLER--Red (Rose), widow of Ernest Heller, died July 19, 2003 at the age of 105. She lived a full, rich life. She graduated from the University of Pittsburgh and was trained and worked as a social worker. She served as Director of Camp Swatonah in Damascus, PA from inception in the late 20
 LAW--Alma H., of Scarsdale, NY died peacefully in her sleep on July 22, 2003. She was 76 years old. She was born on April 19, 1927 in Racine, Wisconsin. She was the daughter of Alma S. Hanson and Allen C. Hanson. She married Edward G. Law in 1946 who passed away in 1986. Alma was an importa
 LINDERMAN--Brenda, 64, of Boynton Beach passed away July 22, 2003. Sometimes in life if you are very lucky you will find someone like Brenda. She was more than a wife, she was a confidant, my partner, my friend. She made life a joy and an adventure. She touched everyone with whom she came i
 LIPCHITZ -- Yulla. Passed away peacefully in her 92nd year on Sunday, July 20th after a short illness. A sculptor, photographer and painter, she was the widow of Jacques Lipchitz and is survived by her sons Hanno D. Mott of NYC and Frank L. (Susan) Mott of Columbus, OH, her daughter, Lolya 
 OPTEKMAN--Annette. With profound sadness we mourn the passing of our beloved mother on July 22nd. She enriched our lives and the lives of her grandchildren and great - children. And, of course, that of our dear father, Harold, whom we lost in 1998. This extraodinary woman, born in New York 
 SINGER--Selma. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President >>AD#       
 TURECK -- Rosalyn. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sadness the passing of its beloved friend Rosalyn Tureck on July 17 in Riverdale, New York at the age of 88. A native of Chicago, Mme. Tureck studied with Jan Chiapusso, Sophia Brilliant-Liven and later with Olga Samaroff a
 CANALE--Janet (Harrison/ Levy). On July 22, 2003. Beloved wife of Don Canale. Loving mother of Barbara Levy, Larry and Stephanie Levy, Stanley Greenberg. Adored grandmother of Jennifer and Alon Markowitz, Allison and David Ansel, Lara Greenberg and great-grandmother of Talia and Gabriel Mar
 BARSKY--Vita. Age 92 and a half, died on July 23, 2003. Wife of the late Dr. Edward K. Barsky and the late John J. Abt. Really special Mom of Angela Mortarotti. Delighted mother-in-law of Lionel Mortarotti and adoring aunt of Erika Roth. She was a union organizer, co-owner of the Cookery re
 BLAKE--Mary Bradley, of Nyack, NY, died July 24th at 90. Survived by her sister Betty Brookfield, daughters Mary Tremain and Tina Girdwood, her sons Benson and James, four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at Grace Episcopal Church, 130 First Ave., N
 McELROY--Joan. On July 19th, 2003. Beloved mother of Hanna McElroy. Grandmother of Ben and Jacob Weimer. Mother-in-law of Chris Weimer. The family wish to thank all those who helped during Joan's last illness, in particular, her cousin Bryn Kelsey and, most of all, Joan's best friend Bridge
 MENAGED--Kate. Died on July 22, aged 94. Cared for her siblings her entire life. She will be remembered. Edward Menaged, Brother >>AD#       
 MILONE -- Vera Christine (Joeckle). Born on October 3, 1898 in New York City, passed away in Calgary, Alberta, Canada at the age of 104 on July 19, 2003. She is survived by son, Dr. Eugene (Helen) Milone; two grandchildren, Bart (Lynn) and Marie; and four great - grandchildren; with extende
 REINSTEIN -- Myrna Ilene (nee Gomberg), 66, of Lake Worth, FL and formerly of Dix Hills, NY, lost her valiant fight with cancer on July 21, 2003. Myrna is survived by her loving husband Harvey, her devoted children Beth and Adam and her brother, Dr. Stephen Gomberg. Sisterin-law to Linda Go
 SCHWARTZ--Sylvia Jean. On July 24, 2003. Beloved wife of Leslie Schwartz. In Tamarac, FL. Formerly of Cedarhurst and Belle Harbor, N.Y. Loving mother of Arlene and Howard Jacobs of Roslyn, N.Y. and Richard and Audrey Schwartz of Hollywood, FL. Adoring grandmother of Laura and Robert Girvin,
 WENNING--Claire S., Ed.D. Age 90. Formerly of Hartsdale, N.Y. Died peacefully at home in Cambridge, Ma. on July 22. Beloved and loving mother of Jessica Wenning of Cambridge, Ma. and Katherine Wenning of New York. She is also survived by her treasured grandchildren Georgia Zoe Watt and Davi
 BRONSTEIN--Sophia L. Died peacefully at her home in Chicago at the age of 101. Mrs. Bronstein, who was born in Bialystok, came to Chicago as a young child. She was the widow of Dr. I. Pat Bronstein, a Pediatric Endocrinologist and Professor of Pediatrics. Mrs. Bronstein is survived by her t
 LEVINE--Ellen (Leventhal), on July 24th, 2003, of Englishtown, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Cherished wife of Joe, loving mother of Marcia and Debbie, devoted sister of Larry and special friend to so many who knew her. For many years a teacher and administrator in the NYC school system. Fu
 MESSINESI -- Despina (nee Plakias), of New York City and Millerton, NY, on July 22, 2003. At Vogue magazine, from 1941 until her retirement in 1993, she worked as a fashion writer and editor, as American Vogue's representative in Paris, immediately following WWII until the early 1950's, and
 SIEGAL -- Helen Bienstock. The families of Richard and Gail Siegal and Alice and Lester Rubenfeld mourn the passing of Helen Siegal on July 24th, 2003 at the age of 90. Loving grandmother to Michael, Bippy, Jacqui and Arlo Siegal; Jody and Dean Leavitt; Joshua, Gina and Ari Rubenfeld. Also 
 AGELOFF--Ruth. Age 88, died July 17, 2003 in Scottsdale AZ. She breathed her last with devoted family around her: her husband of 64 years Rubin, her son Roy Ageloff, daughter Joan Davis, grandson Gregg Davis and daughter-in-law Hilda Allred Ageloff. She left three grandchildren, Gregg Davis
 BARSKY--Vita. Age 92 and a half, died on July 23, 2003. Wife of the late Dr. Edward K. Barsky and the late John J. Abt. Really special Mom of Angela Mortarotti. Delighted mother-in-law of Lionel Mortarotti and adoring aunt of Erika Roth. She was a union organizer, co-owner of the Cookery re
 GREENBERG -- June Eli zabeth (nee Starwald), 1920-2003, survived by her husband Jerry; children David, Deborah and Daniel; daughter - in - law Megan; grandchildren Maeve, Rose and Jack; brother Charles; and sister-in-law Grace. The funeral will be private. >>AD#       
 HERMAN--Jennifer Anne. Of Great Neck, NY. On July 24, 2003, at the age of 39. She is survived by her mother Joy Clark of Los Fresnos, TX, her brother Jeremy Clark of Westford, MA, and her sister Priscilla Clark. Jennifer graduated with a degree in international relations from Boston Univers
 KASS--Roberta T. Of Ramsey, NJ and Southampton, LI, NY. Born January 14,1928 and died on July 24, 2003 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, NJ. Wife of Gerald H. Kass, M.D. of Ramsey, NJ. Mother of Aimee Brett Kass of Ramsey, NJ, Wendy Mara Niceberg and husband Michael of Oyster Bay, NY and Bre
 LEVINE--Ellen (Leventhal), on July 24th, 2003, of Englishtown, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Cherished wife of Joe, loving mother of Marcia and Debbie, devoted sister of Larry and special friend to so many who knew her. For many years a teacher and administrator in the NYC school system. Fu
 MESSINESI -- Despina (nee Plakias), of New York City and Millerton, NY, on July 22, 2003. At Vogue magazine, from 1941 until her retirement in 1993, she worked as a fashion writer and editor, as American Vogue's representative in Paris, immediately following WWII until the early 1950's, and
 MEYERS--Ruth F., age 99, interior decorator. Beloved wife of the late Jerome Weinberg, devoted mother of the late Melvin F. Weinberg, daughter of the late Hattie Lewis Frankel Meyers and the late Aaron Frankel. Owner of Ruth F. Meyers Interiors. Mourned by her cousin, Judith E. Lipmanson of
 NOYES--Margaret T. On July 23, 2003 of Darien, CT and Fishers Island, NY. Wife of the late Blancke Noyes, she is survived by her four children, Audrey, Nicholas, Talbott and Robert, and nine grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at St. Luke's Episcopal Church in Darien, CT on Monda
 BARSKY--Vita. To have had a friend like Vita Barsky was a privilege. How we shall miss her. Carol, Reggie, Harriet >>AD#       
 BERNSTEIN--Ethel (Shankman). Passed away at 88 years of age on July 26, 2003, at home in Scarsdale, NY. Born in Trenton, NJ, on July 10, 1915, to the late Samuel and Beatrice (Elkin) Shankman. Devoted, loving and caring wife to Sidney, who predeceased her in 2002. Loving mother to sons Rich
 BRONSTEIN--Sophia L. Died peacefully at her home in Chicago at the age of 101. Mrs. Bronstein, who was born in Bialystok, came to Chicago as a young child. She was the widow of Dr. I. Pat Bronstein, a Pediatric Endocrinologist and Professor of Pediatrics. Mrs. Bronstein is survived by her t
 HAMENT--Frances. Of Great Neck, NY. Fran, beloved wife of the late Gus Hament passed away unexpectedly on July 26, 2003. She leaves behind her children Tina, Winnie, Billy (predeceased), Daniel, Nancy and Barbara; an extended family of spouses, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, unofficial
 KAYE--Gail Braun. Died July 24, 2003, from a long bout with lung cancer. Loving mother of Daphne, Dolly, Fred, Lucy and granddaughter Lola. Memorial service will be held at the Harmonie Club, 4 East 60 Street, Tuesday, July 29, at 5:30 p.m. Family has requested that donations be made to ASP
 MANHEIMER--Sylvia. The Service Guild, auxiliary of Long Island Jewish Medical Center, mourns the loss of its longtime Board member, Sylvia Manheimer. Our sincerest condolences to her family. Isabel Albom, President MANHEIMER--Sylvia L. We are deeply saddened by Sylvia's passing. She
 MESSINESI -- Despina (nee Plakias), of New York City and Millerton, NY, on July 22, 2003. At Vogue magazine, from 1941 until her retirement in 1993, she worked as a fashion writer and editor, as American Vogue's representative in Paris, immediately following WWII until the early 1950's, and
 SMITH--James E. 73, of Brookfield, CT, formerly of Wilton, CT. Retired group controller of North American Phillips Co., Inc., of NYC. Survivors include a daughter, Patricia Smith and her husband James Warren of NYC. Funeral Mass Tuesday, 10:30 AM, St. Mary's Church, Ridgefield, CT. Intermen
 BAUMRITTER -- Dorothy Doob. Distinguished professor of speech pathology at Hunter College, NYC, for thirty-six years, died peacefully. She was inducted into The Hall of Fame at Hunter College in 1975. She was involved in several organizations in the treatment and care of children and adults
 DIENER--Patricia, M.S.W. It is with sadness that we learn of the passing of our colleague and friend. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her family. The officers and members of The Postgraduate Psychoanalytic Society DIENER -- Patricia. Central Synagogue records with profound sor
 FEUCHTWANGER -- Helen Hyman, born March 6, 1909. Died July 24, 2003 at 94 years young. Beloved wife of Sigmund Feuchtwanger, who predeceased her. Cousin, aunt, godmother and friend to a large and loving extended family. A native of New York and a graduate of Cornell University, Helen touche
 GERSHFELD -- Mildred of Marlboro, NJ on July 28, 2003. Predeceased by her husband, Philip. Survived by daughters Carolyn, Barbara and grandchildren. For information: Bloomfield - Cooper Jewish Chapels, 800-247-5235. >>AD#       
 KHANI--Helen, 78, of Manhattan. A beautiful, courageous fighter to the end, her family mourns her passing and celebrates her life. Devoted wife of the late Arthur Khani, adoring mother of June Jacobs and John Khani, grandmother of Rochelle and Matthew Silpe, Cameron and Jasmine Khani, and g
 ROGERS - HOFFMAN -- Janet. It is with profound sadness, regret and sorrow that I, and all our relatives, acknowledge the loss of our beloved heroine on July 26. Throughout our 28 years of marriage my sweetheart was always my love, my partner, my confidant and my strength. Born and raised on
 ROSENBUSH -- Roslyn, on July 17, from complications of Parkinson's Disease. She endured her long illness with grace and without complaint. She was a person of gentle demeanor, and her ways were always soft and mild, and never harsh. Her passing leaves a void. She was greatly loved and will 
 SELIS--Sara Neufeld, died peacefully at the age of 93 on Monday, July 28, 2003. An amazing and talented woman who, although totally blind, brought a world of light to countless others. An accomplished and devoted social worker, she was a tireless advocate for the rights of the visually impa
 SILVERMAN--Phyllis, Ph.D. All the members of the Institute for Child, Adolescent & Family Studies mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Phyllis Silverman, Ph.D. We will miss the vitality, empathy and devotion she shared with everyone who knew her. Ava L. Siegler, Ph.D., Dir. >>AD#    
 STERN--Elyse Wolff, 82, died peacefully at her Hartsdale home on July 27, 2003. Born in Yonkers to Juliette and Joseph Wolff. She had two brothers, both deceased. She is survived by her adoring husband, whom she was married for 61 years, Henry Stern. She graduated from Robert Louis Stevenso
 Jane Barbe, who was known to millions, though not by name or appearance, as the voice of telephone-company recordings and voice-mail systems across America, died on July 18 in Roswell, Ga. She was 74. The cause was complications of cancer, said her husband, John. Ms. Barbe b
 BAUMRITTER--Dorothy Doob. In loving memory of Dorothy our distinguished and extraordinary aunt. She was an independent woman well ahead of her time. Devoted wife to her late husband Lou Baumritter. We celebrate her life. Emilie and Herb Klagsbrun David and Jean Menaker >>AD#       
 FEFFER--Bessie. Peacefully in her sleep at 95, rejoining her beloved Solomon. Loving mother of Amnon Paul and Jonathan; Grandmother of Ethan, Joshua, Rachel, and Jeremy; Great-grandmother of Rafe, Jake, Olivia and Eliza. Services Friday, 11:30 am at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amster
 GIBBONS--Therese C. (nee Adams), passed away quietly at her home on July 27, 2003. Born on October 6, 1928 in St. Benedict's PA, she graduated from St. Michael's High School in Newark, NJ and Seton Hall College. In the early 1950's ''Tess'' was a feature writer for the Newark Sunday News an
 KHANI--Helen. Our deepest sympathies to June, Michael, Rochelle, Matthew, Jake and the whole Khani family for the loss of a wonderful mother, grandmother, great grandmother, and friend. She will be greatly missed. Love, Peter, Noreen, Ryan, Brandon, and Carole Roth KHANI--Helen. Our
 MANHEIMER -- Sylvia. Temple Beth El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi >>AD#       
 McHUGH--Edna Cantor. On July 24. Artist and writer of cookbooks. Daughter of the late Eddie Cantor. Survived by her daughter Judy, grandson Lee and sisters Marilyn and Janet. All her friends knew she turned having fun into an art form. >>AD#       
 McNEIL--Florence H., 92, died July 28 at Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, New Jersey. A graduate of UCLA, she worked for Time-Life for 38 years in its CA and NY editorial offices. Long interested in Eastern art and thought, she studied Chinese watercolor painting after retiring. There are no survi
 NOYES--Margaret Talbott. Sarah Lawrence College notes with deep sorrow the death of Margaret Talbott Noyes, a devoted alumna and dear friend of the College for over fifty years. She served as a member of the Board of Trustees (1958-1963), as did her mother, Margaret Thayer Talbott from 1947
 SELIS--Sara Neufeld, died peacefully at the age of 93 on Monday, July 28, 2003. An amazing and talented woman who, although totally blind, brought a world of light to countless others. An accomplished and devoted social worker, she was a tireless advocate for the rights of the visually impa
 SUSSMAN--Miriam. Died July 28 at the age of 89. Beloved wife of her late husband Murray. Cherished mother of Alan and Leonard. Devoted sister of Marjorie Dinstman. Grandmother of Andrew, Julie and Emily. Great grandmother of Hope and Teal. Good & charitable friend to many over the years in 
 STAPLETON--Rikki. We wish to thank all of Rikki's friends and family especially Ken, Diane and Bob Kerrigan who offered their help and support during this time of our great sorrow. Her mother, Eloise Edwards >>AD#       
 DWORECKA--Frances, M.D. Born in Lida, Poland, 1920. Retired Clinical Professor of Rehab Medicine at Mt. Sinai Hospital. Widow of Sam Dworecki, mother of Maria Arnett and Roman Dworecki, mother in law of Harvey Arnett and Eleanor Reissa Dworecki, grandmother of Sarah, David and Emily, sister
 FRIED--Thelma. The Department of Dermatology at SUNY Downstate Medical Center is deeply saddened by the loss of our beloved and esteemed Departmental Administrator, Thelma Fried. Thelma served our department and the Downstate community for almost 28 years with dedication, kindness and gener
 GELLER -- Miriam (Mimi). Passed peacefully on July 27, 2003 in Pompano Beach, FL. Beloved to her family and dear friend of many; a true ''Woman of Valor.'' >>AD#       
 GINSBERG--Paula. On July 30, 2003 in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late David Ginsberg. Dear mother of the late Judie Mosbrooker and Robert Ginsberg attorney and Democratic State Committeeman. Cherished grandmother of Patti, Michael, Eric, Simon, Elizabeth and David. Services today Jul
 KHANI--Helen. Our deepest sympathies to June, Michael, Rochelle, Matthew, Jake and the whole Khani family for the loss of a wonderful mother, grandmother, great grandmother, and friend. She will be greatly missed. Love, Peter, Noreen, Ryan, Brandon, and Carole Roth KHANI--Helen. Our
 ORIS--Claire, on July 28, 2003. Beloved wife of David, loving mother of Caryl and Stacy, and mother-in-law to Eddy and Jerry, dear grandmother of Bari, Michael, Meg, Sarah, and Harry. She will be greatly missed. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory may be made to the Foundation of Or
 PHILIPS--Kaye, who died at her Guilderland home July 28th, was an active participant in local and national events. She was very proud of her service from 1973-81 as assistant to the late U.S. Senator Jacob K. Javits, and head of his Albany, NY office. She also helped organize local and nati
 RAAB--Gertrude G., Born January 12, 1905 in NYC died July 28, 2003 in Lenox, MA. A teacher in the NYC schools for over 40 years. She gave of herself to all she touched. She leaves her loving family, Gail and Martin Raab, Jonathan, Ingrid, Joshua & Sonya Raab, Nina, Evan, Rachel and Mia Fox.
 RUSSIANOFF--Lily. Beloved mother of Ira and Gene. Grandmother of Natalie and Jennie. Widow of Richard. She will be missed by friends and family. Born in New York City in 1924 to Fanny and Louis Apt. She loved New York, its politics and its people. Services Friday at 12:30 at The Riverside C
 SEILER--Lena. Died peacefully at the age of 95 on Tuesday, July 29, 2003. Beloved wife of her late husband Nathan. Loving mother of Gloria and Betty, and the late Barbara. Cherished grandmother and great grandmother of her large extended family. Friend to many in New York and South Florida 
