 Lyubov Sokolova, a Russian actress whose roles in more than 300 movies in the years after World War II shaped the image of the Soviet wife and mother, died on June 6 at her home in Moscow. She was 79. The cause was a heart attack, according to the German newspaper Die Welt. 
 BELL-Sharon P. Age 58, of Ridgewood, NJ. A MSW graduate of Yeshiva University. Survived by her husband Michael, her sons Russell and Brian, her daughter Ming Mertz, brother Irwin Koff. Services on Monday, Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt. 4 (east), Paramus, NJ.       
 BENTLEY-Charlotte Marie Fowler. Peacefully passed away on June 24 at Cabrini Hospice after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Col. Robert A.L. Bentley. She is survived by many loving friends. A native of St. Louis and a 1930 graduate of Smith College, she spent the remainder of her l
 CANTOR-Sarah Kaltman. On June 29, 2001, at age 39. Beloved wife of Kevin. Loving mother of Sam. Cherished daughter of Sandra and Alfred. Beloved sister of Lucy. Dear step-daughter of Bunny. We will always love and remember her. Sarah's unlimited kindness, caring, warmth and generosity will 
 HERZOG - Elizabeth Peterson. Mrs. Elizabeth Peterson Herzog, 93, died peacefully May 24, 2001 in Ithaca, New York. She had moved to New York City after marrying Paul M. Herzog in 1981 and continued to live there after his death in 1986. She was a Vassar graduate who did postgraduate work at
 LOUD-Rosalie Keith Kerr. Rosalie Keith Kerr Loud, known to her family and friends as Kiki, died peacefully June 10, 2001, in Paris, France while vacationing with her husband. Born in New York City, Kiki was the beloved wife of Theodore Ewald Loud, formerly of Grosse Pointe, Michigan, and Ne
 NIEMAN-Lillian. 99. Retired NYC school teacher, on June 28, 2001. Wife of the late Harry. Devoted mother of Peggy Goldsmith of Manhattan and Susan Dimond of Forest Hills. Loving grandmother of Dana Baer, Nancy Bromberg, Cindy and Teddy Dimond. Proud great grandmother of Tristan and Brendan 
 ROBIN-Richard. Your colleagues mourn your passing on June 12, 2001, and also celebrate your long and interesting life. Many will miss your sparkling wit, countless stories, your support and the many entertaining political and social discussions of your well travelled life as a man of peace 
 SALEE-Ben L. On June 29, 2001. Beloved husband of Edna until her death; father to Adrian; grandfather to Linda, Deborah and Steven; great-grandfather to Sam and Joe; loving parent to Alice, Mike and Hans. Respected lawyer and judge in Huntington, LI.       
 WIRTH-Carmen Bucher. Owner of the world famous Hassler Hotel died on June 27, 2001 in a Rome hospital. She was 88 years old.       
 ZUCKER-Freda L. (nee LeVine). Died at Verrazano Nursing Home, Staten Island, on June 30, 2001. She was 88, and had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for ten years. The youngest member of the LeVine family, she survived two brothers and four sisters. Freda LeVine was born 1913, in Elmira, Ne
 ADAMS-Christina W. On June 30, 2001. Graduate of the Hewitt School and Curry College, Milton, MA. Beloved daughter of Maryalice and Peter Adams. Sister of Monica and Daniel. In lieu of flowers contributions can be made in her name to the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International. 
 BENTLEY-Charlotte Marie Fowler. Peacefully passed away on June 24 at Cabrini Hospice after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Col. Robert A.L. Bentley. She is survived by many loving friends. A native of St. Louis and a 1930 graduate of Smith College, she spent the remainder of her l
 CANTOR-Sarah Kaltman. On June 29, 2001, at age 39. Beloved wife of Kevin. Loving mother of Sam. Cherished daughter of Sandra and Alfred. Beloved sister of Lucy. Dear step-daughter of Bunny. We will always love and remember her. Sarah's unlimited kindness, caring, warmth and generosity will 
 GOLDSTEIN-Sally. July 1, 2001, at age 85. Beloved wife of the late Victor Goldstein. Adoring mother of Andrew Goldstein. Caring mother-in-law of Gillian Jolis. The family will be receiving from 6 to 9 PM, July 3, 2001, at 87 Jericho Rd., East Hampton, NY. Interment private. Contributions in
 SMOLIAR-Esther. June 29, 2001, in Prairie Village, Kansas. Formerly of Peter Cooper Village in Manhattan and Clearbrook in New Jersey. Beloved wife of the late Milton Smoliar. She will be remembered fondly by her son and daughter-in-law, Burton and Barbara Smoliar, her grandchildren, Dr. La
 ZUCKER-Freda L. (nee LeVine). Died at Verrazano Nursing Home, Staten Island, on June 30, 2001. She was 88, and had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for ten years. The youngest member of the LeVine family, she survived two brothers and four sisters. Freda LeVine was born 1913, in Elmira, Ne
 BRAUDE-Vera. Died peacefully in her home on July 1, 2001. Truly a person of unique generosity and strength, she enjoyed her independence and expressed herself through art and sculpture. Her hospitality, reciprocated by her friends, neighbors and caregivers, helped to make her last years at 
 CANTOR-Sarah. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation extend our deepest condolences to our longstanding and devoted Board member, Bonnie Cantor, and her husband David on the loss of their beloved daughterin-law. To the Cantors, their son Kevin, S
 FALTERMEIER-Gloria J. On July 1, 2001 after a long and courageous battle with cancer at Cabrini Hospice. Beloved daughter of John and Gloria and sister of John Jr. and Brad. She is survived by many loving friends. A native of Rockville Centre and a 1982 graduate of University of California 
 GARGUILO-Emily Anne (nee Emily Anne Black of Dallas, Texas). Died Monday, July 1, St. Vincent's Hospital, New York City. She was the daughter of the late Dr. James Harvey Black & Alleen Patton of Dallas, Texas. Mrs. Garguilo was a graduate of Southern Methodist University and received a MSW
 JONES-Caroline R. The Women's Forum records with profound sorrow the death of its longtime, esteemed member, Caroline Jones and extends deepest sympathy to her family and colleagues. Joni Lysett Nelson, President       
 KAPLANSKY-Susan. The members of the NYU-Hospital for Joint Diseases Dept. of Orthopaedic Surgery, are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Susan Kaplansky, dear daughter of our distinguished colleague, Dr. Alfred D. Grant and his wife Ellen. Dr. Grant has been a dedicated member of th
 KLEIN-Carole H. Passed away suddenly on July 2, 2001 at age 67. Author of 7 nonfiction books, most notably ''Aline'' and ''Gramercy Park.'' Member of PEN, The National Arts Club and the Board of Goddard College. She was a faculty member at The New School. Loving wife of the late Ted U. Klei
 RICHMAN-Lucille. Beth El Synagogue of New Rochelle mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our dear member, Lenore Sirner, and mother-in-law of our Rabbi, Melvin Sirner. We remember many special occasions Mrs. Richman shared with her family and our community. Heartfelt condolences to Le
 THOMAS-Mary Ellen. Died on June 29 in NY. She was born in Ferndale, Michigan in 1925. Graduate of St. James High School. Served in the Navy in WW II. Graduate of University of Detroit with a degree in Accounting. Retired from the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardell. Predeceased by beloved husb
 Carmen Bucher Wirth, the owner of the Hassler Hotel in Rome, died on June 27 in a Rome hospital. She was 88. Mrs. Wirth was known for building the Hassler Hotel's image as a home for visiting travelers, introducing a personal management style in which every member of the staff was r
 Carole Honig Klein, a biographer and author of other nonfiction works, died on Monday from injuries after being struck by a car on the Upper East Side. She was 67 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Klein's most recent work was ''Doris Lessing: A Biography'' (Carroll & Graf, 2000). That was
 Gina Cigna, a dramatic soprano whose career flourished in the 1930's and 40's, and who was the first to record the title role of Puccini's ''Turandot,'' died on June 26 in Milan. She was 101. Ms. Cigna, whose given name was Geneviève, was born in Paris in 1900, the daughter of a Fr
 Margaret Kilgallen, an artist who contributed to the vibrant fusion of graffiti art, folk art, painting and installation art that emerged in San Francisco in the 1990's, died Thursday in San Francisco. She was 33. The cause was complications of breast cancer, her family said.       
 CANTOR - Sarah. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the untimely death of our member, Sarah Cantor. Our deepest sympathy to her beloved family, her husband Kevin and their son, Samuel, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi Mark Biderman, President       
 KLEIN-Carole H. Passed away suddenly on July 2, 2001 at age 67. Author of 7 nonfiction books, most notably ''Aline'' and ''Gramercy Park.'' Member of PEN, The National Arts Club and the Board of Goddard College. She was a faculty member at The New School. Loving wife of the late Ted U. Klei
 KNASTER-Baruch. The International Network of Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors mourns the passing of Baruch Knaster, father of our founding member Rebecca. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Rebecca and her family.       
 LESLIE-Charlotte Elizabeth (nee Brown). On July 2, 2001 following a long illness. Beloved mother of Judith L. Wallick of Stowe, VT; Robert E., Jr. of Brooklyn Heights and Donald F. and Charlotte of Fairfield, Connecticut, and loving grandmother of Duane, Leslie, Taylor, Jennifer, Amanda and
 SCHEIB-Rose (nee Grossberg). Passed away July 1, 2001 at the age of 89 in San Francisco. She was the loving and loved wife of the late Sol Scheib, mother of Hilda Scheib, mother-in-law of David Handsher and grandmother of Jesse and Nora Handsher. Rose graduated from Hunter College and earne
 Dr. Ruth Ann Sanger, a blood researcher and a co-author of a blood-group manual that helped make transfusions safer, died on June 4 in Britain. She was 82. Dr. Sanger was an internationally known expert in blood grouping, having worked for many years at the Medical Research Council 
 Laura Foreman, the director of dance at the New School University and a visual artist, writer and teacher, died on June 15 in Manhattan. She was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her companion, Richard Keene. Ms. Foreman came to New York in the mid-1960's
 GARGIULO-Emily Anne (nee Emily Anne Black of Dallas, Texas). Died Monday, July 1, St. Vincent's Hospital, New York City. She was the daughter of the late Dr. James Harvey Black & Alleen Patton of Dallas, Texas. Mrs. Gargiulo was a graduate of Southern Methodist University and received a MSW
 KLEIN-Carole. Meredith Monk / The House Foundation deeply mourn the passing of our longtime supporter and friend. Our deepest condolences to her family.       
 STEEG-Margaret. On July 3, 2001, in her 98th year. Born Breisach, Germany, October 19, 1903, residing in Flushing, New York since 1939. Wife of the late Paul S. Steeg. Mother of Dr. Carl Steeg (Rhonda) and Dr. Frank Steeg (Maralyn). Grandmother of Jennifer & Julie, Jason (Stacey) and Debora
 BENJAMIN-Elizabeth R. The Boards of Trustees of Monmouth Medical Center and Monmouth Health Care Foundation express sadness at the passing of a very special benefactor, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends.       
 BONDY-Rae P. Passed away on July 2, 2001, at her home in Carefree, AZ. Beloved wife of the late Philip L. Bondy. Born August 21, 1919, in Chicago, IL. Former resident of North Salem and Waccabuc, NY. Served as a volunteer for the Northern Westchester Hospital and the Carefree Arizona Public
 FENSTERSTOCK-Gertrude. We extend heartfelt condolences to Blair and Jason Fensterstock on the loss of their beloved mother. Gertrude combined an inner strength, love of life and keen intellect, with an intense devotion to Israel and the Jewish people. As a Platinum Founder and a generous su
 HUSAK-Freda. On July 5, 2001, of Lakehurst, formerly of NYC. Sister of the late Elizabeth Gould and Louise Husak. Grandaunt of Elizabeth Smith, Alyson Mickelson and Jennifer Greco. Also survived by many other great-great-nieces and nephews and her dear friend Lillian Paul of Kearny. Visitin
 SETTLE-Gloria R. Age 80, died July 5. Beloved, devoted and loving partner of Stas Pyka for over twenty years. Loving and proud mother of Joan. A fun, heel-kicking grandmother of Meagan, Heather, Michael and Cathy. Great-grandmother of Taylor, Alison, Caitlin and Jake. Loved and respected mo
 BENJAMIN-Elizabeth R. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Ocean Beach Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend Elizabeth Benjamin. Her father, William I. Rosenfeld, was a founding member of the Ocean Beach Club and its President for many years. We offer our heartfelt
 GLICKSMAN-Lillian. On July 5, 2001, at the age of 96. Wife of the late Charles. She is survived by her sons Sam (Elaine), Hal (Janet), grandsons Richie (Cynthia) and Charlie, sisters Ruth Newman, Emily Fine and Helen Landsman, as well as numerous nephews and nieces. Services Sunday, 10 AM, 
 GURFEIN-Barbara J. (nee Jacobs). 700 Park Avenue NYC, West Hampton Beach, NY, and Weston, FL, passed away July 5, 2001, peacefully after suffering a stroke a year and a half ago. Beloved wife of the late Sidney B. Gurfein. Beloved mother of the late Patricia Hope Gurfein, Leslie Gurfein San
 KLEIN-Carole. The Board of Trustees of Goddard College mourn the passing of Carole Klein, our colleague, friend, teacher, alumna. She was a great friend and a light in all our lives.       
 MORGANSTERN-Rosalie Arlene (nee Marcus). Age 71, died on July 6, 2001, with her family by her side. Joyfully married for 47 years to her soulmate, Kennard. Cherished and adored by her children Priya (Shari), Bhavani (Mindy), David and Julie; her grandchildren Saisha, Harper, Elana, Cayla, D
 SCHMERLER-Sybil Lamb. On July 5, 2001. Beloved wife of Joseph Schmerler. Devoted mother of Charles Schmerler and Julie Harrison. Loving grandmother of Sabrina and Sydney Harrison, Jessica and Justin Schmerler. Funeral service Sunday, 11 AM, at the Ballard-Durand Funeral Home, 2 Maple Ave, W
 Asoka Roy, a nurse-midwife who used the skills she learned abroad to help establish the field as a profession in the United States, died on June 22 in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 85. Ms. Roy left India, where she was born, in 1955. She earned her nurse-midwife license in New York in 1967
 Caroline R. Jones, who broke race and sex barriers in advertising to become one of the most prominent black women among agency executives, died on June 28 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 59 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, friends said. The résumé of
 BAUMAN-Zaphrirah J. Died at home July 1, 2001 in her 84th year. A devoted teacher & courageous union activist, she was also a lifelong advocate for tenants rights & other progressive political causes. She is survived by her husband Joseph Bauman; her brother Joseph Kremen; her sons Ellis an
 BELLARD-Pennie Marx. Age 61, of Decatur, NY, passed away on Thursday, July 5, in Oneonta, NY. She is survived by her loving husband Roy Bellard; her children, Jason Bellard (Yocasta), and Anna Bellard (Ian Stoll); a granddaughter Gabriella Simone Bellard; her mother Evelyn Mahoney; her sist
 BENJAMIN-Elizabeth R. One hundred one, of Elberon, NJ, died July 5, at home. Mrs. Benjamin was married in 1940 to Barets O. Benjamin, a stock broker who predeceased her. A memorial service will be held in August. For further information please contact Bloomfield-Cooper Jewish Chapels, Ocean
 BORGIA-Betty. She was a special person who possessed sparkle, self-confidence, intelligence and compassion. Though a Nurse Practitioner by trade and choice, she wore many hats and all of them fit her to perfection. Her dedication and loyalty to her patients was part of her legacy. She was t
 CHAPPELL-Lydia Hatfield. Lydia Hatfield Chappell, widow of the artist, illustrator, book designer and author Warren Chappell, died June 25, 2001, at her home in Charlottesville, Virginia. She was 93. The Chappells lived in New York City and Norwalk, Connecticut for many years before moving 
 EWING-Emma Mai (Thompson). Died June 22, 2001 at her home in Jackson, TN. A resident of NYC, she was a feature writer for The New York Times and in press relations with the American Bible Society and CARE. A memorial service is planned for August 11, 2001 at 2 PM for family and friends at t
 GARRIGUE-Sheila Kathleen. Died peacefully June 9, 2001, at her home in Chappaqua after a long battle with cancer. She was born December 30, 1931, in England, to Kathleen Norah and Edward Donaldson Hogg. At age seven, she was evacuated to Canada to escape the German air raids of World War II
 GRANT - KAPLANSKY - Susan. With unbearable sorrow, we announce the passing of our beloved daughter, Susan, on June 28th, 2001, in Jerusalem, Israel. She had just turned 38, and leaves behind her four children: Edon, 15; Tamir, 13; Gil, 9; Eliya, 3; her husband, Eyal; her siblings, Michele G
 JULIA-Taissa. Age 82, of New York City, died on June 2, 2001 after a brief illness. Her absence is deeply felt by her family and friends who miss her wit, intelligence, enthusiasm and beauty. A memorial will be held in New York City in the fall.       
 KAPLAN-Lee. The Jewish Braille Institute of America (JBI) is saddened by the passing of the mother of our esteemed Vice President, Myron Kaplan. Our heartfelt thoughts and condolences are with the family during this time of sorrow. We pray that her memory will endure as a continuing blessin
 KAPLANSKY-Susan. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff at the Hospital for Joint Diseases are deeply saddened by the loss of Susan Kaplansky, devoted daughter of our good friends Dr. and Mrs. Alfred D. Grant. Dr. Grant is a long standing member of our medical staff, who ha
 KLEIN-Carole. The Board of Trustees of Goddard College mourn the passing of Carole Klein, our colleague, friend, teacher, alumna. She was a great friend and a light in all our lives.       
 MORGANSTERN-Rosalie Arlene (nee Marcus). Age 71, died on July 6, 2001, with her family by her side. Joyfully married for 47 years to her soulmate, Kennard. Cherished and adored by her children Priya (Shari), Bhavani (Mindy), David and Julie; her grandchildren Saisha, Harper, Elana, Cayla, D
 NICHOLS - Margaret ''Maggie.'' Born June 9, 1931, died July 1. Graduated Antioch, masters at University of New Mexico. First woman editor for ''Field and Stream'' magazine. Inspired photographer. Author of ''Wild, Wild Woman: A Complete Woman's Guide to Enjoying the Great Outdoors.'' Longti
 PAYNE-Ruby (nee Brown). Of Englewood, NJ on May 24, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Albert Edward Payne. Devoted mother of Thea Payne, Richard Payne, Jeane Ryan & Susan Gato. Loving grandmother of Elizabeth Greco, Christine Perillo, Julie Greco, Christopher Payne, Laura Payne, Susan Ryan-Gun
 SCHALOW-Louise E. K. On July 2, 2001, in New York City, after a brief illness. She was predeceased by her brother, Rev. Frederick M. Schalow. She will be deeply missed by her sister, Katherine Hubbard of Los Angeles, CA, her niece and six nephews, their spouses and children. Born in New Yor
 SCHER-Esther. Died on July 4, 2001. Beloved mother of Cynthia and Judy. Loving grandmother of Amy, Marcia, Michael, Roberta, Heidi. Devoted to her 10 greatgrandchildren. She will forever be in our hearts and memories.       
 SINGER-Anna. It is with deep regret that the Maimonides Medical Center family notes the passing of Anna Singer. Ms. Singer, a staunch member of Maimonides Voluteer Assembly, was also a member of Rivka Laufer Bikur Cholim. To her children, Dr. Israel Singer, a friend of our Medical Center, a
 WATSON-Nancy Dingman ''Dingy.'' Of Truro, MA, and formerly of Putney, VT, died on June 28, 2001, in Truro, MA. Her parents were Dr. Norman and Ann Bauer Dingman of Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ. Her grandparents were Dr. James and Jeannette Beveridge Dingman of Spring Valley, NY. Burial and graveside servi
 COCA-Imogene. (1908-2001). Whose rare artistry, charm and endearing wistfulness have entertained untold millions and left an indelible imprint on all of television. Board of Governors, March 31, 1979. Academy of Television Arts and Sciences. The Imogene Coca Charitable Foundation. A not-for
 GRANT - KAPLANSKY - Susan. With unbearable sorrow, we announce the passing of our beloved daughter, Susan, on June 28th, 2001, in Jerusalem, Israel. She had just turned 38, and leaves behind her four children: Edon, 15; Tamir, 13; Gil, 9; Eliya, 3; her husband, Eyal; her siblings, Michele G
 SALTZ-Anita. On July 8, 2001. Beloved wife of Jack. Devoted mother of Leonard, Susan, Ronald and Gary. Happy grandmother of Emily, Kimberly, Victoria, Arthur and Allison. Loving sister of Selma and Lawrence Ruben, and Robert and Renee Belfer. Services will be held at 12 noon, on Monday, Jul
 WOLLINS-Sara Goldman. Died peacefully in Lauderhill, FL, on July 7, 2001, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Goldman. She is survived by her children Howard, Eugene, Alan and Harriet, daughters-in-law Beth, Judy and Fran, 10 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren. Private family s
 Tove Jansson, a Finnish author and artist whose tales for children about a family of trolls called the Moomins have been popular in many countries, died on June 27 in Helsinki. She was 86 and lived much of her later life on a rocky Finnish island. As the German magazine Der Spiegel 
 FRESE-Elizabeth B. Of Jamestown, R.I., died July 6, 2001. She was 72. Born in NYC, daughter of the late Gwendolin Evans and A. Prentiss Butler of Scarsdale, NY. She was employed by Bank of Newport from 1975 until 1995. Wife of the late Calvin W. Survived by four children, Lynda A. Frese, Ca
 HARNDEN-Ida. Dancer. Devoted wife of the late artist William Hershel Harnden. Loving mother of Bonnie and Danny. Will finally play The Palace. Cherished sister of Pauline Bloom and affectionate aunt to many nieces and nephews. She was a tireless senior advocate, loved and admired by all who
 HERRICK-Cecile ''Cookie.'' On July 9, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Edwin. Loving mother of Jayne and Donna. Dear sister of Gloria Kaplan and her husband Shelly. Cherished aunt. Services Wednesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 PEMBERTON-Catherine Watjen. Died peacefully at home on July 6th 2001 at the age of 99. Widow of the late John C. Pemberton, she was born in New York City on April 26, 1902, graduated from Chapin School with the Class of 1920, attended the Art Students League, and started a fifty-seven year 
 SALTZ-Anita. We are profoundly grieved by the passing of a devoted friend and Benefactor, whose dedication to the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and compassion for others is both a legacy and an inspiration. With her beloved husband, Jack, she established a profes
 SINGER-Anna. We mourn the passing of Anna Singer, mother of Dr. Israel Singer, Secretary General of the World Jewish Congress. May her memory be a source of eternal blessing for the family and the world Jewish community. Rabbi Henry I. Sobel Amanda and Alisha Ronaldo Heilbut, President Cong
 BOSLAND-Helen ''Nicky'' Nelson, of Amelia Island, died Monday (July 9th) of pancreatic cancer at age 67. Nicky, as she was known to everyone, formerly resided in Short Hills, New Jersey and summered in Stowe, Vermont. She was a graduate of The Beard School and Wheaton College. In New Jersey
 EPPS-Lillian J., 85. On July 9, 2001. Widow of Gerald J. Epps, M.D., much loved mother of Helen Epps, cherished aunt, and devoted sister to the late Bernice Raskin. Her strength, spirit and generosity will be missed. Memorial service: Congregation Beth Elohim, Garfield Place and 8th Avenue,
 FINDLAY-Harriet Lindsay. Died unexpectedly in her Manhattan apartment on July 5th, 2001. Known as Lindsay, she was born on August 16, 1935, in Kansas City, MO, and grew up in New Canaan, CT. A graduate of Dana Hall School, Goucher College and the Harvard-Radcliffe Business Program, she init
 FINKELSTEIN-Anne. On July 10, 2001. Died in Hollywood, FL. Beloved wife of Paul. Devoted mother of Larry and Ellen. Proud grandmother of David & Mallory. She was a true woman of valor, dedicated to all human beings. Her family and friends will miss her as a symbol of courage and compassion.
 GREEN-June Plehn. Of Las Vegas and New York. Beloved wife of Joel. Loving mother of Debra. Proud grandmother of Jennifer and Gregory. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her for her warmth, wit and caring nature. Graveside service Thursday 11:00 A.M. at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery,
 HAAS-Ilse (Cierer). At Isabella Nursing Home, on July 10, 2001. Most beloved daughter of Josef and Henriette. Beloved wife of Erich and cherished mother of Anita. Memorial service Thursday, 12PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Ilse will be remembered for her gentle w
 KAUFMAN-Miriam Spiegel, age 85 of Somers, NY on Saturday, July 7, 2001. Mrs. Kaufman was a teacher for the public school systems in Hicksville, NY. She is survived by a daughter and son-inlaw, Hermine and Arthur Blumenfeld, a son and daughter-in-law, Ira and Maria Kaufman, nine grandchildre
 KOSHLAND-Joan Posner. Formerly of NYC. Died in Foster City, CA. July 9, 2001. Survived by daughters Peggy, Linda and Mary, seven grandchildren and her sister Evelyn Weber. Preceded in death by her beloved husband Richard.       
 LANDSBERGER-Lilly. Resident of Spring Moor Retirement Home, Raleigh. N.C. On July 10, 2001 at age 89. A native of Czech Republic, she lived in Moravska Ostrava, Prague, London and New York prior to moving to Raleigh. Lilly was one of the first women to graduate law school in Czechoslovakia.
 PEMBERTON-Catherine Watjen. Died peacefully at home on July 6th, 2001, at the age of 99. Widow of the late John C. Pemberton, she was born in New York City on April 26, 1902, graduated from Chapin School with the Class of 1920, attended the Art Students League, and started a fifty-seven yea
 SALTZ-Anita. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem deeply mourn the passing of Anita Saltz. She, along with her brother AFHU Council of Trustees Member and Member of The Hebrew University Board of Governors, Robert Belfer and her sister Selma Ruben
 STEINBERG-Millie. Civic leader and county legislator for the Setauket-Stony Brook area during the 1970's died peacefully on July 9 at age 91 in Bethesda, MD. She is survived by her children Charles, Julie and Laura and grandchildren Alison and Robin. Memorial service on Thursday July 12 at 
 BERNKLAU-Dorothy Riss. Departed from us ten years ago (29 Tammuz 5751) today, but remembered fondly throughout by Her children, David and Renee, with seven-year-old granddaughter Danielle.       
 AMSTEL-Leah. Passed away peacefully on July 11, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Felix Amstel. Loving mother of Jeri Meltzer and her husband Steven. Adoring grandmother of Stephen, Scott and Wendy Schechter, and best friend of Laurel Kettle. Private funeral services will be held on Friday.   
 BACHRACH-Yvonne. On July 11, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Richard Jay. Loving father of Daniel and Lewis. Funeral services will be held on Friday, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. Interment to follow at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery. In lieu of flowers
 BEANEY-Bertha I. A lifelong resident of New York City, died in her sleep on Tuesday, July 10, 2001, of natural causes. She was 90. Born on November 17, 1910, in Washington, D.C., she was the daughter of William Beaney and Mary O'Dea Beaney. Miss Beaney served in Europe during World War II i
 COHN-Betty Fried Silver. Beautiful, vivacious, caring, beloved mother of Nanci Alderman and Larry Fried. Loving mother-in-law of Carolyn. Proud and adoring grandma of Jenny and Joey. Lifelong friend to many. The blonde bombshell has gone to join her Joe. Services ''Gutterman Musicant'', Hac
 FINDLAY-Harriet Lindsay. Died unexpectedly in her Manhattan apartment on July 5th, 2001. Known as Lindsay, she was born on August 16, 1935, in Kansas City, MO, and grew up in New Canaan, CT. A graduate of Dana Hall School, Goucher College and the Harvard-Radcliffe Business Program, she init
 IRWIN-Jane German, 74. The directors and staff of the Henry Luce Foundation deeply mourn the loss of their colleague and friend who served on the foundation's board with distinction from 1990 to 2001 and was chairman of its compensation and new programs and major grants committees. We will 
 ODENCE-Lois (Becker), on Monday, July 9, of Clearwater, FL and Brookline, MA. Beloved wife of Charles L. Odence. Loving mother of Barbara Lawrence Alfond and Theodore Alfond of Weston, MA, Ruth Lawrence duPont and Thomas duPont of Belleair, FL, Susan and Jeffrey Odence of Brockton, MA and J
 SILBERBERG-Eleanor. 92 years old. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Dear mother to Ann and Judy. Grandmother to Peter and Bonnie, Bob and Kim, Robyn and Gael. Beloved (Elly) to great-grandchildren Alex, Jessica, Jake and Tess. May she rest in peace.       
 SINGER-Anna. WIZO mourns the passing of Anna Singer who inspired her son Israel Singer to become a great leader of the Jewish people. Evelyn Sommer, President, WIZO USA       
 STERN-Carol G. Of Hollywood, FL. Passed away on Tuesday, July 10, 2001. She was born in New Haven, CT and resided for many years in Greensboro, N.C., until the death of her husband, Henry J. Lavietes. She then married the late Julian Stern and moved to Hollywood, Florida. She was active in 
 AMSTEL-Leah. Devoted mother of Jeraldine Meltzer. Cherished and loving grandmother of Stephen, Scott and Wendy Schechter. Graveside service to be held Friday, July 13 at 10AM, Mt. Pleasant Cemetery, Hawthorne, NY. AMSTEL-Leah. With great sadness we mourn the passing of Leah Amstel, 
 BUTTON-Margarita H., 90. Of 40 Stevens Camp Road, North Hero, VT, died in Buenos Aires on July 3, 2001, after a brief illness. Her beloved husband, Dr. William H. Button, Jr., died in 1982. They spent winters in New York City and each summer in North Hero. Mrs. Button was a member of the Co
 FINDLAY-Harriet Lindsay. Died unexpectedly in her Manhattan apartment on July 5th, 2001. Known as Lindsay, she was born on August 16, 1935, in Kansas City, MO, and grew up in New Canaan, CT. A graduate of Dana Hall School, Goucher College and the Harvard-Radcliffe Business Program, she init
 IRWIN-Jane German. Widow of former US Ambassador to France and Manhattan lawyer, John N. Irwin II died on July 11 of Cancer. She was 74. Mrs. Irwin who lived in New Canaan, CT. was a loving mother and grandmother with a generous giving spirit. She was active in charitable endeavors having p
 O'NEIL-Mary Hubbard, 80. Formerly of New York City died after a brief illness July 9 at St. Francis Hospital of Hartford. Mrs. O'Neil is survived by her eight children and twelve grandchildren and is predeceased by her husband George W. O'Neil. Mrs. O'Neil graduated from Our Lady of Lord an
 WAYNE-Loretta (nee Shaughnessy). On July 9, 2001. Retired social worker in public service for 50 years, first on Long Island, later New York Medical College, then Bellevue Hospital Psychiatric Department. She was a loving and devoted wife to her husband, Martin Wayne, M.D., who survives her
 Lindsay Findlay, president of the David Findlay Galleries in Manhattan, was found dead on July 5 at her home in Manhattan. She was 65. She died of natural causes, said Michael N. Findlay, her nephew and successor as head of the gallery. Harriet Lindsay Findlay came from a fa
 BLOCH-Annette. On July 12, 2001 in her 95th year. Loving mother of Judy Ringel. Cherished grandmother of Jill and Jennifer and her husband Luciano. Devoted friend of Herb Behrens and caring companions ''Ragane'', Josie and Patricia. Longtime dedicated teacher and supervisor in the NYC publi
 REYNOLDS-Dorothy Strassburger (nee Lamb). Born in Buffalo, N.Y. on November 18, 1913. Died at home on July 12, 2001 of congestive heart failure. Her parents were J. Walter Lamb and Mabel Halberstadt Lamb. She received a BA degree from Hunter College and a Master of Arts degree from Columbia
 ZALK-Sue Rosenberg, age 56, of NYC. Passed away July 11th while visiting in Florida. Sue was Vice President of Student Services, Graduate School, CUNY. She is survived by her father, Dr. Samuel Rosenberg; husband, Richard Zalk; partner, Joel Lyons; sister, Frances (Richard) Tesser; brother,
 Maria Chabot, who in the 1930's began the popular Indian markets on the Plaza in Santa Fe, N.M., and later became a close associate of the painter Georgia O'Keeffe, died on Monday in an Albuquerque hospital. She was 87. Her goal was to be a writer, but her varied life included long 
 CAMPBELL-Lady Shelagh Jocelyn Morrison-Bell Moore, age 87, formerly of New York, died April 21, 2001 in England. Journalist and author of Resident Alien. Survived by her son David A. C. Moore, daughter-in-law Christiane Citron & granddaughter Cornelia, of Denver, CO. The Memorial service En
 FREEDMAN-Ruth Gilmore. July 11, 2001. Wife of the late David Freedman. Mother of Susanna Gilmore. Grandmother of Noah Dunn. Beloved aunt to her Davis family descendants. She will be missed by a great extended family of friends whose lives she touched deeply.       
 IRWIN-Jane German. Widow of former US Ambassador to France and Manhattan lawyer, John N. Irwin II died on July 11 of Cancer. She was 74. Mrs. Irwin who lived in New Canaan, CT. was a loving mother and grandmother with a generous giving spirit. She was active in charitable endeavors having p
 KAPLANSKY-Susan Grant. On June 28, Susan Grant-Kaplansky lost her heroic battle for life. The Lehmans, who knew Susan from birth, were devastated by her sickness, and now her passing. Susan was a wonderful daughter to Dr. Alfred and Ellen Grant, sister to Michelle and Laura, sister-in-law t
 McMICKLE-Liza Morrow. Bigband era vocalist, died Sunday, June 24 at her home in North Hollywood after a brief illness. She was 87. Born in Brooklyn, she began her career in the entertainment business while still a teenager, working as a publicist for Universal Pictures in Manhattan. She cam
 MORCHOWER-Helen. Longtime resident of Morristown, New Jersey. where we fondly recall her gracious hospitality, devotion to family and acts of loving kindness. We will miss her. Donald, Neil and Michael Morchower and families       
 PEMBERTON-Catherine Watjen. Died peacefully at home on July 6th, 2001, at the age of 99. Widow of the late John C. Pemberton, she was born in New York City on April 26, 1902, graduated from Chapin School with the Class of 1920, attended the Art Students League, and started a fifty-seven yea
 SOMMER-Yvonne. Beloved wife of the late Georges M. Loving mother of Francine and Philippe, mother-in-law of Carolyn (Setlow) and Robert Batscha, and grandmother of Eric Batscha, Alexander and Daniel Sommer. Devoted sister of Jean-Pierre (Janine) Metzger of La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland; an
 STANSFIELD-Susan P. Widow of Dr. John B. Stansfield, on July 12. Beloved mother of Lindsey Stansfield Pryor and the late John Bradley Stansfield, Jr. Cherished grandmother of Christina, Antonia, Sam and Jack Pryor. She will be remembered by her family and friends for her warmth, enthusiasm 
 WISOTSKY-Mary. The Three Arrows Cooperative Society mourns the loss of longtime member, Mary Wisotsky, wife of the late Abraham. We remember with gratitude her years of devoted service on our Board of Directors. Condolences to children Arthur and Jean, Myron and Sue and grandchildren Leah, 
 ZALK-Sue Rosenberg. The students, staff, and faculty at the CUNY Graduate Center mourn the sudden and untimely death of Sue Rosenberg Zalk, Vice President for Student Affairs and pioneer in the study of women and society. She will be remembered for her unfailing committment to students, to 
 ATTERMAN-Rori. On July 11, 2001. With great sorrow we mourn the passing of our dear friend. She will be remembered for her beauty, intelligence and kindness. We will miss her greatly. A funeral service was held on July 15 in Miami, FL. A memorial gathering will be held Tuesday, July 17, in 
 GROHS-Belle. 89, of NYC, died July 14, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Arnold Grohs, devoted sister of the late Gertrude Busch and Lillian Blum, cherished aunt of Elizabeth Busch-Le Ne, Margaret Busch and Charles Busch and loving great-aunt of James Stull. A woman of great spirit, born in Ci
 HERZ-Ann Marie. Passed away at home on July 14, 2001. Beloved wife of Charles. Loving mother of Meg and her husband Bill FloydJones. Cherished grandmother of Charles and Laura. Visitation Monday, 2-5, 7-9 PM, McLaughlin & Sons Funeral Home, 9620 3rd Ave., Brooklyn, NY. Mass of Christian Bur
 MAHTANI-Mrs. Rajini Mohan. Age 62, of Shallot St, Orlando, FL, died July 4, 2001. She was born in India. She moved to Orlando from New York in 1984.Survived by husband Mohan, daughters Maya and Monica Mahtani, all of Orlando. For information, Baldwin-Fairchild Funeral Home, Orlando, FL.    
 McPARTLAND-Anne. On July 14, 2001. Retired executive secretary, W.R. Grace Co. Beloved daughter of the late Michael and Helen. Dear sister of the late Bernard and Michael, and survived by her sister-in-law Josephine. Loving aunt of Michael, Bernard, Ellen Higgins and Moira Byrnes, and the l
 ROSEMAN-Ruth (nee Nathans). Of Hartsdale, NY, formerly of New Rochelle, NY, on July 14, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Mel Roseman. Devoted mother of Sandra Lane, Shelly Benerofe and Joan Berkin. Cherished mother-inlaw of Arthur Berkin. Adored grandmother of Nancy, Robin, Doug, Jeff, Michae
 SALERNO-Mary. Died peacefully, on July 14, 2001, at an age we have long since forgotten. A caring and independent woman who was devoted to family and friends. She is survived by a sister, Tina, and a brother, Fred, and many nieces and nephews. An accomplished professional who was a pioneer 
 SOMMER-Yvonne. Beloved wife of the late Georges M. Loving mother of Francine and Philippe, mother-in-law of Carolyn (Setlow) and Robert Batscha, and grandmother of Eric Batscha, Alexander and Daniel Sommer. Devoted sister of Jean-Pierre (Janine) Metzger of La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland; an
 STANSFIELD-Susan P. Widow of Dr. John B. Stansfield, on July 12. Beloved mother of Lindsey Stansfield Pryor and the late John Bradley Stansfield, Jr. Cherished grandmother of Christina, Antonia, Sam and Jack Pryor. She will be remembered by her family and friends for her warmth, enthusiasm 
 TRENT-Terese. On July 11, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Edwin. Loving mother of Walter, Paul & the late Richard. Fond mother-inlaw of Alice, Sandy and Florence. Dear grandmother of Nancy Trent Jakubik, Patricia Trent Saidenberg, Adrien Trent and Evan Trent. Cherished greatgrandmother of Sc
 ZALK-Sue Rosenberg. I lost one of my dearest friends. For over 30 years Sue consistently exemplified loyalty, commitment, tolerance and love. She will remain in my heart forever. Marilyn Sohn Birke       
 BAUM-Lila, 73. Of Lake Worth, Florida, passed away on July 12, 2001. Mrs. Baum was born in Brooklyn, New York. She will be remembered as brilliant, funny, caring & the best wife and mother. Mrs. Baum is survived by her son Jonathan Baum of Lake Worth, Florida. She was predeceased by her hus
 BLUTTAL-Clarice passed away on July 15, 2001. She was 77. She is survived by two children, Steven and Joan Bluttal, brother Milton Wind, sister Ruth Dworin, and granddaughter Jaquelin Bluttal. For information: Zion Memorial Chapel. 914-381-1809.       
 COHEN-Irene. We regret to inform you of the passing of a beloved member of our temple family, Irene Cohen, on July 15. Our deepest condolences to her daughters Barbara and Lynne. May God comfort all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Michael Katz Leonard B. Austin, President       
 FERRITER-Lucy Katt. A longtime resident of Manhattan, died July 13, in Alexandria, VA, following a short illness. She was 84. Ms. Ferriter was born Lucy Erwin Katt in Scarsdale, NY, in 1916 to Margaret and John Katt. She attended the Masters School and graduated from Wellesley College in 19
 GERSHENGORN-Raline Berger July 14, 2001. Dear beloved mother of devoted and kind daughter Linda Grayson. Sister to the late Howard C. Berger, M.D. Also survived by her son Cary Skolnick, M.D.       
 GROHS-Belle. 89, of NYC, died July 14, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Arnold Grohs, devoted sister of the late Gertrude Busch and Lillian Blum, cherished aunt of Elizabeth Busch-Le Ne, Margaret Busch and Charles Busch and loving great-aunt of James Stull. A woman of great spirit, born in Ci
 HEWLETT-Selina Richards Wood Grew. Of Old Lyme, CT, on July 15, 2001, in her 91st year. Widow of Henry Sturgis Grew, Jr. and Roger Sanderson Hewlett. Survived by her daughters Selina G. (Mrs. W. Allen) Rossiter of Lincoln, MA; three sons, Henry S. Grew of Newport, RI; Rt. Rev. J. Clark Grew
 LEVIN-Shirley. On July 16, 2001. Dear sister of Ralph and Douglas, and sisters-in-law Diane and Elaine. Also survived by her nieces, nephews, great nieces and great nephews. Services, officiated by her nephew Rabbi Harry Levin, will be Wednesday, 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and 
 RADEL-Ellyn. July 15, 2001. Family and friends mourn the sudden and untimely death of Ellyn, daughter of the late Mr. & Mrs. Phillip Goldsmith. She was a loving mother to Deborah and Liane, a caring sister to Lynda and a devoted friend to many. Ellyn was a person of courage and family value
 SALERNO-Mary. Died peacefully, on July 14, 2001, at an age we have long since forgotten. A caring and independent woman who was devoted to family and friends. She is survived by a sister, Tina, and a brother, Fred, and many nieces and nephews. An accomplished professional who was a pioneer 
 SEAVEY-Essie, Matriarch. July 12, 1905-July 14, 2001. Mourned by her devoted sons Robert and Gilbert, her daughters-in-law, grandchildren, great - grandchildren, nieces and nephews and extended family. Intelligent, warm and witty, Essie enjoyed a rich life, a happy marriage, many close frie
 SOMMER-Yvonne. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our devoted member, Yvonne Sommer. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her beloved children Philippe and Carolyn Sommer, Francine Sommer, grandchildren Daniel, Alexander and Eric, and all their dear ones. Robert N. L
 STANSFIELD-Susan P. Widow of Dr. John B. Stansfield, on July 12. Beloved mother of Lindsey Stansfield Pryor and the late John Bradley Stansfield, Jr. Cherished grandmother of Christina, Antonia, Sam and Jack Pryor. She will be remembered by her family and friends for her warmth, enthusiasm 
 ZALK-Sue Rosenberg. We'll never be a full house again without our Sue, a wonderful friend. We'll miss her. The Poker Game       
 Katharine Graham, who transformed The Washington Post from a mediocre newspaper into an American institution and, in the process, transformed herself from a shy widow into a publishing legend, died yesterday after suffering head injuries in a fall on a sidewalk on Saturday in Idaho. She was
 FOLSOM-Mrs. Patricia C. A gracious and great lady has been lost. The Board of Trustees of the Optometric Center of New York join with the College community of the SUNY College of Optometry in mourning the loss of Pat Folsom, devoted wife of Dr. William Folsom. She was intimately associated 
 GRAHAM-Katharine. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Rockefeller University are saddened by the loss of our esteemed friend, Katharine Graham, a former member of The Rockefeller University Council. Her loyal friendship to the University will be missed. We greatly admire her tr
 HEWLETT-Selina Richards Wood Grew. Of Old Lyme, CT, on July 15, 2001, in her 91st year. Widow of Henry Sturgis Grew, Jr. and Roger Sanderson Hewlett. Survived by her daughters Selina G. (Mrs. W. Allen) Rossiter of Lincoln, MA; three sons, Henry S. Grew of Newport, RI; Rt. Rev. J. Clark Grew
 LEVIN-Shirley. On July 16, 2001. Dear sister of Ralph and Douglas, and sisters-in-law Diane and Elaine. Also survived by her nieces, nephews, great nieces and great nephews. Services, officiated by her nephew Rabbi Harry Levin, will be Wednesday, 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and 
 OPPENHEIMER-Marga. Beloved widow of P. Hans Oppenheimer, died peacefully on July 16, 2001. She will be deeply missed by both family and friends. Funeral services Friday, July 20, at 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 PLOTKIN-Mollie, 90. Of NYC, on July 16th, 2001. Devoted mother of Carol and son-in-law, Ken, grandmother of Rhona, Larry and Kris, great-grandmother of Morgan, Ashton and Cassidy, sister of Jules Miller and sister-in-law of Gertrude Miller, Blanche Weiskopf, Betty Markson and Goldie Miller.
 REYNOLDS-Mildred Ellis. Of Bridgeport, CT, formerly of New York City and Washington, CT, died July 15 at the age of 101. She is survived by her son David C. Reynolds, two grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be held at the First Congregational Church, 6 Kirby Ro
 SEAVEY-Essie, Matriarch. July 12, 1905-July 14, 2001. Mourned by her devoted sons Robert and Gilbert, her daughters-in-law, grandchildren, great - grandchildren, nieces and nephews and extended family. Intelligent, warm and witty, Essie enjoyed a rich life, a happy marriage, many close frie
 SMITH-Mary Lucas. Suddenly on July 16, 2001. Longtime resident of Manhasset, NY. Beloved wife of William A. Smith. Loving mother of David W. Smith. Grandmother of Lucas and Nicolas. In repose at The Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset on Wednesday and Thursday 3-5 & 79P
 USDAN-Beatrice. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Beatrice Usdan, our esteemed colleague, a member of The National Board and a former National Vice President. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, Nat'l Pres 
 ZALK-Sue Rosenberg. The Board of Directors and staff of the Feminist Press at CUNY mourn the sudden loss of our colleague, collaborator and friend, Sue Rosenberg Zalk. Sue served for a decade as a member & secretary of our board and chaired our transition and search committees. Her energy, 
 AXELROD-Florence. On July 17, 2001. Beloved wife of Leon. Adored mother of Felicia Porges and Alice Chaikin. Cherished grandmother of Melissa Chaikin, Eric Chaikin, John Porges and Vicki Porges Eisner, and greatgrandmother of Dylan Porges. Service today, July 19, at Frank Campbell Funeral C
 DICKMAN-Audrey Peart. Of Middletown, NJ and New York City died Monday at home. She was coordinating producer of Saturday Night Live from its inception, for 18 years. She also worked on Kraft Music Hall and several other productions and received numerous Emmy citations. Audrey was born in Lo
 GRAHAM-Katharine. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board and Members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note the death of our dedicated friend and generous supporter, Kay Graham. Her vision and civic endeavors were an inspiration to us all. In 1993, UCP was proud to best
 HEWLETT-Selina Richards Wood Grew. Of Old Lyme, CT, on July 15, 2001, in her 91st year. Widow of Henry Sturgis Grew, Jr. and Roger Sanderson Hewlett. Survived by her daughters Selina G. (Mrs. W. Allen) Rossiter of Lincoln, MA; three sons, Henry S. Grew of Newport, RI; Rt. Rev. J. Clark Grew
 LEWIS-Dr. Nancy. Nancy Hara Lewis, died July 17, in a tragic airplane accident near Fairbanks, Alaska. Loved, admired and adored by all who knew her. She will be deeply missed by her husband Hugh Rose, her parents Harriet and Dick Lewis of Great Neck, New York, her beloved sisters, Tracy Na
 OPPENHEIMER-Marga. Beloved widow of P. Hans Oppenheimer, died peacefully on July 16, 2001. She will be deeply missed by both family and friends. Funeral services Friday, July 20, at 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 RESWICK-Serena, Ph.D. A resident of New York for 75 years, Serena W. Reswick, Ph.D. (nee Weissmann), died at home in Lower Merion, PA, on July 15th, following a long illness. She will be remembered as a gifted and compassionate psychologist and as a loving and much loved wife, mother, siste
 SEAVEY-Essie, Matriarch. July 12, 1905-July 14, 2001. Mourned by her devoted sons Robert and Gilbert, her daughters-in-law, grandchildren, great - grandchildren, nieces and nephews and extended family. Intelligent, warm and witty, Essie enjoyed a rich life, a happy marriage, many close frie
 JAFFE-Fern W. (nee West). In her 76th year. Extraordinary mother of Carl. Special & devoted friend and cousin of many throughout the country. A proud veteran and devoted social worker. She was a giving and devoted person to all, while always remaining true to her principles. While she will 
 KARO-Margherita Shields. Died at her home in NYC July 9, 2001. Known as Nan, she was born July 7, 1939 in Dublin, Ireland, but spent the bulk of her life in New York. She was a 1961 graduate of Radcliffe College. Nan was an esteemed Wall Street securities analyst for over 30 years. She leav
 OPPENHEIMER-Marga. Beloved widow of P. Hans Oppenheimer, died peacefully on July 16, 2001. She will be deeply missed by both family and friends. Funeral services Friday, July 20, at 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street.       
 Grace Borgenicht Brandt, a longtime New York art dealer, died Thursday in Manhattan. She was 86  and had homes in Manhattan and Watermill, N.Y. Ms. Borgenicht was a tall woman whose carriage and general equanimity were almost queenly. She saw herself as both a friend and protector o
 BRANDT-Grace Borgenicht. Of NYC, age 86, on July 19, 2001. Beloved wife of Warren, loving mother of Jan Schwartz, Berta B. Kerr, Lois Borgenicht, stepmother of Isabella Brandt Johansen, sister of Shirley Black Kash, grandmother of Kendra, Adam, Regina, Orin, Max, Daven, Nicholas, greatgrand
 FRIEDMAN-Bernice Block. Died at 81 on July 20th, 2001 after a heroic 55-year struggle with melanoma. Widow of Charles, mother of Jonathan & Jeremy, Marilyn and Lisa, grandmother of Lindsay, Charlie, Caroline and David, and sister of Aubrey. Beautiful, hopeful and articulate, she was one str
 HORNER-Bernice Rosner. On July 17, 2001. Retired Executive Director, Visiting Nurse Service of Brooklyn. Survived by three sisters, one brother and many nieces and nephews in Hawaii. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Sunday 2-4PM and 7-9PM. Mass of C
 O'KEEFFE-Margaret ''Peggy'', nee Ryan on July 19, 2001. Emigrated from Thurles, Tipperary, Ireland. Beloved wife of the late Michael J. O'Keeffe and the late Stephen Coffey. Cherished mother of Carmel O'Keeffe Judge of California, Michael ''Buzzy'' O'Keeffe, and Barbara O'Keeffe Kennedy of 
 POWELL-Renee. Age 72, of Oradell, NJ, on July 19, 2001. Predeceased by her husband of fortytwo years, Louis Powell, former President of Alexanders Department Stores. Survived by her loving children Nancy Skulnik, Allan, Michael & Steven, sister of Milton Negrin and Anna Dastris. Adored by s
 SCHUMAN-Jacqueline. On July 20, 2001. Beloved mother of Kathy. A woman of great warmth, generosity, strength and style, a supportive friend, and a true artist. Her kind and loving spirit lives on in the hearts of those close to her.       
 Beate Uhse, who as a destitute war widow sold birth control pamphlets from a bicycle before going on to develop Europe's biggest emporium of erotic goods, died on Monday in a hospital in Switzerland. She was 81. Her company, Beate Uhse A.G., based in the northern German city of Flen
 Aveline Kushi, who taught and promoted macrobiotic cooking and helped found one of the nation's first natural food stores, died of cancer on July 3 in Brookline, Mass. She was 78 and lived in Brookline and Becket, Mass. A macrobiotic diet emphasizes whole grains and fresh vegetables
 Joan Bove, who helped make hair coloring respectable in the 1930's by introducing stylists in America to a product called Clairol that she and her husband discovered in Paris, died Saturday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. She was 99 and lived in Manhattan. In 1931, she and h
 DOBROW-Honey Chanson. Of Boca Raton, FL, died July 22, 2001, as gracefully as she lived. She leaves her beloved son Richard Steven and a bevy of adoring nieces, nephews and friends, whose lives her spirit illuminated.       
 DONDERO-Lisette. Wife of the late John A. Dondero and formerly Vice President of the New York based firm Faurot, Inc., well known to law enforcement agencies throughout the country and abroad, and a longtime member of the International Association of Identification, died on Saturday, July 2
 GOLD-Ruth. On July 22, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Loving mother of Ellen and Evan, Stacey and Isidore, Liz and Ed. Dear sister of Shirley and Seymour. Adoring grandmother of Marjorie, Bennett, Amanda, Jennifer, Daniel, Jessie and David. She will always be in our hearts. Service 
 GRAUMAN-Ida. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our devoted member of the Board of Trustees, Robert Grauman. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 LANDIS-Irene. We mourn the passing of our beloved Irene. Friend and co worker. Our deepest sympathy to the family. We will miss her. The Silberstein Family and all the Employees at David Webb       
 PEARLMAN-Leona. On July 22, 2001. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Edmund Pearlman. Cherished mother of Robin Forrest Lefkowitz and her husband Steve, and Michele Rizika. Adored and adoring grandmother of the late Bradley Jon Forrest; loving grandmother of Jeffrey and Richard Rizika. Gr
 SILVERSTEIN-Judith. July 22, 2001, of Great Neck, NY, age 57. Beloved wife of Bob, loving mother of David, Debbie Silberg and her husband David. Proud grandmother of Rachel, dear sister of Alan Gardner. New York City Public school teacher for 31 years. Funeral services at Riverside-Nassau N
 Eudora Welty, whose evocative short stories, notable for their imagery, sharp dialogue and fierce wit, made her a revered figure in contemporary American letters, died yesterday at a hospital near her home in Jackson, Miss. She was 92. She was plagued by health problems and had been
 BOVE-Joan. On July 21, 2001. 99 years and 9 months of love, laughter, and excitement. The families of Dick and Rusty Gelb, and Bruce and Lueza Gelb, and their children: Larry, Lucy, John, Jody, Jane, Richard, Connie, and Jimmy, and their children: Richard and Emily, Matthew and Andy, Nathan
 BRANDT-Grace Borgenicht. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their colleague, a founding member of ADAA. A great dealer, a great person, warm and generous, one of a kind, her memory is cherished by us all. Our sympathy and condolences to her husband, W
 DOBROW-Honey Chanson. Of Boca Raton, FL, died July 22, 2001, as gracefully as she lived. She leaves her beloved son Richard Steven and a bevy of adoring nieces, nephews and friends, whose lives her spirit illuminated.       
 FISCHER-Frances, of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late Paul. Devoted mother of Grace Greenhut and Marvin, and Martin Fischer and Susan. Cherished grandmother of Bruce and Ellen Greenhut, Arlyne and Richard Hoffman, Nancy and Frank Levin, Elizabeth Fischer a
 HOLTERMANN-Bertha W. (Bert) Of Jamaica Estates, age 97, on July 22, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Henry J. Jr., loving mother of the late Eleanor Rehman and Henry J. III, dear sister of Louise Ilse and proud grandmother of Lisa and James Rehman. She brought much joy and laughter to our liv
 KARO-Margherita Shields. Died at her home in NYC July 9, 2001. Known as Nan, she was born July 7, 1939 in Dublin, Ireland, but spent the bulk of her life in New York. She was a 1961 graduate of Radcliffe College. Nan was an esteemed Wall Street securities analyst for over 30 years. She leav
 LISMAN-Adele (nee Gruber). Of New York City, on July 22, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Samuel P., devoted sister of William, Leo, Mamie, Ida, and Martha. Cherished aunt of Marcelyn and Larry, Ronald and Anne, Linda and Maurice, Roger and Ellen, Barbara and Ted, Lee and Simone. Adored great
 NAYER-Dorothy Dennison, who spent most of her life in New York City, died on July 21, in Oakland, CA. She was 90 years old and will be remembered for her contribution to the field of nursing education. As one of nursing's early pioneers, she fought to professionalize the field by advocating
 OPPENHEIM-Annette. The National Council of Jewish Women New York Section notes with great sadness the passing of Annette Oppenheim, former Vice President for Community Services, President of our Westchester Chapter and longtime Board member. Her beauty and dedication will long be remembered
 ROCKWOOD-Ellen Banks (Bonnie). July 19, 2001. At home in Scituate, MA. Survived by her son David Rockwood III, her mother Marian L. Banks, her sister Susan Banks Edmands, her beloved companion Mark Handrahan. Private memorial service. Contributions can be made to the Dana Farber Cancer Inst
 ROSNER-Bernice H. The staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York express their deep sorrow at the loss of Bernice H. Rosner, a leading figure in home and community-based health care for more than 50 years. A former Associate Executive Director of VNSNY and, later, CEO of the Visiting N
 ROTHENBERG-Lillian. Passed away July 23, 2001. Dearest and closest friend, we will miss our wonderful Wednesdays together visiting museums, art galleries, theaters, music and dance performances. We will miss her sense of humor, her artistic talent, her generosity of spirit and her always be
 SCHER-Daphne. We join in mourning a past President, Daphne Scher, whose memory will hold a special place in all our hearts. For the 45 years she served us, Daphne touched many lives. Services will be held Tuesday, July 24, at 1:30pm at Mt Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale. Pat Roberts, President
 WESTON-Rae P. In her 91st year. Beloved wife of the late Milton R. Weston. Dearly loved mother of Joyce Engler and Harold Weston. Cherished mother-in-law of Berl Engler and Bernice Weston. Adored grandmother of Pam and Bruce Bieber. Loving great-grandmother of Alec and Harrison Bieber. Devo
 WOLFSFELD-Susanne of Forest Hills, NY on July 21, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Rudy, dearest sister of the late Hildegard Grau, and the late Lewis Schloss. She will be sorely missed by sister-in-law Trudy Schloss, nieces and nephew Ilona, Leslie, Julie, Steven and friends. Donations in Su
 APAT-Priscilla. The Partners, Attorneys and Staff of Pearlman Apat and Futterman are deeply saddened by Priscilla's death, and extend our heartfelt sympathies to Burton, Richard and the entire family. Priscilla was instantly adored by all who had the privilege of knowing her. Her radiant sm
 BECKER-Ruth Zurkow. On July 23. Wife of the late Dr. Louis Becker. Beloved mother of Jill and Henry. Donations in her memory can be made to the Beth Israel School of Nursing. 212-614-6110.       
 BOVE-Joan. On July 21, 2001. 99 years and 9 months of love, laughter, and excitement. The families of Dick and Rusty Gelb, and Bruce and Lueza Gelb, and their children: Larry, Lucy, John, Jody, Jane, Richard, Connie, and Jimmy, and their children: Richard and Emily, Matthew and Andy, Nathan
 DUNCAN-Natasha Jean, on July 21, 2001, at age 21. Beloved daughter of Ian and Ilona. Loving sister of Alec, Scott, James and David Duncan. Dear niece of Isobel Hartley and Helen Armstrong. Interment private. Memorial services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Friday, July 2
 ELISCU-Dorothy (nee Deitchman). Died suddenly while being treated at the emergency room of the Jersey Shore Hospital on May 25, 2001. Dorothy was an angel who was very beautiful, smart, kind, generous, loving, and had the ability to change peoples' lives for the better. She is survived by h
 FARBER-Barbara. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 O'SHEA-Margaret M. (nee Driscoll), wife of the late Peter J. O'Shea died on July 23, after a long illness at Gladeview Health Care Center, Old Saybrook, CT. Mrs. O'Shea was 88 years of age and lived most of her life in the Chelsea district of NYC and Jackson Heights, Queens. She is survived
 PHILIPP-Rosamond Pauli, 92. On July 18, 2001, in Williamsburg, VA. She was in advertising for 30 years in New York City. An active volunteer and civic leader in NYC, Alexandria, VA, and Williamsburg, VA.       
 ROSNER-Bernice H. The staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York express their deep sorrow at the loss of Bernice H. Rosner, a leading figure in home and community-based health care for more than 50 years. A former Associate Executive Director of VNSNY and, later, CEO of the Visiting N
 ROTHENBERG-Lillian. Our much adored Lillian lost her heroic battle to ovarian cancer on July 23, 2001. Teacher, mentor, author and artist extraordinaire, ardently devoted to family and friends. Her passion for life inspired us. Her irresistable smile & wit enchanted us. Her indomitable spir
 Frances R. Horwich, the amiable educator who engaged millions of preschoolers as the host of the pioneering children's program ''Ding Dong School'' in the 1950's, died yesterday. She was 93. Ringing an old-fashioned school bell to start the show, she would look into the camera, warm
 DUNCAN-Natasha Jean, on July 21, 2001, at age 21. Beloved daughter of Ian and Ilona. Loving sister of Alec, Scott, James and David Duncan. Dear niece of Isobel Hartley and Helen Armstrong. Interment private. Memorial services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Friday, July 2
 HIBEL-Annette. On July 25, 2001. Services Friday, 11:15AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Join her family in celebrating her life. Contributions may be made to Sjogren's Syndrome Foundation, 366 N. Bdwy, Jericho, NY 11753.       
 FULTON-Anne O'Connor. Born in New York City and graduate of the Chapin School in 1937, died at age 82, July 12, 2001, at her home in Vineyard Haven, Mass.       
 HANUS-Ann. On July 26, 2001, of NYC. She worked for 50 years with Guardian Life in NYC, and retired as an Assistant Vice President in 1985. Ms. Hanus was a graduate of Julia Richmond High School and graduated Magna Cum Laude from Baruch City College where she was a member of Beta Gamma Sigm
 KIESLER-Lillian on July 25, 2001, after a short illness. Widow of the late Frederick J. Kiesler. No funeral or memorial services. Donations in her memory to The National Museum of Women in the Arts, 1520 New York Avenue, North Washington, DC 20009-3920 would be appreciated.       
 LANGNER-Natalie. On July 26, 2001. Peacefully in her home at the age of 92. Beloved wife of the late Saul. Loving mother of Edie Langner-Landeck, dear sister of Henrietta Wallach and the late Helen Lowenthal. An inspiring teacher and guidance counselor, she was a devoted volunteer. She live
 LEIBMAN-Rita S. Adored wife of the late James J. Leibman. Beloved sister of Bernice Schaffer Bessin. Devoted cousin of Louise and Leo Yanoff. Sister of Violet Nelson. Cherished aunt, great aunt and great, great aunt to her many nieces and nephews. Her loving heart, sage advice and vivacious
 MARTIN-Lucille Staebler. 98, died as gracefully as she lived, at home, on July 24, 2001. Wife of the late Murray Martin. Artist, actress, teacher, beloved mother and grandmother of Jack and Lucy Martin Gianino, Bruce and Wilhelmina Martin Eaken, and of Gemina, Antonia, Gian-Murray, Amanda a
 McNEIVE-Joan Scarangello, 47. Beloved wife, stepmother, daughter, sister, auntie, godmother, friend. Bronx-born, graduate of Cardinal Spellman High School and American University, Joan's heart directed her life personally and professionally. Whether in fanatic support of her Yankees or in p
 DAHLINGER-Geraldine E. (nee McCullough). Of St. Simons Island, Georgia, died peacefully on Wednesday, July 18, in Brunswick, GA, after a long illness. She was the widow of the late Herbert A. Dahlinger, who retired in 1988 from Sterling Bank & Trust Co. of New York. Survivors include a daug
 DWIGHT-Georgie Potts. On July 26, 2001 peacefully at home in New York City in her 96th year. Survived by her son George; her daughter Shelley (Emery); ten grandchildren: Lucinda Dwight, George Dwight II, Margaret Dwight (Perkins), O.T. Bradley Dwight, Susannah Dwight Prout; Jonathan Dwight,
 GAVRIN-Tena P. July 26, 2001. Peacefully in her home in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. She is survived by her youngest sister Deborah Almlof of Victor, NY, three sons David, Ira and Robert, eight grandchildren and seven great grandchildren. A memorial service on August 19 
 GREENE-Joyce W. Died at home in NYC, July 27, 2001. Beloved wife of Arthur B., mother of Jonathan M., and mother-in-law of Denise. She was one of the greatest ladies ever; she was respected for her wit and generosity. She was a friend and caretaker of all animals. Joyce was born in England,
 HARNETT-Doris M. Of Ridgefield, CT formerly of New York, NY. Wife of the late Thomas A. Harnett. Survived by two sons, Thomas A. Harnett and William A. Harnett, two daughters, Doris A. Harnett and Kathleen Harnett Linger and four grandchildren, Susan, Mary Jane, Eloise and Joseph. Mass of C
 SHAFER-Margaret Creal. The Bard College community deeply mourns the passing of Margaret Creal Shafer, a longtime friend and integral member of the Bard family and the Hudson Valley cultural community. Her vitality, creativity and energy have played an essential role in the life of the colle
 STERN-Marion T. Of Wilmette, Illinois (formerly of New Rochelle, NY) of complications arising from Pemphigus, a rare autoimmune disease. Memorial Services will be held at the Hampton Inn, 5201 Old Orchard Road, Skokie, IL (phone 847-583-1111) on Saturday August 11 from 10:30 to 11:30 A.M. M
 ARMSTRONG-Mary W. At age 87, died in Topsham, ME, on July 23, 2001. After graduating from Mt. Holyoke, Mary served 20 years in the Navy. Lt. Commander (Ret.) Armstrong spent the next two decades in the State Department. Mary and the stories about her travels will be sorely missed by her sis
 COAKLEY-Virginia McPike. Died gracefully on July 27, 2001, after a long illness. The Larchmont resident was preceded in death by her sister, Gracemarie M. Neville, and her brothers, Edward J. and Frank R. McPike. She proudly served as a Women Airforce Service Pilot (WASP) during World War I
 CUMINS - SCHURMAN - Mildred. Our woman of valor, our mother. Loving wife to wonderful Leon. Grandmother, great-grandmother. Her memory, a true blessing. Robert and Edward Cumins       
 DWIGHT-Georgie Potts. On July 26, 2001 peacefully at home in New York City in her 96th year. Survived by her son George; her daughter Shelley (Emery); ten grandchildren: Lucinda Dwight, George Dwight II, Margaret Dwight (Perkins), O.T. Bradley Dwight, Susannah Dwight Prout; Jonathan Dwight,
 FEINMAN-I. Tacy. Died on Friday, July 20 at her residence in Southern Pines, NC. Private services were held at the New Montefiore Cemetery, Long Island. Survived by daughter Tacy Ammons of Southern Pines, daughter Michael Ann Berman of Jupiter, FL, son Peter A. Feinman of New York, NY, six 
 FESSLER-Adele (nee Rubinstein). Of Concordia, Monroe Township, Cranbury, NJ died on Saturday July 21, 2001 age 81 at Princeton Hospital, where during her final week she was surrounded constantly by her children, grandchildren, spouses, infant great-grandson on her hospital 7th floor. She be
 FRISHBERG-Dena Daskovsky. The Boards and Staff of Masorti Foundation for Conservative Judaism in Israel and the Masorti Movement extend condolences to Mary Lou Allen, wife of Foundation President Rabbi Daniel R. Allen, and family, on the death of her mother, Dena Daskovsky Frishberg. May he
 GAVRIN-Tena P. July 26, 2001. Peacefully in her home in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. She is survived by her youngest sister Deborah Almlof of Victor, NY, three sons David, Ira and Robert, eight grandchildren and seven great grandchildren. A memorial service on August 19 
 GOOTMAN-Phyllis M., Ph.D. On July 26, after a short illness. Dr. Gootman was a senior Professor of Physiology and Pharmacology at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn, having been on the faculty since 1975. She was a pioneering researcher in newborn physiology,
 GRAND-Sylvia. Passed away on 7/22/01. Outstanding mother, grandmother, aunt, mother-in-law and friend. Your kindness and generosity will be remembered by so many dear friends. We will always cherish your memory and we will never, ever forget you. Your loving family, Mark, Laurie & Lisa Gran
 GREENE-Joyce W. Died at home in NYC, July 27, 2001. Beloved wife of Arthur B., mother of Jonathan M., and mother-in-law of Denise. She was one of the greatest ladies ever; she was respected for her wit and generosity. She was a friend and caretaker of all animals. Joyce was born in England,
 GROTSKY-Estelle. On July 28. Through laughter and song Estelle enriched our lives. She will be missed but always remembered and loved. Wife of the late Paul Grotsky. Sister of the late Saul Moss, Bill Moss, Freda Feuer, the late Carl Moss and Jack Moss. Aunt to nieces and nephews. Services 
 KELLY-Marion Appelbaum. Beloved wife, cherished and adored mother-a true best friend. Honored & devoted grandmother. Loving and proud mother-in-law. An outstanding and charitable humanitarian. Loved by all who knew her. A magnificent woman who led an exemplary life. She was how people shoul
 LANGNER-Natalie. On July 26, 2001. Peacefully in her home at the age of 92. Beloved wife of the late Saul. Loving mother of Edie Langner-Landeck, dear sister of Henrietta Wallach and the late Helen Lowenthal. An inspiring teacher and guidance counselor, she was a devoted volunteer. She live
 LONGOBARDI-Violet. Widow of Vincent, mother of Alice Givan, mother-in-law of Curtis, grandmother of Ben and Becky, died on July 25 at the age of 91. She was a longtime and committed member of Brooklyn Friends Meeting and worked devotedly for the Mary McDowell Center for Learning. She had a 
 MEYERS - Beatrice, eighty - six, died in New York City on July 9th, 2001, the daughter of Oscar and Rose (Resnick) Meyers. She was born in New York and raised in Frackville, PA. She returned to NY to make her long career in the women's wear industry as a buyer for Allied Stores. Active as a
 SANDERS-Donna. On July 15, 2001 after a long illness. Beloved wife of Ken Starrett. Cherished sister of Helen Sheley of Greenville, Texas. Her life was spent in the arts of singing and acting. She enjoyed a long career on Broadway, television and at prominent theaters throughout the country
 SHAFER-Margaret Creal. The Bard College community deeply mourns the passing of Margaret Creal Shafer, a longtime friend and integral member of the Bard family and the Hudson Valley cultural community. Her vitality, creativity and energy have played an essential role in the life of the colle
 SOLOVEICHIK-Rebbitzin Ella (nee Shurin). Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of an aishet chayil and educator, beloved wife of Rabbi Aaron Soloveichik, devoted alumnus, renowned Talmudic scholar, and RIETS rosh yeshiva. Rabbi Sol
 WEISBORD-Stella. 95. On July 27, 2001. Loving aunt of Jane Perin and Laura Kronenberg, great aunt of Brian and Jeffrey Weiner and Amanda Perin, great great-aunt of Jessica, Mark and Zachery Weiner. Her joy of life and great generosity will be missed by her family and friends. Services on Mo
 YACHNES-Eleanor, M.D. July 29, 2000. She loved analysis, synthesis and everything in-between. We miss her everyday. Her children.       
 Dr. Bernice L. Neugarten, an authority on aging who identified a growing trend among older people to pursue more active lives and introduced the concept of the young-old and the old-old, died on July 22 at her home in Chicago. She was 85. When Dr. Neugarten began her research on agi
 COAKLEY-Virginia McPike. Died gracefully on July 27, 2001, after a long illness. The Larchmont resident was preceded in death by her sister, Gracemarie M. Neville, and her brothers, Edward J. and Frank R. McPike. She proudly served as a Women Airforce Service Pilot (WASP) during World War I
 ESSEX-Marie L. Age 64, of Trumbull, CT, died on Friday, July 27, 2001. Mrs. Essex, a well recognized fashion illustrator and fashion educator, was a member of the Parsons Fashion Design Department over 40 years as a fulltime faculty, Associate Chair for 10 years, and its Chair from 1996-200
 GILCHRIST-Pamela. Of Chappaqua, NY, died at Northern Westchester Hospital Center on Saturday, July 28, after a five-year battle with breast cancer. Born November 26, 1935, to the late Washington Roebling and Pamela Lowerre (McCaughey) Vogeley, she is survived by her husband, Bruce Gilchrist
 GREENE-Joyce W. Died at home in NYC, July 27, 2001. Beloved wife of Arthur B., mother of Jonathan M., and mother-in-law of Denise. She was one of the greatest ladies ever; she was respected for her wit and generosity. She was a friend and caretaker of all animals. Joyce was born in England,
 GROTSKY-Estelle. On July 28. Through laughter and song Estelle enriched our lives. She will be missed but always remembered and loved. Wife of the late Paul Grotsky. Sister of the late Saul Moss, Bill Moss, Freda Feuer, the late Carl Moss and Jack Moss. Aunt to nieces and nephews. Services 
 KRANTZ-Jane Iris. Of West Nyack, died on July 27, 2001, at age 74. Born in NYC, on July 15, 1927, to Sigmund and Sadie (nee Theise) Steinheimer. On December 22, 1946, she married Rabbi Abraham Krantz. In addition to her husband, she is survived by her children Jeremy Krantz (wife Robin) of 
 LONGOBARDI-Violet, 91, on July 25, 2001. With profound sorrow, our community mourns the loss of Violet, a founding board member of the Mary McDowell Center for Learning and our constant inspiration. Her commitment to creating a school in Brooklyn to nurture children with special needs, supp
 SHAFER-Margaret Creal. The Bard College community deeply mourns the passing of Margaret Creal Shafer, a longtime friend and integral member of the Bard family and the Hudson Valley cultural community. Her vitality, creativity and energy have played an essential role in the life of the colle
 SIMON-Martha. The National Council of Jewish Women, Brooklyn Section Board of Directors, and the Business and Professional Branch, mourn the loss of our beloved Board member, Martha Simon. We express our deepest condolences to her husband Ted, and to the family. Dolores Measer, Sylvia Ladne
 TEITELBAUM-Marian Judith. On July 27, 2001, at age 82. Beloved wife of the late Jerome H., for 47 years. Mother, sister, grandmother, aunt, grandaunt, woman of virtue, philathropist and friend to many. May her soul be bound up in the bonds of eternal life and may her memory be for a blessin
 VALENTIN-Gladys. While vacationing in Florida passed away as a result of injuries sustained in a car accident on July 26, 2001. She had very strong religious beliefs and had dedicated her life to the Lord Jehovah. A dedicated wife, Gladys is survived by her husband Neftali Valentin, and by 
 Fanny Brennan, an American painter of small, meticulously executed surrealist still lifes, who spent her childhood in the legendary circle of artists and writers gathered around Sara and Gerald Murphy in Paris, died on July 22 at a hospital in Manhattan. She was 80. Ms. Brennan was 
 CARROLL-Mary Louise, of Red Bank and East Quogue, NY died Monday at the Hospice Center of Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch, NJ. Surviving are her husband of 47 yrs, Martin J. Carroll Sr., nine children and spouses, Cathleen Carroll of Ocean Grove, NJ; Edmund & Sharon Carroll of Whitehou
 FREEMAN-Evelyn. Age eightyfour, on July 29, 2001. Beloved wife for forty-six years of the late John Freeman, devoted mother of Louis and Mitchell, adored grandmother of Isabel, Eric, Jonathan and Dylan. Her loving heart, independent spirit and remarkable fortitude will be missed by many. Fu
 GOOTMAN-Phyllis M., Ph.D. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of Dr. Phyllis M. Gootman, Professor of Physiology and Pharmacology, and Professor of Pediatrics, a distinguished member of our faculty for more than a quarter century. A pioneering researcher in the fi
 GREENE-Joyce W. Died at home in NYC, July 27, 2001. Beloved wife of Arthur B., mother of Jonathan M., and mother-in-law of Denise. She was one of the greatest ladies ever; she was respected for her wit and generosity. She was a friend and caretaker of all animals. Joyce was born in England,
 KOPELL-Frieda Ginsberg. Frieda ''Fritzi'' Kopell, a resident of New Rochelle died Monday July 30 at the age of 90. Pre-deceased by her beloved husband Meyer Kopell and sister Alice Kaye. Survived by daughters Linda Levine and Nancy Kopell. Sons-in-law Mark A. Levine and Gabriel Stolzenberg,
 LADIN-Mignonne Palitz. Died at home on July 29, 2001, surrounded by family. She was married to Dr. Philip Ladin. After his death, she launched a career as manager of The Brooklyn Philharmonia Symphony Orchestra. She pioneered the practice of bringing public school children to symphony conce
 McHUGH-Janet, 63, born 6 October 1937, in Redding, Calif., passed away peacefully in the Bronx on 29 July 2001, following a long illness. She worked at Columbia University in the Projects and Grants Department. She attended Vassar College Class of 1959 and studied history and classics. Her 
 SLATKIN-Gus, age 95. Loving sister to Rose, Ely and the late Frieda, Charles, Irving, Lou. Beloved aunt to Carole, Laura, Linda, Alan, Joan; dear friend to Billie Howard and Marge Benson. Valiant, generous, loyal to us all. We will cherish and miss her always.       
 TEITELBAUM-Marian Judith. On July 27, 2001, at age 82. Beloved wife of the late Jerome H., for 47 years. Mother, sister, grandmother, aunt, grandaunt, woman of virtue, philathropist and friend to many. May her soul be bound up in the bonds of eternal life and may her memory be for a blessin
