 SCHIOWITZ--Lillian. Beloved wife of Stanley. Devoted mother of Joshua Schiowitz and Ellen and Keith Ellis. Cherished grandmother of Justine Ellis. Services Sunday, 10:00 AM at RiversideNassau Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. Shiva will be observed at the home of Dr. Schiowit
 BRIGSTOCKE -- Baroness Heather Renwick, CBE. Died tragically April 30 as a result of a traffic accident in Athens, Greece. She was the beloved wife of Hugh Griffiths and the adored mother of David, Julian, Persephone and Thomas. Her daughters-inlaw, Nancy and Nicci, and her granddaughters, 
 CORVINO--Marcella. On April 30, 2004. Beloved wife of Alfredo. Loving mother of Andra and Ernesta. Sister of Carryl and the late Philip. She was a guiding light to all who knew her. A memorial service will be held at a later date.       
 DWYER--Ellen Lee. NYC and Somerset, PA. Died March 26, 2004. Enquiries, David T. Owsley, (212) 288-1845. Belated, but beloved memories of her wit, generosity and compassion. From her friends, Pat, Melissa, Barbara, Marion, Jeri, David, Mimi, Robert, Chris and Tina, Staff of the Church of th
 DWYER--Jane Estelle Broadus (Hudson). Dancer, actress, teacher, garden grower, wife, lover, mother, grandmother, and creative force extraordinaire. Died of cancer in Pittsfield, MA on Monday morning, April 26, 2004, two days short of her sixtyfifth birthday. Her loss is mourned and her life
 GORE--Selma. On Friday, April 30. She was my mother's dear niece and my first cousin, although I always called her my aunt. I thank her from the bottom of my heart for visiting my mother frequently these past few years and they loved each other so. Selma's family was part of what shaped my 
 LAUDER--Estee. The Institue for the Study of Aging mourns the passing of Estee Lauder, our honorary Founding Director. We celebrate her life and her extraordinary contributions and leadership in industry and philanthropy. We express our sincere condolences to her two sons Ronald and Leonard
 RASKIN--Ada. 80 years old. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend. Services Tuesday, 12 noon, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. Interment at Mt. Ararat Cemetery. Donations in her memory may be made to Temple Beth-El, Great Neck, NY.       
 ROONEY--Marguerite. The Directors, Trustees and Staff of the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve mourn the loss of our Chairman, Marge Rooney. Marge was an extraordinary woman and inspired us all with her selfless commitment to the Preserve and our community. Her humor and generous heart will alway
 SCHEER--Ruth. On May 1, 2004. Devoted wife of Albert, loving mother of Toni and her husband Fred, Susan, adored grandmother of Elizabeth and her husband Adam, Jonathan and wife Anne, Elissa and Michelle and her four great-grandchildren. A 1 PM graveside service will be conducted today at th
 WOLOCH--Patricia (Gettins). On Saturday, April 17, 2004, Patricia (Gettins) Woloch died peacefully at Lenox Hill Hospital. Widow of George Woloch (died 1964) and mother of George Michael Woloch (Mary C. Moffat) of Montreal. She was an enthusiastic Manhattan resident for almost 55 years and 
 WEINTRAUB--Rose. April 30, 2000. Lovingly remembered by her family. Jane, Jerry, Linda, Douglas, grandchildren and great grandchildre       
 BRIGSTOCKE -- Baroness Heather Renwick, CBE. Died tragically April 30 as a result of a traffic accident in Athens, Greece. She was the beloved wife of Hugh Griffiths and the adored mother of David, Julian, Persephone and Thomas. Her daughters-inlaw, Nancy and Nicci, and her granddaughters, 
 CORVINO--Marcella. On April 30, 2004. Beloved wife of Alfredo. Loving mother of Andra and Ernesta. Sister of Carryl and the late Philip. She was a guiding light to all who knew her. A memorial service will be held at a later date.       
 GORE--Selma. Of Woodmere and NYC. On April 30, 2004. Noted publicist. Was a loving wife to Larry. Unique mother of Billy (Adele), Tracy, Benjy and David (Mara). Wonderful grandmother to Kelly. Member of NY Press Club, Silurians, Cartoonist's Society and NYU Alumni. Supernumerary at the Metr
 LAUDER--Estee. The Institue for the Study of Aging mourns the passing of Estee Lauder, our honorary Founding Director. We celebrate her life and her extraordinary contributions and leadership in industry and philanthropy. We express our sincere condolences to her two sons Ronald and Leonard
 BAKER--Enid H., 90. Of Sea Cliff, N.Y. On May 2, 2004. Beloved mother of Charles E. & the late Valerie D. Wonderful and graceful friend whose greatest joy was her children, family and friends for whom she had great compassion and love. Memorial contributions may be made in her memory to the
 BROWN--Jane E. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System mourns the passing of Jane E. Brown, a devoted supporter of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset who inspired her husband, Dayton Brown Sr. to become a member of the Board of Trustees, where he served with distinc
 DWYER--Ellen Lee. NYC and Somerset, PA. Died March 26, 2004. Enquiries, David T. Owsley, (212) 288-1845. Belated, but beloved memories of her wit, generosity and compassion. From her friends, Pat, Melissa, Barbara, Marion, Jeri, David, Mimi, Robert, Chris and Tina, Staff of the Church of th
 SIBEN--Eileen (nee Letteau). Beloved wife of Stephen, adored mother of Sharon Morgenstern and Betsy Harris. Dear grandmother of Allison and Jeremy Morgenstern. Loving daughter of the late Jeanne and Maurice Letteau. Daughter-in-law of the late Sidney and Stella Siben. Longtime member of The
 SMITH--Susan Sherman, Of Granite Springs, NY, on May 1st, 2004. Universal Woman, mother of Katy and Henry, husband of Philip, friend to hundreds, adored and trusted professional colleague and advisor, she was cherished by everyone she touched. Born on May 14th, 1954, she was raised in Cleve
 TOPF--Eve. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) are deeply saddened by the loss of Eve Topf of Aventura, FL, beloved wife of Samuel B. Topf, one of our towering leaders. The Topfs are Technion Guardians who have reached the highest level of commitment to the 
 WEINSTEIN--Phyllis. Passed suddenly on May 2nd, 2004. She lived her life with passion. She celebrated 50 years of marriage on March 21st, 2004 with her loving husband Sid. She leaves loving children, her daughter Marcia, her son Eric and her daughter-inlaw Judie along with her granddaughter
 BAKER--Enid H., 90. Of Sea Cliff, N.Y. On May 2, 2004. Beloved mother of Charles E. & the late Valerie D. Wonderful and graceful friend whose greatest joy was her children, family and friends for whom she had great compassion and love. Memorial contributions may be made in her memory to the
 DIBBELL--Helen Hope. On May 3, 2004. Born in Chelsea, MA on January 21, 1908. Devoted wife of the late Charles Dibbell, loyal sister of Quentin Hope and the late Henry Hope, Harvey Cecil Hope, and Florence Messing, beloved mother of Sandy Dibbell-Hope, Joy Harvey, Carola Dibbell and Adam Di
 GROSS--Sydelle (Windt) List, 88, of Manhattan on May 4, 2004. Devoted wife of the late Martin J. List and the late Sidney L. Gross and devoted mother to the late Lawrence I. List. Sydelle's whole life was dedicated to her family. She is deeply loved and will always be admired by her survivi
 LUBKIN--Virginia, M.D. The Board of Directors and Medical Staff of The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary profoundly mourn the death of an esteemed colleague. Attending surgeon in the Department of Ophthalmology since 1945, Dr. Lubkin was a pioneer in the field; a gifted clinician, teacher and 
 LUBROTH--Mildred on May 4 in Madrid, Spain. Adored grandmother and mother of Guy, Claude, Adam and Juan, loving sister of Josephine Moonves and Cecile Waltzer. Her art, exhibited in all major museums of the world, will live on forever.       
 MILLER--Betty. On May 3, 2004. Actress of stage, film and TV for the past 60 years. Survived by son Frank Askin and her many loving friends.       
 PARSONT -- Charlotte (nee Silverman). On May 3rd, 2004 at age 91. Devoted wife for 50 years to the late William. Retired teacher and honored as Woman of the Year by Hadassah. Mother of Dr. Law rence (Ilene) and Rita (Michael Wolfson). Grandmother of Jason, Blair, Bethany, Sara and Deborah. 
 RUDD--Jean A. Beloved wife of Frederick and mother of Erica. Daughter of Ted Schneider of Washington, PA and Mary Ann Schneider of blessed memory. Jean was a ferocious protagonist of women's rights and the right to choose as well as children's rights. She loved her grandmother Jean and Aunt
 SEGAL--Mildred. The Officers, Trustees and members of The Forest Hills Jewish Center family mourn the death of Mildred Segal, beloved mother of our esteemed Rabbi's wife, Robin Segal Skolnik. As she has been with so many of us in our times of need through the years, so are we with Robin and
 SHURE--Dinah. On May 3, 2004. Beloved wife of Louis. Also survived by her mother Betty and sister Gloria Thurman. A warm, loving, funny, free spirit. She will be missed very much, especially by her husband and her dog Alfie. Services Thursday 11:30 AM at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ    
 WISE--Etta, 87, of New York, died May 2, 2004. She was preceded in death by her husband, Irving Wise. Survivors include two daughters, Jane Shear, of Binghamton and Alice Marshall, of Richmond, Virginia; six grandchildren; three great - grandchildren, and one on the way; one sister; and man
 BUZBEE--Ellen Wade, on May 5 at her home in Manhattan at the age of 70. Member of the New York Bar, arbitrator and former president of the Scarsdale School Board. Beloved wife of John, dedicated mother of Lynn, William and Stephen, adoring grandmother of Tian, Seana and John. Graduate of Br
 GROSS--Sydelle (Windt) List, 88, of Manhattan on May 4, 2004. Devoted wife of the late Martin J. List and the late Sidney L. Gross and devoted mother to the late Lawrence I. List. Sydelle's whole life was dedicated to her family. She is deeply loved and will always be admired by her survivi
 KHAKOO--Hamida Y., M.D. Age 67 of Bronx, New York on May 3, 2004. Loving wife of Yusuf. Caring sister of Zarina. Devoted mother of Yasmin, Aashik and Aarif. Adoring grandmother of Alex, Anika, Manisha, Wesley and Aliya. Dedicated physician at Metropolitan Hospital. She was loved by many and
 LAUDER--Estee. The Cosmetic Executive Women Board of Governors joins the Lauder family in mourning Mrs. Lauder's passing. We have special memories of Estee Lauder being the first recipient of our Lifetime Achievement Award and she will always remain an inspiration to all women in the cosmet
 RAPPAPORT -- Esfera. On May 3rd, age 79. Beloved wife of Sidney for 56 years. Deeply loved mother of Wayne and Beth (Paul Lieberman). Cherished sister of Renee (Hy Margulies) and Beverly (Al Pollins). Adored grandmother of Lucas, Gabriel and Dashiell. She cannot be replaced. Services will b
 RASKIN--Ada. Temple BethEl of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 REELY--Mary Packard. Died at her home in Saranac Lake, NY on May 3, 2004 after an extended illness. She was born in Saranac Lake, NY on December 25, 1925 to Edward Newman Packard Jr, MD and Mary Bissell Betts Packard. She graduated from St. Margaret's School, Waterbury, CT, in 1943, attende
 WASSON -- Sonia. Beloved matriarch of the Wasson and Brooks families. Sonny was a cherished friend of dozens of Scrabble, handball, tennis and card players who migrated together from Castle Hill Beach Club to Florida. Her strength, wit and energy-and her opinions--will be missed. She is sur
 Betty Miller, who played major roles on New York stages in a 60-year career, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 79 and lived in Greenwich Village. Her death came after a long illness, said her friend and colleague Jennifer Harmon. Miss Miller was als
 BURKE--Margaret (LaMon), May 5th, 2004. Lifelong NYC resident. Fought a long and valiant battle. She displayed extraordinary dignity, courage and fortitude. Predeceased by her husband of 47 years, Joseph R. Burke. Loving mother of Peggy BurkeGillespie, NYC, Joseph Burke, Odenton, MD, Suzann
 BUZBEE--Ellen. Our sincere condolences to John and all the Buzbee family on the passing of our friend and neighbor, Ellen. We will miss her indomitable spirit, her zest for life and her friendly smile. Michael Schaefer Eric Nikoloff       
 CAVANAGH--Mary Ann. 68, on April 8, 2004 of cancer at The Castle Senior Living 80th Street Residence. Ann worked for many years in hospital administration at Presbyterian, Saint Vincent's, and Roosevelt. She is survived by her brother Bill.       
 LUBKIN--Virginia. The members of the Manhattan Ophthalmological Society mourn the passing of their esteemed colleague, Virginia Lubkin. Her friendship, advice, and passion will be deeply missed.       
 STERNBERG -- Irma Kad mon. The Board of Directors and staff of the International Rescue Committee note with great sorrow the passing of our dear retired colleague, Irma Kadmon Sternberg, on May 5th at Parkway Hospital in Forest Hills, NY. Irma came to the United States during World War II a
 CAVANAGH--Mary Ann. 68, on April 8, 2004 of cancer at The Castle Senior Living 80th Street Residence. Ann worked for many years in hospital administration at Presbyterian, Saint Vincent's, and Roosevelt. She is survived by her brother Bill.       
 FARRELL -- Margaret S. (Peggy). On May 6, 2004 peacefully at her home in Hampton Bays, Long Island. Beloved wife of the late John E. Loving mother of Margot A., Ellen M., Jane M., John T. and the late Paul E. Devoted sister of James Spellane and the late Jane Gannon and Maudmary Murray. Als
 ROSENBERG--Sonia. Passed away on Friday, May 7th, 2004. Survived by her loving daughter, Susan, dear son-inlaw, Stuart, and beloved grandchildren, Darin and Danielle. She was the former president of the Sunny and Abe Rosenberg Foundation, lifelong trustee of the Charles Guttman Foundation a
 Muriel Mallin Berman, a Pennsylvania arts patron and philanthropist, died on April 13 at her home in Allentown, Pa. She was 89. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Berman, an optometrist by profession, and her husband, Philip, were benefactors of the Philadelphia Mus
 CAVANAGH--Mary Ann. 68, on April 8, 2004 of cancer at The Castle Senior Living 80th Street Residence. Ann worked for many years in hospital administration at Presbyterian, Saint Vincent's, and Roosevelt. She is survived by her brother Bill.       
 DRUCE--Olga, age 92, died of natural causes on April 18th, 2004. Producer/Director of ''Captain Video'' on TV; ''House of Mystery'' and ''Superman'' on the radio. Broadway actress in ''Judgement Day'', ''Time of Your Life'' and ''The Eternal Road''. She was Chairman of the Drama Group at th
 DUNNER--Eva. Died peacefully, her children by her side in Groton, Massachusetts on April 17, 2004. Born to Ernestine Bauer in 1916, raised in Germany until leaving for Palestine in 1932. After marriage to Hans Ruben, she married film producer/director Lasar Dunner in 1944 to whom she was ma
 GUALTIERI--Claudia Amorosi, at home on April 23, 2004, in Chapel Hill, NC. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Wife of the late Dr. Thomas Gualtieri. She is survived by her children C. Claudia Gualtieri of Oxnard, CA, Ellen Kellner of Washington, DC, Dr. C. Thomas Gualtieri of Chapel Hill, NC and Leo
 HOCHBERG--Frances Helfont Herwitz, 96, on April 30th, 2004 at her residence in Miami Beach, FL. Graveside services will be held on May 17, 10 AM at Mt. Nebo Memorial Gardens, Miami, FL.       
 KANNER--Madeline T., 88. Born in Brooklyn. A source of love, guidance and good humor, died in her home in North Miami Beach, survived by her husband, Dr. Morris Kanner, 93; sons, Drs. Steven, Joshua and Ronald Kanner; grandchildren, Laura, Daniel, Seth, Tracey, Sarah, Rebecca, and Michael; 
 KATZ--Eileen Sara. On May 7, 2004. Beloved wife of Sidney, cherished mother of Steven and Margery, loving grandmother of Jonathan, Alissa, Jeffrey, Mark and Rachel. Devoted sister to Jerry and Robert. Born in NYC in 1926, she was dearly loved and will be missed by her loving family, friends
 KNAPP--S. Magnet. On April 22, 2004 in West Palm Beach, FL at the age of 95. Painter, sculptor, enamelist. Arranged the Japan-America Women Artists Exchange Exhibition, 1960, and a similar exhibition with artists of Argentina, 1965. Both exhibitions shown in various foreign and domestic mus
 LUBROTH--Mildred on May 4 in Madrid, Spain. Adored grandmother and mother of Guy, Claude, Adam and Juan, loving sister of Josephine Moonves and Cecile Waltzer. Her art, exhibited in all major museums of the world, will live on forever.       
 MARKUS--Liza Renee. Of Chicago, IL, 33 years old, passed away on May 6, 2004, after a two year battle with metastatic breast cancer. Beloved wife of Joshua R. Markus of Chicago, IL. Loving daughter of Max and Susan Jarolem of Great Neck, NY. Devoted sister of Ilene Jarolem of Great Neck, NY
 McMAHON--Mary Elizabeth, of Lake Mohawk, NJ, died at her home on May 5th following a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late James Kane McMahon, loving mother of Joan Marie McMahon, and the late James Kane McMahon II. A Concelebrated mass of the Resurrection will be offered Monday at 10:30a
 NEWMAN--Melissa, 46, recently of Telerep on May 4, at home. Adored by many hers was a life well lived.       
 ROSENBERG--Sonia. Passed away on Friday, May 7th, 2004. Survived by her loving daughter, Susan, dear son-inlaw, Stuart, and beloved grandchildren, Darin and Danielle. She was the former president of the Sunny and Abe Rosenberg Foundation, lifelong trustee of the Charles Guttman Foundation a
 SAMUELSON -- Gertrude. (nee Goldie). On May 7, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Jerome. Adored mother of Paula & Salva, Diane and Marvin, and Susan. Cherished sister of Louis. Loving grandmother of Harold, Corey, and Felicia. Great-grandmother of five. She was a great storyteller of the olden
 SENDAK--Gussie Weiss, 78, on May 7, 2004. The family is deeply saddened by the passing of our cherished sister-inlaw and aunt, Gussie. She was the beloved wife of the late author Jack Sendak, and daughter-in-law of author Philip Sendak and his wife, Sarah, both deceased. Gussie was born in 
 SHATTAN -- Muriel Fleiss. Died suddenly on May 8, 2004. Beloved wife of Boaz Shattan, devoted mother of Boaz Jr. (Buzz) and Thomas; loving mother-in-law of Kate Shattan and inspiring grandmother. We cherished her for her wisdom, her music, her humor. Services private.       
 SHEEHAN -- Margaret M., died on May 3, 2004. There will be a requiem memorial mass on Saturday, June 5, 2004, at 10:30AM at the Church of St. Francis Xavier, 31 W. 16th St., NY, NY 10003. She was a graduate of Maplehurst Convent of the Sacred Heart, NY, and a graduate of Manhattanville Coll
 SPELKE--Judith of Delray, FL, formerly of Stanford, Ct, passed away peacefully on May 5, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Henry, devoted mother of Robert and Clifford, mother-in-law of Leslie, and grandmother of Craig, Samantha, Jenna and Brandon. Her strength and wit will be missed by her fa
 THOMAS--Helen T., 98, died April 28. Pianist, composer, teacher. Student of Percy Grainger and Carl Friedberg at Juilliard School. 1939 NY debut at Townhall. Wrote three composition books for the young pianist and co-authored a two volume technique book. Recognized for her outstanding contr
 Winson Hudson, a civil rights campaigner in rural Mississippi who flaunted her contempt for Ku Klux Klan intimidation by wearing a bright red dress the many times she marched up to the courthouse to try to register to vote, died on April 24. She was 87. Her grandson Kempton Horton s
 DRUCE--Olga, age 92, died of natural causes on April 18th, 2004. Producer/Director of ''Captain Video'' on TV; ''House of Mystery'' and ''Superman'' on the radio. Broadway actress in ''Judgement Day'', ''Time of Your Life'' and ''The Eternal Road''. She was Chairman of the Drama Group at th
 EDLIN--Ruth Marks. On May 8, 2004. 100 years young. Of Hartsdale, NY. Beloved wife of the late James S. Edlin. Cherished daughter of the late Ida and David Marks. Devoted sister of the late Selma Marks Lang and Louis Marks. Without natural children, her loving ''children'' in the fullest se
 INTRABARTOLA--Rena (nee Kaplan). Passed away on Friday, May 7, 2004. Devoted wife of Peter. Loving mother of Julia. Cherished sister of Ellen, Al-Rashed and Dana Lang. Caring daughter-in-law, sister-in-law and aunt. Cherished friend. We lost her too soon and will miss her forever. Funeral W
 KATZ--Eileen Sara. On May 7, 2004. Beloved wife of Sidney, cherished mother of Steven and Margery, loving grandmother of Jonathan, Alissa, Jeffrey, Mark and Rachel. Devoted sister to Jerry and Robert. Born in NYC in 1926, she was dearly loved and will be missed by her loving family, friends
 PAULSON--Silvia B. Age 92, on May 8, 2004, died peacefully at home with her family. Beloved wife of the late Martin Friedlander and Philip Paulson. Cherished mother and mother-in-law of Judith Friedlander & Erwin Fleissner, Sara Adler Gottlieb & Paul Gottlieb. Adored stepmother of Howard & 
 ROSENBERG--Sonia. Sunny was a woman of distinction, strength, grace, joy and compassion. She was deeply devoted to both family and friends, and she was honored for her leadership, quiet generosity and good works. Our heartfelt sympathy to Susan, Stuart, Darin and Danielle. May her memory be
 SHACK--Essie. Was just shy of her 100th birthday. It was a good and long life, filled with love for her attentive and devoted son Donald, and her daughter-in-law Barbara. We shared wonderful times with Essie on New Year's Eve, summer weekends in Great Barrington, and quiet afternoons at hom
 YELLEN--Sadie. On May 8, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Charles Yellen. Mother of Lloyd Yellen and the late Ronald Yellen, and ''Mom'' to Rita. Grandmother of five, great-grandmother of three. Her lively spirit and friendship will be missed by many.       
 ZUKERMAN--Jennie. Age 97. Passed away in her sleep after a short illness at home in North Miami Beach on May 8, 2004. She now will join her husband of 45 years, William, who predeceased her. A woman of grace passed away with those who loved her around her. A family encompassing five generat
 Sarah Betsy Fuller, an advocate for prisoners' rights who also helped law students prepare real cases, died on April 21 in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 58. The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Ronald, said. She lived in Brooktondale, N.Y. Ms. Fuller was a lawyer for Prisoners' 
 BELL--Polly Putney, 65, beloved wife of Frank S. Bell Jr. a resident of Williamstown, Massachusetts and Palm Beach, FL died Friday May 7, 2004 at her residence in Williamstown. An outdoor memorial service will be held at their residence at 255 Hancock Road Williamstown, MA Saturday, May 15,
 BOLOTOWSKY -- Meta Co hen, of NYC. February 11th, 1922--May 9th, 2004. Ferociously funny, valiant and brave for all of her life.       
 EDLIN--Ruth Marks. On May 8, 2004. 100 years young. Of Hartsdale, NY. Beloved wife of the late James S. Edlin. Cherished daughter of the late Ida and David Marks. Devoted sister of the late Selma Marks Lang and Louis Marks. Without natural children, her loving ''children'' in the fullest se
 ENGQUIST--Ruth Christine, on May 8, 2004, a Stamford resident, survived by her loving sister Helen Toomey, brother Edward Jacobsen, loving mother of Christine E. Gordon and son-in-law Sheldon M. Gordon, son, Richard William Engquist and daughter-in-law Teri Dumas, Cherished grandmother of K
 GOLDSTEIN -- Marilyn K. (1948-2004), beloved wife of 28 years to Mark, cherished mother of Maxine and Michael, loving sister of David and Susan, died May 8th, of complications from lymphoma. With a degree in business and a marketing career, she devoted her life to her family. Loved by all w
 GREENBLATT--Lucille. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Lucille Greenblatt, a treasured friend of the New York Jewish community. Lucille's lifelong commitment to education, health, and social services, as well as Jewish community c
 HOBLER--Margaret H. 83, died peacefully with her children beside her on Mother's Day in Yarmouth, ME. Born Margaret Garrison Hildeburn in New York to William L. and Charity H. Hildeburn. Her father headed the Trust Department of the Chase National Bank. Her uncle, Lindley M. Garrison, was W
 INTRABARTOLA--Rena (nee Kaplan). Passed away on Friday, May 7, 2004. Devoted wife of Peter. Loving mother of Julia. Cherished sister of Ellen Al-Rashed and Dana Lang. Caring daughter-in-law, sister-in-law and aunt. Cherished friend. We lost her too soon and will miss her forever. Funeral We
 MAYER--Liesel. On May 7, in her 100th year. Devoted wife of the late George Drew and Albert Mayer. Beloved mother of Peter Drew. Loving grandmother of Jessica and great-grandmother of Anna and Paige. Cherished stepmother of the late Lawrence Mayer and mother-in-law of Mary Mayer, step-grand
 MORSE--Joann Ryan. Died Sunday May 9th. A graduate of Vassar College and Yale University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, she retired from the Barnard College faculty in 1995 as a Professor of English after almost 40 years of teaching. She is survived by her husband, Dean Weber Morse, 
 ROSENBERG--Sonia. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a most cherished member of its extended family. Thanks to Mrs. Rosenberg's loyal friendship and generous support over the decades from the Sunny Rosenberg Foundation and the Charles Guttman Foundation, Boys Town was strengthened in
 SACHS--Virginia M., on April 24, 2004 at her home in Palm Beach, FL. Devoted mother of Raleigh S. Thompson and Guy E.C. Maitland. Beloved wife of the late Paul Maitland and Walter E. Sachs. Also survived by niece Kathryn A Carver and nephews Ian B. and Blake H. Carver, and their families. H
 SHACK--Estelle (Essie). Died peacefully in her sleep on May 9, 2004, just two months short of her hundredth birthday. An extraordinary woman who touched the lives of countless friends and members of her family. She is survived by her son Donald and daughter-in-law Barbara, by her adored gra
 SKLAVER--Laurie Bass. Beloved wife of David. Loving mother of Zachary and Craig. Daughter of Stanley and Marcia. Sister of Michael. She will remain in the hearts of everyone she touched forever. Funeral service Tuesday, May 11, 11 AM, at ''Riverside Memorial Chapel,'' 21 W. Broad St., Mt. V
 BOLOKER--Pauline. Devoted mother of David (Sheree), Iris (Al) and Ellen. Cherished sister of Jerome (Honie) and Paul Berko. Pauline was pre deceased by her beloved husband Sol and sister-in-law Lorraine. She was an extraordinary source of love, laughter and friendship to her adoring grandch
 BOWEN--Florry P., Ph.D. On May 11th, 2004. Loving mother of Lara. Devoted daughter of Regina and the late Kurt Silbiger. Dear sister of Tom Silbiger. Spirited, scholarly, creative. We will miss her. Service Thursday, 1 PM at the ''Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 FRAAD--Rita R., 88, on May 9th, 2004 at her home. Beloved wife of the late Daniel Fraad, Jr. Cherished mother of Sara Henderson and Martha Haffey, both of New York City, loving grandmother of six and great-grandmother of eight. No services. A later gathering will be announced. Contributions
 GOLDSTEIN -- Marilyn K. (1948-2004), beloved wife of 28 years to Mark, cherished mother of Maxine and Michael, loving sister of David and Susan, died May 8th, of complications from lymphoma. With a degree in business and a marketing career, she devoted her life to her family. Loved by all w
 KNOX--Ruth D. Died Sunday, Mother's Day, May 9, 2004 in Westwood, NJ. Born and raised in Manhattan, she moved to Bayside, Queens after marrying, where she raised three children. Ruth was a member of the Bayside United Methodist Church and the Bayside Women's Club. She also was a Den Mother 
 MARINO--Ethel (nee Bernstein) on Monday, May 10. having shared a wonderful life with her beloved husband, the late Senator Ralph J. Marino. Devoted daughter of the late Ida and David Bernstein. Cherished mother of Judith, James and Robert Marino. Dear mother-in-law of Andrea and Randi. Prou
 MORSE--Joann Ryan. Died Sunday May 9th. A graduate of Vassar College and Yale University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, she retired from the Barnard College faculty in 1995 as a Professor of English after almost 40 years of teaching. She is survived by her husband, Dean Weber Morse, 
 PAPE--Margaret Johnsen, of Ridge, New York, on Mother's Day in her 94th year. Predeceased by her loving husband Robert R.C. Pape, beloved mother of Robert Charles (Judy), Lois R. Dam (Richard), cherished grandmother of Amy. Laurie, Jennifer and Mark, great grandmother of Erika, Katie and Sa
 POTASH--Sarah Bennett. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected and compassionate member of the Jewish community, who enacted many deeds of loving kindness. She was the wife of the late Henry Potash and cherished mother of Robert Bennett Potash, as well as the
 ROSENBERG -- Sonia. The Nutrition Program mourns ''Sunny'' Rosenberg's passing. With her daughter, Susan Goldstein, she generously supports research for more than 25 years through the Guttman & Rosenberg Foundations. We will miss her warmth, charm and wisdom. Richard S. Rivlin, M.D., Sr VP 
 RUNSDORF -- Elizabeth Benge, formerly late of Brooklyn, NY, 84, died Sunday May 9 in Rockville, Md. Beloved wife of the late Dr. H. Norman Runsdorf, devoted mother of Blithe, Merry (George) Mendelson, Lynn (Victor) Adams, Helen (Robert) Greco, and Joseph (Marla). Loving grandmother of Jessi
 SACHS--Virginia M., on April 24, 2004 at her home in Palm Beach, FL. Devoted mother of Raleigh S. Thompson and Guy E.C. Maitland. Beloved wife of the late Paul Maitland and Walter E. Sachs. Also survived by niece Kathryn A Carver and nephews Ian B. and Blake H. Carver, and their families. H
 SKLAVER--Laurie Bass. The Board of Directors of Women At Risk express our heartfelt condolences to the Sklaver family. Laurie's work as a Board Member and Board President was an inspiration to all and she will be remembered in our hearts forever.       
 SPELKE--Judith of Delray, FL, formerly of Stanford, Ct, passed away peacefully on May 5, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Henry, devoted mother of Robert and Clifford, mother-in-law of Leslie, and grandmother of Craig, Samantha, Jenna and Brandon. Her strength and wit will be missed by her fa
 TROTTA--Patricia A., on May 10th, 2004. Age 65. Beloved wife of Francis M. Trotta, mother of Susan, Leah, Linda and Michael. Devoted grandmother of Erica, Matthew, Olivia, Julia, Mia, Nathaniel and Liam. Dear sister of Judy Mitnick, Jane Penrod and Edward Bryan. Beloved sisterin-law of Just
 WHITE--Ruth Gruber, passed away May 10, 2004. of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Loving wife of the late Frank. Beloved partner of Jay Thalheim. Adored mother of Nancy (Larry) Roth, Jeff White and Helene (Charles Levin) White. Cherished grandmother of Scott, David and Jaime Roth
 Virginia Capers, an actress and singer who won a Tony Award in 1974 for her role in ''Raisin,'' the musical version of ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' died on Thursday in Los Angeles. She was 78 and lived in Los Angeles. She died after a bout of pneumonia, said her son, Glenn Capers.      
 Dorothy Van Engle, a 1930's star of several films of the pioneer black filmmaker Oscar Micheaux, died here on Monday, her family said. She was 87 and had recently moved to Ocala from her longtime home in Port Charlotte, Fla. Known for her beauty and cool sophistication, Ms. Van Engl
 BOLOKER--Pauline. Devoted mother of David (Sheree), Iris (Al) and Ellen. Cherished sister of Jerome (Honie) and Paul Berko. Pauline was pre deceased by her beloved husband Sol and sister-in-law Lorraine. She was an extraordinary source of love, laughter and friendship to her adoring grandch
 BOWEN--Florry P., Ph.D. On May 11th, 2004. Loving mother of Lara. Devoted daughter of Regina and the late Kurt Silbiger. Dear sister of Tom Silbiger. Spirited, scholarly, creative. We will miss her. Service Thursday, 1 PM at the ''Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 FRAAD--Rita R., 88, on May 9th, 2004 at her home. Beloved wife of the late Daniel Fraad, Jr. Cherished mother of Sara Henderson and Martha Haffey, both of New York City, loving grandmother of six and great-grandmother of eight. No services. A later gathering will be announced. Contributions
 SAPERSTEIN--Marcia (nee Rosenblum). Died May 11 in Washington, D.C. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Harold I. Saperstein, devoted mother of Marc and David, loving grandmother of Sara and Stephen Frug, Adina, Daniel and Ari Saperstein, sister of David and Yvette Robinson, cherished friend. Po
 SCHRIER--Lois. On May 9, 2004, age 63. Beloved daughter of the late Grace Lasky and Melvin Schrier. Devoted sister of Harriette mourns her passing. Loved and cherished by numerous friends, family and business associates. You taught us all how to accept.       
 STOWER--Shirley L. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Richard (Nancy), Gary (Carol) Stower. Grandmother of Jonathan, Rachel and Lauren. She was loved by all who knew her. Graveside service Friday, May 14, at 1 PM, Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY.       
 BOLOKER--Pauline. Loved by all that knew her. Admired by her children. A loving mentor to her grandchildren. She will be terribly missed byall her nieces & nephews who grew up at her knee. Her sister Honie and brothers Paul and Jerome Berko will treasure her memory forever. BOLOKER-
 BOLOTOWSKY -- Meta Co hen, of NYC. February 11th, 1922--May 9th, 2004. Ferociously funny, valiant and brave for all of her life.       
 FRAAD--Rita R., 88, on May 9th, 2004 at her home. Beloved wife of the late Daniel Fraad, Jr. Cherished mother of Sara Henderson and Martha Haffey, both of New York City, loving grandmother of six and great-grandmother of eight. No services. A later gathering will be announced. Contributions
 GINNA--Margaret Williams, died May 7 at Southampton Hospital, age 80. Survived by her husband, Robert Emmett Ginna, Jr., her son, Peter St. John Ginna, daughter, Mary F. (Molly) Ginna, and two grandchildren, Henry W. and Katharine W. Ginna. Funeral service at Christ Episcopal Church, Sag Ha
 GOLDWATER--Carol K., 92, of NYC died April 21 at home. Born Mt. Vernon, NY, daughter of Ferdinand and Johanna (nee Loeb) Kuhn, beloved wife of the late James L. Goldwater, devoted mother of son Alan and daughters Joan, Lynn Pollack and Anne Landis, proud grandmother of six, great-grandmothe
 JACOBI--Ruth, 82, died peacefully in her sleep at home on May 12th, 2004. Beloved wife of Lou Jacobi. Dear sister of Estelle Dubin Steiger and aunt of many loving nieces and nephews. Ruth devoted much of her life to Jewish causes, including serving as National V.P. of Hadassah and speaking 
 KARA--Sona. On May 4, 2004 at home. Loving sister of Christina Zambakian, beloved aunt of Linda Yates and Marsha Watson, greataunt of six children. A graduate of Juilliard School of Music and former opera singer; music was her life. Memorial services will be held Saturday, May 22, 10:30, St
 STERNBERG--Ann, on May 13. Amazing mother to Julia Sternberg Lindner and sister to Joan Patsy Ostroy. Devoted and loving friend and colleague. A beautiful, vibrant woman full of spirit, music and love. She will be remembered always. Service Friday 10AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Ams
 WRIGHT--Vivian (Kennedy) On May 11, 2004 at age 76. Predeceased by her husband Walter H. Wright. Cherished mother of Meredith (Donald), Hollis (Dominick), Kendall and Rusty (Daniela). Devoted grandmother of Dani, Tom and Gaby Dioguardi. New York Times crossword puzzle afficionado! We'll mis
 Rita R. Fraad, a collector and patron of American art, died on Sunday at her home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 88. The cause was cardiac arrest, said her daughter Sara F. Henderson. Starting in the late 1940's, Mrs. Fraad assembled a noted private collection of 19th- and 20th-
 Lygia Pape, an influential Brazilian artist who worked in two important movements, Concretism and the looser Neo-Concretism, and later moved beyond them, died on May 3 in Rio de Janeiro. She was 77. The cause was complications of myelodysplasia, a blood disease, said her daughter Pa
 GINNA--Margaret Williams, died May 7 at Southampton Hospital, age 80. Survived by her husband, Robert Emmett Ginna, Jr., her son, Peter St. John Ginna, daughter, Mary F. (Molly) Ginna, and two grandchildren, Henry W. and Katharine W. Ginna. Funeral service at Christ Episcopal Church, Sag Ha
 GOLD--Maria. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Gold. Peacefully April 10, 2004. Survived by sister Rose Samora and sister-in-law Rose Nistico. We'll miss her loving smile. Cynthia, Howard, Bob, Saul, Marilyn and Toby       
 HODES--Freda Jochnowitz, 99, on May 9, 2004, in her home in Valley Stream. Her lifetime of inspiration and service will be celebrated on Thursday, May 20, at 11 AM, at Temple Gates of Zion, 322 North Corona Ave., Valley Stream.       
 KARA--Sona. On May 4, 2004 at home. Loving sister of Christina Zambakian, beloved aunt of Linda Yates and Marsha Watson, greataunt of six children. A graduate of Juilliard School of Music and former opera singer; music was her life. Memorial services will be held Saturday, May 22, 10:30, St
 MARCU--Eva D. (nee Gerson), Ph.D. Died at the age of 96 on May 12th, 2004. She was born in Dahlem, Germany, and had an epic life both astounding, amazing and distressing. Her father was a Socialist and the kindest man imaginable. He was a philanthropist, giving his wealth to those who had l
 MORSE--Joann Ryan. Died Sunday May 9th. A graduate of Vassar College and Yale University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, she retired from the Barnard College faculty in 1995 as a Professor of English after almost 40 years of teaching. She is survived by her husband, Dean Weber Morse, 
 PASSIN--Helen Latham. On May 7 at age 82, of complications following pneumonia. After serving in the Army during World War II and making (only!) one parachute jump that she never tired recounting the horrors of, Helen fled her frigid New England roots for the infinitely more cosmopolitan an
 SCHARMAN--Dorothy died May 3rd after a long illness in Clemmons, NC. Survived by her sister Ann Rutter and three nephews. Remembrances may be made to Hospice, 1100-C South Stratford Road, Winston Salem, NC. 27103.       
 TOOLEY--Patricia A. (nee Hardiman). Of Denville, New Jersey, died peacefully at her home in St. Augustine, FL on May 7, 2004 after a short illness. Beloved wife of Robert (Bob), her greatest friend and supporter. Devoted mother of son Robert Todd, and daughters Pamela and Tracie and their s
 Brenda Fassie, the wild child of South African pop who was beloved as the piercing siren of the dispossessed under apartheid, died on May 9. She was 39. Family members said that her death stemmed from an April 26 asthma attack at home that led to heart failure and brain damage. She 
 FLYGARE--Marion Grean. Her friends and admirers of the Decorators Club note with sadness the passing of Marion Flygare, a valued member since 1970. Doreen Rose Stempien, Pres.       
 GARDNER -- Ruth. Sutton Place Synagogue mourns the passing of our beloved Trustee who gave totally of herself to our congregation. An elegant woman with good taste, Ruth planned our kiddushim for sixteen years. We grieve with her children Barbara and Robert. Their loss is ours. Allan Schran
 GRAFF--Nettie Starr. 95. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of Michael and George. Grandmother of Lisa Gieg, Jonathan, David and Peter, great-grandmother of Olivia and Miranda Gieg, Charlie and Zoe Graff, and sister of Hyman Starr. Services on Monday, May 17, at 12:45 pm, Rive
 STRAUSS--Lillian B. Of North Haven, CT, on May 16, 2004, at the young age of 99. Devoted wife of the late Isadore G. Strauss, she was also the much loved and loving mother of Glenna Brody, grandmother of Ira, great-grandmother of Annabelle, Caroline, Samuel and William Brody, all of New Yor
 June Taylor, the Emmy-winning choreographer whose routines on ''The Jackie Gleason Show'' brought the chorus line into the television age, died on Sunday at a hospital in Miami, said her sister, Marilyn Gleason. She was 86 and lived in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Each week ''The Jackie Gl
 DURDA--Cathy. Our beloved and devoted friend for over 41 years who will be dearly missed for her boundless energy, kindness of heart and joy of living. Judi, Mary & Lynne       
 FIELD--Frances Kilpatrick, 83. A memorial service will be held June 4, 2004 for Frances Kilpatrick Field, of 88 Notch Hill Road, Branford, who died Saturday, May 8, 2004 at her home. She was the widow of Dr. William W. Field. The service will be at 12:00 noon in the United Church on the Gre
 FRAAD--Rita. Berry-Hill Galleries is deeply saddened by the loss of its dear friend, Rita Fraad, and extends heartfelt sympathies to her daughters, Martha, and Sara, her sister, Janet, and her beloved grandchildren and great grandchildren. Daisy, David, Fred, and Jim Hill       
 LEVENSON--Geneva M. On May 16, 2004, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Albert. Loving mother of Patricia. Funeral service will be held at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave., NYC, Wednesday, May 19, 11 AM. Contributions in her memory may be made to the American Cancer Society.       
 LIST--Lois. New School University and Mannes College of Music mourn the passing of Lois List, University Trustee and Mannes Board of Governors member and chair, whose good sense, buoyant optimism, unwavering determination, and love of music literally saved Mannes and championed Mannes's mer
 LUBAR--Rea. We mourn the passing of our dear friend and long time member of Trends, Rea Lubar. She will be missed! Trends Members       
 O'BRIEN--Mary K. A beloved teacher, linguist, and story teller, Mary K. O'Brien died on Sunday, May 16th. From her mother she inherited a passion for teaching, and from her father the art of story telling. Laughter with an ironic twist was always the common denominator. Ms. O'Brien, the dau
 SHERMAN--Winnie, age 101, died May 16, 2004 at her home in Jamesburg, NJ. Wife of the late Lee D. Sherman. Mother of the late Dr. Robert Lee Sherman. Survived by two daughters, Marjorie Cahn of MI and Dr. Lucy Goodenday of OH, a son, Paul Sherman of Morganville, NJ, seven grandchildren, and
 SPIEGEL--Claire. The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester notes with deep sadness the death of Claire Spiegel, mother of our esteemed Headmaster, Dr. Elliot Spiegel. Claire Spiegel, age 92, resided in Lancaster, California, and was the mother of Elliot, Steven and Sala (Simonds), the gra
 FINKELSTEIN--Gilda E. Of Roslyn, NY in her 68th year. Beloved wife of Ronald. Devoted mother of Andrew (Leora), Marc (Aviva), and David (Ellen). Adored grandmother of Perri, Rebecca, Brandon, Haley, and Ashley. Services Thursday, May 20, 10:00 AM at Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn, Roslyn, NY.
 KAPLAN -- Blanche Elster. Died May 17, 2004. Loving and loved wife of Jack (deceased), mother of Dan and Deb, grandmother of Emma, Zoe, Nara and Dias, motherin-law of Erik and Amy, sister, family member and friend. Accomplished social worker, family therapist and public speaker. Committed t
 MANNING--Allison, lawyer, chef, web entrepreneur and noted hostess, died tragically May 16th in a car accident. She was the adored daughter of Jack and Claire Manning of New Suffolk, NY; beloved sister of Stephen Manning of San Francisco, CA, Philip Manning of Irvington, NY, Marita Manning 
 NASH--Doris, died peacefully at home on May 16th, 2004. She is survived by loving sons Michael and Matthew and beloved granddaughter Emma. A memorial service will be held Sunday, May 23, 12:45PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to Cabr
 SHERMAN--Sydell, age 95, died peacefully at home on May 17, 2004. All of her children and grandchildren were at her bedside. Sydell gave of herself unselfishly and entirely to her family. She will be remembered for her love of life, independent spirit, intelligence and beauty. She is surviv
 Carolyn Lelyveld, who directed a pioneering Bronx day care center for children with AIDS from the poorest neighborhoods and founded programs for children with cancer in hospitals in South Africa under apartheid, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 64 and lived 
 BOSTWICK--Eleanor P., died May 18, 2004, seven days after her 100th birthday, at her home in Old Westbury, NY. She married her late husband, Albert C. Bostwick, in 1937. Mr. Bostwick died in 1980. She is survived by two sons and one daughter: Albert C. Bostwick, Jr. of Aiken, SC, Andrew G.C
 BOSTWICK--Purvy. We at Worldly Things are deeply saddened by the passing of our longtime friend. We will miss her wit and beauty and great sense of joy. Our thoughts and love are extended to the family. Harry Van De Ven Worldly Things       
 FINKELSTEIN--Gilda E. Of Roslyn, NY in her 68th year. Beloved wife of Ronald. Devoted mother of Andrew (Leora), Marc (Aviva), and David (Ellen). Adored grandmother of Perri, Rebecca, Brandon, Haley, and Ashley. Services Thursday, May 20, 10:00 AM at Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn, Roslyn, NY.
 KELLER--Carole of New York City. Adoring mother of Alexandra and Nicholas. Cherished wife of Marc. Beloved sister of Celia & Janet. Devoted grandmother to Chloe. Wake on Thursday 2-5 & 7-9PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at E. 81 St. Memorial services Friday at St. Thomas More, 89 
 SHERMAN--Sydell, age 95, died peacefully at home on May 17, 2004. All of her children and grandchildren were at her bedside. Sydell gave of herself unselfishly and entirely to her family. She will be remembered for her love of life, independent spirit, intelligence and beauty. She is surviv
 ADLER--Frances, 87, died May 20, 2004 in Coral Springs, FL. She was married to the late Jack Adler for 59 years. She is survived by her devoted daughter Gloria and her husband Michael; her loving son Paul and his wife Janet. She is also survived by four beautiful grandchildren, David, Debor
 BOSTWICK--Eleanor P., died May 18, 2004, seven days after her 100th birthday, at her home in Old Westbury, NY. She married her late husband, Albert C. Bostwick, in 1937. Mr. Bostwick died in 1980. She is survived by two sons and one daughter: Albert C. Bostwick, Jr. of Aiken, SC, Andrew G.C
 HATA -- Yoshie Sakamoto. Born March 16, 1914 in Washiwa Oahu, Hawaii passed on in peace February 5, 2004 at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in New York City at the age of 89. Yoshie Hata was the daughter of Shinaemon Sakamoto and Toshi Matsunaga. Her husband, Shizuo, predeceased her in 1995. 
 HELLER--Mary. The Board and staff of American Jewish World Service mourn the passing of Mary Heller, the mother of our Board member, Linda Heller Kamm. Marty Friedman, Chair Ruth Messinger, Exec. Dir. American Jewish World Service HELLER -- Mary. Warm, beautiful lady. She will be mi
 KAHN--Shirley F., on May 19th, 2004 in West Palm Beach, FL at age 81. She is survived by her beloved husband Chuck, their daughter Marguerite, their son Gene and his wife Connie. She was the devoted grandmother of Amanda and Jodi. Gifts in her memory may be sent to the ''Shirley Kahn Memori
 KAPLAN -- Blanche Elster. Died May 17, 2004. Loving and loved wife of Jack (deceased), mother of Dan and Deb, grandmother of Emma, Zoe, Nara and Dias, motherin-law of Erik and Amy, sister, family member and friend. Accomplished social worker, family therapist and public speaker. Committed t
 KEARNS--Agnes (nee Kelly) on May 19, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Joseph G. Kearns. Loving mother of Kristine A. and the late Michael and Stephen, sister of William J. Kelly of Garden City and the late Eileen Reidy. Survived by her grandchildren Michael and Marieke, their mother Marianne 
 KREISLER--Margaret, age 92, on May 19. Wife of the late Kurt Kreisler, she lived in Pelham, NY before moving to Princeton, NJ in 1967. Funeral Mass 10AM Monday, May 24, St. James RC Church, Pennington, NJ. Interment private, Holy Sepulchre Cemetery, New Rochelle, NY       
 MANLEY--Marguerite, beloved wife of her late husband, Otto, mother of Edward, John and Frances and daughters-in-law Maya and Susanne, grandmother of Alan, Audrey and Thomas Fritton, Jr., Cynthia and Thomas Baldwin, Catherine, Chris and Sarah, and greatgrandmother of Esme Fritton, we mourn y
 WILLIAMS--Edith. The Board of Directors and tenants/ shareholders of 1035 Fifth Avenue Corp. mourn the passing of Mrs. Edith Williams, a longtime resident and Director Emeritus of 1035 Fifth Avenue Corp. Mrs. Williams was a major contributor to the well-being of the building and its residen
 BALSAM--Joy. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Joy Balsam, a woman of extraordinary energy and spirit. Joy's passion for Jewish life, and her high standards of excellence, inspired us all. We will miss her. May her husband, Jerry Balsam, and the rest of her family be comfort
 FISHNER--Rose. 93. Beloved wife of the late Harry Fishner. Devoted sister of Shirley Levine. Loving aunt of Robert and Johanan Levine. Great aunt of Deidre. A lady of outstanding wisdom and wit who enjoyed life and provided joy to her friends and family. Services Sunday, Mt. Hebron Cemetery
 KAHN--Shirley F., on May 19th, 2004 in West Palm Beach, FL at age 81. She is survived by her beloved husband Chuck, their daughter Marguerite, their son Gene and his wife Connie. She was the devoted grandmother of Amanda and Jodi. Gifts in her memory may be sent to the ''Shirley Kahn Memori
 KELLER--Carole. Douglas Elliman mourns the loss of our friend and colleague, Carole Keller. Carole was a valued and successful sales agent who was recognized as a highly ethical and professional person. She will be remembered in our hearts as a true example of strong determination and a wil
 KREISLER--Margaret, age 92, on May 19. Wife of the late Kurt Kreisler, she lived in Pelham, NY before moving to Princeton, NJ in 1967. Funeral Mass 10AM Monday, May 24, St. James RC Church, Pennington, NJ. Interment private, Holy Sepulchre Cemetery, New Rochelle, NY       
 MANLEY--Marguerite, beloved wife of her late husband, Otto, mother of Edward, John and Frances and daughters-in-law Maya and Susanne, grandmother of Alan, Audrey and Thomas Fritton, Jr., Cynthia and Thomas Baldwin, Catherine, Chris and Sarah, and greatgrandmother of Esme Fritton, we mourn y
 WEISS--Dorrie. Much loved longtime English teacher at Bronx H.S. of Science. Later she became deeply involved in the NGO disarmament community at the UN, traveling the world to promote peace, and also co-edited the ''Metaphors Dictionary''. Married to Victor Weiss for 38 years. She is survi
 ADLER--Frances, 87, died May 20, 2004 in Coral Springs, FL. She was married to the late Jack Adler for 59 years. She is survived by her devoted daughter Gloria and her husband Michael; her loving son Paul and his wife Janet. She is also survived by four beautiful grandchildren, David, Debor
 FISHNER--Rose. 93. Beloved wife of the late Harry Fishner. Devoted sister of Shirley Levine. Loving aunt of Robert and Johanan Levine. Great aunt of Deidre. A lady of outstanding wisdom and wit who enjoyed life and provided joy to her friends and family. Services Sunday, Mt. Hebron Cemetery
 FRITZHAND -- Lillian. Died May 17, 2004 at the young age of 961/2. Devoted mother of the late Nicholas, she was also the much loved and loving mother of Martin and James; the adoring grandmother of Nicholas, Zachary and Jeremy; the favorite aunt of Amy, Lawrence and Yohko; great aunt of Ali
 GORLECHEN--Fannie, age 95, died peacefully and with dignity on May 21st, 2004. Loved by all who knew her, she devoted her life to her family. She was the loving wife of the late George, beloved mother of Erwin (Joan) and Norman (Elaine), adoring and adored grandmother of Steven (Denise), Je
 MORRIS--Persis Warren. Age 88, on May 21, 2004, at her residence in Falls Church, VA. Beloved wife of the late Stephen V.C. Morris. Surviving are her children, Helen Morris Scorsese, Christopher W. Morris and James M. Morris, four grandchildren and one sister. A funeral service will be held
 SEIDMON--Dorothy (nee Solomon), age 92, of NYC, formerly of Plainfield, NJ, on May 19, 2004. Widow of Dr. Edward Edgar Park Seidmon and former wife of the late Joseph L. Goldman. Mother of Beth Ann (Arthur) Nelkin and Dr. E. James (Nancy) Seidmon. Grandmother of David, Laura (Max), Eric and
 WEINBERG--Dale. October 21, 1948, died May 13, 2004. Beloved mother, friend and mentor. Predeceased by her parents, Milton and Joyce Glaser and her brother Neil, she is survived by her daughter Tracy Joyce Weinberg. The Director of Operation Enterprise since 2000, she joined that organizati
 WILLIAMS--Edith Huntington. Beloved wife of the late David Benton Williams, beloved mother of David, Deborah and Howard, and the beloved grandmother of David, Anne, Benjamin, Elizabeth, Emily, Margaret, Zoe and Jonathan died peacefully at Lenox Hill Hospital on May 18, 2004 which was the bi
 LEVY--Kathryn. On May 22, 2004, at the age of 103. She was always ''Kitty'' to her loving family and legion of friends. Wife of the late Dr. Abraham Levy, Kitty was active in the community. She is survived by three children, nine grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. Graveside servic
 M0ND - STERN -- Gloria. Be loved mother of Helene Levitsky and Allen Mond. Sister of Sidney Scheinberg and Estelle Schutzman. Grandmother of Jordana and Juliana. Gloria was a special kind of soul who always thought of her family first and above all. Gifts in Gloria's memory to Young Israel 
 SAVARD--Sister Judith. A Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary for 45 years, died May 23rd, at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was Associate Professor of art and art history at Marymount Manhattan College. She is survived by her sister Anne O'Connor of Harbor Springs, MI, and two brothers, Harold 
 SHAW--Mary (nee Hoffman). On May 20, 2004. Beloved wife of Tony, and mother of Charlotte. Survived by her parents, Frank and Barbara Hoffman, as well as her sister Kate Green and brother John Hoffman. Loving daughterin-law of Peter and Joyce Shaw. Sister-in-law of Ann Hoffman, Peter Green, 
 WALKER -- Ethel. Beloved mother of Alan and Myron. Grandmother, great-grandmother and dear sister to Ben and Bud Feder. She will be sorely missed.       
 GOLDEN--Jean R., 86, of Rio Rancho, died at home on Sunday May 23, 2004. Jean was born March 19, 1918 in Brooklyn, NY. She is survived by her children, Michael Golden, Sherry Horowitz; brother, Paul Reinstein; grandchildren, Amy Horowitz, Demian Golden, Todd Horowitz, Django Golden, Reid Go
 HOWARD--Catherine Eberhard. On May 24th, 2004 of Elmsford, NY. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Thomas W., parents Hon. Nicholas J. Eberhard, Bronx County Clerk, NYS Assemblyman and Legislator and Agnes Clark, brother Nicholas. Survived by six children, Thomas of Springfield VA, Sr. Cath
 KAUFMANN--Greta, on May 20, 2004. Our dear cousin died peacefully at age 95. She was the wife of Ernest Kaufmann, who predeceased her. We shall miss her. The Gorlin/Lassner Family       
 MARON--Jeanne. On May 18, 2004. Passed away prematurely at 85. We will always remember her warmth, artistic style and positive outlook. Loving mother to Judy and Harold, Jeffrey and Willa; grandmother to Karen and Jay, Gabriel and Asa; and great grandmother to Emma and Sophie.       
 MORRIS--Persis Warren. Age 88, on May 21, 2004, at her residence in Falls Church, VA. Beloved wife of the late Stephen V.C. Morris. Surviving are her children, Helen Morris Scorsese, Christopher W. Morris (residents of New York) and James M. Morris, four grandchildren and one sister. A fune
 NESI -- Carmella. Pelham Manor, NY died peacefully at home on May 24, 2004 at the age of 96. She was born January 13, 1908 in NYC to Nicholas and Francesca (Capozzoli) Nesi. She graduated from NY University and she earned a Master's degree in Education from Columbia University. She had been
 PATTON -- Jolanda Aprea, died at home in North Bergen, New Jersey on May 22, 2004. Her sense of vitality, strength and her unique artistry carried her through a life of extraordinary events both joyful and difficult. Born in Naples, Italy in 1911 into a family of painters and musicians. Gro
 ROTH--Florence, 95. Widow of Sol who died in 1949. Beloved by her children, Ellen and Paul Roth, Barbara and Jon Roth, and Judy & Howard Berkowitz. Loving grandmother of Stefanie & David, Jessica and Ben, and Sandra and Jamie. Adoring great grandmother of Amelia and Isabel. She lived her li
 SAVARD--Judith, RSHM. The Board of Trustees, the President, the Faculty, Administration, Students and Alumni of Marymount Manhattan College join the founders of the College, the Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary, in mourning the sudden passing of Judith Savard, RSHM, a precious colleagu
 YARUS--Blanche, widow of Walter, died Saturday, May 22. Survived by her son Stuart; daughters Carol Tillman (Israel) and Debbie Rosenberg; sisters Frances Sherman and Elizabeth Small Feldman, both of NY; five grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. Funeral took place in Southampton, PA  
 CUTLER--Deirdre (nee Maloney). Age 44, of Armonk, NY on May 24, 2004. Soulmate of Wayne, loving mother of Shaynna, Brendan and Wesley, beloved daughter of the late Robert and Virgina Maloney. Visitation at Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Boston Post Rd, Rye, NY on Thursday, May 27, 2 to 4 and 7 t
 FRANK--Rose of New York City on May 23, 2004. Beloved mother of Hettie, son-in-law Frederick Kahn, grandmother of Nicholas Kahn and beloved wife of 53 years of the late Andre. Born in Lodz, Poland, survived the Holocaust and emigrated to Israel, then to Montreal and finally to the United St
 HOWARD--Catherine Eberhard. On May 24th, 2004 of Elmsford, NY. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Thomas W., parents Hon. Nicholas J. Eberhard, Bronx County Clerk, NYS Assemblyman and Legislator and Agnes Clark, brother Nicholas. Survived by six children, Thomas of Springfield VA, Sr. Cath
 KAUFMANN -- Helen, died May 24, 2004 after a long and courageous fight with cancer. She was praised by her many associates for her keen vision and wisdom, her accomplishments and kindness. She was a loyal friend and had much compassion for those around us. She was the granddaughter of the f
 MORRIS--Persis Warren. Age 88, on May 21, 2004, at her residence in Falls Church, VA. Beloved wife of the late Stephen V.C. Morris. Surviving are her children, Helen Morris Scorsese, Christopher W. Morris (residents of New York) and James M. Morris, four grandchildren and one sister. A fune
 SULIMOVICI--Sorel. On May 24. Loving father of Diana Pessin and her husband Brian. Cherished grandfather of Luke. Beloved brother of Ritta Sulimovici and also survived by Rena Sanders. Funeral services Thursday 9:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., corner of 81st St. Interment to 
 CUTLER--Deirdre (nee Maloney). Age 44, of Armonk, NY on May 24, 2004. Soulmate of Wayne, loving mother of Shaynna, Brendan and Wesley, beloved daughter of the late Robert and Virgina Maloney. Visitation at Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Boston Post Rd, Rye, NY on Thursday, May 27, 2 to 4 and 7 t
 PARKER--Alice, 80, died unexpectedly in Exeter, NH on May 22. Widow of Gerald Parker, survived by daughters Katharine, Alison and Caroline. Born in Staten Island, she served as a WAVE during WW II, graduated from Wellesley College and lived more than 40 years in Old Greenwich, CT. Service J
 PRICE -- Gertrude (Trudy). Mother of Barbara, Peter, sister to Harry, grandmother of Suzanne, Steven, great grandmother of Benjamin. Services will be Friday, May 28, 2004, 11:15am, at Riverside Memorial Chapel on 76th and Amsterdam Avenue. PRICE--Trudy. The members and staff of Elmw
 SANTOBELLO--Emma T. Devoted wife of the late August L. Loving mother of daughters Connie & Louella, and son August, Jr. Died peacefully on May 25, 2004. Emma often brought back memories of her childhood with warm and entertaining stories about her family life. She will be missed by her surv
 Kamala Markandaya, the novelist who helped forge the image of India for American readers in schools and book clubs from the 1950's through the 1970's, died on May 16 at her home in London. She was 79. The cause was kidney failure, said Kim Oliver, her daughter and only immediate sur
 ARNOWITZ--Janece of Boca Raton, FLorida died Wednesday at the age of 68, surrounded by her family. Her husband of 40 years, William Arnowitz, predeceased her in 1995. She is survived by her four children, Deborah Ashe, Holly Arnowitz, Sherman Arnowitz (Pam), and Daniel Arnowitz (Susan), and
 BLUMBERG--Kay Simmon. Born in Berlin in 1909, came to New York in 1926. Graduated from NYU. Worked first as a German translator, then, after studying with Berenice Abbott, became a professional photographer, specializing in children but picturing whatever else came before her lens, in her w
 HERTZBERG -- Lilian. May 26, 2004. Dr. Diane E. Meier, Director of the Lilian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute, Dr. Albert L. Siu, Ellen and Howard C. Katz Chairman's Chair of Brookdale Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development Mount Sinai School of Medicine, members of
 HERTZBERG--Ruth Lilian Steiner. Born in Vienna, Austria; died in New York City on May 26, 2004. As per her request and specific instructions, cremation and scattering are private.       
 KOPELMAN--Jean R. Of New York City, on May 26, 2004. Daughter of Dorothy Ziegler Rapaport and Edmund Rapaport. Prede ceased by her two husbands Alvin L. Hollander, Jr. and Melvin Winn Kopelman. Survived by her sister Grace Butler, of Palo Alto, CA. and her children Alvin L. Hollander, III (
 URBAN--Sarah (Sally) on May 26, 2004. Beloved daughter of the late Ida and Louis Bursky. Cherished wife of Martin Urban, of blessed memory. Loving mother of Goldy and Arthur Fried and Lois and Gerald Kirsh. Cherished grandmother of Lisa and Michael Greenberg, Steven and Robin Fried and Roy 
 FERTIG--Florence R. nee Reiff, 68, of East Hampton and NYC, on May 27, 2004. She won the admiration and respect of all her colleagues in the advertising world. Beloved wife of Samuel. Loving mother of Beth Fertig of NYC. Dear sister of Eleanor Chandler of Great Barrington, MA. Also survived
 KOPELMAN--Jean R. Of New York City, on May 26, 2004. Daughter of Dorothy Ziegler Rapaport and Edmund Rapaport. Prede ceased by her two husbands Alvin L. Hollander, Jr. and Melvin Winn Kopelman. Survived by her sister Grace Butler, of Palo Alto, CA. and her children Alvin L. Hollander, III (
 NEUGASS--Hilde. 92, an optimist throughout her long life, who loved her family and many friends. Graveside services Sunday, 1:30 pm, BethEl Cemetery, Paramus, NJ, block 24, line 3.       
 SUBIN--Charlotte. The Semel Society records with sorrow the passing in her 97th year of Charlotte Subin, our esteemed member for 67 years. Martin I. Semel, President       
 URBAN--Sarah (Sally) on May 26, 2004. Beloved daughter of the late Ida and Louis Bursky. Cherished wife of Martin Urban, of blessed memory. Loving mother of Goldy and Arthur Fried and Lois and Gerald Kirsh. Cherished grandmother of Lisa and Michael Greenberg, Steven and Robin Fried and Roy 
 BLUMBERG--Kay Simmon. Born in Berlin in 1909, came to New York in 1926. Graduated from NYU. Worked first as a German translator, then, after studying with Berenice Abbott, became a professional photographer, specializing in children but picturing whatever else came before her lens, in her w
 GANZELL--Iris, died May 28th. We mourn the passing of our beloved Iris. Loving wife of Steve, adored mother of Erica and Sanford, motherin-law of Maribeth, grandmother of Jolie, loving sister of Jerry Wolkoff, cherished aunt of Jessica, Matthew and Steven Wolkoff, sister-in-law of Sandy Wol
 HERTZBERG -- Lilian. May 26, 2004. Dr. Diane E. Meier, Director of the Lilian and Benjamin Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute, Dr. Albert L. Siu, Ellen and Howard C. Katz Chairman's Chair of Brookdale Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development Mount Sinai School of Medicine, members of
 KIRSCHNER--Ethyl Kuhl on May 27th, 2004, age 82. Wife of George, mother of Carl Kirschner and Sandy Reider. Grandmother of Emily, Jessie, Jonathan, Valerie and Amanda. Sister of Toby Zak. Born in Brooklyn, NY she graduated Hunter College and began her working career in the Brooklyn Naval Ya
 KOPELMAN--Jean R. Of New York City, on May 26, 2004. Daughter of Dorothy Ziegler Rapaport and Edmund Rapaport. Prede ceased by her two husbands Alvin L. Hollander, Jr. and Melvin Winn Kopelman. Survived by her sister Grace Butler, of Palo Alto, CA. and her children Alvin L. Hollander, III (
 KURZ--Adele J. On May 28, 2004, peacefully in her 100th year surrounded by her family. Services Sunday, May 30, 12:00 noon at ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers please make donations in her name to the Kerry Campaign.       
 NEUGASS--Hilde. 92, an optimist throughout her long life, who loved her family and many friends. Graveside services Sunday, 1:30 pm, BethEl Cemetery, Paramus, NJ, block 24, line 3.       
 RAE--Barbara. 76, of Edgewater, FL, passed away on Thursday, May 20, 2004. Born in Perth Amboy, NJ, she and her family lived in Ho-HoKus, NJ for many years before moving to Florida in 1974. Barbara is predeceased by her husband John ''Jack'' Rae, and is survived by sons Tom Rae and John Rae
 ROTH--Florence. 95, Died May 24, 2004. Widow of Sol who died in 1949. Beloved by her children, Ellen and Paul Roth, Barbara and Jon Roth and Judy and Howard Berkowitz. Loving grandmother of Stefanie and David, Roger and Jenny Lyn, Jessica and Ben and Sandra and Jamie. Adoring great-grandmot
 SCHRAGER--Anne Connolly Carroll. Born in New York City in 1919, died Thursday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany, NY after a brief illness. She graduated from Barnard College in 1941, and was a member of the staff of the American Embassy in Rome between 1945 and 1950. She worked for the New 
 SYMES--Margaret Gill. On May 24, 2004, in her 96th year. Formerly of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn; Tarpon Springs, FL, and Manchester Village, VT. Wife of the late William (1994). Beloved mother of Mary Symes-Leith, Nancy Symes Hersom and Kathleen Symes Junsch. Also survived by seven grandchildren a
 TOLBERT--Elinor. On May 25, 2004. Adored wife of the late Jack, beloved mother of Jennifer and Page, cherished grandmother of Christopher, loving great-grandmother of Beatrix and Willa, admired aunt of many nieces and nephews. Courageous servant of her country in the Pacific during World Wa
 URBAN--Sally. Fifth Avenue Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member and extends heartfelt sympathy to the bereaved family. Yaakov Y. Kermaier, Rabbi Ira Leon Rennert, Chairman J. Ezra Merkin, President URBAN--Sarah (Sally) on May 26, 2004. Beloved da
 WILLIAMS--Edith Huntington. Beloved wife of the late David Benton Williams, beloved mother of David, Deborah and Howard, and the beloved grandmother of David, Anne, Benjamin, Elizabeth, Emily, Margaret, Zoe and Jonathan died peacefully at Lenox Hill Hospital on May 18, 2004 which was the bi
 MARAVEL -- Patricia. On May 29, 2004. Beloved mother of Jessica Maravel-Piccolo and Alex Maravel-Piccolo and fiance Margarita Christoforou. Devoted daughter of James and the late Lillian. Dear sister of Alexis and Joseph DiGrazia. Loving aunt of Marisa and Michael Milo and Christina DiGrazi
 NEUMAN--Ruth. In her 97th year. Devoted wife of the late Hersch Neuman. Cherished daughter of Abraham and Taube Schlesinger, sister of Leo, sister-in-law of Erna and aunt of Ilsa, who all perished in the Holocaust. Beloved mother of Elfie and Mark Fisch, Trudy and Abraham (Toddie) Levine, a
 RAE--Barbara. 76, of Edgewater, FL, passed away on Thursday, May 20, 2004. Born in Perth Amboy, NJ, she and her family lived in Ho-HoKus, NJ for many years before moving to Florida in 1974. Barbara is predeceased by her husband John ''Jack'' Rae, and is survived by sons Tom Rae and John Rae
 TOLBERT--Elinor. On May 25, 2004. Adored wife of the late Jack, beloved mother of Jennifer and Page, cherished grandmother of Christopher, loving great-grandmother of Beatrix and Willa, admired aunt of many nieces and nephews. Courageous servant of her country in the Pacific during World Wa
