 ADAMS-Laurel H. July 30, 2001. Beloved wife of Francis. Loving sister of James Haring. Adored aunt of numerous nieces and nephews. She was a devoted nurse who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Friday, A
 BROWN-Doris age 72, of Wyckoff, NJ, on July 31, 2001. Survived by her children Karen Midyet of Golden, CO, Arlene Brown of Wyckoff, and Richard of Saddle River, NJ. Sister of Stanley Katz. Adored grandchildren Marisa and Justin Midyet, Marc and Jason Graziano & Sarah & David Brown. Services
 GLICKMAN-Emily. Age 70, of Cranbury, N.J. passed away Monday, July 30, 2001 at her home. Born in Manhattan, N.Y., she resided in Cranbury since 1983. Mrs. Glickman was an active facilitator with the Child Assault Prevention Program, Middlesex County Chapter. She visited schools and presente
 GREENE-Joyce W. Died at home in NYC, July 27, 2001. Beloved wife of Arthur B., mother of Jonathan M., and mother-in-law of Denise. She was one of the greatest ladies ever; she was respected for her wit and generosity. She was a friend and caretaker of all animals. Joyce was born in England,
 KAHN-Ruth S. November 23, 1913July 30, 2001. Died peacefully at her home Monday surrounded by family and friends after a valiant struggle with cancer at age 87. She is survived by her daughter Geraldine Karetsky, grandchildren Jeffrey, Robin, Stephen and Anne Kahn and Andrew and Robert Kare
 STONE-Florence Ruth. On July 30, 2001, at age 78. Survived by her children Philip, Roberta and Andrea. Adoring grandmother of Alex. Loving sister of Linda Dietz, Paul Stone and Mark Stone. Service today, 1:30 PM, at the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue, Manhattan.       
 TARTALSKY-Deborah. Of Brandon VT and formerly of Jersey City NJ died Monday, July 30 at the age of 100 after a long and fruitful life. Her late husband, Samuel, was a Jersey City attorney. She is survived by daughter Lea (Ruth) Sneider of NYC and son Jeremiah Tarr of Rutland VT, and by nine
 TAYLOR-Victoria (nee Devoe). Died July 30 in her home in Rumson, at age 76. Beloved wife of the late Francis. Devoted mother of Gregory, Roderick, Harold and Victoria. Memorial service will be held August 3 at 10am at St. George's-By-The River in Rumson.       
 TURKEL-Minda. Passed away on Sunday, July 29, 2001. She had been a psychiatric social worker at Jacobi Hospital and had a private practice as well. She was a graduate of NYU and continued to be active in alumni affairs. She leaves behind a large group of family and friends who were devoted 
 Elizabeth Yates, a writer whose books, many of them for children, were more than enough to fill a library shelf, died on Sunday at a hospice in Concord, N.H. A resident of Peterborough, N.H., she was 95. Ms. Yates published her first book in 1938 and wrote more than 50 others into t
 ADAMS-Laurel H. July 30, 2001. Beloved wife of Francis. Loving sister of James Haring. Adored aunt of numerous nieces and nephews. She was a devoted nurse who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Friday, A
 BEHR-Hilda. Born July 9, 1902 in Limersheim, Germany; died July 29, 2001 at Anchin Pavilion, Sarasota, FL. Beloved aunt, grandaunt and great-aunt. She was industrious throughout life and was very devoted to family. She was a lifetime member of the Great Neck chapter of Hadassah, where she w
 ESSEX-Marie L. Parsons School of Design of New School University mourns the passing of Marie L. Essex, mentor to the stars of fashion design. Marie L. Essex died Friday July 27, 2001 after a fiveyear battle with pancreatic cancer. Ms. Essex was a member of the Parsons family for over 40 yea
 GOOTMAN-Phyllis M., Ph.D. The Faculty of the School of Graduate Studies, SUNY Downstate Medical Center at Brooklyn, mourn the sudden passing of their eminent Professor of Physiology and Pharmacology. Dr. Phyllis Gootman served the research and teaching mission of the Graduate School with di
 GREENE-Joyce W. Died at home in NYC, July 27, 2001. Beloved wife of Arthur B., mother of Jonathan M., and mother-in-law of Denise. She was one of the greatest ladies ever; she was respected for her wit and generosity. She was a friend and caretaker of all animals. Joyce was born in England,
 GRUBMAN - Yvette. Devoted mother of Elizabeth and Jennifer. Beloved daughter of Harold and Helen. Cherished niece of Rose. She was the kindest and most loyal friend. We will never forget her thoughtfulness, selflessness and compassion. She taught us what it meant to fight and she will alway
 GRUDKO-Lillian (nee Wolfe) on July 31, surrounded by beloved family. Her sweetness, keen mind and passion for the arts touched all who knew her. You will be with us always in our hearts. Donations to New York League for Hard of Hearing. Services Thursday, Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flat
 GUARD-Sarah (''Sally''). Sally died peacefully July 28 at St. Vincent's Hospital with her husband, David Burger, at her side. Their daughters, Emma and Cameron, were at home nearby with Sally's mother, Gretchen, and her aunt, Sarah Ballard. Born January 26, 1963, near Sydney, Australia, Sal
 HANLEY-Marjorie. Of Scarsdale for 52 years, died in Jupiter, Fla., July 29. Survivors include Richard, Patrick, Philip, Lawrence, & Claire Hanley-Eckert, M.D. Husband, William J., predeceased her on February 16, 1998. Donations to Church of the Little Flower of Browning, Mt 59417       
 HOPKINS-B. Smith. The Physicians and Staff of the Division of Infectious Diseases and the Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons wish to express our heartfelt sorrow and condolences to our esteemed colleague Alice Prince and her family on the passin
 MULLER-Silvia A. Widow of Dr. Erwin T. Muller, died on Wednesday morning July 25, 2001. She is survived by her nephew William Proops of Edmonds, WA, by her grandniece and nephews, her step-grandchildren, adopted family and a host of others who loved her dearly. A true lady, she was always c
 SAUNDERS-Agnes K., a naturalist and educator known to her family and friends as Tib, died peacefully of heart failure on July 30, 2001, at her home in Lynbrook, NY. She was 94. At her death, she was with her son, Paul Saunders, and her daughter, Marcia Dolan. She is also survived by another
 SHANAHAN-Anita, 79. Of St. Petersburg, FL, formerly of Flushing, NY, died July 27th, 2001. Born in Bronx, NY, she was an insurance adjuster for Home Life in Manhattan. Survivors include a sister, Patricia Shanahan, a companion, Eloise Cooke, 4 nieces and nephews and six grand-nieces and nep
 SPORN-Muriel K. On August 1, 2001, beautiful in her 73rd year. Beloved mother of Robert and Carolyn, wife of Arthur, aunt of Michael and Sarah, sister-in-law of Deborah, and beloved by her friends. As a psychotherapist she was instrumental in helping many of her patients, even in her brief 
 WASSERMAN-Edythe. August 1. Beloved wife of the late Milton Wasserman. Loving mother of Joan Dodge. Cherished grandmother of Andrew Aronson and great grandmother of Noah and Jesse. Devoted sister of Gerald Rogers. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service private.    
 Deborah Ann Cohen, a New York marketing executive and writer whose battle with breast cancer inspired her to assist other victims of the disease, died Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 39 and lived on the Upper West Side and in Rowayton, Conn. Ms. Cohen, a n
 Lillian Kiesler, an artist, art patron and the widow of the sculptor and avant-garde architect Frederick Kiesler, died on July 25 in Manhattan. She was 91. Ms. Kiesler studied painting with Hans Hofmann in New York in the 1930's and was introduced to her future husband by the artist
 ADAMS-Laurel H. July 30, 2001. Beloved wife of Francis. Loving sister of James Haring. Adored aunt of numerous nieces and nephews. She was a devoted nurse who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Friday, A
 SAFIRSTEIN-Eliot J. (E.J.) of Los Angeles, formerly of Hartsdale, NY. Beloved husband to Liz Safirstein Leshin, loving son of Jack & Sue Safirstein, devoted brother to Julie Massey, and caring uncle of her twin sons Scott and David. Funeral Sunday 12 PM, Woodlands Community Temple, 50 Worth
 SAUNDERS-Agnes K., a naturalist and educator known to her family and friends as Tib, died peacefully of heart failure on July 30, 2001, at her home in Lynbrook, NY. She was 94. At her death, she was with her son, Paul Saunders, and her daughter, Marcia Dolan. She is also survived by another
 SENATORE-Carrie. On July 31, 2001, cherished sister of Peggy, Marie, and Jack. Loving sister-inlaw of Henry Palumbo. Beloved aunt of Michael, Joseph, John, Linda, and Nancy. Also survived by six great nieces and nephews. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday 10 A.M. at Saint Jean Baptiste Churc
 WILSON-Vivian Deborah. A retired law professor, died suddenly and unexpectedly at her home in Mill Valley, CA. on June 13, 2001. Known as ''Debi'' to many of her friends, she taught law at Hastings College of Law from 1975 until her retirement in 1993. She was born in New York City on Septe
 BURKE-Estelle (nee Levy) of Williamstown, MA. Died August 2. She was the widow of Frederick N. Burke. Born in NYC April 8, 1915. Daughter of the late Louis and Agusta Levy. Attended schools Brooklyn, NY and graduated from Lincoln High School. She received an honorary degree from Morgan Stat
 GILLARY-Sylvia Rita (nee Levy). Age 89. Survived by her husband Leo and many nieces, nephews and friends. Impressario of Jericho, noted piano teacher, owner of The Gillary Gallery, and founder of the Judith Grayson Memorial Scholarship Fund. Memorial services will be announced at a later da
 KARP-Myrtle. The entire National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the passing of our beloved colleague, a woman of spirit and fortitude, who served on the National Board since 1950, was a former National Vice President from 1953 to 1956 and was Chairman of Hadassah's West Coast Board. We ext
 RAVICH-Ruth (nee Wohl). Age 80, passed away at her home after a long illness on Friday, August 3rd. Beloved wife of the late Robert A. Ravich, MD. She is survived by her sisters, Jean Zamore and Anne Gold, children Carol and Martin Kempner, William and Elaine Ravich, grandchildren Katie and
 WARFIELD-Rosalind Topol, age 84, passed away on Wednesday, August 1st. Mrs. Warfield was survived by: her son Larry Topol; daughter and son-in-law, Nancy and Robert Denberg; granddaughters, Betsey and Jackie; and sister, Marion Heckler. She had many nieces and nephews who loved her. Gravesi
 ABRAMOWITZ - Joan Elaine (Gersch), of East Brunswick, NJ, died peacefully in her home Wednesday surrounded by loved ones after a courageous battle with cancer. She was 67. A strong, intelligent woman with an indomitable spirit, she provided the glue to her immediate and extended families. M
 BELL-Anita Albright. Of Bedford, NY, died on August 1st, at the age of 91. Mrs. Bell was born on April 1st, 1910, in Ravenna, Ohio, and attended Laurel School and Marot College. She was a widow of Gilbert E.O. Bell, who died in 1988. A longtime resident of Bedford, Mrs. Bell was a member of
 COHEN-Minna. The members and Board of Governors of Mamaroneck Beach and Yacht Club express their deepest sympathies and love to Marc Cohen -past Commodore of Mamaroneck Yacht Club, their lovely children Jen and Justin, and the entire Cohen family on their grievous loss. Minna was a most act
 JACOBI-Ana Marie. ''56ish'' of New York died August 2, 2001, in Washington, CT. She is survived by her dear friends Howard, Brook, Karen, Ilsa, Antonia, Carol, Judy, Micheal, Bill, Giovanni, Irene, Richard, Irene, Jason, Norma, Bernie, Joyce, George, Bebe, Peter, Joan, Dorothy, Roger, Barba
 KAYE-Violette Wolfgang. Born in Brooklyn, November 2, 1918, died July 30, 2001, in the Jewish Home and Hospital in the Bronx. Beloved mother of Roni Natov & Melanie Kaye/Kantrowitz; grandmother of Jonathan Natov; sister of George Wolfgang. Dancer, self-educated reader, stained glass artist,
 LEIBMAN-Rita S. Barbara and Benjamin Zucker, Pam Greenberg, Adam Greenberg, Margie and Mark Peppercorn, Dan Peppercorn, Jeffrey, Amanda, and Elizabeth Peppercorn mourn the loss of Aunt Rita. We will forever miss her empathy, wisdom, keen sense of humor, enormous concern for others, and fier
 RAVICH-Ruth (nee Wohl). Age 80, passed away at her home after a long illness on Friday, August 3rd. Beloved wife of the late Robert A. Ravich, MD. She is survived by her sisters, Jean Zamore and Anne Gold, children Carol and Martin Kempner, William and Elaine Ravich, grandchildren Katie and
 RAVNER-Wendie. On August 4, 2001. Beloved wife of Harvey. Devoted mother of Marc and Samantha. Loving sister of Nancy. Cherished daughter of Marcia and Leonard Zigelbaum. She lived life with zest and joy and left us remembering her strength and dignity in these last months. Services Tuesday
 REGAN-Robin A. Died peacefully at home. Beloved daughter of the late Kathleen and John Nicholas Regan. Loving sister of Joan McGivern, Virginia Coleman, Ellen McCluskey, John Regan, Winston Regan and Andrew Regan. Aunt of Owen, Joan, Thomas, Morgan, Tara, Chauncey, Deering, Sarah, John, Ale
 SCHMIDT-Elsie B. On August 1. Adored, beloved by all, her daughter, Gertrude; her son-inlaw, Murray; her grandchildren, Jeremy and Karen, and greatgrandchildren, Benjamin, Lisa, Jake and Jed; family and friends.       
 SILVESTRI-Mary E. August 2, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Pasquale. Loving mother of Gino Silvestri and Marie-Louise Hekel. Grandmother of John. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st Street, Thursday, Augus
 YOKELL-Frances Tishman. Beloved wife of the late Leon, devoted mother of Judith Jacobs, loving grandmother of Brad and Lee Jacobs. She was deeply loved and respected by all who knew her and will be greatly missed. Funeral private.       
 CANTOR-Betty L. Died August 4, 2001. Survived by her sister Sophia Sherman, sister-in-law Selma Cantor, nieces and nephews and her very special friends.       
 GOLDMAN-Anna. Passed away peacefully surrounded by family on August 3. Beloved mother and mother-in-law of Grace and Ted Fuchs, grandmother of Diane Fuchs, Merrill Lee Fuchs and Rebecca Fuchs-Stengel, great-grandmother of Jesse and Raffe FuchsSimon and Scott and Eric FuchsStengel, and wife 
 HEELAN-Mary. On July 31, 2001. Predeceased by her loving parents Patrick and Catherine Heelan and her devoted aunt Ellen Forde and fond cousin Dorothy Curll. Survived by several cousins including Helen Kenneally, Lillan Lenz and Ethel Deeran. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 KLECKNER-Jane Anderson. Distinguished interior decorator, member of the Decorators Club, died at the age of 104. She will be greatly missed by all who knew her.       
 RAVNER-Wendie. On August 4, 2001. Beloved wife of Harvey. Devoted mother of Marc and Samantha. Loving sister of Nancy. Cherished daughter of Marcia and Leonard Zigelbaum. She lived life with zest and joy and left us remembering her strength and dignity in these last months. Services Tuesday
 REGAN-Robin A. Died peacefully at home. Beloved daughter of the late Kathleen and John Nicholas Regan. Loving sister of Joan McGivern, Virginia Coleman, Ellen McCluskey, John Regan, Winston Regan and Andrew Regan. Aunt of Owen, Joan, Thomas, Morgan, Tara, Chauncey, Deering, Sarah, John, Ale
 SHERMAN-Jay Susan. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Newton, MA, and NYC, on August 4. Beloved wife of Philip Abrams. Devoted sister of John F. Sherman III. Services at the Sherman Family Mausoleum of Temple Israel of Boston Cemetery on August 7, at 12 noon. Jay Susan Sherman received a Master
 SILVESTRI-Mary E. August 2, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Pasquale. Loving mother of Gino Silvestri and Marie-Louise Hekel. Grandmother of John. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st Street, Thursday, Augus
 VASAVADA-Sadguna Chandulal. Passed away on August 1, 2001. Beloved mother of Kamendu (Chicago), Purnendu (River Falls, WI), Dr. Balendu (Scotch Plains, NJ), Harshendu (Saugus, CA), and Mayura (Toms River, NJ) and grandmother of Dr. Reena, Neel, Hemal, Jasmine, Natasha, Zubin and Nisu. She w
 THERE is no saying no to Caroline H. Newhouse. But you wouldn't know it upon meeting the matriarch of the Newhouse  family in the formal sitting room of her Park Avenue apartment. She sits on a plush sofa, a well-coiffed little woman of 91, ever so sweet, so demure. But don't let he
 CLAUSS-Pamela Heavey died peacefully at home on August 5, 2001 after a courageous battle with cancer. Mrs. Clauss, who lived in Manhattan, was the loving and devoted wife of Dr. Roy H. Clauss and the beloved and devoted stepmother of his three children Roy Stuart and his wife Kathryn, Eliot
 DERASKA-Norma Nasso. 62 of Rumson, died at home on Saturday. Mrs. Deraska was a Library Associate for Brookdale Community College for 22 years. Born in Brooklyn, NY, she lived in Matawan for 11 years before moving to Rumson 20 years ago. Survived by her husband Donald J. Sr., son Dr. Donald
 FRIEDMAN-Helen D. Died August 6, 2001 at the age of 95. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Monroe. She is survived by several distant relatives. Interment will be private in accordance with her wishes.       
 HEELAN-Mary. On July 31, 2001. Predeceased by her loving parents Patrick and Catherine Heelan and her devoted aunt Ellen Forde and fond cousin Dorothy Curll. Survived by several cousins including Helen Kenneally, Lillan Lenz and Ethel Deeran. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 MEYER-Ruth A., of Hartsdale, NY, on August 5. Wife of the late Peter Meyer. Dear mother of Philip, G. Andrew, and Dorothy Meyer. Sister of Hubert Aronson. Grandmother of Christina Meyer, Brooks and Casey Brecker. Funeral service Wednesday, 12:30 PM, at the Chapel in the Woods of Congregatio
 MURPHY-Nancy (Pearsall), 53, died August 4, 2001, peacefully at her home in Croton-on-Hudson after a courageous battle with inflammatory breast cancer. She was born December 21, 1947 in Portland, Oregon to Douglas (deceased) and Inga Pearsall. Besides her mother, she is survived by her husb
 RAVNER - Wendie. Throughout your courageous battle you displayed dignity, character, and grace. We will always remember you with love. Our deepest sympathy to the Ravner and Zigelbaum families. Joanne and Michael, Jeffrey, Robert and Brian RAVNER-Wendie. Your courage and dignity was
 REGAN-Robin A. Died peacefully at home. Beloved daughter of the late Kathleen and John Nicholas Regan. Loving sister of Joan McGivern, Virginia Coleman, Ellen McCluskey, John Regan, Winston Regan and Andrew Regan. Aunt of Owen, Joan, Thomas, Morgan, Tara, Chauncey, Deering, Sarah, John, Ale
 STRAUSS-Warren B. Of Wainscott, N.Y. on August 5, 2001. Beloved husband of Corinne (Soikin). Loving father of Monika and Peter, and David Weinberg. Also survived by two grandchildren Justin and Tristan. Services Tuesday August 7, 12 Noon at The Jewish Center of the Hamptons, Woods Lane, Eas
 TASH-Esther. Passed away August 3, 2001, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Queens, NY. Loving wife of David, to whom she was married almost 62 years. Adored mother of Martin (Arlene) Tash, Harriet (Arnold) Rosenberg, and Betty Tash. Cherished grandmother of Nathan Tash, Faye Tash, Jill (Bryan)
 ANNER-Winifred McGrath, 90 years old, died peacefully at home on August 7, 2001. Mrs. Anner was born in the Bronx to William and Catherine McGrath. She married John L. Anner, Jr. in October 1932, and he died December 26, 1937. She is survived by her daughters Kathryn and husband Marvin Gold
 HANNAWAY-Dorothy. Died on August 5, 2001. Born July 28, 1921, in Trenton, New Jersey, daughter of Carrie Hand Winter and James E. Winter. She graduated from Ursinus College in 1942 with a B.S. degree, and received her R.N. from Jefferson Hospital, Phila, PA in 1945. Dorothy is survived by h
 KRISTEL-Mina. The family of Mina Kristel announces her passing on August 6, at the age of 102. She will be missed by all members of the family.       
 Dame Dorothy Tutin, one of the most versatile and admired of British actresses, died on Monday in London, where she lived. She was 71. She had been suffering from leukemia, said her agent, Michael Whitehall. During her long and rich career, Ms. Tutin played almost all of Sha
 Maureen Reagan, the outspoken daughter of former President Ronald Reagan who was often at odds with her father's policies, died yesterday at her home in Sacramento. She was 60, and had suffered a recurrence of melanoma, a skin cancer with which she was first diagnosed in 1996 and that, afte
 Nora Sayre, a film critic and essayist best known for her commentary on the cultural effects of the cold war -- died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was emphysema, said Mary Sayre Haverstock, her cousin. As
 CORPER-Anne Hollingbery. Recently retired antique dealer, died on August 7, 2001 at home in Chappaqua, NY. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. Raised in Glencoe, IL, Mrs. Corper is survived by her husband, Philip L. Corper, their four children, Deborah Corper, Douglas Corper, Thom
 FINEGAN-Marie. On August 7, 2001. Born in Robbinsdale, MN on January 16, 1919. Served as a Lt. Jr. Grade Naval Nurse during WWII. She taught anesthesia at St. Mary's Hospital, Duluth. Served as a Nurse Anesthetist at Queens General Hospital for 35 years. Loving wife of the late Louis A. Fin
 GRANBY-Julia Morris. August 2, 2001, at New York City, NY. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin S. Granby; dear mother of Joseph R. and Sydney Morris of New York, NY; aunt of John M. and Rona Kahn of Framingham, MA; loving grandmother of Patricia Backer of Chicago, IL; cousin of Adele B. Gidwi
 SAMPSON-Elizabeth. Died suddenly at home, June 21, 2001, at age 57. A graduate of Barnard College, Columbia University. A memorial service at St. Paul the Apostle Church, 415 West 59th Street, on Saturday, August 11, at 11:30 AM. Donations in her memory to the library of your choice-or buy 
 VON JAGLINSKY-Anita A., age 78, of St. James on August 6, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Bogislav, loving mother of Suzanne Toufayan, Sandra Brown, Barbara Wasek and Peter Von Jaglinsky, cherished grandmother of thirteen and great-grandmother of five. Anita was educated at the Lexington Ave
 ZUCKER-Sylvia J. August 7, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Theodore and Elliot. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan, Deborah, Kevin and Hartlee. Devoted sister of Frances Strauss and the late Irene Rogen. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service 
 ALTCHEK-Beatrice. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Beatrice Altchek, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Edgar Altchek, M.D., Attending Physician in the Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery. To Dr. Altchek and the
 BAILIN-Florence. Of Beechurst, NY, 81. Beloved wife of the late William Bailin. Loving sister of Abe. Cherished sister-in-law of Terri and Bea. Adored aunt of David, Susan, Perry, Deborah and the late Michael, and great aunt (and a great aunt she was) of Jennie, Joanna and Benjamin. Died on
 GREENBAUM-Judith. The Yeshiva University family mourns the tragic murder of a gifted student at our Azrieli Graduate School of Jewish Education and Administration, who died in the Palestinian terroist bomb attack in the center of Jerusalem yesterday. Her devotion to chinuch and the advancem
 KOVACS-Hanna Nagy. Born October 31, 1919 in Szeged, Hungary. Died August 4, 2001, peacefully at home in Pasadena, CA. She survived the depression and WWII in Hungary, but fled Hungary with her family in 1956 during the Hungarian Revolution. She received a Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry in 1945,
 ZUCKER-Sylvia J. August 7, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Theodore and Elliot. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan, Deborah, Kevin, Hartlee and Josh. Devoted sister of Frances Strauss and the late Irene Rogen. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Se
 SUTTER-Beatrice Weinberger. August 10, 1992. Loved and remembered by all who met her or were taught by her. Her Family       
 ROBINSON-Grace (nee Crispinelli) of Elmsford and White Plains, NY. Good and loving wife of Frank, cherished daughter of Florence and Adam Crispinelli and beloved niece of Joan Crispinelli, Marion Rainaldi and Clara Rosner. Grace's untimely passing on August 9, 2001 has left her cousins and 
 GOLDFINGER CRINGAN-Bonnie Jill, 46, died on August 9th, 2001 in California after a valiant four year battle with breast cancer. Formerly of Rye Brook, NY. She is survived by her beloved sons Jonathan and Jacob, husband Gary, cherised sister Beth Goldfinger Signer and husband Jeffrey, stepbr
 GREENBAUM-Judith. The Yeshiva University family mourns the tragic murder of a gifted student at our Azrieli Graduate School of Jewish Education and Administration, who died in the Palestinian terrorist bomb attack in the center of Jerusalem. Her devotion to chinuch and the advancement of Is
 HINKLE-Gertrude ''Chica''. On August 9, 2001 at age 86. Beloved wife of the late John. Loving mother of Eleanor Shunas. Dear sister of Maria ''Mia'' Welch and the late Eleanor ''Tita'' Biggs. Also survived by many nieces, nephews, friends and colleagues. Interment private. Memorial service 
 KRUGER-Shirley G. On August 10, 2001. Loving sister of Stanley, dear sister-in-law of Alice, aunt of Susan, Steven and Joshua, greataunt of Anna and Max, Jessica and David. She will be missed by her colleagues at Vantage Consulting Company. Service Monday 1 PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Str
 ROD-Miriam. On August 7, 2001 at age 86, formerly of Bayside, NY, died at her home in Las Vegas, NV. Beloved wife of the late Irving Rod. Wonderful mother of Susan Graham, Jonathan and the late Michael, daughters-in-law Donna and Lois. Wonderful grandmother to Jennifer, Rachel and David. Sh
 SLOANE-Edith. On August 9, 2001. Beloved wife of Elliot. Loving mother of Robin, Craig and Dean. Dear sister of Paul Shapiro. Adoring grandmother of Joseph and Jack; Adam, Rebecca and Noah; and Joshua. Service Monday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street & Amsterdam Ave. Contributions 
 SMITH-Susan H. Died August 9, 2001 in her 88th year. Surviving are husband Allan, daughter Laura Kalick, son Andrew, three grandchildren and two nieces. Interment in Martinsville, Indiana.       
 STEINMAN-Lillian May. Age 91. Died Friday, August 10, 2001. Graduate from New Rochelle High School in 1925, as valedictorian at age 15. Yearbook quote ''Her working ability has given her fame, though she is a scholar, she's a sport just the same.'' She later attended Wellesley and Barnard c
 WIDES-Ruth. Passed away on August 10, 2001. Much adored and loved wife of Melvin Wides of Boca Raton, FL, for 60 marvelous years. She was the mother of Susan Rosenblum and Steven Wides, the grandmother of Michael and Darren Rosenblum, and Sean and Bradley Wides, and the greatgrandmother of 
 WINSTON-Sharon. Age 72, of Ridgewood, NJ, on August 8, 2001, of neurological complications of Alzheimer's disease. Beloved mother of Doug, Randy and Matt; Beloved grandmother of Dustin, Jenna & Paige. Sharon graduated Summa Cum Laude from William Paterson in 1967, later obtaining her Master
 CHESTER-Lina. On August 11, 2001. To her husband, our dear cousin Irving, their son Jay, daughter Dr. Riva Marcus, her husband Dr. Roy Marcus and their children Jeremy and Abby. We extend the expression of our deepest love at this time of their great loss. With admiration and affection we w
 COHEN-Gloria Love. At age 77, on August 12, 2001. Wife to the late Meyer Cohen, loving mother of Ellen Perr, Serena Hodes, Madelyn Petrow-Cohen and Michelle Cohen. Grandmother of Stacey Widom, Jonathan Perr, Lane Hodes, Michael Spencer Hodes, Jessica Morgan Petrow-Cohen & Caroline Michelle 
 HINKLE-Gertrude ''Chica''. On August 9, 2001 at age 86. Beloved wife of the late John. Loving mother of Eleanor Shunas. Dear sister of Maria ''Mia'' Welch and the late Eleanor ''Tita'' Biggs. Also survived by many nieces, nephews, friends and colleagues. Interment private. Memorial service 
 PASCULLI-Mary. West Islip, LI, on August 12, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Patsy. Devoted mother of Felicia and her husband James Udell, Nicholas and Fedele. Cherished grandmother of eight. Funeral Mass Tuesday, 9:45 AM, at St. Joseph's R.C. Church, Babylon, LI. Interment Calvary Cemetery,
 RUSSACK-Joy C. On August 10, 2001, at the age of 90. She is survived by five generations of nieces and nephews. She was a dedicated teacher in the NYC public school system for over 40 years. She was a poet and a painter. Service Tuesday, August 14, 2001, at 11 AM, at ''Garlick-Riverside Mem
 Joanne Minnich, whose heart was cut out to remove a cancer and then restored to her body in an extraordinary operation that drew widespread attention last November, died on Thursday at her home in Mahopac, N.Y. She was 58. The cause was cancer, her husband, William, said. Mr
 HOCHMAN-Susan. Passed away on August 13, 2001. She was the beloved wife of Robert Hochman who predeased her. She will be remembered with love by her family, her daughter Renee Kornet, her son-in-law Mitchell Kornet and her grandchildren Alison and Robin Kornet. She was a truly remarkable wi
 HURWOOD-Beatrice Lillian. Beloved mother of Dietra GamarHirsch and Merry Slone, adored mother-in-law of Howard Hirsch & Richard Slone, loving grandmother of Tara and Wayne Goldstein, Ondine and Michael Miranda, Lauren and David Leighton and Benjamin Hirsch, great-grandmother of Zachary, Jos
 MENDALES-Deborah E. (Balaban) of Bedford, MA on August 12, 2001. Beloved wife of Samuel Mendales. Dear daughter of Edwin and Ziona (Waldenberg) Balaban of Dallas, TX. Devoted mother of Benjamin, Jacob and Ezra Mendales. Loving sister of Sharon Balaban-Buxt of Dallas, TX. Funeral services at
 MORGULAS-Carolyn Kalker, 94. Died August 13th, 2001. A resident of Scarsdale, NY for 50 years and Longboat Key, FL. Loving wife of the late William Kalker and the late David Morgulas. Beloved mother of Alan Kalker and Karen Kalker Schotland (Ronald Schotland). Loving grandmother to Gary, Do
 QUINLAN-Isadora Liz Wexler. Died August 11, 2001, of advanced lung cancer. Surviving is her husband, Robert J. Quinlan. Funeral services private. Memorial service planned. Memorial donations to Vassar College and the Church of the Holy Trinity, Manhattan.       
 SKOLER-Dorothy Fraiman, 90. Educator, public accountant, patron of the arts. With great sadness, we announce her peaceful passing at home in Manhattan on August 12, 2001. Caring wife and business partner of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Merle and Cara and their spouses, Bill Becker and
 STERN-Rose Fallik. On August 12, 2001, in Commack, NY. Widow of the late Carl Stern. She will be lovingly remembered by daughter and son-in-law Renee and Steve Steinig, grandchildren Karen Steinig and Jeff Stewart and Debbie Steinig and Jason Eisner, greatgrandson Benjamim Stewart, and sist
 STERNLICHT-Lola. Of Forest Hills, NY, died at age 92. She was predeceased by her husband, Jacob Sternlicht. Beloved mother of Mark Sternlicht of Stamford, CT and Celina Zborowski of Jamaica Estates. Mother-in-law of Harriet Sternlicht and Marvin Zborowski. Loving grandmother of five grandso
 WINSTON-Anita (Roth) on August 13, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Caracas, Venezuela. Beloved wife of Albert Katz and the late Howard Winston. Devoted mother of Gail Winston of NYC and Susan Winston and her husband Bruce Oran of NYC. Loving grandmother of Nathaniel, Simon, Hilary and Andrea
 DUNN-Ann (Keeley). Former Board Member of Sun Warehouse of N.Y.C. on August 11, 2001. Life long resident of Glen Ridge, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Robert E. Dunn Jr. Dear mother of Robert E. III, Deborah Vita, Melissa Johnson, and Thomas J. Dunn. Also survived by her brothers Bill and Gor
 GAMSON-Edna Rothchild. On August 14 in her 91st year in Israel. Beloved mother of Harvey and Robert Gamson. Dear sister of Irving, Joseph and Herbert Rothchild. Grandmother and great grandmother. Interment in Israel.       
 HELMAN-Anne. On August 12, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Michel. Her family and friends grieve the loss of a woman who led her life with courage and dignity until she closed her twinkling blue eyes for the last time in her 94th year. Her daughter Joan and son-in-law Bob, her granddaughters
 KEBBE-Sally Gracie. Died in August, 2001 after a long and brave battle with lung cancer. She was a longtime actress appearing on many television soap operas, movies and radio spots. She is survived by her son, Timothy, daughter-in-law, Mary, stepson, Jonathan, stepdaughter, Nicola, & grandc
 LEWIS-Amelia. August 13, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Edward P. Lewis. Devoted mother of Willene. Cherished grandmother of Paul Sweeney and Craig Sweeney. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St Thursday, Au
 QUINLAN-Liz Wexler. The Vassar College Board of Trustees mourns the loss of Liz Wexler Quinlan, Vassar Class of 1959 and member of the Board. With extraordinary compassion, she influenced countless young people as executive director of Books for Kids, and through her continuing leadership a
 TEAGLE-Rhoda Walker. Age 91, of Woodstock, VT, formerly of NYC, died August 9 at Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH. She was born June 9, 1910 in New York City, one of five daughters of Roberts Walker, a senior partner of White and Case lawyers in NY, and the former Edna Morse.
 Isadora Wexler Quinlan, the executive director of the Books for Kids Foundation, a nonprofit literacy organization, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 63 and lived in Manhattan and Guilford, Conn. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband,
 LEIGHTON-Sylvia, 88. Of Palm Harbor, FL, died August 13, 2001 at her residence. Formerly of Port Washington, NY and Palm Beach, FL, Mrs. Leighton was a member of Temple Ahavat Shalom, Palm Harbor, FL, Hadassah, and The Women's American ORT. Beloved wife of the late Kurt Leighton. Loving mot
 LEWIS-Amelia. August 13, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Edward P. Lewis. Devoted mother of Willene. Cherished grandmother of Paul Sweeney and Craig Sweeney. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St Thursday, Au
 LEWIS-Claudia. With sadness, we wanted to let you know of the passing of Claudia Lewis this past Thursday-August 9th-at her home in Pennswood Village, PA. Claudia, who would have been 94 this fall, studied at Bank Street in the early 1930s and then joined the faculty of the graduate school,
 ROCHMIS-Lola (nee Zucca). Beloved wife of the late Max Rochmis, loving sister of Irma, Orlando and the late Carmen, sisterin-law to the late Jennie and Max Goldman and Kate and David Molinoff. Her sense of style, love of life and bravery will be missed by her nieces and nephews, Sandy and B
 SELBY-Christine ''Kiki'' (Van Erk). Passed away on August 14. She was so many things: a mother, a wife, a sister and a friend. More often than not, a combination of them all. Those who were fortunate enough to have known her will miss her kindness, wit, humor, sense of adventure, fight & ne
 WAAGE-Dorothy V. Passed away on August 13. She was the adored wife of the late Thomas O. Waage, dear sister of Elaine Karpf and of Raphael Cerino, and beloved aunt of Carol Baer and Paul Cerino. She was a serious student of Shakespeare and classic literature, an avid lover of opera and grea
 Gale Cincotta, a plainspoken mother of six who became a neighborhood activist and went on to help ignite the national debate over bank lending policies that discriminated against minority home buyers, died Wednesday at a hospital in Maywood, Ill. She was 72. The cause was gall bladd
 ANGRIST-Florence. Seventy-seven, of Lake Worth, FL. passed away on August 7, 2001. After fiftyone wonderful years of marriage, she remains adored by her husband Jack, a retired Deputy Chief of the New York City Police Department. Survived by devoted and supportive daughter Karen Voigt and s
 CASHMAN-Betty, ''Coach to the Famous,'' nationally known drama coach for politicians and performers, died Wednesday after a long illness. She was 90 years old. A native of New York City she taught acting and speech skills to a wide range of public figures from the late director of the Centr
 FELTMAN-Susan. On August 15, 2001. Loving daughter of the late Dr. James A. Feltman & Priscilla Savage Feltman. Ms. Feltman was an accomplished stage actress who also pursued a career as a nurse and healthcare consultant. She was respected and admired by her friends and colleagues for her w
 GOLDSTEIN-Ruth H. At the age of 87 on August 15th, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Trude Chatoff and Michael Goldstein and their spouses, Peter Chatoff and Sherry Goldstein. Grandmother of David Chatoff, Robin Goldstein Lincoln, Brian Lincoln and Andrea Goldstein. Gre
 JUSTER-Alaine. On August 16, 2001, of Oyster Bay Cove, L.I. Beloved wife of Cyrus. Devoted mother of Fern, Holly and Laurie. Loving mother-in-law of Steven Swirsky and Keith Klefstad. Dear sister of Rabbi Moshe Feierstein. Adored grandmother of MaggieRose, Maxwell, Jacob, Samuel and Emma. S
 LIEBER-Manfred. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Senta Lieber upon the loss of her husband. May the families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 McLELLAN-Jeanne E. Of Doylestown and formerly of New York City, died August 15, 2001. Relatives and friends are invited to her graveside service on Saturday, August 18th at 2:00 P.M. at the Kensico Cemetery, 273 Lakeview Avenue, Valhalla, New York.       
 MILLER-Rose. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel. Devoted mother of David and Candice. Adored grandmother of Andrew and Beth (Fendell), Emily and Per Anders (Wendin) and Howard Miller. Loving great-grandmother of Daniel. We will all miss her.       
 SACK-Lauretta D. At age 85. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Devoted mother of Kenneth, David, Michael and Daniel. Adored mother-in-law of Robin, Suzanne andSandi. Loving sister of Larry Dorn. Cherished grandmother of Darren, Jeffrey, Elizabeth, Allison, Jennifer, Jacob, Myra and Leah. Serv
 SAKRAIDA-Mary Jo Hughes. Of Pound Ridge, N.Y. Died on August 15, 2001. She was 42 years old. She was born in Buffalo, N.Y. to Robert and Mary Sullivan Hughes. She is survived by her loving husband, Michael. Visiting hours will be Saturday and Sunday 2 to 4 and 7 to 9 at Clark Associates Fun
 SHEN-Ruth Rasch. Passed away peacefully on August 15th, ending a life of compassion, service and goodness. Loving wife of T.Y., mother of Pamela and Robert, grandmother of Kaitlin, and sister of Naomi. An open house for friends & relatives in her memory at our Orinda home will be held on Au
 Sally Gracie, an actress whose career embraced television, theater and films, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80. Ms. Gracie studied at the Neighborhood Playhouse and with Martin Ritt before appearing in Broadway revivals of ''Major Barbara'' and ''Goodbye Again.'' 
 Henrietta Milstein, who bought a clothing factory in Burlington, N.J., with her husband, Monroe, and helped to build it into a chain of retail stores, died yesterday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. She was 72. The cause was ovarian cancer, said Mr. Milstein, who is president and 
 ANGRIST-Florence. Seventy-seven, of Lake Worth, FL. passed away on August 7, 2001. After fiftyone wonderful years of marriage, she remains adored by her husband Jack, a retired Deputy Chief of the New York City Police Department. Survived by devoted and supportive daughter Karen Voigt and s
 BLUMBERG-Ruth Elhassid. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Services Sunday 11:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St & Amsterdam Ave. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas BLUMBERG-Ruth 
 deVRIES-Tilly. Passed peacefully on August 16, 2001. Cherished wife of the late Lion, beloved sister of Albert Van Creveld and dear aunt of Reni de Verteuil, Knight in the Order Oranje-Nassau, bestowed upon her by H.M. Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands. Travel agent and tour director extraor
 SAKRAIDA-Mary Jo Hughes. It is with tremendous sadness that we mourn the untimely loss of Mary Jo Hughes Sakraida, who passed away on Wednesday, August 15, 2001. Mary was a powerful force for good in the communities of Northern Westchester. As president of the Junior League of Northern West
 SPARKS-Marie B. On August 16th, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Lewis E. Sparks. Loving mother of Alice and Valentine Mateos, James and Margaret Sparks, and Patricia and Claudio Borghesan. Dear sister of Dorothy Smith. Also survived by 7 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren. Retired princ
 WEBER-Sylvia on August 16, 2001. Beloved mother of Robert Weber and Lillian Silver, grandmother of Daniel, Elise, Danny and David, great grandmother of Sterling, Sloan and Sydney. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Alzheimer's Assoc or the Metropolitan Opera.       
 Jeanne Loriod, whose artistry playing the ondes martenot, a rare electronic instrument known for its haunting wail, made her the instrument's most celebrated performer, died on Aug. 3 at Juan-les-Pins, France. She was 72. The cause was a stroke, British newspapers reported. 
 ANGRIST-Florence. Seventy-seven, of Lake Worth, FL. passed away on August 7, 2001. After fiftyone wonderful years of marriage, she remains adored by her husband Jack, a retired Deputy Chief of the New York City Police Department. Survived by devoted and supportive daughter Karen Voigt and s
 BLUMBERG-Ruth Elhassid. We deeply mourn the passing of our adored daughter, wife and mother. A trustee of Congregation Shearith Israel, past president of the Volunteers Association of the Jewish Museum, and a member of many Jewish organizations. Services Sunday, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'
 de VRIES-Tilly. Passed peacefully on August 16, 2001. Cherished wife of the late Lion, beloved sister of Albert Van Creveld and dear aunt of Reni de Verteuil, Knight in the Order Oranje-Nassau, bestowed upon her by H.M. Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands. Travel agent and tour director extrao
 ELBERG-Ruth. Our dear Ruth lost her valiant battle to breast cancer on August 18, 2001. Much loved wife of Norman. Adored mother of Barry and Allen. Loving sister of Marianne Finger (Al) and Herman Schloss (Louise). Her passion for life and her indomitable spirit will live in our hearts for
 FUBINI-Anna R., A.C.S.W. It is with deepest sadness that her family mourns her untimely passing. Beloved daughter, cherished sister, caring aunt, kind friend, devoted clinical social worker who nurtured the children and families under her care. Her blessed memory will live on in all those w
 GOLDSTEIN-Ruth. The Board of Directors and staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the passing of Ruth Goldstein, adored wife of the late Harry Goldstein and loving mother of our esteemed board member, Michael Goldstein and his wife Sherry. Our hearts and prayers are also with Ruth's beloved daugh
 JUSTER-Alaine. Her longtime friends record with great sorrow the passing of a woman of valor. Pat and Dick Blumberg Gloria and Sidney Finkel Feigy and Julius Goldberg Renee and Jerry Mordfin       
 LEEDS-Sylvia. The Board of Trustees, Family Association, staff and consumers of YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities notes with great sadness the passing of Sylvia Leeds. For over three decades she was a passionate and compassionate advocate for the establishment of services 
 LEWIS-Claudia L., Ph.D. Died on August 9, 2001, in Newtown, PA, at the age of 93. Author, poet and teacher with a long, distinguished career as a professor at Bank Street College. She also gave courses at the New School in NYC, and workshops throughout the United States. Dr. Lewis received 
 MEYER-Marthe M. Loving tribute to our beautiful mother, wife of the late Dr. Karl Meyer. Mother of Janet Meyer Levy and Robert Meyer. Mother-in-law of Julie Begel Meyer. Grandmother to Jessica and Tom Levy. We will all miss her. Contributions may be sent to Compassionate Care Hospice, 66 Mt
 MILLER-Rose. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel. Devoted mother of David and Candice. Adored grandmother of Andrew and Beth (Fendell), Emily and Per Anders (Wendin) and Howard Miller. Loving great-grandmother of Daniel. We will all miss her.       
 MILSTEIN-Henrietta (nee Haas). Died on Friday, August 17, after a valiant battle with cancer. Beloved wife for 51 years of Monroe. Devoted mother of Lazer (Zipporah), Andrew (Carol), Stephen (Eve). Loving grandmother of Nesanel, Asher, Elisha, Amanda, Daniel, Samuel and Grace. Sister of Geo
 SPODEK-Vivian Nancy. Beloved wife of Dr. Irving, cherished mother of Stephen and Julie, devoted daughter of Sylvia and the late Dr. Jacob Ginsberg, most special sister of Susan and Dr. Paul Beck, adored aunt of Jonathan Beck, and Judith and Adam Wagner, died peacefully after a determined fi
 STEVENS-Lori. June 25, 1911August 7, 2001. Grew up in the south and struck out on her own to NYC at age 16. She was active in show business, formed a natural foods company and was a celebrity personal chef. She leaves family in the south and west. For more information call, 509-547-7028.   
 STUYCK-Alida J. 94, formerly of Stamford, CT, died August 18, 2001. She was predeceased by her husband George, a son Jan-Pieter, a brother Pieter Groen, and a sister Johanna Groen. She leaves two daughters, Johanna S. Gould and L. Marietta Avery, a son Joris, seven grandchildren and six gre
 FUBINI-Anna R., A.C.S.W. It is with deepest sadness that her family mourns her untimely passing. Beloved daughter, cherished sister, caring aunt, kind friend, devoted clinical social worker who nurtured the children and families under her care. Her blessed memory will live on in all those w
 GORDON-Hannah. Beloved wife of the late Carl Gordon. Passed peacefully and with dignity on August 19, 2001. For 93 years she touched all who knew her with her gracious and selfless presence, her zealous love of life, her deep dedication to family, her sense of charity, and her brilliant and
 LEEDS-Sylvia S. Died August 16, 2001. Cherished and loving wife of Charles Leeds and last surviving child of Morris and Sadie Smith, a succesful coutourier on lower 2nd Avenue until the 1920s. Sylvia graduated as an English major from Hunter College in 1933, but, because of the depression w
 LEVY-Emilie (nee Devidas). On August 18, 2001, at age 92. Widow of Joseph Levy. Beloved mother of Robert Levy and Gloria Kirchheimer. Grandmother of Gabriel and Daniel Kirchheimer. Greatgrandmother of Matthew Solomon Kirchheimer. Services Monday, 1 PM, at The Riverside, Amsterdam Ave. at 76
 MILSTEIN-Henrietta. We, of the Garment Center Congregation and Sisterhood, are deeply saddened by the passing of Henrietta Milstein, our beloved member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to Monroe Milstein, our devoted trustee, to Lazar, Andrew, and Stephen and to the entire family. Jack Ratusch
 MYERS-Judy. Of Aventura, FL, peacefully on August 18, 2001. Beloved wife for 48 years of Sydney. Devoted mother of Jody and Robert. Adored grandmother of Michael, Matthew, Ryan and Dylan. Loving sister of Linda. Cherished aunt of Robin, Jillian, Kevin and the late Jordan. Great-aunt to Kait
 Kim Stanley, whose infrequent but luminous stage portraits brought her to the edge of greatness, but who ultimately shrank from the pressures of performance and stardom, died yesterday at a hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 76 and lived in Santa Fe. She died after a prolonged illne
 DAUM-Joan. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Joan Daum. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bernhard, President Her
 GITTLEMAN-Beatrice. On August 19, 2001 at age 85. The matriarch of our family. Beloved wife of the late Max Gittleman. Extraordinary mother to Devorah Heller, Toby and Alan Edelson and Shula and Stuart Brudner. Adored grandmother to Lawrence Heller and Dayna Langfan, Michelle and Howard Ede
 GORDON-Hannah. Beloved wife of the late Carl Gordon. Passed peacefully and with dignity on August 19, 2001. For 93 years she touched all who knew her with her gracious and selfless presence, her zealous love of life, her deep dedication to family, her sense of charity, and her brilliant and
 HALPERT-Marsha. On August 20, 2001. Loving sister of Rita Cohan and sister-in-law of Stanley. Also survived by her nephews Peter and Jeffry and great-nephew Casey. Services Thursday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. HALPERT-Marsha. Dear sister of Rita 
 MILSTEIN-Henrietta. She was an inspirational businesswoman, whom we will always remember for her devotion to her family and her warm and gracious manner. It was a privilege to know her. Our heartfelt sympathy to the entire Milstein family. May her memory be for a blessing. Barbara and Harve
 MYERS-Judy. Of Aventura, FL, peacefully on August 18, 2001. Beloved wife for 48 years of Sidney. Devoted mother of Jody and Robert. Adored grandmother of Michael, Matthew, Ryan and Dylan. Loving sister of Linda. Cherished aunt of Robin, Jillian, Kevin and the late Jordan. Great-aunt to Kait
 RONER-Gerda (Spitz) formerly of New York. Wife of the late Fred Roner and Kurt Robitschek (Ken Robey). Mother of Helen and her husband Bernard M. Strauss and the late Deborah Robey. Sister of Julia Lederer. Grandmother of Kenneth and Elliot Strauss. Services Thursday, 1 PM at ''The Riversid
 ROTH-Rea A., 88, of Coconut Creek, FL. Passed away August 19, 2001. She is survived by her loving husband, Herbert; son Kenneth (Rosalie); two grandchildren Jordan and Karen. Funeral Services will be Tuesday 11:45 am at Star of David Memorial Gardens, 7701 Bailey Road, North Lauderdale, FL.
 SLACKMAN-Sadie. On August 19, 2001 at age 97. Beloved wife of the late William, devoted mother of Peter Slackman and Mildred Berkey. Cherished grandmother and great grandmother. Loving aunt and cousin of many family members. She was devoted to the entire family and will be greatly missed by
 SOBECK-Mary E. On August 16, 2001 at 96 years. Beloved friend, preceeded in death by her husband Mike Sobeck. Survived by Fr. Aiden O'Driscoll, Fr. Kurin O'Driscoll and ''a family of friends'' in New York City and Ireland. Friends may call today at Mary Manning Walsh, 1339 York Ave at 9am. 
 ADLER-Sophie Betesh, on August 20, 2001 at age 89. Loving wife of the late Morris. Mother of Harriet Weinstein and Marylin Silverman. Mother-in-law of Alan Weinstein & Joseph Silverman. Grandmother of Lisa, Mark, Andrew, Jennifer, Jordan, Renee, Kevin, Melissa, Lara, Katie, Elaine and Adam.
 GITTLEMAN-Beatrice. On August 19, 2001 at age 85. The matriarch of our family. Beloved wife of the late Max Gittleman. Extraordinary mother to Devorah Heller, Toby and Alan Edelson and Shula and Stuart Brudner. Adored grandmother to Lawrence Heller and Dayna Langfan, Michelle and Howard Ede
 HALPERT-Marsha. On August 20, 2001. Loving sister of Rita Cohan and sister-in-law of Stanley. Also survived by her nephews Peter and Jeffry and great-nephew Casey. Services Thursday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 LOUREKAS-Theodora N. Of Garden City, NY, died Sunday, August 19, 2001, at age 77. She is survived by her daughter Virginia, her son Peter, and her grandchildren Alicia and Simona. Theodora, known at Teddy, worked for Long Island Trust Bank for over twenty years and became a Vice President i
 MEAD-Edna Hawelka. Died Saturday, August 18, 2001 at Somers Manor Nursing Home, Somers, NY. Mrs. Mead was a retired New York State Insurance Broker, life member of the Bronx Artists' Guide, life member of the Bronx County Historical Society and founding member of the Bronx Museum of the Art
 PERRICONE-Faye Cannata, age 73, formerly of New York City, NY, passed away Sunday. Funeral services will be at 10 A.M. Friday at Holy Family Church. Burial following at Calvary Cemetery. Mrs. Perricone is survived by her daughter and son-in-law, Linda and Loren Smith of Tega Cay, SC; and he
 UELLENDAHL-Wilmoth Gibson. Of Kimogenor Point, New Suffolk, L.I. (formerly of Bedford, N.Y.) on August 19, 2001. Beloved wife of the late, Erwin H. Uellendahl. Loving mother of Wilmoth Uellendahl Palazolo and Elisabeth Uellendahl Beavan & mother-in-law of Anthony J. Palazolo and Keith Beava
 USDAN-Irwin. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva records with deep sorrow the passing of the beloved brother of our longtime friend and supporter, Dassie Bienenfeld, who together with her husband Marvin, Chairman of AFYBA, have been instrumental in furthering and benefiting Jewish cause
 WEISS-Lila, of North White Plains, NY on August 20, age 76. Dear mother of Judy Simon and Karen Shapiro. Loving grandmother of four. Funeral services Wednesday (today) 10am at the Chapel in the Woods of Congregation Kol Ami, Soundview Ave, White Plains, NY. Interment Mt. Pleasant Cemetery, 
 WIESEN-Sadonia Ecker, 86, died at her home in Flushing on 20 August. Mother, Grandmother, Friend, she left us all a legacy of love and courage, study and fortitude. Cherished wife of the late David Theodore Wiesen, she was a legal secretary for 20 years, and then a school secretary for the 
 ADLER-Sophie Betesh, on August 20, 2001 at age 89. Loving wife of the late Morris. Mother of Harriet Weinstein and Marylin Silverman. Mother-in-law of Alan Weinstein & Joseph Silverman. Grandmother of Lisa, Mark, Andrew, Jennifer, Jordan, Renee, Kevin, Melissa, Lara, Katie, Elaine and Adam.
 ALKIN-Frances. The Board of Trustees, the Medical Staff, and the employees of Long Beach Medical Center join the members of the Long Beach Medical Center Auxiliary in expressing our profound sorrow on the passing of our colleague, Frances Alkin. For 25 years, she held the office of Presiden
 BERENSON-Birdie. 97. Died on August 21, 2001. Compatriot of Eleanor Roosevelt. U.N. & human rights activist. Past President of B'nai Brith. A woman of valor. Loving mother of David and the late Robert. Cherished mother-inlaw of Joan and Marion. Grandmother of 5. A graveside service will be 
 KATZEN-Matalie. Of Deerfield Beach, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, on August 22, 2001, with family in La Jolla. Mother of Joel and Roy, and daughters-in-law Loretta and Sarah. Beloved grandmother to Daniel, Rachael, Ezra, Alisha, Hannah, Jacob and Joshua. Will be fondly remembered for her fr
 KAY-Nan Bennett. Vassar College mourns the loss of our trustee Nan Bennett Kay, Class of 1960. Nan Kay also served recently as president of her class and as a member of the Development Leadership Council. A warm, witty and generous woman, Nan had a fierce commitment to education, to young p
 LAUTERSTEIN-Katherine Mebane, 70. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother, died peacefully at her home in Stamford, Connecticut, on Monday, August 20, 2001. Katherine was born in Knoxville, Tennessee on September 19, 1930, and raised in Rockwood, Tennessee. She graduated from Radcliffe College
 MITCHELL-Bernard L. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Bernard L. Mitchell, beloved father of Susan Wald. We extend our deepest condolences to Susan and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 YASEEN-Gertrude Kuba, 94, on August 18, 2001, of Bal Harbour, Florida. Wife of the late Benjamin and the late Joseph Yaseen. Beloved mother of Donald Kuba. Loving grandmother of David and Melissa Kuba. An avid bridge player all her life.       
 Kathleen Freeman, the veteran character actress whose salty comic talents were most recently on display in the current Broadway musical ''The Full Monty,'' died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 78. The cause was lung cancer, said Michael Hartman, a publicist for the show.  
 CONNELL-William F. Of Swampscott, MA, formerly of Lynn, MA, age 63 years. Husband of Mrs. Margot C. (Gensler) Connell. Son of the late William J. & Theresa G. (Keaney) Connell. Father of Monica C. Healey & her husband D. Thomas Healey Jr. of Beverly Farms, Lisa T. McNamara & her husband Joh
 EISENBUD-Naida (nee Robare). On August 22, 2001. Wife of Leon Eisenbud. Mother of Barbara Mandell of Ellicott City, MD and Robert Eisenbud of Washington, DC. Mother-in-law of Ira Mandell. Grandmother of Kenneth Mandell, Jessica Mandell and her fiance Michael Curley. Sister of Floyd Robare. 
 LASHLEY-Jane Morse. We mourn the passing of Jane Morse Lashley, the mother of our esteemed partner, David W. Morse. She was a gifted and dedicated educator who began her forty-five year career as an elementery school teacher and recently retired as the Chair, Department of Education at Came
 PRESTON-Susan. On August 22, 2001, age 57, passed away peacefully following a long illness. Survived by children Michael, Lisa and Jeffrey, who revered and adored her; beloved parents Kate & A. Edward Schneyer; cherished brother Richard Schneyer; Robert Preston; devoted friends Shelley Reml
 AGREE-Dr. Rose H. (8/25/13-3/24/ 01), Wife of the late Morris Agree, mother of Peter and Joel. A passionate partisan in the cause of social justice and on behalf of the arts; a dedicated school librarian, & teacher. Close friends and dear relatives mark her 88th birthday in sorrow & reflect
 CONNELL-William F. Of Swampscott, MA, formerly of Lynn, MA, age 63 years. Husband of Mrs. Margot C. (Gensler) Connell. Son of the late William J. & Theresa G. (Keaney) Connell. Father of Monica C. Healey & her husband D. Thomas Healey Jr. of Beverly Farms, Lisa T. McNamara & her husband Joh
 HEFFERNAN-Miriam Margaret, Ph.D.. Age 89, of Manhattan, on August 23, 2001 after a long illness. Dear daughter of the late John J. & the late Mary (nee Daly), loving sister of Dorothy (Heffernan) McVeigh of Valatie, New York (formerly of Brooklyn), the late John J. Heffernan, Jr., the late 
 LASHLEY-Jane Morse. We mourn the passing of Jane Morse Lashley, the mother of our esteemed partner, David W. Morse. She was a gifted and dedicated educator who began her forty-five year career as an elementery school teacher and recently retired as the Chair, Department of Education at Came
 LIND-Meri. Beloved sister of Vera Stern, aunt, great-aunt, friend and mentor, died in peace at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Services this Sunday at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue at 91st Street at 2 P.M. LIND-Meri. We extend our deepest condolences and sympat
 VOGEL-Helen. August 23, 2001 after a long illness. Beloved mother and grandmother. For many years, she was a women's clothing designer with a devoted clientele in Paris and New York. She was multilingual, with a keen interest in literature, politics and the arts, and was known for her intel
 ALKIN-Frances (nee Held). Of Long Beach, NY, passed away peacefully in her sleep on August 21, 2001. Beautiful wife ''Bub'' to the late Philip. Darling ''Marnos'' to daughter Sondra ''Sassy'' and son-in-law of Burt Lesser. Adorable Granny Frances to Michele and Steve Goldman and Bill and Ci
 BODENHEIMER-Estelle Louise. Of Sarasota, FL, formerly of NYC and Akron, OH, on August 23, 2001, age 75. Dearly beloved wife of Richard B. (Dick), retired editor of ''Chief-Leader.'' Daughter of the late Sallie and Dr. Phillip Hose. Sister of the late Lieut. Leonard Hose, USN, lost in WW II.
 COLLINS-Vera A. (nee Kelly). On August 24, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Daniel. Loving sister of the late John Kelly, Josephine Goeller, Irene Clark, Gertrude Powers and Marie Wainwright. Devoted aunt of Patricia Baker, Marianne Costello, Arthur Powers, Jack Goeller and 
 CONNELL-William F. Of Swampscott, MA, formerly of Lynn, MA, age 63 years. Husband of Mrs. Margot C. (Gensler) Connell. Son of the late William J. & Theresa G. (Keaney) Connell. Father of Monica C. Healey & her husband D. Thomas Healey Jr. of Beverly Farms, Lisa T. McNamara & her husband Joh
 FOX-Elisabeth (Libby), nee Grey, died peacefully in Boston, USA on August 22, 2001. Bryn Mawr B.A. '50, Harvard Ed.M. '63, Oxford Doctoral Studies '69-'71; pioneer of the International Baccalaureate program; Director of Santiago College, Santiago, Chile 1964-1968 and 1991-2000, Headmistress
 HEFFERNAN-Miriam Margaret, Ph.D.. Age 89, of Manhattan, on August 23, 2001 after a long illness. Dear daughter of the late John J. & the late Mary (nee Daly), loving sister of Dorothy (Heffernan) McVeigh of Valatie, New York (formerly of Brooklyn), the late John J. Heffernan, Jr., the late 
 JOACHIM-Linda J. Of McLean, VA on Friday, August 24, 2001 at her home. Beloved wife of Scott Charney and daughter of Lorinda Rochetti of Middlehope, NY. Friends may call at Money & King Vienna Funeral Home, 171 W. Maple Ave., Vienna, VA, on Sunday, August 26, from 6 to 8 pm. where funeral s
 LIND-Meri. Beloved sister, aunt, great-aunt, friend and mentor, died in peace at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center. Born in Moscow in 1918, she lived in Berlin and Paris before immigrating to New York in 1938. Following her father's deportation to Auschwitz, she was the driving force in
 LYMAN-Frances (nee Goldstein). A native New Yorker died on August 24, 2001, in Riverdale at the age of 86. Wife of the late Sidney. Mother of Debra Lamont and her husband John. Grandmother to exquisite granddaughters Sarah and Jennifer. Sister of the late Stephen Greene. Funeral service Tue
 MITCHELSON-Emily M. (nee Nelson). On August 14, 2001, age 73 of Cherry Hill, NJ and Jamaica Queens, NY. She was born in Cincinnati, Ohio. Her parents were John and Anne (Grasty) Nelson. She is survived by her beloved husband Thomas P. Mitchelson II for over 54 years, her children Thomas III
 MOSS-Hope. Of Miami, Florida and formerly of Westhampton Beach, NY and New York City, died on August 1, 2001. Hope is survived by her children, Paul and Jane Roseman & Robin and John Moss Hinchcliff; by her sister, Joy Moss Kohoutova; by her grandchildren; & by many cousins and life-long fr
 PASQUALE-Rose. 84 years old, a homemaker and a dress model. A lifelong resident of Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. She entered into eternal rest on August 24, 2001, at Maimonides. Born Rose Mascato in Manhattan, Mrs. Pasquale moved to Brooklyn at 12 years old. A graduate of Lincoln High School, she 
 PATRICOF-Esther ''Pat.'' Beloved sister of Sol, sister-in-law of Rosalind, aunt of Dory and Howard, and cherished cousin of Alan and Susan Patricof, Carol and Bob Gross, Jules, Marcia and Jaclyn. The family is forever grateful to her loving companion Pamela. Services private.       
 PRESTON-Susan. On August 22, 2001, age 57, passed away peacefully following a long illness. Survived by children Michael, Lisa and Jeffrey, who revered and adored her; beloved parents Kate & A. Edward Schneyer; cherished brother Richard Schneyer; Robert Preston; devoted friends Shelley Reml
 ROGAN-Deena V. 62 of Yonkers, NY, on August 24, 2001, formerly of Ossining, NY. She passed away after a long illenss with her family by her side at home. Survived by her husband Stuart. Devoted mother of Warren, Rhonda and Henry. Loving grandmother to Andrew. Also survived by a sister Toby.
 ROSSON-Gertrude (nee Tepman). Age 99, in Beverly Hills. Former long time resident of Forest Hills with her husband Gilbert. In later years resided in Florida. With profound sorrow her family mourns her passing. Cherished mother of Ellen and Ronald; terrific mother-in-law of Helene Rosson an
 RUSH-Mary. On August 5, of Alzheimer's. ''Mollie'' nee Mary Stevens Conover, married Richard Rush in 1928 and moved to St. Paul's School, Concord, NH, where her husband ''Speedy'' taught. They spent summers in New Milford, CT, and retired there in '65. She is survived by her children, who w
 SIEGEL-Dr. Israel. We extend sincerest condolences to Mollie Siegel and Dr. Francine Stein on the loss of their beloved husband and father. In her professional life and as an esteemed member of our Board, Fran carries on the traditions of compassionate healing and Ahavat Yisrael which were 
 VOGEL-Helen. February 14, 1912 to August 23, 2001. Holocaust survivor, she is mourned by her friends of many years the Karchmar and Boehm families, by Stanislawa Perkowska her devoted caretaker, and by her sister Lucia Orenstein of Paris. Helen was a true friend to everyone, and we will mis
 WEISS-Lila. The Schulman family grieves the loss of their dear, sweet cousin, who lived her life with dignity and courage and with great joy and wit. She will be dearly missed. Lowell Schulman Gloria Schulman Levine Phyllis Schulman Schain Naomi Schulman Barry       
 Aaliyah, a multimillion-selling, precociously sultry rhythm-and-blues singer and actress, died on Saturday in the crash of a small airplane, The Associated Press reported. She was returning from Abaco Island in the Bahamas, where she had been making a video clip, to Miami in a private plane
 AUERBACH-Florence C. Passed away the morning of Saturday, August 25, unexpectedly and during her sleep. She leaves a loving husband, Shay; devoted sons Ross and Glenn, their wives, Sophia and Camille, to whom she was a mother; three wonderful grandchildren, Gabrielle, Daniella and Elex, the
 COBB-Elizabeth Bliss Parkinson. On August 24, at Meadowlakes, Hightstown, NJ, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Henry Ives Cobb. Survived by her daughter Zaidee Parkinson; her son John Parkinson III and her daughter-in-law Charlotte; her stepchildren Alex and Sheila Ewing, Ian and Victori
 COLLINS-Vera A. (nee Kelly). On August 24, 2001, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Daniel. Loving sister of the late John Kelly, Josephine Goeller, Irene Clark, Gertrude Powers and Marie Wainwright. Devoted aunt of Patricia Baker, Marianne Costello, Arthur Powers, Jack Goeller and 
 MOSS-Hope. Of Miami, Florida and formerly of Westhampton Beach, NY and New York City, died on August 1, 2001. Hope is survived by her children, Paul and Jane Roseman & Robin and John Moss Hinchcliff; by her sister, Joy Moss Kohoutova; by her grandchildren; & by many cousins and life-long fr
 Vicki Hearne, a writer who trained animals and used her poetry and prose to express her belief that pets possess courage, wisdom and intellect, died on Tuesday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 55 and lived in Westbrook, Conn. The cause was lung cancer, family me
 Diana Golden Brosnihan, who lost a leg to cancer at 12, won a gold medal in disabled skiing at the 1988 Calgary Olympics and played a key role in public appreciation of disabled athletes, died Saturday at a hospital in Providence, R.I. She was 38. Her cancer returned in 1992 and aga
 Jane Greer, whose dolorous but luminous dark eyes and world-weary beauty made her the ideal femme fatale opposite Robert Mitchum in ''Out of the Past'' and ''The Big Steal,'' film noir classics of the 1940's, died Friday in Los Angeles.  She was 76. The cause was complications of ca
 AUERBACH-Florence. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York mourns the passing of our beloved member Florence Auerbach. We extend heartfelt condolences to her husband, Shay, and family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 COBB-Elizabeth Bliss Parkinson. On August 24, at Meadowlakes, Hightstown, NJ, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Henry Ives Cobb. Survived by her daughter Zaidee Parkinson; her son John Parkinson III and her daughter-in-law Charlotte; her stepchildren Alex and Sheila Ewing, Ian and Victori
 COPELON-Esther Gold Milikowsky died on August 26th. She was born in New Haven, Ct. on April 27, 1919. She was the youngest of six children of Jacob Lyon & Sarah Freida Meltzer Gold. Her father was in the wholesale dairy business in New Haven which he started after emigrating from Minsk, Rus
 FRIEDMAN-Cecille Merl, 92. On August 26 in Phoenix, AZ. Loving wife of Leo J. Friedman who passed away in July. Mother of Roger and Jeffrey. Grandmother to Brian & Jason Friedman and Jill London. Survived by her identical twin sister Belle M. Rosier and a brother Irving Merl. Graveside fune
 MOSS-Hope. Of Miami, Florida and formerly of Westhampton Beach, NY and New York City, died on August 1, 2001. Hope is survived by her children, Paul and Jane Roseman & Robin and John Moss Hinchcliff; by her sister, Joy Moss Kohoutova; by her grandchildren; & by many cousins and life-long fr
 SCHWARTZ-Ida Russ. One of the daughters of NYC's famous Russ & Daughters appetizer store, died on August 24, 2001, at the age of 86, in Pembroke Pines, Florida. Ida and her sisters, Hattie and Anne, were the daughters of Joel Russ, who opened his appetizer store in 1914. Having no sons, he 
 Elizabeth Bliss Parkinson Cobb, a vital and effective presence at the Museum of Modern Art in New York for nearly 70 years, died on Aug. 24 in Hightstown, N.J. She was 93 and lived in Hightstown. Best known as Eliza Parkinson, Ms. Cobb was a niece of Lillie Bliss, one of the museum'
 COBB-Elizabeth Bliss Parkinson. On August 24, at Meadowlakes, Hightstown, NJ, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Henry Ives Cobb. Survived by her daughter Zaidee Parkinson; her son John Parkinson III and her daughter-in-law Charlotte; her stepchildren Alex and Sheila Ewing, Ian and Victori
 COPELON-Esther. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Esther Copelon. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Herman, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secre
 d'HARNONCOURT-Sarah Carr. Daughter of Harry Cumings Carr and Anne Connor Carr, sister of the late Malcolm Collier, and widow of Rene d'Harnoncourt, died on Tuesday, August 7, at Bryn Mawr Hospital after a brief illness. She was ninety-seven. She was born in Chicago on October 24, 1903, move
 HARNETT-Frances. The Board of Directors of The Prescott Fund For Children & Youth mourns the loss of its dear friend and devoted secretary for over 40 years. Her commitment to helping underprivileged children serves as enduring inspiration for us all. She will be greatly missed. Our sincere
 LANDESBERG-Miriam. Beloved wife of the late Julius. Devoted mother of Roy and Lydia Landesberg. Cherished grandmother of Stuart, Edward, Celia Jean and Paige. She was formerly a Hebrew teacher in Great Neck.       
 McGINN-Dr. Regina M. Of Staten Island on August 26, 2001. Beloved wife of Dr. Joseph T. McGinn. Loving mother of John, Joseph T. Jr., Joanna and Jacqueline. Cherished daughter of Anne and Dr. Arthur Pidoriano. Dear sister of Joanne McKeefrey, Lisa Nolin, Joseph and Dr. Arthur Pidoriano Jr. 
 MOLLIN-Lorraine Hoffman. Died on August 22 of complications following a brain aneurysm at age 67. She is survived by her devoted husband, Howard, beloved sons, Steven and Jeffrey, and brother, Marvin. Mrs. Mollin attended Brooklyn College and had been a longtime employee of the Brooklyn Dev
 ULANOV-Joan Bel Geddes, peacefully, in her sleep, New York, July 31, age 84. A memorial service for Joan Bel Geddes Ulanov will be held on Friday, September 7, at 2 PM, at NYU Catholic Center, Washington Square South, NYC. Reception will follow. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made
 WOLFE - Marguerite. Beloved wife of Stanley and cherished mother of Jeffrey and Madeleine, passed away peacefully on August 27, 2001. A Juilliard and Teachers College graduate, she was an accomplished pianist and long time teacher of music to children and young adults. She was a convert to 
 COBB-Elizabeth Bliss Parkinson. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and Members of its International Council are deeply saddened by the death of their treasured friend and colleague, Eliza Parkinson Cobb. In her almost 70-year close association with the Museum, she gave gener
 CUZZI-Karen. The Faculty and Staff of the Divison of Social Work and Behavorial Science Department of Community and Preventive Medicine of the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine are deeply saddened by the death of Karen Cuzzi, beloved wife of our colleague, Dr. Larry Cuzzi, Director of Social Wor
 GOULD-Mildred. My beloved sister. Family was the highest priority, the very essence, of her life. Unsurpassed in giving love and devotion, as daughter and sister, wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. We will miss and love you always. Take care of Mom, Dad and Sylvia. Walter     
 LASKER-Abby Rachael. Born November 7, 1969, died August 29, 2001. Abby, known as Rachael, was a spunky and outgoing young woman. Rachael fought a long and courageous battle with cancer. She did it with grace and spirit. Rachael is survived by her parents Betty and Milton Lasker, her sister 
 LEVIEN-Miriam on August 29, 2001. Died peacefully at her home in CT. Devoted wife of the late Seymour. Patient and loving mother of Lawrence and Jane. Adoring grandmother of Lauren, Simone and Daniel. Memorial service to be announced at a later date. Contributions in her memory may be made 
 ROMM-Helen, of Eugene, OR, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, August 28th. Beloved wife of Sam, loving mother of Dr. Richard Romm, and cherished grandmother of Robin. She was an inspiration to all and leaves a chasm in our lives.       
 SILVERMAN-Henrietta Yeckes. Loving daughter, sister, wife, mother and grandmother. She was the princess of our hearts. She is survived by her husband Mort, children Andy, Jerry, daughters-in-law Darina and Janice; grandchildren Ari, Kara, Michael, Tali, Elexis, Joey and Oren Epstein and Jef
 Alix Williamson, a classical music publicist who helped promote and shape the careers of legendary musicians from Lotte Lehmann to the Trapp Family Singers, died on Sunday at her home in New York. She was 85. Ms. Williamson built brand names for many artists and organizations, from 
 BOON-Rose. On August 30, 2001, after a lengthy illness. Mother of Stephen. Mother-in-law of Barbara and grandmother of Christopher, Jonathan and Timothy. She was the daughter of the late Harold L. Lee of Chinatown's Harold L. Lee & Sons, Inc. Reposing Friday, August 31, 2-4 and 7-9 PM at Fr
 COBB-Elizabeth Bliss Parkinson. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and Members of its International Council are deeply saddened by the death of their treasured friend and colleague, Eliza Parkinson Cobb. In her almost 70-year close association with the Museum, she gave gener
 GALLER-Tilda. On August 28, 2001. Beloved daughter and sister. She will be missed by her dear friends. Service at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave (at 91 St), NYC Sunday, 11AM. Interment to follow immediately at Riverside Cemetery, Saddle Brook, N.J.       
 PRINCE-Nancy Georgette. Age 60. Died on Tuesday, August 28, 2001 after a heroic fight with Leukemia. A longtime Manhattan and Westport CT. resident. Nancy is survived by her devoted friend and companion Pamela Perry, her loving family, sister Margot Rose and cousin Christine Jewel; and thre
 RABKIN-Barbara. We have lost our sister, aunt and best friend after a long battle with cancer. She inspired us all with her strength and courage, not only in the last 5 years but throughout her lifetime. We will miss her smile, laughter and friendship that was such a big part of our family.
 RUDNER-Gladys Muriel, on August 29, 2001, at 86 years. Beloved and loving wife of Albert for 66 years. Cherished mother of Jane and Reese Sherman and Judy and Jerry Kessel. Adored grandmother of Cathy and Jon Fiebach, Lynn M. Sherman, Danny and Kirstin Stiebel and Susan and Les Morgenstein.
 TAKAYAMA-Akiko (Shirai). We mourn the passing of a wonderful friend, teacher and extraordinarily gifted artist, who earned great international acclaim. Our deepest condolences to her daughters, Suzanna and Cecilia, and all who loved and admired her. Seiko, Robert, Seiji and Hana Newman     
