 ALEXANDER-Keren E., PhD., of Ridgefield, CT, on May 28, 2000, in Jerusalem. Cherished wife of Jonathan Alexander, M.D., proud and adoring mother of Jessica, Daniel and Benjamin, devoted daughter of Elsie Einhorn Koffer of Delray Beach, FL and the late Oscar Einhorn, loving sister of Roland 
 DICKENS-GUMBS-Inez. Of Roosevelt Island, NY. Born March 24, 1909, departed this life Friday, May 26, 2000. Her political activism and civic leadership will be greatly missed. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, June 4, 2000, at 3 PM at the Chapel of the Good Shepherd on Main St., Roo
 DOLGER-Laura Z. May 31, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Henry Dolger. Loving mother of Jonathan and his wife Jane Isay, and Judith Widmann and her husband Roger. Cherished grandmother of Daniel and Leslie Widmann, Emily and Robert McBurney, and Kenneth Widmann. She will be deeply missed 
 HARRIS-Elizabeth Ann. Age 43, of Plymouth, MA. Formerly of Greenlawn, NY. Died May 16, 2000. Beloved daughter of Gordon and Sondra. Loving sister of Louis and Paul. A graduate of S.U.N.Y., Albany. MBA from Penn State University. Relatives and friends are kindly invited to gather at the Dela
 HOFFERT-Rosolyn. We record with deep sorrow the passing of Rosolyn Hoffert, beloved wife of Dr. Paul W. Hoffert, loving mother of Dr. Marvin Hoffert, Dr. Renee Gutman and Dr. Deborah Hoffert. Adored grandmother of Alexander, Jason and David Hoffert, Benjamin and Rachel Gutman, Isaac Robinso
 LICHT-COHEN-Arlene, on May 30, 2000. Loving mother of Stephanie, Jason and Dara. Beloved sister of Louise Ungar (Louis) and Arnold Licht (Susan). Devoted daughter of Esther and the late Meyer Licht. Best possible aunt of Eliza and Jonah Licht, Joshua and Zachary Ungar. She was a teacher to 
 PERESS-Madeleine. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, N.Y. mourns the passing of our beloved member, Madeleine Peress. We extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Martin Kay, President       
 RICCOBONO-Beatrice M. Kaye. Downsville, NY, originally of New York City, peacfully passed May 27, 2000. She is survived by her beloved husband Justin of many joyful years and her stepson Lewis B. Kaye. Although educated and trained as a registered nurse, she is well known as a Manhattan rea
 RICHARDS-Betty Jenney. Widow of Richard Draper Richards. Passed away peacefully at the age of 91 after several years of declining health. Mother of James, Anthony, and Frederick Ayer. Stepmother of Toni King and Tristram Fearon. Grandmother of Jenney Petrikin, Peter and James Ayer, Elizabet
 ROTHSTEIN-Henriette. Died age 78 of cardiac arrest May 8 at home Glen Cove, NY. Survived by husband Arnold; daughter Amy, grandson Adrian Elfersy. Chapel service was at Gutterman's Woodbury, NY, burial Mt Hope Cemetery, Hastings-On-Hudson. All who knew her loved and honored her.       
 BARTLE-Annette Gruber (Hania). Died May 25. A dear friend, gifted artist, writer, journalist, world traveler, teacher, linguist, community volunteer, and lover of nature, astronomy, and animals. She will be remembered with respect and love and greatly missed by Halinka, Sally, Janet and Jer
 BLACK-Selma. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society express profound sorrow at the loss of Selma Black of Portland, Maine. We extend heartfelt condolences to her son, Scott Black, a visionary supporter who spearheaded the innovative Scott Black Executive Management P
 COHEN-Arlene Licht, on May 30, 2000. Loving mother of Stephanie, Jason and Dara. Beloved sister of Louise Ungar (Louis) and Arnold Licht (Susan). Devoted daughter of Esther and the late Meyer Licht. Best possible aunt of Eliza and Jonah Licht, Joshua and Zachary Ungar. She was a teacher to 
 DAVIS-Ruth, died peacefully on May 31 at Elim Park, Cheshire, CT. Wife of the late Edward English, who predeceased her; wife of the late Robert Davis; beloved mother of Nancy Kaufmann; devoted grandmother of Sally Kirkpatrick and John Kaufmann; great grandmother of Molly and Gabriel Kirkpat
 DOLGER-Laura Z. May 31, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Henry Dolger. Loving mother of Jonathan and his wife Jane Isay, and Judith Widmann and her husband Roger. Cherished grandmother of Daniel and Leslie Widmann, Emily and Robert McBurney, and Kenneth Widmann. She will be deeply missed 
 LARSEN-Patricia Pike. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art and its International Council and staff are deeply saddened by the passing of Patricia Larsen, a longtime friend of the Museum, a donor to its collection, and a treasured member of the Council since 1970. We remember h
 SILVER-Dorothy, on June 1, 2000. Beloved wife of Allan Silver. Loving mother of Laurie (John) Wells. Adoring grandmother of Meagan. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday, June 4, 9:45 AM. Contributions in her memory may be made to the American Cancer Society.   
 CHANDLER-Sylvia (nee Brody). On June 1, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Herbert S. Chandler. Loving sister of Jenette Brody Rattiner of Pompano Beach, FL, and the late Dr. Matthew Brody of Brooklyn and Helen Brody Siner Weissman of NYC. Loving mother of Elsie and David and grandmother of Pho
 COOPER-Joy Rhodes, of Millwood, NY on January 24, 2000. Mrs. Cooper was a former U.N. Representative of the Overseas Education Fund of the League of Women Voters, active board member of the Bancroft School, in Haddonfield, NJ, and an Executive VP of Whiteswan Uniforms in Yonkers. She is the
 FOWLER - Dorothy Ganfield, Waukesha, WI formerly of London Terrace Apartments, 460 W. 24th Street, New York, died Saturday, May 27, 2000. She was born July 2, 1902. She was predeceased by her mother and father, sisters: Jane Ganfield of Lafayette, Indiana and Elizabeth Ganfield Laatsch of W
 HOLOF-Georgia Bogardus, on June 1, 2000. Loving and best friend of her husband, Robert. Irreplaceable mother of Amy. Caring sister-in-law to Harry and Norma Holof. Loving aunt of Richard, Linda and Katy, and loyal friend to many. Service Sunday 11:15AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and
 LIPOW-Betty, 91, died peacefully on May 30 in Oakland, Ca. She is survived by her husband, Julius, and will be missed dearly by her son, Peter of Berkeley, and granddaughter, Danielle of Washington, DC. Born in NYC, she graduated from Eastern District H.S. She and Julius moved to San Diego 
 SILVER-Dorothy, on June 1, 2000. Beloved wife of Allan Silver. Loving mother of Laurie (John) Wells. Adoring grandmother of Meagan. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Sunday, June 4, 9:45 AM. Contributions in her memory may be made to the American Cancer Society. SI
 SLOBODIEN-Frances. On May 31, 2000. Devoted wife of Kassel (predeceased). Beloved mother of Sophia and Jack. Dear sister of Ernie and Roz, and adoring aunt and great aunt. May she be conducted to a place of happiness, comfort, and eternal refreshment. Funeral services will be held Sunday, 1
 SPRINGER-Sylvia, age 95, on June 1, 2000, in the aftermath of a broken hip operation. The beloved mother of Julie Springer, Dr. Philip Springer and the late Anthony Springer, Esq. She was a fine pianist in her earlier years, a student of the renowned pianist Clarence Adler. Her noble nature
 TOUGER-Mildred. Born 1915 New York City. Died June 1, 2000. She received her B.A. from Hunter College and worked for Health and Hospitals Corporation of NYC. Beloved aunt, great-aunt and friend to many. Donations to the charity of the donor's choice.       
 FELSEN-Esther. June 3, 1921 to June 28, 1998. Remembered and missed every day. Her loving family       
 ALTENAU-Grace Anna. Dr. Grace, well loved Pediatrician and long time resident of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn and Breezy Point, Queens died Friday, June 2nd, 2000 at age 91. She is survived by her son, John Holland Cassity and her daughter Adelaide VanNuys Cassity. Visitation is Wednesday, June 7 2-
 BEIL-Barbara. Beloved wife of Sheldon. My beloved wife died June 3rd, 2000. Vivacious, beautiful, compassionate and with a dynamic spirit, she sparked my days and illuminated my nights. She added enrichment to life and fulfilled her last few years with spirit, strength and a zest to live. S
 BERGER-Cirel. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its member, Danielle Berger. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 BIRNBAUM-Sarah. On May 30, 2000. Dear sister of Charlotte Panzer. Devoted wife of the late Dr. David Birnbaum. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Adele and Abraham Eckstein, Mamie and Paul Haberfield. Cherished grandmother of Sharon and Larry, Miriam and Ron, Shulamith and Jonathan, Rebecca
 HOLOF-Georgia Bogardus, on June 1, 2000. Loving and best friend of her husband, Robert. Irreplaceable mother of Amy. Caring sister-in-law to Harry and Norma Holof. Loving aunt of Richard, Linda and Katy, and loyal friend to many. Service Sunday 11:15AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and
 ISAACS-Helene. AMIT is deeply grieved by the untimely passing of our beloved past Director of Programming in America and Israel. A true ''woman of valor,'' Helene Isaacs, in her long Jewish communal service career, taught us all how to love, cherish, and appreciate Torah values, the State o
 LEVINE-Herman, 92, of Sudbury, MA, formerly of Margate, FL and Queens, NY, May 27, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Lottie Levine, father of Barbara Schmidt and Carol Levin and her husband Marty, grandfather of Michelle Howard and Danielle Levin. In lieu of flowers, remembrances may be mad
 SCHNEIDER-Dr. Miriam. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our charter member, Miriam Schneider. She was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to her daughters, Joan and Susan, and the entire family. Joel Jacobson, Pres
 SHAPIRO-Norma. Loving wife, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt and friend to many, died peacefully at home after a courageous battle with lung cancer. Her warmth, love, style and kindness will be missed by all who knew her. Memorial services are at the Riverside Chapel, 76th St. and Amsterda
 SLOBODIEN-Frances. On May 31, 2000. Devoted wife of Kassel (predeceased). Beloved mother of Sophia and Jack. Dear sister of Ernie and Roz, and adoring aunt and great aunt. May she be conducted to a place of happiness, comfort, and eternal refreshment. Funeral services will be held Sunday, 1
 VALINOTI-Virginia A. on June 2, 2000 of Plandome Manor, NY. Beloved wife of Joseph R. Dear mother of Joseph III, Virginia Oates, Richard and Jean Stern. Also survived by 5 grandchildren. Sister of Isabel Ferrara & Thomas Ferrara. In repose at The Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd
 ROKHOLT-Denise Anne (Gallagher). Age 40, of Dover, MA, formerly of Riverside, CT, former Vice President of ABN-Ambro Bank, NYC. Beloved wife of Trond O. Rokholt. Loving mother of Thomas O.W. and Christina H. Rokholt. Dear daughter of Joseph A. Gallagher of Arlington, VA, and the late Denise
 WALSH-Charlotte V. (Dolly). In her 95th year. Wife of the late Edward and mother of the late Thomas J. Walsh, S.J. Survived by her son Edward, five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Reposing at Conway Funeral Home, Northern Boulevard and 83rd St, Jackson Heights, Monday, 2-5 and 7
 BERKOWITZ-Enid, 67, formerly of Flushing, New York, passed away at her residence in West Palm Beach, Florida on Monday, June 5, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Bryant, devoted mother of Andree, Matthew, and Jack; cherished grandmother of Michael; Dear sister of Joan, Daveda and the late Mart
 DANA-Bess. The Board and staff of Partnership for Caring mourn the passing of Bess Dana. A longtime member of the Board of Directors of Choice In Dying, one of our predecessor organizations, Mrs. Dana worked tirelessly to improve the care of the terminally ill and to gain recognition for th
 KATZMAN-Karen E. The law firm of Kaye, Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Handler, LLP, mourns the untimely loss of their partner, colleague and friend, Karen E. Katzman, who died on Saturday, June 3, 2000. Ms. Katzman began her career at Kaye, Scholer in 1974 after graduating from the Harvard Law Sc
 KLAPPHOLZ-Esther. June 1, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Kurt Klappholz. Loving mother of David and Lisa Klappholz, Ruby and Alvin Newman, and Shelley Klappholz and Paul Compton. Adored grandmother of Michael, Kurt, and Amy Newman, Boaz Klappholz, and Hadas and Nadav Klappholz-Compton
 MACLEAN-Barbara Barondess. Died May 31 at Beth Israel Hospital. Born, Brooklyn 07/04/08. Mrs. MacLean was a Broadway and Hollywood actor. The Barbara Barondess Foundation will continue it's work in her name. Mrs. MacLean leaves no survivors. Memorial will take place Monday, June 12th at 6:3
 MULVEY-Kathleen Cannon (nee Bergin). Of Carlow, Ireland. Beloved wife of the late James. Loving mother of Madeleine Conlon and Katie. Devoted grandmother of Kieran, Emmet and Kate Conlon. Reposing Hillebrand Funeral Homes, 63-17 Woodhaven Boulevard, Rego Park, NY. Visiting Tuesday, 7-9PM an
 NIEPORENT-Sybil Trent. On June 5, 2000. Devoted wife of the late Andrew Nieporent. Loving mother of Tracy and Drew. Wonderful grandmother to Matthew, Robert, Andrew and Gabrielle. Devoted friend to so many people who she touched with her warmth, laughter and compassion. Her performances on 
 ROSEN-Ida. Sisterhood of Park East Synagogue sorrowfully mourns the passing of our dedicated Recording Secretary of the Board of Trustees. Her devotion over many years was greatly appreciated. Her kindness and compassion were an inspiration to all. Heartfelt condolences to her sons and the 
 SCHNEIDER - Miriam Levine. June 1. Lake Worth, Fl. Beloved mother, grandmother, sister, aunt and wonderful friend to all. Her spirit will live on in the hearts of all who loved her. Memorial service June 25, Great Neck, N.Y.       
 TURK-Everett. Of NYC and Putnam Valley, died on June 4, 2000. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of Melissa and her husband, Lee Rosenwasser. Adoring grandfather of Kate and Eliza and loving brother of Sheldon and Burton. Services Wednesday, June 7, 11:30 AM at Gramercy Park Memoria
 ALTENAU-Grace, M.D. Her friends and colleagues at Lutheran Medical Center mourn the loss of Dr. Grace Altenau. Most recently an honorary member of our staff, Dr. Altenau began her affiliation with Lutheran Medical Center in 1936 when she served her internship and residency in Pediatrics at 
 LANDEGGER-Cecilia. June 5, 2000. Beloved mother of Christine Mroczek, Cary Landegger, Claudia Malaya, Celia Landegger and the late Carl Michael Landegger. Grandmother of ten. Devoted sister of the late Elena Ugarte. She was the daughter of the late Joaquin Elizalde who was the Philippine am
 McCOLLUM-Katharine. Died at home on Saturday, June 3, 2000, at age 76. She was a dear aunt to Judy and Peter Brase. Daughter of Peter C. Brase and Katharine Stark Brase of Little Neck. She served in the U.S. Army in World War II, graduated from Barnard College, and taught in the New York pu
 SCHWARTZ-Rose, wife of David H. Schwartz and mother of Elliot and Judy Schwartz; Susan and Daniel Sklarin; and Donna and Robert Aschheim; sister of Ruth Weissberg; and Dovid Schisgal (Israel) passed away on June 5, 2000. She is also survived and mourned by her grandchildren, Rachel and Harr
 SHANDELL-Celia S. Age 90, a strong and remarkable woman. Beloved sister of Rose, loving mother of Doris, Fred and Amy. Adored Grandma of Beth, Joanne, Stacey, Jonathan, Kate and Michael, and Nana to Emily, Daniel, Jed and Calvin. We loved her a bushel and a peck. Services Thursday, June 8 a
 WERBER-Freda (''Mrs. Murray''). On June 4, 2000, in her 93rd year. Adoring and cherished wife for 70 years of Murray, z'l; loving and beloved mother of Judith Mandelbaum, z'l, and of Victor; devoted and dearly loved grandmother, great-grandmother, aunt, greataunt, cousin, and friend. A Very
 Sybil Trent, a veteran of the golden age of radio and a star of the Saturday-morning children's radio show ''Let's Pretend,'' died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. The cause was lymphoma, said her son Drew Nieporent, the restaurateur. Ms. Trent's voice was fir
 DEL TREDICI-Helen. Died May 19, 2000 of leukemia and cancer. Beloved mother of five children, Pulitzer Prize-winning composer David Del Tredici of New York City, Robert Del Tredici of Montreal, Canada, Richard Del Tredici of Pleasanton, Calif, Peter Del Tredici of Watertown, Mass, and Ann D
 FINE-Rose. Veteran school teacher for TV and film children in the '60s, '70s and '80s, died at her Studio City, California home on June 5, 2000. She is survived by her husband, Sidney Fine, to whom she was married for 75 years; a daughter, Judith L. Simcoe, five grandchildren and four great
 KING-Deborah, M. Died June 3 in E. Hampton. Cherished sister of Dorothy W. King, dearly loved cousin of Suzanne Gatehouse, beloved niece of Charles C. Bingham, Esq., and Father John K. Bingham, S.J.; aunt, cousin, friend and inspiration to all of her family, and countless friends, who adore
 LANDEGGER-Cecilia. June 5, 2000. Beloved mother of Christine Mroczek, Cary Landegger, Claudia Malaya, Celia Landegger and the late Carl Michael Landegger. Grandmother of ten. Devoted sister of the late Elena Ugarte. She was the daughter of the late Joaquin Elizalde who was the Philippine am
 SMITH-Mary Thornton, 93, June 3 at home. At The Brearley School in NYC she acted as secretary and assistant to the head of the lower school for 48 years. She took an active interest in protecting the environment through many conservation organizations and was an advocate for endangered spec
 AUERBACH-Sylvia ''Sally''. Beloved sister, aunt and friend. Lifelong resident of NYC died June 7, 2000 in Queens. She was a longtime employee of the New York Times. She was a graduate of New York School for the Deaf, Fanwood. She was very active in the Hebrew Association of the Deaf, The Fa
 DEAN-Jacque. Passed over on June 6, 2000. An extraordinary presence in this life, she will be missed by her many friends and by the countless animals she helped in one way or another. A glorious voice has fallen silent but a free spirit is finally free. Blessed be. Her loving husband, Irven
 FURMAN-Mary H. Of Chatham, NJ on June 7, 2000. Devoted daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Albert M. Hartung. Beloved wife of the late Earle L. Furman, DDS. Survived by three loving children and their spouses: Marilyn F. and Thomas D. O'Donnell of New York, NY; Richard E. and Carolyn W. Furman of Hick
 LANDEGGER-Cecilia. June 5, 2000. Beloved mother of Christine Mroczek, Cary Landegger, Claudia Malaya, Celia Landegger and the late Carl Michael Landegger. Grandmother of ten. Devoted sister of the late Elena Ugarte. She was the daughter of the late Joaquin Elizalde who was the Philippine am
 REISMAN-Ethel I., of Miami Beach, at age 94. Preceeded in death last year by her loving husband of 70 years, Simon (Cy). Survived by son James, of NYC, and adoring grandchildren Adam, of Washington D.C. and Leah of NYC, devoted nephew Paul Sussman of Hollywood, FL, and caring neices Joanne 
 VISHNER-Esther Dobkin. 90, formerly of the Bronx, died May 22 under care of friends in Oxnard, CA. Illness only deprived Esther of her independence in her last two months. Esther didn't have an easy life, but no one would have known it. Her infectious laughter and positive outlook were a gi
 BENTON-SINGER-Marianne. On June 8th. Loving wife of Richard. Mother of Jason Zeif and Kate Singer. Friends may call at the Beecher Funeral Home, 418 Bedford Rd., Pleasantville, NY., Sunday 2-4 and 7-9pm. Funeral services Monday 10AM, Church of St. John and St. Mary, Chappaqua, NY. Her coura
 DRAPER-Dorothy S. Died peacefully in her sleep at Beth Israel Hospital on the morning of June 9, 2000. She will be missed terribly by all those who survived her: her son, Roger; her sister, Ruth Samberg; her brother-in-law, Mike Samberg; her niece and her nephew-in-law, Eslee Samberg and Er
 FURMAN-Mary H. Of Chatham, NJ on June 7, 2000. Devoted daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Albert M. Hartung. Beloved wife of the late Earle L. Furman, DDS. Survived by three loving children and their spouses: Marilyn F. and Thomas D. O'Donnell of New York, NY; Richard E. and Carolyn W. Furman of Hick
 SCHULMAN-Rosalind Blum, of New York City, age 90, passed away peacefully in her sleep on June 9, 2000. Beloved mother of Susan Linda Schulman and the late Donald M. Schulman, devoted grandmother of Robin Schulman Torriero, loving great-grandmother of Jenifer, Lisa and Jessica, and adored wi
 Anna Sosenko, the songwriter who wrote ''Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup,'' the manager of Hildegarde -- the legendary cabaret personality who made the song famous -- and the impresario of stage specials that featured such performers as Mary Martin and Ethel Merman, died Friday at her home i
 DANA-Bessie. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Bessie Dana, MSW, Professor Emerita of the Department of Community and Preventive Medicin
 FURMAN-Mary H. Of Chatham, NJ on June 7, 2000. Devoted daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Albert M. Hartung. Beloved wife of the late Earle L. Furman, DDS. Survived by three loving children and their spouses: Marilyn F. and Thomas D. O'Donnell of New York, NY; Richard E. and Carolyn W. Furman of Hick
 HENLE-Edith F. in her 100th year. Beloved cousin of Joan Lekisch Goldstein of St. Louis, Jackie Lekisch Lantz of Columbus, Ken Lekisch of Atlanta and many who passed before her. Private services will be held through Riverside Chapel.       
 KRAMER-Katherine (nee Kolodny), 76, died on June 9, after a brief illness. Born in New York, and long residing in Oakdale, she was a dedicated and skilled social worker. Beloved wife of the late poet Aaron Kramer, mother of Carol of Tucson and Laura of Montclair, and grandmother of Nora and
 LLOYDS-Beverly. On June 10, 2000. Wife of the late Lloyd Lloyds. Much loved mother of Pattie Tunnell, Peter and Tina Tuttman. Grandmother of David Prince, Sean and Lauren Tuttman. Services and interment private. LLOYDS-Beverly. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records w
 SCHREIBER-Elsa (nee Beckers) on May 11, 2000. Age 97. In West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Otto A. Schreiber. Dear mother of Peter and Lee. Also survived by 4 grandchildren and 6 great - grandchildren. Memorial Service June 14th at 11am at St. Stephen's Church, Ridgefield, CT. I
 SOSENKO-Anna. On June 9, 2000. Dear sister of Ruth Goodman and Jay Jerome. Loving aunt of Rebecca and Arthur Silver, Daniel and Sally Goodman, Andrew and Dory Goodman, Renee and Yossi Schwarz, and Stephen Jerome. She will be profoundly missed by her family and a worldwide circle of friends.
 DONOW-Diane Gail, age 51; Beloved wife of Robert Urowsky; loving mother of Gena and David; dear sister of Shelley and Allen Donow; cherished daughter of Hyman and Matilda Donow. Services Tuesday June 13, 2000, 11 AM, at Temple Sholom of Chicago, 3480 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago. Interme
 LASSER-Rosalind. Beloved sister of Muriel Simon Goldblatt. Loving mother of Jon, Richard and the late Bruce Lasser. Caring aunt of Bruce Fink and Robin Slavitsky. Great-aunt of David, Jason and Laura Fink. Dear grandmother of Jonny and Rachel Lasser, children of Jon Lasser, Cory Opalenik La
 POTRUCH-Rosa. Of Rye, NY. Died June 9, 2000, at age 98. Mother of Miriam. Grandmother of Jessica, mother-in-law of Rabbi Robert Rothman. She was a brilliant scientist, a beautiful and elegant lady, multifaceted, multilingual, always charming and always interested in people. She will be miss
 SCHULMAN-Rosalind Blum, of New York City, age 90, passed away peacefully in her sleep on June 9, 2000. Beloved mother of Susan Linda Schulman and the late Donald M. Schulman, devoted grandmother of Robin Schulman Torriero, loving great-grandmother of Jenifer, Lisa and Jessica, and adored wi
 ALESSI-Frances (nee Rollomann). Retired from Scott Foresman Publishing Company after 47 years of faithful service. Beloved wife of the late George N. She will be deeply missed by her many friends and family. Visiting on Wednesday, June 14, 2000 from 1011 AM with Religious Services at 10:30 
 BECKER-Beverley Compton, died on June 10, 2000. She is survived by her loving husband Richard, 4 children and 4 grandchildren. A service will be held at the Church of the Resurrection, Rye, New York, at 4 P.M. on Wednesday.       
 BRENNGLASS-Terry. We deeply mourn the passing of Terry, a longtime Board Member and a generous supporter of Re'uth. We extend our sincere sympathy to her family. Ursula Merkin, Chairman Rosa Strygler, President BRENNGLASS-Theresa (Terry). Congregation Orach Chaim records with profou
 CARP-Edith. On June 12, 2000, age 90. Born in New York City, 1909. Beloved widow of Solomon P. Carp, she is survived by her son, Dr. Mason J. Carp. She lived in the Jewish Home of Greater Harrisburg. Services are Tuesday, June 13, at 12:30 PM, Mt. Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY.       
 GALST-Sandi. On June 12, 2000 at her home after fighting a valiant battle with cancer. Devoted wife of Jerald. Cherished mother of David, Elizabeth, and Jonathan. Loving grandmother of Zachary, Scott, and Joshua. Dear sister of Ronald and Richard Rubinstein and SuZen. Adored mother-in-law o
 GERSEN-Sylvia on June 11, 2000. We shared a life for over 50 years. Reaching the Millennium as she attained the age of 90 was an unexpected bonus. The oft repeated characterization of a gallant dispute with cancer was literally true in her case. We even spent the night before her brain surg
 GREENBERG - Ruth Frances, born January 3, 1934; died June 11, 2000. Daughter of world renowned tympanist Saul Goodman and award winning cellist Lillian Rehberg, she graduated from the Fieldston School of New York and attended the University of Wisconsin and Columbia. An active member in num
 LAZARUS-Sylvia (aka Cynthia Colby). On June 12, 2000 in her 91st year. Daughter of the late Leon and Harriet Lazarus. Survived by her sister Jeanne L. Freidenberg, her niece Margot Hentoff and nephew Joseph L. Meyer. Funeral private.       
 LEEDS-Sylvia (nee Tenenbaum, 82, of Monroe, Twp. on June 12 at her residence. She is survived by her beloved husband of 58 yrs. Dr. Leonard, 2 sons Ronald and Richard, a daughter Andrea Eisenberg, 2 brothers Herman and Norman Tenenbaum and 6 grandchildren. Services will be 11:30 AM Tues. Ju
 MANEALOFF-Molly. On June 4, in her 90th year, Aunt Molly left us. She will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Memorial service, Sunday, June 25, 2:30 PM, New York Ethical Culture Society, Central Park West & 64th St.       
 PHILMUS-Harriett C., public relations executive and writer, died June 9. She was 76 and lived in Vieques, P.R. She is mourned by her former husband, James E. Pitt; three children: David E. Pitt, Timothy E. Pitt, and Debra E. Pitt; and three grandchildren. A private memorial is planned.     
 RAND-Phyllis McElhone. Beloved wife of the late Thorburn Rand. Devoted stepmother of Laurence C. Rand, Winston F. Rand, Heather R. Beardsley and Renee R. Rand and 12 step-grandchildren. Memorial services at St. Thomas Church, Fifth Ave at 53rd St. on June 14, 2000 at 11:00 AM. In lieu of fl
 SCHULMAN-Rosalind Blum. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of Rosalind Schulman. Rosalind was instrumental in founding our Schnurmacher Nursery and Rabbi Gunter Hirschberg Elementary Division. Our deepest sympathy is extended to her beloved daughter Susan, and all her dear ones. Ro
 SOSENKO-Anna. Dear friend, mentor, and sustainer of the Russian Tea Room. Her wit and wisdom will be irreplaceable in our lives. Faith Stewart-Gordon SOSENKO-Anna. With deep sorrow, we regret the passing of our friend & colleague, Anna Sosenko. The Officers and Board of Directors So
 STEINER-Minnie. Loving wife of Harry. Adored mother of Steven and Carole. Devoted grandmother of Gail, Rachel, Jonathan and Ariel. Cherished sister of Pauline and Mitchell. Services were held at Sinai Chapel, Flushing on Monday. Shiva will be held through Thursday at her home.       
 ZIMMERMAN-Evelyn. On June 10, 2000. Of Spring Valley. Survived by her sister and brother-in-law, Lorraine and Seymour Postal of Spring Valley. Her niece, Roberta Wiener and nephews Eric, Kenneth and Steven. Ms. Zimmerman was a veteran of WW II as an Army Nurse, attaining the rank of Captain
 BRODY-Frances. Of Scotch Plains, NJ and Delray Beach, FL, passed peacefully in her sleep on Tuesday morning, June 13, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Brody, co-founder of Pathmark Supermarkets, adored mother and mother-in-law of Susanne Brody, & Gary Cohen, Wendy & Gordon Keil, Patti
 GODDARD-Ruth R. The American Jewish Committee bids a sorrowful farewell to an extraordinary woman who graced our organization with her generosity, elegance, friendship and vitality for more than half a century. Ruth served as Chair of our Women's Campaign Board and, in 1968, became the firs
 GOLDSHLAG-Helen L. Of NYC, formally of Peekskill, died on June 12, 2000 at her residence. She was 94. She is survived by a brother James Jacoby of Punta Gorda, Fl. And several generations of nieces and nephews. She was the wife of the late Louis P. Goldshlag and mother of the late Patricia 
 GOLDSTEIN-Rhoda M. On June 11, 2000. Beloved wife of Jay. Loving mother of Alysa Sasson and Karen Fenkell. Mother-in-law of Morris Sasson and David Fenkell. Grandmother of Sydney and Max Fenkell and Barry and Danielle Sasson. Sister of Linda Seaman. Services were held on Monday June 12, 200
 HERSHKOWITZ - Carrol (Tut tlman). Died peacefully at her home on June 8, 2000. She was predeceased by her husband Irving and son Warren. Service are private.       
 HOROWITZ-Clara. The Riverdale Jewish Center mourns the loss of our beloved member, Clara Horowitz. We express profound condolences to her children, Mina and Howard Millendorf, Sandra and Alex Bienenstock, and to all the grandchildren and great-grandchildren. May they be comforted amongst th
 MANEALOFF-Molly. On June 4, in her 90th year, Aunt Molly left us. She will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Memorial service, Sunday, June 25, 2:30 PM, New York Ethical Culture Society, Central Park West & 64th St.       
 NOVEMBER-Josephine, 94 years, of Great Neck, died on June 12, 2000. Widow of William. Mother of Robert and the late Peter and mother-in-law of Barbara and Eleanor. Grandmother of Michael (Debbie), Ellen (Peter) Rigby, Peter and David and great grandmother of Adam, Pauline and Hannah. Commun
 WEEBER-Marion. New York industrial designer of silverware and jewelry, died June 12, 2000 of a heart attack at Bellvue Hospital at the age of 94. She was trained at The Arts Students League of New York, where she became a Life Member, Honorary Member of The American Federation of Arts, and 
 Nora Kahn Piore, a New York economist and health policy expert, died Saturday at New York Hospital. She was 87 and lived in Greenwich Village. She suffered a brief illness, her family said. She was born in the Bronx, the daughter of Alexander Kahn, a founder of the New York 
 BECK-Clare Marshall. Of Whiting, Manchester Township, N.J. Formerly of Richmond Hill, N.Y. Died Monday at her home. She was 91. Born in Brooklyn. Lived in Richmond Hill, Queens before moving to Whiting in 1996. She was an executive secretary with Shields and Company, Wall Street, for 39 yea
 BRODY-Frances. The AntiDefamation League mourns the passing of Frances Brody, mother of Susanne Brody, a generous supporter of the League and longtime activist with our Connecticut Regional Board. We extend our condolences to Susanne and the entire family. Howard P. Berkowitz, National Chai
 BROWN-Norma, peacefully, at home, on June 14, 2000. Beloved mother of Marjorie and Martin, mother-in-law of Andrew & Nori, & proud and adored grandmother of Hayley, Jamie, Jordan & Joshua. Contributions in her memory may be sent to Hospice Care Network, 900 Merchants Concourse, Westbury, Ne
 BRYANT-Vivian Spaulding. Of Brooklyn and Sag Harbor, NY died peacefully on June 9, 2000 in Sarasota, FL at the age of 87. Beloved wife to Ages Bryant, sister to Hubert and Maymette Carter and E. G. and Teena Spaulding, andpredeceased by brother James Edwin Spaulding. Loving aunt to John and
 DALTON-Catherine J. Dr. Catherine J. Dalton, 83, died at home June 9, after a long illness. Born August 7, 1916 in Brooklyn, NY, Dr. Dalton graduated from NY Medical College in 1948. Following residency training, she was on the attending radiology staff at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital for
 de RUSSOW-Audrey Thrasher. Formerly of Old Field, NY died Friday, June 9 in Denver, CO. She was 78. Born June 24, 1921 in NYC she was the only child of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Leslie Thrasher (Janet van H. Jackson). Her father, Leslie, was a well known artist and illustrator during the 1920's 
 FORMAN-Joan R. Wife of the late Louis L. Forman. Beloved mother of Carole Falkenberg and Linda Banks and mother-in-law of Fred Falkenberg and Elliott Banks. Cherished grandmother of Steven, Wendy, Lauren and Kim. Mom, we love you. You will be forever missed. Service Thursday, June 15th, 11:
 GERSEN-Sylvia. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society express profound regret at the loss of Sylvia Gersen of New York City. We extend heartfelt condolences to her husband, Daniel, senior partner of our general counsel Gersen, Wood & Blakeman, whose learned advice an
 GODDARD-Ruth. The Board of Directors of the American Theatre Wing notes with sorrow the passing of our long time Board Member and devoted supporter, Ruth Goddard. Her presence will forever be missed. Isabelle Stevenson, Chairman Roy A. Somlyo, President GODDARD-Ruth R. On June 13th 
 HOLLANDER - Lillian. Your friends and neighbors at La Coquille would like to express our condolences to Fran Opengart, wife of our President Ed Opengart and her brother Matty Toubin on the loss of their mother, Lillian Hollander. May she rest in peace. La Coquille, Westhampton Beach       
 HOROWITZ-Florence Wein. Of Tamarac, FL. Passed away peacefully in her sleep at age 88 on Wednesday morning, June 14, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Morris Wein and the late Samuel Horowitz. Matriarch of a large and devoted family. Adored mother and mother-in-law of Stewart and Ina Wein, Don
 MANEALOFF-Molly. On June 4, in her 93rd year, Aunt Molly left us. She will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Memorial service, Sunday, June 25, 2:30 PM, New York Ethical Culture Society, Central Park West & 64th St.       
 MAXWELL-Anne L. Daughter of Effingham and Julia Lawrence, died May 27, 2000. Survived by her husband, Robert Maxwell of Canton, NC, and children, Stephen Kellogg of Mahopac, NY, Rebecca Muncy of Artesia, NM, and Alan Kellogg of Pine Hill, NY. Memorial service 12 Noon, Saturday, June 17, St.
 NOVEMBER-Josephine, 94 years, of Great Neck, died on June 12, 2000. Widow of William. Mother of Robert and the late Peter and mother-in-law of Barbara and Eleanor. Grandmother of Michael (Debbie), Ellen (Peter) Rigby, Peter and David and great grandmother of Adam, Pauline and Hannah. Commun
 RAND-Jean MacNeish. On June 13, 2000. Daughter to Harris Franklin MacNeish and Elizabeth Stockton, sister to Richard ''Scotty'' MacNeish. She earned a degree in art from Columbia University and went on to work at the American Museum of Natural History. She was an artist, teacher, gardener, 
 TINN-Frances. June 14, 2000. Beloved wife of Arthur. Adored mother and mother-in-law of Jonathan and Shelley, Eric and Caryn, Tod and Elizabeth Bogdanoff. Loving grandmother of four. Cherished sister and sister-in-law of Leo and Shirley Ditkoff and of her late siblings Bernard and Hannah Gu
 BERNSTEIN-Claire G., 92, on June 14, 2000. Daughter of the late Anna and Leon Gilbson, sister of Helen Trager, wife of the late Leo Bernstein and widow of Joseph Steinberger. She is remembered by her children, grandchildren and niece. Contributions in Claire's name may be made to the Henry 
 BRODY-Frances. The Officers and Board of Directors and Staff of the Jewish Federation of Central New Jersey express sincere condolences to the Brody Family on the loss of their beloved mother, grandmother, and sister, Frances Brody. Frances Brody was a true Woman of Valor, and will be deepl
 GLADSTONE - Minna. Beloved mother of Arthur Gladstone and Judith Fitting; grandmother of Jonathan Gladstone and Edythe and Robert Fensterman; Dr. Robert and Ellen Kingsley Hirshfeld; Melinda and Gary Nester and seven great grandchildren; precious wife of the late Fred Gladstone; sister of L
 GODDARD-Ruth. Who gave me a monther's love, unfaltering, limitless, and unconditional, and a star to hitch my wagon to. She is forever woven into the stuff of my self. Haima Dear Grandma Ruth, I miss you so much. You spoke to me almost every night. You gave me all your love. You will always
 GOONAN-Winifred B. (nee: Costello) on June 11 of Port St. Lucie, FL formerly of Queens Village, NY. Born in Leitrim, Loughrea, CO, Galway, Ireland. Beloved wife of the late Edward Francis. Loving mother of Edward, Brian, Michael, and Bernadette, dear sister of Ann and Jane. Cherished grandm
 KENT-Gloria B. Of Garden City, N.Y. died on June 13, 2000. She was 71. Wife of Herbert A. Kent. Mother of Karen Crape and Timothy Kent. Loving grandmother to Matthew, Andrew, Ashley, Andrea, Rebecca and Erica. Memorial Service Saturday, June 17th, 11am at Garden City Community Church at Ste
 KOTLER-Jeanne. (nee Greenfield.) Of Tamarac, FL, formerly of Long Beach, NY, passed away peacefully on June 14, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Devoted mother of Adrienne I. Kotler and Edwin R. and Sara E. Kotler. Cherished grandmother of David and Holly Kotler and Jayme and Stephen 
 NOVEMBER - Josephine. The Open Door Parent Child Caring Center of Great Neck mourns our esteemed and much loved Board member, Josephine November, who served as President for 2 of her 19 active years on our Board. Our deepest sympathies to her entire family. She will be missed. Randy Rothste
 PIORE-Nora Kahn. The faculty, students, alumni and staff of Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health mourn the passing of its esteemed faculty member, Nora Kahn Piore. A professor of public health economics from 1972 to 1982, she enjoyed a varied career that spanned fifty years working on
 SILVERMAN-Debbie. The Sisters of the Sigma Delta Tau Sorority, Alpha Chapter, Cornell University mourn the profound loss of our esteemed and storied alumni member and past president ('66) Debbie Silverman. Our sincerest condolences to Alan, Meredith and Jean. Becky Sendrow, Pres. Jolie Bell
 SILVERMAN-Deborah Halpern. 55, of Great Neck, NY. Died peacefully on June 15, 2000 at Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York. She was the daughter of the late Rabbi Harry Halpern and the late Mollie Singer Halpern. Surviving are her beloved and loving husband Alan, daughter Meredith, step-mother Jean
 SIMMONS-Bertha of New York City, NY on June 15. Devoted wife of the late Seymour Simmons. Loving mother of Mark and Marlene. Adoring grandmother of Carrie & Jason. Friend to many. She was born Oct. 28, 1910 in Russia and lived in Berlin, Paris and arrived in NY in 1939. Her volunteer work a
 TROPPER-Yetta. SAR Academy mourns the passing of the adoring wife of Abraham, beloved mother of our friend. supporter and former Trustee, David. Loving mother-in-law of our Trustee Ina. May the entire family find solace in her memory and be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem
 Ruth R. Goddard, a leader of the American Jewish Committee for more than 50 years who was also active in many other philanthropies in New York, died Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 98. In 1968, she was the first woman to be elected a national vice pr
 AXTON-April Ruth. On June 14, 2000 at home, age 97. A supporter of the arts, who had a great love for music. Her friendship, joy for life and style will be greatly missed by her many friends. Reposing at Frank E. Campell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St, Wednesday, June 21, 6:30-8:30PM. Funera
 WEINBERG-Irene J., of Yonkers, NY, on June 12th, 2000. Beloved wife, devoted mother, loving grandmother, cherished sister, and special friend. With a heavy heart, we mourn the sudden loss of this extraordinary woman who brought joy, comfort, and guidance to us all. She filled our livesand o
 CHAPIN, ELIZABETH STEINWAY. Betty left us seven years ago. This year her two older grandchildren graduated from college summa cum laude, another sign of her incredible loving spirit and accomplishment moving to the next generation. Schuyler, Henry and Betsy, Ted and Joanna, Sam and Caroline
 Ruth Rubin, a scholar, collector and performer of Yiddish folk songs who lugged a tape recorder into hundreds of immigrants' living rooms in an effort to preserve a vanishing cultural tradition, died on Sunday in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She was 93. A resident of the Sarah R. Neumann Nursin
 Natalie Davis Spingarn, a medical writer who endured multiple bouts of cancer and became a prominent spokeswoman for cancer survivors, died on June 6 in Washington. She was 78. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her son Jonathan said. Mrs. Spingarn's latest book, ''The New Can
 AXTON-April Ruth. On June 14, 2000 at home, age 97. A supporter of the arts, who had a great love for music. Her friendship, joy for life and style will be greatly missed by her many friends. Reposing at Frank E. Campell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St, Wednesday, June 21, 6:30-8:30PM. Funera
 BLUMENSON-Lillian (nee Shultz). 87, of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Bronx, NY. Beloved wife of the late George. Devoted mother of Lester and Genia. Dear sister of Cy Shultz and the late Ethel Cooper. Loving grandmother of Ellen and Michael, Bonnie, Stacey and Eric. Cherished great-grand
 FOLSTEIN-Ruth. Our dear friend with whom we shared so much of our lives. We will cherish her memory. The Harvey Garner family       
 GLADSTONE - Minna. Beloved aunt. She will be remembered for her love of life and her devotion to the family. Gladstone Family Circle       
 GODDARD-Ruth R. A memorial service for Ruth will be held on Wednesday, June 21st, at 11 AM at Bethel Chapel of Temple EmanuEl, 1 E. 65th St. between 5th and Madison. For more information, call the American Jewish Committee at 212-751-4000 ext. 206. GODDARD-Ruth. She came into our li
 GREENBERG - Laury, passed away on June 1st, 2000 in Torrington, CT. Director/owner of Camp Birchwood for more than 30 years, she is survived by her loving husband, Jerry; her children, Mara, Mark and Lida; and her grandchildren, Reyna, Bart, Jeremy, Isabelle and Max. Contributions in her me
 HOUSE-Karen E. June 12, 2000. Daughter of Reese M. and Sally (Brooks) House. Sister of M. Kelly House. She is also survived by her father's partner Ted Guthrie. Residence: NYC and formerly of Boston and Portland, OR. A celebration of her life will be held Tuesday at 7 PM, in the Great Hall 
 KAUFMAN-Greta. Died May 30, 2000 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Howard. Adored, cherished and devoted mother of Laurie. Dear sister of Harold Hoffman. Always a New Yorker in heart and spirit. A unique personality, she will be remembered for her indomitable will in facing lif
 KNAPP-Lucille Gale. Died peacefully in her home at Wolsey Farm, Mt. Kisco, NY, on June 16, 2000, at the age of 94. This extraordinary woman was an avid supporter of the arts and had a great love for music. Her style, spirit and love for life will be greatly missed by her family and friends.
 NOVEMBER-Josephine, 94 years, of Great Neck, died on June 12, 2000. Widow of William. Mother of Robert and the late Peter and mother-in-law of Barbara and Eleanor. Grandmother of Michael (Debbie), Ellen (Peter) Rigby, Peter and David and great grandmother of Adam, Pauline and Hannah. Commun
 SMITH-Joan J., age 65 of Denver, Colorado since 1968 died June 8. A Memorial Mass was held Tuesday June 13, at Christ The King Catholic Church in Denver. Joan was born on April 24, 1935 in Brooklyn, New York where she married Paul B. Smith on August 30, 1958 at The Church of the Holy Name. 
 TONACHEL-Elizabeth Lucas. On June 11, 2000. Sister of Albert and George Rodman Lucas and the late Frances Wharton Quinn; widow of Gerard Tonachel; stepmother to Pierre and Richard Tonachel, Nancy T. Gabriel and the late David Tonachel. Loyal friend, advisor and confidante to her nieces, gra
 TROPPER-Yetta. Our heartfelt condolences to Rabbi Dr. Daniel Tropper, founder of Gesher, our Honorary President David Tropper, and the entire Tropper family on the passing of their beloved mother, wife, grandmother, greatgrandmother and sister. She was an extraordinary inspiration to all wh
 Jane Prizant Gilman, a lawyer who was long active in civic, civil  rights and political organizations, died June 7 in Middletown, N.Y. She was 73 and lived in Hudson, N.Y., and Middletown. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Gilman studied at 
 AXTON-April Ruth. On June 14, 2000 at home, age 97. A supporter of the arts, who had a great love for music. Her friendship, joy for life and style will be greatly missed by her many friends. Reposing at Frank E. Campell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St, Wednesday, June 21, 6:30-8:30PM. Funera
 GODDARD-Ruth. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Ruth Goddard. To her family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert A. Bernhard, Presid
 GREENBERG - Laury, passed away on June 1st, 2000 in Torrington, CT. Director/owner of Camp Birchwood for more than 30 years, she is survived by her loving husband, Jerry; her children, Mara, Mark and Lida; and her grandchildren, Reyna, Bart, Jeremy, Isabelle and Max. Contributions in her me
 HELLERSTEIN-Rose. 96 years old. Beloved wife of the late Max. Devoted mother of Alvin and the late Helene. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Services Monday, 12:30 PM, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and 91st Street. HELLERSTEIN-Rose. The Jewish Center mourns the 
 KIGNER-Irma. On June 18, at home. Beloved wife of the late David. Cherished mother of Kathryn (with Dave), Jonathan (with Laurie), and Jane (with Nicholas). Adored grandmother of Stacey and Ross. Devoted sister of Robert Kaplan (with Madeline). Dear aunt and great-aunt of six. Loved by all 
 ROSE-Pauline. Widow of Bennett Rose, devoted mother of Peter Rose, Judy and Michael Margulies, doting grandmother of Arthur and David Margulies and Jennifer Ginsberg, loving and adored aunt and friend, died in her 91st year. She was a role model for several generations of admirers. Always g
 STOLIAR-Joan. On June 18, 2000, a woman of rare talents and unique dignity, understanding and warmth. She gave unsparingly of herself until her long-term bout with cancer took her suddenly and peacefully with her loved ones by her side. An award winning book designer and avid fly fisher, sh
 Nancy Marchand, the distinguished character actress who excelled at playing wise and imperious authority figures -- newspaper publishers, queens, grande dames and a madam -- and who achieved perhaps her greatest fame as the domineering mother of a mob boss in the television series ''The Sop
 ARONOWITZ-Sam. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with saddness the passing of Sam Aronowitz. Beloved father of Ellin Delsener and Carol Simon. We extend our deepest condolences to Ellin and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zuck
 AXTON-April Ruth. On June 14, 2000 at home, age 97. A supporter of the arts, who had a great love for music. Her friendship, joy for life and style will be greatly missed by her many friends. Reposing at Frank E. Campell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St, Wednesday, June 21, 6:30-8:30PM. Funera
 EINHORN-May Stern. Beloved wife of the late Richard. Loving and cherished mother and mother-in-law of Martin and Beth. Adored grandmother to Richie and Annabelle. She will be deeply missed by her family and friends. Funeral services at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 98-60 Queens Blvd., Tuesday, 
 HELLERSTEIN-Rose. AMIT is saddened by the passing of the beloved mother of our dear friend and supporter, Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein, and cherished mother-inlaw of our most dedicated Senior Vice President, Mildred Hellerstein. A true ''Woman of Valor'' who possessed charm and wit, Rose Hell
 NICKERSON-Virginia Moffat. It is with great sadness that the Trustees, staff, and volunteers of The Children's Aid Society acknowledge the loss of its Trustee. A long-time member of the Society's board, Virginia Nickerson chaired the 1200 member Volunteer committee. In 1997 she was singled 
 PETTI-Ruth. The Petti family grieves the passing of Ruth Petti, age 72, after a long 23 year, mostly successful, battle with breast cancer. Ruth leaves her husband of 50 years, Mario, her son Eugene and her daughter, Marla Levey and 3 grandchildren Evan, Alexander and Gabrielle. There will 
 ROSE-Pauline. Widow of Bennett Rose, devoted mother of Peter Rose, Judy and Michael Margulies, doting grandmother of Arthur and David Margulies and Jennifer Ginsberg, loving and adored aunt and friend, died in her 91st year. She was a role model for several generations of admirers. Always g
 SMITH-Elizabeth Campbell Watt, of Mill Neck, NY, on June 14th, 2000 in her 88th year after a brief illness. She attended St. Timothy's School, Maryland and was a member of Colonial Dames Parent Chapter. She was predeceased by her husband, William W. Smith, and survived by sons, W. Watt Smit
 STOLIAR-Joan. The Board of Directors of Theodore Gordon Flyfishers deeply mourns the passing of longtime Board member Joan Stoliar. Joan was the lightning rod and driving force behind TGF's Trout in the Classroom Program, which brought an awareness of the importance of a healthy aquatic env
 AXTON-April Ruth. On June 14, 2000 at home, age 97. A supporter of the arts, who had a great love for music. Her friendship, joy for life and style will be greatly missed by her many friends. Reposing at Frank E. Campell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St, Wednesday, June 21, 6:30-8:30PM. Funera
 CHEIFETZ-Natalie. Of Far Rockaway. Beloved wife of Edward. Mother of Steven, Barry and Jeffrey. Sister of Edward Epstein. Contributions to American Diabetes Association in her memory would be appreciated.       
 FORMAN-Zena. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Zena Forman, beloved mother of our esteemed member Bernice Forman Friedman. Mrs. Friedman is a member of the Board of Directors and sits on our Jewish Communal Network Commissio
 GODDARD-Ruth R. Truly a woman of the century, her enthusiasm for life and culture spanned many oceans and continents allowing four generations of our family to share in her warmth and caring love. We will miss you. Junko, Patrick and Mie Tam; Michi, Stephen, Matthew and Erica Ho (Japan and 
 MARGOLIS-Pearl. The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Georgetown Mews Owners Corp. deeply mourn the passing of our president and leader and offer our deepest sympathy to her daughter, Jobeth; son-in-law, Robert; and grandchildren, Jay and Lisa.       
 QUINN-Jordan Grace. June 19, 2000, infant daughter of Christopher J. Quinn and Marilyn F. McCauley, passed away Monday at Capital Health Systems at Mercer. Granddaughter of the late Mary E. Janakis Quinn and niece of the late Thomas McCauley; she is survived by her mother, Marilyn F. McCaul
 Elizabeth Dooley, who watched more than 4,000 consecutive Boston Red Sox home games over 55 seasons from her front-row box seat, died Monday in Boston, hours before her beloved Red Sox suffered a 22-1 beating from the Yankees. She was 87, a year younger than Fenway Park, the home of the Red
 Mary Benson, an author, journalist and political campaigner who wrote passionately about the struggle for racial equality in her native South Africa,  died at home in London on Monday, her literary agent, Felicity Bryan, said. She was 80. Miss Benson's books included a novel, ''At t
 BRONNER-Marilyn A. Zweck age 62, a resident of Vero Beach, Florida and summer resident of Dorset, Vermont for the past 11 years, died at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, NH following a courageous battle with cancer. Mrs. Zweck-Bronner was born in Westchester County, New Yo
 DANIEL-Ramona of 183 Good Hill Road, Weston, CT died May 28th at Norwalk (CT) Hospital, following an illness of 10 days. She was the wife of James Daniel, retired Roving Editor of Reader's Digest and the last of 7 daughters of Eladio Teijeiro and Ramona Alvarez of New York and Santiago de C
 DENNER-Ethel. Passed away peacefully on her birthday June 20 at the age of 90. Beloved wife of the late Dr. I. Charles Denner. Loving mother of Toby, Judith & Paula. Proud grandmother of Steven, Gail, Philip & Karen. Cherished great-grandmother of Lucas, Connor, Jamie, Benjamin & Cynthia. P
 PATTERSON-Leila, nee Delano, of Gladwyne, Pa., on June 19, 2000. Wife of the late A. Willing Patterson; mother of Leila Peck, of Wayne, Pa., and Eleanora Patteson of East Dummerston, Vt. Also survived by four grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Fri
 ROSE-Pauline. Shenkar College mourns the passing of Pauline Rose who with her husband Bennett Rose create the Rose Study Center for Textiles and Costumes, an important archival source in Israel. With condolences to her loving family, Judith and Michael Margulies and F. Peter Rose. David Per
 TRENCHER - Rose. Devoted friend of Ann and Martin Finegold and family. Her life and words will continue to inspire us. ''Be kind, be gracious, be considerate.'' May her memory be for a blessing. Helen, Jeff, and Edward Friedman TRENCHER-Rose. In loving memory of our dear Aunt Rose w
 BARRON-Jeanette. The Membership and Board of Governors of Ridgeway Country Club extends their condolences to the family of Jeanette Barron. Mrs. Barron and her late husband were longtime members of Ridgeway and will by missed. Ridgeway Country Club       
 BERGER-Bianca. The Board of Directors, Staff and members of the YM&YWHA of Washington Heights and Inwood express profound sorrow on the passing of Bianca Berger. For more than 30 years, she was a guiding force for our Senior Center having served as the Chairperson of the Advisory Council fo
 FOWLE-Phyllis L. Propp, 92, a retired lawyer and lieutenant-colonel in the Army Reserve, died June 22. In 1944 she was the first woman officer in the Army Judge Advocate's Generals Corps. The JAG cited her for this in April 1999 at a banquet at its school in Charlottesville, VA at which she
 McBRIDE-Dorothy Morante. Of Rye, New York, died June 21, 2000 at her home. She was 81. Born August 30, 1918 in New York City to John & Margaret Perdisatt Burke. Beloved wife of the late Harry T. McBride and the late Edward A. Morante. Devoted mother of Edward Morante of Palm Desert, CA, Bar
 REDISCH-Marianne. On June 21, 2000 at age 88. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Walter Redisch. Loving mother of Monica Ruth Berent and Margery Dorne and her husband Richard. Adoring grandmother of Jennifer, Christopher, Sabrina and Whitney. She will always be remembered for her kindness to othe
 ZWECK - BRONNER - Marilyn Anne. Age 62, a resident of Vero Beach, Florida and summer resident of Dorset, Vermont for the past 11 years, died at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, NH following a courageous battle with cancer. Mrs. Zweck-Bronner was born in Westchester County,
 ACKERMAN-Sarah, 81, of Coconut Creek, FL. Died June 21, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Aaron Ackerman. Adored mother of Beverly Allen, Marilyn Suzan and Larry Ackerman. Cherished grandmother of six and great grandmother of 3. Dearest friend to devoted, long-term caregiver, Charmaine Glegg a
 BELLEW-Theresa. (nee Walsh) Of Pearl River, NY, on June 23, 2000. Former school teacher at Marymount, Fifth Ave. She is survived by her husband, Patrick W. Bellew of Pearl River, her sister, Sister Claire of the Felician Sisters of Lodi, NJ and aunt, Ella Behan of North Arlington, NJ. Visit
 FOWLER-Dorothy Ganfield. The History Department of Hunter College regrets the death of Dorothy Ganfield Fowler, our colleague and friend. A respected scholar in United States history whose books include studies of the Postmasters General, sensorship in the post office and the First Presbyte
 McGOLDRICK-Thomas J. Died on June 22, 2000. Beloved husband of Rita Preisser McGoldrick. Loving father of Megan McGoldrick Donahue, Laura Preisser Grozier, Claire Preisser and grandfather of five. Dear brother of Maryellen McGoldrick Schwarz and her husband Carl. The family will receive fri
 ROSWICK-Ruth Edith. Passed away June 22. Beloved mother of Diana Burr and Janis Menken, grandmother of Anna, Nora, Jeremy and Kenny. Mother-in-law of Jamie and Alan. She will live in our hearts forever. Funeral service will be Sunday, June 25 promptly at 12 noon at Clark Associates Funeral 
 TRYNIN-Evelyn J. On June 22, 2000 at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Adored mother of Margot Aronsohn, Janet and James Stovin. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. She was loved by all who knew her. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday at
 BLUMBERG-Thelma. On June 15, 2000. Devotion to family; warm camaraderie with friends; an intellectual excursion starting at Lincoln HS and Brooklyn College and continuing through many elder hostels and the Brandeis University National Women's Committee; a satisfying career as a math teacher
 BONOMO-Michael J. age 78. June 20, 2000 in FL. Teacher, husband, father. Survived by wife Rosakate & her children & grandchildren, son Michael G., brother Vito.       
 CLAY-Helen LeRoy, died on June 21, 2000 at her home in Saint James, LI, NY. She was the wife of the late William L. Clay, Jr. She is survived by two sons William L. Clay III and George M. Clay. Burial will be private. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to: YMCA of Smithtown, POB 6
 FISHMAN-Maida L. For her devoted care & guidance of our youth, we are forever grateful. May fond memories bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. PTA High School for Environmental Studies, NYC       
 HOPP-Rosalind Thrope. 83, died peacefully on June 23 in New York City. Adored mother of Penny, Nancy, and Robert, and grandmother of David, Jeffrey, Amanda, Marisa, Dana, and Jenna, great-grandmother of Kaitlin, Allison, Ian, Matthew and Eric. Burial service to be held on Monday June 26 at 
 LAWRENCE-Elizabeth. Star of film, radio, stage and television, packed her backpack Friday, June 9 and started on a new adventure. Her films include ''Four Friends,'' ''The Crucible,'' ''Sleeping with the Enemy,'' ''The Butcher's Wife,'' ''Isn't She Wonderful?'', and an untitled film finishe
 LIBERMAN-James B. At home on June 22, 2000, at age 84. Beloved husband of Deen Freed Liberman and, after her death, of Nadine C. Zamichow, Father of Lee Liberman Otis and the late John Liberman, Father-in-law of Mary Beth Liberman Traynor and William G. Otis, Grandfather of Harry, Dean, Emm
 LYLES-Enid G. Passed away peacefully Wednesday morning, June 21 at the age of 75. Enid leaves behind her husband James, son Philip and sister Zelda who will carry with them her loving memory always.       
 REDISCH-Marianne. On June 21, 2000 at age 88. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Walter Redisch. Loving mother of Monica Ruth Berent and Margery Dorne and her husband Richard. Adoring grandmother of Jennifer, Christopher, Sabrina and Whitney. She will always be remembered for her kindness to othe
 ROSWICK-Ruth Edith. Passed away June 22. Beloved mother of Diana Burr and Janis Menken, grandmother of Anna, Nora, Jeremy and Kenny. Mother-in-law of Jamie and Alan. She will live in our hearts forever. Funeral service will be Sunday, June 25 promptly at 12 noon at Clark Associates Funeral 
 STOLL-Etta. The United Lieder Relief Society mourns the death of Etta Stoll, wife of Michael, Society President, on June 21st, in Pittsfield, MA. She leaves her husband, daughter Nancy and her son, Dr. Andrew Stoll and beloved grandchildren, Ian and Suzanne. She will be sorely missed.      
 TIMMONS-Monica. The women of Finch College mourn the untimely death of Monica. Generous, kind, highly respected in her profession. We pay tribute to her.       
 TRYNIN-Evelyn J. On June 22, 2000 at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Adored mother of Margot Aronsohn, Janet and James Stovin. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. She was loved by all who knew her. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday at
 Elsie Widdowson, a nutritionist who used the discipline of wartime rationing to prescribe the healthiest diet in British history, died in Cambridge on June 14. She was 93. The diet was an experimental plan for the goverment to promote for the citizens of Britain once its imports wer
 Joan Stoliar, a freelance book designer otherwise known as the den mother of New York fly-fishers, who took her love of pristine trout streams into city classrooms, died on June 18 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was c
 ABERBACH-Betty. A warm and loving salute to a caring, joyful, special wife, mother, grandmother, relative and dear friend. She will always be fondly remembered by all who knew her. Ed & Judith       
 DIJAK-Maike H. Age 37, died after a long illness, on May 21, 2000, in Augusta, ME. She graduated from Northeastern University in 1986 as a computer engineer. Most recently she worked for the State of Maine on the New England Child Support Enforcement System. She enjoyed reading and tutoring
 FELLER-Rosalind, 90, on June 15, 2000 Wife of Max, mother of Jonathan, Elizabeth and Katherine. Grandmother of Jennifer, Deborah and Joshua. An inspiration to all who knew her.       
 FRIEDMAN-Frances W. (October 9, 1931-June 23, 2000). Died Friday evening at Lenox Hill Hospital. She is survived by her devoted husband Jack and loving daughter Katie. Proud graduate of Radcliffe College, Class of 1952. Private memorial. FRIEDMAN-Frances W. Dearest Frannie: only dea
 HALPERN-Ruth. On June 24, of Great Neck. Beloved wife of the late Jesse. Devoted mother of Marc Halpern, Andrea Naft and Joel Halpern. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. Memorial services were held Sunday. Contributions may be made to the Lighthouse for the Blind. HALPERN-
 HUDSON-Angela T. On June 24, 2000. Wife of the late Raymond. Beloved mother of Mark, Laura Kimmins, Christopher and the late Jon. Sister of the late Mary and Rita Chinnery. Loving grandmother of seven and three great-grandchildren. Visiting Monday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at Clavin Funeral Home, 77
 KRAMER-Rose G. (nee Bernstein). Last of the Bernstein clan. 97 years young. Passed away Sunday, June 25, 2000 after a brief illness. Wife of the late William C., mother of J. Laurence (Laddie) and Minnette, Dr. Marc B. and Diane; grandmother of David and Ronni, Bari and Peter, Penny and Jos
 MOSELY-Ruth Bissell. Loving wife of the late Philip Mosely, former professor at Columbia University. Mother of Ann Lesch and the late Patricia M. Jackson. Grandmother of Todd Jackson and Laura J. Adams, and caring aunt and great-aunt. Died on June 24 in Washington, DC. A memorial service wi
 PATTERSON-Leila, nee Delano, of Gladwyne, Pa., on June 19, 2000. Wife of the late A. Willing Patterson; mother of Leila Peck of Wayne, Pa., Eleanora Patterson of East Dummerston, Vt., and David Patterson of Newton, Ma. Also survived by four grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. A memo
 Phyllis Propp Fowle, a New York lawyer who was the first woman to be an officer of the Army judge advocate general's corps, died Thursday in Manhattan. She was 92 and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. She was also the only woman in the corps to serve overseas during World
 ASHLEY-Jane, A.I.D. age 92 died June 17, 2000 at Middletown Hospital. Miss Ashley was born June 26, 1908 in Bozeman, Montana. She was a noted Interior Designer with a worldwide clientele. Miss Ashley was predeceased by her parents Jet C. Reavis and William H. Reavis and her two brothers Jac
 BACH-Ida L. The Offices, Directors, Management and Staff of Metropolitan Jewish Health System sadly mourn the passing of Ida L. Bach, honorary board member, esteemed supporter, and dear friend. Ida was deeply dedicated to serving the elderly and was an inspiration to others through her self
 COMER-Sylvia H. Of Lake Worth, Fl. formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Died on June 24. She was truly the wind beneath our wings. Beloved and devoted wife of 54 years of the late Monte. Adored mother of Susan Duftler and Loretta Bachman. Cherished grandmother (''G.G.'') of Missy and Scott, Matthew, 
 DAMAST-Florence. Beloved wife of Abraham for 60 years. Adored mother of Adrienne, Gary and Donald and mother-in-law of Laurie. Cherished grandmother of Arlynn, Sean and Adam, Michael, Evan, David and Lindsay, and Eric and Alison. Loving sister of the late Norman Schneider. She will always b
 FRASER-Alison Jane. On June 23, at NYU Medical Center, NYC. Peacefully, after a long illness patiently borne. She leaves her parents, John and Bridget Fraser, two brothers, Simon and Neil, and many friends. There will be a memorial service at 12:30 PM on Saturday, July 1, at the LDS Chapel 
 KALLISH-Sandy. Beloved wife of Peter, cherished sister of Frances, Josephine, Mario and nephew, Mark. She was deeply loved by her family and friends. Visiting at John Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Ave (70th St), Tuesday June 27th from 2-4 and 7-9 P.M. Funeral services private.       
 LEIBOWITT-Babs, beloved wife of S. David Leibowitt died Monday, June 26, 2000 at the age of 79 after a long protracted illness. Survivors are her beloved daughter, Carol Stanley Haas, granddaughter Paige Horne, grandson Max Haas, and great grandchild, Nicholas Horne. In addition, Babs had m
 MICHAELI-Ursula. The Michaeli family announces with the deepest sorrow the death of our mother and grandmother, Ursula (Muzzi) Michaeli on Sunday, June 25, 2000. The loving wife of the late David (Pops), sister of Inga Cavero Blumenfeld, Jean Fasman, Ruth Brass and Shirley Hirsch, wonderful
 NEWMAN-Dr. Jane, 88, originally of St. Helens, Oregon, passed away June 24th in Rockville Centre, N.Y. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Herbert Newman, adored mother of Mike and Ellen Ferguson. Cherished grandmother of Matthew, Dylan, Max, Tzahuiztil, Conor and Kara. Known professionally as Dr.
 PERMAN-Ann K. (Age 77). On Saturday, June 24, 2000 of brain cancer at her home in Washington, D.C.; beloved wife of Gerald Perman, M.D., loving mother of Marion Arkin of Rockville, Maryland, Elizabeth Arkin of Denmark and John Arkin of Charlottesville, Virginia, sister of Sally K. Thomson, 
 ROBBINS-Ann Roe, 94, widow of Leonard John Robbins, died peacefully at her home in Manhattan June 25, 2000. A '26 graduate of Smith College, she wrote cook books and garden books and ran a very successful cooking school in Manhattan, one of the first of its kind. Beloved by all, her survivo
 Rose Wyler, who wrote more than 50 books for children on science and other topics, died on June 12 at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. Ms. Wyler was the sole author of over two dozen books and a co-author of others. One of her best-known works is ''Spooky Tricks'' (1968), which sh
 Vera Atkins, who recruited, trained and watched over the legendary British secret agents who parachuted into France to sabotage the Nazis in World War II, died on Saturday in Hastings, Sussex. She was 92. Although Ian Fleming never identified her, Ms. Atkins was widely believed to h
 Diane Divers Blair, who taught and practiced politics in Arkansas for 30 years, becoming fast friends with Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton, died on Monday at her home in Fayetteville, Ark. She was 61. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. At her death she was professor
 COWEN-Judy. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Mrs. Judy Cowen. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her family. Bernard Karasic, President Charles Weissman, Secretary       
 EIDINDER-Florence. Tifereth Israel-Town and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to her husband Albert and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Asst Rabbi Abby Sosland Carol J. Green, President       
 HUFFMAN-Augusta Jay, known to her friends and family as Gusty, died June 26th in Oklahoma City, OK. She was born January 7, 1921 to the late DeLancey K. Jay and Elizabeth Sarah Morgan Jay in New York City. She grew up in Old Westbury, Long Island, NY and attended the Green Vale School and S
 SCHINDLER-Ruth. Her ability, loyalty, and devotion will never be forgotten. Justice-Rosenthal Chapter American Jewish Congress       
 Judy Angelo Cowen, a photographer who specialized in portraits of children, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 83 and had homes in Manhattan and Elberon, N.J. Born Judy Bach in Manhattan, Ms. Cowen was educated at the Dana Hall School and Pine Manor College in Massachusetts. Afte
 ANNINGER-Libby (nee Hirsch), 84. Passed away peacefully in her sleep in Vienna, Austria on June 26, 2000. Beloved wife of Victor, loving mother of Constance Schwartz Harris of NYC and stepmother of Thomas Anninger of Cambridge, MA. Services private.       
 COWEN-Judy A. of New York City and Elberon, New Jersey. Died June 27, 2000 from complications of ovarian cancer. Devoted wife of the late Harry Angelo, and the late Arthur Cowen, Jr. Loving mother of John M. Angelo and stepmother of Lorie Cowen Levy, Tony Cowen and Jill Cowen. Beloved grand
 EIDINGER-Florence. Tifereth Israel-Town and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to her husband Albert and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Abby Sosland, Asst Rabbi Carol J. Green, President       
 LEWIS-Beatrice. ''Omnia Ornavit Tetigit''. ''She graced everything she touched.'' A graduate of Marymount College and a Masters of Social Work at Hunter College. She was Director of Kittay House, a division of Jewish Home and Hospital, until her retirement. Her magnificent spirit lives on i
 McVITTY-Honoria (nee Livingston) in her ninety-second year. She was a beloved lady whose lifelong membership enriched us all. Her spirit and graciousness will be with us always. Board of Governors The Edgewood Club of Tivoli       
 SPELLETICH-Margery Fowler, 80, of Corona del Mar died June 26, 2000. She was preceded in death by her husband, Kalman Spelletich, Jr. in 1996. Born in Glen Ridge, New Jersey in 1919, she graduated from Sarah Lawrence College in New York and then joined BBDO in New York City as an account ex
 COE-Eunice deWolf. A resident of Ossining, NY, died Wednesday, June 28, 2000. Ms. Coe came to the Riverdale Country School in 1968 and she taught English, was head of the middle school and worked in the admissions office until her retirement in 1987. She continued working with the school un
 COWEN-Judy A. of New York City and Elberon, New Jersey. Died June 27, 2000 from complications of ovarian cancer. Devoted wife of the late Harry Angelo, and the late Arthur Cowen, Jr. Loving mother of John M. Angelo and stepmother of Lorie Cowen Levy, Tony Cowen and Jill Cowen. Beloved grand
 STANLEY-Jennifer C. 35 years old, on June 25, 2000. Art Director and graphic designer at Berkshire Hosiery, Mayer/Berkshire Corp. The staff and management mourn the loss of our friend and co-worker, Jennifer. She will be greatly missed. Her memory will be cherished and her devotion to the c
 YUEH-Norma N., M.D. died Wednesday morning at home. She was 72. Born in China, she emigrated to the U.S. on a full scholarship to St. Joseph's College, West Hartford, CT. She later attended Stanford University in Palo Alto, CA and received her doctorate in Library Sciences from Columbia Uni
