 BIERMAN-Dora. Tifereth Israel/ Town & Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband, Bill Bierman, and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland President Carol Green       
 BUCHWALD-Sylvia. Beloved wife of Irwin for 49 years. Cherished mother of Mary Beth Gardner and Cathy Buchwald, loving mother-inlaw of John Gardner, adored grandmother of Matthew, devoted sister of Helen Gerber and Mickey Gotlin. She will be deeply missed by all who knew her warmth, love, be
 CHENG-Denise, 71, on November 29, 1998. Wife of Stephen. Mother of Pascal, Danielle, Olivier, Philippe and Lydia. Grandmother of Gabriel, Sophie and Sasha. She will be deeply missed. Service on Thursday, December 3rd, at the Church of Notre Dame on 114th St. and Morningside Dr. at 10 AM.   
 DRUCKER-Rona Mound of Newport News, VA on November 30, 1998. Wife of Erwin Drucker. Mother of Wendy and Michael Piercy & David and Lynn Drucker. Daughter of Isabel Mound and the late Milton Mound. Grandmother of Natalie, Adam, Nicole, and Evan. Part of her was still a New Yorker. A memorial
 FORMAN-Shifra. The Board, staff & members of the Van Cortlandt Workmen's Circle Community House deeply mourn the passing of our longtime Board member, kind friend and devoted activist Shifra Forman. Our deepest sympathy to her husband and our friend Isadore and the rest of the family. May t
 LEVISON-Tillie (nee Silverman). On Sunday, November 29, 1998, in her 87th year. Devoted wife of the late Abraham. She will be missed by her loving son Moshe, daughter-in-law Phyllis and grandchildren Avi and Meira. You were a very special Savta to us all. Shiva in New Rochelle.       
 LOBERBAUM-Syd (Sadie). The Rabbi, Officers, Trustees and Members of Temple Beth El, Cedarhurst, NY and its Affiliates express deepest sympathy on the passing of its member. We grieve with her sons Robert, Donald and daughter Helene Wulwick and their families. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Richard
 MacLEAN-Lee Selden Howe. On November 30, 1998 in her 90th year. At her home in Lloyd Neck, Huntington, Long Island, New York. Surviving spouse of Charles Chalmers MacLean Jr. Mother of Elizabeth Howe O'Neill, Charles Chalmers MacLean III, William Augustus Howe MacLean and Babcock MacLean. G
 POPPER-Belina. Died at age 91 after a brief illness on November 30, 1998 at Sound Shore Medical Center. She was born to Iancu and Bertha Saraga in Bucharest, Romania March 9, 1907. She married her beloved husband, Emil, in 1929. Her husband died in 1983 after 53 years of marriage. She was a
 PUTNAM-Simone T. Age 85, on November 28, 1998. Longtime patron of the arts. Beloved wife of the late Windsor B. Putnam. Survived by her brother Rene Tremblay, sister Gertrude Houle and many nieces and nephews. Interment private.       
 SCHULDER-Hilda Beim. Devoted wife of Jacob for sixty-two years, sister of the late Ruth Beim Krieger. Loving mother of Diane, Sylvia and Howard. Adoring grandmother of Robert, Jeffrey, Amy, Marcy, Rachel and Becky. Great grandmother of Marlie. Died peacefully at home on Sunday, November 29,
 SINGER-Dr. Revira in Berkeley, CA., on November 27. A Jewish educator for over 40 years. Survived by her two daughters, Ruth and Miriam; sisters Helen, Harriet, and Jeannie; and many admiring and devoted friends. Services were held in California.       
 VALENSTEIN-Katrina Ely Burlingham. We deeply grieve the passing of Tinky, beloved wife of Arthur F. Valenstein, devoted mother of David Valenstein and Anne Heller, and affectionate grandmother of Toby, Ella, and Daniel. Born on March 27, 1919 in NYC. Daughter of Dorothy Tiffany Burlingham a
 BIERMAN-Dora. Tifereth Israel/ Town & Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband, Bill Bierman, and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland President Carol Green BIERMAN-Dor
 BOOKHALTER-Dr. Sophie. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a dear friend, a respected philanthropist whose commitment to the strengthening of Jewish life is manifest in the establishment of YU's Sophie Bookhalter, M.D., Program in Jewish Continuity. The program will advance 
 BUCHWALD-Sylvia. Beloved wife of Irwin for 49 years. Cherished mother of Mary Beth Gardner and Cathy Buchwald, loving mother-inlaw of John Gardner, adored grandmother of Matthew, devoted sister of Helen Gerber and Mickey Gotlin. She will be deeply missed by all who knew her warmth, love, be
 CAMPBELL-Marion Danielson. The Board of Directors and shareholders of 5 East 71 Street, Inc. express their deepest sympathy to her husband Douglass on the passing of its friend and neighbor. Michael Jesselson, President       
 CHENG-Denise, 71. On November 29, 1998. Wife of Stephen. Mother of Pascal, Danielle, Olivier, Philippe and Lydia. Grandmother of Gabriel, Sophie and Sasha. She will be deeply missed. Service on Thursday, December 3rd, at the Church of Notre Dame on 114th St. and Morningside Dr. at 10 AM.   
 DRUCKER-Rona Mound of Newport News, VA on November 30, 1998. Wife of Erwin Drucker. Mother of Wendy and Michael Piercy & David and Lynn Drucker. Daughter of Isabel Mound and the late Milton Mound. Grandmother of Natalie, Adam, Nicole, and Evan. Part of her was still a New Yorker. A memorial
 FORMAN-Shifra. The Board, staff & members of the Van Cortlandt Workmen's Circle Community House deeply mourn the passing of our longtime Board member, kind friend and devoted activist Shifra Forman. Our deepest sympathy to her husband and our friend Isadore and the rest of the family. May t
 GARRISON-Edith (Hooe) 90. Of Essex Meadows, Essex, Ct. Died Tuesday December 1. She was the wife of the late John D. Garrison Sr. She was born in Washington D.C., grew up in New Haven, Ct., lived many years in Greenwich, Ct., moving to New York City and recently to Essex. She was a member o
 GOLDSTONE-Florence. Died at her home on November 25. Her wit and intellect will be sorely missed by her son Robert and his wife Susan, her brother Dr Marcus Mintzer, and her grandchildren, David, Stephen and Susan Jane. She had taught French to thousands of Junior High School students and w
 LEE-Rose. Beloved mother, sister and aunt passed away Tuesday, December 1, 1998, of heart disease. She is survived by her daughter, Frances, and brother, Isidore Rothman. Funeral services will be held at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 2nd Avenue in Manhattan on Thursday, December 3rd at
 LEVISON-Tillie (nee Silverman). On Sunday, November 29, 1998, in her 87th year. Devoted wife of the late Abraham. She will be missed by her loving son Moshe, daughter-in-law Phyllis and grandchildren Avi and Meira. You were a very special Savta to us all. Shiva in New Rochelle.       
 LOBERBAUM-Syd (Sadie). The Rabbi, Officers, Trustees and Members of Temple Beth El, Cedarhurst, NY and its Affiliates express deepest sympathy on the passing of its member. We grieve with her sons Robert, Donald and daughter Helene Wulwick and their families. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Richard
 MacLEAN-Lee Selden Howe. On November 30, 1998 in her 90th year. At her home in Lloyd Neck, Huntington, Long Island, New York. Surviving spouse of Charles Chalmers MacLean Jr. Mother of Elizabeth Howe O'Neill, Charles Chalmers MacLean III, William Augustus Howe MacLean and Babcock MacLean. G
 NESTANPOWER-Marion M. Died December 1, 1998, 82 years old. Beloved wife of Samuel and sister of Herman Masin. Adored mother of Louise and Nathaniel Yohalem, Stephen and Ruth Nestanpower, cherished grandmother of Jennifer Yohalem, Eve Yohalem and Nicholas Polsky. Ecstatic greatgrandmother of
 POPPER-Belina. Died at age 91 after a brief illness on November 30, 1998 at Sound Shore Medical Center. She was born to Iancu and Bertha Saraga in Bucharest, Romania March 9, 1907. She married her beloved husband, Emil, in 1929. Her husband died in 1983 after 53 years of marriage. She was a
 PUTNAM-Simone T. Age 85, on November 28, 1998. Longtime patron of the arts. Beloved wife of the late Windsor B. Putnam. Survived by her brother Rene Tremblay, sister Gertrude Houle and many nieces and nephews. Interment private.       
 SCHULDER-Hilda Beim. Devoted wife of Jacob for sixty-two years, sister of the late Ruth Beim Krieger. Loving mother of Diane, Sylvia and Howard. Adoring grandmother of Robert, Jeffrey, Amy, Marcy, Rachel and Becky. Great grandmother of Marlie. Died peacefully at home on Sunday, November 29,
 SINGER-Dr. Revira in Berkeley, CA., on November 27. A Jewish educator for over 40 years. Survived by her two daughters, Ruth and Miriam; sisters Helen, Harriet, and Jeannie; and many admiring and devoted friends. Services were held in California.       
 TASHIRO-Kikue, November 5th at Calvary Hospice. Survived by her husband, Ago Terayama. A native of Japan who made NYC her home, Kikue wrote many plays, including ''Sakura: The Bandit Princess'' and ''Kensuke'', which were seen in many NYC venues as well as in Toronto, Hawaii and Europe. A m
 VALENSTEIN-Katrina Ely Burlingham. We deeply grieve the passing of Tinky, beloved wife of Arthur F. Valenstein, devoted mother of David Valenstein and Anne Heller, and affectionate grandmother of Toby, Ella, and Daniel. Born on March 27, 1919 in NYC. Daughter of Dorothy Tiffany Burlingham a
 Mary Benjamin, an autograph dealer with such an authoritative eye for authenticity and such a sure sense of value that for decades she virtually dictated prices United States collectors paid for the writings of Presidents, poets and other prominent people, died on Monday at her home in Hunt
 ABEL-Theodora Mead, widow of Theodore F. Abel, died December 2, of a heart attack at Hartwood, NY. She is survived by three children, Peter, Caroline Lalire, and Zita Emerson; her beloved cousin, Robert G. Cleveland; ten grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. She was recipient of the 
 ALPERT - Nettie. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun and its Sisterhood mourn the passing of their senior member and extend heartfelt condolences to all members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein Rabbi Joshua Lookstein Fred Distenfeld, President ALPERT-Nettie. Age 100. Surviv
 BALDWIN-Dorothy. On December 1, 1998 in her 98th year. Daughter of the late Sanford and Julia Baldwin. Burial service Thursday, 1PM at Saint John's Episcopal Church, 139 Saint John's Pl, Bklyn. Interment Evergreen Cemetery.       
 CONNELLY-Mary Ann. On December 2, 1998. Beloved mother of Marjorie, Leo (Alicia), Ellen (Daniel Pitkin), Frank and Alice. Devoted grandmother of Travis and Katherine. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81 St. today, 2 pm-5pm and 7pm-9pm. Mass of Christian burial Fr
 FABER-Selma. Beloved wife of the late Ephraim (Jack). Devoted sister of Dr. Robert Breakstone (Myra). Loving mother of Earl Faber (Linda) and Laurie. Adoring Bubbie of Ilana, Alexandra and Evan. Services Fri. 12:30. at ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, Queens Blvd., and 66 Ave., Rego Park. Inte
 KORN-Peggy Lehman. A celebration of her life will be held at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, December 15, at the Cosmopolitan Club. Contributions may be made in her memory to Planned Parenthood of New York, and/or Lenox Hill Neighborhood House.       
 LOEWENSTEIN - Helmut. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Irene Hollander on the loss of her father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 SERKIN-Irene. The Musicians, Trustees, Staff and Family of the Marlboro Music School and Festival mourn the loss of one of the most important founding members of our community, and extend our sincere sympathy to her family. Since our founding in 1951, Irene Serkin played a major role in hel
 SHERMAN-Beatrice (nee Becker). On December 1, 1998 at age 86. Loving and devoted wife of the late Irving. Mother of Raymond & Edward. Mother-in-law of Loni. Grandmother of Robin and Jacqueline. Sister of Herbert Becker. Retired New York City schoolteacher. Indomitable, fearless and tenaciou
 Margaret Walker Alexander, who wove her experience as a black woman in the Deep South into stories and poems that captured the struggles and desires of her race, died on Monday at the home of her daughter Marion Colmon in Chicago. She was 83 and lived in Jackson, Miss., on a street named fo
 BERGER-Dorothy, on December 3rd, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Berger. Loving mother of Bruce and wife, Michelle, and Miles and wife, Suzanne. Adoring grandmother of Jamie, Jared, Brendan, Arielle and Kirk. Service today, December 4th, 10:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and
 COLEMAN-Marian B. On December 3, 1998. Wife of the late Harold S. Coleman; sister-in-law to Betty S. Buechler and the late Ruth C. Krause. Also survived by two nephews and several cousins. Mrs. Coleman was a long time member of the National Council of Jewish Women, the Arthritis Foundation,
 CONNELLY-Mary Ann. On December 2, 1998. Beloved mother of Marjorie, Leo (Alicia), Ellen (Daniel Pitkin), Frank and Alice. Devoted grandmother of Travis and Katherine. Mass of Christian burial Fri. 10am at The Church of Our Savior, ParkAve., at 38th St. In lieu of flowers, contributions in h
 GRIEG-Rosemary M., died Nov. 30, 1998. Beloved sister of John (Fairfax, VA), daughter of the late John M. and Mary R. Grieg of Chicago. Memorial service at 3PM Saturday, December 5th at Church of the Holy Trinity, 316 East 88th St., New York City. Contributions in her memory may be made to 
 TREGDE-Josephine Elizabeth. Died December 3rd. She is survived by her husband John of 71 years, four children, Lorraine, Marie Rooney, Joan Sartoris and Kathleen Skarin, eight grandchildren, eight great grandchildren, sisters Angelina McGlynn, Fortunata Messineo. Contributions in lieu of fl
 Her first writings to reach print ran shoulder to shoulder with Ernest Hemingway's. For her first published poetry she was grouped with William Carlos Williams and Marianne Moore. She made it to Paris ahead of both Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald. She was a leader of the University of Chi
 DRILLICK-Blanche Roth. Died in Hackensack, New Jersey, on Thursday, December 3, 1998 of ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease) Blanche, ''Blimi,'' was born, October 9, 1923, in Brooklyn, NY, the youngest of six children of Israel and Hinda Roth. A precocious observer of people and customs, she wrote po
 FINDER-Regina. The Officers, staff and members of the Shorefront Y mourn the passing of Regina Finder, beloved mother of our past-President and leader, Alisa Sorkin. Our heartfelt condolences go out to Alisa, her husband Morty, and their families. Lee H. Perlman, Chair of Board Dr. Joseph K
 GRIEG-Rosemary M., died Nov. 30, 1998. Beloved sister of John (Fairfax, VA), daughter of the late John M. and Mary R. Grieg of Chicago. Memorial service at 3PM Saturday, December 5th at Church of the Holy Trinity, 316 East 88th St., New York City. Contributions in her memory may be made to 
 MELUM-Shirley Foote. On November 28th, Sanibel Island, Fl., where she had lived for fifteen years. Formerly of Upper Brookville, LI. She is survived by her husband Jerald Melum and three daughters Sheila Whitney of Poughkeepsie, NY, Melissa Melum of Finksburg, Maryland and Deborah McBee of 
 MILLER-Edith (nee Goldschmidt) December 4, 1998. Wife of the late Ralph Kurt Miller of Medford, NJ. Daughter of the late Emil and Rosa (nee Eichmann) Goldschmidt, sister of the late Lothar Goldschmidt, aunt of Ralph Miller, dear friend of Suzanne and Stefan Frank & Kim Fendrick. Interment S
 ROBBINS-Leah (nee Ellerstein). 87. On December 4, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Devoted mother of Samuel and Marjorie and Kenneth & Audrey. Loving grandmother of Meredith, Zoe, and Olivia. She will be greatly missed. Graveside services on Sunday 9:30 AM, at Mount Hebron Cemetery, 
 SMITH-Louis M. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Sharon Lindenauer and family on the loss of her beloved father. May the families be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 BARMACHE-Stella. On November 21, 1998, in her 83rd year. Internationally known fashion coordinator and loving wife of the late Leon Barmache. In her long career she was in charge of running fashion shows in all the major capitals of the world for the most illustrious names in the fashion in
 BELL-Amelia Lange. Widow of the late Elliott V. Bell. On Thanksgiving Day, November 26th at her home on Quaker Hill in Pawling, N.Y. At age 96 surrounded by her family: daughter Nancy Bell Hoving, son-in-law Tom Hoving of New York City, granddaughter Petrea Hoving Leventhal, grandsonin-law 
 BENDER-Janet Sloane. Died on December 3, 1998 at her home in Greenwich, CT two weeks before her 94th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Michael M. Bender. A woman of grace and beauty, elegant of bone and spirit, she was born and educated in New York City. From 1939 until 1982, she designed 
 BUNCE-Hazel W., 94, of New York City on December 2, 1998. Formerly of Brooklyn, Miss Bunce was a long time resident of Peter Cooper Village. The only child of William H. and Martha W. Bunce, Miss Bunce worked as an Executive Secretary to the President of the Lehigh Valley Railroad for most 
 COLEMAN-Marian B. On December 3, 1998. Wife of the late Harold S. Coleman; sister-in-law to Betty S. Buechler and the late Ruth C. Krause. Also survived by two nephews and several cousins. Mrs. Coleman was a long time member of the National Council of Jewish Women, the Arthritis Foundation,
 FINDER-Regina. On December 3, during her 91st year, in Los Angeles, CA. Mother of Alisa and Morty Sorkin, and Miriam and Alan Compton. Grandmother of six, great-grandmother of seven. We will all miss you, Grandma. Services will be held today, 10 AM, at Nieberg Midwood Chapel, 1625 Coney Isl
 GOODMAN-Sarah, 93, on December 3rd, 1998. Beloved wife of Saul L. Goodman, father of Jacob Eli, mother-in-law of Josy, and grandmother of Rachel and Naomi. Born in Baranovka, Ukraine, she came to this country at age 16 and unselfishly devoted her life to her family and to the advancement of
 KAUFER-Mildred O. 96, died suddenly on December 3, 1998, at her residence in Stamford, NY. She was formerly a resident of Fairlawn, NJ, and Jamaica, Queens. She was retired from her position as Credit Manager for the New York Times Advertising Division. She is survived by her sister Florenc
 MICHEL-Loschka. Of Whitestone, New York, and Bridgehampton, L.I. died peacefully in her sleep on November 26 at the age of 96. A well known caterer and patroness of the arts, she leaves a wide circle of friends and aficionados. Married to the late Maximilian Michel. She is survived by her s
 WEISENFELD-Mildred Mosler. The Board of Directors, staff and friends of Fight for Sight, Inc. remember our founder and executive director of fifty-one years on the first anniversary of her death, December 6th, 1997. Mildred Weisenfeld was a visionary leader who contributed her extraordinary
 WOODS-Gertrude B. The family of Gaby Woods grieves for the loss of this devoted wife, mother and grandmother. Her many friends remember her honesty and zest for living. Gaby showed special courage in her final year, when she gallantly withstood cancer until finally succumbing on December 4,
 Gyo Fujikawa, a prolific author and illustrator of children's books, including some of the first to feature children of many races, died on Nov. 26 at New York Hospital. She was 90 and lived in Manhattan. The California-born daughter of a Japanese farmer and an aspiring Japanese soc
 ANOS - Margaret MacDonald (Maggie) nee Duffield, at age 94, on December 5, 1998. Born in Ayrshire, Scotland. Devoted wife of the late William. Beloved mother of the late John Boyd, Maria Govier and Theonie White. Loved mother-in-law of Robert Govier and Howard White. Sister of Isabel Millik
 BELL-Amelia Lange. Widow of the late Elliott V. Bell. On Thanksgiving Day, November 26th at her home on Quaker Hill in Pawling, N.Y. At age 96 surrounded by her family: daughter Nancy Bell Hoving, son-in-law Tom Hoving of New York City, granddaughter Petrea Hoving Leventhal, grandsonin-law 
 BUNCE-Hazel W., 94, of New York City on December 2, 1998. Formerly of Brooklyn, Miss Bunce was a long time resident of Peter Cooper Village. The only child of William H. and Martha W. Bunce, Miss Bunce worked as an Executive Secretary to the President of the Lehigh Valley Railroad for most 
 FISHZOHN-Mollie. On December 5, 1998. She almost made 100. Very special lady, kind and gentle with an indomitable spirit. Sold mutual funds until her 90's. Beloved by her children Henry Fishzohn and Rita Post, her grandsons Kenneth, Robert and Daniel Post and their families. Services Wednes
 GOODMAN-Sarah, 93, on December 3rd, 1998. Beloved wife of Saul L. Goodman, mother of Jacob Eli, mother-in-law of Josy, and grandmother of Rachel and Naomi. Born in Baranovka, Ukraine, she came to this country at age 16 and unselfishly devoted her life to her family and to the advancement of
 WALKER-Adelaide George. Died December 5, 1998, at the age of 93. Born in Laramie, WY. Wife of the late Charles R. Walker. A memorial service is planned next August in Wellfleet, MA, where she lived since 1937. She leaves two sons, Charles and Daniel, and five grandchildren, Libby, Matthew, 
 CARPONCY-Marie-Therese. We will miss her generous, dynamic, and spirited outlook on life, her devotion to the cause of FrenchAmerican friendship, and her fascinating tales of travel all over the world. The memories will live on.       
 EHRENREICH-Fay. On December 6, 1998. Beloved Wife to the last Milton.Cherished mother to Sheila and Marty, daughter-in-law Dale and son-in-law Frank. Grandmother to Joan, Robert and Melissa; great grandmother to Maya and Michael. We all loved her. We'll miss her. We were so lucky to have he
 FISHER-Florence M. (nee Dollard), December 7th. in Raleigh, N.C. at age 94. Wife of the late Michael F. Fisher. She is survived by 2 sons, 7 grandchildren and 7 great grandchildren.       
 GINSBURG-Esther. Died December 5th, 1998 at the age of 94. Wife of the late William Ginsburg. Mother of Arthur and Barry Ginsburg. Mother-in-law to Dina Ginsburg and Merle Gross Ginsburg. Grandmother of Ruthie Ginsburg Gotian, Ron, Daniel and Joshua Ginsburg. Step-grandmother of Stewart and
 RUBIN-RICE-Tammy. With deepest sorrow we announce the death of Tammy Rubin-Rice. She fought a valiant battle against breast cancer but succumbed at age 34. She will be forever missed by all whose lives she touched. Funeral services at Midwood Chapel, 1625 Coney Island Ave, Brooklyn, NY, 12 
 SALEM-Janet M., age 65, on December 7, 1998. Associate Bond Trader for Morgan Stanley. Beloved sister of Thomas, Dr. James, the late Steven and Vincey. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Wednesday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass at Church Of Our Saviour, Park 
 TOWASSER-Jean Shirley (nee Monck). Died in her bed on November 24, 1998, in her home in Riverside, CT. Beloved wife to the late David E. Towasser. Ceaselessly devoted and loving mother to Nicholas Towasser. A memorial service will be held on December 12, at 2 PM at Gallagher's Funeral Home,
 GINSBURG-Esther. Died December 5th, 1998 at the age of 94. Wife of the late William Ginsburg. Mother of Arthur and Barry Ginsburg. Mother-in-law to Dina Ginsburg and Merle Gross Ginsburg. Grandmother of Ruthie Ginsburg Gotian, Ron, Daniel and Joshua Ginsburg. Step-grandmother of Stewart and
 HERMAN-Charlotte. Conservative Synagogue of Jamaica Estates mourns the passing of our past Trustee and friend and extends heartfelt sympathy to her family.       
 MARCUS-Miriam. New York Chapter of Hadassah mourns the death of its highly respected officer. A life member of Hadassah, Miriam exemplified the best attributes of human-ness and service. She made a difference. Joann Abrams Rosoff President       
 MAX-Dorothy (nee Seletsky). Of Manhattan and Venice, Italy, on Decmeber 5, 1998. Mourned by her long-devoted family; by her husband Herbert; by her sons Adam, Eric and Daniel; by her daughtersin-law Diane and Denise; by Sarah; by her brother-in-law Jerry; and by her five grandchildren. A fo
 MENKES-Molly. Beloved widow of Jacob David. Cherished mother of Stephen, Susan and Jane; daughter-in-law Suzanne; sons-inlaw Herman and Harold. Grandmother to Debbie, Robert, Elaine, Michael, Barbra, Jeff and Beth. Great-grandmother to Jackie, Shep, Charles and Jacob. We all loved her. She 
 RUSH-Jane Gilbert. Of New Canaan, CT formerly of Delray Beach, FL and Rye, NY died Saturday, December 5, 1998. She was the wife of the late Kenneth Rush, former President of Union Carbide and Ambassador to both the Federal Republic of Germany, and France. Survivors include a daughter, Cynth
 SALEM-Janet M., age 65, on December 7, 1998. Associate Bond Trader for Morgan Stanley. Beloved sister of Thomas, Dr. James, the late Steven and Vincey. Aunt to 22 nieces and nephews, 24 grandnieces and nephews and one great grandnephew. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av
 SCHLOSSBERG-Beatrice of West Hartford, CT., fomerly of Long Beach and Rockville Centre, NY died on December 7th at age 87. Beloved wife of the late Daniel Schlossberg and loving mother of Ronald and the late Laurence Schlossberg. She leaves two grandchildren, Amy and Eric and a sister, Zeld
 STECHER-Dr. Emma Dietz. Died Dec. 6th at age 93, a biochemistry professor for many years at Barnard College, survived by her brother Dr. Richard Dietz, and ten nieces and nephews. Interment St. John's Cemetery, Thursday, 2 PM.       
 SULLIVAN-Catherine, (nee McDonnell), on December 7, 1998 at her home in Scottsdale, Arizona, at age 81. A long-time resident of Southampton, NY, she was the daughter of the late James F. and Anna Murray McDonnell. She is survived by her loving husband of 58 years Raymond Peter, Jr.; her chi
 ZASLOW-Michael. The 10th grade at the Trinity School mourns the passing of Michael Zaslow, father of their classmate and friend, Marika Hufford-Zaslow. We send our condolences to Marika, her sister, Helena and their mother, Susan Hufford.       
 Hazel Bishop, who cooked up the first kissproof lipstick (''stays on you . . . not on him'') in a kitchen fitted out as a laboratory, then lost the right to use the name she made famous, died on Saturday at the Osborn Home in Rye, N.Y. She was 92. She exploited the skills of a resea
 BLUESTEIN-Fela. Of Upper Montclair, NJ. Member of Hadassah, O.R.T. and Hidden Children. Survived by her husband Sanfurd. Contributions may be made to Hidden Children or New York Holocaust Museum. Services are today, 10:00am at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel 150 Rt 4 East, Paramus, NJ. Inter
 EDELSON-Jean. On Saturday, December 5, 1998, peacefully at her home in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late H. Edward Edelson, dear sister of Lillian de Burgos, loving mother of Robert and loving mother-in-law of his wife Jill, loving mother of Alan and loving mother-in-law of his wife C
 FUJIKAWA-Gyo. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved life member Gyo Fujikawa. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 MARKOVITZ-Klara. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its long time devoted member, Rachel Lurie. May her entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 STARK-Frances L., Dr. Formerly of Fort Lee, N.J. Died Boca Raton, FL., Dec. 8, 1998. An optometrist in Union City for over fifty years. She served on the N.J. State Board of Optometry & the Fort Lee School Board for over twenty years. She is survived by a daughter Paula Stark Rosenfeld of B
 STECHER-Dr. Emma Dietz. Died Dec. 6th at age 93, a biochemistry professor for many years at Barnard College, survived by her brother Dr. Richard Dietz, and ten nieces and nephews. Interment St. John's Cemetery, Thursday, 2 PM.       
 BLATTBERG-Diane. (nee Kupferman). Beloved wife of Daniel Blattberg. Cherished mother of Beth Saks, Barry and Craig Blattberg and the late Lynda Grome. She is also survived by four grandchildren. She was a para-professional for 26 years with NY City Board of Education, P.S. 135. She will be 
 KUTNER-Marian. Wife of the late Simon Kutner. Life long resident of New York City. Died on December 3, 1998. She just celebrated her 92nd birthday. A loving wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She was creative and enjoyed doing both oil painting and enameling. Her enthusiasm fo
 SANTIAGO-George. On December 8, 1998 after a valiant struggle against cancer. Survived by longtime companion Carolyn Topak, mother Josephine, sister Elsie, brother Robert, loving niece Linda and her husband Tony. Friends may visit at Edward D. Lynch & Son Funeral Home, 43-07 Queens Boulevar
 SLOTKIN-Sarah A. Artist and teacher. Beloved and loving wife of Aaron and mother of Deborah Orin and Mark. Died December 9 at age 86. She loved life and she painted with joy. We loved her and we will miss her. Services Sunday, December 13, at 12 noon, Gramercy Memorial Chapel, 152 2nd Avenu
 VAN DALEN-Annaclare, Ph.D. It is with great sadness that the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services notes the death of Annaclare van Dalen, Ph.D., educational coordinator of JBFCS' Center for the Prevention of Family Violence, administrative supervisor of the agency's Pelham Office 
 BARREL-Sadye (Syd). The officers, board, and staff of the Smithsonian Institution National Museum of the American Indian express their condolences on the passing of Syd Barrel in Palm Beach, Fla. She was the beloved mother of Iris Barrel Apfel, a keen supporter of the National Museum of the
 LEMPERT-Paula Vial. On December 10, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Lucien Vial, the late Joseph Bernham and the late Henry Lempert. She escaped the Holocaust and came to the United States. Through much personal endeavor she was very successful in business and real esta
 BECK-Joan. A longtime columnist for the Chicago Tribune, died December 10, in Lake Forest, IL. Her children Christopher Beck and Melinda Beck Neger, her son-in-law Peter Neger, and granddaughters Emily and Hillary Neger will miss her deeply and will always remember her love and inspiration.
 COHEN-Esther. On December 10, 1998, at the age of 94. Esther came to this country from Poland alone as a young girl. The center of her life was her family and the state of Israel. She was the beloved wife of the late Morris Cohen; the devoted mother of Renee and Ralph Blumenthal and Herb an
 CRAVEN-Babette. The staff of the Billy Rose Theatre Collection at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts mourns the death on November 29th of their friend and colleague Babette (Babs) Craven who was a loyal volunteer for over 40 years. Her gentle nature, her devotion to theatre
 DEMAREST-Elsie Nemeth. On November 30, 1998 of Garden City, NY, in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Lester. Mrs. Demarest was a registered nurse for 45 years. Memorial Service Saturday, December 19, 1998 at 1 PM, the Presbyterian Church in Garden City, 91 Chester Ave, Garden City. Do
 FOX-Bess. Almost 90. On November 24th, 1998. She would smile at everyone she passed on the street to say hello. We say good-bye for her. Donations may be made to The Brooklyn Botanic Gardens. 1000 Washington Ave., Brooklyn, New York 11225. Jack, Joel, Judy, Nancy, Jeffrey       
 KARMON-Sylvia. The Board of Directors and Staff of Bronx House mourn the passing of the beloved wife of our Chairman Emeritus Elias Karmon. We hope and pray that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May the family know of no more sorrow. William Alper, President Sharon Gr
 LEMPERT-Paula Vial. On December 10, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Lucien Vial, the late Joseph Bernham and the late Henry Lempert. She escaped the Holocaust and came to the United States. Through much personal endeavor she was very successful in business and real esta
 ROBBINS-Matilda. Born October 19, 1906, died December 8, 1998. We mourn the loss of our dear mother, sister, mother-in-law, grandma, and great-grandmother, who passed away at the age of 92, in Hallendale, FL. She was the beloved ''bride'' of the late Harry Robbins, devoted mother of Dr. Joh
 SHAPIRO-Henrietta. Passed away on December 10, 1998. Beloved mother of Dr. Sandor Shapiro and Rena Grodd, cherished grandmother of Shelly, Alan, Karen, Debbie and Alison, and proud great-grandmother of Adrianna, Lindsey, Jeremy, Emily, Steven and Adam. She touched the lives of many and is d
 SIMOWITZ-Rhoda. On December 7, 1998. Age 73. After a long illness. Beloved wife of 51 years of Sylvan. Loving mother of Carol Simowitz Mendelsohn and Lee. Grandmother of Mia and Jake. Devoted sister-in-law of Flo and Harold Feldman, and mother-inlaw of Martin Mendelsohn and Susan Reiter Sim
 TOBIN-Maureen Ives. Wife, mother, friend and volunteer, died Friday after a two year battle with cancer. Active with The International Preschool. She is survived by husband Robert, children Katharine, Eric, Laura & Anna of Stamford, mother Mary Ives & sister Susan Morgan, both of England. P
 MARTIN-Betty Ivey. A memorial to celebrate her life will take place Thursday, December 17, 4pm at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, Madison Ave at 81 Street.       
 Dr. Theodora Mead Abel, a psychologist who brought an anthropologist's view to her study of the Indians of New Mexico, died Dec. 2 at her home in Forestburgh, N.Y. She was 99. Dr. Abel was a leader in cross-cultural psychological research, which became her main focus after retiring 
 COLES-Mary Drake. Watercolor artist and long-time resident of Edgartown, MA, on Sunday, December 13, 1998, at age 95. Graduate of Smith College, Class of 1924, Ms. Coles painted throughout her life despite loss of her sight in mid 1950's. Works exhibited in group shows at Metropolitan Museu
 GLASS - Caroline Adelsberger. Age 94, of Heritage Village, Southbury, CT, formerly of New Rochelle, NY, passed away peacefully on December 12, 1998. Daughter of the late Ignatz and Henrietta Adelsberger. Widow of John Glass, Jr. Dearest sister of Marjorie Siegel of Lake Worth, FL, and the l
 KRAMER-Celia. Of New York City. On December 10, 1998. Beloved sister of Nan Hoey. Sister-in-law of Joe Hoey. ''Second mother'' to Dianne Tisman. Her fiery spirit will be missed by us all.       
 LEMPERT-Paula Vial. On December 10, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Lucien Vial, the late Joseph Bernham and the late Henry Lempert. She escaped the Holocaust and came to the United States. Through much personal endeavor she was very successful in business and real esta
 MELZER-Theda. Devoted wife of the late Rudy, adored mother of Renee and Allan, doting grandmother of Alissa and Jared, loving sister of Ruth. The most gracious, giving, considerate and kindest person to grace the Earth. Her warmth and her caring touched us all, and made our lives that much 
 MORGENTHAU - Emmy Lou. Wife of Eugene and the late Morton Pepper, and Howard Lilienthal. Mother of Philip and Robert Lilienthal, and their wives Lynn and Roe. Grandmother of Andy, Ben, Jeffrey and Debbie Lilienthal, Cathy Deutchman and Vinny Riccobono. Great-grandmother of Kristina and Kels
 ROBERTS-Flora. Died December 12, 1998. Dramatic rights representative. Survived by her sister, Janet Sovin, her brother, David Roberts, five nieces and one nephew. Service on Thursday, December 17, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, Madison and 81st Street.       
 SHAPIRO - Henrietta. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Her love warmed family and friends. A longtime member of our Congregation, she was avid in her support of us. Highly respected in the Jewish community, she was a unique individual who will be missed. Congregation 
 SIEGEL-Marsha (Furman). Beloved wife of Sidney H. Adored mother of Don, Monica, Naomi (Duval) and Mindy (Ohringer). Loving grandmother of Jonathan and Lesley Siegel, Claire and Grant Miner and Noah Ohringer. Devoted aunt of Beverly Katzman, Alan Rems, Linda Simon, Martin Furman, Kathy Schif
 TOBIN-Maureen Ives. Wife, mother, friend and volunteer, died Friday after a two year battle with cancer. Active with The International Preschool. She is survived by husband Robert, children Katharine, Eric, Laura & Anna of Stamford, mother Mary Ives & sister Susan Morgan, both of England. P
 ZIMMERMAN-Alice (nee Parke). Of Stonington, CT, Amityville, Point O' Woods and Brooklyn, NY in her 90th year. Wife of John O. Zimmerman. Mother of Peter Zimmerman and Anne Zimmerman Rodrigues. Grandmother of two girls and three boys. Greatgrandmother of two girls. Memorial service at Calvar
 Flora Roberts, a dynamic play agent who represented many important theater artists, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. She was 77, and lived in Manhattan and Bridgewater, Conn. The cause was congestive heart failure, said her associate Sarah Douglas. Stephen Sondheim, Ti
 ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a great Jewish matriarch, who was venerated by her family and the Jewish communities of Long Beach, NY; Toronto; and Miami Beach and Palm Beach. Beloved mother of Judith Abraham (and Dr. Edward L.) Steinberg, S. Daniel (a
 COHEN-Anne Sheffer. Dearest wife, mother, nana and greatgrandmother went home to her beloved parents, Bella and Moses Sheffer, dearest husband, David and cherished daughters, B.J. and Lainey on December, 13, 1998. Good-bye from Lynn Handler and Audrey Rauch and the Croens and all their fami
 JACOBSON-Constance E., on December 14, 1998. Devoted & loving wife, mother of three, grandmother of six. Was a school teacher in East School & a successful realtor in Long Beach. Always an inspiration to her children, grandchildren to follow their dreams and strive for success. In lieu of f
 MASSA-A. Ruth. Of Dobbs Ferry on December 12, 1998. Miss Massa had been an investment advisor until her retirement ten years ago. She is survived by several cousins. Visiting is Tuesday from 2 to 4 and 6 to 8 at Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Avenue, (exit 17 Saw Mill) Dobbs Ferry,
 MCCOMBS-A. Parks, M.D. Age 96 of Sarasota, FL. Passed away December 13, 1998. She was born March 2, 1902, in Charlotte, NC, and moved to the Sarasota area 23 years ago from NYC. She interned at Bellevue Hospital, then joined her Aunt, Dr. Connie Guion, in private practice in NYC. She was an
 MERESON-Rose. On November 17, at St. Vincent's Hospital. Survived by nieces Julie and Amy Mereson, and Naomi Weinless, nephews Michael, Jonathan and Daniel Weinless. Dedicated teacher of French and Hebrew in New York high school system for 50 years. An inspiration to all she met. She will b
 MORGENTHAU - Emmy Lou. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Emmy Lou Morgenthau, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of her passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who 
 ROBERTS-Flora. Died December 12, 1998. Dramatic rights representative. Survived by her sister, Janet Sovin, her brother, David Roberts, five nieces and one nephew. Service on Thursday, December 17, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, Madison and 81st Street.       
 SCHNEIDER-Mollie. Died on December 14. She was the beloved wife of the late Harold D. Schneider and a retired school teacher. She is survived by two nephews, Paul and Edward, two grand nieces, two grand nephews, one great-grand niece, five greatgrand nephews and many friends. She was a grea
 SMITHLINE-Diane in Sausalito, CA, December 13, 1998. Devoted and loving wife of Neil Smithline for 35 years and loving mother to her three boys Adam, Todd and Scott; loving mother-in-law to Nancy and special friend to Catherine; life-long friend and companion to her beloved mother Edna Barr
 SNYDER-Joan P., 70, died Sunday at her residence in Guilderland, NY. Widow of Sidney Snyder. Survived by her three daughters, Elizabeth Walker of Marlboro, VT, Ann Buhr of Mill Neck, NY, Linda Barber of Altamonte, NY, granddaughters, Allison and Carolyn Barber. Memorial Service on Thursday 
 STRAUSS-Annette. The Board of Directors and staff of Phoenix House mourn the passing of Annette Strauss. A woman of spirit, strength, and commitment, she greatly enriched the nation and the Dallas community. A founding member of our Board of Directors, she cared deeply about the welfare of 
 WILDMAN-Angela M. At the glorious age of 93. December 12 at peace in Fort Lauderdale, FL. Beloved mother and friend of Ruth Corson Maynard. Cherished by the Hale and Maynard families and loved by all who knew her. She lived life to the fullest. Services private.       
 ABRAHAM-Stella K. On her 102nd birthday, Baruch Dayan Emet, the beloved wife of the late Dr Samuel Abraham and loving mother of Judy Steinberg, Daniel Abraham, Jerry Abraham and the late Roy Abraham. Cherished mother-inlaw, adored grandmother, great grandmother and elder sister. Grandma Ste
 COHEN-Anne  The Yeshiva University Museum family is deeply saddened to learn of the passing of the mother of our dear friend Lyn Handler. To her children and grandchildren we extend our heartfelt sympathies. May her memory always be for a blessing, and may her family be comforted together w
 FISHER-Dorothy Simon . Born 12/ 3/05 in NYC; died 12/13/98. Beloved wife of the late Belmont. Beloved mother of Daniel Mark Fisher, Marijo Hennagin-Mazur, beloved mother-in-law of Vladislav Mazur. Beloved grandmother of David and Jean Hennagin, Melissa and Wendell Rames, Eric, Jonathan, Ada
 GRIFFINGER-Edythe . The partners, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express deep sorrow at the passing of Edythe Griffinger, former Administrative Assistant to the late Judge Simon H. Rifkind, and beloved colleague and friend. We extend our deepest sympathies 
 HURWITH-Vivian F. , on December 15, 1998. Mother of Mayer John Hurwith and David P. Hurwith and the late Andrew Hurwith. She was Chairman of the Board of Firstcom Bancorp of Chicago. Funeral today, 9AM at Shomrei Hadas Chapels, Brooklyn. Shiva will be held Wednesday evening through Friday a
 LITWIN-Shirley Goldring.  Of Great Neck, NY. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel L. Litwin. Loving mother of Jane Zimmerman and Robert Litwin. Devoted mother-inlaw of Ronald Zimmerman and Carol Litwin. Adoring and adored nan of Deborah and Eric Ribner, Michael Zimmerman, Jody Litwin and Amy Li
 MORGENTHAU - Emmy Lou.  Wife of Eugene and the late Morton Pepper, and Howard Lilienthal. Mother of Philip and Robert Lilienthal, and their wives Lynn and Roe. Grandmother of Andy, Ben, Jeffrey and Debbie Lilienthal, Cathy Deutchman and Vinny Riccobono. Great-grandmother of Kristina and Kel
 PAGE-Jane N.  Of Cold Spring Harbor, NY, died December 15. Born Jane N. Nichols. Leaving her husband, Walter H. Page, her sister, Rita Meyer, her three children, Jane Mallinson, Walter and Mark, and eight grandchildren. Memorial service at 12 Noon Friday, December 18, St. John's Church, Col
 ROBERTS-Flora.  The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of Dramatists Play Service mourn the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague. Her contributions to the theater are measured by her outstanding clients and the theater productions that she represented. Flora's theater knowledge,
 SCHNEIDER-Mollie.  Died on December 14. She was the beloved wife of the late Harold D. Schneider and a retired school teacher. She is survived by two nephews, Paul and Edward, two grand nieces, two grand nephews, one great-grand niece, five greatgrand nephews and many friends. She was a gre
 SENECA-Betty The Board and staff of the Neighborhood Coalition for Shelter mourn the passing of Board member, Betty Seneca. We will miss her energy, commitment and the good humor she brought to all she did at NCS. Our condolences to her family. Stephanie Guest, Board President Anne R. Teich
 STRAUSS-Annette . The Board of Directors and staff of Phoenix House mourn the passing of Annette Strauss. A woman of spirit, strength, and commitment, she greatly enriched the nation and the Dallas community. A founding member of our Board of Directors, she cared deeply about the welfare of
 ABRAHAM-Stella K. Torah Umesorah, the National Society of Hebrew Day Schools, mourns the passing of Stella K. Abraham, matriarch of the illustrious Abraham family, mother of our dear friend and benefactor, S. Daniel Abraham. Each generation is blessed with relatively few individuals with th
 ELEY-Jean Ryden of Kings Point, Long Island. Wife of the late Lewis Eley. Born in Saint Paul, MN. Graduated from Augustana College. Member of the Tri-City Symphony and Kansas City Philharmonic. Graduate of Juilliard and Columbia University. Featured violinist on, and member of, the Fred War
 FREEDMAN-Rose H. Devoted wife of the late Nathan, beloved mother of Sidney (Nancy) and George, grandmother of Amy, Carrie and Gerry, great-grandmother of Jonathan, Alexander, Rena. Services 10AM Friday at Riverside Nassau North Chapels, 55 No. Sta. Plaza, Great Neck, NY. FREEDMAN-Ro
 GRIFFINGER-Edythe. The partners, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express deep sorrow at the passing of Edythe Griffinger, former Administrative Assistant to the late Judge Simon H. Rifkind, and beloved colleague and friend. We extend our deepest sympathies a
 HAMMERMAN-Dr. Henry. We extend heartfelt condolences to Dr. Cathy Hammerman-Rozenberg on the loss of her beloved father, Henry. Through her lifesaving work in the Department of Neonatalogy, Cathy continues her father's legacy of healing and compassion. May Cathy, her brother Dr. Neil, grand
 HERMAN-Debra. Passed away on Dec. 15, 1998 in Las Vegas, NV. Beloved wife of the late Philip Herman. Mother of Marc Schorr and Ilene (Lark) Teitler. Adored sister of Skee Taubin. Loved by her daughter-in-law, Jane Schorr and her step-children, Richard and Kathy Herman, Lauren & Steven Schwa
 HUTNER - Batsheva. Distin guished Aishes Chaver of Rabbi Yehoshua Hutner, Director and guiding force of Yad Horav Herzog in Jerusalem for half a century. In her lifetime as a devoted wife and dedicated servant of her people, she was an inspiring model of scholarship and benevolence, warmth 
 JACOBSON-Rose Zeiden. Of Louisville, KY. Died December 15. She was the widow of Abe Jacobson, beloved mother of Jay of Minneapolis, Kenny of Brewster, NY, Harry of Louisville, and sister of Sam Zeiden of Oceanside, CA; the best mother-in-law, grandmother, great-grandmother, aunt and great-a
 LENNON-Laura. Left us on December 15, 1998. Beloved wife to Bernd Allen; loving sister of Esther Natter, Irving Natter, Elaine Yates and Seymour Yates; adoring mother to Marissa Allen, Brian Lichtenstein, and Floella Allen; incredulous grandmother to Jamie; and ''Auntie Mame'' to nephews an
 LITWIN-Shirley Goldring. Of Great Neck, NY. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel L. Litwin. Loving mother of Jane Zimmerman and Robert Litwin. Devoted mother-inlaw of Ronald Zimmerman and Carol Litwin. Adoring and adored nan of Deborah and Eric Ribner, Michael Zimmerman, Jody Litwin and Amy Lit
 McGRAIL-Mary. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family mourns the passing of Mary (Bobbie) McGrail, beloved mother of Joann Coffin, assistant administrator at Beth Israel's Kings Highway Division. To her husband, Robert McGrail, and the McGrail and Coffin families, we offer our profound
 PAGE-Jane N. Of Cold Spring Harbor, NY, died December 15. Born Jane N. Nichols. Leaving her husband, Walter H. Page, her sister, Rita Meyer, her three children, Jane Mallinson, Walter and Mark, and eight grandchildren. Memorial service at 12 Noon Friday, December 18, St. John's Church, Cold
 RACHMIL-Beatrice Y., on December 14, 1998. Best wife, mother, grandmother, sister and friend to Maurice, Annette, Larry, Brett, Craig, Beth, Julian, Gladys and all who knew and loved her. Services Friday 10AM at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Tpke, Woodbury, L.I.       
 ROBERTS-Flora. Died December 12, 1998. Dramatic rights representative. Survived by her sister, Janet Sovin, her brother, David Roberts, five nieces and one nephew. Service on Thursday, December 17, 11:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, Madison and 81st Street.       
 STANTON-Helen LaFetra. Died peacefully at her home on December 15, 1998, age 98. She was the widow of Louis Lee Stanton. Mother of Ann S. Warden, Louis L. Stanton Jr. and the late Dixon LaFetra Stanton. Also survived by ten grandchildren and 13 greatgrandchildren. Service to be held at 1:30
 STRAUSS-Annette. The Board of Directors and staff of Phoenix House mourn the passing of Annette Strauss. A woman of spirit, strength, and commitment, she greatly enriched the nation and the Dallas community. A founding member of our Board of Directors, she cared deeply about the welfare of 
 WOLBROM-Edith, 89 years. Died December 16, 1998. Wife of the late Joseph; mother of Irving and Elaine, Fran and Alan, Renay and Steve; grandmother of nine; great grandmother of three. She lived for her family, loving us all unconditionally and totally. Her gentle and adoring qualities will 
 Mildred Baker, an arts administrator and trustee emeritus of the Newark Museum, died on Dec. 9 at the Florence Nightingale Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 93 and was a longtime resident of the Chelsea Hotel in Manhattan. Born into a musical family in Brooklyn and named Mildred 
 ABRAHAM-Stella K. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Samuel Abraham. Beloved mother of Judy Steinberg, S. Daniel Abraham, Jeremiah Abraham and the late Roy Abraham. Matriarch of an exceptional family, who taught by example. She personified the true ''Aishes Chayil'' dedicated to her children, her
 DeLONG-Sofia Banszky. Passed away on December 15, 1998, in Miami, Florida. Our dearest Sofie will always be remembered for her intelligence, charm, understanding, beauty and generous spirit. She will be sorely missed by all those who knew her. She is survived by her daughters, Catherine and
 GORDON-Ruth. Beloved mother of Barbara Schneider and Ron Gordon. Loving mother-in-law of Helga Gordon and Ron Schneider. Cherished grandmother of Andrew, Bettina, David, Jennifer and Patty. Adored ''GG'' of her great granddaughter Molly. Services are Sunday at 1:30PM, at Riverside Chapel, 1
 HERMAN-Debra. Passed away on Dec. 15, 1998 in Las Vegas, NV. Beloved wife of the late Philip Herman. Mother of Marc Schorr and Ilene (Lark) Teitler. Adored sister of Skee Taubin. Loved by her daughter-in-law, Jane Schorr and her step-children, Richard and Kathy Herman, Lauren & Steven Schwa
 HIMELSTEIN-Miriam. Elegant, intelligent & a women of valor. A mentor to everyone who knew her. We will all miss her.       
 KAHEN-Florence. Beloved wife of Harold. Mother of Deborah Kayman, David Kahen, and the late Daniel Kahen. Grandmother of Noah Kayman and Gabriel and Joanna Kahen. She enriched our lives with her aesthetic sensibility, her gourmet cooking, her gardening and her thoughtfully selected gifts. A
 PARDES-Frances. The Association of the Alumni of the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, would like to acknowledge the death of Frances Pardes and extend heartfelt condolences to her sons, Dr. Herbert Pardes, Vice President of Health Sciences and Dean of the College of 
 SILBERSTEIN-Sylvia, philanthropist, talented artist, and dedicated wife, mother, grandmother and friend, passed away Thursday, Dec. 17, 1998. Born in Hammond, Indiana on December 2, 1915, to Samuel & Jennie Kleinberg Levin, Sylvia was an alumni of Indiana University where she met her husban
 STANTON-Helen LaFetra. Died peacefully at her home on December 15, 1998, age 98. She was the widow of Louis Lee Stanton. Mother of Ann S. Warden, Louis L. Stanton Jr. and the late Dixon LaFetra Stanton. Also survived by ten grandchildren and 13 greatgrandchildren. Service to be held at 1:30
 STRAUSS - Annette Greenfield. The staff at Sotheby's is deeply saddened by the loss of The Honorable Annette Greenfield Strauss, the mother of our dear colleague, Nancy Strauss Halbreich. Mrs. Strauss was the first woman elected mayor of Dallas, she served two terms from 1987-1991. As an ac
 TERRY-Ellen Bruce, 78, of Palm Beach, the daughter of former Ambassador and Mrs. James Bruce. Attended Greenwood School in Baltimore, Md., and The Spence School in New York. She had homes in Princeton, New Jersey, and Palm Beach, FL. She was a member of the Society of the Four Arts, the Bat
 VAN TETS-Dorothy Collins died in San Francisco December 17, 1998, age 97. Widow of Willem van Tets, former Consul-General of the Netherlands in San Francisco. Survived by her brother, Hugh Gawtry Collins of Bloomfield, CT, three nephews, a niece, seven grandnieces and grandnephews and nine 
 VANDERPOOL-Ann West. On December 14th, 1998 Ann West Vanderpool, nee Ann West Wheeler from Providence, Rhode Island, who was the beloved wife to the late Wynant D. Vanderpool, Jr. She is survived by three children: Stuart H. Johnson III of New York City, Thomas W. Johnson of Baltimore, Mary
 WARSHAVSKY-Anna. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of a major benefactor who established a generous scholarship fund to enable many children to study in Ramaz. The accomplishments and good works of these children will be a living memorial to her devotion to Torah and Jewish educati
 GROTHE-Clare (nee O'Dea). Beloved wife of Harry. Devoted daughter of Mary O'Dea. Loving sister of Joseph O'Dea, Maureen Flood, Ann James, Eileen Riordan, and Martin O'Dea. Cherished aunt of 26 nieces and nephews and many grand nieces and nephews. A dedicated nurse and loving caregiver. We a
 KREIS-Rose Edith. Of Stamford, CT, on December 17, 1998. Wife of the late Maurice M. Kreis. Survived by her daughters; Florence Price, wife of the late Irwin Price, Barbara and her husband, Herb Ruskin, Myrna and her husband, Boris Klapwald; her sister, Dorothy Hinden; twelve grandchildren,
 POSEN-Joanne. Our beloved daughter-in-law. Cherished wife of our son David. Loving mother of our grandson Jimmy. We will miss you terribly. Bonnie and Martin Gregge Carol and Jack Posen POSEN-Joanne. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the p
 STANTON-Helen LaFetra. Died peacefully at her home on December 15, 1998, age 98. She was the widow of Louis Lee Stanton. Mother of Ann S. Warden, Louis L. Stanton Jr. and the late Dixon LaFetra Stanton. Also survived by ten grandchildren and 13 greatgrandchildren. Service to be held at 1:30
 VANDERPOOL-Ann West. On December 14th, 1998 Ann West Vanderpool, nee Ann West Wheeler from Providence, Rhode Island, who was the beloved wife to the late Wynant D. Vanderpool, Jr. She is survived by three children: Stuart H. Johnson III of New York City, Thomas W. Johnson of Baltimore, Mary
 ABRAHAM-Stella K. The Boca Raton Judaic Fellows Program mourns the loss of the beloved mother of Daniel S. Abraham, Judith Steinberg, and Jerry Abraham. Through the generosity of the Abraham & Steinberg families, hundreds of people have been exposed to their Jewish heritage in an exciting, 
 ARRON-Judith. Jaime Laredo, our Music Advisors and all of us connected with the New York String Orchestra Semimar, send deepest sympathy to a valued former Seminar participant, Eddie Arron, his father and brother. As we begin our 30th Seminar, we reflect with gratitude and affection upon Ju
 DeLONG-Sofia Banszky. Passed away on December 15, 1998, in Miami, Florida. Our dearest Sofie will always be remembered for her intelligence, charm, understanding, beauty and generous spirit. She will be sorely missed by all those who knew her. She is survived by her daughters, Catherine and
 ENTE-Ellin F. Age 71. Of Westport. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Howard K. Ente. Beloved mother of Stephen P. Ente and Douglas E. Ente, loving mother-in-law of Gail, adored and adoring grandmother of David, Brian, Frances, and Karin, much loved sister of Sally F. Brodio, brother-in-law of Dr
 GOLDBERGER - Martha. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Martha Goldberger, and extend to the members of her family our sincere condolences. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary       
 GRIFFIN-Jocelyn Crane. The trustees and staff of The Wildlife Conservation Society mourn the passing of their colleague and friend, who died in Concord, MA. on December 16, 1998. She was a zoologist and historian of human gestures in art. After graduation from Smith College in 1930, she joi
 HALPERN-Caryn, M.D. The column is too short, the borders too narrow to fully tell the story of a life so big: the life of Caryn Keller Halpern, M.D. To all who knew her, she was a skilled pediatrician, a devoted wife and mother, and an intuitive artist. To all who loved her, she was a sourc
 McFADDEN-Jacqueline M. On December 18, 1998 of Port Washington. Beloved wife of William. Loving mother of Candace Ellen and William McFadden, Jr. Also, survived by her sister Phyllis Hiller of Port Washington and her brother Peter J. LaValle of Hitchcock, Texas. In repose at the Fairchild F
 McPHILLIPS-Mary Helen, 67, died on Wednesday, December 16 in New York City of heart failure. Mary Helen a noted television personality worked initially in Canada for the CBC and CHUM radio and later for WOR-TV and radio in New York for 20 years. M.H. appeared on ''Straight Talk''. ''The Mar
 NYSWANDER-Dorothy. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., and with the staff of the hospital's Methadone Maintenance Treatment Program (MMTP) in acknowledging the passing of Dr. Dorothy Nyswander. Dr. Ny
 PAGE-Jane N. The Board of Directors and staff of the Cold Spring Harbor Whaling Museum Society are deeply saddened by the passing of Jane N. Page and appreciate her family's longtime involvement with the Museum. Together with her father, George Nichols, and her husband, Walter H. Page, both
 REYER-Fay (nee Farber). December 15, 1998. Wife of the late Edward A. Reyer. Beloved mother of Dr. William (Nina) Reyer Esq. and Neil (Suzi) Reyer. Loving grandmother of Stephanie, Rachel, Nikki, Eric and Brittney. Contributions in her memory may be made to Chandler Hall, 99 Barclay St, New
 ROCHE-Louise T. Of Manhattan, on December 14, 1998. Sister of Elga Roche Wheeler of Chatham Township, NJ. Also survived by many nieces and nephews as well as two great-grandnephews. Services are private. Those who wish may contribute in her memory to the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund or to
 SILBERSTEIN-Sylvia. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sorrow the passing of Sylvia Silberstein, beloved wife of our devoted donor, William Silberstein. An artist, philanthropist and loving mother and grandmother, she has been an ardent suppor
 SPITALNY-Ethel Z. Of Aventura, Fl. On December 17, 1998. Beloved wife of Melvin. Devoted mother of David Kahn (Linda), Daniel Kahn (Nancy) and Debra Brun. Adored grandmother of Lesley Berkowitz (Steven), Hillary and Wendy Kahn, Stefanie and Jamie Kahn, Jeffrey Schwartz (Debbie) and Andrew S
 Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall since 1986, died on Friday at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center in Denver. She was 56 and lived in Chappaqua, N.Y. The cause was breast cancer, Carnegie Hall officials said yesterday. Ms. Arro
 ABRAHAM-Stella Kronovet. Dr. and Mrs. Abraham welcomed us at Havdalah in Long Beach fifty years ago. Our family grew up with Danny, Judy, Jerry and Roy z'l, rejoiced with them and shared their sorrow. A visit to her in Toronto was a special experience. May they, their wonderful spouses, gra
 ARRON-Judith. The entire Board of Trustees of Carengie Hall joins us in paying tribute to Judith Arron, a woman of great courage, leadership and vision. Her immeasurable contribtuion to this great hall and her generous, unbounded spirit will now become part of the legacy of Carnegie Hall, a
 COHEN-Renee L. Of New Rochelle, NY, died on December 19, 1998. She was 69. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend. Her fight and will to live lives on in all those who were touched by her. Survived by husband Jerome; sons Carl and Scott; daughter Lynne; son-in-law Yehuda; grandchildre
 FOX-Edna. Age 93, of New York City. Beloved wife of the late Philip Fox. Cherished mother of Millicent Buckner. Adored grandmother of Pamela and David Levine and Jacqueline and Steve Barr. Treasured great-grandmother to Noah, Emma and Cassidy. Also survived by her brothers, sister, nieces a
 FRUCHT-Lucica. The first Romanian political refugee was a courageous intellectual and powerful political person. Lucica was a friend to political people and was a friend of people from Free Europe Radio. She was as an friend of the honorable family of Manuila Popa Thedoru, Dr. Zaharia Lupov
 GRANT-Alice Waters. Passed away peacefully on December 18 at home in Hobe Sound, FL. She joined her beloved husband, Donald who died on November 28, 1998. Their extraordinary marriage lasted for over 66 years. Her humor and generosity touched all who knew her. She never forgot a birthday, a
 LAWFORD-Betty H. December 19, 1998, in West Palm Beach, FL. Widow of Charles Edward Lawford. Survived by her sister, Margo Stevens of Naples, FL, and two Stevens nephews, Bob and Tim. For we devoted friends, she will always be the wordsmith whose humor never failed us and our top notch croq
 MORTON-Gwendolyn. Born on October 24, 1924, in Philadelphia, PA. She relocated to Sarasota, FL, 10 years ago. A graduate of Mt. Holyoke College, with an MSW from Case Western Reserve, she practiced social work. She was active in the Links, Inc., the Brooklyn Lawyers' Wives, and the Associat
 OBICI-Judith L. (Age 48.) On December 19, 1998, of New York. Loving wife of Geoffrey Obici and mother of Danielle Rivera and stepmother of Christopher Obici. Twenty nine year employee and vice president at Citibank. She illuminated the true meaning of friendship, love, kindness and mentor t
 SHANLEY-Helen Lois. Age 91. A resident of the Blooming Grove Hunting and Fishing Club, Pike County, PA, died at Wayne Memorial Hospital, Honesdale, PA, on Saturday, December 19, 1998. Miss Shanley was born to the late William C. and Mary (Ledwith) Shanley on February 1, 1907, in Newark, NJ.
 Janet Brewster Murrow, a radio broadcaster and relief worker during World War II in London, where her husband, Edward R. Murrow, was CBS's star war correspondent, died on Friday at the North Hill retirement community in Needham, Mass., where she lived. She was 88. Mrs. Murrow was bo
 ARRON-Judith. The Philharmonic Symphony-Society of New York, Inc. deeply mourns the passing of Judith Arron, a courageous woman, a distinguished colleague, and a truly exemplary leader in the arts. As Artistic and Executive Director, she led Carnegie Hall through an extraordinary period of 
 CHERTOFF-Livia Eisen. Deeply mourned by her loving sister-inlaw, Lilli, nephew, Daniel Chertoff and niece, Jocelyn Chertoff and their families. A good lady and a good friend. Lilli Sefton Cancelliere       
 GRANT-Alice Waters. Passed away peacefully on December 18 at home in Hobe Sound, FL. She joined her beloved husband, Donald who died on November 28, 1998. Their extraordinary marriage lasted for over 66 years. Her humor and generosity touched all who knew her. She never forgot a birthday, a
 KATZMAN-Hinda. The Community of West End Synagogue is saddened by the recent death of Hinda Katzman and extends its condolences to her family and friends. Hinda, with her late husband Jack, was a founding member of our synagogue and a long-time ardent Labor Zionist. We will miss her incisiv
 LAWFORD-Betty H. December 19, 1998, in West Palm Beach, FL. Widow of Charles Edward Lawford. Survived by her sister, Margo Stevens of Naples, FL, and two Stevens nephews, Bob and Tim. For we devoted friends, she will always be the wordsmith whose humor never failed us and our top notch croq
 LOEB-Hedy (nee Lehmann). Of New York City. On December 21. Age 94. Beloved wife of the late Jacob. Devoted mother of Paul, Ernest, Johanna and the late Betsy Kay and Marianne Loeb. Loving grandmother of five and greatgrandmother of six. Services Tuesday, 11AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Str
 PAGE-Jane N. The Trustees and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Library mourn the death of Jane Nichols Page. She was a Fellow for 47 years, an active Trustee from 1969 to 1990, and Trustee Emerita for the past eight years. Her sage counsel will be greatly missed. Charles E. Pierce, Jr., Directo
 ARRON-Judith. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of our colleague Judith Arron, executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall. A creative and dedicated administrator, she demonstrated great artistic vision and commitment by leading Carnegie Hall through an unprecedented perio
 KLINGER-Elizabeth L. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and great grandmother, a founder of ''Parents Magazine''. A gracious, generous woman whose zest for life, and love of family and friends endeared her to all who knew her. She is survived by sons, Lawrence and Harold, daughters-in-law, I
 McKEE-Mae, on December 22, 1998. Survived by her nieces and nephews Maryellen Barnes, James McKee, Francis McKee, Robert Riordan and Joan Mazzu. Funeral from Francis X. Hatton Funeral Home Inc., 36-46 Bell Blvd, Bayside, NY on Thursday. Mass of Christian Burial at Sacred Heart RC Church at 
 SCHAPIRO-Shirley. Private services were held on Monday, December 21st, 1998 at Old Montefiore Cemetery, Queens, New York. Survived by her beloved children Caren Hilman and Joel Schapiro & loving grandchildren Laurence and Marra Hilman and Marielle Schapiro. Mrs. Schapiro was a lifelong resi
 ARRON-Judith. The American Symphony Orchestra League mourns the passing of Judith Arron. She began her career as Assistant to League President Helen Thompson, and recently she served on the League's Board of Directors. Throughout, she championed the highest standards of artistic excellence 
 GRANNUM-Gertrude L. Was born on Dec. 3, 1912 to Editha and Hugh Grannum in Brooklyn, NY, she graduated Julia Richmond H.S. and went on to Brown Business School. She was one of 15 children, well-known by her sense of humor and wit, and extensive collection of teddy bears. She worked at the I
 MURROW-Janet. It is with a great deal of sorrow that we note the passing of Janet Murrow. As a Trustee, she was involved with the work of the Henry Street Settlement for over 50 years. We extend our sympathies to the family. Board and Staff of the Henry Street Settlement       
 NATHAN-Miriam Kanton. On December 22, 1998. Beloved wife of Robert, mother of Nora, grandmother to Sam, Mark, Adam, Ezra, Zady, Jarret, and Marlee. Services on Thursday, 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. NATHAN-Miriam. Congregation Emanu-El of The City 
 SCHNEIDER-Essie, loving mother of Sylvia and Maggie, grandmother of John Levi and Anne, died peacefully in her 89th year.       
 TOMSON-Rose, of Bloomingburg, NY. A self employed playwright in NYC and formerly of Great Neck, NY, died at her home December 22, 1998. She was 86. The daughter of the late Israel and Celia Lynnchitz, she was born on April 13, 1912 in New York City. She was the widow of New York State Supre
 WHITE-Anne Macgregor on December 22, 1998 in Delray Beach, Florida, in her 94th year, the loving, caring wife of the late John Rigsby White, former president of Imperial Oil Limited and director of Exxon Corporation. Burial took place in her birthplace, London, Ontario. Survived by two daug
 Virginia L. Radley, who as the first female president of a state university college in New York created a general education division and an honors program on the Oswego campus, died on Sunday at her home in Poestenkill, near Albany. She was 71. She suffered a brief illness, the DeGr
 ARRON-Judith. New York City Opera joins the music community in mourning the death of a courageous lady, Judith Arron. Her artistic vision and her commitment to the growth and development of Carnegie Hall will live on and have a continuing impact on the cultural life of our city. We extend h
 CASS-Claire. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the loss of a cherished member of the Jewish community, loving mother and grandmother, and sister of Max Grill, a YU Benefactor and honorary alumnus, who endowed the Max and Marion Grill Deans
 GERARD-Lois K. Of New York City on December 24, 1998 at her home. We note with great grief the passing of the glamorous, lifeembracing, loving mother of Daniele & Gregory, sister of Kenneth, mother-in-law of Dan, grandmother of Fiona and Eamon.       
 TUBIS-Emma. On December 24. Loving wife of the late Harry. A remarkable mother to Jane, Rita, and William. Cherished grandmother of Helena. She was a source of pride and love to us. We will miss her deeply.       
 Virginia Graham, who went from writing radio soap operas in the 1940's to becoming one of the most successful and enduring of the early television talk show hosts, died on Tuesday in the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit of New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan.       
 Irene Hervey, who secured her place as one of Hollywood's most beautiful leading ladies after playing Jimmy Stewart's love interest in the 1939 western ''Destry Rides Again,'' died on Sunday at the hospital of the Motion Picture and Television Fund in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 89 and l
 COHEN-Jeanette J. Resident of Boca Raton, FL and NYC, died on Thursday, December 24, 1998, at Calvary Hospital after an illness. She was the beloved wife of Jerome J. Cohen, mother of Cheryl Krauss of Freeport, New York, Iris Bessell of Lenox, MA., Robert K. Cohen of Scarsdale, New York. Lo
 GOLDSTEIN-Bertha (nee Epstein). On December 24, beloved wife of the late Meyer Goldstein, mother of Joyce Kahn and Rhoda Rand, grandmother of Jeffrey Kahn, Susan Gell, Michael and Gary Rand, great-grandmother of David and Jennifer Kahn, and Jessica and Sarah Rand. She lived a long and fruit
 STEINBERG-Dr. Ursula. A longtime plastic and reconstructive surgeon in the Plainfield, NJ area died on December 24, 1998, at home with her children by her side. A survivor of Nazi Germany, Dr. Steinberg and her parents escaped in 1933 and found refuge in Holland and then Shanghai, China, be
 STRAUSS-Margaret L., 83, suddenly on December 25, peacefully in her sleep. Beloved wife of Charles for over fifty-seven years. Devoted mother of Leyae (deceased), Barbara, Charles, Jr., and Sherry. Adoring grandmother of Emily, Hannah and Noah. Loving sister-in-law of Barbara and Peter Stra
 CASS-Claire. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of its longtime devoted member Max Grill. May her entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 FELDMAN-Rowena Block. Of West Palm Beach. Born in Buffalo, NY. Wife of the late Dr. Raymond Feldman. Survived by her sister, Grace Schienman of Lantana, FL; daughter, Margot Green of Indian Wells, CA, her husband Frank;, her son, Stephen Feldman of Roslyn, NY, his wife Penny Feldman; and he
 GRAHAM-Virginia. The Board, staff and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with profound sorrow the passing of well-known television personality Virginia Graham. She was an eloquent advocate for individuals with cerebral palsy and related disabilities, both as a speaker fo
 HALPERIN-Lynn Muller. Died on December 25, at home with her family. Beloved wife, best friend and partner of 61 years of William Halperin, all a mother could ever be to Jane and Robert Willis, Mary and Martin Marlowe, and Barbara Selling; incredible, loving Granny to Carolyn, David and Susa
 KAYE-Etta Cummins. On December 23. Devoted wife of the late Abraham, beloved mother of Robert, Laurie and Michael, cherished grandmother of Elizabeth, Robin and Andrew, Hilary and Lowell Kronowitz, Elizabeth Wright and Anthony Kaye, and infatuated great-grandmother of William and Jonathan. 
 ROSS-Lillian. The Executive Board and members of Womanspace mourn the passing of Lillian Ross our esteemed member. Her passion and commitment to Womens' issues has made a difference to Womanspace's objectives. We extend our condolences to her husband, children & grandchildren. Claire J. Rot
 STREIT-Nettie. On December 21, 1998. Beloved daughter of the late Jack and the late Ruth. Dear sister of Myrna Heilbrun and the late Arlyne Yagoda. Services at Boulevard-Riverside, 312 Coney Island Avenue at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, today at 12 noon. STREIT-Nettie. With profound sor
 von STACKELBERG-Ellen Biddle. Of NYC (born 1912), Salisbury, CT, as well as 15 years in Germany, died peacefully in her home of 38 years in Albany, VT. Ellen, youngest of three children of Nicholas Biddle and Elizabeth Leroy Emmet, will be deeply and sadly missed by her children Olaf Patric
 Honoria Murphy Donnelly, the daughter of Gerald and Sara Murphy, the golden couple at the center of the modernist whirl in 1920's Europe, who was dandled on the knees of the towering figures of the avant-garde, died on Tuesday at the Hospice of Palm Beach in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 81 and 
 Michelle Thomas, an actress in the television programs ''The Cosby Show,'' ''Family Matters'' and ''The Young and the Restless'' died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 30 and lived in Los Angeles, though she had been staying with her family in Weeh
 ADLER-Ruth C. On December 25, 1998. Beloved wife of the late David F. Adler. Loving mother of Richard C. Adler and mother-inlaw of Andrea K. Nordell. Adoring grandmother of Jared N. Adler. Devoted aunt of Frederic and Henry Tausend. Mrs. Adler was a lifelong member of Central Synagogue. Ser
 ARONS-Eleanor On December 27, 1998, at the age of 83 at Morningside Nursing Home, Bronx, NY. She is survived by her three children, Ludwig, Raymond and Lynne; three grandchildren, Jonathan, Nicholas and Anthony Arons. She was a gifted painter, studying with Samuel Breecher, and created mast
 BERMAN-Florence Resident of NYC almost all her life, she left on Tuesday, December 22, 1998, at age 93. Beloved mother of Gerald Weinstein and loving grandmother of Daniel Weinstein and his wife Anne. She will be missed.       
 ELLMAN-Gloria. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Gloria Ellman, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Bernie, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, Pres.       
 FARRELL-Nancy Lee (nee Fitzhugh). Of Williamsburg, VA (formerly of Teaneck, NJ), on Deccember 24, 1998. Wife of the late George L. Farrell, M.D., mother of Ann McMahon of Pelham Manor, NY, James, George, William and Mark of Virginia, John Farrell of Maryland, sister of Marie Smith of Pittsb
 HALPERIN-Lynn Muller. Died on December 25, at home with her family. Beloved wife, best friend and partner of 61 years of William Halperin, all a mother could ever be to Jane and Robert Willis, Mary and Martin Marlowe, and Barbara Selling; incredible, loving Granny to Carolyn, David and Susa
 KRESHOVER-Bertha. Wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Ruth Kreshover and Joan L. Wiener. Devoted grandmother of Amy, Howard, David and Nancy. Greatgrandmother of nine. A woman of dignity and courage. Loved by her family and friends, she will be missed.       
 ROBERTS-Dr. Elizabeth H. The Board of Directors, faculty, administration and the students of the New York College of Podiatric Medicine and the Foot Clinics of New York mourn the passing of their beloved and esteemed Board member, professor emeritus and alumna. A lecturer and prolific contr
 LINDAUER-Edna Strich (Levy). June 17, 1899-December 28, 1963. Always remembered by her son, Eugene; never forgotten by her late daughter, Caryl       
 Dorothy Bird Nyswander, who was widely regarded as a primary promoter of public health education in this country, died on Dec. 18 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 104. Dr. Nyswander (pronounced nice-wonder) was a founder of the School of Public Health at the University of Cal
 AVRAMOFF-Victoria. She loved and was much loved. Her children Misha & Adele, her grandchildren Gabrielle & Carmi, her daughterin-law Jackie. Services 12 P.M., Tuesday, Riverside Memorial, 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 BERMAN-Florence. Resident of NYC almost all her life, she left on Tuesday, December 22, 1998, at age 93. Beloved mother of Gerald Weinstein and loving grandmother of Daniel Weinstein and his wife Anne. She will be missed.       
 BURKAT-Marion. Died in her sleep on December 21 in Stamford. She lived in Danbury for many years where, with her husband Leonard, she founded and ran the Burkat Program Note Service. The company, now managed by Howard Burkat, was the first, full-time organization of its kind, and continues 
 CHARVAT-Margaret M. Of Tuxedo Park, New York died Saturday, December 26th, 1998 at the Good Samaritan Hospital, Suffern, New York. She was sixty-six. Born in Conventry, England on February 12th, 1932 to Samuel Thomas and Ellen Winifred Collins Long. She was a member of the Tuxedo Club and t
 DVORIN-Gertrude. Adored wife of the late Milton. Loving mother of Umi Liens and Leonard. Grandmother to Joshua, Allie, Matthew and Ben and great-grandmother. Lifelong resident of Linden, New Jersey, 1935 graduate of Douglas College, lifelong member of Hadassah, Gert was known for her intell
 GROSS-Lynn. Community School Board 28 Queens and the entire District 28 School Community, express sorrow at the passing of our esteemed colleague and beloved friend. As an educator, long-term Board Member and past President of School Board 28, she devoted her life to the educational betterm
 HAYETT-Reba Sochis. December 25, 1998. Beloved wife of the late William Hayett. She was a pioneer in the advertising field and one of the first women members of the Art Directors Hall of Fame. Friends will be received on Wednesday, December 30, 9-10 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av
 HEUMANN-Ilse J. Age 76. Beloved wife of the late Werner Heumann, member of Carlson's Marine Raiders. Loving mother of Judy, Joe and Rick, loving mother-inlaw of Julie, Mary and Jorge. Beloved grandmother of Kristin. Loving sister-in-law of Leopold and Ruth and Carrie. Surrogate mother to Lo
 KESSLER-Helen. On December 24, 1998. Died suddenly. Devoted wife for fifty-five years of Murray Kessler. Beloved mother of Stefanie Larsen and mother-in-law of Gregory Larsen. Adored grandmother of Joshua Larsen. She will be dearly missed and lovingly remembered. KESSLER-Helen. It i
 KRAMER-Rose. Age 91, on December 27. Of Astoria, New York, and Far Rockaway, NY. Wife for 64 years of Samuel Kramer, of blessed memory; devoted member of Congregation Beth Jacob. Beloved mother of Marlene and Lionel Press and Eileen Barron; sister of Elaine & Lester Horowitz and Irving and 
 KURY-Sabrina. Age 35. On December 27, 1998. Beloved daughter of Bernard and Valerie. Sister of Susannah and Kristin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday, December 29th, 5-9PM with service Wednesday 11:30AM. Interment in Florida. In lieu of flower
 RAFFEL-Jeannette. Born Oct. 14, 1909 to Louis and Fannie Raffel of Ansonia, Connecticut, died on Dec. 23, 1998. She was a graduate of Hunter College with a Teaching Masters from Columbia University. Jeannette taught Elementary School in Long Beach Long Island for over thirty years until her
 RAYMER-Melvina S., 80, longtime former resident of New York City, died of cancer on December 24, 1998 at Hospice House, Barnstable, Mass. Widow of Paul H. Raymer. Survived by her children, Paul H. Raymer, Falmouth, Mass. and Victoria E. Raymer, MiltonErnest, Bedfordshire, England and three 
 SALOMON-Mildred Peel, 91 years old, of Palm Beach, Florida, formerly of New York, New York, died Saturday, December 26, 1998, at her residence in Palm Beach. Mrs. Salomon was preceded in death by her husband, Ellsworth G. Salomon. She is survived by her brother, Clifford W. Peel (wife, Mary
 THOLFSEN-Rachel Alexander, died on December 26, 1998 in her 98th year. She was a graduate of Hunter College, and a dedicated teacher of foreign languages at James Madison High School and a member of the Teachers' Union. Widow of the late Erling Tholfsen, loving mother and grandmother to Jud
 If you saw her at all, you'd see her in a cemetery late at night. She'd be clambering about one of those huge cemeteries in Brooklyn and Queens, the ones beneath the flight paths to La Guardia and Kennedy, the ones you can see from certain expressways; the graveyards with comforting names l
 ADLER-Ruth C. Central Synagogue and its Sisterhood record with profound sorrow the passing of their longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President Shirley Steinhauser, Sisterhood President       
 COHEN-Gertrude. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its longtime devoted and dedicated member Joyce Weitz. May her entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood      
 ERBSEN-Laura Treves, 87, died peacefully in her sleep December 26. Wife of the late Henry Erbsen. Loving mother of Claude Erbsen, and loving grandmother of Diana, Allan and Michael. Interment is private.       
 GASKIN-Gloria. On Saturday, December 26, 1998 of Wayne, N.J., formerly of Rutherford, NJ and the Peter Cooper Village in NYC. Public Relations Representative for AT&T Corp., NYC for 35 years retiring in 1977. Funeral services will be held Thursday 11AM at the Hillside Cemetery, Lyndhurst, N
 GOLDSTEIN-Lynette, who celebrated the beauty of life and devotedly cherished her family and friends. Dear wife of Joseph, daughter of Rose Silverman, mother of Jodi, and Susan and Andrew Parower, grandmother of Samantha and Morgan Sproul, and Alec and Zoe Parower. Contributions in her memor
 KURY-Sabrina. Age 35. On December 27, 1998. Beloved daughter of Bernard and Valerie. Sister of Susannah and Kristin. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday, December 29th, 5-9PM with service Wednesday 11:30AM. Interment in Florida. In lieu of flower
 LANDAU-Valerie. Born in Budapest, Hungary in 1915, died on December 29, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. Loving mother of Adrienne, Jack and Elaine. Dear sister of Olga Polgar. She was the brightest light of all of our lives, guiding us with her positive loving nature and inspiration
 SALOMON-Mildred. The Officers, Board of Governors and Members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed life member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Jay M. Rosen, President Corey B. Rabin, Secretary       
 SEIDENSTEIN-Donna. The staff of the Kings County District Attorney's office mourns with deep sorrow the untimely passing of Donna Seidenstein. Her boundless energy, zest for life and compassion will be missed by all who came in contact with her, especially those victims of Domestic Violence
 USADI-Kathleen, age 57, died Monday, December 28, 1998, in Brooklyn. Wife of Bob, mother of Douglas and Ben, sister of Patty Lollis. Her life was rich with feelings for growing things, painting, listening, talking, information, friends. She loved working with children. She was not a simple 
 BIRDOFF-Helen. December 24, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Charles Birdoff, loving mother of Harvey and Sandra, and motherin-law of Joyce and Bernard. Grandmother of Gwen, Robin, Rick, Michael and Jeffrey, greatgrandmother of Jessica, Jordan, Zachary, Marissa, Erica, Alix, Kayle, Reid, Chel
 FREEDMAN-Romy. Age 18, succumbed to her four year battle on Dec. 29, 1998. Service today at Riverside Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, Manhattan, at 1:30 P.M. Romy will be remembered as a loving daughter, grand daughter, niece, cousin, and friend.       
 HARTIGAN-Frances Gaynor. 88, died peacefully Dec. 30, 1998 in Albany, NY after suffering many years of Alzheimers Disease. Born in Troy, NY, she resided there until 1980 and was the daughter of the late John Dolan and Josephine A. McGovern Gaynor. Frances graduated from Catholic Central Hig
 KAUFMAN-Beryl Berger. Born February 27, 1902. Died December 29, 1998. Adored wife of the late Emanuel Kaufman. Beloved mother and mother-in-law of Jay and Anita. Cherished grandmother of Nina, Laurance and John. Beryl was a woman of great strength and determination who delighted in life. Sh
 WOLF-Thekla (Oma). She was blessed with the spirit of giving. She passed away on Saturday, December 26 at the age of 96. Beloved wife of Karl, mother of Elsa and Ingeborg, grandmother of Donna, Craig, Karla, Lisa, and John. Great grandmother of Alyssa, Sara, Emma, Jared, Caitlin, and Dylan.
 Viola Farber, a founding member of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, a choreographer and the director of the dance program at Sarah Lawrence College, died on Dec. 24 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 67 and lived in Bronxville. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, J
