 ARMSTRONG--Sheila H. The Women's National Republican Club mourns the loss of Sheila Armstrong, former President (1977-1980) and member for more than four decades. Sheila will always be remembered for her service and devotion. Evelyn Angevine Silla, Pres. and The Board of Governors of the Wo
 CONROY--Barbara. Emmy-Award winner and battlefield journalist wrapped production on May 26, 2005. The ''Beloved'' and her giftfor-laughter will be missed by the parents she adored, her siblings, and her friends beyond number. To them, Roger and the Yaseen Family send all love.       
 DEKELBOUM--Elsie. The Board of Governors and members of the Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, FL, acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Elsie Dekelboum. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved family. Robert Rachesky, President       
 FERRANTI--Marie nee Giresi, age 96 of Port Washington on May 13, 2005. Former Director of Promotions and an employee of The NY Times for 48 years. Devoted wife of the late Joseph, loving sister of Mae, Josephine, Jane and the late James, Antionette and Frank. Also survived by many nieces an
 FRIEDMAN--Gertrude 87, of Paramus, NJ, on May 30, 2005. Predeceased by her husband Julius. Beloved mother and grandmother.       
 GOODMAN--Ruth. The Kaufman Center mourns the passing of its long-time Board Member. Our hearts go out to Leonard and Connie Goodman and the entire Goodman family and to her sisters Betty Fox and Lena Ocko. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Elaine Kaufman, Chair
 KOCH--Gertrude. Columbia, SC. Gertrude Brennan Carr Koch, 91, beloved wife of the late Otto Charles Koch, died Sunday, May 22, 2005 in Columbia. Born on July 19, 1913 in Newark, NJ, she was the daughter of the late Arthur and Gertrude Carr. She was a graduate of the College of St. Elizabeth
 LAQUERCIA -- Evelyn M. (nee Fernandez). Of Brooklyn, NY, on May 29, 2005. Born in Oviedo, Spain, on November 2, 1943, beloved wife of Thomas Michael Laquercia, loving mother of Thomas Peter, Marc Anthony and Justin Gregory, devoted sister, caring and cherished aunt. Evelyn arrived in Americ
 LEE--Shin Za, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of Blythedale Children's Hospital notes with deep sorrow the sudden passing of our dear friend and colleague. As an outstanding member of our Medical Staff in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine for almost 25 y
 LEVENSTEIN -- Dr. Phyllis. Died in Rome on May 28, 2005 at the age of 88. Beloved wife of the late Sidney, loving mother of Susan and Daniel. A clinical psychologist who continued practicing until the very end, she founded, and directed for over thirty years, The Parent-Child Home Program, 
 MADDEN--Audrey. The Brooklyn Botanic Garden mourns the passing, on May 12, of our dear friend and colleague Audrey Madden. She retired from our Board of Trustees in 2003 after 20 years of devoted service. She always brought good humor, intelligence and great affection to all of her work at 
 McMANUS--Helen (Doody), a Belle Harbor resident for 56 years, died at home on May 30. She was 88. Helen, a graduate of Mount St. Vincent College, class of 1938, was Dean of the Business Department from 1966-1979 at Christ the King High School. She was preceded in death by her husband Peter 
 REICHMAN--Joan Canale, 76, died Sunday, May 29, 2005 after a long battle with cancer. Joan enjoyed an illustrious 45 years career in production and the arts in New York City. She began at Grey Advertising Agency creating commercials for Good Humor. She moved on to the Kudner Advertising Age
 SHAPIRO--Louella. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Louella Shapiro, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. June Walker, Nat'l President       
 STARR--Gertrude (Trudy). Beloved wife of Murray, loving mother of Jeremy and Alice Starr and Karen Starr and Robert Puswald, devoted grandmother of Benjamin, Lisa, Jake and Jed. She worked and loved as hard for her family, friends and patients. Services at 10:30 AM Thursday, June 2 Beth Dav
 WARREN -- Lucy Sinclaire, died at home on May 31 at age 93. Wife of the late Dr. Robert F. Warren of Brooklyn. Mother of Fiske Warren of Manhattan & Cicily Hajek of Sharon, CT. Grandmother of Schenley, Matthew, Luke, Chris, Mathilde and Justin and great-grandmother of three. She loved her f
 ASHER--Sara, 85 years old, died on June 1, 2005. Beloved wife of George. Loving mother of Janice, Judy and Henry. Adoring grandmother of ten. Dear sister of Hyman Freedman and Irene Heartz. Services Friday 10 AM at Temple Beth-El of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Road. In lieu of flowers donations 
 FALLON--Larry. On June 2, 2005, of Hoboken, NJ, age 68. Devoted father to Elisa Gansley and her husband John. Dear brother to Patricia O'Connell. Loving companion to Alisa Farina. Funeral from A.K. Macagna Funeral Home, 495 Anderson Ave, Cliffside Park, NJ, Monday, June 6, at 9:15 AM, thenc
 GLADSTEIN -- Joyce. Life time love of husband Harvey. Incredible and cherished mother of Bruce, Jane and Dale. Loved mother-in-law of Debbie and Lance. Adored, irreverent Gram of Lauren, Danny, Adam and Ethan. Our hero. Services Friday, 10AM at ''The Riverside'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave.
 GRAFSTEIN -- Jane Brick man, on May 31, 2005. Beloved wife of the late David Grafstein. Devoted mother and best friend of Sally G. Blinken. Adoring grandmother of Allegra Jane Blinken and James David Blinken. She was a woman of style and substance. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made 
 LAREDO--Ruth. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with deep sorrow the untimely passing of the distinguished American pianist Ruth Laredo on May 25 in New York City at the age of 67. A highly valued member of our Steinway Artist family for twenty years, Ms. Laredo was an accomplished soloist
 LEVENSTEIN -- Phyllis. We mourn the loss of our Founder. Her understanding of the importance of parent-child verbal interaction has provided hope, opportunity, and academic success to generations of young children. The Parent-Child Home Program Board of Directors       
 MARSHALL--Jeanne E., 84, passed away on May 30 at 1PM in State College, Pennsylvania, after a long battle with cancer. She is survived by her husband, George, a retired partner of the accounting firm Arthur Andersen and Co.; her sons, Richard, a partner in the law firm of Kirkpatrick & Lock
 FELSEN--Esther. Missed, remembered and loved everyday. Her family       
 CHAMBERLIN -- Carole Hecht. The Greater New York City Affiliate of the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation mourns the loss of Carole Hecht Chamberlin, our longtime Board member and Survivor Chair. She will always be remembered for her unwavering service, her extraordinary compassion for
 FARKAS--Mollie, 85, beloved and loving mother of Richard (Shelley) and Steven (Catherine); devoted sister of Marvin Antonowsky; adoring grandmother of Michael, Jessica and Allison. In lieu of flowers donations in her memory may be made to the United Jewish Federation. Services 10 AM, Sunday
 GALLAGHER--Nora (Dorothy) with her loving family at her side, passed away peacefully Thursday, June 2, 2005 at the age of 87. She is survived by her sisters Helen King, Mary Rogers, Joan Farrell and Anne Terry and a brother Eugene Terry (Carol) and the late Michael Gallagher. She leaves nie
 GLADSTEIN -- Joyce. Life time love of husband Harvey. Incredible and cherished mother of Bruce, Jane and Dale. Loved mother-in-law of Debbie and Lance. Adored, irreverent Gram of Lauren, Danny, Adam and Ethan. Our hero. In lieu of flowers contributions in her memory may be made to Make a Wi
 LAREDO--Ruth. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with deep sorrow the untimely passing of the distinguished American pianist Ruth Laredo on May 25 in New York City at the age of 67. A highly valued member of our Steinway Artist family for twenty years, Ms. Laredo was an accomplished soloist
 LURIE--Sanna Klaveness. Died Monday, May 30, 2005, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Dear daughter of Clara Normann Klaveness. Sister of Harda K. Fellows. Devoted aunt and cousin. Beloved wife of the late Iles Brody. She enjoyed her interesting and independent life as a fashio
 ROSENBAUM--Esther H., on June 2, 2005. Beloved wife of Jacob. Loving mother of Janet and Lawrence. Dear sister of Helen and Daniel. Adoring grandmother of Jonathan. Dear mother-inlaw of Hope. Private service. ROSENBAUM--Esther. Congregation Emanu-El of The City of New York records w
 WOODS--Mary E. of Clinton, CT, died of lung cancer on May 24, 2005, at the age of 75. She was the daughter of John B.C. Woods and Elizabeth Galloway Woods. A New York City native, she graduated from Cornell University and received her Master's degree from Columbia University School of Socia
 AARON--Frieda Wakschlag. Holocaust survivor, educator and author of ''Bearing the Unbearable,'' a book on Holocaust poetry, died on May 31, 2005. Her loving core has inspired all who knew her. Her four grandchildren Noah, Adam, Michelle and Brian were her greatest joy. Dr. Aaron is survived
 ALBERT--Jane. Died May 12, after a long illness. Survived by her sons Jeff and Rick and granddaughter Emily. Married to the late John Albert. Memorial service at her home on June 11.       
 BORCHARDT--Lillian. June 2, 2005, San Diego, CA, in her 98th year. Dearly loved. Andrea L. Cines Steven A. Cohen       
 BRIGHTMAN--Sharin Beckerman, 82, on June 1, 2005. Beloved mother of Ezra, Fred and Adam. Adoring grandmother of Anna and August. She was a brave and caring woman, admired and loved for her style, grace and humor. We will keep her in our hearts forever.       
 DONEGER--Helen. The congregation of East End Temple deeply mourns the passing of our longtime member, past officer and Board trustee. Helen Doneger was a devoted and committed member whose wise counsel and loyal service enriched our Temple for over forty years. Our sincere condolences to he
 FALLON--Larry. On June 2, 2005, of Hoboken, NJ, age 68. Devoted father to Elisa Gansley and her husband John. Dear brother to Patricia O'Connell. Loving companion to Alisa Farina. Funeral from A.K. Macagna Funeral Home, 495 Anderson Ave, Cliffside Park, NJ, Monday, June 6, at 9:15 AM, thenc
 GLADSTEIN -- Joyce. Life time love of husband Harvey. Incredible and cherished mother of Bruce, Jane and Dale. Loved mother-in-law of Debbie and Lance. Adored, irreverent Gram of Lauren, Danny, Adam and Ethan. Our hero. In lieu of flowers contributions in her memory may be made to Make a Wi
 GROSS--Dr. Gisela Stein. Professor and author. Dr. Gisela Stein Gross, a former Professor of Modern Languages and Comparative Literature at Brooklyn College who also had taught at Vassar and NYU. Dr. Stein Gross was the author of many scholarly articles and books among them the only compreh
 LAURENS--Grace. On June 2, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Stephen, devoted mother of Peter, dear sister of George, admired sister - in - law of Toshiko and loving aunt of William and Tony Elison. She had an eventful life that spanned a world war and two continents and will be sorely missed 
 LURIE--Sanna Klaveness. Died Monday, May 30, 2005, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Dear daughter of Clara Normann Klaveness. Sister of Harda K. Fellows. Devoted aunt and cousin. Beloved wife of the late Iles Brody. She enjoyed her interesting and independent life as a fashio
 MONGERSON--Carol. October 14, 1927--May 27, 2005. Actor, artist, anti-nuclear activist, author, director, mother, teacher, wife and a rare person of the highest caliber. Leaves a legacy of strong character and conviction for all to emulate. Will be deeply missed by all priviledged to have k
 APFELBAUM--Shirley. Died peacefully June 4, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Max Apfelbaum. Loving mother of Nathan, William and Bonnie. Grandmother of Jennifer, Jason, Jennifer and David Wiener. Great-grandmother of Julia, Zachary and Olivia. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory m
 COHEN--Florence. 99, June 3, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Murray. Caring, loving mother of Arnold, Howard and George. Mother-in-law of Barbara, the late Lynda, and Ellen Cohen. Grandmother of David, Richard, Shari, Lisa and Matthew. Great-grandmother of eight. She took two boys, aged seve
 JONES--Juliet Nicola. 35, died on Friday, June 3, 2005, after a three year bout with cancer. She was born in Amersham, England, in 1969, to Richard and Dorothy Luke. She is survived by her daughter Katherine Juliet, sister Rebecca, mother Dorothy, father Richard and husband Richard. We will
 RAPAPORT -- Marjorie O'Brien. April 13, 1918--May 27, 2005. In memory of our mother, an artist and citizen of the world. We love her. Jill and Pola       
 SAMET--Greta. Of New York, died on February 28th, 2005, and was buried next to her sister in Israel. She married Joseph Blumberg, who died in 1964, and later Ilya Samet, who passed on in 1970. Born in Frankfurt in 1914, to David Friedrich Weil and Recha Rosenberg, she lived in Paris from 19
 SCHRECKER - HELLER -- Ma rian. 91, formerly of New York City, died peacefully June 2, 2005, at Medford Leas, Medford, NJ. She is survived by her son John Schrecker, grandsons Michael and Daniel Schrecker, and greatgranddaughters Pazit and Ila Schrecker. Widow of Dr. Karl Steiner of Rumburk,
 BERGER--Ruth (nee Miller). of Brooklyn, N.Y. Died peacefully on June 5, 2005 at the age of 87. She spent the prior day with her loving children Bill, Linda Levine, Carol Feingold and her brother Phil. She was predeceased by her beloved husband Harry, son Michael and brother Morty, and is su
 CAPELLUTO--Laura. Passed away suddenly on June 5. Beloved wife and adored mother of Bettina Emden and Shirley Benowitz. Devoted mother-in-law of James Emden and Richard Benowitz. Loving grandmother of Michael, Jennifer, Jason and Andrew. Survived by sisters Sol and Marie, brothers Aaron and
 DOUGHERTY -- Wilma Eli zabeth Dobie, age 86, devoted wife of 60 years to John W. Dougherty, M.D. of Scarsdale, NY and Jupiter, FL, entered into eternal rest on June 2, 2005 at their home in Jupiter, FL with her loving family by her side. Born in Reading, PA in 1918, she received a B.A. from
 GIBELMAN--Margaret. Wurzweiler School of Social Work of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a great colleague, scholar, author, researcher, mentor, and leader in the social work field. She was Professor of Social Work and Director of Wurzweiler's Doctoral Program. We extend our heartfe
 SERPER -- Charlotte. Dear mother of Barry (Brenda), proud grandmother of Jon (Carole), great grandmother of Brett and Lauren. Sister of Howard (Phyllis) Seplowe. May she rest in peace.       
 WEIDMAN--Peggy, 91, died peacefully in her sleep on June 3, 2005. Gracious, charming, elegant, and witty, she is survived by her sons, John and Jeff, her grandchildren, Jonathan and Laura, her daughter-in-law, Lila, and her best and oldest friend Jane, all of whom appreciated her, enjoyed h
 YANKAUER -- Mary. The Board of Directors, Staff and Volunteers of The Burden Center For The Aging, note with profound sadness, the loss of Mary Yankauer, our distinguished Founding Executive Director. Her dedication and commitment to the Agency, and to helping others, enhanced the growth of
 Anne Bancroft, the stage and film star whose signature triumphs in a 50-year career ranged from the courageous Annie Sullivan in ''The Miracle Worker'' to the hungrily seductive Mrs. Robinson in ''The Graduate,'' died on Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 73 and had 
 BARROWS--Barbara M. (nee Martin). Beloved wife of Gordon Barrows for 37 years. Born in Philadelphia, January 30, 1932, died peacefully from complications of heart disease, June 7, 2005. She is survived by her husband, brother, nephews and niece. After a successful career as a model and fash
 BUTLER -- Elizabeth Ga brielle. October 4, 1987-June 5, 2005. Beloved daughter of Bill and Patty Butler. Cherished sister of Bonni and Merideth. Devoted granddaughter of Joan and the late John Butler of Fort Lauderdale, FL., and Isabel Walsh of Eastchester, NY. Cherished niece to many aunts
 DEACY--Frances (Mary) died Monday, June 6, 2005. Beloved wife of the late John P. She was the daughter of the late Walter Monaghan of Shrule & Mary (nee Hopkins) of Crimlin, Co. Mayo. Loving mother of John (Jennifer), Mary (Nicolas) Havouis, Michael (Maureen), Eileen (George) Benack, Kathle
 GILLESPIE--Claire M. Born August 12, 1914 in Dobbs Ferry, died on June 6, 2005. She was a retired New York City school teacher who moved to Scarsdale in 1972 from Brooklyn. She was very active in her parish of Immaculate Heart of Mary and she managed the library of spiritual and religious b
 PODAIR--Sara Solove, 94, on June 5, 2005 in Greensboro, NC. Widow of Reuben Solove and Barney Podair. Preceded in death by parents Fannie and Harry Schlenger and siblings Beatrice Levine, Alice Riskin, Dora Thorn, Louis, Henry & Herman Schlenger. Survived by Lawrence and Riva and Arnold and
 ROSENFIELD -- Ruth. Of West 79th Street, NYC, on May 31. Predeceased by her parents, Elsie and Walter Rosenfield.       
 YANKAUER -- Mary. The Board of Directors, Staff and Volunteers of The Burden Center For The Aging, note with profound sadness, the loss of Mary Yankauer, our distinguished Founding Executive Director. Her dedication and commitment to the Agency, and to helping others, enhanced the growth of
 Audrey G. Hochberg, a former New York State assemblywoman, died yesterday morning at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Scarsdale. The cause was uterine cancer, her daughter Judith Hochberg said. A Democrat, Ms. Hochberg represented 
 ARRICK--Ellen. June 8, 2005. Beloved wife, mother, daughter, friend, colleague. Survived by her husband, Martin Arrick; children Daniel, Graham, and Alexander; parents Robert and Jeanne Potash, and sister Janet Potash. Funeral service Thursday (today) 1:15pm, Temple Beth Shalom, Hastings-on
 BANCROFT--Anne. The American Academy of Dramatic Arts mourns the loss of its esteemed alumna Anne Bancroft, Class of 1950, and we extend our deepest condolences to her husband and son. Samuel Davis, Chairman Roger Croucher, President Board of Trustees BANCROFT--Anne. My sweetest mem
 BARROWS--Barbara M. (nee Martin). Beloved wife of Gordon Barrows for 37 years. Born in Philadelphia, January 30, 1932, died peacefully from complications of heart disease, June 7, 2005. She is survived by her husband, brother, nephews and niece. After a successful career as a model and fash
 DEACY--Frances (Mary) died Monday, June 6, 2005. Beloved wife of the late John P. She was the daughter of the late Walter Monaghan of Shrule & Mary (nee Hopkins) of Crimlin, Co. Mayo. Loving mother of John (Jennifer), Mary (Nicolas) Havouis, Michael (Maureen), Eileen (George) Benack, Kathle
 GROSS--Dr. Gisela Stein. We mourn the loss of a special friend who cared deeply about the people of Jerusalem and their health-care needs. We will always remember and cherish her outstretched hand of kindness. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American 
 HOGELAND--Elizabeth, 75, died June 7, 2005, a resident of Colebrook, CT. She is survived by her sons, David and William of NYC, Webster of Thaxton, VA, her sisters, Eleanor Shakin of NYC and Clarissa Atkinson of Cambridge, MA, her friend, Joan Balaguer of Denver, CO, a granddaughter and ste
 MINKEN--Cynthia (Spielberg), 78, of Freehold, NJ, formerly of The Bronx and Westchester, on June 8, 2005. Devoted wife of the late Albert. Beloved mother of Aron, Steven and his wife Wanda, and Karen MinkenPickover and her husband Dr. Lawrence Pickover. Cherished grandmother of seven. A won
 SCHNEIDER--Shayne Rachel. Died peacefully of leukemia on June 5, 2005 in Seattle, WA. Mourned by her parents, Louis and Prolet Schneider, her children, Keely, Zahava and Liam and their father, Dr. William Ball, her sisters Yehudith, Tamar and Aviva, friend and companion, William Woodson and
 CHACE--Raymonde. Of New Rochelle on June 8, 2005. Beloved wife of William. Loving mother of Valerie Magee and her husband John. Grandmother of Douglas Magee. Visiting at John J. Fox Funeral Home, Inc. 2080 Boston Post Road Larchmont, NY 10538 on Sunday 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Mass Monday 11:00 AM a
 HOCHBERG--Audrey. The Board and staff of Planned Parenthood Hudson Peconic note with deep sadness the death of our esteemed colleague Audrey Hochberg. She will be greatly missed as a lifelong advocate for human rights and as a dear friend to Planned Parenthood. We extend our heartfelt condo
 HOGELAND--Elizabeth, 75, died June 7, 2005, a resident of Colebrook, CT. She is survived by her sons, David and William of NYC, Webster of Thaxton, VA, her sisters, Eleanor Shakin of NYC and Clarissa Atkinson of Cambridge, MA, her friend, Joan Balaguer of Denver, CO, a granddaughter and ste
 LOEWENGART--Gerda, 93, died peacefully on June 9 in her home in New York City. Born in 1911 in Stuttgart, Germany to Joseph & Helena Tiefenthal, she came to the United States in 1937 with her husband Arthur Loewengart and her family. She is survived by her daughters, Ruth Goldmuntz and Mimi
 PEREL--Anna Z. Loving sister of Jules and James. Beloved daughter of the late Bella and Aria. Loving aunt of Andrew, Erica, Melissa, Alissa and Stephen. Graduate of A.H.R.C. Mayflower and Brown house training program. Prime subject of a mother's dedication. Munchkin's passing leaves a heart
 PUJOL--Bianca A. Beloved daughter of Jean-Claude Pujol and Claudia Goncalves da Souza. Deceased on May 26, 2005 in Brazil at the age of 27. Memorial Mass will be celebrated on Saturday, June 25 at 11AM at St. Vincent de Paul Church, 123 West 23 St, NYC. She will be missed by all--family and
 RICHARDSON--Dr. Mary Ann (nee Sanchirico). 67, a research scientist and professor of psychiatry at NYU, who devoted her career to improving the lives of those with schizophrenia, died on June 9, 2005 of breast cancer. Working until the time of her death as director of the Movement Disorders
 TOGLIA--Ann Theresa on June 8, 2005. Survived by her parents Orazio and Rose Martinelli Toglia. Funeral Mass Friday (today) June 10th at St. Peter and Paul Church, Mt. Vernon at 10:00 AM. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Gilda's Club Worldwide, 322 8th Ave, Suite 1402, New York, 
 Annie Toglia, who developed a physical rehabilitation program for women with breast cancer, died in Mount Kisco, N.Y. on Wednesday. She was 56. Her family said the cause was complications of the disease. When Ms. Toglia learned she had late-stage breast cancer in 1996, she h
 Clare Lynch O'Brien, an author, editor and consultant to children's television, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 62. The cause was breast cancer, her sister Eileen Lynch Sussan said. Mrs. O'Brien was a senior children's editor at Random House and a longtime
 HOCHBERG--Hon. Audrey. The Fund and Committee for Modern Courts are saddened by the loss of Hon. Audrey Hochberg, who served as Vice Chair of our Board of Directors. In public and private life, Audrey Hochberg was committed to a fair and equal justice system, and was instrumental in helping
 LOEWENGART--Gerda. The Auxiliary of the Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institute records with deep sorrow the passing of Gerda Loewengart, a dedicated member for many years. She served with great distinction and was admired by all who knew her. She will be sorely missed. Sue Chapro
 MANDEL--Esther, June 9, 2005, 83 years old. Born in Poland, she came to America at age seven and grew up in NYC. A graduate of Hunter College, she went on to become an executive buyer for Lerner Shops Corp. for over 30 years. A passionate patron of the arts and avid traveler, whe was a woma
 Pamela May, a leading British dancer in the early years of the Royal Ballet who helped that company, then called Sadler's Wells Ballet, take New York by storm in 1949, died on Monday, the Royal Ballet announced in London. She was 88. Although she was overshadowed in the troupe by he
 COHN--Emma. April 29, in her beloved France. Bronx booster, visionary librarian, champion of film and video artists. Remembered by friends around the world for her kind heart and gentle spirit.       
 EWESON -- Dorothy Dillon died at her home in Far Hills, NJ on June 8th at the age of 92. The daughter of the late Clarence and Anne Dillon and the sister of the late C. Douglas Dillon, she is survived by her three children, Christine Allen of NY, Philip Allen of Far Hills, NJ and Douglas Al
 FALK--Rose. 89, formerly of New York, died on June 3rd, 2005, in Tucson, AZ. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Falk. Devoted mother of Eugene (Susan), David (Laura) and Stephen (Marcia). Grandmother and great-grandmother. We honor and celebrate her life and spirit.       
 HOFFMAN -- Winifred M. Born August 24, 1913 in Freeport, Illinois. Moved to Brooklyn in 1920. Died June 6, 2005 in Brooklyn. Retired from the New York Times in 1983 with over 30 years of service. She was pre-deceased by her husband David K. Hoffman who died in 1968. Survived by her brother 
 KLEIN--Nancy H. On June 4, 2005. Beloved wife of Harold, daughter of Yetta and Jonas, sister of Helen and Stanley, Sandy, Audrey and Bob, aunt and dear friend, died peacefully at home after a long illness. Nancy's wisdom, strength and spirit enriched our lives. Her innate taste and style pr
 KURLAND--Roselle, on June 7, 2005. Beloved teacher and friend. Loved daughter of the late Mandel & Lillian Kurland. Dear sister of David. Memorial services Thursday, June 16, 4PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations may be made to The Roselle Kurland Scholarship
 LAREDO--Ruth. On behalf of the international music publishing firm of C.F. Peters, we regret with much affection and deepest sympathy the passing of Ruth Laredo. Current and future generations of musicians will forever benefit from the new Urtext publications of Rachmaninoff Preludes that R
 LEMING--Beatrice Willard. Age 78 at her home in Stony Brook, on June 8, 2005. She graduated in 1947 from Vassar College and taught for many years in the Three Village School District. She is survived by her husband Howell, her daughter Mary Claire, two step-sons, and her niece and nephew. S
 RICHARDS--Miriam S. (Pam) 98, August 24, 2004. Widow of Harold J. Richards, mother of Nancy R. Osman and Peter S. Richards, grandmother of Deborah Osman Fieber, Elizabeth A. Osman, Susannah Richards and Alexandra Richards. She had six great grandchildren and was predeceased by her grandson,
 RICHARDSON--Dr. Mary Ann (nee Sanchirico). 67, a research scientist and professor of psychiatry at NYU, who devoted her career to improving the lives of those with schizophrenia, died on June 9, 2005 of breast cancer. Working until the time of her death as director of the Movement Disorders
 SCHWARTZ--Sheila Schiff. Of Syracuse, N.Y. Died on June 8 after a long debilitating illness. Cherished by her devoted husband Irving. Deeply mourned by daughters Suellen Carman, Sally Lang & sister Ellyn Berman. She is lovingly remembered by grandchildren, nieces and nephews and dear friend
 TURNER--Margaret, 98, died on June 7, 2005 at her home in Chevy Chase, Md. Formerly a resident of Brooklyn, she was an active member of Nazarene Congregational Church, the Brooklyn Girl Friends, and the Brooklyn Botanic Garden. She was married to the late Raymond W. Turner, and is survived 
 EWESON -- Dorothy Dillon died at her home in Far Hills, NJ on June 8th at the age of 92. The daughter of the late Clarence and Anne Dillon and the sister of the late C. Douglas Dillon, she is survived by her three children, Christine Allen of NY, Philip Allen of Far Hills, NJ and Douglas Al
 GILBERT--Sharon. June 9, in Brooklyn. Maker of artist books, sculptor in ceramic and paper. Wife of Vyt Bakaitis, mother of Elena Floris and Ellery Gilbert. Daughter of Sylvia, sister of Linda. She stays with us much loved, ever loving as she was.       
 HELSEL--Selma Geshwin, a resident of Aventura, Florida, passed on peacefully after a brave struggle with cancer on Saturday, June 11, 2005, at the age of 88. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Milton Helsel of Lynn, MA. Devoted mother of Eileen Swartz and Meryl and Robert Meltzer. Adored grandmot
 LEMING--Beatrice Willard. Age 78 at her home in Stony Brook, on June 8, 2005. She graduated in 1947 from Vassar College and taught for many years in the Three Village School District. She is survived by her husband Howell, her daughter Mary Claire, two step-sons, and her niece and nephew. S
 LERNER -- Mildred. Caring, dependable friend and ally who assisted in bearing the burdens and sharing the joys that life presents. We shall miss her. Rona and Charlie Shays       
 STAHL--Edith. 82, died peacefully in her sleep at home in Bayside, Queens, on June 9. Beloved wife of 58 years of Frank, retired Chief Engineer with Ammann & Whitney, and loving mother of David, a symphony and opera conductor of Charleston, SC, and Munich, and Robert, a physician of Atlanta
 TOMEK--Lillian A. Born December 30th, 1926, died June 10th, 2005. Beloved daughter of the late Joseph and Antonia Tomek. Loving companion of Eugene Hausman. Loyal friend of Ruth, Sarah, Roberta and Laurie. She will be missed by all. Funeral services private.       
 BAER--Eva. 83, passed away June 8, 2005. Predeceased by her father Ludwig Baer and mother Clara, brothers Werner and Rudolf Baer and nephew Andrew Baer. Survived by her nephew John Baer, his wife Sherri, and daughters Alexandra and Abigail; also, grandniece Jessica and grandnephew David and
 BURSTEIN--Lillian Lux. The Hebrew Actors Union mourns the passing of the prominent actress. Our heartfelt condolences to her children, Mike Burstyn, Susan Roth, and their families.       
 DIMITROVA -- Ghena. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of soprano Ghena Dimitrova. She made her company debut in 1987 as Turandot, a role seemingly tailor-made for her thrilling voice, and also enjoyed success with us in such roles as Minnie in ''La Fanciulla del West,'' Santuzza in ''
 EWESON -- Dorothy Dillon died at her home in Far Hills, NJ on June 8th at the age of 92. The daughter of the late Clarence and Anne Dillon and the sister of the late C. Douglas Dillon, she is survived by her three children, Christine Allen of NY, Philip Allen of Far Hills, NJ and Douglas Al
 FEINBERG--Barbara J. on June 6, 2005, at the age of 56. Barbara was a beloved mother, sister and daughter to her family, as well as a scholar, an athlete and caring, compassionate friend to all who knew her. A woman of remarkable independence, intelligence, beauty and strength, she practice
 GILBERT--Sharon. June 9, in Brooklyn. Maker of artist books, sculptor in ceramic and paper. Wife of Vyt Bakaitis, mother of Elena Floris and Ellery Gilbert. Daughter of Sylvia, sister of Linda. She stays with us much loved, ever loving as she was.       
 HELSEL--Selma Geshwin, a resident of Aventura, Florida, passed on peacefully after a brave struggle with cancer on Saturday, June 11, 2005, at the age of 88. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Milton Helsel of Lynn, MA. Devoted mother of Eileen Swartz and Meryl and Robert Meltzer. Adored grandmot
 MANN--Patricia Paula, 82, of Vero Beach, FL, died Saturday, June 11 at VNA Hospice House after a prolonged illness. She was born January 19, 1923 in New York, New York and had been a resident of Vero Beach since 1989 coming from Garden City, N.Y. Pat graduated from Marymount College of Tarr
 MARSHALL--Karen J. Died peacefully at her home, with her view of the park and family surrounding her on June 11, 2005. Predeceased by her father Sidney Spitzer and mother Louise Spitzer. Survived by her children Claudia Gordon, Peter Marshall, Andrew Marshall and Jennifer Marshall, grandchi
 NATHAN--Ruth, June 7, 2005. Literary agent; former director, Universal Pictures New York story department. Survived by husband Paul Nathan, daughter Polly Rubin, brother Max Wilk, sister Doris Palca, stepchildren Andrew Nathan, Carl Nathan, Janet Souza, a granddaughter and eight stepgrandch
 TANNENBAUM--Dorothy Simon, on June 13. Born August 3, 1930, Brooklyn, NY. Loving wife of late Joseph. Survived by her sons Richard, Gary and Ronald, and families. Interment Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, NY 11:30AM, Wednesday, June 15. Donations requested to Doctors Without Borders.    
 Lillian Lux, the matriarch of a celebrated Yiddish theatrical family who performed for decades as an actress and singer in New York and around the world, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failur
 BARTRAM--Mary ''Teddy'' Sheppard died at her home in Hobe Sound, Florida on Monday, June 13, 2005. Formerly of Greenwich, Connecticut and Edgartown, Massa chusetts, she was born Mary Sesso Sheppard on July 21, 1908 to Josephine and William Sheppard of New Jersey. She married the late J. Bur
 DIMITROVA--Ghena. Opera Orchestra of New York notes with sorrow the death of soprano Ghena Dimitrova, who made her New York debut in Opera Orchestra's ''Nabucco'' in May, 1984. At that performance, critic Donal Henahan noted the audience ''...bellowed and stomped until the floor boards rock
 EWESON--Dorothy Dillon. The officers and Board of Directors of the American Federation for Aging Research deeply mourn the loss of its dedicated board member. We are grateful for her long standing commitment to aging research and generosity to AFAR. Diana Jacobs Kalman, Chair Stephanie Lede
 FRIEDLAND--Beatrice. June 12, 2005. Bea, a quintessential New Yorker, was a graduate of Brooklyn College and the Manhattan School of Music. With her beloved husband Bernie, Bea spent many years as an activist, committed to social and economic justice. In the 1960s, she earned a PhD in Music
 McCORMICK--Elizabeth of Staten Island on June 13, 2005. Beloved mother of Elizabeth Consoli and Daniel. Cherished grandmother to her seven grandchildren and her seven great grandchildren. Visiting will be held on Wednesday from 2-4 and 7-9PM at the John Vincent Scalia Home For Funerals Inc.
 SANDLER--Anna. June 14, 2005. Loving wife, mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Predeceased by her husband George and son Herman. Survived by children Maurice and Gloria, Paul and Maryjane, Suki, Ruth Lynn, Marlene & Albert Aiello, grandchildren Sandy, Alan and Brooke, Lori and Steve,
 SEGRE--Ann. Passed away on June 11, 2005 at the age of 93 in New York City. Writer, editor, publisher. Best friend and inspiration to all who knew her. Beloved wife of the late novelist Alfredo Segre, caring sister to the late Gertrude, Max, Mathilde, and Helen, doting aunt of Elly Weiss (L
 ARIEL--Paula. Dear friend and dedicated member, she was deeply committed to cooperative ideals; we shall miss her broad vision and guidance. Our love to Lee, Lisa and Jonathan, nieces and nephews, grandchildren and great-grandchild. Memorial service Sunday, June 19, Norman Thomas Hall. Thre
 KINGKADE--Mary Jane, 82, died May 26. Dr. Kingkade, former Chair of Chemistry, Hunter College, and Associate Dean of CUNY, administered CUNY's Baccalaureate and Overseas Study Programs. She also developed a public high school program that enabled disadvantaged students to enter and succeed 
 LOEW -- Sylvia. 83 years young of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY, died June 13, 2005. Beloved wife of Elliott. Mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, and inspiration for the rest of our family. She was the most beautiful woman and spirit and a wonderful friend who brought stren
 MOSKOWITZ--Sunny, in her 90th year, died peacefully at home. Devoted wife of the late Herbert Moskowitz. Cherished mother of Roanna Shorofsky and Miriam Ben Natan and beloved motherin-law of Morris and Rafi. Adored grandmother of Karren, Sharon and Keren and loved by Alex, Carolyn and Allan
 RATHE--Ethel, wife of the late Fred Rathe. Loving mother of Robert and Rick, mother-in-law of Adelle and Betsy. Grandmother of Gregory, Toby, Montana and Emma. Great-grandmother of Zachary and Frankie. Passed away on June 14, 2005. She was our special flower and will be missed by all. Contr
 SANDLER--Anna. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Anna Sandler, beloved mother of the late Herman Sandler and mother-in-law of Suki Sandler. Suki and her daughters, Jordana, Pamela, and Gillian set an example of philanthropic leade
 ZAREMBA -- Sylvia. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with great sorrow the passing of the American pianist Sylvia Zaremba on June 3 in Columbus, Ohio at the age of 74. A native of Chicopee, Massachusetts, Sylvia Zaremba was a valued member of our Steinway Artist family for 61 years. A chil
 Frieda Zames, a prominent advocate for the disabled who lobbied to make New York City accessible to them, died yesterday morning at her home in Manhattan. She was 72. The cause has not been determined, said Anne Emerman, a longtime friend. She said Ms. Zames had been recovering at h
 EWESON--Dorothy Dillon. Barnard College mourns its devoted alumna, Dorothy Dillon Eweson, member of the Class of 1950 and Trustee from 1958 to 1962 and again from 1965 to 1976. Mrs. Eweson generously supported the College during her lifetime, establishing funds for faculty support and devel
 KELLOGG--Barbara, 82, died June 6, 2005. She will be sadly missed by sister Trudie, brother Jim, step-sons Scott and Kevin, their families, her extended family and friends. Memorial service Monday, July 11, 2005 at 12:00 Noon, the First Presbyterian Church, Fifth Avenue at 12th Street, New 
 LOCKE--Esther S. Died on June 15, 2005, at the age of 96, in New York City. Her energy, wit, intelligence, compassion and enormous gifts and skills as a teacher and educational administrator affected the lives of thousands of people in the course of her 72-year career, and she will be misse
 MOSKOWITZ--Sunny. The Abraham Joshua Heschel School community mourns the passing of Sunny Moskowitz, beloved wife of the late Herbert Moskowitz, adored mother of Roanna Shorofsky, our esteemed Head of School, and of Miriam Ben-Natan. Sunny was the mother-in-law of Morris and Rafi, beloved g
 STAVROPOULOS--Dr. Anastasia (nee Gregoriades). 65, died on June 15, 2005, at her home in New York City. Born in Skalohori Kozanis, Greece, she received her Ph.D. from Cornell University Medical College, and in her 40-year career as a professor and virologist, performed research and taught a
 ZAREMBA -- Sylvia. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with great sorrow the passing of the American pianist Sylvia Zaremba on June 3 in Columbus, Ohio at the age of 74. A native of Chicopee, Massachusetts, Sylvia Zaremba was a valued member of our Steinway Artist family for 61 years. A chil
 ROBERTS--Gail K. Ommerle, who retired from the New York State Court Administration in 2001 after close to 20 years with the state, died at her home in New Mexico on Sunday, May 15, 2005. She was 61. Mrs. Roberts was born in NYC. She was the daughter of Harry G. Ommerle, a former CBS televis
 ROTHSTEIN--Ruth S. Ruth, previously of Scarsdale, New York, died on June 6 at her home in Palm Beach, FL. Ruth, one of the first female officers in the U.S. Air Force, was best known in her later years for her contribution as a volunteer for the American Cancer Society. Predeceased by her h
 STONBELY -- Lady Made leine Ann, L.G.C.H.S. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. and Miami, FL. Returned to the Lord on June 16, 2005. Madeleine was the devoted and beloved wife of Basil for 60 wonderful years, adoring, dedicated and cherished mother of Basil, Cynthia and Dr. Suzanne, loving Teta (grandmother
 ZAMES--Frieda. Died June 16, 2005. Devoted partner of Michael Imperiale for 34 years, beloved sister of Doris Zames Fleischer, sister-inlaw of Leonard Fleischer, adoring aunt of Joseph and Abigail Fleischer. Services Sunday, 11:45 are at ''The Riverside,'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave. A pol
 BARTRAM--Mary ''Teddy'' Sheppard died at her home in Hobe Sound, Florida on Monday, June 13, 2005. Formerly of Greenwich, Connecticut and Edgartown, Massa chusetts, she was born Mary Sesso Sheppard on July 21, 1908 to Josephine and William Sheppard of New Jersey. She married the late J. Bur
 BROFMAN -- Pearl Freed man. On June 17, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Henry Brofman for 66 years. Loving mother of Dr. Jerelyn J. Brofman and Faith Levine Block. Cherished grandmother of Debra Sue Goldberg and Heidi Beth Levine. Treasured great-grandmother of Barry Leonard Goldberg and Jan
 COHEN--Eva, on June 16, 2005. Cherished wife of the late Irving. Adored mother of Phyllis Rifas, Sharon Bahr and Doree (Robert) Levy. Most devoted grandmother of Michelle (Jeff), Elizabeth, David (Lisa), Larry, Ilana and Ariel, and great-grandmother of Jake and Jaime. Sister of Viola, Emil 
 GRUSD--Raie. Passed away peacefully June 11, 2005 age 96 in Cape Town, South Africa. Deeply mourned by her son Neville and daughterin-law Velma; grandchildren Gavin and Julie Grusd; Andi and Adam Kolodny; Ian and Edy Grusd; Cammy Grusd and Dan Zamlong; and greatgrandchildren. Prayers on Tue
 KELLOGG--Barbara, 82, died June 6, 2005. She will be sadly missed by sister Trudie, brother Jim, step-sons Scott and Kevin, their families, her extended family and friends. Memorial service Monday, July 11, 2005 at 12:00 Noon, the First Presbyterian Church, Fifth Avenue at 12th Street, New 
 LOCKE--Esther S. Died on June 15, 2005, at the age of 96, in New York City. Her energy, wit, intelligence, compassion and enormous gifts and skills as a teacher and educational administrator affected the lives of thousands of people in the course of her 72-year career, and she will be misse
 LOEW -- Sylvia. 83 years young of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY, died June 13, 2005. Beloved wife of Elliott. Mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, and inspiration for the rest of our family. She was the most beautiful woman and spirit and a wonderful friend who brought stren
 PADILLA--Elizabeth Kasulis, Esq. The Officers, Directors and Members of the Brooklyn Bar Association Volunteer Lawyers Project, Inc. mourn the untimely passing of our beloved Pro Bono Coordinator, Elizabeth Kasulis Padilla, Esq. Liz was a graduate of Cornell Law School, receiving her J.D. a
 ROBERTS--Gail K. Ommerle, who retired from the New York State Court Administration in 2001 after close to 20 years with the state, died at her home in New Mexico on Sunday, May 15, 2005. She was 61. Mrs. Roberts was born in NYC. She was the daughter of Harry G. Ommerle, a former CBS televis
 ROTHSTEIN--Ruth S. Ruth, previously of Scarsdale, New York, died on June 6 at her home in Palm Beach, FL. Ruth, one of the first female officers in the U.S. Air Force, was best known in her later years for her contribution as a volunteer for the American Cancer Society. Predeceased by her h
 SEGRE--Ann. Passed away on June 11, 2005 at the age of 93 in New York City. Writer, editor, publisher. Best friend and inspiration to all who knew her. Beloved wife of the late novelist Alfredo Segre, caring sister to the late Gertrude, Max, Mathilde, and Helen, doting aunt of Elly Weiss (L
 SELKOWE--Valrie M. passed away at age 48 on June 1 after a life long battle with diabetes. Valrie authored three children's books and was a well known and beloved children's book reader at Barnes & Noble for 14 years. A private memorial service was held on June 5. Valrie's memory will forev
 TREADWAY -- Margaret ''Peggy'' Hardwick. Died at her home in Vero Beach, FL, on June 11, 2005, after a short illness. Formerly of Marion, MA, she was born on July 14, 1916, in Brookline, the only child of the late Huntington Reed ''Tack'' Hardwick and Margaret Stone Hardwick. She was the gr
 WYCKOFF--Barbara Heafey. June 11, 2005 near Washington, DC where she lived with her husband, Edwin Brit and daughter, Dana. Born in Berkeley, CA to Edward and Margaret Murphy Heafey. Loving sister to the late ''Teddy''. Attended Holy Names College on a full scholarship; moved to New York Ci
 ZAMES--Frieda. We mourn the passing of Frieda Zames, disability rights movement leader for more than 25 years, author, teacher, mentor, friend. To her sister Doris and her partner Michael we extend deepest condolences. Board and staff of the Center for Independence of the Disabled, NY.     
 HOCHBERG--Audrey. A Memorial Service to celebrate her life Sunday, June 26th, at 2 PM at the Congregation Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Ave., White Plains, NY.       
 ARON--Jacqueline, RPN, age 64, a resident of Woodbridge, Virginia, passed away quietly following a long illness on June 17, 2005. A graduate of the St. Claire's Hospital School of Nursing, New York, Jackie received her Master's Degree in Philosophy from Fordham University in New York. She e
 BENEDICT HAWLEY--Jane. Tenant organizer and former chair of Metropolitan Council on Housing, Jane Benedict Hawley died on June 18, 2005, of pneumonia, at 93. She is survived by her son and daughter-in-law Jim Hawley and Diane Ehrensaft; her daughter Ellen Hawley and her daughter's partner I
 GOLUB -- Blanche Rosen zweig. On Saturday, June 18. Beloved wife of the late Phillip. Devoted mother of Marsha, Carolyn and Michael. Adored grandmother of Josh, Jenny, Alex, Elizabeth, Jane, Peyton, Noah and Jamie. Loving mother-in-law of Jacob, David and Nancy. Darling Aunt Bebe to her nie
 GRUSD--Raie. Passed away peacefully June 11, 2005 age 96 in Cape Town, South Africa. Deeply mourned by her son Neville and daughterin-law Velma; grandchildren Gavin and Julie Grusd; Andi and Adam Kolodny; Ian and Edy Grusd; Cammy Grusd and Dan Zamlong; and greatgrandchildren. Prayers on Tue
 LEVEY--Rita. Rita will be missed all those she touched in life. She gave of herself in friendship and philanthropy. Although never simple, she was simply the best. She loved life and forever is etched in my heart. Rest in peace, dear friend. Arline Tarte       
 ARON--Jacqueline. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Jacqueline Aron, a lifelong supporter of humanitarian causes whose directorship of the J. Aron Charitable Foundation has enabled us to profoundly impact millions of lives. The Aron 
 GRUSD--Raie. Passed away peacefully June 11, 2005 age 96 in Cape Town, South Africa. Deeply mourned by her son Neville and daughterin-law Velma; grandchildren Gavin and Julie Grusd; Andi and Adam Kolodny; Ian and Edy Grusd; Cammy Grusd and Dan Zamlong; and greatgrandchildren. Prayers on Tue
 RABI--Helen Newmark, 102, on June 18, died peacefully at her home at 450 Riverside Drive. She was the beloved wife of the late Professor Isadore Isaac Rabi, loving mother of Nancy Lichtenstein and Margaret Beels, devoted grandmother of the late Peter, and of Alice, Elizabeth, Jessica and Al
 BARTFIELD--Joyce (Zweighaft). Of Long Beach, N.Y. on June 21, 2005. Mother of Stuart and David Zweighaft. Grandmother of Josh, Sam and Matthew, sister of Seymour, mother-in-law to Susie. She will be missed by all who knew her. Mom, we love you and will remember you always. Services June 22,
 BENEDICT -- Jane. Board Members, staff and volunteers of the Metropolitan Council on Housing were deeply saddened by the death of founder and longtime chair Jane Benedict on Saturday, June 18, 2005, at the age of 93. Jane was unflagging in the fight for tenants' rights and a passionate and 
 BLOCK--Ruth. May 18, 1921-June 21, 2005. Hunter College graduate and former longtime photo editor of the New York Times Sunday Magazine. Predeceased by her parents, Robert and Bertha (Ente) Block. Survived by brother Lawrence W. Block, nephews Peter H. (Pat) and Thomas S. Block, (Ellen) nie
 DAVIDOFF--Deborah Elaine (nee Webber), age 81, died June 15, 2005, in Madison, WI. She was born on October 6, 1923, in Kansas City, Missouri, to Morris and Anna Webber. She graduated from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 1944 and moved to New York City in 1947. She married her beloved
 GOTTLIEB--Jeanette Greenberg, 86, on June 19. Predeceased by spouse Edward; sister Bea; brother Barney; niece Vivian. Mother of Joyce Gottlieb and Anne Saidman (Phil); grandmother to Matt; aunt of Rickie Leiter, Harriet Smith, Harvey Wolfgong; great-aunt of nine. We thank her dedicated phys
 RABI--Helen Newmark, 102, on June 18, died peacefully at her home at 450 Riverside Drive. She was the beloved wife of the late Professor Isadore Isaac Rabi, loving mother of Nancy Lichtenstein and Margaret Beels, devoted grandmother of the late Peter, and of Alice, Elizabeth, Jessica and Al
 WERNER -- Maribeth. 60, passed away on Tuesday, June 21, 2005 following a 25 year battle with cancer. The gallantry with which Maribeth consistently fought this disease was an inspiration to many, and the enormity of this loss cannot be expressed in words. Maribeth, daughter of Elizabeth an
 BORSUK--Ruth. A gracious refined lady, connoisseur, lover of life, friend and heroine to many. Ruth Patek Borsuk, 94, passed into memory leaving the world that embraced her. Sunday, June 19, 2005.       
 COOK--Dorothy Spaulding, of Marshfield, MA, formerly of New London, NH, and Bellport, LI, NY, died peacefully on June 20, 2005 at the age of 92. ''Marna,'' as she was known by all, was a graduate of Columbia Presbyterian Nursing School. As a registered nurse, she was the head nurse at LaSal
 KAUFMAN--Miriam. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Miriam Kaufman, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her sister-in-law Marilyn Kantor and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Marc Goldberg, President       
 KRAMER--Connie (nee Constance Silver). Widow of James Kramer, mother of Lynn and Ilene, two grandchildren and two adorable great - grandchildren. She danced and traveled the world with great joy. She succumbed to a three year bout with cancer on June 21, 2005. Memories will be shared at her
 LEVEY--Rita. Our condolences on the untimely passing of our dear friend Rita. Lionel, we're thinking of you at this difficult time. We've lost a wonderful friend. We will miss her. Reuven and Natalie Blank       
 McLENDON--Dorothy. The Board of Directors of the James Lenox House Association mourns the death of our long time board member and friend Dorothy McLendon, who passed away on June 20. Dorothy served as Treasurer for many years and was on the budget, executive, finance, and publicity committe
 VANDERBILT--Claire Frances, nee Claire Frances McKiernan, died on Sunday, June 19, at her home in Greenwich, CT. She was predeceased by her husband, Hugh B. Vanderbilt, Sr. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held at St. Michael's Church in Greenwich on June 28, 2005 at 10AM, followed immedi
 WERNER -- Maribeth. 60, passed away on Tuesday, June 21, 2005 following a 25 year battle with cancer. The gallantry with which Maribeth consistently fought this disease was an inspiration to many, and the enormity of this loss cannot be expressed in words. Maribeth, daughter of Elizabeth an
 Jane Benedict, a prominent housing advocate who was the principal founder of the Metropolitan Council on Housing, a New York City tenants' rights organization, died on Saturday in Berkeley, Calif. She was 93. A longtime resident of New York, she had lived in Oakland, Calif., for the last se
 BREWER -- Diana Burkett, previously of Wilton, CT, died at her home in Ocala, FL on June 19. She was 75. Mrs. Brewer, a graduate of Wellesley College, was formerly a reporter for the Miami Herald. An avid golfer at age 19, she was women's champion at the Westchester Country Club in Harrison
 ZOSS--Magda, 84, of Maplewood, died at her residence Wednesday June 22, 2005. Beloved wife of Dr. Abraham Zoss. Devoted mother of Diane Goldberg and Ellyn Rosenthal. Loving grandmother of two and greatmother of three. Information please call Bernheim-ApterKreitzman Suburban Funeral Chapel, 
 AMELUNG -- Marion Kent. Resident of Hightstown, NJ, formerly of Montclair, passed away June 22, 2005. Widow of Charles F. Amelung. Survived by her daughters, Karen and Christine, three grandchildren and three great grandchildren.       
 FRIEDMAN--Frances Karo. Of Lauderhill, FL, Stamford, CT, and New York, NY died June 24, 2005, at the age of 84 at her New York home following a short illness. Born in New York, Frances Federman, daughter of Ida and Benjamin Federman; survived by her adoring husband, retired prominent physic
 SAPHIR--Judy. Passed away in New York on June 24 after a long brave struggle against cancer. Beloved wife of Dr. Richard L. Saphir. Super Mom of Steven and his wife Annette. Adoring grandma of Megan and Scotty. Dear sister of Dr. James Schwartz, and loving owner of Missy. Judy was a wonderf
 Shana Alexander, a journalist and television personality best known as the liberal sparring partner of the conservative commentator James J. Kilpatrick on the television newsmagazine ''60 Minutes'' in the 1970's, died on Thursday in Hermosa Beach, Calif. She was 79 and had lived in Manhatta
 AMELUNG -- Marion Kent. Resident of Hightstown, NJ, formerly of Montclair, passed away June 22, 2005. Widow of Charles F. Amelung. Survived by her daughters, Karen and Christine, three grandchildren and three great grandchildren.       
 ARON--Jackie. The national Tourette Syndrome Association Board of Directors, its staff and all its members mourn the passing of our dear friend and true champion of all people with TS, Jacqueline Aron. Diagnosed late in life with TS, Jackie embraced the cause with abiding support for TS res
 BREWER -- Diana Burkett, previously of Wilton, CT, died at her home in Ocala, FL on June 19. She was 75. Mrs. Brewer, a graduate of Wellesley College, was formerly a reporter for the Miami Herald. An avid golfer at age 19, she was women's champion at the Westchester Country Club in Harrison
 BRIDI--Constance Matthews. 50, died peacefully at home June 12. Her strong spirituality and passion for life helped her survive 28 years of ovarian cancer with dignity, humor, and compassion. Born July 23, 1954, she was a competitive athlete in swimming, field hockey and rugby. Employed by 
 FRIEDMAN--Diana. Daughter of Rubin & Eva Friedman. Sister of Ida, Bea, Sam, Dave, Izzy, Shirley. A Music & Arts major, a Hunter College graduate, a NYC teacher. Now, restored to her family.       
 FRIEDMAN--Frances Karo. Of Lauderhill, FL, Stamford, CT, and New York, NY died June 24, 2005, at the age of 84 at her New York home following a short illness. Born in New York, Frances Federman, daughter of Ida and Benjamin Federman; survived by her adoring husband, retired prominent physic
 KRAMER--Connie (nee Constance Silver). Widow of James Kramer, mother of Lynn and Ilene, two grandchildren and two adorable great - grandchildren. She danced and traveled the world with great joy. She succumbed to a three year bout with cancer on June 21, 2005. Memories will be shared at her
 LIPSCHUTZ -- Ilse Hempel. Died peacefully on June 22, 2005 at home in Poughkeepsie, NY. For her husband Lewis and her family, she was the best wife, mother, grandmother, sister and aunt they could have had. She is remembered as an outstanding Art Historian, French Professor at Vassar Colleg
 LLOYD--Maureen B. 62, an officer of the Charles A. and Anne Morrow Lindbergh Foundation, passed away on June 22, in Norwalk, CT. Mrs. Lloyd worked for the law firm of Davis Polk and Wardwell for approximately 40 years and retired in 2001. Mrs. Lloyd was born in NYC, and was the daughter of 
 PLISKIN--Bertha. Age 98, died June 24, 2005 in Ormond Beach, FL. Predeceased by her devoted husband David of 69 years on October 2, 2001. She is the beloved mother of her son, Thomas Pliskin, Shrewsbury, NJ; daughter and son-in-law, Susan and Jonathan Kopald, Fort Montgomery, NY; and grandd
 ROSSINI--Midge Bodine. Mrs. Giancarlo ''Midge'' Bodine Rossini nee Bain, June 20, 2005, Chicago. Born October 21, 1923, Wife, mother, artist, hotelier (Oyster Pond Yacht Club, Sint Maarten; Captain's Quarters, Saba; The Habersham at York Inn, Savannah) Member Art Students League; Amatuer Co
 SAPHIR--Judy. Passed away in New York on June 24 after a long brave struggle against cancer. Beloved wife of Dr. Richard L. Saphir. Super Mom of Steven and his wife Annette. Adoring grandma of Megan and Scotty. Dear sister of Dr. James Schwartz, and loving owner of Missy. Judy was a wonderf
 SHERRERD -- Kathleen Compton. Of Bryn Mawr, PA, died in her home on Thursday, June 23, 2005 at the age of 72. She is survived by her husband of forty-nine years, John J.F. Sherrerd; her children, Anne C. Sherrerd of Riverside, CT, Jay F. Sherrerd of Hood River, OR, and Susan M. Sherrerd of 
 VANDERBILT--Claire Frances, nee Claire Frances McKiernan, died on Sunday, June 19, at her home in Greenwich, CT. She was predeceased by her husband, Hugh B. Vanderbilt, Sr. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held at St. Michael's Church in Greenwich on June 28, 2005 at 10AM, followed immedi
 Vera Komarkova, a botanist and mountain climber who was among the first women to scale some of the world's highest peaks, died on May 25 in her home in Leysin, Switzerland. She was 62. The cause was complications of breast cancer, her family said. In the fall of 1978 the Ame
 AHRENS--Joyce Nolan, Of Indian River Shores, Florida, died June 25, 2005 at Indian River Memorial Hospital, Vero Beach, Florida. Mrs. Ahrens was born in Brooklyn, New York in July 1925. She attended St. Francis Xavier's Academy and received her Bachelor's Degree from Notre Dame College and 
 BREININ--Rose-Helen, 77, of New York City, died June 25. Beloved wife for 58 years of Dr. Goodwin Breinin. Loving mother of Bartley Breinin & Constance Paton. Devoted mother-in-law of Rachel Breinin and Nigel Paton. Adored grandmother of Alexander, Sarah, Caroline and Emma. Art historian an
 ERDMAN--Barbara Claudia Mason. Of Greenwich, CT, passed away Friday, June 24, at New York Presbyterian Hospital, at age 57. She was born in Hammond, IN, and graduated from Purdue University with a B.A. in English literature. She flew for TWA from 1972 to 1986, and was a realtor with Sotheby
 GIDDINGS--Moira B., 95, on June 24, 2005 in Haverford, PA. Wife of John Musser Pearce (died 1960) and Silas M.R. Giddings (died 1988). A woman of great spirit and great beauty who will be greatly missed. A memorial service will be held by her loving family in Dorset, VT.       
 GLADSTONE -- Dorothy Bruckner. Age 82. Passed on peacefully June 27th, 2005. Loving mother of Lynn Weisman and the late Andrew Gladstone. Mother-in-law of Leonard and Marta. Devoted Grandmother to Samantha, Jacob, Mateo, Violeta, Vicki, Mark, Laurie and Roz. Great Dorothy to Charlotte, Nata
 GOLDSTEIN--Birdie. Beloved and loving mother of Dolores and the late Harold Yassky, and Edward and Sheryle Goldstein. Adored and cherished grandmother of Charles, Marc, Joyce and the late Robert Yassky, Susan and Eric Kipperman, Shelley and Joseph Hammell, Todd and Karen Goldstein, Jamie an
 HENDLER--Ethel B. Ethel loved people, life and most of all her family. She was married 64 years to her devoted husband, Hy, who passed away November 2004. She is survived by her brother, Seymour, sons, Fred and Donald, daughters-in-law Nancy and Adrienne, grandchildren, Ian and his wife Deb
 LEVISON--Isabelle C. A resident of Florida, died June 25, 2005. A native of Norfolk, Virginia, she also resided in New York City and Detroit, Michigan. She was a founder at Mount Sinai Medical Center and Miami Jewish Home for the Aged, and a patron of the arts. Survived by her children Sall
 RYAN--Dorothy Devereaux. Devoted wife of the late William Henry Ryan. Mother of the late George Devereaux Ryan. Survived by her loving daughter, Betsy Ryan, of 150 East 72nd Street, and her beloved friend Betty Seeler, of Forest Hills. Also survived by her dear sister-in-law, Mrs. Joseph C.
 SCHONDORF--Elaine (nee Meyerson). Died June 25, at the age of 80. Married to the late William. Sister of Lee Meyers. Adoring mother of Jeffrey and Nancy, Beth and Kevin. Beloved grandmother of Zachary, Renee, Sophie, Jason and Daylyn. Our hearts will have a void forever. Services Tuesday, J
 BREININ--Rose-Helen, 77, of New York City, died June 25. Beloved wife for 58 years of Dr. Goodwin Breinin. Loving mother of Bartley Breinin & Constance Paton. Devoted mother-in-law of Rachel Breinin and Nigel Paton. Adored grandmother of Alexander, Sarah, Caroline and Emma. Art historian an
 LEVISON--Isabelle C. A resident of Florida, died June 25, 2005. A native of Norfolk, Virginia, she also resided in New York City and Detroit, Michigan. She was a founder at Mount Sinai Medical Center and Miami Jewish Home for the Aged, and a patron of the arts. Survived by her children Sall
 FITZSIMONS -- Kimberly Anne, suddenly on June 28, 2005. Beloved daughter of Richard and Kathleen FitzSimons of Fairfield, CT and very much loved sister of Ryan of Manchester, NH. Also survived by many aunts, uncles and cousins. Kim attended Greens Farms Academy in Greens Farms, CT and Georg
 KING--Helene F., June 28, 2005. Wife of the late Richard M. King. Mother of Nancy Bernstein and Betsy Militello. Mother-in-law of Bob Bernstein and Sam Militello. Grandmother of Daniel and Matthew Bernstein. Aunt of Susan Neitzke, David Feltman and Edward Feltman. She will be deeply missed 
 LEVISON--Isabelle C. A resident of Florida, died June 25, 2005. A native of Norfolk, Virginia, she also resided in New York City and Detroit, Michigan. She was a founder at Mount Sinai Medical Center and Miami Jewish Home for the Aged, and a patron of the arts. Survived by her children Sall
 SOKOL--Irene M., of New York City, formerly of Morristown, New Jersey, died quietly on June 28, at SloanKettering Hospital. Loving sister of Helen Lefko and Florentine; dear aunt of Lauren, Janet and Frank; grandaunt of Lindsey, Jeffrey, Christopher and Charles. A graduate of Hunter College
