 MALONE--Kathleen, on February 28, 2005. Beloved aunt of Patricia Malone Powell, Michael Malone, Timothy Malone and John Malone. Also survived by nine greatnieces and nephews. Former Executive Secretary for Time Life Inc., McCall's and Dyson - Kissner. Visitation Wednesday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, a
 MOORE--Elaine Pohl. Friend and client for many years, her wisdom, intelligence, charity and concern for others offered a unique contribution for good which she exercised with her usual vitality. We will miss her stimulating personality as well as business interactions. Sincere condolences t
 NASSOF--Muriel L., on February 26, 2005, of Fort Lee, NJ. Beloved wife of Martin. Devoted mother of Stephen and Russell. Dear sister of Herbert and Joseph Leifer. Loving grandmother of Jeffrey, Erica, Jason and Sara. Earned her law degree (LLB) from New York University, Class of 1947. Servi
 SAGIK--Florence Juanita ''Nita''. Worcester, NY. 79, passed away peacefully at home on February 24, 2005. She was predeceased by her husband Dr. Bernard Phillip Sagik. Survivors are four children, Tamara and Stephen Sagik, Debra and Paul Banks; five grandchildren; one great-grandson; severa
 SHAPIRO--Pauline. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a cherished, long-time friend who, with her beloved husband, the late Louis Shapiro, was a YU Guardian who gave major support to Yeshiva University. Among their many contributions were the establishment of a large Reading
 SHUKAT--Florence. On February 25, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Harry for 70 years. Devoted mother, and loving grandmother and greatgrandmother. She died of a broken heart and is now with her beloved Harry. She will be missed by all.       
 BLUEWEISS--Phyllis Ruth. A 50 year resident of Long Island died peacefully on February 26, 2005. Born in Brooklyn, NY on June 22, 1924, the eldest of three daughters of Benjamin and Marion Schwartz. An adventurous teenager and accomplished pianist she traveled from Crown Heights to Upper Ma
 CLAYTON - GREENE -- Caro lyn (Lincoln), 87, of Greenwich, CT died surrounded by family February 25, 2005. She is survived by her husband, George Clayton-Greene, five children, eight grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Funeral Service will be held Saturday March 5, 11:00 A.M. in the R
 GUBELMANN--Barton Green. Died in Palm Beach on Saturday, February 26, 2005. Born on the memorable date of December 12, 1916, she becaue unforgettable to all who knew her. Raised as an only child in Jacksonville, Florida, she had a life-long love of the ocean. A passionate shell-collector, s
 HOLLAND--Geraldine Mary on February 28, 2005 of Garden City, NY and Breezy Point, after a long battle with ovarian cancer. Cherished wife of Michael J. Holland. Adored mother of Mark, Caroline, Christopher and Alexandra. Beloved sister of Kathleen & Denise Leonard. Also survived by numerous
 JORDAN--Cheryl Faithe, age 57, a flight attendant, died January 4, 2005 of breast cancer. She graduated from CCNY in 1969 where she made Dean's list and became the first black cheerleader, then cheerleader captain for the basketball team. She earned a Master's degree in French from Columbia
 MALONE--Kathleen, on February 28, 2005. Beloved aunt of Patricia Malone Powell, Michael Malone, Timothy Malone and John Malone. Also survived by nine greatnieces and nephews. Former Executive Secretary for Time Life Inc., McCall's and Dyson - Kissner. Visitation Wednesday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, a
 MONTGOMERY -- Gratia ''Topsy'', of Round Hill in South Dartmouth, MA, died Sunday, February 20, 2005 at her home. She was 77 years old. Topsy was known for her boundless enthusiasm and generosity, which she spread over a vast array of charitable organizations which included Southeastern Mas
 SUSSMAN--Gladys. Beloved wife of the late George, devoted mother of Judith Roberts and Jeffrey, motherin-law of Susan and the late Robert Roberts, cherished sister of Rosalind Scarlet, grandmother of Doug, Steve, Meg, Kate and Jake and great-grandmother of nine. We will miss her energy, str
 WALKER--Regina Ricca. Of Somerset, MA, on February 26, 2005. Wife of the late Graham Walker. Mother and mother-in-law of Pamela and George McNamara, grandmother of Casey and Timothy McNamara. She was the sister of the late Hugo, Louis and Edward Ricca. A lifelong New Yorker, she worked in f
 WEIL--Hanona. On February 28 in her 94th year. Daughter of the late Leopold and Ethel Weil. She is survived by her devoted friend LLoyd Lubin, her cousins Lisa Haut and Lynne Byington, and Leon J. Weil. Funeral private.       
 BERGER--Sylvia Josephs. Sept. 30, 1902--March 2, 2002 A woman of extraordinary intelligence and taste: character and grace. She had a lifelong passion for languages, learning, the arts and travel. With all her varied interests-her family always came first. We who knew you well--miss your co
 ADAMS--Ruth S. With great sadness and a deep sense of loss, the American Academy mourns the death of Ruth Salzman Adams, former editor of the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists and a Fellow of the Academy since 1985. Throughout her life, Ruth worked for the cause of peace and international coope
 GUBELMANN--Barton Green. Died in Palm Beach on Saturday, February 26, 2005. Born on the memorable date of December 14, 1916, she becaue unforgettable to all who knew her. Raised as an only child in Jacksonville, Florida, she had a life-long love of the ocean. A passionate shell-collector, s
 LEE--Carolyn B., on February 28, 2005, at the age of 89. Beloved wife of Burt. Devoted mother of Arthur (Nancy) Lee, and grandmother of Alex (Sari) Lee and Kate Lee. Sister of Ethel and the late Sylvia, Belle and Sidney. Graveside funeral 11:30 AM, March 3, Union Fields Cemetery. Donations 
 MARKS -- Elaine Miller. Elaine was born in the Bronx in 1926, the daughter of Sig and Dora Miller. She attended Taft High School and New York University. Was a member of Phi Sigma Sigma sorority. Her maternal grandfather, Eli Miller, founded Savoy Watch Company. Her uncle, Elliot, was presi
 NORWICK--Therese Thoisy. Born January 10, 1918, died February 20, 2005. Adored wife of 65 years, beloved of many. During World War II she worked for the War Dept. and as a speaker for the Voice of America. Later as one of a two-person team, she helped establish the French presence in Americ
 Former Representative Tillie Fowler, who despite being the most powerful woman in Congress did not run for re-election in 2000 to keep a promise to serve only four terms, died yesterday in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 62. She had suffered a brain hemorrhage two days earlier, a family 
 ASHER--Sylvia (Sakalsky), on March 3rd. Beloved wife of the late Leonard, devoted sister of George Sakalsky, mother of Jeffrey, Bonnie and Sandford. Bubby will be greatly missed by her grandchildren, Keith, Jenny, David, Heather, Daniel, Alexis, Rebecca and great-grandchildren, Landin, Eloi
 GUBELMANN--Barton Green. Died in Palm Beach on Saturday, February 26, 2005. Born on the memorable date of December 14, 1916, she becaue unforgettable to all who knew her. Raised as an only child in Jacksonville, Florida, she had a life-long love of the ocean. A passionate shell-collector, s
 LITTMAN--Vivian. Died on March 3, 2005. Beloved wife of Franklin. Devoted mother of Louis and Barry Moskowitz. Cherished grandmother of Ellen, Jessica, Lindsey, Julia, Laura and Peter. Dear sister of Adele and Linda. Graveside services Friday, 11am at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY.       
 LYNK--Marguerite Therese, passed away on February 23, 2005. Services will be held at 10:00 AM, March 5, Saint James Presbyterian Church, 409 West 141st St, Manhattan. She is survived by her sister and brother-and-law, Patria Lynk Swann and Peter Swann; her brother and sister-in-law, Myles V
 MARKS--Elaine, (nee Miller), July 17, 1925--March 2, 2005 Passed peacefully from complications of lukemia at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center. An only child full of love and zest for New York City, You have left us with the gift of bravery and courage. Donations to Memorial Sloan-Ke
 NORWICK--Therese Thoisy. Born January 10, 1918, died February 20, 2005. Adored wife of 65 years, beloved of many. During World War II she worked for the War Dept. and as a speaker for the Voice of America. Later as one of a two-person team, she helped establish the French presence in Americ
 SOMMERFIELD--Sally Levine. Surrounded by her adoring family, passed away on March 1 at New Bedford Health Center, New Bedford, Massachusetts. Beloved and cherished wife of George for 59 years, adored and devoted mother of Michael J. and the late Andrew N., sister of the late Miles Levine. B
 Elsa H. Zion, a city official and former publishing executive who campaigned successfully to regulate the workload of interns and residents in New York State's hospitals after the highly publicized death of her daughter, Libby, in 1984, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. 
 Isabelle Goldenson, who worked for people with disabilities, including her oldest daughter, as a founder of United Cerebral Palsy, died on Feb. 21 at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 84. Her death was announced by her family. People with disabilities were often separated f
 BROSNAN -- Irene Frances McKenna. Born on October 30, 1921 in Elmhurst, NY, and died on Friday, February 25, 2005 in Portland, OR. Irene was married on September 8, 1949 to Robert Emmet Brosnan. Irene and Robert lived on Long Island, in Great Neck and Port Washington where her children Robe
 HARRIS--Helen, 91, March 4th, 2005 in Teaneck, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Sister of the late Dr. Leonard Harris and Mildred Hillson. Aunt of Jean Ellis and the late Louise Werlin. Cousin of Vilma Levine, Edward Levine, Dr. Charles Harris and Vida Brender. She was a respected and well lov
 MYERS--Marion Parker, after a long illness died March 3, 2005 at the U Conn Medical Center in Farmington, CT. A resident of Pomperaug Woods, Southbury, CT. She was the beloved wife of Rem V. Myers whom she married 61 years ago, after they had met in the Gilbert & Sullivan Blue Hill Troupe. 
 NORWICK--Therese Thoisy. Born January 10, 1918, died February 20, 2005. Adored wife of 65 years, beloved of many. During World War II she worked for the War Dept. and as a speaker for the Voice of America. Later as one of a two-person team, she helped establish the French presence in Americ
 BENFORADO--Sally Bowen. Born August 12, 1924 in Syracuse, died March 2, 2005 at her Madison, WI home. In 1948 after graduation from Syracuse University, she married Dr. Joseph Benforado with whom she had six children. A writer and teacher, her most recent publication is ''Bring Me More Stor
 CHISOLM--Barbara Bowen Of Asheville, NC, died on March 1, 2005 from endometrial cancer. In Asheville, Barbara had been President of the Asheville Symphony Guild and a Board Director of the Asheville Symphony, among many other activities. Previously, Barbara lived in Greenwich, CT, where she
 EWIG -- Thelma. Devoted aunt, mentor and friend passed away February 8, 2005, at age 89, and is survived by her niece Laura, nephew Russell, sister-in-law Lillian and longtime friend and associate Anita O'Gara. Born in Vienna, Austria, in 1915, she was the only woman to graduate from NYU La
 KEEFE--Virginia Tomlinson ''Subie''. 86 years old, died on February 25th in Southampton, NY. Beloved and devoted mother and grandmother, she is survived by daughters Natalie Stokes Graboski and Eliza Stokes Vincelette, grandchildren Diane, Jennifer, Carol, Theodore, Chad and Kurt, and great
 McCASLIN--Nellie. February 28, age 90. The NYU Steinhardt School of Education and the Program in Educational Theatre deeply mourn the loss of Nellie McCaslin, internationally renowned pioneer in creative drama and theatre for young audiences, author, actress and Greenwich Village icon. She 
 McLEOD--Veronica. City and Country School mourns the passing of beloved teacher Veronica ''Roni'' McLeod on Saturday, February 26, 2005. Roni's love and respect for children, her unconditional appreciation of their artistic abilities, and her own vibrant style of teaching, leaves an indelib
 NORWICK--Therese Thoisy. Born January 10, 1918, died February 20, 2005. Adored wife of 65 years, beloved of many. During World War II she worked for the War Dept. and as a speaker for the Voice of America. Later as one of a two-person team, she helped establish the French presence in Americ
 O'CONNOR -- Marcella Ber nadette (Hogan). 85, died of pulmonary fibrosis at Winter Haven Hospital, Winter Haven, FL Tuesday, March 1, 2005. She was born to Martin and Marcella (Mullins) Hogan in NYC November 16, 1919 and graduated with the first class of Queens College of the City of New Yo
 ROTH--Annette. Died March 4, 2005. Beloved wife of Irwin, cherished mother of Marilyn, Ilene and Sharon, devoted sister of Gloria and Bernice, adored grandmother of Joshua, Lauren and Naomi, loving mother-in-law to Michael and Stephen and brother-in-law of David, beloved aunt of Diane, Susa
 SOMMERFIELD--Sally Levine. Surrounded by her adoring family, passed away on March 1 at New Bedford Health Center, New Bedford, Massachusetts. Beloved and cherished wife of George for 59 years, adored and devoted mother of Michael J. and the late Andrew N., sister of the late Miles Levine. B
 TEPFER--Naomi Flax. Age 102. Wife of the late Professor John J. Tepfer, mother of Ruth Watkins and Nina Bakstansky and the last of her 13 brothers and sisters. Service at the Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue at West 90th Street, NYC, on Monday, March 7, at 1 PM.       
 FINBERG -- Barbara. Her values and inspiration continue at Carnegie Corporation where she worked for 38 years. She shaped the corporation's early childhood education program establishing a field of research and practice that set the nation's agenda for young children. Sesame Street would no
 GOLDENSON--Isabelle. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Isabelle Goldenson. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres Herbert C.
 KRESCH--Rebecca M. Pugh Died on February 25, 2005 at New York State Veterans' Home in Montrose, NY. A Memorial Service will be held at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, 619 Lexington Ave, NYC, on April 23, 2005 at 2:00 PM. Mrs. Kresch, a naval communications officer during World War II was a pub
 TEPFER--Naomi Flax. Age 102. Wife of the late Professor John J. Tepfer, mother of Ruth Watkins and Nina Bakstansky and the last of her 13 brothers and sisters. Service at the Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue at West 90th Street, NYC, on Monday, March 7, at 1 PM.       
 WINSTON--Zena 7 March, her 70th birthday ''...ne'er forgot will be.'       
 Barbara D. Finberg, whose management of the Carnegie Corporation of New York helped introduce educational programs for early childhood, including television shows like ''Sesame Street,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 76. Ms. Finberg, who had breast cancer, died 
 DRESSLER--Dr. Hilda Ratner. Born October 22, 1911. Died March 6, 2005. Graduate of New York University and Boston University School of Medicine '34. Dr. Ratner was the consummate professional dedicated to her patients and colleagues. She belonged to I.P.R.O., NYS Medical Society and Queens 
 FINBERG--Barbara D. A national figure in the non-profit world, an authority on children's needs, serving at the prestigious Carnegie Corporation, for some thirty-eight years, beginning as a program officer, later to become Executive Vice President. From that base, she became nationally resp
 GAYLORD -- Virginia. Sep tember 27, 1927--March 5, 2005. Her many friends mourn the loss of a beautiful woman, an indomitable spirit whose zest and wit and humor gave each of us so much joy. With deepest sympathy to the family, her daughter Leslie, and her son Mark. Our pal Gina, gone too s
 GELB--Noemi B., 68, of Mashpee, MA. died Monday, March 7, 2005. Generous and loving to the end, she was the adored wife of Allen, sister of Evelyn Isaacson, mother of Bruce and Dana, mother-inlaw of Alan Safran and Lisa Belkin and devoted grandmother of Evan, Alison, Alexander, Michael and 
 GERRITSE--Ann, on March 6th, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Joseph J. Dear sister, cousin, and friend. She will be forever in our hearts.       
 GOLDENSON--Isabelle. The Board and staff of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with great sorrow the passing of our founder and benefactor, Isabelle Goldenson. Isabelle and her late husband, Leonard H. Goldenson, together with Ethel and Jack Hausman, Irving Sloan and other parents,
 HULKA--Helen. Died Friday, March 4, 2005 in her sleep. Funeral services will be held at St. John The Martyr, 72 Street, NY, 10AM. Burial Calvary Cemetery, Queens, NY.       
 KAPLAN--Roslyn, survived by her sons, Robert and Jeffrey, her brother, Stanley and a grandson. Funeral services were held. Donations in her memory to Haven Hospice, P.O. Box 3059, Edison, New Jersey 08818-3059.       
 MARKE--Sylvia B. Beloved wife and best friend of the late Professor Julius J. Marke. Adoring mother of Elisa Marke Smiley, devoted mother-in-law to Larry Smiley. Loving and proud Gaggy to Morgan and Eric Smiley. She was very special and was deeply loved. Service at Nassau North Chapel, Grea
 PIERCE -- Elizabeth Neall Gay. 97, peacefully at home. Predeceased by her husband of 74 years, William Curtis Pierce and two sons, William C. Jr. and Martin Gay Pierce. She is survived by son Josiah Pierce, daughter Elizabeth Stout Fuchs, Mackin Pulsifer, seven grandchildren and seven great
 RATNER--Hilda, MD. The members of the Medical Society of the County of Queens express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved colleague and dear friend Hilda Ratner, MD on March 6, 2005. A distinguished and dedicated physician she served The Society well for 68 years as Preside
 TAYLOR -- Deborah. The Board of Directors of Women At Risk mourns the loss of Deborah Taylor, beloved friend and Board member. Supportive of our efforts in countless ways, Mrs. Taylor served on the Board from its inception in 1991. Most heartfelt condolences to her family from all of us.   
 TYSON--Patricia Hale, of N.Y. City and Portland, ME, wife of Dr. C.J. Tyson, Jr., died March 6th, 2005. Graduate of Wayneflete and Madeira Schools and Barnard College, former President of the Women's Auxiliary of Presbyterian Hospital, member of the Cosmopolitan Club. Survived by her husban
 WAX--Ethel Oshinsky-Sweetie-we are broken hearted. Our mother passed away in peace at home March 7th. She will be reunited with our father, her ''Darling David'', her parents, Sarah and I.M. Oshinsky, her brothers Herbert, Elliot, and Alfred, all of whom cherished and adored her. Sweetie le
 WRIGHT--Teresa. The Board of Directors and staff of The ALS Association (Lou Gehrig's Disease) Greater New York Chapter cherishes the memory of Teresa Wright, a caring, spirited and noble woman, who contributed so much to our organization in the last years of her life. We extend our heartfe
 Teresa Wright, the high-minded ingénue who marshaled intelligence and spunk to avoid being typecast as another 1940's ''sweater girl'' and became the only actor to be nominated for Academy Awards for her first three films, died on Sunday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 86. The 
 Col. Mary A. Hallaren, who led the Women's Army Corps into the ranks of the regular military in 1948, died on Feb. 13 in McLean, Va. She was 97. Her death was announced by the Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y., which made her a member in 1996. Colonel Hallaren comma
 BOWEN -- Jeanne M. On March 5, 2005 at age 84 after complications from open heart surgery. She had lived for many years with her late husband, Stephen, in Greenwich, CT where she was a wonderful mother and a successful real estate broker. They had retired together in 1972 to live in Sharon,
 FEIST--Kathe. Todd Haimes, the Board of Directors and staff of the Roundabout Theatre Company deeply mourn the passing of our cofounder, Kathe Feist. A talented actress, adoring mother, loving wife, and wonderful friend. She will be greatly missed by all whose lives she touched.       
 GAYLORD -- Virginia. Sep tember 27, 1927--March 5, 2005. Her many friends mourn the loss of a beautiful woman, an indomitable spirit whose zest and wit and humor gave each of us so much joy. With deepest sympathy to the family, her daughter Leslie, and her son Mark. Our pal Gina, gone too s
 GENET--Eileen. With profound sadness, we mourn Eileen's death. We will always remember her for her beauty, grace and goodness. Her courage and optimism during her long battle with ovarian cancer and Leon's long illness and recent death were remarkable. Our deepest sympathy to her wonderful 
 GOLDENBERG--Bebe. We join in sorrow with our Executive Director of Sales--West Side, Michael Goldenberg, on the loss of his beloved mother, Bebe Goldenberg. Mrs. Goldenberg, loving wife of the late Joseph, died in Florida on Monday evening March 7th, 2005, following a valiant struggle. She 
 GORDON--Alice, 85, of Forest Hills, NY, on March 7, 2005. Loving wife of the late Arthur Gordon, mother of Eric M. Gordon, of Palo Alto, and Nancy R. Gordon, of Anchorage. Proud grandmother of Jacob A. Gordon, of Los Angeles, and Kerin A. Gordon, of Boston, and eldest sister of Edith Jaffe,
 KARPF--Winifred. Beloved mother of Judy DeCanio, Steven and Debbie Karpf, grandmother of Michael, Jeffrey, Allison, Lisa and Adam. After a successful 35 year career as an interior designer she founded Treadwell Pet Products and became known as ''The Musher's Lady.'' Mom, we love you. Send o
 KATZ--Rosalie. On March 7, 2005 at age 62. Our mother was and always will be our rock and our anchor. She filled our lives with love and laughter. She embodied the highest standards of compassion, generosity, and integrity. Her courage, wisdom, and insight will continue to guide our lives a
 PAINE--Ellen (Sis) Lea, 93, died peacefully at home in Hobe Sound, FL on March 3rd after a brief illness. She was recently predeceased by her husband of 71 years, Peter S. Paine. The Paines also maintained a seasonal residence in Willsboro, NY on Lake Champlain and, at one time, a town hous
 SOBELL--Claudia J. Peacefully passed on to her parents, Otto and Etta, on March 5th.       
 SWINT--Ann Brede, on March 8, 2005, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of Samuel H. Swint, Jr. of Southampton, NY and her devoted daughter Amy H. Swint of Charleston, SC. A wake will be held on Friday, March 11, 2005 from 6:30 to 8:30 PM at the Brockett Funeral Home, 203 Hampton Road, Sout
 TYSON--Patricia Hale, of N.Y. City and Portland, ME, wife of Dr. C.J. Tyson, Jr., died March 6th, 2005. Graduate of Wayneflete and Madeira Schools and Barnard College, former President of the Women's Auxiliary of Presbyterian Hospital, member of the Cosmopolitan Club. Survived by her husban
 Sara Stein, an influential advocate for gardening with native plants, died Feb. 25 at her home in Vinalhaven, Me. She was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Martin Stein. In ''Noah's Garden: Restoring the Ecology of Our Own Backyards'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1993),
 ADLMAN--Gerry. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member Gerry Adlman and extend sincere condolences to her family. Charles J. Block, President       
 BARRACK--Ilene. On March 9, 2005. Beloved wife of Robert. Devoted mother of Rachel and Juliet. Cherished daughter of Murray and Elayne Siegelman. Dearest sister of Miriam Miller and Louis Siegelman. Loving aunt and friend to so many. Services Thursday, 11AM at ''Riverside - Nassau North Cha
 FEINBERG--Belle. Peacefully on March 8 at the age of 93. Devoted wife of sixty years of the late Philip L. Feinberg. Loving mother and motherin-law of Dr. Daniel and Amy Feinberg and David and Nina Feinberg. Adoring grandmother of Jonathan, Erin and Joshua Feinberg, and Hillary Meltz. Enrap
 FINBERG--Barbara D. The Stanford University community mourns the passing of Barbara D. Finberg, whose love for Stanford and contributions to university life knew no bounds. Her formal service as a philanthropist, trustee and member of countless advisory committees was matched by her informa
 KATZ--Rosalie. On March 7, 2005 at age 62. Our mother was and always will be our rock and our anchor. She filled our lives with love and laughter. She embodied the highest standards of compassion, generosity, and integrity. Her courage, wisdom, and insight will continue to guide our lives a
 LEVIEN -- Janice (Currick). Passed away peacefully on Saturday, March 5th in her home in Palm Beach, FL at age 96. She was the widow of the late Francis S. Levien and is survived by her daughther and son-in-law Lorna and Robert Lubash, a grandson Kenneth (Lubash) and a granddaughter Cathy (
 OLEET--Mildred. Of Mount Vernon, NY, age 82, passed away Wednesday March 9, 2005. Widow of Harold K. Oleet, survived by her devoted children, Ronald and Eileen Oleet, of Hartsdale, NY, Nancy and Albert Meckel, of Stamford, CT, and Karen Oleet, of Miami Beach, FL., and grandchildren, Jason, 
 SCHWARTZ -- Sylvia. Artist and educator, who during World War II began her career as an illustrator for Vogue Magazine and drew portraits of soldiers and sailors at the Stagedoor Canteen, inspired thousands of students, ages 6-96. She was district coordinator of art for Lawrence Public Scho
 SUSSMAN--Estelle, adoring mother of the late Ira and cherished mother-in-law to Ronna. Dear sister of Irving Grayson. Beloved grandmother to Joanne Stone and Fred Ehrlich, David & Audry Eppner, Amy and Neil Katz, Allison and Bobby Bauer and Jeremy and Becky Sussman. The best GiGi to Jason a
 SWINT--Ann Brede, on March 8, 2005, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of Samuel H. Swint, Jr. of Southampton, NY and her devoted daughter Amy H. Swint of Charleston, SC. A wake will be held on Friday, March 11, 2005 from 6:30 to 8:30 PM at the Brockett Funeral Home, 203 Hampton Road, Sout
 TAFFEL--Mildred (Gottlieb). On March 1, 2005. Devoted wife of the late Alexander. Loving sister of Eugene and Richard. Favorite aunt of her many nieces and nephews. No services are planned.       
 WOLF--Lydia Brewster Hubbard. Of Cornwall, CT, died March 8th, 2005, aged 92, at Sharon (CT) Hospital (where she was born in 1913). Survived by a son, Thomas Gordon Wolf, a grandson Stefan Wolf, both of Cornwall, three brothers, William of Wilmington, Gordon of Tuscon and Thomas of Bronxvil
 Trude Rittmann, a choral and dance-music arranger for Broadway favorites from ''Carousel'' in 1945 to a ''Sound of Music'' revival half a century later, died on Feb. 22 in Lexington, Mass. She was 96 and had been living in Waltham, Mass., in retirement. The death was announced by th
 BALLENTINE--Dorothy Favini, passed away at the Brooklyn United Methodist Church Home on March 7, 2005. She worked as a market analyst at Young & Rubicam for many years. Burial took place at the family plot in the Laurelwood Cemetery, Stroudsburg, PA, on March 10, 2005. For information conta
 BARBER--Sarah Lanier, 67, educator and social activist, Wednesday at her Santa Fe home. She worked at LOOK, taught in Harlem, and LaGuardia Community College immigrants. Volunteered at Santa Fe Animal Shelter and founded the Lesbian & Gay Partnership at Santa Fe Community Foundation, with a
 DeSHAYES -- Agnes, of Brooklyn, NY and Vandre, France, passed March 8 in La Rochelle, France. The team of Jean-Georges Restaurant Group mourn the passing of our dear friend and colleague. Her spirit and passion for life and humanity lives within us all.       
 FLEMING -- Shirley. New York City Opera joins the entire classical music world in mourning the passing of our colleague and very dear friend, Shirley Fleming. As a longtime writer, critic, and the editor of Musical America, she has been a respected member of our community for over 25 years.
 FLYER--Diana, 94, has joined her beloved husband, the late Joseph Paul Flyer. Devoted mother of Dennis, Gary and Ronald and mother-in-law of Susan and Susie. Loving grandmother of Vanessa, Jamie, Michael and Caroline. Dear sister of Francine and the late Sophie, Anne and Daniel. Loving daug
 LEVIEN -- Janice (Currick). Passed away peacefully on Saturday, March 5th in her home in Palm Beach, FL at age 96. She was the widow of the late Francis S. Levien and is survived by her daughther and son-in-law Lorna and Robert Lubash, a grandson Kenneth (Lubash) and a granddaughter Cathy (
 LOWENSTEIN -- Katherine (nee Goldsmith) on March 10, 2005 at her home in New York City at the age of 103. She was predeceased by her husband Melvyn, a long-time member of the New York Bar to whom she had been married in 1925. She is survived by her sons James, Hugh and Peter; her sister Ber
 NEWMAN--Anne Margulies. Died peacefully at home in West Palm Beach March 6, 2005, at age 91. Beloved wife of 56 years of the late Dr. Herbert Newman. Devoted mother of Robert, Donald and Carol, cherished motherin-law of Vivien, and loving friend of long-term caregiver Delores Waite. A child
 OLEET--Mildred. Of Mount Vernon, NY, age 82, passed away Wednesday March 9, 2005. Widow of Harold K. Oleet, survived by her devoted children, Ronald and Eileen Oleet, of Hartsdale, NY, Nancy and Albert Meckel, of Stamford, CT, and Karen Oleet, of Miami Beach, FL., and grandchildren, Jason, 
 SWINT--Ann. The Board and Administration of Southampton Hospital and the Southampton Hospital Foundation mourn the passing of Ann Swint, whose affection, kindness and generosity have forever left a lasting imprint. Much beloved for her dedication and integrity, she shall be dearly missed. W
 Alice Thomas Ellis, a British novelist celebrated for her witty, unflinching dissections of middle-class domestic life, died on Tuesday in London. She was 72 and lived in Wales. A spokeswoman for Ms. Ellis's literary agent, Robert Kirby, confirmed the death. No cause was given, but 
 Nellie McCaslin, a theater historian and educator considered the country's leading authority on children's theater, died on Feb. 28 at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 90 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after a heart attack, her niece and survivor, Alexa
 DAVIDSON--Constance (Vogel), of Scottsdale, AZ, formerly of Deal, NJ, and New York City, on March 10, 2005. Beloved wife, partner and companion of 58 years of Wallace; loving and devoted mother of Douglas, Jane Ellen and Stacy; adoring grandmother of Matthew and Julia; dear mother-in-law of
 KOCH--Elizabeth and Dr. Lynn H. The Horace Mann Community mourns with profound sorrow the tragic passing of Elizabeth Koch, class of 2005 and her beloved mother, Dr. Lynn H. Koch. Lizzie was an inspirational student leader, a gifted student and a treasured friend to all. An advocate for hum
 LEVIEN -- Janice (Currick). Passed away peacefully on Saturday, March 5th in her home in Palm Beach, FL at age 96. She was the widow of the late Francis S. Levien and is survived by her daughther and son-in-law Lorna and Robert Lubash, a grandson Kenneth (Lubash) and a granddaughter Cathy (
 LOWENSTEIN -- Katherine (nee Goldsmith) on March 10, 2005 at her home in New York City at the age of 103. She was predeceased by her husband Melvyn, a long-time member of the New York Bar to whom she had been married in 1925. She is survived by her sons James, Hugh and Peter; her sister Ber
 PASTERNAK--Sandra (nee Friedman), 51, on March 10 Beloved wife of Gavril, devoted mother of Katie, David and Anna Rose. Sister of Ricki Goldstein. Daughter of Flora and the late Eugene Friedman. Daughter-in-law of Laura and Richard Pasternak. Beloved sister-in-law, aunt and friend. A dedica
 SHAPIRO--Ethel. Cherished wife of Eugene for 47 years, beloved mother of Sylvia and Nella and son-in-law Jack, adoring grandmother of Max and Molly. A lifelong source of nurture, support and good cheer for family and friends. She will be missed and remembered by her many loved ones. Service
 Shirley Fleming, a writer, editor and critic in the world of classical music for almost 50 years, died on Thursday in Augusta, Ga. She was 75. Her cousin Martha Fleming said she died at the University Hospital of the Medical College of Georgia after a stroke that she had on Feb. 17.
 ABRAMSON -- Shirley (nee Tansman). ''Sunny'' was the beloved mother of Leslie and Steven, loving grandmother of Lila and Geoffrey, motherin-law to Karen and devoted companion to Leon Lobel, died peacefully March 12, at the age of 84. Sunny will be remembered for her effervescent, sunny pers
 BIRBACH--Muriel Friedman. Beloved sister. A kind and gentle soul. She will be missed. Sydelle, Irwin and Hannah       
 DAVIDSON--Constance (Vogel), of Scottsdale, AZ, formerly of Deal, NJ, and New York City, on March 10, 2005. Beloved wife, partner and companion of 58 years of Wallace; loving and devoted mother of Douglas, Jane Ellen and Stacy; adoring grandmother of Matthew and Julia; dear mother-in-law of
 GLENDON--Sr. Barbara. Beloved member of the Ursuline Sisters. Died on March 11. Daughter of the late William and Margaret Crowther Glendon. Survived by her brother and sister-in-law, William and Cindy Glendon, her niece and her husband, Darlene and Jesse Brown, and three grandnieces, Ally, 
 HEILBRONER--Shirley. Beloved wife of the late Robert Heilbroner, died at her home on East 57 St on Wednesday, March 9, 2005. She is survived by her sister Beryl Sporn, daughter Alexa Parker, grandsons Zeke Koch, Jonah Koch, Robert Parker and her great granddaughter Stella Dove Koch. Donatio
 HOLBROOK--Laurie J. Laurie was born on August 9, 1968. She passed gently on March 9, 2005, following a four year battle with a rare form of cancer. She was surrounded by her loved ones, but most especially by her devoted fiance, Joe Diamante. Laurie accepted her fate with tremendous courage
 KIMCHE--Ida. Born 1913 StGallen, Switzerland, de ceased March 11, 2005 Tel Aviv, Israel. Participated in The Zionist Congress in Basel, Switzerland. Immigrated to Israel in 1952. Shortly thereafter in 1965 she opened a prestigious art gallery in the Tel Aviv Hilton. Her long and prosperous 
 KOCH--Elizabeth and Dr. Lynn H. The Horace Mann Community mourns with profound sorrow the tragic passing of Elizabeth Koch, class of 2005 and her beloved mother, Dr. Lynn H. Koch. Lizzie was an inspirational student leader, a gifted student and a treasured friend to all. An advocate for hum
 LEVIEN -- Janice (Currick). Passed away peacefully on Saturday, March 5th in her home in Palm Beach, FL at age 96. She was the widow of the late Francis S. Levien and is survived by her daughther and son-in-law Lorna and Robert Lubash, a grandson Kenneth (Lubash) and a granddaughter Cathy (
 LEWIS--Eva Caroline Joel, age 86, peacefully passed away on March 11, 2005. Adored wife of Norman and cherished mother of Joan and Susan. Love of family, devotion to friends, strength, generosity and humor were the hallmarks of her life. She will be dearly missed, but never forgotten. We lo
 LOWENSTEIN -- Katherine (nee Goldsmith) on March 10, 2005 at her home in New York City at the age of 103. She was predeceased by her husband Melvyn, a long-time member of the New York Bar to whom she had been married in 1925. She is survived by her sons James, Hugh and Peter; her sister Ber
 MITCHELL--Sally, 91, peacefully at home December 28, 2004. Loving wife, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, sister, aunt and great-aunt. Sally was a kind, gentle woman whose first priority was love of family. She was a loyal and lifelong friend. She leaves behind her wonderful nurse's a
 PASTERNAK--Sandi. ''A woman of valor who can find? For her price is far above rubies...Strength and dignity are her clothing...Give her the fruits of her hands: and let her works praise her in the gates.'' Pat and Marty Pincus PASTERNAK--Sandra (nee Friedman), 51, on March 10 Belove
 SCHWARTZ -- Sylvia. Artist and educator, who during World War II began her career as an illustrator for Vogue Magazine and drew portraits of soldiers and sailors at the Stagedoor Canteen, inspired thousands of students, ages 6-96. She was district coordinator of art for Lawrence Public Scho
 SUNSHINE--Margaret, 89, on January 26, 2005. Well known make up designer for Broadway, movies, TV. Personal make up designer for Lauren Bacall, Ann Reinking, Joanne Woodward, Meryl Streep, Swoozie Kurtz, Barbara Harris, Bette Davis, etc. Everyone she touched became more beautiful. She will 
 WOLF--Lydia Brewster Hubbard. Of Cornwall, CT, died March 8th, 2005, aged 92, at Sharon (CT) Hospital (where she was born in 1913). Survived by a son, Thomas Gordon Wolf, two grandsons, Matthew and Stefan Wolf, all of Cornwall, three brothers, William of Wilmington, Gordon of Tuscon and Tho
 BLICK--Roslyn. On March 12, 2005. Passed away peacefully at home. Adoring and beloved mother of Marcy and Roberta. A wonderful woman born in the Bronx where she lived a full and happy life. Devoted employee of Columbia University Medical Center for over 35 years. She will be dearly missed a
 BROWN--Gage Fender. Of Manhattan and Onteora Park, NY, died on March 10, 2005. Beloved wife of Gregory A. Brown; devoted mother of Creel, Cabell and Alex Brown. Additionally she is survived by her parents Mrs. Hedrick Fender and Howard M. Fender of Ft. Worth, TX, and brothers Martin, Wyatt 
 CAINE--Ada (nee Curley). Died on March 12. Ada was the devoted wife of the late Martin G. Caine, and beloved mother of Robin Colner and Jonathan. Cherished sister of Laura Francis. Loving Nanna of Stacy and Michael Caine, and Michael and Jennifer Colner. Caring mother-in-law of Alan Colner 
 FLEMING -- Shirley. The Trustees of Composers Recordings, Inc., which is merging with New World Records, deeply mourn the death of our beloved Secretary. A distinguished and discerning music critic, she utilized criticism to enhance music. Unpretentious and modest, despite her vast knowledg
 KELLOGG -- Mary Louise Webster. Wife of Spencer Kellogg II, died on March 11. Besides her husband, she leaves five children, their spouses, 14 grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. Her children and their spouses are Spencer Kellogg III and Winifred of Wilton, Connecticut, Jean K. Petti
 KOENIG--Angela. On March 3, 2005. Age 84. Of Oyster Bay, LI. Beloved wife of the late Robert P. Koenig. Loving mother of Robert Julian Koenig, Harold O. Koenig (Nancy Leighton), Margarette W. Mongeau (Michael E.), Rosalie A. Koenig (John Karabatos), and John L. Koenig (Susan Winship). Cheri
 NASH -- Hortense. 83. On March 9, 2005. Devoted sister of Phyllis Sporn and the late Edgar Nash. Horty, as she was known to family and friends, graduated from Hunter College, worked for many years as a Senior Administrative Assistant for the Emil Mogul Advertising Agency and its successors,
 PASTERNAK -- Sandi. We deeply mourn the loss of our courageous friend, Sandi. Her spirit, inner strength, love and genuine loyalty to friends and family will always be remembered. Our deepest condolences to all who loved her. We will miss you, Sandi. Linda Willis and Jenny Carter PA
 RIPLEY--Priscilla W. Bradford. Of New Canaan, CT. Died March 10, 2005. Daughter of the late George Dexter Bradford and the late Dorothy Maupin Morris. Surviving her are her son Henry B.H. Ripley III and daughter Mrs. Roger H. Lichty, both of Denver, CO. Six grandchildren. Funeral services w
 ROHN--Dorothy Olson, 88, of Manhasset, NY on March 8, 2005. Loving wife of the late Frank Rohn. Devoted mother of Diane, Nancy, James, Thomas, Richard and William. Proud grandmother of 15 and great-grandmother of four. She lived a beautiful life and brought the gift of joy to all who knew h
 SCHULMAN--Dorothy A. On March 12, 2005, at age 84. Active in many philanthropic charities and former head of the Foundation Board of St. Mary's Hospital in Palm Beach, FL, and Board Member of Morton Museum in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of Milton. Loving mother of Steven and Ken and grandm
 CAMPBELL--Mary L., of New York, NY died March 11, 2005. She was a teacher of vocal music, string instruments and orchestra at the Milton School in Rye, NY for 32 years. She was predeceased by her brother, Dr. Ivor E. Campbell of New Albany, OH, and is survived by her sister, Ruth C. Tuomi o
 CARR--Hazel D. Age 75. Of Claverack, N.Y., formerly of Manhattan, on March 13, 2005 at home, after a long illness, bravely borne. The loving wife of Stanley for 48 years, she charmed everyone with her sense of humor and kindess. Generous until the end.       
 KELLOGG -- Mary Louise Webster. Wife of Spencer Kellogg II, died on March 11. Besides her husband, she leaves five children, their spouses, 14 grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. Her children and their spouses are Spencer Kellogg III and Winifred of Wilton, Connecticut, Jean K. Petti
 LINK--May Ferkin. Died March 14, 2005 in her 100th year, a life filled with dignity and service. A retired attorney, now living in Lake Worth, FL and Milton, NY, she spent most of her adult life in Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn, NY. She was a Founding Member of the Manhattan Beach Community Gro
 MESSIAS--Ruth Vitow, died peacefully at her home in New York City. A lampshade designer for over 50 years, she leaves a sister, a brother, several nieces and nephews and a host of friends. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, March 16, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76 Street & 
 SCHULMAN--Dorothy A. On March 12, 2005, at age 84. Active in many philanthropic charities and former head of the Foundation Board of St. Mary's Hospital in Palm Beach, FL, and Board Member of Norton Museum in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of Milton. Loving mother of Steven and Ken and grandm
 ADAMS--Ruth. The board and staff of the Trust for Mutual Understanding were deeply saddened by the death of Ruth Salzman Adams. Ruth enriched immensely the Trust's efforts to encourage closer East-West relations, bringing a breadth of knowledge, a level of curiosity, and a depth of experien
 FREY--Rosalind. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her family. May her memory be for blessing. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, Pres.       
 HELMAN--Eve. On March 14, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Morris J. Devoted mother of David and mother-in-law of Myra. Dear sister of Betty Hindes. Cherished grandmother of Philip and Nancy, and Jeffrey. Services Wednesday, 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in
 JACOBSON--Rose nee Heller. January 1, 1914 to March 14, 2005. Loving wife of Rabbi Bernard Jacobson, devoted mother of Miriam, Murray, Sherry and Allan Jacobson and their spouses David, Baila, Gene and Julie. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan, Ilana, Alyssa, Tamar, Edward and Jessica and te
 LINK--May Ferkin. Died March 14, 2005 in her 100th year, a life filled with dignity and service. A retired attorney, now living in Lake Worth, FL and Milton, NY, she spent most of her adult life in Manhattan Beach, Brooklyn, NY. She was a Founding Member of the Manhattan Beach Community Gro
 MAHON--Catherine Barry. On March 13, 2005 in her 99th year of life. Beloved wife of the late Thomas. Loving mother of Cornelia Mahon & Maureen Kelly. Also survived by four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren, as well as several nieces and nephews. Her wisdom, her joyous, generous, st
 MESSIAS--Ruth Vitow, died peacefully at her home in New York City. A lampshade designer for over 50 years, she leaves a sister, a brother, several nieces and nephews and a host of friends. Funeral services will be held on Wednesday, March 16, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76 Street & 
 SCHULMAN--Dorothy A. On March 12, 2005, at age 84. Active in many philanthropic charities and former head of the Foundation Board of St. Mary's Hospital in Palm Beach, FL, and Board Member of Norton Museum in Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of Milton. Loving mother of Steven and Ken and grandm
 WILSON--Christine Bagaloff of Manhattan and Old Lyme, Connecticut died on Friday, February 18th at age 81 in Boston, MA. Born in Hammond, IN, she performed in Broadway musicals before marrying the late C. Philip Wilson, M.D., a psychoanalyst. She is survived by her son Marc N. Wilson of Old
 Opal Petty, whose lawsuit over her 51-year involuntary commitment in Texas mental institutions led to changes in state policy, died on March 10 in San Angelo, Tex. She was 86 and lived in Christoval, Tex. The cause was pneumonia, said Linda Kauffman, the wife of Ms. Petty's nephew, 
 BREAKSTONE--Gladys, 78, of Atlanta, died Tuesday, March 15, 2005. She is survived by her sons and daughters-in-law, Ron & Gayle Breakstone; Steven and Elena Breakstone; sister and brother-in-law, Dorothy and Mortimer Malden; grandchildren, Nina, Dean and Matthew Breakstone. Mrs. Breakstone 
 BROWN--Catherine Young (Kay). Of Kennebunk, ME. previously of Englewood NJ died on March 13, 2005. Born in New York in 1917. She graduated from Katherine Gibbs School and worked for Time Inc. and the Dwight Englewood School for Girls as Registrar. She leaves behind her son Coley Brown Jr. a
 CRONKITE--Betsy. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of Educational Broadcasting Corporation, licensee of Thirteen/WNET and WLIW21, we note the passing and mourn the loss of Betsy Cronkite, beloved wife of our Trustee and friend Walter Cronkite. Through Walter, we had t
 LYNE--Ruth Lally. Late of Boston, MA, died at her winter home in Ocean Ridge, FL on March 16, 2005 after a long illness. She was 80 years old. Mrs. Lyne, the daughter of Grace and Frank Lally, grew up in Brookline, MA, attended Brookline High School and later Erskine Academy, before taking 
 MAHON--Catherine Barry. On March 13, 2005 in her 99th year of life. Beloved wife of the late Thomas. Loving mother of Cornelia Mahon & Maureen Kelly. Also survived by four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren, as well as several nieces and nephews. Her wisdom, her joyous, generous, st
 O'BRIEN--Ann B. (nee Britt) of Southampton on March 14, 2005. Predeceased by her husband Henry. Loving sister of Sr. Kathleen Britt, William P. Britt, Edward G. Britt and Margaret M. Medler. She is survived by her aunt Ruth Ann Henderson and 15 nieces and nephews as well as 33 grand nieces 
 SCHULDER--Shirley K. We mourn the passing of Shirley Schulder, devoted wife of Paul Schulder for 59 years. Loving mother of Elliott and Barbara Schulder, Lynnette and Jerry Gruenhut, Bill and Esther Schulder, Michael and Lu Schulder, grandchildren Marc, Jenny and Doug, Daniel, Lili, Lauren,
 SCHULMAN--Dorothy. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Dorothy Schulman, and extends sincere sympathy to her husband Milton, family and friends. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 WILSON--Christine Bagaloff of Manhattan and Old Lyme, Connecticut died on Friday, February 18th at age 81 in Boston, MA. Born in Hammond, IN, she performed in Broadway musicals before marrying the late C. Philip Wilson, M.D., a psychoanalyst. She is survived by her son Marc N. Wilson of Old
 Andre Norton, a prolific and popular science-fiction and fantasy writer whose central theme was the rite of passage to self-realization undertaken by misfits or displaced outsiders, died yesterday at her home in Murfreesboro, Tenn. She was 93. The cause was congestive heart failure,
 CRONKITE -- Betsy. We mourn the loss of our dear friend Betsy, devoted wife of our board member Walter. Her charm and razor-sharp wit enlivened all who knew her. Ruth and Skitch Henderson The New York Pops Board of Directors       
 IMUNDO--Isabel. On March 16, 2005. Beloved mother of Richard, Lisa, Aimee and Steven. Cherished grandmother of Julia, Luca, Francesca and Dashiel. Beloved sister. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call Friday, March 18, 4-8PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Mad
 JARCHO -- Edythe K. On March 16, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Arthur S. Jarcho and mother of Robert and Steven. Loved by all who knew her. Graveside service Friday, March 18, 11AM at Mt. Carmel Cemetery.       
 LERNER -- Betty. Beloved mother and aunt, passed away gently in her sleep in Los Angeles at the age of 95. Services will be held Sunday, March 20, 2005. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 MARANO--Mary Ann. The Officers and Board of Directors of the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation extend their condolences to her loving son, Thomas, our devoted Board member, her husband, her daughter and sons and their families, and her brothers on the loss of their mother, wife, gran
 RAHN--Susan. Best friend, first cousin, mentor. A piece of us is gone. She was a 10. Adrienne, Marty and family       
 SAVAGE--Dorothy M., 98, of Stamford, CT, formerly of Pelham Manor, NY and Eastham, MA, died Wednesday, March 16, 2005. Mother of Ann Martin (Roland) DiLeone, Rowayton, CT; grandmother of Linda (George) McLaughlin, Moneta, VA; Barbara (Sandon) Herzlich, Wayne, PA; Douglas (Kathleen) Martin, 
 BARRY--Mary A. on March 17, 2005. Beloved sister of Catherine Barry Eicher, her seven children and ten grandchildren and her late twin brothers, Richard and Mark Barry. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Saturday and Sunday 2-5PM. Mass of Christian burial at
 CANTOR -- Ysobl J. (nee Stone). Died in Teaneck, NJ, March 18, 2005, at age 93. She was the beloved widow of Herman, to whom she was married for over 50 years. She leaves her sons Gerry (Dorothy) of Westfield, Bill (Paula) of Woodcliff Lake, and Howard (Pamela) of Ramsey. She was loved and 
 FROST--Margaret. 91, a longtime resident of Southampton, died peacefully on March 17, 2005. Known to her friends as Mardie, she was noted for her great beauty, her wit, and her artistic talent. Mrs. Frost, nee Margaret Lawrance, was born in Paris on September 24, 1913, and grew up in Islip,
 JAFFE--Beatrice, 84, died on March 17, 2005. She was the beloved wife of the late Irving Jaffe, loving and devoted mother of Mark (and Carol) Jaffe, Elise (and Andrew) Brownstein; beloved grandmother of Adam (and Jennifer) Jaffe, Susannah (and Bernard) Goldstein and Alex and Julia Brownstei
 RAHN--Susan Ellen, 64, born Brooklyn, N.Y. Cherished daughter of the late Lucille and Nathan Goldman. Devoted wife of the late Robert Rahn. Survived by loving and deeply saddened family, sister Jane Goldman, sons Robert and Peter Martin, daughter-in-laws Lisa and Annie Martin, grandchildren
 ROSTENBERG--Dr. Leona. Died March 17, 2005. Beloved lifelong friend and partner of Madeleine B. Stern. Leona Rostenberg Rare Books was founded in 1944 and joined by Madeleine B. Stern in 1945. She was past president of the Antiquarian Booksellers' Association of America and a power in the w
 SCHULMAN--Dorothy. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Dorothy Schulman and extend to her bereaved husband Milton and the members of her family our sincere condolences. Bruce D. Frank, President Roger Eichel, 
 Midori Shimanouchi Lederer, who as founder and president emeritus of Japanese American Social Services Inc. helped provide social services to Asians and Asian-Americans in New York, died on March 9 at her home in Manhattan. She was 81. The cause was respiratory failure, her husband,
 BARRY--Mary A. on March 17, 2005. Beloved sister of Catherine Barry Eicher, her seven children and ten grandchildren and her late twin brothers, Richard and Mark Barry. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Saturday and Sunday 2-5PM. Mass of Christian burial at
 CAROTA--Elvira Mary, M.D. Physician, passed away peacefully at the Community Hospital, Dobbs Ferry, on February 15, 2005 at the age of 91. She was born to Domenico & Immaculata (Piscitelli) Carota in New York City. She was a resident of Scarsdale, N.Y. since 1959. Elvira was extremely accom
 GERSTL--Dorothy nee Bodner. Adored wife, mother, aunt, grandmother and great grandmother died on March 14, 2005, one day before her 90th birthday. Her undying love goes on forever.       
 KANTROWITZ--Rosalind. On March 19, 2005. Former librarian at Robbins Library, Arlington, MA, until her retirement in 2003. Beloved mother of Barbara, Lore and Andrea. Loving mother-in-law of Daniel Hertzberg, Charles Ashdown, and Scott Benjamin. Cherished grandmother of Caitlin, Michael, Be
 KAPLAN--Anne. A Woman of Valor Died March 16th, 2005 of Natural Causes. No matter what she put her mind to, she succeeded. Raising a child on her own and managing to find the time to become one of the most outstanding Operating Nurses. She graduated first in her class and won numerous award
 RAHN--Susan Ellen, 64, born Brooklyn, N.Y. Cherished daughter of the late Lucille and Nathan Goldman. Devoted wife of the late Robert Rahn. Survived by loving and deeply saddened family, sister Jane Goldman, sons Robert and Peter Martin, daughter-in-laws Lisa and Annie Martin, grandchildren
 ROSTENBERG--Dr. Leona. Died March 17, 2005. Beloved lifelong friend and partner of Madeleine B. Stern. Leona Rostenberg Rare Books was founded in 1944 and joined by Madeleine B. Stern in 1945. She was past president of the Antiquarian Booksellers' Association of America and a power in the w
 SHALLOE--Irene. Of Crestwood, in her 104th year, on March 17, 2005. Wife of the late Thomas. Mother of Betty O'Gorman & Peggy Mitchell, and the late Jane Anderson. Grandmother of 13, greatgrandmother of 25. Calling hours at the Fred H. McGrath & Son Funeral Home, Bronxville, between the hou
 WINSLOW--Sadie. The Board of Directors of Louise Wise Services deeply mourn the passing of Sadie Winslow, an esteemed member of our Board for over 50 years. A passionate advocate for human rights and an outspoken critic against social injustices, she always recognized the specific needs of 
 Lisa Fittko, who achieved fame, particularly in Germany, by leading Jews and members of the anti-Hitler resistance from Nazi-occupied France to Spain, died on March 12 in Chicago. She was 95. The cause was pneumonia, said Evelyn Marsh, her niece. Ms. Fittko emerged from a le
 CHILEWICH--Virginia Kaye, formerly Bloomgarden, nee Dottenheim. Her sudden death leaves behind a bereaved husband, Simon; her two sons, David and John Bloomgarden; her stepchildren, Mel and David Chilewich and Sandy Sultan; 12 grandchildren; and five greatgrandchildren. Virginia had a long 
 FIRSTMAN -- Lorraine. On March 20, 2005. Loving wife of the late Albert Firstman (z'l); beloved mother of Kenneth and Chantal Firstman, and Michael Firstman; adoring grandmother of Deborah and Akiva Shmidman, Naomi Firstman and Adena Firstman, and great-grandmother of Menucha and Malkiel; c
 PRICE--Ilona R. On March 19, 2005, at the age of 65. Beloved wife of Dr. Ely Price. Survived by children Dr. Robert Amazon and Dr. Harley Stevens and stepsons Jeremy Price and Andrew Price, aunt Helen Lamazow and uncle Dr. Hirsch Lazar Silverman, her nieces, cousins and many friends. A wond
 RATNER--Dr. Lillian. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 TONER--Phyllis E. On March 20, 2005. Longtime and devoted employee of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP. Beloved daughter of the late Charles and Sonia. She will be missed by many relatives and friends. Services Monday, 12:45 pm, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. 
 CHEEL--Helen Snell, passed away on March 18, 2005, at her home in Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, at age 100, after a short illness. Mrs. Cheel was born on May 10, 1904 in Potsdam, NY. She was the daughter of Sara Merrick Snell and The Honorable Bertrand H. Snell, Minority Leader of the House of Representat
 GREENSPAN--Gert, in her 95th year. Beloved mother of Marilyn and Martin London, Howard and Gail Greenspan, Stephen and Ann Greenspan. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother, dear sister of Ida Marshall. Service 1:30 P.M., today at Temple Beth El of the Northern Valley, 221 Schraalenburgh 
 HEARSHEN--Anita Minca Shawmut. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Anita Minca Shawmut Hearshen, beloved mother of Harriet Mouchly-Weiss, a treasured leader of the New York Jewish community whose commitment and generosity has enrich
 LIPTSCHER--Paul, 86, of Yonkers, NY, on March 20, 2005. Beloved husband of Sally. Devoted father of Felice & husband Howard Ecker and Marilyn & her husband Steve Kram. Loving grandfather of Brett, David, Ben, Jordan and Natalie. We will never forget your stories and teachings. You'll live f
 McGOVERN--Rita M. Of Lynn, MA, formerly of Cold Spring Harbor, NY and County Cavan, Ireland, died March 18. Funeral was held Monday at St. Mary's Church in Lynn. Donations in her memory may be sent to the Hospice of the North Shore, 10 Elm St., Danvers, MA 01923.       
 ROTHMAN -- Frances Joy. Age 70. Died March 19, 2005. Surviving are her children Jeffrey A., Michael S., David and Mindy Fedash, 11 grandchildren. Graveside service was held Monday at Beth Israel Cemetery, Woodbridge, NJ. Donations to American Heart Association, 2550 Rt 1, North Brunswick, N
 SCHWARTZ--Pearl K., on March 20, 2005. Beloved mother of Mitchell and Laurie. Loving sister of Rhea. Her soul will be resting on the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem.       
 SOLOMON--Rosina Rich, 99 of NYC has completed her journey in life and entered eternal rest on Sunday, March 20th. She was predeceased by her loving husband Henry Solomon. She was a devoted and most beloved aunt to Caterine Nigro, Nina Vetterlein and Frank Viscardi. Visitation will be on Wed
 TONER--Phyllis E. The partners, council, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, greatly mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Phyllis E. Toner. Phyllis was a beloved member of the Paul, Weiss family for more than 35 years and she will be greatly missed. 
 WINSLOW--Sadie M. A tireless advocate for her community and seniors everywhere. Respected for her devotion to the American dream and her ability to encourage the community to work together for the common good. Board of Directors, Staff and Volunteers Seniors Helping Seniors, Inc.       
 CHEEL--Helen Snell, passed away on March 18, 2005, at her home in Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, at age 100, after a short illness. Mrs. Cheel was born on May 10, 1904 in Potsdam, NY. She was the daughter of Sara Merrick Snell and The Honorable Bertrand H. Snell, Minority Leader of the House of Representat
 LIGHT--Gloria. Extraordinary wife, mother and grandmother, died March 21. She is survived by her husband of 52 years, Stan, daughter Lori of NY, son Andrew (Vicki) of Cramerton, NC, and three grandchildren, Mason, Samantha & Derek. Donations to Gaston Hospice, PO Box 3984, Gastonia, NC 2805
 SCHWARTZ--Pearl K. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of dedicated supporter and Board member, Pearl K. Schwartz of Roslyn, NY. We send our heartfelt condolences to her family and friends. Robert B. Machinist, Chair, American Committee Dr. Albert
 TOMLINSON--Anne Jefferys, 82, of Vero Beach, FL died at home on March 15, 2005 after a long illness. Mrs. Tomlinson was born on March 17, 1922 in Bryn Mawr, PA and moved to Vero Beach in 1994 after living in Princeton, NJ and Mantoloking, NJ. Her husband of sixty years, Henry Prout Tomlinso
 TONER--Phyllis E. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, greatly mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Phyllis E. Toner. Phyllis was a beloved member of the Paul, Weiss family for more than 35 years and she will be greatly missed. 
 ZUR--Amram. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of the America-Israel Friendship League extend our sincerest condolences to our friend and colleague, Dalia Zur, on the passing of her beloved husband, Amram. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to her Ilan, Vanessa and family. Kenneth J. B
 Cushing N. Dolbeare, a leading expert on federal housing policy and a longtime campaigner for affordable housing for low-income people, died on March 17 at her home in Mitchellville, Md. She was 78. The cause was cancer, according to the National Low Income Housing Coalition, the re
 Leona Rostenberg, a rare-book scholar and dealer who with her partner of 50 years, Madeleine B. Stern, discovered a series of racy novels written by Louisa May Alcott under a pseudonym, died on March 17 at her apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 96. Ms. Rostenberg
 BIJUR--Mildred R. (Mickey) Pollack. Beloved by her sons David and Jason, her four cats, Becky, and her many friends. On March 20, 2005, of cancer, which she fought so valiantly, at her home with her sons, cats and Becky at her side. Her children request that instead of flowers you send a do
 COHEN -- Lorraine. Passed away suddenly and peacefully on March 22, 2005 at an age of 77. She was a beloved English and Drama teacher at Teaneck High School in Teaneck, NJ for over 25 years. She was also a great theater director, actress, and debate coach. She has published three books of s
 DANIELS--Emma A. Lutheran Medical Center mourns the passing of Emma A. Daniels, a friend and, through her stewardship of the May Ellen and Gerald Ritter Foundation, a supporter of Lutheran Medical Center. Ms. Daniels distinguished herself as a voice of eloquence, grace and compassion as pre
 FIGATNER--Antoinette (Tony), died peacefully at her home on March 23, 2005, at age 101. Her mental sharpness and vibrancy were a constant to the end. Beloved wife of the late Joseph, devoted mother of Erny F. Libros and Lucy F. Ullmann, cherished grandmother of John, Steven, Laurie, David a
 GORDON--Alice age 89 died Wednesday March 23, 2005. Born in Detroit, MI on September 24, 1915 of Samuel and Lena Zucker. Her mother died in the flu epidemic of 1918 and she was raised by a new mother, Fanny. She grew up in Washington, D.C., and the marches of the unemployed during the early
 HARTMAN--Phyllis, 77, on March 20, 2005 in Laguna Woods, CA. Beloved wife of David. Adored mother of Alison, Roger and Rick. Dearest sister-in-law of Eileen Kaplan. Grandmother of Katherine Lauricella, Jordan Hartman, and Daisy Hartman. Devoted aunt and great-aunt. Cherished friend to all w
 MYERS--Bertha (nee Wohl). Wife of the late Lester Myers. Died in Los Angeles, March 23, 2005 at age 90. A graduate of Brooklyn College, she taught at Newtown High School and retired to San Diego. She leaves her sister, three children, four grandchildren and three great grandchildren.       
 SILVERSTEIN -- Audrey, a Gracious Lady, intelligent, beautiful and charitable, passed peacefully from our lives March 21, 2005. She left us with a lifetime of memories, full of laughter, joy, kindness and friendship. She was more to us than a sister-inlaw and aunt. Together with her late hu
 WIJNHAUSEN -- Louise. 93. Feb. 27 at Foulkeways, Gwynedd, PA. Beloved by family and friends. Born in Amsterdam, Louise emigrated in 1940 to NYC, en route helping two R.A.F. pilots escape occupied France. In NY she joined London based publisher Sheed & Ward; her first job, to prepare high te
 BIJUR--Mildred R. (Mickey) Pollack. Beloved by her sons David and Jason, her four cats, Becky, and her many friends. On March 20, 2005, of cancer, which she fought so valiantly, at her home with her sons, cats and Becky at her side. Her children request that instead of flowers you send a do
 CHERNOTSKY -- Leila. We extend our sincerest condolences to Rachel (and Paul) Glasser, Sandy (and Barry) Nussbaum, Harry (and Elaine) Chernotsky, and Isaac (and Sherry) Chernotsky on the loss of their beloved mother. A spirited, sensitive and caring person with an infectious love of life an
 FIGATNER--Antoinette (Tony), died peacefully at her home on March 23, 2005, at age 101. Her mental sharpness and vibrancy were a constant to the end. Beloved wife of the late Joseph, devoted mother of Erny F. Libros and Lucy F. Ullmann, cherished grandmother of John, Steven, Laurie, David a
 HARWOOD--Laura, 59, on March 24, 2005, after a courageous battle with breast cancer. Beloved daughter of Betty Harwood and the late Milton Harwood. Loving sister of Janet Felleman and Victor Harwood. Devoted aunt to Juliette Janssens, Susanna Felleman & Elizabeth Felleman. Her passion for t
 HOROWITZ -- Margaret on March 23, 2005. Beloved wife of 64 years of Raymond. Loving mother of Judith Babcock. She will be profoundly missed. Funeral private. Memorial service to be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to your favorite art mu
 PFEFERBLUM--Irene. It is with great sorrow that we note the passing of our esteemed friend. For many years, she served energetically as our volunteer bookkeeper and administrative assistant. We grieve with her family on this sad occasion. May her soul find rest and peace in Heaven. Congrega
 ADLER--Helen. Died quietly at her home on March 24, 2005 at age 101. Devoted wife of her late husband Irving, adoring mother of Elaine Young & her partner Virginia Syron and Jack and Judith Adler, loving grandmother of Matthew, Sharon, Anna and Danielle and doting great grandmother to Jonat
 BIJUR--Mildred R. (Mickey) Pollack. Beloved by her sons David and Jason, her four cats, Becky, and her many friends. On March 20, 2005, of cancer, which she fought so valiantly, at her home with her sons, cats and Becky at her side. Her children request that instead of flowers you send a do
 GOLDBERG--Sylvia K., on March 24, 2005. Loving, caring and devoted Mother of her precious son, Donald. Graveside services were held at Montefiore Cemetery.       
 GREENE -- Evelyn, (nee Greenhouse), died on March 25, 2005, she is survived by her daughters, Joyce Leslie and Lois Greene Hernandez. three grandchildren, many loving nieces and nephews and a host of wonderful friends. Funeral services will be held at 10:30am on Sunday, March 27, 2005 at Go
 HARWOOD--Laura, 59, on March 24, 2005, after a courageous battle with breast cancer. Beloved daughter of Betty Harwood and the late Milton Harwood. Loving sister of Janet Felleman and Victor Harwood. Devoted aunt to Juliette Janssens, Susanna Felleman & Elizabeth Felleman. Her passion for t
 SCHWARTZ -- Pearl K. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Pearl K. Schwartz. Our heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Dr. Steven Zeldis, President       
 SHEPARD--Phebe M. Died Thursday in Rhode Island. She was the wife of the late John Shepard, and a graduate of Russell Sage College, Troy, NY. Mrs. Shepard was President of the former Manchester Silver Co. Survived by three sons, John Shepard of Maine, George W. Shepard of Danielson, CT and 
 Katherine A. Lathrop, a pioneering researcher in nuclear medicine and a member of a University of Chicago team that developed an isotope widely used to locate and diagnose cancers, died on March 10 at a nursing home in Las Cruces, N.M. She was 89. The cause was advanced dementia, he
 BECKELMAN--Melanie. Known professionally as Melanie Wygonik. Died March 8, 2005. Artist, writer, musician. Princeton '73, Pratt '75. Her intellect, her creative vision and her passion set her apart. She cared deeply for her family and her friends. We returned her love.       
 BIJUR--Mildred R. (Mickey) Pollack. Beloved by her sons David and Jason, her four cats, Becky, and her many friends. On March 20, 2005, of cancer, which she fought so valiantly, at her home with her sons, cats and Becky at her side. Her children request that instead of flowers you send a do
 BLUMBERG--Ann G. Died peacefully at her home on Friday, March 25, 2005 after a long life of 101 years. She is the widow of Leo Blumberg who died in 1955. She leaves a devoted family consisting of her sister Beatrice Gottfried, her sisters-in-law, Freeda and Nancy Green, her children, Alan G
 BLUMENSTOCK--Lea. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the passing of Lea Blumenstock, mother of Ruth B. Mandel, Vice Chair of our governing Council. A passenger on the S.S. St. Louis, which was denied entry into the U.S. in 1939, Mrs. Blumenstock found refuge in England, with
 EISENBERGER--Lotte. On March 23, 2005 at age 87. Born in Vienna, Austria, she emigrated to New York to escape Hitler with her husband, Walter Eisenberger, and her sister and husband Mimi and Theo Klein. Settling in Harrison in 1954, Lotte entered real estate and opened her own office, Lotte
 GOLDBERG--Frances W. 94, of Margate, FL, and formerly of the Bronx, NY, on March 21, 2005. Dear wife of the late Albert H. Goldberg and devoted mother of Jane E. Goldberg of New York City. Born October 31, 1910, in Colchester, CT, she lived a long and healthy life and passed peacefully in h
 HARWOOD--Laura, 59, on March 24, 2005, after a courageous battle with breast cancer. Beloved daughter of Betty Harwood and the late Milton Harwood. Loving sister of Janet Felleman and Victor Harwood. Devoted aunt to Juliette Janssens, Susanna Felleman & Elizabeth Felleman. Her passion for t
 HOROWITZ -- Margaret on March 23, 2005. Beloved wife of 64 years of Raymond. Loving mother of Judith Babcock. She will be profoundly missed. Funeral private. Memorial service to be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to your favorite art mu
 JOLIS--Gillian. Died at her home on March 25, 2005. Loving wife of Andrew Goldstein. Adored sister of Jennifer Jolis, Rosette Jolis, Daniel Gibson, Kerry Piesch, Steven and Melissa Jolis, and Mark and Ina Jolis. Gillian lived her life with joy and gave generously of herself to others. Words
 O'DALY--Mary (nee King) of Brooklyn, NY, on March 25, 2005 at the age of 94. Youngest daughter of five siblings. Loving wife of the late Fergus O'Daly, Sr. for 47 years. ''Momma,'' as she was known to all, is survived by her ten children, Lawrence, Brian, Kevin, Barry, Fergus II, Michael, J
 TOKIEDA--Margaret Quigley (Peggy). We deeply mourn her sudden death on March 21, 2005. Peggy was beloved by her children, Kathryn J. and Charles P., and by her late husband George. Family and friends relished her humor and wit. Her strength and determination were an inspiration to all who k
 Dr. Georgeanna S. Jones, who was half of a husband-and-wife team that created the first program for in vitro fertilization in the United States and its first ''test tube'' baby, died on Saturday at a hospital in Norfolk, Va. She was 92 and lived in Portsmouth, Va. The cause was card
 FRIEDMAN--Dorothy. 86, of Columbia, SC, on March 26th, 2005. Wife of the late Joseph. Born in New York, NY, she was the daughter of the late Issac and Ida Horuck Asnin. She was a member of Beth Shalom Synagogue. Surviving are son and daughter-inlaw Dr. Harold Ira and Clark Friedman of Colum
 FRIEDMAN--Ida Wortis of Canton, MA. Passed March 26, 2005 at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. Beloved mother of Hetty and Chris, Ella and Michael. Cherished grandmother of Janna and Rick, Ethan and Maria, Alex and Michaela. Greatgrandmother of Evan, Matthew, Elijah and Aliyah. Daug
 GOING--Jeanne L. Of Garden City and Westhampton Beach, NY, on March 26, 2005, after a courageous battle with ovarian cancer. Beloved daughter of Irene and the late Edmund Connolly. Loving wife of James P. Going. Cherished mother of Garrett and his wife Jennifer, Drew and his wife Marilyn, B
 JEROME--Ida Judith Intrator. Dee Jerome, age 77, died Saturday, March 26 at St. Peter's Medical Center, New Brunswick, NJ. A resident of Monroe Township, NJ, Dee was the loving mother of daughters Deborah Jerome-Cohen and Mimi Krumholz. She was the proud grandmother of Specialist Matthew Le
 JOLIS--Gillian. Died at her home on March 25, 2005. Loving wife of Andrew Goldstein. Adored sister of Jennifer Jolis, Rosette Jolis, Daniel Gibson, Kerry Piesch, Steven and Melissa Jolis, and Mark and Ina Jolis. Gillian lived her life with joy and gave generously of herself to others. Words
 JUTKOWITZ--Bernice E. Of Rye, NY. Died March 27, 2005, at age 85. Born June 3, 1919, in Manhattan to Samuel and Ethel (Rosenblum) Epstein. Survived by her husband J. David Jutkowitz, a daughter Linda Jutkowitz Meyers, grandchildren Karen Meyers Arrese (Gregory) and Hope Meyers Bond (Mogolod
 SILBER -- Kathryn Under wood Silber, 78, of Brookline, died Saturday, March 26, 2005. Wife of Dr. John R. Silber; mother of Rachel Devlin and Martha Hathaway of Newton, MA, Judith Ballan of New York City, Alexandra Silber Mock of Carlsbad, CA, Ruth Belmonte of State College, PA, and Carolin
 GOING--Jeanne L. Of Garden City and Westhampton Beach, NY, on March 26, 2005, after a courageous battle with ovarian cancer. Beloved daughter of Irene and the late Edmund Connolly. Loving wife of James P. Going. Cherished mother of Garrett and his wife Jennifer, Drew and his wife Marilyn, B
 HASSENFELT -- Marjorie (Sally). Broadway stage manager and theater consultant, died on Friday after a long battle with MS, according to her companion, David Pleva. She was fifty-two. Ms. Hassenfelt, during her career, served on Broadway as a stage manager for ''42nd Street'', ''Annie'',and 
 JOLIS--Gillian. Died at her home on March 25, 2005. Loving wife of Andrew Goldstein. Adored sister of Jennifer Jolis, Rosette Jolis, Daniel Gibson, Kerry Piesch, Steven and Melissa Jolis, and Mark and Ina Jolis. Gillian lived her life with joy and gave generously of herself to others. Words
 JUTKOWITZ--Bernice. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to her husband, David, her daughter Lisa and to the entire family. Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Emeritus Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Robert M. Schack
 MILLER--Judith Fuld, died at home March 21, 2005 at age 70. Beloved and loving daughter, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt and cousin. Daughter of the late Judge Stanley H. and Florence Fuld. She is mourned by her daughter Leah Matuson and sons Peter and Steven Miller; grandchildren Geena M
 SCHLAGER--Jean. On March 27, 2005. Beloved sister of Stanley Schleger. She was a woman of distinction whose memory will live on.       
 BLOCK--Mildred. On March 28, 2005, peacefully at her home. Beloved wife to the late Kenneth, devoted mother to Michael, Terry, Karen and Marvin. Loving grandma to Marnie and Rochelle. Services will be at ''Gutterman's'' 175 North Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre, Wednesday at 12 noon.     
 BRENNER--Kathryn. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Kathryn Brenner, mother of Julie Morris, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. June Walker National President       
 FINKEL--Rose. On March 28, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Abraham B. Loving mother of Marlane (Gerald) Solomon, Michael (Joan) and Maxine (Richard) Shriber. Cherished grandmother of Jodi, Gregg, Felicia, Glenn, Danielle and John. Great grandmother of Jennifer, Jason, Ryan, Jared, Kyle, Jame
 LOMBARDI -- Joanne C. March 27, 2005. Beloved wife of the late George, devoted mother of Susan Giovinco and Dr. George Lombardi, cherished grandmother of Michael, Peter, Milan, Lauren and Gabriel. Loving sister of Theresa, Rita and the late Josephine, Alice, Cecelia, Thomas, Stella, Henriet
 MAZZOLA--Patricia, 63, died at her home in Kent, CT. on Wednesday, March 23, 2005. Pat received a BSN from Cornell University in 1964 & a MBA from Columbia University in 1984. She had a 31 year career in nursing at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She served as Chairman of the Depart
 RAND--Dr. M.J. Werthman. Of Redlands, CA, formerly of Chicago, IL, and New York, died on March 25, 2005. She was a well known speaker, college teacher and author of ''Behavioral Managed Care.'' At the time of her death, she was an administrator at Kaiser Permanente, Fontana, CA. The funeral
 ROBBINS--Joan. Of Manhattan, passed away suddenly after a courageous battle. Born in the Bronx, a graduate of Hunter College and a Registered Dietitian. Beloved wife of the late Bernard, and the greatly loved and cherished mother of Gerald and Eve. After the passing of Bernard, Joan became 
 SHORT--Elinor Monell, died peacefully March 28, 2005 at the age of 99 in Richmond, Virginia having previously lived for many years in Allendale, New Jersey. She was predeceased by her beloved husband of 41 years, William M. Short and her sister, Dorothy M. Short. She is survived by her daug
 BIRNKRANT--Ruth, 92. The relatives and friends announce with great sorrow the death of Ruth Birnkrant wife of the late Arthur Birnkrant. She died on March 29th peacefully after a prolonged illness. We shall inform you of a memorial date in the near future in order to share our grief.       
 EZRATTY--Sarah. Died on March 29, 2005 at the age of 96, after a long & blessed life. She arrived on Ellis Island as an only child in 1909. She leaves behind four loving sons, Albert, Joseph, Bernard & Martin; & four daughtersin-law, Essie, Pearl, Dorothy & Rona; 11 grandchildren & 21 great
 HOCHMAN--Helen (Annie) Age 90. On March 29, 2005. Loving aunt of Joan Hollander and the late Dr. Charles S. Hollander. Devoted great aunt of Ellen Sande (Michael), Rushie and Barbara Hollander. Proud great-great aunt of Benjamin Yonaton Sande. Services Thursday 2PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th
 SWITSKY--Jean Brickman, died Tuesday, March 29. Loving wife of the late Julius. Cherished mother of Steve Switsky and Ellen Orso. Devoted grandmother of Jonathan Graynor and Robert & Mattan Newhouse. Much loved mother-in-law of Dominick Orso and Doris Switsky. President of the Brightwater T
 WASSER--Sylvia. On March 30, 2005 at age 81. Beloved wife for 56 years of Adolph. Loving mother of Steven (Stephanie) and Daniel (Marcia). Cherished grandmother of Jacqueline, Merrill, Maddie, Caryn, and Melissa. A spirited woman guided by Jewish ethics with a love of learning and intellect
 WERTHMAN - RAND -- Dr. M.J. Of Redlands, CA, formerly of Chicago, IL, and New York, died on March 25, 2005. She was a well known speaker, college teacher and author of ''Behavioral Managed Care.'' At the time of her death, she was an administrator at Kaiser Permanente, Fontana, CA. The fune
