 DOLAN-Elizabeth M, 93, MIT graduate, November 28, of NYC and formerly of Cambridge, MA. Survived by nephews Harry Dolan III of Gloucester, MA, Peter Dolan of Princeton, NJ, nieces, Sarah Simmons of New Canaan, CT and Johanna Baldwin of Lynchburg, VA. She was the sister of the late Harry Dol
 GERSHENOV-Doris. On November 30, 2002, formerly of Larchmont, died at home in Armonk. She was 78. Doris worked with her husband Albert as office administrator of the Realty Group. Beloved wife of the late Albert (died June '02), devoted mother of Joseph Gershenov, Barbara Rubin and the late
 HESS-Dr. Margarete Katzenstein, in her 98th year on November 30, 2002. Widow of Dr. Leo Hess. Mourned by her cousins, nieces, nephew, dear friends and many many grateful patients. For information call Riverside Memorial Chapel at 212-362-6600.       
 MALAKOFF-Henrietta (nee Hameroff). Died Wednesday, two weeks from her 87th birthday. She was known for writing and directing plays and variety shows, first for Cub Scouts and the PTA, and then later for her Senior Citizen friends. Her humor and kindness infused not only her staged productio
 PEYRONNIN-Dorothy Hargreaves, beloved and courageous mother and grandmother, died Tuesday, November 26, at her home in Fort Collins, Colorado. She was 85 years old. The cause of death was heart failure. Her husband, Lt. Col. Joseph Felix Peyronnin, Retired, predeceased her in 1993. She is s
 QUINN-Rita M. On November 16, 2002, with her family at her bedside. Beloved sister, aunt and godmother. A legend in TV news, Rita worked for and was a devoted friend to Mike Wallace and Diane Sawyer. Warm, generous, intelligent, vivacious, loyal, Rita will be missed by all who knew her and 
 RAGUSA-Maria Concetta, 80. Died peacefully on November 27, 2002. Born in Limina, Sicily to Giuseppa and Giuseppe Coglitore. Wife of the late Giuseppe Ragusa and sister of the late Nunzio Coglitore. Survived by her daughter Maria Pino and husband Nino, her son Phil Ragusa and wife Susan, and
 RIEFLE-Barbara Thorlichen. Age 56, died on November 5, 2002 at her home in NYC after a courageous battle with cancer. Born in Hameln, Germany on June 1, 1946, Barbara emigrated with her family to the USA at the age of seven. She was the daughter of the late Heinz P. Thorlichen and Ursula Ke
 VAN DINE-Isabel. November 27, 2002. Beloved wife of Vance Van Dine. Loving mother of the late Rose M. Van Dine. Devoted sister of Thomas, Samuel and Richard Brewster. Loving aunt of numerous nieces and nephews. Born in NYC, and a graduate of Miss Hall's School, and Smith College Class of 19
 WARMS - Dorothy Glenz. Age 90. Died peacefully at home November 26, 2002. Survived by her daughters, Lisbeth Orgel (Charles) and Miggie Warms, and by her granddaughter, Sara A. Orgel, and grandson, Daniel Richard Orgel. Born July 31, 1912, Dorothy Warms was a graduate of Hunter College H.S.
 COHEN - Talia. Age 16, passed away on November 30, 2002, after a long, courageous battle with cancer. Beloved daughter of Andre and Naomi Cohen of Mamaronneck, NY, loving sister of Daniel Cohen, granddaughter of Abraham Katz, Talia will be greatly missed by her cousins, Arielle, David and J
 HERMELIN - Laura (nee Brooks). On November 30, 2002. Widow of Marc, the love of her life. Fiercely loyal matriarch, loving and loved mother of Joan and Harry Bruce, Sheila Klempner and Victoria Swirsky. Sister of Alfred and the late Ada Barron. Adored grandmother of Ken and Judy, Jennifer, 
 LOWENSTEIN-Bernice (nee Breitman). On November 24, 2002 in her 92nd year, in Hamden, CT, formerly of Cresskill, N.J. She is survived by her brother Donahl (Harry) and her sister Beatrice Perry, both of NYC & her daughter Helene Quick of Washington, D.C., her son Richard and his wife Eleanor
 MELAMED-Feiga. Husband Mr. Ghers Melamed, daughters Assia and Jeannine, and grandson David announce with great sorrow the untimely death of Feiga Melamed, born Bales Kogan, that occurred during the night of November 25-26. She was 92 years old. She lies now in peace for eternity. The funera
 MITZNER-Fay. Of NYC. Passed away Saturday, November 30. Beloved mother of Ira (Marjorie) and Richard (Sharon), who looked after and cared for her. Cherished grandmother of Robert, Jennifer and Stephanie, and devoted sister of Joseph Goldman. A designer of doll's clothes for her entire life,
 PLITT-Norma Q. On November 30, 2002. She was born on October 6, 1919, and in her 83 years she was an early modern dancer, an artist, Zionist, NGO Rep to the UN and active in various humanitarian causes. She was a consummate New Yorker and an inspiration to all who knew her. Wife of the late
 VAN DINE-Isabel. November 27, 2002. Beloved wife of Vance Van Dine. Loving mother of the late Rose M. Van Dine. Devoted sister of Thomas, Samuel and Richard Brewster. Loving aunt of numerous nieces and nephews. Born in NYC, and a graduate of Miss Hall's School, and Smith College Class of 19
 ADNEPOS-Selma R. Died peacefully on December 1 at the age of 88. Devoted wife of the late S. Bernard Adnepos. Survived by her daughter Marjorie Berkley and her son Lee Adnepos and five grandchildren and one great grandchild. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to The
 ALBANO-Dr. Flora. 89, of New Canton, Virginia formerly of New York, New York. A graduate of NYU School of Dentistry. Died on Saturday, November 30, 2002. Her grandson David Kimbell resides in New Canton.       
 BAKER-Susan R. Was born on August 28, 1948 in New York City and was 54 years old when she died. Fathers name, Milton Kramer, Mothers name Shirley (Pravder) Kramer. Susan was the President of Susan Lawrence Gourmet Foods, 26 North Greeley Avenue in Chappaqua, New York. Susan graduated from R
 BURCHILL - Sarah Watch man, 38 years of age, of New Canaan, CT, died Friday November 29, 2002, in Greenwich Hospital. A graduate of Choate Rosemary Hall and Brown University, she served as an Emergency Medical Technician with the New Canaan Volunteer Ambulance Corps. Sally is survived by he
 CHUDNOW - Bryce Logan Bergman. Central Synagogoue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member Bryce Chudnow. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, Pres.       
 DAVIES-Sharon O. The NYS Psychiatric Institute, Columbia University Department of Psychiatry, and The Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene mourn the loss of our devoted friend and colleague, Sharon Davies, research nurse, generous clinician, untiring advocate to the mentally ill, pillar o
 GERSHENOV - Doris. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Doris Gershenov. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her children and all her family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors Stan Brettschneider, P
 GOLDMAN-Sheryl. The entire Peninsula Hospital Center family is saddened by the passing of Sheryl Goldman, Director, Materials Management, dedicated employee for over 29 years. Sincere condolences are extended to her son Robert Goldman and the Goldman family. Joel A. Miele, Sr., P.E., Chairm
 WARMS - Dorothy Glenz. Age 90. Died peacefully at home November 26, 2002. Survived by her daughters, Lisbeth Orgel (Charles) and Miggie Warms, and by her granddaughter, Sara A. Orgel, and grandson, Daniel Richard Orgel. Born July 31, 1912, Dorothy Warms was a graduate of Hunter College H.S.
 Ellen Straus, a passionate environmentalist and co-owner of the first organic dairy farm west of the Mississippi River, died on Saturday at her home in Marshall, Calif., north of San Francisco. She was 75. The cause was brain cancer, her family said. A pioneer in the purchas
 Joanna Bistany, who became a broadcast news executive when such positions at television networks were almost exclusively occupied by men, died of cancer at her parents' home in Langhorne, Pa., on Sunday, ABC News said yesterday. She was 55 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Bistany spent 1
 EHRENPREIS-Selma, on November 27, 2002. Adored wife of the late Samuel. Beloved mother of Marc (Barbara) and Jay. Loving grandmother of Michael, Debra, Brian and Daniel. Contributions in her memory may be made to Town & Village Synagogue, 334 East 14 Street, NYC.       
 FURMAN - Gertrude Ker man. Age 93, died at home on December 3 after a long illness. Devoted wife of the late Joseph Kerman and the late LeRoy Furman. Beloved mother to Patricia K. Lerner and Julie K. Adelman and mother-in-law to Sylvain Lerner and Lawrence Adelman. Cherished grandmother to 
 GOLDFEDER-Rose. 88, died peacefully surrounded by her family. Card whiz, bowling champ and mahjongg pro, Rosie was a presence in Brooklyn and Fort Lauderdale. Dearly loved her late husband Sammy, and her children Edward (Phyllis) and Jerry (Alice); grandchildren Michelle, Lisa, Peter (Laris
 HAMBURGER-Anna, after a brief illness. Born December 31, 1911. Beloved wife and mother. Deeply mourned by ten grandchildren, 14 greatgrandchildren. Former Director in Europe of the International Rescue Committee, Executive Director of the American Council for Jewish Philanthropy. A friend t
 HARRIS-Lily H. Died peacefully December 2, 2002 at age 95. Lily was one of four children. Beloved mother of Jay and Ann. Loving sister of the late Myer Handler, a foreign correspondent at The New York Times, the late Leo Handler and the late Pearl Weisman. Cherished grandmother of Lisa, Che
 HERZ-Vivian D. Of Lauderhill, Florida, died peacefully at age 90 on Tuesday, December 3, 2002 after a very active, rich and rewarding life. Beloved wife of the late Alfred Herz. She is survived by her longtime companion Patrick Fiorillo; her niece and nephew Roger and Dale Winston; and grea
 KRAMER-Carol. In Tucson on December 3. Beloved daughter of the late Katherine and Aaron. Devoted aunt of Nora and Joanna Gordon. Treasured by her sister Laura Kramer and partner John Douard. A gifted teacher and extraordinary archaeologist. Cherished by friends and colleagues in New York, T
 MAGED-Ilona, on December 2, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Mor Hauerstock and the late David Maged. Loving mother of Tibor Hauerstock. She will be missed. Service today, December 4, 1:30PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 MAHONEY-Florence. The Board of Directors of Research!America honors the vast difference made by the life of Florence Mahoney, champion of the National Institutes of Health and federal funding for biomedical research. The success of her advocacy means extended life and health for millions of
 PANEYKO-Leonore Lane. Died peacefully on October 30 at the Princeton Medical Center after a brief illness, age 95. Born in Hampton, NH, she was a graduate of Dana Hall School and Smith College, class of '28. She was actively involved for her entire life in philanthropic work, following in t
 WISE-Ethel Pastan. We mourn the passing of the beloved mother of distinguished Board member of the Associated Camps, Harry H. Wise. Ms. Wise was Co-Founder and Director of Horizons for Youth Summer Camp. She will be missed by all. Donations in her memory may be made to Associated Camps, Inc
 BIEDERMAN-Jill Ann Richman. On December 3, 2002 at the tender age of 44, lost her long and valiant battle. She is survived by countless friends and grieving family. Her love of life and sweetness will be dearly missed. Service today 12pm at Riverside, 21 West Broad St., Mount Vernon, NY    
 BISTANY - Joanna. The members of the Board of Directors, Resident Shareholders and staff of 957 Lexington Avenue Corporation mourn the passing of their colleague, friend and neighbor. Her many years of dedicated service to the building earned her the respect and affection of all of her neig
 FURMAN-Gertrude. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 GRAYZEL-Estherann Fink, M.D. of Larchmont, NY died at home on December 4th. Beloved wife of Arthur, mother of Jonathan and wife Julia, Susan and husband Joseph, David and wife Courtney. Grandmother of Sarah, Rebecca, Miranda, Connor, David and Ben. Educated at the Latin School of Chicago, R
 HAMBURGER-Anna Matson. The Board of Directors and staff of the International Rescue Committee note with great sorrow the passing of our dear retired colleague, Anna Matson Hamburger. As a director of our operations in Europe for many years after World War II, Anna worked with energy, compas
 INDYKE-Paula. Died peacefully on November 30, 2002. Born in Brooklyn, NY; resident of Tamarac, Fl. Awarded educator in New York City public school system for over 30 years. Beloved mother of Jay and Barry, loving grandmother of Matthew and Ross, dear sister of Evelyn, Helen and Philip. Inte
 ORB-Phyllis McKee, 77, a Greenwich resident, died on December 4, 2002 at Greenwich Hospital. She died after a lengthy illness due to cancer. A native of New York City, Mrs. Orb was born on November 30, 1925, and was the daughter of the late C. Russell and Charlotte Feldmann. Mr. Feldmann wa
 ORTH-Myra D., Ph.D. on November 30, 2002. Beloved wife of William T. Orth. Loving Mom and Grandmother. Art historian and scholar of European manuscripts. She will be remembered with love.       
 PANEYKO-Leonore Lane. Died peacefully on October 30 at the Princeton Medical Center after a brief illness, age 95. Born in Hampton, NH, she was a graduate of Dana Hall School and Smith College, class of '28. She was actively involved for her entire life in philanthropic work, following in t
 VECSEY - May Spencer. Wife, mother, journalist, union activist. The family mourns the death of May Spencer Vecsey at 91, on December 4, 2002. However, we also celebrate her life and gallant struggle against Multiple Sclerosis. Born in England, she migrated with her family to the U.S. and li
 WARMS - Dorothy Glenz. Age 90. Died peacefully at home November 26, 2002. Survived by her daughters, Lisbeth Orgel (Charles) and Miggie Warms, and by her granddaughter, Sara A. Orgel, and grandson, Daniel Richard Orgel. Born July 31, 1912, Dorothy Warms was a graduate of Hunter College H.S.
 BRIGHT-Mary. The Museum of Modern Art notes with sadness the death of curtain maker Mary Bright. Ms. Bright worked closely with the Museum on several projects, including the curtains in the 2001 exhibition ''Mies in Berlin'' and those that hung in the Museum's restaurant, Sette MoMA. She wa
 COSTA-Rena. On December 5, 2002. Beloved sister of Trudy Gildin. Sister-in-law of Lotte Niwes and Mutl Gildin. Favorite aunt of Debi Gildin, Danny and Lisa Gildin, Vivien VanBuren and Raymond Costa. Special great aunt of Andrew Gildin and Caroline Costa. Cherished friend of many. Service Su
 FRIEDLANDER-Dr. Susan E. Died unexpectedly of complications related to pneumonia on December 4th, 2002. Beloved daughter of Shirley Friedlander and the late George Friedlander. Susan was treasured by her family, sister Merri and brother-inlaw Mitchell Gelbard, nephew Jonathan, niece Joanna 
 GENIS-Marjorie. 86. On December 4, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Harry Genis. Devoted mother of Susan and Owen Grossblatt, and Lisa and Larry Wilens. Beloved grandmother of Dana Grossblatt, Jodie Foster, Randie Sanford and Michael Wilens. Cherished great grandmother of Olivia, Shelby, Abbi
 GOTTHEINER-Trude Blanka. Age 87. Beloved sister and aunt died December 3, 2002. We and her many friends will miss her dearly.       
 ORB-Phyllis. The officers, members and staff of the Pawling Mountain Club mourn the passing of our fellow sportswoman and dear friend Phyllis. We extend our deepest condolences to John and her family. Philip Bonanno, Chairman Ronald Jeitz, President       
 Anna Hamburger, a longtime director of International Rescue Committee operations in Europe that aided refugees from Soviet bloc nations, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. She helped thousands of people who had fled Eastern Europe begin new lives in America.       
 COSTA-Rena. On December 5, 2002. Beloved sister of Trudy Gildin. Sister-in-law of Lotte Niwes and Mutl Gildin. Favorite aunt of Debi Gildin, Danny and Lisa Gildin, Vivien VanBuren and Raymond Costa. Special great aunt of Andrew Gildin and Caroline Costa. Cherished friend of many. Service Su
 ITZLER-Caroline. Devoted widow of David; mother of Ronald, Barbara Reback and Lois; grandmother of Elissa and Dave, Jane and David, Steven and Jason; greatgrandmother of Ryan and Julia; sister of Cynthia Minken. She is now with her beloved David after 68 years of marriage. She will be great
 MAYER-Joan K. On Dec. 4, 2002 of NYC. Wife of Glenn E. Mayer. Mother of Nancy T. Mayer of Bedminster. Visitation Sunday December 8, 2002 2-4 and 7-9 PM at the Bailey Funeral Home, 176 Main St, Peapack, NJ. Mass of the Resurrection will be held on Monday, December 9, 10 AM at St. Brigid Chur
 STRONACH-Judith Lee. The Board of Trustees and the staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of a generous Benefactor, Judith Lee Stronach. Together with her husband, Raymond Lifchez, Ms. Stronach generously supported many areas of the Museum's work, including educational pr
 VAN DINE-Isabel. During my years at the Children's Storefront School, Isabel was a source of astonishment and delight. She was a spirit. Ned O'Gorman, Head Ricardo O'Gorman Garde       
 BEYER-Renee. We are heartbroken at the loss of this most wonderful and selfless woman. A true woman of valor who was always ''there'' for her family and friends. We join the entire Beyer family in mourning their loss. Lori and Yale Paprin       
 COSTA-Rena. The Officers, members of the American and Global Boards of Trustees, faculty and staff of Bar-Ilan University in Israel, and the American Friends of Bar-Ilan, mourn with great sorrow the passing of one of the University's most generous benefactors, Rena Costa, founder of the Ren
 FREEMAN-Dorothy Bank. Born in NYC, December 10, 1910; died December 5, 2002, three days before her 92nd birthday. She loved life, and retained her essential qualities-keen intelligence, determination, optimism, loveuntil her last day on this earth. Dearly and deeply loved by her family: chi
 FRIEDMAN-Pesselle Gail. Formerly of Manhasset, NY, died December 7, 2002, in Canton, MA. Beloved wife of Alvin E. Friedman, devoted mother of Jeffrey F. Friedman and Joan M. Friedman, loving mother-in-law of Helen Finegold Friedman and Charles E. Blair III, and dear grandmother of Edward J.
 LOGUERCIO - Grace (nee Battaglia). Loving wife of the late Philip. Cherished mother of Marie Grace. Dear mother-in-law of George Drummond. Survived by her nieces and nephews. Grace will be remembered by her neighbors for her generosity and her volunteer work to the Greenpoint/Williamsburg c
 MANISCHEWITZ - E. Judy. With her high ideals, keen intellect and generosity, Judy dedicated her life to Judaism and noble causes. We will miss her. Shalom Zornberg Hadassah MANISCHEWITZ-Esther Judith, age 89. Beloved mother of Elaine Sorki of Israel, the late Ruchama Gass and Edith 
 OCHSHORN-Joan. On December 6, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Elliot Ochshorn. Cherished mother of Susan (Marc) and David (Allison), and grandmother of Sam, Eliza, Tessa, and Sarah. Friend and inspiration to all who knew and loved her. Her courage and spirit will remain with us forever.     
 PESLIKIS-Irene. Died November 28, 2002. One of the founders of the Women's Art Movement, she organized the first show of Second Wave Women Artists, taught the first college women and art course, and founded a feminist art school, The Feminist Art Institute. With Patricia Mainardi, she found
 RHOADES - Alice Maria Heye ''Fipsie''. Born April 16, 1927, in Germany died peacefully after a long illness on November 30, 2002, in Dallas, TX. She attended the Shipley School and Vassar College and lived in Dsseldorf, Germany, Den Haag, Holland, Clearwater, FL, Princeton, NJ, Lake Placid,
 ROUSSEAU-Elizabeth A. Of Somers, NY, formerly of NYC. Died on December 3, 2002 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, NY. She was 73 years old. She was born on October 23, 1929 in Boston, MA., to Louis and Margaret (Sinclair) Adamson. She was a manager for KLM Airlines in NYC and 
 SAMARTZIS-Anna Miltiadis, M.D. Of Larchmont, died tragically in a car accident on Friday, December 6, 2002. She was 40. Dr. Samartzis was born July 26, 1962, in Athens, Greece. After completing elementary and secondary schooling in Greece, Dr. Samartzis attended Marymount College and Hunter
 SCHWARTZ - Dorothy. Of Rockville Centre. Devoted wife of the late Louis. Beloved mother of Miriam and Oscar Alers, Barbara (deceased) and Harry Mahn, Carol Greenwald of Chevy Chase, and Edward Schwartz of Pasadena. Adored grandmother of nine and greatgrandmother of thirteen. Past President 
 SHAPIRO-Nettie Lerner. In her 100th year on December 5. Wife of the late Samuel Shapiro. Mourned by her loving sister Frances Wachs, devoted children Delle and Roger Protas, Susan Levine, Linda and Shelly Wengel, six adoring grandchildren and eight great - grandchildren. Services Sunday, De
 SPELKE-Estelle. Born in Englishtown, NJ, November 29, 1916, and was a wonderful part of our lives until November 21, 2002. Lived in Great Neck, NY, and then Tamarac, FL. Will be enormously missed by children Karen, Michele, Ken and grandchildren Robin, Tamara, Dawn and Pam, and so many whos
 STYLER-Pauline Apanowitz, 88. On November 26, 2002. Sister of Walter Bailin; stepsister of Sylvia Bogner; mother of Lori Styler and mother-in-law of Stephen Winer; aunt and cousin to: Steve, Marianne, Sophie-Louise, Marsha, Peter, Lenore, David, Ellen and Gordon; the Bailin, Berman, Browne,
 WASSERMAN-Nina, Ph.D. On December 5, 2002. Dear wife of Norman, mother of Gabriel and Jennifer, grandmother of Aram, Zamir, Chloe and Sasha. She was a dedicated and inspirational professor of education following a distinguished career in teaching and arts administration for the New York Cit
 WRIGHT-Mildred Gibson. Of Fairfield, CT, died on November 28, 2002 after a brief illness. A resident of Greenfield Hill, CT, Mrs. Wright was chairman of Wright Investors' Service and the School for Ethical Education founded by her late husband, John Winthrop Wright, inventor of the Wright P
 Aileen Fisher, who was the author of more than 100 books for children, died Dec. 2 at her home in Boulder, Colo. She was 96. Her works include stories, plays, poetry, biographies, adaptations, picture books and multimedia programs, many of them highly praised for their imaginative q
 Fay Gillis Wells, a pioneer aviator, a White House correspondent and a writer who covered Hollywood accompanied by her pet leopard, Snooks, died on Dec. 2 in Fairfax, Va. She was 94. She had last lived in Alexandria, Va., her son, Linton Wells II, said, but her life had many takeoff
 ABOODI-Victoria. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 ASPEGREN-Lois (nee Barstow). A woman of kindness, spirit and determination of New York City and Southampton, on December 6th after a long illness at age 91. Pre-deceased by her husband John B. Aspegren. Cherished mother of John Aspegren, Jr. and Theodora Aspegren Rabbe. Devoted grandmother 
 BASSETT-Helen R., 71. Died December 5, 2002 in Kingston, NY. Formerly of Manhattan and New Rochelle, she taught English at New Rochelle High School and Isaac Young Junior High School. Sister of Peg Tears and Suzanne Campbell. A celebration of her life will be conducted on her birthday in th
 BIGELOW - Sylvia Weld. (Mrs. Albert Smith.) December 2, in Cambridge, MA. She is survived by daughters, Lisa Bigelow Roberts, and Kate (Kitty) Bigelow Benton, both of NY, eight grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren. A memorial service will be held Sunday, December 15, at 1:00 pm in Th
 FRIEDMAN-Pesselle Gail. Formerly of Manhasset, NY, died December 7, 2002, in Canton, MA. Beloved wife of Alvin E. Friedman, devoted mother of Jeffrey F. Friedman and Joan M. Friedman, loving mother-in-law of Helen Finegold Friedman and Charles E. Blair III, and dear grandmother of Edward J.
 GARNER-Sybil. Loving and devoted wife of 52 years to Dr. Harvey Garner. Proud and nurturing mother of Dr. Steven (Dr. Anne) and Dr. Bruce (Alese). Adored grandmother of Hope, Eve, Benjamin and Kenny. She was the matriarch of our family and leaves a void which can never be filled. Her memory
 MARKS-Pearl. On December 7, 2002. Beloved Ayshet Chayil, married 56 years to Louis, devoted mother of Ellen and the late Dr. Arthur B. Lacher and Rhonda and Dr. Michael Gribetz, adored grandmother of Rebecca and Dr. Jonas Leibowitz, Dr. Jason and Rachel Lacher, Eric and Dr. Carin Gribetz, S
 NEUMAN de VEGVAR-Erna. 79, died unexpectedly on December 4, 2002. Born in Budapest, Hungary, she studied landscape architecture at the University of Wisconsin and the Rhode Island School of Design. She was predeceased by her husband Geza. She is survived by her brother Alfred, by her childr
 ROSEN-Sadie. 96 years, passed from this world on December 3, 2002. She arrived in America at 14 years of age, after a difficult childhood on a farm in Russia. She became a US citizen, and married her late husband Josef in 1924. She leaves behind a daughter and son-in-law (Lillian and Gene R
 SCHWARTZ - Dorothy. Of Rockville Centre. Devoted wife of the late Louis. Beloved mother of Miriam and Oscar Alers, Barbara (deceased) and Harry Mahn, Carol Greenwald of Chevy Chase, and Edward Schwartz of Pasadena. Adored grandmother of nine and greatgrandmother of thirteen. Past President 
 ABOODI-Victoria. Truly a woman of valor, beloved and cherished by all. Died on December 7, 2002. Deeply mourned by her four children, two daughters-in-law, eight grandchildren and thirteen great - grandchildren. Contributions can be made in her memory to: National Jewish Outreach, 989 6th A
 CLARK-Vallory Willis died at her home in Greenwich, CT on December 8, 2002. Beloved wife of Marshall Clark for 41 years, she is also survived by four children from her earlier marriage to Dr. Frank P. Shepard, Jr., who died in 1959; Richard S.W. Shepard of McLean, VA; Mrs. Katherine S. Grah
 COSTA-Rena. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Rena Costa, a cherished friend of the Jewish community in New York and in Israel, who expressed her devotion to social and humanitarian causes through exceptional philanthropy. We exte
 CUMMINGS-Genevieve. At age 93. Survived by her sisterin-law Marie Cummings and nephew Joseph J. Cummings Jr. and grand-nieces Kathleen and Colleen Sullivan. Beloved sister of the late Rev. William, Joseph, Mary and John Cummings. Retired from New York Life Insurance Company after 45 years o
 GARELIK-Eve (nee Kramer), of Chestnut Hill, MA, formerly of Belle Harbor, NY. Died peacefully on December 7, 2002 at the age of 94. Beloved wife of the late Nathan; devoted sister of Martha Horowitz and Jean Weiner; cherished mother of David Garelik and his wife Diane Diamondstein and Linda
 KRULWICH - Beatrice Sloane. Beloved wife of the late Irvin. Loving mother of Andrew, Jeffrey and the late Theodore. Cherished motherin-law of Linda. Adoring grandmother of Allison, Benjamin, Joshua, Michael, Thea Krulwich, and Jonathan, Jennifer and Andrew Pingle. Great grandmother of Jack,
 McSHARRY - Marianne D. (nee Duffy). On December 8, 2002. Beloved wife of the late John. Dear daughter of the late John and Mary Duffy. Loving sister of Donald, John, James, Daniel, and Thomas Duffy. Also survived by nine nieces and nephews. A graduate of St. Joseph's College, Brooklyn. Mari
 NEUMAN de VEGVAR-Erna. 79, died unexpectedly on December 4, 2002. Born in Budapest, Hungary, she studied landscape architecture at the University of Wisconsin and the Rhode Island School of Design. She was predeceased by her husband Geza. She is survived by her brother Alfred, by her childr
 WHITE-Valerie Joan. Beloved mother of Simon Greer, devoted sister of John White and the late Brian White. Lovingly married to Harold Goldes. An inspiration to the many who admired and loved her. Her indomitable spirit lives on. ServicesWednesday, 2 PM, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st an
 AZZATO - Margaret Jean, nee McCarthy, of Morristown, NJ on Monday, December 9, 2002 at home surrounded by her loved ones after a long, valiant battle with cancer. Margaret Jean is survived by her husband of 47 years, Louis, four children, Jean and her partner Mary of Bedminster, NJ, Patrici
 deVEGVAR-Erna Neuman. Cotswold Neighborhood Association, Scarsdale, N.Y., directors, note with great sorrow the sudden passing of its indefatigable Vice President and de facto ''mayor'' of Cotswold, Erna Neuman deVegvar. Her vigor and tireless community energy remain an inspiration to us al
 FEINBERG - Lillie Wise. Passed away on December 10, 2002 in Palm Beach, Fl. at age 94. Formerly a resident of NYC, originally from Savannah, Georgia. Beloved wife of the late Meyer Feinberg. Loving mother of Helen Weinstein and mother-in-law of Larry Weinstein. Dearest grandmother of Lisa L
 HOLTZMAN-Reva Fine. The Hunter College community notes with sorrow the passing of our devoted alumna and retired Professor of Social Work. Her contributions to Hunter are everlasting. Jennifer J. Raab, President, Hunter College, CUNY       
 LEVINE-Rose L., 81. Of Lakewood, NJ (formerly of Brooklyn, NY), died December 10th, 2002. Mrs. Levine spent her 25 plus year career with Central Rigging and Contracting Court, NY, NY and Milford, CT. She retired June 1983 as their CFO. Mrs. Levine was an active contributing member of Americ
 McSHARRY - Marianne D. (nee Duffy). On December 8, 2002. Beloved wife of the late John. Dear daughter of the late John and Mary Duffy. Loving sister of Donald, John, James, Daniel, and Thomas Duffy. Also survived by nine nieces and nephews. A graduate of St. Joseph's College, Brooklyn. Mari
 SACK-Miriam. Truly a woman of strength. Cherished and beloved wife of 64 years of Samuel Sack. Adored mother of Jules and Norma Sack, Pennie and Alan Meiselman, and Meryl and Sandy Silverstein. Loving grandmother of Mitchell and Suzy Sack, Nancy Sack, Amy and Gary Chatoff, Heather Meiselman
 STANKARD - Marian Han sen. Of Greenwich, CT, on December 9, 2002. Wife of John J. Stankard. Daughter of Harry Hansen, who was noted literary critic, journalist and historian. She was well known in the hiking clubs of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut for many years. She is also survived 
 BEHAR-Stella. Died December 10, two months after her 100th birthday, a strong, smart, feisty Sephardic woman. She is survived by her son Henry, predeceased by son Albert, widow of David, grandmother and greatgrandmother. She was loved by all. She had a keen sense of humor and made friends e
 BRESKIN-Pearl. Died December 8. Past President of Metropolitan WILPF. Founder of the Manhattan Forum. Loved and admired by her late husband Lester, her children Daniel, Lisa, Myrna, Claudia, Matthew, and grandsons Nicholas, John, Peter and Andrew. Memorial service Thursday, December 19 at R
 ELIASH-Zara. On December 9. Beloved wife of the late Leo. Loving daughter of the late Dr. and Mrs. Kagan. Cherished aunt of Isaac and Frances Suder and their children and grandchildren. Devoted friend of Gregory Z. Bukstein. Services Thursday, 11:30AM, at ''The Riverside,'', 76th St. and Am
 FEINBERG - Lillie Wise. Passed away on December 10, 2002 in Palm Beach, Fl. at age 94. Formerly a resident of NYC, originally from Savannah, Georgia. Beloved wife of the late Meyer Feinberg. Loving mother of Helen Weinstein and mother-in-law of Larry Weinstein. Dearest grandmother of Lisa L
 GOLDSTEIN-Gertrude. On December 11, 2002, Trustee of Sutton Place Synagogue, active volunteer and officer of B'nai Brith, Hadassah, AntiDefamation League and Technion. Retired Director of Payroll at CUNY Graduate School. Beloved mother of Susan Beth Goldstein, Robin Fuchsberg and the late R
 KLEIN-Diane Sbano. On December 10, 2002. Wife of Roger. Diane was a devoted artist and teacher. Service Friday, December 13, 2002, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn. NY. She smiled sweetly.       
 LENESS - Christine Gibbs. Died peacefully at home on December 9 in her 97th year. Wife of the late George J. Leness. She is survived by a sister Marion Galland, three sons, John, George and Anthony, six grandchildren, and seven great grandchildren. She was a graduate of Smith College and a 
 MacCAULEY - Sr. Rose Agnes. Sister Rose Agnes MacCauley (formerly Sr. Agnes Marie), beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, Convent of Mary the Queen, died Tuesday, Dec. 10, 2002. She is survived by several nieces & nephews. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark St, Yonkers, 
 MORAN - Rose Lyons. Passed away on December 4, 2002. A devoted teacher in the NYC School System for over 30 years, she was the wife of Harry Lyons and Edward Moran, both deceased, and the beloved mother of Irene Lyons Towbin and Daniel Lyons, mother-in-law of Judy Lyons, loving grandmother 
 SACK-Miriam. Truly a woman of strength. Cherished and beloved wife of 64 years of Samuel Sack. Adored mother of Jules and Norma Sack, Pennie and Alan Meiselman, and Meryl and Sandy Silverstein. Loving grandmother of Mitchell and Suzy Sack, Nancy Sack, Amy and Gary Chatoff, Heather Meiselman
 SWAN-Katharine Winthrop Blaine, 79. Died December 11 in Brunswick, Maine, surrounded by her family. She was predeceased in 2000 by her husband of 49 years, Eugene L. Swan, Jr.       
 EDGELL-Claudia (Kelty). Of Winchester, MA, fomrerly of Arlington, MA, and Cambridge, MA. December 8, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Stephen M. Edgell. Loving mother of Stephen M. III, of Winchester, MA. Dear sister of Diana Tulysewski of Canton, MA. Aunt of Rayna Tulysewski of Boston and Gl
 LANGER-Mary, 93, on December 11, 2002. Devoted, loving wife of Harry. Beloved mother of Carol and Wendi. Loving mother-in-law to Dr. Philip Moskowitz. Cherished grandmother of Craig, Lori and Peter and great-grandmother of Jacob, Eli and Jessica. Gentle and loving, she was the personificati
 MORAN - Rose Lyons. Passed away on December 4, 2002. A devoted teacher in the NYC School System for over 30 years, she was the wife of Harry Lyons and Edward Moran, both deceased, and the beloved mother of Irene Lyons Towbin and Daniel Lyons, mother-in-law of Judy Lyons, loving grandmother 
 SCHLEGER-Susan. Beloved wife of the late Hans. Devoted mother of Peter. Adored and adoring grandmother of Shane and Jesse. Dear sister of Kate Jellinek and her late husband Kurt. Loving aunt of their son Michael. Services private. Contributions may be made to the Museum of Jewish Heritage, 
 YOUNG-Ruth. Born July 13, 1905 in Lakewood, New Jersey. Passed away in Rockville, MD on December 12, 2002. She is survived by her devoted son Robert, adoring grandchildren Melissa, Debbie, Michael and Danny and loving great-granddaughter Emily. We will all cherish her memory. Services will 
 ABRAHAM-Lynne D. Died peacefully on December 12, 2002 at age 60 after a long and courageous battle with breast cancer. Loving sister of Jill Auerbach and Pamela Ashe, cherished aunt of Melissa and Lindsay and sister-in-law of Charles and Brad. Lynne fought bravely for her quality of life th
 CHEW-Constance DeWilde. 65, of Charlottesville, VA, died December 12, 2002, at her home. Born March 12, 1937, in Scranton, PA, she was the daughter of the late Frederick A. and Lucille Ferber DeWilde. She was a member of The Colony Club; Farmington Country Club and St. Paul's Episcopal Chur
 EDGELL-Claudia (Kelty). Of Winchester, MA, fomrerly of Arlington, MA, and Cambridge, MA. December 8, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Stephen M. Edgell. Loving mother of Stephen M. III, of Winchester, MA. Dear sister of Diana Tulysewski of Canton, MA. Aunt of Rayna Tulysewski of Boston and Gl
 FERMAN-Bernice. On December 11, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Robert Ferman, mother to Pam and Seth, mother-in-law to Nick and Miriam, and grandmother to Robbie, Jake, Samantha and Rae-four children who enjoyed an open invitation to her candy dishes. She was born to Max and Bluma Chariton 
 GARDNER-Madeline Capp. December 13, 2002. For 56 years, wife of Louis. mother of Tony (Carol) and Alexa (James Lesser). Grandmother of Marley and Adrien. Predeceased by brothers Al Capp, Jerry Capp and Elliott Caplin. Service Sunday,December 15, 3:30PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave
 O'BRIEN-Regina P. Went on to God December 11, 2002 at 79 years of age, in Tampa, Fl.; but orginally of Tuckahoe, New York. She was a former fashion designer for B. Altman & Company, and later renowned N.Y. fashion photographer. Survived by brother Monsignor William B. O'Brien. She was the d
 PATTERSON-Mary Marvin Breckinridge. On December 11, 2002 at her residence in Washington, D.C. Widow of Jefferson Patterson. Mother of Patricia M. Patterson and grandmother of Ian Patterson. Predeceased by her son Mark J. Patterson. A memorial service will be held at the National Cathedral o
 WEINTRAUB-Molly B. December 12 at age 88. Devoted wife of the late Jules Weintraub and mother of the late Leslie Mirrin; loving sister to her late sisters and brothers, Claire B. Aaron, Tillie Rifkin, Fanny Schulman, Norman Bushan, and William Rifkin. She is survived by her nieces and nephe
 Lynne D. Abraham, a founder of the New York Race for the Cure and the Greater New York City Affiliate of the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 60. The cause was breast cancer, which she had for 12 years, her family said.     
 ABRAHAM-Lynne D. Died peacefully on December 12, 2002 at age 60 after a long and courageous battle with breast cancer. Loving sister of Jill Auerbach and Pamela Ashe, cherished aunt of Melissa and Lindsay and sister-in-law of Charles and Brad. Lynne fought bravely for her quality of life th
 ALEXANDRE-Denyse Halbron. Longtime resident of her cherished New York died peacefully in Connecticut, on December 14, 2002. Born October 7, 1907, in Paris. Loving mother of her devoted son Gilbert and daughter-in-law Julie. Grandmother of Daryl and Philippe. Great-grandmother of Katie, Turn
 BRUMBERG - Pamela W. Died peacefully, surrounded by her loved ones, on December 14, at age 60, after a long, courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. Loving wife for 35 years to Stephan F. Brumberg; adoring mother to Rachel and Joshua Brumberg; devoted daughter to Sidney Ween and the late 
 DUBE-Marianne. Died in Los Angeles on December 7, 2002 of natural causes. She is survived by her son John Bollinger and granddaughter Zoe. She had an illustrious career in advertising and was a true New Yorker who accomplished everything she set out to and then some.       
 ERB-Gladys. December 9, 2002. Resident of New York. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Tuesday, December 17, 10 AM at St. Joseph's Church, 404 East 87th Street. Interment to follow at Calvary Cemetery. For further information call the Abbey Funeral Home, 212-28
 MELTZER-Carol. Of Massapequa Park, on December 14, 2002, of breast cancer. Devoted mother to Alison and Danielle. Loving wife of the late Dr. Steven Meltzer and beloved sister of Bruce Kauderer. Her friendship, warm humor and generosity will be remembered by the many people whose lives she 
 O'BRIEN-Regina P. Went on to God December 11, 2002 at 79 years of age, in Tampa, Fl.; but orginally of Tuckahoe, New York. She was a former fashion designer for B. Altman & Company, and later renowned N.Y. fashion photographer. Survived by brother Monsignor William B. O'Brien. She was the d
 SAMUELS-Kathryn Morris, 39. Of Atlantic Beach, NY, died Friday, Dec. 6, 2002 at Lenox Hill Hospital after a sudden illness. KT was a graduate of Tulane University. She was the founding partner of Morris & Partners, a NYbased marketing communications firm. She is survived by her husband Stev
 SCHWARTZ-Karen Sue (nee Schneider). 61, on December 11, 2002. A retired New York City schoolteacher, she is survived by mother Lillian Schneider of Sunrise, FL, brother Dr. Neil (Marianne) Schneider of Miami, FL, nieces Elaine (Steven) Rovner, Susan Schneider, Barbara (David) Hollander and 
 SMITH-Florence Bolton, 96. Of Palm Beach, FL, died Sunday, December 8th, 2002. In addition to clubs in Palm Beach, FL, Mrs. Smith was a member of the Colony Club of NY, NY, the Greenwich Country Club of Greenwich, CT, and the Marks Club of London. She is survived by her daughter, Kirby S. G
 SOLTANITZKY-Deborah. In loving memory of our Deborah Soltanitzky who died on December 11, at 103 years old. Born in 1899 in Reni, Russia, she came to New York City in 1941. She was a devoted worker for Hadassah, mother of Natalie Redel and Jacques Solta. Lover of opera and matriarch of her 
 SPRUNG-Peggy. Age 101, had countless friends of all generations who she was not ready to leave. Her last words were ''wait a second''.       
 DeJUR-Frances. May 27, 1898 - December 21, 1972. Mother and grandmother. In sweet memory of her unconditional love, her unwavering devotion and her gentle strength. Loved and remembered with eternal gratitude. The Family       
 Florence Stephenson Mahoney, an unwavering advocate for national health research and programs, died on Nov. 29 at her home in Washington. She was 103. Working with the philanthropist Mary Woodard Lasker, Mrs. Mahoney was instrumental in the growth of the National Institutes of Healt
 Mieke van Hoek, a Dutch-born modern-dance choreographer and teacher, died on Nov. 13 in Manhattan. She was 56 and lived in Manhattan and Cañones, N.M. The cause was complications from a stroke, her family said. Trained in the Netherlands, Ms. van Hoek taught choreography an
 ALEXANDRE-Denyse Halbron. Longtime resident of her cherished New York died peacefully in Connecticut, on December 14, 2002. Born October 7, 1907, in Paris. Loving mother of her devoted son Gilbert and daughter-in-law Julie. Grandmother of Daryl and Philippe. Great-grandmother of Katie, Turn
 BRUMBERG - Pamela W. Our deepest condolences to the family of Pamela Ween Brumberg, who served as our most valued Program Director and friend for many years. May her memory be blessed. The Directors and Officers of the Lucius N. Littauer Foundation BRUMBERG-Pamela. Park East Synagog
 ERB-Gladys. December 9, 2002. Resident of New York. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Tuesday, December 17, 10 AM at St. Joseph's Church, 404 East 87th Street. Interment to follow at Calvary Cemetery. For further information call the Abbey Funeral Home, 212-28
 FRIEDMAN-Naomi Parker. Passed away on Friday, December 13, 2002, in Florida, after a long battle with cancer. She was 65. She was the daughter of Raymond and Clara Winarick Parker. She is survived by her loving husband of 40 years Dr. Harold Friedman, three children Rebecca and Micah Friedm
 GINSBURG-Cora K. Died peacefully at her home in New York, December 12, 2002, age 92. She is survived by her three children and two grandchildren. A memorial service is planned for early next year. Donations can be made to the New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.       
 HALL-Virginia S. ''Gina.'' Of Yarmouthport, MA, formerly of New York City, December 12, 2002, age 74. She is survived by her two sisters, Alice van Buren of Harwichport, MA, and Anne H. Smith of Woods Hole, MA, her companion, Ted Gautschi of Yarmouthport, MA, and several nieces and nephews.
 KLEIMAN-Erna. Born January 25, 1899 died peacefully at her home on December 15. Loving mother of Rhoda, Irving, Ora and David. Beloved grandmother and greatgrandmother. Member of Hadassah for 65 years. Generous to all in need. Her smile gave pleasure to all. She danced at the Social Adult D
 MOYSE - Charlotte. The Board of Governors and members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Charlotte Moyse. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Mac, and their family. Richard Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secreta
 MULHALL-Elise Davis. 81. Of Garden City, NY, passed away December 14, 2002. Her husband of 56 years, William F., passed away on August 27, 1998. She is survived by daughter Ellen Morrell, sons John and Jeffrey, ten grandchildren. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Ave at 12th St, Ga
 TOLMAGE-Pauline (Dichter). Age 93, on December 13, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Cherished aunt, great-aunt and great-greataunt. Longtime devoted employee of the Board of Examiners of the New York City Board of Education. Lifelong New York resident and lover of the arts. Interment 
 WINER-Barbara K. On December 15, 2002, at age 74. She is survived by her children Nancy Blank, Jeri Drucker and Jeffrey G. Lewine, her daughter-in-law Darlene Lewine and sons-in-law Robert S. Blank and Mitchel R. Drucker, her grandchildren Wendy, Sam, Matthew, Lee, Katie and Jennifer, her g
 BJORNSON-Maria. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the untimely death of Maria Bjornson, who designed the sets for our new production of Berlioz's ''Les Troyens,'' which premiers in February. A remarkably talented and creative designer, Maria was also a dedicated professional who had become a de
 BLECHMAN - Oscar. Died peacefully on Dec. 14, 2002. Beloved husband of Zelda (Blumberg). Adored father, grandfather, great grandfather. Services on Wednesday, December 18th, at 10:30 A.M., at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, Great Neck, NY. BLECHMAN - Oscar. The Jewish Center of the 
 BRUMBERG-Pamela Ween. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of our cherished friend Pamela Ween Brumberg. She was the program officer of the Lucius N. Littauer Foundation, a major supporter of our work in New York and in Israel. We exten
 CAROLINE-Dr. Nancy. The National Board of Directors and the Membership of American Red Magen David for Israel record with profound sorrow the passing of Dr. Nancy Caroline in Metulla, Israel. An expert in emergency medical care, she was the pioneer who organized and taught the MDA-Magen Dav
 FISCHLER-Laura. Beloved wife of Ed, loving mother of Jacklyn and Mark Kaufer, Mark and Jacqueline Fischler, and Richard Fischler. Beloved grandmother of Eric and Janna Kaufer, and Matthew and Raquel Fischler. Sister of Fran Feldman and Joel Tendler. She was a successful womens' couture desi
 GINSBURG-Cora K. Died peacefully at her home in New York, December 12, 2002, age 92. She is survived by her three children and two grandchildren. A memorial service is planned for early next year. Donations can be made to the New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. GINSBURG-Cora. With d
 KRUGMAN - Sylvia Stern. Aged 90, widow of Saul Krugman, MD, on December 14, 2002. Beloved mother of Richard, Carol and daugher-in-law Mary. Grandmother of Scott, Joshua, Todd, Jordan and great-grandmother of Daniel, Ryan and Jack. A woman of extraordinary warmth, intellect and generosity wh
 LITKE-Sally. Mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. ''The last of the seven sisters'', she was loved and will be missed. Marilyn and Bennett and Joan and Family       
 MESSINGER-Jerome. Loving and beloved husband of Gladys. Devoted father of Lynda and Barry and Michael. Cherished grandfather of Mitchell and Michelle, Samuel and Ali, Erica and Ari. Loving brother of Lee and Joan. Dear brother-in-law of Harold and Edith. Funeral services Tuesday, 12:45 PM, 
 TAUB-Shirley, 73. Died on December 15, 2002 after a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. Beloved wife of Jesse, devoted mother of Cathy and Robert, mother-inlaw of Yolanda and Lowell, and grandmother of Sarah, Andrew, Oliver, and Julian. Quick to smile and laugh, respected businesswoma
 WINER-Barbara K. On December 15, 2002, at age 74. She is survived by her children Nancy Blank, Jeri Drucker and Jeffrey G. Lewine, her daughter-in-law Darlene Lewine and sons-in-law Robert S. Blank and Mitchel R. Drucker, her grandchildren Wendy, Sam, Matthew, Lee, Katie and Jennifer, her g
 Dolly Dawn, a big-band vocalist whose honey-sweet voice each noon, six days a week, bounced invitingly across America in the late 1930's and early 40's, died last Wednesday at a nursing home in Englewood, N.J. She was 86. Her death was announced this week by her family. She 
 BRUMBERG-Pamela. DOROT mourns the loss of a visionary friend who, through the Littauer Foundation, helped create the Judaic studies division of our University Without Walls program for homebound seniors and enabled us to establish the DOROT Fellowship Program in service of the elderly. Her 
 FISCHLER - Laura. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and longtime member Laura Fischler. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 FISHER-Sheila Rose. On December 16, 2002 at age 53. Beloved wife of Ronald Cohen. Cherished mother of Aaron and Max Fisher-Cohen. Loving daughter of Harriet and Bernard Fisher. Darling sister of Maralyn Fisher and Carol Ganz. Her beautiful spirit was an inspiration to all who knew her. Serv
 FREEDGOOD - Anne, 85. Widely known editor in American and British publishing circles, died December 15th in Amherst, MA of complications from Alzheimer's Disease. A senior editor at Random House among other publishers, Freedgood was passionate about her work, loved to discover new talent, a
 KLAW-Barbara. Born Sept. 17, 1920 in New York City. Died December 14, 2002 at her home in West Cornwall, Connecticut after a long and wonderful life. Beloved wife of Spencer Klaw, mother of Joanna, Susan, Rebecca and Margaret, and grandmother of nine. A memorial gathering will be held in th
 NEISLOSS-Irma. Suddenly, our world will not be the same. Our magnificent friend Irma has passed away. She leaves her legacy of love, giving, deep caring, devotion and her wonderful family, Susan, Kathy and Richard, James and Alison, and their children. They are a standard for all. We grieve
 NOVOGRODSKY - Sarah. Died peacefully in her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Solomon. loving mother of Esther Greenberg, David Novogrodsky, Leah and Alex Moskovits. Devoted grandmother of Francine, Jessica and Ricky, Benjamin and Ruth, Ellen and Stephanie, Seth, Hillel and Abigail, Aviv
 PARKER - Carol (nee Krown). Our woman of valor and courage left us on December 17, 2002. Cherished wife of Colin. Loved by her daughters Robin Kilheeney and Jamie (Roseman) Mills and son's-in-law John Kilheeney and Brian Mills, sister Lynn Krown Restler and brother Jordan Krown, forever fri
 SEIDMANN-Sharon Norry. The Board and staff of the National Foundation for Jewish Culture mourn the passing of Sharon Norry Seidmann, a loving friend and devoted Board member. As an artist and communal leader, Sharon was committed to the enrichment of Jewish life in Rochester, across the Uni
 SHEA-Catherine Carnese. Of Burlington, Vermont, formerly of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, died December 15, 2002 in Burlington, Vermont. She was born to the late Angelo and Anna (McCarthy) Carnese on August 23, 1922 in New York City. She graduated from St. Francis Xavier Academy in 1940, St. Vincent
 SILBERT-Barbara Bert. Formerly of New York City, passed away on Monday, December 16, 2002 in Boca Raton, Fla. Beloved sister of Roslyn, adored aunt of Dale and Alan and her great nieces and nephews. Services at Plaza Funeral Home, 91st Street and Amsterdam Ave, Wednesday, December 18th at 1
 STARR-Mary Belle. On December 10, 2002. Loving wife of the late Louis M. Starr. Devoted mother and grandmother, dynamic and engaging woman. M.B. loved politics, history, journalism, good causes and fishing. She cherished friends, family and the joy of life. Memorial 2PM December 21st, Wee B
 BARRON - Edythe (nee Cook). Age 93, of Pembroke Pines, FL, on December 16, 2002. Prior to Florida, lived in Patchogue, LI, had a private business with late husband Ben Barron, active in Hadassah as President of her local chapter, continued in various positions with Hadassah, and was a Life 
 BOTWINICK-Bessie nee Kaplan. Died peacefully last night, December 17th, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Botwinick. Loving mother of Edward Botwinick and Elaine Wolfensohn. Cherished grandmother of Sara, Naomi, Adam, Andrew and Eric. She will be remembered for her devotion to her hus
 DUBIN-Claire, 85 years old. Died on December 17, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Devoted mother of Richard, and Madeline and Leslie Strong. Cherished grandmother, great-grandmother and aunt. Her struggle is over. She will be missed.       
 FEINBERG-Mimi L. Of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Yonkers. Beloved wife of the late Nathaniel J. Feinberg, loving mother of Stephen and the late Roberta Jane Sloate, adoring grandmother of Penny and Paul, Pamela, Suzanne and Jon, Jonathan, Kimberly and Barry, devoted great grandmother. A gene
 GREENHALL - Elizabeth Rusk. Peacefully in her NYC apartment on December 14, 2002, age 87. Wife of the late Arthur. Mother of Alice and Paul. Grandmother of Michael. Viewing Friday, 7-9 PM, at Redden Funeral Home, 325 W. 14 St, NYC.       
 HUMBERT-Julia Biow. April 9, 1904-December 17, 2002. Predeceased by her husband Melville Humbert. Loving mother of Betty Estersohn and Susan Zuch, loving grandmother of Jennifer Zuch Gennardo, Pieter Estersohn and Matthew Zuch, loving great-grandmother of Phoebe Gennardo and Natasha Zuch.  
 KATZ-Selma N. (nee Drellich), 97, beloved wife of the late Herman. Graduate of Hunter College High School and Hunter College, class of 1926. Taught at De Witt Clinton High School. Mourned by many nieces and nephews. Services, 11:30AM, December 20, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th
 KATZKI-Kate, died peacefully in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Katzki and devoted mother of the late Marian Katzki. Her distinguished career spanned a lifetime of achievement including: Country Director, American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee. United Nations Represent
 MARMER-Dorothy. Passed away on December 17, 2002. She was 89 years old. Beloved wife of the late Irving Marmer, adored mother of Marlene Siff and Gail Gans, and loving grandmother of Brad, Brian, Daniel and Jonathan and her four great-grandsons Jordan, Noah, Adam and Jackson. This beautiful
 NEISLOSS-Irma. Suddenly, our world will not be the same. Our magnificent friend Irma has passed away. She leaves her legacy of love, giving, deep caring, devotion and her wonderful family, Susan, Kathy and Richard, James and Alison, and their children. They are a standard for all. We grieve
 SANDERSON-Shirley ''Sandy'' on December 18, 2002 of Boca Raton, FL. Survived by sister, Irma, brothers Milton, the late Marvin. She will be dearly missed. We love you.       
 SELKIRK-Jo'Ann. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Greater New York City Affiliate of the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation deeply mourn the passing of our cherished friend and president, Jo'Ann Selkirk. Her tireless dedication and enthusiasm touched the lives of thousands and le
 ALBERTS-Cheri. Park East Synagogue mourns the untimely passing of our devoted member and former parent in our Day and Religious Schools, Cheri Alberts, beloved wife of Dr. Richard and mother of Jackson, Marguerite and Henry. Shocked and saddened, we fondly recall her warmth, creativity, and
 BOTWINICK-Bessie. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Bessie Botwinick, beloved mother of Elaine Wolfensohn and a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Bessie and her late husband, Benjamin, expressed their devotion to the Jewish comm
 CHUDNOFF-Alma in her 88th year on December 19. Beloved wife of David. Devoted mother of Helene and Marvin and the late Barry. Cherished grandmother of Alexander, Samuel and Elijah. She will be remembered as she was. Beautiful, gentle and good.       
 GUYLAY-Beatrice. On December 18, 2002 of Roslyn Heights, NY. Beloved wife of the late L. Richard Guylay. Loving mother of Wesley Guylay and Joyce GreenWirth. Cherished grandmother of Sandra, Brooke, Jeffrey, Lee and Laurance. Dear great-grandmother of Griffin, Elena, Rachael and Nicholas. F
 HALPERIN-MITCHELLFannie. in her 99th year. Survived by David and Gayle and Edward and Beth and grandchildren Samara, Ilana, Maia, Alexander, Anna, and Anthony. She was a graduate of Columbia University School of Business and for many years was a teacher. For shiva information call 212-799-3
 MANACHER-Hannah. December 18, 2002. Beloved wife of the late M. Duke Manacher. Devoted mother of Gail Ginsberg and her husband Arnold and Gary Manacher and his wife Renee. Cherished grandmother of Kathy, Adam, Billy, Leigh and Justin, and great-grandmother of Benjamin. Loving sister of Nata
 NEISLOSS-Irma. The faculty and staff of the Schneider Children's Hospital in New Hyde Park, note with profound sadness, the passing of Irma Neisloss. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her children, grandchildren and extended family. Mrs. Neisloss will be warmly remembered for her gener
 RAGLAND - Thelma. The Board of Directors, staff, participants, members and friends of The Association for the Help of Retarded Children convey their deepest regret at the passing of Thelma Ragland, longtime member of the Association, Board member, parent, and Chair of our Brooklyn division.
 SMITH-Margaret H., ''Peg'', resident of RiverWoods at Exeter, NH died peacefully in her sleep December 8, 2002 at age 90. Peg was born in South Orange, NJ where she and her husband Cornelius H. Smith lived until retiring to Dorset, VT. She is survived by one son, two daughters, five grandch
 THOMPSON - Margaret C. Miller, 88, daughter of William and Helen Miller of Sewickley, PA, died December 17th in Bedford, Mass. She is survived by her three children, Peggy Striegel of Okla., Sally Steele of Mass., and Robert Thompson of VT; six grandchildren; and three greatgrandchildren. D
 Lucy Grealy, the poet and essayist who wrote a noted 1994 memoir, ''Autobiography of a Face,'' about her experience growing up with extreme facial disfigurement and repeated surgery to repair it, died at a friend's house in Manhattan on Wednesday night. She was 39. No cause of death
 ENGLEMAN-Claire Scheib. Of West Hartford, CT, formerly of Avon, CT, Coconut Creek, FL, and NYC, died on December 20, 2002. She was predeceased by her husband of 60 years, Joseph M. Engleman. She is survived by her sister, Lillian Schertzer; her children, Caryl and Michael Kligfeld and Nancy
 LICHTER-Lynne (nee Soldyn). Loving wife of Marc. Adoring mother to Gillian. Devoted sister to Ed Soldyn. On December 19. Filled with courage, strength and love. She will forever be missed and adored.       
 McLAUGHLIN - Cassarene. The Board, Members Advisory Council and staff of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies are deeply saddened by the loss of Mrs. Cassarene R. McLaughlin, beloved mother of our Executive Director/CEO, Megan E. McLaughlin. She set an extraordinary example of phil
 SECUNDY - Marian Gray. Vassar College is saddened by the death of Marian Gray Secundy, an alumna from the Class of 1960 and a trustee of the College from 1971-1983. Vassar benefited greatly from her deep intellect and fair consideration of issues, her humanity, and her strong advocacy on be
 Maria Bjornson, a designer of sets and costumes for opera, theater and ballet, died at her home in London on Dec. 13. She was 53. While acclaimed for her designs for ''Phantom of the Opera,'' for which she won two Tony Awards in 1988, she was mainly active in noncommercial theater. 
 CRYSTALL-Ellen. 52, on December 16, 2002. She lived in Hackettstown, NJ, formerly of New Milford, NJ. Survived by her mother, two sisters, and two nieces. Donations to Association of Cancer Online Resources, 173 Duane St, Suite 3A, New York, NY 10013-3334; www.acor.org.       
 ENGELSON - Beatrice. (Grandma BB). September 14, 1916-December 20, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Ruby, loving mother of Sheila, Al, Donna, Mel, Tina, Larry. Grandmother of Alyson, Eric, Jeffrey, Bobby, Hannah, Robyn, Halley, Casey, Ashley and Rikki. Great-grandmother of Matthew, Darren, Br
 GORN-Janice. On December 18, 2002. Wife of the late Albert Gorn. She was a retired professor, N.Y.U. She is survived by her sister Pauline Fine and nephews Paul Fine and Bill Gorn. A memorial service will be announced.       
 LAPE-Eve B. December 20, 2002, in New York. Beloved wife and helpmate of Bob Lape, sister of Carole Kulok and Joy Bergman, stepmother of Debra Lape, Bob Lape, Alida Lape-Peters, and Douglas Lape, aunt of Sam and Barney Kulok. The daughter of the late Barnett and Sarah Bergman, Eve was born 
 MANACHER-Hannah. December 18, 2002. Beloved wife of the late M. Duke Manacher. Devoted mother of Gail Ginsberg and her husband Arnold and Gary Manacher and his wife Renee. Cherished grandmother of Kathy, Adam, Billy, Leigh and Justin, and great-grandmother of Benjamin. Loving sister of Nata
 NEISLOSS-Irma. Suddenly, our world will not be the same. Our magnificent friend Irma has passed away. She leaves her legacy of love, giving, deep caring, devotion and her wonderful family, Susan, Kathy and Richard, James and Alison, and their children. They are a standard for all. We grieve
 RYAN-Mary Leona (Lee) nee Muir. On December 17, 2002 at age 63 in Boise, Idaho. after 12 years a victim of early-onset Alzheimer's Disease. She leaves her loving husband Tim, of NBC Sports; daughter Kimberley, son Kevin and daughter-in-law Sylvie, all of Boise; son Jay, of Miami, Florida; s
 SCHOTTENFELD - Roslyn. Former wife of Lewis Schottenfeld, MD, died December 20 from complications of heart disease. Services to be held near her home in Hollywood, FL. She is survived by her daughter Rita of Newport News, VA, and her son Mark and his wife Roseanna of Basking Ridge, NJ, and 
 WEINTRAUB - Suzanne (Sue). December 17, 1931-December 17, 2002. Died heroically and gracefully after living with cancer for eight years. Widow of Robert E. Weintraub. Loved by Jody, Scott, Robin, Penny, June and many, many others. Her wise and wondrous light burns brightly in all of us. In 
 Mary Marvin Breckinridge Patterson, a New York debutante, photojournalist and broadcaster from war-torn Europe, peripatetic diplomatic spouse and philanthropist, died on Dec. 11 at her home in Washington. She was 97. Mrs. Patterson was born in New York to John Cabell and Isabella Go
 DAMAST-Goldie. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President       
 FORBATH-Pauline. Born February 12, 1924, in Pretoria, South Africa, she came to the United States in 1941 and went to NYU and Columbia. Living in International House at Columbia, she met Thomas P. Forbath, to whom she was happily married for fifty seven years. She was a generous and loving 
 McLAUGHLIN - Betty (Bi tros). Suffered a stroke and died suddenly in a hospital near her home in Tarpon Srings, FL, on November 14. Preceded in death by her husband Joseph McLaughlin, first husband Spiros Bitros and daughter-in-law Mara Bitros, and her brothers Monty Nickas and Nick Nickas.
 SECHER-Gloria F. Beloved and devoted wife of Murray, cherished and adored mother of Andy. Much loved sister to Charles Falk and the late Milton and Arthur. Revered by nieces and nephews, grandnieces and nephews, and great-grandnieces and nephews. Leaves hosts of friends from a life filled w
 SIMS-Rena J. At the age of 88. Mrs. Sims was born on June 20, 1914, in Springfield, MA. A graduate of Wellesley College, she married Herbert J. Sims shortly thereafter. She was the proud mother of William B. Sims and loving grandmother to Elizabeth and Amanda. During the last three years sh
 SONNENBERG-Elynor Juliet (76). December 22, 2002. Beloved wife of Kenneth, devoted mother of Barton (Cynthia), Diane (Grady), Michael (Carol). Cherished grandmother of Dina, Marc, Danielle, Rochelle, Matthew and Lauren. Loving sister of Harriet. She was an angel on Earth. Everyone who knew 
 CAROL ENSEKI, president of the Brooklyn Children's Museum, is an island of tranquillity in the sunny bedlam of a little building that echoes with the din of ecstatic children. She chooses words precisely. She utters them with preternatural calm. Her gentle delivery is so deadpan that it tak
 COOK-Harriette Sturgis. Age 87. On December 22, 2002 at her home in St. James, N.Y. Survived by sister Diana Sturgis Schoonover, children Karl Adams III, Appleton Adams, Joseph W. Adams, Lawrence D. Rockwell Jr., Norman S. Rockwell, Diana Rockwell Anderson and stepson Stephen A. Cook. Also 
 GOLDFARB-Naomi (Sarlat). Of MA, formerly of CT, on Monday, December 23, 2002. Wife of Milton H. Goldfarb. Mother of Alicia G. Law of VT and Diana Goldfarb and her partner Don Sharp of MA. Grandmother of Kira and Alexander Law and David and Eli Goldfarb. Sister of Arthur Sarlat and the late 
 SCHWARTZ-Judith G. Died peacefully in her home on December 23. Wife of the late Harold Schwartz. Beloved mother of Moshe Schwartz and Deborah Freedman. Adored grandmother. Cherished sister of Jack Goldberg and sister-in-law of Marion Gelbart. Loved and admired by all her nieces, nephews, fr
 FLUG-Fortunee nee Husney. Mother, you brought me into this world and gave me the warmest welcome a son could have been given. You were by my side for the good times and the bad times. Nothing was ever too much for you. I watched you struggle for quite a few years. Finally it was just too di
 GABRILOVE-Hilda. We mourn the loss of a great lady. Her wisdom, humor and insight brightened our lives. With love to Lester, Sandra and Janice. Alice & Alex Kirschenbaum       
 GORDON - Anna Gagliano. On December 23, 2002. Beloved wife of the late David. Loving mother of Mary Gordon. Cherished grandmother of Anna and David Gordon Cash. Mass of Christian Burial on Saturday at Corpus Christi Church, 9:30AM. In lieu of flowers donations in her memory to the abbey of 
 LEDERER - Catherine (Di Fiore), wife of the late Robert Lederer. Survived by her devoted children Elisa G. Lederer and Susan Novick, Robert and Eileen Lederer. Also survived by her three beloved grandchildren and one greatgranddaughter.       
 ACREE-Anne. Of Geneva, NY, former Geneva Headstart Director, died on December 21 at age 59. She was the wife of Terry Acree, a professor at Cornell and daughter of Ed and Nell Glass. Her brother Ted and sister-in-law Debra Glass live in NYC. A memorial service will be held Saturday, Decembe
 BEAN-Betty Randolph. On December 19, 2002 after a long illness. Survived by her daughter Kate Randolph Kubert, Bruce Clark Kubert and his wife Kathleen, her grandson Joseph Kubert, a sister Nancy Bean Hector, eight nieces and nephews, and the father of her children, Bruce Lee Kubert. She wa
 BEGELL-Alissa Maya. On December 25th, 2002, in Los Angeles, California. Beloved daughter of William and Esther Begell and her late brother Frederick. Dear niece, granddaughter and cousin of J. and E. Anaya and C. Kessler. Cherished friend of Linda Ruffer and many, many others throughout the
 FISH-Alice G. December 24, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Leo and dear sister of Irene G. Berzon and the late Lillian G. Bauer. She is survived by her stepdaughter, Pat F. Tekulsky, grandchildren Jo Ann MacKenzie, J.D. Southard and Mathew and Michael Tekulsky as well as nephew, Peter Bauer.
 FLUG-Fortunee nee Husney. Mother, you brought me into this world and gave me the warmest welcome a son could have been given. You were by my side for the good times and the bad times. Nothing was ever too much for you. I watched you struggle for quite a few years. Finally it was just too di
 GABRILOVE-Hilda Weiss. Courageously succumbed in her 76th year after a brief struggle with cancer. A caring, compassionate, beautiful, wise and gracious woman of impeccable taste and discernment, her life was a joy and blessing to her family and those who knew her. An accomplished artist, s
 LAMBERT-Marion L. On December 26, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Henry A. Lambert and Benjamin V. Lambert. Fun loving grandmother of Alexa, Lauren and Hilary. Great-grandmother of Jack, Max and Grace. Sister of the late Dorothy Masius. Funeral service private. Contri
 MALTZ-Ann. Passed away peacefully on December 24, 2002 in Boca Raton, Florida after a long illness. Her loving husband Albert and her adoring children Debra Goldberg and Richard Maltz were at her side. She leaves a legacy of love and kindness to them and to her grandchildren Lauren, Peter, 
 ROTTENBERG-Reba. A life long resident of Manhattan, died on December 26, 2002. She was born on April 14, 1912 to Nathan and Lena Isaacson. She was a gifted and prolific artist, and a committed patron of the Society for the Advancement of Judaism and the Lucy Moses School. She was also a fou
 SLOBODKIN-Rose, 95. Died Monday in Plantation, FL. Born in Brooklyn, daughter of Max and Rose Kapelner, wife of the late Dr. Morris Slobodkin. She leaves two sons, Marc and Stephen. Burial Sunday at Beth Israel Cemetery in Woodbridge, NJ.       
 SOCOLOW-Sylvia C., 88. Fifty year resident of White Plains, died on Wednesday, December 25. Beloved wife of Milton. Sylvia graduated from Adelphi College, Garden City, Long Island. She had been a social worker for the New York City Department of Social Services and taught English as a Secon
 VARTANIAN-Nora, 69. Of Long Branch, NJ on December 22, 2002. Visiting 7-9PM Sunday at the Fiore Funeral Home, 882 Broadway, West Long Branch, NJ. Funeral service 10:30AM, Monday at St. Stepanos Armenian Church, 1184 Ocean Avenue, Long Branch. Donations in her memory may be made to St. Stepa
 Anne Fremantle, a British-born author, art critic, essayist and editor whose conversion to Roman Catholicism drew her to themes of faith and the saints, died on Thursday in London. She was 93 and had returned to Britain after nearly 50 years in Manhattan. Mrs. Fremantle was known in
 Margaret Taylor Hancock, whose many-hued family tree sprang to life in a book by her daughter that became a meditation on the meaning of race in America, died on Tuesday in Branford, Conn. She was 90 and lived in North Haven. Mrs. Hancock was the product of a multiracial, multi-ethn
 BEGELL-Alissa Maya. On December 25th, 2002, in Los Angeles, California. Beloved daughter of William and Esther Begell and her late brother Frederick. Dear niece, granddaughter and cousin of J. and E. Anaya and C. Kessler. Cherished friend of Linda Ruffer and many, many others throughout the
 BRODER-Patricia (nee Janis). The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and friend, Patricia Broder, and send condolences to her family.       
 GABRILOVE-Hilda Weiss. Courageously succumbed in her 76th year after a brief struggle with cancer. A caring, compassionate, beautiful, wise and gracious woman of impeccable taste and discernment, her life was a joy and blessing to her family and those who knew her. An accomplished artist, s
 LAMBERT-Marion L. On December 26, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Henry A. Lambert and Benjamin V. Lambert. Fun loving grandmother of Alexa, Lauren and Hilary. Great-grandmother of Jack, Max and Grace. Sister of the late Dorothy Masius. Funeral service private. Contri
 ROTTENBERG-Reba. A life long resident of Manhattan, died on December 26, 2002. She was born on April 14, 1912 to Nathan and Lena Isaacson. She was a gifted and prolific artist, and a committed patron of the Society for the Advancement of Judaism and the Lucy Moses School. She was also a fou
 SARAVAY-Bess J. (nee Levine), 94, at her home in Florida on December 26, 2002. Wife of the late George Saravay. Mother of Stephen, Richard and Susan Hahn; mother-in-law of Jill, Barbara and Michael. Grandmother of Adam, Matthew, Nancy, Mara, Leslie, Becky, David and Laurie. Great-grandmothe
 SHELTON-Grace. On December 26, 2002. Survived by her mother ''Dickie'' Kaufman, children Julie and Tom, grandchildren Cole and Spencer, and her best friend, who was like her sister, Lilo. She was a loving, caring and kind person who will be greatly missed. Service Sunday, 3PM, ''The Riversi
 SUNSHINE-Elizabeth. Died at home peacefully, on December 26, 2002. Beloved and devoted mother of Judith, in whose heart she lives forever. Services Sunday, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 TRIGG-Libby. 79 of Hallandale, Florida and Southold, New York passed away peacefully on December 23, 2002 surrounded by the warmth of her family at Mt Sinai Hospital. Devoted wife of the late Seymour. Adored mother of Bonnie and Franklin. Worshiped grandmother of Tiffany, Tara, Beau, Tali, 
 Fay Bennett Watts, who led national efforts to help farm laborers and the rural poor, died on Dec. 19 in Shelburne, Vt. She was 88 and lived in Wake Robin, a retirement community in Vermont. Known professionally as Fay Bennett, she held posts at the National Sharecroppers Fu
 BEAN-Betty Randolph. On December 19, 2002 after a long illness. Survived by her daughter Kate Randolph Kubert, her son Bruce Clark Kubert and his wife Kathleen, her grandson Joseph Kubert, a sister Nancy Bean Hector, eight nieces and nephews, and the father of her children, Bruce Lee Kubert
 BRANDT-RAUF-Oren. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Association for New Americans, Inc. (NYANA) express its deep sorrow and shock at the tragic death of Oren Jacob Brandt-Rauf, beloved grandson of our longtime Board member, Frances Brandt. We send heartfelt condolences to Fra
 EISENBERGER-Agnes. Died peacefully on December 26 at Lenox Hill Hospital, NYC. In loving memory of our friend and colleague, whose inspirational leadership, deep musicality and intuitive encouragement guided countless artists throughout her 40 years at Colbert Artists Management. Her specia
 FLUG-Fortunee. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of our esteemed Founder, who was a loyal and generous supporter of our institution for nearly four decades. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to her husband, Alfred, her children, Robert and Carol,
 JOSELL-Florence K. On December 27, 2002. Loved and missed by Marna and Dennis Fierman, Dr. Stuart Josell, Sarina, Arielle and Justin, and wonderful cousins. She was gracious, generous and kind, as well as a talented artist. Services Sunday, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Am
 KOSTELANETZ-Ethel Cory. 91, died peacefully in her home on December 29. Loving wife of Boris. Devoted mother of Richard and Lucy, and grandmother of Eliza. She was a free spirit who enlivened the lives of people around her. She will be dearly missed. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riv
 LAMBERT-Marion L. On December 26, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Henry A. Lambert and Benjamin V. Lambert. Fun loving grandmother of Alexa, Lauren and Hilary. Great-grandmother of Jack, Max and Grace. Sister of the late Dorothy Masius. Funeral service private. Contri
 LEOPOLD-Jutta. Unexpectedly but peacefully in her sleep in California on December 9, 2002. Born in Nauen, near Berlin, March 17, 1940 our ueber alles geliebte Jutta led a wonderfully accomplished and loving life. Jutta married Kurt (Tony), her husband of 37 years in 1965 after a seven-year 
 MARUM-Jean. 72, of New York City. Born in Jersey City. Died December 27th. Beloved daughter of the late Alf and Gertrude Marum. Jean worked at Chemical Bank and the YWCA of New York. During her retirement, she was involved in programs at the New School for Social Research. Jean was a suppor
 MEYERS-Emma. On December 28, 2002. Beloved mother of Roberta Brodfeld and the late Janet Weinerman. Dear mother-in-law of Arthur Frommer. Loving wife of the late Irving Brodfeld and the late Irving Meyers. Dear grandmother of Tracie and Jill, Ivy and Randi, great-grandmother of Michaela, an
 MOORE-Ruth Crabbs. In Branford, CT, December 26, Ruth Crabbs Moore, devoted wife of Millard S. Moore for 73 years. Was born in Scarsdale, NY in 1908. She is survived by her devoted husband Millard, sons David J. Moore and the late Millard H. Moore. Ruth was the loving grandmother of Connie 
 PETRIE-Helen Hurst. Long time resident of Summit, New Jersey, died after a short illness, December 4, 2002 in Kingston - on - Thames, En gland while visiting her family. The wife of the late James A. Petrie Jr., formerly of Montclair and Summit, beloved mother of James and Bruce, grandmothe
 STEIN-Eleanor (Wiener). Beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, died on December 28, at the age of 89, after a short illness. She resided for many years with her late husband, Dr. Isidore Stein in Brooklyn, New York, before moving to Cliffside Park, New Jersey. Eleanor received h
 SUNSHINE-Elizabeth. Died at home peacefully, on December 26, 2002. Beloved and devoted mother of Judith, in whose heart she lives forever. Services Sunday, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 WEIJL-Liselotte Dina. Poeia Weijl-Farcy has great sorrow in announcing the death of her mother, Liselotte Dina Weijl, nee Drukker, on December 23, 2002. Her wisdom, wit and charm will be sorely missed by her children, grandchidlren and many friends throughout the world. Ceremonies will be h
 WELSH - Jewell (nee Coards). On December 24, 2002. Predeceased by her husband William M. Welsh. Beloved mother of Jocelynne Deborah and Warren Derek. Loving sister of Dolores and Lynn. Dear grandmother of Adrianna Jewell and aunt of Cristophe. Mother-in-law of Donald and Nilsa. Funeral 10am
 BASS-Janna. On January 27, 2003 following a long and cruel illness. Daughter of Miriam Katz, mother of Galina Bass and her husband Mehti Kazmi, grandmother of Jacob Kazmi, niece of Lyber and Elaine Katz. All will miss her. Service Adath Israel, 201 East Broadway, Wednesday, January 29, at 1
 BRANDENBURG - Judith Berman. On January 26 after a long illness. Beloved wife of Lane H. Brandenburg, cherished mother of David and Neal Brandenburg, dear sister of Richard M. Berman. Life-long leader in education and psychology. We love and miss her deeply. BRANDENBURGJUDITST#     
 DeJUR-Marion. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Marion DeJur. Known for her generosity to the Jewish community through the Harry DeJur Foundation, she will be remembered by the entire UJA-Federation family. Larry Zicklin, President
 DEMPSEY - Deanna. The staff and trustees of St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center are saddened by the death of Deanna Dempsey. She was a great supporter of St. Clare's work and established the Jack Dempsey Humanitarian Award which the Hospital awards at its gala. We will miss a dear friend
 EISENBERGER - Agnes. Dearest friend, sleep in peace next to your Jim. I'll miss you always. Eva EISENBERGER-Agnes. We will miss Agnes-her humanity, integrity, love of music and of her artists. Martha and Frank Salomon       
 ENZER - SOLOTAROFF - Sandra, died January 26 at Hilaire Farm Nursing Home, Huntington, NY, from complications related to Alzheimer's. She was a teacher scholar, and pianist and wife of Hyman Enzer, mother of Lisa Faith Enzer and Ethan Isak Enzer, grandmother of Aethena - Rose Enzer - Mahler
 HALPERN-Gertrude (Gittl). On January 27, 2003. Harrison, NY. She is survived by her husband Herbert (Henach), her two daughters, Ann and Deborah, and their spouses, Ernest and Erick, and her grandsons Joshua and Avi. A celebration of her life will be held on Thursday, January 30 at 2PM at P
 KOSTELANETZ-Ethel Cory. 91, died peacefully in her home on December 29. Loving wife of Boris. Devoted mother of Richard and Lucy, and grandmother of Eliza. She was a free spirit who enlivened the lives of people around her. She will be dearly missed. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riv
 LEVINE-Carol. We mourn the loss of a dear friend and colleague. Our deepest condolences to her children, Cindy, Robert, and Michael, and to her family. Martin Richards, Maryanne Dittmann, Sam Crothers, Monique Bell, Michael Milton, Dan Gallagher, The Producer Circle Co       
 MELAMED-Ann N. (nee Rodin), on January 24th, 2003 in NYC. Born on October 6th, 1909 in NYC. She received her BA from CUNY Hunter College and MA from Teachers College, Columbia University. She began a 35-year teaching career at NYC's Board of Education in 1940 and married Dr. Samuel Melamed 
 MEYERS-Emma. On December 28, 2002. Beloved mother of Roberta Brodfeld and the late Janet Weinerman. Dear mother-in-law of Arthur Frommer. Loving wife of the late Irving Brodfeld and the late Irving Meyers. Dear grandmother of Tracie and Jill, Ivy and Randi, great-grandmother of Michaela, an
 STEIN-Eleanor (Wiener). Beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, died on December 28, at the age of 89, after a short illness. She resided for many years with her late husband, Dr. Isidore Stein in Brooklyn, New York, before moving to Cliffside Park, New Jersey. Eleanor received h
 WEIJL-Liselotte Dina. Poeia Weijl-Farcy has great sorrow in announcing the death of her mother, Liselotte Dina Weijl, nee Drukker, on December 23, 2002. Her wisdom, wit and charm will be sorely missed by her children, grandchidlren and many friends throughout the world. Ceremonies will be h
 MARCUS-Syma Wexler. A caring daughter, a loving mother and grandmother, and a devoted wife to the late Rabbi Robert H. Marcus. Her kindness and humility and the sparkle in her eyes remain an inspiration to all those who knew and loved her. Jerry Marcus       
 BANDER-Anna M. (nee Chernock), 90. Of Fall River Massachusetts and Floral Park, NY. Died peacefully on December 30 in River Vale NJ after a five month battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Bander, loving sister to the late Harry and Warren Chernock. Devoted mother of Barbara F
 FLUG-Fortunee. Of Palm Beach, FL. by way of Syria and NYC lives on in the hearts of her beloved husband Alfred, children Carol and Robert, grandchildren Owen, Raquel and Danielle, great-grandchildren Juliette and Alexander, and brother Kenneth Husney. Each day we smell gardenias, hear the s
 GOTTLIEB-Erica. On December 28, 2002. Loving wife of Gene Eagle. Devoted sister to Amy and Ellen. Loving aunt to Liana, David and Jeff. Services today at 12:45 PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. GOTTLIEB-Erica. The Sandra Cameron Dance Center deeply mourns th
 KLAINBERG-Sara. On December 29, 2002. We will miss our Bubby. Lovingly, Her Children, Daughters-InLaw, Grandchildren and Great Grandchildren       
 KOSTELANETZ-Ethel Cory. Congregation Emanu-El of the city of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Ethel Cory Kostelanetz. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Robert 
 MELAMED-Ruth. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Ruth Melamed, beloved mother of our devoted members Dr. Jakob and Esther Melamed, grandmother of Jeffrey and Max. Deepest sympathy to her husband Isaac and the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President       
 SHAPIRO-Miriam Sollen. Long Beach, NY. One year since her death and 86 years since her birth. An adorable woman whose warmth, spirit and wisdom will always be in our hearts and guide our lives. Love, Sara, Avram, David and Judah       
