 Mary Ellis, the young opera singer for whom Rudolf Friml wrote ''Rose-Marie'' in 1924 and who later became the queen of musicals in London, died there on Thursday at her home on Eaton Square. She was 105, including the three years that Hollywood publicists subtracted in the 1930's. 
 Natalya Dudinskaya, who wielded major influence over the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad as its leading ballerina in the 1940's and 50's and as a revered teacher and the wife of its onetime artistic director, Konstantin Sergeyev, died on Wednesday in St. Petersburg. She was 90. With her e
 DESROSIERS - Denise. Of West 76 Street, passed away on January 29. An extraordinary artist, Denise was an avid equestrian and lover of animals, but she'll be remembered most for her inexhaustible spirit and for being the most loyal, dependable and loving of sister, aunt and friend. We will 
 GREENBURG-Ethel. January 31, 2003. Beloved wife of the late William Greenburg. Loving nother of Jonnie Greene and her husband Roger and Susan Wood Richardson and her husband Randolph. Cherished grandmother of Tracey Riese and her husband Phillip and Seth Greene and his wife Marina. Proud gr
 HARPER-Muriel A. (nee Drumgoole), 85. Of Middletown, NJ, on January 30, 2003 at home. Beloved wife of the late Eugene W. Much loved mother of Eugene W, Jr, James D, Robert F, Gerard E, Thomas P, Daniel J, Mary T, and the late Lawrence J. and William M. Dear grandmother of Elizabeth, Virgini
 SCHRECK-Laurel. The staff of The Alan Guttmacher Institute mourns the loss of Laurel Schreck, our friend and former colleague, and extend their deepest sympathy to her husband, Josh Katz, and daughter, Anya.       
 SEEGER-Beverly. Of Kings Point, NY, passed away on Thursday, January 30, 2003. She was born in New York City on September 22, 1930. She is survived by her husband, Hal Seeger of Kings Point; three daughters, Susan Seeger and Mindy Seeger of Los Angeles, CA., and Charlene Seeger of Kings Poi
 SKEIST - Marian. Beloved wife of Merrill. Sister of Alvin (Lynn) Felman. Mother of Barry (Destiny), Loren (Marlene) and Lisa (Avi) Hadar and grandmother of Marc, David, Tal, Elan, Sarah, Tova and Benjamin. Funeral Sunday, February 2, 1:00 PM at Gutterman's Funeral Home, 8000 Jericho Turnpik
 TILSON-Phyllis Wiegand, 93. Of Old Chatham, NY, died January 29, 2003, after a brief illness. She was the daughter of American landscape artist, Gustave Wiegand. She was predeceased by husband Paul in 1986 and is survived by two daughters, Phyllis Piotrow and Ann Burnham, and six grandchild
 Annemarie Schimmel, who became fascinated with the Muslim world after hearing Arabian tales as a child and went on to become one of the 20th century's most influential scholars of Islam, died last Sunday in Bonn. She was 80. Ms. Schimmel taught generations of students in a breathtak
 Evelyn Trout, a pioneering aviator who flew in the first Powder Puff Derby and held many records, including becoming the first woman to fly all night, died on Jan. 24 in San Diego. She was 97. Known as Bobbi for her bob hairstyle, she had an international pilot's license signed by O
 CHEIKEN-Betty. Of Rockland County, NY, formerly of Hollywood, FL, died January 28, 2003 at the age of 95. She was the wife of the late Louis Cheiken. She is survived by her daughter Carole Green; her grandchildren, Lisa and Michael Kossar, Donna and Michael Wolff; and five greatgrandchildre
 DeJUR-Marion. We note with sadness the passing of a dear friend, who with her husband were staunch supporters of the Rusk's philosophy. To their daughter, Dr. Dianne Davis, through which a second generation of dedication continues, we offer our condolences. Mathew H.M. Lee, MD, FACP Howard 
 DIAMOND - Irene. The Trustees, faculty and staff of New School University mourn with deep sadness the death of Irene Diamond, a dedicated and strong supporter of our educational mission. She was a visionary philanthropist and a staunch leader in creating opportunities for society's underrep
 FORESE-Florine J. (nee Skutnik). Age 65, of Naples, FL, died Thursday, January 23, 2003, at her home. Born in Pine Island, NY, she lived in Franklin Lakes, NJ, Paris, London and St. David's, PA, before moving to Naples in 2002. Mrs. Forese received her BA in Education from Albany State Teac
 GREENBURG-Ethel. January 31, 2003. Beloved wife of the late William Greenburg. Loving nother of Jonnie Greene and her husband Roger and Susan Wood Richardson and her husband Randolph. Cherished grandmother of Tracey Riese and her husband Phillip and Seth Greene and his wife Marina. Proud gr
 HADZI-Martha Leeb (Molly). 83. Of Amherst, MA, died peacefully on January 25, 2003. Beloved mother of Cristina and Stephen Hadzi. Among her many professional and personal accomplishments, she was an archaeologist for the excavations at Samothrace and a distinguished Professor of our history
 KERN-Marana (deesi Daday). Of Valhalla, NY, January 29. Wife of the late Robert J. Kern. Survived by daughters, Marana A. Kern and her husband Mark Connaughton of Wayland, MA, and Judith Kern and her husband Brian Boden of Mendham, NJ; sister Eniko Kenez of Budapest, Hungary, and six grandc
 KOBELSKI-Dorothy T., 78. Devoted widow of John J. Kobelski, Jr. Died Monday, January 20th, 2003 in her home. Funeral mass will be held at 10 A.M., on Monday, February 3rd, 2003 at The Church of our Saviours (38th Street and Park Avenue, Manhattan). She is survived by her sister Helen.      
 KRANTZ - Bertha. Dearly loved by family and friends, died at home in Mt. Dora, FL where she retired in 1989 after a celebrated career in publishing, 34 years of which were spent at Random House. She is survived by lifelong friends, co-workers, colleagues, and her beloved family, and was kno
 LIU-Mary Man-Li. 94, on January 24, after a long illness. Widow of Chinese Minister to Germany and Ambassador to Italy, with strength and determination she led her five children from occupied China to war time capital, then to America for their education. She is survived by four of the chil
 MAYER-Jill Russek. Of Scarsdale, died January 25 from complications of scleroderma. Loving wife of Dolf, mother of Valerie (and Tony). Grandmother of Anthony, sister of Harold (and Lyn.) Family and friends, to whom she gave unceasingly of herself, will sorely miss her. Memorial service 10AM
 MILLER-Dorothy. Wife of the late Irving Miller. Beloved aunt of Gerald and Suzen Drogin, Arnold Silberman, Carol Horn, Ken and Karen Gordon-Davis, great-aunt of Marcy, Julie, Jamie, Marisa Drogin and Philip and Eric Slatkin, Gaby and Jessie Davis, Jeffrey and Kenneth Akrish, passed away on 
 PERRY-Ruth Ann. Age 72, of NYC, formerly of Montclair, NJ, on January 29, 2003. Devoted sister of Judith Perry Connolly and her husband David, of Basking Ridge. Aunt to David J. and Jon H. Connolly, Laurie Ann Lowrie, Susan K. Carroll, and also survived by many grandnieces and nephews. The 
 POLLACK-Ruth Brill. Age 96, died peacefully in New York City on January 30. Born February 14, 1907 in New York City, she attended Parsons School of Design and freelanced until her marriage to industrialist Jacob (Jack) Kugelman. A resident of Miami Beach and Abington, Pennsylvania. Voluntee
 SCHNEIDERMAN - Mary. Died peacefully on January 31, 2003 in her 87th year in Palm Beach, FL. Lifelong resident of New York City. Devoted and loving wife of Robert for 63 years, and loving mother of Stuart and David, loving grandmother of Katie, beloved by all. Graveside service Monday, Febr
 SEEGER-Beverly. Of Kings Point, NY, passed away on Thursday, January 30, 2003. She was born in New York City on September 22, 1930. She is survived by her husband, Hal Seeger of Kings Point; three daughters, Susan Seeger and Mindy Seeger of Los Angeles, CA., and Charlene Seeger of Kings Poi
 SKEIST - Marian. Beloved wife of Merrill. Sister of Alvin (Lynn) Felman. Mother of Barry (Destiny), Loren (Marlene) and Lisa (Avi) Hadar and grandmother of Marc, David, Tal, Elan, Sarah, Tova and Benjamin. Funeral Sunday, February 2, 1:00 PM at Gutterman's Funeral Home, 8000 Jericho Turnpik
 SPODHEIM - Renee. Dear colleague, mentor, and friend. Died Janaury 31st. Renee's superb teaching of French inspired countless Fieldston students, many of whom established lasting friendships with her. All members of the Fieldston Community who knew her will mourn her passing. Rolly Phillips
 WEINER-Rea. 90, passed away gently on January 26, 2003. Beloved mother to Harvey and Marcia, and Annette and Sol. Devoted and loving grandmother to Howard, Cathy, Michael, Merryl, Sean, Allison and David. Adored Bubby to Eian and Carly. All of our lives are richer because of her.       
 Edith Hirsch, a former commodities economist, died on Jan. 7 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, D.C. She was 103. Edith Hirsch and her husband, Julius, who was a macroeconomist, formed a consulting group in New York in 1941. Their clients included Levi Strauss, RCA, Ba
 Lillian Nadel Gerard, who was active in exhibiting and marketing foreign films in the United States for three decades, died last Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. The cause was complications of cancer, her husband, Philip R. Gerard, said. After she was hired in 19
 ALBERT-Sondra R. Beloved daughter of the late Bernard and Lily Albert. Sister of Sigmund and Edward Albert (Brenda Krepol). Cherished friend of Joan Srager and Sally Dorst. Passed away peacefully January 31 after a long illness. Services will be held Thursday, February 6, 10 AM, at the Plaz
 ASCHE-Marjorie E. On February 1. Beloved wife of the late Abraham (Jack) Asche. Loving mother of Richard and Barbara Asche and Judith and Stephen Stoll. Adoring and proud grandmother of Michael, Rachel, Corey and Katia. Dear sister of Leonard Ernst and sister-inlaw of Esther Asche. Family w
 FRIEDMAN-Daniel. On February 1, age 67, after a long courageous battle with lymphoma. Daniel resided in New York and Arizona. Retired Chairman and CEO of Kable News Company. Past Master of the Sea Gate Lodge. Honored by the Brandeis University and American Jewish Congress for work done in t
 HADZI-Martha Leeb (Molly). 83. Of Amherst, MA, died peacefully on January 25, 2003. Beloved mother of Cristina and Stephen Hadzi. Among her many professional and personal accomplishments, she was an archaeologist for the excavations at Samothrace and a distinguished Professor of our history
 HORSTMANN - Charlotte. Antique dealer and Chinese arts purveyor of Hong Kong and New York, Charlotte Horstmann, 94, died February 1 of natural causes in Stamford, CT. She is survived and will be missed by her loving daughter, Renata de Pepe of Greenwich, CT, and son, Bernhard of Bradenton, 
 McKAY - Sr. Raymunde, RSHM. 86, on February 1, Tarrytown, NY. Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary for 66 years. Teacher at Marymount School, Tarrytown; Academy of the Sacred Heart of Mary, Manhattan; Marymount International School, Kingston, England. Principal of Marymount School of New Y
 POMERANTZ-Mae, 95. Was the essence of all that is sweet and fine and gentle in this world. She was the adored wife of the late Benjamin Pomerantz, the cherished mother of Marvin and Shellie Pomerantz and Drs. Ruth and Robert Waldbaum, the beloved grandmother of Alisa Ercolano, Dana Henke, N
 SCHWARZ-Diane. Born May 13, 1942, in Newark, died February 1, 2003, at home in South Orange, NJ, with her family and loved ones. Diane attended Weequahic High School in Newark and the University of Chicago and went on to teach fourth grade in Westfield. She was a founder of South Orange Nei
 SKEIST - Marion. Delaire Country Club mourns the loss of their member Marion Skeist and extends its sincere sympathies to her husband Merrill and her extended family. Jack Lipsey, President       
 TEUFEL - Elizabeth De Roberts. Of Yonkers, died January 31, 2003. She was 90 years old. Calling hours will be at Flynn Memorial Home, 1652 Central Park Ave, Yonkers, NY (914-963-5178), on Monday from 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass Tuesday, 11 AM, at Christ the King Church. Interment St. Mary'
 WEINBERG-Celia Damsey. On January 29, 2003, approaching her 97th birthday, Cele Weinberg died peacefully and with the love of all who knew her. She leaves her loving and beloved children Jay Weinberg and Rita Bikel (Theodore) and her adoring and greatly adored grandsons, Robert Bikel (Judi)
 Sylvia Regan Ellstein, who wrote a two-act comedy, ''The Fifth Season,'' a Broadway hit in 1953, died Jan. 18 in Manhattan. She was 94. The play, by Sylvia Regan, as she was widely known, was a comedy about the dress trade. Brooks Atkinson, reviewing it in The New York Times, called
 ALBERT-Sondra R. Beloved daughter of the late Bernard and Lily Albert. Sister of Sigmund and Edward Albert (Brenda Krepol). Cherished friend of Joan Srager and Sally Dorst. Passed away peacefully January 31 after a long illness. Services will be held Thursday, February 6, 10 AM, at the Plaz
 ASCHE-Marjorie E. On February 1. Beloved wife of the late Abraham (Jack) Asche. Loving mother of Richard and Barbara Asche and Judith and Stephen Stoll. Adoring and proud grandmother of Michael, Rachel, Corey and Katia. Dear sister of Leonard Ernst and sister-inlaw of Esther Asche. Funeral 
 FRIEDLANDER-Anna. Age 99. Died February 2, 2003. World traveler, beloved mother to Seymour, Vera and Barbara, grandmother to Paul, Beth, Debbie, Michael, Joanna and Clifford. Great grandmother to Joel, Emily and Jordan. Took her final trip to rest with her late husband Morris and beloved da
 GOLDBERG-Sonia (nee Dinoff). On February 3. Devoted wife of the late Joseph. Beloved mother of Sabina and Rita. Her goodness will always be remembered.       
 HARROW - Eleanor (Hir schson). Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY, on January 31, 2003. Beloved wife for fifty years of Arthur, devoted mother of Jeffrey (Amy) Harrow, Gail (Alan) Epstein. Also survived by five grandchildren, Julie and Daniel Reizes, Jason, Dana and Ross Harrow. Re
 LITTLE-Elizabeth Stella, 87. Died peacefully in her home in Palo Alto, CA on January 26th. Born in New York in 1915 to Itala and Joseph Stella. She is survived by a sister, Ethel Stella, a son Andrew Little, daughters Anne Broderick Kavanau, Katy Derezinski and Amy Mayer, nine grandchildren
 McKaY - Sr. Raymunde, RSHM. In mourning her passing and celebrating her life, we at Marymount Manhattan College join the Religious of the Sacred Heart of Mary in expressing tribute to Sr. Raymunde. As a former dean and president, Sr. Raymunde made an extraordinary contribution to our foundi
 SCARLETT-Bernell H. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowleges with sadness the passing of Bernell H. Scarlett, beloved mother of our dear friend and devoted colleague, June Scarlett, Administrator for the Department of Medicine. To June, her brothers and sisters, the entire S
 SCHWARZ-Diane. Born May 13, 1942, in Newark, died February 1, 2003, at home in South Orange, NJ, with her family and loved ones. Diane attended Weequahic High School in Newark and the University of Chicago and went on to teach fourth grade in Westfield. She was a founder of South Orange Nei
 SPODHEIM - Renee. Died January 31, 2003 at her residence in New York; daughter of Frederic and Regina Spodheim. She was born in Bacau, Romania and became a U.S. citizen in 1947. During WWII she was a translator for the Office of War Information. She studied at the Sorbonne and Columbia Univ
 ALBERT-Sondra R. Beloved daughter of the late Bernard and Lily Albert. Sister of Sigmund and Edward Albert (Brenda Krepol). Cherished friend of Joan Srager and Sally Dorst. Passed away peacefully January 31 after a long illness. Services will be held Thursday, February 6, 10 AM, at the Plaz
 BANDIER-Frances. Beloved wife of the late Otto Bandier and mother of Martin and Robert. Passed away peacefully, aged 92, at her home in Hallandale, FL on February 4. Loving and proud grandmother of Allison, Jennifer, Max, Mark, and David. Great grandmother of Cameron, Julia, Ashley, Daniel,
 EPSTEIN-Rabbi Joshua. The S/A/R Academy extends condolences to Tamar Bar-David, wife of Trustee Dr. Tzvi Bar-David on the loss of her beloved father. May the entire family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.       
 KAUFMAN-Eugenie. ''Genie''. Passed away January 30, 2003. Represented J. Arthur Rank in America. Heaven will be filled with her laughter. We will love and miss her. Katie, Elizabeth, Joyce Rosenberg and Family       
 KORSHIN-Carolyn R. (nee Relis) died peacefully at her home in Whitestone, NY on February 4, 2003, after a short illness in which she was attended by close friends and her granddaughter Farra Korshin. She was born in New York City on November 25, 1910, and grew up near Liberty, NY. She gradu
 QUINLAN-Amy. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of former member, Amy Quinlan, daughter of members, Thomas and Carolyn Kohlberg, and extend sincere condolences to her family. Alex C. Solowey, President       
 SEEGER - Beverly. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President       
 SPITALNICK - Ruth (nee Strumwasser). On February 4, 2003. Devoted wife of Morris, loving mother of Dennis and Andrea Spitalnick and June and Larry Aversano, adoring and proud grandmother of Ross, Jared, Adam and Jonathan. An independent woman with a zest for life. We will remember her warmt
 TOWNSEND-Marjorie Bradley. January 31, 2003. In New York City at age 93. Daughter of the late Alden Shirley Bradley, and Martha Jane Paulette. Devoted wife of the late Barnard Townsend, beloved mother of Diana Townsend-Butterworth, mother-inlaw of Duke Butterworth and loving grandmother of 
 CATANZARO - Rose (nee Mistretta), 72. Of Woodcliff Lake, NJ died February 4, 2003. Born in New York City, she lived in New Bern, NC before moving to Woodcliff Lake, NJ. Mrs. Catanzaro was a homemaker. Beloved wife of Rosario Catanzaro of Woodcliff Lake, NJ. Devoted mother of Marisa McDonnel
 CLARK-Adele B. (nee Gaudet). Died on January 30, 2003. Devoted mother and grandmother, friend and neighbor. Teacher, volunteer and community activist. She is survived and remembered by her family: her son, Dr. Christopher Osgood, professor at Old Dominion University in Norfolk, VA; her daug
 KLEINMAN-Virginia (Ginny) on February 5, 2002 of Roslyn, NY. Having never given up, Ginny lost her brief yet valiant battle against the effects of liver cancer. Always giving of herself selflessly towards others, she had a way about her that made everyone she came in contact with happy to b
 KRONENGOLD - Marjorie. On February 4, 2003. Beloved wife of Toby. Loving daughter of Harold and the late Hilda Franks. Dear sister of the late Joan Franks Williams and sister-in-law of Irving Williams. Devoted aunt of David, Joshua, Daniel and Ivana. Service Thursday 11:45AM at ''The Rivers
 SCHWARTZ - Doris. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our dear friend and former colleague, who for 26 years, from 1963 to 1989, was the staff director of our National Women's Division. Under her stewardship, the Division developed into a major fu
 SPRAGUE-Lucy Ruffin. Of Tenafly, NJ, passed away on January 14, 2003. A memorial service will be held at St. Paul's Church, Englewood, NJ at 12 noon, on February 8, 2003 (phone: 201-568-3276). In lieu of flowers gifts in her memory may be made to St. Paul's Church, 113 Engle Street, Englewo
 DEAN-Ruth Josephine, 100. Of 165 West 66th Street, passed away on February 3. A native of Manhattan, she was born March 10, 1902. Internationally recognized as an Anglo-Norman scholar, Dean taught at Mount Holyoke College for 33 years. Since retirement in 1967, she has worked primarily in E
 HONIG-Rosalind (Penny). In her 92 year peacefully. Beloved mother of Sheila Levin and Elliot Honig. Grandmother of Alison, Ethan and Eric (Anne) Woods. Great grandmother of Samantha, Mackie, Josie and Olivia Woods. Funeral will be on Sunday. You will be missed.       
 KLEINMAN-Ginny, December 5, 1956-February 5, 2003. Our cherished friend who exuded her love through any excuse to celebrate. Your zealous spirit, your natural elegance and charm, and your bountiful warmth will be deeply missed and never forgotten. Patty, Billy, Jennifer & David KLEI
 TOWNSEND-Marjorie Bradley. January 31, 2003. In New York City at age 93. Daughter of the late Alden Shirley Bradley, and Martha Jane Paulette. Devoted wife of the late Barnard Townsend, beloved mother of Diana Townsend-Butterworth, mother-inlaw of Duke Butterworth and loving grandmother of 
 BUCKSTEIN-Rochelle J., 61. Of Boca Raton, formerly of New York, passed away Thursday, February 6, 2003. Loving daughter and daughter-in-law. Beloved wife of Mark, devoted mother of Michael and Robin (Michael) Stier. Joyous grandmother of Jason, Jared and Talia. Loved by her extended family 
 FOSS-Rebecca H., 101. On February 7, 2003. Beloved wife for 65 years of the late Mortimer M. Foss. Cherished mother of Natalie Stein (Robert) and Beejay Brown (Donald). Adored Nana of grandsons Edward Stein (Katie Connolly) and Kerry Stein (Jean Marie), Mark Brown (Roxanne), Douglas Brown (
 LENARD-Frances. On February 5, 2003, peacefully at home in Highland Park, NJ. Beloved wife of the late George, devoted mother of John and Thomas, cherished grandmother of Eric, Keith, Karen, Steven, Julie and Michael, great-grandmother of Ruby Frances. She will be missed.       
 SPITZER-Suzanne Elin (daughter of the late Sol and Sylvia Cohen, Newport Nitwear), of New York City, residing in Boynton Beach, FL, died on February 2, 2003. Survived by her daughters: Arlene and Caren Elin, Diane and Ross Browarnik, and grandson Seth. Funeral at 1:00PM, February 9th, 2003,
 WILENSKY-Ada. The entire Dunewood community mourns the loss of Ada Wilensky. She was a summer resident in Dunewood for several decades. Her friendly smile and manner will be missed by all. We send condolences to her sons and her entire family.       
 Cora Ginsburg, a prominent dealer in antique fabrics and clothing, died on Dec. 12 at her home in Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 92. After World War II she worked with her husband, Benjamin Ginsburg, at Ginsburg & Levy, his family's antiques firm, at 815 Madison Ave., in Manhattan.        
 BARBER-Virginia McClamroch. Widow of James F. Hoge and Anthony Barber, at age 95, at her Manhattan home on February 7, 2003. She is survived by two sons, James F. Hoge Jr. and Warren M. Hoge, a daughter, Virginia Hoge Verwaal, seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren; a daughter, B
 BURG-WIENER-Gladys. On February 7, 2003. Daughter of the late Sadie and Samuel Matzke. Born in Brooklyn, in 1913, passed away on February 7, just shy of her 90th birthday. She survived both of her husbands: Harry Wiener and Morris Burg. She will be missed by all of her dear friends. Service
 de GAMEZ-Tana. On February 5, 2003. Survived by her sister Mercedes Berger, her niece Laura and nephew Roy. Also loving aunt of Jessie, Alex, Morgan and Ross. Funeral services private.       
 FASTENBERG-Jessie. On February 7, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Julius. Dear mother of Paula and motherin-law of Peter Sperling. She will be dearly missed. A graveside service Sunday, February 9th, 11 A.M., at Old Montefiore Cemetery, Springfield Gardens, NY.       
 FELD-Harriet Ruth. On February 8, 2003. Adored and adoring sister of Rosalind and Henry Maringer. Beloved aunt of Elizabeth Maringer, Stephen Maringer and Jay Shiland. How very much she will be missed. Service Monday, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 FOSS-Rebecca H., 101. On February 7, 2003. Beloved wife for 65 years of the late Mortimer M. Foss. Cherished mother of Natalie Stein (Robert) and Beejay Brown (Donald). Adored Nana of grandsons Edward Stein (Katie Connolly) and Kerry Stein (Jean Marie), Mark Brown (Roxanne), Douglas Brown (
 GOLDBERG - Mildred, 95. Died peacefully on February 6, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel. Dearest sister of Margaret, Norma and the late Lillian and Elsie. Much loved aunt and great-aunt to many nieces and nephews. She will be missed. Funeral service on Tuesday, February 11th at 1:00PM
 GREENBERG-Jill Warren (Mary Audrey Rochlen). Beloved mother of Peter Greenberg and Dr. Karen Greenberg Rudman. Wife of the late Dr. Sidney Greenberg. Sister of Kendis, David, Hartwell, Gail and the late Donald Rochlen and a longtime devoted friend of Lucille Fore, died on February 7, 2003, 
 KURRELMEYER - Nancy Snow. Of Whiting, Vermont, died unexpectedly at home Saturday, February 1, 2003 at the age of 40. She was born in Burlington, VT. on August 31, 1962, the daughter of Louis H. Kurrelmeyer and Phyllis A. Damon. She attended The Brearley School in NYC and was a graduate of 
 SHAW-Elizabeth (Roberts), 82. Of Wareham, MA, formerly of Millbrook, NY and New York City, died on Tuesday, February 4, 2003 in Wareham. She was the wife of Samuel P. Shaw. Born January 16, 1921 in NY, NY, the daughter of Lawrence L. and Margaret (McLean) Roberts. Mother of Chris Ann Afflec
 TOWNSEND-Marjorie Bradley. January 31, 2003. In New York City at age 93. Daughter of the late Alden Shirley Bradley, and Martha Jane Paulette. Devoted wife of the late Barnard Townsend, beloved mother of Diana Townsend-Butterworth, mother-inlaw of Duke Butterworth and loving grandmother of 
 JOFFE-Helen Gewertz. 6/4/30-2/7/97. Beloved sister. Her memory is a blessing. Joanna Gewertz Harris       
 VAN ZANDT-Gretchen. In memory of my beloved sister Gretchen Van Zandt on the second anniversary of her death on February 9, 2001.       
 BARBER-Virginia McClamroch. Widow of James F. Hoge and Anthony Barber, at age 95, at her Manhattan home on February 7, 2003. She is survived by two sons, James F. Hoge Jr. and Warren M. Hoge, a daughter, Virginia Hoge Verwaal, seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren; a daughter, B
 DAMON - MORANG - Diane. Classmates of Miss Hewitt's Classes mourn her untimely death on February 4. Memorial service will be at St. Mary's-in-Tuxedo, Tuxedo Park, NY, 10:30 AM, Saturday, February 15.       
 GILMARTIN - Patricia Ann (nee Quinn). 63, died at home in Spring Lake Heights, NJ, February 7, 2003. She was born, raised and educated in The Bronx, NY, graduating from St. Simon Stock School. She was a realtor with the Christine Keating Agency and prior to that an occupancy planning engine
 GOLDBERG - Mildred, 95. Died peacefully on February 6, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel. Dearest sister of Margaret, Norma and the late Lillian and Elsie. Much loved aunt and great-aunt to many nieces and nephews. She will be missed. Funeral service on Tuesday, February 11th at 1:00PM
 GREENLEAF-Sybil Conrad. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its member, and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Amy S. Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Sr. Rabbi       
 KOSLOW-Faye. 91, of Riverdale, NY, on February 8, 2003. Predeceased by her husband Philip. Devoted mother of Ellen and Merill Resnick, and Louise and Erik Kapner. Loving grandmother to Evan and David Resnick. Dear companion to Ben Pomerantz.       
 RUSSELL-Beatrice. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Devoted mother of Jody and Franck, Adam and Stacey, Scott and Dana and the late Laura. Loving grandmother of Rebecca, Harrison, Sarah, Alexander, Emily and Bennett. Dear sister of Irving and Gloria, Dorothy and Bernard, and the late Florence
 SARKIN-Mona. Born November 2, 1912, in the Ukraine, the daughter of Max and Ida Shane. She died February 8, 2003, in Palm Beach, FL. She was married to David Sarkin for 51 years, until his death in 1987. Together they founded and enjoyed building David Sarkin, Inc., and Loulane, Inc., diamo
 DEAN - Henrietta. Died peacefully, February 8, 2003. Devoted mother of Gail Edelman and Robert Lichtenstein. Loving stepmother of Dorothy and Joel. Cherished grandmother of Amy, Tina and Marc. Great-grandmother of Jaden. Her spirit will be long remembered.       
 GOLDBERG-Mildred. The faculty and staff of the Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain at Columbia University mourn the loss of our benefactor and loyal friend Mrs. Mildred Goldberg. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Richard Mayeux, M.D., MSc Micha
 GREENLEAF-Sybil Conrad. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Sybil Conrad Greenleaf, and extend our sincere condolences to her family. Alex C. Solowey, President       
 HAIGHT - Frances Hoge. Frances Haight, 90, died on January 27 in Fullerton, CA. Before moving to California in 1995, she lived in New York City, Stamford, CT, Bedford, NY and Loon Lake, NY in the summers. She dedicated her life to family and community service, working worldwide for child we
 KLEINMAN-Jenny Caroline. On February 5, 2003. Beloved daughter of Sidney and Elisabeth; sister, aunt, cousin and niece. She will always remain in our hearts.       
 BRADY-Mary Therese. On February 9, 2003. Survived by beloved cousins Moira Brady, Elizabeth Beirne, Melinda Jeglinski, Michael Beirne, Sheila Slaughter, Brenda Veltre and her dear caregiver Sonia Mata. Reposing at Krtil Funeral Home-Yorkville Funeral Service Inc, 1297 First Ave, NYC on Thur
 DANN-Rose, 101, of Hollywood, FL, died Wednesday, February 5, 2003, eight days before her 102nd birthday. Rose died peacefully in her home surrounded by those who loved her. Formerly from Mt. Vernon, NY, Rose survived two husbands, Bertram Goldfield and Herbert Dann, and her daughter, Joan 
 FLYNN-Josephine M. On February 6, age 75, in Norwalk, CT. Daughter of the late Laurence F. and Eugenie Bissell Millet. Survived by husband Harry L. Flynn; brother Frank D. Millet of Milton, MA, five children and five grandchildren. Her eternal optimism, sharp mind and generous spirit will b
 GANNON - Anna Mascolo, M.D., 66, of New York City and Shelter Island, died at home on February 11, 2003, after a prolonged illness. A graduate of Brooklyn College and the Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania. Dr. Mascolo, an internist, served as Vice President at Long Island College Hosp
 HERTZ-Ruth Ruddy. 92, died on February 10, 2003, in Miami Beach, FL. Ruth was one of the first women to play a leading role in the American fur industry. Beginning in the 1950s, the distinctive Ruth Ruddy Inc. label became a Seventh Avenue icon. She was a dominant and stylish innovator in h
 MILANO-Sally, of Yonkers died February 10, 2003. She was 80 years old. Sally was a Real Estate Appraiser for almost 50 years, employed most recently by Appraisers & Planners Inc. of New York City. Loving sister of two brothers, Frank of Yonkers & Peter of Bedford and a sister Anne Dalrymple
 EDELMAN-Esther Muskin. Of Brookline, MA, passed away surrounded by her family on February 10, 2003, and was laid to rest in Israel on February 12, 2003. Beloved wife and partner of Julian, and devoted mother and cherished friend to Elazer (Cheryl), Theodore (Jewel), Raphael (Leslie) and Dan
 GANNON - Anna Mascolo, M.D., 66, of New York City and Shelter Island, died at home on February 11, 2003, after a prolonged illness. A graduate of Brooklyn College and the Women's Medical College of Pennsylvania. Dr. Mascolo, an internist, served as Vice President at Long Island College Hosp
 GREENBERG-Jill Warren (Mary Audrey Rochlen). Beloved mother of Peter Greenberg and Dr. Karen Greenberg Rudman. Wife of the late Dr. Sidney Greenberg. Sister of Kendis, David, Hartwell, Gail and the late Donald Rochlen and a longtime devoted friend of Lucille Fore, died on February 7, 2003, 
 HARTMANN-Ruth P., 86 years, died on February 12, 2003 at her home. Wife of the late Wayne J. Hartmann. Mother of Ann Miller, Elizabeth Hartmann, D.V.M. and Wayne Hartmann, Jr. ''Jud''. Funeral service at St. Matthew's Church, Bedford, NY on Saturday, February 15, 2:30PM. Burial at St. Matth
 KOBART-Ruth. Singer and actress, who performed on Broadway, opera, theatre, films and TV, died December 14, 2002 in San Francisco. Early on, she sang mezzo soprano roles with The Lemonade, NBC, NYC Operas. On Broadway, her performance in ''A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Forum'' wa
 SHAIN-Leah. On February 11, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Sam. May their love endure forever. Loving sister of Sarah Magalnick. Dear aunt of Jerome, Jo-Ellen and Jedna Magalnick and many nieces, nephews and dear friends. Services Thursday 1PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam
 WOLLINS-Adrienne A. On February 11, 2003. Beloved wife of Robert Wollins. Loving daughter of Constance Dina Katopes. Cherished brother of Nicholas M. Katopes. Reposing Basis Funeral Home, 27-12 23rd Ave, Astoria, NY Friday 2-5 & 7-9PM. Funeral liturgy St. Demetrios Greek Orthodox Cathedral,
 ANGLESEY-Zoe. Of Brooklyn, NY, passed away on February 12, 2003 surrounded by her family. Beloved mother, sister, grandmother and comrade. We mourn the loss of a committed writer, activist, teacher, critic and cook. A celebration of Zoe's life with jazz and poetry will be held at Lafayette 
 GREENBERG-Jill Warren (Mary Audrey Rochlen). Beloved mother of Peter Greenberg and Dr. Karen Greenberg Rudman. Wife of the late Dr. Sidney Greenberg. Sister of Kendis, David, Hartwell, Gail and the late Donald Rochlen and a longtime devoted friend of Lucille Fore, died on February 7, 2003, 
 JOHNSON-Katharyn (Price). Passed away February 10, 2003. Mrs. Johnson was predeceased by her husband, Edward F. Johnson. She is survived by a daughter, Jane Johnson Kent, and a son, Edward A. Johnson. A memorial service will be held Saturday, February 15, at the Hitchcock Presbyterian Churc
 TORR-Jane E. Suddenly on February 6, 2003. Beloved mother of Cynthia Green, Douglas Bissell, Dr. Patricia Zeffert, Joan Bissell, Angela Rutherford; beloved sister of Margaret Giovanniello and Helen Exton. She is also survived by fourteen grandchildren, three great-grandchildren, and many ni
 WIMPFHEIMER-Ruth. It is with profound sorrow that we learned of the passing of the wife of our dear president, Henry Wimpfheimer. The deceased was a staunch supporter of our organization & worked closely with her husband for this important charitable endeavor. Our condolences to her husband
 OREFICE - Lillian (Bern stein). Of Brooklyn; February 1, 2003. She is survived by her daughters and sons-in-law, Rachel and Ted Wilson, and Judi and Paul Heidel. She also leaves three grandchildren. Services were on February 7. Mom, we all loved you so much, and we will always remember your
 WEINGARTEN-Felice. On February 14, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Marcus. Loving mother of Laurel Paymer and Robert Weingarten. Adoring grandmother of Lisa Dodge, Andrew Paymer and Steven Paymer. Cherished great-grandmother. Service Sunday 11:15AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterda
 BORDEN-Adele (Addie) Segall. At age 74. Died after a long, courageous struggle with CLL. Beloved wife of the late Paul. She leaves her beloved children Joan, Gary and Neil, and six grandchildren, whom she deeply loves. She was a schoolteacher for many years at Great Neck South High School i
 DONALDSON-Judge Dorothea E. Age 91, of Winter Park, FL. On February 12, 2003. Notable woman jurist, Judge Donaldson served in New York State government as Supervising Referee of Workman's Compensation Board, Chairman of the Unemployment Insurance Appeal Board and was appointed in 1963 by Go
 FEINER - Millicent Fagin. Age 93, in Wynnewood, PA. ''Millie Darling'' to father Louis, brothers Paul (Shirley) and Joseph (Florence), sister Sarah, all of whom predeceased her. Adored wife of the late Hyman. Each time we arrive safely you will be in our thoughts; in our hearts forever. Dic
 LEIGHT-Timmy M. A. DiGiampaolo, died peacefully on February 11, 2003. Beloved mother of Jody and Warren, wife of Donald. Funny, generous, loving, tough old broad. Donations may be made in her memory to the Service Program for Older People, 188 West 88 St, 10024 or City Meals-On-Wheels, 355 
 LOCKER-Augusta. Of Riverdale, NY, on February 13. Predeceased by her husbands James Epstein and George Locker. Loving sister of Beatrice Solomon, Roberta Schulaner and Elliot Novek. Devoted volunteer to UJA and American Jewish Congress. Services Tuesday, 12 noon, at ''The Riverside,'' 21 We
 NOVICK-Tillie. 94. Died February 14, 2003. Beloved wife of Abe, devoted and loving grandmother to Jason and her daughter Lynn. Tillie was an early success in business. Did many acts of charity including volunteer in a soup kitchen in her 94th year. Kept her promises and had an unusual sense
 SEIDMAN-Annabel Henry. 85, of Falls Church Virginia. Passed away peacefully on February 13. Beloved wife of Bert, beloved mother of Peggy, Joan and Betsy, grandmother and step-grandmother of Kayti, Robb, Alice, Jamie and Matthew. President of the Class of 1937 of Brooklyn College. Teacher, 
 WHITE-Sylvia. February 14, 2003. Survived by her sister Dorothy Spotnitz; nephews Barry Weiss, Richard Weiss, Michael Weiss; niece Elizabeth Goldberg; and cousin Leona Stillman. Funeral services will be held at Mt. Carmel Cemetery in Queens on Tuesday at 2 PM.       
 Noriko Sawada Bridges Flynn, a writer and civil rights worker who managed to transcend the struggle between management and labor in her personal and professional life, died on Feb. 7 at her home in Pescadero, Calif. She was 79. Her first marriage, to Harry Bridges, the fiery Marxist
 ANTOSOFSKY-Lisa. 37, of Boulder, CO, daughter of Rabbi Marvin Antosofsky and Ruth Seif, after a courageous ten year battle with breast cancer. A talented musician, counselor, teacher of Judaism and spirituality, she brought joy to all with her magnetic personality and exhuberant vitality. S
 FISHER-Audrey. On February 14, 2003. Beloved mother of David and Amy, mother-inlaw of Brian and Pam, and cherished grandmother of James, Peter and Gillian. Services Tuesday, 10 AM, at Zion Memorial Chapel, 785 East Boston Post Rd, Mamaroneck, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her mem
 KRIEGEL-Regina. Devoted wife of the late Samuel Goldfield and the late Jacob Kriegel. Beloved mother of Esther and Hal Pollock, Yitzchak Goldfield, Rita and Sy Rotter, and Ruth and Sheldon Kriegel. Dear sister of Clara Rongil and the late Josef Halpern. Cherished grandmother, great-grandmot
 NOVICK-Tillie. 94. Died February 14, 2003. Beloved wife of Abe, devoted and loving grandmother to Jason and her daughter Lynn. Tillie was an early success in business. Did many acts of charity including volunteer in a soup kitchen in her 94th year. Kept her promises and had an unusual sense
 WERNER-Elizabeth Grumbach. 84. Died peacefully at her winter home in Palm Beach, FL, on February 15, 2003. Lifelong resident of NYC and Long Branch, NJ. Beloved mother of Patsy Werner Hanson (Michael), and Peter (Kedren) and Tom (Jill) Werner. Adoring grandmother of Chris and Geoff Hanson, 
 WILLEN-Janet Y. On February 15, 2003, at age 84. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Willen and Hans A. Sonnenthal. Loving mother of Peter Y. Sonnenthal and Valerie J.R. Sonnenthal. Adoring grandmother of Hudson and Sawyer Klebs. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison at 81st Street, Frida
 BALDWIN-Eileen N. (Mrs. James French). Died suddenly, and unexpectedly at her home in Delray Beach, FL on Monday February 17, 2003 in her 86th year. She is survived by her daughter, Mimi Rosenwald of Ossining, NY; her son John Moore of NYC; her step-daughter Susan Johnson of Newport, RI; he
 ENGLER-Ruth. Died peacefully on February 11, 2003 in Boca Raton, FL. at age 85. Owner of Block House, Inc. for more than thirty years in NYC. She will be missed deeply by family and friends.       
 FISHER-Audrey. On February 14, 2003. Beloved mother of David and Amy, mother-inlaw of Brian and Pam, and cherished grandmother of James, Peter and Gillian. Services Wednesday, 10 AM, at Zion Memorial Chapel, 785 East Boston Post Rd, Mamaroneck, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her m
 McGOLDRICK-Agnes F. Of Garden City, NY. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Jeff, Maura Wenk, Brian and Meegan Baxter. Grandmother of 13. Also survived by her sisters Kathryn Kade and Patricia Dempsey. Reposing at Fairchild Funeral Home, Garden City, NY, Wednesday 2-4 and 7-9.
 RICHMAN-Edith, 88. Of Hollywood, FL, passed away Thursday February 13, 2003. Beloved wife of Joe, who survives her. She is also survived by her son David, his wife Judith and her granddaughters, Elizabeth and Jessica, and her daughters, Patty and Christine Arciold. Graveside services Thursd
 SABO-Gloria V. 25 year resident of Short Hills, NJ, died February 13, 2003. Ms. Sabo was the President and owner of Breck's Home and Garden Center of Millburn. She was also the Co-Chairman and Owner of the Buck Hill Inn of Buck Hill Falls, PA. Buck Hill was the largest resort in the Northea
 SAMUELS-Helen Peck. Died peacefully at home on February 16, at age 97. She was predeceased by her beloved husband Barney Peck, and loving husband Jules Samuels. She was the devoted mother of Alice P. Soll, Joan Betty Schwarz, Stephen M. Peck and Larry Samuels. She had a special relationship
 WERNER-Elizabeth Grumbach, 84. Died peacefully at her winter home in Palm Beach, FL, on February 15, 2003. Lifelong resident of NYC and Long Branch, NJ. Beloved mother of Patsy Werner Hanson (Michael), and Peter (Kedren) and Tom (Jill) Werner. Adoring grandmother of Chris and Geoff Hanson, 
 BALDWIN-Eileen N. (Mrs. James French). Died suddenly, and unexpectedly at her home in Delray Beach, FL on Monday February 17, 2003 in her 86th year. She is survived by her daughter, Mimi Rosenwald of Ossining, NY; her son John Moore of NYC; her step-daughter Susan Johnson of Newport, RI; he
 CHOUKROUN - Gloria. On February 18. She is survived by her husband, Jacques; son, Giora; grandchildren, Arad and Limor; brothers, Stephen and Joel. Services 2:30 PM, February 19, at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 Second Ave. (East 10th St.)       
 CLARK-Frances B. Passed away peacefully on February 18, 2003. Dearly beloved wife of Robert L. Clark, who survives her. Also survived by her sister-in-law and brotherin-law Donna and Eugene Famera. Predeceased by her brother Richard Wayne Bohle. Attended Brown University and graduated from 
 COPLEMAN - Grace. Died peacefully February 17, in Freehold, NJ. Born March 10, 1908, Perth Amboy, NJ. Widow of Benjamin Copleman, M.D., formerly resided in Westfield, NJ. Beloved mother of Ralph Copleman and Marti Copleman, grandmother of Paul and Andrew Copleman, mother-in-law of Joyce Cop
 GINDEK - Joanne Lesko. Joanne Lesko Gindek died peacefully in Ridgefield, Connecticut on February 17, 2003 at the age of 66. Born in Danbury, Connecticut, Joanne was the daughter of George M. Lesko, an army captain in World War II, and Zillah Ellis Lesko, a renowned children's book illustra
 HERRMANN - Jacqueline. The Staff and Board of The Children's Museum of Manhattan mourn the passing of our longtime friend and staff member. Andrew Ackerman, Executive Director Laurie Tisch Sussman, Honorary Chairperson Marcia Warner, Board Member HERRMANN - Jacqueline. The Board of 
 JOFFE-Grace Frankel, 92. Died peacefully February 17, 2003 in New Rochelle. Born in Manhattan, she lived in Flushing until 2001. Loving and adored sister, aunt and great-aunt. Predeceased by husbands William Springman and Isaac Joffe as well as two brothers and four sisters. Secretary at Br
 LONDIN-Trudy. April 16, 1920 to February 17, 2003. At home as per her wish. Beloved mother of Sandy & Irwin Freifeld, Betty Renaudo, David & Karen Londin. Loving grandmother of Steven & Dorothy, Scott & Lauren, Lauri & Aaron, Lisa & Paul, Michael & Debbie, Hal, Bradley, Howard, Jeffrey & Na
 McGOLDRICK-Agnes F. Of Garden City, NY. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Jeff, Maura Wenk, Brian and Meegan Baxter. Grandmother of 13. Also survived by her sisters Kathryn Kade and Patricia Dempsey. Reposing at Fairchild Funeral Home, Garden City, NY, Wednesday 2-4 and 7-9.
 SAMUELS-Helen Peck. Died peacefully at home on February 16, at age 97. She was predeceased by her beloved husband Barney Peck, and loving husband Jules Samuels. She was the devoted mother of Alice P. Soll, Joan Betty Schwarz, Stephen M. Peck and Larry Samuels. She had a special relationship
 SCHEMAILLE-Rae, 94. Died February 15, 2003. Devoted wife of the late Ned, loving mother of Susan Ruben and Dr. Alan Schemaille. Grandmother of Michael Klonsky, Stacy Cohen, Andrew Klonsky, and Michael Schemaille. Great-grandmother of Silvie, Lindsey, Mark, Mia, Jacob, Elena, Will and Grace.
 SLOATE-Elsie K., 96, a model mother, friend and philanthropist, she passed peacefully on February 18. She was there for me throughout my life, particularly when I needed her most. A woman of boundless generosity to her family and far-reaching circle of friends. She left an indelible mark on
 WERNER-Elizabeth G. The Auxiliary of Lenox Hill Hospital records with sorrow the death of our cherished and devoted member of many years. Our deepest condolences to her family. Katherine T. McEnroe, Chairman       
 WILLEN-Janet Y. On February 15, 2003, at age 84. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Willen and Hans A. Sonnenthal. Loving mother of Peter Y. Sonnenthal and Valerie J.R. Sonnenthal. Adoring grandmother of Hudson and Sawyer Klebs. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison at 81st Street, Frida
 WITT-Helen Junger. Of Fire Island, New York and Laguna Hills, California. On the 16th of February at the age of 97 in Los Angeles, California. A graduate of New York University in 1926, Mrs. Witt taught Romance Languages in the New York City school system for many years. She was the devoted
 AARONSON-Ruth. On February 19, 2003. Cherished cousin and friend. She was artistic, intellectual and way ahead of her time. Her presence will be missed by all. Service Thursday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue Marilyn & George Helen & Howard Roberta & Mark    
 LERNER-Helen. On February 17, 2003. Beloved mother of Michael, Frank and Ira. Grandmother of Christopher, Dori, Julie and Alan. Her love, enthusiasm and boundless sense of humor will be forever missed. Services will be held on Friday, February 21, 2003 at the Redden Funeral Home, 325 W. 14 
 MANTON - Florence V. ''Gretchen,'' passed away on February 14, 2003, after a long illness. She is survived by her husband, Sir Edwin A. G. Manton; a daughter, Diana Morton; two grandchildren, Julia Kropf and Sandra Niles; and five great-grandchildren. Services are scheduled for 3:00PM, Satu
 SAMUELS-Helen Peck. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the Mount Sinai Medical Center are saddened by the passing of Helen Peck Samuels, mother of Stephen M. Peck, immediate past Chairman of our Boards of Trustees. Stephen Peck and his family have provided important leadership to Mount Sina
 SLOATE - Elsie K. Died peacefully in Manhattan on February 18, 2003. Beloved wife of her late husband, Kalman, devoted mother of her daughter, Laura, and her sons, Martin and Alan, and of her daughters-in-law, Phyllis and Roxene. Cherished grandmother of Paul, Pamela, Kenneth and Jonathan a
 WERNER-Elizabeth. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Elizabeth Werner. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her family. Jerold L. Zaro, President Harvey L. York, Secretary       
 WILLEN-Janet Y. On February 15, 2003, at age 84. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Willen and Hans A. Sonnenthal. Loving mother of Peter Y. Sonnenthal and Valerie J.R. Sonnenthal. Adoring grandmother of Hudson and Sawyer Klebs. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison at 81st Street, Frida
 CANTOR-Irene. A Golden Founder of the Shaare Zedek Medical Center and supporter of its Concert and Journal drives together with her late husband, Alexander. We extend condolences to her daughter, Mrs. Esther Kahn, her husband and children. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mour
 DHAR-Nandita. Died of cancer at age 51. Beloved wife of Lloyd Leventhal; loving mother of Vijay and Rajiv; devoted daughter of Subash and Neelu Dhar; and caring sister of Sanjay Dhar. A woman with a zest for living, honest almost to a fault and the truest friend to many. She graduated Phi B
 GLANZROCK-Ferne B. On February 20, 2003. Beloved wife of Sandy. Loving mother of Robin Raskin, her husband Larry and Mona Pasternack. Devoted daughter of Rose and the late Albert Lehman. Dear sister of Ellen Pludo, Lynne Aussprung and the late Barbara Susson. Brotherin-law of Irv Susson. Se
 KORNREICH-Jean. Age 94, on February 20, 2003. Beloved and devoted mother of Steve and Sherri; adored grandmother of Peter, Josh, Rob, Noah, Helene and Jennifer; and cherished great-grandmother of Matthew and Adam. She will be in our hearts and the angel on our shoulders always.       
 KRAUTHAMER - Barbara. On February 18, 2003. Loving sister of Elissa. Cherished and adored aunt of Jonathan, Sarah, Benjamin and Anne. Great-aunt of Julia, Mariah, Sophia and Elvis. Beloved companion of Jon Huntington. Remembered always for her grace and warmth, and admired for her artistic 
 MANTON - Florence V. ''Gretchen,'' passed away on February 14, 2003, after a long illness. She is survived by her husband, Sir Edwin A. G. Manton; a daughter, Diana Morton; two grandchildren, Julia Kropf and Sandra Niles; and five great-grandchildren. Services are scheduled for 3:00PM, Satu
 NADELMAN-Mollie. On February 19th, 2003. Born 1905 in Latvia. Predeceased by Irving, the love of her life. Survived by her children and their spouses: Emanuel and Alice Nadelman, Larry Chandler and Michael French, Carole Marmell and former son-in-law, Howard Marmell, and by her much loved g
 SLOATE-Elsie K., 96, a model mother, friend and philanthropist, she passed peacefully on February 18. She was there for me throughout my life, particularly when I needed her most. A woman of boundless generosity to her family and far-reaching circle of friends. She left an indelible mark on
 ALBERTINE - Margaret. A true American beauty, died at home on Friday, February 7, after a long and courageous battle with breast cancer. Her physical beauty was only surpassed by her passion for social justice and her love for animals. A lawyer and an expert on Arabian-Egyptian horses, she 
 KORNREICH-Jean. Age 94, on February 20, 2003. Beloved and devoted mother of Steve and Sherri; adored grandmother of Peter, Josh, Rob, Noah, Helene and Jennifer; and cherished great-grandmother of Matthew and Adam. She will be in our hearts and the angel on our shoulders always.       
 KOWEEK-Clara J. February 21, died in her home in Hudson, NY. Beloved wife of Albert for 66 years; loving mother of Barbara (Arthur) and Robert (Susan); devoted sister of Thyra; loving sisterin-law of Janice and Arthur; cherished grandmother of Marc (Janet), Lisa (Bill), Kira (Alan), Sharon,
 MANTON - Florence V. ''Gretchen,'' passed away on February 14, 2003, after a long illness. She is survived by her husband, Sir Edwin A. G. Manton; a daughter, Diana Morton; two grandchildren, Julia Kropf and Sandra Niles; and five great-grandchildren. Services are scheduled for 3:00PM, Satu
 NICHOLAS-Barbara Johnston, 94. Daughter of the late Franklin and Daisy Johnston. Cherished mother of David, Joan, Philip, Mary and the late Paul and Ann Nicholas. Dearest mother-in-law of Carole and Donette. Beloved grandmother of Michelle, Sean, Terry, Danielle, Michael, Diane, Catherine a
 SCHREIBER - Arlene. On Thursday, February 20, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Julius Schreiber. Daughter of the late Ethel and Jacob Perlman. Sister of brother Harold and late brother Lawrence Perlman. Cherished aunt of Yvonne Margo, Peter Frankel, Edith Cohen of Montreal, Canada and Yitzcha
 BERLIN-Muriel (Kashinsky). Left her family and friends on February 10, 2003 at the age of 78. She is survived by her husband Irving, children Leland Berlin and his wife Sherry, Patricia Berlin and her husband Victor Goldmerstein and grandchildren Blake, Marissa and Justin. She is still with
 BOROWIK-Angela. On February 20, 2003, age 100. Devoted wife of the late Lucian. Loving mother of Joan Kolobielski and Thomas Borowik. Grandmother of six. Greatgrandmother of four. Born in Poland, daughter of Abraham Gepner, a well-known elder of the Warsaw Ghetto. She escaped Nazi tyranny a
 DEMAJO-Fritzi. February 20, age 88, of San Diego, CA. Beloved mother of George Reich and sister of Renee Warring. Fritzi survived the Holocaust and worked as an assistant designer in NYC. She spoke several languages fluently. She was a music lover. Donations in her memory may be made to the
 FETT-Judith Doris. Passed away on February 13, 2003. She was a beloved cousin to Charlotte Cohen and Marci Diaz. Her thoughtfulness and kindness will stay with us forever. Services private.       
 FUCHS-Ruth. On February 19, 2003. Our loving most wonderful sister and guide. A devoted aunt and faithful cousin, she was also a dutiful and respectful daughter. Ruth was an industrious employee, trusted by her co-workers. She took care of all of us and was our center.       
 GLANZROCK-Ferne B. On February 20, 2003. Beloved wife of Sandy. Loving mother of Robin Raskin, her husband Larry and Mona Pasternack. Devoted daughter of Rose and the late Albert Lehman. Dear sister of Ellen Pludo, Lynne Aussprung and the late Barbara Susson. Brotherin-law of Irv Susson. Se
 HALLENBORG - Dorothy Peck. April 19, 1907-February 17, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Charles Edward Hallenborg. Loving mother of Patricia Hopkins Klotz. Grandmother of Radford, Leslie and Taylor Klotz and greatgrandmother of two. Interment private. Contributions in her memory made be made 
 HOLZER-Nina S. Barry. Beloved wife of Michael, loving and devoted daughter of Frances and Ralph, loving stepmother to Adam and Michele, Lara and Adam, adoring grandmother of Benjamin, wonderful teacher, friend and confidant. She walked with beauty, courage, dignity, intelligence, strength a
 JACOBSON-Neda, M.D. Psychiatrist, passed away on February 21, 2003 after a short but serious illness. She leaves bereaved her husband Ivan, daughters Natalie and Pamela, as well as numerous friends and patients. A Memorial service will be held at St. Thomas Church, 5th Ave & 53 St at 1:30PM
 KRIEGEL-Regina. On February 15, 2003. Devoted wife of the late Samuel Goldfield and the late Jacob Kriegel. Beloved mother of Esther and Hal Pollock, Yitzchak Goldfield, Rita and Sy Rotter, and Ruth & Sheldon Kriegel. Dear sister of Clara Rongil and the late Josef Halpern. Cherished grandmo
 MARANS-Rosalind. Beloved wife, mother, daughter, grandmother, at age 74. She too had a beautiful mind. The voices are now silent but the wonderful memories will linger forever. Memorial service will be March 16.       
 SKYDELL-Ruth. In memory of a very special and unique person whose kindness, charity, graciousness and humanity and whose love of the pursuit of knowledge have been instilled in and will continue to shine through her children and grandchildren. May her memory always be a source of inspiratio
 VAN BRUNT-Marion Rydholm. Died on February 14. Beloved wife of the late Edwin Van Brunt and sister of the late Lydia Reeve. A longtime resident of Chappaqua, NY, she was Citizen of the Year there in 1972. Survived by son Carl Van Brunt, daugher Laurie Schoen, and grandchildren Nicholas, Bry
 YERMAN-Sybil Sherri Berg. 84, on February 21, 2003 in New York City. Died at home surrounded by her family. Cherished wife of Elliott, devoted mother of Leslie, Douglas and Marcia. Adored and most special grandmother of Philip Samuel Dubow. She will be remembered for her wit and her devotio
 Baroness Liliane de Rothschild, the wife of Baron Elie de Rothschild, an art collector, philanthropist and meticulous caretaker of the history of the family she married into, died on Feb. 17 in her home in Royaumont, outside Paris. She was 86. Her husband, a member of the French bra
 ELIAS-Betty. Beloved wife of the late Ben Elias. Loving mother to Butch and Valerie, Jason and Birgit, Stanley and Terry, Estelle and Marty. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Loved by all who knew her. Her kindness will not be forgotten. Martin I. Elias and Family       
 GLANZROCK - Ferne. We lived through the best of times and she supported me through the darkest period of my life. A wonderful and dear friend. Forever I shall miss you. Sherry Hofmann-Ritter       
 HALLENBORG - Dorothy Peck. April 19, 1907-February 17, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Charles Edward Hallenborg. Loving mother of Patricia Hopkins Klotz. Grandmother of Radford, Leslie and Taylor Klotz and greatgrandmother of two. Interment private. Contributions in her memory made be made 
 LIPPERT-Felice. The Board of Directors of the Cancer Research and Treatment Fund mourns the death of Felice Lippert. Felice was a Board member of CR&T for many years, during which time she showed outstanding service to the cause of finding better and more complete treatments for cancer. She
 REILLY-Catherine Conley ''Casey'' (nee McGinness). Of Madison, NJ, and Bay Head, NJ, formerly of Chatham, NJ, on February 21, 2003. Wife of Walter F., mother of Andrew, Robert and Timothy Reilly and Melissa Teeter, grandmother of Robbie and Tommy and two sisters, Margo LaBarr and Maureen Mi
 TINGUE-Marjorie Cooper. Of Essex, CT, died February 22, 2003, in Middletown, CT. Wife of the late William M. Tingue and mother of the late Marjorie C. Tingue. Survived by her son William J. Tingue, three grandchildren, Margret, David, and Christopher, and three great - grandchildren. Memori
 BAM-Sheila Catherine, 48. Of Stamford, CT, passed away peacefully on Sunday, February 23, 2003, surrounded by family and friends. She is survived by her husband, Kenneth Kosakoff, their daughter, April, her parents, Margaret and Foster, her siblings, Carol and Eric and so many others whom s
 BAT AVI-Hagit, M.D., 46. Died on Feb. 23 after a valiant fight with cancer. Beloved daughter of Miriam, loving sister of Maty. Hagit was a fine physician and humanitarian, she will be missed by her loving family, many friends and colleagues whose lives were indelibly touched by her presence
 COHEN-Helen. On February 24, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Herbert. Loving mother of Pauline Sinclair, Martin and Michele Cohen, dear sister of Murray Schiffman, cherished Nana to Todd, Adam, Mollie and Barrie Cohen, Jared and Nicky Sinclair. Services private. Contributions in her memory m
 ELIAS-Betty. Beloved wife of the late Ben Elias. Loving mother to Butch and Valerie, Jason and Birgit, Stanley and Terry, Estelle and Marty. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Loved by all who knew her. Her kindness will not be forgotten. Martin I. Elias and Family       
 LEBOW-Ruth. Feb. 22, 2003. Beloved wife of 68 years to the late Sylvan Lebow. Loving mother of Mark Lebow and Joy Lebow Cohen. Adoring grandmother to Michael, Lauren, Jeffrey and Alexandra. Proud mother-in-law of Dr. William Cohen and Patricia E. Harris. Burial private. LEBOW-Ruth. 
 LIPPERT - Felice. The trustees of the North ShoreLong Island Jewish Health System mourn the passing of one of our most dedicated supporters, Felice Lippert. She and her late husband, Albert, a former trustee of the Health System, were generous benefactors. The Lippert Pavilion is named afte
 MADISON-Margaret K. Of Salisbury, CT and Naples, FL. Loving wife of Lawrence Madison. Died on February 18 in Salisbury. A devoted wife and mother. Margaret was for her entire life devoted to community service and liberal causes. She was the loving mother of Alan & Lawrence Madison and grand
 MEYERS-Edna. We mourn the passing of our beloved ''Nanny''. Her mission in life was devotion to her adoring family, who are a living testament to her boundless love and caring. The epitome of grace and beauty for 91 years, she was our source of strength in both joyous & tragic times. Devote
 MILLER-Amy Bess Williams 90. Of Pittsfield, Mass died on February 23, 2003. She was the founding president of Hancock Shaker Village and the widow of Lawrence Kelton Miller. She leaves a daughter, Margo Miller of Boston, MA; three sons, Kelton B. Miller II of Shaftsbury, VT, Michael G. Mill
 MURPHY-Claire. Of New York City and Kent, CT on February 24, 2003, at NY Presbyterian Hospital. Daughter of the late Lillian & Peter Murphy; sister of Daniel R. Murphy of Williamsville, NY and the late Peter J. Murphy, Mary Alice Murphy, Emmett R. Murphy and Gerald J. Murphy. Beloved by six
 REILLY - Mary P. (nee Walsh) of Manhattan and Sag Harbor. On February 23, 2003. From the age of 13 until her retirement she was a church organist in NYC. Beloved wife for 54 years of Gerard. Loving mother of Pat, Terry, Michael, Margaret and Chrissy. Devoted grandmother of Ellen, Kate, Giul
 ROBBINS-Eleanor L. ''Elly''. Died peacefully in her sleep in her New York apartment on February 16th at 85. She served for 11 years as Chairman of Public Relations for Greater New York for the American Red Cross. Elly Robbins began her Red Cross career in 1939 and put in 49 years of dedicat
 SKYDELL-Dr. Ruth. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Rabbi Adrian Skydell on the loss of his beloved wife. An active and longtime member of the National Women's Division Board, Ruth was a special lady, whose kindness touched so many. A Golden Founder of the Medical Center, together with
 WALT-Rose. February 15, 2003 in Los Angeles, CA after a lengthy illness. Survived by sons Ira and Mark, daughter Barbara, stepdaughters Barbara and Jo Beth, sister Ruth, seven grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Rose was an active member in Workman's Circle and loved her work as an
 WELKES-Gertrude. On February 24, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Nathaniel and Gary and mother-in-law of Toni and Sandra, cherished grandmother to Jodie, Ethan, Ayala and Avi. Services were held on Monday. WELKES - Gertrude. The Jewish Center mourns the passi
 Amy Bess Williams Miller, who helped found Hancock Shaker Village, a restoration of a former Shaker community and a museum, died on Sunday at her home in Pittsfield, Mass. She was 90. Mrs. Miller, an expert on the Shaker religious movement, was president of Hancock Shaker Village In
 BIEDERMAN - Sondra. Be loved wife of the late Gerald. Loving mother of Eric and Lynn and the late Larry Biederman. Most wonderful and special sister to Renee Novak. Cherished and adored grandmother of Bradley and Gabrielle. Service today, 12 noon, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad
 CARROLL-Joan. Of Rehoboth Beach, DE. Joan Carroll was born Joan Neilson on February 13, 1926 in Philadelphia, PA. Since 1980 she has been a resident of Rehoboth Beach, DE. After a long illness she passed away on February 23, 2003 surrounded by her six surviving children. Mrs. Carroll served
 DURST-Anne. Sweet loving mother of Barbara Macklowe and Derek Peter Durst. Wife of the late Joseph Durst. Grandmother of Amanda, Benjamin and Hillary Macklowe. Mother - in - law of Lloyd Macklowe. We will dearly miss her.       
 ELIAS-Betty. Beloved wife of the late Ben Elias. Loving mother to Butch and Valerie, Jason and Birgit, Stanley and Terry, Estelle and Marty. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Loved by all who knew her. Her kindness will not be forgotten. Martin I. Elias and Family       
 FAIRBERG-Maralyn Beth. Beloved daughter of the late Fred and Harriet Fairberg died February 25. A very special person, whose intelligence, sense of style, skill as a lawyer, love of cooking and entertaining, and support of the Avon Breast Cancer Walk will always be remembered. A wonderful p
 FISCHMAN-Gloria R., 79. Passed away on February 22nd, 2003. She was a former resident of Scarsdale, NY for 35 years and a resident of Tucson since 1981. Gloria graduated from Mount Holyoke College in 1944. She was preceded in death by her husband, DeWitt. Survived by Joanne (Howard) Adams, 
 GERRY-Louisa Livingston, 39. Died in New York Presbyterian Hospital after a long illness on February 24, 2003. Beloved daughter of Elbridge T. and Caroline A. Gerry of Locust Valley, N.Y. Sister of Elbridge T. Gerry III of New Canaan, CT., Ellen G. Breed of Greenwich, CT., Alison G. Rodney 
 LIPPERT-Felice. The Hunter College community notes with sorrow the passing of our dear friend, a devoted alumna and member of our Hall of Fame. We extend deepest sympathy to her family. Jennifer J. Raab, President, Hunter College, CUNY LIPPERT-Felice. She was the epitome of a cosmop
 MARKOWITZ - Judith. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Judith Markowitz, beloved mother of Amy Stavis, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. A board member of the JCC of Mid-Westchester, Amy and her husband, Rob, a member of our Bo
 ROBBINS - Eleanor. The Board of Trustees of the American Red Cross in Greater New York and the staff mourn the passing of Eleanor ''Elly'' Robbins who served the American Red Cross energetically for more than 49 years. The recipient of our highest volunteer award, we deeply appreciate her v
 SKYDELL-Dr. Ruth H. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a deeply cherished leader in the Jewish community and member of the Board of Governors of the Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology, the beloved wife of Rabbi Adrian Skydell who, as YU Guardians, established the Ruth K.
 COPPENRATH-Lucette Van Lommel. 1932-1996 She was our pride and joy. Bob, Margaret and Martina       
 Eve Stillman, a retired lingerie designer who also owned and led the lingerie company that bore her name, died on Friday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 97. In the 1940's when Gracette Lingerie, a company founded by her husband, Harry Stillman, encountered financial problems
 Felice Marks Lippert, in whose kitchen Weight Watchers was hatched 40 years ago, died on Saturday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Mrs. Lippert was 73 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan and in West Palm Beach, Fla
 BARTNER-Saura. February 25, 2003. Teacher of the Alexander Technique. As peaceful dying as she was graceful in life. Loving family and community member. Wife of Dr. Paul Aaron; mother of Shem and Nataw Bartner-Aaron; daughter of Elliot and Thelma Bartner; sister of Jay and Dr. Robert Bartne
 DORMENT - Marguerite (O'Callaghan). Of Monmouth Beach, formerly of Montclair, NJ on February 23, 2003. Mrs. Dorment, Peggy as she was known, was a graduate of Georgian Court College. She was a past member and Women's Golf Champion at the Montclair Golf Club, Upper Montclair Golf Club, the D
 GERRY-Louisa Livingston, 39. Died in New York Presbyterian Hospital after a long illness on February 24, 2003. Beloved daughter of Elbridge T. and Caroline A. Gerry of Locust Valley, N.Y. Sister of Elbridge T. Gerry III of New Canaan, CT., Ellen G. Breed of Greenwich, CT., Alison G. Rodney 
 GRIEFF-Ruth M. On February 25, 2003 at the age of 90. Beloved aunt of Sandra Cohen of Suffern, NY and Annette Kaufman of Boca Raton, FL. Loving great aunt and greatgreat aunt. She was born on August 8, 1912 in Little Falls, NY to Sam and Selina Grieff. She was the sister of the late Celia L
 HALL-Marianne. Our beloved colleague, so instrumental to our endeavors, brought us joy, humor and music. We will miss her dearly. Jennifer J. Raab, President Sanford Wurmfeld, Chair Members, Department of Art Hunter College       
 LIPPERT-Felice. She was the epitome of a cosmopolitan woman. Her love, laughter, kindess and warmth will always be remembered. Our deepest sympathy to her children and grandchildren. Priscilla, Sol, Jordan and Jill       
 VOSK-Jeannette S. Age 94, died February 26, 2003 at her home in Williamsport, PA. For many years, she was the school psychologist for the Board of Education in New York City. She is survived by her son, Dr. Arno D. Vosk, and two grandchildren.       
 WEINER-Rabbi Eugene. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Rabbi Eugene Weiner, beloved husband of Anita Weiner, a visionary and gifted teacher, and former interim Rabbi of the Jewish Center. We extend deepest condolences to Anita and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rab
 DISARLE-Bobbie. Remembering Mom on her birthday. Remembering love       
 CHUBAK-Ida. Died February 24, 2003. Holocaust survivor. Beloved wife of Benjamin, mother of Gary (Lillian), Bruce (Shera) and Michael (Susan). Sister of Martin and Arthur Bard, Hilda Fishbein and Esther Gorny. Trusted 20 year employee of Bank Leumi in Manhattan and Boro Park, Brooklyn. Love
 LEVINE-Vera, 79. Of No. Palm Beach, Florida, late of Hewlett, Long Island, died on February 24, 2003. Beloved wife of Henry I. Levine, loving mother of Joel and Roger Levine and Louise Webber, devoted grandmother of Annie Levine and dear sister of Harriet Schnur. Memorial to be held at Rive
 LIPPERT-Felice. The Board of Directors and membership of The American Ireland Fund mourn the death of our dear friend, Felice Lippert, who, with her late husband Al, was a central member of the AIF Family. Her wit, charm and potent persuasiveness, matched only by her total commitment to her
 PLAPINGER-Alice Einstein of Washington, D.C., on February 22, 2003. She is survived by her husband of almost 53 years Jerome S. Plapinger; her son William A. Plapinger and his wife Kathleen J. Murray and their children Alexander, Elizabeth and Thomas; her daughter Elizabeth Schaap Plapinger
 RESSEGUIER-Olga W. Born in Vienna, Austria, November 16, 1915. Wife of Clemens Resseguier. Mother of John H. Wyman and Virginia W. Meyer. Loving grandmother of Christina, Charles, Edward and Katharine. Predeceased by her first husband, Charles A. Wyman and son Thomas. Contributions may be m
