 Joan Guggenheimer, a soft-spoken lawyer who had the ear of the chief executives at two of the world's biggest banks, died Sunday at her home near Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 54. The cause was colon cancer, her husband, Peter, said. As general counsel of Citigroup and later of J.
 BERMAN--Ella. JBI International, formerly the Jewish Braille Institute, is saddened by the passing of Ella Berman, a longtime Trustee and Advisory Council member. We pray that her memory will endure as a continuing blessing and inspiration for the entire family. Judy E. Tenney, Chairman Bar
 CARLIN--Roslyn. On Saturday, July 29, 2006, formerly of West Palm Beach, FL, and Valley Stream, NY. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Carlin. Loving mother of Steven H. (Jane) Carlin and the late Robert A. Carlin, and motherin-law of Barbara Carlin. Dear grandmother of Jessica, Claire and Sam
 FRIEDMAN--Lynn. Lynnie, whose heart and home were always open, fulfilled her mission on July 26 . Marna, Dennis, Sarina, Arielle       
 KRIVITSKY--Maria (nee Martins) of New York City and Water Mill, NY. On July 28, 2006. Beloved wife of David. Maria was born June 11, 1933 in Bristol, RI. After graduating St. Mary's Seminary as class valedictorian, she graduated Albertus Magnus College in 1954. To hone her administrative an
 GUGGENHEIMER--Joan. A client, a role model, a mentor, and most indelibly, a friend. For more then a decade, Joan inspired me with her brilliance and taught me lessons I will draw upon forever. Like so many she touched, I cannot adequately thank Joan for sharing her generous spirit and her u
 FRIEDMAN--Lynn. Lynnie, whose heart and home were always open, fulfilled her mission on July 26 . The Fierman Family       
 HENDERSON--Barbara Pressprich. A Celebration of Life service will be held at 2:00 p.m. August 8 at Trinity Episcopal Church, Pequot Avenue at Center Street, Southport, CT (Exit 19 off I95). A reception will follow at the Country Club of Fairfield, 936 Sasco Hill Rd (off Route 1). Donations 
 ROFFER--Marion. Accomplished sculptor, teacher, designer. Dear Sara Ellen to the late Monroe, her childhood sweetheart. Paragon of Ardsley pool & tennis parties. Truly loved by all who knew her. Survived by daughters Susan Weintraub (Robert); sons Steven (Robin) and Alan; four grandchildren
 WARNER--Claudia H. died July 29, 2006 in Sharon, CT. Predeceased by her husband, Donald and her son Peter; mother of Beth, Chris (Nancy), Sara (Stephen), Jessica (Donovan); grandmother of Sam and Hannah; sister of Davis. Service on August 4, 2006 at 11 AM at St. John's Episcopal Church, Sal
 GUGGENHEIMER--Joan. A client, a role model, a mentor, and most indelibly, a friend. For more then a decade, Joan inspired me with her brilliance and taught me lessons I will draw upon forever. Like so many she touched, I cannot adequately thank Joan for sharing her generous spirit and her u
 TERES - SCHNEIDER--Sha ron, 58, mother of Andy and Jenny Schneider of Belvedere, CA, died peacefully at home of lymphoma surrounded by family and friends on the night of July 29, 2006. She was strong, adventuresome, generous and intelligent, and all who knew her will always admire and miss 
 YARMOLINSKY--Sarah. The Board of Directors and staff of Union Settlement Association deeply mourn the passing of Sally Yarmolinsky, our longtime Director of Development. She will be missed.       
 ANTONOFF--Sarah R. 77, of North Hills, NY on August 1, 2006. Beloved and devoted wife of Rubin for 52 years, loving sister to Don and Lavonne Suss, the late Larry and Dorothy Suss, and Arlene Special, caring sister-in-law to the late Bernie Antonoff, Esther Antonoff, the late Sarah ''Gypsy'
 APPELBAUM--Gertrude Helen. passed away on July 17. She was born February 20, 1908 to Celia Cohen and David Appelbaum and is survived by her sister Sylvia and brother Burton. As casting director in the Broadway theater, where Gertrude was known as Apple, she had an eye for young, untried tal
 BLANC - Charlotte. Passed away August 1, 2006. Devoted mother of Michele Berman and Susan Lein and motherin-law of John Berman and Torod Lein. Cherished grandmother of Amanda, Christal and Silver and great-grandmother. She will be remembered by all with a smile. Services Thursday 11:15 am a
 DAN--Gloria. Passed away after a short illness on Monday, July 31, 2006. Wife of the late Julius, mother of Richard (Carolyn), Dan and Stephanie (Steven) Richman, grandmother of Eric, Amanda, Aaron and the late Frank. Funeral services will be held Friday, August 4, at 11 AM at the Riverside
 LEVITT--Lillian. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President       
 LOEFFLER--Bella, 86. Bella would have needed 100 more years, at least, to cram in all the things she wanted to see and do. Such was her joy of life. A life filled with family and friends who adored her, who she in turn loved dearly. Memorial Friday, August 4, 11AM, at Schwartz Brothers Memo
 NAGOURNEY--Mary in her 94th year. Survived by son James Nagourney, daughter Joan Lesser (Peter), granddaughters Adrienne Nagourney, Cathryn Kaufman, Victoria Goldstein & six great-grandchildren. She will be with us whenever we have to make a tough call & when we laugh at our problems.      
 Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, the German-born soprano whose interpretations of Strauss and Mozart made her one of the most dazzling artists of her time, died yesterday at her home in Austria. She was 90. Her death was reported by Austrian state television. Citing a funeral home director, t
 BERG--Evelyn, Past President of the Secretary's Chapter of the UFT; Executive Committee Member of the UFT; Payroll Secretary at the Bronx High School of Science. Mrs. Berg succumbed to an undisclosed illness on August 1, 2006. Services will be held on Sunday, August 6, 11 AM, at Plaza Jewis
 D'ANGELO--Gonda. Beloved wife of Michael D'Angelo. Loving mother of Carolyn Marvin, Lisa D'Angelo, and Cynthia D'Angelo. Dear friend and sister of Margot Suesheim and devoted mother-in-law of Chris Marvin and David Kaput. Adored grandmother of Nicole Marvin and Andrew, William, Jeremy and A
 DAN--Gloria. Passed away after a short illness on Monday, July 31, 2006. Wife of the late Julius, mother of Richard (Carolyn), Dan and Stephanie (Steven) Richman, grandmother of Eric, Amanda, Aaron and the late Frank. Funeral services will be held Friday, August 4, at 11 AM at the Riverside
 EINSIDLER - Helen. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Helen Einsidler, beloved mother of our dedicated Ritual Director, Rabbi Harold Einsidler (Toby). She was an inspiration to her family. May the family find comfort among the mourners of Zion and Jeruselem. Rabbi Arthur Schneier    
 FELDMAN--Lenore. A friend for all ages. Our memories will last forever. Fran and Morty $(6$)FELDMAN Fischler --Lenore (nee Spiewak), 70, on August 3rd in Manhattan. Past national and local president of National Council of Jewish Women. Beloved wife of Ed Fischler and the late Dr. Ge
 FISCH--Edith. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Edith Fisch. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Marcia
 JAKIWCZYK--Roma Alexandra, 37, passed away August 1 after a courageous, all-out battle with cancer. She was a wonderful and extraordinary woman. Beloved wife of Guy. Loving mother of Jules. Beloved daughter of Stephanie and Lubomyr. Adored sister of Olga. Cherished niece of Eugene and Helen
 RAVEN--Arlene 62, noted feminist writer and art historian died August 1 of cancer. Beloved partner of artist Nancy Grossman. Devoted sister of Phyllis Gelman. Cherished daughter of Joe and Annette Rubin. Arlene was a friend and mentor to several generations of artists and will be keenly mis
 SALVADORI--Carol. Died on August 1 at eighty-nine after a long illness. Loving widow of Mario, mother of Michael Kazin and grandmother of Daniel and Maia Kazin. Advertising executive and volunteer for humanitarian causes who led a joyful and generous life. Memorial service in the early fall
 SCHWARZKOPF - Elisabeth. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, who made her Met debut in 1964 in one of her most celebrated roles, the Marschallin in ''Der Rosenkavalier.'' She was one of the great sopranos of the twentieth century. We extend our condolences to h
 COHEN--Selma Breslaw. 90, of Washington, DC and formerly of Schenectady, NY and Delray Beach, FL, died of leukemia on August 2, 2006. Loving wife of the late Louis Cohen, MD of Schenectady, NY, and beloved mother of Royce E. Cohen of Alexandria, VA and Jane C. Bergner (Alfred P. Bergner, de
 MUNCAN--Mihaela, M.D. The Department of Psychiatry of Maimonides Medical Center mourns the loss of our esteemed and beloved colleague, Mihaela Muncan, M.D. Dr. Muncan was the Director of the Inpatient Psychiatry Unit of our Community Mental Health Center. Dr. Muncan was an inspiration and a
 VOGEL--Virginia. A residentof Manhattan, died on June 27, 2006. She was 69. Artist, painted abstract. Memorial donations may be made to the Scholarship Fund at Pratt Institute, Box A, 200 Willoughby Ave, Brooklyn, NY 11205. Contact Marilyn, 215-803-2813       
 Andrée Ruellan, a noted painter of the 1930's and 40's whose complete body of work spans almost the entire 20th century, died on July 15 in Kingston, N.Y. She was 101 and lived for many years in Shady, N.Y., near Woodstock. Her death was confirmed by a friend, Daniel Gelfand. Ms. R
 Arlene Raven, a pioneering historian and advocate of women's art, died Tuesday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 62. The cause was cancer, said the Michael Rosenfeld Gallery, which represents her companion, the artist Nancy Grossman. In 1973 Ms. Raven was a founder, with the 
 FISCH--Edith L. Born March 3, 1923, NYC, died suddenly, August 3, 2006, in Lenox Hill Hospital. Widow of Stephen L. Werner, Esq. She is survived by her sister Dorothy Thomashower, brothers-inlaw Sidney Thomashower, Robert L. Werner, and Robert's wife, Raye Werner, loving nephews, William an
 JOHNSON--Stella, 77, of Chappaqua, NY died on August 4, 2006 at her home. Beloved wife of Dr. James F. Johnson. Loving mother of Niki Johnson and her partner Barbara, Peter Johnson and his wife Tory, Margaret Johnson, and Kate Johnson and her husband Michael, all of New York City. Devoted g
 JONES--Timi Curland (aka Thelma Rhoda Curland Jones) Timi Jones died July 8, 2006, in Grand Rapids, MI. She was born in the first half of the 20th century in New York City to Nathan and Sonia Eva Curland and raised in Providence, RI. Timi married Stanley George Jacobs, settling in Briarclif
 KRINSKY--Josephine B. 93, died in New York City on August 4,2006. Widow of Dr.Milton, mother of Robert D.(Carol), Edward B.(Roberta),William L.(Suzanne), and sister of Clifford A.Bachrach (Leona), grandmother of 8, great-grandmother of 7. BA Vassar '33, MLS Pratt '67 Beloved wife and mother
 MULLANEY--Mary A. (nee Conway) on Friday, August 4, 2006. Wife of the late James A. Devoted mother of AnneMarie Caramanica and her husband Keith. Loving grandmother of Marisa and Gianna. Dear sister of Gerald Conway and Martha Becker. Reposing at Martin A. Gleason Funeral Home, 149-20 North
 MUNCAN--Mihaela, M.D. The Department of Psychiatry of Maimonides Medical Center mourns the loss of our esteemed and beloved colleague, Mihaela Muncan, M.D. Dr. Muncan was the Director of the Inpatient Psychiatry Unit of our Community Mental Health Center. Dr. Muncan was an inspiration and a
 ROBBINS--Selma S., 81.Died July 31, after a long illness. Beloved wife of Joseph E. Robbins for nearly 60 years, mother of Rochelle and Carla, grandmother of Jeff, Greg and Annie. Selma will be sorely missed for her wit and intelligence, her extraordinary presence and exceptional accomplish
 ROTHSCHILD--Edith. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Ralph and Sandra Rothschild and Steven and Linda Rothschild on the loss of their cherished mother. As the regal and elegant matriarch of the family, Edith had a deep love and devotion to her family and to the State of Israel. May the
 DAVIS - MINTON -- Dorothy Kraus, 103, died peacefully on July 31st in Manhattan. Loving wife of Arthur P. Davis and Lt. Col. Gustav Minton, Jr. Mother of Dorothy Anne Brimberg and Peter Minton and stepmother of Mary Barber. Adored grandmother of three and great grandmother of four. Step gra
 FELDMAN - FISCHLER--Len ore. The National Council of Jewish Women is deeply saddened by the loss of a distinguished leader and dear friend, Lenore Feldman-Fischler. Lenore dedicated herself to improving the lives of women, children, and families here and in Israel. During her tenure as NCJW
 KAMMERMAN--Beatrice Barnstone. Passed away on August 4, 2006 on her 91st birthday. She was predeceased by her ''Prince,'' Oscar, in 1979. Beatrice will be remembered lovingly by her children John, Lesley, Mickey and Steve, her grandchildren Joshua, Kathy, James, Rachel, Nicholas and Suzanne
 TERES - SCHNEIDER--Sha ron, 58, mother of Andy and Jenny Schneider of Belvedere, CA, died peacefully at home of lymphoma surrounded by family and friends on the night of July 29, 2006. She was strong, adventuresome, generous and intelligent, and all who knew her will always admire and miss 
 TRAVELSTEAD--Edythe M. On June 11th, 2006, the world lost a brilliant, accomplished, courageous, dynamic person with a zest for life and a commitment to her community. Edythe M. Travelstead, a woman of valor, lost her valiant fight with breast cancer in her 64th year. Edythe was a survivor 
 WIDES--Ruth. August 10, 2001. Remembered for her love, beauty and sage counsel. She is deeply missed       
 BIALER--Rina. Beloved and dedicated staff member of The JCC on the Palisades for 30 years. Her devotion to the Center, Jewish community and Israel was boundless. We extend heartfelt condolences to her daughters, grandchildren, sister and entire family. Service Monday, 11 am, The JCC, 411 Cl
 DAVIDOFF--Doris (nee Sherman). Beloved wife of the late Dr. Arthur Davidoff, on August 5th, 2006. Devoted mother of Dr. Elliot Davidoff, grandmother of Adam and Michael Davidoff and greatgrandmother of Eli, Lily and Noah Davidoff. She is also survived by daughter-in-law Marjorie, granddaugt
 FISCH--Edith L. Born March 3, 1923, NYC, died suddenly, August 3, 2006, in Lenox Hill Hospital. Widow of Steven L. Werner, Esq. She is survived by her sister Dorothy Thomashower, brothers-in-law Sidney Thomashower, Robert L. Werner, and Robert's wife, Raye Werner, loving nephews, William an
 GROBMAN--Roslyn, on August 6th, 2006. Daughter of the late Daniel and Pauline Kanfer. Beloved wife of Frank. Loving mother of Ellen (Vandy), Richard (Jody), and Paul (Michelle). Devoted grandmother of Gabriel, David, Daniel, Brian, Rachel, Suzanna, Matthew and Katie. Beloved sister of Arlin
 HULACK--Carol. A brownstone pioneer on Manhattan's West Side, died August 4, at her New York home after a two year sarcoma battle. She was 70. Her sister Lorraine M. Weil, is US Bankruptcy Judge, Connecticut District. Mrs. Hulack was an active partner with her husband Larry in Lanfred Prope
 KRINSKY--Josephine B. 93, died in New York City on August 4,2006. Widow of Dr.Milton, mother of Robert D.(Carol), Edward B.(Roberta),William L.(Suzanne), and sister of Clifford A.Bachrach (Leona), grandmother of 8, great-grandmother of 7. BA Vassar '33, MLS Pratt '67 Beloved wife and mother
 Susan Butcher, a pioneer for women in sled-dog racing who won the Iditarod race four times and influenced the training and treatment of dogs in the sport, died Saturday at a hospital in Seattle. She was 51. The cause was leukemia, said Dr. Jan Abkowitz, the lead physician who treate
 Dr. Jean Baker Miller, a psychiatrist who disputed traditional notions of social roles and developed a theory that serves as a foundation for treating women's depression and other disorders through the building of fruitful relationships, died on July 29 at her home in Brookline, Mass. She w
 GOFF--BethTwiggar, died Sunday in her home after a long illness, five days before her 93rd birthday. Perhaps the best description of Beth is in her book Understanding Backwards: ''A post-flapper, BA and spontaneous feminist, Beth went out into Depression-USA with a lot of living to do. Over
 GOODSIDE--Ray nee Rose, 95, of Mount Vernon, NY, passed away at home on August 2, 2006. Widow of her beloved husband, Dr. VictorGoodside, she is survived by their daughters, Fran Feigert (Frank), Marian Goodside, and Elaine Stone(Bob), her sister, Evelyn Perlman, her sister-in-law, Grace Pa
 GREENE--Sarah (Shenk), of Great Neck, NY, East Pointe, FL and South Egremont, MA, beloved wife for 63 years of Dr. Louis Greene, DDS, passed away peacefully with her three children and their families by her bedside on Sunday, August 6th. She was born January 16th, 1919 to Hannah and Israel 
 GROBMAN--Roslyn. We will always have wonderful memories of our life-long friend Roz. She will live in our hearts forever. Our deepest sympathy to Frank and Arline and their loving families. Gloria & Harvey Levine and Family $(6$)GROBMAN--Roz. Dan's Supreme Supermarkets, the extended family 
 HEFTER--Rose. Born September 15th, 1904 died on August 6th. She was much loved by her children, grandchildren, great grandchildren and the many friends who were fortunate to know her. Pinochle/poker player, craftswoman extraordinaire. Funeral Services were at Beth Moses Cemetery Monday Augu
 MUHLSTOCK--Helen ofHackensack, formerly of Teaneck, NJ. Survived by her husband Robert, sons Steven and Andrew (Nancy), granchildren Rae and Daniel. Services Wednesday, 11:30am at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt 4 East, Paramus, NJ.       
 MUNCAN--Mihaela, MD. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center is extremely saddened by the sudden death of Dr. Mihaela Muncan. Dr. Muncan was associated with the Department of Psychiatry for over 15 years. She did her training at Maimonides Medical Center and then joined the Psychiatr
 O'NEILL--Helen N. (nee Murphy), 63, of Somers, NY, a former 62 year resident of Brooklyn, died August 6 at her home. Born August 10, 1942 in Brooklyn to Patrick and Catherine Murphy, now deceased. She was a senior administrative assistant with the NYC transit authority in Brooklyn. Beloved 
 SHOSS--Jane Duncan, 78 Died at her home in Hilton Head SC on August 3, with her devoted husband of 59 years Dr. Milton (''Mike'') Shoss at her side. Mrs. Shoss was a native of Webb City and Cape Girardeau MO. She is also survived by her daughter, Cynthia Shoss(Watson), a partner in LeBoeuf 
 DAVIS - MINTON -- Dorothy Kraus, 103, died peacefully on July 31st in Manhattan. Loving wife of Arthur P. Davis and Lt. Col. Gustav Minton, Jr. Mother of Dorothy Anne Brimberg and Peter Minton and stepmother of Mary Barber. Adored grandmother of three and great grandmother of four. Step gra
 GOULD--Ruth C., 89, died on Saturday, July 15, 2006 in New York City, her home in recent years. Ms. Gould was born in Minnesota and lived in Minneapolis for many years. She was appointed the first Chairman of the Mayor's Commission on Human Relations by Mayor Arthur Naftalin. Ms. Gould move
 HEICKLEN--Lewis. JBI International offers its deepest condolences to Trustee Jane Zolot on the death of her father whose memory will surely be a blessing. Judy E. Tenney, Chairman of the Board Dr. Ellen Isler, Pres. & CEO Israel A. Taub, VP & CFO       
 ISRAEL--Carole Rose. American Friends of Midreshet B'erot Bat Ayin mourns the death of our founder, Chaya Tova bat Chananya Hacohen and Chana on 7 Adar (August 1). She was a true woman of valor and a beautiful soul. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Jonas, her sons Shimon a
 LIPSON--May Fine. Members and candidates of the Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research (IPTAR) mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend May Fine Lipson. May was a founder of IPTAR and an active member for nearly 50 years. She touched the lives of so many people as a t
 SAPHIRE--Rose died peacefully on August 7th in Palm Harbor, Fl; 4 months short of her 100th birthday. Born December 9th, 1906 in Bayonne, NJ, daughter of the late Reuben and Freda Rockoff, eldest sister of her late siblings Louis, Abe and Ruth, beloved wife of the late E. William, adored mo
 WIGOR--Dorothy. Wife of the late Albert L. Wigor and Jack Berman. Devoted mother of Hope A. Berman and Billee Berman Litvack. Loving grandmother of Jack (Cheri) Litvack, Debra (Michael) Kamensky and Gina Litvack. Also survived by six great grandchildren. Graveside services will be held at M
 LIEBERBAUM--Gloria. On August 7, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Jack, loving mother of Kelly and Jeffrey Langberg, cherished grandmother of Harley and Logan Langberg. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Wednesday August 9, 2006 at 11:30 AM Frank E. Campbell, 107
 STELLA - SERRA--Leticia. She was an interior designer and photographer, passed away at her residence with her family and friends present on August 4, 2006. Loving daughter of Anita Serra-Blanco. Memorial service will be held on Thursday August 10th at 7 P.M. at Grace Church, Broadway at 10t
 Melissa Hayden, one of American ballet's greatest ballerinas, whose exultant, dramatic style defied the supposed impersonal mold of the ''Balanchine dancer,'' making her one of New York City Ballet's first international stars, died yesterday at her home in Winston-Salem, N.C. She was 83.   
 EMMER--Ruth. Died August 6, 2006 in Seattle, WA at the age of 85. She was preceded in death by her loving husband Martin. She is survived by son Fred, daughter Hilary, grandson Josh Gray-Emmer, granddaughters Tamar Dunn and Natasha Dunn, and sister Florence Weissman. Ruth was born, raised a
 FEIN--Gertrude. On August 4, 2006 at the age of 90. In accordance with her wishes, her body was donated to the Anatomical Program, New Jersey Medical School. Remembered for her wit and directness, a champion player of tennis, Duplicate Bridge and The New York Times crossword puzzles. She wi
 HAYDEN--Melissa. Melissa Hayden was one of the great ballerinas of her time. She was a principal dancer at New York City Ballet from 1955 to 1973, and George Balanchine choreographed leading roles for her in over 20 of his ballets, including such masterpieces as Agon, Liebeslieder Walzer, A
 LAWRENCE--Suzanne Walbridge, on Tuesday, August8, 2006, of Babylon, N.Y. Wife of the late Bryan Lawrence. Survived by her son Bryan H. Lawrence, and his wife Dr. Betsy Lawrence, and her daughters Suzanne L. Goldhirsch and Jane W. Lawrence and her husband Fred Millhiser. She is also survived
 SAPHIRE--Rose died peacefully on August 7th in Palm Harbor, Fl; 4 months short of her 100th birthday. Born December 9th, 1906 in Bayonne, NJ, daughter of the late Reuben and Freda Rockoff, eldest sister of her late siblings Louis, Abe and Ruth, beloved wife of the late E. William, adored mo
 SCHLEGEL--Stacy. Beloved wife of Jack. Loving mother of Sandee and Steve, Jan and Tommy, and Beth and Jay. Cherished grandmother of Jessica, Jordan, Brendan, Samantha and Caitlyn. Dear sister of Phyllis and Murray and Marilyn and Marvin. Devoted aunt and friend to many. Services ''Boulevard
 GELFAND--Pauline. Born September 13, 1909, died August 9, 2006. Beloved mother, loyal friend and proud active supporter of Jewish Women International, B'nai Brith and the Anti-Defamation League. She is survived by a daugher, Carol of Manhattan and a son Thomas of Brooklyn. Services Sunday A
 GOULD--Sally Blauner, 81. Died suddenly in NYC on August 10. She is survived by her children Karen Curtis, J. Robert Weitz, Eileen Gould, Barbara Gould, Thomas Gould and James Gould and several grandchildren. A memorial service will be held in September.       
 HAYDEN--Melissa. We owe a debt of gratitude to the spirit, discipline, artistry and commitment of Millie. A convert and then a disciple of Mr. Balanchine, she endeavored to communicate a sense of artistic credibility to an art form that is often obscure. There was never an obstacle that she
 LAWRENCE--Suzanne Walbridge, on Tuesday, August8, 2006, of Babylon, N.Y. Wife of the late Bryan Lawrence. Survived by her son Bryan H. Lawrence, and his wife Dr. Betsy Lawrence, and her daughters Suzanne L. Goldhirsch and Jane W. Lawrence and her husband Fred Millhiser. She is also survived
 STEINER--Hally Yaccino, 36, on August 10, died of complications from breast cancer in NYC. Beloved wife of Michael, and daughter of Arlene and Ralph Yaccino of Suffern, NY. She will be dearly missed by her sister Lisa Yaccino Rogers; her brotherin-law Rick Rogers and nephew Ryder of Portlan
 GOULD--Sally Blauner, 81. Died suddenly in NYC on August 10. She is survived by her children Karen Curtis, J. Robert Weitz, Eileen Gould, Barbara Gould, Thomas Gould and James Gould and several grandchildren. A memorial service will be held in September.       
 BLEIER--Selma (nee Karger), 92, of Parkland, FL, passed away August 10, 2006. She is survived by her beloved daughters Karen (Joseph) Green and Nancy (Jerry) Edelman; cherished grandchildren Bonnie, Michael, Fran, Jessica and Adam; adored great-grandchildren Allison, Joshua and Andrew. Sist
 GOULD--Sally Blauner, 81. Died suddenly in NYC on August 10. She is survived by her children Karen Curtis, J. Robert Weitz, Eileen Gould, Barbara Gould, Thomas Gould and James Gould and several grandchildren. A memorial service will be held in September.       
 HAYDEN--Melissa. The entire School of American Ballet family mourns the death of Melissa Hayden, one of America's greatest ballerinas. Her consummate artistry, her professionalism, her steely technique and hercolorful personality will long be remembered. We send deepest condolences to the C
 MAH--Dr. Caroline. The community of Weill Cornell, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital & Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center mourns the untimely passing of our beloved colleague, Dr. Caroline Mah. A gifted, dedicated physician, an inspiring teacher, and a lover of life, she was a constant re
 NEEDELL--Frank. On Friday, August 11, 2006, of Florham Park, NJ. Husband of the late Sally and the late Betty. Father of Marsha Goldberg and her husband Joseph, and Judith Needell. Also survived by five grandchildren and ten great-grandchildren. Services 11 am, Monday, at Louis Suburban Cha
 ORSINI--Helen. Died of complications from emphysema on July 23rd, 2006 in New York City. She served as Senior Administrative Official of the U.S. Court of International Trade until 1997. Mrs. Orsini is survived by daughter, Susan Francesca Orsini of New York City, son, Dr. Thomas Orsini of 
 STATMORE--Eleanor Piano teacher, died Tuesday, June 20, 2006 in Passaic, NJ surrounded by loved ones. She was 78. She was born in Passaic and lived in Clifton for most of her life. Eleanor discovered the piano at the age of four and gave her first piano lesson at the age of 11. She began fo
 TEICHMAN--Phyllis, August 6, 2006. Devoted wife of the late Leon Teichman. Beloved mother of the deceased Dr. Susan Teichman, Diane and Jeff Spiro. Loving grandmother to Leigh Spiro. She will be greatly missed by her family and friends.       
 YARMOLINSKY--Sally. July 29, 2006. She will be missed. Memorial Saturday, September 16, at 4 pm, 20 West44 St.       
 LIVINGSTON--Marjorie S. Known professionally as Marjorie Allen, passed away peacefully August 11 at age 80. Beloved wife for 40 years of David. She will be sadly missed by her brother Sam, his wife Kay, nephews Michael and Randy, niece Susan and their spouses. She will also be missed by Dav
 Gay Delanghe, a modern-dance choreographer and performer whose work was staged in New York in the 1960's and 70's and who became an influential teacher, died on Aug. 1 in Ann Arbor, Mich. She was 65. The cause was ovarian cancer, according to Peter Sparling, a friend and colleague. 
 GRAU--Katherine Mackay O'Brien. February 21, 1926August 8, 2006, died peacefully on Tuesday, August 8, 2006, in California. Loved and cherished mother of Tara, Alice and Fritz. Grandmother of Cameron, Katherine & Charles Smith and Chancey & Tyler Martin. Daughter of the late Katherine Macka
 HAYDEN--Melissa. We owe a debt of gratitude to the spirit, discipline, artistry and commitment of Millie. A convert and then a disciple of Mr. Balanchine, she endeavored to communicate a sense of artistic credibility to an art form that is often obscure. There was never an obstacle that she
 ILCHMAN--Alice Stone. Director of the Jeannette K. Watson Fellowships and President Emerita of Sarah Lawrence College. Died of complications arising from pancreatic cancer on August 11th, in Bronxville, NY. A tireless advocate for international educational exchanges and an authority on phil
 ORSINI--Helen. Died of complications from emphysema on July 23rd, 2006 in New York City. She served as Senior Administrative Official of the U.S. Court of International Trade until 1997. Mrs. Orsini is survived by daughter, Susan Francesca Orsini of New York City, son, Dr. Thomas Orsini of 
 SCHECHNER -- Judith Ru back. The Board of Trustees and members of the Elberon Bathing Club mourn the passing of the longtime member Judith Schechner. Our condolences go out to her husband Arthur and the entire family. Robert Fagenson, President Douglas Schwartz, Secretary       
 THOMAS - Abby. Beloved and revered wife of Philip. Adored mother of Lev. Esteemed by her friends at Congregation Or Zarua, where her inpact will continue to be felt forever. We love you. Services Monday, 2 pm, ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel,'' 91 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 BUCKLEY--Mary, 98, on August 12, 2006 in Boston, MA. Loving mother of Marlene, and Peggy Buckley. Devoted grandmother of Matthew Klein. Predeceased by her husband John, her six sisters and one brother. She is survived by her nephew Joseph Mitchell, three cousins Rev. Gregory, William and Pa
 GOLDBERG--Shirley C. On August 13,2006 of Newton Ma. formerly of Merrick, New York. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Paul and Julie Goldberg, and Dorothy Anger. Devoted grandmother of Lisa. Cherished sister of Mildred Cohn. She lived life to the fullest and will be dearly mi
 ILCHMAN--Alice Stone. The Board, staff and students of TEAK Fellowship mourn the loss of Dr. Alice Stone Ilchman, an incredible friend ..to our community. Justine Stamen Arrillaga, Founder, TEAK Fellowship $(6$)ILCHMAN--Alice Stone. With profound sorrow, Sarah Lawrence College mourn
 RANDAZZO--Arline. Dear mother or Gina. Mother-inlaw of Peter and wife of the late Francis Randazzo. Beloved grandmother of Juliete and Elijah. Veteran of the WAVES during WW II. Executive Secretary at Loral Electronics Corporation. Lately of Lakeland, FL. Originally of NYC. Arline's joyful 
 SHAMASH--Diane, founding director of Minetta Brook, died at home on Sunday, August 13. She will be waked at home, 96 Remsen Street, Brooklyn, NY, on Tuesday, August 15 from 1-4 p.m. A service will follow at 7:30 p.m. She will be buried on Wednesday, August 16, at 11:30 a.m. at Cedar Lawn Ce
 SHAPIRO--Evelyn. At the age of 76 in Portland, Oregon. Beloved wife of the late Jerome. Devoted mother of Barry, Geoffrey, Roberta and Louise, six grandchildren and one great grandchild. She was a loving wife and mother and will be dearly missed.       
 KRASILOVSKY--Harriet Sonia Pion, on August 14, 2006. Loving and devoted mother of Lois (Paul Revell) and Richard, grandmother of Scott Annan and Max Revell, sister of Phyllis Pion Keilson, Larry and Sol Liebster (Ellen), adored aunt of her nieces and nephews, and dear friend to Samuel Levy.
 ZUCKERBERG--Ruth. We celebrate the memory of Ruth Zuckerberg, Surah Ruchal, a vibrant, artistic, intense and charismatic woman. She inspired so many as she actively engaged with life -drawing, sculpting, reading, exercising, learning Hebrew and French, and enjoying theater and classical mus
 Alice Stone Ilchman, an economist and political scientist who was president of Sarah Lawrence College for nearly 20 years, died on Friday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 71. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said Judith Schwartzstein, a spokeswoman for the co
 DUNKEL--Helen Ouroumoff. 85, of Tenafly, NJ, died August 13, 2006 at her home. Widow of George E. Dunkel. Survived by loving children, George and Liza, and six grandchildren.       
 ILCHMAN--Alice Stone. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center mourns the loss of its esteemed Vice Chairman, Alice Stone Ilchman. Her leadership since joining the Board in 1998 was notable for its insight and energy. A moving force behind the establishment of the Frank E. Taplin, Jr. Co
 MORRIS--Eleanor H. Passed away August 13, 2006. Beloved and adored wife of the late Morton Morris, proud and devoted mother of Steven and Andrew. An outstanding and non-intefering mother-in-law to Jane and Linda. Loving grandmother of Alexandra with whom she had a special bond. A warm and s
 BENNETT--Betty T. The Board of Directors of the Keats-Shelley Association of America mourns the death on August 12 of our longtime Director and dear friend. A major scholar of the English Romantics and an authority on Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley, she served as Book Review Editor of our Jour
 ILCHMAN--Alice Stone. The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center mourns the loss of its esteemed Vice Chairman, Alice Stone Ilchman. Her leadership since joining the Board in 1998 was notable for its insight and energy. A moving force behind the establishment of the Frank E. Taplin, Jr. Co
 JAFFE--Ruth. On August 13, 2006. Loving and devoted wife, mother and friend. Talented actor and singer. She brightened the world with her kindness, passion and vibrant style. Services Friday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 MORRIS--Eleanor H. Passed away August 13, 2006. Beloved and adored wife of the late Morton Morris, proud and devoted mother of Steven and Andrew. An outstanding and non-intefering mother-in-law to Jane and Linda. Loving grandmother of Alexandra with whom she had a special bond. A warm and s
 CORMAN--Judy. Remembering Judy on her birthday. The Corman Family       
 BARTNOFF--Naomi Kislak Fisher, 82, died at home in Englewood, New Jersey on August 16. Born in Hoboken to Julius and Sophia Kislak, Naomi graduated from Dwight School, Englewood and Wellsley College. She was in the first genetic counseling class at Sarah Lawrence and spent nearly thirty yea
 COLLINS--Katherine A. On August 17, 2006. Beloved daughter of David and Judith Collins. Loving sister of Patrick, Paul and Ann. Devoted partner of Rebecca Perry. Mass of Christian Burial on Monday, August 21, 11 AM, St. Thomas More Church, 65 East 89th Street, NYC. Interment private. Contri
 LEEDS--Doris. Sutton Place Synagogue mourns the loss of our longtime member. Heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband Marvin and the bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, President       
 POTTER--Anna Goddard, of Bellport, NY, at the age of 92 on July 18. The daughter of Louise H. and Ralph B. Goddard, a noted artist and sculptor, she was a descendant of the Holly family which settled in Stamford, Conn. in 1642, and the Kissam family of New York. She was born in New York Cit
 SCHNIPPER -- Betty. Sutton Place Synagogue extends sincere sympathy to Daryn Schnipper (Michael Ripka) on the passing of her beloved mother. Condolences to the entire family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, President       
 SCHWARTZ--Vickie. On August 16, 2006. Beloved wife of Robert. Loving mother of Julie. Devoted godmother of Jason, Jeff and Jennifer Walsh. She always gave great guidance and care to her family and those who knew her. We will miss her joy and laughter. A real mensch. Service Friday 11:30 AM 
 STELLING--Olive Carew Rehm. Of Sarasota, FL, passed away in that city at the age of 94, on August 11, 2006. She was predeceased by husbands, John Jay Rehm Jr., and Jack Stelling, and her long time companion Gordon Egert. A graduate of Saint Elizabeth's in Convent Station, NJ, she held an un
 HAAS--Roslyn Schachne. May 1, 1915-August 21, 2005. On the First Anniversary of our Mother's passing. In Loving Memory of Roslyn Schachne Haas, who passed at the age of 90, on August 21, 2005, in Sarasota, FL, formerly of Jamaica and Great Neck, NY. Born May 1, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY, she was
 NEWSTEAD--Joan. Passed away on July 31st. Born in Baltimore on May 3, 1917, Ms. Newstead was the only child of Arthur Newstead and Katherine Bacon, both concert pianists and Juilliard faculty members. Herself a graduate of Juilliard, where she majored in piano, Joan worked for many years at
 Diane Shamash, the founder and executive director of Minetta Brook, a nonprofit art organization that helped bring the artist Robert Smithson's quixotic ''Floating Island'' project to life last year and sent it circumnavigating Manhattan for nine days, died on Sunday at her home in Brooklyn
 ASPINWALL--Valerie on August 17, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Everett Aspinwall. Loving daughter of the late Gerson & Vivian Reichman. Caring sister of Richard and the late Gar Reichman. Adoring aunt of Greg, Arlyn, Nathaniel, Benjamin and Amanda. Valerie was born and raised in NY. She ha
 BLOOMGARDEN--Pearl Sisson. Born September 27, 1912. Passed away in Los Angeles on August 17, 2006. Longtime resident of Great Neck and West Palm Beach. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, great grandmother and aunt. She built a successful career first at Lord & Taylor then at Bonwit Teller f
 NISSENBAUM--Hannah. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Sidney. Devoted mother of Marvin & Lorraine, Debbie Beeber Nussbaum and Jerry Nussbaum. Loving grandmother of Shari and Stuart Lang, Rebecca and Yaniv Ben Chomo, Samuel and Shoshie Nissenbaum, and eight great-grandchildren. An elegant, brav
 OVSHINSKY--Iris. Stan, Robin, Steven, Ben, Harvey, Dale, Natasha, Noah, Sylvie and Pablo are inconsolably grieved by the sudden loss of Stan's tirenkeh libeh, wife, mate, partner, and collaborater; our mother and nana. She illuminates our world with her joyful spirit, love and concern for a
 SEXTON--Jeanne Walsh of Scarsdale, NY. Belovedwife of Gerald A. Sexton, died peacefully after a long illness on August 17 surrounded by her loving family. In addition to her husband of 64 years, she is survived by daughter Donna McGuane of Franklin, MA, daughter Jeanne Nolan and her husband
 SINGER--Nell Hess, 91. Wife of Herbert M. Singer, deceased, passed away at her home on August 18, 2006. She is survived by her loving sons Peter L. Singer, Jerusalem, Israel and Soul Singh Khalsa, Phoenix, AZ, daughter-in-law Meher Kaur Khalsa, sisters Jeanne Hess, Slingerland, NY and Ruth 
 FERGENSON--Constance.Your daughter and her family cannot express in words what you meant to us. You are always in our thoughts. Your dear friends often speak of you with great fondness and miss you forever. Your art and beauty live on.       
 Victoria Jackson Gray Adams, a key figure in the struggle by Mississippi blacks to win their political and civil rights in the 1960's and the first woman to seek a seat in the United States Senate from her state, died Aug. 12 in Baltimore. She was 79. Her death was announced by her 
 Lydia, Duchess of Bedford, an English aristocrat who helped transform Woburn Abbey, her second husband's ancestral home in Bedfordshire, into a pioneering and satisfyingly lucrative example of blueblood tourism, died July 25 in Chertsey, Surrey, England. She was 88. Her death came a
 BLOOMGARDEN--Pearl Sisson. Born September 27, 1912. Passed away in Los Angeles on August 17, 2006. Longtime resident of Great Neck and West Palm Beach. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, great grandmother and aunt. She built a successful career first at Lord & Taylor then at Bonwit Teller f
 BLUM -- Jeanne Kaufman Gleitsman, of New York City died peacefully at home in her 95th year on August 19, 2006. She is survived by her children Ellen Trokel, Rael Gleitsman and Martin and Putsi Gleitsman, her grandchildren Avram and Julie Gleitsman, Leah and Mick Palmiter, Mary and Scott Yo
 DEUTSCHER--Martha, On Thursday, August 17, 2006, at home just shy of her 84th birthday. Martha worked for Tass, was a foreign films publicist, ran an advertising agency, taught school, and owned a chain of retail stores. Her varied experiences, her understanding of people, and her business 
 JEFFREY--Janice Carol died August 17 after a 21/2 year struggle with leukemia. Janice was born March 20, 1938 in Stanley, ND. Raised on a ranch she rode her pony to her one-room schoolhouse. She graduated with a degree in Religious Education from Jamestown College. She worked as a teacher u
 JORDAN--Elizabeth, 96, retired RN, 1932 graduate of Harlem Hospital School of Nursing, devoted wife of Vonner Jordan, deceased, NYC Firefighter. She leaves daughters Janet and Daryl, son-in-law Herman, grandsons DJ and Michael, brother and sister-in-law William and Joan Fletcher, and thirte
 JOSEPH--Toby L. 97, predeceased by her beloved husband David Joseph. Loving and much loved sister of Jerome Landau, mother of Ruth Weinstein and William Joseph, grandmother of Rosalyn, Steven and Barbara Weinstein, Andrew and Benjamin Joseph, and greatgrandmother of eight.       
 NISSENBAUM--Hannah. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Sidney. Devoted mother of Marvin & Lorraine, Debbie Beeber Nussbaum and Jerry Nussbaum. Loving grandmother of Shari and Stuart Lang, Rebecca and Yaniv Ben Chomo, Samuel and Shoshie Nissenbaum, and eight great-grandchildren. An elegant, brav
 OVSHINSKY--Iris. The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring is deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Iris Ovshinsky, a dear friend and supporter. Iris and her loving husband Stan have been instrumental in making this ''a shenere un besere velt'' through both the scientific achievements in energ
 SHIELDS--Anne Heuchling, age 90, on July 26, previously of Forest Hills Gardens and Candlewood Isle, and later Myrtle Beach. Treasured wife of the late Albert F. Shields. Adored mother of John, the late Paul, the late Christine, Deborah, and David. Granny to eight grandchildren, and one gre
 ROBERTS--Mary - Elizabeth ''Liz'' (nee Fischelis) Roberts, 78 of Plumlea Farm, Fletcher, NC died Thursday, August 10, 2006. She was born in Philadelphia, PA and graduated from Friends Select School. She attended Guilford College and graduated from the University of North CarolinaChapel Hill
 HAAS--Roslyn Schachne. May 1, 1915-August 21, 2005. On the First Anniversary of our Mother's passing. In Loving Memory of Roslyn Schachne Haas, who passed at the age of 90, on August 21, 2005, in Sarasota, FL, formerly of Jamaica and Great Neck, NY. Born May 1, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY, she was
 BLUM -- Jeanne Kaufman Gleitsman, of New York City died peacefully at home in her 95th year on August 19, 2006. She is survived by her children Ellen Trokel, Rael Gleitsman and Martin and Putsi Gleitsman, her grandchildren Avram and Julie Gleitsman, Leah and Mick Palmiter, Mary and Scott Yo
 JOSEPH -- Dorothy (Ludo wyk). Died peacefully at home. Beloved wife of the late Victor, mother of Sandra and Ian, mother-in-law of Dr. Domingo Nunez and Rebecca. Much loved grandmother of Manelle, Justin, Naomi, Rohan and Alex, and greatgrandmother of Arden. Sister of Joyce White and Margue
 ROSENTHAL -- Gertrude Asch. Known to her friends as Trudy, died August 18, 2006, at age 92. Born on November 15, 1913 in Plutzk, Poland, she was the daughter of Esther and Harry Asch. She came to the United States in 1923 and later met her husband, Samuel, in Brooklyn. They were married for
 BARROW--Mary I. of Lake Forest, IL, August 18, 2006, age 101. Beloved wife of the late David Barrow. Devoted mother of the late Bril Urion. Survived by son-in-law Phillip Urion of Captiva, FL, grandson David Urion and granddaughter Clare Urion McCully of Newton, MA, her brother Edgar U. Pey
 BLUM -- Jeanne Kaufman Gleitsman, of New York City died peacefully at home in her 95th year on August 19, 2006. She is survived by her children Ellen Trokel, Rael Gleitsman and Martin and Putsi Gleitsman, her grandchildren Avram and Julie Gleitsman, Leah and Mick Palmiter, Mary and Scott Yo
 FOLZ--Sandy. Beloved wife of Harold, mother of Stephen, Apat, Carol Kelner and Robert Folz, sister of Sue Abrahams. Proud grandmother, great-grandmother and aunt. We will miss her radiant smile, vibrant personality, sense of style and unconditional love. She will live forever in our hearts.
 RYNNE--Trinka Davis. Formerly of Akron, Ohio, passed away Thursday, August 17 in the New York Presbyterian Hospital where pneumonia and congestive heart failure claimed her life. Trinka was graduated from The Mt. Vernon School For Girls in Washington, D.C. and attended Briarcliff College. S
 SINGER--Nell. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the passing of Nell Singer, a cherished leader of the Jewish community and an esteemed philanthropist. Nell and her beloved late husband, Herbert, shared a historic commitment
 GREEN--Marion Carter. An entertainer and television personality most notably in the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday, August 18, in New York City where she had lived for over 60 years. The cause was a heart attack shortly after surgery. She was 86. Born in Chicago, Illinois, on September 19,
 ILCHMAN--Alice Stone. The Advisory Board of the Graduate School of Arts and Science at New York University mourns the death of Alice Stone Ilchman, an invaluable and trusted member, even as we are grateful for her life and achievements. We will miss her very much, and send our condolences t
 SCHWARTZ--Ruth Efron. Beloved wife of Bill. Daughter of Max and Bertha. Mother of Gil and Michael, grandmother of Will, Nina and Brianna and loving friend and inspiration to all who were fortunate to stand in her light. For 35 years Ruth served the White Plains, New York, school system as a
 STAVIS--Reeva. WJCS mourns the loss of Reeva, mother of our Board President, Rob. Her legacy lives on in the family commitment to community. We extend our deepest sympathies to Rob, Amy and the entire family. Alan Trager, CEO/Exec. Dir. $(6$)STAVIS--Reeva (Byer), 71, of Bloomfield, 
 THOMPSON--Kathleen Fraser. Died peacefully on August 17, 2006 in Flat Rock, NC. Beloved mother of the late James White Thompson, devoted sister to her twin, Virginia Fraser Church and her loving brother, John M. Fraser. Caring and loving aunt, mother-in-law and grandmother. Memorial contrib
 ZEKAUSKAS - Felicia. Re tired school nurse in the Hackensack Public School System, died Monday at her home in Hackensack. She was 83. Born in New York City in 1923, Mrs. Zekauskas (nee Cutrone) was raised in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. She graduated from the Bellevue School of Nursi
 HAMERSCHLAG -- Barbara B. Of Garden City. On August 21, 2006 in her 75th year. Beloved wife of the late James Hamerschlag. Loving mother of James & beloved motherin-law of Elizabeth. Cherished grandmother of Grace and dearest sister of Msgr. Austin P. Bennett & the late Gerard E. Bennett. M
 OBOLENSKY--Mary Elizabeth Morris. Officers, Directors and Members of the Soldiers', Sailors', Marines' and Airmen's Club are saddened by the death on 21 August, 2006 of their esteemed Board Member and friend, Mary Obolensky after a long illness. Born in Asheville, NC of Navy parents in 1934
 GUNERATNE -- Bernadette, nee Marcelline (69), who on August 21, 2006 joined her father, Bastian Marcus, mother Dulcie, sisters Frances and Annette, and brothers Hilary and Billy, in the peace of God. She triumphed over every tragedy but her last and transformed the many lives she touched. S
 CHRISTIE--Sr. Mary Joannes, R.S.M. Of the Sisters of Mercy, died August 23, 2006. Born to Mary Reusse and John Christie in New York City, Sister Joannes is survived by her loving sister, Sr. Mary Etheldreda, R.S.M., nieces, grandnieces and grandnephews. Dr. Christie, R.S.M. was the longtime
 DAVIS--Mary V., formerly of New Cumberland, Pennsylvania, died in New York on August 22, 2006. Mrs. Davis is survived by her sisters, Louisa Belski of Shamokin, Pennsylvania, and Margaret Arnold of Winchester, Virginia, her brother, Carman Minniti, also of Shamokin, and her son, James M. Da
 DIMOND--Dora. The Board and staff of Citymeals-onWheels send strength and sympathy to our much loved Executive Director Marcia Stein and her family on the loss of her mother Dora Dimond who passed away at age 96. Dora was a poet, feisty, adventurous and charming, a lovely woman whose life a
 Marie Tharp, an oceanographic cartographer whose work in the 1950's, 60's and 70's helped throw into relief -- literally -- the largely uncharted landscape of the world's ocean floor, died on Wednesday in Nyack, N.Y. She was 86 and a resident of South Nyack. The cause was cancer, ac
 ABDOO--Jayma Ann died August 20th at her home in Oradell, NJ, at age 55 of metastatic breast cancer. At the time of her death, Jayma was an Assistant Dean at Barnard College, Columbia University and an Advisor to Pre-Med, Pre-Law and International Students. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Colu
 BROMLEY--Sylvia. 88. Artist, loving mother, grandmother and aunt, tragically killed after being struck by a car on the Upper EastSide. She is survived by her sons Mark and Alan, her granddaughters Leah and Andrea and daughter-in-law Karen. She will be greatly missed by family and friends. H
 DIMOND--Dora. The Board and staff of Citymeals-onWheels send strength and sympathy to our much loved Executive Director Marcia Stein and her family on the loss of her mother Dora Dimond who passed away at age 96. Dora was a poet, feisty, adventurous and charming, a lovely woman whose life a
 SKOURAS--Barbara. Wife of 55 years of Spyros S. Skouras, Sr., Chairman PrudentialGrace Lines, the beloved mother of late Cassandra, Spyros, Jr., George and Damaris and grandmother of Spyros III, Marina, Sophia and Calliste. Barbara, daughter of Mimi and Russell Feldmann, Chairman of Newport
 ABDOO--Jayma Ann died August 20th at her home in Oradell, NJ, at age 55 of metastatic breast cancer. At the time of her death, Jayma was an Assistant Dean at Barnard College, Columbia University and an Advisor to Pre-Med, Pre-Law and International Students. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Colu
 AUSTIN--Joan Hanley (nee Neary) passed away August 24th after a long struggle with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis. She is survived by her husband, Francis M. Austin, Jr., her son, John S. Hanley, his wife Mary Ellen and their sons Ian and Ryan, a sister Mary Neary, a brother Thomas Neary and
 BROMLEY--Sylvia. 88. Artist, loving mother, grandmother and aunt, tragically killed after being struck by a car on the Upper EastSide. She is survived by her sons Mark and Alan, her granddaughters Leah and Andrea and daughter-in-law Karen. She will be greatly missed by family and friends. H
 CHAITKIN--Minnie. Of Manalapan, N.J. died on August 24, 2006. Born on May 17, 1914 in New York City. Beloved mother, grandmother and friend. She lived the last 7 years in New Jersey to be closer to family, but New York City was always her home. Her generosity, wit and humor will be missed. 
 DIMOND--Dora. The Board and staff of Citymeals-onWheels send strength and sympathy to our much loved Executive Director Marcia Stein and her family on the loss of her mother Dora Dimond who passed away at age 96. Dora was a poet, feisty, adventurous and charming, a lovely woman whose life a
 DREYFUS--Ruth. Beloved mother of Katherine and David, grandmother of Isaac, Hannah, Nechama, Sarah and Isabel. She will be remembered for her independent spirit.       
 LANDSMAN--Elinor Gersten, died peacefully on August 25, 2006. Wife of the late Seymour D. Landsman. Beloved mother of Lynn Nacht and the late Daniel Friedman and Leslie & Allen Silberman. Cherished grandmother of Jamie and Eric Lindenbaum and Michael Silberman. Great-grandmother of Ethan an
 MINTZ--Ouida. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records the profound sorrow, the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to her family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn on Monday, August 28, at noon. Rabbi Michael A White, Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, Pres
 OBOLENSKY--Mary. The officers, board of directors mourn the passing of Mary, wife of our esteemed board member, Ivan Obolensky, past president and founder of the Childrens Cancer and Blood Foundation. A celebration service of her life will be held at 11 A.M. at the Church of Incarnation, 30
 SEMPLE--Susan K. Died Aug. 22 in Cambridge, MA. A graduate of the Brearley School and Smith College, she was a teacher and guidance counselor at the American School in London for many years, and the mother of Ashby, Marnie, Baylor and Kirk. Memorial service on Sept. 9, 2 p.m., Trinity Churc
 SKOURAS--Barbara. Wife of 55 years of Spyros S. Skouras, Sr., Chairman PrudentialGrace Lines, the beloved mother of late Cassandra, Spyros, Jr., George and Damaris and grandmother of Spyros III, Marina, Sophia and Calliste. Barbara, daughter of Mimi and Russell Feldmann, Chairman of Newport
 WONG--Mary A. Born in Hong Kong, December 21, 1948. Died in NYC August 21, 2006 of cancer. Lived most of her life in NYC and was an Account Executive for U.S. Financial. She is remembered with great love by many friends including Sandy Pearson, Babet Poliacoff, John Hing, Loretta French, Ze
 ASPINWALL--Valerie. The Board of Trustees of The Altschul Foundation regrets the passing of Valerie Aspinwall, a devoted and longtime trustee and officer of the Foundation, and offers its condolences to her family and friends. Valerie brought compassion, enthusiasm and dedication to her wor
 SCANNELL--Gertrude Rose (nee Lally) on August 24, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Daniel T., former Vice Chairman of the M.T.A. Loving mother of Maureen Scannell Bateman, Joan P. Scannell, Daniel T. Scannell and the late Robert E. Scannell. Dear grandmother of Kathleen Graham, Nancy DiCicco 
 WALSEY MILLER--Sylvia. Died August 24, 2006 in North Miami Beach, FL. Age 92. Mourned by her family. Private funeral.       
 ABDOO--Jayma Ann died August 20th at her home in Oradell, NJ, at age 55 of metastatic breast cancer. At the time of her death, Jayma was an Assistant Dean at Barnard College, Columbia University and an Advisor to Pre-Med, Pre-Law and International Students. A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Colu
 AUSTIN--Joan Hanley (nee Neary) passed away August 24th after a long struggle with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis. She is survived by her husband, Francis M. Austin, Jr., her son, John S. Hanley, his wife Mary Ellen and their sons Ian and Ryan, a sister Mary Neary, a brother Thomas Neary and
 BORN--Eleanor L. 87, formerly of New York City and the beloved wife of the late Dr. John H. Born, passed away on August 23 in Delray Beach, FL. She is survived by her sons, John R. Born, Sr. of Cambridge, MA and Dr. Christopher T. Born of Providence, RI, seven grandchildren and five greatgr
 BUCKNER--Ann. Died August 24, 2006, at the age of 101. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Buckner. She is survived by children Sandra and Shelly, and Warren and Sonny, five grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. She will live in our hearts forever.       
 HOROWITZ--Miriam. Our sincerest condolences to Liz, George, David, Amy, Jon, Sydney and Samantha on the loss of Miriam. Miriam was a wonderfully devoted mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. We will remember her wonderful spirit and ''twinkle'' in her eye. She will be missed by all. Lov
 KILEY--Patricia C. (nee Cordiner). 77, of Park Ridge, NJ, formerly of New Canaan, CT, died at home on Friday, August 18. Beloved mother of Timothy Kiley (Newburyport, MA), Laura Kiley (Sherman Oaks, CA), Christopher and his wife Brenda Kiley (Boise, ID), Susan Kiley and her husband Kevin Os
 LOEWER--Ruth F. Age 90, died August 26th, in her sleep at home. Beloved wife of the late Burton and mother of Roger. Survived by her nephews, Jonathan and Joshua Schultz, and niece Jennifer Schultz. Graveside services and interment at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY.       
 SKOURAS--Barbara. Wife of 55 years of Spyros S. Skouras, Sr., Chairman PrudentialGrace Lines, the beloved mother of late Cassandra, Spyros, Jr., George and Damaris and grandmother of Spyros III, Marina, Sophia and Calliste. Barbara, daughter of Mimi and Russell Feldmann, Chairman of Newport
 SULLIVAN--Amely. Her family and friends are saddened by her sudden death on Friday, August 25th. Daughter Janet, sister Steffi, son-in-law Armand and many others knew her as a woman of valor, gallantry and brilliance. Vivacious, literary, proud and cultivated, her spirit and light will shin
 MILLER--Pearl C. After the sudden passing of her reveared uncle Elias A. Cohen, on July 2, 1952, Pearl dedicated over 50 years of her life to his Tranquillity Farm and Camp. Leading by example and putting others before herself, Pearl taught thousands of boys and girls how to live, play and 
 Leslie Kaul, who as the executive chef of Daily Soup, a chain of Manhattan soup bars, helped make it trendy for New Yorkers to savor a bowl of tomato cheddar, clam chowder or Jamaican pumpkin soup as a meal in itself, died Sunday at her home in Park Slope, Brooklyn. She was 48. The 
 Marion Cajori, an independent filmmaker who chronicled the creative process in documentaries about artists, died on Aug. 8 in Manhattan. She was 56 and lived in Manhattan and Setauket, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said Nicholas Quennell, a member of the board of the Art Kaleidoscope F
 FASHENA--Rachel L., July 9, 1908--August 28, 2006. Lifelong member of Congregation Shearith Israel in New York City. Daughter of the late Sol Levy Fashena and the late Soloman Fashena, and predeceased by brother Sidney. Before the war, Rachel worked as a clothing designer. Fluent in French 
 FISCHBEIN--Adele (Levine). 80. From the Bronx. Died August 25, 2006 in Lake Worth, Fl. Wife, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, Democrat. A true decider. She'll be missed. Service -11:30 AM Wed. August 30 at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st Street & Amsterdam Ave. Shiva will be obse
 HOROWITZ--Miriam. Our sincerest condolences to Liz, George, David, Amy, Jon, Sydney and Samantha on the loss of Miriam. Miriam was a wonderfully devoted mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. We will remember her wonderful spirit and ''twinkle'' in her eye. She will be missed by all. Lov
 KRAMER--Adele, 92 years old. Adored wife of the late Mark. Beloved mother of Merle and Jerry Feldstein and Howard and Jane Kramer. Adored grandmother of Joy, Billy, Cliff, Melissa, Susan, Paul, Emily and Steven. Cherished great-grandmother of Ali, Michael, Adam, Jordan, Dylan, Justin, Emma,
 LOEWER--Ruth F. Age 90, died August 26th, in her sleep at home. Beloved wife of the late Burton and mother of Roger. Survived by her nephews, Jonathan and Joshua Schultz, and niece Jennifer Schultz. Graveside services and interment at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY.       
 MAJZLIN--Freda. Freda (age 92) died August 27, 2006, of natural causes attendant Alzheimer's disease. Beloved wife of the late Gregory, devoted mother of Leonard and Jerome. Cherished grandmother of Lesley Anne and David. Loving sister of Hy Blackbeer and the late Esther Fox. Graveside serv
 ALBRIGHT--Veronique Joan. Veronique Joan Albright, 74, of Sleepy Hollow, NY passed away unexpectedly Sunday evening, August 27, 2006 at her home. Born in Albany on December 15, 1933, she was the daughter of Dr. Herman J. and Veronique Perrin Diekman. A graduate of Albany Academy for Girls, 
 Annely Juda, a London art dealer whose gallery, Annely Juda Fine Art, was known for its pioneering shows of early European modernists, died on Aug. 13 in London. She was 91. Ms. Juda died after nearly a year of declining health, said Michael Michaeledes, an artist and friend of the 
 FEDER--Jeanette. On August 28, 2006. Beloved mother of Sasha Greene and her husband Giles and Francine Drexler and her husband Halbert. Cherished grandmother of Jodi Billet and her husband Bradford, Matthew Friedman and his wife Kayo, Jared Pava and Ryan Drexler and great grandmother of Sam
 FISCHBEIN--Adele (Levine). 80. From the Bronx. Died August 25, 2006 in Lake Worth, Fl. Wife, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, Democrat. A true decider. She'll be missed. Service -11:30 AM Wed. August 30 at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 91st Street & Amsterdam Ave. Shiva will be obse
 KAUL--Leslie, August 27. Survived by husband David Mahler. Parents Donald and Suzanne and brother Christopher and sister Rachel. and Memorial September 10 at 2:00PM at her Brooklyn home. Donations in her name; Brooklyn Botanic Gardens, 1000 Washington Ave, Brooklyn, NY 11225.       
 MAJZLIN--Freda. Freda (age 92) died August 27, 2006, of natural causes attendant Alzheimer's disease. Beloved wife of the late Gregory, devoted mother of Leonard and Jerome. Cherished grandmother of Lesley Anne and David. Loving sister of Hy Blackbeer and the late Esther Fox. Graveside serv
 ALCALAY--Naumi, CSW. The Yeshiva University family and its Sephardic Council of Overseers mourn the passing of a great Sephardic woman, who was a longtime friend and supporter. Humble and self-effacing, she revered her illustrious parents, Jelena (Rachel) and Chief Rabbi Dr. Isaac Abraham A
 BRUMER--Etta. On August 29, 2006. Beloved mother of Marshall (Kathy). Devoted grandmother of Harris and Jessica. Adored aunt of Carol, Barbara, and Paul. Etta taught in the NYC school system for five decades. She will be remembered for her love, inspiration and guidance to family, students 
 COLLIN--Eleanor. On August 28, 2006. Survived by sister Harriet Rich and brother-inlaw Norman Rich. Donations in her memory may be made to The Heart Association.       
 FEDER--Jeanette. On August 28, 2006. Beloved mother of Sasha Greene and her husband Giles and Francine Drexler and her husband Halbert. Cherished grandmother of Jodi Billet and her husband Bradford, Matthew Friedman and his wife Kayo, Jared Pava and Ryan Drexler and great grandmother of Sam
 TABLER--Phyllis Baker. Died at age 92 on August 22 in Glen Cove Hospital. Mrs. Tabler, a 1936 graduate of Wellesley College and longtime resident of Upper Brookville, served for many years as President of the Long Island Kennel Club and as a volunteer at Glen Cove Hospital. Mrs. Tabler's hu
 MacNAIR--Susan.The family of Artie Siccardi and the late Susan MacNair wish to acknowledge with sincere gratitude all those who contributed in Sue's memory to the Columbia University Lung Cancer Research Fund, which was established in her name, and the many who sent warm tributes, letters a
