 Helen R. Kaufman, a philanthropist and community volunteer who was the widow of Irving R. Kaufman, a former chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York, died on Feb. 21 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 84. Mrs. Kaufman
 Inna Zubkovskaya, a leading ballerina in the Kirov Ballet when that Russian company first appeared in the West, died on Feb. 5 in St. Petersburg, Russia. She was 77. The Kirov was at a peak but unfamiliar to ballet audiences throughout the world until 1961. Ms. Zubkovskaya led the t
 Margaret Tafoya, whose nimble, ingenious hands turned the chocolate-colored clay of her New Mexico pueblo into black-on-black and red-on-red pottery of such profound and graceful beauty that it acquired a global reputation, died on Feb. 25 at her home in Santa Clara Pueblo near Santa Fe. Sh
 Margaret Riker Harding, an educator who spent 44 years on the faculty of the Brearley School in Manhattan, died March 3 at her home on the Upper West Side. She was 68. The cause was melanoma, her family said. Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Harding graduated from Vassar College in 1
 Dame Ninette de Valois, the founder of England's Royal Ballet and a major British choreographer, died yesterday at her home in London. She was 102. With keen vision and unflagging energy, Dame Ninette guided one of the 20th century's greatest ballet companies. It was under h
 Portia Nelson, a cabaret singer, songwriter, actress and author who was one of the most beloved New York nightclub performers of the 1950's, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80. Ms. Nelson became a cabaret legend in the 1950's with her appearances in clubs like Caf√
 Helen Beling, a sculptor, died on Monday at a nursing home in Bandon, Ore. She was 87. Ms. Beling worked in various nonobjective styles, beginning with her early wood carvings, which evoked shrouded medieval German figures. She eventually worked in stone, bronze and steel before dev
 Ann Sothern, a deft comedian and talented singer who was known as the Queen of the B's at Columbia and RKO, where she made 18 movies between 1934 and 1936, died on Thursday at her home in Ketchum, Idaho. She was 92. Perhaps never the star she might have been, Ms. Sothern was neverth
 Anne Cohen Heller, a medical educator known professionally as Dr. Anne C. Carter, died on Feb. 24 at her home in Manhattan. She was 81 and also lived in Bedford, N.Y. In 1968 she became a professor of medicine at State University of New York's Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn. S
 Irina Bugrimova, a Russian animal tamer who taught lions to walk a tightrope in circuses, died on Feb. 20 in Moscow. She was 90. Ms. Bugrimova was the first Russian woman to train lions and tigers, as well as a liger, a cross between the two. She wore deerskin trousers and short boo
 Peggy Converse, a character actress whose seven-decade career in show business included films, television and more than 100 roles in more than 1,000 theaters, died on March 2 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 95. Ms. Converse said she had appeared on stages in every major city in 
 Wendy Carol Roth, whose disappointment that she could marvel at the Grand Canyon only from a parking lot led to a book to help other disabled people enjoy the national parks and a campaign for easier access to them, died on Wednesday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. Ms. Roth, a 
 Helen Smith Bevington, a poet, essayist, English professor and tireless tourist who roamed the world in search of her own Shangri-La, died on Friday at the home of her son, David, in Chicago. She was 94. Mrs. Bevington was a professor emeritus at Duke University, where she joined th
 Denny Griswold, founder and former editor of the newsletter Public Relations News, died on Feb. 7 in Norwalk, Conn. She was 92 and in recent years had lived at the Wilton Meadows Health Care Center in Wilton, Conn. Her newsletter was the first periodical to report on public relation
 Debra E. Bernhardt, a labor historian who spearheaded a successful three-year drive to obtain landmark status for Union Square Park in Manhattan, died on Thursday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 47. The cause was cancer, said her sister, Andra Bernhardt Ladd. The head of th
 Ellen J. Hammer, a historian who wrote an influential book about Indochina and Vietnam before the Vietnam War, died on Jan. 28 in New York City. She was 79 and lived in New York City. The cause was lymphoma, the journal Indochina Chronology reported. Dr. Hammer received a bachelor's
 Janice H. Levin, an art collector and philanthropist, died on Friday in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 87 and had homes in Manhattan, in East Hampton, N.Y., and in Palm Beach. Mrs. Levin, the widow of Philip J. Levin, a lawyer and real estate developer, took over her husband's business af
 Toby Wing, whose pert good looks and vivacious personality made her a cinematic bombshell of the 30's -- as well as the heroine in a storybook romance with a celebrated aviator, Dick Merrill -- died on Friday at her home in Mathews, Va. She was 85. ''Miss Wing is a nice girl with a 
 Maude Russell Rutherford, a singer and dancer in the glory days of black theater in the 1920's who always said she was the one who really introduced the Charleston on Broadway, died on March 8 at her home in Atlantic City. She is believed to have been 104. Strikingly pretty, she was
 Birgit Akesson, a dancer and choreographer whose unconventional approach to movement and music made her a prominent pioneer of Swedish modern dance, died on Saturday in Stockholm, where she lived. She died on her 93rd birthday. Unlike most modern dancers in the United States and Eur
