 Joan McCord, a criminologist who marshaled mountains of evidence to question the effectiveness of social programs championed by both liberals and conservatives, died Tuesday at her home in Narberth, Pa. She was 73. The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Robert. In 12 books
 DREYER--Jacqueline E. Beloved wife of the late Norm. Devoted mother of Janine, Dianne and Andy. Adoring grandmother of Skylar. Loving sister-in-law of Peter and Robert Dreyer. Services at Boulevard - Riverside, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, Tuesday at 9:30 am. In lieu of flowers contributions
 EISENBERG -- Marilyn. Be loved wife of the late Boris Godoff, Norman Gordon and Daniel Eisenberg. Loving mother of Ann and Peter Godoff. Loving grandmother of Nicholas and Lara Godoff, and Matthew Baron. Devoted mother-in-law of Heidi Godoff and Annik LaFarge, and step-mother of Susan Holla
 FURMAN--Carol M. Loving mother of Debbie and Billy Wolff and Patti Miller. Beloved husband of Robert. Adored grandmother of Natalie and Jared. Special friend of Julie, Ted, Judy, Matt, Emily, Michelle, Sidney and Susan Laden. Services Monday, 9:30 am, at Park Avenue Synagogue, 87th Street a
 GREENE--Catherine A. (nee Rosone). Devoted wife of the late John. Survived by her loving daughters, Kathleen and her husband Michael DiSanto, and Barbara and her husband Edward DiNapoli. Also survived by six loving grandchildren, Michael, Lisa Kelly, Christopher, Richard, John and Angela. D
 HEROY--Rosamond Lee. On February 27, 2004. Formerly of NYC and Southampton, NY. Predeceased by her husband William W., M.D. Survived by her loving daughters Sarah Lee Mundy of Polo, MO, Rosamond H. Miller of Aiea, HI, Jane C. Winn of Singer Island, Riviera Beach, FL, Helen H. Cuccia of Larc
 JENKINS--Phyllis Adams. Beloved wife of George Jenkins and cherished grandmother of Sarah and William Marsh, died February 26, in Santa Monica. Born in NYC and a longtime resident, she became one of the pioneering women television producers at NBC. In California, she was treasured for her p
 RESMAN--Gloria. 66, of New Rochelle, NY, on February 27, 2004. Beloved wife of Lester. Devoted mother of Gary and Lisa and her husband Jeremy. Loving grandmother of Eric, Evan, Zachary and Sam. Cherished sister of Annabelle and Shirley. Adored aunt of Linda, Jon, Eliza and Rebecca. Donation
 SCHEITLIN--Linda J. (nee Green). Adored wife of Alex, beloved daughter of Jean Green, loving sister to Kathryn Henderson and John Green. Died December 4, 2003, while on vacation in Florence, Italy. A service celebrating Linda's life will take place on Thursday, March 4, 2004, at 10 a.m. in 
 SONN--Fay. 98, on February 28, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Alfred. Dear mother of Dr. Stanley M. Sonn and Myrna S. Irwin. Loving grandmother of Elliott Sonn, Jeffrey Sonn, Dr. Heidi Sonn, Karen Sonn, Steven Irwin, Kevin Irwin and Eileen Riley. Cherished great - grandmother. She will be g
 THORNE--Dorothy F. The Board and staff of The New York Botanical Garden are saddened by the death of Dorothy (''Dossie'') Thorne, who served on the Garden's Board from 1973-1992 and as an Honorary Board member since 1992. She was the wife of our late Board member, Oakleigh L. Thorne, and st
 Josephine Schwarz, a pioneer of the American regional ballet movement and a co-founder of the Dayton Ballet, died on Friday in Boulder, Colo., said her niece, Johannah Franke. She was 95. Ms. Schwarz and her sister, Hermene Schwarz, who died in 1986, were natives of Dayton who, thro
 BRADY -- Mary (Hagerty) ''Mimi,'' of Scarsdale, NY, passed into eternal life on March 1st, after a brief illness. A graduate of Manhattanville College ('48), she is survived by her five children: Mary Elizabeth Brady of Scarsdale, NY; Edward A. Brady, Jr. of White Plains, NY; Suzanne Forliv
 FADER--Claire. Beloved wife of the late Carl. Mother of Vicki, Nancy and Michael, Jay and Carolyn. Momma and Grandma of Danny, Ken, Scott, Heather, Alison and Dana. She was MOMMA FADER--Claire. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Claire Fad
 FURMAN--Carol M. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband Robert, her children and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board M
 GREENWALD--Maralyn E. Of Coconut Creek, Florida and New York City. Died on February 29, 2004. Mother of Adrienne Youngstein and Wayne Greenwald. Grandmother of Margot and Eli. Family to Lily Kaplan and Steve Gruberg. She will be remembered.       
 JENKINS--Phyllis Adams. Beloved wife of George Jenkins and cherished grandmother of Sarah and William Marsh, died February 26, in Santa Monica. Born in NYC and a longtime resident, she became one of the pioneering women television producers at NBC. In California, she was treasured for her p
 PORETSKY--Nina, M.D. On March 1, 2004. Born August 24, 1919 in Bobruisk, Belarus. A prominent pediatrician, she lived and worked for more than three decades in Leningrad, Russia until her immigration to the United States in 1979. Her absolute dedication to work was reciprocated by the love 
 ROSENHECK -- Adele. Be loved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Mina and Steven Berman, Robert and fiance Dr. Fern Arlen. Totally devoted grandmother of Erica and Jason Kronick and Marshall Berman who were equally as devoted to her. Loving sister to Sy and Edward Hahn and their famil
 SCHEITLIN--Linda J. (nee Green). Adored wife of Alex, beloved daughter of Jean Green, loving sister to Kathryn Henderson and John Green. Died December 4, 2003, while on vacation in Florence, Italy. A service celebrating Linda's life will take place on Thursday, March 4, 2004, at 10 a.m. in 
 SILVER--Melba. The adored and cherished mother of Ann, Erik, Owen and Adam. Melba loved and was loved by sister Lois, daughter-in-law Carlotta, and grandson Eli. Melba passed away in Boca Raton, FL. on March 1, 2004. She was a 50-year resident of Rye, N.Y., devoting many years of volunteer 
 SYDNOR -- Elaine Jantzen Willis, died February 28, 2004 surrounded by her family. Graduate of The Mary Louis Academy and Marymount College in 1947, she is survived by five children and nine grandchildren. Lainey died as she lived with grace, fortitude and dignity.       
 VIOT--Betty Ann Painter, died on February 29, 2004. She was a much beloved lady blessed with humor, dignity, and intelligence. She was born on May 15, 1914, and grew up in Kansas City, MO. Mrs. Viot had a theatrical and modeling career which took her to both New York and Hollywood. She was 
 WALDMAN -- Blanche. The Board and Staff of New York Society for the Deaf express its deepest sympathies to the family of Blanche Waldman. Beloved wife of the late Lester, former Executive Director and President, and mother of Michael, our current President, and Rebecca. She possessed a cari
 BERGER -- Sylvia Josephs. Sept 30, 1901-Mar 2, 2002. A woman of great intellect, character and taste--loyalty and independence. Those of us who knew her best continually miss her honesty, wise counsel and encouragement. With love, Joyce and family       
 Jane Engelhard, a philanthropist and art collector whose many gifts ranged from major donations to the Metropolitan Museum of Art to the Christmas crèche displayed at the White House, died on Sunday at her home in Nantucket, Mass. She was 86. The cause was pneumonia, her daughter A
 Marge Schott, who evoked the image of a charming eccentric when she bought the Cincinnati Reds in 1984 but became a baseball pariah for offensive racial and ethnic remarks, died yesterday in Cincinnati. She was 75. Her death was announced by Christ Hospital, where she had been treat
 BRADY -- Mary (Hagerty) ''Mimi,'' of Scarsdale, NY, passed into eternal life on March 1st, after a brief illness. A graduate of Manhattanville College ('48), she is survived by her five children: Mary Elizabeth Brady of Scarsdale, NY; Edward A. Brady, Jr. of White Plains, NY; Suzanne Forliv
 CULLINEN--Sonia. Sonia Robbins Cullinen, sister of legendary choreographer Jerome Robbins died at the Minskoff Theater prior to the opening of ''Fiddler on the Roof.'' She was accompanied by her daughter Cydney Palencia, her son & daughterin-law Robbin & Jan Cullinen. She is also survived b
 ENGELHARD--Jane. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Jane Engelhard, whose generosity--together with that of her late husband Charles--enhanced a whole generation in the life of the Metropolitan Museum. Beginning in 1968, they donated works of art a
 KANOWITZ--Amanda Rose. Beloved daughter of Richard and Alissa Kanowitz and a darling sister of Adam. Cherished granddaughter of Steven and Bonnie Kanowitz, Richard and Dr. Eileen Feldgus. Loving great-granddaughter of Maye Goldstein and Oscar Glickman. Adored niece of Melissa and Cliff Karl
 SANTINI--Dorothea C. Of Yonkers on March 1, 2004. She was born on October 27, 1916 to Godfrey E. Santini and Quintilia Michelini Santini. Beloved sister of the late Godfrey Santini, Quentin Santini, Maureen Knebel and Alice Santini. She was VicePresident of Operations for the family busines
 SILVER--Melba. The National Basketball Association is deeply saddened by the loss of Melba Silver, beloved mother of our colleague Adam Silver. Devoted mother of Ann, Erik, Owen and Adam, Melba will be remembered for her numerous accomplishments and benevolent involvement in the Cities of R
 SOLOMON--Ruth K. Beloved mother of Susan Solomon, mother-in-law of Paul Goldberger, grandmother of Adam Hirsh and Ben and Alex Goldberger, great grandmother of Thibeaux Hirsh, died on March 2nd. She cherished all of life's gifts, from Mozart to Scrabble, and she inspired us as she met every
 WACHTLER--Fay. My sincere condolences to (Judge) Wachtler and family on the loss of your beloved mother. I know you will miss her greatly. Irving Schneider       
 WINKLER--Marianne, in New York City on March 2, 2004 at age 89. Widow of the late Franz Winkler. Survived by her daughters, Naomi Rosenfeld and Daniela Winkler, her sons-in-law, Steven Rosenfeld and Fred Martin, and her grandchildren, Kathryn Rosenfeld, Elizabeth Rosenfeld, Eli Martin, and 
 ANGELILLI--Josephine Danza. Beloved wife for 62 years of Prof. Frank Angell (Prof. Emeritus NYU). Of Atlantic Beach NY and Hollywood FL. Devoted mother of Marietta and Larry Schiff of Manhattan, Peter and Arlene Angelilli of Douglas Manor NY, cherished grandmother of Bradley Schiff and Jenn
 BRANCATI--Helen. 86, formerly of Hastings-on-Hudson, passed away after a long illness in Cape Coral, FL on February 29, 2004. Daughter of the late William and Frieda Withall, she was preceded in death by her loving and devoted husband Edward in 1978. Former Director of the Girls Scouts for 
 ENGELHARD -- Jane. The Trustees, Fellows, and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Libary mourn the death of Jane Engelhard. She served as a valuable member of the Board of Trustees from 1974 to 1986 and was a Trustee Emerita from 1986 to 2004. Jane, exceptionally intelligent and deeply committed t
 FURMAN--Carol. We mourn the loss of a loving sister and aunt, whose life was a testament to courage in the face of illness and commitment to philanthropic and religious causes. She was an accomplished, independent and beloved woman, whose cherished memory and example will continue to inspir
 GOINGS--Mary Louis. Beloved daughter of Brenda Nichol Goings of Mount Airy, NC and Rick Goings of Windermere, FL, passed away on Sunday, February 29, 2004. She was born on October 19, 1977 in Charlottesville, VA. She was a graduate of Salem Academy, Winston Salem, NC and North Carolina Stat
 JUSSIM--Dr. Estelle. Granby, MA., 76 noted author and former Simmons College professor, died March 1. Among her works, ''Slave to Beauty'' won her the acclaimed award, New York Historical Society's Prize for Distinctive achievement in the History of Photography. She has also written numerou
 KANOWITZ--Amanda Rose. The parent community of Central Synagogue Nursery School mourns the loss of beautiful Amanda. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her parents, Alissa and Richard, and her brother, Adam. We hold you all in our hearts and prayers.       
 LYDON -- Elizabeth Schutz, active environmentalist, died on February 9, 2004 at her home in New York. She was 47 years old. Betsy worked for the National Resource Defense Council, first staff member of Mothers and Others for a Livable Planet, Coordinator of Sustainable Agriculture and Food 
 ROTHSCHILD--Maurine. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art are saddened by the death of Maurine Rothschild, longtime member of the Trustee Committee on Museum Archives, Library and Research and founding member of The Library Council. Maurine's generosity to and faithful partici
 SOLOMON--Ruth K. Beloved mother of Susan Solomon, mother-in-law of Paul Goldberger, grandmother of Adam Hirsh and Ben and Alex Goldberger, great grandmother of Thibeaux Hirsh, died on March 2nd. She cherished all of life's gifts, from Mozart to Scrabble, and she inspired us as she met every
 WINKLER--Marianne, in New York City on March 2, 2004 at age 89. Widow of the late Franz Winkler. Survived by her daughters, Naomi Rosenfeld and Daniela Winkler, her sons-in-law, Steven Rosenfeld and Fred Martin, and her grandchildren, Kathryn Rosenfeld, Elizabeth Rosenfeld, Eli Martin, and 
 WOOZLEY -- Julie. 23, of Weston, CT, on March 3, 2004. Survived by her parents, Weldon Lamont Woozley of Norwood, CO, Linda Mandel Lewis of Weston, CT, stepfather Arnold Lewis of Weston, CT, her sister Sarah Fenster and her husband Jordan of NY, nieces, Miriam and Naomi Fenster, stepbrother
 CUNNINGHAM--Eileen Barrett. Born in Manhattan, died March 2, 2004 in Philadelphia. She formerly resided in Brooklyn, NY and Sayville, LI. Beloved wife of the late George; dear mother of Missy Bartley, Maryanne Cunningham and Nancy Cunningham; darling grandmother of Meghan Bracken, Ned Bartl
 FRAZER--Grace Elizabeth, on February 28, 2004 in Englewood, NJ. Beloved sister of Edwin. She was a longtime employee of Time, Inc. Services are private.       
 LEHR--Ruth (nee Frankfurter) age 87. Of New York, N.Y., on March 4, 2004. Wife of the late George M. Dear mother of Nancy L. Lee and the late Barbara Ida. Proud Nana of Alex, Kate and Sari; mother-in-law of Arthur E. Lee, loving aunt of Mary and George Lillich and Carol and Donald Pizer. We
 LYONS--Barbara Anne of Pawleys Island, SC formerly of Jackson Heights, NY died Monday, March 1, 2004 in South Carolina. Born July 17, 1933 in Wilkes Barre, PA, daughter of the late Gerald and Margaret O'Brien Lyons. Graduate of Barnard College and Columbia University, she was an editor of c
 SAMARA--Yvonne. Bon vivant and bright light to all who knew her. Beloved mother and grandmother, devoted sister, loyal friend and the world's best mother-in-law. Educated in Florence and Alexandria, her style, grace and love of travel lasted throughout her life. Mass 11AM Tuesday, March 9 a
 SMITH--Virginia W. Suddenly on March 3, 2004. Beloved wife of Herbert L. Smith III, her loving husband of almost fifty years. Devoted mother of Herbert L. Smith IV and Victoria Smith Walsh. Adored grandmother of Samantha G. Smith, Morgan M. Smith, Herbert L. Smith V, Christopher J. Smith, V
 SOLOMON--Ruth K. Beloved mother of Susan Solomon, mother-in-law of Paul Goldberger, grandmother of Adam Hirsh and Ben and Alex Goldberger, great grandmother of Thibeaux Hirsh, died on March 2nd. She cherished all of life's gifts, from Mozart to Scrabble, and she inspired us as she met every
 WINKLER -- Marianne. The Board at 1070 Park Avenue mourns the passing of our long term shareholder and mother of our vice president Naomi Rosenfeld. Our condolences to her family.       
 LEHR--Ruth (nee Frankfurter) age 87. Of New York, N.Y., on March 4, 2004. Wife of the late George M. Dear mother of Nancy L. Lee and the late Barbara Ida. Sister of the late Dorothy Hart. Proud Nana of Alex, Kate and Sari; mother-in-law of Arthur E. Lee, loving aunt of Mary and George Lilli
 MATKOVIC--Ksenija De Cerineo, wife of the late Ivo (Gino) Matkovic, died after a brief illness on March 4, 2004. She is survived by her daughters, Lydia Klyver, Tina Spiro and June Goldfinger, along with eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. She was born the Countess de Cerineo,
 MURPHY--Carole (nee Paul). Died peacefully in her home on Tuesday, March 4, 2004. Beloved wife of the late John A. Murphy, Sr. Devoted mother of John A. Jr. (Ellen) of Oconomowoc, WI, Kevin P. (Pat) of Denver, CO, Robert B. (Libby) of Potomac, MD, Timothy M. (Michelle) of Fort Worth, TX, Ke
 SMITH--Virginia W. Suddenly on March 3, 2004. Beloved wife of Herbert L. Smith III, her loving husband of almost fifty years. Devoted mother of Herbert L. Smith IV and Victoria Smith Walsh. Adored grandmother of Samantha G. Smith, Morgan M. Smith, Herbert L. Smith V, Christopher J. Smith, V
 ALPER--Lillian R., on March 4, 2004, in her 88th year. Beloved wife of the late Harry L. Alper.       
 ANGELILLI--Joan. In loving memory of Joan Angelilli. I will always remember the wonderful three hour Sunday dinners. Gravy with spareribs, meatballs & bracciole and the best leg of lamb ever. I will remember her adorning the lobby of the Americana Hotel in Puerto Rico with her beautiful ele
 ANGELILLI--Josephine. We offer our deepest sympathy and sincere condolences to the President of our company, Arlene & Peter Angelilli for the loss of their mother. Our hearts go out to her husband Professor Frank Angell, her daughter Marietta Schiff & husband Larry Schiff, her grandchildren
 AUGENTI--I. Edith, 88 of NY, NY passed away February 28th. Born in Brooklyn, NY June 28th, 1915 the daughter of Dominick and Clara (Cassino) DiRocco. She was predeceased by her beloved husband Bruno J. Augenti and a sister, Sally Kalli. She is survived by her son Jory B. Augenti and wife Br
 BERNSTEIN -- Beatrice. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, N.Y., mourns the passing of our beloved member, Beatrice Bernstein. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Dr. Steven Zeldis, President       
 BOYD--Frances S., of Islip, New York, passed away at home on March 1 at the age of 84. She was born and raised in Islip and attended Pratt Institute. She utilized her art training during WW II working at Grumman where she lofted new aircraft designs. In later years she was a partner in a ho
 ENGELHARD -- Jane. The worldwide family of Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem mourns the loss of this cherished friend and benefactor. During difficult economic times in the late 1970s, she played a vital role in helping to build our new medical center complex by sponsoring the Cathet
 FURMAN--Carol. I'll always cherish with the fondest of memories the warm friendship I have shared with such a wonderful person. Carol's generosity and kind heart were an inspiration to us all. She lived her life with integrity and enthusiasm. Our heartfelt symapthy to her family. Carole, Ad
 HERRMANN -- Minerva W. Age 96, passed away on March 1, 2004 in West Palm Beach, FL. A retired NYC teacher, she received a BS degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1929 and her Master's degree from Hunter College in 1964. Her commitment and unselfishness was obvious in all of her vol
 KIM--Tongrim. Founder of Whanki Museum and Director of Whanki Foundation. She died on February 29, 2004, at her Manhattan, New York residence. She was born in Seoul, Korea, January 20, 1916, and came to the United States in 1964. She was the wife of Whanki Kim who is renowned and the most r
 LAMBERT--Evelyn. Died on February 23, 2004, in Cuernavaca, in her 97th year. A world traveler, her principal residences were in Havana, Dallas, and The Veneto, Italy, before moving to Mexico. Twice widowed, she leaves a throng of loving friends.       
 LEHR--Ruth (nee Frankfurter) age 87. Of New York, N.Y., on March 4, 2004. Wife of the late George M. Dear mother of Nancy L. Lee and the late Barbara Ida. Sister of the late Dorothy Hart. Proud Nana of Alex, Kate and Sari; mother-in-law of Arthur E. Lee, loving aunt of Mary and George Lilli
 LEIGHT--Freda S. Peacefully in her 101st year. 50 year resident of Great Neck. Survived by numerous nieces and nephews. Contributions to First Church of Christ Scientist, Boston, MA. No services.       
 LIEBEN--Marion. Born on September 8, 1925, in Havana, Cuba. Grew up in Germany, Brooklyn and New Rochelle, NY. Graduate of New Rochelle High School, Lenox Hill Hospital School of Nursing, NYU. Attended Columbia University and Hunter College. Served 17 years as Director of Home Health Care a
 LIEBERMAN--Linda. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow Member Linda Lieberman. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to all members of her family. Paul J. Konigsberg President       
 LYDON -- Elizabeth Schutz, active environmentalist, died on February 9, 2004 at her home in New York. She was 47 years old. Betsy worked for the National Resource Defense Council, first staff member of Mothers and Others for a Livable Planet, Coordinator of Sustainable Agriculture and Food 
 MORNEL--Rita Kamerman, age 92, on Saturday, February 28, 2004 of Columbia, MD. Beloved mother of Sydel Maher of Bethesda, MD, Patricia Wittenberg of Mission Viejo, CA and Isabelle Jaffe of Massapequa, NY. Also survived by six grandchildren and nine great grandchildren. Sister of Shirley Bar
 SCHEERER--Gladys Knight, March 4, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Paul R. Scheerer died at her home on Jupiter Island, Hobe Sound, FL. She was 103 years old. Mrs. Scheerer was the mother of Lynda T. Stokes, Of Gulfstream, FL and East Hampton, NY; Mary S. Babcock of Stanfordville, NY and Hobe
 SMITH--Virginia W. Suddenly on March 3, 2004. Beloved wife of Herbert L. Smith III, her loving husband of almost fifty years. Devoted mother of Herbert L. Smith IV and Victoria Smith Walsh. Adored grandmother of Samantha G. Smith, Morgan M. Smith, Herbert L. Smith V, Christopher J. Smith, V
 TISHMAN -- Margaret W., (Peggy), 84, passed away peacefully on Friday, March 5, 2004. Beloved wife of 62 years of the late Alan V. Tishman, who predeceased her by seven weeks. Darling mother of Peggy (Pat) T., the late David Henry Tishman and the late Virginia (Nina) Alexander. Adored grand
 Odessa Edwards, a Southern gospel singer known for her passionate and topical sermonizing with the Original Gospel Harmonettes, died on Feb. 22 in Birmingham, Ala., where she lived. The cause was complications from a stroke, her granddaughter, Tausha Riley, said. Ms. Riley said Ms. 
 BARKHORN -- Jean Cook. Died on March 6, after a long struggle with cancer. Born in New York City on April 3, 1931. Raised in New York City and East Hampton, NY. Graduate of Westover School and Vassar College. Professional career of 38 years at Town & Country Magazine, where she was Managing
 FEINBERG--Gloria G. Brilliant, charming, generous, with rapier wit. Phi Beta Kappa, University of Pennsylvania. President of BFS Psychological, an international consulting organization. Pioneer in the Rorschach application for corporate executive selection. Survived by her loving family, hu
 GRUNEBAUM--Gabriele Hildegard. Of Rye, NY, and East Orleans, MA, died Monday, March 1, 2004, at her home in Westchester. She was 93 years old. Mrs. Grunebaum was born Gabriele Neumann in Cottbus, Germany, in 1910. She earned her law degree in Berlin before fleeing Germany with her late husb
 MANDEL -- Eva Levine. Peacefully, on March 6, 2004, age 99, of Brooklyn Heights, NY. Beloved mother and mother-in-law of Ira and Barbara Levine, and Edward and Judy Levine. Adored grandmother of Judy and Alan Garet, Ronald and Cheryl Levine, Karen and Joseph Carelli, and Daniel and Lauren L
 SILAGI--Alice Muenz. On March 6, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Paul. Cherished sister of the late Louise Muenz. Loved by her dear friends. Reposing Redden's Funeral Home, 325 West 14th Street, NYC, Tuesday, 2-5 pm, and 7-9 pm. Funeral Mass Wednesday, 10 am, Guardian Angel Church. Interment
 SMITH--Virginia W. Suddenly on March 3, 2004. Beloved wife of Herbert L. Smith III, her loving husband of almost fifty years. Devoted mother of Herbert L. Smith IV and Victoria Smith Walsh. Adored grandmother of Samantha G. Smith, Morgan M. Smith, Herbert L. Smith V, Christopher J. Smith, V
 WACHTEL--Dee. 88, of Somers, NY, on March 6, 2004. Predeceased by her late husband Perry Wachtel. Devoted mother of Stephanie, Robin and Lynne. Loving grandmother of five and greatgrandmother of seven. Services will be at 1 pm, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad St, Mount Vernon, N
 Margaret Westheimer Tishman, an organizer of the merged UJA-Federation of New York and its first president, died on Friday in Manhattan. She was 84 and lived on the Upper East Side. Her death was announced by the organization, in which she had been active for many years while it was
 BARKHORN -- Jean Cook. Died on March 6, after a long struggle with cancer. Born in New York City on April 3, 1931. Raised in New York City and East Hampton, NY. Graduate of Westover School and Vassar College. Professional career of 38 years at Town & Country Magazine, where she was Managing
 BLACK--Jean Martin. Passed away on March 2, 2004. Remembered lovingly by her daughter Melinda Jean Black and her granddaughter Bianca Jean Sausa.       
 FEINBERG--Gloria G. Brilliant, charming, generous, with rapier wit. Phi Beta Kappa, University of Pennsylvania. President of BFS Psychological, an international consulting organization. Pioneer in the Rorschach application for corporate executive selection. Survived by her loving family, hu
 GOLDBERG - FREUND -- Syl via (nee Barnett). Of Floral Park, N.Y. and West Palm Beach, FL., formerly of Woodmere, N.Y. Adored wife and best friend of the late David Goldberg and Dr. Sonny Freund. Beloved mother of Pommy and Gerald Levy, and Henry and Pauline Goldberg. Darling grandmother of 
 HOOPES -- Elizabeth Snow don, age 84, of Stonegate, in Greenville, DE, in Naples, FL, died on March 5, 2004 after a short illness. Born in Pittsburgh, PA on November 6, 1919, she was the daughter of the late Charles Leidy Snowdon, Jr. and Ruth Anna Johnson Snowdon. Mrs. Hoopes attended Elli
 LEMLICH -- Maisie nee Schevelenko. Born in New York City, died on March 6, 2004, at age 95. Beloved daughter of the late Minnie and Louis. Devoted and beloved wife of the late Stanley Lemlich for over 50 years. She is predeceased by her dear daughter-in-law Betty Gladys. Our beloved matriar
 SELIGMAN--Edith. We are deeply saddened by the untimely and tragic death of Edith. She was a very good friend and we will miss her terribly. No bridge game will ever be the same to us. Miriam Kaplan Estelle Florence       
 SMITH--Virginia W. Suddenly on March 3, 2004. Beloved wife of Herbert L. Smith III, her loving husband of almost fifty years. Devoted mother of Herbert L. Smith IV and Victoria Smith Walsh. Adored grandmother of Samantha G. Smith, Morgan M. Smith, Herbert L. Smith V, Christopher J. Smith, V
 TISHMAN -- Margaret W., (Peggy) nee Westheimer, 84, passed away peacefully on Friday, March 5, 2004. Beloved wife of 62 years of the late Alan V. Tishman, who predeceased her by seven weeks. Darling mother of Peggy (Pat) T. Hall, the late David Henry Tishman and the late Virginia (Nina) Ale
 Mary Lindsay, who as John V. Lindsay's accomplished, blue-blood wife brought casual elegance and political acumen to his campaigns for New York City mayor and other offices while fiercely protecting the family's limited privacy, died yesterday in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 77. The cau
 BELOFF--Ruth (Kahn), age 93, mother of Susan Kahn Gersten of NYC, died on March 6th in Chapel Hill, NC. She was born in New York City and lived in Denver, CO for over thirty years. She was the wife of Maxwell Kahn and Samuel Beloff. She is also survived by a son, Charles Kahn, a daughter, V
 COGAN--Arrial. On behalf of the Washington Square Association and the Friends of Washington Square Park, We share with Arrial Cogan's family the sorrow of her sudden passing. Her dedication to those she cared for and the activities she engaged in informed us of a superior life, spent genero
 ENTINE--Marjorie. 81. Passed away Monday, March 8. She is survived by her two sons Michael and Eric and daughter-in-law Terry as well as her three devoted grandchildren Michelle, Christopher and Nina. She lived her life with integrity and dignity. Her caring and concern for the ones she lov
 GOLDBERG - FREUND -- Syl via (nee Barnett). Of Floral Park, N.Y. and West Palm Beach, FL., formerly of Woodmere, N.Y. Adored wife and best friend of the late David Goldberg and Dr. Sonny Freund. Beloved mother of Pommy and Gerald Levy, and Henry and Pauline Goldberg. Darling grandmother of 
 KRELOFF--Ruth. The Continuum Health Partners Family notes with sadness the death of Ruth Kreloff, beloved mother of our esteemed colleague Susan Kind, Senior Vice President for Development. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to Susan, her family and loved ones. Morton P. Hyman, Chairman
 LINDSAY--Mary. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are saddened by the death of Mary Lindsay, loving and beloved wife of Founding Chairman, John V. Lindsay. Mary was such an extraordinary and vivacious person whose enthusiasm swept away all obstacles and impediments that life thre
 MANNION--Mary E. (neeMartin). Of Pompano Beach, FL., formerly of Jackson Heights, N.Y. Died peacefully March 6, 2004 in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Thomas M. Mannion. Devoted mother of Harold (Joan), Mary Elizabeth (Victor), Thomas Jr. (Joanne), Joan (Monte) and Nancy (Marc). Ca
 SELIGMAN--Edith. We are deeply saddened by the untimely and tragic death of Edith. She was a very good friend and we will miss her terribly. No bridge game will ever be the same to us. Miriam Kaplan Estelle Florence       
 STOLER--Jean, 87 years young at Sunrise, FL and Brooklyn, NY passed away peacefully in her sleep on March 8, 2004 leaving her devoted husband Barney Stoler with many cherished memories after 64 years of marriage; she is further survived by her loving daughter Marcia (William) Birnbaum and s
 TISHMAN -- Margaret W. (Peggy). The leadership, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities note with deep sorrow the loss of Peggy Tishman, an extraordinary and articulate advocate for the needs of the Jewish community. In addition to sixty years of inspired leadership and ded
 TISHMAN--Peggy. We are saddened by the sudden passing of this great lady. She will be missed by all those who were privileged to know and work with her. Our condolences to the family. Irving Schneider & Family       
 WOOLIS--Evelyn G. March 7, 2004, surrounded with love by her family. Activist, veteran, humanitarian, born February 4, 1918, survived by her four daughters, four grandchildren, four great grandchildren, many devoted nephews, nieces, and friends. We will miss her. Contributions in her name c
 COGAN--Arrial Seelye. Age 74, died on March 9, 2004. Widow of the late James R. Cogan, she is survived by her children, Sarah E., George W. and Julia C. Finney, and nine grandchildren. Memorial service on Friday, March 12, at 4 PM at The Church of the Ascension, 5th Ave., and 10th St. For t
 COHEN--Sara. Age 93. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel. Cherished mother of Dr. Charles I. Cohen and Ellen Dede. Adored grandmother of Dr. Deena and Rabbi Samuel Zimmerman, Drs Matthew and Sharon Cohen, Dr. Jessica and Richard Langer and ten great grandchildren. Aunt Sara to generations of t
 KORN--Shirley. On March 9, 2004. Beloved wife of Seymour. Loving mother of Rita and Billy. Dear sister of Florence Bograd. She will be deeply missed by all who loved her.       
 LINDSAY--Mary. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are saddened by the death of Mary Lindsay, loving and beloved wife of Founding Chairman, John V. Lindsay. Mary was such an extraordinary and vivacious person whose enthusiasm swept away all obstacles and impediments that life stre
 PALMER--Marcia S. Elegant; strong; composed; stunning; sharp; exquisite; sound; mighty; refined. March 8, 2004. Wife of the late Bernard Palmer; Mother of Robert and Sandee Palmer, Diane and Buddy Flateman, Mickey and Diane Palmer; Grandmother of Cary and Lori, Mindy, Jennie, Sadie, and Dan
 RYAN--Gertrude Carey (Trudy), 72, of Hallandale, Fla., formerly of Manhasset, L.I., on March 4, 2004. Beloved mother of Elaine Ryan Fallon of Baltimore, Md and Dr. Jay Ryan of San Mateo, Ca. Loving grandmother of Matthew, Anne and Peter Fallon and Jenna, Christopher and Nicholas Ryan. Dear 
 TISHMAN -- Margaret. The Board and Staff of AIPAC express our profound sorrow at the passing of a devoted proIsrael activist and friend of Israel, Peggy Tishman. She was an inspiring role model for all women, who led the way towards creating a stronger and more compassionate Jewish communit
 TISHMAN--Peggy. The Officers and Board of Directors of The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee are deeply sorrowed by the passing of Peggy Tishman, our esteemed Board member. She was an outstanding communal leader of great honesty, steadfast determination, and boundless energy who,
 COGAN--Arrial Seelye. Age 74, died on March 9, 2004. Widow of the late James R. Cogan, she is survived by her children, Sarah E., George W. and Julia C. Finney, and nine grandchildren. Memorial service on Friday, March 12, at 4 PM at The Church of the Ascension, 5th Ave., and 10th St. For t
 COHEN--Sarah. The Mohegan Park Jewish Center joins the family of Sarah Cohen in mourning her passing.       
 GOLDMAN -- Patricia M. passed away peacefully on March 11, 2004. Loving wife of the late Albert S. Goldman. Wonderful mother of Andrew & Nancy Goldman, Lynn & Larry Schan, Susan & Gene Resnick, Jane Goldman, and John & Wendy Goldman. Adored grandmother, greatgrandmother and step-grandmother
 LINDSAY--Mary. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are saddened by the death of Mary Lindsay, loving and beloved wife of Founding Chairman, John V. Lindsay. Mary was such an extraordinary and vivacious person whose enthusiasm swept away all obstacles and impediments that life stre
 SELLERS--Arlene, 82, March 5th in L.A. She and partner Alex Winitsky produced films and developed real estate. Active in women's organizations and the Democratic Party. Survived by Winitsky, three sons, five grandchildren. Donations: American Cancer Society.       
 Vivian Infantino, a longtime columnist for the trade weekly Footwear News who helped discover many shoe designers, died on Saturday at the Jacob Perlow Hospice in Manhattan. She was 77. The cause was cancer, Footwear News said. Ms. Infantino started writing a column called '
 Elise Asher, a painter and a poet who blended images and poetry in her work, died last Sunday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 92 and also had a studio and summer home in Provincetown, Mass. The cause was complications from a broken hip she suffered three weeks earlier, her
 GOLDMAN -- Patricia M. passed away peacefully on March 11, 2004. Loving wife of the late Albert S. Goldman. Wonderful mother of Andrew & Nancy Goldman, Lynn & Larry Schan, Susan & Gene Resnick, Jane Goldman, and John & Wendy Goldman. Adored grandmother, greatgrandmother and step-grandmother
 GREENLEAF--Carolyn R., of Essex, CT, succumbed March 11 after a valiant struggle with leukemia. She was born in Galesburg, Illinois, the beloved daughter of Dale and Nancy Ruedig and graduated from Mount Holyoke in 1975. She sang with the New Haven Chorale as a first soprano. She was active
 SELEVAN--Bashie R. Of Lawrence, NY and North Miami Beach, FL on March 12th. Predeceased by her adored husband Irwin Selevan. Loving mother of Lois Goodstein and Alan Selevan. Beloved sister of the late Freda Panzier, E.G. Rosenblatt and Belle Holtz. Beloved sister-in-law of Chanchy Blumenth
 ZALOUM--Carol Helen. (nee Mueller). Age 67. Passed away unexpectedly on March 11, 2004 after a brief illness. Loving mother of Helen, Rosemarie, Jonathan, Christina and Andrea. Adoring grandmother of Daniel, Jeffrey, Patrick, Kirstin, Sean, Nicholas and Nina. Caring wife of Richard. She wil
 BARTLETT -- Amy Wyllys. Poet and poetry editor, died on February 29, 2004, at the age of 54, at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center in New York City. Amy is survived by her son Byron, her sisters Lucia, Susan and Eliza, her brother John, her mother Christina, her brothers-in-law Robert Be
 COGAN--Arrial Seelye. Age 74, died on March 9, 2004. Widow of the late James R. Cogan, she is survived by her children, Sarah E., George W. and Julia C. Finney, and nine grandchildren. Memorial service on Friday, March 12, at 4 PM at The Church of the Ascension, 5th Ave., and 10th St. For t
 GRUNEBAUM--Gabriele Hildegard. Of Rye, NY, and East Orleans, MA, died Monday, March 1, 2004, at her home in Westchester. She was 93 years old. Mrs. Grunebaum was born Gabriele Neumann in Cottbus, Germany, in 1910. She earned her law degree in Berlin before fleeing Germany with her late husb
 HACKETT--Dr. Elizabeth. 73, of New York, NY, and Cannes, France, passed away on March 8, 2004. A graduate of the Fieldston School and Radcliffe College, Dr. Hackett received her Ph.D. from Harvard. In 1969, she joined Pfizer Pharmaceuticals where she made major contributions to the developm
 HARRIS--Jessie. Reporter for PM in the 1930's & 1940's and who worked as an analyst for TASS in New York for 60 years, died three days after her 94th birthday at her home in Rego Park, N.Y. She maintained an unshakeable belief in social justice and respect for all life. Ms. Harris is surviv
 KORN--Shirley. On March 9, 2004. Beloved wife of Seymour. Loving mother of Rita and Billy. Dear sister of Florence Bograd. She will be deeply missed by all who loved her.       
 KURSCH--Victoria Offerman. The Board of Directors, Staff and members of the YM & YWHA of Washington Heights and Inwood express profound sorrow upon the passing of Victoria Offerman Kursch, mother of our esteemed Honorary President and Director, Stephen Offerman and beloved wife of Sol Kursc
 LEVINE--Arthur B., on March 11th, 2004. Beloved husband of Sybil. Loving father of Marcia and Michael Mimran, Carol Levine and her partner, Melissa Slaybaugh. Dear brother of Jack and Anita Levine. Adoring grandfather of Avital, Liana, Yehuda and Galit. Devoted uncle, cousin, friend and col
 LINDSAY--Mary. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Theatre Development Fund mourn the passing of our admired colleague. From 1982-1998, Ms. Lindsay served as a valued trustee, and for 3 of those years she was the Vice President of TDF's Board. Her wise counsel and enthusiasm helped move the 
 MALLEY -- Rachelle (nee Liberman). Saturday, March 13, 2004, in Palm City, FL, at age 72, after a long and brave struggle with cancer. She was admired and loved by all who knew her for the caring, modest and dignified way she led her life, and the many good works she performed to leave the 
 SCHUCKMAN -- Elaine. 79. Died on March 12, 2004, after a brief illness. Devoted wife of the late Herman. Loving mother to Gil and Aileen, Nancy and Jim, and predeceased by daughter Roberta. Grandmother to Sasha, Matthew, Amanda and A.J. Sister of Sheila and dear friend of Jessica. Public sc
 SELEVAN--Bashie R. Of Lawrence, NY and North Miami Beach, FL on March 12th. Predeceased by her adored husband Irwin Selevan. Loving mother of Lois Goodstein and Alan Selevan. Beloved sister of the late Freda Panzier, E.G. Rosenblatt and Belle Holtz. Beloved sister-in-law of Chanchy Blumenth
 STAWASZ--Cherie, 57, on 26 of February in Guadalajara, Mexico. Founder of Stawasz Communications, formerly affiliated with the Jordan McGrath Case & Taylor Advertising Agency, and recently consultant to RF/Binder Partners. Known for her creativity, passion, and ability to develop programs t
 ZACHARIUS -- Alice. On March 13, 2004. Beloved wife of Walter. Loving mother of Steven and Judith. Devoted mother - in - law of Robin. Adoring grandmother of Cori and Adam. Dear sister of Chester and the late Stanley. She was active in the National Council of Jewish Women and many other org
 ZALOUM--Carol Helen. (nee Mueller). Age 67. Passed away unexpectedly on March 11, 2004 after a brief illness. Loving mother of Helen, Rosemarie, Jonathan, Christina and Andrea. Adoring grandmother of Daniel, Jeffrey, Patrick, Kirstin, Sean, Nicholas and Nina. Caring wife of Richard. She wil
 GREEN--Estelle (nee Rothenberg). Beloved wife of Robert. Loving and devtoed mother of Peter and Sara. She is survived by her stepmother Beatrice Rothenberg, her brother Mark Rothenberg, her step-brother Michael Weinberg, nieces Meg Fink and Ronnie Goldberg, nephews Michael, Matthew and Mark
 HACKETT--Dr. Elizabeth. 73, of New York, NY, and Cannes, France, passed away on March 8, 2004. A graduate of the Fieldston School and Radcliffe College, Dr. Hackett received her Ph.D. from Harvard. In 1969, she joined Pfizer Pharmaceuticals where she made major contributions to the developm
 HORI CALLERY--Tomoko. In Boston, MA, of Hopkinton, MA. Mrs. Tomoko Hori Callery and her twin son fetuses. Beloved wife of Robert J. Callery and devoted mother of Isabella Miwa Callery. Loving daughter of Koichiro and Masayo (Kuroyanagi) Hori of Framingham, MA. Presently employed at Gillette
 LINDSAY--Mary. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Theatre Development Fund mourn the passing of our admired colleague. From 1982-1998, Ms. Lindsay served as a valued trustee, and for 3 of those years she was the Vice President of TDF's Board. Her wise counsel and enthusiasm helped move the 
 ZACHARIUS -- Alice. On March 13, 2004. Beloved wife of Walter. Loving mother of Steven and Judith. Devoted mother - in - law of Robin. Adoring grandmother of Cori and Adam. Dear sister of Chester and the late Stanley. She was active in the National Council of Jewish Women and many other org
 AVEDON--Evelyn Franklin. Wife of Richard, mother of John, mother-in-law of Laura, grandmother of William, Matthew, Michael, and Caroline. Died peacefully March 13, 2004. Her grace, beauty, and loving heart will be missed by all who knew her.       
 FELD--Audrey N., of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of New York, NY, passed away on March 15th, 2004. Wife of the late Philip Feld, mother of Ila Feld Davidoff and Lee Neil Feld, grandmother of Joshua James Clarkson, Alexander Jay Feld and Courtney Blair Feld. May she rest in peace. Burial service
 LIPOW--Helga, nee Fluss. Beloved wife of Herbert. Devoted mother of Jane & Alan Cornell, Wendy & Richard Goldstein. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Kimberly, Lauren, Jacob, & Jonathan. Adoring great-grandmother of Chloe. Loving sister of Ilse & Gus Goldschmidt, Ruth & Henry Wertheimer, an
 MILES--Genevieve Browning. On March 13, 2004. Loving wife of the late Donald Stagg Miles. Beloved mother of Richard Miles, Haverford, PA and of Judith Miles of Brooklyn, NY, and mother-inlaw of Barbara Miles and William H. David. Cherished grandmother of Christopher, Courtney, John and Andr
 POLLACK -- Julia. Beloved wife of the late Max. Devoted mother of Amy & Bernard Most and Jessica & Charles Kleinman. Cherished grandmother of Glenn & Lisa, Eric, Ari & Sarah, and Joshua. Loving great-grandmother of Samantha, Nicholas and Sydney. Services Wednesday 9:45AM at ''The Riverside,
 ZACHARIUS--Alice. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member, Alice Zacharius. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President       
 Geneviève, the French chanteuse best remembered for her unfailing ability to mangle the English language during regular appearances on Jack Paar's ''Tonight Show,'' died Sunday morning at her home in Los Angeles. She was 83 and also had a home in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was co
 Lisa Gubernick, an author and reporter who wrote about the entertainment industry for The Wall Street Journal and as the Hollywood correspondent for Forbes magazine, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 48 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was
 ALLOO--Jane Stevens (Griswold), 82, died on Saturday March 13, 2004 of natural causes. Survived by her former husband and father of her children, Hector W. Griswold, Naples, FL; her daughter Penelope G. Parson, Cape Elizabeth, ME; her son Hector W. Griswold, Jr., Hopewell, NJ and 3 grandchi
 FELDENKRIS--Minna (nee Nadler). Beloved wife of the late Lewis A. (Uncle Lew), loving aunt to Gloria Roberts, Joy and Bill Feinstein, Blanche and Bob Nadler, and Gerrie Nadler. A caring great aunt of Ken, Karen, Jon, and Lisa Roberts; Joe Feinstein; Kathi and Mark Rerek; Amy and Larry Golod
 GOLDSTEIN -- Jeanette M. The Goldstein family announces with sadness the sudden passing of Jeanette M. Goldstein, beloved and devoted wife of the late Dr. Edward Goldstein, devoted mother of Bunny Goldstein and Drs. Leonard and Maria Goldstein, cherished aunt and great-aunt of her many niec
 HOROWITZ -- Leon. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to our devoted member Anita Horowitz on the passing of her beloved father. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, President       
 ISRAEL--Pauline (nee Carasso). Of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., formerly of Greenport and Lawrence, N.Y. Peacefully passed away March 16, 2004. She was the cherished wife of Isaac, loving mother of Arthur (Jodi), Sol (Jackie) and Richard (Lisa), beloved grandmother of Alison, David, Rachel, Jason,
 KRAMER--Sylvia Rosenthal, of Hollywood, FL, passed away Monday March 15, 2004 at the age of 93. Predeceased by her husbands Joseph Rosenthal and Jack Kramer and by her brother Paul Weisman and her sisters Molly Gurwitch, May Weisman and Anne Stowell and survived by her children Alice Brachm
 LA GRANGE--Eileen Morgan, 95 years old. Wife of Frank Crawford La Grange, deceased in 1964. Mother of Brenda Eileen La Grange Johnson and Louise La Grange Hitt. Eileen loved her life in the Forest Hills Gardens where she lived for over 65 years. The Church in the Gardens and The West Side T
 WEISS--Annie (nee Siegel). Beloved bride of the late Hyman; adored mother of Brian, Beverly and Sheri; cherished grandmother of Holly and Howard; devoted mother-inlaw of Kenneth Eldi and Ada Weiss; caring sister of Bessie Smith. Her passing has left a hole in our hearts.       
 ZELLERMAIER -- Helen G. Beloved wife of Irwin Zellermaier. Loving mother of Margery (Marshale) and Nancy (Harold). Devoted grandmother to Carly and Lindsay. A successful jewelry designer under the name Editions by Helen Z. Helen will be greatly missed by her extended family and many friends
 ALLOO--Jane Stevens (Griswold), 82, died on Saturday March 13, 2004 of natural causes. Survived by her former husband and father of her children, Hector W. Griswold, Naples, FL; her daughter Penelope G. Parson, Cape Elizabeth, ME; her son Hector W. Griswold, Jr., Hopewell, NJ and 3 grandchi
 GREENE--Tatiana Josephine Wolf. On Saturday, March 13, Mrs. Greene passed away at St. Luke's Hospital, Manhattan. Dr. Greene retired in 1987 as Full Professor in the French Department, Barnard College, Columbia University after 41 years of devoted teaching. She was the author of the definit
 ISRAEL--Pauline (nee Carasso). Of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., formerly of Greenport and Lawrence, N.Y. Peacefully passed away March 16, 2004. She was the cherished wife of Isaac, loving mother of Arthur (Jodi), Sol (Jackie) and Richard (Lisa), beloved grandmother of Alison, David, Rachel, Jason,
 KUROKAWA--Yoshiko. We mourn the passing of our beloved friend. Her elegance, generosity of spirit and wisdom shall never be forgotten. She was a true treasure. Nannette and Stephen Sloan       
 LA GRANGE--Eileen Morgan, 95 years old. Wife of Frank Crawford La Grange, deceased in 1964. Mother of Brenda Eileen La Grange Johnson and Louise La Grange Hitt. Eileen loved her life in the Forest Hills Gardens where she lived for over 65 years. The Church in the Gardens and The West Side T
 LEVY-MEYER--Janet M., 65, scholar, musicologist, wife, sister, friend, died peacefully, surrounded by her family, on March 16, 2004 after a valiant fight with cancer. A graduate of Vassar College, with a PhD from Stanford University, she was well-known for her outstanding scholarship on Bee
 ROSAND--Frieda. On March 16, 2004, at age 94. Cherished wife of the late J. Herbert and loving mother of the late Michael, David, mother-in-law of Ellen, proud grandmother of Jonathan (Judy Polacheck) and Eric, doting greatgrandmother of Benjamin and Oliver. She was a friend and mentor to g
 SCHICK -- Joan Buchbinder. On March 17, 2004. Resident of Highland Park, N.J. She was the thirteenth born of the 25 third generation cousins now part of a sixth generation Meyer and Emma Buchbinder family that settled in Bayonne more than a hundred years ago. Joan celebrated her faith and f
 SELEVAN--Bashie R. AMIT is deeply grieved by the passing of our beloved Honorary National Vice-President, Bashie R. Selevan, z''l, cherished wife of Irwin, z''l. A woman of deep compassion, she was a most generous benefactor whose philanthropy nurtured and saved thousands of poor Israeli ch
 STRAUSS--Florence. Age 85. Formerly of South Fallsburg, N.Y. Passed on to a more peaceful place March 14, 2004 in Delray Beach, FL. She is survived by her companion Aaron Denenburg, sons Dr. Russell (Myrna) and Dr. Teddy (Maddy), five grandchildren, six great grandchildren. Her passion for 
 TIERNEY--Patricia, 49, a woman who lit up a room with her smile, died on March 17, 2004. Enormously loved and cherished by all who knew her. Patty, you're in our hearts forever. March 18 (49pm) Edwards - Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave, Dobbs Ferry, NY. 1-800564-3330, March 19, 9:30am M
 von Stoephasius--Renata. On March 17, 2004. Died peacefully at her home at age 91. Talented editor and good friend to many. Contributions in her memory may be made to Hertzberg Palliative Care Institute, Mount Sinai Medical Center, Box 1070, 1 Gustav Levy Pl, N.Y., N.Y. 10029.       
 Jane Wood, a longtime tenant advocate and political radical in New York who once pressured her landlord to replace a broken elevator by sleeping on an air mattress in the lobby, died on Wednesday at her apartment in Manhattan. She was 96. Ms. Wood died from respiratory complications
 Joan Cullman, a Tony Award-winning producer on Broadway, died yesterday at her winter home in Tryall, Jamaica. She was 72 and also had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Tracy Straus. Ms. Cullman was a producer of at le
 CULLMAN -- Joan Paley Straus. The Artists, Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are dismayed by the grievous news of the untimely death of our extraordinary Vice Chairman. Joan has been a powerful force in the re-creation of this theater, a devoted Trustee whose passionate advocacy and
 Di GANGI--Linda, Ph.D., on March 17. Beloved daughter of the late M. Richard, MD and Marie. Loving sister of Richard, Peter and Roberta. Sister-in-law of Lana and Judy. Dear aunt of Christi, Becky, Kate and Matt. Linda was a psychologist for the Bellmore-Merrick School District as well as i
 ELLIOTT -- Jane Rader. Passed away peacefully on March 18, 2004. We will miss our beloved Jane Rader Elliott--our Scooter and Mom and Muzzy. She will be missed by her mother, Eleanor Rader, of Tulsa, OK and brother, John L. Rader of San Rafael, CA. She was the treasured wife of Wright, lovi
 GERSTLE--Andrea Dee. She left us on March 17th for a better place that is free of pain. Beloved wife of Mark, devoted mother of Cara Cee and Morgan Mei. Dear sister of Jan Barkan. Loving and cherished aunt. Services at ''The Riverside'', 76th St & Amsterdam Ave, NYC, today at 1:15 PM. Contr
 GUBERNICK--Lisa. The families of The Brearley School Class of 2013 note with great sadness the passing of Lisa Gubernick, mother of Lily Fishleder. We will always remember Lisa's courage, humor and spirit, and keep her in our hearts. We send love and comfort to Lily, Paul, and Grace.       
 KUROKAWA--Yoshiko. We mourn the passing of our beloved friend. Her elegance, generosity of spirit and wisdom shall never be forgotten. She was a true treasure. Nannette and Stephen Sloan       
 MacGUIGAN--Virginia Duncan, 86, died on March 15, 2004 in NYC after a long illness. Survived by her son, Duncan A. MacGuigan of NYC and by her daughter, Candace Roosevelt of Boston, and by two grandchildren, Winthrop and Amanda Roosevelt. Private services.       
 WACHTEL--Norma of Suffern, NY and Boca Raton, FL. Died March 18, 2004 at the age of 74. Devoted wife of Ed. Loving mother of Alan, Jonathan, Adam, Adina, Gail, Douglas and Susan. Beloved grandmother of Jason, Matthew, Toni, Scott, Jessica, Lauren, Matthew, Emma, Erica and Nicole. Her spirit
 WHALEN--Ruth Anne Lynch, 93, of Albany, NY died, Tuesday, March 16, 2004 at Saint Peter's Hospice Inn. She was the wife of the late Frank M. Lynch and the late Thomas M. Whalen, Jr. She is survived by a son John E. Lynch of Block Island, RI, two daughters Mary Lynch Toomy of Irvington, NY a
 Ella Johnson, a jazz singer who performed with her brother Buddy Johnson in his dance bands in the 1940's and 50's, died in New York on Feb. 16, her nephew James Johnson Jr. said. She was 86. A smooth singer with a seductive delivery, Ms. Johnson was often compared to Billie Holiday
 CULLMAN -- Joan Paley Straus. The Board and Staff of National Dance Institute mourn the passing of arts advocate, visionary producer and philanthropist Joan Cullman, mother of our Associate Artistic Director and Board member Tracy Straus. NDI joins the numerous arts organizations and artist
 Di GANGI--Linda, Ph.D., on March 17. Beloved daughter of the late M. Richard, MD and Marie. Loving sister of Richard, Peter and Roberta. Sister-in-law of Lana and Judy. Dear aunt of Christi, Becky, Kate and Matt. Linda was a psychologist for the Bellmore-Merrick School District as well as i
 GERSTLE--Andrea D. The Board of 336 Central Park West mourn the loss of Andrea as a neighbor and friend. As a member of the Board for over 10 years and President for the last 3 years, Andrea was extremely generous of herself in these roles. The entire building, residents and staff will feel
 GUBERNICK--Lisa. The families of The Brearley School Class of 2013 note with great sadness the passing of Lisa Gubernick, mother of Lily Fishleder. We will always remember Lisa's courage, humor and spirit, and keep her in our hearts. We send love and comfort to Lily, Paul, and Grace.       
 KLEIN--Irene Vladeck, 90, of Putnam Valley, NY died peacefully March 19, 2004. Predeceased by two loving husbands, William Vladeck and Abraham Klein. She was a devoted sister to her brothers, Drs. Sigmund and Jacob Lichterman. She was a teacher and a city planner by profession, and an invol
 STEINHACKER--Roslyn, on March 19, 2004. Graveside service Monday, March 22nd, 1 PM, Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, NY. Her family and friends will miss her loving spirit.       
 WACHTEL--Norma of Suffern, NY and Boca Raton, FL. Died March 18, 2004 at the age of 74. Devoted wife of Ed. Loving mother of Alan, Jonathan, Adam, Adina, Gail, Douglas and Susan. Beloved grandmother of Jason, Matthew, Toni, Scott, Jessica, Lauren, Matthew, Emma, Erica and Nicole. Her spirit
 A memorial service for the actress and teacher Uta Hagen will be held on Thursday at 1 p.m. at the Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, Manhattan. She died on Jan. 14 at 84. The service is open to the public and will include readings and reminiscences by friends and colleagues in
 BAYER--Joella, died February 18, 2004, in Montecito, California aged 96. She was born Joella Synara Haweis in Bagni di Lucca, Italy, July 20, 1907, of British parents; her father was a painter and her mother, Mina Loy, a noted poet. The family lived in Florence until 1923 when she, her moth
 BERMAN--Marion. Of Hewlett Bay Park. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Loving mother of Peter and Roberta Berman, Wendie Grossman, Stephan and Laura Berman. Cherished grandmother of Karen, Amy, Matthew, Daniel, David, Samuel, Avram, Alice, and Keith. Adored great-grandmother of six. Sister to
 CULLMAN--Joan. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Joan Cullman, beloved wife of Joseph Cullman III. Joseph and Joan, cherished friends of UJA-Federation, have been deeply devoted to the Jewish community, humanitarian causes, and cu
 DEITCHMAN -- Gertrude. Died peacefully March 15th, of a broken heart. Her ''one and only love'' Bernard died November 11th, 2002 in Boca Raton, FL. Devoted mother to Barbara and Richard Lawrence of Malibu, CA, and Sue and Victor Borod of Alpharetta, GA. Cherished grandmother to Seth and Eva
 ELLIOTT -- Jane Rader. Passed away peacefully on March 18, 2004. We will miss our beloved Jane Rader Elliott--our Scooter and Mom and Muzzy. She will be missed by her mother, Eleanor Rader, of Tulsa, OK and brother, John L. Rader of San Rafael, CA. She was the treasured wife of Wright, lovi
 FELD--Audrey N., of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of New York, NY, passed away on March 15th, 2004. Wife of the late Philip Feld, mother of Ila Feld Davidoff and Lee Neil Feld, grandmother of Joshua James Clarkson, Alexander Jay Feld and Courtney Blair Feld. May she rest in peace.       
 FISHER--Grace S. Passed away on March 20, 2004, at the age of 57, after a brave struggle with pancreatic cancer. She was the loving daughter of the late Dr. Morris and Myrtle M. Fisher, the adored sister of Estelle Comay, and Susan, Frank, and Gordon Fisher, and their spouses, Dr. Bruce Rab
 GERSTLE--Andrea D. The Board of 336 Central Park West mourn the loss of Andrea as a neighbor and friend. As a member of the Board for over 10 years and President for the last 3 years, Andrea was extremely generous of herself in these roles. The entire building, residents and staff will feel
 GUBERNICK--Lisa. The families of The Brearley School Class of 2013 note with great sadness the passing of Lisa Gubernick, mother of Lily Fishleder. We will always remember Lisa's courage, humor and spirit, and keep her in our hearts. We send love and comfort to Lily, Paul, and Grace.       
 HADLEY--Dr. Jane B., died on March 18, 2004 at 74 years after a courageous battle with cancer. Jane was born in New York City, graduated from Music and Art High School in 1945, and from the University of Virginia in 1949 on a full scholarship, Junior Phi Beta Kappa and Summa Cum Laude. She 
 KLEIN--Irene Vladeck, 90, of Putnam Valley, NY died peacefully March 19, 2004. Predeceased by two loving husbands, William Vladeck and Abraham Klein. She was a devoted sister to her brothers, Drs. Sigmund and Jacob Lichterman. She was a teacher and a city planner by profession, and an invol
 LERNER -- Rose. Beloved mother of Nathan (Zeke) and Linda. Devoted mother-inlaw of Lenore and Marty. Cherished grandmother of Peter and Stephanie, Laurence, Jordan and Alanna, Danny and Betsy. Sister-inlaw of Eleanore. Greatgrandmother of Jacob, Clay, Ronni, and Ari. Donations in her memory
 RANDOLPH--Muriel L., 74, died in a landslide on March 15, while in northern Vietnam. Founder and president of Randolph Properties, a real estate brokerage firm in Westchester County, she was known to friends and family as Mickey. She was born and raised in Brooklyn and graduated from Adelph
 RESTOUT--Denise Theresa. 88, of 63 Millerton Rd, died Tuesday, at the St. Francis Medical Center in Hartford, CT. She was born November 24, 1915, in Paris, France, daughter of the late Fernand and Julitte (Frangois) Restout. Miss Restout has been a resident of the United States since 1941. 
 RICHARDSON -- Barbara P. Passed away on March 8th, 2004 at age 85. Formerly of Westport and Southport, CT, she was the beloved wife of the late Derek Richardson and leaves behind her five children, Derek P., David S., Gay R. Smith, Franklin S. (Tony), and Kate R. Jamison. She is also surviv
 SCHNEIDER -- Micki. On March 18th, of Dallas, TX, formerly of Foster City, CA. Beloved wife of Philip, loving mother of Richard and Michael, mother-in-law of Basya and Shannon, grandmother of Aaron. Loving sister-in-law of Dr. Norman and Stephanie Schneider and aunt of Andrew of Roslyn, NY.
 TEGUNS -- Helen. Passed away at 103. Beloved wife of the late Raymond. She leaves son Alan (Sylvia), brother Albert Rudner, three granddaughters Cynthia, Amy and Becky and nieces and one nephew. In her memory send donations to your favorite charity.       
 Princess Juliana, the modest and beloved queen of The Netherlands for 32 years, died early Saturday. She was 94. The government announced that she had died of pneumonia at the Soestdijk Palace, her longtime home, surrounded by three of her four daughters, including Queen Beatrix. He
 Genia Melikova, a leading ballerina with the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas and a noted ballet teacher in the United States, died on March 5. She was 74. Alice Helpern, a friend and colleague, said that Ms. Melikova collapsed in the lobby of her apartment building in Manhattan an
 ASCH--Amy Ruth (nee Cohen). Beloved wife of Sidney. Beloved mother of Jane and Nancy. Adored grandmother of Emily. A pillar of her community. A beacon for her family. A gifted social worker by instinct and by training at UCLA and Columbia. Always outspoken, her piercing insight into the liv
 FISHER--Grace S. Passed away on March 20, 2004, at the age of 57, after a brave struggle with pancreatic cancer. She was the loving daughter of the late Dr. Morris and Myrtle M. Fisher, the adored sister of Estelle Comay, and Susan, Frank, and Gordon Fisher, and their spouses, Dr. Bruce Rab
 FROMOWITZ--Rose Krepistman. Beloved mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, teacher, activist, advocate, lover of life and the arts. Funeral Monday, March 22, 1 pm, The Plaza, 91 St and Amsterdam Ave. FROMOWITZ--Rose. Three Arrows Cooperative Society mourns the loss of beloved, long
 HADLEY--Dr. Jane B., died on March 18, 2004 at 74 years after a courageous battle with cancer. Jane was born in New York City, graduated from Music and Art High School in 1945, and from the University of Virginia in 1949 on a full scholarship, Junior Phi Beta Kappa and Summa Cum Laude. She 
 KENNEDY--Marie. Of Big Horn, Wyoming, formerly of Rye, New York. Beloved wife of 58 years of Peter M. Kennedy, loving and devoted mother of Peter, Paul and John, mother-in-law of Carroll Culhane Kennedy, grandmother of Sarah Dolce and of Paul, Burke, Nicholas, Hilary, Matthew, Catherine, Ja
 KLEIN--Irene Vladeck. Three Arrows Cooperative Society mourns the passing of beloved, longtime member, Irene V. Klein. Her warmth and caring will be rememberd, as well as her contributions, including Vice President, Town Affairs liaison, and contributor to the Voice. Her daily presence on t
 LATOY--Helen Dodge. Mother of the late Marilyn Sewell McGuire, died on March 18, 2004. She was born in Douglaston, Long Island, NY, and also lived in New York City for many years. Mrs. Latoy spent seven years in Honolulu and was witness to the Pearl Harbor attack on December 7, 1941. She at
 VOLKMAN--Sally Blaufeld. 86. The family of Sally Volkman sadly announces her death on March 19. Sally's spirit of friendship touched so many lives. Her beloved husband Rabbi Samuel Volkman survives her, as do her beloved daughters, Suzanne and Nancy, son-in-law Edward Skloot, and grandson J
 Ludmilla Tcherina, a raven-haired French artist and ballet star who danced for many of Europe's top choreographers, died on Sunday at her home in Paris at the age of 79, France's culture ministry said today. The cause of her death was not immediately known. Famous for her be
 Lynn L. Seidler, the former executive director of the Shubert Foundation, which provides grants to support live professional theater and dance, died on Thursday while vacationing in the Turks and Caicos Islands. She was 67 and lived in Sanibel, Fla. The cause was lung cancer, which 
 ASCH--Amy Ruth (nee Cohen). Beloved wife of Sidney. Beloved mother of Jane and Nancy. Adored grandmother of Emily. A pillar of her community. A beacon for her family. A gifted social worker by instinct and by training at UCLA and Columbia. Always outspoken, her piercing insight into the liv
 COHEN--Annette (nee Kopperman). Age 86. Died peacefully near her hometown of Philadelphia on March 21, 2004. A devoted wife and mom who lived life with gusto, she is survived by her beloved husband Marty, sons, Jeffrey and Stephen, daughter-in-law Cheryl and cherished granddaughter Samantha
 ELLIOTT--Jane Rader. The Board, staff and volunteers of The New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the untimely death of their esteemed friend, Jane Rader Elliott. Jane, as a volunteer, and her husband Wright, as a Board member and Advisor, served the Garden throughout the last de
 FELDMAN -- Dorothy (nee Aaronson). Beloved wife of the late Louis David. Devoted mother of Andrew and Ilene and Jeffrey and Hon. Marsha Steinhardt. Loving grandmother of Neil and Shari. Services at Temple Beth Emeth v'Or Progressive Shaare Zedek, Church Avenue and Marlboro Road, Brooklyn, t
 FISHER--Grace. Fight for Sight notes with sorrow the passing of Grace Fisher who served as our Executive Director from 1998-2003. We extend our sincere sympathy to her beloved husband, Monte, and her entire family. Board of Directors       
 FOUGERAY -- Catherine Walsh. Died peacefully March 21, 2004. A resident of Murdock Woods, Mamaroneck, she was the daughter of the late Peter and Catherine Walsh of New Rochelle. With her late husband Louis, she was the co-proprietor of Fougeray Jewelers in Manhattan. Upon retirement, she de
 FREEMAN--Eva, age 102, passed away at home March 22 surrounded by her devoted relatives. A magnificent matriarch. A native of Hamburg who fled Nazi Germany with her husband, Dr. Ernest Freeman, and five children who survive her: Mrs. Jenny Michael (Kenneth), Rabbi Chaim Freeman (Bitya), Rab
 FROMOWITZ--Rose. Three Arrows Cooperative Society mourns the loss of beloved, longtime member Rose Fromowitz. We remember her warm and effervescent personality, her love of music and dance, her generous nature and her love of family. Condolences to her children, grandchildren and greatgrand
 GARVEY--Glenda J., M.D. The Department of Medicine notes with deep sorrow the untimely death on March 22, 2004 of Dr. Glenda J. Garvey, Professor of Clinical Medicine, whose association with and contributions to our Department extend back some 35 years. An alumna of Wellesley College, a gra
 GREENWALD -- Tillie on March 22, 2004 in her 102nd year. Beloved wife of the late Harry Jay Greenwald. Loving mother of Ralphine Rosa, Lois Forman and mother-inlaw of Daniel. Cherished grandmother of Hilary Jay Rosa. Services private. Contributions in her memory may be made to Central Synag
 HADLEY--Dr. Jane B., died on March 18, 2004 at 74 years after a courageous battle with cancer. Jane was born in New York City, graduated from Music and Art High School in 1945, and from the University of Virginia in 1949 on a full scholarship, Junior Phi Beta Kappa and Summa Cum Laude. She 
 PAPPAS--Vasiliki (Tessie), of Garden City, NY, on March 21, 2004. Beloved wife of the late James. Loving mother of Chris J. and Peter J. (Catherine). Dear grandmother of five and great-grandmother of eight. Also survived by her sister, Mary Argyros. Reposing Fairchild Sons Funeral Home, 120
 RANDOLPH -- Muriel. The Board of Trustees, the Board of Overseers, and the staff of the Katonah Museum of Art are deeply saddened by the death of our friend, community leader, and member of the Board of Overseers, Muriel Randolph. Her generosity was felt on many fronts. She will be missed a
 SEIDLER--Lynn. With profound sadness her family announces that Lynn passed away peacefully March 18, 2004 of lung cancer. She died doing her heart's desire, traveling with her beloved husband of 45 years, Lee. She was the loving daughter of William Lopatin and stepdaughter of Joan. The cher
 WALD--Adolph. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our member, Mrs. Clarissa Kirschenbaum. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 CHRISTIAN--Diane Collings. On March 23 at her home on Amelia Island, FL, following a lingering neurological illness. She was the loving wife of Dr. Charles L. Christian and adoring mother of Victoria, Jennifer and Matthew and grandmother of Maxmillian, Daphne, Luke and Maria. Mrs. Christian
 COHEN--Annette (nee Kopperman). Age 86. Died peacefully near her hometown of Philadelphia on March 21, 2004. A devoted wife and mom who lived life with gusto, she is survived by her beloved husband Marty, sons, Jeffrey and Stephen, daughter-in-law Cheryl and cherished granddaughter Samantha
 EDELMAN--Rose. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Marsha and Lenore (Richard). Adoring grandmother of Dana, David and Brad. She will be greatly missed.       
 FRENCH--Mary Lynn (nee Osborn), wife of the late Morton R. French, passed away on March 22, 2004. Mrs. French was a resident of Delray Beach, FL and Rockville Centre, NY. Daughter of the late Catherine Lynn & Patrick Vincent Osborn, she is survived by her children: Raymond, Mary Lynn and Ja
 GARVEY--Dr. Glenda J. Died on Monday, March 22. Esteemed and beloved Professor of Medicine at Columbia University for nearly three decades. Survived by her brother Dr. Thomas Q. Garvey III, sister-in-law Dr. Carol Garvey, and nephew Dr. Thomas Q. Garvey IV. Funeral Mass Friday at 11 AM, St.
 PARKER--Laura. March 22, 2004. Loving mother of Caroline Parker Young and her husband Alan. Adored grandmother of Jennifer, Meredith and Christopher. Devoted sister of Pauline Wekser. Funeral private.       
 SCHLACHTER -- Diane on March 23, 2004. Adored wife of Leonard. Loving mother of Jordan and Heather. Dear sister of Barbara. Beloved sister-in-law of Marvin and Trudy Schlachter. Cherished aunt of Brad, Scott, Sandra, Kristofer. Services Thursday 10:30am at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Ams
 SEIDLER--Lynn. The Board and staff of The Shubert Foundation are deeply saddened by the loss of Lynn Seidler, our longtime Executive Director. Her exceptional vision and dedication were instrumental in the development of The Foundation as a leading supporter of not-forprofit theatre and dan
 SIMON--Alice Kibrik. 95, of Franklin, Massachusetts, in Boston on March 20, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Maurice Simon, adored mother of daughter Nancy, and son-inlaw Mervyn Kaufman, of New York City, and son, George Simon, and daughterin-law Marilyn, of Franklin, cherished grandmother of
 UNTERMEYER -- Salle Po dos. Of New York City and Wainscott, N.Y. Passed away March 20, 2004. Beloved wife of Walter, devoted mother of Richard and Lisa, caring daughter of David and Rose, fond sister of Harriet, and cherished friend of many-she will be greatly missed. Graduate of Vassar Col
 KLISANIN -- Robin Elaine. March 21, 1966-March 8, 2003. Lived in the art/dance community for 20 years as an artist, dancer and musician. A former dancer in the Modern Dance Company, Mary Anthony Dance Theater. Student of Gelsey Kirkland, Janet Vella, Carol Rioux, Hilary Cartwright and David
 CHRISTIAN--Diane Collings. On March 23 at her home on Amelia Island, FL, following a lingering neurological illness. She was the loving wife of Dr. Charles L. Christian and adoring mother of Victoria, Jennifer and Matthew and grandmother of Maxmillian, Daphne, Luke and Maria. Mrs. Christian
 DAVIDSON--Grace M. Died on March 17 peacefully after a long illness. Widow of Sidney W. Davidson, Jr. and former resident of Bedford, NY, Milwaukee, WI, and Lyme, CT. She is survived by her children, Susan of Hanover, NH, Mary of Somers, NY, Sidney III (Tres) of Steamboat Springs, CO, Anne 
 ELLIOTT--Jane. The Board, staff and consultants of the National Executive Service Corps join in remembering Jane Elliott, wife of our immediate past Chairman Wright Elliott, who with her husband contributed so much to NESC. Nathaniel J. Sutton, Chairman Marvin Berenblum, President       
 EVANS--Dr. Jane. Born to the late James Harry Evans and Maybelle Holden Evans on October 31, 1907 passed away on March 24, 2004 after a year of illness. A woman of great intellect, integrity, and energy, who devoted herself to Jewish and philanthropic causes throughout her long and active l
 GARVEY--Dr. Glenda J. Died on Monday, March 22. Esteemed and beloved Professor of Medicine at Columbia University for nearly three decades. Survived by her brother Dr. Thomas Q. Garvey III, sister-in-law Dr. Carol Garvey, and nephew Dr. Thomas Q. Garvey IV. Funeral Mass Friday at 11 AM, St.
 SCHLACHTER -- Diane. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our beloved member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her husband Leonard, her children Jordan and Heather and sister Barbara and their loved ones. May her memory be for blessing and may her family be c
 SCOTCH--Sally of Astoria, Queens, at 91. Survived by husband George, children Arlene Wysong and Bill Schreiber, Carol Tweedy, Marty and Mary Alterman and grandchildren Justine Wysong, Jacob and Josh Alterman. First woman board member of the Board of Directors of the Astoria Center of Israel
 SEIDLER--Lynn. The Board and staff of The Shubert Foundation are deeply saddened by the loss of Lynn Seidler, our longtime Executive Director. Her exceptional vision and dedication were instrumental in the development of The Foundation as a leading supporter of not-forprofit theatre and dan
 UNTERMEYER -- Salle Po dos. Of New York City and Wainscott, N.Y. Passed away March 20, 2004. Beloved wife of Walter, devoted mother of Richard and Lisa, caring daughter of David and Rose, fond sister of Harriet, and cherished friend of many-she will be greatly missed. Graduate of Vassar Col
 Mary B. Goodhue, a longtime New York State senator who lost her seat in 1992 in a rare Republican primary to a little-known assemblyman by the name of George E. Pataki, died on Wednesday at Northern Westchester Hospital, her son, Francis A. Goodhue III, said. She was 82 and lived in Bedford
 BODMAN -- Rosamund. A Thanksgiving service for the life of Rosamund Reed Bodman, died December 15, 2003, will be held on March 29, 2004 at 4 PM at St James Church, 865 Madison Ave, NY. A reception with her family will follow. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to Star Learning Center
 CONGRAM--Carole A., Ph.D., March 6, 2004. Carole, formerly with Touche Ross and Bentley College, was a lover of the arts and will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Memorial pending. email carolememorial@aol.com Buzz Congram Sharon and Bill Jochimsen Barbara Rosenthal       
 EVANS--Dr. Jane. Women of Reform Judaism is deeply saddened by the passing of our visionary and beloved first Executive Director, Dr. Jane Evans. During her 43 years as Executive Director she demonstrated her passionate commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes. Dr. Evans played a dynami
 GARFINKLE -- Zeena (nee Sima Barzach). On March 24th, at the age of 99. Beloved wife of the late Jacob. Beloved mother, mother-in-law, grandmother, and greatgrandmother. Her family will eternally be grateful for the many sacrifices she made and for the loving memories which will remain deep
 GARVEY--Glenda. The Department of Pediatrics at Columbia University College of Physicians & Surgeons celebrates the life of Glenda J. Garvey our dear colleague, beloved friend and ultimate role model. She embodied the best of our profession and lived every day to the fullest to ensure the s
 KINNICUTT--Elizabeth Morgan. Died at age 59 on March 25 at home in Lincolnville, ME. Beloved wife of Landon Thomas. Loving and admired stepmother of Landon, Stephanie and Frederic Thomas. Adored sister of Sybil Baldwin and Maisie Houghton. Memorial services private. Contributions in her mem
 PERCY--Constance Lebair. On Wednesday, March 24, 2004. Of Rockville, MD. Beloved wife of the late Joseph H. Percy. Devoted mother of Norma Percy and Connie Aaronson. Loving sister of Peggy Mann. Cherished grandmother of Debbie Aaronson and Abby and Aaron Peterson. Mother-in-law of Steve Jon
 RICHARDSON -- Barbara P. Passed away on March 8th, 2004 at age 85. Formerly of Westport and Southport, CT, she was the beloved wife of the late Derek Richardson and leaves behind her five children, Derek P., David S., Gay R. Smith, Franklin S. (Tony), and Kate R. Jamison. She is also surviv
 SCHLACHTER--Diane. An irreplaceable friend and special human being. Our heartfelt sympathy to Lenny, Heather, Jordan and Barbara. We will miss her too. Elinor & Howard Solomon       
 KREFETZ -- Rose. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 OSTERMANN--Berta E., on March 25, 2004, late of Wyckoff, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Hans Ostermann and patron, officer and leader of the Leiderkranz Society New York. Survived by her sister Emily Flohr, nephew William J. Flohr, Jr., niece Judith Carlisle and their families. Reposing at Fr
 PORITZKY--Audrey Miller, on March 25, 2004. Beloved wife of David, loving mother of Sophie Lena, devoted daughter of Anne and Laurence Miller, dear sister of Robert and his wife Amy. She will be deeply and sadly missed by her grandparents Beatrice and Joseph Miller, her nephews Jacob and Da
 PSYHOS -- Helen, 90, on March 22, 2004 in California. Helen and her husband Sarantos owned Windsor Florists in Manhattan until 1980 when they retired to Florida. Preceded in death by her husband and son Sarantos, Jr., she is survived by daughter Elenitsa Fields, granddaughter Marika Rice, s
 WILSON--June Parker, of New York City and Chilmark, MA, died on March 6 of Alzheimer's disease. She was 87 years old. Ms. Wilson translated 10 books from French to English, most in collaboration with Walter Benn Michaels, including the best-seller Papillon, by Henri Charriere. She was born 
 Dr. Rhoda L. Fisher, a psychotherapist who with her husband, Seymour Fisher, wrote popular books on subjects as varied as humor and child-rearing, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter, Dr. Eve Whitmore, in Medina, Ohio. She was 79 and had a home in Manlius, N.Y., a Syracuse suburb.   
 Dorothy Denny Scardino, a jazz pianist who rubbed elbows with the form's superstars but found her biggest following through a 25-year gig in a Manhattan bank lobby, died on March 9 at a hospice. She was 82 and had recently been told that she had cancer, her son Donald said. Drawn to
 ANDERSON--Valerie Joan, 39, of NYC, died March 8, 2004 of a brain tumor. Born in Needham, MA, Mount Holyoke College (86); Suffolk University Law School (95). Vice-president and senior counsel, Merrill Lynch; member of NY and MA Bars. Dancer with Beth Soll & Co.(8691); The Blue Hill Troupe, 
 BLUMENTHAL--Lenore Curtis Deutscher of Palm Harbor, FL, died March 15, after a long illness. Born in Brooklyn, NY, she worked for many years for the NYC Health Department, retiring as the Director of the Health Research Training Program. She is survived by two sons, Dr. Edward Deutscher (Na
 BRERETON -- Delores. Of Brooklyn, on March 25, after a brief illness. Retired registered nurse, professor of nursing, and philanthropist, Miss Brereton is survived by her brother, Orson Brereton, and sister-in-law, Gwyneth, four nieces, and seven greatnieces and nephews. As per her wishes, 
 ELLERTSON -- Charlotte, Ph.D. March 22, 2004, breast cancer. The Members, Counsel, associates, paralegals and staff of Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loewy deeply mourn the untimely passing of Dr. Charlotte Ellertson, wife of our colleague and Member, Paull Hejinian. Dr. Ellertson, although o
 FREEMAN--Eva. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of this distinguished 102 - year - old matriarch of the Jewish community. She was revered for her grace, charm, brilliance, and generosity. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her children: Jenny (and Kenneth) Michael,
 HOWARD--Jane. On March 26, 2004. Loving wife of Dennis. Devoted mother of Kimberly and Lance. Adoring Nani of Sydney, Sam and Sawyer. She brought joy and love to all who knew her. She will never be forgotten. Service Sunday, 10 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. HO
 LEVIN--Fanny. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a long-time friend and supporter of medical research and education programs at our institution. With her late husband, Milton, who was an esteemed member of our Board of Overs
 MALICK--Blossom Katz. Of Boynton Beach, FL died from injuries sustained in an automobile accident on March 15. Formerly of Woodmere, NY, she is survived by her wonderful husband Bill, beloved son and daughter-in-law Alan and Judy Katz, treasured grandsons Steven and Randy of Princeton Junct
 MELIKOVA -- Genia. Died March 5. Beloved teacher and friend, distinguished ballerina with the Marquis de Cuevas Company and London Festival Ballet; taught at Juilliard. She will be missed. Alice Helpern Audrey Ross       
 OSTERMANN--Berta E., on March 25, 2004, late of Wyckoff, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Hans Ostermann and patron, officer and leader of the Leiderkranz Society New York. Survived by her sister Emily Flohr, nephew William J. Flohr, Jr., niece Judith Carlisle and their families. Reposing at Fr
 PORITZKY--Audrey Miller, on March 25, 2004. Beloved wife of David, loving mother of Sophie Lena, devoted daughter of Anne and Laurence Miller, dear sister of Robert and his wife Amy. She will be deeply and sadly missed by her grandparents Beatrice and Joseph Miller, her nephews Jacob and Da
 PSYHOS -- Helen, 90, on March 22, 2004 in California. Helen and her husband Sarantos owned Windsor Florists in Manhattan until 1980 when they retired to Florida. Preceded in death by her husband and son Sarantos, Jr., she is survived by daughter Elenitsa Fields, granddaughter Marika Rice, s
 RANDOLPH--Muriel. All of the associates of Randolph Properties in Chappaqua & Katonah, NY, mourn the loss of our President and Founder, Muriel L. Randolph. Her leadership was marked by her strength, integrity, business acumen, humor and the ability to face the world 'head on'. ''Mickey'' wa
 RICHARDS--Helen (nee Gloster). Of Hackensack, NJ. 78, died peacefully in her sleep on March 26, 2004. Beloved wife to Vincent, devoted mother to David. She was predeceased by her brothers Amos and Charles. She was an editor for many years with New American Library, Putnam Publishing and Pea
 WILSON--June Parker, of New York City and Chilmark, MA, died on March 6 of Alzheimer's disease. She was 87 years old. Ms. Wilson translated 10 books from French to English, most in collaboration with Walter Benn Michaels, including the best-seller Papillon, by Henri Charriere. She was born 
 WOLFE--Hilda. 1910-2004. Our beloved mom died Saturday evening. She was wife of 65 years to Dr. Milton Wolfe. She was a lifelong inspiration to her three children, Allan, Robert and Wendy, and their spouses, Susan Wolfe, Jill Wolfe and Paul Goldberg, and loved by her surviving brother Phill
 BODMAN -- Rosamund. A Thanksgiving service for the life of Rosamund Reed Bodman, died December 15, 2003, will be held on March 29, 2004 at 4 PM at St James Church, 865 Madison Ave, NY. A reception with her family will follow. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to Star Learning Center
 Sofia Golovkina, a former ballerina with the Bolshoi Ballet who directed the Moscow Ballet School, the company's affiliated academy, with an iron grip for 40 years, died on Feb. 17 in Moscow. She was 88. Ms. Golovkina, whose death was reported by the Novosti press agency, was famili
 ABRAMSON--Lillian. 89, on March 27, 2004. Surrounded by her husband of 67 years, Dr. Abraham E. Abramson and her four children and their families. She is also survived by nine grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. A cultured woman of strong intellectual beliefs, she will be sorely mis
 BLUMENFIELD--Clara. Beloved mother of Michael & Linda. Adored grandmother of Jay, Bob, Sharon, Steven & Beth. Cherished in-law of Gus, Susan, Jaclyn & Eddie. Soulmate of her late husband Abner. Spirited and loyal, funny and truly loving. We'll miss her and think of her always.       
 CANTRELL--Nina M. (nee Majorino). Renowned stone sculptor, of Port Washington, NY, passed away on March 27th, 2004, after a courageous battle with cancer. Nina was a creative spirit who inspired everyone she touched. She was a visionary and pioneer in the use of colored, semiprecious stone 
 FITZGERALD--Mary ''May'' (nee Clancy). Died March 28, 2004. Mary was born April 16, 1908, County Clare, Ireland. Wife of the late Michael Fitzgerald of County Kerry, Ireland, deceased 1969. She is survived by three sons: James, Michael and Stephen and daughters-in-law Margaret and Janet; an
 GREENBERGER--Ruth. Wife of the late Sidney Greenberger, mother, grandmother, great - grandmother, died March 26, at her home surrounded by her children, Cynthia (Mike) Lieberbaum, Robert (Phyllis) Greenberger, John (Sherry) Greenberger Maccabee.       
 HOROWITZ--Bernice. 80, died March 26, 2004. Loving mother of Anne and Sara, adoring grandmother of Natalie and Rachel, big sister to Marvin. Dedicated teacher and educator, former head of academic studies at Townshend Harris High School. Longtime resident of Brooklyn Heights and East Hampto
 McKONE -- Elvira ''Polly'' Pope. 92, born on September 27, 1911, in Manlius, NY. Passed away on March 12, 2004, at her home in Somers, NY. Polly was the daughter of the late Colonel Allan M. Pope and Elvira D. Pope. Polly is survived by her stepdaughter Darby Downey of New York City, her ne
 OSTERMANN--Berta E., on March 25, 2004, late of Wyckoff, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Hans Ostermann and patron, officer and leader of the Leiderkranz Society New York. Survived by her sister Emily Flohr, nephew William J. Flohr, Jr., niece Judith Carlisle and their families. Reposing at Fr
 ANDERSON--Valerie Joan, 39, of NYC, died March 8, 2004 of a brain tumor. Born in Needham, MA, Mount Holyoke College (86); Suffolk University Law School (95). Vice-president and senior counsel, Merrill Lynch; member of NY and MA Bars. Dancer with Beth Soll & Co.(8691); The Blue Hill Troupe, 
 BANK--Ted Stephen. We extend our sincerest sympathy to Diane, Mathew, Chloe, Bernie, our dear friend Ellyn and her sons Mathew and Zac on the sudden loss of Teddy. May the power of the light send comfort to you all. Denise, Larry, Joselyn, Arden       
 LEVINE--Florence (Tananbaum) of Middletown, New York. Born on March 25, 1925 as the tenth child of the late Harry and Minnie Tananbaum. She died peacefully on March 28, 2004. Beloved wife of nearly 60 years of Jacques Levine; adored mother of Harold (Carol) of Goshen, New York; Alan of New 
 LEVITAN -- Judith Morley (nee Renee Greenfield). Born April 29, 1923, died at home March 28, 2004. Beloved wife for 56 years of David M. Levitan, mother of Barbara and Stuart, daughter of Ada Wolpert and Andrew Greenfield, sister of Daniel Morley and Janice Weiss, beloved friend, mentor and
 NEWHOUSE -- Alice Gross. On Sunday March 28, 2004 at 11:45 AM at Tourno Infirmary, New Orleans, LA. Wife of the late Norman N. Newhouse and by later marriage to the late Bob Cahlman. Mother of Robyn Newhouse of Suffield, CT, Mark W. Newhouse of New York, NY, Peter C. Newhouse of New Orleans
 O'HERRON--Shirley, of Darien, CT and Quissett, MA, age 74, died peacefully at the Richard Rosenthal Hospice Residence in Stamford on March 27, 2004 after a courageous battle with cancer. She had the good fortune of benefitting from 3 years of expert care provided by the physicians and staff
 OSTERMANN--Berta E. The Liederkranz Foundation and the Liederkranz of the City of New York records with profound sorrow the passing of a long-time friend and supporter of our Foundation and club. With her late husband Hans Ostermann, who also was, as was Berta, an esteemed member of our Boa
 WEISS--Lillian R. On March 28 at 101. Beloved aunt of Joan Poorvu and Claire H. Weisman. Also survived by many great nieces and nephews. Funeral service Tuesday, 10AM At Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. WEISS--Lillian R. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New
 Emily Morison Beck, the self-described literary archaeologist who edited three editions of Bartlett's Familiar Quotations, mining sources from sea chanteys to Shakespeare, died on Sunday at her home in Canton, Mass. She was 88. The cause was kidney failure, her son Gordon M. Beck sa
 ADLERBERG -- Ruby (nee Orange). On March 25, 2004, of cancer. She is survived by Herbert, her husband of 52 years. Also survived by her son Scott. A memorial is planned. Call Rose Orange at 718-220-0445 for details.       
 HORNBLOWER -- Marne Lloyd-Smith, 85, born in New York City, died in Washington, DC, on March 30, 2004. Survived by her husband, George Marshall Hornblower, of Washington, her daughters, Marjorie Johnson of Golden, Colorado, Virginia Lawrence of New York City, and Nancy Rice of Coronado, Cal
 LEVINE--Florence. To our dearest Florence, our family wil always cherish your memory and the wonderful days that we spent together. You were very special in our lives. Your strength and positive attitude in the face of adversity as well as your children's are a role model for us all. We wil
 LEVITAN -- Judith Morley (nee Renee Greenfield). Born April 29, 1923, died at home March 28, 2004. Beloved wife for 56 years of David M. Levitan, mother of Barbara and Stuart, daughter of Ada Wolpert and Andrew Greenfield, sister of Daniel Morley and Janice Weiss, beloved friend, mentor and
 McCAGG -- Elizabeth Stick ney, 95, at Essex, CT. Widow of W. Ogden McCagg. Survived by her daughter, Katharine H. Robinson of Stonington, CT, nine grandchildren and 11 5/9 great-grandchildren. Predeceased by children William O. McCagg Jr., Edith K. Anderson and Anna W. Green. Service Saturd
 NEWHOUSE -- Alice Gross. On Sunday March 28, 2004 at 11:45 AM at Tourno Infirmary, New Orleans, LA. Wife of the late Norman N. Newhouse and by later marriage to the late Bob Cahlman. Mother of Robyn Newhouse of Suffield, CT, Mark W. Newhouse of New York, NY, Peter C. Newhouse of New Orleans
 O'HERRON--Shirley, of Darien, CT and Quissett, MA, age 74, died peacefully at the Richard Rosenthal Hospice Residence in Stamford on March 27, 2004 after a courageous battle with cancer. She had the good fortune of benefitting from 3 years of expert care provided by the physicians and staff
