 BRANDMARK-Milton. Our condolences to Bernice on the loss of her husband and our wonderful friend, Milton, a warm caring human being. Pat and Leo Wurtzel       
 FRIED-Geraldine L. On December 29, in her 84th year. Beloved wife of the late Samuel M. Fried. Dear mother of Madeleine (Dr. Edward) Grossman and Dr. Richard (Dr. Jane) Fried. Adored grandmother of Dr. Jill (David) Denowitz, Lewis (Lisa) Grossman, Peter (Lisa) Grossman, Joanna, Adam, and Je
 GINSBURG-Mirra. On December 26th at 91 years. Born in Russia, she spent most of her life in Manhattan. A well known editor, author and translator (Russian and Yiddish) of children's folk tales including ''Chick and Duckling'', and ''Good Morning, Chick''. Her works for adults included ''Dia
 MAGIDSON-Karen Zissu. In Westport, CT, on December 29, 2000. Loving wife of Michael, devoted mother of Deborah and Steven Handler of Rye Brook, NY, Daniel Magidson and Stacey Magidson, both of New York City, sister of Barbara and Marvin Kushnick of Merrick, Long Island, Jeffrey and Linda Zi
 VAN RENSSELAER-Lillie. Age 88, died peacefully in her sleep December 30. For 55 years she lived in Locust Valley, LI, and Manhattan. She was the widow of Stephen, of the historical patroon family, beloved mother of Steve Jr. and aunt of Philip V. R. She will be greatly missed by her survivo
 Tanaquil Le Clercq, one of the greatest of American ballerinas, who was George Balanchine's ideal muse and Jerome Robbins's happiest inspiration at the New York City Ballet in the 1940's and 1950's, died yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 71 and had homes in Manhattan; Weston, Conn.; a
 BRANDMARK-Milton. Our condolences to Bernice on the loss of her husband and our wonderful friend, Milton, a warm caring human being. Pat and Leo Wurtzel       
 CARDOZO-Lucile L. On January 1, 2001 in her 85th year. Loving wife of the late Harmon. Beloved mother of Michael and Nancy, and the late Richard. Cherished grandmother of Sheryl, and Hedy and Michael. Dear sister of Constance Percy and Peggy Mann. Devoted sister-in-law, cousin, aunt and fri
 CHAMPION-Eleanor Stevens. Of Greenwich, CT. on December 30, 2000 at home surrounded by her family. Wife of the late George Champion, former Chairman of the Board of Chase Manhattan Bank. Survived by her son George Champion Jr, daughter Emily Champion Knobloch, 7 grandchildren and four great
 HART-Lynda. Of Manhattan, died on December 31, 2000. Beloved spouse of Stacey Foiles, sister of Kerry and Randy Hart. Author of Fatal Women and Between the Body and the Flesh, Hart was professor of English, University of Pennsylvania. Services Tuesday, 4-9, Wednesday 2-5 and 7-9 at Horne Da
 KLEPPER-Rose Fanny Cohen. ''...and in his infinite wisdom, kindness and love God created the most wonderful wife, mother, grandmother and great grandmother & named her Rose Fanny Cohen Klepper. ...and it was so. And God saw that it was good.'' Her husband Ely Klepper, her children Eleanor a
 Le CLERCQ-Tanaquil. She was, above all else, an artist of singular gifts-what Edwin Denby called a ''Heavenly Radiance.'' Peter Martins, the New York City Ballet, and the School of American Ballet, profoundly mourn her passing. Tanny was one of New York City Ballet's first great ballerinas,
 MCCREADY-Karen. Former Director, colleague and friend, we mourn her untimely death and extend our deepest sympathies to her husband Jean Yves Noblet. A memorial service in celebration of her wonderful spirit, Thursday, January 25, 3:00PM at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine. Pace 
 MEYERS-Beatrice Wilker. Died at home on Singer Island, Florida, January 1. She led a wonderful life, caring and giving and is remembered with love by her husband of 54 years Norman Meyers, their children Steven Meyers of Orange, CT., and Patricia Sullivan of Chicago, IL, their spouses Dorot
 VAN RENSSELAER-Lillie. Age 88, died peacefully in her sleep December 30. For 55 years she lived in Locust Valley, LI, and Manhattan. She was the widow of Stephen, of the historical patroon family, beloved mother of Steve Jr. and aunt of Philip V. R. She will be greatly missed by her survivo
 VENIT-Dora. We mourn the loss of our friend Dora Venit who died peacefully in her sleep in Boca Raton, Florida. Wife of the late Abraham Venit, mother of James and the late Freddy. We extend condolences to James and Isolde Venit and their children, Anne and Alexander of Brussels, Belgium. S
 WASSERMAN-Ethel (nee Carmel). On Monday, January 1. Beloved wife of the late Walter Wasserman. Loving mother of Samuel M. Wasserman of New York, NY. Mother-in-law of Sandra Wasserman. Devoted sister of the late Raymond Carmel and Selma Shapiro. Adored grandmother of Robert F., Cary R. and t
 BARRY-Sister Mary David. The College of Mount Saint Vincent community mourns the loss of our past president, alumna and longtime friend, Sr. Mary David Barry. President of the College from 1963 through 1973, Sr. Mary David was an extraordinary person, with true vision and creative ideas for
 CARDOZO-Lucile L. On January 1, 2001 in her 85th year. Loving wife of the late Harmon. Beloved mother of Michael and Nancy, and the late Richard. Cherished grandmother of Sheryl, and Hedy and Michael. Dear sister of Constance Percy and Peggy Mann. Devoted sister-in-law, cousin, aunt and fri
 CROWLEY-Catherine M. (nee Kammerer), 78, died peacefully on January 2, 2001 after a long illness endured with grace and dignity. Beloved wife of the late Thomas J. Crowley, Jr. Devoted mother of Patricia Ann Hyland, fond motherin-law of Michael, Courtney, Thomas and Christopher Hyland. Sist
 EARLY-Ruth. Passed away at Woodhull Hospital in Brooklyn, New York on December 25, 2000 after an extended illness. She is survived by her godson Jerry Thompkins and many friends and associates at Harlem Hospital where she worked for many years as a Registered Nurse.       
 GAYNES-Miriam. On January 1, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Seymour. Devoted mother of Paul and the late Steffi. Dear sister and sister-in-law of Joyce and Arnold, and the late Haskell. Adored grandmother of Seth and Taylor. Loving aunt of David, Karyn and Mark, Julie and Michael, and great
 GREENBERG - Ruth. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Laura (Lulu) Berlinger and her brother, Joey Greenberg, upon the loss of their mother. We extend profound condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan
 HOWE-Joan K. Died peacefully in her sleep early Friday morning, December 30, 2000, after a long and courageous fight with cancer. Born in Paris, France on July 26, 1927, she lived on Boca Grande, Florida and Rumford, Rhode Island. Joan is survived by her husband of forty-five years, William
 JAMES-Nora. Of Georgetown, Guyana who resided in Dunedin, FL. and Stamford, CT, formerly of Brooklyn, NY passed away on December 31, 2000. Nora is survived by her loving daughter Juanita James, grandson Dudley Williams III, son-in-law Dudley Williams Jr. two sisters Lucille and Norma, two b
 Le CLERCQ-Tanaquil. She was, above all else, an artist of singular gifts-what Edwin Denby called a ''Heavenly Radiance.'' Peter Martins, the New York City Ballet, and the School of American Ballet, profoundly mourn her passing. Tanny was one of New York City Ballet's first great ballerinas,
 McCREADY-Karen. We mourn the loss of Karen McCready, close friend and colleague. She will be deeply missed. Our heartfelt sympathy and condolences go to her husband Jean-Yves Noblet. The Staff of the Print Dept. The Museum of Modern Art       
 RUBIN-Helen. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member Helen Rubin, beloved wife of Harold Rubin, of blessed memory. Deepest sympathy to her son Michael, our dedicated member, and her daughter Bayla, and their families. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerr
 VAN RENSSELAER-Lillie. Age 88, died peacefully in her sleep December 30. For 55 years she lived in Locust Valley, LI, and Manhattan. She was the widow of Stephen, of the historical patroon family, beloved mother of Steve Jr. and aunt of Philip V. R. She will be greatly missed by her survivo
 WYMAN-Ann Pettus. June 22, 1925-December 30, 2000. Beloved wife of Frank H. Wyman, loving mother of Frederick Wyman II and Carole Wyman Kumar, daughter of the late Dr. Clyde E. McDannald of New York City and Warm Springs, Virginia and the late Evelyn Tunison McDannald, died after a short il
 ZARKIN-Cheryl Linda (nee Levine), 54, of New Rochelle, NY, died suddenly Monday, January 1. Beloved wife to Norman. Adored mother of Douglas and Seth. Devoted sister to Jacqueline Levine of Swampscott, MA, Alan Levine of Newton, MA., & Howard Levine of Stamford, CT. Services will be held Th
 CROWLEY-Catherine M. (nee Kammerer), 78, died peacefully on January 2, 2001 after a long illness endured with grace and dignity. Beloved wife of the late Thomas J. Crowley, Jr. Devoted mother of Patricia Ann Hyland, fond motherin-law of Michael S. Hyland. Adored grandmother of Catherine, Mi
 d'ARBELOFF-Sybil C. Of Cambridge, MA. Died Sunday in her home after a 16 month battle with cancer. She was 69. Mrs. d'Arbeloff was born in Waterbury, CT. in 1931. A wife, mother and artist, Mrs. d'Arbeloff dedicated much of her adult life to community service, including volunteer efforts on
 HARTLEY-Barbara N. At her Florida home on December 31, 2000. An accomplished artist, singer, and loving wife and mother, she is survived by her sister, Nancy Gerbino, of Granite Springs, NY, her husband, The Rev. Lyman R. Hartley, her daughters, Anne and Jessica Hartley, and three grandchil
 JACOBSON-Ethel. Devoted wife and homemaker, died January 3 in New York City. She is survived by three daughters Shelby Greene-Zarlin of New City, NY; Diane Mota of Trumbull, CT., and Marlee-Jo Jacobson of New York City, four grandchildren and two sisters. Graveside services will be Friday, 
 MANTELL-May. 86, died peacefully December 28, while she slept. A perpetual teacher and student, fascinated by the world around her, her infinite curiosity and zest would always have made it seem to soon. Wife of the late Seymour Mantell, survived by her son Alan Mantell married to Laura Lew
 NAUTS-Helen Coley. The Board of Trustees, Scientific Advisory Council and Staff of the Cancer Research Institute grievously mourn the loss of the Institute's dearly beloved Founder, Helen Coley Nauts, D.Sc. (Hon). Mrs. Nauts was an exceptional woman whose vision and lifetime of dedication t
 STAHL-Shirley M. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of Shirley M. Stahl, beloved wife of the late Earl (Buster) Stahl and devoted mother of Gina and Rabbi Robert Levine, Trudi and Neal Epstein, Eric and Elizabeth Stahl, Marcia and Joseph Rosen and her eleven grandchildren. May her 
 STAMPFLE-Felice died Sunday, December 31, 2000 in Kennett Square, PA. She was 88. Born in Kansas City, MO., and educated at Washington University and Radcliffe College, she was the Charles W. Engelhard Curator Emeritus of Drawings and Prints at the Pierpont Morgan Library in New York City a
 WASSERMAN-Ethel (nee Carmel). On Monday, January 1. Beloved wife of the late Walter Wasserman. Loving mother of Samuel M. Wasserman of New York, NY. Mother-in-law of Sandra Wasserman. Devoted sister of the late Raymond Carmel and Selma Shapiro. Adored grandmother of Robert F., Cary R. and t
 WINEAPPLE-Maxine B. Died peacefully in her sleep early Wednesday morning, January 3, 2001 after a long and courageous ordeal with Alzheimer's disease. Born in Boston, Massachusetts, she lived in Scarsdale, NY then Manhattan. and most recently in DelRay Beach, FL. Maxine is survived by her s
 ZARKIN-Cheryl Linda (nee Levine), 54, of New Rochelle, NY, died suddenly Monday, January 1. Beloved wife to Norman. Adored mother of Douglas and Seth. Devoted sister to Jacqueline Levine of Swampscott, MA, Alan Levine of Newton, MA., & Howard Levine of Stamford, CT. Services will be held Th
 Millicent Carey McIntosh, whose stewardship of the Brearley School and then Barnard College made her a national role model for generations of young women who wanted to combine career and family, died on Wednesday at her home in Tyringham, Mass. She was 102. An outspoken feminist in 
 ASSATOURIAN-Lora. The members of the Kleinberg Laboratory of NYU School of Medicine and NYVA Med Center are profoundly saddened by the unexpected death of their beloved office manager. A wonderful human being who cared about her workmates, patients and others. She was unfailingly polite & a
 BLOCH-Mildred. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Mildred Bloch. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President       
 BLUMENTHAL-Clara Michaels, 94, on January 4, 2001. Devoted wife of the late Herman Blumenthal. Beloved mother of Sherry Autor, Michael Blumenthal, and Carol Ochs. Loving grandmother of Elisabeth Ochs, Robert Autor, Miriam Ochs-Noe, David Autor, and Deborah Autor. Adoring great-grandmother o
 CALKINS-Sarah Anne, 42. On December 23, 2000 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York; from leukemia. Sarah grew up in Falls Church, VA, and was graduated from J.E.B. Stuart H.S. in 1976. She studied architectural history and was graduated with honors from Smith College in 1980
 CARDOZO-Lucile L. It is with great sorrow that we note the passing of Lucile L. Cardozo. To our esteemed board member, Michael H. Cardozo V, and to her family and friends, we extend our heartfelt condolences. Gomez Foundation for Mill House       
 DINTENFASS - Lorraine Aiken. Died peacefully on December 29th, 2000 while fighting lung cancer. She is survived by four children, Deborah of Whitewater, WI, Michael of Shorewood, WI, Linda of Ann Arbor, MI and Adam of Racine, WI, and four grandchildren.       
 DOWLING-Anne Chisholm. On January 3, 2001, died peacefully at age 92. Beloved wife of the late John J. Dowling. Loving mother of John, Peter, Roderick, Brian and Robert Dowling. Cherished grandmother of 11 grandchildren and one great-grandson. A longtime resident of Scarsdale, NY. She was a
 FEINBERG-Janet. On January 4th, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Howard. Devoted mother of Jane and Roy Karlin, Jill and Dan Kessler, and Judy and Chris McGhee. Loving sister of Harriet Lefkowitz, John and Jaye Roth. Adoring grandmother of Paula, Sam, David, Kathryn, Hannah and Julia. A woman
 HAMLETT - Francisca Under wood, on Christmas Eve she joined Barksdale Hamlett. She lived a fascinating life during ''interesting'' times. During WWII, Korea and the Cold War, she served her country. Services will be held Thursday, January 11, 1:30PM at West Point. Donations in her memory ma
 JARBLUM-Dora. Beloved wife of the late Richard. Darling mother of Myriam and Herbert Altman and William and Loraine Jarblum. Devoted grandmother of Michael and Lisa Altman, Daniel and Gabrielle Altman, Sarah and Yehuda Stark, Kimberly and Meredith Jarblum. Sister and sister-in-law of Joseph
 McINTOSH-Millicent Carey, on January 3rd, 2001. The Brearley School Community mourns the loss of our beloved former Head, who served from 1930 to 1947. The School will always cherish the memory of her warm spirit and devotion to students, shown once again when she returned to Brearley for a
 SULLER-Elsie. Long time director of Camp Kinderland, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan where she lived for 45 years. She was 86. Mrs. Suller spent the greater part of her adult life involved in childrens' camp and spoke passionately about the value of a progressive Jewish camp expe
 TAYLOR-Martha S. ''Lee'', 97 of St. Petersburg, FL died Wednesday, January 3 at Suncoast Manor Health Center. Born in Sheffield, IL She moved to St. Petersburg in 1997 from Delray Beach, FL. Was a resident of Southport, CT. for many years. Survivors include son Thomas W., daughter Martha Ha
 Felice Stampfle, curator of drawings and prints at the Morgan Library for nearly 40 years and editor of the scholarly journal Master Drawings, died on Sunday at her home in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 88. Miss Stampfle was born in Kansas City, Mo., in 1912 and received a B.A. and an
 ASSATOURIAN-Lora. The members of the Kleinberg Laboratory of NYU School of Medicine and NYVA Med Center are profoundly saddened by the unexpected death of their beloved office manager. A wonderful human being who cared about her workmates, patients and others. She was unfailingly polite & a
 BARRY-Sr. Mary Agnes David. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity and former President of the College of Mount St. Vincent, died Monday, January 1, 2001. Survived by her two nieces, Marie and Margaret; and by her nephew, David. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark Street, Y
 DOWLING-Anne Chisholm. On January 3, 2001, died peacefully at age 92. Beloved wife of the late John J. Dowling. Loving mother of John, Peter, Roderick, Brian and Robert Dowling. Cherished grandmother of 11 grandchildren and one great-grandson. A longtime resident of Scarsdale, NY. She was a
 HAMPTON-Renee Smith. 89, of Greenville, De, formerly of Manhasset, LI, NY, on January 2, 2001. Mrs. Hampton is survived by her husband, Willard G. Hampton, her daughter, Nancy Knowles; her sons, the Right Rev. Sanford, Frederick, and Lawrence; 14 grandchildren and 8 great grandchildren. A f
 McINTOSH - Millicent. Barnard College remembers with pride and gratitude the leadership and friendship of Millicent Carey McIntosh, who served as Dean and then President from 1947 to 1962. She urged generations of students to fulfill their dreams in their personal, professional and civic li
 STEIN-Charmion Kerr. The Officers, Board and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourns the passing of the beloved wife of our distinguished colleague and mentor, Dr. Herman Stein. She served with her husband in France after World War II in JDC's critical program
 Barbara DeWitt, a former rock star promoter who later helped create provocative advertising campaigns for Calvin Klein, died on Dec. 31 in Golden Beach, Fla. She was 58 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. DeWitt had cancer for the last year and a half, said her brother, the photographer Bru
 Frieda Pushnik, who used being born without limbs to achieve a remunerative career, not to mention a quirky celebrity, by appearing in Ripley's and Barnum's sideshows as the ''Armless and Legless Wonder,'' died of bladder cancer on Dec. 24 at her home in Costa Mesa, Calif. She was 77.      
 Kate Born Schaeffer, a longtime partner with her husband at Schaeffer Galleries in Manhattan, which became known for selling art by old masters to museums and collectors, died on Dec. 20 at her home in Manhattan. She was 102. For three decades Mrs. Schaeffer and her husband, Dr. Han
 BARRY-Sr. Mary Agnes David. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity and former President of the College of Mount St. Vincent, died Monday, January 1, 2001. Survived by her two nieces, Marie and Margaret; and by her nephew, David. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark Street, Y
 BERGIDA-Lillian in her 90 year. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Phyllis (Fredric) Lassman and Hedy (the late Lionel) White. Dear sister of Barnet and Edward Deutch. Adored grandmother of Alan and David (Lorraine) Lassman and Vanessa White. Private family services.       
 BREED-Helen Illick. On January 4. She was the daughter of Joseph Simon Illick and Della May Brotzman. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Henry E. Breed II, three children Henry E. Breed, III , Joseph I. Breed and Brenda B. Shapiro, a brother Ira E. Illick, and a sister Anna May Langlois. F
 BURSTEIN-Judge Beatrice S. Born on May 18, 1915, died in the early hours of January 6, 2001, of natural causes after a long life of distinction and grace. Widow of the accomplished attorney Herbert Burstein, she was greatly loved and is deeply grieved by her daughters and sons, Karen, Ellen
 CORSON-Harriette. On January 5, 2001, of Pompano Beach, FL. Formerly of Great Neck, NY, and New York City. Beloved wife of the late Nat Corson. Loving mother of the late Robert Corson and of Lee Corson. Mother-in-law of Jill. Grandmother of Wendy, David, Michael and Nancy. Greatgrandmother 
 DAVID-Judith F., on January 5th, 2001. Beloved wife of Marvin. Loving mother of Donald, Marcia, Henry and Sandra. Dear sister of Evelyn Berger and Anita Gross. Adoring grandmother of Matthew, Alyssa, Jessica, John, Cecily, Rachel, Alexandra, Marc and Max. She will be deeply missed. Service 
 HAMMOND-Constance J. Age 80, Branford, CT, died January 3. Wife of Harry S. Hammond Jr. Also surviving are four daughters, two sisters and four grandchildren. Services Saturday, February 3, Trinity Episcopal Church, Branford, CT, at 11 AM. HAMMOND-Constance Johnston. Women's Bible S
 HARRIS-Marjorie F. Age 79 of East Quogue, NY and Sarasota, FL died January 2, 2001. She was born on August 15, 1921 in The Bronx. She was a homemaker and educator, attended Hunter College and was a member of the United Federation of Teachers. She was a Catholic. Survivors include her husban
 HOFFMAN-Lillian. On January 5, 2001, at age of 93. Beloved wife of the late Irving Hoffman. Devoted mother of Donna (Hoffman) Bilgrei and Michael Bilgrei and Ellen (Hoffman) Lieberman and Robert Lieberman. Loving sister of Adeline Bodner and adoring grandmother to Jeremy, Allyson, Rachel an
 LERNER-Marilyn Rothman. On December 31. A very special lady, Marilyn endowed family and friends with unconditional love, sensitivity, determination and gusto. Her spirit lives on in Joe and Jesse, adored husband and treasured son and her ''kids'' at PS 321. Daughter of the late Rae Sandomir
 MANTELL-May. 86, died peacefully December 28, while she slept. A perpetual teacher and student, fascinated by the world around her, her infinite curiosity and zest would always have made it seem too soon. Wife of the late Seymour Mantell, survived by her son Alan Mantell married to Laura Le
 McINTOSH-Millicent Carey, on January 3, 2001. The trustees, administration, faculty, and staff of Bank Street College of Education note with sorrow the passing of Millicent C. McIntosh, a Life Trustee of the College. Mrs. McIntosh served as a Statutory Trustee on the Bank Street Board of Tr
 OXENBERG-Etta. Died peacefully on January 1, her 103rd birthday. Mother to Elliott and Muriel. Grandma to Julia and Ruth. Great grandma to Clea, Ted, Charlie and Tristan. Also survived by Cynthia and Rob. Her optimism, wisdom and humor inspired us all.       
 SAMUELS-Judith. The Men's Club of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses deep sorrow at the untimely death of our administrative assistant, Judy Samuels. She will be missed but never forgotten. Martin A. Danoff, President SAMUELS-Judith Gail, died January 3, 2001, a
 SCHWARTZ-Rhoda Kulick (nee Slater). Died peacefully, this past Thursday night in Fort Myers, FL. A respected artist and amateur actress, Mrs. Schwartz was born in NYC in 1914 and, during her life, resided in NYC, Ossening, NY, and Southbury, CT, before moving to Florida six years ago. After
 SCHWARZ-Meta Cecile. Passed away on January 2, 2001 at the age of 97. She was the devoted wife of her late husband Francois L. Schwarz and is survived by her nephew, Herbert Orth, her cousin, Henrietta Cavallo, a host of friends and admirers and the many people who have been the recipients 
 WYMAN-Ann Pettus. June 22, 1925-December 30, 2000. Beloved wife of Frank H. Wyman, loving mother of Frederick Wyman II and Carole Wyman Kumar, daughter of the late Dr. Clyde E. McDannald of New York City and Warm Springs, Virginia and the late Evelyn Tunison McDannald, died after a short il
 CALKINS-Sarah Anne, 42. On December 23, 2000 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York; from leukemia. Sarah grew up in Falls Church, VA, and was graduated from J.E.B. Stuart H.S. in 1976. She studied architectural history and was graduated with honors from Smith College in 1980
 EHRENKRANZ-Hilda. On January 6, 2001. Beloved wife of the late George Ehrenkranz. Devoted mother of Joel and Sanford, mother-in-law of Anne and Lisa; loving sister of Samuel Schreiber; adoring grandmother of Alissa, John, Jeanne, Jane and Steven; greatgrandmother of Isabel and Anne; caring 
 FAGEN-Marcia. Age 80, died peacefully in her sleep on January 7; of Tamarac, FL, formerly of Somers, NY, and Eastchester, NY. Beloved wife of Tedd for 55 years. Adoring mother of Nancy and Laurette, loving mother-in-law of Roger and Edward. Cherished grandmother of Brooke and Randy, Julie a
 GITTESS-Carol Mae Block. 61, died on January 6 after a valiant two year battle with pancreatic cancer. Beloved wife of Ronald, loving mother of Leslie (Peter Brodsky) and Robert (Laurie), adoring grandmother of Adam and Jennifer, devoted sister of Laurence and Kenneth. Mrs. Gittess was rais
 KATZ-Esther. Beloved mother of Audrey and Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, adoring grandmother of Mindy and Dr. Jay Cinnamon, Debbie and Dr. Shelly Senders, Shira and Dr. Larry Baruch, and Rabbi Joshua Lookstein, proud great-grandmother of Michael, Rebecca, Tammie, Marissa, David, Susie, Amanda, Eri
 SCHWARZ-Meta Cecile. Passed away on January 2, 2001 at the age of 97. She was the devoted wife of her late husband Francois L. Schwarz and is survived by her nephew, Herbert Orth, her cousin, Henrietta Cavallo, a host of friends and admirers and the many people who have been the recipients 
 Helen Coley Nauts, who devoted her life to championing the once-neglected cancer-treatment discoveries of her father and founded a cancer institute, died at home last Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 93. Mrs. Nauts was the daughter of Dr. William B. Coley, a surgeon and cancer speciali
 BEHR-Florence. The members of the Brooklyn Museum of Art Community Committee are deeply saddened by the death of its member and past president, Florence Behr. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Edith Gothelf, President Community Committee       
 BURSTEIN - Judge Beatrice. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY, mourns her loss and extends deepest sympathy to the bereaved family. Allen Kaplan, Rabbi Alan Hartstein, President       
 DAY-Marsha, 52. On January 7, 2001 of brain cancer. A social worker, Marsha was a national leader for runaway and homeless youth, gay youth and an activist for HIV/AIDS and women's rights. Marsha is survived by her partner, Gillian Francis, mother & brother. Funeral is in Abilene, Texas on 
 FORELAND-Sister Aasta. Age 97, on January 7, 2001 at Norwegian Christian Home. Born at Foreland, Haegeland, Norway, April 21, 1903, the daughter of Jens and Anne (Kristensen) Foreland. After immigrating to the United States, she became a naturalized citizen in 1936. A consecrated Deaconess 
 HABER-Jane M. Supervisor of the Blood Bank at the New York Hospital for forty-four years, she died December 30, 2000 in Boca Raton, FL. She was 84 years old. She received both her Bachelor's and Master's Degrees from the University of Michigan. In 1979 she received the Ivor Dunsford Memoria
 KATZ-Esther. AMIT is deeply saddened by the loss of the beloved mother of our most dedicated Senior Vice President, Audrey Lookstein, and cherished motherin-law of our dear friend and supporter, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein. Esther Katz was a true ''woman of valor'' whose life exemplified Torah v
 KORNBERG-Frieda. On January 7th, 2001 in her 90th year. Devoted wife of the late Henry Kornberg. She is survived by her three children, Jacques Kornberg, Cecile Sheramy and Stephen Kornberg, seven grandchildren and six greatgrandchildren. Beloved by her family, she will be dearly missed. Me
 McHENRY-Laurette. On January 5, 2001. Beloved wife of the late William. Survived by her sister, Norma Best, and other family. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Friday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass at St. Francis DeSales Church, 135 East 96 Street, Sat
 NOVER-Mildred Mazur. Following an illness, on January 6, 2001. She is survived by her very loving husband, Ace Nover & her loving daughters, Barbara Klein of Corte Madera, CA., and Louise SarahLeah Seltzer of Jerusalem, Israel, and her loving grandson, Nachman Seltzer, also of Jerusalem. Pr
 RICE-Argyll Pryor Rice. Scholar of Spanish literature and a former nationally ranked tennis player, died at her home on December 3, 2000. She was the daughter of the late Theodorick P. and Argyll Campbell Ric. Professor Ricewas the author of a book on the Cuban poet Emilio Ballagas and nume
 SCHUMACHER-Eula Wiklund, 93. Formerly of Manhasset, Long Island New York died January 7, 2001 in Concord, N.H. She was the former wife of the late Fredrick Schumacher.       
 Beatrice S. Burstein, who was one of the first women to serve as a justice of the State Supreme Court and who used her position to promote social activism, died on Saturday at her home in Lawrence, on Long Island. She was 85. In a judicial career that spanned 30 years, Justice Burst
 ADLER-Dr. Alexandra. Died on January 4, 2001 at age 99. She was a brilliant researcher, neurologist & psychiatrist, and the daughter of Alfred Adler, one of the founders of modern psychiatry. She was one of the first women neurologists at Harvard Medical School. Beloved aunt of Margot Adler
 BERLIN-Bess. Beloved wife of the late Roy, devoted mother of Robert and Mark, cherished grandmother of Daniel, Michael, Robert, Joanna, Brian, and Steven. Services Wednesday, 11:30 AM,at The Reconstructionist Synagogue, 1001 Plandome Road, Manhasset. BERLIN-Bess. The Reconstructionist Synag
 DUSENBERY-Elsbeth B. Of Montclair, NJ, on December 24, 2000. Beloved wife of 59 years of John F. Dusenbery , sister of Janet B. Hodgman, formerly of Glen Ridge, NJ, also survived by several nieces, nephews, grandnieces & grandnephews. Daughter of the late Clement S. Brainin and the late Hel
 HARVEY-Sister Edmund, RSHM. The trustees, faculty, staff, students and alumnae of Marymount Manhattan College mourn the loss of our beloved and committed trustee Sr. Edmund Harvey. Sister Edmund was not only an active trustee of the College since 1987 and current chairperson of the Student 
 KOMMEL-Dorothy (nee Divorin). Died without suffering at age 87 on January 8th, 2001. Devoted to her family and her many friends, admired by all who knew her. She survived with strength the passing of her much loved husband, Sanford Kommel, and her siblings, Helen, Jack, and Cirelle. She liv
 LARSON-Alice. The Board of Directors, Administration and entire staff of Isabella Geriatric Center mourn the passing of Alice Larson, wife of Lawrence E. Larson, former President and Chief Executive Officer and currently emeritus Chair of of our Board. We recollect, with love and gratitude,
 LUCKE-Bertha. Beloved mother of Eleanor Simpson and Trudy Rose. Devoted grandmother and great grandmother. Died January 6, 2001 in her 102nd year. Family graveside services were held on Tuesday, January 8th. Donations in her memory may be made to the Senior Citizens of Westbury, 360 Post Av
 McHENRY-Laurette. On January 5, 2001. Beloved wife of the late William. Survived by her sister, Norma Best, and other family. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Friday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass at St. Francis DeSales Church, 135 East 96 Street, Sat
 McINTOSH - Millicent. Amateur Chamber Music Players extends condolences to our Board President, Susan McIntosh Lloyd, and the entire McIntosh family on the passing of Millicent McIntosh, who was an important force in the development of the organization. Her gracious hospitality to ACMP will
 del TORO-Mary Ellin (nee Keet). Died Monday, January 8 at her daughter Diane Garlock's home, Leavenworth, KS. Widow of Walter H. del Toro. She had homes in Winchester, TN and Upper Saranac Lake, NY. Born in Jamaica Estates, NY in 1927. Attended the Mary Louise Academy and married 1947. Live
 FERRARA-Josephine (Sunnie) Castelluccio, born on the 22nd of August in 1918, in Akron, Ohio. At the age of seven she was sent from relative to relative between Ohio and New York due to the death of her mother. In New York she learned the attributes that took her through life, her independen
 GAYNOR-Geraldyne. Of Palm Beach, FL, on January 9, 2001 in her 80th year. Beloved wife of James. Cherished mother of Karen & Elliot Hershberg and Robert & Betty Ann Gaynor. Adored grandmother of Lisa & James, Julie & Jeffrey, Jill and Lynne and loving great grandmother of Samantha and Benja
 KOMMEL-Dorothy (nee Divorin). Died without suffering at age 87 on January 8th, 2001. Devoted to her family and her many friends, admired by all who knew her. She survived with strength the passing of her much loved husband, Sanford Kommel, and her siblings, Helen, Jack, and Cirelle. She liv
 LASSIN-Ray. Died January 6, 2001. We mourn the loss of Ray Lassin, beloved wife of deceased husband Irving Lassin. Beloved mother of Marsha, Byron and June. Beloved mother-in-law of Michael, beloved grandmother of Patricia, Daniel and David. Beloved sister of Charlotte, Beatrice and Esther.
 LEHMAN-Evelyn J. The Board and staff of the Girl Scout Council of Greater New York express their profound sadness at the loss of long-time Board member and colleague, Evelyn J. Lehman. Evelyn was a strong and tireless advocate for the girls of New York City and worked vigorously on their be
 McHENRY-Laurette. On January 5, 2001. Beloved wife of the late William. Survived by her sister, Norma Best, and other family. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Friday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mass at St. Francis DeSales Church, 135 East 96 Street, Sat
 ROSENFIELD-Audrey Priest, on January 9, 2001. Beloved, loving and cherished wife of 53 years to Herbert Rosenfield. Dedicated and beloved mother of Dr. Patricia L. Rosenfield of NYC, Thomas Priest Rosenfield of Switzerland, and dearest friend and mentor to Nelson An-Ping Chang of Taiwan, an
 ROSENWALD-Elsa (nee Jacob). Age 90. Died January 6, 2001 at home in Rye, N.Y. Wife of the late Joseph S. Rosenwald and beloved mother of Ellen Gardiner and Peter Rosenwald, she is survived by her two children and five grandchildren. A dedicated mother and grandmother, she lived at the Osbor
 SALESKY-David. The Women's Committee of the Central Park Conservancy extend their sincere condolences to Susan Rudin on the loss of her beloved father. Our thoughts and prayers are with Susan and her family as she mourns his passing and celebrates his long, happy life. May her memories of h
 Dr. Alexandra Adler, a New York neurologist and psychiatrist who carried on the tradition of her father, Alfred Adler, one of the pioneers of psychoanalytic theory, died Jan. 4 at New York University Hospital. She was 99 and lived in Manhattan. A native of Vienna, she was among the 
 EDIFF-Sonia. On January 9, 2001. Beloved sister of Joan Adams, loving aunt of Laurel, Russell and David. A good and giving friend, and outstanding public relations professional. We will miss the contagious verve and sense of life she projected. Services will be held Sunday, January 14th, 2:
 FUNDORA-Aida. Born July 4, 1919 in Cuba, died January 11, 2001 in Florida. Beloved mother of my wife Luly Duke of East Hampton, NY. Aida's loving family and friends join me in prayer for her eternal peace. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions to Fundacion Amistad, P.O. Box 177, East H
 GAYNOR-Geraldyne. Of Palm Beach, FL, on January 9, 2001 in her 80th year. Beloved wife of James. Cherished mother of Karen & Elliot Hershberg and Robert & Betty Ann Gaynor. Adored grandmother of Lisa & James, Julie & Jeffrey, Jill and Lynne and loving great grandmother of Samantha and Benja
 GREENSTEIN-Esta M. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother, sister and friend. Lover of Israel, passed away on January 9th, 2001. Shiva is being observed at the Greenstein residence, 540 North Eleven Street, New Hyde Park, NY 11040 thru Tuesday morning. Contributions in her memo
 KAPLAN-Sylvia H. Age 81. Died January 8, 2001. Loved and loving mother of Judy (Martin) Milner and Howard (Sharon Strauss) Kaplan. Grandmother of Eric and Jeffrey Milner and Jeremy Kaplan. Successful author and forever fishing buddy to Syd. We will miss her.       
 KLEIN-Beverly. The Merrick Jewish Centre Congregation Ohr Torah mourns the passing of our beloved member and extends heartfelt condolences to her entire family. We pray the family will be consoled with all the mourners of our people. Barry M. Lasky, President Rabbi Charles A. Klein       
 LONG-Evelyn Lehman. The Board of Trustees, the Board of Directors and the staff of the YWCA of the City of New York are deeply saddened at the loss of their longtime colleague and friend. As board member, President from 1982 to 1986, and Trustee in the years since, Evelyn was a gifted leade
 OSTEN-Margaret E. (Ostreicher). 87, born in Munkach, Czechoslovakia, loving niece of Dr. Emil Klima, deceased, died after a long illness. Beloved relative and friend. A modest women of charity, compassion and sensitivity. She was a teacher, civil engineer and librarian, associated with Libr
 ROSENFIELD-Audrey Priest, on January 9, 2001. Beloved, loving and cherished wife of 53 years to Herbert Rosenfield. Dedicated and beloved mother of Dr. Patricia L. Rosenfield of NYC, Thomas Priest Rosenfield of Switzerland, and dearest friend and mentor to Nelson An-Ping Chang of Taiwan, an
 G. E. M. Anscombe, a British moral and analytic philosopher as well as one of Wittgenstein's literary executors, died on Jan. 5 in Cambridge, England. She was 81 and had chronic heart disease, said her husband, Peter Geach. Gertrude Elizabeth Margaret Anscombe -- known by her initia
 CAHN-Nettie. Of New York City and Palm Beach, Florida. Formerly of Great Neck, NY on January 9, 2001. Treasured wife of the late Ernest Cahn. Adored mother of Carol Weltz and Mitchel and Lesley Cahn. Loving grandmother of Catherine Weltz, Heather Solomon and Blaire Cahn. Beloved sister of S
 EDIFF-Sonia. On January 9, 2001. Beloved sister of Joan Adams, loving aunt of Laurel, Russell and David. A good and giving friend, and outstanding public relations professional. We will miss the contagious verve and sense of life she projected. Services will be held Sunday, January 14th, 2:
 FRIEDMANN - Trudy. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of our esteemed member, Trudy Friedmann and extends their sincerest sympathy to her beloved family. Mal Levenson, President       
 HIRSCH-Lore S. (Sunderman). 86, of Riverdale, N.Y. She leaves two sons Ronald and Norman Hirsch. Funeral Sunday 12pm at Riverdale Temple, Independence Ave. Burial in Cedar Park Cemetery, N.J.       
 JARCHO-Lillian, September 4, 1909-January 12, 2001. Born to immigrant parents and largely selfeducated, she spent 91 years nourishing her mind. Voracious reader, lover of music, ballet and opera. Gardener, historian, traveler and compulsive reader of the New York Times. For 30 years a fight
 McMANUS-Helen Conroy. Died January 12, 2001 at her home in Rye, NY. She was born in Brooklyn on October 15, 1927. Beloved mother of Alfred E. Smith IV, Kathleen Smith Murray, Christopher C. Smith, Susan Smith Joyce, Timothy F. Smith, Helen M. Smith and Ann Smith Konopka and 3 stepchildren, 
 MILLS-Nina. Born December 2, 1950, died December 28, 2000 in Berkeley, CA. After a long and courageous fight with cancer, she left us too early. Writing, playing music, reading, hiking, traveling, sharing-a life filled with many passions ended too soon. Lovingly and fondly remembering the g
 RICHTER-Muriel. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of our esteemed member, Muriel Richter and extends their sincerest sympathy to her beloved family. Mal Levenson, President       
 Linda Eder Jamieson Storrow, a former actress, magazine executive and official New York City greeter for the State of New York who was  host for 13 years of a radio program  celebrating those she called ''splendid seniors,'' died at her Manhattan apartment on Jan. 6. She was 90. The
 ADLER-Dr. Alexandra. Died on January 4, 2001 at age 99. She was a brilliant researcher, neurologist & psychiatrist, and the daughter of Alfred Adler, one of the founders of modern psychiatry. She was one of the first women neurologists at Harvard Medical School. Beloved aunt of Margot Adler
 BULGER-Rachel Forsen, of Mamaroneck, NY. Died January 6, 2001 of Cancer. She was 38. She is survived by her husband James C. Bulger, her parents George and Esther Forsen of Potomac, MD and her brother Richard Forsen of Herndon, VA. A memorial service will be held at Saint Elizabeth Church, 
 CAHN-Nettie. Of New York City and Palm Beach, Florida. Formerly of Great Neck, NY on January 9, 2001. Treasured wife of the late Ernest Cahn. Adored mother of Carol Weltz and Mitchel and Lesley Cahn. Loving grandmother of Catherine Weltz, Heather Solomon and Blaire Cahn. Beloved sister of S
 DANTZKER-Mary L. Born October 18, 1911 in Los Banos, Ca., she died January 10, 2001 in Walnut Creek, Ca. at age 89 after a long illness. She will be remembered lovingly by her husband Morris (Dan), her three children Steven, Bruce and Lynn and her five grandchildren Anna, Alicia, Sarah, Nic
 DIAMOND-Doe. January 12, 2001. Age 92. She is survived by husband Daniel; sons Richard and Peter. Daughters-in-law Alyce and Kate. Grandchildren Roberta, Debbie, Matt and Andy. Grand son-in-law Jeff and great-grandchildren Michael, Zachary and Margot. Service Monday, 9:30 AM, Boulevard-Rive
 FORMAN-Blanche. On January 12, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of Jeffrey and Jean Forman, Ellen and Donald Feldman, Rosanne and Sam Spear. Dear sister of Anna Portman and Edna Thompson. Loving grandmother of Alexis Forman, Victor Forman, Douglas Feldman and Matthew F
 HIRSCH-Frances. On January 13, 2001 in her 90th year. Husband Henry; daughter Judith; sons David and Jonathan; grandchildren Jennifer and Jeffrey. Together with her brother Jerome; sister Rosalie; sisters-in-law, brothers-inlaw; nieces and nephews and their children all mourn her passing. W
 JARCHO-Lillian, September 4, 1909-January 12, 2001. Born to immigrant parents and largely selfeducated, she spent 91 years nourishing her mind. Voracious reader, lover of music, ballet and opera. Gardener, historian, traveler and compulsive reader of the New York Times. For 30 years a fight
 KOMMEL-Dorothy (nee Dvorin). Died without suffering, at age 87 on January 8, 2001. Devoted to her family and her many friends, admired by all who knew her. She survived with strength the passing of her much loved husband Sanford and her siblings Helen, Jack and Cirelle. She lived to take en
 LEFFLER-Anne. On January 12th, 2001 in her 92nd year. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Loving mother of Stanley and Dorothy, Ronald and Irene, Roberta and Leonard Poznick. Cherished grandmother of Peter, Elissa, Scott, Tammy, Pamela and Karen. Loved great-grandmother of seven. Service Sunda
 LONG-Evelyn Lehman, January 8, 2001. Beloved daughter of Mildred Pierce Lehman. Beloved wife of the late Walter Scott Long, Jr. Loving mother of Arthur Scott Long. Cherished grandmother of Arthur Conrad Lehman Long. She was a member of the law firm of Kelley, Drye and Warren. Contributions 
 McMANUS-Helen Conroy. Died January 12, 2001 at her home in Rye, NY. She was born in Brooklyn on October 15, 1927. Beloved mother of Alfred E. Smith IV, Kathleen Smith Murray, Christopher C. Smith, Susan Smith Joyce, Timothy F. Smith, Helen M. Smith and Ann Smith Konopka and 3 stepchildren, 
 POST-Hariet Bottomley. Died peacefully on January 12, 2001, at Wake Robin in Shelburne, VT. The family mourns her loss and will hold services at Trinity Episcopal Church in Shelburne at 11 AM on Monday, January 15. A memorial service will be held at St. John's Church in Cold Spring Harbor, 
 ROSEN-Goldy Meresman. Goldy died peacefully in her sleep on January 8, 2001 in her home at Hilton Head Island, SC after a long battle with cancer. She did not give an inch to the disease and was active to the end. The funeral was held in Hilton Head on January 9. She was a superb wife, best
 ROSENFIELD-Audrey Priest, on January 9, 2001. Beloved, loving and cherished wife of 53 years to Herbert Rosenfield. Dedicated and beloved mother of Dr. Patricia L. Rosenfield of NYC, Thomas Priest Rosenfield of Switzerland, and dearest friend and mentor to Nelson An-Ping Chang of Taiwan, an
 ROSENTHAL-Blanche. On January 13, 2001. Devoted wife of the late Arthur. Beloved mother of Renee Landau and Pat (Chic) Schissel. Loving grandmother of Peter, Emily, Eric and Anna. Great grandmother of Eva, Adam and Simon. A grateful and appreciative friend to her caregivers Toyin and Sheila
 ROSENWALD-Elsa (nee Jacob). Age 90. Died January 6, 2001 at home in Rye, N.Y. Wife of the late Joseph S. Rosenwald and beloved mother of Ellen Gardiner and Peter Rosenwald, she is survived by her two children and five grandchildren. A dedicated mother and grandmother, she lived at the Osbor
 SALERNO-Harriet Parker. Widow of Joseph, beloved mother of Peter (Amy Rothstein) of Brooklyn, NY. Cherished aunt and great-aunt of many. Suddenly at her home in Weston, CT at the age of 89 on January 12, 2001. Memorial service to be held at a later date.       
 SALESKY-David. The Board of Directors and Staff of Women In Need express deep regret on the passing of David Salesky. David was the beloved father of WIN's cherished and long-time Board member Susan Rudin. We extend our sincerest thoughts and prayers to her and her family at this difficult 
 SHAPIRO-Bernard L. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to trustee and benefactor, Dr. Ellen Shapiro Lepor on the loss of her beloved father. Sympathies to the entire bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 TORTORELLA-Carmela B. (Camille), on January 11th, 2001. Devoted wife of the late Salvatore. Cherished mother of Michael. Adored mother-in-law of Andrea. Fond grandmother of the late Matthew Tortorella. Camille graduated from New York University in 1940 and held a Master's Degree in Educatio
 WHITCUP-Sally. On January 10, 2000 at age 96. Beloved wife of the late Leonard Whitcup. Beloved aunt of Daniel Gold, Harriet Maizels and Paul Shaman. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St, Tuesday, January 16, 1:30 PM. Interment, Temple Israel Cemetery, Hastings-on-Hudso
 BOOTH-Isabelle Bregstein. Age 100. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Booth. Survived by her loving daughters Betty Smith and Fifi Booth, her son-in-law Malcolm Smith, her grandsons Eric and Dan Smith, three great-granchildren, and her devoted brother Herbert Bregstein.       
 CALKINS-Sarah Anne, 42. On December 23, 2000 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York; from leukemia. Sarah grew up in Falls Church, VA, and was graduated from J.E.B. Stuart H.S. in 1976. She studied architectural history and was graduated with honors from Smith College in 1980
 DOESCHER-Anne Lewis. On January 11, of complications from pneumonia, at age 45. Survived by mother and step-father Patricia and William McElroy, father Gregory, brother Eric, and many loving aunts, uncles and cousins. She will be fondly remembered and deeply missed by all.       
 HIRSCH-Frances. On January 13, 2001, in her 90th year. Husband Henry; daughter Judith; sons David and Jonathan; grandchildren Jennifer and Jeffrey. Together with her brother Jerome; sister Rosalie; sisters-in-law, brothers-inlaw; nieces and nephews and their children all mourn her passing. 
 JARCHO-Lillian, September 4, 1909-January 12, 2001. Born to immigrant parents and largely selfeducated, she spent 91 years nourishing her mind. Voracious reader, lover of music, ballet and opera. Gardener, historian, traveler and compulsive reader of the New York Times. For 30 years a fight
 ROSENTHAL-Blanche. On January 13, 2001. Devoted wife of the late Arthur. Beloved mother of Renee Landau and Pat (Chic) Schissel. Loving grandmother of Peter, Emily, Eric and Anna. Great-grandmother of Eva, Adam and Simon. A grateful and appreciative friend to her caregivers Toyin and Sheila
 SALERNO-Harriet Parker. Widow of Joseph, beloved mother of Peter (Amy Rothstein) of Brooklyn, NY. Cherished aunt and great-aunt of many. Suddenly at her home in Weston, CT at the age of 89 on January 12, 2001. Memorial service to be held at a later date.       
 ADAMS-Virginia. On January 14, of cancer, at age 78 in Manhattan. A native of Worcester, Mass. and a 1944 graduate of Smith College, Virginia became a journalist. She worked for Time, Inc., the New York Times, Psychology Today magazine and academic publications. She will remembered by cowor
 ENO-M. Kathryn. Died peacefully January 15 after suffering a stroke a year ago. Born in Superior, Wi., Kathryn was a beloved aunt to James Kerr of Ca., William and Thomas Kerr of Wi., and their families. Kathryn moved to Washington, D.C. where she worked during World War II for the State De
 KOBRIN-Ruth A., 87. Of Deerfield Beach, Florida, died January 15, 2001. Widow of the late Abe, she is survived by sons Stephen & David, sisters, Sonia and Judy, 5 grandchildren & 4 great grandchildren. Graveside services on Thursday at 2 PM at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, Ridgewood, N.Y. Donations
 MILLER-Joan Heller. Daughter of Ascher and Rosalie Heller, died January 13, 2001. An NYU graduate, she served as President of New Jersey's LWV. Survivors include two sons, their families, aunt, cousins, nieces, nephews, brother, Charles Heller of Bayonne, sister, Betty Heller Rosania (Edwar
 MILLMAN-Beverly Bard. Beloved wife and mother, died January 12 at 82. She was preceded in death by her husband of 56 years, Dr. Louis Millman. She is survived by her 3 children; Jonathan Millman of Mobile, AL; Paul Millman of Palo Alto, CA., and Amy Faxon of NYC; 2 sisters Audrey Wallach of
 ROSENTHAL-Blanche. On January 13, 2001. Devoted wife of the late Arthur. Beloved mother of Renee Landau and Pat (Chic) Schissel. Loving grandmother of Peter, Emily, Eric and Anna. Great-grandmother of Eva, Adam and Simon. A grateful and appreciative friend to her caregivers Toyin and Sheila
 SALERNO-Harriet Parker. Widow of Joseph, beloved mother of Peter (Amy Rothstein) of Brooklyn, NY. Cherished aunt and great-aunt of many. Suddenly at her home in Weston, CT at the age of 89 on January 12, 2001. Memorial service to be held at a later date.       
 TOBIAS-Beatrice E. On Sunday January 14, 2001, Beatrice Tobias of Silver Spring, Maryland, and New York City. Beloved wife of the late J. Melville Tobias; devoted mother of Edward (Laura) Tobias, of Derwood, Maryland. Also survived by grandson, Geoffrey Tobias. Services will be privately he
 ENO-M. Kathryn. Friends mourn the loss of their dear friend, Kathryn. She died on January 15 after a lengthy illness. She will be remembered for her vitality and deeply missed by her countless friends, who worked with her in the State Dept. and MOMA, and those who knew her through the relig
 FINKELSTEIN-Milton, Dr. On January 15, 2001, age 80 at Mt Sinai Hospital. Educator, author, chess player. Beloved husband for 50 years of the late Marilyn. Loving father of David, Joan and her husband Alan. Cherished grandfather of Sonia and Marina. Devoted brother of Bella, Harold and the 
 FOX-Barbara B. Phd. Deceased on January 15, 2001 after a brief illness. Beloved friend of many people in New York and the Hamptons. She will be greatly missed. Services on Thursday, January 18, 11:15AM, at Riverside Chapel, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave., New York City. Private interment. In li
 GAYNOR-Geraldyne. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a dear friend, a respected member of our Society of Founders and staunch supporter of cancer research at our institution. To her husband, James, and to the entire family, 
 RUBINSTEIN-Elsie. On January 15, 2001. Beloved wife of the late George H. Rubinstein. Devoted mother of Eric (Gail) and Fredric (Hope). Loving grandmother of Julie, Stuart and George Aaron. Loved by many, will be missed by all who knew her. Services at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterd
 STOTZKY-Kayla B. On January 15 of cancer. After a successful career as an interior designer, she returned to NYU, from which she received an Associate Degree in Interior Design, to obtain a BA in Fine Arts. She was the librarian and slide curator of the Department of Fine Arts at NYU, where
 BEREANO-Beatrice Rothman. On January 16, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Leon. Loving mother of Philip and Bruce. Cherished and unique grandmother of Joshua and Bryon. She will be profoundly missed and remembered always. Service Friday, 1 PM at the Riverdale Temple, West 246th St. and Indepe
 FINKELSTEIN-Milton, Dr. On January 15, 2001, age 80 at Mt Sinai Hospital. Educator, author, chess player. Beloved husband for 50 years of the late Marilyn. Loving father of David, Joan and her husband Alan. Cherished grandfather of Sonia and Marina. Devoted brother of Bella, Harold and the 
 FLYNN-Mary E. Died January 26, 2001, age 93. A native and real New Yorker. Beloved sister of the late John, James and Daniel. Beloved aunt of Patricia, John and James. Mass of the Resurrection at the Church of St. Paul the Apostle, 415 W. 59 St., NYC, on Tuesday, January 30 at 10 AM. Interm
 GREENE-Marcia Wheelock. Age 91, peacefully on January 28th. Marcia Greene of Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, New Jersey and Harborside, Maine. Widow of Col. Francis Martin Greene. She graduated in the class of 1931 at Vassar College, where she was later a member of the Admissions Department. Moth
 HARRIS-Eva (nee Haskin). On January 17th at her residence. Beloved wife of the late Herman. Loving mother of Ruth and Norma. Dear sister of Nat and the late Harry. Adored grandmother of Rebekah, Hillary, Deborah and Beth. Taught in N.Y.City schools for 36 years. Services will be today 10 AM
 HIRSCHBERG-Elizabeth Garey, 87. January 18 at home in Charlotte, NC. Her elegance and charm were surpassed only by her courage and spirit. Survived by her daughters Brenda Miles, Charlotte, NC; Suzanne Miles, Sante Fe, New Mexico; and her son Robert Miles, Sacramento, CA; seven grandchildre
 KESSLER-Deena. Died on January 15, 2001 after a two-year battle with ovarian cancer. Deena was born May 19, 1942 to Pearl and Abraham Kessler. Deena was preceded in death by her mother on January 5, 2001 and her father 28 years ago. Her sister Bonnie died in 1977. Surviving is her husband R
 KOEN-Julie. The family of Michael Lipstein wishes to express our deepest sorrow on the loss of our good friend, Julie Koen. We extend our sincere sympathy to the entire Koen family and the Marsh family on your terrible loss. Julie was an energetic and loving person, who lit up the lives of 
 LEVENE-Inez Cohn. Of Somers, NY and formerly of Mount Vernon, NY on Wednesday, January 17, 2001. Inez was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Hunter College. Beyond her love of family she was devoted to her sense of community responsibility. While a resident of Mount Vernon, she served proudly as 
 MARK-Isobel Ross Arnold passed away on January 26, 2001 at Hartford Hospital after a brief illness. Born at Kittanning, PA, Mrs. Mark was a resident for most of her life in Garden City, Long Island and laterally at Washington, CT, Litchfield, CT, and Bloomfield, CT. Mrs. Mark was married fo
 NEWMAN-Elinor Madeline. 85. Of Wilmington, DE, died January 26, 2001. Wife of the late Demarest Stephen Newman. Survivors include children, Elizabeth Cracco, Newark, DE., and Demarest Stephen Newman Jr., Middletown, NJ, daughter-in-law, Robin Newman. Grandchildren, Catherine Swanson, Wilmin
 POWERS-Irene Elizabeth. Passed away at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. on Tuesday evening, January 16, 2001. Irene, born July 2, 1909, was a 51-year New Rochelle resident and died at the age of 91. Irene is survived by her son Frederic B. Powers, Jr. and his wife Virginia of Larchomnt, N.Y. 
 ROMANOFF-Vera Princess. Memorial Service on Friday January 19, 2001, at 4 P.M. Saint Serge of Radonezh Church, Tolstoy Foundation Center, 104 Lake Rd, Valley Cottage, NY 10989. 845-268-6722. ROMANOV-Princess Vera Constantinovna. The Board of Directors of the Russian Children's Welfa
 SANDERS-Fay. On January 14, 2001. A Holocaust survivor and pianist who made her home in the United States since 1940. She is survived by many dear friends. Services Friday, 3P.M. at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 SEGAL-Bertha. EMUNAH of America mourns the loss of Bertha Segal, beloved mother of our esteemed builder and benefactor, Martin Segal and his brothers, Rabbi Jack Segal and David Segal. Bertha was a woman of great strength and determination who was committed to the ideals of EMUNAH and Relig
 STEINDLER - Eleanor. Flutist professionally known as Eleanor Lawrence. Died on January 16, 2001, age 64, of brain cancer. Played with American Symphony, New York Philharmonic, Brooklyn Phiharmonic, Metropolitan Opera Orchestra. Founder and Artistic Director of Monomoy Chamber Ensemble in Ch
 TANENBAUM-Anna, 89. On January 28. Beloved mother and mother-in-law of Dr. Warren and Nina Tanenbaum, Sally and Lee Ruffett, and Carole and Dr. Ronald Kolber. Dear grandmother of Daniel and Adam Kolber, and Jason and Lauren Tanenbaum. She is to be remembered for her unremitting love and dev
 TAYLOR-Cindi R. Loving daughter of Raymond and Joyce Taylor. Beloved sister of Denise, Scott and Dan. Dear aunt of Ross and Brooke Taylor. She brought joy and happiness to all around her. Funeral services today 1PM at I.J. Morris, 46 Greenwich Street, Hempstead.       
 WINNER-Mae (nee Halprin). Beloved wife of the late Raymond. Devoted mother of Christopher, Andrew and Beatrice. Loving twin sister of the late Ruth Halprin, loving sister of Helen Patterson, the late Robert Halprin and the late Evelyn Newman. Aunt to many nieces and nephews. Services 12:45 
 WOLF-Roslyn Zehman. The Officers, Board and Staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of the beloved wife of our distinguished past President Ambassador Milton A. Wolf. She worked with her husband to provide assistance to those in need throughout the 
 DEUTSCH-Madeline Mady, age 70, died Wednesday in Houston after a courageous nine year battle with cancer. She was born April 29, 1930 in Beregszasz, Czechoslovakia. Although she lost her father and brother during the Holocaust, she and her mother survived imprisonment in two concentration c
 FISH-Miriam. In Montreal on Monday January 15, 2001. Beloved mother and mother-in-law of Dr. Irving and Ilene Fish of Tenafly, New Jersey, Mildred and Dr. Allan Feldman of Montreal. Cherished Bubby of Sandy and Elizabeth Fish, Robert and Emi Fish, Peter Fish. Loving great grandmother of Jul
 JAMES-Katherine Magner. Died at home on Sunday, December 31st. Daughter of Thomas F. and Isabella C. Magner, she was born on January 23rd, 1901 in Brooklyn, NY. She is the widow of Warner Rutherford James and was also predeceased by a daughter, Cynthia McDonald. She is survived by a daughte
 KOEN-Julie. Beloved wife of Robert Koen. Loving mother of Jennifer and Jonathan Koen and mother-in-law of Mark Horowitz. Cherished daughter of Jerome and Norma Marsh of Livingston, NJ and daughter-in-law of Martha Koen and the late Bernard Koen of Great Neck, NY. Devoted and adored sister o
 PHILLIPS-Catherine. With profound sadness and grief, the Phillip's family deeply mourns the loss of Catherine Phillips, cherished wife and life-long beloved mate of Perry Phillips. Adored, loving, beloved mother and closest friend of daughter Christine Phillips and son Wesley Poriotis. Loya
 STEINDLER - Eleanor. Flutist professionally known as Eleanor Lawrence. Died on January 16, 2001, age 64, of brain cancer. Played with American Symphony, New York Philharmonic, Brooklyn Phiharmonic, Metropolitan Opera Orchestra. Founder and Artistic Director of Monomoy Chamber Ensemble in Ch
 WENTWORTH-Nancy F. 76. Of Sarasota, FL. Died January 16, 2001. Born Nancy Belle Fogel on December 25, 1924 in Audubon, NJ. She moved to Sarasota in 1980 from Toronto, Canada. She was active in local volunteer activities and a member of the Sara Bay Country Club. She was predeceased by a bro
 Vera Constantinova, a princess of Russia long active in Russian-American emigre circles and charitable organizations, died on Jan. 11 at the Tolstoy Foundation Center in Valley Cottage, N.Y. She was 94. Princess Vera was born near St. Petersburg, a daughter of Grand Duke Constantine
 Dr. Dorothy M. Horstmann, an epidemiologist, virologist, polio pioneer and the first woman appointed as a professor at the Yale School of Medicine, died on Jan. 11 in New Haven. She was 89. She had Alzheimer's disease, said Dr. I. George Miller, a colleague and professor of virology
 FREEDMAN - Patty. Always shared a warm smile, a genuine laugh, a friendly nonjudgmental ear and a sincere caring with each of us. She was ''Mom'' to many, regardless of their age, and support to all. Her spirit endures and lives through us. We have been fortunate to have had her help us ''D
 GALLO-Dolores Daniele. Dolores Gallo of Briarcliff Manor, NY passed away at her home in Singer Island, FL, surrounded by her family on December 27, 2000 after a prolonged illness. Dolores Gallo leaves to cherish her memory her devoted husband of 47 years, Thomas J. Gallo, her mother, Louise
 HECHT-Iole. January 20, 2001. Cherished daughter of the late Joseph and the late Filomena Isernia. Loving mother of Debra Hecht and Steven Eigner. Devoted sister of Eva, Termale and Claudio Isernia. Service Sunday, January 21, 2001, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st
 JAMES-Katherine Magner. Died at home on Sunday, December 31st. Daughter of Thomas F. and Isabella C. Magner, she was born on January 23rd, 1901 in Brooklyn, NY. She is the widow of Warner Rutherford James and was also predeceased by a daughter, Cynthia McDonald. She is survived by a daughte
 KILCOIN-Alice, 94, on January 17, 2001. Graduate of Hunter College and Registrar of the Graduate Division. Beloved aunt of Mary Elizabeth Woodburn, Amanda McGehee, Roger Meade, Janet Snow, six grandnieces and nephews and a great-grandniece. Admired for her positive spirit, devotion to famil
 KOEN-Julie. Judith and Michael Lipstein and family wishes to express our deepest sorrow on the loss of our good friend, Julie Koen. We extend our sincere sympathy to the entire Koen family and the Marsh family on your terrible loss. Julie was an energetic and loving person, who lit up the l
 LAWRENCE-Eleanor. The New York Flute Club mourns the death of Eleanor Lawrence, who served three terms as our president and many years as a devoted member of our board, and extends its condolences to her family.       
 LIND-Alice. MSW/ACSW Diplomate. Of Sag Harbor, formerly of New Rochelle. On January 19, 2001 in Ft. Myers, FL, following a severe stroke. A pioneer in the field of social group work in mental health, and creating the therapeutic community in the psychiatric hospital. Director of Social Work
 McGONIGLE-Martha Parrish. Of Morristown, NJ on January 19, 2001. Mother of Melanie Bowden of New York City and Walter Bowden of Savannah, GA. Daughter of Lorraine A. Parrish of Tampa, FL. Sister of Elizabeth Yingling of Katonah, NY. Wife of James J. McGonigle of Morristown, NJ, formerly of 
 SILBER-Judith Lash. On January, 19, 2001. Loving mother of Marc, Marti and Lauren and mother-inlaw of Gina and Scott. Devoted daughter of Dorothy. Dear sister of Rosalie and Diane. Adoring grandmother of William. She will be greatly missed by all whose lives she touched. Memorial service Mo
 STEINDLER - Eleanor. Flutist professionally known as Eleanor Lawrence. Died on January 16, 2001, age 64, of brain cancer. Played with American Symphony, New York Philharmonic, Brooklyn Phiharmonic, Metropolitan Opera Orchestra. Founder and Artistic Director of Monomoy Chamber Ensemble in Ch
 TAYLOR-Cindi Robin. Loving daughter of Raymond and Joyce Taylor. Beloved sister of Denise, Scott and Dan, sister-in-law of Debby, aunt of Ross and Brooke Taylor, niece of Dr. Stuart Levy, Barbara Rosenbaum and Doris Taylor. Passed away peacefully on January 16th, 2001. Contributions in her 
 Beverley Peck Johnson, a noted voice teacher and a member of the faculty at the Juilliard School of Music since 1964, died on Saturday in Manhattan. She was 96. Ms. Johnson was a highly trusted and notably successful voice teacher, as the long list of eminent singers who studied wit
 Chrissie Collins, who with her husband devised and promoted what became the MedicAlert bracelet as a way to provide emergency medical information, died on Jan. 8 in Turlock, Calif. She was 94. The concept of jewelry that could alert emergency personnel to allergies and other critica
 Elizabeth Sewell, a poet, critic and novelist, died on Jan. 12 in Greensboro, N.C. She was 81. Ms. Sewell was the author of five books of criticism, including ''The Orphic Voice,'' about the role of the imagination in literature and science. She wrote four novels, including 
 BENISCH-Evelyn Eckenroth. Of Plandome, New York, died Wednesday, January 17, 2001, at home in her 98th year. Beloved wife of the late Charles Edward Benisch. Loving mother of Charles and John, and loving mother-in-law of Nancy and Muriel. Adored grandmother of Susan, Christopher, Loel, Erik
 BLOOMBERG - Marion (Beer man) of Swampscott, MA, on January 19, 2001, a few days before her 99th birthday; beloved daughter of the late Morris and Ida Beerman, adored wife of the late Haskell Bloomberg, dearest mother of Elaine and Charles Petschek, Beverly and Bertram Glovsky, and Muriel a
 COSENTINO-Josephine Batchelder. 75, of New York City, entered into eternal rest on Saturday, January 20. Born in Lynn, MA, she was a 1946 graduate of Wellesley College in MA. She is survived by her husband John A. Cosentino of New York City, and her two sons John A. Jr. of Simsbury, CT, and
 Di RAFFAELE-Ida J. Of North Woodmere, Long Island. Beloved wife of Salvatore. Devoted mother of Carrie and Jeffrey and son-inlaw Richard. Dear sister of Anthony and loving grandmother of Drew, Regan and Sage. Also survived by her devoted cousin Laura. Visitation Monday, Lawrence Funeral Cha
 DRABICKI-Leona N. (Levine). Of Riverdale, NY, on January 20, 2001. Beloved mother of Renee Levine. The most wonderful mother, sister and friend anyone could be blessed with. She will be loved, missed and remembered always. Funeral mass will be celebrated at Gate of Heaven Cemetery, Hawthorn
 JAMES-Katherine Magner. Died at home on Sunday, December 31st. Daughter of Thomas F. and Isabella C. Magner, she was born on January 23rd, 1901 in Brooklyn, NY. She is the widow of Warner Rutherford James and was also predeceased by a daughter, Cynthia McDonald. She is survived by a daughte
 JOHNSON-Beverley Peck. The Juilliard School mourns the death of Beverley Peck Johnson, esteemed member of the faculty since 1964. As one of the most distinguished voice teachers of the 20th Century, with dignity, grace and remarkable focus, Beverley developed generations of singers who have
 SILBER-Judith Lash. On January, 19, 2001. Loving mother of Marc, Marti and Lauren and mother-inlaw of Gina and Scott. Devoted daughter of Dorothy. Dear sister of Rosalie and Diane. Adoring grandmother of William. She will be greatly missed by all whose lives she touched. Memorial service Mo
 WEISS-Elsie Frank. Died January 19, 2001, at age 89. Beloved wife for 70 years of Harold M. Weiss. Cherished mother of Sindy and Malcolm Becker, and Benita and Dr. Bernard Dolin. Loving grandmother of Drs. Tanya and Bruce Becker, Drs. Pamela and John Mitamura, Nicole and David Cairrao and D
 WILSON-Yvonne J. Beloved wife of David A. Wilson died after a long illness on January 18th in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL. Formerly of Summit, NJ. She is survived by a son David A. Wilson, Jr., daughter, Ruth Y. Wilson and three grandchildren. She was predeceased by her first daughter, Jane C. Mc
 CLODER-Blanche. 88. Of New York City. On January 21, 2001. She was pre deceased by her husband, Benjamin Cloder. Survived by beloved son, Robert and daughter-in-law, Elaine of Pelham, N.Y., 2 grandchildren, Jocelyn and Russell. Services were held on Monday. Donations may be made to Calvary 
 COSENTINO-Josephine Batchelder. 75, of New York City, entered into eternal rest on Saturday, January 20. Born in Lynn, MA, she was a 1946 graduate of Wellesley College in MA. She is survived by her husband John A. Cosentino of New York City, and her two sons John A. Jr. of Simsbury, CT, and
 FRANK-Ann Marqusee. Passed away January 21, 2001 peacefully in her home in FL. She is survived by her devoted and beloved husband Charles, adoring children Patricia (Neil) Koslowe and Pamela (David) Garry. Cherished grand children Jamin (Shana), Shana (Bini), Oren, Jenna, Tavi, Sarah and Ta
 GREEN-Miriam Blau. The Staff, Candidates, and Faculty of Postgraduate Center for Mental Health mourn the passing of Miriam Blau Green, Ed.D., distinguished faculty member and supervisor. Her contributions as former director of our family and couples training program will always be remembere
 JOHNSON-Beverley Peck. The Juilliard School mourns the death of Beverley Peck Johnson, esteemed member of the faculty since 1964. As one of the most distinguished voice teachers of the 20th Century, with dignity, grace and remarkable focus, Beverley developed generations of singers who have
 LYONS-Sylvia R. Nee Schoenberger. On January 21, 2001. Widow of Leonard Lyons, loving daughter of Pepi Einstein, sister of Sam Berg and Roseanna Schoenberger, beloved mother of George, Warren, Jeffrey, and Douglas, mother-in-law of Robin, Judy, and Nancy, grandmother of Pamela McLean (Jon),
 MESINGER-Maxine. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) mourn the loss of our cherished friend and Board Member, who passed away on January 19, 2001. While we grieve, we also celebrate Maxine Mesinger's many extraordinary qualities, which we ha
 SLOVES-Sylvia. On January 21, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Loving mother of Karla Toledano and mother-in-law of Edward Toledano. Cherished grandmother of Andrew. Dear sister of Paula Lucks, Jack Schulman, Hilda Milstein and the late Adele Trachtenbroit, Leo and Honey Schulman. Ser
 STEINER - Claire Friedman. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her husband Alfred and her family. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, Co-President Michael H. Laufer, Co-President       
 SUNKIN-Mimi. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schreiber, President SUNKIN-Mi
 TYSON-Florence. Died January 18, at home. The creative arts therapy community gives thanks for the life and work of Florence Tyson, incomparable therapist, who founded the Creative Arts Rehabilitation Center and dedicated her life to the fierce beauty and struggle of all those who came in s
 BURAK-Beatrice. On January 22, 2001 at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Gloria Heifetz and her husband Stanley, Sondra Grundman and her husband Neil, Janet Burak and her fiance Kenneth Starger and the late Harvey Burak. Devoted grandmother of Erika, Stacey and Nancy
 DECKER-Elsie Christina Sofia. Beloved wife of the late George Rogers Decker for 69 years, devoted and inspiring mother, grandmother, and great grandmother, died peacefully at John Knox Village in Pompano Beach, FL, on January 20 at age 97. She is survived by her sons, John Rogers Decker of 
 KARCHMER-Harriet. On December 24, 2000. Born Springfield, MO February 19, 1925. A Tulane Univ. graduate, she translated Russian documents for U.S. government. In NY, she organized trade shows and promoted the work of an antiZionist Orthodox Jewish group. A tireless champion of Palestinian r
 PEREIRA-Susan. On January 23, 2001, beloved wife of Mark Rubin, treasured daughter of Helene and Hans Pragan, devoted mother of David and Emily, loving stepmother of Leslie and Audrey Rubin, dear mother-in-law of Tom Bachmann. Adoring grandmother of Helena Bachmann. A private memorial will 
 Candida Donadio, the celebrated literary agent who sold Joseph Heller's first novel, ''Catch-22,'' and Philip Roth's ''Goodbye, Columbus,'' died on Saturday at her home in Stonington, Conn. She was 71. According to Neil Olson, her partner in Donadio & Olson, the cause was cancer. Ms
 COOPER-Dvora (nee Wolinsky). On Saturday, Jan. 20, in York, PA. Born March 4, 1910, in Gomel, Russia. A graduate of the Workmen's Circle School, Wadleigh High School and the City College of New York, she was a trained classical pianist with her own weekly radio show on WEVD-FM and she dance
 DeGOT-Laine Cloutier (Broadway's Laine Blair). Died Monday Januray 22nd, 2001, age 96 years. Beloved wife of the late Eugene Philbin DeGot. Adored mother of Stephen (Christine Schmidt) DeGot and Philbin (Jim Schulz). Grandmother of Kenneth (Dr. Christine Blackwell) Philbin DeGot, Anne DeGot
 DILLOF-Carolyn. On January 22, 2001, age 52, after a brief battle with pancreatic cancer. She was born in Philadelphia, where she received her R.N. from Philadelphia General Hospital School of Nursing. She had been a resident of Great Neck, NY for 28 years and an Assistant Librarian at the 
 GREEN - Dr. Miriam. The Trustees, Faculty and Students of the Institute for Child, Adolescent & Family Studies mourn the sudden loss of Dr. Miriam (Mimi) Green. A devoted teacher, an inspiring supervisor and a beloved friend, Mimi will be missed by all of us. Our heartfelt sympathy goes to 
 NOXON-Margaret Walters. Of Wilton, CT, formerly of Manhattan. Died on January 18, 2001, devoted wife of the late Herbert Richards Noxon, survived by her niece, Mrs. William D. Rider, of New Canaan, CT, and her nephew, Dr. Sherwood George Walters, of Hampstead, N.C. Services and interment ar
 WIESENTHAL - Sarah. Beloved mother to Helen & Gabriel. Sarah loved honesty, reading, pottery, painting and her independence. Keep out of trouble, Ma.       
 Virginia O'Brien, a familiar face and voice in film musicals and comedies of the 1940's, died on Jan. 16 in Woodland Hills, a Los Angeles suburb. She was 81. Ms. O'Brien owed her film career to stage fright. When she made her stage debut in Los Angeles in 1940, she was too nervous t
 APPELBAUM-Marion. On January 24, 2001, beloved wife of Bob, devoted daughter, sister, and aunt. What a wonderful battle she waged against a very aggressive cancer, finally succumbing with the same dignity with which she lived. Dearly loved by her family, her many friends, and her employees.
 BEIN-Helen, 94. On January 23. Devoted wife of the late David. Dear mother of Judith Lesser (Irwin) and Michael Bein. Sister of Blanche Delman (George) and Ben Readerman. She also leaves three grandsons and three greatgrandchildren.       
 ELMAN-Naomi Geist. Age 86. Of New York City. On January 22, 2001. She leaves her daughter, Peggy Gillespie, granddaughter Jay, nieces Harriet Moulton and Susan Geist, nephews Jack Hayflick and Harry Geist. Memorial March 18, 2001 in New York City.       
 SCHAINHOLTZ-Henry, CLU. Beloved husband of the late Pauline. Devoted father of Dr. Bernard and Joan Schainholtz and Rita and Michael Resnick. Cherished grandfather of Dana Schainholtz, Mara Schainholtz and her fiance, Tim, and Jennifer and Marc Devins. Adoring great grandfather of Samuel. G
 SCHNEIDER-Linda T., M.D., age 95, died on January 23, 2001, at her home in New York City. Dr. Schneider was born in Tallinn, Estonia, on April 15, 1905. She came to New York City in 1923 supported by a YMCA scholarship to Vassar College, became a U.S. citizen, received her undergraduate deg
 Anne Ball, a retailing executive who helped impart a stylish image to some of the country's most elite clothing stores, died on Jan. 19 in Manhattan. She was 52 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was liver cancer, said her husband, Frank Ball. With taste described as
 COPELAND - Pamela Cunning ham, 94, of Wilmington, Delaware, died at her home on Jan. 25, 2001. She was the widow of Lammot du Pont Copeland. Mrs. Copeland's survivors include 2 sons, Lammot duP. Copeland, Jr., and Gerret vanS. Copeland, both of Wilimington, DE and a daughter Louisa C. Dueml
 DeFEO-Catherine F. On January 21, 2001. Age 75. Beloved wife of the late Louis DeFeo. Devoted mother of MaryAnn McCarty, Neil DeFeo and the late Joseph DeFeo. Dear sister of John DeFino & the late Stephen DeFino. Loving grandmother of GinaMarie Cantarella, Joseph, Nicky, Vanessa, Louis and 
 ELBERTH-Mary. Died peacefully in her home on January 25, 2001. Devoted mother of Dr. Maryann Elberth and Robin Elberth. Services Saturday/Sunday, Bartholomew Funeral Home, Bellmore, NY. Mass at St. Barnabas Church Monday 9:45 AM. Interment Long Island National Cemetery.       
 HELM-Mary R. Widow of Harold H. Helm, who headed Chemical Bank from 1947-1965. Mrs. Helm died on Jan. 25, eleven days after reaching her 100 birthday, in Montclair, N.J. where she resided since 1928. Mrs. Helm was a resident of New York from the 1940's to the 1970's. Survived by her daughte
 CARLSON-Carole J., 60, of New York City, died Monday, January 8, 2001 at her home. She was born January 2, 1941 in Connecticut, daughter of the late George E. Carlson & Edith V. Carlson. Carole worked as a medical secretary & was an avid painter and knitter and enjoyed fine cuisine. She is 
 COPELAND - Pamela Cunning ham, 94, of Wilmington, Delaware, died at her home on Jan. 25, 2001. She was the widow of Lammot du Pont Copeland. Mrs. Copeland's survivors include 2 sons, Lammot duP. Copeland, Jr., and Gerret vanS. Copeland, both of Wilimington, DE and a daughter Louisa C. Dueml
 DeGOT-Laine Cloutier (Broadway's Laine Blair). Died Monday Januray 22nd, 2001, age 96 years. Beloved wife of the late Eugene Philbin DeGot. Adored mother of Stephen (Christine Schmidt) DeGot and Philbin (Jim Schulz). Grandmother of Kenneth (Dr. Christine Blackwell) Philbin DeGot, Anne DeGot
 ELTING-Faye. 87. Passed away on January 23, 2001, after a brief illness. Loving mother of Lois and Eve. Grandmother of David and Eric. Former wife of L.M. Elting, MD. Born in Bayonne, NJ, attended Staten Island School of Nursing and resided in Teaneck, NJ, for over 50 years. She was an acti
 FLYNN-Mary E. Died January 26, 2001, age 93. A native and real New Yorker. Beloved sister of the late John, James and Daniel. Beloved aunt of Patricia, John and James. Mass of the Resurrection at the Church of St. Paul the Apostle, 415 W. 59 St., NYC, on Tuesday, January 30 at 10 AM. Interm
 LOEW-Dr. Gilda B. On January 5, 2001, at age 70, in Atherton, CA, after a valiant struggle with breast cancer. Born and raised in Brooklyn, NY, Gilda attended Erasmus Hall High School, graduated from NYU (B.S.) and Columbia (M.S.), and earned a Ph.D. in chemistry from UC Berkeley. After sev
 SCHNEIDER-Linda T., M.D., age 95, died on January 23, 2001, at her home in New York City. Dr. Schneider was born in Tallinn, Estonia, on April 15, 1905. She came to New York City in 1923 supported by a YMCA scholarship to Vassar College, became a U.S. citizen, received her undergraduate deg
 WEINBERG - SONNENBLUM Amy. It is with great sorrow that we announce that our mother, Amy Weinberg-Sonnenblum, died of natural causes on January 23, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Irving J. Weinberg. Loving mother of Janice Berger of West Palm Beach, FL, Alice M. Chafetz of Rockville Centre,
 Elizabeth Meyer Lorentz, a movie scriptwriter and author of a book on networking, died on Saturday at a hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 87 and lived in Rye, N.Y. The cause was pneumonia, said her sister Katharine Graham, the former publisher of The Washington Post who is chair
 The last queen of Italy, Maria Jos of Savoy, who served after World War II for only 27 days before Italians voted to abolish the monarchy, died on Saturday in a Geneva hospital. She was 94. The daughter of Albert I, king of Belgium, Maria Jos in 1930 married Prince Umberto II, w
 BROZMAN-Melba V. On January 28, 2001, at age 64. Best wife, mother and friend that God ever created. Melba will never be forgotten by her family and many, many friends. Beloved wife of Shep and loving mother of Owen. Contributions in her memory may be made to Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospit
 DIAMOND-Dorothy. On January 28, 2001, at age 76. Beloved wife of Seymour. Loving mother of Anne Diamond McNevin and Emily Diamond Hanlon. Adoring grandmother of Ned, William, Gabriella, Shane and Elizabeth. Dear sister of Janice Hollander and Harriet Scherer. Friends may call at Frank E. Ca
 FLYNN-Mary E. Died January 26, 2001, age 93. A native and real New Yorker. Beloved sister of the late John, James and Daniel. Beloved aunt of Patricia, John and James. Mass of the Resurrection at the Church of St. Paul the Apostle, 415 W. 59 St., NYC, on Tuesday, January 30 at 10 AM. Interm
 LORENTZ-Elizabeth Meyer. On January 27, 2001, after a long illness. Daughter of the late Eugene and Agnes E. Meyer, wife of the late Pare Lorentz, survived by her sisters, Katharine Graham of Washington, D.C., and Ruth Epstein of Bronxville, New York, and by twelve nieces and nephews and tw
 PRICE-Iris R. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished and devoted member, Iris R. Price. We extend our deepest condolences to her family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai Monday, January 29, at 10 AM. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Eme
 FLYNN-Mary E. Died January 26, 2001, age 93. A native and real New Yorker. Beloved sister of the late John, James and Daniel. Beloved aunt of Patricia, John and James. Mass of the Resurrection at the Church of St. Paul the Apostle, 415 W. 59 St., NYC, on Tuesday, January 30 at 10 AM. Interm
 GREENE-Marcia Wheelock. Age 91, peacefully on January 28th. Marcia Greene of Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, New Jersey and Harborside, Maine. Widow of Col. Francis Martin Greene. She graduated in the class of 1931 at Vassar College, where she was later a member of the Admissions Department. Moth
 HIRSCHBERG-Elizabeth Garey, 87. January 18 at home in Charlotte, NC. Her elegance and charm were surpassed only by her courage and spirit. Survived by her daughters Brenda Miles, Charlotte, NC; Suzanne Miles, Sante Fe, New Mexico; and her son Robert Miles, Sacramento, CA; seven grandchildre
 MARK-Isobel Ross Arnold passed away on January 26, 2001 at Hartford Hospital after a brief illness. Born at Kittanning, PA, Mrs. Mark was a resident for most of her life in Garden City, Long Island and laterally at Washington, CT, Litchfield, CT, and Bloomfield, CT. Mrs. Mark was married fo
 NEWMAN-Elinor Madeline. 85. Of Wilmington, DE, died January 26, 2001. Wife of the late Demarest Stephen Newman. Survivors include children, Elizabeth Cracco, Newark, DE., and Demarest Stephen Newman Jr., Middletown, NJ, daughter-in-law, Robin Newman. Grandchildren, Catherine Swanson, Wilmin
 TANENBAUM-Anna, 89. On January 28. Beloved mother and mother-in-law of Dr. Warren and Nina Tanenbaum, Sally and Lee Ruffett, and Carole and Dr. Ronald Kolber. Dear grandmother of Daniel and Adam Kolber, and Jason and Lauren Tanenbaum. She is to be remembered for her unremitting love and dev
 WINNER-Mae (nee Halprin). Beloved wife of the late Raymond. Devoted mother of Christopher, Andrew and Beatrice. Loving twin sister of the late Ruth Halprin, loving sister of Helen Patterson, the late Robert Halprin and the late Evelyn Newman. Aunt to many nieces and nephews. Services 12:45 
 WOLF-Roslyn Zehman. The Officers, Board and Staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of the beloved wife of our distinguished past President Ambassador Milton A. Wolf. She worked with her husband to provide assistance to those in need throughout the 
 Florence Tyson, an early practitioner of creative arts therapy who for many years led a clinic for emotionally troubled people in Manhattan, died on Jan. 18 at her home on the Upper East Side. She was 82. Ms. Tyson founded the community-oriented Creative Arts Rehabilitation Center i
 BLUMBERG-Lily G. Passed away January 29, 2001. Of Plantation FL., formerly of Rockville Centre, L.I. Loving wife of the late Howard to whom she was married 42 years. Adored mother of Joel (Judith), Peter (Judy) and Marilyn (Karen). Cherished and proud grandmother of 11, great grandmother of
 CHAPPELL-Elizabeth Greenleaf. Age 90, of Somers, NY, died peacefully at her home on January 29, 2001. She was the wife of the late William B. Chappell. Her survivors include a son, William B. Chappell, Jr. of Pawling, NY, a daughter, Lydia Chappell of Cos Cob, CT, two grandchildren and two 
 CIRKER-Lillian H. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board and staff of Peninsula Hospital Center are saddened by the passing of Lillian Cirker, honored donor and friend. Sincere condolences are extended to her brother-in-law, Stanley S. Cirker, Esq, esteemed Sr. Vice Chairman,
 COHEN-Marilyn. Died peacefully on January 30th, 2001. Surviving are her deeply loving husband, Max, her adoring children, Ellen and Ronald Murphy and Donald and Diane Cohen; her four adoring grandchildren, Emily and Jared Cohen and Alexandra and Joanna Murphy; and by her brother and sister-
 COLASANTE-Angeline J. (Angie). September 3, 2000 of Greenwich Village, New York. Formerly of Philadelphia, PA. An employee of HUD of New York City. Sister of the late Rose Colasante, Mary Martinelli, and Mildred Colasante. Survived by her brother Joseph Colasante, her sisters Lee Cresta and
 GOLDFARB - Hannah. Died peacefully in her sleep on January 29, 2001. Beloved mother of Ralph Newmeyer & Geri Roth, motherin-law of Isabel Newmeyer and Barry Roth. Adored grandmother of Ronald & Karen Roth, Richard and Karen Newmeyer, Gary and Cindi Roth, and Michelle Newmeyer. Loving great 
 KASS-MESNICK-Elaine, M.D. The Medical Board of Elmhurst Hospital Center, the Department of Pediatrics, the entire medical staff and the Mount Sinai School of Medicine Affiliation mourn the loss of their beloved friend, respected colleague, and long time associate, Elaine Kass-Mesnick, M.D. 
 KLEIN-Jessie. On January 29, 2001. Beloved sister of Florence and John Sherman. Adored aunt of Rita Sherman and Jeffrey Seward, Ray Sherman, Diana Ambats, and Robert Klein. Loyal friend to so many. She was beautiful, outside and in, and will forever be in our hearts. Services Thursday, Febr
 PETZRIK-Esther M. Of Stamford, CT., and Naples, FL. died Monday, January 29, 2001 in Naples, FL. Survived by her husband, Eugene J. Petzrik.       
 SAVOY-Marie Jose, 94, on Saturday, January 27, 2001. The Board of Directors of the American Foundation of Savoy Orders, Incorporated records with deep sadness the passing of the last Queen of Italy. Contributions in her memory will be gratefully accepted by the Foundation at 605 Third Avenu
 SCHAFF-Florence Bigelow. Of Westport, CT, formerly a longtime resident of Fairfield, CT, died in Norwalk Hospital. She was the wife of the late Norman Schaff, Jr. A funeral service will be held Thursday, February 8, 2001, at 11 AM in Trinity Episcopal Church, Southport, CT.       
