 ENLANDER--Caron. Yeshiva University Women's Organization mourns the passing of one of its most devoted leaders, a member of our National Presidium, a woman of exceptional grace, elegance and courage, and a true baalat chesed. Caron, you were revered in the diamond business for your characte
 HENDLER - Marcia. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to her husband Richard, her sons Jeffrey, Paul, Steven and to the entire family. Aubrey L. Glazer, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Norton D. Shar
 LUBITZ - Sylvia, passed peacefully early Tuesday morning at home in Palm Beach, with her husband and daughter holding her hands. If you knew her, then you know how sad a passing this is, but you also know that it is not a tragic passing. Sylvia led a life so full of glamour and pleasure, fu
 SCHWARTZ--Estelle 99 Loving wife of the late Aaron. Adored mother of Eva Litwak and Vera (Stanley T.) Miller. Cherished grandmother of Gail, Roy, Kenneth, Melinda and Joshua. Greatgrandmother of 10. She lived a long and beautiful life and was the love of all our lives Services Sunday June 4
 Anita B. Roberts, a molecular biologist who made pioneering observations of a protein that is critical in healing wounds and bone fractures and that has a dual role in blocking or stimulating cancers, died on Friday at her home in Bethesda, Md. She was 64. The cause was gastric canc
 ENLANDER--Caron. Her desire to do good for others inspired the founding of Lenox Hill Bikur Cholim. Heartfelt sympathy to Derek & family. Chava Rose, President       
 MARROW--Jane. In Concord, MA, formerly of Scarsdale, NY May 31. Beloved wife of Gordon H. Bemis. Dear mother of Eliza Jane Marrow Bemis and Robert Sy Marrow Bemis, both of Concord. Cherished sister of Deborah Marrow of Santa Monica, CA. Also survived by many loving nieces, nephews, cousins 
 MORSE--Elizabeth. Elizabeth Leah Coates Morse, 87, died on May 5, 2006 in Fort Collins, CO. Born August 3, 1918, in NYC, the daughter of John Ora Beverly Coates and Emily Pearce Coates. She married Harold G. Morse on June 23, 1943. She dearly loved music and poetry. She traced her ancestry 
 APPEL--Patricia (nee Loveland), died on May 28, 2006 at St. Rose's Home in Manhattan. Born May 17, 1928 in Detroit, raised in Minnesota, Patricia was a longtime resident of St. Chamas in Provence, France and of Greenwich Village. She was an accomplished photo editor and photo-journalist. Bl
 PIERCE--Willa Martin, a resident of Rye, NY died Tuesday, May 30. She was 94, and was the wife of the late Marvin Pierce. Services will be private.       
 STAHL--Reva, age 76, passed away at home in New Rochelle on June 2, 2006. Reva, originally from Massachusetts, lived there until a recent move to New York after the passing of her husband of 57 years, Joseph. She is survived by her sister Frummie Lourie, brother Reuben Silver, her children 
 TOPPERMAN - Muriel, 84. Loving wife of David. Adored mother of Marcia Kleinberg and the late Eugene Topperman. Cherished grandmother of Lauren and Joanna. She lived a long and beautiful life and was the love of our lives. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent in her memory to the In
 Barbara Furrer Goodman, a teacher and former chairwoman of the board of trustees at Teachers College at Columbia University, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. She was 74. The cause was complications from a kidney disorder, said her husband, former State Senator Roy
 APPEL--Patricia (nee Loveland), died on May 28, 2006 at St. Rose's Home in Manhattan. Born May 17, 1928 in Detroit, raised in Minnesota, Patricia was a longtime resident of St. Chamas in Provence, France and of Greenwich Village. She was an accomplished photo editor and photo-journalist. Bl
 FENIK--Inci Koner. Passed away May 22, 2006. Wife of Faruk Fenik, mother of Mehmet and Omer. A graduate of Robert College, Istanbul, Turkey, class of 1944, she was a speaker on the Turkish Voice Radio and TV programs from 1968 until 2000. She will be remembered with love and affection by he
 GARY--Nancy E., M.D., 69, of Washington DC, died on May 31, 2006. A resident of Washington DC for 20 years, she lived for 25 years in Manhasset, NY. She is survived by her brothers, Walter Gary of Walla Walla, WA, Thomas Gary of Manhasset, NY, Peter Q. Gary of Springfield, VA and father Pau
 PIERCE--Willa Martin, a resident of Rye, NY died Tuesday, May 30. She was 94, and was the wife of the late Marvin Pierce. Services will be private.       
 STAHL--Reva, age 76, passed away at home in New Rochelle on June 2, 2006. Reva, originally from Massachusetts, lived there until a recent move to New York after the passing of her husband of 57 years, Joseph. She is survived by her sister Frummie Lourie, brother Reuben Silver, her children 
 WENDER--Sylvia, age 83, formerly of Forest Hills, NY, passed away on May 22, 2006. She was pre-deceased by her beloved husband Leonard and is survived by her sons Stephen (Sharon) of Plantation, FL and Toby of Atlanta, GA; grandchildren Alison, Matthew and Jaime Wender of Plantation, and he
 PATELL--Estrella. 78, passed away on May 31 after battling cancer and kidney disease. Cherished wife of Rusi, devoted mother of Cyrus and Shireen, loving mother-in-law of Deborah and Jimmy, adored lola of Liam and Caleb, caring sister of Noli and Angelita. Born in the Philippines, she earne
 PHILLIPS--Giovanna December 31, 1913 -May 27 2006 died peacefully after a short illness at her home in West Palm Beach. A native of Florence, she worked as a free-lance writer and was active in charities in New York and Palm Beach. She is survived by her sons Anthony and Guy, her daughter B
 FISH--Edith. The Board, staff, and volunteers of the Alzheimer's Association, NYC Chapter morn the loss of Edith Fish, mother of board member, Daniel G. Fish, Esq.We extend our heartfelt condolences to her loving family. Susan V. Kayser, Mark A Zurack, Co-Chairs. Lou-Ellen Barkan, President
 Barbara Furrer Goodman, a teacher and former chairwoman of the board of trustees at Teachers College at Columbia University, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. She was 74. The cause was complications from a kidney disorder, said her husband, former State Senator Roy
 McLAUGHLIN -- Anne (nee Hann). Age 96, died peacefully on Saturday, June 3, 2006 at the Ocean Medical Center in Brick, NJ. Anne was born in Westfield, NJ and lived in the Bronx, NY for many years. While there, she was an active member of St. Simon Stock Parish. She moved to New Jersey in 19
 BONGIOVANNI - Raymond. We lost you ten years ago today. ''A Sign of the Times We live, we die We laugh, we cry We know not why'' $(6$)BONGIOVANNI -- Raymond. June 5, 1996. ''She was no longer wrestling with the grief, but could sit down with it as a lasting companion, and make it a 
 GOODMAN - Howard. 13 years but your dynamism endures. Our talented Mara, celebrity humorist-novelist. Her Halle is two, British Justin now American. Blessed with super legacy you left us. Roni & Families       
 CANTOR--Sol W. With loving thoughts of all your Sacramento visits. Our love to Muriel and her family. Doris and Bud       
 DOBRER--Annette. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Mother of Marilyn Piken, Georgia Kramer, and her husband Nat. Grandmother of Lisa and Tom Piken, Cheryl and David Kramer, and his wife Jody. Great grandmother of Justin and Caroline. Sister of Bernard Hoffman. She enriched the lives of many
 GEIST--Helen Bowers. Died June 4, 2006 in NYC. Beloved mother of Ellen Geist Van Beuren and Bradley B. Geist, beloved grandmother of Bradley B. Geist, Jr., Tyler Geist Duer and Nicholas Van V. Geist and great-grandmother of Avery S. Duer and Nancy L. Duer. A service will be held on Wednesda
 RAMOT--Bracha, M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with sorrow the passing of a distinguished researcher and clinical expert in hematology and oncology, who received her early training in hematology at our institution, in the laboratory of our founding cha
 ELEY-HANDLER--Jennifer.The Long Island Philharmonic mourns the loss of our long time friend, supporter and principal pianist. Jennifer's outstanding talent, loyalty and passion for the orchestra will be long remembered and appreciated. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband John
 MINIFIE--Frances T.J. 89, died May 31, 2006, in Newport, R.I. Wife of the late Benjamin Minifie. Her Memorial Service Saturday June 10 at 11 A.M. in Emmanuel Church, 42 Dearborn St, Newport, R.I.       
 COE--Nancy. Age 75, passed away at home in Rumson, NJ on June 5, 2006. Devoted mother, grandmother and friend has died at the age of 75 surrounded by family. Nancy is survived by her brother, David Norling, her children, Jeff Coe, Chelle Coe Gourlay, Matthew Coe and Abby Coe Flanagan, and 1
 GARMENT--Nancy. Died June 4th, 2006 in Denver, CO. Beloved sister of the late Randi Finkelstein. We will miss your beauty, wit, and your indomitable spirit during your battle with cancer. Deepest sympathy to her parents and loving husband Jeremy. Joan Glance.       
 KALLENBACH--Susan Fran. Died on May 26, 2006 in New York City after a prolonged battle with cancer. Ms. Kallenbach graduated from Douglass College and received a Master's in Library Science from Drexel University. Ms. Kallenbach was a librarian and held management positions at the Van Pelt 
 MACKSOUD--Carmen B. Age 91, passed away on June 3, 2006. Born in Milford, PA. Loving sister of Alice Macksoud and Laure Jones. Devoted aunt of Peter Jones and Suzanne, Kevin Jones and Elda. Also survived by her sister-in-law Leslie Macksoud and her children, Suzanne, Joyce, Anne and Ted. Fu
 NEWMAN--Rosalind (Robbie). Died peacefully at home on June 3 after a brave battle with leukemia. A former Pan American airlines purser, she is survived by Fredric, her husband of 48 wonderful years; beloved children Amanda Crutcher (David) and William (Susan), and cherished grandchildren Jo
 TRAGER--Marlene M. 58, of East Brunswick, died on Saturday, June 3, 2006 after a long hard fought battle with cancer. Wife and best friend of Howard. Mother of Keith and Cathy Stoler, David and Samantha Stoler and David and Scott Trager. Sister of Richard & Marlene Fromme. Grandmother of Ri
 Carlene R. Lewis, a Houston lawyer whose early suspicions about the safety of the pain reliever Vioxx put her in the forefront of what is now a wave of litigation against its maker, Merck, died Monday in Houston. She was 51. The cause was complications of ovarian cancer, according t
 ATANASIO -- Margaret T. ''Peg'' (nee McAloon), on June 6, 2006. In Breezy Point, formerly of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn and Boca Raton, FL. Passed away peacefully at her home six days after her 90th birthday, surrounded by her loving family. Peg is survived by Joseph F. Atanasio, M.D. and her lovi
 MACKSOUD -- Carmen B. Died on June 3 at Calvary Hospital, New York City. Carmen was born on July 28, 1914 in Milford, Pennsylvania. In 1941, she joined General Motors Corporation in New York City. In 1984 when she retired from General Motors as an employee at the mandatory retirement age, s
 NEWMAN--Rosalind (Robbie). Died peacefully at home on June 3 after a brave battle with leukemia. A former Pan American airlines purser, she is survived by Fredric, her husband of 48 wonderful years; beloved children Amanda Crutcher (David) and William (Susan), and cherished grandchildren Jo
 PURVIN--Anne. Died June5. Beloved aunt of Allen, David and Diane. Sister of the late Albert, Daughter of the late David and Evelyn. Loving, kind, and generous, she will be missed by many dear friends. Donations: Summer Camp program, Vanderbilt YMCA, 22 East 47 Street, NYC 10017, or Jacob Pe
 SOKOL--Margaret. The Advisory Council of the Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, Cornell University, deeply mourns the passing of Margaret Sokol, a distinguished collector, donor, and friend. A lover of art, both Asian and western, Mrs. Sokol was a dedicated museum docent, profoundly interest
 Leslie Hansen Kopp, a dance and music archivist, died on May 27 in Manhattan. She was 53. The cause was breast cancer, said George Boziwick, a friend and the chief of the music division at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center. Born in Newport
 EDELSTEIN--Ruth (Schnitzer). Age 82, on June 8, 2006, Rye, NY. Wife of the late Alfred Edelstein; mother of Richard, Charles (Tuck) and Laura Kinyon; grandmother of Asher and Miles. Ruth grew up in New Rochelle and moved to Harrison with Alfred where they raised their family. In recent year
 JOHNSON--Edna. Died on June 6, 2006 in Glendale, Queens. Surviving are her sons Fred Cushmore, Raymond Johnson and Roger Johnson and daughter Jill Nord. Grandmother of 11 and greatgrandmother of 17. Loved and deeply missed.       
 ANDERSON--Martha J. , of Greenport, NY (formerly of Bridgehampton), died peacefully at the age of 87 on 1 June. She is survived by her husband Joseph Anderson, sister Katherine Macy, nieces Victoria Macy, Mary Macy, Christina Macy and her husband Taylor Branch and their children Macy and Fr
 ESCHER--Margaret, Arm strong Brockie. A life long resident of Englewood, NJ, died peacefully on June 3rd 2006, in Jacksonville, FL. Born on Aug. 1st, 1918, in Englewood, she graduated from Dwight School for Girl's , and attended Smith College, as a member of the Class of 1940. With her belo
 FISCHBARG--Zulema, MD. On June 4th in Buenos Aires, of acute leukemia. Her husband Jorge, sons Gabriel and Victor, daughter-in-law Jill, grandson David, relatives, friends and colleagues will cherish the memory of who was in life an inexhaustible source of humor, inspiration, energy and sol
 SOKOL--Margaret McCor mack. 90, Sunday, June 4, 2006 in NYC after a short illness. Services private. $(6$)SOKOL--Margaret. A charming and discerning benefactor whose generosity was key to the development of structural DNA nanotechnology. Nadrian C. Seeman $(6$)SOKOL--Margare
 VILLENCY--Ruth, on June 10, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Maurice. Devoted mother of Roy and Linda Neuberger and Bob and Rowann Villency. Dear grandmother of Juliet and Osher Jungreis, Susan and Shlomo Lancry, Aharon and Ariel Neuberger, Miriam and Alvin Hess, Nechama and Yaakov Slatus, Ca
 Flora Gill Jacobs, an internationally recognized authority on dollhouses who spent her adult life blissfully awash in minutiae, including tiny, lavishly appointed mansions and an ornate Mexican villa that came with its own chapel (very small priest included), died on May 31 in Washington. S
 BREGER--Anita (nee Blankfein). Of Aventura, FL. Beloved daughter and sister. Loving and devoted mother of Bruce and Kenneth. True to herself always. There will never ever be another you.       
 ENG--Suzanne nee Reardon, passed away peacefully on June 9, 2006 at age 59 after a 30 year valiant struggle with multiple sclerosis. Her husband Jimmy Eng and two children Jimmy Jr. and Michele sustained her in the long illness with a love and care rarely seen and they serve as an inspirati
 ROSSITER--Frances Allen: on May 17, 2006, Age 98, died peacefully at Fox Hill Village Westwood, MA. Formerly of Huntington, L.I., widow of the late Arthur W. Rossiter, Jr. Survived by sons, Edward, Allen, and Wickes and their wives, nine grandchildren and six great grandchildren. Private se
 TAUB -SandyYou fought valiantly for so long. May you now rest eternally in peace. Our deepest sympathy to Orlean, Joe and the Entire Taub family. --Sheila, David, Natasha and Marc. $(6$)TAUB--Sandra. On Saturday, June 10, 2006, of New York City. Cherished daughter of Arlene and Jose
 ENG--Suzanne nee Reardon, passed away peacefully on June 9, 2006 at age 59 after a 30 year valiant struggle with multiple sclerosis. Her husband Jimmy Eng and two children Jimmy Jr. and Michele sustained her in the long illness with a love and care rarely seen and they serve as an inspirati
 FEEN--Rosalie D., on June 10, 2006. Cherished wife of Eugene and beloved mother of Susan and David. Grandmother of Allyson and sister of Marion. She will live with us forever. Funeral service at Schwartz Brothers Chapel, 1 PM, Wednesday, June 14.       
 KAFKA--Rita. Of Washington, DC, originally from Prague. A devoted and beloved wife, mother, grandmother, sister, aunt and friend, on Tuesday, June 6, 2006. Survived by her loving husband Alexandre Kafka; daughters, Doris (Robert) and Barbara (Samir); grandchildren, Nicholas, Lucas, Sophie, 
 RUDOFF--Shaindy. The Yeshiva University family laments the passing of a woman of great personal and academic achievement, who bravely battled severe illness, and was deeply admired by all who knew her. She was the beloved daughter of YU Guardians, Hedda and Sheldon Rudoff; the cherished sis
 WALLACE--Marcia (neeToporek). June 11, 2006, beloved wife of Justin, mother of Erika Kors and Nina Wallace; and grandmother of Samantha, Brian, Samuel and Emma. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date. The family respectfully requests that contributions in her memory be made to The 
 BANHAM--Judith. On June 11, 2006 of New York City and formerly Floral Park. Beloved sister of Mary Ballard, Jeanne Aller and Michael Bailey. Loving sister-in-law of Anne, Mike and JC. Dear daughter of the late A. Lorraine and Barry O. Bailey. Cherished aunt of Megan, Katherine, Mary Kate an
 COLLEN--Adele (nee Weiner). Cherished mother of Beth (Robert) Entratter of Highland Park, IL. Adored grandmother of Jeffrey (Valerie) Entratter and Felice Entratter. Great-grandmother of Stephanie, Arthur and Alex Entratter and Daniel Plain. Memorials in her memory to The American Heart Ass
 DOWD--Margaret E., (nee Slattery), 67, on June 12, of Brooklyn Heights, Remsenburg and Hutchinson Island. Beloved wife of the Hon. Joseph J. Dowd. Dearest friend and mentor of John & Patrick McConnell. Loving grandmother of Michael, Patrick and Daniel. A woman of unsurpassed wisdom, grace a
 FEEN--Rosalie D., on June 10, 2006. Cherished wife of Eugene and beloved mother of Susan and David. Grandmother of Allyson and sister of Marion. She will live with us forever. Funeral service today, 1 PM at Schwartz Bros Chapel, Forest Hills, NY.       
 LINSKY--Joan Laura. Beloved wife of the late Alexander Jaskewicz died peacefully on June 13 after a long illness. An avid conversationalist and superb hostess she was admired and loved by her many friends. Also survived by her sister Patricia Linsky of San Diego, CA. Visitation Thursday 2-4
 SHAYNE--Theresa Deerson, born April 8, 1926, left us on June 7, 2006 after a courageous 16 year fight against Parkinson's. She enriched our lives beyond measure with her charm, beauty, artistry, intelligence, love and indomitable spirit. Leonard, William, Caren, Michael and Jeffrey Shayne C
 WEISSMAN--Blanche (Nee Talansky). Died Thursday June 8th, 2006. Beloved wife of Robert for 581/2 years. She leaves two children: Linda and Mark. Grandsons: Dov, Elaad and Jeremy, Corey. Donations to Hospice Care Network. Information: Sinai Chapels 718-445-0300.       
 YINKEY--Millicent Barham, born April 6th, 1915 in Los Angeles, CA, died peacefully at home June 11th, 2006 in Stonington, CT. Wife of the late Arden Yinkey, Jr. She is survived by her children Charles Barham Yinkey (Edith) of Hyattsville, MD, Anne Yinkey Helm (Harold) of Louisville, KY, Eli
 Gloria Jones, whose marriage to the author James Jones placed her at the center of a postwar literary and social world in Paris and the Hamptons and whose own life became the basis of a novel and a movie, died on Friday at her home in Sagaponack, N.Y. She was 78. The cause was a hea
 BANHAM--Judith. On June 11, 2006 of New York City and formerly Floral Park. Beloved sister of Mary Ballard, Jeanne Aller and Michael Bailey. Loving sister-in-law of Anne, Mike and JC. Dear daughter of the late A. Lorraine and Barry O. Bailey. Cherished aunt of Megan, Katherine, Mary Kate an
 GOLDSTEIN--Patti. Author of the book Creature Comforts, a biography of the chief of night emergency at the Animal Medical Center in New York, publicist for CBS and NBC, and writer for numerous national publications, died Friday night, June 9, 2006 at her home in Bridgehampton, NY. She was 7
 MOSS --Tova Ronni, Devoted wife of the late Herman ''Hy'', proud mother of Dan & daughter-in-law Sandy Divack Moss, loving grandmother of Rosine & Tobias, caring sister of Isaac Rinkewich & Sara Goldstein. You nourished us with food for the mind, body & soul. Funeral service on Friday, June
 SIKDAR--Piyali. We mourn the untimely and unexpected passing of Piyali Sikdar, a Senior Manager with our firm. She was an important part of our organization, acting as a mentor and friend to so many. Our deepest sympathies and prayers go out to her parents, family and friends at this time o
 VILLENCY--Ruth. Friends of Akim mourn the loss of a ''Woman of Valor''. Past president of Akim Palm Beach. Heartfelt sympathy to her family. Elayne Flamm, Nat'l Chair; Jim Knee, Exec. Dir.       
 WEISSMAN--Blanche (Nee Talansky). Died Thursday June 8th, 2006. Beloved wife of Robert for 581/2 years. She leaves two children: Linda and Mark. Grandsons: Dov, Elaad and Jeremy, Corey. Donations to Hospice Care Network. Information: Sinai Chapels 718-445-0300.       
 WYNKOOP--Nancy. February 24, 1925, died June 7, 2006 in Woodstock, VT. She was born Nancy Helen Marie Leeds in New York City on February 24, 1925, the daughter of William Batemen Leeds, Jr. and Princess Xenia Georgievna of Russia. Through her mother, she was a member of the Romanov dynasty 
 YINKEY--Millicent Barham, born April 6th, 1915 in Los Angeles, CA, died peacefully at home June 11th, 2006 in Stonington, CT. Wife of the late Arden Yinkey, Jr. She is survived by her children Charles Barham Yinkey (Edith) of Hyattsville, MD, Anne Yinkey Helm (Harold) of Louisville, KY, Eli
 YORK--Rose E., 92, of New York, on June 14, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Manny and mother of Alen, Judd and Jesse. Loving grandmother of Kevin, Gregory, Jay, Barri and Elizabeth. Known and admired throughout the home fashions industry as an innovator and pioneer. She was one of the indust
 BANHAM--Judith A. The Sunshine Group mourns the loss of a dearly loved and highly respected member of our family, Judith A. Banham. A founding member of The Sunshine Group, Judy's leadership, wisdom and creativity, over 16 years, inspired and guided the development of properties that re-sha
 BARKER--Chrissie Head of communications for JWT in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, passed away Friday, June 9, after a brave battle against cancer. Over more than a decade at JWT, Chrissie worked passionately and tirelessly to ensure that the agency, its leadership and its work were po
 COHEN--Sylvia. 84, of Pembroke Pines, FL, formerly of New York, NY, passed away on June 13, 2006. She is survived by her loving sons: Dr. Kenneth Cohen (Sara), Alan Cohen (Diane); cherished granddaughters: Alyssa and Zoe. Sylvia was a former owner of Cohen's Avenue B. Dress Shop in New York
 DIEHL--Carolyn, M.D. (Carolyn Rubin), Director of Development and Public Affairs at The Rogosin Institute, died on June 14, 2006. Dr. Diehl embodied the spirit of The Rogosin Institute, where she directed the fundraising and public affairs office for 20 years. A caring and ceaselessly energ
 GUTTENBERG--Adele. The Board of Directors and staff of the JCC on the Palisades are greatly saddened by the passing of Adele Guttenberg, a beloved friend and supporter, who was devoted to helping those faced with physical challenges. Adele and her husband Bill established the Chuck Guttenbe
 MOSS--Tova Ronni. The Kaufman Center mourns the loss of our great friend, a unique and vibrant force in Jewish culture. Her dynamic creativity will be greatly missed. Lydia Kontos, Exec Dir Sean Hartley, Director, Theater Program Phyllis Feder, Chair       
 YORK--Rose. Rosie, mydearest, sweetest friend, godmother to my Caron, you'll be in my heart forever. Gale YORK--Rose E., 92, of New York, on June 14, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Manny and mother of Alen, Judd and Jesse. Loving grandmother of Kevin, Gregory, Jay, Barri and Elizabe
 ASCHKENASY--Dorothy J. The Event Associates family mourns the loss of our Dotty. Warm, sweet, funny, wise and whip-smart, she was devoted to her clients, all of whom became her friends. We were her extended family and there will always be a place at any table we set reserved for her.       
 Barbara Epstein, a founder and co-editor of The New York Review of Books and a figure at the center of New York literary life for decades, died yesterday in the apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in which she had lived for more than 50 years. She was 77. The cause was lun
 DIEHL--Carolyn, M.D. (Carolyn Rubin), Director of Development and Public Affairs at The Rogosin Institute, died on June 14, 2006. Dr. Diehl embodied the spirit of The Rogosin Institute, where she directed the fundraising and public affairs office for 20 years. A caring and ceaselessly energ
 GUTTENBERG -- Adele Basch. Of Tenafly, New Jersey on June 15, 2006. In 1978, she with four other parents of developmentally - disabled children formed Spectrum for the Living , as an organization to provide housing, educationand adult training for the multiple-handicapped, developmentally d
 MONTI--Tita. It is with great sadness that we announce the death of Tita Monti. Mrs. Monti, 85, a resident of Sands Point, NY, for more than 45 years, was an extraordinary woman with a generous heart and determination who revolutionized cancer care on Long Island. Just a few days after the 
 RUBIN--Carolyn Diehl. Her passion and her grace were an inspiration to all who knew her. Sylvan League       
 SPANBOCK--Jane. We are saddened by her passing and wish to offer our condolences to her mother Lynne, brother Richard and nieces Emily, Bari and nephew Alex. Her sense of humor filled with wit, her compassion for others and her infectious smile lighting up a room are the memories we shall a
 BANHAM--Judith A. The Sunshine Group mourns the loss of a dearly loved and highly respected member of our family, Judith A. Banham. A founding member of The Sunshine Group, Judy's lead ership, wisdom and creativity, over 16 years, inspired and guided the development of properties that re-sh
 BERNS - Sabine. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President       
 DIEHL--Carolyn, M.D. (Carolyn Rubin), Director of Development and Public Affairs at The Rogosin Institute, died on June 14, 2006. Dr. Diehl embodied the spirit of The Rogosin Institute, where she directed the fundraising and public affairs office for 20 years. A caring and ceaselessly energ
 KING--Judith Ann. Beloved wife of Frederick L. King, loving mother of Michele Denise King and Katiti King. Cherished grandmother of Schuylar Frederique and Tristan Thomas Lacey. A celebration of her life will be held at a later date.       
 RUBIN--Carolyn Diehl. Her passion and her grace were an inspiration to all who knew her. Sylvan League       
 SHAW--Bella E. August 10, 1911-June 17, 2006. Beloved mother, beloved grandmother. May her memory be for a blessing. From Her Family       
 SPANBOCK--Jane. Beloved daughter of Lynne and the late Bennett. Loving sister of Richard and the late Paul. Services Monday, 12:30 PM, from Temple Sinai of Roslyn, 425 Roslyn Road, Roslyn Heights, LI. $(6$)SPANBOCK--Jane. We are saddened by her passing and wish to offer our condolen
 STREETER--Frank S. 88, on June 12, 2006, after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Nancy Angell Streeter. Devoted father of Ellen S. Rhodes (Craig), Ruth Streeter (John), and Meg Streeter Lauck (Dan). Cherished grandfather of nine, great grandfather of five. Memorial Service Tuesday June 20
 WHEELER--Anne Carroll. On May 21, 2006, of Elizabeth, NJ, in her 102nd year. Wife of the late Henry Lamont Wheeler Jr.; mother of Henry L. Wheeler III, Anne Harrison Buchanan and Elizabeth Cromwell L'Hommedieu. Also survived by seven grandchildren and fifteen great-grandchildren. A memorial
 FIELDS - Eleanor. Passed away on June 17, 2006, at the age of 92. Ellie was a woman of great vitality, intelligence and accomplishment. She was a guiding force in many worthy causes, travelled the world, and was adored by her family and friends. Survived by brother Joel Williams, son Jack a
 MORRIS--Florence. Passed away peacefully, Friday, June 16, at home, just short of her 92nd birthday. Devoted widow of J. Lincoln Morris (Pud), dear sister of Richard Carlton, sister-in-law of Blossom Carlton, caring aunt of Joyce and Howard Jaffe, Ralph and Susie Carlton, Ken Carlton and Ka
 OLSHANSKY--Joan Rosmarin. Resident of Great Barrington, MA, formerly of New Rochelle and Manhattan, on June 16, 2006, surrounded by family. Survived by her husband of 54 years, Mark Olshansky, her children Neil and Karen Olshansky, Stephen Olshansky and Miranda and Jeff Levin, her granddaug
 SMITH--Marion J. E. In her 102nd year, on June 17, 2006, of Roslyn Heights, NY. Beloved sister of Helen Emmerich and aunt and great-aunt to many. Lifelong member and past president of the Soroptimist International Club of New York. Marion also founded and served as president for 35 years of
 DEMUTH--Richard Holzman, 95, of Bethesda, M.D. June 14,2006. Loving husband of Eunice (Burdick) Demuth, Father of Nancy Thompson and her husband Wade of Lexington, MA., grandfather of Andrew Thompson of Somerville, MA. and Mark Thompson of Lexington, MA. Devoted brother of Eleanor Romberg o
 FRANC--Helen M. Died peacefully on June 14 at the age of 98. Worked for the Museum of Modern Art as an Editorial Assistant until her reitrement in 1972. Published extensively in the art world, and is best known for ''An Invitation to See'' which is still used as a guide to the works of MOMA
 HOLLAND--Marie Dolores Ianni. Born in New York, NY in 1939, passed peacefully from this life at the Holland Farm in Amenia, NY on June 17 after a brief, but intense struggle with cancer. Known within her community--and far beyond--for her tireless energy, community service, and great sense 
 LANDAU -Gertrude The New York Citizens' Committee on Aging mourns the passing of its former chairperson. She was a pioneer in the field of services to older people. Her contributions to social welfare covered more than six decades. Peter Gubernick, President $(6$)LANDAU--Gertrude. Peacefull
 MORRIS--Florence. Passed away peacefully, Friday, June 16, at home, just short of her 92nd birthday. Devoted widow of J. Lincoln Morris (Pud), dear sister of Richard Carlton, sister-in-law of Blossom Carlton, caring aunt of Joyce and Howard Jaffe, Ralph and Susie Carlton, Ken Carlton and Ka
 ROSSMAN--Ilse. Age 89, died on June 18, 2006 after a long illness. Born in Mannheim, Germany and emigrating to New York in 1938, she lived a life of profound dignity and dedication. She was predeceased by her loving husband, Karl Rossman, and her adored brother, Hans Wirth. She will be reme
 SILVER--Gloria B., died on June 18, 2006 in Manhattan at her home surrounded by her family. She is survived by her long-time companion Ed Wolk, her daughter, Amy Khoudari, and son, John, he granddaughter, Laura Khoudari and her daughterin-law, Fran Greenstein and grandson - in - law, David 
 SPANBOCK--Jane. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White, Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 KETELS--Antoinette (nee Staaterman) 88, of Washington, D.C., formerly of Montvale, NJ and Berkeley Township, NJ, died Thursday, June 15th at The National Lutheran Home in Rockville, Maryland. Mrs. Ketels, the daughter of Frederick Staaterman and Frieda Schoene Staaterman, was born in New Yo
 PLASKA--Mary Catherine.6/20/05. Wonderful wife and friend, she is missed daily and alive in my heart. Love, Patrick       
 FREED--Cecelia T. Larchmont, NY. Died peacefully in her 91st year, June 17, 2006. Loved by all who knew her.       
 LANDAU--Gertrude. The Board of Directors of VASCA mourns the death of its first program director. She was a tireless advocate for older adult services, especially in the area of senior camping. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family.       
 SILVER--Gloria B., died on June 18, 2006 in Manhattan at her home surrounded by her family. She is survived by her long-time companion Ed Wolk, her daughter, Amy Khoudari, and son, John, he granddaughter, Laura Khoudari and her daughterin-law, Fran Greenstein and grandson - in - law, David 
 FINSTON--Beth Waters. Cooney/Waters Group mourns the loss of our cofounder, Beth Waters. Beth was remarkable for her intelligence, conviction and sheer force of will. She refused to believe there was a problem that could not be solved, never saw a challenge she declined to take on. She foun
 Evelyn Dubrow, organized labor's most prominent lobbyist at the time of its greatest power in her four decades with the nation's largest apparel union, died on Tuesday in Washington. Family members said she was 95. She died at George Washington Hospital after several days in a coma,
 BAI--Susan G. A true real estate professional, a valued colleague, a trusted friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family & friends. Glenwood Management       
 BURLINGHAM--Adair M., 72. A Cambridge chef and writer, died Tuesday, June 13, of complications from Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP), a rare neurologicaldisease. Born in New Orleans, she graduated from the Baldwin School in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania and entered Radcliffe College at 16, gr
 CENTER--Thelma. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our long time member, Thelma Center. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Nina Koppelman, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 DUBROW--Evelyn (''Evy''). A passionate and beloved defender of workers' causes, died June 20, 2006 in Washington DC. The members and directors of the 21st Century ILGWU Heritage Fund are deeply saddened by Evy's passing. Evy Dubrow was the labor movement's most wellknown and tenacious lobby
 EPSTEIN--Barbara. The New York Review of Books mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague Barbara Epstein on June 16, from cancer. Barbara, co-founder and co-editor of The New York Review, was at her desk working on the paper, as she had for the past 43 years, as recently as two weeks ago. S
 SILVER--Gloria B., died on June 18, 2006 in Manhattan at her home surrounded by her family. She is survived by her long-time companion Ed Wolk, her daughter, Amy Khoudari, and son, John, he granddaughter, Laura Khoudari and her daughterin-law, Fran Greenstein and grandson - in - law, David 
 WEINBERG--Sarah. We mourn the loss of our esteeemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr .Rabbi Jerome S. Seiler, M.D., Pres.       
 FINSTON--Beth Waters. Cooney/Waters Group mourns the loss of our cofounder, Beth Waters. Beth was remarkable for her intelligence, conviction and sheer force of will. She refused to believe there was a problem that could not be solved, never saw a challenge she declined to take on. She foun
 BECKER--Norma. Teacher, civil rights activist, and peace organizer, died June 17, aged 76. A founder of the Fifth Avenue Viet Nam Peace Parade Committee, which drew tens of thousands to protest the Viet Nam War, a founder of Mobilization for Survival , and Chair of the War Resisters League 
 CASEY--Mildred E. ,87, of heart failure, at Vassar Brothers Medical Center, Poughkeepsie, NY, on June 21st. She passed peacefully surrounded by her family. Wife of sound system pioneer, Edward P. Casey, survived by her brother, John Barris, five children, Ed, Bob, Bill, Mary, Judy, seven gr
 DANIEL--Ruth, passed away on June 22, 2006, in Sarasota, Fl at age 83. Ruth was known for fierce determination and tenaciousness in all aspects of her life. Following Hitler's 1933 boycott of Jewish MDs, Dr. Bruno Feilchenfeld and his family made aliyah from Berlin to Tel-Aviv, then a Jewis
 DUBROW--Evelyn. The officers, staff, members and retirees of the NY Metro Area Joint Board UNITE HERE remember Evy's exceptional contributions in fighting for economic and social justice and dignity for garment workers in the ILGWU. Evy's tenacity, charm and integrity embodied the spirit of
 FEILER - LEHRMAN - Regina. Tel Aviv University and its American Council deeply mourns the passing of Regina Feiler-Lehrman, mother of Jack Feiler, member of the TAUAC Board of Directors. Our sincere condolences to Jack and his family. Prof. Itamar Rabinovich, President, TAU Robert M. Schray
 SMOKE--Esther, on June 19. An active cooperator, poet and a model of graceful aging whose love of Three Arrows Cooperative Society was reflected in her energy and interest in all aspects of our collective life. She will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathy goes to her family.       
 ANGLISANO--Suzanne (nee Fridman), born Paris, France, Oct. 21, 1932, died suddenly June 15, 2006. Loving mother of Allen, Laura (Noah), Felicia (Ken); proud grandmother of Craig, Phillip, Paul, Danielle, Doron, Simone and Alex; great-grandmother of Isahai; devoted sister of Charles and Barb
 SOMERFIELD--Frances, 93. Beloved wife of Milton for 70 years and loving mother of Barry. Loved dearly by all her family.       
 Virginia K. Rosenbaum, a prominent corporate research analyst and the widow of David E. Rosenbaum, a retired New York Times reporter who was fatally beaten in January, died yesterday at her home in Washington. She was 63. Her daughter, Dorothy, said the cause was colon cancer.      
 JAHODA--Maria C. Died June 16, 2006 at her home in NYC after a brief illness. Born in Vienna on November 13, 1922, she moved permanently to the U.S. in the early 1980's. Mirli was a font of joy and good will to many and she will be deeply missed. A memorial service will be held in NYC at a 
 REISLEY--Rosalyn. Ronny died unexpectedly after a brief illness on June 22, 2006. Wife and best friend of Roland; loving mother of Robert; mother-in-law of Lynne and adoring grandmother of Alex and Danielle. She was a lifetime learner, a fabulous cook, a responsible citizen, an ardent craft
 STIEFEL--Betty.We miss you deeply. So much love. Lauren, Stewart and Ethan $(6$)GROSSMAN--William I., M.D Profound condolences to Chanie Grossman and family on the loss of her husband, a great man who was a mentor and friend of many years of happy association. Dr. and Mrs. Frank B. Finkelst
 BECKER--Norma. We former staff members of the 5th Ave Vietnam Peace Parade Committee mourn the death on June 17 of Norma Becker, unsung hero of the Anti-Vietnam War movement. Others spoke or wrote; Norma acted. She was the indispensable dynamo of American dissent.Alan Barnes, Robert Eberwei
 COHEN--Frances, a resident of Boca Raton for over 30 years died Thursday June 22, 2006 at the age of 89. Born Frances Dilbert, she was the wife of the late Solon Cohen and the mother of the late Roy Cohen. Frances is survived by her children, Laurie and Bruce Cohen and her grandchildren, Ni
 DANIEL--Ruth. The World Union for Progressive Judaism notes with profound sadness the passing of Ruth Daniel, our beloved friend and longtime leader, past vice president and treasurer. Her vision, passion and support were invaluable in contributing to the growth and strengthening of Progres
 DePINNA -- Marcia Pincus. Died on June 24, 2006. She was the loving wife of the late George Leo DePinna, beloved mother of Geoffrey and Bernadette DePinna, and Jane and Stanley H. Blum. Adoring grandmother of Robyn, Caryn, Margot and Gregory. Funeral services will be held on Monday, June 26
 DULMAN--Dorothy, age 77, loving wife of the late Howard Dulman, mother of David and Laura Dulman, Abby and Barry Simon, Melissa and Troy Hangen, passed away June 23, 2006 in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida. Adored Nanny to Aaron, Rebecca, Annie, Michael, Spencer, Julie and Claudia. Interment at
 DUNWORTH -- Mary Violet Hegarty, 89, resident of Ocean Beach, NY and Cleveland Heights, OH died peacefully in her sleep on June 22, 2006 at her home on Fire Island. Born in NYC June 1, 1917 to Violet Gunigal Hegarty and Joseph Hegarty. Graduate of Hunter College. Widow of the Thomas Dunwort
 HAIRSTON--Enid Carey. 1924-2006. Daughter of prominent lawyer and District Attorney Richard E. Carey and school teacher Homozelle W. Carey of NYC, passed on June 16. A Psychiatric Social Worker, Supervisor and Program Analyst in the Medicare and Medicaid Programs for the Department of Healt
 HIRSHFIELD - Susan, 60, passed away on Friday, June 23rd, in her Manhattan apartment. Susan spent two decades as an actress, during which she stared as Zenobia, in an Off-Broadway production of ''Ethan Frome.'' She later founded Quoi De Neuf, a fine jewelry business whose pieces grace many 
 JACKSON--Ernest. On June 2. Husband of Linda Kovach. Father of Garrick Jackson of Maitland, FL, granddaughter Cheree Rumley Miawama, her daughter Zahra of Alpharetta, GA, great-grandson, Roman Francis of PA. A jazz memorial service will be held at St. Peter's Church, corner of 54th and Lexi
 JAHODA--Maria C. Died June 16, 2006 at her home in NYC after a brief illness. Born in Vienna on November 13, 1922, she moved permanently to the U.S. in the early 1980's. Mirli was a font of joy and good will to many and she will be deeply missed. A memorial service will be held in NYC at a 
 KOSSOVER - Ruth. Passed away at home surrounded by her loved ones. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Devoted mother of Steven and Andrew. Cherished grandmother of Noah, Lindsey, Jacqueline, Lauren and Jared. Former President of Julia Bernstein League of Free Nurses, former Board member of Pa
 PALMER--Gloria Elhat. 78, of Shushan, NY, died peacefully at her home Wednesday, June 21, 2006 after a long, courageous battle with cancer. She was the loving wife of James Wesley Palmer, who died June 14, 2004. Born January 8, 1928 in Brooklyn NY, she was the daughter of Mary Adams and Tho
 REISLEY--Rosalyn. Ronny died unexpectedly after a brief illness on June 22, 2006. Wife and best friend of Roland; loving mother of Robert; mother-in-law of Lynne and adoring grandmother of Alex and Danielle. She was a lifetime learner, a fabulous cook, a responsible citizen, an ardent craft
 ROSS--Elsa May. Memorial service for Elsa May Ross, 74, of Deltona, Florida, who passed away on Wednesday, June 21 will be held on Friday, June 30 at 10:00 A.M. at the St. Clare Catholic Church in Deltona. Mrs. Ross was born in Liverpool, England and moved to Deltona in 1997 from Hoboken, N
 WEINBERG--Emmeline Epstein. ''Em'' of Pipersville PA, formerly of New York, NY, died Thursday, May 4, 2006 after a protracted illness. She was 92. Beloved wife of the late Eugene Weinberg. Mother of Michael and the late Alex. Grandmother of Mia Weinberg Clinton and the late Michael Weinberg
 Mary Martin McLaughlin, an internationally renowned scholar of the Middle Ages who spent the last four decades working almost entirely outside the academy, died on June 8 at her home in Millbrook, N.Y. She was 87. The cause was cancer, her niece Kathleen Bayard Derringer said.      
 ARONSON--Muriel C. Died peacefully at her home on June 24, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Devoted mother of Paul and motherin-law of Deborah. Grandmother of Daniel, and Julie and Steven Kronowitz. Greatgrandmother of Matthew. Service Monday, 11 am, at Cedar Park Cemetery, NJ.       
 BROWNE--Jean Mason, age 88, died on June 21, 2006, in Bellevue, Washington. Jean and her late husband, Robert Prall Browne, were longtime residents of Garden City, New York, as well as Marietta, Georgia. A descendent of both Pierre Van Cortlandt, the Van Cortlandt Manor, Croton - on - Hudso
 DePINNA -- Marcia Pincus. Died on June 24, 2006. She was the loving wife of the late George Leo DePinna, beloved mother of Geoffrey and Bernadette DePinna, and Jane and Stanley H. Blum. Adoring grandmother of Robyn, Caryn, Margot and Gregory. Funeral services will be held on Monday, June 26
 HIRSHFIELD - Susan, 60, passed away on Friday, June 23rd, in her Manhattan apartment. Susan spent two decades as an actress, during which she stared as Zenobia, in an Off-Broadway production of ''Ethan Frome.'' She later founded Quoi De Neuf, a fine jewelry business whose pieces grace many 
 KETCHAM--Laurie Camden. 51, of Jamestown, RI, died Sunday, June 18, of ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease). She was the beloved daughter of the late James B. and Ira D. Ketcham. A longtime resident of Manhattan, Laurie was the President and owner of Laurie C. Ketcham, a photographer's representative
 SOSNOW--Edith. 98, died on June 12, 2006. Born Newark, NJ. Her spirit touched the hearts of many. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel Sosnow. Loving mother of daughter Murial and Yale, son Lawrence and Ellen, devoted grandmother of David, Jeffrey, Peter, Elizabeth, Meg and Avi. Great-grandmoth
 YANEK--Dona Julia Victoria Albota Sands. 87, passed after a heart attack in her sleep on June 22, 2006. Julia married the late Henry Charles Yanek on June 21, 1942. After a long career as a cosmotologist, she retired to San Luis Obispo (SLO). Burial will be at Mount St. Mary's Cemetery, Flu
 Norma Becker, a leading organizer of protests against the Vietnam War as well as the noted 1982 nuclear disarmament march into Central Park, died on June 17 at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 76. The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter, Diane Tosh. Ms. Becker, a 
 DEMPSEY--Patricia A., died peacefully at her home in New York City on June 25, 2006 surrounded by her family. She was predeceased by her loving husband, Louis F. Dempsey. Devoted mother of Maryann Sedlack (Jeff) of Cheshire, Connecticut, Patsy Hammond (Bill) of Summit, New Jersey, Kathleen 
 MURPHY--Julie. With heartfelt sorrow, Horace Mann School mourns the untimely passing of Julie Murphy '86, beloved daughter of John and Noreen Murphy, Executive Assistant to Head of School Dr. Thomas Kelly, and devoted and adored sister of Denise Regan '84, and Melissa Parento '90, Director 
 Sophie Maslow, a choreographer who drew on the populist sympathies of Woody Guthrie, Carl Sandburg, Duke Ellington and others to create dances about various sides of American life, from jazz to the Dust Bowl, died on Sunday in Manhattan. She was 95. Her death was confirmed by her da
 Anna Castelli Ferrieri, a pioneering architect associated with the postwar period of Italian modern design, known for its embrace of technological innovation and audacious style, died on Thursday at her home in Milan. She was 87. The cause was complications from lung disease, said a
 EVANS--Shirley, born March 11th, 1929 in Brooklyn, NY. Beloved daughter of Mollie and Irving Hassuk, wife of Leo Evans, mother of Joel and Eve Evans, grandmother of Jarad and Spencer Evans, Dylan and Evan Liberman. She was a lover of life and laughter, family and friends, and will be missed
 GOODMAN--Lorraine R., 78. Once of Brooklyn and Sleepy Hollow, NY and Cambridge, Massachusetts, died June 16 at her Bedford, MA home with her husband, William, her children, Jonas and Sara, and her niece, Laurie Miller, at her side. Mother, grandmother of Alex and Ben, sister of Blossom and 
 LEVY--Rena. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 LINS--Marion Stewart, 88, wife of the late John P. Lins, died June 24, 2006 in Jennersville, PA. She is survived by her children, Louise Chinn Ducas, Andrew Lins, Susan Jackson, four grandchildren and her sisters, Kate Kuehn, and Joan Ruvane. She was a life-long resident of New York City, a
 LUERSSEN--Amy. The Trump family mourns the passing of our beloved Amy, a trusted and loyal friend and employee for over 65 years. A great lady we will never forget, she will surely be missed by all of us whose lives she touched. The Trump Family       
 SCULTHORPE--Mary Catherine (also known as Kaye Russell) of New York City, Water Mill, NY, and County Clare, Ireland died peacefully at her Manhattan home on June 27, 2006. Beloved wife of Robert Sculthorpe, loving mother to Patrick M. Wall, Jr. and his wife Maria of New York City. Proud and
 SILVER--Sadye, devoted wife of the late Morris Silver, loving mother of Carole and Ronald Korn, dedicated grandmother of Douglas and Betsy Korn, Karen and Brendan Herron, Steven and Alissa Korn, and adoring great grandmother of eight, passed away peacefully on June 27, 2006 in Boca Raton, F
 CARON--Diana Welwood, died unexpectedly on June 21st, 2006 at her home in Stuart, FL. Born in NY, Diana attended Ms. Hewitt's classes and Vassar College before moving to New Canaan with her young family. She was an active and engaged member of the community for over 30 years. Diana is survi
 Ressler--Elizabeth S. Of Quogue, New York died on June 26 after a long battle with lung cancer. She was born in Englewood, New Jersey on April 2, 1920, the daughter of Helen and Oswald Kirkby. She grew up in Englewood and traveled extensively with her parents. She graduated from Warrenton C
 DANIELI--Francesa. Mother, sister, daughter, friend, wife, and artist...we all lost a beautiful woman on the the evening of June 27. Francesca has shown remarkable grace, strength & dignity, having first faced cancer 22 years ago when diagnosed with Hodgkin's Lymphoma; then with breast canc
 GOLL--Elsie. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband, Abraham and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft P
 HUBIN--Dorothea (Dee) Ph.D 82, of Bradenton, FL, formerly of Teaneck, NJ and NYC, NY died June 25 of natural causes. After obtaining her BA, MA and Ph.D. Degrees in Sociology from New York University, she held positions at NYU and Fairleigh Dickinson University during a 30 year career. She 
 LINS--Marion Stewart, 88, wife of the late John P. Lins, died June 24, 2006 in Jennersville, PA. She is survived by her children, Louise Chinn Ducas, Andrew Lins, Susan Jackson, four grandchildren and her sisters, Kate Kuehn, and Joan Ruvane. She was a life-long resident of New York City, a
 LUERSSEN--Amy. The Trump family mourns the passing of our beloved Amy, a trusted and loyal friend and employee for over 65 years. A great lady we will never forget, she will surely be missed by all of us whose lives she touched. The Trump Family       
 MACKSOUD--Doris J., of Waterville, Maine (formerly of Mamaroneck, New York) died on June 23. Born Doris Deyhle March 15, 1924 in Buffalo, New York. Married George E. Macksoud in 1953 (died March 1993). She is survived by her daughter Marcia Parmenter of Aurora, Co, her sons Mark Macksoud an
 McDERMOTT--Kay, Age 67. NY Public library volunteer, Big Apple greeter, senior road runner, and many other selfless endeavors. A caring, generous, loving lady. A friend to all in need, a loss to her community and the many who loved her.       
 SWETZ--Elizabeth (Betty), died June 19th, 2006. Born September 11th, 1923 in Byesville, OH, she received her RN from the Cadet Nursing Corps and her BSN from Capital University, OH. In 1960 she moved to NYC, began working at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center until retirement in 1999. A l
 CARON--Diana Welwood died unexpectedly on June 21st, 2006 at her home in Stuart, FL. Born in NY, Diana attended Ms. Hewitt's classes and Vassar College before moving to New Canaan with her young family. She was an active and engaged member of the community for over 30 years. Diana is surviv
 RESSLER--Elizabeth S. Of Quogue, New York died on June 26 after a long battle with lung cancer. She was born in Englewood, New Jersey on April 2, 1920, the daughter of Helen and Oswald Kirkby. She grew up in Englewood and traveled extensively with her parents. She graduated from Warrenton C
 LINS--Marion Stewart, 88, wife of the late John P. Lins, died June 24, 2006 in Jennersville, PA. She is survived by her children, Louise Chinn Ducas, Andrew Lins, Susan Jackson, four grandchildren and her sisters, Kate Kuehn, and Joan Ruvane. She was a life-long resident of New York City, a
 MINTON - Susann. Artist, passed on Tuesday, June 27 in Manhattan after a brief illness. A Park Slope resident for 26 years, Susann was the daughter of the late Commander Hal Minton, U.S.N. and Gaynell Minton. Her early years as a Navy brat included life in the Dominican Republic and Hawaii,
 STERN--Enid Gardiner. Died on June 29 in her Manhattan residence, succumbing to lung cancer after a year of illness. A native New Yorker, she attended the High School of Music and Art and Hunter College. Upon graduation she became an illustrator for William Douglas McAdams, a pharmaceutical
