 ABADIE--MJ. Died Wednesday, September 13, 2006, in Nacogdoches, Texas. She authored and co - authored many published books, assisting with and designing The Mythic Image (1974) by Joseph Campbell, with whom she worked for many years. She met Mr. Campbell when she edited for Bollingen Press.
 BARATZ--Irene. Age 95, of Bridgeport, CT on September 11, 2006. Formerly of Riverdale, NY. Pre-deceased by beloved husband, Israel, in 1976. Loving mother of Edith Kreisman. Devoted grandmother of Rachelle Kreisman and Ira Kreisman. Adoring great-grandmother of Emmet Kreisman. She will be m
 DENHAM--Mary Orr Actress and author, died September 22, 2006 at age 94. She was preceded in death by her husband, Reginald Denham, with whom she collaborated on writing scripts for the theater, notably ''Wallflower'' which premiered on Broadway at the Cort Theater in 1944. She published man
 DUNHAM--Margaret (''Toddy''). On September 28, at age 98. Widow of the late C. Dary Dunham, M.D. She was graduated from Columbia Presbyterian Nursing School, 1935. Longtime member of Rusticus Garden Club where she served as artistic judge. Awarded the Garden Club of America Medal of Merit i
 HALL--Phyllis Tower 86. Died peacefully at home in Cartersville, GA September 25, 2006, after a long illness. Survivors include sons Kenneth (and wife, Lana) of Peru, MA and Norman of Seeley Lake, MT; daughters S. Jeanne Hall (and husband, Sherwin Kamin) of New York, NY; Bettilou Hall Shieh
 LONGACRE--Sarah, 58, died of cancer September 26th, in Manhattan. A painter, photographer, and editor, she spent a life-changing summer at Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture, and was a graduate of Bennington College and Yale Grad School. Her career included The SoHo News, Time Inc.,
 PRESCOTT--Lilias W. Died September 26, 2006, age 98. Beloved wife of the late Orville Prescott, daily literary critic of ''The New York Times'' for many years. She was past President of the New Canaan, CT Sewing Group, past Chairman of the Friends of the New York Philharmonic in New Canaan 
 ROBINTON--Madeline Russell on September 13 2006, at the age of 97. Wife of the late Hermann Robinton. Beloved Aunt of Anne Russell Sullivan, great-aunt of Kyle and Sean Sullivan. Professor Emeritus of History, Brooklyn College, from its formative period in 1931 to her retirement in 1976. Gr
 SCHNEIDER--Lillian. 95, formerly of Long Beach, NY, currently of New York City, NY and Boca Raton, FL passed away on Thursday, September 28, 2006. She will always be remembered by those near and dear to her. Her zest for living life to the fullest was immeasurable. She lived by the motto ''
 TIEFER--Rosalind Crost, 92, Meadowview, Mt. Vernon, NY, died September 28, 2006. Born to Brooklyn Jews of Dutch descent, graduated from Brooklyn College ('33), Juilliard, and Columbia Teachers' College. Rosalind won piano prizes and a Philharmonic scholarship, played in Simeon Bellison's Cl
 HIRSCHFELD--Phyllis D. Our special, forever friend, ''Dusty,'' whose love for life enhanced all those who were privileged to know her. Elaine and Al Corwin       
 KULUKUNDIS--Calliope M., 102 years old, died peacefully September 27 at her home in New York City. She was the widow of Manuel E. Kulukundis, the mother of M. Michael and George, the mother-inlaw of Tara, the grandmother of Eric, Cassandra, Manuel and Christopher and the great-grandmother o
 Padmini Ramachandran, a star of Indian films who later started an influential school of Indian classical dance in New Jersey, died on Sept. 25 in Chennai (formerly Madras), India. She was 74. The cause was a heart attack, according to hospital officials. Known for her beauty
 DOWD--Elizabeth D. (Davis), 63, of Scotch Plains, NJ, died October 1, 2006, at the Barbara E. Cheung Memorial Hospice in Edison, NJ. Received her nursing degree from Kings County Hospital; worked as a registered nurse for several New York State hospitals, more recently a school nurse for Am
 DURANT--Helen von Dongen, Bratteboro, VT--Helen von Dongen Durant, 97, a resident at Hilltop House in Brattleboro since 2002, died Thursday night, September 28, 2006 at the Thompson House Nursing Home on Maple Street, following a period of declining health. Mrs. Durant was born in Amsterdam
 KARTEN--Rachel. Born in Swirz, Poland October 21st, 1913 died peacefully at home Saturday, September 30. She came to the United States in 1947 after surviving the Holocaust in which her first child was killed. Rachel died in the presence of her children, Mark and Arlene. She was predeceased
 POLISH--Muriel Wallick, after a tenacious fight against cancer. The end came abruptly on September 30. Beloved wife of Jack, devoted mother of Beth and Nathaniel, dear sister of the late Ruth Wallick Lipson and Mel Wallick, loving mother-in-law of Philip Friedman and Ellen Schorr, adoring g
 DUCHESNE--Elizabeth Stack Elizabeth Stack Duchesne, 83, died Tuesday, September 19, 2006 at Riverview Medical Center, Red Bank, NJ. Born in Johnstown, PA. Bette was a long-time resident of New York City and Monmouth Beach, NJ. She worked for Ladies Home Journal and became Merchandising Dire
 KULUKUNDIS--Calliope M., 102 years old, died peacefully September 27 at her home in New York City. She was the widow of Manuel E. Kulukundis, the mother of M. Michael and George, the mother-inlaw of Tara, the grandmother of Eric, Cassandra, Manuel and Christopher and the great-grandmother o
 Isabel Bigley, who won a Tony award in 1951 playing Sarah Brown, the Salvation Army missionary who falls in love with a handsome gambler in the raucous Broadway hit ''Guys and Dolls,'' died Saturday in Los Angeles. She was 80, and lived in Los Angeles and Rancho Mirage, Calif. The c
 Marjorie G. Lewisohn, a Manhattan internist who was the first woman to be a trustee of Johns Hopkins University, died Sept. 16 in Manhattan. She was 87. Her death was announced by her sister Elizabeth L. Eisenstein of Washington, who survives her, along with two other sisters, Joan 
 POLISH--Muriel Wallick, after a tenacious fight against cancer. The end came abruptly on September 30. Beloved wife of Jack, devoted mother of Beth and Nathaniel, dear sister of the late Ruth Wallick Lipson and Mel Wallick, loving mother-in-law of Philip Friedman and Ellen Schorr, adoring g
 REINLIEB--Edith. Passed away peacefully on October 1st at Aventura Hospital, Aventura, FL. She was 99 and predeceased by her beloved husband of 56 years, Julius Reinlieb. Mrs. Reinlieb is survived by her sons, Laurence and Joel. Interment will be private.       
 GITTLEMAN--Florence of Valhalla NY, formerly of Manhattan, died suddenly September 30. She was 85. Her husband Sidney Gittleman predeceased her. Florence is survived by her daughters Baila Kaye, Scarsdale, Nancy Gittleman and her three grandsons Jesse,Isaiah and Kaise Bollinger all of Amher
 HIRSCHFELD--Phyllis. The Board of Trustees, staff, resident members and alumni of International House note with great sorrow the passing of Life Trustee Phyllis Hirschfeld. A dedicated Board member for forty-five years, she will be greatly missed, and our heartfelt sympathy is extended to h
 Former Representative Helen P. Chenoweth-Hage of Idaho, an archconservative who ridiculed the Endangered Species Act and the protection of salmon in her own state and called for disbanding large parts of the federal government, died on Monday in a car accident in Nevada. She was 68.        
 ABERMAN--Helen, formerly of Mount Vernon, died in her home in East Hampton on September 30th at the age of 93. She is survived by four children, Jane Baringer of East Hampton; Kathie Aberman of Liberty, NY; Richard Aberman of Georgetown, MA and Avi-Khadir Aberman of Sante Fe, NM; 10 grandch
 CORTEZ--Jeanette Berkowitz, on October 3, 2006. Mother of Steven Bergerson (Louise) and Tina Plesset (Max). Grandmother of Eric, Andrew, Sonja and Anna. Greatgrandmother of Claire, Ben, Kyle and Skye. Sister of Morton and Norman Berkowitz (deceased), sister-in-law to Lee Berkowitz. She was 
 SHEAN--Elizabeth. The children of Elizabeth Shean deeply regret her passing on September 4th, 2006. Beloved wife of the late John T. Shean, devoted and loving mother of Joseph, Catherine, John, Constance, Mary Clare, Teresa, and the late Ann Shean; treasured mother-inlaw of Christina, Willi
 TANNEY--Jean S. September 18, 1926 -October 2, 2006 . Born to Rita (Selz) & Monroe H. Sander in NYC. Graduated from Centenary Jr. College 1946 Married (Captain) Harold R. Tanney, USAF October 9, 1947, who passed away March 11, 1993. Beloved wife of the late Harold, devoted mother of Michael
 KAUFMANN--Elizabeth Stern. Age 95, died October 1, at her home in Armonk, N.Y. of complications from pneumonia. Her late husband, Irving Kaufmann, died in 1989. She is survived by her daughter, Nancy Samalin and Nancy's husband, Sherman Samalin, her daughter, Ellen Knox and her husband, Dr.
 DREISEN--Jean Weisman. Born September 13, 1920, died peacefully in her sleep on October 3, 2006. She was the loving wife of the late Anson I. ''Bud'' Dreisen. She will be deeply missed by her family. She leaves behind a beautiful legacy to her daughters Betsy and Janet Dreisen, her grandchi
 GERBI--Jeannette. 94, died peacefully at home in NYC October 1, surrounded by family and friends. A widow of Dr. Claudio Gerbi, she is survived by her loving daughters, Susan Gerbi McIlwain and Stephanie G. Harris and beloved grandchildren Alexander and Kate Harris. She was a French teacher
 JACOBS--Natalie Berry. Of Rye, New York, died at home on October 4, 2006, after a courageous battle with cancer, at the age of 79. Her devoted husband Meyer C. Jacobs predeceased her. She spent the last eight years with her loving husband Leonard Prose. She is survived by her sisters Sylvia
 SCHWARTZ--Mildred. On October 4, 2006. Sadly missed by loving family, friends and colleagues. She is survived by her son Paul Schwartz, daughter Emily Calamita, son-in-law Bill, granddaughters Sarah and Olivia. Her memory and wisdom will remain in our hearts forever. Service Friday, 11:45 A
 Mary Orr, an actress and writer whose first short story, about a scheming ingénue named Eve Harrington, became the Oscar-winning film ''All About Eve,'' died on Sept. 22 in Manhattan. She was 95. The cause was pneumonia, her niece Jessica Ivan said. Ms. Orr, who used the name Mary 
 BAKALINSKI--Mary Blake. On October 4, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Wally. She will be missed by her many devoted friends.       
 BURNAP--Elaine It is with great sadness that Clement F. Burnap announces the death of his deeply loving and ever-helpful wife and business partner, on September 22, 2006 after a long illness. Elaine Burnap was born in Cleveland, OH, on October 22, 1923. She attended Wellesley College during
 DePUY--Deborah (Sekzer) 49 of Upper Montclair, NJ formerly of Brooklyn on October 5, 2006. Graduate of L.I. College School of Nursing, she was an RN with Visiting Nurse Service of NY. Beloved wife of Christopher J. DePuy, dear mother of Tiffany Sekzer, devoted grandmother of Alexis, loving 
 PROSE--Natalie. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved longtime member, Natalie (Jacobs) Prose. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to her entire family. Earle Yaffa, President Dale Winston
 SCHWARTZ--Mildred. We at The Institute for Contemporary Psychotherapy (ICP), mourn the death on October 4, 2006 of our honored colleague, mentor, and friend, Mildred Schwartz. Dr. Schwartz's gift to this Institute was her timely vision thirtyfive years ago in initiating its beginnings, and 
 TOBACK -- Selma. Beloved and admired by all who knew her, Selma Judith Levy Toback was the embodiment of the kindness and goodness of her mother, Helen Yeamans Levy. She was also, like her father, Joseph Crawford Levy, a brilliant intellect. She held herself to the hightest moral standards 
 WILLIAMS--Cheryl A; Ph.D. 51, passed away on September 30, 2006 in Summit, N.J. following a long illness. Dr. Williams received her BS in business from Fairleigh Dickinson University. After a successful marketing management career with AT&T, she entered New York University where she receive
 HERMEL--Sidney H, on October 6th, 2006. Beloved husband of Norma. Loving father of Louise and her husband Jeff. Adored grandfather of Ellen and Amy. Graduate of NYU. Successful business man and well known artist. Graveside service Monday, 11:30am at New Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ.    
 JACOBS--Gilda, 67, of Ridgewood, Queens died June 29, 2006. In a city of strangers she knew everyone in her neighborhood by name. Gilda is survived by her brother, 5 children and 7 grandchildren. She was loved and is missed.       
 MASON--Gertrude. October 5th, 94 years. Cherished by her late husband Calman. Beloved by children Dr. Ira and Gail, Marilyn, Robert Bernstein. Adored grandmother of Cori (Seth) Berger, Jonathan, Bonnie (Michael) Smith, late Marc; great-grandmother of Ryan, Justin, Joshua, Zachary, Cole. Her
 MORELL--Doris Meyer of Juno Beach, FL died on October 1, 2006 after a long battle with lung cancer. Daughter of the late Anne & George H. Meyer, she was born in Buffalo, NY on June 2, 1923. She graduated from the Convent Of the Sacred Heart 91st St. NYC cum laude and attended Marymount Coll
 SUGG--Janet B., 77, on October 6, 2006 of Pleasantville, NY. Wife of the late Peter W. Sugg. Mother of Elizabeth Sugg, Susan Sugg-Nuccio and Katherine Selby. Grandmother of four. Visiting Sunday, 6-8 pm, at Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY. Services and interment are private. Donatio
 SUSSMAN--Sylvia (Rachel). The Medical Staff of Beth Israel Medical Center joins the rest of the hospital community in mourning the passing of Sylvia (Rachel) Sussman, whose generosity enabled us to provide comfort for our sickest patients, improve our clinical services and participate in nu
 TOBACK--Selma. 92. On October 4, 2006. Beloved and admired by all who knew her, Selma Judith Levy Toback was the embodiment of the kindness and goodness of her mother, Helen Yeamans Levy. She was also, like her father, Joseph Crawford Levy, a brilliant intellect. She held herself to the hig
 ZOLA--Dr. Judith Collier of Englewood Cliffs, NJ on October 7, 2006 peacefully at her home after a long illness. Loving daughter of Eleanor and the late Harry Collier of Cape May, NJ, devoted mother of her sons Erik and Adam Zola and elated grandmother of her grandson Brandon Zola. Dearest 
 Rosamond Carr, a Manhattan fashion illustrator whose love affair with Africa long survived her divorce from the dashing big-game hunter she followed there and culminated when she, as an octogenarian, opened an orphanage in war-ravaged Rwanda, died on Sept. 29. She was 94. She died o
 Elizabeth Allen, a leading actress on Broadway and in movies who got her start as the ''Away we go!'' girl on ''The Jackie Gleason Show'' in the 1950's, died Sept. 19 in Fishkill, N.Y. She was 77. The cause was kidney failure, her sister-in-law, Marion Gillease, said. Ms. Al
 ABRAMSON -- Evelyn L. Mother of Jonathan, David and Stephen, grandmother of 14, great-grandmother of four, and loving wife of the late Samuel H. Abramson. Passed away on October 7, 2006. She was a source of love and community to all around her; her home was always open to friends from near 
 ARCUDI--Evelyn. The Oratorio Society of New York is saddened by the death of Evelyn Arcudi, a highly valued singer and board member for more than 35 years. Involved in every aspect of the society, she played a significant role in its growth. Ellen Blair, Chairman Richard Pace, President    
 DI LEO--Joan McTague. Age 87, of New York City, Cambridge, MA, and Leeds, MA, passed away peacefully on Saturday, October 7, at Linda Manor, Leeds. Born November 5, 1918, in Buffalo, NY. Wife of the late Joseph H., who died in 1994. Joan graduated from Trinity College, Washington, D.C., and
 FICHMAN--Pearl Spiegel. Of Pittsburgh, PA passed away on Saturday October 7, 2006 at the age of 86, after a long illness. Beloved wife of the Late Yehudi David Fichman, mother of Mark Fichman of Pittsburgh, and Eytan Fichman of Somerville, MA grandmother of Michael Fichman and Jonathan Fich
 HECHT--Jane. 90, wife of the late Charles M. Hecht, passed away on October 7, 2006 in White Plains, NY. She was the beloved mother of Charles J. Hecht, Richard L. Hecht and Susan C. Altman. FunerAl services will be at the Congregational Emanu-el of Westchester, 2125 Westchester Avenue East,
 KEEN--Shirley B., 87, a woman of substance and fine taste, known for a strong voice with tremendous principle, dignity and love for her family. I was her gift, and she was my treasure. I will miss having her everyday. May the blessings be. With love, Gail and Barry Group $(6$)KEEN--
 LESTER - Evelyn. Passed away peacefully on October 8, 2006. Beloved wife and lifetime partner for over 45 years to Donald, loving mother to her son Barrett, and mother-in-law to Mary. Her death has left a void with her relatives and friends. Services will be Tuesday, October 10th, at 12:45 
 RICHARDS--Cordelia C. Of New York City and Farmington, CT, died October 7th, 2006. Mrs Richards was a graduate of Smith College, class of 1952, a member of the The Cosmopolitan Club, the Mayflower Society, the American Friends of the Georgians and a past president of The National Society of
 ZITWER--Edith. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation extends its condolences to the family of Edith Zitwer, Founder. She will be sorely missed. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation, 50 Court Street Suite 702, Brooklyn, NY 11201 $(6$)ZITWER--Edith, passed away on October 8, 2006. Loving wife of the l
 ZOLA--Dr. Judith Collier of Englewood Cliffs, NJ on October 7, 2006 peacefully at her home after a long illness. Loving daughter of Eleanor and the late Harry Collier of Cape May, NJ, devoted mother of her sons Erik and Adam Zola and elated grandmother of her grandson Brandon Zola. Dearest 
 DI LEO--Joan McTague. Age 87, of New York City, Cambridge, MA, and Leeds, MA, passed away peacefully on Saturday, October 7, at Linda Manor, Leeds. Born November 5, 1918, in Buffalo, NY. Wife of the late Joseph H., who died in 1994. Joan graduated from Trinity College, Washington, D.C., and
 RAPP--Laura. The Board of Directors and the Resource Library Volunteers of Women At Risk extend our deepest sympathies to the family of Laura Rapp. Through her caring, insight and dedication to Women At Risk's mission, Laura provided invaluable support to countless people with cancer. Her h
 TAUSSIG--Cecilia F., 68, of New York City, died Saturday, October 7, 2006, at Lenox Hill Hospital of emphysema. Blessed with a sharp wit, a sense of humor, and great curiosity, Celia was a loyal tennis fan, loved musical theater and word puzzles, read voraciously, but most of all, valued he
 VILLIOS--Lynne Waldee of Brooklyn, New York died on October 4, 2006 after a twoyear battle with cancer.Born on January 1, 1951 in Minnesota, Lynne was the daughter of the late Robert and Avis Waldee and grew up in St. Charles, Minnesota. She graduated from St. Olaf College and Vanderbilt La
 VOGEL--Libby. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Edward and son, Jack. She leaves her children Murray and Susan Vogel and Tina and Bernard Rabbino; her sister, Florence and husband Jack Nathanson; adored grandchildren, great grandchildren, nieces and nephews. Funeral from the BernheimApter
 ZITWER--Edith. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation extends its condolences to the family of Edith Zitwer, Founder. She will be sorely missed. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation, 50 Court Street Suite 702, Brooklyn, NY 11201 $(6$)ZITWER--Edith, passed away on October 8, 2006. Loving wife of the late Euge
 Eve Adamson, who founded the Jean Cocteau Repertory and built it into a respected classical theater company, died on Sunday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 68. The cause has not been determined, said her brother and only survivor, Lloyd Crisfield. In 1971, disappointed w
 BLOCH--Hannelore. The congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime devoted member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Ellen Sunness, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus $(6$)BLOCH--Lore.The Board of Governors and membe
 BRICK--Sylvia, 93, died on September 9. Mrs. Brick was the widow of the late Seymour Brick, the loving mother of Richard and the late Kate. She was the cherished grandmother of Noah, devoted sister of Alice, aunt of Jessica and Jonathan, beloved mother-in-law of Sara Bershtel and the long-t
 BROPHY--Muriel W. (nee Winifred Muriel Osborne). Born in New York City on December 11, 1897, died at the age of 108 on October 8, 2006. She had lived in Pelham, NY, for almost 80 years. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Frederick H. Brophy, and loving mother of two daughters, the late Beverly O.
 CRAWFORD--Anne Norris Forrester (Mrs. Charles T.) died October 9, 2006 at age 65 in New York City following five years of treatment for ovarian cancer. Until shortly before her death, she enjoyed good quality of life. Born in 1940 in Kansas City, Missouri, Annes parents were Judge Bruce M. 
 VOGEL--Libby. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Edward and son, Jack. She leaves her children Murray and Susan Vogel and Tina and Bernard Rabbino; her sister, Florence and husband Jack Nathanson; adored grandchildren, great grandchildren, nieces and nephews. Funeral from the BernheimApter
 WETENDORF--Judith A., 63 of the Pelham Bay section of the Bronx, died October 7 in Calvary Hospital after an extended illness. She is survived by her father, William H. Wetendorf of Pennsylvania; her brother, William C. Wetendorf of the Bronx; and her exhusband, Ronald Strain of Long Island
 ZITWER--Edith. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation extends its condolences to the family of Edith Zitwer, Founder. She will be sorely missed. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation, 50 Court Street Suite 702, Brooklyn, NY 11201 $(6$)ZITWER--Edith, passed away on October 8, 2006. Loving wife of the l
 RICHARDS--Cordelia. The American Friends of the Georgian Group express deep sympathy to the family of our devoted Treasurer Cordelia Richards. She will be sorely missed as a friend and as an Officer. $(6$)RICHARDS--Cordelia C. The National Society of Colonial Dames in the State of N
 REISER--Elaine D. (nee Neuman). Died July 22, 2005 in Washington D.C., loved and remembered today and all days by her children, David, Barbara, Jonathan and Leonore and her grandchildren, Krista, Patrick, Hannah and Zoe. A graduate of George Washington H.S. and the University of Michigan, s
 Danièle Huillet, the French-born filmmaker who, in collaboration with her husband, Jean-Marie Straub, created some of the most challenging and intensely debated motion pictures of the modernist era, died on Monday at the home of friends in the Loire Valley in France. She was 70. Th
 ADAMSON--Eve. We are deeply saddened by her death and mourn the loss of so inspiring and creative a theatrical director. Leonard and Thelma Kahn       
 BERKOWITZ--Sondra, born Brooklyn, November 27, 1932, died October 9, 2006. Beloved wife of Nathan. Daughter of the late Louis and Rose Schwartzman. Loving mother of Paula and Benjamin Green and Linda and Robert Englander. Devoted grandmother of Josh, Alli, Evan and Ronni. A leader in the Ho
 CHAPMAN--Aldys Squire, 91, of New Vernon, New Jersey, and long time resident of Nantucket died peacefully at home on October 6, 2006. She is survived by her three children, Aldys C. Davis of Villanova, Pennsylvania, Peyton C. Horne of Chicago, Illinois, and John S. Chapman Jr. of Berea, Ohi
 CRAWFORD--Anne Norris Forrester (Mrs. Charles T.) died October 9, 2006 at age 65 in New York City following five years of treatment for ovarian cancer. Until shortly before her death, she enjoyed good quality of life. Born in 1940 in Kansas City, Missouri, Annes parents were Judge Bruce M. 
 KENT--Elsie F. On October 10, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Nelson Kent. Loving mother of Alexandra Kent and Nelson Kent; cherished grandmother of Joshua, Ben, Jordan and Ada, devoted sister of the late Gloria Gersh. Born in 1921, Elsie was raised in New Jersey and attended Barnard College
 KLAPPER--Beatrice, on October 10th, 2006. Beatrice, beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Carole and Judge Marvin Segal, Susan and George Birnbach, and Ruth and Fred Fried. Grandmother of Joel, Lisa and Evan, Ilyssa and Rob, and Sarah. Great-grandmother of Jenna, Carly and Blyth
 NACMIAS--Roberta (nee Rettner). Beloved wife of Joseph Nacmias. Daughter of Marcella Rettner and the late Morris B. Rettner. Devoted sister of Dr. Raphael Rettner & Ronald Rettner. Daughterin-law of Eliot Nacmias and stepdaughter of the late Rabbi Bernard Mandelbaum. The past president of t
 SEWARD--Doris Benney March 2, 1905 -October 5, 2006 Doris Benney Seward, 101, died Thursday, October 5, at Mercy Healthcare Center in Tupper Lake, New York. She was predeceased by her husband, W. Saxton Seward, a brother, Trevose W. Benney, a sister, Isabel B. Hartenbach and granddaughter, 
 WILLIAMS--Cheryl, Ph.D. I will forever miss her loving and enduring friendship. Helen Z.       
 ZITWER--Edith. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation extends its condolences to the family of Edith Zitwer, Founder. She will be sorely missed. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation, 50 Court Street Suite 702, Brooklyn, NY 11201 $(6$)ZITWER--Edith, passed away on October 8, 2006. Loving wife of the l
 SCHNEIDER--Charlotte Brolat, M.D. 97, October 8, 2006. Beloved mother of Martin Schneider and Marion Brown, grandmother of Nicholas and Deborah Brown and Monica and Leo Schneider. A 1935 graduate of the University of Berlin, she married Louis Schneider, M.D., a 60 year partnership, and prac
 LEE--Carmela. On October 11, 2006 a flight of angels took our beloved mother, who will remain in our hearts forever. Rest in peace, Mom. Joann, Diane, Dennis & Gail and her Grandchildren       
 NACMIAS--Roberta (nee Rettner). Beloved wife of Joseph Nacmias. Daughter of Marcella Rettner and the late Morris B. Rettner. Devoted sister of Dr. Raphael Rettner & Ronald Rettner. Daughterin-law of Eliot Nacmias and stepdaughter of the late Rabbi Bernard Mandelbaum. The past President of t
 RICE--Katherine, A. On October 11, 2006. Retired after 50 years service with MetLife. Survived by her cousins, Barbara McGrath Tobino & Thomas A. Rice. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave (at 20th St), NYC, Sunday 2-5pm and 7-9pm. Funeral Mass Monday 10:00am at the Imm
 ROE--Jane died peacefully on October 8, 2006, at home with family in San Rafael CA. She was 86. Born and brought up in New York City, she was the daughter of Dr. Fordyce B. St.John, a prominent surgeon, and Jane R. St.John, a surgical nurse who was awarded the Croix de Guerre in World War I
 RUANE--Joy M., 65, of New York City, widow of William J., died Thursday, October 12th, of lung cancer. A devoted wife, mother, she is survived by her daughter, Paige, her son, Thomas, her stepson, William, and her stepdaughter, Elizabeth, her brother, Stephen Mehrbach and her sister, Doreen
 ZITWER--Edith. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation extends its condolences to the family of Edith Zitwer, Founder. She will be sorely missed. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation, 50 Court Street Suite 702, Brooklyn, NY 11201 $(6$)ZITWER--Edith, passed away on October 8, 2006. Loving wife of the l
 LEE--Carmela. On October 11, 2006 a flight of angels took our beloved mother, who will remain in our hearts forever. Rest in peace, Mom. Joann, Diane, Dennis & Gail and her Grandchildren       
 RUANE--Joy M., 65, of New York City, widow of William J., died Thursday, October 12th, of lung cancer. A devoted wife, mother, she is survived by her daughter, Paige, her son, Thomas, her stepson, William, and her stepdaughter, Elizabeth, her brother, Stephen Mehrbach and her sister, Doreen
 ZITWER--Edith. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation extends its condolences to the family of Edith Zitwer, Founder. She will be sorely missed. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation, 50 Court Street Suite 702, Brooklyn, NY 11201 $(6$)ZITWER--Edith, passed away on October 8, 2006. Loving wife of the l
 AUFHAUSER--Vivian. Died at her home in Palm Beach, FL on May 19, 2006 after a lengthy illness. Born October 15, 1940, she would have been 66 today. Ms. Aufhauser was a lifelong resident of New York City and, until recently, owned a summer home at Ocean Beach, Fire Island, as well as her win
 BROOKS--Lauren F. It is with profound sadness that the Time for Lyme, Inc, Board of Directors of Greenwich, CT, records the untimely passing of our esteemed Board member, Lauren F. Brooks, on October 12. With her kind and gentle spirit, she will always be remembered for her unwavering commi
 COHN--Mitzi. Dear Mommie, a day won't go by that I won't see your beautiful blue eyes. How many times will I reach for the phone to call you? I will miss you forever. Love, Diane $(6$)COHN--Mitzi (Crane). Singer, writer. Beloved daughter of the late Anie and William Fink. Devoted wi
 COMPAGNO -- Dorothy ''Dede'' Unkefer. November 18, 1935-October 12, 2006. A gentle and supportive mother who was a crossword puzzle maven with encyclopedic knowlege of nature and all things. She was a graduate of Vassar College. Writer and editor for non-profit organizations including: the 
 HOPPIN--May S., 98 of Westwood, MA died peacefully on October 8, 2006. Wife of the late Frederic G. Hoppin. She is survived by three sons, Thomas B. Hoppin of Washington, DC, Frederic G. Hoppin Jr. of Brookline, MA and Charles S. Hoppin of New York City, as well as eight grandchildren, two 
 NOVAK--Naomi Rock, died on September 15, 2006 at New York University Hospital, following complications from a debilitating illness. She was buried on September 20 next to her husband, James, in State College, PA. She is deeply mourned by those who loved her.       
 RUANE--Joy M., 65, of New York City, widow of William J., died Thursday, October 12th, of lung cancer. A devoted wife, mother, she is survived by her daughter, Paige, her son, Thomas, her stepson, William, and her stepdaughter, Elizabeth, her brother, Stephen Mehrbach and her sister, Doreen
 ZEITZ--Florence, 89, on October 9, 2006. Loving wife, mother, grandmother, fiercely devoted sister and friend, activist for peace and social justice, lifelong learner, beloved founding resident of Westchester Meadows. Wife to Irving, mother to Carol, Laurie, Naomi, and Lisa, mother-in-law t
 ZITWER--Edith. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation extends its condolences to the family of Edith Zitwer, Founder. She will be sorely missed. The Eugene Zitwer Foundation, 50 Court Street Suite 702, Brooklyn, NY 11201 $(6$)ZITWER--Edith, passed away on October 8, 2006. Loving wife of the l
 AXMAN - Myrna. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband Martin and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft P
 GROSSMAN--Beatrice (Bunny). A woman of grace and kindness, celebrated by her many friends and adored by her family, has left us in her 90th year and the world is less for her passing. Beloved wife for over 60 years of the late Sidney Grossman, devoted mother to Gary and Lynn, Judy and Steve
 HOPPIN--May S., 98 of Westwood, MA died peacefully on October 8, 2006. Wife of the late Frederic G. Hoppin. She is survived by three sons, Thomas B. Hoppin of Washington, DC, Frederic G. Hoppin Jr. of Brookline, MA and Charles S. Hoppin of New York City, as well as eight grandchildren, two 
 JANOFSKY - Rachel. Be loved wife of the late Albert, loving mother of Dr. Elliott and Betty Janofsky and Sally and Michael Hipscher, devoted grandmother of Karen, Jenny, Steven, Joel, and Lorraine, and adored greatgrandmother of Emma Rose and Daniel. A strong and gracious woman, remembered 
 LIPMAN--Betty Jayne, 86, of Roslyn Heights, died Saturday October 14th, 2006. Wife of Stanley Lipman for 64 years. Mother of Leslie Principe and Ric Lipman. Grandmother of Michael Principe and Robert Principe. Greatgrandmother of Mira and Jesse and Ray Principe. She was a Certified Braille 
 SAVAGE -- Carol Theodos. Died October 11th in Florida after a fierce fight with lung cancer. She savored the richness of life. We loved her for it. Committed to the arts, Carol chaired the Thomas Cole National Historic Site Board of Governors, served on the Advisory Council of Hudson Valley
 SHANLEY -- Isobel Culley. Died peacefully at home surrounded by her devoted family on October 14th. Wife of Paul Shanley, mother of Mimi Shanley Taft, Catherine Shanley, Eliza Shanley and Jane Shanley Brown. Motherin-law and friend to Lloyd Taft, James Carone & Bradford Brown. Grandmother o
 TOWNSEND -- Jo - Ann, died on October 12th of complications during a procedure for a cerebral aneurysm. She was a practicing clinical psychologist and psychoanalyst for 31 years, a colleague and friend who inspired others with her remarkable honesty, fairness, intellect and passionate commi
 SIENKIEWICZ--Patricia Davis, 74 of Princeton, NJ, died Friday October 13th, 2006 at home. Born in Raleigh, NC. She was a Princeton resident since 1954. Patricia was a member of the Stoney Brook Garden Club. Mrs. Sienkiewicz is survived by her husband John C., two sons Mark P., Peter C. A me
 CAMBRIA--Barbara. 1/8/53-10/16/97 Remembered always by her loving family and friends.       
 AXMAN--Myrna, We send our deepest sympathies to Marty Axman, and family, on the passing of his wife, and our dear friend, Myrna. We will miss her terribly. Suss Merberg and family. $(6$)AXMAN--Myrna. The Board of Directors of 870 5th Avenue Corporation extends its deepest sympathies
 KURFIRST--Mae Rita. Survived by her husband Hy, daughter Jill, sister Debe Grayson, grandsons Andrew and Nathan and many loving relatives and friends. Memorial service Tuesday 1pm at ''Gutterman's Inc.,'' 175 Long Beach Rd, Rockville Centre.       
 PELTZ--Helen, 86. Beloved aunt to Barbara and Martin Semel, Susan and Alan Coen and Lawrence and Karen Peltz, loving great aunt and great grand aunt to 16. Devoted cousin and dear friend to many. She will be missed.       
 RUANE--Joy. Save the Children and its Board of Trustees, senior management team, its staff and children in need in the U.S. and around the world mourn the passing of Joy M. Ruane, widow of former Save the Children donor William J. Ruane, on October 12, 2006. Through their visionary and extr
 SHANLEY -- Isobel Culley. Died peacefully at home surrounded by her devoted family on October 14th. Wife of Paul Shanley, mother of Mimi Shanley Taft, Catherine Shanley, Eliza Shanley and Jane Shanley Brown. Motherin-law and friend to Lloyd Taft, James Carone & Bradford Brown. Grandmother o
 TOWNSEND--Jo-Ann. The Institute for Psychoanalytic Training & Research (IPTAR) mourns the untimely loss of our esteemed colleague Dr. Jo-Ann Townsend. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Mike Devorkin, her daughter Sarah, her family and her many friends. Funeral services at the Plaza 
 GROSSMAN--Beatrice. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member Beatrice Grossman and extends heartfelt sympathy to her son Gary and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Liz Kislik, President $(6$)GROSSMAN--Bunny, The Board of Governors of Middl
 Wang Guangmei, the widow of President Liu Shaoqi and a powerful figure in China before she was imprisoned during the Cultural Revolution, died Friday in Beijing. She was 85. Her death was confirmed by a family member. Ms. Wang was once widely known in China as its beautiful,
 Michelle Urry, who brought a wicked sense of humor, an uncanny ability to nurture eccentric artists and what she called an ''inordinately dirty mind'' to her position as cartoons editor of Playboy magazine, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 66. The cause was an ocular
 COMPAGNO -- Dorothy ''Dede'' Unkefer. November 18, 1935-October 12, 2006. A gentle and supportive mother who was a crossword puzzle maven with encyclopedic knowlege of nature and all things. She was a graduate of Vassar College. Writer and editor for non-profit organizations including: the 
 CURTIS--Helen. Beloved wife of the late Henry Curtis. Mother of Susan and her husband Bob and of Linda and her husband Jeff. Grandmother of Bobby and his wife Alicia, Lori and her husband Charlie, Nicole, Henry, Scott and Victoria. Sister of Margaret. We will miss her terribly. Funeral serv
 GROSSMAN--Beatrice. To me she was Honey Grossman, warm and sweet and a caring friend. I shall miss her. Mildred Levine       
 LOWENSTEIN -- Carolyn B. (nee Burgett) Of Hamilton Parish, Bermuda on October 15, 2006, after a courageous and inspiring fight against cancer. She was a woman of beauty, grace and kindness, beloved wife, mother and friend to many. Carolyn's bravery and dignity during her year-long illness r
 YARDLAN--Charlotte. On October 9th. Loving wife of the late Harold, devoted mother of Stephanie and Janet. Loving grandmother of Scott, Andrew, Amanda, and Emily. May she rest in peace.       
 Marcia Tucker, a forceful curator who responded to being fired from the Whitney Museum of American Art by founding the New Museum of Contemporary Art, died on Tuesday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 66. Ms. Tucker learned several years ago that she had cancer, but a spo
 PEARCE--Sally. Passed away peacefully at home in her 92nd year on October 18, 2006. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Henry Pearce. Loving mother of Dr. David B. Pearce and Linda and Dr. Norton Rosensweig. Adored ''Nanna'' of her grandchildren J.P. Rosensweig, Julie and Paul Schwartz and
 SIDES--Louise Whitehouse died at home, Saturday, October 14, at 90 years of age. She is survived by two children, Randolph Sides and Silvia St. John and grandson John Randolph Sides. Sides was one of the first female pilots in the Civil Air Patrol and trained Navy flyers at Grumman Aircraft
 URRY--Michelle. Our deepest sympathy to Alan and Caleb. We have all lost a unique presence in our lives, loving and devilish, smart and funny. We will miss her. The Rothchild Family       
 Anna Russell, the prima donna of operatic parody who claimed to have begun her career as ''leading soprano of the Ellis Island Opera Company,'' who said she learned to play the French horn from an article in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and who gave indelibly grating performances of a song
 ANTONUCCI--Joan, on October 18, 2006. Died peacefully at home with a long battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Anthony. Loving mother of Michael Kemper (Marjie), stepmother of Carole Rodriguez (Robert) and Anthony Antonucci. Cherished sister of Gloria Kohn. Devoted grandmother of Adam, Sam, 
 ESSEBAG--Sonia. She fought her battle as she lived her life, with dignity and strength. Our hearts go out to Roseann, Jeffrey, Andrew, Bobby and David. We love you dearly. Maura, Joel, Glen, Juliet, and Eric $(6$)ESSEBAG--Sonia. To our dear friend, Rose Ann, you were the most devote
 FAJEN--Marion. The employees, management and Directors of American International Group, Inc. (AIG) are deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend and long-time colleague, Marion Fajen. Marion served AIG for many years in a number of roles, including as Corporate Secretary, Vice Preside
 FEMIANI--Winifred. On October 12, 2006. Wife of the late Joseph, she was an innovative and creative educator. Winifred retired as assistant director of NYC Board of Education for the mentally challenged.       
 LEONARD--Paula, 96, October 17, 2006. Mrs. Leonard was a graduate of The Dalton School, Randolph-Macon College, and the University of California. She fashioned designs that were featured on the cover of Vogue from her New York Studio. Member of the 3rd Order of St. Benedict and Professor at
 MAMLOK--Ruth of Southbury, CT, formerly of Island Park and Long Beach, NY, on October 18. Born in Lodz, Poland, daughter of the late Benjamin and Bessie Toron, an alumna of Hunter College and the Mount Sinai School of Nursing, an Army Veteran, serving as a First Lieutenant in WW II. Survive
 PEARCE--Sally. The Board and staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged note with profound sorrow the passing of Sally Pearce, beloved wife of the late Henry Pearce. Sally and Henry, a founding Trustee of JASA, were a devoted couple whose caring, generosity and compassion wer
 PRICE--Margery. Born on March 21, 1934 in the Bronx and died peacefully at home after a long and courageous battle with cancer on October 19, 2006. Even while struggling with her own illness, she continued to volunteer at the Mt. Sinai Breast House Resource Program offering care and hope to
 PRICE--Margie. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Margie Price, beloved mother of Steven Price and mother-in-law of Tina, treasured leaders and supporters, along with the rest of the family whose generosity and deep commitment cont
 RUSSO--Miriam. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 TARUSKIN--Beatrice F. 94, on October 19, 2006. Widow of Benjamin, mother of Richard (Cathy), Miriam Lawrence (Jack) and Raymond (Mindy), grandmother of Rachel Friedman, Jason (Glaucia), Beth, Paul and Tessa, and beloved friend to many. She had a rare capacity to love and inspire love, and w
 TUCKER--Marcia. Marcia darling, it was a pleasure to know you and to volunteer for you at the New Museum. I have always and will always hold you in my heart as a person who made a difference in my life. Love to Dean and Ruby. May your memory keep you alive in their hearts. Rest well, beauti
 OFFENBACHER - Gertrude. Deeply loved and mourned by her husband of 68 years, Eric, her sister Henny Wolff, her children Ellen Friedman (Robert), Evelyn Stern (Naftali), Edna Landau Bechhofer (Ernst), Eva Genauer (Eli), 12 grandchildren and 32 greatgrandchildren. Admired by all who knew her 
 WATERS-DASHEVSKY-Hallie Sarah departed from this world on October 15, 2006 at the age of 22. Her gifts and accomplishments are too numerous to recount here. She was a poet, a writer, a collage artist, a performer, and a dedicated friend. Although words were her primary creative medium, word
 OSTROM--Dorothy (Dodie) Miller, a life long resident of Greenwich, CT died peacefully in her home after a 20 year struggle with Alzheimer's disease on October 17th, 2006. She was born February 11th, 1919 in New York City to the late Drs. John and Katherine Miller. She graduated from Ethel W
 PEARCE--Sally. Passed away peacefully at home in her 92nd year on October 18, 2006. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Henry Pearce. Loving mother of Dr. David B. Pearce and Linda and Dr. Norton Rosensweig. Adored ''Nanna'' of her grandchildren J.P. Rosensweig, Julie and Paul Schwartz and
 PRICE--Margery. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft President       
 RUSSO--Miriam, 78, untimely passing on October 19. A devoted and loving wife of Jack, mother of Jonathan, Seth and Emily, mother-in-law of Deborah, Sylvie and Peter, grandmother of Laura, Steven, Mabel and Maisy, sister of Clara and Bea. Devoted her services tirelessly to her community of R
 TUCKER--Marcia. The trustees and staff of the New Museum are deeply saddened by the loss of Founding Director Marcia Tucker. An extraordinary visionary, Marcia was only 37 years old when she created the New Museum. Her courage, passion, tenacity and charisma, in addition to her unwavering c
 DIAMOND--Sylvia, on October 17, age 100 years and one day. Wife of the late Abraham Diamond, companion of the late Leon Winston, sister of Miriam Smith, mother of Cora and Julie Diamond. Grandmother of Dohra Ahmad, great-grandmother of Eliya and Melina, aunt of Peter Smith, Jo, Betty, Cathy
 FELDMAN - Frances. Of Jackson Heights, NY, died October 13, 2006. She is survived by her good friend, Mary Irwin, Jackson Heights, NY, and two nephews, Marvin Feldman and Alan Feldman. Online guestbook at www.andersonmcqueen.com       
 GILLEN--Barbara Eyre, a long time resident of Greenwich Village, died peacefully on October 8, 2006 at St. Vincent's Hospital-Manhattan after fighting breast cancer since 1988. She is survived by her loving husband of 42 years, John M. Gillen. Bobbi was an alumna of Bowling Green State Univ
 HARWOOD--Dr. Ruth, 89, of NYC, Died on October 5, 2006. She Received her Masters & PhD from Columbia University in anthropology, and was a professor at Long Island University for over 30 years. She was an avid bird watcher & a dedicated volunteer at the American Museum of Natural History. S
 KRECH--Nora Potter, of Easton, MD, died October 19, 2006, at the age of 90. The daughter of the late Clarkson and Amy Holland Potter, she was born October 15, 1916, in St. Louis and moved with her parents to New York. She was a 1934 graduate of Foxcroft School, and on August 14, 1940 marrie
 KRIEGER--Dorothy. Dorothy Brooks Tarnoff Krieger died October 16 in San Francisco . She was 89. Born May 15, 1917. She is survived by her companion Arthur Baum, son John Tarnoff, stepson Peter Tarnoff, stepdaughter Vicki Ewing, brother Harold Brooks, sister Lilyan Wolf and five grandchildre
 LINN--Nora H. In her 100th year died peacefully, October 15, 2006. Wife of the late Dr. Harry, mother of Victor and Judith, Robert and Ann, grandmother of Gregory and Lisa, Jason and Abby, great grandmother of JJ, Emily and Zachary. A woman of boundless intellectual enthusiasm devoted to le
 METCALF--Dorothy Anson. Born 1931, Shrewsbury, New Jersey. The loving and devoted wife of Richard G. Metcalf, Dorothy Metcalf was predeceased by both her late husband and eldest son Richard G. Metcalf Jr. As a nearly lifelong resident of New Jersey, Dorothy Metcalf served as a volunteer for
 MINKOW--Rosalie. Of Port Washington, NY, on October 20, 2006. She is survived by her beloved husband Howard, her children David and Ellen and grandchildren Megan, Eric, Daniel and Elyse. For information contact: Sunset Chapels, Manhansset, NY. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Fri
 OSTROM--Dorothy (Dodie) Miller, a life long resident of Greenwich, CT died peacefully in her home after a 20 year struggle with Alzheimer's disease on October 17th, 2006. She was born February 11th, 1919 in New York City to the late Drs. John and Katherine Miller. She graduated from Ethel W
 PEARCE--Sally. Passed away peacefully at home in her 92nd year on October 18, 2006. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Henry Pearce. Loving mother of Dr. David B. Pearce and Linda and Dr. Norton Rosensweig. Adored ''Nanna'' of her grandchildren J.P. Rosensweig, Julie and Paul Schwartz and
 PRICE--Margery. The Jewish Women's Foundation of New York is gravely saddened by Margery Price's death. She was an early member of the Foundation. Her concern for Jewish women and girls will continue to inspire our work. Our deepest sympathies are extended to her entire family including her
 SATZ--Charlotte of Woodmere, New York and Lake Worth, Florida taken in her 90th year on October 20th. Beloved wife of the late Leonard Satz, devoted mother of Helene Stein and Bettyann Glasser, sister of Mildred Soloway, Florence Lehrer and the late Bernard Zimmerman. Grandmother of Hal Ste
 TARUSKIN--Beatrice F. 94, on October 19, 2006. Widow of Benjamin, mother of Richard (Cathy), Miriam Lawrence (Jack) and Raymond (Mindy), grandmother of Rachel Friedman, Jason (Glaucia), Beth, Paul and Tessa, and beloved friend to many. She had a rare capacity to love and inspire love, and w
 TOBOLSON - Fay, passed away October 19th in her 87th year. She was born in Jamaica, NY on August 24th, 1919 to Sadie and Isador Tobolson. Ms. Tobolson was the quintessential 20th Century New Yorker. She never married, experiencing the heyday of Manhattan's cosmopolitan night life, serving i
 TUCKER--Marcia. The trustees and staff of the New Museum are deeply saddened by the loss of Founding Director Marcia Tucker. An extraordinary visionary, Marcia was only 37 years old when she created the New Museum. Her courage, passion, tenacity and charisma, in addition to her unwavering c
 Princess Irene Galitzine, a descendant of Russian nobility who founded a glamorous fashion house in Italy and popularized ornate pants as evening wear in the 1960's, died Friday at her home in Rome. She was believed to be 90. Her death was announced by Angela Savarese, her assistant
 Jane Wyatt, who reigned as America's ideal suburban mom during the 1950's when she starred with Robert Young in the television sitcom ''Father Knows Best'' and who nearly lured Ronald Colman away from diplomacy and into a lamasery in Frank Capra's 1937 film ''Lost Horizon,'' died on Friday 
 GRAD--Janice. (nee Schapiro). Born April 24, 1933, beloved daughter of the late Pearl Rubin, died October 19, after a battle with Alzheimer's and MAI lung disease. An abstract painter, and longtime member of the Art Students League of NY. Janice exhibited in galleries, office buildings and 
 MENDEL--Elsie B. Of Fort Lee, NJ. Passed away on October 21, 2006. Born October 29, 1915. Daughter of the late Anna and Abraham Bernstein. Devoted and loving wife of Lewis B. for 60 years. Beloved and cherished mother of Joyce Mendel Gruenberg and Lydia Mendel. Loving grandmother of David a
 MINKOW--Rosalie. Of Port Washington, NY, on October 20, 2006. She is survived by her beloved husband Howard, her children David and Ellen and grandchildren Megan, Eric, Daniel and Elyse. For information contact: Sunset Chapels, Manhansset, NY. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Fri
 ORLOFF -- Mollie (Schloss berg). Passed away peacefully in her 94th year on October 21, 2006. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Buddy (Herman) Orloff. Loving mother of Audrey and Dr. Henry Pollak and Jay and Bonni Orloff. Adored grandmother of Deborah Orloff, Janet and Jeffrey Pollak, Ro
 OSTROM--Dorothy (Dodie) Miller, a life long resident of Greenwich, CT died peacefully in her home after a 20 year struggle with Alzheimer's disease on October 17th, 2006. She was born February 11th, 1919 in New York City to the late Drs. John and Katherine Miller. She graduated from Ethel W
 SATZ--Charlotte of Woodmere, New York and Lake Worth, Florida taken in her 90th year on October 20th. Beloved wife of the late Leonard Satz, devoted mother of Helene Stein and Bettyann Glasser, sister of Mildred Soloway, Florence Lehrer and the late Bernard Zimmerman. Grandmother of Hal Ste
 ROSENBLUM--Beatrice. Stamford, CT, formerly of Middletown, NY. Beatrice Rosenblum, a columnist on antiques and collectibles for the Times Herald Record and author of several books on antiques, died Thursday, October 19, 2006, at Stamford Hospital. She was 93. She was a longtime resident of 
 GREENBERG--Ann. The Officers, Board of Directors, Staff, Participants and members of AHRC New York City (The Association for the Help of Retarded Children) sadly mourn the passing of their founder, Ann Greenberg. Although Ann always described herself as an 'ordinary housewife', her vision, 
 KURZWEIL--Irene (nee Fishbein). Died peacefully at home on October 23rd. Beloved daughter of the late Dr. Louis and Gussie Fishbein; devoted wife fo the late Benjamin Kurzweil; loving mother of daughter Judith, son Steve and son-in-law Basil; doting grandmother of Ashley, Brittany, Tyler, A
 RUBIN--Martha D. 95, of Clifton, NJ. Died peacefully on October 22, 2006. Devoted wife of the late Edward N. Rubin. Beloved mother of Leta (& Moshe) Arad and the late Aviva Tepley. Dear sister of Ruth (& Wally) Cowan and Norman (& Eleanor) Daitzman. Loving grandmother of Aviva & Naomi Arad,
 SCHNEIDER--Jane. The Wellesley College Friends of Art mourn with great sadness the loss of our esteemed member, friend, and colleague, Jane Schneider. Jane, an acclaimed sculptress and insightful art historian, was passionately dedicated to nurturing and mentoring young artists and touched 
 SCHLEIFER--Marjorie, dearest loving friend, you will remain in our hearts forever. Joan Siegel & Ruth Schoen $(6$)SCHLEIFER--Marjorie. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Marjorie Schleifer and extend
 SCHLEIFER--Marjorie Minskoff. The Staff and family members of Minskoff Grant Realty & Management Corp. Mourn the passing of our Principal, Marjorie Minskoff Schleifer, a beautiful human being in body and soul. Caring, compassionate, witty and wise. Her presence will be deeply missed, but he
 ADDONISIO--Joann. It is with profound sorrow that we announce the death of Joann Addonisio, our friend and Business Development Manager. Joann passed away on October 9, 2006, due to complications associated with cancer. Joann was passionate, innovative, and a fighter her entire life. Never 
 FOY--Geraldine F. Sparrowbush, NY and formerly of Englewood, NJ. Mrs. Geraldine F. Foy, a devoted mother of three, a Mets fan and lover of animals, died Sunday, October 22, 2006 at the age of 79. She was born January 18, 1927 in New York, NY the daughter of the late John Fitz Maurice and th
 GILLEN--Barbara Eyre, a long time resident of Greenwich Village, died peacefully on October 8, 2006 at St. Vincent's Hospital-Manhattan after fighting breast cancer since 1988. She is survived by her loving husband of 42 years, John M. Gillen. Bobbi was an alumna of Bowling Green State Univ
 KENNER--Edythe. Her passing leaves a void in the hearts of the entire musical theatre and cabaret world. Both performers and audiences benefitted from her generosity. At Town Hall we shall never forget the encouragement and support that mid-wifed the birth of our Broadway By The Year and Br
 KOFFLER--Anne (nee Greenberg) died on October 23 at home in the company of her husband Nicholas, her great love of 48 years. Anne was born July 17, 1936 in Shanghai, China. Anne dearly loved her three children Stephen, Pamela, and Richard and their spouses Marcella, Russell, and Lauren. She
 KURZWEIL--Irene (nee Fishbein). Died peacefully at home on October 23rd. Beloved daughter of the late Dr. Louis and Gussie Fishbein; devoted wife fo the late Benjamin Kurzweil; loving mother of daughter Judith, son Steve and son-in-law Basil; doting grandmother of Ashley, Brittany, Tyler, A
 SCHNEIDER--Jane. The June Kelly Gallery and its artists mourn the passing of Jane Schneider, a dear friend and an accomplished artist whose imaginative sculptures have been exhibited at the gallery since 1988. We offer our deepest condolences to her husband, Al , and to her family. June Kel
 SCHLEIFER--Marjorie Minskoff. Our heartfelt condolences to her beloved husband, Jack, children Jim, Jean and Alan. She was warm and caring and will be sorely missed. Norman Dick and Staff $(6$)SCHLEIFER--Marjorie. Mother's and father's dearest, kindest and most loyal friend. The ang
 FUERMANN--Joan Elizabeth O'Brien died in Naples, Florida, October 22, 2006. She was 88. She is survived by her husband of 65 years, Ronald, and her three children, Bryan of New York, Ronald Kevin of California, and Diane of Naples, Florida. Burial at Rosehill Cemetery, Chicago will be priva
 GLICK--Malvina (nee Katz) on October 25, 2006. Loving and caring mother of Susan Glick, mother of Marianne Rohrlich, grandmother of Justin Rohrlich and Monica Rohrlich Molenaar, and great grandmother of Tobias Molenaar. Marianne, even though you did not speak to her for 33 years, Mom was st
 HOROWITZ--Norma Bercovsky, 80, of Whitestone, NY died of cancer on October 24th. Beloved wife for 51 years of Murray Horowitz and devoted mother of Harris, Rose, and Adam. Loving grandmother of Sara, Jenna, and Aaron Horowitz; Simone, Andrew, Nathan, and David Katz; Rachel and Jordan Horowi
 KENNER--Edythe, died peacefully at home on October 24, 2006. The lights on Broadway and in Bergdorf's and Bloomingdale's will shine a little dimmer with her passing. Edythe Kenner, a lover of life, family, travel and all that New York City has to offer, including its theatres, music and cab
 KLEIN--Mina. The Officers, Directors and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center express their heartfelt sympathy at the passing of Mina Klein, beloved wife of our Founding board member and President Elect, Irving Klein. Through the years, Mina was a devoted member of our Auxiliary and 
 KOFFLER--Anne (nee Greenberg) died on October 23 at home in the company of her husband Nicholas, her great love of 48 years. Anne was born July 17, 1936 in Shanghai, China. Anne dearly loved her three children Stephen, Pamela, and Richard and their spouses Marcella, Russell, and Lauren. She
 LEWIN--Anne, lingerie designer, 52, Vice President of Design Intimate Apparel for Limited Design Services, died October 24th at her home in Manhattan. The cause was sarcoma. Born in Brisbane, Australia, she formed ''Anne Lewin Australia,'' a couture lingerie collection, which she brought to
 METZ--Eve. Age 78, died October 22. Survived by her husband Frank Metz, daughter Julie Metz, son Simon Metz, granddaughter Olivia Churchwell. Memorial service at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave, NYC Sunday, November 5, 1PM. In lieu of flowers, please make contributions to D
 SELVERN--Hilda (Caplan) of White Plains, formerly of New Hyde Park, died October 24. Devoted wife of the late Murray, beloved mother of Susan (Carl) Sandler and the late Arlene (Joel) Gordon, adored grandmother of Eric, Adriane, Deborah, Libby, Mark and Roberto. She was a kind and gracious 
 SEYMOUR--Mary (nee Denker), 96, wife of Milton A. Seymour of Southbury, CT. & Sarasota, FL., died October 16, 2006. A teacher who specialized in reading skills in the NYC school system for 25 years, Mrs. Seymour was an indefatigable world traveler whose many talents included sculpting, pain
 WYSONG--Arlene. In loving memory. You are our sister and our friend. We will never forget you. Love, David Lebenstein, Ellen Baer WYSONG--Arlene. It is with deep sadness that the entire staff of Colliers ABR acknowledges the passing of our colleague and friend. Arlene was an innovat
 EMERLING--Barbara Anne (nee ''Schmidt''), 54, of Remsenburg and NY City, passed on Sept. 23, 2006 in Tucson, after a difficult battle with cancer related to particles inhaled in the aftermath of 9/11. Barbara is survived by her beloved mother, Patricia Devine, sister JoAnn and brother-in-la
 EYER--Lisa Auchincloss. Of New York City. Died on October 24, 2006. She was 82. She was the daughter of the late Reginald LaGrange Auchincloss and the late Ruth Hunter Cutting of New York City and Tuxedo Park, NY. She was a graduate of The Chapin School. Her husband, George A. Eyer, Jr., di
 FIELD--Miriam G. The board and staff of Young Audiences mourn the passing of our dear friend and Board Member Emeritus , Miriam Field. Her commitment to young audiences span over four decades. We extend our deepest sympathies to her family. She was a remarkable woman and will be greatly mis
 GUSSENHOVEN--Jean C. (Nini) of New York City died unexpectedly on Sunday, October 22, 2006. Nini was a caring, generous and loving sister, aunt and friend. She was born in Mexico and raised in South America. She was the daughter of the late Walter and Marie Gussenhoven. She attended the Wes
 KENNER--Edythe, died peacefully at home on October 24, 2006. The lights on Broadway and in Bergdorf's and Bloomingdale's will shine a little dimmer with her passing. Edythe Kenner, a lover of life, family, travel and all that New York City has to offer, including its theatres, music and cab
 KEPES--Dr. Edith, Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, died at the age of 92. Born in Hungary, she received her medical degree in Vienna, Austria and fled to England at the beginning of WWII; during the Blitz, she worked as a midwife until she was accep
 LIPKIND--Camilla. 95, of Sunrise, FL, formerly of Bronx, NY, passed away on October 26, 2006. She is survived by her loving daughter Bernice (Sam) Greenberg and pre-deceased by her son Steven Lipkind, survived by her daughter-in-law , Marilyn Lipkind; four cherished grandchildren and five g
 RUSKIN--Clara Lee. Also known as Johnny, died on October 25, 2006 at New York Presbyterian Hospital after a lengthy illness. She is survived by Richard, her husband of 60 years, son Steven (Kathleen) and 3 grandchildren Allison, Graham and Melanie. Services will be private.       
 WYSONG--Arlene. In loving memory. You are our sister and our friend. We will never forget you. Love, David Lebenstein, Ellen Baer $(6$)WYSONG--Arlene. You championed the advancement of women in commercial real estate and, through your compassion and tireless commitment to others, to
 CONSTANTINE--Virginia (April 13th, 1920), graduate of Mt. Holyoke College, having fought a courageous fight against cancer, attained her final place this day, October 25th, 2006. She was the loving daughter of John and Corinne Benas, devoted sister to Flora W. Benas and an extraordinary mot
 SCHLEIFER--Marjorie, The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member Marjorie Schleifer and extends sincere sympathy to her husband, and other members of her family. Ira Eichner, President Arthur Loring, Secretary       
 OSTROVE--Cecil. Devoted wife of the late Samuel. Loving, beloved mother of Arthur (Carol), Mitchell (Carole), Alice Miller (late Norman) (Fran Levey); grandmother of Joan (Joi Lewis), Marjorie, Michael (Ariela Katz), James (Erika); great-grandmother of Samuel and Shulamit. Survived by dear 
 QUICK--Beatrice Brady, 89, of Medford, NJ on July 17, 2006. Devoted wife of the late Donald Quick (died October 20, 2003), mother of Virginia Quick Wilson of Chatham Township, NJ, and Donald M. Quick of Berwyn, PA, grandmother of Sherry Wheaton of Chatham Township, NJ, sister of John Brady 
 RUEDI --Mary-Sophie passed away October 26, 2006 at noon. She was in the Saint Vincent's Hospital HomeHospice Program. She died of breast cancer at 69 years old. She had been ill for an extended period of time. She was the former national secretary of The Catholic Women of America. For info
 EDISON--Edna Leah. 86. A longtime resident of New York, she was born and raised in Atlanta, Georgia and died peacefully in New York on October 20, after a short illness. She was a talented and aspiring actress, and attended Bennington College until an early illness interrupted her formal ed
 EYER--Lisa Auchincloss. Of New York City. Died on October 24, 2006. She was 82. She was the daughter of the late Reginald LaGrange Auchincloss and the late Ruth Hunter Cutting of New York City and Tuxedo Park, NY. She was a graduate of The Chapin School. Her husband, George A. Eyer, Jr., di
 FINE--Sandy. After a short illness, Sandy died on October 23. Her intelligence, wit and charm will be missed by all who knew her. We mourn the loss of this very special lady. Service Wednesday, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GUSSENHOVEN--Jean C. (Nini) of New York City died unexpectedly on Sunday, October 22, 2006. Nini was a caring, generous and loving sister, aunt and friend. She was born in Mexico and raised in South America. She was the daughter of the late Walter and Marie Gussenhoven. She attended the Wes
 JONES--Elizabeth M. nee Halton, passed away on October 27th, 2006 at St. Mary Hospital in Langhorne, PA. Elizabeth was born in County Meath, Ireland and lived most of her life in New York City. She was employed by AT&T as a long distance operator for over 30 years. Elizabeth was known by he
 KEPES--Dr. Edith, Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, died at the age of 92. Born in Hungary, she received her medical degree in Vienna, Austria and fled to England at the beginning of WWII; during the Blitz, she worked as a midwife until she was accep
 LEWIN--Anne, lingerie designer, 52, Vice President of Design Intimate Apparel for Limited Design Services, died October 24th at her home in Manhattan. The cause was sarcoma. Born in Brisbane, Australia, she formed ''Anne Lewin Australia,'' a couture lingerie collection, which she brought to
 MALECKI--Zenia (nee Berkon) died peacefully October 27th after a long illness. Devoted wife of the late Alfred, loving mother of Sophie and Lee Dichter. A brave partisan of The Vilna Ghetto, survivor of the Holocaust. Zenia was always there for everyone. Taking care of all her friends and f
 MATHIAS--Janet Janet Bonomo Mathias died on October 25th, 2006. Beloved wife of Sol, loving mother of Susan and Michael, adoring grandmother of Jamie, Jessica, Chandler, and Miles, mother-in-law of Sal and Heidi. A friend to many. A native New Yorker and a career women in the fashion indust
 MILMAN--Rosalind Joan Eno, beloved wife, mother, grandmother and great grandmother died peacefully on October 26, 2006 at the age of 96. A native New Yorker, Rosalind was born on the Lower East Side on January 3, 1910. She was married to Morton Milman for 61 years until his death in 1996 an
 OSTROVE--Cecil. Devoted wife of the late Samuel. Loving, beloved mother of Arthur (Carol), Mitchell (Carole), Alice Miller (late Norman) (Fran Levey); grandmother of Joan (Joi Lewis), Marjorie, Michael (Ariela Katz), James (Erika); great-grandmother of Samuel and Shulamit. Survived by dear 
 QUICK--Beatrice Brady, 89, of Medford, NJ on July 17, 2006. Devoted wife of the late Donald Quick (died October 20, 2003), mother of Virginia Quick Wilson of Chatham Township, NJ, and Donald M. Quick of Berwyn, PA, grandmother of Sherry Wheaton of Chatham Township, NJ, sister of John Brady 
 RILANDER--Beverly. Age 89, of Rockville Centre, NY, passed away on October 26 of natural causes. Beloved wife of the late Arthur for 68 years. Loving mother of Harvey (Lynda) and Kenneth (Nancy) and cherished grandmother of Adam and Allison. She will be remembered as a devoted mother and wi
 ROEDER--Eileen. In her 83rd year on October 27, 2006 of Glen Head formerly of Roslyn Heights, NY. Beloved wife of the late William A. Roeder. Loving mother of Jane Roeder, John Roeder (Michelle), Mary Anne Roeder, Nancy Zolezzi (Joe) and Carol Jahnke (Dudley). Cherished grandmother of 12 gr
 ROTHMAN--Gussie H., 98, of Delray Beach, on October 27, 2006. She is survived by her beloved sons Dr. Arthur (Bobby) and Louis, seven grandchildren and seven greatgrandchildren. She will be missed by all. Graveside services Tuesday, October 31st, 1 pm, at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, LI. Fo
 SANTRY--Marcine. Marcine Santry passed away on October 24th 2006 at 89 years of age. She was a graduate of Texas Christian University. After graduation she joined the U.S. Commercial Company that was under the auspices of the U.S. State Department ''Lend Lease to Russia'' where she served n
 WILLIAMS--Nancy. Mezzo Soprano, 74, Sept 9 in Sarasota FL after a long illness. Sang with most major opera companies and symphonies including the MET & NYPhilharmonic. Survived by her husband, Edward Alley, a niece, cousins, and scores of vocal students, whom she loved. Memorial service Sun
 Petra Cabot, whose first and deepest love was painting but whose most famous work was an insulated pail covered with plaid, the ubiquitous Skotch Kooler of the 1950s, died on Oct. 13 at her home in Woodstock, N.Y. She was 99. Her friend Nancy Kline announced the death. Ms. Cabot als
 BRANDVAIN--Ruth. Born 7/5/ 18 in Kovno, Lithunia. Died 10/29/06. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Simon Brandvain. Survived by her beloved daughter Ilona Kolb, four grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. She will be missed. Rest in peace.       
 FINE--Sandy. After a short illness, Sandy died on October 23. Her intelligence, wit and charm will be missed by all who knew her. We mourn the loss of this very special lady. Service Wednesday, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 LOEB--Muriel Menschel. After 93 years of loving and being loved by everyone whom she knew and who knew her, Mu Mu, died peacefully in what was her New York City home for over 50 years. A devoted wife to the late Richard Loeb, the perfect role model for her son, the late Alfred Loeb and daug
 LUTZ--Nancy Whitney. Died October 27 at age 80 with her children and exended family at her side. The daughter of Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney and Marie Norton Harriman, she grew up in New York. A 38 year resident of Redding, CT, where she lived with her husband, well known water colorist Pi
 MALECKI--Zenia (nee Berkon) died peacefully October 27th after a long illness. Devoted wife of the late Alfred, loving mother of Sophie and Lee Dichter. A brave partisan of The Vilna Ghetto, survivor of the Holocaust. Zenia was always there for everyone. Taking care of all her friends and f
 Bernice Kanner, who brought a quirky sense of humor and curiosity to books and articles on marketing, advertising and more whimsical subjects, died last Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 57. The cause was an aneurysm, her daughter, Elisabeth Cuming, said. Perhaps best known for 
 EBNER--Helen, 91, died October 29, 2006. Past President of National Council of Jewish Women, Passaic-Clifton Section, NJ. Lovingly remembered by Sons, Daughters-inlaw, Grandchildren, GreatGrandchildren, Brothers and Sisters-in-law of the late Jules Ebner. Enjoyed living her long life with g
 GLUCK--Sophie, died October 30, 2006 at age 93. Lawyer, judge. Beloved wife of Adolph and cherished sister and mother. She is survived by her son Matthew, daughterin-law Peggy, daughter Lucille, grandchildren David, Lori, Jeffrey and Carina, and great-grandchildren Andrew, Ari, Riley, Roxan
 GOODMAN--Barbara Cradin. I lost my gentle, beautiful, loving wife on Sunday. Barbara was always the sweet, innocent girl that I first met 64 years ago. Her character was defined by a generosity of spirit and the ardor of her love for everyone she knew. She leaves our daughter Laura, son Jam
 KAYE--Stephen. The Officers, Directors and Executive Director of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association extend their sincere condolences to our Chief Judge on the passing of her beloved husband, Stephen Kaye. $(6$)KAYE--Stephen Rackow. On October 30, 2006. Beloved husband of J
 LOEB--Muriel Menschel. After 93 years of loving and being loved by everyone whom she knew and who knew her, Mu Mu, died peacefully in what was her New York City home for over 50 years. A devoted wife to the late Richard Loeb, the perfect role model for her son, the late Alfred Loeb and daug
 LUTZ--Nancy Whitney. Died October 27 at age 80 with her children and extended family at her side. The daughter of Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney and Marie Norton Harriman, she grew up in New York. A 38 year resident of Redding, CT, where she lived with her husband, well known water colorist P
 TESE -- Marjorie Elizabeth ''Betty'' (nee Vroom), age 96. Died on October 30th, 2006 at her home in New Suffolk, L.I. Betty was predeceased in 1972 by her husband, Vincent Tese, Esq., the love of her life, who she loyally cared for throughout his long illness. Vincent, born in Naro, Sicily 
 TSUCHIYA--Maureen Keating, suddenly in Manhattan on October 28, 2006. Beloved wife of Takashi and mother of Hannah Meagan, age 15. Born November 1, 1954 in Atkinson, Nebraska, Maureen was the daughter of John and Dolores Keating, the second of eight children. A resident of Chappaqua, NY sin
