 BLAY--Freda Robinson, 86, died on April 27, after a brief illness. Predeceasing her was her beloved husband John S. Blay and her sister Ruth Joseph. Born in Syracuse, NY to the late Harry and Anna Rubenstein, she was a graduate of Syracuse University College of Fine Arts. Professionally kno
 CALDER--Elizabeth Ann (Libby), 86, a resident of Watch Hill, RI, died April 28th. Born in Boston, MA, the eldest child of Peter and Elizabeth Sullivan Naphen, Libby was raised in New Canaan and Darien, CT and lived for many years in Armonk, NY with her late husband, Louis Calder, Jr. and th
 CITRON--Harriet P., of Monroe Township, formerly of Fairlawn, NJ, on April 29, 2007. A retired elementary school teacher for over 30 years. Survived by her husband Murray, daughter Beth and Larry Josephs, son Dr. Andrew and Stacey Citron, grandchildren Jennifer, Samuel, Morgan and Julia. Se
 COHEN--Linda Kay, died April 29, 2007. Beloved and adored wife of Stephen R. Loving mother or Ricky and Todd, daughter of Henrietta and the late Jerome Eisenberg. Step-mother to Lisa (Eric) and Jason. Granny Linda to Jamie and Jack. Dearest friend of Valerie and Butch Elias. She will foreve
 RAWLEY--Ruth Kolb Otis, of Baldwin, NY died April 24, 2007 in Cairo, Egypt after a short illness. She was visiting her son James W. Rawley, United Nations Resident Coordinator in Egypt, and his family. Born April 12, 1921, Mrs. Rawley was raised adjacent to the Holtsville Tuberculosis Sanat
 SIRIS--Noa, M.D., died in Jerusalem on April 28th, 2007 at the age of 29 after a long illness. She was the beloved wife of Benjamin Siris, mother of Shlomo Siris, daughterin-law of Ethel and Samuel Siris, sister-in-law of Sara and Brad Nash, and granddaughter-in-law of Charlotte Siris. The 
 WEISS--Paula, mother of Peter, mother-in-law of Cora, grandmother of Judy, Tamara and Danny, great-grandmother of Jules, Noah, Maria, Catherine and Simon, died April 29, age 104. She lived a courageous life, as a mater familias, a business woman, early feminist, opera fan and inspiration to
 ZINTL - BRYANT--Leola. A longtime resident of Bronxville, NY, Leola died of cancer on Friday, April 27th. She was the widow of Robert T. Zintl, and Francis L. Bryant Jr., mother to Colby and Anna Zintl, sister to Lisa Burrowes, and gleeful grandmother of Joseph, India and Jack Markus. Servi
 ZUPNICK--Beatrice. Bea, the love of Alex's life. Alex, the love of her life. They met at age 13 in French class at Lincoln High School. Married at 21 for 66 amazing years. He taught her about music and opera. She taught him about art and ballet. Both loved reading, theater, movies, and trav
 CARPENTER--Marjorie J., ''Bonnie'', on April 29, 2007, at the age of 63, of esophageal cancer. Lifetime resident of Bay Shore, NY and Fair Harbor, Fire Island. Devoted wife Phil, Jr., and loving mother of Jennifer, Philip III., Elizabeth, Susan Moore and her husband Tony. Also survived by h
 CALDER--Elizabeth Ann (Libby), 86, a resident of Watch Hill, RI, died April 28th. Born in Boston, MA, the eldest child of Peter and Elizabeth Sullivan Naphen, Libby was raised in New Canaan and Darien, CT and lived for many years in Armonk, NY with her late husband, Louis Calder, Jr. and th
 COHEN--Linda Kay, died April 29, 2007. Beloved and adored wife of Stephen R., loving mother of Ricky and Todd, daughter of Henrietta and the late Jerome Eisenberg; stepmother to Lisa (Eric) and Jason; ''Granny Linda'' to Jamie and Jack. She will forever be in our hearts and greatly missed b
 MAGNUS--Margaret, Dr., RN, Ph.D. Born in Athenry, County Galway, Ireland. Professor Emerita at the Hunter-Bellevue School of Nursing where she worked for 25 years. Passed-President of the Faculty Delegate Assembly and Executive Board Member of the Alpha-Phi Chapter of Sigma Theta Tau. She i
 SMITH--Roslyn. The Board of Governors and members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Roslyn Smith. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved family. Allan Greenblatt, Pres. Leon Fassler, Secy. $(6$)       
 WEISS--Paula, mother of Peter, mother-in-law of Cora, grandmother of Judy, Tamara and Danny, great-grandmother of Jules, Noah, Maria, Catherine and Simon, died April 29, age 104. She lived a courageous life, as a mater familias, a business woman, early feminist, opera fan and inspiration to
 ROBERTSON--Heather Merriweather, 38, died this past weekend in Buenas Aires, Argentina. Heather, a screenwriter, director and filmmaker, was the daughter of actors Dina Merrill and Cliff Robertson. She is survived by her brother Stanley H. Rumbough and her sisters Nina Rumbough of Greenwich
 COHEN--Gertrude. We mourn the passing of our founding member, devoted friend and supporter -a woman of valor who loved Emunah's children in Israel and was loved by all who knew her. Emunah of America Heddy Klein, National President Melanie Oelbaum, Honorary National President       
 FINKLE--Nettie S., passed peacefully on May 1st, 2007, shortly before her 100th birthday. Devoted wife of the late David Finkle. Nettie is survived by her children Marc and Sara Finkle, Ann Miller, Patty and Mark Klein, 14 grandchildren, 27 great grandchildren, two greatgreat-grandchildren.
 KRAMER--George P. Board of Trustees of Hartley House notes with deep sorrow the passing of George P. Kramer, husband of our longtime Trustee, Elizabeth Kramer. To Betty and her children, Hawley, Alice, and Charles, we offer our deepest sympathy. Percy Preston, Jr., President Mary R. Follett
 MATTES--Minnie Watt Fite, of Tuxedo Park, NY, wife of the late Edward Charles Mattes, Sr., died April 27, 2007. She was 88. A daughter of Minnie Watt Pierce and Ernest Baxter Fite, of Hamilton, AL, she graduated from the Juilliard School of Music and the University of Alabama. She was marri
 RIPPON--Victoria Lilly-Ann, on May 2nd, 2007, beloved wife of the late Stephen X. Rippon. Loving mother of four children, cherished grandmother of ten. Best friend of one great-granddaughter and one dear sister. For further information call Andrett Funeral Home, 212475-2024. Contributions i
 SCHOLL--Hannah Holzman, died May 1, 2007, at Cabrini Hospice. Born in the Bronx, New York. Beloved wife of Harold M. Scholl, devoted mother of Eric and Roger. B.A., Hunter College 1948, M.A. 1949, Ph.D. 1959, Teachers College, Columbia University, in Speech Science and Correction. Professor
 SMITH--Roslyn B. Roslyn was the most loving and devoted wife to the late Robert Smith for 59 years. Adored by her children Penny Novick, Howard and Amy Smith, devoted to her grandchildren Brett and Blake Novick, and Jeffrey and Stephanie Smith. Her passing will be a great void in their live
 WALTON--Marcia Dana, passed away peacefully on March 29, 2007 after a short illness. Marcia was born on June 25, 1920 in Muskegon, MI to James and Dorothy Dana Walton. Her early years were spent in Madison, WI. After the early death of her father she moved to New York City where she and her
 BLUM--Claire, (nee Crystal). We celebrate her beautiful life. The Weinstein Family: Sister Lorraine, Sy, Cliff, Wendy, Ann, Andy, Julia, Jake, Chris and Daniel.       
 COHEN--Gertrude, on May 2, age 88. Beloved wife of the late Harold Cohen. Loving mother of Gary, Naomi, Joseph, Shira, Martin, and Leah. Adoring grandmother to Jonathan, Rivkie, Jason, Orly, Jeremy, Meir, Michelle, Lisa, Harris, and Ezra. Greatgrandmother to Chaim, Chani, Shoshana, and Tzvi
 HAMILTON--Marcia Fuller, (54) died peacefully on May 2, 2007, at Greenwich Hospital with her four beloved daughters and her husband by her side. The dignity, courage and beauty she upheld during her battle with cancer have been an inspiration to us all. Born August 3, 1952, in Coronado, Cal
 HOLLAND--J. William. The Jewish Theological Seminary expresses its heartfelt condolences to Louise Holland and her family on the loss of her beloved husband, J. William Holland. Generous benefactors to both the Jewish and general communities, Bill and Louise represent a second generation of
 LANE--Mildred. Deepest sympathy to our dearest friends on the loss of their beloved mother. Helen and Steven $(6$)LANE--Mildred C. Passed away on May 2, 2007. Devoted wife of the late Leonard C. Lane. Beloved mother of Arlene and Daniel Fisher, Stewart and Bonnie Lane and Clifford a
 RICHARDSON--Berry Delahanty, passed away peacefully in Brewster, MA, after a long illness. For over 60 years, she led the Cape Cod Sea Camps, founded by her parents in 1922, as Camps Monomoy and Wono. In the mid-1970s, she combined the two camps into the co-educational Cape Cod Sea Camps an
 SMITH--Roslyn B. Roslyn was the most loving and devoted wife to the late Robert Smith for 59 years. Adored by her children Penny Novick, Howard and Amy Smith, devoted to her grandchildren Brett and Blake Novick, and Jeffrey and Stephanie Smith. Her passing will be a great void in their live
 WALTON--Marcia Dana, passed away peacefully on March 29, 2007 after a short illness. Marcia was born on June 25, 1920 in Muskegon, MI to James and Dorothy Dana Walton. Her early years were spent in Madison, WI. After the early death of her father she moved to New York City where she and her
 Ida R. Hoos, a prominent critic of assessing technology solely on the basis of mathematical models that failed to take account of societal factors, died on April 24 in Boston. She was 94 and lived in Brookline, Mass. The cause was complications of a lingering case of pneumonia, said
 SMITH--Roslyn B. Our family wants to express our sympathy for the loss of our dear friend Roz, who, along with her late husband Bob, meant so much to us for so many years. May she rest in peace. Rita and Harold Wolfson       
 ABITBOL--Mollie. Daughter of Eli and Rachel Bijou. Wife of Isaac M. Abitbol. Devoted mother of Rachelle Sladoff, Diane Fogg and Roslyn Abitbol. Grandmother of Barbara and Mark Seidman, William and Matthew Fogg and Katherine Kinnell. Great-grandmother of Charles and Henry Fogg, Katherine and
 ADAMS--Reverend Dr. Ann Bamford, longtime Associate Minister at the Wellesley Hills Congregational Church, in Wellesley Massachusetts, died early Thursday morning at the age of 52. She had battled bravely against cancer for two and a half years. Dr. Adams served her community both in her pa
 ATKINSON--Peggy, successful Broadway and Off Broadway musical performer, director, teacher, died April 18, 2007 at Mt. Sinai Hospital NYC, age 63. Beloved wife of the late Don Atkinson, sister of Robert Longo of NYC and Roger Longo of San Francisco, sister-in-law of Barbara and Enid, loving
 BRUCK--Eva. We celebrate your beautiful life. We will always love you and miss you. Wendy, Andrea, Mark, Marc, Lauren and Rachel $(6$)BRUCK--Eva, on May 4th, 2007. Beloved wife of Stuart, devoted mother of Natalie and Spencer, and daughter of Zoltan and Clara Doman. Eva was loved by her fam
 COHEN--Linda. The Board of Directors of the Danbury Health Systems, Danbury Hospital and the Danbury Hospital Development Fund, along with the administration, medical staff and employees of Danbury Hospital mourn the passing of Linda Cohen, a dear friend and benefactor of Danbury Hospital. 
 FINKLE--Nettie S., passed peacefully on May 1st, 2007, shortly before her 100th birthday. Devoted wife of the late David Finkle. Nettie is survived by her children Marc and Sara Finkle, Ann Miller, Patty and Mark Klein, 14 grandchildren, 27 great grandchildren, two greatgreat-grandchildren.
 GILPIN--Laura Crafton, an award winning poet and crusader for hospital reform, died Thursday, February 15, in her home in Fairhope, Alabama, at 56. Laura was a gifted poet and her first book of poems ''The Hocus-Pocus of the Universe'' received the Walt Whitman Award in 1976. Laura had also
 HYTIER--Adrian Doris, formerly Lichtenstein Dale Professor of French at Vassar College, where she taught from 1959 to 1997, died suddenly at her home in Poughkeepsie on April 18, 2007. Professor Hytier also taught for a short period at Columbia University and at the University of California
 KRUKIN--Avalon S., died April 30, 2007, teacher, counselor, mentor, mediator -a fascinating, generous person. Survived by her brother, four nieces, a nephew and cousins. She will be forever remembered by a family of her devoted friends.       
 LANE--Mildred C. Passed away on May 2, 2007. Devoted wife of the late Leonard C. Lane. Beloved mother of Arlene and Daniel Fisher, Stewart and Bonnie Lane and Clifford and Randi Lane. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Sharon, Eliana, Harlyn, Leah, Leonard, Franklin, Lindsi and Matthew. We l
 ROTHSCHILD--Erna, on May 5, 2007. In her 98th year. Devoted wife of the late Joseph. Beloved mother of Dr. John (Barbara). Loving grandmother of Andrew (Barbra), Spencer (Julie) and Juliet (Matthew) and great-grandmother of seven. Interment private.       
 SCHNEIER--Martha. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of our distinguished Board member, Eileen Lauer. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graber, President       
 YOUNG--Sara S., 92, widow of former Colonel Roger A. Young, peacefully May 3rd at her home in Key Largo, FL. Survived by daughter Polly, granddaughters Sara and Suzy, step-grandson Sam, seven great-grandchildren.       
 CHAMBERLIN--Dorothy Jamieson, Delray Beach, FL, 102 years old, of 2105 Southwest 10th Court, Delray Beach, FL. formerly of Lakeville, CT, died April 11, 2007 at the Abbey Delray Health Center. In 1927, she graduated from Skidmore College. She was the wife of the late Mac A. Chamberlin who p
 CRUICKSHANK--Dorinda Pell, 85, of Needham, MA died May 4, 2007. Wife of William H. Cruickshank of Needham, MA, formerly of Wellesley, MA and South Natick,MA. Survived by sister, Gladden Pell Ward of Frederick, MD; children, Dorinda Pell Winkelman of NYC, Walden Pell Cruickshank of Mendon, M
 LANE--Mildred. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Mildred Lane, beloved mother of Clifford Lane, whose generosity on Long Island enables us to renew and enrich Jewish life in New York, in Israel, and around the globe. We extend our
 BOOTH--Alice T., of Stamford, CT, age 86. Died in her sleep of natural causes. Adored mother of Margaret and Jane and son-in-laws Tom and Marvin. Beloved grandmother of Carrie, Liz, Julie and Lauren. Favorite aunt of Amy, Pat and John. Family and friends are welcome to visit at the home of 
 BRUCK--Eva. We celebrate your beautiful life. We will always love you and miss you. Wendy, Andrea, Mark, Marc, Lauren and Rachel $(6$)BRUCK--Eva. Faithful and loving friend, we will miss you and remember always the joyous times we shared. Love, Marian, Steven and Evan Levine        
 GINA--Anne Sardi, died peacefully on May 3rd in Stamford, CT. Her parents were Vincent and Eugenia Sardi, founders of Sardi's Restaurant. She was a graduate of Barnard College, and worked for Governor and Mrs Averell Harriman. She was the wife of Architect Francis X. She is survived by a so
 HAINES--Jacqueline Florence (Greenfield), May 3rd (Israel). Jacqueline is survived by her daughter Margaret (Donald) Kristt; grandchildren Jonathan (Rivky) Kristt and Aliza (Alex) Israel; six great-grandchildren, Nava Bracha, Shmuel Zvi, Avinoam Tzvi, Maayan Frumit, Hillel Yitzhak and Yehud
 McCARTHY--Jane Aufsesser Lisberger, 84, writer, artist, philanthropist, died May 1 in Exeter, NH. Survived by her children Steve, Lin, and Jody Lisberger, and Emily Vitale, and sister Betty Sonneborn.       
 ROTHSCHILD--Erna, on May 5, 2007. In her 98th year. Devoted wife of the late Joseph. Beloved mother of Dr. John (Barbara). Loving grandmother of Andrew (Barbra), Spencer (Julie) and Juliet (Matthew) and great-grandmother of seven. Interment private.       
 Isabella Blow, a British fashion editor, aristocrat and aesthete whose gift for identifying and promoting new talent was occasionally overshadowed by her own Surrealist plumage, died yesterday in Gloucestershire, England. She was 48. Her death, at a hospital, was reported by Geordie
 ABITBOL--Mollie. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of Mollie Abitbol, adored mother of Honorary Board member, Diane Fogg. Our hearts and prayers are with her and her family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Fredric Mack, President Michael Gol
 BOOTH--Alice. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and fellow member, Alice Booth. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her children, Margaret and Jane and other members of her family. Allen J. Ross, President       
 COLEMAN--Janet M., on May 5th, 2007 at age 89. Beloved wife of the late Martin S. Coleman. Survived by her children Ann and Fred Lynn, John and Linda Coleman, Nancy and Matthew Mintzis. Her grandsons, Jeff Lynn and Julian Mintzis, her nephews, James Coleman and William Perper. Her niece Vic
 ESCOTT--Mary Ryan. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff, Students, Parents and Alumnae of Convent of the Sacred Heart New York City deeply mourn the passing of an exceptional colleague, dedicated Alumna and treasured friend. A valiant woman with a vibrant faith and a devoted Child of the Sacred 
 HOSIOSKY--Ellen N., D.M.D. Died on April 18, 2007 at home after a brief battle with cancer at the age of ninety six. She was the loving and devoted wife to Issai Hosiosky who died in 1998. Ellen was truly a pioneer for women educationally and professionally. She graduated from Columbia Dent
 JACOBSON--Diane Ruth, On May 5, 2007. Beloved wife of Steven, loving mother of Neil and Karen, and mother-inlaw of Charlotte. Cherished grandmother of Charles. Devoted sister of Michael and Marc. She will be deeply missed by all who knew her and loved her. Service Wednesday, May 9, at 9:30 
 COLEMAN--Janet M., on May 5th, 2007 at age 89. Beloved wife of the late Martin S. Coleman. Survived by her children Ann and Fred Lynn, John and Linda Coleman, Nancy and Matthew Mintzis. Her grandsons, Jeff Lynn and Julian Mintzis, her nephews, James Coleman and William Perper. Her niece Vic
 JACOBSON--Diane. We mourn the passing of Diane, a vivacious and caring lady. We extend our deepest sympathy to her devoted husband, Steven, her loving children, Neil and Karen, and to her grandchild, Charles, who she adored. Cynthia and Seymour Reich $(6$)JACOBSON--Diane. We express
 LAWTON--Nancy. Noted artist Nancy Lawton died in Albany, NY, on May 5th, 2007, after a courageous five-year battle with cancer. She was 57 years old. Ms. Lawton studied art at California State University at San Jose, and received her MFA at the Massachusetts College of Art, Boston, in 1980.
 MANDEL--Betty (Rebecca), Survived by her husband I. Irving of almost 71 years; also her children S. Sidney, Robert, Judith, her son-in-law Dr. David Lampron, and her dear friend Dr. Sandra (Sandy) Kahn. Shiva is observed at her home.       
 MAYRSOHN--Ethel Florence Handelman, died May 4th, 2007 in Barcelona, Spain. Beloved wife of Bernard for over 60 years. Loving mother of Janet, Barbara, Mark, Andrew and daughter-in-law Kathy. Cherished grandmother of Aubreyanne and Sophia. Her extraordinary heart, charity, compassion and in
 POLSKY--Dr. Zita Norwalk, 85, died in Atlanta, GA on May 6, 2007 after a lengthy illness. She touched the lives of countless clients in her psychotherapy practice. She was a devoted mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. She is survived by daughter Aviva Stern, son Joshua Polsky, sister
 WALTCHER--Azelle (Brown). March 27, 1925 -May 6, 2007. Beloved wife of Irving, loving mother of Jeffrey and Dan (Barri), grandmother of Genevieve, Thomas, Sarah and David, sister of Richard Brown, devoted friend to so many and Professor of Mathematics for over 40 years at Hofstra University
 BENENSON--Marjorie L. She died in Deerfield Beach, FL. May 6, 2007, age 93. Mother of Richard Benenson and the late Karen Allinson, motherin-law of Thea Benenson and Richard Allinson, sister of Monroe Lipton. She also leaves four grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. After a long and
 SPIER - ALBANO--Frances Disosway, 97, died in peace at home in Manhattan on May 2, 2007. From an old New York family, one branch dating to Staten Island in the 1700s another to Massachusetts in the 1600s, she lived her entire life in New York City, within blocks of where she was born, also 
 AMES--Camille O'Brien, 89, died on May 1st, 2007, in Asbury-Solomons Health Care Center, Solomons, Maryland. Mrs. Ames was the daughter of the late Frank and Estelle Schlaudecker O'Brien, Sr. Camille O'Brien Ames was a graduate of Mt. de Chantel High School in Wheeling, WV. She worked in th
 CHESLEY--Vivien C., passed away Saturday, May 5th at DeWitt Nursing and Rehabilitation Facility in New York City. Upon graduating from Missouri School of Journalism in Columbia, Missouri, she worked for the United Press in New York City. Afterwards she edited articles for the Teachers Insur
 CLARKE--Merrie Hevrdejs, 48, died on Saturday, May 5, at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford after a courageous battle against breast cancer. Merrie remains in the hearts of her husband, Richard H. Clarke, of Westport; her brother, Frank J. Hevrdejs, of Houston and Pebble Beach, California;
 DOWLING--Sister Margaret. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity of New York, Convent of Mary the Queen, on May 8, 2007. Sister was the past president of the Sisters of Charity from 1971-1979. Predeceased by her parents, John and Margaret (Byrne) Dowling, also by her two brothers, Joseph 
 FISHER--Naomi Rubin, died May 8, 2007 aged 85. Cherished wife of David, mother of Paul (Margaret Reid) and Robert (Yasmin Khakoo) and grandmother of M. Caitlin, Jeremy, Gillian, Alex, and Aliya. She has lived under the cruel cloud of Alzheimer's disease for nearly 15 years. But those fortun
 JACOBSON--Diane. We express our deep personal sympathy at the loss of Diane, our fellow Board member. She epitomized our mission of living a creative life filled with art and beauty. We will miss her. The Trustees of Longhouse Reserve. Easthampton, NY       
 KOMITO--Carrie, on May 9, 2007, age 102 years. Mother of Avodah K. Offit, M.D., sister of Tessie Karper, grandmother of Michael Offit, M.B.A., and Kenneth Offit, M.D., M.P.H., great-grandmother of Anna, Caroline, Tristan, Wyatt and Lily. Wife of the late Abraham Komito, Deputy Chief Enginee
 LAWTON--Nancy. Noted artist Nancy Lawton died in Albany, NY, on May 5th, 2007, after a courageous five-year battle with cancer. She was 57 years old. Ms. Lawton studied art at California State University at San Jose, and received her MFA at the Massachusetts College of Art, Boston, in 1980.
 LEI--Taiwai. We mourn the passing of Taiwai Lei, beloved daughter of Heng Mao Li and Kai Qu Dai. Taiwai was born October 12, 1978 in Shanghai and passed away May 8, 2007 in New York after a courageous battle with lymphoma. She received her B.S. at Cornell University and studied at Columbia 
 MAYRSOHN--Ethel. How sad we are at the sudden death of our very special friend and fraternity sister, Ethel. We loved her brilliance, warmth and devotion to us all. To her beloved husband, Barney, her children and grandchildren, we send our love and tears. Rita and Philip Rosen $(6$
 QUINN--Barbara L. (nee McAward) of Old Brookville, NY and Lakewood, NJ died on May 8, 2007. Loving wife of the late Robert John Quinn; devoted mother of Barbara Quinn McElroy, Thomas, Robert and Patrick Quinn and Suzanne Quinn Craig; loving grandmother of five; cherished sister of Mary Patr
 SIEGEL--Carol King, of Larchmont, NY died May 8, 2007. She was 82 years old. She is survived by her husband, Robert G. Siegel of Larchmont, two daughters, Marjorie Suna and Susan Siegel, and her sister, Eleanor King Green. Funeral Service is private. $(6$)SIEGEL--Carol. We record wi
 WALTCHER--Azelle (Brown). March 27, 1925 -May 6, 2007. Beloved wife of Irving, loving mother of Jeffrey and Dan (Barri), grandmother of Genevieve, Thomas, Sarah and David, sister of Richard Brown, devoted friend to so many and Professor of Mathematics for over 40 years at Hofstra University
 BENENSON--Marjorie L. She died in Deerfield Beach, FL. May 6, 2007, age 93. Mother of Richard Benenson and the late Karen Allinson, motherin-law of Thea Benenson and Richard Allinson, sister of Monroe Lipton. She also leaves four grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren. After a long and
 Lesley Blanch, an English writer and traveler best known for ''The Wilder Shores of Love,'' a biography of four 19th-century women who cast aside convention to seek adventure and romance in the East, died on Monday in Menton, in the South of France. She was 102 and had lived in Menton for m
 MAYRSOHN--Ethel. How sad we are at the sudden death of our very special friend and fraternity sister, Ethel. We loved her brilliance, warmth and devotion to us all. To her beloved husband, Barney, her children and grandchildren, we send our love and tears. Rita and Philip Rosen       
 PROIOS--Anna, on May 10, 2007. Beloved wife of the late George. Loving mother of Maroula, Michael (Jacqueline), and Constantine. Cherished grandmother of Nicholas and George and greatgrandmother of John and Theodore. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Monday Ma
 SIEGEL--Carol. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Carol Siegel, beloved wife of Robert Siegel, a cherished leader whose passionate commitment and generosity profoundly impacts millions of lives around the globe. We offer our heartf
 YOUNG--Shani (Shirley) Kaplan, Born February 13, 1926 in the Bronx, died May 10, 2007 at the William Breman Jewish Home in Atlanta, GA. A life long New Yorker, she was devoted to the Den of Antiquity jewelry store on MacDougal Street which attracted many famous people over the decades. Her 
 SWANTON--Eileen D., 96, died on Thursday May 10, 2007 at Franciscan Oaks Health Center in Denville, NJ. She is survived by her children and their spouses Patricia and Thomas G. Noonan of Hamburg, NJ and Norman F. and Elise Swanton of Greenwich, CT, nine grandchildren and twenty-five great-g
 WEISS--Jeanne (Nana) on May 11, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Edward, loving mother of Vivian Hammer and her husband Glenn, adoring grandmother of Rachel and Edward. She will be remembered for her love of family and many friends. Service Monday, 11:30am at the ''Riverside'', 76 Street and 
 BORD--Marilyn. The family and friends of Marilyn (''Mickey'') Bord mourn her death on May 3rd. During and after her career as a special education teacher, she volunteered for the Alvin Ailey Dance Company. In the 1950's she dyed and sewed costumes. Later she became the company's archivist. 
 BOWERS--Akiko Kobayashi, born Tokyo, Japan, died May 4, 2007, Pompton Plains, New Jersey. A graduate of Kobe College, she came to New York to study business at NYU in 1961. She was the first female Director of Protocol to the Japanese Ambassador to the United Nations. In 1970, she married D
 FISHER--Naomi, passed away on Tuesday, May 8, 2007. Beloved mother, grandmother, loving wife and sister. We will truly miss her. We were privileged to have her as part of our family. The Khakoo's       
 HOLBROOK--Ruth Price, of East Blue Hill, ME died May 1, 2007. She was born on November 9, 1911 in Walpole, MA and was predeceased by her husband, Luther Gardner Holbrook in 1979 after a long and happy marriage. Ruth graduated from Wheaton College in Norton, MA in 1934. Her only son, Henry G
 HOSIOSKY--Ellen N., D.M.D. Died on April 18, 2007 at home after a brief battle with cancer at the age of ninety six. She was the loving and devoted wife to Issai Hosiosky who died in 1998. Ellen was truly a pioneer for women educationally and professionally. She graduated from Columbia Dent
 JAMES--Sheila. Tierney-Advertising Executive died peacefully at home after a brief illness. Her career spanned four decades in print, television and cable advertising. She was president and proprietor of Harbor Associates, located in Greenwich, CT. In addition to her responsibilities at Har
 LEHMAN--Laura, of NYC, Caracas, Miami Beach and Tucson, died May 10, 2007, at age 86. Loving mother of Elena (Alan) Hilfer, Stanley (Yvette) and Carol (Jon) Howe, grandmother of Gabriel, Vanessa, Daniel, Andre, and Matthew. Predeceased by Ignacio, her husband of 49 years.       
 MILLER--Ruth. Poet, writer, scholar. Born in Chicago in 1921, departed February 21, 2007 at her Jerusalem home, beloved and honored mother Hadea Kriesberg and Matthias. Treasured friend to many in America and Israel, professor at SUNY Stony Brook, prize winning author of ten books on subjec
 PEACHEY--Rosalyn Joy (Robinson), 49, died May 2, of cancer. She will be lovingly remembered as a devoted wife, proud mother and inspirational Director of Childrens Choirs at St. Michael's Episcopal Church in NYC.       
 PROIOS--Anna, on May 10, 2007. Beloved wife of the late George. Loving mother of Maroula, Michael (Jacqueline), and Constantine. Cherished grandmother of Nicholas and George and greatgrandmother of John and Theodore. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Monday Ma
 RAFFERTY--Natalie (Rice), widow of the late Bernard Rafferty of Farmington, CT, died Thursday, May 3, 2007 at her home. She is survived by her two children, Kathleen Lamborn and Christopher Rafferty, and five grandchildren.       
 SAYRE--Nancy Bond, 77, of Delray Beach, FL, Chatham, MA, and a longtime resident of Rumson, NJ, passed away on November 17, 2006. Mrs. Sayre is survived by her husband of 55 years, Stuart Sayre and by her children, Libby, Stephen and Casey and four grandchildren. A memorial service will be 
 WEISS--Jeanne (Nana) on May 11, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Edward, loving mother of Vivian Hammer and her husband Glenn, adoring grandmother of Rachel and Edward. She will be remembered for her love of family and many friends. Service Monday, 11:30am at the ''Riverside'', 76 Street and 
 WERTHEIMER--Nettie, on May 9, 2007 at the age of 105. She arrived at Ellis Island from Poland when she was one and a half in 1902. She had an illustrious career in her volunteer work for Bachurei Chemed Synagogue in Long Beach, American Red Magen David, Amit Women, Y eshiva University and I
 WHITE--Carla. Died peacefully at home in NYC, May 9, 2007. Ms. White devoted her life to artistic exploration and growth as a jazz singer. She was born in Oakland, CA and raised in Bellport, NY. Completing two years at London's prestigious Webber-Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art, Ms. White r
 WRIGHT--Ruth Martin, Columbus, NC resident of Tryon Estates, died April 22, 2007. Formerly of Rockville Centre Long Island, Fairfield, CT, Westfield, NJ and Pittsburgh, PA. The widow of Robert H. Wright. She is survived by sons Robert H. Wright Jr. Cooper L. Wright, John M. Wright, brother 
 COHEN--Arlene Hochman Meyer of New York City and Bondville, VT died on May 13, 2007 in New York City. Arlene was born on March 25, 1930 in Brooklyn, NY to Robert and Lillian Hochman. A graduate of the High School of Music and Art, Arlene received her BA from Connecticut College in 1952. She
 RAPOPORT--Rose. Devoted mother of Dr. Samuel Rapoport and Nancy Rapoport Goldstein, and father-in-law of Sandra Rapoport and Dr. Steven Goldstein. Doting grandmother of Benjamin, Matthew, Ezra, Rebecca, Sarah, and Jordana. Steadfast sister-in-law of Morris Rapport and Rose Gelber both of Mi
 RIGG--Cynthia W. Cynthia, who passed away on May 12, was the beloved wife of Abe Frajndlich and the devoted and doting mother of Lucas. With grit, grace and her everpresent humor, she waged a heroic, five-year battle with cancer. Throughout her illness, Cynthia remained a fiercely loyal fri
 SCHNEIER--Yetta, 94, of Manhattan and Boca Raton. Died May 11, 2007. Wife of the late Nat Schneier. Mother of Alan Schneier and wife Leah and Maxine and Joseph Copulsky. Adoring grandmother of Erica, Dena, Nicole, Adrienne, and Ilene and greatgrandmother of Sydney, Gabriel, and Alexander. S
 SHELTON--Miss Frances Elizabeth was the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. John B. Shelton and was born in Decatur, Alabama on January 24, 1919. After graduating from high school, she visited New York City with her mother and ultimately decided to enroll at The Julliard School based on that fateful v
 Kate Webb, a brave, no-nonsense correspondent during the Vietnam War who was erroneously reported to have been captured, killed and cremated in Cambodia -- only to emerge from the jungle alive --died on Sunday in Sydney, Australia. She was 64. The cause was bowel cancer, her brother
 COHEN--Arlene Hochman Meyer. My sister, my friend. Devoted to her family and keeper of all our memories, I will always remember and always love you. Ron Hochman $(6$)COHEN--Arlene Meyer. We shall miss this stylish, spunky, interesting woman whom we admired always. Our hearts go out 
 FELDMAN--Florence. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to her family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 FRANKEL--Pauline. Dear life long friend, gone but not forgotten. Gladys and Monroe $(6$)FRANKEL--Pauline W., passed away in her 93rd year after a short illness. Loving and devoted wife of the late Louis J. Adored mother of Steven (Barbara) and the late Michael (Evelyne). Beloved gra
 HUTCHINSON--Dorris J., Ph.D, Microbiologist, 88 years of age formerly of Bronxville on May 9, 2007. Dr. Hutchinson was a pioneer in cancer received at Sloane-Kettering Institute. She attended the University of Western Kentucky, received a scholarship to study Bacteriology at the University 
 MICHAELS--Audrey J. beloved mother of John Ehrlich, grandmother of Andrew, Adam and Matthew, passed away May 11, 2007. A lifelong New York resident, Audrey Michaels was a vital force in the classical music business in a prolific career spanning more than 60 years. The first copy girl in the
 NAUMBURG--Marian Opton, died at home in her sleep, May 13, 2007. The daughter of the late Milton and Harriet Opton, and the wife of the late C. Frank Naumburg, she is survived by her brother, Edward, three nephews, and their families. Patron, gourmet, friend and stubborn survivor, she will 
 PAPPAS--Katherine A. (Plakias), of Canton, MA, formerly of Milton, MA. Beloved wife of the late honorable John C. Pappas. Loving mother of Valerie Sapounakis and Georgia Pappas both of New York, Diana Hamilton and T. Peter Pappas both of Connecticut, James Pappas of Boston and the late Soph
 RUBINO--Edith, of Riverdale, died on May 10. Born in Germany in 1917, she moved to New York in 1938 where she pursued a lifelong career in nursing. Predeceased by her brother John. She was the beloved sister - in - law of Florence Rubino. Beloved aunt of Elliott Rubino (Cindy), Randy Herman
 SCHLAGMAN--Phyllis Ruth (nee Klempner), May 13, 2007. Wife of the late Herbert. Mother of Adam Schlagman (Catherine Etters) and Eric Schlagman (Miriam Rothstein). Sister of Miriam Skurnick. Grandmother of Eliana. Dear companion of Dr. Stanley Miezio. Relatives and friends are invited to Fun
 SHAPIRO--Doris Mintz, 89, of West Hartford, CT, died on Sunday evening, May 13, 2007 after a long illness. A lifelong reader and keen observer of American history and politics, Mrs. Shapiro worked as a librarian at Trinity College, Hartford, before retiring 28 years ago. She was married for
 DANIEL--Elsa Musliner. Gone a decade. Remembered fondly for her caring and dedication       
 DETRE--Jean, died on May 5, 2007, in New York City, after a brief illness. Writer, world traveler, courageous spirit. Author of several books and articles, including A Most Extraordinary Pair: Mary Wollstonecraft and William Godwin, published by Doubleday, 1975. Member of PEN. Recipient of 
 FRIEDMAN - Naomi. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations mourns the passing of Naomi Friedman, the beloved mother of our esteemed colleague and friend Cory Schneider, President, Women's League for Conservative Judaism. We pray that the Schneider family will be c
 HUTCHINSON--Dorris J., Ph.D, Microbiologist, 88 years of age formerly of Bronxville on May 9, 2007. Dr. Hutchinson was a pioneer in cancer research at Sloane-Kettering Institute. She attended the University of Western Kentucky, received a scholarship to study Bacteriology at the University 
 LAUGA -- Agnes Thenaud, MA, MSS, died May 9th 2007 after a brief illness at the age of 96. A lifelong social worker, she served as Director of Psychiatric Social Work, Albert Einstein College of Medicine 1955-1970, and then served there as Associate Director and Acting Director of Social Wo
 MICHAELS--Audrey J. beloved mother of John Ehrlich, grandmother of Andrew, Adam and Matthew, passed away May 11, 2007. A lifelong New York resident, Audrey Michaels was a vital force in the classical music business in a prolific career spanning more than 60 years. The first copy girl in the
 NICELEY--Vivian ''Elaine''. On Saturday, May 12, 2007, Elaine Niceley of Glenn Dale, Maryland, beloved wife of Christopher Niceley; devoted and adored mother of Karen Louise Niceley and Kelly Lyn Niceley, died suddenly of a heart attack. She was the daughter of the late Donald and Eldora Wh
 SHANER--Elizabeth B. (Carole) of Bronxville, NY, died on May 7, 2007. ''A Merry Heart Doeth Good Like A Medicine''. With these words Elizabeth Shaner embroidered her legacy in a needlepoint created as a thirteen year old in 1929. Throughout her life, she uplifted our hearts and expanded the
 SHAPIRO--Doris Mintz, 89, of West Hartford, CT, died on Sunday evening, May 13, 2007 after a long illness. A lifelong reader and keen observer of American history and politics, Mrs. Shapiro worked as a librarian at Trinity College, Hartford, before retiring 28 years ago. She was married for
 STRASSMAN--Natalie Krieger on May 14, 2007, at 96 years young. Beloved wife of the late Solomon, devoted daughter and sister, wonderful mother, adored grandmother and great-grandmother. Survived by daughters and their husbands Judy and Eric Herbst, Toby and Harold Weinberger, grandchildren 
 BLAKELY--Dominique Alice, 19, of Pelham, NY, died on May 13, 2007. A 2005 graduate of Pelham Memorial High School, Dominique was a talented singer and actress who starred in many school plays and musicals. At Connecticut College she sang in the college's jazz band and performed with an a ca
 FRIEDMAN--Naomi. Torah Fund and the faculty, students, and staff of The Jewish Theological Seminary all extend their deepest condolences to Cory Schneider on the death of her mother, Naomi Friedman. May her memory be for a blessing. Arnold M. Eisen, Chancellor-elect Gershon Kekst, Chairman 
 LEBOW--Doris (Prowler), New York City, 91, died peacefully May 15, her three daughters, Lynn Nadeau, Joan Wheeler and Cathy Axelson-Berry by her side. Predeceased by brother Stanley Prowler, survived by brother Bob Prowler, seven grandchildren, eight great-grandchildren. Service May 17, Riv
 NICELEY--Vivian ''Elaine''. On Saturday, May 12, 2007, Elaine Niceley of Glenn Dale, Maryland, beloved wife of Christopher Niceley; devoted and adored mother of Karen Louise Niceley and Kelly Lyn Niceley, died suddenly of a heart attack. She was the daughter of the late Donald and Eldora Wh
 WASSERSTEIN--Natalie. On May 16, 2007. Devoted wife of the late Herman Wasserstein, DDS. Adored mother of Carole Hochhauser (Richard), Jill Wolowitz (Howard), and David Wasserstein, M.D. (Kerry). Beloved grandmother of Jonathan (Amy), Jennifer (James), Maggie, Matthew, Taylor, Justin, and J
 Yolanda King, the eldest child of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. who melded her father's message of racial equality and nonviolence with her own calling as an actor and a motivational speaker, died on Tuesday in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 51. Steve Klein, a spokesman for the 
 BLANK--Mary, Louise, December 10, 1912 -May 17, 2007. Mary Louise Blank of Madison CT passed away on May 17, 2007. She leaves behind a legacy of caring and giving. As the wife of Dr. Samuel Blank and the mother of five children, she is survived by Janet Hassinger of Galviston, TX, Robert Bl
 EVANCHIK--Raymonde Daughter of Joseph ''Albert'' Billaux and Germaine Thalgott Billaux. Wife of Nicholas. Mother of Michel and Francoise. Grandmother of Jack and Freya. Born July 8, 1940, Redon, France. Died May 16, 2007, Calvary Hospital, NY. We will miss her greatly.       
 HARAGSIM--Caren M. (nee Platt) on May 16, 2007. A spiritual person that had a zest for life, surrounded by a loving circle of friends, taken from us too early but she will forever live in our hearts. Most beloved daughter of Irene and Harvey Platt, loving sister of Andrew Platt and sister-i
 HARAGSIM--Karen (nee Platt). A great lover of life; she was adored and will be deeply missed. Love, Jane and Les       
 NICELEY--Vivian ''Elaine''. On Saturday, May 12, 2007, Elaine Niceley of Glenn Dale, Maryland, beloved wife of Christopher Niceley; devoted and adored mother of Karen Louise Niceley and Kelly Lyn Niceley, died suddenly of a heart attack. She was the daughter of the late Donald and Eldora Wh
 Karen Hess, an American culinary historian who brought an academic rigor to the study of recipes, cooking techniques and ordinary American kitchen practices, died Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 88. She died after suffering a stroke the week before, her son Peter Hess said. Ms
 Mary Scheier, a pioneer of the modern studio pottery movement known for the lightness of her forms, died on May 14 in Green Valley, Ariz. She was 99 and had lived in Green Valley for many years. Her death was announced by Susan Strickler, a friend and the director of the Currier Mus
 FORSYTHE--Carol (Mackie), died May 18, 2007, at the age of 55, after a long illness. She was born November 26, 1951, in Gary, Indiana. She attended Indiana State University and Columbia University. Her professional life in New York began at Ziff-Davis Publishing and went on to include Fred/
 FRANK--Sally, 82, daughter of the late Dorothy and Benjamin Cohen. Devoted wife of the late Marvin J. Frank. Survived by her loving family; children, Karen and Sandy; brothers, Stanley and Albert; grandchildren, Daryl and Megan; daughter-in-law Linda; her many cousins and dear friend Prame.
 HARAGSIM--Caren (nee Platt). A great lover of life; she was adored and will be deeply missed. Love, Jane and Les       
 HARAGSIM--Caren M. (nee Platt) on May 16, 2007. A spiritual person that had a zest for life, surrounded by a loving circle of friends, taken from us too early but she will forever live in our hearts. Most beloved daughter of Irene and Harvey Platt, loving sister of Andrew Platt and sister-i
 SCHWARTZ--Helen (nee Climo), beloved wife, mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother passed away May 17 in Florida at age 98. She was the widow of Rabbi Harry E. Schwartz, spiritual leader of Congregation Beth Israel in Hempstead, NY for 35 years. Born in Cleveland, Ohio, she graduated Hebre
 BERMEL--Virginia, 84, of Islip Terrace, the mother of 15 children. More about her: www.bermelfamily.com       
 CAIN--Harriet F., age 86, of 1 Beechwood Dr., Waterford, formerly of New York, died May 15, 2007 at the Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in New London, CT. Miss Cain had been employed as a fashion editor for the New York Times and Conde Nast prior to her retirement. She was predeceased by her
 COYLE--Elizabeth McConnell, died in her sleep on Monday, May 7th at her home in Tequesta, FL at the age of 83. Born in Bronxville, NY and raised in Middleburg, VA, she then graduated from the Baldwin School and attended Sarah Lawrence College. She served for many years as a docent at the Am
 FARBER--Marjorie, age 91. Artist, feminist, pioneering lawyer, survived by Elizabeth, Bill, Richard, Doris, Sophia, Rachel, Mike, Emily, Michael, Deborah, Sam, Zach, Ruth, Gloria, and her beloved friend Martin. A dynamic, shrewd, vibrant person who did a lot for others and will be greatly m
 FORSYTHE--Carol (Mackie), died May 18, 2007, at the age of 55, after a long illness. She was born November 26, 1951, in Gary, Indiana. She attended Indiana State University and Columbia University. Her professional life in New York began at Ziff-Davis Publishing and went on to include Fred/
 HARAGSIM--Caren M. (nee Platt) on May 16, 2007. A spiritual person that had a zest for life, surrounded by a loving circle of friends, taken from us too early but she will forever live in our hearts. Most beloved daughter of Irene and Harvey Platt, loving sister of Andrew Platt and sister-i
 MICHAELS--Audrey J. beloved mother of John Ehrlich, grandmother of Andrew, Adam and Matthew, passed away May 11, 2007. A lifelong New York resident, Audrey Michaels was a vital force in the classical music business in a prolific career spanning more than 60 years. The first copy girl in the
 PHENIX--Gena Tenney, November 22, 1911 -May 7, 2007. Born New York City to Gena Branscombe, John F. Tenney. Attended Rayson, Fieldston, Barnard. Faculty, Barnard Columbia 1935-1943. Honored musician and scholar. Engaged world at large, opposing intolerance, upholding the disadvantaged. Spir
 ROBERTS--Donna L., died May 17, 2007 age 53. Survived by life partner Leonora Lucon, mother, Evelyn Roberts and her siblings, Hal, Phyllis, Donald, Tessa and Jerry. Your loving smile and gentle nature will be missed by all. Memorial services will be July 21st at Brooklyn Ethical Culture.   
 STARRS--Florence M. Of Hampton Bays, NY. Formerly of Jackson Heights, NY on May 17, 2007. Executive Secretary to the Rockefeller Family Officers at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in NY. Prior to that position she was Executive Secretary to the Vice President of American Airlines. She attended Fordham
 CARTER--Pauline. Happy Birthday, Mom. Stephie graduated SU and we were all thinking how proud of her you would be. Love, Donny       
 duRIVAGE--Jane (nee McDowell), of Huntington, NY on May 17, 2007. Wife of the late Arthur A. Sister of John Vance. Mother of Vance, Kent, Darryl, Rex, Holly and Mark. Grandmother of John, Justin, Flannery, Nicolas, Sally, Karly, Nathalie, Sebastian, Duncan, Jeremy, and Oliver Beau. Beloved 
 Dame Mary Douglas, an anthropologist whose influence ranged beyond the traditional questions of her field to examine areas as diverse as kosher diets, consumer behavior, environmentalism and humor as she described how humans work together to find shared meaning, died Wednesday in London.   
 COHN--Florence, age 93, died peacefully at home May 19 in Laguna Woods, CA. Born Florence Weiner, daughter of Sam and Rose of Beaver Falls, PA. Sister of Milton, Ruth, Stephen and Helen. A lifelong social activist and tireless advocate for peace and justice. Came to NYC in her late teens wh
 KAPLAN--Murray. The Board and staff of Citymealson-Wheels express condolences to Janet Rodgers, a founding member, whose lively, sociable 95-year-old father, Murray Kaplan, died after an automobile accident this week. Janet's caring attention to her father exemplifies the sensitive concern 
 KASSIRER--Karen of Manhattan died May 16 after a long, brave battle with breast cancer. An artist and Senior Partner and Manager of Editorial Services at Ogilvy & Mather, she was recently honored as the 2006 Colby Artist at the Buffalo Seminary. Predeceased by her father, Earle L. Kassirer 
 MAILMAN--Virginia Shevlin, on May 19, 2007 at her home in Manhattan after a long illness, also of Glen Cove, NY. Widow of the late Norton W. Mailman; beloved mother of Bruce W. Addison and Christopher B. Mailman of New York and Matthew D. Addison of Los Angeles, CA; grandmother of five. Fun
 OSTRAU--Eleanor Tananbaum died peacefully at home in Mamaroneck, NY, on May 20th, 2007. Born August 20th, 1926, in the Bronx to Abraham Tananbaum and Feida Levin Tananbaum. She is survived by her husband, Hon. Stanley S. Ostrau; daughters Amy Ostrau and Gail Ostrau Young; granddaughter Sari
 ZULLER--Harriet. Died on May 21, 2007, at age 75, after bravely battling cancer. A dedicated teacher. An adoring mother to Michael and Dana, Randi, Eliane and Adrian. A treasured grandmother to Devon, Jillian, Geoffrey, Chelsea, Daniel, Alexander and Chloe, and above all a devoted wife of 5
 Marian Radke-Yarrow, a researcher in child psychology who conducted many influential studies on a range of sensitive issues -- including prejudice among elementary school pupils, depression in very young children and indications of altruistic impulses even in 1-year-olds -- died on Saturday
 BAMBERGER--Maria. It is with great sadness that Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion records the death of Maria Bamberger, the dear wife of the late Fritz Bamberger, my teacher, beloved member of the HUC-JIR faculty and treasured advisor to my predecessors, Nelson Glueck and Al
 BURDE--Helene, on May 21, 2007, in Sarasota, FL. Born in Providence, RI, she was beautiful, gracious, loving, funny, strong and wise. Her concern was for others. She lived most of her adult life in Bridgeport, CT, and Boynton Beach, FL. She was married to Eli Burde for 69 years until his de
 FITZGIBBON--Sally, age 94, died of natural causes on May 19, 2007. Her husband, Les, died in 2003. She is survived by her daughter Sally Kjellgren, her son Herb, and her especially beloved grandson Christopher. She was a friend to all and will be greatly missed by those who loved her.      
 KIMMEL--Dana Spector, died on May 22, 2007. Beloved wife of Scott. Devoted mother of Jack, David, and Lily. Loving daughter of Joseph and Janet Spector, and daughter-in-law of Louis Kimmel and the late Charlotte. Dearest sister of Douglas Spector and Lisa Rothkrug. Services Thursday, 9:30am
 MAILMAN--Virginia Shevlin, on May 19, 2007 at her home in Manhattan after a long illness, also of Glen Cove, NY. Widow of the late Norton W. Mailman; beloved mother of Bruce W. Addison and Christopher B. Mailman of New York and Matthew D. Addison of Los Angeles, CA; grandmother of five. Fun
 OSMAN--Beatrice (Skoblow) on May 19th, 2007. Loving wife of late Albert Osman, devoted and cherished mother, sister, aunt, cousin and friend. Survived by her children Norman Osman and Dr. Ellen Richter, Gayle Lopata, Iris and Steven Meier. She will be missed, and always remembered.       
 PALMER--Mary, died May 19 after a short illness. She was retired from Fairchild Publication, where she was executive secretary to the editor and also a columnist who reported on the Men's Ware Trade. She is survived by two sisters, Cynthia Gray of North Carolina, and Suzanne Coppel of New Y
 PYLE--Page Neville, of Short Hills and Mantoloking, NJ, passed away at Overlook Hospital in Summit on May 18, 2007 after a valiant seven year struggle with a rare lymphatic cancer. She was 67 years old. She was born in New York City on December 1, 1939, the third child of Gregg Neville and 
 SCHAEFER--Sylvia M., May 22, 2007. Loving mother of Faith Drucker and her husband Howard, Jill and her husband Ken Iscol, and Beth and her husband Victor Sperber. Cherished grandmother of Amy, Adam, Zachary, Kiva, Melysa, and Kimberly, and great-grandmother of Jacob. She will be deeply miss
 CRISCI-SANTANA--Anne, 76, died suddenly on May 16 at her home in Boca Raton. She is survived by Elisa, Christopher, and Maria, her children; Alex, her grandson; and Alfred, her brother. A mass will be offered on June 1 at 11am at St. Joan of Arc Church in Boca. The family requests only indi
 SILVERBERG--Shirley, 87, died peacefully at home May 19th. Beloved wife of the late Stanley Silverberg. Devoted mother of Margaret (Ira) and David (Ronne). Adoring grandmother of Steven, Laura, and Simon. Long time social worker and West Side community activist. We will miss her and love he
 BAMBERGER--Maria E., on May 21, at 88 years. Wife of the late Fritz Bamberger. Devoted to her children and stepchildren, Kochava and the late Yochanan Nussbaum, Michael and Ina Nussbaum, Michael and Phylis Bamberger, and Gabrielle Bamberger; beloved ''Savta Maria'' and Oma of Nurit Nussbaum
 HASKEL--Lucille. May 21, 2007. Adored wife of Sebastian for 67 years. Devoted mother of Joan. Beloved grandmother of Michael and Lauren. Cherished sister of Anita, Alex and Walter. Loving aunt to Carole, Robert and Susan. Great-aunt of Cristopher. She was loved by all and will live in our h
 HOROWITZ--Frances K. (Ginsburg), 97, of Scarsdale, New York, died on May 23, 2007. The beloved wife of the late Bernard Horowitz. She is survived by her loving sons Larry Horowitz and Dan Horowitz, her devoted daughtersin-law Beth Horowitz and Vicki Horowitz, her loving grandchildren Peter 
 JOHNSTON--Leslie (nee Berkman), wife of Derek Johnston, sister of Jane and Robert Berkman and sisterin-law of Solvig Berkman and Steven Wolfson, died May 16 after a brief illness. Leslie worked as a special education teacher for over twenty years for the Department of Education in the City 
 KIMMEL--Dana. Words can not express our overwhelming sadness. Dana was like a second mother to our son, Jacob. We will miss her very much. Susan, Josh, Julia, and Jacob Levy $(6$)KIMMEL--Dana Spector, died on May 22, 2007. Beloved wife of Scott. Devoted mother of Jack, David, and Li
 MAILMAN--Virginia Shevlin, on May 19, 2007 at her home in Manhattan after a long illness, also of Glen Cove, NY. Widow of the late Norton W. Mailman; beloved mother of Bruce W. Addison and Christopher B. Mailman of New York and Matthew D. Addison of Los Angeles, CA; grandmother of five. Fun
 PERLUCK--Gertrude, be loved wife for 63 years of Herbert Perluck, Professor Emeritus at Brooklyn College, passed peacefully at home in the company of her loving family on Monday, May 21. Gertrude, born on Staten Island, NY on December 5, 1916, was the daughter of the late Minnie and Samuel 
 PYLE--Page Neville, of Short Hills and Mantoloking, NJ, passed away at Overlook Hospital in Summit on May 18, 2007 after a valiant seven year struggle with a rare lymphatic cancer. She was 67 years old. She was born in New York City on December 1, 1939, the third child of Gregg Neville and 
 SCHAEFER--Sylvia. A loving aunt for over 55 years, who with great warmth and great humor we will dearly miss. She was an incredible mother to her girls, Jill, Faith, Beth and a loving friend. We will all miss her. Alan and Terry Blumenfeld       
 SCHMEDEL--Paulina, left us April 27, 2007, to share her love, strength, beauty, tenderness, wit, grace, athleticism, and bridge skills on a higher level. Kisses and hugs, min skat, from Scott, Anna, and Richard.       
 WARSHOW--Dorothy (nee Barnett), died on Tuesday, May 22, at the age of 81. She was a devoted and dedicated wife to Martin Warshow, and a loving mother to Mark Warshow. She had a heart of gold. She will be very much missed by her brother-in-law, sistersin-law, nephews, grand-nephews and niec
 CRISCI-SANTANA--Anne, 76, died suddenly on May 16 at her home in Boca Raton. She is survived by Elisa, Christopher, and Maria, her children; Alex, her grandson; and Alfred, her brother. A mass will be offered on June 1 at 11am at St. Joan of Arc Church in Boca. The family requests only indi
 BAMBERGER--Maria E. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Maria Bamberger. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memories bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Rabbi David M. P
 ENGEL--Syliva (SeRoy). Beloved wife of the late Philip. Devoted mother of Congressman Eliot Engel of New York and Dori (Devorah) Kaplan of Passaic, NJ, and motherin-law of Pat Engel and Jordan (Yehuda) Kaplan. Cherished grandmother of Julia, Jonathan, Philip, Dovid, Rachel, Yosef, Yaacov, N
 HOROWITZ--Frances K. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its longtime devoted member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Ellen Sunness, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan E. Blake, Rabbi $(6$)HOROWITZ--Frances K. (Ginsburg), 97, of Sca
 KIMMEL--Dana Spector, died on May 22, 2007. Beloved wife of Scott. Devoted mother of Jack, David, and Lily. Loving daughter of Joseph and Janet Spector, and daughter-in-law of Louis Kimmel and the late Charlotte. Dearest sister of Douglas Spector and Lisa Rothkrug. Services were held on Thu
 OGDEN--Jean Sullivan, 87, died Sunday, May 20, in Washington, D.C., following a long battle with Alzheimer's disease. As a longtime resident of Greenwich, Connecticut, she devoted herself to numerous charitable endeavors focusing on the arts and education. She is survived by a brother, thre
 PALIN--Caryl. Words cannot express our overwhelming sadness. We will miss the great warmth, humor and love of our lifelong friend. Shep, Susan, Steven, Rachel and Marc Forest $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. The Board of Directors, staff, and members of the Food Allergy Initiative mourn the loss 
 SCHAEFER--Sylvia. We will miss Aunt Syl's love, support and wonderful stories. She was a unique and rare beauty. Much love to all of our cousins; the Druckers, the Iscols and the Sperbers. Robin, Mark, Hallie and John $(6$)SCHAEFER--Sylvia. The officers, Board of Directors, and staf
 THURM--Evelyn, of Princeton, NJ, died peacefully on May 23, 2007. Born in Lowell, MA she was a former resident of Boston and a graduate of Beth Israel Hospital School of Nursing. Mrs. Thurm was a member of The Jewish Center, Princeton Historical Society and Jewish Women International. Wife 
 TYLER--Patricia, in Washington, D.C., on May 17. Pat was born in Baltimore and graduated from Goucher College. She leaves many friends in New York, Rome and Washington who admired her appetite for life and found their own lives brighter in her company.       
 CHANEY--Fannie Lee. The Family of Andrew Goodman mourn the loss of our dear friend Fannie Lee Chaney. May she rest in peace as she joins her son James. Carolyn and David Goodman, the mother and brother of Andrew Goodman       
 MICHAEL--Sylvia. She died May 24 at age 96. Wife of the late Louis. She lives on in memory to her children, grandchildren, great-grandchild.       
 PALIN--Caryl. To the entire Palin Family, we mourn your loss and extend our deepest condolences. Rich, Margaret, Eugene and Danny Wood $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home at Riverdale greatly mourn the passing of Caryl Palin. Caryl was a loving 
 SILVER--Irma Richling, on May 24th, 2007. Survived by her devoted husband of 60 years, Robert H. Silver, two daughters Susan Silver, and Robin Newman, her son-inlaw Demarest (Nick) Newman, her granddaughter Annabel Stephanie Newman and three step-grandchildren Lauren Stein, Stephen Newman, 
 FUCHS--Sylvia. Our lovely sister and aunt passed away on May 22nd, 2007, at her home in Boca Raton, FL. She was our helper and friend all her life. We will always remember her gentle kindness and her beautiful smiling face. She is survived by Albert and Judy Fuchs, and Melvin Fuchs, and her
 HOROWITZ--Frances K. (Ginsburg), 97, of Scarsdale, New York, died on May 23, 2007. The beloved wife of the late Bernard Horowitz and the loving sister of the late Dr. Meyer Ginsburg and the Lillian Lukashok. She is survived by her loving sons Larry Horowitz and Dan Horowitz, her devoted dau
 LEVITAN--Florence, of New Rochelle, NY, died on Thursday, May 24, at her home. She was 87. Florence, daughter of Harry and Goldie Husid, was predeceased in 2006 by her beloved husband George and in 2005 by her cherished daughter Geordie Levitan. She was also predeceased by her brother Harry
 PALIN--Caryl. To the entire Palin Family, we mourn your loss and extend our deepest condolences. Rich, Margaret, Eugene and Danny Wood $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. Our deepest regrets and condolences to Mickey and family. Caryl will always be treasured and remembered. The Hammerman & Dalton F
 SILVER--Irma Richling, on May 24th, 2007. Survived by her devoted husband of 60 years, Robert H. Silver, two daughters Susan Silver, and Robin Newman, her son-inlaw Demarest (Nick) Newman, her granddaughter Annabel Stephanie Newman and three step-grandchildren Lauren Stein, Stephen Newman, 
 SULZBERGER--Maye. May 28, 1910-November 26, 2005. Our darling Maye loved her birthday. And we loved her. Very very much. The Family       
 BAILEY--Helen Phelps. On the 5th anniversary of her death, she is remembered with affection and admiration by friends, family, colleagues and students. Professor of French Language and Literature for 43 years and Dean of Studies for 15 years at Barnard College, she was a graduate of Barnard
 FLASTER--Edith Reid. On May 26, 2007, after a long battle with cancer. Survived by her husband Gerald, sons Jeffrey and Michael, daughters-in-law Helen and Sandra, grandchildren Ariel and Jason, and her sister Anne Demner. Services Tuesday 1PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam A
 SWERN--Ruth, (nee Feingold). Beloved wife of Leonard. adoring mother of Anne and Susan Swern. Loving mother-in-law of Steven Brounstein. Extraordinarily devoted grandmother of Genna and Sam. Caring sister of Annie, Rosie, Sammy, Bea and the late Joe and Shirley. Service Tuesday, 2 PM at Mt.
 BAMBERGER--Maria E., on May 21, at 88 years. Wife of the late Fritz Bamberger. Devoted to her children and stepchildren, Kochava and the late Yochanan Nussbaum, Michael and Ina Nussbaum, Michael and Phylis Bamberger, and Gabrielle Bamberger; beloved ''Savta Maria'' and Oma of Nurit Nussbaum
 FENTON--Katharine Douglas died May 18 at her home in Pebble Beach, California. Mrs. Fenton, a widow since the death of her husband, Martin, in 1982, was known by her children and grandchildren as one who was always delighted to have them visit and who constantly made an especial effort to e
 GUTWIRTH--Gisele, 84. Beloved sister of Dr. Nelly Hartogs Wollman and Toni Gutwirth. Dearest aunt of Michael and Nancy. She loved and was loved by four generations of family and friends. Donations in her memory can be made to: ECHO 295 Rt. 59, Spring Valley, NY 10977.       
 PALIN--Caryl. Ohr Torah Stone Institutions of Israel and especially the children of our Efrat Nursery School mourn with sorrow the passing of Caryl Palin, beloved wife, life partner to Mickey, a philanthropist and humanitarian in her own right. May the Almighty comfort my very special, inti
 PLASSE--Sherley. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President $(6$)PLASSE--Sherley Pearl (Puner), 89 years. Beloved wife, sister, cousin, mother, grandmoth
 SWERN--Ruth, (nee Feingold). Beloved wife of Leonard. adoring mother of Anne and Susan Swern. Loving mother-in-law of Steven Brounstein. Extraordinarily devoted grandmother of Genna and Sam. Caring sister of Annie, Rosie, Sammy, Bea and the late Joe and Shirley. Service Tuesday, 2 PM at Mt.
 Gretchen Wyler, an actress in Broadway musicals in the 1950s and '60s who became known in later years as an animal-rights advocate, died on Sunday at her home in Camarillo, Calif. She was 75. The cause was complications of breast cancer, according to the Humane Society of the United
 CLAYTON--Joe Todd. The entire Continuum Health Partners community joins with our colleagues in the Legal Affairs Department in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Joe Todd Clayton, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague Jill E. Clayton, Esq., Corporate Vice President for Lega
 FLASTER--Edith. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member Edith Flaster. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Rabbi Peter J. Rubinstein Howard F. Sharfstein, President       
 GRASS--Louise. American Friends of The Hebrew University (AFHU) and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of our cherished friend Louise Grass. A dedicated humanitarian known for her work on behalf of Israel, the Jewish people and the cause of higher education, Louise Grass, 
 PALIN--Caryl. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and extend our deepest condolences to her family. James Mitchell and Tony Manning $(6$)PALIN--Caryl. The National Women's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the pas
 SCHWARTZ--Irene. We sadly note the passing of a great friend of the Barkin Family and a long time partner. Our deepest sympathies to Lois and Richard and their families. May this very good woman rest in peace. Stephen and Madeline Barkin $(6$)SCHWARTZ--Irene, died peacefully at home
 VAN BAAREN--Karren (nee Robertson), died at home in Devon, after a long illness, aged 61. Much loved by all her family and friends. She will be remembered with huge affection and respect, for her brilliant and warm personality. The Funeral service will be held at the Parish Church of St. Jo
 KING--Alice Gore. May 26, 2007 at her home in Hamden, CT. Daughter of the late Frederick King and Marion D. King. No survivors.       
 MESSELOFF--Lillian Vivian Levinson, wife of the late Charles R. Messeloff M.D., died peacefully on May 30, 2007. She was a devoted mom to Alice Fraenkel and Reva Greenberg, a loving motherin-law, supportive and concerned grandma and sweet, caring great-grandma. Her family will miss her. Oct
 SCHWARTZ--Irene. Brandeis University mourns the death of Irene Schwartz, a Brandeis Fellow and cherished friend. With her late husband, a longstanding Brandeis Trustee, her memory will live on through David and Irene Schwartz Hall. We extend our deepest sympathy to her son, Richard; her dau
 MacCALLUM--Gertrude Morris, of Chatham, NJ, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, died on May 28, 2007. Wife of the late Ian MacCallum. Graduate of Lasell College and Juilliard School. Honorary Trustee of the Valley Hospital. She is survived by her son Ian B. MacCallum, Jr. and wife Lissa; her grandso
