 Lucy Somerville Howorth, a lawyer who said her advocacy of women's rights was inspired by the campaign that won women the vote under the 19th Amendment, died on Aug. 23 at her home in Cleveland, Miss. She was 102. Mrs. Howorth watched from a crowded Statehouse gallery in Nashville o
 Kaaren Erickson, a soprano who was on the roster of the Metropolitan Opera for the last 12 years and whose repertory ranged from Handel oratorios to Philip Glass's most recent opera, died on Saturday at her home in Maryville, Tenn. She was 44. Lawrence Wasserman, her manager, said t
 Harriet Browne, a tap dancer, choreographer and teacher who performed with the Copasetics, died on Sept. 1 at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. She was 65 and lived in the Bronx. Her manager, Susan Goldbetter, said Ms. Browne had been ill for a long time but did not specify the caus
 Mother Teresa, the Roman Catholic nun who won the 1979 Nobel Peace Prize for her work among the poorest of the world's poor, died yesterday in Calcutta, India, where she had lived since her work with the destitute began five decades ago. She was 87. Mother Teresa was hospitalized se
 Angenette Martin, who specialized in grass-roots organizing and consulting for political campaigns and others, died last Saturday at her home in Sausalito, Calif. She was 50. The cause was breast cancer, according to Martin & Glantz, her consulting firm, founded in 1985. Bor
 Sally Blane, an actress who appeared in more than 100 films, died on Aug. 27 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 87. Although Miss Blane's career never equaled that of her sister Loretta Young, over four decades she acted in a wide variety of films, appearing with stars including W.
 Mary Sears, a researcher at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution for more than 60 years and a guiding editorial force behind several top scientific publications devoted to marine studies, died on Sept. 2 at her home in Woods Hole, Mass. She was 92. Early in Dr. Sears's career, socie
 Ann Dunnigan, an actress and translator, died on Sept. 5 at her home in Manhattan. She was 87. Ms. Dunnigan was born in Hollywood and grew up in San Francisco. She attended Principia College in St. Louis. After a brief career in the theater, which included an appearance on Broadway 
 Eleanor Pepper, a former chairwoman of Pratt Institute's department of interior design who was a longtime design consultant and decorated an early version of the United Nations Security Council meeting room, died on Sunday at her apartment in the Carnegie Hill section of Manhattan. She was 
 Connie Clausen, an actress and literary agent who began her career by riding circus elephants, died on Sept. 7 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, said Stedman Mays, an associate of Ms. Clausen's literary agency. Ms
 Judith Merril, one of the first female writers and editors to influence the direction of modern science fiction, died on Friday in Toronto, where she lived. She was 74. During and just after World War II, Ms. Merril was the only woman associated with a group of young science fiction
 Mary Weinberger, a lifelong advocate for the rights of people with muscular dystrophy, died on Sept. 8 at the Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, N.J. She was 89 and had lived in Long Beach, N.Y. Mrs. Weinberger had been hospitalized since June, when a coronary infection was dia
 Helen Jepson, a soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera and with other American companies in the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday at the Blake Memorial Hospital in Bradenton, Fla. She was 92 and lived in Bradenton. Ms. Jepson's attractive lyric soprano, preserved on recordings of
 Dr. Barbara D. Munk, an expert in the psychiatry of adolescence who worked with mentally ill mothers and their vulnerable infant children, died on Sept. 12 at New York Hospital after a seven-year battle with cancer. She was 72 and lived in Manhattan. Confronting one of society's dar
 Geraldine Mindell, who led the campaign to create the Jefferson Market Garden, an oasis of more than 200 varieties of flowers, shrubs and trees in the heart of Greenwich Village, died on Monday. She was 84. Mrs. Mindell, who lived in the Village for more than 50 years, died of lung 
 Gertrude S. Lookstein, who with her husband, Rabbi Joseph H. Lookstein, was a leader in the New York Orthodox community and active in a number of organizations, died on Sept. 9 at Mt. Sinai Hospital. She was 90. Her maternal grandfather, Rabbi Moses Z. Margolies, was the leader of C
 Myra Tanner Weiss, an unlikely Trotskyist whose radical vision of an egalitarian, collectivist society led her to organize migrant farm workers, rail against racism, make two quixotic mayoral races in Los Angeles and run for Vice President of the United States three times on the Socialist W
 Laura Margolis, who helped rescue thousands of Jews fleeing persecution during World War II, died on Sept. 9 at the home of a nephew, James A. Margolis, in Brookline, Mass. She was 93 and lived in Brookline. Born in Istanbul, where her father was a doctor to the Sultan of Turkey, Ms
 Kathy Keeton Guccione, who helped found Penthouse magazine in the United States with her husband, Bob Guccione, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. She was 58 years old and lived in New York. The cause was complications from surgery to bypass an obstruction in 
 Shirley Clarke, an Academy Award-winning filmmaker, a champion of independent filmmaking and a missionary for video as a force in communications, died on Tuesday at the Palliative Care Center of Beth Israel Deaconness Medical Center in Boston. She was 77 and lived in Carlisle, Mass.        
