 Emilia Sherman Maurer, who put the Rockettes through their paces from the gala opening of Radio City Music Hall on Dec. 27, 1932, until she retired as director of the dancers more than 40 years later, died on Friday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhassett, L.I. She lived in Point L
 Sandy Dennis, who as a young actress in the 1960's entranced Broadway and Hollywood with performances that won her two Tony awards and an Academy Award, died on Monday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 54 years old Although the exact cause of her death was not known, Ms. Dennis
 Sandy Dennis, who as a young actress in the 1960's entranced Broadway and Hollywood with performances that won her two Tony Awards and an Academy Award, died on Monday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 54 years old. Although the exact cause of her death was not known, Ms. Denni
 Holly Stevens, an editor who devoted much of her career to writing about and editing the work of her father, the poet Wallace Stevens, died on Wednesday at her home in Guilford, Conn. She was 67 years old. She died of lung cancer, said Ruth Hein, a friend. Ms. Stevens's edit
 Mary Osborne, one of the few women to gain jazz stardom as a guitarist and the first woman to play the electric guitar professionally, died on Wednesday at Mercy Hospital in Bakersfield, Calif. She was 70 years old. She died of liver failure as a result of cancer, said her son Ralph
 Kathryn Beliveau Feuer, a scholar of Russian literature who ruffled the Soviet authorities by befriending dissident intellectuals during the cold war, died Sunday at The Cedars rehabilitation center in Charlottesville, Va. She was 65 years old and lived in Charlottesville, where she was a p
 La Lupe, a singer who was known during the late 1960's as the Queen of Latin Soul, died on Feb. 28 at Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx. She was 53 years old. She died of cardiac arrest, a hospital spokesman said. La Lupe had a raspy voice and an uninhibited stage presence; she 
 Inez Camprubi Mabon, a former publisher of the La Prensa Spanish-language newspaper in New York City, died on Friday at her home in Southbury, Conn. She was 80 years old and also lived in Greenwich, Conn. She died of cancer, a relative said. Mrs. Mabon ran La Prensa from 195
 Amy Ogden Welcher, a founder and first national president of Church Women United, a national ecumenical organization, died on Feb. 21 at her home at Avery Heights in Hartford. She was 104 years old. She died of heart failure, a family member said. In 1941, several women's ch
 Maria-Helena Vieira da Silva, a painter prominently associated with the School of Paris, died in Paris on March 6. The Portuguese-born artist was 83 years old and had lived in Paris since 1928. She died of cancer, said a spokeswoman for the French Ministry of Culture. Althou
 Heidi Draper, who as Heidi Vosseler was a member of George Balanchine's first American ballet company, died on Monday at her home in Woodstock, N.Y. She was 74 years old. She died of lung cancer, said her daughter, Pamela. Miss Vosseler danced from 1935 to 1938 with the Amer
 Evelyn Lord Smithson, a professor of classics and a noted archeologist who studied Greece in the Homeric age, died on Monday at her home in Amherst, N.Y. She was 68 years old. She died of cancer, according to the State University of New York at Buffalo, where she was on the faculty.
 Heidi Draper, who as Heidi Vosseler was a member of George Balanchine's first American ballet company, died on Monday at her home in Woodstock, N.Y. She was 74 years old. She died of lung cancer, said her daughter, Pamela. Miss Vosseler danced from 1935 to 1938 with the Amer
 Shirley Ullman Wedeen, a Brooklyn College educator and past chairwoman of the City University's Faculty Senate, died on Thursday at home in Brooklyn. She was 65 years old and died of cancer, her family said. Dr. Wedeen taught education courses at Brooklyn College since 1948 
 Helen Deutsch, the award-winning screenwriter for "Lili," "I'll Cry Tomorrow" and "The Unsinkable Molly Brown" and co-author of "National Velvet," died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85 years old. She had been under nursing care and died of natural causes, the medical e
 Helen Deutsch, the award-winning screenwriter for "Lili," "I'll Cry Tomorrow" and "The Unsinkable Molly Brown" and co-author of "National Velvet," died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85 years old. She had been under nursing care and died of natural causes, the medical e
 Myra de Haven Woodruff, a specialist in child development who helped shape the modern nursery-school system during and after World War II, died on Friday at Medford Leas, a retirement community in Medford, N.J., where she had lived for the last 20 years. She was 95 years old. Miss W
 Alice Lee Marriott, an anthropolgist and author who helped popularize American Indian culture and the role of Indian women, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Oklahoma City, Okla. She was 82 years old and lived in Oklahoma City. She died of heart failure, said Margaret Lefranc Schoo
 Elinor White Montgomery, until recently the board chairwoman of the New York City School Volunteer Program, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 54 years old. She died of complications of cancer, her family said. Mrs. Montgomery's volunteer work also included 
 Cecile Ruth Sands, who served for six years as the only woman on New York City's Board of Education and also worked for charitable causes, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91 years old. She died of a heart attack, her family said. After her surprise appointme
 Lettie Gay Carson, who fought to save railroad service both in New York and Pennsylvania, died on Wednesday at her home in Newtown, Pa. She was 91 years old. She died of congestive heart failure, her daughter, Sally Carson, said. Mrs. Carson, who was born in Pike County, Ill
 Ellen H. Johnson, an influential art historian and curator who taught at Oberlin College in Ohio for 38 years, died yesterday at her home in Oberlin. She was 81 years old. She died of cancer, said Elizabeth A. Brown, the curator of modern art at the museum. At the time of he
 Roberta Bender Grossman, the president and publisher of Zebra Books, died on March 13 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of cancer, said Walter Zacharius, the chairman of Kensington Publishing Corporation, wh
 Catherine Wolkonsky, a French and Russian teacher for 50 years and founding chairman of the Slavic Department at the State University of New York at Albany, died on Thursday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 96 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y. She died af
 Lucy M. Lewis, a leading American Indian potter, died on March 12 in the hospital of the pueblo where she lived, in Acoma, N.M. Her birth date was never recorded, but she was believed to be 93 years old, her family said. She died after a long illness, said her daughter, Emma Lewis M
 M. Jean Herman, a brownstone holdout around whom a 31-story office tower was built opposite Bloomingdale's, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 69 years old. She died of cancer, her family said. A graduate of Barnard College, Miss Herman worked as a market resea
 Nancy Walker, who played Rhoda's mother, McMillan and wife's housekeeper and a paper-towel-promoting waitress in television commercials, along with a string of brassy, loudmouthed cutups on Broadway, died yesterday at her home in Studio City, Calif. She was 69 years old. She died of
 Mary Ann Herman, a leading folk-dance teacher and an authority on folk-dance traditions, died on Monday at her home in North Babylon, L.I. She was 79 years old. She died of heart failure, said her husband, Michael Herman. With the idea that dancing was for everyone, Mr. and 
 Nancy Walker, who played Rhoda's mother, McMillan and wife's housekeeper and a paper-towel-promoting waitress in television commercials, along with a string of brassy, loudmouthed cutups on Broadway, died on Wednesday at her home in Studio City, Calif. She was 69 years old. She died
 Roberta Laidlaw Forbes, the former wife of the late Malcolm S. Forbes, the publisher, died on Wednesday at her home in Bedminster, N.J. She was 67 years old. An announcement from Forbes Inc. in New York said she died of lung cancer. Mrs. Forbes, a native of Englewood, N.J., 
 Anita Colby, perhaps the nation's first "supermodel" and known as "The Face" after her picture appeared on the cover of Time magazine, died yesterday at her home in Oyster Bay, L.I. She was 77 years old. Miss Colby died of lung disease, her sister, Francine Okie of East Greenwich, R
 Margaret R. Weiss, an author and photography editor, died on Monday at her home in New York City. She was 69 years old. She died of cancer, said her cousin, Michael M. Engel. Miss Weiss was the author of "Ben Shahn: Photographer," a 1973 study of the photographic work of the
 Naome Lewis, a longtime magazine editor, died on March 18 at her home in Manhattan. She was 67 years old. She died of bone marrow cancer, her family said. Mrs. Lewis began working at Trains magazine in Milwaukee before World War II. In the mid-1940's she joined McFadden Publ
 Betty Lou Haydnet Ourisman, a former board member of the Arena Stage and Ford's Theater in Washington, who was long active in philanthrophic and cultural organizations in the capital area, died yesterday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. She was 66 years old and lived in Chev
 Leueen MacGrath, an actress and playwright who co-wrote the 1955 Broadway musical "Silk Stockings" with her third husband, George S. Kaufman, died on Friday at her home in London. She was 77 years old. Her stepdaughter, Anne Kaufman Schneider, said Miss MacGrath died after complicat
