 COLLINS--Henrietta B., on February 28, 2007, at age 98. Predeceased by her husband Frank, sons Frank and Steve, and granddaughter Meryl. Survived by her loving daughter Kathy, grandsons Brian (Sarah) and Darren (Natalie), great - grandsons Spencer, Liam, and Riley, and daughter-in-law Barba
 SMALL--Mary, One of the great singing stars, has died of natural causes. She is survived by her sister, daughter and two grandchildren. Funeral is private.       
 THOMPSON--Allyn. Beloved wife of William Peterson, passed away February 22, after a brief illness. Cherished friend of so many, her inquiring mind, insatiable curiosity, sharp wit, love of animals, and deep compassion for people will be deeply missed. She is also survived by her sister Ally
 Mai Ghoussoub, who weaved together elements of her Arab heritage and an avant-garde sensibility to make bold, provocative statements as a publisher, author, sculptor, journalist and playwright, died on Feb. 17 in London. She was 54. Her death was announced by Saqi Books, her publish
 COLLINS--Henrietta B., on February 28, 2007, at age 98. Predeceased by her husband Frank, sons Frank and Steve, and granddaughter Meryl. Survived by her loving daughter Kathy, grandsons Brian (Sarah) and Darren (Natalie), great - grandsons Spencer, Liam, and Riley, and daughter-in-law Barba
 FISHBANE--Leah. The Jewish Theological Seminary mourns the tragic and untimely passing of Leah Fishbane, wife of Professor Eitan Fishbane of the Philosophy Department of JTS. Her deep compassion, keen mind, and zest for life will be sorely missed. May Eitan, Aderet, and the extended Fishban
 GLICKMAN--Donna. Schmoop, you were and always will be the great love of my life. My heart is broken and I can't believe I will never again see your face, hear your laugh, touch your beautiful red hair. I'm lost without you babe. I love you... which much. Love, Steady $(6$)GLICKMAN--
 MILLER--Rosetta. A memorial service for Rosetta Averil Miller, beloved wife of thirty years of Samuel C. Miller, Director Emeritus of The Newark Museum, will be held on Friday, March 16, 10:30 am, at The Church of Saint Mary the Virgin, 145 West 46th Street, New York City. A native of South
 RESNICK--Libby, 86, of Brooklyn, NY died Friday, February 23. A teacher of the deaf, she was an inspiration to all. She was a leader at B'nai Israel in Brooklyn. Libby was the beloved wife of the late Sidney Resnick, the loving mother of Penny Novich, and Steve Resnick. Libby, revered by he
 THOMPSON--Allyn. Beloved wife of William Peterson, passed away February 22, after a brief illness. Cherished friend of so many, her inquiring mind, insatiable curiosity, sharp wit, love of animals, and deep compassion for people will be deeply missed. She is also survived by her sister Ally
 ZLOTNIK--Rosalie. On February 28, 2007, Rosalie Zlotnik, formerly of Rockville Centre, died peacefully at home. She was the loving wife of 60 years to Meyer, devoted mother of Marc and wife Joan and Ellen and husband Matthew, and adored grandmother of Julie, Jessica, Sarah and Deborah. Rosa
 ARNABOLDI--Sheila, 73, peacefully at home on March 2, 2007 after receiving a diagnosis of cancer this past Christmas. She is remembered with love by her family and friends. A memorial service will be held at Stanwich Congregational Church, 202 Taconic Road, Greenwich, CT on Friday, March 9 
 DANTUONO--Louise M., M.D. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at the NYU School of Medicine and The Bellevue Obstetrical and Gynecological Society mourn the death of Louise M. Dantuono, M.D. She became the first female resident of the department in 1943 and the first female faculty 
 MADDEN--Kathleen, 57, on February 25. Dear sister of Robert and John and daughter of the late Edward and Corinne, beloved godmother, niece and cousin, and cherished friend of many. Kathy was a respected magazine editor at Conde Nast Publications, Hearst Corporation and Grunar & Jahr USA. A 
 ROGERS--Irene L. (Milligan), 89, of Easthampton, MA died February 19, 2007. Wife of Burton H. Rogers of Monson, MA and sister of Doris Hamilton-Jones, both deceased, she was born November 12, 1917 in Brooklyn, NY and lived in Port Washington for 40 years. She is survived by son David, daugh
 BLOOM--Jennie, incomparable and adorable, died February 22, 2007 at the age of 89 in Naples, Florida. Born in New York City's Lower East Side, she raised her family in Brooklyn and Long Island where she was known for being an avid walker. Jennie and her husband Manny discovered and fell in 
 COPLAND--Helen Weiner, rest in peace dear friend, you will be remembered with love. Isabel $(6$)COPLAND--Helen. In loving memory, we bid farewell to Helen Copland; loving wife of the late Milton Copland; beloved mother of Nancy and Ronda; devoted grandmother to Eric, Emily and Peter
 FEINBERG--Ceil. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Ceil Feinberg and extends its sincere sympathy to the members of her family.       
 FRISCH--Pearl. Died February 28th, in Buffalo, NY, at age 94. Widow of Emanuel Frisch, survived by her three children, Susan Sagor (Elliot), Michael (Jo Freudenheim), Lewis (Mickie), eight grandchildren and one great-grandchild.       
 FUCHS--Eleanora W. (Kearney). Long-time resident of New York City and employee of the United Nations, Nora died peacefully on Wednesday, February 28, 2007, at the Belmont Long Term Care Facility in Belleville, Ontario, at the age of 88. Predeceased by husband Werner Fuchs and brother Graham
 HERMAN--Molly (Mary-Ellen)(of Hyde Park, NY and NYC), on March 3, after a lengthy battle with brain cancer. Beloved wife of Harold S. Herman for nearly 54 years. Molly was born on Jewell Island, Maine, attended Mary Washington College in Virginia, and obtained her B.A. from Boston Universit
 KIRBY--Shirley Anna Hopkins Taylor, died peacefully Tuesday, February 27, 2007, in Billings, MT following a stroke. She was born September 29, 1923, in Chicago. Shirley was the only child of Farley Hopkins and Margaret von Maur Hopkins. She was raised in Chicago and Lake Forest and graduate
 MADDEN--Kathleen, 57, on February 25. Dear sister of Robert and John and daughter of the late Edward and Corinne, beloved godmother, niece and cousin, and cherished friend of many. Kathy was a respected magazine editor at Conde Nast Publications, Hearst Corporation and Grunar & Jahr USA. A 
 MEARA--Naomi M., Ph.D. The Nancy Reeves Dreux Professor of Psychology Emerita at the University of Notre Dame died February 28 at the age of 70. Originally from Columbus, Ohio, Naomi spent nearly two decades as a member of Notre Dame's Psychology faculty, where she served a term as chair of
 MINDICH--Dorothy, North Miami Beach, FL, died February 27th prior to her 102nd birthday. Beloved wife of Samuel, who predeceased her. Devoted Mother to David and predeceased son Arthur. Adoring grandmother to Julie Kampf and Jeffrey and Vicky Mindich. Great-grandmother to Adam Kampf, Jeremy
 REED--Amy Earl, 45, of Darien, Connecticut. Formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, died Saturday February 24, 2007. She is survived by her loving and beloved sons John and George Reed, her parents Janet and Donald Earl of Boynton Beach, Florida, her brother and his wife, John and Morgan Earl, her siste
 STEDMAN--Patricia Hallowell Stedman (Mrs. Theodore Winthrop Stedman), 88, of Bloomfield and Farmington, CT and Fishers Island, NY, died Friday, February 23rd, 2007. Born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on May 1st, 1918, daughter of the late John and Emma Hallowell, she attended Miss Porters S
 THIERIOT--Frances Thornton. Franci Thieriot of Santa Monica, California, passed away on February 13, 2007. Born May 20, 1953, in Glen Cove, New York, she lived in Southern California, for 37 years. Franci graduated Cum Laude from UCLA in 1984 with a degree in Chemistry and was a member of t
 TRUE--Lisa (Leeba), of Berkeley, CA, and Borough Park, Brooklyn, daughter of Geraldine (Kaplan) and Tom True, sister of Merlyn Messenger, died Friday, February 9th, at home in Berkeley, CA, after a long battle with cancer. Family and friends remember her as an artistic, kind, creative spiri
 WALLANT--Rena. Died January 24, 2007 at the age of 84. Interred at Mt. Carmel Cemetery with her husband Charlie       
 WENNIK--Janet M., Ph.D. On February 26, 2007 at the age of 87. Devoted mother of Joel and Simone Wennik, grandmother of Miles and William Wennik. Her loss is mourned by the many students and friends she inspired during her life.       
 ZALKIN--Bernice. The Board and Staff of the YMYWHA of Washington Heights and Inwood deeply mourn the passing of Bernice Zalkin, a longterm board member and valued volunteer. Our heartfelt condolences to her family. She will be missed. Martin G. Englisher, Executive Vice President Jeffrey M.
 ALTMAN--Sylvia, died on March 4, 2007 in her 99th year. Wife of the late Joseph Altman, beloved mother of Ethelind Altman Wiener (Rene), Toby Marcus (Reubin), Mary Bernholtz (Allen), beloved grandmother of Phyllis (Don Lister), Ellen Wiener, Peter Wiener (Lisabeth), Bruce Wiener (Karen), Ez
 BRODMAN--Estelle, Scholar, Teacher, Researcher, died March 1, 2007. Dr. Brodman, who was born June 1, 1914, died at her Meadow Lake Hightstown, NJ home of natural causes. During a long and distinguished career in the field of medical librarianship, Dr. Brodman served as director of the Army
 DeCARLO--Theresa Grace (nee LaVerde) passed away peacefully on March 4, 2007. She was 88 years old. Theresa was the loving wife of the late Dr. Joseph DeCarlo, devoted mother of Enes and John, adored grandmother of Jennifer and Kristen, and beloved mother-in-law of Kathleen. Our lives will 
 EPSTEIN--Ruth Meyer, on March 2, 2007. Daughter of the late Eugene and Agnes Meyer, wife of the late Dr. William A. Epstein, beloved mother of Karin Epstein Kuhns and Hal Meyer Epstein, loving grandmother of Jack and Katherine Kuhns. Reposing at McGrath Funeral Home, Bronxville, NY, 4pm-7pm
 SIMON--Rose. The Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art mourns the death of our dear friend and colleague, Rose Simon. We will cherish the enthusiasm and generosity with which she shared her extraordinary knowledge of 20th century fashion history, and will deeply miss the casua
 ZIMMERMAN - KAPLAN-Jeanie K., passed away February 5th. Dearest friend who will always remain in our hearts, to know her was to love her. Arlene and Marvin       
 ZISES--Ruth. Heartfelt condolences to Bernie, Siggy, Jay, Seymour and family on the loss of their beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Justin Hays Green Jenny Slayton $(6$)ZISES--Ruth. To ''Poppa'' and the entire Zises Family. Deepest sympathy upon your inconsolable loss. Bernie Weiss $(6$
 COHEN-PHILLIPS--Janice H., 75, of Somers, passed away March 2nd, 2007 after a courageous battle with lung cancer. A devoted wife of Lee Phillips and Gerald Cohen, she was also cherished by her children, Karen and Michael Levine and Richard Phillips. Adored by her grandchildren Matthew and A
 ALBERTINE--Elise Filker, of Belleville, NJ, passed away from a massive heart attack on Saturday, March 3, 2007. Born on November 1, 1916, in Manhattan, she was a genuine member of the greatest generation. Throughout her life, she displayed the courage and fortitude that is the hallmark of h
 EISNER--Lorraine, 79, of Bergenfield, NJ, on March 4, 2007. A Chemistry teacher of forty years at Bergenfield High School, NJ. Predeceased by her husband Bernard of 47 years. Survived by her son Peter, daughter Wendy, brother Dr. Jerry Gropper, and granddaughters Isabel and Marina. Donation
 FLUHR--Ruthlynn, on February 27th, 2007. Her exemplary courage and love of life was manifested in the grace with which she engaged her relentless disease. Beloved sister, sister-in-law, aunt and great-aunt. An artist of unflagging passion, integrity and commitment to her work. A love of ope
 HERRIFORD--Alma, died on February 25, 2007. Wake was held at Walter B. Cooke. On Tuesday, March 6, she will be interred in Shreveport, LA.       
 LESSALL--Frances Schlanger. Beloved wife of the late George Lessall, loving mother of Kenneth Lessall and Bonnie Bach (Gilbert), adoring grandma of Matthew Lessall, Nancy Bach, and Amy Markman (John), left us on March 4th at the age of 95. She was the consummate mother, only caring about he
 MARION--Barbara Housner. A special person who dedicated her life to helping others. Alive in our hearts, we will miss her always. Our heartfelt condolences to Ira, Jordan, Alison and family. Vicky, Pat, Dorrie and Joe $(6$)MARION--Barbara Housner. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yesh
 MULNICK--Ruth (Braverman), 89, of Long Branch, New Jersey died Saturday, March 3rd at home. She was born in Newark, New Jersey and grew-up in Irvington. She moved to Bradley Beach in 1940. She was past president of the Sisterhood and chair of its Board of Education of the Agudath Ahim Congr
 WENNIK--Janet M., Ph.D. February 26, 2007, age 87. Mother of the late Simone Wennik and surviving son Joel Wennik and wife Jennifer, parent of Dr. Wennik's twin grandsons, Miles and William. Two sisters and one brother-in-law survived: Lois and Mark Rubin of Santa Barbara, CA, and Roberta W
 ZEMSKY--Blanche NCJW NY Section mourns the passing of Blanche Zemsky, a valued volunteer and a devoted Board member. Sincerest condolences to all her loving family. Beatrice Kahn and Beth Mitchell, Co-Presidents Judith Golub, Executive Director       
 ZISES--Ruth. The board and staff of Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with sorrow the death of Ruth Zises, mother of our good friend Seymour Zises, and mother-in-law of Cathy, a valued trustee of our agency. Seymour and Cathy have been generous supporters and advocates of 
 ZUCK--Natalie (nee Feltenstein), on March 3rd at age 78, devoted wife, mother, grandmother and aunt. She is survived by her husband of 59 years Martin. Devoted mother of Barbra Zuck-Locker (Penny Zuckerwise) and Jeffrey and Erin Zuck and her grandchildren, the late Bayli, Oliver and Audrey 
 JONES--Laure (nee Macksoud). Died on March 3 from congestive heart faliure, peacefully at home in Douglaston (Queens). Born in New York City on May 21, 1917. Wife of Harry B. Jones. Survived by Alice Macksoud, her sister, and her sons, Peter Jones of Milton, MA, and Kevin Jones of Marietta,
 LESSALL--Frances Schlanger. Beloved wife of the late George Lessall, loving mother of Kenneth Lessall and Bonnie Bach (Gilbert), adoring grandma of Matthew Lessall, Nancy Bach, and Amy Markman (John), left us on March 4th at the age of 95. She was the consummate mother, only caring about he
 MARION--Barbara Joan, Left us all to soon and to young. Life partner and best friend of Husband Ira, adoring mother of Jordan (Nicole), Alison (Gary), loving Nana of Sydney, Alexis, Harmon. Sister to Richard Housner (Marlene) and sister-in-law to Dorothy and Dik Fraser. Caring aunt to Maris
 MOUTNER--Dale Gladstein, 47. Beloved wife of Lance, adored mother of Adam and Ethan, treasured daughter of Harvey and the late Joyce, adored and respected sister of Bruce and Jane. Dale fought longer and harder than anyone with the grace, dignity and passion that defined her. Dale was the m
 WENNIK--Janet M., Ph.D. February 26, 2007, age 87. Mother of the late Simone Wennik and surviving son Joel Wennik and wife Jennifer, parents of Dr. Wennik's twin grandsons, Miles and William. Two sisters and one brother-in-law survive: Lois and Mark Rubin of Santa Barbara, CA, and Roberta W
 WERTHEIM--Arlene (nee Person), 75, previously of Monsey, NY. Died of cancer at her home in Lake Worth, FL, on March 5, 2007. A loving and caring wife, mother, and grandmother. Beloved wife of 54 years to John. Cherished by her children Joshua, Sara, and David, and grandchildren Marc, Meliss
 ZUCK--Natalie. The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of God's Love We Deliver are saddened by the loss of Natalie Zuck, beloved mother of our Board Member, Barbra Locker. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Barbra Locker and her family. Karen Pearl, President & CEO and the GLWD Bo
 GOLDBERGER--Blanche Rubin, died March 5, 2007, at the age of 93 years. She and her late husband, Emanuel Goldberger, M.D., were longtime residents of Scarsdale, New York. A graduate of Hunter College and Columbia University, she also attended the Jewish Theological Seminary and studied at t
 MEYER EPSTEIN--Ruth. Hoff - Barthelson Music School mourns the passing of Ruth Meyer Epstein, a longtime member of our Board of Trustees and dear friend of the School. Her kindness made it possible for generations of students to acquire the skills to express, experience and enjoy a lifetime
 BLADES--Anne W., of Charlottesville, VA, formerly of New York City and Westhampton Beach, NY, died at her home on Tuesday, March 6th, 2007. Born in New York City, December 3rd, 1919, she was the daughter of the late Mrs. John Bright Lord and Captain Roger Wisner. She was the wife of the lat
 EPSTEIN--Pearl. The Officers, Board and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center, and our Fay J. Lindner Residences, extend heartfelt sympathy to Judith and Arthur Goldstein on the loss of their mother, and mother-inlaw, Pearl, a Lindner resident. She will be missed by all. Lawrence Simo
 FRANK--Jacqueline Anne, 61, of NYC, passed away on March 7, 2007. A loving wife, mother, grandmother, teacher, mentor and friend. Survived by Yitzchak Frank, her husband of 39 years, her son Yanai, daughter Vered, daughter-in-law Christy and grandchildren Eitan and Amir. Born in Capetown, S
 HIRSCH--Zelda. Beloved wife of the late Harry, loving mother of Elaine and Steven Glottstein, Anita and Arnold Friede, wonderful grandmother of Shelley and Jeffrey Bookstein, Alyssa and Stephanie Friede and adoring great-grandmother of Noah and Aaron Bookstein, dear sister of Ruth Seideman 
 KROUNER--Barbara J., beloved Mother, Partner, ''Nanny'' and friend passed away Tuesday, March 6, 2007, after a courageous battle with cancer. Barbara was a resident of Tarrytown and was born on January 25, 1944, in Manhattan and was the daughter of Harry and Helen Jacobson. She received her
 MOUTNER--Dale Gladstein, 47. Beloved wife of Lance, adored mother of Adam and Ethan, treasured daughter of Harvey and the late Joyce, adored and respected sister of Bruce and Jane. Dale fought longer and harder than anyone with the grace, dignity and passion that defined her. Dale was the m
 QUINN--Mary Theresa (nee Nettuno) on March 6, 2007 in her 94th year. Devoted wife of 70 years to the late Robert C. Quinn. Loving mother of Patricia. Reposing Thursday 2-4 and 7-9 pm at Riverdaleon-Hudson Funeral Home, 6110 Riverdale Avenue, Bronx. Mass of Christian Burial Friday 11 am at S
 YU--TSAI-FAN, M.D., Professor of Medicine Emeritus at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City, passed away peacefully at Mount Sinai Hospital on March 2, 2007, at the age of 96. Her legacy in discovering the cause of gout and making it a treatable disease lives on. Dr. Tsai-Fan Yu w
 BOTNICK--Ceil. Most devoted wife of the late Sam. Beloved mother of the late Elliott and the late Richard. She will be missed by her daughters-inlaw, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Family will receive at her home Sunday March 11, from 10-4pm.       
 KAMEN--Fay, peacefully on March 8, 2007, at the age of 92. Beloved wife of the late Ephraim. Loving mother of Barbara and Michael and mother-in-law of Sandy and Geoffrey. Devoted and cherished grandmother of Jeremy, Mathew, Jessica, Heather, Elise and Efrem. Blessed with 10 great-grandchild
 LISTFIELD--Helen, 80, of Boynton Beach, FL, died on March 6th, 2007. Beloved wife of 60 years to Walter. Loving mother of the late Michael, Jamie and Patrice, Amy and Ron, devoted grandmother of Adam, Amanda, and Matthew, dear sister of Joan. Helen was a beautiful lady who dedicated her lif
 McCULLOUGH--Louise V., of Lyford Cay, Bahamas, wife of the previously deceased Donald F. McCullough died February 27, 2007 in Greenwich, CT, after a long battle with lung cancer. She was 83. Prior to her retirement, Mrs. McCullough was a director in the fashion industry. She is survived by 
 MILLER--Rosetta. A memorial service for Rosetta Averil Miller, beloved wife of thirty years of Samuel C. Miller, Director Emeritus of The Newark Museum, will be held on Friday, March 16, 10:30 am, at The Church of Saint Mary the Virgin, 145 West 46th Street, New York City. A native of South
 SORKIN--Rosalie, 92, of Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Nat, beloved mother of Ira and Joel, beloved mother-in-law of Ellen, beloved grandmother of Roger, his wife Eva and Peter, beloved great-grandmother of Alina Natalia. A wonderful and caring mother and wife whose joy of li
 ZISES--Ruth. The Board of Directors of the Genesis Foundation and Genesis Centers in Israel mourn the loss of Mrs. Ruth Zises. Ruth's support of Judaism and Torah scholarship in Israel was unparalleled. Her devotion to her husband Bernie, her sons Seymour, Selig, and our President, Jay; her
 Rufina Amaya, who in 1981 saw Salvadoran troops slaughter her family and many others in her village, then, as the only witness, dedicated her life to telling about it, died Tuesday in San Miguel, El Salvador. She was 64. The cause was a stroke, said her daughter Marta. Mrs. 
 Natalie Bodanya, an American soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera in the 1930s and early '40s and who later became a voice teacher, died on Sunday in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 98. Her death was announced by her son, Paul Gorman. Natalie Bodanskaya -- she later shor
 BRENT--Liane Beebe, beloved wife of Lt. Col. W.I. Christopher Brent for these past 27 years, died peacefully at home surrounded by her loving family in New York City on March 8, 2007. Formerly, Liane was married to Frederick S. (''Fritz'') Beebe, who died in 1973 after serving as Chairman o
 DOBLIN--Dorothy (Dotty), of Hackensack, NJ, passed away peacefully at home March 8, 2007, 3 months short of her 93rd birthday. She was the daughter of the late Jacob and Rose Blum of East Orange, NJ, the widow of Philip Doblin, who predeceased her in 1994, and is survived by her daughters, 
 SORKIN--Rosalie, 92, of Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Nat, beloved mother of Ira and Joel, beloved mother-in-law of Ellen, beloved grandmother of Roger, his wife Eva and Peter, beloved great-grandmother of Alina Natalia. A wonderful and caring mother and wife whose joy of li
 ZISEN--Ruth. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member Ruth Zisen. Our heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas President Lawrence Glass       
 Marjabelle Young Stewart, who was widely known as the Queen of Couth for her vast, genteel empire of books and classes about etiquette, died March 3 in Kewanee, Ill. She was 82 and had lived in Kewanee for many years. The apparent cause was pneumonia, her husband, William E. Stewart
 BADER--Amanda, age 51, died February 28, 2007 in Ocala, FL from injuries sustained while doing what she loved best, riding her horse in an Eventing competition. She leaves a very large hole in the lives of her husband, Philippe Steinmann, her parents Bob and Helen Bader, her sister Stephani
 BOIARDI--Paulette M, passed away peacefully at her home in New York City on March 8, 2007. She was born on October 31, 1920 in New York City, the daughter of Paul and Josephine Boiardi. Her father was co-founder of Chef Boyar-dee. Paulette worked for many years as the Accessories Editor for
 BOTNICK--Ceil. Most devoted wife of the late Sam. Beloved mother of the late Elliott and the late Richard. She will be missed by her daughters-inlaw, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Family will receive at her home Sunday March 11, from 10-4pm.       
 BRENT--Liane Beebe, beloved wife of Lt. Col. W.I. Christopher Brent for these past 27 years, died peacefully at home surrounded by her loving family in New York City on March 8, 2007. Formerly, Liane was married to Frederick S. (''Fritz'') Beebe, who died in 1973 after serving as Chairman o
 COHEN--Alice. Our beloved Alice, founder of Alice Travel passed away on March 6, 2007. One of a kind, a true legend in the travel community. She will be truly missed. Our condolences to the family. Alice Travel Jerry Davis, President & Staff $(6$)COHEN--Alice, 89, Lantana, FL, died 
 de RHAM--Frances Blagden, of Tryon, NC, formerly of Tuxedo Park, NY, died peacefully on February 27, 2007 at the age of 87. Mrs. de Rham was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. F. Meredith Blagden of Manhattan, NY; and is survived by her sister, Mrs. Barbara Sisson of Lincoln, MA, her son, Mr. Mic
 ISRAEL--Jinni Y., 1972 to 2007, passed away unexpectedly. She was the treasure of the lives of her father and mother, Henry and Davee, and of her brothers Robert and David, and sister-in-law Dawn. She was a delicate flower whose end came too soon. She was wonderfully accomplished in so many
 KALIN--Rita J., July 21st, 1948, to March 5th, 2007. Beloved daughter of Estelle and the late Sam Kalin. Adored sister of Alan (Charlene) Kalin. Succumbed to cancer after a seven year fight. She was a person who cared more for others than herself.       
 KANTOR--Margaretha Clara Smulders, age 81, died on March 6, 2007. Born and raised in Indonesia of Dutch parents, Lily and Bernardus Smulders. She survived four years in a Japanese internment camp during WWII, where her strength of character and striking looks earned her the nickname, ''The 
 REICHBART--Ruth G., of Ridgewood, New Jersey died on March 5, 2007 at age 92. She and her late husband, Joseph, were long time residents of New York City, and had summered in Seaview, Fire Island. Raised in Elizabethtown, a small village in the high Adirondacks, by her parents Alexander and
 SORKIN--Rosalie. The American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Rosalie Sorkin, a loving parent and humanitarian devoted to Israel, the Jewish people and the cause of higher education. AFHU Guardians, Rosalie and Nat (z''l) Sorkin w
 TENNEY--Dr. Lillian Baum, M.D., died February 23rd at home in Princeton, New Jersey. She was 85. A memorial service will be held at the Princeton University Chapel Saturday, March 17th, at 1:00 pm followed by a reception at the Prospect House on the Princeton University campus. The youngest
 YU--TSAI-FAN, M.D., Professor of Medicine Emeritus at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York City, passed away peacefully at Mount Sinai Hospital on March 2, 2007, at the age of 96. Her legacy in discovering the cause of gout and making it a treatable disease lives on. Dr. Tsai-Fan Yu w
 TEBBEL--Kathryn. Died in her sleep in her 95th year. A good and full life, rest in peace beloved Katie. Athan, Sam, John and Roy Doliner       
 KELTNER--Margot A. 76. Of Chappaqua, NY. Passed away peacefully March 10, 2007. Margot was a department head for Letters to the Editor of Fortune Magazine, until her retirement in 1996. Service private. The Dorsey Funeral Home Inc., 14 Emwilton Place, Ossining, NY 10562. 914-941-0167. www.d
 RICHARD--Jane S., 87, of Vero Beach, FL and York Harbor, ME, formerly of Brookville, NY died on Friday, March 9th, 2007 at Indian River Medical Center in Vero Beach. A loving wife, mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother, she is survived by her beloved husband of 65 years, H. Van B. Richar
 SELLA--Aviva, 80, died tragically and suddenly on March 10, 2007, as a result of a fire in her apartment. Born on May 1, 1926, in Palestine, Aviva was the eldest daughter of Abba and Rachel Freidis. Aviva was a member of the Palmach which fought for Israeli independence, and she remained in
 KAUFMAN LANG--Mildred. The family of Mildred Kaufman Lang sadly mourn her passing. She streaks through life like a comet in passionate pursuit to fill her canvas.       
 SPICEHANDLER--Ruth. Loving daughter, wife, mother, sister and grandmother. She lived her life with special generosity of kindness and love. Her insights and compassion will be missed by many. Services Monday 10 am at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 W. Broad St., Mount Vernon, NY.       
 Dr. Tsai-Fan Yu, a physician and researcher at Mount Sinai Medical Center who helped explain a principal cause of gout and evaluated early drugs to treat the disease that are still in use, died on March 2 in Manhattan. She was 95. The cause was respiratory complications after a stro
 Edith d'Addario, for 43 years the director of the Joffrey Ballet School in Greenwich Village, died on March 4 in Brooklyn. She was 84. The cause was complications of emphysema, said her daughter Diane Green of San Francisco. Mrs. d'Addario, known to generations of dancers, s
 BUDD--Dorothy, on March 12, 2007, one month before her 96th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Saul J. Budd, loving mother of Robert and Martin Budd, devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Family to gather at Frank E. Campbell 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Wednesday March 14, at 9:30 a
 COHEN--Shirley. The congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of it's longtime devoted member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Ellen Sunness, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jonathan Blake, Associate Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 COLEMAN--Julia Montgomery, (age 85) of Washington D.C. on March 10th, 2007 following a stroke suffered the previous day. Born in Tuxedo Park, NY, the daughter of Henry Eglinton Montgomery and Florence Gayley Montgomery. Graduate of St. Timothy's School and Sarah Lawrence College. Served in 
 FRIEDMAN--A. Lisa, Ph.D., Eminent psychologist. Beloved wife of Bill for 66 years, cherished mother and mother-in-law of Susanne, Nina, Paul, Myron and Jean, nonny and grandnonny, died on March 10, 2007, aged 88. Born May 2, 1918 into a poor, working class, Sephardic Jewish family in New Yo
 SELLA--Aviva, 80, died tragically and suddenly on March 10, 2007, as a result of a fire in her apartment. Born on May 1, 1926, in Palestine, Aviva was the eldest daughter of Abba and Rachel Freidis. Aviva was a member of the Palmach which fought for Israeli independence, and she remained in
 KOENIGSBERG--Ariela, passed away suddenly on Sunday March 11, her 71st birthday in a tragic accident. Devoted wife to the late Phillip. Beloved mother to Gil, and Joanne and Lee Stahl. Doting grandmother to Jillian. She was a giving person who always put others ahead of herself. No words ca
 Betty Hutton, a singer and actress celebrated as a blond bombshell of Hollywood musicals and comedies in the 1940s and 50s, died Sunday night at her home in Palm Springs, Calif., her executor announced yesterday. She was 86. The cause was complications of colon cancer, the executor,
 BUDD--Dorothy, on March 12, 2007, one month before her 96th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Saul J. Budd, loving mother of Robert and Martin Budd, devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Funeral services were held on Wednesday at the Wellwood Cemetery. Please call Frank E. Campbell fo
 FIUME--Sarah. It is with heartfelt sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed colleague. A dedicated member of the Board of Directors of the Sephardic Nursing and Rehabilitation Center and past president of the Ladies Auxiliary (LASHA). For many years Sarah gave of herself with great
 KAUFMAN--Esther Mazur. Our cherished sister died on March 10, 2007. She was a highly respected and honored Immigration lawyer who worked tirelessly for the poor and disenfranchised. She was instrumental in creating a mentoring program supported by AILA. Esther leaves grieving siblings Eva S
 FREILICHER--Gertrude D., age 96, died on Saturday, March 10, 2007. Wife of the late Morris Freilicher, mother of Morton and Yseult and Ira and Vivian; grandmother of David, Nancy, Judith, and Harlan; great-grandmother of Sophie, Sarah, Lucy and Jack; sister of James, Leonard, Blossom, and t
 Barbara Gittings, a prominent gay rights activist who a decade before the Stonewall rebellion of 1969 was agitating for the rights of lesbians and gay men, died on Feb. 18 at her home in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 74. The cause was breast cancer, said her partner, Kay Tobin Lahusen
 BUDD--Dorothy, on March 12, 2007, one month before her 96th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Saul J. Budd, loving mother of Robert and Martin Budd, devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Funeral services were held on Wednesday at the Wellwood Cemetery. Please call Frank E. Campbell fo
 CHAPMAN--Ruth, a native of New York City, passed away at the age of 82 on March 8. She enjoyed so many of the wonderful things the City has to offer including the opera, theater and concerts. She is survived by her caring cousins and many friends who will miss her sense of humor and keen ob
 CINER--Fay G. It is with profound sorrow that we record the parting of our cherished mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother, sister, and aunt who passed away peacefully with her family by her side Sunday evening. Fay valued ''learning for learning's sake'' and her wisdom touched the lives of
 PERKINS--Alvista (nee Patton), passed away peacefully in her sleep at the age of 99 on March 12, 2007 in Los Angeles, CA. She will be truly missed by family and friends.       
 REED--Barbara Ann, devoted mother and loving grandmother, died on March 4, 2007, after a courageous battle with cancer. She leaves behind family, friends and colleagues who will always remember her love of life, love of family and her beauty and elegance. She is survived by her daughters, K
 TILTON--Linda, on March 13, after a brief battle with cancer. Survived by her sister, Sandra Courtney, niece Lisa Courtney, Lisa's husband Steve Lynch, her devoted friend Ellen Vosbury and many friends. Visiting Friday at Crestwood Memorial Chapel, 33 Spring Street, NYC 1-3 and 5-7 pm. Serv
 FREILICHER--Gertrude D., age 96, died on Saturday, March 10, 2007. Wife of the late Morris Freilicher, mother of Morton and Yseult and Ira and Vivian; grandmother of David, Nancy, Judith, and Harlan; great-grandmother of Sophie, Sarah, Lucy and Jack; sister of James, Leonard, Blossom, and t
 CAHILL--Helen (nee Fitzsimmons), age 99, of New York City and East Hampton, Long Island died on March 14, after severe pneumonia. Widow of the late Robert Livingston Cahill, who died in 1984. Theirs was an idyllic marriage of 57 years. She is survived by their son, Robert L. Cahill, Jr. The
 CRYSTAL--Sheila (nee Maurer), formerly of Hewlett Harbor, NY, passed away peacefully at her home in Boynton Beach, FL after a long illness. Survived by her husband Leonard, son Stuart, and mother Eve Maurer. She was predeceased by her son Jonathan, father George Maurer, and brother Jerold. 
 GOLDENSOHN--Edith F., 75, passed away March 14, 2007, at home in Los Gatos, CA, after a short illness. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Sidney Goldensohn and daughter of the late Bella and Jack Friedman, dear stepmother, proud grandmother and cherished friend. Edith was a versatile, independent
 KINOY--Barbara Powers, of Brattleboro, VT, died on Sunday, March 11 at Brattleboro Memorial Hospital. She had been under treatment for pneumonia for the past five days, apparently improving, but suffered a sudden reversal and passed away peacefully early Sunday morning. Barbara was born and
 CAHILL--Helen (nee Fitzsimmons), age 99, of New York City and East Hampton, Long Island died on March 14, after severe pneumonia. Widow of the late Robert Livingston Cahill, who died in 1984. Theirs was an idyllic marriage of 57 years. She is survived by their son, Robert L. Cahill, Jr. The
 ENLOE--Bonnie, our deepest sympathies to our dearest friend Sharon Baum and her family on the loss of her magnificent mother. Bonnie loved her family, her church and her many friends. We loved Bonnie and will miss her. Love Brenda and the Johnson-Sargent family       
 FEUER--Rona B., died March 15th, 2007. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, friend. She passed away at home peacefully after a long illness. She is survived by her beloved husband Irwin of 52 years, her daughter Eve (Ron), her sons Lowell (Hope), Sherman (Carole), Jack (Allison) and her preci
 LIEBESKIND--Doreen S. (nee Polak), devoted wife, mother, and grandmother and dedicated physician, died on March 16, 2007 at age 62. She is survived by her husband Arie, children Marc, David, and Elise, and grandchildren Alexander, Bernard, Kayla, and Stella. Dori was cherished by her family
 Lucie Aubrac, a French schoolteacher whose melding of romance and resistance to Nazi occupation not only made her resemble Ingrid Bergman's character in ''Casablanca'' but also inspired popular films based on her own life, died Wednesday in a Paris suburb. She was 94. Her death was 
 CAHILL--Helen (nee Fitzsimmons), age 99, of New York City and East Hampton, Long Island died on March 14, after severe pneumonia. Widow of the late Robert Livingston Cahill, who died in 1984. Theirs was an idyllic marriage of 57 years. She is survived by their son, Robert L. Cahill, Jr. The
 CHESS--Stella. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of the New York University Child Study Center and the Bellevue Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry are saddened by the death of Stella Chess, M.D., the first Professor of Child Psychiatry at NYU. Dr. Chess created the legendar
 ENLOE--Emma. Our beloved mother and grandmother, Emma Bonnadell Clibourn Enloe, aged 90, died peacefully at her home in New York City, surrounded by family and friends, on March 15, 2007. Mrs. Enloe was born on her family's farm in Cole County, Missouri, where she grew up before graduating 
 FEUER--Rona. Our dearest Rona, you were too good and kind for such a tragic end due to ALS. We'll miss and love you. Rest in peace. Ginger and Mike $(6$)FEUER--Rona B. Mom, not a day will go by that I won't think of you -remembering your beauty, spirit, talent and bravery. You were 
 GREENE--Norma. Maimonides Medical Center mourns the passing of our dear friend Norma Greene, an esteemed Honorary Board Member and longstanding contributor to the medical center. Norma served as President of the Maimonides Women's Auxiliary for 26 years, led a dedicated group of volunteers,
 HAHN--Elizabeth Harris. October 13, 1916 to March 13, 2007. Elizabeth ''Betty'' Hahn, passed away of natural causes. Born in Bronxville, NY to Isaac F. and Elizabeth H Harris. Growing up in Tuckhoe and Rye. She married and moved to Kansas City Idaho Falls, Berkley, then Sacramento. She spen
 HATKOFF--Doris Wildove, beloved mother of Susan Patricof, Amy Hatkoff and Craig Hatkoff, mother-in-law of Alan Patricof and Jane Rosenthal, grandmother of Juliana and Isabella Hatkoff and Mark, Jonathan and Jamie Patricof, great-grandmother of Lily, Nina, Jack, Chloe and Riley Patricof, and
 HAUPTMAN--Frances, 95, of Jamaica Estates. Died March 16, 2007. Wife of the late Dan Hauptman. Loving mother to Henry, Susan, and Tony. Devoted grandmother to David, Barry and Carolyn and loving great-grandmother to Lindsey and Amanda. She is survived by her brother Sol and her dear and loy
 LIEBESKIND--Doreen S. (nee Polak), devoted wife, mother, and grandmother and dedicated physician, died on March 16, 2007 at age 62. She is survived by her husband Arie, children Marc, David, and Elise, and grandchildren Alexander, Bernard, Kayla, and Stella. Dori was cherished by her family
 ROTHMAN--Sylvia, a longtime resident of Cedarhurst, NY, died on March 15 at her home in Boca Raton, Florida. Mrs. Rothman would have been 92 years old on May 12. Mrs. Rothman was a devoted New Yorker who loved to visit art museums and galleries, and was a regular at the ballet, opera and th
 TAYLOR--Shirley Anna Hopkins Taylor, of Kirby, Montana died peacefully Tuesday, February 27, 2007, in Billings, MT following a stroke. She was born September 29, 1923, in Chicago. Shirley was the only child of Farley Hopkins and Margaret von Maur Hopkins. She was raised in Chicago and Lake 
 PILLICIOTTI--Jackie, March 10, 2007. Amazing, brilliant, private, brave. She'll be tremendously missed by parents Sue and Tony, sisters Marcia and Tina, niece and family Heidi, Rob and Ava, and many loving friends. Donations to Cabrini Hospice 227 East 19th St. NYC, 10003. Condolences to 75
 BROWN--Janet. Dearly beloved friend. We are so sad to lose you to this tragic automobile accident at the prime of your life. Your memory will be in our hearts always. Charlotte, Roger, Eric, Lisa, Beth, Peter, Marc, Ellen, and family $(6$)BROWN--Janet. I am so saddened by the tragic
 CAHILL--Helen (nee Fitzsimmons), age 99, of New York City and East Hampton, Long Island died on March 14, after severe pneumonia. Widow of the late Robert Livingston Cahill, who died in 1984. Theirs was an idyllic marriage of 57 years. She is survived by their son, Robert L. Cahill, Jr. The
 NASSAU--Belle, died on March 17th, 2007 at age 95. She was the devoted wife of Benjamin, and loving mother of Michael and Susan, and grandmother of Stephanie, William, and Lesley. Funeral service will be held on Monday March 19th, at Riverside Chapel, 25 West Broad St., Mt Vernon, NY at 12 
 SAYERS--Elliseva, 95, Irishborn newspaperwoman who became a public relations consultant in New York City for over 40 years, writer and poet, died February 27 in Manhattan. Trinity College Dublin Honors graduate, student of Samuel Beckett, and correspondent of George Bernard Shaw, she was ac
 SHIMON--Lucille (Libby) died Friday, March 16, 2007, with her beloved daughter and granddaughter at her side. Libby possessed a fierce intelligence and creative abilities in poetry and needle work. Her loyalty and devotion to those she loved were endless. She is survived by her loving husba
 WILLIAMS--Mary G. Died March 15, following a hospital procedure. Born in Cleveland, OH, she was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Quincy Adams of Youngstown, OH, and a graduate of Wooster College. She was 89. After working as a reporter on the Youngstown Vindicator, she served for 3 years d
 BROWN--Janet. Dearly beloved friend. We are so sad to lose you to this tragic automobile accident at the prime of your life. Your memory will be in our hearts always. Charlotte, Roger, Eric, Lisa, Beth, Peter, Marc, Ellen, and family $(6$)BROWN--Janet. We will miss the timeless grac
 CAHILL--Helen (nee Fitzsimmons), age 99, of New York City and East Hampton, Long Island died on March 14, after severe pneumonia. Widow of the late Robert Livingston Cahill, who died in 1984. Theirs was an idyllic marriage of 57 years. She is survived by their son, Robert L. Cahill, Jr. The
 CHALIAPIN--Helen (Helcia), age 98, formerly of Easton, CT and Marion, MA, died on March 6, 2007 at the Hebrew Senior Life Center in Roslindale, MA. Helcia was the beloved wife of portrait painter and Time Magazine cover artist Boris Chaliapin, daughterin-law of Russian operatic bass Feodor 
 DENHOFF--Lee. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board, Parker League, Administration & staff of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation are deeply saddened by the passing of Lee Denhoff, beloved mother of our friend, Trustee and Assistant Secretary of the Board, Mike Denhoff
 DORF--Trude, age 90, of Vienna, Austria and NYC died on March 19. Trude loved bridge and golf as well as her late husband Joseph. She is survived by her devoted daughter Marina and adored son-in-law A. Stephen Passloff M.D. as well as her beloved grandchildren Dr. Ellen Passloff (Mark Thomp
 HOUSTON--Anita Fouilhoux, 94, died Friday, March 16, at the Norwalk, CT. Hospital after a brief struggle with cancer. She and her husband, the late Isaac Hayne (Ike) Houston, raised their four children on Lambert Road in New Canaan, Connecticut. Mrs. Houston was active as a volunteer for th
 LIEBESKIND--Doreen, M.D. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President       
 LISTER--Carol. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of our longtime colleague and friend, Carol Lister, Deputy Director of Marketing and Communications. Drawing her nearly 40 years with ADL, Carol served as Director in our Columbus and New York Regional offices and held senior posi
 RODGERS--Doris. On March 17th, died peacefully, after a brief illness. Loving mother of Todd and Laura Joe, proud grandmother of Carly, Haley, Jordan and Mark, inseparable sister of Vicki Bernstein and beloved partner to her ''dear Danny''. Services private. In lieu of flowers, donations ma
 SOIFER--Enid McKenna. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem are profoundly saddened by the passing of our much loved and admired lay leader, Enid McKenna Soifer, a source of inspiration to her many friends and colleagues in the United States and Is
 GREENFIELD--Blanche. The New York Metropolitan Region, The United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism mourns the untimely passing of the beloved mother of our Executive Director Bruce F. Greenfield. We extend our condolences to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. Irwin Scharf
 Janet Brown, an influential fashion retailer who brought important designers to the wealthy clientele of her small store on Long Island, often before the designs were famous or even sold in Manhattan, died in a car accident on Friday near her home in Oyster Bay, N.Y. She was 59. Ms.
 BROWN--Janet. Dearly beloved friend. We are so sad to lose you to this tragic automobile accident at the prime of your life. Your memory will be in our hearts always. Charlotte, Roger, Eric, Lisa, Beth, Peter, Marc, Ellen, and family $(6$)BROWN--Janet, Dearly beloved Janet, you were
 KLEIN--Elizabeth, 95, passed away peacefully at her home on March 19, 2007. Funeral services, Sunday, March 25, 2007, 11:00 am at the Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 2nd Avenue, Manhattan.       
 ROBERTS--Nancy Lee (nee Rhodes), on Wednesday, March 14, 2007, of Easton, MD, beloved wife of John Joseph Roberts, devoted mother of Christopher Lee Roberts of Princeton, NJ, also survived by two granddaughters, Pierra A. Roberts and Eugenie Roberts, both of New York, NY, and one brother, W
 SCHNEIDER--Estelle C., age 80, much loved wife of Dr. Philip Schneider, passed away on March 19th. She is survived by her devoted husband, adoring children (Marcie Schneider and her husband Michael Ader, Cindy Bogorad and her husband Len Bogorad), five grandchildren, her sister and brother-
 SCHULMAN--Lenore, died Monday, March 19, 2007. A graveside service will be held Thursday at Beth David Cemetery in Elmont, NY. Survived by her brother Dr. Eugene Schulman of Denver, CO, her nephew Louis (Jennifer) Schulman of Littleton, and her niece Barbara (Scott) Knaster of Campbell, CA.
 LOCILENTO--Isabella, Lo vingly remembered on her 100 th birthday. The Reverend Warren C. Platt       
 Dr. Stella Chess, a child psychiatrist who helped develop and popularize the influential theory that children are born with distinct temperaments that can powerfully affect their outlook and relationship with their parents, died March 14 in Manhattan. She was 93. The cause was pneum
 ALTOMONTE--Barbara, on March 20, 2007. Born and raised in Brooklyn, NY, she lived in Crofton, MD, since 1966. Survived by her loving husband, John (aka Jack), two devoted sons Dennis and Paul, and three grandchildren, and two brothers, Bill Maughan and Gerard Maughan and two sisters, Judy A
 BROWN--Janet. Dearly beloved friend. We are so sad to lose you to this tragic automobile accident at the prime of your life. Your memory will be in our hearts always. Charlotte, Roger, Eric, Lisa, Beth, Peter, Marc, Ellen, and family BROWN--Janet. Your special, unique love, personal
 COHEN--Selma. After a long illness and just prior to her 94th birthday, Selma passed away on the morning of March 21, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Harris (Harold), devoted mother of Richard and Paula, loving grandmother of Jonathan, Lisa and the late Harris and adored greatgrandmother of 
 DANE--Goody. The Conservative Synagogue Adath Israel of Riverdale mourns the passing of Goody Dane, founder, and wife of first president Oscar Dane (z''l). A passionate advocate for children's Jewish education, her home and heart was open to the entire community. Rabbi Barry Dov Katz Susan 
 McGOWAN--Vivian P. of Riverdale, NY, on March 17th. Wife of the late William J. McGowan, devoted mother of Marianne, Elizabeth, and William J. Loving grandmother of Emily, Nicholas, Peter and Timothy Prokesch and Andrew, Kara and Paulina McGowan. Daughter of the late Julius F. and Julia F. 
 MILNE--Bessie Rilla Bacon, 84, of Darien, CT, passed away March 17, 2007. Daughter of Frederick S. and Lenice I. Bacon of Newton, MA. She attended House in the Pines and Vassar College, Class of 1944. She married the late Douglas D. Milne, Jr. in 1949. She is survived by sons, Douglas D. II
 RADDOCK--Deborah Susan, age 64, died peacefully in her home on March 19, 2007. The cause of death was melanoma. Deborah's memory is cherished by her husband, Richard D. Raddock; her mother, Grace Charleston; her sons Daniel, Michael, and Robert; her five grandchildren; and by her many lovin
 SCHUCHALTER--Rabbi Paul. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of Gilda Angel's father and extends sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 FERGUSON--Katharine, (nee Crowninshield), 72, died of cancer on March 18, 2007 in Gulf Stream, FL. She is survived by her husband, David L. Ferguson, her sister Louise C. Riemer, two nieces, two nephews, a great-niece and a great-nephew. A service will be held on March 29, 2007 at Trinity C
 BROWN--Janet, (born in Philadelphia, PA, May 23, 1947), died suddenly in a car accident on Friday, March 16th as she drove to work. Janet enjoyed an iconic career as founder of Janet Brown Ltd., the chic Long Island boutique. She was loved by her friends, respected by her colleagues; her qu
 COHEN--Selma. After a long illness and just prior to her 94th birthday, Selma passed away on the morning of March 21, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Harris (Harold), devoted mother of Richard and Paula, loving grandmother of Jonathan, Lisa and the late Harris and adored greatgrandmother of 
 DUBIN--Eleanor. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Senior Rabbi Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President $(6$)DUBIN--Eleanor. The Officers, Directors and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatr
 JACKSON--Rachel G.S. (Former President of the Women's Division of the Toronto Real Estate Board, Retired Journalist Hamilton Herald Tribune and member of Grace Church on-the-Hill, Toronto), Peacefully at Kensington Gardens, Toronto, on Wednesday, March 21, 2007, in her 101st year. Elder dau
 McGOWAN--Vivian P. of Riverdale, NY, on March 17th. Wife of the late William J. McGowan, devoted mother of Marianne, Elizabeth, and William J. Loving grandmother of Emily, Nicholas, Peter and Timothy Prokesch and Andrew, Kara and Paulina McGowan. Daughter of the late Julius F. and Julia F. 
 LITTLEJOHN--Barbara, age 89, of New York, NY on Monday, November 19th. Founder of Barbara Littlejohn Inc., an executive search firm for the retail industry. She conducted her personal life and business affairs with great integrity and generosity and is survived by many loving friends. There
 Tanya Reinhart, an Israeli linguist best known to the public as an ardent critic of her country's policies toward the Palestinians, died on Saturday while vacationing in Montauk, N.Y. She was 63. Her death was confirmed by colleagues at New York University, where Professor Reinhart 
 CALAGNA--Caterina ''Aunt Tina'', died Wednesday March 21, 2007 at her home in NYC. She was born in Corleone, Sicily on February 16, 1909. She is survived by her nephew Tom, his wife Judith and their children Vanessa and Jesse. She was ''Aunt Tina'' to countless others whom she loved and lov
 PICKETT--Sybil A. (nee Alger), of Delray Beach, FL and Lake Placid, NY, born July 4, 1917, beloved daughter of the late Martin J. Alger and Muriel S. Alger of Bronxville, NY, and Tuscon, AZ, devoted wife of the late Winston H. Pickett, Jr., passed away peacefully on March 19 following a str
 RODMAN--Marilyn, of Rye Brook, NY, wife of the late Harold, mother of Jesse, Daniel and Ellen Farina, nana of eight, grandnana of four, sister of Joan Serling. Marilyn's life was devoted to her family and her lifetime love of women's fashion, which included her stores in Mamaroneck and Rye 
 BARZIN--Eleanor Close, died at her home in Paris, France, on November 27, 2006. She also resided in Fribourg, Switzerland. She was born Eleanor Post Close on December 3, 1909, in Greenwich, CT, to Edward Bennett Close and Marjorie Merriweather Post. She was preceded in death by her husband 
 CAPUTO--Emily Stull, of Riverdale, NYC, and formerly of Bridgehampton, NY, died on March 22, 2007, at age 89. Devoted and loving wife of Dante S. Caputo, and mother of Patricia P. Anderson of Mystic, CT, Pengwynne P. Blevins, M.D. of Arlington, MA, Priscilla Potter (deceased 1957), Peter Po
 CHESS--Stella, M.D. The Bellevue family mourns the loss of Dr. Stella Chess, an eminent clinician, researcher and educator. She loved Bellevue and the mission to care for the undeserved. Countless trainees and colleagues were privileged to have been taught by this pioneer in Child and Adols
 DANE--Goody. We are deeply saddened at the passing of the loving, darling mother of our sister-in-law Gail Propp. Mort and Enia Propp and family $(6$)DANE--Goody. We mourn the loss of an elegant and regal Eishet Chayil. A Silver Founder together with her late husband Oscar, Goody wa
 DUBIN--Ellie. A bright light has gone out of our lives. We will miss you. Ardith and David $(6$)DUBIN--Eleanor. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Eleanor Dubin, a major supporter and founder of the Long Island Women's Camp
 DuBOIS--Barbara C., 102, in Farmington, CT. She is survived by two daughters and four grandchildren.       
 FINKELSTEIN--Mary (Boesman) 65, passed away in her Columbia, Missouri home on March 16. Funeral Services were at Columbia Cemetery on March 19. Beloved by all who knew her, Mary, the daughter of Frank and Ruth (Pounds) Boesman, was born May 14, 1941, in Pittsburgh, PA. She graduated from Ju
 GREENBERG--Evelyn, on March 9, 2007, in Las Vegas, Nevada. Beloved wife of the late Leo Greenberg, mother of Charles, Marlene and husband, Ralph, aunt to Rhoda, Eugene, and Yola. She will be dearly missed by all who knew her.       
 HAHN--Elizabeth Harris. October 13, 1916 to March 13, 2007. Elizabeth ''Betty'' Hahn, passed away of natural causes. Born in Bronxville, NY to Isaac F. and Elizabeth H Harris. Growing up in Tuckhoe and Rye. She married and moved to Kansas City Idaho Falls, Berkley, then Sacramento. She spen
 HERMAN--Marilyn MacHardy, 81, died peacefully March 17, 2007 in Devon, PA. Marilyn lived a full and vibrant personal and professional life. Born in New York, raised in Rye, she was happily married for 35 years to Dr. Myron Herman. They raised their four children in Yonkers and Lake Placid, 
 JENKINS--Marion Gun, 85, died January 13, in Baltimore. A magna cum laude Radcliffe graduate, she was a wartime consular charge d'affaires in China. A teacher in Thailand and Cape Cod, she received her master's degree from St. John's College. Her husband, Felix Jenkins, died in 1975. Surviv
 LANDAU--Mabel R. Two weeks prior to her 100th birthday, Mabel passed away on March 23, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Harold, devoted mother of Lawrence and Sandra, loving grandmother of Scott, Brian, Todd, Emily, Caroline and Katherine and adoring great-grandmother of Isabel, Zachery, Ryle
 RODMAN--Marilyn, of Rye Brook, NY, wife of the late Harold, mother of Jesse, Daniel and Ellen Farina, nana of eight, grandnana of four, sister of Joan Serling. Marilyn's life was devoted to her family and her lifetime love of women's fashion, which included her stores in Mamaroneck and Rye 
 TRUEN--Arlene D. A best friend to us and all that knew her. We will miss her greatly. Rest in peace. Connie and Eddie Katz $(6$)TRUEN--Arlene. Our beloved Arlene. Our life long sister who decorated our hearts and our homes with so much love. We will forever treasure our lives togeth
 FERGUSON--Katharine Crowninshield. The Officers and Directors of The Garden Club of America express deep sorrow on the death of their former President, Katharine (Kitty) Crowninshield Ferguson, and extend deepest sympathy to her husband, David L., and her family and friends. She served the 
 FOLEY--Mary E. (nee Hughes) In loving memory, of Watertown and Wayland, MA. September 11, 1922March 21, 2006. ''All of her daughters were virtuous and all of her sons were brave.''       
 Cathy Seipp, a columnist and blogger who became widely known for poking fun at the liberal leanings popularly associated with her hometown, Los Angeles, died there on Wednesday. She was 49 and lived in the Silver Lake area of Los Angeles. The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter
 CAPUTO--Emily. The Officers, Members and Staff of The Riverdale Yacht Club mourn the passing of Emmy Caputo, beloved wife of Bick Caputo, the backbone of our club. We extend our condolences and deepest sympathy to her entire family. Jennifer Klein, Commodore       
 LANDAU--Mabel R. Two weeks prior to her 100th birthday, Mabel passed away on March 23, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Harold, devoted mother of Lawrence and Sandra, loving grandmother of Scott, Brian, Todd, Emily, Caroline and Katherine and adoring great-grandmother of Isabel, Zachery, Ryle
 BIENSTOCK--Sara. (February 14, 1910 -March 25, 2007). Daughter of Mayer and Rose Roth; sister of the late Charles; beloved wife of the late William; loving mother of Errol and Paula, David and Carol, and Michael and Sophie; proud grandmother of the late Bradley, Lori and Gregg, Michelle and
 CAMPS--Helen Place of Rye, New York, passed away peacefully on March 25, 2007. Beloved wife and partner for 58 years of Lowell Crocker Camps. Her memory will be held forever in the hearts of daughter Linda Louise Camps of Greenwich, CT, son Jeffery Lowell Camps, his wife Judi of Larchmont, 
 EDELSTEIN--Edith, died peacefully surrounded by her family after a long illness. Loved and loving wife of the late Leo, adored and adoring mother of Rhonda Harrison (Dr. Aaron) and Dr. Barbara Edelstein (Dr. Kenneth Goldman), and amazing grandmother of Jonathan and Alison Goldman and David 
 GELB--Mae. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc., expresses its deepest sorrow at the passing of Mae Gelb, cherished mother of Bev Klein and Sondra Myers. Mae was the treasured grandmother of five, great-grandmother of nine, and great-great-grandmother of one. As a Gua
 HESCHEL--Sylvia. The Abraham Joshua Heschel School community mourns the passing of our esteemed Honorary President, Sylvia Heschel. Mrs. Heschel was deeply connected to and involved with us from our inception beginning with giving us permission to use her beloved husband's name for the scho
 NEFF--Elizabeth (nee Gould) age 101. Widow of Melvin A. Neff, died March 26, 2007. Survived by her son James Lawrence Neff and grandchildren Christopher Woodhouse Neff and Hilary Neff Crevier. Interment private.       
 SMITH--Janet D., attorney, on March 25, 2007, after a courageous battle with cancer. Survived by her loving husband, Scott J. Zevon, M.D., her beloved parents, Saul and Lillian Smith, her sisters Judy Green and Karen Smith, her brother Alan Smith, and extended family. Beautiful, strong, vib
 STEINMAN--Joan. Rudin Management mourns the passing of Joan Steinman. Our thoughts and prayers are with her family during this difficult time. Jack Rudin, Chairman       
 SLEPPIN-ITZKOWITZ-Estelle. 1 year ago today a very special person passed away. Estelle's exhuberance, smile and positive outlook was her trademark. A Woman whose strength & determination was infinite. Small in stature, yet larger than life. A lover of friends, family & life. Estelle touched
 CAMPS--Helen, died after a valiant battle. She will always be remembered for her spirit and devotion to family. Daniel and Eleanor, Robert and Anita Nelson       
 GELLER--Ruth. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board of Governors, members and staff of Fresh Meadow Country Club record the passing of our long time member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her daughters, Karen Kneller and Jill Lenchner, her four grandchildren, and her brot
 MARRON--Dorothy (nee Jamin), 92, of Ho-Ho-Kus, NJ, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, passed away on March 26, 2007. Born in Weehawken on August 1, 1914, she attended the Dwight (Englewood) School and graduated from Georgian Court University in 1936. She married Lawrence Peter Marron in 1943, who p
 NADELSON--Sally, passed away on March 20th, 2007, at the age of 92 after a brief illness. She was the quintessential Jewish mother, devoting her life to the health and wellbeing of her family. She is survived by two sons, Gerald Nadelson of Long Island and Kenneth Nadelson of Manhattan, and
 SMITH--Janet D., attorney, on March 25, 2007, after a courageous battle with cancer. Survived by her loving husband, Scott J. Zevon, M.D., her beloved parents, Saul and Lillian Smith, her sisters Judy Green and Karen Smith, her brother Alan Smith, and extended family. Beautiful, strong, vib
 STONE--Virginia. Formerly of 25 Central Park West, NY. Entered peacefully into rest at the age of 88 on March 27, 2007. Loving wife of the late Jerry Stone. Beautiful mother of Leslie and Marlene Stone. Very proud grandmother of Adam Osterweil and John Roesch. Grandmother-in-law of Mindy Ro
 WHITE--Gertrude S. The ORT America family (formerly American ORT and Women's American ORT) deeply mourn the passing of Gertrude S. White, Honorary National President of Women's American ORT and past President (1983-1987). An active member since 1952, she witnessed the growth and was involve
 Amelia S. Haygood, a former clinical psychologist who more than three decades ago parlayed her love of classical music into the independent record label Delos, died on March 19 at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 87. The cause was cancer, said Carol Rosenberger, the company'
 BASILE--Mavis Rebecca, of Mt. Vernon, NY, age 87, on March 26th, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Naef Khoury Basile, pioneering physician and surgeon, Lebanese-American newspaper publisher, national and international organizer and leader. Successful fashion designer, NYC, 1940s-1950s. Af
 BUNIM--Gladys, 97 of Aventura, passed away Tuesday, March 27, 2007. She is the beloved wife of the late Dr. Louis Bunim, loving mother of Mark (Linda) Bunim, cherished grandmother of Ari (Josefa) Bunim and Douglas Bunim, adored great-grandmother of Eliana Bunim, dear sister of Burton (Alice
 HECHT--Mildred. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed Member, Mrs. Mildred Hecht, and extends sincere sympathy to the members of her family. Ira Eichner, President Arthur Loring, Secretary       
 KNOPPERS--Maria J., on March 27, 2007, in her home in New York City. Born February 22, 1913, in Lunteren, the Netherlands, and formerly of Summit, NJ. Widow of Antonie T. Knoppers, mother of Bastiaan A. Knoppers of Amsterdam, the Netherlands, Mieke Knoppers Cole of New York City, Anneke Kno
 LYNCH--Eileen E. (nee Garry) 65, of Franklin Lakes, on March 26, 2007. Beloved wife of Michael C. Lynch Sr. Devoted mother of Mary Ann Belliveau and her husband Brian of New York City, Michael C. Lynch, Jr., and his wife Danielle of Montclair, and Francis G. Lynch of New York City. Loving g
 MacKENZIE--Frances Yvonne, of Brooklyn died March 24, 2007. Wife of the late Douglas C. MacKenzie and mother of Maureen and Deirdre. She will be deeply missed by her many friends and family. Services Friday 10am at First Presbyterian Church, 124 Henry Street, Brooklyn, NY.       
 MORGANTE--Linda, RN, MSN, MSCN. Linda Morgante passed away yesterday after a courageous struggle with cancer. The nursing and MS world is stunned at her loss. Linda entered the world of MS nursing as the coordinator of nursing services at Maimonides Hospital MS Care Center in 1986, and over
 PHREANER--Hester Gray, 92, of Naples, FL, died Tuesday, March 27, 2007. Survived by sons, David G. Phreaner and Andrew W. Phreaner and sister, Shirley G. Stevenson. Hester is survived by her husband C. Edgar Phreaner, Jr., to whom she was married for 67 years.       
 STEINBERG--Jean, 88, March 23, after a long illness, predeceased by her husband Abraham. Schlaf Woho. Gertrude, Jayne and Bob       
 RUBENSTEIN--Estelle, nee Bauman, born March 4, 1912, died peacefully in her home, March 27, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Murray Rubenstein. She was a brilliant financial advisor, and loyal colleague and friend to many. She is survived by her daughters, Judith Schaffer and Alice Brent, gra
 WANDERMAN--Rosalie, of Hollywood, FL, on March 27, 2007; age 100. A resident of NYC until her retirement, she was employed as office manager at Webster Hall in Manhattan for her entire career. Survived by her loving brother Dr. Sidney E. Wanderman, and nieces Lisa Wanderman Gottlieb and Mar
 Charlotte Winters, the last surviving woman to have served in the American armed forces in World War I and one of the first to enlist in the Navy, died Tuesday at her home in Boonsboro, Md. She was 109. The death was confirmed by Philip Molter, a spokesman for the Naval District Was
 BEHAR--Amy, (nee Feiman), born August 3, 1957. Amy was surrounded by her family and friends when she died on March 29, 2007, following a long and courageous battle with breast cancer. She was a Brown University graduate, and maintained dual American and Israeli citizenship. Amy excelled as 
 KNOPPERS--Maria J., on March 27, 2007, in her home in New York City. Born February 22, 1913, in Lunteren, the Netherlands, and formerly of Summit, NJ. Widow of Antonie T. Knoppers, mother of Bastiaan A. Knoppers of Amsterdam, the Netherlands, Mieke Knoppers Cole of New York City, Anneke Kno
 MORGANTE--Linda. You were a true sister to me. The loss we feel with you gone is profound, you were my mentor, my colleague, my friend. You were always there for us, and we will always love and miss you. T.T. and Lillo $(6$)MORGANTE--Linda, 55, of Brooklyn. Loving wife to Joe Porcel
 STEINBERG--Jean, 88, March 23, after a long illness, predeceased by her husband Abraham. Schlaf Wohl. Gertrude, Jayne and Bob       
 BENJOYA--Rachel. January 27, 1922 to March 25, 2007. A force in the world. She will be missed by many. With love. Skotheims & Silvermans       
 KLESTADT--Berta Merker, of Jackson Heights, NY on March 30th. Berta leaves her sons Gary, Alan and Peter, her daughters-in-law Yvette Caro, Barbara Klestadt and Trish Mairs, and her grandchildren Alexandra, Erica, Andrea, Lauren, Adam, David and Andrew. Services will be held Sunday, April 1
 REILLEY--Elizabeth Kals, of Muttontown, LI on March 29th, 2007 in her 100th year. Beloved wife of the late Ewing. Aunt of Maria Kals Opie and Karen Kals Ezekiel. Great-aunt of Jane Opie Maltan and Andreas Maltan. Also survived by special caregivers Jesus and Amparo Martinez. Friends may vis
