 Karol Kennedy Kucher, who teamed up with her brother, Peter Kennedy, to win the gold medal in pairs at the 1950 world figure-skating championships and a silver medal at the 1952 Winter Olympics, died on Friday at a hospital in Seattle. She was 72. The cause was pneumonia, her brothe
 STEIN--Marion, of Scarsdale, NY, age 83, died peacefully on June 30, 2004, after a long and courageous struggle with emphysema. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Stein; loving mother of Robert Stein (Mara Greenberg) and Ellen Lazarus (Howard Lazarus); adored grandmother of Andrew (Stephanie)
 WILSON--Mary Fowler. 87, Dame of Malta, of Wynnewood, PA and Glen Cove, NY died peacefully at home on June 29, 2004 in Wynnewood. Beloved wife of Dr. William W. Wilson and previously of Francis S. Kinney, who predeceased her. Born Mary Dalton Fowler in Broadmoor, CO on July 27, 1916, she wa
 BLOCH--Joyce K. Beloved woman of eloquence, empathy, dignity, wisdom, humor, and integrity, with a great love for the arts, died June 27, 2004. With an MA from Teachers College Columbia University, Joyce was a gifted and passionate lifelong educator. As a speech therapist, she was a pioneer
 JACOBSON--Sylvia, 83, formerly of Floral Park & Rockville Centre, NY, & Lake Worth, FL. Adored wife of 63 years of Jerry. Most beloved mother of Laura Wagner, Ellie Feldman, Carole (Doug) Rawson. Cherished Nana of eight grandchildren, proud great-grandmother & devoted sister. Her wit & wisd
 KURTZ--Marlene. Beloved daughter of Herman Ratner and stepdaughter of Julie Ratner, dear mother of Jeffrey, sister of Neil and sisterin-law of Doris, died on Wednesday, July 30, 2004, after a long and heroic struggle with cancer. She was 59. A teacher of Spanish at the Princeton Day School,
 SONKIN - WEIL -- Doris, of Royal Palm Beach, FL. Predeceased by her beloved husbands, Jack Sonkin and Morris Weil. Survived by her children, Bruce and Ellen Sonkin, and Ann Sonkin-Dawson, granddaughter, Jessica Sonkin. Services Sunday, 12:30 PM, at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt. 
 STEIN--Marion, of Scarsdale, NY, age 83, died peacefully on June 30, 2004, after a long and courageous struggle with emphysema. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Stein; loving mother of Robert Stein (Mara Greenberg) and Ellen Lazarus (Howard Lazarus); adored grandmother of Andrew (Stephanie)
 YADGAROFF--Musia Wick. Of Palm Beach, Florida, peacefully on June 28, 2004. Predeceased by husbands Jack Yadgaroff and Samuel Wick. Cherished mother of Loretta (Arthur) Holland. Adored grandmother of Seth, Sandford and Nicole. Musia's strength, compassion and humor will be sorely missed. Al
 BERGER--Elaine G. On July 2, 2004. Predeceased by her beloved husband Sidney Berger. Loving mother of David, Susan, Bill and Fran. Adoring grandmother of Samantha, Sydney & Harrison. Services will be held at Gutterman's Woodbury at 12:00 noon on July 4, 2004.       
 BROWN--Cynthia (Barnett). Of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Manhasset, NY on July 1, 2004 at the age of 79, following a brief illness. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Frederick Brown, her daughters Pamela Brown-Inz, Alice Brown and Melissa Brown, sister and brother-in-law Elise and Le
 KERRIGAN--Louise Edie, 84, of Palmyra, PA, and formerly of Washington, DC, died Tuesday, June 29, 2004. She was a journalist; graduate of Scarsdale High School, Vassar College and Columbia School of Journalism.       
 ORFUSS--Muriel. We express our profound sorrow at the passing of our dearest ''Moo''. She was a woman of grace and dignity, humor and love, who was always there for our family. We extend our deepest condolences to her children and their families. She made a difference in our lives and will 
 BERGER--Elaine G. On July 2, 2004. Predeceased by her beloved husband Sidney Berger. Loving mother of David, Susan, Bill and Fran. Adoring grandmother of Samantha, Sydney & Harrison. Services will be held at Gutterman's Woodbury at 12:00 noon on July 4, 2004.       
 BROWN--Cynthia (Barnett). Of West Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Manhasset, NY on July 1, 2004 at the age of 79, following a brief illness. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Frederick Brown, her daughters Pamela Brown-Inz, Alice Brown and Melissa Brown, sister and brother-in-law Elise and Le
 CRANDELL -- Mary Eli zabeth. Beloved wife of the late John Underhill Crandell. Betty was born on July 22, 1915, in Newark, NJ. She died at Vicars Landing in Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, on June 8, 2004. Betty is survived by her three children John Crandell, Jr., Cathy Long and Jeffrey Crandell. A
 GIDDING--Diane Austin. 54, died of breast cancer on June 8 at her home in Huntington, NY. Her work over 17 years as a mental health counselor and educator in California and Massachusetts, and on Long Island, made a difference to the people she helped and loved. We will never forget her. She
 GOLDBERG -- Patricia Ann (nee Cundall). Advisor to IBM's Director of Research and Chief Scientist during a career spanning over 35 years. She was also a specialist in computer languages & compilers. Died Wednesday, June 30, 2004 of complications from treatment of Hodgkins Disease. Born in 1
 JACOBSON--Sylvia, 83, formerly of Floral Park & Rockville Centre, NY, & Lake Worth, FL. Adored wife of 63 years of Jerry. Most beloved mother of Laura Wagner, Ellie Feldman, Carole (Doug) Rawson. Cherished Nana of eight grandchildren, proud great-grandmother & devoted sister. Her wit & wisd
 ORFUSS--Muriel Betty. Age 81, on July 1. Beloved wife of the late Irving for 50 years. Cherished mother of Mitchell, Robert, and Leslie. Adoring grandmother of Kathryn and Stuart. Loving mother-in-law of Kate and Lionel. Devoted sister of Kenneth Levine. ORFUSS--Muriel. We express o
 PARKER--Dr. Wendy Lee. On July 3, 2004. Beloved daughter of George & Phyllis; sister of Bill and Perry. Services today, 2:30 pm, at Weinstein, Garlick, Kirschenbaum in Brooklyn. Contributions can be made in Wendy's memory to the Coma Recovery Assoc., 807 Carman Ave, Westbury, NY 11590. Wend
 JOSEPH--Fannie (Feld), 91, died in Staten Island on July 3rd, surrounded by her loving family. She was the daughter of Morris and Golda Feld (London) and is survived by her son, Samuel Kaval (Jan) of Coram, NY, daughter, Ellen Horowitz of Staten Island, sisters, Sarah Boxer of Staten Island
 LANE--Aline (Lilette). Peacefully, on July 5, at the age of 81 in New York. Survived by her daughter Patricia of Paris, France. Donations in her memory may be made to Enhanced Classroom Resources at www.ecrus.org or to ARPA at www.refuge-arpa. com       
 McGROARTY--Dr. Rosemary Gilgan. On July 3, age 88, educator, after a courageous battle with cancer. Rosemary commuted four hours daily to attend the College of Mt. St. Vincent on scholarship, graduating with honors. After a short but valued experience with the Social Service Department of S
 STROH--Frieda Ann. On Saturday, July 3. Daughter of the late William Glazer and Ida Gordon Stroh. Beloved sister of the late Morris Clifford Stroh and Stella Stroh Menke. Loving aunt of Melinda Menke Burns and Elizabeth Jane LaLouis. She was known for her originality, creativity, wit, beaut
 EISENBERG--Leni. On July 5th, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Sigg Eisenberg; loving mother of Fred (Tamara) and Peter (Gail); adoring grandmother of Michele (Buddy), Jason, Karen and Jascha and great-grandmother of Zachary; loving sister of Regina Silbiger who was her best friend. Leni live
 FUHRER--Gertrude, passed away on July 3, 2004, two weeks short of her 93rd birthday. She was a lifetime member of the Mizrachi Women's Organization (Amit Women) and prided herself on her dedication to that organization. She was predeceased by her husband of 56 years, Irving, who died in 199
 KATZENBERG -- Patricia Aloe, 82, died July 4, 2004 in Berlin, VT. Born May 25, 1922 in Philadelphia, PA., she was the daughter of Rose and Arthur K. Aloe. She graduated from Pennsylvania State University in 1944. On June 4, 1945 she married William Robert Katzenberg. Survivors are son Micha
 KAUFMAN--Ruth Bunny. We mourn the passing of Ruth Bunny Kaufman of Delray and Boynton Beach, Florida, formerly of Great Neck, NY, beloved wife of the late Dr. Matthew Kaufman, loving mother of Kenneth, David and Daniel, adored grandmother of Brian, Jennifer, Jacob, Adam, and Anastasia, grea
 McDONNELL -- Katherine, RSCJ. Age 89, died peacefully on June 29, 2004 at the Kenwood Convent of the Sacred Heart, Albany, NY. Daughter of the late Katherine McKenna and Alexander Joseph McDonnell and sister of the late Anne Hassinger, Margaret Shanley and Joseph McDonnell. Survived by a si
 WINAGLE--Hope Estin, on July 4th at age 78. Mrs. Winagle died in Vero Beach, FL after a short illness. She leaves her devoted husband of 22 years, Gordon T. Winagle, of Vero Beach, four children by her first husband, Peter G. Estin, who predeceased her: Lee Estin Cauro of Barcelona, Spain, 
 ZAP--Carolla. August 12th, 1973-July 2nd, 2004. She died as she lived: heroically, bravely, beautifully       
 BENNETT -- M. Eleanore Newbold. Age 92, formerly of Manhasset, NY and Millbrook, NY, wife of the late Thomas Baron Bennett, died in Salisbury, CT on July 6, 2004. She was born in Whitestone, NY, and, for many years, she and her late brother, William Newbold, owned and operated the Continent
 FELT -- Marguerite Clarke, age 91, of Delray Beach, FL, died Sunday evening, July 4, 2004. She had lived in Delray Beach for 28 years, moving from Darien, Connecticut where she had been a resident for over 30 years. Mrs. Felt was born in Cleveland, OH, daughter of Norris Jay and Kathryn Pea
 NEWMAN--Roslyn. Age 82, of Bedford, NY. Died on July 6, 2004. She leaves her devoted husband of 60 years, Leonard; beloved children, Wendy, Scott and Peter, and adored grandchildren, Griffin, James and Romilly, as well as her daughter - in - law, Antonia Newman, and dear friend, Gregory Lon
 WEINSTEIN - BERLLY -- Edna (nee Gralla), 89 years, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of East Rockaway, on July 6, 2004. Beloved wife of Paul Berlly and the late Jules Weinstein. Loving mother of Robert Weinstein, Barry and Ronni Janoff Weinstein, Ellen and Chris Kauffmann. Adoring grandmother of 
 WESTRICH--Lucille. Of Old Brookville, NY on July 6, 2004. Daughter of Moe and Lena Cohen, widow of Melvin Westrich. Her warmth, intelligence and passion for learning and arts lit our lives. Survived by her daughter Barbara, son Don, daughter-in-law Mary and grandchildren Sarah and Will. Ser
 ZAP--Carolla, August 12, 1973July 3, 2004. Cutting-edge painter and graphic designer, adventuresome motorcyclist, accomplished violinist, voracious reader, animal lover, who for two years valiantly fought a rare stomach cancer, succumbed to its ravages peacefully at home surrounded by her b
 BENNETT -- M. Eleanore Newbold. Age 92, formerly of Manhasset, NY and Millbrook, NY, wife of the late Thomas Baron Bennett, died in Salisbury, CT on July 6, 2004. She was born in Whitestone, NY, and, for many years, she and her late brother, William Newbold, owned and operated the Continent
 KANE--Fay, June 23, 2004. Beloved sister of Evelyn Moss and deeply loved by her nieces and nephews. Memorial service Friday July 9, 11AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., at 81st St.       
 LIEDER--Lucy, 68, died Saturday, July 3, 2004, at home in her beloved Sun Valley, surrounded by her family, after a six-and-a-half year battle with cancer. Lucille Ann Buck was born on December 12, 1935 in Chatham Village, a neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The oldest of Leo and Ma
 LUNT--Lida Bell, of Rochester, died on July 4, 2004. Born in Cincinnati, Ohio on May 20, 1908, she is survived by four daughters: Edith (Gordon) L. Small, Pittsford: Ruth (David) L. Watson, Cincinnati, OH; Rev. Lidabell (Charles) L. Pollard, Chatham, MA. and Vero Beach, FL; and Cynthia (Joh
 RAFKIND--Toni. On July 8, 2004. Beloved wife of Arthur. Devoted mother of David, Nicholas and Buddy. Dear sister of Sheldon Kronen and sisterin-law of Arlene Kronen, Sheila Rafkind and Murray Dorfman. Loving aunt of Stephanie and Gary Kronen, Steven Rafkind, Randy Dorfman, Gary Dorfman and 
 REITMAN -- Ruth Groden. Died July 7. Beloved mother of Judy and Dan, loving grandmother of Elizabeth and Eric. Proud great-grandmother of Samuel. She derived great pleasure in gathering the family together and is remembered lovingly by her daughter-in-law Diane, brothers, sisters - in - law
 SHER--Joan Lear. Of Larchmont, NY on July 7, 2004. Mother of Jonathan, Elisabeth and Abigail Sher. Grandmother of Katie and Alex Sher. Widow of Roger Sher and David Hurwitz. Services 11:00 AM Friday, July 9 at Larchmont Temple. SHER--Joan. Our heartfelt sympathy and vast sorrow are 
 FRENCH--Isabel K. Died on July 9, 2004 at the age of 91. Prominent Real Estate Broker of Chatham, NY. She is survived by her husband Jerome A. French, and a son Dr. John R. French. Funeral services at St. Peters Church, Spencertown, NY on July 12th, 2004 at 2PM. Interment St. James Cemetery
 RAFKIND--Toni. The entire Shopkorn family mourns the loss of our Aunt Toni. Her friendship, understanding, warmth, outlook, grace and charm will be sorely missed and cannot be replaced. We feel so lucky that she was a part of our lives. We are all better off for it. Her memory is deeply bur
 ZWANG--Shirley Shapiro. Artist dies at 80. She was born April 28, 1924 in NYC, the youngest of three daughters to the late Benjamin and Lana Shapiro. She was married to the late Murray Zwang. She lived in the Bronx, Yonkers, NY, finally settling in Danbury, CT. on his passing. She is surviv
 Paula Danziger, who established herself as a writer of popular fiction for young readers with her first book, ''The Cat Ate My Gymsuit,'' died on Thursday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 59. The cause was complications of a heart attack she suffered on June 9, said Doug
 Corrine Grad Coleman, a founding member of the Redstockings, a women's liberation group in New York, died on July 4 at her home in Manhattan. She was 77. The cause was heart disease, said her daughter, Patricia Coleman. Redstockings, a play on bluestockings but with the colo
 BUXTON--Anne Taylor. 87, passed away peacefully at her home Friday, July 2, 2004. Born in Rochester, New York, she was the eldest of Earl Burt Taylor's and Judith Ogden Taylor's four daughters. Mrs. Buxton received her early education in Le Roy, New York, where her father was the Superinten
 DANZIGER -- Paula. Paula Danziger, beloved children's book writer, would like to inform you that she isn't avoiding your calls, she passed away on July 8, 2004. Friends and family will celebrate her life at 3 PM, Wednesday, at the Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76th Street. Donations can be mad
 FIELDS - ARNOLD -- Carole. On June 11, 2004. Co-founder MAP, Musicians Assistance Program, with late husband Buddy Arnold. Loving mother of Chris and Rachael, survived by her mother Ruth Ragusa Albert, and many loving friends. Donations in her memory may be made at www.friendlyhouse.net    
 GOODMAN--Marcia, 64, of cancer, July 3. Born and raised in NYC and longtime resident of Manhattan and Amagansett, NY, she relocated to San Diego, CA in 1993. Trained as a classical pianist, her many interests afforded her a multitude of careers, from working with Murray the K at WINS radio 
 RAFKIND--Toni. On July 8, 2004. Beloved wife of Arthur. Devoted mother of David, Nicholas and Buddy. Dear sister of Sheldon Kronen and sisterin-law of Arlene Kronen, Sheila Rafkind and Murray Dorfman. Loving aunt of Stephanie and Gary Kronen, Steven Rafkind, Randy Dorfman, Gary Dorfman and 
 RUTHERFURD -- Jacqueline Orr. 80 years, of Greenwich, CT, died July 2, 2004 of heart failure. She was the daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Emmett Orr of Ashland, KY. She was predeceased by her husband, John P. Rutherfurd, and raised three sets of children. Her presence was electric, her en
 ZAP--Carolla. August 12th, 1973-July 2nd, 2004. She died as she lived: heroically, bravely, beautifully.       
 DANZIGER -- Paula. Paula Danziger, beloved children's book writer, would like to inform you that she isn't avoiding your calls, she passed away on July 8, 2004. Friends and family will celebrate her life at 3 PM, Wednesday, at the Riverside Chapel, 180 West 76th Street. Donations can be mad
 FIELDS - ARNOLD -- Carole. On June 11, 2004. Co-founder MAP, Musicians Assistance Program, with late husband Buddy Arnold. Loving mother of Chris and Rachael, survived by her mother Ruth Ragusa Albert, and many loving friends. Donations in her memory may be made at www.friendlyhouse.net    
 HAMMER--Dorothy. On July 10, 2004. Beloved wife of Muni. Devoted mother of David and Barri, Claudette and Steven Kunkes. Adored grandmother of Lauren and Noah, Ross, Adam, Matthew and Jordan. Service Monday, 1 pm, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th and Amsterdam Ave, NYC. Donations in her memory ma
 MONTAGNINO--Ruth Freedgood. July 10, 2004. Beloved mother of Alan and Edward. Loving grandmother of Tammy, Mindy, Eric, Adam and Andrew. Proud great-grandmother of Joshua and Rachel. She is survived by her sisters Jeanette and Shirley. Deeply loved by her niece Marilyn. Lovingly remembered 
 ZIPKIN -- Beulah Pearlstein. March 25, 1908-July 10, 2004. A warm and generous woman has passed away. The eldest daughter of Israel and Sarah (Reibstein) Pearlstein, she and her five sisters were the Belles of Bensonhurst. She was a music teacher, an insurance broker, a volunteer at the Wil
 Phoebe Brand Carnovsky, an actress and distinguished acting teacher who was a founding member of the influential Group Theater, died on July 3 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, her son, Stephen Carnovsky, said. She was 96. Phoebe Brand, as she was known professio
 Isabel Sanford, the Emmy Award-winning actress who portrayed Louise Jefferson, the stoically beleaguered better half to Sherman Hemsley's reactionary in ''All in the Family'' and ''The Jeffersons,'' died on Friday at a Los Angeles hospital. She was 86 and lived in Los Angeles. Ms. S
 BERMAN -- Alvera -''Chickie'', on July 11, 2004. Died peacefully at her home in Sarasota, Fl. Loving wife of the late Edward M. Berman. Devoted mother of Judy (Earle) Kazis, Rick (Elizabeth) Berman and the late Tom Berman. Loving grandmother of Deborah Kazis (Gideon Taylor), Kerry (Brad) Ph
 CHRISTIAN--Linda M. Died early Saturday morning at her childhood home in West Springfield, MA surrounded by her loving family. She was a longtime resident of New York City. She leaves her mother Vera Christian, husband Gregory, of London, England, son Christopher of St. Petersburg, FL and d
 ETKIND--Anna B. Park East Synagogue Sisterhood sorrowfully mourns the passing of Anna B. Etkind, beloved mother of Polly Etkind Hochberg, our dedicated Past President. She will missed by us all. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Lois Kirsh, Co-President N
 GAL -- Susanne. American Committee for Shenkar College in Israel mourns the passing of Susanne Gal, our valued and dedicated Board Member. A creative, talented, accomplished designer, she received an honorary fellowship from the College. Our deepest condolences to Andreas, Julie and Henry. 
 GOLDSMITH--Doris Zagor. Widow of Michael Goldsmith, passed away July 10, 2004, in New York, the city she loved. She is survived by three sons, John (and Susie) of Pound Ridge, NY, Tom (and Marc) of Bozeman, MT and Lee of Caledonia, MI; her grandchildren, Jill, David and Joshua, and Matt and
 HARPER--Lynn. On July 11, 2004. She is survived by husband Bruce, parents Rose and Charles Vialotti, and brother Charles Vialotti. She graduated from Marymont School, Smith College (summa cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa). She studied drama with Lee Strassberg, Harold Clurman and Stella Adler, amo
 HIRSCHBERG--Ruth Burchard: We are deeply grieved to record the passing of our beloved Ruth Hirschberg, daughter of the late Otto and Hedda Burchard, wife of our dear Senior Rabbi of blessed memory, Gunter Hirschberg. Born and educated in Germany, Ruth immigrated to Australia via England in 
 KOBE--Shirley, passed away on July 9, 2004, at the age of 99. She is survived by her son David, daughter Patricia and granddaughter Alana.       
 PAGE--Margaret Helen. Born December 20, 1956. Passed away July 7 at her residence in Belvedere, California, from lung cancer. She is survived by her mother Robin R. Henry, brother Michael Henry Page, nephews Tyler, Cole and Alec Page, aunt Cynthia R. Boyer and great-aunt Jane Rau. She was t
 SALENGER--Anne Goldenberg (94). November 7, 1909July 9, 2004. Described by her many friends as a ''grand lady,'' she was laid to rest next to her husband of 52 years, Dr. Saul A. Salenger (d. 1988). Her last three plus years were spent in Santa Monica, CA, near her only child, Gary Salenger
 TURNER--Barbara. The Wallack family mourns the untimely passing of Barbara Turner. The memories of the times we shared will be with us forever and our deepest sympathy goes to Michael, Ali and the rest of her family. With love, Lynn, Burt, Jordan, Jenny and Rob TURNER--Barbara, on J
 Betty Oliphant, a British-born teacher who as director of the National Ballet School in Toronto became a leading figure in ballet, died on Monday in St. Catharines, Ontario, near Toronto. She was 85. Her death was announced by a school spokeswoman, Pamela Rice. She was a bal
 BERMAN -- Alvera -''Chickie'', on July 11, 2004. Died peacefully at her home in Sarasota, Fl. Loving wife of the late Edward M. Berman. Devoted mother of Judy (Earle) Kazis, Rick (Elizabeth) Berman and the late Tom Berman. Loving grandmother of Deborah Kazis (Gideon Taylor), Kerry (Brad) Ph
 BRAWER--Florence D., 82, of Teaneck, NJ, formerly of Paterson, NJ, on July 12, 2004. Predeceased by her beloved husband Jerome, M.D. Survived by her sons Steven, David and Louis, and five grandchildren. Services are Thursday, 11AM, Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt. 4 East, Paramus, 
 HARPER--Lynn. On July 11, 2004. She is survived by husband Bruce, parents Rose and Charles Vialotti, and brother Charles Vialotti. She graduated from Marymont School, Smith College (summa cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa). She studied drama with Lee Strassberg, Harold Clurman and Stella Adler, amo
 HIRSCHBERG--Ruth Burchard: We are deeply grieved to record the passing of our beloved Ruth Hirschberg, daughter of the late Otto and Hedda Burchard, wife of our dear Senior Rabbi of blessed memory, Gunter Hirschberg. Born and educated in Germany, Ruth immigrated to Australia via England in 
 KENNEDY--Frances J. The Board of Directors of the National Orchestral Association is deeply saddened by the passing of its chairman, Frances J. Kennedy. Her extraordinary leadership, love of music, and devotion to helping others will be greatly missed. She enjoyed the affection, admiration 
 MERRITT--Ceil (Yetta). Wife of the late Hy Merritt. Beloved cousin and treasured friend. Ever graceful and full of life, she loved to dance. Service today, 1:30PM, Plaza, 91st and Amsterdam.       
 WEST -- Samantha Lauren, born 7/14/94. There is a place that is as far from here as breathing out is from breathing in. From there, Samantha shines her light on us with the gentle grace of a willow tree swaying in the soft summer breeze. Happy 10th birthday. Love, Ema-Susan Leitne       
 Frances Hansen, a self-described housewife who marshaled imagination -- surely not malice -- to make crossword puzzles she constructed more puzzling by using her own poems as clues, died on Friday at a hospital in Perth Amboy, N.J. She was 85. The cause was complications of a stroke
 GLASER - TAUBIN -- Jeanette. Died July 14, 2004 at the age of 81. Born May 3, 1923 in Russia. Formerly of Katonah, NY. Beloved mother of Matthew Glaser of Cambridge, MA and Claudia Glaser-Mussen of NYC, grandmother of Jacob. A warm talented woman who sang like an angel, whose voice brought 
 NAGLER--Thelma R., wife of the late Simon H. Nagler, MD; mother of Harris and Lauren; grandmother of Arielle and Gabrielle; mother-in-law of Freema and friend of many others; died on July 13, 2004. She was a dynamic, knowledgeable woman who will be missed greatly by all those who knew and l
 GELFAND -- Judy. Beloved wife and life partner of Marshall, our Foundation Chairman, which, under his guiding spirit, was formed 50 years ago at Syracuse University. Judy passed away on July 13, affectionately surrounded by her entire family, and is now at peace, ending her many years of fi
 JOHNS--Hazel T., 84, of New York City, died Friday, July 9, 2004 at Roosevelt Hospital New York City following a long illness. She had lived in New York City since September 1962. Born in Rangoon, Burma she was the daughter of the late Alfred Stanley and Grace Victoria Beggs Johns. From 197
 KENNEDY -- Frances (nee Judson). July 13, 2004, age 69, of Park City, Utah, formerly of Philadelphia, Connecticut, and New York. Wife of the late Stuart Ramsey Kennedy and mother of James C. II, Patricia K. Begley, Frances K. Graff, Ann K. St. George, and Martha C. Also survived by her 6 gr
 LEVINE--Leslie Drexler, age 50 on July 14, 2004. Beloved wife of David. Devoted mother of Courtney. Loving stepmother of Heather, Lara and Natasha. Cherished daughter of David and Annette Drexler. Dear sister of Gail and sister-in-law of Danny. Adored daughter-in-law of Sylvia and Abe Levin
 METLIS--Florence, 87, died July 13, 2004, of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, N.Y. Former school secretary of P.S. 203 in Brooklyn, N.Y., Hadassah member, loving wife, mother, and friend. Predeceased by her husband Mac, two sisters, and three brothers. Survived by her son, Schuyler Met
 BERINI--Bianca. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of our colleague Bianca Berini. A committed artist steeped in the great musical traditions of Italy, she was a vivid exponent of the great Verdi mezzo-soprano roles as well as leading parts in the Verismo repertoire. Following h
 HEISLER -- Sharon (Sokel) July 16. The entire Heisler family mourns the devastating loss of our beloved Sharon. Devoted wife to Eliot, loving mother to Amanda and James. Our broken hearts will never fully heal. May her memory be a blessing for all eternity. HEISLER--Sharon (nee Soko
 LEVINE -- Leslie. Loving mother to Courtney, devoted wife to David, and beloved friend. The Savaglio family deeply mourns the death of an incredible human being, Leslie Levine. We are truly grateful for the friendship that started twelve years ago when our son Adam met Courtney in pre-schoo
 CAMPBELL--Barbara B., 57, a resident of New Canaan, CT and wife of Michael E. Campbell, died on July 15, 2004 at home after a long and valiant struggle against cancer. Born in Boston, MA, she was the daughter of the late Ruth Pitkin Burnett and Richard Burnett of Oneonta, NY. A 1968 graduat
 HARTMANN -- Anneliese Buss. Passed away peacefully after a long illness on July 11, 2004 in Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City. Beloved wife of the late Hans A. Hartmann, M.D. She was born in Bernsdorf O/L Germany in 1925. Graduating from the Bernsdorf Hochschule she went on to study busi
 HEISLER--Sharon (Sokol), of Great Neck, NY, July 16, 2004. Loving wife of Eliot Heisler; mother of Amanda and James; daughter of Judith and Martin Sokol; sister of Deborah and Robert Hollander, Suzy and Joseph Sokol; aunt to Samantha, Brandon, Alex, Yasmine and Aaron. She will be missed for
 PAYSON--Sandra Helen. Of Delaplane, VA, and Washington, DC, formerly of NYC. On July 15, 2004. She grew up in Manhasset, NY, with her parents Joan Whitney and Charles Shipman Payson, and with her beloved siblings Payne Middleton, Lorinda deRoulet and John Payson. Her eldest brother, Daniel 
 RINNS--Ilse E. (nee Blum). 82, of Riverdale, NY, on July 16, 2004. Survived by Walter, her husband of 54 years, and daughter Jennifer and son-inlaw Kent of Denver, CO.       
 Bella Lewitzky, a modern-dance pioneer and an outspoken champion of artistic freedom, died on Friday in an assisted-care center in Pasadena, Calif. She was 88. She had a heart attack after a stroke, said Marjorie Perces, a friend. A fearless and tireless dancer, choreographe
 KURNITZ--Julie. Singer, actor, writer, speaker, died July 15, 2004, of complications from Marfan Syndrome. Julie will be missed by her sister, Lyz Kurnitz-Thurlow, brother-in-law John Thurlow, nephews Adam (wife Aimee) and Alex, and a host of friends. A memorial celebration will be planned.
 O'CONNOR -- Mary Wistar Morris. 102, of Mt. Kisco, NY, died peacefully at her home on July 13. She was born in Hartford, CT and attended Miss Porter's School, Farmington, CT. Among her community interests were the District Nursing Association and the Bedford Garden Club of which she was a p
 PAYSON--Sandra H. The Board of Directors, staff and artists of Lincoln Center Institute mourn the passing of founding Board member Sandra Payson, whose keen intelligence, passionate interest and generous leadership helped to shape the organization. We extend deepest sympathies to her childr
 SEIDEN--Anne Fay. 77, on July 16, 2004, after a courageous battle with a long illness. Adored wife of Seymour. Devoted mother of Wendy. Loving grandmother of Rebecca. She will live in our minds and hearts forever more       
 DIETRICH - SIEGEL -- Andrea. 65, of Bay Ridge, died Sunday, July 18, 2004. She was the business manager of the Home Reporter paper. Ms. Dietrich-Siegel was a lifelong resident of Bay Ridge. Beloved mother, grandmother and friend. She was predeceased by her mother, Gertrude Dietrich, and her
 HEISLER -- Sharon (Sokol) July 16. The entire Heisler family mourns the devastating loss of our beloved Sharon. Devoted wife to Eliot, loving mother to Amanda and James. Our broken hearts will never fully heal. May her memory be a blessing for all eternity.       
 JAFFE--Gertrude ''Trudy''. July 19, 2004 of Boca Raton. Formerly of Manhasset, NY. Loving wife of the late Ralph to whom she was married for 53 years. Adored mother of Leonard (Linda) Jaffe and Rochelle (David) Greenberg. Cherished grandmother of David, Brian, Lindsay, Evan and Todd Samuel.
 McCHESNEY--Ruth B., died on July 18 in Sewickley, PA. She was born July 1, 1915 in Evanston, IL. Best known for her miniatures--small reproductions of classic rooms-she created over 20 rooms on display at museums including the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh, the American Museum in Bath, Engl
 SANDERSON -- Judith (nee Parks), 57, of Chicago, IL., died at home on July 18, 2004 following a four month battle with ovarian cancer. Following a successful career in Development at the College of William and Mary, Princeton University and the University of Chicago, Judith retired from her
 WEISS--Elaine (nee Taleisnik). 76, of White Plains, NY. Suddenly on July 18. Survived by her husband of 50 years, Martin, her three sons David, Robert and Fred, three loving daughters-in-law, and three grandsons. Services Tuesday, July 20, 12 noon at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad
 WISE--David J., 94. Former producer of the ''Message of Israel'' radio program died on July 18, 2004. Beloved husband of Mildred, father of Jonathan and Jeremy, fatherin-law of Lesly and Randi, adored grandfather of Jeffrey, Todd, Daniel and Elizabeth, devoted brother of Joan Kaufman. Mr. W
 BERNEY--Tomi Deutsch on July 20, 2004. Loving wife of Stuart. Cherished mother of Dawn, Wendy, JJ, and Kerri and mother-in-law of Edward, Richard and Michelle. Adored grandmother of Samantha and Jack. Devoted daughter of Sylvia and the late Sam Deutsch. Services will be held at 11:30AM toda
 BRADY--Elizabeth R. July 19, 2004, beloved wife of the late Bernard F. Brady, loving mother of Elizabeth Dwyer, Keara Reilly, Angela Milora, Dorothy Haines, and Bernard F. Brady III, cherished grandmother and great grandmother. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 S
 HURWITZ -- Thelma (nee Gold). July 20, 2004. The world has lost a truly unique woman who has left an indelible mark on all who knew her. Predeceased by loving and beloved husbands, Rabbi Abraham Hertzen (1950) and Joseph Hurwitz (1988), Thelma's devotion and love for her children, Barbara H
 MARTINEZ -- Marcella A., O.D. (Jamaica), 64, died peacefully July 11, 2004. Survived by her brother John A. and sister-in-law Melanie R. Martinez of Atlanta; her nephew John, his wife Tara, children Gabriel & James; her niece Alexandra, and Leroy. Memorial Mass was held at St. Thomas More C
 McCHESNEY--Ruth B., died on July 18 in Sewickley, PA. She was born July 1, 1915 in Evanston, IL. Best known for her miniatures--small reproductions of classic rooms-she created over 20 rooms on display at museums including the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh, the American Museum in Bath, Engl
 PHILLIPS--Martha Jane Potter (''Marty'') of Delray Beach, FL. Marty died peacefully in the arms of her family at ''Pine Ledge'' on July 16th, 2004. She is survived by her daughter, Jane Rust Munson Harrison, her son-in-law, J.B. Harrison, and her granddaughters, Timothy Laurel Harrison and 
 Anne Gorsuch Burford, a Colorado conservative who was chosen by President Ronald Reagan as his top environmental regulator only to resign under Congressional fire 22 months later, died Sunday in Aurora, Colo. She was 62. The cause was cancer, her daughter, Stephanie Gorsuch of Denve
 DOERSAM--Mary Lou, on Monday, July 19th, 2004 at Alexandria Hospital. Beloved wife and soulmate of Christopher J. Doersam. Sister of Wanda Prisinzano. Daughter of Florence Prisinzano and the late Joseph Prisinzano. Mary Lou was a registered nurse for 25 years. She worked at the Washington H
 SANDORF--Florence Kurtz. On July 20, 2004 at age 68. Beloved wife of Irving, loving mother of Julie, Lisa and Caralynn, adoring mother-inlaw of Michael, cherished grandmother of Sarah and Aidan. Entrepreneur, artist, great talker, and lover of animals, she led a rich and fulfilled life. She
 GREENBERG--Jeannette, 84. Beloved wife of Harold. Loving mother of Arlene and Andy (Linder), Joel and Leslie Greenberg and Phyllis Greenberg. Adored grandmother of Jonathan, David, Dana and Adam. Cherished brother of Seymour Halbert. A woman of great strength and dignity who was deeply devo
 LESBERG--Ivy. Died on July 21, 2004, at the age of 101, in her home of many years in Great Neck, NY. Her husband of 63 years, Myer, predeceased her in 1986. She is survived by three children, Eileen Lesberg of Manhasset, Nancy Bear of NYC, and Sandy Lesberg of Williamsburg, VA, seven grandc
 LUCAS--Sylvia M. We mourn the passing of Sylvia Lucas. For 62 years, the beloved wife to Leo. Loving mother to Barbara Lucas and Marcia Kessler and their husbands Richard Nesson and Eric Kessler. Dear sister to Helen. Adoring grandmother to Rachel, Mara, Jason and Brandon, and great grandmo
 McHUGH--Ann M. We note with sorrow the loss of our friend and supporter. Our sympathy to her family and those who worked with her at The Carvel Foundation. Richard Bloom, Pres./CEO Richmond Children's Fndtn       
 SANDORF--Florence. We are devastated at the loss of our ''Auntie Florence'' who brightened our lives with her warmth, beauty, laughter and guidance. We extend our love and sympathy to our dear friends Irving, Julie, Michael, Sarah, Lisa, Caralynn and Aidan. The memory of her remarkable spir
 THOMAS--Hilda. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Hilda Thomas. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President       
 TOMPKINS--Rebecca Crane, 89, died in Belfast, ME, of congestive heart failure. She had recently transferred from her home on Islesboro, built by her grandmother in 1899. Born in New York City on May 5, 1915, Mrs. Tompkins was the only child of Rebecca Riggs Crane and Clinton H. Crane, the n
 GOIDELL--Gladys Bartos, on July 22, 2004. Loving mother of Lucy and son-in-law Tony and loving grandmother of Benjamin, William and Rebecca. May she be at peace in her place of rest. Service Sunday 1 P.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street & Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GREENBERG -- Jeannette. The Board of Governors and members of The Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Jeannette Greenberg. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her husband Harold and family. Ted Markson, President       
 HOPPER -- Wendy Berzine. Husband Jack Hopper and sons Jonathan and Owen note with sorrow the passing of their wife and mother. She was deeply beloved. Jack, Jonathan and Owen HOPPER--Wendy Berzine. A gay and joyous woman has left us leaving a much bleaker world. Her brother, aunt, u
 KING--Susan Bennett, a former chair of the U.S. Consumer Products Safety Commission whose leadership career in government, the private sector and education spanned four decades, died of cancer on July 22, 2004 in Hillsborough, N.C. She was 64. She was born April 29, 1940, in Sioux City, Iow
 McHUGH--Ann. The members of the Board of Directors of Helping Hands: Monkey Helpers for the Disabled are deeply saddened by the passing of Ann McHugh. We send our heartfelt condolences to the McHugh family. She was a superlative and generous friend of Helping Hands who made our existence po
 SANDORF--Florence. We are devastated at the loss of our ''Auntie Florence'' who brightened our lives with her warmth, beauty, laughter and guidance. We extend our love and sympathy to our dear friends Irving, Julie, Michael, Sarah, Lisa, Caralynn and Aidan. The memory of her remarkable spir
 Yoko Watanabe, a Japanese soprano who was renowned for the gracefulness and intensity of her portrayal of Cio-Cio-San, the tragic title character of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly,'' died on July 15 at her home in Milan. She was 51. A Japan Opera Foundation official announced her deat
 DELLAY--Mirianne Marshall Ralli, died July 13, 2004 after a long illness. As Mirianne Marshall she performed in many films, on stage and in commercials. For the past few years she lived in Miami, Palm Beach and New York City. She was a member of the Surf Club in Miami and the Dutch Treat Cl
 GOIDELL--Gladys Bartos, on July 22, 2004. Loving mother of Lucy and son-in-law Tony and loving grandmother of Benjamin, William and Rebecca. May she be at peace in her place of rest. Service Sunday 1 P.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street & Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GREENBERG -- Jeannette. The United Cerebral Palsy Association of Nassau County, Inc. deeply regrets the loss of a devoted supporter of our agency, Jeannette Greenberg. We express our sympathies to her husband, Harold, a past president of our Board of Directors, and her family and friends. T
 HOFFMAN--Gerard. July 22, 2004 of Brooklyn, NY. The members of Central Brooklyn Independent Democrats extend our deepest sympathies to our friend Judy and her family. Peace on earth.       
 KRAMER--Elsie M., age 87, passed away July 22, 2004 at her home in Belle Terre, LI. Elsie and her brother George were co-owners of George M. Kramer Flowers at 74 Trinity Place, NYC. She is survived by her brother Robert J. Kramer and wife Mildred of Belle Terre, nephew Robert W. Kraemer and
 LEVITAN--Lena, 94, of West Palm Beach, FL and Mt. Freedom, NJ, died July 14, 2004. She and her husband of 60 years, Meyer, who died in 1994, greatly enjoyed and contributed to the retirement community of Golden Lakes in West Palm Beach. Lena was a committed elementary school teacher in the 
 McHUGH--Ann. The members of the Board of Directors of Helping Hands: Monkey Helpers for the Disabled are deeply saddened by the passing of Ann McHugh. We send our heartfelt condolences to the McHugh family. She was a superlative and generous friend of Helping Hands who made our existence po
 PUSEY--Anne W. On July 19, peacefully at home after a long illness. Widow of former Harvard president, Nathan Pusey, whom she married in 1936. She was well known and highly regarded for the support she provided him in that role, and throughout their long life together, and for her generous 
 RIBNER--Betty T. A previous notice of the passing of Betty T. Ribner inadvertently omitted that she was survived by her sister, Libbie TuckRosenberg. The family apologizes for this omission. We also take this opportunity to thank and honor Aunt Libbie for her generous support of the family 
 SANDERSON -- Judith (nee Parks), 57, of Chicago, IL., died at home on July 18, 2004 following a four month battle with ovarian cancer. Following a successful career in Development at the College of William and Mary, Princeton University and the University of Chicago, Judith retired from her
 TAUSEND--Marie of Encinitas, Calif passed away peacefully on July 18, 2004 at 95 years.She had a brief career in NYC theater and film in Hollywood in the 1930s, appearing in City Lights etc. In 1940, she married Francis Tausend of NYC, where she lived until 1976, when they moved to Florida 
 TOMPKINS--Rebecca Crane, 89, died in Belfast, ME, of congestive heart failure. She had recently transferred from her home on Islesboro, built by her grandmother in 1899. Born in New York City on May 5, 1915, Mrs. Tompkins was the only child of Rebecca Riggs Crane and Clinton H. Crane, the n
 von der LIPPE--Gail B. 60, of Hillsdale, NY, died at Albany Medical Center on July 13, 2004, as the result of an auto accident. She was born and grew up in Wellesley, MA. She graduated magna cum laude from Radcliffe College in 1966. She studied architecture at the University of California B
 Sandra Helen Payson, a socially prominent patron of the arts, died on July 15 in Manhattan, where she was visiting. A former New Yorker, she was 78 and lived in Washington and Delaplane, Va. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Payson was the founder and president of t
 BROOKS--Prue-Ann, passed away on July 19th. Beloved wife of Robert, sister of Frank, aunt of Sally and Guy, and daughter of the late Frank and Annie Strapp of Melbourne, Australia. A longtime, devoted United Nations Staff Member. The world has lost a truly unique woman who has left an indel
 MILLER--Roberta (Bobby). On July 24, 2004. Beloved wife of Sidney. Devoted mother of Amy and Neal Rosenberg, Adam and Sandra Miller, Jill and Marty Davis. Cherished grandmother of Joshua, George, Rachel, Hillary, Sarah and Amanda. Sister of Zena and Michael Wiener. Survived by loving aunts,
 PUSEY--Anne W. On July 19, peacefully at home after a long illness. Widow of former Harvard president, Nathan Pusey, whom she married in 1936. She was well known and highly regarded for the support she provided him in that role, and throughout their long life together, and for her generous 
 ROMARY--Darlene. Died on July 23, 2004, in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, after a long illness. Born in 1937 in Goose Creek, Texas, she graduated from St. Anthony High School in Beaumont, Texas, and attended Lamar University and the University of Houston. She was employed as executive secreta
 FINKEL -- Mildred. Beloved wife of the late Saul and the late Dr. Nathan Levine. Devoted mother of Linda and Ed Olarsch, Joan and Marty Levenson and Michael Levine. Dear sister of the late Louis, Sylvia and Paul Willner. Loving granmother of Amy and Steven Coven, Dr. Richard and Marsha Olar
 KING--Susan Bennett. National Public Radio mourns the death but celebrates the life of Susan Bennett King, a Charter Trustee of NPR Foundation, founded in 1993. Through her long career in the public and non-profit sectors, Susan's was a life of passionate service. As Vice Chair of The NPR F
 OLVIN--Margaret Endel, died July 25 at age 92. Survived by her daughter, Kathy Rieser and son, Arthur J. Rieser & his wife, Phyllis RosenRieser. She will be greatly missed by her extended family and friends. Graveside ceremony, 10AM on July 30 at Maimonides Cemetery, 927 Jamaica Ave, Brookl
 PUSEY--Anne W. The Board and staff of the Neighborhood Coalition for Shelter mourn the passing of our former board member, who brought both elegance and intelligence to her many years of service, along with great commitment to improving the lives of homeless men and women in our community. 
 SANDERS--Mildred. Passed away July 25, 2004, age 90. Beloved wife of the late Jack. Cherished mother of Pat and Jim Romano. Adored grandmother of Alisa. Brilliant, independent and remarkable to the end. Her family and friends will miss her.       
 BROOKS--Prue-Ann, passed away on July 19th. Beloved wife of Robert, sister of Frank, aunt of Sally and Guy, and daughter of the late Frank and Annie Strapp of Melbourne, Australia. A longtime, devoted United Nations Staff Member. The world has lost a truly unique woman who has left an indel
 FARBER--Pearl. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Pearl Farber. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Irving, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary      
 HOFHEIMER -- Natalie Doernberg. Beloved wife of Joseph, devoted mother of Judy and Larry Wiesen, Jean and Jim Bennett, Joanne and Paul Egerman, Jim and Teresa Hofheimer and Josie and Jerry Funchess. Adored grandmother to twelve grandchildren. Loving sister of Dudley Doernberg Jr., Margery B
 ISHIBASHI--Florence T. (nee Sugero). 74, of Princeton, NJ, died suddenly while vacationing in Maine on July 25, 2004. She is survived by her husband Samuel W. Ishibashi and their children, Chris and Matthew. Memorial donations may be made to The New York Times Neediest Fund.       
 LAFRIEDA--Lisa. B.R. Guest Restaurants, Inc. deeply regrets the passing of Lisa LaFrieda. She played an active role in the development of the Meatpacking District, holding a position on Community Board 2. She was generous to all and always willing to lend a hand. We extend our deepest sympa
 MARCUS--Cecilia. On July 26. We are deeply saddened by the untimely death of our mother Cecilia Marcus. Survived by her children Heidi Katz, Eric Marcus, and Lewis Marcus; grandchildren Rachel Katz, Ryan Marcus and Evan Marcus; by her sons-inlaw Bruce Katz and Barney Karpfinger and daughter
 OLVIN--Margaret Endel, died July 25 at age 92. Survived by her daughter, Kathy Rieser and son, Arthur J. Rieser & his wife, Phyllis RosenRieser. She will be greatly missed by her extended family and friends. Graveside ceremony, 10AM on July 30 at Maimonides Cemetery, 927 Jamaica Ave, Brookl
 PRIME--Jane Kerr of Pound Ridge, NY, died at her home on Saturday July 24, 2004. She is survived by her brother John Alex Kerr, her children, Eve, Alexandra and Corry, and her dogs Sadie and Pooh Bear. Adored by many, she will be fondly remembered for dancing in the kitchen, wearing crazy h
 SHORT--Janet Gerdes on July 25, 2004, at home in Durham, NC. Survived by husband of 59 years, Winthrop, three sons, Winthrop Jr., Andrew and David, a fourth, John, died in 1983, six grandchildren and sister, Margery Tessier. Graduate of Vassar College and the Yale Law School. Practiced law 
 Myra Waldo, a writer who filled bookshelves with advice on places to see and their cuisines, died Sunday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 88 and formerly lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said. Starting 
 FINKELSTEIN -- Jean (nee Baraf). Died in Florida on July 27, 2004 at age 94. Beloved mother of Maurice, Lisa and Leo. Grandmother of Shari, Daniel, Ari and Anna. Great-grandmother of Cole and Lara. She had a lengthy career as a buyer and divisional merchandise manager at A & S, Brooklyn. Se
 GALLER--Beatrice. Devoted wife of the late William Galler. Beloved mother of Lynne and the late Marc Galler. Friend of Hezzy Dattner. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, 11:30AM, Thursday. In lieu of flowers contributions to the Marc Galler Research Foundation, 146 Cent
 HOFHEIMER -- Natalie Doernberg. Beloved wife of Joseph, devoted mother of Judy and Larry Wiesen, Jean and Jim Bennett, Joanne and Paul Egerman, Jim and Teresa Hofheimer and Josie and Jerry Funchess. Adored grandmother to twelve grandchildren. Loving sister of Dudley Doernberg Jr., Margery B
 KONDRACKE--Millicent M. The Board of Directors and staff of The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research mourn the passing, and celebrate the life, of Millicent (''Milly'') Kondracke, wife of Board member Morton Kondracke. Milly's steadfast spirit and her willingness to share her 
 LOVETT--Libby Baraf. Beloved daughter of the late Samuel L. and Onnie Baraf and the late Beatrice F. Baraf. Wife of the late Nelson Mother of Michael (Shawn) and Onnie (Andrew Schiffmiller). Devoted grandmother of Jonah and Rena Schiffmiller. Sister of Charles Baraf (fiancee Jean), Donald B
 MESCHINO--Anne, on July 18, 2004, age 85. Devoted sister of William Meschino. Loving aunt of five nieces. Dear great-aunt of eight nieces and nephews. Also survived by many other family members and friends. Friends may call at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave (bet 20th & 21st St) Saturday 
 POLSKY--Edwin. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Edwin Polsky, beloved father of Gail Rudnick, a treasured supporter of the Jewish community. We extend our deepest sympathies to Gail and her husband David; and to the entire family
 RICHARDSON -- Rosamound (Fitch), age 94, a life-long resident of Sewickley, PA, on Tuesday, July 27, 2004. Wife of the late Frank E. Richardson, Jr. Loving mother of Anne Johnson (Ted), Frank E. Richardson (Kimba), Thomas F. Richardson (Joy), Beth Clements (Robert), Susan Schenker (Carl), J
 LOVETT--Libby Baraf. Beloved daughter of the late Samuel L. and Onnie Baraf and the late Beatrice F. Baraf. Wife of the late Nelson Mother of Michael (Shawn) and Onnie (Andrew Schiffmiller). Devoted grandmother of Jonah and Rena Schiffmiller. Sister of Charles Baraf (fiancee Jean), Donald B
 RAKOFF--Muriel, ended her courageous battle with multiple myeloma on July 29, 2004 at age 74. She was the loving wife of Irving Rakoff. Cherished mother of Jamie (wife Diane), Eric (wife Carole) and Steven (wife Amy) Rakoff. Also surviving, sister, Carol Lusthaus (husband Steven), sister-in
 RICHARDSON -- Rosamound (Fitch), age 94, a life-long resident of Sewickley, PA, on Tuesday, July 27, 2004. Wife of the late Frank E. Richardson, Jr. Loving mother of Anne Johnson (Ted), Frank E. Richardson (Kimba), Thomas F. Richardson (Joy), Beth Clements (Robert), Susan Schenker (Carl), J
 SALTZ--Carol. We mourn the loss of Carol Saltz, beloved wife of Alan and loving mother of Hallie and Aaron. She is also survived by her mother, Rosalie Greif, her siblings, Merril and Michael, and her mother-in-law, Helen Saltz. The funeral will take place today at 2:00PM at Parkside Memori
 SUFFERN--Cecil H. A life time resident of NYC at her home on July 27, 2004. She is survived by her son, Stephen J. Suffern, her brother Melville Harris and her sister, Pearl Hoag. Mrs. Suffern was for many years director of broadcasting for the NYC Board of Education radio and television ne
 Viola Frey, an artist known for large, colorfully glazed clay sculptures of men and women that expanded the traditional limitations of ceramic sculpture, died on Monday at her home in Oakland, Calif. She was 70. The cause was colon cancer, said Nancy Hoffman, her New York dealer.   
 Jane Hoffman, a versatile actress on and off Broadway, died on Monday at a hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif., her son, Sam McMurray, said. She was 93 and had lived in Manhattan until moving to Los Angeles recently. Ms. Hoffman was in more than 20 shows on Broadway from 1940 into th
 LeVINE--Dorothy S. on July 29, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Ralph LeVine. Beloved mother of Adrienne. Former owner of AirFlow Mattress Company in Brooklyn. She gave tirelessly of her expertise to her community and temple over many years. Graveside service will be held at Knollwood Park Ce
 RAMSING--Martha Wrightson. Of natural causes, at home on July 28. Daughter of the late Josephine and William G. Wrightson. She was the loving wife of Thor H. Ramsing of Greenwich, CT, Palm Beach, FL and Edgartown, MA. Devoted mother of Martha R. Zoubek, Cynthia R. McGinnes, Elizabeth R. Pal
 STEIKER -- Barbara. We mourn the loss of our member and extend heartfelt sympathy to her family. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Arliene Reich, President       
