 CARVER-Marie (nee Frega), died at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center, on August 30, 1998, after a brief illness. Mrs. Carver was predeceased by her beloved husband, William and her fond companion, Charles Dreitlein. She is survived by her dear cousin, Sophie Walsh and her devoted brother
 ENGLE-Margaret Sheehan. Died suddenly Sunday, August 30, she was 81. As Margaret Sheehan, she had a long career as an actress. She appeared on Broadway in ''Picnic'', and was a mainstay on the stock circuit with her late husband Dale Engle. She performed at prominent theaters such as the Al
 GORDON-Abraham N. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the father of our Member, Florence Wassner, and extends to her and the family our heartfelt condolences.       
 MACLAY-Jennifer Truslow. Of Charlottesville, VA. Formerly of Wilton, CT. Died in a car accident on August 28 in Charlottesville. She is survived by her sister, Susan Finnis of Cheshire, England & four children, Michael Truslow of Charlottesville, Sara Truslow Hardin of N.Y., Elizabeth Salva
 SCHERR-Alice. Of Palm Beach, Fla. and previouly Great Neck. Died peacefully at her home on Sunday. Beloved wife of the late Percy. Loving mother to Ellen, to Richard and Ellie, and Kenneth. Adored nanny to Nicole and Ross and to Michael and Jonathan. We will all remember your dignified beau
 SILLS-Ruth Fife. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ruth Fife Sills. Our sympathies are extended to her husband, Nathaniel L. Sills, and her children, Lawrence and Susan, Arthur and Sarah, Peter and Susan, and to her brother, Bernard Fife. Th
 JARNOW-Jeannette Abelow. August 31, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Alfred Jarnow, loving mother of Alfred Jarnow Jr, and Betsy Potter, cherished grandmother of Jesse, Daniel and Liza. She will be deeply missed. She was an accredited author as well as Professor Emeritus & Chair of The Busine
 MACLAY-Jennifer Truslow. Of Charlottesville, VA. Formerly of Wilton, CT. Died in a car accident on August 28 in Charlottesville. She is survived by her sister, Susan Finnis of Cheshire, England & four children, Michael Truslow of Charlottesville, Sara Truslow Hardin of N.Y., Elizabeth Salva
 O'LOUGHLIN-Jean M. (Gallant). Of Floral Park, NY, died September 1, 1998. She was predeceased by her husband, Joseph M. O'Loughlin, also of Floral Park. She is survived by five children, Anne, Jean, Noreen, Joellyn and Martin; four grandchildren; and six siblings, Marie Johnson, Francis Gal
 STEIN-Gertrude, 91. Beloved sister, sister-in-law, aunt and greataunt. Deceased 8/31 in Northport, FL. Thought to be the first woman graduate of City College Night School. Inspirational NYC public school teacher. Active Temple founder. Mother to us all. We will treasure her memory. Funeral 
 TOBIN-SCHATTNER-Lenore. The ''leading lady'' of the theatre party industry for over thirty years, passed away on September 1st. Survived by her sister, Jane Muccio, and her surrogate children, Patricia and Ronald Lee; and grandchildren Alison, Gillian, David, Stephanie and Christopher Lee; 
 LAPHAM-Grace W.C. Passed away Wednesday, September 2. She is survived by her three children, Thomas, Stephen, and Anne Codey, & by eight grandchildren. There will be a memorial service at Manhasset Meeting House on Saturday, September 5th at 10 AM. Family requests donation be made to the Ca
 LEVITT-Dena. Beloved mother of Dan Levitt, died at Mount Sinai Hospital on September 1. She was 82. Dena was the widow of the playwright Saul Levitt and had a distinguished career as a documentary film editor. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to The American Cancer Society, 19 
 Dr. Mary Lou Clements-Mann, an epidemiologist and vaccine expert who headed the center for immunization research at the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health in Baltimore, died with her husband in Wednesday night's plane crash off Nova Scotia. Like her husband
 Minerva Bernardino, a major force behind the founding of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women and a pioneer among Latin American feminists, died on Aug. 29 in the Dominican Republic. She was 91. Ms. Bernardino, who was appointed a representative of the Dominican Repu
 CLEMENTS - MANN - Dr. Mary Lou & MANN, Dr. Jonathan. Members of the Board of Directors, Scientific Advisory Committee, and staff of the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) mourn the tragic deaths of Dr. Mary Lou Clements-Mann and Dr. Jonathan Mann, pioneers in the global fight to e
 WALLACE-Gertrude de Lancey. Mother of Peter de L. and Helen W. Wallace, grandmother of Campbell Lloyd-, Peter Woodbridge, and Cornelia S. Wallace, died at home on September 1. Funeral service will be at St. Bartholomew's chapel, 50th Street & Park Avenue Friday, September 4, at 10:30 AM. Do
 ZUCKERMAN-Sara. Yeshiva University mourns the loss of a devoted mother, loving wife, and respected member of the Jewish community. We extend heartfelt condolences to her husband, Dr. Matthew M. Zuckerman; her daughters, Linda (and Tommy) Sandel, Karen (and Gary) Fragin, and Nancy (and Jacki
 Eloise O. Spaeth, an art collector and booster of American art in particular, died yesterday at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 96. Over many years, Mrs. Spaeth and her husband, Otto L. Spaeth, an industrialist and a vice president of the Whitney Museum of American Art, put t
 BISCHOF-Lillian E. Born in New York City, formerly of Lititz, PA. died Wednesday. She was a retired elementary school teacher in New York City. Her husband predeceased her in 1995. Survived by three daughters Beth Scholfield, Carol B. Wilson & Lynne McClure and brother William F. Ehret of C
 SPANOPOULOU-Eugenia, Ph.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine deeply mourn the tragic, untimely passing of our esteemed colleagues Eugenia Spanopoulou, Ph.D., and her beloved husband Andrew Hodtsev, Ph.D., along with their 18 month old son, Platon, in the cras
 Inge Aicher-Scholl, who inspired a generation of pacifists in post-World War II Germany by writing about an anti-Nazi youth movement and the killing of her brother and sister, died on Friday. She was 81, and suffered from cancer. Mrs. Aicher-Scholl moved millions of Germans toward n
 DANIELL-Tatiana (Tania) Long. In Ottawa, on Friday, September 4, 1998. Widow of Francis Raymond Daniell, New York Times correspondent for 38 years in the U.S., Britain, Europe and Canada, deceased in 1969. Mother of Robert M. Gray, deceased in 1981. Herself, a newspaper correspondent first 
 DEPLEDGE-Jane E. It is with great sorrow that the partners, counsel, associates and staff of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae L.L.P., mourn the untimely passing of our friend and colleague Jane E. Depledge, who along with her mother, father and brother did not survive the crash of Swissair Fl
 HODES-Shirley. Beloved wife of Bernard. Devoted mother of Margaret and Henry. A great Latin teacher and scholar, an accomplished cook, who brought love and light into so many people's lives. Passed away August 22, 1998 in Weston, CT. Donations in her memory may be made to the American Cance
 JAFFE-Trude Michel. On August 31, 1998 after a short illness. Wife of the late Herman J. Jaffe who died January 23, 1998. Senior Editor, crossword puzzles, Los Angeles Times Syndicate. She will be missed and fondly remembered by her family, which includes Herman's, and by her many friends. 
 MACHSON-Malvina K. On September 4, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Eddie. Loving mother of Laurie. She was loved and admired by her family and so many friends. Service Sunday, 1:30 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 MORAN-Lori. Lori was a wonderfrul skating school director and competiive coach whose tragic loss with her husband, Michael Ditchkus, on Swissair Flight 111 will be felt deeply by the professional skating community. Her compassion and kindness will be forever remembered. Our hearts go out to
 ROTH-Genevieve Kolczynski. 91, of Rockville Centre, New York passed away peacefully September 4, 1998 at her home of 63 years. Beloved wife of the late Arthur T. Roth, and loving mother of Donald Roth and Carol Madigan, she also leaves their spouses Trish Roth and Jay Madigan, five grandchi
 SALLOVITZ-Elinore Kass. August 21, 1998. Beloved wife of Myron and mother of Joy Firshein, Karen and Linda Sallovitz. Loving sister of Seymour and Alby Kass and Sharon Silbert and grandmother of Jessica and Jenna Firshein. She was deeped loved and will be greatly missed.       
 SPAETH-Eloise O'Mara. Of East Hampton, NY on September 4, 1998. Wife of the late Otto. Much beloved mother of Otto L. Spaeth, Jr.(Tony), Mary Louise Koon of St. Louis, and the late Marna Doherty and Deborah Shakespeare Green. Grandmother of sixteen. Great grandmother of 15. Mass of Christia
 SPANOPOULOU-Eugenia. The students, faculty, and staff of the Mount Sinai Graduate School of Biological Sciences mourn the tragic deaths of a stellar member of the faculty, Eugenia Spanopoulou, her husband Andrew Hodtsev, and their son Platon in the crash of Swissair 111. Eugenia was a brill
 WILSON-Jane Wylie. 71. A retired literary agent died at her home in Manhattan on Friday, 4 September. The cause of death was a complication from emphysema. Ms. Wilson was a graduate of Barnard College Class of '49. Her career as an agent began at the William Morris Agency while working for 
 WOLF-Dora H. November 27, 1902-September 2, 1998. Beloved wife of Joseph (deceased). Devoted mother of Howard (Arline), Seena (Fred) and Robert (deceased Syma). Cherished grandmother of Leslie, David, Debbie, Tracy, Shari. Great grandmother of Brian, Jeffrey, Michael, Joshua, Jeremy. Dear s
 ZUCKERMAN-Cookie. (nee Shreiber). AMIT is deeply grieved at the untimely passing of Cookie Shreiber Zuckerman, beloved daughter of our generous benefactor, Frances Shreiber Feder, z'l. A woman of noble spirit and character, she exemplified a long family tradition of magnanimous philanthroph
 FIELDS-Carol J. Remembered with love on her Birthday. The Family       
 Tania Long, a war correspondent for The New York Herald Tribune and The New York Times who covered the London blitz and the Nuremburg trials, died Friday morning at her home in Ottawa. She was 85. After suffering from a series of illnesses, Ms. Long committed suicide, said Dr. Guy G
 Frances Hamerstrom, who discovered a passion for observing nature as a young girl in Boston and pursued that passion throughout a life spent mostly in Wisconsin, died on Aug. 29 at Edgewater Haven, a nursing home in Port Edwards, Wis. She was 90. An author, conservationist and wildl
 BANOV-Ethel. Age 95. Much loved mother of Robert, widow of Jack Banov, sister of Richard E. Page. Passed away peacefully Saturday afternoon, September 5, 1998. She will always be missed. Graveside services will be private.       
 DANIELL-Tatiana (Tania) Long. In Ottawa, on Friday, September 4, 1998. Widow of Francis Raymond Daniell, New York Times correspondent for 38 years in the U.S., Britain, Europe and Canada, deceased in 1969. Mother of Robert M. Gray, deceased in 1981. Herself, a newspaper correspondent first 
 HARNICK-Rhoda. Died September 5, 1998, Pompano Beach, FL. Formerly of Flushing, NY. Beloved wife for 57 years of Leon. Mother of Arlene (Michael) Goodman, Dr. Paul (Katherine) Harnick and Janet (Robert) Rosenthal. Beloved grandmother of Elyse, Michael, Corey, Marc, Daniel, Alex, Paige, Remy
 SCHURGIN-Audrey. The SAR Academy family notes with great sorrow the passing of our former Associate Principal. Condolences are extended to her dedicated and devoted husband Marvin, sons Jonathan and Paul, her father Simon Grishman, and to the entire family. Funeral services will be held on 
 Virginia E. Rice, a former head of the department at Reader's Digest that selected books to excerpt or condense, died on Aug. 19 at her home in Tucson, Ariz. She was 53.  The cause of death was lung cancer, said Gary D. Yanker, her husband. Ms. Rice, who was known as Ginny, was born
 DANIELL-Tatiana (Tania) Long. In Ottawa, on Friday, September 4, 1998. Widow of Francis Raymond Daniell, New York Times correspondent for 38 years in the U.S., Britain, Europe and Canada, deceased in 1969. Mother of Robert M. Gray, deceased in 1981. Herself, a newspaper correspondent first 
 FELSEN-Quartararo-Danielle. Fly up Princess Bride on your cloud of white/You're a new angel now gliding towards the light/Our great love for you rides on your flight/ We know you'll gaze down from the height of all heights. Auntie Joan and Uncle Michael Her Spector-Rothschild cousins, Scott
 MOREA-Genevieve. Age 76. Of Beechhurst, New York. On September 6, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Jerome. Devoted mother of Jerry & Douglas. Beloved motherin-law of Cathy and Barbara. Adoring grandmother of Chris, Doug, Carrie and Alex. Sister of the late Mary Burrows. Reposing at Austin F. 
 SCHURGIN-Audrey. It is with profound sorrow that we mourn the loss of our beloved Audrey Schurgin, former General Studies Principal. With her unique gift of recognizing individual strengths, her loving and nurturing encouragement, and her open arms and warm smile, she touched the lives of t
 TOPF-GIBSON-Nancy. Born October 29, 1942. Died September 2, 1998. Nancy Topf-Gibson was a passenger on Swissair Flight 111 which was lost in the Atlantic Ocean with all passengers and crew while attempting an emergency landing near Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. Nancy was a master teacher, d
 WOLF-Dora H. November 27, 1902-September 2, 1998. Beloved wife of Joseph (deceased). Devoted mother of Howard (Arline), Seena (Fred) and Robert (deceased) Syma. Cherished grandmother of Leslie, David, Debbie, Tracy, Shari. Great grandmother of Brian, Jeffrey, Michael, Joshua, Jeremy. Dear s
 KELL-Yetta. The great lady, 12 years gone, but has never left the hearts of her children and all who knew her       
 Nancy Topf, a choreographer, dancer and teacher, died last Wednesday in the crash of Swissair Flight 111 off Nova Scotia. She was 55 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Topf performed with many choreographers in the post-modernist and more traditional new modern-dance scene in New York City
 CORBET-Sandra. Of Manhattan died on September 7, 1998 of a stroke. Her beloved fiance, Steven Poster, Mother Betty Leibowitz, brothers Philip and Steven Leibowitz, her sister and brother inlaw Deborah and Robert Weingarten and nieces Shirelle, Meora, and Talia Weingarten and many relatives.
 EISENDRATH-Barbara T. Age 75. Died at home, September 7, 1998. Wife of the late David B. Eisendrath. Survived by her brother, Richard Forrest and sister-in-law Judith, their two daughters and two nephews. A true New Yorker, Barbara Eisendrath shared her intellectual enthusiasms and her joie
 HAMMOND-Marion French, 90. On September 7, 1998, at Hightstown, New Jersey. She was the widow of Neill P. Overman, Ernest C. Johnson Jr., and Samuel Hammond. She is survived by her son Neill P. Overman Jr. of Stockton, N.J., her daughter Anne Overman Bunn of Short Hills, NJ, her sister Emil
 LEAVY-Doris L. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Leavy. Loving mother of Barbara and Arthur Klauber and Jane Overman. Cherished grandmother of seven. Great-grandmother of thirteen. Services will be private. Contributions in her memory may be made to UJA Federation, 130 East 59 Street, New Yor
 LITWIN-Celia. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Celia Litwin, and extends heartfelt condolences to her family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Martin Kay, President       
 LIVANAVAGE-Catherine A., 49 of Bedminster, NJ, died Sunday, September 6, 1998. Born in Brooklyn, NY, she was raised in upstate NY and lived in Basking Ridge and Far Hills moving to Bedminster 14 years ago. She was a supporter of the arts and many organizations that focused on the improvemen
 NELSON-Tara. The Milstein family and the Brokers and Staff of Douglas Elliman, offer their profound condolences to the family of Tara Nelson, who died in the crash of Swissair flight 111. Tara's many friends who knew her when she worked at Douglas Elliman remember her as an extremely profes
 NEMITOFF-Betty. Loving mother of Michael and daughter-in-law Ruth. Dear grandmother of Adam and Matthew. She taught silver/ gold jewelrymaking at the 92nd Street Y and was a freelance fashion illustrator. She was a very, very talented artist. She will be missed by all who knew her. Services
 ROSS-Andrine Adams. On September 6, 1998 in NYC. Beloved wife of David A. Ross. Loving daughter of the late William W. and Anna Adams. Dear sister of Carole Adams and William C. Adams. Services to be held on Thursday, September 10 at 11AM Most Holy Trinity Church, East Hampton, NY. In lieu 
 ROUTTENBERG-Lilly S., age 89, on September 7, 1998 in Clifton, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Max J. Routtenberg. Loving mother of Ruth R. Seldin, Aryeh Routtenberg and the late Naomi Routtenberg. Cherished grandmother of Alex, Yael, David and Noam. Devoted sister of Bernice Schneiderma
 SCHURGIN-Audrey. We mourn the loss of our unforgettable colleague, Audrey-our mentor, booster and friend with her welcoming smiles, enveloping hugs and upbeat vibrance. She spurred us to do only our best. Audrey's conviction that each child is a gem to be polished will forever guide us. We 
 SHERMAN-Anna (Newta). On September 6th, 1998 at the age of 93. Beloved wife of the late Meir Sherman, Israel's first Economic Minister to the United States, first Chairman of the Board of Bank Leumi Trust Company of New York, & Managing Director of Paz Oil Company in Israel. Devoted sister 
 TOPF-Nancy. Choreographer and educator of the highest order, whose imagination over the years helped to build the world's most extraordinary dance community. A single tragic moment only confirms the immense contribution she has made to our lives and creativity; she survives on our stages an
 ASHER-Gertrude. Aged 81. An educator and progressive, died September 5, after a short illness. She is survived by her son Robert, of Willimantic, Conn., her grandchildren Tanya Arenson & Samuel Arenson, her nephews Paul Stamler and Paul Steinberg, and her niece Jane Steinberg Zucker. A priv
 BERKOWITZ-Philip. We extend sincerest condolences to Sabine Berkowitz on the passing of her beloved husband. As Founders of the hospital they have played a vital role in ensuring state-of-the-art and compassionate medical care to the people of Israel. May the entire family be comforted amon
 FREEMAN-Gertrude. On September 8, 1998 Gertrude Freeman (nee Posner). Loving wife of the late Charles Freeman, beloved mother of Barbara Plasse of Baltimore, MD, and the late Arnold S. Freeman. Devoted mother-in-law of Dr. Jerome S. Plasse. Loving grandmother of Arnold Scott, Charles Lawren
 GELBLUM-Olga Kramer Margolin. In her 103rd year. Widowed by Elias Margolin in 1919. Loving wife of Jack (dec.). Beloved mother of Pearl Margolin Zimmerman, adored Nana of Margo and Ken Fuld and Jill and Ely Zimmerman. Great Nana to Margaret & Jeffrey Fuld, Elaine Fuld and Joseph DeMatteo, C
 HIBBS-Vivian A. Died of cancer at the Mt. Sinai Hospital on Monday evening September 7, 1998. Dr. Hibbs, born in Iowa City, IA. was an archaeologist, participating for several seasons in the excavations at Francolisa, near Naples, Italy. After graduating from Hunter College and receiving he
 KRIDEL-Carol H., 78. September 8, at home. She was the widow of William J. Kridel. She is survived by her son, William J. Kridel, Jr, of London and New York, and by her daughter, Linda K. Smith, of Beloit, Wisconsin, and by three grandchildren. Burial will be private. A memorial service wil
 MALLIN-Gilda and Ralph. The National Board of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the tragic loss of Gilda Mallin, President of the Boca West Chapter of Hadassah, and of her beloved husband Ralph, who perished on SwissAir Flight 111. A Hadassah life member, Gilda c
 NELSON-Tara. Beloved daughter of Sheila & Robert; loving fiancee of Edward Firouztale; adoring sister of Judith & Jean-Paul Thibaud and niece of Laurie and Al Michel. We mourn the loss of this most wonderful & caring human being who was tragically taken from us by Swissair Flight 111. Recen
 SHERMAN-Anna (Newta). On September 6th, 1998 at the age of 93. Beloved wife of the late Meir Sherman, Israel's first Economic Minister to the United States, first Chairman of the Board of Bank Leumi Trust Company of New York, & Managing Director of Paz Oil Company in Israel. Devoted sister 
 ZUCKERMAN-Sarah. The Mesivta of Long Beach marks with sorrow the loss of Mrs. Sarah ''Cookie'' Zuckerman, of blessed memory, mother of our dear friend Mrs. Gary Fragin. Her elegance and smile, reflective of her illustrious family's dedication to Torah, will long be remembered. Our heartfelt
 ALDRICH-Susan Cutler. Of Barrytown, NY, died at home at Rokeby, September 9, 1998, in her 85th year. Widow of Richard Chanler Aldrich, daughter of the late John Wilson and Rosalind Fish Cutler. Survived by her children Richard and John Winthrop Aldrich, both of Barrytown, NY, and Rosalind M
 KRASNOV-''Tippi'' Mildred Marshall Clarke. Devoted and loyal wife of Robert. Loving mother of Jonathan. Died on Wednesday, September 9 in Norwalk Hospital, Norwalk, CT. She lived life to the fullest. She will be sorely missed by all those that loved her. Family will receive friends in the H
 KRIDEL-Carol H., 78. September 8, at home. She was the widow of William J. Kridel. She is survived by her son, William J. Kridel, Jr, of London and New York, and by her daughter, Linda K. Smith, of Beloit, Wisconsin, and by three grandchildren. Burial will be private. A memorial service wil
 KURZMANN - Sam. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Betty on the loss of her husband. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 PALMER-Susan B. On September 2, 1998. Devoted wife of F. Morgan Palmer. Loving mother of F. Morgan Palmer Jr. and Thomas P. F. Palmer. Contributions may be sent in her memory to The Church of The Holy Trinity Garden Fund, 316 E. 88 St, NY, NY 10128       
 SCHICKLER-Else. Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Margo Scheiner on the loss of her mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 HERTZAN-Heather G. March 1, 1981-Sept. 11, 1993. Lovingly remembered by all who knew her.       
 ALDRICH-Susan Cutler. We loved Aunt Susan and will miss her. Our sincere condolences to the family. Love, Patricia, Nick, and Maria       
 KRASNOV-''Tippi'' Mildred Marshall Clarke. Devoted and loyal wife of Robert. Loving mother of Jonathan. Died on Wednesday, September 9 in Norwalk Hospital, Norwalk, CT. She lived life to the fullest. She will be sorely missed by all those that loved her. Family will receive friends in the H
 KRIDEL-Carol H., 78. September 8, at home. She was the widow of William J. Kridel. She is survived by her son, William J. Kridel, Jr, of London and New York, and by her daughter, Linda K. Smith, of Beloit, Wisconsin, and by three grandchildren. Burial will be private. A memorial service wil
 ALDRICH-Susan Cutler. Of Barrytown, NY, died at home at Rokeby, September 9, 1998, in her 85th year. Widow of Richard Chanler Aldrich, daughter of the late John Wilson and Rosalind Fish Cutler. Survived by her children Richard and John Winthrop Aldrich, both of Barrytown, NY, and Rosalind M
 COSLOW-Frances Virginia Williams. Of Studio City, CA, died August 7. A memorial service was held on August 11, in Studio City. Burial was in Enid, Oklahoma, where she was born and raised. She lived most of her adult life in Miami and New York, moving to California in 1995. Frances was a pro
 KRIDEL-Carol H., 78. September 8, at home. She was the widow of William J. Kridel. She is survived by her son, William J. Kridel, Jr, of London and New York, and by her daughter, Linda K. Smith, of Beloit, Wisconsin, and by three grandchildren. Burial will be private. A memorial service wil
 NELSON-Tara. Beloved daughter of Sheila & Robert; loving fiancee of Edward Firouztale; adoring sister of Judith & Jean-Paul Thibaud and niece of Laurie and Al Michel. We mourn the loss of this most wonderful & caring human being who was tragically taken from us by Swissair Flight 111. Recen
 ROSENBERG-Blanca. On September 11, 1998. Aged 84. Beloved mother of Alex and Mark. Grandmother of Eugene and Adrianne. Teacher, counselor, friend to all who knew her; full of wisdom, joy and understanding, courageous in the face of the Holocaust, ever hopeful and in love with life. Those sh
 SOREFF-Helen. 72, died peacefully in her sleep at her home in New York on September 10, 1998. She was a wonderful artist, teacher, mother and friend to many. Helen was a provacative, lively and imaginative person. She was a devoted wife and mother to her husband Stephen, and her children, A
 STRONGWATER-Roslyn. Passed away peacefully with her loving family at her side. She is survived by her three married children, 12 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren. Her love of life and great optimistic spirit will live on in the hearts and memories of her family and loving friends. F
 TOPF-GIBSON-Nancy. Born October 29, 1942. Died September 2, 1998. Nancy Topf-Gibson was a passenger on Swissair Flight 111 which was lost in the Atlantic Ocean with all passengers and crew while attempting an emergency landing near Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. Nancy was a master teacher, d
 WHITE-Rowenna L., at age 18. Victim of SwissAir Flight 111 crash on September 2. Beloved daughter of Nancy Wight of New York City and Paul R. White of Bronxville. Also survived by her stepmother Judith Lilleston White of Bronxville. Rowenna was on route to Geneva & Montreux, Switzerland to 
 NAPOLI-Phyllis (De Martino). Perished tragically on Swissair Flight 111 on Wednesday, September 2, 1998. She was the Product Development Manager for Klauber Bros. en route to a European trade fair. Phyllis was a very creative and highly respected merchandiser in the lace industry for over 2
 PILZER-Ursula (Ulla). On September 10, 1998, in Antibes, France. She was the beloved wife of George, dear sister-in-law of Herbert, wonderful aunt to Lynn and Eric Sobel and Neal and Anita Pilzer, and loving great-aunt to Anna and Peter Sobel and Lauren and Julia Pilzer. In lieu of flowers 
 RAYMOND-Mrs. Henrietta Dana Skinner. Historian, teacher and author, died at the Dunroven Health Care Center in Cresskill, NJ. She was 84 years old. Mrs. Raymond, known as Penny, earned her Master of Arts and Master of Philosophy degrees at Columbia University. She later published her thesis
 ROSENBERG-Blanca. The Faculty Advisory Council Administration and Alumni Association of the Columbia University School of Social Work record with sadness the death of Blanca Rosenberg. A respected teacher and author, she will be remembered for her wise counsel, caring nature and courageous 
 ROTH-Sophie. Born November 19, 1908 and died peacefully at home on September 12, 1998, two months and 1 week before her 90th birthday. Devoted mother of Rebecca Buch, cherished ''Grandma Sophie'' to Teri Ann and Philip Aron. Mamas like you were just like that. ROTH-Grandma Sophie. L
 SISITZKY-Dorothy (Ertman). Age 77, of Ironwood Lane, West Hartford, CT. Wife of Leonard H. Sisitzky, died suddenly at home on September 12, 1998. Born in Hartford, November 28, 1920, to Abraham and Lena (Eisenberg) Ertman, she lived in the Hartford area all of her life. She was a First Lieu
 Helen Soreff, a painter of subtly inflected Minimalist abstractions, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 72. Mrs. Soreff was born in Brooklyn in 1926. She earned a bachelor's degree in fine arts from the University of Georgia and studied at the Art Students League in 
 COLEMAN-Emily Morris, 84, of Charlottesville died of lung cancer on September 13, 1998. She was a music and dance critic of Newsweek from 1942 to 1964; and also wrote for The New York Times, Life, Opera News and numerous other publications. Born in San Antonio, Texas, she received a B.A. fr
 CUTLER-Esther (Mollie). Congregation Orach Chaim extends heartfelt condolences to our devoted member Janet Fried, her husband Michael, a member of the Board of Trustees, and to the entire family on the loss of their beloved mother and grandmother. May they be consoled among the mourners of 
 LEWIN-Frances (Frolich). Beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Member of the Hunter College Alumni Hall of Fame along with classmate Bella Abzug. For 20 years she was Commissioner of the Broadway show League giving entertainment each week to 400 members of the Broadway theatre community. Af
 PASTERNACK - Winifred. With tremendous sorrow I note the untimely death of my valued and dedicated partner in the law firm of Halpern & Pasternack, a superb lawyer and staunch civil libertarian, and a close friend for over 30 years. Winnie loved poetry and had a passion for good literature.
 PLATNICK-Hilda, on September 13, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Ray. Loving mother and motherin-law of Ellen and James Hochfelder and Barry and Jan Platnick. Adoring grandmother of Amy, Adam, Keri and Randy and greatgranddaughter, Samantha. Funeral services 10 o'clock, Tuesday, ''Boulevard 
 ROBERTO-Carolyn K. Died on Friday, September 11, at age 86. Graduate of Pratt Institute, student of Gilbert Rohde's Design Laboratory, architectural draftsman and designer. She was employed by Bernard Rothzeid and William Hall. She and her husband, Supervising Architect for NYU Joseph J. Ro
 VARGAS-Mindy. Age 47. Born March 31, 1951. The daughter of John and Shirley Vargas, last known to have resided in the New York City area. She died Monday, September 14, 1998 in the SUNY Health Science Center, Syracuse, NY. Would any kin or anyone knowing of any next of kin please call the R
 EDEY-Helen Winthrop (Kellogg), M.D., 86, of Chilmark, MA., and New York City, widow of Maitland Armstrong Edey. September 15. Pioneer in issues of international population and family planning, founding board member of the Association for Voluntary Sterilization, later AVSC, International. B
 HARRISON-Florence Friedberg. Age 92. Of Shamokin, PA on Sep 8, 1998. Beloved Mother of Robert H. Harrison, Scarsdale, NY, and cherished grandmother of Zachary & Alexander Harrison of Scarsdale. Beloved sister of Edith Friedberg Mesnick of Princeton, NJ, & loving wife of the late Maurice Har
 KRAAR-Ruth. The Boards and staff of United Jewish Appeal Federations of North America, a partnership of United Jewish Appeal, Council of Jewish Federations, and United Israel Appeal mourn the passing of Ruth Kraar, mother of Martin S. Kraar, who guided CJF as Executive Vice President for a 
 LEWIN-Frances (Froehlich). Beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Member of the Hunter College Alumni Hall of Fame. Commissioner of the Broadway Show League for 20 years. Survived by her husband Richard, three children, Jill Chesler of CA, Richard and Jay of NYC and five granddaughters. Serv
 MANDOLFO-Dolores (Dori), August 28. The Far West 10th Street Block Association mourns the loss of our wonderful President. We extend our sympathy to her beloved husband Anthony and her family. A memorial service will be held Saturday, October 17 at 10:30AM at St. Joseph's Church, 371 6th Av
 MASS-May. The leadership and Staff of The UAHC Greater New York Council of Reformed Synagogues, are profoundly saddened by the death of May Mass, our Past President and Administrator. After a short battle with acute leukemia, May died peacefully on Sept. 15th. She served the Reform Jewish C
 McLAUGHLIN-Marya. Monday, Sept. 14, 1998, of Washington, D.C. Miss McLaughlin is survived by her sister, Patricia McLaughlin Morgan of Bethesda, five nieces; Melissa Anne Morgan of Toronto, Canada, Marya Audrey Morgan of Cape May, NJ, Patricia Kearney Morgan of Rowayton, CT, Heather Morgan 
 STEIGER-Miriam. On Sept. 14, 1998 at age 90. Beloved wife of the late Sol. Cherished mother of Joel J. and wife, Carole Ann, of Ridgewood, N.J., and Dr. Norman and wife, Nancy, of Mamaroneck, NY. Loving grandmother of Andrew, Adam and David Steiger, Deborah Schnur, Elizabeth Newman & Sue El
 VARGAS-Mindy. Age 47. Born March 31, 1951. The daughter of John and Shirley Vargas, last known to have resided in the New York City area. She died Monday, September 14, 1998 in the SUNY Health Science Center, Syracuse, NY. Would any kin or anyone knowing of any next of kin please call the R
 WHITE-Rowenna L., at age 18. Victim of SwissAir Flight 111 crash on September 2. Beloved daughter of Nancy Wight of New York City and Paul R. White of Bronxville. Also survived by her stepmother Judith Lilleston White of Bronxville. Rowenna was en route to Geneva & Montreux, Switzerland to 
 Berenice Lipson-Gruzen, a pianist with a long international career, died on Sept. 3 in Bad Wiessee, Germany. She was 73 and lived in New York. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Lipson-Gruzen won notice with her visit to China in 1981, recording the Chopin Second Pia
 EDEY-Helen Winthrop (Kellogg), M.D., 86, of Chilmark, MA., and New York City, widow of Maitland Armstrong Edey. September 15. Pioneer in issues of international population and family planning, founding board member of the Association for Voluntary Sterilization, later AVSC, International. B
 MASS-May. Temple Emanu-el of Lynbrook mourns the death of our beloved Past President and extends our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Services at Temple Emanu-el of Lynbrook, 11AM Friday. Stuart Geller, Rabbi Harold I. Saperstein, Rabbi Emeritus Barbara Stern, President Rica Julie Timman, 
 MULLER-Hilda. In her 98th year. Beloved wife of William Muller. Former executive chef of the Metropolitan Opera Louis Sherry Restaurant in the old Metropolitan Opera House. She was a towering personality who operated Chalet Swiss in Warrensburg, New York for decades. Private funeral.       
 PACHTER-Vivian. Died Sept. 15, 1998. Beloved wife of Bernard. Mother of Lisa and David. Grandmother of Allison and Lindsey, & friend to many. Service Thursday, Sept. 17, 12 Noon, Riverside Chapel, 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions may be sent to East End Hospice, PO Box 1048, Westh
 SMITH-Helen Elizabeth (Tuck). Beloved wife of Donald A. Smith for 51 years. Devoted mother of Leslie E. Smith and grandmother to Haley Elizabeth and Gillian Ann Brocksmith. Also survived by her sister Claudia and brothers Scott, Walter and Emerson. Contributions in her memory may be made to
 YOUNG-Jean Connolly. Died at home on Sept. 15, 1998, surrounded by her family. Beloved wife of Joseph for fifty years. Loving mother to Megan Zwerner, Joseph Jr, Peter & Steven Young. Cherished grandmother of Adam, Emily, Anne, Blake, Colleen and Hunter. A caring, loving aunt. A kind hearte
 ALTMAN-Helen. (Buddy) nee Blackman, September 17, 1998, in her 95th year, left peacefully to join her beloved husband Bill. Cherished mother of Joy and Harry Henshel and Sam Altman. Adored Meema Buddy to Dayle, Patti, Diane and Judy, greatgrandmother to Artemis, Ariel and Jaron. Services at
 FOSCARINIS-Rosa. Pediatrician, on August 24, 1998 in a tragic car accident in Athens, Greece. Donations in her memory to National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty, 918 F Street N.W., Suite 412, Washington, D.C. 20004.       
 HOCHBERG-Carol Elaine. Age 40. On Sept. 16, 1998 of breast cancer. She leaves her loving family, parents Herbert and Audrey Hochberg; sisters Brenda & Judith; their husbands David Dalgarno & Michael Mattis; grandmother Lea Hochberg, nieces & nephews and a warm circle of caring friends. She 
 NADOOLMAN LYONS-Julia. Age 40. Died Monday. She was born July 13, 1958 in Manhattan, New York. A certified public accountant, she was a 14 year resident of North Las Vegas. She is survived by her husband Keith of North Las Vegas, parents Jesse and Beatrice Nadoolman of New York City, and si
 SCHWARTZ - Dorothy Merritt. Passed away on Septmeber 14, 1998. Beloved wife of Martin. Cherished daughter of Dorothy and the late John R. Merritt, and dearest sister of Harry, Robert, William, Grover, and Steve. She will be forever remembered and loved.       
 SCHWARZ-Celia. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Amy Hirsch on the loss of her mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 CONDREN-Anne M., 93. Of Gristmill Lane, Plandome Mills, NY. On September 18, 1998. Wife of the late Edward I. Mother of William J., Professor Edward I., and Carol Carroll. Grandmother of Sloan Castleman, Sean, Ellen Crowley, Hillary, Colin, Elizabeth, Jennifer, and Mathew Carroll. Great-gra
 FISCHEL-Pauline. Beloved wife of Edward. Cherished mother of Robert and Janet. Loving motherin-law of Shelley and of Russ Whitehurst. Devoted sister of Ethel, and sister-in-law of the late Alfred Raphael. Also cherished sister-in-law to Daniel and Maxine and the late Leon and Elaine. Dear g
 HARRINGTON-Sybil. It is with profound sadness we mourn the death of Sybil Harrington, devoted member of our official family since 1967 and a Director of our Managing Board since 1980. One of the most generous Patrons in Metropolitan Opera history, in addition to her leadership gift to creat
 HEIFETZ-Elaine Fox, on September 16, 1998, after a long illness. She is survived by her husband, Simon, and her daughter, Jeanne, both of NYC; and two brothers, Steve Fox of Los Angeles, CA, and Robert Fox of Fernandina Beach, FL. A memorial service will be held at 1:30PM on October 4, 1998
 HOCHBERG-Carol. Carol was our friend and colleague for many years. Her courage is an inspiration to us all. She will be greatly missed. Arthur Rebell Mark Shapiro       
 LEE-Camilla Sewall Edge, 74, of Elm St. and Small Point, Maine died Wednesday, Sept. 16, at the Mid Coast Hospital in Brunswick, Maine of respiratory failure. She was born in Ventnor, New Jersey, October 25, 1923, a daughter of the Hon. Walter E. Edge and Camilla Sewall Edge. Her father ser
 Sybil Harrington, a philanthropist from Amarillo, Tex., who besides supporting medical, education and arts charities was the largest individual donor to the Metropolitan Opera in the company's history, died on Thursday in Phoenix, where she kept a winter home. She was 89. Grand oper
 Annabelle Irwin, a retired Iowa State English professor who drew on her experience as a high school teacher in collaborating on an acclaimed series of books for young teen-agers, died Sept. 13 at a daughter's home in Des Moines. She was 82, and with Lee Hadley had formed the writing team kn
 Carol Hochberg, an investment banker who turned a diagnosis of breast cancer into a life of advocating for fellow sufferers, died of the disease on Wednesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 40. When Ms. Hochberg learned of the cancer, her first reaction was 
 BERNSTEIN-Dr. Eva (Lichtenfeld). Sept 17, 1998. Survived by her nephews, Dr. Peter Lichtenfeld of Great Barrington, MA, Yoram Sadeh-Lichtenfeld of Israel; niece, Hanna Dubin of Westchester, NY; Sister-In-Law Leonia Field of NYC; several great nieces & nephews. Wife of the late Werner Bernst
 BLECHMAN-Sylvia. Died at her home on September 10, 1998 in her 89th year. Beloved widow of Nathan O. Blechman and supporter of numerous New York charities.       
 CONDREN-Anne M., 93. Of Gristmill Lane, Plandome Mills, NY. On September 18, 1998. Wife of the late Edward I. Mother of William J., Professor Edward I., and Carol Carroll. Grandmother of Sloan Castleman, Sean, Ellen Crowley, Hillary, Colin, Elizabeth, Jennifer, and Mathew Carroll. Great-gra
 EDEY-Helen, Dr. The Directors and Staff of The Scherman Foundation are saddened by the loss of our dear collegue Dr. Helen Edey. Helen was a passionate advocate for the environment, an indefatigable fighter for women's reproductive rights and a strong voice for human rights and liberties. H
 FISCHEL-Pauline. Beloved wife of Edward. Cherished mother of Robert and Janet. Loving motherin-law of Shelley and of Russ Whitehurst. Devoted sister of Ethel, and sister-in-law of the late Alfred Raphael. Also cherished sister-in-law to Daniel and Maxine and the late Leon and Elaine. Dear g
 FOSCARINIS-Rosa, MD. The Faculty and Staff of New York University School of Medicine deeply mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague, Rosa Foscarinis, MD, Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics. Dr. Foscarinis died in a car accident in Athens, Greece on August 21, 1998. She was 82. Dr.
 FREEMAN-Janice M. Passed away Wednesday, September 16, 1998, after a courageous, dignified battle. One of the early women stockbrokers on Wall Street, who later was Senior Vice President at Manufacturer's Hanover Trust, she was the beloved mother of Douglas S. Freeman II and the cherished s
 HARRINGTON-Sybil. It is with profound sadness we mourn the death of Sybil Harrington, devoted member of our official family since 1967 and a Director of our Managing Board since 1980. One of the most generous Patrons in Metropolitan Opera history, in addition to her leadership gift to creat
 HIRSHBERG - Francine nee Schamroth. On Friday, September 18. Loving and caring wife of Irwin and mother of Karen and Gary Hediger, William, Lesley and Craig Miller, and devoted and loving grandmother of Eric, Carl, Erin, Janine & Dana. Beloved daughter of the late Isidore and Regina Shamrot
 LEVY-Janet Appel. Devoted wife of the late Herman A. Levy. Beloved mother to Robert and Deborah. Loving grandmother to Alexandra and Robin and loving mother-in-law to Suzanne. Janet will always be remembered for her strength, generosity and warmth. She was also a former president of the Eas
 LEWIN-Frances (Frolich). Beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Member of the Hunter College Alumni Hall of Fame along with classmate Bella Abzug. For 20 years she was Commissioner of the Broadway show League giving entertainment each week to 400 members of the Broadway theatre community. Af
 SOFTNESS-Leona Golden. 66, of Manhattan and Coconut Grove, FL, passed away September 18, 1998. Mrs. Softness is survived by her beloved husband John, to whom she was married 44 years; devoted children Barney (Betsy) Softness, Randy (Michele) Softness, Danny (Ellen) Softness; brothers Jerry 
 SPENCE-Elizabeth Barrett. Of Hendersonville, NC, passed away Wednesday, September 16, 1998. She was born in Bloomfield, NJ, the daughter of Josephine Cox Barrett and Randolph Coe Barrett. She was the beloved wife of the late Dr. Harold George Spence. She is survived by and the mother of Ele
 VAN VALKENBURGH-Mildred Arlene. On September 18, 1998. Beloved wife of Pierre. Loving sister of Gladys Shockley and Gertrude Knight and aunt of many. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, September 22, 2-6 PM. Interment private. Contributions in her me
 BURKE-Cathleen. In memory of Cathleen Houlihan Burke, who died on the 20th of September, 1994. She was gallant, brilliant, beautiful and loved.       
 SPANOPOLOU-Eugenia, Ph.D. and Hodtsev, Andrew, Ph.D. A Memorial Service will be held at Mount Sinai School of Medicine to mark the tragic, untimely passing of our esteemed colleagues Eugenia Spanopolou, Ph.D, and her beloved husband Andrew Hodtsev, Ph.D., along with their 16 month old son P
 Muriel Humphrey Brown, who grew from a shy girl from South Dakota into a confident woman during political campaigns for her first husband, Hubert H. Humphrey, and then was named to fill his seat in the Senate at his death in 1978, died today at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis. S
 CONDREN-Anne M., 93. Of Gristmill Lane, Plandome Mills, NY. On September 18, 1998. Wife of the late Edward I. Mother of William J., Professor Edward I., and Carol Carroll. Grandmother of Sloan Castleman, Sean, Ellen Crowley, Hillary, Colin, Elizabeth, Jennifer, and Mathew Carroll. Great-gra
 FRANK-Gertrude Libner. On September 19, 1998. Best friend and beloved wife of David. Devoted daughter of Beatrix Libner. Cherished and loving mother of Vicky Frank, and Betsy and Alan Leinwand. Unforgettable ''Dusty'' to grandchildren Alexander and Alyssa Leinwand. Her strength, courage and
 HARRINGTON-Sybil. It is with profound sadness we mourn the death of Sybil Harrington, devoted member of our official family since 1967 and a Director of our Managing Board since 1980. One of the most generous Patrons in Metropolitan Opera history, in addition to her leadership gift to creat
 JOHNSON-Sallie B. Age 74. A world class bridge champion and instructor at the Regency Whist Club for over 20 years in New York City died peacefully on September 14, 1998 at her home in Lake Placid, NY. She is survived by three daughters, Wendy, Sally B., and Deborah Johnson and by her broth
 VAN VALKENBURGH-Mildred Arlene. On September 18, 1998. Beloved wife of Pierre. Loving sister of Gladys Shockley and Gertrude Knight and aunt of many. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, September 22, 2-6 PM. Interment private. Contributions in her me
 SPANOPOLOU-Eugenia, Ph.D. and Hodtsev, Andrew, Ph.D. A Memorial Service will be held at Mount Sinai School of Medicine to mark the tragic, untimely passing of our esteemed colleagues Eugenia Spanopolou, Ph.D, and her beloved husband Andrew Hodtsev, Ph.D., along with their 16 month old son P
 Florence Griffith Joyner, the three-time gold medalist at the 1988 Summer Olympics who revolutionized women's sprinting with her searing speed and flamboyant fashion sense, died yesterday at her home in Mission Viejo, Calif. She was 38. Greg Foster, a former champion hurdler and a f
 Muriel Humphrey Brown, who grew from a shy girl from South Dakota into a confident woman in the political campaigns for her first husband, Hubert H. Humphrey, and then was named to fill his seat in the Senate at his death in 1978, died on Sunday at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapoli
 CAMP-Alida Donnell Milliken. 89. At home in East Bluehill, Maine on September 19. Wife of the late Frederic E. Camp. Daughter of the late Seth M. Milliken and Alida K. Leese. Mother of Nicholas R. Camp (Carmel, ME), Susan C. Schewe (Lecanto, FL), Donnell McK Camp (South Londonderry, VT), Ca
 DONNELLON-Mary Cornelia. On Monday, September 21, 1998 of New York City. Beloved wife of William McGuire; loving Stepmother of Laurie, Jennifer and Kimberly McGuire; sister of Frances Federici, Kathleen, Samuel R. Jr., Timothy and the late Richard Donnellon (1964); devoted daughter of Samue
 EDEY-Helen Winthrop, M.D. The William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Institute is grieved at the loss of an extraordinary colleague. After graduating in 1962, Dr. Edey distinguished herself in many areas & became a member of the Institute's Board of Trustees in 1969. Her implacable social con
 SHIKLER-Barbara (Pete). On September 21, 1998. A wondrous woman. Survived by her husband of 51 years Aaron, daughter Cathy, son Clifford, son-in-law Armand and granddaughter Isabella. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Thursday 11:30AM. Interment private. In 
 CAMP-Alida Donnell Milliken. 89. At home in East Bluehill, Maine on September 19. Wife of the late Frederic E. Camp. Daughter of the late Seth M. Milliken and Alida K. Leese. Mother of Nicholas R. Camp (Carmel, ME), Susan C. Schewe (Lecanto, FL), Donnell McK Camp (South Londonderry, VT), Ca
 DUNN-Vivienne H. On September 22nd. Phi Beta Kappa, Woodrow Wilson Fellow, Columbia University, Johns Hopkins. Original TimeLife ''Gypsy of Sixth Avenue'' with IBM over 20 years. Joyously retired with her animals to Stone Ridge, NY. Survived by daughters Lynda and Eve, brother Richard, grea
 FELDMAN-Pearl. Age 96. Formerly of Brooklyn, New York, and Santa Monica, California. Died on Sept. 20th, 1998 at Maine Medical Center in Portland, Maine, after suffering a heart attack. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Devoted mother of Dorothy Schwartz (Elliott) of South Freeport, ME., the
 KALIAN-L. Cristina. Beloved wife, cousin and friend. She will be missed by family and many friends. Services Thursday, 12:30PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 MARKS-Ruth. Of Margate, FL, formerly of Yonkers, NY, wife of the late Jack Geiger and Arnold Marks, devoted mother of Joyce Geiger Rosenbaum (Harold). Dear sister of Stanley, Leonard, Gilda and the late Irving Cohen, cherished nana of Jason and Jordana Mendelowitz, Gregory and Monica Drew. 
 PRITZIER-Betten Elisabeth. Of New York on September 16, 1998 of cancer. Survivors include her husband Sverre & two daughters and their husbands, Gye and Alan Brunner of Glastonbury, CT., and Anne and George Schreiber of Redmond, WA., as well as five grandchildren. Betten was a native or Nor
 SHIKLER-Barbara (Pete). On September 21, 1998. A wondrous woman. Survived by her husband of 51 years Aaron, daughter Cathy, son Clifford, son-in-law Armand and granddaughter Isabella. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Thursday 11:30AM. Interment private. In 
 UNGER-Estelle (Goldfinger). Of Amherst, MA, died Sept 20th at the Cooley Dickinson Hospital in Northampton, MA. Born in Brooklyn she lived in Midwood Park and Stockbridge, MA. Husband J. Sam Unger died in 1989. Survived by son Jon Unger, daughter Lisa (Unger) Baskin, son-in-law Leonard Bask
 UNGER-Estelle G. The members of the Brooklyn Museum of Art Community Committee are deeply saddened by the sudden death of Estelle G. Unger, a devoted member and dear friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Celia Quinones, President Community Committee       
 ALTMAN-Helen. On behalf of the Board of Directors and staff of the New York Association for New Americans, Inc., (NYANA) we extend sincere condolences to our esteemed Board Member, Joy Henshel and to her family on the passing of her mother, Helen Altman. Our thoughts and prayers are with yo
 BURGER-Ruth Pazen. Wife of the late Irving Burger. Mother of John and Arthur Burger. Grandmother of Scott, Russel and Katie Burger. Sister of the late Rose Pazen and Anne Gotthardt. Retired from the Research Institute of America where she was Directing Editor of Executive Programs. Former E
 CAMP-Alida Milliken. The Members of the Blue Hill Troupe, Ltd. are profoundly saddened by the loss of Alida Milliken Camp, our Honorary Chairman. Her spirit, indefatigable energy, and love of life and music will be sorely missed by all of us. We send our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Em
 FLUSS - Helene. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Helene Fluss. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. David E. Marrus, Presiden
 LOEPERT FRIEDMAN-Heddy. On Sept. 22, in her 102nd year. Mother of Helga Rosenberger (Hugo), Margit Simon (Peter C.). Grandmother of Lynn Edelstein, Peter C. Simon Jr. Great-grandmother of Mark, Eric, Gary and Julie. Great-great grandmother of five. Funeral services in Charlotte, North Carol
 Francelia Butler, a late-blooming academic of such passionate, unorthodox ways that she has been credited with almost single-handedly transforming the study of children's literature from a stepchild of library science into a recognized academic discipline, died last Friday at a nursing home
 Mary Frann, an actress best known for playing the wife of the comedian Bob Newhart in his second successful CBS series, ''Newhart,'' died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 55. The cause was not officially determined as of yesterday, though Ms. Frann, whom friends repo
 BAUM-Samuel H. Beloved husband of Essie; loving father of Barbara Lerner (and her husband Arthur) and the late Sheila Baum; loving grandfather of Scot and Stefanie Lerner and Stacy Hochfelder (and her husband Peter); great-grandfather of Jake, Harrison and Charles Hochfelder; and brother of
 BOAS-Ruth. Aged 98. On September 23, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Benjamin, loving mother of Muriel & her husband Sol Cantor, and the late Robert and daughterin-law Marjorie Levins; adored grandmother of five; great-grandmother of fifteen. Funeral private. ''She walks in beauty like the n
 BURGER-Ruth Pazen. Wife of the late Irving Burger. Mother of John and Arthur Burger. Grandmother of Scott, Russel and Katie Burger. Sister of the late Rose Pazen and Anne Gotthardt. Retired from the Research Institute of America where she was Directing Editor of Executive Programs. Former E
 LUKACH-Marion Long. Died on Sept. 24th, 1998 at the of age 98. Wife of the late Arthur S. Lukach. Mother of Ellin L. Perlmutter and Arthur S. Lukach Jr. and the late Ann L. Thron. Sister of the late Louis Long Jr. and the late John E. Long. Cherished grandmother of 8 and great grandmother o
 STAPLES-Elizabeth Ann. Age 30, of New York City, formerly of Haymarket, VA and Tequesta, FL, died Thursday, September 24, 1998 at University Medical Center in Stony Brook, NY from injuries sustained in an automobile accident. She was a 1990 graduate of Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY havi
 WATSON-Madeleine Stiles Dickerson (Leine), age 55, very peacefully in the Royal Brompton Hospital in London. Darling wife of Simon C.H. Watson and much loved sister of Helen Dickerson Millar of Hyde Park, NY, Allen E. Whitman of Berwyn, PA, and Johnston de F. Whitman of Laurel Hollow, LI. S
 GANN-Edith, Dr. 1905-1998, psychologist & educator. She was the youngest principal in NJ. She received her doctorate from Columbia University. Dr. Gann was active in the alumni association where she received an award for her devoted service. Her book on Reading Difficulty & Personality Orga
 GLUECK-Rheta. On September 23rd. Daughter of Ella and David. A medical writer, she served overseas with the American Red Cross. Dear cousin to many. Graveside service Sunday, 11AM, at the Ferncliff Cemetery, Hartsdale, New York.       
 GOLDBERG-(Seff) Viola, at 92. Beloved wife of the late Henry Goldberg and the late Manny Seff. Devoted mother of Kate & Gerry Beswick, of London, and Vicki Winteringham. Loving grandmother of Kefi Beswick, affectionate stepmother of Dr. William Ruberman and the late Janet Ruberman. Step-gra
 LUKACH-Marion L. The Board of Directors, clinical and administrative staff and volunteers of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York mourn the loss of Marion L. Lukach, a beloved Director for more than 30 years, life-long volunteer and benefactor of the agency's home care and public health s
 RADL-Dr. Lucia, born in Odessa, Russia in 1900, passed away on September 20, 1998 at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City. A physician and psychiatrist, Dr. Radl was trained in Europe and in the United States. Professionally active for many decades, she was on the staffs of the Joint Diseas
 STEHLIN-Rosalie (nee Breen). Beloved wife of the late Charles V. Stehlin on September 16, 1998. Devoted mother of Elizabeth. Loving grandmother of Bronwen, Lee & Merrick. Cherished great-grandmother of Ethan. Survived by her dearest sister, Pat, and dear ''Auntie Lee'' to her many devoted n
 CAMP-Alida Donnell Milliken, 89. At home in East Bluehill, Maine on September 19. Wife of the late Frederic E. Camp. Daughter of the late Seth M. Milliken and Alida K. Leese. Mother of Nicholas R. Camp (Carmel, ME.), Susan C. Schewe (Lecanto, FL.), Donnell McK Camp (South Londonderry, VT), 
 CLARK-Dane. Geraldine Clark announces a special Memorial Service & Reception for her cherished and loved husband, Dane Clark Sunday, October 4 at 3:00PM at the Self Realization Fellowship at Lake Shrine, 17080 Sunset Blvd, Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles. Dane Clarke passed away on September
 GARSON-Inez. Artist, art historian, died in Seattle, September 17. 83. Beloved mother, grandmother, great-grandmother. Born in New York City, she is survived by her three children, Rachel Garson of Seattle, Adam Perl of Ithaca, NY, Joshua Perl of New York City; five grandchildren and one gr
 GIRER-Rae. 93. On September 23, 1998. Beloved wife of Sol. Devoted mother to Sheila, Mel, Barbara & Larry Krevans, David & Judy. Cherished grandmother to Jodi, Mara & Donald, Scott & Deena, Glenn & Bonnie, Robin & Jason & Lisa. Loving great-grandmother to Jason, Erica, Juliana & Sam. Sister
 GOLDBERG-(Seff) Viola, at 92. Beloved wife of the late Henry Goldberg and the late Manny Seff. Devoted mother of Kate & Gerry Beswick, of London, and Vicki Winteringham. Loving grandmother of Kefi Beswick, affectionate stepmother of Dr. William Ruberman and the late Janet Ruberman. Step-gra
 LUKACH-Marion L. The Board of Directors, clinical and administrative staff and volunteers of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York mourn the loss of Marion L. Lukach, a beloved Director for more than 30 years, life-long volunteer and benefactor of the agency's home care and public health s
 OHTA-Yoshi (Tiny). Of NYC and Tokyo passed away on September 13, 1998. The devoted wife of the late Teruo Ohta. An inspirational mother to Yasuteru and Akiko Ohta and Mme. Hiroko Yukawa and exceptional mother-in-law to Chie Ohta. Also loving grandmother of Motoyasu and Motoyoshi Yukawa and 
 ROTH-Ardith Fuller. On September 20 in Jacksonville, FL. She was preceded in death by husband Emil J. Roth of NYC, parents Phyllis Warner Pollitz of NYC, Arthur Dodd Fuller of Pacific Palisades, CA and Jane Fuller Stern of NYC. She is survived by brother Clinton W. Fuller and nephew Clinton
 STEINER-Arlyne L. On September 25th, 1998. Beloved wife of Leonard Steiner. Loving mother of Robin & Kathy Steiner, Ellyn and Michael Greenspan, Beth & Timothy Sinatro. Exceptional ''Grammy'' of Erin, Sammy, Darren, Allie, Lulu and Alec. Services are at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenu
 Betty Carter, one of jazz's great singers and a composer and arranger whose groups were virtual schools for generations of jazz musicians, died at home in the Fort Greene section of Brooklyn on Saturday. She was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her friend Ora Harris.       
 They were the Thelma and Louise of Nazi Poland, and if Hollywood hasn't tumbled to their story, it may be because Blanca Rosenberg and Maria Rosenbloom had too many hair-raising escapes, too many improbable rescues -- and far too much unremitting horror in between -- for a single script to 
 Carol Kay, a professor of 18th-century literature and culture at the University of Pittsburgh, died on Sept. 12 at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh. She was 51. The cause was aplastic anemia, said her husband, Jonathan Arac. Ms. Kay wrote ''Political Constructions'' (Cornel
 DUBITZKY-Simcha (Motro). Of Miami Beach, FL. Widow of Aaron Dubitzky. Died September 25, 1998. She was born in Israel and had lived most of her life in the United States. She leaves a son, Theodore Dubitzky and his wife Deborah in Israel; two daughters, Ann Cope and her husband Bernard of W
 GOLDBERG-(Seff) Viola, at 92. Beloved wife of the late Henry Goldberg and the late Manny Seff. Devoted mother of Kate & Gerry Beswick, of London, and Vicki Winteringham. Loving grandmother of Kefi Beswick, affectionate stepmother of Dr. William Ruberman and the late Janet Ruberman. Step-gra
 GOLDFARB-Mary Jane Regan, 52. On September 25, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Jack. Cherished daughter of Wilma Regan. Loving mother of Carolyn Goldfarb and Candice Goldfarb Posner. Beloved sister of Jacqueline McSwiggan. Her family will miss her strength, warmth and keen sense of humor. A 
 LUKACH-Marion L. The Board of Directors, clinical and administrative staff and volunteers of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York mourn the loss of Marion L. Lukach, a beloved Director for more than 30 years, life-long volunteer and benefactor of the agency's home care and public health s
 STEINER-Arlyne L. On September 25th, 1998. Beloved wife of Leonard Steiner. Loving mother of Robin & Kathy Steiner, Ellyn and Michael Greenspan, Beth & Timothy Sinatro. Exceptional ''Grammy'' of Erin, Sammy, Darren, Allie, Lulu and Alec. Services are at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenu
 STRAEB-Marina. On September 26, 1998. Beloved daughter of the late William Straeb and Marie Panarello. Mass of Christian Burial 11 AM, Tuesday, at St. Vincent Ferrer Church. In lieu of flowers donations can be made in her memory to the Cancer Care Program, the Cabrini Hospice Program and th
 Dr. Helen Winthrop Edey, a philanthropist and psychiatrist who was active in the field of women's reproductive health and rights, died on Sept. 15 at the Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts. She was 86 and lived on Martha's Vineyard and in Manhattan. Dr. Edey was the former 
 BROWN-Dorothy. The Young Israel of Scarsdale regretfully records the passing of its longtime member, Dorothy Brown, and extends heartfelt condolences to her husband, Edward, and the entire family. Jacob Rubenstein, Rabbi Joshua Klapper, President       
 LUKACH-Marion L. The Board of Directors, clinical and administrative staff and volunteers of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York mourn the loss of Marion L. Lukach, a beloved Director for more than 30 years, life-long volunteer and benefactor of the agency's home care and public health s
 RHINELANDER - Phyllis M. Daughter of the late Philip Kip Rhinelander & Helen G. Rhinelander passed away at her home on Sunday, Sept. 27 after a long illness. Involved in several charities, she was a member of the Colonial Dames Of America, Society Of Daughters Of The Cincinatti, and Daughte
 STEINER-Arlyne L. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved wife of Leonard Steiner and the adored mother of Robin (Kathy) Steiner, Ellyn (Michael) Greenspan, and Beth (Timothy) Sinatro. With her husband and with Robin 
 Fiamma di San Giuliano Ferragamo, a designer who helped develop one of the most famous shoe labels in fashion, died on Monday at her home in Florence. She was 57. She died of cancer, said Ferrucio Ferragamo, her brother and chief executive officer of Salvatore Ferragamo Italia. For 
 BOSTWICK-G.H. ''Dolly'', 77. Of 525 Laurens Street, Aiken, SC, entered into rest, Sunday, September 27, 1998, at her residence. Loving mother of Dolly Bostwick, Aiken, SC, Sissy Armstrong, Indian Town, FL, Charles S. Bostwick, Aiken, SC and Richard S. Bostwick, Aiken, S.C. Other survivors i
 McNAMEE-Elizabeth T. The entire NYU Law School Community mourns the sudden loss of a magnificent third year student and emerging young lawyer, Elizabeth. Our hearts and prayers go out to her family. Dean John Sexton NYU School of Law       
 MURPHY-Joan (nee Drutman). On September 29, 1998. Beloved wife of Bob, devoted mother of Rachel Judith, dear sister of Amy Drutman, loving daughter of Mae & Jack Drutman. Good and loyal friend to many. Long time devotee of Camp Roosevelt. Services Thursday, 10:30 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 
 NICHOLL-Ashley Ann (Nickii). Of NYC & Southampton, Long Island, formerly of Montclair, N.J., on Sept. 25th, 1998. Survived by her loving mother, Dale of NYC and Southampton, L.I.; brother Maynard C. III of NYC; grandmother Helen G. Kulik of NYC; father Maynard C. Jr. of Maryland; half broth
 SCHWARZBAUM-Renee. On September 28, 1998. Of Guttenberg, N.J. Beloved wife of Zvi. Devoted mother, grandmother and dearest friend to many. Services Thursday, 10AM at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 West Route 4, Paramus, New Jersey.SCHWARZBAUM - Renee. The Partners and the staff of the 
 SIMONS-Betsy of Franklin Lakes, NJ, passed away peacefully on Sept. 28, 1998 at NYU Medical Center, after a courageous & dignified fight with cancer. Beloved wife of Jeffrey and a devoted and loving mother of Andrew and Jennifer. Mrs. Simons graduated Magna Cum Laude from William Paterson U
 STEINER-Arlyne. A beautiful, brave, noble woman passed our way. We are all richer for her being. Gloria, Sidney and Family       
 RAINES-Barbara. In loving memory of my sister, Barbara on her 90th birthday. Mimi       
 Phyllis M. Rhinelander, a lineal descendant of two early mayors of New York City and of the Kip family, who gave their name to the Kips Bay region, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 77. A cousin, Adelaide Rhinelander Donaldson, said that death was the result of complicat
 Toni House, an author and a longtime Washington journalist who spent the last 16 years as the Supreme Court's public information officer, died here today of lung cancer, the Court announced. She was 55. A former president of the Washington Press Club and officer of other press organ
