 ABRAMSON--Sylvia. The officers, Board of Directors, & staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Sylvia Abramson, beloved mother of Carole Solomon, a cherished leader of our global Jewish community. Carole's dedication and commitment as a member of our Board of Directors and a
 AVLON--Phyllis Stellings. November 30, 2004. Beloved mother of Alexa and Leon Stellings, grandmother of Niki and Pamela. All who met her were graced by her beauty and generosity. This sweet soul bestowed love and happiness wherever she went. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madis
 HOCHBERG--Rita. On November 28, 2004. After a long illness surrounded by her family. Adored wife of Irwin, beloved mother of Mitchell, Richard & Jonathan. Loving mother-in-law of Suzan and Stacy, Cherished Bubbe of Isabelle, Julia, Jordan, Ethan and Sabrina, loving sister-in-law of Sybil Ba
 JONES--Hilary. It is with deepest sympathy that the faculty, staff, students and alumni of Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health offer condolences to a most treasured faculty member, Judith Jones, and her husband, Madison, on the passing of their beloved daughter, Hilary. Hilary was a 
 LAOR--Klara R., MD. passed away peacefully on November 30. She was predeceased by devoted husbands Israel Laor (1987) and Leonid Rosenburt (1946), and tragically, by her beloved son Eliahu Laor, MD (2001). She is survived by her beloved son Eytan (Holly) of Miami, FL, daughter Ilana (Evan) 
 PATINKIN--Marsha. On behalf of the board of trustees, volunteers, and employees of the Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, we offer our heartfelt condolences to the family of Marsha Patinkin, a treasured member of CCFA's national board and President of our Greater San Diego and Desert 
 SCHWARTZ--Sophie. Age 90, of Forest Hills, New York, died peacefully November 30, 2004. Beloved wife of Sidney, loving mother of Susan, Daniel, daughter-in-law Adriane, adored grandmother of Michael & Jake. During WWII, Sophie worked for the Office of War Information and then went on to ser
 SHAW--Grace of Scarsdale passed away on November 23 of complications of breast cancer. Grace was predeceased by her husband Herbert F. Shaw. She is survived by her son Brandon H. Shaw of Tampa, Florida. Grace worked for several decades as a book publishing editor in New York City at publish
 STERN--Laura, of Aventura, Florida, on November 29. Beloved wife of the late Jerry Stern. Cherished mother and mother-in-law of the late Sandy and Marcia Stern. Adored grandmother of Lisa, Adam and Geoffrey Stern. Fun-loving sister of Red and Morris Remin, and the late Jack, Dave and Irving
 STEVENSON -- Lauralee Trent. Died after a short illness on Friday, November 26. She was a 32-year resident of New York City, after traveling the world as the wife of an Air Force Officer, Maj. Gen. John D. Stevenson, deceased. Born in Lynchburg, VA, she was a graduate of Gunston Hall in Was
 WEISS--Ethel nee Regosin. Of Brooklyn, NY. Passed November 30, 2004 at age 90. Beloved wife of the late Jimmie. Beloved mother of Mark and Jane, Michael and Ella. Cherished grandmother of Cara and Michael, Andrea and Brian, Lisa, Janna and Rick, Ethan and Maria. Great grandmother of Elijah,
 Miriam Schlein, whose nearly one hundred books, written over half a century, taught very young children about animals and concepts like time and space, died on Nov. 23 in New York. She was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was vasculitis, an inflammation of the blood vessels, her
 ABRAMSON--Sylvia. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Carole Solomon, Chairperson of the Jewish Agency Board of Governors, on the passing of her mother, Sylvia Abramson. May you be comforted together with the mourners of Zion. The World Zionist Organization The Jewish Agency for Israel  
 ACCIANI--Marie T., on November 30, 2004, at age 80. Beloved wife of the late Daniel Acciani. Loving mother of Michael and Robert Acciani and Judith Hagan. Cherished grandmother of Alexis, Justine, Marissa and Daniel Acciani and Harrison Hagan. Devoted sister of the late Frank Attardi and Ve
 AVLON--Phyllis Stellings. November 30, 2004. Beloved mother of Alexa and Leon Stellings, grandmother of Niki and Pamela. All who met her were graced by her beauty and generosity. This sweet soul bestowed love and happiness wherever she went. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madis
 COOTES--Jean (nee Phillips). Hostess extraordinaire and wife of a senior American diplomat, died in her Princeton home, November 24, 2004. Friend to musicians, artists and scholars, she was the widow of longtime American consul in Florence, Merritt N. Cootes. She is survived by her sister, 
 EINGOREN--Ruth. All her friends at Standard Motor Products mourn the loss of our beloved Ruthie.       
 FLUEGELMAN--Helen (nee Levy). Of Scarsdale, N.Y., on November 30, 2004. Wife of the late Milton Fluegelman. Mother of the late William Fluegelman. Survived by her daughter and son-in-law, Joan and Jerry Wexler; her niece and husband, Jeri and Bertram Josephson; grandchildren Laurie Stolowit
 LOEWENHEIM--Alice Krass. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of Alice Krass Loewenheim, daughter of our late Senior Rabbi Emeritus, Dr. Nathan Krass, and his wife, Eda. For 90 years, Alice had been a cherished member of our Congregation. We will always remember
 MILLER--Marion C. On November 29. Longtime Brooklyn Heights activist, proud progressive Democrat and veteran, cherished wife and partner of late husband Benjamin, wonderful ''mommy,'' English teacher and breakfast partner to daughter-inlaw Marta, and best friend and confidante to son Andrew
 MONROE--Laura. The American Civil Liberties Union mourns the passing of an esteemed colleague, Laura Monroe. Laura had a long career working for the ACLU and later, Greater Boston Legal Services, bringing her passion for civil liberties and economic justice to her clients, the ACLU and the 
 OTANI--Isako. Our wonderful mother, grandmother, great grandmother, and friend, passed away on November 29, 2004 at the age of 98. Born Isako Makino on November 10, 1906 in Iida, Japan, wife of the late Sadao Otani, M.D., and mother of Michiko Weller (late David), Hiroko Kiiffner (Calvin), 
 SCICCHITANO -- Rae. The Berkeley Carroll School community mourns the loss of a valiant woman. With joyful exuberance, she was part of the life of our school for more than 20 years as loving wife of our honorary alumnus Anthony, dear mother of former trustees Rita Sacchi and Phyllis Serino, 
 Dame Alicia Markova, one of the greatest British ballerinas of the 20th century, co-founder of the company now known as the English National Ballet and a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, died yesterday in Bath, England, the English National Ballet announced. She was 94.    
 BARON--Joan. On December 1, 2004. Beloved wife of Leonard, loving mother of Marcia Hershey and her husband, Roger, and Lisa Baron Schenker and her husband, Gregg, adoring grandmother of William, Nicholas, Emma and Olivia, dear sister of Muriel Palitz and sister-in-law of Phyllis Luxemburg. 
 FLUEGELMAN--Helen. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Life Member and extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Richard Katcher, President Neda Birbrower, Secretary       
 KAUFMAN -- Edith. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Edith Kaufman. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, President       
 LICHTENSTEIN--Lillian (nee Leibowitz), on December 2, 2004. Wife of the late Lester G. Lichtenstein. Mother of Lynne Tarnopol and Sande Boas. Sister of Martha Maimon. Grandmother of Lori, Lisa, Amy, Robert and the late Margie. Great-grandmother of Nicholas, Jami, Spencer, Paige, Owen, Lucy 
 McLOUGHLIN--Lucille Fusz (nee O'Malley). At home in Cohasset, MA on December 1st, age 96. Widow of Maurice E., partner in White & Case. Mother of Lucille Hornby of New Jersey, Elizabeth of San Francisco, Maurice E. Jr., of London, Paul of New York and the late Martha. Grosla will be missed 
 SHIFFMAN--Irene. In her 88th year. A good wife, a grand mother, a good life. Married to Harry for 64 years. Daughters Nancy and Carol and grandson Daniel. Services will be held Sunday, December 5 at 12PM at Riverside Nassau North Chapels, Great Neck, NY. SHIFFMAN--Irene. The Jewish 
 TATRO - PRADT -- Bronwen Celia. 6, died November 29, 2004. Bronwen was a beautiful and loving girl who is mourned by her family, Katherine, Marie, Maggie, and Ryan, as well as her many, many friends and devoted caregivers. Beloved sister of Ryan, granddaughter of Albert and Frances Tatro, n
 WOLFF--Ruth (Kahn) nee Blumberg. Beloved wife of the late Milton Kahn and Milton Wolff. Loving mother of Burton Kahn and the late Jane Wynn. Cherished grandmother of David and Richard Kahn, Alan Wynn and Carol Haber and great grandmother. Services at Temple Sinai, 131 Washington Ave., Lawre
 Maude Lloyd, a dramatically expressive ballerina who became an articulate dance critic, writing in collaboration with her husband, Nigel Gosling, died on Nov. 26 at her home in London. She was 96. She died after a brief hospitalization, said John Percival, a British freelance dance 
 Mona Van Duyn, a poet laureate and Pulitzer Prize winner who spoke with a distinctly female voice from suburbia, died on Thursday at her home in suburban St. Louis. She was 83. Her death was announced by Alfred A. Knopf, which published her ''Selected Poems'' two years ago. Her firs
 BARON--Joan. On December 1, 2004. Beloved wife of Leonard, loving mother of Marcia Hershey and her husband, Roger, and Lisa Baron Schenker and her husband, Gregg, adoring grandmother of William, Nicholas, Emma and Olivia, dear sister of Muriel Palitz and sister-in-law of Phyllis Luxemburg. 
 GILLESPIE--Jean (nee Hollis), died December 1, 2004 at Phelps Memorial Hospital, following a brief illness. She was 78. Born April 12, 1926 in Brooklyn, the daughter of Stanley and Margaret Hollis. She was a graduate of Ridgewood (NJ) High School and Smith College. Jean was formerly employe
 MARKOVA--Alicia. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Dame Alicia Markova, one of the outstanding ballerinas of the twentieth century and director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet from 1963 to 1969. The company was privileged to witness her remarkable artistry, not only in her many pe
 Frances Chaney, a radio star whose budding film career was stifled after she and her husband, Ring Lardner Jr., were placed on a Hollywood blacklist, died on Nov. 23 at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. Ms. Chaney, who had Alzheimer's disease, died in her sleep, said her son James.
 ARNSTEIN--Ethel. Age 100. Widow of Morty Arnstein, intimate sister-in-law of Gertrude Bonime, loving and loved aunt of Naomi and Allen Broadwin, Judith and Carl Felsenfeld, and Betty and Stanley Greenfield, greataunt and great-great-aunt, a significant presence wherever she dwelt and extrao
 COWAN -- Muriel Josephs. Died November 30th at age 92. Lifelong resident of Duluth, MN. Had a passion for family, friends, theater and travel. We will all miss her-especially her brother Arthur and me--her devoted niece. Joyce Josephs Berger Cowin       
 FINE--Lillian Chafetz. 90, of Key Biscayne, FL, and New York, died with courage and dignity on December 2nd, 2004. Wife of the late Dr. Benjamin Fine, former Education Editor of The New York Times. Lillian taught English at Oceanside and Long Beach High Schools on Long Island for more than 
 FRANCO--Alice. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 GOULD--Ernestine (Eisenstein). Passed away December 4, 2004, after a long illness. A Holocaust survivor, her beauty, courage, spirit and zest for life touched all and made her an inspiration to everyone she met. She will be dearly missed by all her many friends and by her adoring stepchildr
 HOCHBERG--Rita. The Zionist Organization of America mourns the passing of the beloved wife of Irwin Hochberg, an esteemed member of ZOA's Board of Directors. She was a passionate activist for Israel and the Jewish people who inspired all of us. She will be sorely missed. Morton A. Klein, Na
 HOFFMAN--Joan Y. Peacefully on November 26, 2004 in her home in Chestnut Ridge, NY. Loving mother of Nancy Stammelman and Robert Hoffman and their spouses Joseph and Donna. Adoring grandmother of Sally Mandelbaum, Jonathan Stammelman and Bill Stammelman and their spouses Sam, Valerie and Sa
 KESSEL--Shirley. Widow of ''Life'' magazine master photographer Dmitri Kessel, died November 28, after suffering a massive stroke. She was 77. Her brother Dr. Donald Farmer of Sebastopol, CA, survives her. All her friends are invited to a ''Remembering Shirley'' gathering at The Goat Alley 
 LUCAS--Dr. Mary, 61, passed away peacefully on December 2, 2004 with her family and close friends at her bedside. She was born in Ridgewood, NJ on August 23rd, 1943 but was a long time resident of Manhattan. Mary is survived by her husband of 38 years Charles, daughter Selena, brother David
 MAGRONE--Connie. On December 3, 2004. Died gracefully surrounded by her loving family, after a courageous battle with cancer. Her family and friends will love her forever.       
 MOTTLEY--Pam Guinan. 63, died after a long illness on November 30, surrounded by beloved animals and family. She was a teacher of English and most recently a Gestalt psychotherapist. She is survived by daughter Mariah, son-in-law Sean Plumlee, Pat, Ken and Christopher Rushin and Robert Mott
 REEVES--Jean. She never stopped learning and loving. She gave more than she received. She is survived by her daughter Sharon Walker of Bluffton, South Carolina, two sons William of Dayton, Ohio, and Michael of New York City, a sister Carmen Jackson of Summerfield, Florida, three grandchildr
 SALZ--Naomi. Passed away peacefully December 3 at age 101. Beloved wife of the late Wallace. Loving mother of Judy and Leonard Goldman. Adored grandmother of Susan, David and Robin. Cherished great-grandmother of Jared, Jesse, Jamie, Michael, Taylor, Marc, Corey, Jake and Luke. We will miss
 SMITH--Sylvia. At home in Riverdale, NY, on December 3. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Smith. Sylvia will be missed by Emily Shepard, Bernard Troy and Jeanette Schwartz and her entire loving family. She lived a very long life surrounded by friends and neighbors and will never be forgotten.
 TREWHELLA--Claire C., 76. Of Amagansett and Manhattan died November 28. Known for her integrity and commitment to excellence, Mrs. Trewhella was a principle of Trewhella/Cohen/Arbuckle Inc, the first data processing company owned and led by women. Mrs. Trewhella was born March 19, 1928 to F
 WEINSTOCK -- Jane (nee Kaufman). Died November 30, 2004, in La Jolla, CA. Beloved wife of Louis for 62 years. Loving sister of Richard J. Kaufman and cherished aunt to all her nieces and nephews. A beautiful, caring person, she will be missed by all who knew her throughout her long life.   
 BROD--Evelyn, on December 4, 2004, at 85 years of age. Devoted wife of Herbert. Loving mother of Mitchell Manber. Cherished grandmother of Simeon (Helen) and Gurion and great-grandmother of dearly loved Hannah. Graveside services Monday, 1 pm, at Maimonides Elmont Cemetery, Elmont, NY.     
 FINE--Lillian Chafetz. 90, of Key Biscayne, FL, and New York, died with courage and dignity on December 2nd, 2004. Wife of the late Dr. Benjamin Fine, former Education Editor of The New York Times. Lillian taught English at Oceanside and Long Beach High Schools on Long Island for more than 
 GOULD--Ernestine (Eisenstein). Passed away December 4, 2004, after a long illness. A Holocaust survivor, her beauty, courage, spirit and zest for life touched all and made her an inspiration to everyone she met. She will be dearly missed by all her many friends and by her adoring stepchildr
 MAGRONE -- Connie. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 SIMMONS--Marjorie. Of Florida and Mamaroneck, NY. Died December 5, 2004, at the age of 90. She leaves her daughters Nancy Stieger (Norman) and Marion Benedek (Charles Rubenstein), and her step-daughters Lynn and Wendy, and her grandchildren Deborah Schnur (Daniel), Elizabeth Newman (Steven)
 BERNSTEIN -- Carmel. Bar nard College Class of 1953. Was an active member of The Barnard College Club of New York for over 20 years; she served as President, on its Board of Directors and its Nominating Committee. She also contributed to the Club as the leader of an outstanding book and fil
 BLACK--Bea. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and wife of the fabulous oncologist, Dr. Maurice Black. Our condolences to the children Andy and Liz, and sister Phyllis, and their families. Jessie and Arnie Glasser Fran Kudler BLACK--Beatrice of Hewlett Harbor, New York. Beloved wi
 BRADY--Margaret Stafford, a.k.a. Greta, died December 4 after a long illness. Born in Brooklyn, New York, May 5, 1916 to William and Margaret Stafford. She was the wife for 38 years of Philip H. Brady. She is survived by her children, Philip, Mari and William; grandchildren, Philip, Amanda 
 HARMAN--Selma C. On December 6th, 2004 at the age of 90, died with courage and dignity. Beloved wife of the late Abbot. Dearly loved and mourned by her daughter Leslie, her husband David Lurie, Steven Simon, son Sandy and daughter-in-law Mady. She loved her grandchildren who were the light 
 KING--Gioconda. A resident of Palm Beach and New York, died on Monday, November 29, 2004, at her home in Palm Beach. She was 85. Born on March 11, 1919, in Costa Rica, she was the daughter of Mr. & Mrs. Antonio Castro and the widow of Joseph King, a pioneer in investment banking. He was the
 LARKIN--Rochelle (nee Richter). Adored, devoted mother of Julie (Davis), Kim and Ted. Sister of Joan Hochberg. Grandmother, aunt, friend, author. Taken from us too soon. Services today, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. LARKIN -- Rochelle. The North American Con
 LICHTENSTEIN--Lillian L. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJAFederation of New York mourn the passing of Lillian L. Lichtenstein, beloved mother of Lynne Tarnopol; and mother-in-law of Mickey Tarnopol, cherished leaders of the New York Jewish community whose dedication makes a
 MERCADIER--Huguette. Age 89. Of New York City. Died November 30, 2004. Daughter of Colonel Maurice and Suzanne Le Duc Mercadier. She was born in Nice, France June 29, 1915. She was educated at Miss Todd Hunter's classes NYC and graduated from Le College D'Hulst Paris. She came to New York i
 MILLARD--Eda. We mourn with profound sorrow the passing of beloved Eda Millard, a beautiful, caring person who will be missed by all who knew her. We extend our deepest condolences to Walter and the entire family. Rosita and Herbert Warshavsky and Family       
 MILLER--Murray C. on November 29, 2004 of Blue Point in her 80th year. Wife of John P. (Hobby) Miller. Beloved mother of Paula Murphy, John P., Jr., (Kathryn), Thomas (Jody), Megan Goldsmith (Stephen), Gervaise Baker, Quentin Helke, Peter, and Andrew (Christine). Predeceased by her daughter
 PARISI--Barbara. We mourn the loss of our Board Member and friend, who inspired us with her valiant fight to beat lung cnacer--both the disease and the stigma that haunts the diagnosis. She was tireless in her campaign, bringing intelligence, hope and a tenacious can-do spirit to increasing
 ROCKOFF--Frances Schletter, 93, of Passaic, NJ. Passed away peacefully December 5. Beloved wife of the late Meyer. Loving mother to Doris and Elaine. Cherished grandmother of seven grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. If you could dream up a grandmother, multiply it by a million, that
 SCHLESSEL--Rosetta (Van Gelder) at age 87. Predeceased by her husband Raymond B. Mother of Robert and Judy Goldwyn (Ronald). Grandmother of Ira and Laura. Great-grandmother of Michael and Brian. Sister of Jack Van Gelder (Ray). Her extraordinary strength, dignity and intelligence were admir
 SIMMONS--Marjorie. Of Florida and Mamaroneck, NY. Died December 5, 2004, at the age of 90. She leaves her daughters Nancy Stieger (Norman) and Marion Benedek (Charles Rubenstein), and her step-daughters Lynn and Wendy, and her grandchildren Deborah Schnur (Daniel), Elizabeth Newman (Steven)
 SIMMONS--Nancy, 71, died Friday, December 3rd, in NYC. Everyone in the theatre community extends heartfelt sympathy to her family and shares in their loss. An associate of Joseph Harris for more than 45 years, she assisted in managing countless Broadway productions. Burial will be in her ho
 WAMSLER -- Honore. The members and staff of The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of our longtime friend and supporter, Honore Wamsler. Our sympathies go especially to her husband, Karl, and the entire family. Sir Brian Urquhart, Chairman Emeritu
 BRADY--Margaret Stafford, a.k.a. Greta, died December 4 after a long illness. Born in Brooklyn, New York, May 5, 1916 to William and Margaret Stafford. She was the wife for 38 years of Philip H. Brady. She is survived by her children, Philip, Mari and William; grandchildren, Philip, Amanda 
 HARMAN--Selma C. On December 6th, 2004 at the age of 90, died with courage and dignity. Beloved wife of the late Abbot. Dearly loved and mourned by her daughter Leslie, her husband David Lurie, Steven Simon, son Sandy and daughter-in-law Mady. She loved her grandchildren who were the light 
 KING--Gioconda. Dr. Michael P. Osborne, President of Strang Cancer Prevention Center, the Board of Trustees and Staff mourn the passing of their beloved trustee, Gioconda King, who served on the Board since 1986. During her many years of service to Strang, Mrs. King was CoChairwoman of the 
 LITTLE--Irene Constance, 89, of Chapel Hill, NC died Monday, December 6, at Wynwood Alterra in Chapel Hill. She was predeceased by her husband, James K. Little, her father, George Chapellier and her mother, Odile Chapellier. Irene was a well known art dealer and was the Director of Chapelli
 SAVID-KAYFETZ--Edith, 85, of Clearwater, Florida. Died December 6, 2004. Born 1919 in Brooklyn, she was a retired Art Director from NYC. Survived by her children Carol Savid, Taos, NM, Richard Savid, Clearwater, FL; brother Irwin Palmer, Melville, NY; grandchildren Linawa SavidHedges, Bufor
 STRAUSS -- Alice Hanauer, passed away on Monday, December 6, 2004 at Brandy Station, VA. She was born March 15, 1903 in New York City, the daughter of Jerome J. and Carrie H. Hanauer and was the wife of the late Rear Admiral Lewis L. Strauss. Mrs. Strauss grew up in New York City and attend
 WHEELER--Betty (nee Krass). Peacefully on December 2, 2004 at the age of 98. Predeceased by her beloved husband Maurice Wheeler. Survived by sister Anne Gould. Predeceased by siblings Mike Krasilovsky, Laura Krevat, James Krass, Elsie Rosenthal and Monroe Krasilovsky. Aunt, great-aunt and g
 FREEMAN--Betsy, 53, of New York, December 8, after a courageous battle with leukemia. Beloved wife of Robert Garafola. She is survived by her parents, Dody and John Freeman of Rye, her brother David and his wife Ellen of Larchmont and her brother William and his wife Beth of Hillsborough, C
 GULDEN--Louise G. Passed away at her home in Bay Shore, NY on December 7, 2004. Devoted daughter of the late Rafael Guastavino and Elsie S. Mann. Beloved wife of the late Frank Gulden Jr. Loving mother of Frank Gulden III of Vero Beach, FL and Point O'Woods, NY, Barbara Black of Bethesda, M
 HUNTER--Bertina Carter, in Newport News, VA at Age 92. Former activist of the arts, passed peacefully and quietly on November 23, 2004, at the Governors Inn Retirement Home where she had resided for the past 3 years. Ms. Hunter was acclaimed as the first female and first black to become Com
 JACOBSON -- Mildred Edel stein, died Sunday at Sherman Oaks Hospital. She was 86. She is survived by two sons and five grandchildren. ''What's the difference?''       
 LAKOS--Marcille Harris. On December 5, 2004 after a brief illness. She was 86. Mrs. Lakos was a clinical pyschologist beloved by the many people with whom she worked during a distinguished career that spanned over 50 years. After receiving her MS from The University of Oregon in 1949, she d
 LORD--Martha Elizabeth (Lisi) on December 4, 2004 after a long illness. Devoted mother of Emily & Christina Barrett, beloved daughter of Herbert and Martha Lord of Greenwich, Connecticut. Dear sister of John and Kenneth Lord and the late Herbert, Jr. Cherished by her friends, particularily 
 WHEELER--Betty (nee Krass). Peacefully on December 2, 2004 at the age of 98. Predeceased by her beloved husband Maurice Wheeler. Survived by sister Anne Gould. Predeceased by siblings Mike Krasilovsky, Laura Krevat, James Krass, Elsie Rosenthal and Monroe Krasilovsky. Aunt, great-aunt and g
 BEHREND--Rose Susan. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of Rose Susan Behrend, adored mother of longstanding Board member Catherine Behrend. Our hearts and prayers are with her and her family. As her life was a blessing so may her memory be as well. Michael Goldstein, Presi
 FREEMAN--Betsy, 53, of New York, December 8, after a courageous battle with leukemia. Beloved wife of Robert Garafola. She is survived by her parents, Dody and John Freeman of Rye, her brother David and his wife Ellen of Larchmont and her brother William and his wife Beth of Hillsborough, C
 KAHN--Lotte. My heart is so sad. On December 8 my adored mother passed away, gently, elegantly, peacefully. She was the cherished wife of the late Alfred; proud mother of the late Stephen, and mother - in - law of Peter Strauss whom she adored. The memory of her radiance, wisdom, and optimi
 MAHER--Marie Genevieve, 89, of Kings Park, New York in her own home. She was the last surviving member of her immediate family. She was the daughter of Edward Maher and Catherine Farrell. The family, including her beloved late brother Edward and sister Catherine Wisneski lived in NYC most o
 OSTOW--Barbara G. on December 9, 2004. Born in NYC to Jacob & Rachel (Spitzer) Goldman. A travel agent, she is the wife of Stanley J. Ostow. Mother of Lawrence, Michael (wife Allison) & Elizabeth Ostow. Grandmother of David & Matthew Ostow. Sister of Dr. Kenneth Goldman (wife Dr. Barbara Ed
 RUBIN--Sylvia. December 8, 2004. Beloved wife of Marvin K. Devoted mother of Stella Rubin. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. There will be a gathering of remembrance at the family residence Sunday, December 12th, 11AM.       
 SCHWARTZ--Jennifer Noel (nee Dahlmann). On December 4, 2004. She is survived by her husband Jonathan, children Max and Sydney; parents Suzie and Dennis Dahlmann; sister and brother-in-law Kim and Jonas Amberger and her entire Schwartz family. A life and love complete.       
 Mary Bertina Carter Hunter, an arts patron and collector who served on New York City's advisory Art Commission under Mayor Abraham D. Beame, died on Nov. 23 in Newport News, Va. A former resident of Greenwich Village, she was 92. Her death was announced by the Studio Museum in Harle
 JEWISON -- Margaret Ann (Dixie). Longtime wife of Canadian born film director Norman Jewison, died peacefully Friday November 26, 2004 at the Headwaters Health Care Centre in Orangeville, Ontario, a day after her 74th birthday. Loving mother of Kevin Jewison, Michael & Anita Jewison, and Je
 RUBIN--Sylvia. December 8, 2004. Beloved wife of Marvin K. Devoted mother of Stella Rubin. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. There will be a gathering of remembrance at the family residence Sunday, December 12th, 11AM.       
 VOGEL--Shirley. December 10, 2004. Adored wife of the late David. Beloved mother of Victoria and her husband Berthold Bilski. Cherished Gramma of Michael Lippert, Robin Lippert, her husband Richard Sutton and Gillian Lippert. Loving Great Gramma of Eliza Kate Dirigo Sutton. Friends may call
 ELMO--Barbara Gibbs. Died December 11, 2004. She was the daughter of the late Colonel Edward Gibbs, M.D., and Anna Sandberg Gibbs. Barbara was President of South Bay Design Co. on 3rd Avenue. Surviving are her husband John S. Elmo of Yonkers, NY, daughter Jackie and David Lipson of Dobbs Fe
 HOHAUSER--Laura. On December 11, 2004. Loving and devoted wife of the late Martin. Beloved darling daughter of the late Jacob and Esther London. Devoted Mom to Bill, Joan and Sharon Hohauser. Doting Grandma Laura to Alex and Emma. Her baking, needlepoint, her love of books, her knowlege, st
 HRONCICH--Viola M. On December 10. She was the devoted wife of the late Anthony, loving mother of Deborah, James and the late Thomas, cherished grandmother of Zoe and Benjamin. Her radiance, wisdom and gentle spirit will be our cherished memory for the rest of our lives.       
 KRAUT--Rose Bernstein. Beloved sister and aunt, passed away December 10, after a long illness. She will always be remembered.       
 OBERLEY--Charlet. On December 11, 2004, after a long illness from Parkinson's Disease. Beloved sister of Dorothea Katz and Mildred Kessel. Loving aunt of Jane Katz and Elaine Kuperberg, June Guzman, Paul Katz, Jay Kessel and Fruma Granofsky; great-aunt to Stephen Kuperberg, Jason and Justin
 Rachael Dunaven Yocom, a dance educator and theorist, died on Nov. 14 in Tucson, said Cora Cahan, president of the New 42nd Street redevelopment organization and a former student. She was 88. Born in Corvallis, Ore., Dr. Yocom taught dance at schools and universities in Oregon, Idah
 BEHREND--Rose Susan Hirschhorn. 91, died peacefully at her home on Rittenhouse Square, Philadelphia on December 9, 2004. Beloved wife of Bernard, who died in March 2004, after 64 years of marriage, devoted mother of Catherine, Daniel and David; cherished sister of the late Hannah Hirschhorn
 CAPUTO--Kim Zorn. Beloved mother of Matt Caputo, loving daughter to Evelyn and sister to Eric Zorn. Kim was the Founding Editor and Publisher of Blindspot Magazine as well as the Founder and Designer of Blindspot Books. She passed away after a long struggle with cancer. Kim's wishes were th
 FINKELSTEIN -- Gloria, 91 years old, died peacefully on December 12, 2004 at Hospice by the Sea in Boca Raton, Florida. She was blessed by her caring daughter Barbara Altheim and son Fred Finkelstein, brother Ben Smolen, son-in-law Philip Altheim and daughter-in-law Colleen Finkelstein, her
 HOHAUSER--Laura. On December 11, 2004. Loving and devoted wife of the late Martin. Beloved darling daughter of the late Jacob and Esther London. Devoted Mom to Bill, Joan and Sharon Hohauser. Doting Grandma Laura to Alex and Emma. Her baking, needlepoint, her love of books, her knowlege, st
 SOFFER--Madeline Magzis, 63. On December 11, 2004 in Norwalk, Ct. from sequelae of Diabetes. She worked at the Norwalk Public Library and is survived by her husband of 36 years, Richard, their children Philip of Berkeley, and Abigail, of San Francisco, her brother Michael of New York City a
 STERN--Helen Burgher, 93, formerly of Norfolk, Virginia, died on December 11. Mrs. Stern, and her late husband, Old Dominion University Professor Robert L. Stern, were natives of Albany, NY who were stationed in Norfolk during WWII. The Sterns became prominent civic and community activists 
 ACHILLES--Virginia, died at her home in Weekapaug, RI. She was 80 years old. Her husband was the late H. Laurence Achilles, Jr.       
 BENENSON -- Beatrice. On December 12, 2004. She was 86 years old. Devoted wife of the late Harold Benenson. Beloved mother of Janice, Harvey and Sandi, Joel and Lisa. Adoring grandmother of Peter and Marcy Marcus, Gabrielle and Gary Duvall, Courtney, Alexandra, Anya and Will. Great grandmot
 COLER--Tina. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Tina Coler of Pacific Palisades, Calif., a long-time, devoted friend. The beloved wife of the late Alexander Coler, who served on the ATS Board of Directors, Board of Regents and Technion Int
 DONOVAN--Frances M., 83, on December 13, 2004. Born and raised in Houlton, Maine, and a 1943 graduate of the University of Maine, she served with the American Red Cross in WWII, stationed in Kunming and Tientsin, China. After the war, she was assistant to Bill Cunningham, then one of the le
 FINKELSTEIN--Gloria. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University notes with profound sadness the passing of the beloved mother of our devoted friend and Benefactor, Barbara Altheim, a member of our Cancer Research Advisory Board. For more than three decades, Barbara and her hu
 KLEIN--Rosa Billet. On December 13, 2004 in her 99th year. Sweetheart of the late Dr. Nicholas Klein. Adored mother of Judith and Ralph Steinman. She was a community activist, a faithful worker for social causes. As our memories of her deeds will attest, she was an original. Services Thursd
 PFEIFER--Audrey Margaret, 83, of Wading River, NY passed away on November 28, 2004. She was born July 3, 1921 in North Tarrytown, NY. Daughter of John Reynolds and Josephine Greeley. Her husband of more than 60 years, Henry Charles Pfeifer predeceased her. She was the beloved mother of Henr
 SHAHN -- Bernarda Bryson. The Trustees and Governors of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture express their sincere condolences to the family on their loss. Bernarda was a dear friend of the School for over 40 years, serving on the Board of Governors since 1969. We honor her life a
 Bernarda Bryson Shahn, the widow of the painter Ben Shahn, who won her own recognition as an artist late in life, died on Sunday at her home in Roosevelt, N.J., her son, Jonathan Shahn, said. She was 101. Ms. Shahn, who began her career as a writer, printmaker and illustrator, was b
 BALL--Jacqueline. On December 12, 2004. Beloved wife of Nino H. Pesut. Loving mother of Nina Ball-Pesut. From Zagreb to East Harlem she leaves behind her students to whom she was devoted. A memorial service will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 11AM on Sunday December 19. Memorial contribution
 KLEIN--Rosa Billet. On December 13, 2004 in her 99th year. Sweetheart of the late Dr. Nicholas Klein. Adored mother of Judith and Ralph Steinman. She was a community activist, a faithful worker for social causes. As our memories of her deeds will attest, she was an original. Services Thursd
 PAASHAUS -- Sylvia (nee Chuse), formerly Gomperts. Died peacefully on December 8, 2004 in San Diego, CA at age 83 after a brief but challenging illness. She is survived by her beloved husband Robert, brother Sidney Chuse (Claire), nieces Ellen Chuse, Loren Chuse, Karen Gustafson, Valerie Ch
 SCHWIMMER--Rose. Sutton Place Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of our esteemed member and benefactor. Our heartfelt condolences to her devoted husband Herman, loving children and grandchildren. A beautiful woman who will be missed by her many friends at the congregation. A
 SHNEIDERMAN--Eileen. The International Center of Photography notes with sorrow the passing of Eileen Shneiderman, Honorary Trustee, and close friend of the institution since its founding. She was the sister of David Seymour (''Chim''), one of the pioneering photojournalists to whom ICP was 
 Agnes Martin, an American painter whose luminous fields of pale color traversed by hand-drawn pencil lines preserved the Romantic spirit of Abstract Expressionism and prefigured the austerities of Minimalism, died yesterday in a retirement community in Taos, N.M. She was 92 and had 
 Henny Backus, the widow of the comic actor Jim Backus and an actress and author of wit and verve, died on Dec. 9 in Los Angeles, her longtime home. She was 93. She died after a series of strokes, said a friend, Doris Bacon. Mrs. Backus, a leggy redhead with a droll sense of 
 BUSLIK--Rita Jayne (nee Doneger) of Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Jerome. Loving mother of James and Debra Buslik, Audrey Schneiderman-Goldberg and Maynard Goldberg. Dear sister of the late Morton & Henry Doneger. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Bradley & Daniel Buslik and Andr
 HOFFMAN -- Belle. Died peacefully on December 15, 2004, age 94. Beloved wife of the late Leo Hoffman; mother of Ethel and Julian Decter, and Joel and Lily Hoffman; grandmother of Jared Hoffman, Benjamin Decter, Margaret Hoffman and Catherine Sim, great grandmother of Addie, Maxwell, Evan, L
 KING--Gioconda. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Gioconda King, a generous benefactor and member of the Chairman's Council, whose interest in and benevolence toward the museum spanned many years. Her graciousness and her love of the institution w
 KLAPPER -- Fern. Beloved wife of James Danalewich, daughter of Dr. Stanley and Mrs. Deborah Klapper, sister of Brian and Patricia Klapper, aunt to Alex, Josh and Danielle Klapper, passed away on December 15, 2004, at the age of 34. She was an accomplished psychologist and an exceptional hum
 LOEW--Gilda Gerber Greenfield Schechter. The family and friends mourn the passing of a wonderful woman who touched the lives of many in many ways-charitable endeavors-Pride of Judea, Temple Israel of Great Neck; community endeavors and a long career as a pioneer in home health care. A caree
 MARTIN--Agnes. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Agnes Martin. Through her art of sublime equilibrium and transcendent radiance, Agnes Martin aesthetically communicated the experience of happiness, contentment, and o
 SPEYER--Irma G., formerly of Fresh Meadows and Manhattan in her 91st year on December 16, 2004 in Greenport, NY. Devoted wife of 63 years of Samuel Speyer CPA, mother of Jane and Jonathan Weber of Nashua, NH, Dr. James and Karen Speyer of Manhattan and Margaret and Paul Poster of Scarsdale.
 BALL--Jacqueline. On December 12, 2004. Beloved wife of Nino H. Pesut. Loving mother of Nina Ball-Pesut. From Zagreb to East Harlem she leaves behind her students to whom she was devoted. A memorial service will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 11AM on Sunday December 19. Memorial contribution
 BUSLIK--Rita Jayne (nee Doneger) of Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Jerome. Loving mother of James and Debra Buslik, Audrey Schneiderman - Gold berg and Maynard Goldberg. Dear sister of the late Morton and Henry Doneger. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Bradley and Daniel Bus lik 
 BEGLEY--Frances. On December 18, 2004, two days short of her 94th birthday. Widow of Dr. Edward D. Begley. Beloved mother of Louis Begley, grandmother of Peter, Adam and Amey, and greatgrandmother of Nicholas, Julia and Jacob. Died in her sleep at her home. Funeral service at Frank E. Campb
 DEITCHMAN -- Pauline Si mon, aged 92, died December 11, 2004 in Tallahassee, FL where she had resided since 2000. A memorial service is planned at a later date. A native and long time resident of NYC, she was a 1932 graduate of Hunter College, was employed as a social worker during the Grea
 HILL--Marcia. Boca Raton, FL died peacefully on December 11, 2004, her family at her side after a long and courageous three year battle. She is survived by her beloved husband of 43 years, Robert Anthony, and her loving children Mardi, Karen, Wendy, Gina, Bob, and Gary. Devoted mother-in-la
 KONZEN -- Elizabeth ''Liz.'' Ring 26 of the International Brotherhood of Magicians regrets the untimely passing of its beloved past President and long-term Secretary. We will miss her cheerfulness and love of magic. Jerry Wiesenberg, President       
 LEEDY--Catherine Lehman. December 6 in Sarasota, FL. Born Elkins Park, PA April 28, 1915. Married 57 years to Harold J. Leedy. Known for her golf ''A'' ladies championships at Quaker Ridge Country Club for 13 years. Survived by son Jeff of Elk, CA.       
 LOEW--Gilda Gerber Greenfield Schechter. The family and friends mourn the passing of a wonderful woman who touched the lives of many in many ways-charitable endeavors-Pride of Judea, Temple Israel of Great Neck; community endeavors and a long career as a pioneer in home health care. A caree
 MADDOW--Freda, 87, of Los Angeles, died on December 11, 2004. Wife of the late Ben Maddow, mother of Emily Dawson and her husband John, and Ellen Maddow and her husband Paul Zimet. Grandmother of Rebekah, William, Elliot, Maggie, Anya and Isaac. She was a member of the Martha Graham Dance C
 MARTIN--Agnes. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Agnes Martin. Through her art of sublime equilibrium and transcendent radiance, Agnes Martin aesthetically communicated the experience of happiness, contentment, and o
 BEGLEY--Frances. On December 18, 2004, two days short of her 94th birthday. Widow of Dr. Edward D. Begley. Beloved mother of Louis Begley, grandmother of Peter, Adam and Amey, and greatgrandmother of Nicholas, Julia and Jacob. Died in her sleep at her home. Funeral service at Frank E. Campb
 GOLDSTEIN -- Dorothy Le vine. 64 of New York, NY, died suddenly on December 17, 2004. Loving mother, sister, dear and selfless friend to all whose lives she touched. Lover of all the arts, teacher and social worker whose strength, humor and overwhelming kindness is a continual inspiration t
 LAPE--Eve Bergman. In loving memory of her style, grace, courage and dignity. Bob and Carol       
 The soprano Renata Tebaldi, one of the most beloved opera singers of all time -- Arturo Toscanini, hard to please, said she had ''the voice of an angel'' -- died yesterday in the Republic of San Marino, where she had a home, her doctor told The Associated Press. Miss Tebaldi, who had been i
 FISLER -- Elizabeth (nee Parker) on Tuesday morning, December 14, 2004. Betsy died peacefully at home in Newburyport, MA after a long struggle with cancer and emphysema. She grew up in Darien, CT; got her degree at University of Conn; met her husband while working at Time Inc. in New York; 
 GOODMAN -- Paula (nee Edelman) December 19, 2004, Age 63. Beloved wife of Dr. Robert L. Goodman, of Bryn Mawr, PA. Devoted mother of Debra (Ben) Naish and Ellen (Steven) Ross. Loving Nana of George, Eliza, May, Charlie and Edward. Relatives and friends are invited to services Wednesday Dece
 KANZAKI--Helen H. On December 16. 1923-2004. Devoted wife of the late Hitoshi. Loving mother of her son Brian. She will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Visitation Kennedy - Roth Funeral Home, Woodside, NY, Wednesday 2-5 & 7-9.       
 LORENZ--Marjorie. On December 20, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Ronald. She leaves behind her many dear relatives and friends. Reposing Riverdale Funeral Home, 5044 Broadway at 214th St., NYC, Wednesday 6:30-9 PM. Funeral services Thursday 9:30 AM at Our Saviour's Atonement Lutheran Church
 MARSH--Penelope Clare, 63, formerly of Greenwich and New York City, passed away on December 11, 2004 in Charlotte, NC. Penny enhanced the lives of all she touched. A celebration in New York of Penny's life to be announced. Donations: World Wildlife Fund, PO Box 96555, Washington, DC 20017-7
 NATHAN--Belle. The Board of Trustees, volunteers and staff of Thirteen/WNET mourn the loss of Belle C. Nathan, a longtime Thirteen Patron and member of our Legacy Society. A passionate and generous supporter, she did much to further Thirteen's mission of providing the best cultural programm
 TEBALDI--Renata. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of the beloved soprano Renata Tebaldi. She was among the greatest singers of the 20th century and the Met was fortunate to present her in 269 performances, more than any other opera house in the world. From the moment of her Met debut
 YARIN--Susan, of Laguna Woods, CA, on December 17, 2004. Survived by her loving husband Marvin, sons Robert and David, brother Craig and sister - in - law Sherri, two daughters-in-law Carolyn and Lisa, and five grandchildren, Ben, Sam, Jeremy, Jennifer and Michael. Donations appreciated to 
 ZIMMERMAN--Anne Templeton, M.D. The John Templeton Foundation mourns the passing of Anne Templeton Zimmerman, M.D., a physician and activist, who died Thursday December 16 while undergoing heart surgery. Zimmerman was the only daughter of the world-renowned pioneer of the global mutual fund
 BIDWELL--Mary Kane. Beloved wife of the late chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, J. Truman Bidwell, Mary Kane Bidwell, 96, died in her sleep Monday at her Manhattan apartment. Mrs. Bidwell had a long and distinguished career in charity work. As vice president of the Youth Consultation 
 BRODSKY--Vivian Riva (nee Kalish). December 20, 2004, age 86. Devoted mother of David and wife Ronni. Loving grandmother of Abigail, Jacob and Emma. Dear sister of Gloria, James and Louis. Contributions in her memory may be made to the International Rett Syndrome Association, 9121 Piscatawa
 CLAPHAM--Mary Delahanty, formerly of Rumson, NJ, died Saturday, December 18 at age 103 in Somerset, MA. She was the wife of the late Arthur Clapham. Mrs. Clapham and her husband were active supporters of numerous charitable and health care organizations, including Riverview Hospital in Red 
 GOLDMAN--Enid. December 21. Age 73, New York City. Beloved mother of Richard and Jonathan, and the late David Goldman. Wife of the late Frederick Goldman and late Abe Terkowitz. Enid loved and adored her grandchildren Arielle, Chloe, Mikella, Chelsea, Grant, Ian, Jake and Clancy. Her grandc
 GROSSMAN -- Barbara Rosenberg of White Plains, NY. Died December 20, 2004 at age 67. Born August 5, 1937 in Forest Hills, NY to David and Kate (Meyers) Rosenberg. A member of the Hampshire Country Club, the Arts Students League of NY, Westchester Jewish Center and the Harmonie Club of NYC. 
 HOOLAHAN--Viola Kruse, 93 of Boynton Beach, FL. On December 20, 2004. Former Secretary-Treasurer of the Dance Educators of America. Loving mother of James, Jr. and Gerard Hoolahan. Dear sister of Grace Malatesta. Cherished grandmother of Kevin and Bradley Hoolahan. Also survived by two grea
 KRUKOWSKI--Dr. Elizabeth. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband, Dr. Ben Zion Wacholder and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman 
 NATHAN--Belle Calderon, beloved wife of Murray L. Nathan for 66 years, died peacefully at her home on December 18, 2004 after a long illness. An award-winning designer of Calderon Belts & Bags, Belle was a devoted partner in business, as in life, with Murray. Belle was respected and loved b
 PAUL--Alice. All of us at The Sirus Fund mourn the untimely death of our Executive Director, Alice Paul. Alice was a progressive leader in the not for profit world. At The Sirus Fund, her generous heart, lively intelligence and deep, forward looking social commitment guided us to a variety 
 SCHAFFER--Ariel W. Formerly of Bronxville, NY, died December 19, 2004, in Lebanon, NH, after a short illness. A graduate of Sarah Lawrence College, with an M.A. in English Literature from Columbia University, she taught for a number of years in New Hampshire's College for Lifelong Learning.
 WINSTON -- Audrey. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Audrey Winston. Audrey had been a member since 1958. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to her family. Earle Yaffa, Presid
 ZINMAN--Lucile. A native of Yonkers, at 101 years of age. Born on July 22, 1903, she was one of the last Ziegfeld Follies Girls, having appeared in the Follies of 1921, '22, '23 and '24 under her stage name, Lucile Layton, and before that, in the Midnight Frolics produced by Ziegfeld. As a 
 GOLDMAN--Enid. Our hearts cry out in profound sorrow at the loss of our beloved cousin. The world is diminished, its light darkened, by the passing of Enid who faced unspeakable odds with enormous courage and enduring optimism. Determined to leave a legacy of hope for all those afflicted wi
 NATHAN -- Belle Calderon. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Belle Calderon Nathan, beloved wife of Murray L. Nathan. The Nathans have been cherished friends and generous supporters of UJA-Federation and the world Jewish community.
 VAN ENGEL--Yvonne of New York City, on December 19, 2004. Predeceased by her husband Nathan. Survived by her children Daniel (Lynne), Henry (Anna) and Renee (Jeff) Puchalsky, sister Denise Fuchs and grandchildren Emily, Madeleine, Nicole, Heather, David, Evan, Adam and Lindsay. She will be 
 Gretchen Bender, an artist who worked in several photographic and film mediums, died on Sunday at her Manhattan home. She was 53. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Bender belonged to the generation of early 1980's Pictures artists, who included Jack Goldstein, Cindy
 CAPUTO--Kim Zorn. Her many friends in photography deeply mourn the passing of Kim Zorn Caputo, Founding Editor & Publisher of Blind Spot. Kim touched the lives of photographers, dealers, curators, and collectors with her elegant magazine. Our thoughts are with her family, son Matt, and long
 GITLIN--Rose. December 21, 1914-December 23, 2004. Wife of the late Mac Gitlin, mother of Bruce and Carol, Susan and Ed, Alan ''Buz'' (deceased) and Jane. Also survived by her sisters Edith and Mickey, seven grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Services 11:30AM on December 24th at Ri
 KAROL--Ruth B. December 22, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Loving mother of Sybil, Roslyn and Zachary of blessed memory. Dear sister of Josephine, adoring grandmother and great - grandmother. Her grace, compassion & wisdom will live in our hearts forever. Visiting Saturday, 7-9 PM
 FRANK--Virginia on December 23, 2004. Her family whom she adored, are profoundly grateful to have shared their lives with a woman of such varied and amazing qualities. Virginia was an explorer, an art collector, an ardent supporter of reform Democratic causes, a doyenne of Brooklyn Jewish S
 FREYLINGHUYSEN -- Emily Lawrance. Died peacefully at home in Far Hills, NJ on December 23, 2004 at age 93. She is survived by her husband of 67 years, Joseph S. Frelinghuysen and her four children, Margaret F. Kurzman, Joseph S. Frelinghuysen Jr, Susan F. van Roijen, Barbara F. Israel, ten 
 GOLDFARB -- Jean Shum rack, on December 23. Born October 22, 1936 in Malden, MA. Deeply loved wife of Robert Goldfarb and beloved mother of Jessie and Emily. Jeannie leaves us with memories of her courage and strength, her beauty and elegance, and her love of the written and spoken word. Sh
 KAROL--Ruth B. December 22, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Loving mother of Sybil, Roslyn and Zachary of blessed memory. Dear sister of Josephine, adoring grandmother and great - grandmother. Her grace, compassion & wisdom will live in our hearts forever. Service Sunday, 11:15 AM 
 MORGENSTEIN -- Charlotte, on December 24, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Chiel Morgenstein. She is survived by children: Henry (Elinor) Morgenstein, Ruth (Jacob) Kaufman, and Jacob (Tovah) Morgenstein; grandchildren, Morris Kaufman, Aron (Lisa Wolf) Kaufman, Barbara (Eric) Smolen, Henry Kau
 PORUSH--Ruth, died December 23, after a long illness. Survived by her husband of 51 years, Jerry, her daughters, Maureen Porush and Karen Trowbridge (Tom) and son Daniel (Lisa), seven grandchildren: Jonathan, Blake, Jessica, Joelle, Matthew, Rachel and Jack; her brother, Ira Helman (Nancy).
 ROSENBERG -- Joan M. Peacefully, after a long illness, on December 23, 2004 at 80. Beloved wife of Fred L. Rosenberg, daughter of the late Sidney and Jessie Mattison, loving mother of son Eric and daughter Vicki and of Eric's wife Helen, devoted grandmother of Karen and Stuart, loving siste
 YORMACK--Ella. Beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, passed away on December 23, 2004. Ella, with her optimistic attitude and love of life, will be greatly missed. Services will be held at 11:45 A.M. on Sunday, December 26th at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenu
 CAPUTO--Kim Zorn. Her many friends in photography deeply mourn the passing of Kim Zorn Caputo, Founding Editor & Publisher of Blind Spot. Kim touched the lives of photographers, dealers, curators, and collectors with her elegant magazine. Our thoughts are with her family, son Matt, and long
 FRANK--Virginia on December 23, 2004. Her family whom she adored, are profoundly grateful to have shared their lives with a woman of such varied and amazing qualities. Virginia was an explorer, an art collector, an ardent supporter of reform Democratic causes, a doyenne of Brooklyn Jewish S
 FRELINGHUYSEN -- Emily Lawrance. Died peacefully at home in Far Hills, NJ on December 23, 2004 at age 93. She is survived by her husband of 67 years, Joseph S. Frelinghuysen and her four children, Margaret F. Kurzman, Joseph S. Frelinghuysen Jr, Susan F. van Roijen, Barbara F. Israel, ten g
 GHEE--Greta. The Board and staff of Third Street Music School Settlement are deeply saddened by the sudden death of our dear friend and colleague and devoted Board member. She was an amazingly beautiful life force and a dependable voice of reason who cared deeply about the school and its co
 GOLDFARB -- Jean Shum rack, on December 23. Born October 22, 1936 in Malden, MA. Deeply loved wife of Robert Goldfarb and beloved mother of Jessie and Emily. Jeannie leaves us with memories of her courage and strength, her beauty and elegance, and her love of the written and spoken word. Sh
 HATZ--Sylvia. Of Boca Raton, FL, on December 23, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Devoted mother of Joan and Keith Jampolis, Jon and Barbara Hatz. Dear sister of Ruth Weisen and Leonard Lorberbaum. Adored grandmother of six and greatgrandmother of ten. Donations may be made in her me
 HOROWITZ--Selma of Monroe Township and Coconut Creek, FL. passed away peacefully on Thursday, December 23, 2004 with her family at her side. She is survived by her beloved husband of 58 years, Sol and her loving children, Ruth, Bruce, Susan, Mal, Barbara and Mel. Adoring grandmother of Bria
 KAUFMAN--Ruth. The officers and staff of the Village Copier note with great sorrow the untimely passing of our dear friend, colleague and mentor whose passion for excellence, wisdom with people and boundless energy made her loved by us all and a cornerstone of our success. Our deepest condo
 MARLOWE--Bernice Nachman, 77, of Mahwah, NJ, died on December 22, 2004. She is mourned by her son, Robert and daughter, Ann.       
 ROSENBERG -- Joan M. Peacefully, after a long illness, on December 23, 2004 at 80. Beloved wife of Fred L. Rosenberg, daughter of the late Sidney and Jessie Mattison, loving mother of son Eric and daughter Vicki and of Eric's wife Helen, devoted grandmother of Karen and Stuart, loving siste
 WIENER -- Constance Ellen ''Connie'' Gordon. Died on November 26, 2004, at New York University Medical Center. The family asks that memorials be contributed to the East Sixties Neighborhood Association, or to the donor's favorite charity. At her request, Connie's ashes will be scattered in 
 ZBOROWSKI--Diana. On behalf of the Officers, Executive Board and Staff of the American Society for Yad Vashem, we mark with profound sadness the passing of Diana Zborowski, wife of our esteemed chairman, Eli Zborowski and mother of Lilly and Murry. Diana emerged from the ashes of the Holoca
 Anne Truitt, a sculptor and writer widely admired for her painted, columnar structures and for her published journals about her life as an artist, died on Thursday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. She was 83 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications of abdominal
 KOPECKY--Luanne Arnold. 68, of Ossining, NY, December 9, 2004. Devoted wife and friend, avid skier and compassionate nurse for 30 years at Beth Israel Hospital. Survived by her husband Rudolf, sister Diane and extended family. She will be missed. A memorial service is planned for the spring
 ZBOROWSKI -- Diana. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a Jewish community leader and passionate supporter of Holocaust education. An elegant, modest and gracious woman, she and husband Eli, both Polish Holocaust surivors, established the Eli and Diana Zborowski Professional
 CROHN--Shirley B. Age 87, beloved wife of Theodore for 68 years, adored mother of Janis Crohn and Dana Charlton Zarro, dear sister of Libby Levine and the late Grace Meltzer, cherished grandmother of Lora Lee and great-grandmother of Naomi, died at home after a long illness on December 27. 
 CUTLER--Mary Jane Venger. December 24, 1917-December 27, 2004. A leader in the field of nursing and nursing administration, she earned both a masters and doctorate from Teachers College, Columbia University. She served as Director of Nursing at Albert Einstein Medical Center in Philadelphia
 KNOX -- Elinor Mayer. 1914-2004. Born in Chicago to Elias and Lucille Mayer, Elinor lived most of her life in New York. She died after a brief illness at Lenox Hill Hospital. A worldwide photojournalist during and after college, Elinor excelled at competitive sports. Intially an accomplishe
 ROTHENBERG--Ann. Age 96 on December 24, 2004. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Mark Rothenberg. Beloved mother of Judith (Dr. Robert) Podell. Cherished grandmother of Dr. Deborah (Ari) Fishkind, and great-grandmother of Aaron and Marc. Dedicated supporter of Israel and Torah institutions.      
 ZBOROWSKI--Diana. Wise, gracious and a superlative friend, she survived the Holocaust and taught its lessons without bitterness or rancor. To her devoted husband, Eli, her beloved children, Lily & Avner and Murry & Annette, and her adored grandchildren, we extend our deepest condolences. Ba
 Freda Flier Maddow, an early Martha Graham dancer, died on Dec. 11 in Los Angeles. She was 87, and lived in Los Angeles. Her death was announced by her daughter Ellen Maddow. Ms. Maddow, who performed as Freda Flier, trained and danced in Los Angeles with Benjamin Zemach and
 BOOKMAN--Doris. Of Riverdale, NY, world traveler, mother of two sons, Cliff and Malcolm Wessot, stepmother of one daughter, Amy Livingood, philanthropist and overall lover of life passed away on December 26, 2004 following a brief illness. She was 83. Doris had a zest for life. She enjoyed 
 HEALEY--Vernice V. of Mount Laurel, NJ passed away on December 25, 2004 at the age of 87. Born on March 14, 1917 to Nicholas and Maria Cerone of West Albany, NY who immigrated from Naples, Italy. Loving and devoted wife of the late James E. Healey, mother to James M. Healey of Mount Laurel,
 KAHN--Dr. David, died December 27, 2004, at age 92, after a rich and wonderful life. Devoted husband of Carrol, beloved father of Wendy Kahn (Martin Burns) and Susan (Jeffrey) Stern, cherished grandfather of Jacob Burns, Michael and Peter Stern. Caring physician, dedicated teacher and leade
 McCANCE--Francine Jaques. Of Lenox, MA and Fishers Island, NY. On December 27, 2004. Beloved wife and best friend of Thomas. Devoted mother of Suzanne McCance Huguley married to Martin Huguley, and William McCance married to Suzanne Biette McCance. Adored grandmother (''Mamou'') of William 
 ROTHMAN--Anita. The Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing of a devoted past National President of the Yeshiva University Women's Organization, who was deeply dedicated to YU. The beloved wife of Jerry J. Rothman, she was highly intelligent and competent. Her loyalty to 
 SCHWEITZER--Marthe Alice. Born Marthe Alice Karsenty. On December 24, 2004. Cherished wife of the late Dr. Simon Beer. Loving mother of David and the late Madeleine Acosta. Born in Constantine, French North Africa, Alice had to climb many mountains to become a free being. She realized her a
 SONTAG--Susan. The Brooklyn Academy of Music mourns the loss of our great friend, Susan Sontag. In her words, ''The only interesting answers are those that destroy the questions.'' Karen Brooks Hopkins Joseph V. Melillo SONTAG--Susan. The members of the American Academy of Arts and 
 WARD--Rosemarie J. On December 28, 2004. Loving wife of the late Daniel Edmond. Beloved mother of Theresa Marie, her son-in-law Dominick Conde and Mary Frances. Dear grandmother to Grace, Joe and Katie. We will remember her profound grace and good humor and will miss her greatly. Mass of Ch
 Susan Sontag, the novelist, essayist and critic whose impassioned advocacy of the avant-garde and equally impassioned political pronouncements made her one of the most lionized presences -- and one of the most polarizing -- in 20th-century letters, died yesterday morning in Manhattan, where
 BERLINER--Dorothy. On December 28, 2004, at age 89. Loving and beloved wife of the late Joseph Berliner. Devoted and loving mother of Helga and Susan, adoring grandmother of Marc, Jonathan, Julia, and Michael. A true eshet chayal, she emerged from the ashes of Auschwitz to find her husband 
 BOOKMAN--Doris. Of Riverdale, NY, world traveler, mother of two sons, Cliff and Malcolm Wessot, stepmother of one daughter, Amy Livingood, philanthropist and overall lover of life passed away on December 26, 2004 following a brief illness. She was 83. Doris had a zest for life. She enjoyed 
 BURSTEIN--Ellen. Television journalist, writer, educator and extraordinary spirit. Died on December 28, 2004, as gracefully as she lived, surrounded by family and loving friends and caregivers at her home in New York City. She will be deeply missed by all those whose lives she touched. The 
 CHASE--Olga S. (nee Olga Schwind). Died peacefully on December 14 after a brief stay at Sound Shore Medical Center. She leaves two sons David of Andover, MA and Thomas of Edgewater, MD; grandchildren Ashley, Robert, Katherine, Martha and Julian, and great-grandson Annan. Born in New York Ci
 EIGES--Beatrice W. Died December 24, at 90. An artist and ethicist all her life, devoted wife of Sydney, beloved mother of Marilyn and Mark and loving friend to many.       
 HERSCHER--Sylvia. On Wednesday, December 29, 2004, age 91, peacefully at home. Beloved wife of the late Seymour. She leaves behind her many many dear relatives and friends. Survived by children Miriam, David, Elaine, and Leonard; and grandchildren Michael and Sam. Funeral service Friday, De
 HUFFORD - ZASLOW -- Hele na. On December 28, 2004 in CT. Beloved daughter of Susan Hufford and the late Michael Zaslow. Helena, age 19, had just completed her first semester at Wellesley College. She is survived and sorely mourned by her sister Marika, her mother Susan and many loving frien
 INTRIERI--Julia. Age 93. On December 28, 2004. Born May 30, 1911 in Elizabeth, N.J. Daughter of Nicholas and Rose Caruso. Devoted wife of the late Dominick, and thelate Emil Lamanda. Beloved mother of Pasquale and Nicholas. A source of strength, love, goodness and inspiration to her family,
 JOHNSON--Sue Storer, 69, died on December 26, after an extended battle with Parkinson's disease. In her youth, Sue was a member of the U.S. swim team. An engineering graduate of Purdue, she served on the Knapp Commission and was an administrator for the New York State court system. She is s
 MEISEL--Ruth, 97, of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Hollywood, FL and NYC, passed away on December 27, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Irving Meisel, loving mother of Mel Meisel (Carol Etkin), dear sister of Lillian Lerman and Sylvia Goldman, NY, cherished grandmother of Dr. James and Ellen Mei
 SCHLOSBERG -- Ruth (nee Helfgott). Of White Plains, N.Y., formerly of North Miami, FL., died December 28, 2004 surrounded by family, at the age of 96 after a long and full life. Beloved wife of the late David Schlosberg. Beloved mother of Joan and Stephen Kass, and Richard and Pamela Schlos
 BUCCI--Peggy Phillips (born June 25, 1916), theatre publicist, produced Broadway playwright, television/film writer, accomplished sailor and scuba-diver, died at age 88 on December 27, 2004, Dana Point, California. Beloved mother of son, Jonathan Phillips Bucci, and devoted grandmother of N
 BURSTEIN--Ellen. Television journalist, writer, educator and extraordinary spirit. Died on December 28, 2004, as gracefully as she lived, surrounded by family and loving friends and caregivers at her home in New York City. She will be deeply missed by all those whose lives she touched. The 
 CAUMAN -- Rebecca (nee Lowenstein). At age 88, on December 30, 2004. Beloved mother of Anne and Dick, and the one many others wished they'd had, incomparable grandmother to Charlie, Sam and Seth (and Jason, too). There was only one Ducky. We miss you already. A memorial service will be held
 HENKIN -- Helen D. (nee Dinerstein). 82, died on December 29, 2004 after an extended battle with emphysema. Beloved wife of the late Norman Henkin. Loving mother of Louise Quigley and Alice Henkin. Mother-in-law of Charles Quigley and John Nicolich. Adored grandmother of Ruth, Leah and Soph
 HERSCHER--Sylvia. On Wednesday, December 29, 2004, age 91, peacefully at home. Beloved wife of the late Seymour. She leaves behind her many many dear relatives and friends. Survived by children Miriam, David, Elaine, and Leonard; and grandchildren Michael and Sam. Funeral service Friday, De
 NATHANIEL--Semha Sheena. Born in 1922 in Baghdad, Iraq. Died on December 14, 2004. One of six children who survived into adulthood, she was born following her father, Sassoon Sheena's, miraculous return home after seven years of hiding from his Ottoman captors during WWI. She was thus named
 PANARELLO -- Edward Joseph, past President of the New York State AFL-CIO and longtime resident of Larchmont, on December 30, 2004. Beloved husband of Eleanor (nee Simmons). Devoted father of Valerie Mastronardi and her husband, Nicholas, and the late Edward Panarello. Also survived by four 
 PAUL--Jack. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our member, Beth Rosenberg. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 TANEY--Genelle. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 Sylvia Herscher, whose 50-year career in theater included stints as an agent, a general manager and a producer, died on Wednesday at her home in New York, her son David said. She was 91. When Ms. Herscher received a special Tony Award in 2000, she modestly credited her long career t
