 Janice Farrar Thaddeus, a scholar, poet, editor and former Harvard lecturer in English, died on Dec. 23 in Cambridge, Mass. She was 68. The cause was a stroke, said her husband, Patrick Thaddeus. In ''When Women Look at Men'' (Harper & Row), the feminist anthology Dr. Thadde
 ABOODI-Esther, 60 years old. Died on December 30, 2001. Beloved wife of Oded. Devoted mother of Henry and Monica Aboodi, David and Karen Aboodi, and Steven and Abigail Hoffman. Cherished grandmother of Gabrielle, Michelle, Jacob, Lauren, Rachel, Avery, Nicole, Talia, Aaron, Eric and Phoebe.
 AXELROD-Harriet (Honey). Of Monroe Township, NJ, died December 29, 2001, peacefully at her winter residence at the Cascades in Boynton Beach, Florida, at the age of 83. Cherished wife of Maurice Axelrod, loving mother of Paul Axelrod & Susan P. Aguado, grandmother of David and Peter Aguado,
 BURNS-Marion E. On December 24, 2001 at her Maplewood Park Place residence, Bethesda, MD. Formerly at 127 Oxford Road, New Rochelle, NY. Loving wife of Joseph W. Burns (deceased), mother of Richard W. Burns, Kenneth H. Burns, and Margaret E. Fried. Loving grandmother of Elizabeth, Deborah, 
 COLVIN-Elinor. On Sunday, December 30, 2001. Born on February 24, 1944. Beloved wife of Stephen B. Colvin, M.D., devoted, loving and caring mother of Laurel Col vin, RN, NP, and Heather Colvin, M.D., cherished grandmother of Julia, beloved sister of Arlene Cheiken and daughter of the late N
 DISCHE-Renate. The Departments of Pathology and Pediatrics of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University mourn the death of Renate Dische, Ph.D.; M.D. Born in Breslau, Germany in 1920, Dr. Dische received the Ph.D. in biochemistry from Columbia in 1953 and the M.D. in 195
 GASPARI-Jean H. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Anne Worms upon the loss of her beloved daughter. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 KISHNER-Isabella. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the untimely death of Isabella Kishner, cherished daughter of Bryan and Stacy, and sister of Samantha. We express our heartfelt condolences to her beloved family. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Rabbi Scott Corngold Ellen R. Saxl,
 LAWLER-Priscilla. At home, December 30, 2001, Priscilla Lenihan Lawler of Woodbridge, CT. Wife of the late Richard F. Lawler. Survived by sons, Richard F., Gregory E., Paul J., Peter C., Quentin J. and Alexander J. Lawler. Sister of the late Edward, Paul & Rita Lenihan. Also survived by 12 
 SHECHTER-Florence. Beloved mother of our devoted member and teacher Sam Shechter. May her memory be a blessing for the family and for all of Israel. Mohegan Park Jewish Center       
 SOLAN-Miriam. Age 68, died at home December 31, 2001 after a short brave battle with lung cancer. For 46 wonderful years she was married to Henry, 79; she was the loving and proud mother of her two daughters, Alicia of Scarsdale, NY and Samara of San Francisco, CA. Loving mother-in-law of V
 SONNEBERG-Laura. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Sharon Hirsch upon the loss of her beloved mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 Eileen Heckart, the actress with a smoky voice and toothsome smile who won an Oscar for ''Butterflies Are Free,'' three Emmys and a special lifetime achievement Tony, died on Monday at her home in Norwalk, Conn. She was 82. The cause was cancer, her son Mark said. One of tho
 ABOODI-Esther. We mourn the passing of our dear friend, Esther Aboodi, beloved wife of Oded, mother of Henry, David, and Abi, and grandmother of Gabrielle, Michelle, Jacob, Lauren, Rachel, Avery, Nicole, Talia, Aaron, Eric, and Phoebe. We will miss her terribly. We will miss her courage, st
 COLVIN-Elinor. On Sunday, December 30, 2001. Born on February 24, 1944. Beloved wife of Stephen B. Colvin, M.D., devoted, loving and caring mother of Laurel Col vin, RN, NP, and Heather Colvin, M.D., cherished grandmother of Julia, beloved sister of Arlene Cheiken and daughter of the late N
 GARTNER-Mary T. The Community Synagogue Max D. Raiskin Center mourns the passing of our trustee and member of almost 60 years. Mary Gartner served as president of the sisterhood, chairlady of the bazaar and journal committees, and always thought first of how to serve and improve our synagog
 KEMPNER-Margaret. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records the passing of our cherished, devoted member, Margaret Kempner. Her life was extraordinarily long and abundantly blessed. Along with her family and loved ones we give thanks for the years that were given to her, the joy
 SLOAN-Barbara G. Born January 1, 1918 in New York City, passed away on December 19, 2001-A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Smith College, a housewife and mother. Barbara was a source of strength, a model of courage, forebearance and good humor to all. She is deeply missed. Surviving are her son 
 WOLFERMAN-Irene Schleider. Of Manhattan, formerly of Brooklyn, passed away suddenly on December 28, 2001. Adored and loving mother of Steven and Peter Schleider. Devoted mother-in-law to Beth and Mimi. Loving grandmother to Alex, David, Jake, Jessica, and Ali. Beloved wife to her late husba
 Julia Phillips, the Hollywood producer who turned her rage at the stars and power brokers into the best-selling chronicle ''You'll Never Eat Lunch in This Town Again,'' died Tuesday at her apartment in West Hollywood. She was 57. The cause was cancer, her daughter, Kate Phillips, sa
 ABOODI-Esther. The faculty of Columbia University's College of Physicians & Surgeons mourn the passing of our dear friend, Esther Aboodi. Esther was a philanthopist and longtime volunteer at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, where she was a member of the Health Sciences Advisory Counsel
 BEDARD-Gertrude King. On December 31, 2001 at her home, The Manhattan House. She was 90 years of age. Mrs. Bedard was a member of the Colony Club and the Clam Bake Club in Newport, Rhode Island. Her many friends in New York City and Newport mourn the loss of this wonderful person. There are
 CARR-Helen K. Died peacefully on January 1, 2002. Beloved wife of Leonard, loving mother of Eugene and Anita. She wil be deeply missed by all of her friends and family. Her generosity, courage, sophistication and beautiful smile will be an inspiration for us all. Funeral services will be he
 DOSIK-Lillian Abramowitz, 82. On December 27, 2001. Loving wife of the late Dr. Milton Abramowitz and Carl Dosik; daughter of Rose L. and Isidor Spieler. Cherished mother of devoted children, Barbara and Robert Lieberman and Edward Abramowitz; darling grandmother of Jill and Michael Lieberm
 FAVREAU-Joan J. Beloved mother, grandmother, greatgrandmother. Loving widow of the late Eustace. She is survived by sons Charles and Jon, daughters-in-law Margaret and Gloria, grandsons Jonathan, Matthew, Josh, Michael, and great-grandson Max. She was the embodiment of wisdom, joy, love, an
 FIRESTONE - Marcia. Beloved past president of The Jewish Early Childhood Association of Greater New York. Fiercely dedicated to raising salaries and benefits of early childhood educators. We will miss her and mourn her passing. Sari Luck Schneider JECA President       
 HILLES-Susan (Morse). Of Boston, on Tuesday, January 1, 2002. Wife of the late Frederick Whiley Hilles, mother of a daughter Susan Bush of Cambridge and a son, Frederick W. Hilles of Brooklyn, also survived by four grandsons, one granddaughter and six greatgrandchildren. A Memorial Service 
 KEMPNER-Margaret Loeb. The Board of Directors, Auxiliary and Administration of The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary mourn the passing of a dear friend and benefactor. For almost half a century Mrs. Kempner was associated with the Infirmary, first as a leader of the hospital Auxiliary, then as
 LANDAUER-Mari, EED. Of Northport on Jan. 1, 2002. Beloved wife of Philip Kleinberg. Devoted mother of Dr. Megan Landauer of Oshkosh, WI. Former Department Head of Psychological Services for the Islip School System. Long time clinical psychoanalyst in private practice. Active in many organiz
 MARTINEZ-Dolores, January 2, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Armando. Devoted mother of Isabel Sciaky and husband Moshe. Cherished grandmother of Shlomete Yoo and husband John. Loving great-grandmother of Adam. Treasured sister. Her grace, kindness and beauty will be missed.       
 McDONOUGH-Mamie. The board and staff at the Bedford Stuyvesant Family Health Center are deeply saddened by the loss of their dear friend and advisor. Her high energy, intellectual acuity and compassion will be missed. However, knowing her has transformed us all, forever. Charles Palms, Ulys
 MENCHER-Sylvia. Of Riverdale, NY. Loving wife of Irving Mencher and loving mother of Jesse and Eleanor. She was a life member and longtime bridge teacher of Brandeis University National Women's Committee.       
 OTTEN - Mildred Berney, 1911-2001. Widow of Albert Otten, died peacefully in her sleep on Friday, December 28, 2001 at her home in Teaneck, New Jersey at the age of 90. Born March 1, 1911 in Denver, Colorado, she was the 6th of 8 children, of Harry and Esther Michelson Berney. Mildred grew 
 PAPPELIS-Ruth. December 31, 2001. Loving cousin of Wendy Wall Shabsis and Nicolas Wolfers MacLean. A graduate of Barnard College and later became director of volunteers in healthcare services for many years. She was devoted to the humane care and rescue of animals. Friends may call Friday, 
 PERSKY-H. Pearl. Congregation Orach Chaim extends its sincerest condolences to our dedicated member Amy Persky on the loss of her beloved mother. May she and the Waldoks and Persky families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Michael D. Shmidman, Rabbi James A. Lassne
 RAMSEY-Wanda. On December 31. Survived by her loving husband, Robert, sister, Iza, and brother, Alain. Beloved mother of Gregory and Katia. Grandmother of Georgia and Claire, mother-inlaw of Howard. Aunt of Daphne, Barbara, Patrick and Nicholas. Loved by many friends & family. Service to be
 RUBINSTEIN-Aniela (Nela). Died peacefully at her home in NY on December 31. Age 93. Our beloved mother will be missed by all of us; her children, Eva, Paul, Alina and John Rubinstein, her grandchildren Amy and David (and Kristy) Coffin, Jason (and Amy), Jessica, Michael, Peter and Jacob Rub
 SALZMAN-Ida. With profound sorrow, we mourn the death of Ida Salzman, age 87, who died December 31, 2001. Adored and cherished spouse, for 63 years, of Jacob A. Salzman, mother and mother-inlaw of Richard and Sue Salzman, Anita and Myron Pulier, and Robert Salzman and Lori Brooks. Grandmoth
 WOLFERMAN-Irene Schleider. Of Manhattan, formerly of Brooklyn, passed away suddenly on December 28, 2001. Adored and loving mother of Steven and Peter Schleider. Devoted mother-in-law to Beth and Mimi. Loving grandmother to Alex, David, Jake, Jessica, and Ali. Beloved wife to her late husba
 ABOODI-Esther. The ColumbiaPresbyterian Health Sciences Advisory Council mourns the loss of its distinguished council member, Esther Aboodi. Her warmth and contributions to the campus will be missed tremendously by both Columbia University and NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital. Esther was a foun
 CARR-Helen K. Died peacefully on January 1, 2002. Beloved wife of Leonard, loving mother of Eugene and Anita. She wil be deeply missed by all of her friends and family. Her generosity, courage, sophistication and beautiful smile will be an inspiration for us all. Funeral services will be he
 COLVIN-Elinor. On Sunday, December 30, 2001. Born on February 24, 1944. Beloved wife of Stephen B. Colvin, M.D., devoted, loving & caring mother of Laurel Tanier, RN, NP, and Heather Colvin, M.D., cherished grandmother of Julia, beloved sister of Arlene Cheiken and daughter of the late Naom
 FLINKER-Stella. On January 3. Devoted daughter. Beloved sister of Sylvia Holzer. Cherished aunt of Joel, Elise, Leslie, Gerald, Robert and Kenneth. A nutritionist with degrees from NYU and Hunter College. Services on Sunday, 11:30AM, at Parkside Memorial Chapel, Queens Blvd. (corner 66th Av
 GROSS-Phyllis. Devoted NCJWNY Section board member, volunteer and enthusiastic supporter of our Children's Literacy Program and Children's Lending Library, Phyllis will be remembered for her commitment and enthusiasm. She will be sorely missed. Services 11:30 AM, Riverside Chapel, 76th Stre
 KELLOGG-Marguerite Adelaide Graham. Passed from this world on December 30, 2001, at age 83. A memorial will be held in the coming months. Widow of William Bradford Kellogg, she is mourned by her daughters, Ellen KelloggEvans and Riley Kellogg, her sisters, Louise Cook and Ruth Macleay, her 
 KEMPNER-Margaret Loeb. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Margaret Kempner, a cherished friend and beloved leader, who was a lifetime trustee of UJA-Federation. Mrs. Kempner expressed her unwavering commitment to Jewish and humanitari
 LEVITAN-Edith. The members of Willow Ridge Country Club announce with sadness the passing of Edith Levitan a beloved member of this club for many years. We extend our condolences to her husband Frank and their family. Myron Melnikoff, President Board of Governors       
 McNULTY-Ellen M. (O'Leary), 88. Of Fenton, MI, formerly of NYC, died Tuesday. Funeral Mass Friday, in Fenton, MI. Interment 1 PM Monday, at Long Island National Cemetery. Mrs. McNulty is survived by four children. Preceded in death by her husband, James.       
 MENCHER-Sylvia. Of Riverdale, NY. Loving wife of Irving Mencher and loving mother of Jesse and Eleanor. She was a life member and longtime bridge teacher of Brandeis University National Women's Committee.       
 PAPPELIS-Ruth. December 31, 2001. Loving cousin of Wendy Wall Shabsis and Nicolas Wolfers MacLean. A graduate of Barnard College and later became director of volunteers in healthcare services for many years. She was devoted to the humane care and rescue of animals. Friends may call Friday, 
 RAMSEY-Wanda. On December 31. Survived by her loving husband, Robert, sister, Iza, and brother, Alain. Beloved mother of Gregory and Katia. Grandmother of Georgia and Claire, mother-inlaw of Howard. Aunt of Daphne, Barbara, Patrick and Nicholas. Loved by many friends & family. Service to be
 WOLFERMAN-Irene Schleider. Of Manhattan, formerly of Brooklyn, passed away suddenly on December 28, 2001. Adored and loving mother of Steven and Peter Schleider. Devoted mother-in-law to Beth and Mimi. Loving grandmother to Alex, David, Jake, Jessica, and Ali. Beloved wife to her late husba
 Aniela Mlynarski Rubinstein, the widow of the pianist Arthur Rubinstein and a patron of charities and the arts in New York, died on Monday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 93. She was a co-founder of the Polonaise Ball and, as its frequent chairwoman, helped 
 ALBERT-Edith (LaBellman), 93. On January 3, 2002 in Hollywood, FL. Loving wife of the late Jacob G. Albert, dearest mother of Phyllis (Pinki) Wesler, Bal Harbour, FL, Allan Albert, Tampa, FL, Richard Albert, White Plains, NY, seven grandchildren and eight greatgrandchildren. A lifetime of c
 BLOCH-Margaret ''Grete''. 101, died peacefully Friday, January 4, 2002 in West Hartford, CT. Widow of Hermann Bloch. Grete lived a long and rich life. She was devoted to family, and despite her age she loved and understood children. She will be greatly missed, yet we rejoice in the fullness
 COLVIN-Elinor. On Sunday, December 30, 2001. Born on February 24, 1944. Beloved wife of Stephen B. Colvin, M.D., devoted, loving & caring mother of Laurel Tanier, RN, NP, and Heather Colvin, M.D., cherished grandmother of Julia, beloved sister of Arlene Cheiken and daughter of the late Naom
 KOREY-Esther. Born September 11, 1922 passed on Friday, January 4, 2002. Loving wife to Dr. William Korey, devoted mother to Alix and son-in-law Randy, Eileen and sonin-law Bob, and adoring grandmother to Rachel and Benjamin and beloved matriarch of an extended family. In lieu of flowers co
 MENCHER-Sylvia. Of Riverdale, NY. Loving wife of Irving Mencher and loving mother of Jesse and Eleanor. She was a life member and longtime bridge teacher of Brandeis University National Women's Committee.       
 OSTROW-Lillian. On January 4, 2002 at the age of 91. Beloved wife for 67 years of Charles. Devoted mother of David and Felice, Joan and the late Norman, Michele and the late Robert. Cherished sister of the late Sylvia Herman and the late Dr. Morris Fond. Adored grandmother and greatgrandmot
 OTTEN-Mildred Berney. The Board of Trustees and the Marymount Manhattan College community mourn the loss of our former trustee, Mildred Otten. On her retirement from the Board, in recognition of her special friendship to the college and dedicated service during her three terms on the Board 
 PAPPELIS-Ruth. December 31, 2001. Loving cousin of Wendy Wall Shabsis and Nicolas Wolfers MacLean. A graduate of Barnard College and later became director of volunteers in healthcare services for many years. She was devoted to the humane care and rescue of animals. Friends may call Friday, 
 PUTNAM-Marilyn. On January 4, 2002. Trustee of Theatrical Wardrobe Local 764 I.A.T.S.E. Beloved aunt of Margaret and Emily Putterman. Her family and friends will miss her dearly. Services Monday, 1:15 PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave.       
 QUITTELL-Muriel. With love from her family. Jules, Glenn, Jeanne, Robin, Rick, Lynne, Eric and Alexandra. QUITTELL-Muriel. Temple Israel of New Rochelle records with sorrow the death of its cherished member and extends its heartfelt sympathy to the family. Patricia Lampl, President 
 RAMSEY-Wanda. On December 31. Survived by her loving husband, Robert, sister, Iza, and brother, Alain. Beloved mother of Gregory and Katia. Grandmother of Georgia and Claire, mother-inlaw of Howard. Aunt of Daphne, Barbara, Patrick and Nicholas. Loved by many friends & family. Service to be
 SENDER-Blanka, M.D. On January 3, 2002 at the age of 91. Born in Poland, she found refuge and a new life in New York City in 1943; most of her family perished in the Holocaust. Beloved wife of the late Ivor. Much loved mother of Henriette (Henny) Sender, Rachelle (Shelly) Sender and her par
 SQUASSI-Natalie. Age 36 on Thursday, January 3, 2002 at her home in Red Bank, New Jersey. She was employed as the National Sales Manager, Lauren Division of Jones New York. Beloved wife of Christopher John. Cherished daughter, sister, friend and colleague. She will be forever loved and miss
 WEISBERG-Blanche S. Died January 3, 2002 at age 73. Deeply loved wife of Honorable Gerard M. and adored mother of Andrea and Roland Murphy and Dr. Bruce Weisberg. Beloved sister of Sarah and Abe Hochner. The lights of Bubbie's life, she is also survived by her 4 grandchildren, Roland II, Ky
 ABOODI-Esther. We deeply mourn the passing of Esther Aboodi-a classy, elegant lady who inspired us with her warmth, courage, strength and love. She was a part of our family and we will miss her terribly. Irma, Paul, Roslyn, Jerry, Howard, Abby, Barbara, David, Edward and Robin       
 AKERMAN-Simone. On January 3, 2002. Beloved wife of Adrian. Loving daughter of Annette and Joseph. Her unwaving devotion and affection will be missed by her family, friends, colleagues and students. Services Sunday at 12:30 PM at ''Parkside Chapels,'' 98-60 Queens Boulevard.       
 ALBERT-Edith (LaBellman), 93. On January 3, 2002 in Hollywood, FL. Loving wife of the late Jacob G. Albert, dearest mother of Phyllis (Pinki) Wesler, Bal Harbour, FL, Allan Albert, Tampa, FL, Richard Albert, White Plains, NY, seven grandchildren and eight greatgrandchildren. A lifetime of c
 BARON-Sylvia. Died at her home on January 4, after a courageous and graceful battle with caner. Beloved wife of the late Sydney, loving mother of Barbara (and Michael Balsam), Eric and Lois, Richard and Natalie, Daniel and her devoted caregiver, Donna. Sylvia was the adored and adoring gran
 BROWN-Marion J. On December 29, 2001. Beloved wife of Bernard. Devoted mother of Diane and Fred Robison, Barry and Ilene and Steven and Deborah. Cherished grandmother of Matthew, Jennifer, Heather and Jake. Services were held Monday, December 31, 2001. In lieu of flowers, donations should b
 COLVIN-Elinor. On Sunday, December 30, 2001. Born on February 24, 1944. Beloved wife of Stephen B. Colvin, M.D., devoted, loving & caring mother of Laurel Tanier, RN, NP, and Heather Colvin, M.D., cherished grandmother of Julia, beloved sister of Arlene Cheiken and daughter of the late Naom
 HARDEN-Dr. Jean. Died of cancer January 2, 2002, at Scripps Memorial Hospital, La Jolla. Memorial services for Dr. Harden will be held on Monday, January 7, at Mary Star of the Sea Catholic Church, 7727 Girard Ave., La Jolla, at 3:00P.M. Dr. Harden was a native of Rochester, NY. She began h
 KERLIN-Sarah. The faculty and staff of the Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain at Columbia University mourn the loss of a distinguished benefactor and loyal friend. We extend our deepest sympathy to Gilbert Kerlin, her devoted husband, her beloved children
 LATHAM-Eunice Stunkard. Age 78, on Christmas Day at her home in Riverdale, NY. In a varied and accomplished life, she graduated from Wellesley College in 1945 and went on to work with displaced people after World War II with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, and w
 OTTEN-Mildred Berney. We mourn the passing of Mildred Otten of Teaneck, NJ. Beloved mother, grandmother, aunt, great-aunt, patron, trustee, benefactor, good friend and neighbor who touched so many. She will be missed by us all. The Otten Family, Bethel, Maine.       
 PECK-Susan L. On January 1, 2002, in Sarasota, Florida, at age 79. Beloved mother of Patty Nocella, Louis Peck, Nora Peck and Amelia Peck Altshuler, devoted mother-in-law of Michael Altshuler, Raymond Nocella and Nancy Schwerzler, and loving grandmother to Justin, Jamie, Anni and Alice. She
 PETERKIN-Katharine Urban. Of Darien, CT, died at her home on January 3, 2002. She was 82. Mrs. Peterkin had been involved in local activities such as the Yellow Balloon and Tots and Teens consignment shops, the Darien/New Canaan Smith Club, the Junior League, and New York City's Foreign Pol
 RAMSEY-Wanda. On December 31. Survived by her loving husband, Robert, sister, Iza, and brother, Alain. Beloved mother of Gregory and Katia. Grandmother of Georgia and Claire, mother-inlaw of Howard. Aunt of Daphne, Barbara, Patrick and Nicholas. Loved by many friends & family. Service to be
 RUBINSTEIN-Aniela (Nela). Died peacefully at her home in NY on December 31, aged 93. Our beloved mother will be missed by all of us; her children, Eva, Paul, Alina and John Rubinstein (Jane Lanier), her grandchildren Amy and David (Kristy Wiberg) Coffin, Jason (Amy Fransetic), Jessica, Mich
 SCHAFFNER-Perdita Macpherson. Died at her home in East Hampton, NY, on December 26, at the age of 82. She was a writer, a philanthropist, an OSS member in London during WWII, and a friend and correspondent to many throughout the US and Europe. Daughter of the Imagist poet Hilda Doolittle (H
 SENDER-Blanka, M.D. On January 3, 2002 at the age of 91. Born in Poland, she found refuge and a new life in New York City in 1943; most of her family perished in the Holocaust. Beloved wife of the late Ivor. Much loved mother of Henriette (Henny) Sender, Rachelle (Shelly) Sender and her par
 WISE-Anna. In her 104th year. Devoted mother of Dr. Burton and Myra. Cherished grandmother of Karen Wise, Carla Wise and Mark Van Steeter, Laura and Joshua Gutwill-Wise. Loving great grandmother of Lia and Susanna. Loving friend of caretaker Leca Hibbert. Remembered with admiration and love
 WYMAN - Elizabeth Minnerly ''Betsy.'' Of Savannah, GA, died January 4, 2002, age 70, after a long illness. Loving wife, mother, friend. She is survived by her husband Thomas Hunt Wyman; a daughter Elizabeth Wyman Cordel; six sons, Winthrop Knowlton Jr., Christopher Knowlton, Oliver Knowlton
 Barbara Barker, a dance historian focusing on American classical ballet and dance in popular culture and the organizer of a major attempt to document the choreography of Agnes de Mille, died Thursday at her home in Sioux City, Iowa. She was 63. The cause was breast cancer, said her 
 Beatrice Seckler, a lead dancer with Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman in the 1930's and early 40's and a longtime teacher of the Humphrey-Weidman modern-dance technique, died on Dec. 28 at the Actors' Fund Residence in Englewood, N.J. She was 91. Born in Brooklyn, Ms. Seckler stud
 Margaret Loeb Kempner, a philanthropist whose special concerns included the well-being of children, families with children and the elderly, died on Dec. 31 at her home in Purchase, N.Y. She was 102. In 1999, when Mrs. Kempner had her 100th birthday, she was made an honorary director
 FAGAN-Lois. Of Park Avenue South, Dec. 26, 2001. Daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Arthur L. Fagan of Englewood, NJ. Mr. Fagan was publisher of the Jersey Observer. Miss Fagan received a BA from Manhattanville College, and a MS in Library Service from Columbia U. She was a librarian at the 
 RESNIK-Ruth H. On December 31, 2001, in Brooklyn, NY. Widow of the late Dr. Ernest Resnik, daughter of the late Rose and Samuel Duberstein, sister of the late Norman Duberstein. Survived by her brother Abner Duberstein, his wife and children, Frances, Ronald and David; by her niece, Ellen N
 RHEINFELD-Libbie. On January 6, 2002. Dearest wife of the late Paul, cherished mother of Marc, Cissy, and Maggie. She will be missed by her beloved grandchildren Kate, Anna, and Max. Private graveside service.       
 SENDER-Blanka, M.D. On January 3, 2002 at the age of 91. Born in Poland, she found refuge and a new life in New York City in 1943; most of her family perished in the Holocaust. Beloved wife of the late Ivor. Much loved mother of Henriette (Henny) Sender, Rachelle (Shelly) Sender and her par
 SPAR-Eveline. 86, died peacefully in her sleep at home January 4, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Marc Spar. Beloved mother of Carol, grandmother of Jennifer, mother-in-law of Howard and Kathryne, dear friend of Max and Gary. In lieu of flowers donations to Vitas Hospice.       
 BERKOWITZ-Beatrice. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Beatrice Berkowitz, beloved mother of David P. Berkowitz. David and his wife, Nancy, are deeply committed to UJA-Federation's Solelim Fund. David is a dedicated leader of our W
 EINSIEDLER-Samuel. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Pepi Frenkel upon the loss of her brother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 LANG-Margaret Altschul. Of New York City. Died peacefully, January 4th, in Key West, at age 86. She was born on November 4, 1915 to Helen Goodhart & Frank Altschul. After attending Bennington College, she worked as a reporter for the Journal American Newspaper in New York City. During this 
 MALETZ-Herbert N., On January 6, 2002, The Honorable Herbert N. Loving husband of Catherine L. Maletz. Devoted father of the late David M. Maletz. Cherished grandfather of Catherine M. Snyder and Daniel N. Maletz. Beloved fatherin-law of Cathy Maletz Cope and her husband, Wayne G. Brother o
 MARTIN-Ilse. Died January 7, 2002. Born Chemnitz, Germany March 1, 1911. Cherished aunt of Gudrun (Goodie) Frutkin and Zita Gurrier; beloved great aunt of Andrew Frutkin, Tanya Dean, Mark Gurrier and Heidi Bidwell; greatgreat aunt of Nicole and Erin Gurrier, and Holly and Shannon Bidwell, a
 MARTIN-Jane Kennedy. On Dec. 30, 2001. Beloved mother of five, grandmother of seventeen. Kind, caring, creative, passionate and more. In her 75 years, she never strayed far from New York. She attended the American Academy of Dramatic Arts and worked for Time-Life, Inc. We love you and miss 
 MARTIN-Yan-Kit So. Author and expert on Chinese cooking, died December 22, in London. She was credited with introducing the West to Chinese cuisine as haute-cuisine at a time when it was not regarded so. She was married to the late Briton, Martin Jr, of Philadelphia and Waterford, CT. She i
 MILLER-Gloria, 79. Died on Jan. 2, 2002. Born in Riverdale, predeceased by her sister Madelon Wald, parents Madelon & Daniel Sullivan and husband, Richard Miller. Survived by her children, Judith, Richard, Kevin & Randall Rogers and eight grandchildren. Donations to Parker Family Clinic, Bo
 PETERKIN-Katharine Urban. Of Darien, Connecticut, died at her home on January 3rd, 2002. She was 82. Mrs. Peterkin was born in Buffalo, New York on May 17, 1919, to the late Florence Zeller Urban and George P. Urban. Her father was head of Buffalo's George Urban Milling Company, as was his 
 SCHNEIDER-Lila. On January 5, 2002. Beloved mother of Daniel & Caroline. Adored grandmother of Ethan and Nicholas. Loving daughter of Ida. Cherished sister of Helen and brother-in-law Jack. Aunt of Paul, Bill and the late Andrew. Also survived by many wonderful friends. We will miss her dea
 SINKMAN-Ida. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services notes with great sadness the death of Ida Sinkman. Ida gave generously of her time and wisdom to improve the lives of people in need. A court worker and Divisional Committee member for Adult M
 WILLARD-Eugenia. The Board of Directors, Staff and neighbors of Hamilton Madison Settlement House, located in The Two Bridge/ Chinatown community in Manhattan, mourn the loss of Eugenia Willard, a Board Member of The Settlement House since 1941. She was a Past President, Chairperson, and a 
 HALL-Hana Hermann Heller. May 16, 1920-January 6, 2002. wife of the late Dr. Herbert H. Hall, mother of Danita and Suzanne, mother-in-law of Jim, grandmother of Alexandra. With great sadness we mourn her death.       
 RAYMOND-Sandra J. On December 15, 2001 at her home in Mill Valley, CA. Wife of Nicholas; mother of Sydney A. and Allen B.; grandmother of Andrew, Trevor and Samuel. A memorial service will be at 2:00 P.M., on Sunday, January 20, 2002 at the Church of Our Saviour, 10 Old Mill Valley. Donatio
 REILLY-Dean Stedman (Dini). Of Greenwich, CT & Vero Beach, FL at 75 after a gallant battle with pancreatic cancer. Surviving are her adoring husband of 50 years Gerald D; beloved sons Mark S. of New York, Craig C. of McLean, VA, Kent D. of East Norwalk, CT; beloved daughters Dean V. of Gree
 SCHLESINGER-Mary Eddy. Of Lakeville, CT, and Martha's Vineyard, MA, died on January 4th. She was 85. She was the wife of the late Dr. Edward B. Schlesinger. Born in Newington, CT, she graduated from the Oxford-Kingswood School and Smith College, Class of 1938. She was a former resident of D
 AGIN-Elaine. The Executive Board, Board of Trustees and Congregation of the Free Synagogue of Flushing mourn the passing of Elaine Agin on Tuesday, January 8, 2002. Beloved wife of our Rabbi Emeritus Dr. Charles G. Agin, mother of Adele, Deborah Shine (Richard) and Susan. Loving grandmother
 CONDLIFFE-Jane R., 84, of Riverdale, the Bronx, and Martha's Vineyard, died at home on January 9, 2002. The daughter of the late Arthur J. and Grace Ellinger Rosenthal, she attended the Lincoln School, Rosemarie Hall, Smith College (Class of 1940) and the Columbia University School of Socia
 FOWLER-Phyllis Birrell Franke. Died Jan. 8, 2002. She graduated from Wells College, Aurora, NY and received her MSW from NYU, School of Social Work. She married a Navy pilot, Harding Hall Fowler in 1943. He died in 1985. They resided in Dobbs Ferry, NY, Troy, NY, Larchmont, NY and Tega Cay,
 GRAY-Melissa McCollom. An advocate for children and reading, died Tuesday at Morristown Memorial Hospital after a long and valiant struggle with breast cancer. She was 46. Mrs. Gray was born in Ridgewood and grew up there and in Mountaintop, PA. She subsequently lived in Boston, MA and Seac
 KENNEY-Jeanne. On January 8th, 2002 after her courageous battle. She was a lifelong resident of Inwood/Good Shepherd Parish. Jeanne was the inspiration and strength for her beloved daughters, Patricia Fallon and Jeanne Marie Dillman. Loving sister of Mary & Robert. Cherished sisterin-law of
 LANG-Margaret Altschul. Of New York City. Died peacefully, January 4th, in Key West, at age 86. She was born on November 4, 1915 to Helen Goodhart & Frank Altschul. After attending Bennington College, she worked as a reporter for the Journal American Newspaper in New York City. During this 
 SLOYAN-Anna M. Died aged 100 at her home in Hamilton Square, NJ, January 7. She was predeceased by her husbands David Scheideler and Jerome Sloyan, whose children Virginia Sloyan, Sister Stephanie Sloyan, R.S.M. and the Reverend Gerard Sloyan who found in her a loving mother. She was also p
 WEINSTEIN-Helen, 84. On January 8, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Carolyne Malkin and Robert Winston, mother-in-law of Milton Malkin. The best Nana of Deb and Lisa Malkin and Derek Winston. She lived her life with strength, love, compassion and a good sense of humo
 WHITE-Aida Rovetti, 104. Of Waterford, CT, died on January 8th, in New London, CT. She was a founding trustee of the Eugene O'Neill Memorial Theatre Center in Waterford. Mother of George C. and Nelson H. White. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on Saturday at 10 AM in St. Joseph Churc
 Dr. Sheila Sherlock, one of the world's leading authorities on liver disease and a pioneer in the science of hepatology, died on Dec. 30 at her home in London. She was 83. Her classic reference work, ''Diseases of the Liver and Biliary System'' (Blackwell Science, 1955), now in its 
 DEUEL-Cindy Ann, 28. Of Brooklyn, died September 11 in WTC. Survived by her loving husband Victorio Tomas Pons, brothers Richard and Joseph, father Joseph & mother Patricia Kocian. Burial will take place 10 A.M. on Saturday at Cedar Lawn Cemetery in Paterson, NJ.       
 FLEISCHNER-Hannah, 87, of Boca Raton, passed away January 7, 2002. She is survived by her stepchildren, Lenny (Jayne) and Alice (Harvey) Kerner, five step-grandchildren and eight step-greatgrandchildren. Graveside service Sunday, 11:00 AM, Montefiore Cemetery, Queens, NY. Call Eternal Light
 FRIEDMAN-Professor Irene S. Of Miami Beach, formerly of New York City, passed away Dec. 31, 2001. Beloved wife of the late A. Benjamin Friedman, attorney. Russian born, graduated Columbia University. Professor at CUNY, Director of Council of Higher Educational Institutions. Noted sculptor. 
 GOSSNER-Simone. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital and Weill Medical College of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and generous benefactor, Simone Gossner. She was a longtime member of the NewYork Weill Cornell Council and an enthu
 HALL-Margaret Cramer Coxhead. Of Dover, MA, died January 3rd. Born in 1936 to Stuart P. and Margaret D. Coxhead of Llewellyn Park, West Orange, NJ. A graduate of the Dobbs School and Mt Holyoke College, she leaves behind many relatives and friends including siblings, sons and granddaughters
 KOREY-Esther. B'nai B'rith International mourns the loss of Esther Korey after a long illness. She was the beloved wife of William Korey, mother of two daughters, and grandmother of two. Involved with and devoted to B'nai B'rith and her husband's efforts combatting Soviet Anti-Semitism and 
 LANDAU-Marianne. December 31, 2001. Escaping Nazi Germany, she found profession and family in New York. Wife of Herbie, mother of Pamela, mourner for both, she leaves vivid memories to grandson Julian; cousins Herbert, Robert, and their families; niece Deborah; cousin and friend Gaby; and m
 LYNCH-Eleanor D., (nee Lettieri). Died January 9, in Venice, FL at age 78. She was born in Jersey City, New Jersey and moved to the Venice area from Oradell, NJ in 1981. Eleanor was the fourth of 12 Lettieri children. Her husband, James F. Lynch, who was a copy editor for the New York Times
 RYAN-Mary A. On January 9, 2002. Associated with The Hospital for Special Surgery for over 40 years. Calling hours at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St., Friday, 3-5 and 7-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday, 10AM, Church of Saint Lawrence O'Toole, Brewster, N.Y. 
 SAMBER-Hannah Fleischner, 87, of Boca Raton, passed away January 7, 2002. She is survived by her beloved sons, Richard (Gail) and Kenneth (Florence), loving grandchildren, Mark (Kristin), Andrea, David (Elizabeth) and Keith. Cherished great-granddaughters, Betsy and Bailey. Graveside servic
 SANDERS-Ruth, 89. Of New York and Hallandale, FL. passed away January 8, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Honorable Milton Sanders and sister of the late Honorable Birdie Amsterdam. Loving mother of Elaine Brodsky, Alison (Dr. Alan) Lichstrahl. Cherished grandmother of five. Adored greatgrand
 SINGER-Vivian B. Of Rego Park, NY died in her home on January 9, 2002 after battling a long illness with leukemia. Born in 1924, Vivian was a devoted wife to her husband Eugene, a caring mother to her family and a giving and sharing woman to her friends and community. A memorial service wil
 SLOYAN-Anna M. Died aged 100 at her home in Hamilton Square, NJ, January 7. She was predeceased by her husbands David Scheideler and Jerome Sloyan, whose children Virginia Sloyan, Sister Stephanie Sloyan, R.S.M. and the Reverend Gerard Sloyan who found in her a loving mother. She was also p
 WATERS-Elizabeth Udella Dudley. Age 89 and a longtime resident of Southbury, CT, died on Jan. 5, 2002, at Danbury Hospital. A ninth-generation descendant of William Dudley and Jane Lutman, who settled in 1639 in Guilford, CT, Mrs. Waters is survived by her brother, George Allen Dudley of Re
 Mari Kajiwara, an American modern dancer of stunning quality who mesmerized audiences as a leading member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Ohad Naharin Dance Company and the Batsheva Dance Company of Israel, died on Dec. 25 in Tel Aviv. She was 50 and had lived in Tel Aviv sin
 BARTOLOMEO-Emily. Of Eastchester, New York: formerly of The Bronx. Born on July 8, 1924; died on January 10, 2002. Beloved wife of the late John. Devoted mother of John, Evelyn and Charles and mother-in-law of Rosemary. Cherished grandmother of Amelia and Grace. Devoted sister of Louise Den
 COOPERMAN-Adelaide Kramer, 83. Of Margate, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, passed away January 9, 2002 in Forida. Adelaide was a founding teacher of Sheepshead Bay High School where she taught for 16 years. She is survived by three loving children, Lawrence, Frederic, and Nancy; five devoted 
 GORDON-Gertrude, 89. Of Flushing, Queens. She was beloved by her children, Stanley and Carol, and adored by her grandchildren, Michael and Emily. Services will be held Sunday, 11 AM, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st and Amsterdam Avenue in Manhattan.       
 SINGER-Vivian B. Of Rego Park, NY died in her home on January 9, 2002 after battling a long illness with leukemia. Born in 1924, Vivian was a devoted wife to her husband Eugene, a caring mother to her family and a giving and sharing woman to her friends and community. A memorial service wil
 BERLIN-Cere Kay. A New York City resident, unexpectedly died in a drowning accident in St. Croix, V.I., on December 27, 2001. Cere is survived by her sister Susan Helm, her best friend and husband of many years Mohamed Aala. A private memorial is scheduled for Saturday, January 19. In lieu 
 CHABRIER-Marie Anne, ''Amie,'' (Smith), 79, of NYC and Litchfield, CT, died in Litchfield December 20. Daughter of Leonard B. Smith of NYC and Simone Alibert of Bordeaux, France, she was educated at the Cours St. Seurin in Bordeaux, Miss Hewitt's Classes in NY, and Bryn Mawr College. For 17
 DOCKRY-John James. Practicing attorney criminal defense field. Survived by a cherished sister, Margaret Culotta of Washington, D.C, her husband and children. Memorial service to be announced at a later date.       
 DUNNING - Mary Margaret Bourne. Died January 12, 2002, at home in Manhattan after a long illness. Born July 26, 1911, and formerly of Decatur, IL, she was the beloved wife of the late James Dorr Dunning Sr., mother of James Jr. Cherished grandmother of James III and David, all of New York C
 KAPLAN-Rena Friedlander, 87. Died December 22 in her home in Merrick, NY. A former popular teacher in North Merrick, an active member of Temple Beth Am, and a volunteer court advocate for battered women. Her two daughters, Hoda & Laura Kaplan, survive her. Donations may be sent to: Hospice 
 KENNEDY-Mary. The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale notes with sadness the passing of Mary Kennedy, mother of our dear friend and colleague, Ginny Maar. Mary led a full & wonderful life and was blessed with loving children, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. We extend our condolences
 MIDGETTE-Mary B. 92, died peacefully at home on January 11. Born July 16, 1909, she graduated from Smith (Phi Beta Kappa) in 1931 and worked for the New York State Dept. of Mental Health. She married Ernst L. Midgette, later professor of engineering at St. John's and Brooklyn Polytechnic. A
 MURPHY-Mary Ellen (Mickey) Green. 84, retired journalist, died January 10, at Long Island College Hospital after a brief illness. Wife of the late Mark Murphy, mother of Timothy Murphy and Sarah Murphy Proudlock, grandmother of Robin, Samantha, Mark, Lucero, Lee and great-grandmother of Jus
 REILLY-Dean Stedman (Dini). Of Greenwich, CT & Vero Beach, FL at 75 after a gallant battle with pancreatic cancer. Surviving are her adoring husband of 50 years Gerald D; beloved sons Mark S. of New York, Craig C. of McLean, VA, Kent D. of East Norwalk, CT; beloved daughters Dean V. of Gree
 SCHEININGER-Jeannette G. Loving wife of Allan and mother of Marilyn. Former owner of Kid Stuff, Riverhead, NY. Formerly of The Fountains, FL and Leisure World, NJ. We mourn her passing.       
 ZUCKER-METZGER-Pauline. Of New York, NY, on January 12, 2002, at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Zucker and the late Morris Metzger. Cherished mother of Leonard, Berton and Barbara Treitel and son-in-law Rudy. Loving grandma to Michael, Caren, Michelle, Cherie, Andrew, Jonathan and 
 Jane Montant, a former editor in chief of Gourmet magazine who prized passionate writing, died on Jan. 1 in her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 85. She had Parkinson's disease, emphysema and liver cancer, her son, Jon Carson of Boston, said. She was editor 
 BEALS-Julia. Born in Boston, MA, and currently a resident of New York City and Ipswich, MA, died unexpectedly on Monday evening, January 7, 2002. She graduated from the Winsor School in 1952 and attended the New England Conservatory of Music Dance Program and completed the two-year acting c
 DUNNING - Mary Margaret Bourne. Died January 12, 2002, at home in Manhattan after a long illness. Born July 26, 1911, and formerly of Decatur, IL, she was the beloved wife of the late James Dorr Dunning Sr., mother of James Jr. Cherished grandmother of James III and David, all of New York C
 GELEFSKY-Ernestine Odenheimer. On January 12, 2002. Devoted mother of Maralyn Gelefsky and Gary Gaylen. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Proud grandmother of Marc Gelefsky, and Remy. Caring sister of the late Emily Roth, stepsister of the late Monroe and Fred Odenheimer. Ernie lived life to
 KENNEDY-Christine. January 9, 2002. Gifted spiritual counselor and psychic who indelibly touched all she met. Beloved friend of Stephen and Graciela LeBow, Godmother to Adam. We mourn but her spirit and love will go on forever. Funeral Mass at St. Joan of Arc Church, 83rd St. and 35th Ave.,
 KENNEDY-Mary. The partners and staff of Loeb & Troper mourn the passing of Mary Kennedy, mother of our partner, Ginny Maar. May her family be comforted by the wonderful memories of the loving relationship they had with their mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. We extend our deepest s
 NEMETI-Elsie. Died suddenly, peacefully in her home on January 10. Beloved wife of the late Laszlo. Loving mother of Andrei, adoring grandmother of Annabel, treasured friend of many. Courageous, fiercely independent, eternally youthful, passionate music lover and pianist, artist, voracious 
 NOVICK-Elsie L. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member and benefactor of education Elsie L. Novick, beloved wife of the late Eli. Deepest sympathy to her nephew and niece Charles and Fran Lehrhaupt and the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President 
 BARROW - Henny Henriette. Daughter of Leon Ringer of Antwerp, Belgium passed away on January 1, 2002. She fled the Nazi Holocaust escaping through the south of France in 1942, spending the remainder of the war in Cuba, finally entering the United States in 1947. Always interested in teachin
 BARSKY-STEINER-Fay. Age 83. Longtime resident of Delray Beach, FL. Passed away peacefully on January 13, 2002. Predeceased by Charles Steiner, loving first husband for 35 years, and by second husband Louis Barsky. Cherished mother of Barry and Richard Steiner and daughters-inlaw Marilyn and
 DUNNING - Mary Margaret Bourne. Died January 12, 2002, at home in Manhattan after a long illness. Born July 26, 1911, and formerly of Decatur, IL, she was the beloved wife of the late James Dorr Dunning Sr., mother of James Jr. Cherished grandmother of James III and David, all of New York C
 FELDMAN-Helen G. At age 94. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Harry. Loving mother of Joan Glance and Steven Feldman. Cherished aunt. She was a devoted NYC schoolteacher, an inspiration to many and will be missed by all who knew her. Services Tuesday 11:45AM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55
 FORBES-Demetra. On January 12, 2002. Wife of the late John G. Forbes, mother of John Forbes, grandmother of Emily and Adam, sister of Mary Callas. She will be deeply missed by all who knew & loved her. Services Wednesday, January 16 at 11 AM at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Ma
 GREENBAUM-Pauline, 102. January 12, 2002. We mourn the loss of our beloved Aunt Paulie, whose life was spent in service to God and her fellow human beings. Her vibrant optimism and joyous personality will be an inspiration to us all. Gloria, Mindy, Jean, and her many adoring nieces and neph
 IMBERMAN-Beatrice, on January 13, 2002. Beloved wife of Benson. Loving mother of Ellen Israel (Robert), Fred Imberman (Marcie), and Leni Rabinowitz (Leonard). Adored grandmother of Amy, Laurie, Carrie, Matthew, Daniel and Debra. Beatrice, a woman of great beauty, grace and style will always
 LOTOCKI de VELIGOST-Brigitte. 7 April 1919 to 10 January 2002. After a lengthy illness, our beloved Brigitte Lotocki de Veligost has departed this earth, but her spirit lives. She is predeceased by her husband, Borys, and her daughter, Marina. She is survived by her son, Alexander; daughter
 OLDERMAN-Edith (nee Goldsmith), died on January 10th, 2002. She will be missed by daughters, Ruth Deutsch & Natalie Kartman, grandchildren, Lauren Deutsch, Robin Herman, Naomi Berkowitz, Lynn Penland, 6 great-grandchildren, brother, Arthur Goldsmith, sister, Florence Kahn, and many nieces a
 PAUL-Harriet (nee Gotthelf). 1936-2002. Passed away suddenly on Jan. 12, 2002. Born and raised in New Rochelle, NY. Graduate of Boston University. Beloved wife of Marvin Paul, mother of Nina Paul, Caryn and Sam Kasmanoff, David and Joshua Paul. Grandmother to Nathan, Noah, & Anna Kasmanoff,
 SCHWARTZBERG-Zelda. Of Ardsley on January 13, 2002. Beloved mother and grandmother. She came to New York from Glasgow, Scotland in 1946. Zelda was a real estate executive in N.Y.C. for many years. Funeral is today at 1 PM, Edwards-Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Avenue (exit 17 Saw Mill), D
 Bibi Osterwald, an actress in theater, television and films, died on Jan. 2 in Burbank, Calif. She was 83 and lived in Burbank. Ms. Osterwald appeared in Broadway shows that included the original production of ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes,'' ''Bus Stop'' ''Look Homeward, Angel'' and '
 ARONS-Sarah. At age 85. Beloved wife of the late Saul (Charles). Devoted mother of Rosette, Madeleine and Elliot. Cherished grandmother of Alison, Jonathan, Lauren, Rachel & Emily. Services Thursday 12 noon at RiversideNassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. AR
 BERKELL-Sylvia, 88 years old. Died on January 14, 2002, after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Devoted mother of Arthur. Cherished grandmother of Kelly and Jacqueline. She was Chairman of the Board of Curtains & Home. Services, Friday, 1 PM, at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chap
 DUNNING - Mary Margaret Bourne. Died January 12, 2002, at home in Manhattan after a long illness. Born July 26, 1911, and formerly of Decatur, IL, she was the beloved wife of the late James Dorr Dunning Sr., mother of James Jr. Cherished grandmother of James III and David, all of New York C
 EPSTEIN-David Mayer. Of Lexington, MA January 15, 2002. Husband of Anne M. Epstein (Merrick), father of Eve M. Epstein-Burian and her husband, Ronald, of Portland, OR and Beth S. Epstein-Hounza and her husband, Max, of Paris, France. Brother of Carolyn Koistinen of Northridge, CA. Grandfath
 GOODMAN-Selma. On January 14, 2002. Beloved wife of Irving. Loving mother of Hillary & Stacey and her husband Eric. Devoted grandmother of Brette & Joshua. Dear sister of Bea. Services Thursday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. We will miss you.       
 GREENBLATT-Doris. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to her entire family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 KAHN-Anne L. The Sunshine Group extends its deepest sympathy to our esteemed colleague Marjorie Reed Gordon upon the death of her dear mother and best friend.       
 PAUL-Harriet (nee Gotthelf). 1936-2002. Passed away suddenly on Jan. 12, 2002. Born and raised in New Rochelle, NY. Graduate of Boston University. Beloved wife of Marvin Paul, mother of Nina Paul, Caryn and Sam Kasmanoff, David and Joshua Paul. Grandmother to Nathan, Noah, & Anna Kasmanoff,
 SCHNEIDER-Lorraine, 67. On January 12, 2002 after a heroic struggle. An inspiration to so many, she will be missed for her vitality, wit, strength, grace and wisdom. Devoted wife of the late Edward L. Schneider and sister to Irwin Levy. Treasured mother to Maria, Peggy, Katy, Andrew, Alma, 
 BARNETT-Matilda. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) deeply mourn the loss of Matilda Barnett of Los Angeles, CA, a generous and devoted ATS supporter. In the memory of her late husband, Gabriel, and her late son, Brian Morris, Mrs. Barnett established the B
 DUNNING - Mary Margaret Bourne. Died January 12, 2002, at home in Manhattan after a long illness. Born July 26, 1911, and formerly of Decatur, IL, she was the beloved wife of the late James Dorr Dunning Sr., mother of James Jr. Cherished grandmother of James III and David, all of New York C
 MAYER-Arlene (nee Simon), 56 years young, died January 16, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Kurt Mayer. Devoted mother of Amanda. Loving stepmother of Steven and Susan. Also survived by her mother Sally Simon, sister Gail Raifman, brother-in-law Jerome Raifman, sister-in-law Naomi Mayer and b
 SCHNEIDER-Leah. The Board of Directors, Staff and Residents of the West Side Federation For Senior & Supportive Housing (WSFSSH) mourn the death of our beloved founding Board member and vice-president Leah Schneider. Leah was a valiant woman who lived a long and good life filled with acts o
 SCHNEIDER-Lorraine. The members of the East Midtown Coalition for Sensible Development express sorrow on the death of Lorraine Schneider. We appreciated Lorraine's significant contributions to EMCSD, especially as Corresponding Secretary. Lorraine devoted her life to the well-being of her c
 BACAL-Vera Bacal Koenig. Died of natural causes on January 15, 2002, at age 89. Even though Vera had Alzheimer's and was confined to a wheelchair, she said only a year ago, ''There are still three things I want to do. #       
 BLODGETT-Merril Beck. On January 16, 2002. Beloved wife of Herbert. Devoted daughter of Esther and the late Ira Beck. Dear sister of Phyllis Beck Bloom. Cherished aunt of Michael & Sarah. Services Sunday, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in her name t
 DREIER-Catherine Green. Died in her sleep on January 17th, 2002. Beloved aunt of John Craig Green. Devoted companion of the late Alexander Dobkin. Dear friend of Margaret Bakhorie, Jonathan Anshel, Susan Gould, Helga Karlin, Lisa Karlin, Anita Francis, Lila Katz and Hassan. We cherish the m
 GEWIRTZ-Lola. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected member of the Queens, NY, and Connecticut Jewish communities, wife of the late Rabbi Jonas Gewirtz and beloved mother of Dorothy (and Julius) Berman and Dr. William (and Debbie) Gewirtz. Dorothy, vice chai
 HEIFERMAN-Celia. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the loss of Celia Heiferman, beloved wife of our former President Sol Heiferman z''l, former board member and beloved personality in her own right. Her devotion to family and community were exemplary
 HOWARD-Florence V. (nee Stanis), 93. Of New Hyde Park on January 17, 2002. She had been a member of Notre Dame Church and the Altar Rosary Society for over sixty years. Beloved wife of the late James, Sr. Dearest mother of James F. Howard and Rev. Theodore J. Howard, Pastor of St. Mark's Ca
 KRAMER-Dorothy. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its long standing member and extends heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Roselyn Kolodny, President       
 LARSSON-Lillebi. A native of Sweden, was a highly recognized flight attendant with both Pan Am and Delta Airlines. She died much too early of cancer on January 10, 2002. She was a fun-loving person and her laughter will be greatly missed. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, January
 MAYER-Arlene. An indomitable spirit whose warmth, sincerity and wisdom touched all who knew her. Truly, ''the wind beneath my wings.'' I loved you and shall miss you forever. Weezie       
 POOR-Anne. The Trustees and Governors of the Skowhegan School of Painting & Sculpture mark with sadness the loss of our friend, Anne Poor whose father, Henry Varnum Poor, was one of the School's Founders. We celebrate Anne's many achievements as an artist and will treasure the memory of her
 REILLY-Dean Stedman (Dini). Of Greenwich, CT & Vero Beach, FL at 75 after a gallant battle with pancreatic cancer. Surviving are her adoring husband of 50 years Gerald D; beloved sons Mark S. of New York, Craig C. of McLean, VA, Kent D. of East Norwalk, CT; beloved daughters Dean V. of Gree
 ROONEY-Catherine. Died January 17, 2002 of Darien, CT. Predeceased by her husband Joseph D. Rooney, Deputy Fire Chief, NYCFD, 13 Division.       
 WEINBERG-Silvia N. Of Forest Hills, NY, on January 16, 2002, age 90. Beloved wife of the late Irving, loving mother and mother-in-law of Emily and Henry Goldberger, and Eric Weinberg. Adored grandmother of Tanya Weinberg, and Ethan and Jesse Goldberger, and cherished sister of Ethel Schaefe
 Naomi Bliven, a writer at The New Yorker for more than 40 years, died on Monday in New York, where she lived. She was 76. She had lymphoma and had recently had a stroke. Ms. Bliven, who had been contributing to The New Yorker since the late 1950's and became a staff writer in 1961, 
 BLODGETT-Merril Beck. On January 16, 2002. Beloved wife of Herbert. Devoted daughter of Esther and the late Ira Beck. Dear sister of Phyllis Beck Bloom. Cherished aunt of Michael & Sarah. Services Sunday, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in her name t
 LEWIS-Carolyn B. The Board, members and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) mourn the passing of Carolyn B. Lewis, former Chair of the Board of the American Hospital Association and a longtime, passionate advocate for America's health care community. We extend our sin
 LIEBER-Winifred M. Age 82, passed away on January 17, 2002. Beloved daughter of the late Joseph & Marie Lieber. Cherished sister of the late Priscilla Lieber Kaufman. Survived by loving and loved sister Sylvia Lieber Kass and numerous nephews & nieces. Ms. Lieber was the medical librarian a
 McALLISTER-Katherine Percy. Of Greenwich, CT died January 16, 2002. Mrs. McAllister was born December 14, 1928, in New York, NY the daughter of the late Mr. Donald B. and Mrs. Dorothy R. Percy. She was raised in New York City, Manchester, MA and in Katonah, NY. She graduated from the Chapin
 NEMEROFF-Frances ''Birdie''. Died peacefully January 18, 2002 in Naples, Florida shortly before her 93rd birthday. She was predeceased by her husband Bernard G. Nemeroff and survived by her children Gladys Agell (Bertil), Susan Cohen, Michael Nemeroff (Sharon), Karen Cohn (Martin) and her e
 WOLLERSTEIN-Irene. On January 17, 2002. Beloved wife of Isidore. Loving mother of Alan, Roni and Marc. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Lisa, Nicole, Neil, Alison, Andrew and Marissa. Greatgrandmother of Cosette. Dear mother-in-law of Felicia and Janice. Service Sunday 10:00 AM at ''the Ri
 Anne Poor, an American artist who painted combat scenes in World War II and later concentrated on dreamlike landscapes, died in Nyack, N.Y., on Jan. 12. She was 84 and lived in Haverstraw, N.Y. A native of New York City, Ms. Poor studied at the Art Students League while in high scho
 COHN-Elaine M. Age 86, of Albany, NY, died Friday, January 18, 2002 at her home after a courageous battle with cancer. A warm, generous, exuberant and classy lady, she made life fun. We will miss her far more than any words can express. Born in NYC, she was the daughter of the late Dr. Leon
 COZINE-Kathryn, M.D. The Medical Board of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of our dear friend and colleague, Kathryn Cozine, M.D., Associate Clinical Professor of Anesthesiology at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. For the past sev
 DANENBERG-Natalie, 90, of New York City, on January 19, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Louis, much loved mother of Jacqueline Rado and Sandra McCormack, cherished grandmother of Ferne, Michael, Daniel and Jessie, and great-grandmother of Claudia. Further survived by her dear sister, Florenc
 EASLICK-Susan Bolles, 61. Of Washington, DC, Grosse Pointe Farms, MI, and Ridgewood, NJ. Died of cancer on January 16, 2002. Susan was the Administrative Director of Delta Kappa Epsilon Fraternity and the Development Director of its educational foundation, the Rampant Lion Foundation, which
 GEPNER-Isadore. We extend heartfelt sympathy to our esteemed teacher, Shirley Silverman Gepner on the passing of her beloved husband Isadore. Temple Sinai of Long Island Paula Winnig, Rabbi Dr. Richard Storm, President       
 GISH-Marguerite Drouin (nee Marguerite Eila Nevile Drouin a Paris le 20 Aout, 1930). Died January 15 at her home in Greenwich. The only child of Pierre Marcel Joseph Drouin and Betty Nevile Drouin, Margot spent her childhood in Morocco and France. She lived in St. Jean de Luz during the Ger
 HEIFERMAN-Celia nee Friedman. Died in her home January 16, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Solomon; cherished mother of Ruth Prenner and the late Esther (Cooky) Signet; treasured grandmother of Emily and Elizabeth Prenner and David and Michael Signet; adoring great-grandmother, and dear frie
 LERNER-Lillian. Beloved wife of David. Loving mother of Andrew and Dianne, and Jamie and Liz. Adored grandmother of Adam. We are grateful for the years we shared, the joys she knew and the memories she leaves.       
 PAUL-Harriet (nee Gotthelf). 1936-2002. Passed away suddenly on Jan. 12, 2002. Born and raised in New Rochelle, NY. Graduate of Boston University. Beloved wife of Marvin Paul, mother of Nina Paul, Caryn and Sam Kasmanoff, David and Joshua Paul. Grandmother to Nathan, Noah, & Anna Kasmanoff,
 SCHNEIDER-Leah. The Board of Directors and staff of the Manhattan Valley Development Corporation and Manhattan Valley Management Company Inc. mourn the recent passing of Ms. Schneider, long our Executive Director, inspirational leader and board Member. Over the past thirty years, Leah's dee
 BRUNO-Ida (nee Bruno). Of Tenafly, NJ, on January 19, 2002 (Lady Grand Cross, Holy Sepulche of Jerusalem). Beloved wife of Dr. Michael S. Bruno. Devoted mother of Lauretta J. Bruno, Pamela B. Williams and her husband Charles E. Willams and Michael S. Bruno Jr. and his wife Margaret Price Br
 DANENBERG-Natalie, 90, of New York City, on January 19, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Louis, much loved mother of Jacqueline Rado and Sandra McCormack, cherished grandmother of Ferne, Michael, Daniel and Jessie, and great-grandmother of Claudia. Further survived by her dear sister, Florenc
 FRINDEL-Helen. 73, of Aventura, FL, formerly of Hewlett, NY. Beloved wife of the late Edward Frindel. Loving mother of Neil and Ricki Frindel, Lili and Jeff Voldman, and Ben and Leslie Frindel. Adored grandmother of Jessica, Jeremy, Justin, Mandi, Scott and Samantha. Dear sister of Larry Fl
 WITTNER-Miriam. Died in her home on January 19, 2002. Devoted wife of the late Henry, mother of Loren and Derek, grandmother of Jenny, Liz and Lisa, step-grandmother of Chris and Andrew, great-grandmother of Nathaniel, Alexander and Mollie, mother-inlaw of Dianna and Kathryn. Private memori
 Charity Adams Earley, the commander of the only all-black Women's Army Corps unit to serve overseas during World War II, died on Jan. 13 in Dayton, Ohio, long her hometown. She was 83. At a time when a segregated military provided few opportunities for blacks, Charity Adams was one 
 Dr. Ruth Whittemore, a Yale professor who conducted groundbreaking research in pediatric cardiology based on data from clinics she founded in 1940's, died on Dec. 27 in North Branford, Conn. She was 84. In 1947, at the request of the federal Children's Bureau, Dr. Whittemore set up 
 DOMINGOS-Susana A. On January 18, 2002 at age 26. Survived by her parents, John and Fatima Domingos of NY, NJ and Portugal, by her brother, John, and by numerous relatives in NY, NJ, FL, Portugal and France, and by friends in NY and Boston. Family will receive friends on Wednesday, 2-9PM at
 HENDON-Judge Edith L. Of Mamaroneck, NY. Died January 21, 2002, at age 94. Born March 3, 1907 in Brooklyn to Samuel and Lillie (nee Brodsky) Leon. She graduated from Columbia University and Brooklyn Law School. Edith was a Judge in the NYC Court System for both family and civil courts. She 
 MAGNUS-Lewis. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Leah Frohlich upon the loss of her beloved father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 PULITZER-Margot. We extend our sincerest condolences to Golden Founders Marcus and Ann Rosenberg on the untimely and tragic loss of their beloved daughter. Everyone who had the good fortune to know Margot was blessed by her warmth, charm and everlasting smile. May the fond memories spent to
 SCHOSHEIM - FRIEDMAN - Pearl D., passed away January 21, 2002. Formerly of Great Neck, NY. Loving wife of Jack Friedman and the late Dr. Arnold M. Schosheim, MD. Adored mother of Dr. John & Joanne Schosheim and Dr. Peter & Elissa Schosheim. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer, Geoffrey, Alexa
 SOSIS-Muriel A. (nee Addis). A resident of the Bronx, on January 21, 2002 at age 86. A wonderfully giving and caring mother, grandmother, sister and friend. She was a gem. She cared deeply about her family and her fellow man. She loved classical music, reading, and collecting old jewelry. H
 SUSSMAN-Ilene. Along with the VIs parents at City and Country School, we are deeply saddened by the passing of our cherished friend Ilene. The times we shared as mothers and friends will always remind us of what a wonderful, inspiring woman she was. Her graciousness and spirit are enduring.
 WEINBERG-Sylvia N. Of Forest Hills, NY, on January 16, 2002, age 90. Beloved wife of the late Irving, loving mother and mother-in-law of Emily and Henry Goldberger, and Eric Weinberg. Adored grandmother of Tanya Weinberg, and Ethan and Jesse Goldberger, and cherished sister of Ethel Schaefe
 BRUNO-Ida. The Lenox Hill Hospital Alumni Association deeply mourns the passing of Mrs. Ida Bruno, beloved wife of Michael S. Bruno, MD, Director Emeritus of The Department of Medicine at Lenox Hill Hospital and former President of The Lenox Hill Hospital Alumni Association. Loving mother o
 GOLDSTEIN-Sylvia. Former Corporate Vice President of Boosey & Hawkes, distinguished attorney, uniquely gifted music publishing colleague, and champion of contemporary composers and their music. Sylvia's integrity, generosity, and personal warmth were hallmarks of her distinguished life and 
 GRAVITZ-Ruth. On January 22, 2002, at the age of 71. Beloved wife of David. Loving mother of Carla Freitag Hogan, Jayne Morrell, Rabbi Lisa Freitag-Keshet, Randy Gravitz, and Lisa Weber. Adoring grandmother of Kyle, Corinne, Stav, and Roe. Beloved sister of Dorothy Lager and Sheldon Shulman
 KORNREICH-Sonya. Died on January 18, 2002. Greatly loved wife of Melvin, mother of Robert, grandmother of Jennifer, Wade, and Stephen, sister of Beverly Garner, sister-in-law of David Garner. Passionately devoted to her extended family and friends. A dedicated public servant, she had a long
 RABINER-Samuel. At age 90. Loving husband of Fay Soloway Rabiner. Devoted father of Barbara Bergstein with her companion Orin Finkle, and Bruce and Mary Rabiner. Adored grandfather of Elizabeth and Rob Heller, Jordan and Paula Bergstein, Shauna and Zasha Crupnick, and Danielle and Yariv Kaf
 RAMSOY-Natalie Rogoff. On January 18, 2002. Born in Brooklyn, New York on August 25th, 1924. Beloved sister of Mortimer Rogoff and sister-in-law of Sheila Rogoff; loving aunt of Louisa Thompson, Alice Rubenstein, & Julia Rogoff, and great aunt of Alexa, Ellie & Andrew Rubenstein, and of Lis
 WEISS-Gustava, 91. On December 24, 2001. Widow of Edward Weiss, pianist, and mother of Angela Migliorini, Gustava Weiss (nee Kirchberg) had been a highly-acclaimed coloratura soprano. More recently she taught singing and was a judge for The International Vocal Competitions of The National A
 Peggy Lee, whose sultry singing style set standards for pop jazz sophistication for more than half a century, died on Monday night at her home in Los Angeles. She was 81. The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Nicki Lee Foster. Ms. Lee had surmounted many medical problems 
 HAKIM-Marie Assayas. Of Bronxville, New York died on Sunday, January 20th. She was 87. She was born in Cairo, Egypt and lived in the United States since 1949. She was the cherished mother of Mathilde Ohl, Joseph Hakim and Jacqueline Blair, beloved grandmother of Katherine Ohl, Patricia Pier
 HELPERN-Leona Ellis. Age 90, of Hewlett, died January 23, peacefully in her bed. Adored & devoted widow of Irving. Loving mother of David and Joan Helpern; Anne and Herbert Bookstein; and Robert and Jacqueline Helpern, all of New York. Proud grandmother of Lauren Helpern; Dr. Peter Bookstei
 MOORE-Marjorie Kenyon. Age 86, of Wake Robin in Shelburne, VT, longtime resident of Mt. Kisco, NY, January 16, 2002, in Williston, VT. She was born August 8, 1915, in East Hampton, L.I., NY, daughter of George Kenyon and Ruth Barker Fitzgerald. She graduated from Vassar College in 1937. She
 PATT-Brucha. Died January 23. Born Sheva Brucha Zalcman in Warsaw in 1915, she was a member of a generation of idealistic Jewish activists who believed that justice and peace are possible in a pluralistic society. She arrived in America in 1940 with her husband, Dr. Emanuel Patt, doctor, wr
 ROBINSON-Stancie W. Age 81, in NY. Widow of the late William E. Robinson. Dear friend to many. Active supporter of many charities. She will be sorely missed. No memorial service. Memorial contributions may be sent to the William E. Robinson Foundation, 255 W. 88th Street, 13A, NY, NY 10024.
 WEISS-Gustava, 91. On December 24, 2001. Widow of Edward Weiss, pianist, and mother of Angela Migliorini, Gustava Weiss (nee Kirchberg) had been a highly-acclaimed coloratura soprano. More recently she taught singing and was a judge for The International Vocal Competitions of The National A
 SCHLESINGER-Mary Eddy. A service to celebrate her life will be held at 1 PM, January 26, 2002, at The Congregational Church, Main Street/Route 44, Salisbury, CT. During the service, family and friends will be invited to share their memories. Please join the Schlesinger family after the serv
 Edith Bouvier Beale, once a successful model and aspiring actress who later lived a gothic life in Grey Gardens, a dilapidated 28-room house in East Hampton, N.Y., with her mother and dozens of cats, raccoons and opossums, was found dead in her small apartment in Bal Harbour, Fla., on Jan. 
 ANDERSON-Lorna McClenahan. Family and friends mourn the passing of Lorna Anderson, beloved daughter of Rachel Breck, sister of Leith Speiden and Doug McClenahan, aunt of five devoted nieces and nephews. She died on January 20, 2002 in her Connecticut home. At the time of her death, she was 
 BARON-Fannie. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board and staff of Peninsula Hospital Center are saddened by the passing of Fannie Baron, longtime Benefactor and mother of Selma Kaplan, Secretary and Officer of the Board of Directors. Sincere condolences are extended to the en
 DOMOWITZ-Muriel. Formerly of Jackson Heights and Staten Island, died on Jan. 12, 2002, in Suffern, NY. She is survived by her sons Evan Domowitz & Ted Domowitz and her brother Dr. Barry Karp. Mrs. Domowitz was born in 1929 in Brooklyn, the daughter of Sadie and Samuel Karp. She attended New
 GOLDSTEIN-Sylvia. A Board member of the American Music Center and a former corporate vice president of Boosey & Hawkes, died at her home on January 21, 2002. She was 82. Goldstein's career included the support and nurturing of generations of composers from Copland to Reich, and the mentorin
 HARRIS-Charlotte Acker. Cherished and adored wife of 54 years to Murray. Sweetest Mommy to Joy Harris and Stacey and Donald Novick. Precious Grandma to Michael and Joanna Novick. Loving sister to Stanley Acker. Services Friday, January 25, 11:30AM, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and
 SCHRAGER-Ingeborg, ''Inca'', age 80. Beloved wife of Leon. Devoted mother of Linda (Spencer) Cohen and Gene (Elizabeth). Cherished grandmother of Erin and Trevor. Her gusto and flair will be missed. Services today, 10 AM at ''Sinai Chapels'', 162-05 Horace Harding Expwy, Fresh Meadows, NY. 
 WILLINGER-Viola P. Age 95. Of New Rochelle, New York. Loving wife of the late Dr. Louis. Devoted mother of Blossom Miller, Lorraine Kolb, Larry, Warren and Lowell Willinger. Adored grandmother of 15 and great grandmother of 12. Past President, four terms, of the United Order of True Sisters
 ALESSANDRO-Jeanne P., age 51. Died yesterday at her home. Funeral mass will be held Monday, 9:30AM at St. Bartholomew's Church, East Brunswick, NJ. Visitors welcome at the Alessandro home, Saturday, 2-9PM, Sunday 16PM. The Jeanne P. Alessandro Baseball Scholarship Fund is being set up in he
 BARON-Fannie. For close to 80 years you were the matriarch of the NYC taxi business. You and your beloved husband Sol and your beloved son Milton worked side by side to build the company. Your strength, wisdom, tenacity, leadership and, of course, brilliant mind will be missed by all of us.
 BERLIN-Hilda. Born in Leeds, England in 1913, this vibrant woman came to America in the 1930's and spread her abundant cheer until her death on January 23, 2002. Our plucky Hillie showered us with her compassion, loyalty and love, and cooked her way into our hearts. She had a long and lovin
 NERKEN-Jean. Beloved wife of the late Albert. Devoted mother of Ruth, Sara and the late Ira. Dear sister of Carl and the late Florence. Loving grandmother of Samantha Clare Karpinsky. Services Sunday 10 AM at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, LI. In lieu of flowers contribut
 WIGGINS-Dorothy Mathis. Died January 24, 2002 in Vero Beach, FL. Formerly of Lyme, CT. Born in New York City, wife of the late Eugene Madison Wiggins, daughter of the late William and Sarah Mathis of New York City. Survived by her children, Gene Wiggins and wife Barbara of Lloyd Harbor, NY 
 AUER-Jean, ''Pancho'', (nee Patchett) of La Quinta, CA and Westhampton Beach, NY passed away on January 22, 2002 after a long battle with emphysema. Born in Preston, MD, Pancho became a nationally known photographic model in the 40's, 50's, and 60's gracing covers of more than 40 magazines 
 BARON-Fannie. Age 94. On January 21, 2002 in Hollywood, Florida. Devoted wife of the late Sol Baron. Mother of Selma and the late Milton. Grandmother of Allen, Lissy, Rachel and Howard. Greatgrandmother of Lauren, Phil, Meryl, B.J., Matthew and Michael. She was the matriarch of the family a
 BERLIN-Hilda. Born in Leeds, England in 1913, this vibrant woman came to America in the 1930's and spread her abundant cheer until her death on January 23, 2002. Our plucky Hillie showered us with her compassion, loyalty and love, and cooked her way into our hearts. She had a long and lovin
 BIERBACH-Ruth Street. Beloved and loving mother and best friend of Kaethe and devoted wife and best friend of the late Gerhard Paul. Born in South Hampton, NY, died in Mt. Kisco, NY. She was brilliant and funny, sweet and shy, a witty and endearing conversationalist and correspondent.      
 CUMMINS-May Lipton. Of Rockville, Maryland, formerly of New York City, on Saturday, January 5, 2002, at home. She is survived by her sisters Helen Gutterman, of Rockville and Evelyn Berger of Dallas and brother, Gerald Lipton of Spokane, Washington. She was predeceased by sister Estelle Gol
 FISCHER-Hilda S. On January 25, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Lester. Devoted mother of: Jerry and Rhoda, Stanley and Charlotte, Barbara and Ed Schwab, Harriet & Bill Englander. Loving grandmother and great-grandmother, she lived for a century. Service will be held Monday, January 28th at 
 FURSTENBERG - Anne Linda. January 23, 2002. Former Professor of Social Work, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Beloved partner of Barry Popkin, survived by children, Sarah and Ben Furstenberg, a stepson Matt Popkin and many others, she engaged the world fully, with all her se
 GEWIRTZ-Lola. Yeshiva University Women's Organization (YUWO) expresses sorrow upon the passing of Lola Gewirtz, founding president of the Fairfield-Bridgeport, Connecticut chapter and former member of the YUWO National Board. Heartfelt condolences to her daughter Dorothy Berman, member of t
 LEWIN-Gerda. Age 91, died peacefully on January 23, 2002. Wife of Gerhard, mother of Gabriela and Vivian, grandmother of Nicole, Alyssa and Meredith ''Puppell''. Contributions in her memory may be made to Department of Radiation Oncology, c/o Dr. Andrew Zablow, St. Barnabas Medical Center, 
 NERKEN-Jean. The Beth Israel Medical Center and Long Island College Hospital (LICH) communities join with the leadership of the hospitals' parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Jean Nerken, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Ru
 PATT-Brucha. The Workmen's Circle/Arbeter Ring mourns the passing of our longtime activist, Brucha Patt. A member of our organization for more than 40 years, her dedication and tireless work in Branch 137E, in WC Shule #       
 SOFRANSKI-Myra. A longtime Manhattan resident, died on Wednesday, January 16, 2002 in Taos, New Mexico. As a teenager, Myra emigrated from Warsaw, Poland to join her father Phillip Laskowski, a composer in the Jewish Theater. She married William Sofranski; they had a daughter Gayle and a st
 STIEFEL-Evelyn Necarsulmer. On January 14 of natural causes in her 94th year. Daughter of Edna and Henry (Harry) Necarsulmer. Survived by her cousin Henry Necarsulmer and pre-deceased by her husband Rudy. A graduate of the University of Wisconsin and the Columbia University masters program 
 WEINSTEIN-Tilla (nee Savanuck), 67, January 21, 2002. Generous, open-hearted, gloriously opinionated wife of Kive Weinstein, mother of David Klotz and Daniel Kael, stepmother of Ted Weinstein, Julia Wolfe, Jenny and Ross Hughes, grandmother of Braeden & Cole Hughes. Retired professor of mat
 GREENFIELD-Anna. 94, died peacefully on January 26, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Greenfield. Cherished mother of Jane Weltz. Loving mother-in-law of Richard Weltz. Grandmother of James Bloom and great-grandmother of Circe and Asa. Donations in her memory may be made to the Kateri 
 KAHN-Marion. On January 26, 2002, at age 97. Devoted mother of Lois Wallace. Beloved grandmother of George and his wife Caroline. Lifelong resident of New York, New York. Graduate of Barnard, Class of 1925. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St., Monday, Janu
 KNAPP-Martha Gratwick. A longtime resident of Darien, died Friday, January 25, in her home at Edgehill in Stamford, Connecticut. She was 88. She graduated from the Ethel Walker School, and, in 1937, from Smith College after a junior year at the Sorbonne. During WWII when her late husband, G
 MILLER-Barbara. Suddenly on January 26, 2002, died in Brooklyn, NY. Graduate of NYC's High School of Performing Arts and Columbia University. Playwright, editor, publisher, author, real estate sales representative. Beloved life partner of Donna Barnes. She is also survived by her sister Joy
 SCHAPIRA-Mary E. Died on January 26, 2002, at the age of 89. Gentle and empathetic, love for family defined her life.       
 STIEFEL-Evelyn Necarsulmer. On January 14 of natural causes in her 94th year. Daughter of Edna and Henry (Harry) Necarsulmer. Survived by her cousin Henry Necarsulmer and pre-deceased by her husband Rudy. A graduate of the University of Wisconsin and the Columbia University masters program 
 STOLPER-Barbara Gockley. On Sunday, January 27, 2002, after a long illness. She is survived by her husband, Max A. Stolper, of Alexandria, Virginia; her children Charles N. Stolper, of Concord, MA; James R. P. Stolper of North Hills, CA; Antonia E. Stolper, of Jackson Heights, NY; and Nicho
 Astrid Lindgren, the Swedish writer whose rollicking, anarchic books about Pippi Longstocking rattled some tradition-bound Swedes when they first appeared almost 60 years ago but came to captivate millions of children around the world, died yesterday at her home in Stockholm. She was 94.   
 ABOUCHAR-Beatriz Kessler on January 28, 2002 of Sag Harbor, NY. Formerly of Garden City, NY. After a long and courageous battle with leukemia, she never gave up faith and hope for an ultimate cure. Beloved wife of Edward. Loving mother of Beatrice Goldsmith (Eric) and Christine Lebowitz (Ma
 CLINESMITH-Jeannette. Our beloved mother passed into eternity on January 24, 2002. An artist and musician, she was a being of tremendous courage, conviction and resilience. As a single parent who endured the loss of her first born child, Gillian, she is survived by two sons, Khahim and Mali
 HEIFERMAN-Celia F. The Board of Trustees and Administration of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation are deeply saddened by the loss of Celia Heiferman. Celia's late husband, Solomon Heiferman, was a respected Trustee who served as Chairman of the Board from 1978 to 1981.
 HOCHMAN-Mildred, January 28. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Kenneth (Pamela) and Ruth Stearn (Alan). Adored grandmother of Peter (Caroline), Jeff, Seth and Kate. Cherished sister of Rose and Sylvia and the late Morris. She was much admired by all who knew her and will be
 KHOURY-Georgette. Of Purchase NY, on January 28, 2002 at the age of 74. Beloved wife of Thomas Khoury, loving mother of Paul, Pierre, Beatrice, May, Andre and Nabil, loving mother-in-law of Kathy, Fouad, Paule and Miriam, devoted grandmother of fifteen, predeceased by her daughter Pauline. 
 NERKEN-Jean. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society are deeply saddened by the passing of Jean Nerken, beloved wife of the late Albert Nerken. Together, the Nerkens reached the highest level of commitment to the ATS, the Technion and Israel, becoming Technion Guardia
 RILEY-Elizabeth M. The Trustees and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Library mourn the death of Elizabeth M. Riley, who died in New York on January 27, 2002. She was ninety-four years old. Liz, who had a distinguished career in publishing children's books, became a Fellow of the Library in 1955
 SCHWELL-Shirley. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our member, Steven Schwell. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 SELZNICK-Lillian (aka Lillian Kaltman). On January 28, 2002. Beloved wife of the late David Selznick. Loving sister of Grace Cohen. Cherished aunt and great aunt. Longtime counsel for Hadassah, New York City, NY. Her presense will be greatly missed by all who knew her. Funeral service 10 AM
 STERN-ROSS-Dorothy. Born in Melrose Park, Illinois. Passed away in New York on January 28, 2002 at the age of 82 from cancer. Raised in New York. A loyal and long-time employee of Petrie Stores, Dorothy worked for Milton Petrie for over fifty years. Cherished wife of Lee Ross. Beloved mothe
 Elizabeth Mildred Riley, a prominent children's book editor, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94 and lived on the Upper East Side. Her publishing career was spent at the Thomas Y. Crowell Company, now merged into HarperCollins. She joined the company in 1938, rose to se
 BENNER-Dorothy Booth. Left this world on January 26, 2002 from complications following hip surgery at the age of 84. She was the beloved wife, for 60 years, to G. Willard Benner who survives her. She also leaves her nephew Robert W. Booth, Jr. and grand niece and nephew, Kimberly Booth and 
 JOHNSON-Maria Janice (nee Toia). Of New York City, on Monday, January 28, 2002. Born February 1, 1922. Beloved wife of the late Allan R. Johnson. Loving sister of the late Joseph Toia. Cherished aunt of Mark, Joseph and Steven Toia, and Laura Toia-Guardino. Adoring great aunt of Joseph, Nic
 KAHN-Marion. On January 26, 2002, at age 97. Devoted mother of Lois Wallace. Beloved grandmother of George and his wife Caroline. Lifelong resident of New York, New York. Graduate of Barnard, Class of 1925. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, J
 LEVINGER-Leah. All of us at Bank Street College of Education and its community mourn the passing of Leah Levinger, longtime friend and colleague, who died on January 22nd. Leah touched so many lives in so many important ways. In 1997, Bank Street College awarded Leah an honorary doctorate. 
 NERKEN-Jean. The Board, Faculty and Staff of The Cooper Union and the Albert Nerken School of Engineering note with sorrow the passing of Jean Nerken. With her late husband Albert, a trustee and major benefactor, Jean Nerken was a great friend of the college and a generous and loyal support
 RILEY-Elizabeth Mildred. Died January 27, 2002, at her home in New York City at the age of 94. She is survived by her nephew Frederick G. Riley and great niece Michele Riley Allen. A service will be held Wednesday, February 6, 10AM at the Church of Heavenly Rest, 2 East 90th St. In lieu of 
 STERN-ROSS-Dorothy. Our lives have been enriched through our friendship with Dorothy. She met every challenge with determination and the energy to achieve. Her love and compassion for others was constantly demonstrated by her willingness to share her blessings. We loved her and will always 
 Inge Morath, a photographer who brought a whimsical, lyrical touch to her images from travelogues to reportage to portraits, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 78 and lived in Roxbury, Conn. Arthur Miller, her husband, said the cause of death was lymphoma.    
 HEFFNER-Eva. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Devoted mother of Harold and the late Allen. Dear mother-in-law of Jane S. Heffner and Alice Stolman. Adored grandmother of six and great-grandmother of 11. Services Thursday, January 31, 1 PM at the RiversideNassau North Chapels, 55 North Stati
 JARECKY-Lillian. On January 29, 2002, in her 100th year. Devoted wife to the late Julian Jarecky. Loving mother to Maida and husband Abraham Piaker, and the late Jesse Jarecky. Beloved grandmother to Daniel Jarecky, Steven Piaker and David Piaker. Cherished great-grandmother to Rachel, Lind
 LLOYD-Ruth. Of Devonwood Drive, Farmington, CT, died on Monday, January 28, 2002 at John Dempsey Hospital in Farmington. She was born on August 27, 1910 in Buffalo, New York. Mrs. Lloyd was the widow of Norman Lloyd, former Director of the Arts of the Rockefeller Foundation and Dean of the 
 MORATH-Inge. The adventure of Magnum for all of us, photographers, staff, and friends is immeasurably less sparkling today. For fifty years Inge Morath has enlivened our company with her bravery, charm, wit and wisdom. For a generation of us the magic of Paris started at Inge's Place at 8 R
 ROSENBERG-Doris L., 83. Died on January 29, 2002 at Mt. Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. Daughter of the late Paul F. Lowinger of Vienna, Austria & Claire Lowinger of Jacksonville, Florida. Wife of the late Irwin H. Rosenberg, of New York. A passionate advocate of the rights of children and the
 SIEGEL-Ernestine. Went peacefully in her sleep on January 29 at age 96. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Mourned by brother Arthur, children George and Linda, Charlotte and Norman Gilden, grandchildren Jennifer, Linda, Miles and great grandchild Wendy. We were blessed to have her in our li
 WALSH-Margaret Mary. Retired Assistant Superintendent of the Arlington School District in Poughkeepsie, NY, died January 30 at Ferncliff Nursing Home. She was a former Trustee of the New York Teachers Retirement System. Mass on Saturday, 10 AM, Our Lady of the Rosary Chapel in Poughkeepsie,
 YOHALEM-Lillian. Age 89. Died on Wednesday, January 30, 2002 at home in Chappaqua, NY. She was the beloved wife of Aaron; adored mother of Deborah and Frank Wadsworth, Nan and Allen Banks, Jane and Daniel Yohalem; grandmother of fourteen and great grandmother of eight. Born in Mt. Vernon, N
 Raji Jallepalli-Reiss, a chef credited with originating the fusion of classic French and Indian cuisines, died on Jan. 27 at her home in Memphis. She was 52. The cause was cancer, according to The Commercial Appeal of Memphis. As the executive chef of the Indian restaurant T
