 BERK-Shirley. Wife of the late Dr. Alexei, adored mother of Dr. Betsy Kahan and Alexander Berk. Cherished grandmother of Jessica and Rebecca Kahan, Jillian, Matthew and Simon Berk. Services to be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday at 11:30 A.M. BERK 
 BLAIR-Karen Krause Born in Bklyn, NY, daughter of Helen Johnson Ashton of Ft. Lauderdale, FL and the late Carlton H. Krause. Loving mother of Katherine M. Sullivan of North Potomac, MD, Thomas C. Blair of Stamford, CT, Elizabeth A. Burgess of NY, and Jennifer L. Blair of Alexandria, VA. Dev
 DABNEY-Marian Jean. Died unexpectedly July 28 in Peoria, IL. Daughter of James V. Tomai and Cecilia Ziegler Tomai, and wife of the late Seth M. Dabney III. She grew up in Glen Rock, NJ and graduated from Montclair State Teachers College and NYU Law School. She practiced law with AT&T for 39
 HOLMAN-Constance Friess, M.D. The faculty and staff of New YorkPresbyterian Hospital and Weill Medical College of Cornell University are saddened by the passing of their esteemed colleague, Dr. Constance Friess Holman. Graduating at the top of her class at Cornell University Medical College
 KROENER-Anita. This gracious lady was born on February 28, 1911 in Vienna, Austria. She passed away peacefully on July 20, 1999. Anita was the beloved wife of the late Otto Kroener and the late Dr. Stefan Kornhauser. She was the sister of the late Erika Anderson. She is survived by her neph
 PERLES-Blanche K., 85. On July 29, 1999. She was deeply loved by her family and deeply loved themher late husband, Jerome, son, Henry, and his wife, Ruth, and grandsons, Joshua and Zachary. A graduate of the Fine Arts College of Interior Architecture of NYU, she was a highly respected decor
 PRIMUS-Janice, passed away on July 29, 1999. She was the loving wife of George Primus, dear sister of Edna K. Schattman and beloved Aunt of Nancy, Ellen and Richard. Private svcs will be held.       
 ROSENZWEIG-Helen Guzik. On July 31, 1999. She was a resident of Florida for 19 years, originally residing in Queens, NY. Beloved wife of William. Loving mother of Laura and Ardie, Mickey and Barbara. Dear sister of Eleanor and Florence. Cherished grandmother of Joshua, Melissa and Brett, St
 SMITH-Elisabeth Sperry. Died on July 20 in Washington, CT. after a long illness. Wife of the late Carleton Sprague Smith, she is survived by a daughter Damaris, her sonin-law John Rogers Horan, four grandchildren: Abigail Moore, Daniel Horan, Patrick Horan, Quincy Horan & two grandchildren.
 STERN-Lillian. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Stern. Cherished mother of Judy Holland, Margery and Herbert Rosin. Adored grandmother and great-grandmother. She celebrated life and helped others to do the same and will always be eternally young. Services on Sunday, August 1, 9:45AM at ''The
 Amaryllis Fleming, a British cellist who was particularly devoted to chamber music and the Baroque literature, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Nettlebed, near Oxford, England, where she lived. She was 73. Ms. Fleming lived a colorful life, partly because she was born into a family 
 Anita Carter, a member of country music's pioneering Carter Family and a star in her own right, died in her home in Goodlettsville, Tenn.,  near Nashville, on Thursday. She was 66. The cause was not yet known, Lou Robin, her manager, told the Associated Press. Ms. Carter had rheumat
 ADLER-Else nee Feitel. Peacefully in her 90th year, at home on July 25, 1999 in Great Neck, NY following a long illness. Wife of the late Dr. Hans Adler. Survived by her children: Madeleine Conway of Westport, CT, Dorothy Bennett of Falls Church, VA., and Jacqueline Adler Walker (Arthur) of
 LASKEY-Sybil. Loving wife of J. Larry Laskey, devoted mother of Amy, Tom, mother-in-law of Debra Rothschild and sister of Martin Tomberg. She will be warmly remembered for her culinary skills, keen mind and vibrant personality. She reveled in the accomplishments not only of her children but
 MARX - Kathryn. Distinguished photographer of Paris, France and New York City, mourned by her parents Arthur and Emilie Marx, her brother Arthur and his wife Molly, and her lifelong friend Patricia Mullen.       
 MELI-Lee. Died on July 29, 1999, of breast cancer. Known professionally as Lea Jorgensen, stage director, singer and teacher, she was affiliated with the NYC Opera, Bel Canto Opera and the Lake George Opera Festival. She is survived by her husband Manny and her daughter Melissa. Memorial se
 NAGAR - Talia, Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of the daughter of its devoted members Ephraim and Roshelle Nagar, and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 POPKIN-Judith Elwyn. 45, of Canterbury, NH. Died Saturday, July 31, 1999, of breast cancer. She was the daughter of George and Sally Popkin of Freeport, NY. Judy Popkin was a healthcare worker and longtime activist for reproductive rights, breast cancer advocacy and women's health awareness
 ABRAMS-Natalie, 76. Of Cranbury NJ, on August 1. Beloved wife of Lawrence Abrams, devoted mother of Joe Abrams and Susan Burton, and grandmother of Matthew and Sarah Abrams and Allison, Samantha and Jennifer Burton. Contributions may be made in her memory to Trinity Hospice, 111 Union Ave, 
 ADLER-Else nee Feitel. Peacefully in her 90th year, at home on July 25, 1999 in Great Neck, NY following a long illness. Wife of the late Dr. Hans Adler. Survived by her children: Madeleine Conway of Westport, CT, Dorothy Bennett of Falls Church, VA., and Jacqueline Adler Walker (Arthur) of
 CASTELLANO-Anna. Age 82, widow of Louis A. Castellano, beloved mother of Barbara Taylor and Dr. Robert Castellano, died on Monday, July 26 in Southhampton, New York. After a long and heroic struggle with emphysema. Her family and friends mourn the loss of this remarkable woman.       
 CROW-Ruth L. Ackerman, 81 years old, a longtime Palm Beacher, former Washingtonian and Manhattanite, died peacefully at home, Saturday, July 31, 1999 after an extended illness. During World War II, Mrs. Crow was the U.S. answer to ''Tokyo Rose,'' while assigned to the OSS in Honolulu. She g
 ELIAS-Dorothy. It is with heartfelt sorrow we record the passing of a dear resident of the Home, beloved wife of the late Oriel Elias. Dorothy and Oriel were Founders of the Home and dedicated benefactors. Dorothy was a member of the Board of Directors of LASHA. We extend our sincerest cond
 GLICKHOUSE-Belle on July 21, 1999. Wife of the late Louis Glickhouse. She added much to our lives. She will be sorely missed. Schechter, Glickhouse, Feiger and Arkin Families       
 GOROVOY-Norma. Age 71, of Tuxedo Park, New York. Mother of Leslie Kenney & Cliff Gorovoy, beloved grandmother of Sarah & Soroush, Lauren, Justin & Charlie. Services are 12:30PM today Cedar Park Mausoleum, Forest Avenue, Paramus, N.J. For additonal information call Robert Schoem's Menorah Ch
 KOVATS-Marion, T. (nee Ranch). Lifelong NYC resident, died peacefully of cancer on August 1,1999 (age 80). She joins her husband, Frank and grandson, Jed in heaven. Beloved mother of Karen K. Nicholson (Atlanta) and Robin Ann Dellarmi (Cold Spring, NY). Grandma of Kimberly, Nicole, Colin an
 LASKEY-Sybil. Loving wife of J. Larry Laskey, devoted mother of Amy, Tom, mother-in-law of Debra Rothschild and sister of Martin Tomberg. She will be warmly remembered for her culinary skills, keen mind and vibrant personality. She reveled in the accomplishments not only of her children but
 LEAVITT-Jeanette G. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Peter Leavitt and Lonni Cacchione. Cherished grandmother, great-grandmother and great great-grandmother. Service today, at 2 PM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mt. Vernon, New York. In lieu of flower
 RICHMAN-Pauline Frances (Paula, to the world), on August 2nd, 1999 at age 94. She left us as she lived, peacefully and with dignity. Survived by her son, Gilbert; daughters-in-law, Janice and Ruth; grandchildren, Howard and Jill; great-grandchildren, Betsy and Lee; friends, associates and h
 SCHAD-SOMERS-Susanne Petra. Of New York City and Amagansett. A psychotherapist, died July 29, 1999. Born January 17, 1939 Berlin, Germany. Studied at University of Frankfurt. Ph.d in Sociology from Columbia University 1971. Taught at New York City Community College (1963-5), Rutgers Univers
 DENNY-Ethel K. In Lenox Hill Hospital, New York, August 1, 1999. Ethel K. Denny, wife of the late James H. Denny, survived by nephews, Kenneth A. Hiller of Stamford, CT, Barrie R. Hiller of Closter, NJ, Roger L. Hiller of Flushing, NY. Also survived by several cousins and predeceased by sev
 KAUDERER-Fay G. Of Lynbrook, New York. On July 31, 1999. Beloved mother of Bruce Kauderer and Carol Meltzer. Adored grandmother of Laura and Sarah Kauderer and Alison and Danielle Meltzer. Devoted sister of Irwin Glantz and sister-in-law Gene Glantz. Services were held August 1, 1999 at Gut
 ORTOF-Rose. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute extends heartfelt sympathies to Trustee Phyllis Rosen and her family on the passing of her beloved mother, Rose Ortof. May your memories of her offer comfort to you. Our sincerest condolences to Phyllis, Leonard, their children an
 PLOVNICK-Adele K. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Queens, NY, died August 2, 1999 in Boca Raton, FL. Mrs. Plovnick was a member of B'nai B'rith Women, We Care Organization, Hadassah and past president of the Mansfield Condo Association in her community. Loving and devoted mother of Phyllis S
 RICHMAN-Pauline Frances (Paula, to the world), on August 2nd, 1999 at age 94. She left us as she lived, peacefully and with dignity. Survived by her son, Gilbert; daughters-in-law, Janice and Ruth; grandchildren, Howard and Jill; great-grandchildren, Betsy and Lee; friends, associates and h
 CORNELL-Harriet Wilkes. Cornell University mourns the loss of a devoted friend and supporter, Harriet W. Cornell. Mrs. Cornell and her husband, George D. Cornell, were honored as Foremost Benefactors of the University for their steadfast support which helped to establish the Edward Cornell 
 FREIMANN-Lorraine Gallagher. A long-time resident of Palm Beach, Fla., and former resident of Chicago, Fort Wayne, Ind., and New York City, died at her home on Tuesday, August 3, 1999. She is survived by two daughters, Mrs. Danielle F. Basil of Palm Beach, and Mrs. Francine F. Snyder of Chi
 GILMAN-Sylvia P. On August 4, 1999, at age 97. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Loving mother of the late Howard and Charles Jr. She is survived by members of the Gilman, Phillips and Marcus families. Services and interment private. GILMAN-Sylvia P. Congregation Emanu-El of the Cit
 GLOTZER-Vera P., 94. Died on August 4, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Samuel; loving mother of son David and daughter in-law Sheryl; adoring grandmother of Matthew and Lauren. She Will be deeply missed by family and friends. Services at noon, Friday, August 6, Sunset Chapel, 1285 Northern B
 GREENWALD-Helen Newman. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved wife of Herbert Greenwald and mother of Rose (and Morton L.) Landowne. YU Guardians with the late Louis Landowne, Rose and Morton Landowne are Fellows of our affil
 HAIM-Esther. On August 3, 1999 at home in Neponsit, NY. Loving wife of the late Samuel. Beloved mother of Marilyn (Stuart) Zerner, Gladys (Kenneth) Yoblon, Susan (Thomas) Robbio, Wendy (Dr. Ira) Kotler. Cherished grandmother of Adam and Andrew Yoblon, Paul and Jennifer Zerner, Joanna Kotler
 RADTKE-Janel Marie. Born in Milwaukee, WI. July 8, 1952 passed away August 3, 1999 in Nyack, NY. Beloved daughter of Florence and the late Joseph, sister of Jeffrey & his wife Diane, and life partner of Sherri Eisenpress. Founder and partner in Radiant Communications, a public relations fir
 SCHICK-Nina. Age 90 of East Hampton, New York died on July 27th, 1999. Mrs. Schick trained as an artist in Paris and London, and studied with Serge Soudekine in New York. In 1947 she founded the Green Thumb Flowers Inc., which was a leading floral designer in New York for the next thirty ye
 WOHLHORN RYDER-Janet. On July 22, 1999 in West Palm Beach, previously of New York NY. survived by her husband, Theodore Ryder of Atlantis FL, 2 daughters, Linda Simard and June Wohlhorn and brother, Warren Andrews. In Florida, Janet was former President of Snelling Employment Services of We
 GILMAN-Sylvia P. On August 4, 1999, at age 97. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Loving mother of the late Howard and Charles Jr. She is survived by members of the Gilman, Phillips and Marcus families. Services and interment private. GILMAN-Sylvia Phillips. The American Friends of T
 KONSTAM-Leo. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to Dasha Gelbtuch on the loss of her beloved father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 NAGAR-Talia. The Yemenite Jewish Federation of America mourns with Rochelle and Ephraim Nagar and their sons Adam, Binyamin and Daniel, the death of their beloved daughter and sister, Talia. A bright and shining child, her name will forever be a blessing. Ephraim Isaac, Pres. The Executive 
 SLOVEN-Natalie (Billowitz). Of Rockville Centre, Long Island. Died on August 4, 1999 after a long illness. Born July 13, 1920 in Hurleyville, N.Y. She is survived by three children: Larry Sloven of Hong Kong, Jane Sloven of Portland, ME., & Mark Sloven of Rockaway, N.J. Her grandchildren Ja
 WECHSLER-Jeanne L. Age 95, on August 5, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Arnold; loving and devoted mother of Robert, Lawrence and Stephen; dear sister of Irving, Mae, Doris, Frances, Abraham, and the late Morris, Harry and Mal; adoring grandmother of Sharon, Alisa, Jonathan, Michael, Amy and
 WEISSBERGER-Rose. On August 4, 1999 in her one hundredth year died peacefully at home. The devoted wife to both the late Irving Weissberger and the late Samuel H. Weinstein. She is survived and her memory cherished by her sons Alvin (Ruth) Wayne, Edgar M. (Ann) Wayne, Dr. William B. (Marie)
 Zohara Schatz, a sculptor who designed a symbolic menorah for the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial in Jerusalem, died on Tuesday in Jerusalem after a long illness. She was 83. Ms. Schatz's aluminum six-branched candelabrum of 1985 represented the six million Jews killed in the 
 Elizabeth Forsling Harris, who was briefly the first publisher of Ms. magazine, died on July 14 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 77. She died in a hospital of complications from emphysema, said a friend, Patricia Reilly. Ms. Harris helped start Ms. magazine in late 197
 CROSS-Lee. Age 57, of Brooklyn. On August 5th, due to pneumonia. She was an Acting Justice of the New York Supreme Court sitting in Queens' county. She is survived by her loving husband, Bill Brodsky, her two children Sarah Cross, 21, and Rachel Brodsky, 20, as well as her parents Dick and 
 GILMAN-Sylvia Phillips. The Board of Trustees and staff of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art mourn the passing of our respected and dear friend, Sylvia Phillips Gilman. She was a dedicated supporter of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art, and will long be remembered for her kindness
 JACKNIS-Estelle R. Beloved wife of Nathan. Loving mother of Dr. Ira Jacknis, Rabbi Ian and Suri Jacknis, and Jocelyn. Cherished grandmother of Noam, Yael and Nava. Dear sister of Dr. Morton Kupperman. Services Sunday August 8, 1pm at Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, Roslyn Rd at The No
 KARNOVSKY - Leslie. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the untimely passing of their fellow member Leslie Karnovsky, and offer their deepest sympathy to her husband, Dr. Terry Karnovsky, her children and the entire Karnovsky family. Alpine Country
 MENYUK-LARUSSO-Anne E. On July 31, 1999. Beloved sister and aunt. She will be greatly missed by all who knew her.       
 SNYMAN-Marta. Marta Snyman, a retired stockbroker and teacher, died on July 7th, 1999 of a brain hemorrhage at Tulane University Medical Center in New Orleans. She was 57. Ms. Snyman was born in New York City and lived in New York City and New Orleans. She was a graduate of Clearwater High 
 SOREL-Claudette Marguerite. Renowned concert pianist, teacher and author died at her home in Hampton Bays, NY Friday, August 6th, 1999 at age 66. No immediate family members survive. It was her request that no funeral service be held. Memorial contributions may be made to the Elizabeth and 
 WEISSBERGER-Rose. On August 4, 1999 in her one hundredth year died peacefully at home. The devoted wife to both the late Irving Weissberger and the late Samuel H. Weinstein. She is survived and her memory cherished by her sons Alvin (Ruth) Wayne, Edgar M. (Ann) Wayne, Dr. William B. (Marie)
 Shulamit Katznelson, who was awarded the 1986 Israel Prize for Life Achievement, her country's highest honor, for bringing Arabs and Jews together through learning each other's languages, died yesterday at her home in the coastal town of Netanya, north of Tel Aviv. She was 80. The c
 Kathryn Murray, the hostess of ''The Arthur Murray Party,'' which used comedy and celebrity to sell ballroom dancing to the masses in television's infancy, died on Friday at her home in Honolulu. She was 92. Mrs. Murray had been the executive vice president of the dance-studio empir
 ABLON-Carl S. The officers and staff of Greater Talent Network, Inc., extend heartfelt condolences to our dear colleague, Barbara Ablon Solomon, on the loss of her father, Carl. Don R. Epstein, President       
 FRENKEL-Diana Platt. On August 5, 1999 in Santa Monica, CA. Beloved wife of Richard Frenkel. Cherished daughter of Sandra Novick and Michael and Judy Platt. Dear sister of Eric Platt, Elizabeth Krauss and Eric Krauss. Loving sister-in-law of Linda Roth Platt and Jonathan Isaacs. A memorial 
 GIBSON-Barbara Sue, 58, social worker, known for her civil rights activism and expertise in addictions and HIV/AIDS, and her mother Susan B. Gibson, 80, died in an automobile accident August 3, 1999. For information, please call 718-526-5656.       
 GILMAN-Sylvia P. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Sylvia P. Gilman who, throughout much of her life, contributed greatly to furthering the extraordinary legacy of support to Beth Israel started by her grandfather, Moses Phillips, a founde
 HAIM-Esther. On August 3, 1999 at home in Neponsit, NY. Loving wife of the late Samuel. Beloved mother of Marilyn (Stuart) Zerner, Gladys (Kenneth) Yoblon, Susan (Thomas) Robbio, Wendy (Dr. Ira) Kotler. Cherished grandmother of Adam and Andrew Yoblon, Paul & Jennifer Zerner, Joanna Kotler, 
 JULI-Paula (Cohen). Holocaust Survivor, born in Poland, 1921; emigrated to the United States with her husband Sam Juli in 1947. She was active in fund-raising and teaching about the Holocaust. Survived by her sons, Harold and Herbert and daughter-in-law Harriet, grandchildren Eric and Sara 
 KAUFMAN-Vickie, 72, of Alcoa, TN, died at 3:50 AM, Saturday, August 7, 1999, at Blount Memorial Hospital, Maryville, Tenn. Preceeded in death by her beloved husband, Ralph Kaufman. She is survived by her sons Michael Kaufman of Cherry Hill, NJ, Steve Kaufman of Alcoa, TN, and Will Kaufman o
 LEVY - Nachama (Natalie)(nee Friedman). Born June 12, 1923 in Rochester, N.Y. Died suddenly on August 1st. at her home in Indianapolis, Indiana. She is survived by her son Joel Levy of Seattle, Wa. and two granddaughters Galit and Keryn Pelled of Jerusalem and pre-deceased by her daughter E
 SCHINZEL-Lillian. August 5, 1999. A great lady. Loved by her sister Rose Segenreich; nieces Margaret and Betsy Segenreich and grandniece little Lily. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St., Sunday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM; service Monday, 12:30 PM. Burial Kensico Cemete
 STERN-Pearl. With great sorrow, the family of Pearl Stern announces her death on Thursday, August 5. Beloved mother of Mr. Stephen K. Stern of Albuquerque, NM, and Dr. Peter D. Stern of Corrales, NM; dear friend and motherin-law to Susan Glodt-Stern of Corrales, NM, and Suzanne Stern of Alb
 Viola Sheely, an actress, a singer and a founding member of the Urban Bush Women dance company, died on July 27 in Tompkins Square Park on the Lower East Side. She was 41 and lived in Manhattan and Bali. Ms. Sheely had taken her daughter, Jessye, to the park and apparently had a hea
 SCHICK-Nina. Age 90 of East Hampton, New York died on July 27th, 1999. Mrs. Schick trained as an artist in Paris and London, and studied with Serge Soudekine in New York. In 1947 she founded the Green Thumb Flowers Inc., which was a leading floral designer in New York for the next thirty ye
 Claudette Sorel, a pianist who was at her best in music that demanded delicacy and lyricism but who also gave highly regarded performances of difficult contemporary works and big Romantic showpieces, died on Friday at her home in Hampton Bays, N.Y. She was 66. The cause was cancer, 
 BLANTON-Laura Lee. The Board of Managers of Museum Tower regrets the loss of our Board member, Laura Lee. From the building's first Board meeting, Laura Lee was a beacon of calm, good sense and clear thinking. She was a wonderful woman who had our respect and was our friend. We grieve for J
 FRIES-Sophia. With great sorrow but with appreciation for the many treasured memories she leaves with us, the Fries family announces her peaceful death on August 8, 1999 at age 94 in Boca Raton, FL. She will be missed but remembered with pride by her loving and beloved husband, Jack, her so
 GIBSON-Barbara Sue. The Division of Substance Abuse and Adiction Medicine of the Department of Psychiatry of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine-Montefiore Medical Center express sincere condolences on the sudden accidental death of our colleague and friend, Barbara Sue Gibson and her m
 KERMAN-Ruth. The leaders and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services mourn the passing of Ruth Kerman, a staff member for more than 40 years at the Infants Home of Brooklyn, now the IHB Day Treament Center. The office manager at IHB from 1975 until her retirement in 1998
 KITSON-Susanna nee O'Connor. August 8, 1999 at age 93. Beloved wife of the late Michael, loving mother of Michael, John, Robert and Kevin Kitson, Mary Bundage and Anne Alongi. Adored grandmother of 17 and great-grandmother of 8. Devoted sister of Ann Dolan. Friends may call at Frank E. Camp
 LEVINE-Shirley R. On August 7, 1999 at age 71, in FL. Daughter of the late Dr. Louis and Celia Oringel of Brooklyn, Shirley graduated from Brooklyn College with B.A. and M.A. degrees. She taught for 10 years in Oceanside, LI School District in the elementary and high school. She was accredi
 MULLER-Fanny. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected member of the Montreal Jewish community, beloved wife of the late Max Muller and mother of YU alumni Hedda (and Sheldon) Rudoff and Lydia (and Dr. Harry) Weisman. Hedda and Sheldon Rudoff are Fellows of Yeshiva Co
 RODGERS-Mary L. On August 8, 1999. Beloved wife of Eugene L. Rodgers, loving sister of Helen Gros-Daillon, dear aunt of Annette Williams, Andre Severance and John Gros-Daillon. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Tuesday, August 10, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Funeral mass
 SHRIFTE-Evelyn. On August 8. Sister of Bernice Woll, the late Ruth Appel, Estelle and Herbert Shrifte. Sister-in-law of Milton Woll. She will be missed also by her nieces and nephews and their children. Evelyn Shrifte was, for many years, the President of the Vanguard Press, the publisher o
 STARR-Kathryn S. 88. Died on August 8 in her home in Greenwich, CT. Born in Greenwich on December 22, 1910, the daughter of Paula and Reinhard Siedenburg. The wife of the late H. Danforth Starr, Mrs. Starr is survived by three daughters, Eleanor Darcy of Westminster, MD., Natalie Starr of W
 Jennifer Paterson, the over-the-top co-star of the quirky television cooking show ''Two Fat Ladies,'' died yesterday at a hospital in London, where she lived. She was 71. Lung cancer had been diagnosed last month after Ms. Paterson fell ill while filming installments of the cooking 
 AXELROD-Sadie. On August 9, 1999 in Rockville, MD. Beloved wife of the late Louis E. and sister of George and Gussie. Loving mother of Irwin, Norman and Lloyd. Grandmother of Eric, Beth, David, Lauren and Katie. Greatgrandmother of Ryan. She is loved and will be missed by many friends in Ne
 BLANTON-Laura Lee. The Board of Managers of Museum Tower regrets the loss of our Board member, Laura Lee. From the building's first Board meeting, Laura Lee was a beacon of calm, good sense and clear thinking. She was a wonderful woman who had our respect and was our friend. We grieve for J
 COHEN-Josephine. Life-long resident of Brooklyn, died Friday of complications from emphysema. She was 77. She taught, for twenty-five years, at P.S. 152 in Brooklyn. Her husband Herbert died in 1989. She is survived by her children Susan & Anthony DeStefano of Englewood, N.J. and Larry and 
 FRIES-Sophia. With great sorrow but with appreciation for the many treasured memories she leaves with us, the Fries family announces her peaceful death on August 8, 1999 at age 94 in Boca Raton, FL. She will be missed but remembered with pride by her loving and beloved husband, Jack, her so
 LEMBERSKY - Ethel (Evelyn). Loving wife of the late Max Lembersky and the late Julius Horwitz. Loving mother of Sandra Horwitz Assael, mother-in-law of Isaac Assael and the late Leonard J. Grossman. Loving sister of Ed Tashman. After 92 years, she passed away peacefully . She will be missed
 ROSENBLATT-Lois, 56. Of New York, passed away on Monday, August 9, 1999. Ms. Rosenblatt was the daughter of the late Claire Rosenblatt, and the late E.G. ''Manny'' Rosenblatt, co-founder of Israel Cancer Association USA in Palm Beach, FL. She will be cherished and missed by her beloved sist
 SCHWARTZ-Barbara. August 8, 1999. Devoted mother to Elissa, Suzanne and Matthew; beloved sister to Howard and Janet. Her strength, courage and spirit will be remembered and missed by everyone whose life she touched.       
 SHRIFTE-Evelyn. On August 8. Sister of Bernice Woll, the late Ruth Appel, Estelle and Herbert Shrifte. Sister-in-law of Milton Woll. She will be missed also by her nieces and nephews and their children. Evelyn Shrifte was, for many years, the President of the Vanguard Press, the publisher o
 STARR-Kathryn S. 88. Died on August 8 in her home in Greenwich, CT. Born in Greenwich on December 22, 1910, the daughter of Paula and Reinhard Siedenburg. The wife of the late H. Danforth Starr, Mrs. Starr is survived by three daughters, Eleanor Darcy of Westminster, MD., Natalie Starr of W
 ALPERT-Jeannette Simon, died August 9, 1999 at age 93 in Florida. Loving wife of the late Leon Alpert. Survived by her children, Steven L. Alpert & Sandra Harris; grandchildren Felicia Harris and Howard Alpert; daughter-in-law Dalia Alpert and son-in-law Steven Harris; devoted sister to She
 FROMCHUCK - Arlene. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Associate Professor of Classics Arlene Fromchuck. Her 31 years of teaching and service will be long remembered. Vernon E. Lattin, President Brooklyn College       
 KONSTAM-Leo. We extend our sincerest condolences to Hadassah Gelbtuch on the loss of her beloved father. As Golden Founders of our Medical Center, Hadassah and her husband, Benjamin have devoted their lives to Tzedakah and Chesed, inspired by this warm, kind and caring individual. May Hadas
 LEMBERSKY - Ethel (Evelyn). Loving wife of the late Max Lembersky and the late Julius Horwitz. Loving mother of Sandra Horwitz Assael, mother-in-law of Isaac Assael and the late Leonard J. Grossman. Loving sister of Ed Tashman. After 92 years, she passed away peacefully . She will be missed
 MORRISON-Patricia Fox, 79. Of Scarsdale. Died August 10, 1999. Mrs. Morrison was pre-deceased by loving husband Robert. She is survived by two sons, Robert S. and Bruce G. Morrison and three grandchildren, Kim Mink, Kelly and Gavin Morrison. A memorial mass will be held August 13 at 10AM at
 SCHMIDT-Nancy Montgomery. Died August 10, 1999, beloved wife of Benno C. Schmidt, mother of Ruth, Stephen, and James Fleischmann, stepmother of Benno, Jr., Ralph, William, and John Schmidt. Loving grandmother of fifteen grandchildren and great grandmother of one. She will be missedby all wh
 STARR-Kathryn S. 88. Died on August 8 in her home in Greenwich, CT. Born in Greenwich on December 22, 1910, the daughter of Paula and Reinhard Siedenburg. The wife of the late H. Danforth Starr, Mrs. Starr is survived by three daughters, Eleanor Darcy of Westminster, MD., Natalie Starr of W
 ARZT-Marion. Of the Bronx, New York, died August 11, 1999, from cancer. She was the wife of Arthur Arzt, a veteran of Patton's Third Army, (W.W. II), and who worked for various New York appliance businesses. She was the mother of three beloved children, Lee Robert, Dean Wayne, and Robin Jo.
 FEINSTEIN-Sheila. District Attorney Charles J. Hynes and the staff of the Kings County District Attorney's office mourn the passing of Sheila Feinstein, mother of First Assistant District Attorney Amy Feinstein. Devoted mother of Amy, Jonathan and Jodi. Loving grandmother of Bradley and Aly
 FISHMAN-Barbara White. Artist and philanthropist died on August 12, 1999 at the age of 60. Mother of Neil, Leslie, and Daniel Fishman. Also survived by sister Mimi Inorio. A memorial service will be held on Sunday August 15, 1999 at 11:30 am at Campbell's Funeral Home 1076 Madison Avenue. I
 FROMCHUCK-Arlene. Her colleagues in the Brooklyn College Classics Department lament the passing of Arlene Fromchuck, whose inspired teaching influenced generations of students for over three decades. She was a true champion of liberal education. Condolences should be sent to her husband, Mr
 LICHTENDORF-Susan Rae (Siegel), on August 11, 1999 at age 58. Beloved wife of Arthur. Loving mother of Victoria. Caring sister of Richard, devoted daughter of the late Harry & Mildred Siegel. Susan, contrary to her small stature, displayed enormous talent and tremendous courage. A progressi
 MALLETS-Mildred Siegel Goddin, age 100, residing in Sarasota, FL., died Wednesday in Sarasota. She was born in Neponsit, L.I., N.Y.       
 MICHAEL-Lily, 87. Died peacefully August 6 at St. Luke's Hospital after suffering a heart attack. Mrs. Michael, a former artist, received her art training at the School of Painting & Sculpture at Columbia University. Mrs. Michael was a member of the American Abstract Artists Association, on
 RATTNER-Linda (nee Istorico). 40 years old, of Pearl River, NY. Loving mother of Ashley, Zachary and Danny. Adored wife of Bill. Died peacefully on August 12 at her home surrounded by her family after a valiant battle against breast cancer. Funeral services to be held on Saturday, 9:30 AM, 
 SCHMIDT-Nancy Montgomery. Died August 10, 1999, beloved wife of Benno C. Schmidt, mother of Ruth, Stephen, and James Fleischmann, stepmother of Benno, Jr., Ralph, William, and John Schmidt. Loving grandmother of fifteen grandchildren and great grandmother of one. She will be missedby all wh
 TONJES-Karen Jane. Age 43, died August 11, 1999 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital. Survived by her mother, Judi WagnerSchaeberle, East Boothbay, ME. & Fernandina Beach, FL; a brother, Konrad Wagner, Medford, NJ and her niece and nephew, Caroline and Cameron Wagner. Memorial Service
 WHITE-Barbara. It is with joy and sadness that the Founders, Trustees, Staff and Artists of the Vermont Studio Center acknowledge the passing of our friend, fellow artist, colleague and benefactor, Barbara White...Joy at having known her and sadness for not being able to know her longer. As
 FADEN-Barbara Zirinsky. Died peacefully after a battle with cancer on August 13, 1999 at age 50. Devoted daughter of Cynthia and Richard Zirinsky. Mother of Cynthia Deutsch-Eckes. Sister of Susan Zirinsky, Richard Zirinsky, Jr. and Jay Luber. Beloved niece of Natalie Brown, Daniel and Gilda
 FISCHER - Margaret (Maggie). The Saltaire community is grieved beyond measure at the sudden and tragic passing of Maggie Fischer. Her brightness, compassion and gentle nature were a joy in all our lives. She leaves us with memories we shall always cherish. We extend our heartfelt sympathies
 FISHMAN-Barbara White. With deep sorrow, the Board of Trustees, faculty, students and staff of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, mourn the death of Trustee Barbara White Fishman. A gifted artist, a devoted alumna of The Cooper Union School of Art, she endowed visiting
 JAFFA-May S. On August 13, 1999 in her 102nd year. Beloved wife of the late Charles Jaffa. Devoted mother of Carol J. and Maurice Feinberg, the late Rose J. Snyder and Howard E. Jaffa. Adored grandmother of Margaret Scully, Nancy Feinberg Tobin, Hope Schroy and David Feinberg. Sprightly gre
 ZIRINSKY-Barbara. On 13 August, 1999. The Members of the Board and Staff of Gracie Square Hospital mourn the loss of the daughter of our Hospital's Founders, Cynthia and Richard Zirinsky. Barbara was the loving mother of Cynthia Deutsch Ekes, and the devoted sister of Susan Peyronin and Ric
 FADEN-Barbara Zirinsky. Died peacefully after a battle with cancer on August 13, 1999 at age 50. Devoted daughter of Cynthia and Richard Zirinsky. Mother of Cynthia Deutsch-Eckes. Sister of Susan Zirinsky, Richard Zirinsky, Jr. and Jay Luber. Beloved niece of Natalie Brown, Daniel and Gilda
 FISHMAN-Barbara White. Artist and Philanthropist. Ms. White's career as an art director began shortly after her graduation from Cooper Union. She was a designer in an architectural office, designed fabrics for a textile company and worked at CBS in her early career designing advertisements 
 JAFFA-May S. On August 13, 1999 in her 102nd year. Beloved wife of the late Charles Jaffa. Devoted mother of Carol J. and Maurice Feinberg, the late Rose J. Snyder and Howard E. Jaffa. Adored grandmother of Margaret Scully, Nancy Feinberg Tobin, Hope Schroy and David Feinberg. Sprightly gre
 LANSBURGH-Ruth Lloyd. 86, died Friday, August 13, 1999. The adored wife of the late Robert Ranger Lansburgh for 47 years; devoted mother of Patricia L. Malcolm Alling and Cynthia L. McAdam; grandmother of Ashley, Peter, and Nikki Malcolm; and Barrett, Quincy and Kyrie McAdam; mother-in-law 
 LAPOTEN-Sylvia Cytryn. 82. Of Manhattan, on August 13. Cherished mother of Heather and Buzz Margolis. Treasured grandmother of Lenn and Alena Margolis, Randi and Lee Weinberg. Adored great-grandmother of Max, Robby, Dana, Jordyn and Bari. Loved sister and aunt. Her husband Leonard died in 1
 LICHTENDORF-Susan Rae (Siegel). On August 11, 1999, at age 58. Beloved wife of Arthur. Loving mother of Victoria. Caring sister of Richard, devoted daughter of the late Harry & Mildred Siegel. Susan, contrary to her small stature, displayed enormous talent and tremendous courage. A progress
 MILLARD-Marie Elizabeth. Of NYC, on August 13, 1999 at the age of 77. Beloved sister of Annie Rose Hemming of Birmingham, England. A Memorial Mass will be said at 11AM at St. Stephen of Hungary Church, 412 East 82nd Street, NYC on September 14th. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be mad
 SCHMIDT-Nancy Montgomery. The City University of New York extends its deepest sympathy on the passing of Mrs. Nancy Montgomery Schmidt, stepmother of Benno C. Schmidt Jr., Vice Chairman of the CUNY Board of Trustees. Mrs. Schmidt's philanthropic and charitable activities will be long rememb
 SCHWAB-Augusta Achilles. Formerly of Schenectady, NY, died peacefully on August 12, 1999, at her residence in Bryn Mawr, PA. Cherished grandmother of Annie, Peter, Emily, Jeremy and Laurel and mother of Larry, Emily, and the late Peter Schwab. Beloved mother-in-law of Nancy Borden and Linda
 SMITH-Rica (nee Martens). Actress who appeared in such feature films as Living in Oblivion, Welcome to the Dollhouse and Box of Moonlight, and such Broadway shows as The Shrike and Laura, died August 11, 1999. She was the beloved mother of Laurel Smith and loving sister of Fred Martens, Eve
 WEINBERG-Elsie E. In her 89th year, died at home on August 12, 1999. Beloved wife of 60 years to the late Milton. Devoted mother to Judith, Roger and her late son, Louis. Grandmother to Mara. Friend to all. She devoted her life to working with children of all ages and spent the last 42 year
 YUDKOFSKY-Eleanore V. ''Elly'' September 30, 1930-August 5, 1999. Lovingly remembered by her husband Bernie, daughter Ellie Vogel, grand-daughters Kate & Sarah, sister Dori Lorber and friends. At her wish she will be remembered at a private family service.       
 ZANDMAN-Eleanor (nee Levine). After 99 years filled with struggles and joys our mother passed away Friday, August 6, 1999. Her legacy of devotion and love will be cherished memories by her family. With great sorrow she is mourned by daughters Shirley, Bernice and son Jack, eight grandchildr
 FADEN-Barbara Zirinsky. The Directors of The Parkinson's Disease Foundation share the grief of their colleague, Richard Zirinsky, his wife Cynthia and their family, on their sad and untimely loss. Page Morton Black, Chairman Lewis P. Rowland, M.D., President FADEN-Barbara Zirinsky. 
 LANSBURGH-Ruth Lloyd. 86, died Friday, August 13, 1999. The adored wife of the late Robert Ranger Lansburgh for 47 years; devoted mother of Patricia L. Malcolm Alling and Cynthia L. McAdam; grandmother of Ashley, Peter, and Nikki Malcolm; and Barrett, Quincy and Kyrie McAdam; mother-in-law 
 LERNER-Mary Fenyes, Dr. Died June 27, 1999. Born July 31, 1912. Wife of late Allen Lerner and Robert Glass. Allergy, immunology and asthma practice in Brooklyn and Hampton Bays. Worked to advance health care, peace and social justice. Send tax free contributions in her memory to: Physicians
 RUBENSTEIN-Natalie (nee Katz). We mourn the loss of our mother who died August 11 in Far Rockaway, NY. She was 77. Supervising science reference librarian, she helped build and lead the Science and Business Division of Mid-Manhattan Public Library where she served for over 21 years before r
 WALTER-Elinor F. On August 15, 1999, at her home in Rye, NY. Wife of the late William L. Walter. Mother of Suzanne Kimball, Bonnie Walter, Carol Shweder and Richard Shweder. Sister of John L. and Josephine W. Freeman, and the late Charles M. Freeman and Phyllis Freeman Greene. Grandmother o
 WISE-Halle. On August 13 at the age of 67. Loving and beloved mother of Brooke Sissman, a lawyer in St. Louis. Sister of Stephen Wise of New Canaan, CT, and Deborah Wise of CA. Granddaughter of the late Rabbi Stephen S. Wise. Interment private. Donations may be made in her memory to Greenpe
 CHILDS-Ida (Kopp)dd for,nat<siz/%f con . In Concord, MA, August 13, of Yarmouthport, MA, formerly of Yonkers. Wife of the late Theodore F. Childs. Mother of Barbara C. Sampson of Lincoln, MA, and Cynthia C. Neely of Georgetown, CO. Memorial service Wednesday, 11:30 AM in Kelley Chapel, Yarm
 Celestine Sibley, an Atlanta newspaper columnist who for 55 years wrote about the commonplaces of Southern life in a prose as soothing as the hum of cicadas in summer, died on Sunday at her vacation home on Dog Island, Fla. Ms. Sibley was 85, and her last column was published in The
 FINE-Roslyn L. Died at her home in Manhattan, August 14. Beloved wife of the late Jesse J. Fine. Survivors include two daughters, Marjorie Fine Knowles and Carolyn Fine Clementi; one sister, Annette Swarzman; three grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Graveside service will be held a
 GURFEIN-Ruthe. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Ruthe Gurfein. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her dear husband Louis and to all her family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governors Norman Zarkin, 
 HABERMAN-Rebecca. A week ago when her pain was extreme, Rebecca Haberman expressed a wish to simply go to sleep and ''slip into paradise''. Last friday, August 13, 1999, a few weeks past her 79th birthday, she realized her wish, slipping away after a painful night. A remarkable woman loved 
 KAGAN-Judith E. Died August 15, of Newton, MA, wife of Richard M. Kagan, daughter of Hannah (Speier) and the late Joseph Lorch, mother of Jeffrey M. of Newton, MA, Lisa J. of Tampa, FL, Wendy B. of New York, sister of Dr. Steven and Susanna Lorch of New York, Gerald and Cynthia Kagan of CA.
 KRECH-Dill Grand. Of New Canaan, CT. Died August 16th at the home of her brother and sister-inlaw in North Salem, NY. She was 53. Dilly will be remembered for her strong spirit, sense of humor, love for the outdoors and passion for running. She was a wonderful mother and grandmother and an 
 PEARLSTEIN-Bess. The Board of Directors of the American Friends of Livnot U'lehibanot extends its sincere and heartfelt condolences to Rona Kellman, wife of our President and friend Ira Kellman, and to the enitre family on the loss of their beloved mother and grandmother. May they be comfor
 RITTOFF-Sylvia. Passed away peacefully at age 92. She will be greatly missed and in our hearts forever. Beloved wife of the late George, loving mother of Phyllis Vietri and the late Terry Berger. Treasured grandmother to Brad and Greg Berger, Leslie Berger Mendell and Robert and Lewis Gutte
 SCHMIDT-Nancy. Children of Bellevue, Inc. mourns the loss of our dear friend and Founding Life Member, Nancy, and extends our heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Benno, and their family. In this time of deep sadness, may they be assured of our thoughts and prayers. Board of Directors and Jun
 SMITH-Rica (Nee Martens). Actress who appeared in such feature films as Living in Oblivion, Welcome to the Dollhouse and Box of Moonlight, and such Broadway shows as The Shrike and Laura, died August 11, 1999. She was the beloved mother of Laurel Smith and loving sister of Fred Martens, Eve
 WAGNER-Edna Jones Teller. Age 82. August 13, 1999. Wife of Victor H. Wagner, mother of Wazir David Teller and Jane Teller, stepmother of Edriecote and Irene Wagner, grandmother of Nathan Walter. Barnard College class of 1938. Retired math teacher of New Lincoln School. In lieu of flowers, c
 WALTER-Elinor F. On August 15, 1999, at her home in Rye, NY. Wife of the late William L. Walter. Mother of Suzanne Kimball, Bonnie Walter, Carol Shweder and Richard Shweder. Sister of John L. and Josephine W. Freeman, and the late Charles M. Freeman and Phyllis Freeman Greene. Grandmother o
 WHITE-BOWER-Mary F. Of Southampton, NY and West Palm Beach, FL. On August 15, 1999 at Southampton, NY. Survived by her loving husband of 66 years, Robert; predeceased by her son Robert E. Also survived by her sister Kathleen Mullen of Galway, Ireland, and several nieces and nephews. There w
 deSIMONE-Adele. A vital, passionate, gifted scupltor and painter, always generous and full of joy, has friends around the world. Her noble and wise spirit lives on in our hearts. She will be missed by Jack, Paul and Diane deSimone and James, Alex and Zachary Hamilton and many dear friends. 
 FINE-Roslyn L. Died at her home in Manhattan, August 14. Beloved wife of the late Jesse J. Fine. Survivors include two daughters, Marjorie Fine Knowles and Carolyn Fine Clementi; one sister, Annette Swarzman; three grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Graveside service will be held a
 KRECH-Dill Grand. Of New Canaan, CT. Died August 16th at the home of her brother and sister-inlaw in North Salem, NY. She was 53. Dilly will be remembered for her strong spirit, sense of humor, love for the outdoors and passion for running. She was a wonderful mother and grandmother and an 
 MARRON-Eugenie M. 99 years old, of Palm Beach, FL, died on Monday, August 16, 1999 at a local hospital. Mrs. Marron had been a resident of Palm Beach for the past 50 years and was a former resident of New York, NY and Brielle, NJ. She received a Masters Degree in Fine Arts from Columbia Uni
 RABE-Elizabeth V. Age 100, on August 10, 1999. Beloved daughter of H. Charles Rabe and Valerie E. Waldner Rabe. Loving sister of Lillian R. McNeill. Also survived by niece, Carol M. Kirchheimer and nephew John F. McNeill. She was Chairman of Foreign Languages for John Jay High School, Brook
 SAIDENBERG - Eleanore. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their colleague and friend, a founding member of ADAA. A dealer for nearly 50 years, she was devoted to art, to artists and to her family. She will be missed and remembered. Our deepest sympath
 SMITH-Mignon Berman, 85. Loving mother of Susan Glickman, caring friend of Harvey Weinstein, adoring grandmother of Gail Glickman Horwood, David L. Glickman, Frederick Horwood and Denise DelBalzo. Proud great grandmother of Bridget Eva Horwood and Lucy Mignon Glickman. Passed on to join her
 SMITH-Rica (Nee Martens). Actress who appeared in such feature films as Living in Oblivion, Welcome to the Dollhouse and Box of Moonlight, and such Broadway shows as The Shrike and Laura, died August 11, 1999. She was the beloved mother of Laurel Smith and loving sister of Fred Martens, Eve
 WAGNER-Edna Jones Peller. Age 82. August 13, 1999. Wife of Victor H. Wagner, mother of Wazir David Peller and Jane Peller, stepmother of Edrie Cote and Irene Wagner, grandmother of Nathan Walter. Barnard College class of 1938. Retired math teacher of New Lincoln School. In lieu of flowers, 
 BECK-Joyce A. (Davis), 67, of Plymouth, Mass., formerly of Sandwich, Mass., died Tuesday. She was the wife of John W. Beck. Besides her husband, she is survived by her mother, Iva (Horner) Davis, of Bordentown, N.J. A memorial service will be held at 11 AM Friday, August 20, at St. John's E
 ERWICH-Carrie (nee Goldfarb). Wife of the late Oscar Kaiser. Died peacefully August 18. A brilliant, beautiful woman who inspired all who knew her. Adored by her children Ellyn and Dr. Burton Bronsther, and the late Dr. I. Howard and Ethel Kaiser, her eight grandchildren and 16 great-grandc
 KARPEL-Phoebe Brand. On August 18, 1999. Cherished widow of Herman Karpel. Most beloved mother of Roberta and Robert Silman, Susan and Morton Levine, Victoria and Nathan Fisher; grandmother of Miriam and David, Joshua and Denise, Ruth and Timothy, Richard and Patricia, Gary, Michele, Gabrie
 LANDAU-Beverly Hirsch. Of New York City and Southampton, New York. Passed away peacefully on August 17, 1999. Fashion Buyer, Theatrical Producer, Literary Agent, and most recently a Real Estate Broker. She will be deeply missed by her three children Todd, Joan Ogilvie and Larry, her mother 
 LYNES-Mildred Akin. 89, died on August 18, in North Egremont, MA. Formerly of New York City. She was the devoted wife of the late Russell Lynes, beloved mother of George P. Lynes II, of New York, and Elizabeth L. Hollander of Providence, RI; cherished grand mother of Daniel and Rachel Holla
 MAZUR-Sonia. Beloved mother of Beatrice Stoller and the late Solomon and Arnold, loving motherin-law of Dr. Elias R. Stoller and devoted grandmother of Joan and Laura. We will miss her charm, wisdom, humor and intellect. Services Friday, 12 noon, at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 Second
 MORRIS-Lillian H. Deceased on August 17 in Mill Valley, CA, at age 80. Her memory will be cherished by her devoted daughters, Roberta and Deborah; loving sister, Anne; devoted brother, Jerry and grandson Marc.       
 PACTER-Gertrude Geller. 94. Mrs. Pacter, a retired buyer for Associated Merchandising Corporation, passed away on August 13, 1999. She is survived by her sister Rose Drexler, nephews Paul and Richard Pacter and niece Marilyn Geller Block. She was a loving and giving person and all family an
 PALMER-Leona, L. In Beverly Hills, CA, of cancer, August 18, 1999, in her 80th year. Born in New York, September 23, 1918, Leona Palmer grew up in New York and relocated to California in 1950. Since then she became known as a tireless supporter and patron of the arts in California and abroa
 PARKER-Dr. Dorothy Inez. Died peacefully on July 30, 1999 at her home in White Plains, NY of congestive heart failure. Born in Traders Point, Indiana, January 23, 1910, she was the daughter of William C. and Clara Maines Parker. She is survived by a nephew Joe Carson Parker of Orlando, FL. 
 SAIDENBERG-Eleanore B. August 14, 1999, at age 88. Founder of Saidenberg Galleries. Beloved wife of the late Daniel, loving mother of Lawrence and Robert. Adored grandmother of Andrew, Leila, Steven, Richard, Jocelyn, Marc, Julie, Katherine, and Douglas. Cherished great grandmother of six. 
 SMITH-Rica (Nee Martens). Actress who appeared in such feature films as Living in Oblivion, Welcome to the Dollhouse and Box of Moonlight, and such Broadway shows as The Shrike and Laura, died August 11, 1999. She was the beloved mother of Laurel Smith and loving sister of Fred Martens, Eve
 Eleanore B. Saidenberg, the owner of an art gallery that for years was Picasso's primary representative in the United States, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. Born Eleanore Block in Chicago in 1911, Mrs. Saidenberg graduated from Finch College in New York and sta
 Kim Perrot, the tiny floor leader of the Houston Comets team that has won the first two Women's National Basketball Association championships, died here today. She was 32. She died at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center after a public battle against lung cancer. She
 CASSON-Hugh, Sir. The K. S. Giniger Company and its personnel, publishers of Sir Hugh's books on London, Oxford and Cambridge, mourn the passing of this distinguished author and illustrator and extends their deepest sympathy to Lady Casson and her daughters.       
 DICKSTEIN-Rosalind. Died suddenly August 18, 1999. She was the beloved wife of the late Abe Dickstein and devoted mother of Steven and daughter-in-law Janet. A most loving and caring grandmother of Nate. She will be deeply missed by her twin sister, MarionReimer, her brother Irving Greenber
 FREITAG-Peggy R., 96 passed away August 18, 1999 in Miami Beach of natural causes. Beloved mother of Buddy and Barbara Freitag, Selma and Robert Clein. Devoted grandmother of Larry and Debbie Freitag, Eve Freitag, Harry and Claudia Falk, Elizabeth and Peter Dranoff, Howard Clein, Ellen and 
 KARPEL-Phoebe Brand. On August 18, 1999. Cherished widow of Herman Karpel. Most beloved mother of Roberta and Robert Silman, Susan and Morton Levine, Victoria and Nathan Fisher; grandmother of Miriam and David, Joshua and Denise, Ruth and Timothy, Richard and Patricia, Gary, Michele, Gabrie
 LANDAU-Beverly Hirsch. The William B. May Company deeply mourns the loss of its dear friend and esteemed colleague. Bev's courage and determination continue to be an inspiration to us all. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Peter R. Marra President       
 LIPPEL-Rhoda. Tifereth IsraelTown & Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member and extends heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abigail Sosland President Carol J. Green       
 MARTZ-Rebecca. Died August 18, 1999. Beloved wife of Lawrence. Devoted mother of her children Peter Martz, the late Wendy Goldhirsh and son-in-law Bernard Goldhirsh, Dr. Brian Martz and daughter-in-law Loren Martz. Adored grandmother of Lila, Brandon, Jesse, Benjamin, and Elizabeth. Cherish
 PALMER-Leona, L. In Beverly Hills, CA, of cancer, August 18, 1999, in her 80th year. Born in New York, September 23, 1918, Leona Palmer grew up in New York and relocated to California in 1950. Since then she became known as a tireless supporter and patron of the arts in California and abroa
 SAIDENBERG - Eleanore. The Juilliard School community deeply mourns the death of Eleanore Saidenberg. A person of extraordinary intellect, grace and generosity, she and her husband Daniel greatly enhanced many programs at Juilliard through their vision and continuing support. We send our he
 SCHWARTZ-Lillian Linder, 68, of Lenox, Ma. and Sarasota, Fl. Died on Tuesday, August 17, 1999. She worked as a teacher and guidance counselor in the N.Y. City School System. She was a fighter for peace, social justice and a better world. She leaves her husband, Sol Schwartz; a son, David Sc
 SMITH-Rica (Nee Martens). Actress who appeared in such feature films as Living in Oblivion, Welcome to the Dollhouse and Box of Moonlight, and such Broadway shows as The Shrike and Laura, died August 11, 1999. She was the beloved mother of Laurel Smith and loving sister of Fred Martens, Eve
 STEINBERG-Rhoda Lippel. Beloved mother, sister, aunt, friend, teacher died August 17, 1999 after a long illness. Memorial services will be held Friday, August 20, 1999 at Town & Village Synagogue, 334 East 14 St., Noon. She will be remembered for her zest for life and joie de vivre.       
 WALTER-Elinor F. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Elinor F. Walter. We extend our deepest sympathy to her entire family. William Ettelson, President Michael Roth, Secretary       
 Altina Schinasi Miranda, who is credited with designing the flared-frame Harlequin eyeglasses, which first came into vogue in the late 1930's and which have made kitschy comebacks from time to time, died on Thursday at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 92. Mrs. Miranda came up with
 Eugenie Marron, a renowned big-game fisherwoman a half-century ago, died on Monday at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 99. In her heyday, Mrs. Marron, who lived in Brielle, N.J., and Palm Beach, Fla., held five world fishing records; one women's record, for a 722-pound sw
 Nancy Guild, a film actress who starred opposite some of the leading men of the 1940's and early 50's, died on Monday at her home in East Hampton, Long Island, after a long battle with emphysema. She was 73. Ms. Guild, whose full name was Nancy Guild Martin, was ''discovered'' in ol
 ALEXANDER-Hannah Margolis on August 19, 1999, of N.Y. City and East Quogue. Beloved wife of the late Josef; loving mother of Gregory, Jonathan, Matthew and the late Lewis.Cherished mother-inlaw of Karen, Hanita and Elaine. Adoring grandmother of Jessica, Gabriel, Daniel, Seth, Benjamin and 
 DICKSTEIN-Rosalind. Died suddenly August 18, 1999. She was the beloved wife of the late Abe Dickstein and devoted mother of Steven and daughter-in-law Janet. A most loving and caring grandmother of Nate. She will be deeply missed by her twin sister, MarionReimer, her brother Irving Greenber
 OSLER-Sonia Fellner. Born October 10, 1912 in Pruchnik, Poland; died August 16, 1999 in Columbia, Maryland. B.A. Hunter College, 1933, Ph.D. (Psychology), Johns Hopkins University, 1954. She had a varied career, serving as a manager with the New York City Housing Authority from the late 193
 SMITH-Rica (Nee Martens). Actress who appeared in such feature films as Living in Oblivion, Welcome to the Dollhouse and Box of Moonlight, and such Broadway shows as The Shrike and Laura, died August 11, 1999. She was the beloved mother of Laurel Smith and loving sister of Fred Martens, Eve
 ZICHT-Rhoda, on August 19th, 1999. Devoted wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Anita and the late Allen Fial and Lynne Winters. Beloved grandmother of Alison and Michael Greene, Barrie and Jonathan Fial, and Elizabeth Wurtzel. Darling great-grandmother of Jordan, Andrew, Dana, Darren, 
 Vera Krasovskaya, the dean of Russian ballet historians and a ballet writer who was highly respected in the West, died on Sunday at her home in St. Petersburg, Russia. She was 83. Ms. Krasovskaya came to ballet writing after a career as a dancer. She trained at the Leningrad Choreog
 ALEXANDER-Hannah Margolis on August 19, 1999, of N.Y. City and East Quogue. Beloved wife of the late Josef; loving mother of Gregory, Jonathan, Matthew and the late Lewis.Cherished mother-inlaw of Karen, Hanita and Elaine. Adoring grandmother of Jessica, Gabriel, Daniel, Seth, Benjamin and 
 ALSTON-Dana Ann. 47, activist in social and environmental justice movements, on Saturday, August 7, 1999 at California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. Dana was a native of New York and lived in Washington, D.C. She was in San Francisco for treatment of kidney disease and consequenc
 BROADHURST-Anne Truesdale, age 79 of Wilton, CT on August 17th. Past resident of New York and Long Island. Former wife of the late John C. Wood and the late William J. Broadhurst. Beloved mother of Lucy Voorhees Brotman and Sally Wood Post and grandmother of Coerte, Pieter and Sally Voorhee
 BULL-Joan. Mrs. Joan Bull lost her battle with cancer on August 13, 1999, at age 76. Joan was born on April 23, 1923, to Gertrude and William Schweitzer. She was raised in Hillside, NJ, and attended the Vail-Deane School and Wellesley College before moving to NYC. Joan began her committment
 BUTTERWEICH-Frances Lewis Levin. On August 20, 1999 in her 97th year. Beloved mother of Eleanor Spector (Edward) and Dr. Alfred C. Levin (Corinne). Cherished grandmother of Nancy Ryder (Peter), Jane Froehlich (William), Alfred C. Jr., Robert, Charles and Michael Levin. Loving sister of Sere
 CHURCHILL-Ruth Pierson. Died August 16th, one week before her 103rd birthday. Loving and proud mother of Emily Wood, Martha Drake, John, 10 grandchildren, and 18 great-grandchildren. Donations may be made to her beloved Smith College or Drew University.       
 COHEN-Jessie L. Died August 16, 1999, from complications of a stroke. A graduate of Cornell University, she was one of the founders of Trewhella, Cohen and Arbuckle (T/C/A) and was its president for 25 years. She was an early pioneer in adapting the power of the computer to the processing o
 DENEROFF-Ada. On August 20, 1999. Beloved wife of the late David. Loving mother of Leena, Stanley and Jeffrey. Adoring grandmother of Ivanne, Danielle and David. Dear aunt and greataunt. She will be profoundly missed. A gentle bird has gone to rest. Services Sunday, 12:15 PM, at ''The River
 FRIEDMANN-Freda (nee Feld), on August 19, 1999 in Miami Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Leon. Loving mother of Dr. Ruth and Robert Greenblatt. Adored grandmother of Barry and Karen Greenblatt, Dr. Larry Greenblatt and Dr. Cathleen Melton and Andrew Greenblatt, and Kim Bryan. Special ''N
 JENKS-Elisabeth R., M.D. Died of cancer at Calvary Hospital, Bronx, August 12. Born 1929, Cambridge, Mass. Attended Concord Academy, Swarthmore College, and Albert Einstein School of Medicine. Practiced psychiatry and was on the staff of Gouverneur Hospital. Wife of the late Emery I. Valyi 
 KENDALL-Ethel Mary. Devoted, loving mother and grandmother, died in Honolulu, Hawaii on July 8. Formerly Ethel Mary Arrance of Brooklyn, daughter of Anna and Augustus. Survived by daughter Linda, grandson Cie and brother Arthur Arrance. In her memory, please feed the homeless.       
 SEADER-Ruth. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Merrick, NY. Surviving her is devoted husband of 51 years, Dr. Saul Seader, three sons, a daughter, their spouses, three grandchildren, one brother and sister. Artist, author, editor, lecturer on spirituality and meditation, her selfless service a
 YEARWOOD-Anne. January 20, 1905-August 2, 1999. Teacher extraordinaire and all-around wonderful human being. She will be missed by Camille Johnson and family, many relatives and friends, and by her ''children,'' pupils of P.S. 54 and P.S. 20, Brooklyn. Services were held; a memorial will be
 Barbara White Fishman, an art director at advertising agencies who developed breast cancer and became a benefactor of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, died Thursday at the center. She was 60 and lived in Manhattan and in Remsenburg, N.Y., where she kept a studio. The caus
 Eva Shain, the first woman to serve as a judge at a heavyweight championship boxing match when she was assigned to the Muhammad Ali-Earnie Shavers bout at Madison Square Garden in 1977, died Thursday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital and Medical Center. Mrs. Shain, who lived in Fort Lee, N.J., w
 BAHNA-Geraldine Frances, Dr. To our supreme sorrow, Dr. Bahna of Manhattan died suddenly on Saturday, August 21. Dr. Bahna was a clinical psychologist with Leake and Watts in Yonkers, New York, and is a graduate of Yeshiva University, Albert Einstein College of Medicine. She was the beloved
 BROADHURST-Anne Truesdale, age 79 of Wilton, CT on August 17th. Past resident of New York and Long Island. Former wife of the late John C. Wood and the late William J. Broadhurst. Beloved mother of Lucy Voorhees Brotman and Sally Wood Post and grandmother of Coerte, Pieter and Sally Voorhee
 JENKS-Elisabeth R., M.D. Died of cancer at Calvary Hospital, Bronx, August 12. Born 1929, Cambridge, Mass. Attended Concord Academy, Swarthmore College, and Albert Einstein School of Medicine. Practiced psychiatry and was on the staff of Gouverneur Hospital. Wife of the late Emery I. Valyi 
 SAKOFF-Beatrice. 91, of Delray Beach, FL, died August 18, 1999. She was predeceased by her Husband, Harry. Survived by son, Jeffrey Sakoff and grandson Paul Sakoff, both of Boynton Beach. Donations to Hospice of choice.       
 SHULMAN-Etta S. Age 98. Former teacher, PS 104, Bayswater, Far Rockaway, NY, and volunteer at South Nassau Community Hospital, Oceanside, NY. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel. Dear mother of Adele Sacks and the late Michael Shulman. Cherished grandmother of Steven Sacks and the late Marjori
 WAGNER-Jonesy (Edna). She lit up the world for all who knew her. We shall miss her warmth, strength and determination. Our Barnard Quartet Helen Rachlin, Evelyn Colbert and Judith Lenert       
 WHEELOCK-Janet Buchanan. On August 21, 1999, at age 85. Beloved wife of the late Thomas G. Wheelock. Loving mother of Thomas G.B. and Stephen B. Wheelock. Cherished grandmother of Kate and Graham Wheelock. Service and interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to Vassar Coll
 Patricia Beer, a British poet concerned with death, theology and the mysteries of everyday existence,  died on Aug. 15. She was 79. The cause and place of her death were unavailable. Ms. Beer was among the few candidates for successor to Ted Hughes,  Britain's poet laureate,
 Sandra B. O'Leary, an economic adviser in three White House Administrations and a former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, died on Aug. 9 at her home in McLean, Va. She was 50. The cause was liver cancer, said her husband, James. Ms. O'Leary served as an economic adviser 
 BOGIN-Marie, 84, on August 12 in Ruidoso, NM. Devoted wife and mother. Former 25 year resident of New Canaan, CT. Predeceased by her loving husband, Milton, in 1992. Leaves only child, Rosemarie, and dear friend, James, both residents of Ruidoso, NM.       
 BRATTON-Elinor Bradfield. Succumbed to cancer in Greenwich Ct. Friday, August 20 after a long and gallant struggle which she handled with equanimity, humor and grace. A graduate of Western College for Women in Oxford, Ohio. She was a Readers Digest Research Editor, had worked at the Red Cro
 ENGLISH-Lillian. The Officers, Board of Trustees, Congregation and Clergy of The Jewish Center of The Hamptons, note with sadness the passing of Lillian English, mother of our devoted member, Roberta Roth. We extend condolences to Roberta and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra 
 GELMAN-Patti. Beloved wife of Gary, devoted daughter of Rose & the late Sidney Geringer, loving sister of Marcia Geringer Pickman. She was an attorney and Founder and President of the National Adrenal Diseases Foundation. Services are on Wednesday, at 10 A.M., at Riverside-Nassau North Chap
 GREENBAUM-Mindy. The Officers, Board of Governers, members and staff of the Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Mindy Greenbaum and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Robert and her family. Robert J. Capazzi, President Carol Rose, President Women's Group        
 JENKS-Elisabeth R., M.D. Died of cancer at Calvary Hospital, Bronx, August 12. Born 1929, Cambridge, Mass. Attended Concord Academy, Swarthmore College, and Albert Einstein School of Medicine. Practiced psychiatry and was on the staff of Gouverneur Hospital. Wife of the late Emery I. Valyi 
 KLEIN-Rose Vogel. On Monday, August 23, 1999 in Rockville, MD. Age 92. A beloved wife, devoted mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Rose was a lovely, lively, generous and beautiful woman. Her late husband Eugene was always so proud of her. Her children Judith and Leon, Harvey & Glori
 LEBOWITZ-Eva. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the death of our esteemed member and extends to her family our heartfelt condolences.       
 LEVINE-Lillian (nee Kronstadt). August 21, in her 93rd year in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Irving A. Levine. Loving and devoted mother of Mikki Fink (Dr. Lee) and Gerald Levine (Linda). Adored grandmother to Steven (Marion) and John Fink, Jodi (David) Avergun, Debbie 
 ORDWAY-Anna (Wheatland). Of Yorktown Heights, died Sunday, August 22, at her New York City home at 98 years of age. She is survived by her children, Ellen Ordway of Morris, MN, and her son, Samuel H. Ordway III of Weed, CA. She is also survived by two grandchildren, Richard W. Ordway and Da
 POLAKOFF-Gail. Our whole family grieves at the untimely passing of our dear Rebbetzin and wife of our beloved Rabbi Dale Polakoff. We extend our deepest sympathy to Rabbi Dale Polakoff, Efraim, Yosef, Ilana, Yehudah, Ariella, Lenora Rosen and family. The Katz-Sadinoff family POLAKOF
 WAYSEK-Helene C., Dr. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of Dr. Helene C. Waysek, Associate Professor of Comparative Literature & Language and Coordinator of the University Honors Program. Dr. Waysek, a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Douglass College, received an M.A. and Ph
 WEISS-Robin. Beloved wife of Andrew, after a courageous yearlong battle with lymphoma. She has been a Social Worker for the N.Y.S. OMRDD for 22 years. Her husband is the Senior Law Judge for N.Y.S. Workers' Comp. Board. She is also survived by her parents Beatrice and Jack Schwartzman, her 
 WHEELOCK-Janet Buchanan. On August 21, 1999, at age 85. Beloved wife of the late Thomas G. Wheelock. Loving mother of Thomas G.B. and Stephen B. Wheelock. Cherished grandmother of Kate and Graham Wheelock. Service and interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to Vassar Coll
 Martha Rountree, the co-creator and first moderator of the NBC News program ''Meet the Press,'' died on  Monday at Sibley Hospital in Washington. She was 87 and lived in Washington. On June 24, 1945, Ms. Rountree and Lawrence E. Spivak introduced the show on radio, unveiling it two 
 DAVIS-Jules. The members and staff of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Florida, wish to express their condolences to their fellow member Myra Davis and family on the passing of her husband Jules. The Board of Governors Bernard Howard, President       
 DAVIS-Maude Bouvier. Died New York City, Friday, August 20, 1999. Beloved wife of the late John E. Davis. Cherished mother of Maude Sergant Davis and John Hagy Davis. Devoted twin of the late Michelle Bouvier Putnam. Memorial service at St. Thomas More Church, 65 East 89 Street, New York Ci
 GILBERT-George. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Devoted father of Roni & Lona. Dear grandfather of Alan, & loving brother of Beatrice Sopenoff. Memorial service Sunday, August 29, 5:45 PM, Riverside, 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations to charity of choice. GILBERT-George. We exten
 GREENBAUM-Mindy. The Auxiliary notes with sorrow the passing of our good friend and volunteer, Mindy Greenbaum, and extends sincere condolences to her family. Andrea Weiss, Pres., Auxiliary North Shore University Hospital GREENBAUM-Mindy. Our beloved friend Mindy, you'll be in our h
 ORDWAY-Anna. A long time shareholder of 155 East 72nd Street, she will be missed by all. The Board of Directors 155 East 72nd Street Corp Jeb Embree, President       
 POLAKOFF-Gail. The Rabbeim, faculty, student body and entire Rambam family join the Great Neck community in mourning the passing of Rebbetzin Gail Polakoff a''h. Her inner strength and commitment to the community at large is an inspiration to us all. May Hashem comfort Rabbi Polakoff, Ephra
 STANNARD-Thelma Nuthall, 82. Died Sunday, August 22, 1999 at Forrestall Skilled Nursing and Rehab Center in Princeton, NJ. Born in Richmond Surrey, England, she immigrated to New York City some 50 years ago. She worked for British Airways in New York for approximately 30 years and was displ
 WHEELOCK-Janet Buchanan. On August 21, 1999, at age 85. Beloved wife of the late Thomas G. Wheelock. Loving mother of Thomas G.B. and Stephen B. Wheelock. Cherished grandmother of Kate and Graham Wheelock. Service and interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to Vassar Coll
 DAVIS-Maude Bouvier. Died New York City, Friday, August 20, 1999. Beloved wife of the late John E. Davis. Cherished mother of Maude Sergant Davis and John Hagy Davis. Devoted twin of the late Michelle Bouvier Putnam. Memorial service at St. Thomas More Church, 65 East 89 Street, New York Ci
 FRANCIS-Felice Harriman. On August 23, 1999, at her home in New York City. Devoted mother of George Hobson and Andre' Bishop and bemused but loving grandmother of Katharine Peach Bishop-Manning. Service will be in the Chapel of St. James Episcopal Church, Madison Ave and 71st St on Friday, 
 GLYNOS-Katherine. Beloved wife of the late Paul D. Glynos. Gracious, loving mother, grandmother and sister. Her family first, last and always; a wise friend to all who knew her. Lost her battle with cancer on the 24th of August. Beloved and admired mother of daughter Tina Levy and son-inlaw
 TOFANI-Margit Echols, 54, of Washington, NJ, a nationally known and exhibited quiltmaker, died August 23rd, at her home. She is survived by her husband musician, David Tofani and daughter Elizabeth. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, 1:30 P.M., at DeVoe Funeral Service, 136 West W
 GLYNOS-Katherine. Beloved wife of the late Paul D. Glynos. Gracious, loving mother, grandmother and sister. Her family first, last and always; a wise friend to all who knew her. Lost her battle with cancer on the 24th of August. Beloved and admired mother of daughter Tina Levy and son-inlaw
 MILLER-Jane, on August 26, 1999, in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Lester. Loving mother of Patricia Myerson, George (Louise) Miller and Allie (Ray) Roarke. Cherished grandmother of seven and great-grandmother of six. Services private.       
 MORSE-Linda. The administrative staff, faculty, house staff and students of the Department of Medicine at the NYU School of Medicine are deeply saddened by the untimely demise of Linda Morse of a long-standing illness with Lupus. She was a fine lady who was a loyal and devoted member of the
 Doris R. Schwartz, a nurse who did some of the earliest research on geriatric nursing care and whose findings led to improvements in health care for the elderly, died on Sunday at her home in Gwynedd, Pa. A former resident of Manhattan, Ms. Schwartz was 84 and had moved to the Foulk
 BROWN-Pauline (Kessler), on August 25, 1999, of Needham, MA, formerly of New York City. Beloved Wife of the late Harold M. Brown. Devoted Mother of Marion Just, and the late Tobia Frankel. Dear Grandmother of David Frankel, Margot Frankel Goldberg, Jonathan Frankel, Sara Just Treacy, Marjor
 FEINBERG-Sarah H. Survived by her nephew Paul Witkowsky and family of Radford, Virginia, and niece Victoria Feinberg of Port Jefferson Station, New York.       
 MORSE-Linda. The administrative staff, faculty, house staff and students of the Department of Medicine at the NYU School of Medicine are deeply saddened by the untimely demise of Linda Morse of a long-standing illness with Lupus. She was a fine lady who was a loyal and devoted member of the
 Tove (Musse) Hansen, who presided over Scandia, a popular Los Angeles restaurant in the 1950's and 60's, after helping Jews flee Denmark during World War II, died last Saturday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 88. In 1946, Ms. Hansen's husband, Kenneth, opened Scandia, a French a
 COLE-Joan Hanchrow. Of Seabrook Island, SC, 71, died August 14, 1999, from cancer. Mrs. Cole was born December 25, 1927 in New Rochelle, New York, a daughter of the late Ethel and Harry Hanchrow. She attended New Rochelle High School and graduated from Carleton College. Mrs. Cole was an act
 KAVANAU-Annie Elkan, age 89, died in New York City on August 23, 1999. Born on July 4, 1910 in Berlin, Germany. Beloved mother of Sally Kya-Hill, Lina Steckler, Margaret Kavanau; grandmother of five; great-grandmother of nine. Dear sister of Henriette Sonn, Lore Taussig. She will live on in
 LESSER-Shirley (nee Goldstein). Of Delray Beach, suddenly on August 25. Beloved wife of Dr. Herbert Lesser. Cherished mother of Betty and Seth Kaye and the late Bob Lesser. Adored grandmother of Andrew and the late Robbie Kaye. Her music and her memory will play on forever.       
 MAZUR-Barbara. On August 27, after a valiant two year battle with lymphoma. Most beloved mother of Ilana and David Peknay and Marc and Nora Mazur. Adored and cherished grandmother of William, Jamie, Alison and Matthew. Cherished sister of Arnold and Judith Vogel. Loving aunt and great-aunt.
 PAGANO-Deborah. The Creative Center for Women with Cancer wishes to express its profound sympathy to the family of Deborah Pagano, a cherished member of our Board of Directors. In addition to her clear vision, strength of spirit and wise judgment for which she was enormously valued, Debbie 
 ROSE-Sylvia P., 84, on August 2, 1999, in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. Until moving to Florida in 1996, Sylvia was a lifelong resident of New York City and enjoyed an exciting career, first in the film industry as assistant to J. Arthur Rank and Bob Benjamin, one of the founders of United Artis
 SCHWAB-Ruth L. On August 27, 1999, in New York City. Beloved wife of the late Joseph H. Schwab; adored mother of Fredrica S. Friedman and James L. Schwab; and mother in-law of Stephen J. Friedman and Amy A. Schwab; cherished grandmother of Vanessa and Alexander Friedman and Kate and Joanna 
 SEGAL-Marion Hasterlik. Of Miami Beach, FL, on August 20, 1999. Age 90. Born in Chicago, IL, past resident of Great Neck, NY. Adored wife of the late Arthur B. She is loved and greatly missed by her daughters Liz Berenson, Susan Glass, and Marjory Sheppard. Beloved mother-in-law to Joel Gla
 SLUTSKY-Emma Dressler, died at home peacefully on Saturday, August 21, 1999. She was born January 23, 1903. She was a graduate of the Juilliard School and was a member of the faculty of the Adamant Music School in Adamant, VT. where she taught piano for 30 years until her retirement in 1984
 WEISS-Robin. Beloved wife of my loving brother, Andrew S. Weiss. Her spirit will be in our hearts forever. In her courageous battle for life she showed devotion. To be with her was an inspiration. She gave so much of herself and left a legacy of bravery and strength. There will never be dar
 BITROS-Mara R. On August 27, 1999, at age 47. Beloved wife of James D. Bitros. Loving sister of Dennis B. McGrath and sister-inlaw of Elizabeth A. Buckley. Cherished aunt of Daniel S. McGrath, Amy S. McGrath and Felix Buckley-Jones. Adored stepmother of Nicole Libby. Caring owner of pet dog
 de FLINES-Margriet. Of Rowayton, CT, on August 28, 1999. Wife of Ernst de Flines. Mother of Tessa de Flines. She was an active volunteer for many years in the Rowayton Civic Association and Rowayton Library. Funeral services will be held at United Church of Rowayton, CT, on Tuesday, August 
 GREENE-Patricia E. (Trish), R.N., Ph.D., FAAN, age 50, Senior Vice President, Patient Services, Leukemia Society of America, an internationally recognized leader in oncology nursing, died peacefully on August 27, 1999, at her home in Stamford, CT, after a valiant struggle with cancer. Born 
 MAZUR-Barbara. On August 27, after a valiant two year battle with lymphoma. Most beloved mother of Ilana and David Peknay and Marc and Nora Mazur. Adored and cherished grandmother of William, Jamie, Alison and Matthew. Cherished sister of Arnold and Judith Vogel. Loving aunt and great-aunt.
 SCHWARTZ-Doris. The administrative and clinical staff of The Visiting Nurse Association of Brooklyn are saddened by the passing of its former colleague, Doris Schwartz. Ms. Schwartz served our agency in a leadership role for many years with skill and commitment. We will miss her. Ida O'Grad
 WATERS-Marjory Ann. On August 28, 1999, of Babylon, LI. Member of the Third Order of Franciscans. Cherished aunt, great-aunt and great-grandaunt. After many years as a secretary at J. Walter Thompson, she fulfilled her earliest ambitions and became a kindergarten teacher for 19 years at Nor
 Evelyn Shrifte, the longtime president of Vanguard Press, which published the first books of Saul Bellow, Dr. Seuss and Joyce Carol Oates, died on Aug. 8 at her home on the West Side of Manhattan. She was 98. Ms. Shrifte, whose name is pronounced ''Shrift,'' was one of the first wom
 BESS-Barbara E., MD. The New York County District Branch of the American Psychiatric Association mourns the loss of their esteemed colleague who departed this life on August 26, 1999. Dr. Bess was a former President, Co-President and Treasurer of the District Branch. Up to her death, she ch
 CARDON-Joan Ascher. Of Wheaton, MD, age 76, on Sunday August 29, 1999 at home. Born in New York City, daughter of the late Charles S., and Helen S. Ascher, she attended Bennington College and was a graduate of Columbia Presbyterian Hospital School of Nursing, and Columbia Teachers College. 
 duPONT-Emily Arden. Daughter of Michael and Beth duPont of Darien, CT., died peacefully on Saturday, August 28, 1999 from injuries sustained while competing in a horse show in Greenfield, MA. Emily grew up in Darien, graduated from Ox Ridge Elementary School and attended New Canaan Country 
 GOLDMAN-Rose. (nee Peshkes) Of Jersey City, NJ, on August 29, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Devoted mother of Adele Siegel, Dr. David Goldman and the late Elaine Lichtman. Adored mother-in-law of Stanley Siegel, Elizabeth Goldman and Jerome Lichtman. Loving grandmother of Linda and 
 GREENE-Patricia, R.N., PhD. The Leukemia Society of America mourns the loss of Trish Greene. Since joining the Society in 1996 as Sr. Vice President, Patient Services, she contributed in major ways to the advancement of the Society's mission. She was a guiding force in the development of th
 KOTLEWSKI-Teofila. The beloved wife of Dr. Marian Kotlewski died on August 27, 1999. She is survived by Dr. and Mrs. Adam Kotlewski of Arcadia, CA. and Dr. and Mrs. George Kotlewski of Amherst, NY and five grandchildren. She will be forever remembered and missed by family and friends. Servi
 LORENTZEN-Dorothy of Greenwich, CT., wife of Oivind Lorentzen, Jr., Mother of James B. Meeker, brother of John F. Holzinger, Jr., grandmother of two. Predeceased by her first husband Robert D.C. Meeker. Memorial services Friday, Sept. 3rd 11 AM, Christ Church, 254 East Putnam Ave., Greenwic
 NEAMAN-Cecilia. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society express profound sorrow at the loss of Cecilia Neaman of New York City and Oceanside, CA. Together with her husband, Sam, she was a legendary supporter of the American Technion Society, the Technion and Israel. T
 PAGANO-Deborah Kraus. Deborah, who until retiring to stay home with her children was a banker for over 20 years with the Chase Manhattan Bank, died on August 27 of breast cancer in Avalon, N.J. She was 46 and lived in Manhattan and Upper Black Eddy, Pa. A member of one of the earliest class
