 Miriam Schlein, whose nearly one hundred books, written over half a century, taught very young children about animals and concepts like time and space, died on Nov. 23 in New York. She was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was vasculitis, an inflammation of the blood vessels, her
 Dame Alicia Markova, one of the greatest British ballerinas of the 20th century, co-founder of the company now known as the English National Ballet and a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, died yesterday in Bath, England, the English National Ballet announced. She was 94.    
 Maude Lloyd, a dramatically expressive ballerina who became an articulate dance critic, writing in collaboration with her husband, Nigel Gosling, died on Nov. 26 at her home in London. She was 96. She died after a brief hospitalization, said John Percival, a British freelance dance 
 Mona Van Duyn, a poet laureate and Pulitzer Prize winner who spoke with a distinctly female voice from suburbia, died on Thursday at her home in suburban St. Louis. She was 83. Her death was announced by Alfred A. Knopf, which published her ''Selected Poems'' two years ago. Her firs
 Frances Chaney, a radio star whose budding film career was stifled after she and her husband, Ring Lardner Jr., were placed on a Hollywood blacklist, died on Nov. 23 at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. Ms. Chaney, who had Alzheimer's disease, died in her sleep, said her son James.
 Mary Bertina Carter Hunter, an arts patron and collector who served on New York City's advisory Art Commission under Mayor Abraham D. Beame, died on Nov. 23 in Newport News, Va. A former resident of Greenwich Village, she was 92. Her death was announced by the Studio Museum in Harle
 Rachael Dunaven Yocom, a dance educator and theorist, died on Nov. 14 in Tucson, said Cora Cahan, president of the New 42nd Street redevelopment organization and a former student. She was 88. Born in Corvallis, Ore., Dr. Yocom taught dance at schools and universities in Oregon, Idah
 Bernarda Bryson Shahn, the widow of the painter Ben Shahn, who won her own recognition as an artist late in life, died on Sunday at her home in Roosevelt, N.J., her son, Jonathan Shahn, said. She was 101. Ms. Shahn, who began her career as a writer, printmaker and illustrator, was b
 Agnes Martin, an American painter whose luminous fields of pale color traversed by hand-drawn pencil lines preserved the Romantic spirit of Abstract Expressionism and prefigured the austerities of Minimalism, died yesterday in a retirement community in Taos, N.M. She was 92 and had 
 Henny Backus, the widow of the comic actor Jim Backus and an actress and author of wit and verve, died on Dec. 9 in Los Angeles, her longtime home. She was 93. She died after a series of strokes, said a friend, Doris Bacon. Mrs. Backus, a leggy redhead with a droll sense of 
 The soprano Renata Tebaldi, one of the most beloved opera singers of all time -- Arturo Toscanini, hard to please, said she had ''the voice of an angel'' -- died yesterday in the Republic of San Marino, where she had a home, her doctor told The Associated Press. Miss Tebaldi, who had been i
 Gretchen Bender, an artist who worked in several photographic and film mediums, died on Sunday at her Manhattan home. She was 53. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Bender belonged to the generation of early 1980's Pictures artists, who included Jack Goldstein, Cindy
 Anne Truitt, a sculptor and writer widely admired for her painted, columnar structures and for her published journals about her life as an artist, died on Thursday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. She was 83 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications of abdominal
 Freda Flier Maddow, an early Martha Graham dancer, died on Dec. 11 in Los Angeles. She was 87, and lived in Los Angeles. Her death was announced by her daughter Ellen Maddow. Ms. Maddow, who performed as Freda Flier, trained and danced in Los Angeles with Benjamin Zemach and
 Susan Sontag, the novelist, essayist and critic whose impassioned advocacy of the avant-garde and equally impassioned political pronouncements made her one of the most lionized presences -- and one of the most polarizing -- in 20th-century letters, died yesterday morning in Manhattan, where
 Sylvia Herscher, whose 50-year career in theater included stints as an agent, a general manager and a producer, died on Wednesday at her home in New York, her son David said. She was 91. When Ms. Herscher received a special Tony Award in 2000, she modestly credited her long career t
