 Edythe Gaines, a prominent educator who in the 1960's and 70's was one of the highest ranking black officials in the New York City public school system, died on March 23 in Hartford. She was 83. Ms. Gaines died of natural causes, said her son Richard. From 1973 to 1975, Ms. 
 ANDERBERG--Elinor Drews. 89. Died March 28, 2006. She was predeceased by her sisters Mary Ralston Kenney, Jannet Douglass and her brother Edward and is survived by three nieces, two great nephews and one great niece. She was born on Staten Island on January 21, 1916, educated in White Plain
 REEDE--Barbara S. Respect for Law Alliance Inc., notes with extreme sadness the passing of its Founding Director, Officer and valued friend, Barbara. Deepest condolences to her children Amy and Ronald and to her mother Bernice. Serivces at Schwartz Bros., 114-03 Queens Blvd. 718-263-7600, S
 SILVERMAN -- Joan Hope. Daughter of Marty and Dorothy Silverman, died peacefully on March 28 surrounded by her family. She was the devoted mother of Garey, Tracey, Jeremy, Marna, and David; loving sister of Carol and Lorin; and ecstatic grandmother of Abigail. She will be remembered for the
 STEINHARDT--Jean Stettheimer. A consistent and significant contributor to many Santa Barbara charities and organizations, Jean Stettheimer Steinhardt passed away on Saturday, March 25. She was the daughter of the late Florence and Walter Stettheimer of Atherton, CA, the sister of the late B
 Stella Snead, a British Surrealist painter and collage artist who fled wartime Europe to work in the United States and later became a photographer noted for her books on India, died on March 18 in New York. She was 96. Her dealer, Pavel Zoubok, said she died of natural causes at the
 CORSINI--Ray Pierre, nee Eisenstein, a pioneering journalist/editor, who influenced American publishing for much of her 95 years, passed away March 18. With her mother, she made the arduous journey from revolutionary Russia to Americain 1916. Initially unable to speak English, she earned BA
 DOERFLER--Beatrice. On March 30, 2006. Beloved mother of Stephanie and her husband Michael and the late Nicholas. Cherished grandmother of Alexandra. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. For funeral information call Frank E. Campbell at 212-288-3500.       
 GALLAGHER--Sylvie H. Of Brooklyn Heights died February 8. Memorial on April 8, at Plymouth Church, 75 Hicks St, Brooklyn, 11:00 A.M. She is survived by her son David Hamilton, grandchildren Eve and Josh Hamilton and greatgranddaughters Kalia and Amelia Hamilton.       
 GOTTLIEB--Anita Bobrow. Died March 21. Services were private. She leaves a beloved brother Kenneth Bobrow and niece Kate Bobrow-Strain. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Kidney Foundation.       
 LASOFF--Gladys. The splendid legacy of her journey among us prompts a generous borrowing from Shakespeare's JULIUS CAESAR: ''Her life was gentle, and the elements so mixed in her that nature might stand up and say to all the world, ''This, indeed, was a Woman!'' Surfaced from early leadersh
 LEVINE -- Esther Edelman, Ph.D. Age 82, died tragically Friday. Warm, funny, intelligent, caring, friend to all. Graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Brooklyn College. Obtained Ph.D. in clinical pysychology from NYU. Professor and Associate Dean of Educational Psychology at Queens College. She lov
 PFLUEGER - Kiyi. The Trustees, Director and Staff of The Musuem of Fine Arts, Boston, mourn the passing of Kiyi Pflueger, who with her late husband Edward, formed one of the most distinguished collections of European ceramics of the 20th century. Noted for their connoisseurship and generosi
 SCHLAFFER--Helen. Attorney, born in Oshawa, Canada, died on March 26, 2006. Wife of the late Alex Schlaffer. Daughter of the Reverend Vladamir Kupchynski and Theodora. She practiced law with her sister Olga Kupchin, also an attorney, among the Ukranian immigrants who came to the US after WW
 SILVERMAN -- Joan Hope. Daughter of Marty and Dorothy Silverman, died peacefully on March 28 surrounded by her family. She was the devoted mother of Garey, Tracey, Jeremy, Marna, and David; loving sister of Carol and Lorin; and ecstatic grandmother of Abigail. She will be remembered for the
 STEINHARDT--Jean Stettheimer. A consistent and significant contributor to many Santa Barbara charities and organizations, Jean Stettheimer Steinhardt passed away on Saturday, March 25. She was the daughter of the late Florence and Walter Stettheimer of Atherton, CA, the sister of the late B
 BROWN--Patricia Freeman. Beloved wife of the late Lees S. Brown. Loving mother of Alison and David, and dear sister of Joan Freeman Williams. Her gentle, caring spirit and beautiful mind touched more people than we will ever know. Patricia was an active member of the Audubon Society.       
 FEINSTONE--Loraine (nee Avrutine). Beloved wife of the late Morton Cohen and Emanuel Feinstone. Adored mother of Ellen Klein Meyer. Loving grandmother of Marcie and Tony Klein and greatgrandmother of Blake and step-mother of Harriette, Maris and Ina. She was a most elegant, passionate and g
 MILLIGAN--Phoebe Zaslove. Well - known investment banking executive and sponsor of the musical arts, died on April 1, 2006, at her home in Newport, RI, at the age of 52. She was surrounded by her family. Born Phoebe Butler Zaslove on June 12, 1953, to Jean and Herbert Zaslove in Kingston, T
 PFLUEGER--Kathleen Isabel Powers (Kiyi). On March 30, after a long illness, the wife of the late Edward M. Pflueger. Together they amassed one of the finest privately held 16th and 17th century faience and 18th century porcelain collections now bequeathed to the Boston Museum of Fine Arts. 
 SCHLAFFER--Helen. Attorney, born in Oshawa, Canada, died on March 26, 2006. Wife of the late Alex Schlaffer. Daughter of the Reverend Vladamir Kupchynski and Theodora. She practiced law with her sister Olga Kupchin, also an attorney, among the Ukranian immigrants who came to the US after WW
 Doris W. Jones, who found the doors shut to her when she tried to learn ballet as an aspiring black dancer but who went on to open them for succeeding generations, running ballet schools for black youngsters and training a roster of notable dancers and choreographers, died on March 21 in Wa
 FIERMAN--Evelyn Golden. Died peacefully at age 89 on March 31, 2006 surrounded by her family. Wife of the late Dr. J. Harry Fierman; mother of Priscilla, Marcia, Arlene, and Jaclyn; grandmother of Jennifer, Stefanie, Craig, Daniel, Sara, Melanie, Michelle, Kate, Lily, and Oliver; greatgrand
 SILVERMAN -- Joan Hope. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of Joan Silverman, beloved daughter of the late Dorothy Silverman and Marty Silverman, former member of the YU Board of Trustees and Benefactor of YU and our Albert Einstein College of Medicine. We extend our h
 CHAMBERLAIN--Naomi. A highly respected colleague and a much beloved friend. Our deepest sympathy to all who knew and loved Naomi, and especially to her devoted sister Olivia. Robert Newman and Family       
 FEINSTONE--Loraine. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of dear friend and fellow member, Loraine Feinstone. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her daughter, Ellen and the entire family. Allen J. Ross President       
 Belle Mayer Zeck, a lawyer who began her career as one of the few women to serve as prosecutors at the Nuremberg trials, died on March 18 at her home in Suffern, N.Y. She was 87. Her death was announced by her son, John Zeck. Ms. Zeck was part of a team that prosecuted offic
 Kathleen Powers Pflueger, owner of one of the world's great collections of 18th-century porcelain and 16th- and 17-century faience, a form of earthenware, died on March 30 surrounded by her pieces in the Park Avenue apartment that she had designed to house them. She was 90. Her deat
 DUNCAN--Charlotte M. ''Betty'' died Saturday, April 1, 2006. She was 89. She was born in Geneva, New York on November 25, 1916 to George and Charlotte Mulchay. She graduated with a BA from SUNY Buffalo and received her Master's in nursing from Yale University School of Nursing. A resident o
 QUICK--Regina Clarkson. Of North Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Laurel Hollow, NY, died peacefully on April 3, 2006. She was the loving daughter of the late Thomas and Mary Clarkson. Beloved wife of the late Leslie C. Quick, Jr. Loving mother of Leslie C. Quick III of Bernardsville, NJ, Thomas
 VAN DYNE--Esther, 89 years old. Died on April 3, 2006. Beloved wife of the late George Van Dyne. Devoted mother of Phyllis Van Dyne & Lenore and David Kristof. Loving sister-in-law of Dr. Joseph Roger Van Dyne. Graveside services on Wednesday 11 AM at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY. Donati
 WEITZMAN--Yaffa. Her soft, intense glow warmed and uplifted everyone she touched. All our love, Jerrold and C. Jeremy       
 ELAN--Sarita. Beloved mother of Nina & Raymond; loving grandmother of Michelle; cherished aunt of many. Her inner beauty will live forever. Services Sunday, 10 AM at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, L.I.       
 FELDMAN - Carol. With deepest sadness, I announce the death of my beloved wife, Carol Feldman. She died in Rome on March 18 following unsuccessful surgery to alleviate a long-standing and painful abdominal condition. She was much loved, and she helped create a new field of research relating
 FLEMING--Penny. A longtime ABC News Producer, died Monday, April 3, 2006 of pancreatic cancer. Penny spent the last 15 years producing stories for 20/20. Before coming to ABC, Penny was a producer at NBC and ''The Today Show.'' She is survived by her daughters, Emma and Abby, stepsons Scott
 GLANCY--Maida. Passed away peacefully at her residence on March 29, 2006. Devoted wife of the late Kenneth. She is also survived by her stepdaughter Suzanne Gallagher. Also survived by her loving cousin Carole Klepper and her devoted friends.       
 QUICK--Regina. The trustees, faculty and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are deeply saddened at the passing of Regina (Jean) Clarkson Quick. Mrs. Quick was a generous supporter of the Laboratory, together with her husband, Leslie C. Quick, Jr., during his tenure on our Board of Trust
 SIEGEL--Miriam. The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of God's Love We Deliver note with sadness the passing of Miriam Siegel, mother of our devoted Board Member, Judith Siegel-Baum, Esq. We send our heartfelt condolences to Judith, her bereaved father, Sherman, and the Siegel family
 TARTALSKY--Florence R. Age 95, passed away quietly April 4, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Harry and loving mother of the late Michael and Marcia, daughter of the late Max and Ethel Rubins. She was devoted to her grandchildren James Seth Sternberg, Jeffrey Arthur Sternberg, Brian Howard Tar
 YANG--Von Sung. On her birthday. Trustee-China Institute; endowed Ho Ching Yang Chair - Bloomberg School/ Johns Hopkins. We miss you. Kathy and Nicholas       
 CREGAN--Doris Jean Roy. Of Pawleys Island, S.C. passed away on April 5, 2006 at her home surrounded by her family and friends. Mrs. Cregan was born in Sheepshead Bay, NY to the late Helen Casey Roy and Frederick Patrick Roy on September 14, 1930. Mrs. Cregan raised her family with her devot
 JOHNSON--Cherry. Age 82 of West Palm Beach, FL., formerly of Delray Beach, FL and New York City, on April 3, 2006. Beloved mother of Robin Johnson of New York City; sister of Tony Hannan of Duxbury, MA; predeceased by beloved husband, Blake Johnson and her parents, John Lennox Hannan and Es
 KUGEL -- Adelaide Roth ''Chig''. Beloved mother of Tina Hirsch, James, Candy, and Robert Kugel. Loving grandmother of six. Services Friday 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. KUGEL -- Adelaide. The Board of Directors and shareholders of the Kenilworth a
 LANDSMAN--Blossom. Died peacefully on April 4, after a brief illness. She was the daughter of George J. and Frances K. Weinstock and the sister of Rita Weinstock, and was predeceased by Martin B. Colwin, Jr, and James A. Landsman. She is survived by her loving daughters Margaret (Peggy) Ker
 LEE--Frances P. Died on April 5 at her home with family and friends by her side. A survivor of numerous health challenges since childhood and a pioneering open-heart surgery patient in 1970, she maintained her grace and beauty to the very end. She is predeceased by her parents, Albert and B
 WAGNER--Sima. It is with great sadness we announce the passing of Sima Wagner. For sixty-six years Sima was the devoted wife of Rubin Wagner, who survives her, the loving mother of Harry and Myra, Leon and Marsha and grandmother of Elliot, Lauren, Gabriel and Daniel. Born in Vilna, now Viln
 WEINRIB--Sylvia (Sush). My dearest aunt died in Israel on April 5th. She lived her ideals and was generous with love. Sharon       
 YOWELL--Gilberte Cazes. Beloved wife of the late Daniel Yowell. Loving mother of Linda, Debora, Alan and Robert; loving mother-inlaw of Richard Zuckerman, Richard Alberts and Mara Mikialian. Adored grandmother of Julia, Emily, Jackson, Marguerite, and Henry. Her family will always be inspir
 Maggie Dixon, who coached the women's basketball team at Army to its first N.C.A.A. tournament last month, died Thursday at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 28. Dr. Millard J. Hyland, the Westchester County medical examiner, performed an autopsy yesterday and sai
 QUICK--Regina. A great woman who was loved by all who knew her. She was full of love and compassion for those in need, and was always generous, kind and ready to offer support in so many ways. Jean had a ready smile and a warm and loving way about her that made you feel special...even if sh
 WAGNER--Sima. It is with great sadness we announce the passing of Sima Wagner. For sixty-six years Sima was the devoted wife of Rubin Wagner, who survives her, the loving mother of Harry and Myra, Leon and Marsha and grandmother of Elliot, Lauren, Gabriel and Daniel. Born in Vilna, now Viln
 APTON--Erna Neu. Of Reston, VA, and NYC, died April 4, 2006, in Sarasota, FL, at age 101. Beloved wife of deceased plastic surgeon Adolph Apton. Survived by son Ralph Apton of Great Falls, VA; grandchildren Kory Kim Apton (Griffin) of NYC and Keith Apton of DC; greatgrandchildren Riley Ray 
 BLUSTEIN--Pearl. On April 7, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Herman. Loving mother of Fredda Tourin and her husband Mark. She will be deeply missed. Service Sunday, 9:45 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 BOSE--Catherine Elizabeth. With great sadness, The Buckley School of New York City announces the death of our beloved math specialist, Cathy Bose. An alumna of The Spence School, Wheelock College, Teacher's College, Columbia University and The Bank Street School of Education, Miss Bose devo
 BOYER--Renee S. A lifelong resident of Manhattan. Passed away April 3, 2006. She was preceded in death by her parents, Nicholas and Victoria Szabo, four brothers, Nicholas, Arpad, Cornell and Lorain and two sisters, Juliette Vogt and Violet Applegate. She is survived by her loving son, Blai
 GOLD--Leona. Died April 6, 2006 at age 91. Loving wife of the late Isadore, devoted mother to Daniel and the late Robert, and beloved sister of Harold Cotton. Cherished grandmother of David, Michael and Abigail. Respected and longtime employee and board member of The Henry Street Settlement
 JASPAR--Gina, nee Virginia Diviny, of New Rochelle, New York, died April 6 after a brief illness. Born February 3, 1932 to Ellen and Thomas F. Diviny, she grew up in Long Island City, New York, attended St. Mary's Grammar School and Blessed Sacrament High School, and graduated from New York
 JOHNSON -- Claire Stenz. Passed away peacefully on April 5, 2006, at her home, having recently celebrated her 100th birthday with her family and friends in her indisputable class and style. She loved beauty. She was the daughter of the late Bernard F. Stenz and Julie Mackin Stenz, and the w
 LANDSMAN--Blossom. Died peacefully on April 4, after a brief illness. She was the daughter of George J. and Frances K. Weinstock and the sister of Rita Weinstock, and was predeceased by Martin B. Colwin, Jr, and James A. Landsman. She is survived by her loving daughters Margaret (Peggy) Ker
 PILCHER--Elizabeth Killiam, 91. Died April 4, 2006 at home in Southbury, CT. Formerly of NYC. Wife of the late William Frederick Pilcher. Born in Great Barrington, MA, she graduated from the Buckingham School, Radcliffe College and earned diplomas from the Longy School of Music and the Amer
 QUICK--Regina. A great woman who was loved by all who knew her. She was full of love and compassion for those in need, and was always generous, kind and ready to offer support in so many ways. Jean had a ready smile and a warm and loving way about her that made you feel special...even if sh
 SOHMER--Millie (nee Braunstein), widow of Dr. Abram Sohmer of Jamaica, N.Y. died April 6, 2006 in Los Angeles. She was 90 years of age. An immigrant girl who lived an American dream, Millie and her parents arrived from England penniless. Hardworking and industrious, Millie determined to edu
 WAGNER--Sima. It is with great sadness we announce the passing of Sima Wagner. For sixty-six years Sima was the devoted wife of Rubin Wagner, who survives her, the loving mother of Harry and Myra, Leon and Marsha and grandmother of Elliot, Lauren, Gabriel and Daniel. Born in Vilna, now Viln
 WANDERMAN -- Jeannette Boskoff. Of Manhattan, on April 7, 2006, age 95. From complications suffered after a broken hip. A graduate of New York University, Miss Brooklyn in the Civil Service Beauty Contest of 1945, and for many years a social case worker for the City of New York's Department
 COHEN--Shirley Pollan, my loving mother, passed away on April 6, 2006. My mother was a proud and vivacious woman who raised herself up to become a loving mother, grandmother and sister. She felt very deeply about many things and expressed it through her eloquent poetry. She was passionate a
 BARON--Elizabeth, 64, of Pittsboro, NC, died April 8, 2006. She is survived by her loving husband Jules; her mother, Violet Stellon; brother, John; stepdaughters, Dale, Amy and Jennifer; their husbands; and her five adoring grandsons. All will miss her loving, passionate, joyful spirit. In 
 JOHNSON -- Claire Stenz. Passed away peacefully on April 5, 2006, at her home, having recently celebrated her 100th birthday with her family and friends in her indisputable class and style. She loved beauty. She was the daughter of the late Bernard F. Stenz and Julie Mackin Stenz, and the w
 MAYER--Bertel. 97, on April 7, 2006. Daughter of the late Dr. Siegfried and Eugenie Guggenheim of Offenbach A/M, wife of the late Dr. Martin E. Mayer. Beloved mother of Helen Lancberg, loving grandmother of Karen and Alan Salzbank and Erica Procton. Great-grandmother of Zachary, Sara, Alex 
 SELIG--Martha K. It is with great sadness we announce the passing of Martha K. Selig. She was 93 years old and died of heart failure on April 8th, at home, peacefully in her sleep. She was known for her pioneering leadership in the field of social work, but the passion closest to her heart 
 CREIGHTON MURRAY--Elizabeth. On April 4, 2006. Poet. Her poetry, which appeared in publications in America and Europe, was highly regarded by critics and writers. Funeral service private. Donations to a local charity in her memory would be appreciated.       
 Gretchen Rau, a noted Hollywood set decorator who earned an Academy Award last month for her work on ''Memoirs of a Geisha,'' died on March 29 at her home in Northport, N.Y. She was 66. The cause was a brain tumor, her family said. Lavishly decorated, ''Memoirs of a Geisha''
 BERNS--Barrie, 92. Of New York City. She was the wife of ''Mike'' Bernes, beloved mother of Toni of Edwards, CO, Michael of New York City and Peter of Greenwich, Connecticut, and grandmother of Tiffany, Mathew, Sabrina and Robert. She has been the Vice President of Roburn Agencies, an inter
 GOLD--Leona passed away peacefully at the age of 91. Leona was for many years treasurer & in charge of finances at the Henry Street Settlement. After she retired from the staff she became a member of the Board of Directors. She retired from the Board to move to Texas to be with her family. 
 KALB--Alice Rosalind (nee Fuchs), April 8 at 85. Died peacefully in Palm Beach. Formerly of Montclair, NJ, where she lived with her beloved late husband Irving Kalb. Loving mother of Richard L. Kalb and Lisa Kalb Schaffer (Perry). Adored sister, sister-in-law, aunt and friend. Service Tuesd
 MORGAN -- Denise. The trustees, dean, faculty, students, staff and alumni of New York Law School mourn the death of our beloved colleague, teacher, and friend, Professor Denise Morgan in Chicago on April 8 at the age of 41. She was an extraordinary colleague. Her passing leaves a huge void 
 NORINSBERG--Susan. Beloved mother of our dear friend Barbara Nelkin, loving grandmother and greatgrandmother. May her memory be for a blessing. Louise and Bob Hersh and family       
 SELIG--Martha. The world is a much better place because of the passion, dedication, and selflessness you displayed. You were an incredible friend and teacher. Your legacy will continue through your wonderful family and the countless students who had the honor to learn from you. We extend co
 ZIPSER--Adele. Wife of Phil, mother of Ann (Geoff) Dilliu, Joan (Burt) Horn, grandmother of Abby, Zach, Chris, Max, Sarah, sister of Ruth (Sid) Ross, Sylvia Schur. Loved by her family and friends who will miss her love, spirit and spunk.       
 Elizabeth Maguire, a prominent New York editor who was most recently vice president and publisher of Basic Books, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 47 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was ovarian cancer, her companion, Karen Wolny, said. Ms. Maguire
 BEINECKE--Helen. The BideA-Wee Home Association's Board of Directors and Staff mourn the passing of Helen Beinecke and wish to recognize her many years of support and Board membership. We extend our sympathy to her family. William A. Dueker, Jr. Chairman Jane S. Englebardt President, CEO   
 MOHACSY--Ildiko on April 10. Survived by her beloved son Nicholas. Adoring grandmother of April. She was affiliated with Mt. Sinai School of Medicine and The William Alanson White Institute. She was the author of many important papers on psychotherapy. Contributions in her name may be sent 
 NORINSBERG -- Susan (Schenker), we mourn the loss of our much loved mother in her 100th year. She was the loved & devoted wife of the late Jack Norinsberg and the loving mother of Barbara and Myron Nelkin and Robert Norinsberg, as well as the loving aunt of Sheila and Dr. Victor Fink. Her l
 SELIG--Martha K. The Columbia University School of Social Work notes with great sadness the death of Martha K. Selig, a 1939 graduate whose commitment and creative leadership in professional social work training and Jewish communal services inspired and advanced the continuing excellence of
 ZIPSER--Adele. Wife of Phil, mother of Ann (Geoff) Billiu, Joan (Burt) Horn, grandmother of Abby, Zach, Chris, Max, Sarah, sister of Ruth (Sid) Ross, Sylvia Schur. Loved by her family and friends who will miss her love, spirit and spunk.       
 COUNDOURIS--Evelyn (nee Fondulis). Of Port Washington NY on April 9, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Devoted mother of Ioanna and David Moore. Cherished grandmother of Alexis and Christopher. Survived also by loving family and friends. Reposing at Fairchild Funeral Home, 1507 Norther
 BEINECKE--Helen B. Died at her home on Monday, April 10. Her funeral service will be held at Saint Marks Episcopal Church in West Hampton Beach on Monday, April 17 at 10 AM. Interment will be immediately following. She was preceded by husband Edwin J. Beinecke Jr. She is survived by a daugh
 KERNBERG--Paulina, M.D. Weill Medical College of Cornell University and New York-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of our respected friend and colleague Dr. Paulina Kernberg, professor of psychiatry at Weill Cornell, and director of child and adolescent residency training and founder 
 SELIG--Martha K. We remember Martha as a mentor, a friend, and an advocate whose life's work was to impact countless lives. A pioneer and a pillar in the Jewish community, she inspired us all. The Jewish Museum Leni May, Chairman Barry Alperin, President Joan Rosenbaum, Director       
 COUNDOURIS--Evelyn (nee Fondulis). Of Port Washington NY on April 9, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Devoted mother of Ioanna and David Moore. Cherished grandmother of Alexis and Christopher. Survived also by loving family and friends. Reposing at Fairchild Funeral Home, 1507 Norther
 BERNEY--Bess, 102. Died April 6 in Brewster, MA. She was the wife of the late Charles Berney. Mrs. Berney was born in Philadelphia. At age 18 she sang in the Metropolitan Opera Chorus in NY. She then attended the University of Southern California and worked with archeologist Charles Lummis 
 EHRENFELD - Joan. On April 11, 2006. Beloved mother of Richard, Robert and the late Jeffrey and mother-inlaw of Joy, Paula and Betsy. Loving sister of Lawrence Knobe. Adoring grandmother of Daniel, Steven, Julia, Joshua, William and Jamie. Contributions in her name may be made to the Americ
 FRIEDLER - Sylvia. Died April 11, 2006 peacefully of natural causes in New Rochelle, NY at age 99. The loving wife of the late Reverend Saul Friedler, she will be missed by her family and community. The family will not be receiving visitors and donations can be sent to: Beth El Synagogue, S
 KERNBERG--Paulina., M.D. Of Scarsdale, NY, died April 12, 2006 at age 71. Born January 10, 1935 in Santiago, Chile to Isaac and Rebecca (Ostray) Fischer. Dr. Kernberg was an eminent child psychiatrist and psychoanalyst. She was a Professor of Psychiatry at the Weill Medical College of Corne
 PARLES--Gertrude. Passed peacefully at the age of 96 on April 12, 2006. Devoted wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of Stephen, Tani and Richard. Cherished grandmother of Jamie and Karen, Craig and Lisa, Peter and Anne, Jill and Christopher. Adoring great-grandmother of Christopher, Case
 PERALTA-RAMOS--Inga Lucia. Passed away April 2, 2006. Married to Standard Oil heir Paul Peralta-Ramos in 1959. She was active as a Board member of the Children's East Harlem Tutorial Program, and the Millicent Rogers Museum in Taos, New Mexico. She also volunteered her time to the children'
 PHILLIPS--Anne Marie, MD, 56, Avon, CT, wife of Dr. Walter M. Phillips died April 11, 2006. She was an eminent clinical and forensic psychologist in Connecticut. Survived by a son, Jonathan, daughter Elizabeth, brother Dr. Joseph M. Boyle. Calling hours Monday 6-9 P.M., Vincent Funeral Home
 ROSEN--Rosalind P. On April 13, 2006. Beloved wife of Morton. Devoted mother of Emily & Jacqueline Kopelan (Brett), and daughter of Leona Poss. Services Sunday, April 16, 12 noon, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Ave. and 91st St., NYC, family will be sitting following burial and on
 MORSE - Barbara. Temple Beth El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our member, Barbara Morse. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 NOVOD--Edith Friedman. Died April 14, 2006, at 88. Beloved wife of the late New York State Senator Gordon I. Novod; loving mother of Joanne Schechter, Lewis Novod and the late Helen Novod Upton, sons-in-law Loren Schechter and Elliott Upton and daughter-in-laws Sheila Novod and Sally Fische
 PELL--Julia Lorillard Wampage of Middletown, Rhode Island, died of lung cancer on April 13, 2006, at Newport Hospital surrounded by her loving family. She was born in Washington, D.C. on May 9, 1953. She is survived by her life-partner, Julie Smith, her step-daughter, Elise McCaffrey, her p
 ROFFMAN--Helen, 91. Passed away April 14, 2006. Beloved wife of Bernie, wonderful mother of Bonnie Marcus (Norman), Linda Simpson (Daniel) & Herbert (Emma); the best Grandma to Jason, Joshua, Matthew, Annie, Adam, Scott and Ali; Great-Grandma to Maddie and Brigi. A warm, generous and gutsy 
 ROSEN--Rosalind P. On April 13, 2006. Beloved wife of Morton. Devoted mother of Emily & Jacqueline Kopelan (Brett), and daughter of Leona Poss. Services Sunday, April 16, 12 noon, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Ave. and 91st St., NYC, family will be sitting following burial and on
 Muriel Spark, known for her finely polished, darkly comic prose and for the unforgettable Miss Jean Brodie, one of the funniest and most sinister characters in modern fiction, died Friday at a hospital in Florence, Italy. She was 88. Ms. Spark's death was announced yesterday, The As
 ABRAMS--Roslyn. It is with deep sadness that the entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges the passing of our beloved friend and former colleague, Roslyn Abrams. Roz worked for many years at Beth Israel including serving in the Office of the President until her retirement. She w
 ABRAMSON--Ruth. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the passing of Ruth Abramson. A Museum Founder, she and her husband Albert were among its most pivotal leaders. Their vision that the lessons of the Holocaust are vital to the nation and their extraordinary generosity helped
 BEINECKE--Helen B. Died at her home on Monday, April 10. Her funeral service will be held at Saint Marks Episcopal Church in West Hampton Beach on Monday, April 17 at 10 AM. Interment will be immediately following. She was preceded by husband Edwin J. Beinecke Jr. She is survived by a daugh
 BERNEY--Bess, 102. Died April 6 in Brewster, MA. She was the wife of the late Charles Berney. Mrs. Berney was born in Philadelphia. At age 18 she sang in the Metropolitan Opera Chorus in NY. She then attended the University of Southern California and worked with archeologist Charles Lummis 
 BRODSKY -- Naomi (Rich man). Died peacefully on April 12, 2006, at home, in Mt. Vernon, NY. Loving wife of the late Irving Brodsky, devoted mother of two sons, David (Stacey), of Scarsdale, NY, and Richard (Peggy) of Miami, FL, adoring grandmother of the late Kate, and of Peter (Lael), Jane
 BURR--Kelsey. April 12, 2006. Wife of Douglas Roberts. Daughter of Brigita Burr and Donald Burr. Sister of Cameron, Whitney, and Andrew Burr. Aunt of Maggie, Nicholas, Lucy, Kathryn, and Tucker Burr. For information about the memorial service and donations in her memory, please email: frien
 CHOY--Muriel. Passed away peacefully on April 9. Loved wife of James, mother of Debby and Pam. Inspiration to us with her strength and integrity. Family welcomes friends, April 17, 2-7 at NG Fook FH, 36 Mulberry Street.       
 FRIEDMAN - Laurette. On April 14, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Leonard. Dear mother of Susan and Jules Kaufman, Judith and Leon Brenner and Janet and Howard Rose. Adored grandmother of Daniel, Julie, Robert, David, Beth, Jaime, Jonathan and Adam. Very special GG to Michael, Jason, Ava, Lo
 FUCHS--Jessie Ferder of Carle Place NY, died March 27, 2006 at age 92. Beloved wife of deceased Theodore Fuchs; survived by her daughter Yolanda Hill andseveral nieces and nephews. Memorial service on April 30, 2006 at 12 noon at Congregation Shaarei Ha Shamayim, 2742 Grand Avenue, Bellmore
 GASSEL--Virginia S. Age 70, of Chicago, IL, beloved wife of the late Stuart P. Gassel, loving mother of Virginia S. Gassel, Jr. and James A. Gassel, and grandmother of Grace M. Gassel, passed away on April 2. Virginia was a philanthropist and humanitarian. She was passionate about her famil
 GOLDING -- Gertrude (nee Rosenblatt). Of Hewlett, NY, on April 13. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Golding. Devoted mother of Marjorie Kassner Vogel. Loving grandmother and best friend of Robin & Jeffrey Kassner. May her memory be eternal. For service information call Boulevard-Riverside 
 KANE--Blanche (nee Feinberg). Died on Thursday, April 13, at home in Lake Worth, FL. Beloved by her late husband Jack and adored mother of Helen and David Samuels, Isobel and Gordon Kane. Cherished grandmother of Pamela, Jill, Leigh (Ric), Joanne, Jonathan (Arlene), Felice (Doug) and great-
 MANASSE - Gertrude. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the faculty, staff and alumni of the Phillips Beth Israel School of Nursing in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and benefactress, Gertrude Manasse. Trudy, as she was affectionately known, wa
 MOHACSY--Ildiko. The William Alanson White community mourns the loss of Dr. Ildiko Mohacsy, a revered and beloved colleague who distinguished herself through numerous writing and lectures concerning her work with children and her deep understanding and passion for the arts. She combined a g
 NORTH--Gail. Passed away peacefully from cancer on April 14, at the home of a friend on Shelter Island, surrounded by friends and family. She is survived by her nephews, Mike and Joey Zara, the sons of her late sister, Barbara, and by her brotherin-law, Danny Zara. She was devoted to her do
 NOVOD--Edith Friedman. Died April 14, 2006, at 88. Beloved wife of the late New York State Senator Gordon I. Novod; loving mother of Joanne Schechter, Lewis Novod and the late Helen Novod Upton, sons-in-law Loren Schechter and Elliott Upton, grandson - in - law Michael Manley, and daughters
 PERALTA-RAMOS--Inga Lucia. Passed away April 2, 2006. Married to Standard Oil heir Paul Peralta-Ramos in 1959. She was active as a Board member of the Children's East Harlem Tutorial Program, and the Millicent Rogers Museum in Taos, New Mexico. She also volunteered her time to the children'
 PLAYER--Doris. Died April 10 in Rhinebeck, NY. She was the widow of Willis R. Player, former Sr. Vice-President of Pan American Airways. Born in Norristown, PA., she graduated from the University of Michigan and married her grade-school classmate, Mr. Player. She is survived by their daught
 REISS--Jeanne. On April 13, 2006. Beloved wife of Jerry, dearest mother of Joanne and Tzemach, Alan & Lonnie. Loving sister of Herbert, Carol and Al. Darling grandmother of Eric, Adam and Faith. Services Sunday, 1 pm, at Gutterman's, 175 North Long Beach Road, Rockville Centre. $(6$
 ROFFMAN--Helen, 91. Passed away April 14, 2006. Beloved wife of Bernie, wonderful mother of Bonnie Marcus (Norman), Linda Simpson (Daniel) & Herbert (Emma); the best Grandma to Jason, Joshua, Matthew, Annie, Adam, Scott and Ali; Great-Grandma to Maddie and Brigi. A warm, generous and gutsy 
 ROSEN--Rosalind. The Board of Directors of the Canavan Foundation mourns the untimely loss of Roz Rosen, a Founding Board member and past President. Her 14 year commitment to the Canavan Foundation will be long remembered. Roz was instrumental in organizing the Scientific/Medical Advisory C
 SCHUBACK--Diana. Age 85, on April 13, 2006. Beloved aunt, cousin and friend. She was a Chelsea artist known for her love of people and NYC. Services today, at 11 AM, at Mt. Moriah Cemetery, Fairview, NJ.       
 SIENKIEWICZ--Anna. Born July 14, 1921 died on January 4, 2005 at the age of 85. Ms. Sienkiewicz was a graduate of the Bellevue School of Nursing, class of 1943. A Certificate of Merit signed by Mayor LaGuardia was awarded to her in 1944 for outstanding service in the municipal hospitals dur
 SMITH--Anne Marie of New York City, Oak Bluffs, MA and recently Oakland, CA., died in Oakland on March 17, 2006. She leaves her two children Dr. Mark Smith and Marcia Smith, four grandchildren, and scores of family and friends. Contributions in memory of Anne and Rufus Smith may be made to 
 BRODSKY -- Naomi (Rich man). Died peacefully on April 12, 2006, at home, in Mt. Vernon, NY. Loving wife of the late Irving Brodsky, devoted mother of two sons, David (Stacey), of Scarsdale, NY, and Richard (Peggy) of Miami, FL, adoring grandmother of the late Kate, and of Peter (Lael), Jane
 GUNTHER--Geraldyne B. Of Duncaster, Bloomfield, CT, on April 11. Wife of the late Jack D. Gunther. Mother of Nancy G. Steger of Scarsdale, and Jack D. Gunther Jr. of NYC. Mother-in-law of John Steger, grandmother of Dr. Katherine Steger, of Montreal, and the late Dr. Thomas Steger, and sist
 RUSSO--Marguerite Agnes, 95, of Flushing, NY. For 58 years the beloved wife of the late Anthony C. Russo. Marguerite was born on Clinton Avenue in the Bronx, in the Parish of St. Augustine. She was baptized and married in St. Augustine's Church. Marguerite attended Cathedral High. She gradu
 SAMUELS--Diane J. Of Paramus, NJ. Loved by her late husband Reuben, her children Julie, Adam and (Barry), and her granddaughters Alyssa and Monica. Services 12 noon, today, at Temple Sholom, River Edge, NJ.       
 ZIRINSKY--Helen Gelsey. 83, after a long period of illness. She was a Brooklyn girl with great charm and enthusiasm for life. She was a beautiful, outspoken woman with a big heart who always lived her life to the fullest. Helen was a devoted daughter and a great friend to many. She gave her
 DAWES--Margaret ''Poogie.'' Unexpectedly at her home on April 14, in Steamboat Springs, CO. Poogie grew up in Rumson, NJ and graduated from Arizona State Univ. and moved to Steamboat in 1974. She met her husband Steve Dawes in Steamboat. Services and a ceremony celebrating her life will be 
 DUBOYS--Frieda. New York Metropolitan Region, the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism, extends its deepest sympathies to our vice president, Ronni Birnbaum Kopelowitz on the untimely passing of her beloved mother. May her memory be for a blessing. Jerry I. Klibanoff, President Bruce F.
 GUNTHER--Geraldyne B. Of Duncaster, Bloomfield, CT, on April 11. Wife of the late Jack D. Gunther. Mother of Nancy G. Steger of Scarsdale, and Jack D. Gunther Jr. of NYC. Mother-in-law of John Steger, grandmother of Dr. Katherine Steger, of Montreal, and the late Dr. Thomas Steger, and sist
 SCHOEN--Flora. On April 17, 2006 at age 102. Wife of the late Arthur. Mother of the late Lawrence. Survived by her daughter Dr. Jocelyn Malkin, and daughter-in-law Marlene; grandchildren Martha Zornow, Matthew, Amy Rotnemer and Peter Malkin; great-grandchildren Sam, Kasey, Hannah, Sarah, Et
 SHERMAN--Diane F. (nee Miller). 89, of Fort Lee, NJ. Formerly of Manhasset, NY. and Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of Harold. Devoted mother of Lee Langbaum; dear sister of Leon Miller. Loving grandmother of Samantha and Avi Beinhacker, Teddi and Ted Hunter; adored great-grandmother of Max, E
 BRESCIA--Kathleen Lorraine, ''Kathi''. With her husband, Richard Brescia, built a close-knit, loving family surrounded by wonderful friends. Survived by husband Richard; children Elizabeth & Andrew Davis, Richard Ryan & Lowry Brescia, Katherine Genevieve Brescia & Patrick Joseph Brescia; si
 DAWES--Margaret ''Poogie.'' Unexpectedly at her home on April 14, in Steamboat Springs, CO. Poogie grew up in Rumson, NJ and graduated from Arizona State Univ. and moved to Steamboat in 1974. She met her husband Steve Dawes in Steamboat. Services and a ceremony celebrating her life will be 
 FISKE--Alice H. Of Sylvester Manor, Shelter Island, NY, on April 17, at age 88. The beloved wife of the late Andrew Fiske, the 13th-generation descendant of Nathaniel Sylvester, who settled Shelter Island in 1652. She helped restore Sylvester Manor and its gardens to their 19th century glor
 KASSAB--Emma Elizabeth (Betty). Age 78, of Wallingford, PA. On April 14, 2006. Wife of the late Joseph Kassab, M.D. Mother of Sara Jane Muqaddam (Saleem), William W. Kassab (Janet), Eleanor Ford (Chet) and Joseph A. Kassab (Susan). Relatives and friends are invited to attend her funeral ser
 KRULWICH--Marilyn ''Mickey'' Lewis. Died peacefully in her Manhattan home April 17. She was 84 years old. Born in Tulsa, Oklahoma, she graduated Goucher College, then joined the Navy during World War II where she attained the rank of Lt. J.G. She married Allen Krulwich, who died in 1980 and
 ROMLEY--Lillian, 93. A resident of Greenwich, CT., and a long time resident of New York City, died April 16, 2006. Born in the Ukraine, she was orphaned by six, walked across Europe with a brother and sister, and emigrated to the U.S. in 1922. She is survived by two sons, Victor and Richard
 SHERMAN--Diane F. The Jewish Board of Family & Children Services and its Pride of Judea Community Services Division mark with grief and sadness the passing of Diane Sherman, (Mrs. Harold), one of the Pride's earliest founders and benefactors, from our earliest history to the present time. M
 COHEN--Dr. Carol Ann. The family and friends of Dr. Carol Ann Cohen, originally of Newton, MA mourn her passing as no other. Carol lived with a clarity and honesty that moved us all. Her true homes, Manhattan and Cape Cod Beach, were always open. Her work as a child psychologist was unsurpa
 GRAEBER--Ruth R. Died March 15, 2006. As Ruth Rubinstein she was a leading player in the unique musical ''Pins and Needles'' and it is her singing of ''I'm Just a Chain Store Daisy'' that the Smithsonian chose to represent the show in its record of the music of the era. She was greatly valu
 KRULWICH--Marilyn ''Mickey'' Lewis. Died peacefully in her Manhattan home April 17. She was 84 years old. Born in Tulsa, Oklahoma, she graduated Goucher College, then joined the Navy during World War II where she attained the rank of Lt. J.G. She married Allen Krulwich, who died in 1980 and
 McGOWAN--May H. Of Mt. Vernon, NY, on April 19, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Gerard J. McGowan, Sr. Loving mother of Gerard J. McGowan, Jr., Barbara McGowan Lee and Susan McGowan Holleran. Devoted grandmother of Michelle and Thomas G. Holleran and of Tiffany and Christopher Lee. Loving mo
 EDELMAN--Beatrice, age 84, of Great Neck and Schroon Lake, NY and Pompano Beach, Fl. Beloved wife and best friend of George for more than 62 years. Devoted mother of Richard and Sara Edelman of Taos, NM; Laurie Edelman of NYC; and Jamie and Mark Pollack of River Vale, NJ; cherished sister o
 ETKIN--Bianca. Of Flushing, NY, died in San Francisco on March 28. Wife of the late Arthur Etkin; mother of Coral, Don and Jim; grandmother of Derek, Tommy and Abe; sister of Nella; friend to many. Loved, admired and now woefully missed by all. Bianca was a teacher, painter, potter, travele
 GOODSIDE--Sima (Sylvia). The Officers, Directors, Teachers and the entire Administration of Shulamith School for Girls extends its sincerest condolences to their devoted and outstanding high school principal Dr. Susan R. Katz who is loved and revered by her students worldwide, beloved daugh
 HUGEL--Patricia. 78. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Isadore Hugel died Monday, April 10, 2006 after a brief illness. A lifelong resident of NYC, Patricia recently moved to Milford, CT. She was predeceased by her brother and sister-in-law, Rodney and Thelma Munroe. Pat is survived by three nie
 KRASNER--Anne. On April 18, 2006, at age 95. Devoted mother of David and Lynda Krasner. Loving aunt to Rhoda Brief, Michael Leonard, Stanley Comet and Howard Comet. Cherished great-aunt to Matthew Brief and Marjorie Toback. She will be greatly missed.       
 SPIRA--Toni dies at 101. Loving wife of the late Lazar Spira, devoted mother of Dr. Sidney Spira, dearest motherin-law to Annelene Spira, she died on April 17 peacefully at home in the arms of her caregiver for the last 10 years, Tessie Garcia. Toni was born 1904 in Berlin, Germany, where s
 CHRISTOS--Marianna. New York City Opera deeply mourns the untimely passing of American soprano, Marianna Christos. From her 1975 debut as Liu in Turandot through 1988, she was a company mainstay in Italian and French romantic repertory, turning in vivid performances of signature roles inclu
 GOLDSTEIN - Gertrude of NYC. Died peacefully at 89, April 18, in California after a full life first with her parents, Morris and Fannie Gold, and her brothers, the late Abraham, and surviving Irv and Hy Gold, and with her beloved late husband, Jack Goldstein. She had a warm family with daug
 HOLZHEIMER--Frances M. George. 90, died April 2, 2006. Survived by her loving sons, Philip and Timothy, both of Greenwich and their wives, Gayle and Cosby. She is also survived by her brothers, Jack, Jim and Bud, her sisters, Mildred and June, her grandchildren Timothy Jr., Christopher, Jam
 LEVIN -- Marcia Lauter Obrasky. Died peacefully on April 18, 2006, in Sarasota Memorial Hospital after a long illness. A popular children's book author, using the pen name of Marcia Martin, creator of the Donna Parker series, as well as 22 books for beginning readers, and some of the first 
 ROSENFELD--Naomi E. Of New York City and Quiogue, LI, died on April 19, 2006, after a valiant fight against leukemia. Following a distinguished career in investment banking and investor relations, she immersed herself in the world of music and opera, becoming a member of the Board of the Me
 Ellen Kuzwayo, the lone woman and the least flashy of the founders of the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa and a quiet moral force throughout the rise of the African National Congress from outlaw movement to governing party, died Wednesday in Johannesburg. She was 91. The cau
 EISENBERG--Joan (Werbel). Dear Mom, we thank you for you. There has never been, or never will be, a better wife, a better Mother, a better Grandmother or a better friend than you. You are an inspiration to all of us. You spread joy and warmth to everyone you touch. You will live in our hear
 GLASSER - Anne. Died peacefully at home, two months short of her 92nd birthday, with those she loved at her bedside. Survived by children Ira and Cora, and spouses Trude and Al; grandchildren David, Andy, Peter, Mark, Sally, Jud, and the memory of a 7th, Bonnie; 12 great-grandchildren and o
 LONDON--Shirley, 87. Of Kirkland Village, Bethlehem, PA, formerly of Malverne, NY, died April 20, 2006 at Kirkland Village. She was the wife of Harold for 64 years who predeceased her on December 14, 2004. Born in Bronx, NY, she was the daughter of the late Hyman & Ida Kriegel. She graduate
 VUILLET--Sarah, 71. A mainstay of Locust Valley Friends Academy for more than 30 years as a Spanish teacher, Upper School Principal, Director of College Guidance and Associate Head and even golf coach, died April 20 of cancer at a hospital near her home in Pine Plains, NY. She was a member 
 ROSENFELD--Naomi E. Of New York City and Quiogue, LI, died on April 19, 2006, after a valiant fight against leukemia. Following a distinguished career in investment banking and investor relations, she immersed herself in the world of music and opera, becoming a member of the Board of the Me
 Denise C. Morgan, a legal scholar who was a key litigator in an important school financing case in New York State, died on April 7 in Chicago. She was 41 and lived in New York City. The cause was complications of bacterial pneumonia, said her husband, Dr. Eric R. Wold. Ms. M
 COHEN -- Rose Yorkofsky. Aged 92 passed away on Tuesday, April 18, 2006 at the Chelsea Jewish Nursing Home, Chelsea, MA. She leaves behind two sons, Louis and Arthur, her grandchildren Daniel, Monica, Jonathan and Oliver, and great granddaughter Ellie. Rose was a great lady with a zest for 
 EDELMAN--Beatrice, age 84, of Great Neck and Schroon Lake, NY and Pompano Beach, Fl. Beloved wife and best friend of George for more than 62 years. Devoted mother of Richard and Sara Edelman of Taos, NM; Laurie Edelman of NYC; and Jamie and Mark Pollack of River Vale, NJ; cherished sister o
 EISENBERG--Joan (Werbel). Dear Mom, we thank you for you. There has never been, or never will be, a better wife, a better Mother, a better Grandmother or a better friend than you. You are an inspiration to all of us. You spread joy and warmth to everyone you touch. You will live in our hear
 FISKE--Alice H. Of Sylvester Manor, Shelter Island, NY, on April 17, at age 88. The beloved wife of the late Andrew Fiske, the 13th-generation descendant of Nathaniel Sylvester, who settled Shelter Island in 1652. She helped restore Sylvester Manor and its gardens to their 19th century glor
 KORMOS--Danielle Tabone, of Berkeley, CA, on April 10th, 2006. She is survived by her husband, Dr. Harry R. Kormos, her sons, Remy and Cyril Kormos, four granddaughters, and her mother, brothers, sisters in France. As a mother, a friend, and a professor at the University of California at Be
 LEOPOLD--Margaret. Beloved wife of the late Edward Philip Leopold, passed away peacefully on Wednesday, April 19, 2006. Loving sister of Julius and Milton Klein and the late Dr. Morris Klein. Survived by her children Jackie (Norman), Leslie (Arthur) and Paul (Karen) and her adored grandchil
 MARCUS--Ellen T. On April 5, 2006. Beloved wife of David. Devoted mother of Michael, Jeffrey and Kenneth. Also survived by mother Ida Turoff; sister Nancy Roth; three daughters-in-law; six grandchildren. 30-yr resident of Manhasset where she served 9 years as dedicated member and president 
 MELTZER--Helen. Died at 93 on April 16, 2006 in Beverly Hills, California after a long life lived to the fullest. Raised in Worcester, MA, she moved to New York in 1935 and lived there joyously until 1972 when she and her late husband, Allan Meltzer, moved to Key Biscayne, FL. She designed 
 PASTORIZA--Nancy King. A 31-year resident of Bronxville, NY, died on Thursday, April 6, in Bellevue, WA at the age of 80. Born in Bakersfield, CA, Nancy graduated from University of Califorinia at Berkeley, Class of 1947. She was a reporter at Life Magazine in New York City, retiring to mar
 ROSENFELD--Naomi E. The Board of Directors, members and staff of the Metropolitan Opera Club mourn the loss of our dear friend and fellow member, Naomi Rosenfeld. A member of the Opera Club since 1987, Naomi served as a Director of the Club and Chairman of the Program Committee with boundle
 ROSSITER--Lesley. After a courageous two year battle with cancer, Lesley passed peacefully at home with her family on April 21, 2006. Born Lesley Marlene Holtan, September 17, 1957, Lesley was a free, creative spirit who lived life uncompromisingly on her own terms. She is survived by her h
 STAFFORD--Margaret Frances. Born November 17, 1912 to William and Margaret Hayes. Was welcomed to Heaven on Easter Sunday by her beloved husband John, her Mama & Papa, and brothers Howard and Georgie (Father William Hayes, O.F.M.). Beloved aunt of Mary Gloria Gillen and Eileen O'Brien, twel
 SUSSMAN--Evelyn D., 89. Of East Meadow, on April 17, 2006. Beloved wife of William Sussman. Devoted mother of Linda Sussman and Alice (Bruce) Geismar. Loving grandmother of Keith (Ruth) and Jennifer Geismar. Great grandmother of Jack Ryan and David Geismar. Dear sister of the late Florence 
 LEVIN -- Marcia Lauter Obrasky. Died peacefully on April 18, 2006, in Sarasota Memorial Hospital after a long illness. A popular children's book author, using the pen name of Marcia Martin, creator of the Donna Parker series, as well as 22 books for beginning readers, and some of the first 
 GEBROE--Laurel May, who appeared in Sunday's edition, was also survived by her dear brother, Ronald Lightstone.       
 HOYNE--Marjorie. April 21, 2006, passed away peacefully at home. She is survived by her beloved sister Carol Nammack and her beloved brother-in-law William Nammack. Her loving sister Nancy Montgomery also survives her. Marjorie was so fortunate to have so many caring nieces, nephews and gra
 REGENSBURG--Alice (Ashley). Passed away peacefully on April 22, 2006. Wife of the late Charles, mother of Jill, grandmother of Jennifer and Michael, great-grandmother of Annabelle, and loving sister of Pat Jacobs. Ashley was a figure in the public relations field for many years and was Pres
 REZAK--Anne, 93, concluded her exemplary life peacefully on April 22 and was buried on April 23. Widow of Nathan W. Rezak, beloved mother and family matriarch, her unconditional love and unfailing optimism will be missed by her children Ira Rezak, Joan Sadinoff-Katz, and Lawrence Rezak, the
 Alida Valli, an Italian movie star who was described by both David O. Selznick and Benito Mussolini as the most beautiful woman in the world after Greta Garbo and who appeared in more than 100 films, died on Saturday at her home in Rome. She was 84. The office of the mayor of Rome, 
 ALEXANDER--Deanie. It is with deep sadness that we mourn the passing of our beloved friend and relative. Deanie's life was a testament to her abiding interest in friends, civic life, music and New York City's children. Her distinguished career in the New York City Health Department ensured 
 CORREA--Vanessa. The trustees and staff of the 1199SEIU Benefit and Pension Funds mourn the sudden loss of our dear friend and colleague Vanessa Correa. Vanessa was the Assistant to the Executive Director. Vanessa worked at the Funds for over nine years and was deeply committed to helping a
 HOYNE--Marjorie. April 21, 2006, passed away peacefully at home. She is survived by her beloved sister Carol Nammack and her beloved brother-in-law William Nammack. Her loving sister Nancy Montgomery also survives her. Marjorie was so fortunate to have so many caring nieces, nephews and gra
 JOHNSON--Jean Taylor. Of Essex, CT, died April 22 after a long illness. She was married to the late Ward L. Johnson and lived in Cold Spring Harbor, NY, Pottersville, NJ, and Essex. Loved by family, friends and community. She will be missed by all of us. Memorial May 19, 11 AM, St. John's C
 LOOMIS--Patricia Anne (Scanlan). Of Naperville, IL, formerly of Forest Hills NY, died April 16. Previously employed by Manufacturers Hanover Trust & Avaya, Inc. Survived by children, Steven, Shannon and Colleen; mother, Anne Scanlan; brother, Daniel Scanlan. Predeceased by her father, Eugen
 MADOFF--Roger. On your birthday I thank you for your gift. You graced us with your presence on this earth for only a short time, but that time was filled with love, laughter, sincerity, integrity and honor. My beloved brother, you always understood me and cared for me like no one could. You
 MALAMUD--Hannah. The Actors' Temple Board and membership mourn the passing of Hannah Malamud, 94, the widow of our greatly beloved cantor of 37 years, Louis Malamud. We extend our sympathies to her daughter, Paula Malamud, her son, Sherwood Malamud, her daughter and lifelong Temple member, 
 MILLS -- Hannah R. (nee Pisetsky). Age 85, of Coconut Creek, FL, since 1991, formerly of Roslyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Mills. Devoted mother of Ileene Yashpeh (Joseph), Susan Richmond (Elliot), and Nancy Mills Fishman, MD (Charles Fishman, MD). Cherished grandmother of Alexa,
 NADLER--Geraldine Shirley. Age 98, passed away on Friday 7AM, April 21, 2006, at University Hospital at Tamarac, FL. Beloved wife for 53 years to Samuel C. Nadler, D.D.S., devoted mother to son Robert and daughter Wendy, cherished grandmother of Elizabeth Weinstein & Aaron Jettleson and bel
 ROSENFELD--Naomi. The Birch Wathen Lenox School mourns the passing of Naomi Rosenfeld. During her years as a parent and trustee of BWL she contributed her skilled leadership to the school while her daughter, Elizabeth, was enrolled. We will remember Mrs. Rosenfeld and her family in our pray
 NIEDERHOFFER -- Elaine Eisenberg died at age 81 on April 23, 2006. Adored wife of the late Arthur, beloved mother of Victor Niederhoffer, Diane Niederhoffer Klein, and Roy Niederhoffer. Cherished grandmother of Galt, Katie, Lauren, Rand, Amy, Victoria, Artemis, Kira, Ian, and Gabrielle. Tre
 Jane Jacobs, the writer and thinker who brought penetrating eyes and ingenious insight to the sidewalk ballet of her own Greenwich Village street and came up with a book that challenged and changed the way people view cities, died yesterday in Toronto, where she moved in 1968. She was 89.  
 FASS--Alice. On April 24 at the age of 65. Survived by her sons Brian and Lyle. Services Wednesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 NORTHROP--Barbara S. Beloved wife of Edward Power, mother of Michael and India and grandmother of Christopher, Alyssa, Katsina, Ethan, Michael and Joshua. Passed away peacefully Sunday morning April 23 at the age of 76. A gifted writer and kind soul, she will be deeply missed. Family will r
 POLLEN--Ida. Died Sunday April 23, 2006 in Port St. Lucie, Florida. Beloved sister, aunt, and great-aunt, generously gave her love and heart to everyone who knew her. Daughter of Nathan Diamond and Sarah Polikoff, was born October 31, 1908 in Malden, MA. Ida married the late Al Pollen and l
 REZAK--Anne. We offer our Kos Tanchumim to the entire Rezak family. Beloved mother of Joan (and Henry) Katz, Silver Founders at Shaare Zedek and Lawrence (and Linda) Rezak. Mrs. Anne Rezak laid the foundation for Jewish tradition and community in which her children today excel. May the fami
 ROSSOFF--Annie Rosenblum. Died April 25, 2006, age 89 in Southbury, CT. She is survived by a devoted family including children Margaret and Simon; grandsons Nick Rossoff and Max Nichols; great grandson Ty, sister Sarah Lang, brother Arthur Rosenblum and many nieces and nephews. Born in Oran
 ZWERLING--Evelyn R. Of Hewlett Bay Park, NY on April 24, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Seymour J. Adored mother of Jeffrey and Michele, Gary and Marie, Alden and Isabel, Harris and Linda and Eric and Naomi. Cherished grandmother of Brian and Jessica, Jonathan and Amy, Corey, Cara, Craig, T
 NIEDERHOFFER--Elaine. The musicians of the Park Avenue Chamber Symphony extend condolences to our colleague, violinist Roy Niederhoffer, whose mother Elaine was a woman of extraordinary intelligence, grace and love for her family.       
 ARDELL--Mary, 89, April 26 in Boynton Beach, Florida. Beloved mother of Alan & Mery, Madeline & Marvin Bloom and Philip & Cynthia; grandmother of Deirdre, Michael, Rebecca, Glenn, Keith & David; great grandmother of nine. Lifelong member of B'nai B'rith and Hadassah. In lieu of flowers cont
 FARBER - Georgia. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband Barton and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft
 FULLER - Sue. April 17, Southampton, NY peacefully at home, age 91. Famous artist and printmaker, she was a member of William Stanley Hayter's of Atelier 17.       
 JACOBS--Jane. The Board of Directors of the Center for the Living City at Purchase College mourns the loss of a dear friend, mentor and inspiration for the formation of the Center. With humility and common sense, she taught the world how to understand and value cities and their economies th
 MONTY--Gloria. The Officers, Trustees and members of Ocean Beach Club mourn the passing of their friend and member and send heartfelt condolences to her family. Nancy Lobell, President Nancy Bach, Secretary       
 NORTHROP--Barbara S. Beloved wife of Edward Power, mother of Michael and India and grandmother of Christopher, Alyssa, Katsina, Ethan, Michael and Joshua. Passed away peacefully Sunday morning April 23 at the age of 76. A gifted writer and kind soul, she will be deeply missed. Family will r
 ZUCKERMAN--Muriel. Died on April 26, 2006 at the age of 83. She worked many years for the Youth Consultation Service. Muriel is survived by her husband Sam, daughter Judith (Joseph) McGreal, sons David (Ferne) and Michael, grandchildren Mark, Lynn and Daniel, sister Doris Dreyer and four ni
 McCAFFERTY--Kathleen M. Age 90 of NYC. Beloved aunt of Paul, Donald and John Meehan, Cecelia Easton and Barbara Burkas. Earned her Masters Degree in Education at NYU in 1935 and taught at several Manhattan private schools. Visitation at the Keri Memorial Home, 125 Main St. Lincoln Pk, NJ to
 NIEDERHOFFER - Elaine. We mourn the passing of an extraordinary woman who transmitted her love of the arts to her wonderful children and grandchildren. Phyllis Feder, Chair Lydia Kontos, Exec Director Kaufman Center Lucy Moses School       
 HAZAN--Leslie Beth. To my daughter on her 43rd birthday. You share my heart today and always.       
 Alice H. Fiske, who contributed to the understanding of slave life in colonial New York by opening her 350-year-old estate on Shelter Island to archaeological study, died at home on April 17. She was 88. Her death was announced by Mac Griswold, director of archival research at the e
 Helen Hobbs Jordan, an exacting and tart-tongued music teacher who instructed generations of performers in ear training and theory, including Melissa Manchester, Bette Midler and Tony Bennett, died on Wednesday at her suite in the Salisbury Hotel, near Carnegie Hall. She was 99. Mrs
 GATES--Beatrice G. On April 25 at 94 full years. Devoted wife to the late Nathan H. Gates and loving mother of Alice, Martha, Caroline; grandmother of David, Nathaniel, West, Nicole; great grandmother of Oliver and Henry. Having lived life to its fullest, she was an inspiration to all of us
 KOHN--Roberta (Bobbie) nee Kotcher of Miami Beach, FL died Thursday April 26, 2006. She died as she had lived, surrounded by family and friends until the end. She was a woman for all seasons. The beloved wife of Gene (deceased); loving mother of Nancy and Alan Brooks, Richard and Marlene Ko
 DEERING -- Etheldreda A. (nee Sullivan) On April 27, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Capt Raymond M. (ret FDNY). Loving mother of Raymond M. Jr (Carole), Laura Mayclin (Patrick), Sr Joan, CSJ, David (Lorraine), Mary Alice and the late Michael. Dear sister of the late Marion, Alice and Margar
 RIBADENEYRA -- Virginia Gable, 78, formerly of New York City and Jacksonville, Florida, died Friday, April 21, 2006, in Shelby, North Carolina. She was preceded in death by her husband John Anthony Ribadeneyra. Born October 30, 1927 in Altoona, Pennsylvania, Ginny graduated from Vassar Coll
 Florence Latimer Mars, who defied the society into which she was born to write a searing book about the effects of the 1964 killings of the civil rights workers Andrew Goodman, Michael Schwerner and James Earl Chaney on her hometown, Philadelphia, Miss., died on Sunday at her home there. Sh
 Nadia Chilkovsky Nahumck, a performer and transcriber of dances by Isadora Duncan and an influential teacher, died on Sunday in Blue Bell, Pa. She was 98. Her death was announced by Judith Finkelstein, a former student. Born in Kiev, Ukraine, Ms. Nahumck came to the United S
 HARRISON--Joan. Temple Israel Lawrence mourns her loss and extends deepest sympathy to the family. Jay H. Rosenbaum, Rabbi Garrett L. Gray, President       
 HYMAN--Ruth. Of Manhattan and Ocean Beach, NY on April 27, 2006. Beloved wife of Charles. Devoted mother of Laurence and the late Dr. Roger and mother-in-law of Ann & Susan. Dear sister of Janet Bank & the late Shirlee Seglin. Adored grandmother of Kevin and Sharon, Douglas and Sheila, Dani
 LEVIN--Florence of New York City and Ocean Beach, NY. The widow of the late Bernard Levin; loving wife, mother and grandmother. Beloved by her family and friends. Survived by daughter Jane, son Richard, daughterin-law Margaret and granddaughters Lizzy and Ann. Funeral services on Sunday Apr
 ARDELL--Mary, 89, April 26 in Boynton Beach, Florida. Beloved mother of Alan & Mery, Madeline & Marvin Bloom and Philip & Cynthia; grandmother of Deirdre, Michael, Rebecca, Glenn, Keith & David; great grandmother of nine. Lifelong member of B'nai B'rith and Hadassah. In lieu of flowers cont
 AVRAM--Henriette. On Saturday, April 22, 2006. She is survived by her three children, Lloyd, Marcie and Jay Avram. Formal Funeral Services will be held together for both Herbert M. Avram, who passed away January 15, and Henriette Davidson Avram at Fort Myer Chapel, Arlington, VA on Monday, 
 BASTEDO--Helen Wilmerding (Mrs. Philip) (January 5, 1917-April 27, 2006), youngest daughter of the late Lucius and Helen (Cutting) Wilmerding of New York City, died peacefully. With her late husband Mrs. Bastedo was an important part ot the nonprofit scene in both New York City and New Hamp
 CARTER--Gloria (Golde) Cohen, 83. Formerly of Hewlett, NY and NYC. Died in Florida Saturday, April 15, 2006 after a brave fight with emphysema and cancer. Her adored and adoring family will miss her warmth, wisdom, humor and strength.       
 EHRENFEST -- Susan (nee Wertheimer). Was born in Vienna, Austria, January 6th, 1919, and died on April 22, 2006. Susan received a degree in International Diplomacy from the Diplomatic Academy of Vienna, Austria. She immigrated to St. Louis in 1941, via Russia and Japan. She was married to S
 FRIEDMAN--Diana. On April 26, 2006. Loving wife of the late William, beloved mother of Peter and Beth Friedman; devoted grandmother to Rebecca Sarah and Adam Isaac Friedman. Also survived by her sister Judith Rubin and brother-in-law Harvey. Service Sunday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76 
 HARRISON--Joan (Sabel). Beloved wife of the late Harold Harrison and the late Jordan Stern. Adored mother of John and Carol, Andy and Lisa, and Susan (Sita Gange). Cherished grandmother of Wendi and Sal, Pamela and Sean and Scott. Beloved great-grandmother of Maximillian. Passed peacefully 
 HYMAN--Ruth. Of Manhattan and Ocean Beach, NY on April 27, 2006. Beloved wife of Charles. Devoted mother of Laurence and the late Dr. Roger and mother-in-law of Ann & Susan. Dear sister of Janet Bank & the late Shirlee Seglin. Adored grandmother of Kevin and Sharon, Douglas and Sheila, Dani
 KABRAM--Lisa.Cherished daughter of Patti and the late Leonard Kabram, loving sis ter of Karen Margol and sis ter-in-law of Steven, adoring aunt of Ian, Matthew and Al lie. Her charm, perseverance and indomitable spirit are an inspiration to all who had the privilege of knowing this remarkab
 KAMEN--Anne P. 89. Beloved widow of Paul Kamen (WWII casualty) and controller at Proskauer Rose Goetz and Mendelsohn, until 1981, died on Wednesday, April 26, 2006. Mrs. Kamen spent much of her life doing things she enjoyed, including her career and traveling around the world. Anne was a ro
 KOHN--Roberta (Bobbie) nee Kotcher of Miami Beach, FL died Thursday April 26, 2006. She died as she had lived, surrounded by family and friends until the end. She was a woman for all seasons. The beloved wife of Gene (deceased); loving mother of Nancy and Alan Brooks, Richard and Marlene Ko
 LEVIN--Florence of New York City and Ocean Beach, NY. The widow of the late Bernard Levin; loving wife, mother and grandmother. Beloved by her family and friends. Survived by daughter Jane, son Richard, daughterin-law Margaret and granddaughters Lizzy and Ann. Funeral services on Sunday Apr
 LUBART--Henriette d'Arlin, Dr., youngest of eleven children, was born in Beirut. She was educated in Egypt and France. In 1939 she visited the United States to see the World's Fair and remained after World War II broke out. Her first years in America saw her involved in broadcasting in Fren
 RUDERMAN--Sylvia Dilbert. Died peacefully at home on April 25, 2006, after a long and blessed life. She will be missed by her loving family.       
 SAAD--Barbara. 78, departed this world peacefully on April 15, 2006. Survived by her husband of 57 years Ibrahim (Bram) Saad of Wilmington, DE; son and daughter-in-law Ali and Anu Saad of Los Angeles; daughter Aleya Lehmann of New York City; daughter and son-in-law, Amal and Rex Williams of
 WINICK--Mariann Pezzella. On Good Friday, April 14, 2006, after a long illness. Loving wife of Charles. Beloved mother of Laura and Raphael. Devoted sister of Regina Becker and Anthony Pezzella. A thoughtful teacher, scholar and writer. Faculty member of Lehman College and Rome's Internatio
 deMURIAS--Ann-Carlin (nee Borden) in her 85th year on April 9th, 2006 at her home in Babylon, NY of pancreatic cancer. Beloved wife of the late Ramon deMurias. Carlin was a graduate of Madeira School class of 1938 and Smith College class of 1942. She is survived by her family, Elena of Manh
 WEINTRAUB--Rose. April 30, 2000. Lovingly remembered by her family. Jerry, Jane, Doug, Linda, grandchildren and great-grandchildren       
