 Jane Nickerson Steinberg, a former food editor of The New York Times, died Sunday at a hospital in White Sulphur Springs, Mont. She was 83. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said a son, John R. Steinberg. As Jane Nickerson, she was food editor of The Times from 1942 to 1957
 Louisa Matthiasdottir, an exemplar of the strain of painterly representation that runs through the history of postwar American art, died Saturday at O'Connor Hospital in Delhi, N.Y. She was 83 and lived in New York from 1942 until late 1999, when she moved to Delhi to live with her daughter
 Nancy Binns Reed, a composer of musicals and operas, died on Saturday at her home in Burke, Va. She was 75. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Mrs. Reed, who wrote some 250 compositions, ranging from songs to marches to operas, achieved her widest success with the 1953 pop 
 Essie Green Edmiston, an art dealer who represented many 20th-century African-American artists through her Harlem gallery, died on Feb. 26. She was 61 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was bladder cancer,  said Sylvia Hueston, a friend. Mrs. Edmiston began showing art in her
 Sandra Schmirler, the star of the first women's curling team to win an Olympic gold medal and one of Canada's most popular athletes, died Thursday in Regina, Saskatchewan. She was 36. She died of cancer, the Canadian Curling Association said. Known as Schmirler the Curler, S
 Janet Reed, whose comic gifts and sparkling technique made her one of American dance's most beloved ballerinas in the early years of American Ballet Theater and New York City Ballet, died in Seattle last Monday. She was 83 and lived in Seattle. She suffered a stroke one week earlier
 Veronica Cooper Converse, the widow of the actor Gary Cooper, died on Feb. 16 at her home in Manhattan. She was 86. Ms. Converse married Mr. Cooper in 1933. After his death in 1961 she married Dr. John Converse, a plastic surgeon, who died in 1981. Known as Rocky, Ms. Cooper
 Beatrice Schenk de Regniers, an author whose ability to recreate the sensibilities of a child informed many well-loved books she wrote for young readers, died on March 1 at her home in Washington. She was 86. Beni Montresor illustrated Mrs. de Regniers's ''May I Bring a Friend?'' (1
 Gertrude Sanford Legendre, an unlikely debutante of the 1920's who forsook society to become a big-game hunter and then to work during World War II for the Office of Strategic Services, predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency, died on Wednesday at Medway, her historic lantation near 
 Ingrid G. Brainard, a dance historian and teacher of historical dance, died on Feb. 18 at her home in West Newton, Mass. She was 74. The cause was a heart attack, said Tristram Perry, a spokesman for the Boston Conservatory, where Dr. Brainard taught. Dr. Brainard received a
 Barbara Cooney, an author and illustrator of children's books whose first work was published in 1940 and whose 110th, ''Basket Moon,'' appeared last fall, died on Friday at a hospital in Portland, Me. She was 83 and lived in Damariscotta, Me. Miss Cooney honored the admonition she a
 Christi Finch, whose catering shop, Word of Mouth, was among the first to produce luxury takeout food on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, died on Tuesday. She was 54. Her death, at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, came after a prolonged gastrointestinal illness, h
 Margaret Rosezarian Harris, a musician and educator who was the first black woman to conduct the  symphony orchestras of Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, St. Louis, Minnesota and 11 other American cities, died on March 7 in New York City. She was 56 and lived in Elmsford, N.Y. The cau
 Jean Howard, who rode the comet of her extraordinary beauty, ethereal glamour and insouciant intelligence to become a Ziegfeld girl, a Hollywood starlet, a legendary hostess and the house photographer of the film colony, died at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif., on Monday. She was 89.     
 Katharine Washburn, an essayist, editor, anthologist and translator whose legacy includes a cornucopia of verse from the dawn of civilization to the present, died Wednesday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 57. The apparent cause was a heart attack, her family said. Ms. Washb
 Vivian Fine, a composer who wrote ballet scores for Martha Graham and Jose Limon, as well as copious amounts of orchestral, chamber and vocal music, died on Monday at the Southern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington after an automobile accident. She was 86 and lived in Hoosick Falls, N.Y. 
 Helen Venturelli, a champion of better benefits for widows of police officers and firefighters killed on the job, died March 15 at Westchester Square Hospital in the Bronx. She was 86 and lived in the Bronx. In 1943, Mrs. Venturelli's husband, Pasquale, a policeman, leapt onto the r
 Polita Grau, a member of a prominent Cuban political family who helped to spirit thousands of children out of Castro's Cuba, which later jailed her for nearly 14 years as a C.I.A. conspirator, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Miami. She was 84. Ms. Grau, politically engaged si
 Vivian Harris, a comedian and chorus girl and the performer with the most recorded appearances -- 10,000 -- at the Apollo Theater in Harlem, died Feb. 18 in Englewood, N.J. She was 97. Ms. Harris, who died at the Nursing and Retirement Home of the Actors Fund of America, was one of 
 Jeremy Ingalls, an acclaimed poet during the 1940's and 50's, died on March 16 in Tucson, where she lived. She was 88. In 1941 Ms. Ingalls won the Yale Series of Younger Poets prize for ''The Metaphysical Sword,'' a collection that used classical, mythological, biblical and Oriental
 Anna Sokolow, a modern-dance choreographer known for her social commitment and searing depictions of urban loneliness, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. As a dancer and choreographer, beginning in the 1930's, Miss Sokolow was concerned with the toll that society e
