 FRANKLIN-Ann Kerr. The Board of Trustees and the Director of the Nassau County Museum of Art mourn the passing of Mrs. Ann Kerr Franklin, dedicated Board Member. Appointed to the Board in 1989 as a founding member, Mrs. Franklin helped establish the museum as a successful entity. Giving sel
 GOZAN-Phoebe. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long-time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 HOMNICK-Marguerite (Rita) (nee Mahon). Of White Plains, New York. Formerly of Bronx (Parkchester), New York. Died April 29, 2001. She was 67. She is the beloved wife of Abe. She is survived by her husband, stepson Steve, a stepgrandson, her sisterin-law, an aunt and many cousins, nieces, ne
 KIMMEL-Sarah Levine. On April 28, 2001 in her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late Samuel J. Devoted sister of the late Benjamin. Cherished mother of Tobi (Gene) Nadel and the late Philip (Maryln). Adored grandmother and great grandmother. She will be remembered lovingly for her spontaneous 
 WARSHAW-Sadie (Morganlander). Died peacefully April 30 in her 97th year. Mourned by loving children Ruth (Ralph) Schlossman, Carol (Marshall) Moss, grandchildren Marcie (Marvin) Tankel, Meryl, David and Lauren Moss, Andrew Schlossman, Wendy (Douglas) Firtel, Jill (Bill) Getz. Greatgrandmoth
 Barbara Krakauer, a violinist who played chamber music and taught in New York and for nearly 25 years in summer programs in Provence, France, died on Monday. She was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was breast cancer, said her husband, Dr. William Krakauer. Mrs. Krakauer
 AKST-Phyllis (nee Rosenholtz). Adoring and adored wife of the late Simon (Shimmie), devoted mother of Susan and Archie Granot, Ellen and Chris Jones, Karen and Jay Schecter, awesome grandma of Jonathan, Andrea, David, Jeremy and Benjamin. Dear sister of Claire Pitassi. A women of wisdom, hu
 BERKMAN-Lillian R. On May 1, 2001. Beloved sister of William Dubois, Harold Winters & Barbara Hagani. Devoted aunt of Maja, Robert, James, Lisa, Laura and Steven. Funeral services on Thursday, 10:30AM from Frank E. Campbell (the funeral chapel), 1076 Madison Avenue, corner of 81 Street. Int
 BROWNE-Hilda L. Age 76. Beloved wife of the late Walter F. Browne. Devoted mother of Walter Shawn, Stephen, Susan and Roger. Proud grandmother of Amber, Dennis and Allison Browne, Walter Promnitz. Dear sister of John, cousin of Bonnie, Neville, Phoebe and Ruth, Australia. Passed away on Feb
 KRAKAUER-Barbara. On April 30, 2001. Violinist and teacher at the Preparatory and Extension Divisions of Mannes College of Music, and also in Provence annually since 1977. Most recently teaching in the Music Studies Abroad Program which she organized with her husband in collaboration with p
 PRAGER-Ruth. A very special person passed away today, May 1. She was a loving and caring wife to her late husband Jack. A unique mother to her son Michael. She had been a devoted dutiful daughter and an extraordinary care giving niece. Her greatest pleasure came from her decades long lastin
 RAKOFF-Maxine. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Thomas K. Weiner Rabbi Shira Milgrom Ken Simon, President       
 SIEGELMAN-Shirley. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck. Mordecai Waxman, Rabbi George N. Abrahams, President       
 Frances Ann Cannon Dougherty, a theatrical producer, died on April 25 at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 82. Ms. Dougherty began her career in the late 1950's with the Phoenix Theater. In 1961 she and another producer, Michael Dewell, founded the National Repertory Theater. T
 BERKMAN-Lillian Rojtman. The Board of Directors, staff, and residents of Phoenix House mourn with great sadness the loss of our Board member, Lillian Rojtman Berkman. An outstanding leader in business and the arts, Lillian was a loyal supporter & thoughtful advisor, whose generosity, vision
 EISENBERG-Lucille Ruth. On May 2, 2000. Beloved wife for 61 years of Harold. Loving mother of Bob and Ardyth Eisenberg and Edward and Barbara Eisenberg. Devoted grandmother of Jennifer, Ben, Emily and Sally Eisenberg and Jill Trowbridge and greatgrandmother of Crystal Moutoussamy and James 
 ELSON-Esther. The Board of Governors of The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Esther Elson, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary       
 HUNTER-Rita. The Metropolitan Opera deeply mourns the death of the distinguished soprano Rita Hunter. She sang 33 performances during her five seasons with the company, appearing most notably as Bruennhilde in ''Die Walkuere'' and ''Goetterdaemmerung,'' ''Norma'', and ''Aida''. We extend ou
 JASEN-Michael. On May 2, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Anna. Loving father of Georgette Jasen and her husband Max Van Gilder. Cherished grandfather of Noah and Alexa. Services Friday, 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 KLAR-Beatrice. Born June 27, 1914. Passed away peacefully on May 2, 2001. Survived by Arnold, her loving husband for over 60 years, and by her loving children Regina, Neil and Eileen, Deborah & Elliott, and loving grandchildren Lisa and Jennifer Klein, Dan and John Klar and Harrison Marks. 
 KRAKAUER-Barbara. On April 30, 2001. Violinist and teacher at the Preparatory and Extension Divisions of Mannes College of Music, and also in Provence annually since 1977. Most recently teaching in the Music Studies Abroad Program which she organized with her husband in collaboration with p
 PINE-Elide A. On May 1st, 2001. Wife of the late Granville Pine. Loving sister of Elisa Muller. Aunt to Gerald, Alexandra & Vanessa. A memorial service will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Friday, May 4th, at 3 PM. Contributions in her memory may be made to
 SELTZ-Doris M., 68. On May 1 in Worcester, MA. Widow of David Seltz. She is survived by her son David of Tyngsboro, MA, two daughters, Ann of Worcester, MA and Laura of Binghamton, NY; also her sister Barbara Silverstone of New York and two granddaughters. Services will be held Friday, 1:30
 TOBIN-Mary on May 2, 2001 after a short illness. Survived by daughter Jamie, sisters Patricia & Alma, brother Richard, nieces & nephews. Visiting May 4, 9-10AM at Church of St. Francis of Assisi, 135 W. 31 St; service immediately following. She will be greatly missed.       
 WEINSTEIN - Eleanor. Beloved wife of the late William Weinstein; mother of Claire and Richard; mother-in-law of Alice; grandmother of Michele and Brian; and greatgrandmother of Jacob and Emily. She will be dearly missed and remembered with love. Services at Gutterman's, Woodbury, NY at 10AM
 YASGUR-Florence Ruth Fishman filled our lives with boundless love, happiness and inspiration. She was caring, respectful, determined and self-sacrificing. Always cognizant of her past, she built for the future. Our wife, mother & grandmother taught us about God, Judaism and ourselves. She w
 ARONSON-Ruth. The Rogosin Institute Board of Directors and Staff mourn our esteemed colleague who devoted all her professional life to The Rogosin Institute. Admired and respected by all who knew and worked with her. We extend deep sympathy to her husband and friends.       
 BERKMAN-Lillian R. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns the death of our good friend and Advisory Director, Lillian R. Berkman. Her commitment to our company and her frequent presence at performances in the Opera House will be greatly missed. We extend our condolences to her family and
 WEINSTEIN - Eleanor. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Eleanor Weinstein. We extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Alan B. Lucas, Rabbi Rose Schecter, President       
 BERKMAN-Lillian R. We will miss our loyal friend, generous supporter and valued advisor. Dr. Mikhail Piotrovsky, Director, Hermitage Museum, joins us in sending warm regards to her family and friends. Board of Directors American Friends of the Hermitage Museum BERKMAN-Lillian. We gr
 FIDLER-Beatrice R. Died on Friday, May 4, 2001 as she approached her 100th birthday. Widow of Irving. Beloved mother of Roy and Jay. Adoring grandmother of Shelley, Meg, Josh, Lisa, and Matthew. Loving great-grandmother of Ali, Drew, Mica, Aaron, and Jake. Services Sunday, May 6, 10:00 AM a
 TEMPLETON-Mary (Murphy), 76 of Ramsey, NJ, formerly of New York, NY, died peacefully on May 3, 2001. Beloved wife of the late John (1978). Loving mother of John, Joan Walsh, Mary Fawcett and Richard. Devoted sister of Hannah and Denis. Cherished grandmother of John, Andrew, Mary, Blair, Meg
 ARONSON-Ruth Flax. Beloved wife and best friend of Richard Aronson. Passed away May 2, 2001 in New York City after a long and valiant battle with cancer. She will be sorely missed by all her many friends and by her colleagues at the Rogosin Institute where she was employed for her entire pr
 BERKMAN-Lillian D. The Board of Directors and Staff of Greenwich House mourn the loss of our esteemed former Director, Lillian D. Berkman. We remember her for her graciousness, kindnesses and contributions to our 99-year old settlement agency. Our condolences to her family and friends. Roy 
 BERMAN-Sarah. On May 1, 2001. She is mourned by her family Richard, Curt, Vivian, Rosemary and grandchildren and great grandchild. We miss her.       
 CHAPIN-Dorothy B. Of New Canaan, CT. Beloved mother to Dorothy (Didi) Ermo and H. King Chapin. Sister to Sylvia Weaber of St. John's, USVI; six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren also survive. She was predeceased by two grandchildren. Mrs. Chapin was the daughter of the late Freder
 FRANCIS-Myra J. Formerly of Manhattan, on April 29, 2001, at age 84. Graduate of Columbia University Teachers College. She was an esteemed educator, counselor and administrator with the NYC Board of Education. Loving aunt, grand aunt and cousin to many including Norma, John, Susan (USA), Sh
 GARVAN-Hope J. On April 26, 2001, at age 86. Loving mother of Patricia Graham-Collier. Services and interment private. Contributions in her memory may be made to Best Friends Animal Sanctuary in Kanab, UT 84741.       
 GOLDAPER-Claire. Beloved wife of the late Aaron. Devoted mother of Susan and the late Howard, and mother-in-law of Tony and Darlene. Loving grandmother of Carolyn, Mark, Andrew, Julie, Nancy and Kate. Adoring great-grandmother of Michael, Rebecca, Rachel, Allie, Sarah and Aimee. Graveside s
 GOZAN-Phoebe Starfield of Coconut Creek, FL. Formerly of Great Neck, NY. Devoted wife of late husband Henry A. Gozan, M.D.; loving mother of Judy Goldstein, Dr. Neil Gozan and Gale Antokal; grandmother of Henry and Samuel Gozan; dear sister of Esther Siegel and adored aunt of many neices an
 HOFFMAN-Paula L. May 5, 2001 at age of 91. Beloved wife of the late Joseph B. Hoffman. Loving and devoted mother of Richard and the late Benjamin Hoffman, cherished grandmother of Barbara Sussberg, Douglas Hoffman, Suzie Abrams, Joey Friedman and great grandmother of Samantha, Nicholas and 
 HYMER-Esther (nee Wanner). 102. Died April 4, 2001 at her Shrewsbury home of 64 years. Widow of Howard G. Hymer. Born July 20, 1898 in Chicago of Elizabeth Kleitz and Andrew Franklin Wanner. Survived by William (Elsie) and Elizabeth (Richard) Dudley. Memorial services will be held at 6PM on
 LAITMAN-Berdie (nee Herzlinger). May 2, 2001, peacefully in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Edwin M. Laitman. Loving mother of Lynn and Stuart Baldinger and Samuel and the late Lynn Laitman. Adored grandmother of Scott and Paula Baldinger, Mark Baldinger, Robin and Rod Dorman, Andre
 LAUFER-Evelyn G. Of Storrs, CT and Woods Hole, MA, beloved wife of Dr. Hans Laufer and adored mother of Jessica K. Laufer (Los Angeles, CA), Dr. Marc R. Laufer (Weston, MA), and Leonard J. Laufer (Scarsdale, NY), passed away quietly in her sleep following a valiant fight against ovarian can
 LEHMAN-Cecelia ''Sis''. 82. Of Iowa City, Iowa. Died Tuesday, April 24, 2001 of ovarian cancer. Services were April 28th in Iowa. She is survived by her children, William and Sandra Lehman of New York City, Donald and Bonnie Lehman of Michigan, JoAnne and Steve Hammes of Iowa and Patrick an
 SCHENKEL-Elizabeth Johnston of Vero Beach, FL, formerly of Garden City, NY, died May 2. She graduated Packer Collegiate Institute, Class of 1934 and became the first woman to graduate from New York Law School, Class of 1937. In 1992 she was honored by the law school and was awarded the Dist
 STADTMAUER-Paula. The entire Stadtmauer Bailkin family mourns the loss of our founding partner and friend David Stadtmauer's beloved wife, Paula. Whatever and whomever she touched experienced the genuine warmth and sincere interest she had in life. She will be sorely missed by us all. The P
 WINTERS-Pearl Warnow. Died April 28, 2001. Beloved wife of Larry Winters. Also survived by her children Carrie Makover and Stan Warnow. For information www. pearlwinters.homestead.com       
 Rita Hunter, the British soprano famed especially for her performances as Brünnhilde and Norma, died last Sunday in Sydney, Australia. She was 67. Possessed of an immense voice, forthright and ringing, Ms. Hunter in her prime, which coincided roughly with the 1970's, seemed ready t
 HOFFMAN-Paula L. May 5, 2001 at age of 91. Beloved wife of the late Joseph B. Hoffman. Loving and devoted mother of Richard and the late Benjamin Hoffman, cherished grandmother of Barbara Sussberg, Douglas Hoffman, Suzie Abrams, Joey Friedman and great grandmother of Samantha, Nicholas and 
 KALIK-Muriel. The Board of Directors, staff and members of the League For The Hard of Hearing mourn the passing of a dear friend and benefactor. Her concern, care and insight for the welfare of older adults with hearing loss helped us to respond in new and innovative ways to meet their need
 LAITMAN-Berdie (nee Herzlinger). May 2, 2001, peacefully in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Edwin M. Laitman. Loving mother of Lynn and Stuart Baldinger and Samuel and the late Lynn Laitman. Adored grandmother of Scott and Paula Baldinger, Mark Baldinger, Robin and Rod Dorman, Andre
 MEISTER-Wendy A. On May 5, 2001, at the age of 57, after a long and valiant four and a half year battle with cancer. Beloved wife, mother and best friend to her husband Robert and sons Todd and Keith. Loving daughter to her father, the late Sidney Alexander, and her mother Selma. Devoted si
 SGAMATTO-Kimberly Anne Kennedy. The entire College of Mt. Saint Vincent community expresses its heartfelt sorrow and mourns the untimely passing of Kimberly Anne Kennedy Sgamatto, Summa Cum Laude graduate of 1994. Our thoughts and prayers go out to her beloved husband Joseph Sgamatto, gradu
 STADTMAUER-Paula. We extend our heartfelt sympathies and condolences to our dear Helene, and to David, Susan and Alan, Nana and Lenny and their entire families upon the passing of their most beloved Paula. Energetic and inspiring to the end, she lived her life with boundless love for her hu
 SUNA-Rabbi Isaac. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Rochelle Ausubel upon the loss of her father. May the families be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 BERKMAN-Lillian. The members of The Lotos Club mourn the loss of their distinguished colleague and longtime friend, Lillian Berkman, and send condolences to her family. BERKMAN-Lillian R. Dear Lillian, we will always remember and cherish your kindness to us. You were a dear friend. 
 DONEGHY-Doe of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of New York City on May 6. Survived by her son David Doneghy, sisters Gloria Keane & Gail Asbury, niece Zandra & nephew Gregory. Memorial reception Wednesday, May 9 in Boynton Beach, FL (561) 735-3610. Contributions may be made to The Lupus Foundat
 JOHNSON-Evangeline (nee Ludie). Beloved wife of David died on Sat, May 5, 2001. She was a loving and devoted mother and grandmother. Funeral Services will be held on Tues, May 8th 7:30 PM at the Ebenezer Weslyan Methodist Church. Reposing at the Ebenezer Weslyan Methodist Church Tues, May 8
 KEAVENEY-Della (nee Molloy). Age 93 of Wayne, NJ on Saturday, May 5, 2001. Beloved wife of the late William Keaveney (1968); loving mother of Mary Ann Keaveney, Beatrice Ann Andersen both of Wayne, NJ, Thomas W. Keaveney of Holmdel, NJ and the late Catherine Errity (1997); sister of William
 MEAD-Janet Chase, 4/21/1918-5/ 5/2001 83, died at Yale New Haven Hospital, May 5, 2001 from cancer. She lived with her husband of 59 years, Lawrence M. Mead, at Evergreen Woods, a life care facility, in North Branford, CT. The Meads moved there in 1994 from Huntington, L.I., NY where they w
 MEISTER-Wendy. We extend heartfelt condolences to Robert, Todd, and Keith Meister, as well as Gail Mason and Richard Alexander on the untimely, sad passing of their beloved wife, mother and sister. A ''Woman of Valor'', Wendy was a role model to her family and friends. Her life was a blessi
 MILLER-Helena deKay Gilder, M.D. The last surviving granddaughter of Louis Comfort Tiffany, formerly of Upper Montclair, NJ and Tyringham, MA died at her home in Mitchellville, MD on April 6, 2001. She was 87. There will be a memorial service on June 22, 2001 at 2 p.m. in the Tyringham Unio
 RABBINER-Joan. With profound sadness we note the passing of Joan Rabbiner, the most wonderful wife, mother and mother-inlaw. She will be extraordinarily missed by her husband, Marvin, and her children, Susan, Nancy, David, Kenneth and Andrea, who loved her so very much, and by her friends w
 SCALZULLI-Norma. Beloved wife of Giovanni, cherished mother of Gina and Fritz, Alex and Jane, adored honey to Jacob, Dakota, and Michael. A woman of many talents, who was cherished, respected, loved, and will be greatly missed by all who knew her. Funeral services Wednesday, May 9, 2001 at 
 STADTMAUER-Paula. We mourn the loss of our beloved wife, daughter, sister, mother and Bobbi. We stand amazed at the intensity of her talents and the breadth of her achievements. Her energy, devotion and great humor were the center of our lives and we grieve the loss of her magical touch. He
 Dorothee Metlitzki, a retired professor of English at Yale and a prominent scholar of medieval Arabic, Middle English and Herman Melville, died on April 14 in Hamden, Conn. She was 86. Her most definitive work focused on the intersection of Arabic and English culture during the Midd
 Lillian R. Berkman, a pioneering businesswoman, a collector of Renaissance art and an arts patron involved with many of New York's cultural institutions, died on May 1 at her home in Manhattan. She was 79. The cause was liver failure. Ms. Berkman founded the American Tractor
 DONEGHY-Doe of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of New York City on May 6. Survived by her son David Doneghy, sisters Gloria Keane & Gail Asbury, niece Zandra & nephew Gregory. Memorial reception Wednesday, May 9 in Boynton Beach, FL (561) 735-3610. Contributions may be made to The Lupus Foundat
 LUPKIN-Rose. On May 4, 2001. Beloved sister of the late Sonia Kaye. Services were private. Contributions in her memory may be made to the International Center of New York, 50 West 23rd St., 7th Floor, New York, NY 10010-5205.       
 MEISTER-Wendy. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a dear friend, a highly respected member of the Jewish community, and beloved wife of Robert A. Meister, Board member of our Sy Syms School of Business. They are Fellows of the Syms School, Yeshiva College, and our affiliate
 NATIVIDADE-Nurimar. To ''Nury,'' beautiful woman who left us too soon. She was only 48 years old. Planning to go back to the love of her life, she died of cancer on April 30, 2001, at 3 AM. My memories, my love, my heart. Truly your friend, sister and caretaker. Goodbye, angel. Your sister,
 SAUNDERS - Gwendolyn. Born May 21, 1915 near Adelaide, Australia, the daughter of Augusta Wilhelmina Nossenheim of Saal, Germany and Arthur Saunders of Aberdeen, Scotland, Gwendolyn & her widowed mother arrived in Brooklyn in early 1918. A graduate of Brooklyn College, she worked as a legal
 SCALZULLI-Norma. Beloved wife of Giovanni, cherished mother of Gina and Fritz, Alex and Jane, adored honey to Jacob, Dakota, and Michael. A woman of many talents, who was cherished, respected, loved, and will be greatly missed by all who knew her. Funeral services Wednesday, May 9, 2001 at 
 Marie Jahoda, one of the world's foremost social psychologists and an emeritus professor at the University of Sussex, died on April 28 at her home in Keymer, in southeast England. Dr. Jahoda, who taught at New York University in the 1950's, was 94. In a long career as a researcher, 
 BELL-Mary Fischer. Mary Fischer Bell's long and f ull life ended peacefully on May 8, 2001. Born Mary Agatha Fischer in Newark, NJ on June 25, 1912, she grew up in the Bronx, attended St. A thanasius School, and graduated from Ursuline Academy. Mary earned a B.A. in History from the College
 COOK-Doris A. On May 8, 2001. Retired Senior Associate Director of Nursing at Beth Israel Medi cal Center. Lifelong companion Karen Kirschner. Devoted sister of Ralph (Freeda) Cook. Dear aunt and great aunt. Friends may call at A ndrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave (at 20th St), NYC, Friday
 FRIEDMAN-Sidney. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Sidney Fried man, beloved husband of Barbara Friedman. We extend our deepest condol ences to Barbara and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rab bi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President 
 KURZ-Jessie I. A beloved aunt to countless nieces and nephews, devoted wife of the late Aaron Kurz, and a friend to all with whom she came in contact, Jessie I. Kurz passed away on May 8, 2001, at the age of 97. Mrs. Kurz, affectionately known by everyone as just ''Aunt Jessie,'' was a pion
 ME ISTER-Wendy. We wish to express our heartfelt condolences to the Meister family. Wendy's courage, compassion and love of li fe will be an inspiration to us all. We will greatly miss her. Andre a and John Stark Candice and Steven Stark       
 SAUNDERS - Gwendolyn. Born May 21, 1915 near Adelaide, Australia, the daug hter of Augusta Wilhelmina Nossenheim of Saal, Germany and Arthur Saunders of Aberdeen, Scotland, Gwendolyn & her widowed mother ar rived in Brooklyn in early 1918. A graduate of Brooklyn College, she worked as a leg
 SCALA-Helen T. (Griffin). Of Harrison, Ne w York and New Marlboro, MA, died on May 8th, 2001 at St. Agnes Hospi tal. She was seventy-four years old. Her loving husband Anthony of fift y-one years of marriage survives her. She was the devoted mother of five sons. Helen Scala was born May 17,
 SPAETH-Rebecca Kelle y, 78. Died after a long illness in Eastern Long Island Hospital, Gr eenport, NY on May 8, 2001. Mrs. Spaeth is survived by her husband Ed ward A. of Mattituck, NY, a daughter, Rebecca Kelley Crumlish of Washington, DC, a sister, Katherine Kelley Crumlish and three step
 BELL-Mary Fischer. Mary Fischer Bell's long and full life ended peacefully on May 8, 2001. Born Mary Agatha Fischer in Newark, NJ on June 25, 1912, she grew up in the Bronx, attended St. Athanasius School, and graduated from Ursuline Academy. Mary earned a B.A. in History from the College o
 BERKLEY-Barbara. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mrs. Barbara (Bobbie) Berkley, an esteemed member and extend to her beloved husband, Robert and family its deepest sympathy. Arthur I. Frankel, President Brian J. Strum, Secr
 COOPER-Lynne S. The current and former Board of Directors and staff of An Uncommon Legacy Foundation mourn the loss of our good friend and supporter, Lynne Cooper. Lynne worked tirelessly on issues of women's health and chaired our health committee. We will miss her greatly.       
 FISCHER-Ruth (nee Langholtz). On May 10, 2001. Loving wife of Sol. Beloved mother of Barry and daughter-in-law Beth. Cherished and devoted aunt and great aunt. Funeral services on Friday, 12 noon from the Garlick-Riverside Memorial Chapel, 1439 Unionport Road, Bronx, NY. Donations in her me
 HORMAN-D. Elizabeth. At age 96. Gifted artist. Passed away peacefully on May 10, 2001. Graduated from Barnard and studied at NYC Art Students League. Beloved wife of the late Edmund Horman. Loving mother of the late Charles Horman who was killed in Chile in 1973 during Pinochet's violent co
 KURZ-Jessie I. A beloved aunt to countless nieces and nephews, devoted wife of the late Aaron Kurz, and a friend to all with whom she came in contact, Jessie I. Kurz passed away on May 8, 2001, at the age of 97. Mrs. Kurz, affectionately known by everyone as just ''Aunt Jessie,'' was a pion
 LEVINE-Helen. The members, Board of Governors, and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our longtime member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to her husband, George, and the entire family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 LIFSCHULTZ - Charlotte. The Board of Governors and members of Hampshire Country Club are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Charlotte Lifschultz. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her dear husband Sidney, and to all her family. Hampshire Country Club Board of Governo
 ROSS-Marilyn I., MSW, CSW-R. Born July 7, 1949-died peacefully on May 10, 2001. Beloved wife of Edward Poteet. Loving mother of Jeremy and Caitlin. Daughter of Jean Ross and the Late John Ross, Sister of Michael Ross and Joanne Schenendorf. Funeral Service Friday 2:30PM, May 11th at the Dix
 SCALA-Helen T. (Griffin). Of Harrison, New York and New Marlboro, MA, died on May 8th, 2001 at St. Agnes Hospital. She was seventy-four years old. Her loving husband Anthony of fifty-one years of marriage survives her. She was the devoted mother of five sons. Helen Scala was born May 17, 19
 SILVERMAN-Sybil. Beloved sister of the late Muriel Schwartz and George Silverman, aunt and great aunt, died May 9, 2001. Born on September 25, 1918, Baltimore, MD-moved to NYC as a child. Worked for Standard & Poor's for over 30 years. Served proudly as a sergeant in the U.S. Women's Army C
 BERKLEY-Barbara Glasgall. On May 10, at home. Bobbie inspired family and friends with her warmth, wit, charity and love. She was a vibrant and passionate woman who frequently devoted her efforts to political and educational campaigns. She loved sports and enjoyed competing and developing he
 GOTTDIENER - Ruth Jentzer. Camp Rangers' Aunt Ruth's long and full life ended peacefully on May 10, 2001. Born July 21, 1903, Ruth spent her life helping make the lives of others more meaningful. Mother to Stephen and Phyllis. Loving grandmother to Gary, Scott, Sheryl and Karen. Adoring gre
 STEINBERG-Miriam. Died May 10, 2001. Devoted sister of Frances Anchin and Dr. Bernard Steinberg. Loving aunt, great-aunt & grandaunt. She was a master teacher who loved her work and the children. Graveside service on Sunday, May 13th at 10:30 AM at Mount Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY.      
 Sarah Tomerlin Lee, whose career in fashion, advertising, retailing and interior design spanned more than six decades, until her retirement three years ago, died on April 15 at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. Mrs. Lee, an imposing woman who was rarely seen without her pearls, cam
 Lillemor Taylor Robb, chairwoman of the New York State Commission on Judicial Conduct from 1975 to 1989, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Albany. She was in her 80's and lived in Slingerlands, N.Y. The cause was a stroke, her family said. Mrs. Robb, a political independent w
 BARTOK-LeAnn. Noted pioneering conceptual visionary artist, painter, film maker, sculptor, poet, actress, passed away on Wednesday, May 9, at her art studio in NYC. Born August 1, 1937, in Martin's Ferry, OH. Graduated from Mercy Hospital School of Nursing, Pittsburh, PA. Actress in early 1
 BERKLEY-Barbara Glasgall. On May 10, at home. Bobbie inspired family and friends with her warmth, wit, charity and love. She was a vibrant and passionate woman who frequently devoted her efforts to political and educational campaigns. She loved sports and enjoyed competing and developing he
 DUBIN-Anna. The family announces with sadness the passing of Anna Dubin on Friday, May 11, at age 104. Beloved mother of Esther Lichtman, Lillian Lashinsky and the late David Dubin, cherished sister of Pauline Frankel and the late Abe Weissman and Fanny Karp. Much loved grandmother, great-g
 GOTTDIENER - Ruth Jentzer. Camp Ranger's Aunt Ruth's long and full life ended peacefully on May 10, 2001. Born July 21, 1903, Ruth spent her life helping make the life of others more meaningful. Mother to Stephen and Phyllis, loving grandmother to Gary, Scott, Sheryl and Karen, adoring grea
 HORMAN-D. Elizabeth. At age 96. Gifted artist. Passed away peacefully on May 10, 2001. Graduated from Barnard and studied at NYC Art Students League. Beloved wife of the late Edmund Horman. Loving mother of the late Charles Horman who was killed in Chile in 1973 during Pinochet's violent co
 KURZ-Jessie I. A beloved aunt to countless nieces and nephews, devoted wife of the late Aaron Kurz, and a friend to all with whom she came in contact, Jessie I. Kurz passed away on May 8, 2001, at the age of 97. Mrs. Kurz, affectionately known by everyone as just ''Aunt Jessie,'' was a pion
 O'HARA-Nancy J. Passed away at her home in Manhattan on April 25, 2001. Loving mother of Deirdre. There will be a memorial service on Friday, May 18, 11 AM, at Marble Collegiate Church, 29 St and Fifth Ave. In lieu of flowers donations may be made in her name to God's Love We Deliver. For f
 SAIMOVICI-Adelina. On Friday, May 4, (retired) pharmacist in Romania and Israel, after a long illness. She is survived by her son Liviu B. Saimovici, MD, Ophthalmologist in Manhattan. She was loved by all as she touched their lives with her kindness and beautiful smile. She will be sorely m
 SCHNEIDER-Helen L. May 10, 2001, peacefully at age 94. Loving mother of Linda H. Schneider. Beloved and devoted grandmother of Claudia L. Field. Cherished aunt to Anna, Lucy, Louise and Robert. Dearest and long time friend of Eleanor Stier. Thankful for loving and devoted caregiver Mary Den
 SOLOMON-Estelle. On May 11, 2001, age 88. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Solomon M.D. Loving mother of Gail Solomon M.D. and Harvey Hecht M.D. Adoring grandmother of Daniel, Jonathan and Elizabeth. Graduate of NYU. Dedicated to family, Jewish causes and helping others, particularly in work
 WYNN-Daisy. Age 85. Died peacefully on May 10. The beloved wife of Harry, she raised two sons, Jonathan and David, two loving daughter-in-laws, Ellen and Joan and six adoring grandchildren, Jared, Adam, Lowell, Jennifer, Daniel and Jason. She devoted her life to her family and improving the
 CARRIER-Lisa. Age 38 of New York City, NY, on May 11, 2001. Lisa's warmth, wit and beauty enchanted all who knew her. Her valiant struggle against pancreatic cancer taught us the true meaning of bravery and dignity. In her final months she earned her cerfitication to captain large for-hire 
 CERUSSI-Gloria M. Entered into rest on May 11, 2001. She will be mourned by her brother, sister, nephew and extended family.       
 DEVLIN-Gail E. On May 12, 2001, at age 62. Senior Vice President of The Chubb Corporation. Beloved daughter of Colonel and Mrs. Edward T. Devlin Sr. Loving sister of Patricia A. Moore and Edward T. Devlin Jr. Devoted aunt of Diane P. Jones, Beth A. Eagan, Sean E. Devlin and great-aunt of Co
 FISHER-Suzanne. On may 12, 2001. Loving wife of Richard. Beloved daughter of Carol Ehlers. Cherished sister of Elizabeth and brothers Robert, Thomas, and David. Donations in her memory can be made to either the Animal Medical Center of NY or the ASPCA. Services private. FISHER-Suzan
 GOTTDIENER - Ruth Jentzer. Camp Rangers' Aunt Ruth's long and full life ended peacefully on May 10, 2001. Born July 21, 1903, Ruth spent her life helping make the lives of others more meaningful. Mother to Stephen and Phyllis. Loving grandmother to Gary, Scott, Sheryl and Karen. Adoring gre
 O'HARA-Nancy J. Passed away at her home in Manhattan on April 25, 2001. Loving mother of Deirdre. There will be a memorial service on Friday, May 18, 11 AM, at Marble Collegiate Church, 29 St and Fifth Ave. In lieu of flowers donations may be made in her name to God's Love We Deliver. For f
 ROSS-Mimi. Age 67, of Shelter Island, NY. On May 12, 2001, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of Gerald. Loving mother of Glen, Andrew and Robert, and mother-inlaw of Kirsten and Mary. Adored grandmother of Anthony, Sarah, Shelley, Jake and Carolyn. Mimi lived a full and active life, both 
 BERKLEY-Barbara. The Joyce Theater mourns the passing of Bobbi Berkley, a devoted patron of dance. Deepest condolences to her husband, Bob, and her children. The Board and Staff of the Joyce Theater       
 CHARLES-Michael. On May 14, 2001. Beloved husband of Dora, loving father of Toby Carsons and her husband, David, Steven and Matthew Charles. Cherished grandfather of Adam and Jared. Also survived by many loving relatives in Sweden and Israel. Services Wednesday, 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'
 DEVLIN-Gail E. On May 12, 2001, at age 62. Senior Vice President of The Chubb Corporation. Beloved daughter of Colonel and Mrs. Edward T. Devlin Sr. Loving sister of Patricia A. Moore and Edward T. Devlin Jr. Devoted aunt of Diane P. Jones, Beth A. Eagan, Sean E. Devlin and great-aunt of Co
 EICHEL-Joy. Beloved wife of Morton. Loving mother of Roger and Sondra, Hillary and Peter. Proud grandmother of Scott, Jeremy, Marc & Melissa. Her warm, funny and embracing personality will live with us forever. Donations to The West Long Branch Library, West Long Branch, N.J. 07764.       
 FISHER-Suzanne. On may 12, 2001. Loving wife of Richard. Beloved daughter of Carol Ehlers. Cherished sister of Elizabeth and brothers Robert, Thomas, and David. Donations in her memory can be made to either the Animal Medical Center of NY or the ASPCA. Services private. FISHER-Suzan
 FRIED-Ghita. Beloved matriarch of her family, died Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. She is survived by a daughter, Marilyn Frank, Teaneck, NJ; a son, Jeffrey Krugman, Roslyn Heights, NY, and seven grandchildren. Devoted wife to first Barnett and later Morris, both deceased. Serv
 GHITELMAN-Florence. In her 97th year. Devoted wife of her late husband Jacob, mother of Simon, Gilbert and her late son Lawrence. A not so tough lady who knew how to make a tender chicken. She will be sorely missed by all who were touched by her kind and generous spirit. Services Wednesday,
 KARMAN-Jane (Nee Shankman). Wife of the late Sam. Our Aunt Jane passed away peacefully on May 12, 2001 at her home in Plantation Florida. We will remember her indomitable spirit and courage as she confronted life's challenges with enviable vitality, humor and balance. Our condolences to her
 MENDELWAGER-Lucille. Formerly of Searingtown, LI, passed away on May 13th, 2001. Lucille is survived by her loving husband of 54 years, Jack, and her children, Greg, Robin, Yoly and Terri. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, May 16th, 11 AM, at Beth Israel Cemetery in Edison, NJ. Contr
 MIDDLETON-Catherine Stapleton, 74, of Brooklyn, New York, and Rowayton, CT, died May 13. She was the daughter of the late Luke D. Stapleton and Catherine Farrell Stapleton, and the granddaughter of the late James A. Farrell, Sr. Mass will be celebrated on May 17 at 11 AM at St. Joseph's Rom
 MORGAN-Janet. The entire Long Island College Hospital family mourns the passing of Janet Morgan, on Saturday May 12, 2001, and extend condolences to her beloved daughter, Nancy. Mrs. Morgan, a member of The Long Island College Hospital Guild, was the wife of the late E. King Morgan, M.D., C
 NAPHTALIE-Paula. On May 14, 2001. Former New York Public School teacher until her retirement in 1977. Beloved sister of Shirley Sandell, dear aunt of Jerry Sandell, Phyllis Sandell, Janet Sandell Sachs, and the late Steven Sandell. Also survived by eight great nieces and nephews. Services T
 WEEN-Dorothy Lederman. Born August 15, 1919. Passed away on May 14, 2001. Adored wife of Sidney. Devoted mother of Pamela Brumberg and Jeffrey. Dear mother-in-law of Stephan Brumberg and Bonnie Kozek. Beloved sister of Harriet Milgrim & David Lederman. Loving grandmother of Joshua and Rache
 Dr. Anne Anastasi, whose influence is felt by every student who takes a psychology course and by anyone who fills in the answers on a standardized test intended to measure achievement, intelligence, aptitude, personality or creativity, died on May 4 at her home in Manhattan. She was 92.    
 DAVIDOFF-Ida F. EdD. Passed away May 11, 2001. Marital and Family Therapist and Lecturer on healthy aging. Memorial service 4pm, June 8 at her home. Donations in lieu of flowers to the Banyan Tree Fund c/o The Fairfield County Foundation, 523 Danbury Road, Wilton, Ct. 06897.       
 DEVLIN-Gail E. On May 12, 2001, at age 62. Senior Vice President of The Chubb Corporation. Beloved daughter of Colonel and Mrs. Edward T. Devlin Sr. Loving sister of Patricia A. Moore and Edward T. Devlin Jr. Devoted aunt of Diane P. Jones, Beth A. Eagan, Sean E. Devlin and great-aunt of Co
 FRIEDLANDER-Bea (Trager). A longtime devoted member of The Shelter Rock Jewish Center in Roslyn, New York. Bea's spirit was indomitable and contagious. A devoted wife, mother and grandmother. She will be missed by all of us. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster Laurence A. Feldman, President       
 KARMAN-Jane (Nee Shankman). Wife of the late Sam. Our Aunt Jane passed away peacefully on May 12, 2001 at her home in Plantation Florida. We will remember her indomitable spirit and courage as she confronted life's challenges with enviable vitality, humor and balance. Our condolences to her
 LAWLOR-Frances Walsh. Wife of DFC winner John L. Lawlor. Attended Prospect Hill School and Pine Manor College. Assistant Advertising Manager Saks 1945-'47, staff member Mystic Seaport Museum since 1980. Beloved mother of Elizabeth Davis, Nancy Pennington, Mary Lawlor, Sarah Pearce. Will be 
 PEARLE-Sophie. Age 96. Beloved mother of Harriet and Edward Goodstone. Loving grandmother of Marjorie, Michael and Lori Goodstone. Great grandmother of Adam and Emily Goodstone. We love her and will miss her. Funeral 10AM Thursday, Jewish Center of the Hamptons. PEARLE-Sophie. The J
 ROOT-Nanda. May 15, 2001. Beloved wife of John B. Root. Devoted mother of Melina Root-Stevens. Loving sister of Dimitri Bourouni and Anastasia Tangalakis. She was a lyricist, writer and translator, as well as a dedicated volunteer at the Lighthouse. She will be deeply missed by all who knew
 TREVOR-Evelyn L. Bruen. May 14, 2001 at Palm Beach. Greatgreat granddaughter of John Jay, first Chief Justice of the United States. Survived by her husband of 62 years, John B. Trevor, Jr. three children, nine grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.       
 Eleanor Axson Sayre, an authority on the prints of Francisco Goya and one of the first female curators at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, died Saturday. She was 85 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. A granddaughter of Woodrow Wilson, Ms. Sayre was born in Philadelphia in 1916. She earne
 DAVIDOFF-Ida, Ed. D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University notes with deep sorrow the passing of our distinguished former faculty member in psychiatry. She was also the widow of Dr. Leo Davidoff, the founding chairman of our surgery department. We extend our heartfelt co
 DODGE-Ruth Quackenbush. Memorial services for Ruth Quackenbush Dodge, 90, of Bowling Green, OH. will be at 11 AM, Saturday, May 19, 2001 at Carronor Hunt and Polo Club in Perrysburg, OH conducted by the Reverend J. Paul Board of St. Paul's Episcopal Church, Maumee. Mrs. Dodge was formerly a
 FISHER-Suzanne. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Suzanne Fisher, beloved wife of Richard, and a cherished friend of our community, who embraced her family's commitment to Jewish philanthropic causes. The Fisher fam
 FLACHBARTH - Virginia Bush Slook. Died May 15, 2001 in Parkersburg, West Va. of congested heart failure. Burial will be in Philadelphia. She was a direct descendant of Richard Peters, Secretary of War under the Articles of Confederation and a member of the Continental Congress. Richard Pete
 GOLDING-Amy. 77 years. Passed away suddenly at home. Beloved cousin of Elise Josephson, David Abrahams and Elihu Abrahams. Neighbors and friends mourn her loss. Services Sunday 11:30AM at Gramercy Park Memorial Chapel, 152 2nd Ave. (at 10th St), NYC.       
 HELLER-Estelle Broadman. Beloved wife of the late Sol Heller, mother of Anthony and Daniel, grandmother of Ry, Lauren and Jill, on May 11, 2001 in Ashland, Oregon. We will miss her.       
 McMAHON-Marie (nee Stringer. Of Bayonne, NJ, on May 13, 2001. Beloved wife of William, devoted mother of Eileen Marie and William Jr. Born in Jersey City, she worked for Merrill Lynch before marrying her husband, a sales and marketing executive. At the time of her death, Mrs. McMahon was th
 ROOT-Nanda. May 15, 2001. Beloved wife of John B. Root. Devoted mother of Melina Root-Stevens. Loving sister of Dimitri Bourouni and Anastasia Tangalakis. She was a lyricist, writer and translator, as well as a dedicated volunteer at the Lighthouse. She will be deeply missed by all who knew
 SOMMER-Esther. My beloved mother has joined my father Smitty and my sister Bonnie at rest, leaving me Elissa, her second daughter, alone in my grief. Mother is survived by the love of her life, her grandson Michael Samuel, named in blessed memory of my father and Zadie. Her sisters and brot
 WALSH-Dr. Wanda S. On May 16, age 74 after a short illness. She is survived by her husband of 48 years, Dr. Robert J. Walsh, whom she met in their first year at NYU Medical School. They graduated together in the class of 1950. She was an attending Pediatrician at NYU-Bellevue for 50 years a
 WEINTRAUB-Sarah Regina, 101. Peacefully passed away May 15, 2001 in her sleep. Born in New York City in 1899, she celebrated living in three centuries with her family and many friends. After almost nine decades as a staunch New Yorker, Sarah moved to Palm Desert, CA, where she lived for twe
 BENARESH - Edmond. WIZO mourns with the Benaresh and Aghravi families and we embrace Azita on the loss of her father. Evelyn Sommer, President WIZO USA Gail Perl, Chairman Young Leadership       
 CONE-Peggy L. The music world mourns the loss of New York jazz icon, Peggy Cone. Bandleader, swing dancer, singer, and composer, Peggy passed away at her home in New York City on February 5th, due to liver cancer. She is survived by her beloved sister, Carol Cone, and her brotherin-law, Har
 EHRENS-Frieda Bell. Age 92, in Brick, NJ on May 16, 2001. Born Frieda Alva Pollock on April 25, 1909 in New York City, she was the only child of Russian Jewish immigrants. She graduated from the Julliard School of Music, and won the gold medal in the piano competition from The New York Musi
 FEIFER-Blanche. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 FISHER-Suzanne. It is with great sadness that the Board, staff and friends of Lincoln Center mourn the passing of Suzanne Fisher. Our thoughts and prayers are with her husband, Richard L. Fisher, a cherished member of the Lincoln Center Board of Directors. We extend our heartfelt sympathy t
 HAGGETT-Leona (nee Rayben). In her 90th year. Wife of the late Arthur S. Haggett. Beloved mother of Simone and Alan Hartman, and Lois and Burton Spring. Loving grandmother of Andrew Spring, and Rochelle and Adam Flint. Cherished sister of Yvette Rosenberg. She will always be in our hearts. 
 SCHAFFER-Rae, 94. Widow of Leo. Beloved mother of Jerry and Dan. Loving mother-in-law of Susan, Sally & the late Judy. Adoring grandmother of Noah. Dearest sister of Pearl Wald. Best friend of Helen Shapiro. Step-grandmother of Judi, Steve & Lou Ann, Michael and Hanna, and step-great grandm
 SOLOWACHIK - SOLOWAY - Ger trude. aka Aunt Gerty. December 18, 1906-May 16, 2001. Much too soon. Beloved aunt and great aunt extraordinaire. We will all miss her delicious wit, keen mind, joie de vivre and love of family. Services 1PM, Friday, May 18th. Sinai Chapels, Queens, NY SOL
 WEINGARTEN-Dr. Ruth. On May 15, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Morris Weingarten. Loving mother of Alex and Meryl Weingarten, Karen and Sheldon Schwartz and Julian and Sidney. Sister of Florence Maslow, Leonard Weinberger and the late Miriam Wertentheil. Cherished by six grandchildren. 
 Anita Moore, who sang with Duke Ellington in the early 1970's in his last years and later with Mercer Ellington's band, died on April 28 in Houston. She was 51 and lived in Houston. She died of congestive heart failure, said her sister, Franchon Moore.  She had been in a coma since 
 Carmencita Romero, who performed with Katherine Dunham in her first company, the Negro Dance Group, in the mid-1930's, died on May 6 at the Florence Nightingale Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 87. Ms. Romero, whose name was originally Lily Butler but changed her name at M
 Ida Fisher Davidoff, a family counselor and expert on aging, died on May 11 at a chronic care center in New Canaan, Conn. She was 97. Dr. Davidoff took pleasure in debunking stereotypes about the elderly and continued to see clients at her home office in New Canaan until a few weeks
 BURDING-Margaret A. (Peg), 57. Died in Orlando, FL May 15, 2001, after a short illness. Originally from Bronxville, New York, she graduated from Colby College. She was a Sales Promotion Specialist spending most of her career in the New York metropolitan area with consumer product companies,
 SCHAFFER-Rae, 94. Widow of Leo. Beloved mother of Jerry and Dan. Loving mother-in-law of Susan, Sally & the late Judy. Adoring grandmother of Noah. Dearest sister of Pearl Wald. Best friend of Helen Shapiro. Step-grandmother of Judi, Steve & Lou Ann, Michael and Hanna, and step-great grandm
 AI-Bertha (Zhang Yuan Wo). 92. On May 13, 2001, in NYC. Formerly of Shanghai, China. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Henry K.F. Ai, cherished mother and devoted grandmother. Scholar, intellectual and professor of chemistry and physics. From a family of imperial Chinese high court officials, sh
 EATON-Kate (Sadler, Britton). Our dearest friend. Bright and witty, loyal and giving, independent of mind and spirit, a talented actress and performer in her beloved England & here. A beautiful person. Her many friends will miss Katie always.       
 KLONER-Sydelle E., 76. Of Lake Worth, FL, passed away May 17, 2001. Dearest beloved wife of Nat for 54 years, loving and cherished mother of Linda Kloner and Joseph Kloner, loved sister of Natalie (Harry) Koppel and Arline (Stanley) Bauman. Much loved cousin, aunt and great aunt. We will al
 LAPIN-Florence I. Eisenberg, 94, of Main Street, Stockbridge, MA, and formerly of 20 East 9th St., New York City, died Monday. Mrs. Lapin is survived by her daughter: Charlotte R. Isaacs of Stockbridge, Massachusetts; her son and daughter-in-law: Earl M. and Illean Lapin of Potomac, MD; her
 RIDLEY-Katherine Raub. The Preservation League of New York State mourns the death of our Staff Counsel, Katherine Raub Ridley, Director of the League's Legal Services Program. Kathie was known across our state and the United States for her singular role in advancing and defending preservati
 ROSS-Beatrice E. ''Beaty.'' NY, New York, age 91, died in her home on Monday, May 14, 2001. Mrs. Ross was born October 14, 1909, and was married to New York attorney Meyer William Ross who predeceased her. She was also predeceased by her brother Irwin (Buddy) Eckstein. Mrs. Ross is survived
 RUSSELL-Catherine C. (nee Reilly), May 17, 2001. Beloved wife of the late David V. of NY and Rossmore in Jamesburg, NJ. Also survived by 4 nephews and 2 nieces. Relatives and friends are invited to attend her Funeral Mass Monday 11AM St. Joan of Arc Church, 82nd St. Jackson Heights, Queens 
 SCHAFFER-Rae, 94. Widow of Leo. Beloved mother of Jerry and Dan. Loving mother-in-law of Susan, Sally & the late Judy. Adoring grandmother of Noah. Dearest sister of Pearl Wald. Best friend of Helen Shapiro. Step-grandmother of Judi, Steve & Lou Ann, Michael and Hanna, and step-great grandm
 SEARS-Sally. A producer of Broadway and off-Broadway theater for almost thirty years, died April 15, 2001, Easter Sunday, at her home in New York City. Ms. Sears was a patron of the arts and was especially devoted to the performing arts. She was a co-producer of the Broadway revival of ''Ro
 SINGER-Rose S. On May 18, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Loving mother of Henry and Amy Singer, Elizabeth and Dennis Hevey, Margery and Steven Honig. Adoring grandmother of Priscilla and Jamie Halper, Andrew and Nancy Singer, Stephanie and Brad Ebner, Lauren Singer, Gillian and Jen
 TEITELBAUM-Lucia M. (nee Helmick). On May 16, 2001, of Orangeburg, NY. She was an architect, an artist, a graduate of Parson's School of Design, Traphagen, Arts Student League and Cooper Union. Dear wife of Herbert. Beloved mother and grandmother. Visiting hours Sunday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at M
 WALSH-Wanda. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of NYU School of Medicine note with great sorrow the passing of Wanda Walsh, MD, a beloved pediatrician and teacher for generations of students and residents who trained at Bellevue Hospital. With deep connections to our institution, Dr. Walsh ea
 WEISS-Eugenia. We mourn with the Tetenbaum and Sobie families and embrace Roxana on the loss of her grandmother. Evelyn Sommer President, WIZO USA       
 Susannah McCorkle, the sultry voiced pop-jazz singer who brought a rare literary refinement to popular standards, was found dead outside her apartment at 41 West 86th Street early yesterday morning. She was 55. She had apparently jumped to her death, the police said. She had left a 
 Ann Tanneyhill, a counselor who was the National Urban League's director of vocational services from 1947 to 1961, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Mashpee, Mass. She was 95. For more than 40 years, beginning in 1930, she was on the headquarters staff of the league, a movement d
 BORUS-Tobie. Died May 19, 2001. Wife of the late Philip. Wonderful mother, grandmother, friend. She will be deeply missed by those who loved her.       
 HILL-Meta Eleanor. On May 18, after a courageous battle. Best wife of almost 57 years to Fred. Mother of Yvonne Barbara Hill, Jacqueline Diane Geller, Ellen Renee Simon. Grandmother of Eric, Michael and Jennifer and great grandmother of Brooke. Motherin-law of Peter and Allison. Sister of F
 MITCHELL-Sondra. The law firm of Stout and Thomas mourns the loss of its distinguished secretary, administrator and friend who provided more than 25 years of loyal service with distinction, elegance and grace. All who knew her were touched by her charm and warmth. Our sympathy is extended t
 SILVER-Johana (Jodi) 51, of West Brighton died at home on May 19, 2001. She is survived by her husband, Jerrold, and her three sons, Matthew, Joshua and Lee, her mother, Naida Piccolo and her brother, John. Funeral services will be held on Tuesday, May 22 at 10 AM at Congretation B'nai Jesh
 SINGER-Rose. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime former member, Rose Singer, and extend to the members of her family our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary       
 Susannah McCorkle, the sultry voiced pop-jazz singer who brought a rare literary refinement to popular standards, was found dead outside her apartment at 41 West 86th Street early Saturday. She was 55. She had apparently jumped to her death, the police said. She had left a suicide n
 BULKA-Naomi. The officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the untimely and tragic passing of Rebbetzin Naomi Bulka, beloved wife of Rabbi Reuven Bulka, esteemed friend and leader; immediate past chairman of our Rabbinic Cabinet. Our heartfelt condolences to the family. May they be 
 HAYNES-Evelyn G. On May 19, 2001 at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Justin O'Brien Haynes. Loving mother of Sheila Haynes Hale, Amanda Haynes-Dale and stepmother of Justin O'Brien Haynes, Jr. Adoring grandmother of John Justin Hale, Campbell Justin Haynes-Dale and great-grandmother of Beat
 LEHRER-Phyllis. 73. Of Delray Beach, FL. Passed away on May 20. She is survived by her loving husband, Stanley, devoted children, Marc, Karen and Andrew. Cherished grandchildren Cody, Michael, Remi and Brian. Adored brother Arnold Palmer. Funeral services will be held on Thursday, May 24th,
 MILLER-Florence (Nee Hecht). 89. Beloved wife of the late Maurice J. Loving mother of Madeline and Edward Redstone, Charles & Lee Miller. Adoring grandmother of Steven (Michele), Lawrence (Jennifer), Howard (Jennifer), Adam and Pamela. Cherished great-grandmother of Amanda, Melissa and John
 ROSENCRANS-Barbara. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and staff of the Muttontown Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Barbara Rosencrans, and extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Leslie and her children Charles and JoEllen. Steven Goldstein, President Frances Lilling
 SMALL-Roberta A. Of Clinton Corners, New York, & Manhattan. Devoted mother, mother-in-law, grandmother, sister and aunt, died on May 21, 2001 from complications due to cancer. An advertising executive before retiring to the country life where she became active in local politics and assumed 
 SMITH-Molly. Passed away on May 15, 2001 in Plantation, Florida at the age of 83. She was a former resident of Brooklyn, NY. She is survived by her son, Warren Smith and his wife Anita of Glen Oaks, Queens. She is also survived by granddaughter Judith Dajnowski of Bayside, Queens and a grea
 Colleagues and friends gathered on Sunday night at the New York State Theater to remember Tanaquil Le Clercq, the elegant ballerina of the New York City Ballet who died on New Year's Eve at the age of 71. In a career that lasted little more than a decade, from 1945 to 1956, when she
 BERTIN-Dorothy (nee Segal). On May 21. Loving wife of Sidney Bertin, sister of Joan Hirst, mother of Michael and Susan. She was the grandmother of Amy, Laura, Sarah and Anna. Dorothy was the great grandmother of Ted, Allison, Nathan, and Jeffrey and she had many nieces and nephews. She was 
 de ROCHEMONT-Jane (nee Meyerhoff). Died at home on Tuesday, May 22, 2001 after a long illness. Widow of Richard de Rochemont. Survived by her sister Joan M. Kaplan of Pittsburgh, PA, and three nephews. Funeral services at All Saints Church, 230 East 60th Street, NYC on Thursday, May 24 at 1
 GAULT-Rosemary Ford, peacefully at home on May 19, 2001 after a long illness. Leaves her husband Matthew Gault, daughters Rosette Ford Gault and Virginia Gault, grandson Matthew Freeman, sister Patricia Ford Smith, predeceased by her daughter Harriet Gault Freeman and parents Henry W. Ford 
 GINSBURG-Frieda Abadi (Fritzie). On May 22, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Lewis, devoted mother of Annette Hidary and the late Esther Friedberg. Dear sister of Abe Abadi, Adele Sutton, Evelyn Rahmey, and Seymour Abadi. Loving grandmother of Mark and Jeffrey Friedberg, Jennifer Abadi, and V
 HAYNES-Evelyn G. On May 19, 2001 at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Justin O'Brien Haynes. Loving mother of Sheila Haynes Hale, Amanda Haynes-Dale and stepmother of Justin O'Brien Haynes, Jr. Adoring grandmother of John Justin Hale, Campbell Justin Haynes-Dale and great-grandmother of Beat
 MILLER-Florence (Nee Hecht). 89. Beloved wife of the late Maurice J. Loving mother of Madeline and Edward Redstone, Charles & Lee Miller. Adoring grandmother of Steven (Michele), Lawrence (Jennifer), Howard (Jennifer), Adam and Pamela. Cherished great-grandmother of Amanda, Melissa and John
 NOVOK-Ruth H., 5/21/01. Loving wife of the late William Novok. Cherished mom of Judy and Donald; mother-in-law of Walter and Anna-Marie; surrogate mom of Nell and Aaron; stepmom of Andy and Eileen; grandma of Liz, Cyndi and Bob, Loren and Mike, Mark and Stenin; great-grandma of Christine. R
 SMALL-Roberta A. Of Clinton Corners, New York, & Manhattan. Devoted mother, mother-in-law, grandmother, sister and aunt, died on May 21, 2001 from complications due to cancer. An advertising executive before retiring to the country life where she became active in local politics and assumed 
 SOLNICK-Dorothy. On May 21, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. Loving aunt to Stanley Guss, Allene Grognet, Joan Friedman and Jess Edwards. She died peacefully in her sleep at 107 years. She will be long remembered by her family, friends and mostly by her former students. Graveside ser
 WECHSLER-Betty. We extend our sincerest condolences to Marcel Wechsler, Benny Wechsler and Susan Rhein on the passing of their beloved mother. A true ''Eishes Chayil'', she embodied the qualities of elegance, charm and kindness. Betty and her late husband, Sammy, a Founding Board Member and
 Dr. Dorothy Burr Thompson, a classical archaeologist who was one of the world's leading experts on ancient terra-cotta art, died on May 10 at her home in Hightstown, N.J. She was 101. Dr. Thompson researched and wrote extensively on Hellenistic terra-cotta figurines, small statuette
 BALINT-Dorothy S., 72. Wife of John Balint, daughter of the late Fred and Helen Shutrump, died May 22, 2001 at her residence in Vero Beach, FL. For information Strunk Funeral Home, Vero Beach.       
 de ROCHEMONT-Jane (nee Meyerhoff). Died at home on Tuesday, May 22, 2001 after a long illness. Widow of Richard de Rochemont. Survived by her sister Joan M. Kaplan of Pittsburgh, PA, and three nephews. Funeral services at All Saints Church, 230 East 60th Street, NYC on Thursday, May 24 at 1
 FEIT-Marjorie. Born 1922 in New York City. Beloved wife of Abraham; beloved mother of Larry and Dr. Fred and their wives Elaine and Rosemarie; grandmother of Debbie, David and Matthew; sister of Beatrice and Reva. She was beloved by all.       
 HAYNES-Evelyn G. On May 19, 2001 at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Justin O'Brien Haynes. Loving mother of Sheila Haynes Hale, Amanda Haynes-Dale and stepmother of Justin O'Brien Haynes, Jr. Adoring grandmother of John Justin Hale, Campbell Justin Haynes-Dale and great-grandmother of Beat
 MILLER-Florence (Nee Hecht). 89. Beloved wife of the late Maurice J. Loving mother of Madeline and Edward Redstone, Charles & Lee Miller. Adoring grandmother of Steven (Michele), Lawrence (Jennifer), Howard (Jennifer), Adam and Pamela. Cherished great-grandmother of Amanda, Melissa and John
 PELL-Lucy Blow Jeffcott. Cotty Pell died on May 22 at the age of 82 in her house in Porto Ercole. Diagnosed with terminal cancer 20 years ago, she beat the odds as she so often did. She is survived by two sons, Peter of Glen Cove, NY, and Haven of Washington, D.C., and by five grandchildren
 ROBINSON-Sandra P., 64, Framington, CT., died peacefully, Monday, May 21, 2001. Sandra is survived by her husband, Peter M. Robinson, her three children and four grandchildren. The memorial service will be held on Thursday, May 31, 2001 at 11:00 A.M., at the first Church of Christ, Congrega
 SCHAFFER-Geraldine. I read of a man who stood to speak at the funeral of his wife. With strength and courage he referred to the dates on her tombstone from the beginning to the end. He noted that first came the date of her birth and spoke of the second with tears, but he said that what matt
 CHERTKOV-Lisa, M.D. The Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences at Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center expresses its deep sense of grief over the untimely death of its clinical fellow Dr. Lisa Chertkov. We share with her family the loss of this highly accomplished internist and psy
 PASTER-Esther. On May 9, 2001. Widow of Salem Paster, who died on February 3, mother of the late Joyce Paster Foley, grandmother of Suzanne Foley. Esther was a teacher and guidance counselor in New York City schools for 37 years. Her love of literature, learning and young people lasted thro
 PELL-Lucy Blow Jeffcott. Cotty Pell died on May 22 at the age of 82 in her house in Porto Ercole. Diagnosed with terminal cancer 20 years ago, she beat the odds as she so often did. She is survived by two sons, Peter of Glen Cove, NY, and Haven of Washington, D.C., and by five grandchildren
 Dr. Rosa Susan Penelope Beddington, an experimental biologist whose research produced insights into the way an embryo becomes a fetus in mammals, died on May 18 in Great Tew, Oxfordshire, England. She was 45 and had formerly lived in Edinburgh and London. The cause was cancer, accor
 Evelyn G. Haynes, a preservationist and a former member of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, died last Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 92. A native New Yorker, Evelyn Green Haynes grew up in Brooklyn Heights, attended Smit
 CAPALDI-Marilyn. Died peacefully at home on May 23rd after courageously battling Cancer. She was the Librarian at Booker T. Washington Intermediate School 54 for over 20 years. Her death is mourned by her mother Thelma, her daughters Diana and Elizabeth, her grandchildren Anna, Sophie and D
 EVANS-Ann. We note with great sadness the passing of Ann Evans. She was a devoted Trustee of The Henry Street Settlement for many years. Our deepest sympathy to the family. Board and Staff The Henry Street Settlement       
 HARNICK-Celia. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Harnick. Loving mother of Linda Feeney and the late Joan Tepperman. Dear sister of Natalie Gluckman, cherished grandmother of Ellen and Tracey, great grandmother of Jamie and Ross. Her strength and selflessness have set an example for all of us
 KAHN-Sylvia. On May 24, 2001, Sylvia Kahn joined her beloved husband, Robert L. Kahn. She leaves behind her loving family who will miss her very much. Daughters; Ellen and Victor Goldsmith, Hastings-on-Hudson, Wendy and Dr. David Goldberg, Scarsdale; granddaughters, Emily Weber, Becky and J
 PELL-Lucy Blow Jeffcott. Cotty Pell died on May 22 at the age of 82 in her house in Porto Ercole. Diagnosed with terminal cancer 20 years ago, she beat the odds as she so often did. She is survived by two sons, Peter of Glen Cove, NY, and Haven of Washington, D.C., and by five grandchildren
 ROVINE-Rosanna (nee Lipsitz). On May 24, 2001. Wife of the late George Rovine; mother of Joan R. (Harvey) Levitan and Arthur W. (Phyllis) Rovine; sister of Preston David and Marvin David; grandmother of Daniel Levitan, Jonathan (Stacy) Levitan, Joshua (Lynda) Rovine and Deborah Rovine; grea
 TUCK-Dr. Catherine Hudgins. Dr. Catherine Hudgins Tuck, co-founder and Associate Director of the Naomi Berrie Diabetes Center at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, died Thursday of breast cancer. She was 39. A Magna cum laude graduate of Princeton University, she attended the University of Tex
 MARKS-Ruth. Happy birthday, Mom. Her song has ended but the melody lingers on. Joyce, Jason, Greg, Jordana       
 CHERTKOV-Dr. Lisa. Of New York City, on May 23 at age 38. The winner of the AMES award and the Hoopes Prize, she was a 1985 magna cum laude graduate of Harvard University and a 1994 graduate of Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. She completed a dual residency in Interna
 FELDMAN-Doris, 75. Of Boca Raton, FL., died suddenly Wednesday, May 23. Born August 1, 1925, Rockaway, NY. Doris graduated Columbia University as a dental hygienist. She married Hilliard (Hilly) Feldman of Philadelphia, December 15, 1946. Raising her family in Philadelphia, she returned to 
 GRIFFIN-Carmela Barbuto. 72, of Marina Del Rey, CA, a former resident of Manhattan and Wallingford, CT, died Thursday, May 24, 2001, in the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles. She was the wife of John I. Griffin, a retired dean of Baruch College and Fairfield University; and the mothe
 HANSEN-Harriet C. On May 24, 2001 into her 93rd year. Widow of the late Norbert C. Hansen. Survived by her sister Barbara Cox Emeny, her daughter Leanne Hansen Demarest, her son Stephen C. Hansen and her grandchildren Lee C. Hansen and William and Timothy Taft. Educated at Ethel Walkers and
 McCRUM-Marie I. On May 24, 2001, at age 83. Beloved daughter of the late Dudley and Grace McCrum. Loving sister of Geraldine Salvador and sister-in-law of Angel M. Salvador. Adoring aunt to Janet Ginnity and Philip Salvador. Grand-aunt of Kelly and Caitlyn Ginnity and Lauren and Sarah Salva
 NEWMAN - Katharine Dealy. Founder of the Society for the Study of Multi-Ethnic Literature in the United States (MELUS) and cofounder of the Episcopal Service Alliance of Orange County, California, died peacefully Thursday, at her home in Encinitas, CA. Educator, author, editor and social ac
 PELL-Lucy Blow Jeffcott. Cotty Pell died on May 22 at the age of 82 in her house in Porto Ercole. Diagnosed with terminal cancer 20 years ago, she beat the odds as she so often did. She is survived by two sons, Peter of Glen Cove, NY, and Haven of Washington, D.C., and by five grandchildren
 PRICE-Helen (nee Gusikoff). Born September 9, 1922-Died May 26, 2001. Devoted wife of Erwin. Loving mother to Laurence, Karen and Frederic. Adoring grandmother to Brian. Selfless volunteer and friend. We will miss your strength and courage and cherish your memory always. Service Sunday 11:3
 SCOLEDES-Nancy Neidhardt. Beloved wife of Jim Scoledes and loving mother of Amanda Scoledes, on May 25, 2001. Born in Philadelphia, PA. She was a graduate of Temple University and the City College of New York. Nancy enjoyed a career that spanned 31 years with United Airlines. Her most recen
 CHERTKOV-Lisa, M.D. On May 23, 2001. Memorial service Wednesday, May 30, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to Family Learning Solutions, 2403 Esther Court, Silver Spring, MD 20910. CHERTKOV-L
 FLANCBAUM-Paula. Born Peyrel Hudes Lerman in Bialobrzege, Poland, died May 26, 2001. A survivor of the Auschwitz death camp, she was liberated in Bergen Belsen in April, 1945. In 1949 she emigrated to America. She will be missed sorely by her loving husband Hyman, her devoted daughters and 
 LEFCOURT-Rachel. Died peacefully on May 25, 2001, a day before her 91st birthday. Wife of the late Albert Lefcourt, an optomotrist, who died in 1998. Survived by her stepchildren Robert and Gerald and her nephew, Ian Ehrlich. Grandmother of Jenny, Daniel, Jeffrey and Karen. Graveside servic
 SILBER-Lillian (nee Goldstein). Peacefully, on May 27, 2001. Devoted wife of the late George. Cherished mother of Richard (Barbara) and Marian. Adoring grandmother of Laura, Lynne and Jason. Loving aunt of Reva (Gil) Sanders, Joan, Kaye and Bettina (Peter) Sharfman and her greatnieces and n
 TUCK-Catherine. The Clinical Faculty of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University mourns the untimely passing of Dr. Catherine Tuck. Dr. Tuck's career exemplified commitment to excellence in clinical medicine. Her particular love of teaching both of medical students, hou
 BENNETT-RONES-Barbara. The Board of Directors of the Mamaroneck-Larchmont Student Aid Fund is deeply saddened by the loss of our fellow Board member. Barbara's positive impact on our community will endure, as will our fond memory of her. We offer our deep sympathy to Gary, Jody, and Stacy. 
 BIALEK-Laura B. On May 27, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Edward, Mitchell & mother-in-law of Laura Stewart. Adoring grandmother of Anna. Dear sister of Helen Brown and Belle Grossman and the late Leonard Brown & Rose Weinstein. Retired from her own accounting firm a
 BIZEK-Geraldine Claire. At the age of 63, of Bay Shore, N.Y. Died May 27, 2001, at her home surrounded by her loving family, after a long battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Joseph F. Bizek. Loving mother of Marianne Bizek (Mark Holmes) of Arlington, VA., Joanne Platt (David) of Minneapolis
 BLATT-Eleanor J. On May 27, 2001. Beloved wife of David. Devoted mother of Melissa Closter and Andrew. Loving mother-inlaw of Steven Closter. Adoring grandmother of Sammy & Sophia. Caring daughter of Ann (Jerri) and William Iser. Cherished sister of Lynne Iser and Stephen Iser. She will be 
 CHERTKOV-Lisa, M.D. On May 23, 2001. Memorial service Wednesday, May 30, 12:45 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to Family Learning Solutions, 2403 Esther Court, Silver Spring, MD 20910.       
 COHEN-Anne. On May 28, 2001. Beloved mother of Francine Kaplan and her husband Bernard. Cherished grandmother of Andrew and Francine and Joan and William. Great grandmother of Tilden. Concerned and loving aunt. Services Wednesday 11:45AM at the ''Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenu
 HANSEN-Harriet C. On May 24, 2001 into her 93rd year. Widow of the late Norbert C. Hansen. Survived by her sister Barbara Cox Emeny, her daughter Leanne Hansen Demarest, her son Stephen C. Hansen and her grandchildren Lee C. Hansen and William and Timothy Taft. Educated at Ethel Walkers and
 KORTICK-David N. Died May 25, 2001 after a brief illness. Cherished husband and best friend of Ruth (nee Mensch). Devoted and loving father of Nancy and her husband Michael. Much loved and treasured Pop-Pop of Brian. ''Good night sweet prince.'' Services 11AM today at Cedar Park Cemetery Ma
 McCRUM-Marie I. On May 24, 2001, at age 83. Beloved daughter of the late Dudley and Grace McCrum. Loving sister of Geraldine Salvador and sister-in-law of Angel M. Salvador. Adoring aunt to Janet Ginnity and Philip Salvador. Grand-aunt of Kelly and Caitlyn Ginnity and Lauren and Sarah Salva
 MOSKOVITZ KAPLAN-Miriam Schumer. Died on Shavuot. Beloved mother of Stephen and Ira. Loving grandmother of Joshua and Daniel. Devoted and generous aunt. Died peacefully at her home after a prolonged illness. A business woman of great dignity whose courage, compassion and style inspired all 
 RANDAL-Judith S. Died peacefully on May 27, 2001 at the age of 95. Survived by her daughter Judith Hines of Lovettsville, VA. Her son, Jonathan Randal of Paris, France and her brother, Richard Stern of Kansas City, MO. Memorial service at a later date.       
 RUDAVSKY-Sonya L. On May 26, 2001. Cherished mother of Dr. Vivian Halfin and her husband Dr. David Harnett. Beloved grandmother of Hillary and Zachary Harnett. Loving sister of Sidney Leeds. Devoted wife of the late Herman Halfin, Pharmacist and Hebrew teacher, and the late Professor David 
 SILBER-Lillian (nee Goldstein). Peacefully, on May 27, 2001. Devoted wife of the late George. Cherished mother of Richard (Barbara) and Marian. Adoring grandmother of Laura, Lynne and Jason. Loving aunt of Reva (Gil) Sanders, Joan, Kaye and Bettina (Peter) Sharfman and her greatnieces and n
 SMITH-Suzanne Y. Died peacefully on Sunday, May 27th after a courageous battle with cancer. Wife of Baldwin Smith, Jr., mother of Alison, Baldwin, Jonathan, and Lindsay. Grandmother to Anna and Avery Shoemaker & motherin-law to John Shoemaker and Allison Pell Smith. Her enthusiasm for life,
 TUCK-Catherine. The Division of Preventive Medicine and Nutrition, and the Irving Center for Clinical Research of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University mourn the loss of our beloved colleague and friend, Catherine. Throughout her life and particularly during her illn
 ARDAI-Vera. On May 28th, 2001. Beloved wife of Tibor, devoted mother of Michael and Charles, cherished grandmother of Alyssa, and loving daughter of Martha Gordon. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Wendesday, May 30, 2001, 9:30 am at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Ma
 BELSKY-Muriel B., Ph.D. Beloved mother of Jana, David and Eric died peacefully on May 28, 2001 surrounded by her loving family. Sister of David, grandmother of Hallie, mother-in-law of Tom and Cynthia, and wife of David Lecker. Muriel was a respected psychotherapist and professor of psychol
 BIRNBAUM-Flora. Stricken with polio before her 26th birthday, she lived a full life, for 47 years, in a wheelchair with never-ending courage and grace. She is mourned by her husband Marvin, her daughters Sandra and Jacqueline Birnbaum and her loving grandchildren: Hilary Penney, Darren Sull
 DEREZEAS-Georgia. May 29, 2001, succumbed after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved sister of Antonia. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Wednesday May 30 and Thursday, May 31, 2-5 & 79PM. For funer
 HUBBELL-Ruth. Died peacefully after a brief illness on May 25. She was the beloved wife of the late Jack Hubbell; mother of John Hubbell, Jean Asher, Susan Jaeckel and Pat Becker; grandmother of five and great grandmother of three. She was an extraordinary woman who will be missed by all wh
 NATHAN-Rae Shupack. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Rae Shupack Nathan, and extend sincere condolences to her family. Paul N. Gardner, President       
 NEIDHARDT - SCOLEDES - Nancy. The Breast Cancer Research Foundation mourns the loss of a remarkable woman whose dedication and courage were an inspiration to us all. She was committed to the importance of funding clinical and genetic breast cancer research. We will miss her friendship and e
 PRICE-Helen. SHARE mourns the loss of Helen Price, a breast cancer advocate and supporter of SHARE's services to women with breast or ovarian cancer. We will miss our dear friend. Our thoughts are with her family at this time.       
 RANDAL-Judith S. Died peacefully on May 27, 2001 at the age of 95. Survived by her daughter Judith Hines of Lovettsville, VA. Her son, Jonathan Randal of Paris, France and her brother, Richard Stern of Kansas City, MO. Memorial service at a later date.       
 SAGE-Vivian (nee Zak). On May 26, 2001 at age 81. Loving mother of Melissa Cowan Sage & Jennifer Sage. Adoring grandmother of Kiriana, Cadran, Corydon, Henry, Olivia, & Margaret. Devoted sister of Shirley Hayes and dear aunt of Dennis, Timothy, Christopher and Kerry Hayes. Graveside service
 SMITH-Suzanne Y. Died peacefully on Sunday, May 27th after a courageous battle with cancer. Wife of Baldwin Smith, Jr., mother of Alison, Baldwin, Jonathan, and Lindsay. Grandmother to Anna and Avery Shoemaker & motherin-law to John Shoemaker and Allison Pell Smith. Her enthusiasm for life,
 TUCK-Catherine Hudgins, M.D. The Department of Medicine mourns the untimely death last Thursday of Dr. Catherine Hudgins Tuck, Irving Assistant Professor of Medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University and Assistant Attending Physician at New YorkPresbyterian Ho
 WASSERMAN-Jessica. 8 years old. Treasured, beloved granddaughter of our sister-in-law and brother Connie and Allen J. Goldstein. Oh! The lessons we all learned from your brief, sweet life. We will remember you: Always. Aunt Caroline, Uncle Ralph, Jane, Robert, Barbara, Michael and David    
 WEINBERG-Judith Skluth. The Alumni Association of Hunter College mourns the passing of a former Alumni president. Judith was also a member of the Hunter Hall of Fame and a recipient of the Special Award for Alumni service. Her years of devotion to the college were special and we extend our 
 Esther Wanner Hymer, a pioneer of the international women's movement who was long active at the United Nations, died on April 4 at her home in Shrewsbury, N.J. She was 102. In a letter to her on her 100th birthday, Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, said: ''For half a
 ARDAI-Vera. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Vera Ardai. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President       
 BRAGGER-Lydia. Died peacefully in her residence in New York on May 23rd. She was 97. Talk show host and advocate for the aging, she founded The New York City Gray Panthers. Memorial service at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 3 P.M. June 8th. Memorial donations to Gray Panthers.       
 BURROS-Janet. Our deepest sympathy goes out to the entire family of Janet Burros. She was a very special lady and we are lucky to have had the privilege of sharing her kindness. We will miss you. Fredda, Drew and David Goldberg       
 DEREZEAS-Georgia. May 29, 2001, succumbed after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved sister of Antonia. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Wednesday May 30 and Thursday, May 31, 2-5 & 79PM. For funer
 ESTILL-Barbara Tweed. Loving mother of Barbette Hunt and sonin-law Peter H. Hunt. Grandmother of Max, Daisy and Amy Hunt. Widow of Harrison Tweed and Holland Estill. Graduate of Smith College, Class of 1930, President Emeritus of the Leopold Schepp Foundation, past-President of the Big Sist
 GOLDEN-Selma of Ridgewood, NJ, on May 29. Beloved wife of Bernard; survived by her son Brian, daughter Stacy, sister Rita Blaustein and granddaughter Alanna. Services are today, 10:30 am at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, 150 Rt.4 East, Paramus.       
 GREENBERG-Irving. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member, Harriet Ostrow, and family on the loss of her beloved father. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Joel Felderman, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi       
 GRUEN-Edith C. Passed away at age 73 on May 28, 2001 in NYC after many years of enduring Kidney Disease. Survived by her brother Peter also of NYC. Donations in her memory may be made to Selfhelp Community Services, Inc. or The Metropolitan Museum of Art.       
 KALTBAUM - Sadie Rothschild. Beloved wife of the late Irving Rothschild and Max Kaltbaum. Loving mother of Jay and Sandra Rothschild. Grandmother of Ilissa and Mark, Amy and Eric, and Rebecca and Jason. Cherished greatgrandmother of Katie, Vidal, William, Yonah, Sage and Eve. Bookkeeper for
 LESSER-Anna Charlotte (Lotte). Nee Hecht, widow of the late Dr. Benno H. Lesser, died peacefully in her 95th year. Well loved by her daughters, Ruth Heston and Dorit Vanderwilden, 6 grandchildren and 9 great grandchildren. We will miss her wise and gentle spirit.       
 MEISNER-Roslyn. Died May 29, peacefully in her sleep after a long illness. Beloved wife of Murray. Loving mother of Ivan and Roz Meisner and Howard and Karen Meisner-Weiss. Adored grandmother of Brian, Jill, Bara, Sabrina and Adam. Respected and admired for her warmth and wisdom by her legi
 RANDAL-Judith S. Died peacefully on May 27, 2001 at the age of 95. Survived by her daughter Judith Hines of Lovettsville, VA. Her son, Jonathan Randal of Paris, France and her brother, Richard Stern of Kansas City, MO. Memorial service at a later date. RANDAL-Judith Stern. The Board
 SAGE-Vivian (nee Zak). On May 26, 2001 at age 81. Loving mother of Melissa Cowan Sage & Jennifer Sage. Adoring grandmother of Kiriana, Cadran, Corydon, Henry, Olivia, & Margaret. Devoted sister of Shirley Hayes and dear aunt of Dennis, Timothy, Christopher and Kerry Hayes. Graveside service
