 HANNUM - Beverly. Died April 23, at age 70. Her professional specialty was eduational kinesiology. She will be greatly missed by her many friends and by former collagues and students at Star Learning Center. She is survived by sisters, Sharon Seager and Suzanne Burke, nephews Kendal and Bre
 LONGMAN--Janice T. Mother of Michael, William and Matthew, mother-in-law of Lisa, grandmother (''Gigi'') of Nicklaus and Julie, former wife of Robert Longman, beloved friend of Karlene, Nicolle and the professionals at the Infusion Center at New England Medical Center, passed away on April 
 SHAPIRO--Florence Ida (nee Snyder), of New York City, died Saturday, April 29, 2006, after a long, rich, and interesting life. Wife for 46 years of her beloved Judah J. Shapiro, eminent Jewish cultural and educational leader, who predeceased her (1980); adored mother of Jeremy and Daniel, s
 WHITE--Edith Seema. Died April 29, 2006, in Brooklyn, NY. She had just recently celebrated her 90th birthday. She was the loving mother of Jonathan and Edwina White, loving sister of Gertrude Spector, loving aunt of Lori Spector and Phoebe Sue Collina, loving grandmother of Jennifer and Sar
 deMURIAS--Ann-Carlin (nee Borden) in her 85th year on April 9th, 2006 at her home in Babylon, NY of pancreatic cancer. Beloved wife of the late Ramon deMurias. Carlin was a graduate of Madeira School class of 1938 and Smith College class of 1942. She is survived by her family, Elena of Manh
 MAYERSON--Florence. Of Dayton, OH, died April 28, 2006, at 85, after a valiant six year battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Manuel D. Mayerson, she is also survived by children Harvey Chaim Mayerson and Lynn Mayerson Berger of Israel and Sandra Mayerson of New York, as well as six grandchil
 Jay Presson Allen, who as an adapter of novels for plays and movies developed some of the most memorable roles for women in the late 1960's and 1970's, died yesterday morning at her home in Manhattan. She was 84. The cause was a stroke, said her daughter, Brooke Allen. Ms. A
 CANNON--Mary Elizabeth, 68, formerly of Parlin, NJ and NYC. Died in Kingston, NY, Saturday, April 29, 2006. Her loved and loving family and friends will miss her humor, grace and beauty.       
 GARFUNKEL--Helene (nee Loebenstein). Died April 29, 2006 at 79 after fighting several health problems. She lived life on her own terms and was the beloved wife of the late Benjamin Garfunkel and mother of Julie Spencer, Marjorie Derven and Michael Garfunkel, and grandmother to Zack, Sam, Re
 LEBOWITZ--Evelyn. April 27, 2006; proprietor of the Pine View Hotel, Fallsburg, N.Y. Her warmth and hospitality impacted thousands of lives. Generations of families experienced unforgettable summers and holidays in a traditional Jewish atmosphere. She is mourned by her husband and lifelong 
 MARGOLIS - Grace. Died May 1. Adored wife of the late Robert Margolis. Treasured mother of Stefan Margolis, Karen Kleinberg and Randie Senser. Her loving family will miss her forever.       
 POTH--Eleanor S. On April 16, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Harry A. Poth Jr. Devoted mother of Stephen Sheils, Christopher (Charity) and Jeremy. Cherished grandmother of Stephanie, Charlotte and Harry, and great-grandmother of Annabel and Catherine. Funeral service and interment is privat
 ZABRISKIE--Hortense. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Hortense Shernoff Zabriskie, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. June Walker, National President       
 Henriette D. Avram, a systems analyst who four decades ago transformed millions of dog-eared catalog cards in the Library of Congress into a searchable electronic database, and in the process helped transform the gentle art of librarianship into the sleek new field of information science, d
 CANNON--Mary Elizabeth, 68, formerly of Parlin, NJ and NYC. Died in Kingston, NY, Saturday, April 29, 2006. Her loved and loving family and friends will miss her humor, grace and beauty.       
 RAPEE--Joellen Hall. Distinguished sculptor and painter, died April 27 of heart failure after a brief stay at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84. During her long career under her maiden name Joellen Hall, her work was exhibited at numerous museums and galleries and was collecte
 SATTLER--Irene A. (nee Peters). On April 30, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Robert. Loving mother of Mary, Robert, Peggy and John. Cherished grandmother of 12. Also survived by her brother Frank Peters. Funeral, Friday, 8:30 A.M. from the Marine Park Funeral Home, 3024 Quentin Road, Brookly
 SCHWARTZ--F rances M., May 16, 1921 May 2,2006. Mother of Carl Ian Schwart z(Allen B. Gold), grandmoth er to Melanie Gold, D.O .(James Hovan), Jacqueline Gold(Brian Shapiro), Cara Gold, great-grandmother to Devon Shapiro. At her wishes, there will be no funer al services, but donation may b
 BOASI--Rita M. Sister of Claire. Daughter of the late John and Jennie. Sister of the late Veronica and Louis. She was strong-minded, independent, and a dedicated churchgoer. Rita loved to cook & follow fashion. Mass and burial were held May 4.       
 FELDMAN -- Rose Mildred (nee Klein), amazing 105, slipped away, peacefully, on May 2, 2006 at King Street Nursing Home, Rye Brook, NY, where her last years were enhanced by the staff's loving care. Rose was beautiful, outspoken, entertaining, and flirtatious to the end. Born July 1, 1900 in
 HANJA--Mary Jane (nee Mazuchowski) on April 30, 2006. Inspired mother of Rudi and Siri and beloved partner and wife of Siim for 30 years. She received her MFA from the Cranbrook Academy of Art. Artist, teacher, Soho pioneer, she dedicated 25 years to mentoring NYC students and was the first
 JEMMOTT--Marion E. The trustees of the Taraknath Das Foundation remember with gratitude the devoted service to the foundation over more than 4 decades of Marion Jemmott who died at 80 on April 30th. She gave her energy and acute intelligence to helping South Asian Students, to aiding women 
 LUKS RAFFES--Mollie. (nee Kessler) died May 2 at 92 in Riverdale, NY following a short illness. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Luks and Benjamin Raffes, cherished mother of Cynthia Pommiss, Ellen Eule and sons-in-law Stephen and Norman; grandmother to loving grandchildren Jennifer Pommiss
 LYNN--Ruth. Previously of Lido Beach, Long Island. Passed away on Tuesday May 2 in Palm Beach, Flori da, surrounded by her griev ing family who arrives from near and far. A strong ma triarch and an out spoken loy al friend. She was truly one of a kind. Married to her Harold for 66 years. Sh
 MELNICK--Gisele Melman. Died suddenly on May 2, 2006 age 70. Her love for life, family, friends and colleagues will stay forever with those who knew her. The world is a diminished place without her and we will hold her forever in our lives. Michael, Amy, Alyssa and Adam Melnick. Funeral 11:
 SHIFF--Ruth V. On May 2, 2006. Loving mother of Norma (Fred) Mintz and Marjorie (Jerry) Feinstein and beloved wife of the late Harry. Dear grandmother & great grandmother; caring sister of Helen. She will always remain in our hearts.       
 SWIRE--Evelyn Canter. Age 92, at her residence in NYC on May 2, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Leo J. Swire. Loving mother of Susan Teicholz, Nancy Arons and Janet Hillel. She also leaves eight grandchildren and nine greatgrandchildren. Services and interment will be held in Albany, NY. Con
 ARMSTRONG--Helen. Violinist, died on April 28, 2006 in Greenwich, CT. She was 63. Helen founded Armstrong Chamber Concerts and, encouraged by Avery Fisher and Skitch Henderson, performed the finest chamber music in several communities for 22 years. She also conducted a Students' Music Enric
 CORWIN--June Helen, Ph.D. Born June 3, 1949. Died May 4, 2006. Psychopharmacologist. Beloved daughter of Sylvia and Leonard, adored sister of Lee, was the light of the lives of her family, friends and all who knew her. Funeral Friday, May 5, 12 noon, at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amster
 FELDMAN -- Rose Mildred (nee Klein), amazing 105, slipped away, peacefully, on May 2, 2006 at King Street Nursing Home, Rye Brook, NY, where her last years were enhanced by the staff's loving care. Rose was beautiful, outspoken, entertaining, and flirtatious to the end. Born July 1, 1900 in
 JEMMOTT--Marion E.The trustees of the Taraknath Das Foundation remember with gratitude the devoted service to the foundation over more than 4 decades of Marion Jemmott who died at 80 on April 30th. She gave her energy and acute intelligence to helping South Asian Students, to aiding women i
 MORROW--Ethel. The Orthodox Union mourns the passing of Ethel Morrow, a longtime administrative assistant in the Kashrut Department. Her wisdom, devotion and loyalty were an inspiration to us all. Stephen J. Savitsky, Pres. Rabbi Tzvi Hersh Weinreb, Exec VP Rabbi Menachem Genack, CEO, OU, K
 MURPHY--Helen Marie (Fagan), 70 of Garden City, LI died peacefully on May 4th. Born in Brooklyn on Oct 15, 1935, Helen Marie graduated from Ladycliff College and received her Masters in Education from St. John's University and taught 2nd grade in Babylon. Married on Nov 24, 1962 to James F 
 PUNER--Janice (Nath). Died May 3, 2006 at age 84. The daughter of Anna Siegel Puner and Meyer Puner, she was born in New York City. She graduated from Hunter College in 1941 and went to work for Abraham & Straus where she became stationary buyer for all A & S stores. After retirement, she d
 BULOFF--Luba Kadison. On May 4th, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Buloff and adored mother of Barbara. For 99 years she graced the world with her extraordinary wisdom, talents and fierce passion for living. Services Sunday, May 7, 2:30 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterd
 MURPHY--Helen Marie. A women of deep faith, grace and devotion to her family. Marymount School of New York mourns the passing of Helen Marie Murphy, beloved sister of Kathleen Fagan, RSHM, Headmistress of Marymount International School in London and Headmistress Emerita of Marymount School 
 PUNER--Janice (Nath). Died May 3, 2006 at age 84. The daughter of Anna Siegel Puner and Meyer Puner, she was born in New York City. She graduated from Hunter College in 1941 and went to work for Abraham & Straus where she became stationery buyer for all A & S stores. After retirement, she d
 ASTROW--Ruth. Of Wood mere, NY. Died peacefully at home May 4th 2006. Loving and devoted mother of Gary, Alan, and Felice. Beloved wife to the late Martin Astrow. Loving Grand mother to Melissa, Raphael, Aliza, and Jason. Loving Aunt of Susan Mollin. Caring sister to the late Paula Saginar.
 BLOOM--Ruth. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation mourn the loss of our director Ruth Bloom, who for twenty-two years devoted considerable energy and intelligence to carrying out HHC's mission to provide high quality health care to all New Y
 BOWDEN--Mary Virginia. Died April 17 at the Sequoias in San Francisco. Born in Pittsburgh in 1914, she was an economist and Asst. VP at New York Life and first woman president of the Chatham College Board of Trustees. She held a B.A. and Honorary L.L.D. from Chatham, and M.A. from Penn Stat
 EVARTS--Katharine Avery of Kent, CT died peacefully on April 19, 2006, at the age of 107. She was born in Westbury, Long Island on October 29, 1898. As a child, Mrs. Evarts lived with her family at ''Wheatly.'' Summers were spent in Newport, where she became an accomplished sailor, inspired
 HANJA--Mary Jane (nee Mazuchowski) on April 30, 2006. Inspired mother of Rudi and Siri and beloved partner and wife of Siim for 30 years. She received her MFA from the Cranbrook Academy of Art. Artist, teacher, Soho pioneer, she dedicated 25 years to mentoring NYC students and was the first
 HICKS -- Catherine Burke. Born January 22, 1915 in Madison, Wisconsin and passed away peacefully at St. John's Health Center on May 3, 2006 in Santa Monica, California. Catherine was preceded in death by her husband Walter R. Hicks in 1986. She is survived by her daughter Catherine Hicks Ya
 LANE--Maria Lourdes Arguello Solorzano. In Managua. Daughter of Victorino Arguello Manning and Rosa Solorzano Montealegre. Also predeceased by her daughter Victoria Margarita Lane, by her sisters Leonor and Rosita and brothers Fernando and Victorino. She is survived by her son Michael Lane 
 PUNER--Janice. With great sorrow we face the loss of our dear cousin, Janice Puner Nath. She was an integral force for the good in our respective families. We and our children and grandchildren will miss her deeply. Naomi Cummins, Shirley Kalb Kleppel and Sherley Puner Plasse $(6$)PUNER--Ja
 SCHECHTER--Betty. On May 4, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Devoted mother of Carol Buchalter and Susan Gilbert. Adored grandmother of Vida Harband, Neal Buchalter, Rona Buchalter Popkin, Jennifer Gilbert Egan and Simone Gilbert Clark. Dear great grandmother of seven. Service Sunda
 ZABLOW--Rhoda. Formerly of Freeport, NY, passed away at 95, at her home in Williamstown, MA on April 11, 2006. Widow of Nathan P. Zablow, a prominent attorney and former Administrator of the Assigned Counsel Defender Plan for the Nassau County Bar Association. Loved by her children Suellen 
 ANDRICH--Marlene. Artist, designer of corporate environments. She touched with grace, beauty and delight the lives of all those who met her.       
 BAMBERGER -- Marjorie Grace Rothenberg (nee Zunser), 87, died May 4, 2006. She was born February 11, 1919 in Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late Edmund M. Bamberger, devoted mother of John Z. Rothenberg and Dr. Peter M. Rothenberg. Loving mother-in-law of Dr. Deborah Brownstone Rothenber
 THERING, S. Rose -The Board of Trustees of the Sister Rose Thering Endowment at Seton Hall University, South Orange, mourns the passing of our beloved friend, mentor and honoree, Sister Rose, on May 6, 2006. Her courage, perseverance and direction will be deeply missed by all whose lives sh
 Sister Rose Thering, a Roman Catholic nun and a former professor at Seton Hall University who battled anti-Semitism within her church and contributed to a historic Vatican declaration that Jews were not collectively responsible for the death of Jesus, died on Saturday at a convent in Racine
 Luba Kadison Buloff, who went from playing children's roles to reigning as a leading lady in the Yiddish theater, helping bring its flavorful blend of wrenching drama and comedic shrug from Europe to the Lower East Side in the 1920's, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 99.  
 HEYMANN--Babette. It is with sincere sorrow that we record the death of our esteemed member. Devoted to Temple Shaaray Tefila for more than a generation, she will be sorely missed. We express our heartfelt condolences to her family. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, Pres.       
 LEVINE--Beatrice. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Beatrice Levine, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her sister Rose, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Marc Goldberg, President       
 THERING--Sister Rose. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Sister Rose Thering, our dear friend and colleague in promoting Christian - Jewish relations. She understood early in life that anti - Semitism was wrong and devoted herself to working against it. For her seminal role 
 WOHLSTETTER -- Rose Teed. On May 6, 2006, of natural causes, at 84. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Loving mother of Philip of Seattle, Washington, John of Washington, DC and Rand of Los Angeles, CA. Cherished grandmother of Isabel and Julia of Seattle, Washington. Born in Chicago May 23,
 FELDSTEIN -- Gladys (nee Shaw). Beloved wife of the late Seymour. Devoted mother of Neil (Sandra) and Jan (Kevin Lipson). Cherished grandmother of Jamie (Joe Turquie), Jordana, Benjamin and Samuel, and great grandmother of Andrew and Charlotte. Loving sister of Jean and sister-in-law of Flo
 KNOBLER--Selma (Nee Frankel). Died May 9 at the age of 84 after a long struggle with Alzheimer's. A lifetime educator, she taught nursery school at Downtown Commu nity School and received a Master's Degree from the Bank Street College of Edu cation, where she later joined the faculty and ta
 MARCUS--Maxine Theodora Finke. Age 95, died May 7, 2006. Beloved wife of 65 years to Alfred. Devoted daughter of the late Joseph and Anna Finke. Mother of Robert E. Beloved sister of the late Herbert and Richard Finke. Will be missed by her many nephews, nieces, sisters-in-law and cousins. 
 SELIGMAN - Frances, 80. May 1 following a brief illness in NYC. Much beloved wife of Melvin Seligman; mother of Karen Sherman and Roberta Seligman; grandmother of Jed & Sara. She had loving friends from coast to coast and her soaring spirit will be greatly missed by all who loved her. Funer
 SPENCER--Patricia. Passed away May 9 after a lengthy battle with leukemia. She was a devoted mother to Lisa, Lynn and John, and loving grandmother to Katie, Tori, Elizabeth, Ryan and Conner. She is also survived by her sister Anita Kraus and her mother Zelda Strauss.       
 TAFT--Mary Jane, 76. Died peacefully in her sleep early in the morning on May 6 at her home in Waleska, Georgia, after a courageous battle with emphysema and cancer. An artist and animal lover, she was the widow of Horace Taft, a physics professor at and former Dean of Yale University, who 
 THERING--Rose The Board of Directors of the America-Israel Friendship League mourns the passing of our dear friend and fellow board member, Sister Rose Thering. She was a true friend of Israel, one of the first non-Jewish leaders of the League and a great inspiration to all of us. We convey
 WOHLSTETTER--Rose Teed The members, officers and trustees of the Billy Rose Foundation, Inc. note with sorrow the death of Rose, mother of our fellow trustee and Director, John Wohlstet ter, and widow of one of the founding members, Charles. Our condolences to her sons and other family memb
 Barbara Schwartz, an artist whose painted plaster reliefs were tangentially associated with the Pattern and Decoration movement in New York in the late 1970's, died on Monday in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 58. The cause was leukemia that developed from chemotherapy for ovari
 BOTUCK--Vivian. Of Huntington Station, LI, died Friday, May 5, after a brief illness. She was born March 31, 1905 in New York City, the daughter of Sophia Behrman and Max Raymond. Just a month ago she had celebrated her 101th Birthday. Her husband Eli Botuck predeceased her, as did her pare
 BULOFF -- Luba Kadison. Earth has lost a most remarkable human being; Yiddish actress, artist, scholar, philosopher, mentor, counselor, generous friend to those privileged to have known her. Juliana C. Nash       
 GOLDBECK--Ilse (Weinberger). Of Forest Hills, NY on May 9, 2006 in her 91st year. Much beloved wife of the late Kurt. Mother of Helen (Derek), David (Nikki) and Sandy (Stuart). Grandmother of Debbie, Karen, Laura, Jenna and Meredith. Great grandmother of seven. Independent to the end, she w
 KAPLOWITZ--Celia. On May 10, 2006. Survived by her sister Anne Gelfman, her niece, nephews, grand-nieces and grand - nephews. Services Thursday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 NADOLNEY - Bernice, 80. Died at her home in Greenwich Village on May 6. A graduate of NYU, she taught public school in the Bronx and English in Japan (1955-1957) where she developed an enduring love of Japanese culture. A MENSA member, great wit and devotee of the the arts, she leaves a nie
 PERUSSIA--Bice, MD, world renowned cancer researcher of Philadelphia, PA, Leader of the Immunology Program and Director of the Cancer Immunology Training Program at the Kimmel Cancer Center at Thomas Jefferson University, unexpectedly died on April 26, 2006 of breast cancer. A paradigm for 
 SMITH--Marilyn Schulhof, 75. Of New York City, died on May 9 in New Haven, CT. She was the beloved wife of 55 years of Professor John E. Smith of Yale University, and the devoted, loving mother of Diana E. Smith and Robin Smith Swanberg. Educated at Westover School ('46) in Middlebury, CT, 
 WEIDEN--Vivian M. (nee Gottesman). Beloved wife of the late Norman Weiden, adoring and adored mother of Barbara Schwartz Fischler and husband Burt Fischler, and Dr. Jacqueline Weiden and husband Marc Maltz, passed away at her home in Palm Beach, Florida on May 9, 2006. She is also survived 
 Ruth Gay, a writer known for her nonfiction books documenting Jewish life in the Old World and the New, died on Tuesday in the Bronx. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan. She had been suffering from leukemia, and died at Calvary Hospital, her family said. Ms. Gay's books inclu
 KASELL--Sarah (Golden). Died May 10 in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Mother of Joseph (Paula) and Walter (Eva), grandmother of David, Lauren, Jacob, Miriam and Leah. Great grandmother of Alec, Sammy and Julia.       
 KNOBLER -- Selma (nee Frankel). Died May 9 at the age of 84 after a long struggle with Alzheimer's. A lifetime educator, she taught nursery school at Downtown Community School and received a Master's Degree from the Bank Street College of Education, where she later joined the faculty and ta
 SOLOMON--Wilma Shore, 92. Writer, painter, wit and friend; wife of the late Lou Solomon; mother of Hilary Bendich, Berkeley, CA. and Dinah Stevenson, Hoboken, N.J; grandmother of Nora, Jonathan and Bridget; great grandmother of five; greatgreat-grandmother of one. We welcome donations in he
 WEIDEN--Vivian M. (nee Gottesman). Beloved wife of the late Norman Weiden, adoring and adored mother of Barbara Schwartz Fischler and husband Burt Fischler, and Dr. Jacqueline Weiden and husband Marc Maltz, passed away at her home in Palm Beach, Florida on May 9, 2006. She is also survived 
 WEISS--Jean (nee Chankin). On May 10, 2006. The Camp Rondack family mourns the loss of their beloved friend. She inspired, she was loved, she will be missed.       
 HYNES--Adele L. On May 12, 2006, 92 years of age. Youngest child of the late James B. Landay and Lillian Slone Landay. Beloved by her husbands, Stuart L. Haupt and William J. Hynes. Dear mother of Ira Haupt II and Florence Haupt Teiger. Lovingly remembered by nine grandchildren and 22 great
 MERRIGAN--Marion Ann, 87. Died May 10. She worked for the Catholic Near East Welfare Association of the Archdiocese of NY for 40 years. Survived by four nephews and one niece. Funeral Monday, from the WilliamsPedersen Funeral Home (www.uptonfunerals.com), 45 Main St, Upton, with mass at 10 
 SIMPSON--Anne. 56, died May 9 at home in Atlanta, GA. Beloved mother of Jason Everett. Daughter of Ethel and Murray. Sister of David, Mindy and Jonathan. She will be greatly missed.       
 WEISS--Jean (nee Chankin). On May 10, 2006. The Camp Rondack family mourns the loss of their beloved friend. She inspired, she was loved, she will be missed.       
 BLUMENTHAL--Muriel Saltonstall Grymes. Died May 10, 2006, at her home in Easton, MD. She is survived by her sister Susan Mackie, two stepsons, Henry Blumenthal and Andrew Blumenthal, nine nieces and nephews, and numerous grandnieces and grandnephews. She is the daughter of Muriel Saltonstal
 CAPASSO - Josephine. On May 12th, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Michael Capasso. Loving mother of Serafina, Rosalie and the late Andy. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Mikie, Andrea and Kirstin. Devoted sister of George Infante. Loving aunt to numerous nieces and nephews. She will be deep
 DOYEL--Rowena Diggs. On May 5, at 84 in New York City. Dedicated nurse and civic activist. As owner of the oldest dwelling in Chelsea's Historic District, she was passionate and outspoken about the neighborhood and was President of the Council of Chelsea Block Associations. Rowena is surviv
 GODSICK--Jane. Friends for 54 years. Exasperating, but lovable. ''Oner'', I'll miss her. Suzy, Shelly and Jane Pinkus       
 HYNES--Adele L. On May 12, 2006, 92 years of age. Youngest child of the late James B. Landay and Lillian Slone Landay. Beloved by her husbands, Stuart L. Haupt and William J. Hynes. Dear mother of Ira Haupt II and Florence Haupt Teiger. Lovingly remembered by nine grandchildren and 22 great
 KNOBLER -- Selma (nee Frankel). Died May 9 at the age of 84 after a long struggle with Alzheimer's. A lifetime educator, she taught nursery school at Downtown Community School and received a Master's Degree from the Bank Street College of Education, where she later joined the faculty and ta
 KUSHNER--Celia. 79, passed away on May 10, 2006, in her home after a long valiant struggle with cancer. Beloved wife of Milton for 60 years. Loving mother of Claudia Wolloch and Ron Kushner. Adored grandmother of Adam, Benjamin and Zachary. Cherished sister of Harold Kfare. Mother - in - la
 MARUSI--Ruth T. Died April 16, 2006. Of Lake Wales, Florida, she was almost 91 years old. Born in Cresskill, N.J. she spent much of her childhood in North Carolina. Attended the University of North Carolina. She married Augustine R. Marusi, who died in 2004. She is survived by her children,
 MONTANEZ--Esther. Tireless advocate for the rights of people with serious and persistent mental illness and a mentor and friend to many, passed away Friday, May 5, 2006 at the age of 70. Esther was born in 1936 on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. As a teenager, she became an active volunte
 O'BRIEN--Sylvia. Actress/ Singer starred on Broadway in ''DA'' appeared in numerous other productions, Television and Films. She leaves her daughter, Charmian and husband, Producer Richard Seader.       
 SIMPSON--Anne. 56, died May 9 at home in Atlanta, GA. Beloved mother of Jason Everett. Daughter of Ethel and Murray. Sister of David, Mindy and Jonathan. She will be greatly missed.       
 WEISS--Jean (nee Chankin). On May 10, 2006. The Camp Rondack family mourns the loss of their beloved friend. She inspired, she was loved, she will be missed.       
 CANE--Anne. On May 12, 2006, age 86. While her passing is mourned by her daugther Jane, son Robert and his wife Alison, her sister and brother-in-law Shirley and Jon Brodsky, her nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews of the Brodsky and Amr families, the Nowak family, and her many fr
 CAPASSO - Josephine. On May 12th, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Michael Capasso. Loving mother of Serafina, Rosalie and the late Andy. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Mikie, Andrea and Kirstin. Devoted sister of George Infante. Loving aunt to numerous nieces and nephews. She will be deep
 DRUMMER--Pamela Ruth, loving daughter, sister and aunt, died on May 7th of injuries suffered at her home in Redwood City, CA. She was 55. Pam was the beloved daughter of Mickey and Juanita Drummer, the much loved sister of Carol Sattler and Ken Drummer, and sister-in-law to Ted Sattler and 
 GODSICK--Jane Roten. Passed away on May 9, 2006 in Delray Beach, FL. Beloved wife of Steven J. Godsick. Loving and caring mother of Jeffrey and his wife Pam and Christopher and his wife Lisa, cherished Grams of Griffin, Samantha, Emily, Trevor, Sean, Amy and Kelli. Loving sister of John Rot
 GOLDBERG - Mildred. On May 14, 2006. Beloved daughter of the late Julius and Gertrude Goldberg. Loving sister of Dr. Maurice and Joyce Roe Goldberg. Loving aunt of Drs. Gari and Charles Bloom, Dr. Jeffrey and Faith Goldberg, Dr. Marc and Lynn Goldberg. Proud Graunty of Ali, Mack, Abby, Ben,
 MERRICK--Barbara L. Of Locust Valley, NY, and Osterville, Cape Cod, died at home Friday, May 12. Devoted wife of the late Herbert D. Merrick and mother of Frederic D. (Sue) Merrick, Deborah M. (Charles) Brisbane and Barbara L. Merrick (James Putkisto), her grandchildren Justin, Keegan, Bian
 MILLER--Edith B. Of Rancho Santa Margarita, California and longtime resident of Scarsdale, New York on April 9, 2006. Born on June 16, 1920, the daughter of Frances and Joseph Blaustein. Beloved wife of the late Howard. Devoted sister of Anita. Mother of Kenneth, Margie and Robert. Grandma 
 Joan Diener, whose lush beauty, showstopping stage presence and operatic voice made her a favorite in musicals, especially in the original 1965 ''Man of La Mancha'' as well as its revivals as late as 1992, died on Saturday in Manhattan. She was 76. The cause was complications from c
 BAER--Phoebe. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Phoebe Baer, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband Maurice, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Marc Goldberg, President       
 CARRIGAN--Joan.Of New York City died on May 10, 2006. Joan was born on August 26, 1947, the treasured daughter of the late Catherine and Marc Carrigan. Joan grew up in Wellesley, MA and was a graduate of Boston University and Boston College Law School. Joanie loved her family, friends, NYC,
 DYER--Helen, nee Undrosky. Peacefully entered eternal rest after a long illness on May 15 in New Rochelle. She was 81. A longtime resident of New York City, ''Honey'' was the owner of the Helen Dyer Interiors and a member of ASID. Her husband John F. Dyer, Esq. predeceased her in 1987. She 
 GRAY--Mary Washburn. Age 89, of New York City, died on April 27, 2006. Survived by her sons, Stephen V. Gray and Samuel O. Gray, and her daughter, Pauline Gray, and by five grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Mother of David Augustus Clarkson Gray, who died in 1975. She was the daughter
 JACOBS - Herma. Died peacefully May 15, 2006 at 97. Loving mother of Miles and Steve Scheffer. Beloved grandmother of Bill, Andrew, Jenny, Alli and Beth. Adoring great grandmother of Ben. $(6$)JACOBS--Herma. Of New York. The Directors and Officers of the National Mah Jongg League mo
 JONES--Helen Cooke. Died May 4, 2006 in San Francisco. She was an activist, an actress, a drama teacher, a radio producer and a writer. She is survived by her daughters Clothilde Hewlett, Dr. Mary Ann Jones and Susan Jones, and three grandsons, all of San Francisco.       
 MERRICK--Barbara L. Of Locust Valley, NY, and Osterville, Cape Cod, died at home Friday, May 12. Devoted wife of the late Herbert D. Merrick and mother of Frederic D. (Sue) Merrick, Deborah M. (Charles) Brisbane and Barbara L. Merrick (James Putkisto), her grandchildren Justin, Keegan, Bian
 BADER--Beatrice. She walks in beauty like the night. All my love. Ann       
 DORN--Dorothy. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns Dorothy Dorn, member, ACF human rights missions, wife of Founding Trustee, the late Congressman Francis Dorn. She was a blessing to Steven--our Sec.Treas., John, Therese and Karen. Our condolences to the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schne
 LINDEMANN - Lilyan. On May 15, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Barbara Lindemann, George Lindemann, Carol Abend and mother-in-law of Frayda Lindemann & Sander Abend. Cherished grandmother of Adam, George, Bradford, Sloan and Blake. Great-grandmother of Helen, Charlot
 ROEBLING--Kate Maddock. Died May 15, at the age of 93. She was born in Trenton and resided there until 1956 when she and her family moved to Lambertville. Daughter of the late Harold S. and Grace Johnston Maddock, wife of the late James Roger Prior and Ferdinand W. Roebling III, sister of t
 WHITE--Rowenna L. Wight. May 17, 1980--Sept 2, 1998. ''Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known.'' Remembered on her 26th birthday by her mother       
 Joyce Ballantyne Brand, a commercial and pinup artist who created the famed Coppertone Girl advertisement, died on Monday at her home in Ocala, Fla. She was 88. She suffered a heart attack late last week and had been released from the hospital under hospice care, her daughter Cheri 
 DORN--Dorothy, 83, died May 13 of cancer in Palo Alto, CA. Born May 2, 1923 in Colon, Panama. Daughter of John T. McGann, originally of Boston, an engineer for the Panama Canal; and Emily Stevens McGann, whose father was a ship's captain who received the last license to sail the seven seas.
 SIMON--Sybil C. Passed away May 14, 2006. My strongest admirer, my toughest critic. My favorite Scrabble player. My mother, my friend. Judi McLaughlin $(6$)SIMON--Sybil C. was extraordinarily supportive of the New York Youth Symphony as a member of the Board since 1988. Her spirit w
 SKYDELL--A. Harry. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of A. Harry Skydell, beloved uncle of Gabrielle Riback Propp, a treasured friend whose deep commitment to our Women's Campaign enriches Jewish life in New York and around the globe
 GOLDSMITH--Susan (Suzie) Takemoto, 81. Passed away peacefully on Monday, May 8, 2006 in Charleston, SC. She was born in Japan on February 21, 1925, the daughter of Kohachi Takemoto & Matsu Tachiban. Her Japanese name was Sumie. She immigrated to New York City in the late 1940's to live the 
 GRINKER--Lois. Died peacefully on May 18, 2006. An exquisite and vibrant 70, this remarkable lady fought valiantly against cancer for 24 months, never giving an inch, bright and beautiful until the very end. Born in the Bronx in 1936, Lois went from Midwood High School to her beloved Barnar
 HEATH--Elizabeth Seebeck, 84. On Mother's Day in Tryon, NC. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence S. Heath II for more than 60 years. Mother to Lawrence, Nicholas, Stephen, and Alfred and 9 grandchildren. Donations in her memory may be made to Foothills of the Carolinas Hospice, 130 Forest Glen
 MAGDOFF--Sylvia. Passed away on May 17, 2006, at the age of 91. Beloved wife of the late Jerry, loving mother of Roberta and Mark Aaronson, cherished Nanny of Neil and Dafna and Josh and Cindy, adoring great Grandma Lady to Julia and Haley and devoted sister to Seymour and Terry Sobel. Fami
 ROGERS--Harriet Gould. 82, passed away on Sunday, May 14, 2006 at Stone Ridge in Mystic, CT. Known as Teedie, she lived in Stonington, CT 1987-2004 and in Darien, CT 1952-1987. She was born in New York City, the daughter of Lyttleton B.P. and Isabel Howell Gould and grew up in Noroton, CT a
 RUDIN--Min. Dear Sondra, your loss is our loss. Your mother was an incredibly kind and caring person and she will be missed by all of us. May she rest in peace. With our personal condolences, Freddie, Tami, Jason and Hailey       
 SIMON--Sybil. The Lower East Side Tenement Museum mourns the passing of former Board Chair Sybil Simon. Her leadership was essential to the institutions growth.       
 BECKER--Gloria, known professionally as Gloria Spitz, died peacefully May 18, 2006 at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in NYC. Devoted wife of over fifty years to Abraham Becker, beloved mother of Richard & Steven Becker, loving mother-in-law of Carri Joy Becker & Emily Mitchell Becker & cher
 FRIEDMAN--Marian. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President       
 KAPNER--Doris. On Thursday, May 18 2006. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Mark, Carol and Judy. Cherished grandmother of Jocelyn, Oliver & Isabel. Services at Riverside Chapel, 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave, 11:15 AM Sunday, May 21. Memorial contributions may be made to NY Sec
 REISLER--Harriet. On May 18th, 2006. Beloved wife of the late New York Supreme Court Justice Ray Reisler, Loving mother of Raymond Frank and Nancy, proud grandmother of Karen, Zachary and Michael and greatgrandmother of Samantha and Allison. Master's degree in English from Adelphi Universit
 RUDIN--Min. Dear Sondra, your loss is our loss. Your mother was an incredibly kind and caring person and she will be missed by all of us. May she rest in peace. With our personal condolences, Freddie, Tami, Jason and Hailey $(6$)RUDIN--Minnie. We express deep sorrow at the passing o
 STRAUSS--Libby. Of Miami Beach, FL., died Wednesday after a short illness. Libby led many lives in her 80 years-as an activist for a multitude of social and political causes, a food columnist for the Miami Herald, and a development officer for the Brandeis University National Women's Commit
 ARBEENY--Emily. The entire Long Island College Hospital (LICH) family is saddened by the passing of Emily Arbeeny, longtime member of the LICH Board of Regents. Her lifelong commitment to community health greatly benefited Brooklyn residents and Long Island College Hospital. She will be gre
 BECKER--Gloria, known professionally as Gloria Spitz, died peacefully May 18, 2006 at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in NYC. Devoted wife of over fifty years to Abraham Becker, beloved mother of Richard & Steven Becker, loving mother-in-law of Carri Joy Becker & Emily Mitchell Becker & cher
 CARLICK--Jane. Of New York. Died May 10, 2006. Honest, hard worker, loyal friend who will be remembered by all who loved her. A memorial will be held on May 28, 3-5 PM, at Telephone Bar & Grill, 149 Second Ave. Contributions in remembrance of Jane can be made to the American Cancer Society.
 COHEN--Edith. Formerly of Manhattan, NY, died in New London, CT. Born May 27, 1921 to Charles and Dorothy Ehrlich Cohen of Brooklyn, predeceased by a sister Helen Coburne. She was a career special education teacher at PS 121 Manhattan, and a summer counselor at Camp Waterford in Quaker Hill
 COTTINGHAM--Betty J. Died at the age of 82, in her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, on May 19, 2006. Born and raised in Syracuse, NY, Betty Comiez volunteered as a nurse's aide during World War II. She moved to New York City in 1949, married Robert Cottingham in 1951, and gave birt
 DARCY--Natalie. July 29, 1909-May 18, 2006. Dr. Darcy, the only girl of thirteen children born to Maud Horgan Darcy and Michael Darcy, was a psychologist and teacher at Brooklyn College and Fordham University for many years before retirement in 1972. She was a devoted parishoner and first c
 GORCHOFF--Nora. At home on May 13. She worked in the research division of the NY Public Library and was active in her local community board. Survived by her husband George of Laguna, Woods CA.       
 HALPERN--Shelly. Ph.D, educator, writer, photographer, historian, died suddenly on April 28, 2006 from complications following surgery. She was 69 years old. An independent, forthright, incisive thinker of great integrity, she worked closely with Dr. Kenneth Clark, taught at the university 
 JOY--Eileen C. Suddenly on May 17, 2006. Beloved daughter of the late Catherine and James F. Joy. A lifelong New Yorker who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call Tuesday May 23rd 2-5 & 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, 81 St. Mass of Christian Bu
 MARCUS--Ruth (nee Zimmerman), 86, of Bronx, NY, passed away on May 19th, 2006. Graduate of Hunter College, Class of 1939. Beloved wife of Jack Marcus. Devoted aunt to Joan Azarva and Robert Newman. Devoted to her cousins Charles Sternberg, Aaron Warshawer, Gary and Terry Miller, sisterin-la
 RUDIN--Min. Dear Sondra, your loss is our loss. Your mother was an incredibly kind and caring person and she will be missed by all of us. May she rest in peace. With our personal condolences, Freddie, Tami, Jason and Hailey $(6$)RUDIN--Minnie. We express deep sorrow at the passing o
 RYAN--Angela Shen, Ph.D., 77. Died on May 18, 2006 after a long illness. She was a beloved wife, mother and grandmother as well as an esteemed professor of social work. Her loss is deeply felt. A service will be held at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel at 1076 Madison Ave. on Tuesday, M
 STERN--Harriet May, of Rye, NY, on May 19th. Beloved wife of Bill Stern, the late sportscaster, loving mother of Peter Stern of NY, Mary Wiehe of Citrus Springs, FL, and Patricia Mulcahy of La Mesa, CA. She is also survived by a brother Richard May of Tucson, AZ, seven grandchildren and sev
 STRAUSS--Libby. Of Miami Beach, FL., died Wednesday after a short illness. Libby led many lives in her 80 years-as an activist for a multitude of social and political causes, a food columnist for the Miami Herald, and a development officer for the Brandeis University National Women's Commit
 VORSANGER - SAUL - Helen. We mourn the loss of Helen Vorsanger-Saul, age 51, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. She is survived by her devoted husband Mitchell, loving daughters Lauren and Stacy, her mother Anne Vorsanger, brother Dr. Gary Vorsanger (Debbie), her cousins Dr. Je
 DARCY--Natalie. July 29, 1909-May 18, 2006. Dr. Darcy, the only girl of thirteen children born to Maud Horgan Darcy and Michael Darcy, was a psychologist and teacher at Brooklyn College and Fordham University for many years before retirement in 1972. She was a devoted parishoner and first c
 RAISLER -- Jeanne, CNM, DrPH. Died May 19, Ann Arbor, MI, age 59. Beloved wife to Jonathan Cohn, mother to Josina and Josh, daughter-inlaw of Pauline Cohn and daughter of the late Harold Raisler and Mary Kutz. Born in New York City, Jeanne received her MSN in Midwifery from Columbia Univers
 RUDIN--Min. Dear Sondra, your loss is our loss. Your mother was an incredibly kind and caring person and she will be missed by all of us. May she rest in peace. With our personal condolences, Freddie, Tami, Jason and Hailey       
 RYAN--Angela Shen, Ph.D., 77. Died on May 18, 2006 after a long illness. She was a beloved wife, mother and grandmother as well as an esteemed professor of social work. Her loss is deeply felt. A service will be held at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel at 1076 Madison Ave. on Tuesday, M
 STERN--Harriet May, of Rye, NY, on May 19th. Beloved wife of Bill Stern, the late sportscaster, loving mother of Peter Stern of NY, Mary Wiehe of Citrus Springs, FL, and Patricia Mulcahy of La Mesa, CA. She is also survived by a brother Richard May of Tucson, AZ, seven grandchildren and sev
 Katherine Dunham, the dancer, choreographer, teacher and anthropologist whose pioneering work introduced much of the black heritage in dance to the stage, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 96. Her death was confirmed by Dr. Glory Van Scott, a friend and former Dunham dan
 BAKER--KeoraP. 85, Educator. Beloved wife of Dr. Elmer E. Baker Jr. for more than 60 years. Died on May 21, 2006 at Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home. Private services at Frank E. Campbell followed by intombment at Trinity Church Mausoleum. Donations in her memory may be made to The Lotos Clu
 FRIEDMAN--Beverley. Beloved wife of the late Alex. Devoted mother of Andrew and Laurie & Paul Korngold. Cherished grandmother of Adam and Evan Korngold. Beverley passed on her birthday, May 21, 2006. Services 12 noon, Wednesday, May 23, at The Riverside, 21 West Broad Street, Mt. Vernon, NY
 RUBINSTEIN-WEBER--Ruth, 86. Died on Monday, May 22, 2006 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Norman Rubinstein & the late Jack Weber, sister of Doris Selub and the late Norman Burtman, devoted mother of William S. Rubinstein (Sheryl) & Alan F. Rubinstein (Susan), grandmother of M
 BAKER--Keora P., 85, Educator. Beloved wife of Dr. Elmer E. Baker Jr. for more than 60 years. Died on May 21, 2006 at Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home. Private services at Frank E. Campbell followed by entombment at Trinity Church Mausoleum. Donations in her memory may be made to The Lotos C
 FRIEDMAN--Beverley. Beloved wife of the late Alex. Devoted mother of Andrew and Laurie & Paul Korngold. Cherished grandmother of Adam and Evan Korngold. Beverley passed on her birthday, May 21, 2006. Services 12 noon, Wednesday, May 24, at The Riverside, 21 West Broad Street, Mt. Vernon, NY
 JOSEPHSON--Anne, 95. Died peacefully in her sleep Monday. She was a retired speech therapist, an avid reader and bridge player. She was the wife of the late Abe Josephson and the sister of the late Becky Goldspinner and Dr. Morton Polokoff. She is survived by her loving children and their s
 KEYES--Marie A. (Bonanno). Of Bayside, NY, Saturday, May 20. Loving mother of Louise Rutkay & Gregory Isola. Cherished grandmother of Andrew Isola, David, Scott and Caitlin Rutkay. Mrs. Keyes worked for the NYC Board of Education for 25 years. Upon retirement, she volunteered at Old Westbur
 LAUNER--Edith Rosen. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Edith Rosen Launer, mother of Judith Palkovitz, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May her memory be for a blessing. June Walker, National President Morlie Levin, National 
 PIERCE--Dora Redway, 85. Of Northeast Harbor, ME. Died peacefully on May 16 in Bar Harbor, ME. Widow of the late C. Eliot Pierce, she is survived by her four children: Charles E. Pierce, Jr., of Manhattan; Edith P. Murphy of Rockland, ME; Joan P. Uraneck of South Portland, ME; and Benjamin 
 RUBINSTEIN-WEBER--Ruth, 86. Died on Monday, May 22, 2006 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Norman Rubinstein & the late Jack Weber, sister of Doris Selub and the late Norman Burtman, devoted mother of William S. Rubinstein (Sheryl) & Alan F. Rubinstein (Susan), grandmother of M
 Judith Moore, the author of ''Fat Girl,'' a searingly angry and widely praised memoir about being overweight, died on May 15 in Berkeley, Calif. She was 66. The cause was colon cancer, said her daughter Rebecca Moore. ''I am a short, squat toad of a woman,'' Ms. Moore wrote 
 BUDICK--Helen E., 80. Went to her eternal rest on May 24th 2006. Beloved mother of Benjamin (Gail), Alan (Cheryl), Debra (Hank Sheinkopf), and Chira Budick. Adored grandmother of Isaac, Daniel, and Sarah. Loving sister of Eunice Wolfson, and Irving Effron. Cherished aunt, and friend. Graves
 CUTLER--Estelle Press. We are heartbroken over the loss of our precious cousin Estie. She will be remembered for her gentility, wisdom, kindness, and her selfless commitment to her family. We shared a lifetime of friendship and love. We will miss her forever. Shelby and Bill Modell       
 HAUSER--Susan. Wife, mother and grandmother. Enjoyed life to the fullest. She defied cancer and lived long enough to enjoy the bar and bat mitvahs of all her grandchildren. She loved traveling throughout the world. May she have a peaceful journey. Services today, 10 AM, at ''Schwartz Bros.-
 PIERCE--Dora Redway, 85. Of Northeast Harbor, ME. Died peacefully on May 16 in Bar Harbor, ME. Widow of the late C. Eliot Pierce, she is survived by her four children: Charles E. Pierce, Jr., of Manhattan; Edith P. Murphy of Rockland, ME; Joan P. Uraneck of South Portland, ME; and Benjamin 
 PIERCE--Helen L., 79, educator, died peacefully in her home in Fishers, IN on Monday, May 22, 2006. She had been retired from the NYC public school system for 15 years after serving 37 years as an Elementary School teacher, Reading Specialist and Assistant Principal. Her preparation include
 POURAVELIS--Maxine Paul. Beloved wife of James. Devoted and loving mother of Claudia and Justine. Died on May 23 after a brief illness due to cancer. Funeral Mass Friday, May 26, 11 AM, St. Margaret's Church, Old Orchard Beach, ME. Visiting hours Thursday, May 25, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, Old Orchar
 Elizabeth A. Connelly, a New York State assemblywoman from Staten Island for 27 years who was a leader in the fight against drunken driving, died yesterday at her home in the Westerleigh section of the borough. She was 77. The cause was cancer, her husband, Robert, said. Mrs
 TERRIEN--DesNeiges, age 46 went to Heaven on May 21. She was predeceased by her parents, Georgeann Skakel Terrien and George Terrien and her siblings Alexandra Dowdle and John Joseph Dowdle. DesNeiges graduated from The Convent of The Sacred Heart in Greenwich, Connecticut and Mount Vernon 
 EPSTEIN--Dorothy. Longtime activist, organizer, feminist and entrepreneur died on May 25, 2006 at the age of 92. She was independent, strong willed, generous, a fighter for causes she believed in, and the first woman to achieve many of the positions she held. Born in the Bronx in 1913, she 
 CONNELLY--Elizabeth. The friends, members, Board, staff and participants of AHRC express their profound grief at the loss of a good and loyal friend Betty Connelly. Assemblywoman Betty Connelly's commitment to improving the lives of people with mental retardation and developmental disabilit
 Cheikha Rimitti, a pioneer of the rebellious Algerian pop called raï, died on May 15 in Paris, where she had lived since 1978. She was 83. The cause was a heart attack, her Web site said. Cheikha Rimitti was considered the queen of raï (RYE or rah-AY), which means opinion 
 AIBEL--Katherine W. A celebration of her life will be held at 11 AM, June 3, at the Unitarian Church in Westport, CT, 10 Lyons Plains Road.       
 CASH--Jane M. Formerly of Bronxville and Scarsdale on May 25, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Pete Cash. Loving mother of Cami (Chuck) Hanson, Debby (Kevin) McIntosh, both of New Canaan, Jeff (Mary) Cash of Traverse City, MI. Devoted grandmother of Jennifer Spitz, Megan Bergen, Erin Gaynor, 
 EPSTEIN--Dorothy. Longtime activist, organizer, feminist and entrepreneur died on May 25, 2006 at the age of 92. She was independent, strong willed, generous, a fighter for causes she believed in, and the first woman to achieve many of the positions she held. Born in the Bronx in 1913, she 
 KETCHAM--Ira D. 76, of Jamestown, RI, passed away on May 25, 2006, after a courageous battle with cancer. She was the devoted wife of the late James B. Ketcham for 52 years. Born in Weston, WV, she was the daughter of Mary Hart Davisson and George Izard Davisson. She was a graduate of the B
 PREZIOSO--Olga Antona. 90, of Crestwood, NY, on May 26, 2006. Daughter of the late Ubaldo and Matilde Pecci Prisco. Past president of the Women's Club of Crestwood. Predeceased by her husband Alfred, and survived by her sons Alfred E. (Arlene) Preszioso of Hamden, CT, and Richard V. (Barbar
 ROMERO - Manuela. The Romero family and their friends mourn the passing of our beloved sister, aunt and comrade Manuela Romero on April 5 2006. Born in Astoria, New York on July 19, 1924, Manuela was a long term resident of East Rockaway, New York, a graduate of City College, founder and pa
 SCHWAGER--Elaine, Ph.D. Members and candidates of the Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research mourn the tragic lose of our esteemed colleague and friend, Elaine Schwager. Elaine was a psychologist, psychoanalyst, poet, wife and mother. Our heartfelt condolences to Elaine's childr
 SEGAL--Ethel. Died May 23 at 99. Even in her 100th year, she took great joy in life and communicated it to all who knew her. She was much beloved by her sons, David and Joel, her seven grandchildren and her five great-grandchildren. Ethel was active in the NYC Opera and Ballet Guilds, Brand
 SOKOLOW--Isobel A. Passed away Friday, May 19. She was a professional artist living and working in New York, Florida and Italy. Her work was exhibited in museums and galleries both nationally and internationally. She has been the recipient of several awards including the Silver Medal Audubo
 VANDER VEER -- Martha Jane (nee Ashton) of Syosset, NY on May 23, 2006. Among her many accomplishments she was a graduate of the University of Washington, a columnist for Oyster Bay Guardian, Governor of the International Platform Association, a freelance author and a member of the Writer's
 CONNELLY--Elizabeth A. A longtime friend to United Cerebral Palsy of New York City, Betty was a frequent visitor to our center on Staten Island, always talking with and listening to our program participants, asking what she and her colleagues in government could do to make their lives more 
 SULZBERGER--Maye. 5/28/10--11/26/05. This is the first time in a long long time that we haven't celebrated Maye's birthday with her. So instead now we simply celebrate her. Loved and missed. The Family       
 Carolyn Shaw Bell, an economist at Wellesley College who took her fight for equal opportunities for women in economics from the college into the national arena, died May 13 at her home in Arlington, Va. She was 85. Mary Ann Hill, a college spokeswoman, announced Dr. Bell's death.   
 BLOOM--Leslie. June 19, 1943, to May 26, 2006. Beloved sister of Deborah and Michael, loving daughter of the late Bea and Sam. Leslie loved her family and friends, bird watching, books, and the New York Mets. She will live forever in our hearts. Contributions in Leslie's memory may be made 
 ENLANDER--Caron. My darling Caron has died and left me bereft. All who knew her are saddened. She was a gift to all who knew her. Her Loving Husband, Derek Brother, Jeffrey and Robyn Mother, Valerie $(6$)ENLANDER -- Caron. Our condolences to Dr. Derek Enlander and family on the pass
 FARBER--Anne. At the age of 57. A resident of New Rochelle. Loving wife of Richard Kaiser. Devoted mother of Rachel (Mike), Emily (Michael), Deborah, Samuel. Cherished grandmother of Zachary. Survived by her mother Marjorie and beloved sister Elizabeth (Bill), and aunt of Doris and Sophie. 
 GIBBONS--Marie C. Age 82, of Summit, NJ, on May 25, 2006. Beloved wife for 50 years of the late Patrick J. Gibbons Jr. Loving mother of Christine Gibbons McKay and Patrick J. Gibbons III. Cherished grandmother of Andrew and John McKay and Aidan Gibbons. Dear sister of Elizabeth A. Cunningha
 SCHNALL--Jean. On May 28, 2006. She passed away at her home, 91 years old. Loving, devoted, self - sacrificing Mother, charming and witty friend, devoted daughter. She will be dearly missed. Graveside burial on May 30, at 11 am, Mt. Hebron Cemetery. Her daughter Flora will receive family an
 SCHWAGER - Elaine. We mourn the loss of our lifelong friend, Elaine Schwager. She was a good and loyal friend, a perceptive, insightful thinker and poet. We will miss her quiet, firm presence. Our hearts are with her mother, Inge, her husband, Marvin, and her children, Carl and Julia. Peter
 CUMMINGS--Joan W., of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Rockville Centre, NY. Beloved wife for over 50 years of S. Stuart (Pat). Devoted mother of Robin C. Warren (Gary) and Stephen P. Cummings. Adored grandmother of Marisa and Gregory Warren. Loyal sister to Donald G. Wolff. Daughter of the la
 DIAMOND - Beatrice. Died May 29. Retired head bookkeeper of Sterling National Bank where she worked for 47 years. Predeceased by husband Lawrence Diamond.       
 ENLANDER--Caron. She was a rare gem herself. We are deeply saddened by her passing. Our condolences to her adored and adoring husband, Derek, and the family. Wendy Brandes and Paul Steiger $(6$)ENLANDER -- Caron. You went too soon. We shall all miss you. The Walking Group       
 FORSTER--Elizabeth (Betty) Graham died May 22, 2006 at her home in New York City, in her 93rd year. Predeceased by parents John R. and Grace C. (Towse) Forster, sister H. Patricia Forster, brothers Cyril, Francis R.C. Forster, MD, J. Wilfred Forster, MD, Douglas S. Forster, MD, she is survi
 GIBBONS--Marie C. Age 82, of Summit, NJ, on May 25, 2006. Beloved wife for 50 years of the late Patrick J. Gibbons Jr. Loving mother of Christine Gibbons McKay and Patrick J. Gibbons III. Cherished grandmother of Andrew and John McKay and Aidan Gibbons. Dear sister of Elizabeth A. Cunningha
 HUBER--Barbara S. 61, of Carmel, IN, formerly of Hewlett, NY, died May 21. She is survived by her children, Jason and Alexis Scherl; and her sisters, Francine Pearo and Genie Tober. She will be dearly missed.       
 KENISTON--Dr. Ellen U. Of Cambridge, MA, psychologist and psychotherapy supervisor, died in her home on May 24, at age 73. She held academic appointments at Yale University, Tufts New England Medical Center Department of Child Psychiatry, and Harvard Medical School where, since 1989, she wa
 SCHWAGER - Elaine. We mourn the loss of our lifelong friend, Elaine Schwager. She was a good and loyal friend, a perceptive, insightful thinker and poet. We will miss her quiet, firm presence. Our hearts are with her mother, Inge, her husband, Marvin, and her children, Carl and Julia. Peter
 BARBIERI--Dolores. August 7, 1947, died May 29, 2006. She was the beloved life partner of Lucille Ferrari; daughter to Marie and the late Robert Barbieri; devoted sister and aunt; and adored friend of many. Dolores was Asst Commissioner of the NYC Dept of Transportation, and previously serv
 AIBEL--Katherine W. A celebration of her life will be held at 11 AM, June 3, at the Unitarian Church in Westport, CT, 10 Lyons Plains Road.       
 AMES--Margaret L (Peggie). May 16, 2006 of heart failure in Linthicum, MD. She was born in Argentina on August 24, 1911, raised in Staten Island and Chappaqua and lived in Greenwich Village for more than fifty years. She served in The American Red Cross in World War II, was a travel agent i
 ENLANDER - Caron. The Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing of a distinguished member of the Presidium of the Yeshiva University Women's Organization, which honored her recently at its Opera Gala. She was internationally respected as a major leader in the diamond indust
 FARBER--Anne, Dr. Temple Israel of New Rochelle records with sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Anne Farber, and extends its sympathy to the family. Paul Warhit, President Michael Z. Cahana, Rabbi $(6$)FARBER--Anne. The Partners and Staff of Labaton Sucharow & Rudoff LLP ext
 SIMON--Rose. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed founding member. We extend deepest sympathy to her children David, Lois, and to the entire family. Aubrey L. Glazer, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Paul D. Hendler, Pres. Karen Goldsti
 SOKOLOFF -- Alice Hunt. Died April 29, 2006 in Sun Valley, Idaho. She was born in New York, June 3, 1912, the daughter of the late Dr. James Ramsay Hunt, professor of neurology at Columbia University, who was arguably the pre-eminent neurologist of the 20th century. Her mother was the late 
 ZIEGELLAUB--Hannah, 61 died May 29, 2006 in New York City of complications from Multiple Sclerosis. She is predeceased by her beloved husband Michael Brussell and her parents Dora and Detch Ziegellaub. Hannah was a consummate visual artist, a passionate social justice activist, and an extra
 PUTTERMAN - Margaret. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted congregant. We extend to her daughter, Gail Rosenkrantz, and the entire family, our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board M
