 GEISLER--Enid (Friedman), on December 29, 2006. Beloved wife, devoted mother, grandmother and sister-inlaw. She is survived by her husband Mortimer Geisler and children, Iris Horowitz, Daniel Friedman, Steven, Warren, Edward and Jayne Geisler, son and daughters-inlaw, Steven Horowitz, Holly
 GIUDICE--Emily, 94 of Ridgewood, NJ died December 31, 2006. She is survived by her husband Dr. Vincent Giudice and her sons Chris, Cliff and Russ Jacobs. Services C.C. Van Emburgh Funeral Home, Ridgewood, NJ.       
 HIRSCH--Trude, born in Vienna, Austria. Beloved wife of 64 years of Charles. Beacon of strength to her sons Howard and Kenneth. Adored grandmother of Brian and Douglas. High spirited friend of many. December 25, she will be sorely missed by all.       
 LOSSIN--Michael Louis, on December 30, 2006. Loving son of Arthur and Terrie. Devoted brother of Jo Anne Margolin and her husband Avi. Beloved partner of Kevin P. White. Funeral services will be held Wednesday 11:30am at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St.
 MUSKATT--Helen (Henny), 86, on December 23rd. Longtime resident of the Hebrew Home for the Aged. Survived by beloved children Phil (Mimy), Rosalie (Jerry) and Mark (Yonina), brother Leo Schechter (Florence), grandchildren Ariella (Tzvi), Adam, Nitzan, Ziv and Dotan, greatgrandchildren Moshe
 SYMINGTON--Maud Lee, passed away on December 28, 2006 at the age of 72 in her home from complications stemming from Fibromialgia and COPD. She is survived by her son and daughter Tim and Sarah Ives, her grandchildren Grace, Lily and Rowan Ives and her sister Sarah Meyer. Maud was born and r
 EBERSTADT--Isabel Nash, died peacefully at home in New York December 30, after a long illness. Born in Baltimore September 30, 1933 she is the daughter of the poet Ogden Nash and his wife Frances Leonard. The beloved wife of Frederick Eberstadt, she is the devoted mother of Nicholas Nash Eb
 GEISLER--Enid (Friedman), on December 29, 2006. Beloved wife, devoted mother, grandmother and sister-inlaw. She is survived by her husband Mortimer Geisler and children, Iris Horowitz, Daniel Friedman, Steven, Warren, Edward and Jayne Geisler, son and daughters-inlaw, Steven Horowitz, Holly
 GREENE--Shirley K., age 88, of New York and Connecticut. Loving wife to the late Myron Greene, died December 25th, 2006. Devoted mother, grandmother, great grandmother, and sister. Graduate of Hunter College and Yale, worked initially in the public health field and then with husband Myron f
 HAMBERGER--Anita, 97, of White Plains, NY. Loving mother of Barnett Hamberger and Judith Lewis. Adored grandmother of Joshua, Elizabeth, and Samantha Lewis, and Jennifer Berkey, caring mother-in-law of Jeffrey Lewis and grandmother-in-law of Steve Berkey. She is also survived by an extended
 HIDARY--Mariel. The Officers, Board of Trustees and Staff of the Sephardic Community Federation grieve the tragic loss of the beloved daughter of our Executive Committee Member and Trustee David & Aimee Hidary and dear sister of Jack, Murray, Ricky and our Trustee Michael. During her brief 
 LOSSIN--Michael Louis, on December 30, 2006. Loving son of Arthur and Terrie. Devoted brother of Jo Anne Margolin and her husband Avi. Beloved partner of Kevin P. White. Funeral services will be held Wednesday 11:30am at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St.
 MUSKATT--Helen (Henny), 86, on December 23rd. Longtime resident of the Hebrew Home for the Aged. Survived by beloved children Phil (Mimy), Rosalie (Jerry) and Mark (Yonina), brother Leo Schechter (Florence), grandchildren Ariella (Tzvi), Adam, Nitzan, Ziv and Dotan, greatgrandchildren Moshe
 BRECK--Rachel Hammond, on January 1, 2007, aged 98. A cattle breeder and for many years owner of Hedgerows Farm, West Cornwall, CT, she was sometimes referred to as ''First Lady of the Angus Industry'' and was inducted into the Aberdeen Angus Hall of Fame. She is survived by her daughter Le
 CLAGHORN--Margery R., 82, died December 30th, 2006 in Princeton. Wife of John W Jr. Two sons and daughters-inlaw , John W III and Margaret J, David T and Elizabeth W. Two daughters and son-inlaw, Margery C and her late husband Randall Robertson, Susan C and Stewart W Ferguson; a sister Enid
 GEORGE--Judith Ross, 74, December 31st 2006 of lung cancer. She was a warm and witty woman who was so gallant in death. Survived by her husband of fifty years, George W. George; daughter, Jennifer; grandchildren, Max and Emily; stepchildren, Linda Tai, Laurie and Larry George; and stepgrand
 GREENE--Shirley K., age 88, of New York and Connecticut. Loving wife to the late Myron Greene, died December 25th, 2006. Devoted mother, grandmother, great grandmother, and sister. Graduate of Hunter College and Yale, worked initially in the public health field and then with husband Myron f
 HOLLAND--Laura, of Westchester died December 30th, 2006. Wife of the late Jerome Holland, who was past US Ambassador to Sweden, Chairman of the American Red Cross, Corporate Board Director, and College President. She is survived by two children and three grandchildren. Affiliations included
 KALLMAN--Barbara (Concool), of Hickory, North Carolina, lost her courageous battle with leukemia on December 30, 2006. She is survived by her daughters Susan and Ellen (Jeff) and her sister Marilyn (Sam). Donations in her memory may be made to Habitat for Humanity, Hospice or Temple Beth Sh
 LEVINE--Sylvia (Raboy), 90, on December 31st 2006. Beloved wife of the late Morris Levine. She is survived by her daughter and son-in-law, Arna and Dr. Michael Goldstein of West Bloomfield, Michigan; son and daughterin-law Gary and Peggy Levine of Ridgefield, CT; grandchildren Jennifer Gold
 LOSSIN--Michael Louis, on December 30, 2006. Loving son of Arthur and Terrie. Devoted brother of Jo Anne Margolin and her husband Avi. Beloved partner of Kevin P. White. Funeral services will be held Wednesday 11:30am at Frank E. Campbell, The Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St.
 MARCHAND--Lucienne died December 28. She was 98. Born Olga Lucienne Espir in Paris, she spent the last 66 years living in New York. Wife of the late Max Marchand, she is survived by sons and daughters-in-law Lucien Simon and Phyllis Marchand of Princeton, NJ and Daniel and Brenda Marchand o
 OLTARSH--Valerie. ''The Monday Group'' mourns the loss of a devoted friend, colleague and psychoanalyst. Valerie was unfailingly dedicated to her patients and profession. We admire her intellect, warmth and respect for others. A generous, gracious woman, she faced her illness with courage. 
 SOMMERFELD--Megan Ceara, loving wife to James Lidington, passed away on December 30, 2006, following an unexpected cardiac event at her home in New York City. Megan was born on June 27, 1975, daughter of Arne and Denise Sommerfeld, and sister to Matthew. Megan grew up in Nova Scotia where s
 Tillie Olsen, whose short stories, books and essays lent a heartfelt voice to the struggles of women and working-class people, died on Monday in Oakland, Calif. She was 94. Ms. Olsen died after being in declining health for years, her daughter Laurie Olsen said. A daughter o
 CARLSON--Sylvia, Ph.D. RN, 81, beloved sister, aunt and great-aunt formerly of New Hyde Park, NY died December 21, in Holtsville, NY. Innovative nursing educator and practitioner who tended compassionately to those in need of care. She will truly be missed. Donations to ALZ.org       
 COHEN--Dorothy, Temple Beth El of Cedarhurst, records with sorrow the passing of it's member. We grieve with the family on their loss. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Richard Holland, President $(6$)COHEN--Dorothy, passed away on January 2nd, 2007. In loving memory her daughter Natalie, and
 D'AGOSTINO--Ida Dorothy, suddenly, on January 2nd, 2007. Alumnus of Packer Collegiate Institute, 1935. Graduate of the Columbia University School of Business, 1942. Former Benefit Plan Administrator of the National Lead Corp. Beloved daughter of the late Dora (nee Deserti) and Albert D'Agos
 EBERSTADT--Isabel. The Board, residents and staff of 791 Park Avenue are deeply saddened by the passing of long time resident, Isabel Eberstadt. We extend our sympathy to her husband, Fredrick Eberstadt and to her family. Michael Weisberg, Board President       
 GEORGE--Judith Ross, 74, December 31st 2006 of lung cancer. She was a warm and witty woman who was so gallant in death. Survived by her husband of fifty years, George W. George; daughter, Jennifer; grandchildren, Max and Emily; stepchildren, Linda Tai, Laurie and Larry George; and stepgrand
 OLTARSH--Valerie The Postgraduate Psychoanalytic Society mourns the lost of our esteemed member. We send condolences to her family. $(6$)OLTARSH--Valerie ''She walks in beauty like the night'' A woman of compassion, commitment and love of life. Her warmth, beauty, understanding, env
 SAVAGE--Elizabeth, 93, died on November 9, 2006 at the Actors Home in Englewood, NJ, but she was a quintessential New Yorker whose spiritual home remained the streets of Manhattan. The only child of her Shakespearean actor father, C. McLean Savage and mother, Grace Hanna, she'd helped to su
 SOMMERFELD--Megan Ceara, loving wife to James Lidington, passed away on December 30, 2006, following an unexpected cardiac event at her home in New York City. Megan was born on June 27, 1975, daughter of Arne and Denise Sommerfeld, and sister to Matthew. Megan grew up in Nova Scotia where s
 WASSERMAN - Rose, died January 2, 2007 in Atlanta, Georgia surrounded by her family. She was the beloved wife of the late Samuel Wasserman, loving mother of Barry Wasserman, Arlene Adelman, and Barbara Seid. She was the adoring grandmother of Sheri, Lisa, David, Michelle and Amy, and the pr
 D'AGOSTINO--Ida Dorothy, suddenly, on January 2nd, 2007. Alumnus of Packer Collegiate Institute, 1935. Graduate of the Columbia University School of Business, 1942. Former Benefit Plan Administrator of the National Lead Corp. Beloved daughter of the late Dora (nee Deserti) and Albert D'Agos
 EMMANUEL--Betty C. died peacefully on December 21. Born August 20, 1917 in New York, the city she loved. Devoted wife of the late Costa and adoring mother of Nicky and Jill. Remembered for her strength, common sense, and elegance. But above all, it was her devotion and un-conditional love f
 FORMAN--Jo-Nan (nee Lemeshnik), 65, passed away peacefully on Tuesday, January 1, 2008 in Boca Raton, FL. Formally of White Plains, NY, daugther of the late William and Shirley Lemeshnik. She is survived by her husband, Jerome G. Forman; sons, Lloyd, Scott (Susan), and Glenn; grandsons, And
 KNIGHT--Janice Marie, departed from us on December 30, 2007. Janice was loved by her family, co-workers and friends. Janice was a Principal of P.S. 235K for the pastten years. Janice is survived by her mother Miriam, two brothers, James and Stephen and extended family and friends. Viewing w
 MAST--Aimee, 75, died peacefully on January 4th, 2007 at the Weiler Hospital of the Einstein College of Medicine after a long illness. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, mother in law, aunt, great-aunt, niece, cousin and friend to many, she will be sorely missed by all who loved her. She is
 MORSE--Jane H., M.D. We are saddened by the passing of Jane H. Morse, Professor Emeritus of Clinical Medicine, College of Physicians & Surgeons. Dr. Morse was not only a scientific pioneer but a truly remarkable woman with tireless energy and a great passion and dedication to discovery. Dr.
 RATTET--Elaine, H. On January 3rd, 2007, beloved wife of Robert, adored mother of Michael, cherished sister of the late Carol Lefcourt, survived by Jenny, Daniel, and Megan Lefcourt, and Kim, Melissa, Seth Rattet, and their children. Noted ceramicist. Donation to Doctors Cancer Foundation, 
 ROSSI--Caila, died on January 3, 2007. Beloved wife of Walter, daughter of Herbert and Celeste Epstein, sister to Abby and Marion Bond, Matt Epstein and Deborah Hiatt, and Nancy and Larry Solomon, and wonderful aunt, cousin and friend. Caila radiated life in all its fullness and beauty. She
 RUKIN--Alice, devoted mother of Ann Schwartz, Barnett Rukin and Wendy Gelman (Steven Gelman), adoring grandmother of Laura Schwartz (Michael Caruso), Meryl Schwartz (Jeffrey Salat), Melissa Schwartz (David Muenzer), Lauren Gelman (Kevin Poulsen), Allison Gelman, Michael Rukin, Laurence Ruki
 SMILES--Shelly. The members of Scarsdale Synagogue Tremont Temple mourn the death of Shelly Smiles, longtime and devoted member. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband, Stephen, her daughter, Anya Romanoff and her stepchildren, Allyson and Jacob, and the entire family. Our heart
 RUBENSTEIN--Marian. Passed away on December 31, 2006. She lived life on her own terms. She was a talented craftsperson who had a style all her own. Her friends will miss her companionship and chicken soup. On January 8, 2007, friends will be gathering at her apartment to celebrate her life.
 KANOF--Joan Sher. Beloved wife of Norman, devoted mother of David and Ann, proud grandmother of Mark and Jeff. Her passion for excellence in all she did, particularly where color was concerned, made our 60 year marriage a wonderful adventure. Burial private.       
 MICHAELS--Florence, on January 5th, 2007. Beloved and cherished mother, mother-in-law, and grandmother to Sandy, Jeff, and Ilana, the lights of her life. Devoted wife of the late William. Gave to Jewish charities and other causes, life member of Hadassah. Funeral Services, The Menorah Chape
 PITTER--Jean, 85. Mother, grandmother and great grandmother on January 4th. Born in Poland, raised in Brooklyn, she was pre-deceased by her loving husband Sidney, daughter Ellen and son Howard. Jean is survived by her three children Candice, Dean, and Maxine, and her brother Sam. She will b
 RATTET--Elaine. The attornies and staff of Rattet, Pasternak, & Gordon Oliver, LLP, mourn the untimely passing of Elaine Rattet, beloved wife of our senior partner Bob Rattet. Her warm smile and her laugh are forever etched in our minds. May she rest in peace. Attornies and staff of Rattet,
 SESKIS--Barbara. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved longtime member Barbara Seskis. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest sympathy to her entire family. Earle Yaffa, President Dale Winston, Secretary
 RUBENSTEIN--Marian. Passed away on December 31, 2006. She lived life on her own terms. She was a talented craftsperson who had a style all her own. Her friends will miss her companionship and chicken soup. On January 8, 2007, friends will be gathering at her apartment to celebrate her life.
 Chandralekha, an Indian dancer and choreographer known for her philosophical fusing of the classical Bharata Natyam dance form with martial arts and therapeutic varieties of dance, died on Dec. 30 at her seaside home in the Indian city of Chennai. She was 78. The cause was cervical 
 Elizabeth Fox-Genovese, a noted historian and women's studies scholar who roiled both disciplines with her transition from Marxist-inclined feminist to conservative public intellectual, died on Tuesday in Atlanta. She was 65 and had lived in Atlanta for many years. Ms. Fox-Genovese'
 BEADLESTON--Isabel M, of Rumson on December 30, 2006. Wife of the late Dr. Sydney P. Waud and Alfred N. Beadleston, Jr. Sister of the late Dorthea M. Coleman and George P. Morrell. Stepmother of the late Alfred N. Beadleston, III. Mother of Isabel Hertz, Beverly W. Sutherland and Sydney P. 
 CLAGHORN--Margery R., 82, died December 30th, 2006 in Princeton. Wife of John W Jr. Two sons and daughters-inlaw, John W III and Margaret J, David T and Elizabeth W. Two daughters and son-inlaw, Margery C and her late husband Randall Robertson, Susan C and Stewart W Ferguson; a sister Enid 
 EMMANUEL--Betty C. died peacefully on December 21. Born August 20, 1917 in New York, the city she loved. Devoted wife of the late Costa and adoring mother of Nicky and Jill. Remembered for her strength, common sense, and elegance. But above all, it was her devotion and un-conditional love f
 KANOF--Joan Sher. Beloved wife of Norman, devoted mother of David and Ann, proud grandmother of Mark and Jeff. Her passion for excellence in all she did, particularly where color was concerned, made our 60 year marriage a wonderful adventure. Burial private.       
 KARLIN--Dorine, a feisty spirit coated in the softest skin you can imagine, passed away from us on December 29th at age 61. A storyteller extraordinaire with a gesticulating Jersey flair, she made the mundane comical. She loved people. A humble and selfless mentor at home, on the job and in
 KURSH--Charlotte Olmsted, who died on December 27 at the age of 94, was the only child of the distinguished landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted, Jr. and granddaughter of the founder of landscape architecture in the United States, Frederick Law Olmsted, who designed Central Park in New
 LIVINGSTON--Lois. Lois Livingston passed away on New Year's Day. Her passing was peaceful and without pain. She has left behind a legacy of love, kindness and generosity. A memorial gathering will be held in New York in the spring. Donations in her memory can be made to Donate Life America,
 LUTTINGER--Evelyn, after 97 remarkable years, died peacefully in Florida on December 17, 2006. She lived a long, diverse and fruitful life, vital in mind and spirit to the end. Her daughter and son, Jayne and Nicholas, rejoice in her life and mourn her passing as do her many friends and fam
 LYNCH--Sylvia Maitland, long time Lawrence resident. On January 5, 2007. Wife of the late G. Philip Lynch, beloved mother of Petria Fossel, Maitland Horner, Mac Horner, and the late Sandy baker, also survived by 9 grandchildren, 3 sisters, Helen Corroon, Andree Dean, Nancy Ijams, and her br
 MATOS--Milagros. Honorable Milagros ''Millie'' A. Matos of New York City died on December 26, 2006, at the age of 56. She was born in the Dominican Republic on May 12, 1950, and immigrated to New York City at nine years. She received her law degree from Brooklyn Law School in 1982 and was a
 MATTHEWS--Helen Thompson of Wellesley, MA died Thursday, January 4, 2007. Born in Bath, Maine on September 19, 1917, she was the daughter of Helen and Harold Thompson. She graduated from Brunswick High School in Maine and Wellesley College, Class of 1939. She resided in Port Washington, New
 RATTET--Elaine. The attornies and staff of Rattet, Pasternak, & Gordon Oliver, LLP, mourn the untimely passing of Elaine Rattet, beloved wife of our senior partner Bob Rattet. Her warm smile and her laugh are forever etched in our minds. May she rest in peace. Attornies and staff of Rattet,
 SESKIS--Barbara, on January 5th, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Alan. Loving mother of Terry and Scott. Caring mother in law of Jill and grandson Ian. She had an inimitable creative drive, a discerning eye, and a passion for art. Her strong spirit will be deeply missed by her family and fri
 WEINSTEIN--Joyce. On December 31 at the age of 94. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Harry Weinstein. She was deeply loved and will be missed by her children Trudy and Herb Lichtenberg, grandchildren Scott and Lucy, Michael and Lisa and greatgrandchildren Andrew, Carolyn, Claudia, Lauren, and Em
 ROTHENBUECHER-Beatrice M., age 93, died December 30th in Manhattan. She had a career in documentary film making and public information. In the early sixties, she became an associate of the Film and Broadcasting Commission of the National Council of Churches of Christ. For the past years she
 FARKAS--Elisabeth (Lily), nee Princess zu HohenloheOehringen, has died. She is survived by her husband Jnos, her daughter Alexandra, her brother Kraft Prince zu Hohenlohe-Oehringen, her sister Alexandra Hilz, and her sister Princess Dagmar zu Hohenlohe-Oehringen. A memorial service will be 
 GINGOLD--Muriel (nee Holler), passed away peacefully Saturday evening at the age of 85 years old. She was an angel right here on earth. She was very cheritable, kind and always willing to help, and particularly compassioate and understanding. She absolutely and unconditionally loved all of 
 KORS--Frances. Wife, friend and companion to Murray, beloved mother of Robert, Geoffrey and Stacey, and adored grandmother of Annie, Matthew and Laura, died on January 7, 2007, after a courageous battle with ALS. She is also survived by her brother, Harvey Biala. Funeral services will be he
 LUTTINGER--Evelyn, after 97 remarkable years, died peacefully in Florida on December 17, 2006. She lived a long, diverse and fruitful life, vital in mind and spirit to the end. Her daughter and son, Jayne and Nicholas, rejoice in her life and mourn her passing as do her many friends and fam
 LYNCH--Sylvia Maitland, long time Lawrence resident. On January 5, 2007. Wife of the late G. Philip Lynch, beloved mother of Petria Fossel, Maitland Horner, Mac Horner, and the late Sandy baker, also survived by nine grandchildren, three sisters, her twin Helen Corroon, Andree Dean, Nancy I
 ROWEN--Dr. Ruth Halle. Born 1918, Professor Emeritus at CUNY, passed away on January 5, following a severe stroke. One of the first graduates (1948) of the doctoral program of musicology at Columbia University, she wrote several books, designed the graduate program in musicology at CCNY, an
 SZARKOWSKI--Jill Anson, architect and preservationist, died in her sleep in her New York apartment on the night of December 29th. Mrs. Szarkowski was born in New York in 1933 and educated at the Rose Haven School, The Brearley School, Abbot Academy, Radcliffe College, and Harvard University
 Ruthanna Boris, a versatile dancer and choreographer who was the first American ballerina to be a star of one of the prestigious Ballets Russes troupes of the 40's, died Friday at her home in El Cerrito, Calif. She was 88. The cause was cancer, said Amanda Vaill, a dance writer and 
 EINSIEDLER--Edith, 83, formerly of Yonkers, NY, on January 7, 2007. Predeceased by her beloved husband Samuel, and her brother Max Gorenstein. Survived by her daughter Arleen Levin (Jeffrey), brother Sydney, and grandson Jonathan.       
 GINGOLD--Muriel (nee Holler), passed away peacefully Saturday evening at the age of 85 years old. She was an angel right here on earth. She was very cheritable, kind and always willing to help, and particularly compassioate and understanding. She absolutely and unconditionally loved all of 
 KORS--Frances. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heart felt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Greatneck. Howard A. Stecker, Senior Rabbi. Hon. Richard Kestenbaum, President.       
 ROSENFIELD--Helen Anna, of Brooklyn, New York, died peacefully on Sunday, January 7, 2007 at the age of 95 . She was predeceased by her husband Harry in 1969. She is survived by her son Stephen Rosenfield and his wife Riva Rosenfield, her daughter Mimi Meyers and husband, Gary Mangus, her f
 ROWEN--Ruth Halle. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its member, Mrs. Ruth Halle Rowen. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graber, President       
 RUBACK--Ruth, on January 7, 2007, beloved wife of the late Robert. Devoted mother of Marsha, Karen and Mark, cherished Nanny of Erica and Dana. Loving sister of Florence Dornfeld. Services Wednesday, 12 noon at ''Gutterman's Inc.'' 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Center, LI. In lieu of flowe
 Jane Bolin, whose appointment as a family court judge by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1939 made her the first black woman in the United States to become a judge, died on Monday in Queens. She was 98 and lived in Long Island City, Queens. Her death was announced by her son, Yorke 
 BASSUK--Rose (nee Zellner) died peacefully January 3, at 92 years. Attitude is everything, she said, and do your best. This is how she lived. Hardships like polio didn't stop her. She connected with all kinds of people and impacted them with her zest, drive, thirst for learning, gracious sp
 FEIWEL--Sadie. The congregation of The East 55th Street Conservative Synagogue expresses its condolences to the family of Sadie Feiwel, a true ''eshes chayiel''. A long-time active member and Trustee of our congregation, Sadie brought unique grace to our synagogue. She was esteemed and love
 FRIEDMAN--Martha, died on Wednesday January 3rd, 2007, at Mt. Sinai Medical Center in NYC at the age of 91. The cause of death was a heart attack according to her daughter, Dr. Joann Urquhart. Dr. Friedman was a psychotherapist with a private practice which she maintained until she was 90 y
 KIMBALL--Katherine Elizabeth, of New York, died on January 3, 2007. She was 61 years old. Ms. Kimball was born in Denison, IA, and grew up in Manhasset, NY. She attended the School of the Holy Child, in Suffern, NY, and Connecticut College for Women. Over a long career in advertising, she w
 LE WINTER--HARRIET Congregation Sons of Israel, Woodmere, records with sorrow the passing of its member and extends condolences to the bereaved family. Bruce Ginsburg, Rabbi Dr. Saul I. Teplitz, Rabbi Emeritus Sherry T. Bloom, President $(6$)LeWINTER--Harriet J. on January 9th, 2007
 McDONOUGH--Sr. Mary Rosaria, O.P. at Rosary Hill Home in Hawthorne, on January 6, 2007. Born January 31, 1910 in County Longford, Ireland. Sr. Mary Rosaria, O.P. made First Profession on September 14, 1948 and Final Profession on September 14, 1952. Sr. Rosaria is survived by her sister Kit
 RESNICK--Mildred. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Staff of Temple Israel of the City of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Mildred Resnick, mother of Michele Cohen, a devoted member of our congregation. We extend our sincerest condolences to Michele and her husband, Martin Co
 ROSENFIELD--Helen Anna, of Brooklyn, New York, died peacefully on Sunday, January 7, 2007 at the age of 95 . She was predeceased by her husband Harry in 1969. She is survived by her son Stephen Rosenfield and his wife Riva Rosenfield, her daughter Mimi Meyers and husband, Gary Mangus, her f
 RUBACK--Ruth, on January 7, 2007, beloved wife of the late Robert. Devoted mother of Marsha, Karen and Mark, cherished Nanny of Erica and Dana. Loving sister of Florence Dornfeld. Services Wednesday, 12 noon at ''Gutterman's Inc.'' 175 Long Beach Road, Rockville Center, LI. In lieu of flowe
 RUGGLES--Ruth Cain. Mrs. Ruggles, age 93, of Lost Tree Village, North Palm Beach, Florida passed away peacefully at home on Sunday, January 7, 2007. She was the daughter of the late Rolly M. Cain and Dercy Myers Cain, and resided in Wilmette, Illinois before moving to Palm Beach. Mrs. Ruggl
 TOLKSDORF--Simone Stakolt, remember her as she was, sensitive, vivacious, quick-witted, and loving. She was born in Russia, educated in Poland and France, and orphaned in Warsaw in September, 1939. She obtained a degree in political science at the Louvre. Emigrating to the United States in 
 VLADECK--Judith P. Died in NYC on January 8th. A pioneering advocate for the rights of women, minorities, older workers, and all working people. She was a founding partner of the law firm of Vladeck, Waldman, Elias and Engelhard. A 1947 graduate of Columbia Law School, shewas the widow of S
 Judith P. Vladeck, a prominent labor lawyer and ardent advocate of women's rights in the workplace, particularly on college campuses, died on Monday in Manhattan. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan. Her death was confirmed by her son Bruce. Proud of her courtroom contentiousn
 Maureen Orcutt, one of the nation's outstanding golfers for almost a half-century and one of the first women to become a sportswriter, died Tuesday in Durham, N.C. She was 99. Her death was confirmed by her lawyer, Richard Hatch. Starting in 1922, Orcutt won more than 65 maj
 COHEN--Gertrude. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its member Gertrude Cohen. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graber, President       
 KOO--Renee, on January 8, 2007. Beloved sister of Richard, sister-in-law of Karenne, and aunt of Derrick and Daryn. Caring and devoted daughter of Edith Koo and Freeman Koo. Loved and admired by her extended family and many friends. Renee had a BA from Barnard College, a Masters in Library 
 LIBERMAN--Pearl. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Brooklyn Museum record with deep sorrow the passing of our Trustee and great friend, Pearl Liberman, and extend our deepest sympathy to her family and friends. We are grateful for her devoted service as a Trustee since 1974 and a membe
 MURPHY--Catherine Farrell, of New York, NY, died on Tuesday, January 9, 2007, in Boca Raton, FL, with her beloved husband, Bill, at her side. She was 77. She is survived by her husband, William Debar Murphy, her daughter, Susan Murphy Ferrand, and her son, Anthony Murphy; five grandchildren
 POWERS--Helen F. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and colleague, Helen Powers. Helen played a formative role at Greenwich House as the camp administrator for 25 years, providing summertime experiences for thousands of children. She and her husband, Maxwell Powers, the age
 VLADECK--Judith P. Died in NYC on January 8th. A pioneering advocate for the rights of women, minorities, older workers, and all working people. She was a founding partner of the law firm of Vladeck, Waldman, Elias and Engelhard. A 1947 graduate of Columbia Law School, she was the widow of 
 Roberta Wohlstetter, a military and foreign policy analyst whose work on the intelligence failures before the attack on Pearl Harbor was cited by the 9/11 commission, died on Saturday in Manhattan. She was 94. The cause was pneumonia, said her daughter, Joan Wohlstetter-Hall.       
 Yvonne De Carlo, a dark-haired Hollywood beauty who advanced from the chorus line to play Moses' wife in a movie epic but who achieved her greatest popularity as Lily in the CBS television sitcom ''The Munsters,'' died on Monday in Los Angeles. She was 84. The cause was heart failur
 Maureen Orcutt, one of the nation's outstanding golfers for almost a half-century and one of the first women to become a sportswriter, died Tuesday in Durham, N.C. She was 99. Her death was confirmed by her lawyer, Richard Hatch. Starting in 1922, Orcutt won more than 65 maj
 KOO--Renee, on January 8, 2007. Beloved sister of Richard, sister-in-law of Karenne, and aunt of Derrick and Daryn. Caring and devoted daughter of Edith Koo and Freeman Koo. Loved and admired by her extended family and many friends. Renee had a BA from Barnard College, a Masters in Library 
 LEICHTLING--Selma Roslyn, wife of the late Dr. Julius J. Leichtling, passed away peacefully at her home. Graduating from Vassar College, she became a life long devotee of the theatre as a casting agent, producer and executive administrator of the Actors Studio, New York, in its heyday. She 
 LIBERMAN--Pearl, 91, of Bal Harbour, Florida, died on January 9, 2007. She was the beloved wife of the late Dr. George Liberman; loving mother of Ellen Goldschild (David) and David Liberman (Marie); cherished grandmother of Michael and Noah; dear sister of Morton (Robin) Cooper; the late Si
 MURPHY--Catherine Farrell, of New York, NY, died on Tuesday, January 9, 2007, in Boca Raton, FL, with her beloved husband, Bill, at her side. She was 77. She is survived by her husband, William Debar Murphy, her daughter, Susan Murphy Ferrand, and her son, Anthony Murphy; five grandchildren
 PERSE--Judy R., of the 400 block of West End Avenue, died peacefully, Tuesday, January 9, 2007, in a New York hospital. She was a native of Norfolk, VA, and was the daughter of the late Aaron and Katheryn Citron Reingold. She is survived by her loving husband Larry Perse of New York City, N
 ROBBINS--Phyllis. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Phyllis Robbins. To her family and loved ones we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Rabbi David M. Posne
 ROEDER--Dorothy F. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Dorothy Roeder, our deepest sympathies on the occasion of her passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to her life. May all who loved her
 VLADECK--Judith, was an icon, esteemed labor lawyer, and feisty, spirited woman who was an early champion of employment rights for women. She was there for us and the women we serve at Nontraditional Employment for Women (NEW) from the beginning, and we are forever indebted to her. NEW name
 COLLINS--Helen W. The Board of Directors of the Stuyvesant Cove Park Association, Inc. mourns the passing of our beloved and devoted board member Helen. She was instrumental in the successful effort to fight the development known as Riverwalk and to replace it with our park which she called
 COPLON--Nancy, Zeiler. January 11th, 2007. Beloved mother of Benjamin and Jonathan, loving daughter of Norman and Miriam Zeiler. Her strength and spirit will be deeply missed and never forgotten. Memorial Service Monday January 15, 11:30am at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St. 
 KELLMAN--Claire, on January 12th, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Richard (Bubala). Loving mother of Sandra Cohen, David and Janet. Dear sister of Elly Bernstein. Adoring grandmother of Ali and Reyna. She will always live in our hearts. Service Sunday 11:45am at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. a
 MURPHY--Catherine Farrell of New York, NY, passed gentle into that good night on Tuesday, January 9, 2007, in Boca Raton, FL, with her beloved husband, Bill, at her side. She was 77. She was born on March 30, 1929, in New York City. She attended St. Jean Baptiste School on East 75th Street,
 VLADECK--Judith. An unflagging advocate, she was also was a superb teacher and mentor. She taught us how to reason, how to fight, and the importance of practicing law with passion and grace. Our condolences to the Vladeck family, especially to Anne, Bruce, and David. Christopher D. Berner C
 WALSH--Annmarie, died January 11th, 2007. Survived by husband John F. Walsh, her son Peter, her daughter-inlaw Kimberly, her grandchildren, Oscar, Eloise, her sister Jean H. Wiley, her niece Tricia Deans. Her children Caroline, James, and David predeceased her. Annmarie graduated from the M
 SKLAR - JACKSON--Isabel, died suddenly at her home in Alpine, New Jersey, on January 11, 2007. Isabel was a New York and New Jersey psychotherapist. She is survived by her loving husband, Fred Jackson, her brothers, Jay and Michael Sklar, grandchildren, nephews, nieces, and scores of friend
 COPLON--Nancy. We are deeply saddened by the death of our cousin Nancy Coplon on January 11th, 2007. She was a devoted and loving mother to her sons Ben and Jon, and a wonderful, kind, and gallant soul. We will miss and love her always. She enhanced our lives. Eve France and Howard Maisel, 
 FRIEDMAN--Martha, died on Wednesday January 3rd, 2007, at Mt. Sinai Medical Center in NYC at the age of 91. The cause of death was a heart attack according to her daughter, Dr. Joann Urquhart. Dr. Friedman was a psychotherapist with a private practice which she maintained until she was 90 y
 GROVEMAN--Marilyn Astor, of Scarsdale, NY, and Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife to the late Aaron Groveman, died peacefully Friday morning, January 5, 2007, in Boca Raton, FL, at the age of 74. Marilyn is survived by her daughter Nancy, her two sons, Alex and David, her daughter Jane, close fam
 GRUNSCHLAG--Toni, on January 12th after a heroic ten year struggle with cancer, devoted daughter of the late Morris and the late Celia. Beloved sister of Rosi, and the late David. Loving cousin of Rose Levy. Toni was a renowned concert pianist and teacher with her sister Rosi, she performed
 HOUGH--Frances. Died January 8 at 91 in Tucson. She Lived in NYC most of her career in fashion advertising. After graduating from the University of Iowa as a Journalism major, she was fashion copy chief at Bloomingdale's and copy editor of Vogue Patterns and Knitting Magazines. Fran leaves 
 JAFFE--Edith, 82, of New York City on January 10, 2007, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Morris Jaffe; sister of the late Sylvia Buchsbaum and the late Sol Kornhauser. She is survived by her cousins Charlotte Korn hauser, Selma Levine, Janice Levine and Vicki Friedman as well
 KELLMAN--Claire, on January 12th, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Richard (Bubala). Loving mother of Sandra Cohen, David and Janet. Dear sister of Elly Bernstein. Adoring grandmother of Ali and Reyna. She will always live in our hearts. Service Sunday 11:45am at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. a
 LEPORE--Eleanor (Eda) nee Scoppa, on January 12, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Pietro. Devoted mother of Alfred, Annamaria Ronconi and the late Anthony. Dear mother-in-law of Mary Louise, Angelo and Adeline. Loving grandmother of Peter Lepore, Eleanor Androulidakis, Adeline Sessa, Louise L
 MURPHY--Catherine Farrell of New York, NY, passed gentle into that good night on Tuesday, January 9, 2007, in Boca Raton, FL, with her beloved husband, Bill, at her side. She was 77. She was born on March 30, 1929, in New York City. She attended St. Jean Baptiste School on East 75th Street,
 PORTE--Eunice, May 21, 1932 to January 2, 2007. Loving mother, sister, teacher, mentor, world-traveler, watercolorist, friend, and wife of Dr. Daniel Porte Jr. Regarded as a great friend and story-teller, she will be missed by friends and family worldwide. A tribute will be held in La Jolla
 ROEDER--Dorothy (nee Friedman). Died peacefully at home in her 90th year surrounded by love. Darling daughter of the late Rena F. and Stanleigh P. Friedman. Dear sister of Dr. Edward W. Friedman and the late Mary F. Schwartzreich. Beloved wife of over 60 years to the late Martin A. Roeder. 
 VLADECK--Judith P. It is with profound sadness that we mourn the passing of our beloved Senior Partner, Judith P. Vladeck. Mrs. Vladeck was a pioneer for justice in the workplace and a true giant of the profession. In the course of her 60 year career, Mrs. Vladeck handled many benchmark cas
 BRUCKENTHAL--Elaine died on January 9th, 2007. Beloved wife of Rudy. Devoted mother of Eric and Patricia and Steven and Ellen. Cherished grandmother of Noabeth, Matthew, Michael, Ryan, Patricia and her late husband Nathan. Loving Great-grandmother of Harper. Cherished sister of Barbara Klei
 DEUTSCH--Charlotte, 93, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Roslyn Harbor and Great Neck, NY, died peacefully last week surrounded by loving family members. Charlotte was devoted to her cherished late husband, Jack; her beloved daughters, Abby Fink and Janet Zilin; her adored grandchildren of
 LAUDENSLAGER -- Pauline A., on January 5, 2007, in New York City. Wife of Richard L. Laudenslager of Worcester, PA (d. 1950), daughter of Minnie and Austin Fleming, she was born in Elk Garden, West Virginia. She graduated from Barnard College, NYC, in 1940. Her M.A. from Northeastern Illino
 SKLAR - JACKSON--Isabel, died suddenly at her home in Alpine, New Jersey, on January 11, 2007. Isabel was a New York and New Jersey psychotherapist. She is survived by her loving husband, Fred Jackson, her brothers, Jay and Michael Sklar, grandchildren, nephews, nieces, and scores of friend
 Alice Coltrane, widow of the jazz saxophonist John Coltrane and the pianist in his later bands, who extended her musical searches into a vocation as a spiritual leader, died on Friday in Los Angeles. She was 69. The cause was respiratory failure, said Marilyn McLeod, her sister and 
 Dora E. McDonald, who served as secretary and confidante to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in the most turbulent years of the civil rights movement, died on Saturday. She was 81. The cause was complications from cancer, said the Rev. Betsy Lunz, the minister of pastoral care at
 BELL--Miriam. The Manhattan Graphics Center membership mourns the loss of our vital founding member, inspired print maker, and loving friend. Art was her life.       
 GRUNSCHLAG--Toni, on January 12th after a heroic ten year struggle with cancer, devoted daughter of the late Morris and the late Celia. Beloved sister of Rosi, and the late David. Loving cousin of Rose Levy. Toni was a renowned concert pianist and teacher with her sister Rosi, she performed
 KAUFMAN--Marilyn, 80, of Marlboro, NJ, died January 14, 2007 at home. Born and raised in Brooklyn, NY, Mrs. Kaufman lived in Goshen, NY for eight years before moving to Marlboro six years ago. She was the devoted wife of Joseph I. Kaufman, who died in 2004. They had been married for 54 year
 LASKER--Miriam P., 90, died January 12th, 2007. She was the widow of Rabbi Arnold A. Lasker. Surviving her are Dr. Judith Lasker, Dr. Daniel Lasker, and family. She was preceded in death by her son Joseph Lasker.       
 PORTE--Eunice, May 21, 1932 to January 2, 2007. Loving mother, sister, teacher, mentor, world-traveler, watercolorist, friend, and wife of Dr. Daniel Porte Jr. Regarded as a great friend and story-teller, she will be missed by friends and family worldwide. A tribute will be held in La Jolla
 ROEDER--Dorothy (nee Friedman). Died peacefully at home in her 90th year surrounded by love. Darling daughter of the late Rena F. and Stanleigh P. Friedman. Dear sister of Dr. Edward W. Friedman and the late Mary F. Schwartzreich. Beloved wife of over 60 years to the late Martin A. Roeder. 
 RUBIN--Sylvia Seiderman, 94, our mother and wife, died on January 13, 2007 in Miami Beach, Florida. Born in Brooklyn, she was the daughter of the late prominent Brooklyn Democratic leader and lawyer, Samuel Seiderman and his wife Ella. In dying as in life, she was a woman of remarkable stre
 VLADECK--Judith The Board of Directors and Officers of Group Health Inc. expresses our deepest simply to the Vladeck family upon Judith's passing. She will be remembered as an advocate for the rights of women, minorities and the labor movement. Frank J. Branchini Chief Executive Officer Gro
 SHAPIRO - MIRITELLO--Rica, died January 12th, 2007. Survived by devoted husband Joseph, her beloved daughter Alex, mother Hermine Hoffman, father Ralph Shapiro, brothers Peter Shapiro and Jonathan Francis. Funeral 10am Monday (today), Edwards - Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave., Dobbs Fe
 Anne Ophelia Todd Dowden, a renowned and popular botanical artist whose subjects ranged from the flowers found in Shakespeare to the weeds found in New York City, died Thursday in Boulder, Colo. She was 99. Her death was announced by Martha Hutchinson, a cousin. Ms. Dowden w
 KASHINS--Laura, died peacefully Saturday January 13th at the age of 1031/2. Predeceased by husbands Herman Kashins and Michael Reiburn. Survived by daughter Barbara Moore, grand daughters Robin and Rebecca Moore, great-grandaughter Irene MacDonald. Donations can be made in her memory to the
 NEWLON--Suzanne J. On January 14, 2007, of Waccabuc, New York. Beloved wife of the late Paul J. Devoted mother of James M. III, Geoff and Joan M. Dodge, dear Sister of Joan Connelly, also survived by five grandchildren. A memorial Mass will be held on Wednesday, January 17, in St. Mary of t
 PORTE--Eunice, May 21, 1932 to January 2, 2007. Loving mother, sister, teacher, mentor, world-traveler, watercolorist, friend, and wife of Dr. Daniel Porte Jr. Regarded as a great friend and story-teller, she will be missed by friends and family worldwide. A tribute will be held in La Jolla
 STEVENS--Marcia Ennise, 88, of North Branford and Madison, Connecticut died January 10, 2007. She is survived by her husband John B. Stevens, four children, nine grandchildren and one great-grandchild. An accomplished pianist, Marcia founded New Havens Foundry Music Co. in 1975 and in 1998 
 WEINSTEIN--Moe, 94, of Mount Vernon, NY on January 13th, 2007. Cherished and devoted husband of Susan for over 59 years. Beloved father of Joan and her husband William Pettis. Loving brother of Shirley, dear uncle to Jackie and Richard, Roberta and Joel, Linda and Mel, Lewis and Joanne. Gra
 BROZ--Ida, Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York, records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member, Ida Broz. To her family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mourn her passing. Rabbi David M. Posner Marcia Wax
 BRUNO--Rose (nee Pellicci) age 83, died on January 10, 2007 in Bronxville, NY after a brief illness. She was the dear mother of Music Director and co-owner of The Lester Lanin Orchestra, Spencer Bruno (and Alice); Stephen (and Robin), Peter, Thomas, and Christine, beloved grandmother of Mar
 CURLEY--Jane. The partners and staff of Goldfarb & Fleece express our profound sadness on the passing of our good friend and colleague, Jane Curley. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. $(6$)CURLEY--Jane. Jack Rudin, the entire Rudin family and all of Rudin Management Company 
 FOLEY--Regula (nee von Muralt), 73, died peacefully January 7th, in Glen Cove Hospital. Born in Switzerland, she came to the US as a young woman and became a UN interpreter. She spoke six languages. Later she became a licensed tour guide for the City of New York, and a real estate broker fo
 GAFFNEY--Mary Catherine on January 14, 2007. Survived by her beloved husband, Bernard, her eight loving children, and three siblings.       
 GRIFFITHS--Donna Marie. Donna Marie Griffiths passed away at Stamford Hospital on January 15, 2007, at the age of 65. Daughter of the late John and Sadie Marchyn, beloved wife of Anthony, sister to Judy Marchyn, loving mother of Monique Girard and Brigitte King, grandmother of Celine, Chloe
 HOLZWORTH--Jean, D.V.M., a long-time resident ar Lake Waramaug, New Preston, CT, died on January 13, 2007. Born March 26, 1915 in Port Chester, NY, she attended Greenwich Academy and Bryn Mawr College (A.B., M.A., and Pd.D. in Latin). A beloved cat's death in 1943 from panleukopenia, a leth
 KRETCHMER--Alma Massetti, 58, born in Brescia, Italy, died January 10, 2007 in Palenville, New York, after a lengthy battle with breast cancer. She lived with a passion for life and beauty. She was a very special, courageous, and dynamic person, a woman of vision and valor. She worked toget
 MILLER--Elizabeth W. (Jody), age 82, of New Vernon, NJ, died at home on December 29, 2006. She was predeceased by her loving husband, Hasbrouck B. Miller. She will be deeply missed by her daughters, Kimberly Miller, Stacey Miller, Sloan Simmons and her husband Hardwick; and her son Hasbrouc
 SONENTHAL--Sylvia. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Sylvia Sonenthal, and extends heartfelt sympathy to her daughter, Lisa Cohen, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Liz Kislik, President       
 Betty Trezza, who at 17 escaped her job as a Garment District embroiderer to play women's professional baseball and went on to smack a memorable championship-winning hit, died Tuesday in the Brooklyn house where she was born. She was 82. The cause was a heart attack, her nephew Jan 
 CURLEY--Jane. The Partners and staff of Milton N. Hoffman Company express their deep sorrow over the loss of our dear friend and colleague. Sincere condolences to her family. $(6$)CURLEY--Jane A. suddenly on January 14, 2007. Devoted daughter of the late Robert and Katherine (Murphy
 GOODMAN--Diane Allan Goodman, age 77 of Pine Tree Lane in Albany died Tuesday January 16, 2007 at the Albany Medical Center from emphysema. Mrs. Goodman was born in NYC and was a graduate of the Dalton School, Wellesley College, and Albany Law School. She was an attorney and had been employ
 HABER--Mitzi R., 92, of Yorktown Heights, NY, passed away peacefully on January 9th, 2007. She is survived by her daughter, Deborah Fernandez of Cary, NC, and her son, Mark Haber of New York, NY and Tokyo, Japan.       
 TOWBIN--Adele May. Beloved Adele died on January 9, age 90. Professionally, Adele taught Physical education at Erasmus Hall High School and served as its department chair in the l960s. She graduated from Brooklyn College in l937 and recieved the Post 50th Lifetime Achievement and Milton Fis
 WOHL--Ivy. How very sad we are by the untimely death of our precious friend Ivy. We loved her and enjoyed so many memorable times together. To her beloved husband, our Rabbi Amiel Wohl, to her children, Dr. John Feder and his wife Dr. Annette Cohen, Daniel Feder, Beatrice Niv, and husband O
 BERRY--Dorothy M., 87, died January 14th 2007, widow of Dr. Edgar Berry. She was a retired Navy Lieutenant, 1941 Radcliffe graduate, past president of the Lenox Hill Hospital Women's Auxiliary and past president of the New York State A.M.A. Auxiliary. She is survived by two children, Dr. Wi
 DeBEAR--Dorothy. Beloved daughter of Irene and Arthur Cohen. Missed by her cousins Robert E. and Rick Cohen and Meta Lee, caregivers Gloria Roberts and Carmen Luciano, and anyone who knows never to give up on a life. Services at St. James Church, Madison Ave and 71st St., Saturday 1:30pm Pr
 MARCOCCIO--Lucy, (nee Lizzio), born June 15, 1923 in New York City, passed away on January 15, 2007. She was the beloved wife of the late Joseph Marcoccio of Catania, Italy. Lucy was an extensive world traveler and she loved the opera and ballet. She is survived by her younger sister, Angel
 NEARY--Eileen C (nee Twomey) Lady of the Holy Sepulchre, of Demarest NJ on January 18, 2007. Beloved wife of James (Seamus) Neary. Devoted mother of Patrick, Una, Ann Marie and Eileen. Cherished Nana of Briana, Ryan, Sofia, Daniel, Gavin and Matthew. Dear sister of Father Dermot Twomey, Ver
 WEICHSEL--Leo, we mourn the loss of Leo Weischel, our thoughts and prayers are with Marion Sussman and her family. Elaine, Barry, and Daniel $(6$)WEICHSEL--Lothar, on January 18, 2007 at age 95. Lived life to the fullest. You will be missed. Beloved husband of the late Doris. Father
 WOHL--Ivy. How very sad we are by the untimely death of our precious friend Ivy. We loved her and enjoyed so many memorable times together. To her beloved husband, our Rabbi Amiel Wohl, to her children, Dr. John Feder and his wife Dr. Annette Cohen, Daniel Feder, Beatrice Niv, and husband O
 MURASKIN--Jean, 94 years old, beloved wife of the late Abraham. Beloved mother of Matthew Muraskin and Gail Forrester. Adoring grandmother of Kevin Forrester and Allison, Amy Forrester and Dr. Paul Fronstin, Seth Muraskin and Stacy, Craig Muraskin and Savet Constantine, Tracy Birkhahn and T
 TUMKOVSKY--Antonina. The entire School of American Ballet family deeply mourns the death of Antonina Tumkovsky; we shall all miss her indomitable spirit. Tumey was a favorite teacher at the School for more than fifty years. Her daily classes were exacting and exhausting, speedy and precise,
 Maj-Britt Nilsson, a Swedish movie actress of the 1940s and '50s who starred in three of Ingmar Bergman's early films, died on Dec. 19 in Cannes, France. She was 82. Ms. Nilsson's death, which was not widely reported outside Sweden, was confirmed by Jon Asp, executive editor of the 
 BAUMWELL--Anita, on January 18th. Beloved wife of the late Earl Baumwell. Devoted mother to Jed, Peter, Lisa and mother-in-law to Gail, Lori, Eric. Loving bubbie to Ivan, Amanda, Jared, Leah, Jana, Amie. She was adored and will be greatly missed. Funeral services will be private.       
 COPPOLA--Rosanne F., a banker who was Global Head of Citibank's worldwide corporate lending and syndications, died January 17 at her home in Jackson, Wyoming. She was 56. Mrs. Coppola began her career at Citibank in 1970 as a clerk in the retail banking branch system, and her professional a
 FREEDMAN--Doris Rosenblum, of Lauderhill, FL, and formerly of West Orange, NJ, beloved wife of Bernard, mother of Steven (Lee) and Grace (Oz), grandmother of Tom, Adam and Amos, sister of Miriam Friedman and the late Leonard Rosenblum and Pauline Gruhin, and dear aunt of many nieces and nep
 HALLIGAN--Theresa, Ph.D, died on January 19, 2007, at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx, New York, after suffering a stroke this past December. Dr. Halligan, 80, was a long-time resident of Ridgefield Park, New Jersey. A Requiem Mass will be held for Dr. Halligan on Monday, January 22, 2007 at 
 HANDLER--Frances R., age 93. Beloved mother, mother in-law, grandmother, greatgrandmother, sister. Passed away surrounded with love, adornment, support and comfort. Her memories will live on forever. Rest in peace. Graveside service at Beth Moses Cemetery, Monday, January 22, 2007, at 10 AM
 KING--Maxine (Macky) B., age 91, died peacefully at home in Topsham, ME, on January 17, surrounded by family and friends. For 58 years she was director of Camp Fernwood for Girls, begun in 1921 by her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Julius Bluhm. Active in the American Camping Association; served as 
 KIRKLAND--Barbara Doane. January 9th, 2007, after a brief illness. Loving wife of Russell Kirkland and Norman Myers. Devoted mother of Carol Kirkland and Robert Myers, cherished grandmother of Elizabeth and Colleen Myers. Beloved aunt of Priscilla and Pamela Doane. She will be deeply missed
 KOSARIN--Rhoda, 74, died after a long struggle with breast and uterine cancer. She will be remembered by her daughters Barbara, Julie, and Janie, her granddaughter Miranda, nephews Bruce and Gordon, ex-husband Norman. Go For Genetic Testing And Fight Back.       
 KRAUS--Janet Hoenig, born in The Bronx, passed away peacefully at her home in Houston, Texas on January 11, 2007. She is survived by her husband of 65 years, Phil; daughters Beth Johnstone (Edwin), Suzanne May (Don); grandchildren Andy Turboff (Amy), Jeff Turboff, Alexa May and Chloe May; a
 KRETCHMER--Alma Massetti, 58, born in Brescia, Italy, died January 10, 2007 in Palenville, New York, after a lengthy battle with breast cancer. She lived with a passion for life and beauty. She was a very special, courageous, and dynamic person, a woman of vision and valor. She worked toget
 LUDWIG--Hildegard (nee Arnheim), on January 17, of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved wife of the late Louis Ludwig, D.D.S. Survived by her children, Mark and Vicky and four grandchildren. Services will be private.       
 NEARY--Eileen C (nee Twomey) Lady of the Holy Sepulchre, of Demarest NJ on January 18, 2007. Beloved wife of James (Seamus) Neary. Devoted mother of Patrick, Una, Ann Marie and Eileen. Cherished Nana of Briana, Ryan, Sofia, Daniel, Gavin and Matthew. Dear sister of Father Dermot Twomey, Ver
 PERLOFF--Sondra, 78, born and raised in New York City, died Thursday, January 18, at her home in Longboat Key, Florida. She was married to Milton Perloff in 1949, and raised three daughters. After her children were grown, she and her husband moved to Sarasota in 1977. Sandy is survived by t
 SANDS--Willa (Schifter), of The Happy Hour Show, died of cancer and is survived by her sister Linda Spatz.       
 SCHMIDT--Jeanne Ursula, age 80, died January 8th in Sarasota, Florida after a long, heroic fight against lung cancer. Quintessential New Yorker, stockbroker, equestrienne, and composer, she leaves Bertha Davis and legions of loving friends.       
 TUMKOVSKY--Antonina. The entire School of American Ballet family deeply mourns the death of Antonina Tumkovsky; we shall all miss her indomitable spirit. Tumey was a favorite teacher at the School for more than fifty years. Her daily classes were exacting and exhausting, speedy and precise,
 Mary Stolz, a noted author for children and adolescents whose novels earned critical praise for the seriousness with which they took the problems of young people, died on Dec. 15 at her home in Longboat Key, Fla. She was 86. Ms. Stolz died of natural causes, her son, William B. Stol
 GANDLE--Julia Ann, 46, died peacefully in her home in Manhattan on January 20, after a courageous battle with cancer. She leaves behind three siblings, Laurie, Saranna and Michael, her mother, Helen, and her beloved cocker spaniel, Joe, as well as many, many dear friends. Julie was a beauti
 LEIBLER--Frieda The Officers, Trustees, and members of the Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the death of Frieda Leibler, beloved mother of our member and past president, Jack Leibler. Our thoughts and prayers are with Jack and Valerie and their family at this painful time. Rabbi Gerald C. S
 NEWMAN--Eva E. (nee Feilchenfeld), on January 21, 2007, peacefully in her own bed after an extraordinarily full and varied life which she enjoyed to the fullest and which she recounted with joy for her enthralled listeners. Born in Berlin to Henry (who died in Bergen Belsen weeks before the
 PERLOFF--Sondra, 78, born and raised in New York City, died Thursday, January 18, at her home in Longboat Key, Florida. She was married to Milton Perloff in 1949, and raised three daughters. After her children were grown, she and her husband moved to Sarasota in 1977. Sandy is survived by t
 WARNER--Winifred Ingraham, died on January 19, 2007. Born October 20, 1913, to Henry Andrews and Mary Shotwell Ingraham of Brooklyn and Northport, NY. Wife of Harold Lawson Warner for 70 years. Also survived by daughter Mary Ann Putnam of Hilton Head, SC, son Thomas S. Warner of Garden City
 GANDLE--Julia Ann, 46, died peacefully in her home in Manhattan on January 20, after a courageous battle with cancer. She leaves behind three siblings, Laurie, Saranna and Michael, her mother, Helen, and her beloved cocker spaniel, Joe, as well as many, many dear friends. Julie was a beauti
 GIFFORD--Harriette Alper, of New York City and Manhasset, NY, died peacefully at home Sunday January 21st, 2007 at age 88. Beloved mother of Richard Perse and Ilsa Perse, loving grandmother of Tobias, Allison, Zoey, cherished mother-in-law of Margie Perse, caring friend and stepmother of Ga
 LOESERMAN--Ruth, 97, died January 19, 2007 in Rockville, MD. Widow of Arthur, beloved mother of Susan (Stanley) Friedman and Amy Loeserman. Grandmother of five, great-grandmother of seven. We will all miss her.       
 SHORE--Toni (nee Stone). January 22, 2007-peacefully after a courageous three year battle with illness. Wonderful wife of Freeman Shore; beloved mother of Peter and Julie Strauss; adored Granny of Charlie and Katie; cherished sister of Carol and Alan Pomerantz; dear sisterin-law of Wini and
 VELAY--Frances A. An engaged philanthropist deeply committed to environmental concerns, particularly conservation of the Oceans and marine life, preservation of endangered species, especially her beloved turtles, and the prevention of cruelty to animals, Frances A. Velay, 92, died peacefull
 WANK--Audrey. September 27th 1929 -January 20th, 2007. Beloved wife, mother, and grandmother. She only knew how to give.       
 Lisa E. Goldberg, president of the Charles H. Revson Foundation, died on Monday in Manhattan. She was 54. The cause was a brain aneurysm, said a spokesman for New York University, of which her husband, John Sexton, is president. In 1982, Ms. Goldberg started as a program off
 BELSKY--Rachel Slatkin, beloved daughter of Solomon and Fannie Slatkin, devoted wife of the late Abraham Belsky and exquisite role model for her daughter, Kitty Belsky Bateman. Her warmth, compassion and enthusiasm will be missed by her entire extended family and friends. Donations in her h
 BEWKES--Marjorie K, 79, of Vero Beach died Saturday January 20th, 2007, at her residence. She was born on September 5th, 1927, in Philadelphia, PA, and moved to Vero Beach 14 years ago from Darien, CT. Mrs. Bewkes graduated magna cum laude from Syracuse University. She was an active boardme
 GOLDBERG--Lisa. The faculty and staff of NYU Medical Center deeply mourn the sudden and untimely passing of Lisa Goldberg, wife of our University President, John Sexton, and extend our heartfelt sympathy to Dr. Sexton and all his family. Kenneth G. Langone Chairman Board of Trustees NYU Med
 ROTHSTEIN--Martha (nee Miller). Beloved wife of the late Murray, cherished mother of Donna Sher (Charles) and Wendy Rothstein and granddaughters Hayley and Mia Sher. Daughter of the late Fanny Miller and Max Miller, adored sister of Eva Schwartz and the late Rose Elmer, Sadie Feldman and Re
 SHORE--Toni. The Trustees and faculty of the Institute for Child, Adolescent & Family Studies mourn the loss of Toni Shore, a courageous woman, a generous benefactor, and the cherished sister of Carol Stone Pomerantz, CSW, a respected colleague and former Trustee of our Board. We extend our
 VELAY--Frances A. An engaged philanthropist deeply committed to environmental concerns, particularly conservation of the Oceans and marine life, preservation of endangered species, especially her beloved turtles, and the prevention of cruelty to animals, Frances A. Velay, 92, died peacefull
 WONG--Yip May Dip (Edna Wong). Born in Toishan, China on December 2nd, 1935. Passed away on January 14, 2007 in Zhuhai, China. She was not only a beloved and devoted wife but also a loving mother and grandmother, a caring sister, and a treasured friend. She is survived by her husband Stephe
 GRUMBACH--Madeleine Francis, died peacefully at home in San Francisco at the age of 86. Born in Tuxedo Park, NY, graduate of CU College of Physicians and Surgeons, child Psychiatrist, lifelong partner of Melvin Grumbach, devoted mother to Ethan, Kevin and Anthony, grandmother of five, siste
 SHNEIDMAN--Dr. Conalee. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our beloved, long-time member, Connie Shneidman, wife of Dr. Lee Shneidman and mother of Philip and Jack. As our first Outreach Chairperson, hers was a warm and welcoming voice to those seeking Jewish community. Our deep
 ANDERSON--Joseph Anthony, died January 14, 2007, of Greenport, NY, formerly of Bridgehampton, NY. Beloved husband of the late Frances Brooke and the late Martha Hartman. Devoted father of Helen Anderson Phinney and her husband, Terry, grandfather of Arthur and Brooke Phinney, brother of Ste
 GOLDBERG--Lisa The Board of Directors and Staff of The Children's Defense Fund acknowledges with profound sorrow the untimely loss of Lisa Goldberg. Lisa was a person of great intelligence, compassion and integrity. She was a role model in her leadership as a philanthropist and person who b
 GOLDMAN--Lorraine. Mommy, you always gave us wings. We love you. Stephanie, Andrew, Justin, Samantha, and Bennett. $(6$)GOLDMAN--Lorraine Ross, beloved daughter of the late Edythe and Dr. Jerome H. Ross, sister of the late Richard Ross. A self-made success at Merrill Lynch, rising t
 GOLDSMITH--Ann Kortlang of Patterson, NY, died peacefully in her sleep on January 21, 2007, at the age of 100. She is survived by her husband of 75 years, S. Delvalle Goldsmith; a son, Stephen Goldsmith; a daughter, Susan Deborah Goldsmith Franz; three grandchildren, Christopher Goldsmith, 
 JOHNSON--Susan B., died peacefully in her sleep at home in Newport, RI on January 22, 2007. She is survived by her two sons, Christo and Jamie Johnson, her daughter-in-law Nichole Johnson, her brothers Jay Baldwin and John C. Moore and her sister Mimi Rosenwald, as well as her mother-in-law
 STEGMANN--Marian A. (nee Palazzo), of Manhattan, passed away suddenly on January 23, 2007, of a brain aneurysm. Nurse practitioner, professor, mother, grandmother, sister, friend Marian, with her gentle yet indomitable spirit, showed us all how to live. Predeceased two years ago by her belo
 WONG--Yip May Dip (Edna Wong). Born in Toishan, China on December 2nd, 1935. Passed away on January 14, 2007 in Zhuhai, China. She was not only a beloved and devoted wife but also a loving mother and grandmother, a caring sister, and a treasured friend. She is survived by her husband Stephe
 ALTERMAN--Phoebe, of Baltimore, MD, previously of New York City, died on January 21, 2007 at age 86. She was the wife of the late Daniel Alterman. She leaves her son Daniel L. Alterman (Li Wah Lai) of NYC, daughter Merry Alterman (Ed Rosenfeld) of Baltimore, four grandchildren and special f
 ASKINAS--Wilma, 85 years old, died on January 24th, 2007. Beloved mother of Barbara and Ira and grandmother of Debra. She was an outstanding tennis player, expert golfer, and talented author. She now joins her dear husband Milton in eternal rest. Services Sunday 11:30am at ''Riverside - Nas
 BERNER--Irene (nee Kaufman) on January 24, 2007, age 90. Beloved wife of the late Michael. Survived by her daughters, Karen Chaitkin and Reina Berner, and her granddaughters, Jennifer and Allison. Graveside services were held.       
 GOLDBERG--Lisa. A steady hand, a generous spirit, and a guiding light-The Covenant Foundation Board and Staff mourn her loss. Our world will be diminished by her absence. With deepest sympathy to her family. Susan Crown, President Harlene Appelman, Executive Director GOLDBERG--Lisa.
 GOLDMAN--Lorraine. Mommy, you always gave us wings. We love you. Stephanie, Andrew, Justin, Samantha, and Bennett. GOLDMAN--Lorraine. Dear Mommy, may you find peace. I love you. Love, Cindy GOLDMAN--Lorraine. Lighthouse International extends our deepest sympathies to Stephan
 KIRKLAND--Irena. The Board of Directors, Overseers and staff of the Internatinal Rescue Committee are saddened by the death of Irena Kirkland, a valued member of our Board since 1981. Mrs. Kirkland, who was herself a refugee from Czechloslovakia, and a survivor of a Nazi concentration camp,
 LOESSER--Hannah, beloved daughter of Broadway composer Frank Loesser and singer Jo Sullivan Loesser, died in New York City Thursday, January 25th, of Cancer. She was 44 years old. Ms. Loesser was an artist of note. Her unique work consisted of oils, pastels and mixed media, ranging from som
 SCHEUER--Emily Malino, died comfortably at home in Washington, DC, among the loving members of her family after a short and valiant battle with leukemia. For over 57 years the beloved wife of the late Congressman James H. Scheuer, Emily shared with him a lifetime commitment to the arts, the
 ALTERMAN--Phoebe, of Baltimore, MD, previously of New York City, died on January 21, 2007 at age 86. She was the wife of the late Daniel Alterman. She leaves her son Daniel L. Alterman (Li Wah Lai) of NYC, daughter Merry Alterman (Ed Rosenfeld) of Baltimore, four grandchildren and special f
 CANTOR--Elaine Yarin, 76, died January 25, in NYC of complications from lymphoma. She lived in Manhattan with her husband, Harold, who survives her. She received her BA from Duke University and taught American History in Utica, NY, for 30 years, winning the accolade Teacher Of The Year and 
 FISHER--Thelma, of New York, passed away peacefully Thursday night at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Harold Fisher, loving and devoted mother of Ann Tuteur (Robert) of Horsham, Pennsylvania, and Sanford Fisher of New York, and adoring grandmother of Steven, Melissa, Michael and Jonathan T
 FLAGLER--Elizabeth M. (Betsy). Wife of the late Jack Flagler, passed away on December 15, 2007 after a long illness. She is survived by her son James F. Flagler of New York, her daughter and sonin-law Ann Flagler-Hess and Robert Hess, and her granddaughter Chloe of Connecticut. She is mourn
 FOWLER--Trudye Hathcote, 97, of Alexandria, VA died on Tuesday, January 22, 2008. She is predeceased by her husband Henry Hamill Fowler and her son Henry H. Fowler Jr. She was mother to Marianne Smith and Susan Fowler-Gallagher, sister of Lunette Hayes and Luneil Dutko. She is also survived
 GOLDBERG--Lisa. Loving friend and mentor, awesome mother and John's true love. Anne, Alan, Nina and Becky GOLDBERG--Lisa. On behalf of the entire faculty of New York University, we extend deepest condolences to the family of Lisa Goldberg, cherished wife of our University President,
 GRUNSCHLAG--Toni. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the passing of the eminent pianist Toni Grunschlag on January 12, in New York City. Natives of Vienna, Toni and her sister Rosi, who survives her, have been valued members of our Steinway Artist family for more than 5
 HARRISON--Mina, 95, died peacefully at home on January 24, 2008. Mina was an esteemed leader in the DKFBA and a shrewd businesswoman. Born in the Bronx. Married for over six decades to her childhood sweetheart Sam, mother of Myrna and Ellen. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and greatgrandm
 JAQUITH--Carolyn Zeichner, died on January 14, in Westchester, of lung cancer. She was 58. Ms. Jaquith is survived by her husband, David Jaquith and two daughters, Julianne and Alyssandra, of Briarcliff, NY; her sister, Barbara Zeichner of Buffalo, NY; and her father Oscar Zeichner of NYC. 
 KLEIN--Sadie, died peacefully at home on January 24, 2008 at age 101. Devoted wife of Emmanuel (deceased). Cherished mother of Norma and Victor (both deceased) and mother-in-law of Dorothy. Beloved grandmother of Jennifer, Katie, and Emily. Adoring great-grandmother of Ezekiel. A passionate
 LIBOWITZ--Shirley Marcus, 83, was a loving wife, mother and grandmother who made friends easily. A New Yorker who moved to La Jolla, CA, almost 13 years ago. She died there in a rehab center on January 18th, 2008. She had bravely overcome many medical traumas and was making an impressive ad
 MAGNIFICO--Anne Shuttleworth. ''Elegant Annie''. Beloved wife and mother leaving husband George, daughter Nicole, brother Robert and many relatives and friends to miss her eternal gentleness and friendship. Annie in her 68 years touched everyone she met with her infectious smile, her big bl
 ROSENBERG--Judith R. The family of Sylvia and James Ginsberg is deeply saddened by the death of our dear Aunt Judy. We pay tribute to her life marked by her love and devotion to our Uncle Al, her intense interest in the lives of her family, her close and very personal friendships, her wisdo
 SCHEUER--Emily Malino, died comfortably at home in Washington, DC, among the loving members of her family after a short and valiant battle with leukemia. For over 57 years the beloved wife of the late Congressman James H. Scheuer, Emily shared with him a lifetime commitment to the arts, the
 SMITH--Marie Francoise (nee Saunier). Beloved wife of Raymond Christopher Smith of New York City and dear mother of Constance of New York City and Paris, and Christopher and Corin of New York City. Marie passed away on January 16th, 2008, peacefully at her Manhattan home with her family by 
 SNIDER--Clara Fox. December 2, 1910 -January 25, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Silas Snider, mother of Amy and Jenny, grandmother of Ivy, great-grandmother of Lily, and aunt of Alan, Carol, and Joan. She was a deeply caring and generous person; a woman of intelligence; an early feminist wh
 STARFIELD--Mimi, on January 5, 2008. A native New Yorker, she loved politics, books, and opera. Beloved mother of David and Lawrence, loving grandmother of Bonnie, Andy, Kim, and Daniele, dearest sister of Bobby, and darling daughter of the late Ruth and Irving. She had an independent spiri
 TANUR--Edith M., at Martins Run, Media, PA, formerly of Ridgewood, Queens, age 100. Mother of Michael Tanur and mother-in-law of Judith Tanur, grandmother of Marcia Tanur, Victoria Gurfolino, and the late Rachel Tanur, great-grandmother of Max Lopez Tanur and Emma Chun Tanur, aunt of Alexan
 THOMSON--Mary Bush, a resident of South Salem, NY died peacefully on December 20, 2007. She was born in Lima, Peru, the daughter of Charles and Estela Bush. She was predeceased by her husband Robert Dewar and her sister Estela Bush McCoun. She is survived by her son Robert Andrew Dewar Thom
 TODMAN--Frances B., on Wednesday, January 23 in New York City. Devoted wife of the late William S. Todman, Sr., she is survived by her daughter Lisa, her son William, and her grandchildren Philip, Rebecca and William. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. The funeral will
 TOMBERG--Constance, suddenly on January 19, in Paris, her adopted city. Beloved friend of Danielle Maurice, cherished sister of Ruby T. Senie and Sally T. Salzer; loving aunt of David, Daniel, Peggy and Michael; adored grandaunt of Cordelia, Charlie and Jessie. On both sides of the Atlantic
 WARREN--Dorothy, 103, author of two books on the dramatic monologist Ruth Draper, photographer, lecturer, World War II veteran and lifelong New Yorker died peacefully January 21st in Manhattan. Miss Warren was a fifth generation New Yorker, the daughter of the late Jeanne Blanche Allien War
 SHEPHARD--Geraldine L., died peacefully on January 11, 2008. Daughter of the late Vera Shephard and the late Chester Shephard and sister of Patricia Patterson, she was born at the Presidio in San Francisco. A graduate of Principia College, she moved to New York and opened her own public rel
 GANZ--Sally W. Jan. 16, 1912--Jan. 27, 1997 Beloved mother and grandmother, remembered this day, and every day, as a model of passion, grace, warmth, and dignity. She is missed. GANZ--Sally W. January 27, 1997 Deeply loved by her children and grandchildren.       
 ALTERMAN--Phoebe, of Baltimore, MD, previously of New York City, died on January 21, 2007 at age 86. She was the wife of the late Daniel Alterman. She leaves her son Daniel L. Alterman (Li Wah Lai) of NYC, daughter Merry Alterman (Ed Rosenfeld) of Baltimore, four grandchildren and special f
 ASKINAS--Wilma, 85 years old, died on January 24th, 2007. Beloved mother of Barbara and Ira and grandmother of Debra. She was an outstanding tennis player, expert golfer, and talented author. She now joins her dear husband Milton in eternal rest. Services Sunday 11:30am at ''Riverside - Nas
 BRENNAN--Elsa C., born in Manhattan, May 3rd, 1921, died on January 20th, 2007. Dear wife of the late Edward P. Brennan. Beloved mother of Maureen, Edward, Nancy, Stephen and Jane. She is also survived by her cherished sister, Wilma Magruder, of Carefree, AZ, and nine loving grandchildren. 
 CANTOR--Elaine Yarin, 76, died January 25, in NYC of complications from lymphoma. She lived in Manhattan with her husband, Harold, who survives her. She received her BA from Duke University and taught American History in Utica, NY, for 30 years, winning the accolade Teacher Of The Year and 
 FARMER--June L., 85, former president of Women's City Club. Former resident of New York City, died Tuesday, January 23, 2007, in Amherst, MA. She was born in Minneapolis, MN, daughter of David and Esther (Adlin) Labovitz and graduated from the University of Minn. in 1943. She moved to New Y
 FIORATO--Joelyn. Peter Martins and the New York City Ballet mourn the passing of Joelyn Fiorato, beloved wife of our long-time Music Director and current Conductor Emeritus, Hugo Fiorato. An author and artist, Joelyn had a larger-than-life spirit that made her a treasured member of the New 
 FOX--Regina Reiss, 94, of Lakewood, NJ and West Palm Beach, FL, died January 14 in West Palm and interred January 16 in Lakewood. Born in Tarnapol, Ukraine, she came to Brooklyn, in 1937, moved to Lakewood in 1953 and retired to Florida. Predeceased by beloved husband Murray and devoted son
 GOLDBERG--Lisa. We have lost a dear colleague. Lisa's commitment to a robust democracy, progressive values, and her belief in the ability to change the world through engaging in civil society was unparalleled. She was a mentor and an innovator in her work and inspired others to reach for ex
 GONZALEZ--Rebecca Herrier, the talented, wellrespected, and well-loved Broadway, film and television actress passed away on January 5th, 2007, in Pacific Palisades at the age of 51. Becky Gonzalez (as she was known professionally, and to her friends) was born September 14, 1955, in Los Ange
 GORMAN--Rhoda (Edelman) 72 of Scottsdale, AZ, passed away January 17, 2007. Rhoda, a native New Yorker, graduated from Queens College and Far Rockaway High School. She encouraged her family to love and respect one another, to accept each person for whom they are, to read, enjoy literature a
 GRUNSCHLAG--Toni. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with profound sorrow the passing of the eminent pianist Toni Grunschlag on January 12, in New York City. Natives of Vienna, Toni and her sister Rosi, who survives her, have been valued members of our Steinway Artist family for more than 5
 MORRIS--Betty Osgood, Comic dancer, teacher and extraordinary performer died on January 22nd at the age of 91. Gifted with many talents, she graduated from Radcliffe College-Phi Beta Kappa. She studied dance in Boston, came to N.Y. danced in the Charles Wiedman Company where she created dis
 PALTROW--Randi J., of Lakewood, OH, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Passed away Saturday January 20, 2007. Beloved daughter of Dorothy and the late Arnold ''Buster'' Paltrow. Dear sister of Fran (Jack), Robert, and the late Bruce. Loving aunt and great-aunt to many. Donations may be made in her
 PONZO--Angela, January 14, 2007. Beautiful and wonderful mother to New York City based Costume Designer and Fashion Stylist, Rosemary Ponzo, and amazing and loving mother-in-law to Sales Director Edward Ankudavich of Alcatel-Lucent. She is my best friend and confidant and always there for m
 RAPAPORT--Helen, 91, of Boca Raton, FL, passed away January 26, 2007. A former resident of New York, Mrs. Rapaport is survived by her daughter Fran (Michael Richmond) Tetunic, grandson Scott Tetunic, and niece Marsha Hartstein. Services by Menorah Gardens, 954-4341531.       
 SALTER--Roberta Semple. September 17, 1910 -January 25, 2007. A woman of the 21st Century, who still loved her rotary phone. Wife of Harry Salter, daughter of Aimee Semple McPherson, and our dearly loved Granny. She visited nearly every corner of the world as a child with her mother, brothe
 SCHEIN--Ethel Barrett, February 18th, 1907-January 26th, 2007. Beloved and caring wife of the late Stephen. Adored mother of Bette and Richard Pesikoff of Houston, TX, and Jonah and Carla Schein of New York. Proud grandmother of David and Sarah, Joshua and Tracy, and Daniel and Heather Pesi
 SCHEUER--Emily Malino. Hebrew Union College -Jewish Institute of Religion mourns the death of Emily Malino Scheuer, beloved mother of our dear Elizabeth Scheuer and sister-in-law of our esteemed Board member, Richard Scheuer. The Scheuer family, through Si and Helen, Dick and Joan and their
 SMITH--Catherine T., 84, resident of Delray Beach, FL, and former resident of Garden City, Long Island, on January 26, 2007. Widow of late Leo C. Smith. She is survived by her loving children, Kevin, Leo, Peggy, David, and Kathleen, her loving daughters-inlaw Jodey and Beth, her sonsin-law,
 WILHELM--Maria (nee De Blasio), on January 22. Beloved daughter of Giovanni and Anna, mother of Steve, Don, and Bill, sister of Dorothy and Yole, aunt of John and Peter, grandmother of Dante, Chiara and Ben, mother-in-law to Ellen, Maggie, and Chirlane, and sister-inlaw to Mike and Jean. Sh
 WOOLF--Betsy (nee Agree). We mourn the loss of our dear loving Betsy. Her warmth and vibrancy and capacity to live every day to its fullest will be sorely missed. She will always be in our hearts. The Estes Family       
 AF KLERCKER--Birgitta Sayn - Wittgenstein Fouret, lost her long and courageous battle with cancer on January 17, 2007 in Paris. She is mourned by her husband Olivier Fouret, her children Sebastian and Natascha SaynWittgenstein, Katarina Fouret, two grandchildren, her family in Sweden, and m
 Liz Renay, a boisterous, buxom cult film actress who worked as a stripper, wrote several books and got a little too close to some mobsters in the late 1950s, leading to a three-year prison term, died last Monday near her home in Las Vegas. She was 80. The cause was internal bleeding
 KWALWASSER--Marie Kane, a long-time resident of Jamaica Estates died Friday, January 26, after a long illness. Born in Dundee, Scotland, January 6, 1913, she served as the Goodwill Ambassador of the Scottish Development Council traveling to the United States from 1936-1939 promoting the Emp
 MASLOW--Natalie Salwen, on January 27th, 2007. Devoted mother of Jane and the late Jimmy, and dear grandmother of Jamie. A loyal and caring friend and loving mother. A woman of great beauty and intellect. A unique lady among women who rose to great heights in all her endeavors. Funeral serv
 YAHR--Nina Ellen. Beloved wife of Eric B. Gertner, cherished sister of Carol Yahr, Laura Yahr and Barbara Yahr, and loving sister-in-law of Richard and Florence Fabricant, Tony Stern and Alex Lerman, on January 28, 2007, from complications after a stroke. She was also the devoted aunt of Ro
 Deborah Orin-Eilbeck, the Washington bureau chief and a columnist for The New York Post, died on Sunday at a hospital near her home in Manhattan. She was 59. The cause was gastric cancer, said her husband, Neville Eilbeck. Better known by her byline Deborah Orin, Ms. Orin-Ei
 COHN--Stella Katz, 96, beloved widow of Sol Katz and dearest wife of the late Joseph Cohn, devoted mother of Isadora, Weiss and Rose Ortiz, adored grandmother of Wendy, Debby, David, Francisco and Diego, and greatgrandmother to Joshua, Gregory, Erica, Andrew, Amanda, Adam and Alex. She was 
 EDELBAUM--Hedda, (nee Liverman), 93. Late of NYC and Katonah passed away in Hightstown, NJ January 29, of natural causes. She was predeceased by her husband Saul Edelbaum and her son Paul D. Zimmerman, she is survived by her grandchildren Ian Zimmerman of Brooklyn and Kirsten Zimmerman of M
 KEARNS--Doris M. The Boy Scouts of America, Greater New York Councils, acknowledge the passing of Doris M. Kearns and extends our sincere sympathy to her family and friends. Our thoughts and prayers are with all of her loved ones, particularly her son, William M. Kearns, Jr., a longtime fri
 KENGER--Elizabeth. The Board of Directors, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extend heartfelt sympathy to Sandy Simon, past president of our Auxiliary, and Larry Simon, Chairman of our Board, on the loss of their mother and mother-in-law, Elizabeth. As a residen
 LAZARUS--Eleanor S. The American Jewish Committee mourns with great sadness the passing of Eleanor Lazarus, a member of our Board of Governors who served in a range of leadership posts. Eleanor was profoundly dedicated to advancing human rights and strengthening intergroup understanding. Al
 MOYANO--Maricla, 67, writer, died January 1, 2007, San Francisco. Born February 3, 1939, Cordoba, Argentina. Feminist visionary, Icarus, Daughter of Bilitis 1969, there at the founding of the NYC Gay Movement, always ahead of her time. Loved and remembered by Susan, Laura, Julian; sister Ma
 STERNBERG--Beverly, a resident of Brooklyn, NY, died at her apartment in New York City, following a courageous battle with cancer. She was 80. Beverly was born August 25, 1926 in Brooklyn, NY, to Edward and Estelle Tartell. On February 23, 1947, she and Samuel Sternberg were united in a mar
 WALDEN--Sarah Harrison, RN, passed away at the age of 80 on January 15, 2007 at St. Luke's Hospital in New York City. She is survived by her son Shelton Walden. Memorial service will be held at the Church of the Heavenly Rest, 5th Ave and 90th St., on Wednesday, January 31, 2007 at 5 pm.   
 CASTALDO--Virginia, At age 86, passed away peacefully at home, after a long illness, predeceased by her husband of 50 years, Lee Castle, band leader of the Jimmy Dorsey Orchestra. Also, recently predeceased by her beloved sister Violeta Velero Hall, with whom she performed as the Velero Sis
 Maureen Cannon, a heavy hitter in the world of light verse who in the last four decades published more than 1,000 poems, most written in under a minute, died on Thursday at her home in Wyckoff, N.J. She was 84 and had lived in Ridgewood, N.J., for many years. Ms. Cannon died in her 
 BELL--Miriam. Born 1923 in Brooklyn, died peacefully January 11, 2007, a true New Yorker to the end. Predeceased by husband, Ben Bell, survived by daughters, Judy and Susie. She was generous, compassionate and stubborn. Her impeccable taste, fine mind and keen eye will be missed by all.    
 CANNON--Maureen, (nee: O'Connor), of Ridgewood, NJ, on January 25, 2007. A poet and raconteur, she is survived by two daughters, six grandsons and many friends and admirers. Maureen's husband, James, died in 1977. Mass was celebrated and followed by interment, January 29th. Daily Treat P & 
 FARMER--June. Women's City Club of NY mourns the passing of June Farmer, our President from 1982-1986. Her dedication and foresight continue to inspire us. Our condolences to her family and friends. Board of Directors and Members, WCCNY.       
 FRIBOURG--Eugenie M, January 28. Eugenie would have been 99 years old on February 13. We will remember her for her love of life; her deep commitment to community and medicine; her passion for sailing and swimming; her sense of moral outrage and ethics; her closeness to family and friends. L
 GOODSIDE--Dr. Samuel (Hacohen), Shulamith School for Girls extends its condolences to its esteemed H.S. Principal, Dr. Susan R. Katz on the loss of her dear father. A distinguished educator, former Principal of Hili, Ramaz, a gentlemen who was revered and loved by all. The Goodsides were al
 KAPULER--Sylvia Bell, 86, died January 29, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Dr. William P. Kapuler, she is survived by her son Alan, his wife Linda, and their three daughters Kusra, Serena, and Dylana; by her daughter Genevieve, her husband Gianni, and their son Matthew; and by her daughter K
 STERNBERG--Beverly, a resident of Brooklyn, NY, died at her apartment in New York City, following a courageous battle with cancer. She was 80. Beverly was born August 25, 1926 in Brooklyn, NY, to Edward and Estelle Tartell. On February 23, 1947, she and Samuel Sternberg were united in a mar
