 Janet S. Sainer, who as commissioner of New York City's Department for the Aging in the 1980s created programs to keep older people active, educate them on health issues, provide them with meals on weekends and help their caregivers, died Monday while attending a training conference on the 
 Sheila Ballantyne, a critically praised novelist whose work ranged over death, deception and family life -- more often than not, these were all of a piece -- died on May 2 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 70. The cause was multisystem atrophy, a degenerative neurological dise
 Amy Sullivan, who as executive director of the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, Conn., restored the finances of an institution long known for discovering significant playwrights early in their careers, died Sunday at her home in Old Lyme, Conn. She was 54. The cause was c
 Lee Nagrin, a noted Off Broadway performance artist, director and member of Meredith Monk's theater company, The House, died Thursday in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was colon cancer, said Barbara Busackino, a colleague. Ms. Nagrin performed with Ms. Monk from 1971 to 19
 Nellie Lutcher, a singer and pianist who had a string of rhythm-and-blues hits in the late 1940s and continued performing into the early 1990s, died last Friday in Los Angeles. She was 94. Her death was confirmed by her son, Talmadge Lewis of Concord, Calif. Ms. Lutcher's ca
 Ruth Bell Graham, the Rev. Billy Graham's wife and confidant who for more than 60 years devoted herself to his career as the 20th century's most enduring evangelist, died yesterday at her home in Montreat, N.C. She was 87. Her death was announced by a spokesman for Mr. Graham. She h
 Claudia Cohen, a high-profile gossip reporter for television and newspapers who was a frequent subject of the gossip columns herself, partly because of her marriage to, and remunerative divorce from, the billionaire businessman Ronald O. Perelman, died yesterday in Manhattan. She was 56 and
 Juanita Swedenburg, a Virginia winery and vineyard owner who in 2005 won a battle in the United States Supreme Court to tear down protectionist barriers that kept wineries from shipping directly to consumers in other states, died June 9 at her home in Middleburg, Va. She was 82. The
 Julie Thoma Wright, a founder and co-owner of Wright, the Chicago auction house that helped create the market for 20th-century modern design, died on Monday in Chicago. She was 49. The cause was colorectal cancer, her husband, Richard Wright, said. Ms. Thoma Wright, an inter
 Lola S. Wasserstein, whose larger-than-life personality provided inspiration for sprightly maternal characters in the plays of her daughter Wendy, died Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. Her granddaughter Pam Wasserstein announced the death. Wendy Wasserstein had
