 GELLER-Lillian. Died peacefully on August 30, at the age of 90. Loving mother of Sophia, grandmother of Janet and Laurel, and greatgrandmother of Matthew and Douglas. A woman whose generosity knew no bounds, whose inquisitive spirit about people was accompanied by her sharp wit, and whose z
 MASLOW-Florence. Born July 4, 1910, known as ''Miss Florence,'' an internationally celebrated dancer in the 1920's and 1930's. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Harry Maslow. Her strong will and ''joie de vie'' will continue to live on in her loving children Toni Gallant and Valerie Outhred, and
 MEADOW-Virginia R. On August 30, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Franklin Meadow. Loving mother of Dorothy Meadow Sobol and Carolyn Meadow Shechtman. Devoted grandmother of Emma, Julia and Edward Sobol and Jonathan Shechtman. Dear sister of Mildred Bellew Leonard. Memorial service at Frank E
 Lucy Somerville Howorth, a lawyer who said her advocacy of women's rights was inspired by the campaign that won women the vote under the 19th Amendment, died on Aug. 23 at her home in Cleveland, Miss. She was 102. Mrs. Howorth watched from a crowded Statehouse gallery in Nashville o
 DIAMOND-Blanche, on September 1, 1997 age 74. Beloved sister of Lewis R. Diamond and the late Philip Diamond. An enthusiastic devotee of Lincoln Center and all of its artistic forms. She will be missed by all the regulars. For information, call Gutterman's, 516764-9400.       
 JENNISON-Jane Lowe. Departed peacefully August 26 at her home in Taftsville, VT., at 79. Formerly of Manhattan and Westport, Conn. She is survived by her husband Peter S. Jennison, a son Andrew & two grandchildren. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, October 4, 3 P.M., at St. James
 KASHUK-Doris. Left this world Sunday, August 31, 1997. She was comfortable at home in the loving care of her family. Although Doris rarely spoke of her illness, she corageously battled cancer for more than a year. Beloved mother and best friend of Barbara; devoted mother or Richard and moth
 KOTICK-Ruth. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Samuel Kotick. Devoted mother of Elaine, Charles and Joel, cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. She will be deeply missed by all.       
 LAGIN-Ann, on September 1, 1997. Loving wife of the late Nathan. Beloved mother of Ellen and Marvin Ross, Arlene Lagin, Susan and Paul Feiwell, Steven Lagin, and the late Stanley Lagin. Cherished grandmother of Stanley and Karen, Randi and Brad, David, Debbie, Scott, Jill, Nathan, and Max, 
 MEADOW-Virginia R. On August 30, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Franklin Meadow. Loving mother of Dorothy Meadow Sobol and Carolyn Meadow Shechtman. Devoted grandmother of Emma, Julia and Edward Sobol and Jonathan Shechtman. Dear sister of Mildred Bellew Leonard. Memorial service at Frank E
 MILLER-Libby Shana. On August 29, after receiving bad news about cancer spread this brave and noble woman who put up an extraordinary fight, finally decided she had had enough of ''unfair'' pain & suffering. Formerly of Manhattan, she had moved with her husband of 37 years, Alan, to San Fra
 PEPOSE-Hannah (Helen). Of Kings Point, Tamarac, FL. (Formerly of Jamaica Estates, NY). Much beloved mother, grandmother, sister, sister-in-law and aunt, passed away peacefully on Sept. 1 at age 73, to join her late husband Harry after a brave battle with breast cancer at the home of her dau
 BENAMY-Tamar. Our heartfelt sympathy and condolences to Avivah on the untimely death of her beloved daughter Tami. Friends and Alumni of Gymnasia Herzelia       
 CODY-Mary Ellen. On September 1, 1997. Retired Officer of J.P. Morgan. Beloved daughter of the late Alice and Patrick. Devoted sister of Alice Vain, Johanna Wilkins, Joseph and Thomas Cody and the late John Cody. Reposing at the Abbey, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, on Thursday and Frida
 HACKER-Lois Wetherell, on September 2, at the age of 67, in her home in Manhattan, of a brain tumor and associated complications. At the time of her death, she had been married to Andrew Hacker for 42 years, and is also survived by her daughter, Ann Gower of Harwich, Ma. At her express requ
 HARTZ-Catherine B., of Basking Ridge, NJ and East Orleans, MA, age 52, died September 1, 1997 at her home in East Orleans, MA. Wife of John C. Hartz, mother of John C. Jr, Catherine B. Hartz, daughter of Chester C. Burley, Jr and Jane B. Swift, sister of Chester C. Burley III, Susie Schmert
 KASHUK-Doris. Left this world Sunday, August 31, 1997. She was comfortable at home in the loving care of her family. Although Doris rarely spoke of her illness, she corageously battled cancer for more than a year. Beloved mother and best friend of Barbara; devoted mother of Richard and moth
 STURIM-Paula. On September 2, 1997. Beloved daughter of Sarah and the late Samuel Sturim. Niece of Esther Sturim. Cherished by her aunt Esther and uncle Mat Manes, her many cousins and her loving friends. She will forever be in our hearts. Services Thursday, 12 Noon ''The Riverside'', 76 St
 CERUTTI-Anita J. Children of Bellevue, Inc. is saddened by the passing of Ms. Cerutti, a loyal supporter for many years. We extend sincere condolences to her entire family. Board of Directors Children of Bellevue, Inc. Bellevue Hospital Center       
 ELFENBEIN-Harriet Saltser. On September 3rd at her home in Palm Beach, FL. Wife of the late Irving Elfenbein, mother of Ann and Murray Pincus and Joan and William Button. Grandmother of Beth and Lynn Pincus and Jeffrey, Scot and Douglas DiStefano.       
 GOLDSTEIN-Joyce. Former Head Nurse at the New York Times newspaper (retired 1980) passed away at the Wood River Retirement Community in Bensalem, PA on August 19, 1997. Mrs. Goldstein was 76. Wife of the late David Goldstein, also retired (1969) from the New York Times newspaper. Mrs. Golds
 GREENE-Lucy, died August 31 at the age of 77 after a brief illness. The family wishes to express their great sorrow at her passing. She is survived by her husband, Thomas LoMonaco, her two children, Joshua Greene and Deborah Bershatsky, her daughter-in-law Judy Greene, her son-in-law Charle
 HACKER-Lois Wetherell, on September 2, at the age of 67, in her home in Manhattan, of a brain tumor and associated complications. At the time of her death, she had been married to Andrew Hacker for 42 years, and is also survived by her daughter, Ann Gower of Harwich, Ma. At her express requ
 ISRAEL-Mollie. Dearly loved wife of the late Samuel. Much loved mother of the late Lester. Much loved mother-in-law of Shelley and dearly loved grandmother of Mark and Jennifer Israel. The last of eight siblings. Dear aunt of many wonderful nieces, nephews and great nieces and nephews. A ve
 KATZ-Nettie, on Sept. 3, 1997, at Century Village, Deerfield Beach, Florida. She is survived by her son Jerome, her daughter Marilyn Hirsch, a brother Daniel Oringel, Sister, Cissy Lerner, four grandchildren and many nieces and nephews. A graveside service will be held on Friday, September 
 KUENNE-Olivia Michelle, age 5. Beloved daughter of Christopher and Leslie Kuenne of Princeton, NJ; sister of Peter; granddaughter of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Kuenne of Princeton, Mr. & Mrs. William O. Harbach of Fairfield, CT, Peter Vought of Sante Fe, NM. Extremely bright, funny, and wise, Oliv
 MUHLSTOCK - Freda. Two months short of her 99th birthday. Widow of Rudy. Survived by two sons Robert (Helen) and Arthur (Jacqueline) and five grandsons and seven great-grandchildren. Graveside services were held.       
 RUDERMAN-Ida. Of Floral Park, N.Y. Passed away September 2, 1997 at the age of 96. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Alexander Ruderman. Devoted mother, adored grandmother and great grandmother. Ida will be remembered for her great energy, tenacity and devotion to her family. She will be forever
 SPENCER-Diana. The patients and staff of The Aids Care Center at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center mourn the tragic death of our beloved benefactor. The Princess touched all of our lives through her efforts on our behalf, as well as her tireless campaign to eliminate stigma and d
 WHITTLE-Gloria B. Died Aug. 31, 1997. Beloved daughter of Edward and Mary. Mother of Michelle. Grandmother of Michael and Vanishia. Services on September 5th, 11 AM, Saint Luke's Community Church, 142 Watkins St, Bklyn NY. Interment Evergreen Cemetery. WHITTLE-Gloria B. The Executiv
 YOUNG-Elinor Jean Schofield. Died September 1, 1997. Devoted and loving mother of Jonathan and Elizabeth Young of New York. Beloved sister of Michael Schofield of Washington, DC, niece of Mother Virginia Schofield, T.C.G. of Tucson, AZ. and wife of the late William H. Young of NY. She will 
 CRONIN-Kathryn. Executive Director of the Association of Medical Publications, Inc. was called to eternal glory on July 20, 1997. Her devoted friends will celebrate her life in a memorial service on September 10 at 3:30PM St. Paul the Apostle Church, 415 W. 59 St.       
 Kaaren Erickson, a soprano who was on the roster of the Metropolitan Opera for the last 12 years and whose repertory ranged from Handel oratorios to Philip Glass's most recent opera, died on Saturday at her home in Maryville, Tenn. She was 44. Lawrence Wasserman, her manager, said t
 BASH-Florence. The Jewish Teachers Community Chest mourns her passing. Her 50 years as administrator were the solid rock bearing the problems of changing demographics. To her daughter and family, condolences on the loss of our heroine.       
 GERATY-Mary S., of Huntington, Long Island and New York City died suddenly on September third at age seventy-eight. Devoted wife of 56 years of Matthew F. Geraty. Beloved Mother of Maureen G. Leness. Cherished Grandmother of Sandra, Pamela and Robert Beuerlein, Jr. We will deeply miss her c
 ISRAEL-Sylvia K., age 89. Sylvia was a gifted first-grade teacher, a life-long fighter for social justice, a musician and composer of many songs for children's records; with her late husband, Leo, she co-produced the first records to accompany children's books. She gave time and caring insi
 JONKVROUWE-Helen Jans-Bicker. My tender and supportive wife of thirty years and our warm and nurturing mother has passed away after a short battle against breast cancer. We loved her very much and she will remain in our hearts forever. She has been buried on Saturday, August 9, at Westduin 
 MINOFF-Ida, passed away on August 23, 1997. Mourned by her son Ivan Feldman, her sister Sylvia Jankow, step-sons Marvin and Bruce Minoff, and 6 grandchildren. She is already missed.       
 PAINTER-Patsy. We are saddened by the untimely death of our dear friend. She was truly an elegant and gracious Southern Belle. Our heartfelt condolences go out to her husband Bill and her daughter Bette. Alan and Millie Fell       
 SPENCER-Diana. Profound sorrow at her death and deep gratitude for her friendship and generosity at the time of The Royal Visit in Chicago to benefit our cancer support community are offered in memory of Diana, Princess of Wales, by members, staff, Board and Founding Development Committee o
 Harriet Browne, a tap dancer, choreographer and teacher who performed with the Copasetics, died on Sept. 1 at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. She was 65 and lived in the Bronx. Her manager, Susan Goldbetter, said Ms. Browne had been ill for a long time but did not specify the caus
 Mother Teresa, the Roman Catholic nun who won the 1979 Nobel Peace Prize for her work among the poorest of the world's poor, died yesterday in Calcutta, India, where she had lived since her work with the destitute began five decades ago. She was 87. Mother Teresa was hospitalized se
 Angenette Martin, who specialized in grass-roots organizing and consulting for political campaigns and others, died last Saturday at her home in Sausalito, Calif. She was 50. The cause was breast cancer, according to Martin & Glantz, her consulting firm, founded in 1985. Bor
 COHN-Madeline. In her 99th year. Survived by sister-in-law Marion Cohn. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Interment was private on September 5, 1997, at Mt. Hope Cemetery, Hastingson-Hudson, NY.       
 COLGATE-Florence Manuel, of Locust Valley, NY, peacefully on August 14, 1997, age 92. Beloved wife of the late John K. Mother of Annette Fayard of Paris, France, John K. Jr. of Mill Neck, NY and Mimi Bullock of Greenwich, CT. Grandmother of twelve, greatgrandmother of 16. Memorial service S
 DOUGLAS-Vivian E., September 4, 1997 of Philadelphia, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Founder of Cultural Crossroads, Lafayette Avenue Presbyterian Church, Brooklyn, NY and active in numerous organizations such as The Links, Inc., Brooklyn, NY, and the Lawyers' Wives, Brooklyn, NY. Wife of the la
 FARGO-Margaret Morse. Of Edison, NJ. Died on September 3, 1997 on Nantucket Island. She was the wife of the late Alvin W. Fargo, Jr. and is survived by her sister, Louise M. Tweedy, her three children, Lorine, Jane and Mike Fargo, three grandsons and three nieces. A Memorial Service will be
 GOLDBERGER - Donna. Helen and Larry Doppelt, and their children Pamela and Larry, Margery and Larry, Shelley and Jeff, extend heartfelt condolences to Marc and the children Michael, David and Erica, and to Selma and Seymour Goldberger, and to Mabel and Fred Faehner, and their children and g
 GOLDEN-Elizabeth K. (formerly Elizabeth K. Atkinson), 69, died September 2, 1997, and is survived by her husband Herbert L. Golden; her sons Peter, Matthew and Leeds Atkinson; her grandsons Eber and Revel Atkinson and her sisters, Bertha Cavagnaro and Marguerite Maly. She served many years 
 GONZALEZ - Brooke Emmens. Cherished and beloved daughter of Diana and Peter William Gonzalez and adored sister of Peter Jr. died September 4, 1997 of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. Brooke, a freshman at Brown University, had attended the Spence School and graduated from Deerf
 QUITON-Sofia. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Lucien Quiton. Loving mother of the late Barbara Jacoby. Devoted and cherished sister of Jack Gould. Adored grandmother of Lauri Greenberg and Sharon Webber. Loved and admired by her great-grandchildren and a great many friends. Services at The Riv
 ROBERTS-Elaine F. In loving memory of our wife, mother and grandmother who gave generously with her heart and soul, died September 2, 1997. Her loyalty to family and friends and unbroken spirit for life has been passed on to survivors husband, Lloyd, children, Lisa and Joshua, Lisa and Stev
 RUFFINO-Alice (nee Stacey). Age 88, dearly loved mother of Sandra P. Manne (Jerry) has died in Illinois. She is also survived by her cousins Alice Rowan McCormick and Florence and Reynold Kornicker. Mrs. Ruffino was born and raised in NY and was educated at Barnard. She was a magazine edito
 SMITH-Alison Vera. On September 5, 1997, age 64. Dearly beloved sister of Louise Schneider and her husband Otto Schneider. Niece of Margaret Smith and Josephine Seitel. Adored by her cousins Dr. Carl H. Smith, Chris Smith, Lillian Bowers, Joshua Smith, Sephine and Michael Melrod, George Mel
 Sally Blane, an actress who appeared in more than 100 films, died on Aug. 27 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 87. Although Miss Blane's career never equaled that of her sister Loretta Young, over four decades she acted in a wide variety of films, appearing with stars including W.
 CHECKNOFF-Ruth (nee Rosenberg). On September 6, 1997, in Baltimore, MD. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Carl Checknoff. Loving mother of Barbara and Michael Checknoff. Devoted motherin-law of Rabbi Seth Riemer and Judith Stiefel. Beloved sister of Martin Rosenberg. Devoted daughter of Joseph R
 ERICKSON-Kaaren. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our beloved colleague and friend, Kaaren Erickson. During her too brief career at the Met, she sang nine roles, including Susanna in ''Le Nozze di Figaro'', Blanche in ''Dialogues of the Carmelites'' and Zerlina in ''Don Giovanni''
 GONZALEZ-Brooke. Our hearfelt condolences to Diana, Peter and Peter, Jr., on the tragic loss of their beloved Brooke. Her spirit and essence will remain with you forever. Our hearts are full of compassion and understanding. Zena, Michael and Jenny Wiener GONZALEZ-Brooke. The residen
 GONZALEZ - Brooke Emmens. Cherished and beloved daughter of Diana and Peter William Gonzalez and adored sister of Peter Jr. died September 4, 1997 of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. Brooke, a freshman at Brown University, had attended the Spence School and graduated from Deerf
 MANFREDI-Pierina Jaccod, 96, of Boynton Beach, Florida, formerly of Manhattan and Riverdale, New York, died Tuesday, September 2, 1997. She was born on July 28, 1901 in Saint Pierre Aosta, Italy. Burial will be Wednesday, September 10, 1997, at 11:00 A.M., in Mount Olivet Cemetery, Maspeth,
 GRIN-Anne. Creative sculptor and a woman of uncommon grace and goodness. We gather to celebrate her life at Temple Shalom, Richards Ave, Norwalk, CT, at 5 PM, Monday, September 8.       
 KELL-Yetta, the ''Great Lady,'' never forgotten, sorely missed by her children and all who knew her.       
 GONZALEZ - Brooke Emmens. Cherished and beloved daughter of Diana and Peter William Gonzalez and adored sister of Peter Jr. died September 4, 1997 of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. Brooke, a freshman at Brown University, had attended the Spence School and graduated from Deerf
 KANTER-Adele. Died Sunday, Septemper 7, after a long life filled with service to the cause of human rights. Her many close friends and loving family will sorely miss her unfailing helpfulness, sharp wit and warm heart.       
 KOLB-Libby. The Aderet Chapter of EMUNAH of America and its national officers mourn the tragic passing of Libby Kolb, age 37, past Chapter President. With her magnetism, talents and vision, she built EMUNAH in Teaneck on behalf of Israel's children. She will be missed by everyone she touche
 MARGOLIS-Laura. The Officers, Board and Staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JdC), deeply mourn the passing of one of the outstanding figures in JDC history, who was involved in the rescue and relief of thousands of Jews fleeing Nazi persecution. A true Woman of Valor,
 MENOWITZ-Nina Powell. Of Bal Harbour, Florida. On September 7, 1997; cherished wife of Harold, loving mother of Meris Powell Prescott, Richard Powell and Ann Pack and stepmother of Frederick Menowitz & Carol Penn; beloved mother-in-law of Darrell Prescott, Sheila Fitzpatrick and Bob Pack an
 NAFTALIN-Ruth Yoffey, on September 5, 1997. Wife of the late Dr. Moses Naftalin. Mother of Alixandra and Peter Kolbe. Grandmother of Seth and Deena Binus, Ari Binus, and Yoni Binus, and 3 step-grandchildren. Special aunt to Micah and Beth Naftalin and Adelle Lohman, and survived by her exte
 REISS-Margarette. In 1949, Margarette Reiss placed a notice in Newsday appealing to other parents of children with mental retardation to come together to discuss alternatives to sending their children away to institutions. A group of parents responded and met at the Carle Place Firehouse an
 SLATTERY-Lela Hendry. In Manhattan on September 7th, in her 81st year. A native of Auckland, New Zealand, she served in the U.S. Army nurses corps in the Pacific theater during World War II. At Guadalcanal in October 1944 she wed Louis R. Slattery, a surgeon with the U.S. Army Seventh Evacu
 STAFF-Sonya. Peacefully, on September 8, 1997. A remarkable woman. Widow of her beloved Otto; survived by her loving daughter, Eve S. Rosahn; daughter-inlaw, Marion D. Banzhaf; loving relatives, and countless friends. Social activist, feminist, with a passionate interest in Yiddish culture 
 STRAUS-Marjorie Lewengood. 98. Died at home September 5, 1997, after a lengthy illness. Beloved wife of the late Charles Bennett Straus, dear mother of Charles, Jr. and John. Affectionate mother-of-law of Gwyned and Mary, fond grandmother of Charles, III and Timothy and great grandmother of
 STUDNER-Fay B. Kuhn. Passed away peacefully on September 8, 1997 at the wonderful age of 99. She was the widow of Peter R. Kuhn and David Studner. Beloved mother of Edwina K. Scharff of Kennebunkport, ME and Nancy K. Piccioni of Eugene, OR. Devoted grandmother of Peter B. Scharff of Ossinin
 WEICHSEL-Doris (nee Caan). On September 7, 1997. Beloved wife of Lothar. Loving mother of Marion and Jerry Sussman. Adoring grandmother of Daniel, Andrew & Wendy and Peter. May she rest in peace. Services Tues. 1:15PM, at ''Riverside-Nassau North Chapels'' 55 North Station Plaza (opposite L
 Mary Sears, a researcher at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution for more than 60 years and a guiding editorial force behind several top scientific publications devoted to marine studies, died on Sept. 2 at her home in Woods Hole, Mass. She was 92. Early in Dr. Sears's career, socie
 BORAH-Goldie. Beloved mother, grandmother, friend, musician. Loved by all who knew her. Services Thursday, Sept 11, Riverside Chapel, Mt. Vernon, NY at 10AM.       
 GASARCH-Rivia M. Beloved wife of the late Harry D. Devoted mother of Mark. Dear sister of Ruth Benenfeld and Mildred Chesney. Loving grandmother of Eve and Shira. Cherished aunt of Marian, Eric, Richard and Mark. Service today, at 12 Noon, Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mt
 GOLD-Miriam. Congregation Kolami Jewish Community Center of White Plains records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and convey sincerest condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Mark Hershey, President       
 GONZALEZ - Brooke Emmens. Cherished and beloved daughter of Diana and Peter William Gonzalez and adored sister of Peter Jr. died September 4, 1997 of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. Brooke, a freshman at Brown University, had attended the Spence School and graduated from Deerf
 GRUEN-Gerta (Weiniger). Died September 8, 1997. Devoted wife of William, beloved sister of Ron and Jaffa Vered, Tel-Aviv, and Harry and Lore Kirchheimer, Chicago; dear loving aunt of Opal, David, Jim, Guri and Lea, great aunt to 10 nieces and nephews and beloved by all. She was a geriatric 
 HOPKINSON - HOPKINS - Marian. Beloved godmother of Helen W. Wallace, & former Vice President of Brown, Harris, Stevens, died peacefully in her sleep early Monday morning. Friends may visit at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday from 4-8 P.M. Funeral is Thursday 
 KOLB-Libby. For as long as we've known Libby, she has been a keen spark in our lives. Her spice, her spirit, her wit, her creative talents and her colorful and unique character stole into our hearts to remain forever. Mindy Orlinsky, Ronnie Faber Joyce Bendavid, Susan Sklarin Zahava Englard
 PAKAS-Jean A., on September 5, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Frederick. Loving sister of Malcolm and Martin L. Abrams and the late Arthur Abrams, devoted sister-inlaw of Kay and Gloria Abrams. Dear aunt and great aunt. She was greatly loved and she will be held in our dearest memory. Priva
 PEPPER-Eleanor. On September 7, in her 94th year. Beloved sister of the late Benjamin and Morton. Devoted aunt of Alice P. and Carol H.P. Cooper and D. Stephen and Michael Pepper and Sam Hellinger. Family and friends will gather in her apartment at 9 East 96 Street at 1 PM, on Friday, Sept 
 SHIRK-Dr. Evelyn Urban Buchler. Hofstra University is profoundly saddened by the death of Dr. Evelyn Urban Buchler Shirk, Professor Emerita of Philosophy. Professor Shirk died on August 24, 1997 after a short illness. She graduated cum laude with her A.B. degree from Wilson College, and ear
 SLATTERY-Lela Hendry. In Manhattan on September 7th, in her 81st year. Survived by her loving husband Louis, son John, daughter Elizabeth Spahr, grandchildren Kate and James Slattery and Nicholas and Emily Spahr, and daughter-in-law Kathy Slatteryall of Manhattan. Funeral service at St. Jam
 STAFF-Sonya. Peacefully, on September 8, 1997. A remarkable woman. Widow of her beloved Otto; survived by her loving daughter, Eve S. Rosahn; daughter-inlaw, Marion D. Banzhaf; loving relatives, and countless friends. Social activist, feminist, with a passionate interest in Yiddish culture 
 STERN-Miriam. On September 8, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Herman R., devoted mother of Linda, cherished grandmother of David, loving sister of Milton and Caroline and the late Jeanette and Albert. She was a beloved aunt and great-aunt to many. Services on Wednesday, 12:30 P.M., at ''Schw
 STUDNER-Fay. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed honorary member, Fay Studner, and extend sincere condolences to her family. Roy R. Raizen, President       
 GONZALEZ - Brooke Emmens. Cherished and beloved daughter of Diana and Peter William Gonzalez and adored sister of Peter Jr. died September 4, 1997 of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. Brooke, a freshman at Brown University, had attended the Spence School and graduated from Deerf
 GUTKIN-Dr. Joan. On September 10, 1997. Beloved wife of Allen. Loving mother of Cari, Lisa and Jeffrey. Loving mother-in-law of Kenneth & Karen. Adoring grandmother of Lauren, Tara, Erin and Jessica for whom she knitted with love. Devoted Principal of P.S. 9 for seven years. She will be dee
 HOPKINSON - HOPKINS - Marian. Beloved godmother of Helen W. Wallace, & former Vice President of Brown, Harris, Stevens, died peacefully in her sleep early Monday morning. Friends may visit at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday from 4-8 P.M. Funeral is Thursday 
 KAUFMAN-Bruce A. The Board of Directors, Faculty and Staff of CLAL-The National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership extend deepest condolences to Arlene Kaufman, our esteemed Board member, on the passing of her beloved husband, Bruce Kaufman. May she and the entire family be comforted
 LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of an aishet chayil-a gracious lady, charming and helpful, a source of moral and psychological strength for her husband and children, and, in her own right, a personality 
 McCARTHY-Virginia M., September 9th, 1997. Beloved wife of the late John E. McCarthy. Loving mother of Maureen C. McCarthy and J. Thomas McCarthy. Friends may call Friday, 2-5, 7-9 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Mass of Christian Burial Sat., September 13th, 10
 McHUGH-Gail Fiske (Gigi), of Philadelphia, PA and formerly of New York City. Died on Tuesday, September 9th, 1997 after a short illness. Daughter of Mrs. Burton Peek McHugh and the late Dr. McHugh and granddaughter of Mrs. John Wilson Fiske, Jr. She is also survived by two brothers, Burton 
 McKENNA-Florence (Mrs. William T.), nee Valis, peacefully on Sept. 7, 1997. Born June 20, 1906 in Austria. She was widowed in 1933 and worked as an accountant for Continential Insurance Company for many years. After her retirement, she volunteered at Booth Memorial Hospital, Flushing, NY. S
 MOSKOWITZ-Carol. On September 10, 1997. Beloved wife of Herbert. Loving mother of Robert and Marlon. Visiting Saturday 7 to 9PM. Service Sunday 12 noon at ''The Riverside'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory to the American Cancer Society.       
 PAKAS-Jean A. On September 5, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Frederick. Loving sister of Malcolm and Martin L. Abrams, and the late Arthur Abrams. Sister-in-law of Gloria, Kay and Gertrude Abrams. Dear aunt and greataunt. She was greatly loved and will be held in our dearest memory. Service
 PEARCE-Mary C. Age 83, of Mahwah, NJ, formerly of Riverdale, New York, died September 10, 1997. She ran the Kingsbridge Answering Service in the Bronx for 45 years, retiring in 1996. Beloved mother of Deborah Pearce, Ph.D. Funeral Mass will be on Saturday 9:30 A.M., at Our Lady of Mount Car
 PEPPER-Eleanor. On September 7, in her 94th year. Beloved sister of the late Benjamin and Morton. Devoted aunt of Alice P. and Carol H.P. Cooper and D. Stephen and Michael Pepper and Sam Hellinger. Family and friends will gather in her apartment at 9 East 96 Street at 1 PM, on Friday, Sept 
 RUSCH-Frances May Williams, September 10, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Henry A. Rusch, Jr. Loving mother of Cecile RuschQueuil, Henry A. Rusch, III and Dr. Valerie Rusch. Service Monday, September 15, 1997, 1:30 PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Contributions in
 SLATTERY-Lela Hendry. In Manhattan on September 7th, in her 81st year. Survived by her loving husband Louis, son John, daughter Elizabeth Spahr, grandchildren Kate and James Slattery and Nicholas and Emily Spahr, and daughter-in-law Kathy Slatteryall of Manhattan. Funeral service at St. Jam
 WALLDOV-Liz (Elizabeth), at home September 8, 1997. New York native, community activist, naturalist and world traveler. Liz set a shining standard of service. She did it with tough questions, hard work, good humor, and finesse. She enjoyed music, dance, and the company of good friends. Marg
 Ann Dunnigan, an actress and translator, died on Sept. 5 at her home in Manhattan. She was 87. Ms. Dunnigan was born in Hollywood and grew up in San Francisco. She attended Principia College in St. Louis. After a brief career in the theater, which included an appearance on Broadway 
 GIBBS-Joselyn Reynolds, of Spring Valley Rd, Ossining, age 83. Died Sept. 10 after a long illness. One of three children of George O. Reynolds & Ruth Sutton Reynolds of New Rochelle, she attended Syracuse University and was a model for the John Robert Powers agency in New York. The beloved 
 LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. Upper East Side Hatzolah, its members and coordinators, mourn the passing of Gertrude Lookstein, an exceptional individual, a true ''eishet chayil'', and leader in our community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her son, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Rabbi of Congregat
 MENOWITZ-Nina. A loving wife, mother, grandmother and friend, all who knew her will never forget how vividly she touched our lives. Rarely does there come along a woman with so many wonderful qualities as Nina. Intelligence, honesty, and courage were only some of the outstanding virtues pos
 MOSKOWITZ-Carol. On September 10, 1997. Beloved wife of Herbert. Loving mother of Robert and Marlon. Visiting Saturday 7 to 9PM. Service Sunday 12 noon at ''The Riverside'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory to the American Cancer Society.       
 REICHMAN-Stella Jolles. Died September 9 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Henry Reichman. Loving mother of the late Thomas and Steven, grandmother of Jamie. Memorial service Wednesday, October 1, Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave at 81 Street at 2PM. Contributions in her memory m
 SOMMER-Bonnie. September 10, 1997. Born March 1, 1948. Bonnie died after a valiant battle with lung cancer. She was the daughter of the late Smitty Sommer and his survived by her mother Esther, her sister Elissa and the joy of her life, her son Michael. Bonnie was a graduate of the Cooper U
 ZISSON-Gertrude (Rosenhirsch). Of Narragansett, RI, died Wednesday at home. She was the wife of the late Max Zisson. She leaves two sons, Harry and William and daughter-in-law Nancy. She was the grandmother of Alex, Robin and Daniel. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to Miriam H
 Eleanor Pepper, a former chairwoman of Pratt Institute's department of interior design who was a longtime design consultant and decorated an early version of the United Nations Security Council meeting room, died on Sunday at her apartment in the Carnegie Hill section of Manhattan. She was 
 ERDMAN-Edna Kaufmann. Died peacefully on September 11, 1997, Devoted wife of Herbert J. Erdman. Loving mother of John H. and Doris S. Erdman, and the late William H. Erdman. Cherished grandmother of John H. Jr, Robert W, Michael F., Peter N., Andrew H, and H. James. Adored great-grandmother
 LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. Ariel United Israel Institutes deeply mourns the passing of the beloved mother of Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, member of our Board of Governers, devoted friend and supporter. She was a true Woman of Valour, lover of Torah, Israel and Eretz Israel. Heartfelt condolences to R
 MOSKOWITZ-Carol. On September 10, 1997. Beloved wife of Herbert. Loving mother of Robert and Marlon. Visiting Saturday 7 to 9PM. Service Sunday 12 noon at ''The Riverside'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory to the American Cancer Society.       
 REICHMAN-Stella Jolles. Died September 9 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Henry Reichman. Loving mother of the late Thomas and Steven, grandmother of Jamie. Memorial service Wednesday, October 1, Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave at 81 Street at 2PM. Contributions in her memory m
 THALL-Phyllis S. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend, after a long illness. Pre-deceased by her dear husband Arnold. She will be missed by friends and family alike. Funeral service to be held Sunday, September 14 at 11:30 AM, at Boulevard-Riverside Chapel, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, N
 Connie Clausen, an actress and literary agent who began her career by riding circus elephants, died on Sept. 7 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, said Stedman Mays, an associate of Ms. Clausen's literary agency. Ms
 DIETHELM-Margaret W., 90, of Delray Beach, FL., and formerly of Locust Valley, Long Island, NY, passed away Sunday, September 7, 1997. Mrs. Diethelm is the daughter of the late Arthur E. and Florence C. Whitney of New York. She is survived by a daughter, Margaret D. Foster of Honolulu, HI.;
 ERDMAN-Edna Kaufmann. Died peacefully on September 11, 1997, Devoted wife of Herbert J. Erdman. Loving mother of John H. and Doris S. Erdman, and the late William H. Erdman. Cherished grandmother of John H. Jr, Robert W, Michael F., Peter N., Andrew H, and H. James. Adored great-grandmother
 GARDNER-Katharine van Nest Post. On September 2, age ninetyone. Survived by her children, grandchildren, and great grandchildren. Librarian. A woman of great intellect and boundless love. We will miss her. Donations to Doctors Without Borders, N.Y.       
 HUSON-Katherine Arthur. Playwright and teacher died peacefully after a short illness on Wednesday, September 3. She is much missed by her sons, Edward Arthur Huson and Christopher Gordon Huson and cousin, Phyllis Lavelle. Friends and relatives are invited to a memorial service in San Franci
 LEVITT-David. After a courageous stuggle for health, beloved husband for 60 years of Norma Uttal Levitt and loving father of Sally Steinberg, Nancy Hoffman and Andrew Levitt. Devoted grandfather to Noah M. and Jonah A. Steinberg, Rebecca HoffmanGreenwald, Mia and Elizabeth Levitt. Also mour
 LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. Ariel United Israel Institutes deeply mourns the passing of the beloved mother of Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, member of our Board of Governers, devoted friend and supporter. She was a true Woman of Valour, lover of Torah, Israel and Eretz Israel. Heartfelt condolences to R
 MILLON-Clara Hall, on Tuesday, September 9, 1997, in Rochester, New York. Survived by her husband, Rene Millon; son, Peter (Debra Janes) Hall of MO.; three grandchildren, Rachel Hall of Rochester, NY, Daniel Hall of MO, Carrie Greeson of MO. One greatgranddaughter, Maude Hall Skillern of Ro
 MOSKOWITZ-Carol. On September 10, 1997. Beloved wife of Herbert. Loving mother of Robert and Marlon. Visiting Saturday 7 to 9PM. Service Sunday 12 noon at ''The Riverside'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory to the American Cancer Society.       
 MUNK-Barbara D., M.D., passed away Friday, September 12 in New York. Survived by her brothers, Dr. Peter Munk and Prof. Dr. Klaus Munk, her sister, Dr. Rosemarie Hoffmann, many loving family members in Germany, and friends here and abroad. Her life was dedicated to child psychiatry. She was
 OZANICS-Victoria, died September 9, 1997. She was born May 29, 1908 in Yugoslavia. She emigrated to New York City with her mother while in her teens. After graduating from Barnard College, she began work at the Harkness Pavillion of Columbia University Physicians and Surgeons as Assistant t
 PITMAN-Marian Coggeshall, July 12, 1905-August 25, 1997. Survived by husband, Lorraine Farquhar Pitman of Bloomfield, Conn.; daughter, Sandra Janie Pitman of El Cajon, CA; brother, Dr. Bayard Coggeshall and wife Mary Achilles of Basking Ridge, NJ. Amongst many volunteer activities she was C
 POSNER-Deborah Vowler. The Ethical Culture Fieldston School community notes with sadness the untimely death of Deborah Vowler Posner. We extend hearfelt condolences to her husband Bruce, son Nathaniel, mother Joan, and the entire Vowler family. They request memorial contributions be made to
 REICHMAN-Stella Jolles. Died September 9 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Henry Reichman. Loving mother of the late Thomas and Steven, grandmother of Jamie. Memorial service Wednesday, October 1, Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave at 81 Street at 2PM. Contributions in her memory m
 STAFF-Sonya. Peacefully, on September 8, 1997. A remarkable woman. Widow of her beloved Otto; survived by her loving daughter, Eve S. Rosahn; daughter-inlaw, Marion D. Banzhaf; loving relatives, and countless friends. Social activist, feminist, with a passionate interest in Yiddish culture 
 THALL-Phyllis S. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend, after a long illness. Pre-deceased by her dear husband Arnold. She will be missed by friends and family alike. Funeral service to be held Sunday, September 14 at 11:30 AM, at Boulevard-Riverside Chapel, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, N
 REEVES-Minna. Vivid, sweet memories and deepest gratitude to my beloved unforgettable mother on her birthday.       
 DUCHACEK-Helena Kolda. Age 68, photographer and video artist, died of cancer on Thursday, September 4, in Kent, CT. Born in the former Czechoslovakia, she was the widow of Ivo Duchacek, Professor of political science at CUNY. A memorial service will be held on September 20, 4 PM, First Cong
 ERDMAN-Edna. Helped to create the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds forty-five years ago. From that moment on, Edna nurtured our growth with her honesty, judgment, love, and unfailing support. In doing so, she touched each of our lives and those of hundreds of thousands of day campers in the New Y
 LAPPAS-Wally, 92, of Ft. Lee, NJ and Palm Beach, FL, passed away on September 13, 1997. Mrs. Lappas was born September 26, 1904, in Germany, daughter of the late Anton and Philomena Kammerbauer. She came to the USA in the late 1920's and amongst various interests and endeavors she was a mod
 LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. Her name will be as a blessing for generations upon generations to come, please G-d. Margo Feiden-Cohen       
 SHAPIRO-Sue. The Elaine Kaufman Cultural Center community mourns the passing of our beloved Sue. Her involvement, commitment, and passion for the Center's students and its concerts spanned almost a half century. Her wisdom, enthusiasm, guidance and leadership will be sorely missed. Our deep
 ZEEMAN-Eta Newman, of New York and Jupiter, FL, died September 11, aged 85. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Zeeman, sister of the late Milton B. Newman and aunt of Barry Newman, she was for many years an executive secretary at Columbia Pictures in New York City. She will be deeply missed b
 REEVES-Minna. Vivid, sweet memories and deepest gratitude to my beloved unforgettable mother on her birthday.       
 BURKE-Janis Winfrey, 87, on September 11th, in West Palm Beach, FL., of heart failure. Loving aunt of Carey and Jane Winfrey and great aunt of Graham and Wells Winfrey. Prominent owner of thoroughbred horses, including Dedicate and Squared Away. Services private in Wills Point, Tx. She will
 BURNS-Muriel H. Of East 8th Street, died on August 10 in Albury, England. A mainstay of the Village Green Recycling Team, she was also an avid bridge and tennis player. Muriel came to America in 1954 and for twenty-four years ran the HB Studio office. She is much mourned by her family and f
 DOLAN-Sally (Mrs. Harry Francis Roby Dolan, Jr.), 78 years old, formerly of Wilton, CT., died on Sunday, September 14, 1997, at her home in North Palm Beach, FL. Married for 51 years, she was predeceased by her husband. Mrs. Dolan is survived by four children: Ann Tauchert of Lexington, KY;
 FINETTE-Charles. M. Beloved husband of Shirley. Devoted father of Steven and Deborah, Debra and Leonard, Barry and Sharon; beloved grandfather of Nicole, Zena, Zachary, Leah, Lucas, Elijah and Ezra; beloved brother of Florance and her husband Sam, and brother-in-law of Walter and Rose Klein
 GELSEY-Billie (Fay Charney), 97, Miami Beach, Florida. Widow of Samuel Z. Gelsey to whom she was married for 65 years, beloved mother of Helen Zirinsky and Daniel Gelsey, dearly loved grandmother of Nancy, John, William, Andrew, James and the late Jane, great-grandmother of Sara, Hanna, Sam
 LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude. American Friends of Yeshivot Bnei Akiva records with deep sorrow the passing of Gertrude Lookstein, a true Eishet Chayil who devoted her life to the Jewish People, the Torah and the Land of Israel. We extend deepest condolences to her son, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, a dedic
 MINDELL-Geraldine. On September 15, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving sister of Sarah and the late Martin David. Also survived by many nieces, nephews, great-nieces and great-nephews. Services Thursday, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St & Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in her
 NOBLE-Anna (Loughlin), age 88, on Sunday, Sept. 14, 1997, at home. She was a Lease Custodian with Charles F. Noyes Co., New York, for over 50 years, retiring in 1974. Survivors include her brother, William Loughlin, a sister, Rita Walsh, and many nieces and nephews. Moore's Home for Funeral
 Judith Merril, one of the first female writers and editors to influence the direction of modern science fiction, died on Friday in Toronto, where she lived. She was 74. During and just after World War II, Ms. Merril was the only woman associated with a group of young science fiction
 Mary Weinberger, a lifelong advocate for the rights of people with muscular dystrophy, died on Sept. 8 at the Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, N.J. She was 89 and had lived in Long Beach, N.Y. Mrs. Weinberger had been hospitalized since June, when a coronary infection was dia
 MINDELL-Geraldine. On Sept. 15, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving sister of Sarah and the late Martin David. Also survived by many nieces, nephews, great-nieces and great-nephews. Services Thursday, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in her
 NOBLE-Rose, 80, of Coconut Creek, Florida passed away on September 16. She is survived by her loving children Steve (Laura), Brad (Lois), and Marion. Devoted brothers and sisters Lou Ross, Adelle Solomon, Joe Ross, Goldyne Lipson and Jesse Ross. Cherished grandchildren Jessica and James Wal
 PRATT-Beryl Louise. September 16th, 1997, at the Isabella Geriatric Center, NYC. Donations in her memory may be made to the College of St. Elizabeth, Morristown, New Jersey where a memorial mass will be celebrated later.       
 TERRY-Frances Newton. Of Stonybrook, L.I., NY on September 15, 1997, in her 78th year. Beloved wife of the late Francis ''Deac'' Terry. Loving mother of Rev. Dr. Robert N. Terry and Anne Dee. Dear mother-in-law of Suzanne and Jon. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer, Robert II, Christina, Kri
 ADAMSON-Martha Emery, of Rumson, N.J., Sept. 15, 1997, at her late residence. Memorial services will be held Friday, Sept. 19, 1997, at 11 A.M., at St. George's By The River Episcopal Church, Rumson, New Jersey. Contributions to Planned Parenthood or SPCA of Monmouth County in her name woul
 MATTONE-Emilia, 51, Locust, New Jersey, died on September 16, 1997, at Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York, New York. Born on June 28, 1946. Beloved wife of Vincent J. Mattone, Sr., loving mother of Mrs. Michele Corvisiero, Alan and Vincent Mattone, Jr. Devoted daughter of Anthony and Helen Mascol
 OTTENHEIMER-Lilly, M.D. On September 16, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Julius. Dearest friend of Edith and Mel Smilow, Anne and Frank Weill, Lisa Loose and Eva Hauptman. Respected and loved by her many colleagues, patients and friends. Service is on Friday, 11 AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76t
 PRATT-Beryl Louise. September 16th, 1997, at the Isabella Geriatric Center, NYC. Donations in her memory may be made to the College of St. Elizabeth, Morristown, New Jersey where a memorial mass will be celebrated later.       
 QUINN-Mary Catherine (nee Ryan), 93, of Seaside Park, N.J., formerly of Westfield, NJ and San Diego, CA., died on Monday. Predeceased by her husband Frank and her son Lawrence. Loving mother of Michael, John, Kathleen McHale, Elizabeth McKenna, Ellen Quinn and Constance Hourihan. Grandmothe
 Helen Jepson, a soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera and with other American companies in the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday at the Blake Memorial Hospital in Bradenton, Fla. She was 92 and lived in Bradenton. Ms. Jepson's attractive lyric soprano, preserved on recordings of
 ALAGHBAND - ZADEH - Moussa. On September 18, 1997 at the age of ninety. Beloved husband of Touria, loving father of Helen, Parviz, Fardon, Jamshid, Fourogh, and David. Adoring grandfather of 14 grandchildren, and two greatgrandchildren. Services on Friday 9:30 AM, Sutton Place Synagogue, 22
 LANE-Shirley. On September 17, 1997. A great Jazz aficionado and friend to the artists. Former store manager of Georg Jensen, Shirley spent forty years in the home furnishings industry, most recently as the showroom manager for designer John F. Saladino. She is survived by her son Steven of
 MORRILL-Emily Lou. Age 13. Died on Thursday, September 18. Daughter of Aaron Morrill and Fran Eicholz Morrill and sister of Samuel. She is also survived by maternal grandparents, David and Helene Eicholz and paternal grandparents, Richard and Carole Morrill. Services will be held Friday, 9/
 OTTENHEIMER-Lilly, MD. We mourn the death of our colleague, teacher and friend. An outstanding psychoanalytic physician, she personified the highest ideals of medicine and psychoanalysis. Members of the Faculty The Psychoanalytic Institute, New York Medical College       
 TORTO-Andrea. The leadership of Greater Metropolitan Health Systems (GMHS) and the entire Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) family acknowledge with sadness the passing of Andrea Torto, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague, Malvina Torto. To Malvina, her mother and the entire Tort
 MONROE-Sylvia (Foxtow). Syl is not gone, she is just away. Since 1992 her captivating smile is watching over all of us. Harold Monroe and Barbara, Eric, and Scott Mogelof       
 Dr. Barbara D. Munk, an expert in the psychiatry of adolescence who worked with mentally ill mothers and their vulnerable infant children, died on Sept. 12 at New York Hospital after a seven-year battle with cancer. She was 72 and lived in Manhattan. Confronting one of society's dar
 Geraldine Mindell, who led the campaign to create the Jefferson Market Garden, an oasis of more than 200 varieties of flowers, shrubs and trees in the heart of Greenwich Village, died on Monday. She was 84. Mrs. Mindell, who lived in the Village for more than 50 years, died of lung 
 Gertrude S. Lookstein, who with her husband, Rabbi Joseph H. Lookstein, was a leader in the New York Orthodox community and active in a number of organizations, died on Sept. 9 at Mt. Sinai Hospital. She was 90. Her maternal grandfather, Rabbi Moses Z. Margolies, was the leader of C
 Myra Tanner Weiss, an unlikely Trotskyist whose radical vision of an egalitarian, collectivist society led her to organize migrant farm workers, rail against racism, make two quixotic mayoral races in Los Angeles and run for Vice President of the United States three times on the Socialist W
 SANDLER-Molly. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin; loving mother of Adele and Will; and affectionate grandmother and great-grandmother to several new generations; a beautiful spirit who sang throughout her life. We will miss you dearly.       
 van BEELEN-Sybil Grace (nee Alexander). Died peacefully on August 29, 1997 after a short illness in Delray Beach, Florida. Born in London, England on September 5, 1903. She was widowed from Pieter van Beelen on June 4, 1990. Funeral services took place in Florida at Scobee-Ireland-Potter Fu
 BAUMGARTNER-Frances. On September 20, 1997 after a long illness. She was a dedicated volunteer for over 30 years at The Lighthouse for the Blind, New York City and also was employed by Rubin Donnoley Corp. of New York City. Beloved sister of Edith O. Katz of Sarasota, Florida and Lillian Ki
 FORST-Ruth. Beloved wife of Jerry, devoted mother of Barbara and Jeffrey Peters, Jeffrey Korman, Jimmy and Helene Korman, Stephen & Ellie and Robert Forst. Loving daughter of Harriet Littwin. Dear sister of Steven Littwin and the late Cookie Grossman. Adored grandmother of Charlee, Freddy a
 GOLDSMITH-Janice Lee, 67, formerly of Manhattan and San Francisco, died September 19, at her home in Boca Raton, FL. Loving daughter of Arthur and Esther Goldstein. Former wife of Morton. Devoted mother to Ann and Jonathan. Loved by all in her family including daughter-in-law Ginny, grandda
 HEGGIE-Rose (nee Tenke), 91. Died peacefully September 20 at Britthaven of Chapel Hill, NC, where she had resided since 1994. The widow of John S. Heggie and mother of the late Dr. John F. Heggie. She is survived by her two loving daughters, Marilyn DeLalio of Fearrington Village, NC, forme
 KAMINSKY-Alice. On September 19, 1997, one day after her 92nd birthday. Beloved wife of the late Michael. Loving mother of Drs. Ruth and Nathaniel Karush, Dr. David Kaminsky and Dr. Rochelle Schreibman. Cherished grandmother of Stephanie, Melissa, Jennifer, Daniel, Deborah, Adam, Alison, Ma
 LANE-Cecile N. Of Hollywood, Florida. Beloved wife of the late Melvin V. Lane; loving and loved mother of Bill and the late Steve Lane; adored mother-in-law to Ronnie and Audrey; cherished grandmother of Jon, Hillary, Lauren and Whitney and dear and loving friend to all who knew her. She wi
 OTTENHEIMER-Dr. Lilly. In loving memory of a most extraordinary, courageous and supremely civilized lady. She was a brilliant psychoanalyst who practiced with great artistry and affection, a model to her many patients and a mentor to generations of students. We shall miss her very much. Jun
 PAVLIK-Margaret. On September 11, 1997 of North Brunswick, New Jersey. Beloved wife of Andrew J. Pavlik. Devoted mother of John A. Pavlik. Loving mother-in-law of Claribel. She is much missed.       
 PORTER-Mary F. (nee Pearson), on Friday, September 19, 1997, in Arlington, Virginia. Wife of the late Clifford L. Porter; mother of Lynn Schnepper (Howard), Lee Porter and Mary Porter; grandmother of Jane Lustig (William), John Bodman (Anne), Ann Bodman, and Carrie Bodman (Jason Lind); grea
 SANDLER-Molly. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin; loving mother of Adele and Will; and affectionate grandmother and great-grandmother to several new generations; a beautiful spirit who sang throughout her life. We will miss you dearly.       
 SCHLEICHER-Susan T. She died peacefully at home on September 9, 1997, at 94. A very special human being. Former Broadway actress (stage name Suzanne Powers), successful business executive. Wife of the late Rowell A. Schleicher, supportive mother and grandmother. In spirit, she will always b
 Laura Margolis, who helped rescue thousands of Jews fleeing persecution during World War II, died on Sept. 9 at the home of a nephew, James A. Margolis, in Brookline, Mass. She was 93 and lived in Brookline. Born in Istanbul, where her father was a doctor to the Sultan of Turkey, Ms
 DRUSS-Florence. Beloved wife of Sol. Devoted mother of Nancy and Bracha (Vicki). Beloved grandmother of Andy, Robby, Gavriel, Sara, Rochel, Dina, Shira and Binyamin. Survived by her sister Syd Denis. Please make donations in her memory to the Bernard and Edith Samers Scholarship Fund, Ameri
 DUBIN-Etheline D., on September 18, 1997. Social worker; community activist in Crown Heights; beloved wife of Dr. Marshall F. Dubin Ph.D.; devoted mother of Dr. Jonathan Dubin M.D. and Jason Dubin. Memorial to be held on September 26, 1997 at 1PM, at the Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture
 FALLON-Barbara L. (nee Hoile). Of Clifton, NJ, on September 20, 1997. Beloved mother of Linda F. Zielinski. Sister of Mrs. Elizabeth H. List. Grandmother of Kristina and Suzanne Zielinski. A memorial service will be held at St. Luke's Episcopal Church, 73 South Fullerton Avenue, Montclair, 
 OPPENHEIM-Selma. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member, Selma. On behalf of all Fairview members we express our deepest condolences to her family. Andrew J. Frankel, President Stephen A. Leber, Secretary      
 STONE-Janet. Central Synagogoue Sisterhood notes with sorrow the death of our longtime friend and Board Member. We extend sincere condolences to her family. The Sisterhood Board STONE-Janet. The Board of Directors of 16 Sutton Place Corp. expresses deepest sympathies at the passing 
 STONE-Janet Iason. September 20, 1997. Beloved wife of the late J. Jacques Stone. Her vibrant intellect, remarkable spirit and devotion to those she loved will always be remembered by her children Carol and Alan Pomerantz, and Toni and Freeman Shore, her grandchildren Michael Romano and Jul
 Kathy Keeton Guccione, who helped found Penthouse magazine in the United States with her husband, Bob Guccione, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York. She was 58 years old and lived in New York. The cause was complications from surgery to bypass an obstruction in 
 CALLIMANOPULOS-Anna P. A longtime resident of Greenwich, CT, died on September 22, in Athens, Greece. She was the adoring wife of the late Pericles G. Callimanopulos and is survived by her devoted children, Katy Mazarakis of Athens, Mary Fey of New York, Gregory Callimanopulos of Athens and
 DAVIS-Maria N. (Nee Nekos) of Summit, NJ, and South Hampton, L.I., on September 21, 1997. Wife of George A. Davis, mother of Stephen of New York City, Carol Fiske of Hartford, Conn., and Leslie Dahl of Greenwich, Conn., sister of Peter Nekos of Pleasantville, NY, and three grandchildren. A 
 FISHER-Catherine Marshall. Died suddenly September 21, 1997 while on vacation in London. She was born August 30, 1921 in New York City and spent her life in Greenwich, CT. She graduated from Rosemary Hall and Vassar College, Class of 1943. She was a past President of the Board of Trustees o
 FRANK-Evelyn A. On September 22, 1997. Loved and missed by her children, grandchildren and dear friends.       
 MOSER-Louise Klauber. With love and sadness we record her peaceful death at home in Larchmont, NY on September 20, 1997. She is survived by sons David and Ronald and grandsons Gregg and Adam. The family welcome those who knew her to her home from 3pm to 5pm on September 23, 1997 to share an
 PRIMOFF-Esther Shainer. Died September 14, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Bertram; mother of Walter Primoff and Marilyn Kohn. Loving grandmother of Douglas Kohn. She will be missed.       
 ROSNER-Maria (Mitzy) On Sept 20, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Charles. She is survived by Mr. & Mrs. Ernest Silber, Mrs. John Rosner, Mr. Leslie Rosner, Mr & Mrs. Bernard Rosner, Rachel Rosner and Adam Rosner. Services Wednesday, 12:15pm at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. & Amsterdam Ave.       
 STONE-Janet. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Janet Stone. Janet was a gracious and elegant woman who loved beauty. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Martin I. Klein, President STONE-Janet
 WILLARD-Nancy Olney, longtime resident of Katonah, died at her home in Somers, N.Y. on Saturday, September 20, 1997. She was 88. Mrs. Willard, the beloved wife of the late Charles H. Willard, was born April 13, 1909 in Dedham, MA, to Richard and Ann Olney. She was married Oct. 20, 1934 in D
 BLANK-Jeanne Webster, 77, died Sept. 22 in Albany, NY, formerly of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and Greenwich, CT. Wife of Robert H. Blank of Albany, NY, mother of Laurel B. Andrew of Guilderland, NY and Paul W. Blank (Annette Yuki Makino) of Arcata, CA., and the late Catherine Jane Blank. Grandmoth
 DAVIS-Maria N. (Nee Nekos) of Summit, NJ, and Southampton, L.I., on September 21, 1997. Wife of George A. Davis, mother of Stephen of New York City, Carol Fiske of Hartford, Conn., and Leslie Dahl of Greenwich, Conn., sister of Peter Nekos of Pleasantville, NY, and three grandchildren. A Me
 GUCCIONE-Kathy Keeton. How better to remember you, dearest friend, than with your own beautiful words: ''Surrounded by light/ Enfolded by love/Protected by the power of an angel who watches wherever you are./All is well with your world/Sleep in peace.'' Jackie, Arthur, Allan and Eddy       
 NEWMAN-Naomi. On September 23, 1997 in Kingston, NY after a long battle with leukemia. She is survived by her devoted daughter Darya Panesoff and will be deeply missed by her many friends. Services will be held September 25 at 2 P.M., at The Woodstock Jewish Congregation.       
 OPPENHEIM-Selma. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a dear friend who, with her beloved husband, Henry, was a Fellow of our Sy Syms School of Business. Dedicated to the advancement of higher education and the welfare of the Jewish people, they established SSSB's Sel
 STONE-Janet Iason. September 20, 1997. Beloved wife of the late J. Jacques Stone. Her vibrant intellect, remarkable spirit and devotion to those she loved will always be remembered by her children Carol and Alan Pomerantz, and Toni and Freeman Shore, her grandchildren Michael Romano and Jul
 TURINGAN-Jean, M.D. It is with profound sorrow and a deep sense of regret that we, the Board of Trustees, the Medical Staff and the entire Bronx Lebanon Hospital Center family mourn the passing of Dr. Jean Turingan, Deputy Director for Quality Assurance and Residency Training and an attendi
 BROMBERG-Suzanne. It is with deep sadness the League for the Hard of Hearing and advocates for better communication (abc) mourn the loss of a leader and friend. Her advocacy efforts touched the lives of thousands of people who are deaf and hard of hearing. We extend our heartfelt sympathies
 DRUSS-Sylvia. Congregation Kol Ami Jewish Community Center of White Plains records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and convey sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Mark Hershey, President       
 GOSS-Virginia Johnston, at Sanibel, FL., on September 23, 1997. Formerly of Waterbury, CT., she was the wife of the late Richard Wayne Goss. She is survived by two sons, Richard W. and Porter J., 2 daughters, Wayne G. Douglas & Garril G. Page, 13 grandchildren and 11 great grandchildren, al
 LIPSON-Morris. A special person, a special friend, you will be missed. Our hearts go out to Dottie and her family. Gloria and Richard       
 MACNEIL-Jane Moore, on September 24, at 79, at her home in Manhattan. Daughter of the late Stewart Charles Moore and Edna Hart Moore of Aliquippa, Penn. A superb golfer, she won numerous awards and championships in her amateur career, including Pennsylvania and Ohio championships from 1936-
 OPPENHEIM-Selma. The Board and executive staff of the Educational Alliance mourn the passing of the beloved mother of our Vice President, Steven D. Oppenheim. May her memory bring comfort to Steven and all her loved ones.       
 PEARSON-Marilyn (nee Weisenseel), 69 years. Formerly of Stamford, CT. On September 22, 1997 in San Luis Obispo, CA. Beloved of Henry Gillis. Adored mother of Mark and Suzanne. Loving sister of Richard Weisenseel. Former wife of Kenneth Pearson. Fervid supporter of the Economic Opportunity C
 POLANSKY-Mollie. She was a woman of such strength of character that even the powerful were humble in her presence. Her selflessness was unparalleled. Her kindness knew no bounds. Her commitment was such that she could move mountains. Her loss is incalculable to so many. I thank her for havi
 VANDERBILT-Helen C. It is with the deepest sadness that Housing & Services, Inc. (HSI) bids farewell to one of its founding Board members, Helen C. Vanderbilt. Helen will be remembered always in the hearts and minds of the thousands she touched for helping the least able in our society to h
 VEERHUSEN-Pamela, 75, a long term executive with Planned Parenthood died September 19, in Chicago. Mrs. Veerhusen moved in 1971 from the Minneapolis affiliate to the national office of Planned Parenthood in New York. There she served in various capacities including Director of Affiliate Ser
 AMBROSE-Sharon. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Sharon Ambrose on September 23, 1997. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Private services were held. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre T
 BROMBERG-Suzanne W., of Rockville Centre, New York. The officers, Board, and members of Self Help for Hard of Hearing People/South Nassau Chapter mourn the loss of Sue Bromberg on Saturday, September 20. Sue served as President for three terms, and chaired both our Advocacy and Legislation 
 DRUSS-Sylvia Schofler, 101 years, September 24, 1997 in Riverdale, NY. Beloved wife of the late Louis A. Devoted mother of Viola Rosenheck and the late Adelle Wolff. Dear mother in law of Alfred R. Wolff, and the late Dr. Kenneth Rosenheck. Adored grandmother of six grandchildren and sixtee
 NOVEMBER-Lillian Reiss. In addition to being a loving mother and devoted grandmother she was a loving sister to Ida and Louis Bobrow of Jamaica Estates, New York and Lake Worth, Florida, and Bess and Herman Glaster of Delray Beach, Florida.       
 PEARSON-Marilyn (nee Weisenseel), 69 years. Formerly of Stamford, CT. On September 22, 1997 in San Luis Obispo, CA. Beloved of Henry Gillis. Adored mother of Mark and Suzanne. Loving sister of Richard Weisenseel. Former wife of Kenneth Pearson. Fervid supporter of the Economic Opportunity C
 RATNER-Goldie. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation mourn the passing of Goldie Ratner, beloved mother of Shelly Ratner, who has been a dedicated leader and generous supporter of UJA-Federation as Co-Chair of our Apparel Division and as the former Captain of our Vanguard Solicitors Cl
 SCHEIN-Thelma Bresenoff. With love and sadness we record her peaceful death at the Hospice of Beth Israel Hospital, NYC, on Sept. 22, age 79. She was retired from the NYC school system, where she'd been a librarian-teacher for many years. Her daughter Louise Schwartzman pre-deceased her by 
 VOGLIO-PIRO-Rose. A charming, beautiful, special person. Cherished mother of Rose, Lillian and Diane. Beloved mother-in-law of Ronald, Salvatore and Paul. Adored grandmother (nana) of David, Michele, Mark, Melissa and Salvatore. Dear sister of John. Loving aunt of many nieces, nephews, and 
 Shirley Clarke, an Academy Award-winning filmmaker, a champion of independent filmmaking and a missionary for video as a force in communications, died on Tuesday at the Palliative Care Center of Beth Israel Deaconness Medical Center in Boston. She was 77 and lived in Carlisle, Mass.        
 AMBROSE-Sharon. The force behind the successful Music Resources Division of EMI Music Publishing. Raised in Worcester, MA., Ms. Ambrose attended the University of Connecticut and received a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theater in 1968. Her early positions in New York City were with Internationa
 CONROY-Ossie Ray, of Manhattan, formerly of East Setauket, L.I., on September 25th in her 81st year. Devoted wife of the late Vincent P., beloved mother of Vincent, Harry, Helen Del Guercio, Frances Conroy and mother-inlaw of Nicholas Del Guercio and Jan Munro. Dear grandmother of Nicholas,
 LAZAR-Ellen. It is with profound sorrow that we announce the untimely passing of our beloved Ellen. Devoted wife of Laurence. Cherished mother of Jason and Jodie. Dear sister of Susan, Michael, and Robert. Loving daughter of Sylvia Heidenberg and wonderful friend to many. Her life was fille
 JACOBS-Hal Martin. On September 25, 1997. Interior designer, former Hollywood producer and active fund raiser for various charitable causes. Brother to Bernice and her husband Herbert Jones, uncle, great-uncle and friend of many. Services Monday, 12 noon, at ''Riverside Memorial Chapel,'' 2
 KIRCHNER-Merian. On September 25, 1997. We cherish the memory of a gentle and courageous lady who enriched the lives of all who knew her, including her late and beloved husband, Engelbert, his family, her nieces and nephew, and her extended family of friends. That family grew to embrace rea
 LAZAR-Ellen. It is with profound sorrow that we announce the untimely passing of our beloved Ellen. Devoted wife of Laurence. Cherished mother of Jason and Jodie. Dear sister of Susan, Michael, and Robert. Loving daughter of Sylvia Heidenberg and wonderful friend to many. Her life was fille
 MacNEIL-Jane Moore, on September 24, at 79, at her home in Manhattan. A memorial service will be held at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue (81st Street), on Sunday, September 28, at 3:30 PM.       
 PAN-Yupu, Dr. On September 24, 1997. Survived by beloved sons, Daoyang and Daojun, dear sisters, Yuchun and Zhaomei, grandchildren, Lihong, Ying, Wei and two great grandchildren. Retired from the United Nations in 1976 after twenty-seven years of service. She will be greatly missed by her f
 STECKLER-Vera Chizinsky. Seventy-one, on September 2. She is survived by her sister Ruth and daughters Claudia, Laura and son Paul. Send donations to the Vera Steckler Scholarship Fund: DANCECLEVELAND, 1148 Euclid Ave, #       
 JASPAN-Dr. Jeanne Rafsky. Congregation Kehilath Jeshurun, its Sisterhood, Men's Club and Couples Club mourn the passing of our senior member, the granddaughter of the late Harry Fischel, the beloved wife of our former Trustee, Norman Jaspan, and the dear mother of our Trustee, Michael Jaspa
 SCHWARTZ-Phyllis (Fayge) Cotliar. Woman of valor, beloved wife of Shimmon Schwartz and mother of Chava Rena, Leah Brocha, Yitzchak, Binyamin, Tova, and Moshe, passed on Friday, September 26. She will be dearly missed by her father and mother, William and Eleanor Cotliar, Shelly Cotliar, Art
 BERMAN-Doris. On September 28, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Louis; devoted mother of Faith Lieberman & Philip Rosner; loving grandmother and great grandmother. Services are today, at 2 P.M., at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, L.I. In lieu of flowers, donations may be mad
 FINER-Sylvia. Passed away in Israel on 9/27/97. The devoted daughter of the late Jacob and Frances Arond, beloved wife of the late Rabbi Morris H. Finer, mother and mother-in-law of David and Miriam Finer, Bennett and Paula Finer, and Sharon and Yoel Ben Avraham, adoring grandmother of 11, 
 GARDNER-Nettie, of Brooklyn, NY, September 28, 1997. Devoted wife for 63 years of Dr. Hyman Gardner; beloved mother of Michael, Marjorie (Joel), and David (Debra), and grandmother of seven. Founding president of Shalom Group of Hadassah and president of Brooklyn Central Chapter of Hadassah.
 HERMAN-KALB-Marilyn I. Ever the director and creator, wife of Carlton C., mother of Alissa S. Herman Levine and her husband Bob. Sister of Renee Hoffmann Lenoble and Shirley Kalb Klepel. Caring aunt and good friend. Services were held Monday, September 29, 1997, at the ''Dix Hills Chapel'' 
 JASPAN-Dr. Jeanne Rasky. ARIEL Institutes deeply mourns the passing of the beloved mother of Michael D. Jaspan, our devoted treasurer, longstanding member of our board of governors and a piilar of strength to our efforts in the United States and in Israel, and our board member, Ronald Jaspa
 LARRABEE-Eleanor Doermann. Architect and college trustee, died September 27 at Saint Vincent's Hospital in New York. She was 74 years old. She died of head injuries after being struck by a car on September 13th. Mrs. Larrabee began architecture practice in 1955 at the Office of Charles H. W
 PALM-Marie C. On September 29, 1997, at home in Bedminster, NJ, Marie, age 49, died after a long struggle against cancer. A resident of Summit, N.J., she is survived by her loving husband Greg and daughters Jennifer and Katherine, of NYC and Summit, respectively, as well as her parents Stev
 REICHMAN-Stella Jolles. Died September 9 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Henry Reichman. Loving mother of the late Thomas and Steven, grandmother of Jamie. Memorial service Wednesday, October 1, Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave at 81 Street at 2PM. Contributions in her memory m
 ROSENTHAL-Peggy. On September 28, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Herbert M. Rosenthal. Devoted and loving mother to son Alan. Cherished sister of John and Joanne Meyer. Loving aunt to her niece and nephews and many friends of the Young Adult Institute. Memorial services are on Wednesday, 1 
 VANDERBILT-Helen C. The South Forty Corporation mourns the passing of Helen C. Vanderbilt, a founding member, director and former chairperson who, along with her late husband, William, was a tireless advocate for the disadvantaged and the guiding spirit of an organization that has helped th
