 Tory Dent, a poet, essayist and art critic whose verse told of life with a diagnosis of H.I.V. and of the struggle to keep her creativity alive, died last Friday at her home in the East Village. She was 47. The death was announced by her husband, Sean Harvey. The cause was an opport
 Candy Barr, an exotic dancer whose hardscrabble life became Texas legend as she befriended Jack Ruby (who killed President John F. Kennedy's assassin), dated a mobster, shot her husband went to prison for drug possession, and starred -- unwillingly, she insisted -- in a famous stag film, di
 Muriel Costa-Greenspon, a mezzo-soprano who was a fixture at the New York City Opera for 30 years, died on Dec. 26 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 68. Her death was due to natural causes, said her son, Stefano Costa. A reliable character mezzo, Ms. Costa-Gree
 Birgit Nilsson, the Swedish soprano with a voice of impeccable trueness and impregnable stamina, died on Dec. 25 in Vastra Karup, the village where she was born, the Stockholm newspaper Svenska Dagbladet reported yesterday. She was 87. A funeral was held yesterday at a church in her
 Shelley Winters, who once described her life as a ''rocky road out of the Brooklyn ghetto to one New York apartment, two Oscars, three California houses, four hit plays, five Impressionist paintings, six mink coats and 99 films,'' died yesterday. She was 83, although some sources say she wa
 Anne Meacham, an actress whose notable stage appearances included roles in the original production of Tennessee Williams's ''Suddenly Last Summer'' and Eva Le Gallienne's 1964 Broadway staging of ''The Seagull,'' died on Thursday at her home in Canaan, N.Y. She was 80. Her death was
 Joan Root, an animal lover and conservationist who collaborated with her husband, Alan, on a series of wildlife documentaries in the 1970's, was killed Friday in Naivasha, Kenya. She was 69. Ms. Root was shot to death by assailants who invaded her lakefront farmhouse, the police sai
 Erica Reiner, an internationally renowned scholar of Assyrian, one of the world's oldest written languages, died on Dec. 31 at her home in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago. She was 81. The cause was lung cancer, according to the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago, 
 Joan Maynard, who shepherded the preservation of the remnants of Weeksville, a once-thriving 19th-century community of free blacks in Brooklyn that had faded from maps and memory, died on Sunday at her home in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. She was 77. Her death was confirmed by Pamela Gr
 Andrea M. Bronfman, an internationally noted philanthropist, died on Monday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in Manhattan. She was 60 and had homes in Manhattan; Palm Beach, Fla.; and Jerusalem. The police said that Mrs. Bronfman died of injuries she sustained after sh
 Nellie Y. McKay, a distinguished scholar and critic who helped secure a place for African-American women in the modern literary canon, died last Sunday at a hospice in Fitchburg, Wis. She was a resident of Madison, Wis., and was believed to have been in her mid-70's. The cause was c
 Beth Fallon, a political reporter and columnist whose thrice-weekly columns in The Daily News and The New York Post brought an irreverent eye to city life in the 1970's and 80's, died Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 64. She had been in declining health for more th
 Neyda Martinez, a guidance counselor in the Bronx whose efforts to encourage her students to seek a college experience beyond the city was the subject of an article on the Education page on Dec. 28, died Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 54. The cause was cancer, ac
 Wendy Wasserstein, who spoke for a generation of smart, driven but sometimes unsatisfied women in a series of popular plays that included the long-running Pulitzer Prize winner ''The Heidi Chronicles,'' died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 55 and li
