 Grete Sultan, a pianist and teacher who was both a performer of Bach and Schubert and a mentor to John Cage and his contemporaries, died in her sleep at St. Vincent's Hospital last Sunday morning. She was 99. ''Basically, her heart gave out,'' said Robert Jurgrau, a former student a
 Nan Kempner, one of New York's most serene hostesses and clotheshorses, a glittering fixture at social events and fashion shows on both sides of the Atlantic for decades, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 74. The cause was emphysema, said her husband, Thomas. A heavy smo
 Frances Langford, a mellow contralto who ventured into combat zones with Bob Hope's troupe during World War II and the Korean and Vietnam Wars to serenade tens of thousands of servicemen with ballads that reminded them of the girls they left behind, died yesterday at her home in Jensen Beac
 Geraldine Fitzgerald, a feisty, gravel-voiced Dublin redhead who drew instant acclaim in her first Hollywood films, including a 1939 Oscar nomination for ''Wuthering Heights,'' before carving out a long, varied career in films, television, cabaret and theater, died on Sunday afternoon at he
 Elizabeth Blodgett Hall, an educator who concluded that bored high school students should be sent straight to college and started Simon's Rock College to prove the point, died on Monday in Canaan, Conn. She was 95. Her death was announced by Judith Monachina, spokeswoman for the col
 Mary T. Washington, a bookkeeper who in the 1920's began methodically surmounting racial barriers in business to become the first African-American woman to be a certified public accountant and the head of one of the largest black-owned accounting firms in the nation, died on July 2 at a nur
 Edith I. Spivack, a tireless lawyer who worked for the New York City Law Department from 1934, when few other women were government lawyers, until last year, when she reluctantly stopped showing up four days a week, died on Tuesday at St. Francis Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 95.     
 Hildegarde, whose career as an international cabaret chanteuse spanned almost seven decades and who was credited with starting the single-name vogue among entertainers, died on Friday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital. She was 99. Her death was confirmed yesterday by he
