 Agnes Eisenberger, a manager of classical musicians who was the president and owner of Colbert Artists Management, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 79 and lived in New York City and Pawling, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said Charlotte Schroeder, who succee
 Mary Wesley, the popular British author whose sensual and often bitingly witty novels were not published until she reached her 70's, died on Monday in Totnes, Devon, her hometown in rural southwest England. She was 90. Born Mary Aline Mynors Farmar, an Army officer's daughter, she w
 BERMAN - Evelyn. Laura Osinoff has great sorrow in announcing the death of her mother, Evelyn Berman (nee Borenstein) in Delray Beach, FL on Dec. 29, 2002. She is also survived by her devoted husband, Abraham Berman, of Delray Beach, FL and Columbus, New Jersey. Evelyn was a dedicated teach
 JACKSON-Diane B. The National Association of Social Workers, NYC, mourns the death of former Board Member. Her spirituality, courage, and candor inspires us. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to her family.       
 JULIANO-Mary. December 30, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Pasquale Juliano. Mother of Edward Juliano and Edna Vincenti. Grandmother of Michele and Michael Juliano and John and Paul Vincenti. Great-grandmother of Mark and Christian Juliano. Visiting at Fairchild Funeral Home, 1570 Northern B
 MACKELLAR-Anne Marie, 78. Of 9 Stephanie Lane, formerly of New York City and Germantown, NY, died Sunday, December 29, 2002, at her home. She was the widow of Robert MacKeller. Born March 13, 1924 in Waterbury, CT, she was a daughter of the late Garry and Elizabeth Muckle Dickinson. She gra
 O'KEEFE-Sr. Maureen, Little Sisters of the Assumption. On December 29. Entered the Order in 1953. A lifelong dedication to the sick, poor and needy as a caretaker in the home. She obtained an MSW from Fordham and became skilled in law & government to better serve those without access to eit
 Mary Brian, a film star and memorable ingénue who bridged the silent and early sound eras, died on Monday in Del Mar, Calif. She was 96 and lived in Los Angeles. Between ''Peter Pan'' in 1924 and ''Dragnet'' in 1947 Ms. Brian appeared in 82 films. Petite, with blue-gray eyes and da
 ANCOWITZ - GERASIMOVA Irina, M.D., Ph.D. passed away in Pamplona, Spain at the Clinic Universateria, after a long illness. She was born in St. Petersburg, Russia and obtained her medical degree at The First Medical School where she later became an Assistant Professor, lecturing on biology. 
 ANDREADIS-Alicia. Beloved sister of Marisa and Raisa, who deeply mourn her passing. Alicia was one of the outstanding Ukrainian opera artists of her generation and she will be sorely missed. Tenzer Family Blahove Family       
 GIDDINGS - Renee. The Board of Governors and the members of the Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Renee Giddings. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her family. Ted Markson, President       
 HILLSON-Mildred. 91, December 30, 2002 in West Caldwell NJ. Survived by Henry, her husband of 67 years, children Louise Werlin and Jean Ellis and grandchildren Jonathan, Rachel and Rebecca. Sister of Helen Harris and the late Dr. Leonard Harris. Cousin of Vilma and Mike Levine, Dr. Charles 
 WEIXEL-Lola. 81, on December 23, 2002. Beloved wife of David. Loving mother of Eugene and Miriam. Grandmother of Goldie, Rose and Joanna. Aunt, great-aunt, sister-in-law and friend to many. A welder during WWII, known as ''Rosie the riveter'' for her role in the classic documentary of that 
 BERTELSMANN - Elizabeth C. The administration, trustees, and alumni/ae of Bard College deeply mourn the passing of long-time friend and colleague Elizabeth Bertelsmann, who for more than 35 years was a beloved and respected member of the Bard community. A photographer, author, teacher, and 
 BUSCHMANN - Lucille A. Loving widow of the Honorable Albert H. Buschmann Sr, Justice of the New York State Supreme Court, died December 27, 2002. Beloved mother of Mary Lu Prescott, Albert Buschmann, Angele Gilroy, Dina Buschmann and Lois Buschmann. Adored grandmother of five. Loving sister
 CARTER - Winifred (nee Trimble), 70, Died after a long illness on Tuesday, December 31, 2002 in Houston, TX. She was born on April 12, 1932 in New York City, NY and attended Bryn Mawr and the Sorbonne. A life long conservationist, Mrs. Carter served on the Board of the World Wildlife Fund d
 CHESSLER-Lila. On January 1, 2003. She is survived by her husband Seymour, children Wayne (Valarie) and Andrea and brother Mitch (Roz). Services 11:30AM today at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to VNS Hospice, 107 East 70th St
 MILLER-Belle. Age 97. Beloved wife of the late Al and devoted mother of Deborah and the late Nancy. Also survived by her nephews Peter Miller, Stanley Barry Burros and their families. Graveside services today, 1 PM, at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, New York.       
 SHAPIRO-Muriel. Age 85. On December 29, 2002. Wife of the late David Shapiro. Mother of Ann Leda and Lee Harris. Mother-in-law of Gloria Barczak. Grandmother of Zachary. An exceptionally creative woman, poet, artist, humanitarian, involved in social and political activities. She will be dea
 SMELSER-Hailey Mae. Of Goldens Bridge, NY born on August 20, 2002, died on December 31, 2002. She was 4 months and 11 days old. Hailey was born with a genetic disorder known as Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA). Hailey possessed a smile and a set of the brightest, clearest most telling eyes. Sh
 Dr. Eleanor J. Gibson, a psychology professor at Cornell who made advances in the study of perception and learning processes in children, died on Dec. 30 in Columbia, S.C. She was 92. Photographs of the ''visual cliff,'' a device she developed to study depth perception in infants an
 BERMEL-Carol J. On January 2, 2003 of Garden City, NY. Survived by her brother the Honorable Richard Conway Casey, her children Mary Katherine, Marcia, Charles, Ellen, Christopher, Janet, Elizabeth and Thomas and nineteen grandchildren. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Ave., at 12
 BLY-Estelle S. Of New York (formerly of Great Neck) age 91. Loving widow of Saul Bly died peacefully on January 3rd, after a brief illness. Beloved mother of Linda Boxenbaum (Lewis) and Susan Obel (David). Adored grandmother of Nancy Rotenier (Robin), David Boxenbaum and Karen and Kenneth O
 DAVIS-Betty. Of Wilmington, DE., formerly of Stuyvesant Town, NY. Died January 1, 2003. She is survived by one daughter, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren and two sisters. Mass will be offered at Corpus Christi Church, in Mineola, NY., on Monday morning, January 6, 2003 at 9:45
 JAINSCHIGG - Janet Gem mell, 94. Of Chester Village West, Chester, CT., former resident of Darien, CT., where she was a leader of historic preservation efforts and Red Cross fundraising activities died December 30. She served as Chairman of Volunteers, Darien Chapter of American Red Cross, 
 LEOPOLD-Jutta. The members of the Quadrille Committees are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of their dear friend and Committee member, Jutta Leopold. Particularly her spirited advice and fine humor will be missed at our meetings. We are fortunate to have known her. Our deepest sympat
 STARFIELD-Eva L. (nee Illions). On January 2, 2003, in her 95th year. Wife of the late Martin J. Starfield, cherished mother of daughters Barbara and Phoebe, and loving grandmother of Robert, Jon, Steven and Deborah Holtzman. She is also survived by her five sisters and brothers, son-in-law
 ALFOND-Anne Loewengart. On January 3, 2003. Beloved daughter of the late Julius and Thea Loewengart. Sister of the late Robert Loewengart, and loving mother of Steven. Anne was a lifelong resident of Manhattan and a graduate of Upsala College. She was a producer of the Herb Sheldon Show and
 BATES-Barbara, M.D. Died December 18, 2002 at her home in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. A native of Auburn, New York, Dr. Bates earned her BA at Smith College in 1949, then completed medical studies and residency training at Cornell University Medical College in New York City. Barbara Bates gain
 BLY-Estelle S. Of New York (formerly of Great Neck) age 91. Loving widow of Saul Bly died peacefully on January 3rd, after a brief illness. Beloved mother of Linda Boxenbaum (Lewis) and Susan Obel (David). Adored grandmother of Nancy Rotenier (Robin), David Boxenbaum and Karen and Kenneth O
 BRAESTRUP - Elsebet Kampmann, 94. Peacefully on Jan. 2, 2003 at the Whitney Center, Hamden, CT. Beloved wife of the late Carl Bjorn Braestrup, physicist. Born December 18, 1908 in Copenhagen, Denmark. Predeceased by her son Peter, and survived by her daughter, Ellen Braestrup Strickler of N
 DOUGLAS - Jane Conner. Wife of the late Edward M. Douglas. Died on 12/25 at her home on Martha's Vineyard.       
 DOUGLAS-Shirley. Age 79. Beloved mother of Tedra, Howard, Susan and Ellen. Beloved grandmother of Lori, Richard, Amy, Michele, Kimberley and Bradley. Survived by her sister Fran Rago. Funeral at Schwartz Bros., Forest Hills, NY, Sunday, January 5, 2003, 10 AM. She will always be in our hear
 EISENBERGER-Agnes. On December 26. Peacefully in New York. Of Colbert Artists Management. ''In sweet music is such art.'' She was an adored and inspiring mentor, greatly loved by her friends and family. Janet Fanto, Eleonore & Nina Lederman, Maggie Noach, Irene & Bob Sinclair, Christopher S
 ENNIS-Teresa M. (nee Perrone). Of The Bronx, N.Y. died on January 3rd, 2003 at the age of 76. Her daughter, Patricia M. Engel, (wife of Congressman Eliot L. Engel) and her son George Joseph Ennis III (wife Katherine) and four grandchildren survive her. Friends may visit Burr Davis Sharpe Fu
 GETOFF-Hannah. November 8, 1915-December 27, 2002. Died at the age of 88 at the Isabella Nursing Home in Manhattan. Daughter of the late Henry and Bessie Getoff, older sister of Hyman of Van Nuys, CA, and Louis of Sedona, AZ, and aunt of Sarah, Maria, Michael and David and ward of the devot
 GIBSON-Eleanor Jack. Died December 30, 2002, age 92. Born in Peoria, IL., she was an experimental psychologist who received the National Medal of Science in 1992. Author of five books on perception, infant developent, and reading, Dr. Gibson was educated at Smith College and held a Ph.D. fr
 GRAHAM-Allan S., M.D. On Tuesday, December 31, 2002 in Frederick, MD. Dr. Allan S. Graham, M.D., beloved husband of Marion Graham, father of Sally Graham and her husband Daniel Willis of Boston, MA., Mary Graham of San Francisco, CA., and James Graham of Brooklyn, NY. Stepfather of Lynn Fur
 HARRIS-Evelyn (nee Ginsberg). On January 3, 2003. Beloved wife of Sam, adored mother of Lloyd and Scotty, loving sister of Libby, cherished grandmother of Brett, Jamee, London, Jesse and Jonathan, and great-grandmother of Taylor. She will be loved and remembered by all of us.       
 HEIMERDINGER - Greta. Died January 2, 2003 at the age of 98. Among her survivors are four grandchildren, her loving cousin Herman Goldschmidt of NYC and nephew Dennis Goodman of London, England. Services private. Donations in her memory may be made to Self Help Community Services, Inc., 520
 KARPOFF-Betty Alden. Illustrator and graphic designer, of Croton on Hudson, NY, Cooper Union class of 1942, died December 28th at the age of 82 after a long illness. Survived by her husband of 58 years, Herbert; sons David and Jonathan; and grandchildren Joshua and Ruane. A memorial service
 LEFF-Eleanor (nee Wiesen). Died at home on January 3, 2003 at the age of 94. Beloved wife of the late Carl, adored mother of Marjorie Miller and Maxine Myers; motherin-law of Morgan Miller; devoted sister of the late Lillian Leff, Seymour, Irving and Sherman Wiesen; sister-inlaw of Mae, Tob
 PATTERSON-Mary Marvin Breckinridge. On December 11, 2002 at her residence in Washington, D.C. Widow of Jefferson Patterson. Mother of Patricia M. Patterson and grandmother of Ian Patterson. Predeceased by her son Mark J. Patterson. A memorial service will be held at the National Cathedral o
 ROSOWSKY-Isabel (Ross). 104. On January 2, 2003. Born in the 19th century, she spent 100 plus years in Brooklyn where she began to teach in 1918 and where she retired after 40 years at David Boody Junior High School. 1934 saw her greatest world wide tour. Longtime member of the Brooklyn Soc
 SCHLEIFER - Florence. 83. Died January 1, 2003. Beloved wife of Charles B. Schleifer for fifty-four years. Devoted and loving mother of Dr. Lawrence M. Schleifer and Dr. Leonard S. Schleifer (Harriet), grandmother of Adam and David, sister of Milton (Rhoda) and Robert (Letty) Schacht, aunt,
 SEIDENBERG - Gloria H. (nee Shine). On January 4, 2003, after a long and courageous battle with CLL. Beloved wife of the late Jerry, loving mother of Jane Seidenberg and Susan (Rick) Adler, devoted grandmother of Jacob and Leah Adler, caring sister of Roberta Kunin and Warren Shine. Teacher
 SHIFF-Betty. Artist and fierce supporter of civil liberties, loving wife, sister, mother and adoring grandmother. Champion of the arts, she created her own world, filled it with joy and energy, and encouraged all she touched to be free. We miss you. Your loving children, Lizbeth and James. 
 TOFFEL-Hattie. 90. Of Lawrence, New York, and Palm Beach, Florida, passed away on December 30th, 2002. She is survived by her loving husband Harry, daughter Sandra Kaiser, brother Harold Friedman, sister-in-law Yetta Epstein, grandchildren Kenneth, Andrew and Stacy Kaiser and great-grandchi
 VALENSTEIN-Alice Sternberg, 98, wife of the late Lawrence Valenstein, founder of the Grey Advertising Agency, died peacefully at home on December 24. She had lived in Scarsdale NY for over 60 years. She was known in the community as a prize-winning artist. Survived by two children, John Val
 VARIO-Elizabeth Bohrer. A longtime Chappaqua resident, passed away January 4, 2003, at Westchester Medical Center. She was 81. Elizabeth, known as Betsy to her friends and family, was born in Manhattan, on March 19, 1921, to Dr. John V. and Laura Smith Bohrer. She resided in Shrub Oak in ea
 ZITO-Nancy De Marinis. Passed away at home in Warren, VT, on January 1, 2003, at the age of 94 years. She was born in New York City on August 15, 1908. Mrs. Zito graduated from Hunter College with a B.A. in languages in 1930, and, subsequently, an M.A. in French. She was a language teacher,
 NIGHTINGALE-Bertha. In loving memory January 5, 2001. Death ended her indignity, abuse and torment. Pray for the victims of home health care. No rights, no protections, no justice. Ever remembered. home-care-nightmare.com       
 Yayori Matsui, a journalist and campaigner for the rights of Asian women, died on Dec. 27 at a Tokyo hospital. She was 68 and a resident of Tokyo. The cause was liver cancer, said an associate, Norma Field, professor of Japanese studies at the University of Chicago. Dr. Field said M
 GOLDSTEIN-Beverly. On 27 Tevet. Devoted wife of Rabbi Dr. Noah Goldstein zt'l, loving and beloved mother of Rivka Weiner, Dr. Harris (Elisheva) Goldstein, Hannah (Dr. Jonathan) Cohen, Dr. Marsha (Dr. Craig) Basson, Leah (Dr. Akiva) Weichselbaum, and Sarah (Eli) Leibowitz, adored grandmother
 HANDAL-Hilda. Remarkable wife of the late Victor B. Great mother of Douglas, Kenneth, Diane, Peter. Wonderful grandmother of Christian, Aimee, Brianne, Kolbe, Stephen, James and greatgrandmother of Isabella and Lola. Please celebrate her life with us: Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, Ja
 HARRIS-Evelyn. Her exquisite natural beauty, grace, and gentle ways will be forever remembered. The laughter shared, whenever the Feldmans, Harrises, and Platts were together will never be forgotten. With love and great sadness, Evelyn (''Little Boss'') and Asher Platt       
 KOTKIN-Jean Somerville. A leader in the American Ethical Union, the American Humanist Association, and the New York Society for Ethical Culture, she passed away at the Roosevelt Hospital of the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center in New York City on Saturday January 4, 2003. She was 80. Bor
 KRAMER-Ruth Elizabeth, nee Zeitlin, died at home January 4, at the age of 90. She led an active and productive life characterized by optimism, interest in life, people and the world, and concern for those less fortunate. A paradigmatic good citizen and neighbor, Ruth will be sorely missed b
 LEFF-Eleanor (nee Wiesen). Died at home on January 3, 2003 at the age of 94. Beloved wife of the late Carl, adored mother of Marjorie Miller and Maxine Myers; motherin-law of Morgan Miller; devoted sister of the late Lillian Leff, Seymour, Irving and Sherman Wiesen; sister-inlaw of Mae, Tob
 LEVINE-Trude C. (Kassowitz). Age 95, on January 5, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Levine. Devoted sister of the late Ilona Kassowitz Gottlieb and Robert Kassowitz. Loving stepmother of Julia Levine Golden and Ronald and Barbara Levine. Adored by her stepgrandchildren Eliot and Char
 MARCUS-Harriet Haber. On January 4, 2003, formerly of Riverdale, NY. Beloved wife of the late Archie Marcus. Devoted mother of Daniel (Sandra) and Paul (Paula). Adored grandmother of Craig (Karen), James (Lori), Wayne (Ragi), Jacob and Lenni. Cherished great grandmother of Olivia, Nathaniel
 SLOAN-Sally. 87. Beloved wife of the late Max. Loving mother of Phyllis and the late Marilyn. Cherished grandmother of Patti, Mitchel, Roxanne, Randi and Michael. Great-grandmother of Marissa, Meredith, Natalie, Melanie, Molly, Max, Amanda, Bailey and Benjamin. She will always be in our hea
 SPIEGEL-Evelyn. 88, of Scarsdale, NY, died peacefully on January 3, 2003, at the Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, NY. Beloved wife of the late Leo Spiegel, devoted mother to her sons Robert Spiegel of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY, Dr. Edward Spiegel of Scarsdale, NY, Dr. Allan Spiegel of P
 STUART-Jozefa Marya Malinowska. On November 23, 2002. Beloved wife of Walker Stuart. Mother of Diana, David, Sebastian and Rebecca Stuart. She was a truly extraordinary woman. Memorial celebration of her life on January 11, 2003, at Faulkner House, 255 Goddard Ave, Brookline, MA; 617-232-11
 YUNIS-Lynne. On January 4, 2003. Beloved wife of Stuart. Dear mother of Harvey and Rachel, Eve and Dick, Jonathon and Lynn and Miriam and Jim. Adored grandmother of Judith, Jacob, Louis, Joseph, Sam, Zackary, Benjamin, Kody, Cassie, and Joshua. Services today, 10 AM, at Sunset Chapels, 1285
 BLINDER-Joan Goodman. A program commemorating her life will be held on January 14, at 5:15 PM, The Harvard Club, 27 West 44th St. Friends and family are welcome.       
 Jean Kerr, whose wry wit and unerring eye for life's everyday absurdities kept legions of readers and theatergoers laughing with books like ''Please Don't Eat the Daisies'' and plays like ''Mary, Mary,'' died on Sunday in White Plains. She was 80. The apparent cause was pneumonia, h
 Nearly 50 years after the death of her son, Emmett Till, who was murdered and thrown into a river in Mississippi, Mamie Till Mobley died here today, still clinging to the hope for justice. She was 81. The Rev. Jesse Jackson, speaking tonight at a news conference on behalf of the fam
 DIBNER-Esther L. Of Portland, Maine, died on January 4th after a short illness. She was 89. Mrs. Dibner was born and raised in Brooklyn and subsequently moved to White Plains. She and her late husband, Paul A. Dibner, operated two children's summer camps in Maine, Tall Timbers, for boys, an
 DISHMAN-Eleanor Bracken (White). Died on January 4, 2003 at the age of 86. Wife of the late Richard Dishman, sister of the late Elizabeth White, Marie Ryckman and John B. White, Jr. and mother of the late Edward (Ned) Dishman. She is survived by seven children: Ricia McMahon of Washington, 
 GREENHOUSE-Eunice. Beloved wife of Dr. Charles R. Greenhouse. Survived by daughters Shelley Lotter of Briarcliff Manor and Jamie Dresner of Short Hills; stepchildren Nancy, Wendy, and Lee Greenhouse; and seven grandchildren. Her generous spirit will be missed. Funeral at Ballard-Durand, Whi
 HARRIS-Evelyn. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President       
 LEFF-Eleanor. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Eleanor Leff, a cherished friend who expressed an unwavering commitment to Jewish and humanitarian causes. With her late husband Carl, who was a beloved leader of UJA-Federation and 
 LEWIS-Evelyn. With broken hearts we mourn the loss of our most special friend. We cherish our wonderful memories of her. Evelyn will live in our hearts forever. With undying love, Lenore and Gil Horowitz       
 MacNAUGHTON-Lillian F., 81. Of Larchmont, NY, died on January 2, 2003, her family at her side. Adored mother of Ruth, Laura and Amy. Devoted sister of the late Rudy Feichtner. Retired in 1991 from Con Ed, after 22 years. Visiting hours Wednesday, January 8, 2-4 and 7-9 P.M. at Fox Funeral H
 SHIELDS-Elizabeth Marcie. Born in the Summer, Marcie shed warmth and light on the many lives she touched. She faced life with strength and humor and her own was a full life of challenge and adventure; a lesson in hope, courage & love. Elizabeth Marcie Shields, 33, of Arlington, VA passed aw
 SLOAN-Sally. Her natural beauty will long live on through her daughter Phyllis and her grandchildren. With the fondest of memories she will always be remembered. With love and affection. Hilda and Irving Sloan       
 TASHMAN-Jaqueline (nee Chopak). Died on January 5, 2003 in Boca Raton, FL. Predeceased by her husband Saul Tashman. Beloved mother of Maxine Tashman and the late Leonard Tashman. Beloved sister of Willa Trestman and sister-in-law of Edward Trestman. Dear aunt of Abby Heijnen, Pieter Heijnen
 WEYL-Liselotte. The Institute For Psychoanalytic Training And Research (IPTAR) mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague Liselotte Weyl. Liselotte was the widow of Dr. Simon Weyl, and escaped from Holland during the second World War. She studied in England with Edward Glover and Anna Freud.
 BLUMBERG - Ruth (nee Golding). Of Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of White Plains and Port Chester, New York, on January 6, 2003, survived by her sister Florence Weitzner, her children Elaine Bobrove, Arthur Katz and Stanley Katz, her seven grandchildren and her eight great - grandchildren. F
 BROOKS-Hazel M. Died on December 23, 2002 in Atlanta, GA. Formerly of N.Y.C. Daughter of the late Eugene Brooks and Lola Futrell Brooks. A graduate of Fisk University, she worked for Fisk in research and public relations. Later she joined the staff of the March of Dimes/ Birth Defects, reti
 FAULKNER-Dora E. On January 6, 2003. She leaves to mourn seven children and twelve grandchildren. Loving companion, for 37 years, of Ronald Miller of New York City. Loving sister of three brothers and four sisters. Also survived by numerous nieces and nephews. She will be deeply missed by a
 GREENHOUSE-Eunice. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Eunice Greenhouse. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband, Charles and to the entire family. James M. Dubin, President Richard J. Bronstein, Secy
 GRUMBACH - Adele. She died peacefully at home in Miami Beach, FL in her 102 year. Beloved wife for over 65 glorious years of Emanuel Grumbach. Devoted mother of Dr. Melvin and Lee Grumbach. Dear mother-in-law of Madeleine and Gloria. Loving grandmother of Ethan, Dr. Kevin, Anthony, Steven G
 LEFF-Eleanor. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Life Member, and extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Ronald M. Stuart, President Joyce Baumgarten, Sec'y       
 LEWIS-Evelyn. The family of Evelyn Lewis announces with great sorrow her passing on January 5, 2003 after a long battle with cancer. She was a wonderful wife, mother, grandmother, daughter, sister and friend. She touched everyone she knew and will never be forgotten. LEWIS-Evelyn. T
 MacNAUGHTON-Lillian F., 81. Of Larchmont, NY, died on January 2, 2003, her family at her side. Adored mother of Ruth, Laura and Amy. Devoted sister of the late Rudy Feichtner. Retired in 1991 from Con Ed, after 22 years. Visiting hours Wednesday, January 8, 2-4 and 7-9 P.M. at Fox Funeral H
 MESSMORE-Dorothy, January 6, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Francis B. Messmore, loving mother of Pamela and her husband Peter J. Tobiason, cherished grandmother of Peter J. Tobiason Jr., devoted sister of Gertrude H. Lynch and loving aunt of Dana L. McKelvy. The family will receive friends
 NOSSITER-Jacqueline. Age 76, died Tuesday, January 7, 2003 in San Francisco, after a long illness. She was the widow of former New York Times and Washington Post reporter Bernard D. Nossiter. She is survived by her sons, Daniel of Washington, DC; Joshua of San Francisco; Adam of New Orleans
 ROBBINS-Barbara, 81 years old. Of Manhasset, N.Y. and West Palm Beach, Florida, passed away on January 6 at her Florida home. A devoted wife of 55 years to her husband Donald, a loving and caring mother to her sons Richard and James, and their wives, Nancy and Ilene, a proud and loving gran
 ROSNER-Bernice. The Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extends heartfelt sympathy to Harriet Becker, Board Member of the Gurwin Jewish Fay J. Lindner Residences, on the loss of her mother, Bernice. Condolences to the entire family. Lawrence Simon, President, Gurwin Center Joseph Gurwin, Chairma
 ASH-Sylvia. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and benefactress, Sylvia Ash. Together with her beloved husband Ernest, they provided important p
 BAKER-Mary Bentley. Died on January 7, 2003 in NYC. Wife of the late Robert Lynn Baker. Survived by her daughters, Ellen Baker and Susannah Bell, her granddaughter, Tabor Tompkins Story, her sons-in-law, James Sweeney and James Bell, eight nephews and a niece. Mass on Monday January 13, 10 
 DANTO-Mitzi nee Goldreyer. Wife of the late Jules. Mourned by her daughters, Amy (Michael Hundert) and Sally (Michael Clancy), her grandchildren, Julie and Joshua Hundert, and Justis and Jacob Danto-Clancy, her brothers, Harvey Dreyer and Leonard Goldreyer. Companion of Wim de Vrijer. Servi
 ELDER-Barbara Jean (Hawkins). January 4, 2003. 73 years of age, of Manhattan. Originally from Portland, OR. A veteran of the Korean War, US Army Nurse Corps. She is survived by her husband of 45 years George, her children Scott, Janet and John and two grandchildren, William and Sierra. Ther
 GILLEN-Dorothy Anne Vorbach on January 6, 2003 of Sacramento, CA. Formerly of Ridge, NY and Forest Hills, NY. Beloved wife of the late Henry G. Gillen. Loving mother of Marijo Anne Gillen, Ph.D., M.D. Cherished sister of Virginia Naylor, Eileen Petullo, John L. Vorbach Jr., the late Margare
 PENNEY-Julia, 91 in Stamford, CT January 7th. Beloved wife of the late Horace F. Penney, loving mother of Marcia and Richard, proud grandmother of John, Paul, and Peter, and delighted great-grandmother of Scarlett, Eloise, and Celeste. A founding member of The Greenwich Art Society, where s
 PHILLIPS-Lucretia Jett. New York University mourns the passing of Lucretia Jett Phillips, retired professor of social work and associate dean at the Shirley M. Ehrenkranz School of Social Work. Her dedication to her students and the social work profession will be remembered by us all. We ex
 TARSHIS-Helene Kulok. following a valiant battle with Parkinson's on January 7, 2003. Survived by her devoted husband, Joseph M., mother of Nancy and Seth Zachary, Patty and Andy Haddock, Paul Lefrak, Andy and Pat Tarshis, Nancy and Mitch Schley. Proud grandmother of Hayley, Ross, Jordan, A
 Sarah McClendon, the tiny, klaxon-voiced White House reporter who covered, pestered, lectured and often infuriated presidents since Franklin D. Roosevelt, chiefly as the leader of her one-woman McClendon News Service, died today at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center here. She was 92.      
 BERMAN - Lois. Beloved bride of David Berman for 56 years, passed January 9, 2003. Born in Peabody, MA, she graduated from Salem State Teachers College. She served in the Red Cross in the Pacific during W.W. II. After the war, she moved and married in New York and started a successful liter
 BUCHANAM - Lucie (nee Trincellita), January 8, 2003. 92. Widow of Douglas Charles Buchanan, beloved mother of Douglas, Jane, and the late Charles, grandmother of Nicholas. Formerly of North Bergen, NJ, she resided in Manhattan. Appreciated for her fine and lively mind, and creative spirit, 
 ELDER-Barbara Jean (Hawkins). January 4, 2003. 73 years of age, of Manhattan. Originally from Portland, OR. A veteran of the Korean War, US Army Nurse Corps. She is survived by her husband of 45 years George, her children Scott, Janet and John and two grandchildren, William and Sierra. Ther
 GILPATRIC-Miriam Thorne. Died Tuesday, January 7, at her home in New York City. Mrs. Gilpatric was born in Clinton, IN. She led an active and interesting life and traveled widely with her three devoted and prominent husbands. Her first husband and the father of her children, Fulton Cahners,
 LANDER-Margaret Slade. On Wednesday, January 8, at her home in Manhattan, at the age of 89. Former head of the Personal Shopping Department and the Control Center at Macy's, in her retirement active quiltmaker and member of Empire Quilters. Widow of William Hall Lander of New York City; mot
 ROBBINS-Alyssa Amelia. Of New York City. Born September 10, 1975 in Atlanta, GA, passed away January 2, 2003. She was a contemporary folksinger/songwriter, a writer, an artist, and a teacher. She was loved by many friends and relations in particular her partner, Jeffrey Akers, her mother Ca
 Witchel-Ruth. (nee Goodman) on January 4, 2003. Ruth has left us to join her beloved Jess. A dedicated elementary school teacher, Ruth was as well an exlemplary mother and mother-inlaw, an excellent cook, a fine knitter and superb grandmother. She will be cherished and missed by her son Car
 CHARLES-Bernice. Loving wife of Ray for 62 years; devoted mother of Michael, Jon and Wendy; doting grandmother of Claire, Annalily, Clover and Jonathan; best friend to daughters-in-law Lake and Maureen, and brother Bob Rosengarden, sister Joan Meyer and sisters-in-law Audrey Newman and Shar
 EISER - Charlotte. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Cherished mother of Henry. She was a devoted wife and a wonderful mother. A dedicated teacher and a lover of life. Graveside services, Sunday, 1PM at Wellwood Cemetery, Pinelawn, Long Island.       
 LEVY - Beatrice. Beloved wife of the late Walter. Mother of Ronald and Peter, mother-in-law of Fran and Wendy. Sister of Elaine Harris and Anne Green. Loving grandmother of Benjamin and Jacob. She will be missed by all who knew and loved her. Services Sunday, 1:00 PM at Central Synagogue, 4
 SHAPIRO-Elsie. On January 10, 2003. Beloved wife of Nathan for 45 years. Adored mother of Janet, Robert and Ellen. Dear grandmother of Cooper, Keeton & Benjamin. Funeral services to be held on Monday, January 13th at 1:30 PM, Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 81st St. and Madison. Donations i
 SUSKIND-Ida Levine. It is with great sadness that the Suskind family marks the death of their Matriarch, Ida Suskind. Ida died quietly on January 9 in Bridgehampton, NY, where she moved permanently a few years ago. Ida grew up on Staten Island, where she lived with her late husband, Morris 
 Monique Wittig, a French writer and literary theorist whose imaginative, fiercely innovative books tried to create a new mythology for the feminist movement, died Jan. 3 in Tucson. She was 67 and lived in Tucson. The cause was a heart attack, said Sande Zeig, her partner. In
 BUCHANAN - Lucie (nee Trincellita), January 8, 2003. 92. Widow of Douglas Charles Buchanan, beloved mother of Douglas, Jane, and the late Charles, grandmother of Nicholas. Formerly of North Bergen, NJ, she resided in Manhattan. Appreciated for her fine and lively mind, and creative spirit, 
 DISKIN-Mary C. 88, of Westhampton Beach, NY, and Havertown, PA, on January 10, 2003. Predeceased by her husbnd of 59 years, Thomas A. Diskin, and is survived by four children, Thomas Diskin, Dover, NH, Mary Freeman, San Diego, CA, Anne Smalley, McLean, VA, and Peter Diskin, Havertown, PA; e
 FRYER-Dr. Katharine Homer, passed away on January 5, after a long ordeal with ovarian cancer. Dr. Fryer obtained her doctorate from NYU and taught at that institution and at C.W. Post. Since 1995 she has been Director of the Fryer Research Center, a healthcare organization that offers a bio
 FURMAN - Dorothy. Born June 12, 1917, died January 10, 2003, in Sarasota, FL. A former resident of Lake Mohegan, NY, she was the beloved wife of the late Abraham Furman and sister of the late Rhoda Zak and Burton Loesberg. Her loving children Andrea, Kim and Daniel, and grandchildren Erika,
 GLADSTONE - Jeannette. The Samuel and Sara Gladstone Family Circle notes with sorrow the death of our Aunt Jeannette, wife of Murray. She is the last of the original twelve & their spouses.       
 HESSEL-Miriam. Beloved wife of the late Alexander. Mother of Judy and Nomi, mother-in-law of Stephen and Andrew, loving grandmother of Samantha, Jeremy and Jonathan. Sister of Estelle Berger. She will be missed by all who knew her and loved her.       
 MacWILLIAMSON - Helen. 100 years old, she passed away January 7. She loved her friends and they loved her. Robert Lone       
 MELZER - Joan G. (nee Strauss). Of Stamford, CT, formerly of Riverdale, NY, died peacefully, at age 86, on January 11. Beloved wife for 52 years of the late Dr. Hyman Melzer and loving sister of Sydnee Gordon. Devoted mother of Jane Appel and Robert Melzer, mother-in-law of Fred Appel and J
 MESSIQUA - Marcia (nee Stein). On January 10, 2003. Loving mother of Betsy Levenson Kogan of London, England, and Short Hills, NJ, and Sarah Levenson Yonover of NYC. Devoted grandmother of Benjamin Kogan, Eli Kogan and Jaden Yonover. Dear sister of Leslee Stein Kass and Geoffrey Stein. Niec
 MOGER-Madeleine. On January 8, 2003. Beloved wife of Robert Abrams; loving mother of Andrew; sister of Barbara Parker; sister-in-law of Ben Parker; aunt of Joanna; and dear friend of many. Services on January 12, 3 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave. Donations to Central Park
 POTASH-Marilyn. On January 11, 2003. Beloved wife of Philip. Mother of Patti and Debbie. Mother-in-law of Howard Jacobowitz and Michael Turner. Grandmother of Sari, Jeremy, Adam, Amanda and Joshua. Sister of Pearl Banker and David Banker. A mentor to all in her career, family, friends and h
 ROBINSON-Joan A. Butler, 69, in Manhattan, on January 7, 2003, of lung cancer and pneumonia. We wish to thank her friends for their support and friendship to our mom. We will all remember her wisdom, compassion and zest for life. Her sons, Adam, Matthew and Noah       
 SHAPIRO-Elsie. On January 10, 2003. Beloved wife of Nathan for 45 years. Adored mother of Janet, Robert and Ellen. Dear grandmother of Cooper, Keeton & Benjamin. Funeral services to be held on Monday, January 13th at 1:30 PM, Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 81st St. and Madison. Donations i
 SULLIVAN-Agnes, 91. Died peacefully at home on January 10. Formerly of Worcester, MA. Survived by her daughter, Carol M. Sullivan, and her partner, Janice Masvidal, grandson Jake, brother William Ryan, many nieces and nephews. Funeral at Athy Memorial Home, Worcester.       
 SUSKIND-Ida Levine. It is with great sadness that the Suskind family marks the death of their Matriarch, Ida Suskind. Ida died quietly on January 9 in Bridgehampton, NY, where she moved permanently a few years ago. Ida grew up on Staten Island, where she lived with her late husband, Morris 
 TAUB-Frieda. Died January 4, 2003 in New York. She rescued children in Europe for Youth Aliyah during the Holocaust, worked with the leadership of the Jewish Agency in the US and communicated love to everyone whose life she touched. Burial and services in Israel. Contributions in her name t
 Witchel-Ruth. (nee Goodman) on January 4, 2003. Ruth has left us to join her beloved Jess. A dedicated elementary school teacher, Ruth was as well an exlemplary mother and mother-inlaw, an excellent cook, a fine knitter and superb grandmother. She will be cherished and missed by her son Car
 FINN - Suzanne S. (nee Straus). Beloved wife of Martin, loving mother of Robert and Stephen Finn, and daughters-in-law Daryl and Denise. She also leaves a sister, Betty Salzer, and five grandchildren, Kate, Megan, William, Emily and Daniel. She will be sorely missed by so many people who lo
 GINSBERG - Pearl. Loving wife of Albert for 55 years. Devoted mother of Liane, Larry and Hilary. Loving grandmother of Sean, Sara, Daniel, Heather, and Josh. Cherished sister of Ruth Cramer and Harry Teicher. Loved by her daughter-in-law Lisa, son-in-law Joe and her granddaughter-in-law Sus
 KORFINE-Phoebe Barkham. With profound sorrow her family and friends grieve the loss on January 10, 2003, at the tender age of 31, of this dear wife of Jordan, cherished daughter of Betsy and Graham, devoted sister of Scott and idealistic and fiercely loyal friend to all who loved her.      
 RUDNITSKY-Shana. National Credit Manager of Kem Manufacturing, beloved wife of Howard, retired, Senior Editor of Forbes magazine; mother of Jennifer Haftel and Daniel Rudnitsky, mother-in-law of Benjamin Haftel, loving grandmother of Jeremy, Joshua and Jack, passed away on January 11, 2003,
 SCHWARTZ-Adria. Age 56, on January 11, at home. Beloved by family, friends, patients, students and colleagues for her intellect, warmth and wit. Adria practiced psychoanalysis in Manhattan for 25 years. She leaves behind partner Rima Shore, son Alex Harlan Schwartz, brother Stephen Schwartz
 SHAPIRO-Elsie. On January 10, 2003. Beloved wife of Nathan for 45 years. Adored mother of Janet, Robert and Ellen. Dear grandmother of Cooper, Keeton & Benjamin. Funeral services to be held on Monday, January 13th at 1:30 PM, Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 81st St. and Madison. Donations i
 STEIN-Celia. Founder, with her husband David, of The Riverdale Press, and the newspaper's guiding spirit from 1950 to the present, died on January 11, at her home in Riverdale. Her efforts helped win new schools and protect a special neighborhood. In turn, she was honored by virtually every
 SUSKIND-Ida Levine. It is with great sadness that the Suskind family marks the death of their Matriarch, Ida Suskind. Ida died quietly on January 9 in Bridgehampton, NY, where she moved permanently a few years ago. Ida grew up on Staten Island, where she lived with her late husband, Morris 
 VOSE-Pamela Daly. Formerly of New York City and Quogue, LI, died at La Jolla, CA, January 11, 2003, at age 72. She attended the Masters School in Dobbs Ferry, NY, of which she was a trustee in the 1970's, and was a member of the Class of l951 at Smith College, Northampton, MA. She graduated
 AVERY-Sally Michel. The Board of Trustees of the Skowhegan School of Painting & Sculpture expresses their sincere condolences to the family on their loss. A respected Trustee for 20 years, Sally's generosity has helped innumerable young artists. We honor her life and cherish her memory. Ann
 BRODSKY-Ruth. Of Boca Raton, Florida and Mohegan Colony, New York. On January 10, 2003. Beloved wife of Leonard. Loving mother of Bill and Linda and spouses Lois and Doug Schneider. Cherished grandmother of Kim, Keri, Scott, Brian and Jason. Sister to Helen and Terry. Her kindness, love and
 DARST-Susan McGinnis, 89. Died peacefully on January 11. A 43-year resident of Nashville. Widow of Guy B. Darst. Beloved mother of Guy B. Jr., David M., Charles L., Daniel S. and the late James M. Darst. Dear grandmother of Elizabeth, David Jr., Devin, Winnie, Owen, Jim and Kathryn. She wil
 FINKELSTEIN-Matilda B. On January 12, 2003. Beloved wife of Isador for over 70 years, devoted mother of Herbert and Lois and daughter-in-law Iris and son-in-law Morton, cherished grandmother of Amy, Stacy and Sarah and their husbands Jeffrey, Michael & Mark. Loving great-grandmother of Davi
 FINN-Suzanne S. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Martin, her sons Stephen and Robert, her daughters-in-law Daryl and Denise, and her family. Ronald M. Stuart, 
 GILPATRIC-Miriam Thorne. The Board of Trustees, Executive Director and the staff of the National Foundation for Facial Reconstruction deeply mourn the death of Mimi Gilpatric. She served as a boardmember for 13 years and her dedication and generosity were both respected and appreciated. We 
 KINNE-Evamaria, Prof. Dr. nee Saffran. A great heart full of joy, love and caring has stopped beating. Although it is incomprehensible to all of us, we must announce that Prof. Dr. Evamaria Kinne nee Saffran passed away on December 6, 2002 at the age of 61. Her family is grateful for the sy
 LEIDY-Grace A. Age 92, of Kennett Square, PA, died on Thursday, January 9, 2003, at Crosslands in Kennett Square, PA. Born in Baltimore, MD, she was the daughter of the late Charles and Katherine Hart Leidy. She was a 1932 graduate of Hunter College where she received her B.S. majoring in B
 MARKEL-Norma. On January 11, 2003. Beloved daughter of the late Rachel and Joseph Markel, adored sister of Barbara Hart and her husband Stanley W. Hart, dear aunt of Charles and the late Simon.       
 MIRAGLIA-Ben L. Of Mahwah, N.J., formerly of Washington Township, N.J. on January 13, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Marie (nee Naro) who died in 1993. Devoted father of Marie Zwerling and her husband Gary of Franklin Lakes, N.J. and Judy Jakaitis of Mahwah, N.J. Loving grandfather of Ca
 PICKER - Doris Silberman. On January 12, 2003 at age 81. Veteran of World War II and the Women's Army Corps. Survived by children Susan (Burt), Barry (Robin) and David (Grace) and grandchildren Jason, Rori, Marshall, Craig and Jeremy. She will be deeply missed.       
 SCHILD-Alice. On Jan. 13, 2003. It is with great sadness that our family marks the death of Alice Schild, sister of Marge and Bob LeVine and Lore and Mel Mallin, loving aunt of many nieces and nephews. She was a world traveler and a business woman who lived and died her way. She will remain
 SCHUSS-Beatrice. Beloved wife of the late Murray. Loving mother and mother-inlaw of Howard and Elena, Eric and Robin, David and Sheila. Devoted grandmother of Taylor, Melani, Jena, Justin, Samantha, Matthew, Miles and Jordan. She will forever remain in our hearts. Services today, 10 AM, at 
 SCHWARTZ-Adria, Ph.D. Esteemed colleague, devoted therapist and beloved friend, died on January 11th. Adria participated in founding the Relational Orientation of the NYU Postdoctoral Program, where she was a supervisor. Her work on gender, sexuality, and social forces was a significant con
 ARMOUR-Alexandra Lester. Beloved daughter of Julia Henry Armour of Coconut Grove, FL died in Honolulu, HI. on January 4, 2003, aged 56 after a long illness. She is also survived by her brother Philip D. Armour III of Kaneohe, HI, her sister Julia Armour Walker of Washington, CT, four nephew
 AVERY-Sally Michel. The MacDowell Colony honors the life of Sally Avery, colony fellow and director emerita. The Milton and Sally Avery Fellowships at MacDowell support the residencies of outstanding painters and carry on her creative spirit.       
 CHAMPAGNE-Lorraine A. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York mourns the passing of Lorraine A. Champagne, its long-time secretary/administrator, and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. May she rest in peace. John H. FitzSimons, Pres Henry F. White, J
 ESMERIAN - Virginia Sieg man. Died peacefully at home on Sunday, January 12th in her 100th year. Beloved mother of Jacqueline, Edward and Ralph. Cherished grandmother of Eric, Pierre, Anne, Cynthia, Philip, Edward and Frederic. Loving greatgrandmother of 14.       
 GINSBERG-Pearl. Sincerest condolences to Liane, Larry and Hilary on the loss of their beloved mother, a woman of dignity and grace. A Diamond Founder of the Medical Center, her outstretched hand of kindness in support of the Department of Emergency Medicine, made a lifesaving difference to 
 GORIN-Deborah (nee Babus). Beloved wife of the late Alvin. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Gail and David Furman, and William and Jody Gorin. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan, Allie, Alexander, Matthew and Gabrielle. Devoted to her friends and extended family who will miss her warmth an
 HEDDENS-Cornelia Vanderbilt (nee Davis). Passed into Divine Embrace at 6:20AM on Wednesday, January 9, 2003. She is survived by her three children, Claudia V. McCain (Ketchum, ID.), Henry D. McCain (Seattle, WA.) and Charles S. McCain III. (Nashville, TN.), and her half sister Grace Vanderb
 MILLER - Eileen. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 MISULIA-Mary, 85 years. On January 6, 2003, the Epiphany. Beloved wife of the late John. Loving aunt of Richard and Ronald. Loved by many at the Chai Adult Home. She will be missed by all who knew her.       
 NELSON-Estelle (Sis). Wife of the late Martin. Mother of Michael and Joan Nelson, Barbara Nelson Wright and Stephen Wright. Grandmother of Dan, Sarah, Jenny, Emily, Chris and Laura. Sister of Ruth Zucker, Morty Shapiro and Joan Glaser. Adored by nieces and nephews. We will miss her spirit a
 RODE-Ann Pryor, 96. Of Yorkville, Manhattan died on January 12. Mrs. Rode, an Eastside District Leader for more than fifty years, represented the Yorkville neighborhood with passion and courage her entire life. Mrs. Rode was one of the first women elected District Leader in New York County.
 ROSEN-Linda. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member, Linda Rosen. We extend our deepest condolences to her family Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan Emeritus Toni Wiener, President       
 STEIN-Ceil. A woman of commitment, initiative, integrity. I shall miss her Riverdale Press recipes & warmth of her glowing smile. Condolences to the Stein family. Joyce Liskin STEIN-Celia. It is with heavy hearts and much sadness that the Board of Directors and staff of Riverdale Ne
 ESMERIAN - Virginia Sieg man. Died peacefully at home on Sunday, January 12th in her 100th year. Beloved mother of Jacqueline, Edward and Ralph. Cherished grandmother of Eric, Pierre, Anne, Cynthia, Philip, Edward and Frederic. Loving greatgrandmother of 14.       
 GINSBERG - Pearl. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a most cherished friend of its extended family. Together with her late husband, Al, an esteemed member of our Board of Directors and its Executive Committee, Pearl identified with Boys Town's mission of helping disadvantaged Israel
 KRAUS-Hanni, 83. Of New York City. On January 14, 2003 after a brief illness. Loving wife of the late Hans P. Kraus. Beloved mother of Mary Ann Folter, Barbara Gstalder, Eveline Rauber, Susan Nakamura and Hans P. Kraus, Jr. She is also survived by her sister Dorit Cohn, twelve grandchildren
 MILLER-Eileen (nee Eskow). After her courageous battle against brain cancer, died peacefully on January 14, 2003, at age 47. Precious and beloved sister of Valerie and husband, Jim O'Halpin, sister, Karen Seader and sister, Laurie, and husband, Michael Getlan. Her good humor and passion for
 ROSENBERG-''Billie'' (Frances). Deceased at age 89 of a lengthy illness in Mt. Vernon, New York, January 14, 2003. Loving mother of Merri. Cherished mother-in-law of Kenneth Hupart. Adored grandmother of Jacob and Ruth Hupart. Predeceased by her beloved husband, Jacob, and daughters Marian 
 STAMBLER-Anne Bershad. 91. Died January 13, 2003 at home. Beloved widow of Sigmund, loving mother of Helen Lynne of NYC, devoted aunt and great aunt. A lifelong resident of Philadelphia, she will be greatly missed by her family and friends. Donations may be made to National Dance Institute,
 VOSE-Pamela Daly. The Masters School mourns the passing of our alumna and former Board member, Pamela Daly Vose. A talented and devoted member of the class of 1947, she left us too soon. We will miss her. Susan F. Morris, Chairman Maureen Fonseca, PhD, Head of School       
 ALTEMUS-Gertrude Mercer ''Gipsey'', on January 8, 2003. Residence: 1276 Green End Ave, Middletown, R.I. Ms Altemus is survived by her five children: Michael HuttenCzapski, Lowie Crisp, Bondi Macomber, Sarah Vanderveer and Stuyvie Vanderveer. A Memorial Service will be held on Saturday, Janu
 BRODSKY-Kay. Died January 16, 2003. My beautiful beloved wife, a great mother and grandmother to our two children and four grandchildren. She was my best friend and the love of my life. I will miss her and love her 'til the day I die. Irv.       
 FARBER-Esther. We mourn the untimely passing of our Vice President and beloved friend, Esther Farber. A founding Board member, Esther was a woman of great strength and courage, dignity and elegance. She was a skilled writer, editor and publicist and a committed Orthodox feminist for over th
 KRAUS-Hanni, 83. Of New York City. On January 14, 2003 after a brief illness. Loving wife of the late Hans P. Kraus. Beloved mother of Mary Ann Folter, Barbara Gstalder, Eveline Rauber, Susan Nakamura and Hans P. Kraus, Jr. She is also survived by her sister Dorit Cohn, twelve grandchildren
 LEE-Chiyun. Passed Monday, January 13, 2003, approximately 11:30pm, at the age of 26. Struck and killed by a truck on E. 3rd Street near First Avenue in Manhattan. Beloved youngest daughter of Joon Young and In Ok of the Bronx. One and only sister, in spirit and blood, always of Chisun. Che
 LEVY-Schirley B. Beloved wife of Marvin, devoted mother of Ilene and Steven. Services Sunday, January 19th, at 9:30 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. LEVY-Schirley B. Congregation Emanu-EL of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our c
 PETTERSEN-Eleanore Kendall. Beloved friend, mentor, renowned architect, founder of the architectural firm Design Collaborative and protege of Frank Lloyd Wright died at her home in Saddle River, NJ on January 15, 2003 at the age of 86. She was the first woman to open her own architectural p
 ROBERTS-Cornelia M. On January 14, 2003 at age 100. Wife of the late William Bryce Roberts, born in Vienna, Austria 1902. Dear friend, excellent equestrian and American patriot. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, January 18 at 10AM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st S
 Eleanore Pettersen, a New Jersey architect who helped lead the way for women in her profession, died on Wednesday at her home in Saddle River, N.J. She was 86. In 1950, Ms. Pettersen, who had worked as an apprentice to Frank Lloyd Wright, became one of the first women to be licensed
 STANLEY-Lila Jean of Plymouth January 1st, age 75. She is survived by a nephew Hamilton S. White of Syracuse, New York. Nieces Laura McSweeney of West Granby, Connecticut and Sarah Chadwick of Schnectady, New York and cousins Frank Stanley of Canton, Connecticut and Courtney Stanley Brady o
 STRASSER-Stella. Born September 9, 1910; died December 28, 2002. An electronics engineer, nationally recognized as an expert in the field of signal analysis, she became the top salaried woman scientist at US Army Engineering Laboratories at Ft. Monmouth and was one of the first women recipi
 ALLEN-Eileen E. Died January 17, 2003. Beloved sister of Catherine (Kay) Allen of Manhattan. Daughter of the late John and Laura Allen. Visitation Monday, 2-4 and 69pm at Krtil Funeral Home, 1297 First Ave, NYC. Mass of Christian burial, Tuesday, 10AM, at St. John the Evangelist Church, 55t
 BAUMANN-Wilma. September 29, 1910 to January 14, 2003. She was a keen birder and a lovely human being. Her friends will miss her. Lore J. Schore       
 HILLMANN - Martha, 94. Passed away in Naples, FL on January 3rd, 2003. Formerly of Brooklyn and Mattituck NY. She was born January 16th, 1908 in Bardonia to Alfred and Martha Kimpel. Martha is survived by her daughter Doris Guggliatta of Long Island, NY, sons Niles Hunold of Marco Island, F
 KATIMS-Ruth, nee Ohsie. New Yorker, died January 13th, in Santa Monica, CA, a stroke victim. She is survived by three children, four grandchildren and her husband of 48 years. Funeral at Catskill New York, January 22. Memorial service: Ethical Culture Society, 2 West 64th Street, NYC schedu
 KILGORE - BOUE - Amelie Beatrice (daughter of Marcia Kilgore and Thierry Boue), was born January 12, 2003, at 3:45 PM, with feet that were too little for her shoes. So instead of waiting for them to grow, she chose to head straight for heaven. We wish you could have met her.       
 LEWIS-Sylvia. On January 7, 2003 at age 86. Proud WWII veteran, dedicated to community service, independent spirit, long-time New Yorker, wonderful family member and friend to many. We will miss you. Memorial service February 16th, 3PM, at the 92nd St Y. Donations may be made in her name to
 MANNHEIMER - Martha. Born October 9, 1905. Died January 17, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Adolf. She is survived by her son David Fried and daughter Elaine Block, and five grandchildren.       
 MILLS-Ruth. 89, of North Salem, NY, on January 17. Wife of the late A.S. Mills. She is survived by a daughter, Beverley Galban and a son, Anthony Mountain. She is also survived by her brother Warren Pond. Memorial Service being arranged at St. James Church, North Salem.       
 ROBERTS-Cornelia M. On January 14, 2003 at age 100. Wife of the late William Bryce Roberts, born in Vienna, Austria 1902. Dear friend, excellent equestrian and American patriot. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, January 18 at 10AM, Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st S
 SAMES-Suzanne. Died on January 13, 2003 after a long illness in Green Valley, AZ. Preceded in death by her companion, Edward G. Clark. Mourned by devoted friends in New York and Arizona. Burial in Centralia, MO.       
 WENIG-Prof. Mary Moers. Died January 18. Wife of Jerome Wenig and sister of Ellen Moers Mayer (both deceased). Mourned by her children Rabbi Margaret Moers Wenig and Michael Moers Wenig and their respective spouses, Rabbi Sharon Kleinbaum and Dr. Brenda Ballachey, and her grandchildren Liba
 BERNSTEIN-Hermine K. Remembered with love on the 100th anniversary of her birth. Her spirit and wisdom will always be in our hearts. The Family       
 HEIFERMAN-Celia, (nee Friedman). It has been one sad and lonely year since the death of our beloved Mother, Grandmother and Great-Grandmother. She was a gentle and gallant lady who was admired by all who knew her and deeply loved by those lucky enough to have known her well. She left us a l
 SHAPIRO-Muriel. Memorial to celebrate her life at Ethical Culture, 2 West 64th St., Saturday, January 25th at 1:30 PM.       
 Françoise Giroud, a widely admired French journalist who co-founded the political weekly L'Express and later served as France's first minister of women's affairs, died Sunday in the American Hospital of Paris. She was 86. Her daughter said the cause of death was head injuries suffe
 BELLUCCI-Patricia A. January 17, 2003. Beloved daughter of the late Maurice J. and Loretta V. Burns. Sister of the late Mary Jane Brady. Mother of Patricia M., Kathy, Ronald, Richard, Robert, Raymond Bellucci and Carleen Krueger and Diane Grandelli, and also survived by 13 grandchildren who
 BENSON-Phyllis. 61, of Atlanta, formerly of Mount Vernon and New Rochelle, NY, passed away on January 19, after a lengthy illness. She was the devoted wife of Ed for 40 years. Loving mother of Wendy Goldman and Richard Benson and loving mother-in-law to Brent Goldman and Melinda Benson. One
 BYSTRYN-Sara. Died on January 17, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Iser, she is survived by her children Jean-Claude (Marcia) and Denise Kandel (Eric); her grandchildren Paul Kandel (Emily), Minouche Kandel (Rick), Anne and Alex and her great-grandchildren Allison, Libby, Izak and Maya. Her i
 COHEN-Jay Michael. 65, of New York City, on January 17. Beloved husband and best friend of Helen. Loving father of Larry and Andy. Caring father-in-law of Martha and Donna. Proud grandfather (Pops) of Teddy. Devoted brother of June Yohay and dear brother-in-law of Leonard Yohay and Arlene a
 DAVIDSON-Stephanie. This tragic passing has touched us all so deeply. Your memories will live in hearts forever. Our deepest condolences to Paul and little Spencer, her sister Nanielle, and her parents Sam and Roberta. Scott, Jane, Tracy and Allison DAVIDSON - Stephanie. To my darli
 GRANAT-Ruth. Ruth left us on January 18, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Stanley Granat. A bundle of energy wrapped in a butterfly's cocoon. She will be cherished and missed by her daughters Jill Handelsman and Leslie Granat, son-in-law Martin Handelsman, family and many dear friends. Servic
 KAPPRAFF-Pearl. Age 91, died on Saturday, January 18, at her home. Pearl had a uniquely wonderful spirit and delighted everyone with her great sense of humor and cheerful disposition. Her devotion to Murray allowed him to lead a long, meaningful and joyous life. We cannot express enough our
 MAUSS-Evelyn Abrams. 87. Her loving family and countless others who relied on her spirited energy will miss her. Lifelong peace activist who received her Sc.D. from Johns Hopkins Public Health in 1941. For more than 30 years, she was professor of Physiology at NYU School of Dentistry. Then 
 NEWTON-Virginia Bash. 89. Died January 12, in Palo Alto, CA. Breeder of champion Papillon dogs and author of award-winning book, ''The Papillon Primer.'' She is survived by her daughter, Dr. Esther Newton of Manhattan and numerous friends and admirers. Memorial to be held February 8, in San
 SHANSKY-Nettie Kaplan. Of Lincoln, MA, January 18. Beloved wife of David Shansky. Devoted mother of Alan Shansky of Boston and the late Leslie Shansky Vagliano and her surviving husband Andre Vagliano of Brookline. Dear grandmother of Jason and Raphael Vagliano. Sister of Eleanor Kotin of L
 WENIG-Prof. Mary Moers. Died January 18. Wife of Jerome Wenig and sister of Ellen Moers Mayer (both deceased). Mourned by her children Rabbi Margaret Moers Wenig and Michael Moers Wenig and their respective spouses, Rabbi Sharon Kleinbaum and Dr. Brenda Ballachey, and her grandchildren Liba
 Evelyn Abrams Mauss, whose lifelong political activism began when she organized the Junior International League for Peace and Freedom as a 14-year-old in 1929, died on Saturday at the Peninsula Hospital Center in Queens. She was 87 and lived in the Neponsit section of Queens. She ha
 LEFKOWITZ-Sally, 95. On January 19, 2003. Widow of the late Nat Lefkowitz, who was Chairman Emeritus of The William Morris Agency at his death in 1983. She was actively involved in the USO of Metropolitan New York, The Floating Hospital, The Women's Auxiliary of NYU Medical Center, Women's 
 LYON - Eleanor Copeland. Died peacefully at her home on January 20, 2003 in Rye NY after a long and happy life. Born in Brockton, MA. on August 1, 1914. She was the daughter of the late Walter E. and Dr. Lena W. Copeland, beloved wife of the late Frank R. Lyon Jr. She is survived by her chi
 MAUSS-Evelyn. Physicians for Social Responsibilty/NYC offers our deepest sympathy to the family of our long time Executive Committee member. Evelyn was a model, and inspiration, for all of us-always keeping the goal of justice and peace first, ever the optimist, always willing to be present
 SIMON-Gerda P., 87, of Somers and Forest Hills, January 19th, after a brief illness. Beloved Wife, Mother, Grandmother, predeceased by husband Martin (1983). Survived by daughter Vivian Drucker, son-in-law Dennis; son Leslie Simon, daughterin-law Susan; grandchildren, Sharon and Steven Druc
 ZWIRN-Miriam. Age 97. A special lady who conducted her life with courage and dignity. Devoted wife of the late Paul Zwirn. Loving mother of Phyllis and Hy Yankelevitz; grandmother of Steven, Amy and David; great-grandmother of Rachel, Sarah and Julia. She will be remembered.       
 CUNDILL-Joan Reed. Of Aspen, CO and Tucson, AZ on January 14th, after a brief and courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. She is survived by her husband of 30 years, Peter Cundill, son, Roger North Wiewel, daughter, Evelyn Reed Updegrove, and grandson, Charles Holden Updegrove. Raised in 
 DENNIS-Gertrude Weyhe. The Board of Directors and the members of the International Fine Print Dealers Association sadly note the passing of our colleague. Gertrude was a founding member of the IFPDA. With her father, the Weyhe Gallery has served the field of fine prints with distinction sin
 ELLSTEIN-Sylvia Regan, on January 18, 2003. Playwright, lifetime member of the Dramatists Guild, widow of musician-composer Abraham Ellstein, with whom she colaborated on the Broadway musical ''Great To Be Alive'', and the opera ''The Golem''. Miss Regan began her theater career as an actre
 FEFFER-Loren Butler. 40, of Aberdeen, NJ, died Monday, January 20, 2003 at Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch, NJ. She was an independent scholar and musician. She was a graduate of Rumson-Fair Haven Regional High School in Rumson. She received a B.A. degree from Princeton, a Master's fro
 JAMES-Sandy. Born Sandra Lentz. January 20, 2003. Beloved mother, grandmother, aunt, cousin and friend. Leaves behind her companion Jim, four children and eight grandchildren. Successful in family, business and life. You saw the whole picture and you never sweated the small stuff. You will 
 JANOWITZ-Adeline Tintner. Of New York City. Born February 2, 1912. Died January 20. Noted Henry James scholar and book collector. She is survived by her husband Henry, her daughters Anne and Mary and grandchildren Andrew and Kita. Services to be held at the Riverside Chapel, 180 W. 76 Stree
 KANE-Elizabeth H. On January 20, 2003. Wife of the late Josiah M. Mother of Michaela Kane Schaeffer, Ph.D. and her husband Henry A. Schaeffer, M.D. Grandmother of Mary and William and their spouses Brian & Nancy. Great-grandmother of Julia, Benjamin and Beatrice. Services today 9AM, Parksid
 LEFKOWITZ - Sally. The Trustees of the Baruch College Fund wish to express their profound sadness at the passing of Sally Lefkowitz, widow of Nat Lefkowitz, Chairman Emeritus of the William Morris Agency. Sally was a devoted and tireless supporter of education, as well as health care, the a
 SEMBERA - Patricia Mae. March 30, 1949-January 18, 2003. She leaves behind her beloved son Thomas Brett Metzger of New York City, parents Thomas and Lila Sembera, sister Linda Sembera and brother Carl Wilkins. Tricia had a successful career for 20 years with Ford Models. Memorials can be ma
 STRASSBERG-Esther Goldstein. A wonderful person, a noble human, a friend to all, a listener and a doer. A true woman of valor-beautiful, intelligent and kind. Born and raised in Monticello, NY. Resided in NYC for the past 20 years. Esther was the first Jewish employee of Sullivan County and
 TODD-Helaine (nee Friedman). She was the sister we never had. A very special lady whose taste for life touched everyone. We'll truly miss her. Ralph and Bea       
 WHYTE - Giboney Grace. Age 63, on January 16, 2003, of ovarian cancer, leaves friend Joshua Shapiro, daughter Abigail Hykin, grandson Theo Hanlon, sister Virginia Wilcox, brother Charles Whyte and the many others whose lives she touched. Memorial is on Sunday, January 26th, 212-683-1798.   
 Irene Diamond, who after a successful career scouting scripts and talent in Hollywood became a major benefactor of the arts and medical research in New York City, died Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 92. At her death, she was president of the Irene D
 BACKMAN-Barbara (Bobbi), Psy.D. Defined by style, grace, elegance and beauty, Bobbi attacked everything she did with determination and perfection. As a gifted psychologist, she had an ear for listening and an overwhelming compassion for everyone that came into her life. As a loving and devo
 DIAMOND-Irene. The Board of Trustees, faculty, and staff of The Rockefeller University are deeply saddened by the passing of our cherished friend Irene Diamond, a true visionary in the world of philanthropy. Determined to address the AIDS epidemic, she established the Aaron Diamond AIDS Res
 JANOWITZ-Adeline Tintner. Of New York City. Born February 2, 1912. Died January 20. Noted Henry James scholar and book collector. She is survived by her husband Henry, her daughters Anne and Mary and grandchildren Andrew and Kita. Services to be held at the Riverside Chapel, 180 W. 76 Stree
 KANNENSOHN-Edith. Age 90, died January 21 at Isabella House, NYC. Wife of the late Fred Kannensohn. Born in Germany, she was an artist, model and a very elegant woman. She studied painting at the Art Students League and the National Academy of Fine Arts. Services 10:30AM Thursday, January 2
 LITCHMORE-Myrtle Olive. Passed on January 20th, 2003. Myrtle was an elegant, generous, loving, kind and private lady whose life achievements will continue to live on in the hearts of all those lives she touched. Myrtle is survived by one brother, Aston, and two sisters, Dasey and Lucibell, 
 MOORE-Bee Agnes, (nee Keaveny), native of Co. Roscommon, Ireland, on January 21, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Bro. Ronald Moore O.S.F., Ann Marie Swanton and Raymond Moore. Dear sister of Agnes McCormick. Also survived by seven loving grandchildren and five great 
 SKLAR-Sarah. Ben-Gurion University of the Negev President Professor Avishay Braverman, and the Greater New York community of American Associates, extend their deepest sympathy to Elaine Sklar on the passing of her sister. Our deepest condolences to the entire family. Zvi Alon, AABGU, Presid
 TODD-Helaine (nee Friedman). She was the sister we never had. A very special lady whose taste for life touched everyone. We'll truly miss her. Ralph and Bea       
 TRIOLO-Sally. On January 20, 2003, at age 53. Chef extraordinaire. Beloved daughter of Chickie Franke, sister of Debbie Mandelker and aunt of Alison, mother of Shannon Meyers Black. Contributions in her memory may be made to Clinton Presidential Foundation, P.O. Box 1104, Little Rock, AR 72
 FELD-Isabel. The Anti-Defamation League remembers the anniversary of the passing of Isabel Feld and expresses its heartfelt sympathy to her husband Harold Feld, daughter Stephanie Feld and grandson Benjamin Harris. FELD-Isabel. January 23, 2000. Miss you always; forever in my heart.
 Sarah Pettit, a founding editor and former editor in chief of Out magazine, one of the first gay and lesbian publications with mainstream status, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Center of New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 36. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, 
 Nell Carter, the robustly sassy singer and actress who exploded onto the New York musical stage in the Fats Waller revue ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' and went on to become a popular television star in the series ''Gimme a Break!,'' died yesterday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 54.  
 DENNIS-Gertrude Weyhe. The members of the Art Dealers Association of America mourn the passing of their colleague, an ADAA member since 1963. Gracious, elegant and knowledgeable, she was for many years an outstanding dealer in American prints and drawings. Our sympathy and condolences to he
 DIAMOND-Irene. Jazz at Lincoln Center deeply mourns the death of our great friend and benefactor, Irene Diamond. Since our inception in 1991, she was steadfast in her interest and support of our organization and in her belief that Jazz music must take its rightful place as one of our nation
 HERMAN-May Ruth. On January 23, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Devoted mother of Lynn Syms, Judith Gross and Barbara Sigelbaum and mother-in-law of Sy Syms and Harvey Sigelbaum. Cherished grandmother of Cary and Mindy Tamarkin, Leslie Tamarkin and Marc Becker, Kerry Gross Senibaldi 
 PETTIT-Sarah. A great spirit, a good friend. Condolences to her family and to her family of friends. Roz Lichter       
 FELD-Isabel. In memory of Isabel Feld, a lady of beauty, grace, and generosity, who enriched the life of her husband, Harold Feld, and their family.       
 Doris Fisher, a songwriter whose lighthearted, sentimental tunes became hits for the Ink Spots, Ella Fitzgerald and the Mills Brothers in the 1930's and 40's, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. She was 87. Among Ms. Fisher's songs, all written with a co-author, were ''Whispering Gras
 COHEN-Zelda (nee Greenberg). On Friday, January 24, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Ben Cohen. Devoted mother of Rosalee Davison and Charlotte Weinberg. Dear motherin-law of Richard Davison and Dr. Carroll Weinberg. Devoted sister of the late Fannie Zinberg, Minnie Straus, Celia Feingold, Ab
 DIAMOND-Irene. Jazz at Lincoln Center deeply mourns the death of our great friend and benefactor, Irene Diamond. Since our inception in 1991, she was steadfast in her interest and support of our organization and in her belief that Jazz music must take its rightful place as one of our nation
 GITTLIN-Ruth (nee Meyers). Tuesday, January 21, at age 87 in New York City. Devoted mother of Rhona Bross (Joel), Diane Moore and Barbaragae Joffe (Jakob). Adoring grandmother of Scot (Wendy), Tracy Bross; John (Jennifer), Joanne Moore; Gabriella and Benjamin Joffe. Ruth was particularly pr
 MARGULIS-Martha. Martha Margulis, accomplished artist, died Friday after a brief illness. She is survived by her husband Melvin and three daughters Caryn, Shari and Beth and by her sister and four grandchildren. Memorial service Sunday, 11:00 AM at Ballard-Durand, White Plains, NY. Donation
 NELSON-Harriet, age 68. A resident of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY, passed away on Thursday, January 23, 2003, of pancreatic cancer. Harriet is survived by her beloved family which includes her husband Norton David Nelson, daughters Hillary (Peter Beckmann) Nelson, Elizabeth (Do
 TESSORE-Susanne, 71, on January 23rd, 2003. Beloved friend of many. She will be missed.       
 Rae Carlson, a psychologist who helped shape the study of personality with her 1971 paper ''Where Is the Person in Personality Research?'', died on Monday in Fairfax, Va. She was 76. The cause was pneumonia, said her daughter Leslie Carlson-Soloway. Dr. Carlson's paper was p
 Celia Stein, a co-founder of The Riverdale Press, died on Jan. 11 at her home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. She was 90. Mrs. Stein and her husband, David A. Stein, who died in 1982, founded The Press in their living room in 1950 as a weekly community newsletter, and she rem
 BOGDAN - Barbara Cates. Died peacefully on January 16. A longtime resident of New York City she was born in Salt Lake City, Utah on November 14, 1907, the daughter of Louis Shattuck and Helen Cates. She was the widow of Norbert Andrew Bogdan. Barbara is survived by two of her children from 
 DEMPSEY-Deanna. Widow of the late heavyweight champion of the world, Jack Dempsey, passed away on January 23, 2003 after a short illness. She attended college and a year of law school in Italy before arriving to the United States. She was the owner of the Deanna Jewelry boutiques which were
 DIAMOND - Irene. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and The Mount Sinai Hospital mourn the passing of Irene Diamond. A generous and visionary philanthropist, Irene Diamond was an outstanding supporter of programs on AIDS education, prevention and treatment. M
 GRANAT-Ruth. The Special Olympics Palm Beach County ''Family'' mourns the loss of our dear friend and special hero to our athletes, Ruth Granat on January 18, 2003. Ruth's tremendous love for our athletes and generosity enhanced the lives of our many Special Olympians. Our thoughts and pray
 HERMAN-May Ruth. The Board of Overseers and staff of the Brookdale Center on Aging of Hunter College extends our sympathy to Lynn Syms, our beloved and respected Board member, on the passing of her mother. Our thoughts are with Lynn, Sy and the entire family.       
 LITCHMORE-Myrtle Olive. Passed on January 20th, 2003. Myrtle was an elegant, generous, loving, kind and private lady whose life achievements will continue to live on in the hearts of all those lives she touched. Myrtle is survived by one brother, Aston, and two sisters, Dasey and Lucibell, 
 MUSLIN-Alice. Age 60, (nee Thompson). Beloved wife of the late Bernard. Cherished mother and closest friend of Jenny. Dearest sister of Edwin (Cheryl) Thompson. Devoted daughter of LaRue (the late Jessie) Thompson. Dear sister-in-law of Bernice (the late Hyman) Muslin. Caring and adored aun
 RYAN-Julia Regina (nee Healey). Age 89, died peacefully on Friday, January 24, 2003 at her home in Wyckoff, NJ. Julia was born in Brooklyn, NY on September 11, 1913. She was a resident of Brooklyn for many years before moving to Wyckoff 25 years ago. Julia taught in the elementary grades fo
 TURNER-Mary G. Age 96, of Laurel Hollow, NY, on January 23, 2003. Wife of the late Ernest T. Turner. Survived by her children James M. Turner and Mary T. Tackett. Grandmother of Jennifer R. and William S. Tackett. Also survived by her sister Jean Gourlay and her nephew Dr. William Goodall. 
 KAHN-Marion. Dec. 22, 1904Jan. 26, 2002. In loving memory on the 75th Anniversary of her marriage to George A. Kahn Oct 9, 1901-April 18, 1958       
 Sally Michel Avery, an artist, illustrator and widow of the painter Milton Avery, died on Jan. 9. She was 100 and lived in Manhattan. Mrs. Avery was born in Brooklyn in 1902 and studied painting at the Art Students League. She met her husband in Gloucester, Mass., in 1924 when he wa
 DeJUR-Marion Ellenberg. Peacefully on January 23, in Bal Harbour, FL formerly of New York City, wife of the late Dr. Samuel Ellenberg, late Harry DeJur and late Herb Lowenstein, beloved mother of Dianne Ellenberg Davis and Shepard Ellenberg, beloved grandmother of Hal Scott and S. Lawrence 
 WIJDENES-Susan Norris. Of Madison, NJ (formerly of NYC), died peacefully at her home surrounded by family and friends on January 21st. Beloved mother of Jenny. Loving grandmother of Estelle. Dear sister of Sebastian, Carey and Barbara. Also survived by cousins, nieces, nephews and god-child
 BLACK-Mollie Bueler, 88. Of Red Bank, N.J., died peacefully on January 27th, 2003. Beloved mother of Frieda Furman and her husband Roy and cherished grandmother of Jill and Stephanie. She was a joy to all who knew her and will be greatly missed. Funeral services are private. The family will
 EARLEY - Sr. Mary Eli zabeth. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, Convent of Mount Saint Vincent, died Monday, January 27, 2003. She was the loving daughter of the late Edward and the late Mary Tynan Earley and the dear sister of the late Edward Earley. She is survived by her sister-i
 EISENBERGER - Agnes. Dearest friend, sleep in peace next to your Jim. I'll miss you always. Eva EISENBERGER-Agnes. We will miss Agnes-her humanity, integrity, love of music and of her artists. Martha and Frank Salomon       
 GUIDA-Jennie. On January 27, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Antonio. Loving mother to Elizabeth McIntyre and Anthony Guida. Devoted grandmother to Suzanne Loomis, Kristen and Meghan Guida and great-grandmother to Stephen, Jenny and Billy Loomis. Mrs. Guida will always be remembered for her 
 KARELITZ-Ethel R. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of Ethel R. Karelitz, a founding board member of Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Medical Center and a Life Trustee of the North Shore-LIJ Health System. Mrs. Karelitz was also instrumental in the creation of the 
 KOSTELANETZ-Ethel Cory. 91, died peacefully in her home on December 29. Loving wife of Boris. Devoted mother of Richard and Lucy, and grandmother of Eliza. She was a free spirit who enlivened the lives of people around her. She will be dearly missed. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riv
 LEVINE-Carol. We mourn the loss of a dear friend and colleague. Our deepest condolences to her children, Cindy, Robert, and Michael, and to her family. Martin Richards, Maryanne Dittmann, Sam Crothers, Monique Bell, Michael Milton, Dan Gallagher, The Producer Circle Co       
 LIGHTNER-Helen Lucille. Of Twin Falls, Idaho, formerly of New York City, died on January 24, 2003, following an extended battle with heart disease. After graduating from St. Mary's Academy and Marylhurst College, she taught school in southeastern Oregon at Crane for three years. In 1942, sh
 MEYERS-Emma. On December 28, 2002. Beloved mother of Roberta Brodfeld and the late Janet Weinerman. Dear mother-in-law of Arthur Frommer. Loving wife of the late Irving Brodfeld and the late Irving Meyers. Dear grandmother of Tracie and Jill, Ivy and Randi, great-grandmother of Michaela, an
 MILLER-Elsie. On January 27, 2003. Beloved wife of the late David. Devoted and adored mother of Joanie, Jerry, Donny and Ellie. Cherished grandmother of Judy, Marvin, Debbie, Steve, Steven, Peter and Lori. Loving great-grandmother of Eric, Todd, Michael, Liza and Matthew. Dearest aunt of Il
 STEIN-Eleanor (Wiener). Beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, died on December 28, at the age of 89, after a short illness. She resided for many years with her late husband, Dr. Isidore Stein in Brooklyn, New York, before moving to Cliffside Park, New Jersey. Eleanor received h
 WEIJL-Liselotte Dina. Poeia Weijl-Farcy has great sorrow in announcing the death of her mother, Liselotte Dina Weijl, nee Drukker, on December 23, 2002. Her wisdom, wit and charm will be sorely missed by her children, grandchidlren and many friends throughout the world. Ceremonies will be h
 WITTENSTEIN-Sari. Age 73, on Sunday, January 26th, in Boca Raton, FL. Predeceased by husband, Robert P. Wittenstein, and survived by her sons, Ira and Andrew; a daughter, Victoria, and four grandchildren. Formerly of New York City and Westport, CT., she was a long-time supporter of the arts
 BLACK-Mollie Bueler, 88. Of Red Bank, N.J., died peacefully on January 27th, 2003. Beloved mother of Frieda Furman and her husband Roy and cherished grandmother of Jill and Stephanie. She was a joy to all who knew her and will be greatly missed. Funeral services are private. The family will
 EISENBERGER - Agnes. Dearest friend, sleep in peace next to your Jim. I'll miss you always. Eva EISENBERGER-Agnes. We will miss Agnes-her humanity, integrity, love of music and of her artists. Martha and Frank Salomon       
 GLIEDMAN-Rae (nee Konowitch), 39 plus. On January 29, 2003. Great wife, mother, grandmother, great-grandmother to be, educator, chauffeur and crossword puzzle maven, not a good cook, ordered in. Remembered and beloved by Kenneth, Shelley, Ginny, Gregory, Chris, Kathy, Beth and Gilbert. Priv
 KOSTELANETZ-Ethel Cory. 91, died peacefully in her home on December 29. Loving wife of Boris. Devoted mother of Richard and Lucy, and grandmother of Eliza. She was a free spirit who enlivened the lives of people around her. She will be dearly missed. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riv
 MEYERS-Emma. On December 28, 2002. Beloved mother of Roberta Brodfeld and the late Janet Weinerman. Dear mother-in-law of Arthur Frommer. Loving wife of the late Irving Brodfeld and the late Irving Meyers. Dear grandmother of Tracie and Jill, Ivy and Randi, great-grandmother of Michaela, an
 ROSENTHAL - Mildred. A bright light extinguished after a joyous life lived to its fullest. Mildred Dubinsky Rosenthal, beloved wife of Albert Rosenthal of Plainview, L.I., and loving mother of Ellen Rosenthal and Barbara Brady, sonin-law Donald Brady, passed away January 27, 2003. She is su
 STEIN-Eleanor (Wiener). Beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, died on December 28, at the age of 89, after a short illness. She resided for many years with her late husband, Dr. Isidore Stein in Brooklyn, New York, before moving to Cliffside Park, New Jersey. Eleanor received h
 WEIJL-Liselotte Dina. Poeia Weijl-Farcy has great sorrow in announcing the death of her mother, Liselotte Dina Weijl, nee Drukker, on December 23, 2002. Her wisdom, wit and charm will be sorely missed by her children, grandchidlren and many friends throughout the world. Ceremonies will be h
 ZIMMERMAN-Martha. January 28, age 88. of Fort Lee, N.J. Loving wife of Edward and mother of Peter, both deceased. Loving mother of Richard. Beloved grandmother of Jason and Jennifer anddoting great-grandmother to Jordan, Corey and Lincoln. Her beauty and dignity will be missed. Graveside se
 CROLL-May. On January 25, 2003 at 95 years of age. Beloved wife of Irving Croll, cherished mother of Burney and Don, grandmother of Wendy and Andrew Halpern and Andrea and Jonathan Freeman, great-grandmother of Benjamin Isaac Halpern, mother-in-law of Harriet Croll, friend of Jan Gartenberg
 EISENBERGER - Agnes. Dearest friend, sleep in peace next to your Jim. I'll miss you always. Eva EISENBERGER-Agnes. We will miss Agnes-her humanity, integrity, love of music and of her artists. Martha and Frank Salomon       
 HERZ-Ellen M. Beloved mother of Frank and Steve, grandmother of Michael, Erik, Justin and nicole, greatgrandmother of Amanda, Jackson, Ian and Ethan, and her sister, Lore Simon, died on January 26, 2003, one month before her 97th birthday. She will be missed by all of her family, as she was
 KOSTELANETZ-Ethel Cory. 91, died peacefully in her home on December 29. Loving wife of Boris. Devoted mother of Richard and Lucy, and grandmother of Eliza. She was a free spirit who enlivened the lives of people around her. She will be dearly missed. Services Tuesday, 11:30 AM, at ''The Riv
 LIEBMAN - Rebecca. Died January 29, 2003 in her 91st year. Lifelong resident of Woodmere, NY. Daughter of Fanny Saul Liebman and Morris Liebman. Beloved sister of the late Emily Greenwald Meyer and devoted aunt of the late Diana Greenwald and Alice Greenwald Ward and David Ward. Greataunt o
 MEYERS-Emma. On December 28, 2002. Beloved mother of Roberta Brodfeld and the late Janet Weinerman. Dear mother-in-law of Arthur Frommer. Loving wife of the late Irving Brodfeld and the late Irving Meyers. Dear grandmother of Tracie and Jill, Ivy and Randi, great-grandmother of Michaela, an
 SCHMETTERER - Rosalie, 87, died peacefully in her sleep at her home, Plantation Village, in Wilmington, NC. Born Rosalia Fernandez in Westfield, MA, she and her husband Robert (deceased 1980) lived most of their lives in Hillsdale, NJ. A remarkable woman, who spent her life giving to others
 STEIN-Eleanor (Wiener). Beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, died on December 28, at the age of 89, after a short illness. She resided for many years with her late husband, Dr. Isidore Stein in Brooklyn, New York, before moving to Cliffside Park, New Jersey. Eleanor received h
 WEIJL-Liselotte Dina. Poeia Weijl-Farcy has great sorrow in announcing the death of her mother, Liselotte Dina Weijl, nee Drukker, on December 23, 2002. Her wisdom, wit and charm will be sorely missed by her children, grandchidlren and many friends throughout the world. Ceremonies will be h
