 Dr. Susana Rotker-Martinez, director of the Rutgers Center for Hemispheric Studies, was hit by a truck and fatally injured Monday while crossing a road in Piscataway, N.J. She was 46 and lived in Highland Park. Her husband, Dr. Tomas Eloy Martinez, a fellow faculty member and journa
 Gwendolyn Brooks, who illuminated the black experience in America in poems that spanned most of the 20th century, winning the Pulitzer Prize in 1950, died yesterday at her home in Chicago. She was 83. ''I wrote about what I saw and heard in the street,'' Ms. Brooks once said. ''I li
 Eloise Jarvis McGraw, author of ''The Moorchild,'' a 1996 Newbery Honor book, and other novels for children, died on Thursday in Portland, Ore. She was 84 and lived in Oswego Lake, Ore. Mrs. McGraw began writing at the age of 8, shortly after her family moved from Houston, where she
 Gwendolyn Brooks, who illuminated the black experience in America in poems that spanned most of the 20th century, winning the Pulitzer Prize in 1950, died on Sunday at her home in Chicago. She was 83. ''I wrote about what I saw and heard in the street,'' Ms. Brooks once said. ''I li
 Irene Krone, who founded I. Krone Associates, a product-consulting firm, and co-founded Stop Traffic Offenses Program, or STOP, a traffic-safety advocacy group, died on Wednesday in a car crash while vacationing on Martinique. She was 60 and lived in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y.        
 A memorial service for Lucia Dlugoszewski, the composer and choreographer who died in April at the age of 68, will be held on Friday at 3 p.m. at the John Jay College Theater, 899 10th Avenue, at 59th Street, Manhattan. The service, which is open to the public, is to feature perform
 Emily Wilkens, an award-winning fashion designer who rejected the idea that young girls should be dressed as if they were their mothers in miniature, died in the Bronx on Saturday. She was 83. Beginning in the early 1940's and drawing on references as diverse as Russian peasant dres
 Jane Troxell Stark, a dealer in exotic fabrics and jewelry who was a fashion editor for magazines including Glamour, died last Saturday outside Mexico City. She was 86 and lived in Alexandria, Va., and San Miguel, Mexico. Mrs. Stark honed her sense of fashion in the college shop at 
 Marvel Jackson Cooke, who has been described as the first black woman to work for a white-owned mainstream newspaper, died on Nov. 29 in Manhattan. She was 99 and was a longtime resident of Sugar Hill, Harlem. Born in Mankato, Minn., and a graduate of the University of Minnesota, Ma
 Pat Kauffman, whose blindness inspired her to help thousands of other blind people attend theatrical performances at no cost and with no fuss, died on Nov. 24 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 76. Ms. Kauffman's sense of mission began with an embarrassing experience at the thea
 Gisela Kahn Gresser, a pioneer in women's chess and a nine-time national champion, died Dec. 4 in her Manhattan home. She was 94. Mrs. Gresser, who was born in 1906 in Detroit, taught herself to play chess using a book a fellow passenger gave her on a cruise in 1939. She was
 Teresa Sterne, a pioneering producer of classical recordings, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. She had been suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said a friend, Norma Hurlburt, executive director of the Chamber Musi
 Marie Windsor, who played sassy femmes fatales, cynical bawdyhouse matrons and two-timing crooks in 74 movies with enough verve to win the informal accolade ''Queen of the B's,'' died on Sunday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 80. Acting opposite male stars like Marlon B
 Ruth Martin, a writer whose English translations of both popular and obscure operas were widely used in American opera houses, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 86. Mrs. Martin was born Ruth Berenice Kelley in Jersey City in April 1914. During her student years she wa
 Alice Recknagel Ireys, one of the most prominent landscape architects of the second half of the 20th century, with more than 1,000 public and private projects to her name, died Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 89 and lived in Brooklyn Heights. A bridge
 Christabel Leighton-Porter, who became the sweetheart of British troops in World War II as the model for a comic strip heroine who was forever shedding her clothes, died Dec. 6 in Horsham, England. She was 87. While American troops ogled pinups of Betty Grable and the Varga girls of
 Rosemarie Kanzler, who rose from humble beginnings in the Swiss Alps to become one of the most glamorous figures in the international set for more than five decades, died Dec. 9 at her estate in Argentina. She was 85. Her butler found her in her swimming pool after she had suffered a stroke
 Ilona Karmel Zucker, a Holocaust survivor who based much of her writing on her experiences in Nazi labor camps, died on Nov. 30 in Cambridge, Mass. She was 75. Born in Krakow, Poland, Ms. Karmel endured the war years in the city's ghetto and in three nearby camps, where she composed
 Lori Ledis, an art dealer and producer of concerts and music documentaries, died on Saturday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 40. The cause was a heart attack, said her husband, Robert Flam. Ms. Ledis was born in Flushing, Queens, and earned a Master of Fine Arts degree from
 Peggy McMartin Buckey, a principal defendant in the Virginia McMartin Pre-School child-molestation case, who went free after a costly seven-year ordeal when prosecutors gave up, died on Friday in Torrance, Calif. She was 74 and lived in Torrance. The local authorities said Mrs. Buck
 Kirsty MacColl, a singer and songwriter with a string of hits in Britain, died on Monday in Mexico while vacationing in Cozumel. Reuters reported that her manager, Kevin Nixon, said that she was believed to have been hit by a speedboat in an area reserved for swimmers. She was 41  and lived
 Florynce Kennedy, a lawyer and political activist whose flamboyant attire and sometimes outrageous comments drew attention to her fierce struggle for civil rights and feminism, died on Thursday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 84. Known to everyone as Flo, recognizable everywhere
 Lily Carlson Schulte, one of the first models hired by the Ford agency and a favorite subject of photographers like Irving Penn and Richard Avedon, died on Dec. 14 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 85. ''It's hard to explain to you what a star she was,'' said Eilee
 Libertad Lamarque Bouza, a singer and actress whose career ranged from the gritty days of early tango recordings in Argentina to the contemporary daily soap operas produced for mass audiences in the Spanish-speaking world, died on Dec. 12 in Mexico City. She was 92. Ms. Lamarque gai
 Esther Bradford Aresty, a collector of rare books on etiquette and the culinary arts, subjects to which she added her own work as a noted author, died Saturday at a nursing home in Princeton, N.J. A former resident of Trenton and Princeton, she was 92. Mrs. Aresty's shelf-lined home
 Karen McCready, a print publisher, gallery owner and writer, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 54 and had homes in Manhattan and Warwick, N.Y. The cause was colon cancer, said her husband, Jean Yves Noblet. Ms. McCready was born in Beaver Falls, Pa., and grew up in Dalla
 Felicia Shpritzer, who in the early 1960's broke a gender barrier in the New York Police Department when she earned a sergeant's stripes, paving the way for the advancement of women in police work across the country, died on Tuesday at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. 
