 FULLER--Helen, on December 30, at age 96, in Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of Great Neck, New York. Beloved wife for 72 years of the late Bernard H. Fuller. Cherished mother of Deborah, Harrison and Patricia, and June and Martin Sloane. She leaves behind seven grandchildren, 20 great-grandc
 KHEEL--Ann Sunstein. We mourn the passing of Ann Sunstein Kheel, a long-time member of the Board of Directors of the New York Urban League, and founder of its annual Frederick Douglass Awards Dinner. Her stalwart support for equality and dignity for all New Yorkers will continue in our thou
 KIOK--Helen. A woman of great intelligence, sharp wit and warm commitment to family. We will miss her. The Sternberg and Mann Families       
 SHER--Rosalie L. On December 21, 2003. Buried December 24. Born Rozalia Leontyna Gelber-Schor in Lvov in pre-WW II Poland. Lost parents and two brothers to the Holocaust. Survived under a false identity. Worked in postwar Germany as a court interpreter and for the American Joint Distributio
 SIEGEL--Ethel Beyersky in her 89th year. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin. Cherished mother of Joan and Martin Myers, Susan and Marcelino Rodriguez, Larry and Maureen, Margo, Louis and Debbie. Adoring and proud Bubbe of Allan and Michael Myers; Josh, Matt and Dan Siegel. Dear sister of Glo
 SPRINTZ--Mae, on December 30, 2003 of Madison, CT. Wife of Abraham L. Sprintz. Mother of Myra Tulchin of Madison, CT., and the late Sigmund Sprintz. Grandmother of Rachel O'Hazo and Tanya Tulchin. Great grandmother of Elizabeth and Michael O'Hazo. She will be sorely missed by family and fri
 STEVENSON--Isabelle. The Officers and Board of United Cerebral Palsy of NYC note with deep sorrow the passing of our longtime friend and supporter Isabelle Stevenson. We extend our sincere sympathy to her daughter and her entire family. Leo Hausman, Chairman UCP of NYC, Inc.       
 TULLY--Mary Jean, 78, a pioneer of the feminist movement, died of a heart attack December 27, 2003. She is survived by her five children: Bruce Tully of Manhattan, Linsey Tully of Manhattan, Laura Tully of Lexington, MA, Scott Tully of Pleasantville, NY and Andrew Tully of San Francisco, CA
 Vestal Goodman, a matriarch of gospel music whose influence ranged far beyond its traditional audience, died on Saturday in Celebration, Fla. She was 74. The Associated Press reported her death based on information from funeral home officials and her own Web site. The cause was not 
 ANGELL--Mary Anne K. (nee Kennedy), 75, of Wilmington, VT, died December 28, 2003. Born May 17th 1928, she was the beloved wife of Bob Angell for 52 years. Graduated Hunter College HS, University of Rochester, and Columbia University. A resident of Mamaroneck, NY she retired in 1988 from IB
 KENNEDY--Patricia Rafferty, died peacefully on New Year's Eve after a valiant struggle with cancer. A social fixture in Manhattan, Palm Beach and the Hamptons, Patti was a devoted mother who ran two successful businesses and touched countless people with her warmth, grace and style. Born in
 NESI--Frances Rella on December 30, 2003. (91 yrs old). Beloved wife of Dr. Roland Peter Nesi. Survived by her three sons Dr. Roland Michael Nesi, Mr. Vincent Roland Nesi and Dr. Richard Conrad Nesi. Cherished grandmother of Vincent, Richard, Roland, Charles, Michael, Mathew and Peter. Grea
 SAXE--Ruth Lubell. Passed away at age 96, predeceased by her husband, Emanuel, also predeceased by her daughter Judith Kate Kuvin, survived by her son, David, his wife, Phyllis, grandchildren, June Volk, Joshua Kuvin, Elana Saxe, and Marissa Saxe, great grandchildren, Jason, Haley, Samantha
 SCHREIBER -- Maurine K. Age 97. Beloved wife of the late Isadore Raiff and the late E. Martie Schreiber. Loving mother of Frederic and Pauline Raiff. Cherished grandmother, great-grandmother and aunt. Services private. SCHREIBER -- Maurine K. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New
 Maxine Postal, the Suffolk County legislative leader who resigned her post this week because of failing health, died Thursday in a hospice in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., where she also had a home. She was 61 and lived in Amityville, N.Y. In announcing her resignation, which took effec
 BUMBLE--Ruth, on January 1, 2004. The family is deeply saddened and mourns her passing. She is survived by her children, Reba and Henry; her grandchildren, Rachel and Michelle; her sister, Hattie; and her brother, Milton. Services Sunday 11 AM, Schwartz Bros.-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens
 DAVIDOFF--Linda Stone, 62, of New York City and New Paltz, N.Y. Died of leukemia on December 31, 2003. An urban planner and civic activist, she helped develop the National Voter Registration Act and locally the waterfront park under construction at Riverside South. Most recently, she served
 EHRENBERG--Shirley. Died January 2, at age 92. Adored wife of the late Francis Ehrenberg, beloved mother of Arlene Hammond and her husband Bill, the late Joan Schlanger and her husband Michael, and Robert Ehrenberg and his wife Eleanor. Cherished grandmother to David Hammond and Elizabeth P
 KENNEDY--Patricia Rafferty, died peacefully on New Year's Eve after a valiant struggle with cancer. A social fixture in Manhattan, Palm Beach and the Hamptons, Patti was a devoted mother who ran two successful businesses and touched countless people with her warmth, grace and style. Born in
 SAXE--Ruth Lubell. Passed away at age 96, predeceased by her husband, Emanuel, also predeceased by her daughter Judith Kate Kuvin, survived by her son, David, his wife, Phyllis, grandchildren, June Volk, Joshua Kuvin, Elana Saxe, and Marissa Saxe, great grandchildren, Jason, Haley, Samantha
 SCHREIBER--Maurine K. The Women's Auxiliary of Cong. Emanu-El, NYC, acknowledges with great sadness the passing of Maurine K. Schreiber. A devoted, treasured long-term member of our Board, she will be sorely missed. May the beauty of her life be a comfort to her family and friends. Eve Habe
 WEINIG--Hilda. On January 1, 2004. She was born in 1910 in N.Y.C. into the loving family of Rae and Jonas Friedman. She was the beloved wife of the late Alexander Weinig for 53 years. Cherished mother of Carole Weinig Segal and her husband John, and the late Judi Weinig Margolin. Adored, de
 WOFSEY -- Beatrice. The Board of Governors and Members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime beloved friend and esteemed member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Charles Roden, President       
 KLAUSNER--Freda. January 3, 1904-January 10, 2002. On what would have been her 100th birthday, we remember, with love, our devoted mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Vivienne, Lynn and Jay and children       
 Linda Stone Davidoff, a civic activist and champion of progressive social causes who ran Elizabeth Holtzman's unsuccessful campaign for the United States Senate in New York in 1980, died on Wednesday in Tucson, Ariz. She was 62. The cause was pneumonia related to acute myelogenous l
 AVALLONE -- Fran. The Board of Directors and staff of New Jersey Right To Choose note with great sadness the death of our founder. She was a fierce political advocate, an honest and enthusiastic teacher, a beloved mother and a passionate champion of every woman's right to determine her own 
 BARZILAY--Helly. March 31, 1923-December 30, 2003. Beloved wife of Isaac Barzilay, beloved mother of Joshua and Sharona, beloved grandmother of Benjamin and Rebecca Graff and Ruth and Simon Barzilay, beloved sister of Erika Lorch, and beloved aunt of many. She devoted her life to doing good
 BIBERMAN -- Susan Jane Hadley, M.D. On December 27, 2003 at age 84. Retired Full Professor at Cornell Medical School. Beloved wife of David, mother of David Hadley and Anne Biberman. Sister to Cornelia Hadley, Helen Obert, and Priscilla Hadley. Interment private. Contributions in her memory
 CURTIS--Virginia Evans. 65, of Chicago, January 2, after a long illness. She was loved by many and will be missed by all. Services private.       
 DAVIDOFF--Linda Stone, 62, of New York City and New Paltz, N.Y. Died of leukemia on December 31, 2003. An urban planner and civic activist, she helped develop the National Voter Registration Act and locally the waterfront park under construction at Riverside South. Most recently, she served
 FRIEND-WEITZ--Olga Judith. Died December 14, 2003. Beloved wife of Joe. Loving mother of Roberta Friend Vaughan. She was a great lady. Services January 11, 2004, at 2 PM, at the Congregational Church of Manhasset, 1845 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, NY. Contributions to Friends of the Bay, P.O.
 HAUPTMAN -- Selma. 87, passed away December 31, 2003. She is survived by her husband of 64 years, William Hauptman, her son Fred, grandchildren Julia and Matthew, great-grandchildren Jacob, Jasmine and Hannah and her helper Dora. She worked for many years as a geriatric social worker at Mon
 HERTZ--Ivy (Paddy) Shannon. December 30, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Edgar A. Hertz. Loving aunt of Laura Felton and Gregory Shannon. She will be deeply missed.       
 HOFFMAN--Joan Proskauer, 87 of Roslyn Heights on December 29, 2003. Beloved wife of the late John E. Hoffman. Loving mother of Hilde Hoffman Agatstein and Julien P. Hoffman. Beloved grandmother of Gregg, Justin and David and great-grandmother of Sage. Adoring motherin-law of Henry and Diane
 KHEEL--Ann Sunstein. Died on Sunday, December 28. Beloved wife of Theodore. Devoted mother of Ellen (Mrs. Arnold Jacobs), Robert, Constance, Marti, Jane Stanley, Katherine Fleischman. Eleven grandchildren and one great - grandchild. Funeral services private. A celebration of her life to be 
 LASLEY--R. Allison. 55, died peacefully after a prolonged illness on January 1, 2004. She was the devoted wife of Stuart Goode of New York City and the sister of John Lasley of San Francisco. Allison was an accomplished artist with a committed following across the US and Europe. Born in Chi
 McGUIRE--Helen Slane. On January 1, 2004, of Southbury, CT, formerly of Flushing, NY, wife of the late James F. McGuire. She retired in 1968 as secretary for Milbank Memorial Fund. Predeceased by brothers Peter, William, Joseph, Thomas, Raymond Slane, and sisters Kathleen Donaldson, Mary Sl
 PEARL -- Bettina. Devoted wife of Erwin Pearl. Died on December 25, 2003, surrounded by her loving family. She is survived by her four daughters, Diane Weinstein, Debra Heller, Eva Centeno and Suzanne Bakst and their husbands, ten grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. Bettina inspired
 ROGAL--Aaron. On January 1, 2004. Attorney and CPA. Member of Mensa and New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants. Graduate of Brooklyn Law School and City College of New York. Beloved husband of Lee Rogal. Devoted father of Bonnie LaPlaca and her husband Michael. Loving grandf
 ROZMAN--Bernice (Bunny). Beloved wife of Joseph for 64 years; devoted mother of Carol and Stephen Leit and Marjorie and the late Barry Rozman; adored grandmother of Deborah, Jonathan, Aliza, Avi and Dani; loving sister of Adele and the late Alan Badish. Affectionately known to her many frie
 SHARMAT--Mary Constance Learson. 69, daughter of Nora C. Brungot (d.) and James Learson (d.). Survived by children, Lee and James Sharmat, and companion, Frank Vohs, of cardiac arrest on January 1, 2004. Mary's early professional career included roles from the Steve Allen Show and Odd Coupl
 WECHSLER -- Cecile, M.D. With deep sorrow we announce the passing of Dr. Cecile Wechsler on Wednesday, November 26, 2003. She is sorely missed by her many patients, the children she mothered after WW II, her many friends and relatives.       
 WOLFE--Mary L., Dr., formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died December 30, 2003 at home in Durham, NC. She received her B.S. in Education from Fordham and her M.A. and Ph.D. from NYU, and was a member of the Brooklyn Historial Society, the National Trust for Historic Preservation and the SAH. Her car
 ADLER -- Goldie. Loving mother to Eddie. Beloved and devoted sister and sister-inlaw to Jean and Eugen Gluck. Cherished aunt and greataunt. Admired and respected by hundreds of employees at E. Gluck Corporation. From the ashes of the Holocaust, Goldie created a beautiful life filled with wa
 BRODY--Charlotte. 83, on January 2, mother of Beth Puffer and Steven Brody, sister of Muriel Petersen, grandmother and great-grandmother. Dedicated her life to early childhood education. Memorial service to be held in the spring.       
 FRIEND-WEITZ--Olga Judith. Died December 14, 2003. Beloved wife of Joe. Loving mother of Roberta Friend Vaughan. She was a great lady. Services January 11, 2004, at 2 PM, at the Congregational Church of Manhasset, 1845 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, NY. Contributions to Friends of the Bay, P.O.
 GARCIA--Shirley S. (nee Stoddard). On January 2, 2004, of Marion Station. Beloved wife of CelsoRamon Sr., M.D., dear mother of CelsoRamon Jr., MSN and Sarita G. Cole, M.Ed. Sister of Gerard Stoddard, Beatrice Louise Pounds, Patricia Bishop and Audrey Micallef. Also survived by her four gran
 GOLDSTEIN--Helen. It is with mournful heartache that we mark the passing of a truly wonderful, beautiful and exceptional woman, a great Jewish leader, Helen Fried Kirshblum Goldstein, distinguished recipient of our Women of Leadership and Vision Award, for which she delivered an eloquent an
 GORIN--Mildred E. 93, of Greenwich, CT, died January 1, 2004, at home. Wife of the late Ernest B. Gorin, she is survived by her son Thomas B. Gorin of Old Greenwich, CT, and six grandchildren. Mrs. Gorin was a graduate of Manhattanville College. Services will be private.       
 HOWARD--Fay, died peacefully looking out over the Bay of Cannes at the age of 81 on December 16, 2003, in Cannes, France. Growing up Jewish in Nazi Germany she survived unspeakable horrors living in Berlin during the war and yet was always unfailingly kind, constantly optimistic and positiv
 KORKES--Lillian. On January 4. Wife of the late Dr. Solomon Korkes. Survived by two nephews, Martin Bleiweiss of Ithaca, NY, and Jonathan Korkes of New York City. Dear cousin of Dorothy Havkins. Formerly the registrar of Hunter College. She will always be remembered for her kindness and hum
 KURZ--Bertha. In her 107th year, on December 25. Lovingly remembered by three children, nine grandchildren, eight great - grandchildren, two great-great-grandchildren and countless friends. Remarkable woman who never felt handicapped. A smile was her signature. Donations to Temple Beth Solo
 LASLEY--R. Allison. 55, died peacefully after a prolonged illness on January 1, 2004. She was the devoted wife of Stuart Goode of New York City and the sister of John Lasley of San Francisco. Allison was an accomplished artist with a committed following across the US and Europe. Born in Chi
 MILLER -- Bernice Glaser. The children, family and friends of Mrs. Bernice (Basie) Glaser Miller were saddened to learn of her passing on December 30, 2003, at the age of 89. Basie was the adoring wife of William, an attorney in Princeton, NJ, from 1939 until his death in 1977, and then of 
 NYE--Shirley, on January 1, 2004, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Edgar, she is survived by her son Richard, her grandchildren Timothy, Amy and Kate and her great-grandchildren Jack, Ted and Moppy. An expert collector of Chinese and Korean ceramics, devoted to her family and
 QUACH--Emily Hsu Landau. On December 30, 2003. A beautiful person adored by all. Born in Laos, she graduated from Wells College and Columbia University. She is survived by her husband, two children, parents, sisters and brother. She will be missed by all whom she touched. A memorial service
 NIGHTINGALE--Bertha. In loving memory. January 5, 2001. Death ended her indignity, abuse and torment. Pray for the victims of home health care. No rights, no protections, no justice. Ever remembered. home-care-nightmare.com       
 ALDRICH--Winifred Payne (Wynn). Died at home in Manhattan on December 21, 2003 after a long illness. Her husband, Larry Aldrich, died in 2001. Born in 1914, she is survived by adopted daughters Kate Strassman and Susan Huberth, and by two grandchildren. Wynn, with her husband Larry, founded
 GOGEL--Lettie Wisser, in her 97th year, on January 5, 2004. Lovingly remembered by her children Bruce and Mary Ellen, Bill and Marge, and her grandchildren Brian and Stacy, Nancy and Catherine. She will always be remembered for her love of life and devotion to her family. In lieu of flowers
 GOLDSTEIN -- Helen Kirsh blum. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Helen Kirshblum Goldstein, beloved wife of Rabbi Leonard Goldstein. A valued trustee of the JTS board, Helen was a woman of great sagacity, boundless energy and impeccable taste. By profession an in
 GORIN--Mildred E. 93, of Greenwich, CT, died January 1, 2004, at home. Wife of the late Ernest B. Gorin, she is survived by her son Thomas B. Gorin of Old Greenwich, CT, and six grandchildren. Mrs. Gorin was a graduate of Manhattanville College. Services will be private.       
 LASLEY--Allison. Her light shined too briefly--but oh so brightly. We shall miss her courage, her elegance, her artistry and style. Mostly we shall miss her friendship. Our heartfelt condolences to her beloved Stuart, John, Kimberly, Heather, and of course, Bear. Love forever, Susan and Phi
 LEVENSTEIN -- Margery, a retired executive secretary, died on December 23, 2003, at the home of her stepdaughter, Nora Staffanell, after a courageous and dignified struggle with Alzheimer's Disease. She was 84. Born on December 3, 1919, Marge was the daughter of Ernest and Ethel Littman. Sh
 LIEB--Belle. The Board of Governors and members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Florida acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Belle Lieb. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband Robert and their family. Dr. Elliott Solomon, Pres.       
 SCHEER--Lena. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Dr. Max and Benjamin Scheer on the passing of their beloved mother. She served as an exemplary role model to her sons in her gracefulness, dignity and modesty. As long-time supporters, Dr. Max and Pamela Scheer's participation and generou
 TULLY--Mary Jean. The board and members of Veteran Feminist of America express profound grief at the passing of our co-founder and board member Mary Jean Tully. Her great energy and generosity helped bring reality to the V.F.A. Donations in Mary Jean's memory to continue her vision for V.F.
 WEINBAUM--Sarah. 98, died January 4, 2004. Widow of Al Weinbaum. Beloved mother of George and the late Marian Fischman. Proud grandmother of Eve, Eric, Cindy, Sharon, Amanda, Laura, and Elliot. Devoted great-grandmother of twelve. Private graveside service. Shiva observed at the Weinbaum ho
 ALDRICH--Winifred Payne (Wynn). Died at home in Manhattan on December 21, 2003 after a long illness. Her husband, Larry Aldrich, died in 2001. Born in 1914, she is survived by adopted daughters Kate Strassman and Susan Huberth, and by two grandchildren. Wynn, with her husband Larry, founded
 CATALANO--Josephine, 93. Passed away peacefully in her home surrounded by her loving family. She was married to Joseph Catalano for 58 years and is survived by her son Peter Joseph Catalano and his wife Dana, her daughter Jane Catalano Dean and her husband Jim. Also her beloved grandson Pet
 DEMPSEY--Ethel S. Age 87, on December 31, 2003. Beloved mother of Richard and mother-in-law of Antonia. Commercial artist and longtime New York City resident, she had lived in Flemington, NJ since 1998. Cherished grandmother of James Dempsey, and Erin Plimley, and great-grandmother of Meaga
 EHRENBERG--Shirley. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and longtime member, Shirley Ehrenberg. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her family and friends. Board of Governors The Woodmere Club       
 FIDLER--Andree. NCJW, NY Section mourns the passing of our devoted Board Member and Chair of Council Corner. She will be missed. Sincerest condolences to her family. Natalie Katz, Pres Judith Golub, Exec Dir       
 GOLDSTEIN -- Helen. Our condolences to Helen's beloved Leonard and her adoring family. Her friendship, wit, style and commitment to Judaism will be sorely missed. Dawn and Arnold Pohl       
 HUDSON -- Jacquelyn R. (Houpert). Died December 22 in Old Saybrook, CT. Survived by her husband Dr. William C. Hudson and a son Henri Houpert. Memorial services will be held at 11AM, Saturday, January 10 at the Swan Funeral Home, 80 E. Main St., Clinton, CT. Family and friends may call prio
 LUSK--Ruth, on Januray 5th. Dearly beloved wife of George, devoted mother of Jack and Jane, Larry and Marcia, Bill and fiance Barbara, Jim and Eileen. Loving grandmother of Becky, Emily, Zachary, Madeline, Zoe, Darian and Sterling. Dear sister of Barbara Leberfeld, Lois Cogen and the late A
 POLIKOFF--Wanda. On January 6, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Paul Friedman and the late Harry Polikoff. Devoted mother of Anita Friedman Berman and her husband Russell. Loving grandmother of Miranda and Amelia Berman. Devoted friend of Tazio Miotto. Funeral service today at 1pm, at Fra
 RUBIN--Enid (nee Kretchmer), on January 4, 2004. Beloved wife of Seymour. Devoted mother of Harold and his partner Scott Kochman. Dear sister of Paula and Robert. She enjoyed meeting and being with people and made music a major part of her life. Services Thursday, January 8th, 11am, at the 
 SATERIALE -- Pauline (nee Miale). Beloved wife of the late Fred. Devoted mother of Joanne Marder. Loving mother-in-law of Stanley. Cherished grandmother of Stephanie Vaughn, her husband James and their daughter Natasha. Reposing at the Greenwich Village Funeral Home, 199 Bleecker St, NYC, F
 SOLOVE--Jean. On January 5, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Curtis Solove. Loving mother of Richard and Stephanie. Loving great-grandmother, grandmother, great aunt and aunt. She loved and was loved by too many to mention. No words can express how deeply she will be missed.       
 VIDAL - ORRANTIA -- Mirta. Age 55. On January 3, 2004. Born in Bueno Aires, Argentina, Mirta emigrated with her family to the U.S. at the age of 10, but always retained ties to her native land, traveling frequently throughout Latin America. She worked as a Spanish-language journalist and ac
 ADLER--Goldie. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Jean Gluck and Eddie Adler on the passing of her beloved sister and his dear mother. Mrs. Adler was a warm, kindhearted and caring person. She had the unique ability to bring an instant smile to anyone who had the good fortune of knowing
 BANTECAS--Alice George, on January 5, 2004. Retired English teacher at Lincoln High School in Brooklyn and lifetime educator of young people. Loving aunt of Mary Bruan and Christopher Carajohn of Manhattan, adoring great-aunt of Walter, Katherine and Kristin. She will be sorely missed.     
 BRIGGIN--Barbara, 71, died January 6, of leukemia in New York City. She graduated from Sarah Lawrence College. Her commitment to education included years as a creative first grade teacher and tutor at the Ethical Culture School. At NYU Medical School, she taught reading and writing to disad
 BRODERSON--Karen, of Englewood, NJ on January 4, 2004. Dearest wife of Alan. Loving and devoted mother of Darrin and Jeanne. Dear sister of Marilyn Greenberg. Loving aunt and friend to everyone who knew her. For Shiva information, 201 568-1315. For further information ''Wien & Wien.''      
 CUTLER--Beverly Waring. 86, of Bryn Mawr, PA and Edgartown, MA on Tuesday, January 6. Predeceased by her husband of 64 years, E. Newton Cutler Jr. Born February 6, 1917 in Plainfield, NJ, she graduated from Miss Porter's School in Farmington, CT. She is survived by her children Earl N. Cutl
 DEMPSEY--Ethel S. Age 87, on December 31, 2003. Beloved mother of Richard and mother-in-law of Antonia. Commercial artist and longtime New York City resident, she had lived in Flemington, NJ since 1998. Cherished grandmother of James Dempsey, and Erin Plimley, and great-grandmother of Meaga
 GOLDSTEIN -- Helen. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a deeply cherished Jewish communal leader, the wife of Rabbi Leonard Goldstein, and the proud mother of two sons from whose endeavors she derived much satisfaction. Heartfelt condolences are extended to Rabbi Go
 HOOK--Lucyle, Ph.D. The Barnard College community mourns the loss of beloved Professor Emerita Lucyle Hook. She was an inspired teacher of English to Barnard students from 1948 to 1967. She was also a generous benefactor, establishing funds for student and academic support and maintaining a
 JOYCE--Patricia Mallon, died at home in Great Barrington, MA, on January 6, 2004. Her husband, Alfred, prede ceased her in 1990. She graduated from St. Joseph's College in Brooklyn. She was a guidance counselor in the New York City public school system. Survived by her sister, Marie McCorma
 KIRCHGAESSNER -- Miriam (Mia) Rachel (nee Yoseloff). On January 6, 2004, suddenly, unexpectedly and tragically, we lost Mia forever. Throughout her 34 years of life, she was an inspiration to all who had the privilege of knowing her. A securities analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein, Mia was br
 McCABE--Patricia. 75, of NY, NY died Tuesday, January 6, 2004 at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, CT. Born October 4, 1928 in Albany, NY, she was the daughter of the late Eugene and Dorothy Mosher McCabe. She was an administrative assistant to photographer Mr. Irving Penn. She is surviv
 NAKAMURA--Kiharu. April 14, 1913 to January 5, 2004. Famous former Tokyo geisha, slient screen actress, teacher, consultant and author. Died peacefully in her home in New York City. She is survived by her loving partner Robert E. Lee of New York City, her son, Masakatsu Ota and his wife, No
 SANK--Evelyn, born 1915, daughter of Isidore & Dora Aptakin, beloved wife of Philip, sister of Geraldine Marcus, passed away in Sherman Oaks, CA., January 6, 2004. She is survived by her children, Leslie & Stewart. Camp Colang forever! Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180
 SILVIA--Judith Hidler, 63, died December 28 at home in Newport, RI. She was the wife of James M. Silvia, a teacher at St. Bernard's School, NYC. Her first marriage to Jack Richardson, author and playwright, ended in divorce. She was most recently executive director of The Ann Norton Sculptu
 VARMA--Santosh, Ph.D. On January 5, 2004. We are devastated by the tragic death of our dedicated scientist. Santosh will be remembered by her dedication to her work, her lovely smile and caring nature. Our deepest sympathy to her niece Alka Gomoka and her entire family. Arthur M. Spiro, Cha
 Joan Delano Aiken, a prodigious weaver of tales for adults and children, died on Sunday at her home in Petworth, in West Sussex, England. She was 79. Her death was announced by Brandt & Hochman, her literary agents, in New York. Ms. Aiken's fiction could have a Dickensian at
 ALDRICH -- Winifred. The Board and staff of the The Aldrich Contemporary Art Museum deeply mourn the passing of Wynn Aldrich, widow of Museum Founder, Larry Aldrich. We remember her warm smile and generous heart and extend our deepest sympathies to her family and friends.       
 BORKO--Marilyn, 77. Beloved wife of Herman for 55 years. Loving mother of Alan and Bennett. Devoted mother-inlaw of Marion and Susan. Proud grandmother of Robyn, Seth, Allison, Daniel. Sister of Jerry Werfel. She faced death as she lived her life-with bravery, courage and dignity. Funeral t
 DAME--Dr. Enid Sue Jacobs. It is with the deepest regret that we mourn the passing on December 25, 2003 of a poet, editor, teacher, essayist and Jewish feminist whose life and work was a paradigm of character, courage and compassion. She received her baccalaureate from Towson State College,
 LUSK--Ruth. The trustees, administration and staff of Blythedale Children's Hospital are saddened by the passing of Ruth, beloved wife of our dear friend, trustee and former Chair of the Board, George Lusk. In her work with hospice patients and with children in need, and in her relatioships
 McCABE--Patricia. 75, of NY, NY died Tuesday, January 6, 2004 at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, CT. Born October 4, 1928 in Albany, NY, she was the daughter of the late Eugene and Dorothy Mosher McCabe. She was an administrative assistant to photographer Mr. Irving Penn. She is surviv
 MILCHMAN--Viola. On January 8 in Boca Raton, FL in her 94th year. Beloved mother of Laura Labaton, adoring grandmother of Mark and Stephen Labaton, doting great-grandmother of Max and Ellie. She was fiercly courageous and independent, unboundedly devoted to her family, and optimistic and up
 NORTON--Noreen M., 87, of Marco Island, Florida, died Monday, January 5, 2004. A resident since 1991, she had previously lived in Smoke Rise, NJ. She is survived by two children: Stan (Kristen) Norton and Noreen Norton. Services and burial were held in Florida.       
 PRYSTOWSKY--Rose, MD. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are deeply saddened by the death of Rose Prystowsky, MD, beloved mother of Michael Prystowsky, MD, university chair, Department of Pathology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and pathologist-in-chief, 
 SANK--Evelyn, born 1915, daughter of Isidore & Dora Aptakin, beloved wife of Philip, sister of Geraldine Marcus, passed away in Sherman Oaks, CA., January 6, 2004. She is survived by her children, Leslie & Stewart. Camp Colang forever! Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180
 SHOMER--Helene, 88, on January 4, 2004 (11 years to the day after her beloved husband Eddy's passing). Before retiring, she was a lifelong musician, playing violin for both the New York City Opera and the New York City Ballet orchestras for 47 years. Prior to that, during the bigband era, s
 SIDES--Patricia A. Died in her sleep January 1, 2004, after a long illness. Born in Cyprus, she was raised in California in Riverside and San Mateo, and educated at Pomona College, Stanford University and Universita' di Firenze. An adventurous spirit, she combined her love of travel with wr
 ZUNZ--Sylvia M., 81, of Fort Lee, NJ and Stockbridge, MA died Wednesday, January 7, 2004. Beloved and treasured wife of Lyonel E. Zunz for 58 years. Devoted and loving mother of Dr. Sharyn J. Zunz of Durham, NH and Gail C. Zunz of Arlington, MA. Dear sister of Marlene Facher of Nutley, NJ. 
 Fraydele Oysher, a star of the Yiddish theater and a member of a musical dynasty, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan, said her daughter, the singer and comedian Marilyn Michaels. She was 90. The daughter of a cantor, Ms. Oysher began her career as a child actress in the Yiddish
 CURTAYNE--Grace S., age 94, of Southbury, died January 8, 2004 at East Hill Woods Health Care Center after a brief illness. She was the widow of E. Vincent Curtayne. Mrs. Curtayne was born October 5, 1909 in Brooklyn, NY, the last of ten children of the late NY Supreme Court Justice Peter P
 DEVINE--Esther Cecelia, of Riverdale and Smallwood, NY, died on January 8, 2004 at the age of 89. Beloved wife of the late Ambrose ''Jack'' Devine. Loving mother of Evelyn Gage, Mary McGrath, Elizabeth Carle, Suzanne Campbell and loving mother-in-law to their husbands. Cherished grandmother
 GUSSEN--Ruth, M.D. Beloved mother of James Gussen, sister of Dr. Raymond Marcus and long-time companion, Professor Philip Levine, passed away December 31, 2003 in Los Angeles, after a long bout with cancer. She was a full professor of pathology at the UCLA Medical School and a nationally re
 SALZ--Elisabeth. The Officers, Trustees and members of Ocean Beach Club mourn the passing of their friend and member and send heartfelt condolences to her family. Sandy Paskin, President Nancy Bach, Secretary       
 SCHLOSS--Patti nee O'keefe of New York. Beloved wife of Michael Schloss, devoted daughter to Florence and the late Harold Adler, adored and cherished by her many friends. Died January 8, 2004. Patti was an Alumnus of Bellevue Nursing School. Devoted to her profession, she became the Head Nu
 ZUNZ--Sylvia. We mourn the passing of Sylvia Zunz, beloved wife of 58 years of Lyonel Zunz, esteemed and distinguished Chairman of the Board of Trustees of The Community School, who has offered unmatched and dedicated leadership to New Jersey's and New York's learning disabled children for 
 GUSSEN--Ruth, M.D. Beloved mother of James Gussen, sister of Dr. Raymond Marcus and long-time companion, Professor Philip Levine, passed away December 31, 2003 in Los Angeles, after a long bout with cancer. She was a full professor of pathology at the UCLA Medical School and a nationally re
 LASLEY--Allison. It is with deep sadness that we note the passing of Allison Lasley, a good neighbor, a kind friend and an active participant in our community as a past member of the Board of Directors. She will be greatly missed. Board of Directors and Shareholders of 70 East 77 Street, In
 LEE--Sr. Mary Robertine. Beloved member for 76 years of the Sisters of Charity, Convent of Mary the Queen, on January 9, 2004. Born Margaret M. Lee, on September 26, 1908, in Brooklyn, NY, she was the dear sister of Ann Christman and the late Marie McCarthy, Robert and Joseph Lee. Devoted a
 McCABE--Bette Jane. We salute our dear friend and colleague from the JWT PR days. BJ's creativity, passion for her craft, and love of life will long be remembered. Jim Ahtes Rhoda Green Tom Goodman       
 MEYER -- Elizabeth. We mourn the passing of Elizabeth Meyer, age 60, artist and educator, who died Wednesday, January 7th, of complications from pneumonia. Known to her friends and family as Betsy, she was an accomplished painter, whose works are part of numerous public and private collecti
 PRYSTOWSKY--Rose, M.D. Advocate for women, psychiatrist, devoted wife and mother. Rose Prystowsky, M.D., passed away on January 7, 2003, as a result of a fire that engulfed her home in Nutley, New Jersey. She was 82 years old. Dr. Prystowsky was born Rose Poliakoff, the youngest of seven ch
 SAND--Barbara L. On December 22, 2003. Writer, musician. Loving mother of Gila, Jordan and Michael; grandmother of Olivia, Milo, Oliver and Charlotte. Memorial service will be held at the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 W. 68 St., New York, NY, Tuesday, January 27 at 3:00 PM. Donations in h
 SCHLOSS--Patti nee O'keefe of New York. Beloved wife of Michael Schloss, devoted daughter to Florence and the late Harold Adler, adored and cherished by her many friends. Died January 8, 2004. Patti was an Alumnus of Bellevue Nursing School. Devoted to her profession, she became the Head Nu
 SEAGLE--Janet M. Of Mendham, NJ, Golf historian, lecturer, and Curator and Librarian of the Museum and Archives of the United States Golf Association in Far Hills, N.J. We lost our beloved aunt December 25, 2003. She was born in Spokane, WA and grew up in the East. She attended Ohio Wesleya
 SHIKORA--Ruth Beth. Beloved wife of Martin. Devoted mother of Andra and Mindy. Dear sister of Louis Meyers and Sheila Rosenberg. Cherished grandmother of David, Jaffe, Justin, Jarett, Zak and Matthew. Devoted aunt of Jayson, Mitchell, Gregg, Pamela and Amy. She will always be forever in our
 SIDES--Patricia A. Died in her sleep January 1, 2004, after a long illness. Born in Cyprus, she was raised in California in Riverside and San Mateo, and educated at Pomona College, Stanford University and Universita' di Firenze. An adventurous spirit, she combined her love of travel with wr
 SOLOVE--Jean. On January 5, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Curtis Solove. Loving mother of Richard and Stephanie. Loving great-grandmother, grandmother, great aunt and aunt. She loved and was loved by too many to mention. No words can express how deeply she will be missed.       
 TURNBULL -- Mary Beryl Patch, on January 7, 2004 of Washington, D.C. and Southampton, New York, formerly of Montclair, New Jersey. The beloved mother of Constance Nyatta and her husband Mwasi of Nairobi, Kenya and Joan Turnbull Carl and her husband Bernard of Washington, D.C, died peacefull
 WILSON--Styra Dorfeld. 82, of Rockville Centre, NY, wife of the late Sidney, passed away on January 8th, 2004. Devoted mother of Carole (Paul) Rapport and Robert (Alice) Wilson. Loving grandmother of David, Anne, Matthew and Michael, great-grandmother of Mark. Styra is survived by her siste
 HORN -- Nancy Jo. Suc cumbed after a long illness on Saturday January 10, surrounded by her loving family, husband Dr. Steven Horn, Jonathan and Daria Horn, Jacqueline and Todd Frank and grandson Zachary, sisters Harriet and Julia and mother Shirley and husband John, and loving aunt Jean. N
 PRESTIN--Frieda. Age 92, of Tampa, FL, died Saturday. Mrs. Prestin was preceeded in death by her husband Henry and a daughter Rena Yannopoulos. Survived by her daughter, Lorna Michaelson, Tampa; five grandchildren, including Maia Michaelson, Manhattan, NY, and Jay Michaelson, Brooklyn, NY; 
 SCHLOSS--Patti nee O'keefe of New York. Beloved wife of Michael Schloss, devoted daughter to Florence and the late Harold Adler, adored and cherished by her many friends. Died January 8, 2004. Patti was an Alumnus of Bellevue Nursing School. Devoted to her profession, she became the Head Nu
 FOX--Helen Z. Riverdale, NY and Margate, FL, passed away peacefully on January 11. She was the loving and devoted wife of deceased husband Jacob Fox. She leaves behind her beloved children, Jonathan and Iris Fox, Benjamin and Holly Fox, her adored grandchildren Samantha, Seth, Stuart, and Z
 PRESTIN--Frieda. Age 92, of Tampa, FL, died Saturday. Mrs. Prestin was preceeded in death by her husband Henry and a daughter Rena Yannopoulos. Survived by her daughter, Lorna Michaelson, Tampa; five grandchildren, including Maia Michaelson, Manhattan, NY, and Jay Michaelson, Brooklyn, NY; 
 SEVERIN -- Augusta, of Bronxville, NY. Wife of the late Harry M. Severin and mother of the late Gregory M. Severin. It was her hope that she left some gladsome moments to be cherished. These, she said, will be memoriam enow. Survived by many loving nieces and nephews.       
 WEBER -- Sylvia Kobrin. Passed away on January 11, 2004. Survived by her husband of 60 years, Jack; children Michael (Nancy), William, Barbara (Steven) Meyers; grandchildren Rebecca Hessel and Noah Meyers, sisters and brothersin-law, nieces and nephews. Sitting shiva today, 5 PM, at 241 Cen
 ZISENWINE -- Anne (nee Brickman). January 11, 2004. Daughter of the late Sylvia and Benjamin Brickman. Survived by her husband David Zisenwine, children Daniel, Joel (Ella), and Tamar, grandson Itai, sister Rita Effros (Edward), nieces Marse Gatof, Rachel Effros, and nephews Mark Feitlinger
 Elizabeth Kenowsky Fisher, who with her husband, Zachary Fisher, helped bring the aircraft carrier Intrepid to its Hudson River berth as a floating museum, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. Her death was announced yesterday by the Intrepid Foundation, which was fo
 Georgette Klinger, who 60 years ago mixed a secret ingredient or two with common sense and created a recipe for clear skin -- and a chain of centers to pamper it -- died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, said her daughter, Kathryn Klinger Belton. She was 88. Miss Klinge
 CASALINI--Frieda May. Also known as Fritzi, age 93, died January 12, 2004, in the comfort of her home in New York City. She is survived by her husband of 45 years, Angelo F. Casalini, daughter, Valerie F. Petersen, granddaughter Gille K. Petersen and sister Mitzi Zarr. She attended The Coop
 FISHER -- Elizabeth. With great sadness we acknowledge the passing of our dear aunt Elizabeth. Together with our uncle Zachary, she inspired not only us but thousands of people with their philanthropic efforts and patriotic hearts. We will carry on your good works and we will miss you dearl
 LANS--Barbara E., died Monday, January 12, 2004 on a beautiful snowy morning she would have greeted with a child's joy, of complications resulting from a fall, which is to say from her fierce independence. She was the Director of the BEL Gallery in Westport which mounted more than 200 exhib
 SEVERIN--Augusta, age 89 of Bronxville, NY. Wife of the late Harry M. Severin and mother of the late Gregory M. Severin. It was her hope that she left some gladsome moments to be cherished. These, she said, will be memoriam enow. Survived by many loving nieces, nephews and grandchildren.   
 STODDART--Norma Agnes. Born in Edinburgh, Scotland on May 12, 1944, Norma died at her home in Santa Monica, CA. on January 12, 2004 surrounded by family and friends, after a heroic 12-year struggle with breast cancer. She graduated from Edinburgh University in 1969 with a Ph.D. in biochemis
 WEISS--Ruth. Age 70. Loving mother of Ken Weiss. Caring sister of Ron Derin. Proud grandmother of Roy and Gil. A pillar of strength with a quick wit to boot, she lived her life for her family, especially her pride and joys, ''the boys'', including Steven, who predeceased her at the tender a
 WOLFMAN--Mathilda (Billie Schwartz). Passed away peacefully on January 11, 2004 in her 96th year. A beloved mother of Judy and Al, Stephen and Sandra, grandmother to Larry, Madeline, Randi, Jeffrey, Marcie, Lauren, Leslie and Bobby, great grandmother to Joe, Greg, Alexa, Nathan, Isaac and M
 AMARI--Elizabeth A. (nee Benardello) on January 14, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Vincent A. Loving and devoted mother of Jacqueline, Philip and the late Christopher V. She is survived by her dear sister, Rosemarie Marino. Funeral Saturday 8:30AM from the Marine Park Funeral Home, 3024 Que
 FISHER -- Elizabeth. The Board of Trustees, faculty and staff of The Rockefeller University and the scientists and staff of the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research mourn the loss of our cherished friend and benefactor, Elizabeth Fisher. A tireless patriot, devote
 LANS--Barbara E., died Monday, January 12, 2004 on a beautiful snowy morning she would have greeted with a child's joy, of complications resulting from a fall, which is to say from her fierce independence. She was the Director of the BEL Gallery in Westport which mounted more than 200 exhib
 LIPSCOMB--Roberte. Sarah Lawrence College mourns the death of Roberte Lipscomb, Emerita, member of the Sarah Lawrence French faculty. She loved teaching, and she was loved in return by generations of students. A mainstay of the French faculty from 1962 to 1985, she was a superb teacher and 
 SHEIN--Ethel Pauline. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the immeasurable and untimely loss of Ethel Shein, a beloved member of the Museum's staff for 38 years. Ethel began her career at the Museum in 1965 as Promotions Manager in its Department of Publications. Betwee
 TRAPP -- Katarina. Of 4 Heathcote Road, Scarsdale, died on January 11, 2004 of natural causes at the age of 100 (birth date November 30, 1903). She had lived in Scarsdale over 35 years. She is survived by her only child, Christa Schutz of Scarsdale, three grandchildren Anton Schutz of Roche
 WEISMAN--Anna, died at home on Tuesday, January 13, two months after her 100th birthday. She is survived by her daughter Ivy W. Blumenfeld and her husband Marvin, her four loving grandchildren and her seven great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be held Friday, January 16 at 12:00PM, Ha
 Uta Hagen, the formidable and wide-ranging stage actress who electrified audiences with her Tony Award-winning performance as the ferocious, tart-tongued Martha in the original Broadway production of Edward Albee's ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' in 1962, died yesterday at her home in M
 Olivia Goldsmith, author of the popular comic novel ''The First Wives Club,'' died late yesterday afternoon at Lenox Hill Hospital from complications related to anesthesia, said her literary agent, Nicholas Ellison. She was 54. On Wednesday she entered the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Thr
 CANDA--Catherine Bage, 90, died peacefully on Tuesday, January 13. She is loved and missed by three generations of cousins, Oliver G. Gayley and Molly Gayley Gnichtel and their families. She was a member of St. Thomas Church since 1949, was directress of the Altar Guild for many years and a
 CARUSONA--Agnes ''Pat'', 83, died January 13, 2004. Former resident of Harrison, NY, for over 20 years. Devoted wife and homemaker. Married to the late Fred J. Carusona, Esq., who predeceased her in 1991. They were regulars at the Stork Club, Bill's Gay 90's, etc., and a member of the NYAC.
 FISHER--Elizabeth Kenowsky. The Boy Scouts of America, Greater New York Councils acknowledges the passing of E.K. Fisher and extends its sincere sympathy to her family and many friends. Mrs. Fisher and her late husband, Zachary, were strong supporters of scouting and other charitable progra
 FRANK--Marylyn (nee Goldberg), age 70, on January 14, 2004. Resident of The Fountains in Lake Worth, FL and North Shore Towers in NY. Lynn was predeceased by her husband Arthur Frank in 1996. She is survived by her devoted children Robert (Robin), Wendy (Donna) and Joseph (Nancy). She will 
 HAGEN--Uta. The Board of Directors, faculty and staff of the HB Studio and the HB Playwrights Foundation Theatre deeply mourn the death of their cherished and noble co-founder and president, who died peacefully on January 15, 2004 after a long battle with complications following a stroke tw
 KLUTTZ--Virginia Thatcher. We extend our most heartfelt sympathy to Barbara Thatcher Missett and her sons JV and Steven on the loss of their beloved mother and grandmother. Her character, lively spirit and dignity in bearing her long illness served as an example to all who had the privilege
 SHEIN--Ethel Pauline. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the immeasurable and untimely loss of Ethel Shein, a beloved member of the Museum's staff for 38 years. Ethel began her career at the Museum in 1965 as Promotions Manager in its Department of Publications. Betwee
 STODDART--Norma Agnes. Born in Edinburgh, Scotland on May 12, 1944, Norma died at her home in Santa Monica, CA. on January 12, 2004 surrounded by family and friends, after a heroic 12-year struggle with breast cancer. She graduated from Edinburgh University in 1969 with a Ph.D. in biochemis
 VERRILL--Jean, 80, of Atlanta. Educator, student and mother, passed away peacefully on Jan. 14, 2004 at Hospice Atlanta after a long illness. She was born in New York City on January 27, 1923, but called Atlanta her home, and hometown, since 1965. She was the wife of F. Glenn Verrill. They 
 Mary Jean Crenshaw Tully, a founding strategist of modern feminism and former president of the National Organization for Women's Legal Defense and Education Fund, died on Dec. 27 at White Plains Hospital. She was 78 and lived in Armonk, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, said her da
 CANDA--Catherine Bage, 90, died peacefully on Tuesday, January 13. She is loved and missed by three generations of cousins, Oliver G. Gayley and Molly Gayley Gnichtel and their families. She was a member of St. Thomas Church since 1949, was directress of the Altar Guild for many years and a
 COHEN--Ethel H., on January 15, 2004. Cherished wife, partner and best friend of 59 years to Ted. Loving and devoted mother to Sande (Mitch), Judy (Bengt) and Howard. Adored grandmother to Lisa, Elizabeth and Erik. Beloved sister to Sylvia and the late Mae. Dutiful and devoted daughter. Lov
 FRANK--Marylyn (nee Goldberg), age 70, on January 14, 2004. Resident of The Fountains in Lake Worth, FL and North Shore Towers in NY. Lynn was predeceased by her husband Arthur Frank in 1996. She is survived by her devoted children Robert (Robin), Wendy (Donna) and Joseph (Nancy). She will 
 GODSEY--Margie G., 94, of Shelburne, died peacefully at her home on January 14, 2004, following an extended illness. She was born Margaret Elsie in Highland Park, NJ, on April 26, 1909, the daughter of the late Louis W. and Bessie Conover. She was married to the late Frederick W. Goetze of 
 HIRSCH--Hedwig ''Hedy'', age 93. On January 16, 2004. Devoted mother of Caroline (Richard) Marlin and beloved grandmother ''Oma'', of Arthur (Caroline) and Steven (Heidi) Magnus. Cherished great grandmother of Alexander, Robert and Tyler. Hedy was a Holocaust refugee and saved the lives of 
 KLUTTZ--Virginia Thatcher. We extend our most heartfelt sympathy to Barbara Thatcher Missett and her sons JV and Steven on the loss of their beloved mother and grandmother. Her character, lively spirit and dignity in bearing her long illness served as an example to all who had the privilege
 MAXON--Marilyn A. Survived by her loving husband Murray of 54 years. She is also survived by her children Leslie Salvatore of Greenwich, CT, Roger Maxon of Purchase, NY, Kenneth Maxon of West Bloomfield, MI, and Nancy Pinto of Port Chester, NY, grandchildren Daniel, Michael, Peter, Tracy, A
 PHILBIN--Florence S., 82, of Canton, CT, died on January 7, 2004, in Hartford, CT. A resident of New York City for many years, she was the daughter of Stephen H. and Florence Burton Philbin. She is preceded in death by her brother, Eugene A. Philbin. A graduate of the Chapin School and the 
 RASI--Miriam (Mimi) Galek, passed away January 13, 2004, in Los Angeles, CA. Beloved mother of Stephanie Shear, cherished grandmother of Tyler, devoted sister of Shelley Meilman and loving aunt to Caren and Richard (their second mom). Mimi was gifted, dynamic, vivacious, imbued with the lov
 Kiharu Nakamura, a geisha in Tokyo in the 1930's who wrote a popular memoir and taught sopranos how to portray the most famous geisha in fiction, Madama Butterfly, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Jackson Heights, Queens. She was 90. The report of her death came from Artemis Willis, wh
 CAHILL--Kathryn McGinity. Beloved wife of Kevin and mother of Kevin, Sean, Christy, Brendan, Denis and six grandchildren, died peacefully in her home. The funeral will be at Our Lady of Miraculous Medal Church in Point Lookout, LI, on Monday, January 19, at 10 AM, and there will be a memori
 COHEN--Ethel H., on January 15, 2004. Cherished wife, partner and best friend of 59 years to Ted. Loving and devoted mother to Sande (Mitch), Judy (Bengt) and Howard. Adored grandmother to Lisa, Elizabeth and Erik. Beloved sister to Sylvia and the late Mae. Dutiful and devoted daughter. Lov
 COLLIER -- Carol Cheston. Daughter of Daniel and Anna Cheston and wife to George Collier and Donald M. Schliemann. Carol Collier died at the age of 80, Sunday, January 11 of natural causes. A 1946 graduate and faculty member of Columbia University Presbyterian Hospital School of Nursing. Sh
 COLYTON--Lady Barbara, January 15, 2004 in Manhattan. Beloved wife of the late Lord Henry. Services private. Contributions in her name may be made to the Lupus Foundation, 149 Madison Ave, NYC 10016       
 DiCLEMENTE--Berdine A. 90, died January 11, 2004. Married to the late Frank ''Deke'' DiClemente, who predeceased her in 2001. For over 40 years, they mentored multiple generations of students, including U.S. Presidents George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush at Phillips Andover Academy. She is
 FETTER--Ida Rebecca. At age 85, after 62 wonderful years of marriage to husband Norman, Ida finally left this earth, a victim of Alzheimer's disease. She will be sorely missed by all who knew her because she was a beautiful person both inside and out. She spent a lifetime of service to the 
 FRANK--Marylyn (nee Goldberg), age 70, on January 14, 2004. Resident of The Fountains in Lake Worth, FL and North Shore Towers in NY. Lynn was predeceased by her husband Arthur Frank in 1996. She is survived by her devoted children Robert (Robin), Wendy (Donna) and Joseph (Nancy). She will 
 GOLDSTEIN -- Helen Fried Kirshblum. ''She opens her mouth to impart wisdom; and the teaching of kindness is ever on her tongue'' (Proverbs 31:26). We mourn the passing of Helen Fried Kirshblum Goldstein, beloved mother of our trustee, Arthur Fried, who has continued in her path of wise coun
 GONZALES--Bobbie, died in Fort Collins, CO on January 7, 2004, of ALS. Barbara Delores Gonzales was born on April 25, 1926, in Manhattan. After graduating from Hunter College High School, she earned her Bachelor's Degree from Sarah Lawrence College. She married Larry Ellman and had four chi
 GONZALEZ -- Mercedes F. Died peacefully on January 15, 2004 after a long battle with Alzheimer's. Born and grew up in Brooklyn, NY; worked all her life in New York City. Daughter of Andres Fernandez and Maria Perez both from Spain. Wife of the late Emilio Gonzalez. Beloved and cherished by 
 HIRSCH--Hedwig ''Hedy'', age 93. On January 16, 2004. Devoted mother of Caroline (Richard) Marlin and beloved grandmother ''Oma'', of Arthur (Caroline) and Steven (Heidi) Magnus. Cherished great grandmother of Alexander, Robert and Tyler. Hedy was a Holocaust refugee and saved the lives of 
 JUZAK--Tatania, 83, on January 15, 2004, after a brief struggle with cancer and complications from chemotherapy. Dr. Juzak leaves behind her beloved sister, Mary, of Willimantic, CT. Her beloved oldest sister, Anne, preceded her in death only 6 months ago. Dr. Juzak is also survived by her 
 KELLY--Billie Ann Levine. ''A Celebration of a Life WellLived,'' will be held for Billie on Sunday, January 25, 2004, at 3 PM, at Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in New York. All of her friends and colleagues and their families are most welcome to attend. Please 
 KINZER--Hadassah D. Died at 89, on January 13, after a stroke. An active interior designer and member of the American Society of Interior Designers, she had a distinctive and unerring personal style. Her ever-present hats and cigars smoked in a holder made her memorable. Contributions in he
 LARSEN--Margaret Zerbe. Born in Euclid, Ohio, on June 6, 1903, the daughter of Jerome Brainard Zerbe and Susan Eichelberger. She was ''Margot'' to all who knew her, the widow of Roy E. Larsen, President of Time Inc. for 21 years and Vice Chairman before his retirement in 1979. An avid birde
 LAUB--Ruth H. Of Cedarhurst, Long Island, and Tamarac, Florida, died January 16, 2004. Devoted wife, adoring mother, grandmother and great - grandmother whose life was devoted to her family. We love you. We will miss you desperately and will think of you constantly. Your devoted family Kenn
 MURANYI--Donna (Slocum), 75, of Manhattan, died January 8, 2004. A granddaughter of Charles Gristede and founder of the West Village Nursery School, she worked in publishing, advertising, textile design, and teaching, and was an accomplished artist. She is survived by two sisters, a son, a 
 O'DONOVAN -- Margaret J. On January 16, 2004 at age 95. Widow of the beloved Leo J. O'Donovan Jr. and adored, mother of Rev. Leo J. O'Donovan, S.J. Forever fond of cousins in Albany, N.Y., Boston, Ma, Cork City and Dublin, Ireland, Lake Forest, Il, Los Angeles, Ca, Madrid, Spain, Miami, Fl 
 PEKEROW--Meredith. January 14 in Amsterdam. Born Brooklyn May 8, 1943 to Boris and Bert Pekerow. Brooklyn College grad. She shared her passion for life, love and travel with her most cherished possession, her beloved son Lucas, and with all those who knew her. A one-of-a-kind. Survived by s
 PHILBIN--Florence S., 82, of Canton, CT, died on January 7, 2004, in Hartford, CT. A resident of New York City for many years, she was the daughter of Stephen H. and Florence Burton Philbin. She is preceded in death by her brother, Eugene A. Philbin. A graduate of the Chapin School and the 
 RASI--Miriam (Mimi) Galek, passed away January 13, 2004, in Los Angeles, CA. Beloved mother of Stephanie Shear, cherished grandmother of Tyler, devoted sister of Shelley Meilman and loving aunt to Caren and Richard (their second mom). Mimi was gifted, dynamic, vivacious, imbued with the lov
 RICE--Jacqueline Miller. Reluctantly passed away on January 13th after a short confrontation with cancer. She was born on April 14, 1931, in Portland, Oregon, the only daughter to James F. and Marion L. Miller. Graduating from Stanford University in '53 with a B.A. in English, she went to l
 SHEIN--Ethel Pauline. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the immeasurable and untimely loss of Ethel Shein, a beloved member of the Museum's staff for 38 years. Ethel began her career at the Museum in 1965 as Promotions Manager in its Department of Publications. Betwee
 van BIEMA--Anne J., 88, died January 14, 2004 in Manhattan. She was predeceased by her husband, Hendrick H. van Biema. She was active in the Women's City Club, founded and became president of The Ukiyo-e-Society of America and bequested her collection of Japanese prints to The Sackler Galle
 WOLF--Norma. 73, of Teaneck, NJ. Survived by her husband William, sons Adam and Leonard, grandchildren Samantha, Jesse, Molly and Daniel.       
 DODGE--Phyllis Boushall. 80, wife of Cleveland E. Dodge Jr. Died peacefully on January 17, 2004, at her home in Pownal, VT. She will be greatly missed by her family and friends.       
 HILL--Sally Foss. Died peacefully in her home in Princeton, NJ, on Friday, January 16th, surrounded by her family. Sally is survived, loved, and missed by her husband, James Scott Hill, by her four children (Richard, Chessye, Cynthia, and Michael), by their spouses (Frances, Frederick, Mich
 LIVINGSTON -- Jacqueline Hammond. Died on Cape Cod, MA, January 11, 2004. Lived her life well and with dignity. Much loved and greatly missed by her children Ogden and Madeleine, and grandchildren Mishal, Ogden and Ingrid. Funeral mass on January 20 at St. John's Evangelist Church, Pocasset
 SABLE--Yetta. On January 14, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Devoted mother of Monty and Shelly. Cherished grandmother and aunt. We will miss her great sense of humor and enormous presence. Service Monday 12:30 pm at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, NY.       
 SIRULNICK--Mildred (Marcy). Beloved sister of Philip and Pearl Levine. Aunt of Donald, Robert, and Mary. Marcy, who lived her life with grace, style and generosity, passed peacefully from this world on the 16th of January. She will always remain in our hearts and memory. SIRULNICK -
 TURNER--Margaret Nimmo Rogers. 93, formerly of Darien, CT, and Sanibel, FL, died Wednesday, January 14, 2004, in Columbus, NC. Mrs. Turner was the widow of Robert L. Turner Sr. She is survived by a daughter, Louisa Turner of New York; a son and daughter-in-law, Robert L. Turner Jr. and Otil
 ULNICK--Fanny. Wife of the late Martin, beloved sister of the late Leah Pliskin and the late Artie Gertner, died on Tuesday, January 13, after a brief illness. Our beloved aunt Fanny was a unique and remarkable person who endured painful losses in her lifetime but never lost her love of lif
 Therese Thau Heyman, a curator of photographs, graphic art and drawings and an expert on American photographic history, died Friday in Berkeley, Calif. She was 74. The cause was pneumonia, said John Cummings, associate chancellor at the University of California, Berkeley, where I. M
 ABRAMS--Frances (Loeb), 90, devoted mother of Milton and Cary and their wives, Linda and Joan, passed away peacefully on January 19. Devoted grandmother of Max and Carly, predeceased by her beloved husband, Max. She was President of the Sisterhood of Congregation Emunath Israel, B'nai Brith
 APRILL--Hilda. Beloved wife of the late M. Lionel Aprill. Loving mother of Mina and Richard Aibel, Norman and Terri Aprill. Adored grandmother of Louise and Daniel Litt, Daniel Aibel, Michael and Sarah Aprill, Alexa Aprill, and Danielle. Cherished great-grandmother of Layla and Lionel. Devo
 CZEISLER--Ruth (nee Rubin) Loving wife of Gene for 55 years, devoted mother of Barbara and Ed, adoring grandmother of Alyssa, Justin and Gabriel and of Heather of blessed memory, beloved sister of Herbert and Justice Rose Rubin. Always in pursuit of excellence, fittingly she leaves this ear
 HERSHAFT--Florence, 89, on January 18, 2004. Devoted wife of Philip. Adoring mother of Helen Divak. Mother-inlaw of Arthur Divak and Nancy Hershaft. Grandmother of four and great-grandmother of six. Dear sister of Eugene Morris. Her family was her life. She will always be in our hearts. Ser
 LALLY--Veronica M. (nee McCarthy) entered peacefully into eternal life on January 18, at the age of 83, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Martin J. Lally, NYPD. Loving mother of Veronica M. Kehoe, the late Martin J. Lally III and Maureen B. Lally. Cherished grandmother of Alli
 MILLER--Geraldine of Boynton Beach, FL, wife of the late Alvin M. Miller, died peacefully at age 82 on January 17. She is survived by two sons, Jeffrey and Peter, and their spouses Angela and Deborah, grandchild Eric and wife Amy, and grandchild Paul. She will be missed by her family and es
 SAAL--Jessica. Our thoughts and prayers are with Carol and Harry Saal upon the untimely loss of their beloved daughter, Jessica. May the beauty of the love they shared with Jessica remain forever in their hearts and minds. May her memory always be a blessing. Our deepest sympathies to Carol
 SIRULNICK--Marcy. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Marcy Sirulnick, a cherished friend and beloved leader who was greatly admired for her extraordinary generosity and compassionate concern. Mrs. Sirulnick and her
 Dr. Harriet B. Braiker, a clinical psychologist and self-help author whose books touched on identity, resolving stress and the grief occasioned by the World Trade Center attacks, died on Jan. 10 at Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. She was 55. The cause was respirator
 ABRAMS--Frances (Loeb), 90, devoted mother of Milton and Cary and their wives, Linda and Joan, passed away peacefully on January 19. Devoted grandmother of Max and Carly, predeceased by her beloved husband, Max. She was President of the Sisterhood of Congregation Emunath Israel, B'nai Brith
 BRANDENBURGER -- Anne Bennett, 52, of Greenwich, CT died January 16 in a car accident caused by a ruptured aneurism. Born January 1, 1952 in NYC, she was the daughter of Huntley Bennett of Naples, FL and Alice Rath Bennett of Mill Valley, CA. Anne grew up in Marin County, CA, attending Ross
 BROWN--Muriel D. (nee Barry). A lifelong resident of Greenwich Village in New York City and Budd Lake, N.J. Died suddenly in her New York home on Monday, January 19. She is the mother of Sheila of Budd Lake, N.J. and New York City, Msgr. Patrick E. Brown of Stirling, N.J., Elizabeth Pettina
 EPSTEIN--Phyllis Kleiger. 85, beloved wife of the late Jack, loving mother Louise Patterson, and Marc Epstein, mother-in-law of David and Barbara, adored grandmother of Michael and Gretchen, Dan and Kristin, Adam and Jane, Brian, and Scott. Great grandmother of Jack, Clara, Julia, and Abiga
 FEIN--Lillian. Of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Lawrence, NY, died on January 16, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Marty. Adored mother of Nancy and Cliff. Devoted Nana of Austin. Treasured friend. She lived life with dignity and courage. Her wit and wisdom will continue to light our paths.    
 GATEHOUSE -- Suzanne. A lovely flower has wilted: the earthly life of Suzanne Gatehouse that lit so many lives with her unstinting effervescence, exuberant laughter and sheer joy, passed on January 19 at South Nassau Community Hospital in Oceanside, Long Island (NY 11572), close to her home
 GEFFNER--Vera Spector, on January 19, of cancer. She died peacefully in her daughter's home and is survived by her daughter, Isabel, son, David, six grandchildren and one great grandson. Her affection, wit, and spirit will forever be remembered in the hearts of her family.       
 GRUENBERG--Virginia Adler. Died January 10, 2004. Lifelong resident of Manhattan. Loved golf, tennis, dancing, travel, her home, her son John Berkowitz, and her grandson Eli Berkowitz of Putney VT. Interment private at Salem Fields Cemetery.       
 KATZ--Ruth, of Miami Beach, FL, on January 19, 2004, at age 69. She will be sorely missed by her daughter Sharon Duftler of Cedarhurst, son-in-law Brian Duftler, son Jonathan Silver of Manhattan, son David Silver of Hartford CT, daughter-in-law Karen Silver, sister Julie Press of Miami Beac
 LALLY--Veronica M. (nee McCarthy) entered peacefully into eternal life on January 18, at the age of 83, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Martin J. Lally, NYPD. Loving mother of Veronica M. Kehoe, the late Martin J. Lally III and Maureen B. Lally. Cherished grandmother of Alli
 LANE--Jodie S. The faculty, staff, administration, students and trustees of Teachers College, Columbia University profoundly mourn the tragic passing of Jodie Lane on Friday, January 16. Jodie received her M.S. in 2002 and was a fifth-year doctoral student in our program in Clinical Psychol
 SELVER -- Irmgard (nee Frank), died on January 19, 2004 in New York City surrounded by devoted family and friends. Born August 24, 1906 in Chemnitz, Germany, she married Karl Goeritz with whom she had two children. In 1939 she lost her immediate family when the boat on which they fled war-t
 ADAMS -- Dorothy. Temple Beth El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 COHN--Roberta Garfield, was the wife of actor John Garfield. Roberta married Sidney Elliot Cohn, who died in 1991. Roberta had three children, Kathryn, who died in 1945 and David, who died in 1994. She is survived by her loving daughter, Julie Garfield and her grandchildren Hannah, Aaron & 
 FEIN--Lillian. Of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Lawrence, NY, died on January 16, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Marty. Adored mother of Nancy and Cliff. Devoted Nana of Austin. Treasured friend. She lived life with dignity and courage. Her wit and wisdom will continue to light our paths.    
 FORD--Ann Postma, 81, died peacefully at home on January 19th, 2004, holding hands with her beloved husband of 55 years, Frank W. Ford, Jr.; and her devoted daughter JoAnn Ford of Westport, CT. Ann dedicated her energy and good judgment to a number of charitable and educational groups. She 
 GATEHOUSE -- Suzanne. A lovely flower has wilted: the earthly life of Suzanne Gatehouse that lit so many lives with her unstinting effervescence, exuberant laughter and sheer joy, passed on January 19 at South Nassau Community Hospital in Oceanside, Long Island (NY 11572), close to her home
 SIRULNICK -- Marcy (Mildred). The partners of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield extend their deepest condolences to Joe, Sandy, Phyllis and Carol on the loss of their beloved wife and mother, Marcy. Over the many years that Joe and Sandy have been our clients and friends, we were able 
 STAHL--Barbara Jaffe. Internationally renowned paleoichthyologist and a member of the (Manchester, NH) Saint Anselm College biology department for 50 years, died January 16 in Manchester. In addition to her husband of 52 years, Dr. David G. Stahl, her survivors include three daughters, Susa
 WELLENS -- Portia nee Pomerantz, widow of Philip L. Wellens, Corporate Counsel for the City of NY, died January 15, 2004 in Las Vegas, NV. Burial at Mt. Ararat in Lindenhurst, NY. Survived by daughter Laura Sommer, son-in-law Jack Sommer of NY and Las Vegas, and also the developer of The Al
 Ann Miller, the long-legged tap-dancer with the lacquered raven hair and Nefertiti eye makeup whose athleticism made her a staple of big-screen musicals in the 1940's and 50's, died on Thursday at a Los Angeles hospital. She was believed to be about 80. The cause was lung cancer, Es
 COHN--Roberta Garfield, was the wife of actor John Garfield. Roberta married Sidney Elliot Cohn, who died in 1991. Roberta had three children, Kathryn, who died in 1945 and David, who died in 1994. She is survived by her loving daughter, Julie Garfield and her grandchildren Hannah, Aaron & 
 DARRELL--Mary Hand, 98, died on Tuesday, January 20, 2004. She was a daughter of the late Judge Learned Hand and Frances Hand, and the wife of the late Norris Darrell, a partner of Sullivan & Cromwell, and President of the American Law Institute. She was graduated from the Brearley School a
 LEBER--Edith. On January 22, 2004. Faithful wife of the late Leopold. Beloved mother of George and Bernice and mother-in-law of Yvonne and David Rosenberg. Cherished grandmother of Andrew and Melissa Leber and Aaron Rosenberg. Devoted aunt of Mark and Vivian and children. Dear sister-in-law
 MONTAG--Mildred. Adelphi University mourns the passing of Dr. Mildred Montag. From 1943-1948 she shared her knowledge, vision and commitment to educational excellence with the Adelphi community as the first director of the School of Nursing. She was a visionary nurse educator whose innovati
 REGENT -- Lee. Beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Lee Regent died Wednesday in Mamaroneck, NY, she was 88 years old. She is survived by her son, two granddaughters and four great-grandchildren. A kind, gentle soul. She will be missed by all.       
 STERNBERG--Matilda Renny. Died Sarasota, Florida on January 21, 2004 at the age of 87. Beloved mother of Paul and Steven, mother-in-law of Bess, wife of the late Samuel Sternberg, sister-in-law of Esther Sternberg and Rose Schechter, half-sister of Fleur Abyhoff. Donations to FiveTowns Seni
 THATCHER -- Marguerite Funston, of Greenwich, CT died on January 2, 2004, in an automobile accident. Peggy is survived by her beloved husband, John M.P. Thatcher III, four children, Peggy, Katherine, John M.P. IV, and Christina, a sister Gail Wasson of Lebanon, NH, a brother G. Keith Funsto
 FELD--Isabel. 8/29/19-1/23/00. My darling precious wife, Lover and companion for over 60 years. I will ever more love and miss you. Not a day goes by that I don't think of you and cry for you and for me. Harold FELD--Isabel. Died 1/23/2000. The Anti-Defamation League remembers Isabe
 DURANDO--Patricia A., on January 22, 2004, of Forest Hills Gardens, NY. Beloved wife of Harry. Loving, devoted and endlessly giving mother of Denise, Di and the late Douglas. Caring sister of William Sullivan, sister-in-law and aunt to many. Nurturing and adoring friend and caretaker of all
 LEBER--Edith. On January 22, 2004. Faithful wife of the late Leopold. Beloved mother of George and Bernice and mother-in-law of Yvonne and David Rosenberg. Cherished grandmother of Andrew and Melissa Leber and Aaron Rosenberg. Devoted aunt of Mark and Vivian and children. Dear sister-in-law
 STERNBERG--Matilda ''Renny''. The friends of Rock Hall Museum, Lawrence, LI are saddened by the death of our Founding Member and friend. We extend our condolences to her loving family. Marge Rosen Gutmann, Pres. Linda Barriera, Director       
 THATCHER--Virginia Wanvig. 88, of Arlington, VA, died peacefully on January 15, 2004. Loving mother of Barbara T. Missett, NYC, Judy T. O'Donnell, DE, Sheila T. Taylor, VA, R. Stephen Thatcher, VA, Dennis S. Thatcher, NYC, Joyce A. Thatcher, MA, Herbert S. Thatcher, VA, and 18 grandchildren
 Beatrice Winde, a character actress of stage, film and television, died on Jan. 3 at her home on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, two days short of her 80th birthday. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Winde received a Tony nomination for her Broadway debut in 1972,
 Dr. Olga Ladyzhenskaya, a mathematician whose work with differential equations contributed to advances in the study of fluid dynamics in areas like weather forecasting, oceanography, aerodynamics and cardiovascular science, died on Jan. 12 in St. Petersburg, Russia. She was 81. The 
 BEERE -- Adele Diamond, passed away during the evening of January 14, 2004. She is survived by her four children, Marian Sigman, Stephen Diamond, Charles Diamond, and Diane Diamond, her eight grandchildren, and her three greatgrandchildren. She grew up in the Bronx and lived most of her adu
 BOGART--Lee C. Upon the passing of Lee C. Bogart we extend our sympathy to Mary Carbone, Frank Corigliano, her friends and her family. We ask for each of them only good memories. Board of Directors, Cancer Research and Treatment Fund       
 HARTSOOK--Jane Pollard. Of Richmond, VA, died Sunday, January 18, 2004. Born May 12, 1916, in Ashland, VA, she received a BFA degree from New York State College of Ceramics in Alfred, NY, in 1939. After further studies in art education at the University of Virginia, University of Richmond, 
 KAHN--Elizabeth Marie Heslin, 86, of Mamaroneck and Palm Beach, died Saturday January 17, 2004 in NYC. Widow of Irving Berlin Kahn, she was born December 24, 1917 in NYC, daughter of the late Matthew and Elizabeth (Gabor) Heslin. She is survived by her two daughters Ruth Kahn of Brooklyn an
 KWARTLER--Ruth. On January 6, 2004 in peace at her home in Manhattan with her family. The sweetest, kindest and most adorable person imaginable. The perfect wife, the perfect mother. She was the embodiment of ''The Book of Ruth'' and we were lucky to have her unconditional love, support and
 LIPPER--Victoria G. On January 2, 2004 at age 84. Survived by beloved sister Eleanor and dearest nephews and nieces Don, Diane, Ken, Ines and Leslie. We will miss her.       
 LOWENTHAL--Lillian Plane, January 22, 2004. Beloved wife of the late William. Devoted mother of Mark Lowenthal, mother-in-law of Ilene, loving grandmother of Neil and Elena Lowenthal, Linda and Robert Tolstoi, and Roger Lowenthal. Greatgrandmother of Michael Tolstoi. Sister of the late Lewi
 MEIKLEJOHN--Cornelia Billard, died January 17th in Winter Park, FL after a brief illness. She was a woman before her time, educated at Smith and Harvard Graduate School of Architecture. A champion of literacy and the arts, she was ever involved as a philanthropist and volunteer. She is surv
 MORGAN HELIE--Geraldine V. 86, of Goat Island, Newport, RI. Survived by her children, Morgan Helie, Peter G. Helie, Michele Millard and Broderick Helie, four brothers and sisters. Donations to the National Rheumatoid Arthritis Foundation.       
 OSBORNE--Elizabeth Jane Gibby. Born November 29, 1930, in Elizabeth, NJ, to Edgar Budd Gibby and Beatrice Hadley Gibby; died January 20, 2004, at home. She had the great good fortune to benefit from six years of expert, caring and effective outpatient care by staff of the Cancer Institute o
 RINGER--Lillian. December 31, 2003. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, and sister. A talented artist, her strength, intelligence, generosity, and love will be dearly missed by her relatives and friends.       
 STERNBERG--Matilda Renny. The Five Towns Senior Center mourns the loss of our past president and friend, and extends our deepest sympathy to her family.       
 THATCHER -- Marguerite Funston, of Greenwich, CT died on January 2, 2004, in an automobile accident. Peggy is survived by her beloved husband, John M.P. Thatcher III, four children, Peggy, Katherine, John M.P. IV, and Christina, a sister Gail Wasson of Lebanon, NH, a brother G. Keith Funsto
 THATCHER--Virginia Wanvig. 88, of Arlington, VA, died peacefully on January 15, 2004. Loving mother of Barbara T. Missett, NYC, Judy T. O'Donnell, DE, Sheila T. Taylor, VA, R. Stephen Thatcher, VA, Dennis S. Thatcher, NYC, Joyce A. Thatcher, MA, Herbert S. Thatcher, VA, and 18 grandchildren
 TODD--June Hollingshead. On January, 22, 2004. Wife of the late William Henry Todd. Mother of William Henry Todd III of Essex, CT, Judith H. Todd and Peter D. Todd of Rowayton, CT. Grandmother to Trip, Amanda, Emily and Henry. A memorial service will be held at 11 AM, on Tuesday, January 27
 WEINGARTEN--Doris Dunn. 76, of New York City and Hancock, NY, passed away peacefully on January 16th, 2004. A graduate of Skidmore College (Class of 1948), she was a committed NYC art teacher, a gifted interior designer, and a lover of the arts and travel. Married to the late Aaron Weingart
 Elma Lewis, a nationally recognized arts educator who was among the first people to be awarded a MacArthur Fellowship, died on Jan. 1 at her home in Roxbury, the Boston neighborhood. She was 82. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Sarah-Ann Shaw, a former student. 
 Fanny Blankers-Koen, a Dutch housewife who emulated her hero, Jesse Owens, and won four gold medals in track and field in one Olympics -- the only woman to do so -- died yesterday in Amsterdam. She was 85. The International Association of Athletics Federations, which oversees track 
 LANES--Belle Kagan. Died January 25, 2004, at age 88. She was preceded in death by two loving husbands, Solomon Kagan and Irving Lanes, and her children, Roberta Bernstein Heber and Michael Kagan. She will be deeply missed by her grandchildren, Robyn, Stuart and Melissa, and great-grandchil
 SLAKMAN -- Frieda. 88, daughter of Rachel, died January 24. Her loving cousins and friends will miss her.       
 TODD--June Hollingshead. On January, 22, 2004. Wife of the late William Henry Todd. Mother of William Henry Todd III of Essex, CT, Judith H. Todd and Peter D. Todd of Rowayton, CT. Grandmother to Trip, Amanda, Emily and Henry. A memorial service will be held at 11 AM, on Tuesday, January 27
 WEINGARTEN--Doris Dunn. 76, of New York City and Hancock, NY, passed away peacefully on January 16th, 2004. A graduate of Skidmore College (Class of 1948), she was a committed NYC art teacher, a gifted interior designer, and a lover of the arts and travel. Married to the late Aaron Weingart
 WILEY--Dorothy Keach. Age 91, died January 24, in her sleep in her Davis, CA, home. She was the widow of William J. Wiley and formerly lived in Westchester, PA, and Randolph, NH. She is survived by her children Constance, William R., John W.R. and Andrew, and by grandchildren Catherine, Joh
 Alexandra Ripley, a writer of historical fiction who was best known for ''Scarlett,'' the officially sanctioned sequel to ''Gone With the Wind,'' died on Jan. 10 at her home in Richmond, Va. She was 70. Her daughter, Elizabeth Lyon Ripley, told The Associated Press that death result
 Charlotte Zwerin, a documentary filmmaker known for insightful depictions of visual and performing artists like Christo, Willem de Kooning, Ella Fitzgerald and Thelonious Monk, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 72. The cause was lung cancer, her niece Lisa Tesone sa
 ADLER--Nancy W., 70, died of cancer January 21, 2004. Born in Detroit, MI she came to NY at 18 to do modeling. On live TV she did commercials for the Arthur Godfrey and Jackie Gleason Shows. She served as Miss Rheingold 1955. Then married Jack Adler and they had two children. Nancy served t
 CROSS--Alexandra (Kraus). Died peacefully in her sleep at home on January 25th, aged 90. She was the widow of Dr. Anthony Kraus, and the much-loved mother of Peter Kraus. She will be equally missed by her daughter-inlaw, Evelyn, and her granddaughters Nicola and Oliva, as well as countless 
 FISHER--Jodi. The Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing of the beloved wife of Dr. Barry Fisher, mother of Jordan, Samantha and Charlie, to whom heartfelt condolences are extended, as well as to her parents, Rhoda and Richard Spiegel; her brothers, Robert and Jeffrey Sp
 LANES--Belle Kagan. Died January 25, 2004, at age 88. She was preceded in death by two loving husbands, Solomon Kagan and Irving Lanes, and her children, Roberta Bernstein Heber and Michael Kagan. She will be deeply missed by her grandchildren, Robyn, Stuart and Melissa, and great-grandchil
 LEBER--Edith. We share in the grief of Bernice, David and Aaron upon the loss of Bernice's mother, Edith Leber. She was a brave, intelligent woman with a warm heart and a great sense of humor. Fortunately, she was able to survive the Holocaust and share in the joys and successes of her chil
 MARX--Gertie F., M.D. On January 25, 2004. Loving wife of the late Eric Reiss. Trusted advisor and cousin of Ronald Simon, M.D. Treasured mentor and ''medical mother'' of Jill M. Rabin, M.D. She was Professor Emerita of Anesthesiology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY. T
 McCLURE -- Debra Levy, passed away on January 25, at age 61. She is survived by her husband William; daughters Arianne & Michele; stepdaughter Helen; son-in-law Howie; brothers David & Paul, and a wide circle of loving family and family. Memorial services will be held at Parkside Funeral Ho
 McDONALD--Tanny, died on January 25, 2004 at the age of 67 after a long battle with melanoma. She is mourned by her family, her many friends, and colleagues in the numerous theatrical productions in which her talents as actor and singer were given to audiences on Broadway, OffBroadway, and 
 MOHL--Frieda (nee Davidsohn), age 93. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Mohl. Cherished mother of Eva Last and Pearl Stillman. Devoted grandmother of Suzanne Stone, Ira Last, Ely Stillman and Rebecca Linzer. Greatgrandmother of 11. May her memory be blessed.       
 OSTERWEIL -- David, born May 2, 1919. Died peacefully on January 26, 2004. Devoted husband of Elaine (Kuhn). Loving father of Karen Walker and her husband Alan. Proud grandfather of Michelle and Stephanie. Brother of the late Jerome. Veteran of World War II. Family will receive friends on T
 SILFEN--Selma, 77 years. Beloved aunt of Michael (Lucy) and Ricky (Marilyn). Loving great-aunt of Lauren, Diana, Ben and Lydia. Passed away on January 22. We love you and will miss you. Donations in her memory may be made to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.       
 WANG--Florence Wu, beloved wife of Cheng Ching and devoted mother of Vera and Kenneth died peacefully early Saturday morning, the 17th of January surrounded by her immediate family. She was born in 1918 in China, the youngest daughter of General Wu Jing Biao, military governor of Jiangxi pr
 ZINS--Adele D., 79, of Del Ray Beach, FL and Edgartown, MA passed away peacefully on January 25, 2004. A graduate of Connecticut College (Class of 1946), Adele earned her M.A. in psychology at New York University. Married to Eugene I. Zins, M.D., mother of James, Judith, and Jacqueline, gra
 ADLER--Nancy W., 70, died of cancer January 21, 2004. Born in Detroit, MI she came to NY at 18 to do modeling. On live TV she did commercials for the Arthur Godfrey and Jackie Gleason Shows. She served as Miss Rheingold 1955. Then married Jack Adler and they had two children. Nancy served t
 FISHER--Jodi. We mourn the loss of our wonderful young daughter. Our jewel. Our treasure. You will forever live in our mind and hearts. We will keep your legacy alive in your three special children. We thank the hundreds who were touched by your love and affection and who join us in mournin
 JONAS--Margaret. Beloved wife of the late Myron. Devoted mother of Saran and Gerald. Loving mother-in-law of Ruth and Barbara. Adored grandmother of Elizabeth, Frederick, Sarah and Phoebe. Cherished great grandmother of Timothy and Julia, David, Zachary and Enza. Services Friday 10AM ''Plaz
 KAHN--Elizabeth Marie Heslin, 86, of Mamaroneck and Palm Beach, died Saturday January 17, 2004 in NYC. Widow of Irving Berlin Kahn, she was born December 24, 1917 in NYC, daughter of the late Matthew and Elizabeth (Gabor) Heslin. She is survived by her two daughters Ruth Kahn of Brooklyn an
 LEBER--Edith. We share in the grief of Bernice, David and Aaron upon the loss of Bernice's mother, Edith Leber. She was a brave, intelligent woman with a warm heart and a great sense of humor. Fortunately, she was able to survive the Holocaust and share in the joys and successes of her chil
 MARX--Gertie F., M.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of our renowned and distinguished professor emerita of anesthesiology. A member of our founding faculty, in 1954, Dr. Marx's outstanding contributions to the field of ane
 McDONALD--Tanny, died on January 25, 2004 at the age of 67 after a long battle with melanoma. She is mourned by her family, her many friends, and colleagues in the numerous theatrical productions in which her talents as actor and singer were given to audiences on Broadway, OffBroadway, and 
 OSNOS--Berna, 73, youngest child of Charles and Jane Mayer of New York City. Always an extremely generous person to individuals and charity, her light of love will live on in her children, Simon and Noah, daughters-in-law Marsha and Annette, grandchildren Victor and Leah, devoted friends, a
 OSTERWEIL -- David, born May 2, 1919. Died peacefully on January 26, 2004. Devoted husband of Elaine (Kuhn). Loving father of Karen Walker and her husband Alan. Proud grandfather of Michelle and Stephanie. Brother of the late Jerome. Veteran of World War II. Family will receive friends on T
 SILFEN--Selma, 77 years. Beloved aunt of Michael (Lucy) and Ricky (Marilyn). Loving great-aunt of Lauren, Diana, Ben and Lydia. Passed away on January 22. We love you and will miss you. Donations in her memory may be made to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.       
 WANG--Florence Wu, beloved wife of Cheng Ching and devoted mother of Vera and Kenneth died peacefully early Saturday morning, the 17th of January surrounded by her immediate family. She was born in 1918 in China, the youngest daughter of General Wu Jing Biao, military governor of Jiangxi pr
 Dr. Gertie F. Marx, a New York anesthesiologist who helped advance the use of modern epidural injections that ease women's pain during childbirth, died on Sunday at the Schervier Nursing Care Center in the Bronx, according to Dr. Jill M. Rabin, a friend and colleague. Dr. Marx was 91.      
 FISHER--Jodi. Our hearts are broken for our dear friends Barry, Rhoda, Dick, Robert, Jeffrey, Grandma Rose, and Jodi's dear children Jordan, Samantha and Charlie, and the entire Fisher and Spiegel families. Dearest Jodi, your shining light will glow forever in our hearts. Charlotte and Roge
 GENN--Minna Marder. 86, on January 27, from cancer. Formerly of Tenafly, NJ. Wife of the late Dr. George Genn. She held an Ed. M. from Harvard. She completed courses for her Ph.D. and analytic training. She participated in designing the Wechsler Intelligence tests. She was a supervising psy
 JONAS--Margaret. Beloved wife of the late Myron. Devoted mother of Saran and Gerald. Loving mother-in-law of Ruth and Barbara. Adored grandmother of Elizabeth, Frederick, Sarah and Phoebe. Cherished great grandmother of Timothy and Julia, David, Zachary and Enza. Services Friday 10AM ''Plaz
 LUCA--Mary K. (nee Tavelli). Died late on Tuesday January 27, 2004 at her home in Yonkers after a prolonged illness. Mary leaves four loving children: two daughters, Barbara Dodd and Joan Leibowitz, two sons, Robert and Paul Luca, and four adoring grandchildren, Tom Dodd, Jeremiah and Tim L
 MARX--Gertie F., MD. The Administration, Community Advisory Boards, Auxiliaries, and Medical Staff of Jacobi Medical Center mourn the death of Dr. Gertie F. Marx, Professor Emerita of Anesthesiology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, and longtime Anesthesia attending at 
 OSNOS--Berna, 73, youngest child of Charles and Jane Mayer of New York City. Always an extremely generous person to individuals and charity, her light of love will live on in her children, Simon and Noah, daughters-in-law Marsha and Annette, grandchildren Victor and Leah, devoted friends, a
 OSTERWEIL -- David, born May 2, 1919. Died peacefully on January 26, 2004. Devoted husband of Elaine (Kuhn). Loving father of Karen Walker and her husband Alan. Proud grandfather of Michelle and Stephanie. Brother of the late Jerome. Veteran of World War II. Family will receive friends on T
 TANDY--Mildred Ficken died in her sleep January 23. Born February 19, 1920 in Manhattan where her family had lived since the 1840s, she grew up on Riverside Drive while attending the Barnard School for Girls and Manhattanville College. She married Russell H. Tandy Jr. in 1942 and together t
 TEICHER--Roslyn S. (Klafter), 78, of Stratton, ME. Formerly of Easthampton, NY. Passed away peacefully January 28, 2004 at her home in the Western Mountains of Maine with her son and daughter-in-law at her side. She was the wife of the late Louis Teicher and beloved mother, mentor and frien
 STARK--Karen. Today would celebrate her 98th birthday. Named one of the ten best designers by Lord & Taylor in 1941, winner of the Fashion Critics Coty Award in 1952, the Cotton Award, the Men's Fashion Critics Award as Designer of the Year. Widow of Sanford, mother of Stephen and Joan, gra
 Janet Frame, whose vividly romantic explorations of madness and language in novels, poetry and autobiography propelled her to worldwide attention, died yesterday in Dunedin, New Zealand. She was 79. Dunedin Hospital said the cause was acute leukemia, The Associated Press reported.  
 AHERN--Ann. On January 27, 2004, of Forest Hills, N.Y. Daughter of the late Maurice and Edna Ahern. Sister of the late Charles. Also survived by her niece Michelle, sister-inlaw Jeanne and cousins William, John and Joseph O'Conor. Funeral Mass at Our Lady Queen of Martyrs Church, Forest Hil
 BASSETT--Genia Esther (nee Paltrowitz), 97. Beloved wife of the late Dr. David Bassett and the loving and adored mother of Irwin and Rita, Lawrence and Charlotte; and Ann and Fred Schwartz. She also leaves 10 grandchildren and 17 great grandchildren. A woman of high ideals and wisdom. Grave
 FIELD--Rose. Died peacefully at 95. Beloved wife of the late Arthur N. Field. Loving mother of David and Robert. Adored grandmother of Mitchel, Laurence, Michael, Jamie and Leigh. Great grandmother of Nicholas, Anna and Charles. Her family celebrates her long and wonderful life.       
 HEYN--Ethel Kenyon. Loving wife of the late Ernest Heyn, adored mother of Dalma and the late Suzy Lochridge. Beloved mother-in-law of Richard Marek and Willard Lochridge and grandmother of Diana, Christie and Julie. Died at home in New York on January 22, 2004 at age 99. Star of movies in t
 NISCE--Lourdes Z., M.D., F.A.C.R. On January 29, 2004. Attending physician and professor of radiation oncology at New York Presbyterian Hospital, Weill Cornell Medical College, and Memorial Sloan-Kettering. Pioneering woman in medicine, graceful, witty and generous; a life of love and dedic
 PECCHIOLI--Anna Elizabeth Bluhm, 86, also known as ''Betty,'' passed away on January 24, 2004. Born in New York City, she earned a B.A. degree from Hunter College and an M.A. degree from Columbia University. She taught art at Washington Irving High School until her retirement in 1971. Then 
 RUSSO--Serafina, 92, died peacefully at home, January 28, 2004. Known as Sally and Sadie to friends and family. Beloved wife of the late Nicholas L. Russo, M.D., mother of Maria T. Russo and D. Nicholas Russo; sister of Philomena DiIorio. Retired kindergarten teacher of PS 32, Queens. Her u
 SPECTOR -- Eleanor nee Friedman, 91, on January 29, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Reuben Spector, Q.C. of Montreal. Devoted mother of Linda Spector of New York City and Barbara Berlin of Montreal. Grandmother of Mark Pariser of Los Angeles. Donations in her memory may be made to Cabrini Ho
 WERFEL--Phyllis, 86, beloved mother of Steven, mother-in-law of Jeannette, grandmother of Jeffrey, passed away January 29, 2004. She will be dearly missed by all her family and friends       
 BROWN--Stefanie Lynn. Age 39. Beloved wife of David Brown. Adored mother of Emma Jo and Nikki Leigh. Cherished daughter of Diane Steiner and Paul Bernstein. Sister of David Bernstein. Daughter-in-law of Miriam Brown and Matt Brown. Stefanie's radiance, warmth, generosity and lust for life w
 KURZWEIL--Pauline. 95, of Margate, FL., on January 29, 2004. Wife of the late Leon; courageous mother of Martin (Edith), loving grandmother of Larry (Rhonda), David (Debbie), Steven (Stacey) and proud great grandmother of Jordan, Marc, Matthew, Emily, Madison, Caroline. Lifelong companion o
 MAIER--Bonnie Bogard. TV producer, friend and mentor to many, died Tuesday in Los Angeles after a heroic, five year battle with cancer, never surrendering. Survived by her daughter Molly Rose, brother Paul Bogard and mother Lorraine Bogard, as well as a legacy of strength, joy and creativit
 POWER--Targe. Of Gulf Stream, Florida on January 28, 2004 at the age of 98. Wife of the late John F. Power. Mother of Mary, John Jr., Patricia, Margaret, Catherine, James and Elizabeth. Grandmother of 28 and great grandmother of 31. Contributions in her honor may be made to St. Rita's Churc
 REINER--Lillian. On January 30, 2004, at the age of 96. Beloved wife of Dr. Leopold Reiner. Loving aunt and great aunt of Lydia, James, Robert and Laurie Nolan; Doris, Stephen and Donald Young; David Siegel, Janet Kaplan and Ruth Beer. She was a graduate of Cornell University and Columbia T
 SCHER--Susan G. Wife of Stanley. Devoted mother of William and Amy, Peter and Kim, and Alison and Andrew. Cherished grandmother of Alex, Mitchell, Emma, Jordan, Bennett, Jesse, Jacob and Jonah. Services Sunday, 10:00 AM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station PL, Great Neck, NY 
 TSAKONAS--Mary, passed away peacefully at her home in Los Angeles, CA on January 28, 2004. She is survived by her son John and daughterin-law Kerry and many nieces, nephews, godchildren, family & friends. A Forty Day Memorial Service will be conducted on March 7, 2004 at St. Spyridon Church
