 Mary Stuart, a veteran actress and pioneer of soap operas who spent 35 years as the star of one daytime series built around her, died on Thursday at her home in New York. She was 76. She died after a stroke, but had been ill with gastric cancer and bone cancer, her family said.     
 Theresa Castro, who with her husband, Bernard, made Castro virtually a synonym for convertible sofa and who was an energetic charitable benefactor in New York and Florida, died on Sunday in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 85. Her daughter, Bernadette Castro, the New York State parks commiss
 Theresa Castro, who with her husband, Bernard, made Castro virtually a synonym for convertible sofa and who was an energetic charitable benefactor in New York and Florida, died on Sunday in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 85. Her daughter, Bernadette Castro, the New York State parks commiss
 Isabelle Holland, a prolific writer of fiction for young adults and Gothic mystery novels, died on Feb. 9 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. She was 81. Ms. Holland's fiction for teenagers often focused on serious and controversial topics like rape, obesity, death and homosexuality.
 Shelley Mydans, a journalist who with her husband, the photographer Carl Mydans, covered the war in Asia in World War II and later wrote a novel based on their 21 months in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp, died on Thursday in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 86. Mrs. Mydans was the author
 Esther Afua Ocloo, who as a young woman turned a gift of less than a dollar into 12 jars of marmalade -- which she sold for a profit -- and went on to become one of Ghana's leading entrepreneurs and a prominent exponent of the role of women in economic development, died on Feb. 8 in Accra, 
 Peggy Hewett, a Broadway actress, died on March 1 at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 56. The cause was leukemia, her family said. Ms. Hewett became known in the 1980's when she starred in ''A Day in Hollywood/A Night in the Ukraine'' and ''Olympus on My Mind,'' and had
 Irene Worth, a consummate actress of the English stage celebrated for her performances in the widest diversity of classical and contemporary roles from Shakespeare to Samuel Beckett and including Chekhov, Ibsen, Shaw and Edward Albee, died on Sunday in New York. She was 85, accordin
 Marion Countess Dönhoff, an architect of German postwar journalism, over which she still towered as joint publisher of the liberal weekly Die Zeit, died yesterday. She was 92 and lived in Hamburg, where the highly influential intellectual newspaper is published. She was born into P
 Elaine Crispen Sawyer, a trusted aide to the former first lady Nancy Reagan who parried with the news media over things like Mrs. Reagan's borrowed gowns and her consultations with an astrologer, died Tuesday. The cause was pancreatic cancer, relatives said. She was 62 and lived in 
 Shirley Scott, a jazz organist who recorded dozens of albums from the 1950's to the 90's, earning her the nickname ''Queen of the Organ,'' died on Sunday at a hospital in Philadelphia. She was 67 and lived in West Chester, Pa. The cause was heart disease brought on by the diet drug 
 Eda J. LeShan, a psychologist and family counselor who brought psychoanalytic insights and common sense to two dozen books meant to guide people through life's challenges, died on March 2 at her home in Riverdale, the Bronx. She was 79. The cause was kidney failure, said a nephew, B
 Rosetta LeNoire, a theatrical producer and a pioneer of nontraditional casting who also played the sweet, all-knowing Mother Winslow on the television show ''Family Matters,'' died on Sunday in Teaneck, N.J. She was 90. She lived at the Actors' Fund Nursing and Retirement Home in En
 Robin Anderson, an Australian filmmaker whose award-winning documentaries ranged from examinations of tribal life in Papua New Guinea to social and political controversies in Australia, died here on March 8. She was 51. The cause was cancer, her family said. With her husband
 Luise Rinser, a schoolteacher who faced execution by the Nazis and lived to write about it, becoming one of the most celebrated and politically engaged authors in Germany, died last Sunday at a retirement home in Upper Bavaria. She was 90 and had lived for many years in Rome. A best
 Eileen Farrell, the American dramatic soprano who built a devoted following among the public through her frequent television appearances and was credited with the first successful crossover album, ''I've Got a Right to Sing the Blues,'' in 1960, died on Saturday in Park Ridge, N.J. She was 
 Dorothy DeLay, one of the world's most famous teachers of the violin and a mentor to two generations of players ranging from Itzhak Perlman to Midori and Sarah Chang, died on Sunday. She was 84 and lived in Upper Nyack, N.Y. Miss DeLay, as her students continued to call her even aft
 Lakshmi Knight, a dancer and teacher of Indian classical dance who performed widely in the United States in the style specifically associated with her mother, the great dancer Balasaraswati, died in Chennai, India, on Dec. 23. She was 58 and lived in Chennai and Hunterdon, N.J. The 
 Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, the enduringly popular grande dame of the British royal family and the country's most beloved symbol of courage and self-sacrifice during World War II, died in her sleep this afternoon at the Royal Lodge at Windsor Palace, a spokesman for her daughter, Quee
