 Lyn Austin, an innovative theatrical producer who, as the founder and head of the Music-Theater Group, discovered, nurtured and produced the work of Martha Clarke, Julie Taymor, Richard Foreman and other major experimental theater artists, died on Sunday in New York after being struck by a 
 ADELMAN-Renee. Of Lawrence, N.Y. and Boca Raton, FL. Passed away tragically and suddenly on Monday, October 30, 2000. Devoted wife of Seymour, beloved mother of Marcia A. Delman and Debra Buckley. Adored grandmother of Ariel and Ross Buckley, who gave Renee so much joy, pride and pleasure d
 CARSON-Joan Tavis. Of Newport Beach, California, widow of John Reese Carson, passed away on October 27, 2000. A native New Yorker, Joan Carol Tavis was born at home in Bayside, New York on December 25, 1933 to Greek and Italian parents. She was their third child, their second daughter. Joan
 FLORY-Emily. Beloved wife of Verdon, loving mother of Chris and Brian. Dear sister of Michael Abrams. You will never be forgotten. Services Thursday 12:45 P.M. at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions in her memory to Meals On Wheels.       
 FRANKEL-Ruth, on October 31, 2000, of Massapequa, LI. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Ronni and Martin Begleiter, Jeffrey and Doreen Frankel. Loving sister of Herbert Kaplan. Dearest sister-in-law of Evelyn Kaplan, Benjamin, Morton and Phyllis Frankel. Cherished grandmoth
 MILLER-Jack. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Beth Friedmann and family on the loss of her beloved father. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi Joel Felderman, President       
 OLSON-Jean. The Board and staff of the Stanley M. Isaacs Neighborhood Center extend our heartfelt condolences to the family of Jean Olson. A dedicated member of the Board, Jean's commitment and thoughtful leadership enriched us all. She will be missed. Doris C. Halaby, Chairman Barry J. Alp
 ROSARIO - SIEVERT - Heather, Ph.d. Died peacefully at home on October 30, 2000 after a courageous battle against lung cancer. Professor of English at Hostos Community College of CUNY, translator and poet. Loving wife of William Sievert. Devoted mother Liana Rosario and her husband David Aro
 SCHER-Rose. On October 31. Beloved wife of the late Herman. Devoted mother of Gerald, Marlene, Marcia (Bernstein) and the late Myron. Cherished grandmother of seven and great-grandmother of seven, who all adored her. Service Thursday, 1PM, ''Parkside'' Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave., B
 WEBER-Tamar. July 3, 1910-October 30, 2000. We celebrate the life of a remarkable woman. Mother of Jessica and Mark. Mother-inlaw of Alan Peckolick and Karen. Grandmother of Jordana and Valerie. Widow of Wally Weber. Graduate of Wellesley/'31. Tam traveled the world in her later years with 
 ADELMAN-Renee. Of Lawrence, N.Y. and Boca Raton, FL. Passed away tragically and suddenly on Monday, October 30, 2000. Devoted wife of Seymour, beloved mother of Marcia A. Delman and Debra Buckley. Adored grandmother of Ariel and Ross Buckley, who gave Renee so much joy, pride and pleasure d
 AUSTIN-Lyn. The Hale Matthews Foundation mourns with profound saddness the loss of this extraordinary person of the theatre, whose work we were proud to support over many years. Lyn was very special-a loyal and witty friend, an intuitive and brilliant producer, and, above all, a believer in
 KARGER-Ann Price. Of Hartsdale, NY on Halloween, her favorite holiday. Loving daughter of John and the late Ellie, and stepmother Mimi. Sister of Tom and Mary Jane, beloved aunt of Mike and Dave. Friend of Irma Cusack and Mae Dawson. Funeral services private. In lieu of flowers memorial con
 REICHMAN-Adele Ronson Nahm, actress. Died October 31, 2000 in New York City. Her career began in the 1920s in radio and on the stage and continued until her death. Predeceased by her husbands, Horace H. Nahm and Theodore Reichman, DDS. Mother of Dorothy Nahm Friedberg, M.D. and Nancy Nahm S
 WEBER-Tamar. July 13, 1910-October 30, 2000. We celebrate the life of a remarkable woman. Mother of Jessica and Mark. Mother-in-law of Alan Peckolick and Karen. Grandmother of Jordana and Valerie. Widow of Wally Weber. Graduate of Wellesley/'31. Tam traveled the world in her later years wit
 ADELMAN-Renee. Of Lawrence, N.Y. and Boca Raton, FL. Passed away tragically and suddenly on Monday, October 30, 2000. Devoted wife of Seymour, beloved mother of Marcia A. Delman and Debra Buckley. Adored grandmother of Ariel and Ross Buckley, who gave Renee so much joy, pride and pleasure d
 AUSTIN-Lyn. The Board, staff and artists of Music-Theatre Group are deeply saddened by the sudden death on October 29th of its innovative leader and fearless founder. Her 30 years of productions and creative use of artists are unique in the American theater. A funeral service will be held a
 BIGGANE-Mollie S., age 20, on November 1, 2000, All Saints Day, at home with her family, after a valiant 6 month battle with Melanoma. Beloved daughter of Jack and Maggie. Loving sister of Julie, John and Cara. Cherished granddaughter of Jack and Loretta Biggane and the late Phil and Peggy 
 HALL-Mae. The board, staff, clients and many friends of Seniors Helping Seniors deeply mourn the passing of our President and Guiding Light, Mae Hall. Mrs. Hall, one of our founders, dedicated her retirement years to making the lives of older people easier and more comfortable. A strong wom
 LEEDS-Evelyne Hartfield. on Nov. 1, 2000 at her home. Survived by a daughter and son-in-law, Lydia Hartfield-Leeds Hoban and Patrick N. Hoban of Ridgefield, CT. Services will be private. Memorials in her memory may be made to the Robert L. Fine Cancer Research Laboratory Foundation at Colum
 PETERSON-Marie. 80, died October 30, 2000, of Bronx, NY. She is still with us in our hearts. She is survived her daughters Linda Vazquez, Marilyn Friedland and her sons Richard and John Peterson.       
 REICHMAN-Adele Ronson Nahm, actress. Died October 31, 2000 in New York City. Her career began in the 1920s in radio and on the stage and continued until her death. Predeceased by her husbands, Horace H. Nahm and Theodore Reichman, DDS. Mother of Dorothy Nahm Friedberg, M.D. and Nancy Nahm S
 STARK-Jane E. Died November 1, 2000 after a long illness. Beloved wife of Walter, devoted mother of Jodi Budnick, Kirk Budnick and Lisa Stark, loving grandmother to Mallory, Nicole and Gregory. Daughter of Betty L. Goldberg of Lakewood, NJ. Sister to Nancy Isaacs and Edwin Isaacs of Toms Ri
 STONE-Therese, (nee Blum). In her 97th year. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Frederick E. Stone. Loving mother of Barbara Coppe and Louise Spring, (Lionel). Adoring grandmother of Michael Spring and Tony Spring, (Grace), and great - grandmother of Tyler Spring and Nathan Spring. Sister of the 
 GERSTEIN-Sydelle. Died on November 3, 2000 in her 94th year at her home in Hewlett, NY. She was the widow of Irving C. Gerstein, who died in 1969 and is survived by her son, David M. Gerstein, her daughter, Barbara Shore, her grandchildren, Cynthia Sila, Steven Shore, Lisa Gerstein and Clif
 HAUPTMAN - Isabel ''Trotie'' (Abelson). New York resident for over 70 years died in her sleep November 3, 2000 at the age of 101. As a graduate of Wellesley College Isabel's loyalty to the school was number 1 on her list. She leaves two daughters, Joannee Marks of New York City and Kit Kupe
 SAUNDERS-Anne, age 94, on November 2nd, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Loving mother of Stephanie and the late Frederic Roy. She will be missed by her nieces, nephews, great-nieces and great-nephews. Graveside service on Sunday, 11 AM, at Riverside Cemetery, Lodi, New Jersey.       
 WOLF-Mary Hunter, on November 3, 2000 in Hamden, CT. Survivors include step-children David and Bill, and Louise Chandler, six grandchildren, one great-grandson, and former husband, Herman Wolf. Born Bakersfield, CA., December 4, 1904, Mary's career in the theater and education spanned almos
 Anna Berenson Mayer, a social work policy planner and retired professor of social policy at Rutgers University, died on Wednesday at a New Brunswick, N.J., hospital. She was 91 and lived in East Brunswick, N.J. Dr. Mayer, who received a doctorate in social work from Columbia Univers
 CADY-Nancy Farr. Native New Yorker, resident of Orlando, FL. Passed on October 8, 2000. She will be sorely missed by her children, Gordon Marsh, Lise Pilande, Adrienne Naessil, Marion Skinner; her siblings, F. Shelton Farr, Thomas A. Farr, Diana Farr Louis and Priscilla Farr McCord and othe
 FEIDELSEIT-Lilli (nee Bernstein). Age 93 of Brooklyn, passed away on November 2nd. Daughter of Sarah Ehrenreich (1875-1957) and Harris J. Bernstein (1871-1920). Sister of Michael (1899-1981), Murray (1903-31), and Celia (1909-17). Loving wife of her childhood sweetheart, Harry (d. 1979), pr
 FERBER-Zelda. A loving mother to all whom she touched, died on Wednesday at the age of 77, leaving a rich legacy of love and family connection. As a teacher and counselor, Zelda was a trailblazer, a woman with exceptional social skills and a burning desire to make families work-both hers an
 FRANK-Anna M. On November 3, 2000, of Manhattan in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Jerome H. Frank; loving mother of Marjorie and Frank Balaban and H. Stephen Frank. Adoring grandmother of James Schecter, Nancy Starkey, Chrissie Bennett and Jane Frank Pascal, Stacey Frank Kanihan, a
 GERSTEIN-Sydelle. Died on November 3, 2000 in her 94th year at her home in Hewlett, NY. She was the widow of Irving C. Gerstein, who died in 1969 and is survived by her son, David M. Gerstein, her daughter, Barbara Shore, her grandchildren, Cynthia Sila, Steven Shore, Lisa Gerstein and Clif
 HAUPTMAN - Isabel ''Trotie'' (Abelson). New York resident for over 70 years died in her sleep November 3, 2000 at the age of 101. As a graduate of Wellesley College Isabel's loyalty to the school was number 1 on her list. She leaves two daughters, Joannee Marks of New York City and Kit Kupe
 MITCHELL-Ruth. November 3, 2000. Beloved sister of Juliette Fleischer. Loving aunt of David and Jody Fleischer and Jessica Mitchell. Dear companion of Florence Klotz. Funeral private. In lieu of flowers contributions in her memory may be made to The Actors Fund. MITCHELL-Ruth. Our m
 OLSON-Mrs. James C. The board of directors of Youth Foundation, Inc. deeply regrets the death of Jean Olson, board member and thoughful friend. She was a dedicated volunteer. The Foundation wishes to extend condolences to her family. A. David Russell, President Mrs. Donald M. Liddell, Vice 
 PIERDON-Ruth M. Of Bronx, NY, passed away Saturday, October 28, 2000. Ruth was born August 8, 1904. She leaves no family, but had a lifetime full of friends. Memorial services will be held on Saturday, November 11, 2 P.M. at St. James Church, Bronx, NY.       
 POLOW-Shirley Taxin. On November 3. Beloved wife of Herb Polow and the late Harry Taxin. Loving and cherished mother of David, Ira and Paul, mother-in-law of Nancy, Janet and Christine. Adoring grandmother of Amy, Michael, Melissa, Sondra, Liz, Zachary, Julieanne, Jeffrey and Adam. Dear ste
 REICHMAN-Adele Ronson Nahm, actress. Died October 31, 2000 in New York City. Her career began in the 1920s in radio and on the stage and continued until her death. Predeceased by her husbands, Horace H. Nahm and Theodore Reichman, DDS. Mother of Dorothy Nahm Friedberg, M.D. and Nancy Nahm S
 STONE-Therese, (nee Blum). In her 97th year. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Frederick E. Stone. Loving mother of Barbara Coppe and Louise Spring, (Lionel). Adoring grandmother of Michael Spring and Tony Spring, (Grace), and great - grandmother of Tyler Spring and Nathan Spring. Sister of the 
 STUX-Linda (born Bayless) died peacefully October 27, 2000 at age 56. Wife of Stefan and 7 year old Alva, sister of Shirley Flinchum of Cincinnati, Ohio. Educator and cofounder of Stux Gallery of Boston and New York. Universally loved and admired for her extraordinary compassion, gentleness
 Lucia Evangelista, a former soprano, a notable figure in New Jersey cultural circles and the wife of the renowned American bass Jerome Hines, died on Oct. 26 in North Plainfield, N.J. She was 83 and had been suffering from Lou Gehrig's disease. Ms. Evangelista was born in Genoa, Ita
 FRANK-Anna M. On November 3, 2000, of Manhattan in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Jerome H. Frank; loving mother of Marjorie Frank Balaban and H. Stephen Frank. Son-in-law of Victor Balaban. Adoring grandmother of James Schecter, Nancy Starkey, Chrissie Bennett and Jane Frank Pasca
 HAYDEN-Bernice. ''Nicie'' died Thursday, November 2, 2000, at Cabrini Hospital after a 30 year struggle with cancer. After good years it finally got her. She is survived by her loving sisters, Frances and Terry and so many friends.       
 LINDHEIM-Esther G. On November 3, 2000. Retired principal of PS 6 in the Bronx. Beloved wife of the late Burton, mother of Julie and Charles Cantor, devoted grandmother of Deborah C. and Lowell Kirschner and Margalit Cantor. Contributions in her memory may be made to World Jewish Congress o
 MILLER-Margaret Elizabeth. On November 3, 2000. Beloved daughter of Faye Newsone and Larry Miller. Loving sister of Kathryn Nicole and Eric Samuelson. Niece of Gay and Lowell Justice. Member of Hyde School Community. Daughter of Modern Psychoanalytic Community. Mass of Christian Burial Mond
 Amalia Hernandez, the founder of the internationally successful Ballet Folklorico de Mexico, died on Saturday in Mexico City. She was 83. Ms. Hernandez, a specialist in Mexican folk dance, created programs that resembled fiestas, notable for eye-catching choreography and colorful co
 Baroness Ryder of Warsaw, whose deep sense of obligation to others and passion for charity work led her to build an international network of homes and treatment centers for the sick and disabled, died on Thursday at West Suffolk Hospital in Bury St. Edmunds, England. She was 77. A s
 BENSON-Bernice (Bunny). On November 4, 2000. Beloved mother, sister and aunt. Donations may be made to the Jacob Perlow Hospice in her memory. Graveside services were held Monday, November 6th at Knollwood Park Cemetery.       
 BERRYMAN-Doris L. 74. Educator and leader in the field of recreation and leisure services. Died at her home in NYC on November 3, 2000, of pancreatic cancer. As a Professor at New York University from 1973 to 1997 and as a Professor Emertius until her death, she taught hundreds of students,
 CAULKINS-Dixie. The Women's Board of The Boys' Club of New York mourns the death of our colleague and friend Mrs. Dixie Platt Caulkins of Hobe Sound. A former president and one of the founders of The Women's Board, Mrs. Caulkins a woman of vision and generosity, worked tirelessly to help im
 EMERSON-Mary E. (Bette) of McKinney, Texas passed away on November 5, 2000 in McKinnney. She was born February 2, 1910 in Binghamton, New York, to W. and Mamie (Neal) Ives. She married Tom Emerson. She was an opera singer for the New York Metropolitan Opera and a member of the St. Peters Ep
 FABIAN-Dorothy R., Ed.D., 77, November 3. Gerontologist, author, & consultant. She is survived by her sister Ruth Finkel, two sons Timothy Fabian and Jonathan Fabian, & three grandchildren. Contributions Hospital for Joint Diseases in lieu of flowers.       
 LaBARBERA-Priscilla. We deeply mourn the loss of Priscilla LaBarbera, Professor of Marketing and Teaching Excellence Professor at New York University Stern School of Business who passed away Novemeber 3, 2000 following a long and valiant struggle with cancer. Born and raised in Queens, N.Y.
 SOMKIN-Ida Marder. On November 5, 2000, nine days shy of her 94th birthday. Resident of East Hampton and formerly of New York City. An artist, wife and mother with the rare gift of causing people to fall in love with her on first meeting. She is survived by her husband, Eugene, her twin son
 DeMONTE-Ammeda. On November 7, 2000 peacefully in her sleep after a valiant effort. Former Vice Chairperson Community Board #       
 DENNETT - Charlotte Woodall. Died Tuesday morning in Haverford, Pennsylvania. Born on November 20, 1913 in Middletown, Delaware to James E. Woodall and Justine Peverly Woodall, Mrs. Dennett graduated from St. Mary's Hall in Burlington, NJ, Wilson College in Chambersburg, PA and Drexel Schoo
 DZUBAY-Elizabeth H. Age 61. Died November 6, 2000 of lung cancer. She is survived by her son Richard, daughter Liz, and brother Frank Wahl.       
 LITSIOS-Thekla. 76. Passed away on Monday, November 6, 2000 in Bridgeport Hospital after a brief illness. She is survived by her beloved husband, John Litsios and their three children, Gregory and his wife Maeve, Theodora and Andrew and her two grandchildren, Zoe and Evan. Friends may call 
 WEINER-Phyllis (nee Lifton). On November 3, 2000, while traveling in China with her devoted husband of 39 years, Howard. She will be remembered and missed by her children, Jeffrey, Cynthia, Michael and Jeanne Gerstley Weiner, for her spirit, humor, and warmth. She is the cherished sister of
 Rita A. Edelman, a philanthropist who was prominent in national charitable organizations, died on Friday in a hospital in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 90 and lived in Beverly Hills. Mrs. Edelman was an early supporter of the United Cerebral Palsy Associations and became the honorar
 Ruth Mitchell, one of Broadway's best-known backstage bosses who parlayed her professional prowess and personal flair into a successful producing career, died on Friday in Manhattan. She was 81. Ms. Mitchell hailed from the tough streets of Newark, and it showed in her decision to w
 CARLOUGH-Grace. 79 of Germantown, TN died November 7. Graveside services will be 11:00 am Monday at Holy Rood Cemetery in Westbury, NY. She leaves two daughters Joan C. Matthews of Germantown and Barbara A. Lindquist of Sandy Hook, CT and one son Stephen P. Carlough Jr. of Fort Myers, FL.  
 CAULKINS-Dixie Thompson, who played a prominent role in women's volunteerism in New York for three decades, died November 4 at her home on Jupiter Island, Florida. She was 84, and the cause was complications from ovarian cancer. Born in Honolulu, of a leading kaamaina family, she attended P
 LEVY - Ayelet Haschachar. EMUNAH of America and Religious Zionists of America mourn the tragic murder of Ayelet Haschachar Levy, graduate of the EMUNAH College in Jerusalem. We mourn the loss of lives. Innocent victims of Palestinian barbarism. This time, it was family! Ayelet Haschachar Le
 SHERMAN-Sheila Neibart. On November 8, 2000, at the age of 55, peacefully in her sleep after a valiant effort. Beloved daughter of the late Evelyn and Walter Neibart. Survived by her two loving daughters, Elizabeth Sherwood and Kimberly Sherman; brother, Lee Neibart; son-in-law, John Sherwo
 WEINER-Phyllis (nee Lifton). On November 3, 2000, while traveling in China with her devoted husband of 39 years, Howard. She will be remembered and missed by her children, Jeffrey, Cynthia, Michael and Jeanne Gerstley Weiner, for her spirit, humor, and warmth. She is the cherished sister of
 Rosalind Baker Wilson, an editor and writer who published a memoir of her father, Edmund Wilson, one of America's foremost men of letters, died on Oct. 30 in Syracuse. She was 79 and lived in Talcottville, N.Y. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said Tim Page, a friend. Ms
 DEUTSCH-Ilse of Nutley, NJ, wife of Rudolph A. Funeral service Sunday 8 p.m. at S.W. Brown & Son Funeral Home, 267 Centre St. Nutley. Visiting Sunday 2-4 and 7-9 p.m. She was the Bookkeeper for the Federal Law Enforcement Office Assn. and Proof Reader for Eighteen Eleven, retired 1 yr ago. 
 WARSHAVSKY-Joyce. Beloved wife of Murray for 55 years. Devoted mother of Letty and Michael Tanchum and Calvin and Andrea Roberts. Dear sister of Arline Reiss. Adoring grandmother of Meredith, David, Lindsay, Robert and Joanna. Services Sunday, 9:30 AM, ''Plaza Memorial Chapel'', 91st St. an
 WEINER-Phyllis (nee Lifton). On November 3, 2000, while traveling in China with her devoted husband of 39 years, Howard. She will be remembered and missed by her children, Jeffrey, Cynthia, Michael and Jeanne Gerstley Weiner, for her spirit, humor, and warmth. She is the cherished sister of
 CANTOR-Adeline P. age 86, of Riverdale, NY, and Delray Beach, FL. Survived by her beloved husband Seymour of sixty years, her son Mark, adored grandchildren Fara, Carrie and Justin Cantor. Services are today, 11:30am, graveside at Riverside Cemetery, Rochelle Park, NJ.       
 COURTNEY-Mary C. On November 10, 2000. Beloved mother of Jim, Peggy, Theresa, and Bill, loved mother-in-law of Jane. Cherished grandmother, and stand-in mother on dear Dorothy's untimely death of Dermott, Clare, Susan, and Mary; treasured grandmother of Jennifer, Stacey and Stephanie. Repos
 FABIAN-Dr. Dorothy. The NYUHospital for Joint Diseases Department of Orthopaedic Surgery mourn the passing of Dr. Dorothy Fabian, dear wife of Dr. Tibor Fabian, who served as our distinguished Honorary President and Chairman of the Board. Dr. Dorothy Fabian's commitment to the hospital thro
 FIVE-Lena Gurin. On November 9th at her home in Great Neck, NY. Educator and sculptress. Beloved wife of the late Helge and devoted loving mother of Cora Lee Five and Ellen F. Wilson. Donations may be made to the Alzheimers Foundation.       
 GOLDBERG-Shirley Miller. Of Fort Lee, NJ, formerly of Jericho and Brooklyn, NY, at home, surrounded by family, at peace, on November 10, 2000. For 54 years, much beloved wife of Isadore Elliott. Loving and deeply devoted to her children Sandra, Jeffrey (deceased), Neil and Howard, her son-i
 HANAUER-Ethel R. At home in Ossining, NY. Beloved mother of William (Alan Stahl) and Richard (Marcia Roseman). Grandmother of David (Diana Pons), Craig and Andrew. Wife of the late Milton L. Hanauer. Retired guidance counselor, biology teacher at Julia Richman H.S. Services at Mt. Lebanon C
 KOMAREK-Viola W., Ph.D. 92, formerly of NYC, died November 10. She was a retired economics professor at New York University.       
 RICHMAN-Nancy D., 57. Died November 5, 2000. Resided in New York City prior to moving to Lauderhill, FL, in September, 1997. Survived by life companion, Nita Novell, of Lauderhill, FL, immediate family, Lori & Lee Richman, of Tamarac, Florida, Elizabeth, Vikram, Anjali, and Evan Prasad of A
 STONE-Esther. Beloved and wise friend, graced with extraordinary dignity, wit and kindness. Brilliant and devoted partner to her late husband, journalist I.F. Stone. We will always miss your luminous countenance and understanding spirit. Tova, Walter, Daniel, David and Rebecca Reich       
 Eleanor Naumburg Sanger, the first program director of WQXR, the classical music station that was later purchased by The New York Times Company, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 100. Mrs. Sanger and her husband, Elliott M. Sanger, who helped found the station, asse
 Mary Hunter Wolf, one of the first female directors on Broadway, died Nov. 3 in Hamden, Conn. She was 95. Born in Bakersfield, Calif., and orphaned as a teenager, Ms. Hunter (who took the name Wolf after marrying Herman Wolf in 1955) discovered her love of the theater while a studen
 COURTNEY-Mary C. On November 10, 2000. Beloved mother of Jim, Peggy, Theresa, and Bill, loved mother-in-law of Jane. Cherished grandmother, and stand-in mother on dear Dorothy's untimely death of Dermott, Clare, Susan, and Mary; treasured grandmother of Jennifer, Stacey and Stephanie. Repos
 KOGEL-Dora Lowenbraun. 93, on November 11, 2000, after a long illness at Parker Jewish Geriatric Institute. Mrs. Kogel was married to the late Dr. Abraham Lowenbraun, residing in the Bronx and Mt. Vernon, and later to the late Dr. Marcus Kogel, founding dean of Albert Einstein College of Me
 LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved wife of Stephen M. Levene and widow of the late Harold J. Kalikow. Loving mother of Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein. Cherished grandmother of Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. Dear mother-in-law of Mary Kalikow and John Wallerste
 PORTER-Mary Miller. On November 11, 2000. In her 94th year, a Holocaust survivor. Dear aunt of Dr. Albert and Elaine Miller, Rita and Gerard Marini and Michael and Janet Miller. Cherished greataunt. Graveside services Sunday, November 12, Woodbridge, NJ.       
 STAHL-Adele. Beloved wife of the late Sam. Devoted mother of Jack, Sheila Oliver and Harriet Wulfstat. Dear sister of Sabina Sultan. She is also survived by eight adoring grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren. She will always be in our hearts. Services will be held 1 PM today at the Dix 
 TILENIUS-Clarinne M. On November 7, 2000, in Sacramento, CA. Longtime resident of Huntington, NY. Wife of late William O. Tilenius. Survived by her son Eric Tilenius and daughter-in-law Stephanie Schear Tilenius of San Francisco, CA; stepdaughter Irene Bloom and her husband Barry of Hasting
 WATERMAN-Carol J. November 9, 2000. Survived by her daughter and son-in-law, Ingrid-Jennifer and Theodore Wolfley, 57 Liberty St., Brockport, NY 14420; grandchildren, Theodore, Tabitha, Matthew, and Robert; sister and brother-inlaw, Susan and Carl Silverman. Funeral services and interment w
 Mary Sinclair, an actress who was a familiar face to television viewers in the 1950's, died on Nov. 5 in Phoenix. She was 78 and lived in Phoenix. The cause of death was not disclosed. Ms. Sinclair, whom Life magazine called ''a hazel-eyed beauty,'' was born in San Diego and
 ARONSON-Ellen. Loving mother and outstanding Physical Therapist. Ellen Aronson passed away Monday morning November 13. Ellen is and always will be fondly remembered by her daughters, partners, and friends. A funeral service will be held Wednesday, November 16, 11 A.M. at the Beecher Funeral
 FOX-Louise Weiss. Beloved as wife of David, mother of Amy, Michal, Heather, Erica and James. Bubbie of Zachariah, Jonah and Sarah. Sister of Myron, Allen and Helene. A loving, generous, warm, compassionate and brilliant woman who enriched the lives of all who knew her. She will be lovingly 
 GREENE-Miriam S., on November 12, 2000 in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Dr. David Greene. Dear mother of Betty Mazur and the late Stanley Greene. Adored grandmother of Peter, Alexandra, Nicole, Danielle and David. Great-grandmother of Ross and Elise. Services Tuesday, November 14,
 HELFENBEIN-Catherine A. On November 10, 2000. A musician and voice teacher at the Juilliard School of Music and Vassar College. Beloved wife of the late Ladisles. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 Street, on Wednesday at 4 PM. In lieu of flowers contributions in h
 KING-Elizabeth (Betty). Died November 9, 2000 in Clarksville, Tn. She was a former resident of New York, and Executive Secretary to the New York Yankees. She also worked for the New York Mets and was included in the Who's Who in Professional Baseball. She is survived by one nephew, Russell 
 KOGEL-Dora. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the loss of the widow of our Founding Dean, Dr. Marcus Kogel, and we extend heartfelt condolences to her daughter, Alice Funk, and the entire family. Dominick P. Purpura, M.D. The Marilyn and Stanley M. Katz Dean  
 LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved wife of Stephen M. Levene and widow of the late Harold J. Kalikow. Loving mother of Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein. Cherished grandmother of Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. Dear mother-in-law of Mary Kalikow and John Wallerste
 MARTIN-Marian F. On November 12, 2000. Loving wife of the late Merrill Martin, mother, grandmother and friend. Humanitarian, civil rights activist, caregiver, and gardener. She is survived by her daughters, Elizabeth and Susan, her son-in-law, Alan, her grand daughter, Lily, brother Melvyn,
 McLAUGHLIN-Rita C. On November 12, in New York City at the age of 87. Daughter of the late Thomas P. and Mary G. of Jersey City. Rita worked in the Personnel Dept of Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. for 43 years and retired in March, 1976. She was a member of the Immaculate Conception Church
 MOOMJY-Alice S. Of Westfield, N.J. Wife of Albert. Mother of Alexander and Robert. Sister of John Condayan. Died November 12, 2000. Alice is also survived by her daughter-in-law Maureen and three grandchildren. Friends may call at the Higgins & Bonner Echo Wake Funeral Home, 582 Springfield
 RABIN-Leah. The officers and staff of UJA-Federation of New York profoundly mourn the passing of Leah Rabin, widow of former Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. Like her husband, Leah was a tireless warrior for peace and security not just for Israel's people but for Jews worldwide. She ca
 THORON-Pattie Porter. Of Savage Farm Drive, Ithaca, NY. Died at age 88, on Saturday, October 28, 2000, at her home after a long illness. Survived by her husband, Gray Thoron; her children: Pattie H. Petrou of Sherborn, MA, John P. Holmes, Jr., of Shelter Island, NY, Russell P. Holmes of Bos
 VALLA-Florence. Died November 10, at Roosevelt Hospital. Lifelongfriend of the late Pearl Rubenstein. Graduate of Cooper Union. Advertising agency art director. Co-owner with her friend Ruth Stark of Stark-Valla Emporium in Greenwich Village. Manager of the Mt. Sinai Hospital Gift Shop. Ser
 WEIDMAN-Zora. Lilith Magazine mourns the death of Zora Weidman in Winnipeg on November 10th. She is survived by her children, Dr. Martin Weidman and our editor-in-chief, Susan Weidman Schneider, and their families. At the request of the family, donations in Zora Weidman's memory may be made
 HARRIS-Jeanette. The Grand Street Boys Association and The Grand Street Boys Foundation announced with extreme sorrow the passing of our beloved Executive Secretary, Jeanette Harris. She served our organizations and our charitable endeavors for fifty years. Her charm and wonderful spirit wi
 KONAN-Nadege. Died November 6, 2000 at age 35. She is survived by her children Malik and Sarah. Nadege was the charming voice handling reservations at Jean Georges. A Memorial service on Thurs, November 16, 3-7 PM at John H. Joyce Inc., Funeral Home, 2332 Adam Clayton Powell, Jr. (corner 13
 LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved wife of Stephen M. Levene and widow of the late Harold J. Kalikow. Loving mother of Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein. Cherished grandmother of Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. Dear mother-in-law of Mary Kalikow and John Wallerste
 MARX-Vita Ortman Weiss. She died at home on October 27, after a long illness. Devoted wife of the late Ralph Marx. She is survived by her daughter Ellen Ash, her stepdaughters Alice Weafer, and Nancy Bocian & six grandchildren. She devoted her life to insuring affordable housing for low and
 OGILVY-Anne Cabot, 69, died November 13, 2000 after a brief illness. Mrs. Ogilvy's life combined family, professional and international aspects in a nearly classic 20th century style. Mrs. Ogilvy played an active role in Middle Eastern archaeological and academic studies, serving as an offi
 PONARAS-Anna Crabb. Died November 11, 2000, at the age of 91 in Washington, D.C. She was born in Ithaca, NY, and grew up in Athens, GA. Excelling in academics, swimming and horseback riding. She earned BS and MS degrees from the University of Georgia and in 1930 started her career of teachi
 ROTHMAN-Tillie. Died November 11, 2000 at home in her 100th year. Loving wife of the late Leo. Devoted mother of son Seymour and daughter Freda Hirsch. Loving grandmother of Louise, Erik, Shoshana and Lee Hirsch. Great grandmother to Nava, Elisheva and Ezra. Tillie was a beacon of strength 
 SEEGERS-Edith A. Age 72, of Pleasantville, New York passed away November 12 while at home in Florida. Edith worked as a bookkeeper for the Legend Group for thirty years. She is survived by her beloved companion, Tony Ciulla, sons, Richard, Paul and David, and many cherished grandchildren, n
 WOLFF-Susan Beres, November 14 at home. Devoted daughter of Elaine Beres and the late Herman Beres. Beloved wife of the late Michael Wolff. Dedicated mother of Russell Wolff and Joanna Wolff, mother-in-law of Patty Wolff and Scott Schneiferman. Loving companion of Stephen Feinberg. Grandmot
 ABRAHAM-Gerda. In her 90th year on Nov. 14th, 2000. Deeply treasured mother to Ruth Brause and Henry Abraham and sister of Henry Stanhope. Devoted wife of the late Siegfried Abraham. Adoring grandmother of Michelle, Debbie, David and Raphael. Crazy about her six great grandchildren Allison,
 CAULKINS-Dixie T. The Board of Trustees, Medical Board and Administration of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center acknowledge with sadness the passing of our longtime friend and beloved benefactor, Dixie Thompson Caulkins, who succeeded her late husband, H. Whitfield Carhart, as a Trustee f
 GILE-June Tyner, 77, of North Chatham, MA., and formerly of Rye, NY. Died on November 5 at home after a long illness. Mrs. Gile was the wife of the late Clement (Tim) D. Gile who died in 1978. Mrs. Gile is survived by her sister Nancy Gagarin of Greenwich, CT, four daughters Toni Sennott of
 HOLLANDER-Mildred. On November 14, 2000. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Harold Hollander. Cherished friend of Hans & Judi Leerink. Devoted companion of Kathleen Rhody, Marcia Robinson, Gludy Tai, Pauline Thomas & Miriam Lee. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Ser
 LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved wife of Stephen M. Levene and widow of the late Harold J. Kalikow. Loving mother of Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein. Cherished grandmother of Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. Dear mother-in-law of Mary Kalikow and John Wallerste
 LIPPERT-Robert, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the Milton and Bernice Stern Department of Pediatrics in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Robert Lippert, M.D., beloved father of our dear friend and longtime member of the Pedi
 RABIN-Leah. The Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations expresses condolences on the passing of Leah Rabin, who worked closely with her husband, former Prime Minister Yitzchak Rabin, on behalf of the Jewish people and the State of Israel. We pray that the family will
 WILLIAMS - Marilyn Thornton. Ph.D. 68, of NYC, on November 13, 2000. Dearly beloved mother of Jocelyn & Karen. She is survived by her sister Joan Mazzaia, brother-in-law Don, nephew Chris, nieces Julie and Sherry and many, many wonderful friends. Retired professor of American history at Pac
 WOLFF-Susan. To Russell, Patty, Joanna, Scott, Lily and Elaine. Your strength is our strength, your loss is ours. Susan, a woman of care, concern, laughter and love, we will miss you so much. Find the old man and enjoy all the good times. Love, Barbara, Philip and all the children W
 PARADNY-Robert, MD. Dear Bob/Dad, you live on in all of us and in your sweet, sweet granddaughter, Renee Dana, named for you on February 24th. Like you, she is already a shining light in all of our lives. We love you and miss you always. Forever, Adelle, Robin, Andrea, Stew, and Renee      
 GREENBLATT-Arnold I. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of NY mourn the passing of Arnold Greenblatt, dear friend and former husband of Lucille Greenblatt, a generous long-time donor, and beloved father of Judith, our devoted staff professional. To Lucille; Judith
 LEVENE-Juliet Kalikow. Beloved wife of Stephen M. Levene and widow of the late Harold J. Kalikow. Loving mother of Peter Kalikow and Penny Wallerstein. Cherished grandmother of Nicholas and Kathryn Kalikow, Jill and Jennifer Wallerstein. Dear mother-in-law of Mary Kalikow and John Wallerste
 TAMARIN-Lillian, M.D. Wife of the late Alfred Tamarin and the late Carlton Barlow. Mother of Susan Eluard (Alain). Grandmother of Nathalie Hurwitz (Jonathan) and Lauren Eluard. A graduate of NYU Medical School, she was a member of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis and a practicing Anal
 WIJESINGHE-Constance Rachel on November 11, 2000 in her 96th year. Beloved wife of the late Walter Edward Peiris Wijesinghe. Dear mother of Chitra, Sarath and Nandi and mother-in-law of Eli, Claudia and Neelakshi. Adored grandmother of Shamil, Aruni, Lakmini, Ashini and Manik. Services Sund
 WOLFF-Susan. On behalf of our entire organization we wish to express our heartfelt condolences to the family of Susan Wolff. Both Susan and her late husband Michael were treasured members of Newmark's extended family and will be sorely missed by us all. Our sincerest condolences go out to h
 BONESTEEL-Louise. Born March 22, 1918 in Watervliet, N.Y. Died of cancer November 11, 2000 at her home in Washington, D.C. Faithful helper and friend of the late Esther L. Moscow for fifty years. Miss Bonesteel is mourned by all the members of the Heimann and Holm families. Contributions in
 GINTEL-Sylvia R. Cherished wife of the late Sidney. Loving mother of Carol and Barry. Dear sister of the late Adele Arnstein and sisterin-law of Samuel Arnstein. Adored by her cousins, nieces and nephews. Devoted friend of many. A true lady who will be missed forever. Services ''BoulevardRi
 HOWARD-Betty Gatoff. Of Rye, NY, on November 16, 2000, in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late Robert L. Howard. Cherished mother of Doris (Robert) Gilbert and Dr. Elliott (Ulla). Adored grandmother of Paige, Jon, Carl, James and Edward. Dearest Gammy of Jason, Randy, Haley, Ari, Marley 
 SIEGEL-Norma. Graveside services will be held 11AM Sunday, November 19, 2000 at The Crestlawn Memorial Park. Mrs. Siegel was preceded in death by her husband Dr. Irving Siegel. Survivors include sons, Stefan and Dr. Robert Siegel. For further information contact Greenlawn Jewish Funeral Dir
 STEIN-Anne Youle. Philanthropist and retired lumber executive, widow of the late Everett Stein, died on Friday, November 17, 2000, at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, New York, at age 101. Mrs. Stein's philanthropies were directed primarily to medical research. At the Columbia Presbyte
 STEINBERG-Gerald. The members and staff of the Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Fl. wish to express their sincere condolences to our fellow member, Paula Steinberg, and family, on the passing of her beloved husband, Gerald. The Board of Governors Kenneth Mahler, President       
 TAMARIN-Lillian, M.D. Wife of the late Alfred Tamarin and the late Carlton Barlow. Mother of Susan Eluard (Alain). Grandmother of Nathalie Hurwitz (Jonathan) and Lauren Eluard. A graduate of NYU Medical School, she was a member of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis and a practicing Anal
 Eugenia Rawls, a theater actress who portrayed Tallulah Bankhead and others in one-woman shows, died on Nov. 8 in Denver. She was 87. A native of Macon, Ga., Miss Rawls first took the stage at age 4 in a local production of ''Madame Butterfly,'' encouraged by her grandmother and two
 BALBUS-Selma Davis. On November 13, 2000 at the age of 92. Beloved wife of the late Robert Balbus, devoted mother of Ann and Isaac, loving grandmother of Shayla. Everyone lucky enough to know her will long remember the warmth of her heart and the strength of her spirit.       
 BARFIELD-Linda H. Adored wife of Dick. Daughter of Rose Katz, sister of Nina Goldsmith. Courageous beyond belief. A source of love & strength for everyone she knew. Burial private. Memorial Service to be held at an undetermined date. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Creative Cent
 BAUDOIN-Suzanne. November 17, 2000. Loving and caring mother of Patsy, Jean-Yves, Marina and Bettina. Grandmother of Christina, Patrick, Alexander, Daniel and Paul. Mother-in-law of Madge, Ellen, Harry and Henri. She shall ever be remembered by family and friends for her loving warmth and a
 DENERSTEIN-Rita, 82, of Valley Cottage, November 14, 2000 after a long illness. Daughter of the late Samuel Asbel and Minnie Zevin. She is survived by her husband, Hyman; their son, Dan; their two grandsons, Matthew and Evan; her sister, Sarah Jacobson and her brother, Bernard Asbell. Her i
 DONALD-Larry. The entire ConHealth Partners family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Larry Donald, beloved brother of our dear friend and colleague, Linda Donald, Executive Director of Renal Research Institute. To Linda, her sister-in-law Nancy, nephew David and all of Larry's loved 
 GINTEL-Sylvia R. Cherished wife of the late Sidney. Loving mother of Carol and Barry. Dear sister of the late Adele Arnstein and sisterin-law of Samuel Arnstein. Adored by her cousins, nieces and nephews. Devoted friend of many. A true lady who will be missed forever. Services ''BoulevardRi
 GREEN-Muriel Busch. of Stamford, CT, formerly of Jericho, NY, died of pneumonia November 14, 2000 at the age of seventy-seven. Mrs. Green leaves a loving family: two sons and their wives, Peter and Carin, of Port Chester, NY and Roger and Enid, of Newtown, PA, a brother and sister-in-law, B
 KAPLAN-Dorothy Pearl nee Goldblatt. 86. Formerly of Florida, recently of Lakewood, New Jersey, died on November 14. She worked for the New York State Department of Labor for over 35 years, retiring in 1970. Her husband, Morris Henry Kaplan, died in 1989. He was associated with the New York 
 LEVENBACK-Hedi. The Board of Directors of the NY 0-3 Network expresses deep sorrow at the passing of our colleague and friend. Our heartfelt condolences to her family.       
 STEIN-Anne Youle. Columbia University Health Sciences has lost a great friend. Anne Youle Stein, age 101, died at New YorkPresbyterian Hospital on November 17, 2000. Mrs. Stein, a philanthropist had an avid interest in helping to advance health care which perpetuated a close relationship wi
 STEIN-Muriel. 76, of Florida died November 14, 2000. Formerly on the board of Peninsula General Hospital and was also Chair Lady of the Womens Auxiliary for Peninsula General. She moved to Florida where she became active in starting the Keys Jewish Center and was a board member. She was a g
 SUSSMAN-Evelyn. We sadly note the passing of an extraordinary woman and Founding Member of National Tay-Sachs & Allied Diseases Association. With condolences to her family. The Board of NTSAD NY Area 1202 Lexington Ave., #       
 TAMARIN-Lillian, M.D. Wife of the late Alfred Tamarin and the late Carlton Barlow. Mother of Susan Eluard (Alain). Grandmother of Nathalie Hurwitz (Jonathan) and Lauren Eluard. A graduate of NYU Medical School, she was a member of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis and a practicing Anal
 BAUDOIN-Suzanne (nee Devilliez). November 17, 2000. Beloved widow of Charles. Cherished mother, mother-in-law and grandmother of Patsy and Madge; Jean-Yves, Ellen, Alexander and Daniel; Marina, Harry, Christina and Patrick; Bettina, Henri and Paul. She will be remembered by all for her kind
 GOLDEN-Blanche Sembroff. On Friday, November 17. Beloved wife of Henry. Devoted mother of Daniel (Arline), Edward (Barbara) and Ellen (Joel) Dressner. Cherished grandmother of Madeline and David Dressner. Shiva Monday through Wednesday at her home, 3-7 PM.       
 GREENBLATT-Pessie. 97. Devoted wife of the late Julius; beloved mother of David and Bernice Weiss; Lily and Morty Veron, Kathy and Herman Klein and Robert Greenblatt. She leaves behind many loving grandchildren, great-grandchildren and a greatgreat-grandchild. A Holocaust survivor, she came
 SHRON-Rita. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 WERNER-Stella L. Devoted wife of the late Herbert L. Werner, died peacefully on November 18 at her home in Mamaroneck, NY, after a long and full life. Beloved mother of Laurel Bauer, Beryl Elon and Jeff Werner. She is survived by her brother Jack C. Werner, sonsin-law William G. Bauer, Gadi
 ADDISS-Luise Kraus. November 19, 2000 of cardiac arrest at the age of 101. Loving mother of James and Stephen Addiss and Penelope Yungblut. Grandmother of Wendy Dellar, Edward Addiss III, Justus Addiss, Susan Hemingway and Yosa Addiss and three great grandchildren, mother-inlaw of Lee Addis
 BAUDOIN-Suzanne. Thanks to Scandinavia notes with sadness the passing of Suzanne Baudoin, beloved wife of our late board member and vigorous champion of Thanks to Scandinavia's scholarship fund dedicated to the nations of Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden in appreciation of the historic h
 BERNSTEIN-Martha S. Beloved wife of the late Gerson J. Bernstein and daughter of the late Pauline and Samuel Stavisky. Mother of Adele and Mitchell Turoff, Claire and Eugene Kopp, Susan and Frank Schuster, Ann and Tobi Schapiro and Ruth and Phillip Levitz. Grandmother to 29, great grandmoth
 BOTT-Sister Catherine Regina. of Sisters of St. Dominic in Amityville, NY on November 19, 2000. A friend and educator to many over her years of dedicated service to her Order. Loving sister of Margaret and William. Visitation will be held Tuesday 2-5 and 7-10 PM at the R. Stutzmann & Son Fu
 CHIZNER-Judith. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY, mourns her loss and extends deepest sympathy to the bereaved family. Allen Kaplan, Rabbi Alan Hartstein, President CHIZNER-Judy. Dearest niece, cousin and friend. With heartfelt sympathy, all of our family bids you goodbye. You fought a c
 EHRENSTEIN-Adele, On November 19, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Irving, loving mother of Dr. Gerald and Debbie Ehrenstein and Dr. Lila and Dr. Richard Nachtigall. Cherished grandmother of Margaret and Anthony, Lisa and Rob, Ellen and Matthew, Ruth and Larry, David and Judy and Steven and E
 PUERTOLLANO - Marilu M.D. The Department of Psychiatry at the Long Island College Hospital mourns the untimely loss of our colleague Marilu Puertollano M.D. She was an excellent clinician and a teacher to many young physicians. We will miss her. We extend our sympathy to her entire family. 
 ROSENBERG-Miriam S. Of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY. Mitzi died peacefully on the morning of November 17, 2000 after a lifetime of tremendous strength of spirit. Her generosity to family, friends and colleagues is unsurpassed and for all of us, never ending. Greatly devoted wife of over 50 years 
 STERN-Elaine. On November 19, 2000. Loving wife, mother, motherin-law, grandmother, sister and aunt. Survived by her children Kenneth and Judith, daughter-inlaw Sharon, grandchildren Evan, Rachel and Rebecca, sister Ruth and niece Mia. She will be remembered for her integrity, honesty and a
 TRACY-Bernadette. The Board of Directors and members of the New York Croquet Club are deeply saddened by the passing of one of their own, Bernadette Tracy. Her wonderful sense of fun, her loyalty to the sport, her unmatched style and spirit will be sorely missed. The New York Croquet Club  
 Andy Logan, the reporter whose witty, elegant and gently sarcastic voice dissected the goings-on at New York's City Hall for The New Yorker magazine for 25 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80 years old and had been ill with pancreatic cancer. For two decades, 
 Frances Mercer, a model who took up acting and went on to appear in films and on Broadway, radio and television, died on Nov. 12 in Los Angeles. She was 85. Born in New Rochelle, N.Y., on Oct. 21, 1915, Ms. Mercer began her modeling career while still a teenager and was a leading mo
 ADDISS-Luise Kraus. November 19, 2000 of cardiac arrest at the age of 101. Loving mother of James and Stephen Addiss and Penelope Yungblut. Grandmother of Wendy Dellar, Edward Addiss III, Justus Addiss, Susan Hemingway and Yosa Addiss and three great grandchildren, mother-inlaw of Lee Addis
 BERNSTEIN-Martha. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University mourn the passing of Martha Bernstein of Miami Beach after a prolonged illness. She was a generous patron of Bar-Ilan and, in addition to other gifts, dedicated a classroom in one of our buildings in Israel. We extend our sympath
 deMONICO-Louise Webb. On November 19, 2000, age 89, after a short illness. She is survived by her son Ernest Brandt, her daughter-in-law Cree Maxson and sister Mary Bruder. She will be fondly remembered by family and friends for her energy, zest for life and service to others. A Memorial Se
 EHRENSTEIN-Adele, On November 19, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Irving, loving mother of Dr. Gerald and Debbie Ehrenstein and Dr. Lila and Dr. Richard Nachtigall. Cherished grandmother of Margaret and Anthony, Lisa and Rob, Ellen and Matthew, Ruth and Larry, David and Judy and Steven and E
 FALK-Pauline B. On Tuesday, November 21, 2000 at 90 years of age. Loving wife of the late Myron S. Falk, Jr. (Johnny). Mother of Patricia, Michael and Nancy. Grandmother of Christopher, Brooke, Melanie, Amerin, Gregory and Logan. Great grandmother of Ruby, Zoe, Jasper and Leon. Sister of th
 LEVINS-Rose. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our dedicated member and benefactor Rose Levins. Deepest sympathy to her sister Hilda Semel, niece and nephew Maxine and Dr. Joel Hirsch, great-nephew Jeremy and the entire family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President Jerry F
 MANDEL-Marion. On Tuesday, November 21, 2000. She was 75 years old. Beloved wife of Seymour. Loving mother of Barry & Steven. Devoted sister of Milton Greiss. Loving grandmother of Adam, Alyse, Jason and Carrie. Funeral services will be held today, 11:30AM at Hellman Memorial Chapels, Sprin
 STOLZ-Monica Annie Florence. Deceased at Yonkers, New York on November 21, 2000. Loving and devoted wife of the late Bernard Stolz, MD, of Troy, NY. Loving mother of Daniel of St Louis, Alan of Houston and the late Robert. Cherished grandmother of Tracy, Brian, Barry (Patricia) & Tammy Stol
 EHRMAN-Edith K. Died on November 21 after a long life and a short illness. Predeceased by her parents, Jesse and Edith G. Koshland; by her husband, Frederick L. Ehrman; by her daughters, Edith Ehrman and Anita L. Ehrman; and by her sisters, Ruth K. Hellman and Frances K. Skipsey. Survived b
 FALK-Pauline. With deep regret we note the passing of our esteemed honorary Board member, Pauline Falk. She was a devoted and valuable leader of the JDC for many years, until ill health forced her to curtail her activities. Pauline came to her JDC commitment naturally. Her father was the il
 GREEN-Katherine E. (Epler), in New York City. Formerly of Revere and Brookline Massachussetts on November 21 in her 100th year. Wife of the late J. Walter Green. Sister of the late Oliver, George and Herbert Epler, Alice, Victoria and Louise. Beloved sister-in-law of Mrs. Irene Epler of Rev
 ROSENBLATT-Carrie Skloot. On November 22, 2000. Age 94. Beloved wife of the late Jacob H. Rosenblatt. Loving mother of Emily Spiegel and her husband Jerry, and the late Eleanor Sondock. Adoring grandmother of Pamela Sanders, Lise Wilks, Clifford, Bradford and Joanne Sondock and great grandm
 STOLZ-Monica Annie Florence. Deceased at Yonkers, New York on November 21, 2000. Loving and devoted wife of the late Bernard Stolz, MD, of Troy, NY. Loving mother of Daniel of St Louis, Alan of Houston and the late Robert. Cherished grandmother of Tracy, Brian, Barry (Patricia) & Tammy Stol
 Luise Kraus Addiss, an art-loving New Yorker who was the first person to be a member of the Metropolitan Museum for 75 years, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 101. Mrs. Addiss was 99 when she set that record in 1999, the museum said. She received flowers and an invit
 EHRMAN-Edith K. Died on November 21 after a long life and a short illness. Predeceased by her parents, Jesse and Edith G. Koshland; by her husband, Frederick L. Ehrman; by her daughters, Edith Ehrman and Anita L. Ehrman; and by her sisters, Ruth K. Hellman and Frances K. Skipsey. Survived b
 KALBAN-Gladys. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother passed away peacefully at home in her 85th year. Wife of Bernard, mother of Lois, Philip, Jeffrey and Sidney, nine grandchildren and a great-grandson. Stalwart of Hadassah and long-term officer of its FreeportRoosevelt Ch
 ROSENBLATT-Carrie Skloot. On November 22, 2000. Age 94. Beloved wife of the late Jacob H. Rosenblatt. Loving mother of Emily Spiegel and her husband Jerry, and the late Eleanor Sondock. Adoring grandmother of Pamela Sanders, Lise Wilks, Clifford, Bradford and Joanne Sondock and great grandm
 STOLZ-Monica (Mona). The extended Stolz and Gutwirth family mourns the loss of Mona, and sends our deepest sympathy and condolences to our wonderful cousins, Danny, Alan and Phyllis, and their families. Our Aunt and Sisterin-Law will forever be remembered by us all for the countless acts of
 EHRMAN-Edith K. Died on November 21 after a long life and a short illness. Predeceased by her parents, Jesse and Edith G. Koshland; by her husband, Frederick L. Ehrman; by her daughters, Edith Ehrman and Anita L. Ehrman; and by her sisters, Ruth K. Hellman and Frances K. Skipsey. Survived b
 FALK-Pauline. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Ocean Beach Club regret the passing of their good friend and member and send heartfelt condolences to her family. Sandy Paskin, President Nancy Lobell, Secretary       
 FRANK-Claire. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Frank. Died after a long illness on November 20. She was a caring and loving person who will be remembered by many dear friends. Memorial service Wednesday, November 29, at 1:45PM at The I.J. Morris Funeral Home, 21 East Deerfield Road, Dix Hil
 MARKS-Dolly S. On November 23, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Harold Marks. Dear mother of Iris (Uzi) Sasson. Adored grandmother of Joseph, Edith Joy, Daniel & great grandmother of Melody. Service Sunday November 26th, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contribut
 MARTIN-Joan (Weber). Died Thursday. Widow of William F. Martin, MD of Glen Cove, New York. Survived by her daughter, Beth Martin of Townshend, VT and son Jeffrey T. Martin of Glen Cove, NY. The Funeral Mass is Monday, Nov. 27 at 10 AM at Our Lady of the Valley Church. Visitation Sunday from
 ORENSTEIN-Hazel. Daughter of Sidney Orenstein and the late Mae Greiff Orenstein. Sister of Jonathan, Henry and David Orenstein. Sister-in-law of Sandra Seidlitz and aunt of Matthew, Natalie and Michael Orenstein. Died of ovarian cancer on November 23, 2000 at the age of 48 in Cambridge, MA.
 ROSENBLATT-Carrie Skloot. On November 22, 2000. Age 94. Beloved wife of the late Jacob H. Rosenblatt. Loving mother of Emily Spiegel and her husband Jerry, and the late Eleanor Sondock. Adoring grandmother of Pamela Sanders, Lise Wilks, Clifford, Bradford and Joanne Sondock and great grandm
 SPOTTON-Rhanda Elizabeth at Calvary Hospital, New York, on Sunday, November 19, 2000, after a courageous battle with cancer. Born in Toronto, Canada. Beloved sister of Gloria Crouser (Carrollton, Texas), Doris Hull (Payson Arizona), Roberta Ann Burns (Port Carling, Ontario, Canada), and Ron
 AUBRY-Lyla. Lewis and Marilyn Kaye and associates at Prudential MLB Kaye International mourn the loss of their longtime friend and colleague. She will be missed by all of us. Our condolences to her family and friends.       
 EHRMAN-Edith K. Died on November 21 after a long life and a short illness. Predeceased by her parents, Jesse and Edith G. Koshland; by her husband, Frederick L. Ehrman; by her daughters, Edith Ehrman and Anita L. Ehrman; and by her sisters, Ruth K. Hellman and Frances K. Skipsey. Survived b
 ELLIOTT-Mary Turnbull. On November 18 died in her sleep after a long illness at age 89. Beloved wife of the late Robert H. E. Elliott, MD (Pat). Loving mother of Mary (Patsy), Robert, and Susan; beloved grandmother of Anne, Elizabeth, Edward, Robert Jr, Mary, Beth, and Nora; and great-grand
 FALK-Pauline B. On Tuesday, November 21, 2000 at 90 years of age. Loving wife of the late Myron S. Falk, Jr. (Johnny). Mother of Patricia, Michael and Nancy. Grandmother of Christopher, Brooke, Melanie, Amerin, Gregory and Logan. Great grandmother of Ruby, Zoe, Jasper and Leon. Sister of th
 FLYNN-Hulda Rees. Died peacefully November 24 at the home of her daughter Sarah Flynn in Annapolis, MD, at age 90. Born in 1910 in Dartmouth, MA, and raised in Williamstown, Dr. Flynn received her B.A. (1931) and M.A. (1933) from Smith College and her Ph.D. in psychology from Columbia Unive
 FORREST-Jill L. (Rudes). Breast cancer advocate, creator of the first rehabilatative fitness video for breast cancer survivors, founder of the www.breastfit.com website, lecturer, loved and respected reading teacher at the Smith Street School in Uniondale, Long Island, graduate of Tufts Uni
 FRANK-Claire. With great affection we remember Claire. A wonderful, lively woman and friend to all on two and four legs. She enriched our lives with her generous love, emotional support, and humor. We miss her greatly and will always love her. Lisa Stern, David & Asher Lasday and Maggie    
 GAMBINO-Josephine L. On November 22, 2000 in Clearwater, FL. formerly of Albany, N.Y. Past President State Civil Service Commission appointee to commission 1977 by Hugh Carey. Awarded Honorary Doctor of Civil Law Degree from St. Johns University (1992). Member of the State Commission on Jud
 GOLDBERG - Rosalie Slocum. Ninety-three, at Greenport, L.I. on November 23, 2000. Accomplished artist, author and public relations and development executive. Beloved wife of the late, Hon. Arthur H. Goldberg, attorney and Criminal Court Judge in New York City. Survived by her dear sister, R
 HENKIND-Evelyn. On November 24, 2000. Beloved wife of Sol. Loving mother of Lewis and Ellie. Dear mother-in-law of Michael. Adoring grandmother of Hilary, Steven, Chimon, Adam, Rain and Heidi. She will be profoundly missed. Service Tuesday, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amste
 ITIL-Eleonore (Bretz), 75, of Nyack, NY, on November 22, 2000 died at home, in her sleep, as peacefully and dignified as she had lived. A graduate of the University of Tubingen (Germany), Ellen had worked as a research assistant at the Universities of Tubingen, Erlangen and Missouri. She wa
 MARKS-Dolly S. On November 23, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Harold Marks. Dear mother of Iris (Uzi) Sasson. Adored grandmother of Joseph, Edith Joy, Daniel & great grandmother of Melody. Service Sunday November 26th, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contribut
 ORENSTEIN-Hazel. Daughter of Sidney Orenstein and the late Mae Greiff Orenstein. Sister of Jonathan, Henry and David Orenstein. Sister-in-law of Sandra Seidlitz and aunt of Matthew, Natalie and Michael Orenstein. Died of ovarian cancer on November 23, 2000 at the age of 48 in Cambridge, MA.
 RICKS-Charlotte Hall. Of Ossining, New York died in La Crosse, Wisconsin, on November 19th while visiting her daughter Francie Ricks. The widow of James H. Ricks, Jr., she is survived by her daughter and a son, John Ryland Ricks, of Raleigh, NC. A memorial will be held at her home in Ossini
 ROSENBLATT-Carrie Skloot. On November 22, 2000. Age 94. Beloved wife of the late Jacob H. Rosenblatt. Loving mother of Emily Spiegel and her husband Jerry, and the late Eleanor Sondock. Adoring grandmother of Pamela Sanders, Lise Wilks, Clifford, Bradford and Joanne Sondock and great grandm
 TAYLOR-Sr. Eileen Mary (formerly Sister Mary Gaudentia). Died on November 24, 2000. Sister was a lifelong educator in the schools of the Archdiocese of New York as well as the New York City Public School System. She also volunteered at Jacobi Medical Center. Visiting Monday, 2-4 and 79 PM, 
 YOUNG-Rena. Beloved wife of the late Isadore, devoted mother of Shirley, Melvin and Barry, adoring grandmother of Mitchell, Wendy, Lisa and Bonnie, and proud great-grandmother of Isaac. Her joyful spirit brought warmth to all who knew her. She will be greatly missed by us all. She will fore
 Pauline Baerwald Falk, a philanthropist and a collector of Asian art who was also a former president of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. Mrs. Falk worked with Jewish refugees and other displaced people before and 
 Ruth Belcher Dyk, one of the last surviving participants in the women's suffrage movement, died in her apartment in Rochester on Nov. 18. She was 99. In a life that included working with delinquent girls, writing three books on psychology and producing anthropological studies of Nav
 BLACKWELL-Margaret M. Of Old Field, LI, and New York City died peacefully at home on Saturday, November 25, after a long battle with cancer. Daughter of Ward and Dorothy Melville, she was born on April 13, 1919, in Brooklyn, NY. Her husband, James H. Blackwell, died in 1986. She is survived
 HALPERN-Mildred. Passed away on November 25, 2000, in Miami, FL. Formerly of Great Neck, NY. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Daughter of the late Joseph and Marian Lipshie. She leaves behind her brother, Norman Lipshie, her daughter, Suzy Somers, her sons, Lawrence and Robert Halpern, five
 HENKIND-Evelyn. On November 24, 2000. Beloved wife of Sol. Loving mother of Lewis and Ellie. Dear mother-in-law of Michael. Adoring grandmother of Hilary, Steven, Chimon, Adam, Rain and Heidi. She will be profoundly missed. Service Tuesday, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amste
 MAYER-Anna Maria. On November 16, 2000, in Palm Beach, FL. Survived by her nephews Joseph Costa, Sr., and Nicholas Costa and nieces Joanne Costa and Geraldine Costa Cohen. Also survived by her grandnephew Joseph A. Costa, Jr. Funeral was Wednesday, November 22, at Our Lady of Pompei Church 
 Pauline Baerwald Falk, a philanthropist and a collector of Asian art who was also a former president of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. Mrs. Falk worked with Jewish refugees and other displaced people before and 
 AMES-Ann F. Of New York, NY. Died on November 23, 2000 at the age of 96. Mrs. Ames was the wife of the late Irving M. Ames. She is survived by her daughter Susan Ames. Mrs. Ames was awarded a Jurist Doctor degree from Cleveland-Marshall College of Law at Cleveland State University, a member
 BERKE-Helen Kirschner (nee Strauss). On November 8, 2000 in Belmont, MA. Born on September 11, 1914 in Brooklyn, New York. Beloved mother of Suzanne Kirschner Evenchik, grandmother of Alexander Laurence, and motherin-law of Leonard. Wife of the late Rudolph Berke, M.D. She was a warm and co
 BROWN-Helene F. The members and staff of Pryor Cashman Sherman & Flynn mourn the loss of their dear friend and colleague, Helene Brown, loving and beloved wife of Dean, mother of Elizabeth and Samantha, daughter of Shirley Roffman and sister of Susan Hyer. Her great spirit, loving heart and
 EHRLICH-Betty Rosmarin. 79, of Ft. Lee, N.J. and Monroe, N.Y., died surrounded by her beloved family after a full, active life, on November 25. Predeceased by her husband Sam Ehrlich, she was the loving mother of Steven David Ehrlich (''my son the architect'') of Los Angeles and Renee Ehrli
 FALK-Pauline B. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Pauline B. Falk, a loyal friend and dedicated supporter of UJA-Federation and Jewish philanthropic organizations worldwide. Her legacy of community leadership and generosity have l
 HELLMAN-Sheila Almer. The Board of Directors and staff of Ballet Hispanico of New York wish to express their heartfelt sympathies and condolences to Jill and her family on the death of her mother, Sheila. Jody Gottfried Arnhold, Chairman Tina Ramirez, Artistic Director       
 HENKIND-Evelyn. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Evelyn Henkind, a cherished friend of the Jewish community. Mrs. Henkind and her beloved husband, Sol, shared a deep commitment to ensuring the health and welfare of Jews around th
 KOEPPEL-Ruth S. Age 91, died peacefully on Thanksgiving, November 23, 2000 at home with her daughter Nancy and grandsons David and Steven in Stuart, Florida. Loving wife of the late Harry Koeppel. Adored mother of Nancy S. Koeppel and the late Robert A. Koeppel. Cherished grandmother of Dav
 KURLANDER-Judith Levey. The members of the Board of Directors, the staff, volunteers and youth of the All Stars Project express deep sadness at the death of Judith Levey Kurlander, the mother of our dear colleague, friend and organization President, Gabrielle Kurlander. Judith generously sh
 MAISEL-Lillian A. Beloved aunt of June Alperson, Jay Norman Maisel, Jay Nathan Maisel, Howard Maisel, Helen Bohmart Pine and Rachel Guinsburg. Devoted great-aunt and great-great aunt and dear friend to many. She will be missed.       
 PLAUT-Ilse (nee Dreifuss). Age 88. Of New York City. At last reunited with her beloved Ernst on November 27, 2000. Dear mother, mother-in-law to Harriett and Leon Heller, Vivian and Alan Lawsky, and Michael and Stephanie Plaut. Devoted sister to Erna Rothschild and Greta Strauss. Loving Oma
 SEKRETA-Barbara Ann, peacefully at home on November 26, beloved wife of Martin, devoted mother of Katherine, James, Carole, and Marie, loving mother-inlaw to William, Heidi, George, and Eric, adoring grandmother of Brian, Claire, Elizabeth, Ted, Owen, Claudia, and Martin, cherished sister o
 SMITH-Pamela Polhemus. 44, died November 22, 2000. She was born in Stamford, Connecticut on April 3, 1956, the daughter of Robert B. and Patricia A. Polhemus. In addition to her mother of Darien, CT, she is survived by her beloved husband of nineteen years, Peter Smith; children, Katrina, S
 ALLEN-Emily Lamb Tuckerman. 83, of Damariscotta and Round Pond, ME, formerly of Ipswich, November 23, of complications following automobile accident. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Henry Freeman Allen, formerly of Boston and Ipswich and daughter of the late Eliot Tuckerman, Esq., and Mary Lud
 AMES-Ann F. Of New York, NY. Died on November 23, 2000 at the age of 96. Mrs. Ames was the wife of the late Irving M. Ames. She is survived by her daughter Susan Ames. Mrs. Ames was awarded a Juris Doctor degree from Cleveland-Marshall College of Law at Cleveland State University, a member 
 BAYLEN-Joyce F. On Nov. 23, 2000 suddenly after a long illness at age 77. A lifelong Community, Social Activist & Health Educator who was part of the early Civil Rights, Women's and Peace Movements. She helped organize diverse community organizations during her fifty years of residence in H
 FALK-Pauline. The Board of Directors and Staff of the New York Association for New Americans Inc. (NYANA) mourn the passing of Pauline Falk. Mrs. Falk was a founding member of NYANA and a member of its Board of Directors from 1949-91 when she was elected as an Honorary Member of the Board. 
 HENKIND-Evelyn. The Solomon Schechter High School of New York is saddened by the passing of Evelyn Henkind, a cherished friend and role model, committed to Jewish education and the transmission of Jewish life values. Cochair of our benefit dinner and benefactor of our school, her love, kind
 HOWARD-Carol Lessack. On November 28, 2000. Loving mother of William and Esther, dear sister of Arthur Lessack, adoring grandmother of Benjamin Howard. Devoted aunt, cousin, friend and co-worker. Social worker for the New York City public schools. Service on Friday, 11:15 AM at ''The Rivers
 KADIN-Bracha. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Esther Lewittes upon the loss of her mother. We express profound condolences to the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, Pres
 KRAMER-Sylvia. On November 27, 2000. Beloved mother of Adrianne Crames, Rochelle Cleary, Ina Strauss, Lawrence Kramer, grandmother of eleven, great grandmother of six, dear sister of Arlene Cherney, sister-in-law of Jack Cherney, and Roslyn Leader. May her memory be for a blessing. Funeral 
 ROSEDALE-Dr. Glenda S. On November 9, 2000 in her native New York. A Summa Cum Laude graduate of Columbia University where she earned her BA, MA and Ph.D. She taught and did research at the same university. Many, many people, both friends and acquaintances, were charmed by her warmth & her 
 SCHLESINGER - Sala. Beloved wife of the late Walter Schlesinger. Loving aunt to Bernice and Dr. Richard Altman and Maxine and Dr. Joel Hirsch and great-aunt to Michael, Russell, Kenneth, Lisa, Darren, Jeremy, Justin, Olivia and Max and cousin to the Rynderman and Blazer families. She was ch
 WYMAN-Norman. On November 28, 2000. Beloved husband of Edith. Loving father of June Wyman and Susan Troxel and her husband Richard. Cherished grandfather of Sarah and Benjamin.       
 Juliet Garretson Hollister, in whose kitchen an interfaith organization called the Temple of Understanding was born 40 years ago, died on Sunday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 84. In 1960, at a time when nuclear Armageddon was not unthinkable, she felt the need to do someth
 ADLER-Irma S. Of Charleston, SC, formerly of Brooklyn. Died on November 28, 2000, of post operative complications. Devoted wife of Willy for 56 years, beloved mother of Roger, Vicki, and Lauri. ''Grammy'' to Aimee, Jessica, Melissa, Matthew, and Kristin, great grandchild, Julia. A graduate 
 AMES-Ann F. Of New York, NY. Died on November 23, 2000 at the age of 96. Mrs. Ames was the wife of the late Irving M. Ames. She is survived by her daughter Susan Ames. Mrs. Ames was awarded a Juris Doctor degree from Cleveland-Marshall College of Law at Cleveland State University, a member 
 ARCHER-Elizabeth. On November 28, at her residence, North Greenbush, NY. Beloved daughter of Morton Archer of Green Acres, Fla., and the late Minna Archer. Sister of Lewis Archer of Teaneck, NJ. She also leaves two nephews, a niece, and many caring and devoted friends. Services 9 AM, Decemb
 BAGNALL-June. Died November 28, 2000 at age 74. Ms. Bagnall was the daughter of the late Jeanette and Richard Bagnall. She is survived by her nephew Rodney Stewart, his wife Anita, son Jonathan and her many friends and neighbors. Ms. Bagnall was a New York City art teacher for over 30 years
 ELKON-Frances. Of Palm Beach and New York. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Spinoza of Boston and S. Max Elkon of New York. Devoted and loving mother of Marilyn Weinberg and Francine Friedlander. Loving mother-in-law of Robert Weinberg and Ralph Friedlander. Cherished grandmother of Eileen
 FELDESMAN-Lucille, my beloved irreplaceable wife, and my best friend for 56 years. Blessed by physical and inner beauty, self effacing, giving of herself to all who touched her life, rich of character, unassuming. She and I bonded a relationship of matchless deep love, and unsurpassed mutua
 HOLLISTER-Juliet G. Died November 26 at home of cancer after a brief illness. Born October 30, 1916, Forest Hills, Long Island, daughter of James and Dorothy Garretson. Married to Dickerman Hollister, from 1939 until his death in 1983. Graduated from Ethel Walker, 1934; Frobel League, 1937;
 HOWARD-Carol Lessack. On November 28, 2000. Loving mother of William and Esther, dear sister of Arthur Lessack, adoring grandmother of Benjamin Howard. Devoted aunt, cousin, friend and co-worker. Social worker for the New York City public schools. Service on Friday, 9:30 AM at ''The Riversi
 JACOBS-Rose. On November 29, 2000 in her 88th year. Beloved wife of the late Murray Jacobs. Dear mother of Howard Jacobs and the late Maxine Breslauer. Cherished grandmother of Peter, Susan, Hope and Alan. Adored sister of Frances Chasen. Services Friday, Dec. 1, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside
 KURZ-Alix J. On November 27, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Paul Helmut and loving mother of the late Josephine and Douglas. Funeral services will be held on Friday, 9:00 AM at Mary Manning Walsh Home, 1339 York Avenue, NYC. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory can be made to the Ame
 PARKS-Blanton S. Of Oyster Bay, New York, died with peace and dignity, at age 90, on November 26th, 2000. Services are private. She will be loved & remembered always by her three children: Melinda Parks Conrad of Wilton, CT., Nicholas R. Parks of Laurel Hollow, New York, and Thomas W. Parks
 WEISBROD-Dorothy Otto, 69, died Tuesday, November 28, 2000 peacefully in her home in Watchung, NJ by the side of her beloved husband and children. Many, many friends and acquaintances were both taken and charmed by Dorothy's exuberant sense of life, style and original wit. Dorothy's passion
