 Gertrude Ederle, who was called ''America's best girl'' by President Calvin Coolidge in 1926 after she became the first woman to swim across the English Channel, died yesterday at a nursing home in Wyckoff, N.J. She was 98. Ederle was a symbol of the Roaring 20's, a decade given as 
 BLUMKIN - WALTON -- Elaine. Died on September 14, 2003, in Merrick, L.I. Elaine was one of the first persons advanced to Director from the Clerical Staff of The Human Resources Department of New York City. Her approach to life was joyous, her positive liveliness attracted many friends. She 
 GRANT--Frances. Beloved wife of William for 67 years. Wonderful mother of Edward Grant (wife Jane) and Alice Brofman. Also survived by grandchildren Michael (wife Penny) Grant, Gregory (wife Elisabetta) Grant and Ben Brofman, and a great-granddaughter, Antonia LewinsGrant. Best friend and s
 KNOPF--Kate (Weiss). Beloved wife of the late Alex Knopf. Beloved mother to Carole Stutzel and mother-inlaw to Dr. William Stutzel. Beloved sister of Harriet Moresh. Beloved sister of the late Yetta Cohen, Isidore and Edward Weiss and Blanche Wind. She devoted her life to helping others. Sh
 NORDLINGER--Mildred. On Friday, November 28, 2003, at age 88. Abounding in an infinity of energy and ingenuity, Milly was the first woman member of the Automotive Advertising Council. A creative and inventive toy and gift advertising executive, she later began her own agency. Focused her en
 WOLFE RAPAPORT--Rita. Wife of the late Alexander and loving mother of her late children, Ann, Marshall and Judith. Wife of Leon. Sister of H. Stanley Cord and Steven Cord. Stepmother to John and Joy. Also survived by many nieces and nephews. Funeral services will be private.       
 DeSANTO--Anne McAllister. On November 30, 2003 at age 99. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Ernest Paul DeSanto. Twenty year volunteer at Roosevelt Hospital and longtime member of the Colony Club. Memorial service at St. James Episcopal Church, Madison Avenue at 71 Street Thursday December 4th, 
 EISEN--Sylvia. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 GALDOS--Carmen O. Died at home on November 27th. She leaves behind her loving sisters, Rosario O. Olazabal and Maria Luisa O. Obregon, her niece Rosario Delgado, her nephew Francisco Olazabal, her six grand-nephews and nieces and her 15 great grand-nephews and nieces. A mass for her repose 
 HERSCHFUS -- Leon, M.D. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the brother of our distinguished member, Mrs. Shifra Epstein Goldberg. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 KRALJIC--Nikica Ann. On November 30, 2003 in New York City. Niki passed on a beautiful Sunday afternoon surrounded by the ones who loved her most. She was 69 years old. She lived a very active life and was best known for her brilliant spirit and remarkable elegance. A tremendously intellige
 SILBERMAN--Audrey. The Board of Governors and Members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime beloved friend and esteemed member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Charles Roden, President       
 WEISL--Joan H. On November 30 at age 89. Wife of the late Carl Weisl, Jr. Mother of Mary Ellen Rudolph and her husband James Rudolph. Grandmother of John Rudolph and Jane Rudolph. Services were held yesterday. Contributions in her memory to the Goddard Riverside Community Center, 593 Columb
 WOOD -- Carolyn, former Assistant Dean of Columbia University Law School, patron of the Metropolitan Opera, member of the Friends of Mostly Mozart, Lincoln Center, and Metropolitan Museum of Art, died November 27, 2003 in Lewiston, ME. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Morningsid
 SAWYER -- Michelle An drews. Of Sturgis, MI, died peacefully in her sleep November 24, 2003. Memorial service today, December 2nd at 4:30 at Grace Church, 802 Broadway at 10th Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to a charity of your choice.       
 Sylvia Sebastiani, who married the boy next door and became the matriarch and later the chairwoman of one of America's most prominent wine families, died on Sunday in Sonoma. She was 87. Mrs. Sebastiani, who was also the author of a cookbook of family recipes, had given up day-to-da
 Katharine Sergava, the dancer and actress who portrayed the dream-ballet version of Laurey, the heroine, in the original production of ''Oklahoma!,'' died on Nov. 11 in Palm Springs, Calif., where she had settled in the mid-1960's. Various sources give the year of her birth as 1909 
 BARRAGAN--Beatrice ''Bibi'' on December 2, 2003. Born June 8, 1976 she left this world much too soon. Bibi brought joy and light and love and will be sadly mourned by all. She was the beloved daughter of Kay and Napoleon Barragan, founder of 1-800-Mattress; sister of Kay Massell (Paul), Lui
 DeSANTO--Anne McAllister. On November 30, 2003 at age 99. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Ernest Paul DeSanto. Twenty year volunteer at Roosevelt Hospital and longtime member of the Colony Club. Memorial service at St. James Episcopal Church, Madison Avenue at 71 Street Thursday December 4th, 
 HENRY--Miriam Glicksman, of Boca Raton, FL and formerly White Plains, NY, died at age 85. Wife of the late Alan Henry. Survived by her son, Richard Henry, daughter, Jill Viuker and five loving grandchildren, Tim, Claire, Matthew, Alex and Jordana.       
 SAGOV--Dunja. Our beloved Dunja, who left so soon. We'll miss her always. Rest in peace. Memorial service Saturday, December 6th at 680 West End Avenue, 2:30PM       
 STRAUS--Carol Herschel. 66, of Austin, TX died peacefully on Monday, December 1, 2003. She is survived by her husband, Tom Straus; children, James Straus and wife, Lisa, Phebe Brecher and husband, James, Stephen Straus and Douglas Straus and wife, Ann; six grandchildren; brother, James Andr
 Mary Pinkett, a labor advocate from Brooklyn who became the first African-American woman elected to the New York City Council, died yesterday. She was 72. The cause was heart failure brought on by cancer, said her nephew, Derek Glover. As a young woman in Brooklyn, Mrs. Pink
 GARDNER -- Corinne. Of Great Neck, N.Y., at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of Joan Roland and the late Wendy Parichy. Adored grandmother of David Parichy and Tika and Ari Roland. Dear sister of Ruth Frank. Services private. Contributions in her memory may be made t
 MULLANE--Cesiah Toro. We mourn the loss of an irreplaceable community activist and tireless President of the Board of Directors of the Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation. We extend our condolences to Cesi's beloved husband Michael, and all her children, grandchildren and great gran
 RIEGER--Lillian of Delray Beach, FL passed away December 2, 2003 at the age of 88. Beloved mother of Robert (Carmen) and Kenneth (Linda) and Joan Teitelbaum (Robert). Cherished grandmother of six and greatgrandmother of two. She will be missed by all those fortunate enough to have known her
 SAGOV--Dunja. Our beloved Dunja, who left so soon. We'll miss her always. Rest in peace. Memorial service Saturday, December 6th at 680 West End Avenue, 2:30PM       
 WALDMAN--Elvira Helfgott. Of Easton, PA, on November 25, 2003. Beloved wife of Herman B. Devoted mother of Jessica, Bruce and Mark. Cherished grandmother of 11 grandchildren and best friend of her sister Lorraine Wishner. Elvira, a lady of class and style.       
 Priscilla Comins Kidder, who rose to prominence as Priscilla of Boston, outfitting young brides as their numbers soared after World War II in embellished dresses that became synonymous with American matrimonial style, died on Sunday at her home in Winchester, Mass. She was 86. Antic
 DANIEL--Yvonne. October 15, 1899 - December 3, 2003. Wife of the late Louis and beloved mother of Marcella (and Edward), Pauline (and Jean), Lynne (and John), and her son, the late Louis Daniel. Cherished grandmother of sixteen, great-grandmother of thirty-six, and great-great grandmother o
 LaBRAN--Dorothy. On December 4, 2003. Born in New York, March 13, 1914, she grew up and raised her family in her home town until she and her late husband Leo retired to Margate, Fla in 1975. She is survived by her two daughters, Elinor Oertell and Roslyn Cohen, her son-in-law Harold Oertell
 SAGOV--Dunja. Our beloved Dunja, who left so soon. We'll miss her always. Rest in peace. Memorial service Saturday, December 6th at 680 West End Avenue, 2:30PM       
 SULLIVAN--Kathleen V. (nee Dwyer), of Riverdale, died peacefully at her home on December 5, 2003. She was born in Stone Park, Co. Roscommon, Ireland, one of four sisters and a brother, all but one of whom (Annie Mahon of Emlanagree, Donamon, Co. Roscommon, Ireland) have preceded her in deat
 WIMPFHEIMER -- Victorine Kops. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Seymour. Loving mother of Doris and David Finkel, Susan and Toby Abend, Ellie and Dr. Tom Slovis, Ann and the late Rabbi Baruch Bokser, and David, adored grandmother of 15 and greatgrandmother of 19. Educator, community leader and 
 Dr. Margaret Singer, a leading expert on brainwashing who testified in several high-profile cases contending that various groups inappropriately manipulated their members to control their behavior, died on Nov. 23 in Berkeley, Calif. She was 82. The cause was respiratory failure, sa
 GEEN--Renee. The Barnard College community grieves for the loss of its long time faculty member, Professor Renee Geen, an inspiring and generous teacher of French for nearly 50 years. Professor Geen was an admired and devoted member of our community who will be greatly missed. In addition t
 GOSLER--Henriette Swartberg, 97, on November 29, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Maurice. Devoted mother of Joe and Marja. Loving grandmother of Steven, Brian and Jake. Great-grandmother of Gabrielle and Sarah. She inspired us with her warmth, sharp wit and intellect.       
 HOROWITZ--Eleanor. Heartfelt condolences to Esther Felsen, on the loss of her beloved mother, a woman of great dignity and elegance. Esther, a member of the Women's Division Board, exhibits the loftiest values of Jewish tradition and ethics that she learned from her mother. Together with he
 HOROWITZ--Linda. Truly beloved wife of Richard. Devoted and caring mother of Jill and Jeff Libshutz. Loving sister of Bruce and Randi Pergament, and the late Sherri Pergament Koeppel. Devoted daughter of the late Murray and Irene Pergament. Loving daughter-in-law of Grace and Sidney Horowit
 LaBRAN--Dorothy. On December 4, 2003. Born in New York, March 13, 1914, she grew up and raised her family in her home town until she and her late husband Leo retired to Margate, Fla in 1975. She is survived by her two daughters, Elinor Oertell and Roslyn Cohen, her son-in-law Harold Oertell
 MONTAG--Lillian. Beloved wife of the late Herman, devoted mother of Richard & Elaine and Carol & Arnold Rifkin. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother, and dear sister of Evelyn Fischer, Florence Weinger and the late Ceilia Kaplan. Her generosity, strength and unconditional love will n
 SPITZER--Mabel, 93, passed away peacefully on December 3, 2003 after a prolonged illness. She was born in Woodhaven, NY, spent most of her married life in the Five Towns, Long Island, NY, raised three sons there and moved with her husband to Miami Beach in 1963. She is predeceased by her hu
 STRAUSS -- Marji (nee Krone). Most loved and adored wife for 53 years of Fred S. Beloved mother of Michael and Iris. Cherished grandmother of Michelle, Ilene, Matthew, Molly, Danielle and Ian. Marji, you will be deeply missed by all who knew you and never, never forgotten in our hearts. Fun
 SULLIVAN--Kathleen V. (nee Dwyer), of Riverdale, died peacefully at her home on December 5, 2003. She was born in Stone Park, Co. Roscommon, Ireland, one of four sisters and a brother, all but one of whom (Annie Mahon of Emlanagree, Donamon, Co. Roscommon, Ireland) have preceded her in deat
 WIMPFHEIMER -- Victorine Kops. 90. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Seymour. Loving mother of Doris and David Finkel, Susan and Toby Abend, Ellie and Dr. Tom Slovis, Ann and the late Rabbi Baruch Bokser, and David, adored grandmother of 15 and great-grandmother of 19. Sister of Daniel W. Kops. 
 Mary Jane Russell, a leading fashion model of the 1940's and '50's who was a favorite of the photographers Louise Dahl-Wolfe and Irving Penn, died on Nov. 20 in Charleston, S.C. She was 77. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said her husband, Edward T. Russell. Mrs. Russell b
 HOROWITZ--Linda. Truly beloved wife of Richard. Devoted and caring mother of Jill and Jeff Libshutz. Loving sister of Bruce and Randi Pergament, and the late Sherri Pergament Koeppel. Devoted daughter of the late Murray and Irene Pergament. Loving daughter-in-law of Grace and Sidney Horowit
 LEVY--Hester A. Beloved wife of the late Morris. Loving mother of Dr. Jerilyn Kronen and her husband Ken. Adoring grandmother of Ari and Joshua. Graveside service Monday, 10:30 am, at Mt. Carmel Cemetery, Glendale, NY. LEVY--Hester Engel. The Hampton Synagogue mourns the passing of 
 LYMAN--Elaine. On December 6, 2003. Beloved mother of Shelley and Larry Malman, and Howard and Chris Kra. Adored grandmother to Peter, Jared, Brooke Malman, and Max, Natalie Claudia Kra. She will be loved and greatly missed by family and friends. Services Tuesday, 12:45 pm, at Riverside Mem
 WIMPFHEIMER -- Victorine Kops. 90. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Seymour. Loving mother of Doris and David Finkel, Susan and Toby Abend, Ellie and Dr. Tom Slovis, Ann and the late Rabbi Baruch Bokser, and David, adored grandmother of 15 and great-grandmother of 19. Sister of Daniel W. Kops. 
 BAMBERGER--Ethel (Pat). Our entire congregation is saddened to record the death of a woman who has been an important and devoted member of the Temple Shaaray Tefila community for over 60 years. Along with her beloved late husband, Rabbi Bernard J. Bamberger Z''l, Mrs. Bamberger served our c
 BLADES--Nona. Nona's family is deeply saddened to announce her peaceful death at age 54 on Thanksgiving. She is survived by her parents Cecilia and Jehu Blades, four loving brothers and sisters and numerous nieces and nephews. Friends may come celebrate Nona's life at 215 W. 92 St. on Thurs
 HOROWITZ -- Linda. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a dear friend and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband, Richard; her children, Jill and Jeff Libshutz, and her brother and sister-in-law, Bruce and Randi Pergament. 
 SANDERSON -- Cindy, died peacefully on November 28th, 2003 after a 12-year battle with breast cancer. She was the beloved partner of Marcia Landsman, mother of Emma Ying and sister of Sara Sanderson. She was born in Arkansas and raised in Kentucky where she received a Ph.D. in psychology. C
 BARKSDALE--Sally. MS philanthropist and education advocate, Sally McDonnell Barksdale, has died in Jackson, MS at the age of 60. She is survived by her husband of 38 years, Internet pioneer and former Netscape CEO, James (Jim) Love Barksdale. She is also survived by her children: Susan Bark
 HOROWITZ--Linda. Your untimely death leaves a void in our family's lives forever. We shall truly miss you, along with our parents, the late Murray and Irene Pergament, who both died within the past year, and our late sister, Sherri Koeppel. We grieve together with Richard, Jill and Jeff, an
 KALT--Bronia (Dobkowski), On December 8, 2003. Our dearest and beloved friend passed away. We will miss her always. Love, Betty and Cyril       
 KESTNER-ZENIR--Kim. The Executive Board and members of The Mount Sinai Alumni, are deeply saddened by the untimely death of our beloved staff member. She will be sorely missed. Our most sincere condolences are extended to her entire family.       
 MARTIN--Edna Rose, 98. On December 8, 2003. Beloved aunt of five nieces and many grand nieces and grand nephews. She was a lifelong resident of New York City. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St Thursday, December 11th, 11-1PM. Mass following at St. Patrick's Ca
 PINKETT--Mary. The City University of New York deeply mourns the death of former City Councilwoman, Mary Pinkett, a Brooklyn College Alumna, the first African-American woman elected to the New York City Council. She was an excellent and dedicated supporter of CUNY and educational oppotunity
 ARENA--Gloria Theresa, December 8, 2003, age 75. Beloved and devoted mother of Paul and Colette. Our mother touched so many lives through her compassionate and loving nature as mother, aunt, teacher, friend, fitness enthusiast and wellness advocate. Family will receive friends for a memoria
 BRODSKY--Hilda. On December 10, 2003. Loving wife of Arthur. Dear mother of Iris and Sean Burnsworth. Grandmother of Jeremy Wood. Everyone who knew her loved her. You will be greatly missed and in our hearts forever. Rest peacefully. Arthur and Iris       
 HAIMS--Judith Feller, age 90, a devoted wife to her late husband, Sam, loving mother to Wendy Handler of Pound Ridge, NY, Bruce Haims of NYC. Passed away December 10, 2003 at her home in Stamford, CT. She was a cherished grandmother to Amy Bender, Barrie Klein, the late Randi Klein, Daniel 
 MATZA--Victoria (nee Alevy). On December 9, 2003. Beloved wife of Hyman of 56 years. Loving and proud mother of Andrea and Tony, Marc and Robin. Loving sister of Maurice. Devoted grandmother of Kim, Alex, Jackie and Cody. Her girls were the world to her and she was the world to her entire f
 PELL--Frankie. The members of the Board of Trustees of Old Westbury Gardens express sadness at the loss of our long-time and dear friend, Frankie Pell, who as an original Trustee and Vice-President, helped form the Gardens in its earliest years. We wish to offer sympathy to her extended fam
 VOLNER -- Vera Levinson. Age 93, died peacefully of old age December 6, 2003 in Bethesda, MD. She was predeceased by her husband of 48 years, Kelly Volner. Surviving are her son, Ian (Martha) Volner, daughter Kelcy (Richard) Roth, and five grandchildren, Mandy, Loren, and Glen Roth and Dave
 WHITEHILL--Jennie Levy. 96, a philanthropist and pioneer in the field of family and child welfare, died on November 28, 2003. She was a longtime resident of Scarsdale, New York. Mrs. Whitehill was born and raised in Henderson, Kentucky. A graduate of Goucher College, Baltimore, Maryland, sh
 FERMAN -- Bernice and Robert. Dear Bernice and Bob. miss you so very much. Aphrodite and Her       
 GRUEN--Carola S., 96. A resident of Palm Beach, FL., formerly of Riverdale, N.Y., died peacefully December 9, 2003. She is survived by her loving children Louise and Stephen Grayer of Chappaqua, N.Y. and John and Lois Gruen of Ossining, N.Y. She is also survived by four devoted grandchildre
 MINTZER--Shirley. Of West Palm Beach, FL, died at age 83. She is survived by her husband David, and three daughters, Anne Schiowitz, Barbara Davidow and Sandy Mintzer; two grandchildren Marc and Eric Schiowitz and two greatgranchildren Kaylie and Lauren Schiowitz. A graveside memorial servi
 PEISER--Mollie. Of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Murray Peiser. Loving mother and mother-inlaw to Mrs. Joyce and Dr. Paul Chapnick of Toronto, Canada and Dr. Steven and Mrs. Libby Peiser of Providence, RI. Adoring grandmother of Dawn, Adam and Ronit, Rob, Matthew, Sari, and Am
 ROTHPEARL--Rochelle. Age 92, musician, beloved mother and grandmother, died in her home on Wednesday, December 10, 2003 in Floral Park, NY. She was born on September 9, 1911 in Zaparosia, Ukraine/Russia, to the late Bessie and Elias Kritchmar. She emigrated to the USA in her pre-teen years 
 RYAN--Eileen B. (nee Sullivan), died Tuesday, December 10, 2003 at her home in Millbrook, New York, from complications related to lung cancer. She was 89. Fondly referred to by her grandchildren, nieces and nephews as ''Zsa Zsa'', she was well known for her wit and humor. When she was asked
 SHAPIRO -- Ruth (Spector). On December 11, 2003. Beloved wife of Norman for 62 years. Devoted mother of Merrill and the late Steven. Dear sister of Isabel and the late Marjorie. Adored grandmother of Jenai and Kiera. Cherished aunt. Beloved sister-in-law. Devoted friend and neighbor. Ruth w
 ANSHEN--Ruth Nanda. Died peacefully and with dignity at her home in New York on December 2nd, 2003, after a long illness, at 103 years of age. Her daughter, Judith Franks and her son-in-law, Hugh Franks survive her. Dr. Ruth Nanda Anshen was a worldrenowned philosopher, author and editor. D
 FISCHER -- Bernice. The Board of Governors and members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Florida acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Bernice Fischer. We extend our deepest sympathy to her family. Dr. Elliott Solomon, Pres.       
 LAMONT--Jennifer S., 38, of Brewster, NY, died on December 11, 2003. Jennifer is survived by her husband Stephen Lamont, two sons, Stephen Lamont Jr., and Drake Mengelt; mother and father Barbara and Samuel Jones; brothers Scott and Brian Jones. Reposing Hawthorne Funeral Home, 21 Stevens A
 SHAPIRO -- Ruth (Spector). On December 11, 2003. Beloved wife of Norman for 62 years. Devoted mother of Merrill and the late Steven. Dear sister of Isabel and the late Marjorie. Adored grandmother of Jenai and Kiera. Cherished aunt. Beloved sister-in-law. Devoted friend and neighbor. Ruth w
 Ethel Winant, who became one of the first female executives in network television when she was awarded a vice president's title at CBS in 1973, died on Nov. 29 at a hospital in Canoga Park, Calif. She was 81. The cause was complications of a heart attack and a stroke, said Pam Dixon
 ANSHEN--Ruth Nanda. Died peacefully and with dignity at her home in New York on December 2nd, 2003, after a long illness, at 103 years of age. Her daughter, Judith Franks and her son-in-law, Hugh Franks survive her. Dr. Ruth Nanda Anshen was a worldrenowned philosopher, author and editor. D
 BARRY--Sheila Anne. Beloved mother to Mark Weissman and Lael Kimble, grandmother and 'Ting' to Declan and Susanna, dear mother-inlaw to Lisa Ferris and Evan Kimble, passed in Santa Barbara on November 28. She died in the labor of the work she loved so deeply for over thirty years, producing
 FOULKES--Kimberly. On December 8. Beloved daughter of Richard and Ruth Foulkes. Loving sister of Mark Foulkes of Nantucket. Donations to your favorite charity in memory of Kimberly will be deeply appreciated by her family.       
 FRIEDMAN--Abby Noselson, beloved wife of B.H., mother of Daisy and Jackson, mother-in-law of Petra BertilssonFriedman, sister of Kalman Noselson, sister-in-law of Sanford Friedman, died peacefully December 10, 2003 at 77 after a year's courageous fight against cancer. She was a champion of 
 GINDY--Aida. Became one of the first Egyptian women to enter the United Nations. She had an extremely distinguished 32 year career in social development with the U.N. Aida dedicated her entire life to bettering the lives of others. Aida will be missed by family, friends and humanity. Aida p
 JACKSON--Irma Evelyn. February 26, 1911 - December 8, 2003. Treasured wife of Roberts Brock Jackson. Daughter of Pearl Radlow and Abraham Lowenstein of Boston; sister of the late Carolyn Lewis and Bernice Factor. Graduated from Teacher's College in 1929. Received a Master's degree in Direct
 LIGHTBOWN -- Mary Jane. The staff of the Department of Architecture and Design of The Museum of Modern Art, sadly notes the passing of longtime colleague Mary Jane Lightbown. From 1968 until her retirement in 1984 her research on architecture and design informed the museum's publications, e
 LUDWIG--Eileen Denari. Of San Francisco, CA, beloved wife of James J. Ludwig and devoted mother of Lisa Constance Ludwig, died on December 3, 2003 after a three year long courageous struggle fighting lung cancer. A memorial service was held at Grace Cathedral and a reception followed at the
 McDONNELL--Alice Geraldine (Gerry), age 55, passed away suddenly December 3, 2003. A warm, friendly person, she will be sorely missed by her many friends and associates.       
 NASH--Florence J., died on December 8, 2003 at the age of 89. Devoted wife of the late Monroe Nash. Loving mother of Irwin & wife Esther, Carl & wife Sharon, Laura and Theodore Nash. Grandmother of Jay, Wendy, Aaron, Abigail, Adam, Daniel, Jonathan, Rebecca, Uziel, Shahar, Joshua and Maayan
 Friede F. Roth, a personal representative for classical musicians, most notably the pianist Claudio Arrau, died on Friday in Manhattan, said Josephine Hemsing, a friend of Ms. Roth. She was 89 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Roth was born near Kiev, Ukraine, in 1914 and moved to New Yor
 ANSHEN--Ruth Nanda. Died peacefully and with dignity at her home in New York on December 2nd, 2003, after a long illness, at 103 years of age. Her daughter, Judith Franks and her son-in-law, Hugh Franks survive her. Dr. Ruth Nanda Anshen was a worldrenowned philosopher, author and editor. D
 BROWNELL--Catherine Baillargeon Noonan. March 15, 1924, to December 11, 2003. Wife of Francis H. Brownell III. Formerly married to Dermott Noonan (deceased). She is survived by her children Catherine Noonan-Flint, Sheila Noonan (Peter Hartley), Moira Noonan, Dermot Noonan (Kelly), Tighe Noo
 SILVER--Claire. Died peacefully and with dignity at her home in Woodland Hills, CA. Devoted wife to David, loving mother to Jillian and Jan, Carole and Harvey, Joe and Renee, adored Grandma to Annie, Matt, Scott, Adam and Jenny, and Great-Grandma to Hayden. She lived her life caring for her
 CUMBER--Mary Josephine ''Jo''. Mary Josephine ''Jo'' Cumber, 81, of Chester Village West, wife of the late Warner G. Cumber, died Friday, December 12th, 2003 at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, CT. Jo spent most of her years in Douglaston, LI where she began her lifelong passion for sailin
 DUPONT--Alana Lawrence. Passed away on December 13, 2003, in Burlingame, California, after a brave, yearlong battle against cancer. A loving family including her husband of twenty-eight years, Peter W. Dupont, and their three daughters, Lilly, Daisy, and Charlotte were by her side. She left
 EPSTEIN--Janice (nee Kaufman). On December 14, 2003. Devoted wife of the late William. Beloved mother of Carla Silber and mother-in-law to Dan Silber. Treasured grandmother of Rebecca and Abigail. Cherished aunt. Sister of the late Louis Kaufman, Mary Kaufman, Florence Silverstein and Bess 
 GOGLIO--Janet A. of Merrick on December 13, 2003. Attorney at Law and a Certified Public Accountant. Devoted daughter of Esther and the late Ferdinand Richard Goglio. Loving sister of Barbara Goglio. Also survived by her aunts, cousins and her many colleagues and friends. A Funeral Mass was
 HECKER -- Mindelle Schul man, 81. Raised in Union City, New Jersey, and a long time resident of Teaneck, New Jersey . Died in her home in La Jolla, CA on December 11. Loving wife of the late Bruce A. Hecker, she is survived by her beloved daughters Lynn Beyerle and Deborah Potashnik, grandd
 KAGAN--Rachel. It is with enormous sorrow that we share the news of our mother's death on December 13th, 2003 from breast cancer. She fought valiantly for as long as she was able. She took her leave with the same love, generosity, humor and grace that marked her entire life. She was a belov
 ROTHE--Frieda. I mourn the passing of Frieda Rothe, an enthusiastic champion of the artists she represented, and music in general. She will be warmly remembered. Lee Lamont       
 WEINER--Rae. Passed on December 14, 2003 in Boca Raton, FL. Much-loved mother to Sheila Weiner Rozzo of FL and Michael Weiner of CA. Devoted grandmother cherished by her grandchildren Bari Rozzo, Bonny Plosker, Brandee Rozzo and Russell Weiner and Rebecca Yops. Funeral service 2 PM gravesid
 WILSON--Barbara, Psychotherapist, of New York City, died December 15, 2003. Adored wife of Gordon Wilson. Loving mother of Deborah, Denise, Claude and Ian and mother-in-law of Gene Levy, Lea Abrams and Marianela Wilson. Loving grandmother of Riley, Johanna, Maggie, Daniel, Mariah, Chloe, Ev
 YORK -- Harriet Glover, passed away on Wednesday, December 10, 2003 at Santa Rita Care Center in Green Valley, AZ. Mrs. York was formerly of Palm Beach, FL, New York City and Easthampton, NY. She was raised in Palm Beach, then lived for almost forty years in New York City. She lived for sev
 Dr. Elizabeth Bates, a leading expert on the way infants develop language and an outspoken critic of the theory that humans are endowed at birth with a language module, died on Sunday at her home in San Diego. She was 56. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Dr. Jeffrey Elman, a cl
 Jenifer Estess, a theatrical producer who set up a foundation for research into Lou Gehrig's disease after she learned she had it, died yesterday at her apartment in Manhattan. She was 40. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or A.L.S., as Lou Gehrig's disease is formally kn
 DUPONT--Alana Lawrence. Passed away on December 13, 2003, in Burlingame, California, after a brave, yearlong battle against cancer. A loving family including her husband of twenty-eight years, Peter W. Dupont, and their three daughters, Lilly, Daisy, and Charlotte were by her side. She left
 EPSTEIN--Janice (nee Kaufman). On December 14, 2003. Devoted wife of the late William. Beloved mother of Carla Silber and mother-in-law to Dan Silber. Treasured grandmother of Rebecca and Abigail. Cherished aunt. Sister of the late Louis Kaufman, Mary Kaufman, Florence Silverstein and Bess 
 GREENSTEIN--Frances, died at NYU Medical Center on December 16th, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Devoted mother of Susan and Fred Oberstein. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer. Dear sister of Pauline and Bernie Coler, Roz Goldin, Dick and Claire Grossbaum, and Laurie Seldon. Services
 HALZEL--Lee Abramowitz. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science (ACWIS) mourns the passing of Lee Abramowitz Halzel, a longtime devoted member of the ACWIS Board of Directors who made many visits to the Weizmann Institute in Israel. She was the benefactor of the Lee and
 KECKEISSEN--Rita G., on Monday, December 15, 2003, after a short illness. She graduated from the College of Mount Saint Vincent in 1939, and received a Master's Degree from Columbia University in 1959. She retired in 1983 as Reference Librarian of Columbia University, but continued to work 
 LESHAW -- Marjorie (nee Stark). Of New York City, on December 16, 2003. Survived by her husband Edward, son James, daughter Nancy Setterquist, sister Lila Hershey and four grandchildren. Services are Thursday; graveside 1:30 PM at Cedar ParkBeth-El Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. Donations to Multip
 RILEY--Mary Frances Kiernan, 78, of Bronxville, New York, on December 14, 2003. Predeceased by husband Timbes Riley (1959), longtime companion Raymond D. Von Frank (2001), and father John M. Kiernan Sr. Survived by her mother Agnes Kiernan. Loving mother of Lynn (Richard) Riley Feinson, of 
 DUPONT--Alana Lawrence. Passed away on December 13, 2003, in Burlingame, California, after a brave, yearlong battle against cancer. A loving family including her husband of twenty-eight years, Peter W. Dupont, and their three daughters, Lilly, Daisy, and Charlotte were by her side. She left
 ESTESS--Jenifer. The Estess family and the entire Project A.L.S. organization and friends are mourning the loss of Jenifer Estess. Jenifer passed away on Tuesday morning, December 16, 2003 in her home, after a long and courageous struggle with ALS. Jenifer fought this disease, as she lived 
 FINN--Anne Brine, 75, of Sharon, CT; formerly of Ardsleyon-Hudson, NY died December 17th of Multiple Myeloma. She leaves her beloved husband of 53 years, Robert Macy Finn, eight children: Robert Jr., Maggie Gray, Anne Nelson, Christopher, Mary Wood, Timothy, Kathleen Carr, Nicholas and seve
 GERBER--Marion, 82, died on Wednesday, December 10 at her home, in Hanover, NH. She is survived by her daughter, Joanne Gerber, and three grandchildren. In WW II, she was a writer, researcher, and announcer for U.S. government radio programs broadcast to Latin America. After raising three c
 GREBE--Sylvia T. Sylvia Thresher Grebe, 96, died December 10th in Hamden, CT. Daughter of artist Brainerd Bliss Thresher and Mary Colby Thresher and an artist herself, she was born December 21, 1906, in Dayton, Ohio and married to the late Dr. Frank Grebe, minister, Madison Avenue Presbyter
 GREENSTEIN--Frances, died at NYU Medical Center on December 16th, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Devoted mother of Susan and Fred Oberstein. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer. Dear sister of Pauline and Bernie Coler, Roz Goldin, Dick and Claire Grossbaum, and Laurie Seldon. Services
 HALZEL--Lee Epstein Abramowitz. I mourn the passing of my adopted mother. Her generosity will always be warmly remembered. Sarah Gurwitz       
 KUCERA--Georgianna (Janet). On December 15, 2003, beloved wife of Otto, loving mother of Otto and Linda, and mother-in-law of Richard Battista, and the late Isabell, cherished grandmother of Jennifer, Joel, Veronica, Peter, Richard, and Sean. Fond sister of Bertha Duda, and Charles Vesely, 
 OVESEY--Regina. Wife of the late Dr. Lionel Ovesey. Mother of Candace and Michele Ovesey. Grandmother of Paul, Alexandra, Craig and Nicholas. First woman in the U.S. to own an ad agency recognized by the Association of American Advertising Agencies. Winner of numerous advertising awards, wi
 ROSEN -- Nathalie (nee Zweig) on December 12, peacefully, four days after her 95th birthday, when she was surrounded by her family. Beloved wife of the late Clement Rosen, cherished mother of David and his wife Andrea Penkower Rosen, and of Marc and his wife Susan Pinsky. Adored by grandchi
 SCHNUTE--Martha. December 10, 2003. Dear sister of Sara Lochhaas, Louise Schnute and Ruth Nisbet, loving aunt of Stephanie Nisbet, devoted daughter of the late Martin and Edna (Fehr) Schnute of Falls City, NE. Educated at Cornell University School of Nursing and Hunter College in New York. 
 SHERMAN -- Lydia. Hadas sah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc., mourns the passing of Lydia Sherman, beloved wife of Nathan, of blessed memory, and cherished mother of Shelley Sherman and David Diamond. Lydia was a generous benefactor of Hadassah, devoted to Israel and the J
 WARD--Roslyn. Of Manhattan Beach, CA. died December 15, 2003, the day after her 98th birthday. A graduate of Columbia Teachers College, she was the daughter of the late Herman and Sarah (Sadie) Weinberger; beloved mother of Dana Ward of Manhattan Beach, CA. and the late Michael Ward; dear s
 Elizabeth Stevenson, the first executive director of the National Brain Tumor Foundation, died on Nov. 30 in San Francisco, where she made her home. She was 57. The cause was complications of pneumonia and of a brain tumor first diagnosed in 1979, her family said. The founda
 CHITEL--Joan. On December 17, 2003. Beloved wife of Bob. Devoted mother of David and Douglas and mother-inlaw of Cristina. Loving daughter of Dr. Joseph Ormand and the late Estelle Ormand. Dear sister of Kenneth, Richard and Diane Ormand. Services Friday, 12:45PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th 
 DANA--Gladys Crocker, of Marion and Lenox, MA, December 16, 2003. Wife of the late David T. Dana, Jr. She is survived by one brother, Quentin Crocker of Echternach, Luxembourg, two sons, J. Loring Swasey Jr. of New York City and Malcolm Crocker Swasey of Manchester-by-the-Sea, MA, and three
 DOUGLAS--Isabelle Z., Ivoryton, CT, formerly of West Islip and Point O'Woods, New York. Daughter of the late Isabelle Frothingham and Robert Weaver Zimmerman, wife of the late Dr. Earl W. Douglas. In World War II, she served in the American Red Cross during the Battle of the Bulge. For eigh
 ESTESS--Jenifer. The Columbia University Medical Center faculty, alumni and staff mourn the loss of Ms. Jenifer Estess, founder of Project A.L.S. and a valued friend and supporter of Columbia's A.L.S. research programs. We extend our sincere condolences to her family, especially Valerie and
 HOFFMAN--Florence (Jerri Trenell). Beloved wife of the late Martin. Devoted mother of Mia and Eric Colodne. Loving grandmother of Jason & Kim and Bara. Great-grandmother of Aaron, Benjamin and Alexandra. Cherished friend of Stella. Services Friday 9:30am, ''The Riverside,'' 76th St & Amster
 LELAND--Virginia. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Tom Weiner Rabbi Shira Milgrom Lisa Borowitz, President       
 RIBNER--Betty Tuck. In Jerusalem on November 29, 2003. Wife of the late Rabbi Dr. Herbert Ribner. Mother of Hillel & Elizabeth (NJ), Eytan & Irene (LA), Dena & Mark Fish (Jerusalem). Grandmother of Lisa, Danielle, David, Avigayil, Dita, Nathaniel, Maya, Boaz & Aderet. Ardent Zionist, teache
 WHITLOCK--Gloria, 74, of Palm Beach, Florida, died in the morning of December 18th, 2003. Born July 30, 1929, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, she was the only daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Leo D. Welch. Her father was the Chairman of Standard Oil of New Jersey, Citibank, Comsat, and an arbi
 BAXTER--Christine Evelyn, devoted wife, mother, daughter, grandmother, sister and friend, died at home surrounded by family on December 18, 2003. Born in New York, daughter of Mary and the late Matthew Zagroba, devoted sister to the late Edward Zagroba, she graduated from St. John's Univers
 CHITEL--Joan. On December 17, 2003. Beloved wife of Bob. Devoted mother of David and Douglas and mother-inlaw of Cristina. Loving daughter of Dr. Joseph Ormand and the late Estelle Ormand. Dear sister of Kenneth, Richard and Diane Ormand. Services Friday, 12:45PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th 
 OVESEY--Regina. The Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research mourns the passing of a great friend and supporter of the center. We are deeply grateful to her for her generous contributions to the center in the name of her late husband, Lionel Ovesey, one of the cen
 ROSS--Ann Gilmour died December 18, 2003 at Gladeview Health Care Center in Old Saybrook after a long illness. She is survived by her sister Mrs. Deane G. Marsh and her husband, the Rev. Donald Marsh of York, ME. She was the daughter of Bryant F. and Margurite Scarborough Gilmour. She was b
 LAPE--Eve B. December 20, 2002. Her bright, brave imprint on life remains, and she is loved. Bo       
 Regina Ovesey, the first woman to be chief executive of an advertising agency recognized by the industry's main trade group, the American Association of Advertising Agencies, died on Dec. 13 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 82. The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter, Can
 BLANK--Blanche Davis. 80. December 19, 2003. Acting President, Dean of Social Sciences, Professor of Political Science, Hunter College; Vice-President, Yeshiva University. Blanche was the center of a large and loving family, whose motto for living was ''carpe diem.'' She was an extraordinar
 CHARRY--June Boyer. Died on November 30, her 82nd birthday, in Mount Kisco, NY. As psychologist for the Greenburgh, NY School District from 1960-1980, and in private practice, she helped many children and young adults on the path to mental health. She received her MA in psychology at the Un
 CHITEL--Joan. On December 17, 2003. Beloved wife of Bob. Devoted mother of David and Douglas and mother-inlaw of Cristina. Loving daughter of Dr. Joseph Ormand and the late Estelle Ormand. Dear sister of Kenneth, Richard and Diane Ormand. Services Friday, 12:45PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th 
 CONNOR--Dr. Grace. Died December 9, 2003 at her home in Playa del Rey, CA. Beloved sister of Elizabeth Silverman, and the late John F. Connor. Former wife of John E. Gordon. Longtime physician at King Drew Medical Center. Memorial service will be Sunday, February 1st, 1:00 PM at Cambridge o
 DRUCKER--Sally D. Passed away December 18, 2003, in Massachusetts, age 90. Former New York City school teacher. Survived by her daughter Esta Sobey, a brother, a sister, and three grandchildren.       
 EISENBERG--Norma. On December 18, age 88. Loving wife for 62 years of the late Paul Eisbenberg. Devoted mother of Judith Bieber and Richard Eisenberg. Beloved grandmother of Michael Bieber, Wendy Jacobs, Alan Eisenberg, Robin Friedman, Robert Eisenberg, and greatgrandmother. Devoted daughte
 HOFFMAN--Florence (Jerri Trenell). Beloved wife of the late Martin. Devoted mother of Mia and Eric Colodne. Loving grandmother of Jason & Kim and Bara. Great-grandmother of Aaron, Benjamin and Alexandra. Cherished friend of Stella. Services were held on Friday at ''The Riverside.'' Donation
 KITT -- Frances, 85, died peacefully on December 17, 2003, after a lingering illness. Her survivors include daughter, Edith Sawitsky, son-inlaw Michael Keane of South Orange, step-granddaughter Karin, great - grandchildren Anna Elisabeth and Herman of Oslo, son Kitt Sawitsky, daughter - in 
 LEVENTHAL--Rose. Age 90 In Delray Beach, FL. on December 19, 2003. Beloved, beautiful wife of Jack. Dearest mother of Peter, Joan (Wynn) and Robin. Adored grandmother of Andrew (Nada) and Alexander Wynn, and Gabriella Leventhal-Posner. Honored mother-in-law of Richard Wynn. Great grandmothe
 MICHELSON -- Naomi (nee Katz). On Thursday, December 11, 2003, at her home in Fort Lauderdale, FL. Born on September 25, 1906, longtime resident of NYC, Westport Island, ME, and Ft. Lauderdale, FL. Beloved aunt of Robert and Carolyn Washor, Lenore and David Krieger, Diane Katz Feinman, Laur
 OGDEN--Margaret. Beloved by her family, Margaret Ogden died at her home on December 17, in her 99th year. She is survived by a brother, Dayton Ogden, a sister, Athalia Barker, by 12 nephews and nieces and by 29 great-nephews and nieces and their children. A member of the Smith College Class
 PARKER--Brenda S., of Peterborough, NH, died on December 17, 2003, of Parkinson's Disease. She was the daughter of the late Ruth (Bigelow) and William Leroy Sweet of Staten Island, NY and the granddaughter of Mr. and Mrs. William Sweet of Waterloo, NY and Edward Payson Bigelow of New York C
 STONE--Elaine H.S. One of my favorite moms; one of my first adult friends. My condolences to the family, who shared her so generously. Angela       
 SULLIVAN--Brenda M. Suddenly December 14, 2003. Survived by sister Sheila Sullivan Maynard, brother Bede C. Sullivan, good friends Deirdre and Michael Lambe, her nieces and nephews. Predeceased by brother Gael M. Sullivan. Godspeed, my friend. Donations to Project Children, P.O. Box 933, Gr
 SWEET--Nancy Lees, 86, formerly of Pelham, died Wednesday, November 19, 2003. Devoted wife of the late Dr. A.Y. Sweet. She is survived by her daughter, the Honorable Deborah Sweet Eyler of Annapolis, MD.; her daughter Elizabeth Sweet Czernek of Briarcliff Manor, NY; her grandsons Joshua and
 LAPE--Eve B. December 20, 2002. Her bright, brave imprint on life remains, and she is loved. Bob       
 Dr. Gisela Konopka, a pioneer in the study of troubled adolescents who provided groundbreaking insights on disruptive behavior among girls, died on Dec. 9 in Minneapolis. She was 93. The cause was pulmonary edema, said Dr. Robert Blum, a friend and colleague, who is a professor of p
 Gladys Shelley, a prolific songwriter whose ballad ''How Did He Look?'' became a cabaret standard and whose jingle for Palisades Amusement Park once saturated the airwaves in the New York area, died on Dec. 9 at home in Manhattan. She was 92. Her death was reported by the American S
 Hope Lange, a film, television and stage actress noted for a natural comedic style and intelligent portrayals of women in difficult circumstances, work that brought her two Emmy Awards and an Academy Award nomination, died at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif., on Friday. She was 70 and liv
 BLANK--Blanche. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of Blanche Blank, beloved friend and former Trustee. Eminent educator of national and international reputation, she gifted us for decades with wise counsel drawn from her boundless intellectual curiosity and
 KOGOS--Sarah Pollock. Died on December 20, 2003, in Hollywood, FL, at 94. Beloved mother of two surviving daughters, Nancy and Richard Beckman of Hollywood, FL, and Bonnie Kogos of NYC. Her grandchildren are Amy Beckman of Somerville, MA, and Eric Beckman of NYC. A celebration of life servi
 LEVENTHAL--Rose. Age 90 In Delray Beach, FL. on December 19, 2003. Beloved, beautiful wife of Jack. Dearest mother of Peter, Joan (Wynn) and Robin. Adored grandmother of Andrew (Nada) and Alexander Wynn, and Gabriella Leventhal-Posner. Honored mother-in-law of Richard Wynn. Great grandmothe
 LIPPE--Marie Tansey. On December 20, 2003, of New York, NY. Beloved wife of the late William T. Devoted mother of William T. Jr., Maureen Lippe Taylor and Michael Lippe. Loving grandmother of William T. Lippe III, Margaret Young, Christine Walsh, Nicholas Taylor and Kaitlyn Lippe. Great-gra
 McGARRY--Joseph G. Of Bellmore, LI, suddenly at the age of 40 on December 19, 2003. Loving son of Maryann McGarry and her late husband Joseph. Beloved brother of Joanne, Catherine Susczynski (Charles) and Mary Ellen Cusumano (Vincent). Loving friend of Kevin O'Halloran. Also survived by one
 Blanche Davis Blank, a social scientist and author who led Hunter College as interim president in the early 1990's, died on Friday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y., her family said. She was 80. Dr. Blank, a former social science dean at Hunter and academic dean at Yeshiva Universit
 BENISCH--Nancy Larson on December 21, 2003 of Manhasset, NY, peacefully at home. Beloved wife of CEB. Loving mother of Christopher, Erik, Joanne and Jason. Beloved sister Joan Lamers, brother-in-law John Benisch and wife Muriel. Nancy loved her four grandchildren, Peyton, Spencer, Jacquelin
 BLANK--Blanche Davis. The Division of Social Sciences in The School of Arts and Sciences at Hunter College mourns the loss of Dr. Blanche D. Blank. We remember her fondly as our Dean and our Acting President.       
 BRONSTON--Inger Diamant. Born April 21, 1933, in Sweden. Passed away December 12, 2003, in Oxnard, CA. She is survived by her daughter Erica Broido (Greg Dawley) of Los Angeles. She lived in Greenwich Village in the 1950s.       
 OGDEN--Margaret. The New York Altar Guild notes with sorrow the passing of their esteemed member, Ms. Margaret Ogden. Margaret was our able treasurer for many years and she will be missed by all who knew her. Mai D. Harper, President       
 RANSOHOFF--Rita M. Died peacefully at home in Branford, CT December 13, 2003. She is survived by her loving children Joan Wynn and Joseph Ransohoff, grandchildren James, Benjamin, Olivia, Christopher, and Sianna, and son-and daughter-inlaw, Peter Wynn and Debrah A. Ransohoff. Dr. Ransohoff 
 SILITSKY--Barbara. Age 58. Suddenly on December 19, 2003 in Coral Springs, FL. Beloved wife of Jerry. Devoted mother of Cindy & Scott. Loving daughter of Ruth. Adoring sister, grandmother, aunt. She will be greatly missed.       
 YAVERBAUM--Justine (nee Caplan). Beloved wife of the late Dr. Arnold Yaverbaum. Passed away peacefully on December 19, 2003. She is survived by her son, Harvey and daughter - in - law Kathryn Meyer, grandchildren Daniel, Peter and Rachel and greatgrandson Jesse. She will truly be missed.   
 BLANK--Dr. Blanche Davis. Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a respected educator, social scientist, and author. Dr. Blank served as vice president for academic affairs at YU from 1977 until 1981, the first woman in Yeshiva's history to occupy a major administrative post. She served w
 BODMAN--Rosamund Reed, died in New York on December 15, 2003 in her 83rd year. Third of four daughters of Mr. and Mrs. Horace Garner Reed (Florance Hofflin), Mrs. Bodman was predeceased by her husband Edward Dunham Bodman (1991). She is survived by her daughter Alexandra Veit Schwaller of C
 FIDLER--Kate S. January 5, 1905 to December 22, 2003, of Forest Hills, NY. A remarkable woman, ''Grande Dame'' of Pinelawn Memorial Park. Beloved wife of the late Herman Fidler, loving mother of Millicent Freedman, devoted mother-in-law of Herbert J. Freedman. Dear friend of May Rose Gordon
 GERSTEIN--Tina. Her bereaved husband announces that she died peacefully, leaving behind a loving family of husband, children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Chapel, 180 W. 76 St in New York City on Friday, 11:30 AM.       
 MILLER--Gerda. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our founding Nursery School Director, Gerda Miller. As an expert in the field of Early Childhood Education, Mrs. Miller came to Rodeph Sholom in 1958 and developed a caring and nurturing environment for young children to learn. B
 REGAN--Joan S., M.D. On December 22, 2003. Of Pleasantville NY. Sister of Mary Regan. Niece of Eileen McCulloch, cousin of Mary Nowak and Donald McCulloch, second cousin of Zachary and Collin Nowak. Resting Friday, 2-4 and 7-9PM at Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville NY. Mass of Christian B
 TUCKER--Lady Vera. The partners and staff of Goldstein, Golub, Kessler LLP note with sorrow the passing of a great lady at the age of 104. We extend our condolences to her grandchildren, Michael Romney, Sharon Rosenfeld, Mark Romney and their families.       
 WILLIS--Gwendolyn Handy. Devoted mother of Philip and Christopher, beloved sister of Albert, doting grandmother of Spencer, Kirsten and Britt. We remember her for her wit and lively spirit. Services December 30, 11AM at Church of Heavenly Rest, NYC.       
 GREENBERG--Gwen Joy. 39, of New York City, NY. Gwen was the beloved daughter of Paul, sister-in-law of Fred Tuck and beloved aunt to Lauren 14, Amanda 12, Jake 10 and Will 5. Adoring sister of the late Jill Tuck and daughter of the late Lenore Greenberg. All three of these incredible women 
 GREENBERG--Lenore, nee Kronenberg. 67, of New York City. Survived by her husband Paul Greenberg, son-in-law Fred Tuck, and four adoring grandchildren, Lauren 14, Amanda 12, Jake 10 and Will 5. Loving and devoted mother to the late Jill Greenberg Tuck and the late Gwen Joy Greenberg. All thr
 SCHUMAN -- Rita Zwecker. On December 24, 2003. After a brief illness but long and valiant effort with the ''long forgetting''. Devoted wife for over 50 years of the late Jack. Beloved mother of Mady. A woman of sharp intellect, unique style and great humor, she will never be forgotten. Serv
 TUCK--Jill Hope, nee Greenberg. 41, of Larchmont, NY. Born at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan, NY, Jill was an amazing mother and wife. She is survived by her father Paul Greenberg, her best friend and husband Fred and their four children, Lauren 14, Amanda 12, Jake 10 and Will 
 VASEY--Joan Lewis. On December 10, 2003. Beloved mother of James. Gifted teacher and writer. Will be mourned by her family and friends.       
 GOLDKLANK--Jean. On December 24th. She could love, she did love and she is loved. When we had nothing, she made magic. She was smart and sexy and knew how to have fun. We were lucky. Thank you Jean from your loving family. Services Friday, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam A
 GREENBERG--Gwen J. The Brooklyn Law School Community mourns the loss of Gwen J. Greenberg, the School's Director of Alumni Relations, her mother, Lenore, and her sister, Jill Tuck, in a tragic accident in Mexico. Gwen's energy, intelligence and grace will be greatly missed. We extend our de
 HOELTERHOFF -- Olga Christina, (nee Goertz). Born May 14, 1912 in Riga in Latvia, died December 17, 2003 in Valley Cottage, NY. Her long and complicated life reflected the tragedy of the Baltic States. Driven from her beloved home in Jurmala by Hitler and Stalin, displaced and often ill, sh
 Helen Gustafson, a tea buyer and author who championed fine tea, pushed it onto the menu at Chez Panisse and other restaurants and taught the art of the afternoon tea, died on Dec. 14 at her home here. She was 74. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Clair Gustafson. She 
 FASSEL--Marta. Concert pianist and teacher. Loving mother of Verica Neumann, died on December 23, 2003. She is survived by her sister Gyorgyi and nephew Ronald.       
 LEVITAN-UR--Hana. Died on December 26 at home in Larchmont just short of her 102nd birthday. Survived by daughter Lillian Bernstein (Leslie), three grandchildren and their families. Services Sunday, at noon, at Riverside Chapel, Mount Vernon, N.Y.       
 PATT -- Edith. Bnai Zion mourns the loss of its distinguished member, Edith Patt, wife of our former National President, Raymond Patt. A social worker by profession, she spent a lifetime serving the blind and multiply handicapped. We extend our sincere condolences to Raymond, son David and 
 QUINN--Shirley B., 83, died on December 24, 2003. Dedicated English teacher and speech and language pathologist for the Oceanside School District for 37 years. Graduated from Queens College and New York University where she completed her Master's Degree in speech pathology. Born in Brooklyn
 SHAPIRO--Doris (nee Herman), 79, of Delray Beach, FL. Wife of the late Joseph Shapiro. Survived by her son, Stuart and daughter-in-law, Sharon and their children Rori and Jessica of Ridgefield, CT and a sister Rita Zdatny of Boca Raton, FL. Funeral services Sunday, 11AM in the Kane Funeral 
 COHEN--Anita (Audie). Age 77, on December 25, 2003. Wife of Burton, mother of Mindy and Peter, grandmother of Sara and Laura, sister of Mildred and Jean, and friend who'll be missed dearly by all who knew her.       
 FASSEL--Marta. Concert pianist and teacher. Loving mother of Verica Neumann, died on December 23, 2003. She is survived by her sister Gyorgyi and nephew Ronald.       
 FEIGELMAN--Miriam (nee Richman), 79, of Bayside, Queens. Died on Thursday, December 18th. She was the beloved wife of Victor. Mother of Ted, Elizabeth, Susan and Paul. Mother-in-law of Katie, Dean, Cliff and Kathleen and grandmother of seven. Many will remember her as a magnetic and dynamic
 KEYSER--Barbara Loncope. On December 23 at the age of 87 at Jones' Contrivance Farm, Reisterstown, MD. Wife of the late William Fenwick Keyser, she is survived by her sister, Mary Lee Johansen of Lee, MA; her son, Michael Keyser of Butler, MD; two daughters, Belinda Keyser Kaye and Susanna 
 KONNER--Catherine. On Saturday, December 27, 2003, Catherine Konner died peacefully at her Chevy Chase, MD, home. Wife of Stuart Garfinkle and mother of Harper Garfinkle. She is also survived by her mother Joan Weiner Konner of NYC, father Jack Konner of Ridgefield, CT, and sister Rosemary 
 LAW--Caroline Wiess. Of Houston, died peacefully at home on her birthday, December 24, 2003. She was born on Christmas Eve in Beaumont, TX in 1918 to Olga Keith and Harry Carothers Wiess. She attended Kinkaid School, The Ethel Walker School, and Sarah Lawrence College. She married William H
 LEVITAN-UR--Hana. Died on December 26 at home in Larchmont just short of her 102nd birthday. Survived by daughter Lillian Bernstein (Leslie), three grandchildren and their families. Services Sunday, at noon, at Riverside Chapel, Mount Vernon, N.Y.       
 LINDLEY--Peggy (nee Marion Miller), of Old Black Point, Niantic, Connecticut, on December 25, 2003. Wife of the late Daniel Allen Lindley, she is survived by her son, Daniel Allen Lindley, Jr., grandchildren Daniel Allen Lindley III and Helen Lindley Hastings, and five greatgrandchildren. B
 SCHWARTZ--Paula Reibel, 78, of ovarian cancer on December 21. Playwright, author of 36 Elizabeth Mansfield Regencies and three historicals by Paula Reibel, Paula Jonas and Paula Reid. She wrote as she lived, with intelligence, wit and style. Condolences to her family. Devoted readers and bo
 STERN--Ruth. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Ruth Stern, on December 26, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Private services. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exe
 TISI--Jane Hall. On December 27, 2003. A longtime Katonah, NY, resident. Died peacefully after a courageous battle against cancer. She was 67. She is survived by her loving husband of 44 years, Charles, and her sister Bonnie McGlasson of Hendersonville, NC. She was born in Barrington, IL, a
 TUCCILLO--Amelia P. Patron of the arts and accounting manager for National Bulk Carriers for 35 years, was born in Hoboken, NJ, to Italian immigrant parents. She moved to Hasbrouck Heights, NJ, and later moved to Manhattan where she worked, played and loved. Retiring in the late 90's, she l
 WILLIS--Gwendolyn Handy. Devoted mother of Philip and Christopher, beloved sister of Albert, doting grandmother of Spencer, Kirsten and Britt. We remember her for her wit and lively spirit. Services December 30, 11AM at Church of Heavenly Rest, NYC.       
 ASHTON--Lillian Renee. Of Parsippany, NJ. Died on December 27, 2003. She was the beloved wife of Jeffrey Ashton, devoted mother of Stacey Ashton of New York City and Brent Ashton of Morristown, NJ, cherished daughter of Gene Hacker and the late Bella Hacker of Boynton Beach, FL, and loving 
 KEATING--Pegeen (nee Eustis). Of Essex Fells, NJ, on December 25, 2003. Beloved wife of Marshall P. Keating. Daughter of the late Brittin C. and Peggy (Fox) Eustis. Devoted sister of Miriam Eustis Irwin, Susan K. Fitzgerald and Mary A. Martin. Funeral services private. Contributions in her 
 SMERLING--Sylvia. July 15, 1917, to December 27, 2003. Beloved mother, grandmother, great-grandmother. Loving and beloved sister, aunt and cousin. Passed at 1 am, on Saturday, December 27, 2003, in Berkeley, CA. Sylvia is survived by her sisters Pearl Goldsmith and Anita Eshay, her daughter
 STEVENSON -- Isabelle Lu bow. 1913-2003. Of New York City. Wife of 64 years of John A. Stevenson (who predeceased her), mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, aunt and Chairman of the American Theater Wing, an organization she has been with for over 40 years. She leaves her beloved daughte
 TISI--Jane Hall. On December 27, 2003. A longtime Katonah, NY, resident. Died peacefully after a courageous battle against cancer. She was 67. She is survived by her loving husband of 44 years, Charles, and her sister Bonnie McGlasson of Hendersonville, NC. She was born in Barrington, IL, a
 Isabelle Stevenson, the president of the American Theater Wing for more than 30 years, its chairwoman for the last five years and one of the best-known figures in the theater world, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan, her daughter Laura said. She was 90. She was perhaps best kn
 BARKIN--Louise Paula (nee Zweifler), 72, of Brooklyn, NY. Passed away peacefully in her home surrounded by family after a courageous battle against cancer. Through her life-long dedication to education, she influenced the lives of so many as a professor, principal, teacher and mentor. Belov
 BIBERMAN -- Susan Jane Hadley, M.D. On December 27, 2003 at age 84. Retired Full Professor at Cornell Medical School. Beloved wife of David, mother of David Hadley and Anne Biberman. Sister to Cornelia Hadley, Helen Obert, and Priscilla Hadley. Interment private. Contributions in her memory
 FAIRBANKS--Mary Herron. Died December 19, 2003. Wife of the late William E., mother of Paul (deceased), Mary Fairbanks Bennett, William and Richard Fairbanks; sister of Helen, Paul (deceased) and Charles (deceased). Former director of public information at the New Jersey Dept. of Higher Edu
 GIBSON--Ellen Amy. 84 years of age. On December 26, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Henry John. Devoted mother of Colin John. Loving mother-inlaw of Maureen McNellis. Dear grandmother of Maggie Beth, fond sister of Stanley George. Mrs. Gibson was a lifelong resident of London, England. The l
 GOMEZ--Olga. On December 20, 2003, in a traffic accident. Beloved wife of Julio, mother of Olga and grandmother of Wilka. A gentle and compassionate woman of great integrity. An experienced social worker, Olga was a beacon of life for everyone who knew her. She will be greatly missed. Memor
 GUEOVJIAN--Mrs. Myrna R. 64, died Saturday, December 27, 2003 at Memorial Health University. Native of the Bronx, NY, living mostly in Pelham Manor, NY. She had been a resident of Savannah for the past nine years. She was a member of the Landings Association. She was a retired Art teacher, 
 HOFFER--Juliana (Tekula). Died December 26, 2003 at her home in Mountain View, CA. She will be missed by her husband Lawrence Hoffer, her mother Doris Tekula Borkon, and her sisters Nadine Tekula Bompane and Joan Tekula Bogen. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the National Founda
 HOFFMAN--Joan Proskauer, 87 of Roslyn Heights on December 29, 2003. Beloved wife of the late John E. Hoffman. Loving mother of Hilde Hoffman Agatstein and Julien P. Hoffman. Beloved grandmother of Gregg, Justin and David and great-grandmother of Sage. Adoring motherin-law of Henry and Diane
 KELSON--Selma (nee Lurie), age 70, on December 28, 2003. Beloved wife of Leonard. Loving mother of Andrea (Chris Fleming) and Judith (Jonathan Schuster). Devoted sister of Marian Useloff. Cherished grandmother of Jack and Nora Fleming and Liliana Kelson. Adored aunt of Andrew and Jen Uselof
 KHEEL--Ann Sunstein. Died on Sunday, December 28. Beloved wife of Theodore. Devoted mother of Ellen (Mrs. Arnold Jacobs), Robert, Constance, Marti, Jane Stanley, Katherine Fleischman. Eleven grandchildren and one great - grandchild. Funeral services private. A celebration of her life to be 
 KIOK--Helen, 87, died suddenly on December 25, 2003. Wife of Aquiba Kiok. She is survived by her children: Ellen Kolodney and Joshua Kiok; son-in-law and daughter-inlaw Nathan Kolodney and Barbara Wexler Kiok; grandchildren Akiba Kolodney, Jeffrey Kiok, Leah Pizer and her spouse Jason Pizer
 MILLNER--Elaine U. Longtime volunteer with UJA, New York office, devoted wife of the late Saul. Loving sister of Allan Ullman; nephews Noah and Adam Ullman. Graveside service at Mt. Golda Cemetery, Huntington, L.I., 1PM Tuesday. Donations to UJA Federation, New York City office, or 5 Towns 
 RITZ--Esther Leah Medalie. Born May 16, 1918, died in Milwaukee, WI, December 26, 2003. Preceded in death by husband Maurice Ritz. Survived by sons David and Peter; daughter, Joyce Kemp; sister, Louise Bloom; brother, Yale Medalie; five grandchildren, and many nieces, nephews and cousins. A
 SMERLING--Sylvia. July 15, 1917, to December 27, 2003. Beloved mother, grandmother, great-grandmother. Loving and beloved sister, aunt and cousin. Passed at 1 am, on Saturday, December 27, 2003, in Berkeley, CA. Sylvia is survived by her sisters Pearl Goldsmith and Anita Eshay, her daughter
 STEVENSON -- Isabelle Lu bow. 1913-2003. Of New York City. Wife of 64 years of John A. Stevenson (who predeceased her), mother, grandmother, great-grandmother, aunt and Chairman of the American Theater Wing, an organization she has been with for over 40 years. She leaves her beloved daughte
 Ann Sunstein Kheel, a civic leader and environmentalist whose posts included chairwoman of the State Parks Commission for the City of New York, died on Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Center in Manhattan, her family said. She was 88 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. Her husband is 
 AGNELLO--Mary, C.M. on December 28, 2003. She was a teacher with the NYC Board of Education. Longtime resident of Stuyvesant Town. Graduate of NYU. Friends may call at the Mary Manning Walsh Home, Friday, January 2nd, 9-9:30am. Mass of Christian Burial at Mary Manning Walsh Home, 1339 York 
 CHALKIN--Hannah. Died on December 29, 2003. Devoted wife of the late Irving, beloved mother of Judy and Richard, mother-in-law of Kenny and Nancy, grandmother of Sharon, Bonnie, Heidi, Robert, Nicholas, Lindsay, great grandmother of Jordan, Jonah, Elizabeth, Montana, Jacob, Max, London. A p
 GOLDMAN -- Lillian (nee Kirsch). Of Flushing, N.Y. On December 29, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Charles. She is survived by her brother Harry Kirsch, children Adria Goldenkranz, Rhonda Gordon and Stuart Goldman, and grandchildren Karen, Laura, Shelby, Kaela, Chad, Jamie, Kimberly, Sarah a
 KHEEL--Ann Sunstein. Died on Sunday, December 28. Beloved wife of Theodore. Devoted mother of Ellen (Mrs. Arnold Jacobs), Robert, Constance, Marti, Jane Stanley, Katherine Fleischman. Eleven grandchildren and one great - grandchild. Funeral services private. A celebration of her life to be 
 KRUMHOLZ--Gertrude. On December 29, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Nathan A. Loving mother of Leta and the late Isadore Elroy. Dear sister of Elsie (Larry) Scharf and Irving (Lillian) Bloom. Adoring grandmother of Gregg and Karen, Brett and Elyse, Jarett and Carol. Cherished ''Super'' great
 STERN--Ruth. The Officers, Governors and members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Ruth Stern, former member of the Board of Governors, member of the Sunshine Committee and a dedicated Co-Chairman of the Entertainment Committee who produced some of 
 STEVENSON -- Isabelle Lu bow. The Board, staff and members of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York (A.R.T./New York), mourn the passing of Isabelle Stevenson, Chairman of the American Theater Wing. A great lady of the theater, Isabelle was a true benefactor, working on behalf of the t
 Vestal Goodman, a matriarch of gospel music whose influence ranged far beyond its traditional audience, died on Saturday in Celebration, Fla. She was 74. The Associated Press reported her death based on information from funeral home officials and her own Web site. The cause was not 
