 Amaryllis Fleming, a British cellist who was particularly devoted to chamber music and the Baroque literature, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Nettlebed, near Oxford, England, where she lived. She was 73. Ms. Fleming lived a colorful life, partly because she was born into a family 
 Anita Carter, a member of country music's pioneering Carter Family and a star in her own right, died in her home in Goodlettsville, Tenn.,  near Nashville, on Thursday. She was 66. The cause was not yet known, Lou Robin, her manager, told the Associated Press. Ms. Carter had rheumat
 Zohara Schatz, a sculptor who designed a symbolic menorah for the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial in Jerusalem, died on Tuesday in Jerusalem after a long illness. She was 83. Ms. Schatz's aluminum six-branched candelabrum of 1985 represented the six million Jews killed in the 
 Elizabeth Forsling Harris, who was briefly the first publisher of Ms. magazine, died on July 14 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 77. She died in a hospital of complications from emphysema, said a friend, Patricia Reilly. Ms. Harris helped start Ms. magazine in late 197
 Shulamit Katznelson, who was awarded the 1986 Israel Prize for Life Achievement, her country's highest honor, for bringing Arabs and Jews together through learning each other's languages, died yesterday at her home in the coastal town of Netanya, north of Tel Aviv. She was 80. The c
 Kathryn Murray, the hostess of ''The Arthur Murray Party,'' which used comedy and celebrity to sell ballroom dancing to the masses in television's infancy, died on Friday at her home in Honolulu. She was 92. Mrs. Murray had been the executive vice president of the dance-studio empir
 Viola Sheely, an actress, a singer and a founding member of the Urban Bush Women dance company, died on July 27 in Tompkins Square Park on the Lower East Side. She was 41 and lived in Manhattan and Bali. Ms. Sheely had taken her daughter, Jessye, to the park and apparently had a hea
 Claudette Sorel, a pianist who was at her best in music that demanded delicacy and lyricism but who also gave highly regarded performances of difficult contemporary works and big Romantic showpieces, died on Friday at her home in Hampton Bays, N.Y. She was 66. The cause was cancer, 
 Jennifer Paterson, the over-the-top co-star of the quirky television cooking show ''Two Fat Ladies,'' died yesterday at a hospital in London, where she lived. She was 71. Lung cancer had been diagnosed last month after Ms. Paterson fell ill while filming installments of the cooking 
 Celestine Sibley, an Atlanta newspaper columnist who for 55 years wrote about the commonplaces of Southern life in a prose as soothing as the hum of cicadas in summer, died on Sunday at her vacation home on Dog Island, Fla. Ms. Sibley was 85, and her last column was published in The
 Eleanore B. Saidenberg, the owner of an art gallery that for years was Picasso's primary representative in the United States, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. Born Eleanore Block in Chicago in 1911, Mrs. Saidenberg graduated from Finch College in New York and sta
 Kim Perrot, the tiny floor leader of the Houston Comets team that has won the first two Women's National Basketball Association championships, died here today. She was 32. She died at the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center after a public battle against lung cancer. She
 Altina Schinasi Miranda, who is credited with designing the flared-frame Harlequin eyeglasses, which first came into vogue in the late 1930's and which have made kitschy comebacks from time to time, died on Thursday at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 92. Mrs. Miranda came up with
 Eugenie Marron, a renowned big-game fisherwoman a half-century ago, died on Monday at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 99. In her heyday, Mrs. Marron, who lived in Brielle, N.J., and Palm Beach, Fla., held five world fishing records; one women's record, for a 722-pound sw
 Nancy Guild, a film actress who starred opposite some of the leading men of the 1940's and early 50's, died on Monday at her home in East Hampton, Long Island, after a long battle with emphysema. She was 73. Ms. Guild, whose full name was Nancy Guild Martin, was ''discovered'' in ol
 Vera Krasovskaya, the dean of Russian ballet historians and a ballet writer who was highly respected in the West, died on Sunday at her home in St. Petersburg, Russia. She was 83. Ms. Krasovskaya came to ballet writing after a career as a dancer. She trained at the Leningrad Choreog
 Barbara White Fishman, an art director at advertising agencies who developed breast cancer and became a benefactor of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, died Thursday at the center. She was 60 and lived in Manhattan and in Remsenburg, N.Y., where she kept a studio. The caus
 Eva Shain, the first woman to serve as a judge at a heavyweight championship boxing match when she was assigned to the Muhammad Ali-Earnie Shavers bout at Madison Square Garden in 1977, died Thursday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital and Medical Center. Mrs. Shain, who lived in Fort Lee, N.J., w
 Patricia Beer, a British poet concerned with death, theology and the mysteries of everyday existence,  died on Aug. 15. She was 79. The cause and place of her death were unavailable. Ms. Beer was among the few candidates for successor to Ted Hughes,  Britain's poet laureate,
 Sandra B. O'Leary, an economic adviser in three White House Administrations and a former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, died on Aug. 9 at her home in McLean, Va. She was 50. The cause was liver cancer, said her husband, James. Ms. O'Leary served as an economic adviser 
 Martha Rountree, the co-creator and first moderator of the NBC News program ''Meet the Press,'' died on  Monday at Sibley Hospital in Washington. She was 87 and lived in Washington. On June 24, 1945, Ms. Rountree and Lawrence E. Spivak introduced the show on radio, unveiling it two 
 Doris R. Schwartz, a nurse who did some of the earliest research on geriatric nursing care and whose findings led to improvements in health care for the elderly, died on Sunday at her home in Gwynedd, Pa. A former resident of Manhattan, Ms. Schwartz was 84 and had moved to the Foulk
 Tove (Musse) Hansen, who presided over Scandia, a popular Los Angeles restaurant in the 1950's and 60's, after helping Jews flee Denmark during World War II, died last Saturday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 88. In 1946, Ms. Hansen's husband, Kenneth, opened Scandia, a French a
 Evelyn Shrifte, the longtime president of Vanguard Press, which published the first books of Saul Bellow, Dr. Seuss and Joyce Carol Oates, died on Aug. 8 at her home on the West Side of Manhattan. She was 98. Ms. Shrifte, whose name is pronounced ''Shrift,'' was one of the first wom
