 ADAMS--Ruth, M.D. Of Oakland, California, died on December 16, 2005 at Kaiser Medical Center in Oakland. She was 88 years old. Born June 12, 1917 in Cleveland, Ohio, the daughter of George Dana Adams and Pearl (Bittle), Ruth grew up in the Cleveland area. She graduated from Wellesley Colleg
 FORD--Mary Louise McGovern. Of Palm Beach and Madison, CT, passed away, December 28, 2005 at her home in Palm Beach. Mrs. Ford was predeceased by her husband, Thomas P. Ford and is survived by Mrs. Steven Adkins (Mimi), Mrs. Keith Madsen (Lili) and William M. Ford and one granddaughter. A M
 GELB--Bertha.(Geberer),95, of Lauderhill, FL.;December 18, 2005; widow of Irving Gelb. She leaves a legacy of boundless love and devotion for her family. Everyone admired the closeness of her family, her determination, her intellect, patience and creativity.Jewish philanthropy was part of h
 HASS--Helen B. Died peacefully on December 29, 2005 after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Nathan Hass and devoted mother of Lawrence Hass and Carol Goldman (Myron). Proud grandmother of Joanna, David and Lindsay Hass and Dr. Robert T. Goldman, Pamela Goldman Feldman (Gerald) an
 LEWBELL--Elaine D. (nee Drucker). On Wednesday, December 28th Elaine passed away peacefully at the age of 95. Beloved wife of the late Kenneth Lewbell. Loving mother of Carol and Gary. Cherished grandmother of Erik, Christopher and Julia. She lived her life with grace and style and always d
 MILLER--Joan Callner. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Joan Callner Miller of Chicago and Palm Beach, an unflagging supporter of our organization, of the Technion and of Israel for many decades. She was a member of the national Board of 
 MURDOCK--Madeleine (nee Huntington). Died peacefully at home, December 25, 2005. She is survived by daughter, Pamela and stepdaughter, Catherine, and was predeceased by husband, Lewis, and daughter, Frances. A Memorial Service will be held at 11 A.M., Friday, January 6, at St. Lukes Episcop
 TANABE--Eru ''Elle''. 83, of New York, died peacefully on December 22, 2005. She was preceded in death by parents Keiji and Yayoka and siblings Emi, Fumi and Nobu. She is survived by fourteen nieces and nephews, and her lifelong friends the Alexander Heard family of Nashville, TN. Her famil
 TWINING--Renee Kohn. Died December 26, 2005, 101 years old, in Manhattan. Emigrating from Vienna, Austria with parents and six siblings she entered the swirl of New York in the 1920's. She lived life fully and with grace. Her memory will be cherished by son and daughter-in-law Ralph and Roc
 GETZLER--Eva. December 28, in her 100th year. Wife of the late Charles. Mother of Abe and Shelly (Horowitz). Cherished grandmother of Renee, Marian, Joel, Robin, Amy, Allen. Beloved greatgrandmother of 14. Greatgreat-grandmother of two. A wonderful, remarkable woman. Many good memories and 
 ALFOND -- Dorothy Levine ''Bibby''. Age 89, died in her native Waterville, ME on December 31, 2005. A resident of Palm Beach, FL, who summered for nearly sixty years at the family compound she and her husband began on Great Pond in Belgrade Lakes, ME, she was a woman of immense charm and gr
 BUTLER--Aileen Sedgwick Taylor. Of Keene, NH, died December 24, 2005. Beloved wife of Sidney for 58 years. She is also survived by two daughters, Laura Butler, Fort Collins, CO, Ruth Harper, Williamsville, VT; two sons, Thorne, Jackson, MS, and Colin, Putney, VT; a sister, Lydia Elliott, Sa
 DEUTSCHER--Susan. January 2, age 85. Widow of Max Deutscher and Peter Bernard. Beloved and loving mother of Lisa and Maria. Devoted mother-in-law of Rob Garber and Joel Siegel. Adoring grandmother of Nick and Laurel Garber. Dear aunt, sister-in-law and stepmother. Cherished friend to many. 
 EPSTEIN -- Miriam (nee Drossner), 88. Of Floral Park, NY, died on January 1, 2006, of a stroke. Adored grandmother of Caroline Epstein Lynn and Daniel Epstein Lynn. Devoted mother of the late Allen and the late Joseph. Beloved wife of the late Oscar. Dear sister to the late Jacob. Dear sist
 SILVERMAN--Gloria. Beloved wife of Charles. Devoted mother of Michael and Andrew Silverman, and Lisa Guise. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan, Robert, Elissa, Jessica, Holly Rose, Steven and Lauren. We will all miss her very much and have her forever in our minds and hearts. Services Temple
 WHITMAN -- Olga Julia. Passed away on December 29, 2005. A wonderful caring person who was much beloved by her friends and family. She will be missed very much by her sister Sylvia, her niece Vicki, her nephew Bill and his wife Gabrielle, and their children, grandnieces Julia and Alexandra,
 Tory Dent, a poet, essayist and art critic whose verse told of life with a diagnosis of H.I.V. and of the struggle to keep her creativity alive, died last Friday at her home in the East Village. She was 47. The death was announced by her husband, Sean Harvey. The cause was an opport
 Candy Barr, an exotic dancer whose hardscrabble life became Texas legend as she befriended Jack Ruby (who killed President John F. Kennedy's assassin), dated a mobster, shot her husband went to prison for drug possession, and starred -- unwillingly, she insisted -- in a famous stag film, di
 BERK--Elaine. Devoted, adored and beloved wife of Harold for more than 69 years. Daughter of Rita and Elmor Alkus. Beloved brother of Warren, born in Philadelphia in 1914. She was an active and proud member of the National Council of Jewish Women and ORT, serving each organization and its c
 BLUESTONE--Gladys (Goodman). Died January 2, 2006. Beloved wife of the late George C. Bluestone. She is survived by sons, Stephen L., Washington, D.C., and Robert J., Stamford, CT., daughter Barbara Bluestone Heller, New York, brother Donald Goodman, Allentown, PA., and grandsons, Zachary, 
 DEUTSCHER--Susan. January 2, age 85. Widow of Max Deutscher and Peter Bernard. Beloved and loving mother of Lisa and Maria. Devoted mother-in-law of Rob Garber and Joel Siegel. Adoring grandmother of Nick and Laurel Garber. Dear aunt, sister-in-law and stepmother. Cherished friend to many. 
 GALE--William E. On December 28, 2005. Survived by cousins of the Farrell and Massett families. Dear friend of Nina and her daughters the Go-Go's. For funeral information call Frank E. Campbell, 212-288-3500.       
 HABERMANN--Eva. Died in Walnut Creek, CA, at the age of 91, of pancreatic cancer. Born in Hamburg, Germany, and longtime resident of Manhattan and Water Mill, NY. She is survived by her husband Fred Habermann, her daughter Joann Habermann, M.D., her sister Margaret Sichel and her brother Jo
 JAFFE - Rona. Family, friends and colleagues deeply mourn the passing of celebrated novelist and philanthropist Rona Jaffe, of New York City, in London on December 30, 2005, at age 74. She graduated from Radcliffe in 1951 at age 19. In 1958, at age 26, Rona's debut novel ''The Best of Every
 MUTTERPERL--Gail, (AKA Alison Gale), aged 37, tragically on December 31, 2005. Beloved daughter of Charles and Carol, loved so much by her sister, Lori Bosses, adoring aunt Amanda and Brian. Cherished by all her family members and special friends she'll be remembered for her compassion, tal
 NUSSBAUM--Toby A. Age 66, died January 3, 2006 in New York after a lengthy struggle with pancreatic cancer. To the very end, she lived her life to the fullest, with grace, with dignity, with courage, with beauty and, most of all, with love. Toby was born on May 6, 1939. She grew up in Keene
 WEISS--Blanche. On May 19, 2005, at the age of 91. Beloved wife of Stephan, who predeceased her in 1998. She is survived by her children, Lawrence of New York City and Erica (Harry) Marsden of Ann Arbor, Michigan, and her grandchildren, Adam and Peter. A memorial service will be held Sunday
 BLUESTONE--Gladys (Goodman). Died January 2, 2006. Beloved wife of the late George C. Bluestone. She is survived by sons, Stephen L., Washington, D.C., and Robert J., Stamford, CT., daughter Barbara Bluestone Heller, New York, brother Donald Goodman, Allentown, PA., and grandsons, Zachary, 
 BUDARZ -- Camille Antoi nette. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with great sorrow the untimely passing of the American pianist Camille Antoinette Budarz, during a flight in route to Florida on December 21, 2005 at the age of 70. Camille Budarz was a beloved member of our Steinway Artist f
 GREENBAUM--Irene Blaser. Of Washington D.C., Palm Beach, and New York City, died January 4, 2006 after a long illness. She is survived by her children, Constance Rubin (Carl Wisotsky) and Martin (Ronna) Blaser, of New York City, and her grand children Heather (Marc), Lisa, Daniel, Genia, an
 HACKETT--Maureen Patricia (nee Durkin), 72. Of Lake Placid and Staten Island, NY, formerly of Ridgefield, CT on January 2, 2006. Brooklyn NY native. Survived by her husband Joseph R. Hackett, two daughters, Dawn Hackett Miner and Trez Hackett, son Brian Hackett, two brothers, Martin Durkin 
 JAFFE -- Rona. Family, friends and colleagues deeply mourn the passing of celebrated novelist and philanthropist Rona Jaffe, of New York City, in London on December 30, 2005, at age 74. She graduated from Radcliffe in 1951 at age 19. In 1958, at age 26, Rona's debut novel ''The Best of Ever
 KEENE--Constance. The Leschetizky Association deeply regrets the passing of its beloved Vice President and friend. Her unfailing generosity and adherence to the highest standard of pianistic excellence were a mainstay of the Association's activities. We extend deepest condolences to her fam
 KELLEY -- Gertrude. Of Haverford, PA. formerly residing at Southbury, CT. and Belle Harbor, NY passed away peacefully at the age of 94 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital. Beloved mother of George Kelley Jr. Bryn Mawr, PA and Arlene Winer of Scarsdale, NY. Adored grandmother of Ellen
 MARKS--Joyce, 84. Went into rest on December 30, 2005. Survived by her sister Patricia Stewart and also her brother-in-law Dr. Edward Stewart and their children Scott, Rachel and Ralph and many great nieces and nephews who all loved her very much. She was predeceased by her parents William 
 MUTTERPERL--Gail, (AKA Alison Gale), aged 37, tragically on December 31, 2005. Beloved daughter of Charles and Carol, loved so much by her sister, Lori Bosses, adoring aunt of Amanda and Brian. Cherished by all her family members and special friends she'll be remembered for her compassion, 
 NUSSBAUM--Toby A. Age 66, died January 3, 2006 in New York after a lengthy struggle with pancreatic cancer. To the very end, she lived her life to the fullest, with grace, with dignity, with courage, with beauty and, most of all, with love. Toby was born on May 6, 1939. She grew up in Keene
 RUBIN -- Emily. Beloved mother of Rosina and Lisa. Nana of Zachary. ''Other mother'' of Jeff and Carl. Aunt of Adam, Marian, and Louisa. Adopted mom of Gary, Annie and Barbara. Confidante and supporter of many. Died at home peacefully, at the age of 84, evening of January 3, 2006. Danced wi
 SANJOUR--Hazel. On January 4, 2006. Beloved mother of Richard and Robert (Sandy) and Carol. Grandmother of Billy. She will always be remembered and loved by all.       
 ZAIMAN--Shirley A. Of NYC, died on January 1, 2006. Born in Hartford, CT she graduated from the University of Connecticut, attended the UCONN Law School and the NYU Institute of Taxation. Shirley served as Chief Clerk of US Bankruptcy Court for the State of Connecticut for ten years in addi
 COSTA - GREENSPON -- Mur iel. It is with profound sadness that City Opera notes the passing of one of its most esteemed alumni and best friends. As a member of our company for over 30 years Muriel created some of the most vibrant and memorable characters in our opera repertory, in a wide va
 BERSE -- Sylvia Levinson. Age 84, died January 4, 2006 surrounded by her loving family after losing a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late William Levinson. Cherished mother and best friend of Debbie, Jane and Bonnie. Adored grandmother of Whitney, Josh and William Hurwit
 BUDARZ -- Camille Antoi nette. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with great sorrow the untimely passing of the American pianist Camille Antoinette Budarz, during a flight in route to Florida on December 21, 2005 at the age of 70. Camille Budarz was a beloved member of our Steinway Artist f
 EPSTEIN--Rita. The Officers and Members of the Board of Governors of the Jewish Home at Rockleigh, Russ Berrie Home for Jewish Living, note with profound sorrow the passing of Rita Epstein, wife of our Past President and Board member Carl Epstein who currently serves as President of the Jew
 FEIL--Gertrude (nee Cohen). Beloved mother of Marilyn, Stanley, Judy, Harvey, Carole, Jeffrey and Lee. Grandmother of 12 and greatgrandmother of 12. Her love and devotion will be missed forever. Services on Friday, January 6 at 11:30 A.M., Temple B'nai Sholom, 100 Hempstead Avenue, Rockvill
 GREEN--Ray. Of 333 West 57th Street, Manhattan, died on January 5, 2006. She was 85 years old. She was the beloved mother of Lynn and Barbara, the loving motherin-law of Robert, and the devoted aunt of Shelley, Warren, and the late Harry. A legal secretary for 30 years, she began working wi
 JAFFE - Rona. Family, friends and colleagues deeply mourn the passing of celebrated novelist and philanthropist Rona Jaffe, of New York City, in London on December 30, 2005, at age 74. She graduated from Radcliffe in 1951 at age 19. In 1958, at age 26, Rona's debut novel ''The Best of Every
 KALIKOW--Pearl B. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Devoted mother of Laurie and Asher Platt and Edward and Gwen Kalikow. Beloved grandmother of Allison, Jordan and Samantha, and Daniel Platt, Gregory and Stephanie Kalikow. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, 10AM Fr
 KELLEY - Gertrude. Of Haverford, PA. formerly residing at Southbury, CT. and Belle Harbor, NY passed away peacefully at the age of 94 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital. Beloved mother of George Kelley Jr. Bryn Mawr, PA and Arlene Winer of Scarsdale, NY. Adored grandmother of Ellen 
 NUSSBAUM--Toby. With the passing of Toby Nussbaum the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty has sustained a major loss. Toby was a transformational presence on our board. Her insights on helping the needy, coupled with her humility, were a guiding force in our daily endeavor to make the wo
 SANTACREU--Melissa Ann, 36. Of Orlando, FL, a communications professional, passed away January 2nd. Survived by her husband Jean-Michel, son Mateo, stepdaughters Allison and Michelle, parents Jeffrey and Marian Posdamer and brother Neal. Services were held.       
 WEINSTEIN--Ruth, 88. Formerly of New York, resident of Deerfield Beach, FL. passed away January 4, 2006. Ruth for many years was Principal of Public Schools in Bronx, NY. She is survived by loving sons Michael of Florida and Robert (Lois) of Illinois; cherished grandchildren, Cheryl, Leslie
 WOLLMAN--Raye. Born in NY and died in Hollywood, FL at the age of 99. Beloved wife of the late Max B. Wollman. Devoted mother of Barbara Geist, Mitchell Wollman and Betty Usdan. Loving motherin-law of Nancy Wollman and Herman Geist. Grandmother of nine and great-grandmother of 18. She had a
 DINKES--Linda, on January 5, 2006. Beloved wife of William for over 40 years. Loving mother of Jill and Daniel Efron, Jodi and Mark Hurwitz and Jamie and Scott Berger. Adoring grandmother of Sidney, Amanda, Zachary, Maddy and Jordan. Devoted daughter of Tobie Plofsky. Most loyal friend to a
 GILDER -- Britt - Marie. On January 1, after a battle with throat cancer and emphysema. Born Britt-Marie Lagerljung to Eddy Ljungren and Erik Adam Larsson in Stockhom in 1929, Mrs. Gilder earned prizes in English and German at her Swedish Gymnasium. She emigrated to the United States in 195
 GUTENPLAN--Estelle. On January 6, 2006. Loving wife of Marty. Loving daughter of Pasquelina Gangemi. Devoted mother of Donna, Paul, and Ginger. Cherished grandmother of Ava, Andrew, Alexandra, Amanda, Marley, Gabrielle, Zach, Michael, Jason and Adam. Loving sister of Elaine Perri. She will 
 KADE--Kathryn M. Of Westhampton Beach, N.Y. formerly of Manhasset, N.Y. passed away peacefully at the age of 82. Loving wife of her late husband Charles. Beloved mother of Kevin G. Kade, Noel Foley, Colleen Murphy, Regina Keckeisen and Thomas Kade. Mother-in-law of Ellen kade, Edward J. (Ki
 Muriel Costa-Greenspon, a mezzo-soprano who was a fixture at the New York City Opera for 30 years, died on Dec. 26 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 68. Her death was due to natural causes, said her son, Stefano Costa. A reliable character mezzo, Ms. Costa-Gree
 CREGO -- Jean Elizabeth. Died at her home in New Canaan, CT on December 12 after a brief illness. Born October 7, 1910 in Brooklyn, NY, she was the only child of Martin Henry and Meta Meyer Crego. A graduate of Berkeley Institute in Brooklyn, she earned a B.A. from Vassar College in 1932, a
 DINKES--Linda, on January 5, 2006. Beloved wife of William for over 40 years. Loving mother of Jill and Daniel Efron, Jodi and Mark Hurwitz and Jamie and Scott Berger. Adoring grandmother of Sidney, Amanda, Zachary, Maddy and Jordan. Devoted daughter of Tobie Plofsky. Most loyal friend to a
 EPSTEIN--Rita E. Of Teaneck, NJ on January 3 at The Jewish Home at Rockleigh. Survived by her husband of 55 years Carl, daughters Norie and Judy, son-in-law Eric and grandsons Michael and Zachary. She was the perfect wife, mother and grandmother and enriched the lives of all who knew her. S
 FEIL - Gertrude. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and benefactor, Gertrude Feil. Generous supporter of the Medical College for over two decades, Mrs. Feil and her family established the Gertrude and Louis Feil Scholarship, the Yvette and Seymour Feil Prize in Medicine, an
 GILDER -- Britt - Marie. On January 1, after a battle with throat cancer and emphysema. Born Britt-Marie Lagerljung to Eddy Ljungren and Erik Adam Larsson in Stockhom in 1929, Mrs. Gilder earned prizes in English and German at her Swedish Gymnasium. She emigrated to the United States in 195
 GITLIN--Jane Samuels. Formerly of Roslyn, NY, died after a prolonged illness, fought with optimism, on January 6th. Daughter of Sylvia Samuels Firestone and Nathan Samuels, she was predeceased by her husband Buz (Alan). She is survived by her adored daughter Nikki Kranzler (Scott), Alex Buz
 GUTENPLAN--Estelle. On January 6, 2006. Loving wife of Marty. Loving daughter of Pasquelina Gangemi. Devoted mother of Donna, Paul, and Ginger. Cherished grandmother of Ava, Andrew, Alexandra, Amanda, Marley, Gabrielle, Zach, Michael, Jason and Adam. Loving sister of Elaine Perri. She will 
 HABERMANN--Eva. Died in Walnut Creek, CA, at the age of 91, of pancreatic cancer. Born in Hamburg, Germany, and longtime resident of Manhattan and Water Mill, NY. She is survived by her husband Fred Habermann, her daughter Joann Habermann, M.D., her sister Margaret Sichel and her brother Jo
 KADE--Kathryn M. Of Westhampton Beach, N.Y. formerly of Manhasset, N.Y. passed away peacefully at the age of 82. Loving wife of her late husband Charles. Beloved mother of Kevin G. Kade, Noel Foley, Colleen Murphy, Regina Keckeisen and Thomas Kade. Devoted sister of Patricia Dempsey. Mother
 KALIKOW--Pearl B. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Devoted mother of Laurie and Asher Platt and Edward and Gwen Kalikow. Beloved grandmother of Allison, Jordan and Samantha, and Daniel Platt, Gregory and Stephanie Kalikow. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, 10AM Fr
 KOSSOFF--Laura. Beloved wife of Morty, devoted mother to Phyllis and Sharon and her beloved sons-in-law, Joel and Henry. Grandmother of Andrew. She was our friend and we will miss her. Wendy and Mike Nirenberg       
 LEVINE--Frances, February 18, 1916-January 1, 2006. Our beloved mother, grandmother and great-grandmother, passed away leaving us without our head cheerleader and maven on life, love and politics. Now she is with her beloved Irving and we'll just have to listen harder to hear her pearls of 
 LIVESEY--Ruth Perry. Died January 9, 2006, Goshen, NY. Born February 8, 1913, New Rochelle, NY. Radcilffe College, 1935 B.A., Cum Laude. First husband, Leslie G. Schaumann. Second husband, 1971, Herbert B. Livesey. Trade Association Manager for the National Institute of Diaper Services and 
 McGILL--Claire. Claire Delano Whitmore McGill died on December 5, 2005, at her daughter's home in Asbury Park NJ. Beloved mother, grandmother, aunt and friend, Claire is remembered for her intellect, wit and sense of humor. Outspoken, always spirited and a valued advocate, her courage inspi
 PETER -- Margaret Earle. Daughter of the late Walter and Charlotte Earle of NYC, widow of Francis Peter of San Francisco, died December 30 in Hartford, CT. Born in 1920 Margaret attended the Chapin School in NYC, and graduated from Milton Academy in MA. After receiving certification in musi
 ROTHENBERG--Sylvia Warren (nee Penzick). December 19, passed away peacefully in her Marlboro, NJ home. Beloved wife of Tom and the late Cliff Warren. Devoted mother, grandmother and sister. Reading teacher, NYC Bd. of Ed, Dist. 21 (retired). Her quiet strength will be sorely missed. Contrib
 WEISS--Ruth (nee Kramer), 87. Of Manhattan died peacefully at Mt. Sinai Hospital on January 19, surrounded by her loved ones. Beloved wife of the late Abraham S. Weiss. Loving mother of Wendy (Joel) Greenberg and Debra (Laurence) Weinberg. Adored grandmother of Victoria (Barry), Andrew (Mon
 DONALDSON - Constance. Formerly of Atlantic City, died in Ventura, CA on Friday, December 23. Her husband of 63 years and her children were at her bedside. Constance's intelligence and humor enriched all those who knew her. A memorial service will be held in East Hampton, L.I. on February 1
 PARCELLS - Elizabeth, 54. Coloratura soprano, died of cancer on December 29, 2005 at her home in Michigan. In 1977, she won the Pro Musicis International Award and performed 23 recitals under their sponsorship. For 30 years, she performed in opera productions in Europe and America, and shar
 BROWN -- Lenore Wasser man (nee Robinson) died on January 7, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Wasserman. Devoted mother of Jim and Jeffrey Wasserman, and Ellen Toby. Cherished grandmother of Sara Tobias, Jane and Hugo Wasserman. Services to be held at Riverside Chapel, Fleetwood, NY. I
 GARFINKEL--Lillian. 80, January 7, 2006. Beloved wife of Jack for 55 years. Loving mother of Barbara (Vernon) and Richard. Devoted sister to Beverly. Her loving ways and grace will be missed by all. Visiting 6-8 PM Monday. Services 11:30 AM, Tuesday at IJ Morris, Brooklyn.       
 GILDER -- Britt - Marie. On January 1, after a battle with throat cancer and emphysema. Born Britt-Marie Lagerljung to Eddy Ljungren and Erik Adam Larsson in Stockhom in 1929, Mrs. Gilder earned prizes in English and German at her Swedish Gymnasium. She emigrated to the United States in 195
 GOLDSCHEID--Gloria. January 6, 2006. Is mourned by her husband Sherman, sisters Edie and Lydia, daughters Julie and Susan, and in-laws Penny and Marc, whose lives were enriched by her compassion, taste, integrity, humor and fierce sense of social justice. Donations may be made in her name t
 GUTENPLAN--Estelle Austi. On January 6, 2006. Loving wife of Marty. Loving daughter of Pasquelina Gangemi. Devoted mother of Donna, Paul, and Ginger. Cherished grandmother of Ava, Andrew, Alexandra, Amanda, Marley, Gabrielle, Zach, Michael, Jason and Adam. Loving sister of Elaine Perri. She
 WEIR--Jean Crawford. Of Bronxville, NY, on January 6, 2006, aged 84. Devoted wife for 58 years of Richard B.; loving mother of William J. (Rose), David A. (Bonnie), and Nancy Weir Stombaugh (Kenneth). Beloved grandmother of Jennifer (Brian) George, Natalie (Daniel) Faris, and Janelle, Elise
 ABBE--Fanny. The Independence Residences, Inc. family joins in mourning the loss of Fanny Abbe, mother of longtime Board member Carol Grimaldi and grandmother of an IRI consumer. May her family be comforted by the knowledge that she lived a long, vital life surrounded by the people she love
 ACKERMAN--Kitty. January 9, 2006. Adoring wife to Martin, dear mommy to Lori and Jayni. Wonderful grandma to Irene, Jordan Rose, Grant and Grace. Loving sister to Lynne and Maxine. Special stepmom to Linda and David and trusted friend to many. Avid golfer, tennis player, world traveler, den
 BELMONT--Claudine. Of New YOrk, died on Monday, January 9, 2006 at home, surrounded by her loving family, at the age of 71. She is survived by her husband Francis, her mother Colette Bloch, children Vivian Belmont-Rosenfield (Jason) and Steven Belmont (Waifong) and grandchildren Amelia and 
 FEIL--Gertude. On behalf of our entire organization, we wish to express our heartfelt sympathy to the entire Feil family on the passing of Gertrude. She will be missed. Newmark Knight Frank       
 GARFINKEL--Lillian. 80, January 7, 2006. Beloved wife of Jack for 55 years. Loving mother of Barbara (Vernon) and Richard. Devoted sister to Beverly. Her loving ways and grace will be missed by all. Visiting 6-8 PM Monday. Services 11:30 AM, Tuesday at IJ Morris, Brooklyn.       
 GROH--Kathleen Marie. Age 54 of Mastic, NY suddenly on January 7, 2006. Beloved daughter of the Hon. Robert T. Groh of Quogue, NY. Loving mother of Anne Law and mother-in-law of James Law of East Moriches, NY. Predeceased by her loving mother. Anne Marie Groh (nee Conlin), brother, Robert G
 HAFT--Phyllis (nee Ginsburg) on January 8, 2006. Beloved wife of William. Loving companion to Bixbie. Funeral services private. Contributions in her memory to Hewlett Hadassah. $(6$)HAFT--Phyllis. A wonderful and gracious woman. We will love and miss you forever. Jill and Alfred, St
 HAWLEY--Alethea W., 72. Of New Canaan, CT, died Sunday, January 8, 2006, at her home. Born February 18, 1933, in New York, NY, she was the daughter of the late William R. and Florence McHugh Wood. She was a graduate of Rosemary Hall and Bennett Junior College. Mrs. Hawley was a member of St
 KATZ--Esther. The New York Metropolitan Region of the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism mourns the loss of Esther Katz, beloved wife of our past president Harry S. Katz. Beloved mother and grandmother. May her beloved family be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Jerry I. Klibanoff
 BELMONT - Claudine. You were a beautiful, caring person who epitomized SavoirFaire. You inspired your family and friends with your goodness and courage. Our condolences to Frances and the family. Heavenly rest, dearest Claudine. In sadness. Joy and Walter Samuels $(6$)BELMONT--Claud
 GOLDBERG--Billie, age 74, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Oceanside, N.Y. Beloved wife of Harvey. Beloved mother of Michael & Laurie Goldberg, Neil Goldberg, Susan & Steven Friend, David & Jodi Goldberg. Billie, lovingly known as ''Baba,'' was a devoted grandmother of ten & great-grandmot
 GONZALES--Marlene Stokes. Lovingly remembered by her grateful co-op. Heartfelt condolences to husband Gilbert.       
 GROH--Kathleen Marie. Age 54 of Mastic, NY suddenly on January 7, 2006. Beloved daughter of the Hon. Robert T. Groh of Quogue, NY. Loving mother of Anne Law and mother-in-law of James Law of East Moriches, NY. Predeceased by her loving mother. Anne Marie Groh (nee Conlin), brother, Robert G
 PIRONE--Mary I. The Board of Directors, officers, and staff of Group Health Incorporated (GHI) and GHI HMO mourn the passing of Mary Pirone, devoted mother of Frank Branchini, GHI President. Mrs. Pirone is survived by four children, 10 grandchildren, and 12 great grandchildren. We extend ou
 POPKIN--Evelyn. On January 10, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Jack, cherished mother of Michael (Joan) & Rosalie (Robert), devoted grandmother of Eric and Max. Her selflessness and tenderness will be missed. Graveside service Thursday 1 PM at Sharon Gardens, Valhalla, NY.       
 HALBRIGHT -- Wilhelmine ''Willie'', nee Goldschmidt, of Teaneck. Died peacefully on January 9, at age 80. Loving wife of the late Edward Egon and devoted mother of Rita and Ron. A registered nurse for 50 years, Willie gave her life to the care of others and creating community. Many remember
 MOORE -- John McDonald. January 11, 1919-Sept. 14, 1999 ''O, what her teacher taught her, the many things, and what stands printed in roots and long difficult stems: she sings it, she sings!'' R.M. Rilke       
 Birgit Nilsson, the Swedish soprano with a voice of impeccable trueness and impregnable stamina, died on Dec. 25 in Vastra Karup, the village where she was born, the Stockholm newspaper Svenska Dagbladet reported yesterday. She was 87. A funeral was held yesterday at a church in her
 ABRAMS -- Philip Coleman. January 10, 2006. Dear husband and friend of Leonia. Loving father of Susan Butler and her husband, Jay, and the late Maggie Townsend. Cherished grandfather of Bill, Liza, Meagan and Jared and great grandfather of Luiza, Cecelia and Marcello. Loving uncle of Andrea
 GROH--Kathleen Marie. Age 54 of Mastic, NY suddenly on January 7, 2006. Beloved daughter of the Hon. Robert T. Groh of Quogue, NY. Loving mother of Anne Law and mother-in-law of James Law of East Moriches, NY. Predeceased by her loving mother. Anne Marie Groh (nee Conlin), brother, Robert G
 KAREL--Susan. At 89 on January 11, 2006. Predeceased by her loving husband, Edi. Cherished mother of Helen and her husband, Neal Dorman. Devoted Nana of Karen and her husband, Todd Kipnes and Debbie and her fiance, Alex Grishman. Services Friday 1:30 at Temple Beth El, 220 South Bedford Rd,
 MARVIN--Eleanor. On January 9, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Ralph T. Heymsfeld and Earl Marvin. Devoted mother of David, Jeremy, Joel and Daniel Heymsfeld and stepmother of Peter & Benjamin Marvin and Elizabeth Bruce. Cherished grandmother of Ralph, David, Catherine, Thomas & Margaret Hey
 NILSSON--Birgit. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of Birgit Nilsson, one of the greatest sopranos ever to sing on our stage. As Brnnhilde in Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle, she reigned supreme for many years, and the power and beauty of her voice also made her ideal for many of the leading 
 PIRONE--Mary I. The Board of Directors, officers, and staff of Group Health Incorporated (GHI) and GHI HMO mourn the passing of Mary Pirone, devoted mother of Frank Branchini, GHI President. Mrs. Pirone is survived by four children, 10 grandchildren, and 12 great grandchildren. We extend ou
 POPKIN--Evelyn. On January 10, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Jack, cherished mother of Michael (Joan) & Rosalie (Robert), devoted grandmother of Eric and Max. Her selflessness and tenderness will be missed. Graveside service Thursday 1 PM at Sharon Gardens, Valhalla, NY.       
 SCHIFF--Mollie. A wonderful, unique person, has left us. She was a paragon in all of her life's roles: as wife to her beloved Saul; as loving mother to her three daughters Barbara, Carole and Simone and her two sons-in-law, Jim and Roger; as adoring grandmother to Steven, Ann and Reid, Rick
 WILDMAN--Edna. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Edna Wildman, whose dedicated years of service to the New York Jewish community as executive director of the Kings Bay YM-YWHA has profoundly impacted millions of lives. We extend o
 GRIFFITH - Caroline. The Board and Owners of 25 East End Avenue regret the passing of our long-time neighbor and dear friend. To the entire Griffith family we extend our heartfelt condolences. We will all miss her.       
 BELMONT - Claudine. The Board of Directors, Staff and Members of Community Access offer our condolences and love to Francis, Steven and the entire Belmont family. Claudine was a tireless advocate for people with disabilities and gave generously of her time, talent and resources to improve t
 CHERNOW--Valerie. January 12, 2006. My wife was a woman of rare beauty, elegance, and grace, a warm and radiant presence in many lives. Although supremly accomplished--she was an expert linguist, a gifted sculptor, a fine teacher at New York City Technical College, a mentor in volunteer pro
 KAREL--Susan. At 89 on January 11, 2006. Predeceased by her loving husband, Edi. Cherished mother of Helen and her husband, Neal Dorman. Devoted Nana of Karen and her husband, Todd Kipnes and Debbie and her fiance, Alex Grishman. Services Friday 1:30 at Temple Beth El, 220 South Bedford Rd,
 LOPATIN--Ruth. Passed away on January 12th after a brief illness. Beloved sister of Betty Karsh, stepmother of Dr. Robert Lopatin, cousin, sister-in-law, cherished friend. Tireless in her charitable endeavors. Service on Sunday, January 15, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amster
 SAFIR--Gladys. On Thursday, January 12, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Marshall Safir; devoted mother of Peter (Ellen) Safir, Andy (Maralee Beck) Safir and Ken (Susan Sidlauskas) Safir; cherished grandmother of Zack, Jesse, Erika, Emma, Miranda Safir, Archie and Roland Smart; sister-in-law 
 SCHAFFER--Inez, 90. Formerly a Saks Fifth Avenue buyer & department manager. Survived by her husband, Jack Schaffer, and her sister, Muriel Golden.       
 LOPATIN--Ruth. Passed away on January 12th after a brief illness. Beloved sister of Betty Karsh, stepmother of Dr. Robert Lopatin, cousin, sister-in-law, cherished friend. Tireless in her charitable endeavors. Service on Sunday, January 15, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amster
 SCHLOSS--Herta. On January 12, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Moritz. Loving mother of Ruth Stanton, adoring grandmother of Oliver and Liz Stanton, dear great grandmother of Alexandra and Bradley. She will be deeply missed by her family and her dear friend Elizabeth. Graveside services were
 WILNER--Lillian. Of Great Neck, NY on January 13, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Julius. Cherished mother of Linda (Gerard) Post and Wendy Belkin. Adored grandmother of Stacie, Brett, Brook, Nicole and Danielle and great-grandmother of Benjamen, Sam, Jack, Charlie and Jack. Services Sunday,
 BROWN--Helen Marie, lifetime resident of New York City, graduate of Hunter College, President and Executive Director of the CBS Company Foundation and esteemed mentor and colleague to generations of philanthropy professionals, died December 29th, 2005 at home in Manhattan. The daughter of J
 CHERNOW--Valerie. A beautiful woman with a keen intelligence, a sense of humor and intergrity, kind and gentle. She had a presence. We will miss her. Ann and Steve Andors       
 LOPATIN--Ruth. Passed away on January 12th after a brief illness. Beloved sister of Betty Karsh, stepmother of Dr. Robert Lopatin, cousin, sister-in-law, cherished friend. Tireless in her charitable endeavors. Service on Sunday, January 15, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amster
 SAFIR--Gladys. On Thursday, January 12, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Marshall Safir; devoted mother of Peter (Ellen) Safir, Andy (Maralee Beck) Safir and Ken (Susan Sidlauskas) Safir; cherished grandmother of Zack, Jesse, Erika, Emma, Miranda Safir, Archie and Roland Smart; sister-in-law 
 SCHLOSS--Herta. On January 12, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Moritz. Loving mother of Ruth Stanton, adoring grandmother of Oliver and Liz Stanton, dear great grandmother of Alexandra and Bradley. She will be deeply missed by her family and her dear friend Elizabeth. Graveside services were
 SIMARD -- Jacqueline ''Jackie'', nee Levasseur. Peacefully at home in Montreal on January 10, 2006, beloved wife of Leon Simard, loving mother of Rosanne and cherished grand-mother of Claire and Henri Heusdens. She also leaves to mourn several relatives and friends in Canada, the United Sta
 SOSNIAK--Lauren A. Of Redwood City, CA, died January 3, 2006, after a brave fight with cancer. Lauren was a well-published and much loved Professor of Education at San Jose State University in California. She earned her Ph.D in Education at the University of Chicago. At the time of her deat
 SPITALNIK - Irit. Devoted wife to Michael, loving mother of Maya, cherished friend to many. We were blessed to have her in our lives. Services 12 noon, January 15th, at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Ave, corner of 91st St.       
 STOKES--Hope Procter, age 88, at her home ''Orleton Farm'' in Stockbridge, MA, January 11, 2006. Widow of the late Anson Phelps Stokes, Jr., an Episcopal Bishop of Massachusetts. Born in NYC, February 23, 1917. Survived by daughters Carol S. Fremont-Smith of Seal Harbor, ME, Mary E. Stokes 
 SWEENEY--Kathleen. The Institute for Community Living mourns the passing of our good friend and visionary, and extends our deepest condolences to her daughter, Tracy. For over four decades of public service, Kathy improved the lives of disabled people and contributed significantly to the gr
 WILDMAN--Edna. The Board of Directors and staff of the Kings Bay YM-YWHA mourn the passing of Edna Wildman who served as Executive Director of the Y for 24 years until her retirement in 2004. Edna was a highly respected member of the Jewish Community Center field. She was a mentor and confi
 WILNER--Lillian. Of Great Neck, NY on January 13, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Julius. Cherished mother of Linda (Gerard) Post and Wendy Belkin. Adored grandmother of Stacie, Brett, Brook, Nicole and Danielle and great-grandmother of Benjamen, Sam, Jack, Charlie and Jack. Services Sunday,
 LIEBERMAN WEKSEL BLATT--Alice. June 30, 1911January 10, 2006. She was amazing, inspirational and tough. She outlived two sisters, three husbands and a special boyfriend. An economics teacher, financial whiz, avid tennis player, golfer, Bridge Master, she evidenced a positive attitude, livin
 Shelley Winters, who once described her life as a ''rocky road out of the Brooklyn ghetto to one New York apartment, two Oscars, three California houses, four hit plays, five Impressionist paintings, six mink coats and 99 films,'' died yesterday. She was 83, although some sources say she wa
 KESTEN--Claire. Peacefully, in hospital, in her 83rd year. Leaving behind her son, daughter, son-in-law, three grandchildren, grandson-inlaw. Loving daughter, wife, mother and grandmother. There is never enough time.       
 LEVY--Beatrice G. Died peacefully on Saturday Jan 14th in her 98th year with family at her side. She had a great run: taught for many years, painted beautifully, traveled the world extensively with her late husband, Nat (Sid to some) and was surrounded by close and loving family. In her own
 MAIER--Martha. Died peacefully in her home in Palm Beach, at age 102. Beloved wife of the late Herbert Maier. Loving mother to Ruth Baer and Marguerite Rothschild, devoted grandmother to Arthur and Benji, Richard and Barbara, Michael and Cecile, Andrew and Carol. Greatly adored great-grandm
 MINIKES--Kate. On January 14th, at the age of 86. In memory of my mother, in her days, such a talented, capable, and unselfish woman, who never asked anything of others. If you needed something fixed--''just ask Kitty, she'll do it.'' A devoted wife to our late father Jack and his constant 
 PALITZ--Arlene M. On January 13, 2006, after a two month illness. Survived by stepdaughter Wendy Palitz Robbins and family, stepson Stephen Palitz, cousins Carole Labov and Patricia Feuerstein. Widow of William Palitz. Member of the Art Students League and the National League of American Pe
 Anne Meacham, an actress whose notable stage appearances included roles in the original production of Tennessee Williams's ''Suddenly Last Summer'' and Eva Le Gallienne's 1964 Broadway staging of ''The Seagull,'' died on Thursday at her home in Canaan, N.Y. She was 80. Her death was
 Joan Root, an animal lover and conservationist who collaborated with her husband, Alan, on a series of wildlife documentaries in the 1970's, was killed Friday in Naivasha, Kenya. She was 69. Ms. Root was shot to death by assailants who invaded her lakefront farmhouse, the police sai
 CHERNOW--Valerie, We mourn the loss of Valerie our esteemed, gracious and effective secretary. We send heartfelt sympathies to her husband and our fellow board member Ron Chernow. Sheldon Glabman, MD President Joan Dornemann Artistic Director The Board of International Vocal Arts Institute 
 MINIKES--Kate. On January 14th, at the age of 86. In memory of my mother, in her days, such a talented, capable, and unselfish woman, who never asked anything of others. If you needed something fixed--''just ask Kitty, she'll do it.'' A devoted wife to our late father Jack and his constant 
 SIEGEL--Tema Lynn. On January 15, 2006 at age 64, otherwise known as Miss Party to her family and friends. Tema lived for all the joys and wonders of her family, friends and the world. Her favorite time was when she was travelling, on the beach or dancing the night away. Tema loved you all 
 TOBIAS--Pat Wing. Beloved wife of John and sister of Kip. On January 12. A light has gone out in theater and in the lives of all those Pat brightened with her own. A memorial is planned for March. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to the Salvation Army in her name.       
 TRAINER--Dixie D. Age 69 of Nellysford, VA. Died Sunday January 15, 2006. She is survived by her mother Evelyn T. Harris, her husband William T. Trainer and brother Richard Harris. A funeral will be held Thursday, January 19 at 11 AM. For more information call Wells Sheffield Funeral Chapel
 INDART-GILBERT--Olga. Of Boca Raton, FL, passed away on January 14, 2006. She is survived by her beloved husband Bert Gilbert, and her loving family Amanda, Lynn, Susan, Jane and her grandchildren Marc and Gabriella. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Thurs
 NOWOGRODZKI--Mery Szefner. January 15, 2006. Beloved wife, mother, grandmother, sister and aunt. Her spirit and her humanity will be with us always. Her Loving Family       
 STERNBERG--Rosalind (nee Lux). Died December 21, 2005 at age 86. Devoted wife of the late Isidore. Devoted and beloved mother of Robert, Richard, Judy (Witter). Grandmother to six grandchildren. Her family and many friends made over the years will sorely miss her. Rest in peace.       
 BERNSTEIN -- Ray (Aunt Ruthie), 88, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Jericho, NY, passed away on December 11, 2005. She is survived by her loving husband of 58 years, Milton and adoring children, Dr. Jay Bernstein (Sandy), Dr. Larry Bernstein (Diane), Sandy Lenger (Dr. Steven) and loving g
 DRURY--Cornelia L. Passed away in the early hours on January 17, 2006. She died peacefully in her sleep. She is survived by her loving husband, Philip, after 44 years of marriage, and her step-son, John Drury, and two grandchildren. She was a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania in 19
 GLADSTONE - Libby. We mourn the death of our adored cousin, whom we loved for her grace and graciousness. Samuel and Sara Gladstone Family       
 GLICKMAN -- Sylvia (nee Foodim). January 16, 2006, of Bala Cynwyd, Pa. Wife of Harvey. Mother of Lisa (Frank) McDonough, Nina (Mehmood) Nathani and Peter Glickman; sister of Richard Foodim, grandmother of Rian, Mikal and Kevan Nathani. Relatives and friends are invited to services Thursday 
 GRAND--Lois. Age 61. Died January 16, 2006 at her home after a lengthy struggle with breast cancer. Despite adverse circumstances, to the very end she lived her life to the fullest with a positive outlook, with strength, dignity, and courage. Beloved wife of Jeffrey, devoted mother of Robbi
 LONDON - Elyssa. Died peacefully at home surrounded by her loving family. Beloved wife of Andrew Weitzer. Adored mother of Samantha and Michaela Weitzer, cherished sister of Roberta Silverstein and Suzanne Corbin, loving daughter of Phyllis and Ira London. Her radiant spirit, incredible det
 MYERS--Bernice Johnson. Born, June 19, 1923, died January 13, 2006. Bernice, known as Bee or Mom to all who loved her, brought her great spirit, strength of mind, and humor to the world. Bee was born with her twin, Helen, in Andersonville, a Scandinavian neighborhood on the North Side of Ch
 SCHLOSS--Herta. The 92nd Street Y board and staff mourn the passing of Herta Schloss, mother of our longtime Director, Ruth Stanton and grandmother to board member, Oliver Stanton. Our hearts and prayers are with the Stanton family. As her life was a blessing, so may her memory be. Michael 
 SIEGEL--Tema Lynn. On January 15, 2006 at age 64, otherwise known as Miss Party to her family and friends. Tema lived for all the joys and wonders of her family, friends and the world. Her favorite time was when she was travelling, on the beach or dancing the night away. Tema loved you all 
 WALKER--Fanny. At 97. January 12, in Manhattan. Beloved mother of Judith Walsh; mother-in-law of Jeremy Walsh; grandmother of Jonathan and Nathaniel, dear sister of the late Tess Blay, Anne Murray and Al Schuss; sister-in-law of Ira Murray, aunt and great aunt of many deeply devoted nephews
 INDART-GILBERT--Olga. Of Boca Raton, FL, passed away on January 14, 2006. She is survived by her beloved husband Bert Gilbert, and her loving family Amanda, Lynn, Susan, Jane and her grandchildren Marc and Gabriella. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St. Thurs
 BERNSTEIN -- Ray (Aunt Ruthie), 88, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Jericho, NY, passed away on December 11, 2005. She is survived by her loving husband of 58 years, Milton and adoring children, Dr. Jay Bernstein (Sandy), Dr. Larry Bernstein (Diane), Sandy Lenger (Dr. Steven) and loving g
 Granoff--Rose. Ten years ago the gentlest woman on earth left us. We can always feel the warmth of her smile. Sons Joel and Gary       
 PAPARO--Sophie, 101. A resident of the Sephardic home, passed away January 17, 2006. She was a devoted wife to Meyer, who is deceased. Sophie lived for all the joys and wonders of her family. Two of her children, Irving & Mildred, are deceased. She is survived by her daughter Rita Elias, 10
 SCHNELL -- Anita. Died peacefully at home on January 17, 2006. She was a wonderful, clever, bright, funny and courageous woman with a lot of spunk. Beloved and devoted wife of Jack, loving and caring mother to Scott and Randi, Paul and Madeleine, Susan and Larry (Rush), adoring and adored g
 STILLMAN--Alice. The membership and the Board of Governors of the Boca Rio Golf Club, Boca Raton, Florida announce with deep regret and sorrow the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, Alice Stillman and extend our sincerest condolences to her family. David C. Bubes, President Boc
 DEVEREAUX -- Kathleen. The Board and staff of Gowanus Canal CDC extend their deepest sympathy to Linda Devereaux, Esq., Vice Chairperson of our Board on the loss of her beloved mother. Michael Ingui, Chairperson Thomas Chardavoyne, Executive Director       
 ASHMAN -- Ruth Barnet. Passed away peacefully at her home in Manhattan on January 18, 2006 at the age of 91. Beloved wife of the late Wilbur C. Ashman, devoted mother of Meredith Schreiber, mother-in-law of Mark Schreiber and grandmother of Jennifer Apfelbaum. A genius at bridge, her wit, h
 AUBRY--Julia Moon, 90, Wife of the late Jules A. Aubry died January 18, 2006. A former resident of New York City she moved to Evergreen Woods, North Branford, CT 12 years ago. She was born in New York City, April 20, 1915 daughter of Hamilton F. and Mary Hotchkiss Andrus. She was a graduate
 DAY--Virginia B., daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Louis D. Day, of Summit, NJ, died January 18, 2006, in Philadelphia, PA. Born December 11, 1929, she was predeceased by a brother, Louis D. Day Jr. and is survived by another brother, Robert M. Day, M.D., of Vero Beach, FL, as well as by a
 GREEFF--Elizabeth D. Of Mill Neck, NY, (104) died peacefully at home on January 15, 2006. Known as Gam or Gamma to her family or Betty to her many friends, she was best known as an energetic wife, devoted mother and adoring grandmother and great-grandmother. For many years she partly owned 
 HANCOX--Clara. March 22, 1918--January 17, 2006. Journalist, trailblazer, mentor, friend. Daughter of Solomon and Sara Meyerson of the Bronx. Clara was a born journalist with strong opinions, tremendous integrity and an innate curiosity about life. She was a pioneer in the menswear industry
 KRAFT--Ruth (nee Jaffee). Age 94, died peacefully in Edison, NJ on Wednesday January 18, 2006. She was a long time resident of Washington Heights, NY. Beloved wife of the late Lionel Kraft, mother of Burton (Andrea), grandmother of Francine Esposito (James), Lisa Luttrell (John) and Michael
 LEITNER--Jean. The Brooklyn Law School community mourns the loss of our friend, Jean Leitner, wife of our beloved colleague, Professor Jerome Leitner. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to Jerry, their children, John Henry, and Joshua, her brother Roy Hagin, and the entire family. Stuart Subo
 BEERMAN - PULLMAN -Rhona, 64. Of Manhattan, formerly of Forest Hills, passed away January 18, 2006. She is survived by her son David. Memorial services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76 Street on Amsterdam Avenue, Sunday, January 22 at 11:15 A.M.       
 ASHMAN -- Ruth Barnet. Passed away peacefully at her home in Manhattan on January 18, 2006 at the age of 91. Beloved wife of the late Wilbur C. Ashman, devoted mother of Meredith Schreiber, mother-in-law of Mark Schreiber and grandmother of Jennifer Apfelbaum. A genius at bridge, her wit, h
 BARROW--Helen, 88. Of NYC, passed away on January 16, 2006. Helen was a pioneer for women in publishing, and rose to be a Vice President at Simon & Schuster before running her own production company for over 20 years. She leaves her sister, Rosalie Barrow Callahan, and was predeceased by he
 GREEFF--Elizabeth D. Of Mill Neck, NY, (104) died peacefully at home on January 15, 2006. Known as Gam or Gamma to her family or Betty to her many friends, she was best known as an energetic wife, devoted mother and adoring grandmother and great-grandmother. For many years she partly owned 
 KOMISAR--Sonia S., DDS, of New York, NY and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, passed away on January 19, 2006 after a courageous battle with a long illness. Dr. Komisar was a pioneering orthodontist and dental educator, and a beloved wife, mother, grandmother, and sister. She was pre-deceased by her 
 NESI--Antoinette. Of Pelham Manor, NY. Died peacefully at home on January 19, 2006 at the age of 92. She was born October 18, 1913 in NYC to Nicholas and Francesca (Capozzoli) Nesi. She graduated from New York University. She was employed as an analyst by the Wall Street firm Madison Fund u
 ROTH--Dale. The Officers and Governors of The Friars Club and the Officers and Directors of The Friars Foundation deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed and longtime staff member Dale Roth. Her unfailing devotion to the members of the Club was well known and she was an invaluable asset to 
 WEISS--Ruth (nee Kramer), 87. Of Manhattan died peacefully at Mt. Sinai Hospital on January 19, surrounded by her loved ones. Beloved wife of the late Abraham S. Weiss. Loving mother of Wendy (Joel) Greenberg and Debra (Laurence) Weinberg. Adored grandmother of Victoria (Barry), Andrew (Mon
 Erica Reiner, an internationally renowned scholar of Assyrian, one of the world's oldest written languages, died on Dec. 31 at her home in the Hyde Park neighborhood of Chicago. She was 81. The cause was lung cancer, according to the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago, 
 ASHMAN -- Ruth Barnet. Passed away peacefully at her home in Manhattan on January 18, 2006 at the age of 91. Beloved wife of the late Wilbur C. Ashman, devoted mother of Meredith Schreiber, mother-in-law of Mark Schreiber and grandmother of Jennifer Apfelbaum. A genius at bridge, her wit, h
 BARROW--Helen, 88. Of NYC, passed away on January 16, 2006. Helen was a pioneer for women in publishing, and rose to be a Vice President at Simon & Schuster before running her own production company for over 20 years. She leaves her sister, Rosalie Barrow Callahan, and was predeceased by he
 CORNISH--Lee. 96, grandmother & cousin, died January 21, 2006. She was loved and she will be missed and not forgotten. Services private.       
 FUNK--Alice Lowenbraun. 69, of Westbury, on Saturday, January 21, 2006. Alice was a retired elementary school teacher in Brentwood. Her second and favorite career was helping to raise her two grandchildren, Zack and Alexander. She had just celebrated her 50th anniversary with her husband Al
 GREEN--Gilberta A. January 18, 2006. Formerly of Mt. Vernon, NY and NYC. She is survived by many nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews. Ms. Green received her bachelors of History at Columbia University. She was instrumental in the development of telecommunications/patents for IT & 
 HANCOX--Clara. March 22, 1918--January 17, 2006. Journalist, trailblazer, mentor, friend. Daughter of Solomon and Sara Meyerson of the Bronx. Clara was a born journalist with strong opinions, tremendous integrity and an innate curiosity about life. She was a pioneer in the menswear industry
 HARGER--Eone Goodenough. 95. Pioneering gerontologist died January 6 in Washington, DC. Born December 28, 1910 in Springfield, SD, former resident of Ridgewood and Annandale, NJ, and Asheville, NC; 1933 Oberlin College graduate; founding director of the New Jersey Division of Aging -first U
 HAWES -- Gerda Margaret (nee Galbraith). 90, of Palm Beach Gardens, FL, passed away on January 17, 2006 at Jupiter Medical Center. Born in Montreal, Canada on January 28, 1915 to George Bullock Galbraith of Glasgow, Scotland and Rose Boyle Galbraith of Chester, England, she had been a longt
 KOMISAR--Sonia S., DDS, of New York, NY and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, passed away on January 19, 2006 after a courageous battle with a long illness. Dr. Komisar was a pioneering orthodontist and dental educator, and a beloved wife, mother, grandmother, and sister. She was pre-deceased by her 
 O'BRIEN--Catherine (nee McMahon). Died January 19, 2006. Native of Co. Clare, Ireland and resident of Riverdale. Survived by her daughter Nataly O'Brien-Lebenz & husband Christopher Lebenz and her son Liam O'Brien and wife Melinda and granddaughter Aine Catherine. Dearest daughter of Nora &
 OSTERWEIL--Shirley H. Of Indian Hill, died suddenly Friday, January 20, 2006 at home. She was 86. Born February 22, 1919 in New York City, daughter of the late Abraham Harrison and Anna Zinsler Harrison. Mrs. Osterweil graduated from Ethical Culture and Fieldston as a teacher of elementary 
 PAGE--Virginia Lou. Jenny was keenly inquisitive, a wise and gifted thinker, avid reader, enthusiastic OU fan, lifelong Democrat, selfless caretaker, and the devoted matriarch of an equally devoted family. Jenny fiercely loved her family and friends. They cherished her and will miss her gre
 POWER--Dorothy 'Dede.' On Sunday January 15 peacefully, in her 94th year, in Ardee, County Louth, Ireland. Born, New York August 1912. Graduated Vassar College 1934. Married the late Eldon Power 1938. Children, Robert, Marily, Derek and Carole. Five grandchildren, four greatgrandchildren.  
 SEKEY - Suzanne. Passed away January 18, 2006, age 90, of kidney failure. A prominent interior designer, she worked with Harold Leeds, I.M. Pei, Marcel Breuer, Richard Meier and others. Her projects included the Paris Theatre, New York; the Caribe Hilton, San Juan, Puerto Rico; Bonniers Ret
 WEISS--Ruth (nee Kramer), 87. Of Manhattan died peacefully at Mt. Sinai Hospital on January 19, surrounded by her loved ones. Beloved wife of the late Abraham S. Weiss. Loving mother of Wendy (Joel) Greenberg and Debra (Laurence) Weinberg. Adored grandmother of Victoria (Barry), Andrew (Mon
 YOUNG -- Chesley Virginia (nee Barnes) of NYC died on January 19, 2006. She graduated from the University of Arkansas and Teachers College Columbia University. Mrs. Young served in the U.S. Army as a Capt. Women's Army Corp. She belonged to the DAR (NYC Chapter), and The Huguenot Society of
 FUNK--Alice Lowenbraun. 69, of Westbury, on Saturday, January 21, 2006. Alice was a retired elementary school teacher in Brentwood. Her second and favorite career was helping to raise her two grandchildren, Zack and Alexander. She had just celebrated her 50th anniversary with her husband Al
 MEILI--Chris N. Of Scarsdale, NY. Died peacefully at home on January 20, 2006, at the age of 103. She was the beloved wife of the late Ernest H. Meili, the mother of Phyllis Chernin and the late Peter G. Meili, the grandmother of Stephen and Anthony Pendas, and the great-grandmother of Sara
 STOLBOF--Mary Elizabeth (Betty). Of Syosset, NY, passed away on January 7, 2006, after a brave battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Stolbof. Loving mother of Paul, Edward, Jesse and Daniel. Dear grandmother of Stephanie, Matthew, Andrew, Henry and Catherine. Sister of Richar
 Joan Maynard, who shepherded the preservation of the remnants of Weeksville, a once-thriving 19th-century community of free blacks in Brooklyn that had faded from maps and memory, died on Sunday at her home in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. She was 77. Her death was confirmed by Pamela Gr
 BERNITT--Yadira. The management, brokers and staff of Prudential Douglas Elliman mourn the passing of our colleague and friend, Yadira Bernitt, who died peacefully on January 18th at Beth Israel Hospital after a long struggle with cancer. Yadira will always be remembered for her courage and
 BRILOFF--Edith M., 88. Loving and beloved wife for 65 years of Abraham J. Briloff, cherished mother of Leonore Briloff and Alice Ebenstein, and grandmother of Julie, devoted sister of Robert Moss and son-in-law William Ebenstein. Died Monday, January 23, 2006. Funeral services at 11 AM, Wed
 BRONFMAN--Andrea. United Jewish Communities and its leadership mourn the untimely death of Andrea Bronfman, beloved wife and partner of UJC's first chair of the Board, Charles Bronfman. She was 61. The Bronfmans have made an indelible mark on Jewish life in Canada, the United States, Israel
 BURNETTE -- Alice Gloster Green. Born January 6, 1943 in Atlanta, GA, died January 21, 2006. She graduated from Wheaton College in Norton, MA. She received a honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from Morehouse School of Medicine. She worked for 42 years in the advancement field and was the Pri
 ENGLE--Hannah. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of Hannah Engle, an exceptional graduate intern and member of the UJA-Federation family whose intelligence, spirit, and passionate devotion to the Jewish community o
 MAYNARD -- Joan Cooper Bacchus. The Trustees and staff of the Weeksville Heritage Center mourn the passing of our Founding Executive Director, a visionary who reclaimed a part of Brooklyn's history to provide a legacy for future generations. Founded as the Society for the Preservation of We
 MICHAELI--Adina. Devoted daughter of the late David and Uschi Michaeli. Loving sister of Jonathan, dear sister-in-law of Dorlee, and adored aunt of Daniel and Talia. Passed away at her home in Manhattan late January 21 at the age of 51. ''Doda Zsa Zsa'' was a special friend to many. She lef
 NENNER--Leatrice (nee Gelfond). Of Cliffside Park, NJ, on January 23, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Jodi and David. Loving grandmother of Andrew and Nicole Nenner. Her memory will be cherished forever. For information, call ''Wien & Wien'' 1-800-322-0533.       
 SPINNER--Vertie E. (Betty). On January 21, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Frank. Loving mother of Kathy, Eileen, Dolores, Francine, Michael, Christopher and the late Ruth and Frank III. Also survived by 5 grandchildren. Memorial Mass Thursday, January 26, 9:30 A.M. St. Bernadette Shrine. Do
 YATES--Margaret Titus, on January 22, 2006 at her home, of natural causes. Beloved wife of Douglas T. Yates, adored mother of Douglas T. Yates Jr. of New Haven, CT, Timothy T. Yates of Rye, NY, and L. Randall Yates and Margaret Yates Thorne, both of New York City. Beloved grandmother of Nat
 CHARLESTON -- Shirley L. (nee Lorber). Devoted wife of the late Jesse. Loving mother of Delci Lev. Adoring grandmother of Jodi L. Berliner and her husband Ian. Beloved great grandmother of Joshua. Graveside funeral service today 1:30 Wellwood Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY.       
 Andrea M. Bronfman, an internationally noted philanthropist, died on Monday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in Manhattan. She was 60 and had homes in Manhattan; Palm Beach, Fla.; and Jerusalem. The police said that Mrs. Bronfman died of injuries she sustained after sh
 BRONFMAN--Andrea (Andy) Morrison. Age 60. Beloved wife of Charles. Loving mother of Jeremy & Marci, Pippa, Tony and Moira, stepmother to Stephen and Claudine, Ellen and Andrew and Dog Mom to Yoffi. Grandmother to Danielle, Scotty, Talia, Lila, Zack and Alexandra. She is also survived by her
 ENGLE - Hannah. NYU's Wagner Graduate School of Public Service and Skirball Department of Hebrew & Judaic Studies mourn the loss of Hannah Engle, a woman of incredible energy, talent and passion. Hannah embodied tikkun olam, the healing of the world, through her work, volunteering, and trav
 GORDON--Elaine I. Died peacefully at home on January 24, 2006. Adored and adoring wife of the late Alvin J. Gordon, M.D. Beloved mother of Melissa (Chris) and Todd (Susan) and cherished grandmother of Camilla, Sam, and Basia. Survived also by her sister Janice Novack, brother-in-law Paul Ki
 GOTTFRIED--Dr. Ethel. Medicine was her passion and her life. Died age 95 after six years in the grip of dementia. Survived by sister Claire, brother Noah, nephews Ben and Noah Jr. and niece Sarabeth Seif. She will be sorely missed.       
 HARNEY - Margaret. With profound sorrow, the Horace Mann School deeply mourns the untimely passing of Margaret Harney, our beloved and esteemed teacher, colleague, friend and Horace Mann parent. A respected member of the Foreign Languages Department for over twenty-five years--a dedicated L
 HOTTE--Mary E. (nee Peets). Of Larchmont and Manhattan, died January 23, 2006, following a brief illness. Survived by her beloved husband, E. Roger Hotte, three daughters, Elise Young, Margaret Jednak, and Clare Bournigal and twelve grandchildren. Visitation Wednesday, January 25 from 2-4 P
 YATES--Margaret Titus, on January 22, 2006 at her home, of natural causes. Beloved wife of Douglas T. Yates, adored mother of Douglas T. Yates Jr. of New Haven, CT, Timothy T. Yates of Rye, NY, and L. Randall Yates and Margaret Yates Thorne, both of New York City. Beloved grandmother of Nat
 SCHWARZSCHILD -- Kathryn (Kitty) Emsheimer. In her 98th year, passed away January 23 in Richmond, Virginia. She was the widow of W. Harry Schwarzschild, Jr. (former Chairman of the Central National Corporation) and the former wife of Laurence C. Leeds (founder of Spear, Leeds & Kellogg). Sh
 BOWDEN--Paula Laurence. Tonight on her birthday, friends will celebrate the extraordinary life of one of the last of the great Broadway babies. Making her debut in 1936 as Orson Welles teenaged leading lady in his ''Horse Eats Hat'' and ''Doctor Faustus,'' Paula created featured roles in th
 BRONFMAN - Andrea. We deeply grieve the untimely passing of Andrea Bronfman, a woman whose life embodied the principles of Zionism and Clal Yisrael. Her creativity and generosity benefited the American Jewish community, the relatives of those who died in the World Trade Center attacks, and 
 FELL--Elizabeth Ann (nee Durham). Of Westhampton Beach, NY, and Stuart, Florida (formerly of Garden City) passed away peacefully at home on January 25. She is survived by her devoted husband of 54 years, Ted. Elizabeth is also survived by her much loved and loving daughter Sabina McCarthy &
 GORDON--Elaine I. Died peacefully at home on January 24, 2006. Adored and adoring wife of the late Alvin J. Gordon, M.D. Beloved mother of Melissa (Chris) and Todd (Susan) and cherished grandmother of Camilla, Sam, and Basia. Survived also by her sister Janice Novack, brother-in-law Paul Ki
 HUNTER--A. Winifred, 89. Of Sparta, NJ, on January 24, 2006. Beloved wife of the late George Hunter. She received a BA from Brooklyn College and an MA from NY University. She was a member of Alpha Delta Pi. She retired after teaching in the HewlettWoodmere School District #       
 MAYNARD - Joan. The Trustees and staff of the Brooklyn Children's Museum mourn her passing. She inspired all who had the privilege of knowing her with her passionate dedication to children and profound belief that understanding the history of our community can illuminate the present and exp
 YATES--Margaret Titus, on January 22, 2006 at her home, of natural causes. Beloved wife of Douglas T. Yates, adored mother of Douglas T. Yates Jr. of New Haven, CT, Timothy T. Yates of Rye, NY, and L. Randall Yates and Margaret Yates Thorne, both of New York City. Beloved grandmother of Nat
 SCHWARZSCHILD -- Kathryn (Kitty) Emsheimer. In her 98th year, passed away January 23 in Richmond, Virginia. She was the widow of W. Harry Schwarzschild, Jr. (former Chairman of the Central National Corporation) and the former wife of Laurence C. Leeds (founder of Spear, Leeds & Kellogg). Sh
 BRONFMAN--Andrea. It is with great sadness that Sesame Workshop mourns the loss of Andrea Bronfman. Together with her husband, Charles, they made major contributions to our Israeli production of Sesame Street. She will be missed by all of us at the workshop and by the many children we were 
 EVEN - SAPHIR - Renee, 95, died January 18, 2006. Greatly admired for her adventurous spirit and business acumen. Will be missed by friends and family. She lived life fully.       
 MAYNARD--Joan. Pratt Institute is proud of Joan Maynard's extraordinary contributions in preserving and gaining recognition for Brooklyn's historic Weeksville neighborhood. Her persistent, inspired efforts led to saving this long forgotten group of cottages that were once the home of 19th c
 McNULTY--Virginia D. Of Rye, NY, formerly of Vero Beach, FL on January 25, 2006. Devoted wife of John to whom she was married for 61 years. Loving mother of Robin Dawson, Susan Dill and Marianne Stoupnitzky. Dear grandmother of eight grandchildren. Mrs. McNulty will be remembered as a warm,
 Nellie Y. McKay, a distinguished scholar and critic who helped secure a place for African-American women in the modern literary canon, died last Sunday at a hospice in Fitchburg, Wis. She was a resident of Madison, Wis., and was believed to have been in her mid-70's. The cause was c
 FRIEDMAN--Rose nee Reich. Late resident of Ossining, NY, died on January 25 in a Westchester nursing home. Her husband Bernard and son Joseph predeceased her. She is survived by her children, Ann and husband Martin Smolin of Croton, New York and William and wife Patricia Friedman of Fair La
 NERENBERG - Nancy. On January 26, 2006. Beloved wife of Howard. Dear sister of Franklin and Bernard Zuckerman. Much loved aunt of many. She will be deeply missed. Service Sunday 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 SITZER--Betty. Devoted wife of Harry and the late Herman Glassman, beloved mother of Leila (Frederick) Zuckerman, Daniel (Iris) Glassman, Diane (Albert) Makhtsier, stepmother to Michael (Paula), Diane (deceased) dear sister of George Moore, adoring grandmother to Sheri, Mitchell, Stacey, He
 BRONFMAN--Andrea. The Washington Institute for Near East Policy mourns the passing of Andrea ''Andy'' Bronfman. A Trustee of the Institute for more than a decade, Andy understood the vital role America needs to play in the pursuit of a secure ArabIsraeli peace and the critical importance of
 BRUESTLE--Vera. The family of The Curtis Institute of Music mourns the loss of its beloved colleague and devoted friend Vera Bruestle. For nearly 20 years, her acumen in both administrative and aesthetic matters confirmed the unique spirit of our conservatory. Miss Bruestle, as she preferre
 DAUBER--Susan. The Board of Governors and the Members of the Seawane Club record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member, Susan Dauber. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her husband Richard and family. Mark Kirschner, President       
 FLORENCE--Estelle. On January 28, 2006, at age 92. Adored wife of the late Lee and loving mother of the late Michael. Cherished sister of Miriam. Most beloved grandmother of David, Diana and Scott, and great-grandmother of Alexandra and Matthew. Dear aunt of Jonathan and Esther, Mattye and 
 FRIEDMAN--Rose nee Reich. Late resident of Ossining, NY, died on January 25 in a Westchester nursing home. Her husband Bernard and son Joseph predeceased her. She is survived by her children, Ann and husband Martin Smolin of Croton, New York and William and wife Patricia Friedman of Fair La
 JACQUES--Marcia. Family, friends, and colleagues mourn the loss of Marcia Jacques. She was 65. She is survived by her mother, Stella Carlos, brother, Tony (Noel) Jacques, and numerous relatives. Born in Jamaica, Jacques worked at Pace University for more than 35 years, starting as a clerk i
 NERENBERG - Nancy. On January 26, 2006. Beloved wife of Howard. Dear sister of Franklin and Bernard Zuckerman. Much loved aunt of many. She will be deeply missed. Service Sunday 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 SALINGER -- Marie Harris. January 13, 2006. Devoted wife of the late James J. Salinger, beloved mother of Peter and Jane Salinger, cherished mother-in-law of Ruth Salinger and William E. Metcalf, and loving grandmother of Lydia and Daniel. Her joy, laughter and zest for life were contagious
 SEGAL--Eudice B. January 10, 2006 at 98. She loved people, literature and nature. She gave her energy to many causes: Social Work at Memorial Sloan-Kettering and many volunteer efforts in progressive schools, libraries, etc. With Jane Jacobs, achieved Landmark status for The Village. She wa
 STEVENS -- Alyce McCoon (Mrs. William H.). Of Saratoga Springs, NY and Delray Dunes, FL. Passed away peacefully at her Florida home on January 23, 2006 surrounded by her family. She is survived by her husband, William H. Stevens, her children Carolyn with her husband Stephen J. West, Pamela
 STILLMAN -- Eugenia Wat ters. Age 86. Died of cancer at home on Friday, January 27, 2006, surrounded by her family. She loved life as a wife, mother, mentor, volunteer, and friend to many. Born and raised in Wilmington, NC, she graduated from St. Mary's College in Raleigh, NC. Worked as a s
 TURKEWITZ - Doris. Died January 26, 2006 at age 77. Daughter of the late Manny and Madeline Turkewitz. Dear devoted cousin and friend to many. Her life was a courageous battle. She will be missed by all who were close to her. We thank Inga, her caregiving companion, for all her love and dev
 Beth Fallon, a political reporter and columnist whose thrice-weekly columns in The Daily News and The New York Post brought an irreverent eye to city life in the 1970's and 80's, died Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 64. She had been in declining health for more th
 Neyda Martinez, a guidance counselor in the Bronx whose efforts to encourage her students to seek a college experience beyond the city was the subject of an article on the Education page on Dec. 28, died Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 54. The cause was cancer, ac
 FLORENCE - Estelle. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her sister Miriam Kaplan and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May her memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Sr. Rabbi Amy A. B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Ros
 McGOWN--Julie (nee Kadin). Died January 28, on her 76th birthday, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. She will be missed by her daughter Pat and her sister Sandy. Rest in peace.       
 SMITH--Lauraine G. 96, of Ft. Lauderdale, FL, passed away on January 26, 2006. Born in St. John, Newfoundland, on March 15, 1909. She came to this area in 1953 from Long Island, NY. She was predeceased by her husband, O. Telfair Smith. Survived by her son, Owen T. Smith and his wife Bernade
 STILLMAN--Eugenia W. 86. Died of cancer at home January 27, surrounded by her family. She loved life as a wife, mother, mentor, volunteer, and friend to many. Born and raised in Wilmington, NC, she graduated from St. Mary's College in Raleigh, NC. Worked as a secretary in Wilmington's shipy
 WILBUR--Mary F. 86. Of Huntington, LI, and Cold Spring, NY. Died January 28, 2006, at her home. Mrs. Wilbur was born in Sharon, CT, on August 8, 1919, to Anna and Peter Flanigan. She was married in 1942 to Dr. Daniel Webster Wilbur III of Rhinebeck, NY, who predeceased her. Her life was dev
 BACKMAN -- Ann (Cover dale), born in 1922, LisbethAnne Niesz was raised on both sides of the CanadianAmerican border. In 1945, she graduated from Emerson College and went with her husband, Miles Coverdale, to live in Fort Worth, TX. In 1951, they moved to Manhasset, NY, where they raised th
 BRONFMAN--Andrea. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Canadian Friends of Yeshiva University are deeply saddened by the tragic and untimely passing of our cherished longtime friend, a world-renowned leader and philanthropist, who with her beloved husband, Charles R. Bronfman, provided gen
 BROWN--Ann. (Reber Carroll Jones) died on the evening of January 26, 2006 at the age of 79, in York Harbor, Maine from lung cancer. She graduated from The Madeira School in 1945 and attended Columbia University. A cover girl model in the late 1940's and early 1950's, a bon vivant of the fir
 BUONO--Michele A. On January 28, 2006. She worked tirelessly for children of NYC at Angel Guardian Home and ACS. Beloved sister of Maria Filorino (Anthony), Joan Belletri (Andrew) and Joseph Buono (Mary). Cherished aunt of Anthony, Michele, Christopher, Alexander, Danielle and Caroline. Vis
 FISHER--Shirley. The Board of Governors of Middle Bay Country Club of Oceanside, NY, on behalf of its membership, wishes to express its sympathy and condolences to the family of its esteemed member, Shirley Fisher. She will be sorely missed.       
 HOFFMAN--Edna. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Hoffman, sister of the late Rose Pearlmutter & Samuel Schnyder, devoted mother of Elaine Morris and Arnold Hoffman, mother-inlaw of Ronald Morris and Judy Hoffman, grandmother of David Morris and Elisheva Urbas, Michael Morris and Willa Padgett
 MAYER--Jeanne C. (nee Goldberg) of Grantham, NH, formerly of West Orange, NJ passed away suddenly on January 28 in Davis, CA. Beloved wife of the late Russell, devoted daughter of the late Frances and Sol Goldberg. Loving mother of Russell Jr., Jody and Tom Martini of Boulder, CO and the la
 PERSKY--Mary E. (Betty). Passed away January 27, 2006 at Arden Courts in Tampa. Betty came to Tampa in 2003 after residing in Naples for several years. She moved to Naples from Pepper Pike, Ohio in 1986 with her late husband, Dr. Lester Persky. She was predeceased by her husband, her parent
 SIMON--Leslie S. Beautiful wife, mother, grandmother. Beautiful daughter, sister. Beautiful friend. Beautiful person. Services ''Temple Sinai'' 1 Engle Street, Tenafly, New Jersey, Tuesday 1 P.M. Contributions to the Susan G. Komen Foundation. $(6$)SIMON--Leslie. What a legacy you h
 STILLMAN--Eugenia W., 86. Funeral at NEW TIME: 3PM on Friday, February 3 at St. James Church, 865 Madison Avenue at 71 St, NYC 10021. $(6$)STILLMAN -- Eugenia Wat ters (Mrs. P. Gordon B. Stillman). The New York Genealogical and Biographical Society notes with sorrow the death of Eug
 WASSERSTEIN--Wendy. The board and staff of Playwrights Horizons mourn the untimely death of our beloved friend and colleague Wendy Wasserstein. As an artist, Wendy's trailblazing candor, her compassionate intelligence, and her indefatigable wit, inspired and stimulated our entire community.
 GIRALDI--Minnie. 2/22/12 to 1/31/05. She had a fabulous smile. She was talented and creative. She loved life and taught us all how to live.       
 Wendy Wasserstein, who spoke for a generation of smart, driven but sometimes unsatisfied women in a series of popular plays that included the long-running Pulitzer Prize winner ''The Heidi Chronicles,'' died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 55 and li
