 ALTAMORE--Suzanne. The dean, faculty, staff, and students of New York Law School mourn the passing of Suzanne Altamore, our colleague and friend, who was in her second year of studies at the Law School. Suzanne was much loved and respected by all who came to know her. Our deepest sympathies
 BURR--Elizabeth Long. September 28, 2003, of Matinicus Island, Maine, formerly of Lloyd Harbor, NY. Beloved wife of the late Robert Page Burr, loving mother of Susan, William, James, Jonathan, Elizabeth, and David. Devoted grandmother of twelve grandchildren. Born Eli zabeth Jaquelin Long, 
 KOLTON--Hilary, 53, died peacefully on September 29th. After a long illness, she passed away at home in the presence of her family. Beloved wife of Robert, mother of Jordan and Joanna, and daughter of Julius Cohen, she is predeceased by her mother, Rosalyn Cohen, and her brother, Lee Cohen.
 SACK--Helen. Of Brooklyn, September 30, 2003. Beloved wife of the late George, dear mother of Judith Weltz and her husband, Allen. Survived by five grandchildren & four great-grandchildren & many loving nieces and nephews.       
 SANDS--Nora Carson, 75, passed away on September 24, 2003. She is survived by her children, Louise OwensPapaceno, Jacqueline Sands O'Connor, and Richard R. Owens, her son - in - law Charles Papaceno, her grandchildren, Benjamin and Christopher O'Connor, and Augustus Papaceno, her brother C.
 TOWNSEND--Felicia T. Died at age 94 on September 27, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Edward Townsend and the late Eduardo Andrade. Mother of Jose E. Andrade and Lydia A. de Sanctis and the late Maria F. Andrade. Mother-inlaw of Malle T. Andrade and Francesco M. de Sanctis. Stepmother of Rosa
 BORITZER -- Rose. The Schwartzberg family mourns the passing of our dear friend Rose Bortizer. Rose was a cherished friend of the family, as well as a longtime trusted partner. Rose was a respected leader in the Long Term Care industry of New York for over 40 years and set the standard for 
 JOSEPH - KORDELL -- Shel ley. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the tragic and untimely death of Shelley Joseph - Kordell, beloved daughter of our dear friends, Burton Joseph, ADL Honorary National Chairman, and Amb. Geri Joseph, ADL Honorary Vice Chairman. Our hearts go out to Burt and Ger
 STARK--Florence formerly Friedlander. On September 30, 2003 in her 91st year. Beloved wife of the late Max Stark and the late Harold Friedlander. Devoted mother of Toby Friedlander Perlman and mother-in-law of Itzhak. Loving grandmother of Noah and Stephanie, Navah and Robert, Leora and Mer
 DUPERIER--Rosa. On Tuesday, September 30, 2003 in Nottingham, England. Sister of the late Hilda Steans. Aunt of Bill Cass and the late Valerie Cass. Rosa is remembered by friends and loved ones on both sides of the Atlantic for her great beauty, generosity and love of life.       
 NAIDECH--Syd. Sutton Place Synagogue records with deep sorrow the passing of our longtime member, benefactor and Trustee. Heartfelt condolences to Syd's beloved son Neil (Ingrid), granddaughter Allison and her devoted sisters. We will miss her dignity and friendship. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Ma
 RUDTKE -- Helga Scharr Weinrib. Food stylist, of Davis Park, F.I., NYC and Medford, NY, on September 30th, 2003. Wife of Andy Rudtke and stepmother and motherin-law of Victoria Rudtke, Jennifer and David Bartholomew, and Christopher and Deborah Rudtke. Sister and sister-in-law of Ralph and 
 STARK -- Florence, whose high energy and continued buoyant spirit made her a mother we admired to our cofounder and co-chairperson, Toby Lynn Perlman, and mother-in-law to Toby's husband, Itzhak. As a dedicated grandmother to five and great-grandmother to two, and friend to many, she commun
 WESSLER -- Margaret M. (Muhlfelder) in N. Andover, MA, on October 3, at her residence, 82, formerly of Albany and Rye, NY. Beloved wife of Stanford Wessler, loving mother of John Wessler and Fredi Harwitz of Andover, MA, Steve Wessler and Beth Nagusky of Litchfield, ME, and Jim Wessler and 
 ACKERMAN--Susan J., died at Rivercrest Nursing Home in Concord, MA. Friday, Sept. 19 from Pancreatic Cancer. She was the daughter of Annette (Gardner) Ackerman Cutler and the late Richard J. Ackerman. After graduating from Harvard she enjoyed a long career in marketing and advertising resea
 DILWORTH--Elizabeth. The Rockefeller University community notes with deep sorrow the loss of our dear friend Bunny Dilworth, beloved spouse of the late J. Richardson Dilworth. Throughout Dick Dilworth's 37 years of dedicated service on our Board of Trustees, Bunny shared his interest in the
 DUFFY--Elaine M. Of Monte Carlo, Monaco, and East Williston, NY. Passed away at her New York home at age 60 on October 3, 2003 after a nearly five year struggle with breast cancer. She was the daughter of Elaine M. Higgins of Lattingtown, NY and the late Thomas L. Higgins. She was born on J
 HEUTLINGER--Fay S. In her 93rd year, Fay died peacefully on September 28th in Boca Raton, FL. She was the mother of Ruth H. and Paul Eisen and Mark and Bonnie Heutlinger; grandmother of Andrew, Jonathan, and Gregg Eisen; great-grandmother of four. Formerly a fashion consultant in Newark and
 HOLLAND--Mrs. Estelle. Of Houston, Texas, died on October 2, 2003. The loving wife, for more than 65 years, of the late George Holland, mother of Ira and Maria, Peter and Merle, grandmother of Matthew, Lizza, John and Kate, great-grandmother of Harris, and a beloved friend to many. She will
 KIRSHON -- Elise. Beloved mother of Ann Claps, grandmother of Giuliana, greatgrandmother of Brandyn, Matthew and Tanner, widow of the late Abraham R. Kirshon. Formerly of New York City died peacefully in her 99th year October 2 in Atlanta, GA. Condolences to Ann Claps, c/o Jewish Funeral Ca
 PENDLETON--Ellen Lindsay. Age 83, on September 30, a lifelong resident of New York, world traveler and survivor, living a full and active life with cerebral palsy. She was predeceased by her parents Everett and Grace Pendleton, and sister Phyllis Bigelow, and survived by her sister Jeanne C
 SMITH--Phyllis W. On October 3, 2003 at age 83 in Albany, NY. Widow of the late John K. Weiss and the late Walter W. Smith. She is survived by her brother Roger Warner, her children Karen Weiss, Robin Weiss, Peter Weiss and Jenifer Weiss, her stepchildren Terence Smith and Catherine Smith O
 TOWNSEND--Felicia T. Died at age 94 on September 27, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Edward Townsend and the late Eduardo Andrade. Mother of Jose E. Andrade and Lydia A. de Sanctis and the late Maria F. Andrade. Mother-inlaw of Malle T. Andrade and Francesco M. de Sanctis. Stepmother of Rosa
 FITZGIBBON--Dorothy Rogers. 91. A resident of Ridgewood, NJ, died peacefully at home on October 3, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Harold J. Fitzgibbon. Loving mother of Mary Ann and Joan Fitzgibbon, both of New York City, and of Margaret Fitzgibbon Watson and her husband Drew Watson, also o
 SKALSKY--Judi. Consultant to International Architecture and Design Community. Judy Skalsky, marketing and communications consultant in New York and Los Angeles has died in her home in the Pacific Palisades from injuries she received in a fall. She is survived by her parents Milton and Rose 
 ANDERBERG--Edward, of Bronxville and Water Mill, and formerly White Plains, NY on October 5. Visitation October 7, 6-8 PM, Christ Church, 17 Sagamore Road, Bronxville. Service Wednesday, October 8, 1 PM Christ Church. Survivors wife, Mary, daughter, Sarah, her husband Joseph Burke, granddau
 CORSI--Francesca. New York City Opera mourns the passing of Francesca Corsi, Principal Harpist of our orchestra for thirty-five years, who passed away in August. She was a valued member of our company, a gifted musician and a good friend who will be remembered with great fondness. Her dedic
 FITZGIBBON--Dorothy Rogers. 91. A resident of Ridgewood, NJ, died peacefully at home on October 3, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Harold J. Fitzgibbon. Loving mother of Mary Ann and Joan Fitzgibbon, both of New York City, and of Margaret Fitzgibbon Watson and her husband Drew Watson, also o
 GASPARI--Contessa Antoinette Francois in Gaspari died peacefully on October 5, at the age of 79, at her home in Vallerana, Italy. Born on June 2, 1924 in Geneva, Switzerland, Toinon was the daughter of Professor Alexis Francois of the University of Geneva and Marthe Francois. She is survive
 GORDON--Helen. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Phyllis (William) and Linda (Sherwin). Loving grandmother of Lauren (Howard) and Steven. Services were held at the Parkside Memorial Chapel, Queens, October 5th, 2003. Contributions in her honor may be made to Park Hills Chap
 RIVKIN--Sylvia W. (nee Webman). On October 5, 2003, beloved wife of Sidney, loving mother to Judy and Barbara, and son-in-law Joel, adoring grandmother and great grandmother. She was quite a dame. Services Wednesday 10 A.M. Plaza Chapel, 91 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 Eleanor Lambert, whose tireless promotion of American fashion gave the industry an international presence and helped to elevate it from rag trade to respectability, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 100. Often referred to as the Empress of Seven
 Lady Donaldson, the first woman to be lord mayor of London in the 800-year history of the office, died on Saturday at a hospice near her family home in Lymington, England. She was 82. For one term in 1983, Lady Donaldson held the highest title of the City of London. In 1981 and 1982
 ADLER--Elaine (Lipton). Of Jenkintown, PA, formerly of New York, died September 29, 2003. Beloved wife of Edward B., mother of Tony and Joe, loving grandmother and sister. Elaine will be remembered as a master potter, for her love of family and an unparalleled approach to life. As she said 
 FINKELSTEIN--Elaine. Beloved wife of Rabbi Ezra Finkelstein. Devoted mother of Dr. Harvey and Miriam Finkelstein, Rabbi Joshua and Elana Gershen Finkelstein and Adina Finkelstein and Marc Legman. Died Monday afternoon, October 6. Sister of Claire Zurbel and sister-inlaw of Ann Samuels. She 
 ISAACSON -- Cecilia. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Cecilia Isaacson. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Bernard, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secr
 TWEEDY--Anne E. (nee Bracken) of Floral Park on October 6, 2003. Beloved wife of James E. Mother of Edwin (Eileen), James (Janet), Thomas (MaryAnn), Anne Marie Brancella (Thomas), Patrick, Timothy (Colleen). Grandmother of 11. Former member Actors Equity & AFTRA appeared on Stage, Radio and
 BARROW--Jenette A. We share the sorrow of our partner, Jenette A. Barrow-Bosshart, on the passing of her mother, Jenette A. Barrow, who fought her illness with dignity, and with the support of her family. We extend our deepest condolences to Jenette, her husband, William, and the entire fam
 DRABKIN -- Sylvia. Born March 5, 1933, New York City, N.Y., passed away Tuesday morning October 7, 2003 following a prolonged illness. Sylvia graduated from Columbia University and the University of Wisconsin earning a Bachelor of Arts and a Master of Arts degree. Sylvia was a long term sub
 GREENWALD--Anne R. On October 8, at the Rosenthal Hospice Residence, Stamford, CT. Survived by two daughters, Bonnie Leff and Lois Greenwald. Also survived by her son-in-law Stephen Leff, two granddaughters and five great grandchildren.       
 LAMBERT--Eleanor. The International Immigrant Foundation, officers and Board of Directors, express our deepest condolences to the family of Eleanor Lambert on her passing. We will always remember her inspiring leadership to our mission of helping immigrants. Edward Juarez, President        
 REAGAN--Robin Stahl, editor from 1970 to 1983 of the Cazenovia Republican, an upstate weekly newspaper, died October 5, 2003, in Georgetown, TX. As editor, she won many awards from the NY Press Association, including first prizes for general excellence and editorial pages. After retiring fr
 SPILKA -- Louise Alayne (Schaffer), 66, died October 7, 2003, surrounded by her loving family, after a brief, brave battle with cancer. She lived a rich, full life. With Bill, her husband of 47 years, she shared laughter, music, world-wide travel and pride in their sons Jesse and Theo, gran
 WEEKS--Donna Joyce (Joy), would have been 50 on October 8th, passed away on September 30th in Houston, Texas, capping a gallant six year battle with breast cancer. Mom to Max, her loving Cat companion. Daughter of the late William Donovan (Pappy) Weeks & the late Norma Jean Weeks. Sister of
 WITTKE--Margaret (Maggie) Freal, died October 8, 2003. She was 81. For information call McMahon Lyon & Hartnett Funeral Home, White Plains, NY, 914-949-7777.       
 CRUISE--Elizabeth E. On October 8, 2003 in New Jersey. Her strength and gracefulness were an inspiration. We will greatly miss her. Survived by four daughters, two sons, two sons-in-law and five grandchildren.       
 HORWITZ--Dr. Betty. On Wednesday, October 8, 2003. Age 74, of New York City. Dear sister of Bernard Horwitz. Cherished aunt of Barbara, James and Nancy. Loving great aunt of Benjamin, Allison and Evan. Funeral service conducted from Menorah Chapels at Millburn, 2950 Vauxhall Road, Union, N.
 ILARDI--Frances M. (nee Salmeri), of Bay Shore, LI, formerly of Lake Success, 91, passed on October 9, 2003 following a brief illness. Frances was predeceased by her husband of 60 years, Onofrio Ilardi, MD. She is survived by her sons, Vincent C. of Edgewater, NJ and Carl F. of Bay Shore, L
 STEINER--Elizabeth (Betty) Guggenheimer, of Great Neck, NY on October 9, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Malcolm Steiner, mother of the late Susan (Betty) Steiner. Survived by her loving son Lawrence and daughter-inlaw Nanci, and grandchildren Jennifer and Jeffrey. The family will be at home
 Carolyn G. Heilbrun, a retired Columbia University literary scholar whose extensive writings included pioneering books and essays in the feminist canon and a dozen highly erudite detective novels under the pseudonym Amanda Cross, died at her home in Manhattan on Thursday. She was 77.       
 GIFFORD--Marjorie Otis. The Board of Trustees of Caramoor Center for Music and the Arts notes with deep sorrow the loss of its dear friend Marjorie Otis Gifford, whose devotion to Caramoor dates back many years to her friendship with its founders Walter and Lucie Rosen. She was a strong adv
 PLACA--Rose. Of Clifton Park, NY formerly of Farmindale, NY. Died peacefully at the age of 81 on Friday, October 10, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Adolph who died in 1979. She is survived by her son, Monsignor Alan Placa and her daughter Adeline Burkitt and her husband Raymond. Cherished g
 STEINER--Elizabeth (Betty) Guggenheimer, of Great Neck, NY on October 9, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Malcolm Steiner, mother of the late Susan (Betty) Steiner. Survived by her loving son Lawrence and daughter-inlaw Nanci, and grandchildren Jennifer and Jeffrey. The family will be at home
 Thalia Mara, a ballet educator who helped found the USA International Ballet Competition in Jackson, Miss., died on Wednesday at St. Dominic/Jackson Memorial Hospital. She was 92 and lived in Jackson. Born in Chicago to Russian parents, Ms. Mara trained with some of the great ballet
 ARDEN--Julie. Died last Sunday morning, almost 90 years old. She was a cultural activist who opened new worlds for many people and a trusted listener and advisor. She was my treasured companion for 62 years. A Memorial Tribute is planned at White Pond Center, Stormville, NY, October 26, 200
 CIAFFONE--Betty R., 55, of Coconut Grove, FL, died on October 10, 2003, of ovarian cancer. Betty is being cremated, and at her request, no formal services will be held. Betty is survived by her parents Charles P. and Rose Ciaffone of Palm City, FL; her brothers Charles and Nancy Ciaffone of
 HEILBRUN--Carolyn G. On Thursday, October 9, 2003, died suddenly at home. Age 78. Renowned feminist scholar and author, Avalon Foundation Professor in the Humanities Emeritus at Columbia University, and mystery writer under the name Amanda Cross; past president of the Modern Language Associ
 LEWIN--Cynthia, PhD, 76, passed away in Berkeley, CA. on October 2, 2003 after a lengthy illness. Dr. Lewin was born in New York City in 1927, the loving daughter of Louis and Goldie Fried. Cynthia graduated from LaGuardia High School of Music and Art, majoring in voice and piano. She gradu
 McDOUGALL--Olga Louise. 86, peacefully in her sleep at home in Pasadena, CA, on Monday, October 6, 2003, after a full, rich life. She is lovingly remembered by her three children, two sons-inlaw, one daughter-in-law, ten grandchildren, ten greatgrandchildren, and a host of other family and 
 MULLEN--Mary Ann (nee Casey). Age 62 years. Beloved wife of 39 years of Joseph and loving mother of Thomas and Sean (Geneifer). On October 9, 2003. A resident of Naples, FL, and Avalon, NJ, originally of South-West Philadelphia. Relatives and friends are invited to her viewing Tuesday morni
 PIER--Hester Halstead. In New Haven, CT, on October 3, 2003. First wife of the late Eldredge C. Pier. Born in Brooklyn, NY, April 24, 1913, she was the daughter of the late Kenneth B. and Marjorie Cheppell Halstead. Mrs. Pier attended Yale Art School and the Packer Collegiate Institute in N
 WUNSCH - MAINZER -- Ilse. October 8, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Otto. She was an accomplished musician, author, educator and role model who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Service Friday, October 17 9:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 Street, NYC.   
 ZAPHIROPOULOS -- Doris Slawson. Died October 4, 2003 at home. A gracious woman, elegant in body, mind and spirit, she nurtured and saw come to flower generations of therapists and their patients while serving as Administrator of the Clinical Services of the William Alanson White Psychoanaly
 GLAZER--Rose. 91, peacefully on October 11. Beloved sister of Sam, Joe, Henry, Freida, Gail and Nathan. Cherished aunt and greataunt of many. We remember her service to her country as a WAC in WWII and her many years with the Social Security Administration. Her kindness and generosity will 
 HEILBRUN--Carolyn G. On Thursday, October 9, 2003, died suddenly at home. Age 78. Renowned feminist scholar and author, Avalon Foundation Professor in the Humanities Emeritus at Columbia University, and mystery writer under the name Amanda Cross; past president of the Modern Language Associ
 LEWIS--Edna Roos. Died October 9, 2003, in Silver Spring, MD. Beloved wife of Nathan. Loving mother of Ellen Lewis Stovall of Gaithersburg, MD, and Stephen J. Lewis of Washington, DC. Cherished grandmother of Jonathan Stovall and Julia and Ruth Lewis and daughter-in-law Alison Wylegala and 
 THEISE--Lee (nee Weiss). On October 9, 2003. Widow of Henry. Beloved mother of Joyce Jonas and Richard Theise, grandmother of Jillian Jonas, Stephanie Jonas Stone and Peter Theise, great - grandmother of Charles Kamuti Stone, sister of Stanley Weiss, mother-inlaw of Marti Theise and Gilbert
 Joan B. Kroc, a prominent philanthropist, a former owner of the San Diego Padres and the widow of Ray A. Kroc, the founder and chairman of the McDonald's Corporation, died on Sunday at her home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. She was 75. The cause was brain cancer, a spokesman said. In 1
 CURTIS -- Laura E. died peacefully in her sleep October 10, 2003. She was the daughter of James Freeman Curtis, a New York attorney who was the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury under President Taft. Her mother was Laura Miriam Curtis Gross founder of the exclusive 1925 F Street Club in W
 GILBERT--Harriet S., M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of a beloved colleague, teacher and friend. Dr. Gilbert was an outstanding member of our staff for more than forty years. A world-renowned hematologist, she was a pioneer in descr
 HAGADORN--Beulah. Died on Thursday, October 2, 2003, after a long illness, at St. Joseph's Nursing Home in Yonkers. Dr. Hagadorn was born in North Ferrisburgh, VT, on January 11, 1918. She was a 1938 graduate of Middlebury College, and receieved an M.A. from the New York State College for T
 HEILBRUN--Carolyn G. Her neighbors at the Kenilworth Apartments mourn her passing, and extend to her family our deepest sympathy. John F. Geer, President       
 LOWERY--Eve Kirkpatrick. Born Geneva Irene Rose on July 15, 1920, in Bruin, KY, died on October 2, 2003, of natural causes. A long term resident of New York City and Amagansett, L.I., she retired to Fayetteville, AR, and later Seattle, WA. She is survived by her brother, Charles R. Rose of 
 MANKIN--Janey. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Janey Mankin, October 13, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family. Services will be held on Wednesday, October 15th, 2003, at 11 A.M. at Temple B
 NEWCOMB--Louise Blaser. Louise Blaser Newcomb died on Saturday, October 11, 2003, in her home in Salisbury, Connecticut at the age of 96. She was the widow of Russell Ladd Newcomb. Mrs. Newcomb was born in Somerville, Massachusetts in 1907. She attended local schools and graduated from Thay
 YELIN--Dorothy. Today my wonderful wife of 63 years passed away. Private service. She was with me so many years, I have to thank God for that. I will never forgot her. She is survived by two daughters, Jane Blank and her husband Robert Blank and Susan Yelin. She leaves four grandchildren an
 Shirley P. Glass, a psychologist who strove to redefine the nature of infidelity, died on Oct. 8 at her home in Owings Mills, Md.. She was 67. The cause was cancer, said Ira Glass, her son and the producer of ''This American Life'' on public radio stations. In magazine artic
 CHANIN -- Dorothy. Passed away October 12, 2003 at 100 years of age. She is survived by her son Gerald (Patricia) and her daughter Judith (Seymour) Rudges, her sister Florence, and five grandsons, Bob, Richard, John, Jim and Tom, and six great-grandchildren. Funeral services were held in Ho
 GOLDSTEIN--Ann. We are deeply saddened over the death of Ann Goldstein, beloved mother of our good friend, Dr. Matthew Goldstein, esteemed Guest of Honor for the forthcoming American Friends of The Open University of Israel Annual Gala, later this month in New York. The loss of one's belove
 GRUN--Ann Kissel, a former resident of New York City and East Hampton, NY, died at her home in Palm Beach, FL on Monday, October 13, 2003. The widow of Otto Grun and S. John Reisman, M.D., Mrs. Grun was a former vicepresident of McCampbell & Company in New York City, a large organization of
 HEILBRUN -- Carolyn. The Women Writing Women's Lives seminar of biographers and memoirists will sadly miss our co-founder, Carolyn Heilbrun. Her inspiring writing about women's lives has helped reshape our work. Her example as a woman of courage will continue to influence us. We extend our 
 MANKIN -- Janey. Beloved wife of the late David. Devoted mother of Beth, Mitchell and Howard. Cherished grandmother of Joshua, Elliot, Samuel, Matthew, Paige and Brent. Loving daughter of Lillian and the late Morris. Best friend and sister to Debbie. Services Wednesday, 10:30AM, at Temple B
 SPANGENBERG--Edith. Died peacefully in her sleep October 13, 2003 at New York Presbyterian Hospital after a long illness. Edith was born in Lucerne, Switzerland on January 10, 1925. Her parents were Judge Otto Lauber and Inez de Charriere Lauber. Her husband Lester and daughter Dr. Maya Lau
 SULLIVAN--Mary, on October 14, 2003. She was 89. Beloved wife of the late Albert. Loving mother of Joseph. Friends and family may call at The Riverdale Funeral Home, 5044 Broadway at 214th St, NYC, Thursday 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian burial Friday, 10 AM at The Good Shepherd R.C. Chu
 BELL--Rita M. The members of the Atran Foundation wish to express their sadness at the passing of their friend and colleague, Rita Bell. A family member since 1946 and Director since 1973 Rita was a notable voice in the philanthropy of the Atran Foundation. She will be sorely missed. Diane 
 BUCKALTER -- Lucille. Be loved mother, sister, aunt, generous friend to all. She will be greatly missed.       
 GATTI--Jeannette. 63, resident of New Canaan, CT. Died at home on October 15, 2003. Beloved wife of John George, adored mother of Stefanie, Teresa and Joseph John, and cherished grandmother of John George and Tessa Carolina. Funeral Mass Saturday at 9:30AM at the Chapel at Salesian High Sch
 HUTTON--Louise Gersen, the most extraordinarily loving, caring and giving wife, mother and daughter, who brought light and love to everyone she touched, lost her tenacious battle against Breast Cancer on October 16, 2003. Louise taught her children how to love and how to help others. Louise
 McGEE--Dorothy Horton, on October 12, 2003, resident of Locust Valley, L.I. Beloved daughter of Col. Hugh H. and Dorothy Brown McGee. Funeral service at Christ Church, Oyster Bay, Long Island, Monday, October 20th at 10:30 AM. Burial at U.S. Military Academy, West Point, NY. For further inf
 O'DONNELL--Alice Jenkins, of New York City, New York, died after a serious illness, on Thursday, October 9, 2003, at Calvary Hospital. Alice was born on October 17, 1912, in Westchester County, New York, to the late Peter and Harriet (Forbes) Jenkins. She was married to Charles S. O'Donnell
 PALMER--Prudence Taylor, 72, wife of T.J. Palmer of Portland, Connecticut died October 16, of cancer. She was born in New York City.       
 SHEEVERS--Agnes C., age 80, of North Salem, NY, died October 13, 2003 at her home. Daughter of Alexander and Agnes (Loschinger) Smith. Mrs. Sheevers was predeceased by her husband, Harry P. Sheevers and is survived by her children; Jamieson Sheevers, Harry Sheevers and Hilary Sheevers, a si
 STERN--Dinah Sand. Born May 27, 1908 in New York City. Daughter of the late Jacob and Anna Sand. She was the devoted wife of the late Abner Stern, beloved mother of Elinor Gollay, adored sister of Miriam Sand Siffert and the late Harry and Joseph Sand. Dinah was a creative, dedicated and en
 DEVINE--Victoria Galen, October 10, 2003, Hollywood, CA. Survived by her son, Galen Firestone Devine, cousins and friends; predeceased by her parents, Frank Galen and Natalie Firestone Galen, and her sister Judy Mitchell.       
 HUTTON--Louise Gersen. We mourn the passing of our friend and partner, Louise Gersen Hutton. The compassion and fortitude with which she lived her life continue to inspire us. Our hearts go out to our other long-time friends, partners, and counselors, her mother, Esther Woolf, and her husba
 McNEILL--Elizabeth. The Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend, Elizabeth (Betty) McNeill. Betty was a founding member of our organization, she began our first referral service, and was instrumental in arranging the move, many
 TECOTZKY--Sylvia. Beloved wife of Mel. Devoted mother of Nan and Mark. Loving grandmother of Ethan, Julia, Sam, Henry and Alice. Dear sister of Dorothy Altschuler and Edy Comis. She exuded sweetness and fortitude, goodness and dignity. She withheld judgement, coveted little, shared what she
 VORISEK--Sister Angela Dolores. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, convent of Mary the Queen, died Friday, October 17, 2003. She is survived by her sister-in-law Terry Vorisek and nieces Katie, Kathleen and Susie. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark St, Yonkers, NY, on
 Dr. Beatrice Blyth Whiting, an anthropologist at Harvard and an expert on the influence of culture on personality, died on Sept. 29 in Cambridge, Mass. She was 89. Dr. Whiting and her husband, Dr. John W. M. Whiting, a fellow Harvard anthropologist, traveled extensively to study par
 Marie Marcus, a jazz pianist who was a protégée of Fats Waller and appeared on Manhattan's 52nd Street, the prewar epicenter of jazz, before becoming a summer fixture in nightclubs on Cape Cod, died on Oct. 10 in Hyannis, Mass. She was 89. In a book about jazz personalities, ''Bar
 BARTEL--Rose, died October 16, 2003 at 90. Wife of the late David Bartel. Beloved by her children, grandchildren and great - grandchildren. Re spected educator and Hadassah Chapter President. Services Sunday 1 PM, I.J. Morris, 1895 Flatbush Ave, Brooklyn.       
 DEVINE--Victoria Galen, October 10, 2003, Hollywood, CA. Survived by her son, Galen Firestone Devine, cousins and friends; predeceased by her parents, Frank Galen and Natalie Firestone Galen, and her sister Judy Mitchell.       
 HUTTON--Louise Gersen. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend Louise Gersen Hutton. Her optimism and courage in the face of unspeakable odds was an inspiration to us. Her warmth, wit and love of life will be sorely missed. Our condolences to Louise's adoring husband Tom, who 
 MOSKOWITZ -- Mae Rubel. Beloved mother of Francine Hoffman, and Ira Miller. Loving grandmother of Herbert, Ronald, Heidi, Stephanie and Libby. Adored great-grandmother of Joshua, Adam, Avrohom, and Asher. Remembered with love by Susan and Susie. 94 years was not enough for her loving family
 SHIMANS--Ida, 91, of Southbury, CT, on October 17, 2003. Beloved wife of Irving. Loving mother of Claire. She was beloved by all.       
 TESTAGROSSA--Nora Catherine, on October 19, 2002. Strong, Loving, Devoted through her drive and inspiration, our lives and those we touched will be forever enriched. Proud FDNY Matron of 20 years. Mom, we miss you. Say hello to Larry & Dad. Love, your children, grandchildren and great-grand
 ROTHMAN--Florence ''Patsy,'' on Friday, October 17, 2003, age 92. A New Yorker by birth and sentiment, she also lived in Pittsburgh, Montreal and most recently, Hollywood, FL. Survived in Florida by a brother, Al Black, and a sister, Rhoda Schaffer, and also a sister-in-law, Martha Rothman 
 FREIBERG--Sylvia. 7/15/11 10/20/98. Smart, funny, loving and compassionate, she hoped for a better world for future generations. Life's not the same without her. The Family       
 INKELES--Fay. Beloved wife of the late Abraham. Loving mother of Lila and Richard Holland and David and Margery Inkeles. Cherished grandmother of Leslie and Adam Holland and Charles, Barbara, John, and Laura Inkeles. Beloved great-grandmother of Zoe Holland. Services were held Monday, Octob
 PORTNOY--Manya, 79, of Lakewood, NJ on October 20, 2003. Beloved wife for 57 years to Phillip. Loving mother of Ralph and Annabel Portnoy; Helen and Jeffrey Horowitz. Adoring grandmother of Jared, Bari, Jason, Samuel, Matthew, Kiel, great-grandchild Jolie; and her brothers Nathan and Harry 
 TEITELBAUM -- Marla, 96. Loving mother to Laura and David. Beloved grandmother to Robin, Russ and Mark. Great - grandmother to Chaya. She will be greatly missed.       
 ZIRINSKY--Nancy S. On October 20, 2003 in Ann Arbor, MI at the age of 53. Treasured daughter of Helen and the late Lawrence. Beloved sister of John and Bill and the late Jane. Dear sister-in-law of Olga and Ruth and brother-inlaw the late Chuck. Cherished aunt of Sara, Hanna, Samuel, Jacob,
 Janice Rule, an actress in film and onstage who became a psychoanalyst late in her career, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 72. Born in Norwood, Ohio, Ms. Rule studied ballet and began dancing in Chicago nightclubs in her teens. She soon attracted attention in Hollyw
 EDWARDS--Esther. We celebrate the life of Esther Edwards. She was a beautiful and proud woman who lived her life with dignity. She has been loved and cherished by her husband George; children Brenda, Rick and Richard; grandchildren Debra, Brian, Danny and Laura; great grandchildren Lauren, 
 ESSES--Marsha Zweig. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Marsha Zweig Esses, beloved sister of Rivalyn Zweig. We extend our condolences to Rivalyn and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 GRICE--Maureen (nee Murphy) on October 21, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Edward V. Loving mother of Freya, Gail, Ian, Regan and Maud. Dear mother-in-law of Sharon, Glenn Blachman and the late Peter Vega. Beloved grandmother of Jack, Ruby, Ryan, Adelaide and Logan. Also survived by her sibl
 HOURIHAN--Margaret. Died Monday October 20, 2003, at Mt. Sinai Hospital. Born in Hells Kitchen, NYC on August 24, 1907, daughter of Cornelius and Dora Hourihan. Sickly as a child, she was sent to Trudeau Sanitorium where she became interested in nursing and where she would later do her nurs
 KELLAHER--Anna B. On October 19, 2003, of Forest Hills, NY. Associated with Equitable Life Insurance Company for 45 years. Devoted sister of the late Edward, the late John, and Kathryn Miller of Florida. Dear sister-in-law of Eleanore Kellaher. She will be missed by her many nieces, nephews
 KENDLER -- Dora (nee Perres). Born in Bobruisk, Russia, in 1916. At age 13, she emigrated to the United State with her mother, two sisters and brother, to be reunited with her father, in escape of the pogroms against Jews. Beloved wife of the late Irving Nathan Kendler, dearly loved mother 
 KOLBER--Helen. On October 20, 2003, of East Brunswick, New Jersey, in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late Aaron Kolber. Loving mother of Harriet & Gilbert Ehrenreich, Warren and Jane Kolber. Adored grandmother of Charlie, Elizabeth, Jennifer, Jill, Kenneth, Mark, Mindy and Sharon and sp
 SPRAGUE--Gretchen Burnham, 77, died on October 18, 2003. She was a graduate of the University of Nebraska Lincoln, 1947, and Columbia Law School, 1975. She was an attorney with the Brooklyn Legal Services Corp. B, from 1975-1986. She was also an author. Her young adult novel ''Signpost to T
 ZIRINSKY--Nancy S. On October 20, 2003 in Ann Arbor, MI at the age of 53. Treasured daughter of Helen and the late Lawrence. Beloved sister of John and Bill and the late Jane. Dear sister-in-law of Olga and Ruth and the late Chuck. Cherished aunt of Sara, Hanna, Samuel, Jacob, Juliana and L
 Louise Day Hicks, the Boston public school official and City Council member whose opposition to busing to achieve school integration helped to polarize the city in the 1960's and made her a national symbol of racial division, died on Tuesday at her home in South Boston. She was 87. 
 Margaret E. Murie, a conservationist and an author who helped preserve millions of acres of unspoiled land in Alaska and across the United States by encouraging the creation of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the passage of the Wilderness Act, died on Sunday at her ranch in Moose, W
 BERNSTEIN--Hazel. The Women's Auxiliary of Congregation Emanu-El notes with sadness the death of our devoted, long time Board member, Hazel Bernstein. Our condolences to her family. Eve Haberman, President       
 DULL--Susan on October 21, 2003 of Pt. Washington, NY. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Cousin of Gloria Ficalora, and aunt of Louis & Lena Giobbe. Sister-in-law of Homer Mensch. In repose at The Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset on Thursday 3-5 & 7-9 PM. Funeral Mas
 FITZGERALD--Libuse O. (Liby), 84, of Valhalla, formerly of Eastchester, NY, died on October 21, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Edward. Loving mother of Eileen (Paul Rosenblum) Fitzgerald and Kevin (Linda) Fitzgerald. Cherished grandmother of Leona Rosenblum. Liby was an accomplished ceramic
 KOALKIN--Muriel. Age 79. Of California, formerly of New Jersey and New York, passed away October 19, 2003. Beloved mother of Barbara and Al, Sheila and Alan, and grandmother of Joshua, Eric and Justin. Devoted to her predeceased sister, Harriet. Dear aunt to Adrienne, Sharon and Andrew.    
 MELLO -- Judy Hendren (Schwamm). Judy: You have filled my life, and all the world, with love and happiness. You have fought the courageous battle. Undaunted, head upright, never without optimism and always with a joyful spirit. Wherever you have walked you have given forth love, caring and 
 SCHENCK--Doris D. Mrs. Doris D. Schenck, of Southbury, Connecticut, died in her home on Tuesday, October 21. She leaves two children, John C. Schenck of New York City and Anita Zednik of Santa Fe, NM; six grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Services will be private. In lieu of flow
 ZIRINSKY--Nancy S. We mourn the premature passing of our cherished sister and aunt. Nancy was a beautiful woman with a great spirit who always made a valiant effort to overcome more than her share of life's problems. In spite of everything she lived her life with great curiosity, enthusiasm
 LONGFORD--Elizabeth. October 23, 2002. In memory of Elizabeth Longford, historian and beloved mother from her loving daughter, Judith Kazantzis       
 Judy Hendren Mello, former president and chief executive of the First Women's Bank in Manhattan, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 60 and had homes in Manhattan; Millbrook, N.Y.; and Moose, Wyo. The cause was complications of ovarian cancer,
 Madame Chiang Kai-shek, a pivotal player in one of the 20th century's great epics -- the struggle for control of post-imperial China waged between the Nationalists and the Communists during the Japanese invasion and the violent aftermath of World War II -- died on Thursday in New York City,
 ABDALE--Darlene V. Leischner. Educator, 57, died on Friday, October 17, 2003 after a courageous battle with cancer. Ms. Abdale was Emerita Chair of the Science Department at Collegiate School in Manhattan, where she taught for 25 years. She previously taught biology at Packer Collegiate Ins
 BECKEY -- Sylvia Louise. Lawyer and international businesswoman, died October 20, 2003. Born February 8, 1946, in Lynwood, California, she graduated from New York University (LLM), Duke University (JD) and University of Texas at Austin (BA), and was Salutatorian and voted ''Most Likely to S
 HAMBURGER -- Tilly. Died peacefully at home at 97 years of age on Wednesday, October 22. Mother of two, grandmother of six, great grandmother of seven, widowed 40 years. Charming, formidable, witty, up-to-date, with something to say to each generation. She will be sorely missed. Services wi
 KURTZ--Dora. Wife of Irving. Mother of Marcia and Judy. Grandmother of Aaron and Elena. Mother-in-law of Sidney. Aunt, sister and sister-inlaw of the Kurtz/Rosenstein clans. Her life revolved around her near and extended family. She had a great zest for life, a wonderful sense of humor and 
 MELLO -- Judy Hendren (Schwamm). On October 21st, while sleeping peacefully and with great dignity at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center, NYC, after a seventeen year courageous battle fought with strength and dignity. Born July 14, 1943 to the late Colonel Ed Hendren and Dorthy May He
 POWEL--Ivy Maria, died on October 23, 2003. Her remains will rest in Santo Domingo. We bid her farewell with great sorrow and ask for a prayer in her memory. Maria Sol, Lidia, Pablo, Esteban, Irma, Carolina, Osvaldo, Hugo and Pablo, her family and friends from Argentina.       
 SIEGEL--Ruth. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted longtime member and extends sympathy to her bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Jack Stern, Rabbi Emeritus       
 STOLLERMAN--Hannah. On October 22, 2003 in her 100th year at home. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Maurice Stollerman. Devoted mother of Jan Litwack, Judith Stollerman and Joan Sun. Cherished grandmother of Kim, Kathy, Lauri, Jody, Ari, Gia and nine great - grandchildren. Also survived by niec
 WOLLENS--Helen, 82, of Mineola, formerly of Manhasset Hills, NY, died on October 22 in her home. Devoted wife of the late beloved Bernard. Loving mother of Debra Wollens Newhouse and James Wollens. Adoring grandmother of Emily, Haley, Nora and Beau. Her generous and invincible spirit will a
 Madame Chiang Kai-shek, a pivotal figure in one of the 20th century's great epics -- the struggle for control of post-imperial China waged between the Nationalists and the Communists during the Japanese invasion and the violent aftermath of World War II -- died on Thursday in Manhattan, the
 ASH--Geraldine (''Gerry''), of New York, NY. Formerly of Pound Ridge, NY. Died October 22, 2003. Born to Leo and Gertrude Gage in Providence Rhode Island. She was the owner operator of Gerry Ash. Real Estate Broker in Pound Ridge, NY. Retiring in 1997. Beloved wife to the late Ingram Ash. L
 KRAMPF--Etta. October 24, 2003 in her 90th year. Adored and devoted wife of the late Charles. Loving mother of Ira and mother-in-law of Karen (deceased). Devoted grandmother of Brian and Wendy. Dear sister of Ann, Iris, and Sam (deceased). Graveside service October 26, Cedar Park Cemetery, 
 SIEGEL--Ruth E. (nee Emden). Age 84, of Eastchester, died on October 23. Beloved wife of Frank C. Siegel. Devoted mother of Barbara, Jill and Monica. Cherished grandmother of Lisa, Jay, Jordan, Matthew, Jesse, Leigh, Josh and Allison. She was active in the community. Friends may gather at W
 AMKRAUT--Harriet (nee Potoker) of Delray Beach, FL and Bethpage, NY. Born September 11, 1916. Died of natural causes on October 24. Survived by her daughter Alynne Amkraut Krull and son-in-law Albert of Chappaqua, NY; grandchildren Jeremy and Kathryn, to whom she was devoted. She will be mi
 DANIEL--Beverly L. On September 19th, 2003. A remarkable woman who we will truly miss. We were blessed to have her in our lives. She loved us and taught us great values. She lived her life for peace on earth and justice for all. Service will be held 11 AM, Sunday, November 23rd, at Temple A
 DIGANGI--Elizabeth ''Betty'' (nee Clarke). Retired Pan Am executive secretary. 80, died Ocotber 21. Predeceased by her husband Charles Digangi, parents John and Catherine Clarke, sister Veronica Dalton, brothers Daniel and John Clarke. Survived by her sister Virginia Bauer, 11 nieces and ne
 FINESTONE--Leona. On October 21, 2003. Pioneering director of neighborhood conservation program at the Hudson Guild. A woman of sharp intellect, lover of the arts. Survived by her brother, Sidney Howard Quint, five nieces and a nephew.       
 GIFFORD -- Marjorie Otis, composer, choir master and music teacher, died at her home in Katonah, NY, on October 8 at the age of 94. Starting in 1930, she taught at various schools, notably Wykeham Rise in Washington, CT; Nightengale Bamford and Lenox in Manhattan; and the Bedford Rippowam S
 MASLANSKY--Ruth. Beloved wife of the late Manuel Maslansky, died October 23, 2003. She will be remembered with great affection by her stepchildren and their wives. She will be missed sorely by her eight grandchildren, her seven great grandchildren, the latest one having arrived just two wee
 ROSNER--Anne. On October 25. Beloved wife of Harold for 54 years. Loving mother to Jeffrey, Susan and Phil Ragusa. Devoted grandmother to Michelle, Vanessa, Jessica and Zachary. Devoted sister and sister-in-law to Shirley and Charlie Simon, Rita Abelson and Shirley Dubin, and ''mother'' to 
 SELIGMANN--Lise R. Wife of the late Herbert J. Seligmann. On October 19, 2003 in New York City. Born April 24, 1917 in Basel, Switzerland. An erudite woman who gave generously to her many organizations involved in the arts and medical research, especially the Harvard University Library Juda
 WOLLENS -- Helen. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Helen Wollens. She was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to her entire family.       
 Rosalie Allen, who came out of Pennsylvania coal country to become a popular singing cowgirl and yodeler in New York, where she was also the city's only country D.J. for a while, died on Sept. 23 in Palmdale, Calif. She was 79. The cause was heart failure that followed diabetes and 
 CAREY -- Diane D. (nee Downes). Age 74, of Manhattan, NY, passed away on October 21, 2003, at Lenox Hill Hospital. Born to Charles H. and Vera C. Downes, ''The lovely little person.'' Devoted wife of the late Michael J. Carey. Beloved sister of Patrick H. Downes. Beloved sister-inlaw of Deb
 DANIEL--Beverly L. On September 19th, 2003. A remarkable woman who we will truly miss. We were blessed to have her in our lives. She loved us and taught us great values. She lived her life for peace on earth and justice for all. Service will be held 11 AM, Sunday, November 23rd, at Temple A
 DICKER--Dorothy. She was a part of our lives for more than 44 years. We will genuinely miss her. The Family of Jule Styne       
 FAMILANT--Rosalind. Matriarch of the May family, on October 25. Currently living in Jamesburg, NJ. Formerly of Brooklyn, Brooklyn College, Pinewood, Dearkill, Forest Hills, Progressive Credit Union, Long Beach and Lake Worth. Survived by her husband of 62 years, Aaron (Arcky), children Lind
 MARGOLIES -- Claire (nee Green). Of Great Neck, NY, died on October 25, 2003, after a long struggle with emphysema. She was a cherished mother, grandmother, sister and friend. She will be missed every day by Jay, Diana, Liz, Nancy, Barbara, Marty, Sonny, Mike, Leie, Ryan, Maggie, Tad and Wo
 ROSNER--Anne. On October 25. Beloved wife of Harold for 54 years. Loving mother to Jeffrey, Susan and Phil Ragusa. Devoted grandmother to Michelle, Vanessa, Jessica and Zachary. Devoted sister and sister-in-law to Shirley and Charlie Simon, Rita Abelson and Shirley Dubin, and ''mother'' to 
 SCHAFFNER--Henrietta. On Friday, October 24, 2003, Henrietta Schaffner of Alexandria, VA, formerly of Flushing, NY. Beloved aunt of Amy and Lewis Kargman, Selma and Dick Rechtschaffner and Jackie Gilbert. Also survived by many loving great-nieces and nephews. Funeral services will be held o
 SCHNURER--Bernice Lunin. 79, was born in New York City and lived there for the first half of her life. A child of immigrants who died when she was young, Bernice became, in spite of her humble financial circumstances, an ardent patron of the arts, and for the remainder of her life avidly fo
 WENDLER--Nell Ely, 64, died in London on October 18, 2003. She graduated from Miss Hall's School, Bradford College and attended Columbia. Nell, with her husband Jack co-published Art Monthly Magazine in London where they have resided since 1971. Nell is survived by her husband Jack Wendler 
 ABRAMS--Emily Thorburn, of Pittsburgh, PA, formerly of Brookside, NJ, passed away on Saturday, October 25th, 2003. Emily is the widow of Lawrence B. Abrams, Jr. She is survived by her brother, Grant Thorburn, of Florida, and her four children, Lawrence B. III of Camp Hill, PA, Martha Broder
 BROOKS--Margie. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the passing of Margie Brooks, beloved mother of our dear friends, Charlotte Brooks from the hosptial's Office of Credentialing Services and Medical Board, and Bill Brooks, Beth Israel's former Director of Accoun
 CHANOWITZ--Karen Olshan. Beloved and loving wife of Gary and mother of Jennifer. Her love, commitment and passion for life will be missed by all who knew her. Services Wednesday, 10:30 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. CHANOWITZ--Karen Olshan. You fought a remark
 DALY--Marie, Ph.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine notes with profound sorrow the passing of Dr. Marie Daly, a member of our department of biochemistry for more than 25 years. A distinguished scientist, and believed to be the first African-American woman to receive a Ph.D. in chemistry 
 ENTIN--Sally, of Boca Raton, FL and Verona, NJ, passed away at the age of 85. She was predeceased by her husband Lester. She is survived by two daughters, Sheila Lenner and Norma Rappaport, a brother, Paul Waters, eight grandchildren Wendy, Robert, Marc, Heidi, Lara, Justin, Karen and Adam,
 GAGLIOTTI--Irma Uran of Scottsdale, AZ, passed away on October 26, 2003. Born in Brooklyn, NY on May 29, 1918. Preceded in death by her beloved husband, Arthur. Survived by daughter, Carla and granddaughter, Angela.       
 GERMAIN--Gloria. October 24. Loving mother and grandmother, teacher and devoted friend to so many. Contributions in her memory may be made to Hampshire College--Gloria Germain Fund for Early Childhood Education, Amherst, MA 01002       
 JOHNS -- Margaret. The Trustees and staff of the World Monuments Fund mark with great sadness the death of Margaret Johns. With her husband, Peter Stern, Vice Chairman and long-serving trustee of the World Monuments Fund, Margaret shared a passion for the work of the organization and partic
 KIPP--Jean S., of Palm City, FL, formerly of Cold Spring Harbor, NY, on October 25th, at the age of 84. Wife of John P. Kipp, she is also survived by daughter, Karen K. Moffett; sons, John P., Jr. and Hendrick B., five grandchildren, three step-grandchildren, two great-grandchildren, and si
 MENDOZA--Dr. Barbara M., died at her home on October 26, 2003 of lung cancer. In 1940, Eleanor Roosevelt invited a few college students to tea at the White House. Dr. Mendoza was at that meeting, which set the course for her life. Mrs. Roosevelt was very enthusiastic about the role of women
 RIESE--Sylvia. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 SHEEHAN--Lois T. On October 26, 2003. Former Administrative Assistant at ABC. Survived by her sisters Mary McDonough, Kathleen Hughes, brother William Sheehan and several nieces and nephews. Funeral Mass of Christian Burial is Wednesday 11am at Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal RC Church, Po
 SMITH--Vernon Siems. Of New Canaan, CT died on October 26, 2003 at age 89. Predeceased by her husband, Crosby T. Smith in 1970. She is survived by her sister Dorothy Siems dePeyster of Palm Beach, and five sons, Crosby of New Canaan, Dudley of Grantham, NH, Christopher of New Canaan, Jeremy
 Dr. Margaret A. Johns, who showed that pheromones can set off hormonal changes in mammals when they activate receptors in a tiny nasal cavity, a process that can attract animals of the opposite sex, died Saturday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 75. The cause was a heart
 BERNSTEIN -- Bernice. Passed away October 28, 2003. Devoted wife of the late Bertram, beloved mother of Ilene Davis, Marlene Hess and JoAnn Leder. Cherished grandmother and greatgrandmother. Her love of life gave great joy to all who knew her. She will be greatly missed. Funeral services Th
 CHANOWITZ--Karen. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its member, Karen Chanowitz. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President       
 COIN--Debora Donager (nee Cohen). Wife of the late Morris. Beloved mother of Judge Ellen (Barry Fishkin) Coin. Sister of Ethel (Martin) Serata. Mrs. Coin was a secretary for 14 years to Charles J. Pilling Sr., surgical instrument maker. She was the owner of the Sansom Luggage Company. Shiva
 GOLDSTEIN--Jill, of NYC, on Tuesday, October 28, 2003. Beloved daughter of the late Lillian Goldstein Krulewitz and the late Solomon Goldstein. Loving sister of Sylvia Kaplan and her husband Bernard, Doris Goren and Daniel Krulewitz. She was associate editor of Esquire Magazine, executive e
 JOHNS -- Margaret. The Trustees and staff of the World Monuments Fund mark with great sadness the death of Margaret Johns. With her husband, Peter Stern, Vice Chairman and long-serving trustee of the World Monuments Fund, Margaret shared a passion for the work of the organization and partic
 JONES--Gertrude L. (nee Lowerre) formerly of Flushing. At the age of 100 passed away on October 26, 2003 in Lawrenceville, Georgia. Loving daughter of Thomas B. Lowerre IV, the former Postmaster of Flushing, and Administrator of Flushing Hospital; and Margaret Field. Preceded in death by hu
 MENDOZA--Dr. Barbara M., died at her home on October 26, 2003 of lung cancer. In 1940, Eleanor Roosevelt invited a few college students to tea at the White House. Dr. Mendoza was at that meeting, which set the course for her life. Mrs. Roosevelt was very enthusiastic about the role of women
 POCHAPIN - KOHN -- Sandra. Our hearts are saddened by the death of our beloved sister-in-law and aunt, Sandy. We share the loss with all her loved ones. She will be missed by us all and always remembered. Rita & Philip Rosen, Phyllis, Wendy, Robert, Michael, POCHAPIN - KOHN -- Sandr
 WHALEN -- Julia Quinn. Peacefully at the age of 96 in Amagansett, NY. Pre-deceased in 1968 by her husband Myles V. Whalen. Survived by her children Myles V. Whalen, Jr., Julia M. Whalen and Joan Whalen McGauley. Also by grandchildren Mark W. McGauley, Suzanne McGauley Vide and Faith McGaule
 GORMAN--Ethel. October 29, 1914. Lovingly remembered by her family each and every day. Linda, Doug, Abby and Richard       
 CHANOWITZ--Karen Olshan. No one knows better than I, the daily contributions Karen made to the company where we worked together for many years. She had an extraordinary intellect and a devotion to integrity that made her stand out in every respect. Karen spent no time dwelling on the challe
 COMNINEL--Ann. Died October 25, 2003. Born August 9, 1918 in New York City where she lived for 74 years. Beloved sister, adored aunt and loyal friend; she was a lady of fine character and great integrity who brought love and kindness to all who knew her. Retired international real estate br
 JOHNS -- Margaret. The Trustees and staff of the World Monuments Fund mark with great sadness the death of Margaret Johns. With her husband, Peter Stern, Vice Chairman and long-serving trustee of the World Monuments Fund, Margaret shared a passion for the work of the organization and partic
 KRISBURG--Amy. Of NYC, on October 29th, 2003 of a brain tumor. She was 34. Services Friday, 11:45 AM at The Riverside, 180 West 76th Street. Donations may be made to the American Brain Tumor Association at 800886-2282.       
 REZNICK--Ida. On October 28, 2003. Cherished wife of Avram. Adored aunt of Arthur and Joel Leeds. She will always be remembered.       
 Wendy Marx, who became the spokeswoman of a foundation named for her after being saved by a liver transplant, died on Tuesday in Palo Alto, Calif. She was 36 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was hepatitis B, which once again flared in Ms. Marx's system and attacked her liver, h
 BRONTE--Dr. D. Lydia, died October 29, 2003 of breast cancer. Beloved daughter of the late Paul and Dorothy Bronte of McCrory, Arkansas. Devoted sister of Gloria Bronte Lane. Survived by many wonderful friends and cousins who made her life brighter in her illness. A brilliant scholar and re
 GORDON--Jean (nee Silberberg). 82, of Westport,CT, died October 28. She attended Fieldston and Goucher College. Survived by husband Leo, children Jacqueline, Jeff and Deborah, granchildren, nieces and nephews.       
 RYAN--Mary L. Of NYC died Monday October 27th, 2003. Ms. Ryan also known as Didi, has been a resident of Manhattan for the past 23 years. She graduated in 1980 from St. Francis College of Loretto, PA, with a Bachelor of Arts in American History. Ms. Ryan also graduated from the Oldfields sc
 WERWAISS--Julia Kitchenka, died peacefully at age 93 on October 29 in Southbury, CT. Mother of William of Ivoryton, CT and John and Julanne, both of NYC, six grandchildren, four great-grandchildren. Calling hours Friday 4-7pm in the daily chapel of Sacred Heart Church, Main St. So., Southbu
 WHEELER -- Irene. Re nowned ceramic sculptor died October 16, in her 86th year. Born in Newark, NJ but a longtime resident of NYC with her late husband Herbert. Devoted sister-in-law and loving aunt to members of the Wheeler family. A memorial ceremony is being arranged by family and friend
