 Mary Ellis, the young opera singer for whom Rudolf Friml wrote ''Rose-Marie'' in 1924 and who later became the queen of musicals in London, died there on Thursday at her home on Eaton Square. She was 105, including the three years that Hollywood publicists subtracted in the 1930's. 
 Natalya Dudinskaya, who wielded major influence over the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad as its leading ballerina in the 1940's and 50's and as a revered teacher and the wife of its onetime artistic director, Konstantin Sergeyev, died on Wednesday in St. Petersburg. She was 90. With her e
 Annemarie Schimmel, who became fascinated with the Muslim world after hearing Arabian tales as a child and went on to become one of the 20th century's most influential scholars of Islam, died last Sunday in Bonn. She was 80. Ms. Schimmel taught generations of students in a breathtak
 Evelyn Trout, a pioneering aviator who flew in the first Powder Puff Derby and held many records, including becoming the first woman to fly all night, died on Jan. 24 in San Diego. She was 97. Known as Bobbi for her bob hairstyle, she had an international pilot's license signed by O
 Edith Hirsch, a former commodities economist, died on Jan. 7 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, D.C. She was 103. Edith Hirsch and her husband, Julius, who was a macroeconomist, formed a consulting group in New York in 1941. Their clients included Levi Strauss, RCA, Ba
 Lillian Nadel Gerard, who was active in exhibiting and marketing foreign films in the United States for three decades, died last Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. The cause was complications of cancer, her husband, Philip R. Gerard, said. After she was hired in 19
 Sylvia Regan Ellstein, who wrote a two-act comedy, ''The Fifth Season,'' a Broadway hit in 1953, died Jan. 18 in Manhattan. She was 94. The play, by Sylvia Regan, as she was widely known, was a comedy about the dress trade. Brooks Atkinson, reviewing it in The New York Times, called
 Cora Ginsburg, a prominent dealer in antique fabrics and clothing, died on Dec. 12 at her home in Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 92. After World War II she worked with her husband, Benjamin Ginsburg, at Ginsburg & Levy, his family's antiques firm, at 815 Madison Ave., in Manhattan.        
 Noriko Sawada Bridges Flynn, a writer and civil rights worker who managed to transcend the struggle between management and labor in her personal and professional life, died on Feb. 7 at her home in Pescadero, Calif. She was 79. Her first marriage, to Harry Bridges, the fiery Marxist
 Baroness Liliane de Rothschild, the wife of Baron Elie de Rothschild, an art collector, philanthropist and meticulous caretaker of the history of the family she married into, died on Feb. 17 in her home in Royaumont, outside Paris. She was 86. Her husband, a member of the French bra
 Amy Bess Williams Miller, who helped found Hancock Shaker Village, a restoration of a former Shaker community and a museum, died on Sunday at her home in Pittsfield, Mass. She was 90. Mrs. Miller, an expert on the Shaker religious movement, was president of Hancock Shaker Village In
 Eve Stillman, a retired lingerie designer who also owned and led the lingerie company that bore her name, died on Friday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 97. In the 1940's when Gracette Lingerie, a company founded by her husband, Harry Stillman, encountered financial problems
 Felice Marks Lippert, in whose kitchen Weight Watchers was hatched 40 years ago, died on Saturday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Mrs. Lippert was 73 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan and in West Palm Beach, Fla
