 BAKHOUM-Selim. March 31, 2003. Beloved father of Karine Bakhoum Riffaud and her husband Pascal. Cherished grandfather of JeanBaptiste, devoted brother of Roselyne Roussillon, Helene Bakhoum and the late Jean Bakhoum. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street,
 CHESTER - Lenore. The Boards of Directors and staff of Citizens Union & Citizens Union Foundation mourn the passing of Lenore Chester. She was associate director of the organization for many years, the founding editor of the award winning publication Searchlight on the City Council. We exte
 DIENER-Beatrice. ''...She is robed in strength and dignity and cheerfully faces whatever may come...She opens her mouth with wisdom, her tongue is guided by kindness ...Her children come forward and praise her; her husband, too, and he lauds her:'Many daughters have amassed achievement, but
 DUNCAN-Barbara D. The Board of Trustees, residents, staff and alumni of International House note with great sorrow the passing of Barbara D. Duncan. As a trustee since 1982, she enriched the life of this community through her great interest in Latin American art and culture, and she will be
 ELMALEH de BUENOSAnne Seymour Moynahan, 73, died at St. Vincent's March 24, 2003. Survivors include her husband Alexandre, seven children & 13 grandchildren. Her generous & caring spirit will never be forgotten by the family and friends to whom she was devoted.       
 GERSTEIN - Hilda Kir schbaum. On March 31, 2003. Former President and ViceChairman of Petrie Stores Corporation. Beloved wife of the late Max Gerstein. Devoted mother of Nancy Novogrod and her husband John. Cherished grandmother of James and Caroline. Family will receive friends Tuesday, 6-
 KRAMER-Milton. The officers Board of Directors, & staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Milton Kramer, beloved father of Joyce L. Kramer, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Joyce serves on numerous committees and is dedicated to supporting Jewish & humanitarian causes.
 KURTZ-Ida. The American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem note with profound sorrow the passing of Ida Kurtz, beloved mother of Michael and Robert Kurtz; mother-in-law of Carol; and grandmother of Jason and Randy. An esteemed Guardian, Ida was known and
 LONGO-Catherine, 88 years old of Holmdel, NJ, died on Sunday, March 30, 2003 in Bayshore Health Care Center, Holmdel. She was a homemaker. She was born in Bristol, PA, where she lived until the age of 13. She then moved to Brooklyn and upon leaving Brooklyn she lived in Minnisink Village, M
 McMAHON-Mary Veronica (nee Rowland). Age 91. On March 30th, 2003. Peacefully after a long illness. Formerly of Riverdale, N.Y. and Miami Shores, FL. Beloved wife of the late Daniel McMahon. She is survived by her daughter Marita, son and daughterin-law Daniel and Mary and two grandchildren 
 BAKER-Penny B., Salisbury, CT, 58, mother, housewife, and photo stylist in her husband's illustration business, died Monday, March 31, 2003 at New York University Tisch Hospital after a long battle with the disease of scleroderma (CREST). She was the wife of Joe Baker of Salisbury, CT and m
 CONROY-Ruth McClymont, 94. Of Lenox, MA, formerly of Rye Brook, NY and Southold, Long Island, died on March 30, 2003. The wife of the late Harold W. Conroy. She was the mother of Mrs. Roger V. Tabort of Pembroke, ME and William C. Conroy of Raleigh, NC. She is also survived by four grandchi
 DIENER-Beatrice. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Marjorie Diener-Blenden and Larry Diener on the passing of their beloved mother. Our sympathies to her sister Toby Greller. A longtime member of the National Women's Division and a Diamond Founder, together with her late husband, Leona
 DREZNER-Sylvia, age 90, beloved wife of the late Fred Drezner. Mother of David Drezner and Judith Lippard and grandmother of Joshua and Alex Lippard and of Noah Drezner. She will be greatly missed. Please send donations to Hadassah. DREZNER-Sylvia. ShalomFannie Zornberg Group of Had
 FENSTER-Sandra Lee. Of Port Washington, age 56, on March 31. Sandra was born in Warwick, New York. Adored wife of Fred, loving and devoted step-mother of Jordan and Sarah, and grandmother to Miriam and Naomi. Treasured aunt to Nancy, Charlie, Daralyn, Mary, Jessica, and Joshua. Beloved sist
 LAX-Susan. In her 98th year. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Dear sister, aunt, and great aunt. Forever in our hearts.       
 ALVARY-Hallie Carr. On March 29, 2003 at her home in New York City. Born October 2, 1900 in Moon Lake, Mississippi. Beloved and prized wife of the late Metropolitan Opera basso, Lorenzo Alvary and of industrialist Norman J. Fox of La Porte, Indiana. Mother of the late Joan Fox Walton. She i
 DIENER-Beatrice. The officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds deeply mourn the passing of Beatrice Diener of New Jersey. Mrs. Diener and her late husband Leonard were longstanding supporters and beloved leaders of Israel Bonds and the local community. Mrs. Diener's dedicated efforts on b
 DUDA-Janina (Nina). A nurturing, caring and selfless woman who enriched the lives of all who knew her. A survivor of the Warsaw uprising and a prisoner of war liberated by the U.S. Army. Devoted mother of Halina and maternal caretaker of the extended Robinowitz family including Stuart and A
 GERSTEIN-Hilda K. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation mourn the death of Hilda K. Gerstein. We extend most sincere condolences to her daughter, Nancy Novogrod, esteemed member of our Advisory Board, and to her entire family. Evelyn H. Lauder, Founder an
 Barbara Doyle Duncan, who collected, exhibited and wrote about modern Latin American art when the field was still little known to much of the United States art world, died on March 28 at her home in New York. She was 82. Ms. Duncan's interest in Latin American art began when she and
 CHABON-Sarah Roth, 97. Of Hollywood, FL. passed away April 1, 2003. She is survived by three cherished grandchildren Phyllis (Clifford) Appel of CT, Nancy (Van) Ripps of New Jersey, and Michael Pfeffer of CT: six great grandchildren: a dear sister Lucille Zuckerman of New York and all who k
 ELLEN-Ann, 91. Of Jackson Heights, NY. Predeceased by her husband Dr. Louis E. Ellen. Survived by her children Suzanne and Dr. Arthur Mahler, Dr. Peter and Judy Ellen, Mark and Barbara Ellen; grandchildren Wendy, Douglas, Douglas, Holly, Daniel, Joanie, Robert and Melissa; great-grandchildr
 HANDELSMAN-Joyce. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Joyce Handelsman. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved family. Richard J. Bornstein, Pres. Leon Fassler, Secretary       
 WARREN-Ada (nee Lustbader), 95, of Lakewood, NJ; formerly of Woodside, NY, died April 1, 2003 at Brick Hospital. Predeceased by her beloved husband Stephen in 1967. Survived by her loving sister-inlaw Ilona V. Katonah, and many nieces, nephews, and cousins. For information contact Van Hise 
 FRIEDMAN-Clara. It has been one sad and lonely year since the death of my beloved Wife, who was a Mother, Grandmother and GreatGrandmother. She was a gentle and gallant lady who was admired and deeply loved by those lucky enough to have known her. She left us a legacy of love and a lifetime
 CORNELL-Carol Anna Maria went to Heaven on April 3rd, 2003. Mom & Dad gave her life, Carol gave them the world. Beautiful daughter to Henny & Carl. Loving sister to Carl & Lorraine. Sweet aunt to Jonathon, Jennifer & Steven. Precious godmother with precious gifts to Steven. Flight attendant
 ROBINOWITZ-Arleen Shub. Passed April 2, 2003 at age 75. She and Alvin Robinowitz, her husband of 25 years, lived in Florida. Her first husband, Dr. Harold Shub, a cardiologist in Manhattan, passed away in 1976. In addition to her husband she is survived by five children, eight grandchildren
 WEITZMAN-Yaffa. Her soft, intense glow warmed and uplifted everyone she touched. Jerrold and C. Jerem       
 BARKER-Mary (nee Szur). On Friday, March 28, 2003. Widow of Chris K. Barker. Mother of John, prematurely deceased in 1993 at age 46. Born in East Chicago, IN, Mary was a woman clearly ahead of her time. She graduated from Purdue University, and ignoring the conventional thinking of the time
 BLUM-Anita. On April 2, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Harold J. Blum. She will be profoundly missed by her family & friends. Rest in peace, Anita. Service Monday, 3 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave.       
 EHRLICH-Evalyn Frumkin. An exquisite woman who graced us with her presence for 62 years, she lost her battle with cancer March 30, 2003. Eve pursued her storied career as an executive producer as she lived her lifewith unmatched energy, style and grace. Her love of film and travel was only 
 FEINSTEIN-Lillian. On April 3, 2003. Beloved wife of Dr. Clifford, loving mother of Barbara Feinstein and Joan Winograd, dear sister of Enid Klass, adoring grandmother of Max and Sara Winograd. Her body was donated to Weill Medical School. Memorial service, Sunday, April 6, 7 PM, at The Hes
 HANDELSMAN - Joyce Jarcho. Of Palm Beach, FL, on April 3, 2003. ''A woman of valor,'' to quote her grandson. Graveside service at 11 AM, Monday, April 7, Mt. Carmel Cemetery, Queens, NY. With love, her children, Lauren (Steve) Messinger, Gail Bruckstein, Ivan Messinger, Charles Jarcho Messi
 LEADER-Sylvia Z., 89. Beloved mother of Jonathan and Dina Leader, wife of the late Milton R. Leader, and grandmother of Jessica, Amanda, Lyuba, and Marc, died peacefully at home on April 4, 2003. Sylvia Leader was a graduate of The Fieldston School, class of 1932, and of Barnard College, wh
 ROBINOWITZ-Arleen Shub. Passed April 2, 2003 at age 75. She and Alvin Robinowitz, her husband of 25 years, lived in Florida. Her first husband, Dr. Harold Shub, a cardiologist in Manhattan, passed away in 1976. In addition to her husband she is survived by five children, eight grandchildren
 SALMON-Rosemary Kennedy. Passed away early Saturday morning from heart failure. She was born in Albany, NY, to Evelyn M. and Thomas P. Kennedy. A graduate of Kenwood Convent of The Sacred Heart and Parsons School of Design where she majored in costume design and illustration. Afterwards, sh
 SCAGLIA-Dr. Gustina, NYC. March 21, 2003. Of Glastonbury, CT. where she was born August 19, 1916, daughter of Constante and Teresa Scaglia. She received her BFA from Rhode Island School of Design, MA. and Ph.D from NYU Institute of Fine Arts, taught at Briarcliff H.S. and Junior College, Mi
 SOBEL-Claire Sylvia. Long Island's first female broker, established Claire Sobel Realty in 1957, passed away April 1, 2003. Wife to Joseph, sister, mother, grandmother and great - grandmother. Claire lived her life bringing joy as a loving and caring woman. Lifetime Hadassah member. She was
 SUZUKI-Alice. The Union Settlement staff and Board of Directors deeply mourn the loss of Alice Suzuki, 90, the first and longtime director of the Union Washington Community Center, founded in 1956. Born in Los Angeles, Alice was interned with other Japanese-Americans after Pearl Harbor. Tha
 WENDER - Dorothea Schmidt. Professor Emeritus of Classics at Wheaton College. Died January 13 in Ma. Dory will be remembered for her love of learning, humor, strong will and devotion to her daughters. A memorial will be held at the Unitarian Church in Norton, Ma. on Saturday, April 19, 2003
 FRIEDMAN-Clara. It has been one sad and lonely year since the death of my beloved wife, who was a mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. She was a gentle and gallant lady who was admired and deeply loved by those lucky enough to have known her. She left us a legacy of love and a lifetime
 DOLAN-Margaret M. On April 5, 2003, at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Thomas M. Dolan. Loving mother of Eugene P. Dolan and Catherine Miskell and the late Judith and Thomas Dolan. Grandmother of Thomas, Patrick, Tracy and Robert and greatgrandmother of Everett and Gavin. Friends may call 
 GALANTER-Wynne Leslie, Ph.D. Passed away on April 5, 2003. Beloved wife of Marc. Loving mother of Cathryn and Margit and grandmother of Ben. Also survived by her dearest sister Patti and mother Florence. Wynne taught family therapy at NYU and Mount Sinai Medical Schools and cared for her pa
 MARQUIT-Gloria. Beloved wife of Harold. Devoted mother of Richard and Stacy, Andrea and Gordon, Evan and Laura. Loving grandmother of Amanda, Adam and Elisabeth. Graveside service at Mt. Ararat Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY, Monday, April 7, 11 AM. Memorial service to be announced. Donations in
 PARGAMENT - Hilda (nee Schmeltzer). Died on April 5, 2003, after a long and courageous battle with emphysema. She was proceeded by her husband David and son Joseph. She is survived by her daughter Frances (Paul) daughter-in-law, grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. She was a woman of
 SUZUKI-Alice K. Passed away on April 2, 2003, at age 91. She is survived by her sisters Florence of Columbus, OH, and Edna of New York City. Alice was born in Los Angeles, CA, Febuary 3, 1912. Received her education graduating from UCLA in 1933. Received a Masters Degree in Social Work from
 DOLAN-Margaret M. On April 5, 2003, at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Thomas M. Dolan. Loving mother of Eugene P. Dolan and Catherine Miskell and the late Judith and Thomas Dolan. Grandmother of Thomas, Patrick, Tracy and Robert and greatgrandmother of Everett and Gavin. Friends may call 
 DUNCAN - Barbara Doyle. The International Council of The Museum of Modern Art expresses great sadness upon learning of the passing of Barbara Duncan. A member of the Council since 1964, Barbara was a passionate advocate of the art of Latin America. She was a key part of our Program Committe
 GALANTER - Wynne. The New York University Child Study Center mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague Dr. Wynne Galanter. She was a gifted family therapist and an extraordinary teacher. We extend our deepest sympathy to her husband Marc and their daughters Cathryn and Margit. Harold S. Kop
 KLEIN-Leonore. Born September 4, 1916 in New York, NY. Beloved daughter of Isadore and Sadie Glotzer. Wife of Joseph Klein (deceased). Mother of Judith Klein Stenn (deceased), survived by her son Robert and his wife Kathleen, her grandchildren Rebecca, Benjamin, Abraham, Naomi, Joseph and N
 MAUL-Kathleen O'Callaghan of Dix Hills, NY on April 5, 2003 after 52 years of a family-filled and wonderful life. Executive Director of United Cerebral Palsy. Beloved wife of George. Loving mother of Brehan, Meaghan and Katharine. Dear sister of Maureen Davies, Mary Pat Sullivan, Jerry and 
 SLIFKA-Sylvia. Passed away Sunday, April 6th, 2003 after a long and lovely life. Adored wife of the late Joseph Slifka. Loving mother of Alan and Barbara Slifka. Grandmother of Michael, Randolph and David, and great grandmother of Grace and Joshua. Services private. Family receiving Tuesday
 SONTAG - Gertrude. You were a special grandmother to me. Your style, thoughtfulness and wisdom will not be forgotten. You were an example for all who knew you. Rest peacefully, Ellen SONTAG-Gertrude. Our trips down South will not be the same without our Florida Nana. We were so prou
 MAUL-Kathleen. Adults and Children with Learning and Developmental Disabilities, Inc. (ACLD) mourns the passing of Kathy Maul, Executive Director, United Cerebral Palsy of Suffolk. A true advocate for people with disabilities, Kathy was a leader in the field of developmental disabilities. S
 ROOS-Clara (Cee Gee). Died peacefully in her sleep early Saturday morning March 15, 2003. Born in Peoria, IL, Clara Gertrude was the daughter of Gertrude Bennett Bloom and Henry Tonkey Bloom. Predeceased by her husband Seymour and daughter Sally Dene Ross Schneck. C.G. is survived by her so
 SLIFKA-Sylvia. Passed away Sunday, April 6th, 2003 after a long and lovely life. Adored wife of the late Joseph Slifka. Loving mother of Alan and Barbara Slifka. Grandmother of Michael, Randolph and David, and great grandmother of Grace and Joshua. Services private. Family receiving Tuesday
 Anita Borg, a computer scientist who devoted much of her career to the advancement of women in computer science, died on Sunday at her mother's home in Sonoma, Calif. She was 54. The cause was brain cancer, said her husband, Winfried Wilcke. Although highly respected as a co
 GAY - Elisabeth Feitler. Passed away at her home after a short illness on April 6, 2003. She was the mother of Cathy and Jill Gay and Paul Mareth, and the grandmother of Leda, Joanna, Danielle, Natasha and Joeli. A private celebration of her life will take place on Friday, April 11. For mor
 GREENBERG - Judy. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Judy Greenberg. She was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to her entire family.       
 JUNGER-Agnes. From Buenos Aires to New York. Admiration always, for her courage, wisdom and friendship. Chilly Eberli and Family       
 KAUFMAN - Annette R. (Dickie). Age 96 on April 8, 2003. One of a kind with a very big heart. Always giving to others, kind and generous from the bottom of her heart. A dynamic person, retired as a prominent milliner with Hattie Carnegie and Henri Bendel. She adored life and was very much lo
 ORSCHEL-Mrs. Albert K., the former Peggy Rauh of New York City, New York, wife of the late prominent corporation attorney, Albert K. Orschel, born July 16, 1915, died April 9, 2003, at her home in Chicago, Illinois. She is survived by her daughter, Lynn Orschel, son, Alan (Nora Mitchell) Or
 STEINBERG-Lillian. Beloved wife of the late Martin (Moe). Cherished friend of Arkadie, Elaine, Nancy and Tamara Pikulik. Services at ''Boulevard - Riverside'', Chapels, 1895 Flatbush Avenue (at Avenue L), Brooklyn, New York, Friday at 9:30 A.M. STEINBERG-Lillian. A universally admir
 Jutta Hipp, a jazz pianist from Germany who had a short, celebrated career in the 1950's playing in New York nightclubs and making records for the Blue Note label, then turned her back on jazz to become a dressmaker, died on Monday at her home in Queens. She was 78. The cause has no
 HALLIGAN-Grace. On April 9, 2003. Born Salem, MA on October 23, 1911. Wife of the late Raymond E. (Custodian Engineer). Mother of Ruth (Kathleen Talbert), Bethe, the late Susan, Maura (Alan Reisman), and Betty Kenny. Grandmother of Yale Reisman (LCpl USMC in Iraq), Zachary Reisman and Caili
 HOLLDORF - Audrey. The Producer Circle Company extends heartfelt sympathy to our colleague Maryanne Dittmann, her sister Virginia and brother William on the loss of their mother. Graced with warmth and humor, Audrey was a cherished friend to all of us for many years. With deepest condolence
 KAUFMAN - Annette R. (Dickie). Age 96 on April 8, 2003. One of a kind with a very big heart. Always giving to others, kind and generous from the bottom of her heart. A dynamic person, retired as a prominent milliner with Hattie Carnegie and Henri Bendel. She adored life and was very much lo
 KRASNOFF - Ruth (nee Schwartz), on April 9, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel. Loving mother of Joan Carrobis and Frank Smith. Also survived by her loving grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Reposing at Leo F. Kearns, 6140 Woodhaven Blvd, Rego Park Sunday 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Funeral Mon
 MACOIR - Seraphine. Just four months short of her 100th birthday, Maman passed away of natural causes on April 9, 2003. Widow of Augustin Macoir of Brussels, Belgium, she had lived in Rye, N.Y. for 25 years. She is survived by her cherished daughters Jeanny Roth (Michael) and Irene Dupont (
 MAUL-Kathleen O. With deepest regret and sorrow, we mourn the loss of our Executive Director, mentor, friend and inspiration. Kathy's respect and compassion for all people, and fierce commitment to the rights of individuals with disabilities, remain unsurpassed. We share our grief with her 
 PHILLIPS-Anna (nee Thomas). Of Nutley, NJ on April 8, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Sandy Phillips, mother of Janet Gardner, grandmother of Samuel and Matthew. Funeral from the Biondi Funeral Home of Nutley, 540 Franklin Ave on Saturday at 9:00AM. A funeral service at St. Paul's Congregati
 SEIDENBERG-Judy. A woman of great kindness, whose friendship was dear to all she knew. A poet, fitness guru and lover of life. Beloved office manager of 18 years for Dr. Jonathan Z. Charney. Your wisdom, spirit and generosity will be sorely missed. Funeral services will be held April 11, at
 SPIESSBACH-Sister Joseph Dolores, beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, Convent of Mary the Queen, died Wednesday, April 9, 2003. She is the dear sister of Rosemary and Joseph Spiessbach. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark Street, Yonkers, NY on Friday 1-8 P.M. Funeral M
 ZORINA-Vera. The Board of Directors and Staff of The Santa Fe Opera note with enormous sadness the death of Vera Zorina. Vera Zorina had a long association with the company, first as performer and director, and then as a member of the Board of Directors. She was an Honorary Director at the 
 GRUBER-Sylvia, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. It is with deep sorrow and regret we mourn the loss of our sisterin-law and aunt, Sylvia Gruber, on Friday, April 11, 2003. Sylvia's great courage and resilience in the face of her constant pain over many years was an inspiration to all who knew her. 
 HARRISON-Myra. Beloved wife of Leonard J. and mother of Keith and Evan. She will always be remembered as a loving and caring ''woman of valour''. Services at Parkside Memorial Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Ave, Brooklyn on Sunday, April 13 at 10AM.       
 HOLLDORF - Audrey. The Producer Circle Company extends heartfelt sympathy to our colleague Maryanne Dittmann, her sister Virginia and brother William on the loss of their mother. Graced with warmth and humor, Audrey was a cherished friend to all of us for many years. With deepest condolence
 HOUGHTON-Laura Richardson, 102, died quietly April 9, 2003, at her home in Corning, NY. Wife of Amory Houghton, former Chairman of Corning Glass Works and American Ambassador to France under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mrs. Houghton was born in Providence, RI. A graduate of Milton Acade
 KASS-Judith Kaufman on April 11, 2003 in Providence, RI. Wife of Daniel Kass of West Palm Beach, FL. Loving wife of the late Herman Kaufman. Beloved mother of Jane Kaufman Sacks, Joan Kaufman Levine, and Jonathan Kaufman. Adored grandmother of Matthew, Benjamin, Joseph, Rose, Isaac and Anna
 Vera Zorina, a dancer and actress who starred in ballets, films and stage musicals choreographed by her first husband, George Balanchine, and whose mix of glamour and culture made her prominent in a variety of theatrical and musical fields, died on Wednesday at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. Sh
 ALLEN-Ruth, on April 7, 2003, in Westminster, VT. Dear friend and mentor, talented psychotherapist. She lived a life full of music, gardening and travel. Fiercely independant. Generous spirit who loved gathering people to share the good things of life. Her impact has changed us all. B. & B.
 BLEIER-Jeanette G. Mrs. Richard M. Bleier, 85, of Chappaqua, NY, passed away at her home in Walnut Creek, CA, on April 11, following a long illness. Mrs. Bleier was a founding member and President of Temple Beth El in Chappaqua, NY, and a past President of District 3, New York State, of the
 BRONSTER-Natalie J. Died April 11. Daughter of Dr. Reuben Finkelstein and Mayme (Manishevitz) Finkelstein, her life was devoted to her family and Jewish causes. Widow of Col. Walter Bronster, she is survived by her sons Stephen, David and Jeffrey, and granddaughters Michelle and Samantha. L
 DEUTSCH-Minnette Cutler. 97. Wife of the late Jonas Deutsch. Died April 11, 2003. Survived by her daughters Claire Friedlander of Stamford, CT, and Ellen Alexander, of Oceanside, LI; grandsons Jeffrey Friendlander of Paramus, NJ, Joel Friedlander of Wilmington, DE, Alan Alexander of Hunting
 FERON-Flora (nee Trostler). Peacefully on April 4th. Six months after joyously celebrating her 100th birthday at Meadow Lakes, Hightstown, NJ. Born in Manhattan, she was the widow of James J. Feron, (1970) with whom she worked at the Racquet Shop, Stephen J. Feron, Inc., now Feron's, for ne
 GRUBER-Sylvia. Of Tamarac, FL, formerly of Roslyn Heights, NY, passed away on April 11, 2003. She is survived by her loving husband of 55 years, Maurice; beloved children, son Philip (Carole) Gruber of New City, NY, daughter, Alice (Barry) Glassman of Boca Raton, FL; grandchildren, Adam and
 HOLLDORF - Audrey. The Producer Circle Company extends heartfelt sympathy to our colleague Maryanne Dittmann, her sister Virginia and brother William on the loss of their mother. Graced with warmth and humor, Audrey was a cherished friend to all of us for many years. With deepest condolence
 HOWLEY-Edith, 98. Daughter of Martin Howley of Greenwich, died March 30. She is survived by her sister Elizabeth Ahlstrand of Vero Beach, FL. A devoted aunt, great-aunt and great-great aunt to Donna Ahlstrand, Patricia Kropp and Richard Buchta and to Jennifer, Marty, Douglas, Gretchen and l
 KASS-Judith Kaufman on April 11, 2003 in Providence, RI. Wife of Daniel Kass of West Palm Beach, FL. Loving wife of the late Herman Kaufman. Beloved mother of Jane Kaufman Sacks, Joan Kaufman Levine, and Jonathan Kaufman. Adored grandmother of Matthew, Benjamin, Joseph, Rose, Isaac and Anna
 KEATING-Mildred. On April 12, 2003. New York City school teacher for over 40 years. Beloved wife of the late John (Jack) Keating. Loving mother of Rev. Timothy F. Keating, Alice Keating-Sahner and the late Barbara Anne Novak. Also survived by her dear grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. V
 LUCY-Mary Louise, 80, on March 18, 2003 in Chapel Hill, NC. Born in Kentucky, she retired as Butler Librarian at Columbia University. Mary Lou was a fine, good woman-and funny besides. Friends of Mary Lou       
 SHAPIRO - Berniece (nee Rubenstein). Died April 12, 2003, at age 83 in the comfort of her daughter's home. She was the beloved wife of the late Murray Shapiro. Loving mother of Andrew Shapiro and Donna D'Andraia, mother-in-law to Anthony D'Andraia and Sylvia Shapiro, grandmother to Rocco, A
 STEVENS-Edith S. on April 3, 2003. Lived in Laguna Beach, CA. Daughter of Helen B. Beinecke and the late Walter A. Schiffer. Survived by her husband P. Nicholas Bradley, son John W. and daughter E. Helen Marcos, beloved grandmother of John Patrick and Lillie Ann Marcos. She was a long time 
 WELLENS-Josephine Harrington died peacefully at home among family in Fremont, CA on March 30, 2003. The daughter of Irish immigrant parents, Jo grew up in Manhattan, the third of five children. She met the love of her life, Arthur Wellens, while working at the Normandy Theater. They married
 BERKOWITZ-Gertrude (Nana). Great Neck, NY. Died on April 13. As a 97-year old, she was always the life of the party. She will be sorely missed by her children, Norma Polatnick, Janet Rudnick and Sammy Berkowitz, her seven grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. Services Tuesday, 12 noon,
 COULSON-Edith de Rham. Peacefully on Wednesday, 9th April, age 69, at the Trinity Hospice, London. Beloved mother of Henry, Diana and Amanda, grandmother of Dylan, Charlie and Emily. A celebration of her life with her family and many friends will be held at the end of May. Any donations are
 EAGLE-Helen. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Helen Eagle. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, Manny, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, Pres. Leon Fassler, Secretary       
 GINSBERG-Ida Robbins. On April 13, 2003, in NYC. Beloved wife of the late Mitchell I. Ginsberg. She is survived by a sister, Anne Cheslow of Sierra Madre, CA, and six nieces and nephews. She will always be remembered for her warm smile and cheerful presence. The kindness and friendliness th
 GUTTERMAN - Dolly. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 KEATING-Mildred. On April 12, 2003. New York City school teacher for over 40 years. Beloved wife of the late John (Jack) Keating. Loving mother of Rev. Timothy F. Keating, Alice Keating-Sahner and the late Barbara Anne Novak. Also survived by her dear grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. V
 KENNEDY - Lilian Tarbell (Greta). Died peacefully in her sleep at Riddle Memorial Hospital in Media, PA, in the early hours of her 96th birthday on April 10th. Among many charities, Mrs. Kennedy was a state and national officer of the Daughters of the British Empire. She is survived by a br
 ROBB - Audrey Wagstaff. Died peacefully on April 11, 2003, following a long illness. Predeceased by her husband J. Hampden Robb. She is survived by her devoted daughters, Diana Robb McDowell and Christy Robb, her son-inlaw, Tony McDowell, and her two grandsons, Robb and Alex McDowell. She i
 GELLMAN - Zelda. Passed away peacefully at home on April 13, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Norman. Loving and devoted mother of Lance & Caren. Adored grandmother of Melissa, Glenn, Spencer and Kimberly. A woman with unmistakable flair, a passion & zest for life, a tremendous sense of humor
 KENNEDY - Lilian Tarbell (Greta). Died peacefully in her sleep at Riddle Memorial Hospital in Media, PA, in the early hours of her 96th birthday on April 10th. Among many charities, Mrs. Kennedy was a state and national officer of the Daughters of the British Empire. She is survived by a br
 LIEBERSON - WOLFE - Brigit ta. The Board of Directors of the George Balanchine Foundation mourn the passing of our friend and fellow Board Member, Brigitta LiebersonWolfe, professionally known as Vera Zorina. Her contribution to dance and theatre on the ballet stage, on Broadway, and in Hol
 MORRIS-Kathy Lee. On April 14, 2003, in Boston, MA. Devoted daughter of Helen and Henry. Loving sister of Larry. She will be cherished by all who ever knew her. Funeral services at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad St., Mt. Vernon, NY, Wednesday, April 16, 11:30 AM. In lieu of flower
 NEBENZAHL-Nancy Baar. It is with deep sorrow and regret that we mourn the passing of Nancy Baar Nebenzahl of Glen Head, NY, & Lake Worth, FL. Talented artist, sculptor and rug maker. Beloved mother of Marcie Aiuvalasit, James and Andrew Nebenzahl, mother-inlaw of Anthony Aiuvalasit, Sue Mol
 PARNES - BIRNBAUM - Mar cia (nee Gabor). Born in 1930 in Brooklyn, NY, longtime resident of Boca Raton, FL and Englewood, NJ, passed away on April 9, 2003 at her home in Florida. Loving wife of the late Burton Parnes. Cherished and beloved mother to her three sons, Howard, Fred and Mitchell
 ROBB - Audrey Wagstaff. Died peacefully on April 11, 2003, following a long illness. Predeceased by her husband J. Hampden Robb. She is survived by her devoted daughters, Diana Robb McDowell and Christy Robb, her son-inlaw, Tony McDowell, and her two grandsons, Robb and Alex McDowell. She i
 ROSS-Maggie. Age 62 of Nashville, TN. Gracefully died March 28th, 2003. Maggie is survived by her husband of 46 years, George Ross; her children, Georganna Husband and Micheal Ross; her mother Margaret Patton; her grandchildren Coleman Ross, Gracyn Husband and Riley Husband; her siblings, M
 SKALET - ROBINSON - Selma (nee Hurwitz), 91, of Bal Harbour, FL., and White Plains, NY, on April 13. Survived by Ira and Ellie Skalet, John H. and Barbara Skalet, grandchildren Paul and Francine Skalet, Joanne and Ken Sarama, Howard and Kelly Skalet, Adam and Kalli Skalet and six great - gr
 CHARNOW - Miriam Sare, age 79, of Reston, VA died on April 12, 2003 at her home. She was born in New York City, NY on September 9, 1923 to the late Harry L. and Hadassah Dondes Sare. She will be missed by Sally and Gary, Karen and Charlie and their children: Noam, Mika, Ian and Hannah and h
 DIXON-Sylvia. On April 14, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Robert S. Dixon. Loving mother of Clara Kozol and Robert Shapiro. Cherished grandmother of Maggie, Eric, Lauren, Peter, Kenny, Jesse and JayJay. Proud greatgrandmother of five. Admired teacher at Frederick Douglas Jr. High School. He
 EDELMAN-Betty. Beloved wife of the late Sydney. Devoted mother of Pat (Alan) Schwartz and Arlene (Mark) Bernstein. Adored grandmother of Steven Schwartz, Robert (Mary) Schwartz, Brad (Tama) Bernstein, Emily (Barry) Baum and loving great-grandmother of Spencer and Justin Bernstein. Services 
 GINSBERG-Ida. The Faculty, Advisory Council and Alumni Association and staff of the Columbia University School of Social Work note with profound sorrow the death of Ida Robbins Ginsberg on April 13, at her home in New York City. The wife of our late Dean and Professor Emeritus, Mitchell I. 
 GLAZEROFF-Martha. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Steven Markowitz, President       
 KILLERLANE-Madeline C., 86. Formerly of Brooklyn. Passed away on April 15, 2003. at her home in White Plains, NY. Madeline was the much loved wife of the late James. She was the dear mother to Rose and James. The Beloved grandmother of Christina and James III. Madeline was retired from the 
 ROBB-Audrey W. The officers, employees, agents of Brown Harris Stevens are deeply saddened by the death of our friend and colleague Audrey W. Robb. Our sincerest condolences to her family.       
 BITTING-Betty B., 80, of Longboat Key, FL, died April 15, 2003. Born July 20, 1922 in Staten Island, NY. She had been a resident of Longboat Key for 20 years coming from New York City. She was employed with the law firm of Parker, Harrison and Dietz in Sarasota, Florida. She was a veteran o
 BLAINE - Katharine Morti mer died April 14th. She was 80. The cause was cancer. Mrs. Blaine was a descendant of John Jay the first Chief Justice of the United States and Robert Livingston, the first Governor of New York colony. She lived in Tuxedo Park, Southampton and Manhattan where she g
 CHESTER-Helen Cronkhite, 84, of Greenwich, CT, died March 29, 2003. Survived by her husband of 62 years, Hawley T. Chester Jr. of Greenwich; two sons, Hawley T. Chester III and Peter M. Chester, both of Atlanta; daughter, Tracy Chester, of Westport, CT; two grandchildren and two great-grand
 COHEN-Norman G. Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Norman Cohen, beloved father of Nancy Roberts. We extend our deepest condolences to Nancy and her family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 FRANK-Ellen. MRL Agency mourns the passing of Ellen Frank, daughter of our beloved associate, Mae Sandler. Our heartfelt condolences to Mae, her husband Arthur and her son Norman, as well as to Ellen's cherished children Arielle and Marissa. Funeral services Friday 11 AM, Gutterman's, Woodb
 PITT-Jane Ries. Died peacefully on April 16, 2003, at age 64. Predeceased by her husband Martin Pitt, she is survived by her loving children Jennifer and Eric. She committed her life to her family and friends, and the medical treatment of children, and had a passion for the arts, music, and
 REINER - Elaine, actress, died on Monday, April 14th. Daughter of (late) Harry and Emma Oshrin, sister of (late) Albert Oshrin, wife of (late) Manny Reiner and of (late) Hal Eaton. Survived by her sister Evelyn (Pat) Glazer, brother-in-law Irving Glazer, six nieces and nephews, nine great-n
 HEFFNER-Ruth B. On April 16, 2003 at age 90. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Heffner. Loving mother of Lenore Briskman, Rhoda Becker and John Heffner. Cherished grandmother of eight and great grandmother of seven. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday April 18th
 HELLER - Grace. Beloved wife of the late Frank. Adored mother of Carol and Herbert Corbin and Nancy Heller and Holly Gewandter. Dear sister of Judge Seymour and Alvin Robinowitz. Loving and adored grandmother of Jeffrey and Suzanne Corbin, Leslie and Paul Goldberg and Haley Gewandter and mo
 PITT-Jane Ries. Died peacefully on April 16, 2003, at age 64. Predeceased by her husband Martin Pitt, she is survived by her loving children Jennifer and Eric. She committed her life to her family and friends, and the medical treatment of children, and had a passion for the arts, music, and
 REINER - Elaine, actress, died on Monday, April 14th. Daughter of (late) Harry and Emma Oshrin, sister of (late) Albert Oshrin, wife of (late) Manny Reiner and of (late) Hal Eaton. Survived by her sister Evelyn (Pat) Glazer, brother-in-law Irving Glazer, six nieces and nephews, nine great-n
 SILBERKLEIT-Nicole. Died suddenly on April 16. She was such an important part of the lives of her children Suzanne, Michele and Martine; her sons-in-law Jordan, Rob and Charles; her grandchildren Jake, Nick, Alexander, Caroline and Romy; and her cousins Cecile, Philippe and Renee, Alexander
 SOBEL-Gertrude, M.D. 87, died peacefully in her home on April 16, 2003. Beloved mother of John, Jane and Bart. Mother-in-law of Maddie, Arthur and Lynda. Cherished grandmother of Jeff, Beth, Eric, Kacey, Zachary, Stephanie and Robin. Beloved sister of May Kross and the late Jewel Josephs. S
 TORNAMBE - Rose Marie (nee Gresio) suddenly on April 14, 2003. Beloved wife to the late Dr. Paul Tornambe. Loving mother of Paul, Eugene, Ronald and Robert. Cherished grandmother of seven. Funeral on Monday, 8:30 A.M., from the Arlington Funeral Home, Inc., 83-15 Parsons Boulevard, Jamaica,
 GOODZEIT-Sylvia. An eternal optimist. A friend to everyone. A comfort. A smile. A Great Aunt. A happy, blessed memory. We will miss our Aunt Sylvia and will carry her in our hearts and souls. Our deepest condolences to Margaret, Dan, Jamie, Elizabeth, Steven, Aunt Lilly & Uncle Al. Starr an
 HELLER - Grace. Beloved wife of the late Frank. Adored mother of Carol and Herbert Corbin and Nancy Heller and Holly Gewandter. Dear sister of Judge Seymour and Alvin Robinowitz. Loving and adored grandmother of Jeffrey and Suzanne Corbin, Leslie and Paul Goldberg and Haley Gewandter and mo
 LOVENTHAL-Doris A. On April 15, 2003 in Boston, after a courageous battle with cancer. Survived by her son Robert and Deborah Loventhal, her daughter Amy and Richard Gordon, grandchildren Lesley, David, Kenny and Lisa, and her sisters Louise and Paul Jacobson, and Karen and Alan Glazer. Als
 Margaret Formby, a rancher's daughter whose collection of cowgirl costumes, stored in the basement of a local library, evolved into the National Cowgirl Museum and Hall of Fame, died on April 10 at her home in Hereford, Tex. She was 73. She apparently hit her head in a fall in her b
 BERENSON - Marion. Be loved wife of the late Robert Berenson. Loving mother of Donna and Steve (Deanna). Adoring grandmother of Michaela. Dear sister of Betty Bettigole. Devoted aunt and sister-in-law. We love you and will miss you forever. Funeral services at BallardDurand, White Plains, N
 CASEY-Catherine Elizabeth. On April 17th, 2003. Beloved wife of Francis G. Casey Jr., M.D., daughter of the late James and Mary Byrne. Mother of the late Cathleen Casey O'Connell and the late Elizabeth Frances Casey. She is also survived by her sister, Therese McArdle, and her children, F. 
 FUCHSBERG-Shirley G. On April 18, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Judge Jacob D. Fuchsberg, cherished mother of Rosalind Kaufman, Susan Raphaelson, Janet Levine and Alan Fuchsberg; proud grandmother of Gale and Michael Kaufman, Diana Schutt, Howard and Dr. Todd Raphaelson, Dr. Alissa Sukoff,
 GILLETTE-Gina, whose age was variously noted as 21, 29, 52 and early 80's, died of natural causes on March 16th, surrounded by her family as the sun set and the full moon rose in Granite Bay, California. Born in New York City to Josephine and D.D. Vincent, Gina was an artist by training, wi
 GUTTERMAN-Dolly L. Of Great Neck, NY, died April 12, 2003. She was the wife of the late Matthew M. Gutterman. Beloved mother of Merle and Frank Holstein and Charlotte Fishkind Leigh. Grandmother of Andy and Rusty Fishkind, Julie Saypoff, Cheri, Renee, Paul, Michele, David Holstein. Great-gr
 HELLER-Grace; wonderful mother, grandmother, great grandmother and friend. Grace exemplified her name. Muriel & Bernard Goldberg       
 KATZ-Theresa (Toby). We mourn the loss of our loving friend. Her spirit will be in our hearts and minds forever. Merna and Richard Miller       
 LOVENTHAL-Doris A. On April 15, 2003 in Boston, after a courageous battle with cancer. Survived by her son Robert and Deborah Loventhal, her daughter Amy and Richard Gordon, grandchildren Lesley, David, Kenny and Lisa, and her sisters Louise and Paul Jacobson, and Karen and Alan Glazer. Als
 RABIN-Rhoda Shapiro, died April 11th. She was 76. As described in her book, ''At the Beginning: Teaching Piano to the Very Young Child,'' she developed an innovative approach to teaching piano to 3 to 8 year-olds. She taught piano pedagogy and children at several universities. She was a gra
 SVENSEN-Eli (nee Baldershiem). Died peacefully on April 14, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Odd. Survived by her loving son Terry. Visitation Tuesday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at Clavin Funeral Home, 7722 4th Avenue, Brooklyn. Religious services Tuesday, 8 PM, at the funeral home. Cremation Wednesday
 TOWER-Elizabeth H. (nee Hasemeier), age 78, died Tuesday, April 15, 2003. Before retiring she was employed by North Shore Medical Group in Huntington, N.Y., as a Medical Lab Administrator. She is survived by her son, John (Janet) of Yardley, PA, and granddaughter, Katie. Services were held 
 VORGANG-Olly. Died April 9, 2003, in NYC. Beloved by friends and relatives worldwide; she was a great lady.       
 BENNACK - Luella. Mrs. Frank (Luella) Bennack, age 67, of San Antonio and their ranch in Texas Hill Country, died Thursday, April 17, 2003. Luella and Frank resided in San Antonio until 1975, when they moved to the New York area and Connecticut. In recent years they returned to San Antonio 
 BUTLER-Kimiko K. On April 17, 2003, age 72. Born in Tokyo, moved to US with her husband, the late Jack G. Butler. Beloved mother of Jamie, mother - in - law of Kevin Wong, grandmother of Ryan, Caitlin and Alyssa. Services today, at Yannantuono Funeral Home, Mt. Vernon, NY, at 11 AM.       
 CASEY-Catherine Elizabeth. On April 17th, 2003. Beloved wife of Francis G. Casey Jr., M.D., daughter of the late James and Mary Byrne. Mother of the late Cathleen Casey O'Connell and the late Elizabeth Frances Casey. She is also survived by her sister, Therese McArdle, and her children, F. 
 FRANCISCUS - Marie - Louise. Professor Emeritus and former Director of Occupational Therapy at Columbia University. An outstanding educator, we are grateful for her leadership and contributions to Columbia's OT programs, and we will miss her friendship. Columbia University's Programs in Occ
 FUCHSBERG-Shirley. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed Founding Member. We extend deepest sympathy to her children Rosalind, Susan, Janet and Alan and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Norton D. Shargel Rabbi Emeri
 GOODWIN-Jacqueline Parsons. Author and journalist, died at Pennswood Village, Newtown, PA on March 27, 2003. She was the widow of Marquis James and of Francis Goodwin II of Hartford, CT. Memorial services will be in June at Pennswood.       
 HELLER-Grace. The Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York mourns the passing of Grace Heller, widow of the late Frank Heller, our former President, mother of Carol Corbin and grandmother of Jeffrey Corbin, our Board member. Mrs. Heller was a model of dedication to the Jewish community
 Nina Simone, a singer whose distinctively emotional style blended elements of jazz, gospel, blues, European art song and other influences, died yesterday at her home in Carry-le-Rouet, France, near Marseille. She was 70. Her manager, Clifton Henderson, said she had been ill for some
 BENNACK - Luella. Mrs. Frank (Luella) Bennack, age 67, of San Antonio and their ranch in Texas Hill Country, died Thursday, April 17, 2003. Luella and Frank resided in San Antonio until 1975, when they moved to the New York area and Connecticut. In recent years they returned to San Antonio 
 BERCZELLER - Marie. On April 19, in Los Angeles, CA. In her 99th year. Wife of 63 years of the late Richard. Mother of Peter. Momie of Paul and John. Mother-in-law of Helen. Mother-in-law of the late, still and always missed, Adrienne.       
 BLOOM-Pansy Modell. The incredible loving wife of Bernard, devoted mother to Peggy and David Gershon, Robin and David Gelles, Heidi and Kenneth Glass. Adored grandmother of Jessica and her husband Michael, Rachel, Alisha, Stefanie, Matthew, Jared and Brandon. Sister of author, B. Modell and
 FUCHSBERG-Shirley. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Shirley Fuchsberg, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation who was greatly admired for her extraordinary generosity. With her late husband, the Hon. Jacob D. Fuchsberg, Mrs. Fuchsb
 FUCHSBERG - Shirley G. Touro College Jacob D. Fuchsberg Law Center mourns the loss of our cherished friend, wise counselor, and generous benefactor. As a member of the Law School's Board of Visitors, Shirley was a source of strength and wisdom, providing leadership and guidance-always tempe
 GOODZEIT-Sylvia. She was my closest sister, my closest friend. She left wonderful memories of the special closeness that was ours for so many years. Our lives were intertwined. She will always be part of my life. Lily       
 HELLER-Grace. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a deeply beloved graceful lady whose devotion to the Albert Einstein College of Medicine Gift Shop was unique and unequaled, and whose service to the cause of higher Jewish education, in which she was a full partner with her 
 PITT-Jane, M.D. The faculty, staff, and students of Columbia University Health Sciences mourn the loss of a dear friend and esteemed colleague, Dr. Jane Pitt. A graduate of Radcliffe College and Harvard Medical School, Dr. Pitt had been a member of the Columbia University Health Sciences co
 VUJNOVICH-Mirjana (nee Lazich), 91, on April 19, 2003. Beloved wife for 62 years of George, mother of Xenia Wilkinson, grandmother of Julia. Her loss is deeply felt by family, friends, church and by the many refugees from her native Yugoslavia that she helped in America. Wake at Campbell Fu
 Luella M. Bennack, a supporter of many Texas and national charities and the wife of Frank A. Bennack Jr., vice chairman of the board of the Hearst Corporation and previously its chief executive, died on April 17 at her home in San Antonio. She was 67. The cause was an aneurysm, the 
 BENNACK - Luella. The Board and staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America extend their deepest sympathy to Frank A. Bennack, our longtime friend and generous supporter, and the entire Bennack family on their loss. Our thoughts and prayers are with you during this difficu
 DORMAN-Carol, of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Rockville Centre. On April 22, 2003 in NYC. Loving wife of Avram, devoted mother of Kenneth and Sandie, David and Gail, Ida, and Ellen and Ronald, proud grandmother of Rachel, Stephanie, Jessica, Matthew, Ricki, Jaclyn, Stacey and Jared. Funera
 EDELMAN-Madeline (Maddy). Beloved wife of Herb, loving mother of Mindy and Marc, loving mother-in-law of Rob, adoring Grandma of Ryan, devoted daughter of Bob and Elaine Silverman, and cherished sister of Les, lost her courageous fight, and succumbed on April 21, 2003. EDELMAN-Madel
 FUCHSBERG-Shirley. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Shirley Fuchsberg, a member of ADL Women's Division. We extend our condolences to her children and the entire family. Glen A. Tobias, National Chairman Abraham H. Foxman, National Director       
 RUBENFELD - Charlotte (nee Weissman), age 81 of Monsey, New York. She was born in New York and was united in marriage to the late Jack Rubenfeld. She is survived by daughters Marjorie Wetmore and Jayne Rubenfeld-Waldron; son, Stephen; six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren; brother
 AUGUSTINE-Rose. Manhattan School of Music is deeply saddened by the passing of our longtime friend and patron, Rose Augustine. She had a profound and positive impact on the School, leaving an enduring legacy. Her philanthropy and tireless support of the arts was an inspiration not only to g
 BLOOM-Pansy Modell. The incredible loving wife of Bernard, devoted mother to Peggy and David Gershon, Robin and David Gelles, Heidi and Kenneth Glass. Adored grandmother of Jessica and her husband Michael, Rachel, Alisha, Stefanie, Matthew, Jared and Brandon. Sister of Arthur B. Modell and 
 DORMAN-Carol. With a heavy heart, we mourn the loss of our dear sister-in-law and aunt Carol and our deepest sympathies are extended to her beloved husband, Avram and their children and grandchildren. Joan and Bob Goldberg, Phyllis and William Dorman Tema Ackerman & Families DORMAN 
 HEILBUT - Bertha. Best friend of her sons Anthony and Wilfred (Gail) and of her grandchildren Nicholas and Bretta. Loving wife of the late Otto Heilbut and devoted sister of the late Hans Lewinsky, Esq. During the 1930's, in her native Berlin, she and Otto assisted his cousin, the great Wil
 KESSLER-Mae, at age 87, of Lauderhill, FL., formerly of Queens. Beloved wife of late George. Loving mother of Iris (Stanley) Rabinowitz & David Kessler. The adored grandmother of Suzanne, Jeffrey, Lawrence, Scott, and Robin. Dear sister of Irving Josloff. Grace and beauty were in her every 
 KRAFT-Rhoda M., on April 22, 2003, of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Hackensack, New Jersey. Beloved wife of the late Marvin. Devoted mother of Richard E. Kraft and Melissa A. Kraft. Dear sister of Dr. Arthur Wein. Loving grandmother of Marlon & Simone. Service Friday 12:30 P.M. at Gutterman-M
 LANGNER-Eleonora (nee Kobryner), died April 22, 2003. Beloved wife of Carl, cherished mother of Margaret, devoted mother-of-law of Adam. Adored grandmother of David. Graveside service Friday, April 25, 2003, 11AM, Gates of Zion Cemetery, Monsey, NY. She will be deeply and lovingly missed. H
 ROSENBERG - Ruth, died April 21, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel. Devoted mother of Judy Schneiderman and Stephen & Harriet Rosenberg. Loving grandmother of Susan & Adam Eitelberg, David & Sheri Schneiderman, Marc & Ava Rosenberg, Bonnie & Evan Rayman and Evan Rosenberg. Adored Bubbe
 ROTH-Barbara (nee Peyster). Formerly of East Hills, New York. Passed away after a prolonged battle with lung cancer at age 75 in Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved wife and best friend of Charles for 54 years. Adoring mother of Karen and Susan (Greg). Devoted grandmother of Jessica and Madelynn. 
 Martha Wright Griffiths, a longtime United States representative who was a legend in Michigan Democratic politics and one of the most effective women's civil rights legislators of her day, died on Tuesday at her home in Armada, Mich. She was 91. Known for her sharp intellect and blu
 BROOKS-Paige, of Coral Springs, Florida, formerly of Armonk, NY, and Teaneck, NJ, on April 22. Devoted mother of Andrew and Emily Bauer. Loving sister of Joan Hillman and Amy Blau. She will be remembered as a wonderful teacher, magical artist and loving friend. May she rest in peace.       
 DAVIS - Veronica, died peacefully at home in Irvington, New York on April 23, 2003 after a long illness. She was the much loved sister of Father Bernard J. Campbell, CSP; Mrs. Margaretta Bruegger of Snowmass, CO. and Mrs. Ellen Appelle of Irvington, New York. She was the beloved aunt of Nic
 HELFGOTT-Hannah Rebetzin. The Yeshiva University family and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS) express sorrow upon the recent passing of a deeply cherished Jewish matriarch who was admired in the Bronx Jewish community and beyond. Together with her late beloved
 KAPLAN-Carolyn. On April 22, 2003, at home in Upper Montclair, N.J; daughter of the late Adeline and Arthur Geismar. She was an artist and interior designer. She is survived by Edgar, her partner and best friend since 16 years of age and her husband of over 46 years, her children Linda McDo
 MELLEN - Susan (Maier), age 57. Beloved wife and soul mate of Seymour Mellen. Adored and cherished mother of Richard Phillips. Devoted daughter of Antoinette Maier and the late Ernest (Tex) Maier. Fought bravely and taken too soon. Funeral private. MELLEN-Susan M. The Officers, Gove
 ROSENBERG - Ruth. With love and fond memories for our surrogate aunt and life long family friend. Our hearts and thoughts are with her children Judy, Stephen and Harriet and her beautiful grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. The Sollars and the Eisens       
 ROTH-Barbara (nee Peyster). Formerly of East Hills, New York. Passed away after a prolonged battle with lung cancer at age 75 in Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved wife and best friend of Charles for 54 years. Adoring mother of Karen and Susan (Greg). Devoted grandmother of Jessica and Madelynn. 
 STEARNS-John Sargent. On April 20, 2003, a resident of New York City and Stonington, CT. Managing Director of Bear Stearns. Beloved husband of Diane Hulton Stearns, devoted father of Elizabeth Anne Stearns, her husband David Blake Bansmer and John Sargent Stearns Jr. Cherished grandfather o
 SUPPER-Patricia McKeon Chace. Palm Beach philanthropist, died Wednesday April 23, 2003. Born in Palo Alto, California, graduate of The University of Oregon and lived throughout the world and the United States. She called Palm Beach and Greenwich, Connecticut home for the last 30 years. Patr
 WALTER-Frances D. April 24th, 2003. Reunited with her beloved husband Otto, who passed away in January after 55 years of marriage. Funeral Mass will be held Tuesday April 29 at 10AM at Holy Family Church, 315 E. 47 St. Contributions in lieu of flowers may be made to God's Love We Deliver, 1
 BROOKS-Paige, of Coral Springs, Florida, formerly of Armonk, NY, and Teaneck, NJ, on April 22. Devoted mother of Andrew and Emily Bauer. Loving sister of Joan Hillman and Amy Blau. She will be remembered as a wonderful teacher, magical artist and loving friend. May she rest in peace. Privat
 MENACHEM-Pearl Herbert, 89, of Sunny Isles, Florida, passed away April 24, 2003. Her beloved husband, Louis Menachem and son, Neil Menachem preceded her in death. Pearl is survived by her brother, Marvin Herbert, daughter - in - law, Barbara Menachem, grandchildren, Andrew, Fred, Seth Menac
 SPANO-Rose. The residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale note with sorrow the passing of Rose Spano, beloved mother of our dear friend, Andrew Spano, Westchester County Executive. Rose was a lovely woman, who always had a smile for everyone who knew her. We will miss
 WALSEY-Betty. Still loved. Still missed. Still setting the standard. We will never forget her gentility, understanding, and love. Milton, Elliot, Steve       
 AMORE-Phyllis Amy (nee Schneider), 49, of Coconut Creek, FL. Phyllis passed away Tuesday, April 22, 2003. Beloved daughter, wife, and sister. She is survived by her mother, Sylvia Schneider, husband Glenn Amore, sister Judy Schneider, and many relatives, including the Julian Gould family an
 AUGUSTINE-Rose L. Drisha Institute for Jewish Education mourns the passing of our founding donor, Rose L. Augustine. Her generosity and vision has made it possible for thousands of women to enrich their lives and the lives of others. May her memory be a blessing. Rabbi David S. Silber, Foun
 BOB-Edith A. On April 25, 2003. Beloved wife of Geoffrey. Mother of Melinda and Michael, sister of Marty, sister-in-law of Sharon, Marcia and Richie, aunt of Meri, Debra, David, Susan and Robert and cherished friend. She will remain alive in the memories of those she loved and those who lov
 CAPSOUTO - Eva. Born Rousso in 1919, Izmir, Turkey. Died April 17th, first day of Passover. Matriarch of Capsouto Freres Restaurant in Tribeca. Wife of Marco. Survived by her sons, Jacques, Sami and Albert, daughter-inlaw, three grandchildren, sister, nephews, nieces, and their offspring. S
 CHANKO - Gladys Brand. Died peacefully in her sleep April 25, 2003. Beloved mother and best friend of Carol Leifer Leeds. Adored mother-in-law of the late Mike Leeds. Grandmother ''Lolly'' to Debbie (Howard) LeiferSchwartz and Jerry (Debra) Leifer. Adored stepmother to Toni (Edward) Stern. 
 GETOFF-Isabelle Egrie (formerly Kocsis-Nizich) died April 17th in her 76th year. A courageous, accomplished woman-secular and religious (Unitarian) educator, psychoanalytic and Imago Relationship therapist. Mother of Ellen (and Tom), Janey (and Ross), grandmother of Evan, Alex and Michael, 
 LONDON-Pearl. On April 24, 2003 at age 87. Beloved wife of the late Ephraim. Loving mother of Peter. Dear sister of Beatrice Eytan. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Monday, April 28th, 7-9PM. Funeral services at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave at 65 St, Tuesday, 12
 MANDEL-Delores (nee Zimmerman), age 73, formerly of Freeport, NY, died April 25th in Tamarac, FL surrounded by her family. She will be greatly missed by Daniel, her devoted husband of 52 years. Much loved mother of Matt, Amy (Karen) and Jodi (Chris), and adored Nana of Mollie and Anna. Lovi
 MELLEN - Susan (Maier), age 57. Beloved wife and soul mate of Seymour Mellen. Adored and cherished mother of Richard Phillips. Devoted daughter of Antoinette Maier and the late Ernest (Tex) Maier. Fought bravely and taken too soon. Funeral private. MELLEN-Susan (Maier Phillips). Wit
 MELTZER-Amy Wane. Our deepest love and condolences to her devoted husband Peter on the loss of our beloved Amy, talented designer and restaurant critic. The power of her warmth, humor and generosity of spirit will sustain her bereaved family and many friends throughout the years. We will al
 MILNER - Dorothy Soule. Died at her home at Essex Meadows, Essex, CT on April 24, 2003 after a courageous bout with cancer. She was 87 years old. Mrs. Milner was born and raised in Syracuse, New York, the daughter of Oscar Frank and Dorothy Soule. She graduated from Westover School, Middleb
 SPANO-Rose. The residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale note with sorrow the passing of Rose Spano, beloved mother of our dear friend, Andrew Spano, Westchester County Executive. Rose was a lovely woman, who always had a smile for everyone who knew her. We will miss
 WERTHEIM - FREUND - Stef fi. We extend heartfelt condolences to Amelie Maslansky, Naomi Rottenberg and Bruce Wertheim on the loss of their beloved mother. One of the original founding officers of the National Womens Division, a Silver Founder together with her late husband, Dr. Martin, and 
 HAZAN - Leslie. To my daughter on her 40th birthday. I love you       
 BRECHER - Esther Grace Milchman. On April 25, 2003. A brave and talented woman who conquered what she could and dealt remarkably with the rest. A social worker, inspirational advocate for the disabled, but mostly Michael's devoted and loving mother. Services Monday, 1:15 PM, at ''The Rivers
 KIRCHBLUM-Lila. On April 27, 2003. Beloved wife of Harold. Cherished mother of Mark and Michael. Loving mother-in-law of Nancy and Caren. Adored grandmother of David, Eric, Matthew and Evan. Devoted sister to Pearl and Howard, Lenny and Claire. She will be deeply missed by all.       
 NEWHOUSE - Caroline. On April 26, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Theodore. Devoted grandmother of Amy Vermant Adler and Julie Lobel. Cherished great-grandmother of Jill and Emily Adler, and Joshua, Isacc, Jonathan and Sarah Lobel. Services Wednesday, April 30th, 10AM at Temple Emanu-El, 5th
 WALLACH-Sonia. On April 26, 2003, peacefully in her sleep. Beloved wife of the late George. Devoted sister of Anne. Loving mother of Dosh and Alan. Cherished grandmother of Alan, Douglas, Nicole, Peter and Jonathan, great-grandmother of Tristan, Ethan, Grace, Jake, Ian and Francesca. Loving
 Caroline H. Newhouse, a philanthropist and artist who was the widow of Theodore Newhouse, a co-founder of the Newhouse communications company, died on Saturday at her weekend home in Roxbury, Conn. She was 94 and lived in Manhattan. Her husband, whom she wed in 1956, and his brother
 Elaine Anderson Steinbeck, who was one of the first women to become a Broadway stage manager and who in later years kept bright the artistic torch of her late husband John Steinbeck, died on Sunday in Manhattan. She was 88 and lived in Manhattan and Sag Harbor, N.Y. Mrs. Steinbeck w
 DONOVAN - Florence. On April 26; died peacefully after a long, rich life. Survived by daughters Sally Madden and Winkie Plummer and three grandsons, Matthew, Andrew, and Peter Madden. She will be missed.       
 LERNER-Ellen Dale. On April 27, 2003, age 53. Touched by an angel. Loved by everyone who knew her. Mourned by her devoted husband, Kirk Miller, her stepdaughter, Laura Miller, who called her mother, her sister, Amy L. Jans, her ''sistie'', and her parents, Bette and Byron Lerner, who adored
 LONDON-Pearl. The Poetry Society of America wishes to pay tribute to Pearl London. Elegant and energetic proponent of the art of poetry, gifted and inspiring teacher, generous and devoted member of the Board of Governors of the Poetry Society of America. We mourn her and will miss her. Fune
 NEWHOUSE - Caroline. On April 26, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Theodore. Devoted grandmother of Amy Bermant Adler and Julie Bermant Lobel. Cherished greatgrandmother of Jill and Emily Adler, and Joshua, Isaac, Jonathan and Sarah Lobel. Services Wednesday, April 30th, 10AM at Temple Emanu-
 PRAIGROD-Gladys. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Gladys Praigrod, beloved sister of Edith Everett, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. We extend our deepest sympathies to Edith and her husband, Henry, and to the entire family.
 SANDERS-Mary Rosenfeld, 54 of New York died Sunday. Artist & organizer, sweet Mary was Administrative Coordinator, Department of Photographs at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. She had worked in MOMA's Film Department and in the 1980s as Director of Logistics, CBS News Special Events. For ma
 STEINBECK-Elaine A. On April 27, 2003 at age 88. Beloved wife of the late Nobel Laureate and Pulitzer Prize Winning Author, John Steinbeck. Mother of Waverly Scott Kaffaga and stepmother of Thomas Steinbeck and the late John Steinbeck IV. Grandmother of David Farber, Anderson Farber, Jebel 
 WARREN-Roberta Lounsbury, on April 26, 2003, of Summit, NJ, formerly of Short Hills, NJ, mother of Ann Farley Warren of Bridgewater, NJ., Ralph Lounsbury Warren, M.D., of Gallup, N.M., Sarah Warren Fenton of Basking Ridge, NJ, E. Houston Warren III, M.D., Ph.D., of Bainbridge Island, Wash.,
 Rose Augustine, a former chemistry teacher who with her husband revolutionized the world of the classical guitar by developing the nylon guitar string and who commissioned new works and underwrote concert series and competitions, died on April 21 in Manhattan. She was 93 and lived in Manhat
 ELDRIDGE-Barbara F. on April 28, 2003 in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late William Angevine Eldridge, mother of Janet E. Baldwin and Robert Huyck Eldridge, mother-in-law of Betsy Palmer Eldridge, grandmother of Benjamin H. Baldwin, Daniel H. and Cynthia B. Eldridge, and great grandmot
 GALLAGHER-Sr. Elizabeth, RSHM. Marymount School of New York mourns the death of Sr. Elizabeth Gallagher, RSHM. A teacher and colleague who influenced generations of students and parents, she joined the faculty at Marymount in 1926, the School's inaugural year, and stayed at the School until
 GOTTBETTER-Falene Simet. A courageous, elegant and radiant soul was lost to the world on April 28, 2003. Devoted wife of Paul. Steadfast sister to Linda Klein and like a sister to Sydell. Proud mother of Franklyn and Adam. Loving mother-in-law to Tracy and Lori. Adoring and generous grandmo
 NEWHOUSE-Caroline. Artists, Board, and staff of The Parsons Dance Company extend deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Caroline Newhouse, a continuous inspiration and motivating force for all of us. Dearest Caroline was always there for us with her wit, support and energy, and we wi
 ROMM-Rita W., of Albany, NY, died April 28, 2003. Loving mother and best friend to her daughter, Judy Krakower, and husband, Stephen. Devoted sister to Sylvia Alpert. Adored grandmother to Naomi, Jon and Ben. Cherished aunt to Jay Romm, Marsha Starsman, Carol Alpert and Ellen Alpert. Rememb
 RYCHTARIK-Gertrud. With sadness we report the passing of our dearly beloved mother, mother-in-law, and grandmother on April 28 in her 91st year. But we celebrate a life filled with goodness and compassion, with love and understanding, with vitality and joy of life, and with deep and long-la
 SEIDEN-Joan M. On April 28, 2003, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey. Cherished wife of Leonard of forty years. Devoted mother of Howard and Nina Seiden, and Mark and Michele Seiden. Adored grandmother of Steven, Annika, and Rachel. Loving sister of Dr. Michael a
 STEINBECK-Elaine A. On April 27, 2003 at age 88. Beloved wife of the late Nobel Laureate and Pulitzer Prize Winning Author, John Steinbeck. Mother of Waverly Scott Kaffaga and stepmother of Thomas Steinbeck and the late John Steinbeck IV. Grandmother of David Farber, Anderson Farber, Jebel 
 THOMPSON-LaWanda M., on April 28th, 2003, of Manhattan, NYC, formerly of Ohio, after a long illness. Beloved mother of Bruce R., Alison, Linda T. Reinstadtler and Christopher. Beloved grandmother of five. Lover of life, vivacious and spirited, she will be greatly missed by all who knew her.
 TOPAZ DRUCKMAN-Muriel. April 28, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Jacob Druckman, mother of Daniel Druckman and Karen Jeanneret-Druckman. She leaves behind a priceless legacy to the dance world-through writings, notated scores and ballets lost and reborn, now preserved. Services Friday May 2,
 ZUCKERMAN-Lucile K. Retired New York City public school teacher residing in Brooklyn, on April 28, 2003. She taught science at Marine Park Junior High School in Brooklyn for 25 years and was an active member of the United Federation of Teachers. She was a true New Yorker, the only one of he
