 Edythe Gaines, a prominent educator who in the 1960's and 70's was one of the highest ranking black officials in the New York City public school system, died on March 23 in Hartford. She was 83. Ms. Gaines died of natural causes, said her son Richard. From 1973 to 1975, Ms. 
 Stella Snead, a British Surrealist painter and collage artist who fled wartime Europe to work in the United States and later became a photographer noted for her books on India, died on March 18 in New York. She was 96. Her dealer, Pavel Zoubok, said she died of natural causes at the
 Doris W. Jones, who found the doors shut to her when she tried to learn ballet as an aspiring black dancer but who went on to open them for succeeding generations, running ballet schools for black youngsters and training a roster of notable dancers and choreographers, died on March 21 in Wa
 Belle Mayer Zeck, a lawyer who began her career as one of the few women to serve as prosecutors at the Nuremberg trials, died on March 18 at her home in Suffern, N.Y. She was 87. Her death was announced by her son, John Zeck. Ms. Zeck was part of a team that prosecuted offic
 Kathleen Powers Pflueger, owner of one of the world's great collections of 18th-century porcelain and 16th- and 17-century faience, a form of earthenware, died on March 30 surrounded by her pieces in the Park Avenue apartment that she had designed to house them. She was 90. Her deat
 Maggie Dixon, who coached the women's basketball team at Army to its first N.C.A.A. tournament last month, died Thursday at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 28. Dr. Millard J. Hyland, the Westchester County medical examiner, performed an autopsy yesterday and sai
 Gretchen Rau, a noted Hollywood set decorator who earned an Academy Award last month for her work on ''Memoirs of a Geisha,'' died on March 29 at her home in Northport, N.Y. She was 66. The cause was a brain tumor, her family said. Lavishly decorated, ''Memoirs of a Geisha''
 Elizabeth Maguire, a prominent New York editor who was most recently vice president and publisher of Basic Books, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 47 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was ovarian cancer, her companion, Karen Wolny, said. Ms. Maguire
 Muriel Spark, known for her finely polished, darkly comic prose and for the unforgettable Miss Jean Brodie, one of the funniest and most sinister characters in modern fiction, died Friday at a hospital in Florence, Italy. She was 88. Ms. Spark's death was announced yesterday, The As
 Ellen Kuzwayo, the lone woman and the least flashy of the founders of the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa and a quiet moral force throughout the rise of the African National Congress from outlaw movement to governing party, died Wednesday in Johannesburg. She was 91. The cau
 Denise C. Morgan, a legal scholar who was a key litigator in an important school financing case in New York State, died on April 7 in Chicago. She was 41 and lived in New York City. The cause was complications of bacterial pneumonia, said her husband, Dr. Eric R. Wold. Ms. M
 Alida Valli, an Italian movie star who was described by both David O. Selznick and Benito Mussolini as the most beautiful woman in the world after Greta Garbo and who appeared in more than 100 films, died on Saturday at her home in Rome. She was 84. The office of the mayor of Rome, 
 Jane Jacobs, the writer and thinker who brought penetrating eyes and ingenious insight to the sidewalk ballet of her own Greenwich Village street and came up with a book that challenged and changed the way people view cities, died yesterday in Toronto, where she moved in 1968. She was 89.  
 Alice H. Fiske, who contributed to the understanding of slave life in colonial New York by opening her 350-year-old estate on Shelter Island to archaeological study, died at home on April 17. She was 88. Her death was announced by Mac Griswold, director of archival research at the e
 Helen Hobbs Jordan, an exacting and tart-tongued music teacher who instructed generations of performers in ear training and theory, including Melissa Manchester, Bette Midler and Tony Bennett, died on Wednesday at her suite in the Salisbury Hotel, near Carnegie Hall. She was 99. Mrs
 Florence Latimer Mars, who defied the society into which she was born to write a searing book about the effects of the 1964 killings of the civil rights workers Andrew Goodman, Michael Schwerner and James Earl Chaney on her hometown, Philadelphia, Miss., died on Sunday at her home there. Sh
 Nadia Chilkovsky Nahumck, a performer and transcriber of dances by Isadora Duncan and an influential teacher, died on Sunday in Blue Bell, Pa. She was 98. Her death was announced by Judith Finkelstein, a former student. Born in Kiev, Ukraine, Ms. Nahumck came to the United S
