 Margaret Byrd Rawson, an educator, researcher and author who spent some 70 years identifying and treating reading disorders, died on Nov. 25 at her home near Frederick, Md. She was 102. She wrote nine books and many articles on dyslexia and was an early and enduring force in the Int
 ALTMAN-Edith. A woman of warmth, generosity, and intelligence and cherished mother of our dearest friend Louise. Our deepest sympathies to the entire family. We will remember her with love. Madeline and Stephen Barkin ALTMAN-Edith. Our heartfelt sympathy to our dear friend, Louise, 
 SABBAGH-Donna L. of Westbury, LI on November 28, 2001, in her 45th year. (Ironworkers Local #       
 ABRAMS-Rose. November 28. Beloved wife of the late Percy Abrams. Loving mother of Robert Abrams. Cherished grandmother of Meredith Meegan and Robert Abrams, Jr. and great grandmother of Connor Meegan. Devoted sister of the late Ann Feinman, the late Rae Levine, the late Herman Sutton, the l
 ADELL-Joan M. Of East Norwich, formerly of East Hills, on November 30th, 2001, in her 70th year. Beloved wife of 48 years to Allan, mother of Steven, and the late Cathy Hertzberg. Devoted grandmother of Joshua, Michael, Rachel, Amy and Emily, and sister to her beloved Anita Grupp of Pittsbu
 BLOCH-Ruth. On November 27. Beloved wife of the late Max. Loving mother of Susan Loew. Adored ''Oma'' of Michael, Karen, Hans, Damian, Emily & Madeline. She will be sorely missed. Private burial service at Beth-El Cemetery, Paramus, November 30.       
 BRAUNSTEIN - Sydell. Beloved mother of Joan Rosenblum and Lois Sloane. Mother-in-law of Robert Rosenblum and Allan Sloane. Adored grandmother of Carol Levin (Gary) and Kenneth Jedding (Bette), Leslie Zelnik (Cory) and Stephanie Sloane. Great grandmother of Samantha Levin. An independent wom
 GURNEY-Jane Peterkin. Of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, formerly of Garden City, NY, died November 30, 2001. Widow of John Kirkman Gurney, she graduated from the Cathedral School of St. Marys and is survived by Susan G. Buckey, Thomas P. Gurney, five grandchildren, three great-grandchildren, also a
 KATZ-Blanche Kassin. On Wednesday, November 21, suddenly at home in Brooklyn at age 93. Adored wife of the late Dr. Alexander A. Katz, mother of Vera Pavone of Brooklyn, Laura Strowe of Ann Arbor, MI and the late Paul Katz, grandmother of Chris and Joey Pavone and Anna Strowe. Hunter Colleg
 LEHMAN-Ann. On November 29, 2001, at the age of 94. A strong compassionate woman with a sharp mind, she remained fiercely independent to the very end. We will miss you mother. Services will be held on Sunday, at 1 PM, at Parkside Chapel, Forest Hills, NY. Carol Lehman Wagt Luc Wagt Groninge
 LOEB-Louise Steinhart. Died Saturday, December 1, 2001, at age 86. Widow of Henry A. Loeb (who died in 1998). Survived by her children Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin, her seven grandchildren, her 14 great-grandchildren. Interment is private. In lieu of flowers, contributio
 O'CONNOR-June Hamilton. Age 80. On November 26, 2001. Former talent coordinator at Metromedia in Manhattan, she lived for many years in Westport, Conn., and Princeton, NJ. She is survived by daughters, Anne Stuart Hamilton with whom she lived in Sherman, Connecticut, and June Gillespie; son
 REINMANN - Florence Fuerth. Wife of the late William Reinmann, passed away on November 24, 2001 at the age of 92. Our family mourns the passing of our beloved mother Florence. Mom was a member of Temple Sinai in Forest Hills, Queens. Over a span of 50 years she was employed as a sales assoc
 ROTHSTEIN-Anita Gallo. November 29. Beloved wife of Fred H. Rothstein. Loving sister of the late Lewis Gallo. She was a Vice President and Fashion Merchandising Director of B. Altman & Co., and a leading global influence in the fashion industry. A very caring, compassionate and loving wife 
 SABBAGH-Donna L. of Westbury, LI on November 28, 2001, in her 45th year. (Ironworkers Local #       
 SCHWARZBART-Edna. 92, of Anaheim Hills, CA, formerly of New York City. Beloved wife of the late Elias, loving mother of Ellen McKoy, passed away December 1, 2001. She is survived by her adoring family, including her son-in-law Keith, grandsons Chris and Keith Jr., and great-grandson Conner.
 STAUFFER-Geraldine Kirk. Our most cherished mother, Geraldine Kirk Stauffer, much beloved wife of the late George Michael Stauffer, passed away on Friday, November 30th at home in New Jersey in the 79th year. Her loss is grievous, but her children Michael Kirk Stauffer, Janet Stauffer Lesko
 Rosemary Brown, who as a middle-aged widow living in a London suburb in the 1960's said she had been in contact with history's most illustrious composers, offering as evidence hundreds of piano miniatures that she said Beethoven, Bach and others had ''dictated'' to her, died on Nov. 16 in L
 Mary Whitehouse, a British schoolteacher and mother of three who for more than 30 years campaigned vociferously against sex, violence and blasphemy on television, stage and screen, died on Nov. 23 in Colchester, England. She was 91. Variously called ''the most dangerous woman in Bri
 BUONOCORE-Marie Rose (nee Davino). On December 1, 2001. Devoted wife of Angelo. Beloved mother of Patrice and Bonnie. Cherished grandmother of Ariella and Ryan. Always a woman of love, understanding, warmth and patience. Reposing at Stutzmann Funeral Home, 224-39 Jamacia Ave., Queens Villag
 LOEB-Louise Steinhart. Died Saturday, December 1, 2001, at age 86. Widow of Henry A. Loeb (who died in 1998). Survived by her children Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin, her seven grandchildren, her 14 great-grandchildren. Interment is private. In lieu of flowers, contributio
 PORT-Evelyn J. December 2, 2001, at the age of 56, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Garrett, and loving mother of Darren and Stephanie. Adored daughter of Margot and the late Henry Gutman. Cherished sister of Joan (Marc) Mintz and Karen (Steven) Yager
 ROTHSTEIN-Anita Gallo. November 29. Beloved wife of Fred H. Rothstein. Loving sister of the late Lewis Gallo. She was a Vice President and Fashion Merchandising Director of B. Altman & Co., and a leading global influence in the fashion industry. A very caring, compassionate and loving wife 
 BETHILL-Lillian. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mrs. Lillian Bethill, an esteemed member, and extend to her beloved husband, Lester, and family its deepest sympathy. Kenneth Apfel, President Sidney Gottlieb, Secretary     
 COHEN-Marie Patz. Age 93, on December 1, 2001, in Baltimore, MD. Wife of the late Samuel J. Cohen. Mother of Elaine (Leonard) Wurzel. Grandmother of Mark (Ellen), Larry (Martha), and greatgrandmother of Jill, Max and Greg. Sister of Helen, Freda and Lillian. She will be lovingly remembered.
 GITLOW-Ida. On December 1, 2001 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Max, loving mother of Blanche Shapiro, and her husband, Sherwyn, and Stanley Gitlow, grandmother and great grandmother.       
 GOLDBERG-Rose. Beloved wife of George S. Devoted mother of Gary Goldberg and Deedee Friedman. Cherished grandmother of Michael and David Friedman. Loving sister of Harry Falik. Graveside services Tuesday, 10:30am, at Beth Moses Cemetery, Farmingdale, L.I. GOLDBERG-Rose. Temple BethE
 HERRMANN - Marjorie Sarah Kiam on December 3, 2001 at age 91. Widow of John A. Herrmann, who died in 1959. ''Nan'' is survived by her children John Jr. and Mary Rossabi and their spouses Anne Herrmann and Morris Rossabi as well as her grandchildren Amy and Howard, Tony, Jed, Tim and Edward 
 HOWE-Priscilla ''Sibby'' Lamb. Died November 29 in Hanover, NH. A celebration of her life will be held at Kendal at Hanover, NH December 29.       
 LOEB-Louise Steinhart. Died on Saturday, December 1, 2001, at age 86. Widow of Henry A. Loeb (who died in 1998). Survived by her children Jean and Raymond Troubh and Betty and John Levin, her seven grandchildren, her 14 great-grandchildren. Interment is private. In lieu of flowers, contribu
 McLAUGHLIN-Karen. A valiant & loving woman. Vibrant, generous and kind. She loved her dogs and was beloved by her friends. Allan and Kendra       
 PORT-Evelyn. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 Louise Steinhart Loeb, a New York benefactor of child welfare agencies and other causes, died Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 86. Her association with the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services spanned more than four decades. In 1962, as pre
 GILMARTIN-Teresa V., a.k.a. ''Tedi''. Suddenly on November 2, 2001. Longtime partner of the late Mary Leone. Daughter of the late Katherine and Michael Gilmartin. Sister of the late Catherine Morrissey, Thomas and Patrick J. Gilmartin. Cherished aunt of Elizabeth O'Leary, James Morrissey, P
 GOLDSTEIN-Stacy. Homemaker and vice president of StaVal, Inc., E&S Sales of Union, NJ, resident of Peapack, NJ, passed away on December 3, 2001 at age 37 after battling breast cancer for 12 years, but she was like that/a fighter. Stacy was everything to her husband for 13 years, Robert, and
 HERRMANN - Marjorie Sarah Kiam on December 3, 2001 at age 91. Widow of John A. Herrmann, who died in 1959. ''Nan'' is survived by her children John Jr. and Mary Rossabi and their spouses Anne Herrmann and Morris Rossabi as well as her grandchildren Amy and Howard, Tony, Jed, Tim and Edward 
 LEWIS-Grace Pierson on December 4, 2001 in Rye, NY (formerly of Short Hills, NJ and Westhampton Beach, NY), 103. Born April 7, 1898 in Brooklyn, NY, she was the daughter of the late Lewis E. and Blanche Thorne Pierson. Beloved by all. She is survived by her sons, Stanley P. Lewis of Westpor
 LOEB-Louise Steinhardt. The Faculty and Staff of Vivian Richenthal Institute of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine are saddened by the passing of Louise Steinhardt Loeb, a generous supporter of medical research and health care. Louise Loeb was a thoughtful and compassionate benefactress w
 PORT-Evelyn J. December 2, 2001. Evie was a dear and treasured friend. She lived her life with dignity, determination & courage. We will miss her. Our thoughts are with Darren and Stephanie, her proudest achievements, and the entire family. Jayne and Burt Goldstein Nancy and Jerry Reisman M
 SUPER-Simon. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our Board member Mollie Super, upon the loss of her husband. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President       
 DUBIVSKY-Anne. At age 91, of Hartsdale NY, on December 5, after a long illness. Beloved sister of Barbara Dubivsky, devoted aunt to Carol Becker, and Jane Coene. Grand-aunt to Christopher, Susan, Michael, Stephen, Sally and Elizabeth. And great grand-aunt to ten. Services at St. Vladimir's 
 GERSTMAN-Adelaide K. On December 4, 2001. Cherished wife of the late Mortimer. Beloved mother of George, Richard and Nancy. Loving grandmother of Heidi, Kim, Gary and Bruce. Devoted sister of the late Bernard. A woman of extraordinary warmth who made us feel good when we were around her. Sh
 HIRTH-Harriette Barbara (nee Cashman). Age 86. Peacefully on December 4, 2001. She is survived by her beloved daughter Barbara, dear son-in-law Simon Strauss and her adored granddaughter Alexandra. Her husband George predeceased her in 1951. Friends may gather at Walter B. Cooke Funeral Hom
 IMMERMAN-Evelyn. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Corey B. Rabin, President Joyce Baumgarten, Secretary       
 KAPLAN-Lillian Y., 94. Devoted wife of Abraham, mother of Rhoda and Hazel, grandmother of Michael, Marcy, Dana, Alexandra and Jonathan, and great grandmother to Sara and Andrew, passed away on December 2, 2001. She graduated from Barnard College with honors, received her Master's degree in 
 MOORE-Dolorita Wallace. Age 68. A Christian lady entered into eternal rest suddenly and peacefully at home on December 4, 2001. Dolorita leaves her loving husband James, her two devoted sons James and Edmund, and daughter-in-law Margaret. Her son Stratford predeceased her. Dolorita was the 
 STRAUS-Andree (Bebe). Beloved wife of the late Freddy Straus. Loving aunt, grand aunt, sister in law, godmother. She will be greatly missed by all who knew her. Service Friday December 7, 2001, 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st Street.       
 LAST week, as the fiercely partisan legislators of the virtually bankrupt Nassau County turned blue in the face during an all-night fight over their 2002 budget, the inner schoolmarm, dormant since she left teaching for politics, emerged in the presiding officer, Judith A. Jacobs. The count
 Mercedes Matter, a painter, teacher and the chief founder of the New York Studio School in Greenwich Village, died on Tuesday. She was 87  and lived in East Hampton on Long Island. Mrs. Matter was born Mercedes Carles in New York in 1913. Her father, the American modernist Arthur B.
 BLEECKER-Rosalind P. Of Miami Beach and NYC. On Thursday, December 6, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Louis K. Bleecker, cherished mother of Barbara Appelbaum and Joan (Robert) Rosen, adored grandmother of Joseph Appelbaum, Adam J. Roberts and Meredith Rosen. Rosalind lived a long and glorio
 MARTINEZ-The Hon. Cira, former Supervising Judge of the Bronx Family Court, died December 5, 2001 from complications due to pancreatic cancer. She is survived by her partner Jane Charlotte; sister, Daisy, as well as numerous nieces, nephews and extended family in Canada, the US and Cuba. Me
 MOORE-Dolorita Wallace. Age 68. A Christian lady entered into eternal rest suddenly and peacefully at home on December 4, 2001. Dolorita leaves her loving husband James, her two devoted sons James and Edmund, and daughter-in-law Margaret. Her son Stratford predeceased her. Dolorita was the 
 MURTON-Mary (nee McHugh). Died on December 6. She was born in Ireland and is survived by her husband Harvey, who was the Chief Armorer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, by two daughters, several grandchildren and great grandchildren. She was predeceased by two sons. Reposing at Lincoln Par
 RUBINSTEIN-Jeanne Sara. Of New York, NY died on December 5th from pancreatic cancer at 79 years of age. She was a painter, printmaker and poet whose work was widely admired. Her lively wit caused many a solemn face to turn bright with laughter. We mourn her loss and will miss her dearly. Er
 SEMEL-Frances. The Semel Society records with sorrow the loss of our esteemed member, Frances Semel. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her husband Abraham and children Peter and Bernice and their families. Martin Semel, President       
 STRAUS-Andree (BB). Beloved wife of the late Freddy Straus. Loving aunt, grand aunt, sister-inlaw, godmother. She will be greatly missed by all who knew her. Service Friday, December 7, 2001, 11:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st Street.       
 BLEECKER-Rosalind P. Of Miami Beach and NYC. On Thursday, December 6, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Louis K. Bleecker, cherished mother of Barbara Appelbaum and Joan (Robert) Rosen, adored grandmother of Joseph Appelbaum, Adam J. Roberts and Meredith Rosen. Rosalind lived a long and glorio
 KAPLAN-Lillian Y., 94. Devoted wife of Abraham, mother of Rhoda and Hazel, grandmother of Michael, Marcy, Dana, Alexandra and Jonathan, and great-grandmother to Sara, Andrew and Jamie, passed away on December 2, 2001. She graduated from Barnard College with honors, received her Master's deg
 QUEEN-Ann (nee Fladhammer). Of Forest Hills, NY. Formerly of Patchogue and Woodside, NY. Associated with NYC Department of Citywide Services-Division of Real Estate. Wife of the late James Queen, daughter of the late Arnold and Jessie Fladhammer. Also survived by her brother, John Fladhamme
 SHUSTER-Joan. It is with profound sadness that we say goodbye to Joan. Loving wife, mother, nanny, daughter, sister, aunt and friend. Funeral will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel on Sunday, December 9 at 11:45 AM. All contributions should be made to Visiting Nurse and Hospice Care of S
 BAYLDON-Margaret C. nee Comstock. Widow of Roger W. Loving mother of Sarah (William Beaman) of Falls Church, VA; Dr. Barbara (Joel Block) of Chicago, and stepson Richard of Florence, Italy. Caring grandmother of 5, died December 4 at New York Hospital. Donations may be made in her memory to
 BLACK-SHEA-Mildred, M.D. Of Barnstable, MA, formerly of Old Field, NY and Gardner, MA on December 3, 2001. Beloved wife of the late John F. Shea, M.D. Loving mother of Moira Shea Wittman, M.D. of Falmouth, MA, Emily Leoni of Canton, MA, John F. Shea of Boston, MA, and Alice Mecca of Colches
 COBRINK-Doris (Cobrinik). On Monday, December 3, 2001. Beloved daughter of the late Agnes and David. Remembered with love and caring by many cousins and friends. Graveside services were held Thursday, December 6th. Contributions in her memory may be made to Israel Cancer Research Fund, 1290
 HARGRAVE-Marjorie Bywater Adams. Of NYC, died on December 4. Wife of the late James B. Adams, Jr. and the late John T. Hargrave. Mother of James B. Adams III, Audrey Bywater Adams Massa, John L. Adams, Louise Parlin Hargrave Meyer and Janet T. Hargrave. Grandmother to James L. Massa, John C
 IRWIN-Barbara L.M. Age 85, died December 7, at home in Larchmont, NY. Loving and beloved of Wallace Irwin Jr., her husband; William W. Irwin, her son; Victoria Woolley of Minneapolis, her daughter; Benjamin Woolley, her grandson; Philip Sprott of Thame, Oxfordshire, England, her brother. Gi
 KAPLAN-Lillian Y., 94. Devoted wife of Abraham, mother of Rhoda and Hazel, grandmother of Michael, Marcy, Dana, Alexandra and Jonathan, and great-grandmother to Sara, Andrew and Jamie, passed away on December 2, 2001. She graduated from Barnard College with honors, received her Master's deg
 MOSKOWITZ-Sylvia. 87, December 7, 2001. Beloved wife of Ben for 65 years. Loving mother of Deanna Glassmann, Joseph Moskowitz and Phyllis Figluizzi. Cherished grandmother of Leonard, Dina, Steven, David, Minda, Robert, Adam and Michael. Greatgrandmother of Jennifer, Erica, Gabrielle and Abi
 PATSURIS-Katherine, 66. Beloved wife and best friend of husband Theodore and loving mother of Penelope, succumbed to cancer on November 20. Kate was a passionate lifelong crusader for women's reproductive rights, working for Planned Parenthood for over three decades. She was a devoted wife 
 RETTINGER-Ginny, 93. Died November 26, 2001. Interred on November 27 at the New Montefiore Cemetery next to her husband of 68 years, David (March 3, 1997). A graveside service for immediate family was held. Ginny leaves behind her children Martin and Jill, Phyllis and David, Diane and Harv;
 ROGERS-Judith Sanden. Died on November 28, 2001, after a courageous battle with cancer. She was the headmistress of Saint Joseph's Episcopal School and president of the Schoolhouse Children's Museum, both in Boynton Beach, FL. She is survived by her daughter Jennifer N. Rogers, and brother 
 ROSENBLUM - Lillian. Beloved wife of the late Louis Blitstein and David Rosenblum; cherished mother of Carol, Dovey (Martin), Robert (Harriet); adored and adoring grandmother of Joanne (Joel), Susan (Eric), Jon (Patty), Jim (Lone), Elizabeth, Melinda, Mark, Andrea; and great-grandmother of 
 SANDLER-Hilda. 85, on December 7, formerly of Miami Beach, FL. Beloved mother of Eli Sandler, mother-in-law of Susan Gershon Sandler of Stamford, CT. Loving grandmother of Matthew Sandler and Tracy Izzo and great-grandmother of Jared Sandler and Hunter Izzo. Honored in 1959 by Rabbi Alexand
 SCHERER-Olga. Born in Krakow, Poland in 1924, died on November 26, 2001 in Paris. She earned MA and PhD degrees in Comparative Literature at Columbia. She taught at Bard College, Yale and Indiana University. A Guggenheim Fellowship led to a professorship at the University of Paris. She publ
 SCHNEIDER-Helen. Died peacefully at age 79 on December 8, 2001, at Long Island Jewish Medical Center after a courageous battle with cancer. Loving wife for 51 years of Irving. Beloved mother of Bunny Mayersohn, Lynn Schneider Joseph and Mindy Schneider Lesser. Devoted mother-in-law of Ronal
 SHUSTER-Joan. It is with profound sadness that we say goodbye to Joan. Loving wife, mother, nanny, daughter, sister, aunt and friend. Funeral will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel on Sunday, December 9 at 11:45 AM. All contributions should be made to Visiting Nurse and Hospice Care of S
 Faith Hubley, a three-time Academy Award winner whose 50 animated films often combined elements of myth, jazz and a deeply felt humanism, died on Friday in New Haven. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan. For more than 45 years Ms. Hubley made a film a year, an achievement that Dan McL
 Laurie Johnston, a World War II correspondent, an author and a reporter for The New York Times who was cited for the humanity and wit of her writing, died at her home in Honolulu on Friday. She was 87. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her daughter Elisa W. Johnston said. Alt
 LEVY-Jane. 84 years, died at home early Sunday morning, December 9, 2001, after a long, brave battle with pancreatic cancer. For 61 wonderful years, she was the devoted and adoring wife of Jules, 88. She was the loving and proud mother of Fred, 54, of New York City, and Doug, 52, of Needham
 RUBIN-Dorothy (Slotnick). December 7, 2001, three weeks before her 82nd birthday. Predeceased by her beloved husband Jack and sister Lee. Avid reader, film buff, grammarian and the true spirit and historian of the family. She lived in Delray, FL, but her heart was in New York. She was the m
 SCHNEIDER-Helen. Died peacefully at age 79 on December 8, 2001, at Long Island Jewish Medical Center after a courageous battle with cancer. Loving wife for 51 years of Irving. Beloved mother of Bunny Mayersohn, Lynn Schneider Joseph and Mindy Schneider Lesser. Devoted mother-in-law of Ronal
 Megan Boyd, whose fabled expertise at tying enchantingly delicate fishing flies put her work in museums and the hands of collectors around the world and prompted Queen Elizabeth II to award her the British Empire Medal, died Nov. 15 in Golspie, Scotland. She was 86. She did not rece
 BLASIUS-Gertrude J., 83. Of Fort Pierce, FL, died Dec. 8, 2001. Mrs. Blasius was born in the Bronx, NY and was a 20 year resident of Fort Pierce, FL and formerly of New Hyde Park and Baiting Hollow, NY. She was an administrative assistant for 23 years with the NYC Public School system. Surv
 HARMAN-Sylvia, 85 years. On December 8. Her devoted children Lynn, Barbara, Gina and Paul; their spouses; her loving grandchildren Megan, Rachel, Molly, Julia, Isabel, Grace and Jake, mourn their mom, mother-in-law, & nana. She was co-founder and former President of North Shore Child Guidan
 LEVY-Jane. 84 years, died at home early Sunday morning, December 9, 2001, after a long, brave battle with pancreatic cancer. For 61 wonderful years, she was the devoted and adoring wife of Jules, 88. She was the loving and proud mother of Fred, 54, of New York City, and Doug, 52, of Needham
 LLEWELLYN-Mrs. Nessa F. Widow of Charles Llewellyn, died on Saturday, December 8, 2001 at the Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home in NYC. She was 103. Born Nessa Lopez on October 31, 1898 in Christiana, Jamaica, British West Indies, she immigrated to the United States in 1917 and became a citiz
 MARTIN-Ruth Ann. Of Naples, Florida, formerly of Lloyd Harbor, New York, died peacefully December 8, 2001. Beloved wife of Milward W. Martin II, loving mother of Katherine B. Martin, Tucson, AZ; Milward W. Martin III of Naples, FL; Alison S. Martin of Beverly Hills, CA; Susan G. Martin of N
 MATTER-Mercedes. Died December 4, 2001, after a courageous battle with illness. The Dean, faculty, students, alumni, staff and Trustees of the New York Studio School mourn her passing. Mercedes Matter was a painter, writer, teacher, and founder and dean emeritus of the New York Studio Schoo
 MINTER-Bobby. The Board and staff of Citymeals-on-Wheels mourn the untimely passing of Bobby Minter, beloved husband of our past president, Maggi Landau. Our hearts go out to Maggi and her family on this tragic loss. Gael Greene, Chairman Preston Robert Tisch, President Marcia Stein, Execut
 SCHERER-Clara Legg. Age 92 died on Monday, December 10, 2001 in Manchester, VT. Beloved wife of the late Albert G. Scherer, Jr., mother of A. George Scherer III of Bondville, VT and Elaine S. Romaine of New York, NY. She also leaves 4 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren. She was a membe
 SCHNEIDER-Helen. Died peacefully at age 79 on December 8, 2001, at Long Island Jewish Medical Center after a courageous battle with cancer. Loving wife for 51 years of Irving. Beloved mother of Bunny Mayersohn, Lynn Schneider Joseph and Mindy Schneider Lesser. Devoted mother-in-law of Ronal
 SCLAFANI-Frank. The Firm of Diamond, Wohl, Fried, Roth & Co. wishes to extend our deepest sympathy to our longtime staff member, Anna, on the untimely loss of her husband and send condolences to the rest of their family.       
 SILVER-Elaine (nee Bienenfeld). On December 8, 2001, in the evening at the age of 67. She was the beloved wife and best friend of Walter, devoted mother to Evelyn and Larry, Ruth, Morris and Sharon, cherished grandmother of Shlomo, Chani, Avi, Sheri, Terri, Jennifer, Michelle, Evan and Alis
 SPIERER-Ida. Died peacefully on Dec. 7, 2001, at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Sol. Loving mother of Cynthia (Noah) Fleschner, Sandra (Nat) Geller and Rosalind (Jacob) Weinstein. Adored grandmother of nine and great grandmother of 21. She was the matriarch of our family and will be sorel
 TREVILLIAN-Mary Lou. Of Greenville, S.C., wife of Dr. Wallace D. Trevillian, a Dean Emeritus of Clemson University, died Sunday. She was a graduate of Spence School, New York and Sarah Lawrence College. Other survivors include two sons, three grandchildren and a sister. She was predeceassed
 WEINSTEIN-Claire. Of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Rockville Centre, NY, passed away on Sunday, December 9. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Weinstein, affectionate mother of Kenneth (Merle) and the late Jill Ascher. Adoring grandmother of Brian (Dana) and Kevin Ascher. In days gone by she en
 Helen Schneider, who with her husband gave major philanthropic support to charities, especially children's hospitals, died on Saturday in New Hyde Park, N.Y. She was 79 and lived in Manhattan. She had cancer, her family said. Mrs. Schneider's husband, Irving Schneider, is ch
 IKEDA-Mary. 89. Pianist for local ballet and modern dance companies, and political activist passed away December 9. She is survived by two sisters, Nori Lafferty of Oakland, CA and Kazu Iijima of New York City. She will be sadly missed by family, friends and associates. A celebration of her
 KOHN-Bertha (nee Wald), of New Rochelle, NY formerly of Bayonne, NJ at age 102. Beloved wife of the late Daniel, cherished mother of Myra (Micki) Pollack and Sheldon Kohn. Loving grandmother of Jack, Diane, Phyllis, and Daniel and three great grandchildren. She will be missed.       
 LEVY-Jane. 84 years, died at home early Sunday morning, December 9, 2001, after a long, brave battle with pancreatic cancer. For 61 wonderful years, she was the devoted and adoring wife of Jules, 88. She was the loving and proud mother of Fred, 54, of New York City, and Doug, 52, of Needham
 MULLIGAN-Margaret. Died December 5, 2001. Loving mother of Brian and Paul. Remembered with affection and love by family, friends and neighbors. She was a socially engaged woman who took enormous pride in having worked to landmark the row of brownstones she lived in for over 40 years. Her ac
 RACHMIEL-Carol. Age 66. Of West Caldwell, NJ. On December ll, 2001. Survived by her husband Lawrence, daughters Susan Cahill and Nancy, mother Hannah Greenstein, brother Robert Green, grandchildren Alexandra & Jacob. For service information, call Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, Paramus, NJ.
 SCHNEIDER-Helen. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Helen Schneider, a beloved leader and cherished friend who was greatly admired for her extraordinary generosity and compassionate concern. Mrs. Schneider and her 
 SMITH-Beatrice ''Babbie'' S. Formerly of NYC in Concord, MA, December 10, 2001. Wife of the late Morgan K. Smith. Memorial services in Concord will be announced at a later date. Gifts in her memory may be sent to Trinity Church, 81 Elm St., Concord, MA. 01742, the Adirondack Trail Improveme
 BLOCK-Millicent. Wife of Michael; mother of Margaret, Jonathan, Bernard, Rachel, Alice, and Robert; grandmother of David, Nicolas, Taylor, Hanna, Millicent, peacefully passed after a long history of Alzheimer's on December 9, 2001. Cherished by her family and friends in a life dedicated to 
 ECKERSON-Meg W. December 7 at age 43. New York City, Shelter Island. After heroic battle with cancer. Loving companion of Jill Emerson. Daughter of Nancy Eckerson Fitts (Richard) of Pittsford, N.Y. Sister of H.D. Eckerson, Andrew, Jeffrey and Judith Fitts; five nieces and nephews. Services 
 LOWE-Anne, 94. Of Hollywood, FL. Passed away on December 11, 2001. She was preceded in death by her husband, David P. Lowe and is survived by her devoted sister Pauline Seligson, her nephews Norman and Bernard Friedman and their extended families. A resident of Florida for 28 years, she ser
 MITCHELL-Julia (nee Cahillane). Beloved wife of the late Francis X. Loving mother of Julia Keane, Margaret Strickland and John. Adored grandmother of Sean, Niall, Kiera and Joseph. Dear sister to Thomas and James Cahillane. Proud aunt to many and great friend to all who knew her. Reposing T
 PACK-Vivian B. Died at home December 12, 2001, three days before her 84th birthday. Mother of Leonard, Frederick and Jennifer Pack and mother-in-law of Adele Weisman and Sandra Pack. Wife of the late Howard D. Pack. Sister of Walter Brecher. Grandmother of Jesse, Justin, Jason and Anna. Ser
 SCHNEIDER-Helen. The Anti-Defamation League mourns the passing of Helen Schneider, who with her husband Irving, generously supported ADL. Through their philanthropy, she and Irving demonstrated their commitment to the Jewish people, the State of Israel and the well being of children everywh
 SILVER-Elaine. AMIT is profoundly saddened by the passing of our dear friend and beloved sister of our generous benefactors, Marvin (Hadassah) Bienenfeld. A true woman of valor, Elaine Silver was very caring, compassionate and devoted to the well-being of our AMIT children in Israel. She wi
 SMITH-Beatrice ''Babbie'' S. Formerly of NYC in Concord, MA, December 10, 2001. Wife of the late Morgan K. Smith. Memorial services in Concord will be announced at a later date. Gifts in her memory may be sent to Trinity Church, 81 Elm St., Concord, MA. 01742, the Adirondack Trail Improveme
 SUGARMAN-Goldie G. Wife of the late nuclear chemist Nathan Sugarman who was part of the University of Chicago Manhattan Project and the team that went to Los Alamos, died December 10th at 85. ''Goldie was a deeply thoughtful and caring human being who endeavored to understand the world and 
 CHODASH-Ethel. Passed away December 11, 2001. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Jersey City, NJ. Loving wife of Benjamin, to whom she was married 66 years. Services will be held 2:30 PM Sunday, December 16, 2001 at United Hebrew Cemetery, Staten Island, New York. Further information: Gutterman
 MITCHELL-Julia (nee Cahillane). Beloved wife of the late Francis X. Loving mother of Julia Keane, Margaret Strickland and John. Adored grandmother of Sean, Niall, Kiera and Joseph. Dear sister to Thomas and James Cahillane. Proud aunt to many and great friend to all who knew her. Reposing F
 PACK-Vivian B. Died at home December 12, 2001, three days before her 84th birthday. Mother of Leonard, Frederick and Jennifer Pack and mother-in-law of Adele Weisman and Sandra Pack. Wife of the late Howard D. Pack. Sister of Walter Brecher. Grandmother of Jesse, Justin, Jason and Anna. Ser
 RUTHRAUFF-Nancy Ewing. Died on December 12, 2001. Wife of the late F. Bourne Ruthrauff, sister of John H. Ewing and the late Blaine G. Ewing. Mother of Clare Thomas, John and Bourne. Grandmother of Abbey, William, Kieran, Kate and Lindsay. Great-grandmother of Grace and James. She will alwa
 Pauline Campanelli, a painter whose super-realist still lifes were so popular that their sales were rivaled only by those of Andrew Wyeth among living artists, died on Nov. 29 at her home in Pohatcong Township, N.J., a few miles south of Phillipsburg. She was 58. Her husband, Dan, a
 Erica Van Acker, whose experience was the basis of a pioneering public television documentary on rape in 1971 and who became an early public spokeswoman for those who had been raped, died on Sept. 11 in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. She was 62 and lived in Manhattan and Sa
 EROS-Clara. A retired textile importer. Died on December 8th at age 85. A Memorial Service will be held at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday, December 19th at 2 PM. She is mourned by family and friends.       
 FARLEY-Esme. On December 13, 2001 at age 79. Beloved wife of the late James, former District Leader and Deputy Commissioner of Borough Works of Manhattan. Loving sister of Edna of Australia. Also survived by numerous nieces and nephews. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av
 JAFFE-Clarice. Beloved wife of Herman. Loving mother of Donna. Cherished aunt and great aunt. She was a devoted and loyal friend to all that knew her. Services Sunday 10:30 AM ''Parkside'' Chapels, Queens Boulevard at 66th Avenue, Forest Hills, NY.       
 Naomi Schor, a literary critic and theorist who combined psychoanalytic theory, avant-garde philosophy and feminism to come up with quirky, often startling insights into 19th-century French authors including Flaubert and Zola, died on Dec. 2 at a New Haven hospital. She was 58 and lived in 
 FARLEY-Esme. On December 13, 2001 at age 79. Beloved wife of the late James, former District Leader and Deputy Commissioner of Borough Works of Manhattan. Loving sister of Edna of Australia. Also survived by numerous nieces and nephews. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Av
 FELDER-Alyce Scherzer. On December 12, 2001 in San Diego. Wife of the late Karl Felder and the late Michael Scherzer. Mother of Larry, Don and Judie Stuart. Motherin-law of Carole, Toni and David Stuart. Grandmother of Mike, Ian, Erica & Mark Land, and Gabrielle. Beloved teacher and counsel
 JAFFE-Clarice. Beloved wife of Herman. Loving mother of Donna. Cherished aunt and great aunt. She was a devoted and loyal friend to all that knew her. Services Sunday 10:30 AM ''Parkside'' Chapels, Queens Boulevard at 66th Avenue, Forest Hills, NY.       
 PACK-Vivian. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member, Vivian Pack. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her children and other members of her family. Paul Konigsberg, President       
 PORZIO-Linda. Age 51. Passed away on December 14, 2001 after a long and courageous battle with Multiple Sclerosis. Linda touched and loved everyone with whom she came in contact and she bore her illness without complaint. She is survived by her husband Richard. Service Friday, December 21, 
 RUTHRAUFF-Nancy Ewing. Died on December 12, 2001. Wife of the late F. Bourne Ruthrauff, sister of John H. Ewing and the late Blaine G. Ewing. Mother of Clare Thomas, John and Bourne. Grandmother of Abbey, William, Kieran, Kate and Lindsay. Great-grandmother of Grace and James. She will alwa
 WILDMAN-Dorothy K. Passed away December 14. Wife of the late Dr. C.J. Wildman. Beloved mother of Judith and Kenneth, Joseph and Margot. Cherished grandmother of Sarah, Rebecca, Elana, Shira and Aviva. Adored sister of Helen Weiss. Devoted to philanthropy and pursuit of higher knowledge. A p
 Frances Elizabeth Holberton, one of the first computer programmers, whose contributions to software over the years ranged from an early data-sorting program to helping develop the business programming language Cobol, died on Dec. 8 at a nursing home in Rockville, Md. She was 84. The
 KEATING-Catherine E., S.U. Died at Linwood on December 15, 2001. Native of Kingston, NY, Sr. Catherine Keating received her doctorate from Fordham University and devoted her life to the education of women in New York. Former Regional Superior of the Society of Saint Ursula and Assistant Sup
 DISPONZIO-Ann. On Sunday, December 16, 2001 at age 77. She was a woman of warmth, generosity and love. Born to Italian immigrants, she rode the tide of her generation to a successful career without every compromising her devotion to family and friends. Founder of Disponzio Queens Lawyer Ser
 ELSON-Gert. Of East Meadow, N.Y. on December 17, 2001. Beloved wife of Bern for 62 years. Loving mother of Roger and Sheryl, Robert and Robin, and Richard. Devoted sister of Vivian and Abe, Gloria and David. Cherished Grandma of Brooke and Duane, Wendy and Russell, Sarab, Zach, Avtar and Ol
 FLANAGAN-Rose Kosoff. Died on December 16, 2001. Loving wife of the late Samuel Kosoff and the late George Flanagan. Beloved mother of Lydia Schwarz (Joel), Susan Kosoff (Paul), David Kosoff (Sheila); devoted grandmother of Melissa, Jeffrey, Mark, Jordan, Zora, and Langston, and proud great
 KATZ-Jessie S., 97. On December 16, in West Palm Beach, FL. Formerly of Yonkers, NY, she was the beloved wife for 58 years of the late Charles, adored mother of the recently deceased Stephen, dearest mother-in-law of Barbara. Also survived by sister Phyllis (Jack), sister-in-law Sylvia (Moe
 PORZIO-Linda. Age 51. Passed away on December 14, 2001 after a long and courageous battle with Multiple Sclerosis. Linda touched and loved everyone with whom she came in contact and she bore her illness without complaint. She is survived by her husband Richard. Service Friday, December 21, 
 PRESSER-Sylvia. Of Houston, TX passed away December 12, 2001. Preceded in death by her husband of 30 years, Murray Presser. Loving and devoted mother of Marilyn Presser of New York and Helen Presser. Beloved sister of Jessie Oppenheim of New York.       
 ALCALY-Lillian Meltzer. Died on December 6, 2001. Age 89. The widow of Leon Alcaly and sister of Emma Courlander. She is survived by her sons, Roger and Peter, her grandchildren, David and Mara and her daughters-in-law Helen Bodian and Judith Alcaly.       
 BARNETT-Helen. Our beautiful Helen. Almost a sister, for over 80 years she was a dear friend of our family. We remember her with love. The Winter Family       
 EDELSTEIN-Heather, 52, passed away peacefully on December 18, 2001 after a long and courageous fight against breast cancer. She had the heart of a lion and served as a beacon of strength to all who had the honor of knowing her. Her family and many dear friends will forever miss her dignity,
 ELLIS-Valerie. Passed away on December 16, 2001 at her Miami Beach home at the age of 86. Born January 4, 1915 in Newark, NJ and married to the late Abraham Ellis. She is survived by four children, Carol Shapiro (Dr. Stanley), Lynn Clurman (David), Dr. Eugene Ellis (Madeline) and Dr. Stephe
 MANION-Marie. She loved life and fought so hard to keep living. She may be gone but her light will shine brightly in all who were privileged to have been touched by her. She is survived by her mother Betty, her daughter Sheila and son-in-law Manhee, her sisters Virginia and Barbara, her bro
 MUIR - Catherine Edna (nee Swift). Of Port Washington, NY, Pocono Pines, PA and Delray Beach FL, December 17, 2001 in NYC. Born November 29, 1930 in Brooklyn, Cassie was the beloved wife of Robert for 46 years, devoted mother of Bob, Cathy Dwyer, Eileen Lawson and Sean, tender grandmother o
 BARNETT-Helen (nee Lewis). On December 16, 2001, at age 92, after a brief illness. Loving wife of the late Ben. Sister of the late Julian Lewis, sister-in-law to Annette. Devoted mother to Jim Barnett and Alice Schachter, mother-in-law of Sue Barnett and Sherman Schachter. Adoring grandmoth
 ELLIS-Valerie. Passed away on December 16, 2001 at her Miami Beach home at the age of 86. Born January 4, 1915 in Newark, NJ and married to the late Abraham Ellis. She is survived by four children, Carol Shapiro (Dr. Stanley), Lynn Clurman (David), Dr. Eugene Ellis (Madeline) and Dr. Stephe
 KIELY-Anne Rita. On December 18, 2001. Beloved wife of Thomas M. Devoted mother of Thomas, Kevin, Susan Tierney and Michael. Also survived by five loving grandchildren and one cherished great grandchild. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave. (at 20th St.), NYC, Frida
 SFERRA-Evelyn. On December 18, 2001. Beloved of both her families. Wife of the late Moses Braverman, and Enrico Sferra. Loving mother of Jill Hollander. A precious treasure now at home with Our Lord. Services Friday. Call Riverside 212-362-6600.       
 SOLOMON-Marcia Greenhouse, died peacefully in her sleep on December 18, 2001. Widow of the late Ed Solomon. She is mourned by her sons, Mark and Roy, and their wives, Peggy Eliot and Yvonne Van Cort, her grandchildren, Ben, Laina, Ellie and Jonah, and his wife Elkie, and the great-grandchil
 GRIFFITH-Jill Ann Greenberg, 50, of Islamorada, FL, formerly of Roslyn Heights, Long Island, passed away December 20, 2001. She is survived by her loving husband, Alvin Tod Griffith; her son Alvie, her daughter Dottie, mother and step-father Rozlyn and Sy Sadkin, father Mersh Greenberg, sis
 HARTLEY - Margaret Gilman. The wife of William A. Hartley departed this life on Tuesday, December 18, 2001. She will be missed by many, but the love we all have for her will stay in our hearts forever. God rest her soul. She is survived by her husband William A. Hartley, three sisters, Barb
 ISAACS-Lenora Jean. Of Freehold, NJ. Devoted wife of Sidney Isaacs. Loving mother of Ellen and her husband Frank O'Shea, and David Isaacs. Adoring grandmother of Jessica, Ryan and Ari.       
 JUDGE-Lee Shepard. Of Hanover, NH, formerly of Winchester, MA, and Hastings on Hudson, NY, died on December 18, 2001. Widow of the late Francis L. Judge. Loving and devoted mother of Lawrence S. of Dobbs Ferry, NY, Peter F. of Chelmsford, MA, Russell D. of Denver, CO, and Victor H. of Dillo
 PREVILLE-Gloria. The Officers, Trustees, Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Gloria Preville. We offer our heartfelt condolences to her family. Paul M. Weltz, President Burton J. Esrig, Secretary       
 SOLOMON-Masha Greenhouse, died peacefully in her sleep on December 18, 2001. Widow of the late Ed Solomon. She is mourned by her sons, Mark and Roy, and their wives, Peggy Eliot and Yvonne Van Cort, her grandchildren, Ben, Laina, Ellie and Jonah, and his wife Elkie, and the great-grandchild
 WINKLER-Claire. Young Israel of Forest Hills mourns the passing of its member, Claire Winkler. May the Almighty console her family together with all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.       
 BLAKEMAN-Bernice D. We mourn the loss of our beloved past-president. Sincere condolences to her family and friends. The Sisterhood of Forest Hills Jewish Center       
 COHEN-Florence. The Cohen family deeply mourns the loss of their heart and soul, Florence Cohen, of Larchmont, NY on December 21 at age 75. Cherished wife of Martin, affectionate sister of Leah, loving mother of Jason and Jo Ann, Larry and Susan, and Liz and Steven, and adored grandmother o
 HART-Joan Johnson. Daughter of Richard O. Johnson and Jean F. Holt. Born February 28, 1918 in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Wife of the late Thornley W. Hart. Beloved mother of Richard M. (Susan), Thornley A. Hart (Barbara), Angela H. Morris and her grandchildren, Nina, Edward Morris, Richard A
 LATHWOOD-Sarah G. (Sadie). Age 94. Born in New York City 1907. Died 21st of December, 2001 near her long time home in the Bronx. Sadie was a teacher in the NYC Public School System for over 40 years at PS 53 in the Bronx. She leaves her son Peter.       
 MEITERMAN-Jean, 90. Of Miami Beach, FL, formerly of Manalapan, NJ, died at her home on Thursday, December 20, 2001. Born in Poland in 1911, she ran a restaurant with her family until WWII. She was a Holocaust survivor with her husband and two sons. After the war, she moved to Forest Hills w
 OBENZINGER-Romana. Age 87, on December 20, 2001. Beloved wife of Nathan, deceased just 8 weeks ago. Dear sister of Zosha, loving mother of the late Ronald, Mark and Hilton, and cherished grandmother to Rachel, Isaac and Eric. Her love for her husband took her to him yet her loving spirit st
 SOSNOW-Kate. On December 21, 2001 at the age of 91 of Kings Point, N.Y. and Miami Beach, Fla. Loving wife of the late Morris Sosnow. Devoted mother of Bernice and the late Jerrold Lieberman, Lorraine and Irving Aaron, Sheila and Richard Nagler. Beloved sister of Betty Benstock. Adored Nana 
 Martha Mödl, one of Germany's leading Wagnerian singers, died last Sunday in a hospital in Stuttgart. She was 89. Miss Mödl was known as much for her dramatic intensity as for her powerful, thrilling voice, which sometimes betrayed difficulties in the upper register. She began her
 BRUNO-R. ''Kay.'' Died December 21, 2001. We mourn the loss of Kay Bruno, a cherished, loyal and caring friend. A beautiful person herself, she spent her life making others feel and look beautiful. Her Friends       
 CAINE-Marilyn, on December 17, 2001. Widow of Max. Survived by her daughter Cathy and many loved ones.       
 ELLIS-Valerie. Passed away on December 16, 2001 at her Miami Beach home at the age of 86. Born January 4, 1915 in Newark, NJ and married to the late Abraham Ellis. She is survived by four children, Carol Shapiro (Dr. Stanley), Lynn Clurman (David), Dr. Eugene Ellis (Madeline) and Dr. Stephe
 FRANCO-Muriel. Passed on December 20, 2001, at age 89. Adored and loving mother of Elaine Krieger. She was a devoted relative, friend and media colleague. Mother, you will be greatly missed, but your humor, integrity, generosity, guidance and your indomitable spirit will always remain in th
 GOTTLIEB - Marian. Beloved mother of Robert, Karen and Jill. Cherished mother-in-law of Mitch, Leonard and Susan. Devoted and adored grandmother of Cara, Jodi, Alexis, Kelly and Alexandra. Irreplaceable friend. The soul of chic, her style, grace, class, compassion and joie de vivre set a st
 HARPER-Ethel. 92, December 13, 2001, in New York City after a long, gallant fight with Alzheimer's. Daughter of David and Rose Harper of Lavenham and London, England. A prominent philatelist, auctioneer, and lecturer on postage stamps and postal history, in ten years she gave over 200 prese
 HART-Joan Johnson. Daughter of Richard O. Johnson and Jean F. Holt. Born February 28, 1918 in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Wife of the late Thornley W. Hart. Beloved mother of Richard M. (Susan), Thornley A. Hart (Barbara), Angela H. Morris and her grandchildren, Nina, Edward Morris, Richard A
 NAGER-Leonore Y. December 21. Devoted daughter, loving sister, adored aunt, dedicated volunteer, vivacious dancer. Loved by all who met her.       
 OBENZINGER-Romana. Age 87, on December 20, 2001. Beloved wife of Nathan, deceased just 8 weeks ago. Dear sister of Zosha, loving mother of the late Ronald, Mark and Hilton, and cherished grandmother to Rachel, Isaac and Eric. Her love for her husband took her to him yet her loving spirit st
 SOSNOW-Kate. On December 21, 2001 at the age of 91 of Kings Point, N.Y. and Miami Beach, Fla. Loving wife of the late Morris Sosnow. Devoted mother of Bernice and the late Jerrold Lieberman, Lorraine and Irving Aaron, Sheila and Richard Nagler. Beloved sister of Betty Benstock. Adored Nana 
 VAUGHN-Charlotte. Born in Boston, MA, she grew up in Jaffrey, NH, and Long Island, NY. After graduating from Chatham Hall, she received a BA from Smith College. She began her teaching career in New York City and later moved to San Francisco, where she taught at the Hamlin School, where she 
 WEINSTEIN-Cecilia. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member Cecilia Weinstein and extends heartfelt sympathy to her entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Ferne Skiba, President       
 WINKLER-Claire. AMIT is deeply saddened by the passing of a passionate volunteer and benefactor of AMIT's needy children in Israel. A true woman of valor and cherished by all those who knew her, Claire Winkler lead a life devoted to Torah values, Israel and the Jewish community. Heartfelt c
 PAGANO-Helen Baum Laitin. 81, of White Plains, NY, died December 23, 2001, of leukemia. Beloved wife of Frank Pagano, loving mother of Julie Laitin and Laurie Laitin Bergner, grandmother of Joel and Elizabeth, great-grandmother of Jacob. We will miss her spark, energy and joie de vivre. Fun
 BERNHARDT - Ruth Schonzeit, 101. Beloved mother of Helen Carr (deceased), Marcia Model, Lisa Leblang and Joyce Siegel, wife of the late New York State Supreme Court Justice Maurice Bernhardt, grandmother of ten loving grandchildren and sixteen great-grandchildren, on December 23. She moved 
 KAMIEN-Anna, 89. Died November 27, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Michel, mother of Roger Kamien and Sheila Ainbinder. Devoted mother-in-law of Anita Kamien and Dr. Alfred Ainbinder. Cherished grandmother of Mira Ainbinder, David and Joshua Kamien and Adina Kamien-Kazhdan and their respecti
 KATZ-Phyllis. Farewell to our beautiful Phyllis. We will miss her love and friendship and will cherish forever the good times the four of us shared. We were a great team. A Renaisance woman, with profound intellect, her spirit will live on through her music and art. She fought the battle of
 MEYER-Rhona Mahler Stein. Although Rhona Stein moved to Ridgefield, CT 15 months ago to marry Dean Meyer, she was a true New Yorker. Rhona was born in Brooklyn, and was a longtime resident of Oceanside, NY. Rhona's fervent love of life, love of people-and we mustn't forget to mention her lo
 PATLIN-Rose B. NYC August 31, 1914. Beloved wife of Sonny. Mother of Wendy & Michael. G'mother to Sean, Scott, Courtenay, Daniel, & Will. ''She could walk into a desert & come out with a friend''. We will miss her. November 1, 2001.       
 POPPER-Helen Krass on December 24, 2001, at age 90. Beloved wife of the late Edward Popper. Loving mother of Jane & Warren Zorek and John and Abby Popper. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer and Mark Pressman, Michael Zorek and Shelly Friedland, Robert Arthur Popper and Marta Melvin & Juliett
 WEIN-Charlotte. Beloved wife of Herbert for over 50 years. Predeceased by her loving brother Rudy; sister-in-law of Dr. Mark Imberman, and of Ron, Robert, Deborah, and Ingrid; cousin of Michaela and Ruti; most valued friend of Greta Loebl, Herta Klinger, Harriet Rader, Giselle Neely and Ros
 WINDERBAUM-Harriet (nee Bender), 85. On December 24, 2001 of cancer. Beloved wife of Harold for 62 years and loving mother to Michael (Rae) and Larry (Helene). Adoring grandmother of Anna (Gary), Nomi (Jim), Elise and Eli. Devoted daughter to Nathan and Celia and sister of Shirley Leonard a
 LANGFORD-Jane. Died on Dec. 23, 2001 at age 82. Cherished wife of Alan, beloved mother of Jeffrey and Karen, loving grandmother of Jason and Julian. We will miss her enormously.       
 MATHIAS-Sophie R. Devoted wife of the late Victor, beloved mother of Sheila Schoenfeld (Stanley), Alvin (Leslie), & Steven (Joyce), adored grandmother of Michael and Gary, Lisa and Pamela, Sam and Michael, loving great grandmother of Sarah and Kyle, and Jake. Cherished brother of Joe Shtund
 PLESSNER-Mary. On December 24, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Henri Plessner. Beloved mother of Rene Plessner and Liliane Kates and her husband Fred. Cherished grandmother of Marc, Andrew and his wife Jody and the late David Froehlich. Devoted greatgrandmother of Michael, Barrie and Gabriel
 POPPER-Helen Krass on December 24, 2001, at age 90. Beloved wife of the late Edward Popper. Loving mother of Jane & Warren Zorek and John and Abby Popper. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer and Mark Pressman, Michael Zorek and Shelly Friedland, Robert Arthur Popper and Marta Melvin & Juliett
 SOLOMON-Elaine. On December 25, 2001. Cherished and devoted wife of Martin Solomon; mother and best friend of Dane, Scott and Lisa Reibman; grandmother of Lindsey, Jared, Adam and Arielle and loyal friend to many. Born in New York on March 1, 1937. To know her was to love her. We will miss 
 WOLF-Elsie. Age 83, on December 23, 2001, in New York City. Loving wife of the late Bernard Kurt. Caring mother of Nicole and her son-in-law Gary Mayer. Dedicated grandmother to Daniella and Marc. Her loving, caring and giving relationship with both her friends and her family touched us in 
 Catherine Voorsanger, an associate curator of American decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Monday in New York City. She was 51 and lived in Manhattan. She died of complications of melanoma, said her family. Ms. Voorsanger worked at the Met since 1983, 
 BIRD-Elizabeth W. 78, of NYC and Clearwater, FL. Passed away December 18th, 2001. Her husband, the Reverend Samuel B. Bird, Pastor of St. Thomas Church, NYC, predeceased her. Her daughter, Lisa B. Potter of Sante Fe, NM, & grandchildren, Bancroft, Whitney and Catherine Potter, as well as ni
 DUPEE-Martha. On December 24, 2001, sister of Mary McGurn and her husband George. She was a co-founder of the Madison Avenue Children's Christmas Fund and former Board Member of Partnership with Children and Millay Colony for the Arts. Martha's indomitable spirit in enduring her physical ch
 FREY-Helen T. Retired past President of the Flatbush Federal S&L Association of Brooklyn. Died December 25, 2001. She had been with the Association from 1941 and served as President from 1957 to 1987. She is survived by two sisters, Florence M. Becker and Dorothy J. Murray, niece Patricia M
 KAJIWARA-Mari. We grieve the untimely death of Mari Kajiwara, artist, beloved friend and associate. The funeral took place on December 25th, 2001 in Tel Aviv, Israel. Ohad Naharin And All Her Loving Friends at The Batsheva Dance Company       
 KERLIN-Sarah M. The Board of Directors and staff of Wave Hill mourn the loss of our beloved friend Sally Kerlin. Sally's vision guided the creation of Wave Hill's many educational programs and her generosity planted the seeds of knowledge that will intrigue and inspire generations to love a
 LOWENTHAL-Helene D, age 81, on December 25th, 2001. Beloved mother of Edward, Susan, Jane, Andrew and Amy. Loving grandmother of Deborah, Jennifer, David, Jared, Lauren, Joshua, Jeremy, Jason, Daniel, and Sarah. Devoted mother-in-law of Ilene and Sharon. She lived her life as a giver, not o
 MIRRER-Esther. On December 23, in Miami Beach, FL. Beloved wife of the late Frank. Devoted mother of Margorie Fagan, and husband Richard Fagan, Suzi Malcy, and her husband Richard Malcy. Cherished ''Nannie'' of Jason Malcy, Derek Winston, and Lucy Fagan. Her memory will live on through all 
 NAGER-Leonore. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its longstanding member and extends heartfelt condolences to her entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Lewis Freedman, President       
 POPPER-Helen. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of Helen Krass Popper, a dedicated member of the board and a beloved friend. Through her many years of dedicated service to the 92nd Street Y community, Helen enriched the lives of so many. She will be deeply missed. Our hear
 SMITH-Elena Esther Levine, 39. Wednesday, December 26, at her home in Dennis, Massachusetts, of cancer. Cherished wife of Paul Smith. Beloved daughter of Emily and Larry Levine. Adored sister of Anne Levine and Joseph Brillinger and Jeffrey Brillinger. Elena was a graphic artist, jeweler an
 STROCHLITZ-Rose. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University and Bar-Ilan University in Israel mourn the passing of Rose Strochlitz, beloved wife of our devoted leader, Sigmund Strochlitz. Together with her husband, who is Secretary of the American Board of Trustees and member of the Global
 TARULLI-Amelia. On December 26, 2001. Survived by her loving family Gerald, Marjorie and Anthony. Also survived by her cherished grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Friends may call at the Thomas F. Dalton Funeral Home, 125 Hillside Avenue, New Hyde Park, New York, Thursday and Friday 2-
 VOORSANGER-Catherine Hoover, 51. Died from complications of melanoma, December 24, 2001. Born in San Francisco, December 18, 1950, she was the daughter of Beatrice B. Slater and Robert C. Hoover. She attended the Katherine Delmar Burke School, Smith College and received her doctorate in the
 AMBES-Emmy. 1911-2001. Loving wife of 53 years of the previously deceased George Ambes and cherished cousin to Gerty, Mickaela, Rutie, Ron, Robert and Deborah. Valued friend to Rosa Chinchilla and many others. A bright, witty and charitable woman who had a love and deep understanding of cla
 BATDORF-OSGOOD-Terrie L. On December 27, 2001, after a long and heroic battle with cancer. Beloved wife of Harvey. Loving stepmother to Hilary & Todd. Adoring grandmother to Jessica & Jacob. Enthusiastic booster of her hometown, Wauseon, OH. Loyal alumnus of Ohio University. Dedicated emplo
 COLOMBOS-Amalia M. Of Malba, New York and formerly of Manchester, New Hampshire. Died on Dec. 25, 2001 at her home after a sudden illness. Born in Fourka, Greece. She was the daughter of Constantinos G. & Haidou (Florou) Zioze. She moved to NYC after her marriage to Michael N. Colombos who 
 COLOMBY-Elsie. Died on December 23, 2001 at age 95. Beloved mother of Harry, Bobby and the late Jules. Elsie will be greatly missed by all those she has touched with her kindness and generosity. In lieu of flowers the family requests that donations be made to Mother Cabrini Shrine.       
 DUPEE-Martha. On December 24, 2001, sister of Mary McGurn and her husband George. She was a co-founder of the Madison Avenue Children's Christmas Fund and former Board Member of Partnership with Children and Millay Colony for the Arts. Martha's indomitable spirit in enduring her physical ch
 HECHT-Charlotte. Died peacefully on December 26, 2001, age 92. The beloved wife of the late Gunther, loving mother of Irene, dearest mother-in-law of Zack Hart, cherished grandmother of Jonathan and Evan. She was a Holocaust survivor. Her smile, warmth and kindness will be remembered and lo
 LIEBOWITZ-Doris Brookner. Died Dec. 26, 2001 at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Hy Liebowitz. Proud mother, mother-in-law and grandmother of Alexander, Denise, Jonathan and Ruth, Jeremy and Leah Phayer and David. Art teacher for many years at PS 380, Brooklyn, ''The John Wayne School''. De
 McDONOUGH-Mamie. The staff and board of Settlement Housing Fund will miss their dear friend Mamie. Her flair and zest are irreplaceable. Carol Lamberg       
 SMITH-Elena Esther Levine, 39. Wednesday, December 26, at her home in Dennis, Massachusetts, of cancer. Cherished wife of Paul Smith. Beloved daughter of Emily and Larry Levine. Adored sister of Anne Levine and Joseph Brillinger and Jeffrey Brillinger. Elena was a graphic artist, jeweler an
 STANTON-Catherine Colgan. Of Yorktown Heights, NY, died December 27, 2001. She was 54. Mrs. Stanton was President of Catherine C. Stanton, Inc. She is survived by her husband Henry, son Michael, daughters Catherine, Sheila and Maura, mother Catherine, sister Gail Brown and brothers Donald a
 STROCHLITZ-Rose. The officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds deeply mourn the passing of Rose Strochlitz, beloved wife of Sigmund Strochlitz, General Chairman of the State of Israel Bonds Elie Wiesel Annual Holocaust Remembrance Dinner, and mother of Romana, Halina, Rafael and Jaime. Ro
 VOORSANGER - Dr. Catherine Hoover. We deeply mourn the loss of our distinguished alumna and colleague, who was without peer in the field of nineteenth-century American decorative arts, and extend condolences to her husband, Bart, and to her entire family. Frances Degen Horowitz President, C
 WEIN-Charlotte. Beloved wife of Herbert for over 50 years. Predeceased by her loving brother Rudy; sister-in-law of Dr. Mark Imberman; aunt of Ron, Robert, Deborah, and Ingrid; cousin of Michaela and Ruti; most valued friend of Greta Loebl, Herta Klinger, Harriet Rader, Giselle Neely and Ro
 WIEN-Marjorie Feterson. Sisterin-law of the late Lawrence A. Wien, 87, passed away on December 25. Miami Beach was her home for 66 years. She was born in New York City, May 8, 1914. She met her future husband Leonard A. Wien at a Pi Lambda Phi Fraternity party at New York University in 1930
 BACHRACH-Erika, 89. On December 27th. Survived by her son, Henry, grandson Michael, and daughter-in-law, Ilse, and many loving friends and family.       
 COZINE-Kathryn, Dr. Together with her beloved family, the Division of Breast Surgery at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center mourns the passing of Dr. Kathryn Cozine, a valued member of our Department of Anesthesiology. She was an outstanding physician and an ardent patient advocate as well
 KATZ-Phyllis. The artists, board and staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center note with sorrow the passing of our patron and friend, Phyllis Katz. A gifted and accomplished artist in her own right, Phyllis brought a special quality of insight and understanding to her generous su
 WAGENBERG-Sophie. Town and Village Synagogue-Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its long standing member and extends heartfelt condolences to her son Benjamin and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Lewis Freedman, President       
 BEATTY-Betty M. Age 76 years, on December 27, 2001. Beloved aunt, great aunt and great-great aunt. Former social worker in various positions for the City of New York. Graveside service Sunday, December 30th, 3PM at Wellwood Cemetery, Pinelawn, N.Y. She'll be greatly missed. For further info
 BOOT-Claude. On December 28. Former model. Dear friend of John, Gene, David, Phyllis, Anthony, Doreen and Allison. She was also well loved by many others from the Art Students League. Reposing Redden Funeral Home, 325 W. 14 St, NYC, Sunday, 12-4PM. Funeral mass Monday, 9:30 AM, St. Vincent 
 CODDINGTON-Winifred Gould. On December 14, 2001 at age 89. Long time resident of Great Neck, NY, and recently of Idaho Falls, ID. She is survived by her four children: Stewart Gould Coddington, of Great Neck, NY; Katherine Dana Dolan, of Lafayette, CO; Clifford Van Wyck Coddington, of NYC, 
 COLEN-Marcia (Peg) Sufrin. At 81, on November 9, in Chapel Hill, NC. Pre-deceased by her beloved husband Donald (Don) in 1994. She leaves a son, B.D., his wife and three grandchildren. She was a kind, caring, compassionate friend for 54 years. Eternal memory.       
 FRANCO-Muriel. Passed on December 20, 2001, at age 89. Adored and loving mother of Elaine Krieger. She was a devoted relative, friend and media colleague. In lieu of flowers, donations to Fisher Center for Alzheimer's Research Foundation, 1 Intrepid Square, W. 46th and 12th Ave., NYC 10036.
 HECHT-Elena Sue (nee Sadock). Loving mother of Joshua. Beloved sister of M. William and Benjamin. Grateful friend to her devoted caregiver, Anita. Died peacefully on Saturday, December 29, 2001. Elena endured all with grace, humility and love. She will be deeply mourned by all those who kne
 KATZ-Phyllis. The artists, board and staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center note with sorrow the passing of our patron and friend, Phyllis Katz. A gifted and accomplished artist in her own right, Phyllis brought a special quality of insight and understanding to her generous su
 KERLIN-Sally. Bank Street College of Education mourns the passing of Sally Kerlin, Board Chair Emerita, Life Trustee and beloved friend. She was a link in the strong chain of women who cared about the education of young children, and served them and their families throughout her lifetime. W
 McDONOUGH-Mamie. The board and staff at the Bedford Stuyvesant Family Health Center are deeply saddened by the loss of their dear friend and advisor. Her high energy, intellectual acurity and compassion will be missed. However, knowing her has transformed us all, forever. Charles Palms, Uly
 NEHMS-Marion S. 83, of Vero Beach, FL, and Marion, MA, died Wednesday, December 26, 2001, in Albuquerque, NM. Mrs. Nehms was a graduate of Trenton State College, Ewing Lakes, NJ. Wife of the late Howard E. Nehms, Mrs. Nehms is survived by four children, Jeffrey H. Nehms of Palo Alto, CA, Ja
 PREISER-Sarah. Died peacefully at home December 28, 2001, age 23. Cherished daughter of Gary and Lynda (Litz) Preiser, adored sister of Rebecca, and beloved granddaughter of Ruth & Marvin Preiser & Charles & Ginger Litz. Born June 13, 1978, at Walton, NY, she was a graduate of the Universit
 SATLOF-Marcia (nee Lange). Age 95, beloved wife of the late Dr. Leo Satlof died on Dec. 24, 2001 in Watsonville, CA. She was born in New York City and lived there until moving to Sunrise, FL and then to Watsonville, CA. She was the mother of Phyllis Levine of Scott's Valley, California, Dr.
 STROCHLITZ-Rose. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and its governing Council mourn the passing of Rose Strochlitz, mother of Council member Romana Primus and wife of Sigmund Strochlitz, former Council member and a leader in Holocaust remembrance in the United States. A Holocaust s
 THADDEUS-Janice Farrar. On December 23, 2001, of a stroke in Cambridge, MA. Beloved wife of Patrick and mother of Eva and Michael, she is also survived by a brother, Curtis Farrar, and a sister, Alison Wilson. As a teacher of English literature for over forty years at Barnard and Harvard, s
 WISE-Virginia Irene (nee Maloney). 78, of West Palm Beach, FL, passed away December 23, 2001. Born Bronx, NY. Daughter of the late Thomas and Mary (Bell) Maloney. Beloved wife of the late George Wise. Survived by her loving daughters Virginia Privitar and Victoria Youngberg; grandchildren D
 HECHT-Elena Sue (nee Sadock). Loving mother of Joshua. Beloved sister of M. William and Benjamin. Grateful friend to her devoted caregiver, Anita. Died peacefully on Saturday, December 29, 2001. Elena endured all with grace, humility and love. She will be deeply mourned by all those who kne
 HERMAN-Margaret. On December 28, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Devoted mother of Barbara Scansarole and Steven Herman. Dear mother-in-law of Jack Scansarole and Laurie Herman. Cherished grandmother of Deborah Galvez and her husband Chris, Thomas Scansarole, Ellie Herman and Sam Her
 HUGHES-Angela Beattie. 101, on December 29, 2001, of Garden City. Beloved wife of the late William A. Hughes. Dear mother of Angela Dolores Hughes and Regina Hughes Haffey and her husband Joseph. Devoted grandmother of Patricia Clemency, Regina O'Connell, Anne Haffey, Joseph Haffey Jr. and 
 KATZ-Phyllis. The Officers, Board of Directors of Kason Industries and its family of companies are deeply saddened by the loss of Phyllis Katz-Corporate Secretary and member of the Board of Directors. A tireless worker, Phyllis was a source of both stability and growth and a friend to all a
 LINDAUER-Joann. Of West Harrison, died on December 27, 2001. She was 62. She is survived by her husband Howard Lindauer, daughter Lisa, and son Jason. Also survived by two brothers, Norton and Howard Huttner. She was a loving aunt and great aunt to many nephews and nieces. For information c
 NEHMS-Marion S. 83, of Vero Beach, FL, and Marion, MA, died Wednesday, December 26, 2001, in Albuquerque, NM. Mrs. Nehms was a graduate of Trenton State College, Ewing Lakes, NJ. Wife of the late Howard E. Nehms, Mrs. Nehms is survived by four children, Jeffrey H. Nehms of Palo Alto, CA, Ja
 SHECHTER-Florence. In her 88th year after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Barus (Buddy). Cherished mother of Sam (Evi) and the late Judd. Grandmother and great-grandmother. Shiva until Friday morning.       
