 Joan Mareskas Kormendi, the longtime artistic director of the Children's Repertory Group, whose child actors performed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on May 18 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 81. The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Kath
 DOUGLAS-Harriet (Meyer). Of Goshen, NY, formerly of New York City, died May 30, in Goshen at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Harold S. Douglas. Loving mother of Dr. Robert L. Douglas (Marjorie), Susan D. Feibus (Howard). She is survived by nine sisters, one brother, predeceased by one 
 GREENBERG-Renee. Died May 28, at the Hebrew Home at Riverdale after an extended illness. She was the devoted wife of Irving, loving mother of Steffi and Joel, and adoring grandmother of Kathy, Linda and Mike.       
 HELWEG-Usha Mehta. On May 28, 1998. 69 years old. Surviving are her husband, Arthur Helweg and her two children, Priya and Rajesh Helweg, three brothers and three sisters. Memorial service in Kalamazoo, MI, Saturday, June 6, 11 AM. In lieu of flowers contributions to Christian Childrens Fun
 LEVINE-Shirley. Beloved wife of Jules. Devoted mother of Dr. Robert and Dr. Johanan. Dear sister of Rose Fischner. Dearest aunt of Aaron and Ronald Neretin and their families. Fond grandmother of Didi. Devoted teacher of generations of New York City kindergartners. Loved by all who knew her
 PESKOFF-Josephine Porter. Of New York City and London, England, died quietly of old age, 90 years, and its complications. She is survived by her son Michael. She was a remarkable woman who lived a very full life and gave a lot of happiness to all who were lucky enough to meet her. She will 
 Mary Elizabeth Grenander, a longtime professor of English who was an authority on the American writer Ambrose Bierce, known for his satirical wit and his horror stories, died in her sleep on Thursday at her home in East Berne, N.Y. She was 79. Professor Grenander, known as M. E. Gre
 ALLEN-Stella B. Former Director of Field Operations of the N.Y.C. Department for the Aging, long time member of Community Board 7, innovator or many services for the elderly died Saturday, May 30. She was the adored wife of the late Daniel I. Allen, poet, union organizer and activist with w
 BARON-Carol S. Born September 26, 1912 in New York City passed away May 30, 1998 in Los Angeles where she resided for nearly fifty years. A Smith College graduate, she was a secretary at CBS Television for more than twenty years until her retirement in 1977. During her career, she worked on
 GOTTLIEB-Lilly on May 30, 1998. Beloved mother of George Brent and mother-in-law of Chickie Bucco. Devoted sister of Gizella Klein. Adoring grandmother of Andrew Brent. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81st St Tuesday, June 2 at 11:30am. In lieu of flowers, contributions 
 KINDRED-Gloria E. Widow of Rollan Rochelle. A native New Yorker, she spent many years in advertising becoming a highly respected systems analyst. She returned to school in 1985 and graduated Summa Cum Laude from Fordham University at Lincoln Center in 1995. She belonged to two honor societi
 KOH-Estelle. On June 1. Beloved wife of the late Herbert, loving mother of Lawrence and Beverly Koh, Barry and Susan Koh, and Myra and Charles Sobel. Cherished grandmother and greatgrandmother. Dear sister of Evelyn Drespel. A woman of valor whose life set an example for all who knew her. S
 LEVINE-Shirley. Beloved wife of Jules. Devoted mother of Dr. Robert and Dr. Johanan. Dear sister of Rose Fischner. Dearest aunt of Aaron and Ronald Neretin and their families. Fond grandmother of Didi. Devoted teacher of generations of New York City kindergartners. Loved by all who knew her
 PERLMAN-Joyce. A devoted, caring friend. Her family and friends were the backbone of her life. Our shared memories will be forever. To Norman, her children and grandchildren she leaves a loving heritage. Tanya and Ronald LeBovici Marcia and Carl Turetsky       
 POLLET-Annette (new Berenberg). Passed away in her home in West Palm Beach, May 30. Harlem Hospital Chemist, New York City elementary teacher, dancerfolk, square, rounds, bridge and tennis player, firm friend, lover of husband Henry, son Robert, daughter-in-law Donna, and three accomplished
 RUSSELL-Clara Lulis. Died June 1 in Detroit. Beloved wife of the late Harold F., dearest mother of Kathryn, James and the late Philip. Dear sister of Emma, Herman and the late Matilda, Edward and John. Aunt of David Lulis, Maryanne Massman, Mel Nusbaum, Jack and Edward Lulis and Betty Vlase
 SACKS-Shirley, Ed.D. The Board of the National Council on Women's Health mourns the passing of its beloved and highly respected member. As editor-in-chief, she triumphed in turning the newsletter into a great source of information on women's health issues. Her enduring legacy of empowering 
 Dorothy Stickney, who created the role of the mother in ''Life with Father'' and also appeared in many other Broadway hits during a career that spanned more than 50 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 101. ''Life with Father,'' by Howard Lindsay (Miss Stickney's 
 BALLOU-Audrey. Of New Canaan, CT. On May 31, 1998. Survivors include her son Donald C. Ballou, Jr. of Chittenden, VT., her daughter Patsy Trevillian of Charlotesville, VA., a brother Robert P. Knickerbocker of Glastonbury, CT., four grandchildren and two great grandchildren. Memorial servic
 CLARE-Barbara K. Died on Saturday, May 30, 1998 from complications of cancer, which she had fought with courage, determination and humor. She was the widow of N. Holmes Clare. She is survived by her three children Marcia C. Lucas of Charleston, SC, Christina C. Evans and N. Holmes Clare Jr,
 DICKSTEIN-Gussie. The beloved wife of the late George Dickstein, former Umpire-in-Chief and Official Rules Interpreter of The Amateur Softball Association of America, died at the age of 89 in Boca Raton, on Monday June 1. She was one of a kind and will be sorely missed by son Dick, her daug
 FELDMAN-Miriam, nee Ellin on June 1, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Herbert. Beloved mother of Madeleine, Amy, Peter, Sharon, Leslie & Michael. Adoring grandmother of Spencer, Harrison, Courtney, James, William, Jillian, Sandy, Dana, Kimberly & Joshua. Dear sister of Selma and Helen. In lie
 KOH-Estelle. On June 1. Beloved wife of the late Herbert, loving mother of Lawrence and Beverly Koh, Barry and Susan Koh, and Myra and Charles Sobel. Cherished grandmother and greatgrandmother. Dear sister of Evelyn Drespel. A woman of valor whose life set an example for all who knew her. S
 KOLODIN-Rosalie M. Powell, 87, on 5/30/98, of Amherst, MA.; formerly of Bloomfield, N.J. Laid to rest with her sweetie Les. Rose, you lit up the world.       
 KRAUS-Anne. Devoted wife of the late Walter. Beloved mother of Lawrence and Lori and the late Melvin. Adored grandmother of Mark, and Jason. Services Thursday 11:30AM at Schwartz Brothers Jeffer Memorial, Queens Blvd and 76th Road, Forest Hills. KRAUS-Anne. The Board of Directors, s
 POLLET-Annette (nee Berenberg). Passed away in her home in West Palm Beach, May 30. Harlem Hospital Chemist, New York City elementary teacher, dancerfolk, square, rounds, bridge and tennis player, firm friend, lover of husband Henry, son Robert, daughter-in-law Donna, and three accomplished
 RENNIE-Jean Tower of Palm Beach, Florida and Milwaukee, Wisconsin died Sunday at her home in Florida. Her zest of life and energy will be missed by all who knew her. Burial will be Tuesday in Louisville, KY. Memorial service will be held in Palm Beach in November. In lieu of flowers contrib
 RUSSELL-Clara Lulis. Died June 1 in Detroit. Beloved wife of the late Harold F., dearest mother of Kathryn, James and the late Philip. Dear sister of Emma, Herman and the late Matilda, Edward and John. Aunt of David Lulis, Maryanne Massman, Mel Nusbaum, Jack and Edward Lulis and Betty Vlase
 MADDOX-Gloria Jean. Actress and theatre teacher, died in her Connecticut home on May 11th. A celebration of her life will be held June 7th at 6 P.M. at The John Houseman Theatre, 450 W 42 St.       
 ALLEN-Stella. The Board of Directors and Staff of Project FIND mourn the passing of our longtime Board Member, Stella Allen. Her lifetime of contributions to the welfare of NYC's elderly will continue to be felt for years to come.       
 BERGER-Gerald J. The Office of the President of Continuum Health Partners, Inc., acknowledges with deep sadness the passing of Gerald J. Berger, beloved brother of our dear friend Jeanne Principe. To Jeanne, her sister-in-law Frances, her nieces Jennifer, Samantha and Jaclyn, her parents Ma
 BOZZA-Lucia Veronica. Born May 3, 1998, died May 31, 1998. Beloved daughter of Patricia and Fausto Bozza. Granddaughter of Rosemary and Robert Shaw and the late Mina Cravi-Bozza and Cetteo Fausto Bozza. Friends may call at Walter B. Cooke, 117 West 72 St, Thurs 6-9pm. Funeral Mass Sat 10am,
 FELDMAN-Miriam, nee Ellin on June 1, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Herbert. Beloved mother of Madeleine, Amy, Peter, Sharon, Leslie & Michael. Adoring grandmother of Spencer, Harrison, Courtney, James, William, Jillian, Sandy, Dana, Kimberly & Joshua. Dear sister of Selma and Helen. In lie
 IANNIZZI-Vincenza. Devoted wife of the late Vincent. Cherished mother of Domenick, Elizabeth, Michael, and the late Frank. She is also survived by eight grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren, and her sister Rae Esposito. Reposing at Andrew Torregrossa & Sons Funeral Home, 1305 79 St., Br
 KATZ-Malwine. The Aleph Society extends its heartfelt sympathy to our dear friend, Margo Kann, daughter, and her husband Fred. Our sincere condolences to the entire family, may they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Adin Steinsaltz Ludwig Bravmann, President Jack 
 KRAUS-Anne. Devoted wife of the late Walter. Beloved mother of Lawrence and Lori and the late Melvin. Adored grandmother of Mark, and Jason. Services Thursday 11:30AM at Schwartz Brothers Jeffer Memorial, Queens Blvd and 76th Road, Forest Hills. KRAUS-Anne. The Board of Directors, s
 LEVINE-Eva. The Lillian Wald Nurses Council of The New York Chapter of Hadassa, mourns the passing of our devoted friend and Board Member on June 3, 1998, after a valiant struggle with cancer. An oncology nurse, Eva dedicated her life to easing the suffering of others. Our heartfelt condole
 LUBASH-Miriam Scheff. Died June 3, 1998, quietly of complications of old age in her 95th year. Wife, mother, grandmother, sister and friend, she was a remarkable woman who enjoyed a full active life. She will be missed by all who were fortunate to know her and share her happiness. Service T
 NEALE-Claudia Garesche of Chappaqua, New York died June 3 at her home following a lengthy battle with Cancer. Mrs. Neale was the daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. Claude F. Garesche of Saint Louis, Missouri. She was born on November 29, 1923. She was an Alumna, and active benefactor of The 
 OSBORNE-Hertha. Of Amawalk, on June 3, 1998. Beloved wife of William. Loving mother of Lawrence and Barrie Osborne, and Wendy Phelps. Dear sister of Lillian Axel and Bert Schwarz. Cherished grandmother of Aaron Osborne, Jennifer Phelps Montgomery, Zachary Phelps and Danielle Osborne. Family
 PETERKA-Harryetta. The American Academy of Dramatic Arts announces with sorrow the tragic passing of Harryetta Peterka, Director of Instruction, on Tuesday, June 2. Herself a graduate of the Academy, she was a recipient of the Jehlinger Award in 1958, the highest honor bestowed upon an Acad
 RENNIE-Jean Tower of Palm Beach, Florida and Milwaukee, Wisconsin died Sunday at her home in Florida. Her zest of life and energy will be missed by all who knew her. Burial will be Tuesday in Louisville, KY. Memorial service will be held in Palm Beach in November. In lieu of flowers contrib
 STICKNEY-Dorothy. The Zonta Club of New York mourns the passing of Dorothy Stickney, member of our organization for forty one years. As an individual and esteemed actress, she exemplified our object of advancing the status of women worldwide. ''We are such stuff as dreams are made on, and o
 LEWIS-Gertrude. The partners and staff of Lipsky, Goodkin & Company, PC, are deeply saddened at the passing of Mrs. Gertrude Lewis, beloved mother of Mrs. Janice Schneider wife of ourvery much respected and esteemed partner and friend Mr. Daniel Schneider, and grandmother of our also esteem
 PETERKA-Harryetta. The American Academy of Dramatic Arts announces with sorrow the tragic passing of Harryetta Peterka, Director of Instruction, on Tuesday, June 2. Herself a graduate of the Academy, she was a recipient of the Jehlinger Award in 1958, the highest honor bestowed upon an Acad
 YELLEN-Paula. (nee Kurzman), June 2, 1998. Wife of John J. Yellen, Jr., of Narberth, PA, formerly of NY. Mother of Cathy D. Rebennack and Amy J. Yellen-Shaw. Mother-in-law of Malcolm Rebennack and Carl Shaw. Grandmother of Sarah and Emma. Memorial services will be held Sunday. The family re
 Harryetta Peterka, director of instruction of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts, died on Tuesday at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. She was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was injuries sustained when she was struck by a bicycle messenger while crossing Madison Aven
 PETERKA-Harryetta. The American Academy of Dramatic Arts announces with sorrow the tragic passing of Harryetta Peterka, Director of Instruction, on Tuesday, June 2. Herself a graduate of the Academy, she was a recipient of the Jehlinger Award in 1958, the highest honor bestowed upon an Acad
 Anne Kraus, who was inspired by the plight of her firstborn to devote herself to those with mental retardation and other developmental disabilities, died on Monday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in Queens. She was 73 and lived in Rego Park, Queens. The cause was leukemia, her 
 CORNING-Barbara. June 3, 1998. Beloved daughter of the late Gardner Corning and the late Charlotte Bayne Corning. Services Tuesday, June 9 at 1PM, Fifth Ave. Presbyterian Church, 5th Ave at 55th St. A reception will follow. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Womens Bible Society
 DICKMAN-Donna. The Board of Directors, members, and staff of the League for the Hard of Hearing mourn the untimely death of the Executive Director of the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf. Donna was a consummate professional, and advocate whose commitment to helping deaf and ha
 DUNSTON-Clary. Peacefully on June 5, 1998 at age 98. Beloved mother of Marietta Moskin and grandmother of two. She will be missed. A memorial service to be announced.       
 JACOBSON-Arline. Much beloved by husband Paul, children Linda and Jeff, grandchildren Anna, Julia, Craig, Johanna and Lillie and brother and sister, Lawrence and Janet. She will be dearly missed.       
 LANDE-Dorothy E. Died June 6, 1998. Beloved wife of Bernard Lande, mother of Carol Davis, Hank Levy and Stephen Lande, mother-in-law of Marilyn Levy, grandmother of Robyn Davis, Farrah Davis, Dean Lande, Dana Lande, Erica Levy, Evan Davis and Jaclyn Levy. A caring and loving person, who lov
 McCAFFREY-Sarah Lillian Tubb. Wife, mother and inspiration for Tom, Cindy, Clare, Tommy, David and Michael. We will miss our Yellow Rose of Texas for her loving guidance, sharp mind and irrepressible humor. Memorial service will be held 5 PM, Thursday, June 11, at First Presbyterian Church,
 PETERKA-Harryetta. The American Academy of Dramatic Arts announces with sorrow the tragic passing of Harryetta Peterka, Director of Instruction, on Tuesday, June 2. Herself a graduate of the Academy, she was a recipient of the Jehlinger Award in 1958, the highest honor bestowed upon an Acad
 RIBAKOVE-Rae. Beloved wife of the late Julius. Daughter of the late Anna and Joseph Homelsky. She is survived by her sister Fannie Halperin and her nephews David and Edward Halperin, their wives and children. She was a devoted, loving and loyal wife, sister and aunt who expressed herself mo
 TREVES-Renata Colombo. Of Palm Beach, Florida, formerly of New York, died Saturday, June 6 in New York, surrounded by her loving family. Born in Turin, Italy on September 26, 1918. Music and the arts were her life long passion. Wife of the late Peter G. Treves. Mother of Charles and Vivian.
 Erika Cheetham, an English medieval scholar who made a fortune translating the predictions of the 16th-century physician and astrologer Nostradamus, who gazed not only at the stars but also, legend had it, into a brass bowl of water to see visions of the future, died on May 3 in London. She
 Helen Carter, a singer and musician who was part of the Carter family dynasty of country-music entertainers, died on Tuesday at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn. She was 70 and lived in Dickson, Tenn. She had been hospitalized for gastrointestinal problems tha
 Jean Tower Rennie, the founder of the Collateral Dames, one of the first women's investment clubs in the United States, died on May 31 at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 84. The cause was heart failure, her family said. Mrs. Rennie was born in Milwaukee on Feb. 3, 1914, the dau
 CARLIN-Kathryn I. (Scanlon). Age 89 years. Of Cairo, NY. Died Sunday, June 7, 1998, at Eden Park Nursing Home, Catskill, NY after a long illness. She was born in Yonkers, NY, May 12, 1909 and was the daughter of the late Edward J. and Ida (Johnstone) Scanlon. Mass of the Christian Burial wi
 HEIFETZ-Pearl. June 6. Beloved wife of the late pianist and composer Vladmir Heifetz. Mourned and adored by her nieces and nephews, Rachel and Yitzchak Klein, Asher and Lenore Schapiro, Rabbi Israel Poleyeff, Rosalee Schapiro and their children. The family will be receiving friends on Tuesd
 HELWEG-Usha Mehta. On May 28, 1998. 60 years old. Surviving are her husband, Arthur Helweg and her two children, Priya and Rajesh Helweg, three brothers and three sisters. Memorial service in Kalamazoo, MI, Saturday, June 6, 11 AM. In lieu of flowers contributions to Christian Childrens Fun
 HOCH-Mary C. (nee Flanagan). On June 6, 1998. In her 99th year. Native of Olar-Kilkelly, County Mayo, Ireland. Beloved wife of the late John. Loving mother of John P. and Mary M. Iannuzzo. Dear grandmother of Christopher. Reposing at Riverdale Funeral Home, 5044 Broadway at 214th St., NYC, 
 KAMPEL-Clarisse B. On June 7, 1998. Adored wife of Daniel S. Kampel. Beloved aunt of John B. Ritter and stepmother of Stacie Soloway. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., Monday, June 8, at 7-9 PM, with services Tuesday, 10 AM. In lieu of flowers, please sen
 LEVITT-Evelyn. Mamaroneck, NY. Died June 6. Beloved wife of the late Charles H. Levitt. Loved mother of Jane Levitt and Wendy and Jim Steele. Grandmother of Jennifer and Erica Steele and Benjamin Levitt. Mourned by all who knew and loved her. Graveside service at Westchester Hills Cemetery 
 McLAUGHLIN-Louise (nee Porter). Died June 7 after a long illness. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Francis McLaughlin. Loving sister of Dr. Herbert M Porter. Caring stepmother of Carol Miller. Grandmother, aunt and great-aunt to her many nieces and nephews. She will be deeply missed by her fami
 SESNON HANCOCK - Margaret (nee Johnson). Beloved mother of Sara Stoker Kendall of New York and Richard C. Stoker of Miami, Florida, and the late Henry Lauren Stoker, Jr., and stepmother of John Hancock, Jr., Linda Hancock Florie, Carol Hancock Chiaverini, and Richard Hancock, died June 2 in
 STEVENS-Selma. Beloved wife of Harold. Loving mother of Lisa and Wendy. Sister of Myrna Egeth. Adoring grandmother of David and Jennie. Mother-in-law of Marc Harary. Social work educator, she gave of herself to everyone. Services today, noon, Riverside Memorial Chapel, Mt. Vernon, NY.      
 TANZER-Estelle. Died June 7, 1998, at 78 years of age in her residence in Short Hills, NJ. She is survived by her loving husband of 55 years, three sons, two daughtersin-law and four adored grandchildren. She will be forever in our hearts. Services will be held at Schwartz Bros. Chapel at 1
 TREVES-Renata Colombo. Of Palm Beach, Florida, formerly of New York, died Saturday, June 6 in New York, surrounded by her loving family. Born in Turin, Italy on September 26, 1918. Music and the arts were her life long passion. Wife of the late Peter G. Treves. Mother of Charles and Vivian.
 Shirley Polykoff, the pioneering advertising woman who came up with a single double-entendre that changed the face, or rather turned the heads, of American society, died on Thursday at her home on Park Avenue. She was 90 and the author of the ''Does she . . . or doesn't she?'' slogan, which
 ABRAMS-Barbara Feldman. On June 2, 1998 after a gallant battle with Acute Myeloid Leukemia. Artist, sculptor, teacher & designer, she taught 20 years at Parsons School of Design. Survived by her daughters, Lauren and Emma and her husband Roy. Her interest in land preservation for all our ch
 COLTON-Dorothy Zimbler. Of Westport, CT, formerly of Manhattan, dearest mother of Andrea Lee, mother-in-law of Peter S. Britell, adoring grandmother of Nicholas and Alexander, sister of Harold Zimbler. Passed away June 7, 1998. We will miss her.       
 CORNING-Barbara B. Women's Bible Society of New York remembers fondly the twenty-nine years of dedicated service on the Board of Managers, including five years as First Directress, and extends condolences to the family of Barbara B. Corning, who went to her eternal home on Wednesday, June 3
 FRIEDBERG-Marjorie. On May 15, 1998, I lost my dear friend of over 50 years. Her many friends of long standing amongst them, Clara Fox, Lola Pergament, Jeannette and Erwin Held mourn her loss with me. She will also be missed by her colleagues and former students at NYU where she taught for 
 HEIFETZ-Pearl. June 6. Beloved wife of the late pianist and composer Vladmir Heifetz. Mourned and adored by her nieces & nephews, Rachel and Yitzchak Klein, Asher and Lenore Schapiro, Rabbi Israel Poleyeff, Rosalee Schapiro and their children. The family will be receiving friends on Tuesday
 KAMPEL-Clarisse B. On June 7, 1998. Adored wife of Daniel S. Kampel. Beloved aunt of John B. Ritter and Ernestine Clark, and stepmother of Stacie Soloway. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, June 8, at 7-9 PM, with services Tuesday, 10 AM. In l
 KNAFEL-Susan Rappaport. On June 7, 1998. Beloved wife of Sidney R. Knafel. Loving mother of Douglas R. and Andrew G. Knafel. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, on Tuesday, June 9th, at 1:30 P.M. Interment to follow at Kensico Cemetery, Valhalla, New York.      
 MILLER-Shirley Anita. Died suddenly on June 3, 1998. Survived by her mother, Edith Miller; sisters Jeanette Neff, Marjorie Hobbs; brothers Llewellyn and Frank Miller; and many nieces and nephews. Donations in her memory may be made to the Carnegie Hall Foundation. Memorial service to be hel
 MINKOWITZ-Marion (nee Kornblau). Age 89, of Brooklyn, NY. Died Sunday, June 7, 1998. Beloved wife of Jacob. Devoted mother of Dorothy Lewis, Martin Minkowitz & Renee Minkowitz. Mother-in-law of Lionel Lewis and Carol Ziegler. Loving grandmother of Tracey Okun, Jonathan Lewis and Stuart Mink
 RODESCU-Dorothea (Mami). December 18, 1922, Dorohoi, Romania-June 8, 1998, Philadelphia. Treasured mother of Alina and Julian, adoring grandmother of Benjamin, loving sister of Marcel, cherished mother-in-law of Barbara, esteemed physician & teacher at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, b
 RODZIANKO-Lubov, 95 years old. The Sovereign Order of the Orthodox Knights Hospitaller of St. John of Jerusalem notes with deep sorrow the passing of Dame Commander Grand Cross Lubov Rodzianko, LLD, June 5, 1998, in Palm Beach, Florida. Together with her late husband, Col. Paul Rodzianko II
 SULTAN-Ida. Age 89, died June 7, 1998. Beloved wife of Max, devoted mother of Edwin, Herbert, Barbara Balfour and Sharon Zareski. Adored sister of Irving Silverman and Beatrice Betheil. She will be profoundly missed by her grandchildren, family & friends. Services Garlick's, 1700 Coney Isla
 TOMS-Dawn Weston. Nicholas R. H. Toms announces the death of his beloved wife Dawn Weston Toms of cancer Sunday, June 7, 1998 at their home in Manhattan. Mrs. Toms a resident of NYC and Montauk, Long Island was born in Matatiele, South Africa on May 2, 1946. Her work as a Director of an Eur
 Josephine Hutchinson, a stage and film actress who gained prominence in the 1930's and early 40's, died on June 4 at the Florence Nightingale Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 94. After studying as a child at the Cornish School in her hometown of Seattle, Ms. Hutchinson left for se
 HOFFMAN - Dorothy Steinfeld. June 9, 1998. Loving wife of Myron B., devoted mother of Michael and Jill Shore. Devoted mother-in-law of Allan E. Shore, Jr. Loving grandmother of Jennifer, Christopher, Matthew & Sarah. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, T
 KNAFEL-Susan. The Board and staff of the New York Association for New Americans, Inc., mourn the passing of Susan Knafel, for many years a member of our Board of Directors. During that time, Susan was actively engaged in NYANA's casework, employment & training and health care committees. We
 POLYKOFF-Shirley. The Women's Forum records with sorrow the death of its longtime esteemed member and colleague, Shirley Polykoff, & extends condolences to her daughters, grandchildren and friends. Gail Blanke, President       
 SCHWIMER-Norma. On June 8, 1998. Our darling Norma passed away peacefully in her sleep. She died as she lived. We will miss her. Services Wednesday 11 A.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 Street. In lieu of flowers donations in her memory may be made to the Holy Apostle Soup K
 SHAVITZ-Selma. Of New York, formerly of Teaneck, New Jersey. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Devoted mother of Sondra Weinberg and Bernard. Mother-in-law of Harriet Shavitz. Dear sister of Rhea Fink & Corinne Leshnower. Loving grandmother of Jeffrey and Gregg. Great grandmother of Jennifer
 TOMS-Dawn Weston. Nicholas R. H. Toms announces the death of his beloved wife Dawn Weston Toms of cancer Sunday, June 7, 1998 at their home in Manhattan. Mrs. Toms a resident of NYC and Montauk, Long Island was born in Matatiele, South Africa on May 2, 1946. Her work as a Director of an Eur
 TRAVERS-Eileen Healy Canning, died June 8, Boca Raton, FL. In the '20's she starred as half of Vaudeville's dancing ''Healy Sisters.'' In '50's she was our country's first woman Chamber of Commerce President (Tenafly, N.J.). Managed with Bloomingdale's (Hackensack & New York City) and B. Al
 Mary Arnold Cahan, a New York socialite who helped organize annual benefits for the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Tuesday in her home on the East Side of Manhattan. She was 71. The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said. Mrs. Cahan, who was 
 CAHAN-Mary Arnold Sykes. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Mary Arnold Sykes Cahan, mother of our dear friend and colleague Anthony Cahan, MD, Physician-
 GAA-Ronnie Barbara Miller. November 16, 1944 to June 10, 1998, in Denver, Colorado. Resident of New York, N.Y. Survived by her husband Julian Gaa, parents Mildred & Herbert Lobel, daughters Stefanie Jacobowitz, Wendy Weigler and Jodi Miller. Mother-in-law of Marshall Jacobowitz and Steven W
 GAGLIANO-Frances. On June 9, 1998. Dedicated school teacher for over forty years, NYC Board of Ed., dear aunt of many nieces, nephews, grand-nieces and grandnephews. Loved by her students and respected by her peers. Visiting Friday 2-4, 7-9, Clavin Funeral Home, 7722 4th Ave, Brooklyn. Mass
 GIVEN-Phyllis Cassedy. On June 10, 1998, she is survived by her husband, Dr. William P., her children, Dr. William P. Jr, Robert M., and Phyllis Townsend Weaver. Memorial service will be held on Saturday, June 13 at 11 A.M. at Saint James Episcopal Church, 865 Madison Ave at 71 Street. In l
 HOFFMAN - Dorothy Steinfeld. June 9, 1998. Loving wife of Myron B., devoted mother of Michael and Jill Shore. Devoted mother-in-law of Allan E. Shore, Jr. Loving grandmother of Jennifer, Christopher, Matthew & Sarah. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Thursd
 HURWITZ-Bernard. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to our devoted member, Bernice Snyder on the loss of her beloved brother. Rabbi Seth H. Frisch Robert W. Berend, President       
 KNAFEL-Susan. In sorrow and appreciation for a dear friend of our family. We will miss her warmth and humor. We send our deepest condolences to Sidney, Doug and Andy. Meile, Peter, Stuart and Michael Rockefeller.       
 LUNAU-Elizabeth, 87. Beloved mother of Dominique Avery and grandmother of Carola Morrone of Simsbury, CT, died June 5 at her home in Manhattan. She was the daughter of Ludwig Marum, a minister in the Weimar government who was taken prisoner by the Nazis in 1933 and killed a year later. Eliz
 MAXWELL-Rhoda. On June 9, 1998. Survived by her devoted son Douglas, her brother Sanford Granowitz and sister-in-law Fern Granowitz and numerous nieces and nephews. In lieu of a funeral, a memorial service will be arranged at a time & date to be announced. Any gifts or donations may be made
 SHAVITZ-Selma. The Jewish Community Relations Council of New York mourns the passing of a dear friend and loyal supporter. Her dedication to so many Jewish causes will be sorely missed. May her loved ones be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Martin S. Begun, President Mich
 SIMOWITZ-Sylvia. June 10, 1998. Beloved wife of Arthur, devoted mother of Idan Sims, cherished grandmother of Reid Arthur Sims. She devoted many years of her life to Samaritan Village Inc., Queens, New York as a member of the board and Executive Vice President. Funeral Service Friday, June 
 Dame Catherine Cookson, a determined dockside waif who spun the dross of a squalid childhood into gold as one of Britain's most prolific and best-read novelists, died yesterday at her home in a Newcastle suburb. She was 91 and the author of more than 90 novels with a combined distribution o
 CAHAN-Mary (Sisi). Sisi made magnificent public occasions because she imbued each with personality and individualism. One will remember forever her great dinners; one will remember her forever. Richard Martin The Metropolitan Museum of Art       
 GOLDSMITH-Theresa K. On June 10, 1998. It is with great sadness and loss her family mourns a devoted and much loved woman. Wife of the late Irvin J., mother of James & Kathleen, grandmother of David, Dawn, Jonathan and Robert, and great-grandmother of David Jr. Beloved sisted of Gertrude Ka
 HYMAN-Florence (nee Bromberg). Died June 11, 1998. Dearest of Paul, her husband. Beloved sister of Alana and brother-in-law Arthur Dell. Devoted aunt of Alex, Adam and Tina. Caring and gentle, she will live on in the hearts of those she touched.       
 KAMPEL-Clarisse B. Harvard Medical School expresses deepest regret for the loss of Clarisse Kampel. Mrs. Kampel and her husband Daniel Kampel have been exemplary supporters of the Stuart H.Q. and Victoria Quan Fellowship Fund in Neurobiology through their leadership and their philanthropy. 
 MOWSHOWITZ-Libby. Z'l. Hillcrest Jewish Center mourns the passing of our beloved Rebbitzen emeritus. She devoted her life and was dedicated to the Jewish world and will be sorely missed. All the arms of the synagogue were touched by her guidance as were all the synagogue members for decades
 OROSZ-Edith, 84. On June 2, 1998 in Coral Springs, FL. Beloved wife of the late Eugene Orosz, mother of Les & Ted, loving grandmother of Michael, Paul, Elizabeth, Brooke and Jeremy. Also survived by brothers Jack, Zalman and Paul Agran. Burial was June 4, 1998. She was a tireless fundraiser
 VITAGLIANO-Kathryn Ness. On June 10, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Giuseppe. Loving mother of Maria Teresa and grandmother of Katrina and Eleanor. Services at Brick Presbyterian Church, Park Ave at 91 St, Saturday, June 13th, 11AM. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Department 
 VOSE-Margaret V.S. 85. Of Westport, CT., and wife of the late Charles B. Vose, died Monday, June 8. Mrs. Vose, daughter of the late James Frederick and Emily Vance Simpson, was a graduate of Kemper Hall, Kenosha, and the University of Wisconsin. She was past-president of the Women's Board o
 YAVNEH-Anna, 93. Died June 5. Matriarch of Northern Galilee Pioneers of Palestine; champion of Israeli statehood, passionately devoted to her extended family & her Jewish heritage. Her generosity and indomitable Sabra spirit were the hallmarks and legacy of her life. Widow of renowned Canto
 Lois Mailou Jones, an American painter and an art teacher for almost a half century at Howard University in Washington, died at her home in Washington on Tuesday. She was 92. Ms. Jones was an iconic figure, and an important historic link in a path-breaking generation of black Americ
 DRANGEL-Mildred. Beloved sister of Irwin, cherished aunt of Sheryl and Chip Kaye, and of Jason and Jessica, devoted greataunt of Nicole and Tyler. Services Sunday 11:15AM at The Riverside, 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. DRANGEL-Mildred. Her Partners and Associates at Becker, Ross, 
 FEINSETH-Miriam B. Passed away on June 11, 1998. Beloved mother of Debra Bodner and Ivan Feinseth, sister of Seymour Betman and mother-in-law of Andy Bodner. Director of Advertising and Communications for Hunter Douglas and a longtime member of the International Furnishings and Design Assoc
 FRANKEL-Ethel. Beloved wife of David. Cherished mother of Leonard. Sister of Israel Kruger, Leon Kruger, Sarah Richmond and Ada Kruger. A generous and loving person. She will be deeply missed. Services Sunday, Schoem Funeral Home, Paramus, NJ, at 10:30 A.M.       
 HARDEN-Gloria. Of New York City and Chestertown, MD. Died June 10, 1998. Born in Little Rock, AK, she was an honors graduate of Little Rock High School, Little Rock Junior College, and Marymount College in Manhattan. She was Vice President at Chase Manhattan Bank, serving on the Chairman's 
 MAISEL-Joan (nee Epstein). Beloved wife and best friend of Howard. Devoted mother of Miriam, Jennifer, David and Lynn. Doting grandmother of Jessie. Dear sister of Herbert and Susan, Natalie and the late Sidney. So full of grace, so fair of face, she was our treasure and our life. She lit u
 MOWSHOWITZ-Libby (nee Polachek), of Jamaica, N.Y. Passed away June 11, 1998. Widow of the eminent Rabbi Israel Mowshowitz; daughter of Rabbi Solomon Polachek, renowned head of the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Rabbinical Academy of Yeshiva University (''the Meitchiter Illui''); sister to Dr. Harry P
 NARINS-Frances Kross. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member Frances Kross Narins and extends its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary       
 TERRY-Elena Howell. Of Castine, ME, and Kennett Square, PA, died June 6, 1998 at York Hospital in Maine of a stroke. She was born January 18, 1914 in NYC to Helen A. Littell and Thomas A. Howell, Jr. and is a direct descendant of one of the founding families of South Hampton, LI, NY. A grad
 VITAGLIANO-Kathryn Ness. June 10, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Giuseppe. Loving mother of Maria Teresa & grandmother of Katrina and Eleanor. Services at Brick Presbyterian Church, Park Ave at 91 Street, Saturday, June 13, 11AM. Contributions in her memory may be made to the Department of 
 Jeanette Nolan, who began her film career 50 years ago as Lady Macbeth opposite Orson Welles and is now being seen as the mother of the character played by Robert Redford in ''The Horse Whisperer,'' died on June 5 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. Miss Nolan, who lived in Holly
 Mary Bancroft Boulton, a psychotherapist who helped introduce to New York City the practice of transactional analysis, which tries to help a patient correct self-destructive behavior patterns in relationships with other people, died at her home in Greenwich Village on May 30. She was 86.   
 CAHAN-Mary Arnold Sykes. Peter Marino & Associate Architects extends heartfelt condolences to the family of our dear friend and former colleague. Her charm and cheerfulness will long be remembered. Peter Marino Family and Staff       
 COWEN-Nan Fingarson. On June 10, 1998. Beloved wife of George N. Cowen. Loving mother of Peter Cowen and George Cowen Jr. Devoted grandmother of Elizabeth Tarleton Cowen. Memorial service to be held at the Greenville Community Reformed Church, 270 Ardsley Rd., Scarsdale, NY 10583, at 11 AM,
 DRANGEL-Mildred. Beloved sister of Irwin, cherished aunt of Sheryl and Chip Kaye, and of Jason and Jessica, devoted greataunt of Nicole and Tyler. Services Sunday 11:15AM at The Riverside, 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. DRANGEL-Mildred. What a talent-brilliant mind, tenacious negot
 FEINSETH-Miriam B. Passed away on June 12, 1998. Beloved mother of Debra Bodner and Ivan Feinseth, sister of Seymour Betman and mother-in-law of Andy Bodner. Director of Advertising and Communications for Hunter Douglas and a longtime member of the International Furnishings and Design Assoc
 FRANKEL-Ethel. Beloved wife of David. Cherished mother of Leonard. Sister of Israel Kruger, Leon Kruger, Sarah Richmond and Ada Kruger. A generous and loving person. She will be deeply missed. Services Sunday, Schoem Funeral Home, Paramus, NJ, at 10:30 A.M.       
 GARFIELD-Rebecca. Died on June 7, 1998 in Boynton Beach, Florida. Beloved wife of Howard. Loving mother of Arthur, Lawrence and Jeffrey. Mother-in-law of Carol, Patricia and Lynne. Grandmother of Michele, Nicole, Tracy, Lee and Jason. Her gentle spirit and devoted caring will be missed by a
 GIBSON-Irene Ann, Ph.D. On June 9, at home in her 93rd year. Born in Oswego, NY, Ms. Gibson received her degree from Columbia University Teachers College and was a long time supervisor with the NYC Board of Education. A student and collector of American Indian culture and artifacts she live
 GOLOMB-Mira I. Died June 11, 1998. The Golomb Cousins Club records with sorrow the first loss of a charter member. Beloved sister of Barry and Adeline Golomb and Sarai and Sam Zitter, she is also survived by many nieces, nephews, grandnieces and a grandnephew. Funeral services will be at Mt
 JONES-Lois Mailou. The Board and Staff of The Studio Museum in Harlem mourn the passing of the extraordinary painter, Lois Mailou Jones. Ms. Jones was a significant figure in American art in her own right and was a teacher and mentor to many other outstanding artists. We are privileged to h
 MAISEL-Joan (nee Epstein). Beloved wife and best friend of Howard. Devoted mother of Miriam, Jennifer, David and Lynn. Doting grandmother of Jessie. Dear sister of Herbert and Susan, Natalie and the late Sidney. So full of grace, so fair of face, she was our treasure and our life. She lit u
 MOWSHOWITZ-Libby (nee Polachek), of Jamaica, N.Y. Passed away June 11, 1998. Widow of the eminent Rabbi Israel Mowshowitz; daughter of Rabbi Solomon Polachek, renowned head of the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Rabbinical Academy of Yeshiva University (''the Meitchiter Illui''); sister to Dr. Harry P
 NADLER - Hannah Lustgarten. Age 88. Devoted wife of the late Murray Nadler. Hannah will be dearly missed by her daughters Anne Grosser and Henriet Cohen; grandchildren Derek, Allison, Jetha and Zachary; sons-in-law Marty Cohen and Bill Grosser; and by her family and many friends who cherish
 SILFEN-Mildred K. (Milli). On June 12, 1998, in her 74th year. Beloved wife of Daniel. Dear mother of Dr. Eric (Marilyn) and Michael (Lucy). Sister of the late Dr. Allen (Pauline). Sister-in-law of Selma. Grandmother of Lauren, Diana, Benjamin and Lydia. Longtime resident of Riverdale, NY. 
 STEVENS-Nancy (Mrs. John E.) The Society of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center mourns the passing of its beloved sixth president. A former journalist and radio personality, Nancy Stevens joined the organization in 1948 and served in several official capacities before being named Society 
 STRATTA-M. Cecile. In profound sorrow, the devoted sons of M. Cecile Stratta announce her passing on June 8, 1998. Over four decades, Cecile developed a successful and renowned foreign language translation and interpreting business, through which she enjoyed assignments and experiences whic
 WEISER-Hilda S. Age 80, beloved wife of Theodore T. Weiser, Boynton Beach, Florida, formerly of Lynbrook, NY and White Meadow Lake, NJ, devoted mother to Adele W. Klitzner and Hazel Weiser, adoring grandmother to Rebecca Suzanne Klitzner, Lauren Michelle Klitzner, and Lena Rose Glaser. Mrs.
 ROSENTHAL-Judy C. It is written in stone ''Beloved and devoted daughter. We miss her strength, wisdom, wit and compassion.'' Mom       
 GARTNER-Renate. On June 9 in Amberg, Germany. A truly beautiful human being who met the challenges of life with charm, style and a subtle wit. Her many friends in New York will cherish her memory. Bea, Jane, Sheila, Virginia, Roland, Godfrey, Helen and Jeanie       
 GREENLEIGH-Frances N. On June 14, 1998. Of Rockville, MD. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Greenleigh. Mother of Stephen and Judith Greenleigh and Esther Greenleigh Prince and grandmother of Joshua Prince, Andrea Jill Greenleigh and David Greenleigh. Graveside services held at Sharon Gardens
 MOWSHOWITZ-Libby. We deeply mourn Libby's passing, a sister-inlaw rare beyond compare. She possessed a brilliant mind and a caring heart often expressed with a fine sense of humor. Her life was totally devoted to her husband, the eminent Rabbi Israel Mowshowitz, to her family and to the com
 NECHAMKIN-Ruth Leah Steinman. November 18, 1929-June 14, 1998. Wife of 47 years, sister, good friend to all who knew her, the best mother in the world, and cherished grandmother. Psychoanalyst, social worker, teacher, student, volunteer. President of Beth Emeth Synagogue Women's Division, a
 SILFEN-Mildred. You were part of our lives for more than 50 years. We shared a wonderful, caring friendship that we shall never forget. To Dan, Eric, Michael, Marilyn, Lucy and her loving grandchildren, we grieve with you and share your deep sorrow. We shall treasure her memory as we treasu
 SPECTOR-Anne. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Louis Spector. Loving mother of Morris Spector and Joan Kimmel. Cherished grandmother of Phyllis, Peter, Louis and Loni. Services were held at ''Gutterman's'' Funeral Home, Sunday, June 14, 1998, in her native Brooklyn. Her golden voice and her lov
 STEVENS-Nancy (Mrs. John E.). The Boards of Overseers and Managers are deeply saddened by the death of Nancy Stevens. Mrs. Stevens, in her role as president of The Society of Memorial SloanKettering Cancer Center from 1955-1957, developed imaginative fund-raising programs and important init
 VERNADAKIS - Dorothy. Of Beechhurst, NY. Died June 13, 1998, at age 60. Loving wife of the late Dr. Emmanuel Vernadakis. Beloved mother of George and mother-in-law of Irene. Friends may call at Gleason's Funeral Home at 10-25 150th St, Whitestone, NY, Monday 2-5 and 7-10 PM. Funeral service
 GEORGE-Agnes M., beloved wife, mother, grandmother, and great-grandmother, left this world on June 12. She died at National Healthcare Center, Panama City, FL. Born 1905 in the Bronx, New York, she was a unique and very beautiful lady. She was preceded in death by her husband, William H. Ge
 KRAFT-Helen Margaret, nee Gwydir, at home after a long illness. She was a Wellesley graduate, Class of 1948, and a long time resident of Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island. She is survived by her husband, Warren G., daughters Helen K. Buckwalter, Anne K. Thompson and sons Warren G. and John S.
 McLOUGHLIN-Eleanor. On June 15, 1998. Beloved sister of Mary Elizabeth Farrell, Frances Reilly and the late Kevin and Justin McLoughlin & Jane O'Connor. She is survived by 19 nieces & nephews & 46 grand nieces & nephews. She taught at John Adams High School for forty years. She was a Ford F
 MOWSHOWITZ-Libby. Hillcrest Jewish Center Sisterhood sadly mourns the passing of our dearly beloved Rebbitzen Emerita and best friend. Libby devoted her entire life to deeds of loving kindness. Today we are bereft of our role model of 50 years, a true Aishes Chayil. Our deepest sympathy to 
 RUSSLER-Fanny (Feigl). Beloved aunt, great aunt, great grand aunt, died June 10, 1998 in the Bronx, age 101. Born Kitaigorod, Ukraine, 1897. Arrived in New York following 1919 pogrom. Lived in Palestine in the 1930's. Fluent in six languages; Hebrew educator in Manhattan, the Bronx and West
 SCHOEN-Leah Temma. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved mother of our esteemed Assistant to the Administrator, Ruth Lemberger, and extends heartfelt sympathy to all the members of the bereaved family. Rabbi Haskel Lookstein, Principal David N. Kahn, Chairman, Board of T
 STEVENS-Nancy Turner Ford, 92. Died June 10, 1998. She led an active, creative, philanthropic life. She held careers in radio, fashion & advertising. Formerly married to Howeth T. Ford and John E. Stevens. Survived by daughter Cornelia Coles and grandson Charles F. Coles, Jr. and many niece
 VOLCKER-Barbara. Of NYC on June 14th, 1998, after a prolonged illness. Beloved wife of Paul. Devoted mother of Janice Zima and James Volcker. Daughter of Edna Bahnson. Also survived by her brother William F. Bahnson and three grandchildren. Services private. Memorial contributions may be ma
 WEINFELD-Rose. On June 14, 1998. Beloved mother of Ed and Deanne, David and Monica. Cherished grandmother of Scott and Ilene, Steven and Tammy, Andy and Cynthia, Sharon, Valerie, Patti and Rich, Diana and Greg. Adored great grandmother of Danny, Jack and Ross Weinfeld. Loving sister of Bern
 WELTCHEK-Edith Z. Born March 18, 1933 in Boston, MA. Died June 14, 1998 at home in East Hampton, NY. Daughter of Minnie Zanditon and the late Sydney Zanditon. She died surrounded by her loved ones, her husband Paul, children Nancy Ferris, Ann Wolf and Peter Weltchek; grandchildren Daisy, He
 HAMBURGER-Ethel. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member Ethel Hamburger and extends its heartfelt sympathy to her family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Robert S. Puder, Secretary       
 LITTELL-Penelope. On June 13 Penelope Williams Littell, loving mother of Eliakim Littell, beloved wife of the late Blaine Littell, devoted stepmother of Philip Littell, Peter Littell and Anita Repp, adored mother-in-law to Catherine Deathe, died in Westerly, Rhode Island hospital. She is al
 McLOUGHLIN-Eleanor. On June 15, 1998. Beloved sister of Mary Elizabeth Farrell, Frances Reilly and the late Kevin and Justin McLoughlin & Jane O'Connor. She is survived by 19 nieces & nephews & 46 grand nieces & nephews. She taught at John Adams High School for forty years. She was a Ford F
 MOWSHOWITZ-Libby. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary mourn the passing of a deeply cherished friend, the beloved wife of the late Rabbi Dr. Israel Mowshowitz, an esteemed alumnus and inspired worker on behalf of his alma mater. She was the daught
 SILFEN-Mildred. The Conservative Synagogue Adath Israel Riverdale mourns the loss of our beloved and founding member, Milli. She enhanced every sphere of our Synagogue with her special gifts of Hiddur Mitzvah. CSAIR       
 SILVER-Amy Frank. Died peacefully on June 12, 1998 in her 95th year. She was the loving and beloved wife of the late Louis H. Silver, devoted mother of Loretta Silver Lifton and Carol Silver Greif. She was the adored grandmother of Betsy Hooper, Karen Healy, Deborah, Diane and Linda Greif a
 VELLA-Doris W. On June 16, 1998 of Rockville Centre, New York. The first woman from the Village of Rockville Centre, New York to volunteer for the U.S. Army. During World War II she attained the rank of corporal. Beloved wife of Armand J. Vella. Dear mother of Andrea V. Brennan (John), Jame
 WALERSTEIN-Miriam. June 15, 1998. Miriam was a valiant and remarkable woman who was devoted to her family, her late husband Harold, children Ronald and Jordan, grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. Donations in her memory may be made to The Jeffrey David Walerstein Foundation.       
 WELTCHEK-Edith Z. Born March 18, 1933 in Boston, MA. Died June 14, 1998 at home in East Hampton, NY. Daughter of Minnie Zanditon and the late Sydney Zanditon. She died surrounded by her loved ones, her husband Paul, children Nancy Ferris, Ann Wolf and Peter Weltchek; grandchildren Daisy, He
 ZELWEROWICZ - ORCHON - Helena. Born December 10, 1903 in Poland. Died at home in Brooklyn Heights on June 1, 1998. Actress, director, poet and activist, she fought in the underground during World War II and was honored for saving Jews by Yad Vashem in Israel.       
 BAKER-Natalie Bachrach. On May 16, 1998 of cancer in Portchester, NY. Natalie was a gifted artist and pioneering art teacher. Cherished and devoted wife of the late Samm Sinclair Baker, both long-time residents of Larchmont then of Mamaroneck, NY, beloved mother of Wendy Cammer, of Larchmon
 BONCHEK-Rona. On June 17, 1998, in Jerusalem, devoted and loving daughter of Ida and the late Israel Grossman, devoted and loving mother of Elana and Jonathan Friedlander, Linda and Michael Kaufman, Shelley and Arthur Hershowitz, and grandmother of thirteen grandchildren, all living in Isra
 CARDINALI-Mary T. (nee Russo). On June 16, 1998. Wife of the late Louis. Cherished mother of Barbara. Loving mother-in-law and confidante of Morton Toffler. Dear step-grandmother of Elise and Hilton. Beloved sister of Josephine Swanson, fond aunt of Edwin and Roger Swanson, and Rudolph and 
 JEFFER-Eleanor. Adored wife of Medwin. Beloved and cherished mother of Peter and Haya, and Susan and Dr. Mattis Fern. Loving grandmother of Dr. Steven and Alexandra Fern, Dr. Jaqueline Fern and her husband Dr. Michael Winston Scott Jeffer and Allison Jeffer. Loving great grandmother to Benj
 LINNEHAN-Claire G. On June 15, 1998. Loving wife of John J. Linnehan, devoted mother of Seana Linnehan Wood and her husband Roger H. Wood of New York, NY, an attorney Courtney C. Linnehan of Boston, MA. Visiting hours at the C. Frank Linnehan & Son Funeral Home, 129 Kenoza Ave., Haverhill, 
 MURPHY-Catherine Olive Laurel (Cowen), 79, of Truro, MA., in Hyannis, MA., on Thursday, June 11th, 1998. Wife of the late Adrian M. Murphy. Mother of Serre A. Murphy of Rockledge, Florida. Step-mother of Lydia Savage of Near Pineswick, Gloucester, England. Aunt of Robert Stephens of Tyngsbo
 Emily Whaley, a South Carolina woman with a green thumb and such an eye for color that she helped show flowering Charleston there was bloom beyond azaleas and camellias and turned her backyard into one of the nation's most acclaimed private gardens, died on Monday at her summer home in Flat
 BAKER-Natalie Bachrach. On May 16, 1998 of cancer in Portchester, NY. Natalie was a gifted artist and pioneering art teacher. Cherished and devoted wife of the late Samm Sinclair Baker, both long-time residents of Larchmont then of Mamaroneck, NY, beloved mother of Wendy Cammer, of Larchmon
 GREEN-Esther W. In her 93rd year. A life lived for others. Beloved wife of the late Michel. Devoted mother of Frederick Green & Madelyn Bergman and motherin-law of Steven Bergman. Loving grandmother & great-grandmother. Graveside services on Friday, at 10:45 A.M., at the Mount Ararat Cemete
 LINNEHAN-Claire G. On June 15, 1998. Loving wife of John J. Linnehan, devoted mother of Seana Linnehan Wood and her husband Roger H. Wood of New York, NY, an attorney Courtney C. Linnehan of Boston, MA. Visiting hours at the C. Frank Linnehan & Son Funeral Home, 129 Kenoza Ave., Haverhill, 
 MARSMAN-Jane. On June 15, 1998, at Weston, FL. Beloved wife of Peter. Devoted mother of Lara and Katja. Cherished daughter of William Taubin and the late Doris Taubin. Dear aunt of Wendy Taubin. Jane will be deeply missed by her family and many friends for her wit, generosity and loving nat
 SEERY-Shirley Inlow. On June 8, 1998, Mount Kisco, New York. Beloved wife of Adrian. Mother of Karen Ingrisani. Mother-in-law of Michael Ingrisani. Grandmother of Emma Ingrisani. Sister of Robert Inlow. How bright and beautiful she made our world.       
 STEINDECKER-Erna. Beloved wife of the late Charles, devoted and adored mother of Liliane, John and Rebecca, Oliver and Elaine, respected grand mother of Anne and Karen, James, Jeremy and Michelle, Jessica and Alisha, loved great grandmother, cherished sister of Els Bendheim and Herman Salom
 HOFFMAN-Lillian on June 18, 1998. Wife of the late Irving, devoted mother to Lori, Rick, and Janice, grandmother of Alana and Kylie, sister of Seymour Schlaefer, and devoted friend to many. After a full and productive life, her counsel, compassion and love will be sorely missed. Services Su
 ROTTER-Sandra. Our partners and entire staff at Herzfeld & Rubin, P.C. join Sandy's husband Irv and her children Abby and Melissa, her parents and the other members of her family and friends in mourning the untimely death of this gifted and courageous lawyer and colleague. Her faith, warmth
 STEINDECKER-Erna. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Els Bendheim and the Steindecker family on the loss of their beloved Erna. To anyone who had the good fortune of knowing her, she was a source of happiness and joy. Mrs. Steindecker was a righteous woman who personified the qualities 
 WILLENS-Roslyn (Breitman). Widow of the late Jules, died June 17 1998. Bronx born and co-founder co-operator of Manhattan's popular Caffe Cielo. She was among the first woman salespersons in the highly competitive garment industry. Your pals and patrons adore you Roz-and ever will. Funeral 
 AMATO-Lorraine (nee Manville). Passed away on June 12, 1998 after a long illness, in Nova Scotia, Canada. Her memory will be cherished forever by her loving husband of 39 years, Carlo, and her devoted son, Thomas. Interment private.       
 BAKER-Natalie Bachrach. On May 16, 1998 of cancer in Portchester, NY. Natalie was a gifted artist and pioneering art teacher. Cherished and devoted wife of the late Samm Sinclair Baker, both long-time residents of Larchmont then of Mamaroneck, NY, beloved mother of Wendy Cammer, of Larchmon
 BARTH-Louise. On June 15, 1998. Beloved wife of Edward, loving mother of Barry, Steven and mother-in-law of Dale. Cherished grandmother to Justin, Krista, Lindsey and Jared. Services were held on Tuesday, June 16th. Contributions in her memory may be made to Cancer Care.       
 DONNOLO - Domenica. ''Dimi'' (nee Leuzzi). Dimi was born on June 9, 1919 and died June 20, 1998 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Vincent. She is survived by her sister Immaculate Mandragona, four daughters: Suzanne, Christine, Claire and Felicia Shuff
 GOLDMAN - Rochelle Valerie, ''Sheli,'' of Fresh Meadows, NY, on June 13, 1998, age 55. Beloved and devoted wife of Ira L. Goldman, cherished daughter of Beatrice Sheiken, loving mother of Ellen Lipkind, Howard and Richard Goldman, dear grandmother of Sarah and Ethan Lipkind. Sister of Arthe
 HEYMAN-Augusta Brown. On June 18, 1998. Devoted and beloved wife of the late Edward Heyman. Beloved cousin and friend to Bobrick, Gerstley, Israel, Swillinger and Waldman families. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St., Monday, 11 AM. HEYMAN-Augusta. Central S
 KRAMER-Bertha. Widow of Alec and mother of Audrey Kallman and Edna Cohen. Died peacefully on Monday, June 15th, 1998, in London, England. Our sincerest condolences to her family. Judith & Irwin Kallman       
 NOLAN-Audrey Kinney. Of Englewood, New Jersey. On June 4, 1998. She is survived by her sister, Joan Kinney Belin of Waverly, PA., her son Thomas J. Nolan, III of Kingston, N.H. and her daughter K. Marcy Nolan of Ft. Lauderdale, FL. She was pre-deceased by her sons, John & Brooks. A memorial
 ROTTER-Sandra. Lincoln Square Synagogue mourns the untimely passing of our devoted member, Sandy Rotter, beloved wife of our devoted member and Governor, Irv Rotter, beloved mother of Devorah and Abby. Sandy lived her life with a quiet grace and nobility that should serve as an example for 
 SAMUELS-Dorothy. Age 86. Wife of Jerome; loving mother of Richard, Jesse, Beth, Janet, Susan, Cary; beloved grandmother of Debra, David, Sarah, Nancy, Matthew,Glenn and Emily. Donations may be made to the Hebrew Home & Hospital, West Hartford, CT. The family will be observing shiva until We
 SCHLEISNER-Karla Mirjam. Beloved aunt of Mark Schleisner and Susan Hurwitz, cherished greataunt of Philip and Rachel Hurwitz, beloved first cousin of Ze'ev Schleisner and Nana Wilinsky. Born November 4, 1924 in Hanover, Germany, died June 4, 1998 in Englewood, New Jersey, after a valiant 12
 SCHWARZKOPF-Francine. Dr. Francine Schwarzkopf, chemist, 83, of esophageal cancer, at home, peacefully on Friday, June 19, surrounded by those she loved. Born in 1915 in Vienna, she spent most of her youth in Antwerp, Belgium, until her family fled to America in 1940. She and her husband, t
 SILFEN-Mildred. The Board of Trustees and the entire Ethical Culture Fieldston School community note with sadness the death of Mildred Silfen, former Fieldston Lower faculty member who taught from 1961 until her retirement from the School in 1986. Loyal colleague and dear friend, Milli's ge
 STEINDECKER-Erna. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary are saddened by the passing of a longtime cherished friend, an aristocratic and deeply respected member of the entire Jewish community, beloved wife of the late Charles; mother of John (and Reb
 WILLENS-Roslyn (Breitman). Widow of the late Jules, died June 17 1998. Bronx born and co-founder co-operator of Manhattan's popular Caffe Cielo. She was among the first woman salespersons in the highly competitive garment industry. Your pals and patrons adore you Roz-and ever will. Funeral 
 ZELNICK-Rose, 97. Died peacefully in her sleep. Beloved wife of the late Sol, loving mother of Abby and Marilyn Zelnick and Renee & Nelson Salzman. Grandmother of Fern and Lloyd Wagner, Joan and Michael Grant and Lori Kleppe. Great grandmother of Jonathan and Danielle Wagner, Drew and Evan 
 Theresa Merritt, whose half-century career on television, in movies, on Broadway and in concert halls stretched from the original production of ''Carmen Jones'' to a recent episode of ''N.Y.P.D. Blue,'' died on June 12 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 75 and lived in the Hollis sec
 Ginette Mathiot, who taught French cooking to the French with such succinct authority that her basic book of recipes sold more than five  million copies, died on June 14 at a retirement home in Paris. She was 91 and best known for her 1932 classic, ''I Know How to Cook.'' In a count
 DONNOLO - Domenica. ''Dimi'' (nee Leuzzi). Dimi was born on June 9, 1919 and died June 20, 1998 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Vincent. She is survived by her sister Immaculate Mandragona, four daughters: Suzanne, Christine, Claire and Felicia Shuff
 MAGNANI-Lillian. Died June 19, 1998 in Sidney, NY. She was born in NYC to Silvio and Delibra Bochetti. She is survived by Peter and Dorothy Magnani and Rita and Morgan Magnani Daly. Contributions made to Lighthouse Inc., Low Vision Clinic, 111 E. 59 St., NY NY 10022. For more information, c
 MURRAY-Annette de Marmon. Age 91. Died June 20, as a result of a stroke. Beloved wife of the late John Gwennap Murray. Mother of John deM. Murray of Sao Paulo, Brazil, and Robert Andre Murray of Princeton, NJ, and Westhampton, NY. Grandmother of Kelly Kole, Amanda Murray, Kimberly Murray, M
 NOLAN-Audrey Kinney. Of Englewood, New Jersey. On June 4, 1998. She is survived by her sister, Joan Kinney Belin of Waverly, PA., her son Thomas J. Nolan, III of Kingston, N.H. and her daughter K. Marcy Nolan of Ft. Lauderdale, FL. She was pre-deceased by her sons, John & Brooks. A memorial
 SCHLEICHER-Ruth. We deeply mourn the loss of our mother-inlaw, grandmother, and greatgrandmother who passed away on June 5, 1998, in her 93rd year. Bert & Bertha Bodenheimer Andrew, Sharon & Elyse Bodenheimer Avi, Brenda (nee Bodenheimer), Michael & Eitan Zlatin Seth & Carol (nee Bodenheime
 SCHWARZKOPF-Francine. Dr. Francine Schwarzkopf, chemist, 83, of esophageal cancer, at home, peacefully on Friday, June 19, surrounded by those she loved. Born in 1915 in Vienna, she spent most of her youth in Antwerp, Belgium, until her family fled to America in 1940. She and her husband, t
 STEINDECKER - Erna. Adored matriarch of the Steindecker family, sister to the late Robert and Theo E. Salomon, Els Bendheim, and Professor Herman P. Salomon. STEINDECKER-Erna. RE'UTH notes with sadness the passing of Erna Steindecker, longtime member and supporter. We extend our con
 TRENK-Phyllis L. Of Livingston, NJ. On Sunday, June 21, 1998. Beloved wife of Alvin S. Devoted mother of Abigail, Jeffrey and Steven. Loving daughter of Dorothy and the late Abraham Lew. Dear sister of Stuart. Adoring grandmother of Samantha, Adam and Elizabeth. Funeral service Tuesday, Jun
 Gloria F. Ross, a widely known tapestry maker who brought painters and weavers together to create contemporary wall hangings, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, her son Clifford A. Ross said. Tra
 BOOKMAN-Gloria Frankenthaler Ross, wife of the late Dr. John J. Bookman. Survived by children, Clifford and Betsy Ross, Beverly Ross, Alfred and Jane Ross, Ann and Eric Buehrens, Richard and Milica Bookman; grandchildren, Adrian and Caroline Ross, Karla and Aleksandra Bookman, Nicholas and 
 FITZSIMMONS-Bonnie L. Suddenly on June 20th. A cultured and caring woman who was a long time employee of The New York State Court System and a tireless volunteer on behalf of NYC's animal strays. Her bright and generous spirit will be deeply missed by her family, colleagues, fellow voluntee
 KERN-Gladys. A woman of valor who handled life's ebb and flow with dignity and grace. She enriched the lives of everyone who knew her. Rest in peace, dear friend. Norma and Burton Bernard       
 LIPMAN-Jean. The Board of Trustees and professional staff of the Museum of American Folk Art record with profound sorrow the death of their esteemed friend and colleague, Jean Lipman, who served with distinction as a Trustee of the Museum during its formative years and provided wise and dis
 MARELLI-Maria Narobe, 93, of Lawrence, Kansas, died on Saturday, June 20, 1998 at the home of her caregiver in Lecompton, Kansas. She had lived in Lawrence since 1980 after moving from New York City. Ms. Marelli was born on May 5, 1905 in Trieste, Italy. She attended the King and Emperor Fr
 MARMON-Betty. (nee Lewis) Of East Hampton, NY, on June 22, 1998. Beloved wife of Bradley S. Marmon. Devoted mother of Stephen J. Marmon of Bethesda, Md; Nan Sabel of Waltham, Mass.; and Elise Raymond of East Hampton. Adored grandmother of Matthew and Zachary Sabel; Elizabeth Marmon and Anna
 SNYDER-Beatrice. On June 21, 1998. Age 74. Co-founder with her husband Harold Snyder of Biocraft Laboratories, Inc. She was a pioneer in the generic drug industry, an accomplished businesswoman and a noted philanthropist. Beloved wife of Harold, her husband of nearly 50 years. Loving mother
 TRENK-Phyllis Lew. Our deepest sympathies are with the Trenk and Lew families as we mourn the passing of Phyllis Lew Trenk. We will always remember her beauty, sweetness and courage. The Cuomo and Cole Families TRENK-Phyllis. Our thoughts and love are with you during this time of lo
 ZORN-Iris Segal. Beloved wife of Joseph Zorn of New York. Devoted mother of David E. Gallin of New York. Adored mother of Ruth Iris Spielman, mother-in-law of Dr. Scott R. Spielman and proud grandmother of ''Jed'' Spielman, all of Chestnut Hill, Phila, PA. Married formerly to Edward C. Good
 Jean Herzberg Lipman, an arts patron, collector, author of 26 art books and longtime editor of Art in America magazine, died on Saturday at her home in Carefree, Ariz. She was 88. Mrs. Lipman was a pioneering collector and proponent of American folk art who conceived and organized t
 Maureen O'Sullivan, a leading Hollywood actress in the 1930's and early 40's best known for playing Jane to Johnny Weissmuller's Tarzan in the series of popular jungle adventure movies, died yesterday at the Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. She was 87. Ms. O'Sullivan, who w
 BOOKMAN-Gloria Frankenthaler Ross. The board and staff of the National Museum of the American Indian, Smithsonian Institution, note with sadness the passing of tapestry designer Gloria F. Ross Bookman. Her dedicated work and enthusiastic support of Navajo people will be remembered always.  
 FRIEDMAN-Ruth. On June 23, 1998. Beloved mother of Linda Rice. Cherished aunt, great aunt and friend to many. We will all miss her. Services Wednesday, 9:45AM, at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 KENNEDY-Catherine. Age 51, died on June 23, 1998 after a long illness caused by pancreatic cancer. She was born in Wallsend, Northumberland, England on February 12, 1947. Daughter of the late James & Mary Cunningham Urwin. Educated at the University of East Anglia, she received both a B.A. 
 MARMON-Betty. (nee Lewis) Of East Hampton, NY, on June 22, 1998. Beloved wife of Bradley S. Marmon. Devoted mother of Stephen J. Marmon of Bethesda, Md; Nan Sabel of Waltham, Mass.; and Elise Raymond of East Hampton. Adored grandmother of Matthew and Zachary Sabel; Elizabeth Marmon and Anna
 MINSKY - Ruth. The Village Temple mourns the passing of one of our long-time members, Mrs. Ruth Minsky, 95 years old. With her husband, Morton, a Founding Member of the Temple, and one of the famous Minsky Brothers, Ruth was an active and beloved congregant. She will be remembered for her v
 PEISTER-Ellyn Tauber. On Sunday, May 24, 1998. Died peacefully in the Caribbean. Former resident of New York City and Easthampton. Her friends will miss her. Contributions may be made to The Jazz Musician's Emergency Fund, 1200 Broadway, N.Y., N.Y. 10001.       
 PRATT-Marion Pendleton. On June 22, 1998 in Stamford, CT. We deeply mourn the loss of our mother, mother-in-law and grandmother. We will miss her wisdom, love and humor. James H. and Louise V. North Susan P. Bradley (nee Pratt) Hollister, Benjamin and Christopher North Kaolin Davis       
 RUSSELL-Holly G. It is with great sorrow that the Partners of Gordon Altman Butowsky Weitzen Shalov and Wein and their employees mourn the passing of Holly Russell, their friend and colleague. It was a privilege to have known Holly who began her career with the Firm in 1989. She will be mis
 SCHEUER-Grete nee Rossman. Beloved wife of the late George Scheuer. Dear sister of Erna Rossman. Passed away June 23, 1998 in Palm Beach, FL. She will be deeply missed by her family and her devoted friends. Graveside service Friday 11 A.M. at Bethel, N.J.       
 ZORN-Iris. Kind and caring, graced with a quiet dignity and a true and wonderful friend to all whose lives she touched. We will miss our cherished Iris forever. Sincerest condolences to Joe, Ruth, David and Jed. Trudy and Newton       
 Louise M. Davies, the San Francisco benefactor who gave the city she loved a $5 million concert hall in 1980, died on Monday at a retirement home in Portola Valley, Calif. She was 98. Mrs. Davies, whose husband, Ralph K. Davies, an oil millionaire, died in 1971, bestowed millions of
 AMARI-Marina, 43. After a long and brave battle with cancer. A graduate of Columbia Univ., she was founder and President of Arethusa, Inc, a cultural organization in NYC. Arethusa sponsored Pirandello's play ''The Pleasure of Honesty'' at Clark Theatre, Lincoln Ctr. and Comedia Dell'Arte. L
 AYRES-Eda Maria, 71. Following a long illness. Beloved wife of Morgan Willcox Ayres. Loving mother of Peter Morgan Ayres, Christopher John Ayres, Leslie Ayres Seiden, Timothy Michael Ayres, John Morgan Ayres, Jacqueline Ayres Powers and David Jonathan Ayres and grandmother of 4. Visiting 3-
 DENERSTEIN - Loretta. Most cherished and adored mother of June Silver, Susan and Harris Amster and Loretta Friedman. Adored by her grandchildren, James Silver, Louis and Stephanie Bell, Mark Bell, Eric and Lori Friedman, Kent & Ilene Friedman, Jason and Johanna Friedman, Ian Friedman, Ellio
 KAUFMAN-Lottie. On June 20, 1998. Loving mother of Arthur and Norman. Sister of Florence and Lil. May her memory be blessed.       
 PFEFFER-Maxine S. It is with great sorrow that the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York and its employees mourn the passing of Maxine S. Pfeffer, our friend and colleague, of cancer on June 23, 1998. Ms. Pfeffer was 37. We will miss Maxine, an Assistant Unit
 SNYDER-Bea. With great sadness the Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Bea Snyder, a dear friend & sweet person. She was a great supporter of our programs for children, including the Meet-the-Artist School Series and Reel to Real. We extend o
 SNYDER-Beatrice. The Jewish Theological Seminary family records with sorrow the death of Beatrice Snyder, a staunch supporter of JTS for many years. The generous contributions she and her husband, Harold, made to Jewish education and JTS will live on through the students whose Jewish educat
 THOMPSON-Mrs. John A. (nee Joan Hallinan). On June 23, 1998. Of New York City, NY. Former Executive Secretary for twentyfive years for Arnold H. Vollmer. Wife of the late John A. Survived by her daughter Judith Thompson, granddaughter Liz Thompson. Sister of Mr. & Mrs. Robert McElroy and th
 WOLLENBERG-Davina J. Age 58, a life long resident of New York City died on Wednesday, June 24, 1998 in New Hampshire where she has lived for the past year or so. Born in NY on March 29, 1940 Davina was a talent agent in NYC for many years with Shuler Talent Agency and later opened her own c
 Maxine S. Pfeffer, an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan whose prosecutions ranged from drug dealing to international art theft, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a long battle with cancer. She was 37. Ms. Pfeffer's achievements included her 
 ALLEN-Joanne E. On June 24, 1998, following a stroke, passed away in Miami Beach, FL, age 68. Joanne, wife of Skip Allen, was born in New London, CT. on July 18, 1929. She graduated from high school in Mamaroneck, N.Y., and Georgetown Visitation College in Washington, D.C. In 1967, Joanne a
 CONATY-Marguerite J. The President, Board of Trustees and entire Montefiore Medical Center community are deeply saddened by the death of Marguerite J. Conaty, loving mother of our respected colleague, Robert B. Conaty, executive vice president of operations. She will be long remembered as a
 DENERSTEIN - Loretta. Most cherished and adored mother of June Silver, Susan and Harris Amster and Loretta Friedman. Adored by her grandchildren, James Silver, Louis and Stephanie Bell, Mark Bell, Eric and Lori Friedman, Kent & Ilene Friedman, Jason and Johanna Friedman, Ian Friedman, Ellio
 LIPMAN-Jean H. The employees and principals of Neuberger & Berman, LLC mourn the passing of Jean H. Lipman, wife of the late Howard Lipman, a former managing partner of Neuberger & Berman. Her commitment to the arts as a patron, collector and author will leave an everlasting mark. We extend
 ROMM-Mina Burenstein. Died on June 5th at the age of 98. Wife of the late Leonard Romm, mother of the late Robert E. Romm, survived by her daughter, Cindy Romm Weeks of Westport, Connecticut, sister Joan Wetherhead, daughter-in-law Sydell Romm and granddaughters Debra Cohen and Donna Somers
 SILBERSTEIN-Judy Sklar. On June 25, 1998, at 48 years of age. Beloved wife of Stanley. Devoted mother of Maren. Cherished daughter of Miriam and the late Albert Sklar. Adored sister of Suzy Simons and Howard and Jane Sklar. Devoted aunt of Justin and Jonathan Simons & Jacob & Alan Sklar. A 
 TOMPKINS-Elsie (nee Cohen), 90, of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of White Plains, NY and Scottsdale, AZ. Beloved wife of Max (Mac G. Tompkins) for 67 years. Loving mother of Judge Harold Tompkins. Mother-in-law of Frances and cherished grandmother of Laurence Alan Fish Tompkins. An avid golfer
 BARAF-Beatrice F. Of Palm Beach, Florida. Died June 25, 1998. Wife of the late Samuel L. Baraf and the late Arthur Block. Born Brooklyn, N.Y. September 14, 1910. Beloved mother of Libby Lovett (Nelson), Charles Baraf (Jeri), Joseph Baraf, Donald Baraf (Marlena), Robert Baraf (Leslie) and He
 MARTINEZ-Maureen S. After a brave battle with cancer she will be remembered and missed by all. Her life was truly an inspiration for both her family and friends. The Meyerson Family       
 PFEFFER-Maxine S. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the passing of Maxine S. Pfeffer. Maxine was a former associate and beloved friend who will long be remembered for her many contributions and accomplishmen
 Mary Brecht, who designed costumes for Joseph Chaikin, Charles Ludlam, Robert Wilson, Richard Foreman and other prominent directors and writers in the experimental theater, died on June 3 at her summer home in Greenport, N.Y. She was 65 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, 
 BRAUMAN-Lillian (nee Heyman). Passed away June 24 at her home in Anchorage, Alaska. She was born in Jersey City, New Jersey, February 14, 1911 and lived most of her life in the New Jersey, New York metropolitan area. She is the beloved mother of Patricia B. Wolf, mother-in-law of Aron S. Wo
 KESSLER-Stephanie. Cherished mother of Bethmara and Marni. Devoted wife of Arnold. Loving daughter of Eleanor and Alvin Greif. Adored sister of Royanne and Eugene Weiss. She is also survived by a nephew and niece, Gordon and Erica Weiss, and a grandniece, Emma. During her 23 years of dedica
 KRUGER-Elizabeth (Betty) Gile. May 26. Age 97. Born July 1, 1901 in Minneapolis, 3rd child of Sam & Mabel Gile. Graduated Cum Laude from University of Minnesota (MA in English). In 1929, moved to NYC where she began her legendary career in publishing, joining McGraw-Hill as their first, and
 LANDAU-Cheryl. All of us at AFCO are deeply saddened by the untimely death of our dear friend and co-worker, Cheryl. We will miss her terribly. She will always remain in our hearts and thoughts. Our condolences to Josh, Jessica and the entire family. Love, Alan, Andrea and Kiki       
 LYNN-Tamar. The Emergency Department of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Tamar Lynn. The cherished wife of our revered colleague and Director of the St. Luke's Hospital Emergency Department, Stephan Lynn, MD, and a beloved mother to her children Rachel and Sarah, T
 ROSENBERRY-Cicely K. On Friday, June 26 at Norwell Knoll Nursing Home, Norwell, MA. Adored wife of the late Samuel L. Rosenberry, a former senior partner of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley and McCloy; beloved mother and true friend of Nancy R. Hoit and son-in-law Roger O. Hoit; and devoted grandmoth
 Catherine Kennedy, who after a  long struggle established one of the nation's first nursing centers for AIDS patients, died on Tuesday at her home in New Haven. She was 51. The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, family members said. Not long after moving to New Haven with
 KIRSCHENBAUM-Stanley. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue mourns the death of the brother of our esteemed Trustee, Ruth Saperstein, and extends to her and the bereaved family our heartfelt condolences.       
 LAITIN-Frances. Born January 13, 1910; died June 27, 1998. Teacher of French and college advisor, Midwood High School, retired in 1974. She is survived by husband Daniel; three children Jonathan, Penelope and David; and four grandchildren Elissa, Arlo, Marc and Anna.       
 MINSKY-Ruth G. Adored wife of the late Morton. Beloved aunt of Rae and Babi. A lovely and cultured woman of great intellect, sensitivity, compassion, beauty and elegance. Beloved by all who had the privilege of knowing her. Family and Friends       
 ROSENBAUM-Adele. On June 26, 1998, at age 86. Devoted to and cherished by her beloved family. Will be forever missed.       
 SHANLEY-Rita McLoughlin. Of Oceanport, NJ. Died on June 26, 1998. Born in New York on September 2, 1918. Beloved wife of Richard N. Shanley. Loving mother of Richard N. Shanley, Jr. and Frank E. Shanley. Sister of Donald McGoughlin. Dear grandmother of Maria, Catherine and John. She lived a
 STERNBERG-Dorothy. Died early Sunday morning, June 28, 1998. Wife of William. Sister of Muriel Steiber. Beloved aunt of many nieces and nephews and the grandmother of three. She is a graduate of Rutgers University and was employed by the US Federal Government for many years. She was a write
 WEILL-Hazel Cohen. Age 92, died June 17, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Robert David. Loving mother and mother-in-law of Barbara Weill and Michael Greenberg. Adored Bummy of Joanne and Buffy Weill-Greenberg. Hunter College Class of 1927. We love and miss her. Contributions can be made to gr
 Beatrice Snyder, a co-founder and former executive of Biocraft Laboratories, a maker of generic pharmaceuticals, died June 21 at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 74 and lived in Cliffside Park, N.J. The cause of death was complications from emphysema, said Harold Snyder, her husband.   
 BARAF-Beatrice F. Of Palm Beach, Florida. Died June 25, 1998. Wife of the late Samuel L. Baraf and the late Arthur Block. Born Brooklyn, N.Y. September 14, 1910. Beloved mother of Libby Lovett (Nelson), Charles Baraf (Jeri), Joseph Baraf, Donald Baraf (Marlena), Robert Baraf (Leslie) and He
 BLINICK-Margery Alice (Linda). Died June 19, 1998 in Princeton, N.J. Born on September 19, 1909, Curwensville, PA. She lived most of her life in New York City and worked as a nurse at Beth Israel Medical Center. Devoted wife of the late George Blinick, M.D. Beloved mother of Robert and Jose
 COWEN-Betty Cantor. Loving wife of the late Robert Cowen. Beloved mother of Peter (Nancy Hammerman) Cowen and Nancy (David Paris) Cowen. Cherished grandmother of four. Also survived by her brother Lenny Cantor. In lieu of flowers contributions may be made to the Wellness Community of West L
 JACKSON-Lynn. On Saturday, June 27, of Brooklyn, NY. Family and friends are deeply saddened by the loss of Lynn Jackson. Devoted to and cherished by her beloved family, Ms. Jackson is survived by her parents Gilbert and Barbara Jackson, her brother Brian Jackson and nephews Messiah and Isia
 ROSENBERRY-Cecily. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York deeply mourn the loss of Cecily Rosenberry, a life-long volunteer and Director for more than 50 years. She began her association with the agency in 1944 and was a great champion of public health an
