 ARPS-Ruth. The partners, associates and support staff of the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Affiliates mourn the loss of our beloved friend, Ruth Arps. Mrs. Arps, the widow of one of the firm's founding partners, Leslie H. Arps, will be fondly remembered for her ca
 ENDICOTT-Yvonne Janet (Blossom). Beloved wife of John Edward Endicott for over thirty years, passed away peacefully and without pain with family and holding hands with her husband at UCLA Medical Center, Saturday morning, July 27, 2002. Yvonne was born in Gawler, South Australia. Yvonne is 
 FUCHS-Muriel. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to her children Marsha, Steven and the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Emeritus Steven Chill, President Debor
 GREENFIELD - Betty. Of Hollywood, FL. Beloved wife of the late Murray, devoted mother of Harvey, cherished grandmother of Steven, Stacey, Richard, Lisa, Eddie, Jessica and Alexa, great grandmother of Jake, Casey, Emily, Lorey and Anna. Devoted friend to her care-giver Catherine. She was a t
 KAMNITZ-Gail. On July 31, 2002. Loving daughter of Helen & Allan. Dear sister of Pam. She will be profoundly missed. Service on Friday 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 KAPETANAKIS - Betty. On July 29, 2002. Devoted daughter to Constantina and the late Captain, loving sister to sisters Nathalia and Georgia Bougadis and brother Dino and aunt to Nicholas Kapetanakis, Sandra and Nicholas Bougadis, beloved Executive Director of the North Star Fund. Viewing at 
 SNEDDON - Kristine. We grieve with our co-founder, David Sneddon, on the loss of his beloved wife Kristine. Her strength and dignity were an inspiration to us. We hope David and their children will find comfort in each other and in their memories of Kristine. On behalf of the entire Fairway
 Dolores Olmedo Patiño, the combative Mexican art collector who turned her hacienda into a museum devoted to paintings by Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo, died in Mexico City on Saturday. Her age was a matter of debate, but she used a birth date that would make her 88. Mrs. Olmedo amas
 BERKLEY-Sandra DeJur. Of New York City, passed away on August 1, 2002. Devoted daughter of the late Frances and Ralph DeJur. Beloved and cherished wife of Allen Berkley. Loving mother of John, Elizabeth and son-inlaw Stephen. Proud grandmother of Alexander. Dear sister of Jacqueline and her
 CASSON-Ann Bard. Died on July 25th at the age of 74. She lived and worked for 25 years in Richmond, VA, as a social worker and licensing specialist with the State Dept. of Social Service. Ann grew up in Croton-On-Hudson, matriculated at Smith College and received her M.S.W. at Bryn Mawr. Sh
 COULTER-Janis. Died July 31, 2002 in a heinous terrorist attack on the Mount Scopus campus of The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. American Friends of The Hebrew University and the Office of Academic Affairs for the Rothberg International School mourn the profound loss of Janis Coulter, a fr
 KAMNITZ-Gail. We mourn our dear friend, who died suddenly on July 31, just shy of her 40th birthday. Always present, she will be remembered for her generosity of spirit and brilliance of mind. She lives forever in our hearts. Accomplished attorney, consummate professional, true friend, lovi
 KAPETANAKIS-Betty. With deep sorrow, we share news of the loss of our dear friend & colleague. Betty dedicated her life's work to the cause of social and economic justice. She worked tirelessly and selflessly to support the work of community activists and to help stengthen grass roots organ
 KLUR-Sandra. The entire community of Dunewood on Fire Island mourns the loss of our friend and neighbor, Sandy. We send our deepest condolences to her husband Larry and her entire family. Dunewood Property Owners Association       
 PARODNECK-Pauline (nee Budinoff). Of West Palm Beach. Beloved wife of the late Meyer Parodneck. Cherished aunt of Alan and Lydia Budinoff, Donald Budinoff, Barbara and Bob Festa. Devoted mother-in-law of Jere Stern and grandmother of Emily Stern. Died Wednesday morning July 31, 2002 in a lo
 PEK-Jessie. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 THALER - Beatrice. Born September 11, 1920. Beloved wife of the late Harry, Dearly loved mother of Ted, Paul, Linda, and the late Jerry. Adored grandmother of Howard, Melissa, Jessica, Audra and Alexandra. Great-grandmother of Hank. Always a smile on her face and a joke in her heart. Foreve
 VOLLMERHAUSEN - Claire (nee Murphy) of Summit, NJ, on July 31, 2002, wife of the late Dr. Joseph W. Vollmerhausen, mother of Denise R. Ruotolo of Plainfield, NJ, the late Andrew K. Ruotolo of Westfield, NJ., and former Union County prosecutor, Cynthia Sherwin of Connecticut, Diane R. Webber
 KLINGER-Beulah. Age 81, of Hollis Hills, Queens. Esteemed Music Teacher at the High School of Music and Art in New York City. Predeceased by her beloved husband Emanuel. Survived by her daughters Beth Agin, Arlene Romoff and Carole Rothman. Sister of Maureen Lerner & William Rabinowitz. Gra
 BERKLEY-Sandra DeJur. Of New York City, passed away on August 1, 2002. Devoted daughter of the late Frances and Ralph DeJur. Beloved and cherished wife of Allen Berkley. Loving mother of John, Elizabeth and son-inlaw Stephen. Proud grandmother of Alexander. Dear sister of Jacqueline and her
 DIAMOND-Barbara G. Survived by her life partner and soulmate Darlene, beloved daughter of Isadora, cherished aunt of Jessica and Bryce. She will live in our hearts forver. Services today, 11 AM, at Nieberg's Midwood Chapel, 1625 Coney Island Ave (corner Ave M), Brooklyn; 718-377-2700.      
 FRANKLIN-Rena Holt. On August 2, 2002, after a courageous battle with breast cancer. Beloved wife of Alan. Loving mother of Ian. Cherished daughter of Anne Holt. Devoted sister of Myra and Nina. Services 12 noon, today, at the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue, corner 91st Str
 FREEDMAN-Jessica Blackman. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, died on July 20, 2002 at her residence in Alexandria, Virginia. She was 48. Ms. Freedman was a college professor, attorney and author also known on and off the internet as one half of the ''Advice Sisters'' with her twin sister. Ms. Freed
 HERENDEEN-Jane. On July 29. Beloved wife of the late Walter Barton, loving mother of Ann. She will be greatly missed. A memorial service will be held on Friday, August 9, at 11 AM at Grace Church, 254 Hicks Street, Brooklyn. Contributions may be made to Heights & Hill Community Council, 160
 HOFF-Rose (nee Hochman). Age 97. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Ralph Hoff, loving daughter, dedicated sister, proud mother of Herbert (Evelyn) and Claire Greenfogel (Maurice), grandmother of Michael, Patricia, Terry, Stephen and Vivian, greatgrandmother of Aaron, Alana, Benjamin, Matthew,
 PAUL-Ruth. In loving memory of Ruth Paul, beloved mother of Cindi Barash & Mitchell Hoffman, beloved wife of Donald Paul, beloved grandmother of Noa and Etai Barash, beloved sister and sister-in-law of Doris and Marvin Schechter. Her love for life, generosity and love for all of us will be 
 ROSENTHAL - Dorothy Pressman. 88, died peacefully at home on July 30, 2002. She was born in Baltimore and was educated there and in Waterbury, CT, and Brooklyn, where she graduated from Girls Commercial High School and attended City College. She worked as a bookkeeper for many years and had
 WEISS-Ella (Esther). On August 2, 2002, at the age of 95 years young. Widow of husband Edward E. Deutsch, deceased 1948. Loving mother of Harvey Deutsch and dear mother-in-law of Jeanine. Loving mother of Martin Deutsch and dear mother-inlaw of Michelle and the late Rita. Beloved grandmothe
 CLAPP-Jeanne T. On August 3, at home in Bethesda, MD. Graduated Smith College 1938, where she was a member of the diving team and co-founder of the Smiffenpoofs. Married 59 years to Edwin J. Clapp. Survived by husband, sons Peter, John, and Nelson, granddaughters Rebecca, Mary, and Elizabet
 FRANKLIN-Rena. She never stopped fighting. Our heartfelt condolences to her whole family. Ellen and Sam Newhouse       
 HUGGARD-Anne S. 86, of Bayside, NY. Formerly of Malba (Whitestone), NY. Died in hospice care on August 3. Mrs. Huggard was predeceased by her husband of 63 years, Stephen F. Huggard, on November 10, 2001. She is mourned by her children Stephen and his wife Bonnie of San Diego, CA, David and
 SCHNEIDERMAN-Elsie (nee Brown). Born Brooklyn March 11, 1911. Died July 17, 2002, Boca Raton, FL. Wife of Murray; mother-in-law of Pat Phelps; grandmother of Charles, Robert, Brett, and Kirsten Sawyer. A smart, independent woman, she taught school, spoke French, saw the world. She left Broo
 Meredith Baylis, a prominent teacher at the Joffrey Ballet School in New York for 15 years and a former member of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, died on July 26 in Burbank, Calif. She was 72 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications after heart surgery, said Leslie Aqu
 BUNKER-Mavis McGuire. Born December 24, 1915, New York City. Daughter of Mr. & Mrs. Thomas Burt McGuire. Died at home surrounded by family in New York City, August 4, 2002. Beloved mother of Charles Sheffield Bunker, Sheila Nickerson and Mavis Taintor. The sister of Gerald McGuire and the l
 CAPLAN-Marilyn Gail. On August 5, 2002. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother. Survived by her husband, Dr. Ronald Caplan, her daughter Randy Perskin, son Gordon Caplan and three grandchildren. Her mother Sylvia Laderberg, her sister Iris Brookman. Memorial service will be Wednesday 10AM at 
 CLAPP-Jeanne T. On August 3, at home in Bethesda, MD. Graduated Smith College 1938, where she was a member of the diving team and co-founder of the Smiffenpoofs. Married 59 years to Edwin J. Clapp. Survived by husband, sons Peter, John, and Nelson, granddaughters Rebecca, Mary, and Elizabet
 DANTO-Phoebe. On August 5, 2002. Beloved wife of her devoted Jules. Cherished mother of Sue Charney Fischer, Alice and Dr. Barry Opell and adorable schnauzer ''Cassie''. Dearest sister of Alan Friedlander. Adoring ''Ga-Ga'' of Scott, Gregg, Glenn, Dr. Brett and Cheryl Opell and very proud '
 DAVOREN-Mary. Of NYC, a guest at the Marian Convent, died Thursday afteroon at the Marian Convent, Scranton, following an illness. Born in NYC, she was the daughter of the late John M. and Hanna K. Higgins Davoren. Miss Davoren was a graduate of the College of Sixty, Fordham University, NY,
 DISTENFELD-Mathilda. Loving wife of Joseph, devoted mother of Fred and Rita, adoring grandmother of Michael and Claire. She will always be remembered for her elegance, dignity and courage. Funeral services today, 2 PM at Schwartz BrosJeffer Memorial Chapels.       
 GOLDWASSER-Lois. Of Parishville, NY, and Miami Beach, FL. Devoted daughter of Dorothy and the late Harry I. Goldwasser; loving sister of Edwin, Judy, Larry; caring aunt of Jenifer, Cynthia, Martin; fond niece and cousin; generous and understanding friend to many. Her influence endures. Grav
 GOTTLIEB - Sylvia Berlin. July 31, 2002, (nee Green) of Wyncote, PA. Wife of the late Hyman Gottlieb. Mother of David Gottlieb, Martin Gottlieb, Rose Sluzas and Susan Collings. Also survived by ten grandchildren. Relatives and friends are invited to memorial services Sunday August 11, 2002 
 GREENBERG-Edith Tumin. Formerly of Bradenton, FL, Manhasset Hills, and Cambria Heights, N.Y. On August 4, at peace after a long struggle. Beloved wife of the late Harold, her partner for 47+ years in creating their cherished family. Dear mom to Sam, Norm, Bobby and Teddy. Mother-in-law of M
 HUGHES-Hilda. Of Franklin Square, NY. Born in Brooklyn on Sept. 29, 1916. Deceased in Westchester County, August 1, 2002. Former proprietor of ''The Tavern'' in South Ozone Park, NY. Devoted mother of Douglas Hughes of Cooper City, FL and Dennis Hughes of Manhattan. Also survived by her sis
 MAYER - Babette (nee Schmidt). Of Larchmont, NY, died peacefully at home surrounded by family on August 4, 2002 at the age of 78. Beloved wife of the late Richard L. Mayer. Devoted mother of Virginia (Mark), Richard (Caryl) and the late Kenneth Mayer. Proud grandmother of Heather, Nolan, Ra
 MUTRUX - Elizabeth ''Lynne'' (Lofting), 88. Died on August 4, 2002 in Glastonbury, CT. Born in New York City, she was the daughter of Flora Small and Hugh Lofting, author of the Dr. Dolitte books. She grew up in Connecticut and lived most of her adult life in Wilton. She studied art history
 Helen Matthew Robinson, the matriarch of the family that in 1864 bought the Hawaiian island of Niihau and then so zealously guarded its privacy that it is the only one of the islands where Hawaiian is still spoken as an everyday language, died on July 31 at her home in Makaweli, on the isla
 CAPLAN - Marilyn. We mourn the loss of our dear, courageous, brave, loving friend, Marilyn, who set an example of all that is wonderful & good. We extend our deepest sympathy to Ron and his family. We have lost a gem. The heavens have gained a new star. Rest in peace, dearest Marilyn. Bever
 CARDUNER-Harriet. After a short illness on August 6 at the age of 84. Devoted wife of the late Leonard Carduner and cherished by her sons Andrew and Stuart, her brother Ralph, sister-in-law Ann & grandson Jason. A woman of remarkable strength and courage, she met the challenges of life with
 DUNEFSKY - Phyllis. The staff of the Anti-Defamation League mourns the untimely passing of our colleague, Phyllis Dunefsky, Assistant Director, New York Campaign. Phyllis's professional skills and efforts to promote ADL's agenda were exceptional. We will miss her personal warmth. We extend 
 JAFFE-Bertha Margolis. On August 4th in Palm Desert, CA in her 91st year. Beloved wife of the late Irving Jaffe and loving mother of Mark Jaffe and Beth Pressman; grandmother of Kimberly & Lauren Pressman; mother-inlaw of June Jaffe. Caring, charitable and courageous, she was a grammar scho
 PARISH-Joan Lowther. On July 30, 2002, in North Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved wife of Richard L. Parish, Jr., devoted mother of George Lowther IV and mother-inlaw of Kathleen Burns Lowther, loving stepmother of Linda D. Parish, Winifred Parish Goss, Richard L. Parish III, James Preston Paris
 POLLEY - Mildred (nee Brown). 100 years young. Born in Brooklyn, New York, April 4, 1902. Died August 5, 2002. Devoted wife to the late Henry. Loving mother to Ruth Gundell & David Polley. Mother-in-law to Virginia and the late Peter. Proud grandmother to Andy and Carolyn, Jim and Ed, Jane,
 ROSEN-Thelma J. Passed away on Monday, August 5, 2002. She survived her husband of sixty-three years, Leonard, by eight months. Thelma is survived by her daughter, Gail, & a daughter in California, 5 grandchildren, nine great-grandchildren, and her sister, Ruth Beitman, of Connecticut. Thel
 SCHOEM - Georgiana. Of Park Ridge, formerly of Glen Rock, NJ. She was a graduate of Rutgers University, PastPresident of Hadassah, founding member of the Glen Rock Jewish Center, and Past-President of its Sisterhood. Surviving are her husband Robert, loving mother of Marla and Gary, devoted
 SHIH-Daphne Bayne Hellman. Passed away peacefully on August 4, 2002, at age 86. Famed jazz harpist of Hellman's Angels. Beloved mother of Daisy Hellman Paradis, Digger St. John and the late Sandy Bull. Dear motherin-law of David Paradis, Mona St. John and Candy Bull. Cherished grandmother o
 Daphne Bayne Hellman, the jazz harpist who performed around the world and for three decades at the Village Gate but who had a special affection for playing on subway platforms, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Manhattan. She was 86. Ms. Hellman, who had played on the streets of P
 CONRAD TOURETZ-Lillian. Died at home August 6, 2002, surrounded by her children and grandson, at peace with a beautiful smile. Psychotherapist, mother of David and Donna, grandmother of Zakary, sister of Gladys, Irene, Mae, beloved aunt, cherished member of lifelong community of friends. Pr
 FREUNDLICH - Roza (nee Lobatto). Passed away on August 2, 2002 at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was born in Amsterdam on June 25, 1907 and was predeceased by her husband Fred Freundlich and a sister in Holland. She is survived by her brother Fred Lobatto of New York City and her nieces
 GOLDFEDER-Odette Friedman. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Manhattan, passed away suddenly on August 5. A graduate of Passaic NJ High School, she is survived by her son Eric Friedman and his wife Liz; her husband Herbert Goldfeder; stepdauthers Madeline I. Berger and Fern Stasiuk and their h
 JAFFE-Bertha Margolis. On August 4th in Palm Desert, CA in her 91st year. Beloved wife of the late Irving Jaffe and loving mother of Mark Jaffe and Beth Pressman; grandmother of Kimberly & Lauren Pressman; mother-inlaw of June Jaffe and sister of Theresa Hahn. Caring, charitable and courage
 KORETZ-Selma B. Died on August 7, 2002 at age 80. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Cherished mother to Eileen Koretz Giampaolo and James Koretz. Loved mother-in-law to Jodie Koretz and Joseph Giampaolo. Loving grandmother of Lauren and Casey Angelo and Jonathan, Jeremy and Jesse Koretz. Sis
 SHAPIRO-Blanche (nee Haupt). On August 7, 2002. Wife of the late Saul J. Beloved mother of Ronald and Cornelia and the late Suzanne. Loving sister of Melville and the late Elliot. Loving sister-in-law of Gloria. Adored aunt to her nieces and nephews. She was a care giver extraordinaire. Ser
 CUSACK - Helen R. We mourn the loss of a wonderful saint-like woman, kind, gentle and righteous. We'll miss her wonderful spirit. Fred, David, Bill and Earle Mack       
 ELI-Rachel. Young Israel of Fifth Avenue records with sorrow the death of the mother of our esteemed member, Pnina Silver, and extends its heartfelt condolences to her and the bereaved family.       
 FAYARD-Annette Colgate. Died August 5, in Pt. Grimaud, France. Beloved wife of Michel; mother of 5 devoted children, and grandmother to 12 adoring grandchildren. Sister of Mimi Kirk of Greenwich, CT., and John K. Colgate Jr., of Mill Neck, NY. Annette graduated from Miss Porter's School and
 GURKO-Henny Durmashkin. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish HeritageA Living Memorial to the Holocaust, mourn the passing of Henny Durmashkin Gurko, beloved mother of our Trustee, Rita Lerner. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Rita and her family. Robert M. Morgenthau, Chair
 JAFFE-Bertha Margolis. On August 4th in Palm Desert, CA in her 91st year. Beloved wife of the late Irving Jaffe and loving mother of Mark Jaffe and Beth Pressman; grandmother of Kimberly & Lauren Pressman; mother-inlaw of June Jaffe and sister of Theresa Hahn. Caring, charitable and courage
 LEVINE-Mildred. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Mildred Levine. We extend our deepest sympathy to her beloved husband, William, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secr
 SHAPIRO-Blanche (nee Haupt). On August 7, 2002. Wife of the late Saul J. Beloved mother of Ronald and Cornelia and the late Suzanne. Loving sister of Melville and the late Elliot. Loving sister-in-law of Gloria. Adored aunt to her nieces and nephews. She was a care giver extraordinaire. Ser
 DANIELS - Doris Billings ''Dabbie'', 73, died August 4, 2002 at her home in Tisbury, MA. Beloved wife of George ''Gus'' and loving mother of Katherine B. Daniels. A Graveside service will be held on August 14th, 2002 at 2PM in Oak Grove Cemetery, Tisbury. For information, call the Chapman F
 FALTER-Janet. Died on August 9 in her 83rd year. Wife of the late Stanley. Devoted sister to Phil. Loving mother of Joel and Richard. Beloved grandmother of Sarah and Hannah. She will be deeply missed and always remembered for her undefeatable spirit & unfailing will. Services are 2:30 Sund
 KLEIN-Mary A. Loving sister, mother and doting grandmother, died on August 8th at Roosevelt Hospital at 73. A long time resident of Manhattan's upper West side, Mary instilled in her family a passion for life. Born in Michigan to Methodist minister William and Myrtle Morford, Mary was an av
 SCHEINGARTEN - Estelle. On August 9, 2002, the second day of Rosh Chodesh Elul. Reunited with her true love Louis, who departed 17 Elul 1981. Beloved mother of Anne (Irwin) Krasna, Carol (Hyam) Reichel and Susan (Norman) Ruttner. Cherished grandmother of 21 and great grandmother of 33. Devo
 SOKOLOVE-Sonya. Died on August 8th, 2002 in her 93rd year. Lucid and loving to the end. Predeceased by her husband, Abe, and son, Larry. Mother of Jane Alpern and Richard; grandmother of Aaron, Peter, Amanda, Maisie and Will; sister of Nat and Abe Gabriner and mother-inlaw of Karin & Lew. S
 WIDES-Ruth, August 10, 2001. Remembered for her love, beauty and sage counsel       
 BARISH-Judith Sophian. Age 81. On August 8, 2002. Beloved wife of Julian Barish, M.D. Devoted mother and motherin-law of Rick Barish, Tricia Barish and Greg Speckert. Loving sister-in-law/aunt to June Silverman, Betty Ray May, Jan Maslow, Deane Fox, Mark, Doug and Todd Sophian. Adored her c
 FRANCESCHINI-Doris May, 88. formerly of Folkestone, England, died August 3, 2002 in Oxford, MD. Cherished mother of Elizabeth and mother-in-law of David Weinstein. Survived by sisters, Violet, Alice, Jean, brother Harold, and predeceased by brother, Henry. Loved and missed by all who knew h
 POOR-Nancy (nee Anna Easton Poor). Age 74, died on June 30, 2002 in New York. She is survived by her son, John Marc Parrott and his two children, David and Julia, of Philadelphia and her two brothers Charles Lane Poor III of Washington, DC and J. Sheppard Poor of Rumson, NJ. Although Nancy 
 SCHEINGARTEN - Estelle. On August 9, 2002, the second day of Rosh Chodesh Elul. Reunited with her true love Louis, who departed 17 Elul 1981. Beloved mother of Anne (Irwin) Krasna, Carol (Hyam) Reichel and Susan (Norman) Ruttner. Cherished grandmother of 21 and great grandmother of 33. Devo
 COHAN - Roselle. Beloved wife of the late Adolph H. Cohan. Devoted mother of the late Robert. Loving sister of Al Goldberg. Dear aunt of Gail, Wendy and Bruce Waller, Howard Goldberg, Susan Gleicher and Linda Silberstein. Services Monday, 1:30 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North
 DATTNER - Margaret (Grete). 102, on August 9, 2002, widow of distinguished neurologist Dr. Bernhard Dattner. She is remembered fondly by former co-workers in the Department of Psychiatry, NYU School of Medicine, for her old world charm and elegance.       
 JAFFE-Patricia Ann. Died August 9, 2002, in Boca Raton, FL, after a long battle with emphysema. Beloved wife of Murray and devoted mother of Liz and Mark. In lieu of flowers donations in her name can be made to Hospice by the Sea, Boca Raton, FL. Her strength and courage never faltered.    
 MILLER-Rosalind S, retired professor of social work at Columbia University, died peacefully at home on August 8th at age 79. Devoted wife of the late Edwin Haviland Miller, beloved mother of Pamela Miller Ness, mother-in-law of Paul Marc Ness and cousin of Bernard D. Tunik. She received a B
 PIETROSI BARROW-Luciana L. Born Ascoli Piceno, Italy, March 12, 1925. Departed New York August 8, 2002. Devoted mother, steadfast friend, inspiring professor and mentor. She enriched the lives of everyone who had the good fortune to have known her. A memorial service is being planned for Se
 RICE-Florence (nee Burke). Age 76, of Morristown, NJ, on Saturday, August 10, following a long struggle with emphysema. Survived by her husband of 54 years, Francis X. Rice; her children Christina Connelly (Michael) of New York, Penny Walker (Larry) of Spearfish, SD, Franklin (Erin) of Mend
 STONE-Debra L. On August 10, 2002. We lost a wonderful, caring, kind and generous person. She will never be forgotten by her family and friends.       
 BARTLETT-Lysbet Lefferts. Died August 5, 2002, at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Philip Golden Bartlett. Devoted mother of Phyllis Bartlett and Sarah Bartlett Jones. Cherished grandmother of Christopher Walton Jones and Philip Bartlett Jones. Faithful great-grandmother to Carter Fenton Jo
 BOXER-Josephine. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Mother of Cynthia Witt, David Boxer and Savannah Scott, and mother-in-law of Richard and Vivian. Grandmother of Hal, Scott and Jonathan Witt, Laurie Boxer and Wendy Saper. Great-grandmother of Georgina, Nicola and Tyler. She loved her family
 EISLER-Sophie. Age 100. Beloved mother, cherished friend to many. Donations in her memory to The Lighthouse or Andrew Heiskell Library.       
 HELLER - Eleanor (nee Fried). Age 96. Died August 10, 2002 at her home in Florida. She is survived by her daughter, Mary Silk, her son Herbert Heller, five grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Services private.       
 OLSHAN - Daisy. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother, on August 12th, 2002. Daisy led a remarkable life and will be dearly missed by her family and many friends. Daisy (a most giving and beautiful person) brought joy to everyone around her.       
 BROWN-Betty Maloy. Born December 19, 1919, died at Somers Manor Nursing Home on August 13, 2002. Betty is survived by her children Susan Bauman of Somers, NY, Carol Gismondi of Yonkers, NY, and Paul Brown of Syracuse, NY. Predeceased by her husband, Lyle, and her son Gary. Also survived by 
 DaCOSTA-Beverly. Age 57, passed away on Friday, August 9, 2002 at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. She spent most of her professional career with the NYC Board of Education. She is survived by her husband, Gaston; her son, Dennis; her daughter, Karen; her mother, Avis; brother, Barrington. V
 GUIDA-Karen Ann. 43. Of Bleecker Street, NY. Wife of Luciano Guida. Died Sunday, August 11 in Manhattan. Karen was a warm, genuine and giving person who touched the hearts of all she met and will truly be missed by her family and friends. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated at 11A
 LUCKOM-Edith, nee Bindman, 93, died at her home on August 12, 2002. Devoted to her family, she was the beloved wife for 61 years of Ben; adored mother of Bram Luckom and Fran LuckomNurnberg; dear sister of Aaron Bindman; loved motherin-law of Debbie Luckom and Ronald Nurnberg; and cherished
 McCOLLUM-Eleanor Searle Whitney. Passed peacefully in her home in Houston, TX, on August 12, 2002. Her first marriage was to Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney, she later married Leonard F. McCollum. She was surrounded continuously in a circle of love and prayer by her attending physician, Dr. Ge
 SHERROW-Celia Lewis. In her 92nd year. Beloved and devoted mother of Gilda and Robert Silverman, Michael and Ellen Sherrow, and the late Dr. Fred Solomon Sherrow. Loving grandmother of Marshall, Marlene, David, Rachel and Gaby. Great grandmother of Amy, Jonathan, Benjamin, Jacob, Michael, S
 ZUCKERMAN-Mildred (nee Podhoretz). On August 11 in Florida at age 77. Much beloved by family, friends and former colleagues in City Hall, her loss will be long, widely and grievously felt.       
 Marjorie Goldwasser Wyler, for many years the producer of ''Eternal Light,'' a weekly radio program on Jewish themes, died July 22 in Norwalk, Conn. She was 86 and lived in Westport, Conn., and Manhattan. Working with the late Milton Krents and later with others, Ms. Wyler produced 
 ALEXANDER-Roslyn. Town and Village Synagogue/Tifereth Israel mourns the loss of its long standing member and extends heartfelt condolences to her husband Albert Alexander and son Howard Alexander and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Cantor Shayna Smith Dr. Roselyn Kolodny, Pres. 
 ALPER-Ethyl. On August 13, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sigfried Somers. Devoted mother of Owen Hill Alper & Harriet A. Otto. Cherished grandmother of David Hill Alper, Ellyn Schoen, Regan Otto Schroeder, Tiffany A. Otto and Dylan R. Otto and great-grandmother of Justine Bernhardt, Jason 
 ARIOWITSCH-Ilse. On August 13th, 2002. Devoted mother of Nina and Lance and mother-in law of Marilyn. Cherished grandmother of Allison and Erika. We love you. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory may be made to the Brain Tumor Foundation, 1350 Avenue of the Americas, Suite 1200, NY N
 BEVANS-Margaret S., M.D. A longtime resident of New York City and seasonal resident of Naples, FL and Centerville, MA. Died August 3, 2002 at Cape Cod Hospital at the age of 91. Dr. Bevans was born October 24, 1910 in Flushing, NY. She graduated from Flushing High School, from Trinity Colle
 DEVLIN - Wende (Dorothy Louise). Died August 13, 2002 at her home in Mountainside, NJ. Wende was a renowned author, painter and poet. Her portraits and still-lifes incorporate the beauty Wende saw in the world around her. Born on April 27, 1918, in Buffalo, NY, she attended Syracuse Univers
 GRUBER-Leanora S. Dearly beloved wife of Irving, loving mother of Judith and her husband Joseph, and of her late son, Samson. Adoring grandmother of David and Aaron. Dear sister of Lucille, dear sister-in-law of Seymour, Ruth and Dorothy. Contributions may be made to Weizman Institute, 130 
 HEILIGMAN-Shirley (nee Sperans), 75, on August 13, after a long heroic battle with cancer. Her warmth and enthusiasm will be remembered by a myriad of loyal friends. She was a devoted and beloved wife of Sol. Adoring mother of Andy & Tom, Randy & Nan. Grandmother of Michael and Zachary. Pre
 HORVITZ-Ann Battie. On Monday, August 12, 2002, of Washington, DC. Beloved wife of Wayne L. Horvitz. Devoted mother of Bill, Lee, Wayne and Philip. Ms. Horvitz, 80, died of a stroke after a long illness. She is survived by her husband and sons, by daughters-in-law Patti Trimble and Robin Ho
 KAUFMAN-Lilli. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed Founding Member. We extend deepest sympathy to her children Steven, Amy, and the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Norton D. Shargel, Rabbi Emeritus Steven Chill, Preside
 KURZNER - Beatrice (nee Henick). On August 12, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sydney. Much loved mother of Marcia & Dr. Stanley Walker and Ellen Kurzner. Beloved sister of Marilyn & Seymour Shimkowitz, Myrna JacobsRubin & Dr. L. Robert Rubin. Loved and adored by her grandsons Matthew, Adam 
 LEVINE-Ann Packer. On August 14, 2002. Devoted wife of Irving Levine. Beloved wife of the late Mac Packer. Loving mother of Jack and Ilene Packer, and Arlene and Dr. Scott Baden; and her precious jewels, her grandchildren Steven and Allison Packer, and Shaun and Jamie Baden. She was State C
 MINSKOFF-Nancy Lee. On August 14, 2002. Dear wife of Charles Milau. Cherished mother of Margaux Helen. Dearest sister of Joseph and Sam Minskoff. Precious daughter of Joan Newman. Services Friday 10AM at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave. at East 65th Street. MINSKOFF-Nancy. Congregation E
 SHERROW-Celia Lewis. In her 92nd year. Beloved and devoted mother of Gilda and Robert Silverman, Michael and Ellen Sherrow, and the late Dr. Fred Solomon Sherrow. Loving grandmother of Marshall, Marlene, David, Rachel and Gaby. Great grandmother of Amy, Jonathan, Benjamin, Jacob, Michael, S
 Diane J. Lipton, who fought for the rights of her disabled daughter and went on to become a lawyer and prominent advocate for children with disabilities, died on Aug. 8 at her home in Richmond, Calif. She was 57. The cause was a rare form of lung cancer, her husband, James Armstrong
 Eleanor Searle Whitney McCollum, a singer and a philanthropist in the fields of medicine, music and religion, died Aug. 12 at her home in Houston. She was 93. An Ohio doctor's daughter, Mrs. McCollum was a concert and opera singer for a short time after graduating from Florida South
 Nancy Chaffee Whitaker, a leading tennis player in the 1950's who won three consecutive national indoor championships, died Sunday in Coronado, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Indian Wells, Calif. The cause was complications of cancer, said her husband, the sportscaster Jack Whitaker
 CARUCCI - Clara T. The Board of Directors and staff and the Reach for a Star Committee of the National Center for Disability Services expresses profound sorrow at the passing of our beloved & esteemed Board Member and co-founder of Reach for a Star. We send our sincere condolences to her fa
 DICKMAN-Helen. On August 16, 2002. Loving mother of Linda and Herb Chipurnoi, Harriet and Ashley Hoffman. Grandmother of six and great grandmother of 14. She was a kind and gentle person and will be missed by all. Service Sunday 11:15 AM ''The Riverside'' 76 St. at Amsterdam.       
 HEILIGMAN-Shirley. (Sperans). Dear friend, beloved wife of our best man, Dr. Sol Heiligman, a beautiful, courageous lady who taught us all how to enjoy the bright side of life. We will miss the warmth of her smile and remember her with love. With deepest sympathy to her sons Andy and Tom an
 TAVOLACCI-Silvana M., 62, died on August 15, 2002. Wife of Joseph. Mother to Andrew and Paul. Grandmother to Olivia. Survived by her mother, Fedele DiFrancesco. Sister of Marie Zarrow and George DiFrancesco. Visiting hours at Clark Associates Funeral Home, Katonah, NY on Sunday, 2-4 and 7-9
 WEISBORD-Sally. On August 16, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Wallace Weisbord. Devoted & cherished mother of Ellen and Judi. Adoring and adored grandmother of Wendi. Loving mother-in-law of Howard and Robert. Much loved sister of Anna, Al, Charlie, Ethel and the late Molly & Lillie. Treasur
 ZIPSER-Eleanor Beyer, 86. Of Lauderhill, FL and Beechhurst, NY, died on August 16th, 2002. An attorney who practiced in NYC for many years, a pioneer in her time. Adored wife and partner of Herman B. Zipser, beloved mother of Myra Z. Korman & Marcia Z. Hefter. Mother-inlaw of Jack C. Korman
 Lucia Pamela, a one-of-a-kind entertainer best known for recording a music album in 1969 about her fictional travels to the moon, died on July 25 in a hospital in Los Angeles, where she lived. She was 98. Until 1992, Ms. Pamela's only album, ''Into Outer Space With Lucia Pamela,'' w
 BARRON-Frances B., age 94, formerly of Charlottesville, VA., died on August 13, 2002, at the Kentmere Nursing Center in Wilmington, DE. Mrs. Barron is survived by her three devoted sons, Mortimer B. Barron of Providence, RI, twins, Timothy H. Barron of Wilmington, DE., and retired Superior 
 BARTLETT-Lysbet Lefferts. The Order of Colonial Lords of Manors in America records with deep sorrow the death of Lysbet Lefferts Bartlett (Mrs. Philip Golden Bartlett), a long-time Board member, and extends our deepest sympathy to Phyllis Bartlett and Sarah Jones, and the rest of her family
 CARUCCI-Clara T. 85, of Great Neck, NY, on Thursday, August 15. Clara was a Friend of, and most recently honored by, Maynooth College, County Kildare, Eire. She served as a Board Member of the National Center for Disabilities Services, Albertson, NY, since 1962, and served as a Trustee of S
 HEILIGMAN-Shirley (nee Sperans), 75, on August 13, after a long heroic battle with cancer. Her warmth and enthusiasm will be remembered by a myriad of loyal friends. She was a devoted and beloved wife of Sol. Adoring mother of Andy & Tom, Randy & Nan. Grandmother of Michael and Zachary. Pre
 OSKOWITZ-Alycia. It's not supposed to happen to a young, 32 year old, beautiful, energetic, warm, funny and intelligent woman. Alycia died suddenly on Thursday evening following a major asthmatic attack one day before her engagement party that she had so meticulously and tastefully planned 
 REIN-Ethel (nee Deutsch). Died peacefully on August 16, 2002, in her 97th year at NYU Hospital. Ethel was a resident of Delray Beach, FL, and New York City. She was the devoted wife of the late Jack Rein. Ethel is survived by a large and loving family, which includes her sons Herbert (Susan
 ROTHSTEIN - Miriam Chil son. Died at age 91, on August 14, 2002. She would've turned 92 on September 21. Miriam was the wife of the late Irwin Chilson, the late Lou Fineberg, the late Phil Rispler and the latest late Moe Rothstein. The mother of Gail Cammer and the late Joan Tucker. Mother-
 SCHIFF-Josephine L. (Fifi). Of Locust Valley and Oyster Bay, LI, on August 14, 2002. She was a Volunteer at Memorial Sloane-Kettering for over 30 years and former President of The Society of The Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center 1975-1977. Former Board Member of The L.I. Alzheimer's F
 SLOAN-Beverly (nee Mass). 88. Died August 15, after a long struggle with Alzheimer's disease. She is survived by her devoted daughters Susan Sloan (Manhattan), Bobbi Sloan (Berkeley, CA), her grandson Corey Sloan Cisney, her brother George Mass, her sister Sara Redleaf, dear sister-in-law S
 TRIMBLE - Marie Gibbon. Died on August 10, 2002, in Palm Beach, FL. A longtime resident of New York City, and Southampton, NY, she was born in Charlottesville, VA, to the late John Edward Gibbon and Helen Betts Gibbon. She was a graduate of St. Ann's Episcopal School in Charlottesville, VA,
 WEISS-Harriet (nee Levey). Formerly of Kings Point, NY, and Delray Beach, FL, on August 13, 2002, in her 96th year. Devoted mother of Judith and Robert Sneider and Robert and Andrea Weiss. Loving grandmother of Steven and Linda Sneider, Susan and Daniel Goldman, Lee and Andrea Weiss, Louis 
 ZIPSER-Eleanor Beyer, 86. Of Lauderhill, FL and Beechhurst, NY, died on August 16th, 2002. An attorney who practiced in NYC for many years, a pioneer in her time. Adored wife and partner of Herman B. Zipser, beloved mother of Myra Z. Korman & Marcia Z. Hefter. Mother-inlaw of Jack C. Korman
 WIDES-Ruth, August 10, 2001. Remembered always for her love, beauty and sage counsel. She is missed       
 Doris Wishman, a prolific independent director of truly tasteless movies -- from nudist camp romps to the cult classic ''Bad Girls Go to Hell'' -- died on Aug. 10 in Miami. She lived in Coral Gables, Fla. She never revealed her age, but her passport carried a date of birth of April 
 Josephine Laimbeer Schiff, who was active in a number of charitable organizations, died on Wednesday at North Shore University Hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y. She was 89. For more than three decades, Mrs. Schiff, who was known as Fifi, was a volunteer at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Can
 BARTLETT-Lysbet Lefferts. Died August 5, 2002, at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Philip Golden Bartlett. Devoted mother of Phyllis Bartlett and Sarah Bartlett Jones. Cherished grandmother of Christopher Walton Jones and Philip Bartlett Jones. Faithful great-grandmother to Carter Fenton Jo
 COHEN-Naomi (nee Greenberg). August 18, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Seymour J. Cohen, devoted mother of Grace (Ira Grossman), Marc (Laura Leon), and Leeber (Elizabeth Jacob), adored grandmother of Dov and Ari Grossman, Michelle, Susan, Steven and Jonathan Cohen. Cherished sister of
 PATTERSON-Betty M. Of New York City and Southampton, at the Southampton Care Center on August 17, 2002, of heart failure after an extended illness. Survived by her husband Jere, her daughters Bettina Murray, Knight Meem and Dean Bauer; her son Jere Patterson Jr., and seven grandchildren. Mr
 WALKER-Maud Tilghman. On August 15, 2002, at her home in East Hampton, NY, after after a long illness. Beloved wife of 39 years of the late Bayard Walker and mother of six children; Bayard Walker Jr., Maud T. Walker, Cynthia Walker Diacre, Leonie Walker, David Walker and Christina Walker Bu
 CALLAHAN-Ruth M. In her 100th year on August 18, 2002. Loving wife of the late Joseph L. Beloved aunt of Anita T. Rogers, Catherine McGuirk and Patricia Murphy. Member Ladies of Charity Archdiocese of New York. Reposing Towers Funeral Home, Inc. Long Beach and Foxhurst Roads, Oceanside, LI.
 COHEN-Naomi (nee Greenberg). August 18, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Rabbi Seymour J. Cohen, devoted mother of Grace (Ira Grossman), Marc (Laura Leon), and Leeber (Elizabeth Jacob), adored grandmother of Dov and Ari Grossman, Michelle, Susan, Steven and Jonathan Cohen. Cherished sister of
 EDLES-Helen Hurowitz, died on August 18 at age 87. She was the widow of Dr. Allen Edles, the devoted mother of two sons, Gary and Reid and two daughters-in-law, Nadine and Lisa, the beloved grandmother of Allison, and aunt to three generations of loving nieces and nephews. Funeral services 
 FINKELSTEIN - Sally. Fe bruary 1, 1907 to August 19, 2002. Adored grandmother, great-grandmother. ''Sal.'' Her sense of humor and M&M's are with her always. Gold, diamonds, rubies, emeralds were her family. Ruth Allan, Marty, Susan, Bette, Stephen, Alice, Joe, Larry, Jennie, Ben, Sam and Em
 KAGAN-Helen (Kaskel). at age 89, of Fort Lee, NJ, Aug. 19, 2002. Remembered with love by her family.       
 LOEB-Nellie (nee Levi). Peacefully on August 11, 2002 in Washington Heights, N.Y. Born in Neuhof, Germany, April 19, 1905. Beloved wife of the late Max, her husband of 45 years; sister of the late Jennie Kahn and the late Meita Levi. she is survived by her brother Leo and her nieces Ruth an
 PEGRISH-Nima, Dr. The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester community mourns the death of Dr. Nima Pegrish, beloved & treasured member of our faculty for 22 years. Dr. Pegrish imbued a generation of students with a commitment to Jewish learning & a passionate love of the Jewish people and
 SCHIFF-Mrs. Josephine (Fifi). The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center mourns the passing of Fifi Schiff, President of The Society from 1975 to 1977. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Mrs. William M. Carson, President, The Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Ca
 SMITH-Marie H. Died Aug. 15, 2002 in Washington, D.C. Survived by her husband, Timothy D. Smith, three children, four grandchildren, and one sister.       
 SPIGELMAN-Jessica. Age 38. Fought bravely for two months after a heart transplant. She was the beloved daughter of the late Sondra Spigelman and is survived by her father and stepmother, David & Nancy, her brothers Andrew and Fred, and sister Samantha. Services will be held at the Norman L.
 WALKER-Maud Tilghman. On August 15, 2002, at her home in East Hampton, NY, after after a long illness. Beloved wife of 39 years of the late Bayard Walker and mother of 6 children; Bayard Walker Jr., Maud T. Walker, Cynthia Walker Diacre, Leonie Walker, David Walker and Christina Walker Burk
 Lillian Goldman, who made a major contribution to the reconstruction of the library at Yale Law School, in part because it was among the first law schools in America to admit women, died yesterday at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 80. The cause was pancreatic cancer, the fam
 BRASNER-Carol. On August 19, 2002. Devoted mother of Shari Brasner, MD. and Stacy Brasner. Loving grandmother of Samantha and Zachary. Cherished mother-in-law of Jeffrey Cohen. Fashion consultant to friends, family and all who came to Clyde, Jr. Services today 10:00 AM at ''Gutterman's'', 8
 FOTI-Sheryl Anne Susan. Age 57 died peacefully at home in Cambridge, MA. on August 19, surrounded by her family after a courageous fight against lung cancer. Graduated 1966, University of Rochester, 1968 Columbia School of Social Work, from 1971 to 1974, she co-directed the Adolescent Day S
 GOLDMAN-Lillian. On August 20, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sol Goldman. Loving mother of Allan Goldman, Diane Goldman Kemper, Amy Goldman and Jane Goldman. Cherished grandmother of Stephanie Pitel, Cindy Blotner, Robin Kemper, Steven Goldman, Tris Goldman, Sara Arno, Solina Lewis Goldman
 GREEN-Florence. On August 17, 2002, in Greensboro, N.C., at the age of 88. Remembered lovingly by her son, Ronald, and his wife, Susan; her grandchildren, Cynthia, Jonathan, and Anne; her grandson-in-law, Josh Jablons, and her great-grandchildren, Zachary, Jonah and Hannah Jablons. Florence
 JACOBSON - Marjorie. On August 19, 2002. Beloved wife for 59 years of Leslie A. Jacobson. Devoted mother of Sue Berland and David Jacobson. Beloved motherin-law of Phuong Jacobson & Joseph Berland. Cherished grandmother of Leslie Meyers, Maxwell Meyers, & James Berland. Step-grandmother of 
 STODDARD-Margery Pepperrell. August 20, 2002. Beloved daughter of the late Francis R. Stoddard and the late Eleanor Wipple. Loving sister of Dudley W. Stoddard of New York City & Frances S. Dunn of Albany, Georgia. Devoted aunt of Lucy H. Hanafourde of Miami, FL., Sherburne W. Dunn of Olath
 TAVITIAN-Arlene M. On August 16, 2002. Beloved wife of Aso. Dear sister of Doreen Amaral. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday, August 23, from 2-5 and 7-9PM. Funeral service at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Ave at 73 St Saturday, 11AM. 
 Freidann Parker, a founder of the Colorado Ballet, died on Aug. 2 in Denver, where she lived. She was 77. The cause was a bacterial infection, said her companion, Lillian Covillo, a co-founder of the troupe. Ms. Parker was typical of the pioneers, mostly unsung, who develope
 CHRISTENSEN HATCHERDorothy, born September 12, 1924 in NYC; died August 17, 2002 in Palm Harbor, FL. Mother of Donna Christensen (Holt Smith) granmother of Erica Smith. Preceded in death by her husband Al Hatcher. She worked in NYC at Bonwit Tellers for 30 years in mens fashion; followed by
 DAWN-Alice Rosemarie, died August 20, 2002, at home, in the arms of her loving husband, David Aronson, and at peace, after a courageous struggle with cancer. In addition to her husband David, she is survived by her sister Carolyn of Walnut Creek, CA; her brother Robert of Fayetteville, NC; 
 GETZ-Harriette. On August 21, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Alden Getz. Loving mother of Deren and his wife Barbara. Cherished grandmother of Alec and Anders. Devoted sister of the late Harold Berger, the late Mildred Boltuch, and the late Emmanuel Berger. Loving aunt and great aunt. She w
 GOLDMAN-Lillian. On August 20, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sol Goldman. Loving mother of Allan Goldman, Diane Goldman Kemper, Amy Goldman and Jane Goldman. Cherished grandmother of Stephanie Pittel, Cindy Blotner, Robin Kemper, Steven Goldman, Tris Goldman, Sara Arno, Solina Lewis Goldma
 JACOBSON - Marjorie. On August 19, 2002. Beloved wife for 59 years of Leslie A. Jacobson. Devoted mother of Sue Berland and David Jacobson. Beloved motherin-law of Phuong Jacobson & Joseph Berland. Cherished grandmother of Leslie Meyers, Maxwell Meyers, & James Berland. Step-grandmother of 
 MINUSE-William Brewster. At age 94 on August 21, 2002 of East Setauket, Long Island. Beloved husband of the late Jean Fairservis Minuse. Loving father of Catherine J. Minuse & her husband Henry Stevenson. Devoted grandfather of James Minuse Stevenson & Robert Minuse Stevenson. Mr. Minuse wa
 TAVITIAN-Arlene M. On August 16, 2002. Beloved wife of Aso. Dear sister of Doreen Amaral. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday, August 23, from 2-5 and 7-9PM. Funeral service at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Ave at 73 St Saturday, 11AM. 
 Edith Lutyens Bel Geddes, a costume designer for theater, ballet and film and a theatrical producer, died on Aug. 16 at her home in Hudson, N.Y. She was 95. Known as Edith Lutyens for much of her professional career, she made and designed costumes for theater productions of ''The Cr
 BELLOW-Blanche, born July 31, 1904, in New York City, died August 21, 2002, in West Palm Beach, FL. Beloved mother of Anne Ross and the late Marilyn Lee. Survived by sister Rose Feuer. Cherished grandmother of Marlene Hummel, Janis Adler, and Jordan and Jami and the late Mitchell Lee. Deare
 GOLDMAN-Lillian. Dearest Lillian, beloved matriarch of the Goldman family, thank you for loving us so selflessly, so completely, for so long. We have been blessed-and will continue to be so-by your warmth, wisdom, and wit; your strength, bravery, and resilience. You are our inspiration and 
 JOHNSON-Ginger (Virginia). At home after a heart attack. Retired Executive Assistant, Montgomery Securities. Ginger brought cheer and humor into the lives of all she knew. Survived by daughter, Sandy Johnson Jessup of Laurel, NY; son, Rupert H. Johnson III (actor Jordan Sax), Palos Verdes e
 MINUSE-William Brewster. At age 94 on August 21, 2002 of East Setauket, Long Island. Beloved husband of the late Jean Fairservis Minuse. Loving father of Catherine J. Minuse & her husband Henry Stevenson, and William B. Minuse Jr. Devoted grandfather of James Minuse Stevenson & Robert Minus
 POLITI-Julia. Congregation Shearith Israel mourns the death of its devoted member Mrs. Julia Politi and extends its deepest sympathy to her family. Peter Neustadter, Parmas       
 PRISAMT-Anita. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Int. Sr. Rabbi-Myron Fenster Steven Markowitz, President       
 ROSENFELD - Lillian (nee Myers), 92. Died August 22, 2002, of North Miami Beach, FL. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Samuel Rosenfeld, beloved mother of Alexander M. Rosenfeld and Marcia R. (Manning) Feinleib; loving grandmother of Richard (Katherine), Joel, and Steve
 TAVITIAN-Arlene M. On August 16, 2002. Beloved wife of Aso. Dear sister of Doreen Amaral. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday, August 23, from 2-5 and 7-9PM. Funeral service at Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Ave at 73 St Saturday, 11AM. 
 GOLDBERG-Gail E. (Dryer). Beloved wife of the late Harvey. Survived by her children Seth, Stephanie, Danielle and loving friends. Service Sunday 12 noon at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 West Broad Street, Mount Vernon, NY.       
 Charlotte Schuchardt Read, the former director of the Institute of General Semantics, an educational center and publisher in Brooklyn, died on July 25 at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. She was 92. General semantics, a branch of linguistics founded by Alfred Korzybski in the 
 Emily Genauer, an art critic who championed 20th-century painting and sculpture over the course of a four-decade newspaper career and won a Pulitzer Prize for criticism, died on Friday after a long illness. She was 91. Starting out as the critic for The New York World in the 1930's,
 BRAGMAN-Mary. November 21, 1911-August 22, 2002. Died after a brief illness at the Rockleigh Jewish Home. Mary and her husband Ben co-founded Service Smoked Fish in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Mary retired as president of the company. Survived by her daughter Sanda Cohen (Sam), son Billy Bragma
 DAVIDIAN-Grace A. Beloved wife of David, loving mother of Peter (JoAnne) and Katy (Heros). Devoted grandmother to Olivia, Ani, Salbi and Alisha. Beloved sister to Lawrence and Florence Shahbegian. Grace was a remarkably beautiful woman known for her creativity as an artist and fashion illus
 DROGIN-Marian (nee Persky). On Friday, August 23, 2002, of Bayonne. Beloved wife of the late Herman and Sidney Drogin. Devoted mother of Judi Drogin-Feldman and Jani Stein. Loving grandmother of Stefanie and Alex Stein, also survived by puppy Rudy. Funeral services conducted from the Menora
 GETZ-Harriette. Always loving, gracious, thoughtful, charming and creative. She was a great friend for 50 years. I will miss her. Roz       
 GRODEN-Gertrude. We note with deep sorrow the passing of Board member Gertrude Groden, class of 1933. She served as Treasurer of the Fund for 25 years and set an example of dedication for all of us. Hadassah Winer Gold, President Scholarship and Welfare Fund of the Alumni Association of Hun
 KAYE-Sarah (nee: Chanin). Suddenly August 17. Beloved aunt. Deep sorrow shared with Murray, Barbara (Joel), Richard (Susan), Ari, Zachary, Alexandra, and the extended family and many friends who knew and loved her. Forever in our hearts. Audrey and Mel Schoenfeld       
 KRAMER-Ruth (nee Eisenberg). 89 years, died on August 24, 2002. Our revered and beloved mother. We will miss her presence but her memory will endure through the love of her children, Kenneth, Joan (Penny) Carpenter, Karen Hein, Jacqueline Kupper. She was loved and respected by her in-law ch
 LEIDEL JACOBS-AliceAnn. Died on August 20 after a long illness. Born in Glen Rock, PA, AliceAnn was a longtime resident of Syosset, NY, before moving to NYC. A life member of the American Association of University Women, AliceAnn had served as President of AAUW's mid-island NY branch, Presi
 LEVINE-Diane Perlroth. In Stamford, August 23, 2002, of 211 Greens Farms Road, Westport, formerly of New Haven. She was born in New Haven June 7, 1941, and lived a short time in New York City before returning to Connecticut where she spent the past 34 years. She is survived by her husband, 
 LOWE-Gladys. Died August 20, 2002. Survived by her loving sisters Doris Lowe and Marilyn Millstone & brother Harold Lowe, five nephews and their families.       
 PATTERSON-Betty M. The Board of Directors and the staff of Grosvenor Neighborhood House, Inc., are deeply saddened by the death of our friend and distinguished Board Member of 44 years. She was a real part of its growth and will be remembered with affection for her strength and support. We 
 PHILLIPS - Barbara Antoi nette (nee Benn). Passed away peacefully in the presence of her family on August 22, 2002. She was the daughter of Aileen and the late Andrew Benn. Devoted mother of Michelle and Alana. Grandmother of Alexis and Christina. Sister of Tessa, Michael and Orrin. Aunt of
 Emily Genauer, an art critic who championed 20th-century painting and sculpture over the course of a four-decade newspaper career and won a Pulitzer Prize for criticism, died on Friday after a long illness. She was 91. Starting out as the critic for The New York World in the 1930's,
 CASASIN-Pilar Frau. On August 22nd, 2002, at age 87. Beloved wife of the late Joaquin. Loving mother of Trini. Dear sister of the late Carmen Marcelo, Trini Garcia and Herminia Aparisi. Funeral Mass at Blessed Sacrament Church, 152 West 71 St, Tuesday, 1:15 PM. Entombment Woodland Mausoleum
 COHEN - Frances. Dear mother, until your unfortunate illness a few years ago, you were an accomplished pianist and an outstanding athlete, as well as being a sensitive, warm, loving, understanding woman who never had a bad word to say about anyone. You were my golf and bridge partner, as we
 HERSHCOPF - Berta Ruth. Passed away on August 25, 2002, of metastic breast cancer, peacefully at home in her sleep. Beloved wife of Jack, mother of Shelley, Amy and David, grandmother of Azriel, Maaseiah, Aviva Rahel, Solomon, Samuel, Asher and Ariel Rose. A celebration of her life will be 
 KRAMER-Ruth (nee Eisenberg). 89 years, died on August 24, 2002. Our revered and beloved mother. We will miss her presence but her memory will endure through the love of her children, Kenneth, Joan (Penny) Carpenter, Karen Hein, Jacqueline Kupper. She was loved and respected by her in-law ch
 LEVINE-Rose Ruth. 79, died Friday, in Syracuse, NY. Formerly of Great Neck and West Palm Beach. Formerly of Gold Bros. Jewelers of New York City. Mrs. Levine was a graduate of Hunter College. She was predeceased by first husband Herman Bogin in 1966, second husband David Levine in 1997. Sur
 MOONEY-Katherine. Suddenly on August 23, 2002. Ms. Mooney was the daughter of the late Daniel and Florence Mooney, and proudly the God-child of the late Governor Aldred E. Smith. She was a graduate of The Convent of the Sacred Heart at Manhattanville College and a longtime executive at Merr
 WEINER - Sadie. Beloved wife of the late Solomon. Devoted mother of Harold and cherished mother-in-law to Merrill. Loving grandmother to Jill, Lesley and Jeffrey. A woman of pioneering character and perserverance, she dedicated her life to teaching children and to her faith during 95 indepe
 COHEN - Frances Kostick. September 17, 1903-August 24, 2002, of Palm Beach, FL. Wife of the late Louis D. Cohen. Cherished mother of Marilyn C. Davimos, Arthur G. Cohen and the late Richard M. Cohen, mother-in-law to Karen B. Cohen and Richard Davimos, and remembered lovingly by 11 grandchi
 de CATES-Nelia Barletta. After a long and valiant fight against cancer, Nelia Barletta de Cates succumbed in Paris, Saturday, August 24, 2002. Her life will be celebrated at an Anglican service in the American Cathedral, Paris, on Wednesday, August 28. Her husband was the late Jack M. Cates
 DIMENSTEIN - Cindy. A Westport resident died Saturday, August 24, in Manhattan, NY. She was 40. She died of cancer according to her family. Beloved wife of Nicholas D. Mandelkern. Loving Mother of Tayla, Carmi, Ronit. Dear sister of Howard Dimenstein and Beth Seidel. A Service was held at C
 HAMMER-Roslyn. Beloved wife of Irving. Devoted mother of Susan Neufeld (Stewart) and Edward Hammer (Cathy). Adored grandmother of Alex and Daniel Neufeld, Jenny, Brian and Glenn Hammer. Dear sister of Marlyn Smith. She will be missed by all who knew her. Services today, 1:15 PM, ''Sinai Cha
 WINTER-Jessica. 81, passed away on Sunday, August 25, 2002, following a short illness. Beloved wife and best friend of Martin E. Winter. Devoted aunt of Marvin and Diane Bernstein, Philip and Beverly Sklover, William and Sharon Friedheim, William and Oda Friedheim, Drs. Lee and Margarita Wi
 Quail Hawkins, the author of gentle children's books like ''A Puppy for Keeps,'' and ''Mark, Mark, Shut the Door,'' both popular in the 1940's, died on Aug. 16 at the retirement home where she lived in Pacific Grove, Calif. She was 97. Miss Hawkins wrote nine books and edited or was
 ALLEN-Harold. Of Great Neck on August 27, 2002, age 92. Beloved husband of Ruth. Cherished father of Janet and Joe Dippell and Joy and David Campbell. Grandfather of Dawn Dippell, Allen Dippell and Marjorie Mannix and her husband John. Great grandfather of Michael, Evan and Megan Mannix. Br
 BERENS-Mary. On August 27, 2002. She would have said she was 59. Beloved wife of Abe for 64 years, treasured mother of Sandy and Marcia; Susan and Alan; Bob and Arlene. Grandmother of Andy and Frances; Lisa and Andrew; Carolyn; Jennifer and Evan; Jeff and Kathy. Greatgrandmother of Connor, 
 GILBERT-Irene (nee Rook). Passed away August 26. Adoring mother of Adam and loving wife of Roger. Loving sister of Eugene and Eve and best friend of Karen and Sandy. Loving aunt to Jeffrey, Wendy, Robert, Lauren and loving step-mom of Cary and Brooke. Irene was the glue that kept the family
 KEENAN-Selma M. 94, died August 24. Resident of Vermont and New York City. Daughter of Adele and Henry Meisels, wife of D'Elbert Keenan (deceased). Graduate of Cornell University, Masters from Columbia University. Retired from the Board of Education in New York City and then later retired f
 TUCKER-Pauline. On August 27, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Tucker, loving mother of Karen Lefrak and Lynn Weiss. Cherished grandmother of Harrison, James, Eric, Jonathan and Jennifer. Services Wednesday, 10 AM at Temple Emanu-El, Fifth Ave. at 65 St. TUCKER-Pauline. We deep
 WEINBERG-Leah. On August 26, 2002. Beloved wife of Erwin. Loving mother of Sharon and Lauren. Dearest daughter of Florence Bluestein and dear sister of Carl Bluestein. Over 30 years of loving service, to the children that she taught and schools that she administered and a very active member
 WINTER-Jessica. 81, passed away on Sunday, August 25, 2002, following a short illness. Beloved wife and best friend of Martin E. Winter. Devoted aunt of Marvin and Diane Bernstein, Philip and Beverly Sklover, William and Sharon Friedheim, William and Oda Friedheim, Drs. Lee and Margarita Wi
 WITT-Marcia H. 66, on August 27. Predeceased by her loving son David. Beloved wife of Bob, loving mother of Beth and Billie and son-in-law John, step-children Debbie, Richie and Russell, cherished grandmother of Ana, Aviv, Ashley, Tori, Keri and Ryan. She will be deeply missed by all who kn
 BERENS-Mary. On August 27, 2002. She would have said she was 59. Beloved wife of Abe for 64 years, treasured mother of Sandy and Marcia; Susan and Alan; Bob; and Arlene. Grandmother of Andy and Frances; Lisa and Andrew; Carolyn; Jennifer and Evan; Jeff and Kathy. Greatgrandmother of Connor,
 DUFFY-Marie. The Officers, Directors, staff and volunteers of the USO Metropolitan New York are saddened at the passing of Marie Duffy, a USO staff member and volunteer for over 35 years. We extend deepest sympathy to her family and friends. Eugene V. Lombardo, Executive Director Hazel Cath
 GROSSMAN-Beatrice N. Beloved wife of the late William M. Grossman. Devoted mother of John and Kenneth, daughters-in-law Joan, Sunny and Pam. Cherished sister of the late Etta Jacobs, Sue Meyers and Tess Spirer. Dear grandmother of Jill, Amy, Eric, Galen, Kyle, Caroline and great - grandchil
 HERSHCOPF-Berta Ruth. A Celebration of her life at 2PM, Saturday, August 31, at the Zoo School at Central Park Zoo, 64 St. and 5th Ave.       
 MEIERS-Annie Dix. On August 22. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Joseph Meiers, respected educator, admired friend to many. Born in Montgomery, Alabama on October 22, 1902. She was passionate about people and politics. We loved her. We will miss her. She is remembered by her devoted sister-in-l
 SUAREZ-Sheila D. Aged 74. Died on August 28, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Joseph A. Suarez, beloved sister of Joseph Dudley Devine, beloved mother of Randolph West, II and John Dudley West, beloved stepmother of Andrea Hill and Joseph Anthony Suarez, Jr. after a brief battle with cancer. 
 ALLEN-Doris, Ed.D. The Board of Directors and staff of the Jewish Community Center on the Palisades deeply mourn the loss of Doris Allen, who, prior to her recent retirment, served as Director of the JCC's Therapeutic Nursery. Dr. Allen was a beloved member of the JCC ''family,'' and we wer
 ELKUS-Margaret ''Mimi'' on August 28, 2002. Loving mother of Andrea and Martin Blattberg. Adoring grandmother of Ian Unger. Dear friend to all who knew her. Service Friday 1PM at ''The Riverside'' 76 St & Amsterdam Ave.       
 GROSSMAN-Beatrice. I have lost a cherished, beautiful friend. To have touched her life somewhere along the line, is to have enriched one's own. Claire Vogelman       
 KAPLAN-Hoda Jane. 57, of Brooklyn, died August 21, from injuries in a car accident. Sailor, scholar, lover of subways, she lived with integrity and a full heart. South Street Seaport volunteer, captain of The Sunnyside. She studied Greek at University of Chicago, worked for the MTA for 17 y
 PINCUS - Shirley Zimmer man, August 27, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Zimmerman and the late Max Pincus. Loving mother of Ellen and grandmother of Ian. Devoted sister and aunt of Janet and Amy, cherished stepmother through greatgreat-step-grandmother. Inspiring educator, caring frie
 TANNENBAUM-Muriel. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member and trustee Muriel Tannenbaum. Muriel was a woman who encouraged us daily to attain the goals of serious study, prayer and fellowship. We shall miss her wise and caring counsel and especially her love. May He who consol
 WEINBERG-Leah. The Officers, Trustees and members of the Forest Hills Jewish Center are saddened by the loss of our dear friend and longtime member, Leah Weinberg, former School Board Chairman, Past President of the Parents' Association and outgoing Board of Trustees member. She will sorely
 ZIERER - Freda K., died peacefully after a long illness on August 26, 2002. Widow of Harry, mother of the late Peter, she is survived by her loving daughter Jane of NYC, brother Morris Kaminsky, and two granddaughters. A lady of beauty and elegance.       
 KAPLAN-Iris B. of Mamaroneck, N.Y. On August 30, 2002. Wife of the late Howard Kaplan. Mother of Anthony and James Kaplan. Sister of Jane Jenks. Grandmother of Steven, Jeffrey and Colin Kaplan. Funeral service Sunday, 12:30PM at Congregation Emanu-El of Westchester, Westchester Avenue, Rye,
 ORDEN-Patricia (nee Steele). Deeply loved wife of Morris. Beloved sister of Benita, Joscelyn, Marilyn and Richard. Cherished aunt. Graveside service 2PM Sunday, Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, N.Y. For transportation to cemetery, speak to a Director at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 2127
 TANNENBAUM-Muriel. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband William and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin Chairman of the Board Paul S. Schreiber 
