 Hansel Mieth Hagel, a photographer who documented the Great Depression and World War II for Time, Fortune and Life magazines, died on Feb. 14 at a friend's home in Santa Rosa, Calif. She was 88 and lived on a ranch nearby. She was known professionally as Hansel Mieth, and she left a
 AGREE-Betty On February 25, 1998, in her 74th year. Daughter of the late Isadore and Mary Agree. Dear sister of George E. and Lee Agree, of Washington D.C. Beloved aunt of Andrew, Robert and Jonathan. Betty will be lovingly remembered by her many friends, colleagues and relatives. Memorial 
 BILENKER-Hinda Fisher. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of its beloved member, Judith Rabinowitz. May her family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 BIRNBAUM-Zaldin Ethel. Devoted wife of the late Stanley.Beloved companion of Jerry Litt. Beloved mother of Alfred and Meg, Marty and Nancy. Dear sister of Seymour and Harriet. Adored grandmother of Stephanie, Michelle, Shane, Samantha and Elizabeth. She will be sorely missed and loved by al
 BISSELL-Edith (nee Roach). Age 62 of Chester Township, NJ, on Wednesday, February 25, 1998. Wife of Elliston Perot Bissell III of Morristown, NJ; mother of Elliston P. IV of Seattle, WA, Rolin P. of Chestnut Hill, PA and Ann P. of London, England. Sister of Lloyd B. Roach of West Chester, P
 BURNS-Ethel, died on February 27, 1998. For many years she was connected with educational broadcasting on WNYE-FM and WNYETV channel 25, with many of her program series winning Emmys for CBS-TV, where they were broadcast. Among the programs she produced for television and radio were America
 DALY-Katharine (nee Boston). Formerly of New York City, died at La Jolla, CA., on February 23, 1998 in her 95th year. Beloved wife of the late J. Holmes Daly and adored mother of Pamela Daly Vose. She was the daughter of the late Charles A. Boston and Ethel Lyon Boston of New York. Her fath
 GREENBAUM-Ray (nee Schreibman). Died February 28. Dear wife of the late Max Rozmarin and the late Noah Greenbaum. Beloved mother of Vivian and Donald Resnicoff, and Margie and Jerry Friedman. Dearest grandmother of Matt Resnicoff, Merryl and Jay Newler, and Nancy and Andrew Schwartz. Caring
 HOFF-Mary Catherine (nee Tuomey), age 74, of Oradell, NJ, died Thursday, February 26, 1998. Beloved wife of the late George E. Hoff, wonderful mother of eight children, she is survived by seven: Mary Eileen Roos and Nancy Tishman, both of Arlington, VA.; Walter Hoff of Atlanta, Georgia; Vin
 HUBBELL-Dorothy Twyeffort. A woman of elegant strength, died February 23, 1998 in Falmouth, Me. She was 89. Born in Paris, to American parents, Josephine and Louis Twyeffort, she lived there until she graduated from Vassar in 1930. A year later she married William Bradford Hubbell and moved
 LONG-Mary Elizabeth, (Liz) of New York, NY and Orlando, FL. on February 18, 1998 in Orlando. Survived by her sisters Patricia Landmann, and Kate Hennessey, as well as many nieces and nephews. Funeral service private. In lieu of flowers, please make donations to the ASPCA.       
 OYSTER-Jim, 67. Of New York City and Blairstown, N.J., on February 23, 1998 from acute, latestage alcholism. Veteran actor of seven Broadway plays, many tours and regional theater productions. Beloved ''unk'' of Missy Mellor and her siblings Jeffrey, Jenny and Jim. Also survived by cousin M
 REED-Dr. Frances C., Ed.D. Leaves behind her beloved husband Lionel and her four sons, Drs. Harold, Lawrence, Irving and Barry Reed. Daughter-in-laws Arlene and Jill, sisters Anna Yager and Pearl Brod. Grandchildren Staci, Michael, Joshua, Dahlia and Ilana. She devoted her life to the educa
 SEGRERA HOLDEN - Carolina. February 8, 1998, at age 92, in New York City. Opera singer at La Scala of Milan during the 1930s and concert singer of ''lieder'' and art songs in leading concert halls in Europe in the 1950s. Ms. Segrera taught singing in her studio in Manhattan from 1960 to 199
 SHAKIN-Selma. In her 100th year. Survived by son Bernard Shakin of NYC, daughter Edith Katz of Somers, NY, granddaughters Jane Lebowitz and Terry Kleinberg, great-grandchildren Emily, Matthew, Sophie and Harry. Memorial service to be held at future date.       
 VISERTO-Louise, nee Filizzola. Passed on peacefully on February 22 at the age of 92. She is survived by her son Charles Bellissimo and many grandchildren and great grandchildren. Louise is buried at Pinelawn Cemetery, Long Island.       
 WASSERMAN-Miriam W. At home, on February 26, 1998 in her 90th year. Loving wife of 65 years of the late John Wasserman. Devoted mother of Ann Kiggen and Jane Ferrar. Beloved grandmother (our Lulu) of Andrew, Carolyn, Linda, Derek and Jessica. Doting great-grandmother of Aaron, Daniel, Peter
 WINTHROP-Amory (Elizabeth). Of Millbrook, N.Y. Died Feb. 26, 1998. Daughter of Robert Winthrop and the late Theodora Ayer Randolph. Survived by her sisters Theodora Hooton and Cornelia Bonnie, and a niece and nephews. Ms. Winthrop was an accomplished horse-woman and a horse show judge. She 
 HIRSHON-Dorothy H. The life of Dorothy H. Hirshon, who passed away on January 29, will be celebrated on Thursday, March 5, at 11:30 AM in the New School's Tishman Auditorium, 66 West 12th Street. Mrs. Hirshon had been on the Boards of the New School for Social Research, Phoenix House Founda
 GREENBAUM-Ray (nee Schreibman). Died February 28. Dear wife of the late Max Rozmarin and the late Noah Greenbaum. Beloved mother of Vivian and Donald Resnicoff, and Margie and Jerry Friedman. Dearest grandmother of Matt Resnicoff, Merryl and Jay Newler, and Nancy and Andrew Schwartz. Caring
 KESTER-Leah. Formerly of Bayside, New York, died February 27 in Hershey, PA. Surviving are her husband, Allen; two sons, Dr. Mark of Harrisburg, PA and Eric of Bayside; a sister, Lillian Fink of Rochester, and two grandchildren. Burial was Sunday in Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Queens. Shiva will b
 KURTYKA-Margaret (nee Christie). Of Clifton, NJ, on February 26, 1998. Born Paterson, NJ, July 12, 1913. Beloved wife for 62 years of Henry, mother of daughter Ruthanne and son-in-law Harvey Corn and grandmother of Christie, Margaret and Olivia. She was a very special person who was dearly 
 SULZER-Essie. Age 95. Wife of the late Theodore D. Sulzer. Beloved mother of Helene Guarnaccia and Richard Sulzer. Grandmother of Peter and Steven Guarnaccia and Jill and Andrew Sulzer, and Carole Anne Friedman; greatgrandmother of Jasper, Jaime and Shara Guarnaccia and Jared Friedman. She 
 VICTOR-Anne. Loving mother of Sherry and Michele; dear grandmother of Neal and Tristan. She was a wonderful teacher and a devotee of French.       
 WINTHROP-Amory (Elizabeth). Of Millbrook, N.Y. Died Feb. 26, 1998. Daughter of Robert Winthrop and the late Theodora Ayer Randolph. Survived by her sisters Theodora Hooton and Cornelia Bonnie, and a niece and nephews. Ms. Winthrop was an accomplished horse-woman and a horse show judge. She 
 Countess Anthony Szapary, the doyenne of Newport society and the great-great-granddaughter of Cornelius Vanderbilt who lived a good part of the year on the upper floors of  the Breakers, maintaining the family's presence in the 70-room mansion built by her grandparents, died on Sunday at No
 COHEN-Ruth. On March 1, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Samuel, loving mother of Rita Miller and Dr. Bernard Cohen, and mother-inlaw of Phoebe Cohen. Cherished grandmother to Margaret, Alexander, and Dr. Nathaniel Cohen, JoAnne Miller and Nina Miller Prill. Fond great grandmother of Samuel K
 DANA-Eleanor Waters, passed away Feb. 21, 1998 in Juno Beach, Florida. She was the daughter of Rossiter Lester Waters and Katherine Wilson Morrison Waters. She graduated from the Spence School in New York City and The Katherine Gibbs Secretarial School, and later became a member of The Albe
 FELTON-Helen (nee Kessler). Widow of the late Harold W. Felton. Died February 27, 1998 in Lenox, MA. She had resided in New York City and Lakeville, CT., and was a former actress and leading lady, performing under the stage name of Helen Kingsley. Memorial service to be held at a later date
 JACOBUS-Elinor Hughes. Age 91. On February 28 at Brookhaven Memorial Hospital, Patchogue, New York. Wife of the late David D. Jacobus, she is survived by two stepsons, John H. Jacobus of New York City and Dr. David P. Jacobus of Princeton, New Jersey, five grandchildren, four great-grandchi
 SZAPARY-Sylvia S. Wife of the late Count Anthony Szapary, daughter of the late Count and Countess Laszlo Szechenyi, and beloved mother of Paul and Gladys, died suddenly on March 1, 1998. The funeral will be held on Thursday, March 5 at noon, Saint Patrick's Roman Catholic Church, State Road
 WALDMAN-Miriam, age 85, survived by her loving family, daughters Roberta (Dr. Kenneth) Bell and Elinor Waldman, Granddaughters Jessica, Carolyn (Bruce), Jessica (Shawn), and Suzanne and great-grandchildren Daniele and Jacob, pre-deceased by her beloved husband David.       
 GLAUBINGER-Mildred Srulowitz. Of Alpine, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Harry J. Srulowitz and Martin Glaubinger. Devoted mother of Susie Schneeweiss and the late Joan Tina Finkelstein and Benno Stratton. Mother-in-law of Gary Schneeweiss, Chuck Finkelstein and Joyce Stratton. Step-mother of 
 MAY-Helen P. Of Mill Neck, LI on February 28, 1998. Beloved wife of the late George W., Jr. Devoted mother of Derrice C., Douglas H., Marshall D. and the late George W., III. Cherished sister of Marshall D. Payn. Loving Nana to Elizabeth Anne. Active in her church, in her community, in her 
 REICH-Legia. Congregation Kol Ami of White Plains records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member, and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Rabbi Tom Weiner Mark Hershey, President       
 STEINBERG-Beatrice (nee Dubin). Of Forest Hills, on March 3, 1998, at 74. Attorney, wife, mother, grandmother, sister, friend and advocate for children and women, she will be deeply missed by those she left behind-Samuel, beloved husband of fifty-five years; sons, Lawrence, Paul and Richard
 ZUCK-Bayli Atamian. Born in New York City on August 29, 1994. Died of Tay-Sachs disease on February 28th, 1998, at exactly 3-1/2 years of age in Santa Barbara, California. Beloved daughter of Jeffrey and Erin Zuck and sister of Oliver. Cherished granddaughter of Richard and Helen Atamian an
 HIRSHON-Dorothy H. The life of Dorothy H. Hirshon, who passed away on January 29, will be celebrated on Thursday, March 5, at 11:30 AM in the New School's Tishman Auditorium, 66 West 12th Street. Mrs. Hirshon had been on the Boards of the New School for Social Research, Phoenix House Founda
 Augusta Braxston Baker, a spellbinding storyteller, editor and former custodian of the children's section at the New York Public Library, died on Feb. 23 at Baptist Medical Center in Columbia, S.C. A Columbia resident since 1980, she was 86 and formerly lived in St. Albans, Queens. 
 BAKER-Augusta, who died on February 22, was a great children's librarian and storyteller, and a champion of African-American culture in children's books. We are proud to have been her colleagues. Barbara Bader Jean St. Clair       
 COLTOFF-Kay. The Officers, Trustees and Staff of The Children's Aid Society join with the children of New York City and extend their heartfelt condolences and deepest sympathy to Philip Coltoff, the Society's Executive Director, and family upon the death of Kay Coltoff, beloved wife and mot
 HEINEMAN-Ruth (Kress). Age 75. She passed away peacefully in her sleep at home after a long illness born with courage and dignity. She is survived by her loving husband Bernard (Jack) Heineman, Jr. Her devoted children Deborah Heineman (Scaglione) and Ralph Scaglione, Matthew and Katherine 
 HREACHMACK-Rosemary LaSorsa, on March 4, 1998 after a courageous battle with cancer. Her spirit, love of life, humor, compassion and Christianity carries on with all the many people whose lives she has touched. Rosemary was a law firm administrator in both Delaware and New York. Beloved wif
 LODGE-Francesca. The Women's National Repubican Club mourns the passing of Francesca Lodge, wife of former Congressman, Connecticut Governor and Ambassador to Spain and Argentina, John Davis Lodge. A devoted and valued member of the WNRC Board of Governors from 1964 to 1967, she served as V
 MANASTER-Sylvia Moldaw, 76, of Queens, NY. Beloved wife of Norman Manaster. Formerly of Highland Park, IL, Brookline and Beverly, MA. Loving mother of Faye (Artur) Eldar, Joan (Scott) Ramos, and Beth Manaster. Grandmother of Maya Eldar, Lia and Jesse Ramos. Also survived by her caregiver of
 Celestine Tate Harrington, a quadriplegic street musician whose buoyant personality and unremitting chutzpah brought astounded smiles to everyone who watched her play the keyboard with her lips and tongue on Atlantic City's Boardwalk, died on Feb. 25 at the Atlantic City Medical Center. She
 BASS-Gwen. On March 5, 1998, suddenly and unexpectedly in Minneapolis, Minn. Beloved daughter of Ruth and Leon. Loving sister of Debbie. Dear cousin of Jill and Jeffrey. She will be profoundly missed by her family, friends, and colleagues. Service on Sunday 11:15 A.M., at ''The Riverside,''
 BRENNER-Goldie. On March 5, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Elias. Loving mother of Edith Everett, Gladys Praigrod and the late Fred Brenner. Adored grandmother of Frances, Sharon, David and Carolyn. Dearest great grandmother of Elias, Ethan and Hannelora. Service Sunday, 9:30AM at ''The Riv
 COLTOFF-Kay S. Died peacefully at 2:45PM on Thursday, March 5, 1998 at the age of 61. She was, to the very last moment of her life, a loving, caring, beautiful woman whose last breaths were for her husband Phil, children Julie and Peter, her grandchild Noah and her two step-children Michael
 HEINEMAN-Ruth (Kress). Age 75. She passed away peacefully in her sleep at home after a long illness borne with courage and dignity. She is survived by her loving husband Bernard (Jack) Heineman, Jr. Her devoted children Deborah Heineman (Scaglione) and Ralph Scaglione, Matthew and Katherine
 NEWMAN-Lili. A woman with a love of life, people, and a spirit of adventure who gave that gift to all who knew her. Her courage, wisdom, honesty, strength and generosity survived through those who loved her. She died peacfully on March 6, 1998 and will be mourned by many: her husband Abraha
 BRENNER-Goldie. On March 5, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Elias. Loving mother of Edith Everett, Gladys Praigrod and the late Fred Brenner. Adored grandmother of Frances, Sharon, David and Carolyn. Dearest great grandmother of Elias, Ethan and Hannelora. Service Sunday, 9:30AM at ''The Riv
 BUBA-Margret Joy Flinsch. Internationally known sculptor, aged 93, died in Black Mountain, North Carolina, February 11, 1998. She and her husband Peter, lived in her studio in New York City for many years. Her contributions to the city are on public display in fifteen locations. Among these
 COHEN-Miriam Melin (nee Jaye) on March 1, 1998, in Philadelphia. Wife of the late Dr. Julius Cohen and the late Arthur Melin. Mother of Valerie (Dr. Jack) Cutler and Samuel Melin. Sister of May Chase and the late Harry, Eli and Stanley Jaye. Grandmother of Dr. Andrew Cutler, Peter and Joy C
 FROST-Sylvia Slipyan. Age 84, a resident of Albuquerque since 1992, passed away Friday, March 6, 1998. Born in Brooklyn, NY, April 10, 1913, where she spent her early years. She was preceded in death by her first husband Dr. Alvin Slipyan, who practiced medicine in Queens, NY, and by her so
 GARFIELD-Barbara Munson, 85, died at her home in Sarasota, FL, Feb. 20, 1998. Widow of Edward Garfield, former Manhattan attorney. Mother of Gail Garfield Schwartz of Mamaroneck, New York, Susan Garfield of Oakland, CA, Wendy G. Palliser of London, England. Grandmother of five and great-gra
 HABER-Fannie. The entire ORT world mourns the passing of Fannie Haber of Ann Arbor, MI., wife of the late Dr. William Haber, a past president of both American ORT and World ORT. She would have been 99 years old later this month. She was, in her own quiet way, most helpful to ORT as she visi
 HEINEMAN-Ruth (Kress). Age 75, passed away peacefully in her sleep, at home, after a long illness borne with courage and dignity. She is survived by her loving husband Bernard (Jack) Heineman, Jr, her devoted chiildren Deb and Ralph, Matt and Katie, Steve and Kathy and by her six adoring gr
 HOROWITZ BATZ-Muriel. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Muriel Horowitz Batz, a very generous supporter who embraced Tzedakah through her passionate commitment to the Jewish community. She was a Lion of Judah contributor, and a bel
 MARKHAM-Linda (Conant). 64, of Barnstable, MA, died March 5 of lung cancer. Born in NYC, she lived with her lifelong friend and husband Emerson in Chappaqua and Bronxville, NY before moving to Cape Cod in 1994. Also surviving are her two children, Leslie and Jeffrey and three grandchildren,
 PETERS-Jane. On March 6, 1998. Widow of the late C. Brooks Peters and known to many and Dr. Jane Farley Templeton. Jane received a doctorate in psychology at the University of Chicago in an era when few women had such credentials, and she was awarded a National Institutes of Mental Health g
 SEDGWICK-Fannie P. Of 2500 Q Street, NW, Washington, D.C., died unexpectedly, Thursday, February 26, 1998 at her apartment. She was 66. During her life Ms. Sedgwick worked for a variety of public and not-for-profit organizations, including the Peace Corps, NYC Planning Commission, the NYC H
 SILLS-Polly Strong. At 79 on March 2, 1998. Beloved wife of Morton, mother of Rockwell and Charles Tenney. Daughter of the Society of Mayflower Decendents, Patron of the Brecht Forum, she will be in our hearts forever. Memorial service in Cold Spring Harbor, 72 Shore Rd., April 19 at noon. 
 WASSERMAN - Miriam. The Board of Directors, council, staff and friends of the Hudson Guild note, with deep sorrow, the passing of our generous and devoted friend. A member of the Board of Trustees from 1962 to 1998, Mrs. Wasserman showed her devotion to the Guild in countless ways. Her comm
 Leonie Rysanek, the Austrian dramatic soprano whose illustrious international career spanned nearly 40 years, died on Saturday at a hospital in Vienna, the city of her birth, where she lived all her life. She was 71. She had been battling bone cancer, according to Peter S. Diggins, 
 BERKOWITZ-Fannie. Age 89. March 8, 1998, at North Shore Hospital, Manhasset, NY. Wife of the late Joseph Berkowitz. Beloved mother of Rita and Moe Pasternack and Alan and Carol Berkowitz. Adored grandmother of Barry and Andrew Berkowitz, Gail and Joel Leder, Jan and Fern Pasternack, Barry a
 BRENNER-Goldie. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of the mother of Edith Everett, a cherished member of our extended family. Edith, together with her husband Henry, a valued member of our Board of Directors and its Executive Committee, are Chai Founders and have established a major sch
 GOLDSTEIN-Sylvia. Of Miami Beach, FL, and New York City, passed away March 6, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Abraham, loving mother of Jonathan (Jennifer), and a devoted sister of Ralph (Sandra) Holod and Phyllis Holod. Graveside services Monday, March 9, at 1:30 PM, at Cedar Park Cemetery,
 HEINEMAN-Ruth (Kress). Age 75, passed away peacefully in her sleep, at home, after a long illness borne with courage and dignity. She is survived by her loving husband Bernard (Jack) Heineman, Jr, her devoted chiildren Deb and Ralph, Matt and Katie, Steve and Kathy and by her six adoring gr
 HERTZ-Helen. Age 91, beloved mother of Leona Duffy and Martin J. Hertz; mother-in-law of Judith M. Hertz. Grandmother of Marian Sue Keltz, Ricki Martin Kline and Herbert Ray. Greatgrandmother of Daniel Keltz, David Keltz, Liana Ray, Melina Kline and Harry Kline. Funeral services at Frank E.
 WITTEN-Cora. We mourn the loss of our beloved Cora. She was always ''up'' and found humor despite life's adversities. Condolences to her family. The Sandpiper at Westhampton Beach, Inc. Judy Rosenblum, President       
 Laurie Beechman, the throbbing-voiced singer and actress who played Grizabella in the Broadway musical ''Cats'' for more than five years, died on Sunday at her home in White Plains, N.Y. She was 44. The cause was complications from ovarian cancer, said her agent and friend, Jim Wilh
 BEECHMAN-Laurie. She has been a special and extraordinary friend over the years. Our deepest sympathy to Neil, Dolly, Nat, Claudia, Jane and the rest of the family. Warren, Sally and Amanda Baker       
 BOSIN-Shirley. Tifereth IsraelTown and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and past Sisterhood president and extends its heartfelt condolences to her husband George and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Fred Karp, President       
 BRENNER-Goldie. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Goldie Brenner, beloved mother of Edith Everett, a cherished philanthropist and humanitarian. Edith and her husband, Henry J. Everett, are distinguished members of our Board of Directors. The
 HEINEMAN-Ruth (Kress). Age 75, passed away peacefully in her sleep, at home, after a long illness borne with courage and dignity. She is survived by her loving husband Bernard (Jack) Heineman, Jr, her devoted chiildren Deb and Ralph, Matt and Katie, Steve and Kathy and by her six adoring gr
 KAPLAN-Lillian. On March 9, 1998 in Delray Beach, Florida. Beloved wife of Herman Kaplan. Loving mother of Rhoda Schachter, Annette Littman, and Carol Gardner. Dear sister of Moe Goldner, Helen Feldman, Sidney Goldner and Raymond Goldner. Cherished grandmother of Ilene Mirkine, Lauren Crand
 MILLER-Ann R., Mar. 6. Survived by her beloved friend Phyllis Austopchuk and her sister-in-law Joan Miller. We will miss her dearly.       
 PELTZ-Margaret A. Wife of Dr. William L. Peltz died on January 23, 1998 on Martha's Vineyard. Her memorial service will be held at the Federated Church in Edgartown, MA. at 1PM on March 28th.       
 RYSANEK-Leonie. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of one of our most highly-revered and deeply-loved artists, Leonie Rysanek. A thrilling and moving performer, she seared her roles into our memories with her glorious, gleaming soprano and heartstopping dramatic intensity. From her tri
 WASSERMAN - Miriam. The Board of Governors and members of Sunningdale Country Club are deeply saddened by the death of our esteemed member, Miriam Wasserman. We extend our deepest sympathy to her entire family. William Ettelson, President Michael Roth, Secretary       
 Eleanor Shuman, who was too young to remember more than the screams but recalled them vividly for more than 85 years, died on Saturday at a hospital near her home in Elgin, Ill. She was 87 and one of the last half-dozen survivors of the sinking of the Titanic. Mrs. Shuman, whose ori
 ANDREWS-Philadelphia Masters Carpenter, 76, of Cambridge, Massachusetts, died of complications of cancer on March 7, 1998. Born in Fargo, N.D., she was a graduate of Radcliffe College, of which she was an active alumna. She was active also in civic and community affairs until her death. She
 BASS-Mae (Miller). On March 10th, 1998. Widow of Harry Bass. Survived by sisters, nieces and nephews. She will be missed.       
 BEECHMAN-Laurie. The brilliance of her voice and the beauty of her soul will be forever cherished by those of us who were blessed to have known her. Janis and Alan Menken BEECHMAN-Laurie. A wonderful talent and a lovely lady. Our deepest sympathy to Neil and family. Martin Richards,
 BRENNER-Goldie. The Board of The New York Botanical Garden offers condolences to Edith Everett, a generous friend to the children of New York, and her husband Henry, our esteemed Board member, and their family, on the passing of her mother Goldie Brenner. Thomas J. Hubbard, Chairman Gregory
 DOUBILET-Florence Baerwald ''Bobbie''. Died peacefully in her home in Elberon, New Jersey, in her 82nd year, after a brave battle with cancer. She will be missed by her family and friends and the entire golfing community. She is survived by her daughter, Jane Kramer, and her son David Doubi
 FREEDMAN-Helene Yeshilian. Died Tuesday, March 10, 1998 at home in Montclair, New Jersey, after facing acute leukemia with great courage and fortitude for nearly three years. She was born in Chelsea, Mass., October 5, 1939, the daughter of Martin Yeshilian and Flora Harvey Yeshilian. She at
 ISRAEL - Rosa. The Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design and the Board of Directors of the Friends of Bezalel express profound sympathy to our esteemed founders Romie and Blanche Shapiro on the death of his sister, Rosa Israel, London, England. An Aishet Chayil, she was devoted to her family a
 KREIG-Margaret Baltzell McAfee. On January 12, 1998, in her home of cancer. Survived by loving mother, Gladys Jennings, sons, Ray, Andrew, and Lawrence, sister Frances, husband William. Memorial service will be held at Fort Myer Chapel, on March 13th, at 10 A.M. Interment at Arlington Natio
 MESNIKOFF-Wendy. Of Hastings on Hudson, NY. Beloved wife of Alvin. Devoted mother and mother-in-law of Nathaniel (deceased), Rachel and Steven, Joel, and Ann and Howard. Cherished grandmother of Jeremy, Aaron, Jacob and Sheina. Wendy received her M.A. in Human Development from the Universit
 MILLER-Annabelle, age 95. A lifelong resident of Port Chester, N.Y. died Tuesday, March 10, 1996. She was the daughter of the late David and Etta Silver Miller. She was a graduate of Port Chester High School and Merrill Business School. She was an Executive Legal Secretary for the law firm 
 MURPHY-Mary L. Of West Hempstead, NY, on March 7, 1998. She was involved in various organizations in the community and very active with the Democratic Party for more than fifty years. She held the position of Leader of the 18th Assembly District. For information, call Carl C. Burnett Funera
 ROBBINS-Selma, 76. Of Singer Island, FL, passed away Sunday in West Palm Beach, FL. Survived by her loving husband Norman. Beloved mother of Curtis, Leslie, Rochelle Newman and Merrill Rachowin. Devoted grandmother of Benjamin, Lindsay, Rebecca, Blake and Todd. Graveside services Fri., Mar.
 WHITE-Elizabeth M., 83. Of Hilton Head Island and formerly of Darien died on Saturday, March 7th, at the Hilton Head Medical Center and Clinics. She was born in Pittsburgh, PA and was the daughter of the late J.D. and Elizabeth Schillenberg McGinnis. She moved to Hilton Head Island in 1997 
 BING-Ilse. Konrad and Ilse. Precious lives. We loved her photographs. She loved roses. We shall miss them. Cornell Capa, Founder Willis Hartshorn, Director International Center of Photography       
 COHEN-Raphael. The Officers and Directors of The Mental Health Association of New York City, Inc., note with sorrow the passing of Raphael Cohen, father of our esteemed Executive Director Giselle Stolper. We offer her mother Frances and her family our heartfelt condolences.       
 COLIE-Elizabeth S. Of Haverford, PA, formerly of South Orange, NJ, on March 9, 1998, at the age of 84 after a short illness. Graduate of Bryn Mawr, Class of 1935, and retired teacher from The Chapin School in New York, she is survived by her sister-in-law Frances Colie of Mystic, CT, and he
 COLODNY-Dorothy S., 92. Of Longboat Key, Florida, died on March 9, 1998 in Sarasota, Florida. She was born on August 26, 1905 in Philadelphia, PA. She moved to Florida thirty years ago from Bronxville, NY. She is survived by 2 sons; Mark J. Colodny of Boca Raton, FL., and Peter I. Colodny o
 DOUBILET-Bobbie. The Elberon Voters and Property Owners Association mourns the loss of Bobbie Doubilet, a member of our Board of Trustees and Executive Committee for more years than any living member can recall. Her death deprives our Association and community of a respected and clear voice
 FORNERO-Leo. On March 11, 1998, of Springfield, NJ. Husband of Kathleen McGrath and the late Barbara Fornero. Father of Pamela and her husband Robert Kulesh and Timothy Fornero. Survived by four step-children and four step-grandchildren. Funeral Mass at St. Teresa of Avila Church, Summit, S
 GRUBER-Trude. The Division of Social Work & Behavorial Science of the Department of Community and Preventive Medicine of The Mount Sinai School of Medicine, and the Social Work Department of The Mount Sinai Hospital note with deep sadness the passing of our valued colleague, Trude Gruber. M
 LEEDS-Janet. To the most wonderful mother and grandmother, you will always be in our hearts and our thoughts. We will miss you and always love you. Steven, Sheri, Jessica, Danielle and Zachary LEEDS-Janet (Cissy). A lover of life, she passed away with courage and dignity. Our belove
 MILLIRON-Sheila M., 55. Died Tuesday evening at home. Born October 29, 1942 in New York City, daughter of late Dr. William and Anne O'Dea Horan. Graduate St. Mary's High School, Manhasset, NY. Received B.A. in Home Economics, Marywood University in Scranton, Pennsylvania. Taught school in S
 ARONZON-Regine. On March 11, 1998. Beloved mother of Daniel and Nancy Aronzon, Nina Aronzon and Karl Rizzo. Grandmother of Denise, Nicole and Stephanie Aronzon, and Adam Rizzo. Services Friday, 11am at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. ARONZON-Regine. The Village Temple 
 CANFIELD-Hope Brown. The Trustees of St. Andrew's Dune Church mourn the death of Hope Brown Canfield, beloved and wonderful wife of our Trustee of 21 years and Trustee Emeritus, Franklin O. Canfield. We look forward to rejoicing in the gift of her life and praying for her soul at a memorial
 COLODNY-Dorothy. The Board of Governors and Members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime former member, Dorothy Colodny and extend to the members of her family our sincere condolences. Joel Langer, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary       
 FLEISCHER-Molly W., age 85, died peacefully on March 10, 1998 after a brief illness. Born in Hartford, CT, Mrs. Fleischer was the beloved mother of Robert S. Fleischer of NY and Susan Axelrod of Atlanta, special mother-in-law of Susan Raanan and Larry Axelrod, and deeply loved grandmother o
 HAMERSHLAG-Stella Duff. On March 10. She was an actor and painter, loved her garden, people and her dogs. In lieu of flowers donations may be made to Jacob Perlow Hospice or Beth Israel Medical Center North. Memorial Friday March 20, 4-7 p.m. at home.       
 LEEDS-Janet. To the most wonderful mother and grandmother, you will always be in our hearts and our thoughts. We will miss you and always love you. Steven, Sheri, Jessica, Danielle and Zachary LEEDS-Janet. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of The American Friends of The Heb
 SCHUR-Dr. Helen (Kraus). On March 11. Wife of the late Max; mother of Dr. Peter Schur and Eva Milofsky; survived by four grand and 3 great grandchildren. Services on Friday, 9:45 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in her memory may be made to the James W
 USSAK-Eileen. Seventy-eight, of West Davenport, NY. Died on Wed., March 11, 1998 at the A.O. Fox Memorial Hospital, Oneonta, NY. She was born Dec. 24, 1919 in Norwich England, the daughter of Max and Louise (Lang) Brenner. Eileen married Robert Ussak Feb. 4, 1945, in Norwich England. She is
 Beatrice Wood, a ceramic artist known as much for her irreverent quips, beauty, bohemian life style and famous lovers as for her luminous luster-glaze chalices, and who  inspired at least two movie characters, died on Thursday at her home in Ojai, Calif. She had celebrated her 105th birthda
 ASHNER-Iva Kaplan, 54. New York City and Provincetown, MA. After a long illness bravely born, displaying nobility and unusual courage in difficult times. Beloved wife of Leon D. Ashner. Precious daughter of Eleanor and Nathan Kaplan, Pittsfield, MA. Dear sister of David Kaplan. Darling niec
 BOWMAN-Ethel L. Widow of Supreme Court Justice Amos E. Bowman and mother of Supreme Court Justice Janice L. Bowman, passed away peacefully in her sleep on March 12, 1998. Viewing Benta Funeral Home, 630 St. Nicholas Avenue at 141st Street, on Sunday, March 15, 4-6 PM. Funeral St. Philip's E
 BRENNER-Goldie. The Trustees of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art mourn the passing of Goldie Brenner. Our sincere sympathies to her daughters Edith Everett and Gladys Praigard. Uzi Zucker, Chairman Professor Mordechai Omer, Director and Chief Curator Tel Aviv Museum of Art
 COHEN-Mollie L. On March 13, after a brilliant 17year battle against breast cancer. Mollie was a woman of rare wisdom, good-naturedness, inner strength and caring, always patient and forbearing and always concerned about the other person. Her example is almost impossible to match. She is su
 CORBETT-Amy (nee Seinknect). Aged 86, of Sarasota, Florida, died Mar. 12. Former longtime resident of East Williston and Huletts Landing, NY, she attended NYC School of Design and was an artist and homemaker. She is survived by her husband of 62 years James D. Corbett, two daughters Martha 
 EHRLICH-Marsha. Camp Greylock mourns the passing of Marsha Ehrlich and sends deepest sympathy to her husband Bernard and her beloved family.       
 LEEDS-Janet. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends extend sincerest condolences to Mrs. Diane Belfer upon the loss of her beloved sister Janet Leeds. Diane has been a generous benefactress of Bar-Ilan University and of many other important Jewish causes. We pray that she wi
 RAPHAEL-Irma. On March 13, 1998. A loving, kind and generous person-and very special to all who knew her. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Devoted mother of the late Walter. She is survived by her granddaughter Robin Hemmingsen and great-grandchildren Anders Arthur and Emma Lindgren, sister
 SCHUR-Helen, M.D., former Medical Director of the James Weldon Johnson Counseling Center of Union Settlement Association. Loved and respected by her staff and disciples, grateful for the many, many years of devoted service to the East Harlem community. An outstanding clinician and teacher, 
 Ilse Bing, one of the few surviving members of the fabled group of avant-garde artists who gathered in Paris in the early 1930's and produced brilliantly unorthodox and inventive photography, died Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 98 and lived on the Uppe
 Jeanette Wakin, an expert in the arcane world of medieval Islamic law, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 69 and a senior lecturer at Columbia University, where she had long been a mainstay in the department of Middle East and Asia Language and Culture. Her family said t
 ASHNER-Iva Kaplan, 54. New York City and Provincetown, MA. After a long illness bravely borne, displaying nobility and unusual courage in difficult times. Beloved wife of Leon D. Ashner. Precious daughter of Eleanor and Nathan Kaplan, Pittsfield, MA. Dear sister of David Kaplan. Darling nie
 BERNSTEIN-May C. Age 88. Died in the loving arms of her beloved family after a valiant fight. Loving wife of the late Henry. Cherished mother of Barbara and Norman Libman. Adored grandmother to David, Peter and Michele. A very special Aunt May to Carol and Joel Sheinbaum and Jerry Cohen. Sh
 BONOM-Clarice J. On March 10, 1998, in Lauderhill, FL. Wife of Samuel (deceased); beloved mother of Neil and Miles, loved by her daughters-in-law Maryanne and Sandy and granddaughters Samantha and Sydney. Services at Riverside Chapel, 312 Coney Island Avenue, Brooklyn, March 16 2 PM. Donati
 BOWMAN-Ethel L. Widow of Supreme Court Justice Amos E. Bowman and mother of Supreme Court Justice Janice L. Bowman, passed away peacefully in her sleep on March 12, 1998. Viewing Benta Funeral Home, 630 St. Nicholas Avenue at 141st Street, on Sunday, March 15, 4-6 PM. Funeral St. Philip's E
 COHEN-Mollie L. On March 13, after a brilliant 17year battle against breast cancer. Mollie was a woman of rare wisdom, good-naturedness, inner strength and caring, always patient and forbearing and always concerned about the other person. Her example is almost impossible to match. She is su
 DAMPSEY-Helen R. Age 91, died on March 8, 1998, in Carmel, NY. She was a gifted musician who played the piano around the world. A memorial gathering will be held at her home in April. For information, contact Beecher Funeral Home in Brewster, NY.       
 DRUCE-Leslie. March 13, 1998. Beloved sister of Jeffry Druce. Dear friend of Lyn Meehan. Her generosity, sense of humor and wonderful love of life will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Funeral private.       
 FRAZIER-Frances. Of New York City. On March 10, 1998. Beloved to all who knew her. A non denominational memorial service will be held at West End Synagogue, 69th Street and Amsterdam Ave, NYC, 1 PM, Sunday, March 22, 1998. In lieu of flowers, contributions to Beth Israel Medical Center in M
 KLEINMAN-Bess, 89, formerly of New York and Los Angeles, spent her last years in Kibbutz Saar, Israel; died peacefully in her sleep on November 14, 1997. Survived by husband George; daughter, Nora and husband Rafi; son, Danny and wife, Nicole; grandchildren Ariel, Naava, Itai, Stephanie.   
 SILLS-Polly Strong. At seventy-nine, on March 2, 1998. Beloved wife of Morton, mother of Rockwell and Charles Tenney. Daughter of the Society of Mayflower Descendants, Patron of the Brecht Forum, she will be in our hearts forever. Memorial service in Cold Spring Harbor, 72 Shore Road, on Ap
 WERTER-Muriel. Devoted wife of Nathan M.D. Dear mother of Ronni, Allen, and James; grandmother; dear friend to all who knew her. Passed away on March 11th. in St. Joseph's Hospital. She will always be a bearer of love and kindness.       
 Ruth Forbes Young, who founded the International Peace Academy, an organization that trains negotiators, diplomats and military personnel in peacekeeping and provides meeting grounds for diplomats involved in efforts to prevent hostilities, died on March 5 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. Sh
 Jeanette Wakin, an expert in the arcane world of medieval Islamic law, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 69 and was a senior lecturer at Columbia University, where she had long been a mainstay in the department of Middle Eastern and Asian language and culture. Her famil
 CAMPBELL-Sister Antoine. The entire Marymount School community mourns the death of Sister Antoine Campbell, RSHM, a beloved educator and friend. She served our students, parents and alumnae for more than 40 years as a dedicated Teacher of Latin and speech, Headmistress, and Director Alumnae
 CAPONE-Theresa (Tess). On March 14, 1998. Dearest wife of Dino. Sister of Mary Elizabeth Garren and her niece Janet of El Cajon, CA. Rest in peace. Reposing Albert R. Conner-Colonial Funeral Home, 4955 Broadway (at West 207th St), Tuesday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial, St. Eliza
 CLARK-Susanne Williams. Born July 21, 1935, in Kansas City, MO. Died peacefully after a courageous battle with esophageal cancer at Calvary Hospital on Friday, March 13. She graduated from Randolph-Macon Women's College in Lynchburg, VA in 1957. Since then she has lived in Manhattan where s
 MOSKOWITZ-Pauline. 90. Loving wife of the late Jack Moskowitz. Devoted mother of Eugene Morse, wife Gladys, Sherril Ambinder Sussman, husband Jay, Seymour Morse, Sue Ross, husband Dr. Sonny Ross. Dearest sister of Edna Sweder, brother-in-law Dr. William Sweder, sister-in-law of Rae Greenber
 SMEAL-Mary Jean. The National Center for Disability Services mourns the passing of Mary Jean Smeal, a much respected supporter of programs for people with disabilities. Her efforts leave a lasting legacy that will improve the lives of countless future generations. The National Center for Di
 WAKIN-Jeanette Ann. On March 13, 1998, at 69. Professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies at Columbia University and renowned expert on Islamic law. Dedicated to her field, to scholarship, to her students, to her friends, she gave unstintingly to all. Those who knew her were touched by her warm
 Elizabeth Barnes, a volunteer for national organizations including the Y.W.C.A. and National Council of Negro Women, died on Thursday at the Health Clinic of Westminster Shores in St. Petersburg, Fla. She was 90 and a resident of St. Petersburg. Mrs. Barnes, who had been a resident 
 Marianne Burge, the first woman to become a partner in the accounting firm of Price Waterhouse, died Feb. 25 at Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 64. The cause of death was cancer, Price Waterhouse said. Mrs. Burge joined the firm as a tax consultant in 1966 and became 
 BRODER-Adele Kittredge Broder. Of Short Hills, New Jersey, on Monday, March 16, 1998; beloved wife of Robert H. Broder; loving mother of Michael K. and Mary Lee Broder of Dallas, Texas, Thomas K. Broder of Hoboken and James K. Broder of NYC; adoring grandmother of Katherine K. and Brian H. 
 FRIEDMAN-Lorraine. A void has been created in our hearts with the untimely loss of our past President and dear friend. Lorraine shared with us her unparalleled zest for life, unflagging optimism, radiant charm, and warm sense of humor. Her kindness and generosity towards others was boundles
 GOLD-Dorothy. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Sidney Freedman, President       
 LINDENBAUM-Anne (Zeiger). On March 15, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Sidney, loving sister of Jeanne Schoenberg and Bernice Robinson, dear sister-in-law of Gertrude Lehrhaupt and Elsie Novick. Loved by all whose lives she touched. Service on Wednesday at 12 P.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76 S
 MOESER-Ursula. Died March 14, 1998, after a short illness. A cultured lady, always cheerful, who will be much missed by her many friends in her Seaford and Massapequa communities, and also by her Church community of our Redeemer Lutheran Church. She was a Scientific Translator who spoke man
 NOVECK-Carolyn Schnurer. Mrs. Noveck, of Palm Beach, Florida died in Palm Beach on Sunday, March 15, 1998 with her son, Tony, at her bedside. Mrs. Noveck was born and educated in New York City, and moved to Palm Beach over twenty years ago. In New York, she taught at New York University and
 POLONSKY-Henrietta. On March 11, 1998 died peacefully at her home in West Palm Beach, Florida at the age of 89. Survived by her husband Nathan, her sister-inlaw Ruth Blume of Plainview, N.Y. and ten loving nieces and nephews. Tenderly cared for by Chris and Beata Skowronski. Formerly of 283
 SMEAL-Mary Jean. On Thursday, March 12th, Mary Jean Smeal went home to a loving God. The 'music of her years' was a most splendid symphony of caring. Long ago, with her beloved Frank by her side, she responded to the Pauline invitation to the Corinthians-of-old: ''. . .but the greatest of t
 WAKIN-Jeanette. The Arabic Seminar of Columbia University expresses its profound grief at the passing of its Chair, Jeanette Wakin, and extends condolences to her family. It was a great honor to be associated with her and she will always be remembered with respect and affection.       
 Anne Sayre, a short story writer turned scientific sleuth who helped establish the important role played by the British crystallographer Rosalind Franklin in the discovery of the structure of DNA, died on Friday at a hospital near her home in Bridgewater, N.J. She was 74 and the author of t
 BEER-Alice S. Of Coral Springs, FL. Passed away Monday, March 16. Alice is survived by her husband Burt, two sons Alan and wife Jamie, and Jeremy and wife Amy; grandson Bradley; brother Robert and wife Judy Samet; sister Jane Samet; sister-in-law Sara Beer and nieces and nephews. Funeral se
 BRODER-Adele Kittredge Broder. Of Short Hills, N.J., on Monday, March 16, 1998, beloved wife of Robert H. Broder, loving mother of Michael K. and Mary Lee Broder of Dallas, Texas, Thomas K. Broder of Hoboken and James K. Broder of NYC, adoring grandmother of Katherine K. and Brian H. Broder
 HENDERSON-Jane, nee Movery, 87. Died Mar. 16, 1998 at Chandler Hall Nursing Home, Newtown, PA. Beloved mother of Ward Thomas Henderson of NYC and Richard Clark Henderson of Baltimore, MD. Predeceased by her husband, Thomas Wayne Henderson. Service on March 20, at 11 A.M., St. Andrew's Churc
 WARD-Virginia B. Retired Manager for American Airlines died March 16, 1998 in Sloan-Kettering, NYC. Her career with American began in 1944. She trained reservations agents when computers were introduced. She retired in 1974. She graduated from the University of Michigan with a B.A. in Music
 WEAVER-Dorothy Dobbs. January 12, 1932 - March 14, 1998. Emmy award-winning costume designer. Owner and proprietor of Source III Theatrical Costumes. Member United Scenic Artists since 1970. We mourn the loss of our beloved Dotty, our truly beautiful friend. Her elegance, kindness, wit and 
 WOLFSON-Ellen. On Tuesday March 17, 1998 at age 73. Survived by her husband Irving, daughter Nora, son Adam and sister Marlies. We miss her, and she will be with us always. Funeral services at Kol Ami Chapel in the Woods, Soundview Avenue, White Plains, New York, on Wednesday, March 18 at 1
 ROSE-Maud. Honoring the memory of this remarkable woman on her one hundredth birthday. Her family; Adele, Belinda, Allison, Bret, Derek, Daphne, Taryn, Jed       
 AMBINDER-Rose (nee Talianoff). On March 18, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Nathan Ambinder, M.D., dearest mother of Edward, Lynn and Roy, cherished grandmother of Evan, Jennifer, Amanda, Julie, Marc, Michael, Eric and Jessica; devoted sister to Augusta and Laura, and her late brothers, Davi
 BRINCKERHOFF-Florence Andreen. Born on August 27, 1904, died on March 17, 1998 at her home in New York City after a long illness. Widow of Charles M. Brinckerhoff who was a recipient of the Hoover Medal and CEO of Anaconda Copper Mining Company. Private family service at Greenfield Cemetery
 CHERNOFSKY-Ruth. The Leadership of EMUNAH of America mourns the untimely loss of its Honorary National President, Ruth Chernofsky. Her devotion and philanthropic endeavors enabled our organization to expand its network of educational facilities which enriched the lives of thousands of child
 COHEN-Joyce Arnoff. Beloved wife of Murray; devoted mother to Holly, Tom and Amy; loving mother-in-law to Richard Osman and Elisa Singer; adored grandmother to Sarah, Eric, Jessie and Eli. Died peacefully on March 18, 1998 after a long and valiant fight from a brain tumor. Joyce dedicated h
 GIBELL-Jeanette. March 17, 1998, in Stamford, CT. Beloved wife of the late Charles. Loving sister of the late Joseph Yarchower. Cherished aunt of Harriet and Stan Simon and Karil Daniels, devoted great-aunt of Emily and Jessica. Proud member of the Monderer/ Ebner family. Born and educated 
 KAUFMAN-Martin. Loving father of Ellin and Samuel Heilman, Gail and Jeffrey Summit, Mark and Sarah Kaufman. Adoring grandfather to Adam, Uriel, Avi, Yoni, Aleza, Ariela, Zachary, David and Daniel. Beloved companion of Bunny Rosenberg and beloved friend to her children, Steven and Robin. Ser
 MEGGS-Marjorie (Reid). Died on March 12, 1998 at her home in Scarsdale, N.Y. after a long illness, she was 77. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y. Mrs. Meggs was an accomplished concert pianist, having studied at the Brooklyn Conservatory of Music. During the 1940's, she gave numerous piano recitals and
 MILLS-Elizabeth L. The Kildonan School Board of Trustees, faculty, staff, students and alumni mourn the passing of our friend, colleague and Chairman of the Board, Elizabeth L. Mills. Her dedication, generosity, kindness and warm sense of humor will be deeply missed. We express our profound
 RAZE-Ruth (nee Klyde). Died on March 17 after a long battle with Alzheimer's. Loving wife of David for 64 years, devoted mother of the late Joseph, grandmother of Jennifer Adams and Laura Williams, great-grandmother of Dylan and Hayden Adams, dear mother-in-law of Carole Friedman. Services 
 SCHWEIGER-Dorothy. With great sadness we mourn the passing of Dorothy Schweiger, beloved wife of Erwin. We share his loss and extend sincerest sympathies. Dorothy, always her book in hand, her wit, and smile graced our premises every summer day. Her active drive for charities like Westhampt
 WILSON-Florence. Wife of the late Harold Wilson. Mother of Herbert, Fred and the late Irving Wilson. Grandmother and greatgrandmother. Graveside services, Thursday, March 19, 1998 at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery at 1 P.M. WILSON-Florence. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend 
 Rose Steinberg Stamler, a pioneer in the prevention and treatment of high blood pressure and a professor emeritus of preventive medicine at the Northwestern University Medical School, died on Feb. 28 at Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Arizona. She was 75 and lived in Chicago. The ca
 Esther Bubley, a documentary photographer who was noted for her sober, no-frills portrayal of post-World War II middle America, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her niece, Jean Bubley. In the la
 Nena Manach Goodman, an artist, patron of the arts and philanthropist, died yesterday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. She was 88 and lived in Rye, N.Y. Mrs. Goodman was the widow of Andrew Goodman, owner and chairman of Bergdorf Goodman in the 1950's and 60's. Mr. Goodman, 
 COHEN-Joyce Arnoff. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member Joyce Arnoff Cohen. Joyce was not only a Founder of Or Zarua, but a constant inspiration for our growth and progress. A woman of extraordinary charm and sublime courage, Joyce was a perpetual student, dedicating her li
 DRESSLER-Reba. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Dressler, passed away on March 18th. Cherished and devoted mother of Leonard and Juliette Dressler and Phyllis and Efrom Lebow, and dear sister of Mortimer Chrein. She was adored by her grandchildren and great grandchildren. We will all miss he
 DRUCKMAN-Hannah. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Loving mother of Eleanor, William and the late Barbara. Adoring grandmother of David Lerner and Emily Druckman. Cherished sister of Judith Weber and Arthur Abraham. Devoted aunt and loving friend. Service Sun, 12:15 at ''The Riverside'', 76 
 FLAATA-Mary. The Auxiliary of Lenox Hill Hospital notes with sadness the loss of our longtime member and dedicated volunteer. The entire Lenox Hill Hospital community will sorely miss her. The Auxiliary of Lenox Hill Hospital       
 GERSON-Dorothy (Dossie). Formerly of Closter, New Jersey, on March 18, 1998. Beloved wife of Sy. Devoted mother of Betsy Densen and Anthony Gerson. Adoring grandmother of Matthew and David Densen, and April Gerson. At her request, there will be no funeral. Friends are invited to visit on Su
 GOODMAN-Nena. On March 19, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Andrew Goodman. Devoted mother of Vivien G. Malloy, Mary Ann Quinson, Edwin A. Goodman and Pamela Lichty. Loving grandmother of Andrew T., Deborah Malloy Winkler, Kenneth H., Mark L. and Vivien C. Malloy; Geoffrey, Luke, Adam and Jos
 JOSEPH-Ruth V., M.D. Beloved mother, dear sister. Devoted grandmother of Peter and Michael. Dedicated physcian over 60 years. A one of a kind woman, ahead of her time. Rest in Peace       
 LEWIS-Estelle. On March 19, 1998 in Hollywood, FL. Beloved mother of Linda Lindenbaum. Adored grandmother of Erica Tishman and Laurie Lindenbaum Horne, loving great-grandmother of Adam, Stuart and Julia Tishman and Sarah Horne. Contributions in her memory may be made to the American Cancer 
 LIPSIG-Carrie. Died at age 91, March 15, in Coconut Creek, FL. Beloved mother of Dr. Stephen and Susan Lipsig of Roslyn Estates, and Joseph and Maryann Lipsig of Sunnyvale, California. Adored grandmother of Diana, David and Scott. Sister of Sara Edelson of FL. Former Director of Food Servic
 LOW-Elaine Y. Bellmore, New York. March 14, 1998. Beloved and loving wife of Martin, mother of Douglas and Steven, grandmother of Veronica, sister of Harriet, aunt of Suzanne, Adam and Jeffrey. She will be missed be her many friends in and around Bellmore, New York and Delray Beach, FL. All
 MILLER-Josephine. The Sanders, Katz and Fischl families of Midwood, Brooklyn, note with deep sadness the passing of our close friend, Josephine. Her warmth and good humor will be missed by all of us, and we send our sincerest condolences to her family.       
 MILLS-Elizabeth L. The Kildonan School Board of Trustees, faculty, staff, students and alumni mourn the passing of our friend, colleague and Chairman of the Board, Elizabeth L. Mills. Her dedication, generosity, kindness and warm sense of humor will be deeply missed. We express our profound
 POCZIK-Regina. It is with tears and profound sorrow that we mark the passing of Reggie, our first class lady, whose warmth, devotion to her family, dignity, grace and courage throughout, made all of us who knew her feel special and realize she was special. What she imparted to each of us wi
 REED-Mary Archer Lord (Polly), Of Bedford, MA, formerly of Stonington, CT and NYC, March 13, 1998. Loving mother of Abijah of Putney, VT, Anne (Prager) of Sarasota, FL, and Bill of Concord, MA. Also a devoted aunt, grandmother, great grandmother, and friend of countless people who loved her
 ROGOW-Selma Prince (nee Schlesinger), 89. Formerly of Fort Lee, died March 18 at the Allendale Nursing Home where she was a resident this past year. Mrs. Rogow was a member of Congregation Sons of Israel, Leonia. She is survived by her daughters and sons-in-law, Tara and Warren Goldman of R
 SCHWARTZ-Hilda G. Retired Supreme Court Justice on Mar. 18, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Herman N. Schwartz. Loving mother of John M. Schwartz. Devoted sister of Edith Smolen and the late Rose Weisman, Dr. Joseph A. Gaines and Mary Princer. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 WALDRON-Marie Cooper. March 16, 1998, age 95. Lover of books, dance, art, antiques, animals and life from Greenwich Village to Woodstock, NY. Gentle, steadfast and fair-minded friend to many generations, she'll be missed by all who knew her.       
 WRIGHT-Gertrude Aspell, 89. Of Delray Beach, FL and Edgartown MA. Died March 14, 1998. Widow of Frank C. Wright, Jr., she leaves two daughters, Gill of Perrysburg, OH., Gail of NY and Middleburg, VA., and two grandchildren.       
 The Dowager Countess of Enniskillen, formerly Nancy MacLennon, an American journalist and consular officer, died on Feb. 24 at Kinloch House, her home in Amulree, Perthshire, north of Edinburgh. She was 80. Lady Enniskillen started a newspaper career in her native Bridgeport, Conn. 
 CHASIN - GLICKMAN - Edythe. (Tibby). Passed away peacefully at the age of ninety-two at her home in Florida in the devoted care of Mary Peters. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Chasin and David Glickman. Devoted mother of Arthur Chasin, Suzanne Wajntal and Barbara Scotch. Loving grandmother 
 DRUCKMAN-Hannah. Beloved wife of the late Arthur. Loving mother of Eleanor, William and the late Barbara. Adoring grandmother of David Lerner and Emily Druckman. Cherished sister of Judith Weber and Arthur Abraham. Devoted aunt and loving friend. Service Sun, 12:15 at ''The Riverside'', 76 
 GOODMAN-Nena. On March 19, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Andrew Goodman. Devoted mother of Vivien G. Malloy, Mary Ann Quinson, Edwin A. Goodman and Pamela Lichty. Loving grandmother of Andrew T., Deborah Malloy Winkler, Kenneth H., Mark L. and Vivien C. Malloy; Geoffrey, Luke, Adam and Jos
 HEXTER-Leo. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Paulette Katzenstein on the loss of her beloved father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 LEWIS-Estelle. On March 19, 1998 in Hollywood, FL. Beloved mother of Linda Lindenbaum. Adored grandmother of Erica Tishman and Laurie Lindenbaum Horne, loving great-grandmother of Adam, Stuart and Julia Tishman and Sarah Horne. Contributions in her memory may be made to the American Cancer 
 McCASKEY-Lydia. On March 18, 1998 Lydia was suddenly taken away from her husband George, daughter Pamela and many other close family members and friends who loved her dearly. We must all cherish the 65 wonderful years we had with her, but sadly, we will all miss her terribly. Visitation wil
 MCMAHON-Anne V. (nee Fowler). On March 18, 1998, Anne V. McMahon passed away unexpectedly. Beloved wife of Roger F. McMahon who predeceased her in 1956. Beloved mother of Roger, Jr., John (deceased), Harry, Mary Thomas and Katherine Zaremba, Gerard and Michael Albert McMahon. Loving grandmo
 PINCUS-Joan T. Of Yonkers, NY. Corporate attorney and civic activist. Beloved wife of Sherman. Devoted mother of Harlan & Judith. Loving grandmother of Matthew Freud. Sister of Allan Turkheimer. Services Sunday 12:30 P.M., at Weinstein Memorial Chapel, 1652 Central Park Avenue, Yonkers. Con
 SCHWARTZ-Hilda G. Retired Supreme Court Justice on Mar. 18, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Herman N. Schwartz. Loving mother of John M. Schwartz. Devoted sister of Edith Smolen and the late Rose Weisman, Dr. Joseph A. Gaines and Mary Princer. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 Betty L. Santangelo, a retired teacher and school administrator who was long active in Italian-American and other civic affairs, died on March 15 at the home of a daughter in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 80 and formerly lived in the Bronx. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said
 Bernice F. Davidson, a historian of Italian Renaissance art who served as research curator at the Frick Collection for more than four decades, died at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx on Feb. 24. She was 70 and lived in Manhattan. She died of cancer, her sister, Anne Ferry, said.      
 Galina Ulanova, whose uncanny blend of unabashed emotionalism and lyrical restraint made her one of the greatest dancers of the 20th century, died here today. She was 88. Revered in Russia from the moment she made her debut in Leningrad's Maryinsky Ballet in 1928, she riveted the We
 Kay Coltoff, a social worker and educator who used her own illness to make things easier for breast cancer survivors, died on March 5 at her home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. She was 61 and had been a professional-development counselor at Hunter College. In a career in which she work
 AXELRAD-Amelia (Millie). At age 95 on March 16, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Sol Axelrad, M.D., loving aunt of Edith Gelfand, and devoted friend of Frances Grabarz. A long-time resident of Woodhaven, New York, she was active in the Women's Auxiliary of the Queens County Medical Society. H
 CHASIN - GLICKMAN - Edythe. (Tibby). Passed away peacefully at the age of ninety-two at her home in Florida in the devoted care of Mary Peters. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Chasin and David Glickman. Devoted mother of Arthur Chasin, Suzanne Wajntal and Barbara Scotch. Loving grandmother 
 DRESSLER-Reba. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Dressler, passed away on March 18. Cherished and devoted mother of Leonard and Juliette Dressler and Phyllis and Efrom Lebow, and dear sister of Mortimer Chrein. She was adored by her grandchildren and great grandchildren. We will all miss her 
 GILLIAM-Beverly J. Died on February 14, three weeks after her 70th birthday. She was the Evening Director of Library Services at Hunter College until her retirement in 1991. Ms. Gilliam grew up in New York City's Washington Heights. She was graduated from City College and received a Master'
 GOODMAN-Nena. On March 19, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Andrew Goodman. Devoted mother of Vivien G. Malloy, Mary Ann Quinson, Edwin A. Goodman and Pamela Lichty. Loving grandmother of Andrew T., Deborah Malloy Winkler, Kenneth H., Mark L. and Vivien C. Malloy; Geoffrey, Luke, Adam and Jos
 GREENBERG-Sue G. On March 21, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin; loving mother of Carolyn. Her life was devoted to her family and to the many organizations to which she was dedicated. Services Monday, 12 noon, at Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51st Street. GREENBERG-Sue G. S
 ISELIN-Sarah (Sally) C. Writer, editor and photographer. Wife of the late Lewis Iselin, and mother of Edith Byron and Sarah Iselin. Died at her home in New York March 18 at age 82. Services will be private.       
 KNOX-Joan Darrach Fox, 65. Of Monticello, FL., died Thursday, March 12. A native of NYC and former resident of Sarasota, FL., and Greenwich, CT. She was a watercolor artist whose work has been displayed nationally and internationally. She was a humanitarian and environmentalist. She is surv
 LEWIS-Estelle. On March 19, 1998 in Hollywood, FL. Beloved mother of Linda Lindenbaum. Adored grandmother of Erica Tishman and Laurie Lindenbaum Horne, loving great-grandmother of Adam, Stuart and Julia Tishman and Sarah Horne. Contributions in her memory may be made to the American Cancer 
 LUKASHOK-Lillian G. Beloved wife of the late Joseph. Loving mother of Martin and the late E. David. Wonderful grandmother to Bill and Janet and devoted greatgrandmother to David and Owen. Fond sister of Frances Horowitz and the late Meyer Ginsburg. Funeral service Monday, 11:15AM, at ''The 
 McCASKEY-Lydia. On March 18, 1998 Lydia was suddenly taken away from her husband George, daughter Pamela and many other close family members and friends who loved her dearly. We must all cherish the 65 wonderful years we had with her, but sadly, we will all miss her terribly. Visitation wil
 SCHWARTZ-Hilda G. Retired Supreme Court Justice on Mar. 18, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Herman N. Schwartz. Loving mother of John M. Schwartz. Devoted sister of Edith Smolen and the late Rose Weisman, Dr. Joseph A. Gaines and Mary Princer. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madi
 TUMARKIN-Carolyn. The Women's Campaign of the American Jewish Committee mourns the loss of its esteemed Board member, Carolyn Tumarkin, who served with dedication for over 40 years. Our deepest condolences to her sister Teddy Slote, also a devoted member of the Board, and her entire family.
 TUMARKIN-Carolyn Kunst. Beloved wife of the late Maurice. Beloved mother and grandmother. An active civic and human rights leader and advocate, she will be missed. Services Monday, 11 AM, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 WAKIN-Jeanette. Distinguished scholar, superb teacher, and beloved colleague. The students, faculty, and staff of Columbia University's School of General Studies and Religion Department mourn her loss. Her legacy will endure through the students she trained with such care and affection.    
 WALTMAN - Helen. Beloved mother of Stephen and Gillian Waltman and Toni Somerstein. Adored grandmother of Scott Somerstein, Belinda and Michael Waltman. She was a great lady.       
 WRIGHT-Gertrude Aspell, 89. Of Delray Beach, FL and Edgartown MA. Died March 14, 1998. Widow of Frank C. Wright, Jr., she leaves two daughters, Gill of Perrysburg, OH., Gail of NY and Middleburg, VA., and two grandchildren.       
 ZIMMERMAN-Frederick T. Distinguished physician, father and friend, age 95, on March 12, 1998. Survived by daughter, Mary Louise Schwarz; grandchildren, Kurt A., Holly Rae and her husband, Jeffrey Hardy. Expressions of remembrance should be directed to Leonard J. Lucas Funeral Home, Shamokin
 Once upon a time in a faraway land, where princes once vied and heroes died, where questers set out and there were trolls and the stories seemed to come straight from the stone, a child of the aristocracy was born. Her father was an Austrian baron. And if there were no sounds of tru
 BRENNER - MARGOLIN - Eva. Died on March 21, 1998 in Netanya, Israel, where she resided since October 7, 1973, formerly of Borough Park, Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Brenner and beloved wife of Elkin Margolin. Devoted mother of Helyn (z''l) and Seymour Reich of NYC, Rabbi R
 BUSHAN-Sarah Davis. The Auxiliary of Montefiore Medical Center is deeply saddened by the passing of Sarah Davis, a devoted member of the Auxiliary and a volunteer for over 40 years. We will miss her devotion to the Information and Referral Service. We extend our deepest sympathy to her son,
 GREENBERG-Sue G. On March 21, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin; loving mother of Carolyn. Her life was devoted to her family and to the many organizations to which she was dedicated. Services Monday, 12 noon, at Sutton Place Synagogue, 225 East 51st Street.       
 ISELIN-Sarah (Sally) C. Writer, editor and photographer. Wife of the late Lewis Iselin, and mother of Edith Byron and Sarah Iselin. Died at her home in New York March 18 at age 82. Services will be private.       
 JAFFEE-Sylvia S. Died March 21, 1998, age 82. Long time resident of Manhattan. Beloved sister, aunt and friend to many. Executive secretary to former Board of Education Presidents Moss and Shapiro. Enlisted and served in the WACS during World War II. Long time employee at Plum Point Resort 
 MALONEY-Virginia M. Died Saturday morning, March 21, at home after a five year battle with oral cancer. Ginny, the daughter of the late James and Mary Robinson and brother of Donald, also deceased, was born in Stamford, CT, and grew up in Rye, NY. She was an honor graduate of both Good Coun
 NEUHAUS-Ellen. On March 21, 1998, the 71st anniversiary of her marriage to her beloved late husband, Dr. Fritz Neuhaus. Born in Berlin, Germany, July 25, 1905, she was a refugee from Nazi Germany and a longtime resident of NYC and Miami Beach, FL. She is survived by her devoted children Dr.
 TUCKER-Judith. All her friends and people in the bridge world whose lives she touched are deeply saddened and mourn the passing of our beloved Judy Tucker. Memorial service Wednesday, April 1, 5 PM, Honors Bridge Club, 115 East 57th St., NYC. TUCKER-Judith. Gail and the entire staff
 TUMARKIN-Carolyn Kunst. Beloved wife of the late Maurice. Beloved mother and grandmother. An active civic and human rights leader and advocate, she will be missed. Services Monday, 11 AM, Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 BERNARD-Viola Wertheim, M.D. On March 21, 1998. Daughter of the late Jacob and Emma Wertheim. Beloved aunt of Joan Wofford and David Whittlesey. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced. BERNARD-Dr. Viola W. The Executive Committee, faculty, staff and candidates of the Co
 ELLENBERG-Mary. We express our deepest sympathy to Maggie's family on her untimely passing. CAMP NYDA Junior Division       
 FISCHER-Ruth S. Mommy-Nana, the years you lived in our home and the love you gave to all of us will be treasured memories that we will hold in our hearts forever. We all loved every moment we shared, and we will love you with all our hearts forever and ever. Your memory and good deeds will 
 GITTLEMAN-Fannie C. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Isaac F. Gittleman, devoted mother of Maryann and Dr. Alvin Harris, and Ephros and Seymour Manello. Cherished grandmother of Patricia, Jonathan, Danielle, and Sarah. She was dignified, elegant, concerned, involved and will be greatly missed. 
 GOODMAN-Nena. The American Jewish Committee notes with profound sadness the death of Nena Goodman, a woman of warmth and caring, the widow of Andrew Goodman, a devoted AJC member and officer. We send our heartfelt condolences to her son, Edwin, and the rest of the grieving family. Robert S.
 GOULD-Eleanor Greenburg. On March 23, 1998, age 84. She is survived by her husband of 61 years, Milton S. Gould, by her children Patricia Booth, Judson and Jonathan, by her grandchildren Eliza, Alexander, Olivia, Eleanor, and Oliver, and by her brother Robert D. Greenburg. Her life was a bl
 HEIDEN - Stella Goldberger. Passed away on March 22, 1998. Born June 21, 1903. Married to the late Dr. Lionel Heiden. Beloved ''Aunt'' Stella to dozens, piano and music teacher to hundreds, degrees from Damrosch-Juilliard and Columbia University. Taught at Horace Mann, Julia Richman, and Wa
 LUKASHOK-Lillian G. The Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Lillian G. Lukashok. A longtime supporter of UJA-Federation, she dedicated her life to philanthropy and leadership in many communal organizations. She was a friend of the entire Jewish c
 MAZUR-Grace (Hartman). Ethel Fishman and family mourn the passing of a most delightful and courageous woman. Died March 20, 1998. She will be missed.       
 NEUHAUS-Ellen. On March 21, 1998, the 71st anniversary of her marriage to her beloved late husband, Dr. Fritz Neuhaus. Born in Berlin, Germany, July 25, 1905, she was a refugee from Nazi Germany and a longtime resident of NYC and Miami Beach, FL. She is survived by her devoted children Dr. 
 PARADIES-Lyla. Age 74 years, of Plattekill, NY died Monday, March 23, 1998, at her residence. She is survived by two daughters, Louise W. Harrison of Setauket, NY and Lynne Harrison of Queens, NY. She was a member of the Art Association of Queens, NY and a former member of St. Luke's Episco
 SCHLACHTER-Helen C. (nee Cymrot). Of Royal Palm Beach, formerly of Bethpage, NY. Passed away on March 19th. Beloved wife of the late Fenimore (Monte), loving mother of David and Barbara Schlachter, of Merrick, NY, and Moshe and Marilyn Berger, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio. Devoted grandmother
 TUMARKIN - Carolyn. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum note with sorrow the death of Carolyn Tumarkin, mother of Curator Susan Goodman. We extend our heartfelt condolences to her family. Joan Rosenbaum, Director Robert J. Hurst, Chairman Philip A. Laskawy, President       
 BUSHAN-Sarah Davis. Montefiore Medical Center mourns the passing of Sarah Davis, a devoted volunteer and highly respected member of the Auxiliary for more than four decades. She will be missed by all who knew her and by those she served through her dedicated efforts on behalf of the Informa
 CAMPBELL-Sister Antoine. The entire Marymount School community mourns the death of Sister Antoine Campbell, RSHM, a beloved educator and friend. She served our students, parents and alumnae for more than forty years as a dedicated Teacher of Latin and speech, Headmistress, and Director Alum
 COHEN-Adele Gladstone. On March 23, 1998. Graduate Brooklyn College of Pharmacy 1937. Chief Pharmacist at Kew Gardens Hospital. First woman member of the NYS Pharmaceutical Society. Secretary of the College Alumni Association and a Coordinator of the Continuing Education Program. Driving fo
 GOLDHAGEN-Rosalie. On March 23rd, 1998, in her 71st year of Lauderhill, FL. Dear mother of Keith, Jerry and Robert Goldhagen. Adored grandmother of Scott, Lindsay and Samantha. Loving sister of Dr. Lewis Berman. Graveside services today, March 25, 1 PM at Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. D
 GOLDMAN-Jean. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved mother of Beverly Schachar, YU Guardian with her husband, Henry Schachar, member of the Board of Directors of YU's Sy Syms School of Business and of the Board of Trustees of
 GOULD-Eleanor Greenburg. On March 23, 1998, age 84. She is survived by her husband of 61 years, Milton S. Gould, by her children Patricia Booth, Judson and Jonathan, by her grandchildren Eliza, Alexander, Olivia, Eleanor, and Oliver, and by her brother Robert D. Greenburg. Her life was a bl
 HARRIAN-Mary Diane. Age 70. Of New York, NY. Died of cancer March 23, 1998. Beloved daughter of Dr. Yervant Harrian and Dr. Pauline Goodian. Ms. Harrian retired in 1997 as a librarian at the New York Public Library. She was a graduate of Columbia University and New York University. She was 
 HERZFELD-Sylvia. A member of long standing of the Woodmere Club. She will be missed. Board of Governors Mgr, Staff Woodmere Club       
 KOGUT-Minnie (Mickey). March 23, 1998. Beloved and missed by all; especially by her husband Alvin and sons Alexander and Richard. Adored by daughters-in-law Jackie and Nicole and her granddaughters Deborah and Danielle.       
 SCHLACHTER-Helen C. (nee Cymrot). Of Royal Palm Beach, formerly of Bethpage, NY. Passed away on March 19th. Beloved wife of the late Fenimore (Monte), loving mother of David and Barbara Schlachter, of Merrick, NY, and Moshe and Marilyn Berger, of Cleveland Heights, Ohio. Devoted grandmother
 Betsey Cushing Roosevelt Whitney, the widow of John Hay (Jock) Whitney, the first wife of James Roosevelt and the last of the three glamorous Cushing sisters of Boston, died yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 89. Mrs. Whitney was one of the most 
 BERNARD-Viola W., M.D. Louise Wise Services for Children and Families deeply mourns the loss of our distinguished Honorary Board Member, Dr. Viola Bernard. She was our esteemed colleague, teacher and friend. Dr. Bernard served on the Board for fifty years and was our Chief Psychiatric Consu
 KORBIN-Lillian M. Died Saturday, March 21, 1998. Lillian, wife of the late Theodore R. Korbin, was born in Springfield, MA., and spent the majority of her life in the Bx., N.Y. She is survived by her nephews Gerald C. McDonald, Robert T. McDonald, and John R. McDonald and several grandniece
 MENDEL-Estelle L. Becker. Eighty-five years old of North Miami Beach, Florida. Formerly of Staten Island, New York. Died in North Miami Beach, Florida on March 25, 1998. She was the devoted mother of Mrs. Linda F. Lewis (Alan) of Jupiter, Florida and Dr. Jaqueline H. Becker of New York City
 POTTER-Lisl. March 24, 1998. Of Somers, NY. Formerly of Pound Ridge and Scarsdale, NY. Beloved wife of Georges. Loving mother of Barbara Potter, Andrea Kirshoff and Tina Potter. Devoted grandmother of Joey, David, Jack and Maddy Kirshoff. Mother-in-law of Steven Kirshoff, James Taylor and C
 SCHACHT-Anita Brim. Much loved wife of the late Jack, mother of Diane, sister of Miriam and Gloria, and aunt to Jonathan, Michael, Linda, and Jennifer, on Wednesday, March 25, 1998. Social worker, sculptor, traveler, and free spirit, she will forever live in our hearts. Services at Park Wes
 TWIGG-SMITH-Laila. The Board of Trustees and staff at the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our beloved friend and member of the Museum's National and Painting & Sculpture Committees, Laila Twigg-Smith. She will be warmly remembered for her steadfast supp
 WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. It is with profound sadness that we note the passing of this dedicated and generous benefactor. Mrs. Whitney gave wholeheartedly to fulfill a dream shared by thousands-the creation of a hospital on Long Island's North Shore. During its early years of growth, she cont
 Hilda Morley, an American poet who gained wider recognition late in life, decades after she first published her imagist free verse, died on Monday at Royal Free Hospital in Hampstead, London. A former resident of Sag Harbor, N.Y., she was 81 and had moved to London last year to continue wor
 ANDREWS-Louise Evans. Of Centerport, New York, March 23, 1998. (3rd generation graduate of Smith College and her daughters, 4th generation graduates.) Wife of Stephen P. Andrews. Mother of Jonathan B. Andrews, Elizabeth P. Andrews, Sarah K. Andrews, Myra L. Sobel. Daughter of David Evans. S
 BERNARD-Viola. On March 21, 1998. Viola was one of our most distinguished faculty members. She showed us how the sensitivity and subtlety of a clinician could be brought to bear on problems of the public health. Her strong ethical sense, her personal generosity and her caring involvement, e
 CLORFEINE-Myrtle. Of NY and FL, on Tuesday, March 24. She inspired her family and friends with her indomitable energy and spirit. She will be remembered with great love by her children Susan Grossman and Steve, son-in-law Bernie, grandchildren Jeffrey, Julie, Stacy, their spouses, greatgran
 COOPER-Pearl. On March 26, 1998. Beloved wife for 58 years to George. Adored mother of Elizabeth and Irwin Feiner, Leslie and Bob Gruber, and Barbara Cooper. Loving grandmother of Steven, Scott, Andrea and Andrew, Andrew, Richard and Alan, Jason and David. She was our family matriarch and w
 CORWIN-Joan. Prayers go out to our sister-in-law, aunt, and friend, Corey Corwin Shafran and her family on the death of their mother, Joan. Eve, Billie, Annah, Andrew, Sammy, Molly, Joshua, Jenny and Kirsten CORWIN-Joan. Our deepest sympathy to the Corwin family on the loss of their
 KAPLANSKY-Ruth. Family and friends mourn the passing of a righteous and devoted wife, cherished mother and loving grandmother who dedicated her life to her family. She was a pillar of strength and demonstrated committment to life each and every day. She is survived by a loving husband of 59
 KORBIN-Lillian M. Died Saturday, March 21, 1998. Lillian, wife of the late Theodore R. Korbin, was born in Springfield, MA., and spent the majority of her life in the Bx., N.Y. She is survived by her nephews Gerald C. McDonald, Robert T. McDonald, and John R. McDonald and several grandniece
 LEVY-Edna R. On March 26, 1998. Retired New York City teacher, P.S. 19M. Beloved wife of the late Seymour W. Levy, cherished mother of Jane Levy, Elizabeth Kaplan, and son-in-law Nathan Kaplan, devoted grandmother of Jonathan, Alexander and Caroline Kaplan. Eldest sister of Olga Menkes and 
 ROLLINS-Judith Coleman, 57, died March 20th of breast cancer. Educated at Bennington College, Bank Street College and Harvard University. She was the Director of Day Care for New York State, Metropolitan Regional Office. Survivors: children Malikkah and Khari, mother Ruth, brother Jerry. Se
 ROTHENBERG-Sylvia Gold Rothenberg, age eighty-one. Of Bal Harbour, Florida, passed away on March 24, 1998. Born in New York, Mrs. Rothenberg was a long-time resident of Jersey City, N.J., before moving to Florida. With her husband Artie, she was an active partner in their business which was
 TWIGG-SMITH-Laila. Jay Johnson and Alan Wanzenberg, and the entire staff of Jed Johnson & Associates, Inc., and Alan Wanzenberg Architects, P.C. deeply mourn the death of their friend, Laila. Her great passion for life and enthusiasm for art and all things beautiful will be incredibly misse
 WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. We mourn the death of our beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother, Betsey Cushing Whitney, who died on March 25, 1998. Her sense of humor, her determination and her courage will be with us always. Our thanks to all who have communicated their love and suppor
 ZEVON-Renee S. On March 25, 1998, age 50. With profound sadness, we mark the passing of our beloved and compassionate friend and mentor. Renee touched us for too short a time, but ever so deeply, with her senses of humanity and of humor and with her zest for life. She was the great communic
 BLUM-Leona F. On March 25, beloved wife of the late Arthur, devoted sister of James and Jeanne Bary, Carol Fahy and the late Dorothea Subkoff, loving mother of Richard and Clair, Micheal, David and Reva, grandmother of Michael and Monique, Adam, Amy, Andrew, Rachel and Jennifer, and great-g
 CHAPLAN-Joan Platoff, PhD, of Englewood, NJ, Los Angeles, CA and Seattle, WA on Tuesday, March 24, 1998. Joan graduated from Vassar College. She worked in radio and television in NY for many years. She then received a masters in Early Childhood Education from Bank Street College and a PhD f
 COOPER-Pearl. On March 26, 1998. Beloved wife for 58 years to George. Adored mother of Elizabeth and Irwin Feiner, Leslie and Bob Gruber, and Barbara Cooper. Loving grandmother of Steven, Scott, Andrea and Andrew, Andrew, Richard and Alan, Jason and David. She was our family matriarch and w
 CORWIN-Joan. Prayers go out to our sister-in-law, aunt, and friend, Corey Corwin Shafran and her family on the death of their mother, Joan. Eve, Billie, Annah, Andrew, Sammy, Molly, Joshua, Jenny and Kirsten       
 HOCHBERG-Barbara P. The officers, trustees and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee express their deep sorrow at the loss of Barbara Hochberg, devoted member of the JDC Board and beloved wife to Larry. She was deeply dedicated to meeting the needs of World Jewry and of 
 KRANE-Lillian. Age 74. Devoted wife for 50 years. Loving mother to her three children and three grandchildren. Her remains are to be laid to rest on March 30, 1998.       
 MANSHEL-Hannah. Entered into rest on March 26th, Hannah (Jacobson), of New Rochelle, NY. Beloved wife of Ernest Manshel. Devoted mother of Marsha Amir of Phoenix, AZ, David Manshel of Maynard, MA., and Stephen Manshel of Aurora, CO. Dear daughter of the late Dr. Moritz Jacobson and Charlott
 WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. We mourn the death of our beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother, Betsey Cushing Whitney, who died on March 25, 1998. Her sense of humor, her determination and her courage will be with us always. Our thanks to all who have communicated their love and suppor
 COOPER-Pearl. On March 26, 1998. Beloved wife for 58 years to George. Adored mother of Elizabeth and Irwin Feiner, Leslie and Bob Gruber, and Barbara Cooper. Loving grandmother of Steven, Scott, Andrea and Andrew, Andrew, Richard and Alan, Jason and David. She was our family matriarch and w
 CORWIN-Joan. Prayers go out to our sister-in-law, aunt, and friend, Corey Corwin Shafran and her family on the death of their mother, Joan. Eve, Billie, Annah, Andrew, Sammy, Molly, Joshua, Jenny and Kirsten CORWIN-Joan. Our deepest sympathy to the Corwin family on the loss of their
 FISCHER-Ruth S. Mommy-Nana, the years you lived in our home and the love you gave to all of us will be treasured memories that we will hold in our hearts forever. We all loved every moment we shared, and we will love you with all our hearts forever and ever. Your memory and good deeds will 
 FORCINO-Norma Franks. Age 59, died peacefully at home on March 27, 1998, with her loving family at her side after a courageous struggle with ovarian cancer. Throughout, she maintined her humor, wit and dignity, and gave us all inspiration and strength. She was a compassionate nurse who rece
 GOLDMAN-Marion. Of Rego Park on March 27, 1998. Beloved wife and lifelong companion of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Seymour and David. Loving mother-in-law of Suzanne. Dear sister and best friend of Laura and Jeannette. Sister-in-law of Norman. Adored grandmother of Lorin Michelle, Ev
 HEBALD-Cecille Rosner, 82. Born in New York City, died in Rome, Italy February 7, 1998. Beloved wife of renowned sculptor Milton Hebald, mother of Los Angeles architect Margo Hebald Heymann, grandmother of Lara Hebald Embry and Sergei Hebald Heymann; all who miss her with deep sorrow.      
 HILL-Mildred E., born July 23, 1903, died March 26, 1998 in Lakewood, NJ. A social worker and graduate of Barnard College, she reorganized and became president and head worker in 1934 of The Neighborhood House of The City of New York, a settlement house begun in 1910 which she continued to 
 NORTON-Trina Marshall, 84. On Wednesday, March 25th, 1998. She is survived by son, Nathaniel R. Norton of Charlotte, VT., and son Marshall L. and wife Mia Norton of Richmond, VA. and six grandchildren. Services will be Monday at St. Mary's Episcopal Church on River Road at 12:00 Noon. In li
 PALEY-Joan Lawton. Of Lauderdale By The Sea passed away after a long illness on March 27, 1998. Joan was born in Pawtucket, Rhode Island and educated at Brown University and Albany Law School. She practiced law in Washington, DC and in New York City. She was a Supervisory Attorney for the N
 ROTH-Selma (nee Halpert). On Tuesday, March 17th, 1998. Of Palm Beach, Florida. Formerly of Massapequa, New York. Beloved wife of A. Sidney. Loving mother of Jonathan of Westport, CT, Peter of Rochester, NY and Leslie Silverstein of Andover, MA. Dear sister of I. Lawrence. Devoted grandmoth
 WHITNEY-Betsey Cushing. We mourn the death of our beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother, Betsey Cushing Whitney, who died on March 25, 1998. Her sense of humor, her determination and her courage will be with us always. Our thanks to all who have communicated their love and suppor
 WRIGHT-Gertrude Aspell, 89. Of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of NYC, died at her home March 14 after a long illness. Active in many civic and social groups, she served on boards & committees of YWCA Residences, the Cosmopolitan Club and the China Institute. She is predeceased by her husband, F
 YOUDELMAN - Beatrice. On March 20, 1998, originally of NYC. Cherished and devoted mother of Carol and Barry Widensky and the late Matthew. Widow of Herbert Youdelman. Adored grandmother of Chad, Bradley and Ian. Terrific aunt and friend. Loved by all who were fortunate enough to know her in
 ZEIGER-Harriette V. Died suddenly but peacefully in her home on March 26, 1998. She leaves behind her son R. Anthony Zeiger; her daughter Nancy Sylvor; her two grandchildren, Jeffrey and Andrew Zeiger; her beloved cousin Norman Rubin and her dearest friend, Ellen Rosenthal DeSario. She rema
 BEGLEY-Evelyn M. Of Venice, FL, formerly of Ft. Salonga, NY. Native of Cloone, County Leitrim, Ireland. Beloved wife of John. Devoted mother of John, Dermot M., Deidre M., Neil P. and Oona E. Grandmother of six. Sister of Mona Walters, Rita Williams, Noreen Charles and Paul Cooney. Reposing
 BRAUDE-Lillian. The President, Board of Trustees and staff of Guild Hall mourn the loss of Lillian Braude, devoted wife of distinguished poet/publisher Michael Braude. Lillian Braude was a distinguished longtime Trustee, patron and devoted Museum Committee and Hays Poetry Committee member w
 COLLINS-Regina. On March 29, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence M. Strauss and the late Albert Collins. Loving mother of Lawrence Strauss and Marjorie Power; adoring grandmother of Lawrence C., Michael and Jeremy Strauss and Erik Power. Dear sister of Julian Rothbaum. Interment private
 CORWIN-Joan. Prayers go out to our sister-in-law, aunt, and friend, Corey Corwin Shafran and her family on the death of their mother, Joan. Eve, Billie, Annah, Andrew, Sammy, Molly, Joshua, Jenny and Kirsten CORWIN-Joan. Our deepest sympathy to the Corwin family on the loss of their
 FORCINO-Norma Franks. Age 59, died peacefully at home on March 27, 1998, with her loving family at her side after a courageous struggle with ovarian cancer. Throughout, she maintined her humor, wit and dignity, and gave us all inspiration and strength. She was a compassionate nurse who rece
 GREEN-Edythe. On March 28, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Sol. Loving mother of Lynn and Alan. Dear sister of Florence, Charlotte and Debby. Adoring grandmother of Adam and Anthony-James. Family will receive Monday, 7-9 PM. Service Tuesday, 9:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amster
 REISMAN-Julia Ornstein. March 28, 1998, at home. Beautiful wife and loving companion of Sy. Wonderful mother of Nancy, Richard, Jodi and Kenny. Loving daughter of Miriam and Albert. Devoted sister of Steve and the late Robert. Cherished daughter-in-law of Sylvia and Willie. Beloved mother-i
 RIPP-Gita. It is with great sadness that we note the passing of Gita Ripp (nee Kahan), beloved mother, sister, aunt and grandmother, on Sunday, March 29, 1998. She was a granddaughter of the philanthropist Chaim Kahan. Born in Baku, Russia, in 1909, she lived in Russia, Germany, France and 
 SCHORR-Maria Grandy. Beloved wife of Seymour; devoted daughter of Frances Grandy; adored mother of Allegra and Richard Fitch, Lydia and Bruce Silverman. Cherished grandmother of Zachary, Julia and Evan. Dear niece of Jeanne Hurst. Services Monday, 10 AM, at ''Boulevard-Riverside Chapels,'' 
 STRAUSS-Eva. Born Stuttgart, Germany, 1905, died March 28. Daughter of Adolph and Martha Kops. Devoted and beloved wife of the late Julius Strauss. Mother of the late Rosemary Strauss. Lovingly remembered by her children Peter and Laura, and her grandchildren Carolyn Strauss, Mimi Friedman,
 Hilda Ginsburg Schwartz, a retired justice of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan, who was a mentor and role model for many female lawyers, died on March 18 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 90 and lived in Greenwich Village. She was among the first women to reach
 BURKE-Timothy C. on March 27, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Michael Burke. Devoted mother of Doreen Sorrell and Michele Majer. Loving grandmother of William, Edmund and Spencer. Member of Colonial Dames of America and D.A.R. Memorial service at St. Jean the Baptiste Church, Lexington Ave a
 COLLINS-Regina. On March 29, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Lawrence M. Strauss and the late Albert Collins. Loving mother of Lawrence Strauss and Marjorie Power; adoring grandmother of Lawrence C., Michael and Jeremy Strauss and Erik Power. Dear sister of Julian Rothbaum. Interment private
 CRIMMINS-Violet Rothwell. Of Darien, CT, March 29, 1998. Wife of the late Robert Crimmins. Mother of Sally Thorne, Anne Crimmins, & Susan Crimmins. Grandmother of four. At her request, there will be no services. Donations in her memory may be made to Hospice Care, Inc. 1029 East Main Street
 HETTLING-Lillian Bassein. Formerly of Croton-On-Hudson, New York, died in Virginia Sunday, March 29, 1998. She was born in 1906, in the Bronx, NY, to Leon ''Elbe'' & Lizzy Goldberg Bassein. Lillian was the wife of the late Frederick E. Hettling, and is survived by 2 daughters, and 3 grandch
 POCHAPIN-Anne. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of our dear friend, Rita Rosen. Mrs. Pochapin was a member of our Society of Founders. Her concern for others will live in perpetuity in the good works of 
 SCHORR-Maria Grandy. The Juilliard School mourns the loss of Maria Grandy, distinguished member of the Dance Faculty for the past ten years. A teacher remarkable for her dedication and spirit, she was noted for her ability to inspire great progress in her students. She believed that the dan
 SHEARD-Wendy Stedman (Williams). Friends and colleagues mourn the passing of Wendy Sheard, age 62, on March 25th in Stony Creek, CT. She was the beloved wife of Michael and a devoted mother and stepmother to Amanda (Bourque), Tony (Stedman), Paul, Russell and Craig Sheard. She was the lovin
 SILBER-Yetta R. On March 29, 1998. Loving mother of Alan and Fred Gorelick and devoted stepmother of Dr. Stanley Silber. Adored mother-in-law of Anita Sapirman and Jan Fogelman. Cherished grandmother of Jamie, Brett and Samantha. Services will be private. In lieu of flowers, donations may b
 STRAUSS-Eva. Born Stuttgart, Germany, 1905, died March 28. Daughter of Adolph and Martha Kops. Devoted and beloved wife of the late Julius Strauss. Mother of the late Rosemary Strauss. Lovingly remembered by her children Peter and Laura, and her grandchildren Carolyn Strauss, Mimi Friedman,
 SWITZER-Anna Ashley Lamar. Died on Friday, March 27th, 1998 after a brief illness at her home in Pensacola, Florida. She was 97. She was a daughter of Caroline Law Varnedoe and Charles Wilbur Lamar and the widow of VADM Wendell Gray Switzer, USN. Mrs. Switzer was born in Valdosta, GA Septem
 URDANG-Lenore. The Board of Governors and Members of Bocaire Country Club, record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Mon., March 30, 1998. She will be missed. Services will be held Wednesday, April 1, 1:30 P.M., at Gutterman-Warheit Memorial Chapel, 7240 N. Federal Highway,
 van OSS-Anne Elise (nee Burnett). Formerly of Lawrenceville, New Jersey. Died March 26, 1998 in Newtown, PA. of emphysema. She is survived by her husband of fifty years, Hendrik van Oss, her three children Alex, Hendrik Gilbert and Elise and by her brother Gilbert Burnett. In lieu of flower
