 Ida R. Hoos, a prominent critic of assessing technology solely on the basis of mathematical models that failed to take account of societal factors, died on April 24 in Boston. She was 94 and lived in Brookline, Mass. The cause was complications of a lingering case of pneumonia, said
 Isabella Blow, a British fashion editor, aristocrat and aesthete whose gift for identifying and promoting new talent was occasionally overshadowed by her own Surrealist plumage, died yesterday in Gloucestershire, England. She was 48. Her death, at a hospital, was reported by Geordie
 Lesley Blanch, an English writer and traveler best known for ''The Wilder Shores of Love,'' a biography of four 19th-century women who cast aside convention to seek adventure and romance in the East, died on Monday in Menton, in the South of France. She was 102 and had lived in Menton for m
 Kate Webb, a brave, no-nonsense correspondent during the Vietnam War who was erroneously reported to have been captured, killed and cremated in Cambodia -- only to emerge from the jungle alive --died on Sunday in Sydney, Australia. She was 64. The cause was bowel cancer, her brother
 Yolanda King, the eldest child of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. who melded her father's message of racial equality and nonviolence with her own calling as an actor and a motivational speaker, died on Tuesday in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 51. Steve Klein, a spokesman for the 
 Karen Hess, an American culinary historian who brought an academic rigor to the study of recipes, cooking techniques and ordinary American kitchen practices, died Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 88. She died after suffering a stroke the week before, her son Peter Hess said. Ms
 Mary Scheier, a pioneer of the modern studio pottery movement known for the lightness of her forms, died on May 14 in Green Valley, Ariz. She was 99 and had lived in Green Valley for many years. Her death was announced by Susan Strickler, a friend and the director of the Currier Mus
 Dame Mary Douglas, an anthropologist whose influence ranged beyond the traditional questions of her field to examine areas as diverse as kosher diets, consumer behavior, environmentalism and humor as she described how humans work together to find shared meaning, died Wednesday in London.   
 Marian Radke-Yarrow, a researcher in child psychology who conducted many influential studies on a range of sensitive issues -- including prejudice among elementary school pupils, depression in very young children and indications of altruistic impulses even in 1-year-olds -- died on Saturday
 Gretchen Wyler, an actress in Broadway musicals in the 1950s and '60s who became known in later years as an animal-rights advocate, died on Sunday at her home in Camarillo, Calif. She was 75. The cause was complications of breast cancer, according to the Humane Society of the United
