 Dorothy J. Farnan, a high school English teacher whose friendship with the poet W. H. Auden and his companion, Chester Kallman, enabled her to write ''Auden in Love,'' a book about their life together, died on Oct. 23 in her Manhattan apartment. She was 84. Ms. Farnan bridged the wo
 Christabel Burton Bielenberg, a well-born Englishwoman who wrote a best-selling memoir about saving her German husband, a Nazi resister, from the Gestapo, died on Sunday at the family's home in rural Ireland. She was 94. Her book, ''The Past Is Myself,'' published in 1968, was a run
 Sheila Smythe, a former head of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield and dean of the school of public health at New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y., died on Tuesday at New York Weill Cornell Center. She was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack. a spokeswoman a
 C. Z. Guest, one of the monarchs of New York society who was a perennial selection on the best-dressed list, a noted horsewoman and an authority on gardening, died yesterday at home in Old Westbury, N.Y. She was 83. Mrs. Guest's interest in horticulture began when she was a child fo
 C. Z. Guest, one of the monarchs of New York society who was a perennial selection on the best-dressed list, a noted horsewoman and an authority on gardening, died on Saturday at home in Old Westbury, N.Y. She was 83. Mrs. Guest's interest in horticulture began when she was a child 
 Ann Cornelisen, an American expatriate writer who brought spry and steely language to her evocative books about the poverty-stricken South of Italy, died on Wednesday at her home in Rome, Ga. She was 77. The cause was not disclosed by her funeral home, and she had no immediate survi
 Linda C. Quinn, a specialist in securities law and an influential force at the Securities and Exchange Commission in the 1980's and 1990's, died on Tuesday in Dalton, Mass. Her brother, Michael, said the cause of death was breast cancer. Ms. Quinn was 55 and had residences in Manhat
 Dorothy Loudon, the actress and comedian who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her portrayal of Miss Hannigan, the mean-spirited orphanage headmistress in the hit musical ''Annie,'' died yesterday. She was 70. Lionel Larner, her friend and manager, told The Associated Press that she died
 Dorothy Loudon, the actress and comedian who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her portrayal of Miss Hannigan, the mean-spirited orphanage headmistress in the hit musical ''Annie,'' died on Saturday. She was 70. Lionel Larner, her friend and manager, told The Associated Press that she di
 Lotte Berk, the dancer who gave her name to a no-nonsense system for achieving slim waists, trim thighs and taut bottoms that became a must for glamorous women in the 1960's, died on Nov. 4 in England. She was 90 and had lived there in Hungerford, Berkshire, since retiring about 20 years ag
 Katharine Thomas O'Neil Bidwell, a patron of music and education who headed the Metropolitan Opera Guild in the 1980's, died last Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 66 and also had a home on Fishers Island, N.Y. The cause was breast cancer, her family 
 Evan Ruderman, whose theatrical monologue about her own experience with AIDS was a major part of a documentary shown on public television in 1996, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 44. The cause was complications of AIDS, her mother, Dr. Cydelle Berlin, sa
 Patricia Broderick, a writer and painter who was the mother of the actor Matthew Broderick, died on Tuesday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 78. The cause was cancer, her son said. Raised in Manhattan on the Upper East Side but a devotee of the bohemian Village, Ms.
 Clare Le Corbeiller, a longtime curator of the decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 71. She had battled cancer for five years, said her husband, Jean Le Corbeiller. Mrs. Corbeiller was widely knowledgeable in 
 Audrey B. Love, a philanthropist and patron of the arts, died on Saturday at her home in Key Biscayne, Fla. She was 100. Mrs. Love, who also had an apartment on Park Avenue in Manhattan, was the daughter of Edyth Guggenheim and Adm. Louis Josephthal, and was raised in Manhattan in a
 Marjorie Schlesinger Deane, who advised retail stores on fashion trends through an influential publication called the Tobe Report, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, her family said. Until her death, Mrs
 Cleo Athenos Stark, who performed with the modern-dance companies of Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman in the 1920's and 30's, died on Nov. 9 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 95. Born in Greece, Ms. Stark came to the United States as a child. She trained at the Denishawn Scho
 Jane Evans, a former top executive of several large companies and most recently the managing partner of the Directors' Council, a company she helped form this year to help companies find women and members of minorities to serve as directors, died Nov. 16 in Buenos Aires, where she was atten
