 COHN--Ruth. The Board of Directors, Officers and staff of the ISEF Foundation wish to express its great sorrow on the passing of Ruth Cohn, sister of ISEF's President, Nina A. Weiner, and a friend of the Foundation. We send our heartfelt condolences to Samy Cohn, her husband, Hedy Erbsen, h
 KHANI--Helen. Our deepest and heartfelt sympathies go out to June Jacobs, CEO of June Jacobs Spa Collection & President of Peter Thomas Roth Clinical Skin Care, for the loss of her mother, Helen Khani. From all of the employees at June Jacobs Spa Collection Peter Thomas Roth Clinical Skin C
 RACKMAN -- Honey. The partners, associates and staff of Gottlieb, Rackman & Reisman, P.C. mourn the passing of Honey Rackman, wife of founding partner Michael I. Rackman after a long battle with cancer. Honey was active in many Jewish causes that she felt passionately about, including The J
 ROTHMAN -- Sonia. The members of the Department of Medicine of Beth Israel Medical Center join with the entire staff of the Hospital in extending heartfelt sympathy to our dear friend and colleague, Judy Rothman, over the death of her beloved mother, Sonia Rothman. We offer our condolences 
 SCHLANGER--Sydell. 94, of Wayne, N.J., formerly of Jamaica Estates, L.I. Survived by her loving daughter Ellen Cohen and her husband Irwin, cherished grandchildren Greg, Brian, Wendy, Harry, Debra, Michal and Jill, Gwen and Mindy; and nine great grandchildren. Services were held at Robert S
 SUSSMAN -- Miriam. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of a devoted friend and, with her late husband, Murray, an esteemed member of our Society of Founders. To her children, Alan and Leonard, and to the entire family, we extend
 WINZEMER--Zelda. A woman of great dignity and intelligence to the end, her family mourns her passing. Beloved wife of Aaron, loving mother of Jean, Judy and Susan, mother-in-law of Ken and Jerry, adoring grandmother of Wren, Drew, Reed, Joanna, Jeremy and Ian, and special friend to so many 
 BARLOW--Ethel. On July 31, 2003. A lifelong resident of New York. Widely traveled, Ms. Barlow made over 60 trips to Europe. She is survived by her grand-nephews David Rubin and Michael Rubin, and her cousin Hyacinth Hoffman. Contributions may be sent to the Simon Wiesenthal Foundation. Serv
 HERMAN--Mindy Joy. On July 31, 2003. Beloved daughter of Bernard and Gloria. Loving sister of Steven and Donna. Cherished aunt of Philip and Ross. Devoted granddaughter of Elsie Liebowitz. Her ability to find happiness in the face of adversity will be a lesson to us all. Service Monday, 11:
 FLORIO--Maureen. On July 27, 2003 after a courageous battle with lung cancer. Daughter of the late Kathleen and James Sweeney of Manhattan. Predeceased by two sisters, Kathleen Butler of Hightstown, NJ & Gertrude O'Shea of Mesa, AZ. Devoted wife of John Victor Florio of North Haven, CT., an
 GOLDBERG--Rita D. On August 1, 2003, at the age of 76. Devoted and loved wife of Harold. Adored mother of David, Jay and Steven. Beloved mother-in-law of Cynthia and Lynn. Grandmother of Daniel, Ari, Julia and Kevin. Her death brings an end to a courageous and beautiful life. Services will 
 HERMAN--Mindy Joy. On July 31, 2003. Beloved daughter of Bernard and Gloria. Loving sister of Steven and Donna. Cherished aunt of Philip and Ross. Devoted granddaughter of Elsie Liebowitz. Her ability to find happiness in the face of adversity will be a lesson to us all. Service Monday, 11:
 KUSHNER--Ann. The I.F.A.A. mourns the loss of our beloved cousin and longstanding head of the Cheer and Sunshine Fund. She will be missed by all. >>AD#       
 LAWLESS--Elinor nee Faulhaber of NYC and Phoenicia, N.Y. on July 20, 2003. Devoted wife of the late John M. Lawless. Loving mother of Elinor Lawless Ringer and John M. Lawless, Jr. For many years a teacher in the NYC Board of Education, from which she retired. She led a full and fulfilling 
 RACKMAN--Honey. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of our special friend and benefactress, Honey Rackman, beloved wife of Michael Rackman and devoted daughter-in-law of our revered Chancellor Rabbi Emanuel Rackman and Ruth Rackman, z''l. Honey Rackman p
 SWICK--Lillian Max. Died July 27th. Beloved wife of Samuel. Survived by many nieces and nephews to whom she was devoted. You may contact Mr. Swick at 700 Hope Road, Tinton Falls, New Jersey 07724. >>AD#       
 UDELL--Matilde. 76. Beloved wife of Harold. Cherished sister of Morton Rusoff and sister-in-law of Beverly. Much loved step-mother of Mauro, Diane, Nancy, Alan and Robyn. Adored grandmother of Lindsay and Samuel. Dearest aunt of Carolyn and Arturo Servian, and Richard and Debbie Rusoff. She
 VOYSKUN -- Rozalia ''Aza''. Died on July 20, 2003 at New York Presbyterian Hospital after a sudden illness. Born in 1929 in Russia, the daughter of Sophia and Mark Wolovich, she was a dedicated and beloved teacher of Russian language and literature and loving mother of Marina. Since 1986, s
 WERBEL--Mildred. 96, died in Honolulu. Widow of Bernard Werbel. Worked in NYC schools and at Werbel publishing. Moved to Hawaii 1983. Bridge Life Master and world traveller. Her love of family, generosity, intelligence, sense of humor, impressed all who knew her. She will be remembered and 
 ALTMAN--Blanche.(nee Siegel). August 2, 2003, at the age of 82. Formerly of Great Neck, NY, and Hallandale, FL. She spent the last six years in Philadelphia living with her daughter. Wife of the late Irving (Pidgie) Altman. Loving mother of Hedy Friedman (Arnie) and Cheryl Cohen (Steven). B
 HEITEL--Belle Diane. On August 1, in her sleep. Wife of the late Joseph Heitel, mother of the late Roma Meller, grandmother to David, Cathy and Dafna. ''Aunt Belle'' to West 57th St. and her very extended family. Services Aug. 5 at 10 AM, Congregation Rodeph Sholom, 7 W. 83rd St. >>AD#     
 MAAS--Hildegard (nee Gold). On August 2, 2003. Predeceased by her beloved husband Max, daughter Renate and brother Armin. Survived by many nieces and nephews. Tante will be greatly missed. Graveside service today, 11 AM, Beth El Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. >>AD#       
 MARCUS--Gertrude. On August 2, 2003. Adored wife, lover and best friend of Arthur. Cherished mother of Joan Rosenberg and Steven Marcus. Beloved grandmother of Scott and Ali, Stacey and James, Jamie and Jimmy and Kimberly and Jeff. Proud great-grandmother of Jake, Ryan, Emma, Brett and Char
 SLAUSON -- Blanche. Died peacefully in her sleep in Palm Beach, FL, August 3, 2003, leaving her caring husband Sidney, her loving daughter Gail and grandson Adam, his wife Olivia, and Julia and Alexander, her greatgrandchildren. Blanche was principal of the Adult Evening School in Carteret,
 Patricia S. Goldman-Rakic, a professor of neuroscience at Yale University whose pioneering research on brain and memory functions helped pave the way for understanding schizophrenia and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, died last Thursday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 66 and lived
 DONOHOE--Louise F. Died August 3, 2003. Born Cuddy, Pennsylvania, June 11, 1915, she graduated from Bellevue School of Nursing in 1936 and served as captain in the Army Nursing Corps from 1942-46. She was the widow of Charles J. Donohoe and is survived by a son Charles D. Donohoe, M.D., Mis
 GOTTESMAN--Susan Dena. Age 48. Passed away July 13, 2003 in Hartford, CT. Daughter of the late Dr. Abraham & Ruth Gottesman. Survived by her beloved daughter Rachel Russo, brother Gary & Jan Gottesman, step-daughters Taylor and Alexa Pratt, Lita Karp, Dr. Hal and Judy Gottesman, dear Karp a
 GRABEL--Betty on August 3, 2003 at 96. Beloved mother of William and Maxine, loyal mother-in-law to Linda and Stanley. Cherished grandmother of Naomi, David, Cara, Jill and Jonathan, doting great-grandmother to Zachary, Carolyn, Benjamin, Nathaniel and Julia, and devoted wife to the late Ir
 HEITEL--Belle Diane. On August 1, in her sleep. Wife of the late Joseph Heitel, mother of the late Roma Meller, grandmother to David, Cathy and Dafna. ''Aunt Belle'' to West 57 Steet and her very extended family. Services August 5 at 3 P.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Av
 JAFFE--Jane. Age 76. Of Cross River, N.Y. Formerly of Waccabuc, N.Y. Died August 3, 2003, at home. Wife of the late Lee. Mother of Jim (Laura) of Katonah, N.Y., John (Robyn) of Wesburn, Australia and Jed (Kathie) of Eden Prairie, MN. Sister of Susan Cole of Casper, WY. Also survived by seve
 LERNER--Leslie Karpen. Beloved wife of Lawrence Lerner. Loving mother of Erik (Ellyn) Lerner. Adoring grandmother of Mattathias Lerner. Services Thursday, 11 AM at Mount Sinai Memorial Parks & Mortuaries, Hollywookd Hills, CA, 800-600-0076 LERNER--Nora, on Saturday, August 2, 2003. 
 MARCUS--Gertrude. On August 2, 2003. Adored wife, lover and best friend of Arthur. Cherished mother of Joan Rosenberg and Steven Marcus. Beloved grandmother of Scott and Ali, Stacey and James, Jamie and Jimmy and Kimberly and Jeff. Proud great-grandmother of Jake, Ryan, Emma, Brett and Char
 POULAKAKOS--Adrienne M. February 24, 1934-August 4, 2003. Beloved wife of Harry and mother of Peter passed from this life peacefully on August 4, 2003 after a short illness. Adrienne, who was the second child and only daughter of Alfred and Mary Alice Nahas, was born on February 24, 1934 in
 RACKMAN -- Honey. We mourn the untimely passing of our founding Board Member, Honey Rackman. A woman of great strength and courage, Honey was a committed advocate for agunot, and passionate in her zeal to remedy their plight. She will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to the entir
 THOMPSON--Barbara B., 49, on August 1. A talented photographer. She will be missed by her mother, Odette Dahlberg, her sisters, Linda, Cynthia and Miriam Thompson, her nieces, Jeanne, Felmly, Chiara Gerding, and all of her friends in Liberty, Pittsburgh, NYC and across the country.       
 CHUTICK--Dr. Lillian. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the recent passing of a longtime Benefactor who, with her late beloved sister, Dr. Rebecca Chutick, established scholarships and many facilities within the University's various schools, namely the Benjamin N. Cardozo School 
 COHN--Ruthie. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Ruthie Cohn, beloved sister of Nina Weiner. We extend our deepest condolences to Nina and her family Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 DICKSON--Joy, 84, of Stanfordville, NY, died peacefully on August 5, 2003 encircled by her loving family. Beloved wife of the late Charles Dickson, adored mother of Franklyn, Robin, and Joannie Sofer, loving grandmother of Laura, Ari, Rex, Jason, Michael, and Oren, and great grandmother of 
 ENNI--Theresa (nee Perreca), beloved wife of Serge Enni, passed to eternal life on August 2, 2003. A lovely lady of great compassion, love & kindness to all who knew her.       
 POULAKAKOS--Adrienne M. February 24, 1934-August 4, 2003. Beloved wife of Harry and mother of Peter passed from this life peacefully on August 4, 2003 after a short illness. Adrienne, who was the second child and only daughter of Alfred and Mary Alice Nahas, was born on February 24, 1934 in
 CARMEL--Miriam Ruth. On August 5, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Devoted mother of Kenneth, Frankliln and the late Robert and mother-in-law of Brenda and Judith. Cherished grandmother of Candace and Michael Barasch; Bradley; Alyssa; Jordana and Robert Getreu; and great-grandmother o
 KUPFERSTEIN--Fela (Feigele) nee Orenstein. On August 1, 2003. Born Warsaw, Poland 1917. Sole survivor of her family, neither the Nazis nor Russia's labor camps could stop her, she began a new life with her childhood sweetheart, Hershel. Met life's challenges with courage, intelligence, dete
 POSEN--Frances. Died on August 5, 2003 after a courageous battle with cancer. A true lover of life, Frances is survived by her children Deborah Sumber, Richard (Barbara) Posen; grandchildren Nicole and Juliana, brother Marvin Jaffe. She will be greatly missed by family and friends. Services
 SIMONS -- Nicholas. The Board, staff and children of East Harlem Tutorial Program mourn the untimely passing of Nicholas Simons. We extend our deepest condolences to our committed Trustee Marilyn Simons and her husband James. Our hearts go out to them in this time of sadness. Carmen Vega-Ri
 BATTEN--Kathryn Clark, 92, died Wednesday, August 6th, in Hilton Head, South Carolina. She was born in Gettysburg, Ohio, the daughter of Zachariah and Daisy Myers Clark. Mrs. Batten was a graduate of Ohio State University where she was President of the university YWCA and a member of Kappa 
 FURTH--Megan Louise. On July 30th, 2003 in Freiburg, Germany at the age of 31. Beloved daughter of Donna Wickham Furth and Frederick Paul Furth, and stepdaughter of Peggy Jane Furth. Loving sister of Darby Furth Bonomi and Ben Stearman Furth. Sister-in-law of Thomas V. Bonomi, Jr. Niece of 
 GETTENBERG--Frieda. The officers, board and staff of the Women's Division/American Technion Society express profound sorrow at the loss of Frieda Gettenberg. Frieda Gettenberg served as National Women's Division President. She loyally served on the Women's Division National Board, Executive
 KORTCHMAR -- Lucy (nee Cores). Died peacefully on Martha's Vineyard on August 6 at 91. Born in Moscow she came to the US at the age of nine and made a career as a graphic designer and later an author. She combined a warm and generous heart with a brilliant intellect. A loving wife of the la
 POST -- Jeannette. Beloved wife of Dr. Bernard Post (deceased); mother, great grandmother, twin sister of Israel M. Dolgin, aunt, great aunt, devoted friend. Her life's accomplishments are numerous; an attorney for nearly 70 years at a time when women weren't readily accepted, president of 
 PRAGER -- Esther Spiro, peacefully in her sleep on August 6, in her 99th year. Devoted wife of the late William W. Prager, beloved mother of William, Jr. and Ruth Cogen, mother-in-law of Edward Cogen, cherished grandmother of Karen Balliett, Emily Prager, Deborah Cogen Swartz and Mark Cogen
 MILLHISER -- Eleanor, McGue, 83, wife, mother and volunteer died August 7, 2003 at Memorial Regional Medical Center, Richmond, VA. Mrs. Millhiser born in Cleveland, Ohio was the daughter of Alfred J. McGue of Cleveland, Ohio and Rosina Steinbrecher McGue of Richmond and the sister of Jean V
 POST--Jeannette S. The family of Jeannette S. Post acknowledges with deep sadness the loss of its beloved wife, sister, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother. Born in Brooklyn in 1913, she grew up with her parents, sister and two brothers behind the family's grocery store. She graduated
 SONTAG--Rollin. The Aragon Board mourns the passing of Rollin Sontag. Our sincere condolences to Joan, her children and grandchildren. Lawrence Ackman, Dieter Rapp, Louise McNamee, Ian Haxell       
 ADLER -- Tanya Drucker. Died August 4, 2003. 95 years. Loving wife of the late Kurt Alfred Adler, M.D. Friend and inspiration to three generations of nieces, nephews and step-children. We will miss her caring, humor and advice. Beloved. Drucker and Adler Family       
 ERLE--Jane Hansi. Age 97, died peacefully on August 8. We mourn her loss and celebrate her long life. Her late husband Richard and their children Joan and Henry, Lola and Walter, their grandchildren Jeffrey Erle, David Erle, Debbie Ehrentreu, Steven Erle, Wendy Larson and their families, he
 GERSTEN -- Arlene. 65, daughter of the late Ruth and Jack Schleman. Loving wife of the late Norman Horowitz. Wife of the late Marvin Gersten. Devoted and caring mother of RuthAnne and Richard, and loving motherin-law of J.P. Olsen and Laurie. Adored grandmother of Hallie, Tyler, Samuel and 
 GOLDSTEIN--Gladys Anita (nee Lampel). Beloved wife of the late Murray. Adored mother of Diane (Richard) Cole, Myrna Goldstein-Pine, David Golstein and John Bolton. Cherished grandmother of Lisa Soraci, Michael Soraci, Scott & Cynthia Cherry, Howard & Denise Cherry and Melissa Cole. Loving g
 PRAGER -- Esther Spiro, peacefully in her sleep on August 6, in her 99th year. Devoted wife of the late William W. Prager, beloved mother of William, Jr. and Ruth Cogen, mother-in-law of Edward Cogen, cherished grandmother of Karen Balliett, Emily Prager, Deborah Cogen Swartz and Mark Cogen
 ROSENTHAL -- Edna, nee Lane, 85, of St. Thomas, USVI and Larchmont, NY on August 8, 2003. Beloved wife of Arthur, loving mother of Myrna and Arthur. Mother-in-law of Jacob and Judith. Devoted grandmother of Jonathan, Peter and Michael and greatgrandmother. We will miss her every day. Family
 SHENKER--Muriel nee Bober on August 2, 2003 in Scarsdale, NY after a courageous battle with her illness. Cherished mother of Marc, Neil and Jill. Adored grandmother of Marisa and Jade. Beloved sister of Cynthia Bober and Sheryl Fratell. Dear aunt of Meredyth and Harley. Graveside services w
 SUTTER--Beatrice Weinberger. August 10, 1992. Beautiful dancer, always in our thoughts and hearts. Her Children.       
 WIDES--Ruth. August 10, 2001. Remembered for her love, beauty and sage counsel. She is deeply missed       
 BUCHANAN -- Mary Jane. Passed away on August 10, 2003, after a long illness. She was 71. She lived in White Plains, NY, and Palm Beach, FL. Mary Jane was the greatest mom ever to daughter Suzanne Faupel and son-in-law Scott. She was adored by her granddaughter Bridgette, ''the love of her l
 ERLE--Jane Hansi. Age 97, died peacefully on August 8. We mourn her loss and celebrate her long life. Her late husband Richard and their children Joan and Henry, Lola and Walter, their grandchildren Jeffrey Erle, David Erle, Debbie Ehrentreu, Steven Erle, Wendy Larson and their families, he
 FERGUSON--Linda T. (nee Bublick). Died on August 2, 2003, in New York City. Wife of Percy, mother of David and Peter, mother-in-law of JoAnn. Daughter of the late Judith and David Bublick. She is dearly missed by family and friends. Private cremation.       
 KRASNA--Elaine Cyma (nee Cohen). On August 9, 2003. Loving daughter of the late Celia and Samuel Cohen. Beloved wife of Alvin Krasna. Loving sister of Ruth (Jerry) Wiener. Cherished mother of Susan (Steven) Goldstein, Gary (Judi) Krasna, Allen (Judy) Krasna. Beloved Mooma of Teri, Danielle,
 LAMM--Helen Powers. 98, died August 8, 2003, at her home in Greenwich, CT. Born in Cleveland, OH, she was the daughter of William Powers and Jennie Moran Powers. She graduated from Ursuline College in Cleveland. Married James E. Bourne of Havre, MT, in 1929. They lived in Phillipsburg, NJ, 
 GOLDSTEIN--Peggy Janet Rosenfeld. January 16, 1921August 9, 2003. Artist, author, educator. Survived by husband of 62 years, E. Ernest, son Daniel, daughter Susan Lipsitch, sister Ann Harris, five grandchildren and one great-grandchild. She will be sorely missed.       
 LAMM--Helen Powers. 98, died August 8, 2003, at her home in Greenwich, CT. Born in Cleveland, OH, she was the daughter of William Powers and Jennie Moran Powers. She graduated from Ursuline College in Cleveland. Married James E. Bourne of Havre, MT, in 1929. They lived in Phillipsburg, NJ, 
 MULDOON -- Sylvia Rivera del Moral, 67, died peacefully at home on August 10, 2003. Born in Mayaguez, Puerto Rico, March 17, 1936, Sylvia was the daughter of Francisco Rivera Camacho and RosaLinda del Moral de Rivera. Beloved wife of Thomas O. Muldoon, M.D. Loving mother of Brian Thomas, Sa
 TANZER--Jane. On August 11, 2003. Surrounded by her family in her special place, Lake Placid. Beloved wife of the late Leon. Devoted sister to Irene. Loving mother of Debbie, Bobby and Steven, devoted grandmother to Allison, Sarah, Adam, Dean, Jamie and Matthew. Beloved mother-in-law to Tom
 Martha Chase, who was half of a scientific team that in 1952 used a kitchen blender to help prove that DNA is the molecule that carries genetic information, died on Aug. 8 in Lorain, Ohio, a suburb of Cleveland. She was 75. The cause was pneumonia, said her sister, Ruth Daziel of Mi
 CABLE--Fran. August 2, 1931August 11, 2003. An outstanding woman we all respected and loved. We will miss her. Our heartfelt sympathy to her marvelous husband, Frank, her cherished mother Ruth Rosenwasser and her precious daughters Barbara and Kathi and grandchildren. Our love, Frannie's fr
 DECHTER--Helen. Beloved wife of the late Martin Dechter, loving mother of Phyllis and Steve Rafel and Warren Dechter, grandmother of Ellen, Tony and Kristina and great-grandmother of Jesse, Emily and Molly. Her incredible spirit and courage will be missed.       
 LEIPMAN--Doris J. of Largo, FL, beloved wife, mother, grandmother and friend, died of breast cancer on August 9, 2003 at the Fountains at Rivervue in Tuckahoe, NY. She was 80 years old. She is survived by her son, Ken Leipman of Marietta, GA; her daughter, Debra LeipmanYale of Armonk, NY; a
 McKEAN--Elizabeth L., 74, of New York on August 1, 2003 at New-York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. Though slight in stature, Bette McKean was large in courage, independence and heart. Born in Dixon City, PA. on June 10, 1929, Bette grew up during the Depression and World War II. After 
 MULDOON -- Sylvia. The Board of Trustees of Saint Vincent de Paul Residence, Kateri Residence and Saint Teresa's Nursing Home mourn the passing of their dedicated Trustee. Mrs. Muldoon was instrumental in the creation of Saint Vincent de Paul Residence and was a founding member of the Board
 RANDALL--Roslyn. December 29, 1925-August 11, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Sidney. Loving mother of Janet and Andrea, adored grandmother of Trevor, Samantha and Noa. Devoted sister of Warren and Arnold. Graveside service Thursday, August 14, 11 AM New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY. Do
 ROSENBERG--Marjorie. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Marjorie Rosenberg, and extends sincere sympathy to her family and friends. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 SONTAG--Rose. Age 94. Widow of Leo. A loving and devoted mother and mother-inlaw, proud grandmother, adoring great grandmother. Beloved, she loved us all. Services Thursday, August 14th, 12:30PM at ''Wien & Wien Memorial Chapels'', 402 Park Street, Hackensack, N.J.       
 STIGUM--Marcia. August 7, 2003. Beloved mother of Tove and Erik and loving wife of the late Allan Fox. Author of the critically acclaimed best seller ''The Money Market'' and acknowledged authority on the domestic money market and the Eurocurrency markets. A contribution in her honor can be
 STRAUSS--Louise. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Michael S. Strauss, chairman of the New York board, and Judy Levi on the loss of their beloved mother. Mrs. Strauss was a dignified and elegant woman whose life was dedicated to Jewish tradition and ethics, and who personified the valu
 TANZER--Jane. Died suddenly on August 11, 2003. Surrounded by her family in her special place, Lake Placid. Beloved wife of the late Leon. Devoted sister to Irene. Loving mother of Debbie, Bobby and Steven, devoted grandmother to Allison, Sarah, Adam, Dean, Jamie and Matthew. Beloved mother
 Yousra Abdel Raouf al-Kidwa, the sister of Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, died at the Palestine Hospital in Cairo today after a month of treatment for various disorders associated with old age, said the Palestinian ambassador to the Arab League, Muhammad Sobeih. She was 77. M
 Lady Diana Mosley, one of the famous Mitford sisters and a glamorous 1930's socialite who scandalously abandoned her husband, embraced fascism and married Sir Oswald Mosley, leader of the British Union of Fascists, died in Paris on Monday, her family said. She was 93. A spokeswoman 
 GREENBERG -- Lillian. Be loved sister of Celia Negrin, brother-in-law Leo Negrin, sister Ethel Kramer, late brother-in-law Alex Kramer, late brother Bernard Greenberg, nephew Dr. Mark Kramer and family, and friend of many. She was a very active woman and traveled extensively. Longtime activ
 LAUB--Julie. Beloved wife of Philippe, loving mother of Daniel, Talya and Ava, on behalf of our immediate and extended family, may she rest in peace. Services Thursday, August 14th, 10AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory may be made to
 METZ--Eleanor (nee Diener). We mourn the loss of our dear friend of forty years. Her life was a tribute to family and friends, Jewish values, love of community, teaching and mentoring, courage and making a difference. A woman of valor--we will miss you dearly. Our love to Gary, Stephen (And
 MURPHY--Eleanor Corcoran. Of Garden City, NY on August 13. Beloved wife of Edward L. and mother of Edward, Maryann, Francis, and Laura, and grandmother of 13. ''Bird'' will be dearly missed by all those whose lives she graced. Viewings Friday, August 15, 2-4 and 79PM at Fairchild Funeral Ho
 SILVER--Nettie (nee Zimmerman), 93, of New Rochelle, NY, died on August 12. Born in 1910 in Brooklyn, a longtime resident of New Rochelle. Graduated from New Rochelle High School in 1927. Married Murray Silver in 1938, they lived in New Rochelle for over 50 years. Her husband Murray died in
 COHEN--Ethel. On August 12, 2003. Beloved sister of Dorothy (Sweety) Levy and Harold (Sonny) Cohen. Sister-inlaw of Sonia Cohen. Also survived by nieces and nephews, great nieces and nephews and dear friends. She led a beautiful and active life, until an illness of six weeks. She was very g
 IT'S a beautiful day in the neighborhood  actually, that 2003 meteorological rarity, the sun, is shining -- and the uninitiated might imagine that this would give Kathy Bronander an easy sale. ''People think that because it's a sunny day, a Realtor can drive people around and sell a house, 
 CALLAHAN--Attorney Wendy E., of Boston, formerly of NYC, August 14, 2003, age 57. Beloved daughter of Jacqueline Callahan of Needham, MA and the late Francis T. Callahan. Devoted sister of Mark Callahan, Chad Callahan and Nancy Treves all of MA. Funeral from the George F. Doherty & Sons Fun
 FRIELICH--Edith on August 15, 2003 in her 93rd year. Beloved wife of the late Lester Deutsch and Meyer Frielich. Devoted mother of Jay and Rose Deutsch. Loving grandmother of Ellen Diamond and Karen Lustig. Cherished great-grandmother of Trevor and Phoebe Diamond and Lily Lustig. Services S
 Dr. Josefina B. Magno, an oncologist who established some of the first hospice programs in the United States and helped bring the hospice concept into the medical mainstream, died on July 27 in Manila. She was 83. Born in the Philippines, Dr. Magno moved to the Washington area in 19
 ENGLER--Berl. Passed away on August 15, 2003. Most beloved and precious husband of Joyce for 42 years. Cherished and devoted father of Pam and her husband Bruce. Proud and adoring grandfather to Alec and Harrison. Loving brother to Monte. Funeral service will be held Sunday, August 17, 10:3
 FASTENBERG--Eve. On August 15, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Fastenberg. Devoted mother Francine and Irwin Levine, Elaine and Leon Smith. Devoted grandmother of Lori, Karen, Daniel, Susan and Jessica. Proud great-grandmother of David, Julia and Benjamin. She will be missed by all. S
 LUBELL--Ruby. August 12, 2003. She is survived by her beloved husand of 62 years, Nathan Lubell. Mother of Sharon (Ken) Bolog, Gail (Lyle) Gillis, Kathy (Martin) Randell and the late Ronnie Itzler (Ronald). Grandmother of Richard, Erik, Jason, Nicole, Felice, Jane, Hy, Heather, Corey and Br
 PREGER--Rachel. On August 8, 2003 in her 96th year. Survived by her adoring children, Barbara and Lou Kahn, Teaneck, NJ, Mickey and Judy Preger, Camden, SC, grandchildren and great-grandson. Devoted wife of the late Paul D. Preger. Teacher, mentor. Woman of great strength, integrity and gen
 TIMPSON -- Priscilla (nee Goodrich), PhD. Psychologist and lifelong patron of the arts, died on Sunday August 10 at her house in Connecticut after a long illness. Her varied interests and passions included sailing, mycology, and oenology. Priscilla, as she was known to her friends and famil
 Laura Rapaport Borsten, who was in the first group of 40 recruits accepted to be a Wave, a member of the women's Navy corps, died on Aug. 11 at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 91. Her husband, Orin, said Mrs. Borsten, who lived in Los Angeles, kept up with other veterans and beli
 FASTENBERG--Eve. On August 15, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Arthur Fastenberg. Devoted mother Francine and Irwin Levine, Elaine and Leon Smith. Devoted grandmother of Lori, Karen, Daniel, Lauren, Susan and Jessica. Proud great-grandmother of David, Julia and Benjamin. She will be missed b
 HOLLOWAY -- Patricia. 1938-2003. Patricia Holloway's co-workers at CB Richard Ellis deeply mourn her passing on August 14. She warmed our hearts for nearly 17 years with her irrepressible smile and sunny disposition. She was a friend to everyone and her absence will leave an emotional void 
 ROTH--Jessie Merrill. Of Rye, NY, formerly of New Rochelle, NY, passed away on Saturday, August 16, 2003, at the Osborn Memorial Home in Rye, NY. She was 98. For further information please contact the Graham Funeral Home of Rye, NY; 914967-0129.       
 RUBEL--Tillie. It is with profound sadness that we mourn the passing of our much beloved Tillie Rubel, peacefully in her sleep at home on August 15, 2003, at the age of 103. She was a courageous and remarkable force in all of our lives. She was the dear wife of the late Louis Rubel; devoted
 WITTENSTEIN--Aileen C. An extraordinary and dearly loved woman, Aileen died on August 17, 2003, at age 75. She was the beloved wife of the late Arthur Wittenstein; loving mohter of Andrew Wittenstein, Kate Wittenstein and Jessica Barranco; dearest mother-in-law of Vicki Wittenstein, Greg Ka
 BONGIORNO--Eve, known to all as ''Gogie'', died August 17, 2003 at age 91. She had a capacity for love that brought something special into everyone's life. Her children, Marilyn and Joey, her grandchildren, Susan (and Max), Robert (and Barbara), Robert (and Susan), Lauren, and Howard (and E
 CARRET -- Bette. Passed away on August 7th, 2003 at her home in New York City. Wife of the late Gerard Osgood Carret, she is survived by her sister Lynda Bibee McCraw of Lynchburg, VA., two nieces Gabrielle and Katrina, a nephew Timothy and many cousins.       
 COHEN--Etta (Lotenberg). 90. Beloved wife of Bernard, mother of Steven, sister of Sylvia and Jerry and grandmother of Sherry and Jason, died on August 18 at her home in Princeton, NJ.       
 EGOR--Kathryn. Died August 8 after a brief illness. Mrs. Egor is survived by her husband Boris of Manhasset, NY, daughter Judith of NYC, son Gregory of Roslyn, granddaughter Julia of Manhasset and two sisters, Beatrice Marz of Malverne and Anne Jackson Wallach of NYC. There will be a privat
 FRIEDMAN--Dr. Sylvia N. JBI International (formerly The Jewish Braille Institute) is deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed, Honorary Vice President, Dr. Sylvia N. Friedman. Our heartfelt condolences are with the family. Together with her beloved husband, Harold, she advanced the we
 FRIEDMAN--Sylvia N. The HIAS (Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society) family mourns the loss of Dr. Sylvia N. Friedman, of New York. An active Jewish community leader, Dr. Friedman had served on the HIAS board since 1980 and was made an honorary member in 1998. She was active with several causes on t
 HERSON--Pearl, of White Plains, New York died peacefully at home on August 15, 2003. Mrs. Herson was born on May 24, 1929 in Regina, Saskatchewan. She studied Interior Design at the University of Manitoba. She was an active member of Bet Am Shalom Synagogue, The Crohn's & Colitis Foundation
 HOLLOWAY -- Patricia. 1938-2003. Patricia Holloway's co-workers at CB Richard Ellis deeply mourn her passing on August 14. She warmed our hearts for nearly 17 years with her irrepressible smile and sunny disposition. She was a friend to everyone and her absence will leave an emotional void 
 HYMAN--Myron. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Muriel Hyman, Joan Konas and Arthur Hyman on the passing of her beloved son and their cherished brother. As a Golden Founder of the Medical Center, Mrs. Hyman personifies the highest values of Jewish tradition and ethics. May the entire f
 LEVBARG--Ann-Louise. Beloved mother of Diane Levbarg Klein. Grandmother of Michele Beth Levbarg Klein, mother-in-law of Martin I. Klein. Died after a long illness at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale. Born in Utica, N.Y., Ann's vivacious personality and zest for life will be remembe
 LOGAN--Margaret, 93, died on August 16, 2003. She retired from Shearman & Sterling in NYC in 1980 where she was an accountant. Visitation will be held on Saturday, August 23, 2003 from 10:00 A.M. until mass time at Gallaway & Crane Funeral Home, 101 S. Finley Ave., Basking Ridge. For direct
 MUROV--Alice Louise. With deep sorrow, we announce that Alice Louise Murov, of Tide Pointe, Hilton Head Island, S.C. and NYC, passed away peacefully at her daughter's home in NYC, at the age of 94. Daughter of the late Mary & William Gully and the beloved wife of the late Sidney Murov and d
 PETTIFORD--Patricia M. of New York City, on August 16, 2003. Beloved daughter of the late Walter and Virginia. Niece of Katherine Patterson of Dayton, OH. Ms. Pettiford leaves a host of beloved friends who have sustained her through her long illness. Funeral from Walter B. Cooke Funeral Hom
 RUBEL--Tillie. NCJW NY Section mourns the passing of Tillie Rubel, beloved mother of our esteemed Board member, Estelle Hochman. Sincerest condolences to all of her loving family. Natalie Katz, Pres. Judith Golub, Exec. Dir.       
 SARNA--Anita Liberman of Wyckoff, N.J. and Boca Raton, FL, on August 19, 2003. Survived by her husband Philip and her son James and his wife Toby Ellen, daughter Stacy, sister Roberta Hecht and her husband Arthur, mother-in-law Rita Rudman and her husband Syd, grandchildren Natasha and Benj
 WITTENSTEIN--Aileen C. An extraordinary and dearly loved woman, Aileen died on August 17, 2003, at the age of 75. She was the beloved wife of the late Arthur Wittenstein; loving mother of Andrew Wittenstein, Kate Wittenstein and Jessica Barranco; dearest mother-in-law of Vicki Wittenstein, 
 ABRAHAM--Rita (Kallus). 77, passed away on August 15, 2003 in NYC. Wife of the late Roy, she is survived by her sons, Andrew of Jerusalem, Israel and Philip of NYC. Beloved grandmother of 13 grandchildren. Donations can be made in her name to the International Myeloma Foundation at www.myel
 BERMAN -- Bertha. Died peacefully on Monday, August 18, after a long illness. Survived by her beloved husband, Ralph, and their three loving daughters, Barbara, Heller and Teena. Devoted mother-in-law to Paul, Owen and Joshua and dear grandmother to Alex and Peter. Private burial on Thursda
 FRIEDMAN -- Sylvia. The Board and Staff of The New York Association for New Americans (NYANA) are deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Sylvia N. Friedman, who served as President of the Board in the 1980's and was a valued Board member of NYANA for more than 25 years. Dr. Friedman was pred
 MIMRAN--Armand. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of Sandra Smith. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Andrew Mendes, President Rachel Lurie, Sisterhood       
 SIEGEL -- Shirley. Beloved aunt of Paul, devoted psychotherapist. Condolences to all her friends, colleagues and patients. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Chapel, 180 W 76 St, Sunday, August 24, 11:15AM. All are welcome to attend. Burial to follow at Sharon Gardens Cemetery.     
 Roxie C. Laybourne, whose scientific investigations into bird collisions with airplanes helped start forensic ornithology and enabled engineers to develop aircraft capable of withstanding such accidents, died on Aug. 7 at her farm in Manassas, Va. She was 92. In 1960, when a plane c
 Nadia Younes, an Egyptian who was chief of staff for the senior United Nations representative in Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello, died in the bomb attack in Baghdad on Monday, the United Nations said on Wednesday. She was 57. Mr. Vieira de Mello also died in the attack. Earlier
 HAPPY--Lynn W. August 20, 2003 at age 40. Beloved wife of Robert C. Happy, Jr. and mother of Katherine Grace. Loving daughter of Gail and Elden Wenstrom and sister of Gwen, Beth, Gail, Claire and John. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, Friday August 22 from 2
 KLEIN--Estelle. A wonderful wife, mother, sister, motherin-law, grandmother, greatgrandmother and friend. She touched the lives of all who knew her, and she lived her life to the fullest. We love you, and we will miss you. Services Sunday, August 24, 11:45 AM at '' The Riverside'', 76th St.
 KLONSKY--Shirley (nee Hirschkorn). Devoted wife of Sam Klonsky. Mother of Stanley Shindler, David and Kenneth Klonsky, Joan Ustin. Sister of Mitchell Hirschkorn. Grandmother of four, greatgrandmother of one. Died on August 20rd, 2003 at JFK Hospital in Boynton Beach, FL. We miss her caring 
 PASCHAL--Helen Weld, 65, died August 21, 2003. Mrs. Paschal is survived by her husband, Guy Paschal and daughters Eleanor P. Reich, Cecily Jay Casey, Elizabeth P. Alrick, Dorothy P. Henderson and Emilie Bourne Paschal, and by six grandchildren. Mrs. Paschal was the daughter of Edward Motley
 SIEGEL -- Shirley. Beloved aunt of Paul, devoted psychotherapist. Condolences to all her friends, colleagues and patients. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Chapel, 180 W 76 St, Sunday, August 24, 11:15AM. All are welcome to attend. Burial to follow at Sharon Gardens Cemetery.     
 TEICH -- Katherine (nee Blakeley) on August 21, 2003. Beloved wife of Mark, loving mother of David and Simon. Cherished daughter of Marion and the late Christopher Blakeley. Dear sister of Cindi Kane. Her strength, wisdom and love will sustain us forever. In lieu of flowers, contributions m
 SIEGEL -- Shirley. Beloved aunt of Paul, devoted psychotherapist. Condolences to all her friends, colleagues and patients. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Chapel, 180 W 76 St, Sunday, August 24, 11:15AM. All are welcome to attend. Burial to follow at Sharon Gardens Cemetery.     
 COOPER -- Emily Binger. Aged 46, on July 16 after a long illness at her home in Pembroke, NH. At the time of her death she was a guidance counselor at Pembroke Academy (the local public high school). She served on the Budget Committee of her town and on the Board of Directors of the Granite
 DULWORTH--Vera Reesor. Born April 21, 1901 Kevil, Kentucky. Died August 20, 2003, Jackson, Michigan, age 102. An extraordinary woman. Her children are Anita Burck, Jack, Bill, Jim, Edward, and Carolyn Sue, deceased 1934. She was proud of 23 grandchildren, 55 great-grandchildren and two grea
 FLANAGAN--Gloria. Wife of Peter Flanagan, President Emeritus of the Life Insurance Council of New York, died Friday, August 22, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Center from Cancer. She had eight children, Joseph, Elizabeth, Donna, Peter J., Jeremy, Arthur, John and Patrick. Daughters - in - law,
 FOSS--Mae Chandlee, of Naples, FL died August 12, 2003. Mrs. Foss, who was 88, was born in Moylan, PA. Known to her friends as ''Sissy,'' she was the widow of Wilson Perkins Foss. For most of her life she lived in Katonah, NY and Nantucket, MA. Mrs. Foss was a member of numerous organizatio
 KALSMAN -- Lee. Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion records with profound sorrow the death of Lee Kalsman, a beloved friend and generous benefactor of the College. She and her late husband, Irving, dedicated their lives to the singular issue of Judaism and healing. First, they
 KIRSCHBERG--Reva. (nee Godlove) 81, died August 22 at Roosevelt Hospital on Tenth Avenue. She suffered a stroke on August 20 while attending a Mostly Mozart concert at Lincoln Center. Mrs. Kirschberg was a renowned historian of Jewish art and Judaica. She was a founder and the first directo
 KLEIN--Estelle. A great woman--so accomplished, loving and kind to all fortunate enough to have known her. Our deepest condolences to Alvin, Sherry, Dean, Jill, Jeffrey, Jennifer and Zachery. Love, Denise Kranz, Charles Katz & David Kranz KLEIN--Estelle. Our dear friend, a courageou
 MISHKIN--Sara B. Cherished wife of Irving. Beloved mother of Barry and Marypat, Jeffrey and Rochelle, Debra and Gabriel Sganga and six grandchildren. Of all her accomplishments she was most dedicated to Hadassah where she was a member of the National Board for many years until health failed
 OCHS--Sue. 54, died on August 18, 2003, in San Francisco, CA. A loving mother, energetic grandmother, dutiful daughter, caring and generous friend, and exceptional civil rights lawyer. She approached life with creativity and simplicity. We will miss her.       
 SIEGEL -- Shirley. Beloved aunt of Paul, devoted psychotherapist. Condolences to all her friends, colleagues and patients. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Chapel, 180 W 76 St, Sunday, August 24, 11:15AM. All are welcome to attend. Burial to follow at Sharon Gardens Cemetery.     
 ZELMAN--Beatrice. On August 21, peacefully at home. Loving wife of the late Dave, adored and adoring mother of Marilynn Sternchuss and Dr. Jerry, and special mother-in-law. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother. Services private. Many thanks to her special aides, Derneshe and Mary.   
 Connie Reeves, who was very likely America's oldest cowgirl, died in San Antonio on Aug. 17, 12 days after she was thrown from her horse, Dr Pepper. She was 101. She was riding her favorite horse, a 28-year-old paint, on the morning of Aug. 5 when Dr Pepper threw her over its head. 
 Generosa Ammon Pelosi, the widow of R. Theodore Ammon, a millionaire Manhattan financier who was killed at his home on Long Island in 2001, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 46. The cause was breast cancer, said Paul B. Bergman, the lawyer for Daniel Pelosi
 KATZ--Evelyn. 86, August 24, 2003. Beloved wife of Harry. Devoted and loving sister to Doris, Arthur and Martin. Cherished aunt to two generations of nieces and nephews. A graduate of New York University, Evelyn worked as an accountant and later taught math in the Lawrence school system. Fo
 McGINNIS--Carolyn, 60, of NYC and Allenhurst, NJ, died Saturday. She was manager of Administrative Services for Howard Hughes Medical Institute sites at Rockefeller U., Memorial Sloan-Kettering and NYU. She graduated from Rosemont, worked for Memorial Sloan-Kettering as administrator of the
 MENGER--Eleanor May McAuliffe. Of Chatham, N.J. and Manalapan, FL., formerly of Short Hills, and Mantoloking, N.J. Wife of the late Carl S. Menger, former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer for Triangle Industries. Mother of John McAuliffe Menger of New Vernon, N.J., Eugene C
 SANCHEZ--Regina, 78. Of Greenwich, CT. Passed away August 23, 2003. Survived by her husband, her six children and sixteen grandchildren. Friends may call at the Knapp & Son Funeral Home, 267 Greenwich Ave, Greenwich, CT., 3-5 & 7-9PM today. A mass will be held Wednesday, 10:30AM in Saint Pe
 TIERNEY--Marge. In loving memory of my dear friend Marge. Her caring and dedication to those less fortunate inspired everyone. To her family, colleagues, friends and the disabled whom she served, she was an example of love and acceptance. Her untimely death is an incalculable loss. We shall
 TISHLER--Anne (Cohen), 70, of New York City and Milford, PA. Died on August 24 after a long illness. Friends are invited for a gathering on Wednesday, August 27 from 2 to 4PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Born in Philadelphia, Mrs. Tishler lived in the Chicago area for ma
 Nina Fonaroff, an early Martha Graham dancer and a choreographer and teacher, died on Aug. 14 at a hospital in London, where she lived. She was 89. Born in New York, Ms. Fonaroff began her dance training at 11 with Michel Fokine and Vera Fokina, his wife, and studied the Isadora Dun
 CRAWFORD -- Eunice. Of Liberty Corner, New Jersey, and Rockville Centre, NY. An active AGO organist, musician, family matriarch, and devout Christian, we wish her spirit a safe journey onward. Memorial service Thursday August 28, 2003 at 2 P.M. at The Presbyterian Church, Liberty Corner, Ne
 GREY--Florence Maier, 81, of cancer on August 21, 2003. Florence Maier was a top fashion illustrator for 50 years. Her clients included Bergdorf Goodman, Saks Fifth Avenue, B. Altman, Macy's, Gimbel's, Women's Wear Daily, the New York Times Magazine, Seventeen Magazine, Jacobsen's departmen
 MEYER--Carolyn S., 91, died August 26, 2003, in Columbia, S.C., and previously lived in Glen Head, and Katonah, NY. Mayflower descendant and graduate of Westover School, wife of J. Edward Meyer, Jr., deceased, and devoted grande-dame of the family, sons, J. Edward Meyer III, and D. Swing Me
 STRICKMAN -- Rosemary. Died on August 25th at her home in Rancho Mirage, CA of pancreatic cancer. Beloved wife and best friend of 56 years to Arthur, adored mother of Ellen Walsh (Michael), Wendy Hoffman (Ted) and Nancy Stein (Bradley). Devoted RoRo to Arthur, Zachary, William and Perry. Go
 Jinx Falkenburg, one of America's highest paid cover-girl models during World War II, and later, with her husband, Tex McCrary, a pioneer talk-show star on both radio and television, died on Wednesday in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 84 and lived in the nearby village of Mill Neck. She di
 ABRAHAM--Ruth. We regret to announce the passing of our dear mother, mother-inlaw, grandmother and great grandmother. Interment was in Israel on Tuesday, August 26. The traditional seven days of mourning began in Israel and will continue at her last residence 578 Trysting Pl, Cedarhurst, NY
 ECCLES--Mary Morley Crapo Hyde, Viscountess. Died peacefully at home, Four Oaks Farm, on 26 August 2003. A memorial service will be scheduled for a later date. ECCLES--Viscountess Mary. The Council of the Grolier Club mourns the loss of longtime member, distinguished colleague and d
 HUNTER--Lisette Verea, of New York City, died peacefully at home on Wednesday, August 27. Survived by her sister, Bella Dimian, and her brothers, Leonard Verea and Beno Verea. Service at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, New York City, at 1:00 P.M. on Thursday, August 2
 KESSLER--Gloria. We mourn the passing of our cherished Gloria Kessler. Beloved wife of Sidney. Loving mother of Alison, Jerry and Eric. Dear sister of Muriel and Paula. Devoted grandmother of Marc, Howard, Beth, Craig, Barry, Scott, Jason and Brandon. Adored aunt, mother-inlaw and friend to
 McCRARY--Jinx Falkenburg. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing and celebrates the extraordinary life of Jinx Falkenburg McCrary. Mrs. McCrary and her late husband John ''Tex'' McCrary were among the founders of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, NY.
 SANDERS--Lesley Spring. An unforgettable woman, bright, beautiful, creative and caring. A shining light extinguished at the too young age of 54. Resident of New York City and Litchfield, Conn. Devoted and beloved wife of Steven A. Sanders. Precious mother of Geoffrey and wife, Debbie. Darli
 SCHNEIDER--Yetta. Of Long Beach, N.Y. March 23, 1904August 25, 2003. Survivers include her sons Jack, Robert and Ira Schneider, seven grandchildren and 11 greatgrandchildren. Graveside services will be held at Beth Moses Cemetery, Pinelawn, N.Y. on August 28, 2003 at 11 AM.       
 ZIFERSTEIN--Barbara Shapiro. A native of New York, died in Los Angeles at age 92. Bess was a gifted pianist (a child prodigy). She will be sorely missed.       
 BERSON--Paula. (nee Winter). Author and illustrator, on August 25, 2003. Predeceased by her beloved husband, author-illustrator Harold Berson, survived by her loving nephews Andrew, Jed and John Feffer, sister-in-law, Edith Berson Feffer, & friend since 1946, Anita Feldman.       
 CHWATT -- Mara Tower. Went peacefully in her sleep on August 28, 2003. Although her time here was short, a mere 64 years, her impact on this world was tremendous. She was a devoted sister, a beloved aunt, and a most cherished friend. Mara is the beloved mother of Glenn and Lori Chwatt, Suza
 ECCLES--Mary Morley Crapo Hyde, Viscountess. Died peacefully at home, Four Oaks Farm, on 26 August 2003. A memorial service will be scheduled for a later date. ECCLES--Mary, Viscountess. The Trustees, Fellows, and staff of The Pierpont Morgan Library mourn the death of Mary Eccles, 
 MACHNIKOFF--Sophie, beloved wife of the late William, passed away in her 90th year. Loving mother of Dorothy and Philip, grandmother and great-grandmother. Always charitable, committed and personable. She will be missed by all who knew her. Services today 10:15AM at Sinai Chapels, Queens, N
 McCRARY--Jinx Falkenburg. It is with profound sorrow that the Board of Directors of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with deep sorrow the passing of Jinx Falkenberg McCrary, our longtime friend and a founding member of UCP/NYC. We extend our deepest sympathy to her sons, Michael,
 MILLER--Pearl C. With deep sorrow, the Cohen family announces the sudden passing of our beloved Pearl on August 28, 2003. As the ''First Lady'' of Tranquillity Camp, she was beloved by the countless children whose lives she changed forever. Services will be held on Sunday, August 31, 2003, 
 SANDERS -- Lesley Spring. Our precious daughter has left us. Our hearts are broken. We have been weakened losing you. But strengthened by so many beautiful memories that will last forever. No day will go by without thoughts of you. We were blessed with the special joys and pride you brought
 SMITH--Nora O'Leary. Devoted wife of the late John J. died peacefully in Salt Lake City on August 19 at age 86. Survived by her four children, Stephen G., Wendy Born, Nancy Nebeker and Richard N., and twelve grandchildren. Services private.       
 IN the eye of the festive hurricane that is the annual Caribbean parade on Labor Day, that soca-blaring, steel-drum-banging, sequins-and-feathers annual cavalcade down Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn, sits a not-a-bit ruffled Yolanda Lezama-Clark, R.N. No, she is not the medical officer
 Mary Viscountess Eccles, a bibliophile who built up what is widely considered the world's finest collection of rare books and manuscripts relating to Samuel Johnson and his biographer and friend, James Boswell, died on Aug. 26 at her home, Four Oakes Farm, in Somerset County, N.J. She was 9
 CHWATT -- Mara Tower. Went peacefully in her sleep on August 28, 2003. Although her time here was short, a mere 64 years, her impact on this world was tremendous. She was a devoted sister, a beloved aunt, and a most cherished friend. Mara is the beloved mother of Glenn and Lori Chwatt, Suza
 DORSEY--Janie (New), 79, of Bay Harbor, Florida, passed away Sunday, August 24, 2003. She is the widow of the late Big Band Leader Tommy Dorsey who passed away in 1956. Graveside service will be held today at Kensico Cemetery, Valhalla, New York where she will be interred next to her husban
 MILLER--Pearl C. Beloved daughter of the late Charles Cohn and Bella Cohen Cohn, adored sister of Seymour Cohn and the late Mildred Cohn, Maurice Cohn, Irene Colvin and Sylvan Lawrence, devoted and loyal wife of the late Henry Miller, and cherished aunt and great-aunt to each and every memb
 SCHILD--Marion, August 28, 2003 at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale. She is remembered with love by her nieces and their husbands, her grand nieces and nephews, her surviving cousins and friends all over the world.       
 TAYLOR--Carol. Prize-winning reporter for World Telegram and Sun for 25 years, died August 28 in St. Petersburg, Florida at 89. She was among the journalism students expelled from Louisiana State in the 30's when the school newspaper criticized political boss Huey Long. In 1957, she was the
 BEEKMAN--Nancy B., of South Shaftsbury, VT and Palm City, FL, passed away on August 28th at Albany Medical Center from injuries incurred in an automobile accident. She leaves her beloved husband of 50 years, Philip E. Beekman, three children, Elizabeth E. Beekman of Providence, RI, Leslie B
 CHWATT -- Mara Tower. Went peacefully in her sleep on August 28, 2003. Although her time here was short, a mere 64 years, her impact on this world was tremendous. She was a devoted sister, a beloved aunt, and a most cherished friend. Mara is the beloved mother of Glenn and Lori Chwatt, Suza
 ECCLES--Mary Hyde. The American Trust for the British Library extends its deep sympathy to the family of Lady Eccles who, with her late husband Viscount David Eccles, was long intimately involved with the Library. She was a most generous supporter of it and of the American Trust. The David 
 KALLIN--Alexandra (Kallinikidou), of Manhattan, died at Lenox Hill Hospital on August 28, 2003 from congestive heart failure. She was the daughter of Eleni and Vasilios Kallinikidou and was born in Chalcedon, Turkey on November 27, 1906. She is survived by a niece, Helen Moneo, a nephew, Ni
 MACHNIKOFF--Sophie. We are deeply saddened by the passing of Sophie Machnikoff, beloved mother of our friend and partner, Philip Machnikoff, and of Dorothy Fox. Mrs. Machnikoff was known by all for her exuberant personality, commitment to family and charitable deeds. We extend our heartfelt
 MARLOW--Marilyn E. 75, of NYC, died on August 25th, 2003. Beloved daughter of Clifford and Ella Marlow of Waterloo, IA. B.A. University of Northern Iowa, M.A. English, University of Michigan. Executive Vice President, Curtis Brown Ltd. literary agency. She devoted her career to children's a
 MILLER--Pearl C. Beloved daughter of the late Charles Cohn and Bella Cohen Cohn, adored sister of Seymour Cohn and the late Mildred Cohn, Maurice Cohn, Irene Colvin and Sylvan Lawrence, devoted and loyal wife of the late Henry Miller, and cherished aunt and great-aunt to each and every memb
 SMITH--Lorraine Ina. On August 29, in Fairfax, VA. Born November 12, 1922, to Molly Weisblum and Charles Waldman in Brooklyn, NY. A talented singer and actress, she studied voice at the Juilliard School, attended Queens College and graduated from Northwestern University (BS Speech, '45). Sh
 SOGG--Barbara (nee Lavigne). Suddenly on August 29, 2003. Beloved wife of Jonathan S. Sogg. Sister of Allan and Paul Lavigne. Devoted to Jonny's children, Cathy (Christopher) Lawrence and Julie Seymour and their children Alexander, Zoe and Charles Lawrence and Annabel Seymour. A woman of st
 STORCH--Norma on August 28, 2003. Beloved wife of Larry. Loving mother of Lary, Candace and June. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Daniel, Sarah, Justin, Adrianna and Daniel. A Memorial Service will be held at her home Friday, September 19, 6 PM. In lieu of flowers, send contributions to t
 STRICKMAN -- Rosemary. Died on August 25th at her home in Rancho Mirage, CA of pancreatic cancer. Beloved wife and best friend of 56 years to Arthur, adored mother of Ellen Walsh (Michael), Wendy Hoffman (Ted) and Nancy Stein (Bradley). Devoted RoRo to Arthur, Zachary, William and Perry. Go
