 A. J. Levinson, who pressed a national campaign to improve what she called ''the quality of death'' by promoting living wills, and who educated both professionals and the public on ways to bring dignity to dying, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. The cause was wid
 BERNSTEIN-Linda. To Mother Pearl: Thank you for bringing Linda into this world and making it possible for me to share life with the girl of my dreams. She had it all, and she gave it all, everyday. I know your pain. May God bless and keep our little girl safe and warm enternally. Marshall  
 GREEN-Aaron. With deep sorrow The Kramer Family mourns the passing of our beloved cousin. May Mildred, her children and grandchildren derive solace from Aaron's legacy of Ahavas Eretz Yisroel and Ahavas Habrios. Kramer Family Reunion Comm.       
 PULLANO-Joyce, M.D. Friends & colleagues of Dr. Joyce Pullano, President of the Medical Board at New York Community Hospital of Brooklyn, mourn her passing. New York Presbyterian Health Care System Herbert Pardes, M.D., President & CEO Arthur Klein, M.D. Senior VP & COO       
 ROZETT-Cynthia. It is with great sorrow that the Board of Trustees, League, Administration and Staff of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care and Rehabilitation mourn the passing of Cynthia Rozett, past President of Parker League & member of the Parker Board of Trustees. Cynthia was an ex
 SILVERMAN-Annie Bronstein. The Metropolitan Montessori School community is deeply saddened by the loss of Annie Bronstein Silverman. Annie will be remembered for her wonderful smile, generous heart and her immense capacity to love. Our sympathies to her husband, Larry; her son, Micky; and a
 Lenore Patricia Kroh Freudenheim, a flower arranging expert and author of four books on the subject, died on April 26 in Longboat Key, Fla. She was 97 and lived in Longboat Key. The holder of diplomas from four schools of Japanese flower arranging, she taught and lectured widely and
 Torunn Atteraas Garin, a chemical engineer who worked on notable food projects, died last Friday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 54 and also had a home on Tortola, in the British Virgin Islands. She cause was lung cancer, her family said. Working for General Foods fr
 ARMSTRONG-Dr. Christine Megan, 50, died April 28, 2002, at Presbyterian Village, Austell, GA. Christine will be remembered with great love and affection by her family and friends. Her death was the result of a long, courageous and dignified battle with brain cancer, which was diagnosed and 
 HUSE-Mary, New York, NY. Died on April 30, 2002 in Greenville, SC. Surviving are her husband, Rupert Huse, children and grandchildren.       
 KLEIN - Lenore. The Jewish Museum notes with much sadness the passing of Lenore Klein, a devoted and long-standing volunteer who, together with her beloved late husband Howard, was a generous donor and ardent supporter of our exhibitions. She will be missed by staff and volunteers alike. Jo
 LEVINSON-A-J. The Board of Directors of The New York Citizens' Committee on Health Care Decisions is deeply saddened by the loss of founding and cherished Board Member, A-J, whose wise counsel, committed support and bounding spirit will be sorely missed. Beatrice W. Greenbaum, M.P.H., Chair
 PRYOR-Ellen Ach. On May 1, 2002. Of Forest Hills, NY. Born November 27, 1915 in Brooklyn, NY. Former Director Deer Park, N.Y. Library. Beloved mother of Alan, Gerald and David. Devoted to her six grandchildren. Visiting 2-5 and 7-9PM Friday at Fox Funeral Home, Forest Hills. Funeral Mass at
 SILVERMAN-Nancy (nee Mergentime). Beloved wife of Irving, dear sister of Molly Bayer, devoted mother of Suzy Weisman, Ellen Siegel, William Silverman, Peggy Friedland and loving grandmother of Jolie, Deb, David, Erica, Daniel and Johana. She was our family queen. We will forever cherish her
 ADDEO-Julia, nee Durante. Passed from this world on May 1, 2002, at age 106. A sweet, gentle woman who was loved by all. Mother of the late John, the late Alfred, the late Gloria Messina, the late Eugene, Anita Shargay, the late Joseph, and Richard; grandmother of 20 and great-grandmother o
 FURMAN-Evelyn. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Rabbi Mordecai Waxman Steven Markowitz, President       
 KRAMER-Angela Frances Allen. Died May 2, 2002 after a long illness. She is survived by her mother, Terry Allen Kramer, her sister, Toni Allen Goutal, her brother Nathaniel Charles Allen Kramer, and 7 nieces & nephews.       
 LAMPUTT-Moya. On April 20th, 2002. Actress, dancer and model. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Tuesday, May 7th, 12 noon. Interment to follow at Woodlawn Cemetery. Contributions in her memory may be made to the American Cancer Society.       
 McCARTHY-Sr. Miriam Dolores. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity of Mount Saint Vincent, died Wednesday, May 1, 2002 at Convent of Mary the Queen. Born in Brooklyn, she was the daughter of the late William and Josephine Sullivan McCarthy. Her sister, Muriel Jones, and her brother, Will
 MILGROM-Ida. JCRC NY/Coalition for Soviet Jewry sorrowfully mourn the passing of Ida Milgrom, mother of Natan Sharansky, Deputy Prime Minister of Israel. An ardent fighter for freedom, she imparted enormous strength to her family, the Soviet Jewry movement and human rights advocates around 
 MOSS-Rochelle. Living and loving life, your strong spirit will be with all who loved you forever. From Brooklyn to New Jersey to Manhattan, you spread your warmth to all who came near. Your children, Amy, Bari and Adam, kiss you always. Grandma to Sophie, Stella, Eliza and Zoe, sister of Ma
 PECK-Dorothy Dunham. Died Tuesday, April 30, in Jacksonville, Florida. She was born in 1906 in Brooklyn, NY, the daughter of Fredrick Cool & Alma Gelhausen Dunham. She attended the Berkley School in Brooklyn, New Rochelle, NY, High School, and graduated from Wellesley College in 1927. Alway
 SILVERMAN-Nancy. A lovely lady-our dear friend. We will miss her. Our heartfelt sympathy to Irving and family. Leah and Harry Brochstein       
 TARADASH-Janet Beth. Age 48, on May 2, 2002. Beloved daughter of Blanche, dear sister of Mitchel, aunt of Leah. A generous and considerate friend who inspired those whose life she touched. Graduate of Pratt Institute, Janet was an award-winning graphic designer for Asia Society, Con Edison 
 Barbara Anne Castle, a onetime Labor cabinet minister and determined socialist whose radical, ill-timed attempt to tame Britain's mighty trade unions doomed her political career, died yesterday. She was 91. She died peacefully in her sleep at her home in Buckinghamshire, her family 
 GARIN-Torunn Atteraas. Died peacefully at home on April 26, 2002 surrounded by the ones she most loved; her three sons Kristoffer Atteraas Garin, Aleksander Atteraas Garin, Nickolas Atteraas Garin, and her husband Michael. A memorial service will be held 11AM Monday, May 6th at Scandinavia 
 WHITE-Eileen Kerrill. A caring kid sister, a wonderful friend, whose mind and wit brought joy to many. Her spirit lives on in these lovely memories. Her loving brothers, Philip and Rober       
 Sharon Anne Hogan, a Chicago university librarian who helped usher the country's libraries into the electronic age, died on April 27 while convalescing with friends in Paradise Valley, Ariz. She was 57 and lived in suburban Oak Brook. The cause was cancer, said the University of Ill
 Davida S. Herwitz, who built a major collection of modern art from India with her husband, Chester, died on Sunday in a hospital in Rockville, Md. She was 71 and lived in Worcester, Mass. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, her family said. The Herwitzes fi
 ALCALAY-Frances. Born August 18, 1915 died April 22, 2002. Beloved wife, mother and grandmother. She will be in our hearts forever.       
 BUSHNELL-Helen Gilbert. Died April 8th in Honolulu, HI. Known professionally as Helen Gilbert. She was a tenured professor at the University of Hawaii Department of Art and was also an exchange professor at Parsons School of Design and Pratt Institute, NY. Her work is featured in many perma
 CONROY-Ann Barbara Omara. Died peacefully on Friday, March 29, 2002, at 76. Loving wife of the late Robert Gerard Conroy. Devoted mother of Robert, Kimberley, Curtis and Kyle. Beloved grandmother of Katherine, Caroline, Sean, Garrett, Finlay, Pierce and Riley. A graduate of Barat College, L
 DOSCHER - Elizabeth. Beloved wife of the late Nathan. Devoted mother of Daniel and Dr. William (Margery). Cherished grandmother to Jesse (Julie), Wendy (Jeremy), Benjamin and Matthew. She will be greatly missed.       
 FELDMAN-Etta Bellin (nee Rosenbloom). Died May 3, 2002, at Christ Hospital Hospice in Jersey City, at age 94. Beloved mother of Howard Bellin and Barbara Bellin Brenner. Dear mother-in-law of Howard Brenner. Cherished grandmother of Marissa Tracey, Marco Bellin and Andy Bellin. Dear great-g
 FISCHER-Sheila. On May 3, 2002. Beloved mother of Susan FischerDiaz and Jill Conway. Adored grandmother of Mariel Conway and Nico Diaz. Cherished sister of Helen and Alan Goodfield. ''Aunty'' of Lisa, Suzanne, Karen and Nancy. ''Granty'' to Elena, Casey and Gaylen. Loving niece of Sol Obstf
 FREEZER-Pearl. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of Sisterhood Board Member Pearl Freezer, beloved mother of Harlene Freezer. Deepest sympathy to her & our devoted member Jacob Freezer, nephew & the family. Rabbi Arthur Schneier Michael Scharf, President FREEZER-Pearl. Park Eas
 GARIN-Torunn Atteraas. Died peacefully at home on April 26, 2002 surrounded by the ones she most loved; her three sons Kristoffer Atteraas Garin, Aleksander Atteraas Garin, Nickolas Atteraas Garin, and her husband Michael. A memorial service will be held 11AM Monday, May 6th at Scandinavia 
 LAMPUTT-Moya. On April 20th, 2002. Actress, dancer and model. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Tuesday, May 7th, 12 noon. Interment to follow at Woodlawn Cemetery. Contributions in her memory may be made to the American Cancer Society.       
 LERNER-Len, 92. Of Miami Beach and NYC. Passed away April 29, 2002. Widow of Herbert B. Lerner. She will be missed by her nieces and nephews.       
 LEVINSON-Ann R (A-J). Died peacefully on April 29 at age 73. As Executive Director of Concern for Dying, she was a pioneer in the field of patients' rights and medical ethics. As Dean of Girls at Columbia Grammar and Prep School, she helped formulate the first comprehensive curriculum on se
 LOVE-Meredith Morgan. Of Delray Beach, FL, Washington, DC, and Osterville, MA, died peacefully at home in Florida on May 2, 2002. A memorial service will be held in the Bethlehem Chapel of The Cathedral Church of Saint Peter and Saint Paul (Washington Cathedral), on Tuesday, May 14, at 2 PM
 MAYER-Florence Shulof. On April 17, 2002 in her 104th year. Mother of Joanne Josephy and Hugh Mayer. Grandmother of Jennifer, Andrea, Christiane, Patrick, Guinevere and great Grandmother of eight. Funeral services were private.       
 McCARRON-Virginia. Born October 19, 1916, died May 2, 2002. She was predeceased by her parents, Michael T. McCarron and Julia Byrnes, a sister, Helyn, and two brothers, Michael and Warren. Survivors include two nephews, Michael McCarron and Mark McCarron, and a niece, Tara Owens. Viewing ho
 MOSS-Rochelle. The Board of Directors and staff of The ALS Association Greater New York Chapter mourn the passing of Rochelle Moss, the first Executive Director of the national ALS Association and longtime supporter. With the passing of her father to ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease) thirty years 
 ROSWELL-Florence (Garfunkel). Beloved wife of the late David S. Roswell, cherished mother of Arthur and Elaine, devoted motherin-law of Betty, loving grandmother of Robert, Barbara, Marjorie, Judith and Kenneth and adoring great-grandmother of six greatgrandchildren. She was a pioneer profe
 TRINKAUS-Irene (nee Klimowsky). Of New Hyde Park on May 3, 2002, at the age of 77. Married to Dr. John Trinkaus in 1954, they had three children, Joanne Dillon, Dr. Robert Trinkaus, and John William Trinkaus, and three grandchildren, Christopher Dillon, Brianne Dillon, and Rebecca Trinkaus.
 Pauline Tish, a modern-dance teacher who studied and performed with some of the pioneers of American modern dance, died on April 1 in Manhattan. She was 89 and lived in Manhattan. A native New Yorker, Ms. Tish attended Hunter College and New York University. During the 1930's, she s
 BARNERT-Libby Tillman. 78, after a long illness. Formerly of New Rochelle. Beloved mother of David, William and Ruth. Grandmother of Andrea, Aaron and Richard. Widow of Alan. Sister to Norman. Libby's joy, enthusiasm and love permeated everything she touched. Donations in her memory may be 
 BISHARA-F. T. Born 1923 and departed this Earth to be with the Lord on the afternoon of May 4, 2002. She was a beloved wife, mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. She was preceded in death by husband Tadros Bishara and one of her daughters, Mary Riad. She is survived by ten children: fo
 DEVERY-H. Patrick. On May 3, 2002, of Ridge (former 45 year resident of Seaford). Well known in the shipping industry for over 50 years, WWII U.S. Navy veteran. Beloved husband of 52 years to Dorothea C. Devoted father of William P. and his wife Jacqueline, the late Katherine and her husban
 GARIN-Torunn Atteraas. Died peacefully at home on April 26, 2002 surrounded by the ones she most loved; her three sons Kristoffer Atteraas Garin, Aleksander Atteraas Garin, Nickolas Atteraas Garin, and her husband Michael. A memorial service will be held 11AM Monday, May 6th at Scandinavia 
 KINBAR-Ida Eppy. 96, late of West Palm Beach, FL, and Milford, PA, died on Saturday, May 4, 2002. She was the widow of Nathan Kinbar and is survived by a son, Charles, and daughter-in-law, Evelyn, and her two granddaughters, Audrey Wendy Tilton and Ronit Nicole Kinbar. Services will be May 
 KOHLREITER-Mildred (nee Wilshin). Died on May 4, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Fred. Devoted mother of Donald and Carol Blum and mother-in-law to Susan and Mort. Adored ''Grandma Mil'' to Audrey, Nancy (Ginny), Todd (Vivien), and Michele (David) and great-grandmother to Scott, Ryan, Tyler,
 ROSWELL-Florence (Garfunkel). Beloved wife of the late David S. Roswell, cherished mother of Arthur and Elaine, devoted motherin-law of Betty, loving grandmother of Robert, Barbara, Marjorie, Judith and Kenneth and adoring great-grandmother of six greatgrandchildren. She was a pioneer profe
 SAMMON-Gertrude. On May 4th, 2002. Beloved daughter of the late Henry and Ellen Sammon. Devoted sister or Rita Horkan of Westport, Ireland, and sister-in-law of Mary Sammon. She will be deeply missed by all who knew her and loved her. She was a private secretary at The Flagler Museum in Pal
 TULLER-Sally K. Of Mamaroneck, NY, died May 4, 2002, at age 62. She was born August 17, 1939, to Leo and Beatrice (nee Berger) Kugel. Sally owned Hypertype, a Medical Transcription company in Harrison. She was the beloved wife of the late Martin Tuller, who died April 10, 2002. Sally is sur
 WESTMAN-Jean B. (nee LaCroix) on May 2, 2002, of Washington Township, NJ. Beloved wife of John P. Devoted mother of Marian T. Westman, Esq. Relatives and friends are invited to attend her Funeral Mass on Tuesday at 11:30AM, in the St. Francis of Assisi Chapel at Gate of Heaven Cemetery, Haw
 Edna Mae Robinson, the Cotton Club star who was once married to the boxing champion Sugar Ray Robinson, died in her home in Manhattan on Thursday. She was 86. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said her son, Ray Robinson II. Ernestine Holly was born in 1915 
 BENAMY-Roslyn (nee Heidecorn). Age 72. Of Teaneck. Beloved wife of Daniel. Devoted mother of Philip and Lois, Leonard and Ewa, David and Shelley and Leah and David. Cherished grandmother of Gabriel, Maxx, Sarah, Shai, Ayal and Na'ama, loving sister of Charlotte Healey. Loving aunt of Phylli
 HEATER-Jeanne E. of Tuxedo, NY died Saturday May 4, 2002 at the age of 69. Born in Tuxedo Jeanne was a lifelong resident and was retired as Court Clerk in Tuxedo, NY and was a member of the Silver Dollar Club in Tuxedo. She is survived by her beloved husband of 45 years Richard E., two sons
 SAMMON-Gertrude. On May 4th, 2002. Beloved daughter of the late Henry & Ellen Sammon. Devoted sister or Rita Horkan of Westport, Ireland, and sister-in-law of Mary Sammon. She will be deeply missed by all who knew her and loved her. She was a private secretary at The Flagler Museum in Palm 
 SCHMIDT-Harvey N. The Cooper Union Community offers condolences to Dr. Mary Schmidt Campbell on the loss of her father, Judge Harvey N. Schmidt, and extends its sympathies to her husband, Dr. George Campbell Jr. and their sons Garikai, Sekou and Britt.       
 TEWEL-Clara R., 86. Of Sunrise, FL, formerly of Flushing, NY, passed away on May 4, 2002. She is survived by devoted husband Norman; loving children Arlene Tewel, Rita Ackerman & Kenneth Tewel; son-in-law Congressman Gary Ackerman and cherished grandchildren Lauren, Corey & Ari. She will be
 FLIEGELMAN-Avra L., 77. Of West Palm Beach, FL, passed away on May 6, 2002, formerly of New York City. She is survived by her loving nephew Irving (Andrea) Trager. Cherished grand-nephew Jordan Trager. She was the Executive Vice-President and Publisher of The Broadcast Information Bureau an
 FLORMAN-Harriet Stein, 56. On May 7, 2002, beloved mother of Larry, Jonathan & Jill, dear sister of Paul, Charlotte and Maxine, adored aunt of many nieces and nephews. Harriet will be with us forever. After battling for 12 years she succumbed to her illness. She had strength & determination
 MITTON-Ann Louise. On May 4, 2002. Loving mother of Michael, Jeffrey and Tara, & grandmother of Adrian and Alexa. She was devoted to her many friends and a dedicated volunteer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The family will receive friends May 13th, 123PM, at Frank E. Campbell-The Funera
 SCHNITZER-Elaine (Gellerman). Beloved wife of the late Louis. Loving mother of Murray and the late Toby Schulman. Adored aunt, cousin and friend, ''Ettie'' was the glue which held the family together. She will always be remembered by those who knew her. Services at 11:15 A.M. on Thursday at
 SCHWEEN-Audrey L., RN, MSN. Pioneer in nursing education, died at age 66 after a long illness on May 1, 2002 surrounded by family and friends. Professionally and privately her skills, generosity, energy, warmth, creativity and sense of humor have brought comfort and happiness to a multitude
 THEOPHILOS-Elizabeth Terzis, 80 of Atlanta, GA, formerly of New Providence, NJ. Died on May 2nd at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in NYC. During World War II, Mrs. Theophilos, who was born in Passaic, NJ lived in Connecticut and served in the Aircraft Warning Service for the Connecticut Defe
 BONGIOVANNI-Ann. It is with deep regret that my friend and fellow traveler, Rosemary Paparo has lost her dear mother, Ann Bongiovanni. I know she was always in Rosemary's heart. With sincere sympathy I extend my heartfelt condolences to Rosemary's brother Anthony, sisters Linda, Janet, Anit
 CELLA-Suzanne Godart. Passed away peacefully on May 7, 2002 at her home in Cutchogue, NY at the age of 79. A designer, artist, linguist and singer. More importantly, Suzanne was one who loved and was loved, and one who only gave and always shared with others. A truly unique person. She will
 COREN-Helen. The members, Board of Governors and staff of Pine Hollow Country Club mourn the passing of our long time member and good friend. We extend our sympathies to her husband Adrian, and the entire family. The Board of Governors Pine Hollow Country Club       
 LEVIN-Rose. Died May 7, 2002 in her 99th year; formerly of Far Rockaway,N.Y. Widow of David, survived by her daughter Grayce Perlbinder, her son and daughterin-law Michael and Eileen Levin, her niece Helene Haynes, grandchildren Richard Perlbinder, Mallory and Roger Probert, Lisa Perlbinder
 LYONS-Beverly. Beloved mother and wife peacefully on Sunday May 5, 2002. Born in Brooklyn on April 16, 1923. Survived by loving husband Dr. Alvin V. Lyons, children Jo-Lynne and husband John Seeger, Richard Green, Daniel Lyons and partner Stanley Cushing, Deborah Lyons and partner Midge Zar
 ROONEY-Marjorie Anne nee Weinberg, 62, of Staten Island. Daughter of the late Margaret and Carl E. Weinberg. Died on May 7. Devoted mother of Erin and Keith and grandmother of Olympia. Marge grew up in Tenafly, NJ and graduated from Trinity College in Washington, DC and Hofstra Law School. 
 ROSWELL-Florence G. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University and its Fisher Landau Center for the Treatment of Learning Disabilities records with profound sorrow the passing of a dear friend and esteemed leader in the treatment of adults & children with learning disabilitie
 SCHWARTZ NARDI - Shulamit. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the passing of a lifelong Zionist and Hadassah activist. From 1931-1933, she served as national president of Junior Hadassah. In 1934, she emigrated to Israel, where she worked closely with Henrietta Sz
 SPENCER-Faith Barrett. On May 7, 2002, at Hospice of Stamford CT Hospital. A native New Yorker, she had homes in Stamford, CT, and Lenox, MA. Loving wife of the late Girard L. Spencer Jr. Beloved mother of Dr. Melissa Young. Sister of James Barrett, of Laguna Niguel, CA, and Barbara Wiener,
 WEINBERGER-Fanny, 72. Died May 7, 2002. Loving wife, mother, sister, aunt, mimis, romantic, adventurer, activist, poet and friend. Survived by husband Fred; sons Neil, Mark and Jeff; sister Rita; and brother Jack. She will forever be dancin' and singin' in the rain. Funeral service Thursday
 BONGIOVANNI-Ann. It is with deep regret that my friend and fellow traveler, Rosemary Paparo has lost her dear mother, Ann Bongiovanni. I know she was always in Rosemary's heart. With sincere sympathy I extend my heartfelt condolences to Rosemary's brother Anthony, sisters Linda, Janet, Anit
 BROTMAN-Anita (nee Haiungs). On May 8, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Buddy. Loving mother of Beth and Harlan Sugerman and David Brotman and Karen Stevens. Cherished grandmother of Alex and Jessie. Dearest sister of Helen and her husband Tom. Fond sister-in-law of Pauline and devoted aunt. 
 HUPPERT-Melita. Serenely, May 9, 2002 after a brief illness. Native of Krakow, Poland, law graduate, Jagellonian University, Holocaust survivor. She is recalled with everlasting and profound affection by her husband of 63 years, Victor, her daughter Frances, son Arthur, niece Elizabeth Kuja
 O'CONNOR-Margaret C. Of Babylon, formerly of Elmhurst in her 92nd year. Passed away on May 8, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Louis O'Connor. Loving mother of Helen, Barbara, Alice, Mary, Leonard, John, Arlene and Robert. Cherished grandmother of all her grandchildren and great grandchildren
 ROONEY-Marjorie Anne nee Weinberg, 62, of Staten Island. Daughter of the late Margaret and Carl E. Weinberg. Died on May 7. Devoted mother of Erin and Keith and grandmother of Olympia. Marge grew up in Tenafly, NJ and graduated from Trinity College in Washington, DC and Hofstra Law School. 
 BRAND-Miriam. On May 10, 2002. Beloved mother of Marilyn and Ralph, Sol and Yaffa, Ruth and Richard, Josh and Brooks. She was the devoted grandmother of Rob and Amparo, Donna, Michal, Aila, Arnon, Jessica, Erika, Sam and David. She was predeceased by her husband, Jack, almost eight years ag
 Shirley Hayes, who waged a long battle -- called quixotic by some, psychotic by others -- that eventually succeeded in banning cars from Washington Square Park in Manhattan, died on Monday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 89. She marshaled children in strollers, including h
 BAER-Lillian. Died on May 2, 2002. Her spirit continues in her grandchildren Gregory and Rebekah, her daughter Judith and sonin-law James, and in all her friends whom she so profoundly touched. A memorial service to celebrate her life will be held at the 92nd Street Y, on May 28, from 3-5 P
 BRAND-Miriam. On May 10, 2002. Beloved mother of Marilyn and Ralph, Sol and Yaffa, Ruth and Richard, Josh and Brooks. She was the devoted grandmother of Rob and Amparo, Donna, Michal, Aila, Arnon, Jessica, Erika, Sam and David. She was predeceased by her husband, Jack, almost eight years ag
 COREN-Helen S. Was laid to rest on Friday, May 10, 2002. My sincere condolences to her husband Adrian and children Bonnie, Ken and Seth and their families. ''Helen may you rest in peace.'' Joseph Kell       
 MACGREGOR-Frances Cooke. With apologies for the delay to her friends and colleagues, it is with regret that we advise that Frances Cooke Macgregor, an expert on the psychological effects of facial deformities, died on Christmas Eve (2001) at her retirement home in Carmel, California. She wa
 ROSEN-Dorothy. 88. Died May 7, in Delray Beach, FL. She leaves her loving husband of 61 years, Lincoln, her children Bob, Nan and Edward, her grandchildren Jonathan, Melissa, Claire, Lillie, Charlotte and Camille, her great grandchildren Cameron and Spencer, and a long lifetime of friends a
 SPENCER-Harriet (nee Granoff), on Tuesday, May 7, in Boca Raton, FL. She will be missed by her husband Julius, daughters Karen Brunschwig (Bruce) and Lynn Spencer, grandchildren Felisa, Anya, Max and Emma, and sister Doris Shatzkin (Granoff).       
 WALTER-Barbara Clare, M.D. Of Los Angelas, CA, who grew up and was educated in New York City, died on May 3, 2002. Born in Jamaica, West Indes, August 5, 1946, she earned an MSW at Columbia University 1971, and an M.D. at Mt. Sinai School of Medicine 1978. Completed a residency at Kaiser Fo
 WISNICKI-Lorraine Justman, 77. Of Flushing, NY, passed away on March 9, 2002. She remains adored by her husband Joseph of 55 years. Children Susan and Jeffrey, daughter-in-law Rebecca, and grandsons, Justin and Brandon, cherish her memory. She left this world less than two days after Brando
 LASKY-Estelle. On Mother's Day. Unforgettable... That is what she is and will always be to George and Joyce.       
 Prof. Florence G. Roswell, who spent more than half a century teaching and writing, particularly about ways to diagnose and overcome reading disabilities, died May 4 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 97. A former director of the reading clinic at the City Coll
 BERNSTEIN-Julia A. Of Centerport on May 11, 2002, in her 90th year. Loving mother of Henry, Betse and Theodore. Beloved sister of Laura Gambacurta, Herbert Pelton and Monroe Pelton. Cherished grandmother of five, greatgrandmother of one. Visitation 7 to 9 PM, Monday at the A.L. Jacobsen Fun
 BORSACK-Lesley Marie (nee Schultheis). Of Montegue, NJ, and Manhasset, LI, was tragically taken from us on May 8, 2002, at the young age of 44, in the prime of her life. Loving and adoring wife of Ronald Borsack. Beloved, adored and devoted mother of her two sunshines, Zachary and Valyrea. 
 FADLOUN-Aline. On Friday, April 12, after complications from heart surgery operation. Cherished sister, aunt and grand-aunt, loved by all. She emigrated from Egypt as a persecuted refugee in 1962 and became a proud American. We will always remember her for her large spirit, her generosity, 
 STRAUSSER-Claire (nee Thanhauser). Beloved wife of the late Fred. Cherished sister of Ilse. Loving aunt of Nadia. Great aunt of Jonathan, Natalie, and dear cousin of Ellen, who devoted her life to serving and giving to others, died May 11, 2002. Services Monday 1 PM at the Plaza Jewish Comm
 DENBAUM-Irma. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Irma Denbaum, beloved sister of Milton Cooper, a cherished friend who is greatly admired for his extraordinary generosity and unwavering support of Jewish communities throughout the w
 JOHNSON-Laura S. May 12, 2002. Beloved wife of the late F. Raymond Johnson, former President of Saks Fifth Avenue, NYC. Loving stepmother of Patrick Johnson. Loving aunt of Nicole and Gerard Krausz. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her and will never be forgotten. Friends
 LIVANOS-Kakia, on May 12, 2002. Born Kakia Vernicos on June 23, 1919 in Crete, Greece. Matriculated, Oxford School Certificate, London, England, 1935, with honors in art, history and botany. Married, June 1939 to George Livanos (deceased 1964), and moved to U.S.A. in 1940, becoming a citize
 LOOSLI-Demetria. Mrs. Demetria Loosli of Plainfield, New Jersey passed away peacefully in her sleep at the age of 86 on Sunday, May 12, 2002. She was the widow of the late Mr. Alden Loosli and is survived by two daughters, Louise Petz of New York City and Lisle Bradley of Boulder, CO, two s
 MATZKIN-Rose Ellis. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, announces with great sadness the death of its 15th National President, who served 1972-1976. During her tenure, Hadassah University Hospital on Mt. Scopus was reopened and Kibbutz Ketura was founded in the Arava. A l
 PINE-Florence. ''A Grand Dame''. She lived life to its fullest and is survived by her loving husband Arthur, devoted daughters Marjorie Markus and Audrey Rosen, son-in-law Seth Rosen, and four grandchildren, Jamie, Rebecca, Hilary and Stephen. Beautiful, intelligent, innovative, trusting, c
 WASSERMAN-Eve (nee Rabinowitz). Of Mount Vernon, NY, on May 11, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel. Cherished mother of Robert and Kenneth. Adoring grandmother of Eric, Lise, Michael and Sara, and great-grandmother of Emily, Brian, Danielle and Gabrielle. Dear sister of Benjamin, David 
 BORSACK-Lesley Marie (nee Schultheis) of Montague, NJ and Manhasset, LI was tragically taken from us on May 8, 2002 at the young age of 44 in the prime of her life. Loving and adored wife of Ronald Borsack. Beloved, adored and devoted mother of her two sunshine's Zachary and Valyrea. Loving
 DILORENZO - Jeannette. We mourn the death of Jeannette DiLorenzo, Chapter leader, United Federation of Teachers, Retired Teachers Program and beloved colleague and friend. Our sympathies to her family, staff and members of UFT. We honor her memory. Pat and Rose for the staff of the Brookdal
 JOHNSON-Laura S. May 12, 2002. Beloved wife of the late F. Raymond Johnson, former President of Saks Fifth Avenue, NYC. Loving stepmother of Patrick Johnson. Loving aunt of Nicole and Gerard Krausz. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her and will never be forgotten. Friends
 KINGSLEY-Ora R. The Department of Otolaryngology/Head & Neck Surgery of Columbia University notes with sorrow the loss of our friend and benefactor, Ora Kingsley. We extend condolences to her daughter and son-in-law, Dr. Ora Smith and Dr. Howard Smith and their family.       
 KIRK-Katherine. She was suddenly taken from us at the young age of 45. Beautiful, beloved and devoted mother to Laurence and Max Altschuler, and mourned by their father Lane Altschuler. Cherished by parents Herbert and Betty Kirk, sister Melanie Louis and in-laws Paul and Antonia Miner. All
 LOOSLI-Demetria. Mrs. Demetria Loosli of Plainfield, New Jersey passed away peacefully in her sleep at the age of 86 on Sunday, May 12, 2002. She was the widow of the late Mr. Alden Loosli and is survived by two daughters, Louise Petz of New York City and Lisle Bradley of Boulder, CO, two s
 MARCUS-Alice, 87. Formerly of New York City, died on Sunday, May 12. Her husband Abraham Marcus preceded her in death. She is survived by her son Robert & wife Glynda, four grandchildren and one great grandchild. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be made to the San Antonio Jewi
 O'KEEFFE-Esther Burger. Palm Beach philanthropist has died from complications following a stroke. A longtime Palm Beach resident, Mrs. O'Keeffe was born in St. Joseph, Missouri. She attended Washington University in St. Louis and the Kansas City Art Institute, where she studied portrait pai
 SPECHT-Margaret. Eighty-four, of Saddle Brook, NJ on February 18. She was a buyer for NYU and Brentano Books. Memorial service Saturday, May 18, 11AM at St. Mary's RC Church, Passaic. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Saddle Brook Library. Aloia Funeral Home, Garfield, NJ (973-340-7077).
 STRECKER-Elizabeth M., 86, of Dobbs Ferry, died Monday May 13, 2002. Mrs. Strecker was born in New York City to Margaret and Frederick Eichler where she was raised. On April 27, 1940 she married Edward Strecker at St. Nicholas of Tolentine Church in the Bronx. For almost 50 years Ed and Liz
 VAN ALSTYNE-Janet G. The Board of Trustees of Englewood Hospital and Medical Center records with sorrow the passing of Janet Graham Van Alstyne who served our Medical Center for more than half a century as a trustee, volunteer and fund-raiser. Mrs. Van Alstyne's good deeds will serve as a l
 DANIEL-Elsa Musliner. Left us five years ago. Remembered for her inquisitive mind and dedication to ethical principles and philanthropy, as well as her love and devotion for friends and family.       
 Kimberly Miles, recipient of a lung transplant in November 2000 in an unusual operation in which her sister and a friend donated parts of their lungs, died on Monday in Minneapolis. She was 33. The cause was cystic fibrosis. Ms. Miles was born with the disease, a genetic dis
 Maida Stocker Abrams, a prominent collector of Dutch art and an advocate for the disabled, died last Thursday in Boston. She was 63 and lived in Newton, Mass. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Abrams and her husband, George Abrams, a lawyer, built one of the countr
 AIBEL-Bertha G. (nee Glasser). On May 14, 2002 at the age of 98. Beloved wife of the late Irving J. Aibel. Devoted mother of Judy and Lonny Brickman & Benjamin and Nancy Aibel and the late Herbert M. Aibel. Loving grandmother of eight and great grandmother of eleven. Interment was private. 
 AMDUR-Bess Kaufman. Widow of Leon Amdur. Died May 14, 2002 at the age of 95. Fondly remembered by her nieces Edna Shapiro and Barbara Kravitz, her nephew Stephen Prigozy, grand nephews Dan J. Shapiro, Saul B. Shapiro and their families.       
 CHERNEV - Beatrice Levin. Passed away at home on May 15, 2002. She was the beloved wife of Bernard her devoted husband of 52 years who predeceased her. She is survived by daughters and sons-in-law Nancy and Jeffrey Weissman, Wendy and Dr. Stuart Breiterman, JoAnne Adlerstein and Lee Adlerst
 DeBAUN-Mary. Beloved wife of the late Clinton DeBaun, loving mother of the late Louise von Arentschildt, cherished grandmother of Anne Dawson and Charles von Arentschildt and doting great grandmother to Charles T. von Arentschildt and Charles and Henry Dawson passed away peacefully in her s
 DILORENZO-Jeannette. The Executive committee of the Teachers' Program on Holocaust and Jewish Resistance deeply mourns the passing of our colleague, Jeannette DiLorenzo, whose enthusiasm and commitment inspired us. She will be sadly missed. Vladka Meed, Director       
 MATZKIN-Rose. The World Confederation of United Zionists mourn the death of Rose Matzkin, former National President of Hadassah, and longtime leader in The Executive of The Confederation. We honor her memory. Marlene Post Kalman Sultanik Co-Presidents       
 AIBEL-Bertha G. (nee Glasser). On May 14, 2002 at the age of 98. Beloved wife of the late Irving J. Aibel. Devoted mother of Judy and Lonny Brickman & Benjamin and Nancy Aibel and the late Herbert M. Aibel. Loving grandmother of eight and great grandmother of eleven. Interment was private. 
 APOSTOLAKIS-Ann. On May 15, 2002. Beloved wife of the late John. Devoted mother of James Apostolakis and the late George Apostle. Cherished grandmother of Lisa Coleman, John and Jeffrey Apostle and great grandmother of Charles and Ann Coleman, George and Mary Jane Apostle. She will be deepl
 DiLORENZO-Jeannette B. On May 14, 2002. Wife of the late John, beloved sister of Blanche and the late Philip. Leader of the UFT/RTC, trade unionist and political activist. Services Monday, May 20th at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th street and Amsterdam Avenue. Visiting from 10 AM. Service 
 MURPHY-Mary Judith, M.D., M.P.H. On May 16, 2002. Born on July 23, 1943 in New York City, daughter of Francis X. & Margaret (nee McNally) Murphy. Graduate of College of Mt. St. Vincent, NY Medical College and Columbia University. A loving mother, wife & pediatrician, she was a member of the
 RIBED NIEULANT-Pilar, 87. Died in Seville, Spain on May 14, 2002. Her New York family joins her family in Spain in mourning her passing with deep sorrow and affection. She lived a long & creative life & devoted herself passionately to her children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. She
 WINER-Audrey Ruth. Died May 12, 2002 in Bad Aibling, Germany. Beloved wife of Edward, loving mother of Harold & Lawrance. Memorial service Sunday May 19, at 1:45 PM at Temple Beth El, 200 N. Bedford Road, Chappaqua, NY. Donations in her memory may be made to: America Israel Cultural Foundat
 Rose Ellis Matzkin, national president of Hadassah, the women's Zionist organization of America, from 1972 to 1976, died on Monday in a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 88. A native New Yorker, Mrs. Matzkin was the daughter of Louis and Jennie Cohen. She attended New Haven 
 Sharon L. Monsky, a scleroderma sufferer who founded an organization that raised millions of dollars to look for a cure for the disease, died on Saturday in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 48 and lived in Santa Barbara. The cause was systemic scleroderma, said Charles Spaulding, a vic
 EISENBERG - Florence Bloom, peacefully on Friday, May 17, 2002, beloved wife of the late Bernard C. Eisenberg, formerly of White Meadow Lake and Teaneck, NJ. Much loved by her children Edward Eisenberg, Stephen Eisenberg, Marian E. Dunn and Lisa Macchi and their spouses. Loving grandmother 
 SMITH-Carol Rae. Beloved wife of Park B. Smith, was born into eternal life on May 16, 2002 while at their home in Lakeville, CT. Carol was born September 9, 1950 in Minneapolis, MN. She is survived by her devoted husband, Park B. Smith of New York City, NY, and Lakeville, CT; her parents, R
 Laura Johnson, a flamboyant New York social figure who reveled in personal publicity but refused to have her many philanthropies made public, died May 12 at her home in Manhattan. She was believed to be in her late 80's, but although she celebrated her birth date, July 17, her birth year re
 BORSACK-Lesley Marie (nee Schultheis) of Montague, NJ and Manhasset, LI was tragically taken from us on May 8, 2002 at the young age of 44 in the prime of her life. Loving and adored wife of Ronald Borsack. Beloved, adored and devoted mother of her two sunshines Zachary and Valyrea. Loving 
 CARESWELL-Norma. On May 15, 2002. Beloved mother of Kenneth, Janet, Bryan, June, Eileen and Joyce. Beloved mother-in-law of Deborah, Russell, Robert and William. Cherished Grandma Norma of Michael, Thomas and Nicholas. We will all miss her so very much.       
 EISENBERG-Florence Bloom. Peacefully on Friday, May 17, 2002, beloved wife of the late Bernard C. Eisenberg, formerly of White Meadow Lake & Teaneck, NJ. Much loved by her children Edward Eisenberg, Stephen Eisenberg, Marian E. Dunn and Lisa Macchi and their spouses. Loving grandmother of R
 FRIENDLY-Natalie B. December 25, 1927, to May 9, 2002, of Rancho Santa Fe. Beloved wife of fifty years to Ed Friendly, loving mother of Brooke Friendly and Edwin S. (''Trip'') Friendly III, and grandmother of Kate Friendly-Jones, Rebecca Friendly and Larkin Sackett, passed away at home with
 KRAMER-Bernice (Taub). Of North Miami Beach, FL. Passed away on May 12, 2002. She has left us to join her beloved husband Mortimer and adored son Jeffrey.       
 LANDES-Peggy Happach. May 16, 2002. Devoted mother to Hayley, beloved wife of Tom. Her energy, determination and courage inspired many. Her beautiful heart will never be forgotten. Friends may call Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. Funeral Mass on Tuesday at 10
 ROSENBERG-Ruth E. Age 87, passed away May 10, in her Manhattan apartment. Ruth enjoyed a long and respected career as an executive secretary at the headquarters of one of the nation's largest textile companies. She was a native New Yorker who loved the City, and would think of living nowher
 SIGAL-Harriet F. On May 3, 2002 in Sarasota, FL. Concert and operatic mezzo-soprano. High school choral director and music teacher in New York City schools. Beloved wife of the late Alvin I. Sigal. She will be deeply missed by her children Leah and husband Mark Spitzer, Joshua & partner How
 SMITH-Carol Rae. Beloved wife of Park B. Smith, was born into eternal life on May 16, 2002 while at their home in Lakeville, CT. Carol was born September 9, 1950 in Minneapolis, MN. She is survived by her devoted husband, Park B. Smith of New York City, NY, and Lakeville, CT; her parents, R
 STEIN-Adele Miller. Always 29, died on Mother's Day, May 12, 2002 after enjoying herself at a bar mitzvah. Beloved wife of the late William A. Stein. Incredible mother of Dr. Dodie Stein and the late Mark Scheinman Stein. She never chose her friends by their weight or their age. Donations m
 WEINER-Minnie P. Of Kingston, NY, on May 16, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Theodore. Devoted mother of Phyllis Goldman and her husband, Alan. Cherished grandmother of Bruce and Linda, Michael and Karen, Terri and Robert. Proud great grandmother of Nina, Emily, Julia, Sam, Alanna, Jackson a
 COHN-Hilda H. on May 18, 2002. Loving sister of Bertha Gross, Dr. Mortimer Hochman, Marvin Hochman and the late Florence Levine, Mildred Reis and Ruth Greenwald. Also survived by her nieces and nephews. Graveside service today, Monday 2:30 pm at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, Glendale,NY. For inform
 CRANE-Sylvia E. Of Princeton, NJ, and Woods Hole, MA, died on Friday. She was the wife of John Crane who died in 1982; and since then companion to Henry Hemmendinger. She left two sons, Charles and Thomas, and four grandchildren. She was the author of ''White Silence'' and ''Czechoslovakia:
 DiLORENZO-Jeannette B. The United Federation of Teachers Jewish Heritage Committee/Jewish Labor Committee Educators Chapter, deeply mourns the passing of our friend, colleague, and founder. Jeannette was a very special person. She will always be remembered for her leadership and for her ded
 HALBRIDGE-Esther L. On May 18, 2002. Beloved mother of Donald, Ellen Berman, Barbara and Edward. Adored grandmother of Geoffrey, Michelle, Matthew, Jeremy and Melissa. Loving sister of Morris Lefkowitz and Mary Mintz. Cherished mother-in-law of David, Elaine and Sheila. She will be greatly 
 LANDES-Peggy Happach. May 16, 2002. Devoted mother to Hayley, beloved wife of Tom. Her energy, determination and courage inspired many. Her beautiful heart will never be forgotten. Friends may call Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. Funeral Mass on Tuesday at 10
 SHERMAN-Gussie. Died on Saturday, May 18, 2002. Beloved wife of Henry; loving mother of Milton and Marcia; adoring grandmother of Jonathan, Jennifer, Elizabeth and Jeremy; great-grandmother of Alex; mother-in-law of Pauline and Jay; sister-in-law of Shirley. No wife could have loved more. S
 WITKIN-RADOVIC-Dr. Mildred Hope Fisher. On May 18, 2002. Internationally known pioneer sex therapist, author and professor. Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychology in Psychiatry at the Cornell-New York Hospital Medical Center, she was the Associate Director of the Human Sexuality Trainin
 CONDON-Ann F. Peacefully, at home, on May 16, 2002. Beloved mother of Alicia, Joseph, Susan and Sarah. Devoted grandmother of Sasha, Zoe, Rebecca, Sofia, Eliana and Jake. May the memory of her love of beauty, intelligence and wit live in the hearts of her family and friends. Memorial Servic
 FLASTER-Zena, 89. Passed peacefully on May 19, 2002. Loving mother of Bonnie and David. Wife of the late Irwin Goldberg. Cherished mother-in-law of Wilma. Adoring grandmother of Jonathan and Erica. Devoted and wonderful Auntie ZZ. She was a gracious, strong and wonderful lady, much loved by
 HALSTEAD-Carol P., 60. On May 18, 2002, at home in Manhattan with daughters Heather and Hilary and husband Clark at her bedside. Beloved by her family and many friends for her unfailingly brilliant energy and love that touched the hearts of all who were privileged to know her. She was an ad
 NEUWIRTH-Linda Hirsch. Died on Sunday, May 19, 2002, losing her final battle with cancer after a series of courageous victories over 20 years. Taken from us too soon, at 51 years of age. Courageous in death as in life. Beloved and cherished wife of Michael, loving and devoted mother of Evan
 PERRY-Irene Klosk. May 19 after 96 years of unending selfless devotion to her family. Constant friend and wife of Allan for their 63 years until his death. Her indomitable spirit was a paradigm for all who knew her. Mother of Lynn, Jane, and Andrew. Grandmother of Stacy, Jennifer, Ross, Car
 SCOTT-HANSEN-Peggy, left us peacefully on May 18, 2002, at White Plains, NY. Widow of Oyvind Scott-Hansen, Ambassador of Norway, she will be remembered lovingly by her children, Andreas, Peter and Linda, her seven grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren. Services will be private.       
 SPAISMAN-Zypora. Beloved wife of the late Joseph Spaisman, and loving mother of Ben A. Spaisman and daughter-in-law Sally A. Spaisman and devoted grandmother of Erica and Elliot Spaisman. Born in Lublin, Poland, she came to this country as WW II refugee having spent time in Russia during th
 WITKIN-RADOVIC-Dr. Mildred Hope Fisher. Deep condolences honoring my lifelong and devoted friend Dr. Mildred Hope Fisher Witkin-Radovic for her loving friendship enduring for over half a century since our college Freshman years. Dr. Sylvia Herz, Hollywood, Fla WITKIN-RADOVIC-Dr. Mil
 CORWIN-Sylvia. Of White Plains NY on May 20, 2002. Survived by her husband Leonard, children Steven (Ellen), Neil (Margery), and Diana. Grandchildren Joseph, Catherine, Emily and Matthew. Brother Herbert Moelis. Funeral service Wednesday, May 22, 12 noon at the Ballard-Durand Funeral Home, 
 EINSON-Marshall. Age 71 of Westport, CT, on May 20, 2002. Beloved husband of Natalie, devoted father of Sharon Periera, Beth Concors and her husband David, of CA., Dr. Michelle Einson of NC., and four grandsons. Services will take place Thursday May 23 at 11:00 AM from Temple Israel, 14 Col
 FREUND-Charmian Kaplan, of New York, died on Tuesday after a long illness. Loving wife of 56 years to Dr. Seelig Freund, a surgeon at Beth Israel Hospital, she is survived by her husband; children, Deborah and John; and three devoted grandsons, Alexander & Nicholas Freund of Atherton, CA, a
 FRIEDMAN-Sylvia (nee Levine). Wife of Sol, mother of Eileen Weinberg and Ronnie FriedmanBarone. Grandmother of Jason, Lara and Dimitry. Mother-in-law of Fred Weinberg and Joseph Barone. Services Thursday, 10:45AM, ''Sinai Chapels,'' 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, Fresh Meadows. Shiva, Th
 GINGOLD-Esther. Died May 20, peacefully at home, a day after joyfully celebrating her 90th birthday at a party with family and friends. Devoted wife of the late George, adoring mother of Julian, Beverly Sanders, Eric Wally and Herb, mother-in-law of Dawn, Irene and the late Ronald Sanders, 
 GLUCK-Temi. On May 21, 2002. Devoted mother of Joseph; mother-in-law of Mary and grandmother of Theodore, Rio and Daria. She will be remembered and enormously missed by all for her generous spirit and loving friendship. Memorial services Thursday 5pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenu
 GOLDFARB-Ella Kaback. On May 21, 2002, in her 85th year. Cherished and devoted wife of the late Norman J. Goldfarb; beloved mother of Susan Wallach and Warren Goldfarb; beloved sister of Jennie and Julius Glenn; loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Retired schoolteacher, P.S. 152, Manh
 HALLIBURTON-Isabel M. Of New York City. Beloved sister of the late Elizabeth Halliburton and dear cousin of George Scott, John Scott and the late Cornelia Ryan. She was an accomplished casting director and assistant producer of cinema and Broadway. Some of her works include Rollover, The Fi
 HALSTEAD-Carol P. The staff of Halstead Communications/College Connections mourns the loss of our beloved friend and leader. Her warmth, intelligence, great humor, and courage will always inspire us. Our condolences and love to her family.       
 LINDNER-Charlotte K. The entire Albert Einstein College of Medicine community is deeply saddened by the passing of the former director of our D. Samuel Gottesman Library, who served our students and our faculty with the greatest dedication and professionalism for almost three decades. We ex
 PELON-Madeline, 85 of Uniondale, NY, May 20, 2002. Daughter of the late Antoinette and Raphael Angelo. Survived by her adored sister Anne Raymond. Devoted mother to Barbara. Loving grandmother to Suzanne and constant inspiration to her great grandchildren Karl, Allegra and William. May the 
 SPAISMAN-Zypora. I mourn, together with her friends and family, the tragic passing of this celebrated Yiddish actress, friend, and colleague, first at the Folksbiene Theater and, most recently, at the Yiddish Public Theater, which she created two years ago to rave reviews. Zypora, I will mi
 STEYER-Marnie Fahr. Widow of Roy. On May 21, 2002 at the age of 78. Survived by her sons Hume, Jim and Tom, her brother, Sam, and nine grandchildren. Beloved mother and grandmother, and great spirit. A memorial service will be held on Wednesday, May 29th, 1:30PM at Saint Bartholomew's Churc
 Niki de Saint Phalle, a Franco-American artist internationally known for her colorful, monumental, cartoonlike sculptures and environments, died on Tuesday in San Diego, Calif. She was 71. The cause was pulmonary failure after an illness of several months, said Harry Mathews, the wr
 ABRAMS-Gloria A. of Syosset, NY and Tampa, FL on May 15, 2002 after a long illness. She was the beloved wife of the late Stanley Abrams, the cherished mother of Andrew Abrams and daughterin-law Claudia Abrams of Irvington, NY and Karen Walczuk and son-in-law John Walczuk of Syosset, NY and 
 BAHR-Marianne (nee Wolf). Died of natural causes on Tuesday, May 21, 2002 after a long illness. Formerly of Hanover, Germany, Mrs. Bahr was a resident of New York City since 1939. She was the beloved wife of her late husband, Julius Bahr, a coffee importer. The relatives from around the wor
 GLUCK-Temi. On May 21, 2002. Devoted mother of Joseph; mother-in-law of Mary and grandmother of Theodore, Rio and Daria. She will be remembered and enormously missed by all for her generous spirit and loving friendship. Memorial services Thursday 5pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenu
 GOLDFARB-Ella Kaback. On May 21, 2002, in her 85th year. Cherished and devoted wife of the late Norman J. Goldfarb; beloved mother of Susan Wallach and Warren Goldfarb; beloved sister of Jennie and Julius Glenn; loving grandmother and great-grandmother. Retired schoolteacher, P.S. 152, Manh
 KESSLER-Ethel Gerson, 80. On Sunday, May 19th in Sarasota, Florida, after a long battle with Alzheimer's Disease. Formerly of New City, NY. Ethel was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and received a B.F.A. in Drama from Carnegie Institute of Technology. She worked as a social worker at the 
 MESSER-Sandra Ann. On May 19, 2002. Loving daughter to the late Mildred V. Banks. She leaves a husband, Paul B. V. Messer; two sons, relatives and friends. Visiting Friday, May 24, 3-7PM. Funeral Mass on Saturday May 25 at 10AM at the Cathedral Church of Saint Thomas, 147 West 144 St., NYC 
 SPEARS-Joan Bogardus, 63, of Greenwich, CT died Wednesday May 22 at home. She was the wife of William G. Spears; mother of William G. Spears, Jr, Dorothy Spears, Brian Spears, and Wendy Connors; sister of Carol Howell and grandmother of nine. Mrs. Spears was on the music staff of St. Cather
 WISE-Blanche. On May 21, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Philip Wise. Devoted mother of Ellen Questel her husband Roger and the late Stephen Wise. Cherished grandmother of Niccolo Salvadori and adopted grandmother of Aline and Lucia Questel. Funeral services Thursday 11:30 am at Frank E. Cam
 JASPER - Gertrude Rathbone, PhD. of Hampton Bays, NY and formerly of New York City died May 22, 2002 at age 94 in Westhampton, NY. Born July 7, 1907 in New York City, she was a graduate of St. Agatha's School and Wells College. She held a Doctorate degree in French and a Master's degree in 
 MEDICUS-Rose (Davy). Age 74 of White Plains, NY; May 22, 2002. Loving mother and grandmother. Predeceased by her husband Philip and son Stephen. Survived by her son Robert Medicus, daughter Joanne Squires, son-in-law Scott Squires, grandsons Douglas and Daniel and her special friend Juliet 
 NOLAN-Margaret P. The trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of Margaret P. Nolan, who was a devoted employee of the Museum for 48 years. At the time of her retirement in 1985, she was Chief Librarian of the Photograph and Slide Library, and had authored a nu
 SNIDERMAN-Eleanore. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Eleanore Sniderman, beloved mother of Abby Milstein, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation. Abby and her husband, Howard, are exemplary leaders in the UJA-Federation community wh
 SPEARS-Joan Bogardus, 63, of Greenwich, CT died Wednesday May 22 at home. She was the wife of William G. Spears; mother of William G. Spears, Jr, Dorothy Spears, Brian Spears, and Wendy Connors; sister of Carol Howell and grandmother of nine. Mrs. Spears was on the music staff of St. Cather
 WALLMAN-Natalie. May 22, 2002 at age 82. Cherished wife of Pete Wallman; devoted mother of Barbara Fass and Bill Wallman; loving grandmother of Bob Fass; beloved sister of Phoebe Horowitz and Herb Levin. She touched many lives, and will be greatly missed. Burial and graveside service on Sun
 ZUCKER-Esther Rose. (nee Billet) Died peacefully at home in Brooklyn on May 21, 2002 two days before her 89th birthday. She was an inspiring leader and loving and devoted to her people through her service as both President of Boro Park Hadassah and Vice President and fund raising chair of t
 MEDICUS - Rose. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to her bereaved family. Rabbi Shira Milgrom Ken Simon, President       
 MILLER - Hannah. Eighty - nine, Born September 11, 1912. Passed away May 19, 2002 in Mahtomedi, MN. Hannah was born to Sarah and Max Finkelstein in Manhattan's Lower East Side, the third youngest child in a family of five boys and five girls. Hannah is survived by her daughter Marylin, her 
 PRAGER-Ida Gottfried. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY; she was born in New York City on January 4, 1908. She has two daughters, Judy Schwartz, of Philadelphia, and Bambi Granovsky of New York City and Lake Mohawk, NJ. Ida's husband was Louis S. Prager. Services Sunday, May 26 at 1:00 PM at ''Boule
 ROFFE-Ruth. 82. Died at home on May 23, 2002. Loving wife of the late Hal Roffe. Devoted mother of Ken, Andrew and Barbara; cherished grandmother of Peter, Michael, Sarah, Lucas, Amanda and Matthew. Beloved mother-in-law of Valerie and Anna. She will be forever in our hearts. Funeral servic
 SILVER-Harriet. One of the Founders of Camp Vacamas Association who has dedicated her life to the care and interest of children. She will be missed. Andrew Dunberg, President       
 SNIDERMAN-Eleanore C. Age 74. Passed away at her home in Pittsburgh, PA. on Wednesday, May 22. Beloved wife of Marvin, adored mother of Abby Sniderman Milstein and Howard P. Milstein, adored grandmother of Michael Morris Milstein. Funeral in Pittsburgh at Ralph Schugar Chapel. Family will r
 SPEARS-Joan Bogardus, 63, of Greenwich, CT died Wednesday May 22 at home. She was the wife of William G. Spears; mother of William G. Spears, Jr, Dorothy Spears, Brian Spears, and Wendy Connors; sister of Carol Howell and grandmother of nine. Mrs. Spears was on the music staff of St. Cather
 GLUCK-Lillian S. (nee Saltzman). On May 23, 2002. Beloved daughter of the late Morris and Edna Saltzman. Adored mother of Jonathan Howard, Amy Phyllis Soricelli, Robert Soricelli and Jeanette Gluck. Cherished grandmother of Elizabeth Marie Soricelli. Devoted sister of Jerome and Loretta Sal
 GOOTENBERG-Lorraine S. Real Estate Broker at Willaim B. May, on May 25, 2002, at age 62. Loving mother of Jay Gootenberg and Debra Alpert and her husband Daniel. Adoring grandmother of Jack and Benjamin. Devoted daughter of Ida and the late Morris Suskind. Dear sister of Dennis Suskind and 
 HALL-Claudia Stevenson. 91. This classically trained soprano and voice coach-with a repertoire from opera to gospel-freely shared her talent and passion for music. Petite in body, powerful in stature, her generous and humanitarian spirit was evidenced in civic/social circles in and outside 
 KAVEH-Tzipporah. On May 23, 2002, in Israel. The Officers, members of the Global Board of Trustees, faculty and staff of BarIlan University in Israel, and The American Friends of Bar-Ilan, mourn with great sorrow, the passing of Tzipporah Kaveh, beloved mother of the University's distinguis
 KAVOURAS-Harriet. Of Whitestone, NY, died on May 24, 2002, at the age of 57. She was an incredibly generous woman to all who knew her. Survived by her husband Evangelos, daughter Tina Keriazes and her husband John, daughter Evi Kavouras, granddaughter Kayla Keriazes, brothers and sister, co
 KORMAN-Sydney. Died peacefully at the age of 96, on May 17, 2002. Survived by son Tom. Any donations in her memory may be sent to Pines Nursing Home, 301 N.E. 141 Street, Miami, FL 33161.       
 MULLENDORE-Margaret (Peggy). On April 20, 2002. An actress, mother and wife she later worked in advertising. She is survived by her loving family, son William James, daughters Carol Jean, Margaret Virginia and Catherine Anne Chapman, stepsons Alan and Christopher Mullendore and their famili
 SILVER-Harriet G. In her 97th year, on May 23rd. Adored wife of the late David. Beloved by her sister, Marjorie Rappaport; her sons, David (Linda) and Michael; her granddaughters, Nicole and Valerie; Bill Grant and all of her ''kid cousins,'' and her faithful friends, Grace Hoffman and Saad
 SNIDERMAN-Eleanore C. Age 74. Passed away at her home in Pittsburgh, PA. on Wednesday, May 22. Beloved wife of Marvin, adored mother of Abby Sniderman Milstein and Howard P. Milstein, adored grandmother of Michael Morris Milstein. Funeral in Pittsburgh at Ralph Schugar Chapel. Family will r
 SOUCHET-Leonor. The Souchet family commemorates the peaceful rest of the beautiful Leonor Souchet who is the beloved mother of the late Louis and Elizabeth, and is survived by her daughters Carmen Graves, Della SouchetNofi and Hilda Souchet. May God bless Leonor the loving grandmother of ni
 WITKIN-RADOVIC-Dr. Mildred Hope Fisher. On May 18, 2002. Internationally known pioneer sex therapist, author and professor. Assistant Clinical Professor of Psychology in Psychiatry at the Cornell-New York Hospital Medical Center, she was the Associate Director of the Human Sexuality Trainin
 MARKS-Ruth. Happy Birthday, Mom. Her song has ended, but the melody lingers on. Love youJoyce, Jason, Greg, Jordana       
 Zypora Spaisman, who did everything to keep Yiddish theater alive, from producing plays to selling tickets to sweeping floors to her great love, acting (including not a few Jewish-mother roles), died on May 18 in Manhattan. She was 86. The Yiddish stage was the center of Mrs. Spaism
 COMER-Irene F. Of Weston, MA, May 23, 2002, age 97 years. Beloved mother of Carola C. McNeish and her husband David of South Natick, MA. Devoted sister of Louise Turner of Newton, MA, Dorothy Waddell of Connecticut and Virginia Spencer of Florida. Dear grandmother of David McNeish Jr., Doug
 CROSBY-Susan W. Died May 23. Wife of Sumner McK. Crosby Jr. of Woodbridge, CT. Mother of Sumner McK. Crosby III of Wilmington, DE, Timothy B. Crosby of Edmonds, WA, and Sarah C. Vokey of Camden, ME. She also leaves seven grandchildren. Memorial service will be held at Battell Chapel, Yale U
 FINN-Patricia Havens. 81, died peacefully after a brief illness on May 25, 2002. Born in London, she grew up in Brooklyn, attended Packer Collegiate and graduated from the Yale Drama School. She designed costumes for the Barter Theater, the Poet's Theater and the Hasty Pudding Club, and tau
 GOOTENBERG-Lorraine S. Real Estate Broker at Willaim B. May, on May 25, 2002, at age 62. Loving mother of Jay Gootenberg and Debra Alpert and her husband Daniel. Adoring grandmother of Jack and Benjamin. Devoted daughter of Ida and the late Morris Suskind. Dear sister of Dennis Suskind and 
 LEFF-Stacey Jill. Age 31, on May 24, 2002. Beloved and adored daughter of Erna and Barry. Loving sister of Ken and Aimee, Michael and Cindy. Devoted aunt to Zachary, Jared and Jordan. She was a brave and courageous, beautiful young woman who fought the good fight right to the end of her all
 SILVER-Harriet G. In her 97th year, on May 23rd. Adored wife of the late David. Beloved by her sister, Marjorie Rappaport; her sons, David (Linda) and Michael; her granddaughters, Nicole and Valerie; Bill Grant and all of her ''kid cousins,'' and her faithful friends, Grace Hoffman and Saad
 SNIDERMAN-Eleanore C. Age 74. Passed away at her home in Pittsburgh, PA. on Wednesday, May 22. Beloved wife of Marvin, adored mother of Abby Sniderman Milstein and Howard P. Milstein, adored grandmother of Michael Morris Milstein. Funeral in Pittsburgh at Ralph Schugar Chapel. Family will r
 Antonia Pantoja, an advocate for New Yorkers of Puerto Rican origin whose educational organization Aspira won a landmark lawsuit in the 70's that brought bilingual education to New York City public schools, died on Friday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. She was 80. The cause was ca
 MOORE-Ilse. Of Forest Hills, NY, on May 27, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Justin Moore and mother of Bobbie Fishman. Cherished grandmother of Karen (Steven) Lefkowitz and Daniel Fishman. Contributions in her memory may be made to the American Heart Association. Graveside ceremony Wednesday
 SILVER-Harriet G. In her 97th year, on May 23rd. Adored wife of the late David. Beloved by her sister, Marjorie Rappaport; her sons, David (Linda) and Michael; her granddaughters, Nicole and Valerie; Bill Grant and all of her ''kid cousins,'' and her faithful friends, Grace Hoffman and Saad
 SNIDERMAN-Eleanore C. Age 74. Passed away at her home in Pittsburgh, PA. on Wednesday, May 22. Beloved wife of Marvin, adored mother of Abby Sniderman Milstein and Howard P. Milstein, adored grandmother of Michael Morris Milstein. Funeral in Pittsburgh at Ralph Schugar Chapel. Family will r
 STEINKRAUS-COHEN-Ruth, 81. Of Westport, CT, and London, England, died peacefully on May 26, 2002, after a valiant fight against cancer. Beloved daughter of the late Herman and Gladys Tibbetts Steinkraus, and loving wife of the late attorney Herbert L. Cohen, Ruth is survived by her cherishe
 WACHTEL-Elisabeth. On May 26, 2002. Beloved wife of David. Loving mother of baby Elisabeth Charlotte. Treasured daughter of Ellen and the late Ellis. Adored sister of Emily. Devoted niece of Ina Kaplan. Dearest daughter-in-law of Dr. and Mrs. Fred Wachtel. Trusted friend of those who loved 
 WHITE THOMPSON-Nancy. Former Editor-in-Chief of Harper's Bazaar, died Saturday, May 25. A Mass in her name next Saturday, June 1 at 10:30AM at the Church of St.Thomas More, 89 St Manhattan. In lieu of flowers, contributions to The Lighthouse for the Blind       
 Nancy White, the white-gloved editor of Harper's Bazaar during the 1960's, when it captured the spirit of the decade with evocative photographs of models in bikinis, boots and big watches, not to mention spacesuits, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. Miss White e
 ABADY-Josephine. The League of Professional Theatre Women mourns the loss of its dedicated member. Her directing talents and presence will be missed.       
 FRANK-Doris A. On May 28, 2002. Died peacefully at her home in Manhattan at the age of 93. Lifelong resident of New York City and Elberon, New Jersey. Predeceased by her adoring husband Richard L. Frank, Sr, M.D. and her son Richard L. Frank, Jr. She is survived by her daughter Linda Frank 
 FRIEDMAN-Isabel Julie (nee Cunningham). May 27, 2002. Beloved mother of Leigh Sprimont, loving sister of Beth Cunningham and Georgia Gibbons, devoted aunt of Damien and Darin. She will be deeply missed. Service Thursday, May 30, 2 PM at the chapel of Woodlawn Cemetery, Bronx, NY.       
 GERSTNER-Audrey S., 95. On May 26. Mother of Judith Gutmann and John Israel. Memorial service will be held on Sunday, June 2, at Larchmont Temple, 75 Larchmont Avenue, Larchmont, NY, at 1 PM. Contributions in her memory may be made to Sarah Neuman Center, 845 Palmer Ave., Mamaroneck, New Yo
 GILLMAN-Beatrice, 89. On May 28th. She leaves three daughters, Justine, Stephanie and Cathy, her late son Michael and husband Dr. Jac. Gillman, 5 grandchildren, two great grandchildren, sister Ruth and brother Abe. A former NYC special ed teacher, she brought love, laughter and life to all 
 IMBER-Rose. Of Longwood, FL, died in NYC on Sunday May 26, 2002. Wife of the late George Imber. Mother of Susan Natale and George Imber. Grandmother of Evan Natale and Peter, Jason and Gregory Imber. She was loved by all. Her unfailing love, deep devotion to her family, and good humor are i
 MERVIS-Gertrude (1915-2002); retired employee of Grossinger's Resort. Sister of Ruth Roper and the late Irwin and Florence, and sister-in-law of Jack Roper and Molly Mervis. Fondly remembered by her nieces, Laurie and Jamie Roper, and her nephews, James and Richard Mervis. Rest in peace, da
 NEWTON-Anne Rodgers Walker. On May 26, 2002, at her home in Rye, NY. She is survived by her children, Blake and Belle Newton of Garrison, NY, Anne and Roger Walther of San Francisco, CA, and Julia Newton and Michael Feibish of Los Angeles, CA; her grandchildren, Jad and Christina Dunning of
 SHORE-Miriam, age 87, on May 26th. Beloved wife, mother and sister. Friend to all who knew her. She will be missed deeply.       
 WACHTEL-Elisabeth. The members of the Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of East End Hospice and the East End Open tennis committee extend heartfelt sympathy to the family of our devoted friend and supporter Elisabeth Wachtel upon her untimely death. Our sincere condolences to her lov
 Beverly Brown, a modern-dance choreographer and longtime lead performer with the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, died on May 17 in Kansas City, Mo. She was 61. A longtime resident of Manhattan, Ms. Brown moved to Kansas City two months before her death. The cause was a stroke, her sist
 Josephine R. Abady, a theater director who staged plays on and off Broadway and was a leader in the nonprofit theater movement, died on Saturday in her home in Manhattan. She lived in Manhattan and Stockbridge, Mass. She was 52. The cause was breast cancer, said her sister, the actr
 Mildred Wirt Benson, who wrote 23 of the first 30 Nancy Drew novels -- those spine-chilling tales of the fearless teenage sleuth who motored about in a blue roadster solving crimes -- died on Tuesday in Toledo, Ohio. She was 96. Nancy Drew, seldom just Nancy, inspired readers, many 
 FRANK-Doris A. On May 28, 2002. Died peacefully at her home in Manhattan at the age of 93. Lifelong resident of New York City and Elberon, New Jersey. Predeceased by her adoring husband Richard L. Frank, Sr, M.D. and her son Richard L. Frank, Jr. She is survived by her daughter Linda Frank 
 GERSTNER-Audrey S., 95. On May 26. Mother of Judith Gutmann and John Israel. Memorial service will be held on Sunday, June 2, at Larchmont Temple, 75 Larchmont Avenue, Larchmont, NY, at 1 PM. Contributions in her memory may be made to Sarah Neuman Center, 845 Palmer Ave., Mamaroneck, New Yo
 GOOTENBERG - Lorraine. The William B. May Company deeply mourns the loss of its dear friend and esteemed colleague. Lorraine was loved and respected by all who were privileged to work with her. Her courage and determination continue to be an inspiration to us all. We extend our heartfelt sy
 IMBER-Rose. Of Longwood, FL, died in New York City on Sunday May 26, 2002. Wife of the late George Imber. Mother of Susan Natale and Gerald Imber. Grandmother of Evan Natale and Peter, Jason and Gregory Imber. She was loved by all. Her unfailing love, deep devotion to her family, & good hum
 MILLER-Margaret. On May 29, 2002. Predeceased by her husband Samuel M. Miller and her son Peter Shaw. Loving mother of her sons Stuart R. and daughter-in-law Charlene and David Shaw, Denise Schure and son-in-law Louis; her grandchildren, Joshua, Julianna, Alec, Andre, Nina, Miriam, Elias, S
 ROFFE-Ruth. The Board of Governors and Membership of Ridgeway Country Club wish to extend their deepest condolences to the family of Ruth Roffe upon her passing. Peter Arest, President       
 WACHTEL-Elisabeth (Klebanoff). We mourn this tragic and untimely loss. Elisabeth's wit and friendship will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt condolences to her husband, daughter and family. Howard and Patty Silverstein       
 Lois Gould, a best-selling novelist, essayist and memoirist known for her acutely observed portrayals of the emotional complexities of women's lives, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 70 and lived in Manhattan. She had fought cancer fo
 AXELROD-Ruth. 88, died peacfully May 30th. Daughter of the late Dr. Benjamin and Augusta Axelrod. Sister of the late Kermit Axel. Aunt of Jane Bobrick, Blair Axel and Carol Axel. Great aunt of Benjamin, Rachel and Nathaniel Bobrick; Matthew, Sara and Kermit Akiva Axel and Gemma Weiner. She 
 GOLDMAN-Judith. Beloved wife of Harold. Adored daughter of Rabbi Gilbert and the late Libby Klaperman and stepdaughter of Susan Klaperman. Cherished sister of Joel and Renee Klaperman, Frieda Klaperman, Carol and Ira Morrow and step-sisters Beth Alter and Shira and Tuvia Book. Devoted aunt 
 GOOTENBERG - Lorraine. The William B. May Company deeply mourns the loss of its dear friend and esteemed colleague. Lorraine was loved and respected by all who were privileged to work with her. Her courage and determination continue to be an inspiration to us all. We extend our heartfelt sy
 STERN-Cassity Susanne. Of Washington, D.C. passed away May 28, 2002 due to respiratory complications resulting from spinal surgery. She was 13 years old. Cassie is the beloved daughter of A. Jane Perkins and Andrew L. Stern, and loving sister of Matthew Stern. Cassie's memory will be celebr
