 BLUMBERG-Lorrie Norr. On October 29, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Leonard. Loving mother of Robert, Peter, Andrew and H. James Erdman. Also survived by two stepchildren, David and Susan Blumberg. Visitation on Saturday, 7-9 PM, at the George T. Davis Funeral Home, New Rochelle, NY. Servic
 GREENFIELD - Naomi. The Woodmere Club deeply regrets the passing of our good friend and member, Naomi Greenfield. Our heartfelt sympathies are extended to her husband Jonathan and to the other members of the family.       
 HUERTAS-Ethel. On October 29, 1997. Beloved wife of Thomas. Loving mother of Thomas, Jr., Paul, Catherine, Christopher and Joseph. Also survived by nine grandchildren. Visitation Saturday and Sunday, 2-4 and 7-9 PM, at Clark Associates Funeral Home, Katonah, NY. Funeral Mass Monday, 10:30 A
 LEVY-Carol S. On October 29, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Edgar I. Levy. Devoted mother of Liza Levy, Angela Carroll and Kristin Lizotte. Cherished grandmother of Jacklyn, Jennifer and Adam. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, November 2 at 4 PM at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave at
 PRICE-Hedwig (Hattie). Beloved mother of Regina Fiorito Sokol, passed away peacefully in her 101st year October 28, 1997. Services Sunday 12:15PM, ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 Gloria Cestero Diaz, a champion of New York's Puerto Rican community since its early days some 60 years ago, died on Oct. 24 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged. A resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan, she was 87. Starting in 1936, Mrs. Diaz set out to aid jobless P
 Helen Wright Greuter, an astronomer and author, died on Oct. 23 at the Thomas House Retirement Home in her native Washington. She was 82. The cause was heart failure, her family said. Ms. Wright, who used her family's name professionally, worked as an astronomer before she t
 FEUERMAN-Florence. Of Boro Park, Brooklyn. Passed away October 31, 1997, in Hollywood, CA. Born January 11, 1909 in Manhattan. Loving wife of Bernard. Beloved mother of Robert and Kenny. Dear sister of Frances, Belle, Charlotte, Janet, Sidney and Emmanuel. Loving grandmother of Gary and Ste
 HALL-Josephine Dawes. Widow of Frederick Bailey Hall. Died September 29, 1997. She was a resident of Norfolk, CT and San Francisco, CA. She was born in Englewood, NJ, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Franklin Dawes. She was a graduate from Milton Academy and Sarah Lawrence College. She was ac
 LEVY-Carol S. On October 29, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Edgar I. Levy. Devoted mother of Liza Levy, Angela Carroll and Kristin Lizotte. Cherished grandmother of Jacklyn, Jennifer and Adam. A memorial service will be held on Sunday, November 2 at 4 PM at Frank E. Campbell, Madison Ave at
 LEVY-Pearl (nee Hut). Age 88 at Aventura, FL on October 29, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Philip E. Levy and the late Arthur Silverman. Loving mother of Dr. Janet Goodman, of Paris, France and Kenneth Silverman of New York City. Cherished grandmother of Alissa, Leila and Cynthia. Unique an
 MONTALBANO-Rose (nee Amari). Beloved aunt, we feel blessed by having had her in our lives. Jo S. Stigliano and Family       
 PRICE-Hedwig (Hattie). Beloved mother of Regina Fiorito Sokol, passed away peacefully in her 101st year October 28, 1997. Services Sunday 12:15PM, ''The Riverside'', 76 St and Amsterdam Ave.       
 SCHARMAN-Frida. Died peacefully Saturday, October 25 at her home after a long illness. Born in 1908, she was the daughter of August Charles Scharman and Lillie Rueger Scharman of Brooklyn. Miss Scharman was a lifetime resident of New York City and was a talented squash racquets player. She 
 WEISSMAN-Julie Corcoran. The American Society of Adolescent Psychiatry expresses condolences to our colleague Dr. Sidney Weissman and Sharon, Kathryn, Allison at their loss of a wonderful woman known for her commitments to teaching and children. Contributions to American Cancer Society. Ale
 Carol Clark Tatkon, a former senior vice president for Exxon U.S.A., died on Oct. 11 at a family home in North Egremont, Mass. Mrs. Tatkon, a resident of Houston, was 59. The cause of death was cancer, said her daughter, Heather Tatkon Powers. Mrs. Tatkon joined Exxon in 196
 Eleanor Harris Howard, an author, playwright and socialite, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84. Her sister, Jean Bankier, said the cause was Parkinson's disease. Mrs. Howard, the wife of Jack R. Howard, the former chairman of Scripps Howard Broadcasting Co
 Helen Stevenson Meyner, a liberal Democrat who was elected to two terms in Congress by a heavily Republican district in New Jersey, died yesterday after a long illness at the Heartland Health Care Center, a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 69. Mrs. Meyner was born into a pro
 FEINMAN-Beverly (nee Rosenzweig) on November 1, 1997. Devoted wife of Sheldon; beloved mother of Andrew, Joshua and Debra; loving grandmother of Amanda and Melissa; adoring sister of Arnold. A beautiful, caring person who touched the lives of all who knew her. She will be sorely missed by a
 KAY-Benjamina (Micki). Our hearts go out to her loving husband, Sank, and children, Susan and Andrew. Wonderful and caring sister to Pauline and aunt to Steven, Carol, Allen and Pearl. The Schole Family       
 LEVY-Pearl (nee Hut). Age 88 at Aventura, FL on October 29, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Philip E. Levy and the late Arthur Silverman. Loving mother of Dr. Janet Goodman, of Paris, France and Kenneth Silverman of New York City. Cherished grandmother of Alissa, Leila and Cynthia. Unique an
 MATTMANN - Barbara Moore. Daughter of the late Albert V. Moore, co-founder of Moore McCormack Lines. Passed away November 1, 1997, after a prolonged illness. She is survived by her devoted husband Charles T.; beloved daughters Sandra Gros, Barbara Walkley, Wendy Read, Debbie Mattmann; and t
 POPKIN-Lorna G. On November 1, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Lionel. Loving mother of William and mother-in-law of Prema Popkin and adored grandmother of Carol Smart, Meera Popkin and Lionel A. Popkin and great grandmother of Andre William Smart. Dear sister of Carlyn Strasser. Friends may
 SCHARMAN-Frida. Died peacefully Saturday, October 25 at her home after a long illness. Born in 1908, she was the daughter of August Charles Scharman and Lillie Rueger Scharman of Brooklyn. Miss Scharman was a lifetime resident of New York City and was a talented squash racquets player. She 
 KREMER-Syde. November 22, 1907-November 3, 1992. Beloved mother, caring teacher. Her life was an example of quiet courage, inspiring faith, and gentle humility. John and Susan Weisman       
 BEHAR-Rebecca L. Of Long Beach and The Sephardic Home. Died peacefully November 2, 1997. Devoted mother of Elia, Sonya and Jamila. Cherished grandmother of Robin and Eric, Alvin and Rochelle, Allan and Joyce, Valari, Ralph, Alan, Marc, and the late Eric Behar. Loving great grandmother of Je
 COUGHLIN-Catherine, 86. Died Nov. 2, 1997. She is survived by many loving family members and friends who will miss her counsel, company and sense of adventure. Her generous spirit remains with us. She was administrative assistant to the Presidents of Sarah Lawrence College and Josiah Macy, 
 GLOBERMAN-Sophie. November 2, 1997. Devoted wife of the late Abraham ''Vevvy''; adored mother of Barry and Alyce Harris; mother-in-law of Barry; cherished grandmother of Sean, Sari, Jonathan and Chad; friend of many. A special lady who will be missed by all who knew her. Services will be at
 GORDIS-Ann. Born April 28, 1908. Died November 30, 1997 at her home in N.Y. Cherished mother of Elizabeth and Susan, wife of Philip, stepmother of Kent, sister of Lorraine Gruner. Burial private.       
 LITTLE-John W., II. The Board of Directors and the Staff of the South Hampton Nursing Home express deepest sympathy to their esteemed Board Member, Jean Remmel Little on the loss of her devoted husband, John W. Little, II. Barbara H. Lord, President Maureen O. Mahoney, Administrator       
 MATTMANN - Barbara Moore. Daughter of the late Albert V. Moore, co-founder of Moore McCormack Lines. Passed away on November 1, 1997, after a prolonged illness. She is survived by her devoted husband Charles T.; beloved daughters Sandra Gros, Barbara Walkley, Wendy Read, Debbie Mattmann; an
 OSBORN-Millicent (Green), at age 92, on November 1, 1997, peacefully at home, amongst her family, as she wished. She joins her adored husband of over fifty years, the late playwright, Paul Osborn. Born in Poland, 1905, emigrated USA as a child, and in her teens won a scholarship to the Amer
 PAPPENHEIM-Karl. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community in Israel, a former school principal in Switzerland and Israel; beloved husband of Beate; father of Rachi (and David) Grossman, Avraham (and Nechama) Pappenheim, Elisheva (and Yit
 ROSEN-Joshua Benjamin. The leadership of UJA-Federation of New York offers its sincere condolences to Rachel Freedman, cochair of our White Plains Women's Campaign, and her husband, Daniel Rosen, on the tragic and untimely passing of their infant son, Joshua Benjamin Rosen. We share their s
 ZARETSKY-Lena. May our Machteiniste Irma Ehrenreich, her siblings and family be comforted upon the loss of this grand lady. Daniele and Jules       
 FERTIG-Hilda L. Beloved wife of Felix. Loving mother of Ann Freedman and Mack Fertig. Devoted sister of Barbara Newmark. Cherished mother-in-law of Lisa Fertig and Robert Freedman. Adored grandmother of Jessica Freedman and Sara, Eric and Amy Fertig. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be
 GALLANT-Essie. On November 3, 1997, age 94. Beloved wife of the late Earl I. Gallant. Loving mother of Elaine and Stanton F. Roth and Lois and Arthur Gallant. Adoring grandmother of Debra, Stephen, Laurie and Glenn. Great grandmother of Danielle, Madison, Evan, Michael and Sarah. She will b
 HALL-Carol Benedict, of Mantoloking, NJ and Vero Beach, FL died at 75 in Boulder, CO on November 1. Rodney Dennis Hall, Jr, her husband of 39 years, died in 1982. She is survived by two daughters Louise Allen Grauer and Judith Hall Dominguez; four grandchildren, and a sister Anne B. Swain. 
 MERJANIAN-Barbara L., R.N., C.S.W. (nee Rulon). Devoted wife of Stephen. Survived by her nieces Linda Busch, Sandra Hickson, and nephew Gilbert Rulon, and five great-nephews and one great niece. Reposing at Gannon Funeral Home, 152 E. 28 St., NYC. Service at St. Vartan Armenian Cathedral, 2
 ROTH-Elinor Remer, on November 1, 1997. Survived by her husband, Charles, her son, Charles Peterson, her daughter-in-law, Maureen, and grandchildren, Maggie and Colin.       
 STRASSER-Sarah (nee Resnick). On November 4, 1997, widow of Louis Strasser; beloved mother of Theda Zuckerman; devoted grandmother of Brian (Deena), Beth and Lawrence Zuckerman and Lisa, Scott and Donald Strasser; dear mother-in-law of Joseph Zuckerman and Robert and Joan Strasser; loving s
 Toni Carabillo, a leader and historian of the modern feminist movement, died on Oct. 28 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 71. The cause was lung cancer, said Susie Gilligan of Feminist Majority, a national group that Ms. Carabillo helped found 10 years ago. Ms. Carabillo, 
 FERTIG-Hilda L. Beloved wife of Felix. Loving mother of Ann Freedman and Mack Fertig. Devoted sister of Barbara Newmark. Cherished mother-in-law of Lisa Fertig and Robert Freedman. Adored grandmother of Jessica Freedman and Sara, Eric and Amy Fertig. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be
 HERZ-Bella (nee Levi) Age 92. On November 3, 1997. Beloved mother of Larry and the late Karen. Devoted mother-in-law of Carol. Adored Oma to Jon and Eric. Her love, valor and tireless energy will be greatly missed.       
 HURWITZ-Mildred. The Hospital for Joint Diseases Orthopaedic Institutes Auxiliary sadly mourns the loss of our esteemed colleague who served loyally for eighteen years. Her warmth and leadership will be greatly missed. Virginia Samuels, President HJD Auxiliary       
 LITTLE-John W. II. The Board of Directors and the staff of Southampton Hospital express deepest sympathy to their esteemed Board member, Jean Remmel Little, on the loss of her devoted husband, John W. Little II, former member of the Hospital's Board of Directors. Elliott E. Vose, Chairman o
 MERJANIAN-Barbara L., R.N., C.S.W. (nee Rulon). Devoted wife of Stephen. Survived by her nieces Linda Busch, Sandra Hickson, and nephew Gilbert Rulon, and five great-nephews and one great niece. Reposing at Gannon Funeral Home, 152 E. 28 St., NYC. Service at St. Vartan Armenian Cathedral, 2
 PAPPENHEIM-Jacob Karl. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jacob Karl Pappenheim, an ardent supporter of the Jewish community in Israel and Switzerland, and a beloved husband, father, grandfather, and great grandfather. His sister, Erica Jesselson, is
 SHREEFTER-Edith. Mother of Diane, Jay, Steve, Azi, Robert and Wendy. Grandmother of Jon, Robin, Emily, Benjamin, Jessica, Mikaela, Liam, Hannah and Emma. Service Sunday, November 9, 11:30 AM, Gutterman's, (Parkside Building) Flatbush Ave at Ave V., Brooklyn. Her strength and wisdom will be 
 STRASSER-Sarah. New York Chapter of Hadassah extends its heartfelt sympathy to its immediate past president Theda Zuckerman and to her family on the death of her mother. May her memory forever be for a blessing. Joann Abrams Rosoff, President       
 Francine Katzenbogen, a Brooklyn-born lottery millionaire who loved cats so much she worked tirelessly for animal adoption agencies, donated generously to their support and housed 20 beloved strays in luxury at her own suburban Los Angeles mansion, died on Oct. 30 at her home in Studio City
 DEUTSCH-Sally G. On October 16, 1997, in her 98th year. Beloved wife of the late J. George Deutsch. Beloved mother of Dr. Walter S. Deutsch and mother-in-law of Jean Deutsch. Beloved mother of Martin R. Deutsch and mother-inlaw of the late Gragina G. Deutsch. Beloved grandmother of Craig M.
 FERTIG-Hilda L. Beloved wife of Felix. Loving mother of Ann Freedman and Mack Fertig. Devoted sister of Barbara Newmark. Cherished mother-in-law of Lisa Fertig and Robert Freedman. Adored grandmother of Jessica Freedman and Sara, Eric and Amy Fertig. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be
 MANDEL-Ruth G. Loving wife of Lenard. Devoted mother of Richard G. and Rosemary Mandel and Carol M. and Andrew R. Milstein. Dear sister of Leslie J. Garfield and Elaine Kite. Cherished grandmother of Amanda and Daniel Milstein and Aaron, Ethan and Maria Mandel. Service today 11:30am at The 
 WALLACE-Coreen E. (nee Coleman) November 5, 1997. Beloved wife of James, mother of Frank, Jay and Ellen Wallace and Coreen Wallace Scharfe. Devoted grandmother to eight loving grandchildren. Beloved aunt to Judson Lange. Services November 10th, 10am at St. George's Episcopal Church where sh
 BERMAN-Rose Hazel. On November 7, 1997 in her 101st year. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Berman. Dear mother of Joan and Richard Lees, Noel and Claire Berman. Adored grandmother of Rhonda, Eric and Liz, Matthew and Susan, Mitchell and Ingrid, Diana, Peter, Orin and great grandmother of Rac
 CONRAD-Lucille (aka Lola Ross). Judith Malina and the Living Theatre Company share with the family of our dear friend and lifelong colleague Lola Ross as Lucille Conrad was known in the Theatre, our sorrow at the news of her passing. Lola was part of the Living Theatre community from its ve
 WALLACE-Coreen E. (nee Coleman) November 5, 1997. Beloved wife of James, mother of Frank, Jay and Ellen Wallace and Coreen Wallace Scharfe. Devoted grandmother to eight loving grandchildren. Beloved aunt to Judson Lange. Services November 10th, 10am at St. George's Episcopal Church where sh
 Claire Falkenstein, an American sculptor known for both abstract and functional works, died on Oct. 23 at her home in Venice, Calif. She was 89 and had lived in Venice since 1963, after spending more than a decade in Europe. Claire Falkenstein was born in 1908 in Coos Bay, Ore., and
 DAVEY-Lillian Butler. November 7, 1997. Interment at Hillcrest Cemetery, Dallas. In lieu of flowers, gifts in her name may be made to the charity of the donor's choice.       
 DEMPSEY-Marie Gravel, 71. Daughter of the late M. et Mme. Charles-Edouard Gravel, of Montreal, died at Cleveland Clinic Hospital, November 2, 1997, following a sudden set back to what had seemed to have been a successful recovery from peritoneal cancer surgery a year ago. Wife of John B. De
 KRAVETZ-Bertha. Age 101, on November 6, 1997. Devoted mother of David and Muriel Kravetz and Lillian Lukin. Beloved and adored by her six grandchildren and twelve great-grandchildren.       
 LONDON-Rose Adele. Of Fair Lawn, NJ, on Friday November 7, 1997. Survived by her husband, George; her children, Leonard, Arlene, Robert and Marcy; her sister, Lynne Mantegazza and her grandchildren, Jennifer, Rebecca and Kate. Services are 12:00 PM, today, at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel,
 PREM-Sybil Gertrude Nichols. On November 6, 1997 in Bridgeville, PA., at The Country Meadows Nursing and Rehabilitation Center at age 98. A long-time resident of Larchmont, N.Y., and New York, NY, she was the wife of the late F. Herbert Prem, a senior partner in the New York City admiralty 
 WALLACE-Coreen E. (nee Coleman) November 5, 1997. Beloved wife of James, mother of Frank, Jay and Ellen Wallace and Coreen Wallace Scharfe. Devoted grandmother to eight loving grandchildren. Beloved aunt to Judson Lange. Services November 10th, 10am at St. George's Episcopal Church where sh
 Ruth Goode, who wrote about subjects as disparate as the scenic attractions of Maine, advancements in medicine and the life of the impresario Sol Hurok, died on Oct. 27 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Beginning in 1933, Ms
 ABBOTT-Susan. 74. November 7, 1997. Holocaust survivor from Vienna, Austria. She sailed into New York Harbor in 1940 and has lived in the city ever since. Artist and peace and justice activist. She will be missed for her extraordinary inspiration, creativity, hospitality and generosity. Bel
 BAUMGARTEN-Judith. Beloved wife of the late Sheldon, dear sister of Samuel Papilsky (Paulette), cherished aunt of Gary and Elissa, Nicole, Michael. Services today, 1 PM, Young Isreal of the West Side. BAUMGARTEN-Judith. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the sister of its devot
 COMMERFORD-Sr. Rose Mary (formerly Sister Mary Raymond). Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity. Social worker, administrator, teacher, and former counselor for the Sisters of Charity. On November 8, 1997. Survived by cousins. Reposing at the Convent of Mary the Queen, 35 Vark St., Yonker
 EDER-Barbara Straus. Died November 8, 1997, after a long illness. Beloved wife of Howard Eder, M.D. Loving mother of Rebecca Eder and Peter Shile of St. Louis, MO, Susan Eder and Jonathan Flescher of Raleigh, NC, and Michael and Gundi Eder of Acton, MA. Dear grandmother of Sam, Max, Betsy, 
 HARSHAW-Margaret, 88, November 7, 1997, of Lake Forest, IL. Wife of the late Oskar L. Eichna (1992). She is survived by one son, a daughter-in-law, two grandsons, one great-granddaughter and a son-in-law. Visitation Tuesday, 11 AM to 1 PM, followed by memorial service at Wenban Funeral Home
 LAIKEN-Sally. Wife of the late Samuel. Mother of Stuart, Robert, Nancy and Deborah. Grandmother of Scott, Lisabeth, Jennifer, Gregory and Jena. Life member of Hadassah and past President of its Corona Chapter. Passed away peacefully on November 9. Supported by the love of her family and fri
 MITOFSKY-Elsie. On November 8, 1997, in Buffalo, NY. Beloved wife of the late Howard; mother of Warren (Mia) and Lenore Levy (late Morton). Noted for her extensive volunteer work in Monticello, NY, she is also survived by a brother, Arthur Sonderling, five grandchildren and seven greatgrand
 PREM-Sybil Gertrude Nichols. On November 6, 1997 in Bridgeville, PA., at The Country Meadows Nursing and Rehabilitation Center at age 98. A long-time resident of Larchmont, N.Y., and New York, NY, she was the wife of the late F. Herbert Prem, a senior partner in the New York City admiralty 
 ZUCKER-Rita. On November 8, 1997. Beloved wife of Stanley. Loving mother of Judy and Stephen Gardner. Devoted sister of Jerome and Selma Gold and adored by grandson Drew. Her memory will be cherished by her family and friends. Services Tuesday, November 11, at 12:15 PM, Riverside Memorial C
 Louise Campbell, a screen and stage actress, died on Wednesday in Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, Conn. She was 86. Ms. Campbell appeared with Ray Milland and Fred MacMurray in ''Men With Wings,'' a 1938 film about the early days of aviation. She also acted in ''The Buccaneer'' (1938) 
 Margaret Harshaw, an American soprano and mezzo-soprano who was best known as a Wagnerian singer but whose performances in Mozart and Verdi operas were also highly regarded, died on Friday at Condell Memorial Hospital in Libertyville, Ill. She was 88 and lived in Lake Forest, Ill. M
 Miriam Phillips, an actress on Broadway and in regional theaters for more than four decades, died on Oct. 24 at the Actors' Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 98. Ms. Phillips, a native of Philadelphia, began her career at the Hedgerow Theater in Rose Valley, Pa., in 1924. There she pe
 ABBOTT-Susan, 74. November 7, 1997. Holocaust survivor from Vienna, Austria. She sailed into New York Harbor in 1940 and has lived in the city ever since. Artist and peace and justice activist. She will be missed for her extraordinary inspiration, creativity, hospitality and generosity. Bel
 AFFATATO-Tessie (nee Pacelli). On Nov. 9, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Frank J. Devoted mother of Rosemarie Wenick. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer Wenick. Also survived by her sister Vivian Basile. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Avenue (at 20th Street), NYC, o
 GUTSTEIN-Hilda, 90. Died peacefully Nov. 9. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Devoted mother of Leila Passoff, Emanuel Stonewood, Helen Chusid, Edye and Harold Davis, Leo and Joyce Gutstein. Loving grandmother of Dave, Jan, Michael, Candee and Mark, Alan, Robert and Marie, Scott & Alayne, Sha
 HARSHAW-Margaret. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of beloved artist and teacher, Margaret Harshaw. Singing first as a mezzo-soprano and later as a soprano, she sang more Wagnerian roles than any other singer at the Metropolitan-24 in all, including 14 in the ''Ring'' alone-during a 
 ISAAC-Miriam. Children's Day Treatment Center and School (Godmother's League) mourns the loss of Miriam Isaac, a dedicated, hard-working and long standing member who has diligently served as Secretary of the Board of Directors. She will be sorely missed. Henrietta Berk, President       
 PARKS-Lillian Rogers. On Thursday, November 6, 1997, in Washington, DC. Beloved godmother of Peggy B. Holly. Also surviving are her cousin Lillian Byrd, dear friends Louise Carrera, Cornelia Stokes and Inez Dade, and a host of other friends. On Wednesday, November 12, from 10 AM until servi
 SAYERS-Lillian. Beloved wife of Theodore, loving mother of Barbara and Mark, cherished grandmother of Lauren & Nichole Braun, surviving sister May Green, of Los Angeles. Lillian Sayers was a pioneer in the Internet apparel industry and held over ten patents. She was the Chief Designer for E
 STONE-Minnie Mallov, 94. Died November 7, 1997. Survived by daughter Elaine, of New York, son Richard (Anita), of Athens, Greece. Three grandchildren, four great-grandchildren. Active in many philanthropic causes. She will be remembered as a loving, gentle friend to all. Services Wednesday,
 WILLIAMSON-Mae (nee Kuperman), wife of the late John Williamson, Saturday, November 8, in England. She was 91-yearsold. Beloved mother of Bob, Neil, and their wives Robyn and Jenny. Devoted grandmother of Cathy, Paul, Anne, Nicholas, Benjamin, Daniel, Samuel, Joshua, Yvonne and Paul. Adored
 ZUCKER-Rita. Tifereth IsraelTown and Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member and extends heartfelt condolences to her husband Stanley Zucker and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert President, Fred Karp       
 Lillian Rogers Parks, who surprised President William Howard Taft in his bedroom in 1909 and lived to tell that and many another juicy White House tale, died on Thursday at a hospital in Washington. She was 100 and the writer of ''My Thirty Years Backstairs at the White House.'' The
 BINSTOCK-Penny Binn. On Tuesday, November 11, 1997, at St. Vincent's Hospital. Loving and devoted wife of Moreton Binn. Adored and respected mother of Jeffrey, Jonathan and Jason. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to the Gay Mens Health Crisis (GMHC), 119 West 24th
 DOBRISH-Bonnie P. On November 10, 1997. She made the world more beautiful by, and with, her presence. Her family and friends will miss her dearly. Memorial services on Thursday, November 13, at 4 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions
 ELY-Susan. The Grenville Baker Boys and Girls Club mourns the passing of one of its most vital and spirited board members. Our deepest condolences to her husband, Stephen and loving family.       
 LEDLEY-Sandee. From lung cancer on November 10. Loving wife of James. Devoted mother of Austin, Charles, Richard, Harry and Elliot, daughter, daughter-inlaw, sister, aunt and friend. The Riverside, Mount Vernon, Noon, Wednesday, November 12. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to 
 SAYERS-Lillian. Beloved wife of Theodore, loving mother of Barbara and Mark, cherished grandmother of Lauren & Nichole Braun, surviving sister May Green, of Los Angeles. Lillian Sayers was a pioneer in the Intimate apparel industry and held over ten patents. She was the Chief Designer for E
 Helen Nichols Church, a pioneering nutritionist who began her career telling Howard Johnson what to serve at his very first restaurant and ended it as the last word on the nutritional content of more than 8,000 popular foods, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Lakewood, N.J. She was 95 and
 CURRY - REILLY - Mary. d. Atty. Mary Curry-Reilly, 80, formerly of Borghland Rd., Wilton, CT, widow of Atty. Hugh Reilly, died Sunday, November 9, 1997. She was a graduate of the University of Wyoming and received her law degree from Yale Law School. Atty. Curry was a longtime member in the
 DOBRISH-Bonnie P. On November 10, 1997. She made the world more beautiful by, and with, her presence. Her family and friends will miss her dearly. Memorial services on Thursday, November 13, at 4 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street. In lieu of flowers, contributions
 GLASBERG-Nettie Riven. Of Sunrise, FL., at age 83. Wife of the late Dave. Dearest mother of Irene and beloved mother in law of Jerry Weinberger. Loving grandmother of her precious Gregory with Diane and Jeffrey with Patti. Adoring great grandmother of Jack David, and Alexander Simon. Cheris
 LAZAR-Anne I., 88. One-of-a-kind, fun-loving, vital personality; a private person, generous, with strong family ties. She leaves behind: two sisters, Edith Stern and Miriam Magnifico; brother Nat Lazar and his wife, Roberta; and Sadie Ruth Lazar, with whom she shared a wonderful home for 45
 MILLER-Suzanne S. Passed away on November 12th, 1997. She is survived by her beloved husband John B. Miller, adoring mother Alice Shapiro and devoted son Craig D. Miller. Loving grandmother of Rachel and Scott Miller. Graveside services are on Friday, November 14, 2 PM at the Stephen Wise F
 MOSTOWITZ-Elsie. The entire multi-generational membership of Congregation of Children of Jacob mourn the loss of our President Emeritus and matriarch, Elsie Bilger-Mostowitz. As a woman of natural grace, humor, compassion and wisdom, she touched all who knew and loved her. We will forever c
 SAYERS-Lillian. Beloved wife of Theodore, loving mother of Barbara and Mark, cherished grandmother of Lauren and Nicole Braun, surviving sister May Green, of Los Angeles. Lillian Sayers was a pioneer in the Intimate apparel industry and held over ten patents. She was the Chief Designer for 
 SCHULTZ-Gertrude Parkoff. On November 11th, 1997, shortly before her 90th birthday. Died at peace in Florida. Beloved wife of the late Ben Parkoff and Jack Schultz. Loved, honored and cherished by her daughters, Sondra Henry and Linda Davidson, her sons-in-law Edward Henry, M.D., and Jeff D
 ADAMS-Annie. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University is profoundly saddened by the untimely passing of our much beloved and cherished friend, Annie Adams, from Montreal, Canada. A recipient of an Honorary Doctorate from Tel Aviv University and a member of its Board of Governors, she tou
 HANK-Susan. Beloved daughter of Selma Horowitz, loving sister of Barbara Horowitz and John Meyer, cherished sister-in-law of Ralph Slone, devoted aunt of David Slone, wonderful friend to so many, and especially Mommy to her ''girls'' Rose and June Ann. Susan held leadership positions in ref
 KLAFTER-Corinne K. November 13, 1997, of Great Neck, Long Island. Beloved wife of Horace. Loving mother of Dr. Lois and Jerry Snyder, David Klafter, Esq. & Nancy Kestenbaum, Esq; Rabbi Beth Klafter and Rabbi Jonathan Hecht. Cherished grandmother of Daniel, Deborah, Jordan, Gabriel, Rebecca 
 LEIBNER-Eleanor. November 13, 1997. Beloved wife of Sol for fiftynine years. Devoted mother of Jerry and Denise Leibner and Richard and Carole Leibner. The most loving and adored grandmother of Adam and his wife Amy, Matthew, Jonathan, David, Elizabeth, Evan and Jordan. Dear sister of Allen
 CAREVELLO-Hanna Hahn. The faculty, administration, board of directors and students of the Jewish Theological Seminary record with sorrow the passing of Hanna Hahn Carevello, the sister of JTS chancellor, Rabbi Ismar Schorsch and daughter of Rabbi Emil and Fanny Schorsch. Born in Germany, sh
 FISCHMAN-Ruth. On November 13, 1997. Survived by her brother, Jacob H. Fischman, nephew Mark B. Fischman, nieces Elaine Zekind, Lois Halpern and Barbara Klibanoff and six grand-nieces and three grand-nephews and five great grand-nieces and five great grandnephews. Interment at Beth David ce
 KARTIGANER-Lilly. November 13, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Devoted mother of Esther and Joseph. Loving grandmother of Debbie and Alison. Services Sunday, 11 AM, ''The Riverside,'' 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Donations in her memory can be made to Hebrew Home for the Aged, Riv
 KING-Ann (nee Czachor). On Nov. 13, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Walter T. Loving mother of Deborah King Cechura and motherin-law of Radim. Devoted grandmother of Michael and Lukas. Dearest sister of Valerie Perlstein, John and Edward. Aunt of Janice Conroy. Cherished friend of Margaret O
 POSNER-Rose Rosen. November 13, 1997, of Muttontown, Long Island. Beloved wife of the late Max J. Devoted mother of Libby and Joseph Shapiro, Estelle and Arnold Riback, Sydelle (Marian) and Allan Sydney. Also survived by nine loving grandchildren, and fifteen adoring great-grandchildren. Se
 RIFKIN-Liliann Lihn. On November 13, 1997. Devoted mother of Matthew and daughter-in-law Tomoko, dear sister of Katie and Tom Riggione. Services Sunday 4:30PM, ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory can be made to the American Foundation 
 Annie Dodge Wauneka, who broke custom and became the Navajo Nation's first female legislator and a health crusader, died on Monday at Flagstaff Medical Center in Arizona. She was 87 and lived in Klagetoh, in northeast Arizona. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said Ted Rushton, a s
 Catharine Carver, who won trans-Atlantic esteem as the editor of a galaxy of mid-20th century authors, including Hannah Arendt, John Berryman, Saul Bellow and Flannery O'Connor, died on Tuesday at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London. Ms. Carver, an American who lived in London, w
 BRODY-Lillian Finkle. Graduate Beth Israel School of Nursing. Accomplished bridge player. Daughter of Annie Becker and Nathan Finkle. Loving mother and grandmother. We will miss her goodness, her humor, her sharp wit and her unflagging optimism. Joan and Sam Hellerman Loving daughter and so
 FRIED-Paul. Yeshiva University and its Sy Syms School of Business are saddened by the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved husband of Regina and father of Pamela Rechtschaffen, National Board member of the Y.U. Women's Organization and a Y.U. Guardian with her husb
 HARTMAN-Frances. Died October 8. Mourned deeply. Her loving friends       
 LEWIS-Carol (nee Smiley). On November 14, 1997. Beloved wife and lifetime partner of Ira. Devoted and cherished mother of Deborah and Lawrence Berliner, and adored grandmother of her delicious Rachel Hope. Dear sister of Phyllis Kushner and the late Lorraine Nachbar. Loving aunt and great-a
 RIFKIN-Liliann Lihn. On November 13, 1997. Devoted mother of Matthew and daughter-in-law Tomoko, dear sister of Katie and Tom Riggione. Services Sunday 4:30PM, ''The Riverside'', 76 St. and Amsterdam Avenue. In lieu of flowers, donations in her memory can be made to the American Foundation 
 WAXMAN-Vivian K. November 13, 1997, of Coconut Creek, Florida (formerly of Great Neck, New York). Beloved wife of Herbert for fifty eight years, devoted mother of daughter Jill Polymeropoulos and son Jonathon (Jon), loving grandmother of Marc, cherished sister-in-law of Juliette Sack and Ce
 McFADDEN - BRUEGGER - Dorothy Loa. 95, author, lecturer, and photographer, died November 5. She was a member of the La Jolla, California Presbyterian Church where a memorial service will be held on Saturday, December 6.       
 MELTZER-Roslyn B. Beloved wife of the late Paul P. Big sister to Myriam Langfelder and Irma Fixler. Always supportive and caring mother of Barbara and Neil. Mother-in-law of Morty Rochman. She was Nana to her loving grandchildren Diane, David, Larry, Joannah and Annie. To her greatgrandchil
 Penny Binn Binstock, a clinical psychologist, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York from injuries she suffered in a fall. She was 58 and lived in Manhattan. She never regained consciousness after falling on Nov. 8, said her son Jason Binn of South 
 ARTSIS-Mildred Storch. Of Great Neck, N.Y. and Boynton Beach, FL. Died November 17, 1997. Loving and devoted wife of the late Jerome M. Artsis; beloved mother of Leslie Artsis Adams of West Palm Beach, FL., and Steven M. Artsis of New York City. Adored grandmother of Michael Artsis. Caring 
 BAXTER-Virginia R. Died November 15, 1997 in Dallas, Texas. Survived by her husband, Edmund F. Baxter, Jr. of Dallas, her parents, James H. and Marie M. Reedy of Scarsdale, her sisters, Barbara Fraser of Manhattan and Margaret Hayes of Novato, CA., and her brother, James H. Reedy, Jr. of Co
 BRUSH-Brenda M., PhD. Age 64. Died November 17 at home in Bethesda, MD. Born 27th November, 1932. Wife of William E. Spencer, sister of Craig B. Brush. Graduate of Miss Hewitt's Classes and the University of Michigan. After teaching philosophy at Ohio State University, she worked in the Bur
 FLINT-Selma. On November 15, 1997, age 96 and yet still young. Beloved wife of Sam for over half a century. Dearly loved and deeply loving mother of Carol and Philip. Selma gave so much to so many, and yet in the end her greatest gift was to teach us about the true meaning of a life well li
 LYONS-Virginia M. Of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, formerly of Shelter Island, New York, on November 16, 1997, after a loving gracious life and a brief illness. Beloved by her nieces and nephews, cousins and many friends. Viewing at The Shelter Island Funeral Home on Wednesday, November 19. Mass of 
 MELTZER-Roslyn B. Beloved wife of the late Paul P. Big sister to Myriam Langfelder and Irma Fixler. Always supportive and caring mother of Barbara and Neil. Mother-in-law of Morty Rochman. She was Nana to her loving grandchildren Diane, David, Larry, Joannah and Annie. To her greatgrandchil
 MINDEL-Edith (nee Solomon). Beloved wife of the late Dr. Leo E. Mindel passed away on Tuesday, November 17th, 1997, surrounded by her children, son Lee and daughters Laney, Sunny and Meg. In addition she leaves behind her deicated sons-in law Gary Menken and Tony Marchese and three grandchi
 SCHLOSSBERG-Beatrice Quint. Former Director of Queen Lake Camp, Athol, Mass. Survived by her sister, Judith Q. Schreider of Newton Centre, Mass. Daughter and son-in-law Jane and Alan Winslow of San Francisco, California. Donations may be made to Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston,
 TOLBERT-Victoria A. The family announces with profound regrets the death of Mrs. Victoria Anna David-Tolbert widow of the late Dr. William R. Tolbert, Jr. former President of the Republic of Liberia, 1971-1980. The sad event occured on Saturday, November 8, 1997 at the hour of 9:52PM in Ply
 WALLINGFORD-Elsie A. Hostetter. On November 16, 1997 of Rockville Centre, Long Island, in her 88th year. Beloved wife of the late Walter F. Wallingford and Dean Jacob W. Hostetter. Dear mother of Jacob R. Hostetter and Margery H. Clayton. Loving grandmother of Robert and Marcia Hostetter, D
 ARTSIS-Mildred Storch. Of Great Neck, N.Y. and Boynton Beach, FL. Died November 17, 1997. Loving and devoted wife of the late Jerome M. Artsis; beloved mother of Leslie Artsis Adams of West Palm Beach, FL., and Steven M. Artsis of New York City. Adored grandmother of Michael Artsis. Caring 
 DeRIVAN-Elaine F. On November 17, 1997 of Selden, Long Island. Beloved by all. Elaine is survived by Robert DeRivan, Rose Gould, Peter Ciaccio, three nieces, one nephew, two great nephews, one great niece and her beloved pets, Stephanie and China. Ms. DeRivan was an assistant Vice President
 FASTENBERG-Vera, age 91. Beloved daughter of the late Dorrothy and Hyman Fastenberg. Sister of Eleanor Miller, Arnold, Irwin, Sanford and the late Joseph Forster. For 40 years a teacher at PS 48, the Bronx. Vera also had a profound influence on her siblings, nieces and nephews, all of whom 
 SEVASTOPOULO-Elisabeth. Died on Thursday, November 18 at the home of her daughter and son-in-law in Mauchline, Ayrshire, Scotland. She was born Princess Cantacuzene, Countess Speransky in 1911 in St. Petersburg, Russia. Elisabeth Sevastopoulo is survived by her son, Dimitri Sevastopoulo, he
 WOLKIND-Sylvia. A woman who loved her family above all else, loved life and would make a detour anytime, anywhere to play golf at some wonderful course she had not yet seen (and there weren't too many of those) had a sudden, tragic end. She was truly a woman of valor. Those fortunate to kno
 CLARK-Scarlett. Died at her Southampton home, November 17 at the age of 91. She is survived by her husband, Robert Clark; a sister Anita Weinstein; and a brother Walter Fried. In accordance with her wishes, there will be no funeral. Memorial donations can be made to International Fund for A
 FELTHAM-Irene. Of Dix Hills, New York, on November 19, 1997. A brilliant and dedicated teacher of English in the New York City School System, at Martin Van Buren High School, Queens Village, New York. She was the beloved wife of John. Cherished mother of Lynne (Ralph) Stewart, Donald (Andre
 KOPPEL-Paul M. On Monday, November 17, 1997, of Springfield, NJ. Formerly of Brookline, MA. Beloved husband of Eva Irene (Grunebaum). Loving father of Erika Arevuo and her husband Mikko of London, Victoria Koppel of New York City and William Koppel of Los Angeles. Adored grandfather of Eva 
 LINKOFF-Helen Harvey, 81. On November 17th, 1997, from complications from a car accident. Loving mother of James, Sarah and Frank, mother-in-law of Ted, adored grandmother of Jason, Sarah, Raimy, Daniel, Thomas, Benjamin and Henry. Beloved partner of Marion Matera. Was a notable theatrical 
 MARCUCILLI-Nina. A gracious, charming lady and a dedicated associate who served our company for over twenty years effectively and with total dedication. To her loving husband Fred, and to her two wonderful, devoted and loving sons, Mark and John, we offer our heartfelt sympathies. Nina will
 MCGUIRE-Lillian J. On November 18, 1997. Wife of the late Harold F. McGuire. Mother of Harold and Bartlett McGuire. Grandmother of Christopher, Katherine and Daniel. Sister of Mrs. Johnson D. Hill, Jr. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street, Saturday, Nove
 O'NEIL-Beatrice L. On November 17, in California. Beloved wife of the late George M. O'Neil, Jr. Adored mother of Susan, Michael, John, Jane and Ann. Grandmother to nine. Sister of Lawrence, Mary Agnes, and John. Aunt to many nieces and nephews. She shall be missed dearly. Lawrence Funeral 
 ROUSSEAU-Shirlee. On Thursday, November 13, Shirlee Rousseau died of complications arising from breast cancer. She will be missed by her many friends and family. She is survived by her brother Edward Pierson III; her niece Kay Pierson and nephew Edward Pierson, IV; two grandnephews Malcolm 
 SEVASTOPOULO-Elisabeth. Died on Thursday, November 18 at the home of her daughter and son-in-law in Mauchline, Ayrshire, Scotland. She was born Princess Cantacuzene, Countess Speransky in 1911 in St. Petersburg, Russia. Elisabeth Sevastopoulo is survived by her son, Dimitri Sevastopoulo, he
 WOLKIND-Sylvia. A woman who loved her family above all else, loved life and would make a detour anytime, anywhere to play golf at some wonderful course she had not yet seen (and there weren't too many of those) had a sudden, tragic end. She was truly a woman of valor. Those fortunate to kno
 ZARROW-Sadie. Dearly loved and loving wife of the late Joseph, mother of Walter and the late Marilyn, grandmother of Laura, Andrew, Gayle, Scott, and Susan, and great grandmother of Matthew, Anna, Blaire, and Danielle on Nov. 17th at the age of eighty-seven after a brief illness. She was a 
 AHRENS-Leslie Jay. On November 19, 1997. Revered, loved and dedicated kindegarten teacher at The Epiphany School. Loving wife of Charles. Loving daughter of Marion and the late Henry Jay. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 2nd Ave (at 20 Street) NYC, today, 2-5 and 7-9PM. Mas
 EBIN-Muriel Rosenthal. Age 88, passed away on Thursday, November 20, 1997 in San Antonio, TX. She was born on August 14, 1909 in Brooklyn, New York. She was a graduate of Hunter College in New York City and was a longtime high school art teacher. Mrs. Ebin previously resided in Brooklyn, Ne
 FELTHAM-Irene. Of Dix Hills, New York, on November 19, 1997. A brilliant and dedicated teacher of English in the New York City School System, at Martin Van Buren High School, Queens Village, New York. She was the beloved wife of John. Cherished mother of Lynne (Ralph) Stewart, Donald (Andre
 LITZ-Ann L. Of Smithtown, LI, died November 19, 1997. Survived by Eugene Litz and their son, Leverett Litz, and her mother, Garetta Lyons. Funeral 12 noon, Saturday, November 22, at St. James Episcopal Church, North Country Road, St. James, L.I. Burial later will be private. In lieu of flow
 MCGUIRE-Lillian J. On November 18, 1997. Wife of the late Harold F. McGuire. Mother of Harold and Bartlett McGuire. Grandmother of Christopher, Katherine and Daniel. Sister of Mrs. Johnson D. Hill, Jr. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street, Saturday, Nove
 OAKES-Evelena ''Deede'' Stevens. Age 71, wife of Judge James L. Oakes, of Brattleboro, VT, died October 21, 1997. Deede (as friends and family called her) was known for her good spirits and a warm smile for everyone. Born in New York City on June 14, 1926, she was the daughter of Byam K. an
 WEINSTEIN-Joan. On November 19, 1997. Beloved daughter of the late Helen and Sidney. Dear sister of the late Ann Jacobs. Loving aunt of Lisa Goldsmith, Betsy Jacobs, and Jeff Jacobs. Devoted great-aunt. Service Sunday, 10:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contribution
 WOLKIND-Sylvia. The Directors and Staff of the New York Association for New Americans, Inc. extend heartfelt condolences to our esteemed board member, Dale Kramer and her family on the tragic passing of her mother, Sylvia Wolkind. In this time of sorrow our thoughts and prayers are with you
 ZARROW-Sadie. Dearly loved and loving wife of the late Joseph, mother of Walter and the late Marilyn, grandmother of Laura, Andrew, Gayle, Scott, and Susan, and great grandmother of Matthew, Anna, Blaire, and Danielle on Nov. 17th at the age of eighty-seven after a brief illness. She was a 
 BECKER-Harriet J. Of New Rochelle, N.Y. On November 18, 1997. She brightened many peoples lives with her caring and compassion. She lived with elegance and dignity. In addition to raising a family, she was active in volunteer work, including fund raising for cancer research, transcribing bo
 LANE-Leona (nee Black). Beloved wife of Ted. Loving mother of Allison Barron and her husband, Richard. Dear sister of Norman Black. Cherished grandmother of Lindsey Barron. Beloved aunt of Leslie and Graham, Karen and Stephanie. Services at 12 noon, Sunday, at Louis Suburban Chapel, 13-01 B
 LARSEN-Florence. Age 88, formerly of Brooklyn and Stony Brook, New York on November 21, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Leslie Larsen. Devoted mother of Leslie Larsen Jr., of Manhasset, L.I. Adored grandmother of Kari Larsen of Boston, MA. Also survived by a sister, Norma O'Keefe of Manhasse
 LIBROT-Susan. On November 20, 1997. Of New City, NY. A graduate of Columbia University, she had a special interest in music therapy. Worked as a volunteer with senior citizens for many years. Devoted wife of Dr. Irwin. Loving mother of Mitch and Ken and their wives Diane and Lynn, of Allend
 MCGUIRE-Lillian J. On November 18, 1997. Wife of the late Harold F. McGuire. Mother of Harold and Bartlett McGuire. Grandmother of Christopher, Katherine and Daniel. Sister of Mrs. Johnson D. Hill, Jr. Funeral service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street, Saturday, Nove
 SILVERSTONE-Rose Orliansky of Providence, RI, Jamaica Estates, NY and Orient, L.I. died November 21 just short of her 90th birthday. Rose had been a librarian at Queens College, James Monroe High School and Forest Hills High School. Beloved wife of the late Max, beloved mother of Vida Wagne
 WEINSTEIN-Joan. On November 19, 1997. Beloved daughter of the late Helen and Sidney. Dear sister of the late Ann Jacobs. Loving aunt of Lisa Goldsmith, Betsy Jacobs, and Jeff Jacobs. Devoted great-aunt. Service Sunday, 10:45 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contribution
 Helen Harvey, a New York theatrical agent who in her 50-year career represented some of the most important playwrights, directors and designers, died on Monday at Hartford Hospital in Connecticut. She was 81 and lived in New Milford, Conn. For many years at the William Morris Agency
 BRITTON-Lydia Taylor. Beloved aunt of Alexander Taylor of Fleury-Les-Aubrais, France, and Della Britton Baeza of Englewood, NJ. She was survived also by many other nieces and nephews and cousins in the United States and Canada. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave., NYC, 
 HORVATH-Elsie. Beloved cousin and friend. A native New Yorker, she traveled, but her heart was always in NYC. Inquiries 518-734-3912       
 BARNIK-Ruth (nee Simon). Of East Norwich, NY. Beloved wife of Martin, devoted mother of Joan A. Weintraub, Sands Point, NY; Marla B. Andrews, Goshen, NY, and Barbara A. Goldman, Cupertino, CA. Also survived by her cherished grandchildren Adam, Tracey and Michael, many nieces and nephews, an
 KILSTEIN-Rita (nee Meyer). On November 20, 1997. Devoted wife of the late Dr. Richard I. Kilstein. After a long illness in Tuscaloosa, AL. Beloved mother of daughter Star (Stan) Bloom and the Rev. Dr. Bonnie Ring. Adored grandmother of Tara and Ashley Bloom. She was a longtime resident of N
 Joyce Wethered, an elegant Englishwoman described by ''The Encyclopedia of Golf'' as ''the supreme woman golfer of her age, perhaps of all time,'' died last Tuesday, the day after her 96th birthday. The Times of London agreed with that assessment. It said Wethered was ''the most sty
 Mary Brooks Griswold, who served four terms in the Connecticut legislature after the death of her husband, A. Whitney Griswold, a Yale University president, died on Nov. 15 at Fox Hill Village in Westwood, Mass. She was 91, and lived in New Haven. She was a native of Scranton, Pa., 
 DAVIES-Patricia (65). Of NYC and Nantucket, passed away Sunday, November 23. She was born in Montreal and is survived by two brothers: John A. and Gerald T. and their families. A reception for family and friends, Friday evening at her Nantucket home.       
 GELOFSKY-Eve. Beloved wife of the late Abe Gelofsky. Died on November 23, 1997 at the age of 88. She and her husband were the proprietors of Jelof's in Newark and Millburn, NJ. She is survived by her grand nieces Margot and Karen Lovett, both of California. Graveside services will be held a
 GREENE-Ruth. Died on Sunday, November 23, 1997. Of Bayside, Queens, and Pembroke Pines, FL. A courageous woman who battled cancer with dignity and humornever losing touch with the friends and family who were such an important part of her life. A remarkable wife, mother, grandmother, sister,
 MILLS-Yvonne B. A Palm Beach, FL, resident, died November 22, 1997, at the age of 94. Predeceased by her husband, Harry C. Mills, she is survived by two daughters, Isabelle Harbolick of Vienna, VA, and Marie-Louise Mills of Lucca, Italy; two sons Arthur B. Kelly of Boca Raton, FL, and Peter
 NELSON-Evelyn Baker, died on Friday, November 21, age 76. Mother of Callie Angell and Alice Angell Evangelista, grandmother of Laura and Lily, sister of Susan MacKenna, Mary Carr, and the late Peggy Stewart. Married to Clifford C. Nelson for 23 years and previously to Roger Angell for 19 ye
 SILVEY-Harold D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Harold D. Silvey, beloved husband of our dear friend Lucille Silvey, President of the Child Care Women's League, which has generously supported our pediatric services for almost 30 years. 
 TOTTENHAM-Dinah. The Directors of the Parkinson's Disease Foundation mourn the death of their former executive director, a woman of great integrity, industry, compassion and grace. Under her leadership of eighteen years, the Foundation became transformed into a major force in the quest for 
 WALTHER-Paulette Rosselet. On November 21, 1997. Devoted mother of Bruno, Ronda and Karen. Daughter of the late Nelly Flint. Grandmother of Emily, Harold and Brooke. Will be remembered for her warm smile and compassionate, giving nature. We love you always. WALTHER - Paulette Rossel
 WINSLOW-Anne. On November 23, at home in NYC. A loyal friend and mentor to so many. We will remember her deep commitment to liberal values and causes. At the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and at Unitar, she provided guidance and training to countless young diplomats and scholar
 The French singer and songwriter known simply as Barbara, who earned a huge following in the French-speaking world for her melancholic lyrics and melodies, died on Monday in the American Hospital in Paris. She was 67. Doctors gave the cause as acute pulmonary infection. A sl
 SMITH-GRAY-Elizabeth (Betty) nee Lewis. On November 22, 1997. Survived by two children, five grandchildren, one great-grandchild, two sisters and a brother. She is mourned and remembered with love by friends and family and will be missed.       
 TOTTENHAM-Dinah L. Died Nov. 14, 1997 in London, England after a long illness. She is survived by her daughters Philippa Gerard and Amanda Outerbridge, and by five grandchildren: Ashley, Nina, Wylie, Robin and Ben. Until recently, she resided in New York City where she was the Executive Dir
 TUCHMANN - Hildegard. The board and staff of the Margaret Tietz Center for Nursing Care and The New York Foundation for Nursing Homes mourn the death of one of our most dedicated Directors and senior volunteers. Her devotion to our cause over almost 30 years will never be forgotten. Our hea
 BELSON-Kathy Plaszner. On November 26, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Michael, cherished mother of Jaclyn and Jonathan. Devoted daughter of Ervin and Terry Plaszner. Adored sister of Suzanne Weinstein. Beloved niece of Michael Plassner. Loving daughter-in-law of Jerome and Maxine Belson. Se
 KUTTNER-Sharland Trotter. After an inspirational 3-year journey, at home, November 25. Loving wife of Robert Kuttner, sister of John Trotter, mother of Gabriel and Jessica, mother-in-law of Kate, and daughter-in-law of Polly. Grace was her middle name. Memorial service Wednesday, December 3
 ROSENBERG - Selma (nee Hausen). On Wed. Nov. 26, 1997 of Flushing, Queens, N.Y. Beloved wife of the late Burton Rosenberg. Devoted mother of Susan Woulfin. Loving grandmother of David and Jeffrey. Graveside service at Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Queens, N.Y. Friday, Nov. 28. 1997 at 11 AM. For inf
 WOLFSON - Marjorie. Beloved wife of the late Paul Wolfson. Devoted mother of Steven Wolfson, M.D., and Sarah Spoerri. Adored grandmother of Ellen P. Wolfson, Roger S. Wolfson, Michael Spoerri, Karl Spoerri and Sasha Spoerri. She was a psychiatric social worker at the Maimonides Hospital. Co
 BELSON-Kathy Plaszner. On November 26, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Michael, cherished mother of Jaclyn and Jonathan. Devoted daughter of Ervin and Terry Plaszner. Adored sister of Suzanne and Michael Weinstein. Beloved niece of Michael Plassner. Loving daughter-in-law of Jerome and Maxin
 MACDOUGALL-Rella. The members of the board and the shareholders of 480 Park Avenue are deeply saddened by the passing of our longtime director and officer, Rella Mac Dougall. We admiringly remember not only her dedication and judgement but most especially her sensitivity and charm. She grac
 McNAMEE-Margaret Ellen. Beloved daughter of Edmund and Lillian McNamee. Loving sister of Maureen and her husband Frank Liantonio, Michele and her husband Terrance Sullivan and Monica and the late Tom Fleming. Devoted aunt of Kiera and Bridget. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Mad
 MORRIS-Elizabeth M. November 26, 1997. Beloved wife of the late William. Devoted aunt and greataunt. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday 10 AM. Interment private. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to Rangeley Region Health Center
 PIPER-Martha. On November 26, 1997. Of Santa Cruz, CA, formerly of Providence, R.I. Survived by her children Brannan and Michael of Brooklyn, New York, and Carrie of Tennessee. Mourned by her family and friends.       
 Rella MacDougall, a prominent decorator who was the longtime chairwoman of the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club Decorator Show House, died on Wednesday in her apartment in Manhattan. She was 91. The cause was cancer, said Harry Hinson, the fabric designer, who was a longtime friend.    
 Marguerite Henry, the author of the children's book classic ''Misty of Chincoteague,'' one of some four dozen books that introduced young readers to animals in the great outdoors, died on Wednesday at her home in Rancho Santa Fe, near San Diego. She was 95. While much of her work as
 BELSON-Kathy (Plaszner). A gracious and talented lady who knew far too much pain in her eight year struggle with cancer. We are everlastingly grateful to her friends and associates for their caring devotion and love to Kathy and her daughter Jackie and son Jonathan. May Kathy finally experi
 GRIFF-Sarah W., 90. November 13, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Samuel H. Griff; devoted mother of Helen G. Weisgal and former son-in-law Sherman; cherished grandmother of Stephen and Jonathan; and great grandmother of Jacob. Also survived by her sisters Rose and Stella.       
 KAUFMANN-Martha Martel, died Thursday, November 27, at age 82, following a heroic battle against breast cancer. Beloved wife of 55 years to Harold, cherished mother of Renee, Carol, Joan, Charles and Isaac, and adored grandmother of Robert, Marion, Victoria, Sasha, Amelia, and Samuel. A wom
 MACDOUGALL-Rella. The Women's Committee of The Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club express their deepest sorrow in the passing of their dear friend and colleague. Rella, who joined the committee in 1973, was a guiding force to all of us. As Chairman of The Kips Bay Decorator Show House, her extrao
 McNAMEE-Margaret. Beloved daughter of Edmund and Lillian McNamee. Loving sister of Maureen and her husband Frank Liantonio, Michele and her husband Terrance Sullivan and Monica and the late Tom Fleming. Devoted aunt of Kiera and Bridget. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison A
 MORRIS-Elizabeth M. November 26, 1997. Beloved wife of the late William. Devoted aunt and greataunt. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Sunday 10 AM. Interment private. In lieu of flowers, contributions in her memory may be made to Rangeley Region Health Center
 SILVER-Sophia Rayman, 99. Of Miami Beach, Florida. Passed away peacefully on November 27th, at the Jewish Home for the Elderly in Fairfield, CT. She was the mother of June Rayman Lurie of Westport, CT. Mrs. Silver was born in 1898 in Mt. Vernon, NY. The fourth of seven children of Ida and C
 BARACK-Lillian (Astrachan). On November 19, 1997. Cardiac arrest. Of Newton, MA. Formerly of Sheboygan, Wisconsin. Beloved wife of Rabbi Nathan Barack. Cherished mother of Judith, Sandra Reissman, and Sylvia Fishman. She was laid to rest in Jerusalem. Her memory will shine in our hearts.   
 FRANZHEIM-Melita. Died Friday evening at 9:20 surrounded by her family and friends. She was an art student in New York and Europe and also resided at 5143 Green Tree, Houston, Texas. She was 28. Born October 28, 1969, in Houston, she was the daughter of Ambassador Kenneth Franzheim II and B
 GAVIGAN-Mabel (nee Bean). On November 28, 1997, of Rockville Centre, formerly of Merrick and Oyster Bay Cove. Wife of the late James T. Devoted mother of Gail G. Dwyer, M. Jane White, James F., J. Thomas, John S., Mary G. Smith, Julia L., Avery G. and Katherine G. Rasweiler. Mother-in-law o
 HAASE-Mary-Frances. Of Pinehurst, NC. Formerly of Pelham Manor, NY. On November 25, 1997. Wife of the late Louis G. Haase. Mother of Cameron A. Haase-Pettingell of Waltham, MA, and L. Bardes Haase of Westerly, RI. Sister of F. Cameron Ludwig of Weare, NH. Grandmother of Gilbert B. Pettingel
 KAUFMANN-Martha Martel, died Thursday, November 27, at age 82, following a heroic battle against breast cancer. Beloved wife of 55 years to Harold, cherished mother of Renee, Carol, Joan, Charles and Isaac, and adored grandmother of Robert, Marion, Victoria, Sasha, Amelia, and Samuel. A wom
 LESSER-Mollie Malvin. She has been a source of abundant love and inspiration for her 90 years; she will forever be cherished and never forgotten by son Michael, granddaughters Caren and Stacy, daughter-in-law Janice, and beloved brother Arthur Malvin.       
 MACDOUGALL-Rella. The Women's Committee of The Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club express their deepest sorrow in the passing of their dear friend and colleague. Rella, who joined the committee in 1973, was a guiding force to all of us. As Chairman of The Kips Bay Decorator Show House, her extrao
 SALADIN-Virginia Helen, (nee Ivy). 84 years old, died on the morning of Nov. 28, 1997, as she had lived with dignity and courage after many years of illness. Loving wife of the late Francis X. Saladin, mother to Barbara Ivy Graham, of Huntington, New York. Loyal friend of many, especially h
 SCHREIER-Barbara J. Age 50, of Stamford, CT, on November 29, 1997, at her residence. Wife of Stephen Schreier, mother of Deborah Leipzig. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, November 30, at 1 PM, at the Leo P. Gallagher and Son Funeral Home, 2900 Summer St., Stamford, CT. Burial will f
 TUCHMANN - Hildegard. The Forest Hills Section of NCJW mourns the death of a former President and dedicated member of the National Council of Jewish Women. Hildegard will be remembered for her innovative support of our social service programs.       
 Dr. Sigrid Phyllis Stearner, who studied the biological effects of radiation and campaigned for career opportunities for scientists with disabilities, died on Nov. 17 at the Illinois Independent Living Center at Naperville, Ill. She was 78. The cause was pneumonia, friends said.    
