 COCHRANE -- Katherine Prince Schirmer. Among the talented and committed young policy advisors who served in Jimmy Carter's White House, Kitty Schirmer (Cochrane) was a superstar. More than any other individual beneath the President, she shaped the contours of the environmental and energy po
 DINES--Florence H., 71, September 29th. Survived by her beloved husband, Robert S. Dines of Pearl River, NY, children, Keith, David, Leslie Laredo-Liebowitz, and Suzanne Dines - McCarthy; grandchildren, Benjamin, Shana, Rachel and Alexander Dines and Joshua Laredo. She was a social worker a
 GINSBERG--Adele O'Connor, 80. September 26. Beloved wife of the late Harold and sister of Quentin O'Connor and the late Violet Piwowar. Survived by stepchildren Elizabeth Ford and Judah Ginsberg, brother-in-law Frederick, niece Carol, and nephew Glenn Piwowar. Her ashes will be scattered al
 LIPKINS--Edna Mae, on September 30th, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Loving mother of Judith and her husband Stephen Ness. Cherished Granny of Stacey and her husband Ivo Spanedda. Devoted aunt of the Haubenstocks and the Lipkins. Dear friend of Donna Lewis. Funeral private.       
 SALISBURY -- Nancy, rscj. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff, Students, Parents and Alumnae of Convent of the Sacred Heart, New York City, deeply mourn the passing of an exceptional leader, gifted teacher and treasured friend. An advocate for the importance of faith and spirit in the lives of 
 SELDEN--Ruth (nee Tancer). On September 24, 2004. Ruth died in her sleep in Seattle, at age 95. Born in Brooklyn, she was a high school teacher of English in the New York City Public Schools for thirty years. Ruth was married to Dr. Paul Selden and then to Arthur Gutman, both of whom predec
 WHITMAN--Mrs. Charles S., Jr., The Board of Directors and staff of Sheltering Arms Childrens Service note with sorrow the passing of Mrs. Charles S. Whitman, Jr., past president and member of the Board for 53 years. Her commitment to the agency never wavered, and was inspirational to all. H
 FOSCATO--Marie Owen. Of Dolphin Green, Port Washington, NY, formerly of Manhasset, NY, passed away on September 30, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Donald A. Foscato, Sr. Loving mother of Donald and wife Linda, New Canaan, CT; Peter and wife Agatha, Fairfield, PA; Barbara Foscato, Holden, MA
 RENAUD -- Gertrude Yang, 78, passed away on September 29. Lover of Manhattan, she attended the Dalton School and Bennington College. She studied ballet under George Ballanchine and worked as an artist at Vogue Magazine. She was also a talented painter and photographer. She is survived by he
 RUBENSTEIN -- Lynn, 65 years old, born in Brooklyn, NY, died September 29, 2004. She had a BS in education from Georgian Court College. She received an advanced degree from Brooklyn College to teach English as a second language. Her professional teaching career spanned 38 years, 28 years at
 ATLAS--Lillian Weinberger. 90 years old, died on October 1, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Devoted mother of Steven and Barbara. Cherished grandmother of Lauren and Benjamin. Loving sister of two brothers and five sisters, all of whom predeceased her. Services Sunday, 10 am, at ''Riv
 BERMAN - ROSSI -- Toby. A devoted, generous and selfless person whose grace, curious mind, professional courage and resilent spirit will live on in her many friends, colleagues and students. Naomi and Alex Gitterman Stephen Holloway Jacqueline Mondros       
 GLASGOW--Hilda, age 90. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Glasgow, adored mother of Elizabeth, loving sister of Toby Sionsky, the late Lee Wittes, and the late Perrine Gordon. We will deeply miss her optimistic spirit. Donations to the Cathedral Village Residents Assistance Fund, 600 East Ca
 KANDEL--Julia, of Delray Beach, Fla., on September 27, 2004, age 94. Survived by her children, Sherry and Don Schare, Charles and Marlene Kandel, and grandchildren, Deborah and Jonathan Roth, Rachel and Karen Kandel.       
 KUO--Nicetas, MD, on October 1, 2004 of Queens, NY. Beloved wife of Frederick. Dear mother of Richard P. , George F. and the late Frederick Jr. Loving grandmother of seven and one great grandson. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset on Monday 3-5 and 7-9
 LIPKINS--Edna Mae, on September 30th, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Loving mother of Judith and her husband Stephen Ness. Cherished Granny of Stacey and her husband Ivo Spanedda. Devoted aunt of the Haubenstocks and the Lipkins. Dear friend of Donna Lewis. Funeral private.       
 MARAN -- Clara Leibowitz, born 1917, died peacefully on September 2, 2004, in Tel Aviv. Beloved mother of Dr. Peter Maran of Bronxville, NY, and Misha Maran of Herzelia, Israel. She is survived by eight grandchildren and four great - grandchildren. May her strength and perseverance inspire 
 OLSEN--Barbara Malamut (nee Gross), 59, of Great Neck, NY. She was gentle, caring and loving; a dear friend. She is at peace now. Though she is gone, Barbara will never be forgotten. She will always be in my heart. Amy       
 RENAUD -- Gertrude Yang, 78, passed away on September 29. Lover of Manhattan, she attended the Dalton School and Bennington College. She studied ballet under George Ballanchine and worked as an artist at Vogue Magazine. She was also a talented painter and photographer. She is survived by he
 RUBENSTEIN -- Lynn, 65 years old, born in Brooklyn, NY, died September 29, 2004. She had a BS in education from Georgian Court College. She received an advanced degree from Brooklyn College to teach English as a second language. Her professional teaching career spanned 38 years, 28 years at
 SALISBURY -- Nancy, rscj. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff, Students, Parents and Alumnae of Convent of the Sacred Heart, New York City, deeply mourn the passing of an exceptional leader, gifted teacher and treasured friend. An advocate for the importance of faith and spirit in the lives of 
 SINN -- Rebecca R. The Browning School community mourns the death of Rebecca Sinn and remembers her husband Christopher and son Joshua. Past parent and longtime head of the Book Fair, she leaves indelible memories. We are proud to dedicate this year's Book Fair in her honor. James S. Chanos
 WHITMAN--Janet Russell on September 25, 2004 at age 85 after a long battle with cancer. Widow of NY Civil Court Judge Charles S. Whitman, Jr. who died in 2002. Mother of Charles S. Whitman, III, John R. Whitman and Janet Whitman and grandmother of Kate Annis, Taylor Whitman and Elizabeth Wh
 Janet R. Whitman, former president and chairwoman of the Sheltering Arms foster care agency in New York, died on Sept. 25 at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. The cause was complications of breast cancer, said her son Charles S. Whitman III. Mrs. Whitman, who was an officer
 FEINNE-ROTH--Linda E. 40. Passed away on October 3, 2004. Born in Mount Vernon and raised in New Rochelle, Mrs. Feinne-Roth earned a degree from University of Pennsylvania Wharton School of Business and an MBA from Columbia University. She was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, formerly a Vice Pre
 GOLDSMITH--Caroline Lerner. Died October 2, at home in Manhattan, after a long battle with metastatic melanoma. She will be remembered by her loving family and all who knew her for her courage, her passion for the visual arts, her insatiable curiosity, her boundless energy, her pure honesty
 GOLOMB--Ida M. 89, on Friday, October 1. She was a nationally recognized expert in her field of periodontology, taught at the Columbia School of Oral and Dental surgery and at the NYU College of Dentistry. She also served as the Chairman, Research and Pathology F.D.D.S. Council on Dental He
 GUNTHER--Margot W. Of Gunther-Watson, Inc., ASID on October 1, 2004. Loving aunt of Rebecca L., Thomas E., Seth G. and Luke L. Richmond. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, October 4th, 6-8 pm. Funeral Mass at St. Vincent Ferrer Church, Lexingt
 JAGLOM--Nadia. On October 1, 2004, in her 104th year and 9th month. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Jaglom. Dear mother of Nellie (Ralph) Gardner and Regina (Claude) Wachter. Adored grandmother of George and Paul Wachter, Ralph, Peter, James and the late John Gardner, and great-grandmother
 RICH--Joy C. The Rich-Pure family mourns the passing of their beloved mother and grandmother. After struggling for years with Alzheimer's, Joy died peacefully in her bed at the age of 84, on October 2, 2004. Joy lived a full and meaningful life devoted to her family, friends and psychoanaly
 RODMAN -- Gertrude (nee Bellsey). Born April 14, 1901, in NYC. The youngest and last surviving of eight siblings. She leaves behind five generations numbering 228 blood relatives. Aunt Gert will forever be remembered with love and respect. Ira and Jacquie Bellsey Rita Streim Beverley and Lo
 SCHEFLER -- Mary (nee Biberstein). On October 2, 2004, in her 99th year. Devoted wife of the late Max Schefler. Beloved mother of Arno (Danner), Sylvan (Joan) and Joseph (Elizabeth). Adored grandmother of nine and great-grandmother of 19. Services Monday, 11:30 am, at ''Plaza Jewish Communi
 Janet Leigh, the demure but sexy blond movie star of the 1950's who will always be remembered for the 45-second shower scene in which she was slashed to death in Hitchcock's ''Psycho'' in 1960, died on Sunday at her home in Beverly Hills. She was 77. The cause was vasculitis, an inf
 DAVIS--Hope Hale, widow of Robert Gorham Davis, died October 2 at age 100 in Cambridge, MA, after a brief illness. Short-story writer, book reviewer, teacher, and author of the New Deal memoir ''Great Day Coming'', she was named a Radcliffe College Bunting Fellow for 1993-4. She taught writ
 FINKELBRAND--Irene. Beloved wife of the late Nathaniel. She will be missed by Iris, Steven, Jed, Keith, Jane, Marilyn Fine, Carol Frank, and grandchildren. For information ''Wien & Wien'' 800-322-0533.       
 GOLDSMITH--Caroline. Our friend and colleague for 38 years, the Ruder Finn Group will sorely miss her warmth, enthusiasm and intelligence. We will always remember her devotion to the arts, to her friends and family, and her love of new esthetic experiences as gifts to us all. The Ruder Finn
 LERNER--Sylvia. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member Sylvia Lerner and extends heartfelt sympathy to her brother Arnold Aronson and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Marc Goldberg, President       
 MORRIS -- Evelyn. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 RAYMOND--Harriet Stemmler. Age 103, born in Brooklyn, NY. She was advertising manager for Celanese Corp. of America. She received the Advertising Woman of the Year by the Advertising Federation of America in 1959. Lived in Sarasota, FL for 20 years. Services will be October 16, at 11 A.M., 
 GOLDSMITH--Caroline Lerner. The Board of Directors, Staff and Members of ArtTable mourn the loss of their creative and unbelievably strong Founding Member and Past Executive Director, Caroline Goldsmith. She was a remarkable woman and truly an inspiration to us all. Our love and sympathy go
 LEAHY--Jelka Makovicka, 63, of Sarasota, FL formerly of New York City passed away Friday, October 1, 2004. She was born in Martin, Czechoslovakia on Novemeber 20, 1940. She moved from Switzerland and England to Whitinsville, MA in 1952 with her parents and brother. Her stepfather was direct
 TESTA--Dr. Janice Hulett. Of South Orange, NJ on Monday September 27, 2004. Wife of Dr. Daniel P. Testa, mother of Elizabeth Testa Licata and her husband Nick R. Licata, Alicia Maria Santamaria and her husband Manuel de J. Santamaria, grandmother of Sofia Desdamona Licata and Mateo Daniel S
 WATKINS--Bridget Ann, 42, of Williamstown, MA, wife of Stephen W. Hannock, adoring mother of Georgia Hannock, died October 4, 2004 at the Berkshire Medical Center after a courageous struggle against a brain tumor. Interment will be at the discretion of the family at Stony Lake, MI. Memorial
 BRINT--Elizabeth M. Died October 5, 2004. Beloved wife of G. Nigel Brint. She was the Social Secretary of the Metropolitan Club for 28 years and assistant to Anthony Nuttall, General Manager. She was also the beloved daughter of the late William Dawes Miller, former President of the club. S
 KAUFMAN--Naida R. Born August 27, 1926, in Birmingham, England; died October 4, 2004, after a long battle with cancer. Her loving husband, Dr. Robert Kaufman predeceased her. She is survived by her two sons, Colin and Chris, their wives Irene and Barbara and her three grandchildren, Elizabe
 MORRIS -- Evelyn (nee Charleston). Died October 4, 2004 at home at the age of 93 after a long, valiant battle with cancer. Beloved wife of the late Perry Morris. She was born in Brooklyn on December 16, 1910. Survived by her sons, Dave and Steve, and daughter-in-law, Jill; three grandchildr
 JOYCE ACCIAIOLI RUDGE is happy to be off her feet. ''It's so good to sit down; man, it's the best,'' she says, relishing the downtime from a morning that began with 70 e-mail messages from Italy. Her legs are tucked underneath her on a wooden bench in Federal Hall National Memorial, the Gre
 Yang Huanyi, the last woman to communicate secretly with others in a rare script used exclusively by women, died Sept. 20 in her home in Hunan Province, China. She was believed to be in her late 90's. The New China News Agency reported her death, saying estimates of her age ranged f
 BRINT--Elizabeth M. Died October 5, 2004. Beloved wife of G. Nigel Brint. She was the Social Secretary of the Metropolitan Club for 28 years and assistant to Anthony Nuttall, General Manager. She was also the beloved daughter of the late William Dawes Miller, former President of the club. S
 BROWN--Elise Franco, of Coconut Creek, FL. Beloved mother of Robert Epstein; devoted mother-in-law of Judy Epstein; loving grandmother to Cory and Hannah Epstein. Member of NYC real estate industry for many years. Avid bridge player. We will all miss her. May she rest in peace. Funeral serv
 KUO--Nicetas H., M.D. It is with profound sadness that we report the passing of our esteemed colleague and dear friend, Nicetas H. Kuo, M.D., on October 1st, 2004. Dr. Kuo joined the Medical Society in May 1954. Dr. Kuo served on various committees of the Medical Society and served as Chair
 LAND--Minna. 73. Died on October 6, 2004 at her home in NYC after a brief illness. Minna's unbridled optimism, intellectual curiosity and devotion to friends and family is the legacy she leaves behind. She is survived by her husband of 51 years, Arthur, their three sons, Jeffrey, Douglas an
 Barbara Schwei, a founder and the producer of the American Indian Dance Theater, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Manhattan. She was 57. The cause was breast cancer, according to Les Schecter, a friend. Born in Milwaukee, Ms. Schwei received her degree in theater from New Yor
 Hildy Parks Cohen, the producer, writer and actress known as Hildy Parks who wrote the first 20 Tony Awards telecasts as well as 20 other television specials, including the Emmy Awards, died on Thursday at the Actors Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 78. The cause was complicatio
 BRINT--Elizabeth M. Died October 5, 2004. Beloved wife of G. Nigel Brint. She was the Social Secretary of the Metropolitan Club for 28 years and assistant to Anthony Nuttall, General Manager. She was also the beloved daughter of the late William Dawes Miller, former President of the club. S
 FLAMM--Ruth S., of Woodbridge, CT, died on October 7, 2004 at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, CT. She was the wife of Gerald H. Flamm, M.D., and mother of attorney Brett C. Flamm and Sheila F. Taylor, New Haven. Daughter of the late Morris Satalof and Reba Pearson Satalof, Ruth was born Oc
 MOROSANI -- Virginia War rington. 93 widow of Remy Edmond Morosani, died at her home in Litchfield, CT., Friday, October 1, 2004. She is survived by four children, George W. Morosani, Reto W. Morosani, Roopa Morosani, and John W. Morosani; eleven grandchildren, and eleven great-grandchildre
 SIMPSON -- Graciela Antoi nette, passed away October 4, 2004, after a valiant and courageous battle with lung cancer for nearly two years. She was 53 years old. Born in Colon, Rep. de Panama, she immigrated to Brooklyn with her mother, two sisters, and her brother to join her father. She en
 TRUGMAN--Nita (Muhlrad). Died October 7, 2004 in Worcester, MA after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Trugman. Devoted mother of Joel Trugman and Razel Solow of Charlottesville, VA and Sheila Trugman and Richard Rudnick of Worcester, MA. Loving grandmother of Noah and Dena T
 Caroline Lerner Goldsmith, a public relations executive specializing in the visual arts and a founder of influential arts organizations, died on Oct. 2 at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was metastatic melanoma, said her husband, John Frank Goldsmith. Interested
 BLITS--Evelyn. 87, of Aventura, FL and Lawrence, NY. Wife of Harold for 65 years, died peacefully in her sleep Tuesday, October 5. Private interment.       
 BRINT--Elizabeth M. Died October 5, 2004. Beloved wife of G. Nigel Brint. She was the Social Secretary of the Metropolitan Club for 28 years and assistant to Anthony Nuttall, General Manager. She was also the beloved daughter of the late William Dawes Miller, former President of the club. S
 DIXON -- Mary Aurela of Boonton Township, NJ, on Monday, October 4, 2004, at the age of 81. Daughter of the late Bryant H. Dixon, Sr. and the late Harriet Lawshe Dixon. Received her BA in English Literature from Smith College, graduating in threeand-one-half years with the class of 1944. Se
 EPSTEIN--Martha Scher. Her creative spirit will live on in her poem ''It's Good To Be Alive''. She graduated Hunter College and leaves sons & daughter Jan, Robert and Justine Blau, and grandchildren Alanna, Rebecca, Corrie, Asher, Grace and friend Michael and brother Sam.       
 FEDERING--Eileen (Katz). Our mother passed peacefully at home at age 82, on October 5, in Tappan, NY. Loved by all who knew her, especially her granddaughter. Her love, wit and wisdom are everlasting. A funeral service will be held on October 10, at Cedar Park Cemetery in Paramus, NJ, at 12
 GOLDSTEIN--Henrietta. Beloved wife of Isidore. Kind and inspiring mother of Naomi Fisch, Tamara Russo and Felicia Hirata. Cherished grandmother and greatgrandmother. She brought joy and music to all of her students. Remembrances should be sent to Hadassah. Services Sunday, 11:30 am, at Rive
 GOODFRIEND -- Marsha Storch. Our sweet Marsha left us on October 7, 2004 after a battle with kidney disease. She was the cherished daughter of Florence Pitkin Storch Greene and the late George R. Storch, dear step-daughter of Albert Greene, loving sister of Michael Storch of Jerusalem, Isra
 KUSEL -- Virginia Boswell. Age 78, cherished wife of the late Robert L. Kusel, beloved mother to Robert and Jonathan and mother-in-law to Linda and Amy, loving grandmother to Benjamin, Clarissa, Carolyn, Julia and Sheridan. Passed away on October 6, 2004. Virginia was a patron of the arts, 
 MALLER--Rose Ruth. Born October 8, 1908 in Lowell, MA. For 80 years a resident of New York City, passed away October 9, 2004, in Lexington, MA. Loving wife of Dr. Julius B. Maller, who passed away in 1959. Beloved mother of Julie and Alan Altshuler of Belmont, MA, Jeanne and David Shub of A
 MAXON--Yetta. Dearly loved wife, mother, grandmother, great - grandmother, and mother-in-law. Died on October 8, 2004, at age 89, after a long struggle with Alzheimer's disease. Born and raised and lived almost all her life in Port Chester, New York. She was the salutatorian of her graduati
 MAYERS--Virginia Curtis, of Village of Golf, FL, and formerly of Waccabuc, NY, on October 4. Died peacefully at home surrounded by her family, after a courageous battle with cancer. Virginia was raised in Brookline, PA. She graduated from Rosemont College. An actress during the 1940's and 5
 MOROSANI -- Virginia War rington. 93 widow of Remy Edmond Morosani, died at her home in Litchfield, CT., Friday, October 1, 2004. She is survived by four children, George W. Morosani, Reto W. Morosani, Roopa Morosani, and John W. Morosani; eleven grandchildren, and eleven great-grandchildre
 REID--Anne T. October 8, 2004. Beloved wife of the late John J. McCormick and John Reid. Longtime resident of New York City and Spring Lake, NJ. Benefactor of the College of Mt. St. Vincent and member of Board of Directors of Casita Maria. Survived by her niece and nephew Kathleen and James
 ROTHSTEIN--Beatrice. Beloved wife of the late Jacob Rothstein. Devoted mother of Stanley, Mervyn and Kevin. Loving mother-in-law of Iris, Ruth and Maura Rothstein. Cherished grandmother of Penny and Michael Sherman, Jennifer, Meredith, Jill and Samantha Rothstein. Great-grandmother to Matth
 TRUGMAN--Nita (Muhlrad). Died October 7, 2004 in Worcester, MA after a long illness. Beloved wife of the late Bernard Trugman. Devoted mother of Joel Trugman and Razel Solow of Charlottesville, VA and Sheila Trugman and Richard Rudnick of Worcester, MA. Loving grandmother of Noah and Dena T
 WESTON--Michaela, on October 3, 2004. We deeply regret the loss of this most vibrant woman, who was born to a Viennese stage actress, Alice von Herdan, and an anti-Hitler revolutionary, Karl Frank, on June 13, 1924, in Munich. At a young age, Michaela Maria Magdalena Agatha Frank graced the
 BIBLO--Frances D. Widow of the late Jack Biblo, co-owner of Biblo and Tannen Booksellers of 4th Avenue in Manhattan, on Friday, October 8, 2004, at her home in Brooklyn Heights after a short illness. She was 93. A retired NYC school teacher, prior to her death she was active as the propriet
 HUDIS--Dr. Ann. Of Monroe Township, NJ, passed away on October 9, 2004, after a long illness. Beloved daughter of Wolf and Sara Wax, she was born at Hadassah hospital, Tel Aviv, Israel, on May 1, 1922. She immigrated to the United States at age three and lived in Ohio and Michigan. She serv
 LESTER--Yetta G. Died in NYC, on October 9, 2004, in her 94th year. Loving wife of the late Abraham (A.J.) Lester, beloved mother of Ann Stone and the late Elaine Isenberg, mother-in-law of Leon Stone, grandmother of Julie, Hal, Susan, Tom, Stephanie, Marc, Paul and Robin. Greatgrandmother 
 REID--Anne T. October 8, 2004. Beloved wife of the late John J. McCormick and John Reid. Longtime resident of New York City and Spring Lake, NJ. Benefactor of the College of Mt. St. Vincent and member of Board of Directors of Casita Maria. Survived by her niece and nephew Kathleen and James
 SCAVONE--Kathleen C. Age 70, died peacefully on Saturday, October 9, 2004, at the Valley Hospital in Ridgewood. Kathleen was born in Brooklyn, NY, on June 6, 1934. She was a resident of Waldwick for the past 43 years. Kathleen was a member of the New York Stock Exchange, and a parishioner o
 COHEN--Shirley (nee Schiller). Known to many as ''Miss Dixie''. Beloved mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Great friend to our patriarch, ''Willie''. Her wisdom, warmth, humor, generosity and zest for life will be missed by us and by all who knew her. Grandmother of Patrick's wife, 
 DRUCKER -- Pauline Sher man. Devoted wife of Meyer (d). Beloved sister-in-law, mother, grandmother, mother-in-law. Dedicated to her family. A woman of ethical values and strong convictions. Avid union supporter and teacher of the visually disabled. She touched the lives of many. For those w
 GEE--Helen Wimmer, 85. Died peacefully on Sunday October 10, 2004 at Cabrini Hospice in New York City. Friends mourn her loss.       
 KATES--Jean A. Died peacefully in Boston on October 9, age 87. Adored mother of Barbara and mother-in-law of Marc, fantastic grandmother of Alex and Nat. We will miss her generosity of spirit and her compassion. Donations to Nursing Scholarship, Hebrew Rehabilitation Home for the Aged, 1200
 McCORMICK -- Shirley. On October 6, 2004 at age 75. Beloved daughter of the late Robert E. and Helen McCormick. Loving sister of Sanford E. McCormick and dear aunt of Peter McCormick, Carolyn McCormick and Leigh McCormick. Interment private. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madis
 NEUMANN--Suzanne. October 11th, 2004. Our incomparable, irrepressible Suzie drew her last breath today bidding farewell to her beloved Norbert, Michelle and Ron Finkelstein, Peter and Sabine Neumann, brother Frederic Buch and loving family and friends. Her unique spirit will live forever as
 WILLIAMS -- Josephine A. ''Jo'' (nee Tymchak) 87 years, passed peacefully October 9, 2004 at her residence. She was the proud owner and cofounder of Williams Funeral Home, Inc. which both she and her late husband Charles F. established in 1956. Josephine set an example for woman in the fune
 WONSEVER -- Eithne. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Eithne Wonsever and extends heartfelt sympathy to her husband David and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Marc Goldberg, President       
 Helen Gee, whose Limelight photography gallery in Greenwich Village in the 1950's became a pioneering blueprint for the offering and selling of photography as an art form, died on Sunday at a hospice in Manhattan. She was 85. Her death was announced by a friend, John Erdman. Spaciou
 Helen Gee, whose Limelight photography gallery in Greenwich Village in the 1950's became a pioneering blueprint for the offering and selling of photography as an art form, died on Sunday at a hospice in Manhattan. She was 85. Her death was announced by a friend, John Erdman. Spaciou
 BEREZUK--Marilyn M., 76 years old, died October 5, 2004 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Her loving husband of 56 years, Harry Berezuk, her daughter, Corinne M. Berezuk, and her sonin-law, Michael A. Stieber, survive her. A memorial mass to celebrate her life and her strength
 BERNSTEIN--Sylvia. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Sylvia Bernstein, beloved mother of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Hindy Bernstein, of the Hospita
 COHEN--Shirley (nee Schiller). Known to many as ''Miss Dixie''. Beloved mother, grandmother and great grandmother. Great friend to our patriarch, ''Willie''. Her wisdom, warmth, humor, generosity and zest for life will be missed by us and by all who knew her. Grandmother of Patrick's wife, 
 KATES--Jean A. Died peacefully in Boston on October 9, age 87. Adored mother of Barbara and mother-in-law of Marc, fantastic grandmother of Alex and Nat. We will miss her generosity of spirit and her compassion. Donations to Nursing Scholarship, Hebrew Rehabilitation Home for the Aged, 1200
 McCORMICK -- Shirley. On October 6, 2004 at age 75. Beloved daughter of the late Robert E. and Helen McCormick. Loving sister of Sanford E. McCormick and dear aunt of Peter McCormick, Carolyn McCormick and Leigh McCormick. Interment private. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madis
 NEUMANN--Suzanne. October 11th, 2004. Our incomparable, irrepressible Suzie drew her last breath today bidding farewell to her beloved Norbert, Michelle and Ron Finkelstein, Peter and Sabine Neumann, brother Frederic Buch and loving family and friends. Her unique spirit will live forever as
 PFAFF--Martha M. Age 86. On October 10, 2004. Of Waverly Heights, PA. Formerly of Summit, N.J. and Nantucket, MA. Survived by her husband Henry C. Pfaff Jr. Survived by her daughter Gretchen P. Riley. For information please call Stuard Funeral Home, Ardmore, PA. 610-649-0243.       
 SHAPIRO--Beatrice Schaeffer. On October 12, 2004, one month after her 100th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Frank Schaeffer and Harold Shapiro. Devoted mother of Sandor Schaeffer and the late David Schaeffer and motherin-law of Donna Geffner Schaeffer. Cherished grandmother of Ellen and 
 WILLIAMS -- Josephine A. ''Jo'' (nee Tymchak) 87 years, passed peacefully October 9, 2004 at her residence. She was the proud owner and cofounder of Williams Funeral Home, Inc. which both she and her late husband Charles F. established in 1956. Josephine set an example for woman in the fune
 WINTERS--Leona. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed founding member. We extend deepest sympathy to her children, Jeffrey, Andrea and Patricia, and the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Deborah Schif
 Lynn Manulis, a retailer of luxury fashion who dressed a generation of the world's most socially prominent women in classic style while attiring their daughters in the work of bold young designers whose reputations she helped make, died on Sunday in Lantana, Fla. She was 85. A resid
 BEREZUK--Marilyn M., 76 years old, died October 5, 2004 after a long and courageous battle with cancer. Her loving husband of 56 years, Harry Berezuk, her daughter, Corinne M. Berezuk, and her sonin-law, Michael A. Stieber, survive her. A memorial mass to celebrate her life and her strength
 BOMEISLER--Anne Kniffin, of NYC died Wednesday, October 13, in Greenwich, CT. Survived by her husband Douglass M. Bomeisler, sons Douglass T. Bomeisler, of Jensen Beach, FL, Stuart B. Bomeisler, of Cohasset, MA, sister Mary Huntington Snyder, of NYC, stepmother Barbara Lapp, of Cedarhurst, 
 KERNAN--Una Greene. On September 30, 2004 in Guilford, CT, age 94. Mrs. Kernan was born in Dublin, Ireland in 1909. Mrs. Kernan is survived by her husband, her son and daughter-in-law Sean and Karen, of Stony Creek, her daughter Brigid, of Baltimore, and her sister Elizabeth Ballagh of Dubl
 KORNGOLD--Gerda, 83, on October 13, 2004. Loving wife of the late Herman Korngold. Beloved mother of Peter (Arlene). Cherished grandmother to Rachel. Graveside service Friday 1PM, Sharon Gardens Cemetery, Valhalla, NY. KORNGOLD -- Gerda. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple
 LAST--Miriam. Died October 7, 2004 at the age of 82. She was very loved and will be missed by her family. Donations may be made in her name to the 92nd St Y, NYC.       
 PETERS--Grace (McIlvaine), of Quissett, MA, formerly of Englewood, NJ, October 11. Beloved wife of Frederick S. Peters. She also leaves six step-children. A Memorial Service will be held at 3:00 PM on Saturday, October 16, in St. Barnabas Memorial Church, Main Street, Falmouth, MA. Memorial
 ROSS--Joan A. A long time resident of Mount Vernon, NY, died on October 13, 2004, after a long battle with colon cancer. Joan was born in New York City on December 4, 1928, the daughter of William and Lena Flug. She earned a bachelors degree from Hunter College. She married Richard C. Ross 
 SHAPIRO--Beatrice Schaeffer. On October 12, 2004, one month after her 100th birthday. Beloved wife of the late Frank Schaeffer and Harold Shapiro. Devoted mother of Sandor Schaeffer and the late David Schaeffer and motherin-law of Donna Geffner Schaeffer. Cherished grandmother of Ellen and 
 SIEGEL--Mae. Of Boca Raton, Florida, passed away October 11, 2004. She is survived by son Jay (Joan) Siegel, daughter Irene S. Kessler, brother Irving Holtzman, sister Florence Ellman, six grandchildren and six greatgrandchildren. Services Gutterman Warheit 800-992-9262       
 WILLIAMS -- Josephine A. ''Jo'' (nee Tymchak) 87 years, passed peacefully October 9, 2004 at her residence. She was the proud owner and cofounder of Williams Funeral Home, Inc. which both she and her late husband Charles F. established in 1956. Josephine set an example for woman in the fune
 BOMEISLER--Anne Kniffin, of NYC died Wednesday, October 13, in Greenwich, CT. Survived by her husband Douglass M. Bomeisler, sons Douglass T. Bomeisler, of Jensen Beach, FL, Stuart B. Bomeisler, of Cohasset, MA, sister Mary Huntington Snyder, of NYC, stepmother Barbara Lapp, of Cedarhurst, 
 DASKAL--David. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of our member, Mrs. Lolly Daskal Katz. May her entire family be comforted among all those who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 GREENBERG -- Edwin Gil bert. The Board and staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged expresses its sorrow at the passing of Captain Edwin Gilbert Greenberg, US Navy ret., father of JASA Trustee Joyce I. Greenberg. We extend our condolences to Ms. Greenberg, her husband Steve
 KRAMER--Miriam Marcus. 87 years old, died October 13, 2004 from complications of lung cancer and emphysema. Beloved mother of Gale Goldman and her husband Sandy, Steven and his wife Marge, and Peter and his wife Seva. Adored grandmother of Hillary and Andrew Goldman, John Lewis, Barbara Mon
 MACKOUL--Margaret. Beloved wife of the late Edward S. Mackoul. Died on October 13, 2004 of natural causes. She is survived by two sons Robert and Brian, five grandchildren, two great-grandchildren and three siblings Ray Farkouh, Sally Takla, Victoria Farkouh and a large extended family. Fun
 NEUMANN -- Suzanne. The Board of Directors and the Resource Library Volunteers of Women At Risk extend our deepest sympathies to the family of Suzanne Neumann. Through her caring, insight and dedication to Women At Risk's mission, Suzanne provided invaluable support to countless people with
 POSNER--Hilda Rivera. Deceased October 11. Beloved wife of the late Benjamin Posner. Adored mother of Rachel Maurer and Norman Posner. Loving, wonderful grandmother of Edward and Robert Maurer and greatgrandmother of Amy and Malia Maurer. She will always be in our hearts and truly loved and
 ROSENSTEIN -- Gertrude (Moore). Beloved daughter of the late Dr. Harry and Bertha Rosenstein, died October 6, 2004 in New York City at age 77. A graduate of Barnard College, she was a devotee of theatre and opera who studied with Gian-Carlo Menotti in Italy and The Neighborhood Playhouse Sc
 ROSS--Joan A. A long time resident of Mount Vernon, NY, died on October 13, 2004, after a long battle with colon cancer. Joan was born in New York City on December 4, 1928, the daughter of William and Lena Flug. She earned a bachelors degree from Hunter College. She married Richard C. Ross 
 WEEKES--Daphne, a wellknown pianist and Caribbean personality, passed away quietly on October 8, 2004 at her residence on Park Place in Brooklyn. With her versatile Caribbean orchestra, she was instrumental in bringing together Trinidadians in NY, especially during the preLenten Carnival an
 WEINSTEIN--Sylvia, of Queens, NY, died on October 13, 2004, at the age of 83. Beloved wife of the late Morris Weinstein, devoted mother of Mark H. Weinstein of Ardsley, NY, and Jane H. Gelman of Bethesda, MD, and mother-in-law of Fran Weinstein and Bob Gelman. Cherished grandmother of Laure
 ABRAMS - LEVINE -- Blossom on October 14, 2004, after a long and courageous battle with ALS. Beloved wife of Leo Abrams and the late Al Levine, loving mother to Lesley (Ed), Randy (Amy), Jeffrey (Anne), sister of Barbara (Bernard), devoted grandmother to Ari, Adam, Ilyssa, Tori, Mark, Ethan
 BARNETT--Marion. Age 85. Died October 14th, surrounded by her family. Beloved mother of Emily and Steve, and grandmother of Amy, Elizabeth and Jessica. She strongly believed in a more just society and supported the Kerry/Edwards campaign. In lieu of flowers, please make make donations to th
 BOMEISLER--Anne Kniffin, of NYC died Wednesday, October 13, in Greenwich, CT. Survived by her husband Douglass M. Bomeisler, sons Douglass T. Bomeisler, of Jensen Beach, FL, Stuart B. Bomeisler, of Cohasset, MA, sister Mary Huntington Snyder, of NYC, stepmother Barbara Lapp, of Cedarhurst, 
 BRITTON--Edna, 94, on October 13. Beloved daughter of the late Alfred and Emily Britton of Bronxville, and sister of the late A. Dudley Britton, Jr. of Pleasantville, after a long illness at the Brandywine Nursing Home in Briarcliff Manor, NY. Miss Britton is survived by her nephew Peter Br
 HERCULES--Dellora. Died on Thursday, September 30 after a brief illness. She was an educator, a New York City public school Principal, devoted wife of Frank and mother of Eric. Beloved aunt of Raymond John and Armando Howard, grandmother of John and Abenaa Hayes. Memorial service will be he
 Phyllis Williams Lehmann, an archaeologist and art historian known for reuniting the hand of one of the icons of Western art, the Winged Victory of Samothrace, with two of its long-lost fingers, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Haydenville, Mass. She was 91. The cause was congestive 
 Bernice Rubens, a prolific British novelist who drew on her Jewish upbringing and ill-fated marriage to tell stories of vice and grimness with warmth and even humor, died on Oct. 13 in London, British newspapers reported. She was 76. Ms. Rubens won Britain's prestigious Booker Prize
 BOMEISLER--Anne Kniffin, of NYC died Wednesday, October 13, in Greenwich, CT. Survived by her husband Douglass M. Bomeisler, sons Douglass T. Bomeisler, of Jensen Beach, FL, Stuart B. Bomeisler, of Cohasset, MA, sister Mary Huntington Snyder, of NYC, stepmother Barbara Lapp, of Cedarhurst, 
 GELLERT--Beatrice Meisel, 96, on October 14th, 2004 after a long and full life. Beloved wife of Everett Gellert for 74 years, mother of Paul Gellert and the late Nan Silverman. She is survived by her husband, son, grandchildren, Melissa, Leon and David, and great - grandchildren, Dale and G
 JOHNSON--Hazel K. June 8, 1919-October 2, 2004. Pianist and organist, musicologist, teacher, improviser and (on occasion) composer of music to accompany modern dance. She had a lifelong interest in music of all kinds, with a specific passion for (and a specialized academic focus on) medieva
 LARKIN--Agnes A. (Lynch). Of Cedar Grove. Reposing Tuesday, 10 to 11 AM, at Shook's Cedar Grove Funeral Home, 486 Pompton Ave, Cedar Grove, NJ; 973-239-1489. She was a 58 year employee with Kenyon-Eckhardt Advertising, NYC.       
 NATHANSON--Margret (Maier). October 15, 2004. Beloved wife of Morton Nathanson, mother of David, Madlyn and Laura, grandmother of Majnun, Judah, Yusef, Sasha and Lina, and a lifelong naturalist and educator in the truest sense. We mourn her passing and celebrate her vibrant life. Memorial s
 OHRBACH--Jean, age 82. Beloved wife of the late Milton Ohrbach. She is survived by her grandson Daniel Viola Johnson. A graduate of Juilliard, she taught piano for many years, sharing her love of music with students both young and old. She is remembered with love and gratitude by her wide c
 ROSENSTEIN -- Gertrude (Moore). Beloved daughter of the late Dr. Harry and Bertha Rosenstein, died October 6, 2004 in New York City at age 77. A graduate of Barnard College, she was a devotee of theatre and opera who studied with Gian-Carlo Menotti in Italy and The Neighborhood Playhouse Sc
 ROSHENY--Christine Voigt. 83, passed peacefully away Tuesday October 12, 2004 at her residence in Racine, Wisconsin. She was born on August 21, 1921 in Manhattan, NY. Daughter of Emil and Mary Baziliak Rosheny. Christine graduated high school in 1938 and began her working career in the garm
 STRAUSS--Rosalyn B. Longtime resident of New Rochelle, passed away peacefully October 16, 2004, at her home in Rockland County, with her family at her side. Roz was predeceased by her beloved husband Bernard I., son Jerrold Scott, and brother Harvey R. Beck. She is survived by her daughter 
 PORCHENICK--Abraham. 96, of Mount Vernon, NY, on October 16, 2004. Devoted husband of the late Ella Atlas Porchenick. Beloved father of the late Dede Porchenick Savelson and her husband Robert Savelson. Loving grandfather of Kenny, Kim, Eric, Daniel, Gary and Brian. Great-grandfather of Isa
 Jane Meyerhoff, a philanthropist and collector who was a major donor of modern art, most of it American, died on Saturday in Baltimore. She was 80. The cause was complications of heart surgery, said her daughter, Rose Ellen Meyerhoff Greene. For nearly 50 years, Mrs. Meyerho
 CUTLER--Dorothy G., born January 15, 1920, passed away October 17, 2004. Widow of Seymour S. Cutler, M.D. Survived by her children, Margaret Cutler Sanford, William A. Cutler & Helen Cutler Michel and her grandchildren, Melissa Sanford, Sophie Michel & Sebastian Michel. Memorial Service at 
 HENIGSBERG -- Jeanne. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. May her memory be for blessing. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, Pres.       
 HORNADY--Caroline Stewart, formerly of Owings Mills, MD, died in Redding, CT, on October 16, 2004. She is survived by her husband John R. Hornady III, children, Katherine H. Magee of Fairfield, CT, John R. ''Jack'' Hornady IV, of Silver Spring, MD and Mary H. Spilsbury of San Raphael, CA, s
 KOLODNY -- Virginia. Died October 17, 2004. Beloved wife of Peter and mother of Leigh, Gabriel and Alison. Loving grandmother of Isabella and Benjamin. Also survived by her father Mieczyslaw Wasilewski, mother Ruth Wasilewski and son-inlaw, Kevin Wormke. She was an attorney who practiced in
 LAST--Miriam. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to her family. May her memory be for blessing, and may her family be comforted amidst the mourners of our people in Zion and Jerusalem. Rabbi Jonathan A. St
 LOPEZ--Dorothy C. Died October 1, 2004, after a brief illness. She was a dedicated and well-respected advocate for children with special needs in the City of New York; first as a classroom teacher, then in a succession of administrative roles for the NYC Board of Education. Lopez taught fut
 MEYERHOFF--Jane B. On October 16, 2004. Beloved wife of Robert E.; loving mother of Rose Ellen Greene, Neil and John Meyerhoff; loving sister of Joan B. Katz and six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Funeral services are private. Memorial service to be announced. In lieu of flower
 OHRBACH--Jean, age 82. Beloved wife of the late Milton Ohrbach. She is survived by her grandson Daniel Viola Johnson. A graduate of Juilliard, she taught piano for many years, sharing her love of music with students both young and old. She is remembered with love and gratitude by her wide c
 RUDICK--Patricia L. Survived by guardian angel cousin Paul, children Jennifer and Jonathan Goodman, Lyris and Charles Mansoor, Daniel Rudick, sister Ellen Linsky, grandchildren Jake, Evan, Ethan, Noah, Anna and husband Sam. A legend in her own time, she always gave spiritually, emotionally 
 CUTLER--Dorothy G., born January 15, 1920, passed away October 17, 2004. Widow of Seymour S. Cutler, M.D. Survived by her children, Margaret Cutler Sanford, William A. Cutler & Helen Cutler Michel and her grandchildren, Melissa Sanford, Sophie Michel & Sebastian Michel. Memorial Service at 
 HORNADY--Caroline Stewart, formerly of Owings Mills, MD, died in Redding, CT, on October 16, 2004. She is survived by her husband John R. Hornady III, children, Katherine H. Magee of Fairfield, CT, John R. ''Jack'' Hornady IV, of Silver Spring, MD and Mary H. Spilsbury of San Raphael, CA, s
 KAPLAN--Esther Scheinzeit, 109, beloved mother of Sarajean Sherk and the late Dr. David Kaplan. Mourned by her family and the communities whose lives she graced with selfless devotion and deep abiding faith. KAPLAN--Esther. Farewell my dearest cousin Esther whom God kept you with us
 MEYERHOFF--Jane B. On October 16, 2004. Beloved wife of Robert E.; loving mother of Rose Ellen Greene, Neil and John Meyerhoff; loving sister of Joan B. Katz and six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Funeral services are private. Memorial service to be announced. In lieu of flower
 RUDICK--Patricia L. Survived by guardian angel cousin Paul, children Jennifer and Jonathan Goodman, Lyris and Charles Mansoor, Daniel Rudick, sister Ellen Linsky, grandchildren Jake, Evan, Ethan, Noah, Anna and husband Sam. A legend in her own time, she always gave spiritually, emotionally 
 CUTLER--Dorothy G., born January 15, 1920, passed away October 17, 2004. Widow of Seymour S. Cutler, M.D. Survived by her children, Margaret Cutler Sanford, William A. Cutler & Helen Cutler Michel and her grandchildren, Melissa Sanford, Sophie Michel & Sebastian Michel. Memorial Service at 
 ENGELBERG--Lena. On October 19, 2004. Born in Poland, a Holocaust survivor. Predeceased by her loving and devoted husband, Lazar, in 1999. Survived by her nephew A. Al Jajeh of Massachusetts. She will be dearly missed by her friends and family. Graveside service 11:15 today, Mount Ararat Ce
 GEWANT -- Carole, 68 of Aventura, FL passed away Tuesday. She is survived by her beloved husband Frank ''Chuck'' Momsen, loving brother, Dr. Warren Gewant (Toby) of Alabama, loving nephew Scott Gewant (Hillary), loving niece Beth Gewant and many loving cousins and friends. Graveside service
 LACHER--Phyllis, 84, of New York City, passed away on October 19, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Emanuel Lacher, devoted mother of Elyse and Bruce, loving grandmother of Pamela and Steven. From its founding in 1967, Mrs. Lacher was an intrinsic part of Cy Mann International, a major furnitu
 MAJOR--Andrew. The Board, the Membership and the Staff of the Raoul Wallenberg Committee of the United States grieves with our treasured Board Member Flora at the passing of her dear husband, Andrew Major.       
 McLAUGHLIN -- Anne E. (Curran). Died October 19. Our beloved. Dear Nana, we will miss you forever. Beloved wife of Jack, adoring mother of Suzie and grandmother of Jamie, loving mother-in-law of Ainar Aijala and devoted surrogate mother to Vivian Darling, and beloved sister to Joseph Curran
 MEYERHOFF--Jane B. On October 16, 2004. Beloved wife of Robert E.; loving mother of Rose Ellen Greene, Neil and John Meyerhoff; loving sister of Joan B. Katz and six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Funeral services are private. Memorial service to be announced. In lieu of flower
 PITCHERSKY -- Carol. The American Civil Liberties Union, its officers, Board of Directors and staff deeply mourn the passing of a dear colleague and friend, Carol Pitchersky. Serving as the ACLU Foundation's Development Director and Associate Director from 1979 to 1988, Carol was an excepti
 RUDICK -- Patricia. The friends of P.S. 169 mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague. Her devotion to the cause of literacy and learning, together with her kindness and compassion for our children, inspired us. She will be remembered always when we read with the children she loved so
 STEIN--Jean. Died October 20, 2004. Beloved wife of 65 years of Jacob. Devoted mother of Richard, Stuart and Linda. Loving mother-in-law of Roselle, Pepi and Jack. Cherished grandmother of Kenneth, Beth (Chris), Heather (Mitchell), Marissa, Deborah (Keith) and Sara (Jon) and great - grandmo
 WELS -- Marguerite Samet, 84, died peacefully at home in San Francisco on October 17, 2004. She lived most of her life in New York City, where she had a thriving career as an award-winning interior designer for 50 years. She was a former vice president of the New York Chapter of ASID, serve
 FRIEDMAN--Maxine. Wife of the late Sylvan. Devoted mother of Ellen Anthonisen and the late Terry Klein. Sonin-law George R. Anthonisen. Grandmother of Laurie, Geoff, Leigh, Dirk, Rachel and Daniel and great-grandmother of Marshall, Kim, Ian. Friend and teacher who will be remembered by all 
 JASSEN--Mollie. On Thursday, October 21, 2004, at St. Peter's Hospital, Albany. Born in Brooklyn the daughter of the late Adolph and Anna Altman Rausch. Graduate of Jamaica Teachers College and taught at Elementary School PS 181 for many years. She was the wife of the late Bernard Jassen an
 KAUFMAN--Loretta. Born in Berlin, Germany, in 1921, died suddenly on October 20, 2004. She immigrated to the United States and settled in NYC with her mother, Marga Samoje in 1938. She is survived by her son and daughter-inlaw, Seth and Patricia of Manhattan, and her two beloved grandsons, 
 KEATES--Martha B. Died peacefully on Tuesday, October 19, 2004 in Ventnor, NJ after a brief illness. Mrs. Keates is survived by her husband H. Paxson Keates, her daughter Dr. Jennifer Ann Keates Baleeiro and her husband Dr. Carlos Baleeiro of Tennessee, a son Charles Paxson Keates, Esq. of 
 McLAUGHLIN -- Anne E. (Curran). Died October 19. Our beloved. Dear Nana, we will miss you forever. Beloved wife of Jack, adoring mother of Suzie and grandmother of Jamie, loving mother-in-law of Ainar Aijala and devoted surrogate mother to Vivian Darling, and beloved sister to Joseph Curran
 RUDICK--Patricia. Our heartfelt sympathy to the Rudick family. Her loving, caring, and kindness will be deeply missed. Her memory will stay with us forever. The Ergas Family       
 ZAKIN--Rita (Weinstein). Beloved wife, mother, grandmother and sister. Devoted to her family. Survived by her husband, Noel; children, Alan and Barbara, Charles and Rebecca; three grandchildren; and a sister, Belle Eichler. Services Friday 10AM, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, West 91st Stre
 Betty Hill, whose assertion that she was carried off by otherworldly beings in 1961 inspired a national obsession with alien abduction that remains a staple of American popular culture, died on Sunday at her home in Portsmouth, N.H. She was 85. The cause was lung cancer, her niece K
 Carol H. Pitchersky, a former associate director of the American Civil Liberties Union who helped it overcome a potentially bankrupting deficit, died on Tuesday at her home in Washington. She was 57. The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Morton H. Halperin, said. Ms. Pit
 SINGER--Shirley on October 20th, 2004. She will be deeply missed by her family and friends. We love you Mamala.       
 SONNENMARK--Thea A. On Thursday, October 21, 2004, of Silver Spring, MD, formerly of Queens, NY. Beloved wife of Kurt Sonnenmark. Devoted mother of Edie (David) Blitzstein and Les (Laura) Sonnenmark. Cherished grandmother of Jesse, Gina and Danny. Her wide circle of friends will miss her co
 WEINTRAUB -- Doris. We mourn the loss of Doris Weintraub, adored wife of Jack, devoted mother of Judy Hodson and Rabbi Peter and Ellen Weintraub, cherished grandmother of Daniel and Michael Fadel, Rachel and Bertie Bregman, Tara and and Justin Brass, David and Sara Weintraub, Joseph and Ben
 ZEILER--Miriam (Micky), on October 21, 2004, at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Norman Zeiler. Loving mother of Nancy Coplon and John Zeiler. Adored grandmother of Benjamin Zeiler Coplon and Jonathan David Coplon. Dear aunt of Eve France and Joan Minchen. Funeral services at Frank E. Campb
 GALE--Jean (nee Edelmuth), died October 17, age 97. Beloved wife of the late William Gale, dear mother of Judith Bloom Shaw and Robert, Eleanor Bloom Surkis and Michael, Rose-Lynn Gale Sokol and Daniel. Loving grandmother of David, Andrew, William, John, Charles, Sarah, and Lizzy. Devoted s
 HARTSTONE--Marcia R. Age 82, died unexpectedly September 29, 2004, at her home on Bainbridge Island, WA. Marcia was born in Boston, MA, on January 12, 1922, to Joseph and Gertrude (Burnce) Rosen. In 1941, she married Leon C. Hartstone, and in 1950, they moved with their three children to Va
 MALLIA--Josephine Norma. On October 21, 2004, at age 90. Beloved daughter of the late Paul and Sylvia Mallia. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81 Street, Sunday and Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 pm. Funeral Mass at Epiphany Church, 2nd Avenue at 22 Street, Tuesday, 11 am
 MORLEE--Lillian Feldman Kahn. Philanthropist, passed away October 18, 2004. Her smile illuminated life.       
 PATSURIS--Mary B., on October 19th. She was 74. Beloved daughter of the late John and Katina Bardasis. Dear cousin of relatives in Greece. Mary had a love for Native American Art. Her greatest accomplishment was educating children for many years in the NYC school system. Reposing Riverdale 
 SIEGEL -- Florence Jacobs. On Friday, October 22, 2004. She was 94 years old. Devoted wife of Meyer for 49 years. Loving mother of Lloyd and Herbert and daughters-inlaw, Roslyn and Martha. Cherished grandmother of Randolph, Janine, Noah and Miranda. Proud great-grandmother of Hallie, Willa,
 SINGER--Shirley on October 20th, 2004. She will be deeply missed by her family and friends. We love you Mamala.       
 WEINTRAUB -- Doris. We mourn the loss of Doris Weintraub, adored wife of Jack, devoted mother of Judy Hodson and Rabbi Peter and Ellen Weintraub, cherished grandmother of Daniel and Michael Fadel, Rachel and Bertie Bregman, Tara and and Justin Brass, David and Sara Weintraub, Joseph and Ben
 WOLFERT -- Elinor Jones. The first African-American woman to own and operate a pharmacy in New York and co-founder of the Unity Democratic Club, which began the Democratic Reform Movement in Brooklyn in the 1950's, died of natural causes in the Harbor View Nursing Home, Harbor City, NJ, on 
 ZEILER--Miriam (Micky), on October 21, 2004, at age 91. Beloved wife of the late Norman Zeiler. Loving mother of Nancy Coplon and John Zeiler. Adored grandmother of Benjamin Zeiler Coplon and Jonathan David Coplon. Dear aunt of Eve France and Joan Minchen. Funeral services at Frank E. Campb
 ELKAN--Hazel. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our devoted and cherished member, Hazel Elkan. May the beautiful memory of her life endure as a legacy in the hearts of those who loved her. Rabbi David M. Posner Robert A. Bernhard, Pres. Herb
 HIRSCH--Jeannette. On October 24, 2004. A beautiful person, famed psychoanalyst. Devoted and loving aunt of Richard Sachs, Sylvia Rosenberg and many great and great-great-nieces and nephews. She will always be lovingly remembered.       
 MALLIA--Josephine Norma. On October 21, 2004, at age 90. Beloved daughter of the late Paul and Sylvia Mallia. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81 Street, Sunday and Monday, 2-5 and 7-9 pm. Funeral Mass at Epiphany Church, 2nd Avenue at 22 Street, Tuesday, 11 am
 SIEGEL -- Florence Jacobs. On Friday, October 22, 2004. She was 94 years old. Devoted wife of Meyer for 49 years. Loving mother of Lloyd and Herbert and daughters-inlaw, Roslyn and Martha. Cherished grandmother of Randolph, Janine, Noah and Miranda. Proud great-grandmother of Hallie, Willa,
 BELLET--Marilyn. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of their dear and stalwart friend and benefactor, Marilyn Bellet of Hilton Head Island, SC. Formerly of Philadelphia, Mrs. Bellet, a devoted member of the Society's National Board of Directo
 KALLIR-FRANK--Lilian. October 25, 2004. Beloved wife of Claude. Loving mother of Pamela and her husband Andy. Devoted aunt of Anne, Leslie and Kenneth. A beautiful pianist, teacher and wonderful friend who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Funeral private. Memorial concer
 KALLIR--Lilian. All of us at ICM Artists mourn the loss of pianist Lilian Kallir, a great artist and a remarkable human being. Our hearts go out to her beloved husband, Claude Frank and her daughter, Pamela Frank. Claude and Pam tended to her so lovingly as she fought valiantly during her l
 KIRSHNER -- Joseph. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of Jennie Rothner. May her entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 KLEIN -- Margaret Fleis chman. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member Margaret Fleischman Klein. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, President       
 KRIENDLER--Florence Feller. On Sunday, October 24, 2004, after a long illness. Beloved widow of the late I. Robert Kriendler, adored mother of Karen Kriendler Nelson, Jeffrey Feller Kriendler and Jack Kriendler and Jack's wife Wendy. Cherished grandmother of Mark and Chris Nelson, Jenny, Da
 LAZARUS -- Sally. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our temple member, Sally Lazarus. We extend heartfelt sympathy to her bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 WOLFERT -- Eleanor. Our condolences to the family of a dear colleague, Eleanor Wolfert, who generously gave of herself to make life better for those whose lives she touched. The City of New York, the Brooklyn community in particular, has lost a dedicated and tireless champion for justice. S
 Lilian Kallir, a pianist known for her elegant Mozart performances, both as a soloist and in duet recitals with her husband, the pianist Claude Frank, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. Her daughter, the violinist Pamela Frank, said the cause was ovarian cancer.   
 DiCOSTANZO--Joan, 61, resident of Bronxville, NY, died of cancer Monday, October 25, 2004. Beloved daughter of William (deceased) and Kathryn Paolillo; wife of Nicholas Michael DiCostanzo; mother of Darcey Ann and Nicholas William DiCostanzo; and sister of Kathryn Watts, William Paolillo, a
 HAHN--Lynn (nee Lennon). A 1959 graduate of Long Island College Hospital School of Nursing, she continued until her passing as a RN, CEN and Nurse Management ''ER'' at Long Island College Hospital since graduation. Devoted wife of the late Jerry. Beloved mother of Scott, Patti Pillinger, Ha
 KALLIR-FRANK--Lilian. October 25, 2004. Beloved wife of Claude. Loving mother of Pamela and her husband Andy. Devoted aunt of Anne, Leslie and Kenneth. A beautiful pianist, teacher and wonderful friend who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Funeral private. Memorial concer
 KRIENDLER--Florence Feller. On Sunday, October 24, 2004, after a long illness. Beloved widow of the late I. Robert Kriendler, adored mother of Karen Kriendler Nelson, Jeffrey Feller Kriendler and Jack Kriendler and Jack's wife Wendy. Cherished grandmother of Mark and Chris Nelson, Jenny, Da
 PRICHARD--Elizabeth R., 89. Director of Social Services Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, 1955-1980. Survived by her niece, Elizabeth R. Wagner, nephew, William P. Wagner. PRICHARD--Elizabeth. Treasured mentor, boss par excellence, dear friend. How I will miss your spirited wisdom abo
 BUCHHOLZ--Ester Schaler, Ph.D. On October 26, 2004. A mighty woman of valor. Wife of Leonard Wolf. Mother of Gary, David and Phillip, mother - in - law of Linda, Jeanne and John, stepmother of Melissa and Megan, grandmother of Benjamin, Jacob, Noah, Nathan and Shaina. Funeral private. Memor
 HELMAN--Minnie, age 94, on October 27. Beloved wife of the late Hon. Nathaniel T. Helman. Mother of Howard and Stephen. Grandmother of Corinne, Deborah and Maielle. Great-grandmother of Cary. Her life was filled with good deeds for community and family. She was loved deeply. Services Friday
 KALLIR--Lilian. The House of Steinway & Sons deeply mourns the passing of the eminent American pianist, Lilian Kallir, on October 25, 2004 at the age of 73. Lilian Kallir was a treasured member of our Steinway Artist family for nearly 50 years. An inspired soloist, eloquent chamber musician
 KANDELL--Florence. October 26 at age 98. Wife of the late Leonard S. Kandell. She served as Director of Admissions and Placement at Bank Street College, where she was a devoted disciple of Lucy Sprague Mitchell, Barbara Biber and Charlotte Winsor. She was a longtime member of the Governing 
 KANTIN--Dorothy Oland. Of Memphis, TN and formerly of Cedarhurst, NY after a short illness on October 26, 2004. Retired President of Lambert Frame of Hughes, AR, a company founded by her father, Joseph Lambert and where she worked, until her death, for over 60 years. Beloved wife of the lat
 LEVY--Hinda Squires of Port Washington, New York died on October 26, 2004. Beloved wife of Gary Levy, mother of Peter and Amanda Squires and stepmother of Matthew Levy, daughter of Miriam and the late Arnold Frankel, sister of Janet (Shalom) Staub, and Alan (Jodi) Frankel. A longtime member
 NEMESSANYI--Marta, 65, on October 20, of cancer. Longtime resident of Pound Ridge, NY. Realtor and loving mother to Madelene and Tereza. Beloved grandmother to Margot Hulme. Mother-inlaw to Richard Hulme and sister to Milan Kunc. Her spirit and vivaciousness will be sorely missed. Donations
 NYE-DORRY--Gertrude, 96, of Tehran, Iran, Professor of Linguistics, Author & Peace Corps Educator, died Monday, October 25, 2004 at Forestview Nursing & Reh abilitation Center, Wareham, MA. Wife of the late Mohammad B. Dorry, mother of Dr. Susan Dorry-Nyman & her husband Robert, grandmother
 SIMMONS--Mary Bleecker. Columbia University School of Nursing and its alumni mourn the death of our distinguished colleague, Mary Simmons. Her passionate belief in her profession and her school infused her many years of service as Chair of the School's Annual Fund. We remember her grace, ki
 STRAUB--Joan M. died October 21, 2004 in Los Angeles. Native of New York City. Graduate of Columbia University. Joan was an Artist, Professor of Sociology, market research expert, and owned a consulting firm with her brother, John. Interment St. Raymond Cemetery, the Bronx, Thursday.       
 BRYAN -- Denise Frances Farquharson. Died gently, October 3, 2004, at home. An inimitable woman of great good will, optimism and wry wit. Born in London in 1912. In 30s, worked in London for The Times. During the war, was Executive Director of the Norfolk War Charities, and met husband-to-b
 DINTENFASS--Theresa K., October 26, age 84. Donations to The Studio Museum in Harlem, Youth Programs, 144 West 125 Street, NYC 10027. DINTENFASS--Theresa. We will all miss her. Love, the Forer Family       
 FARRINGTON--Carol Cain, resident of Naples, FL and Marion, MA, died October 28, 2004. She received Master degrees with honors in Journalism and English Literature from Columbia University. She reviewed literature for various newspapers including the NY Times, Boston Globe and the Miami Hera
 HELMAN--Minnie, age 94, on October 27. Beloved wife of the late Hon. Nathaniel T. Helman. Mother of Howard and Stephen. Grandmother of Corinne, Deborah and Maielle. Great-grandmother of Cary. Her life was filled with good deeds for community and family. She was loved deeply. Services Friday
 KALLIR--Lilian. The House of Steinway & Sons deeply mourns the passing of the eminent American pianist, Lilian Kallir, on October 25, 2004 at the age of 73. Lilian Kallir was a treasured member of our Steinway Artist family for nearly 50 years. An inspired soloist, eloquent chamber musician
 KERR--Louise H., Formerly of Shelter Island and Peconic Landing, Greenport, L.I. on September 29, 2004 in her 85th year. Former Vice-President, Citibank, New York City. Former Director, Cleveland H. Dodge Foundation and former member and trustee Charlotte Palmer Phillips Foundation, both in
 LANDSMAN--Shirley R., 85, on October 5. Of Long Beach NY. With deep sorrow and great love we mourn the loss of the beloved wife of the late Irving, wonderful mother of Richard, Linda and Jules, loving grandmom of Kira, Nerys, Lena and Benjamin. Daughter of the late Tony and Lena Siegel of N
 LEVY--Hinda Squires of Port Washington, New York died on October 26, 2004. Beloved wife of Gary Levy, mother of Peter and Amanda Squires and stepmother of Matthew Levy, daughter of Miriam and the late Arnold Frankel, sister of Janet (Shalom) Staub, and Alan (Jodi) Frankel. A longtime member
 NYE-DORRY--Gertrude, 96, of Tehran, Iran, Professor of Linguistics, Author & Peace Corps Educator, died Monday, October 25, 2004 at Forestview Nursing & Reh abilitation Center, Wareham, MA. Wife of the late Mohammad B. Dorry, mother of Dr. Susan Dorry-Nyman & her husband Robert, grandmother
 ROBERTSON--Sarah Wells. Mommy and best friend, she loved: antiques, art, books, Bruce, cats, chocolate, Darling Darcy, France, horses, HHS, Lutece, Mte. Gerard, McCartney, Shubert, New York City, 8A, roses, travel, fine wine and her friends. Memorial service Saturday, 10AM at Saint Thomas C
 Terry Dintenfass, a longtime New York art dealer whose gallery brought together several currents from outside the mainstream of 20th-century art, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84. Her death was reported by her son Andrew Dintenfass. For nearly 40 years th
 ARCHER -- Catherine Ann. Age 91, died October 27, 2004 in Woodbridge, Va. She was preceded in death by her brother Henry J. Archer, Jr. She is survived by her sister Margaret ''Babs'' Pierce of Newnan, Ga; her sister-in-law Edith Archer of Decatur, Ga., five nieces, Peggy Ferguson of Manass
 AUSKERN--Leona M. Age 92 on October 28, 2004 in Fairfield, CT. Beloved widow of Theodore I., survived by her daughter Harriette Terbell and her husband Joseph, and her grandson, Jonathan Terbell all of Westport, CT. Graveside services Sunday Oct 31st at 10:30 AM at Cedar Park Cemetery Param
 BUCHHOLZ -- Ester. The Trustees, faculty, and students of the Institute for Child, Adolescent & Family Studies mourn the inconsolable loss of our respected colleague, brilliant teacher, and dear friend, Ester Buchholz, Ph.D. Dr. Buchholz was a founding member of our institute, and her suppo
 BACHMANN--Lawrence P., formerly of Oxfordshire, England, died September 7, 2004, age 92, in Los Angeles. Studio executive, author, Lt. Col. USAAF WW II, founder Beverly Hills Tennis Club, member Garrick Club and All England Lawn Tennis Club, Distinguished Friend of Oxford. Wife Betty Hart B
 BUCHHOLZ--Ester Schaler. On October 26, age 71. The Steinhardt School of Education at New York University deeply mourns the loss of our colleague of nearly 30 years, Ester Schaler Buchholz. A psychoanalyst, clinical psychologist, celebrated author, and gifted scholar, Ester explored the nee
 DINTENFASS--Theresa. We will all miss her. Love, the Forer Family       
 HEIMBINDER--Evelyn, 90, on October 22, 2004. She was one of six children of Max and Fannie Brown. Predeceased by husband David. Survived by children Fani Weissman and Isaac Heimbinder, six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. She lived and loved well. Donations to the Max and Fannie 
 KALLIR-FRANK--Lilian. October 25, 2004. Beloved wife of Claude. Loving mother of Pamela and her husband Andy. Devoted aunt of Anne, Leslie and Kenneth. A beautiful pianist, teacher and wonderful friend who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Funeral private. Memorial concer
 KANTIN--Dorothy Oland. Of Memphis, TN and formerly of Cedarhurst, NY after a short illness on October 26, 2004. Retired President of Lambert Frame of Hughes, AR, a company founded by her father, Joseph Lambert and where she worked, until her death, for over 60 years. Beloved wife of the lat
 NEMESSANYI--Marta, 65, on October 20, of cancer. Longtime resident of Pound Ridge, NY. Realtor and loving mother to Madelene and Tereza. Beloved grandmother to Margot Hulme. Mother-inlaw to Richard Hulme and sister to Milan Kunc. Her spirit and vivaciousness will be sorely missed. Donations
 SHRIVER--Joyce E., Ph.D. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and friend. A thoughtful, empathetic dean and teacher who truly understood the struggles of the young physicians she taught and advised. Joyce was a woman of extraordinary integrity
 WORTMAN--Julia. Died aged 101 on September 26, surrounded by loving friends. An extraordinary musician trained in Vienna, she taught voice at Third Street Music School and privately. A memorial service will be held at Third Street Music School, 235 East 11 Street, NYC, Tuesday, November 9 a
 Sister Nancy Salisbury, longtime headmistress of New York's oldest independent school for girls, the Convent of the Sacred Heart, died on Sept. 27 in Atherton, Calif. She was 74. The cause was respiratory failure after a kidney infection, according to an announcement by the United S
